10 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFIVE BENEFITS OF AIR FRYING
Still wondering if you made the right decision when you purchased an air 
fryer? Wonder no more.
Air frying is better for your health.  In fact, most recipes cook without any 
added fat. The recipes that do use oil use only a very small amount for flavor, 
usually just a few teaspoons. If there is too much oil on the food, it will melt 
off, and the appliance may emit smoke.
It’s very safe, even for beginning cooks.  The system is completely closed, 
unlike deep-frying in a pan on the stovetop. There’s no danger of a pan 
full of hot oil falling off the stove. Because the machine is closed while it’s 
cooking, you won’t burn your fingers or be splattered with hot liquid as the 
food cooks.
Most air fryers have automatic cooking functions, so there’s no guess -
work.  Depending on the model you choose, you can cook French fries, 
chicken fingers, tater tots, and other foods with just a press of a button. 
The machine controls the cooking times and cooking temperatures of 
these foods for you.
Cleanup is a breeze.  Air fryers are made with nonstick material, so, to 
clean, you simply wash the basket and pan in the sink with soap and water, 
using a sponge that won’t scratch. If any food is burned onto the basket, a 
quick soak will loosen it. The appliance itself can be cleaned with a damp 
paper towel or sponge. You don’t have to worry about safely disposing 
of cups of oil.
Using only one appliance to prepare your food is extremely convenient.  
The cooking method is hands-free, so you can prepare a salad while your 
food cooks. If you have a small kitchen, this may be the only appliance 
you need.11 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHSTEP-BY-STEP AIR FRYING
An air fryer is basically a miniature convection oven: A fan blows heated air 
over food to cook it quickly. Here are the keys to using it well.
1. If your air fryer is new, clean it.  Remove the basket and pan along with 
any accessories, and wash them with soap and water. Use a damp paper 
towel to clean the outside and inside of the air fryer. Dry off all of the com -
ponents, and familiarize yourself with the instructions.
2. Prepare your food.  Cut food into similar-size pieces so they cook evenly. 
If you want to marinate food, plan ahead. (Most foods only need to marinate 
for a few minutes, but for really deep flavor, you may want to marinate over -
night in the refrigerator.) Then, pat the pieces dry. Any excess liquid on foods 
will drip into the pan and may cause the appliance to smoke.
3. If needed, preheat.  Some air fryer models require preheating; others do 
not. Read the instruction manual for your appliance.
4. If you are going to coat food with crumbs,  make sure that the coating 
is patted firmly onto the food. Spray other foods lightly with cooking spray 
or oil from a mister. Then, put the food into the basket or baking pan.
5. If you are going to use a pan,  use the size recommended by the instruc -
tion manual. Most air fryers use a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, and the recipes in 
this book were developed for that size. Spray the pan with nonstick cooking 
spray, or line it with parchment paper liners that come with tabs to easily 
remove food. You can also use a 6-inch metal bowl as long it fits easily in 
the basket with room to spare on the top. The metal will be very hot, so to 
remove the pan or bowl, use spring-loaded tongs.12 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOK6. Place the basket into the air fryer and set the time.  Don’t overcrowd 
food in the basket. If you’re cooking small items, such as tater tots or 
chopped vegetables, shake the food halfway through the cooking time. 
Remove the basket with the pan attached, and shake gently to redistribute 
the food. Some recipes ask you to turn food. Never  use your fingers; use 
tongs or a large fork for this step.
7. When the food is done, remove the basket,  with the pan in it, if used, 
and take the food out with tongs. Never tip the basket with the pan attached 
into a dish; any liquids or grease in the pan will spill onto the food and may 
burn your fingers.
The Maillard Reaction
This phrase is the name for the chemical reaction between an amino acid and 
a sugar that occurs on the surface of foods when cooked at high heat. The 
technical term is “nonenzymatic browning,” which just means the reaction 
occurs without enzymes. (When apples and avocados are cut, this is caused by 
 enzymatic browning.) The Maillard reaction gives food its characteristic brown 
color and produces the hundreds of ﬂavor and aroma compounds that make 
fried foods taste and smell so good. Heat increases the rate of this reaction.
 In order for foods to brown in the Maillard reaction, they need protein, 
sugar, heat, and surface dryness. Moist or wet foods will not brown well, which 
is another reason it’s important to dry foods before they are cooked in an 
air fryer. Adding a tiny bit of sugar or a pinch of baking soda to foods can 
increase browning.13 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHAIR FRYER COOKING CHART
Your air fryer may have its own cooking times and temperatures; always 
follow the instructions that came with your appliance. And always cook 
foods, especially meats, poultry, and seafood, until done to a safe internal 
temperature. But you can use this general chart for reference.
VEGETABLES
French fries  
(thin, frozen)2 to 4 cups 390°F 10 to 14 minutes
If you ﬁnd ice on the fries, remove it; toss once during cooking.
French fries  
(thin, fresh)2 to 4 cups 400°F 15 to 20 minutes
Pat dry; toss with cornstarch and ½ teaspoon sugar for better browning, then mist 
with oil; toss once during cooking.
French fries  
(thick, frozen)2 to 4 cups 380°F 12 to 20 minutes
If you ﬁnd ice on the fries, remove it.
French fries  
(thick, fresh)2 to 4 cups 400°F 15 to 25 minutes
Lightly spray with oil.
Potato  
wedges2 to 4 cups 390°F 18 to 22 minutes
Lightly spray with oil; sprinkle with salt and pepper.14 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKChips 3 to 7 cups 400°F 7 to 12 minutes
Toss once or twice during cooking.
Chopped  
potatoes4 to 7 cups 400°F 13 to 19 minutes
Spray with oil; toss once or twice during cooking.
Potato  
slices4 to 5 cups 380°F 10 to 15 minutes
Slice about ⅛" thick; spray with oil; toss during cooking. 
Cauliﬂower  
ﬂorets2 to 4 cups 390°F 5 to 9 minutes
Mist with oil and season before frying; toss once during cooking.
Other 
Vegetables1 to 3 pounds 350°FSliced eggplant:  
15 to 20 minutes
Zucchini:  
10 minutes
Onions:  
4 to 7 minutes
Tomatoes:  
Whole for 8 minutes, 
Slices for 4 minutes
Green beans:  
Whole for 5 to 
7 minutes
Cook vegetables individually. • Sliced onions work better than chopped. • Cut to 
similar sizes. • Toss once during cooking.15 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHPOULTRY AND MEAT
Chicken 
nuggets1 to 4 cups 370°F 7 to 12 minutes
If you ﬁnd ice on the chicken, remove it.
Chicken  
wings 1 to 3 pounds 380°F 15 to 20 minutes
Cook to an internal temperature of 165°F; toss once during cooking.
Chicken 
drumsticks1 to 6 
drumsticks400°F and 
320°F8 minutes at 400°F, 
then 10 to 12 minutes 
at 320°F
Pat dry; do not rinse. Spray with oil and sprinkle with seasonings.
Chicken  
breast1 to 6 6-ounce 
boneless, 
skinless halves360°F 10 to 16 minutes
Place in a single layer in the basket; turn once during cooking.
Pork chops1 to 4  
1" thick chops350°F 7 to 10 minutes
Cook to a minimum internal temperature of 145°F. Place in a single layer; turn once 
during cooking (optional).
Burgers1 to 4  
4-ounce patties360°F 6 to 9 minutes
Place in single layer; turn once during cooking. Cook to a minimum internal 
temperature of 160°F.
Frozen  
meatballs25 per batch 380°F 6 to 8 minutes
If you ﬁnd ice on the meatballs, remove it.16 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKRaw  
meatballs25 per batch 390°F 6 to 9 minutes
Don’t crowd; place in a single layer in the basket; turn with tongs halfway through 
cooking time.
Steak1 to 4  
6-ounce steaks, 
¾ inch thick360°F 8 to 12 minutes
Time depends on desired doneness; use a food thermometer to cook to 140°F for 
medium rare; 160°F for well done.
FISH
Fish sticks  
(frozen)1 to 3 cups 390°F 8 to 10 minutes
If you ﬁnd ice on the ﬁsh, remove it.
Shrimp  
(frozen)1 to 2 pounds 390°F 8 minutes 
If you ﬁnd ice on the shrimp, remove it; can bread before cooking.
Shrimp  
(fresh)1 to 2 pounds 390°F 5 minutes 
Shell and devein shrimp; pat dry. Can bread before cooking.
Salmon  
ﬁllets4 6-ounce 
ﬁllets300°F 9 to 14 minutes
Brush with oil and sprinkle with seasonings before cooking to an internal 
temperature of 140°F.
Salmon  
steak4 8-ounce 
steaks300°F 14 to 18 minutes
Brush with oil and sprinkle with seasonings; cook to an internal temperature of 140°F.17 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHOTHER
Egg rolls 6 to 8 390°F 3 to 6 minutes
Brush or mist with oil before cooking.
Pizza 1 pizza 390°F 5 to 10 minutes
Place pizza on parchment paper in the basket. Make sure it ﬁts into the basket.
Grilled cheese 
sandwiches1 to 3 
sandwiches400°F 7 minutes
Place on parchment paper; turn with tongs halfway through cooking.
Cake 1 8-inch pan 320°F 20 to 25 minutes
Use a cake pan that ﬁts easily inside the basket.
Muffins 10 muffins 360°F 10 to 12 minutes
Muffins should be placed inside double foil cups; place in single layer.
Fruit 2 to 4 cups 320°F3 to 5 minutes for soft 
fruits; 5 to 10 minutes 
for hard fruits
Cook hard fruits, such as apples, and soft fruits, such as peaches, separately.18 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKHEALTHY OILS
While the air fryer doesn’t need oil to turn out beautifully bronzed, crisp 
food, some recipes call for the addition of a small amount of oil. The best 
oils to use have a “high smoke point,” that is, the temperature at which 
they begin to smoke. Those oils are refined peanut oil, refined safflower 
oil, refined grapeseed oil, refined corn oil, and extra light olive oil (not to 
be confused with extra virgin olive oil, which has a lower smoke point).
The healthiest fat for cooking is olive oil. This oil can raise the good 
cholesterol and reduce bad cholesterol in your blood because it contains 
monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs). Using olive oil in cooking may also 
reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes, lower cholesterol levels, and 
reduce the risk of a stroke.
If you don’t like using artificial cooking sprays, buy an oil mister and add 
the oil of your choice. This is the best way to evenly coat foods with a little 
bit of oil.
Straight from the Store
For the ultimate in quick cooking and convenience, some foods can be dropped 
into the air fryer as is. You can cook frozen French fries (curly fried or straight), 
tater tots, bread dough, puff pastry, vegetables (such as cauliﬂower ﬂorets, bell 
pepper strips, and carrot sticks), baby potatoes, frozen waffles and pancakes, 
and whole nuts in the air fryer, just as they come out of the bag or box. Meats 
and ﬁsh that you can drop into the air fryer include frozen chicken nuggets, 
chicken drumsticks, and chicken wings, ﬁsh sticks, ﬁsh ﬁllets, salmon ﬁllets and 
steaks, beef steaks, and pre-marinated meats (after patting them dry).
 In fact, many air fryers have automatic cooking times set into the appliance 
for each food, so you don’t have to guess about the time or temperature. Read 
through the instruction manual for the foods that can be cooked with the single 
push of a button.19 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHAIR FRYER SAFETY
As safe as this appliance is, you still need to handle it with care. Read 
through the instruction manual for basic safety tips.
Always place the air fryer on a stable, even, and heat-proof surface. I like 
to put mine on my smooth ceramic cooktop (turned off, of course).
While the fryer is cooking, steam will be released from the vents. This 
steam can be hot, so stay away from the appliance, and keep your hands 
and face away from the vents.
When you remove the basket from the air fryer, don’t touch the basket or 
the pan it’s attached to because they will be very hot. Never tip food out of 
the fryer. The pan may have hot oil or liquid in it, and tipping it will spill that 
liquid over the food and it may splash on you. And never press the button 
holding the basket and pan together when you remove them; that could 
cause burns.
Always cook ground beef and pork to 160°F, ground turkey and chicken to 
165ºF, pork to 145°F, chicken to 165°F, and fish to 140°F for food safety rea -
sons. Use a food thermometer to make sure these meats are cooked to the 
correct temperature.
PROBLEM SOLVING
Again, because all air fryers are a bit different, you’ll want to read the 
manual that comes with your appliance. Each machine may have different 
cooking times and temperatures for different foods.
I have found that shaking the basket when cooking small items and 
turning larger pieces, such as sandwiches and pork chops, gives food an 
appetizing color and crisp texture. Adding a bit of oil using your mister 
or a brush also makes food taste deep-fried.
If the food isn’t crisp, it may have been too wet when you placed it in 
the fryer. Before cooking, pat dry such foods as marinated chicken and 
vegetables. Smoke coming from the machine is another problem. White 
smoke means that foods are too wet or have a lot of fat; some of that smoke 20 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKmay just be steam, or the result of particles of food that were stuck to the 
inside of the fryer. Black smoke, however, is a sign of a real problem and may 
mean the machine is malfunctioning. If this happens, turn it off, unplug it, 
let it cool, and take it to a repair shop or contact the manufacturer.
CLEANING AND CARING FOR YOUR AIR FRYER
The instruction manual will have specifics about how to clean and care for 
your machine. Remember that the air fryer is not a toy, but cooking equip -
ment, and should be treated with care.
Let the machine cool down before attempting to clean. Remove the bas -
ket and pan and wash with soap and water and a plastic scrubbing brush. 
If food is stuck on these pieces, let them soak in warm water for 10 to 
20 minutes, then clean. Some parts may be dishwasher-safe; check the 
instruction manual.
Pairing Recipes
Some air fryers come with a separator panel that you can use to cook two 
different kinds of food at the same time. Look in the instruction manual or in 
this book and ﬁnd foods that cook at the same temperature. The timing doesn’t 
have to be exactly the same, since you can remove the food that is cooked and 
return the basket to the fryer to ﬁnish cooking the other food.
 Some examples include steak with vegetables, chicken breasts with potato 
wedges, and ﬁsh sticks with thick French fries (or chips, as the Brits call 
them). If the cooking temperature is close (say, one cooks at 350°F and 
another at 360°F), you can adjust the cooking time slightly to accommodate 
the difference.
 Practice makes perfect, so don’t hesitate to experiment. Just make sure that 
you cook meats, seafood, and poultry to safe internal temperatures.21 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEALTHMake sure that you always check inside the appliance for stray crumbs or 
bits of food and remove them. Wipe the appliance—turned off, unplugged, 
and cooled down—both inside and outside with a damp towel, sponge, or 
paper towel. If grease or oil has fallen to the bottom of the pan, soak it up 
with paper towels, then wipe clean.
ABOUT THE RECIPES
The recipes in this book were chosen for appeal, ease of preparation, and 
speed. Each recipe is labeled with a few defining words:
• Fast
• Family Favorite
• Vegetarian• Vegan
• Gluten-Free
Fast recipes will be ready to eat in 15 minutes or less, start to finish. Family 
Favorite recipes serve at least four people and use kid-friendly ingredients.
Some of these recipes reproduce deep-fried foods, while others are cooked 
with steam (with a little liquid in the pan holding the basket), while others 
are baked, grilled, or stir-fried. When you first make these recipes, use the 
shortest cooking time, because every air fryer is different. If you need to add 
more time, you can, but you can’t undo overcooked or burned food.
Once you get the hang of your air fryer, you can branch out and even 
experiment a little. Try making chips using other vegetables that are thinly 
sliced and patted dry. Try using other herbs and spices in place of the ones 
called for in the recipe, or substitute different vegetables or fruits. Most of 
all, enjoy!2
BREAKFAST
24 Hard-Cooked Eggs
25 Asparagus Strata
26 Shrimp and Rice Frittata
27 Scotch Eggs
28 Omelette in Bread Cups29 Mixed Berry Muffins
30 Cranberry Beignets
31 Dutch Pancake
32 Monkey Bread
33 Chocolate-Filled Doughnut Holes24 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
6 large eggs300°F  
BakeHard-Cooked Eggs
PREP TIME: 1 MINUTE / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 6
Believe it or not, you can hard-cook eggs in the air fryer! The egg 
may have a couple of tiny dark spots where the egg was in con -
tact with the basket, but if you don’t mind that slight ﬂaw, this is 
a much easier way to cook this ingredient.
1. Carefully put the eggs in a single layer in the air fryer basket.
2. Bake for at least 8 minutes for a slightly runny yolk, or 12 to 
15 minutes for a firmer yolk. You may need to experiment 
with your air fryer to find the best time.
3. Remove the eggs from the air fryer carefully, using tongs, 
and immediately place them in a bowl of very cold water.
4. Let the eggs stand in the cold water for 5 minutes, then 
gently crack the shell under water. Let the eggs stand for 
another minute or two, then peel and eat.
Ingredient tip:  Make a lot of eggs in advance for a super quick and 
 nutritious breakfast. They will keep in the refrigerator for three days. For 
food safety reasons, never ever store cooked eggs at room temperature.
Per serving: Calories: 63; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 164mg; Sodium: 62mg; 
Carbohydrates: <1g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 6g25 BREAKFASTVegetarian
6 asparagus 
spears, cut 
into 2-inch 
pieces
2 slices whole-
wheat bread, 
cut into 
½-inch cubes
4 eggs
3 tablespoons 
whole milk
½ cup grated 
Havarti or 
Swiss cheese
2 tablespoons 
chopped ﬂat-
leaf parsley
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper330°F  
BakeAsparagus Strata
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A strata is a bread, veggie, and cheese mixture covered with 
baked eggs. It’s a cross between a bread pudding and a frittata, 
with the best elements of both. For this recipe, you can use any 
kind of bread you have on hand.
1. Place the asparagus spears and 1 tablespoon water in a 
6-inch baking pan and place in the air fryer basket. Bake for 
3 to 5 minutes or until crisp and tender. Remove the aspar -
agus from the pan and drain it. Spray the pan with nonstick 
cooking spray.
2. Arrange the bread cubes and asparagus into the pan and 
set aside.
3. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs with the milk until 
combined. Add the cheese, parsley, salt, and pepper. Pour into 
the baking pan.
4. Bake for 11 to 14 minutes or until the eggs are set and the top 
starts to brown.
Substitution tip:  Use other vegetables in place of the asparagus. Leftover 
veggies work well. Use cooked peas, broccoli, green beans, or zucchini in 
this ﬂavorful recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 166; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 178mg; Sodium: 200mg; 
Carbohydrates: 9g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 12g26 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKShrimp and Rice Frittata
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Make this recipe even easier by using leftover rice or rice from 
your favorite Asian restaurant. You can also buy frozen rice that’s 
easily thawed by running hot water over the package.
1. In a small bowl, beat the eggs with the salt and basil 
until frothy. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan with nonstick 
cooking spray.
2. Combine the rice, shrimp, and spinach in the prepared pan. 
Pour the eggs in and sprinkle with the cheese.
3. Bake for 14 to 18 minutes or until the frittata is puffed and 
golden brown.
Substitution tip:  This recipe can be changed to suit your taste. If you don’t 
like shrimp, use cooked sausages or chopped cooked chicken. Or omit the 
spinach and use chopped bell peppers or frozen baby peas instead.
Per serving: Calories: 226; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 221mg; Sodium: 232mg; 
Carbohydrates: 19; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 16gGluten-Free
4 eggs
Pinch salt
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
Nonstick 
cooking spray
½ cup cooked 
rice
½ cup chopped 
cooked 
shrimp
½ cup baby 
spinach
½ cup grated 
Monterey Jack 
or Cojack 
cheese320°F  
Bake27 BREAKFASTFamily Favorite
6 hard-cooked 
eggs
1½ pounds bulk 
lean chicken 
or turkey 
sausage
3 raw eggs, 
divided
1½ cups dried 
bread crumbs, 
divided
½ cup ﬂour
Oil, for misting370°F  
FryScotch Eggs
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 12 MINUTES / SERVES 6
Scotch eggs are an English classic made with a hard-cooked 
egg encased in pork sausage and deep-fried. Here you’ll lighten 
up the recipe by using chicken sausage and cooking it in the air 
fryer. Serve with a fruit salad and some cinnamon rolls or muffins 
for a celebratory breakfast.
1. Peel the hard-cooked eggs and set aside.
2. In a large bowl, combine the chicken sausage, one raw egg, 
and ½ cup of the bread crumbs, and mix well. Divide into six 
pieces and flatten each into a long oval.
3. In a shallow bowl, beat the remaining two raw eggs.
4. Roll each hard-cooked egg in the flour and wrap one of 
the chicken sausage pieces around the egg to completely 
encircle it.
5. Roll the egg first in the flour, then dip in the beaten eggs, and 
finally dip in the bread crumbs to coat. Prepare the remaining 
eggs the same way.
6. Place the eggs in a single layer in the air fryer and spray 
with oil.
7. Air-fry for 6 minutes, then turn using tongs and mist with 
more oil. Air-fry for 5 to 7 minutes or until the chicken is 
thoroughly cooked and the Scotch eggs are brown.
Did You Know?  You can buy hard-cooked eggs, already peeled, at many 
grocery stores! Look for them in the dairy case, and make sure to follow 
expiration dates to the letter. Or hard-cook them right in your air fryer 
(Hard-Cooked Eggs, page 24).
Per serving: Calories: 623; Total Fat: 40g; Saturated Fat: 13g; Cholesterol: 341mg; 
Sodium: 1,140mg; Carbohydrates: 28g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 35g28 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKOmelette in Bread Cups
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Serving an omelette in a bread cup is a fun twist on a breakfast 
classic. The bread becomes crisp and toasted, while the eggs stay 
moist and ﬂuffy. You can substitute different ingredients to add 
to the eggs, but bacon and cheese make a perfect savory combo.
1. Cut the tops off the rolls and remove the insides with your 
fingers to make a shell with about ½-inch of bread remaining. 
Line the rolls with a slice of cheese, pressing down gently so 
the cheese conforms to the inside of the roll.
2. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs with the heavy cream until 
combined. Stir in the thyme, bacon, and salt and pepper.
3. Spoon the egg mixture into the rolls over the cheese.
4. Bake for 8 to 12 minutes or until the eggs are puffy and 
starting to brown on top.
Ingredient tip:  Freeze the leftover bread for a later use as homemade 
bread crumbs. They are much tastier than store-bought bread crumbs.
Per serving: Calories: 499; Total Fat: 24g; Saturated Fat: 9g; Cholesterol: 250mg; 
Sodium: 1,025mg; Carbohydrates: 46g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 25gFamily Favorite
4 (3-by-4-inch) 
crusty rolls
4 thin slices 
Gouda or 
Swiss cheese 
mini wedges
5 eggs
2 tablespoons 
heavy cream
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
3 strips 
precooked 
bacon, 
chopped
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper330°F  
Bake29 BREAKFASTFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1⅓ cups plus 
1 tablespoon 
ﬂour
2 teaspoons 
baking 
powder
¼ cup white 
sugar
2 tablespoons 
brown sugar
2 eggs
⅔ cup whole 
milk
⅓ cup safflower 
oil
1 cup mixed 
fresh berries320°F  
BakeMixed Berry Muffins
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / MAKES 8 MUFFINS
This easy recipe makes eight light and tender muffins that 
your entire family will love. Choose your favorite fresh 
 berries: chopped strawberries, blueberries, and raspberries 
are all delicious.
1. In medium bowl, combine the 1 ⅓ cups flour, baking powder, 
white sugar, and brown sugar, and mix well.
2. In small bowl, combine the eggs, milk, and oil, and beat until 
combined. Stir the egg mixture into the dry ingredients just 
until combined.
3. In another small bowl, toss the mixed berries with the 
remaining 1 tablespoon of flour until coated. Stir gently into 
the batter.
4. Double up 16 foil muffin cups to make 8 cups. Put 4 cups into 
the air fryer and fill three-quarters full with the batter. Bake 
for 12 to 17 minutes or until the tops of the muffins spring 
back when lightly touched with your finger.
5. Repeat with the remaining muffin cups and batter. Cool on a 
wire rack for 10 minutes before serving.
Did You Know?  You can use frozen berries in this recipe, but don’t thaw 
them before use. If frozen berries are thawed they will make the batter 
too wet, and the berries may stain the batter.
Per serving: Calories: 230; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 43mg; Sodium: 26mg; 
Carbohydrates: 30g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4g30 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKCranberry Beignets
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / MAKES 16 BEIGNETS
Beignets were made famous at New Orleans’ Café du Monde, 
which serves the little puffs with hot, freshly brewed chicory 
coffee. These beignets have chopped dried cranberries stirred 
into the dough, which adds wonderful ﬂavor and color. This is a 
baking powder beignet recipe, which means you don’t have to 
wait for a yeast dough to rise.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking soda, salt, 
and brown sugar, and mix well. Stir in dried cranberries.
2. In a small bowl, combine the buttermilk and egg, and 
beat until smooth. Stir into the dry ingredients just 
until moistened.
3. Pat the dough into an 8-by-8-inch square and cut into 
16 pieces. Coat each piece lightly with melted butter.
4. Place in a single layer in the air fryer basket, making sure 
the pieces don’t touch. You may have to cook in batches 
depending on the size of your air fryer basket. Air-fry for 
5 to 8 minutes or until puffy and golden brown. Dust with 
powdered sugar before serving, if desired.
Did You Know?  Using unsalted butter ensures food will not stick to the air 
fryer basket when cooking. Salt in butter can make foods stick, which is 
not what you want.
Per serving: Calories: 76; Total Fat: 3g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 16mg; Sodium: 221mg; 
Carbohydrates: 11g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 2g330°F  
Fry
Family Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1½ cups ﬂour
2 teaspoons 
baking soda
¼ teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons 
brown sugar
⅓ cup chopped 
dried 
cranberries
½ cup buttermilk
1 egg
3 tablespoons 
melted 
unsalted 
butter31 BREAKFASTFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
2 (scant) 
tablespoons 
unsalted 
butter
3 eggs
½ cup ﬂour
½ cup milk
½ teaspoon 
vanilla
1½ cups 
sliced fresh 
strawberries
2 tablespoons 
powdered 
sugar330°F  
BakeDutch Pancake
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A Dutch pancake is made from a batter cooked quickly at 
high heat so it puffs up in the oven. When you take it out of 
the oven, it falls, making a natural well to ﬁll with just about 
 anything—from scrambled eggs to fresh fruits to lots of syrup. 
Enjoy with turkey bacon and a cold glass of orange juice.
1. Preheat the air fryer with a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan in the 
basket. Add the butter and heat until the butter melts.
2. Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, add the eggs, flour, milk, 
and vanilla, and beat well with an eggbeater until combined 
and frothy.
3. Carefully remove the basket with the pan from the air fryer 
and tilt so the butter covers the bottom of the pan. Immedi -
ately pour in the batter and put back in the fryer.
4. Bake for 12 to 16 minutes or until the pancake is puffed and 
golden brown.
5. Remove from the oven; the pancake will fall. Top with straw -
berries and powdered sugar and serve immediately.
Substitution tip:  This pancake can be served with savory ﬁllings, too. Add 
some crisply cooked bacon, hot cooked sausage, or cheese that will melt 
on the crisp and hot pancake.
Per serving: Calories: 196; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 138mg; Sodium: 96mg; 
Carbohydrates: 22g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 7g32 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKMonkey Bread
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Monkey bread may be a strange name for a breakfast pastry that 
contains no bananas! Instead, biscuit dough is cut into pieces, 
coated in butter, sugar, and spices, and baked. When it’s done 
baking, simply pull off pieces of the sweet bread and enjoy warm.
1. Open the can of biscuits, separate, and cut each biscuit into 
4 pieces.
2. Combine the white sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon, and 
nutmeg in a shallow bowl and mix well.
3. Dip each biscuit briefly into the butter and roll in the sugar 
mixture to coat. Place in a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan.
4. Bake for 6 to 9 minutes or until golden brown. Let cool 
for 5 minutes, then serve. Be careful when eating at first, 
because the sugar gets very hot.
Did You Know?  The origin of the Monkey Bread name is lost in the annals 
of history. Some people think it got its name because it looks like the 
Monkey Puzzle tree. Or it may be that the bread is “as much fun as a 
 barrel of monkeys.”
Per serving: Calories: 393; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 24mg; Sodium: 787mg; 
Carbohydrates: 55g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 5g350°F  
Bake
Fast, Family 
Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 (8-ounce) can 
refrigerated 
biscuits
¼ cup white 
sugar
3 tablespoons 
brown sugar
½ teaspoon 
cinnamon
⅛ teaspoon 
nutmeg
3 tablespoons 
melted 
unsalted 
butter33 BREAKFASTFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 (8-count) can 
refrigerated 
biscuits
24 to 48 
semisweet 
chocolate 
chips
3 tablespoons 
melted 
unsalted 
butter
¼ cup powdered 
sugar340°F  
FryChocolate-Filled  
Doughnut Holes
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 12 MINUTES /  
MAKES 24 DOUGHNUT HOLES
Doughnut holes are the little round puffs that are removed when 
doughnuts are formed. In this case, you use biscuit dough and 
wrap each piece around a chocolate chip. When baked, the choc -
olate inside melts, making a decadent breakfast treat.
1. Separate and cut each biscuit into thirds.
2. Flatten each biscuit piece slightly and put 1 to 2 chocolate 
chips in the center. Wrap the dough around the chocolate 
and seal the edges well.
3. Brush each doughnut hole with a bit of the butter and air-fry 
in batches for 8 to 12 minutes.
4. Remove and dust with powdered sugar. Serve warm.
Variation tip:  Get creative with the ﬁllings for these little doughnut holes. 
Use a combination of chocolate chips and nuts, or try chopped-up candy 
bars. Just make sure the dough isn’t ﬁlled too tightly, or the holes may 
split during air frying.
Per serving: Calories: 393; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 24mg; Sodium: 787mg; 
Carbohydrates: 55g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 5g3
LUNCH
36 Vegetable Egg Rolls
37 Veggies on Toast
38 Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms
39 Mushroom Pita Pizzas
40 Spinach Quiche
41 Yellow Squash Fritters
42 Pesto Gnocchi
43 English Muffin Tuna Sandwiches
44 Tuna Zucchini Melts45 Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches
46 Shrimp Croquettes
47 Dutch Pancake with Shrimp Salsa
48 Steamed Scallops with Dill
49 Chicken Pita Sandwiches
50 Chicken à la King
51 Sweet and Hot Bacon and 
Bell Pepper Sandwiches36 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKVegetable Egg Rolls
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / MAKES 8 EGG ROLLS
Egg rolls and the air fryer are a perfect match. The wrapping 
gets so crisp and light, and the ﬁlling is perfectly heated—all with 
very little oil! Enjoy these for lunch with soy or sweet-and-sour 
 dipping sauces.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the mushrooms, carrots, 
zucchini, green onions, and soy sauce, and stir together.
2. Place the egg roll wrappers on a work surface. Top each with 
about 3 tablespoons of the vegetable mixture.
3. In a small bowl, combine the cornstarch and egg and mix 
well. Brush some of this mixture on the edges of the egg 
roll wrappers. Roll up the wrappers, enclosing the vegetable 
filling. Brush some of the egg mixture on the outside of the 
egg rolls to seal.
4. Air-fry for 7 to 10 minutes or until the egg rolls are brown 
and crunchy.
Substitution tip:  You can use spring roll wrappers for this recipe; they are 
thinner than the egg roll wrappers so they won’t take as long to cook.
Calories: 112; Total Fat: 1g; Saturated Fat: 0g; Cholesterol: 23mg; Sodium: 417mg; 
Carbohydrates: 21g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
½ cup chopped 
mushrooms
½ cup grated 
carrots
½ cup chopped 
zucchini
2 green onions, 
chopped
2 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce
8 egg roll 
wrappers
1 tablespoon 
cornstarch
1 egg, beaten390°F  
Fry37 LUNCHVegetarian
1 red bell 
pepper, cut 
into ½-inch 
strips
1 cup sliced 
button or 
cremini 
mushrooms
1 small yellow 
squash, sliced
2 green onions, 
cut into 
½-inch slices
Extra light olive 
oil for misting
4 to 6 pieces 
sliced French 
or Italian 
bread
2 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
½ cup soft goat 
cheese330°F  
RoastVeggies on Toast
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 MINUTES / SERVES 4
In this easy, healthy recipe, roasted vegetables top toasted bread 
that is spread with soft goat cheese. You can use any tender 
veggies you’d like. Root vegetables, such as potatoes or carrots, 
will take longer to roast and shouldn’t be combined with the 
softer produce.
1. Combine the red pepper, mushrooms, squash, and green 
onions in the air fryer and mist with oil. Roast for 7 to 
9 minutes or until the vegetables are tender, shaking the 
basket once during cooking time.
2. Remove the vegetables from the basket and set aside.
3. Spread the bread with butter and place in the air fryer, 
butter-side up. Toast for 2 to 4 minutes or until golden brown.
4. Spread the goat cheese on the toasted bread and top with the 
vegetables; serve warm.
Variation tip:  To add even more ﬂavor, drizzle the ﬁnished toasts with 
extra-virgin olive oil and balsamic vinegar.
Calories: 162; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 30mg; Sodium: 160mg; 
Carbohydrates: 9g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 7g38 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKJumbo Stuffed Mushrooms
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
If you look in the produce section, you can often ﬁnd portobello 
mushrooms that are about 3 inches in diameter. These mush -
rooms are large enough—and satisfying enough—that one makes 
a lunch-size serving. The cheesy spinach ﬁlling is made fragrant 
with fresh rosemary.
1. Wipe the mushrooms with a damp cloth. Remove the 
stems and discard. Using a spoon, gently scrape out most of 
the gills.
2. Rub the mushrooms with the olive oil. Put in the air fryer 
basket, hollow side up, and bake for 3 minutes. Carefully 
remove the mushroom caps, because they will contain liquid. 
Drain the liquid out of the caps.
3. In a medium bowl, combine the ricotta, 3 tablespoons of 
Parmesan cheese, spinach, bread crumbs, and rosemary, and 
mix well.
4. Stuff this mixture into the drained mushroom caps. Sprinkle 
with the remaining 2 tablespoons of Parmesan cheese. Put 
the mushroom caps back into the basket.
5. Bake for 4 to 6 minutes or until the filling is hot and the 
mushroom caps are tender.
Did You Know?  The gills in large mushroom caps are edible, but they can 
be bitter when cooked. You can easily remove them with a spoon.
Per serving: Calories: 117; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 10mg; Sodium: 180mg; 
Carbohydrates: 8g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 7gVegetarian
4 jumbo 
portobello 
mushrooms
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
¼ cup ricotta 
cheese
5 tablespoons 
Parmesan 
cheese, 
divided
1 cup frozen 
chopped 
spinach, 
thawed and 
drained
⅓ cup bread 
crumbs
¼ teaspoon 
minced fresh 
rosemary390°F  
Bake39 LUNCHFast
4 (3-inch) pitas
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
¾ cup pizza 
sauce
1 (4-ounce) 
jar sliced 
mushrooms, 
drained
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
2 green onions, 
minced
1 cup grated 
mozzarella 
or provolone 
cheese
1 cup sliced 
grape 
tomatoes360°F  
BakeMushroom Pita Pizzas
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Pita bread makes a great crust for a super-quick pizza. The bread 
becomes crisp and crunchy, while the cheese gets all bubbly 
and brown in the air fryer. You can use this basic method to 
make pizza with just about any cooked topping, such as meat 
or veggies.
1. Brush each piece of pita with oil and top with the 
pizza sauce.
2. Add the mushrooms and sprinkle with basil and green 
onions. Top with the grated cheese.
3. Bake for 3 to 6 minutes or until the cheese is melted 
and starts to brown. Top with the grape tomatoes and 
serve immediately.
Substitution tip:  Look for canned pizza sauce in the pasta aisle of the 
supermarket. Or, substitute ¾ cup pasta sauce mixed with a pinch each 
of dried basil, thyme, oregano, marjoram, and cayenne pepper.
Per serving: Calories: 231; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 15mg; Sodium: 500mg; 
Carbohydrates: 25g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 13g40 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSpinach Quiche
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 3
A crustless quiche is not only quick to pull together, it’s less 
dense than the original. This recipe satisﬁes for a no-fuss lunch 
and tastes even better the next day, eaten cold.
1. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs until blended. Stir in 
the spinach, cream, honey mustard, cheese, thyme, salt, 
and pepper.
2. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan baking pan with nonstick spray. 
Pour the egg mixture into the pan.
3. Bake for 18 to 22 minutes or until the egg mixture is puffed, 
light golden brown, and set.
4. Let cool for 5 minutes, then cut into wedges to serve.
Substitution tip:  You could use just about any cooked, leftover vegetable 
in this easy recipe as long as you keep the amounts about the same. 
Try adding cooked broccoli ﬂorets, steamed asparagus pieces, or 
cooked mushrooms.
Per serving: Calories: 203; Total Fat: 15g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 199mg; Sodium: 211mg; 
Carbohydrates: 6g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 11gVegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
3 eggs
1 cup frozen 
chopped 
spinach, 
thawed and 
drained
⅓ cup heavy 
cream
2 tablespoons 
honey 
mustard
½ cup grated 
Swiss or 
Havarti cheese
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour320°F  
Bake41 LUNCHFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 (3-ounce) 
package 
cream cheese, 
softened
1 egg, beaten
½ teaspoon 
dried oregano
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 medium yellow 
summer 
squash, 
grated
⅓ cup grated 
carrot
⅔ cup bread 
crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil340°F  
FryYellow Squash Fritters
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 7 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Fritters are usually made with shredded vegetables mixed with 
cheese and egg, and fried in fat until they are browned and crisp. 
The air fryer makes them with very little fat, but they still retain 
the crunchy exterior and delicious, dense interior.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the cream cheese, egg, oregano, 
and salt and pepper. Add the squash and carrot, and mix 
well. Stir in the bread crumbs.
2. Form about 2 tablespoons of this mixture into a patty about 
½ inch thick. Repeat with remaining mixture. Brush the 
fritters with olive oil.
3. Air-fry until crisp and golden, about 7 to 9 minutes.
Cooking tip:  Yellow summer squash has a thin skin so you don’t have to 
peel it before preparation. If you want to use zucchini in this recipe, peel it 
before grating, because the skin is tougher.
Per serving: Calories: 234; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 6g; Cholesterol: 64mg; Sodium: 261mg; 
Carbohydrates: 16g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 6g42 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKPesto Gnocchi
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Gnocchi can be found in the pasta section of the supermarket, 
in a shelf-stable package that doesn’t need refrigeration. When 
cooked in the air fryer, the result is different than when you boil 
them; expect a crisp and tender bite.
1. Combine the oil, onion, garlic, and gnocchi in a 6-by-6-  
by-2-inch pan and put into the air fryer.
2. Bake for 10 minutes, then remove the pan and stir.
3. Return the pan to the air fryer and cook for 8 to 13 minutes 
or until the gnocchi are lightly browned and crisp.
4. Remove the pan from the air fryer. Stir in the pesto and 
Parmesan cheese, and serve immediately.
Did You Know?  Gnocchi is pronounced “nyuk-ee.” They are little oval 
dumplings about 1 inch long with ridges on one side. They can be fried, 
baked, or boiled.
Per serving: Calories: 646; Total Fat: 32g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 103mg; 
Sodium: 461mg; Carbohydrates: 69g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 22gVegetarian
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 onion, ﬁnely 
chopped
3 cloves garlic, 
sliced
1 (16-ounce) 
package shelf-
stable gnocchi
1 (8-ounce) jar 
pesto
⅓ cup grated 
Parmesan 
cheese390°F  
Bake43 LUNCHFast, Family 
Favorite
1 (6-ounce) can 
chunk light 
tuna, drained
¼ cup 
mayonnaise
2 tablespoons 
mustard
1 tablespoon 
lemon juice
2 green onions, 
minced
3 English 
muffins, split 
with a fork
3 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
6 thin slices 
provolone 
or Muenster 
cheese390°F  
GrillEnglish Muffin  
Tuna Sandwiches
PREP TIME: 8 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 4
There probably isn’t a faster recipe on the planet—unless you 
want to eat dry cereal! With just a few ingredients and 13   minutes, 
you can enjoy a substantial sandwich made from toasted English 
muffins, melted cheese, and a cool spicy tuna salad.
1. In a small bowl, combine the tuna, mayonnaise, mustard, 
lemon juice, and green onions.
2. Butter the cut side of the English muffins. Grill butter-side up 
in the air fryer for 2 to 4 minutes or until light golden brown. 
Remove the muffins from the air fryer basket.
3. Top each muffin with one slice of cheese and return to the 
air fryer. Grill for 2 to 4 minutes or until the cheese melts and 
starts to brown.
4. Remove the muffins from the air fryer, top with the tuna 
mixture, and serve.
Ingredient tip:  If you’re concerned about sustainability, opt for pole-
caught tuna.
Per serving: Calories: 389; Total Fat: 23g; Saturated Fat: 10g; Cholesterol: 50mg; 
Sodium: 495mg; Carbohydrates: 25g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 21g44 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKTuna Zucchini Melts
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A tuna melt is a classic diner sandwich, which is usually cooked 
on the grill in butter. The air fryer makes a fabulous melt sand -
wich with very little added fat. The zucchini provides additional 
color, ﬂavor, and nutrition to this twist on a classic.
1. Spread the tortillas with the softened butter. Place in the air 
fryer basket and grill for 2 to 3 minutes or until the tortillas 
are crisp. Remove from basket and set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the tuna, zucchini, mayonnaise, 
and mustard, and mix well.
3. Divide the tuna mixture among the toasted tortillas. Top each 
with some of the shredded cheese.
4. Grill in the air fryer for 2 to 4 minutes or until the tuna 
mixture is hot, and the cheese melts and starts to 
brown. Serve.
Ingredient tip:  You can ﬁnd tuna canned in water or in oil in most gro -
cery stores. The oil-canned tuna has a better ﬂavor, but the water-canned 
variety is lower in calories. Choose chunk light tuna for the best ﬂavor 
and texture.
Per serving: Calories: 428; Total Fat: 30g; Saturated Fat: 13g; Cholesterol: 71mg; Sodium: 410mg; 
Carbohydrates: 19g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 22gGluten-Free
4 corn tortillas
3 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
1 (6-ounce) can 
chunk light 
tuna, drained
1 cup shredded 
zucchini, 
drained by 
squeezing in a 
kitchen towel
⅓ cup 
mayonnaise
2 tablespoons 
mustard
1 cup shredded 
Cheddar or 
Colby cheese340°F  
Grill45 LUNCHFast
1¼ cups 
shredded 
Colby, 
Cheddar, or 
Havarti cheese
1 (6-ounce) can 
tiny shrimp, 
drained
3 tablespoons 
mayonnaise
2 tablespoons 
minced green 
onion
4 slices whole 
grain or 
whole-wheat 
bread
2 tablespoons 
softened 
butter400°F  
GrillShrimp and Grilled  
Cheese Sandwiches
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 4
The air fryer lets you make grilled cheese without having to ﬂip 
the sandwiches while they cook, or hover over the stove baby -
sitting them. Use your favorite cheese in this easy recipe.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the cheese, shrimp, mayonnaise, 
and green onion, and mix well.
2. Spread this mixture on two of the slices of bread. Top with 
the other slices of bread to make two sandwiches. Spread the 
sandwiches lightly with butter.
3. Grill in the air fryer for 5 to 7 minutes or until the bread is 
browned and crisp and the cheese is melted. Cut in half and 
serve warm.
Substitution tip:  Instead of the shrimp in this recipe, try using canned 
crabmeat, chicken, or tuna. Or for a vegetarian version, leave out the 
shrimp and replace with 1 cup of a different type of cheese.
Per serving: Calories: 276; Total Fat: 14g; Saturated Fat: 6g; Cholesterol: 115mg; Sodium: 573mg; 
Carbohydrates: 16g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 22g46 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKShrimp Croquettes
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 MINUTES / SERVES 3 TO 4
Croquettes are made with ﬁnely chopped meat mixed with bread 
crumbs and eggs, then formed into little balls or patties and 
deep-fried. With the air fryer you can make the guilt-free version 
of this decadent dish.
1. Finely chop the shrimp. Take about 1 tablespoon of the finely 
chopped shrimp and chop it further until it’s almost a paste. 
Set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine ½ cup of the bread crumbs with 
the egg and lemon juice. Let stand for 5 minutes.
3. Stir the shrimp, green onions, basil, salt, and pepper into the 
bread crumb mixture.
4. Combine the remaining 1 cup of bread crumbs with the olive 
oil on a shallow plate; mix well.
5. Form the shrimp mixture into 1½-inch round balls and press 
firmly with your hands. Roll in the bread crumb mixture 
to coat.
6. Air-fry the little croquettes in batches for 6 to 8 minutes or 
until they are brown and crisp. Serve with cocktail sauce for 
dipping, if desired.
Ingredient tip:  To devein shrimp, make a shallow cut along the back of 
each shrimp to expose the dark vein. Take it out with the tip of a knife or 
wash it out under cool running water.
Per serving: Calories: 330; Total Fat: 12g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 201mg; 
Sodium: 539mg; Carbohydrates: 31g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 24gFamily Favorite
⅔ pound cooked 
shrimp, 
shelled and 
deveined
1½ cups bread 
crumbs, 
divided
1 egg, beaten
2 tablespoon 
lemon juice
2 green onions, 
ﬁnely 
chopped
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons 
olive oil390°F  
Fry47 LUNCHFast
1 tablespoon 
plus 
2 teaspoons 
butter
3 eggs
½ cup ﬂour
½ cup milk
⅛ teaspoon salt
1 cup salsa
1 cup frozen 
fully cooked 
small shrimp, 
thawed390°F  
BakeDutch Pancake  
with Shrimp Salsa
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A Dutch pancake doesn’t have to be sweet! This savory version 
satisﬁes for lunch, especially when you top it with a mixture of 
spicy salsa and tender shrimp. Moving quickly through the ﬁrst 
few recipe steps is key to perfecting this dish.
1. Preheat the air fryer with a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan in the 
basket. Add the butter and heat until it melts.
2. Quickly combine the eggs, flour, milk, and salt in a medium 
bowl and beat well with an eggbeater until well mixed 
and frothy.
3. Carefully remove the basket with the pan from the air fryer 
and tilt so the butter covers the bottom of the pan. Imme -
diately pour the batter into the hot pan and put it back in 
the fryer.
4. Bake for 12 to 16 minutes or until the pancake is puffed and 
golden brown.
5. Stir together the salsa and shrimp and top the pancake with 
this mixture.
Cooking tip:  It’s easy to thaw frozen fully cooked shrimp. Just put them in 
a colander and run cold water over the shrimp for a few minutes. Drain the 
shrimp, pat dry, and it’s ready to use.
Per serving: Calories: 213; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 198mg; Sodium: 593mg; 
Carbohydrates: 18g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 14g48 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSteamed Scallops with Dill
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 4 MINUTES / SERVES 4
This recipe makes for an elegant—and quick—lunch. Or increase 
the number of scallops and prepare it for dinner. The  scallops 
release liquid as they heat, which goes into the pan below the 
basket and steams the ﬁsh. Serve on toast points or over rice.
1. Check the scallops for a small muscle attached to the side, 
and pull it off and discard it.
2. Toss the scallops with the lemon juice, olive oil, dill, salt, and 
pepper. Put into the air fryer basket.
3. Steam for 4 to 5 minutes, tossing the basket once during 
cooking time, until the scallops are just firm when tested 
with your finger. The internal temperature should be 145°F 
at minimum.
Ingredient tip:  There are two kinds of scallops—bay scallops and sea 
scallops. They are very different sizes; one is tiny, and the other large. 
Here’s an easy way to remember which is which: Bay scallops are smaller, 
because a bay is smaller than the sea.
Per serving: Calories: 121; Total Fat: 3g; Saturated Fat: 0g; Cholesterol: 37mg; Sodium: 223mg; 
Carbohydrates: 3g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 19gFast
1 pound sea 
scallops
1 tablespoon 
lemon juice
2 teaspoons 
olive oil
1 teaspoon 
dried dill
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper390°F  
Steam49 LUNCHFamily Favorite
2 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts, cut 
into 1-inch 
cubes
1 small red 
onion, sliced
1 red bell 
pepper, sliced
⅓ cup Italian 
salad 
dressing, 
divided
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
4 pita pockets, 
split
2 cups torn 
butter lettuce
1 cup chopped 
cherry 
tomatoes380°F  
BakeChicken Pita Sandwiches
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Pita bread makes wonderful sandwiches, but if you’ve only used 
cold ﬁllings for these little pockets, you’re in for a treat. Here, 
chicken, onion, and bell peppers are cooked until tender then 
tucked into pitas with fresh veggies and dressing.
1. Place the chicken, onion, and bell pepper in the air fryer 
basket. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the Italian salad 
dressing, add the thyme, and toss.
2. Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until the chicken is 165°F on a 
food thermometer, tossing once during cooking time.
3. Transfer the chicken and vegetables to a bowl and toss with 
the remaining salad dressing.
4. Assemble sandwiches with the pita pockets, butter lettuce, 
and cherry tomatoes.
Substitution tip:  This easy recipe can be made with cubed pork tender -
loin or cubed chicken thighs. Both of these meats will take a few minutes 
 longer to cook than the chicken breasts. Cook the pork to at least 145°F 
and the chicken thighs to 165°F.
Per serving: Calories: 414; Total Fat: 19g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 101mg; Sodium: 253mg; 
Carbohydrates: 22g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 36g50 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKChicken à la King
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Chicken à la King is another dinner classic, but that doesn’t mean 
you can’t enjoy it for lunch. Tender chicken is cooked in a white 
sauce, and then the whole thing is served with crusty bread.
1. Place the chicken, mushrooms, and bell pepper in the air 
fryer basket. Drizzle with the olive oil and toss to coat.
2. Roast for 10 to 15 minutes or until the chicken is 165°F 
on a food thermometer, tossing the food once during 
cooking time.
3. Remove the chicken and vegetables to a 6-inch metal bowl 
and stir in the Alfredo sauce and thyme. Return to the air 
fryer and cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until hot.
4. Meanwhile, spread the French bread slices with the butter. 
When the chicken is done, remove the pan from the basket 
and add the bread, butter-side up. Toast for 2 to 4 minutes or 
until light golden brown.
5. Place the toast on a serving plate and top with the chicken.
Air Fryer tip:  If your air fryer didn’t come with a pan to cook things in 
the basket, buy one! You can ﬁnd 6-by-6-by-2-inch pans in many kitchen 
supply stores. And a 6-inch metal bowl will hold ingredients and mixtures 
that are too large for the pan. Just make sure that the bowl ﬁts into your 
air fryer basket.
Per serving: Calories: 744; Total Fat: 32g; Saturated Fat: 15g; Cholesterol: 142mg; 
Sodium: 3,904mg; Carbohydrates: 64g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 50gFamily Favorite
2 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts, cut 
into 1-inch 
cubes
8 button 
mushrooms, 
sliced
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 (10-ounce) 
package 
refrigerated 
Alfredo sauce
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
6 slices French 
bread
2 tablespoons 
softened 
butter350°F  
Roast51 LUNCHFamily Favorite
⅓ cup spicy 
barbecue 
sauce
2 tablespoons 
honey
8 slices 
precooked 
bacon, cut 
into thirds
1 red bell 
pepper, sliced
1 yellow bell 
pepper, sliced
3 pita pockets, 
cut in half
1¼ cups torn 
butter lettuce 
leaves
2 tomatoes, 
sliced350°F  
GrillSweet and Hot Bacon and 
Bell Pepper Sandwiches
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 7 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Precooked bacon, which you can ﬁnd in the meat section of the 
supermarket, is a great convenience food that works beautifully 
in the air fryer. Because it is completely cooked, it only needs to 
be heated. And it releases much less fat than raw bacon, so the 
air fryer will not smoke.
1. In a small bowl, combine the barbecue sauce and the honey. 
Brush this mixture lightly onto the bacon slices and the red 
and yellow pepper slices.
2. Put the peppers into the air fryer basket and grill for 
4 minutes. Then shake the basket, add the bacon, and grill 
for 2 minutes or until the bacon is browned and the peppers 
are tender.
3. Fill the pita halves with the bacon, peppers, any 
remaining barbecue sauce, lettuce, and tomatoes, and 
serve immediately.
Substitution tip:  You can use Canadian bacon instead of precooked 
bacon. Cut each slice of Canadian bacon into three pieces and cook as 
directed in the recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 358; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 42mg; 
Sodium: 1,228mg; Carbohydrates:35g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 17g4
APpETIZERS
54 Steamed Pot Stickers
55 Beef and Mango Skewers
56 Curried Sweet Potato Fries
57 Spicy Kale Chips with  
Yogurt Sauce
58 Phyllo Artichoke Triangles
59 Spinach Dip with Bread Knots
60 Arancini
61 Pesto Bruschetta62 Fried Tortellini with  
Spicy Dipping Sauce
63 Shrimp Toast
64 Bacon Tater Tots
65 Hash Brown Bruschetta
66 Waffle Fry Poutine
67 Crispy Beef Cubes
68 Buffalo Chicken Bites
69 Sweet and Hot Chicken Wings54 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSteamed Pot Stickers
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES /  
MAKES 30 POT STICKERS
Pot stickers are little Chinese dumplings that you can ﬁll with 
anything you want, although you’ll typically ﬁnd meat or veg -
gies tucked inside. To make these vegetarian appetizers, look for 
wonton wrappers in the produce section of your supermarket.
1. In a small bowl, combine the cabbage, pepper, green onions, 
egg, cocktail sauce, and soy sauce, and mix well.
2. Put about 1 teaspoon of the mixture in the center of each 
wonton wrapper. Fold the wrapper in half, covering the 
filling; dampen the edges with water, and seal. You can 
crimp the edges of the wrapper with your fingers so they 
look like the pot stickers you get in restaurants. Brush them 
with water.
3. Put 3 tablespoons water in the pan under the air fryer basket. 
Cook the pot stickers in 2 batches for 9 to 10 minutes or until 
the pot stickers are hot and the bottoms are lightly browned.
Substitution tip:  Use other vegetables in this recipe, such as corn, baby 
peas, or chopped zucchini or summer squash. You could also add leftover 
cooked meat such as pork or chicken, ﬁnely chopped.
Per serving (3 pot stickers): Calories: 291; Total Fat: 2g; Saturated Fat: 0g; Cholesterol: 35mg; 
Sodium: 649mg; Carbohydrates: 57g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 10gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
½ cup ﬁnely 
chopped 
cabbage
¼ cup ﬁnely 
chopped red 
bell pepper
2 green onions, 
ﬁnely 
chopped
1 egg, beaten
2 tablespoons 
cocktail sauce
2 teaspoons low-
sodium soy 
sauce
30 wonton 
wrappers
3 tablespoons 
water, plus 
more for 
brushing the 
wrappers360°F  
Steam55 APPETIZERSFast,  
Gluten-Free
¾ pound beef 
sirloin tip, cut 
into 1-inch 
cubes
2 tablespoons 
balsamic 
vinegar
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 tablespoon 
honey
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 mango390°F  
GrillBeef and Mango Skewers
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Any kabob or skewered food cooks beautifully in the air fryer. The 
meat cooks up tender with a slight crust, and the fruit becomes 
caramelized and soft.
1. Put the beef cubes in a medium bowl and add the balsamic 
vinegar, olive oil, honey, marjoram, salt, and pepper. Mix well, 
then massage the marinade into the beef with your hands. 
Set aside.
2. To prepare the mango, stand it on end and cut the skin off, 
using a sharp knife. Then carefully cut around the oval pit to 
remove the flesh. Cut the mango into 1-inch cubes.
3. Thread metal skewers alternating with three beef cubes and 
two mango cubes.
4. Grill the skewers in the air fryer basket for 4 to 7 minutes or 
until the beef is browned and at least 145°F.
Substitution tip:  You can substitute peaches or nectarines for the mango 
in this recipe if you can’t ﬁnd a ripe mango. When gently pressed, any ripe 
stone fruit will give slightly and smell sweet.
Per serving: Calories: 242; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 76mg; Sodium: 96mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 26g56 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKCurried Sweet Potato Fries
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 TO 12 MINUTES / SERVES 4
If you’ve never tried sweet potato fries, they may become your 
new favorite! The potatoes are crisp and tender, and when coated 
with butter and curry powder, they take on an irresistible ﬂavor, 
especially when served with this creamy dip.
1. In a small bowl, combine sour cream, chutney, and 
1½ teaspoons of the curry powder. Mix well and set aside.
2. Put the sweet potatoes in a medium bowl. Drizzle with the 
olive oil and sprinkle with remaining 1½ teaspoons curry 
powder, salt, and pepper.
3. Put the potatoes in the air fryer basket. Cook for 8 to 
12 minutes or until crisp, hot, and golden brown, shaking 
the basket once during cooking time.
4. Place the fries in a serving basket and serve with the 
chutney dip.
Substitution tip:  You can use fresh sweet potatoes in place of the  frozen 
precut fries. Use one or two sweet potatoes, peel them, and cut into 
⅓-inch thick strips using a sharp knife or mandoline. Use as directed in 
recipe; but you will need to increase the cooking time.
Per serving: Calories: 323; Total Fat: 10g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 13mg; Sodium: 138mg; 
Carbohydrates: 58g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 3gFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
½ cup sour 
cream
½ cup mango 
chutney
3 teaspoons 
curry powder, 
divided
4 cups frozen 
sweet potato 
fries
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper390°F  
Bake57 APPETIZERSFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
1 cup Greek 
yogurt
3 tablespoons 
lemon juice
2 tablespoons 
honey 
mustard
½ teaspoon 
dried oregano
1 bunch curly 
kale
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
½ teaspoon salt
⅛ teaspoon 
pepper390°F  
FrySpicy Kale Chips  
with Yogurt Sauce
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Chips made from kale are unusual, delicious, and very good for 
you. This sturdy leafy green actually fries very well, considering 
it’s high in water content. The spicy dipping sauce pairs perfectly 
with the crisp chips.
1. In a small bowl, combine the yogurt, lemon juice, honey 
mustard, and oregano, and set aside.
2. Remove the stems and ribs from the kale with a sharp knife. 
Cut the leaves into 2- to 3-inch pieces.
3. Toss the kale with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Massage the oil 
into the leaves with your hands.
4. Air-fry the kale in batches until crisp, about 5 minutes, 
shaking the basket once during cooking time. Serve with the 
yogurt sauce.
Ingredient tip:  Kale comes in several different varieties. Tuscan (also 
known as dinosaur or lacinato) kale is the sturdiest and makes excellent 
chips. Curly kale, the variety most widely found in grocery stores, can 
become slightly frizzy when cooked in the air fryer, but is still delicious.
Per serving: Calories: 154; Total Fat: 8g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 3mg; Sodium: 378mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 8g58 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKPhyllo Artichoke Triangles
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 9 MINUTES / MAKES 18 TRIANGLES
A creamy ﬁlling is wrapped in crisp phyllo dough, then baked 
until brown and crunchy. Your guests will love this  classic. 
If you want more spice, make this recipe with marinated 
 artichoke hearts.
1. In a small bowl, combine ricotta cheese, egg white, artichoke 
hearts, mozzarella cheese, and thyme, and mix well.
2. Cover the phyllo dough with a damp kitchen towel while you 
work so it doesn’t dry out. Using one sheet at a time, place on 
the work surface and cut into thirds lengthwise.
3. Put about 1½ teaspoons of the filling on each strip at the 
base. Fold the bottom right-hand tip of phyllo over the filling 
to meet the other side in a triangle, then continue folding in 
a triangle. Brush each triangle with butter to seal the edges. 
Repeat with remaining phyllo dough and filling.
4. Bake, 6 at a time, for about 3 to 4 minutes or until the phyllo 
is golden brown and crisp.
Substitution tip:  You can use anything in this ﬁlling in place of the 
 artichoke hearts. Try spinach, chopped cooked shrimp, cooked sausage, 
or keep it vegetarian and use all grated cheese.
Per serving (3 triangles): Calories: 271; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 19mg; 
Sodium: 232mg; Carbohydrates: 23g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 9gVegetarian
¼ cup ricotta 
cheese
1 egg white
⅓ cup minced 
drained 
artichoke 
hearts
3 tablespoons 
grated 
mozzarella 
cheese
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
6 sheets frozen 
phyllo dough, 
thawed
2 tablespoons 
melted butter400°F  
Bake59 APPETIZERSVegetarian
Nonstick 
cooking spray
1 (8-ounce) 
package 
cream cheese, 
cut into cubes
¼ cup sour 
cream
½ cup frozen 
chopped 
spinach, 
thawed and 
drained
½ cup grated 
Swiss cheese
2 green onions, 
chopped
½ (11-ounce) 
can 
refrigerated 
breadstick 
dough
2 tablespoons 
melted butter
3 tablespoons 
grated 
Parmesan 
cheese320°F  
BakeSpinach Dip  
with Bread Knots
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 16 TO 21 MINUTES / SERVES 6
This wonderful appetizer features a creamy hot spinach dip 
topped with knots made out of breadstick dough. To serve, put 
the pan out on a trivet so your guests can pull off the bread 
knots and sop up the dip!
1. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan with nonstick cooking spray.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the cream cheese, sour cream, 
spinach, Swiss cheese, and green onions, and mix well. 
Spread into the prepared pan and bake for 8 minutes or 
until hot.
3. While the dip is baking, unroll six of the breadsticks and cut 
them in half crosswise to make 12 pieces.
4. Gently stretch each piece of dough and tie into a loose knot; 
tuck in the ends.
5. When the dip is hot, remove from the air fryer and carefully 
place each bread knot on top of the dip, covering the surface 
of the dip. Brush each knot with melted butter and sprinkle 
Parmesan cheese on top.
6. Bake for 8 to 13 minutes or until the bread knots are golden 
brown and cooked through.
Ingredient tip:  After the dip is done and eaten, you can coat the remain -
ing breadstick dough pieces in butter and cheese and bake in the air fryer 
at 300°F for about half the time recommended on the package. Serve 
with soup or freeze them to enjoy later.
Per serving: Calories: 264; Total Fat: 23g; Saturated Fat: 14g; Cholesterol: 68mg; 
Sodium: 270mg; Carbohydrates: 7g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 8g60 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKArancini
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 16 TO 22 MINUTES /  
MAKES 16 ARANCINI
Popular in Italy, arancini  are little balls of rice that are sometimes 
stuffed with cheese or another savory ﬁlling and deep fried. You 
can use leftover risotto to make this recipe, or use leftover rice 
from your local Chinese restaurant.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the rice, eggs, ½ cup of the bread 
crumbs, Parmesan cheese, and basil. Form this mixture into 
16 1½-inch balls.
2. Poke a hole in each of the balls with your finger and insert 
a mozzarella cube. Form the rice mixture firmly around 
the cheese.
3. On a shallow plate, combine the remaining 1 cup bread 
crumbs with the olive oil and mix well. Roll the rice balls in 
the bread crumbs to coat.
4. Cook the arancini in batches for 8 to 11 minutes or until 
golden brown.
Did You Know?  In Italy, arancini , also called supplì  or rice frittata, are sold 
on the street as a snack food. They are made much bigger in that country, 
about the size of an orange, and are often formed into a cone shape.
Per serving (2 arancini): Calories: 378; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 57mg; 
Sodium: 361mg; Carbohydrates: 53g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 16gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
2 cups cooked 
and cooled 
rice or leftover 
risotto
2 eggs, beaten
1½ cups panko 
bread crumbs, 
divided
½ cup grated 
Parmesan 
cheese
2 tablespoons 
minced fresh 
basil
16 ¾-inch cubes 
mozzarella 
cheese
2 tablespoons 
olive oil400°F  
Fry61 APPETIZERSFast, 
Vegetarian
8 slices French 
bread, ½ inch 
thick
2 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
1 cup shredded 
mozzarella 
cheese
½ cup basil 
pesto
1 cup chopped 
grape 
tomatoes
2 green onions, 
thinly sliced350°F  
BakePesto Bruschetta
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 4 TO 8 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A classic Italian sauce, pesto is made with fresh basil, olive oil, 
garlic, and Parmesan cheese. Here, the bright and assertive sauce 
is mixed with fresh tomatoes and slathered onto warm, crisp 
cheese bread.
1. Spread the bread with the butter and place butter-side up in 
the air fryer basket. Bake for 3 to 5 minutes or until the bread 
is light golden brown.
2. Remove the bread from the basket and top each piece with 
some of the cheese. Return to the basket in batches and bake 
until the cheese melts, about 1 to 3 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, combine the pesto, tomatoes, and green onions 
in a small bowl.
4. When the cheese has melted, remove the bread from the air 
fryer and place on a serving plate. Top each slice with some 
of the pesto mixture and serve.
Ingredient tip:  You can ﬁnd basil pesto and other types of pesto, 
 including a sauce made from sun-dried tomatoes, in the refrigerated 
 section or the pasta aisle of any supermarket.
Per serving: Calories: 462; Total Fat: 25g; Saturated Fat: 10g; Cholesterol: 38mg; 
Sodium: 822mg; Carbohydrates: 41g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 19g62 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFried Tortellini  
with Spicy Dipping Sauce
PREP TIME: 8 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Did you know that you can fry tortellini to produce a fancy appe -
tizer? Frozen tortellini can be found in most supermarkets in the 
freezer section. Serve with a spicy tomato sauce for dipping.
1. In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise and mustard and 
mix well. Set aside.
2. In a shallow bowl, beat the egg. In a separate bowl, combine 
the flour and oregano. In another bowl, combine the bread 
crumbs and olive oil, and mix well.
3. Drop the tortellini, a few at a time, into the egg, then into the 
flour, then into the egg again, and then into the bread crumbs 
to coat. Put into the air fryer basket, cooking in batches.
4. Air-fry for about 10 minutes, shaking halfway through the 
cooking time, or until the tortellini are crisp and golden 
brown on the outside. Serve with the mayonnaise.
Substitution tip:  You can also cook ravioli or even pierogies, which are 
large Eastern European dumplings, this way. The ravioli will take about 
15 minutes to cook, and the pierogies about 20 minutes, until hot.
Per serving: Calories: 698; Total Fat: 31g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 66mg; Sodium: 832mg; 
Carbohydrates: 88g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 18gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
¾ cup 
mayonnaise
2 tablespoons 
mustard
1 egg
½ cup ﬂour
½ teaspoon 
dried oregano
1½ cups bread 
crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
2 cups frozen 
cheese 
tortellini380°F  
Fry63 APPETIZERSFamily Favorite
3 slices ﬁrm 
white bread
⅔ cup ﬁnely 
chopped 
peeled and 
deveined raw 
shrimp
1 egg white
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
2 tablespoons 
cornstarch
¼ teaspoon 
ground ginger
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons 
olive oil350°F  
FryShrimp Toast
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 6 TO 12 MINUTES / MAKES 12 TOASTS
Shrimp toast is a classic appetizer popular in Chinese restaurants. 
In the traditional preparation, chopped shrimp is mixed with 
egg whites and seasonings and spread on toast, then deep-fried 
until crisp. The air fryer makes this recipe a breeze because you 
don’t have to mess with hot oil and turning the little toasts as 
they cook.
1. Cut the crusts from the bread using a sharp knife; crumble 
the crusts to make bread crumbs. Set aside.
2. In a small bowl, combine the shrimp, egg white, garlic, corn -
starch, ginger, salt, and pepper, and mix well.
3. Spread the shrimp mixture evenly on the bread to the edges. 
With a sharp knife, cut each slice into 4 strips.
4. Mix the bread crumbs with the olive oil and pat onto the 
shrimp mixture. Place the shrimp toasts in the air fryer 
basket in a single layer; you may need to cook in batches.
5. Air-fry for 3 to 6 minutes, until crisp and golden brown.
Substitution tip:  Substitute ﬁnely minced cooked crabmeat for the shrimp 
in this recipe, or use ground chicken or ground turkey instead.
Per serving (2 toasts): Calories: 121; Total Fat: 6g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 72mg; 
Sodium: 158mg; Carbohydrates: 7g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 9g64 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKBacon Tater Tots
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
This recipe is a perfect snack for tailgating before the big game! 
The combination of potatoes and bacon with cheese is the 
 ultimate comfort food.
1. Put the tater tots in the air fryer basket. Air-fry for 
10 minutes, shaking the basket halfway through the 
cooking time.
2. Meanwhile, cut the bacon into 1-inch pieces and shred 
the cheese.
3. Remove the tater tots from the air fryer basket and put into 
a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan. Top with the bacon and drizzle with 
the maple syrup. Air-fry for 5 minutes or until the tots and 
bacon are crisp.
4. Top with the cheese and air-fry for 2 minutes or until the 
cheese is melted.
Ingredient tip:  Only use the precooked bacon that doesn’t need refriger -
ation for this recipe. If you use regular bacon, it will give off too much fat 
and the tater tots will end up soggy, not crisp.
Per serving: Calories: 374; Total Fat: 22g; Saturated Fat: 9g; Cholesterol: 40mg; Sodium: 857mg; 
Carbohydrates: 34g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 13gFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
24 frozen 
tater tots
6 slices 
precooked 
bacon
2 tablespoons 
maple syrup
1 cup shredded 
Cheddar 
cheese400°F  
Fry65 APPETIZERSFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
4 frozen hash 
brown patties
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
⅓ cup chopped 
cherry 
tomatoes
3 tablespoons 
diced fresh 
mozzarella
2 tablespoons 
grated 
Parmesan 
cheese
1 tablespoon 
balsamic 
vinegar
1 tablespoon 
minced fresh 
basil400°F  
FryHash Brown Bruschetta
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 6 TO 8 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Bruschetta, of Italian origin, is made of crisp toast piled with 
ingredients such as chopped tomatoes and herbs. In this recipe, 
crisp hash brown patties stand in for the toast. Frozen hash 
brown patties cook perfectly in the air fryer, with very little fat!
1. Place the hash brown patties in the air fryer in a single layer. 
Air-fry for 6 to 8 minutes or until the potatoes are crisp, hot, 
and golden brown.
2. Meanwhile, combine the olive oil, tomatoes, mozzarella, 
Parmesan, vinegar, and basil in a small bowl.
3. When the potatoes are done, carefully remove from the 
basket and arrange on a serving plate. Top with the tomato 
mixture and serve.
Did You Know?  Bruschetta  comes from the word that means “to roast 
over coals,” and refers to the toasted bread. It has many incarnations, 
including a recipe made by simply rubbing the warm little toasts with a 
cut clove of fresh garlic.
Per serving: Calories: 123; Total Fat: 6g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 6mg; Sodium: 81mg; 
Carbohydrates: 14g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 5g66 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKWaffle Fry Poutine
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 TO 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Poutine is a traditional French Canadian recipe of fries topped 
with cheese curds and beef gravy. Of course, cooking it in the air 
fryer helps cut the calories. Other healthy upgrades include using 
grated cheese, chicken gravy, and incorporating veggies!
1. Toss the waffle fries with olive oil and place in the air fryer 
basket. Air-fry for 10 to 12 minutes or until the fries are crisp 
and light golden brown, shaking the basket halfway through 
the cooking time.
2. Transfer the fries to a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan and top with the 
pepper, green onions, and cheese. Air-fry for 3 minutes until 
the vegetables are crisp and tender.
3. Remove the pan from the air fryer and drizzle the gravy 
over the fries. Air-fry for 2 minutes or until the gravy is hot. 
Serve immediately.
Substitution tip:  You can make this recipe with regular frozen French 
fries as well, but those may take a few minutes longer to cook. Use your 
 favorite cheese in this hearty recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 347; Total Fat: 19g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 26mg; Sodium: 435mg; 
Carbohydrates: 33g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 12gFamily Favorite
2 cups frozen 
waffle cut 
fries
2 teaspoons 
olive oil
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
2 green onions, 
sliced
1 cup shredded 
Swiss cheese
½ cup bottled 
chicken gravy380°F  
Fry67 APPETIZERSFamily Favorite
1 pound sirloin 
tip, cut into 
1-inch cubes
1 cup cheese 
pasta sauce 
(from a 
16-ounce jar)
1½ cups soft 
bread crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram360°F  
BakeCrispy Beef Cubes
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 12 TO 16 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Beef cooks beautifully in the air fryer. This unusual method of 
dipping the beef in a cheese sauce and rolling it in bread crumbs 
makes a crisp little mouthful with tender and juicy insides.
1. In a medium bowl, toss the beef with the pasta sauce to coat.
2. In a shallow bowl, combine the bread crumbs, oil, and 
marjoram, and mix well. Drop the beef cubes, one at a time, 
into the bread crumb mixture to coat thoroughly.
3. Cook the beef in two batches for 6 to 8 minutes, shaking the 
basket once during cooking time, until the beef is at least 
145°F and the outside is crisp and brown. Serve with tooth -
picks or little forks.
Cooking tip:  You can use the remaining pasta sauce to make a quick 
lunch. Just cook a cup or two of pasta while you heat the sauce in a 
saucepan. Combine and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 554; Total Fat: 22g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 112mg; 
Sodium: 1,832mg; Carbohydrates: 43g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 44g68 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKBuffalo Chicken Bites
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 14 TO 18 MINUTES / SERVES 4
These little bites are packed full of ﬂavor. The tender chicken is 
enveloped in a spicy sauce, then coated with crisp bread crumbs. 
A cool dipping sauce provides the perfect accompaniment.
1. In a small bowl, combine the sour cream, salad dressing, blue 
cheese, and celery, and set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken pieces and Buffalo 
wing sauce and stir to coat. Let sit while you get the bread 
crumbs ready.
3. Combine the bread crumbs and olive oil on a plate and mix.
4. Coat the chicken pieces in the bread crumb mixture, patting 
each piece so the crumbs adhere.
5. Air-fry in batches for 7 to 9 minutes, shaking the basket once, 
until the chicken is cooked to 165°F and is golden brown. 
Serve with the blue cheese sauce on the side.
Did You Know?  Buffalo chicken wings were ﬁrst invented in the Anchor 
Bar in Buffalo, New York, when the owner needed to serve a lot of 
appetizers in a hurry. They became an immediate hit and the ﬂavor—a 
combination of a spicy hot sauce with cool blue cheese—is now a classic.
Per serving: Calories: 467; Total Fat: 23g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 119mg; Sodium: 821mg; 
Carbohydrates: 22g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 43gFamily Favorite
⅔ cup sour 
cream
¼ cup creamy 
blue cheese 
salad dressing
¼ cup crumbled 
blue cheese
1 celery 
stalk, ﬁnely 
chopped
1 pound chicken 
tenders, cut 
into thirds 
crosswise
3 tablespoons 
Buffalo 
chicken wing 
sauce
1 cup panko 
bread crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil350°F  
Fry69 APPETIZERSFamily Favorite
8 chicken wings
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
⅓ cup brown 
sugar
2 tablespoons 
honey
⅓ cup apple 
cider vinegar
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
½ teaspoon 
dried red 
pepper ﬂakes
¼ teaspoon salt390°F  
BakeSweet and Hot 
Chicken Wings
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES / MAKES 16 WINGS
Chicken wings make a great appetizer during a big game or 
when you’re grilling outside. The air fryer makes the wings crispy 
and tender, and the sweet and hot sauce provides the perfect 
ﬁnishing touch.
1. Cut each chicken wing into three pieces. You’ll have one large 
piece, one medium piece, and one small end. Discard the 
small end or save it for stock.
2. In a medium bowl, toss the wings with the oil. Transfer to the 
air fryer basket and cook for 20 minutes, shaking the basket 
twice while cooking.
3. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the sugar, honey,  
vinegar, red pepper flakes, and salt, and whisk until combined.
4. Remove the wings from the air fryer basket and put into a 
6-by-6-by-2-inch pan. Pour the sauce over the wings and toss.
5. Return to the air fryer and cook for 5 minutes or until the 
wings are glazed.
Ingredient tip:  You can sometimes buy “chicken drummettes” in the meat 
section. They are made from the meaty part of the chicken wing. If you 
want to use those instead of the cut-up whole wings, use about 10 in 
this recipe.
Per serving (4 wings): Calories: 438; Total Fat: 16g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 151mg; 
Sodium: 299mg; Carbohydrates: 21g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 49g5
FISH AND SEAFOoD
72 Quick Paella
73 Crab Ratatouille
74 Seafood Tacos
75 Crispy Herbed Salmon
76 Asian Steamed Tuna77 Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry
78 Scallops and Spring Veggies
79 Snapper Scampi
80 Coconut Shrimp
81 Fish and Chips72 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKQuick Paella
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 13 TO 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Paella is a Spanish one-dish meal made of rice, vegetables, 
and seafood. Using a few convenience foods, it’s a snap to pull 
together in the air fryer. Serve it with a glass of rosé wine and a 
fruit salad.
1. In a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, combine the rice, artichoke hearts, 
vegetable broth, turmeric, and thyme, and stir gently.
2. Place in the air fryer and bake for 8 to 9 minutes or until the 
rice is hot.
3. Remove from the air fryer and gently stir in the shrimp, peas, 
and tomato. Cook for 5 to 8 minutes or until the shrimp and 
peas are hot and the paella is bubbling.
Substitution tip:  If you like intensely ﬂavored food, try using marinated 
artichoke hearts in this recipe. Be sure you taste the marinade ﬁrst! For 
even more ﬂavor, use the liquid in the jar of artichokes in place of the 
vegetable broth.
Per serving: Calories: 345; Total Fat: 1g; Saturated Fat: 0g; Cholesterol: 144mg; Sodium: 491mg; 
Carbohydrates: 66g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 18gGluten-Free
1 (10-ounce) 
package 
frozen cooked 
rice, thawed
1 (6-ounce) jar 
artichoke 
hearts, 
drained and 
chopped
¼ cup vegetable 
broth
½ teaspoon 
turmeric
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
1 cup frozen 
cooked small 
shrimp
½ cup frozen 
baby peas
1 tomato, diced340°F  
Bake73 FISH AND  SEAFOODGluten-Free
1½ cups peeled, 
cubed 
eggplant
1 onion, 
chopped
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
2 large 
tomatoes, 
chopped
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1½ cups cooked 
crabmeat, 
picked over400°F  
RoastCrab Ratatouille
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 TO 14 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Ratatouille is traditionally made from stewing several different 
kinds of vegetables and fresh herbs; with the air fryer, you can 
make it in a fraction of the time. The addition of crab to this 
 delicate mixture makes it elegant.
1. Combine the eggplant, onion, bell pepper, tomatoes, olive oil, 
thyme, and basil in a 6-inch metal bowl. Sprinkle with salt 
and pepper.
2. Roast for 9 minutes, then remove the bowl from the air fryer 
and stir.
3. Add the crabmeat and roast for 2 to 5 minutes or until 
the ratatouille is bubbling and the vegetables are tender. 
Serve immediately.
Ingredient tip:  You can buy crabmeat in a can, or you can ﬁnd tubs of 
shelled crab at the ﬁsh counter of many large supermarkets.
Per serving: Calories: 147; Total Fat: 5g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 71mg; Sodium: 244mg; 
Carbohydrates: 10g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 16g74 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSeafood Tacos
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 9 TO 12 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Seafood tacos are popular in California, where fresh ﬁsh is caught 
every day off the coast. This simple recipe is full of ﬂavor and 
texture and perfect for a warm summer evening.
1. Brush the fish with olive oil and sprinkle with 1 tablespoon 
of the lemon juice. Place in the air fryer basket and air-fry 
for 9 to 12 minutes or until the fish just flakes when tested 
with a fork.
2. Meanwhile, combine remaining 2 tablespoons lemon juice, 
cabbage, salsa, and sour cream in a medium bowl.
3. When the fish is cooked, remove from the air fryer basket 
and break into large pieces.
4. Let everyone assemble their own taco combining the fish, 
tortillas, cabbage mixture, and avocados.
Substitution tip:  You can use scallops, shrimp, lobster tails, or a com -
bination of seafood in this recipe. Cook until done in the air fryer, then 
assemble the tacos with the remaining ingredients.
Per serving: Calories: 491; Total Fat: 29g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 71mg; Sodium: 323mg; 
Carbohydrates: 29g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 31gFamily Favorite
1 pound white 
ﬁsh ﬁllets, 
such as 
snapper
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
3 tablespoons 
lemon juice, 
divided
1½ cups 
chopped red 
cabbage
½ cup salsa
⅓ cup sour 
cream
6 soft ﬂour 
tortillas
2 avocados, 
peeled and 
chopped400°F  
Fry75 FISH AND  SEAFOODFast
4 (6-ounce) 
skinless 
salmon ﬁllets
3 tablespoons 
honey 
mustard
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
¼ cup panko 
bread crumbs
⅓ cup crushed 
potato chips
2 tablespoons 
olive oil320°F  
BakeCrispy Herbed Salmon
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 9 TO 12 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Healthy salmon makes a great ingredient for air frying. In 
this recipe, the crispy crust—a mix of potato chips and bread 
crumbs—perfectly contrasts the tender and moist ﬁsh.
1. Place the salmon on a plate. In a small bowl, combine 
the mustard, thyme, and basil, and spread evenly over 
the salmon.
2. In another small bowl, combine the bread crumbs and 
potato chips and mix well. Drizzle in the olive oil and mix 
until combined.
3. Place the salmon in the air fryer basket and gently but firmly 
press the bread crumb mixture onto the top of each fillet.
4. Bake for 9 to 12 minutes or until the salmon reaches at least 
145°F on a meat thermometer and the topping is browned 
and crisp.
Ingredient tip:  Panko bread crumbs are much crisper than regular bread 
crumbs, and they have a different texture. You can ﬁnd them in the baking 
aisle of most supermarkets. If you can’t ﬁnd them, regular bread crumbs 
will work ﬁne, but reduce the amount to ¼ cup.
Per serving: Calories: 373; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 75mg; Sodium: 218mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 34g76 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKAsian Steamed Tuna
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 TO 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Steaming tuna produces very delicate results. The ﬂavorful Asian 
ingredients featured here include lemongrass, soy sauce, sesame 
oil, rice wine vinegar, and fresh ginger.
1. Place the tuna steaks on a plate.
2. In a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, sesame oil, rice wine 
vinegar, and ginger, and mix well. Pour this mixture over the 
tuna and marinate for 10 minutes. Rub the soy sauce mixture 
gently into both sides of the tuna. Sprinkle with the pepper.
3. Place the lemongrass on the air fryer basket and top with the 
steaks. Put the lemon juice and 1 tablespoon water in the pan 
below the basket.
4. Steam the fish for 8 to 10 minutes or until the tuna registers 
at least 145°F. Discard the lemongrass and serve the tuna.
Air Fryer tip:  Keep an eye on the liquid in the pan below the air fryer 
basket when this recipe is cooking. The tuna will give off liquid as it cooks, 
and you don’t want the pan to overﬂow.
Per serving: Calories: 292; Total Fat: 14g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 44mg; Sodium: 513mg; 
Carbohydrates: 1g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 38gFamily Favorite
4 small tuna 
steaks
2 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce
2 teaspoons 
sesame oil
2 teaspoons rice 
wine vinegar
1 teaspoon 
grated fresh 
ginger
⅛ teaspoon 
pepper
1 stalk 
lemongrass, 
bent in half
3 tablespoons 
lemon juice390°F  
Steam77 FISH AND  SEAFOODFamily Favorite
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
1 cup green 
beans, cut 
into 2-inch 
pieces
1 onion, sliced
2 cloves garlic, 
sliced
2 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce
1 tablespoon 
honey
½ pound fresh 
tuna, cubed380°F  
Stir-FryTuna Veggie Stir-Fry
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 7 TO 12 MINUTES / SERVES 4
It’s easy to make stir-fry recipes in the air fryer. You just don’t 
have to stir them much! Just open the air fryer, remove the 
 basket, and stir to combine. Serve over hot rice.
1. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the olive oil, pepper, green 
beans, onion, and garlic.
2. Cook in the air fryer for 4 to 6 minutes, stirring once, until 
crisp and tender. Add soy sauce, honey, and tuna, and stir.
3. Cook for another 3 to 6 minutes, stirring once, until the tuna 
is cooked as desired. Tuna can be served rare or medium-rare, 
or you can cook it until well done.
Substitution tip:  You can use any vegetable you’d like in this easy recipe. 
Make it even easier by using about half a bag of frozen stir-fry vegetables. 
Or, use chopped or sliced zucchini or yellow summer squash in place of 
the red bell pepper or green beans.
Per serving: Calories: 187; Total Fat: 8g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 18mg; Sodium: 333mg; 
Carbohydrates: 12g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 17g78 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKScallops and Spring Veggies
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 7 TO 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Scallops cook in minutes, which makes them ideal for a quick 
dinner. When paired with bright green vegetables, they make 
an elegant meal. Even with very little preparation, scallops taste 
mild and sweet.
1. Place the asparagus and sugar snap peas in the air fryer 
basket. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the vegetables are 
just starting to get tender.
2. Meanwhile, check the scallops for a small muscle attached 
to the side, and pull it off and discard.
3. In a medium bowl, toss the scallops with the lemon juice, 
olive oil, thyme, salt, and pepper. Place into the air fryer 
basket on top of the vegetables.
4. Steam for 5 to 7 minutes, tossing the basket once during 
cooking time, until the scallops are just firm when tested 
with your finger and are opaque in the center, and the 
vegetables are tender. Serve immediately.
Air Fryer tip:  If you have an air fryer that comes with a separator, use 
that to make this meal even faster. Cook the scallops on one side and the 
 vegetables on the other, for about 5 to 6 minutes until done.
Per serving: Calories: 162; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: <1g; Cholesterol: 37mg; Sodium: 225mg; 
Carbohydrates: 10g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 22gGluten-Free
½ pound 
asparagus, 
ends trimmed, 
cut into 2-inch 
pieces
1 cup sugar 
snap peas
1 pound sea 
scallops
1 tablespoon 
lemon juice
2 teaspoons 
olive oil
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper400°F  
Fry79 FISH AND  SEAFOODFast,  
Gluten-Free
4 (6-ounce) 
skinless 
snapper or 
arctic char 
ﬁllets
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
3 tablespoons 
lemon juice, 
divided
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons 
butter
2 cloves garlic, 
minced380°F  
GrillSnapper Scampi
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 TO 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
“Scampi” means two things: large shrimp or a dish that com -
bines shrimp with lemon, butter, and garlic. Here, you’ll use those 
ingredients to make a simple dish with red snapper or arctic 
char ﬁllets.
1. Rub the fish fillets with olive oil and 1 tablespoon of the 
lemon juice. Sprinkle with the basil, salt, and pepper, and 
place in the air fryer basket.
2. Grill the fish for 7 to 8 minutes or until the fish just flakes 
when tested with a fork. Remove the fish from the basket 
and put on a serving plate. Cover to keep warm.
3. In a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, combine the butter, remaining 
2 tablespoons lemon juice, and garlic. Cook in the air fryer 
for 1 to 2 minutes or until the garlic is sizzling. Pour this 
mixture over the fish and serve.
Did You Know?  You can buy bottled lemon and lime juice at the super -
market, but for recipes such as this one, where the ﬂavor is so important, 
squeeze the juice from a lemon yourself just before you make the recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 265; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 109mg; Sodium: 215mg; 
Carbohydrates: 1g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 39g80 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite
1 (8-ounce) 
can crushed 
pineapple
½ cup sour 
cream
¼ cup pineapple 
preserves
2 egg whites
⅔ cup 
cornstarch
⅔ cup 
sweetened 
coconut
1 cup panko 
bread crumbs
1 pound 
uncooked 
large shrimp, 
thawed 
if frozen, 
deveined and 
shelled
Olive oil for 
misting400°F  
FryCoconut Shrimp
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 TO 7 MINUTES / SERVES 4
This sounds decadent: tender shrimp coated in a bread crumb 
and coconut mixture, air fried to crisp perfection and served with 
a pineapple dipping sauce. It’s the perfect snack but can also 
anchor the dinner plate when paired with rice and a green salad.
1. Drain the crushed pineapple well, reserving the juice.
2. In a small bowl, combine the pineapple, sour cream, and 
preserves, and mix well. Set aside.
3. In a shallow bowl, beat the egg whites with 2 tablespoons of 
the reserved pineapple liquid. Place the cornstarch on a plate. 
Combine the coconut and bread crumbs on another plate.
4. Dip the shrimp into the cornstarch, shake it off, then dip into 
the egg white mixture and finally into the coconut mixture.
5. Place the shrimp in the air fryer basket and mist with oil. 
Air-fry for 5 to 7 minutes or until the shrimp are crisp and 
golden brown.
Did You Know?  Shrimp are graded by how many there are in a pound. 
Large shrimp are usually 26 to 30 per pound, medium shrimp are 36 to 
45 per pound. You can buy them shelled, deveined, and ready to cook, 
or fully cooked.
Per serving: Calories: 524; Total Fat: 14g; Saturated Fat: 9g; Cholesterol: 251mg; Sodium: 251mg; 
Carbohydrates: 65g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 33g81 FISH AND  SEAFOODFish and Chips
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
In British vernacular, “chips” means French fries, not potato chips. 
This classic recipe is easy to make in the air fryer, especially if you 
have one with a separator. If you don’t, cook the potatoes ﬁrst, 
and keep them warm in a low oven while the ﬁsh fries. Enjoy this 
recipe with lots of tartar sauce.
1. Pat the fish fillets dry and sprinkle with salt, pepper, and 
thyme. Set aside.
2. In a shallow bowl, beat the egg white until foamy. In another 
bowl, combine the potato chips and 1 tablespoon of olive oil 
and mix until combined.
3. Dip the fish fillets into the egg white, then into the crushed 
potato chip mixture to coat.
4. Toss the fresh potato strips with the remaining 1 tablespoon 
olive oil.
5. Use your separator to divide the air fryer basket in half, then 
fry the chips and fish. The chips will take about 20 minutes; 
the fish will take about 10 to 12 minutes to cook.
Ingredient tip:  To make tartar sauce, combine ½ cup mayonnaise 
with 3 tablespoons chopped sweet pickles, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 
and 1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley.
Per serving: Calories: 374; Total Fat: 16g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 62mg; Sodium: 254mg; 
Carbohydrates: 38g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 30gFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
4 (4-ounce) ﬁsh 
ﬁllets
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
1 egg white
¾ cup crushed 
potato chips
2 tablespoons 
olive oil, 
divided
2 russet 
potatoes, 
peeled and 
cut into strips400°F  
Fry6
POULTRY
84 Roasted Veggie Chicken Salad
85 Asian Turkey Meatballs
86 Stir-Fried Chicken with  
Pineapple
87 Sweet-and-Sour Drumsticks
88 Chicken Satay
89 Orange Curried Chicken Stir-Fry
90 Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry
91 Chicken Fajitas92 Tex-Mex Turkey Burgers
93 Barbecued Chicken Thighs
94 Buttermilk Fried Chicken
95 Garlic-Roasted Chicken  
with Creamer Potatoes
97 Chicken Cordon Bleu
98 Ham and Cheese Stuffed  
Chicken Burgers
99 Chicken Tenders with Veggies84 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKRoasted Veggie 
Chicken Salad
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 13 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Have you ever eaten a warm chicken salad? It has more ﬂavor 
than chicken salad served cold, and is much quicker to prepare. 
This one is full of colorful ingredients.
1. Place the chicken, onion, pepper, and squash in the air fryer 
basket. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the honey mustard salad 
dressing, add the thyme, and toss.
2. Roast for 10 to 13 minutes or until the chicken is 165°F 
on a food thermometer, tossing the food once during 
cooking time.
3. Transfer the chicken and vegetables to a bowl and mix in the 
remaining 3 tablespoons of honey mustard salad dressing, 
the mayonnaise, and lemon juice. Serve on lettuce leaves, 
if desired.
Variation tip:  You can let this salad cool down and use it as a ﬁlling for 
chicken salad sandwiches. Use ciabatta rolls, croissants, or pita bread.
Per serving: Calories: 494; Total Fat: 23g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 159mg; 
Sodium: 439mg; Carbohydrates: 18g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 51gFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
3 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts, cut 
into 1-inch 
cubes
1 small red 
onion, sliced
1 orange bell 
pepper, sliced
1 cup sliced 
yellow 
summer 
squash
4 tablespoons 
honey 
mustard salad 
dressing, 
divided
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ cup 
mayonnaise
2 tablespoons 
lemon juice400°F  
Roast85 POULTRYFamily Favorite
2 tablespoons 
peanut oil, 
divided
1 small onion, 
minced
¼ cup water 
chestnuts, 
ﬁnely 
chopped
½ teaspoon 
ground ginger
2 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce
¼ cup panko 
bread crumbs
1 egg, beaten
1 pound ground 
turkey400°F  
BakeAsian Turkey Meatballs
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 TO 14 MINUTES / SERVES 4
The Asian ﬂavors make these turkey meatballs sing. To make 
tender meatballs, combine all of the ingredients then add the 
meat last.
1. In a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, combine the peanut oil and onion. 
Cook for 1 to 2 minutes or until crisp and tender. Transfer the 
onions to a medium bowl.
2. Add the water chestnuts, ground ginger, soy sauce, and bread 
crumbs to the onions and mix well. Add egg and stir well. 
Mix in the ground turkey until combined.
3. Form the mixture into 1-inch meatballs. Drizzle the remaining  
1 tablespoon of oil over the meatballs.
4. Bake the meatballs in the 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan in batches for 
10 to 12 minutes or until they are 165°F on a meat thermometer.
Variation tip:  You can add a sauce if you’d like. Combine 2 tablespoons 
cornstarch, 1 cup chicken broth, and ½ cup pineapple juice. Put the 
meatballs in a 6-inch bowl and add the sauce. Bake the mixture for 4 to 
6 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened. Serve over hot rice.
Per serving: Calories: 336; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 157mg; Sodium: 487mg; 
Carbohydrates: 8g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 34g86 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKStir-Fried Chicken  
with Pineapple
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 TO 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Stir-fried chicken is usually coated with a mixture of cornstarch 
and egg white. This technique is called “velveting” and it makes 
chicken that is exceptionally tender. The chicken is combined with 
onion and pineapple in this easy recipe. Serve over hot rice.
1. Cut the chicken breasts into cubes and put into a medium 
bowl. Add the cornstarch and egg white and mix together 
thoroughly. Set aside.
2. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the oil and the onion. Cook 
in the air fryer for 2 to 3 minutes or until the onion is crisp 
and tender.
3. Drain the chicken and add to the bowl with the onions; 
stir well. Cook for 7 to 9 minutes or until the chicken is 
 thoroughly cooked to 165°F.
4. Stir the chicken mixture, then add the pepper, pineapple 
tidbits, 3 tablespoons of the reserved pineapple liquid, and 
the soy sauce, and stir again. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until 
the food is cooked and the sauce is slightly thickened.
Substitution tip:  You can use boneless, skinless chicken thighs in this 
recipe in place of the chicken breasts. Cook the thighs for 8 to 10 minutes 
until the chicken is 165°F on a meat thermometer.
Per serving: Calories: 291; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 101mg; Sodium: 427mg; 
Carbohydrates: 16g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 35gFamily Favorite
2 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts
2 tablespoons 
cornstarch
1 egg white, 
lightly beaten
1 tablespoon 
olive or 
peanut oil
1 onion, sliced
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
1 (8-ounce) can 
pineapple 
tidbits, 
drained, juice 
reserved
2 tablespoons 
reduced-
sodium soy 
sauce370°F  
Stir-Fry87 POULTRYFamily Favorite
6 chicken 
drumsticks
3 tablespoons 
lemon juice, 
divided
3 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce, 
divided
1 tablespoon 
peanut oil
3 tablespoons 
honey
3 tablespoons 
brown sugar
2 tablespoons 
ketchup
¼ cup pineapple 
juice350°F  
BakeSweet-and-Sour Drumsticks
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 23 TO 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Cooking chicken drumsticks in the air fryer is a two-part process: 
The meat is ﬁrst cooked until done, then coated with a sweet-
and-sour sauce and cooked until glazed. The extra step creates 
an extra special dish.
1. Sprinkle the drumsticks with 1 tablespoon of lemon juice and 
1 tablespoon of soy sauce. Place in the air fryer basket and 
drizzle with the peanut oil. Toss to coat. Bake for 18 minutes 
or until the chicken is almost done.
2. Meanwhile, in a 6-inch bowl combine the remaining 
2  tablespoons of lemon juice, the remaining 2 tablespoons of 
soy sauce, honey, brown sugar, ketchup, and pineapple juice.
3. Add the cooked chicken to the bowl and stir to coat the 
chicken well with the sauce.
4. Place the metal bowl in the basket. Cook for 5 to 7 minutes 
or until the chicken is glazed and registers 165°F on a 
meat thermometer.
Substitution tip:  You can cook boneless, skinless chicken breasts or thighs 
using this method. Reduce the cooking time to 10 to 15 minutes for the 
chicken breasts and 11 to 16 minutes for the chicken thighs.
Per serving: Calories: 242; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 61mg; Sodium: 804mg; 
Carbohydrates: 25g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 20g88 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKChicken Satay
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 12 TO 18 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Satay is an Indonesian dish made of meat, usually chicken, that 
is skewered and grilled with a spicy peanut sauce. The grilled 
skewers are then served with additional peanut sauce for dipping.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the peanut butter, chicken broth, 
soy sauce, lemon juice, garlic, olive oil, and curry powder, and 
mix well with a wire whisk until smooth. Remove 2 table -
spoons of this mixture to a small bowl. Put remaining sauce 
into a serving bowl and set aside.
2. Add the chicken tenders to the bowl with the 2 tablespoons 
sauce and stir to coat. Let stand for a few minutes to mari -
nate, then run a bamboo skewer through each chicken 
tender lengthwise.
3. Put the chicken in the air fryer basket and cook in batches for 
6 to 9 minutes or until the chicken reaches 165°F on a meat 
thermometer. Serve the chicken with the reserved sauce.
Air Fryer tip:  The air fryer may smoke a bit as some of the sauce drips 
off the chicken. You can add a tablespoon or two of water to the pan 
attached to the basket if you’d like to reduce smoke.
Per serving: Calories: 448; Total Fat: 28g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 97mg; 
Sodium: 1,004mg; Carbohydrates: 8g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 46gFamily Favorite
½ cup crunchy 
peanut butter
⅓ cup chicken 
broth
3 tablespoons 
low-sodium 
soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
lemon juice
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
1 teaspoon curry 
powder
1 pound chicken 
tenders390°F  
Grill89 POULTRYFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
¾ pound bone -
less, skinless 
chicken 
thighs, cut 
into 1-inch 
pieces
1 yellow bell 
pepper, cut 
into 1½-inch 
pieces
1 small red 
onion, sliced
Olive oil for 
misting
¼ cup chicken 
stock
2 tablespoons 
honey
¼ cup orange 
juice
1 tablespoon 
cornstarch
2 to 3 teaspoons 
curry powder370°F  
Stir-FryOrange Curried  
Chicken Stir-Fry
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 16 TO 19 MINUTES / SERVES 4
This easy stir-fry recipe is ﬂavored with orange juice and curry 
powder, so it’s sweet and spicy. For a tasty, quick dinner, serve 
over hot cooked rice, along with a green salad.
1. Put the chicken thighs, pepper, and red onion in the air fryer 
basket and mist with olive oil.
2. Cook for 12 to 14 minutes or until the chicken is cooked to 
165°F, shaking the basket halfway through cooking time.
3. Remove the chicken and vegetables from the air fryer basket 
and set aside.
4. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the stock, honey, orange 
juice, cornstarch, and curry powder, and mix well. Add the 
chicken and vegetables, stir, and put the bowl in the basket.
5. Return the basket to the air fryer and cook for 2 minutes. 
Remove and stir, then cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the 
sauce is thickened and bubbly.
Did You Know?  Curry powder isn’t one single spice, but a combination of 
many spices. In India, each family makes their own unique blend.
Per serving: Calories: 230; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 76mg; Sodium: 124mg; 
Carbohydrates: 16g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 26g90 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSpicy Chicken Stir-Fry
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 13 TO 16 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A stir-fry doesn’t have to taste Asian! This colorful and fun 
recipe uses spicy Tex-Mex ﬂavors to create a dinner that’s ready 
in minutes.
1. Cut the chicken breasts into 1-inch cubes. Put the cornstarch 
on a shallow plate and toss the chicken in it to coat. Set the 
chicken aside.
2. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the oil and onion. Cook for 
2 to 3 minutes or until crisp and tender.
3. Add the chicken to the bowl. Cook for 7 to 8 minutes or until 
almost cooked. Stir in the jalapeño pepper, red bell pepper, 
corn, and salsa.
4. Cook for 4 to 5 minutes or until the chicken is cooked to 
165°F and the vegetables are crisp and tender. Serve over 
hot rice.
Ingredient tip:  Salsa can be mild or hot, depending on the type of pep -
pers it contains. The hotter peppers are habanero and serrano. Jalapeño 
peppers are milder. Read labels carefully to make sure you are buying the 
strength of salsa you prefer.
Per serving: Calories: 351; Total Fat: 16g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 101mg; Sodium: 296mg; 
Carbohydrates: 18g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 35gGluten-Free
2 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts
2 tablespoons 
cornstarch
2 tablespoons 
peanut oil
1 onion, sliced
1 jalapeño 
pepper, sliced
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
1 cup frozen 
corn
½ cup salsa370°F  
Stir-Fry91 POULTRYFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
4 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
breasts, sliced
1 small red 
onion, sliced
2 red bell 
peppers, 
sliced
½ cup spicy 
ranch salad 
dressing, 
divided
½ teaspoon 
dried oregano
8 corn tortillas
2 cups torn 
butter lettuce
2 avocados, 
peeled and 
chopped380°F  
GrillChicken Fajitas
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 14 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Fajitas are made with grilled chicken and veggies, tossed with 
a spicy dressing and served with avocados and lettuce in a soft 
corn tortilla. You can adjust the heat of this dish with the spice 
level of the salsa you choose.
1. Place the chicken, onion, and pepper in the air fryer basket. 
Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the salad dressing and add the 
oregano. Toss to combine.
2. Grill for 10 to 14 minutes or until the chicken is 165°F on a 
food thermometer.
3. Transfer the chicken and vegetables to a bowl and toss with 
the remaining salad dressing.
4. Serve the chicken mixture with the tortillas, lettuce, and 
avocados and let everyone make their own creations.
Substitution tip:  You could use sliced boneless, skinless chicken thighs 
instead of the chicken breasts in this recipe. The cooking time will be a 
bit longer: 12 to 17 minutes. Make sure you check the doneness with a 
meat thermometer.
Per serving: Calories: 783; Total Fat: 38g; Saturated Fat: 9g; Cholesterol: 202mg; 
Sodium: 397mg; Carbohydrates: 39g; Fiber: 12g; Protein: 72g92 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKTex-Mex Turkey Burgers
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 14 TO 16 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Turkey burgers are lower in fat than burgers made from ground 
beef. But for food safety reasons, they must be cooked until well-
done, to 165°F. In this recipe, bland turkey is made memorable 
with offbeat ﬂavors!
1. In a medium bowl, combine the tortilla chips, egg, salsa, 
cheese, salt, and pepper, and mix well.
2. Add the turkey and mix gently but thoroughly with 
clean hands.
3. Form the meat mixture into patties about ½ inch thick. Make 
an indentation in the center of each patty with your thumb 
so the burgers don’t puff up while cooking.
4. Brush the patties on both sides with the olive oil and sprinkle 
with paprika.
5. Put in the air fryer basket. Grill for 14 to 16 minutes or until 
the meat registers at least 165°F.
Substitution tip:  You can make this recipe with ground chicken or ground 
pork if you’d like. Either would work well with the ﬂavors and textures.
Per serving: Calories: 354; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 166mg; Sodium: 337mg; 
Carbohydrates: 11g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 36gFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
⅓ cup ﬁnely 
crushed corn 
tortilla chips
1 egg, beaten
¼ cup salsa
⅓ cup shredded 
pepper Jack 
cheese
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound ground 
turkey
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 teaspoon 
paprika330°F  
Grill93 POULTRYFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
6 boneless, skin -
less chicken 
thighs
¼ cup store-
bought 
gluten-free 
barbecue 
sauce
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
2 tablespoons 
lemon juice380°F  
GrillBarbecued Chicken Thighs
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 TO 18 MINUTES / SERVES 4
There are many wonderful barbecue sauces, but even the best 
ones can use a little more oomph. Do a taste test with a few 
brands and see which one you like best. They can be spicy or 
mellow, sweet or hot, thick or thin. Then punch up the ﬂavor 
with such ingredients as garlic, herbs, or spices.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken, barbecue sauce, 
cloves, and lemon juice, and mix well. Let marinate for 
10 minutes.
2. Remove the chicken thighs from the bowl and shake off 
excess sauce. Put the chicken pieces in the air fryer, leaving 
a bit of space between each one.
3. Grill for 15 to 18 minutes or until the chicken is 165°F on an 
instant-read meat thermometer.
Air Fryer tip:  Because the sauce will drip off the chicken as it cooks, the 
air fryer may smoke a bit. That’s okay; just check the chicken about half -
way through the cooking time to make sure it isn’t burning.
Per serving: Calories: 351; Total Fat: 13g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 151mg; Sodium: 323mg; 
Carbohydrates: 6g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 49g94 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKButtermilk Fried Chicken
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 TO 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Fried chicken is perhaps the most decadent of fried foods. 
But many people don’t make it at home because oil splatters 
everywhere when you fry chicken. And it’s just not healthy to 
eat it too often. The air fryer comes to the  rescue with this 
 wonderful adaptation.
1. Pat the chicken dry. In a shallow bowl, combine the flour, 
paprika, salt, and pepper.
2. In another bowl, beat the buttermilk with the eggs 
until smooth.
3. In a third bowl, combine the olive oil and bread crumbs 
until mixed.
4. Dredge the chicken in the flour, then into the eggs to coat, 
and finally into the bread crumbs, patting the crumbs firmly 
onto the chicken skin.
5. Air-fry the chicken for 20 to 25 minutes, turning each piece 
over halfway during cooking, until the meat registers 165°F 
on a meat thermometer and the chicken is brown and crisp. 
Let cool for 5 minutes, then serve.
Variation tip:  You can marinate the chicken in buttermilk and spices 
such as cayenne pepper, chili powder, or garlic powder overnight before 
you cook it. This makes the chicken even more moist and tender and 
adds ﬂavor.
Per serving: Calories: 644; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 214mg; 
Sodium: 495mg; Carbohydrates: 55g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 62gFamily Favorite
6 chicken pieces: 
drumsticks, 
breasts, and 
thighs
1 cup ﬂour
2 teaspoons 
paprika
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
⅓ cup buttermilk
2 eggs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
1½ cups bread 
crumbs370°F  
Fry95 POULTRYFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
1 (2½- to 
3-pound) 
broiler-fryer 
whole chicken
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
½ teaspoon 
garlic salt
8 cloves garlic, 
peeled
1 slice lemon
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
12 to 16 creamer 
potatoes, 
scrubbed380°F  
RoastGarlic-Roasted Chicken  
with Creamer Potatoes
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Yes, you can roast a whole chicken in the air fryer, as long as 
it ﬁts easily into the air fryer basket. For this recipe, choose a 
small broiler-fryer, about 3 pounds. It takes a little longer than 
30 minutes from start to ﬁnish, but that’s so the chicken will 
become very crisp on the outside and moist and tender on 
the inside.
1. Do not wash the chicken before cooking.  Remove it from its 
packaging and pat the chicken dry.
2. Combine the olive oil and salt in a small bowl. Rub half of 
this mixture on the inside of the chicken, under the skin, 
and on the chicken skin. Place the garlic cloves and lemon 
slice inside the chicken. Sprinkle the chicken with the thyme 
and marjoram.
3. Put the chicken in the air fryer basket. Surround with the 
potatoes and drizzle the potatoes with the remaining olive 
oil mixture.
4. Roast for 25 minutes, then test the temperature of the 
chicken. It should be 160°F. Test at the thickest part of the 
breast, making sure the probe doesn’t touch bone. If the 
chicken isn’t done yet, return it to the air fryer and roast it 
for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the temperature is 160°F. »96 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOK5. When the chicken is done, transfer it and the potatoes to a 
serving platter and cover with foil. Let the chicken rest for 
5 minutes before serving.
Ingredient tip:  Creamer potatoes are small, round, white potatoes with 
thin and tender skins. They are usually not peeled before cooking. You 
can sometimes ﬁnd them in boxes intended for microwave cooking in 
the produce department of the grocery store.
Per serving: Calories: 491; Total Fat: 14g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 175mg; Sodium: 151mg; 
Carbohydrates: 20g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 68g» Garlic-Roasted Chicken with Creamer Potatoes97 POULTRYFamily Favorite
4 chicken breast 
ﬁlets
¼ cup chopped 
ham
⅓ cup grated 
Swiss or 
Gruyère 
cheese
¼ cup ﬂour
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
1 egg
1 cup panko 
bread crumbs
Olive oil for 
misting380°F  
FryChicken Cordon Bleu
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 13 TO 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Cordon bleu  is French for “blue ribbon,” and is the name of the 
famous cooking school in Paris. Chicken Cordon Bleu is chicken 
stuffed with ham and Swiss or Gruyère cheese. It’s a fancy recipe 
that’s a cinch to make with the air fryer.
1. Put the chicken breast filets on a work surface and gently 
press them with the palm of your hand to make them a bit 
thinner. Don’t tear the meat.
2. In a small bowl, combine the ham and cheese. Divide 
this mixture among the chicken filets. Wrap the chicken 
around the filling to enclose it, using toothpicks to hold the 
chicken together.
3. In a shallow bowl, mix the flour, salt, pepper, and marjoram. 
In another bowl, beat the egg. Spread the bread crumbs out 
on a plate.
4. Dip the chicken into the flour mixture, then into the egg, 
then into the bread crumbs to coat thoroughly.
5. Put the chicken in the air fryer basket and mist with olive oil.
6. Bake for 13 to 15 minutes or until the chicken is thoroughly 
cooked to 165°F. Carefully remove the toothpicks and serve.
Ingredient tip:  You can ﬁnd chicken ﬁlets, which are cut from the chicken 
breast, in most large grocery stores. If you can’t ﬁnd them, you can cut 
one chicken breast in half, holding your knife parallel to the work surface, 
to make two thin slices.
Per serving: Calories: 478; Total Fat: 12g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 200mg; 
Sodium: 575mg; Carbohydrates: 26g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 64g98 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite
⅓ cup soft bread 
crumbs
3 tablespoons 
milk
1 egg, beaten
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1¼ pounds 
ground 
chicken
¼ cup ﬁnely 
chopped ham
⅓ cup grated 
Havarti cheese
Olive oil for 
misting350°F  
GrillHam and Cheese Stuffed 
Chicken Burgers
PREP TIME: 12 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 13 TO 16 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Another take on the classic Chicken Cordon Bleu recipe, this dish 
is much more casual. Serve these tender and juicy burgers on 
toasted onion buns slathered with mayo and mustard and piled 
high with lettuce and sliced tomatoes.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the bread crumbs, milk, egg, 
thyme, salt, and pepper. Add the chicken and mix gently 
but thoroughly with clean hands.
2. Form the chicken into eight thin patties and place on 
waxed paper.
3. Top four of the patties with the ham and cheese. Top with 
remaining four patties and gently press the edges together 
to seal, so the ham and cheese mixture is in the middle of 
the burger.
4. Place the burgers in the basket and mist with olive oil. Grill 
for 13 to 16 minutes or until the chicken is thoroughly cooked 
to 165°F as measured with a meat thermometer.
Ingredient tip:  You can buy pre-chopped ham in the meat section of 
many supermarkets. But for this recipe, the ham should be in pieces no 
larger than ¼ inch. If the ham you buy is larger than that, chop it ﬁner.
Per serving: Calories: 367; Total Fat: 15g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 179mg; Sodium: 370mg; 
Carbohydrates: 8g; Fiber: <1g; Protein: 47g99 POULTRYChicken Tenders  
with Veggies
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 18 TO 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Chicken tenders cook to perfection in the air fryer. In this recipe, 
you’ll coat them in honey and seasoned bread crumbs. Serve 
this homey recipe with a green salad and some garlic bread for 
 dinner on a weeknight. Kids love it!
1. In a medium bowl, toss the chicken tenders with the honey, 
salt, and pepper.
2. In a shallow bowl, combine the bread crumbs, thyme, and 
olive oil, and mix.
3. Coat the tenders in the bread crumbs, pressing firmly onto 
the meat.
4. Place the carrots and potatoes in the air fryer basket and top 
with the chicken tenders.
5. Roast for 18 to 20 minutes or until the chicken is cooked 
to 165°F and the vegetables are tender, shaking the basket 
halfway during the cooking time.
Did You Know?  Chicken tenders are cut from the chicken breast when 
this cut is sold boneless and skinless. The tender is a little muscle behind 
the breast.
Per serving: Calories: 378; Total Fat: 8g; Saturated Fat: <1g; Cholesterol: 97mg; Sodium: 296mg; 
Carbohydrates: 35g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 41gFamily Favorite
1 pound chicken 
tenders
1 tablespoon 
honey
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
½ cup soft fresh 
bread crumbs
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
2 carrots, sliced
12 small red 
potatoes380°F  
Roast7
MEAT
102 Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry
103 Thai Burgers
104 Beef Korma
105 Rice and Meatball Stuffed  
Bell Peppers
106 Stir-Fried Steak and Cabbage
107 Unstuffed Cabbage
108 Cheese-Stuffed Meatballs
109 Meatballs in Spicy Tomato Sauce110 Mexican Pizza
111 Tex-Mex Steak
112 Chicken-Fried Steak
113 Tender Country Ribs
114 Bacon Garlic Pizza
115 Sweet-and-Sour Polish Sausage
116 Lemon Pork Tenderloin
117 Crispy Mustard Pork Tenderloin102 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKSpicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 6 TO 9 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Peanut butter, red chiles, and lime juice give this recipe its 
 distinctive Thai ﬂavor. The tender beef and broccoli, along with 
garlic, transform this dish into a feast.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the steak with 1  tablespoon of 
the lime juice. Set aside.
2. Combine the peanut butter and beef broth in a small bowl 
and mix well. Drain the beef and add the juice from the bowl 
into the peanut butter mixture.
3. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the olive oil, steak, and 
broccoli. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until the steak is almost 
cooked and the broccoli is crisp and tender, shaking the 
basket once during cooking time.
4. Add the garlic, chile peppers, and the peanut butter mixture 
and stir. Cook for 3 to 5 minutes or until the sauce is bubbling 
and the broccoli is tender. Serve over hot rice.
Did You Know?  The heat in a chile pepper is in its membranes and seeds. 
If you like spicy food, leave them in, but if you prefer a little less heat, 
remove and discard them. And when you handle chile peppers, be care -
ful! Never touch your eyes or mouth when cutting them, because the 
 chemical capsaicin in the peppers can burn.
Per serving: Calories: 387; Total Fat: 22g; Saturated Fat: 6g; Cholesterol: 101mg; Sodium: 281mg; 
Carbohydrates: 7g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 42gGluten-Free
1 pound sirloin 
steaks, thinly 
sliced
2 tablespoons 
lime juice, 
divided
⅓ cup crunchy 
peanut butter
½ cup beef 
broth
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1½ cups broccoli 
ﬂorets
2 cloves garlic, 
sliced
1 to 2 red chile 
peppers, 
sliced370°F  
Stir-Fry103 MEATFamily Favorite
½ cup soft bread 
crumbs
¼ cup Thai chili 
sauce
2 minced green 
onions
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
1¼ pounds 
93 percent 
lean ground 
beef
4 onion rolls, 
split in half
1 large beefsteak 
tomato, sliced
⅓ cup 
commercial 
peanut sauce380°F  
GrillThai Burgers
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Did you know that ground beef, and, in fact, any ground meat, 
must be cooked to 165°F for food safety reasons? If the tempera -
ture is any lower, you run the risk of food poisoning. But adding 
a mixture of bread crumbs and liquid to the meat means you can 
cook that burger well done and it will still be moist and juicy.
1. In a large bowl, combine the bread crumbs, Thai chili sauce, 
green onions, and garlic, and mix well. Add the ground beef 
and mix gently but thoroughly until combined.
2. Form the beef mixture into four patties. Make an indentation 
in the center of each patty with your thumb so the burgers 
don’t puff up when they cook.
3. Cook for 12 minutes, and then test the burgers. If they 
aren’t at least 165°F, cook for 3 minutes until they reach 
that temperature.
4. Assemble burgers with the onion rolls, sliced tomato, and 
peanut sauce.
Substitution tip:  You can make these burgers with ground pork or a 
combination of ground pork and ground beef. You could also add sliced 
onions and lettuce to the burgers when you assemble them.
Per serving: Calories: 584; Total Fat: 18g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 127mg; 
Sodium: 1,315mg; Carbohydrates: 47g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 53g104 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKBeef Korma
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 17 TO 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
An Indian recipe made of a mixture of meat and vegetables, beef 
korma is cooked in a yogurt sauce seasoned generously with 
curry powder. It can be mild or spicy depending on your taste. 
Serve this dish with warm pita bread and a cool cucumber salad.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the steak, yogurt, and curry 
powder. Stir and set aside.
2. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the olive oil, onion, and 
garlic. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until crisp and tender.
3. Add the steak along with the yogurt and the diced tomato. 
Cook for 12 to 13 minutes or until steak is almost tender.
4. Stir in the peas and cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until hot.
Ingredient tip:  The best cuts for this recipe include sirloin, sirloin tip, and 
top round. The yogurt helps tenderize the steak, even with a very short 
marinating time.
Per serving: Calories: 298; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 103mg; Sodium: 100mg; 
Carbohydrates: 9g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 38gGluten-Free
1 pound sirloin 
steak, sliced
½ cup yogurt
1 tablespoon 
curry powder
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 onion, 
chopped
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
1 tomato, diced
½ cup frozen 
baby peas, 
thawed350°F  
Bake105 MEATFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
4 bell peppers
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 small onion, 
chopped
2 cloves garlic, 
minced
1 cup frozen 
cooked rice, 
thawed
16 to 20 small 
frozen 
precooked 
meatballs, 
thawed
½ cup tomato 
sauce
2 tablespoons 
Dijon mustard400°F  
BakeRice and Meatball Stuffed 
Bell Peppers
PREP TIME: 13 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 TO 17 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Stuffed peppers are classic comfort food. You can choose any 
color of pepper. Mix and match and let your family decide what 
pepper they want! Choose the tiny appetizer-size meatballs 
for this dish. The amount you’ll need depends on the size of 
the peppers.
1. To prepare the peppers, cut off about ½ inch of the tops. 
Carefully remove the membranes and seeds from inside the 
peppers. Set aside.
2. In a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, combine the olive oil, onion, and 
garlic. Bake in the air fryer for 2 to 4 minutes or until crisp 
and tender. Remove the vegetable mixture from the pan and 
set aside in a medium bowl.
3. Add the rice, meatballs, tomato sauce, and mustard to the 
vegetable mixture and stir to combine.
4. Stuff the peppers with the meat-vegetable mixture.
5. Place the peppers in the air fryer basket and bake for 
9 to 13 minutes or until the filling is hot and the peppers 
are tender.
Ingredient tip:  If you can’t ﬁnd small meatballs that will easily ﬁt into the 
bell peppers, just buy regular-size meatballs and cut them into thirds.
Per serving: Calories: 487; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 47mg; Sodium: 797mg; 
Carbohydrates: 57g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 26g106 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKStir-Fried Steak and Cabbage
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 8 TO 13 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Cabbage adds great ﬂavor and nutrition to this simple, satisfy -
ing dish. You can use red or green cabbage—or a combination 
of both—in this recipe.
1. Toss the steak with the cornstarch and set aside.
2. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the peanut oil with the 
cabbage. Place in the basket and cook for 3 to 4 minutes.
3. Remove the bowl from the basket and add the steak, pepper, 
onions, and garlic. Return to the air fryer and cook for 3 to 
5 minutes or until the steak is cooked to desired doneness 
and vegetables are crisp and tender.
4. Add the stir-fry sauce and cook for 2 to 4 minutes or until 
hot. Serve over rice.
Substitution tip:  In place of regular cabbage, try using Napa cabbage, 
which is a more traditional stir-fry ingredient. Or you could use bok choy 
or try broccoli ﬂorets.
Per serving: Calories: 180; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 51mg; Sodium: 1,843mg; 
Carbohydrates: 9g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 20gFamily Favorite
½ pound sirloin 
steak, cut into 
strips
2 teaspoons 
cornstarch
1 tablespoon 
peanut oil
2 cups chopped 
red or green 
cabbage
1 yellow bell 
pepper, 
chopped
2 green onions, 
chopped
2 cloves garlic, 
sliced
½ cup 
commercial 
stir-fry sauce370°F  
Stir-Fry107 MEATFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 small onion, 
chopped
1½ cups 
chopped 
green 
cabbage
16 precooked 
frozen 
meatballs
1 cup frozen 
cooked rice
2 tomatoes, 
chopped
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper370°F  
BakeUnstuffed Cabbage
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 14 TO 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Making traditional stuffed cabbage entails quite a bit of work. 
You have to soften the leaves, make the ﬁlling, stuff the cab -
bage, roll it up, and bake it in sauce. This one-dish version of the 
recipe gives you the taste of the real thing—but with much less 
prep work.
1. In a 6-inch metal bowl, combine the oil and the onion. Bake 
for 2 to 4 minutes or until the onion is crisp and tender.
2. Add the cabbage, meatballs, rice, tomatoes, marjoram, salt, 
and pepper, and stir.
3. Bake for 12 to 16 minutes, stirring once during cooking time, 
until the meatballs are hot, the rice is warmed, and the 
vegetables are tender.
Cooking tip:  At most supermarkets, you can now buy prepped fresh 
 veggies that are ready to cook. Look in the produce section and you’ll 
likely ﬁnd chopped onions, chopped cabbage for slaw, and other foods 
such as shredded carrots and chopped bell peppers.
Per serving: Calories: 453; Total Fat: 20g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Cholesterol: 47mg; 
Sodium: 590mg; Carbohydrates: 51g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 25g108 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKCheese-Stuffed Meatballs
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 13 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Meatballs that are stuffed with melted cheese are divine! They 
are easy to make, albeit a bit fussy. In this recipe, feel free to use 
any kind of cheese that melts easily, from mozzarella to Swiss or 
Colby. Serve them with pasta sauce over noodles or rice.
1. In a large bowl, combine the bread crumbs, milk, ketchup, 
egg, marjoram, salt, and pepper, and mix well.
2. Add the ground beef and mix gently but thoroughly with 
your hands.
3. Form the mixture into 20 meatballs.
4. Shape each meatball around a cheese cube. Mist the meat -
balls with olive oil and put into the air fryer basket.
5. Bake for 10 to 13 minutes or until the meatballs register 
165°F on a meat thermometer.
Cooking tip:  To make the best meatballs or meatloaf, always combine all 
of the “ﬁller” ingredients—such as bread crumbs and egg—ﬁrst, then mix 
in the meat. The more you handle the meat, the tougher the meatballs. 
Handle ground meat as little as possible for best results.
Per serving: Calories: 393; Total Fat: 17g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 166mg; 
Sodium: 499mg; Carbohydrates: 10g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 50gFamily Favorite
⅓ cup soft bread 
crumbs
3 tablespoons 
milk
1 tablespoon 
ketchup
1 egg
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound 
95 percent 
lean ground 
beef
20 ½-inch cubes 
of cheese
Olive oil for 
misting390°F  
Bake109 MEATFamily Favorite
3 green onions, 
minced
1 garlic clove, 
minced
1 egg yolk
¼ cup saltine 
cracker 
crumbs
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound 
95 percent 
lean ground 
beef
Olive oil for 
misting
1¼ cups pasta 
sauce (from a 
16-ounce jar)
2 tablespoons 
Dijon mustard400°F  
BakeMeatballs in  
Spicy Tomato Sauce
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 11 TO 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Meatballs may become your air fryer go-to: You can make moist 
meatballs with a slightly crisp crust with much less effort than 
you’d expend making them on the stovetop. To avoid smoke, use 
ground beef that is at least 95 percent lean.
1. In a large bowl, combine the green onions, garlic, egg yolk, 
cracker crumbs, salt, and pepper, and mix well.
2. Add the ground beef and mix gently but thoroughly with 
your hands until combined. Form into 1½-inch meatballs.
3. Mist the meatballs with olive oil and put into the basket of 
the air fryer.
4. Bake for 8 to 11 minutes or until the meatballs are 165°F.
5. Remove the meatballs from the basket and place in a 6-inch 
metal bowl. Top with the pasta sauce and Dijon mustard and 
mix gently.
6. Bake for 3 to 4 minutes or until the sauce is hot.
Substitution tip:  You can make these meatballs with lean ground pork, 
or ground chicken or turkey, or a combination of any of those meats. Just 
make sure you cook them until they register an internal temperature of 
165°F for food safety reasons.
Per serving: Calories: 360; Total Fat: 12g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 154mg; 
Sodium: 875mg; Carbohydrates: 24g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 39g110 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKMexican Pizza
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 7 TO 9 MINUTES / SERVES 4
You may be surprised to learn that pizza bakes beautifully—and 
quickly—in the air fryer! The crust crisps up, the cheese melts to 
perfection, and the toppings get hot and remain ﬁrm, not soggy. 
This recipe provides a spicy twist to a classic pie.
1. In a medium bowl, combine the refried beans, salsa, meat -
balls, and jalapeño pepper.
2. Preheat the air fryer for 3 to 4 minutes or until hot.
3. Top the pitas with the refried bean mixture and sprinkle with 
the cheeses.
4. Bake for 7 to 9 minutes or until the pizza is crisp and the 
cheese is melted and starts to brown.
5. Top each pizza with a dollop of sour cream and serve warm.
Substitution tip:  If you like, add cooked pork sausage to this recipe. Or 
add other vegetables, such as mushrooms, chopped onion, or chopped 
tomatoes to the refried bean mixture.
Per serving: Calories: 510; Total Fat: 24g; Saturated Fat: 12g; Cholesterol: 64mg; 
Sodium: 1,196mg; Carbohydrates: 50g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 31gFamily Favorite
¾ cup refried 
beans (from a 
16-ounce can)
½ cup salsa
10 frozen 
precooked 
beef meat -
balls, thawed 
and sliced
1 jalapeño 
pepper, sliced
4 whole-wheat 
pita breads
1 cup shredded 
pepper Jack 
cheese
½ cup shredded 
Colby cheese
⅓ cup sour 
cream370°F  
Bake111 MEATGluten-Free
1 pound skirt 
steak
1 chipotle 
pepper in 
adobo sauce, 
minced 
(La Costena 
or another 
gluten-free 
brand)
2 tablespoons 
adobo sauce 
(La Costena 
or another 
gluten-free 
brand)
½ teaspoon salt
⅛ teaspoon 
pepper
⅛ teaspoon 
crushed red 
pepper ﬂakes390°F  
GrillTex-Mex Steak
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Who needs a grill when you have an air fryer? This recipe takes 
longer than 30 minutes from start to ﬁnish, but it’s worth the 
wait. It features the classic spicy ﬂavors of Mexican dishes; the 
steak gets its kick from chipotle peppers and red pepper ﬂakes.
1. Cut the steak into four pieces and place them on a plate.
2. In a small bowl, combine the minced chipotle pepper, adobo 
sauce, salt, pepper, and crushed red pepper flakes. Spread 
over the steaks on both sides.
3. Let the steaks stand at room temperature for at least 
20 minutes, or refrigerate up to 12 hours.
4. Grill the steaks, two at a time, in the air fryer basket for 
10 minutes until the steaks register an internal temperature 
of at least 145°F. Repeat with remaining steaks while the first 
ones rest, covered with foil.
5. Add the just-cooked steaks to the ones that have been 
resting and let rest for another 5 minutes. Slice thinly across 
the grain to serve.
Ingredient tip:  Chipotles in adobo are jalapeño peppers that are cooked 
and jarred in a spicy red sauce. Many adobo sauces contain gluten, so 
read the labels carefully or opt for gluten-free La Costena brand.
Per serving: Calories: 244; Total Fat: 11g; Saturated Fat: 4g; Cholesterol: 67mg; Sodium: 617mg; 
Carbohydrates: 3g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 30g112 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKChicken-Fried Steak
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
“Chicken-fried” steak doesn’t contain any chicken! It’s simply 
a method for cooking steak that is similar to fried chicken. The 
steak is coated in a batter and deep-fried until crisp on the 
outside and juicy on the inside. For the air fryer, a batter alone 
wouldn’t create the desired crust, so here you add bread crumbs 
to the mix.
1. Place the cube steaks on a plate or cutting board and gently 
pound until they are slightly thinner. Set aside.
2. In a shallow bowl, combine the buttermilk, flour, paprika, 
garlic salt, and egg until just combined.
3. On a plate, combine the bread crumbs and olive oil and 
mix well.
4. Dip the steaks into the buttermilk batter to coat, and let sit 
on a plate for 5 minutes.
5. Dredge the steaks in the bread crumbs. Pat the crumbs onto 
both sides to coat the steaks thoroughly.
6. Air-fry the steaks for 12 to 16 minutes or until the meat 
reaches 160°F on a meat thermometer and the coating is 
brown and crisp. You can serve this with heated beef gravy.
Did You Know?  Cube steaks have been “mechanically tenderized” and 
have to be cooked to well done. The meat has been pierced with  needles 
or blades to cut up the ﬁbers in the meat so it will be tender when 
cooked. This also means that bacteria on the surface of the meat have 
been pushed through to the inside. For safety reasons, cook this type 
of steak to 160°F.
Per serving: Calories: 630; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 6g; Cholesterol: 194mg; 
Sodium: 358mg; Carbohydrates: 46g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 61gFamily Favorite
4 (6-ounce) beef 
cube steaks
½ cup buttermilk
1 cup ﬂour
2 teaspoons 
paprika
1 teaspoon 
garlic salt
1 egg
1 cup soft bread 
crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil350°F  
Fry113 MEATFamily Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
12 country-style 
pork ribs, 
trimmed of 
excess fat
2 tablespoons 
cornstarch
2 tablespoons 
olive oil
1 teaspoon dry 
mustard
½ teaspoon 
thyme
½ teaspoon 
garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper400°F  
RoastTender Country Ribs
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 TO 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Country-style pork ribs are much meatier than spareribs. You can 
buy them with or without the bone. For this recipe, opt for bone -
less ribs. When cooked in the air fryer, you get the depth of ﬂavor 
of traditional ribs in a fraction of the time.
1. Place the ribs on a clean work surface.
2. In a small bowl, combine the cornstarch, olive oil, mustard, 
thyme, garlic powder, marjoram, salt, and pepper, and rub 
into the ribs.
3. Place the ribs in the air fryer basket and roast for  
10 minutes.
4. Carefully turn the ribs using tongs and roast for 10 to 
15 minutes or until the ribs are crisp and register an 
internal temperature of at least 150°F.
Air Fryer tip:  When you turn the ribs, you may want to remove excess 
grease from the air fryer pan that sits below the basket. Put the pan and 
basket on a heatproof surface and carefully push the button to release the 
basket. Drain the fat from the pan and put the basket back on it. Reattach 
and continue cooking.
Per serving: Calories: 578; Total Fat: 44g; Saturated Fat: 14g; Cholesterol: 1153mg; 
Sodium: 155mg; Carbohydrates: 4g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 40g114 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKBacon Garlic Pizza
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Frozen dinner rolls make great crusts for individual pizzas. This 
dough is stiffer than most pizza dough in a tube and forms a 
crispier crust. Shaping the pizza into an oval means you can bake 
two at a time, which gets dinner on the table more quickly.
1. On a lightly floured surface, press out each dinner roll to a 
5-by-3-inch oval.
2. Spray four 6-by-4-inch pieces of heavy duty foil with nonstick 
spray and place one crust on each piece.
3. Bake, two at a time, for 2 minutes or until the crusts are set, 
but not browned.
4. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the garlic, pizza sauce, 
oregano, and garlic salt. When the pizza crusts are set, spread 
each with some of the sauce. Top with the bacon pieces and 
Cheddar cheese.
5. Bake, two at a time, for another 8 minutes or until the crust 
is browned and the cheese is melted and starting to brown.
Substitution tip:  You can use this recipe as a basis for just about any pizza 
you’d like. Use pepperoni instead of the bacon. Use Swiss or mozzarella 
cheese in place of the Cheddar. And add any vegetable, such as sliced 
mushrooms or chopped green onions, that you like.
Per serving: Calories: 739; Total Fat: 42g; Saturated Fat: 19g; Cholesterol: 102mg; 
Sodium: 1,685mg; Carbohydrates: 53g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 37gFamily Favorite
Flour, for 
dusting
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
4 frozen large 
whole-wheat 
dinner rolls, 
thawed
5 cloves garlic, 
minced
¾ cup pizza 
sauce
½ teaspoon 
dried oregano
½ teaspoon 
garlic salt
8 slices 
precooked 
bacon, cut 
into 1-inch 
pieces
1¼ cups 
shredded 
Cheddar 
cheese370°F  
Bake115 MEATFamily Favorite
¾ pound Polish 
sausage
1 red bell 
pepper, cut 
into 1-inch 
strips
½ cup minced 
onion
3 tablespoons 
brown sugar
⅓ cup ketchup
2 tablespoons 
mustard
2 tablespoons 
apple cider 
vinegar
½ cup chicken 
broth350°F  
RoastSweet-and-Sour  
Polish Sausage
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Polish sausage cooks very well in the air fryer. The skin gets crisp 
and the inside stays moist and juicy, even when it is cut into 
pieces before cooking. When cooked in a sweet-and-sour sauce 
with some vegetables, this sausage becomes a hearty dinner 
dish. Enjoy over rice.
1. Cut the sausage into 1½-inch pieces and put into a 6-inch 
metal bowl. Add the pepper and minced onion.
2. In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, ketchup, mustard, 
apple cider vinegar, and chicken broth, and mix well. Pour 
into the bowl.
3. Roast for 10 to 15 minutes or until the sausage is hot, 
the vegetables tender, and the sauce bubbling and 
slightly thickened.
Did You Know?  Polish sausage is almost always fully cooked when it is 
sold; read the label carefully to make sure you buy a fully cooked type for 
this recipe. Uncooked sausages are too fatty and release too much grease 
to cook in this appliance.
Per serving: Calories: 381; Total Fat: 26g; Saturated Fat: 8g; Cholesterol: 71mg; Sodium: 957mg; 
Carbohydrates: 17g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 19g116 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKLemon Pork Tenderloin
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Because it comes from a part on the animal near the rib cage 
that is rarely used, pork tenderloin is one of the most tender cuts 
of meat. It absorbs ﬂavors readily and cooks quickly, which lets 
you put dinner on the table in mere minutes.
1. Put the pork tenderloin slices in a medium bowl.
2. In a small bowl, combine the olive oil, lemon juice, honey, 
lemon zest, marjoram, salt, and pepper. Mix together.
3. Pour this marinade over the tenderloin slices and massage 
gently with your hand to work it into the pork.
4. Place the pork in the air fryer basket and roast for 10 min-  
utes or until the pork registers at least 145°F using a 
meat thermometer.
Ingredient tip:  You can often buy pre-marinated pork tenderloin in the 
supermarket, which makes this meat even faster to prepare. Just slice the 
pork and cook and you could eat in 10 minutes!
Per serving: Calories: 209; Total Fat: 8g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 83mg; Sodium: 104mg; 
Carbohydrates: 5g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 30gFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Gluten-Free
1 (1-pound) 
pork tender -
loin, cut into 
½-inch slices
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 tablespoon 
lemon juice
1 tablespoon 
honey
½ teaspoon 
grated lemon 
zest
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper400°F  
Roast117 MEATFamily Favorite
1 pound pork 
tenderloin, 
cut into 1-inch 
slices
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons 
Dijon mustard
1 clove garlic, 
minced
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
1 cup soft bread 
crumbs
2 tablespoons 
olive oil390°F  
FryCrispy Mustard Pork 
Tenderloin
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 14 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Pork tenderloin is the most tender cut of the pig. When coated 
with mustard and minced garlic, then bread crumbs, this meat 
crisps up on the outside and remains juicy on the inside. Serve 
with roasted potatoes and a fruit salad for a  satisfying dinner.
1. Slightly pound the pork slices until they are about ¾-inch 
thick. Sprinkle with salt and pepper on both sides.
2. Coat the pork with the Dijon mustard and sprinkle with the 
garlic and basil.
3. On a plate, combine the bread crumbs and olive oil and mix 
well. Coat the pork slices with the bread crumb mixture, 
patting so the crumbs adhere.
4. Place the pork in the air fryer basket, leaving a little space 
between each piece. Air-fry for 12 to 14 minutes or until the 
pork reaches at least 145°F on a meat thermometer and the 
coating is crisp and brown. Serve immediately.
Ingredient tip:  When you buy pork tenderloin at the grocery store, be 
sure to read the label. This cut is often sold marinated, and you don’t want 
the ﬂavors in the marinade to clash with the ﬂavors in this recipe. For this 
recipe, look for plain tenderloin that is not marinated.
Per serving: Calories: 335; Total Fat: 13g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 83mg; Sodium: 390mg; 
Carbohydrates: 20g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 34g8
VEGETABLES AND SIDES
120 Herbed Vegetable Mélange
121 Steamed Green Veggie Trio
122 Garlic and Sesame Carrots
123 Roasted Bell Peppers with Garlic
124 Roasted Brussels Sprouts125 Savory Roasted Sweet Potatoes
126 Crispy Parmesan French Fries
127 Scalloped Potatoes
128 Roasted Potato Salad
129 Creamy Corn Casserole120 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKHerbed Vegetable Mélange
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 14 TO 18 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Roasted vegetables complement almost any meal, whether 
you’re serving a grilled steak, roasted chicken, or hamburgers. 
Choose tender veggies for this recipe; that way, they will cook 
at the same rate.
1. Place the pepper, mushrooms, squash, and garlic in a 
medium bowl and drizzle with the olive oil. Toss, add the 
thyme, basil, and tarragon, and toss again.
2. Place the vegetables in the air fryer basket. Roast for 14 to 
18 minutes or until the vegetables are tender.
Air Fryer tip:  When you add dried herbs to an air fryer recipe, whether 
you’re making roasted vegetables or chicken, they must stick to the food 
or they will just blow around the air fryer and may burn. Always coat veg -
gies or meat with a little oil before you add herbs, then they will stay on 
the food and ﬂavor it.
Per serving: Calories: 63; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: <1g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 10mg; 
Carbohydrates: 6g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 3gVegan,  
Gluten-Free
1 red bell 
pepper, sliced
1 (8-ounce) 
package sliced 
mushrooms
1 yellow summer 
squash, sliced
3 cloves garlic, 
sliced
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
½ teaspoon 
dried tarragon350°F  
Roast121 VEGETABLES  AND  SIDESFast, Vegan, 
Gluten-Free
2 cups broccoli 
ﬂorets
1 cup green 
beans
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
1 tablespoon 
lemon juice
1 cup frozen 
baby peas
2 tablespoons 
honey 
mustard
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper330°F  
SteamSteamed Green Veggie Trio
PREP TIME: 6 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 9 MINUTES / SERVES 4
This combination of vegetables is delicious and classic, and can 
be made any time of the year. Fresh broccoli and green beans are 
available year-round, and peas are always stocked in the frozen 
section of the supermarket. Serve alongside a steak or roasted 
chicken for a bright side dish.
1. Put the broccoli and green beans in the basket of the air fryer. 
Put 2 tablespoons water in the air fryer pan. Sprinkle the 
vegetables with the olive oil and lemon juice, and toss.
2. Steam for 6 minutes, then remove the basket from the air 
fryer and add the peas.
3. Steam for 3 minutes or until the vegetables are hot 
and tender.
4. Transfer the vegetables to a serving dish and drizzle with 
the honey mustard and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Toss 
and serve.
Ingredient tip:  To prepare broccoli, cut the ﬂorets off the stem. You 
can freeze the stem to use in stir-fries later. To prepare green beans, 
cut off both ends and rinse well.
Per serving: Calories: 99; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: <1g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 95mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 4g122 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKGarlic and Sesame Carrots
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 16 MINUTES / SERVES 4 TO 6
Almost every child loves carrots, but adults consider them kind of 
boring. Not these carrots! The air fryer intensiﬁes the sweetness 
inherent in this vegetable, and the texture is simply sublime; it is 
tender and slightly chewy. If your kids don’t like garlic, just omit 
it from the recipe.
1. Place the baby carrots in a medium bowl. Drizzle with 
sesame oil, add the dill, salt, and pepper, and toss to 
coat well.
2. Place the carrots in the basket of the air fryer. Roast for 
8 minutes, shaking the basket once during cooking time.
3. Add the garlic to the air fryer. Roast for 8 minutes, shaking 
the basket once during cooking time, or until the garlic and 
carrots are lightly browned.
4. Transfer to a serving bowl and sprinkle with the sesame 
seeds before serving.
Variation tip:  You can cook large carrots, cut into chunks, in place of the 
baby carrots in this recipe. Or you can try roasting other root vegetables, 
such as parsnips or rutabagas.
Per serving: Calories: 116; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 129mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 2gFamily Favorite, 
Vegan, Gluten-
Free
1 pound baby 
carrots
1 tablespoon 
sesame oil
½ teaspoon 
dried dill
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
6 cloves garlic, 
peeled
3 tablespoons 
sesame seeds380°F  
Roast123 VEGETABLES  AND  SIDESFamily Favorite, 
Vegan, Gluten-
Free
1 red bell pepper
1 yellow bell 
pepper
1 orange bell 
pepper
1 green bell 
pepper
2 tablespoons 
olive oil, 
divided
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 head garlic330°F  
RoastRoasted Bell Peppers  
with Garlic
PREP TIME: 8 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 22 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A mixture of colorful roasted bell peppers is not only beautiful 
but also delicious and good for you. You can choose any color 
of bell pepper you can ﬁnd in the market. Serve this dish with 
a meatloaf for a great meal.
1. Slice the bell peppers into 1-inch strips.
2. In a large bowl, toss the bell peppers with 1 tablespoon of 
the oil. Sprinkle on the marjoram, salt, and pepper, and 
toss again.
3. Cut off the top of the garlic head and place the cloves on an 
oiled square of aluminum foil. Drizzle with the remaining 
olive oil. Wrap the garlic in the foil.
4. Place the wrapped garlic in the air fryer and roast for 
15 minutes, then add the bell peppers. Roast for 7 minutes 
or until the peppers are tender and the garlic is soft. Transfer 
the peppers to a serving dish.
5. Remove the garlic from the air fryer and unwrap the foil. 
When cool enough to handle, squeeze the garlic cloves out 
of the papery skin and mix with the bell peppers.
Cooking tip:  To easily remove the seeds from a bell pepper, cut around 
the stem with a sharp knife and simply pull out the stem with the seeds 
attached. Rinse the pepper to remove any stray seeds and cut into strips.
Per serving: Calories: 108; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 45mg; 
Carbohydrates: 10g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 2g124 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKRoasted Brussels Sprouts
PREP TIME: 8 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Many people don’t like Brussels sprouts because they can be 
bitter. But when cooked until golden and crisp in the air fryer, 
these mini cabbages become tender and sweet. Serve with 
 Garlic-Roasted Chicken (page 95) for a hearty dinner.
1. Trim the bottoms from the Brussels sprouts and pull off any 
discolored leaves. Toss with the olive oil, salt, and pepper, 
and place in the air fryer basket.
2. Roast for 20 minutes, shaking the air fryer basket twice 
during cooking time, until the Brussels sprouts are dark 
golden brown and crisp.
3. Transfer the Brussels sprouts to a serving dish and toss with 
the Parmesan cheese. Serve immediately.
Did You Know?  Brussels sprouts were cultivated in Roman times and 
introduced into the United States in the 1880s. Most Brussels sprouts in 
this country are grown in California.
Per serving: Calories: 102; Total Fat: 5g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 5mg; Sodium: 385mg; 
Carbohydrates: 11g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 6gVegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
1 pound fresh 
Brussels 
sprouts
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
½ teaspoon salt
⅛ teaspoon 
pepper
¼ cup grated 
Parmesan 
cheese330°F  
Roast125 VEGETABLES  AND  SIDESFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
2 sweet 
potatoes, 
peeled and 
cut into 1-inch 
cubes
1 tablespoon 
olive oil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried 
marjoram
¼ cup grated 
Parmesan 
cheese330°F  
RoastSavory Roasted 
Sweet Potatoes
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Sweet potatoes are delicious when cooked with brown sugar 
and topped with marshmallows in the classic holiday  casserole. 
But have you ever made them with savory ingredients? This 
easy  recipe is especially tasty served alongside meatloaf or 
a pot roast.
1. Put the sweet potato cubes in the air fryer basket and drizzle 
with the olive oil. Toss gently. Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, 
thyme, and marjoram, and toss again.
2. Roast for 20 minutes, shaking the air fryer basket once during 
cooking time.
3. Remove the basket from the air fryer and shake the potatoes 
again. Sprinkle evenly with the Parmesan cheese and return 
to the air fryer.
4. Roast for 5 minutes or until the potatoes are tender.
Did You Know?  Sweet potatoes and yams are two different types of root 
vegetable. A true yam is a starchy white root vegetable used in  Caribbean 
cooking. Sweet potatoes are high in vitamin A and are usually bright 
orange in color.
Per serving: Calories: 186; Total Fat: 5g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 5mg; Sodium: 115mg; 
Carbohydrates: 32g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 4g126 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKCrispy Parmesan 
French Fries
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
You can, of course, use raw whole potatoes to make French 
fries in the air fryer, but that will add 10 to 15 minutes to the 
 preparation time. While still hot, the fries are coated with 
 Parmesan and herbs to add a wonderful depth of ﬂavor.
1. If there is any ice on the French fries, remove it. Place the 
French fries in the air fryer basket and drizzle with the olive 
oil. Toss gently.
2. Air-fry for about 10 minutes, or until the fries are golden 
brown and hot, shaking the basket once during cooking time.
3. Immediately put the fries into a serving bowl and sprinkle 
with the Parmesan, thyme, basil, and salt. Shake to coat and 
serve hot.
Ingredient tip:  Russet potatoes are the best for making French fries 
because they are low in moisture and bake up tender and crisp. You can 
use red potatoes or Yukon gold potatoes, but your results won’t be quite 
as crisp.
Per serving: Calories: 152; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 6mg; Sodium: 382mg; 
Carbohydrates: 24g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 5gFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
4 cups frozen 
thin French 
fries
2 teaspoons 
olive oil
⅓ cup grated 
Parmesan 
cheese
½ teaspoon 
dried thyme
½ teaspoon 
dried basil
½ teaspoon salt390°F  
Fry127 VEGETABLES  AND  SIDESFamily Favorite
2 cups pre-sliced 
refrigerated 
potatoes
3 cloves garlic, 
minced
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
¾ cup heavy 
cream380°F  
BakeScalloped Potatoes
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Rich scalloped potatoes cook up easily in the air fryer and only 
require a few ingredients. You can substitute half-and-half or 
whole milk for the heavy cream, but you’ll end up with a less rich 
side dish.
1. Layer the potatoes, garlic, salt, and pepper in a 6-by-6-  
by-2-inch baking pan. Slowly pour the cream over all.
2. Bake for 15 minutes, until the potatoes are golden brown 
on top and tender. Check their state and, if needed, bake for 
5 minutes until browned.
Ingredient tip:  You can top these potatoes with cheese after about 
10 minutes of baking time. Add ⅔ cup of shredded Swiss, Havarti, or 
Gouda, and bake until the cheese is bubbling and starts to brown.
Per serving: Calories: 133; Total Fat: 8g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Cholesterol: 31mg; Sodium: 52mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g128 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKRoasted Potato Salad
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES / SERVES 4 TO 6
Potato salad is a versatile dish to serve any time of the year. This 
salad is served warm, but you can cool it for serving later. The hot 
potatoes will soak up the lemony dressing.
1. Place the potatoes in the air fryer basket and drizzle with 
1 tablespoon of the olive oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper.
2. Roast for 25 minutes, shaking twice during cooking time, 
until the potatoes are tender and light golden brown.
3. Meanwhile, place the bell pepper and green onions in a 
large bowl.
4. In a small bowl, combine the remaining ⅓ cup of olive oil, 
the lemon juice, and mustard, and mix well with a whisk.
5. When the potatoes are cooked, add them to the bowl with 
the bell peppers and top with the dressing. Toss gently 
to coat.
6. Let cool for 20 minutes. Stir gently again and serve or refrig -
erate and serve later.
Variation tip:  You can brighten and add complexity to this dish by 
 adding lots of fresh chopped herbs. Try chopped dill, basil, or rosemary, 
 depending on your preference. The warmth of the potatoes will deepen 
the herbs’ ﬂavor.
Per serving: Calories: 353; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Sodium: 192mg; 
Carbohydrates: 39g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 5gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
2 pounds 
tiny red or 
creamer 
potatoes, cut 
in half
1 tablespoon 
plus ⅓ cup 
olive oil
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 red bell 
pepper, 
chopped
2 green onions, 
chopped
⅓ cup lemon 
juice
3 tablespoons 
Dijon or 
yellow 
mustard350°F  
Roast129 VEGETABLES  AND  SIDESCreamy Corn Casserole
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A corn casserole is comforting and homey, and the perfect side 
dish for meatloaf or a roast chicken. This classic recipe whips up 
quickly when cooked in the air fryer.
1. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with nonstick spray.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the corn, flour, egg, milk, and 
light cream, and mix until combined. Stir in the cheese, salt, 
and pepper.
3. Pour this mixture into the prepared baking pan. Dot with 
the butter.
4. Bake for 15 minutes.
Substitution tip:  You can substitute one 15-ounce can of corn, drained, 
for the frozen corn. Or cut the kernels off 2 to 3 ears of corn to use in 
this recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 255; Total Fat: 16g; Saturated Fat: 10g; Cholesterol: 87mg; Sodium: 136mg; 
Carbohydrates: 21g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 9gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
2 cups frozen 
yellow corn
3 tablespoons 
ﬂour
1 egg, beaten
¼ cup milk
½ cup light 
cream
½ cup grated 
Swiss or 
Havarti cheese
Pinch salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons 
butter, cut in 
cubes320°F  
Bake9
DESsERTS
132 Grilled Curried Fruit
133 Apple Peach Cranberry Crisp
134 Orange Cornmeal Cake
135 Black Forest Hand Pies
136 Marble Cheesecake
137 Black and White Brownies138 Chocolate Peanut Butter Molten 
Cupcakes
139 Chocolate Peanut Butter Bread 
Pudding
140 Big Chocolate Chip Cookie
141 Frosted Peanut Butter Cookie132 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKGrilled Curried Fruit
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES / SERVES 6 TO 8
If you’ve never had grilled fruit before, here’s a wonderful 
 introduction. Grilling caramelizes the sugars in fruits, brings 
out their ﬂavor, and even turns fruit that’s not quite ripe into 
a sweet dessert. Serve with some sherbet or ice cream for a 
 cooling contrast.
1. Cut the peaches in half, remove the pits, and cut each half 
in half again. Cut the pears in half, core them, and remove 
the stem. Cut each half in half again. Do the same with 
the plums.
2. Spread a large sheet of heavy-duty foil on your work surface. 
Arrange the fruit on the foil and drizzle with the butter and 
honey. Sprinkle with the curry powder.
3. Wrap the fruit in the foil, making sure to leave some air 
space in the packet.
4. Put the foil package in the basket and grill for 5 to 8 minutes, 
shaking the basket once during the cooking time, until the 
fruit is soft and tender.
Ingredient tip:  Cut pears oxidize quickly, resulting in brown fruit. You can 
prevent browning by squeezing a little bit of fresh lemon juice onto the 
slices. The ascorbic acid in the lemon works to combat oxidation.
Per serving: Calories: 107; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 10mg; Sodium: 29mg; 
Carbohydrates: 19g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: <1gFast, 
Vegetarian, 
Gluten-Free
2 peaches
2 ﬁrm pears
2 plums
2 tablespoons 
melted butter
1 tablespoon 
honey
2 to 3 teaspoons 
curry powder350°F  
Grill133 DESSERTSFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 apple, peeled 
and chopped
2 peaches, 
peeled and 
chopped
⅓ cup dried 
cranberries
2 tablespoons 
honey
⅓ cup brown 
sugar
¼ cup ﬂour
½ cup oatmeal
3 tablespoons 
softened 
butter380°F  
BakeApple Peach Cranberry Crisp
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 12 MINUTES / SERVES 8
A crisp, or a crumble, is a combination of cooked fruit topped 
with a sweet streusel. This classic dessert is perfect for fall 
 dinners. Serve with a scoop of ice cream or softly whipped 
cream ﬂavored with vanilla.
1. In a 6-by-6-by-2-inch pan, combine the apple, peaches, cran -
berries, and honey, and mix well.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the brown sugar, flour, oatmeal, 
and butter, and mix until crumbly. Sprinkle this mixture over 
the fruit in the pan.
3. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes or until the fruit is bubbly and the 
topping is golden brown. Serve warm.
Substitution tip:  Other fruits can be used in this recipe. Try chopped 
plums or nectarines instead of the apple and peaches. Or use golden 
 raisins or currants in place of the dried cranberries.
Per serving: Calories: 134; Total Fat: 5g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 11mg; Sodium: 33mg; 
Carbohydrates: 23g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g134 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
1¼ cups all-
purpose ﬂour
⅓ cup yellow 
cornmeal
¾ cup white 
sugar
1 teaspoon 
baking soda
¼ cup safflower 
oil
1¼ cups orange 
juice, divided
1 teaspoon 
vanilla
¼ cup powdered 
sugar340°F  
BakeOrange Cornmeal Cake
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 23 MINUTES / SERVES 8
Cornmeal adds wonderful ﬂavor and a bit of crunch to this tender 
cake recipe. An orange glaze is poured over the cake when it’s 
still hot and soaks into the crumb. Serve this cake with a cup of 
coffee for a breakfast treat or afternoon snack.
1. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with nonstick spray and 
set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking 
soda, safflower oil, 1 cup of the orange juice, and vanilla, and 
mix well.
3. Pour the batter into the baking pan and place in the air fryer. 
Bake for 23 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the 
center of the cake comes out clean.
4. Remove the cake from the basket and place on a cooling rack. 
Using a toothpick, make about 20 holes in the cake.
5. In a small bowl, combine remaining ¼ cup of orange juice 
and the powdered sugar and stir well. Drizzle this mixture 
over the hot cake slowly so the cake absorbs it.
6. Cool completely, then cut into wedges to serve.
Did You Know?  To test for doneness when baking cakes, there are a few 
rules. A cake should spring back lightly when gently touched with a ﬁnger. 
Or, you can insert a clean toothpick into the cake; it should come out 
clean. Finally, when a cake is done, it starts to pull away from the sides 
of the baking pan slightly.
Per serving: Calories: 253; Total Fat: 7g; Saturated Fat: <1g; Cholesterol: 45mg; Sodium: 161mg; 
Carbohydrates: 45g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 3g135 DESSERTSBlack Forest Hand Pies
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES / SERVES 6
Black Forest Torte is an old-world cake with chocolate and cher -
ries. This easy recipe is fun to make, and kids especially love it. 
The chocolate and cherries are encased in puff pastry, which 
cooks to perfection in the air fryer. These taste delicious warm 
or cold.
1. In a small bowl, combine the chocolate chips, fudge sauce, 
and dried cherries.
2. Roll out the puff pastry on a floured surface. Cut into 
6 squares with a sharp knife.
3. Divide the chocolate chip mixture onto the center of each 
puff pastry square. Fold the squares in half to make triangles. 
Firmly press the edges with the tines of a fork to seal.
4. Brush the triangles on all sides sparingly with the beaten egg 
white. Sprinkle the tops with sugar and cinnamon.
5. Place in the air fryer basket and bake for 15 minutes or until 
the triangles are golden brown. The filling will be hot, so cool 
for at least 20 minutes before serving.
Air Fryer tip:  Make sure that these little pies are not touching each other 
in the air fryer so they brown and crisp on all sides.
Per serving: Calories: 173; Total Fat: 9g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 1mg; Sodium: 62mg; 
Carbohydrates: 21g; Fiber: <1g; Protein: 3gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
3 tablespoons 
milk or dark 
chocolate 
chips
2 tablespoons 
thick, hot 
fudge sauce
2 tablespoons 
chopped dried 
cherries
1 (10-by-15-
inch) sheet 
puff pastry, 
thawed
1 egg white, 
beaten
2 tablespoons 
sugar
½ teaspoon 
cinnamon300°F  
Bake136 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 cup graham 
cracker 
crumbs
3 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
1½ (8-ounce) 
packages 
cream cheese, 
softened
⅓ cup sugar
2 eggs, beaten
1 tablespoon 
ﬂour
1 teaspoon 
vanilla
¼ cup chocolate 
syrup320°F  
BakeMarble Cheesecake
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES / SERVES 8
A cheesecake cooked in the air fryer seems improbable, but it 
works! This cheesecake is a combination of vanilla and chocolate. 
It’s not only delicious, it’s gorgeous, too. Splurge and enjoy for 
dessert after a weeknight meal.
1. For the crust, combine the graham cracker crumbs and butter 
in a small bowl and mix well. Press into the bottom of a 
6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan and put in the freezer to set.
2. For the filling, combine the cream cheese and sugar in a 
medium bowl and mix well. Beat in the eggs, one at a time. 
Add the flour and vanilla.
3. Remove ⅔ cup of the filling to a small bowl and stir in the 
chocolate syrup until combined.
4. Pour the vanilla filling into the pan with the crust. Drop the 
chocolate filling over the vanilla filling by the spoonful. With 
a clean butter knife stir the fillings in a zigzag pattern to 
marbleize them.
5. Bake for 20 minutes or until the cheesecake is just set.
6. Cool on a wire rack for 1 hour, then chill in the refrigerator 
until the cheesecake is firm.
Substitution tip:  Using this basic recipe, you can make other ﬂavors. Add 
½ cup chocolate syrup and don’t divide the batter for a chocolate cheese -
cake. Omit the chocolate syrup and add about ⅓ cup of lemon curd for a 
lemon cheesecake.
Per serving: Calories: 311; Total Fat: 21g; Saturated Fat: 13g; Cholesterol: 99mg; Sodium: 272mg; 
Carbohydrates: 25g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 6g137 DESSERTSBlack and White Brownies
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES /  
MAKES 1 DOZEN BROWNIES
Who doesn’t love brownies? In the air fryer, the brownies stay 
moist and deeply rich, but get the most wonderful crunchy and 
crisp top. This easy recipe should quickly become part of your 
regular air frying repertoire.
1. In a medium bowl, beat the egg with the brown sugar and 
white sugar. Beat in the oil and vanilla.
2. Add the cocoa powder and flour, and stir just until combined. 
Fold in the white chocolate chips.
3. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with nonstick spray. 
Spoon the brownie batter into the pan.
4. Bake for 20 minutes or until the brownies are set when 
lightly touched with a finger. Let cool for 30 minutes before 
slicing to serve.
Cooking tip:  You measure cocoa powder just like you measure ﬂour: 
spoon it lightly into a measuring cup and level off the top with the back 
of a knife. Never scoop ﬂour or dry ingredients into a measuring cup 
because that adds too much to the recipe and your cookies, cakes, and 
bars will be dense and heavy.
Per serving: Calories: 81; Total Fat: 4g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Cholesterol: 14mg; Sodium: 10mg; 
Carbohydrates: 11g; Fiber: <1g; Protein: 1gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
1 egg
¼ cup brown 
sugar
2 tablespoons 
white sugar
2 tablespoons 
safflower oil
1 teaspoon 
vanilla
¼ cup cocoa 
powder
⅓ cup all-
purpose ﬂour
¼ cup white 
chocolate 
chips
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour340°F  
Bake138 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
1⅓ cups 
chocolate 
cake mix 
(from 
15-ounce box)
1 egg
1 egg yolk
¼ cup safflower 
oil
¼ cup hot water
⅓ cup sour 
cream
3 tablespoons 
peanut butter
1 tablespoon 
powdered 
sugar320°F  
BakeChocolate Peanut Butter 
Molten Cupcakes
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 13 MINUTES /  
MAKES 8 CUPCAKES
Molten cupcakes are cakes that are slightly underbaked so the 
center stays runny. This recipe is a bit different: A ball of pea -
nut butter and powdered sugar is added to the middle of each 
cupcake before baking. It softens as the cake bakes, creating 
a molten middle of sweet peanut butter. Serve these cupcakes 
warm with vanilla ice cream.
1. Double up 16 foil muffin cups to make 8 cups. Spray each 
lightly with nonstick spray; set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the cake mix, egg, egg yolk, 
safflower oil, water, and sour cream, and beat until combined.
3. In a small bowl, combine the peanut butter and powdered 
sugar and mix well. Form this mixture into 8 balls.
4. Spoon about ¼ cup of the chocolate batter into each muffin 
cup and top with a peanut butter ball. Spoon remaining 
batter on top of the peanut butter balls to cover them.
5. Arrange the cups in the air fryer basket, leaving some space 
between each. Bake for 10 to 13 minutes or until the tops 
look dry and set.
6. Let the cupcakes cool for about 10 minutes, then serve warm.
Ingredient tip:  Save the rest of the chocolate cake mix in a sealed heavy-
duty plastic bag. Be sure to mark it with the date that you used it. Use it 
within two weeks—maybe to make more batches of this recipe!
Per serving: Calories: 195; Total Fat: 15g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Cholesterol: 51mg; Sodium: 158mg; 
Carbohydrates: 13g; Fiber: <1g; Protein: 4g139 DESSERTSChocolate Peanut Butter 
Bread Pudding
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 TO 12 MINUTES / SERVES 8
Bread pudding is the ultimate comfort food. The addition 
of chocolate and peanut butter adds a subtle richness to this 
 recipe and intensiﬁes the ﬂavors. Serve with heavy whipped 
cream to double the indulgence.
1. Spray a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with nonstick spray.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the egg, egg yolk, chocolate 
milk, cocoa, brown sugar, peanut butter, and vanilla, and 
mix until combined. Stir in the bread cubes and let soak 
for 10 minutes.
3. Spoon this mixture into the prepared pan. Bake for 10 to 
12 minutes or until the pudding is firm to the touch.
Substitution tip:  Use different types of bread in this recipe. You could use 
cubed doughnuts, or try a quick bread such as banana bread or peanut 
butter bread.
Per serving: Calories: 102; Total Fat: 5g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Cholesterol: 50mg; Sodium: 90mg; 
Carbohydrates: 11g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
1 egg
1 egg yolk
¾ cup chocolate 
milk
2 tablespoons 
cocoa powder
3 tablespoons 
brown sugar
3 tablespoons 
peanut butter
1 teaspoon 
vanilla
5 slices ﬁrm 
white bread, 
cubed330°F  
Bake140 THE COMPLETE AIR FRYER COOKBOOKFast, Family 
Favorite, 
Vegetarian
Nonstick baking 
spray with 
ﬂour
3 tablespoons 
softened 
butter
⅓ cup plus 
1 tablespoon 
brown sugar
1 egg yolk
½ cup ﬂour
2 tablespoons 
ground white 
chocolate
¼ teaspoon 
baking soda
½ teaspoon 
vanilla
¾ cup chocolate 
chips300°F  
BakeBig Chocolate Chip Cookie
PREP TIME: 7 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 9 MINUTES / SERVES 4
Everyone loves chocolate chip cookies. But have you ever made 
one that was 6 inches in diameter? This fun recipe makes one big 
cookie that serves four people. Everyone breaks off a piece to 
enjoy. This cookie is especially wonderful served warm.
1. In medium bowl, beat the butter and brown sugar together 
until fluffy. Stir in the egg yolk.
2. Add the flour, white chocolate, baking soda, and vanilla, and 
mix well. Stir in the chocolate chips.
3. Line a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with parchment paper. 
Spray the parchment paper with nonstick baking spray 
with flour.
4. Spread the batter into the prepared pan, leaving a ½-inch 
border on all sides.
5. Bake for about 9 minutes or until the cookie is light brown 
and just barely set.
6. Remove the pan from the air fryer and let cool for 
10 minutes. Remove the cookie from the pan, remove the 
parchment paper, and let cool on a wire rack.
Substitution tip:  You can use other types of chocolate chips in this recipe. 
Try milk chocolate chips or butterscotch chips. Or add about ¼ cup 
chopped pecans or cashews when you stir in the chocolate chips.
Per serving: Calories: 309; Total Fat: 22g; Saturated Fat: 14g; Cholesterol: 84mg; 
Sodium: 178mg; Carbohydrates: 49g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 5g141 DESSERTSFrosted Peanut Butter Cookie
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES / COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES / SERVES 4
A giant peanut butter cookie topped with melted chocolate is 
the perfect dessert on a weeknight. Eat this cookie warm while 
the frosting is still soft for an indulgent treat.
1. In a medium bowl, beat the butter and brown sugar together 
until fluffy. Stir in the egg yolk.
2. Add the flour, 3 tablespoons of the peanut butter, the baking 
soda, and vanilla, and mix well.
3. Line a 6-by-6-by-2-inch baking pan with parchment paper.
4. Spread the batter into the prepared pan, leaving a ½-inch 
border on all sides.
5. Bake for 7 to 10 minutes or until the cookie is light brown 
and just barely set.
6. Remove the pan from the air fryer and let cool for 
10 minutes. Remove the cookie from the pan, remove the 
parchment paper, and let cool on a wire rack.
7. In a small heatproof cup, combine the chocolate chips with 
the remaining 2 tablespoons of peanut butter. Bake for 1 to 
2 minutes or until the chips are melted. Stir to combine and 
spread on the cookie.
Variation tip:  You can double or triple this recipe. You can also serve the 
cookie unfrosted, or combine 2 tablespoons soft butter, 2 tablespoons 
peanut butter, and ½ cup powdered sugar, mix well, and use to frost 
the cookie.
Per serving: Calories: 481; Total Fat: 28g; Saturated Fat: 13g; Cholesterol: 75mg; Sodium: 239mg; 
Carbohydrates: 52g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 8gFamily Favorite, 
Vegetarian
3 tablespoons 
butter, 
at room 
temperature
⅓ cup plus 
1 tablespoon 
brown sugar
1 egg yolk
⅔ cup ﬂour
5 tablespoons 
peanut butter, 
divided
¼ teaspoon 
baking soda
1 teaspoon 
vanilla
½ cup 
semisweet 
chocolate 
chips310°F 
Bake143APPENDIX A  
The Dirty Dozen and the Clean Fifteen
A nonprofit and environmental 
watchdog organization called  
Environmental Working Group 
(EWG) looks at data supplied by 
the U.S. Department of Agricul -
ture (USDA) and the Food and 
Drug Administration (FDA) about 
pesticide residues and compiles 
a list each year of the lowest and 
highest pesticide loads found in 
commercial crops. You can refer 
to the Dirty Dozen list to know 
which fruits and vegetables you 
should always buy organic. The 
Clean Fifteen list tells you which 
produce is considered safe 
enough when grown convention -
ally to allow you to skip the 
organics. This does not mean 
that the Clean Fifteen produce is 
 pesticide-free, though, so wash 
these fruits and vegetables 
thoroughly. These lists change 
every year, so make sure you look 
up the most recent list before 
you fill your shopping cart. You’ll 
find the most current as well as a 
guide to pesticides in produce at 
www.EWG.org/FoodNews.DIRTY DOZEN
Apples
Celery
Cherry tomatoes 
Cucumbers
Grapes
Nectarines
Peaches
Potatoes
Snap peas
Spinach
Strawberries
Sweet bell peppers
In addition to the Dirty 
Dozen, the EWG added 
two foods contaminated 
with highly toxic  
organo-phosphate 
insecticides:
Hot peppers
Kale/Collard greensCLEAN FIFTEEN
Asparagus
Avocados
Cabbage
Cantaloupe
Cauliﬂower
Eggplant
Grapefruit
Kiwis
Mangos
Onions
Papayas
Pineapples
Sweet corn
Sweet peas (frozen)
Sweet potatoes144APPENDIX B  
Conversion Tables
Volume Equivalents (Liquid)
US STANDARD US STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 ﬂ. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 ﬂ. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 ﬂ. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 ﬂ. oz. 240 mL
1 ½ cups 12 ﬂ. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 ﬂ. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 ﬂ. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 ﬂ. oz. 4 L
Volume Equivalents (Dry)
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
⅛ teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
⅓ cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 L
½ gallon 2 L
1 gallon 4 LOven Temperatures
FAHRENHEIT (F) CELSIUS (C) 
(APPROXIMATE)
250 120
300 150
325 165
350 180
375 190
400 200
425 220
450 230
Weight Equivalents
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or  
1 pound455 g145Resources
Most manuals for air fryers can be downloaded from the Web. It can be helpful to download manuals 
for air fryers different from the one you own, to get more ideas and tips.
• Manual for Philips HD9220/20  is found at http://www.p4c.philips.com/cgi-bin/cpindex.pl?ctn=  
HD9220/20&scy=GB&slg=ENG, and includes a user manual, quick start guide, and recipe booklet.
• The GLiP Oil-less Air Fryer Instruction Manual  at http://www.homedepot.com/catalog/pdfImages  
/1f/1f683ead-1ebd-414d-add0-2d5a6ce0922e.pdf includes a helpful chart for cooking meats, 
potatoes, and snacks.
• The Bellini Digital Air Fryer manual  is found at http://www.belliniappliances.com/electrical  
/documents/BTDF950_U&C_140730a.pdf and includes tips on maintenance and troubleshooting, 
as well as a cooking chart.
• The GoWISE USA Air Fryer Instruction manual  is found at http://airfryerchips.com/wp-content  
/uploads/2015/10/GW22621_AirFryer_Manual.pdf and contains instructions for cleaning, trouble -
shooting, and a cooking guide.
• The Todd English Air Fryer Manual  is found at http://www.manualslib.com/manual/975498/Todd  
-English-Teaf919.html?page=8#manual and includes quite a few easy recipes.
Some websites have delicious and easy recipes for the air fryer.
• HotAirFrying.com  is maintained by Philips Air Fryers. This site includes ideas for using the 
air fryer in new ways, along with recipes for foods such as Crispy Jalapeño Poppers, Air Fried 
 Tomatoes, and Green Curry Noodles.
• Australian Allrecipes.com  (http://allrecipes.com.au) has a number of their top-rated, viewer-  
reviewed air fryer recipes, including Crumbed Chicken Tenderloins, Chocolate Cake in an Air 
Fryer, and Schnitzel Parmigiana.
• Youtube.com  has quite a few videos showing exactly how to make many different recipes 
in the air fryer. Some of the recipes online include Spicy Roast Chicken, Bread Pakora, and 
Chicken Tandoori.
• TheDallasSocials.com  is a blog all about the air fryer, with more than 100 recipes, such as Roasted 
Mushrooms, Mashed Potato Tater Tots, Fried Calamari, and Spicy Tuna Roll.
• Airfry.blogspot.com  has some interesting and unusual vegetarian Indian recipes for the air fryer. 
They include Veggie Fingers, Falafel, and Cheese Spinach Balls.146Recipe Index
A
Apple Peach Cranberry 
Crisp, 133
Arancini, 60
Asian Steamed Tuna, 76
Asian Turkey Meatballs, 85
Asparagus Strata, 25
B
Bacon Garlic Pizza, 114
Bacon Tater Tots, 64
Barbecued Chicken Thighs, 93
Beef and Mango Skewers, 55
Beef Korma, 104
Big Chocolate Chip Cookie, 140
Black and White Brownies, 137
Black Forest Hand Pies, 135
Buffalo Chicken Bites, 68
Buttermilk Fried Chicken, 94
C
Cheese-Stuffed Meatballs, 108
Chicken à la King, 50
Chicken Cordon Bleu, 97
Chicken Fajitas, 91
Chicken-Fried Steak, 112
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Chicken Satay, 88
Chicken Tenders with 
Veggies, 99
Chocolate-Filled Doughnut 
Holes, 33
Chocolate Peanut Butter 
Bread Pudding, 139
Chocolate Peanut Butter 
Molten Cupcakes, 138
Coconut Shrimp, 80
Crab Ratatouille, 73
Cranberry Beignets, 30Creamy Corn Casserole, 129
Crispy Beef Cubes, 67
Crispy Herbed Salmon, 75
Crispy Mustard Pork 
Tenderloin, 117
Crispy Parmesan French 
Fries, 126
Curried Sweet Potato Fries, 56
D
Dutch Pancake, 31
Dutch Pancake with Shrimp 
Salsa, 47
E
English Muffin Tuna 
Sandwiches, 43
F
Fish and Chips, 81
Fried Tortellini with Spicy 
Dipping Sauce, 62
Frosted Peanut Butter 
Cookie, 141
G
Garlic and Sesame Carrots, 122
Garlic-Roasted Chicken with 
Creamer Potatoes, 95–96
Grilled Curried Fruit, 132
H
Ham and Cheese Stuffed 
Chicken Burgers, 98
Hard-Cooked Eggs, 24
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Herbed Vegetable Mélange, 120J
Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms, 38
L
Lemon Pork Tenderloin, 116
M
Marble Cheesecake, 136
Meatballs in Spicy Tomato 
Sauce, 109
Mexican Pizza, 110
Mixed Berry Muffins, 29
Monkey Bread, 32
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
O
Omelette in Bread Cups, 28
Orange Cornmeal Cake, 134
Orange Curried Chicken 
Stir-Fry, 89
P
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Pesto Gnocchi, 42
Phyllo Artichoke Triangles, 58
Q
Quick Paella, 72
R
Rice and Meatball Stuffed Bell 
Peppers, 105
Roasted Bell Peppers with 
Garlic, 123
Roasted Brussels Sprouts, 124147 RECIPE  INDEXRoasted Potato Salad, 128
Roasted Veggie Chicken 
Salad, 84
S
Savory Roasted 
Sweet Potatoes, 125
Scalloped Potatoes, 127
Scallops and Spring Veggies, 78
Scotch Eggs, 27
Seafood Tacos, 74
Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Shrimp and Rice Frittata, 26
Shrimp Croquettes, 46
Shrimp Toast, 63
Snapper Scampi, 79
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90
Spicy Kale Chips with Yogurt 
Sauce, 57
Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry, 102
Spinach Dip with Bread 
Knots, 59
Spinach Quiche, 40
Steamed Green Veggie Trio, 121
Steamed Pot Stickers, 54
Steamed Scallops with Dill, 48
Stir-Fried Chicken with 
Pineapple, 86
Stir-Fried Steak and 
Cabbage, 106
Sweet and Hot Bacon and Bell 
Pepper Sandwiches, 51
Sweet and Hot 
Chicken Wings, 69
Sweet-and-Sour Drumsticks, 87
Sweet-and-Sour Polish 
Sausage, 115T
Tender Country Ribs, 113
Tex-Mex Steak, 111
Tex-Mex Turkey Burgers, 92
Thai Burgers, 103
Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
Tuna Zucchini Melts, 44
U
Unstuffed Cabbage, 107
V
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
Veggies on Toast, 37
W
Waffle Fry Poutine, 66
Y
Yellow Squash Fritters, 41148Index
A
Adobo sauce
Tex-Mex Steak, 111
Air fryer, cleaning and caring 
for, 20–21
Air frying
cooking chart, 13–17
problem solving, 19–20
safety and, 19
step-by-step, 11–12
Alfredo sauce
Chicken à la King, 50
Appetizers
Arancini, 60
Bacon Tater Tots, 64
Beef and Mango Skewers, 55
Buffalo Chicken Bites, 68
Crispy Beef Cubes, 67
Curried Sweet Potato Fries, 56
Fried Tortellini with Spicy 
Dipping Sauce, 62
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Phyllo Artichoke Triangles, 58
Shrimp Toast, 63
Spicy Kale Chips with Yogurt 
Sauce, 57
Spinach Dip with Bread 
Knots, 59
Steamed Pot Stickers, 54
Sweet and Hot Chicken 
Wings, 69
Waffle Fry Poutine, 66
Artichoke hearts
Phyllo, Triangles, 58
Quick Paella, 72
Asparagus
Scallops and Spring Veggies, 78
Strata, 25
Avocados
Seafood Tacos, 74B
Bacon
Garlic Pizza, 114
Omelette in Bread Cups, 28
Sweet and Hot, and Bell Pepper 
Sandwiches, 51
Tater Tots, 64
Barbecued Chicken Thighs, 93
Beef
air frying cooking chart, 15, 16
and Mango Skewers, 55
Cheese-Stuffed Meatballs, 108
Chicken-Fried Steak, 112
Crispy, Cubes, 67
Korma, 104
Meatballs in Spicy Tomato 
Sauce, 109
Spicy Thai, Stir-Fry, 102
Stir-Fried Steak and 
Cabbage, 106
Tex-Mex Steak, 111
Thai Burgers, 103
Beignets, Cranberry, 30
Berries
Mixed Berry Muffins, 29
Bread crumbs
Buffalo Chicken Bites, 68
Buttermilk Fried Chicken, 94
Cheese-Stuffed Meatballs, 108
Chicken Cordon Bleu, 97
Chicken-Fried Steak, 112
Coconut Shrimp, 80
Crispy Mustard Pork 
Tenderloin, 117
Scotch Eggs, 27
Bread cubes
Chocolate Peanut Butter Bread 
Pudding, 139
Breads
Chocolate-Filled Doughnut 
Holes, 33
Cranberry Beignets, 30Mixed Berry Muffins, 29
Monkey Bread, 32
Breakfast
Asparagus Strata, 25
Chocolate-Filled Doughnut 
Holes, 33
Cranberry Beignets, 30
Dutch Pancake, 31
Hard-Cooked Eggs, 24
Mixed Berry Muffins, 29
Monkey Bread, 32
Omelette in Bread Cups, 28
Scotch Eggs, 27
Shrimp and Rice Frittata, 26
Broccoli
Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry, 102
Steamed Green Veggie Trio, 121
Brussels sprouts
Roasted, 124
Burgers. See also  Sandwiches
Ham and Cheese Stuffed 
Chicken, 98
Tex-Mex Turkey, 92
Thai, 103
Buttermilk
Buttermilk Fried Chicken, 94
Chicken-Fried Steak, 112
C
Cabbage. See also  Red cabbage
Steamed Pot Stickers, 54
Stir-Fried Steak and, 106
Unstuffed, 107
Carrots
Chicken Tenders with 
Veggies, 99
Garlic and Sesame, 122
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
Yellow Squash Fritters, 41
Cauliflower, air frying cooking 
chart, 14149 INDEXCheddar cheese
Bacon Garlic Pizza, 114
Bacon Tater Tots, 64
Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Tuna Zucchini Melts, 44
Cheese. See Cheddar cheese; 
Colby cheese; Goat cheese; 
Havarti cheese; Jack cheese; 
Mozzarella cheese; Ricotta 
cheese; Swiss cheese
Cherries
Black Forest Hand Pies, 135
Cherry tomatoes
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Chicken
air frying cooking chart, 15
à la King, 50
Barbecued, Thighs, 93
Buffalo, Bites, 68
Buttermilk Fried, 94
Cordon Bleu, 97
Fajitas, 91
Fried Steak, 112
Garlic-Roasted, with Creamer 
Potatoes, 95–96
Ham and Cheese Stuffed, 
Burgers, 98
Orange Curried, Stir-Fry, 89
Pita Sandwiches, 49
Roasted Veggie, Salad, 84
Satay, 88
Spicy, Stir-Fry, 90
Stir-Fried, with Pineapple, 86
Sweet and Hot, Wings, 69
Sweet and Sour Drumsticks, 87
Tenders with Veggies, 99
Chicken sausage
Scotch Eggs, 27
Chipotle peppers
Tex-Mex Steak, 111
Chocolate
Black Forest Hand pies, 135
bread pudding, 139
brownies, 137
cheesecake, marble, 136chocolate chips, 140
chocolate/peanut butter, 138, 
139, 141
cocoa powder, 137
cookies, 140, 141
cupcakes, 138
doughnut holes, 33
milk, 139
Chocolate, white
Big Chocolate Chip Cookie, 140
Black and White Brownies, 137
Clean Fifteen, 143
Colby cheese
Mexican Pizza, 110
Conversion Tables, 144
Corn
Creamy, Casserole, 129
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90
Cranberries
Apple Peach, Crisp, 133
Beignets, 30
Cream cheese
Marble Cheesecake, 136
Spinach Dip with Bread 
Knots, 59
D
Desserts
Apple Peach Cranberry 
Crisp, 133
Big Chocolate Chip Cookie, 140
Black and White Brownies, 137
Black Forest Hand Pies, 135
Chocolate Peanut Butter  
Bread Pudding, 139
Chocolate Peanut Butter 
Molten Cupcakes, 138
Frosted Peanut Butter 
Cookie, 141
Grilled Curried Fruit, 132
Marble Cheesecake, 136
Orange Cornmeal Cake, 134
Dirty Dozen, 143E
Eggplant
air frying cooking chart, 14
Crab Ratatouille, 73
Eggs
Asparagus Strata, 25
Dutch Pancake, 31
Hard-Cooked Eggs, 24
Omelette in Bread Cups, 28
Scotch Eggs, 27
Shrimp and Rice Frittata, 26
Spinach Quiche, 40
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
F
Fajitas
Chicken, 91
Fish and seafood
air frying cooking chart, 16
Asian Steamed Tuna, 76
Coconut Shrimp, 80
Crab Ratatouille, 74
Crispy Herbed Salmon, 75
Dutch Pancake with Shrimp 
Salsa, 47
Fish and Chips, 81
Quick Paella, 72
Scallops and Spring Veggies, 78
Seafood Tacos, 74
Shrimp and Rice Frittata, 26
Shrimp Croquettes, 46
Shrimp Toast, 63
Snapper Scampi, 79
Steamed Scallops with Dill, 48
Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
French bread
Chicken à la King, 50
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Veggies on Toast, 37
Frittata
Shrimp and Rice, 26
Fritters
Yellow Squash, 41
Fruits. See also  specific name
Dirty Dozen and Clean 
Fifteen, 143150 INDEXG
Garlic
and Sesame Carrots, 122
Roasted Bell Peppers with, 123
Roasted Chicken with Creamer 
Potatoes, 95–96
Gnocchi, Pesto, 42
Goat cheese: Veggies on 
Toast, 37
Grape tomatoes
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Greek yogurt: Spicy Kale Chips 
with Yogurt Sauce, 57
Green beans
air frying cooking chart, 14
Steamed Green Veggie  
Trio, 121
Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
Green onions
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Roasted Potato Salad, 128
Shrimp Croquettes, 46
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
Veggies on Toast, 37
H
Ham
and Cheese Stuffed Chicken 
Burgers, 98
Chicken Cordon Bleu, 97
Havarti cheese
Ham and Cheese Stuffed 
Chicken Burgers, 98
J
Jack cheese
Mexican Pizza, 110
Tex-Mex Turkey Burgers, 92
Jalapeño peppers
Mexican Pizza, 110
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90K
Kale
Spicy, Chips with Yogurt 
Sauce, 57
L
Lemongrass
Asian Steamed Tuna, 76
Lunch
Chicken à la King, 50
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Dutch Pancake with Shrimp 
Salsa, 47
English Muffin Tuna 
Sandwiches, 43
Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms, 38
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
Pesto Gnocchi, 42
Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Shrimp Croquettes, 42
Spinach Quiche, 40
Steamed Scallops with Dill, 48
Sweet and Hot Bacon and Bell 
Pepper Sandwiches, 51
Tuna Zucchini Melts, 44
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
Veggies on Toast, 37
Yellow Squash Fritters, 41
M
Maillard reaction, 12
Meatballs
air frying cooking chart, 15–16
Asian Turkey, 85
Cheese-Stuffed, 108
Mexican Pizza, 110
Rice and, Stuffed Bell 
Peppers, 105
Spicy Tomato Sauce, in, 109
Unstuffed Cabbage, 107
Monounsaturated fatty acids 
(MUFAs), 18Mozzarella cheese
Arancini, 60
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
Pesto Bruschetta, 61
Phyllo Artichoke Triangles, 58
Muffins
Mixed Berry, 29
Mushrooms
Chicken à la King, 50
Herbed Vegetable Mélange, 120
Jumbo Stuffed, 38
Pita Pizzas, 39
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36
Veggies on Toast, 37
O
Oatmeal
Apple Peach Cranberry 
Crisp, 133
Oils, healthy, 18
Olive oil, 18
Onions. See also  Green onions; 
Red onions
air frying cooking chart, 14
P
Parmesan cheese
Arancini, 60
Crispy Parmesan French 
Fries, 126
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms, 38
Pesto Gnocchi, 42
Roasted Brussels Sprouts, 124
Savory Roasted Sweet 
Potatoes, 125
Spinach Dip with Bread 
Knots, 59
Peaches
Apple, Cranberry Crisp, 133
Grilled Curried Fruit, 132151 INDEXPeanut butter
Chicken Satay, 88
Chocolate, Molten 
Cupcakes, 138
Chocolate, Pudding, 139
Frosted, Cookie, 141
Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry, 102
Peanut sauce
Thai Burgers, 103
Pears
Grilled Curried Fruit, 132
Peas. See also  Sugar snap peas
Beef Korma, 104
Steamed Green Veggie Trio, 121
Peppers. See also  Chipotle 
peppers; Jalapeño peppers
Peppers, bell
Orange Curried Chicken 
Stir-Fry, 89
Rice and Meatball Stuffed Bell 
Peppers, 105
Roasted Bell Peppers with 
Garlic, 123
Roasted Veggie Chicken 
Salad, 84
Stir-Fried Steak and 
Cabbage, 106
Peppers, chile
Mexican Pizza, 110
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90
Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry, 102 
Peppers, red bell
Chicken à la King, 50
Chicken Fajitas, 91
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Crab Ratatouille, 73
Herbed Vegetable Mélange, 120
Roasted Bell Peppers with 
Garlic, 123
Roasted Potato Salad, 128
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90
Stir-Fried Chicken with 
Pineapple, 86
Sweet and Hot Bacon  
and Bell Pepper 
Sandwiches, 51Sweet and Sour Polish 
Sausage, 115
Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
Veggies on Toast, 37
Waffle Fry Poutine, 66
Pineapple
Coconut Shrimp, 80
Stir-Fried Chicken with, 86
Pita Bread
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Mexican Pizza, 110
Mushroom Pita Pizzas, 39
Sweet and Hot Bacon and Bell 
Pepper Sandwiches, 51
Pizzas
Bacon Garlic, 114
Mexican, 110
Mushroom Pita, 39
Plums
Grilled Curried Fruit, 132
Pork
air frying cooking chart, 15
Crispy Mustard Pork 
Tenderloin, 117
Lemon Pork Tenderloin, 116
Tender Country Ribs, 113
Potatoes
air frying cooking chart, 13–14
Bacon Tater Tots, 64
Chicken Tenders with 
Veggies, 99
Crispy Parmesan French 
Fries, 126
Fish and Chips, 81
Garlic-Roasted Chicken with 
Creamer, 95–96
Hash Brown Bruschetta, 65
Roasted, Salad, 128
Scalloped, 127
Waffle Fry Pontine, 66
Puff pastry: Black Forest Hand 
Pies, 135
Q
Quiche
Spinach, 40R
Red cabbage
Seafood Tacos, 74
Red onions
Chicken Fajitas, 91
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
Roasted Veggie Chicken 
Salad, 84
Refried beans
Mexican Pizza, 110
Resources, 145
Rice
Arancini, 60
Quick Paella, 72
Rice and Meatball Stuffed  
Bell Peppers, 105
Shimp and, Frittata, 26
Unstuffed Cabbage, 107
Ricotta cheese
Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms, 38
Phyllo Artichoke Triangles, 58
S
Salads
Roasted Potato, 128
Roasted Veggie Chicken, 84
Salmon
Crispy Herbed, 75
Sandwiches. See also  Burgers
Chicken Pita Sandwiches, 49
English Muffin Tuna 
Sandwiches, 43
Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Sweet and Hot Bacon  
and Bell Pepper 
Sandwiches, 51
Tuna Zucchini Melts, 44
Sausage
Sweet and Sour Polish, 115
Scallops
and Spring Veggies, 78
Steamed, with Dill, 48152 INDEXShrimp
Coconut, 80
Croquettes, 46
Dutch Pancake with, Salsa, 47
and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Quick Paella, 72
and Rice Frittata, 26
Toast, 63
Spinach
Dip with Bread Knots, 59
Jumbo Stuffed Mushrooms, 38
Quiche, 40
Shrimp and Rice Frittata, 26
Squash, summer
Herbed Vegetable Mélange, 120
Roasted Veggie Chicken 
Salad, 84
Yellow Squash Fritters, 41
Stir-Fries
Orange Curried Chicken 
Stir-Fry, 89
Spicy Chicken Stir-Fry, 90
Spicy Thai Beef Stir-Fry, 102
Stir-Fried Chicken with 
Pineapple, 86
Stir-Fried Steak and 
Cabbage, 106
Tuna Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
Strawberries
Dutch Pancake, 31
Sugar snap peas
Scallops and Spring Veggies, 78
Sweet potatoes
Curried, Fries, 56
Savory Roasted, 125
Swiss cheese
Asparagus Strata, 25
Chicken Cordon Bleu, 97
Creamy Corn Casserole, 129
Omelette in Bread Cups, 28
Spinach Dip with Bread 
Knots, 59
Spinach Quiche, 40
Waffle Fry Pontine, 66T
Tacos
Seafood, 74
Tomatoes. See also  Cherry 
tomatoes; Grape tomatoes
air frying cooking chart, 14
Beef Korma, 104
Crab Ratatouille, 73
Quick Paella, 72
Sweet and Hot Bacon and Bell 
Pepper Sandwiches, 51
Thai Burgers, 103
Unstuffed Cabbage, 107
Tortellini
Fried Tortellini with Spicy 
Dipping Sauce, 62
Tortillas
Seafood Tacos, 74
Tuna Zucchini Melts, 44
Tuna
Asian Steamed, 76
English Muffin, Sandwiches, 43
Veggie Stir-Fry, 77
Zucchini Melts, 44
Turkey
Asian, Meatballs, 85
Tex-Mex, Burgers, 92
Turkey sausage
Scotch Eggs, 27
V
Vegetables. See also  specific name
Dirty Dozen and Clean 
Fifteen, 143
Vegetables and Sides
Creamy Corn Casserole, 129
Crispy Parmesan French 
Fries, 126
Garlic and Sesame Carrots, 122
Herbed Vegetable Mélange, 120
Roasted Bell Peppers with 
Garlic, 123
Roasted Brussels Sprouts, 124
Roasted Potato Salad, 128Savory Roasted Sweet 
Potatoes, 125
Scalloped Potatoes, 127
Steamed Green Veggie Trio, 121
W
Whole-wheat bread
Asparagus Strata, 25
Shrimp and Grilled Cheese 
Sandwiches, 45
Z
Zucchini
air frying cooking chart, 14
Tuna, Melts, 44
Vegetable Egg Rolls, 36