1
CHAPTER 1
Getting Started
Even if you’ve never pickled before, this book will show you how easy it is to get 
started. Pickling is simply a method of food preservation that involves marinating 
vegetables in a brine, made with either vinegar or salt. The marinating time depends 
on the method and can range from mere minutes to days or months. For pickling 
newbies, starting with quick pickles is probably the best route. You’ll find lots of 
recipes to choose from in chapter 2.
Generally, pickling involves the following basic steps:
1. Wash your equipment with hot soapy water.
2. Prepare your vegetables.
3. Prepare your brine and spices.
4. Pack into jars and cover.
5. Wait!2 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEWHAT IS A PICKLE?
Pickle is a noun and a verb. You can “pickle” just about any food to make it 
a “pickle,” from a sauce to vegetables to eggs and fish. They’re united under 
the “pickle” umbrella by what preserves them: salt (which is sometimes mixed with 
water to form a brine), acid (such as vinegar or citrus), and occasionally oil.
Fermenting is simply one type of pickling. The salty brine and healthy bacteria 
(lactobacilli) produce lactic acid during fermentation. This process can take 
anywhere from a few days to months. During fermentation, the chemical process 
expands and deepens existing flavors and adds new ones, all while providing the 
added benefits of probiotics.
Quick pickles (also called fresh or refrigerator pickles) can be eaten imme -
diately after a quick bath in salt, sugar, and/ or vinegar. Sometimes they need an 
extra few hours or a day or two to ripen. At this point, I’ll take the opportunity to 
explore the different pickling techniques used in this book and briefly explain what 
distinguishes them and what unites them.
VINEGAR
Quick pickles like Pickled Daikon and Carrots (page 26) and Sweet-and-Sour 
Chinese Mustard Cabbage Pickle (page 30) are examples of vinegar pickles. The 
acetic acid in vinegar preserves food by increasing the acidity in the vegetables. 
This increase in acidity kills off any existing microorganisms, slows down decay, 
and helps prevent short-term spoilage.
Some vinegar-pickled foods can be eaten right away, but others will taste better 
after a longer bath to allow the flavors to develop. Either way, it still takes less time 
than fermentation.
Quick pickles last for 1 to 2 months in the refrigerator, if you can make them last 
that long. In general, vinegar-brined pickles are the best for canning. (I’ve added 
“Yes you can!” tips to recipes that are proven safe for canning.) Fermented foods, 
on the other hand, should not be canned, because the high heat used in canning 
kills the healthy bacteria produced during fermentation.
SALT
Not all salted pickles are fermented, but many of them are. Classic Cabbage 
Kimchi (page 86), Miso-Cured Daikon (page 29), and Salt-Pickled Vegetables 
(page 48) are examples of pickles that are preserved primarily with salt, though 
vinegar (or another acid) might also be an ingredient. Keep in mind that salty 
ingredients, like soy sauce or miso, can also preserve foods.3 Getting StartedSalt draws water out of the vegetables being pickled and forms a brine that 
makes it harder for harmful bacteria to grow. Salt also acts as a preservative during 
this process by encouraging the growth of  Lactobacillus plantarum . These probiotic 
“good” bacteria convert sugars into lactic acid, which preserves the produce and 
adds tanginess.
Temperature is also an important factor in the growth of good bacteria and 
proper fermentation. Optimum fermenting temperatures range between 65°F and 
75°F. This range is slow enough for the complex flavors to develop while retaining 
the pickles’ texture and allows you to enjoy the ferments within 2 to 6 weeks. 
Lactofermentation speeds up at warmer temperatures.
Fermented food does not need to be refrigerated. But the vegetables will 
 continue to ferment and increase in sourness, so you might want to refrigerate 
them or store them in a cool location like the basement or the garage (in cooler 
climates) to significantly slow down the rate of fermentation. Fermented foods 
can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 months or even longer without losing 
their quality and good taste.
OIL
Indian pickles are often preserved using oil. Fiery Lime Pickle (page 70) and Green 
Mango Pickle (page 66) are two examples. Oil provides an airtight seal that can 
delay oxidation, prevent spoilage, and keep mold from growing. Mustard oil is the 
oil of choice in India for its spicy, wasabi-like flavor. I delve more deeply into this in 
Pickle Passport: India on page 54, but the sale of mustard oil for edible purposes is 
prohibited in the United States because it contains erucic acid, which is linked to 
cardiac damage in lab tests. I call for other oils in my recipes. Oil-preserved pickles 
last for 6 months at room temperature or up to 1 year in the refrigerator.
PLAYING NICE WITH SUGAR AND SPICE
Sugar and spices can have antimicrobial effects and thus help preserve food, too. 
Think of how sugar is used to preserve fruit and jams. Sugar gets a bad rap, but 
many of these recipes include just a little to mellow what would otherwise be a 
too-tart pickle, like Pickled Sunchokes (page 138).
In fact, many spices, such as clove, mustard seed, cinnamon, and cumin, 
have significant antibacterial and antifungal properties that help prevent food 
spoilage. In addition, pickles like Turmeric-Spiced Pickles (page 34) and Fiery 
Lime Pickle (page 70) get their distinctive flavor from these spices.4 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEA QUICK HISTORY
Although its history is fuzzy, pickling is likely to have originated in the Indus Valley 
civilization in northwest India around 2400 BCE. The earliest mention of kimchi 
appears in Chinese poetry texts 3,000 years ago.
Pickling started off as a way to preserve nonseasonal food through the winter 
and for long journeys. Drying, the first method of preservation, worked well for 
meat and fish, but salting and fermenting vegetables became ideal for taste, 
texture, and nutrition.
Local ingredients and climate influenced the types of pickles that became 
popular, from chutneys in India to miso-pickled eggs in Japan. Take mangos, for 
instance. They are considered the national fruit of India and are beloved by many. 
It’s not surprising that mangos were combined with a plethora of indigenous spices 
to make preserved foods like mango chutney and mango pickles. In Japan, miso 
and soy sauce are integral parts of the country’s cuisine. Hence, they are also 
popular pickling agents. Pungency is valued in Korean cuisine, which is why you 
can find strong flavors in tangy kimchi and other fermented foods like soybean 
paste and chile paste. Thus, pickling is a delicious reflection of the culture and 
history of a given country.5 Getting Started
Introduc Ing the Pickle Pass Port
Throughout the book, you’ll find a feature called the Pickle 
Passport. In these sections, you’ll find a more detailed portrait of 
the pickling traditions in five different Asian countries and regions 
where pickling is a major component of the culinary history. 
You’ll also find some must-try pickles, a rundown of the pickling 
techniques employed there, and extra information about how 
and when pickles are consumed. Consider it the Tour de Pickle! If 
you’re interested in a specific country or region, here are the ones 
we discuss and the pages where you’ll find them:
Japan , page 6
Southeast Asia , page 24
India , page 54
Korea , page 84
China , page 120
6 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
PICKLE PASSPORT: JAPAN
Must-try pickles: Rice Bran Pickles (page 96), Pickled Ginger (page 42),  
Salt-Pickled Vegetables (page 48), Miso-Cured Daikon (page 29)
Of all the Asian countries, Japan has the most expansive range of 
pickling mediums and methods. They vary from a simple salting or 
vinegar brining to more complicated processes involving cultured 
molds and fermentation.
In Japan, the term tsukemono  refers to all preserved or fer -
mented foods. In the days before refrigeration, pickling was used 
as a method to preserve food, and some traditionally prepared 
pickles can be kept almost indefinitely. While the origins of 
tsukemono are unclear, it is not surprising that preserving food in 
salt or saltwater is a longstanding practice. Japan is an archipelago 
surrounded by the ocean, after all. More specifically, the Engi-shiki , 
or Procedures of the Engi Era,  a compilation of administrative rules 
created in the 10th century, listed different varieties of tsukemono 
and the best ways to make them. Pickling methods were devel -
oped at that time to store food to prevent famine in times of poor 
harvest, to preserve extra food during abundant harvests, and to 
improve the flavor of food.
Tsukemono are usually made from popular local produce like 
daikon radishes, cucumbers, eggplant, carrots, cabbage, ginger, 
and plums (ume). Sometimes seaweed and seafood are added to 
pickle mixtures for flavor and variety. Tsukemono are an essential 
part of the Japanese meal, served alongside rice and miso soup 
because they add color, texture, and taste as a relish, condiment, 
or palate cleanser. In addition, they provide probiotics, vitamins, 7 Getting Started
and minerals. They are also often eaten at the end of a meal to 
aid digestion.
The simplest pickling method is to salt vegetables before mas -
saging them and draining any liquids. These pickles can be eaten 
immediately. On the other end of the spectrum is the traditional 
Japanese technique of fermenting vegetables in a pickling bed 
that can take weeks to prepare. Pickling beds can be used for 
pickling all manner of vegetables, from cucumbers to eggplant, and 
they produce pickles ranging from mild to pungent, depending on 
how long the vegetables spend “in bed.”
The first step is to make a fermented bed that forms the 
medium for the pickling bed, which is usually made from roasted 
rice bran or rice koji, cooked rice that’s been inoculated with the 
mold Aspergillus oryzae  (see page 104). Roasted rice bran is the 
most common, and it is usually combined with spices and aromat -
ics like garlic, ginger, and chile peppers, as well as dried shiitakes 
or sardines to add umami. Vegetable scraps are also added to 
promote fermentation. After about two weeks, the pickling bed 
is ready.
After all that work, it’s good that you can reuse a bed indefi -
nitely, provided you maintain it—for more on this, check out the 
Rice Bran Pickles on page 96.
8 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLES AND YOUR HEALTH
Pickles have long been revered for their health benefits. They are fat-free and low in 
calories, contain beneficial bacteria that can promote gut health, contain a variety 
of other vitamins, and have health benefits that range from lowering your risk of 
heart disease to improving digestion.
PICKLING AND NUTRIENTS
According to a UC Davis study, both fermented and quick pickles still possess 
many of the vitamins and antioxidants present in raw vegetables. Vinegar used in 
the pickling process can also lower insulin levels and improve digestion. Just pay 
attention to the salt content of pickles (see “But What About Salt and Sugar?” 
on page 9).
PROBIOTICS
Fermented pickles contained probiotics long before they were cool. Essentially, 
probiotics are live bacteria that support the beneficial microorganisms in your gut. 
They help improve your digestive health and support your immune system.
When vegetables are preserved with salt, such as in Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut 
(page 114) and Sichuan Pickles (page 110), they undergo a process called lacto-  
fermentation. During this process, bad bacteria are killed off by the saltiness of the 
brine and the good, lactic-acid-producing bacteria (primarily Lactobacillus  genus) 
thrive. These good bacteria are the probiotics in the final ferment that contribute to 
good health.
Other probiotic-rich foods include kefir, kombucha, and miso.
MORE VEGETABLES ON YOUR PLATE
Pickles are so tasty you’ll want to eat more of them, which means more fruits 
and vegetables in your diet. Pickles are delicious straight from the jar and can 
make healthy staples, like whole grains and produce, more appealing. The zesty 
sweet-sourness and awesome crunch you get from pickling make foods that you 
may not have loved before into lovable favorites, and the flavor and zing make old 
favorites come to life even more. Pickled mustard cabbage on red curry noodles? 
Pickled cucumbers with fried rice? Lime pickle with rice and meat? Yes, yes, 
and yes!9 Getting StartedBUT WHAT ABOUT SALT AND SUGAR?
Salt is essential to food preservation and makes up about 5 to 10 percent of most 
pickling recipes. When fermenting, stick to the amount called for. If you use too 
little, your ferment might come out mushy or moldy. If you’re concerned about 
your salt intake, eat fermented pickles in moderation.
The good news is that in most quick pickle recipes that are eaten immediately 
or items that will eventually be refrigerated, you can alter the amount of salt and 
sugar to taste. Additionally, you can reduce the amount of salt in any recipe that is 
not salt brined or lactofermented, including vinegar-brined pickles that you intend 
to can. Likewise, many of the recipes use sugar as a way to balance flavor. Feel 
free to adjust amounts to your liking. There are exceptions, though, such as Thai 
Sweet Chile Sauce (page 62), where that amount of sugar is needed to thicken and 
preserve it.
In any event, I have tried to include the minimum amounts of salt and sugar 
needed to make the recipes work just right. I also indicate where they can be 
eliminated or reduced according to your personal taste.
USING THE RIGHT INGREDIENTS
Using the right ingredients when pickling can make the difference between a 
crisp, tasty pickle and a soft, bland one. To ensure a successful pickle, choose your 
ingredients very carefully, from using the right type of salt (essential!) to buying 
the freshest produce you can get your hands on.
The water you use can also make a difference. The minerals and chlorine in hard 
water can interfere with pickling, so soft water is ideal. Whether you have hard or 
soft water depends on where you live. Higher mineral content, mainly calcium and 
magnesium, makes water hard. Soft water tends to have higher concentrations 
of sodium. You can make water softer by installing a water-softening system that 
reduces the water’s mineral concentration. Some die-hard picklers use distilled 
water, but if you’re comfortable drinking the water, it’s probably fine to use 
for pickling.10 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALT
As I mentioned, salt is critical for fermenting and for flavor. The balance of salt 
to vegetable during fermentation is very important. Too little salt, and the good 
bacteria won’t develop. Too much salt, and the food may ferment too quickly, 
creating a mushy ferment and/ or allowing mold to grow. 
Basic guidelines (by weight) are 2 to 5 percent salt to vegetables/fruits. The 
lower end (2 percent) is suited to softer produce like leafy greens, and the higher 
end (5 percent) to harder produce like cucumbers. 
The following are the best salts to use for pickling.
Sea Salt
I usually buy natural sea salt from Asian markets, where it is sometimes labeled 
kimchi salt. Look for crystals similar in size to kosher salt. This is the salt I use for 
all of the recipes in this book.
Canning and Pickling Salt
Canning or pickling salt is pure granulated salt. Unlike table salt, it doesn’t contain 
iodine and anti-caking agents, which can create off flavors and cause the pickling 
liquid to turn cloudy. Canning salt is finer than coarse sea salt or kosher salt and 
dissolves much faster. That’s why it is often the salt of choice (though not compul -
sory) for canning enthusiasts.
Kosher Salt
Kosher salt has large crystals, which do not dissolve as quickly as pickling 
salt. The top two brands, Morton and Diamond Crystal, have different crystal 
sizes. Diamond Crystal’s grains are coarser and result in more space between 
the salt crystals, so it is less salty per tablespoon than Morton’s finer crystals. 
Diamond Crystal kosher salt is a good substitute for sea salt in the recipes in 
this cookbook.
VINEGAR
Vinegar is an essential ingredient for quick pickling, because the acetic acid it 
contains preserves the pickles. If you’re canning your pickles, it is essential to use a 
vinegar that has at least 5 percent acidity.  This ensures that low-acid vegetables like 
cucumbers are properly acidified and are safe for canning; check the label to be 
sure. For quick pickles, the basic brine is equal parts vinegar and water. You can 
adjust the ratio to use more vinegar (i.e., ²/3 vinegar: ¹/3 water) but not less. Add 
sugar if the flavor is too harsh.11 Getting StartedRice Vinegar
Rice vinegar is made from fermented rice. It has a mild, slightly sweet flavor 
and is a staple ingredient in Asian cooking. This is my vinegar of choice, and my 
favorite brand is Marukan. Rice vinegar is diluted to an acidity of between 4 and 
4.3 percent, meaning it is not suitable for canning. Substitute apple cider vinegar 
or white wine vinegar if you plan on canning your pickles.
Distilled White Vinegar
While close in color to rice vinegar, white vinegar is sharp and harsh in comparison. 
I think it’s the most aggressive of the vinegars, but it’s inexpensive for pickling in 
bulk. Use more sugar to counter the sharper flavor.
Apple Cider Vinegar
Apple cider vinegar has a mild flavor that I think is the best substitute for rice 
vinegar. Keep in mind, however, that it causes produce to darken.
PRODUCE
When making pickles, it’s important to use the best produce you can find. Buy 
vegetables in season and locally where possible because they’re fresher and 
less costly. This means that farmers’ markets are an ideal place to buy produce 
for pickling.
In this book, I try to use produce that’s easy to find, but there are a few items 
that are most likely available only at Asian markets. If you’re shopping for more 
unusual vegetables, it’s best to go to an Asian market where there’s a higher 
turnover. Of course, this isn’t possible for everyone, so just buy the best you can 
find, avoiding anything with bruises or mold.
Chiles
I use fresh long red chiles in my recipe for Thai Sweet Chile Sauce (page 62); 
I also use small bird or Thai chiles. You can use Korean chiles, Anaheim chiles, or 
Fresnos (red jalapeños). For green chiles, use chiles labeled Korean green chiles at 
the Asian market or jalapeños and serranos.
Citrus
Feel free to use supermarket lemons and limes for the recipes in this book. You 
may also choose Key limes, which are similar to the small limes in Asia.
Cucumbers
My choice are Persian cucumbers. Short and narrow, they are dense and thin skinned 
with almost no watery seeds. Short and squat kirby cucumbers are another pickling 
favorite. English cucumbers don't hold up as well but work for quick pickles. 12 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEEggplant
Long, slender Japanese and Chinese varieties of eggplant are ideal for the recipes 
in this book. If you can find them, use golf-ball-size green and white Thai baby 
eggplants for Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant (page 36), or fairy tale or 
baby Italian eggplants.
Mangos
Indian pickles use green mangos bred specially for pickling, but unripe Kent or 
Tommy Atkins mangos that are very firm and uniformly green skinned will work. 
Papaya
Green, unripe papayas are used for making Shredded Vegetable Pickles (page 50). 
They are usually available at Asian markets and specifically labeled as green 
papaya. Substitute the firmest papayas you can find, green apples, or kohlrabi.
SPICES
Most of the spices I use in this book are available at your local supermarket or at 
least at a specialty market like Whole Foods. Here are a few of the less common 
ones, which you might need to seek out at an Asian market.
Gochujaru
Gochujaru is made of ground Korean chile peppers, and it gives kimchi its heat 
and color while keeping it from souring too quickly. It has a heat level between 
cayenne and paprika, with the smokiness of chipotle. It’s available at Asian markets 
finely and coarsely ground. Finely ground is best for making Korean Red Pepper 
Paste (page 80), and coarsely ground is used for making kimchi.
Curry Leaves
Curry leaves come from the curry tree and have nothing to do with curry powder. 
They have a unique musky fragrance and are used whole to flavor chutneys and 
sambals. As many as 20 small bright green leaves may be attached to a slender 
stem. Find them at Indian or Asian markets, either fresh or frozen.
Asafoetida
This pungent, resinous gum is commonly sold as a coarsely ground powder. It is 
used mainly in Indian cooking, in chutney and pickle recipes.
Fenugreek Seeds
Fenugreek leaves and seeds are popular in Indian cooking. You’ll use these 
seeds, which offer a nutty, maple syrup taste, in the pickle and chutney recipes in 
chapter 3.13 Getting StartedOTHER SPECIALIZED INGREDIENTS
Several recipes in this book use specialized ingredients like fish sauce and miso. 
These ingredients add umami, which is often called the sixth taste. If you can’t find 
them, don’t worry—your pickle will still be tasty.
Fish Sauce
Fish sauce is made by salting and fermenting fish (often anchovies) and then 
pressing them to release an amber liquid. It lends a salty, umami-rich flavor to 
recipes like Roasted Chile Jam (page 56) and Lemongrass Chile Sauce (page 78). 
I use Red Boat brand, but Three Crabs and Squid brands are also reliable.
Miso
Miso is a fermented condiment typically made from soybeans, rice, and barley. 
The most common varieties are white, yellow, and red, and they vary according to 
the ratio of ingredients, how long they’re fermented, and the salt and koji (a type of 
beneficial mold) content. (For more on koji, see Salted Rice Koji Pickles, page 104.) 
In general, though, white miso is the mildest and red is the strongest. What you 
pick depends on your preference. I use a mild white miso in most of my recipes 
because it’s the most versatile.
Kombu
This seaweed is sold in dried sheets and is often labeled dried kelp or dashi kombu. 
It smells and tastes of the sea and is a main ingredient in dashi, the Japanese 
fish and seaweed stock that is used in everything from miso soup to braises like 
sukiyaki. Emerald Cove is a commonly available brand sold at supermarkets.
Soy Sauce
For pickling purposes, I use Japanese shoyu, which is thicker and sweeter 
than Chinese soy sauce. I like San-J or Kikkoman brands. Use tamari for a 
gluten-free option.
Rice Flour
Many kimchi recipes use a paste made from rice flour and water. The rice paste 
adds body and encourages the growth of the right bacteria. I generally use sweet 
rice flour in my recipes, but you can use any type of rice flour.14 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEOUTFIT YOUR KITCHEN
You don’t need fancy equipment to start pickling and fermenting. In fact, you 
probably already have most of the essential tools.
KITCHEN SCALE
Correct proportions are very important for a safe fermentation process, so please 
use a kitchen scale to accurately weigh ingredients when called for. This is espe -
cially important when the amount of salt in a brine is a percentage of the weight of 
vegetables you’re pickling (such as in Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, page 114).
NONREACTIVE POTS, PANS, AND UTENSILS
Use stainless steel or enameled pans and avoid cast iron. These metals will not 
react with acid or salt and will not affect the quality and safety of your pickles.
WEIGHTS
Weights keeps fermenting foods submerged in brine. You can buy special ferment -
ing weights, but small glass jars and glass or porcelain dinner/pie plates work just 
as well. Another option is to fill a food-grade plastic bag with brine (to prevent 
dilution just in case the bag breaks—use 1 tablespoon salt per cup of water). 
Vegetable scraps, especially the root bottoms of cabbages, work great, too.
JARS AND CROCKS
No matter what type of pickles you make, select food-safe containers, preferably 
glass or ceramic. Do not use plastic, which might leach chemicals or stain. Gener -
ally, you will need a 1-gallon container for every 5 pounds of fresh vegetables.
LIDS
Lids should fit your jars and not be rusty or bent. If you’re canning, do not reuse 
lids. It is okay to reuse rings.
LARGE BOWLS
Select glass or ceramic bowls for salting and mixing kimchi. Don’t use plastic, 
because it might stain.15 Getting StartedWATER-BATH CANNING EQUIPMENT
This is only necessary if you’re planning on canning your pickles. See page 16 for a 
full rundown.
SPICE GRINDER OR MORTAR AND PESTLE
Spices add wonderful flavor to pickles. It’s useful to have a spice grinder or mortar 
and pestle at home. You can buy ground spices, but I prefer to buy whole spices 
and toast them just before grinding them down to a powder myself. Whole spices 
retain their fragrance and flavor longer.
CANNING ASIAN PICKLES
Canning stops fermentation and the growth of bacteria that cause spoilage. While 
canning is not a traditional practice in Asian food culture, there are several recipes 
in this cookbook that can be canned. High-acid, nonfermented foods like pickles 
soaked in vinegar, chutneys, and sauces are suitable for water-bath canning and 
should be canned as soon as they’re ready. Unfortunately, the high heat required 
in canning destroys the probiotics and other good bacteria developed during 
fermentation, so don’t can your ferments. Throughout this book, I have indicated 
many of the recipes that can be canned with “Yes you can!” tips. Here is a full list of 
recipes that are able to be canned:
• Pickled Daikon and Carrots, page 26
• Mum’s Mixed Pickle, page 37
• Thai Sweet Chile Sauce, page 62
• Mango Chutney, page 63
• Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), page 73
• Banana Ketchup, page 74• Asian Pear and Fennel Pickles, 
page 124
• Pickled Sunchokes, page 138
• Chinese Five-Spice Pickled 
Grapes, page 144
HOW TO CAN
If it’s your first time canning, don’t be nervous! Here’s a step-by-step guide. Before 
you start, it’s important to check the altitude charts in the appendix (page 149), 
because you might have to adjust the canning time if you live at high elevation.16 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMERead Your Recipe
Before you begin, make sure you have all the correct ingredients weighed out to 
ensure the right proportions. If any of your ratios are off, your produce won’t be 
properly pickled. Additionally, lay out all the tools you might need. Here’s a list:
• Glass mason jars (the easiest to find are Ball or Kerr)
• Oven mitts
• Jar lifter with rubber grips
• Jar lids (sealing metal discs) and bands (the threaded metal rings that hold 
down the lids)
• Common kitchen items like a wooden spoon, spatula, ladle, and kitchen towel
• Large, deep stock pot with a tight-fitting lid (when all the jars are inside, you 
must have room for 1 inch of boiling water over the lids)
• Canning rack (or any rack that will fit in your canner/pot)
Make the Food
While there’s room for experimentation (especially with flavorings), it’s best to 
follow the recipe exactly until you get the hang of it. Don’t boil pickles with vinegar 
for too long, as that might let too much of the vinegar boil off and throw off the pH 
balance of the pickles.
Prep the Jars and Lids
If you're processing food for less than 10 minutes, you'll need to sterilize your jars. 
Otherwise, your jars should just be clean. The easiest way to sterilize your jars and 
lids is by using the sterilizing cycle in your dishwasher. This will also keep them 
warm and prevent breakage due to an abrupt change in temperature when you 
place the jars in your canning pot. If you don't have a dishwasher, boil water-filled 
jars on a rack in a large stockpot for 10 minutes. Boil the lids separately.
Fill Your Jars
Fill your jars so they have the right headspace (1/2 inch for most items), then 
remove bubbles by sliding a rubber spatula between the jar and the food to release 
trapped air. Clean the rims and jars of residue. Adjust the lid on each jar, apply the 
band, and twist just until you encounter resistance; don’t overtighten the jars.
Place the filled jar in the canner. Repeat until all jars are used or the canner 
is full. Make sure the water covers the jars by at least 1 inch. Place the lid on the 
canner and bring the water to a full rolling boil.17 Getting StartedProcess the Jars
When the water boils, set a timer for the recommended time. Adjust the heat until 
the water maintains a rolling boil for the entire processing time. When the time is 
up, remove the lid and allow to cool for 5 minutes before removing the jars from 
the canner. Set the jars on a rack or towel for 12 to 24 hours.
Check the Seal
Press each lid in the center. They should not flex up and down. Remove the bands 
and try to lift the lids off. If the lids can’t come off, they have a good seal.
FERMENTING ASIAN PICKLES
Fermentation or lactofermentation occurs when naturally occurring good bacteria 
called probiotics transform sugars in fruits and vegetables into lactic acid to create 
delicious, tangy ferments. 
Initially, salt inhibits the growth of bad bacteria and prevents spoilage. Within 
a few days, the probiotics take over to keep the ferment safe from toxins and food 
spoilers. The probiotics also break down larger compounds into smaller molecules, 
amplifying existing flavors, adding depth of flavor, and creating new flavors.
In general, three methods are used: dry-salted (sauerkraut method), brined, and 
kimchi-style (which incorporates both). In Asian cultures, brined and kimchi-style 
are the most common. 
This book has an entire chapter on fermented pickles, but you will also find 
them in other chapters, including chapters 3 and 5. 
HOW TO FERMENT
Fermenting isn’t hard, plus you don’t need any fancy equipment. All that’s required 
are a fermenting vessel, fresh produce, and salt. You must follow certain steps to 
do it correctly, though. But don’t worry, it will all be worth it in the end. You will be 
rewarded with a tasty and healthy product you can be proud of! 
Clean Your Crock or Jar
Simply wash your vessel with soap and hot water. Sterilizing is unnecessary, 
because bad bacteria can’t survive in the acidic and anaerobic environment created 
during fermentation.18 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPrepare the Recipe
Follow a tested recipe and prepare all the required ingredients and equipment 
before starting. 
Cut your ingredients into even sizes so that they ferment at an equal rate. The 
smaller the pieces, the more exposed surface area and the faster the ferment. Grat -
ing works well for hard or crunchy vegetables like carrots. Firm vegetables such as 
daikon radish can be sliced very thinly, while softer vegetables such as eggplant or 
greens should be cut into larger pieces to preserve their shape during fermentation.
Always use the right amount of salt called for, paying attention to whether finer 
pickling or coarser kosher salt is used. The balance of salt to vegetables during 
fermenting is very important. Too little salt and the good bacteria won’t develop. 
Too much salt and the food may ferment too quickly, creating a mushy ferment 
and/ or allowing mold to grow. 
Weight the Ferment
The key to a successful ferment is to maintain an oxygen-free environment. It is 
very important to weigh down your ferment to keep it submerged beneath the 
brine. Sealing your vessel is also key. If the ferment is exposed to air, it will allow 
mold to grow. I’ve discussed the different types of weights you can use on page 14.
Wait for It …
A ferment can take anywhere from 1 day to 6 weeks to be ready. It all depends on 
the ambient temperature (65°F to 75°F is ideal) and the time of year. The cooler it 
is, the longer it will take to ferment. If the ambient temperature is higher than 75°F, 
it will ferment too quickly and may lack flavor and/ or turn moldy. 
Burping/Releasing Gas
For the first few days, the bad bacteria from your ferment will produce a lot of 
carbon dioxide. Loosen or open the lid of your vessel at least once a day to release 
the built-up pressure. This is called “burping.” If you can, store your ferment in a 
dark, undisturbed place such as a kitchen cabinet or pantry.
Decant Your Ferment
Once the vegetable is fermented to your liking, move it to cold storage. You can 
divide it up into smaller containers if you’d like. Always use a clean utensil to scoop 
out your ferment to avoid introducing new bacteria. In general, a ferment will keep 
in the refrigerator for a few months, but it will continue to ferment and get sour. 
After 2 or 3 months, it may be too sour to eat straight out of the jar. 19 Getting StartedTHE SECRET INGREDIENT: TIME
Curing or fermenting takes time because time is crucial for allowing flavors to 
develop and probiotics to proliferate. Quick pickles can be eaten immediately, 
while other vinegar pickles may take a couple of hours to a day or two to be tasty. 
Fermented foods can take anywhere from 2 weeks (Fiery Lime Pickle, page 70) to 
2 months (Korean Red Pepper Paste, page 80) to be ready.
Most pickles should be cured or fermented at room temperature before being 
refrigerated, but this timing is arbitrary. The only way to really know when a 
ferment is ready is to taste it. When it tastes pleasant to the person who will be 
eating it, it’s time to make the move to cold storage.
What’s t hat smell?
Fermenting inevitably releases strong odors, especially when you’re 
working with pungent flavors.
Other than experience, there’s no foolproof way to tell whether 
something is good-smelly or . . . well, bad-smelly. The best way to tell 
whether a fermented food has gone bad is to look for visual clues and 
to taste it. If you see colored mold (see page 20) or the food tastes off 
to you, then you should throw it out. You can rest assured that inten -
tionally fermented foods, though smelly, are not actually spoiled. They 
are salted to prevent them from spoiling, flavored to make them tasty, 
and kept in an anaerobic environment (no oxygen means no rotting).
To mitigate the smell, store fermenting foods in the garage, the 
basement, or the back of an empty kitchen cabinet. Asian markets 
have special containers with tight seals for this purpose. You can also 
pull plastic wrap tightly over the mouth of your jar before putting 
the lid on. If all else fails, dig a hole in your backyard and bury your 
ferment underground like they do in Korea!20 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
HOW TO KNOW IF  
SOMETHING IS WRONG
Pickling and fermenting can be a tricky process. The following chart highlights 
typical problems, causes, and solutions to help you solve any issues that arise.
PROBLEM CAUSE  CAN I STILL EAT  
THE PICKLE?WHAT TO DO
White film 
develops Harmless kahm yeast Yes Lift the film off and discard. 
When ready to refrigerate, 
transfer the ferment to a new 
jar with as little headspace as 
possible.
Mold 
appears on 
vegetables 
or brine 
surfaceThe ferment isn’t  
fully submerged and  
is exposed to oxygen.
The wrong salt ratio 
was used.
The vegetables and/or 
tools weren’t clean. In general, toss However, if only a few spots of 
white mold appear, it’s okay to 
simply lift off the mold and eat 
the food.
If more than a few spots, toss.
Any other color mold besides 
white, toss.
Minimize mold by using a weight 
and a fermentation seal.
Sauce or 
brine gets 
fizzy Carbon dioxide gas is 
a natural byproduct 
of fermentation.Yes Burp your jar regularly.
Use a jar with self-burping 
fermentation seals or a water 
lock.
Black stuff 
in the 
middle of 
ferment Air pockets of oxygen/  
not an airtight sealToss Pack your food more tightly next 
time.
Make sure your jar or crock is 
sealed properly.
Ferment is 
soft and 
mushy There is not enough 
salt in the brine. Salt 
rids vegetables of 
moisture and keeps 
things crispy.Yes, but it might 
not taste good.Make sure you have the 
appropriate amount of salt in 
your brine.
Kimchi is 
slimyToo much sugar or 
rice paste was used.Yes, but it might 
not taste good.Make sure you maintain the 
right balance of salt to sugar. 
Either use less or skip altogether. 
(Rice paste is not always 
necessary for kimchi making.)PICKLED DAIKON AND CARROTS / DO CHUA, PAGE 2623
CHAPTER 2
Fast and Fresh Pickles
Pickled Daikon and Carrots | Do Chua 26
Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles 27
Sweet Cucumber Pickles | Hua Gua 28
Miso-Cured Daikon | Misozuke 29
Sweet-and-Sour Chinese Mustard Cabbage Pickle 30
Pineapple and Cucumber Relish | Acar Nenas Dan Timun 31
Indonesian Fruit Salad | Asinan Buah 32
Soy-Pickled Mushrooms 33
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles | Acar Kuning 34
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant 36
Mum’s Mixed Pickle | Acar Campur 37
Spicy Smacked Cucumbers | Suan La Pai Huang Gua 38
Sliced Papaya Pickles 40
Sesame Zucchini Threads | Hobak Namul 41
Pickled Ginger | Gari 42
Pickled Bean Sprouts | Du’a Giá 44
Sesame Pickled Cabbage 45
Pickled Green Chiles 46
Spicy Pickled Lotus Root 47
Salt-Pickled Vegetables | Shiozuke 48
Shredded Vegetable Pickles | Achara 5024 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
PICKLE PASSPORT: SOUTHEAST ASIA
Must-try pickles: Pickled Daikon and Carrots (page 26),  
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles (page 34), Shredded Vegetable Pickles (page 50), 
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant (page 36)
As in many parts of the world, pickling in Southeast Asia 
( including Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Myanmar,  Vietnam, 
 Singapore, and Thailand) started as a way to prevent foods from 
spoiling quickly, especially in the intense heat and humidity of the 
tropics. People added spices like chiles and turmeric because they 
are abundant and they inhibit bacteria growth, which explains why 
Southeast Asian pickles are so flavorful. Today, the seasonings for 
local pickles run the gamut from garlic, ginger, and red chiles to 
lemongrass and lime leaves (makrut in Thai).
When it comes to the question of what gets pickled in 
 Southeast Asia, the answer is everything. From vegetables and 
fruit to fish and meat, anything edible is pickled. Common vegeta -
bles like cucumbers, carrots, and daikon radishes are popular for 
pickling, as are tropical fruits like papayas, pineapple, and mangos.
In Southeast Asia, vinegar-brined pickles are universally 
popular. Vinegar-to-water-to-sugar and salt ratios vary from 
culture to culture, region to region. Migrants from India and China 25 Fast and Fresh Pickles
also brought with them pickles that have been adapted to local 
ingredients and palates over the centuries. Acar or achar—popular 
in Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore—is a localized version of 
Indian achaar (try Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, the Indonesian version, 
on page 34 and Fiery Lime Pickle, the Indian version, on page 70). 
This pickle is made with a basic Indian-influenced spice paste and 
gussied up with indigenous ingredients like candlenuts, galangal, 
and/ or palm sugar. Originally from China, Sweet-and-Sour 
Chinese Mustard Cabbage Pickle (page 30) shows up in Thai and 
 Singaporean cuisine, both as a condiment and cooked into dishes. 
Other fermented foods include tape (pronounced “ta-pay”), 
fermented cassava that’s eaten as a sweet snack in Indonesia, and 
fermented eggplant in Vietnam.
Pickles are eaten as a refreshing snack on a hot, sunny day. 
Additionally, they add texture and flavor to many Southeast Asian 
grilled meat and fish dishes, satays in particular. Pickles also 
accompany rice and noodle dishes to add heat and crunch.
26 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED D AIKON AND C ARROTS | Do Chua
VIETNAM
Makes:  2 pints | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes, plus 30 minutes salting time  | Curing time:  1 hour
1 pound daikon radish, peeled 
and cut into matchsticks 
(1 large daikon)
1 pound carrots, peeled 
and cut into matchsticks 
(5 medium carrots)
2 teaspoons fine sea salt
1 cup water
1 cup rice vinegar
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
2 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol (optional)Traditionally stuffed into banh mi sandwiches or tossed 
over vermicelli noodle bowls, this pickled duo of daikon and 
carrot is very popular in Vietnamese cuisine. This recipe 
makes a sweeter pickle, but you can use less sugar if you 
like. Start with 1/4 cup sugar and add more to taste, and feel 
free to adjust the ratio of daikon to carrot, too.
1. In a large bowl, toss the daikon and carrot with the 
fine sea salt and set aside until the vegetables are soft 
and pliable, about 30 minutes. This process draws out 
moisture and allows the pickling brine to penetrate the 
vegetables for better texture and flavor.
2. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan over medium-high 
heat, combine the water, vinegar, sugar, and coarse 
sea salt. Bring to a boil, stirring until the sugar and salt 
dissolve completely. Set aside to cool.
3. Rinse the vegetables and drain. Pack them into 
2 pint-size jars and add one dried chile per jar, if using. 
Divide the brine between the jars. Seal and refrigerate. 
Steep for at least 1 hour before eating. The pickles will 
keep in the refrigerator for 4 weeks.
YES You CaN! While it’s not traditional, this pickle can be 
canned so it keeps for up to a year on the shelf. Double the 
quantity of vegetables and salt, and make the brine with 
3 cups water, 3 cups distilled  white vinegar (do not use rice 
vinegar, because its acidity level is not suitable for canning), 
and 11/2 cups sugar. Following the canning instructions 
on page 15, place the salted vegetables in 6 pint-size jars 
that have been washed with hot, soapy water. Fill the jars 
with hot brine, leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove any 
air bubbles, wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in a 
water-bath canner for 10 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before 
removing the jars, and check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.27 Fast and Fresh PicklesQUICK CUCUMBER AND CARROT PICKLES
CHINA
Makes:  1 pint | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus salting time  | Curing time:  15 minutes to 1 hour
2 large seedless cucumbers 
(8 to 9 inches long)
1 medium carrot, peeled and 
cut into thin rounds
11/4 teaspoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt, divided
1/2 cup rice vinegar
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons maple syrup
2 (1/8-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger
1 garlic clove, smashed
Pinch dried chili flakesMy friend’s mother taught me how to make this simple 
pickle. After moving to the United States, she started 
 replacing ginger syrup with maple syrup and some fresh 
 ginger slices. I like cutting the cucumbers into long flat 
ribbons. With such a large exposed surface area, the 
cucumber absorbs the brine readily and quickly—and it 
looks pretty. 
1. Trim and halve each cucumber lengthwise. Place one 
half flat-side down on your cutting board and, using a 
vegetable peeler (a “Y”-peeler works great), slice the 
cucumber lengthwise into paper-thin strips. Repeat 
with the remaining cucumber.
2. Put the cucumber slices and carrots in a colander and 
toss with 1 teaspoon of salt. Let them sit in the sink 
while you prepare the brine.
3. In a small bowl, mix together the vinegar, water, 
sugar, maple syrup, ginger, garlic, chili flakes, 
and remaining 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Microwave on 
medium-high for 30 seconds, until the mixture is 
warm. Stir until the sugar dissolves completely. Taste 
and adjust the seasonings if desired. Let the brine cool.
4. Rinse the vegetables and shake dry. In a large 
bowl, toss the vegetables and brine together. Let 
stand for at least 15 minutes in the refrigerator but 
preferably 1 hour.
TRY IT WIT h: This cool, crisp, and mildly sweet pickle 
perks up fried rice or noodles.28 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESWEET CUCUMBER PICKLES | HUA GUA
TAIWAN
Makes:  1 pint | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 1 hour salting time  | Curing time:  24 hours
1 pound small seedless 
cucumbers, like Persian (6 to 
8 cucumbers)
1 tablespoon sugar,  
plus 2 teaspoons
11/2 teaspoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt, divided
1 tablespoon Chinese 
black vinegar
1 tablespoon regular soy sauce
2 teaspoons dark soy sauce
3 garlic cloves, smashed 
and peeled
1 star anise podSoy-pickled cucumbers are very common across the Far 
East. This Taiwanese version uses Chinese black vinegar 
(see the ingredient tip that follows), regular (also called light) 
soy sauce, and dark soy sauce, which give this pickle its 
dark appearance and particular sweet-tart flavor. Dark soy 
sauce is less salty than regular soy sauce and has a touch 
of sweetness. If you can’t find it, substitute 11/2 teaspoons 
regular soy sauce plus 1/2 teaspoon molasses.
1. Halve each cucumber crosswise and then cut into 
4 equal sections. In a medium bowl, toss the slices 
with 2 teaspoons of sugar and 1 teaspoon of salt. 
Refrigerate for 1 hour.
2. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, make the sauce by 
combining the remaining 1 tablespoon of sugar, the 
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and the black vinegar, 
regular soy sauce, dark soy sauce, garlic, and star 
anise. Stir until the sugar and salt dissolve completely. 
Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired.
3. After 1 hour in the refrigerator, the cucumbers 
should have released at least 1/4 cup of liquid. Drain 
and discard the liquid and add the prepared sauce. 
Toss to mix. Cover and marinate in the refrigerator 
for 24 hours. These pickles will keep for 1 week in 
the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chinese black vinegar is a specialty 
vinegar made from glutinous rice and malt and is widely 
used in Chinese cuisine. It is also called Chinkiang vinegar, 
after the city that is famous for its production. Chinese 
black vinegar is somewhat mild with a hint of sweetness 
and has a complexity similar to balsamic vinegar. Use it in 
stir-fries and dipping sauces. You can substitute balsamic 
vinegar or white rice vinegar if you can’t find it in your 
local markets.29 Fast and Fresh PicklesMISO-CURED DAIKON | MISoZUKE
JAPAN
Makes:  1 pint | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 1 hour salting time  | Curing time:  2 to 3 hours
1 pound daikon radish, 
peeled and cut into 
1-by-2-inch pieces
2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons salt
1/4 cup white or red miso
2 teaspoons mirinJust about any food can be cured with miso, from vegetables 
to fish. This curing method makes an umami-rich, mildly 
salty pickle that tastes great with rice and fish or on its 
own. Miso-cured daikon is very common, but you can 
try this curing method with other vegetables, like carrots, 
cucumbers, and eggplant. Remember that thin, soft vege -
tables (like eggplant and cucumber) cure faster than thick, 
tough vegetables (like radish and carrot). Thinner, smaller 
pieces pickle faster, too. Also keep in mind that red miso is 
saltier than white and requires a shorter curing time. Adjust 
according to which miso you prefer.
1. In a zip-top bag, toss the daikon with the sugar 
and salt. Remove as much air as possible and seal. 
Refrigerate for 1 hour, weighing the daikon down with 
something heavy like a glass container or milk jug. 
This keeps the daikon immersed in the dry brine and 
facilitates the release of moisture.
2. Drain the daikon and rinse. Drain any liquids from the 
bag. Add the miso and mirin to the bag and massage 
into the daikon. Refrigerate for 2 to 3 hours. Taste 
to see whether the pickle is pleasant to your taste. 
It should taste a little salty, sweet, and sour. Cure for 
longer if desired.
3. Rub off the miso paste from the daikon before serving. 
These pickles will keep for 1 week in the refrigerator.
TRY IT WIT h: You can reuse the miso marinade several 
times (it will remain flavorful for up to 1 month). Once it 
loses most of its flavor, you can still cook with it. Try it in a 
stir-fry or a soup.30 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESWEET-AND-SOUR CHINESE MUSTARD CABBAGE PICKLE
CHINA
Makes:  2 pints | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes, plus sitting time  | Curing time:  2 to 5 days
2 pounds Chinese mustard 
cabbage, cut into bite-size 
pieces (2 medium cabbages)
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup distilled white vinegar
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 (1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and cut into 4 slicesThis pickle is a variation on the fermented salted cabbage 
that is popular in many Asian cuisines. Steeped in a 
sweet-and-sour vinegar brine, this mustard cabbage pickle 
is ready to eat in 2 days, rather than the weeks it takes for 
the fermented version.
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil over medium-high 
heat. Add the cabbage, stirring until it darkens, 2 to 
3 minutes. Drain and let cool.
2. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, combine 
the water, vinegar, sugar, and salt. Bring to a boil, 
stirring until the salt and sugar dissolve completely. 
Remove from the heat and let cool.
3. Pack the cabbage into 2 pint-size jars. Add 2 slices of 
ginger to each jar and push the vegetables down as far 
as they will go. Divide the pickling brine between the 
2 jars. Place a weight (see page 14 for options) on top 
of the cabbage to keep it submerged in the brine. Steep 
for at least 2 days, preferably 5. This pickle keeps for 
3 to 4 months in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chinese mustard cabbage (called gai 
choy) is a green leafy vegetable from the brassica family. 
Like all mustards, it’s bitter, but when pickled, it mellows 
in flavor and retains its crunch. Mustard cabbage is readily 
available at Asian markets.31 Fast and Fresh PicklesPINEAPPLE AND CUCUMBER RELISH | ACAR NEN aS DaN TIMUN
MALAYSIA
Makes:  1 quart | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Curing time:  10 minutes to 1 hour
4 cups fresh pineapple, 
cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
(1/2 medium pineapple)
11/2 cups cucumber, 
seeded and chopped 
(1 medium cucumber)
1 teaspoon coarse sea 
salt, divided
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 tablespoon palm sugar or 
light brown sugar
1/4 cup sliced shallots 
(2 small shallots)
1 Thai red chile, choppedPineapple’s tropical flavor shines in this quick and simple 
relish called acar in Malay. The sweet-tart combination 
with the addition of cooling cucumber makes for a wonder -
ful complement to curries and barbecued meats hot off the 
grill. Serve acar cold or at room temperature.
1. Toss the pineapple and cucumber with 1/2 teaspoon of 
salt in a colander. Let it sit in the sink while you make 
the dressing.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the vinegar, lime 
juice, remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and sugar until the 
salt and sugar dissolve completely.
3. Drain the pineapple and cucumber and add them to 
the bowl with the dressing. Add the shallots and chile 
and toss.
4. Let sit at room temperature for 10 minutes, preferably 
1 hour, to allow the flavors to meld. This pickle will keep 
in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Palm sugar is sold in discs at Asian 
markets. To use it in recipes, shave off pieces with a sharp 
knife. Granulated coconut palm sugar, which is very similar 
and therefore a good substitute, is available at just about 
any grocery store.32 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEINDONESIAN FRUIT SALAD | ASINAN BUA h
INDONESIA
Makes:  5 cups  | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Curing time:  2 hours
11/2 cups underripe mango, 
cut into 1-inch chunks 
(1 medium mango)
11/2 cups pineapple, cut into 
1-inch chunks (9 ounces)
11/2 cups jicama, cut into 
1-inch chunks (6 ounces)
1 tablespoon palm sugar or 
light brown sugar
1 to 2 teaspoons bottled chile 
paste (or more, depending on 
your taste)
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 cup boiling water
2 tablespoons distilled 
white vinegarI’ve always enjoyed asinan buah as a refreshing snack 
on a hot, sunny day. My mom used to toss in all manner 
of tropical fruit and vegetables: pineapple, jicama, green 
mango, star fruit, rose apple, and more. It’s also tasty served 
alongside grilled meats.
1. Drain the mango, pineapple, and jicama in a colander 
in the sink while you prepare the dressing.
2. In a large heatproof bowl, combine the sugar, chile 
paste, and salt. Pour in the boiling water and vinegar 
and stir until the sugar and salt dissolve completely. 
Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired. Let the 
dressing cool.
3. Add the fruit to the bowl and toss with the dressing. 
Refrigerate for at least 2 hours to allow the flavors to 
meld. Serve chilled or at room temperature. This will 
keep in the refrigerator for 2 days.
SWITCh ThINGS u P: The sweet-sour-spicy dressing is a 
great way to elevate bland or sour-tasting fruit. When in 
season, I have used underripe stone fruit like peaches or 
apricots. But any firm fruit with a tart edge to it or that isn’t 
super sweet would taste great, too.33 Fast and Fresh PicklesSOY-PICKLED MUSHROOMS
JAPAN
Makes:  2 cups | Prep and Cook time:  5 minutes  | Curing time:  1 hour
1/3 cup soy sauce
1/3 cup rice vinegar
2/3 cup water
1/4 cup granulated sugar
8 ounces shiitake mushrooms, 
stemmed and slicedPickling in soy sauce is one of the most basic Japanese 
pickling techniques. Soy sauce, rice vinegar, and sugar are 
mixed together to form the brine. Add-ins like mirin, garlic, 
or chiles are optional. I like to make this tasty side dish with 
Japanese mini mushrooms like enoki or shimeji (beech 
mushrooms), but for this recipe, I’ve used the easier-to-find 
shiitake. Feel free to use any type of mushroom you can get 
your hands on, from button to chanterelles.
1. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, combine 
the soy sauce, vinegar, water, and sugar and bring 
to a simmer. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the sugar dissolves completely, 3 to 
5 minutes.
2. Transfer the mushrooms to a medium bowl with a 
slotted spoon. Let the brine cool, then pour over the 
mushrooms. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. 
These will keep for up to 2 weeks in the refrigerator.
TRY IT WIT h: These mushrooms are a delicious and 
nutritious addition to noodle or rice bowls or tossed into 
a salad.34 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMETURMERIC-SPICED PICKLES | ACAR KUNING
INDONESIA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  25 minutes  | Cook time:  5 minutes  | Curing time:  12 hours
FoR ThE VEGET aBLES
1/2 pound seedless cucumbers, 
like Kirby or Persian, 
cut into matchsticks 
(4 small cucumbers)
1/2 pound carrots, peeled 
and cut into matchsticks 
(2 medium carrots)
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup cauliflower florets
1/4 cup chopped green 
bell pepper
1/4 cup chopped red 
bell pepper
4 Thai red chiles, chopped
2 salam leaves (optional, see 
the ingredient tip)
2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices fresh 
galangal, bruised (optional, 
see the ingredient tip)
FoR ThE DRESSING
1 cup coarsely chopped shallot 
or red onion
3 candlenuts or macadamia 
nuts, crushed (optional, see 
the ingredient tip)
2 garlic cloves
1 plump stalk lemongrass, 
trimmed and coarsely 
chopped (or 2 tablespoons 
thawed frozen 
ground lemongrass)In Indonesia, acar (pronounced ah-char) is the generic term 
for pickle and is probably a localized version of Indian achaar. 
This delicious pickle is literally called “yellow pickle” (after its 
turmeric-tinged golden hue) and is often eaten with rice and 
used as a topping for fried fish in the dish ikan acar kuning. 
For more information on lemongrass, check out the tip in the 
Lemongrass Chile Sauce recipe (page 78).
1. PREP ThE VEGET aBLES: Toss the cucumbers and 
carrots with the salt in a colander. Let them sit to drain 
in the sink while you make the dressing.
2. MaKE ThE DRESSING : Combine the shallots, 
candlenuts (if using), garlic, and lemongrass in a 
food processor and whirl until finely chopped to 
confetti-size bits.
3. Preheat a medium skillet over medium heat. Swirl in 
the oil. Add the shallot mixture and turmeric. Stir and 
cook until the paste turns a few shades darker, 2 to 
3 minutes.
4. Add the water, vinegar, sugar, and salt. Mix well. Taste 
and adjust the seasonings if desired. Remove from 
the heat and let cool for 10 to 15 minutes.
5. PICKLE Th E VEGET aBLES:  When the dressing has 
cooled, rinse the cucumbers and carrots. Drain and 
pat dry with paper towels. Add them to the skillet with 
the dressing, along with the cauliflower, green pepper, 
red pepper, chiles, salam leaves (if using), and galangal 
(if using). Mix well. Add 1/4 to 1/2 cup more water if there 
isn’t enough dressing to lightly coat all the vegetables.35 Fast and Fresh Pickles6. Transfer the pickles to an airtight container. Cover and 
let sit in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours to allow 
the flavors to meld. When ready to serve, remove the 
salam leaves and galangal. Serve at room temperature 
with rice or warm over fried fish. This pickle keeps in 
the refrigerator for 5 days.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Salam leaves, galangal, and candlenuts  
are very typical ingredients used in Indonesian cooking, 
yet they may be hard to find, even at Asian markets. The 
candlenuts act as a thickening agent, so macadamias make 
a decent substitute. If available, salam leaves (also called 
Indian bay leaves) are usually sold dried in clear cellophane 
packages. Galangal is available fresh and dried. Soak dried 
galangal for at least 10 minutes before using in any recipe. 
These two ingredients have no close substitutes, so omit 
them if you can’t find them.1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons distilled 
white vinegar
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon fine sea salt36 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESWEET AND SPICY PICKLED BABY EGGPLANT
VIETNAM
Makes:  1 quart | Prep and Cook time:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour sitting time  | Curing time:  2 days
1 pound baby eggplant (such 
as Thai, Indian, or fairy tale)
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 cup distilled white vinegar
1 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup sliced shallot
4 Thai red chiles, sliced or 
split lengthwise
2 garlic cloves
2 (1/4-inch-thick) fresh 
ginger slices
2 tablespoons fish saucePickled golf-ball-size white eggplants are a Vietnamese 
favorite. You’ll find shelves of them in jars at many Asian 
markets. They retain their crunch while absorbing all of the 
delicious sweet, sour, and spicy flavors of this brine. White 
baby eggplants are not common in the United States, so I’ve 
substituted Thai or Indian eggplants, which are about the 
same size. You can always cut larger eggplants into smaller 
pieces for the same effect.
1. Stem the eggplants and cut into halves or quar -
ters. Toss with the salt in a large bowl and set aside 
for 1 hour.
2. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan over medium-high 
heat, combine the vinegar, water, sugar, shallot, chiles, 
garlic, and ginger and bring to a boil. Stir until the sugar 
completely dissolves. Remove from the heat and stir in 
the fish sauce.
3. Rinse the eggplant under cold running water and  
drain. Pack into a quart-size jar. Pour the brine over  
the eggplant and place a weight on top (see page 14  
for options) to keep the eggplant submerged under 
the brine. Seal and steep for at least 2 days in the 
refrigerator. This pickle keeps for 3 to 4 months in 
the refrigerator.
SWITCh ThINGS u P: This pickle isn’t fermented or canned, 
so you can easily adjust the amounts of sugar and fish 
sauce to your taste.37 Fast and Fresh PicklesMUM’S MIXED PICKLE | ACAR C aMPuR
INDONESIA
Makes:  2 quarts | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes  | Curing time:  1 to 12 hours
2 pounds seedless cucumbers, 
like Kirby or Persian, cut 
into bite-size pieces (12 to 
15 cucumbers)
4 ounces cabbage, cut 
into 1-inch squares 
(1/4 small cabbage)
3/4 cup diced red or yellow bell 
pepper (1 small pepper)
2 cups shredded carrot 
(8 ounces)
1 cup cauliflower florets 
(12 ounces)
1/4 cup sliced shallot 
(11/2 ounces)
11/2 cups distilled white vinegar
3/4 cup water
11/2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher saltWhen my mum makes pickles, she makes them with 
whatever vegetables she has on hand. For some reason, she 
can’t seem to make small amounts and always has more 
than enough to give away to friends and neighbors. (Don’t 
worry, I have scaled down the quantity of vegetables for 
this recipe.) And in true Javanese style, she makes them 
sweet-sweet. You can, of course, reduce the amounts of 
sugar and salt.
1. In a large bowl, toss the cucumbers, cabbage, bell 
pepper, carrots, cauliflower, and shallot together.
2. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the 
vinegar, water, sugar, and salt and bring to a simmer. 
Stir until the sugar and salt dissolve completely. Taste 
and adjust the seasonings if desired. Remove from 
the heat and let cool.
3. Once the brine has cooled down, pour over the 
vegetables and mix well. Cover and refrigerate for at 
least 1 hour, preferably 12 hours. These will keep in the 
refrigerator for 2 to 3 months.
YES You CaN! While it's not traditional, this pickle can be 
canned so it keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. Double the 
quantities and follow the canning instructions on page 15. 
Pack the vegetables into 4 pint-size jars that have been 
washed with hot, soapy water. Fill the jars with hot brine, 
leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove any air bubbles, wipe 
the rims, and seal the jars. Process in a water-bath canner 
for 10 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before removing the jars, 
and check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.38 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESPICY SMACKED CUCUMBERS | SUAN L a PaI HUANG GUA
CHINA
Makes:  2 cups | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 30 minutes salting time
1 pound thin-skinned 
cucumber, like English or 
Persian (1 large or 6 to 
8 small cucumbers)
1 tablespoon granulated sugar, 
plus 1/4 teaspoon
11/4 teaspoons coarse  
sea salt, divided
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
2 teaspoons sesame oil
2 teaspoons chili bean sauce 
or chili oil
2 large garlic cloves, minced
Toasted sesame seeds, 
for garnishSmashed (or smacked) cucumbers are a cool, refreshing 
“cold dish” that is the perfect foil for rich, spicy food. 
Smashing the cucumber releases moisture and creates 
nooks and crannies that allow the cucumber to absorb 
the dressing readily, making this dish ready in no time. 
A Chinese cleaver, with its wide, rectangular blade, is the 
ideal tool for smashing cucumbers, but a large chef’s knife or 
meat pounder will work just as well.
1. Halve each cucumber crosswise, then cut each half 
lengthwise into four batons. If using small cucumbers, 
just cut lengthwise into four pieces. Place a piece of 
cucumber cut-side down on a cutting board. Lay a 
large knife flat on the cucumber and smash down 
lightly with your other hand. The skin will split and 
the seeds will separate from the flesh (discard the 
seeds, if any). Repeat until all the cucumber pieces are 
smashed. Cut into bite-size pieces.
2. In a large bowl, toss the cucumber pieces with 
1/4 teaspoon of sugar and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Place 
a weight on top of the cucumbers (a smaller bowl 
or bag filled with ice would work) and set aside for 
30 minutes at room temperature or up to 4 hours in 
the refrigerator.
3. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, stir together the remaining 
1 tablespoon of sugar, the remaining 1 teaspoon of salt, 
and the vinegar until the salt and sugar dissolve. Stir in 
the sesame oil, chili bean sauce, and garlic.39 Fast and Fresh Pickles4. When ready to serve, drain the cucumbers and 
transfer to a serving bowl. Add the dressing and toss 
until the cucumbers are well coated. Sprinkle with the 
sesame seeds and serve immediately. These will last 
for 2 days in the refrigerator.
SWITCh IT uP:  You can use other cucumber varieties, too. 
Just peel the skin if it’s thicker. The smashing technique 
removes the seeds, so don’t worry about removing them.40 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESLICED PAPAYA PICKLES
VIETNAM
Makes:  1 pint | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes, plus 10 to 15 minutes salting time  |  
Curing time:  12 hours to 2 days
1 pound firm green papaya 
(about 1/2 small papaya)
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
3/4 cup rice vinegar
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
1 Thai red chile, seeded 
and split
2 garlic cloves, smashedPapaya is so ubiquitous in Southeast Asia that it is eaten as 
a fruit when fully ripe and as a vegetable when still green 
and crisp. This pickle uses unripe green papaya, which is 
sold only at Asian markets. Green papaya looks exactly like 
regular papaya but will have a uniformly green peel. You will 
usually find it in the produce section next to the taro and 
sweet potatoes. Don’t know what to do with the second half 
of the papaya? Use it as if it were zucchini.
1. Halve the papaya lengthwise. Remove the seeds with 
a spoon. Reserve one half for another use—stored in a 
plastic bag in the refrigerator, it will keep for 2 weeks. 
Peel the papaya with a peeler and rinse well. Place 
cut-side down on a cutting board. Cut crosswise into 
¹/8-inch-thick slices with a very sharp knife, or use a 
mandoline if you have one. In a medium bowl, toss the 
papaya slices with the salt and set aside until soft and 
pliable, 10 to 15 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, combine the 
rice vinegar, water, and sugar. Bring to a boil over 
medium-high heat, stirring until the sugar dissolves 
completely. Set aside to cool.
3. Rinse and drain the papaya and pack into a pint-size 
jar. Add the red chile and garlic. Pour the brine into the 
jar, making sure to submerge the papaya slices. Seal 
and refrigerate for at least 12 hours or up to 2 days. 
The papaya is ready when it turns translucent. It will 
keep for up to 1 month in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you can’t find green papaya, look for 
a moderately ripe papaya that’s yellowish but still firm. 
Kohlrabi also makes an excellent substitute.41 Fast and Fresh PicklesSESAME ZUCCHINI THREADS | HoBaK NaMUL
KOREA
Makes:  2 cups  | Prep time:  1 hour, plus 15 minutes salting time  | Curing time:  5 minutes
20 ounces zucchini 
(4 medium zucchini)
5 ounces carrot 
(1 medium carrot)
1 Korean green chile or 
jalapeño (optional)
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 tablespoons fresh lemon 
juice (from 1/2 large lemon)
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon grated fresh 
ginger (from a 1-inch piece)
2 teaspoons granulated sugar
Dash ground white pepper
1 teaspoon toasted sesame 
seeds, for garnishThis dish is not a pickle per se but more of a seasoned 
vegetable dish. Colorful and elegant, it has a gentle and 
mild flavor that is especially calming with spicy food. An 
assortment of similar dishes is typically served as banchan, 
or small side dishes, during a traditional Korean meal.
1. Halve the zucchini lengthwise and scrape out the 
seeds with a spoon. Using a very sharp paring knife or 
julienne peeler, cut the zucchini as thinly as possible 
into long threads. Cut the carrot and green chile 
(if using) to the same size as the zucchini.
2. Toss the zucchini and carrot with the salt in a colander 
and let the mixture drain in the sink for 15 minutes. 
Wrap the vegetables in a non-terry-cloth dish towel 
and gently wring out excess moisture. Do this two 
or three times to extract the moisture from the 
vegetables, but don’t completely crush them. They 
should be somewhat dry to the touch.
3. Put the zucchini and carrot in a medium bowl and fluff 
them up. Add the lemon juice, chile (if using), sesame 
oil, ginger, sugar, and pepper. Let sit for 5 minutes to 
allow the flavors to meld. Just before serving, sprinkle 
with the sesame seeds. Toss and serve. This will keep 
for up to 5 days in the refrigerator.
PREP TIP:  This dish can be made a few hours ahead, but 
wait until just before serving to drizzle the sesame oil over 
the top.42 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED GINGER | GaRI
JAPAN
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep and Cook time:  15 minutes, plus 10 minutes soaking time  | Curing time:  12 hours
4 ounces young ginger
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt, divided
1/4 cup rice vinegar
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugarJapanese pickled ginger, or gari, is best known as the palate 
cleanser eaten with sushi or sashimi. With its mild flavor and 
tender texture, young ginger is best for making gari. Young 
ginger also has pink tips, which naturally color the gari. 
Commercially produced pickled ginger is often artificially 
dyed pink. Find young ginger at specialty markets like Whole 
Foods or at a farmers’ market. It’s definitely worth your 
while to make gari at home, as it won’t contain dyes and the 
flavor will be more delicate.
1. Separate the ginger into manageable knobs, 1 to 
2 inches long. Gently scrape the skin from each knob 
with a teaspoon. Cut the ginger into very thin slices 
(about ¹/16-inch thick) along the grain. Soak in a bowl of 
water at room temperature for 10 minutes.
2. Bring a small pot of water to a boil over medium-high 
heat. Add the ginger and bring the water back to a boil. 
Simmer for 1 minute and remove from the heat.
3. Drain the water from the pot and sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon 
of salt over the ginger while still hot.
4. Once the ginger is cool enough to handle, massage for 
1 minute. Squeeze out as much liquid as possible and 
pack into a pint-size jar.
5. In the small pot, combine the vinegar, water, sugar, and 
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt and bring to a boil over 
medium heat. Stir until the sugar dissolves completely. 
Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired. Remove 
from the heat and set aside to cool.43 Fast and Fresh Pickles6. Pour the brine over the ginger. Seal and keep in a cool 
dark place for 12 hours. This pickle will keep in the 
refrigerator for up to 6 months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you can’t find young ginger, look 
for a fresh hand of ginger that is smooth with shiny, taut 
skin. The skin should be thin and not thick and fibrous. 
You will have to boil mature ginger for longer—around 
3 minutes—to remove its spiciness in step 2. I would also 
allow it to pickle for longer.44 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED BEAN SPROUTS | DU‚A GIá
VIETNAM
Makes:  4 cups  | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes  | Curing time:  1 hour
11/2 cups water
1/2 cup distilled white vinegar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
8 ounces mung bean sprouts, 
rinsed under cool water
1 small carrot, shredded
1 small bunch Chinese chives 
or skinny green onions, cut 
into 2-inch pieces
1 red Fresno or serrano chile, 
seeded and slicedThis refreshing pickle has a satisfying crunch and contrasts 
nicely with the rich and robust flavors of Vietnamese dishes 
like caramelized pork belly and eggs or caramelized catfish 
in a clay pot. It would even be just as tasty in a banh mi 
sandwich. The bean sprouts provide the crunch, but the 
distinct aroma comes from the Chinese chives, which have 
flatter leaves and a more pungent taste than the chives at 
the grocery store. Try to find them, but if you can’t, green 
onions will work fine, too.
1. In a small saucepan over medium heat, combine the 
water, vinegar, sugar, and salt and bring to a simmer. 
Stir until the sugar and salt dissolve completely. Add a 
few grinds of black pepper. Set aside to cool.
2. In a large bowl, toss together the bean sprouts, 
carrot, chives, and chile slices. Pour the brine over 
the vegetables. Don’t worry if the vegetables aren’t 
completely submerged. They will shrink in volume, 
allowing the brine to completely cover them. Set 
aside at room temperature for at least 1 hour, 
tossing occasionally.
3. To serve, use tongs or a slotted spoon to scoop up the 
vegetables, leaving the brine behind. Refrigerate any 
leftovers. This pickle is best eaten within 2 to 3 days, or 
the bean sprouts will lose their crunch.
SWITCh IT uP:  If you can’t find mung bean sprouts, try 
pickling soybean sprouts or sunflower sprouts. Just don’t 
use alfalfa sprouts—they are too fragile.45 Fast and Fresh PicklesSESAME PICKLED CABBAGE
JAPAN
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  15 minutes
1 pound green cabbage
11/2 teaspoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 tablespoon toasted sesame 
seeds, for garnishSalting and massaging vegetables is one of the easiest Jap -
anese techniques for pickling. All you have to do is combine 
the vegetables—in this case, cabbage—with salt in a zip-top 
bag and massage the salt into them. Plus, it is ready in no 
time. Adding the sesame oil elevates an otherwise bland 
pickle while adding a distinctive aroma.
1. Core the cabbage and coarsely chop the leaves into 
2-by-2-inch squares.
2. Put the cabbage and salt in a zip-top bag. Seal the bag 
with air inside and shake to distribute the salt evenly. 
Massage the cabbage until it is soft and has released 
its juices, about 5 minutes. Drain the liquid.
3. Add the sesame oil to the bag and massage into the 
cabbage. Transfer the cabbage to a serving plate and 
sprinkle with the sesame seeds. Toss and serve. This 
will keep in the refrigerator for 3 days.
SWITCh IT uP:  This recipe works well with vegetables 
aside from cabbage, including turnips and daikon radish.46 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED GREEN CHILES
SINGAPORE
Makes:  11/2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Curing time:  12 hours
4 ounces mild green chiles, 
like serrano or jalapeño, 
seeded and sliced (4 to 
6 chiles)
1 cup rice vinegar
1 cup hot water
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugarGrowing up in Singapore, I always had a little dish of pickled 
green chiles doused in soy sauce to accompany wonton 
noodles. Even though I’ve always been spice-averse, this 
is one chile pickle that I can tolerate, because the vinegar 
mellows the chiles’ spiciness, leaving my taste buds to enjoy 
the nice crunch and tang.
1. Bring a kettle of water to a boil. Place the chiles in a 
small bowl. Pour boiling water over the chiles and 
blanch for 10 seconds. Drain and discard the water.
2. Pack the chiles into a quart-size jar.
3. In a small heatproof bowl, combine the vinegar, hot 
water, salt, and sugar. Stir until the salt and sugar 
dissolve completely. Set aside to cool.
4. Pour the brine into the jar. Seal and refrigerate for 
12 hours. Pickled green chiles keep in the refrigerator 
for up to 2 months.
TRY IT WIT h: Pickled green chiles can be served with soy 
sauce to accompany any noodle dish. Don’t hesitate to 
try them on pizza and in sandwiches, too.47 Fast and Fresh PicklesSPICY PICKLED LOTUS ROOT
JAPAN
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes  | Curing time:  12 hours
6 to 8 ounces lotus root, 
peeled and cut into thin 
rounds (1 small lotus root)
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1/4 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon chili oil
1 small dried red chile, like 
chile de arbol, crushedLotus root has long been prized in Asian cultures for 
its health benefits. It is low in calories, is high in dietary 
fiber, and contains many vitamins and minerals, including 
vitamin B, vitamin C, iron, potassium, copper, thiamin, and 
zinc. Its mild flavor and crunchy texture make it an excellent 
vehicle for pickling.
1. Rinse the lotus root in water.
2. Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil over 
medium-high heat and add the lotus root. When the 
water returns to a boil, simmer for 1 minute. Drain and 
place the lotus root in a container with a lid.
3. In a small bowl, stir together the rice vinegar, sugar, soy 
sauce, salt, sesame oil, chili oil, and dried chile. Pour 
over the lotus root and toss to mix. Cover the container 
and refrigerate for 12 hours. This will keep for 1 month 
in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Lotus root is actually the rhizome of 
the lotus flower. They have segments linked like sausages 
and are usually sold in shorter portions. Find them 
in the produce section at Asian markets. If you have 
trouble finding lotus root, jicama or water chestnuts are 
good substitutes.48 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALT-PICKLED VEGETABLES | ShIoZUKE
JAPAN
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Curing time:  2 to 8 hours
3 mini seedless cucumbers, 
like Kirby or Persian
2 small carrots
10 ounces daikon radish 
(1 small radish)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
4 cups warm water
Optional mix-ins: garlic 
(1 clove), ginger (2 thin 
slices), kombu (1-inch 
square piece), chiles 
(1 to 2 peppers), citrus zest 
(2-inch piece)Shiozuke is a Japanese tsukemono (which means “pickled 
things”) made with just salt and vegetables. I use a salt-to-
water ratio of 1 tablespoon salt to 1 cup water, but the 
amount of salt and the pickling time can be altered to suit 
your preferences. Here, I have chosen to pickle cucumbers, 
carrots, and daikon, but feel free to use any vegetable in 
season. Keep in mind that the size and texture of your 
vegetables will determine how quickly the pickles will reach 
your desired level of saltiness. If you cut the vegetables to 
create more surface area, the pickling process is faster than 
if you leave the vegetables whole, halved, or quartered. 
Experiment to determine your favorite combinations.
1. Peel the cucumbers in alternating 1/2 -inch-wide strips. 
Peel the carrots. Peel the daikon and cut crosswise to 
the same length as the cucumber and carrot. Then cut 
all the vegetables into halves or quarters, depending 
on their size. Place the vegetables in one or more 
containers or zip-top bags large enough to hold them, 
the brine, and a weight. You can choose to use one to 
three separate containers. I use rectangular Pyrex glass 
containers with tight-fitting lids.
2. Stir the salt into the warm water until it dissolves 
completely. Add any optional mix-ins if desired. 
When the brine is cool, pour it over the vegetables to 
completely cover them. Save any leftover brine in the 
refrigerator. Place a weight (see page 14 for options) on 
top to keep the vegetables submerged under the brine. 
Refrigerate for a minimum of 2 hours and no longer 
than 8 hours.49 Fast and Fresh Pickles3. Drain the vegetables and save the brine to pickle more. 
Wrap the vegetables in paper towels to absorb all 
liquid. Cut the vegetables you will serve immediately 
on the bias into bite-size pieces and arrange on a 
plate. Serve.
4. Leave the remaining pickled vegetables uncut. They 
will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days.
TRY IT WIT h: This dish is a perfect accompaniment to 
a meal of rice, miso soup, and a protein. Salt-pickling 
vegetables makes it easy to have vegetables with every 
meal. They also make for a tasty and healthy snack.50 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESHREDDED VEGETABLE PICKLES | ACHaRa
PHILIPPINES
Makes:  2 pints  | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes, plus 1 hour salting time  | Curing time:  12 hours
1 pound firm green papaya, 
peeled and shredded 
(1/2 small papaya)
1 pound jicama, peeled and 
shredded (1 medium jicama)
1 cup peeled and shredded 
carrot (1 medium carrot)
1 cup sliced red bell pepper 
(1 small pepper)
1 cup thinly sliced red onion 
(1 small onion)
3 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt, divided
3 cups rice vinegar
1 cup water
11/2 cups sugar
3 garlic cloves, smashed
1 (2-inch) knob fresh 
ginger, peeled and cut 
into matchsticks
1 fresh red chile, like 
Fresno or serrano, thinly 
sliced (optional)
Freshly ground black pepperAchara  is the catchall term for Filipino-style pickles, 
generally made with souring agents that range from vinegar 
to lime juice to tamarind. The main ingredient is usually 
green papaya, but I like to add some jicama as well. You can 
also add radishes or kohlrabi to the mix. Enjoy achara as 
you would a relish or salsa, to add texture and tang to grilled 
meats or fish.
1. Toss the papaya, jicama, carrot, bell pepper, and onion 
with 2 tablespoons of salt in a colander. Place a weight 
on top and set aside to drain in the sink for 1 hour.
2. Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan over medium-high 
heat, combine the vinegar, water, sugar, remaining 
1 tablespoon of salt, garlic, ginger, and chile (if using). 
Bring to a boil and stir until the sugar and salt dissolve 
completely. Reduce the heat to medium-low and 
simmer for 15 to 20 minutes to allow the flavors to 
meld. Remove from the heat and add a few grinds of 
black pepper.
3. Rinse the vegetables under cold running water. Wrap 
handfuls of vegetables in a non-terry-cloth dish 
towel or cheesecloth and squeeze to remove excess 
moisture. You may need to do this in several batches.51 Fast and Fresh Pickles4. Pack the vegetables into 2 pint-size jars and pour 
enough of the pickling solution over each to cover the 
vegetables by 1/4 inch. Seal and keep in the refrigerator 
for at least 12 hours, then serve at room temperature. 
Achara keeps for up to 6 months in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  To make light work of shredding the 
vegetables, use a mandoline, box shredder, julienne peeler, 
or a Vietnamese slicer and shredder tool called dao bao. 
You can also use the shredding attachment tool on a food 
processor. The size of the shreds makes no difference, as 
long as the vegetables are all of similar size.INDONESIAN CHILI P ASTE | S AMBAL OELEK, PAGE 5753
CHAPTER 3
Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings
Roasted Chile Jam | Nam Prik Pao 56
Indonesian Chile Paste | Sambal Oelek 57
Shrimp Paste Sambal | Sambal Terasi 58
Lime Juice Pickle 60
Thai Sweet Chile Sauce 62
Mango Chutney 63
Tomato-Date Chutney 64
Cilantro-Mint Chutney 65
Green Mango Pickle 66
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce | Amba 68
Fiery Lime Pickle | Nimbu Ka Achaar 70
Sri Lankan Chile Paste | Katta Sambol 72
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce) 73
Banana Ketchup 74
Fermented White Tofu | Bai Fu Ru 76
Lemongrass Chile Sauce 78
Momo Sauce 79
Korean Red Pepper Paste | Gochujang 8054 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
PICKLE PASSPORT: INDIA
Must-try pickles: Fiery Lime Pickle (page 70), Green Mango Pickle (page 66), 
Mango Chutney (page 63), Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce (page 68)
Pickling goes way back in India. In fact, the Museum of Food and 
Drink in New York City reports that cucumbers native to India were 
first pickled in 2030 BCE in the Tigris Valley. As in many places, 
pickling started in India as a way to preserve foods for travel and 
for long periods.
There are two basic types of Indian pickles: pickles that are 
preserved in oil and pickles that are not. Pickles preserved in oil 
are widely considered the Indian pickle. Collectively known as 
achaar or aachar in Hindi, these pickles are quite different from 
the Western idea of a pickle. Yes, various kinds of produce are 
pickled with salt (and sometimes sugar), but the crowning touch 
is a tadka, made by tempering spices in oil. This seasoning oil is 
typically redolent with fenugreek seeds, mustard seeds, and curry 
leaves, and it is folded into the pickle, where it acts as a preserva -
tive. The type of oil favored depends on region. Southern states 
prefer sesame oil. In the north, mustard oil is used extensively 
for cooking and particularly in achaars. Mustard oil is prized for 
its spicy, wasabi-like aroma, but its use is restricted in the United 
States, because it contains high levels of erucic acid that may 
contribute to the development of heart disease. You can still find 
mustard oil at Indian markets, but it is labeled “for external use 
only.” While millions of people consume it in India regularly, you 
should use mustard oil at your own discretion.55 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings
A traditional Indian meal is not complete without achaar. In 
fact, a basic meal may comprise just achaar and rice. Achaar may 
complement biryanis, curries, and tandoori meats. Achaars can 
be made from a variety of fruits and vegetables: limes, eggplant, 
cauliflower, and carrots. Fish and meats are also pickled. Mangos, 
however, are at the top of the totem pole. Mango achaar is usually 
made during the summer months, when the fruit is abundant.
Mangos also show up in chutneys. Technically more of a relish 
than a pickle, chutneys are made by combining fruit, herbs, and/ or  
vegetables with a souring agent. True Indian chutneys are savory, 
like Cilantro-Mint Chutney (page 65), coconut chutney, and 
peanut chutney. Sweet fruit chutneys made with fruit, vinegar, 
and sugar, like Mango Chutney (page 63) and plum chutney, are 
probably an Anglo-Indian invention that originated during British 
rule in India, between 1858 and 1947.
56 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEROASTED CHILE JAM | NaM PRIK Pao
THAILAND
Makes:  11/2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Cook time:  20 minutes
6 ounces fresh long red chiles, 
like Fresno or serrano, seeded 
if desired (8 chiles)
2 Thai red chiles (optional)
1/2 to 1 cup vegetable oil, 
like canola, divided and 
as needed
2 small heads garlic, peeled 
(16 cloves)
3 ounces small shallots or 
pickling red onions, peeled 
(6 to 8 shallots)
1/4 cup palm sugar or light 
brown sugar
2 tablespoons lime juice
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1/2 cup waterThis dark, flavorful chile paste often accompanies the 
popular Thai red curry noodle dish khao soi. The original 
recipe calls for shrimp paste and dried shrimp, but I’ve 
omitted them to simplify it. Not to worry, though: The fish 
sauce still adds umami, and frying the paste in the last step 
deepens the flavor.
1. In a large dry skillet over medium heat, roast all of the 
chiles for 6 to 8 minutes, turning occasionally, until 
they are lightly charred. Transfer to a plate and set 
aside to cool.
2. In the same skillet over medium heat, heat 1/2 cup of 
oil until shimmering hot. Fry the garlic and shallots, 
turning frequently, until they are golden brown on the 
outside and soft inside, 8 to 10 minutes. Set aside 
to cool.
3. When the chiles are cool enough to handle, peel off 
any burnt spots. Put the chiles in the bowl of a small 
food processor and blitz until they resemble confetti. 
Add the garlic and shallots and blitz until a coarse 
paste forms.
4. Add more oil to the skillet—about 1/2 cup—and heat 
over medium heat. Stir in the chile paste, sugar, 
lime juice, fish sauce, and water. Stir and cook over 
medium heat until the mixture turns into a thick, dark, 
aromatic paste, about 10 minutes. Remove from the 
heat and set aside to cool completely. Once it is cool, 
use immediately or store in a sealed glass jar in the 
refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
TRY IT WIT h: Use this chile paste to flavor stir-fries. I like 
it particularly with okra, but eggplant and zucchini would 
taste great, too.57 Chutneys, Sauces, and SeasoningsINDONESIAN CHILE PASTE | SaMBAL o ELEK
INDONESIA
Makes:  1/4 cup  | Prep time:  10 minutes
21/2 ounces fresh long red 
chiles, like Fresno or serrano, 
seeded if desired and 
chopped (2 chiles)
1/8 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 tablespoon fresh lime or Key 
lime juice
Pinch sugar (optional)The Indonesian word oelek  means to “to grind,” and sambal 
oelek refers to a chile paste that is ground in a mortar with 
a pestle. In its simplest form, this chile paste is made from 
chiles, salt, and lime juice. You can always add some bird 
or Thai chiles to make it spicier. While you can find sambal 
oelek in jars, in Indonesia it’s always made fresh to order. 
You’ll love how much fresher tasting this quick option is. I 
like it on fried rice and as a dip for fresh vegetables. If you 
want to make it in bulk, just multiply the ingredients and use 
a food processor.
Place the chiles and salt in a mortar. Grind the chiles with 
the pestle, using a twisting motion, until pulpy. Stir in 
the lime juice and sugar (if using). Taste and adjust the 
seasonings if desired. Serve immediately.
SWITCh IT uP:  There are dozens of different types of chile 
paste in Indonesia. Try experimenting by adding ingredients 
like garlic, shallots, lemongrass, and lime leaves.58 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESHRIMP PASTE SAMBAL | SaMBAL TER aSI
INDONESIA
Makes:  1 cup  | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Cook time:  5 minutes
1 block dried shrimp paste 
(see the ingredient tip)
6 ounces fresh long red chiles, 
like Fresno or serrano, 
seeded and coarsely chopped 
(8 chiles)
1 tablespoon palm sugar or 
dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed 
lime or Key lime juiceShrimp paste sambal comes in two forms: fresh or cooked. 
This is my super-easy fresh version. The key ingredient 
in this sambal is dried shrimp paste (terasi/trassi in 
 Indonesian), made by fermenting shrimp and salt for many 
months in the sun. While terasi has an overpowering odor 
raw, it mellows dramatically when cooked and adds tons 
of umami to a dish. There is no substitute for shrimp paste. 
I use sambal terasi as a dipping sauce for fried chicken and 
fried eggs or as a flavoring paste for stir-fries.
1. Open a window and turn your fan on full blast.
2. Cut two slices (or as many slices as fit in your pan), 
each about 1/4-inch thick, from the block of shrimp 
paste. Put the slices in a small dry skillet and toast 
until browned and fragrant, about 5 minutes. The 
shrimp paste should no longer be soft on the inside 
and should crumble easily. Grind the toasted shrimp 
paste in a mortar with a pestle, or place in a zip-top 
bag and pound with a meat pounder until a coarse 
powder forms. Measure out 1 tablespoon and save 
the remainder for another use (such as in a stir-fry or 
soup). The paste lasts for 6 months in the refrigerator.59 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings3. In a mortar, combine 1 tablespoon toasted shrimp 
paste with the chiles, sugar, and lime juice and grind 
with a pestle. You may have to add the chiles gradually. 
You may also blitz the mixture in a small food 
processor until the paste resembles cooked oatmeal. 
Serve immediately. This sambal keeps for 1 week in 
the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Terasi is sold in 250-gram blocks at 
Asian markets, or sometimes in small packs of 5 grams 
each. You may find blocks of shrimp paste labeled 
“belachan,” which is Malay for shrimp paste, and they 
can be used interchangeably. If you’re lucky, you may find 
granulated shrimp paste that’s already toasted, is much 
easier to use, and allows you to skip the toasting part 
of step 2.60 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMELIME JUICE PICKLE
INDIA
Makes:  1/2 cup  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Cook time:  5 minutes  | Fermenting time:  1 to 4 days
FoR ThE PICKLE
1 tablespoon sesame seeds
1 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
1/2 teaspoon mustard seeds
1/2 cup fresh lime juice (from 
4 large limes)
1 tablespoon ground red chili 
powder, like cayenne
1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
FoR TEMPERING
2 tablespoons vegetable oil, 
like canola
1/4 teaspoon cumin seeds
1/4 teaspoon mustard seeds
1/4 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
4 or 5 curry leaves
2 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol, crushedUnlike Fiery Lime Pickle (page 70), this pickle contains only 
lime juice and no lime pieces. It’s a great pickle to make 
when you’ve run out of vegetables. It’s quick and easy to 
make, and once you have the spices, it can be made on 
demand. Fermenting intensifies the flavors, but if you’re 
impatient, skip it. This tangy, spicy condiment brightens up 
any rice dish and even oatmeal!
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. MaKE ThE PICKLE  MIxTuRE: In a small dry skillet 
over medium heat, toast the sesame, fenugreek, and 
mustard seeds until they start to pop and release their 
fragrance, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove from the heat and 
grind in a spice grinder or with a mortar and pestle.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together the ground spice 
mixture, lime juice, chili powder, turmeric, and salt until 
there are no lumps.
4. If you have the time, cover the bowl with cheesecloth 
and ferment for 1 to 4 days at room temperature.
5. TEMPER  ThE PICKLE : When ready to serve, heat the 
oil in a small skillet over medium heat. Add the cumin, 
mustard, and fenugreek seeds. When the seeds start 
to pop and release their fragrance, 30 seconds to 
1 minute, add the curry leaves and red chiles and stir 
for about 1 minute. Be careful not to burn the chiles 
and curry leaves. Remove from the heat and set aside 
to cool.61 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings6. When the tempering oil is cool, add it to the lime juice 
mixture. Serve immediately. This pickle keeps for 
2 weeks in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Curry leaves are available fresh and 
sometimes frozen at Indian and Asian markets. If you can’t 
find them, omit them. If possible, buy whole spices and buy 
only what you need in the bulk section. Spices lose their 
flavor and aroma about 6 months after purchase. A blade 
coffee grinder (not a burr grinder) can double as a spice 
grinder. Just be sure to clean it thoroughly by grinding some 
uncooked rice inside before and after. This will keep your 
spices from tasting like coffee and vice versa.62 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMETHAI SWEET CHILE SAUCE
THAILAND
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Cook time:  45 minutes to 1 hour
8 ounces fresh long red chiles, 
like Fresno or serrano, mostly 
seeded and coarsely chopped 
(8 chiles)
6 Thai red chiles, coarsely 
chopped (optional)
8 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped
1/4 teaspoon salt
11/2 cups distilled white vinegar
3 cups water
21/2 cups sugar
1 (1-inch) knob fresh ginger, 
peeled and cut into 
3 or 4 coinsThis sweet chile sauce is so versatile. Use it to flavor 
stir-fried vegetables or as a dipping sauce for fried spring 
rolls. You can tinker with the sweet-tart balance toward the 
end of cooking by adding sugar or vinegar.
1. In the bowl of a food processor or blender, combine 
both types of chiles, the garlic, and the salt and blitz to 
confetti-size bits.
2. Transfer the chile mixture to a large nonreactive 
saucepan. Add the vinegar, water, sugar, and ginger 
coins and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. 
Reduce the heat to a simmer and simmer until the 
volume has reduced by half and the sauce is as thick as 
syrup. The timing will depend on how wide and deep 
your pan is. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool 
completely. The sauce will thicken even further.
3. Remove the ginger coins. Pour the sauce into 
4 half-pint jars. Use immediately or refrigerate. This 
sauce keeps for 6 months in the refrigerator.
YES You CaN! While it's not traditional, this sauce can be 
canned so it keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. Following 
the canning instructions on page 15, pour the hot sauce into 
4 half-pint jars that have been washed with soap and hot 
water, leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove any air bubbles, 
wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in a water-bath 
canner for 10 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before removing the 
jars, and check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.63 Chutneys, Sauces, and SeasoningsMANGO CHUTNEY
INDIA
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Cook time:  45 minutes to 1 hour  | Curing time:  2 weeks
4 cups green or underripe 
mangos, peeled and 
cut into 1/2-inch cubes 
(2 large mangos)
2 teaspoons coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt, divided
11/2 cups apple cider vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon grated 
fresh ginger
1/4 cup golden sultanas, 
raisins, or currants
1/2 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 fresh long green chile, 
like jalapeño or serrano, 
split lengthwiseMango chutney is a delicious addition to any meal, South 
Asian or otherwise. It’s lovely served with roast chicken or 
spread on a grilled cheese sandwich. Alternatively, thin it 
with water to glaze pork tenderloin.
1. In a large nonreactive bowl, toss the mangos with 
1 teaspoon of salt and set aside.
2. In a large pot over medium heat, combine the vinegar 
and sugar and bring to a gentle boil, stirring until the 
sugar dissolves completely. Add the garlic, ginger, 
sultanas, turmeric, chile, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt 
and bring back to a boil.
3. Add the mangos and mix well. Adjust the heat and 
simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until the mangos turn 
translucent and the chutney has thickened, stirring 
occasionally. Taste (it should be mostly sweet with a 
touch of sour) and adjust the seasonings if desired. 
Remove from the heat and pick out the chile.
4. Ladle the chutney into 2 half-pint jars, leaving a 1/2-inch 
headspace. This chutney can be eaten immediately, but 
it tastes better after the flavors have melded for at least 
2 weeks. It keeps in the refrigerator for up to 1 year.
YES You CaN! Mango chutney can be canned so it 
keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. Double the quantities. 
Following the canning instructions on page 15, ladle the hot 
chutney into 2 hot, pint-size jars that have been washed 
with hot, soapy water, leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove 
any air bubbles, wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in 
a water-bath canner for 10 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before 
removing the jars, and check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.64 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMETOMATO-DATE CHUTNEY
INDIA
Makes:  2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Cook time:  15 minutes
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1/4 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/4 teaspoon cumin seeds
1/4 teaspoon black 
mustard seeds
1/4 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
1/4 teaspoon nigella seeds
2 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol, crushed, 
seeded if desired
1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger
1/2 pound Roma tomatoes (4 or 
5 tomatoes)
1/2 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 tablespoon raisins
2 tablespoons dates, pitted 
and chopped (4 large dates)
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon dried mango 
powder (amchur powder, 
see the ingredient tip) or 
lime juiceTomato-date chutney is a sweet, spicy chutney that is 
flavored with panch phoron, or Bengali five-spice mix. Panch 
phoron generally is made of the following five whole spices: 
fennel seeds, cumin seeds, black mustard seeds, fenugreek 
seeds, and nigella seeds. Even if you don’t have all the spices, 
the dish will still be very fragrant. This chutney is delicious 
eaten as an appetizer, as a snack with papadum (thin, crisp 
flatbread made from black gram flour), or as a side dish with 
flatbread like chapatti or naan. Try it with another dried fruit 
(like figs, cherries, or cranberries) if you like.
1. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, warm the 
oil. Add the fennel seeds, cumin seeds, mustard seeds, 
fenugreek seeds, and nigella seeds. Fry until the seeds 
start to pop and release their fragrance, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add the chiles and stir a few seconds. Stir in the ginger 
and cook until fragrant, 30 seconds to 1 minute.
2. Add the whole tomatoes and salt and stir to combine. 
Cover and cook over medium-low heat until the 
tomatoes soften and fall apart, 9 to 10 minutes.
3. Stir in the raisins and dates. Add the sugar and mango 
powder. Stir often, breaking up the tomatoes into small 
bits with a wooden spatula or spoon. Cook until the 
chutney thickens, 4 to 5 minutes. If the chutney starts 
sticking to the pan, add water 1 tablespoon at a time. 
Taste and add more sugar or salt if desired. Remove 
from the heat and serve immediately. Store leftovers in 
an airtight container in the refrigerator for 4 to 5 days.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Mango powder, or amchur, is made by 
drying green, unripe mango slices in the sun, then grinding 
them to a fine powder. Like tamarind, it adds a pleasant 
sweet-sour taste to dishes. You can find it at Indian or 
Asian grocery stores.65 Chutneys, Sauces, and SeasoningsCILANTRO-MINT CHUTNEY
INDIA
Makes:  1 cup  | Prep time:  10 minutes
3 fresh green chiles, like 
jalapeño, serrano, or Korean, 
seeded if desired
1/2 cup packed cilantro leaves
1/2 cup packed fresh 
mint leaves
1/4 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon sugar
21/2 teaspoons lemon juice
1/4 cup water
1/4 teaspoon chaat 
masala (optional)
1 tablespoon yogurt (optional)Cilantro-mint chutney is quick and easy to make. In addition 
to accompanying Indian snacks like samosas and papadum, 
this chutney is tasty in tacos or as a dip for tortilla chips. 
With the addition of yogurt, it makes a nice salad dressing or 
sauce for grilled vegetables. It is also a very versatile green 
chile sauce. Depending on your preference or mood, you 
can use all cilantro or all mint. Just add two small cloves of 
garlic (garlic-mint chutney!) or a 2-inch piece of fresh ginger 
(ginger-cilantro chutney!).
Combine the chiles, cilantro, mint, salt, sugar, lemon juice, 
water, and chaat masala (if using) in a food processor 
or blender. Blitz until a smooth sauce forms. Taste and 
add more salt and/or lemon juice if desired. If it isn’t 
spicy enough, add more chiles and blitz again. Pour into 
a serving bowl and stir in the yogurt (if using). Serve 
immediately. This chutney keeps for up to 5 days in the 
refrigerator, or you can freeze it in an airtight container for 
up to 3 months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chaat masala is a spice mix of dried mango 
powder, cumin, coriander, ginger, salt, black pepper, asafoetida, 
and chili powder. It’s available at Indian markets.66 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEGREEN MANGO PICKLE
INDIA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep and Cook time:  15 minutes, plus 2 hours dehydrating time  |  
Curing time:  2 days to 1 week
FoR ThE PICKLE
4 to 5 cups green or underripe 
mangos, unpeeled, roughly 
chopped (2 large mangos)
2 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
2 tablespoons mild red chili 
powder like Kashmiri (or a 
mix of paprika and red chili 
powder for milder palates)
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 teaspoon ground coriander
FoR TEMPERING
1/4 cup fenugreek seeds
2 teaspoons black 
mustard seeds
1/4 cup vegetable oil, 
like canola
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 teaspoons grated 
fresh ginger
1/4 teaspoon asafoetida powder 
(see page 71)
Juice of 2 limesIn traditional mango pickles, mangos are usually sun-dried 
to concentrate their flavors. I learned a quick trick from 
Burma Superstar: Addictive Recipes from the Crossroads of 
Southeast Asia by Desmond Tan and Kate Leahy: Dehydrate 
them in a low-heat oven for the same effect. In India, green 
mangos are bred specifically for pickling. Here in the United 
States, mangos like Kent or Tommy Atkins are completely 
green when unripe and  turn yellow/red as they ripen. They 
are larger and not as sour. If you can’t find green mangos, 
look for the most underripe ones possible and make up for it 
with more lime juice.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water. 
Preheat the oven to 200°F.
2. MaKE ThE PICKLE : On a large baking sheet, toss the 
mangos with the salt, chili powder, cumin, turmeric, 
and coriander. Bake undisturbed for 2 hours to 
dehydrate the mangos and infuse them with the spices. 
The mango skin will curl at the edges. Transfer to a 
large nonreactive bowl.
3. TEMPER  ThE PICKLE : For tempering, in a small dry 
skillet, toast the fenugreek and mustard seeds over 
medium heat until they start to pop and release their 
fragrance, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Grind with a spice 
grinder or with a mortar and pestle.
4. Using the same skillet over medium heat, warm the 
oil. Add the garlic and ginger, and cook until golden, 
about 1 minute. Remove from the heat. Stir in the 
fenugreek-mustard mixture and the asafoetida. Set 
aside to cool completely.67 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings5. When the seasoned oil has cooled, pour it over the 
mangos and gently mix. Spoon the mango pickle into a 
quart-size glass jar (at least 2 cups), leaving a 1/2-inch 
headspace. Squeeze in the lime juice, cap the jar 
tightly, and shake well. Keep at room temperature for 
2 days, or up to 1 week, shaking the jar daily to evenly 
distribute the spices, and then refrigerate. This mango 
pickle keeps for up to 6 months in the refrigerator.
SWITCh IT uP:  Try this basic recipe with other vegetables  
like chopped cauliflower or carrots, but skip the 
dehydrating. Blanch the vegetables first, if you prefer. 
Add some brown sugar to the mix, too, if you like 
sweet-savory flavors.68 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESWEET, SOUR, AND SPICY MANGO SAUCE | AMBa
INDIA/ISRAEL
Makes:  2 cups  | Prep and Cook time:  15 minutes  | Fermenting time:  5 to 10 days  |  
Curing time:  24 hours
4 cups firm, unripe mangos, 
peeled and cut into 1-inch 
cubes (11/2 to 2 pounds or 
2 mangos)
2 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
4 cups warm water, divided, 
plus more as needed
1 teaspoon mustard seeds
1 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1 small fresh red or 
green chile, like Thai, 
chopped (optional)
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon hot red chili 
powder, like cayenne
1/4 teaspoon sweet 
smoked paprika
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
2 tablespoons brown sugar
Juice and zest of 1 large limeWhile amba sauce is a popular condiment at falafel 
stands in Israel, its undeniable similarity to Indian mango 
pickle reveals its Indian heritage. Apparently, the sauce 
was invented by Iraqi Jews living in Bombay during the 
19th  century and was brought to Israel in the 1950s. Today, 
amba is often used as a dressing for shawarma sandwiches 
and always on the popular Israeli sabich sandwich.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Pack the mangos into 2 quart-size jars. Stir the salt into 
2 cups warm water until it dissolves completely. Divide 
this brine between the jars. Place a weight on top of 
the mangos and seal. Ferment for 5 to 10 days at room 
temperature. Burp daily for the first few days to release 
the pressure from the carbon dioxide.
3. When the mangos are fermented to your liking (they 
should taste a little tart and pungent), drain in a 
colander and discard the brine.
4. In a dry medium saucepan over medium-high heat, 
toast the mustard seeds and fenugreek seeds until 
they start to pop and smell fragrant, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Watch carefully so they don’t burn. Remove from the 
heat and grind in a spice grinder or with a mortar and 
pestle. Set aside.
5. Pour the vegetable oil into the same saucepan and 
warm over medium heat. Add the garlic and fresh chile 
(if using) and stir, cooking until the garlic is light golden 
but not browned, about 1 minute. Add the cumin, 
chili powder, paprika, and turmeric. Stir and cook for 
1 more minute.69 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings6. Add the mangos, sugar, and remaining 2 cups water 
and adjust the heat to a simmer. Cook for 5 to 
6 minutes, until the mangos have softened and the 
mixture has reduced a little. Remove from the heat, 
and add the lime juice and zest and additional salt to 
taste. Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired. Set 
aside to cool for a few minutes.
7. Pour the mixture into a blender, or use an immersion 
blender. Puree until smooth. Add some water to thin 
the sauce if desired.
8. Pour the sauce into a pint-size jar and cure for 
24 hours in the refrigerator. The sauce will keep in the 
refrigerator for 3 months.
TRY IT WIT h: Serve amba as a sauce for chicken or 
grilled tofu, as a replacement for hot sauce in tacos, or on 
a hamburger.70 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEFIERY LIME PICKLE | NIMBu Ka ACHaAR
INDIA
Makes:  2 pints  | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes, plus 2 hours sitting time  |  
Fermenting time:  2 weeks
FoR ThE PICKLE
2 pounds limes, preferably 
thin-skinned and organic 
(about 15 large limes)
5 garlic cloves, minced
1 (2-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
2 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
2 tablespoons sugar (optional)
1/4 cup mild red chili powder, 
like Kashmiri
2 teaspoons ground turmeric
2 teaspoons ground 
fenugreek seeds
1 teaspoon asafoetida powder 
(see the ingredient tip)
FoR TEMPERING
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon mustard seeds
1 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
10 curry leaves
4 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol, broken 
into piecesLime pickle is one of India’s most popular condiments. It 
is often eaten with rice, parathas, and/or lentils. There are 
many recipes for lime pickle; several require salting and 
fermenting the limes in the sun for several weeks until they 
turn brown, before tossing them with spices and tempering 
oil. I’m impatient and didn’t do that. For variety, you can also 
use lemons or Key limes. If you don’t like it too spicy, replace 
up to 2 tablespoons of the chili powder with paprika.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. MaKE ThE PICKLE : Scrub the limes to remove wax 
and dirt. Cut 10 limes into eighths and put them into 
a large nonreactive bowl. Halve the remaining 5 limes 
and squeeze their juice into the bowl.
3. Add the garlic, ginger, salt, sugar (if using), chili 
powder, turmeric, fenugreek, and asafoetida to 
the bowl.
4. Mix well with gloved hands and cover the bowl with 
plastic wrap. Set aside for 2 hours, or up to 12 hours.
5. TEMPER  ThE PICKLE : In a small skillet over medium 
heat, warm the oil. Add the mustard seeds and 
fenugreek seeds. When the seeds start to pop and 
release their fragrance, 30 seconds to 1 minute, add 
the curry leaves and red chiles and stir for about 
1 minute. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool.
6. When the spices have cooled completely, add them 
to the bowl and mix well. Scoop the lime pickle into 
2 pint-size jars, leaving 1/2 inch of headspace.71 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings7. Keep the jars at room temperature in a location with 
plenty of sunlight. Invert the jars every day to distribute 
the contents evenly. Ferment for at least 2 weeks, 
or longer if possible. Lime pickle will keep in the 
refrigerator for at least 1 year. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  Asafoetida (also called “hing”) is an 
Indian spice that flavors soups, vegetable dishes, pickles, 
and relishes. It is a dried resin that comes from three giant 
fennel species. Sold as a powder, asafoetida has a strong, 
pungent smell and tastes bitter and musky on its own. But 
once it’s cooked in oil, it becomes pleasantly onionlike. You 
can find it at Indian markets.72 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESRI LANKAN CHILE PASTE | KaTTA SaMBoL
SRI LANKA
Makes:  11/2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes
2 cups coarsely chopped 
shallot or red onion 
(6 ounces)
8 small dried red chiles, 
like chiles de arbol, or 
3 tablespoons red chili flakes
1/4 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
10 curry leaves
1 tablespoon Maldive fish 
chips (optional, see the 
ingredient tip)
2 teaspoons freshly squeezed 
lime juice
Red chili powder, like cayenne, 
for colorThis Sri Lankan chile paste is much like the chile pastes of 
other Asian countries. It is eaten with traditional foods like 
coconut milk rice, hoppers, and roti (flatbread).
In a food processor, combine the shallots, chiles, and salt. 
Blitz until a coarse paste forms. Add the curry leaves and 
the fish chips (if using), and blitz again until you reach 
your desired consistency. Spoon into a bowl and add the 
lime juice. Mix well and taste. Add more salt or lime juice 
if desired. Sprinkle with the red chili powder for color.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Maldive fish chips (umbalakada) are small 
chips of dried tuna that are a staple of Sri Lankan cuisine. They 
are a flavor enhancer and thickening agent and can be replaced 
with fish sauce or shrimp paste, or you can opt to eliminate 
them for a vegetarian sambai. They are available online or at 
any store that carries Sri Lankan foods.73 Chutneys, Sauces, and SeasoningsPLUM SAUCE ( OR DUCK SAUCE)
CHINA
Makes:  2 pints  | Prep time:  20 minutes  | Cook time:  30 to 45 minutes
2 pounds plums and/or  
apricots, pitted and 
coarsely chopped
1/2 cup chopped yellow onion 
(4 ounces)
2 garlic cloves, chopped
2 tablespoons grated 
fresh ginger
1 fresh long red chile, like 
Fresno or serrano, chopped
1/2 cup apple cider vinegar or 
distilled white vinegar
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 teaspoon Chinese 
five-spice powderPlum sauce is also called duck sauce, because it often 
accompanies roasted duck. A staple at Chinese restaurants 
in the United States, plum sauce is used as a dipping sauce 
for fried egg rolls and wonton strips. It also makes a good 
stir-fry sauce.
1. In a medium pot over medium-high heat, combine the 
plums, onion, garlic, ginger, chile, vinegar, sugar, salt, 
and five-spice powder and bring to a boil. Adjust the 
heat and simmer for 30 to 45 minutes, until the plums 
have broken down and the sauce thickens. Stir often 
to keep the bottom from burning. Taste and adjust the 
seasonings if desired.
2. Use an immersion blender to puree into a smooth 
sauce, or pour the mixture into a food processor or 
blender and puree it until smooth. You may need to do 
this in batches. Set it aside to cool. Ladle the sauce into 
pint-size jars. The sauce can be eaten immediately or 
kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 weeks.
YES You CaN! Plum sauce can be canned so that it 
keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. Following the canning 
instructions on page 15, ladle hot plum sauce into pint-size 
jars that have been washed with hot, soapy water, leaving 
a 1/4-inch headspace. Remove any air bubbles, wipe the 
rims, and seal the jars. Process in a water-bath canner for 
15 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before removing the jars, and 
check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.74 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEBANANA KETCHUP
PHILIPPINES
Makes:  11/2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Cook time:  30 minutes
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 garlic cloves, chopped
1/2 cup chopped onion
1 teaspoon grated fresh ginger
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1/4 cup rice vinegar
1/2 cup water
1 cup bananas, mashed 
(2 bananas)
2 Thai red chiles, seeded and 
chopped (optional)
2 tablespoons light 
brown sugar
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 clove, crushed
1/4 teaspoon ground paprika
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamonBanana ketchup is a condiment unique to the Philippines. 
It was invented during World War II, when tomatoes were 
scarce and bananas plentiful in the Philippines. To make it 
resemble traditional ketchup, red dye is sometimes added. 
It is used very much like tomato ketchup on hot dogs, 
 hamburgers, and fried chicken, and sometimes in Filipino 
spaghetti sauce. Don’t be afraid of the long ingredients 
list—you likely have most of these items on hand already.
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, warm the 
oil. Add the garlic, onion, and ginger. Stir and cook for 
4 to 5 minutes, until soft and fragrant.
2. Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the tomato 
paste. Stir and cook until the paste turns a shade or 
two darker and smells fragrant. Add the vinegar and 
water and deglaze the pan, stirring to scrape up the 
brown bits from the bottom.
3. Add the bananas, chiles (if using), brown sugar, salt, 
black pepper, clove, paprika, and cinnamon. Mix well, 
raise the heat to medium-high, and bring the mixture 
to a gentle boil. Adjust the heat and simmer for 20 to 
30 minutes, until the mixture thickens slightly.
4. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool for 5 to 
10 minutes. Use an immersion blender or transfer the 
mixture to the bowl of a food processor or blender. 
Blitz until smooth. Add water to thin the ketchup if 
necessary. Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired.75 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings5. Pour the banana ketchup into a pint-size jar. It will keep 
for 3 months in the refrigerator.
YES You CaN! While it's not traditional, banana ketchup 
can be canned so it keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. 
Double the recipe. Following the canning instructions 
on page 15, ladle hot ketchup into 6 half-pint jars that 
have been washed in hot, soapy water, leaving a 1/2-inch 
headspace. Remove any air bubbles, wipe the rims, and 
seal the jars. Process in a water-bath canner for 15 minutes. 
Wait 5 minutes before removing the jars, and check the 
seals after 12 to 24 hours.76 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEFERMENTED WHITE TOFU | BaI FU RU
CHINA
Makes:  8 ounces  | Prep time:  15 minutes, plus 2 hours pressing time  | Fermenting time:  2 to 5 days  | 
Curing time:  4 weeks
1/2 (14- to 16-ounce) block 
firm or extra-firm tofu
11/2 tablespoons fine sea salt
1/2 teaspoon red chili 
flakes, crushed Sichuan 
peppercorns, or crushed 
fennel seeds (optional)
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup Chinese rice wineTraditionally, fermented tofu is used as a condiment in 
cooking, with rice, or to flavor stir-fries; it adds tons of 
umami to any dish. I never thought of fermenting tofu at 
home until I saw a recipe in Asian Tofu: Discover the Best, 
Make Your Own, and Cook It at Home , a delightful cookbook 
by Andrea Nguyen. Now I can make my own fermented 
tofu using organic tofu without the nasty preservatives. This 
recipe is based on Andrea’s.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Press the tofu to remove excess water. Wrap it in a 
thick non-terry-cloth kitchen towel or several layers of 
cheesecloth and place it between two cutting boards. 
Weigh it down with a heavy book, a cast-iron skillet, 
or canned goods. After about 2 hours, unwrap the 
tofu. It should feel slightly moist to the touch and very 
firm. Blot the block with paper towels and cut it into 
1-inch cubes.
3. In a large rectangular glass container, place the tofu 
cubes spaced 1/2 inch to 1 inch apart. You want to be 
able to observe for mold growth. Cover tightly with 
plastic wrap and make 6 to 8 holes with a bamboo 
skewer for ventilation.
4. Keep the tofu at room temperature for 2 to 5 days, 
observing and smelling every day. Expect to see some 
condensation. The tofu is ready for the next step when 
it looks slick and wet, it is covered in orange-yellow 
mold, it smells pungent, and it is soft and a little 
creamy. The timing and the preceding indications 
depend on the temperature and climate. Furry, gray 
mold is okay. Just remove it before moving on.77 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings5. When the tofu is ready, on a rimmed plate, mix 
together the salt and the chili flakes (if using). Using a 
gentle touch with a pair of chopsticks, lightly coat each 
tofu cube on all sides. In a 2-cup wide-mouth glass jar 
or bowl with a lid, lay the tofu cubes flat. It’s okay if 
they are stacked.
6. In a measuring cup, combine the water and wine, and 
pour the mixture into the jar. If the tofu cubes are not 
fully submerged, mix more wine and water in the same 
ratio. Seal and refrigerate for at least 4 weeks before 
using. The longer you let it age, the stronger and softer 
it becomes. Try it weekly to see what stage you like it 
best. This will keep indefinitely in the refrigerator.
TRY IT WIT h: Mash fermented tofu together with lime 
juice, sugar, and chile paste for a delectable dipping sauce. 
Or use it to flavor stir-fried water spinach and chiles.78 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMELEMONGRASS CHILE SAUCE
SINGAPORE
Makes:  1 cup  | Prep time:  20 minutes  | Cook time:  40 minutes
2 cups fresh long red chiles, 
like Fresno or red serrano, 
seeded and chopped 
(1/2 pound)
2 lemongrass stalks, bulbs 
only, roughly chopped (see 
the ingredient tip)
3 garlic cloves
1 (1-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and chopped
Pinch coarse sea salt or kosher 
salt, plus 1/4  teaspoon
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup fresh lime juice (from 
1 large lime)
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons fish sauceHainanese chicken rice is a signature hawker dish in 
Singapore. Singapore is famous for its hawker centers, 
where individual stall owners (hawkers) sell food that they 
call hawker dishes. In that famous dish, delicately poached 
chicken is served with flavorful rice cooked in chicken stock 
and a delicious chile-garlic sauce that I could eat straight. 
I have always loved the lemony flavor and fragrance of 
lemongrass, and one day I decided to add some zest to the 
basic chile-garlic sauce recipe. Now I happily drizzle this 
sauce over everything.
1. In a food processor, combine the chiles, lemongrass, 
garlic, and ginger with a pinch of salt and blitz to 
confetti-size bits.
2. In a small nonreactive saucepan, combine the chile 
mixture with the water, lime juice, sugar, and remaining 
1/4 teaspoon of salt. Bring the mixture just to a boil over 
medium-high heat, then adjust the heat and simmer 
for 30 minutes, until the lemongrass and chiles soften.
3. Remove from the heat and add the fish sauce. Serve 
immediately. This sauce keeps in the refrigerator 
for 1 week.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fresh lemongrass is available in the 
produce section of Asian markets and sometimes at 
grocery stores in the specialty foods section. Choose 
lemongrass stalks that are fat, firm, fragrant, and look 
fresh, with no mold or mildew. To use, discard the dry outer 
leaves, then cut off about 1 inch from the root end and 
the fibrous top, leaving the tender middle section, which 
is essentially the bulb. Use only the bulb in this recipe, 
and save the rest to flavor tea or soups (or use in Pickled 
Shallots, page 129).79 Chutneys, Sauces, and SeasoningsMOMO SAUCE
NEPAL
Makes:  1 cup  | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Cook time:  20 minutes
Vegetable oil, for coating 
and drizzling
1/2 pound Roma tomatoes, 
halved (4 or 5 tomatoes)
2 garlic cloves
1 (1/2-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and coarsely chopped
3 or 4 small dried red chiles, 
like chiles de arbol, crushed
1/8 ounce whole blanched or 
roasted almonds (5 almonds)
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
1/2 cup loosely packed 
cilantro leaves
Water, as needed
Salt (optional)Momos are round meat or vegetable dumplings, similar to 
Chinese baozi. They are popular in Nepal, Tibet, and India. 
Unlike Chinese dumplings, which are usually accompanied 
by a soy-vinegar-based dipping sauce, momos are served 
with this piquant tomato-based sauce. The almonds are 
used as a thickener. For a nut-free version, substitute 
1 tablespoon sesame seeds.
1. Preheat the oven to 450°F.
2. Coat a nonreactive baking dish with oil. Place the 
tomatoes cut-side down and drizzle with more oil. 
Roast for 10 minutes. Toss the garlic into the dish with 
the tomatoes and roast for 8 to 10 more minutes, until 
the garlic and tomatoes are browned but not black. 
Remove from the oven and set aside to cool.
3. When the tomatoes and garlic are cool, place them 
in the bowl of a food processor or blender. Add the 
ginger, chiles, almonds, sugar, soy sauce, and lemon 
juice. Pulse until the ginger and almonds have broken 
up into small pieces. Add the cilantro, then blend until 
a smooth sauce forms. Add water as needed to loosen 
the sauce.
4. Pour the sauce into a small bowl. Taste and add salt 
if desired. Serve immediately or refrigerate for up 
to 2 days.
TRY IT WIT h: This sauce is also delicious as a salad 
dressing and as a dip for tortilla chips.80 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEKOREAN RED PEPPER PASTE | GoChuJANG
KOREA
Makes:  10 to 12 cups  | Prep time:  5 minutes, plus 2 hours sitting time  | Cook time:  1 hour 15 minutes  |  
Fermenting time:  2 to 3 months
8 cups water
2 cups barley malt powder
5 cups sweet rice flour 
(glutinous rice flour)
3 cups brown rice syrup
1 cup fermented soy flour
6 cups finely ground Korean 
red pepper powder
3/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher saltKorean red pepper paste, or gochujang, is used extensively 
in Korean cooking. You can find it in huge tubs at the Asian 
market. But as you’ll learn from this recipe, once you have 
the ingredients, it’s not hard to make, and the flavor of the 
fresh stuff is miles better. The hardest parts are finding the 
ingredients and waiting! You can find all of the ingredients at 
a Korea-centric Asian market like H-Mart. Please read the 
labels carefully to make sure you’re buying the right ingre -
dients: barley malt powder (yeotgireum), sweet rice flour 
(also called mochiko or glutinous rice flour; Koda Farms is 
a California-based brand), fermented soy flour (mejugaru), 
and finely ground Korean red pepper powder (gochujaru).
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Heat the water in a large pot until it reaches a 
temperature of about 100°F (just above body 
temperature). Whisk in the barley malt powder until 
smooth, then whisk in the sweet rice flour, 1 cup at 
a time, whisking until all the lumps disappear before 
adding the next cup. Set aside for 2 hours.
3. Return the pot to the stove and cook at medium-low 
heat until reduced by one-third, 1 to 2 hours. Stir often 
to prevent the mixture from sticking to the bottom of 
the pot. Set aside to cool completely.
4. Once the mixture is cool, stir in the rice syrup, 
fermented soy flour, red pepper powder, and salt. 
Mix thoroughly, using the back of a wooden spoon 
to smooth out any lumps, until the mixture is shiny 
and creamy.81 Chutneys, Sauces, and Seasonings5. Scoop the red pepper paste into a gallon-size jar 
or fermenting crock. Cover with cheesecloth and 
secure with a rubber band. Place the lid on the jar or 
crock. Set by a sunny window and ferment at room 
temperature. When it’s sunny, remove the lid to 
expose the paste to some heat and sunshine through 
the cheesecloth. This will help prevent mold from 
forming. If mold does form on the surface, scrape it off, 
then add a teaspoon or two of salt and mix everything 
up. To prevent more mold from forming, you can also 
sprinkle a layer of salt over the top of the paste.
6. Move the jar to a cooler location in the afternoons, out 
of direct sunlight. Ferment for 2 to 3 months. Once the 
gochujang is fermented to your liking, transfer to one 
or more containers with tight-fitting lids and store in 
the refrigerator for up to 1 year.
INGREDIENT TIP: Ground Korean red pepper comes in 
two different grades: fine powder and coarse flakes. In 
terms of flavor, they are similar. Fine powder is used to 
make gochujang and other sauces for a brighter color and 
a smooth texture. Coarse flakes are most often used to 
make kimchi. Korean red pepper comes in bags of at least 
1 pound. Store them in a cool, dry place, away from sunlight.EASY KIMCHI / MAK KIMCHI, PAGE 9083
CHAPTER 4
Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 
Classic Cabbage Kimchi | Baechu Kimchi 86
Green Onion Kimchi | Pa Kimchi 89
Easy Kimchi | Mak Kimchi 90
White Kimchi | Baek Kimchi 92
Broccoli Rabe Kimchi 94
Rice Bran Pickles | Nukazuke 96
Quick Cucumber Kimchi 99
Bitter Greens Kimchi 100
Fermented Yellow Radish | Takuan 102
Salted Rice Koji Pickles | Shio Koji Asazuke 104
Shan Pickles | Mon-Nyin Chin 106
Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage | Suan Cai 108
Sichuan Pickles | Pao Cai 110
Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi | Dongchimi 111
Red Vegetable Kimchi 112
Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut 114
Fermented Eggplant | Ca Phao Muoi 11684 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
PICKLE PASSPORT: KOREA
Must-try pickles: Classic Cabbage Kimchi (page 86),  
Easy Kimchi (page 90), Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi (page 111),  
Sesame Zucchini Threads (page 41), Korean Red Pepper Paste (page 80)
The earliest record of kimchi is in the  Book of Odes , China’s oldest 
poetry collection, written nearly 3,000 years ago, but it is Koreans 
who have always valued strong, complex flavors above the other 
cardinal tastes of sweet, sour, bitter, and salty. Korean food has a 
unique pungency, which is the sharp, tangy flavor found in pickles 
(kimchi) and other condiments, such as soybean paste and chile 
paste. This flavor, the result of controlled fermentation, is distinc -
tive of Korean cuisine.
Korean cuisine is synonymous with kimchi (sometimes spelled 
kimchee). The fiery fermented condiment we know today only 
became widespread during the 18th century, nearly 200 years 
after chile peppers were introduced to Korea. Before chile peppers 
were introduced, the strong flavors of mustard and black pepper 
were popular. Korean pickles were often pickled in a brine steeped 
with Japanese pepper or fennel seeds, but Koreans realized that 
chile peppers helped preserve vegetables and eliminated the use 
of excessive amounts of salt.85 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 
Kimchi plays a very important role in Korean culture. Every fall, 
Koreans gather with friends, family, and neighbors for gimjang 
(or kimjang) to prepare large quantities of kimchi to last through 
the winter. Modern kimchi is typically made with Chinese (napa) 
cabbage, daikon radishes, and green onions, but there are hun -
dreds of variations. Just about any vegetable can be kimchi-fied, 
and the results aren’t always spicy.
A traditional Korean meal wouldn’t be complete without ban -
chan (or panchan). Banchan is the collective name for the assorted 
small side dishes served with rice, soup, and meats. They are 
meant to be shared and finished during the meal. Many different 
dishes can be served as banchan, including kimchi, seasoned 
vegetables, stir-fried vegetables, and savory pancakes.
86 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMECLASSIC CABBAGE KIMCHI | BaECHU KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  45 minutes, plus 2 to 3 hours salting time  | Cook time:  10 minutes  | 
Fermenting time:  8 hours to 2 days
FoR ThE CaBBAGE
3 pounds Chinese (napa) 
cabbage (1 medium cabbage)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt (11/4 ounces)
FoR ThE KIMCHI P aSTE
1 cup water
1 tablespoon sweet rice 
(glutinous rice) flour or 
rice flour
1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
3 tablespoons minced garlic 
(12 cloves)
2 teaspoons minced fresh 
ginger (1/4 ounce)
1/2 cup chopped onion 
(1 small onion)
2 tablespoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons fermented 
salted shrimp (saeujeot) 
with the salty brine, chopped 
(substitute more fish sauce, 
if preferred)
1/4 to 1/2 cup Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on taste
1 cup daikon radish, cut into 
matchsticks (4 ounces)
1/2 cup carrot, cut into 
matchsticks (1 ounce)
11/2 cups green onion, chopped 
into 1-inch pieces (6 stalks)In late fall, Korean households make this traditional cabbage 
kimchi recipe in large quantities for gimjang (or kimjang), 
an annual kimchi-making event in preparation for the cold 
months. Relatives, neighbors, and friends gather for this 
laborious process. In traditional Korean households, cab -
bage kimchi is usually made in large batches (10 to 15 heads 
at a time), but my recipe is for just one head—that’s all I 
can handle eating at a time. If you’d like to make more, just 
double or triple the recipe.
The sweet rice “porridge” helps bind the kimchi paste 
together for easy spreading and is also believed to diminish 
the raw, bitter flavor of dark green vegetables like mustard 
greens or dandelion greens (see Bitter Greens Kimchi, 
page 100). The porridge also serves as food for beneficial 
lactic acid bacteria and hastens the fermenting process. You 
don’t have to use it. Omit it to keep the kimchi “fresh” tasting.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. PREP ThE CaBBAGE : Make a shallow cut (about 
one-third of the way through) lengthwise from the 
base of the cabbage to the leafy top end. Don’t cut 
all the way through. Cutting the cabbage all the way 
through would damage the tender inner leaves. Gently 
pull the cabbage apart into halves, keeping the inner 
leaves intact. You want the leaves loose but still 
attached to the core. Then make similar cuts in each 
cabbage half, but don’t pull them apart yet.
3. Put the cabbage in a large nonreactive bowl. Lift every 
leaf up, one by one, and sprinkle the salt in between 
the leaves, using more salt at the base of the stem near 
the core. Continue until the entire cabbage is covered 
and all the salt is used up.87 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 4. Set the cabbage aside for 2 to 3 hours. Flip every 
30 minutes or so, shuffling the cabbage at the bottom 
of the bowl to the top and vice versa. The cabbage is 
ready when the leaves are soft and bendable.
5. Rinse the cabbage under cold running water to remove 
excess salt. Gently split the halves with your hands 
into quarters along the slits you cut earlier. Drain the 
cabbage in a colander. 
6. MaKE ThE PaSTE: In a medium saucepan over 
medium heat, bring the water to a gentle boil. Add the 
sweet rice flour and cook for 8 to 10 minutes, stirring 
with a wooden spoon or spatula, until it starts to 
thicken into a thin porridge. Remove from the heat and 
stir in the sugar (if using) until it dissolves completely. 
Set aside to cool.
7. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, mix together the cooled porridge, 
garlic, ginger, onion, fish sauce, fermented salted 
shrimp (if using), and red pepper flakes to make the 
kimchi paste. Mix well until the mixture turns into 
a thin paste. Mix in the radish, carrot, and green onion. 
Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired. The paste 
should taste spicy, a little too salty to eat on its own, 
and a little sweet if you like.
8. Take one cabbage quarter and spread kimchi paste 
(1 to 2 tablespoons per cabbage leaf) in between 
the leaves. When every leaf is covered with paste, 
start at the leaf end and roll into a small packet. 
Place the packet into your fermenting vessel. Repeat 
until all the cabbage is done. Rinse your kimchi bowl 
with a little water (about 2 tablespoons) and pour 
continued88 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMECLASSIC CABBAGE KIMCHI | BAECHU KIMCHI  continued
this liquid into the jar. Press down firmly with your 
hands to remove any air bubbles. If the cabbage is 
not completely submerged, add a light brine made 
with 1 cup water and 1 tablespoon salt. Place a weight 
(see page 14 for examples) on top of the vegetables 
to keep them submerged under the brine. Wrap the 
mouth of the vessel with plastic wrap and ferment 
at room temperature away from direct sunlight for 
at least 8 hours. The kimchi will release liquid as it 
ferments, so place the vessel on a plate to catch any 
spills. 
9. Once the kimchi is fermented to your liking, cover 
the vessel and store in the refrigerator. (I keep the 
plastic wrap on to prevent smells from leaking out.) 
It will continue to ferment slowly and will keep in the 
refrigerator for months.
PREP TIP:  Chop the garlic, ginger, and onion in a food 
processor. Then mix in the fish sauce, fermented shrimp, 
red pepper, and porridge.
DoN’T FoRGET:  Always wear food-safe gloves when 
handling the red pepper flakes. The gloves will prevent chili 
burn and also keep you from hurting yourself if you rub 
your eyes.
FERMENTING TIP: When you’ve finished packing the 
kimchi into the fermenting vessel, ferment at room 
temperature for at least 8 hours in summer, 12 hours in 
winter. For me, kimchi tastes best when fermented for at 
least 24 hours if warm, 48 hours if cold. The best thing to 
do is taste every day to determine when the kimchi tastes 
most pleasing to you. Store in the refrigerator, and the 
kimchi will continue to ferment and turn sour.89 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables GREEN ONION KIMCHI | Pa KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep time:  15 minutes  | Fermenting time:  2 hours to 3 days
1 pound green onions
1 tablespoon minced garlic
2 teaspoons minced 
fresh ginger
1/4 cup fish sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
2 to 4 tablespoons Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on tasteCalling all allium fans, this kimchi is for you. In this recipe, 
green onions, also called scallions or spring onions, are the 
stars. If the onion-y flavor is too much for you, tone it down 
by adding a cup of shredded carrots for sweetness, or heat it 
up by tossing in some chopped fresh red chiles.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. Cut off the roots of the green onions and any tough or 
brown outer leaves.
3. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, mix together the garlic, ginger, fish 
sauce, sugar, and red pepper flakes to make the kimchi 
paste. Add a little water if the paste is too dry. Taste 
and adjust the seasonings if desired. The paste should 
taste spicy, a little too salty to eat on its own, and a 
little sweet if you like.
4. Toss the green onions with the kimchi paste until well 
coated. Grab a couple of stalks and fold them into a 
bundle. Pack the bundle into a pint-size jar and repeat 
until all the green onions have been folded and packed 
into the jar. 
5. Ferment at room temperature away from direct 
sunlight for 2 hours, or up to 3 days. Once the kimchi 
is fermented to your liking, store it in the refrigerator. 
It will keep for 1 month.
6. To serve, run a knife or kitchen scissors through the 
folded bundles a few times.
SWITCh IT uP:  Any allium with green leafy tops would 
work in this kimchi: ramps, chives, or garlic chives. Try 
mixing and matching.90 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEEASY KIMCHI | MaK KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  11/2 pints  | Prep time:  20 minutes, plus 2 to 3 hours salting time  | Fermenting time:  8 hours
3 pounds Chinese (napa) 
cabbage (1 medium cabbage)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt
2 tablespoons minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced 
fresh ginger
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1 teaspoon sugar, or to taste
1/4 to 1/2 cup Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on taste
1 cup green onion, cut into 
1-inch pieces (4 stalks)The Korean word mak means “carelessly” or “roughly.” I 
wouldn’t say this is a careless recipe per se, but I would say 
that it is an easier recipe than the traditional one and is my 
preferred way of making kimchi. Cutting the cabbage first 
makes it easier to handle, and this recipe does away with 
the use of the porridge. Most important, this version is just 
as tasty.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Halve the cabbage and cut a “V” notch at the base 
to remove the core. Cut into bite-size pieces. Put the 
cabbage in a large nonreactive bowl and sprinkle with 
the salt. Massage the salt into the cabbage and set 
aside for 2 to 3 hours, tossing every 30 minutes or so. 
The cabbage is ready when it has shrunk and is soft 
and bendable.
3. Rinse the cabbage under cold running water to remove 
any excess salt, and drain in a colander.
4. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, mix together the garlic, ginger, fish 
sauce, sugar, and red pepper flakes to make the kimchi 
paste. Add a little water if the paste is too dry. Add the 
green onions.
5. Toss the cabbage with the kimchi paste until well 
coated. Taste and adjust the seasonings if desired. The 
paste should taste spicy, a little too salty to eat on its 
own, and a little sweet if you like.91 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 6. Pack the cabbage into a quart-size jar, leaving 2 inches 
of headspace. Rinse the bowl with a little water 
(about 2 tablespoons) and pour this liquid into the jar. 
Push down firmly with your hands to remove any air 
bubbles. Place a weight (see page 14 for examples) on 
top of the vegetables to keep them submerged under 
the brine. Wrap the mouth of the jar with plastic wrap 
and ferment at room temperature away from direct 
sunlight for at least 8 hours. The kimchi will release 
liquid as it ferments, so place the jar on a plate to catch 
any spills.
7. Once the kimchi is fermented to your liking, cap the jar 
and store in the refrigerator. (I keep the plastic wrap 
on to prevent smells from leaking out.) It will continue 
to ferment slowly and will keep in the refrigerator 
for months.
SWITCh IT uP:  Make this kimchi vegetarian. Just take out 
the fish sauce and use soy sauce or miso paste in its place. 
If you have both, you can use a mix of red pepper powder 
and coarser flakes to make kimchi.92 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEWHITE KIMCHI | BaEK KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  30 minutes, plus 2 to 3 hours salting time  |  
Fermenting time:  12 to 24 hours | Curing time:  3 days
FoR ThE CaBBAGE
3 pounds Chinese (napa) 
cabbage (1 medium cabbage)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt (11/4 ounces) 
FoR ThE BRINE
4 cups water
2 teaspoons coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 teaspoon sugar (optional)
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon minced 
fresh ginger
FoR ThE KIMCHI FILLING
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon fish sauce
2 cups daikon radish, peeled 
and cut into matchsticks 
(4 ounces)
1 cup carrot, cut into 
matchsticks (2 ounces)
1 cup pear or apple, cut into 
matchsticks (2 ounces)
1 cup green onion, cut into 
1-inch pieces, white and pale 
green parts only (6 stalks)
1/4 cup sliced red bell pepper 
(1 ounce)
4 pitted dried red dates, thinly 
sliced, or 2 tablespoons goji 
berries (optional)
1 tablespoon pine nuts  
(optional)Not all kimchi has to be spicy. White kimchi is a variation 
on kimchi that’s made without red pepper flakes. But that 
doesn’t mean it’s not still full of flavor. It has a mild, refresh -
ing taste that’s child friendly and appealing to adults who 
are spice-averse. This kimchi doesn't keep as long as other 
varieties, so eat it within a few weeks.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. PREP ThE CaBBAGE : Make a shallow cut (about 
one-third of the way through) lengthwise from the 
base of the cabbage to the leafy top end. Don’t cut 
all the way through. Cutting the cabbage all the way 
through would damage the tender inner leaves. Gently 
pull the cabbage apart into halves, keeping the inner 
leaves intact. You want the leaves loose but still 
attached to the core. Then make similar cuts for each 
half, but don’t pull them apart yet.
3. Place the cabbage in a large nonreactive bowl. Lift 
every leaf up, one by one, and sprinkle the salt in 
between the leaves, using more salt at the base of the 
stem near the core. Continue until the entire cabbage 
is covered and all the salt is used up. Place a heavy 
plate on top of the cabbage to weigh it down.
4. Set the cabbage aside for 2 to 3 hours. Flip every 
30 minutes or so, shuffling the cabbage at the bottom 
of the bowl to the top and vice versa. The cabbage is 
ready when the leaves are soft and bendable.
5. Rinse the cabbage under cold running water to remove 
any excess salt. Gently split the halves into quarters 
with your fingers along the slits you cut earlier. Drain 
the cabbage in a colander.93 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 6. MaKE ThE BRINE : In a large nonreactive bowl, stir 
together the water, salt, sugar (if using), garlic, and 
ginger, until the salt and sugar dissolve completely.
7. MaKE ThE FILLING : In another bowl, mix together the 
sugar, fish sauce, daikon, carrot, pear, green onion, bell 
pepper, red dates (if using), and pine nuts (if using).
8. Take one cabbage quarter and spread the filling (1 to 
2 tablespoons per cabbage leaf) in between the leaves. 
When every leaf is covered with filling, place the filled 
cabbage quarter into the bowl with the brine. Repeat 
with the remaining cabbage and kimchi filling, and 
arrange the filled cabbage quarters in the bowl as 
snugly as possible.
9. Place a heavy plate on top of the cabbage to keep 
it submerged under the brine, and ferment at room 
temperature away from direct sunlight for 12 hours in 
summer or 24 hours in winter. Remove the plate, cover, 
and store in the refrigerator with the brine for up to 
3 weeks.
10. White kimchi tastes best after at least 3 days in the 
refrigerator. To serve, remove a cabbage quarter, 
allowing excess brine to drip back into the container. 
Cut crosswise into 2-inch pieces and serve with a few 
scoops of brine.94 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEBROCCOLI RABE KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep time:  15 minutes, plus 30 minutes salting time  | Fermenting time:  24 hours
10 ounces broccoli rabe, cut 
into 1-inch pieces (1 bunch)
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
1 tablespoon minced garlic
2 teaspoons minced 
fresh ginger
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1/4 to 1/2 cup Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on taste
4 green onions, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1/2 cup chopped red bell 
pepper (1 small pepper)Salting vegetables has a twofold purpose: First, it acts 
as a preservative and draws water out, tenderizing the 
ingredients in the process. Additionally, the vegetables 
become porous, allowing the spices to infuse into them 
thoroughly—so don’t skip this process!
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. In a large nonreactive bowl, toss the rabe with the salt 
and sugar (if using). Set aside for 30 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in another large nonreactive bowl and 
wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, mix together the 
garlic, ginger, fish sauce, and Korean red pepper flakes 
to make the kimchi paste. Add a little water if the paste 
is too dry. Add the green onions and bell pepper. Taste 
and adjust the seasonings if desired. The paste should 
taste spicy, a little too salty to eat on its own, and a 
little sweet if you like.
4. Rinse the rabe under cold running water and drain in a 
colander. Toss the rabe with the kimchi paste until well 
coated. The kimchi is ready to eat immediately but will 
taste even better after fermentation.
5. To ferment, pack the rabe into a pint-size jar, leaving 
2 inches of headspace. Rinse the bowl with a little 
water (2 tablespoons) and pour this liquid into the jar. 
Push down firmly with your hands to remove any air 
bubbles. Place a weight (see page 14 for options) on 
top of the vegetables to keep them submerged under 
the brine. Wrap the mouth of the jar with plastic wrap 95 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables and ferment at room temperature away from direct 
sunlight for 24 hours. The kimchi will release liquid 
as it ferments, so place the jar on a plate to catch 
any spills.
6. Once the kimchi is fermented to your liking, cap the jar 
and store in the refrigerator. (I keep the plastic wrap on 
to prevent smells from leaking out.) It will continue to 
ferment slowly and will keep in the refrigerator for up 
to 1 month.96 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMERICE BRAN PICKLES | NUKaZUKE
JAPAN
Makes:  4 cups rice bran mixture for the pickling bed (enough for pickling almost indefinitely)  |  
Prep time:  55 minutes  | Cook time:  5 minutes  | Bed Curing time:  21/2 weeks  |  
Vegetable Pickling time:  6 to 12 hours
FoR ThE PICKLING BED
4 cups rice bran
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
12/3 cups water
1 (1-inch) square piece of 
kombu, cut into strips
2 dried shiitake mushroom 
stems or 1 small broken cap
1 garlic clove
1 (1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
cut into 2 or 3 slices
1 or 2 dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol, halved
1/2 cup veggie scraps, like 
daikon peels, ginger peels, 
turnip tops, or small chunks 
of vegetables (just no onions 
or potatoes)
FoR ThE PICKLES
2 small carrots, peeled and 
halved lengthwise
OR
2 small cucumbers (or other 
watery vegetables like celery), 
peeled, halved, rubbed with 
salt, rinsed, and dried
OR
6 baby turnips (like hakurei), 
peeled and halved
OR
8 small red radishes, wholeRice bran pickling is a quintessential Japanese pickling 
method. Many Japanese households have a rice bran 
pickling bed (nukadoko) that they have been tending for a 
long time.
The first step in making rice bran pickles is to establish a 
live and active nukadoko. The three essential ingredients are 
bran, salt, and water. Additionally, you can add a variety of 
ingredients to amp up the flavor: garlic, ginger, kombu (dried 
seaweed), dried mushrooms. Adding fruit like dried apples 
or persimmon peels will add sweetness.
Next, the pickling bed has to be primed with starter 
vegetables. These can range from kitchen scraps to small 
chunks of vegetables like daikon or cucumber. The bacteria 
that live on the vegetable skins will help promote the growth 
of live (plant-generated) lactobacilli. Once your pickling bed 
has reached maturity, you can make probiotic-rich pickles 
in hours. Remember, the pickling bed must be stirred and 
mixed daily.
Depending on how long they are pickled and on the 
aromatics added to the pickling bed, rice bran pickles will 
taste anywhere from pleasantly tangy to sour and/or salty.
My recipe uses a smaller amount of rice bran suited for 
a small bed (I use a 6-by-10-by-4-inch ceramic container). 
Feel free to double the recipe for a larger nukadoko.
1. MaKE ThE PICKLING BED:  In a large skillet, spread 
the rice bran in a thin, even layer and dry roast over 
low heat. You’ll have to do this in batches and repeat 
the process several times depending on the size of 
your pan. (I used a 10-inch cast-iron skillet and roasted 
1 cup at a time.)97 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 2. Stir the rice bran occasionally with a wooden spoon 
and jiggle the pan to keep the bran moving. After 1 to 
2 minutes, the bran should start to darken. Dry roast 
for 2 to 3 minutes more, until the bran is heated 
through and smells slightly nutty. Watch carefully so 
it doesn’t burn. Pour into a large mixing bowl. Repeat 
until all the bran has been roasted. When the bran is 
completely cool, it should feel dry and powdery. (If you 
can find roasted rice bran, you can skip this step.)
3. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
4. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, 
combine the salt and water and stir until the salt 
dissolves completely. Remove from the heat and set 
aside to cool to room temperature.
5. Add the brine to the roasted bran gradually, mixing 
with clean hands in between pours. Stop adding 
water when it forms a paste that feels like damp sand 
suitable for making sandcastles.
6. Pack half the bran mixture into your choice of pickle 
pot or container (see the prep tip for options). Scatter 
the kombu, mushroom, garlic, ginger, and chiles over 
and bury with the remaining bran mixture.
7. Cover the pickling bed loosely with several layers of 
cheesecloth or a kitchen towel, to allow airflow but 
keep out insects and debris. Keep the pickling bed at 
room temperature away from direct sunlight.
8. For the next 3 days, dig to the bottom of the container 
and flip and stir the paste with clean hands. Do this 
at least once a day, preferably two or three times, 
especially during the warmer months.
9. Now it’s time to prime your pickling bed. Bury 
the vegetable scraps by pushing them deeply 
into the paste. Cover them completely by scraping 
the surrounding paste over them. If the scraps are 
small, tie them up in cheesecloth so they don’t get lost.
continued98 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMERICE BRAN PICKLES | NUKAZUKE  continued
10. The next day, remove the scraps, scrape off as much 
bran as you can back into the container, and discard 
the scraps.
11. Repeat this process of burying and discarding the 
vegetable scraps daily, for at least 2 weeks. Flip and stir 
the paste before burying a new batch of scraps. Pack 
down the pickling bed so that it has a smooth surface, 
and wipe down the sides.
12. MaKE ThE PICKLES:  After 2 weeks, the pickling bed 
will have a pleasant, earthy smell and should be ready 
for pickling. Bury the vegetable pieces in the paste and 
leave them overnight. If they are still very salty the next 
day, pickle them for 1 to 2 more days.
13. Scrape as much bran as you can back into the pot and 
rinse the vegetables before eating.
14. When the pickle bed reaches maturity, vegetables are 
ready in 8 to 12 hours in the cooler months and 6 hours 
or less when it’s hot outside (80°F and above).
15. Stir the pickling bed daily, whether or not you’re 
pickling vegetables. If you can’t do this daily, stir the 
pickling bed thoroughly, cover tightly, and store in the 
refrigerator until ready to resume.
PREP TIP:  Nonreactive glass, enamel-lined metal, or glazed 
ceramic containers make the best pickle pots. If possible, 
choose a rectangular container, 5 to 6 inches long and 2 to 
3 inches deep. This makes it easier to stir the bran without 
spilling. A tight-fitting lid is helpful, but if you don’t have 
one, use a double layer of plastic wrap and aluminum foil.99 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables QUICK CUCUMBER KIMCHI
KOREAN
Makes:  2 cups  | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 30 minutes salting time  | Curing time:  12 to 24 hours
8 ounces Persian cucumbers 
or other small, crisp 
cucumbers, cut into 
1/8-inch-thick coins (3 to 
4 cucumbers)
2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 teaspoons minced garlic 
(2 cloves)
2 teaspoons grated fresh 
ginger (3/4-inch piece)
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 teaspoon fish sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon Korean red pepper 
powder or flakes
1 teaspoon store-bought (see 
ingredient tip) or homemade 
Korean Red Pepper Paste 
(page 80)
2 tablespoons finely chopped 
green onions
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 teaspoon toasted sesame 
seeds, for garnishTraditional kimchi doesn’t usually use Korean red pepper 
paste as one of its ingredients, but I add it to this quickie 
cucumber kimchi. I make this kimchi in small portions. 
Because it’s so easy and quick, it can be made fresh 
on demand.
1. Toss the cucumbers with the salt in a colander. Set 
aside in the sink for 30 minutes.
2. Rinse the cucumbers under cold running water and 
drain them in the colander.
3. In a medium nonreactive bowl, mix together the 
garlic, ginger, vinegar, fish sauce, sugar, red pepper 
powder, red pepper paste, and green onions. Toss the 
cucumbers with the mixture until evenly coated. Cover 
and refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours before serving. Just 
before serving, drizzle with the sesame oil and sprinkle 
with the sesame seeds.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you don’t want to make your own, 
Korean red pepper paste (gochujang) is available in 
tubs at Asian markets. Look for a brand that doesn’t use 
flavor enhancers (like MSG) or artificial coloring. If you’re 
gluten-free, read the label carefully. Some brands contain 
wheat and gluten, while others don’t.100 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEBITTER GREENS KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  20 minutes, plus 8 to 12 hours salting time  |  
Fermenting time:  2 to 6 days
FoR ThE GREENS
11/2 to 2 pounds bitter greens, 
like mustard, dandelion, or 
kale (3 bunches)
3 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
3 cups warm water
FoR ThE KIMCHI P aSTE
1/2 cup water
2 teaspoons sweet rice or 
rice flour
2 teaspoons sugar, or to 
taste (optional)
1 tablespoon minced garlic 
(3 cloves)
2 teaspoons minced fresh 
ginger (1/4 ounce)
1 tablespoon fish sauce
4 to 6 tablespoons Korean red 
pepper flakes, depending 
on taste
1 cup shredded carrot 
(2 ounces)
1/2 cup sliced onion 
(1 small onion)Salting or brining the vegetables before mixing with the 
kimchi paste helps preserve the vegetables and allows the 
kimchi paste to penetrate the vegetables. Which method 
you use is a matter of preference, but in general brining is 
better for vegetables with a lower water content.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. PREP ThE GREENS : Trim any woody, fibrous, or 
browned stems and cut the greens into 1-inch pieces. 
In a large nonreactive bowl, mix together the salt and 
water until the salt dissolves completely. Add the 
greens and weigh them down with a heavy plate. They 
won’t be entirely submerged, but they will eventually 
shrink. Soak for 8 to 12 hours, until wilted.
3. Drain the greens and rinse under cold running water. 
Drain in a colander while you prepare the kimchi paste.
4. PREP ThE PaSTE: In a small heatproof bowl, mix 
together the water and sweet rice flour. Microwave 
on high for 20 seconds. Stir to remove any lumps. 
Microwave for 20 more seconds and stir until the 
mixture thickens. Stir in the sugar (if using) until it 
dissolves completely.
5. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, mix together the rice porridge, garlic, 
ginger, fish sauce, and red pepper flakes to make the 
kimchi paste. Add the carrot and onion. Taste and 
adjust the seasonings if desired. The paste should taste 
spicy, a little too salty to eat on its own, and a little 
sweet if you like.101 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 6. Toss the greens with the kimchi paste until they are 
evenly coated. Pack the greens tightly into 2 pint-size 
jars, leaving 2 inches of headspace. Rinse the bowl with 
a little water (2 tablespoons) and pour this liquid into 
the jars. Push down firmly with your hands to remove 
any air bubbles. Place a weight (see page 14  
for options) on top of the vegetables to keep them 
submerged under the brine. 
7. Wrap the mouth of each jar with plastic wrap and 
ferment at room temperature away from direct 
sunlight for 2 to 6 days. The greens will be quite bitter 
at first, but allow them to ferment for a few days and 
the bitterness will mellow. The kimchi will release 
liquid as it ferments, so place the jars on plates to 
catch any spills.
8. Once the kimchi is fermented to your liking, remove 
the weights, cap the jars, and store in the refrigerator. 
(I keep the plastic wrap on to prevent smells from 
leaking out.) The kimchi will continue to ferment slowly 
and will keep for up to 1 month.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Sweet rice flour is also known by its 
Japanese name, mochiko or mochi flour. You can find 
it at Asian markets, and the Koda brand is sold in the 
international aisle of many supermarkets. If you can’t find 
sweet rice flour, you can use rice flour or all-purpose flour 
as well.102 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEFERMENTED YELLOW RADISH | TaKUAN
JAPANESE
Makes:  2 quarts  | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes, plus 2 hours drying time, plus 24 hours  
salting time  | Fermenting time:  8 to 14 days
2 to 21/2 pounds daikon radish 
(3 large daikon radishes)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
3 teaspoons ground turmeric
3 tablespoons sugarTakuan is one of the most popular Japanese pickles. It is 
commonly found in bento boxes as garnish or rolled into 
sushi. The original process for making takuan takes several 
months. The first step is to dry the daikon radish for several 
weeks until it is dehydrated and pliable. The daikon is then 
salted and fermented for months. To shorten the process, 
I oven-dry the daikon and ferment it for about 10 days. 
Takuan is traditionally colored with persimmon oranges. To 
get the same golden hue of authentic takuan, or at least a 
close approximation, I use turmeric.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water. 
Preheat the oven to 200°F.
2. Peel the daikon and cut it into ¹/8-inch-thick full and/or 
half-moons. Use a mandoline if you have one. Arrange 
the slices in one layer on two large baking sheets and 
oven-dry for about 2 hours, until soft and bendable.
3. Wearing food-safe gloves, in a large mixing bowl, toss 
the daikon, salt, turmeric, and sugar and massage until 
liquid releases from the daikon slices.
4. Cover the bowl with a large sheet of plastic wrap. Press 
down firmly on top of the sliced daikon, removing 
as much air as possible. Place a weight on top of the 
daikon (I use a heavy plate), cover with a kitchen towel, 
and set aside at room temperature for 24 hours.
5. Pack the daikon into a half-gallon jar and pour all the 
juices from the bowl into the jar. Press down firmly 
using your fingers or a wooden spoon to remove any 
air pockets and to allow the juices to rise up. If the 
daikon is not submerged, pour in some water, leaving 103 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables at least 2 inches of headspace. Place a weight (see 
page 14 for options) on top of the daikon to keep it 
submerged under the brine. Place the jar on a plate to 
catch any spills.
6. Cap the jar loosely and ferment at room temperature 
away from direct sunlight for 8 to 14 days. Burp daily 
for the first few days to release pressure from the 
carbon dioxide that forms.
7. After 5 days, start tasting the takuan every day. Once 
the takuan is fermented to your liking, cap the jar 
tightly and store in the refrigerator. It will continue to 
ferment slowly and will keep for 6 months.
INGREDIENT TIP: You can cut the daikon any way you like: 
long flat cuts for sandwiches, thin rounds for eating with 
your fingers, or long sticks (1/4- to 1/2-inch width/height and 
about 6 inches long) for sushi rolls. You may have to adjust 
the oven-drying time.104 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALTED RICE KOJI PICKLES | ShIo KoJI ASAZ uKE
JAPAN
Makes:  11/2 cups or 1 pound of shio koji (enough for about 10 pounds of pickles)  |  
Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 2 to 3 hours mixing time  | Shio Koji Fermenting time:  1 to 2 weeks  |  
Vegetable Fermenting time:  20 minutes to 24 hours
FoR ThE PICKLING 
MEDIuM
11/3 cups water
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 (7-ounce) package prepared 
rice koji
FoR ThE PICKLES
1 pound of any of the 
following vegetables:
Carrots, peeled and cut on 
the diagonal
Daikon radish, peeled and cut 
into sticks
Bell peppers, seeded 
and quartered
Green beans, trimmed
Broccoli, cut into floretsShio koji, or salt koji, is a pickling medium made by salting 
and soaking rice koji, which is cooked rice that has been 
inoculated with koji, a naturally occurring culture that’s 
everywhere in Japan. The final product looks like rice 
porridge. Foods like soy sauce, miso, and mirin are also 
fermented using koji. The enzymes in koji break down 
proteins into amino acids that turn into glutamate, or what 
we know as umami. You can buy ready-made shio koji, but it 
is usually heat-treated, which negates its beneficial probiotic 
properties. In this recipe, I show you how to make shio koji 
from rice koji, which is sold at Japanese markets and online.
Once the shio koji is fermented, you’re ready to pickle 
vegetables. The general rule for how much shio koji you 
need to ferment vegetables is 1:10, or 10 percent of the 
weight of your vegetables. This recipe makes 1 pound of 
shio koji, which can pickle about 10 pounds of vegetables. I 
usually use whatever I need to cover the vegetables, keeping 
in mind that it’s quite salty. Keep experimenting and you’ll 
find the optimum pickling time and amounts.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. MaKE ThE PICKLING  MEDIuM: In a large glass 
measuring cup or heatproof bowl, bring the water to 
a boil in the microwave (it will take 2 to 3 minutes, 
depending on your microwave), or use a medium 
saucepan on the stove top. Stir the salt into the water 
until it dissolves completely. Set aside to cool to 140°F.
3. Meanwhile, wash your hands thoroughly. Break up the 
koji with your fingers, add it to the water at 140°F, and 
mix well. Mix every so often for the next 2 to 3 hours.105 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 4. Transfer the mixture to a quart-size or larger container 
with a tight-fitting lid. You want to be able to stir the 
shio koji without spilling it. Cover and ferment at room 
temperature away from direct sunlight.
5. Mix the shio koji once a day for at least 1 week 
(summer) and up to to 2 weeks (winter). You may need 
to add water on the second day if all the water has 
been absorbed. Just add enough to cover.
6. Taste the shio koji now and then; it should be sweet 
and salty with a pleasant smell. It will be too salty at 
the beginning, but fermentation will sweeten it. Once 
you taste this sweetness, store the shio koji in the 
refrigerator. Shio koji will keep in the refrigerator for 
6 to 10 months.
7. MaKE ThE PICKLES : When you’re ready to pickle, 
peel and cut 1 pound of vegetables into bite-size pieces 
with the largest surface area possible. For example, cut 
carrots and cucumbers into diagonal pieces. Blanch 
vegetables you don’t normally eat raw, like green 
beans or asparagus. Salt vegetables with a high water 
content, like daikon, to remove moisture.
8. Put the cut vegetables in a shallow dish with a lid (you 
can use plastic wrap) or a zip-top bag. Add about 
1/4 cup (1.6 ounces) shio koji and massage into the 
vegetables. Ferment in the refrigerator for 20 minutes 
or up to 24 hours. Softer vegetables like cucumbers 
and bell peppers will be quick (20 minutes), and green 
beans will need 2 to 3 hours, while carrots and turnips 
may take 1 day or even longer. Taste every so often to 
see how you like the pickles.
9. Rinse the shio koji off of the vegetables before 
eating. Once pickled, they will keep for 1 or 2 days in 
the refrigerator.106 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESHAN PICKLES | MoN-NYIN Ch IN
MYANMAR
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep time:  20 minutes, plus 10 to 15 minutes sitting time  | Fermenting time:  3 days
1/2 pound bitter greens like 
bok choy, Swiss chard, or 
mustard cabbage
3 cups carrots, sliced 
thin on the diagonal 
(3 medium carrots)
1/2 cup small shallots or 
pickling red onions, peeled 
(1/4 pound)
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 tablespoon paprika
2 teaspoons dried chili flakes, 
or to taste
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 cup lager or any other 
light beerThis is a popular Burmese pickle traditionally made by the 
Shan people, hence its name. It literally means “sour mus -
tard greens” but generally refers to all kinds of pickles. The 
classic Shan pickle is composed of mustard greens, carrots, 
leek bulbs, garlic chive roots, and/or Chinese artichokes. 
Other commonly used vegetables include elephant garlic, 
radish stems, cabbage, cauliflower, bean sprouts, green 
mango, and bamboo shoots. But don’t worry, I’m not going 
to make you hunt down obscure vegetables. Here, I have 
adapted a recipe I found in Under the Golden Pagoda: The Best 
of Burmese Cooking by Aung Aung Taik. I believe the beer 
must be a substitute for rice wine, which was hard to come 
by in the United States at the time. I think it gives the pickle 
a distinct flavor, but feel free to substitute 1/4 cup Chinese 
rice wine plus 3/4 cup water.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. Bring a large kettle of water to a boil.
3. Rinse the greens leaf by leaf to remove any dirt, 
especially near the bottom of the stems. Put them in a 
large heatproof bowl and pour in boiling water to cover. 
Set aside for 10 to 15 minutes, until wilted. Drain the 
greens in a colander and dry with kitchen towels. Cut 
them into 1/4-inch-wide pieces.
4. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, toss together the greens, carrots, 
shallots, salt, sugar, paprika, chili flakes, and turmeric. 
Massage for 10 minutes to infuse the spices into the 
vegetables. Pour in the beer and mix again. Taste and 
adjust the seasonings if desired.107 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 5. Place a heavy plate or other weight (see page 14 for 
options) on top of the vegetables to keep them 
submerged under the brine. Cover the bowl with 
plastic wrap and ferment at room temperature away 
from direct sunlight for at least 3 days. Once the pickle 
is fermented to your liking, pack into a pint-size jar, 
pushing down to remove any air bubbles. Cap the jar 
and store in the refrigerator. It will continue to ferment 
slowly and will keep for 1 to 2 months.108 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALT-PICKLED MUSTARD CABBAGE | SUAN C aI
CHINA/TAIWAN
Makes:  2 quarts  | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 1 to 2 hours salting time  |  
Fermenting time:  5 to 10 days
11/2 to 2 pounds Chinese 
mustard cabbage, trimmed 
and halved (1 large cabbage)
1/4 cup coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt, plus 
2 tablespoons
4 cups waterPickled mustard cabbage is a staple in Chinese-influenced 
cuisine. I love the dish for its pucker power and its crunchy 
stems. Called suan cai (literally sour vegetable), zha cai, or 
kiam chye, this popular condiment accompanies Taiwanese 
beef noodles and Thai red curry chicken noodles (khao 
soi). You can buy them at the Asian market, but ever 
since I started to ferment my own, I’ve never gone back 
to store-bought. Pick a mature cabbage with not as much 
water content.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. In a large nonreactive bowl, sprinkle the cabbage 
with 2 tablespoons of salt. Massage the salt into the 
cabbage, making sure to get in between the stems 
and leaves, especially near the core. Set aside for 1 to 
2 hours at room temperature, massaging and tossing 
every once in a while. When the leaves are wilted, rinse 
the cabbage under cold running water to remove any 
excess salt and dirt. Shake and drain in a colander.
3. Meanwhile, combine the remaining 1/4 cup of salt and 
the water in a medium saucepan over medium-high  
heat. Bring to a boil and stir until the salt dissolves  
completely.
4. Cut the cabbage into large pieces if desired and pack 
into a 2-quart jar. Pour in the brine, leaving 2 inches of 
headspace. Place a weight (see page 14 for options) 
on top of the cabbage to keep it submerged under the 
brine. Place the jar on a small plate to catch any spills.109 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 5. Cap the jar loosely and ferment at room temperature 
away from direct sunlight for 5 days (in summer) to 
10 days (in winter), until salty and slightly sour. The 
cabbage will turn a bright yellowish green. Burp daily 
for the first few days to release pressure from the 
carbon dioxide that forms.
6. Taste the cabbage every few days. Once the cabbage 
is fermented to your liking, store it in the refrigerator. 
It will continue to ferment slowly and will keep for 
6 months.
SWITCh IT uP:  Pickle bok choy or Chinese (napa) cabbage 
using this same method for a different taste and texture.110 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESICHUAN PICKLE S | Pao CaI
CHINA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes  | Fermenting time:  1 day to 1 month
3 cups water
3 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt
1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons Chinese cooking 
wine or dry sherry (gin or 
vodka work, too)
11/2 pounds assorted 
vegetables, such as 
cabbage, radish, carrot, 
celery, cauliflower, fresh 
chile peppers, etc., cut into 
bite-size pieces
2 garlic cloves, smashed
1 (1-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and cut into 3 or 
4 slices
1 star anise pod (optional)
1 teaspoon Sichuan 
peppercorns (optional)
1/2 teaspoon fennel 
seeds (optional)
2 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol (optional)Pickled vegetables are essential to Sichuanese cookery. 
Many households have a pao cai tan zi, a rough earthenware 
pot housing a stash of pickles in a pool of brine. New 
vegetables are added every few days, but the pickling brine, 
or the “mother liquor,” is used indefinitely. 
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Bring the water to a boil in a medium saucepan, 
then add the salt and sugar. Stir until they dissolve 
completely. Set aside to cool to room temperature 
and add the Chinese wine. Taste the brine and adjust 
the seasonings if desired.
3. Pack the assorted vegetables into a quart-size jar. 
Slip in the garlic, ginger, and any or all of the optional 
ingredients: star anise, Sichuan peppercorns, fennel 
seeds, and dried chiles.
4. Pour in the brine, leaving 1 inch of headspace. You may 
not use all of it. Place a weight on top of the vegetables 
(see page 14 for options) to keep them submerged 
under the brine. Cap the jar loosely and ferment at 
room temperature away from direct sunlight for up to 
1 month. Set the jar on a plate to catch any spills. Burp 
daily for the first few days to release pressure from the 
carbon dioxide that forms.
5. Start tasting after 1 day (summer) or 2 days (winter). 
Once the vegetables are fermented to your liking, store 
in the refrigerator. The pickles will continue to ferment 
slowly and will keep for 6 months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  To reuse the pickling brine, add 
2 teaspoons of salt and a splash of Chinese wine to the 
brine every time you add new vegetables. Replace the 
spices every month or so.111 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables DAIKON AND JICAMA WATER KIMCHI | DoNGChIMI
KOREA
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep and Cook time:  30 minutes, plus 24 hours salting time  |  
Fermenting time:  1 to 2 days
1/2 pound daikon radish, peeled 
and cut into 1-inch cubes
1/2 pound jicama, peeled and 
cut into 1-inch cubes
2 tablespoons coarse sea salt 
or kosher salt, divided
1 tablespoon sugar, plus 
2 teaspoons
3 cups water
2 garlic cloves, smashed 
and peeled
1 (1/2-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
cut into 3 or 4 slices
4 green onions, cut into 
2-inch piecesDongchimi is a refreshing summer kimchi that’s popular as 
a side dish or cold soup. It’s not what most non-Koreans 
expect from a typical kimchi. It is traditionally prepared with 
just daikon radish, but I’ve paired the daikon with sweet 
jicama in this version. Tart rather than spicy, dongchimi falls 
under the “white” or “water” kimchi (mul kimchi) category. 
This pickle is very easy to make and requires only a brief 
fermentation period.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Toss the daikon and jicama with 1 tablespoon salt and 
2 teaspoons of sugar. Cover and set aside for 24 hours 
at room temperature.
3. Rinse the daikon and jicama under cold running water 
and drain in a colander.
4. Combine the remaining 1 tablespoon salt, the 
remaining 1 tablespoon sugar, and the water in a small 
saucepan over medium heat. Bring to a boil and stir 
until the salt and sugar dissolve completely. Set aside 
to cool.
5. In a quart-size jar, combine the daikon, jicama, garlic, 
ginger, and green onions. Cover and ferment for 1 to 
2 days at room temperature, until the broth tastes 
a little vinegary. Pour the cooled brine over the 
vegetables. Then store it in the refrigerator, where it 
will keep for up to 1 week.
TRY IT WIT h: You can also serve this dish without 
fermenting. To mimic the tart fermented flavor, add 
3 tablespoons of vinegar before serving. To serve, ladle 
the vegetables and a few scoops of broth into a cup or 
small bowl.112 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMERED VEGETABLE KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  1 pint  | Prep time:  20 minutes, plus 12 to 24 hours salting time  | Fermenting time:  3 to 10 days
1/2 pound beets, any variety 
(2 medium beets)
4 cups water
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/2 pound red cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch squares 
(1/2 small cabbage)
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon minced 
fresh ginger
1 tablespoon fish sauce
2 teaspoons sugar (optional)
1/4 to 1/2 cup Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on taste
4 green onions, cut into 
1-inch piecesI love beets: red beets, golden beets, and Chioggia beets 
(which are red-and-white striped). Every fall and winter, 
I’m inundated with an assortment in my CSA box, and 
I’m always looking for new ways to prepare them. Last 
winter, I decided to kimchi-fy them! I chose to pair red 
beets and red cabbage because they are similar in color 
and, being sturdy vegetables, would ferment at the same 
rate. You can feel free to mix any-colored beets with any 
vegetable, including daikon radish, Chinese (napa) cabbage, 
or carrots, but then it wouldn’t be called Red Vegetable 
Kimchi anymore!
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Peel or scrub the beets. Halve or quarter them and cut 
them into ¹/8-inch-thick slices.
3. Bring the water to a boil in a medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat. Then add the salt and stir until it 
dissolves completely. Allow the brine to cool to room 
temperature. 
4. Combine the beets, cabbage, and brine in a large 
nonreactive bowl and soak for 12 to 24 hours, until the 
beets are soft and bendable.
5. Drain the vegetables in a colander and rinse under cold 
running water.
6. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, in a large 
nonreactive bowl, mix together the garlic, ginger, 
fish sauce, sugar (if using), and red pepper flakes to 
make the kimchi paste. Add a little water if the paste 
is too dry. Add the green onions. Taste and adjust the 
seasonings if desired. The paste should taste spicy, 
a little too salty to eat on its own, and a little sweet if 
you like.113 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 7. Toss the beets and cabbage with the kimchi paste. Pack 
them into a pint-size jar, leaving 2 inches of headspace. 
Rinse the bowl with a little water (2 tablespoons) and 
pour this liquid into the jar. Push down firmly with 
your hands to remove any air bubbles. Place a weight 
(see page 14 for options) on top of the vegetables 
to keep them submerged under the brine. Wrap the 
mouth of the jar with plastic wrap and ferment at room 
temperature away from direct sunlight for 3 to 10 days. 
The kimchi will release liquid as it ferments, so place the 
jar on a plate to catch any spills.
8. Once the kimchi is fermented to your liking, cap the jar 
and store in the refrigerator. (I keep the plastic wrap 
on to prevent smells from leaking out.) The kimchi 
will continue to ferment slowly and will keep for up to 
1 month.
PREP TIP:  The vegetables will continue to release 
liquid during fermentation, so don’t worry if they aren’t 
completely submerged at first. Additionally, the salting 
and the red pepper flakes add to the kimchi’s preservative 
power. If the vegetables are not fully submerged by the 
second day, you can make a brine using 1 cup water and 
1 tablespoon salt and pour it into the jar.114 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEMISO-GINGER SAUERKRAUT
JAPANESE-GERMAN FUSION
Makes:  2 quarts  | Prep time:  30 minutes, plus 1 hour salting time  |  
Fermenting time:  3 days to 1 month
11/2 to 2 pounds Savoy or 
green cabbage, shredded 
(1 medium cabbage)
4 teaspoons coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
2 tablespoons mild white miso
1/4 cup boiling water
4 teaspoons minced 
fresh ginger
1 tablespoon minced garlic 
(3 cloves)
2 cups shredded carrots 
(4 ounces)
2 green onions, choppedEven though sauerkraut is more of a European pickling 
tradition, its principles are similar to those of kimchi-making. 
Salt the vegetables, then ferment with spices submerged 
in brine and let the magic happen. That magic, of course, is 
lactofermentation. This process allows beneficial lactobacillus 
bacteria to convert sugars into lactic acid and promotes a 
healthier digestive system. I’ve added miso and ginger to give 
this kraut some Japanese flair. Keep in mind that fermented 
vegetables like sauerkraut generally do well with 2 to 3 percent 
salt by weight or 4 to 5 teaspoons of coarse sea salt per 
pound. Start with less and adjust to taste right before you pack 
the cabbage into jars. It’s easier to add salt than to take it away.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Toss the cabbage and salt together in a large 
nonreactive bowl. Massage and squeeze the cabbage 
with clean hands for several minutes, until the cabbage 
is soft and begins to release its juices. The cabbage is 
ready if when you pick up a handful and squeeze, juices 
drip down just as water releases from a wet sponge. 
Cover with a kitchen towel and set aside for 1 hour.
3. Meanwhile, whisk the miso into the boiling water in 
a second large nonreactive bowl. Set aside to cool. 
When it is cool, mix in the ginger, garlic, carrots, and 
green onions.
4. After the cabbage has sat for 1 hour, massage the 
miso mixture into the cabbage until evenly coated. 
Taste and add more seasonings if desired. Pack the 
cabbage into 2 quart-size jars or 1 half-gallon jar. Press 
down firmly using your fingers or a wooden spoon to 
remove any air pockets and to allow the juices to rise 
up. Leave about 2 inches of headspace. Place a weight 115 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables (see  page 14 for options) on top of the cabbage to 
submerge as much as possible under the brine. The 
kraut will continue to release juices, so place the jar(s) 
on a small plate to catch any spills.
5. Cap the jar(s) loosely and keep at room temperature 
and away from direct sunlight for anywhere from 
3 days to 1 month. Burp daily for the first few days to 
release pressure from the carbon dioxide that forms. 
After 36 hours, if the kraut isn’t completely submerged 
in brine, stir together 1 tablespoon salt and 1 cup water 
and add as much of this brine as necessary.
6. Taste the sauerkraut every few days. Once the kraut is 
fermented to your liking, cap the jar(s) tightly and store 
in the refrigerator. The kraut will continue to ferment 
slowly and will keep for months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  For this recipe, you can use any type of 
miso you have on hand. Darker misos (like a red miso) will 
be saltier, so you may want to start with less salt and/or 
add more sugar.116 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEFERMENTED EGGPLANT | Ca PhAo MUoI
VIETNAM
Makes:  1 quart  | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 1 hour salting time  | Fermenting time:  3 to 7 days
1 pound Asian eggplant 
(2 small eggplants)
3 to 4 tablespoons coarse sea 
salt or kosher salt, divided
2 cups water
2 pieces galangal, sliced into 
1/4-inch-thick pieces
2 garlic clovesVietnamese-style pickled eggplant is usually made with 
round, golf-ball-size white eggplants. Here, I’ve sliced 
easier-to-find thin-skinned eggplants into strips and fer -
mented them in brine for a similar pickle. Eat this pickle out 
of the jar or with any rice dish as a delicious condiment.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. Cut the eggplant crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick 
discs. Place the discs in a colander over the sink 
and sprinkle with 1 to 2 tablespoons of salt. Gently 
massage the salt into the eggplant. Cover and set 
aside for at least 1 hour to remove moisture and soften 
the eggplant.
3. Rinse the eggplant under cold running water and drain 
in a colander.
4. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the 
water to a boil. Stir in the remaining 2 tablespoons 
of salt until it dissolves completely. Set aside to 
cool completely.
5. Slip 1 slice galangal and 1 garlic clove into a quart-size 
jar. Pack the eggplant into the jar, squishing them as 
you go. Slip the remaining slice of galangal and the 
remaining garlic clove on top. Pour in the brine, leaving 
2 inches of headspace. Place a weight (see page 14 for 
options) on top of the eggplant to keep it submerged 
under the brine.
6. Cap the jar loosely with a lid and ferment at room 
temperature away from direct sunlight for 3 to 
7 days. Burp daily for the first few days to release 
pressure from the carbon dioxide that forms.117 Kimchi and Other Fermented Vegetables 7. Once the eggplant is fermented to your liking, store in 
the refrigerator. It will keep for several months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Asian eggplants, which include Japanese 
eggplants and Chinese eggplants, have thinner skins and a 
more delicate flavor than American globe eggplants. Italian 
eggplants and heirloom fairy tale eggplants are similar to 
the Asian varieties. If you can only find globe eggplants, 
peel the skin and cut the flesh into strips. If you notice the 
garlic turning blue or green in your pickling brine, don’t 
panic. It’s still safe to eat. This color change is caused 
by a chemical reaction that occurs with the acid in the 
brine, depending on the age of the garlic, the temperature, 
and the pH.recipe name, p age XX
SOY SAUCE–PICKLED EGGS / SHOYU T AMAGO, PAGE 128119
CHAPTER 5
Pickling Outside the Box
Apple and Celery Kimchi 122
Asian Pear and Fennel Pickles 124
Pickled Chickpeas, Two Ways 126
Spiced Chickpea Pickle 127
Soy Sauce–Pickled Eggs | Shoyu Tamago 128
Pickled Shallots 129
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing | Laphet Thoke 130
Soy-Pickled Bitter Melon 132
Citrus Chile Paste | Yuzu Kosho 133
Chili Oil 134
Spicy Bamboo Shoots in Chili Oil 135
Salt-Cured Eggs 136
Pickled Sunchokes 138
Pickled Chayote 140
Pickled Peanuts | Lao Cu Huasheng 141
Salty Limeade | Chanh Muõi 142
Pickled Sweet Potatoes 143
Chinese Five-Spice Pickled Grapes 144
Seven Gods Curry Pickle | Fukujinzuke 146120 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOME
PICKLE PASSPORT: CHINA
Must-try pickles: Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage (page 108),  
Spicy Smacked Cucumbers (page 38), Sichuan Pickles (page 110),  
Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles (page 27)
China has a long history of pickling, dating back to the Zhou 
Dynasty in 1100 BCE, and the Chinese people have always valued 
fermented foods for their health benefits. In fact, methods of 
pickling in other regions, such as Korean kimchi and German 
sauerkraut, are believed to have been inspired by practices 
 originating in China.
Like many other cultures, the Chinese pickled vegetables during 
the harvest season to be consumed throughout the year. Addi -
tionally, the origin stories of many regional fermented delicacies 
reflect extreme poverty and describe accidental discoveries that 
transformed spoiled, inedible, or overlooked odds and ends into 
delicious foods through fermentation.
There is no one “Chinese pickle.” Northern and Southern styles 
are very different, and every province, town, and village boasts 
its own style of pickle or ferment. Broadly, however, there are two 
main styles of pickling in China. One style uses a wet or dry brine 
and various spices to pickle vegetables for a few hours or over a 
longer period of time. This is called “xian cai” or salty vegetables. 
This method includes lactofermented vegetables. One of the 
most popular Chinese ferments is Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage 
(page 108), a traditional Chinese pickle that is enjoyed throughout 
the country. Sichuan Pickles (page 110) are another popular 
lactoferment that is unique to Sichuan province.121 Pickling Outside the Box
The second style is “jiang cai,” or sauce vegetables. This version 
uses soy sauce or savory bean sauce as a pickling base. Sugar is 
added for a salty-sweet taste.
Just as Chinese cuisine is composed of an assortment of 
flavors, Chinese pickles are often enhanced by a variety of flavors, 
set off by Sichuan peppers, soy sauce, chili oil, star anise, fennel 
seeds, and many more ingredients. These flavors aim to strike 
a balance of sweet, salty, bitter, sour, pungent, and spicy notes 
using a combination of ingredients and the vegetables or fruits 
being pickled.
In China, pickles are often cooked into a dish, such as in 
Teochew-style duck and salted mustard cabbage soup. They 
are also eaten as an appetizer with beer or tea to stimulate the 
appetite or served as a palate cleanser at the end of a meal.
122 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEAPPLE AND CELERY KIMCHI
KOREA
Makes:  2 quarts | Prep time:  20 minutes, plus 30 minutes salting time  | Fermenting time:  8 hours
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
21/4 cups water, divided
11/2 pounds crisp, sweet-tart 
apples like Pink Lady, Granny 
Smith, or Fuji, cored and 
chopped (3 apples)
1 cup chopped celery stalks 
(2 celery stalks)
2 teaspoons sweet rice flour
1 tablespoon sugar (optional)
1 tablespoon white miso
1 tablespoon minced garlic 
(3 cloves)
1 tablespoon minced fresh 
ginger (1/3 ounce)
2 to 4 tablespoons Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru), 
depending on taste
1/2 cup sliced onion 
(1/2 medium onion)For this recipe, I decided it was time to make apples the 
star of the show. Then I wondered whether, instead of fish 
sauce or fermented shrimp, I could use other umami-packed 
seasonings. I’d seen soy sauce used, so here I decided to try 
miso. The resulting kimchi is delightful, a little spicy, a little 
sweet and tart, with a hint of umami waiting in the wings.
1. Wash all your equipment in hot, soapy water.
2. Mix together the salt and 2 cups water in a large 
nonreactive bowl, until the salt dissolves completely. 
Add the apple and celery and soak for 30 minutes to 
prevent browning.
3. Drain the apple and celery in a colander and rinse 
under cold running water.
4. Meanwhile, mix together the remaining 1/4 cup of water 
and the sweet rice flour in a small heatproof bowl. 
Microwave on high for 20 seconds. Stir to remove any 
lumps. Microwave for 20 more seconds and stir until 
the mixture thickens. Stir in the sugar (if using) until it 
dissolves completely. Stir in the miso.
5. Wearing a pair of food-safe gloves, mix together the 
rice porridge mixture, garlic, ginger, and red pepper 
flakes in a separate large nonreactive bowl to make 
the kimchi paste. Add the onion. Taste and adjust the 
seasonings if desired. The paste should taste spicy, 
a little too salty to eat on its own, and a little sweet if 
you like.123 Pickling Outside the Box6. Toss the apple and celery in the kimchi paste until well 
coated. The kimchi is ready to eat immediately, but I 
like to leave it at room temperature for 8 hours and 
then store it in the refrigerator. I don’t recommend 
keeping apple kimchi for longer than 2 to 3 days. The 
kimchi flavors will eventually overpower the apple.
INGREDIENT TIP:  I like to use a mix of apples in this kimchi 
to get varying flavors and textures. I don’t peel them, but 
please do so if you prefer!124 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEASIAN PEAR AND FENNEL PICKLES
ASIAN-WESTERN FUSION
Makes:  2 quarts | Prep and Cook time:  20 minutes  | Curing time:  4 days
2 pounds Asian pears, or any 
other sweet, firm pear (3 to 
4 pears)
1 teaspoon lemon juice mixed 
into 4 cups water
1 (8-ounce) fennel bulb, cored 
and cut into thin slices
6 (2-inch) pieces orange zest
1 cup apple cider vinegar
1/2 cup distilled white vinegar
3/4 cup water
11/2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
3 to 4 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed orange juice (from 
1 small orange)Asian pears (sometimes called apple pears) have tan-brown 
skin with creamy, white flesh that is crisp and grainy in 
texture. Sweet and fragrant, they have a high water content 
and tend to bruise easily. That’s why you will often find them 
wrapped in foam at the store. Select pears that are firm 
and unblemished.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. Peel the pears, cut them into quarters or eighths, and 
core them. As you cut, drop the pear slices into the 
lemon water to prevent them from browning.
3. Divide the fennel and orange zest between 
2 quart-size jars.
4. Bring the apple cider vinegar, white vinegar, water, 
sugar, salt, and orange juice to a boil in a medium 
nonreactive saucepan. Reduce the heat to a simmer.
5. Tip the pears into the saucepan and simmer for 
5 minutes, until they turn white and are just cooked 
through but still firm. The pears should pierce easily 
with a fork but shouldn’t be mushy. Remove from 
the heat. Transfer the pears to the jars with a slotted 
spoon, packing them in tightly. Leave at least 1 inch 
of headspace.125 Pickling Outside the Box6. Pour the brine into the jars to cover the pears and 
fennel completely. Cap the jars immediately and set 
aside at room temperature and away from direct 
sunlight for 1 day before storing in the refrigerator. The 
pears and fennel are ready to eat after 3 days in 
the refrigerator. They will keep in the refrigerator 
for 1 month, but the color will begin to change after 
2 weeks.
YES You CaN! This pear and fennel pickle can be canned 
so it keeps for up to 1 year on the shelf. Feel free to double 
or triple the recipe. Following the canning instructions on 
page 15, place the hot pears and fennel in hot jars that have 
been washed with hot, soapy water. Fill the jars with hot 
brine, leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove any air bubbles, 
wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in a water-bath 
canner for 20 minutes (pints) or 25 minutes (quarts). Wait 
5 minutes before removing the jars, and check the seals 
after 12 to 24 hours.126 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED CHICKPEAS, TWO WAYS   
HoNEY-PICKLED C hICKPEaS
INDIAN-INSPIRED
Makes:  2 cups | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes  | Pickling time:  24 hours
1/2 cup apple cider vinegar
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon honey
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds
1 (1-inch) cinnamon stick
1/4 teaspoon Sichuan or 
black peppercorns
2 cups cooked chickpeas or  
1 (151/2-ounce) can, drained 
and rinsed
1 garlic clove, sliced
1 Thai red chile, chopped, or 
to tasteChickpeas, also called garbanzo beans, are the star ingre -
dient in hummus. While I’ve eaten chickpeas roasted as a 
snack and braised in curries, I would never have thought of 
pickling chickpeas if my editor hadn’t suggested it. But why 
not? Enjoy these pickled chickpeas as a topping for green 
and pasta salads, or add them as protein to your rice bowl.
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine 
the vinegar, sugar, honey, and salt. Stir until the sugar, 
honey, and salt dissolve. Remove from the heat.
2. In a small skillet over medium heat, dry roast the 
cumin, cinnamon, and peppercorns until they start to 
pop and release their fragrance, 2 to 3 minutes. Watch 
carefully so the spices don’t burn. Remove from the 
heat and pour the spices into the hot brine.
3. Put the chickpeas in a pint-size jar or glass container. 
Slip in the garlic and chile. Pour the brine over the 
chickpeas and top off with water, if necessary, to cover 
them completely. Cap tightly and shake to mix the 
water with the brine. Refrigerate for at least 24 hours. 
The pickled chickpeas will keep in the refrigerator for 
up to 3 weeks.127 Pickling Outside the BoxSPICED CHICKPEA PICKLE
INDIA
Makes:  2 cups | Prep and Cook time:  20 minutes  | Pickling time:  3 weeks
2 cups cooked chickpeas or  
1 (151/2-ounce) can, drained 
and rinsed
1 teaspoon red chili powder, 
like cayenne
1/4 teaspoon ground turmeric
1 teaspoon salt (or to taste)
1 teaspoon mustard seeds
1/2 teaspoon fenugreek seeds
2 or 3 curry leaves (optional)
1/4 cup vegetable oil, like 
canola or sunflower
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 teaspoon mango powder 
(amchur) or lime juiceCombining mangos and chickpeas in a traditional Indian 
pickle is not uncommon. However, when mangos aren’t easy 
to come by, you can make this pickle with chickpeas alone. 
This chickpea pickle is delicious eaten with rice and yogurt, 
and as a bonus, chickpeas are an excellent source of vegan 
protein. For more information on mango powder, check out 
the tip in the Tomato-Date Chutney recipe on page 64.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. In a medium nonreactive bowl, toss the chickpeas with 
the chili powder, turmeric, and salt. Set aside.
3. In a small skillet over medium heat, dry roast the 
mustard seeds, fenugreek seeds, and curry leaves 
(if using) until they start to pop and release their 
fragrance, 1 to 2 minutes. Watch carefully so the spices 
don’t burn. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool. 
Grind to a fine powder with a mortar and pestle or a 
spice grinder.
4. Using the same skillet over medium heat, warm the 
vegetable oil until hot but not smoking. Pour over the 
spice mixture and set aside to cool.
5. When the spice-flavored oil is cool, pour it over the 
chickpeas and gently mix until the chickpeas are 
covered evenly. Add the sesame oil and mango powder 
and gently mix. Transfer the pickle to a pint-size glass 
jar. Cap tightly and keep at room temperature away 
from direct sunlight for 1 week, shaking the jar or 
stirring daily. The pickle will be ready in 3 weeks. Store 
the pickle in the refrigerator, and it will keep for up to 
6 months.128 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESOY SAUCE–PICKLED EGGS  | ShoYu TaMaGo
JAPAN
Makes:  6 eggs | Prep time:  20 minutes  | Cook time:  6 minutes  | Pickling time:  4 to 24 hours
2 quarts water, plus 1/2 cup
6 large eggs
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup mirin
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1/4 cup sugarSoy sauce–pickled eggs are easy to make yet packed with 
umami. Some recipes add sake and kombu (dried kelp) to 
the mix, while others have only two ingredients, soy sauce 
and mirin. If you’re feeling fancy, add some spices, perhaps 
star anise, shichimi togarashi (7-spice blend), or cumin.
1. In a large saucepan, bring 2 quarts of water to a boil. 
Gently drop the eggs into the saucepan straight from 
the refrigerator. Adjust the heat so that the water 
is simmering gently (around 190°F), and simmer 
the eggs for 6 minutes (longer, if you prefer your 
eggs firmer). Prepare a bowl of ice water. When the 
eggs are done, remove them with a slotted spoon 
and dunk them in the ice water to stop them from 
cooking further.
2. When the eggs are cool enough to handle, peel them 
and arrange them so they fit snugly into a nonreactive 
container. (I use a rectangular 4-cup glass container 
with a tight-fitting lid.)
3. In a mixing bowl, mix together the soy sauce, mirin, 
remaining 1/2 cup of water, rice vinegar, and sugar and 
stir until the sugar dissolves completely. Pour the brine 
over the eggs. Place a folded paper towel over the eggs 
to keep them submerged under the brine for at least 
4 hours, or up to 24 hours. The yolks will start to cure 
if they remain in the brine for too long. Drain the eggs 
and store in the refrigerator. The eggs will keep for 
3 to 4 days.
TRY IT WIT h: Soy sauce–pickled eggs make a satisfying 
midafternoon snack, or eat them as your protein with a 
bowl of ramen or some rice.129 Pickling Outside the BoxPICKLED SHALLOTS
THAILAND
Makes:  1 quart | Prep time:  15 minutes, plus 8 to 24 hours salting time  | Cook time:  15 minutes  | 
Fermenting time:  4 days | Curing time:  1 week
2 tablespoons coarse sea 
salt or kosher salt, plus 
2 teaspoons
21/2 cups water, divided
1 pound small shallots, peeled 
but kept intact
11/2 cups distilled white vinegar
1/2 cup sugar
2 Thai chiles, pricked 
with a fork
2 Asian lime leaves or strips of 
lime zest
1 lemongrass bulb, smashed 
(or 2 lemongrass tops, see 
page 78)The overnight brining process draws moisture from the 
shallots, which helps them maintain their crunch, so don’t 
skip this step. If small Asian shallots are hard to find (they’re 
usually about 1 1/4 inches long, weigh 1/2 ounce, and are sold 
at Asian markets), opt for red pickling onions instead.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. In a large bowl, stir together 2 tablespoons of salt 
and 2 cups of water, until the salt dissolves. Soak the 
shallots in the brine for 8 to 24 hours.
3. Drain the shallots, rinse under cold running water, and 
drain in a colander.
4. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan over medium heat, 
combine the vinegar, remaining 1/2 cup of water, sugar, 
remaining 2 teaspoons of salt, chiles, lime leaves, and 
lemongrass bulb and bring to a boil. Then adjust the 
heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat 
and set aside to cool.
5. Pack the shallots into a quart-size jar and pour in the 
vinegar brine. Cap the jar and keep in the sun or a 
warm, dry place for at least 4 days. Taste, and once 
the shallots are sour enough to your liking, store 
in the refrigerator for 1 more week before eating. 
Pickled shallots will keep in the refrigerator for about 
6 months.
TRY IT WIT h: Pickled shallots will cut through any spicy 
Thai curry. Or slice them up to top tacos, sandwiches, 
or burgers.130 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED TEA LEAF DRESSING  | LaPhET Tho KE
MYANMAR
Makes:  1/3 cup | Prep time:  10 minutes, plus 10 minutes sitting time | Fermenting time:  2 to 3 days | 
Curing time:  3 days
1/4 cup good quality loose-leaf 
green tea, like Sencha
2 garlic cloves
1 (1-inch) piece fresh 
ginger, peeled
2 small dried red chiles, like 
chiles de arbol, or 1 teaspoon 
dried chili flakes
1 teaspoon fish sauce or 
soy sauce, plus more for 
the salad
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
1/4 cup vegetable oil, like 
sunflower or avocado
4 cups chopped Chinese 
cabbage or romaine lettuce
11/2 cups chopped 
fresh tomatoes
Handful fresh cilantro leaves
3 tablespoons crushed 
roasted peanuts
3 tablespoons toasted 
sunflower seeds
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame seeds
Sesame oil, for drizzlingI first had pickled tea leaf salad at a San Francisco restaurant 
called Burma SuperStar. One bite, and I was hooked. Salty 
pickled tea leaves were mashed to a pulp and mixed with 
chiles, garlic, and ginger, then tossed with romaine lettuce, 
tomatoes, fried garlic bits, and roasted nuts and seeds. 
While fermented tea leaves are sold all over Myanmar, 
they’re not easy to find in the United States. Fortunately, 
cookbook author Naomi Duguid (author of Burma: Rivers 
of Flavor ) introduced me to a version using dried green tea 
leaves. I’ve adapted her recipe here.
1. Pick out twigs or hard pieces from the tea leaves.
2. Make the tea by bringing a kettle of water to a boil (use 
enough water to fill your mug). Place the tea leaves in a 
tea pot or a large mug. Pour in the freshly boiled water 
and steep the tea leaves for 10 minutes.
3. Strain the tea liquid and drink it if you want. Press the 
tea leaves with the back of a spoon to squeeze out 
excess liquid. Taste the tea leaves. If they are too bitter, 
steep in boiling water for another 3 to 5 minutes and 
strain again.
4. Transfer the tea leaves to a small container (I use 
a glass Pyrex bowl) and cover with a kitchen towel 
or several layers of cheesecloth. Keep at room 
temperature and away from direct sunlight for 2 to 
3 days, until the tea leaves smell a little pungent.
5. In the bowl of a food processor, combine the tea 
leaves, garlic, ginger, dried chiles, and fish sauce and 
blitz until the leaves are finely chopped. Keep the 
food processor going and drizzle in the lime juice and 
vegetable oil until a paste forms. Taste and adjust the 
seasonings if desired.131 Pickling Outside the Box6. Pour the dressing back into the small container (from 
step 4) and store in the refrigerator for at least 3 more 
days for the flavors to meld.
7. To serve, toss the tea leaf salad dressing with the 
cabbage, tomatoes, cilantro, peanuts, sunflower seeds, 
and sesame seeds. Add more fish sauce or salt to taste 
and drizzle with the sesame oil. Serve with a wedge of 
lime or lemon.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Laphet (also spelled lephet  or lahpet ) are 
the fermented leaves of the tea plant ( Camellia sinensis ). 
Fresh tea leaves are steamed, then hand-mashed on 
bamboo mats. The mashed tea leaves are packed into a 
vessel, then weighted and fermented for several months 
to 1 year.132 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESOY-PICKLED BITTER MELON
JAPAN
Makes:  1 quart | Prep time:  10 minutes  | Pickling time:  1 hour
1 pound Chinese bitter melons 
(2 long melons)
1/4 cup soy sauce
3 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 teaspoon sugar
1 (2-inch) square piece of 
kombu (dried kelp, optional)
1 small dried red chile pepper, 
like chile de arbolBitter melon, or bitter gourd, may just be the most bitter 
among all fruits and vegetables. It is a tropical vine in the 
gourd family and related to zucchini, squash, cucumber, 
and pumpkin. Despite its bitterness, bitter melon is 
popular in Asian cooking and has long been used to treat 
diabetes-related conditions. There are two types: the long, 
pale green Chinese variety that has smooth bumps and the 
narrower Indian one that has spiky skin and pointed ends. 
This recipe uses the former.
1. Halve the bitter melons lengthwise and scoop out the 
seeds. Cut crosswise into 1/2-inch slices.
2. In a zip-top bag, combine the soy sauce, vinegar, and 
sugar. Seal and shake to mix. Add the bitter melon, 
kombu (if using), and chile and gently massage. 
Expel as much air as possible from the bag, seal, and 
refrigerate for at least 1 hour. The bitter melon will keep 
for 1 week in the refrigerator.133 Pickling Outside the BoxCITRUS CHILE PASTE  | YUZU K oSho
JAPAN
Makes:  1 cup | Prep time:  20 minutes  | Curing time:  2 to 3 days
6 Meyer lemons, 
preferably organic
2 large limes, 
preferably organic
3 jalapeño peppers, minced 
with seeds
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher saltAs its name implies, yuzu kosho is a condiment made with 
a Japanese citrus called yuzu and peppers (kosho). Yuzu 
is believed to be a hybrid of mandarin orange and ichang 
papeda (a group of citrus plants native to tropical Asia). It 
looks like a small grapefruit with a rough peel and is yellow 
when ripe. While yuzu is rarely eaten as a fruit, its tart and 
aromatic juice and zest are used in the same way lemons are 
used in other cuisines. The juice tastes like grapefruit with 
mandarin overtones. Yuzu is the main ingredient in Japanese 
ponzu sauce, and it is also made into yuzu vinegar.
Yuzu fruit is almost impossible to find fresh in the United 
States, although bottled juice is available. Meyer lemons, 
with their sweet-tart flavor and fragrance, make an excellent 
substitute, but if you can’t find them, look for thin-skinned 
lemons and instead of 6 tablespoons lemon juice, use 
4 tablespoons lemon juice and 2 tablespoons orange juice in 
this recipe.
1. Zest the lemons and limes with a Microplane grater 
until you get about 1/2 cup of zest. Juice the lemons to 
get 6 tablespoons of juice. (Save the remaining lemons 
and limes to use another time.)
2. In the bowl of a food processor, combine the zest, 
juice, jalapeños, and salt, and blitz until you have 
a coarse, yellowish-green paste. Or use a mortar 
and pestle. Transfer to a jar and cap tightly. Keep at 
room temperature and away from direct sunlight for 
2 to 3 days to allow the flavors to develop. Store the 
yuzu kosho in the refrigerator, and it will keep for 1 to 
2 months.
TRY IT WIT h: Use yuzu kosho in a marinade (honey, ginger, 
and olive oil sound good), rub it on grilled meats or seafood 
like fish or scallops, or stir it into ramen or miso soup. When 
mixed into mayo, it becomes a zingy dip for French fries.134 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMECHILI OIL
CHINA
Makes:  1/2 cup | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes | Infusing time:  1 day
1 star anise pod
1 (1-inch) cinnamon stick
1 teaspoon sesame seeds
1/2 teaspoon Sichuan  
peppercorns
2 tablespoons Asian red 
pepper flakes, like Sichuan 
chili flakes or Korean red 
pepper flakes (gochujaru)
1/2 cup vegetable oil, 
like peanut, sunflower, 
grapeseed, or avocado
1/2 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon sugarSure, you can buy chili oil—or you can make your own, and 
adjust the heat level and balance of spices to your liking. 
This is a crucial ingredient for the Bamboo Shoots with Chili 
Oil (page 135), or you can drizzle it over noodles and rice for 
an instant pick-me-up.
1. In a small skillet (I use a cast-iron pan) over medium 
heat, dry roast the star anise, cinnamon stick, sesame 
seeds, and Sichuan peppercorns until fragrant and 
brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Stir often and watch carefully 
that the spices don’t burn. Transfer the star anise and 
cinnamon stick to a medium heatproof bowl and add 
the red pepper flakes. Grind the Sichuan peppercorns 
and sesame seeds with a mortar and pestle or a spice 
grinder and add to the bowl.
2. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, warm the 
oil until it starts to shimmer and bubble gently. Remove 
from the heat and carefully pour into the bowl with the 
spices. The spices will crackle and pop. Stir in the salt 
and sugar. Set aside to cool and let the spices infuse 
the oil for at least 1 day. Fish out the star anise and 
cinnamon before serving.
3. Use 3 tablespoons in Spicy Bamboo Shoots with 
Chili Oil (page 135) and save the remainder for another 
use. The chili oil will keep at room temperature for 
2 weeks or in the refrigerator for 6 months.135 Pickling Outside the BoxSPICY BAMBOO SHOOTS IN CHILI OIL
CHINA
Makes:  1 cup | Prep time:  30 minutes  | Curing time:  1 hour
1 cup shredded bamboo shoots
3 tablespoons homemade Chili 
Oil (page 134)
1/4 teaspoon sesame oil
Pinch salt
Dash white pepperBamboo shoots are the tender shoots of the bamboo plant, 
harvested before they reach 1 foot tall. They are available 
fresh (and raw), canned, or vacuum-packed. Raw bamboo 
shoots contain toxins (cyanogenic glycosides), but these 
toxins can be easily destroyed by boiling the shoots in salted 
water for 15 to 20 minutes. I usually buy canned, because 
they’re available everywhere, I can get them cut in just the 
size and shape I need (whether shredded or sliced), and 
they’re ready-to-eat.
1. Rinse the bamboo shoots under cold running water. 
Drain in a colander and pat dry with a kitchen towel.
2. Transfer the bamboo shoots to a bowl and add the 
chili oil, using as much or as little of the chili flakes as 
you like. Add the sesame oil, salt, and pepper. Stir to 
combine. Taste and adjust the seasonings as desired.
3. Set aside for 1 hour for the flavors to meld before 
serving. To store, pack the bamboo shoots into an 
airtight container and store in the refrigerator for up 
to 1 week.
TRY IT WIT h: Spicy bamboo shoots are delicious as a 
condiment served with fried rice or congee or eaten as a 
snack straight up. You can also add them to a stir-fry dish.136 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALT-CURED EGGS
CHINA
Makes:  6 eggs | Prep and Cook time:  20 minutes  | Curing time:  4 to 6 weeks
6 duck eggs or extra-large 
chicken eggs
2 cups water
1/2 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
2 teaspoons Chinese rice 
cooking wine
2 teaspoons sugarIn Chinese cuisine, cured egg yolks (curing uses 15 to 
20 percent concentrated salt brine) are traditionally used 
in fillings for mooncakes, steamed buns, and egg custards. 
Duck eggs are favored for their fattier flavor, but you can 
use chicken eggs, too. Use a ratio of 1 cup of salt to 4 cups 
of water to adjust the formula for the number of eggs you’d 
like to cure. Additionally, feel free to add herbs and spices 
such as star anise, ginger, or cardamom for extra flavor 
and aroma. Cooking wine and sugar help the yolks obtain a 
bright orange color.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water. Wash 
the eggs under cold running water and set aside to dry.
2. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, combine 
the water and salt and bring to a boil. Stir until 
the salt dissolves completely. Adjust the heat and 
simmer for 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat 
and stir in the wine and sugar until the sugar 
dissolves completely.
3. Place the eggs in a quart-size jar and pour in the brine. 
Place a weight (see page 14 for options) on top of the 
eggs to keep them submerged under the brine. Cap 
the jar tightly and cure at room temperature away from 
direct sunlight for 4 to 6 weeks.
4. After about 4 weeks, take an egg out to test for 
saltiness. Bring a small saucepan of water to a boil. 
Lower the egg gently into the water (their shells are 
thinner and more fragile than chicken eggs) and cook 
for 9 minutes. Prepare a bowl with ice water and place 
the egg into the bowl to chill after cooking. Leave to 
cool before peeling. This prevents a gray tinge from 
forming on the yolk’s edge. A good-quality salted egg 137 Pickling Outside the Boxshould have a firm, bright-orange yolk, and the egg 
white should be pure white, not cloudy or yellow, and 
should have no off smell.
5. If the egg isn’t salty enough, leave the rest in the brine 
for another week or two. Once the eggs are salty 
enough to your liking, drain them and store them 
in the refrigerator until you are ready to cook them. 
Salt-cured eggs will keep in the refrigerator for 3 to 
4 weeks.
TRY IT WIT h: Salt-cured eggs can be served smothered 
in sambal as a side dish with rice or noodles or eaten 
with congee. The yolks can be mashed and turned into a 
carbonara-like sauce for pasta. They can also be used as a 
filling for Chinese mooncakes and cookies.138 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED SUNCHOKES
FUSION
Makes:  1 quart | Prep time:  15 minutes, plus 3 to 8 hours brining time  | Cook time:  30 minutes  |  
Pickling time:  1 to 3 days
FoR ThE VEGET aBLES
1 pound sunchokes (preferably 
small ones)
Juice of 1 lemon mixed with 
3 cups water
FoR ThE SaLT BRINE
4 cups water
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
FoR ThE PICKLING 
LIQUID
1 cup cider vinegar
1/2 cup water
2/3 cup sugar
1 small fresh turmeric root, cut 
into 4 slices, or 1 teaspoon 
ground turmeric
2 dried chiles de arbol
2 teaspoons coriander seedSunchokes, or Jerusalem artichokes, are edible tubers (like 
potatoes). They are the thickened underground part of a 
certain breed of sunflower. The knobby root vegetables have 
light-brown skin, which may be tinged with yellow, red, or 
purple, depending on the soil they were grown in. Sunchokes 
are available year-round, but their prime season is October 
to April. Every fall and winter, I get a boatload of sunchokes in 
my CSA box. Other than roasting them, I didn’t really know 
what to do with them until I discovered that they can be 
eaten raw and decided to pickle them! Peeling them is close 
to impossible because of their bumpy surface, so I usually 
eat them skin-on, which is a plus because the skin contains 
most of the nutrients.
1. PREP ThE SUNCH oKES: Scrub the sunchokes well 
with a vegetable brush to remove any dirt and stringy 
bits. Cut them crosswise into 1/4-inch slices and dunk 
them into the bowl of lemon water to prevent them 
from browning.
2. MaKE ThE SaLT BRINE : In a medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat, bring the water and salt to a boil. 
Stir until the salt dissolves completely. Set aside to cool. 
When the brine is cooled to room temperature, drain 
the sunchokes, and combine them with the brine in 
a large bowl. Cover and set aside for at least 3 hours, 
preferably 8 hours.
3. MaKE ThE PICKLING  LIQUID : In a medium saucepan 
over medium-high heat, combine the vinegar, water, 
sugar, turmeric, and dried chiles and bring to a boil. 
Stir until the sugar dissolves completely. Taste and 
adjust the seasonings if desired. Set aside to cool to 
room temperature.139 Pickling Outside the Box4. Drain the sunchokes and rinse under cold running 
water. Drain in a colander. Pack the sunchokes into 
2 pint-size jars. Fish out the turmeric slices and dried 
chiles from the pickling liquid. Slip 2 turmeric slices, 
1 dried chile, and 1 teaspoon coriander seed into each 
jar. Pour the cooled pickling liquid over the sunchokes, 
leaving 1/2 inch of headspace. Cap the jars and store 
in the refrigerator for 1 to 3 days before eating. The 
sunchokes will keep in the refrigerator for 2 weeks.
YES You CaN! Pickled sunchokes can be canned so they 
keep for up to 1 year on the shelf. Feel free to double or 
triple the recipe. Following the canning instructions on 
page 15, place the sunchokes in 2 hot, pint-size jars that 
have been washed in hot, soapy water. Fill the jars with hot 
pickling liquid, leaving a 1/4-inch headspace. Remove any 
air bubbles, wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in a 
water-bath canner for 15 minutes. Wait 5 minutes before 
removing the jars, and check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fresh turmeric is available at Asian 
and Indian markets, as well as at specialty grocery 
stores like Whole Foods. Use extra turmeric to make 
golden milk by steeping slices in your choice of hot milk 
(coconut is wonderful) with black pepper for a comforting, 
healing beverage.140 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMEPICKLED CHAYOTE
SOUTHEAST ASIAN–INSPIRED
Makes:  1 quart | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes  | Pickling time:  2 to 3 days
FoR ThE VEGET aBLES
13 ounces to 1 pound chayote 
(1 medium chayote)
1 jalapeño, chopped (optional)
FoR ThE BRINE
1/2 cup vinegar
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup sugarChayote squash, also called mirliton or vegetable pear, is a 
summer squash that originates in Mexico. Chayote looks like 
a large pear and has the crunchy texture of unripe pear with 
a mild, almost cucumber-like flavor. Today, it grows in many 
warm climates all over the world, including Southeast Asia. 
My mom used to cut chayote into matchsticks and stir-fry 
it with baby shrimp. Imagine my surprise when I discovered 
that chayote could be pickled and even eaten raw. Chayote is 
a very nutritious fruit-vegetable, but most of the nutrients are 
in the peel, so try to cook and eat it peel-on!
1. PREP ThE VEGET aBLES: If you decide to peel the cha -
yote, wear food-safe gloves. Chayote releases a slimy 
sap when peeled that can irritate your skin. Rinse the 
peeled chayote under cold running water and pat dry.
2. Halve the chayote lengthwise and cut crosswise into 
1/4-inch-thick slices. Pack into a quart-size jar with the 
chopped jalapeño, if using.
3. MaKE ThE BRINE : In a small saucepan over medium 
heat, combine the vinegar, soy sauce, water, and sugar, 
and bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and set 
aside to cool for a few minutes. Pour the brine over the 
chayote in the jar.
4. Cool at room temperature and store in the refrigerator 
for 2 to 3 days before serving. The pickled chayote will 
keep for 2 weeks in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chayote is available at Asian and Latino 
markets. Look for a fruit that’s firm to the touch, between 
light and dark green in color, and without any blemishes or 
off-color soft spots.141 Pickling Outside the BoxPICKLED PEANUTS  | Lao CU HUASHENG
CHINA
Makes:  11/2 cups | Prep time:  10 minutes
3 tablespoons balsamic 
vinegar, preferably 
nicely aged
3 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon honey
2 teaspoons sesame oil
Pinch salt
1 cup unsalted 
roasted peanuts
1/2 cup finely chopped red 
onion (1/2 medium onion)Pickled peanuts? Yes! It’s a popular snack and appetizer 
in China and is a very simple dish. The Chinese name “lao 
cu huasheng” means old vinegar peanuts. I believe that 
the vinegar used is traditionally an aged black vinegar like 
Chinkiang black vinegar. I’ve adapted the recipe here to use 
balsamic vinegar, which you are more likely to have in your 
pantry. You can also add cilantro, celery, or chiles to the mix. 
Refreshing and crunchy, pickled peanuts are a snack you’ll 
be popping all day long.
In a medium bowl, stir together the vinegar, soy sauce, 
honey, sesame oil, and salt. Add the peanuts and onion 
and toss to coat evenly. Taste and adjust the seasonings if 
desired. The peanuts are ready to eat immediately, but if 
you set them aside for a few hours to allow the flavors to 
meld together, they will taste much better.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you can find them, buy peanuts with their 
red skins still on (like Spanish peanuts), because they will make 
this dish more authentic. These nuts are usually sold raw. To 
roast them, preheat the oven to 350°F and spread the peanuts 
on a large baking sheet. Bake for 8 minutes, then turn off the 
heat and leave the peanuts in the oven until they cool down.142 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESALTY LIMEADE  | ChANH MUÔ‚
I
VIETNAM
Makes:  12 limes | Prep and Cook time:  10 minutes  | Fermenting time:  3 weeks
2 cups water
1/4 cup coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt, plus more 
to sprinkle
10 to 12 Key limes (or as many 
as can fit into a quart-size 
jar), preferably organic
Superfine sugar, for serving
Still water, sparkling water, or 
lemon-lime soda like 7-Up, 
for servingSalty lemonade or limeade is a popular “soda” in Vietnam. 
To make it, the citrus fruit is first preserved in brine. The 
preserved fruit and the drink go by the same name, “chanh 
muô’i.” The fruit is also used as a home remedy for colds: 
Simply steep a wedge in a cup of hot water and stir in 
some honey.
1. Wash all your equipment with hot, soapy water.
2. In a small saucepan over medium-high heat, bring 
the water to a boil. Stir in the salt until it dissolves 
completely. Remove from the heat and set aside 
to cool.
3. Scrub the limes to remove any wax or dirt. Cut off the 
top and bottom ends of the limes to reveal some flesh. 
Halve them partway, not all the way through. You want 
them to stay attached at one end.
4. Sprinkle salt inside each lime and pack into a quart-size 
jar. Pour in the brine, leaving a headspace of 1 inch. 
Place a weight (see page 14 for options) on top of the 
limes to keep them submerged under the brine. Cap 
loosely and ferment at room temperature in a sunny 
spot for at least 3 weeks. The limes may brown and the 
brine may turn cloudy, and that’s okay. The limes will 
keep at room temperature indefinitely. Always use a 
clean utensil to scoop out the limes.
5. To make the limeade, place a salted lime in a tall glass. 
Muddle with a spoon. Add the sugar to taste and pour 
in the water or soda. Stir until the sugar dissolves. The 
limeade should have a subtle salty-sweet flavor.
SWITCh ThINGS u P: Try curing Meyer lemons and 
kumquats, too. Or muddle the lime with mint.143 Pickling Outside the BoxPICKLED SWEET POTATOES
FUSION
Makes:  1 quart | Prep and Cook time:  20 minutes, plus 1 hour sitting time  | Pickling time:  1 hour
1 pound sweet potatoes (2 to 
3 medium potatoes)
1/2 jalapeño, seeded 
and chopped
1 cup distilled white vinegar
1 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 (2-inch) piece fresh 
ginger, peeled and cut into 
thin slices
1/2 cup green onions, finely 
chopped (2 stalks)My mom pickles just about everything. I remember biting 
into a hard orange chunk once thinking it was carrot. 
It wasn’t. I don’t recommend pickling chunks of sweet 
potato, but when they are sliced very thin, sweet potatoes 
make tasty, crunchy, and surprisingly good pickles. Use a 
mandoline if you have one. If not, a very sharp paring knife 
will do the job.
1. Peel the sweet potatoes and cut crosswise into very 
thin, round slices, about ¹/16-inch thick. Use a mandoline 
if you have one. Soak the slices in a large bowl of cold 
water for at least 1 hour to remove excess starch. Rinse 
with cold running water and drain in a colander. Pat dry 
with kitchen towels.
2. In a medium nonreactive bowl, combine the sweet 
potatoes and jalapeño.
3. In a nonreactive saucepan over medium heat, combine 
the vinegar, water, sugar, salt, pepper, and ginger 
and bring to a boil. Adjust the heat and simmer for 
2 minutes, stirring until the sugar dissolves completely. 
Remove from the heat and pour over the 
sweet potatoes.
4. Cover and set aside for 1 hour at room temperature to 
allow the flavors to meld. Just before serving, stir in the 
green onions. Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up 
to 1 week.
DoN’T FoRGET:  While sweet potatoes are edible raw, other 
potatoes are not. So don’t try to substitute other potatoes 
in this recipe.144 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMECHINESE FIVE-SPICE PICKLED GRAPES
ASIAN FUSION 
Makes:  1 quart | Prep and Cook time:  15 minutes  | Pickling time:  8 to 24 hours
1 pound seedless red or 
black grapes
1 cup apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup water
3/4 cup sugar
Pinch salt
1 (2-inch) cinnamon stick
1 star anise pod
1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/8 teaspoon Sichuan  
peppercorns
5 whole clovesChinese five-spice is very much like French herbes de 
Provence, a blend of herbs and spices that is strongly 
associated with the region’s cuisine. The spices and 
amounts in the five-spice blend vary from region to region 
and even from household to household. It all depends 
on personal tastes and preferences. However, the most 
common ingredients are cinnamon, star anise, fennel seeds, 
Sichuan peppercorns, and cloves. If you already have ground 
Chinese five-spice powder in your pantry, use 2 teaspoons 
for your pickling brine.
1. Remove the grapes from the stem and halve them.
2. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, 
combine the vinegar, water, sugar, and salt, and bring 
to a boil. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool.
3. In a quart-size jar, place the cinnamon, star anise, 
fennel seeds, peppercorns, and cloves. Add the grapes. 
Pour the cooled brine over the grapes. I like to cool the 
brine before pouring it over the grapes so they stay 
firm. You can pour hot brine over the grapes to yield 
a more tender pickle, and the grapes will absorb the 
flavors faster. The choice is yours.145 Pickling Outside the Box4. Cap the jar and store the pickled grapes in the 
refrigerator for at least 8 to 24 hours before serving 
cold. The grapes will keep in the refrigerator for 
1 month.
YES You CaN! The pickled grapes can be canned so they 
keep for up to 1 year on the shelf. Feel free to double or 
triple the recipe. Following the canning instructions on 
page 15, place the grapes in hot jars that have been washed 
with hot, soapy water, leaving a 1-inch headspace. Fill the 
jars with hot brine, leaving a 1/2-inch headspace. Remove 
any air bubbles, wipe the rims, and seal the jars. Process in 
a water-bath canner for 15 minutes (pints) or 20 minutes 
(quarts). Wait 5 minutes before removing the jars, and 
check the seals after 12 to 24 hours.146 ASIAN PICKLES AT HOMESEVEN GODS CURRY PICKLE | FUKUJINZ uKE
JAPAN
Makes:  1 quart | Prep time:  15 minutes, plus 30 minutes sitting time  | Cook time:  10 minutes  | 
Pickling time:  4 days to 1 week
FoR ThE VEGET aBLES
3/4 cup diced cucumber 
(4 ounces)
3/4 cup peeled and diced 
daikon radish (3 ounces)
1/2 cup peeled and diced carrot 
(2 ounces)
1/2 cup diced Japanese 
eggplant (3 ounces)
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt or 
kosher salt
1/2 cup peeled and chopped 
lotus root (2 ounces)
FoR ThE MaRINaDE
6 tablespoons soy sauce
3/4 cup rice vinegar
1/4 cup mirin
1/4 cup sake or Chinese 
rice wine
3 tablespoons sugar
1 (3-inch) square piece kombu 
(dried kelp), soaked in water 
until soft and sliced into 
thin strips
1 teaspoon dried chili flakes, 
like togarashiFukujinzuke is a Japanese pickle made with soy sauce 
and vinegar that is often served with curry. With its acidic 
qualities and crunchy texture, it’s a delightful contrast to 
soft, spicy curry. The name fukujinzuke  pays homage to 
iconic figures from Japanese popular mythology: the Seven 
Gods of Good Fortune, or Shichi Fukujin. The pickle was 
traditionally made with seven vegetables, among them 
daikon radish, eggplant, lotus root, and cucumber. Other 
common ingredients include carrots, shiso, kombu, ginger, 
and sometimes beets for color.
1. PREP ThE VEGET aBLES: In a large bowl, toss the 
cucumber, daikon, carrot, and eggplant with the salt. 
Place a heavy plate on top of the vegetables to weigh 
them down, and set aside for at least 30 minutes.
2. Bring a small saucepan of water to a boil over 
medium-high heat. Rinse the lotus root in cold water. 
Add the lotus root to the boiling water. When the water 
returns to a boil, simmer for 1 minute. Drain the lotus 
root and set aside.
3. After 30 minutes, remove the weight from the 
vegetables. Rinse with cold running water and drain 
in a colander. With clean hands, take a handful at a 
time and squeeze as much water as you can from the 
vegetables. Transfer them to another bowl. Discard all 
the liquid.147 Pickling Outside the Box4. MaKE ThE MaRINaDE: In a medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat, bring the soy sauce, vinegar, mirin, 
sake, and sugar to a boil. Adjust the heat to a simmer 
and add the vegetables and lotus root. Once the liquid 
starts to simmer again, remove from the heat and set 
aside to cool.
5. Scoop out the vegetables with a slotted spoon or 
spider and pack into a quart-size jar.
6. Return the marinade to the stove and bring back to a 
boil. Remove from the heat and add the kombu and 
chili flakes. Set aside to cool to room temperature, then 
pour over the vegetables. Cap the jar and store in the 
refrigerator for 4 to 5 days. Taste and see whether it 
is pickled to your liking. The pickle will taste best after 
at least 1 week. It will keep in the refrigerator for 4 to 
5 weeks.
SWITCh IT uP:  The only rule you need to follow for this 
recipe is that you need 1 pound of vegetables, about 3 cups 
chopped. The list of vegetables in the recipe is just a 
guideline. You can use whatever vegetables are in season or 
in your kitchen!149
ALL ABOUT ALTITUDE
It takes longer for water to boil at higher altitudes, because the air pressure is lower. Water 
evaporates faster, and gases expand more at higher altitudes as well. For those of you living 
at higher altitudes, chances are you have already learned to adjust your cooking and baking 
recipes. With water-bath canning, you simply have to extend the processing time slightly at 
higher elevations. Use this chart to make the necessary adjustments. If you don't know your 
altitude, check out the chart on the following pages.
Water-Bath Canning Adjustments
ALTITUDE IN FEET INCREASE PROCESSING TIME
0–1,000 No adjustment needed
1,001–3,000 5 minutes
3,001–6,000 10 minutes
6,001–8,000 15 minutes
8,001–10,000 20 minutes150 All About AltitudeAltitudes of Cities in the United States and Canada
United States
STATE CITY FEET METERS
Arizona Mesa 1,243 379
Phoenix 1,150 351
Scottsdale 1,257 383
Tucson 2,389 728
California Fontana 1,237 377
Moreno Valley 1,631 497
Colorado Aurora 5,471 1,668
Colorado Springs 6,010 1,832
Denver 5,183 1,580
Georgia Atlanta 1,026 313
Idaho Boise 2,730 832
Idaho Falls 4,705 1,434
Iowa Sioux City 1,201 366
Kansas Wichita 1,299 396
Montana Billings 3,123 952
Missoula 3,209 978
Nebraska Henderson 1,867 569
Lincoln 1,176 358
Omaha 1,090 332
Nevada Las Vegas 2,001 610
Reno 4,505 1,373
New Mexico Albuquerque 5,312 1,619
Santa Fe 7,260 2,213
North Carolina Asheville 2,134 650
North Dakota Bismarck 1,686 514
Ohio Akron 1,004 306151 All About AltitudeSTATE CITY FEET METERS
Oklahoma Oklahoma City 1,201 366
Pennsylvania Pittsburgh 1,370 418
South Dakota Rapid City 3,202 976
Texas Amarillo 3,605 1,099
El Paso 3,740 1,140
Lubbock 3,256 992
Utah Provo 4,551 1,387
Salt Lake City 4,226 1,288
Washington Spokane 1,843 562
Wyoming Casper 5,150 1,570
Canada
PROVINCE CITY FEET METERS
Alberta Calgary 3,600 1,100
Edmonton 2,201 671
Ontario Hamilton 1,063 324
Manitoba Brandon 1,343 409
Saskatchewan Regina 1,893 577
Saskatoon 1,580 482MEASUREMENT CONVERSIONS
VoLUmE EquIV aLENTS (LIqUID)
US  
STANDARDUS STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1½ cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon or 4 quarts 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VoLUmE EquIV aLENTS (DrY)
US  
STANDARDMETRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
⅛ teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
⅓ cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 LovEN TEmpEra TurES
FAHRENHEIT CELSIUS 
(APPROXIMATE)
250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 165°C
350°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°C
WEIghT EquIV aLENTS
US  
STANDARDMETRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound 455 g
152153RESOURCES
AMAZoN.CoM
A wide variety of nonperishable Asian ingredients and cookware are available 
on Amazon.
IMPoRTFooD.CoM
A great resource for Southeast Asian ingredients, both fresh and packaged.
MELISSAS .CoM
Melissa’s Produce imports and distributes exotic fresh fruits and vegetables from 
around the globe.
ToKYoCENTRAL .CoM
A hub for Japanese groceries and goods.REFERENCES
BOOKS
The All New Ball Book of Canning and Preserving (Oxmoor House, 2016)
The Art of Fermentation: An In-Depth Exploration of Essential Concepts and Processes 
from Around the World  by Sandor Ellix Katz (Chelsea Green Publishing, 2012)
Asian Pickles: Sweet, Sour, Salty, Cured, and Fermented Preserves  by Karen Solomon 
(Ten Speed Press, 2014)
Japanese Pickled Vegetables: 129 Homestyle Recipes for Traditional Brined, Vinegared 
and Fermented Pickles  by Machiko Tateno (Tuttle Publishing, 2019)
The Korean Kimchi Cookbook: 78 Fiery Recipes for Korea's Legendary Pickled 
and Fermented Vegetables by Kim Man-Jo, Lee O-Young, and Lee Kyou-Tae 
(Tuttle Publishing, 2018)
WEBSITES
Colorado State University Extension: farmtotable.colostate.edu
Diane M. Barrett, “Maximizing the Nutritional Value of Fruits and 
Vegetables”: fruitandvegetable.ucdavis.edu/files/197179.pdf
National Center for Home Food Preservation: nchfp.uga.edu/publications  
/publications_usda.html
154155RECIPES BY COUNTRY
C
China
Chili Oil, 134
Fermented White Tofu (Bai Fu Ru), 76–77
Pickled Peanuts (Lao Cu Huasheng), 141
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), 73
Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles, 27
Salt-Cured Eggs, 136–137
Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage 
(Suan Cai), 108–109
Sichuan Pickles (Pao Cai), 110
Spicy Bamboo Shoots in Chili Oil, 135
Spicy Smacked Cucumbers (Suan 
La Pai Huang Gua), 38–39
Sweet-and-Sour Chinese Mustard 
Cabbage Pickle, 30
I
India
Cilantro-Mint Chutney, 65
Fiery Lime Pickle (Nimbu Ka Achaar),  
70–71
Green Mango Pickle, 66–67
Honey-Pickled Chickpeas, 126
Lime Juice Pickle, 60–61
Mango Chutney, 63
Spiced Chickpea Pickle, 127
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango 
Sauce (Amba), 68–69
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
Indonesia
Indonesian Chile Paste (Sambal Oelek), 57
Indonesian Fruit Salad (Asinan Buah), 32
Mum’s Mixed Pickle (Acar Campur), 37
Shrimp Paste Sambal (Sambal Terasi),  
58–59
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles (Acar Kuning),  
34–35
Israel
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango 
Sauce (Amba), 68–69J
Japan
Citrus Chile Paste (Yuzu Kosho), 133
Fermented Yellow Radish (Takuan), 102–103
Miso-Cured Daikon (Misozuke), 29
Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, 114–115
Pickled Ginger (Gari), 42–43
Rice Bran Pickles (Nukazuke), 96–98
Salted Rice Koji Pickles (Shio Koji 
Asazuke), 104–105
Salt-Pickled Vegetables (Shiozuke), 48–49
Sesame Pickled Cabbage, 45
Seven Gods Curry Pickle 
(Fukujinzuke), 146–147
Soy-Pickled Bitter Melon, 132
Soy-Pickled Mushrooms, 33
Soy Sauce-Pickled Eggs (Shoyu Tamago), 128
Spicy Pickled Lotus Root, 47
K
Korea
Apple and Celery Kimchi, 122–123
Bitter Greens Kimchi, 100
Broccoli Rabe Kimchi, 94–95
Classic Cabbage Kimchi (Baechu 
Kimchi), 86–88
Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi 
(Dongchimi), 111
Easy Kimchi (Mak Kimchi), 90–91
Green Mango Pickle (Pa Kimchi), 89
Korean Red Pepper Paste (Gochujang), 80–81
Quick Cucumber Kimchi, 99
Red Vegetable Kimchi, 112–113
Sesame Zucchini Threads (Hobak Namul), 41
White Kimchi (Baek Kimchi), 92–93
M
Malaysia
Pineapple and Cucumber Relish 
(Acar Nenas Dan Timun), 31156 Recipes by CountryMyanmar
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing (Laphet 
Thoke), 130–131
Shan Pickles (Mon-Nyin Chin), 106–107
N
Nepal
Momo Sauce, 79
P
Philippines
Banana Ketchup, 74–75
Shredded Vegetable Pickles (Achara), 50–51
S
Singapore
Lemongrass Chile Sauce, 78
Pickled Green Chiles, 46
Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan Chile Paste (Katta Sambol), 72T
Taiwan
Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage 
(Suan Cai), 108–109
Sweet Cucumber Pickles (Hua Gua), 28
Thailand
Pickled Shallots, 129
Roasted Chile Jam (Nam Prik Pao), 56
Thai Sweet Chile Sauce, 62
V
Vietnam
Fermented Eggplant (Ca Phao Muoi),  
116–117
Pickled Bean Sprouts (Du’a Gia), 44
Pickled Daikon and Carrots (Do Chua), 26
Salty Limeade (Chanh Mu Ôˇi), 142
Sliced Papaya Pickles, 40
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant, 36157INDEX
A
Acar Campur, 37
Acar Kuning, 34–35
Acar Nenas Dan Timun, 31
Achara, 50–51
Altitude, 149–151
Amba, 68–69
Apple cider vinegar, 11
Apples
Apple and Celery Kimchi,  
122–123
White Kimchi, 92–93
Apricots
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), 73
Asafoetida, 12
Asian Pear and Fennel Pickles,  
124–125
Asinan Buah, 32
B
Bacteria, 3, 8
Baechu Kimchi, 86–88
Baek Kimchi, 92–93
Bai Fu Ru, 76–77
Bamboo Shoots in Chili Oil, Spicy, 135
Banana Ketchup, 74–75
Bean Sprouts, Pickled, 44
Beets
Red Vegetable Kimchi, 112–113
Bitter Greens Kimchi, 100
Bitter Melon, Soy-Pickled, 132
Brining, 2–3
Broccoli
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105
Broccoli Rabe Kimchi, 94–95
C
Cabbage. See also  Mustard cabbage
Classic Cabbage Kimchi, 86–88
Easy Kimchi, 90–91Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, 114–115
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Red Vegetable Kimchi, 112–113
Sesame Pickled Cabbage, 45
Sichuan Pickles, 110
White Kimchi, 92–93
Canning, 15–17, 149–151
Canning salt, 10
Ca Phao Muoi, 116–117
Carrots
Bitter Greens Kimchi, 100
Classic Cabbage Kimchi, 86–88
Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, 114–115
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37
Pickled Bean Sprouts, 44
Pickled Daikon and Carrots, 26
Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles, 27
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105
Salt-Pickled Vegetables, 48–49
Sesame Zucchini Threads, 41
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
Shan Pickles, 106–107
Shredded Vegetable Pickles, 50–51
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Cauliflower
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Celery
Apple and Celery Kimchi,  
122–123
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Chanh Mu Ôˇi, 142
Chayote, Pickled, 140
Chickpeas
Honey-Pickled Chickpeas, 126
Spiced Chickpea Pickle, 127158 IndexChiles, 11
Banana Ketchup, 74–75
Cilantro-Mint Chutney, 65
Honey-Pickled Chickpeas, 126
Indonesian Chile Paste, 57
Lemongrass Chile Sauce, 78
Mango Chutney, 63
Momo Sauce, 79
Pickled Bean Sprouts, 44
Pickled Green Chiles, 46
Pickled Shallots, 129
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Pineapple and Cucumber Relish, 31
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), 73
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Roasted Chile Jam, 56
Sesame Zucchini Threads, 41
Shredded Vegetable Pickles, 50–51
Shrimp Paste Sambal, 58–59
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Sliced Papaya Pickles, 40
Sri Lankan Chile Paste, 72
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant, 36
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce,  
68–69
Thai Sweet Chile Sauce, 62
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Chili Oil, 134
China, 120–121. See also  Recipes 
by Country Index
Chinese Five-Spice Pickled Grapes, 144–145
Chutneys
Mango Chutney, 63
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
Cilantro
Cilantro-Mint Chutney, 65
Momo Sauce, 79
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Citrus, 11
Citrus Chile Paste, 133
Classic Cabbage Kimchi, 86–88
Cucumbers, 11
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37
Pineapple and Cucumber Relish, 31Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles, 27
Quick Cucumber Kimchi, 99
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Salt-Pickled Vegetables, 48–49
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
Spicy Smacked Cucumbers, 38–39
Sweet Cucumber Pickles, 28
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Curing, 19
Curry leaves, 12
D
Daikon radishes
Classic Cabbage Kimchi, 86–88
Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi, 111
Fermented Yellow Radish, 102–103
Miso-Cured Daikon, 29
Pickled Daikon and Carrots, 26
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105
Salt-Pickled Vegetables, 48–49
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
White Kimchi, 92–93
Dates
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
White Kimchi, 92–93
Do Chua, 26
Dongchimi, 111
Du’a Gia, 44
E
Easy Kimchi, 90–91
Eggplants, 12
Fermented Eggplant, 116–117
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant, 36
Eggs
Salt-Cured Eggs, 136–137
Soy Sauce-Pickled Eggs, 128
Equipment, 14–15
F
Fennel and Asian Pear Pickles, 124–125
Fenugreek, 12
Fermentation, 2–3, 17–19
Fermented Eggplant, 116–117159 IndexFermented White Tofu, 76–77
Fermented Yellow Radish, 102–103
Fiery Lime Pickle, 70–71
Fish sauce, 13
Fukujinzuke, 146–147
G
Gari, 42–43
Ginger
Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, 114–115
Pickled Ginger, 42–43
Gochujang, 80–81
Gochujaru, 12
Grapes, Chinese Five-Spice Pickled, 144–145
Green beans
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105
Green Mango Pickle, 66–67
Green Onion Kimchi, 89
Greens
Bitter Greens Kimchi, 100
Shan Pickles, 106–107
H
Hobak Namul, 41
Honey-Pickled Chickpeas, 126
Hua Gua, 28
I
India, 54–55. See also  Recipes by Country Index
Indonesian Chile Paste, 57
Indonesian Fruit Salad, 32
J
Japan, 6–7. See also  Recipes by Country Index
Jicama
Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi, 111
Indonesian Fruit Salad, 32
Shredded Vegetable Pickles, 50–51
K
Kimchi
Apple and Celery Kimchi, 122–123
Bitter Greens Kimchi, 100
Broccoli Rabe Kimchi, 94–95
Classic Cabbage Kimchi, 86–88Daikon and Jicama Water Kimchi, 111
Easy Kimchi, 90–91
Green Onion Kimchi, 89
Red Vegetable Kimchi, 112–113
White Kimchi, 92–93
Kombu, 13
Korea, 84–85. See also  Recipes by Country Index
Korean Red Pepper Paste, 80–81
Kosher salt, 10
L
Lactofermentation, 2–3, 17–19
Lao Cu Huasheng, 141
Laphet Thoke, 130–131
Lemongrass
Lemongrass Chile Sauce, 78
Pickled Shallots, 129
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Lemons
Citrus Chile Paste, 133
Limes
Citrus Chile Paste, 133
Fiery Lime Pickle, 70–71
Lime Juice Pickle, 60–61
Salty Limeade, 142
Lotus root
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
Spicy Pickled Lotus Root, 47
M
Mak Kimchi, 90–91
Mangos, 12
Green Mango Pickle, 66–67
Indonesian Fruit Salad, 32
Mango Chutney, 63
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce,  
68–69
Mint-Cilantro Chutney, 65
Miso, 13
Miso-Cured Daikon, 29
Miso-Ginger Sauerkraut, 114–115
Misozuke, 29
Momo Sauce, 79
Mon-Nyin Chin, 106–107
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37160 IndexMushrooms
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Soy-Pickled Mushrooms, 33
Mustard cabbage
Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage, 108–109
Sweet-and-Sour Chinese Mustard 
Cabbage Pickle, 30
N
Nam Prik Pao, 56
Nimbu Ka Achaar, 70–71
Nukazuke, 96–98
Nutrients, 8
Nuts
Momo Sauce, 79
Pickled Peanuts, 141
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
White Kimchi, 92–93
o
Oil, 3
P
Pa Kimchi, 89
Pao Cai, 110
Papayas, 12
Shredded Vegetable Pickles, 50–51
Sliced Papaya Pickles, 40
Pastes
Citrus Chile Paste, 133
Indonesian Chile Paste, 57
Korean Red Pepper Paste, 80–81
Roasted Chile Jam, 56
Shrimp Paste Sambal, 58–59
Pears
Asian Pear and Fennel Pickles,  
124–125
White Kimchi, 92–93
Peppers
Broccoli Rabe Kimchi, 94–95
Citrus Chile Paste, 133
Mum’s Mixed Pickle, 37
Pickled Sweet Potatoes, 143
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105Shredded Vegetable Pickles,  
50–51
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
White Kimchi, 92–93
Pickled Bean Sprouts, 44
Pickled Chayote, 140
Pickled Daikon and Carrots, 26
Pickled Ginger, 42–43
Pickled Green Chiles, 46
Pickled Peanuts, 141
Pickled Shallots, 129
Pickled Sunchokes, 138
Pickled Sweet Potatoes, 143
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Pickles and pickling
defined, 2
health benefits, 8–9
history, 4
steps, 1
troubleshooting, 20
Pickling salt, 10
Pineapple
Indonesian Fruit Salad, 32
Pineapple and Cucumber Relish, 31
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), 73
Probiotics, 8
Produce, 11–12
Q
Quick Cucumber and Carrot Pickles, 27
Quick Cucumber Kimchi, 99
Quick pickles, 2
R
Radishes. See also  Daikon radishes
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Raisins
Mango Chutney, 63
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
Red Vegetable Kimchi, 112–113
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
Rice flour, 13
Rice vinegar, 11
Roasted Chile Jam, 56161 IndexS
Salt, 2–3, 9, 10
Salt-Cured Eggs, 136–137
Salted Rice Koji Pickles, 104–105
Salt-Pickled Mustard Cabbage, 108–109
Salt-Pickled Vegetables, 48–49
Salty Limeade, 142
Sambal Oelek, 57
Sambal Terasi, 58–59
Sauces
Banana Ketchup, 74–75
Lemongrass Chile Sauce, 78
Momo Sauce, 79
Plum Sauce (or Duck Sauce), 73
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce,  
68–69
Sea salt, 10
Sesame Pickled Cabbage, 45
Sesame Zucchini Threads, 41
Seven Gods Curry Pickle, 146–147
Shallots, Pickled, 129
Shan Pickles, 106–107
Shio Koji Asazuke, 104–105
Shiozuke, 48–49
Shoyu Tamago, 128
Shredded Vegetable Pickles, 50–51
Shrimp Paste Sambal, 58–59
Sichuan Pickles, 110
Sliced Papaya Pickles, 40
Smells and odors, 19
Southeast Asia, 24–25. See also  
Recipes by Country Index
Soy-Pickled Bitter Melon, 132
Soy-Pickled Mushrooms, 33
Soy sauce, 13
Soy Sauce-Pickled Eggs, 128
Spiced Chickpea Pickle, 127
Spices, 3, 12
Spicy Bamboo Shoots in Chili Oil, 135
Spicy Pickled Lotus Root, 47Spicy Smacked Cucumbers, 38–39
Sri Lankan Chile Paste, 72
Suan Cai, 108–109
Sugar, 3, 9
Sunchokes, Pickled, 138
Sweet-and-Sour Chinese Mustard 
Cabbage Pickle, 30
Sweet and Spicy Pickled Baby Eggplant, 36
Sweet Cucumber Pickles, 28
Sweet Potatoes, Pickled, 143
Sweet, Sour, and Spicy Mango Sauce, 68–69
T
Takuan, 102–103
Tea Leaf Dressing, Pickled, 130–131
Thai Sweet Chile Sauce, 62
Tofu, Fermented White, 76–77
Tomatoes
Momo Sauce, 79
Pickled Tea Leaf Dressing, 130–131
Tomato-Date Chutney, 64
Tools, 14–15
Troubleshooting, 20
Turmeric-Spiced Pickles, 34–35
Turnips
Rice Bran Pickles, 96–98
V
Vinegar, 2, 10–11
W
Water, 9
White Kimchi, 92–93
White vinegar, 11
Y
Yuzu Kosho, 133
Z
Zucchini Threads, Sesame, 41ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I’d like to express my gratitude to my editor Cecily McAndrews and developmental 
editor Caryn Abramowitz, for their keen eye for detail and unending patience 
on this project, as well as to the rest of the Callisto Media team for helping put 
together a beautiful book. 
Endless thanks and infinite hugs and kisses go to my husband Omar and 
my son Isaac for their unending support and patience while I worked on this 
project, and especially for putting up with the various smells that emanated from 
the kitchen. I’m thrilled to have raised a pickle-loving son who is my partner in 
kimchi-eating crime!ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Born in Indonesia and raised in Singapore,  
PAT TANUMIHARDJA  has been a food and 
lifestyle writer for almost two decades. An 
expert on pan-Asian cuisine, Pat enjoys melding 
traditional Asian culinary styles with modern 
sensibilities. Her cookbooks include Farm 
to Table Asian Secrets: Vegan and Vegetarian 
Full-Flavored Recipes for Every Season, The 
Asian Grandmothers Cookbook: Home Cooking 
from Asian American Kitchens , and Instant Pot 
Asian Pressure Cooker Meals: Fast, Fresh and 
Affordable . Pat lives in Springfield, Virginia, 
with her husband and son. Find Pat on Twitter: 
@ PicklesandTea, Instagram: @Pickles.and.Tea, 
and online: SmithsonianAPA.org/PicklesandTea.
