Contents
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
IntroductIon	 Ix
the	useful	recIpes
1.	 Breakfast	 1
Bircher muesli 2
Boiled eggs 4
French toast 5
Fruit salad 6
Hash brown potato 8
Omelette 10
Scrambled eggs 12
Slow-roasted tomatoes 14
Super fluffy pancakes 16
2.	d Ips	and	accompanIments	 19
Baba ghanouj 20
Caramelised onions 21
Chilli jam 22
Guacamole 24
Hummus 25
Mint jelly 26
Onion jam 28
Pesto 30
Pistou 32
Quince paste 33
Salsa verde 34
Tapenade 36
Tomato chutney 38
Tomato relish 40
Tomato jam 42
Tzatziki 43
3.	soups	 45
Cauliflower soup 46
Chicken and sweet corn soup 48Chicken soup with matzoh balls 50
Crab chowder 51
French onion soup 52
Gazpacho 54
Minestrone 56
Miso soup 58
Mushroom soup 59
Pea and ham soup 60
Potato and leek soup 61
Pumpkin soup 62
Seafood gumbo 64
Tomato soup 66
Vegetable and barley soup 68
4.	seafood	 71
Cooking whole fish 72
Crab cakes 74
Fish fillets, pan-fried 76
Fish pie 77
Garlic prawns 78
Prawn cocktail 80
Salmon patties 81
Salt and pepper squid 82
Seafood crepes 84
Tuna bake 86
5.	poultry	 89
Apricot chicken 90
Chicken Kiev 92
Chicken liver parfait 94
Crispy skin chicken breast 96
Peking duck 98
Roast chicken 100
Roast duck with cherry sauce 102
Roast turkey buffet 1046.  Meat  107
Baked ham 108
Barbecue-style spare ribs 110
Beef casserole 112
Beef stroganoff 114
Bolognaise sauce 116
Braised beef brisket 118
Braised lamb shanks 120
Chilli con carne 122
Corned beef 124
Cottage pie 126
Lasagne 128
Meat loaf 130
Moussaka 132
Osso buco 134
Rissoles 136
Roast beef 138
Roast lamb 140
Roast pork and crackling 142
San choy bao 144
Sausages and mash with pepper sauce 146
Steak and kidney pie 148
Thai beef salad 150
Veal schnitzel 152
7.  Vegetables  155
Baked potato in cream 156
Bubble-and-squeak 158
Corn on the cob 160
Pickled vegetables 162
Potato mash 164
Ratatouille 166
Roasted vegetables 168
Vegetable and noodle stir-fry 170
Vegetarian lasagne 172
Zucchini slice 174
8.  salads  177
Caesar salad 178
Chef’s salad 180
Coleslaw 182
Fattoush 184
Greek salad 186
Green salad 188
Niçoise salad 190Panzanella 192
Pasta salad 194
Potato salad 196
Rice salad 198
Tabbouleh 200
9.  grains and Pulses  203
Couscous with preserved lemon and saffron 204
Fried rice 206
Lentil burgers 208
Macaroni cheese 210
Firm polenta 212
Soft polenta 213
Risotto 214
Spaghetti carbonara (traditional, 
no cream recipe) 216
Spaghetti carbonara (westernised 
creamy version) 217
Spring rolls 218
10.    dressings,  sauces and butters  221
Savoury Sauces 222
Aïoli 222
Caesar dressing 224
Cocktail sauce 226
Garlic butter 227
Ginger soy 228
Hollandaise 229
Mayonnaise 230
Mee goring sauce 232
Napoli sauce 233
Pad Thai sauce 234
Red wine sauce 235
Plum sauce 236
Satay sauce 238
Shallot dressing 240
Sweet and sour sauce 241
Teriyaki sauce 242
Thai chilli sauce 243
White sauce 244
Vinaigrette 246
Yoghurt dressing 247
Sweet Sauces 248
Apple sauce 248
Butterscotch sauce 250
Caramel sauce 252Chocolate sauce 254
Raspberry sauce 256
11.  Desserts  259
Apple and rhubarb crumble 260
Apple pie 262
Apple strudel 264
Baked cheesecake 266
Baked quince 268
Baked ricotta cheesecake 270
Banana split 272
Brandy snaps 274
Bread and butter pudding 276
Bread and butter pudding with soy 277
Chocolate mousse 278
Chocolate self-saucing pudding 280
Christmas pudding 282
Crepes 284
Junket 286
Lemon delicious 288
Lemon meringue pie 290
Lemon tart 292
Pannacotta 294
Pavlova 296
Peach Melba 298
Pecan pie 300
Pumpkin pie 302
Queen of puddings 304
Raspberry fool 306
Stewed rhubarb 307
Rice pudding 308
Sticky date pudding 310
Summer pudding 312
Syrup pudding 314
Tiramisu 316
Trifle 318
Yoghurt and lemon mousse 320
Zabaglione 322
12.  Cakes, BisCuits anD Pastries  325
Almond bread 326
Anzac biscuits 328
Baklava 330
Bacon and egg pie 332
Banana bread 334
Banana cake 336Basic biscuits 338
Biscotti 340
Carrot cake 342
Cheese twists 344
Chocolate brownies 346
Chocolate crackles 347
Chocolate fudge 1 348
Chocolate fudge 2 349
Coconut ice 1 350
Coconut ice 2 350
Cupcakes 352
Devil’s food cake 354
Flourless chocolate cake 356
Flourless orange cake 358
Friands 360
Fruit cake 362
Fruit mince pies 364
Gingerbread people 366
Hedgehog 368
Honeycomb 369
Hot cross buns 370
Hummingbird cake 372
Lumberjack cake 373
Macaroons 374
Marshmallows 376
Melting moments 378
Meringues 380
Muffins 381
Nanaimo bars 382
Peanut brittle 384
Pecan biscuits 385
Pikelets 386
Praline 387
Quiche Lorraine 388
Raspberry cheesecake 390
Sausage rolls 392
Scones 394
Spanakopita 396
Sponge cake 398
Swiss roll 400
Tea cake 402
Toffee 403
Vanilla slice 404
13.  toPPings  407
Basic icing 408
Cream cheese frosting 409Devil’s chocolate frosting 410
Custard 411
Italian meringue 412
Lemon curd 414
Pastry cream 415
Marmalade 416
Strawberry jam 418
14.  Drinks  421
Banana smoothie 422
Eggnog 423
Hot chocolate 424
Lemon and ginger tea 425
Lemonade 426
Punch 427
15.  Basic r ecipes  429
Apple, prune and spice stuffing 430
Beer batter 432
Blini 434
Chicken stock 436
Clarified butter 438
Club sandwich 440
Crème fraîche 442
Croutons 443
Curry powder 444
Dashi stock 446
Fish stock 447
Fondue 448
Frittata 450
Garlic bread 452
Garlic confit 453
Lavosh 454
Nachos 456
Pasta dough 458
Sweet pastry 460
Sweet shortcrust pastry 461
Shortcrust pastry 462
Quick puff pastry 463
Choux pastry 464
Pizza dough 466
Preserved lemons 468
Sugar syrup 470
Vanilla sugar 471
Vegetable stock 472The really UsefUl i nformaTion
Avocados 476
Beans 476
Cheese 479
Chillies 480
Chocolate 480
Corn 484
Cream  484
Eggs 486
Fats 490
Fish 491
Flour 493
Herbs 497
Lemons 500
Meat 500
Mushrooms 505
Oil 505
Onions 507
Pasta  508
Pastry  509
Potatoes 510
Poultry 511
Quinces 515
Rice 515
Salt 519
Sauces 521
Seafood 523
Spices 527
Sugar 532
Tomatoes 536
Food allergies, intolerances and food 
additives 537
Basic pantry essentials 545
Essential kitchen equipment 546
Cooking techniques  549
Basic preserving 558
Conversion charts 561
The inDexes
recipe inDex  575
General inDex  579------------------------------------
1 .  B r e a k f a s t xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 2Bircher muesli
Serves 2
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 cup rolled oats
½ cup fresh orange juice
½ cup natural yoghurt
¼ cup currants or sultanas
¼ cup chopped dried apricots
pinch of ground nutmeg
large pinch of ground cinnamon1 Granny s mith apple, grated, to serve
2 tablespoons natural yoghurt, extra1 cup seasonal fresh berries, to serve
Method:
1. combine the oats, juice, yoghurt, currants or 
sultanas, chopped apricots, nutmeg and cinnamon in a large bowl and stir well. chill overnight.
2. To serve, stir in the grated apple, put into 
serving bowls and garnish with the extra yoghurt and the berries.Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
3 3* You will need— large 
bowl, vegetable peeler, 
grater, cup, liquid and spoon measures and a large spoon.
* When in season, 
passionfruit is a wonderful addition to bircher muesli, so try adding the pulp of  4 passionfruit to this recipe. If you cannot wait for the season to begin, use a small can of passionfruit pulp, readily available at the supermarket.
* There are many varied 
recipes for bircher muesli and it should be remembered that this recipe— like all 
recipes in this book— is just 
a guide and so the addition of a favourite ingredient or removal of any ingredients that are not so liked is easy and encouraged.
* For gluten intolerance, 
the use of ‘oat’ style cereals can be substituted. One in particular is made from rice-meal; however, like most foods that are a gluten substitute, the end result will certainly have a different texture, one which coeliacs are quite used to.* For a dairy-free option, 
simply replace the yoghurt with the same quantity of orange juice, or any other fruit juice, like apple, pineapple, mango, apricot or peach.
* Fruit yoghurts can be 
substituted for natural yoghurt, the only difference being that the end result will be just a bit sweeter.
* Any dried fruit can be 
substituted for the ones mentioned in the recipe, as long as the overall quantity for this recipe doesn’t exceed 
½ cup.
* Other spices that could be 
used in this recipe include mixed spice or allspice to replace the cinnamon and nutmeg. If no spices are on hand, simply omit from the recipe altogether.
* As much as bircher muesli 
is intended for breakfast, it makes for a great after-school snack for very hungry children.* Once made, store the 
muesli in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 2 days. Even though it may last up to 5 days, it does begin to break down too much by day 3 and is considered a fresh product once the orange juice is added.
* Mixing in freshly grated 
apple adds a refreshing crunch to the bircher muesli. Topping with yoghurt and berries is just one example of how to serve this dish. Serving a dollop of bircher muesli with cold milk is simple and still delicious. Chopped fresh banana or melons can replace the fresh berries.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 4-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Method:
1. There are many written methods for boiling an 
egg—see Hints and tips for why this one is the best.
2. Gently place room temperature eggs into a saucepan 
and cover with cold water by at least 5 cm.
3. Bring the water to the boil, then turn down to a 
barely recognisable simmer for 8 –10 minutes for hard-
boiled eggs. for the best results, the water should not be boiling. see Hints and tips for soft-boiled eggs.
4. remove from the water with a slotted spoon and drop 
into cold or iced water to stop the cooking. Boiled eggs in the shell will keep in the fridge for 7 days.
 
* You will need— saucepan 
and slotted spoon.
* As tempted as you are to 
drop eggs from the fridge 
into boiling water, stop now and read on. The main reason eggs crack when boiled is due to temperature difference. A cold egg cooked in hot water will most probably crack, and no amount of salt or vinegar in the water will prevent this. All salt and vinegar can hope to achieve is to quickly set the egg white that flows from a cracked egg. The other reason is that eggs cooked in a rapid boil are knocked about, causing the egg to crack.* The only reason why eggs 
are hard to peel once boiled is because they are very fresh. The fresher the egg, the harder it is to peel. The best eggs for boiling and then peeling are those that are about 2 weeks old. Keep the really fresh ones for poaching, frying or scrambling and for making cakes.
* For really soft eggs— both 
yolk and white— use the 
method mentioned, but remove the eggs after 2– 3 minutes 
instead of 10 minutes. These are also known as ‘coddled eggs’.* For soft yolks and set 
whites, cook for 5 minutes. For a medium cooked yolk, cook for 6– 7 minutes.
* All these times are 
approximations and much depends on the size of the egg, temperature of the egg and even the temperature of the water added in the beginning.Boiled eggs
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
hens’ eggs, room 
temperature
waterBreakfast 5-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------4 eggs
250 ml milk1 teaspoon ground cinnamon2 tablespoons caster sugar1 teaspoon vanilla essence150 g butter4 slices of sourdough 
bread or thickly sliced white bread (french bread stick and turkish bread will also work)
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, bread knife, weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, sauté pan or frying pan.
* French toast, like 
pancakes, is great for a special weekend breakfast. French toast is certainly much easier to prepare than pancakes and is a great place to start for beginner cooks.
* This dish is also known as 
‘eggy bread’ in the UK; and in France, it is known as ‘pain perdu’.* Cooking French toast in 
butter adds to the richness of the dish.
* Adding milk to the eggs 
is optional. Using just eggs mixed with the spices and sugar will give a richer and more eggy flavour.
* You could take 2 pieces 
of bread and sandwich sliced bananas or grated apple between them, then dip the sandwich in the egg mixture before frying.
* For a child’s birthday 
party, use star- or people-shaped cutters to cut shapes from the bread before cooking.
* Try serving French toast 
as a dessert instead of a breakfast dish.
* French toast is often 
served as a sweet dish but can work as a savoury alternative. Try replacing the cinnamon, vanilla and sugar with 1 cup grated parmesan cheese and salt and pepper to taste. Dip the bread in the egg mixture before cooking.French toast
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. Place the eggs, milk, cinnamon, sugar and vanilla 
essence in a bowl and whisk.
2. Heat a frying pan or the flat plate of a barbecue 
(on lowest setting) and melt the butter. soak each slice of bread in the egg mixture until wet through.
3. Place the soaked bread in the pan or on the flat 
plate and cook until golden brown. turn and cook the other side. It is important to cook on a low–medium setting so the egg mixture cooks and sets, rather than cooking on a higher heat which will burn the outside and leave the inside soggy.
4. Once cooked, transfer to a plate and serve with 
your choice of toppings—bacon, maple syrup, honeycomb butter, fresh berries, ice-cream or lemon and sugar—or simply eat it on its own.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 6¼ rockmelon (cantaloupe), peeled and seeds removed
¼ pineapple, peeled and cored
1 apple, peeled and cored
2 bananas, peeled1 cup green grapes, washed2 passionfruitnatural yoghurt, to serve
Method:
1. cut the rockmelon, pineapple, apple and banana into 
roughly 2-cm pieces.
2. Mix all the fruit in a bowl then serve with fresh, 
natural yoghurt.
3. store the fruit salad (without the yoghurt) in an 
airtight container for up to 2 days.Fruit salad
Serves 4xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxBreakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
7* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, peeler, 
paring knife, cup measure, bowl and storage container.
* This is the most basic 
fruit salad recipe and can therefore be adapted to any fruit, but please consider the following tips.
* When cutting fruit, it is 
recommended that all fruit is cut the same size, but not necessarily the same shape. This means fruit can be cut into large pieces, about  5 cm, or into small pieces, 1 cm or less— but don’t be 
tempted to mix the two sizes as it will look odd, and the smaller pieces can become damaged and mushy from the size and weight of the  larger pieces.
* Never be tempted to add 
many fruits to a fruit salad to make it impressive. Sometimes a combination of  3 well-matched fruits is better than having a mixture of 10.
* Fruit salad is best eaten 
on the day or, at the very latest, the next day. Some fruits will certainly last longer; however, once mixed, some soft fruits will rapidly break down.* Bananas, being a very soft 
fruit, should only be added just before serving. Once mixed and then stored, banana in a fruit salad will begin to soften quickly and become brown and mushy, making a great fruit salad look unappetising the next day.
* Think about matching hard 
fruits (as in the recipe) or soft fruits (as in the examples below).
* Melon fruit salad— a mix 
of equal parts watermelon, rockmelon and honeydew.
* Mixed berry and mango 
salad—once in season, make 
the most of fresh berries and counter their tartness by adding a mango cut into small pieces.
* Pineapple, papaya and mint 
salad—mix ½ pineapple,  
1 pink papaya (peeled and black seeds removed) and  
¼ cup shredded mint.
* Citrus fruit salad— 
4 oranges, 6 mandarins,  2 pink grapefruit and 1 lime (mint would go well with  this salad).* Banana, strawberry and 
passionfruit salad— 3 bananas, 300 g strawberries and 3 passionfruit (the passionfruit will prevent  the banana from browning).
* Strawberry, grape 
and mango salad— 500 g 
strawberries (hulled and quartered), 500 g green grapes (washed) and 3 mangoes (cut into 2-cm pieces).
* Tropical fruit salad—
make use of any tropical fruits like papaya, lychee, mango, longan, dragon fruit, pineapple, star apples, carambola (star fruit), chocolate pudding fruit, mangosteen and bananas.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 8HasH brown potato
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g (about 2 large) potatoes
2 tablespoons vegetable or canola oil2 tablespoons buttersalt and pepper, to taste
Method:
1. scrub the potatoes—they do not need to be 
peeled—then coarsely grate. squeeze the grated potato slightly to remove some of its water (this makes for a crispier end result).
2. heat a 30-cm frying pan, preferably nonstick, over 
medium–high heat. add the oil and butter.
3. When hot, add the potatoes and push down with a 
spatula to spread evenly in the bottom of the pan. sprinkle the top with salt and pepper. cook until the bottom is browned and crispy, about 10 minutes. Do not try to flip until it is browned, or the potatoes might stick.
4. flip the hash brown, cut into sections if 
necessary, and cook another 10 minutes, or until browned and crispy on the other side.
5. serve immediately, or cool and simply reheat in the 
microwave or preferably in a hot oven (210°c) for  5 minutes.Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
9* You will need— grater, 
bowl, weight and spoon 
measures, nonstick frying  pan and spatula.
* There are many different 
styles of hash browns. This recipe is about as easy and as fast as they come— and 
is, in fact, that of a Swiss potato dish called ‘Potato rosti’. Other recipes suggest boiling and mixing the potato with all kinds of ingredients— they’re not 
wrong. So the term ‘hash brown’ becomes quite loose, especially when made with sweet potato or even carrots.
* A standard supermarket 
potato is all that is required, this usually means a Sebago, Coliban or Nadine.
* To avoid discolouration 
of the grated potato, work quickly and squeeze the moisture out as soon as possible. If making a large batch, keep the grated potato in water until ready to assemble, then be sure to thoroughly squeeze out all the water before cooking.
* If using a nonstick pan, 
the use of oil and butter can be eliminated to reduce fats in the diet.* For a variation, after 
squeezing excess moisture from the grated potato,  try adding 1 egg yolk,  1 onion (finely chopped) and 
¼ teaspoon hot (or mild) 
paprika. Instead of paprika, 
½ teaspoon of finely chopped 
herbs like rosemary or sage marry well with potato.
* Or add the kernels from 
a cob of corn to the recipe with 1 tablespoon chopped parsley, 
½ red capsicum 
(chopped) and 1 fresh red chilli (chopped). Then top this with Guacamole and bacon.
* Once cooked, top regular 
hash browns with crispy bacon then grated cheese and finish in a hot oven for 5 minutes.
* Remember, if using a 
nonstick pan, use a plastic spatula not a knife to flip the hash brown and cut it.
* Here’s an easy way to flip 
the whole hash brown: slide the hash brown out of the pan and onto a plate. Invert the pan over the plate and the hash brown and turn the whole thing over together. The browned part is now on top.* A large disk of hash brown 
can be used as a pizza base for those with wheat and gluten intolerance— simply 
top with all your favourite pizza goodies.
* When cooking individual 
hash browns, do not overcrowd the pan at the risk of the hash browns sticking together as they cook and tearing apart as they are turned.
* Individual hash browns 
can be used as a base for eggs Benedict, instead of an English muffin; in which case it becomes quite a different dish, especially if ham is replaced with smoked salmon—yum! This is especially good for those with wheat and gluten intolerance.
* For a cocktail party or 
dinner party, cook small hash browns then top with smoked salmon and crème fraîche, or trout dip and chives, or sour cream and salmon roe, or simply mayonnaise and capers.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 10Omelette
Serves 1
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons warm waterlarge pinch of salt flakespinch of ground white pepper2 tablespoons butter1 teaspoon olive oil
Method:
1. combine the egg, water, salt and pepper in a bowl 
and whisk until well combined. The water evaporates as the omelette cooks making it light and fluffy.
2. Place a nonstick frying pan over medium–high heat, 
add the butter and olive oil and heat until the butter begins to bubble without browning.
3. add the egg mixture to the pan. as the egg begins 
to set, use a rubber or plastic spatula to move the egg from the outer part of the pan to the middle, to allow the uncooked egg to fill any exposed parts of the pan.
4. When half-cooked and still runny on top, add any 
flavours you like (some ideas are listed opposite) and continue to cook until set or better still cook the top of the omelette under the grill section of the oven. This will only take 1–2 minutes.
5. remove from the heat and shake the pan to loosen 
the omelette from the base of the pan. shake the omelette to one side, tilting so that the top third can be folded over, and then turn onto a plate.Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
11* You will need —cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
spoon measures, whisk, spatula, shallow frying or sauté pan or crepe pan.
* This recipe is a classic 
French-style omelette which means it is folded as it is served. Another version is the Spanish omelette which  is not folded, but served flat from the pan. Fans of the Spanish omelette have been known to cook their omelette in a shallow terracotta baking dish, eating it straight from the dish.
* A simple mixture of 
chopped fresh herbs can be added to the egg mixture.  A quantity no more than  1 tablespoon of chopped herbs like parsley, thyme, sage, oregano, mint, chervil or tarragon can be used in any combination.
* Bacon, spinach and goat’s 
cheese omelette— 1 rasher of 
bacon (chopped and fried), 1 cup spinach (chopped and wilted by cooking it in the pan after the bacon), and  
¼ cup goat’s cheese 
(crumbled). Loosely mix all ingredients in a bowl, ready to place in the middle of the half-cooked omelette. The goat’s cheese can be replaced with fetta, ricotta, brie or grated cheddar.* Mushroom, tomato and 
spinach omelette— 1 cup 
sliced Swiss brown mushrooms (cooked in 2 tablespoons olive oil), 1 ripe tomato (peeled, de-seeded and chopped), and 1 cup spinach (chopped and wilted by cooking it in the pan after the mushrooms). Loosely mix all the ingredients in a bowl, ready to place in the middle of the half-cooked omelette. Fresh tomato can be replaced with 
¼ cup semi- or 
sun-dried tomatoes. Spinach can be replaced with rocket. Mushrooms can be replaced with grilled artichoke hearts.
* Try other fillings like 
some of the combinations mentioned in the hints and tips list for frittata.
* An omelette is considered 
a benchmark for any good chef, a sign of solid training and of a good understanding of the basics. In some kitchens, fail the omelette test and you fail to get the job. Domestic cooks need not place so much pressure on themselves, just remember practice makes perfect.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 124–6 eggs (depending on size)
2 tablespoons thick cream (35 per cent fat)
salt and freshly ground pepper, to taste75 g butterchopped chives, to garnish
Method:
1. in a bowl, crack the eggs, add the cream and season 
with salt and pepper.
2. Whisk lightly with a fork—the whites and yolks 
don’t have to be completely mixed and the mixture should contain some air; over-whisking the mixture expels the air and makes for heavier scrambled eggs.
3. Melt the butter in a heavy-based nonstick pan over 
medium heat. When the butter begins to bubble, add the egg mixture and reduce heat to low. as it begins to cook and thicken, fold the thicker bits towards the centre of the pan—uncooked egg will moat around the cooked egg. repeat this process until the eggs are close to ready but still a little runny, then remove from the heat and move the mixture once or twice more as the heat of the pan will complete the cooking.
4. serve immediately—scrambled eggs become tough and 
dry if you attempt to keep them warm. Garnish with the chives or other fresh green herbs.Scrambled eggS
Serves 2xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxBreakfast 13 Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* You will need— bowl, whisk 
or fork, weight measure, 
silicon spatula and nonstick pan.
* For great tasting eggs, 
try to source eggs from a farmers market or at the very least use free range eggs.
* The degree to which people 
like their eggs cooked—whether scrambled, poached, fried or boiled— can vary 
greatly. However, the two most common are runny and hard. This is very true when making scrambled eggs, so as much as this recipe calls for the eggs to be just set, some may feel it necessary to cook them to within an inch of dust; this is completely up to the individual. Expect that in restaurants eggs should always be ‘just’ cooked, and it is up to the customer to express ‘firm’ or ‘well done’ when ordering.
* If cooking scrambled 
eggs for more than 2, then unfortunately it becomes a lengthy process. Too many serves in one pan, although achievable, will create havoc with overcrowding, possibly causing much spillage. Also, it would mean the eggs are exposed to heat for a longer period, meaning that while some parts of the eggs are not cooked, other parts are beginning to overcook, become rubbery and then watery.
* Cooking scrambled eggs 
on a high heat can be done; however, there is the risk of browning parts of the eggs and leaving unsightly spots throughout the mixture. Also, eggs are a delicate protein that do not respond well to high heat.
* Adding cream— as this 
recipe suggests— results 
in very smooth, creamy and decadent scrambled eggs. Replacing the cream with milk or low fat milk can be done, but be very careful not to overcook the eggs as it will toughen the mixture and leave you with a heavily weeping mass of tough egg curds and watery milky whey as the proteins in milk also overcook and coagulate.
* For lactose intolerance, 
use 2 tablespoons of water instead of cream or milk—again, so long as the mixure is only just cooked, this version of scrambled eggs can still be quite amazing. Water added to scrambled egg mixture can create fluffy eggs as the water begins to steam the beaten eggs.
* Surprising as this may 
seem, serving scrambled eggs for an entrée at a dinner party can be quite a hit. A regular serve of scrambled eggs (2 eggs per person) plus some smoked salmon and a small green salad is a very acceptable way to begin a meal.
* For an extra special 
treat, just as the eggs  are nearly ready, add  1 tablespoon mascarpone cheese or crème fraîche or  2 tablespoons goat’s cheese. Stir once or twice and serve.
* This recipe for scrambled 
eggs can be slightly undercooked and then poured onto 2 tortillas. Top each one with 
¼ avocado and a 
slice of good ham then roll like a burrito, place on a tray and top with a small handful of grated tasty cheese. Bake in a hot oven (210°C) for 5 minutes. Breakfast Burrito! Tabasco sauce or a fresh salsa made of 1 fresh tomato (chopped), 
½ red onion (chopped), 
2 tablespoons chopped coriander, salt and pepper, and 1 tablespoon extra virgin olive oil will finish this breakfast or brunch meal.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 14Slow-roaSted tomatoeS
Serves 4–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
8 roma or vine-ripened tomatoes
3 tablespoons olive oil
2 tablespoons salt flakes1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 110ºc.2. slice the tomatoes in half and place, cut side up, 
on a baking tray lined with baking paper.
3. Brush or drizzle with the olive oil. sprinkle with 
the salt and pepper.
4. roast in the oven for 3 hours.5. remove from the oven, cool and keep refrigerated, 
covered, for up to 5 days.Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
15* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
measure, baking tray and baking paper.
* These tomatoes freeze well 
for up to 2 months.
* Try adding 2 thinly sliced 
garlic cloves, placed on the tomatoes, before roasting.
* The marriage of basil and 
tomato is perfect, so try adding 6 basil leaves. You can also use other herbs like oregano, parsley, mint or thyme. Chop the herbs finely and sprinkle over the tomatoes before roasting.
* Finely chop 4 shallots 
or 1 small brown onion and sprinkle over tomatoes before roasting. Shallots are favoured over onions as they tend to be less pungent, but they are a bit more fiddly to peel and chop.
* Roasted tomatoes are 
fantastic with breakfast, in a salad, chopped into a frittata, served with roasted or grilled meats, or on a mezze or antipasto platter.
* Once cooked, drizzle 
tomatoes with balsamic vinegar and scatter with goat’s cheese; serve with a simple salad or as a side dish.* To use with pasta— peel 
skins from the roasted tomatoes and place in a food processor, then blitz to make a simple yet full-flavoured passata (fine tomato sauce). Homemade tomato sauce is an indispensable ingredient in any kitchen, especially for beginner cooks looking for an easy meal.
* For good storage of the 
roasted tomato sauce— place 
the hot puree in sterilised jars and seal with a lid. The heat from the sauce will create a vacuum while cooling.
* For a juicier sauce, try 
cooking the tomatoes at a higher temperature for a shorter time. Preheat the oven to 170ºC and roast for 1
½ hours until softened. 
These tomatoes are less intense but still very tasty; try grilling or pan frying when reheating, or simply puree to use as pasta sauce.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 16Super fluffy pancakeS
Serves 7 children and 2 adults
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
750 ml milk or buttermilk
8 eggs, separatedfew drops of vanilla essence (optional)600 g self-raising flour100 g caster sugarabout 125 g unsalted butter, for cooking
Method:
1. in one bowl, mix the milk or buttermilk and egg 
yolks, whisking until the egg yolks are combined. at this point the vanilla essence can be added, if using.
2. Place the egg whites in a second, large bowl, ready 
for whisking.
3. in a third large bowl, sift the flour and sugar, 
making a well in the centre. Pour the milk mixture into the centre of the flour/sugar mixture and begin combining with a wooden spoon, slowly drawing in the flour to form a thick batter. Do not worry if the mixture is excessively lumpy. By not whisking the milk mixture into the flour, you ensure that the flour is not overworked thereby tightening the batter—also, the lumps NeVer appear in the final pancakes.
4. Whisk the egg whites until soft peaks form then 
fold into the batter.
5. cover and allow to rest in the fridge for 1 hour—
although i’m unbelievably impatient and usually cook them straightaway.
6. cooking them requires the use of a large frying pan 
(or barbecue flat plate if you’re a large family) set on low–medium heat. add a good knob of the butter and melt. spoon in the pancake mixture according to your preferred size. When bubbles begin to appear evenly on the surface, turn over. The second side will only require 1–2 minutes to cook.Breakfast-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
17* You will need —3 bowls, 
whisk or electric beaters, 
large spoon, egg flip or spatula, frying pan, butter knife, weight and liquid measures.
* This super fluffy pancake 
recipe takes a little extra time and uses 3 bowls. Do not shy away, as the results are sensational.
* The mixture can be halved 
as it makes a very large batch (enough for my  7 children and us parents). Any leftover batter will last until the next day; after that, however, the egg whites will begin to lose their bubbles and the mixture will become grey and lifeless.
* Toppings can range from 
the usual suspects— maple 
syrup, lemon and sugar, grilled banana or fresh berries— to the more exotic, 
poached rhubarb, blueberries in vanilla syrup, confit pineapple or honeycomb butter— all of which love 
ice-cream!* Leftover mixture can 
also be cooked into smaller pancakes, refrigerated and used in school lunch boxes the next day.
* Whisking the egg whites 
is entirely optional. The egg whites certainly do make a difference, giving the pancakes a ‘light as air’ texture. But time and washing up permitting, simply beat the whole eggs into the milk and stir the wet mixture into the dry mixture. Remember to not overwork the batter.
* Cooking the pancakes in 
butter gives the edges of the pancakes a crisp, frilly side which is a delight to eat and a great contrast to the soft, fluffy centre.------------------------------------
2 .  D i p s and Accompaniments xxxxx xxxxx
------------------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 20-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------BaBa ghanouj
Makes 4 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, knife, fork, weight 
and spoon measures, 2 bowls, spoon and food processor (optional).
* Pricking the eggplant all 
over allows the heat to reach the centre and it will cook more evenly.
* Cooking the eggplant over 
a naked flame imparts a very smoky flavour to the dip. This flavour can be too strong for some palates. The eggplants can be pricked and then roasted in the oven at 220ºC until completely soft, then continue as per the method given.
* Baba ghanouj as a dip 
should be drizzled with excellent extra virgin olive oil and a few grinds of fresh pepper.
* Baba ghanouj is fantastic 
served with meats instead of a sauce. It’s especially good with grilled pork and lamb cutlets.* As a spread on rolls 
and flat bread with roasted vegetables, cold roast meats and salads, baba ghanouj is a healthy alternative to butter or margarine.
* This recipe should yield 
enough dip for 10 people when served on its own with crusty bread and vegetable batons.
* Refrigerated, baba ghanouj 
will last up to 7 days. Before serving, bring to room temperature to enhance the flavours.2 medium eggplants
1 garlic clove, crushedjuice of 1 lemon100 g tahini300 g natural yoghurt
¼ teaspoon allspice
salt flakes and freshly 
ground pepper, to tasteMethod:
1. Prick the eggplants all over with a fork.2. Place each over a naked gas flame, set to medium. 
cook for 5–7 minutes, turning constantly until blistered and blackened. alternatively, this can be done on the barbecue grill but will take much longer.
3. eggplants are cooked when very soft to press. Place 
in a bowl and cover with plastic wrap.
4. When cool enough to handle, drain excess liquid and 
gently remove skin with a small knife. allow the skin to come away from the flesh without force (any flesh coming off with the skin will have a bitter flavour).
5. in a bowl, mash the eggplant pulp with a fork or 
place in a food processor and mash using the pulse button. Drain well, discarding any juice from the eggplant.
6. combine the remaining ingredients in a bowl, add 
the eggplant and mix well.Dips anD accompaniments 21-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Caramelised onions
Makes about 1 cup
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, liquid measure, roasting tray, saucepan and wooden spoon.
* Keep onions in the 
fridge— this is the best way 
to avoid crying when cutting the onion. The cold of the fridge subdues the substance known as ‘allicin’ which is produced when the onion is cut into.
* Don’t confuse caramelised 
onions with onion jam. Caramelised onion refers to the browning or ‘caramelisation’ of the sugars that are naturally present in onions. Onion jam, you will notice, is made with sugar.* Even though red or brown 
onions are called for in this recipe, purple onions, white onions, pickling onions and even shallots will make good alternatives.
* Adding fresh herbs is a 
nice option. To the above recipe, try adding in the beginning 1 sprig rosemary or 2 sprigs thyme. Or add 1 bay leaf and 5 black peppercorns.
* Caramelised onions have 
a wide variety of uses. For breakfast, they make a great addition to any fry-up. Even spread on toast with a few pieces of grilled bacon or avocado for a simple breakfast idea. Try also adding to an omelette.
* For lunch, use the onions 
in a roll or sandwich— or 
as an accompaniment to an antipasto plate with goat’s cheese, olives, roasted garlic and toasted flat bread. Mix some caramelised onion in a quiche or frittata.
* At dinner, any time a 
roast or grilled meats are to be served, use caramelised onions as an alternative to mustard and sauce. They also marry brilliantly with roasted vegetables, grilled vegetable salad, or leftover vegetables that have been made into bubble-and-squeak for breakfast the next day. Mix into pasta dishes just before serving or spread over a pizza base. Probably the most famous way of serving caramelised onions is with gravy, grilled sausages and mashed potato; and they are great to serve with sausages and mash with pepper sauce.100 ml olive oil
3 red or brown onions, 
peeled and slicedmethod:
1. Heat the oil in a heavy-based saucepan over  
medium heat.
2. add the onion and cook until beginning to wilt. 
Reduce the heat to low and continue to cook for a further 20 minutes, stirring frequently to avoid the onions sticking to the base of the pan.
3. once golden in colour, remove from the pan and 
cool. store in a sealed container or jar in the refrigerator. caramelised onions will last 5–7 days covered and refrigerated.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 22Chilli jam
Makes about 4 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 red capsicums
6 tomatoes100 ml olive oil2 garlic cloves, minced8 long red chillies, sliced in half lengthways, seeds 
removed and chopped
100 ml malt vinegar300 g brown sugar2 teaspoons salt
Method:
1. Place capsicums on a roasting tray lined with 
baking paper and bake at 250ºc, turning every  5 minutes until the capsicums are blackened on all sides. remove from the oven and place in a bowl to cool before peeling.
2. Peel the tomatoes while the capsicums are roasting. 
Bring a saucepan of water to the boil. With a small kitchen knife or paring knife, remove the tomato stem area. score the opposite end of the tomato with a criss-cross pattern. cook the tomatoes in the boiling water for 20 seconds. remove, cool slightly and peel off the skins. slice the tomatoes in half (between the top and bottom) then, using a teaspoon, remove the seeds. chop roughly and set aside.
3. Peel the capsicums and discard any seeds and stem. 
chop into small pieces.
4. heat a heavy-based saucepan over medium heat and 
add the olive oil.
5. add the garlic and chilli and fry gently for  
1 minute.
6. add the chopped capsicum and tomato and cook for  
5 minutes.Dips anD accompaniments 23-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
* You will need —cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife or small kitchen knife, roasting tray, baking paper, heavy-based saucepan, weight, spoon and liquid measures and a wooden spoon.
* Peeling the capsicum and 
tomato may seem like a lot of work, and it is a step that could be skipped; however, it is important as both capsicum and tomato skin do not break down when cooked and stay stringy and chewy in the jam if not removed.
* To skip roasting, 
peeling and de-seeding the capsicum, simply buy 300 g roasted capsicum from a good delicatessen and roughly chop before adding to the recipe.
* 6 large whole tomatoes 
will yield about 600 g peeled and de-seeded tomato.method cont.
7. add the vinegar, sugar and salt, cook on medium 
heat for 15 minutes, then reduce the heat slightly and cook until the jam has thickened.
8. pour into a sterilised jar (if storing), cool, 
cover and refrigerate. if using immediately and often, store in a jar or plastic container with a lid and keep refrigerated.
* It may seem strange 
that there is lots of 
capsicum and tomato in a dish called chilli jam. Fortunately, capsicum, tomato and chilli are all from the ‘nightshade’ family of plants with the first 2 ingredients adding body to the jam. Chilli on its own, as a jam, would be too strong and would require too much mucking around to get enough even for a small jar.
* The chilli heat in 
this recipe is very mild, therefore if you require some real chilli kick in your jam, add 4–8 bird’s eye chillies to the recipe, preparing them the same way as the long red chillies but being extra careful in handling the smaller hot chillies. After handling small hot chillies and even after washing your hands, there will be chilli residue on your hands for an hour or more—so be careful. Try washing your hands with straight lemon juice—it will help.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 24-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Guacamole
Makes about 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, sharp cook’s knife, 
bowl, cup measure, spoon and fork.
* This is the most basic 
and original recipe for guacamole. Adding other ingredients is a matter of taste. Following is a more recognised recipe which can have all or just some of the mentioned ingredients mixed into the basic recipe: 2 fresh tomatoes (finely chopped), 
½ onion (finely 
chopped), 1 bird’s eye chilli (finely chopped) and 2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh coriander.* Use basic guacamole 
instead of butter or margarine on salad sandwiches.
* Use with nachos as an 
alternative to sour cream.
* Serve as part of an 
antipasto platter.
* To refrigerate, cover 
with a film of plastic wrap to prevent browning— it will 
keep for about a week.
* If you want the guacamole 
to be of a thicker consistency, add 
¼–½ cup of 
fresh breadcrumbs.
* For a smoother 
consistency, blend in a food processor.* Lime juice can be 
substituted for lemon juice.
* You can stir through 
cottage cheese or sour cream for a variation.2 ripe avocados
½ cup lemon juice
saltMethod:
1. carefully cut each avocado down to the seed using a 
sharp knife. Turn the avocado around the blade of the knife to cut it in half lengthways. Twist the halves in opposite directions, lifting as you twist to reveal two halves, one with the seed still attached. To remove the seed, give it a short, sharp chop with the knife; this will bury the blade a few millimetres into the seed’s woody surface. Twist the knife and the seed is free.
2. scoop the flesh from the skin using a spoon. Place 
in a bowl and mash with a fork, keeping it quite chunky.
3. add the lemon juice and salt to taste.Dips anD accompaniments 25-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
pot, weight and spoon measures, food processor, plastic spatula and bowl.
* When simmering the 
chickpeas, to prevent foam forming on the water’s surface, add 1 tablespoon vegetable oil to the water before it comes to the boil.
* The older the chickpeas 
the longer the cooking time.
* Once cooked, the chickpeas 
can be placed in cold water so the loose skins float to the top.
* When soaking and cooking 
dried chickpeas, it is worth remembering they double in weight and size.
* Canned chickpeas can be 
used as a substitute for the dried variety; be careful when seasoning because the canned varieties are already salted.
* Do not salt the water when 
cooking, this will toughen the chickpeas.
* Use hummus as a dip or as 
a spread in rolls, flat breads and sandwiches.
* When serving as a dip, 
drizzle with extra virgin olive oil and sprinkle with a few pinches of paprika.
* As an alternative to extra 
virgin olive oil, drizzle with olive oil infused with basil or chilli.* Try adding 2 teaspoons 
ground cumin to the hummus.
* Hummus can be served warm 
as is traditional in the east of Turkey. In fact hummus is the Arab word for chickpea.
* Dried chickpeas can be 
soaked and cooked a couple of days in advance and kept in the fridge.
* Cooked chickpeas can be 
frozen.
* Changing the water once it 
has reached the boil reduces intestinal gas because the indigestible sugars which cause the gas dilute in the water.
* Store dried chickpeas in 
an airtight container for no more than 1 year.Hummus
Makes about 600 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g dried chickpeas
1 litre cold water6 tablespoons tahini4 garlic cloves, crushedjuice of 4 lemonssaltmethod:
1. place the chickpeas in a large container and cover 
with the water. soak overnight.
2. Drain the chickpeas, place in a large pot, and add 
enough fresh cold water to cover by 10 cm. simmer until tender, about 1 hour.
3. Remove from the heat and drain, keeping some of the 
cooking water.
4. process the chickpeas, tahini, garlic and lemon 
juice in a food processor, adding just enough of the cooking liquid to bring the mixture to a creamy consistency. season with salt to taste.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 26Mint jelly
Makes about 1 litre
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg Granny s mith apples
500 ml water
½ bunch mint, washed and chopped with the stalks
1 cup cider vinegar
white sugar
Method:
1. roughly chop the apples; leave the skin on and do 
not core.
2. Place the apples, water and mint in a saucepan over 
medium heat and cook gently until the apples are soft and pulpy, about 20 minutes.
3. add the vinegar, remove the pan from the heat and 
mash the apples with a potato masher.
4. set up a pot with a colander or large strainer 
lined with muslin cloth sitting on top. Pour the apple mixture into the cloth-lined strainer and leave to drain overnight—do not squeeze the mixture unless a cloudy jelly doesn’t worry you.
5. Measure the strained juice and pour into a saucepan 
then add an equal quantity of sugar. Place the pan over medium heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Bring to the boil and use a spoon to remove any scum forming on the surface. simmer for 15 minutes or until the temperature reaches 103–105ºc on a sugar thermometer.
6. Pour into 4 x 300-ml hot sterilised jars, and allow 
to cool before sealing. The jelly will continue to set over a few days. keeps in a cool dry place for 1 year. once opened, refrigerate.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
27* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
saucepan, cup, weight and liquid measures, potato masher, wooden spoon, colander, muslin cloth, 4 x 300-ml preserving jars and lids and sugar thermometer.
* It’s important to 
understand that homemade mint jelly does not look like the commercially prepared stuff. Homemade is more of a golden amber colour, not bright green. Bright green can be achieved by adding a few drops of green food colouring and 1 teaspoon dried mint to give that ‘real’ mint effect to the jelly.
* There is never any need to 
peel or core fruit such as apples when making a jelly, this adds to the flavour and helps to make the jelly set. See Basic preserving.
* Although the sugar and 
vinegar preserve the jelly, the biggest risk is mould. Keeping the jelly at room temperature for 1 year can be done, but if this makes you nervous, then store it in the refrigerator. Once opened, all preserves must be refrigerated.* Several things may have 
an effect on the jelly not setting. 1. Not enough pectin in the fruit— tart apples, 
like Granny Smiths, are required due to the higher amount of pectin than sweet eating apples. 2. The amount of sugar— sugar helps the 
jelly set, therefore the ratio of sugar to liquid must be right. 3. Evaporation—simmering the liquid at the end needs to be done long enough so the required amount of water evaporates, leaving the right proportion of sugar to liquid; this is why a sugar thermometer is used.
* Sometimes a jelly will 
not have set when everything seems to have gone right; to try to remedy this, bring back to the boil and add some cream of tartar or lemon juice.
* A clear jelly can only be 
achieved by the undisturbed straining of the fruit puree. Force it through and the jelly will be cloudy.
* A very firm jelly may 
‘weep’, sometimes seen in homemade jams and jellies given out by relatives. This weeping is a result of too much acid being added to the mixture.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 28OniOn jam
Makes about 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 g white sugar
50 ml water2 large onions, finely diced100 ml portsalt
Method:
1. Place the sugar in a pan and add just enough water 
to soften. Bring to the boil then allow to simmer until it is quite dark in colour—this is the caramel.
2. add the onion immediately, followed by the port 
(being careful not to have it splatter on you), then stir to combine the ingredients. at this stage, the caramel may form clumps; do not panic as these will dissolve.
3. season with the salt.4. reduce the heat slightly and simmer until the onion 
is thoroughly cooked and takes on a dark brown colour. have water by the pan as the jam tends to lose all of its liquid before it is ready, so add a little more to keep it moist.
5. once thick and fragrant, remove from the heat. 
onion jam can be served warm or chilled and will store, covered, in the refrigerator for 4–6 weeks.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
29* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
and liquid measures, saucepan and wooden spoon.
* Onion jam is great with 
chicken or duck liver pâté and any meat terrines as well as with roast beef or lamb.
* Onion jam is fantastic 
served with very ripe brie or camembert. For a more basic taste, whip some room temperature cream cheese until soft, spoon into a bowl then dollop with onion jam and serve with plain biscuits. Crusty bread served with blue cheese and onion jam is a great way to finish off a dinner party.
* Substitute the port for 
balsamic vinegar for a different yet stunning onion jam.
* Serve onion jam in 
burgers, as an accompaniment for a hot breakfast or simply with grilled meats.
* As a delicious snack, 
serve onion jam alongside Persian fetta (which is creamier and less salty than regular fetta cheese), roasted or garlic confit and 
crusty bread.* Use red or brown onions in 
this recipe.
* Many recipes will ask 
that the onions are cooked in butter until naturally caramelised (see caramelised onions) then the remaining ingredients are added. That method is fine as well but I prefer a ‘jam’ or ‘preserve’ made without dairy products just in case somebody is allergic to dairy.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 30Pesto
Makes about 8 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 cups well packed basil leaves
6 garlic cloves, peeled and sliced1 cup pine nuts or walnuts (or a combination of the 
two)
1
½ cups extra virgin olive oil
salt and pepper1 cup freshly grated parmesan or pecorino cheese (or a 
combination of the two)
Method:
1. Place the basil leaves and garlic in a food 
processor or blender and process until the basil is finely chopped.
2. add the nuts and process until the nuts are also 
finely chopped.
3. With the motor running, add the oil in a slow, 
steady stream. after the oil is incorporated, turn off the machine and add the salt and pepper to taste. add the cheese and process until combined.
4. if not using immediately, store in an airtight 
container with a thin coating of olive oil on top to keep the pesto from going dark. Pesto covered with oil will keep well in the refrigerator for 2 weeks.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
31* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup 
measure and food processor  or blender.
* 4 cups of basil leaves 
will require about 2 large bunches of basil. If this seems too much, simply halve the recipe.
* Using just pecorino cheese 
and increasing the quantity of garlic to 8 cloves will make a more intense, sharply flavoured pesto.
* Toasting the pine nuts 
will also add flavour. To do this, place the pine nuts on a baking tray and roast in the oven at 200ºC, tossing every 3– 4 minutes until 
evenly brown. This is a job that requires the cook to stay in the kitchen as the pine nuts will burn easily.
* The amount of olive oil 
can be adjusted depending on the desired final consistency (thicker or thinner). Try adding or removing 
½ cup 
olive oil.
* Mix 1 tablespoon pesto 
through 4 tablespoons softened butter and keep in the fridge. It can be sliced and placed on top of hot meats just before serving.* Cut a chicken breast in 
half, spread with pesto and a generous slice of camembert cheese and a thin slice of prosciutto, secure with a toothpick and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes until the chicken starts to turn golden.
* Use pesto as a sandwich 
spread.
* Pesto can be frozen for 
up to 6 months. The easiest way to control portions is by freezing in ice cube trays, and once frozen, transferring to a clip lock bag.
* Serve as part of an 
antipasto platter.
* Add a generous dollop to 
minestrone.
* Toast good quality bread 
in a moderate oven, spread with the pesto and serve as crostini.
* Add pesto to roasted 
asparagus, stir through gnocchi, risotto, scrambled eggs or omelettes, or mix through a potato salad.
* For the advanced cook, 
add more parmesan and less oil, and use as a filling for homemade tortellini or ravioli.* Use on a pizza base 
instead of tomato sauce.
* Chopped basil browns 
quickly so add a layer of oil to the top of the jar to prevent it from discolouring, and the pesto will keep longer because air is kept out.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 32-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Pistou
Makes about 1 cup
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup 
measure and food processor or mortar and pestle.
* Pistou is the French 
version of Italy’s pesto. Therefore they are very similar in quantities and usage. The main difference is the French pistou does not have the nuts and parmesan cheese included in the pesto.* Pistou is associated with 
the French provincial soup similar to minestrone. The pistou is served on the side or added to the individual bowl.
* This is the most 
traditional and basic pistou recipe; a common variation has the addition of 
½ cup 
grated parmesan cheese stirred in at the end.* Like many traditional 
recipes, there are many variations based on the area where the raw ingredients are sourced. Therefore it should come as no surprise that some recipes for pistou contain parmesan, nuts, tomato or even ham— any of which 
would be considered correct depending on which provincial cook you spoke to.
* See pesto for more tips on 
how to use pistou.4 garlic cloves, peeled
2 cups loosely packed 
fresh basil leaves (1 bunch)
½ cup extra virgin olive 
oil
about ¼ teaspoon salt 
flakesMethod:
1. Puree the ingredients in a small food processor 
until a smooth paste is formed. (or, pound the garlic and salt in a mortar and pestle, then start adding the basil, pounding until pasty, and blend in the olive oil.)
2. serve immediately or, like pesto, cover with a thin 
layer of olive oil and refrigerate for up to 5 days. it will freeze successfully if done in small amounts.Dips anD accompaniments 33-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Quince paste
Makes about 3 kg
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
and liquid measures, a long-handled wooden spoon, lemon juicer and a large heavy-based pot.
* A native fruit of Persia, 
quince are said to be the fruit of love. But it’s their alchemy-like cooking act that inspires many cooks. The raw quince has flesh as pale as a ghost and is so hard it verges on being inedible yet it is nothing short of a culinary miracle that it transforms into a soft, ruby-red, beautifully perfumed food.
* Quince paste is a 
delicious accompaniment to any cheese plate, especially suited to blue cheese and ripe brie.
* Quince paste can be served 
with roast pork or roast turkey. Or make a sauce by heating 4 tablespoons quince paste, 4 tablespoons water,  4 tablespoons port and the zest of 1 orange, season with a small amount of salt, strain and serve on the side.3 kg quinces
white sugar150 ml lemon juice, 
strained
3 cinnamon sticksmethod:
1. choose quince which are yellow with a slight green 
tinge to them. this indicates that the quince is still a little under-ripe which in turn means the pectin levels are higher. Wash any ‘down’ from the surface of the quinces and chop roughly—at this point there is no need to peel or core the fruit. place the chopped quinces in a saucepan with 750 ml water. Bring to the boil, reduce heat and simmer until soft.
2. Drain off the excess water and pass the softened 
fruit through a sieve. Weigh the quince puree then place in a deep, heavy-based pot with an equal weight of sugar. add the lemon juice and cinnamon sticks.
3. Use a long-handled wooden spoon to stir over 
low heat, then increase the heat and boil until the mixture turns pink and begins to thicken. as it thickens, it is important to stir constantly so the paste doesn’t catch on the base of the pot and burn.
4. once thick, pour the paste into sterilised jars or 
containers. Leave to cool before covering. if properly sealed in sterilised containers, quince paste will last at least 1 year in a cool, dry area. once opened, keep refrigerated.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 34SalSa verde
Makes about 2 ½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1½ tablespoons salted capers
1 cup flat-leaf or curly parsley leaves
1 cup mint leaves1 cup basil leaves3 garlic cloves, minced6 anchovy fillets1 cup olive oillemon juicesalt and pepper
Method:
1. Wash the capers and soak in fresh water for an 
hour. Drain and squeeze dry in a tea towel.
2. in a food processor, blend the capers, herbs, 
garlic and anchovies until combined. alternatively, you can use a mortar and pestle and pound the ingredients into a paste.
3. With the machine still running, gradually add the 
olive oil.
4. When a thick paste forms, turn the machine off and 
stir in the lemon juice.
5. season to taste, transfer to a jar or bowl and 
cover with a layer of oil to seal; keep, covered, for up to 7 days.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
35* You will need— cutting 
board, bowls, sieve, cup 
measure, food processor or mortar and pestle and plastic spatula.
* Salsa verde directly 
translates as ‘green sauce’.
* For a different version of 
this sauce, omit the capers and anchovy fillets and add  1 tablespoon Dijon mustard.
* To make a ‘sweet and sour’ 
green sauce known as ‘Salsa verde agrodolce’, add to the basic recipe 4 tablespoons lemon juice or red wine vinegar, 2 tablespoons caster sugar and 2 slices white bread with the crusts removed.
* The herbs used in salsa 
verde can vary according to what you have fresh at hand. Parsley is recommended in all combinations with the addition of 2 other fresh green herbs, such as mint, basil, sorrel, marjoram, sage, tarragon, thyme, watercress, chervil or coriander to name a few.
* Salsa verde is served 
with fish, seafood, chicken, grilled and boiled meats, and chargrilled or roasted vegetables.* Salted capers can be 
substituted with pickled capers— which are more common 
in the supermarket. However, salted capers are a far better product compared to the more readily available, spongy, pickled variety.
* It is recommended to cover 
the salsa with oil for longer storage. Without the oil, the salsa will need to be used within 2– 3 days, after 
which the salsa will begin to oxidise and lose flavour and pungency. The salsa can also be frozen in ice cube trays; once frozen, place the cubes into a clip lock bag.
* Drizzle some salsa verde 
in minestrone.
* Serve with pasta as you 
would pesto pasta.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 36Tapenade
Makes about 3 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g kalamata olives, pitted (see Hints and tips)
100 g capers, rinsed100 g anchovy fillets200 ml olive oil
Method:
1. Place all the ingredients in a food processor and 
blend until smooth. or chop and then pound in a mortar and pestle, leaving the oil until last.
2. store, covered with a thin layer of oil, in a 
sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
37* You will need— food 
processor or mortar and 
pestle, weight and liquid measures, plastic spatula, cook’s knife (optional) and jar for storage.
* Pitting olives is as 
simple as squashing the olives either with your fingers and removing the pit or by placing the olive on a cutting board and squashing it with the base of a glass or bottle, then removing the pit.
* Tapenade can be made using 
large green olives. Any style of olive can be used, just make sure that olives kept in a brine are soaked for 30 minutes in cold water before using to remove the salty flavour. However, don’t buy pitted olives, especially the Spanish variety; they will not lend enough flavour and you will be disappointed.
* The capers should be 
rinsed under cold water and squeezed dry in the hand to get rid of the briny taste.
* The addition of 
2 teaspoons seeded mustard to the above recipe after blending is recommended.
* 2 tablespoons balsamic 
vinegar can be added for extra kick in the tapenade.* To sweeten and add body 
to the mixture, add 1 cup chopped dried figs.
* Try adding chopped leaves 
from a sprig of thyme to the blended mixture.
* Mince or chop 1 garlic 
clove and add before blending the mixture.
* In some recipes, the 
addition of 100 ml dark rum or brandy can replace 100 ml olive oil.
* A little goes a long 
way. Smear a thin layer of tapenade on a piece of bread, taste and adjust the amount according to personal taste.
* Tapenade is often served 
as an accompaniment or appetiser with chargrilled flat bread or sourdough bread.
* As a stir-through pasta 
sauce, try adding an extra clove of minced garlic and a cup of Italian tomato sauce (sugo casa) then stir into the cooked pasta before topping with torn flat-leaf parsley leaves.
* For an easy pasta sauce 
add tapenade and tinned tuna in olive oil to hot pasta. Sprinkle with some fresh oregano and finish with some crumbled fetta cheese.* Smear some tapenade mixed 
with equal parts ricotta under the skin of a roast chicken before baking in the oven.
* Spread tapenade on round 
croutons or bruschetta then top with your favourite ingredients to serve as a light lunch or dinner starter.
* Tapenade can be used on a 
pizza base rather than tomato sauce.
* Serve tapenade as part of 
an antipasto plate.
* Press out small rounds 
of puff pastry with a 5-cm pastry cutter, brush with tapenade, top with a slice of potato, sprinkle with dried rosemary and flaked salt and bake for 15 minutes at 180ºC.
* Add chilli to taste or 
juice of ½ lemon. You can 
also add ¼ cup roasted 
mushrooms or ¼ cup sundried 
tomatoes (finely chopped).
* Substitute black olives 
for green olives and replace the anchovies with 
¼ cup 
ground almonds.
* Substitute the anchovies 
with 50 g tinned tuna.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 38TomaTo chuTney
Makes about 1½–2 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg ripe tomatoes, peeled (see tomato jam)
500 g brown onions, peeled and cut into 1-cm dice1 tablespoon salt250 g sultanas or raisins, chopped250 ml white vinegar300 g brown sugar2 bay leaves1 teaspoon curry powder
½ teaspoon ground coriander
½ teaspoon ground turmeric
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon ground cloves
Method:
1. Dice the tomatoes and place in a glass or plastic 
bowl with the onion. sprinkle with salt, cover and refrigerate overnight. The following day pour off excess liquid.
2. Place the tomato and onion mixture in a pot and 
bring to the boil.
3. add the sultanas or raisins, vinegar, sugar and bay 
leaves, and simmer until the sugar dissolves.
4. in a small pan or wok, toast the curry powder and 
spices for 30 seconds. remove the pan from the heat, and add some liquid from the tomato mixture to form a paste. Then add the spice paste to the chutney.
5. simmer for 1
½–2 hours or until the mixture 
resembles a soft jam consistency. remember to stir 
occasionally to prevent it from burning.
6. Pour into hot sterilised jars and seal with a lid. 
cool before storing in the pantry. keep refrigerated Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
39after opening.
* You will need— knife, 
cutting board, bowls, weight, 
liquid and spoon measures, heavy-based saucepan, frying pan, wooden spoon, a strong heatproof bowl or ladle and preserving jars with lids.
* Try adding 500 g peeled 
and diced Granny Smith apples to this recipe.
* Toasting the spices brings 
out their fragrance; however, it is an optional step in this recipe. Do keep in mind that it is a 30-second job and adds greatly to the end result.
* Peeling the tomatoes may 
not seem all that important, especially given the time it takes. But it really is essential as tomato skins do not break down once cooked and remain as chewy strips not dissimilar to rubber bands. Keep in mind that tomato chutney will last for months on end and so the extra time taken to peel the tomatoes is certainly more than made up for in preservation time.
* Like tomato relish, 
chutney is best stored for 4–6 weeks (preferably several 
months) before using to allow the vinegar to mellow and the flavours to marry.
* Tomato chutney, with its 
great preserving power, is always good to have on hand for barbecues and roasts. It’s also great with homemade pies, or spread on rolls or sandwiches.
* For a green tomato 
chutney, substitute the red, ripe tomatoes for green (unripe) tomatoes and add  250 g peeled and diced Granny Smith apples. Cook as per the method given.
* Consider the tomatoes 
used when making a chutney. Depending on the variety and the natural sweetness of the tomato, the amount of sugar used can vary. Green tomatoes will need more sugar than sweet red tomatoes. Even red tomatoes differ in natural sugars. Do not expect your first batch to be your best; the more you make and refine the recipe, the better it will become.
* As always, any homemade 
preserve stored in a nice bottle and labelled with a funky name makes for a great gift all year round.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 40TomaTo relish
Makes about 2 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg ripe tomatoes
500 g (about 4 medium) onions, diced1 tablespoon salt300 g brown sugar1–2 cups malt vinegar
1 tablespoon dry mustard powder1 bay leaf1 teaspoon mixed spice
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper
¼ teaspoon ground cumin
Method:
1. Peel the tomatoes (see Hints and tips) and roughly 
chop. Place the tomatoes and onion in a bowl, sprinkle with the salt and refrigerate overnight. This draws out the liquid and intensifies the flavour.
2. The following day, pour off the excess liquid and 
put the mixture in a heavy-based saucepan. add the sugar and enough vinegar to only just cover.
3. Bring the relish to the boil, reduce heat and 
simmer for 1 hour.
4. While the tomatoes are simmering, dry fry the 
spices over medium heat in a frying pan or wok, stirring constantly to avoid burning. This will take about 30 seconds. remove the pan from the heat and add a few tablespoons of the tomato cooking liquid and mix to form a paste. add this spice paste to the tomato relish and simmer, stirring often because as it thickens it will tend to stick and burn, for another 30 minutes or until the mixture thickens.
5. ladle into hot, sterilised jars with plastic lids. 
relish needs to be stored for 3 months or more to allow the flavours to mature. eating this relish within weeks is fine but the flavour is overpowered by vinegar.Dips anD accompaniments-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
41* You will need— knife, 
cutting board, bowl, weight, 
spoon and cup measures, heavy-based saucepan, wooden spoon, ladle and preserving jars and lids.
* There is surprisingly very 
little difference between a relish and a chutney. A 
relish can be made with similar ingredients used in a chutney, although in different quantities. A relish is generally cooked for less time, which helps retain the texture of the ingredients, whereas chutney is cooked for longer and the texture is therefore thicker and more even.
* To peel a tomato— score 
the skin very lightly with the point of a sharp knife. Then blanch in boiling water for 10–15 seconds, no more—
the longer the tomato cooks, the more flesh will be ripped off when you peel the tomato. Don’t drop the tomatoes in iced water after blanching, as this will dilute their flavour.
* Relishes make great gifts 
and friends are always impressed when you give them something you have made yourself.* This relish will keep in 
sterilised jars for up to  12 months. Once opened, keep in the fridge and use within 4 weeks.
* Serve this relish as part 
of an antipasto platter; it goes really well with hard cheeses.
* Substitute red tomatoes 
for green; they are difficult to find but if you are fortunate enough to have your own vegetable patch, it is a great way to utilise the tomatoes that do not ripen at the end of the season.
* Serve with nachos instead 
of sour cream for a lighter alternative.
* Because relish is a 
condiment, it really can be served with anything either hot or cold; use in sandwiches or with rissoles, sausage rolls, savoury scones, roast meat or cold meats.
* Use as a pizza base or in 
tacos.
* Over time, the relish will 
darken a bit which is fine as the flavour will intensify.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 42-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— knife, 
cutting board, bowl, weight 
measure, juicer, heavy-based saucepan, heatproof jug or ladle and preserving jars and lids.
* To peel a tomato— score 
the skin very lightly with the point of a sharp knife. Then blanch in boiling water for 10–15 seconds, no more—
the longer the tomato cooks, the more flesh will be ripped off when you peel the tomato. Don’t drop the tomatoes in iced water after blanching, as this will dilute their flavour.* Green tomato jam— 2 kg 
green tomatoes (1 kg after cleaning), 900 g caster sugar, and juice and zest of 2 small lemons. Rinse tomatoes in cold water and dry with a tea towel. Cut into wedges and remove the seeds, juice and remove the white centre parts. Dice the tomatoes (about 2 cm) and place in a bowl with the sugar and lemon juice. Cover with plastic wrap and stand overnight. The next day, pour the tomato mixture into a heavy-based saucepan. Bring to the boil, reduce heat to low and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Pour back into the bowl, cover with plastic wrap and again refrigerate overnight. On the third day, bring the mixture to the boil, skim if necessary, and continue cooking on low heat for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Check to see if the jam is thick enough and cook a few minutes more if needed. Put the jam into sterilised jars immediately and seal, or for small batches, just refrigerate.TomaTo jam
Makes about 1¼  litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg ripe tomatoes, peeled 
(see Hints and tips)
1 kg white sugar
juice of 1 lemonMethod:
1. cut the tomatoes in half, thinly slice and place in 
a heavy-based saucepan.
2. Gently bring the tomatoes to the boil.3. add the sugar and lemon juice and stir until 
dissolved.
4. continue to boil, stirring occasionally, until the 
jam reaches setting point.
5. Pour into hot, sterilised jars or if using 
immediately into a container to cool, before refrigeration.Dips anD accompaniments 43-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------TzaTziki
Makes about 600 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 2 bowls, 
cutting board, knife, juicer, 
grater, spoon measure and spoon.
* The yoghurt needs to be 
as thick as possible. Use a sheep’s milk yoghurt or strain 750 g natural yoghurt overnight (in the fridge) through a clean muslin cloth set in a strainer over a bowl to catch the liquid. Discard the cloudy liquid. The strained yoghurt is known as ‘labna’. 750 g strained yoghurt will produce about 500 g thick yoghurt after  12 hours. Strain the yoghurt for 24–36 hours and it would 
be too thick for tzatziki and is best used as labna cheese.
* If making tzatziki in 
advance and to reduce the water content, place the grated or sliced cucumber in a bowl and sprinkle with 1 tablespoon salt, allow to stand for 30 minutes, rinse under cold water and squeeze gently to remove excess water.
* Tzatziki can be given more 
tang by adding the extra juice of 
½ lemon, or mellow 
the flavour by mixing  2 tablespoons mayonnaise to the basic recipe.
* Pepper is deliberately 
missing from the recipe as it is not usually added. However, if you are a fan, add some to taste.
* Small amounts of leftover 
tzatziki can be used as a marinade for lamb cutlets, chops or roasting joint, or chicken thigh and breast fillets. Leave overnight and grill, barbecue or roast the next day.
* Serve with roasted 
vegetables, lentil or chickpea burgers or as an accompaniment to steamed beans.* To serve as a dip, try 
hollowing out the inside of a round ‘cob’ loaf and fill the centre with the tzatziki. Toast the inside of the loaf in the oven to make chunky croutons that can be dipped into the tzatziki. Then break off parts of the crusty outer loaf and dip that in as well.
* Replace the mint with 
basil. On occasions, especially if serving with fish, replace the mint with fresh dill.
* Leftover roast lamb can 
be sliced and heated in a pan or on the barbecue to resemble ‘gyros’. Dollop tzatziki on the lamb and roll in flat bread with lettuce and tomato.
* Although tzatziki has 
a special affinity with barbecued or grilled lamb, try it with lamb burgers and grilled chicken breast.500 g natural yoghurt  
(see Hints and tips)
1 continental cucumber, 
seeds removed and 
grated
2 garlic cloves, crushedjuice of 
½ lemon
1 teaspoon shredded mintsaltmethod:
1. place the yoghurt in a bowl and beat with a whisk 
to thicken slightly.
2. add the remaining ingredients and mix well.3. serve with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil or 
store in a container, refrigerated. it will keep for 1–2 days but will then become watery.------------------------------------
3 .  S o u p s xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 46Cauliflower soup
Makes about 1 litre or 4 serves
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 medium cauliflower
500 ml water250 ml milk (optional)salt
Method:
1. remove leaves from the cauliflower. cut into small 
pieces, including the entire stem as that is where most of the flavour is.
2. Place in a saucepan with the water and milk. Milk 
is optional—especially if lactose intolerant—and should be replaced with more water. Bring to the boil and simmer for 30 minutes or until the cauliflower is soft.
3. remove from the heat and let stand for 10 minutes 
before blending. it is best to do this with a hand-held blender or benchtop blender and not a food processor which produces a less refined result.
4. Place back on the stove, bring back to the boil and 
season with salt to taste.
5. serve as is or with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.
 
 SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
47* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
measure, saucepan and hand-held or benchtop blender.
* When using cauliflower for 
this soup, find one that is free from blemishes and is firm to touch.
* The amount of liquid used 
is a guide and should only just cover the cauliflower. Too much liquid and the soup will be too thin; it is best to have a very thick soup that can have more liquid added after it is pureed.
* The reason it is 
recommended the soup stand before blending is that it is extremely hot and can cause a nasty burn if rushing the blending stage. A well-trained cook may get away with it; however, I’ve seen some bad burns from hot soups.
* It is important to re-
boil the soup, especially if refrigerating leftovers or making the day before. This is because the air bubbles created when blending will hold bacteria when the soup is cooling and in some cases can make the soup ‘sour’ overnight.* The use of onion and 
garlic in this soup is entirely unnecessary. The notion that all soups start with the gentle sautéing of these two ingredients is ridiculous. It may add a flavour profile that is too powerful for the main ingredient.
* For a smooth, velvety 
texture, bring the pureed soup back to the boil, remove from the heat and stir in  1 tablespoon butter or double cream.
* Peel and chop 2 large 
potatoes and add to the soup with the cauliflower. The potatoes will thicken the soup. Be sure to test the potatoes to check that they are thoroughly cooked to the point of breaking up in the soup.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 48ChiCken and sweet Corn soup
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g chicken breast, finely chopped
1 teaspoon minced ginger100 ml shaoxing rice wine1
½ litres chicken stock (see Hints and tips)
1 x 400 g tin creamed corn or 400 g fresh corn kernels, 
blanched in boiling water and blended
1 teaspoon salt flakes3 tablespoons cornflour mixed with 1 tablespoon cold 
water
3 egg whites, lightly beaten1 teaspoon sesame oilfinely chopped spring onion, to garnish
Method:
1. Mix the chicken, ginger and rice wine in a bowl and 
set aside.
2. in a pot, bring the chicken stock, corn and salt 
to the boil, then reduce heat to a simmer. add the chicken mixture and stir well.
3. Mix the cornflour with just enough cold water to 
make a smooth paste. stir the cornflour paste into the simmering soup, bring back to the boil and remove from the heat.
4. stir in the egg whites then add the sesame oil.5. serve in bowls with a sprinkle of spring onion.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
49* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, 2 bowls, whisk and serving ladle.
* This basic Chinese soup 
which is so very popular with the Western diner is very simple to make. But the true secret of a great chicken and sweet corn soup is the quality of the ingredients, especially the chicken stock. It is worth the effort to make chicken stock to truly appreciate this timeless classic.
* The time-poor cook will 
not have the 3– 4 hours it 
takes to make a stock so I suggest using stock cubes until ready to take it to the next level.
* Fresh stock should be 
used within 3 days or freeze in handy 1- or 2-litre containers— old milk 
containers, thoroughly washed and drained, make excellent freezer containers for stock.
* Vegetable stock can be 
substituted for chicken stock. If making a vegetarian version, omit the chicken breast and stir in 250 g silken tofu at the very end.* A dry sherry can be 
substituted for Chinese cooking wine.
* Finely chopped chilli with 
the seeds removed can be added to the cooking process.
* Canned sweet corn can be 
used instead of creamed corn but will still need to be drained and processed to a smooth consistency.
* Leftover soup can be 
frozen.
* Leftover egg yolks can be 
used to make a mayonnaise. Keep the yolks in a bowl covered with plastic film to prevent a skin from forming on the yolks. 1– 2 days is 
ideal.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 50-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------ChiCken soup with matzoh balls
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, knife, large stock or 
soup pot, fine sieve, some muslin cloth (optional), sauté pan, wooden spoon, tray, saucepan, and weight and liquid measures.
* Leftover soup can be 
used as a stock for many other soups. Or freeze in containers for another day.* Traditionally, a chicken 
soup was made as above but using a whole chicken and then the meat from the bird was added back into the soup. The problem with this is the meat has relinquished all of its nutrients into the stock and is too dry.
* Some cooks like to finish 
the soup with green peas and diced carrot.* If you want to add some 
chicken meat to the strained soup, use some chicken breast fillets, thinly sliced and poached for several minutes in the simmering soup.
* A common catchcry 
throughout this book is that  
there are as many recipes as there are cooks. And so ... for all the Jewish cooks who cross this recipe— my 
apologies.Matzoh balls
100 ml vegetable oil2 medium onions, finely 
diced
½ bunch chives, chopped
6 eggs, lightly beaten300 g matzoh mealsalt and pepper1 litre chicken stockMethod:
1. heat the oil in a pan and sauté the onions until 
lightly golden. remove from the heat.
2. in a bowl, mix the chives, eggs, matzoh meal and 
the sautéed onion. season with salt and pepper, and mix well. Taste the mixture to ensure it is well seasoned.
3. refrigerate for 1–2 hours.4. Divide the mixture into four and roll each into a 
thin sausage shape and cut into 35–40 even pieces—this will save time ripping at the mixture, guessing the same size balls.
5. roll each cut piece into a ball and place on a tray.6. Bring a pot of salted water to the boil and cook 
the balls for 30 minutes.
7. remove the cooked balls and set aside ready for use.
8. remember to reheat before using in the chicken soup.9. reheat the chicken stock, add the matzoh balls  
(4 per serve) and serve.SoupS 51-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup, 
weight, liquid and spoon measures, wooden spoon and heavy-based pot or saucepan.
* This is a very basic 
version of chowder. There are many additions and alternative ingredients for this soup while still being classed as chowder.
* Although chowder has its 
debated origins in Bordeaux, France, and Cornwall in the southwest of England, it owes its popularity to the Americas. Even in America it is argued which style of chowder is the best as there are 3 styles; the creamy version (above), a clear, broth style, and a tomato-based chowder. One thing, however, is common in all and that is the addition of seafood.
* The quality of seafood 
is paramount to the success of this dish. Crab meat is readily available at most fish shops. Always pick over the crab meat as often it has bits of shell in it.
* The best option is to 
cook and pick over the crab yourself, as this guarantees freshness.
* Do not be tempted to use 
tinned crab meat— the flavour 
is distinct and can affect the chowder.* Clam chowder or seafood 
chowder are two alternatives to the recipe provided. Simply substitute the crab meat with the same weight of any other seafood combination. Be sure to sauté raw seafood before stirring into the chowder at the last minute.Crab Chowder
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g butter
½ brown onion, finely 
chopped
2 celery sticks, finely 
chopped
1 cup water
3 medium potatoes, peeled 
and diced
2 cups milk300 g cooked crab meat
¼ teaspoon Tabasco sauce
¼ teaspoon ground pepper
saltMethod:
1. Melt the butter in a heavy-based pot or saucepan 
over medium heat. When the butter is bubbling, add the onion and celery and cook without colouring for  5 minutes.
2. Add the water and potatoes and bring to the boil. 
Reduce the heat and simmer for 10 minutes.
3. Add the milk, bring back to the boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer until the potatoes are tender (ready to eat).
4. Stir in the crab meat, Tabasco, pepper and salt to 
taste.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 52French onion soup
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g butter
3 large brown onions, thinly sliced250 ml red wine1 litre brown beef stock, vegetable stock, chicken 
stock or water
salt and pepper1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves, finely chopped6 slices f rench stick or small sourdough
1 cup grated gruyère cheese
Method:
1. in a heavy-based pot or casserole dish, melt the 
butter until it begins to foam and starts to brown slightly. Quickly add the onions, reduce the heat to medium and cook the onions for 15–20 minutes or until the onions take on a light caramel colour.
2. add the wine and reduce by half.3. add the stock or water, bring to the boil and 
simmer for 10 minutes.
4. remove from the heat, season with salt and pepper 
to taste, and sprinkle in the thyme.
5. heat the grill and toast the bread slices on both 
sides, top one side of each slice with cheese and place back under the grill to melt.
6. Place a cheese crouton in each bowl and ladle the 
soup over the top, or ladle the soup in first then top with a crouton.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
53* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup, 
liquid, weight and spoon measures, baking tray, heavy-based pot or casserole dish and wooden spoon.
* Use brown onions and not 
red onions in this soup, as red onions can make the soup go slightly cloudy unless really well cooked and finished with a splash of balsamic or red wine vinegar.
* Always be careful with 
the quantity of salt you add at the end. Remember that instant stocks can be quite salty.
* The soup can be made well 
in advance and the cheesy bread grilled just before serving.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 54Gazpacho
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6 large ripe tomatoes, peeled, seeded and chopped
1 long red chilli, seeds removed and minced4 garlic cloves, minced1 continental cucumber, peeled, seeded and diced1 red capsicum, seeded and diced1 red onion, peeled and finely diced1 litre vegetable stock or chicken stock2 tablespoons lemon juice2 tablespoons sherry vinegar2 tablespoons chopped fresh basil2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleysalt flakes and freshly ground black pepper125 ml best-quality extra virgin olive oil
Method:
1. combine all of the vegetables in a large bowl.2. add the stock, lemon juice and vinegar and stir 
very briefly.
3. stir in the fresh herbs and season with salt and 
pepper to taste.
4. chill the soup for at least 1 hour before serving.5. remove from the refrigerator, stir, let rest for  
15 minutes and then pour the olive oil over the soup and serve.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
55* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler, juicer and liquid and spoon measures.
* This full-bodied version 
of contemporary gazpacho is best at the peak of harvest, when all of the vegetables are perfectly ripe. On a hot day, there is nothing more refreshing.
* Alternatively, combine all 
the ingredients in a food processor and pulse until smooth but still with chunks in it.
* It is important to cut 
the vegetables to the same size. This is not only for the aesthetics of the dish but when eating, even pieces of each vegetable can be consumed in equal amounts in one mouthful.
* Ajo blanco— is the white 
gazpacho and although served chilled has little else in common with the more commonly known tomato-based soup. To make ajo blanco, you need—250 g blanched almonds,  750 ml iced water, 5 slices stale white bread (with crusts removed) soaked in water, 5 garlic cloves,  3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, 4 tablespoons sherry vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt flakes and ground white pepper. In a food processor, blitz the almonds. Add 1 cup iced water, then squeeze the bread of excess water and add to the almonds with the garlic. With the machine running, add more water, the olive oil and the vinegar. Check the seasoning then chill in the refrigerator. Serve topped with fresh muscatel grapes.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 56Minestrone
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 litres chicken stock, vegetable stock or water
500 g fresh borlotti beans, shelled to yield 250 g  
(see note below) or 1 x 440 g can borlotti beans
250 g tomatoes, peeled and seeded200 g carrots, peeled and cubed1 celery stick, trimmed, coarsely chopped1 large potato, peeled and diced150 g rice (arborio if possible)200 g white cabbage or cavolo nero (black cabbage), 
shredded
200 g green beans, cut into pieces, or fresh green peas200 g small zucchini, washed, cut in half and  
thinly sliced
2 large ripe tomatoes, peeled, seeded and  
coarsely chopped
1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleysalt flakeschopped fresh basil or pesto, to servefreshly grated parmesan cheese, to serveextra virgin olive oil, for drizzlingfreshly ground black pepper, to serve
Method:
1. Bring the stock to the boil. add the borlotti beans 
and simmer for 15 minutes—if using canned beans, drain and rinse under cold water and add with the hard vegetables.
2. Puree the tomatoes in a blender. add to the stock 
along with the carrots, celery, potato and rice, and simmer for 15 minutes. With 5 minutes of cooking time to go, add the cabbage, green beans or peas, zucchini and chopped tomato. When completely cooked, check the seasoning. it should be a thick soup; however, if it is too thick, add more stock or water.
3. serve in individual bowls with chopped basil or 
pesto. Pass around the parmesan, extra virgin olive oil, and pepper.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
57* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, strainer, grater, blender, pot or large saucepan, wooden spoon, weight, liquid and spoon measures.
* Minestrone is a rustic 
country soup that should be served hot in winter and autumn, and cool or even chilled in summer. It may take time to prepare, but the results are worth it— recruit 
somebody to help you prepare the vegetables. There really is no set recipe for minestrone which makes the recipe just a guide. Although it’s usually made from vegetables in season, beans, stock and pasta or rice, the actual quantities do not have to be exact. This really is the best opportunity to cook a meal without a recipe and as long as the soup is packed with vegetables and has a thick consistency, minestrone can be very simple.
* If chicken stock is 
unavailable then simply use water, just be sure to season the soup properly at the end. As this recipe asks for chicken stock— and as 
romantic as it may be to use homemade stock which will take several hours— stock 
cubes, powder or even pre-made packet stock will be fine. Be aware, however, that these ‘quick’ options can tend to be quite salty, so be careful before adding extra salt as the soup may need only a little, if any at all.
* 150 g dried white beans 
may be substituted for the borlotti. Soak overnight and cook until tender. Add to the broth with the vegetables.
* Fresh tomatoes for the 
puree can easily be replaced with a small can of crushed tomatoes. The tomatoes added at the end of the cooking are still best to be kept fresh and chunky.
* Rice can be replaced with 
a pasta, like small shells or macaroni.
* Other ingredients can 
go into the soup like cauliflower, parsnip, turnip, swede or celeriac. Bacon rinds can be added in the beginning to add a smoky flavour to the soup.
* One option is to start  
the soup by frying  1 finely chopped onion and  2 crushed garlic cloves in  3 tablespoons olive oil before adding the chicken stock. Or pre-boil 2 Italian sausages for 15 minutes, cool and slice into rounds then brown in the olive oil before adding the onion and garlic; continue as per the recipe.
* Serve with fresh Italian 
bread, no butter.
* Rather than serving in 
individual bowls, place the pot in the middle of the table and as everyone sits at the table, ask how much they would like. This allows people to have only what they feel like as well as the option of asking for seconds. Have all the accompaniments around the pot of soup. Bread, parmesan, extra virgin olive oil and pesto are perfect to add to minestrone.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 58-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Miso soup
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid, 
weight and spoon measures and pot or saucepan.
* This is probably the 
easiest soup in the book due to everything being readily available at Japanese and other Asian grocers.
* Although simply finished 
here with spring onions, alternative garnishes include toasted sesame seeds, toasted nori flakes or chives. Try also asparagus spears, bean sprouts, snow peas, fresh sliced shiitake mushrooms or fine julienne of carrot.
* Do not boil miso soup as 
it can change the flavour slightly. Bring to the boil and turn down immediately.* Miso soup is high in 
valuable nutrients and is considered a great ‘pick me up’.
* Dashi is fundamental in 
Japanese cuisine as a soup stock and flavour base in many dishes. Generally made with dried fish (sardines or bonito) and kombu (a seaweed available fresh, dried, frozen and pickled), dashi can also be vegetarian, made with mushrooms. Instant dashi is a powder that simply needs boiling water added. Although quick and easy, it is frowned upon by purists. If you have a recipe for homemade dashi, have a go: there are after all only 2 or 3 ingredients involved and one of them is water—how hard can it be?1 litre dashi stock
75 g inaka miso
200 g silken bean curd 
(tofu)
1 tablespoon finely sliced 
spring onions, green part onlyMethod:
1. Bring the dashi stock to the boil, then reduce the 
heat to a simmer.
2. add the miso paste, stirring to dissolve.3. Gently cut the tofu into 1-cm cubes and place in  
4 serving bowls.
4. ladle the miso soup over the top of the tofu and 
sprinkle each with some sliced spring onion.SoupS 59-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid, 
weight and cup measures, wooden spoon, heavy-based pot, hand-held blender or benchtop blender.
* The raw, chopped mushrooms 
added at the end will heighten the mushroom flavour in the soup.* The reason it is 
recommended the soup stand before blending is that it is extremely hot and can cause a nasty burn if rushing the blending stage. A well-trained cook may get away with it; however, I’ve seen some bad burns from hot soups.
* For dairy intolerance, 
simply omit the cream.MushrooM soup
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
750 g mushrooms, torn into 
pieces
100 ml olive oil
1 brown onion, finely 
chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed750 ml chicken stock or 
vegetable stock
150 ml thickened cream
½ cup fresh flat-leaf 
parsley leaves, shredded
salt and freshly ground 
black pepperMethod:
1. Chop 100 g of the mushrooms and set aside to 
garnish.
2. Heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. 
Add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring often, for 3–4 minutes or until soft but without colour.
3. Add the torn mushrooms and cook, stirring 
occasionally, for 10 minutes or until mushrooms are tender.
4. Add the stock and bring to the boil. Reduce the 
heat to medium-low and simmer, uncovered for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
5. Remove from the heat, and using a hand-held blender 
or benchtop blender, process soup to a smooth even consistency.
6. Return to the saucepan and stir in the cream and 
parsley. place back on a medium-low heat, and reheat, without boiling, until hot. Season with salt and pepper, ladle into bowls and serve garnished with reserved mushrooms.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 60-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Pea and ham souP
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, liquid and weight measures, large pot and wooden spoon.
* To cut the cooking time 
in half, soak the split peas overnight in 1 litre of cold water.
* To gain extra flavour from 
the vegetables, sauté in  100 ml olive oil over medium heat in a separate pan for  5 minutes before adding to the soup, allowing 20 minutes to cook until tender.* The flavour of the soup 
will develop if left to sit in the fridge for 2 days before being reheated and consumed with crusty bread.
* Use the chopped meat from 
the ham hock to go back into the soup or add to an entirely different dish. Combine with leftover roasted vegetables in a fry-up like bubble-and-squeak or make homemade baked beans and add the hock meat before being baked.
* Too often this soup is 
made way too thick. Use water or stock to thin the soup if it is getting too thick.* As painful as it may 
appear, it is important to sort through the peas as small stones and debris can be found among them. Once sorted, rinse under cold water to remove any dust from manufacturing, soak in plenty of cold water and drain well.
* Omit the ham hock entirely 
to produce a delicious split pea soup.250 g dried green split 
peas (see Hints and 
tips)
1 litre chicken stock or 
water
1 smoked ham hock (about 
500 g)
1 small brown onion, 
peeled and finely diced
1 carrot, peeled and diced1 celery stick, diced2 garlic cloves, crushed2 sprigs thyme2 sprigs oregano2 sprigs mintsaltMethod:
1. Place the split peas in a pot with the chicken 
stock and ham hock.
2. Bring to the boil, reduce heat to low and simmer 
gently for 1 hour. keep the liquid level the same by topping up with stock or water as needed.
3. add the onion, carrot, celery, garlic and herbs and 
continue to simmer for 30 minutes.
4. check to make sure the vegetables are tender and 
the split peas are mushy, if not add more liquid and continue to cook. remove the ham hock and herbs. season with salt to taste and serve.SoupS 61-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
measures, large pot, wooden spoon and hand-held blender (preferable for safety) or benchtop blender.
* The reason it is 
recommended for the soup to stand before blending is that it is extremely hot and can cause a nasty burn if rushing the blending stage. * Use boiling water from the 
kettle— adding boiling water 
or stock will quicken the time it takes for the soup to come back to the boil.
* If I wanted a more 
dominant flavour from the leeks—enough to call the 
soup a ‘leek and potato’— I 
would double the quantity of leek and halve the potato quantity.* To make a vichyssoise  
(chilled potato and leek soup) puree the soup and place in the refrigerator to cool completely. Check the seasoning and make sure it is very tasty before stirring in the cream.Potato and leek souP
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 leeks, white part only
100 ml olive oil1 brown onion, finely diced2 garlic cloves, sliced 
finely
6 large potatoes, peeled 
and chopped into 2-cm pieces
boiling water or vegetable 
stock
salt150 ml cream (optional)Method:
1. Slice the leeks in half lengthways and run under 
cold water to remove any dirt; drain and finely slice.
2. Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. Add 
the leeks, onion and garlic and sauté until softened but without colouring, about 10 minutes. Then add the potatoes.
3. Add enough boiling water or stock to cover the 
vegetables by 3 cm and simmer for about 15 minutes.
4. Remove from the heat and let stand for 10 minutes 
before blending. use a hand-held or benchtop blender and then strain the soup back into the pot. It is important but not entirely necessary to strain the soup as leeks can be quite stringy.
5. Return to medium heat, bring just to the boil, 
and season with salt and cream, if desired, before serving.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 62PumPkin souP
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg butternut pumpkin
100 ml olive oil1 medium brown onion, thinly sliced1.5 litres water200 ml cream (optional)salt
Method:
1. Peel the pumpkin using a vegetable peeler, not a 
knife. cut in half lengthways and remove the seeds with a spoon. cut into quarters lengthways and then slice thinly in the opposite direction.
2. heat the olive oil in a pot large enough to hold 
all the ingredients. cook the onions over medium–low heat without colouring.
3. add the pumpkin and cook for a further 5 minutes, 
then increase the heat to high, add the water and bring to the boil. reduce the heat and simmer for 30–40 minutes or until the pumpkin is completely soft.
4. remove from the heat and stand for 10 minutes 
before blending using a hand-held or benchtop blender.
5. after blending, return to the heat, add the cream, 
if using, and salt to taste. Bring back to a simmer before serving.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
63* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, weight and liquid measures, wooden spoon, heavy-based pot and hand-held or benchtop blender.
* When peeling pumpkin, to 
avoid the sticky orange film that builds up on your hand, rub a small amount of oil onto the hand that holds the pumpkin. You may need to re-apply on occasion.
* Butternut pumpkin is ideal 
for this soup, but other great varietals include Japola (Jap), Kent, or any dark-fleshed pumpkin.
* The dollop of cream at 
the end gives a smooth, velvety texture. Try adding a dollop of coriander pesto or salsa verde. Or sprinkle with grated parmesan or some croutons.
* Try roasting the pumpkin 
either in pieces or whole. Roasting vegetables caramelises their natural sugars which in turn enhances the flavour of the vegetable, making the soup just that bit richer and fuller flavoured.* Adding spices to pumpkin 
soup is recommended to create another dimension. For example, use 1 tablespoon red curry paste and 200 ml coconut cream in the basic recipe.
* Substitute sweet potato 
for the pumpkin in this recipe.
* Pumpkin in the US and UK 
refers to a type of sweet pumpkin reserved for making pumpkin pie or jack-o’-lanterns (these have a large seed cavity and pale orange flesh). Pumpkin in Australia and New Zealand refers to all hard-skinned squash including the likes of butternut, Japola, golden nugget and Queensland blue. These and several other cultivars are all known as ‘winter squash’ in the US or ‘squash’ in  the UK.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 64Seafood gumbo
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g plain flour
100 ml olive oil1 litre fish stock, strained4 garlic cloves, finely chopped1 onion, peeled and finely chopped2 celery sticks, finely chopped1 red capsicum, de-seeded and finely chopped500 g okra800 g can tomatoes, drained and chopped4 tablespoons tomato paste2 bay leaves1 teaspoon dried oregano2 teaspoons dried thyme leaves1 teaspoon cayenne pepper2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce12 green prawns, peeled and de-veined18 black mussels1 kg white fish fillets1 teaspoon Tabasco saucesalt and pepper3 cups cooked rice6 blue swimmer crab claws, cookedfresh basil leavesfresh thyme leaves
Method:
1. Mix the flour and oil in a large saucepan. stir 
constantly over medium heat until the flour turns ‘chocolate’ brown, about 15 minutes.
2. stir in the stock and cook for 5–6 minutes, 
stirring constantly until thickened.
3. stir in the garlic, onion, celery, capsicum and 
okra and cook over low heat for 5–6 minutes. stir in the tomatoes, tomato paste, herbs, cayenne pepper and Worcestershire sauce. Bring to the boil, reduce heat and simmer for 40 minutes.SoupS 65-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, wooden spoon, cup, weight, liquid and spoon measures, heavy-based pot.
* It is very important to 
get the flour and oil mixture (a roux) to be chocolate brown before proceeding. This adds the unique flavour that a gumbo should have.
* Finishing this soup 
with file powder or okra is entirely optional and any cook who suggests that it isn’t a gumbo without these ingredients must not be aware of how many hundreds of versions of this soup there really are— I’m almost 
embarrassed by providing  just one.* Apart from the dark roux, 
the other point that is very important is the use of a good fish stock in this recipe. Water, although passable, will not deliver the goods.Method cont.
4. Stir in the prawns, mussels and fish, and poach for 
3–4 minutes until cooked. Season with Tabasco sauce and salt and pepper.
5. Spoon 
½ cup rice into each bowl and ladle over the 
soup. Decorate with crab claws, basil and thyme.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 66TomaTo soup
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 kg ripe tomatoes (see Hints and tips)
100 ml olive oil1 small onion, finely diced2 garlic cloves, minced1 bay leaf1 tablespoon sugar200 ml water300 ml thickened cream (optional)salt and pepper
Method:
1. slice the tomatoes in half exposing a cross-section 
of the tomato—it is then easier to remove the seeds with a teaspoon. Dice the flesh roughly. Do not worry that the tomatoes are not peeled as the soup needs to be strained.
2. heat the olive oil in a pot large enough to hold 
all the ingredients. cook the onions and garlic over medium–low heat, without colouring, for 5 minutes.
3. add the chopped tomatoes, bay leaf, sugar and 
water, bring to the boil then reduce the heat to low and simmer until reduced by half.
4. remove from the heat and pass through a sieve using 
a ladle to push the pulp through. only the skin of the tomatoes should remain in the sieve. Do not be tempted to blend this soup as the skin will break up and make the soup grainy and slightly bitter.
5. return the strained soup to low heat and simmer for 
a few minutes, adding cream, if using, and salt and pepper to taste. serve.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
67* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid, 
weight and spoon measures, large heavy-based pot, and wooden spoon.
* It is very important 
that only ripe tomatoes are used—preferably vine-ripened 
or hydroponic— to get the 
best flavoured tomato soup.
* Adding the cream is 
optional. The resulting soup without cream may be slightly sour in which case add  1 teaspoon sugar. Top the soup with pesto or croutons.
* If fresh tomatoes are not 
around and you have an urge to make tomato soup, then use canned tomatoes. Try and find a good organic brand which should indicate good flavour.
* Use leftover roasted 
tomatoes to make a small serve of soup or roast the tomatoes for the soup.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 68Vegetable and barley soup
Serves 12–16
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 g pearl barley
100 ml olive oil1 onion, finely diced1 leek, white part only, 
sliced in half, washed and chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced8 pale inner celery 
sticks, chopped
1 fennel bulb, cut into 
1-cm dice
2 carrots, scrubbed and 
cut into 1-cm dice
1 cup celery leaves, 
also from the centre, shredded
1 teaspoon dried basil2
½ litres vegetable stock  
or water
1 bay leaf2 medium potatoes, 
scrubbed and cut into 1-cm dice
800 g can diced tomatoessalt100 g spinach leaves, 
shreddedMethod:
1. soak the pearl barley in hot water for 45 minutes, 
drain and rinse.
2. heat the oil in a large pot, fry the onion, leek 
and garlic without colouring for 5 minutes over medium heat.
3. add the celery, fennel and carrot and cook for a 
further 5 minutes. Then add the celery leaves and basil, cook for 1 minute.
4. add the stock or water and bring to the boil. add 
the barley and bay leaf, reduce the heat to low and simmer for 30 minutes. add the potatoes and tomatoes, simmer for 15–20 minutes, making sure the potatoes are soft and the barley is cooked. add more stock or water if necessary. Just before serving, season with salt and stir in the spinach.SoupS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
69* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler, bowls and cup, liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* For vegetable soup— omit 
the barley and add extra vegetables. To the basic recipe, add 2 large potatoes (peeled and diced chunky), 300 g pumpkin (peeled and diced chunky), 2 zucchini (diced), 150 g cabbage (diced), 100 g green beans (tailed and sliced into 2-cm lengths), 75 g spinach leaves (chopped). Add the potato and pumpkin when the stock is added. Add the zucchini, cabbage and green beans with 5 minutes remaining. Stir in the spinach just before serving.
* There is not too much 
difference between this soup and a minestrone. If anything I would tend to simplify the vegetables in this soup, keeping to mostly root vegetables and perhaps a bit of chopped parsley at the end.
* This great winter warmer 
will freeze well but is best made and consumed on the day.
* Grate some parmesan or 
pecorino cheese and sprinkle over the top when serving.* Pearl barley is more 
refined (polished) than hulled barley. It is less chewy and cooks faster than hulled barley, but because it has been polished further, it is less nutritious, which could be said for all grains that become more and more refined.
* I prefer to keep my 
grains in the refrigerator unless I know I’m going to use them within a month. Although the shelf life of barley and other grains is long— 12 months in an 
airtight container, in a cool, dry area— the fact is 
that it takes one larvae and it’s finished. Also, weather permitting, the constant change can have an effect and the natural oils will become rancid sooner than you expect.
* Pearl barley doesn’t 
really need soaking; I do it so it really breaks open in the soup. Hulled barley needs to be soaked for several hours before cooking and needs at least an hour to cook through.------------------------------------
4.  Seafood xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 72Cooking whole fish
Serves 2
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 whole fish, about 1.5 kg cleaned weight
100 ml olive oil2 sprigs fresh rosemary6 sprigs fresh lemon thyme
½ lemon, in wedges
2 garlic cloves, finely sliced
½ bird’s eye chilli, seeds removed and finely sliced
100 ml white wine
½ punnet grape tomatoes
125 ml water12 black mussels, de-bearded and shells scrubbed
¼ cup torn fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c.2. first, ensure all the scales have been removed from 
the fish. Wipe dry inside and out with paper towel. rub with a little of the oil and fill the cavity with the herbs and lemon wedges, then seal shut with several tooth picks.
3. score the skin with a sharp knife making 4–5 
incisions along the thickest part of the fish (not the tail end)—this allows the heat to penetrate the skin and the fish to cook more evenly.
4. heat 1 tablespoon olive oil in a sauté or frying 
pan over low–medium heat, and fry the garlic and chilli without colouring. add the fish and white wine.
5. cook for a further minute, add the tomatoes, water 
and mussels. Place in the oven for approximately 15–20 minutes.
6. remove from the oven and carefully lift the fish on 
to a serving platter, add the parsley to the pan, stir well and pour the sauce over the fish.Seafood-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
73* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
sauté pan or frying pan, spatula, wooden spoon and cup and liquid measures.
* This is just one recipe 
for cooking whole fish— it can 
be grilled, steamed, baked or poached— but the recipe is a 
good basic start.
* Ingredients can be added 
or left out of the recipe, depending on taste. The mussels in this recipe are optional; however, they not only add an additional protein source, but will also create great flavour in the sauce itself.
* It is a growing trend in 
good restaurants to use a meat probe (thermometer) when cooking fish and other meats to ensure that the item is cooked perfectly every time. Even though many years of experience will tell you when it is ready, a meat probe is still favoured when dealing with the ever-increasing expense of fish and other meats and the desire to not waste it by overcooking. For most fish, an internal temperature of 45– 55ºC is 
ideal.* The most important tip to 
consider with this recipe is the freshness and quality of the fish. See Fish in Really Useful Information.
* A very common practice 
for cooking whole fish is wrapping it in foil with a bunch of aromatic herbs and vegetables. The fish is either baked in the oven or cooked on a barbecue grill plate.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 74Crab Cakes
Makes 6 crab cakes
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g fresh or frozen crab meat
2 tablespoons olive oil
½ small onion, chopped
2 large eggs1
½ teaspoons Worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon salt flakes1 teaspoon hot paprika
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 spring onion, sliced2 slices firm white sandwich bread, crusts removed,  
torn into small pieces
1 cup fresh bread crumbs60 g butter
Method:
1. Pick over the crab meat to remove any bits of shell 
and cartilage, being careful not to break up the lumps of crab.
2. heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a pan over medium 
heat and cook the onion without colouring for  5 minutes. remove the pan from the heat and cool.
3. Whisk together the eggs, Worcestershire sauce, 
salt, paprika, pepper and cooled onion.
4. Gently mix in the crab meat, spring onion and torn 
bread. at this stage the mixture will be quite wet.
5. Press the mixture into 6 even-sized crab cakes, 
each one 2 cm thick. line a tray or dinner plate with plastic wrap and sprinkle with half of the bread crumbs. set the crab cakes in one layer on the top of the crumbs and sprinkle with the remaining bread crumbs. cover the crab cakes loosely with more plastic wrap and chill for 1 hour. This is important to help set and hold the crab cakes together when cooking.Seafood 75 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
cup, spoon and weight measures, wooden spoon and sauté pan.
* Crab cakes are an American 
favourite. They can be as simple as fresh crab meat, bread crumbs, eggs and seasoning to something a bit more complex. They can be grilled, baked, pan-fried or deep-fried.
* Make the crab cakes 
smaller and serve as an appetiser or finger food at your next party. Make them well ahead of time and pan-fry once the guests arrive.
* Serve crab cakes with 
aïoli or tartare sauce as well as a simple green salad.
* To reduce the fat content, 
spray the crab cakes with oil and pan-fry instead of cooking in butter and oil as mentioned.* Crab meat is readily 
available at most fish shops. Always pick over the crab meat as often it has bits of shell in it.
* The best option is to 
cook and pick over the crab yourself to guarantee freshness.Method cont.
6. Melt the butter and the remaining olive oil in a 
large nonstick pan over medium–high heat until the butter begins to foam. Cook the crab cakes until golden brown, about 3 minutes on each side.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 76-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Fish Fillets, pan-Fried
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
measure, sauté pan and spatula.
* The time taken to cook fish 
depends on the thickness of the fish fillet. From the head end where most of the bones will be, fish fillets will be quite thick and on a low temperature the fish will take 7–10 minutes to cook through. 
From the tail end where there are no bones, the fillet is half the thickness and may only take 5 minutes to cook through. 
* The protein in fish is very 
delicate, similar to that of egg whites. Egg whites are best cooked over a gentle heat. Fish is the same. I tend to cook the skin side over high heat to impart colour and texture to the skin, I then turn the heat down to the lowest setting and cook it gently and slowly for as long as it takes for the proteins in the fish to just set. 
* Fish need only be seasoned 
with a light sprinkling of salt. If you are a fan of pepper, wait until it is served and then grind some fresh pepper over the top. Black specks of pepper on the soft white flesh of the fish fillet are unappealing and pepper tends to burn in a pan and become bitter. Try white pepper instead.
* To avoid excess smoke in 
the kitchen or on a barbecue, rub the fish with oil rather than adding the oil to the pan or hot plate. This minimal amount of oil is less likely to send a plume of smoke through the house.
* Do not be scared to 
slightly undercook fish. If you have ever eaten sushi or sashimi— Japanese staples 
using raw fish— then the 
notion of fish a bit underdone should set your mind at ease. Undercooked fish will not make you sick unless the fish was old before it was cooked.4 x 200g white fish fillets, 
skin left on
1 tablespoon olive oil
saltMethod:
1. use a sharp knife and lightly score the skin on 
each fish fillet at 1-cm intervals.
2. rub fish with olive oil and season with salt.3. Place the fish fillets, skin side down, in a 
medium–hot nonstick pan and cook without moving for 3 minutes. see hints and tips for cooking times especially if the fish is quite thick.
4. When the skin is crisp and lightly browned, turn 
fillets over, reduce heat to low and cook for a further 3–4 minutes. (The fish is cooked when any juices run clear; if the juices are cloudy, it is still slightly undercooked; and if the juices solidify and turn hard white, the fish is overcooked.)Seafood 77-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, saucepan, 4 x 12-cm diameter, 5-cm deep pie dishes and pastry brush.
* This is a beautiful pie 
recipe and is in stark contrast to the easy-to-make tuna bake.
* To make this really 
special, use the quick puff pastry— although more effort 
is required, the results are well worth it.* If you are concerned about 
bones when buying fish for this dish, request pieces of fish from the tail end as a guarantee of no bones. Or you could ask your supplier to take the bones out and dice the fish for you— at a 
possible extra charge.
* Instead of the puff pastry 
lid, try topping the pie with mashed or crushed potato. Cut some butter into small dice and sprinkle over the mash topping before baking— same 
temperature and time. Or you could sprinkle grated cheese over the mash topping.* From fish pie to seafood 
pie—use the combination 
of seafood mentioned in the recipe for seafood crepes.
* Any number of vegetables 
can be added to this pie, the most common being peas. Adding vegetables is not necessary and if serving with a good salad, there is no need to worry about a lack of greens with this dish.Fish pie
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 tablespoons olive oil
800 g sliced onions400 ml fish stock200 ml creamsalt and pepper800 g white fish fillets1 tablespoon truffle oil 
(optional)
2 spring onions, sliced1 packet frozen puff 
pastry, defrosted
2 egg yolks, lightly 
beaten, for glazingMethod:
1. Preheat oven to 200°C.2. For the sauce— Heat the oil in a pan over low heat 
and add the sliced onions. Cover and sweat gently until 
very soft and translucent, even a little bit of colour is fine. a dd the fish stock and reduce by half. add the 
cream and reduce by half or until a thick consistency is reached. Remove from the heat and puree.
3. In the bottom of each pie dish, place some of the 
sauce and about 200 g fish, some of the spring onions then another layer of the sauce. Repeat in each dish.
4. Cover the dish with the puff pastry, brush with egg 
yolk, set in the fridge for 1 minute and re-coat with egg yolk.
5. Bake for 25–30 minutes on the middle shelf of the 
oven until the pastry is golden and puffed.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 78Garlic prawns
Serves 2
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
10 large green tiger prawns, peeled
1 tablespoon olive oil1 tablespoon butter2 tablespoons crushed garlic200 ml thickened cream1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
Method:
1. remove the vein from the back of the prawn by 
slicing with a knife and scraping out the dark waste tract running the length of the prawn. you can also remove the head of the prawn if you like—if you do, refer to hints and tips.
2. heat the olive oil and butter in a sauté pan. When 
the butter begins to foam, add the prawns and cook for1 minute either side. remove from the pan and set aside.
3. add the garlic to the pan and sauté without 
colouring for 30 seconds then add the cream. simmer, and reduce the cream by one-third. return the prawns to the sauce for 2 minutes, remove from the heat, stir in the parsley and serve.
 Seafood-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
79* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, spoon and liquid measures, sauté pan, tongs and wooden spoon.
* When talking prawns, 
‘green’ refers to them being raw, not their colour. Green prawns can be purchased whole or already peeled and any shop selling seafood knows this term.
* It is worth investing 
in steel soap (a piece of stainless steel in the shape of a soap ‘bar’); it never wears down and it removes the smell of seafood, garlic and onion from your hands without stripping them.
* If you do remove the prawn 
heads, you can add them to a fish stock, or freeze them for when you get around to making the stock. This can be made with 1 onion (roughly chopped), 1 carrot (roughly chopped), 1 celery stick (roughly chopped), 1 kg fish heads or bones, 1 cup dry white wine, 12 peppercorns,  1 bay leaf and enough water to cover in a large pot. Bring to the boil then reduce to a simmer for 1 hour. Strain and either use straightaway or freeze in various-sized containers so you don’t have to defrost the lot and waste any.* Fresh green prawns should 
be consumed the day they are purchased or defrosted; after 24 hours although still edible, they tend to oxidise and blacken.
* Fresh green prawns are 
best but the frozen variety can be used. The frozen prawns are sold as green prawn ‘cutlets’ and should not be mistaken for a crumbed prawn cutlet. The frozen variety is good in that the prawns are snap-frozen while on the fishing trawlers out at sea, guaranteeing an almost perfect fresh/frozen product.
* You can use either basil 
or coriander instead of parsley.
* Chopped chilli can be 
added with the seeds removed.
* This recipe can be served 
as a pasta sauce with long pasta like fettuccine or linguine.
* Alternatively, serve with 
steamed rice or simply with crusty bread and a crisp white wine.* You can omit the cream and 
add 1 cup white wine for a lighter version, but allow several minutes simmering for the wine to reduce. Or use a light cream instead of the heavy cream suggested.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 80-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Prawn cocktail
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, bowls, liquid and spoon measures and the equipment needed to make mayonnaise.
* The prawn cocktail was a 
dinner party hit in the 70s and early 80s, and made a tasteful comeback in some restaurants in the late 90s. It still appears now and then, and if done well will be one dish that will never quite go away.* Depending on the size of 
the prawns, 4– 6 per person 
for an entree is enough. If this is to be more of a substantial dish, then use as many as would fit in the dish.
* Always check prawns for 
freshness, and ask when they were cooked and if frozen, how long they have been frozen for. Waterlogged or tired, old prawns will make this dish horrid.
* At a dinner party, wrap 
half a lemon in muslin or cheesecloth and tie neatly. This will prevent seeds from getting into the salad.* Shred a small handful of 
flat-leaf parsley and mix into the lettuce to give the iceberg lettuce some lift.
* Make bite-sized prawn 
cocktails as finger food by using the inner leaves of cos lettuce as an edible cup—shred some of the outer 
leaves, chop up the prawns and drizzle with the sauce and serve in the smaller inner leaves.1 iceberg lettuce, very 
finely shredded
24–36 fresh cooked prawns, 
peeled with tail intact
2 lemons, sliced into 
wedges
Cocktail sauce
250 ml mayonnaise60 ml Worcestershire sauce60 ml brandy120 ml tomato sauce1 tablespoon grated 
horseradish
salt and pepper60 ml pouring cream, 
lightly whippedMethod:
1. for the cocktail sauce—Mix all ingredients except 
cream. When combined, fold in the whipped cream. refrigerate, covered, until needed.
2. To assemble—There are several ways to put this 
dish together. The old way uses prawn cocktail glasses probably available at a ‘trash and treasure’ market on any given sunday. The new way is to form a small mound of shredded lettuce in the centre of a plate, prop the prawns against the lettuce and drizzle with cocktail sauce, serving each with a lemon wedge.Seafood 81-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
frying pan, cup and spoon measures.
* This recipe yields about 
12 small patties.
* Serve salmon patties with 
a simple green salad and mayonnaise.
* To make salmon 
croquettes— roll the mixture 
into small log shapes, dip in plain flour, then dip in beaten egg and roll in dried bread crumbs. Set on a tray until all are done. Leave in the fridge for 1 hour or so before deep-frying. If you’re not comfortable with deep-frying, then shallow-fry in plenty of butter. Great as finger food served with a tartare sauce or a simple mayonnaise.
* Try adding ½ cup corn 
kernels and ½ cup frozen 
peas to the mixture.
* Use leftover roasted 
vegetables from the previous night’s roast instead of the mashed potato. It will add an extra richness to the patties and is an alternative to making bubble-and-squeak.
* As a healthy option, place 
the patties on a baking tray lined with baking paper and bake in the oven at 220ºC for 10–15 minutes or until hot. 
This way you avoid the excess oil or butter and make the most of the omega 3 from the salmon.
* As a cocktail food, halve 
the size of the patties, fry as per recipe and top each with a dollop of sour cream and a sprig of dill.Salmon pattieS
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 cups mashed potato, room 
temperature
415 g can pink salmon, 
drained
2 spring onions, finely 
chopped
1 tablespoon chopped fresh 
flat-leaf parsley
2 eggs, lightly beaten
1 teaspoon saltfreshly ground black 
pepper
½ cup bread crumbs or 
plain flour
2 tablespoons olive oilMethod:
1. In a bowl, mix the mashed potato, salmon, spring 
onions, parsley, eggs, salt and pepper until thoroughly combined.
2. Shape into patties using a 
½ cup measure—this 
will ensure the patties are all the same shape and 
size. Place on a tray lined with plastic wrap and rest in the fridge for at least 1 hour to allow the mixture to set before cooking.
3. When ready to cook, dip each patty in bread crumbs 
or flour.
4. Heat the oil in a frying pan over medium heat, add 
the salmon patties and cook until golden brown, flip and repeat on the other side.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 82Salt and pepper Squid
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg squid tubes, halved lengthways
250 g rice flour200 g cornflour3 tablespoons salt flakes4 tablespoons ground white pepper2 teaspoons caster sugar4 egg whites, lightly beatenvegetable oil, for deep-frying (approx. 2 litres)lemon or lime wedges, for serving
Method:
1. open out the squid tubes, wash and pat dry. Place 
on a cutting board with the inside facing upwards. score a fine diamond pattern on the squid, being careful not to cut all the way through. cut into pieces about 5 cm x 3 cm. alternatively, keep the tubes whole and slice into rings or cut open as above and slice into strips.
2. combine the rice flour, cornflour, salt, pepper and 
sugar in a bowl. fill a deep-fryer or large saucepan one-third full of oil and heat to 180ºc (350ºf), or until a small cube of white bread dropped into the oil turns golden brown in 15 seconds.
3. Dip the squid into the egg white and then into the 
flour mixture, shaking off any excess. cook batches of the squid for 1–2 minutes, or until the flesh turns white and curls. Drain on paper towels. serve with lemon wedges.Seafood-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
83* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
weight and spoon measures, and a deep-fryer or large, heavy-based pot or wok for deep-frying.
* Squid and calamari are in 
fact two different creatures but are as close as cousins. In this recipe ‘either or’ should be your motto. Try also using the very tasty cuttlefish, a stumpier version of the aforementioned. Never use frozen squid tubes, especially large ones; they are watery and tough and you’d do better with a bag of rubber bands.
* Other pepper can be used 
in this recipe; replace  the white pepper with  2 tablespoons black pepper (crushed and ground) and  2 tablespoons Sichuan pepper. It is recommended that the salt and peppers are dry-toasted in a pan for several minutes, cooled on a tray and then pound in a mortar and pestle or a spice/coffee grinder to enhance their fragrance.
* To check the temperature 
of the oil— other than 
dropping a piece of bread into it— use a sugar 
thermometer.* To dispose of used deep-
frying oil, there are several steps that need to be followed. 1. Allow the oil to cool completely, preferably until the next day.  2. Make sure you keep the container and lid in which the oil came or have an alternative container (like a used milk container with screw-cap lid). 3. If the oil can be used again, it will need to be strained. This can be done through a paper towel-lined sieve, which is placed on a funnel directly over the storage container. 4. If the oil is being kept, keep it in the fridge until it is needed again. This keeps it out of the light and the coldness will keep the oil from turning rancid too soon. 5. If the oil is to be thrown out, pour the cold oil straight into the bottle, fasten the lid and place in the bin. 6. Or, if you deep-fry often, speak to your local council as they may have a collection depot nearby where you can drop off used cooking oil which they then on-sell to companies that make truck fuel or soap—true.* Other flours can be used 
instead of the rice and cornflour mentioned in this recipe. If there is only plain flour in the pantry and the recipe must go ahead, then use plain flour. Self-raising flour will also work. In fact, any type of flour can be used with only minimal difference to the final outcome.
* Other seafood can also be 
adapted to this recipe. Try thinly sliced white-fleshed fish, or whole scallops. Some fish may not work quite as well and these include most oily fish like salmon, tuna, marlin and swordfish.
* Serve these tasty seafood 
morsels with a dipping sauce. Tartare sauce, thousand island dressing, sweet chilli, soy sauce or shoyu are all recommended. Accompaniments like lemon, lime, fresh chilli and coriander can also be served on the side.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 84Seafood crepeS
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g butter 
1 tablespoon olive oil500 g white fish fillets, diced12 green prawns, peeled, de-veined and sliced12 local mussels, cooked and removed from shell250 g crab meat, cooked
½ teaspoon crushed garlic
100 ml white wine1 tablespoon chopped fresh dillsalt and pepper1 recipe quantity mornay sauce12 savoury crepes
Method:
1. heat the butter and oil in a pan. as the butter 
begins to foam, add the fish and prawns. When almost cooked, add the mussels and crab meat. sauté for another 2 minutes on high heat.
2. add the garlic, sauté quickly without colouring 
and then pour in the wine, sprinkle in the dill and season. remove from the heat and drain juices into a bowl.
3. Mix the seafood with the mornay sauce, adding some 
of the seafood juices if too thick.
4. spoon into crepes and roll, folding in the ends as 
each crepe is being rolled. Place on a tray lined  with baking paper, and bake in a hot oven (220ºc) for 3 minutes.Seafood-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
85* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
pot, wooden spoon, weight, spoon and liquid measures, baking tray, baking paper and equipment needed for making crepes and mornay sauce.
* There are 3 recipes 
required for this dish so take your time and use the experience for a special occasion.
* The crepes can be made 
well in advance and kept frozen until the day they are needed.
* The mornay sauce is best 
made and kept warm ready for the seafood. The warm sauce and the hot seafood will be easier to mix together, providing an evenly dispersed seafood filling.
* The crepes can be filled 
and refrigerated the day before they are to be baked. Do not freeze as the mornay sauce will become watery.
* Dill can be substituted 
with fennel tops. If either of these herbs cannot be found, then parsley, chervil, tarragon, chives or lemon thyme could be used.* Crab meat is available 
already picked from seafood shops. I recommend picking over the meat as the pre-picked stuff will almost certainly have some shell  in it.
* You will notice the 
cooking time of the seafood is minimal. Adhere to the quick cooking time to avoid overcooking the seafood when baked in the crepes.
* Leftover seafood filling 
can be used to make a seafood pie. Use pre-made puff pastry from the freezer section of the supermarket. Place the filling in individual ceramic dishes, top with a disc of puff pastry, brush with beaten egg and bake at 180ºC for 20 minutes or until the pastry is flaky and golden brown.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 86Tuna bake
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
800 ml mornay sauce
2 tablespoons olive oil1 medium onion, finely diced2 celery sticks, diced1 red capsicum, diced1 cob corn, kernels removed310 g can creamed corn425 g can tuna in spring water, drained and crumbled3 cups cooked pasta or rice
¼ cup chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
salt and pepper200 g fresh bread crumbsgrated zest of 1 lemon
½ cup grated parmesan
Method:
1. Place the mornay sauce in a bowl and set aside.2. heat a nonstick pan over medium heat, add the 
oil, onion and celery and cook without colouring for 3 minutes. add the capsicum and corn and cook for a further 2 minutes. remove from the heat and cool.
3. add the creamed corn to the mornay sauce, and mix 
with a wooden spoon. Then add the tuna, cooked pasta or rice, parsley, salt and pepper to taste and the cooled onion mixture, stir until well combined and place in a deep baking dish.
4. in a separate bowl, mix the bread crumbs, lemon 
zest and parmesan and mix until well combined. sprinkle over the tuna mixture and bake at 180ºc for 30 minutes.Seafood-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
87* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
liquid, spoon and cup measures, saucepan, bowls, baking dish and wooden spoon.
* The simplest version of 
tuna bake is to omit all the vegetables and just mix tuna, cooked pasta or rice and the mornay sauce, place in a baking dish, top the lot with grated cheese and bake for 20 minutes— for 
teenagers and those who can’t be bothered, it can be that easy, if somewhat boring, so maybe try adding frozen peas and drained canned corn for colour.
* Easier again is to not 
make the cheese sauce, just mix the tuna, cooked pasta,  500 g sour cream and 250 g grated cheese together and bake.
* An alternative topping is 
to cut the crust off a bread stick or ciabatta and roughly chop into pieces, sprinkle over the top and bake.
* Try mashing 1 kg potatoes 
mixed with butter and cream and spreading over the filling before baking.* If you don’t like tuna, 
then try crispy fried bacon; use 8 rashers, chopped and fried, for this recipe. If you don’t eat meat, omit it altogether. But without tuna it simply becomes a pasta bake of any sort.
* Use short pasta for this 
recipe— like orecchiette, 
shell, macaroni or fusilli.
* Try adding leftover 
roasted vegetables, chopped and stirred into the mixture before baking.------------------------------------
5 .  P o u l t r y xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 90Apricot chicken
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
8 chicken thigh fillets
salt and pepper2 tablespoons vegetable oil or olive oil40 g packet f rench onion soup
425 g can apricot nectar
Method:
1. Trim the thigh fillets of any excess fat then season 
with salt and pepper. over medium heat, fry the chicken in the oil for 3 minutes on each side or until golden brown.
2. Mix the packet soup and the apricot nectar in a 
bowl; pour over the chicken when browned on both sides. if the pan has a lid, cover and reduce the heat to low and cook gently for 15 minutes. if there is no lid, cover with foil and bake in the oven at 180ºc for 15 minutes.
3. serve immediately with salad, rice or vegetables.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
91* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
sauté or frying pan, tongs and wooden spoon.
* It is recommended to use 
chicken thigh fillets for this dish as they stay moist and tender with the extra cooking time. With chicken breast, there is always the possibility of overcooking the meat and making it dry and chewy.
* The above recipe is as 
basic as it could get. To make this dish more exciting while still keeping the name, try replacing the apricot nectar with 200 g apricot chutney, 8 dried apricots (quartered) and 250 ml chicken stock. Replace the packet onion soup by frying 2 garlic cloves (chopped) and 1 small onion (diced) in 2 tablespoons olive oil. The sauce can be thickened by dusting the chicken pieces in plain flour before browning.
* For gluten-intolerance, 
follow the previous tip, then, instead of dusting in plain flour before browning, use a gluten-free flour (see p. 494).
* Sometimes apricot chicken 
is cooked with canned apricots as well as the apricot nectar; this is, of course, a personal choice and if so desired add a can of apricot halves to the mixture.
* Whole chicken pieces on 
the bone can be used, like chicken drumsticks. If this were to happen, extend the cooking time by 15 minutes and keep an eye on the sauce as it may dry out with the extra cooking time. Keep it saucy by adding 
¼ cup water 
or chicken stock every 10– 15 
minutes.
* For extra kick, add 1 
bird’s eye chilli (sliced thinly) to the sauce before it goes onto the chicken.
* For extra flavour, once the 
chicken has been browned, add 100 ml white wine to the pan, reduce by half, and then add the sauce mixture.
* Alternatives to apricots 
in this recipe include dry or canned peaches or mangoes, and peach or mango nectar.
* If microwaving this dish 
(or any chicken dish) and the skin is still intact, the skin will need to be pierced with a skewer in several spots to allow the steam to escape to avoid the chicken ‘popping’ and splattering in the microwave oven.* Serve with mashed potato, 
steamed rice or couscous.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 92ChiCken kiev
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Butter filling
185 g butter, softenedsalt and pepper2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley1 tablespoon chopped fresh chives
¼ teaspoon grated lemon zest
4 chicken breast fillets3 eggs
¼ cup milk or water
½ teaspoon salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ cup flour
1 cup dried bread crumbsvegetable oil, for deep-frying (about 1 litre)
Method:
1. for the butter filling—combine the butter with all 
the ingredients, mix well. Divide the mixture into 4 and shape into 4 rolls. refrigerate until very firm.
2. Place each chicken breast between a sheet of baking 
paper and pound, using a meat mallet or rolling pin, to about 1.5 cm thick; be careful not to ‘break’ the chicken—if it does tear, fold part of the chicken over the torn area. Wrap and refrigerate until seasoned butter is cold and hard.
3. When the butter is firm, place 1 piece on each 
chicken breast, fold in edges of chicken and roll to encase butter completely.
4. in a small bowl, beat eggs with milk or water. in a 
shallow dish, mix together the salt, pepper and flour. Place the bread crumbs in a separate shallow dish. Dip the chicken rolls in the seasoned flour, then the egg mixture, then the crumbs. repeat by dipping in the egg mixture again then the bread crumbs. Place in a shallow dish, cover and refrigerate for 1 hour.Poultry 93Method cont.
5. Heat the oil in a large pot over medium–high heat. 
When the oil is hot, deep-fry the chicken rolls for about 3 minutes, then roll over and continue to fry for another 3 minutes or until golden and cooked through. Do not have the oil too hot or the breadcrumbs will brown too quickly before the chicken is cooked through.
6. Drain on paper towels, serve with lemon wedges.
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
spoon, cup and liquid measures, several bowls, a frying pan and spatula.
* How easy would it be to 
buy those nasty excuses for Kiev from the freezer section of the supermarket? But the satisfaction for a young or inexperienced cook to make their own is very gratifying, and there’s much personal satisfaction whenever they triumph over a dish— whether 
it’s chicken Kiev or another recipe.
* One of the main dangers 
of this dish is burning the breadcrumbs on the outside before the inside is cooked. Therefore, it is worth paying a great deal of attention to this stage of the cooking to ensure a successful result.
* The uncooked Kievs could 
be frozen for another day. In which case, defrost overnight in the refrigerator, then re-roll in bread crumbs before cooking to help guarantee a crunchy outside.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 94ChiCken liver parfait
Serves 8–10 as an entree
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
50 g butter
olive oil1 small onion, finely diced2 sprigs fresh thyme1 garlic clove1 bay leaf1 pinch of freshly grated nutmeg2 teaspoons saltpinch of pepper200 ml vermouth60 ml brandy60 ml port500 g chicken livers, cleaned and drained4 eggs150 g butter, melted and cooled
Method:
1. Preheat oven to 100ºc.2. heat the butter and a splash of oil over medium 
heat. add the onion, thyme, garlic, bay leaf, nutmeg, salt and pepper and sauté until the onion is transparent.
3. add the alcohol and cook until reduced by half. 
remove from the heat and cool completely.
4. Pour the onion mixture into a food processor, blitz 
and add the chicken livers and eggs and finish with the melted and cooled butter.
5. Pass the mixture through a very fine sieve. Pour 
into a ceramic terrine mould or loaf tin, place the tin in a roasting pan, add hot water to reach halfway up the sides of the mould and bake for approximately 1.5 hours or until the parfait is set like firm jelly through to the centre.
6. remove from the oven and cool on a cake rack. 
refrigerate overnight before slicing.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
95* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
and liquid measures, saucepan, wooden spoon, plastic spatula, fine sieve, food processor or blender, loaf tin or terrine mould  and roasting dish.
* Chicken livers are 
available from butchers and most supermarkets. If you can get them, free range is best. If replacing with duck livers, you may need to inform your butcher in advance or they may be more readily available at good delicatessens.
* To prepare chicken livers, 
first rinse and drain. Then using a small sharp knife, set about peeling off any membrane and cutting off any excess fat attached to the livers. Much of the membrane missed in cleaning will be caught when straining through a fine sieve before cooking.
* The most important thing 
to remember about making a liver parfait is that it only needs to just set. It is very similar to a baked custard in that it should still wobble in the centre as it will continue to cook as it cools. If overcooked, it will be very noticeable when set cold as it will be slightly crumbly and grainy in texture.
* The parfait can be cooked 
at a higher temperature for a shorter period— 150ºC for 45 
minutes– 1 hour. The only real 
risk here is that the outside of the parfait will be just a bit more overcooked compared to the centre.
* Cooking the parfait in 
individual ceramic ramekins (moulds) will also reduce the cooking time— 150ºC for about 
30 minutes.
* Covered, the parfait will 
keep for 3– 4 days in the 
fridge.
* For storage before use, 
melt 150 g butter and pour over the cold parfait before placing back in the fridge.
* Some recipes call for the 
addition of green peppercorns (in brine). For the given recipe, use 1 tablespoon green peppercorns, washed and dried and stirred through the mixture before pouring into the terrine mould (or loaf pan).The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 96Crispy skin ChiCken breast
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 chicken breast fillets, skin on
salt and pepper2 tablespoons olive oil
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc.2. season the skin of the chicken breasts with salt 
and pepper.
3. heat the oil in a pan over medium–high heat. add 
the chicken breasts, skin side down. cook until skin is well browned. Do not turn over, but place in the oven for 7–10 minutes depending on how big the chicken breasts are.
4. serve immediately with vegetables or couscous with 
preserved lemon and saffron.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
97* You will need— sauté 
pan or frying pan with an 
ovenproof handle and baking tray.
* The reason for not turning 
the chicken in the pan and browning the other side is so it doesn’t break or rupture the surface of the flesh and allow moisture to escape. As soon as it comes out of the oven, turn the chicken over so the skin stays crispy.
* The chicken is done when 
it is firm to the touch. It is okay to slice the breast in half to check for doneness. If the chicken is still a bit undercooked when sliced, place back in the pan or on the tray and return to the oven for an extra 2 minutes.
* For rosemary skewers—
using a bamboo or metal skewer, pierce each breast through the middle, lengthways. Then skewer each breast with a long rosemary sprig through the hole left by the bamboo or metal skewer. Cook as per the instructions.
* Try making a herb butter 
using 2 tablespoons chopped fresh herbs and 1 garlic clove (finely chopped) mixed into 4 tablespoons butter. Place under the skin of the chicken breast and cook as suggested. As the butter melts and the skin becomes crisp, baste the breast with the melted butter.
* For a simple sauce for 
this dish— remove the breast 
from the pan and set aside. Place the pan back on the heat. Add 
½ cup white wine 
or water to the pan to lift any cooked-on chicken juices (i.e. deglaze the pan). Reduce slightly then add some salt and pepper to taste. Remove from the heat and add 2 tablespoons butter and stir until melted— do not 
re-boil or the sauce will separate. Serve the chicken and drizzle with the sauce. Try adding a cup of mushrooms to the pan as the chicken is cooking then continue to make the sauce mentioned with the mushrooms in it. Also, the butter can be replaced with 
½ cup cream, keep it on 
the heat and reduce by half before serving.
* Cook an extra chicken 
breast at the same time and keep refrigerated for lunch the following day. Use in a salad or chop and mix with homemade mayonnaise.
* Often, recipes will ask 
for chicken breast skin off—this is, of course, 
for health reasons which I fully endorse, but is entirely unnecessary. The skin provides protection for the soft, tender meat, while at the same time basting the breast with its own fat adds flavour. Therefore, my suggestion for the health conscious is to cook it with the skin on and remove the skin once cooked, then pat the breast meat dry using paper towel to remove excess fat and oil.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 98Peking duck
Serves 2–4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 g plain flour
230 ml hot watersesame oil1 red roasted duck (purchased from a chinese barbecue 
shop)
plum sauce or hoisin sauce1 bunch spring onions, white and light green parts sliced 
on an angle
1 continental cucumber, seeds removed and cut into batons
Method:
1. To make the Mandarin pancakes, mix the flour, hot 
water and 2 tablespoons sesame oil in a bowl to form a smooth dough. knead to stretch the gluten. allow to rest for 30 minutes before rolling.
2. roll out the dough to form a long thin log and cut 
into pieces. roll out one ball at a time and brush with some sesame oil on one side. roll out the next, again brushing with oil, then sandwich the two oiled sides together; continue until all the dough has been used.
3. in a sauté pan or on the barbecue hotplate, cook the 
double pancakes for 2 minutes on each side. remove and separate, folding each pancake in half, then half again; then steam for 10 minutes to ensure they are chewy and fully cooked. alternatively, cook each pancake on the hotplate on low–medium heat for 2–3 minutes each side; however, they will be a bit drier and tougher. last resort is to buy pre-made pancakes (which are never as good).
4. remove the skin from the duck and slice. Traditionally 
it is the skin and a very small amount of the meat which is served in the pancakes as a first course.
5. To assemble, lay out some of the cooked and slightly 
warm pancakes, smear with some plum sauce or hoisin sauce, add some of the duck meat, duck skin, cucumber batons and spring onion slices, then roll and serve.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
99* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
rolling pin, sauté or frying pan, steamer (optional) and liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* Peking duck makes an 
excellent starter or entree at a dinner party. Although some work is required in making the pancakes, it more than makes up for not having to make the Peking duck itself. It would be too stressful (even for professional cooks) to attempt the duck at home, which is why some things are best left for restaurants.
* A quick way to make Peking 
duck at home is to buy everything pre-done from a good Chinese restaurant or barbecue shop and simply put it together at home. This is a great way for a beginner cook to get the idea of what Peking duck is. From there they can advance to making the pancakes and then on to a 3-course Peking meal.
* Traditionally, Peking duck 
is a 3-course mini banquet. First, the duck is presented and carved at the table with the crispy skin and a small amount of the meat used in the pancakes. The remaining duck is taken back to the kitchen where the highly skilled chefs prepare the remaining 2 courses from the one duck. The pancakes are followed by a soup course then a stir-fry course. Some chefs pride themselves on making as many dishes as possible from the one bird.
* At a cocktail party, 
Peking duck will always be a hit and never out of fashion.
* Leftover pancakes can be 
frozen. Wrap flat in plastic wrap and place in a clip lock bag. Defrost in the refrigerator overnight.
* Hoisin sauce is a thick, 
reddish-brown sauce made from brown bean sauce, garlic, mild chilli, salt, spices and additives (check labels). Brands can vary in taste and texture, some being particularly sweet and red, while better brands are more rounded in flavour, less sweet and browner. Hoisin is used extensively in Chinese cooking, in sauces, sauce mixes, marinades (pork and chicken) and for glazing. Translated, ‘hoi sin’ means ‘sea freshness’, although it neither contains nor is used with seafood. Also known as ‘Chinese barbecue sauce’ (nothing like the Western version of barbecue sauce), it is found in Asian grocers and supermarkets.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 100Roast chicken
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 x 1.8 kg chicken
saltolive oil
Method:
1. rinse the chicken in cold water washing inside and 
out, and remove any deposits of fat in the cavity. Pat dry with paper towel—this step is very important.
2. sprinkle the skin with salt, cover with plastic 
wrap and set aside for 30 minutes. see hints and tips.
3. remove the plastic wrap, pat dry again, rub with 
olive oil and lightly season with salt a second time.
4. Place in a preheated 180ºc oven for 1 hour. The 
chicken is ready when the juices in the leg joint run clear; if the juices are still a bit pink, roast for another 10 minutes.
5. remove from the oven and rest for 15 minutes before 
carving.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
101* You will need— roasting 
dish, paper towel, carving 
knife and tongs.
* This is the most basic 
recipe for a roast chicken I could come up with. Once this basic method is mastered, many ingredients can be added to enhance the roast, such as other spices or dry herbs to the outside and stuffing to the inside.
* The idea of rinsing and 
patting dry the chicken is to remove any blood and to increase the crispness of the skin. Salting the skin and resting the chicken also increases the crispy skin by drawing out moisture.
* Stuffing the cavity with 
cut lemon, herbs and flavours like garlic and ginger can add to the flavour, but in my experience it is almost undetectable for an everyday roast. I would suggest filling the cavity with a basic stuffing to add value to the meal.
* Trussing a chicken is a 
more advanced technique and one worth looking into if roast chicken is something you think you may do often. The idea is that it holds the wings and legs close to the body of the chicken, which in turn helps the bird keep moist as well as making it a good-looking roast. It is a method that needs to be shown to understand and if you are keen, might I suggest going to your local butcher and have them show you how it is done.
* Should the chicken be 
browning too soon, lower the temperature or cover with foil to finish off. Perhaps the thermometer in your oven is broken.
* Try roasting the chicken 
slightly elevated from the base of the roasting pan. Use a trivet or small cake rack covered with a piece of baking paper. This will allow the heat to circulate around the roast, evenly browning all over.
* While resting, gather the 
juices at the base of the pan and pour them over the chicken. Or pour the juices into a small saucepan, add  1 cup chicken stock or white wine or water. Bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper and thicken with  1 teaspoon cornflour mixed with 1 teaspoon cold water. Stir into the sauce as it boils.
* To make a simple stuffing—
place 6– 8 slices fresh bread 
(crust removed and diced) in a bowl with 1 cup milk. Stand for 20 minutes for the bread to absorb the milk. Mix with salt and pepper and any flavours— herbs and 
spice—that you have handy. 
Any combination of crispy fried bacon, sautéed onion and garlic, or dried fruits can be mixed into the soft bread mixture.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 102Roast duck with cheRRy sauce
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 x size 15 (1.5 kg) ducks, rinsed, necks and  
wing tips removed
2 brown onions, skin on and roughly chopped
2 carrots, washed and roughly chopped2 celery sticks, washed and roughly choppedzest of 1 orange1 teaspoon butter250 ml white wine (chardonnay)250 ml reduced brown duck stock (optional, see hints 
and tips)
500 g fresh cherries, pitted, crushed and chopped 
roughly
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper2 tablespoons cornflour mixed with 1 tablespoon  
cold water
Method:
1. There are two ways to begin this dish. one is to 
place the ducks on the chopped vegetables, season with 
salt and pepper and roast in the oven at 180°c for 1
½ 
hours. My method is to place the ducks in a pot with the necks and wing tips, cover with water and bring to the boil, then simmer for 30 minutes (this removes fat and impurities, and is the beginning of a duck stock). Then i transfer the duck to the tray of vegetables and brown in the oven at 200°c for 45 minutes. choose the method that best suits you—either way i tend to do this job the day before i serve the final dish.
2. sauté the orange zest in the butter, add the wine 
and reduce by half. add the stock and reduce by one-quarter.
3. add the cherries with any juices, season with salt 
and pepper and thicken with the cornflour paste.Poultry 103 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, large stock pot, saucepan  and large roasting tray.
* For the stock— the best 
way to make use of the water the ducks have simmered in is to continue to simmer it while roasting the ducks. When the ducks have cooked, remove them from the tray of vegetables and continue to roast the vegetables until brown all over, then add these to the stock to add colour. When the ducks have cooled, remove the bones as mentioned in the method, add the bones to the stock, continue to simmer for 2– 3 
hours, then strain the stock. Place the strained stock back on the heat and simmer until reduced to 1 litre. It is important that from the beginning, any fat and impurities that float to the top are removed with a ladle; this is done to avoid making the stock cloudy and soapy tasting.
* For duck in orange 
sauce—use the same method 
but replace the cherries in the sauce with the juice of 6 oranges and the zest of 3 oranges. The wine and duck stock stay the same, as does thickening with cornflour.
* When thickening with 
cornflour, remember to add small amounts at a time, bringing the sauce back to the boil between each addition until the right consistency is reached.Method cont.
4. If the duck is pre-roasted, then it gives you the 
chance to remove most of the bones. to do this, cut the ducks in half lengthways, remove the breast bones and thigh bones, leaving only the wing bones and the drumstick bones intact. (these excess bones then go into the stock.)
5. reheat the duck in the oven at 200ºC for 10 
minutes. Slice and serve coated with the sauce. Serve with asparagus and baked potato in cream.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 104Roast tuRkey buffet
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 turkey buffet (approximately 3.5 kg)
olive oilsalt and pepper500 g rindless bacon rashers
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.2. use paper towel to pat the turkey breast dry inside 
and out. rub with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place on a roasting tray and lay the bacon rashers over the breast, then roast in the oven for  45 minutes.
3. remove the bacon, baste the turkey with pan juices 
and cook for a further 45 minutes, basting at least  3 more times.
4. allow 30 minutes cooking time per kilogram, 
therefore a 3.5-kg buffet will take approximately  1
¾ hours. always test with a skewer, making sure the 
juices run clear after inserting and removing the skewer.
5. When cooked, remove, cover with foil and rest for 
15–30 minutes (depending on size) before carving. resting time ensures the juices settle throughout the meat, leaving the entire breast moist and tender.Poultry-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
105* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
measure and roasting tray.
* The turkey buffet is the 
first choice of chefs as it can provide large quantities of moist, white turkey meat and little wastage. Although turkey drumsticks may appear to be succulent, they are tougher and chewier than their chicken equivalents.
* Depending on numbers, 
about 400 g raw weight per person should do. This means for 8 people you will be looking at a buffet breast around 3– 3.5 kg.
* If serving at Christmas, 
allow for the fact that several other meats are usually served at the Christmas table and that leftover turkey meat is a prized item over the following few days.
* 50 g butter for basting 
may be substituted for olive oil.
* If there are not enough 
cooking juices to baste, sprinkle with hot water.
* Remove the turkey from 
the fridge to allow ample time for it to reach room temperature before cooking.* Never cook a partially 
thawed bird; the bird may appear cooked through, but if the internal flesh has not reached 75ºC, dangerous micro-organisms may have survived.
* When roasting meats, a 
wise investment is a digital meat thermometer (probe) which is inserted into the thickest part of the meat and away from any fat or bones (which have a higher temperature reading while cooking) as it goes into the oven and stays there the entire time the meat is roasted.
* Cook fresh poultry within 
2 or 3 days of purchasing.
* If ample cooking juices 
remain once the turkey has been cooked, use to baste roast vegetables for added flavour.
* Leftover turkey is ideal 
for sandwiches and salads the next day. Try the chef’s salad.------------------------------------
6 .  M e a t xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 1081.5 kg cooked leg ham
whole cloves125 ml fruit juice (orange, pineapple or apple)3 tablespoons Dijon mustard3 tablespoons brown sugar1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar125 ml white wine
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.2. carefully slice the skin from the ham, score the 
surface fat with a diamond pattern and place in a deep baking dish. Press a clove in the centre of each diamond.
3. To make the glaze—in a bowl, mix the juice, 
mustard, brown sugar and vinegar. Brush the glaze over the prepared ham.
4. Pour the white wine into the baking dish to prevent 
the ham from sticking (or use baking paper if wine is not available). Bake the ham, basting occasionally, for approximately 30 minutes or until glossy and deep golden.Baked ham
Serves 6–8xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxMeat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
109* You will need— bowl, spoon 
and liquid measures and deep 
baking dish.
* Remember the ham has to fit 
in both the fridge and the oven; so depending on the size, this may mean removing a shelf in the fridge and 1 or 2 shelves from the oven.
* Leftover baked ham 
is great in sandwiches, frittata, omelette or salads.
* Try the recipe for chef’s 
salad for leftover Christmas ham and turkey.
* Ham freezes well, in 
which case cut into large pieces and freeze. Remove and defrost overnight before slicing thinly for sandwiches. Ham will last about 2 months in the freezer before it begins to break down slightly.
* Try adding 2 minced garlic 
cloves to the glaze and use maple syrup or honey instead of brown sugar.
* For extra flavour, pour 
the glaze over the ham and marinate in the fridge for 24 hours, turning every 6 hours, then bake and baste.
* If you own a meat 
thermometer, cook the ham to 65ºC (internal), keeping the thermometer clear of any bone in the meat.
* Or allow 20 minutes 
cooking time for every 1 kg of meat.
* Other alcohol can replace 
the fruit juice and wine; for an adult-themed ham, use beer or bourbon as a substitute. I’ve even eaten a ‘bourbon and coke’ baked ham, the coke replacing the fruit juice and the bourbon replacing the wine—and it was wicked.
* Carving a ham on the bone 
may seem a daunting task if you are unfamiliar with the way the bone bends its way through the plump layer of meat. To make life easier, an ‘Easy Carve’ ham has been produced which looks identical to the full bone ham—it even has its knuckle 
bone left in for you to hang on to as you carve easily into the balloon of meat attached.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 110BarBecue-style spare riBs
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 teaspoon c ajun spice
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon ground cumin2 tablespoons barbecue sauce1 rack baby back ribs of pork (see h ints and tips)
1 tablespoon olive oil1 medium onion, chopped150 ml white vinegar250 ml tomato sauce250 ml chicken stock2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce1 teaspoon salt1 teaspoon cayenne pepper
Method:
1. in a bowl, mix the cajun spice, oregano, ground 
cumin and barbecue sauce together, rub into the ribs and leave to marinate for 2 hours. Make the sauce while the ribs are marinating.
2. for the sauce—heat the oil in a saucepan over 
medium heat and sauté the onion until softened. add remaining ingredients; stir well. Bring to the boil, reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. remove from the heat and cool.
3. in a bamboo, metal or electric steamer, place the 
racks of ribs and steam for 45–60 minutes. remove the ribs from the steamer and cool.
4. Preheat the oven to 180°c.5. cover the ribs with the sauce and roast in the oven 
for 20–25 minutes, constantly basting. or grill on the barbecue grill or hotplate on the lowest setting and to the side, to avoid burning them. The meat is done when a skewer goes through the meat like it’s soft butter.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
111* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
spoon and liquid measures, wooden spoon, saucepan, steamer, and roasting tray.
* Although this recipe is 
intended for 4, it may only serve 2 depending on the size of the ribs.
* There are two styles of 
rib used— the ‘spare ribs’ 
are generally meatier and are cut from the stomach area, whereas the ‘back ribs’ or ‘baby back ribs’ are cut from the area closer to the spine and are also more curved in appearance. Both styles are ideal for this recipe.
* Ribs and other tough cuts 
of meat on the bone have a lot of strong tissue that holds the muscle together and binds it to the bone. They have a lot of flavour, but this connective tissue is only softened by long, gentle cooking. This can be accomplished in several ways. One way is to cook on indirect heat on the barbecue for hours and hours on end, the indirect heat being the area of the barbecue that is off but has enough heat in it from the area of the barbecue that is on. The other way is used in the method provided which takes a lot less time, and which may offend the traditionalists, especially because you don’t need to use a barbecue for this recipe, hence the word ‘style’.
* Although the method asks 
that the ribs are steamed, they can also be parboiled (simmered) for the same amount of time. To do this, parboil until the meat is tender and just about falling off the bone. Cooking much beyond that will tend to dry out and reduce the flavour in the meat.
* Available in some 
supermarkets and butchers is ‘liquid smoke’— add 
½ 
teaspoon to the marinating rub for an authentic ‘barbecue’ flavour without even touching the hotplate.
* Remember to sauce only for 
the last 30 minutes once the meat is cooked and tender or it will burn.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 112Beef casserole
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 onion, diced3 garlic cloves, crushed1 teaspoon chopped rosemary1 kg chuck or blade steak, trimmed and cut into cubes300 ml red wine400 ml beef stock100 g tomato paste4 tablespoons cornflour2 tablespoons cold water2 potatoes, peeled and cut into 5-cm dice2 carrots, peeled and chopped2 celery sticks, trimmed and coarsely chopped150 g button mushrooms, halvedsalt and pepper
¼ bunch coarsely chopped flat-leaf parsley
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160°c.2. heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large heavy-based 
saucepan on medium–low heat. sauté the onion, garlic and rosemary for 3–4 minutes or until softened. Transfer to a large casserole dish.
3. cook the beef in 2 batches until browned, using  
1 tablespoon oil for each batch. add the browned beef to the onions.
4. keep the saucepan on the heat and add the wine, 
stock and paste. Bring to the boil stirring well to lift the cooked-on meat juices. Mix the cornflour and cold water to a paste and add to the boiling sauce. simmer for 3 minutes.
5. add the potatoes, carrots and celery to the 
casserole dish. Pour the hot sauce over the casserole and bake, covered, for 1 hour.Meat113 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
heavy-based saucepan, casserole dish, liquid, weight and spoon measures, vegetable peeler and wooden spoon.
* There are only 3 things to 
serve with this great winter warmer— creamy mashed potato, 
crisp steamed green beans and crusty bread. A good glass of red wine and great company is also highly recommended.
* This recipe is rich in 
red wine which may be too strong for some, in which case reduce the wine by half and replace with extra beef stock. This dish is still very successful with no wine at all, just substitute for beef stock.* This dish will last in the 
fridge for 5 days. It also freezes well for up to  3 months.
* Use leftovers to make a 
chunky beef pie.Method cont.
6. Mix through the mushrooms, season with salt and 
pepper to taste and continue to bake, this time uncovered, for a further 45–60 minutes or until the beef is very tender. Remove from the oven and stir through the parsley.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
-------------------------- The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 114Beef stroganoff
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
600 g beef fillet or rump
2 tablespoons olive oil3 tablespoons butter1 medium onion, finely chopped150 ml white wine150 ml fresh creamsalt and pepper200 g sour cream1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
Method:
1. cut the beef into strips 1 cm x 5 cm, trimming off 
any fat or gristle.
2. Place 1 tablespoon oil and 1 tablespoon butter 
in a frying pan over high heat, and when the butter begins to foam, add half the beef and cook rapidly for the beef to brown but still be underdone. Place the beef in a colander or strainer to drain. repeat this process.
3. Place the pan back on the heat and add the 
remaining butter to the pan, add the onion and cook gently until softened.
4. add the wine and reduce to one-third, then add 
the cream and reduce by half. add the beef, stir and season with salt and pepper. Bring to the boil and remove from the heat. stir in the sour cream.
5. Place in a serving dish and sprinkle with the 
parsley.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
115* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, tongs, 
wooden spoon, colander or strainer and spoon, weight and liquid measures.
* The history of many 
dishes is often surrounded by conflicting theories as to their origins— and beef 
stroganoff is no different. What is known is that it is a Russian dish made in the late 19th century and definitely named after a famous person by the name of Stroganoff. The year it was made is argued about as is the person— either the diplomat 
Count Paul Stroganoff or Count Pavel Stroganoff, a celebrity of that era.
* It is recommended to 
cook the beef in 2 or even 3 batches to keep the heat high in the pan so the beef actually fries and colours and does not become grey and stew in its own juices. Draining the beef only serves to stop the beef stewing in the residual heat in a pool of its own juices. These juices can be kept and used to thin the sauce at the end of cooking should it get too thick.
* This is a very fast 
cooking dish which is why lean, tender cuts of meat are used.* Often mushrooms are added 
to this dish, although not traditionally. If wanting to add mushrooms, use 200 g button mushrooms cut into quarters. After browning the beef, fry the mushrooms using an extra tablespoon of butter, until cooked through, then drain in the colander with the beef. Then continue with the recipe as stated.
* Beef stroganoff is great 
served with fettuccine tossed in butter or with plain rice.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
roughly chopped gherkins, sprinkled over the top before serving.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 116Bolognaise sauce
Makes about 2 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 tablespoons olive oil
1 large onion, finely chopped4 garlic cloves, crushed1 carrot, peeled and finely chopped or grated1 celery stick, finely chopped or grated1 bay leaf200 g bacon, diced1 kg beef or pork mince or a combination of the two2 x 400 g cans diced tomatoes2 tablespoons tomato pastesalt and pepper
Method:
1. in a large pot or casserole dish, heat the oil over 
medium heat. add the onion, garlic, carrot and celery, and cook until softened and aromatic. add the bay leaf and bacon, and cook for a further 3 minutes.
2. Turn up the heat, add the mince and stir with a 
wooden spoon for 5 minutes to break up the mince and give it a bit of colour. it doesn’t need to be browned all over.
3. add the tomatoes and tomato paste, bring to the 
boil, then reduce the heat to low and cook gently for 2–3 hours, stirring occasionally and adding water or stock should the sauce become too thick. season well with salt and pepper.
4. serve immediately, or cool and refrigerate for  
1 week or freeze for up to 3 months.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
117* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
and spoon measures, several bowls for the chopped ingredients, large pot or casserole dish and wooden spoon.
* There are as many versions 
of bolognaise sauce as there are Italian mammas cooking it, and so this is just one more.
* The addition of celery 
and carrot is probably the first point of contention— to 
add or not to add. These two ingredients certainly do contribute to the overall flavour, but more importantly add a natural sweetness to counterbalance any tartness of the tomatoes.
* Grating the carrot 
and celery will help it ‘disappear’ in the sauce and look as if it was never added.
* The meat used in a 
bolognaise sauce is of great importance. Lean beef, although sounding healthy, will dry out after the required cooking time as it lacks any connective tissue and fat to keep the meat moist and unctuous. Adding a 50/50 ratio of beef mince and pork mince will help. Veal mince is also highly recommended.
* Making your own mince 
is easy if you own a food processor. Simply buy about 1.2 kg beef, like chuck, skirt or blade. Remove any large pieces of fat and sinew, cut into 5-cm dice then, in small batches, begin to process. If adding pork to the dish, purchase pork belly—skin off— then dice 
like the beef. The pork belly will be quite fatty, but do not attempt to separate the fat from the meat on the pork belly as the fat will add great flavour and moistness to the bolognaise.
* Bacon is optional as 
well. Sometimes it is good to keep some bacon rinds in the freezer and add 6 rinds to the recipe to impart some flavour— it’s cheaper too.
* Fresh tomatoes can easily 
replace the tinned variety—allow 1 kg fresh tomatoes which need to be peeled and sliced in half before scraping out the seeds with a teaspoon, then roughly chopped before adding. See slow-roasted tomatoes for a wicked tomato sauce.* ½ cup fresh basil leaves 
can be shredded and added at the very end of the cooking.
* Always make more 
bolognaise than you think you need. Leftovers are great over the coming days as the flavour develops and becomes richer with time.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 118Braised Beef Brisket
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2.5 kg beef brisket
salt and pepper2 tablespoons olive oil4 carrots, roughly chopped3 celery sticks, roughly chopped2 onions, roughly chopped2 bay leaves10 peppercorns375 ml red wine600 ml beef stock
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 140°c.2. cut the beef brisket in half lengthways and season 
with salt and pepper. heat a braising pot or flameproof casserole dish on high, add the oil and seal the meat until browned all over.
3. remove the meat then add the vegetables and cook 
over medium heat until lightly coloured. Place the meat on the bed of vegetables, add the spices, wine and stock.
4. Take a piece of foil and place directly on the meat 
(do not tuck over the rim of the braising pot). or if the pot has a lid, simply put the lid on.
5. Braise in the oven for 3–4 hours. The meat is 
perfectly cooked when a skewer inserted meets no resistance. When cooked, remove from the pot and set aside. reserve some of the cooking liquor for serving. The meat should be tender enough to pull strips from it instead of having to slice it.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
119* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, wooden 
spoon, tongs, liquid and spoon measures and braising pot or casserole dish or deep roasting pan.
* If during the colder 
months of the year you plan on cooking several braised dishes, then it may be worthwhile to invest in a heavy (cast iron) cooking pot with a lid.
* Importantly, the meat is 
not sealed (browned) to lock in its juices, but rather to add colour as well as flavour— through the addition 
of salt and pepper as well as the caramelising of the meat. Also the browning of the meat and vegetables adds greater depth of colour and flavour to the resulting sauce.
* Drain the liquid from the 
vegetables after the meat has been removed, reserving the liquid for further use. Place the vegetables (removing the bay leaves and peppercorns) in a food processor with a small amount of the juices and puree to produce a thick and tasty sauce to go with the meat. Remember to season with salt and pepper.
* Another sauce idea is 
to strain the liquid into a saucepan (discarding the vegetables and spices) over medium heat and reduce by one-third. Then add 2 anchovy fillets and 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard. Surprisingly, the anchovies dissolve into the sauce without leaving a distinct anchovy flavour, but rather adding a different form of saltiness to the sauce.
* This dish is ideally 
matched to a sauce called salsa verde.
* As an accompaniment for 
dinner, serve with creamy mashed potato and steamed baby vegetables.
* Alternative cuts of beef 
for this dish are skirt or blade. Lamb and veal shank, pork and lamb necks, and osso buco and beef shoulder are other cuts of meat ideally suited to braising. It then becomes a matter of taste as to what liquid, vegetables, herbs and spices match the cut of meat.
* Braising works with 
tough cuts of meat because collagen, a key connective tissue, converts to gelatine when cooked for long periods in a slow oven. Collagen is prominent in muscles the animal uses most often. For example, the shoulder in beef is used in walking and standing, and is quite tough; while the tenderloin (eye fillet) is used hardly at all and is very tender. Braising doesn’t work well with tender cuts of meat because they have little collagen, and the long cooking times contracts and tightens the muscle fibres too much— an effect exactly 
like wringing out a wet towel—leaving the meat dry 
and stringy.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 120Braised lamB shanks
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 lamb shanks, frenched
salt and pepper2 tablespoons plain flour2 tablespoons olive oil1 medium onion, finely chopped2 garlic cloves, crushed125 ml white wine400 g can diced tomatoes500 ml chicken stocksprig of rosemary
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc.2. season the shanks with salt and pepper, and lightly 
dust with flour, shaking off the excess.
3. heat the oil in a large flameproof casserole dish on 
high. cook the shanks until evenly browned all over, remove from the dish and set aside.
4. add the onion to the same dish and sauté on medium 
heat for 5 minutes or until softened. add the garlic and cook for 1 minute.
5. add the wine then return the shanks to the pan with 
the tomatoes, stock and rosemary.
6. cover with the lid or with foil and bake for  
2 hours or until the meat is very tender. season to taste.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
121* You will need— cutting 
board, knife, flameproof 
casserole dish with lid and liquid and spoon measures.
* ‘Frenched’ is a term that 
describes the way meat on the bone is trimmed. All butchers know what it means and how to do it, so simply ask for ‘frenched lamb shanks’ when ordering. The reason it is done is for presentation— the 
meat on the bone shrinks slightly, exposing more of the bone which in turn makes the meat stand out more. It is not vital that it is done and cooking lamb or veal shanks without trimming will still work with this recipe.
* Use a frying pan and 
transfer to a casserole or baking dish if you do not have a flameproof casserole dish.
* Try adding 1 carrot 
(peeled and diced) and 1 celery stick (diced) with the onion.
* Soak 300 g chickpeas 
overnight, drain and add to the shanks with the tomatoes, stock and rosemary.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 122Chilli Con Carne
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 tablespoons olive oil
2 small onions, chopped3 garlic cloves, crushed1 green capsicum, chopped1 kg beef mince300 ml red wine2 x 400 g cans diced tomatoes3 tablespoons tomato paste2 tablespoons ground chilli1 teaspoon ground cumin1 teaspoon ground coriander1 cinnamon stick1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce1 beef stock cubesalt and freshly ground black pepper2 x 400 g can red kidney beans, drained and rinsedfresh coriander leaves2 limes, quartered
Method:
1. heat the oil in a large, heavy-based saucepan and 
fry the onion and garlic until softened. increase the heat, add the capsicum and beef, and cook quickly, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the meat is well browned.
2. add the wine, tomatoes, tomato paste, chilli, 
cumin, coriander, cinnamon, Worcestershire sauce and stock cube. season well with salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer, cover with a lid and cook over gentle heat for at least 1 hour, stirring occasionally, until the mixture is rich and thickened.
3. add the kidney beans and cook for a further 10 
minutes, uncovered, before removing from the heat. Garnish with coriander leaves and lime wedges. serve with steamed rice, steamed or boiled chat potatoes or crusty bread, as well as guacamole, sour cream and a green salad.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
123* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, large saucepan, wooden spoon and spoon and liquid measures.
* Chilli con carne is also 
known simply as chilli, especially in Texas.
* Like most slow-cooked 
dishes, chilli con carne is much tastier a day or two after it’s cooked. Simply leave to cool, stick in the fridge and gently heat before serving.
* I always recommend making 
more than is needed as the leftovers can be frozen in individual portions in clip lock sandwich bags.
* Chilli con carne (chilli 
with meat) does not traditionally have beans in the recipe as beans are considered a cheap filler. However, for a perfectly acceptable vegetarian version of this dish substitute the minced beef with its weight in cooked (or canned) red kidney beans.
* Cooking the mince until 
it begins to brown— although 
not entirely necessary— does 
stop the ‘meat’ smell from developing after the dish is cooked.* Use diced stewing beef 
like chuck to give the dish a chunky texture. Cook for longer (2
½ hours), adding 
a cup of water to allow for evaporation.
* You may like to finish this 
dish with 1 tablespoon lime juice and 1 tablespoon brown sugar.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 124Corned beef
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 kg corned beef girello or silverside
2 large carrots, peeled and cut into rounds1 large onion, quartered2 bay leaves6 whole cloves6 peppercornswine vinegar (100 ml for every 1 litre of water)
Method:
1. Tie the beef neatly with string to hold it 
together and place into a deep pot with the remaining ingredients. cover with cold water and bring very slowly to the boil. simmer gently for 2 hours and  40 minutes. check if the meat is ready by inserting a skewer into the beef—the skewer should meet little resistance when inserted and removed.
2. When the meat is cooked, remove from the liquid, 
place onto a large serving platter and cover with foil to keep warm. reserve some of the cooking liquor to use as a sauce (see hints and tips).Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
125* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
pot and cooking twine.
* Cooking or kitchen twine 
or string is available from all supermarkets but I prefer to buy only what I need from the local butcher. Butchers usually carry commercial strength twine made from either cotton, polyester or rayon.
* The reason for tying the 
meat is to stop it from curling and shrinking too much. Ask your butcher to do this job for you.Once tied, the beef will retain its shape, although it will have lost moisture and be smaller in size.
* Depending on the size of 
the meat, allow a simmering time of 40 minutes for every 500 g meat.
* Leave the skin on the 
onion when cutting into quarters as the skin will add a nice amber colour to the stock.
* The wine vinegar in this 
recipe can be substituted with cider vinegar, white vinegar or malt vinegar.
* Small Dutch carrots and 
peeled pickling onions can be added to the simmering stock in the last 20 minutes of cooking. Serve with the meat.
* Reserve 250 ml of the 
cooking liquor, strain, and mix with 1 tablespoon chopped flat-leaf parsley to make a very easy sauce. Serve with mustard on the side.
* Cook 250 g Savoy cabbage 
(sliced) in 2 tablespoons butter. Add 1 tablespoon chopped flat-leaf parsley. Cook the cabbage until just wilted. Do not be tempted to cook it in the stock with the beef— this is an 
outdated method that produces overcooked, mushy cabbage with no flavour.
* Serve with white sauce, 
caramelised onions, parsley  
and crushed white vegetables  
or mashed potato.
* Girello is an Italian word 
for the ‘eye of silverside’ or ‘eye of round’, meaning a more tender cut running through the centre of a normally tougher cut of meat. The recommendation of girello is because of its cylindrical shape which, when tied, delivers perfect discs of tender corned beef.
* Leftover corned beef is 
great in sandwiches the next day. It is also great as Corned beef hash— mix 200 g corned beef (diced) with  150 g cooked potato (diced), and season with salt and pepper. Heat 100 g butter in a sauté pan, add the hash mixture and flatten to form a pancake. Cook on one side until brown and crispy, use an egg flip to turn, then brown the other side. Serve with a squeeze of lemon.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 126Cottage pie
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg potatoes, peeled and quartered
2 tablespoons butter200 ml milksalt1 tablespoon olive oil1 brown onion, diced2 garlic cloves, crushed1 carrot, grated2 celery sticks, diced1 x 400 g can diced tomatoes1 kg beef mince1 bay leaf250 ml beef stock2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley1 tablespoon tomato pastesalt and pepper
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc.2. for the mashed potato topping—cover the potatoes 
with cold water, cover the saucepan with a lid and bring to the boil. reduce heat to low and simmer until soft. Drain and mash with the butter, milk and salt to taste.
3. Place the oil in a frying pan over medium heat. 
add the onion and fry for 2 minutes before adding the garlic. cook until the onion is soft. add the carrot and celery, cook until soft.
4. add the tomatoes and cook for 10 minutes to enhance 
the tomato flavour.
5. add the beef and cook through, ensuring you break 
up the mince by pressing and stirring with a wooden spoon—the mixture should resemble large bread crumbs.Meat127 
*  You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, spoon, liquid and cup measures, bowls, saucepan with a lid, frying pan, wooden spoon, potato masher and deep baking dish.
* Sprinkle 1 cup grated 
tasty cheese or 1 teaspoon nutmeg over the potato mash before baking the pie.
* This pie made with beef 
mince is known as a ‘cottage pie’, while it is said that a true ‘shepherd’s pie’ is made with lamb mince. A mix of half beef mince and half lamb mince can be used— basically, 
it doesn’t really matter as long as it’s cheap to make and filling on a cold winter’s night.
* 1 cup of peas, corn or 
button mushrooms can be added during step 5.
* Add chilli with the 
parsley to suit individual tastes or even a large pinch of curry. You do not really taste the curry but it gives the meat a lift.
* If you do not want to use 
mince, use leftover roast meat; this will usually make a smaller dish but it eliminates any waste from the roast.
* You can substitute the cup 
of beef stock with 1 cup gravy for a thicker, richer taste.* This pie can remain in 
the fridge for up to 1 week before it is baked.
* For a ‘fancier’ pie, 
eliminate the can of tomatoes from the above recipe, make the mince mixture then, in the baking dish, layer the mince, sliced fresh tomato and a layer of corn, and repeat. Top with the mashed potato and bake.6. add the bay leaf, stock and Worcestershire sauce, 
and reduce until most of the moisture is absorbed.
7. add the parsley and tomato paste to thicken and add 
colour to the mixture, cook for a further 3 minutes. add salt and pepper to taste.
8. Pour into a deep baking dish and top with the 
mashed potato, using a fork to fluff and spread evenly.
9. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, allowing the 
potato mash to crisp and brown slightly.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 1281 tablespoon butter
1 litre bolognaise sauce500 g fresh lasagne sheets1.2 litres béchamel sauce1 cup grated parmesan cheese
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.2. Grease a large rectangular baking dish and spoon 
some bolognaise sauce into the base of the dish. cover with a layer of lasagne sheets. Top the pasta with a layer of meat sauce (making sure that the pasta is completely covered), then drizzle some béchamel sauce over the meat sauce and sprinkle over a light dusting of cheese.
3. repeat layering the pasta sheets, sauces and cheese 
in this manner until all have been used, ending with a topping of béchamel sauce and cheese.
4. Bake the lasagne covered with foil for 30 minutes, 
unwrap and return to the oven for 15 minutes or until golden brown. remove from the oven and rest for 10 minutes to firm before serving.Lasagne
Serves 6xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxMeat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
129* You will need— large 
baking dish (approximately  
20 cm x 30 cm) as well as the equipment mentioned in the recipes for bolognaise and béchamel sauce.
* Instant or dried lasagne 
sheets work just as well with the cooking times staying the same.
* Drizzle the béchamel sauce 
on each layer— don’t try to 
‘spread’ the béchamel as this will only mix it into the meat sauce, creating a mess.
* The bolognaise sauce 
needs to be made first as it takes a while to cook. The béchamel (white) sauce is made last and kept warm to make drizzling easier. If the béchamel sauce goes cold, it will also go firm and lumpy, making it much harder to use.
* A mixture of cheese can 
be used, try mozzarella and cheddar with the parmesan.
* Bocconcini— a type of 
fresh mozzarella cheese available at supermarkets and delicatessens— can be 
broken into small pieces and sprinkled between the layers. You will need 250 g for this recipe.* Using a mornay sauce 
instead of a béchamel sauce is fine.
* Instead of beef mince in 
the bolognaise sauce, try using 500 g pork mince and 500 g veal mince; although only slightly more expensive, the meat in the sauce will be moister and more tender.
* Making 2 trays of lasagne 
is a good idea, which at the time appears like a lot of work. Bake one for your dinner, wrap the other one in plastic wrap and freeze for dinner another day; this way only one set of dishes is created to produce 2 meals.
* For a vegetarian 
alternative, see vegetable lasagne.
* For people with 
coeliac disease or gluten intolerance, use gluten-free lasagne or rice sheets available in health food shops and supermarkets. The flavour and texture will differ slightly and yet will be suitable because of the flavour of the sauces.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 130Meat loaf
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g beef mince
250 g pork mince250 g veal mince1 medium carrot, peeled and grated8 button mushrooms, sliced4 rindless bacon rashers, diced1 medium brown onion, peeled and grated2 tablespoons Worcestershire sauce
½ cup tomato puree (passata)
1 egg2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleysalt and pepper
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a deep loaf tin 
with baking paper.
2. Mix all the ingredients in a large mixing bowl.3. Tightly pack the mixture into the loaf tin. This 
will make slicing easier.
4. Place in the oven for 1 hour or until browned  
on top.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
131* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, vegetable grater, spoon, weight and cup measures, large bowl, deep loaf tin and baking paper.
* This recipe can be created 
with almost anything you happen to have on hand in the fridge and the minces can be increased or varied depending on taste. You could even use chicken or sausage mince.
* Mixing with your hands 
helps you gauge the consistency of the mixture. If it is too wet, add 1 cup dried bread crumbs.
* If the loaf becomes too 
dry while baking, pour  1–2 tablespoons boiling water 
or stock over the top.
* Chilled meat loaf can 
be served as part of an antipasto platter.
* Instead of using bacon in 
the mixture, place slices of streaky bacon over the baking paper and allow it to overhang the edge of the tin. Fill with the mixture and fold the overhanging bacon over the top of the meat loaf. This will help keep the meat loaf moist.* To add depth of flavour, 
cook the carrot, mushrooms, bacon and onion in  1 tablespoon butter then  add to the mixture.
* Leftover meat loaf can be 
used in sandwiches.
* Any leftover mixture can 
be made into burger patties and frozen, or freeze and make sausage rolls at a later date.
* Pack into muffin trays for 
individual serves and bake for 20 minutes.
* 1 cup grated tasty cheese 
can be sprinkled on top about 10 minutes before removing from the oven. Do not do this if you have layered bacon on top.
* Boil 4 eggs, peel and 
place into the meat loaf. Do this by filling the loaf tin one-third full with mince, lay the eggs lengthways in the centre of the loaf tin then top with the remaining mince before baking.
* This recipe can be made in 
advance and frozen unbaked.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 132Moussaka
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 medium eggplants
2 tablespoons cooking salt5 tablespoons cooking oil1 medium onion, peeled and finely diced2 garlic cloves, minced500 g lamb mince3 tablespoons tomato paste1 teaspoon dried oregano1 cinnamon stick250 ml beef stocksalt and pepper300 g potatoes, peeled and cooked50 g grated kefalograviera cheese
Sauce
30 g butter30 g plain flour375 ml milk50 g grated tasty cheese
Method:
1. slice the eggplant, spread on a plate and sprinkle 
with the cooking salt. leave for 30 minutes. rinse and pat dry with paper towel.
2. fry the eggplant in a little oil until brown on 
both sides. set aside.
3. heat the remaining oil and cook the onion and 
garlic until softened. add the mince and cook until browned.
4. stir in the tomato paste, oregano, cinnamon, stock 
and seasonings. Bring to the boil, cover and simmer for 30 minutes.
5. slice the cooked potatoes. When the meat has 
cooked, remove the cinnamon stick.Meat133 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
2 saucepans, sauté or frying pan, wooden spoon, whisk, grater, spoon, liquid and weight measures, large baking or lasagne dish.
* Like many traditional 
dishes steeped in history, there will always be debate over which is the true recipe. Well, there are many true recipes of traditional dishes as every region of every country has its own interpretation of a national dish—and moussaka is no 
different.* This recipe includes 
cinnamon, which some regional cooks of Greece would disagree with, while others swear by it. I add it because I love the subtle aroma it gives the meat sauce, and it also masks the meaty smell perfectly.
* Kefalograviera is a style 
of hard cheese used for saganaki (fried cheese). It is ideal to use in this dish. Available from all good delicatessens, it can be substituted for regular tasty cheese or parmesan.Method cont.
6. Line the base of a large baking dish with half the 
eggplant and pour over half the meat mixture. top with the rest of the eggplant, then add the remaining meat and finally add a layer of sliced potatoes.
7. For the sauce—melt the butter, stir in the flour 
and cook over medium heat until the mix turns a sandy colour. Remove from the heat and add all the milk at once. Return to the heat and, using a whisk, stir the sauce until it comes back to the boil then continue to boil for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the tasty cheese.
8. Pour the sauce over the moussaka, sprinkle with the 
kefalograviera cheese and bake in a preheated 180ºC oven for 30 minutes or until golden brown.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 134OssO bucO
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6 pieces osso buco (veal shank cut into slices  
3–4 cm thick)
salt and pepper
4 tablespoons butter2 tablespoons olive oil2 medium carrots, finely diced1 medium onion, finely diced1 celery stick, finely diced2 garlic cloves, crushed1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves250 ml white wine2 tablespoons tomato paste400 g can diced tomatoes500 ml chicken stock or beef stockzest of 1 orange
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160°c.2. season the osso buco pieces with salt and pepper.3. heat 2 tablespoons butter and the olive oil in a 
heavy-based flameproof casserole dish and sauté the veal on both sides until golden brown. remove the veal from the dish and place on a tray.
4. add 2 tablespoons butter to the casserole dish, 
then add the onion, carrot, celery, garlic, and thyme, and cook for 10 minutes. if necessary, add a little more butter.
5. Pour the wine into the dish, bring to the boil 
and simmer for a few minutes. add the tomato paste, tomatoes and stock, bring to the boil, then add the osso buco.
6. Top with the orange zest, cover tightly with a lid 
and cook for 2 hours.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
135* You will need— heavy-based 
flameproof casserole dish or 
roasting pan, wooden spoon, tongs and liquid and spoon measures.
* Osso buco literally means 
‘bone with a hole’.
* If the osso buco is 
already cut, then try and find 6 large pieces; alternatively, look for 12 smaller, thinner cuts of osso buco. As the hind legs are bigger than the front legs, the size of the shins and consequently the size of the slices cut from the hind legs will yield greater amounts of meat and tend to be more tender.
* When cooked properly, osso 
buco will not need a knife as the meat falls off the bone and can be broken into pieces with a fork.
* Traditionally osso buco 
is served with teaspoons to scoop out the marrow.
* This very same recipe 
lends itself well to whole veal shanks or lamb shanks, or even other tougher cuts of meat from brisket and blade to forequarter chops. The smaller the piece of meat, the less time it may take in the oven; therefore check for doneness after 1
½ hours.* With 15 minutes of cooking 
time left, remove the dish from the oven and add  1 cup of your favourite olives, then place back in the oven, uncovered. When about to serve, instead of the gremolata, sprinkle some baby capers over the dish for added zing.
* Saving bacon rinds in the 
freezer is handy— add  
6 rinds to the osso buco in the beginning. Also add  300 g pickling onions (peeled and kept whole) to the dish with 45 minutes to go.
* Serve with simple risotto 
Milanese or mashed potatoes. If avoiding starches, serve with grilled field mushrooms and wilted baby spinach with lemon wedges on the side, or simply serve with some good crusty bread and a leafy green salad.
* Gremolata (gremolada) is 
a traditional accompaniment to osso buco but some may find the flavour too sharp for the rich flavour of the dish. It is sprinkled on top of the osso buco before serving. Mix thoroughly—
½ cup curly 
parsley (finely chopped), zest of 1 lemon (chopped), and 1 garlic clove (finely chopped).
* The orange zest can be 
substituted with lemon zest.* Osso buco can also be 
cooked on the stovetop in a saucepan. Follow steps 1 to 5 of the recipe then cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 2 hours or until the meat falls off the bone. Check occasionally to see if more stock is required.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 136Rissoles
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 small brown onion, finely diced2 garlic cloves, crushed750 g lamb mince
½ cup bread crumbs
1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley1 eggsalt and pepper
½ cup plain flour
½ cup vegetable oil, for frying
Method:
1. Place the olive oil, onion, garlic, mince, bread 
crumbs, parsley, egg and salt and pepper in a large mixing bowl and mix thoroughly.
2. With wet hands—this prevents the mince from 
sticking to your hands—grab a handful of mince and shape into a large patty.
3. coat with the flour and repeat with the remaining 
mince.
4. shallow-fry on low–medium heat until golden brown, 
about 3–4 minutes, depending on thickness.
5. Turn and cook for 2–3 minutes on other side.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
137* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup and 
spoon measures, bowl, frying pan and tongs.
* Using a nonstick frying 
pan means less oil is needed for frying the rissoles.
* Onion is often better 
grated for burgers, rissoles and meatballs, as it ‘melts’ into the meat and eliminates an overpowering onion taste.
* Add the finely grated zest 
of 1 lemon to the mince.
* For best results, it is 
highly recommended that the rissoles be placed in the refrigerator for 1 hour before cooking to allow the proteins to set firm and hold once cooked.
* The rissoles can be cooked 
on the barbecue, or in the oven, or grilled until golden brown.
* Rissoles can be made in 
advance and frozen. It is best to lay them flat on plastic wrap, then freeze solid before placing in an airtight container with sheets of baking paper between each one. This makes it easy to separate if only needing to defrost a couple at a time.* Make smaller rissoles for 
an antipasto platter and serve with tomato relish or sweet chilli sauce.
* Any mince can be used—
beef, pork, chicken, or a mixture of beef and lamb or chicken and pork. You could also use sausage mince mixed in equal quantities with any of the other minces.
* To keep the rissoles 
moist, add ½ cup ricotta 
cheese or 1 grated Granny Smith apple or 1 cup grated zucchini. It is best to use regular rather than lean mince because that will also help to keep the rissoles moist.
* Crush 1 cup pine nuts and 
add to the mixture.
* Add ¼ cup parmesan cheese 
to the plain flour.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 138Roast beef
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 x 2.5 kg beef roast (sirloin, wing-rib, blade,  
rump, scotch or eye fillet)
½ cup olive oil
sea salt
freshly ground black pepper1 cup water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.2. heat a heavy-based roasting pan or a large 
ovenproof frying pan. rub the beef with the oil and salt. Place the beef in the pan and brown on all sides, then sprinkle with the pepper. remove the pan from the heat. Place the roast on a trivet or rack that fits in or over the roasting pan, add the water to the pan and place in the oven.
3. Bake for 2
½ hours. Depending on how well you want 
the roast cooked, use a meat thermometer—45ºc for 
rare, 55ºc for medium and 65ºc for well done—or use the old ‘time by weight’ method of 30 minutes for every 500 g.
4. once cooked, remove from the oven, move the roast 
to a warm area and rest for 20 minutes.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
139* You will need— roasting 
pan or large ovenproof frying 
pan, metal trivet or small wire rack and cup measure.
* There are several methods 
for roasting beef. Roasting it on a trivet so it is elevated from the base of the pan is one way— the water 
in the base produces a bit of steam in the oven to help keep the meat moist as well as being the beginning of a gravy. Raising the meat from the base of the pan ensures it won’t burn underneath.
* Cooking the roast on a bed 
of vegetables also prevents its base from burning, and adds minimal flavour to the roast as well as the gravy. Roughly chop 1 carrot, 1 large brown onion and 2 celery sticks, place in the roasting pan and place the beef on top.
* I recommend leaving the 
roast at room temperature, covered, for about 2– 3 hours 
(depending on size) prior to cooking. This ensures that the meat is more evenly cooked instead of too well done on the outside and too rare in the centre.
* Slow-roasting the beef can 
be done to minimise moisture loss, at a temperature of 120ºC or less, for 6– 8 hours—the beef will not 
shrink as much and will stay juicy throughout. The joint of meat needs to be seared on the outside as the lack of heat in the oven will fail to brown it.
* Roasting on a high heat 
can also be done but is not recommended by professional cooks and food scientists as they know all too well what happens to the delicate proteins in meat when exposed to the vicious dry heat of an oven. Roasting meat at 200ºC or above forces the meat to contract, squeezing out valuable juices and ultimately leaving the meat with a small, juicy centre and a much larger, dry outer area.
* Searing the beef before 
it is roasted is more for flavour than for keeping in the juices. Oil and salt rubbed into the meat also add flavour. The pepper is only added after it is seared as pepper tends to burn easily.
* Resting the beef after 
roasting is important to allow the meat fibres to relax and for the blood (juices) to distribute evenly throughout the whole joint. Which explains why if ever you’ve cut into a roast (or even a steak) immediately after it comes from the oven, it almost gushes blood and juice all over the cutting board. This will not happen if the meat is well rested.
* For a simple gravy— keep 
adding water to the pan as it evaporates in the oven, this will be a good start. Once cooked, place the pan back on the heat and add 2 cups beef or chicken stock, and reduce slightly. Season with salt and pepper, and thicken with 1 tablespoon cornflour mixed with 2 teaspoons cold water whisked into the gravy. Bring to the boil and pour into a jug.
* For Yorkshire pudding— add 
1–2 tablespoons olive oil or 
beef dripping to each cup of a muffin tray and place in a preheated 220ºC oven. Make a batter by mixing 150 g plain flour with 240 ml milk and 3 eggs. Place 2 tablespoons of batter into each hot oiled cup and bake for 10– 15 
minutes or until puffed and golden. Do not open the oven door until ready as the puddings may not rise. Leftover puddings freeze well and can be reheated for another day.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 140Roast lamb
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 lemons
1 garlic bulb
½ bunch fresh rosemary
1 leg of lamb (about 2.5 kg), boned and rolled2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oilsalt1 cup water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Place a roasting rack in 
a roasting pan.
2. slice the lemons into thick rounds and place on the 
roasting rack in a single layer. roughly slice the garlic with the skin on and place on the lemon. Then lay the rosemary over the top of the lemon and garlic. This forms the bed upon which the lamb will roast—the juices from these aromatics and the lamb makes a delicious sauce (see hints and tips).
3. rub the lamb with the oil and salt, and place on 
the roasting rack. add the water to the roasting pan and cover with foil. Put the roast in the oven for about 1 hour. after 1 hour, remove the foil (keep the foil to one side and use to cover the lamb when resting), turn the oven up to 220ºc and return the lamb to the oven for 30–40 minutes depending on the size. use a meat thermometer—45ºc for rare, 55ºc for medium-rare, 65ºc for medium and 75–80°c for well done—or use the old ‘time by weight’ method of  30 minutes for every 500 g.
4. once cooked, remove from the oven, cover the roast 
in foil and let it rest for 20 minutes. While the roast is resting, make the sauce (see hints and tips) if desired.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
141* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, roasting 
pan, roasting rack (wire cake rack or trivet), spoon and cup measures.
* For a sauce— pour the 
juices from the roasting pan into a saucepan. Add the aromatics under the roast, 200 ml white wine and 500 ml veal or beef stock and over medium–high heat, reduce 
the sauce by half. Check the seasoning and if need be, thicken with 1 tablespoon cornflour mixed with  1 teaspoon cold water. Strain the sauce before serving with the lamb.
* Even without the bed of 
aromatics, it’s important to place the meat onto a rack so that it doesn’t stew in its own juices. If you do not have a rack to place the roast on, then put it directly on the wire rungs of the oven shelf with your roasting pan underneath to catch all the juices.
* If possible, take the 
meat from the refrigerator about 1 hour before cooking, this allows the meat to come closer to room temperature, which in turn allows the cooking times in the recipe to be true.* Trim excess fat and any 
silver sinew if necessary or have your butcher do that for you. Do remember that fat is flavour and it may be better to roast with the fat on and trim after it is roasted to allow the meat to self-baste.
* Resting roasted meat 
before carving and serving is vital— it enables 
temperatures to even out and the meat fibres to relax, and evenly redistributes the juices. The relaxed meat becomes more tender and easier to carve with less loss of juices. Any juices collected on the plate the roast was resting on can be used in a sauce. Allow the meat to rest for approximately 5 minutes for every 500 g meat. For example, 15 minutes for a  1.5 kg lamb roast.
* Lamb will shrink during 
the cooking process so allow for this when purchasing and always allow an extra portion.
* Carve meat across the 
grain; this enhances tenderness.
* Create insertions, no more 
than 6, with a sharp knife on all sides of the roast. Make a paste by mixing 3 crushed garlic cloves, 
½ tablespoon 
olive oil, 1 teaspoon dried oregano and 
¼ teaspoon salt, 
divide evenly and place the paste into each cavity to infuse the meat with aroma and flavour while cooking.
* The roast can be basted 
with the pan juices during cooking.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 142Roast poRk and cRackling
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 kg joint of pork with skin on (leg, shoulder,  
belly or loin)
salt flakes
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 220ºc.2. follow the instructions in Hints and tips for 
preparing the skin for crackling.
3. Place the pork on a trivet or small cake rack and 
place in a roasting pan. Place the pan on a middle shelf in the oven. roast for 30 minutes, then reduce the heat to 170ºc for 1
¼ hours.
4. remove from the oven and set aside to rest for 15–20 minutes before carving.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
143* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paper 
towel, roasting pan and trivet or small wire rack.
* For the crackling— there 
are several theories for perfect crackling and for many cooks their method seems to work and they will stick to it—which is fine. Keep in 
mind some basic ideas. First, rinse the skin under cold water and thoroughly pat dry with paper towel— moisture is 
crackling’s worst enemy. Make sure the skin is scored in 
½–1-cm intervals and through 
the fat, even if it means re-scoring what the butcher has already done. Rub with salt, cover in plastic wrap and leave on the bench for 30 minutes— the salt will 
extract excess moisture from the skin. Use paper towel again to remove the excess moisture. DO NOT rub with oil as the pork fat is enough to self-baste the skin. Sprinkle again with salt, this time lightly, and bake as per the instructions given. Some cooks rub the skin with lemon juice and salt, I’ve tried this method as well, but I also let it stand to extract moisture before baking.
* If, for whatever reason, 
the pork crackling doesn’t work, remove the skin, cover the roast with foil to keep it warm and place the crackling between two pieces of paper towel and microwave on high for 2 minutes. Allow to cool for a couple more minutes before breaking into pieces.
* The salt— it is important 
to use a good salt for this dish. Table salt or cooking salt are too harsh and bitter in flavour and it is therefore recommended to use a quality flake or sea salt whenever possible. If using a flake salt, it is a good idea to crush the salt in a mortar and pestle to make it fine grained so it really gets into the skin.
* When roasting meats, pork 
included, bring the meat to room temperature for a more even cooking of the meat. A piece of meat straight from the fridge placed into the oven needs to heat up before it starts to cook—which means the outside is cooking while the inside is still cold, and by the time the inside is cooked, the outer part is dried out and overcooked.
* If you plan on cooking 
roasts often, then invest in a meat thermometer.
* The quality of the pig is 
the real test of successful crackling. The water content in the skin ultimately determines the outcome. Excellent pigs raised in a free range or organic lifestyle will always produce perfect crackling. Pork from the supermarket will always frustrate the cook as it  will work one week, yet  2 weeks later produce a rubbery result.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 144San choy bao
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 ml peanut or other vegetable oil
1 tablespoon sesame oil8 garlic cloves, crushed100 g ginger, grated6 shallots (eschalots), finely chopped1 bunch spring onions, white part thinly sliced1 kg pork mince150 ml c hinese cooking wine
200 ml hoisin sauce200 ml oyster sauce2 iceberg lettuces, leaves washed and dried2 tablespoons sesame seeds, to garnishgreen part of spring onions, sliced on an angle,  
to garnish
Method:
1. heat the oil in a wok until smoking. add the 
garlic, ginger, shallots and thinly sliced spring onion and fry for 1 minute.
2. stir in the mince and cook until brown. add the 
wine and sauces, work into the mince and stir-fry until the mince is cooked through.
3. Turn off the heat and set aside.4. Place the lettuce leaf cups on serving plates, fill 
with the cooked mince and sprinkle over the garnishes.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
145* You will need— wok or 
large frying pan, wooden 
spoon or metal spatula, cutting board, cook’s knife and liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* It can be a good idea to 
buy an extra lettuce or two as the leaves can sometimes be awkward to separate; leftover lettuce can always be used in salads or sandwiches.
* To separate the lettuce 
leaves, cut out the core and run the lettuce under cold water (core side facing the flowing water). The leaves get the water between them and this helps to minimise the risk of tearing, especially in tight lettuce heads.
* A 225 g can chopped water 
chestnuts can be added for crunch and texture.
* A mixture of 500 g chicken 
mince and 500 g pork mince can be used.
* A pre-cooked Chinese duck, 
which can be purchased from Chinese barbecue stores, may also be used instead of the mince for a fancier dish.
* Dry sherry can be 
substituted for Chinese cooking wine.* It is a good idea to 
provide a finger bowl of warm water and lemon slices because eating san choy bao can get quite messy. At the very least, provide napkins or paper towels.
* San choy bao mince can 
also be made in a saucepan; it will require a longer cooking time because it won’t get as hot as a wok. Allow time for the mixture to become relatively dry and manageable, rather than sloppy, bearing in mind that it is essentially eaten with fingers.
* A mix of light soy sauce 
and teriyaki can be used in the same quantities as the hoisin and oyster sauces and works just as well, but some of the authenticity of the dish will be lost.
* Hot or sweet chilli sauce 
can be added for extra kick.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 146SauSageS and maSh with pepper Sauce
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 recipe quantity potato mash
1 recipe quantity caramelised onions8 sausages of your choice1 tablespoon olive oil1 small brown onion, finely diced250 ml red wine6 sprigs thyme250 ml beef stock1 tablespoon freshly cracked black pepper2 tablespoons cornflour mixed with 1 tablespoon  
cold water
60 g butter, diced coldsalt
Method:
1. once the mash and caramelised onions are cooking, 
cook the sausages in a frying pan or on the barbecue.
2. While the sausages are cooking, make the sauce. 
heat the oil in a saucepan and fry the onion over medium heat, stirring, for about 5 minutes or until the onion is softened.
3. add the wine and thyme and simmer for 10–15 minutes 
or until the wine is reduced by half.
4. add the stock and pepper and simmer for 5 minutes.5. add the cornflour and cold water paste and whisk as 
the sauce comes to the boil and thickens—the cornflour will thicken as the sauce begins to boil. stir in the diced butter and check the seasoning.
6. remove from the heat and cover with plastic wrap 
until ready to use.
7. To serve—place a dollop of creamy mash in the 
centre of 4 plates. Place 2 sausages on each dollop of mash and pour some sauce over the lot. Top with a spoonful of caramelised onion.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
147* You will need— equipment 
required to make mash and 
caramelised onions, frying pan or barbecue, saucepan, spoon, weight and liquid measures, whisk, tongs, cutting board and cook’s knife.
* This simple combination 
of ingredients works equally as well with a good steak or grilled chicken breast.
* The sauce can be made in 
advance and heated before serving.
* If the red wine component 
appears too much, simply omit the wine and replace with stock or water.
* It is important to mix 
the cornflour with cold water before stirring into the sauce. This cold ‘slurry’ is then whisked into the sauce as it boils. Starches like cornflour, arrowroot, rice flour and potato starch reach maximum thickening ability once the liquid has come to the boil, so it is worth noting that only small amounts at a time are added and brought to the boil between each addition.* A simple onion gravy can 
be made by preparing the caramelised onions following the instructions. Add 250 ml beef stock to the onions, bring to the boil and thicken with cornflour and water. Check the seasoning.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 148Steak and kidney pie
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
800 g chuck steak, cut into 3-cm dice
300 ml Guinness8 lambs’ kidneys
½ cup cornflour
1 tablespoon salt1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper3 tablespoons olive oil2 medium onions, cut into 1-cm dice100 g button mushrooms, halved2 carrots, peeled and cut into 1-cm dice2 celery sticks, chopped2 garlic cloves, crushed1 teaspoon fresh thyme leaves1 litre beef stock or water1 sheet puff pastry, defrosted1 egg yolk, for glazing
Method:
1. Place the meat in a glass or plastic bowl and mix 
with the Guinness, then set aside to marinate for several hours or overnight. Drain and discard the Guinness or keep half the Guinness for the sauce.
2. Trim the lamb kidneys by slicing through the middle 
and removing the white fat. once cleaned, cut each half into thirds.
3. Mix the cornflour, salt and pepper together, then 
toss the beef and kidneys in the mixture.
4. in a heavy-based pot or casserole dish, heat some 
of the oil and add a small handful of meat at a time, browning then transferring to a dish. repeat until all the meat is browned. adding all the meat in one batch will not work as there is not enough hot surface area to brown such a large amount.Meat149 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, weight, liquid, cup and spoon measures, heavy-based pot or casserole dish, 1-litre pie dish and pastry brush.
* The Guinness is used as 
a marinade in this recipe, although the flavour may be too strong for some. However, if that rich, hoppy flavour is desired, then add the Guinness to the sauce when adding the beef stock and cook as per the instructions.
* Kidneys have a strong 
flavour and are not to everyone’s liking. For a child-friendly pie, simply substitute the kidneys for an extra 200 g beef so the beef totals 1 kg. Substitute the Guinness for water or beef stock and continue as per the instructions to give you a simple yet tasty beef pie.
* The pie filling can easily 
be made well in advance and refrigerated for 5– 7 days or 
frozen until needed. A cold pie filling is easier to work with when topping with the puff pastry.Method cont.
5. add another tablespoon of oil to the pot, add the 
onion, mushrooms, carrot and celery, and cook for  5 minutes or until softened. add the garlic and thyme, and sauté for 1 minute.
6. Return the meat to the pot with the stock or water 
and any Guinness (optional). Bring to the boil then reduce the heat and simmer for 2 hours or until the meat is tender.
7. transfer to a pie dish, adding just enough liquid, 
if necessary, to cover the meat. extra liquid can be kept for serving separately with the pie at the table.
8. Cool completely and cover with the puff pastry (the 
pastry will not rise and crisp as well if the filling is still hot). Make a slit in the top to allow steam to escape. Brush with the egg yolk, refrigerate for  1 minute and brush again with egg yolk.
9. Bake in a preheated 200ºC oven for 15 minutes, then 
reduce the heat to 180ºC and bake for another 20– 30 
minutes to ensure the filling is hot. If the pastry is getting too dark, cover with foil and continue to cook.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 150Thai beef salad
Serves 4–6 as an entrée, or 2 as a main
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g beef rump or sirloin
8 cherry tomatoes
¼ continental cucumber, thinly sliced on an angle
2 red shallots, peeled and thinly sliced
½ cup fresh coriander leaves, washed and picked
½ cup fresh mint leaves, washed and picked
½ cup Thai basil leaves, washed and picked
2 cups tatsoi leaves, washed and dried well
Dressing
2 garlic cloves2 tablespoons grated palm sugar1 bird’s eye chilli, cut in half and seeds removed2 tablespoons lime juice2 tablespoons fish sauce
Method:
1. cook the beef in a very hot frying pan, on the 
barbecue or even in a wok (as the Thai cooks do). cook to your liking (rare to well done), then leave to one side covered with foil—adding the beef to the salad still warm is as good as adding it cold.
2. in a large bowl, squash the tomatoes to release 
their juice. add remaining salad ingredients.
3. for the dressing, a mortar and pestle is 
recommended to smash the garlic and sugar together, then pound in the chilli before adding the liquid. however, chopping and smashing with a knife will yield a similar result.
4. slice the beef. Mix the beef into the salad with 
the dressing. serve and eat as soon as the dressing is added. Dress the salad too soon and all the crisp greens will wilt, and quickly.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
151* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, frying 
pan or wok or barbecue, large bowl and mortar and pestle, spoon and cup measures.
* Why use rump or sirloin 
steak in this dish? Flavour. Certainly feel free to use fillet steak to guarantee tenderness, but you will be sacrificing flavour.
* Tatsoi leaf is a small, 
dark, round, juicy, non-bitter leaf used in Asian salads, stir-fries and soup. It is sold loose or as a head, like a lettuce. Substitute with mizuna leaf or mixed lettuce leaf, or be bold and omit tatsoi or lettuce, adding extra herbs including Vietnamese mint.
* It is important when 
washing the herbs and lettuce that they are drained thoroughly as residual water will dilute the all-important dressing. I suggest a salad spinner, available in all kitchenware shops.
* Flavour and texture can be 
enhanced by the addition of 1 teaspoon roughly chopped galangal (do not substitute with ginger).
* Adding 2 very finely 
shredded kaffir lime leaves to the salad will also create a new dimension. Kaffir lime leaves grow as two leaves joined end to end to make one. Therefore, when asked for 2 leaves, you are really adding 4.
* Toasting 1 tablespoon 
raw, unsalted peanuts until lightly golden, cooling, then roughly crushing and adding to the salad just before serving will add new crunch to this amazing salad. Blanch the peanuts and cool before toasting to remove some bitterness and give a much cleaner peanut flavour and crunch. It is recommended to toast the nuts in peanut oil to give an even-coloured result.
* Substitute the red 
shallots for half a small red onion.
* An excellent addition to 
this salad is 1 tablespoon raw jasmine rice, toasted in a pan until evenly browned, then crushed in a mortar and pestle or in a spice grinder. Do not grind too fine, instead grind to the consistency of very coarse sand. Sprinkle over the salad just before serving.
* Handling hot chilli 
should be done with great care, the seeds and the white ribs the seeds are attached to is where the heat is concentrated. Caution must therefore be taken not to touch soft areas of skin on your body as the burning effect will last for 30 minutes to 1 hour, no matter how long you wash the burning area in cold water. Food handling gloves are recommended. Try rubbing your hands with the inner part of the discarded lime shell (after squeezing juice from the limes) once the chilli is dealt with.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 152Veal schnitzel
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 veal scaloppine (escalopes), about 150 g each
1 cup plain flour1 teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon pepper
2 eggs, lightly beaten2 tablespoons milk2 cups dried bread crumbs200 ml olive oil1 lemon, cut into wedges
Method:
1. Place a double thickness of plastic wrap on a 
cutting board, place a piece of veal on the plastic then place another double thickness of plastic wrap over the veal and lightly flatten with a meat mallet. The plastic wrap helps to prevent the meat from tearing and also saves on cleaning the mallet and meat from the board. repeat the process until all the meat is done.
2. line up 3 bowls on the bench. in the first bowl, 
combine the flour, salt and pepper. in the second bowl, mix the eggs and milk. The last bowl is for the bread crumbs.
3. Dip each piece of veal first in the flour, then 
in the egg mixture and finally in the bread crumbs, pressing the bread crumbs on to cover and stick properly. set on a tray in the refrigerator for  10 minutes.
4. heat 100 ml of the oil in a nonstick frying pan 
over medium heat and cook half the veal for 2 minutes on one side, turn and cook for another minute. Drain on paper towels. heat the remaining olive oil and cook the remaining veal. if the pan is large enough, all the veal may be cooked in one batch using less oil. serve with lemon wedges.Meat-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
153* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, plastic 
wrap, meat mallet, 3 bowls, nonstick frying pan, paper towel, cup, liquid and spoon measures.
* The veal in this recipe 
can be substituted for chicken breast, sliced in half and gently flattened. Pork loin or fillet can also be used, again, flatten to the same thickness as the veal before crumbing.
* Veal Schnitzel is also 
known as Wiener schnitzel.
* Veal schnitzel topped  
with Napoli (tomato) sauce  
and cheese is a pub staple known as veal parmigiana. 
After cooking both sides of the schnitzel, top one side with 2 tablespoons Napoli sauce then sprinkle with  1 tablespoon of your favourite grated cheese—tasty, mozzarella, parmesan or pecorino to name a few. Place on a baking tray and heat under a grill until  the cheese melts or place in a hot oven (220ºC) for  5 minutes or until the cheese melts. In the UK, it will be topped with a white sauce and cheese and then melted under the grill.* For veal Holstein— top 
each veal schnitzel with a fried egg and 2 anchovy fillets over the egg.
* Veal schnitzel served with 
a mushroom sauce becomes Veal  
Jäger.
* For Veal Cordon Bleu (Blue 
Ribbon)— you will require 
4 slices of good melting cheese like gruyère, Swiss or even tasty cheese, as well as 4 slices of ham. Use a meat mallet to pound the veal until 2 mm thin. Place a piece of cheese and ham at one end, fold the veal over to cover the ham and cheese. Dip in plain flour, then into beaten eggs (2) and finally  1 cup of bread crumbs. Rest in the fridge for 1 hour before pan frying in some butter and oil.
* For great flavour, rub 1 
tablespoon crushed garlic into the bread crumbs, then add 
½ cup grated parmesan 
cheese and 2 tablespoons chopped flat-leaf parsley— the 
results are amazing.
* Try making your own bread 
crumbs. Heat the oven to 110ºC, place 12 slices of bread, crust on (white, wholegrain or wholemeal) directly onto the oven racks and leave until completely dry. Roughly break the dry bread into a food processor and blitz until it resembles bread crumbs. Use only what is needed and store the remainder in a freezer bag or plastic container in the freezer until needed. Storing the bread crumbs in the freezer will ensure they do not turn stale and will therefore last at least  6 months in great condition.------------------------------------
7.  Vegetables xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 156Baked potato in cream
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g potato, peeled and very thinly sliced
150 ml thickened cream60 g parmesan cheese, gratedpinch of freshly grated nutmegsalt and cayenne pepper60 g parmesan or gruyère cheese, grated
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160°c.2. To get the potatoes thin enough for this dish, it 
is best to cut them with a V-slicer or a mandoline. it is important to cut the potatoes as thinly as possible.
3. Mix together the cream, parmesan, nutmeg, salt and 
cayenne pepper to taste. add the very finely sliced potato, making sure cream is smothered over all pieces to ensure that the cream to potato ratio is right.
4. Pour into a baking dish that will allow the potato 
to sit a least 2.5 cm thick. Top with more parmesan or gruyère cheese. Bake in the oven for 40–45 minutes.
5. although fine to serve immediately from the oven, 
this dish is especially good made the day before, cut into shapes and reheated in the microwave.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
157* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, ‘V’ slicer or mandoline, weight and liquid measures and baking dish.
* The use of a ‘V’ slicer 
or a mandoline is paramount to the success of this dish. To cut by hand is something even professionals would not attempt. This is due to the thickness of the potatoes when sliced. If too thick, the potatoes cook unevenly and, even if cooked through, tend to impart a raw potato flavour to the finished dish. The potatoes need to be almost see-through thin.
* This is a rich 
accompaniment to any special dinner party and is not something that is made on a regular basis.
* If making for the next 
day, line the base of the dish with baking paper. This will allow you to tip the baked potato out and cut into squares, triangles or circles which can be heated separately if not wanting to reheat the whole dish.
* The cream can be 
substituted with sour cream.* Pontiac potatoes are a 
good varietal to use in this dish.
* Once baked, if the top 
hasn’t browned and formed a crust, then place it under the grill for a few minutes or until crispy brown.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 158BuBBle-and-squeak
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g leftover roasted vegetables (potato, pumpkin, 
carrot and parsnip)
250 g cabbage or brussel sprouts
150 g buttersalt and pepper
Method:
1. chop or crush the cold, leftover vegetables and set 
aside.
2. shred the cabbage or slice the brussel sprouts and 
add to the vegetables.
3. heat a frying pan over medium heat then add the 
butter. as the butter melts and begins to foam, add all the vegetables. With a wooden spoon, mix together.
4. season with salt and pepper. after about 8 minutes, 
the bubble-and-squeak will be hot and the base will have cooked to form one large patty. continue to cook, without stirring, for a couple of minutes so the base gets brown and crispy. serve immediately.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
159* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
measure, bowls, frying pan or sauté pan and wooden spoon.
* This is a classic British 
leftovers dish. Traditionally served hot with cold meat and pickles, it has become trendy in some restaurants whose chefs roast their favourite vegetables specifically to make a version of this comfort food.
* The cabbage or brussel 
spouts can be omitted altogether. If you like, you can add 4 spring onions (finely sliced) to the mixture as it cooks.
* To cut back on saturated 
fats, fry in olive oil (100 ml) instead of the butter, then once cooked, drizzle about 50 ml extra virgin olive oil over the top and sprinkle with some freshly cut flat-leaf parsley.
* To add some saturated 
fats, when frying bacon,  keep the fat in a container in the fridge. Then use  2 tablespoons bacon fat to fry the bubble-and-squeak—nasty but delicious!
* This dish is truly open 
to interpretation and any combination of cooked vegetables can be reheated in this fashion. However, it is worth remembering that potato and/or pumpkin should be used to act as a binding agent. Basically, as the potato and/or pumpkin reheat, they break up and mash slightly, holding all the other ingredients together.
* This is a great breakfast 
dish and once cooked can be moulded into egg rings. Then fry some eggs and place over the top of the bubble-and-squeak.
* Leftover roasted 
vegetables— as fantastic 
as they are in bubble-and-squeak— can be used equally 
as well in a frittata and served for breakfast, or for lunch with a light green salad.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 160Corn on the Cob
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 ears of sweet corn, husks and silks removed
salt and pepper1 tablespoon butter (optional)
Method:
1. in a large pot, bring plenty of water to the boil.2. add the corn, bring back to the boil, then reduce 
the heat to low.
3. simmer the corn for 5 minutes or longer if you  
like the corn to be softer. cooking the corn for  5–10 minutes ensures the corn kernels stay crisp and juicy. The longer the corn is simmered, the more juice will be cooked from it, leaving a soft, less sweet and tasty cob of corn.
4. remove from the simmering water and season with 
salt and pepper and a knob of butter if desired.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
161* You will need— saucepan 
and spoon measure (optional).
* It has been said that 
adding ‘a small amount 
of sugar to the boiling water’ enhances the natural sweetness of the corn, but this is still unfounded chemistry.
* Adding salt to the water 
in the beginning can affect the cooking time of the corn by toughening the kernels’ outer layer, so it is advised not to add salt at this point, but rather season once removed from the water.
* The corn can be seasoned 
with chilli powder or sumac, which is a sour berry ground to a powder— originally from 
the Middle East— to suit 
individual taste.
* Grilling corn on a 
barbecue hotplate or baking in a hot oven (210°C) requires corn with the husks still intact so as to steam the corn within. Peel the husks back to the stem and remove the silks. Rub with butter or drizzle with olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Pull husks back over the kernels and tie the ends with cooking twine. Drop in cold water for 2 minutes before placing on the barbecue; this will stop the husks from burning before  the corn is cooked. Allow  15 minutes cooking time, turning regularly before serving.
* Leftover cooked corn can 
be refrigerated for up to 5 days. At any point the kernels can be removed with a knife or grated using a hand grater, then used in stir-fry, fried rice, corn fritters, bubble-and-squeak, chicken and sweet corn soup, or chowder.
* Once the corn has been 
removed from the boiling water, it can be placed in cold water to halt the cooking process.
* If preparing a large 
dinner or banquet, the cob can be cut into rounds about 2 cm thick either before or after boiling; these are easier to eat than a large cob and add colour to the plate.
* To clean the cob— grab the 
husks with as much of the silks as possible and peel down. Once you have pulled away the husks, some of the silk will remain on the cob. To remove, hold one end of the cob and grasp the other end and twist while running your hand along the length of the cob.* Corn can be microwaved  
by placing in a bowl with just enough water (about  2 tablespoons) to cover the base of the dish; then cover with plastic wrap and cook on high for 6 minutes; turn the cob after 3 minutes.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 162Pickled vegetables
Makes about 3½ kg
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g green capsicum, seeded and cut into strips
600 g carrots, cleaned and cut into thin strips1 medium cauliflower, broken into florets1 cup cooking salt2 cups distilled white vinegar2 cups water
½ cup white sugar
4 garlic cloves, sliced1 bay leaf2 teaspoons dill seeds2 teaspoons celery seeds2 teaspoons yellow mustard seeds1 teaspoon crushed dried chilli flakes
Method:
1. combine all the vegetables and the salt in a large 
mixing bowl. cover with ice; let stand for 3 hours. Drain the vegetables; rinse very well.
2. combine the vinegar, water, sugar, garlic and 
spices in a large saucepan. cover and bring to the boil. remove the lid, add the vegetables, remove the pan from the heat and allow to cool to room temperature.
3. Pack into sterilised jars, leaving about 1.2 cm 
space at the top of the jar. remove air bubbles by gently tapping the jar on the bench. screw on caps and store in a cool place until needed. once opened, refrigerate.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
163* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, cup, spoon and weight measures, large bowl, colander or strainer, large saucepan or pot and jars with lids.
* Always choose vegetables 
of the best quality when pickling. This means firm, ripe but not too ripe, and blemish-free vegetables. If there are imperfections, remove them before cooking.
* The idea of salting the 
vegetables before they are pickled is to draw out natural water contained in the vegetables. This water would otherwise dilute the pickling solution during storage, which in turn will diminish the preserving quality.
* Use cooking salt in this 
recipe as table salt contains a ‘free-flowing’ chemical which can make the vinegar turn cloudy.
* Other styles of vinegar 
can be used— especially 
recommended are wine vinegar, malt vinegar (contains gluten) and cider vinegar.
* This recipe can also 
be used for pickling just cauliflower.* The spices in this 
mixture can stay loose in the solution, even when bottling; be aware, however, that they will continue to impart flavour and may even be too strong if storing the vegetables for a lengthy period. As a suggestion, tie the spices in a piece of muslin cloth and remove once the vegetables have cooled and are ready for bottling.
* Do not boil the pickling 
solution for too long. Vinegar is an acetic acid that is volatile and loses strength when boiled for even short periods.
* When pickling, the liquid 
solution is best at 50 per cent vinegar and 50 per cent water, and the combined weight of the liquid should equal the total weight of the vegetables.
* It is a good idea to label 
the jars with the ingredients and the date they were packed.
* Store in a cool place away 
from sunlight as light causes a loss of colour in the vegetables. Mould will also develop if the vegetables are not completely submerged in the pickling solution.* Always try and store the 
pickled vegetables for 4– 6 
weeks prior to using. This time in storage will help the flavours mellow and combine perfectly.
* Serve pickled vegetables 
as part of an antipasto plate with salami, frittata, grilled mushrooms and some leafy greens.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 164Potato mash
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1.5 kg s ebago or Pontiac potatoes, peeled and quartered
salt
50 g butter150 ml creamfreshly ground white pepper
Method:
1. Boil the potatoes in lightly salted water until 
tender. Drain.
2. heat the butter and cream in the microwave or in a 
saucepan.
3. use a whisk or potato masher to mash the potatoes, 
pour in the hot cream and butter, add salt and pepper, and whisk until light in texture. serve immediately.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
165* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, large pot, weight and liquid measures, whisk or potato masher and a bowl or small pot to heat cream and butter.
* This style of mash is very 
smooth and rich and is often the very reason customers in a restaurant are inspired to try and make their mash the same. To be fair, this style of mash is not normal, domestically at least.
* Usually, mash made at home 
is done with milk and butter, often added cold. If cream seems a bit too much, then use milk— but the real secret 
is in the heating of the milk and butter. By doing this, there is less chance of the mash being overly lumpy.
* Another good tip to avoid 
lumpy mash is to invest in what’s called a ‘potato ricer’ or a ‘mouli’, both of which are tools preferred by the professional cook. An extra—or an extreme —step is 
to pass the already processed potato through a fine meshed ‘drum’ sieve. After that, the hot butter and cream are added. Crazy . . . but brilliant at the same time.
* For the health conscious, 
we have an alternative for you too. Replace the cream and butter with 200 ml extra virgin olive oil. It may seem like a lot but for 1.5 kg potato, it really is just enough. If the flavour of extra virgin olive oil is too strong, then simply use a good olive oil.
* Mashed potato can be 
stored, covered in the refrigerator for 5 days. To reheat, use the microwave on medium power to avoid burning the potato near the outside of the dish. Alternatively, reheat in a saucepan with an extra dollop of butter or cream.
* Never use a food processor 
to mash potatoes thinking you will get a smoother texture. All you will get is a pasty batch of potato glue that for some reason still has small lumps in it. The problem with a food processor is that it works the potato starch too vigorously, making a sticky, white mess instead of a fluffy white mash.
* Use white pepper in mash 
to avoid unsightly specks of black pepper.
* Other good mashing 
potatoes include— Desiree, 
Spunta, Delaware, Bison and Toolangi Delight.* Cold mash is a great 
base for lentil or chickpea burgers.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 166Ratatouille
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 medium eggplants
2 zucchini1 tablespoon cooking salt1 large brown onion3 garlic cloves3 large ripe tomatoes1 red capsicum100 ml olive oil1 bay leafsalt and pepper
Method:
1. To prepare the vegetables—cut the eggplant and 
zucchini into 2-cm dice. Place in a bowl and sprinkle with the salt, cover and set aside for 30 minutes.
2. Peel and finely dice the onion and garlic and set 
aside.
3. remove the stem end of the tomato with a paring 
knife and score the skin at the top with a cross (X). Place the tomatoes in a bowl and cover with boiling water from the kettle. remove after 20 seconds and peel. slice in half, remove and discard any seeds. Dice the tomatoes and set aside.
4. cut the capsicum in half and remove the stem, seeds 
and any white ‘ribs’. Dice the capsicum to the same size as the tomatoes, eggplant and zucchini.
5. Wash and drain the eggplant and zucchini and pat 
dry.
6. To cook—heat the olive oil in a large pot, add 
the onion and garlic and cook for 3–5 minutes on low–medium heat without colouring. add the remaining ingredients, cover with a lid and cook over low heat for 1 hour. season with salt and pepper and serve.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
167* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, liquid measures, bowls, large, heavy-based pot with lid and wooden spoon.
* Ratatouille is an 
excellent accompaniment for grilled and roasted meats. It also serves well as a main dish on its own.
* Leftover ratatouille can 
be used with pasta or for vegetarian lasagne. As a pasta sauce, either keep chunky or blitz in a food processor.
* Served cold it makes for 
an excellent salad either on its own or mixed with some cooked and cooled pasta.
* Salting the eggplant 
and zucchini is optional. The idea is to draw out excess moisture which would otherwise dilute the sauce as it cooks. Excess moisture in the ratatouille can be cooked out; continue to simmer the dish until it is thick.
* Fresh tomatoes can be 
substituted for a can of chopped tomatoes (400 g).
* Serve cold ratatouille 
with grilled ciabatta, a squeeze of lemon juice and a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil.* Add fresh herbs at the end 
of cooking. Basil, parsley or oregano can be stirred into the ratatouille with  2 minutes of cooking to go.
* Covered and refrigerated, 
this dish will keep for at least 5 days.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 168Roasted vegetables
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 medium potatoes, peeled
300 g pumpkin, peeled and seeds removed2 carrots, peeled1 parsnip, peeled1 sweet potato, peeled2 medium beetroot, washed1 brown onion4 garlic cloves, left whole in their skins
½ cup olive oil
1 teaspoon salt2 teaspoons dried rosemary
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.2. cut all the vegetables into even-sized pieces, 
generally quarters and eighths provide the best roasting size.
3. Place all the ingredients in a baking dish and 
mix thoroughly with the garlic, olive oil, salt and rosemary.
4. roast for 45 minutes or until cooked through and 
crisp, turning once or twice.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
169* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler, cup and spoon measures and bowl.
* The vegetables listed are 
only suggestions, you can mix and match to your particular taste but be mindful that if you are combining root vegetables with soft vegetables, their cooking times differ. So if you are combining both, cut the root vegetables smaller than the soft vegetables to even out the roasting time.
* Other soft vegetables can 
be roasted separately to the hard root vegetables. A combination of zucchini, eggplant, capsicum, cherry tomatoes, mushrooms, shallots and garlic cloves can be pan-fried in plenty of olive oil to add colour before transferring to a roasting tray to soften for 20 minutes. Serve immediately or cool completely and mix with pesto to serve as a salad.
* All vegetables can be 
roasted to a softer texture rather than crispy; 
½ cup of 
any stock added to the baking dish before roasting will do this.
* If roasting potatoes on 
their own, it is highly recommended to peel and quarter the potatoes and simmer them in salted water until tender. Drain and toss in olive oil before roasting for 20 minutes at 200ºC.
* Fresh herbs are always 
best but not necessary for this dish.
* Add 2 tablespoons passata 
(smooth tomato sauce) for colour and a hint of flavour.
* You can test if the 
vegetables are ready by inserting a skewer— if it 
passes easily through, then they are ready.
* Leftover roasted 
vegetables can be used to make bubble-and-squeak. It is a good idea to double the amount so there are leftovers which could also be used in a roasted vegetable salad with a simple vinaigrette or mayonnaise.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 170400 g mixed vegetables, equal quantities
¼ cup peanut oil
4 garlic cloves, very finely sliced
150 ml chicken or vegetable stock, hot4 tablespoons oyster sauce2 tablespoons light soy sauce1 tablespoon sesame oil
½ teaspoon finely ground black pepper
500 g fresh noodles (hokkien, rice, egg, flat, thin  
or thick), rinsed in hot water and drained
Method:
1. cut or slice the vegetables into bite-sized pieces. 
Mix in a bowl and cover with boiling water. Drain after 20 seconds.
2. heat a wok until smoking lightly. add the peanut 
oil, then the garlic. Very quickly add the vegetables before the garlic burns. stir the vegetables, do not toss, as too much heat will be lost.
3. add the hot stock and cook for 2–3 minutes. add the 
sauces, sesame oil and pepper. Then add the noodles and mix well. serve immediately or cook for a further 1–2 minutes if vegetables are still too crisp.Vegetable and noodle stir-fry
Serves 2xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxVegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
171* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl or 
2 for the vegetables, wok, wok spatula, and cup, liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* See the tips on stir-
fries—wok cooking in Really 
Useful Information.
* This recipe serves 2, 
doubling the recipe is fine but the ingredients will need to be cooked in 2 batches. Too much heat from the wok is lost with the addition of a large amount of food and this tends to stew the ingredients, overcooking the noodles and making the dish gluggy.
* Always use maximum heat 
under the wok.
* Blanching and draining 
the vegetables ensures rapid cooking times.
* The best place to buy 
fresh noodles is at an Asian grocer, not at the supermarket (they contain too many preservatives).
* Almost any combination 
of vegetables can be used for stir-fry, depending on what’s in season and personal preference. Try baby corn, carrot, purple carrot, broccoli, broccoli stems, broccolini, cauliflower, young kale, baby spinach, rocket, snow pea shoots, tatsoi, fresh mushrooms, dried mushrooms (reconstituted), snow peas, sugar snap peas, bean sprouts, spring onions, onion, chives, capsicum, rhubarb, snake beans, green beans, eggplant, zucchini, celery, Chinese cabbage, 
bok choy, Chinese broccoli, bamboo shoots, water chestnuts, or sponge gourd.
* Herbs and spices include—
coriander, coriander root, basil, Asian basil varieties, lemon grass, white pepper, Sichuan pepper, ginger, or galangal. Add any fresh herbs to the wok with 10 seconds to go.
* To make a chilli stir-
fry—finely chop fresh chilli 
to taste and add with the garlic in the above recipe.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 172Vegetarian lasagne
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 ml olive oil
1 large brown onion, finely diced4 garlic cloves, crushed1 large eggplant, diced200 g button mushrooms, chopped250 ml white wine2 x 400 g cans diced tomatoes2 tablespoons tomato paste1 carrot, peeled and grated1 tablespoon dried oregano1 teaspoon saltfreshly ground black pepper
¼ bunch fresh flat-leaf parsley, chopped
lasagne sheets500 g firm ricotta cheese150 g parmesan cheese, grated
Method:
1. in a large pot over medium heat, add the oil, onion 
and garlic and cook without colouring for 5 minutes. add the eggplant and mushrooms and continue to cook until softened, about 15 minutes.
2. add the white wine and reduce by half. Then add 
the tomatoes, tomato paste, carrot and oregano. Bring to the boil then reduce heat to a simmer and cook, covered, for 30 minutes. remove the lid and continue to cook until the sauce thickens.
3. add salt and pepper to taste, remove from the heat 
and stir in the parsley.
4. Place some of the sauce in the base of a lasagne 
dish, sprinkle with some ricotta and a small amount of parmesan then top with a layer of pasta sheets. repeat with 3 more layers. spread the remaining sauce over the top, and sprinkle with the parmesan.
5. Bake in a preheated 180ºc oven for about  
45 minutes.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
173* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, large, heavy-based pot, wooden spoon, lasagne dish, weight, spoon and liquid measures  and grater.
* A good alternative to 
this method is to chargrill vegetables on the barbecue and layer them in the dish. Use roasted capsicum, zucchini, eggplant and potatoes. A quick fix is to visit the local delicatessen and buy the grilled vegetables already done.  Then use a pasta sauce to save time.
* Use different cheeses for 
interesting changes to the base lasagne. Try buffalo mozzarella, goat’s cheese, cheddar, fetta or a Dutch smoked cheese.
* Make a traditional 
béchamel sauce or mornay sauce to pour over the finished lasagne. You will need about 1 litre for the above recipe. Drizzle some of the hot béchamel sauce in between each layer.
* The combination of 
vegetables in a vegetarian lasagne can be as basic or as complicated as you want.* A simple mushroom lasagne  
might consist of 50 g dried porcini mushrooms soaked in hot water for 30 minutes, and 500 g fresh portobello mushrooms, and 500 g button or field mushrooms, both sliced and fried in plenty of butter, olive oil and garlic. Layer with an excellent béchamel sauce and top with freshly grated parmesan cheese.
* Lasagne can be assembled 
well in advance and cooked when needed. It will also freeze well once assembled. Defrost in the refrigerator overnight before baking in a preheated oven.
* Leftover cooked lasagne 
reheats well. Simply cover with foil and reheat in a 150ºC oven for 30 minutes, or microwave on medium for several minutes or until hot.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 174Zucchini slice
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
450 g zucchini (approximately 3 medium)
5 eggs, lightly beaten150 g plain flour100 ml olive oil50 g tasty cheese, gratedsalt and pepper
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. line a baking dish or 
slice pan with baking paper.
2. remove the top and end of the zucchini and grate. 
Gently squeeze out excess moisture to prevent the slice from being too wet. Place in a bowl and add the remaining ingredients. Mix thoroughly and check the seasoning.
3. Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish and 
bake for 35 minutes or until the top is golden and the middle is firm to the touch.Vegetables-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
175* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, grater, 
bowl, weight and liquid measures, wooden spoon, baking dish (about 28 cm x  18 cm) and baking paper.
* This is a very basic 
recipe for zucchini slice, anything else added constitutes it being called a zucchini and (fill in the blank) slice. A popular version is zucchini and bacon slice— dice 1 small 
onion and 2 bacon rashers and fry in 2 tablespoons olive oil until softened and lightly coloured. Cool before mixing into the raw zucchini mixture.
* When squeezing the excess 
moisture from the grated zucchini, do not be tempted to wring it dry as it will render the slice too dry. A gentle squeeze over the sink is all it needs.
* Zucchini are available 
all year round. Be sure to buy only firm, glossy looking zucchini and wipe thoroughly with a damp cloth before grating.
* Large zucchini tend to 
be dry, fluffy and seedy on the inside and are not as flavoursome as the smaller, sweeter ones.* Flour is one of the 
binding agents in this recipe. Gluten-intolerant cooks or coeliacs can replace the flour with 1 cup grated potato, also squeezed of excess moisture before adding to the grated zucchini.
* The use of self-raising 
flour, although compatible, will give the slice some rise and therefore have it looking more like a savoury cake than a tasty, thin slice.
* Zucchini slice is an 
excellent after-school snack or light lunch served with a green salad.
* Add 2 tablespoons fresh 
herbs to the mixture— try 
basil, parsley, dill or thyme.
* Try toasting ½ cup pine 
nuts and stir into the mixture before baking.
* Top the slice with 1 cup 
grated parmesan cheese before placing in the oven for a cheese crust.
* Covered and refrigerated, 
zucchini slice will last for 5 days. It can be frozen but the texture will change slightly so is best consumed fresh.------------------------------------
8.  Salads xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 178Caesar salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 slices white bread, ciabatta or sourdough
4 bacon rashers2 tablespoons vegetable or safflower oil4 cos lettuce or 2 baby cos (see Hints and tips)caesar dressing
75 g good parmesan cheese, shaved
Method:
1. Dice the bread into 2-cm cubes and cook according 
to croutons recipe.
2. cut the bacon into 5-mm strips and fry in the oil 
until crispy, drain on paper towel.
3. remove all the dark outer leaves if using large 
cos. Wash and dry the inner leaves, preferably using a lettuce spinner, and tear into a large salad bowl.
4. add the croutons and bacon and mix in the caesar 
dressing. serve with shaved Parmesan over the top.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
179* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bread 
knife, sauté pan, vegetable peeler, weight and spoon measures, large salad bowl, equipment to make the Caesar dressing and a salad spinner if available.
* Like all great dishes, the 
quality of the ingredients is paramount to a successful outcome. Good bread made into crispy, dry croutons is very important to help soak up the dressing as well as adding texture. Great quality bacon and parmesan cheese are equally important in balancing the flavours of this decadent salad.
* Regular, large cos 
lettuces have met some aggressive competition from a new cultivar— the baby 
cos. Old school cos is at a disadvantage because of the waste factor. All the dark and slightly bitter outer leaves are discarded in search of the light green and sweet inner leaves. A few of the outer leaves can be used in other salads or in sandwiches and rolls, but ultimately they are a forsaken food. Baby cos has about 1 per cent wastage, 1 or 2 outer leaves at worst are sacrificed as the remaining lettuce is put to good use. Baby cos are readily available from supermarkets and green grocers everywhere.
* There are plenty of hints 
and tips in the recipe for Caesar dressing.
* To make a special Caesar 
salad, try adding crispy shards of prosciutto. Purchase thinly sliced prosciutto from a deli— 2 
slices per person. Place on a baking tray lined with baking paper and bake in the oven at 180ºC for 5– 10 minutes or 
until shrivelled slightly and browned; they will go crunchy once cooled.
* Add a poached egg to finish 
off the special Caesar salad.
* If you are a fan of 
anchovies, drape an extra anchovy over each salad before serving.
* Chargrill the baby cos 
lettuce briefly. Slice the lettuce in half, keeping the root end intact so the leaves stay attached. Spray with olive oil spray, season  with salt and pepper, and place on the chargrill of  the barbecue. Cook for  1 minute, place in a serving bowl, drizzle with dressing and top with a poached egg, crispy prosciutto and shaved parmesan.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 180Chef’s salad
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g piece best quality ham
250 g piece cooked turkey breast200 g vintage cheddar cheese250 g cherry or grape tomatoes1 lebanese cucumber
2 baby cos lettuce1 cup purchased whole egg mayonnaisejuice of 1 lemonsalt and pepper
Method:
1. slice or dice the ham, turkey and cheese. Place in 
a large salad bowl.
2. add the tomatoes. slice the cucumber in half 
lengthways and then slice into 5-mm thick half moons.
3. Wash and dry the lettuce, tear into pieces and add 
to the salad bowl.
4. for the dressing—in a small, separate bowl, whisk 
the mayonnaise with the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. check the consistency, which should resemble pouring cream. add some water to thin the dressing if needed.
5. Pour the dressing over the salad and mix.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
181* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
whisk, mixing spoons, cup and weight measures.
* Chef’s salad is said to 
originate in the US. After that fact, it is very sketchy as to how, where and when it came about. My own guess is that it came into being because many chefs just throw a bunch of handy ingredients together for a quick bite to eat during a 14-hour shift with no breaks. Sometimes the resulting feed is tasty enough to put on the menu—although this is a very rare occurrence.
* Chef’s salad is the 
ideal Boxing Day meal. The ingredients smack of way too many leftover proteins from Christmas Day that can be mixed with lettuce and a dressing.
* You can buy whole pieces 
of ham from the meat section in the supermarket. They are sold as individual pieces, usually about 300 g in size, vacuum packed and called something groovy like ‘double smoked’ or ‘premium leg ham’ or ‘spiced gypsy’.
* Cooked turkey breast may 
be a bit harder to find, but check the freezer section in the supermarket. If no pre-cooked stuff is available, buy raw and cook it yourself. Chicken breast makes a worthy substitute.
* Grape tomatoes are an 
Australian variety developed by Australian horticultural scientists. This product won a gold medal in France for best new product for fruit and vegetables. Based on the Roma tomato, it is packed with flavour and is my favourite small tomato to use.
* Baby cos lettuce is 
another exceptional product. See Hints and tips in the Caesar salad recipe.
* Lebanese cucumbers are 
great because of their size. They are like a small continental cucumber. So instead of using and possibly wasting half a continental cucumber, the Lebanese cucumber is ideal. They are available at all supermarkets and greengrocers.
* The creamy dressing is 
just one option. Substitute with a simple dressing of lemon juice and extra virgin olive oil.* The theme of a chef’s 
salad is ham, turkey and cheese mixed with lettuce and a dressing. Other salad ingredients can be added to your personal taste.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 182Coleslaw
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 cups shredded cabbage
2 carrots, peeled
½ bunch spring onions, wiped with a damp cloth
1 red or green capsicum, halved, seeds and core removed1 cup mayonnaisesalt and pepper
Method:
1. Place the cabbage in a bowl and set aside.2. Grate the carrots or for the more skilled cook, 
julienne (fine strips) the carrot and add to the cabbage.
3. slice the green tops of the spring onions into 
rounds about 5 mm thick, and slice the white base a bit thinner, about 1–2 mm. add to the cabbage and carrot.
4. Dice the capsicum, add to the bowl and mix until 
combined. keep refrigerated until ready to serve. Just prior to serving, mix in the mayonnaise and season with salt and pepper if needed.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
183* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, grater, 
vegetable peeler, large salad bowl and equipment for mayonnaise.
* The cabbage for coleslaw 
can vary. The traditional white cabbage is a sturdy, big-tasting cabbage that holds up well, even when dressed, for days and is ideal for picnics and lunches the following day.
* Red cabbage can be used 
instead of or in combination with the white cabbage, and is also a sturdy cabbage with lasting crunch. Be aware that the natural purple colouring (anthocyanins) will discolour the salad, turning white into lavender.
* Soft cabbages like Savoy 
and wombok (Chinese cabbage or napa cabbage) are more delicate in flavour and softer in texture, and give a finer shred to the amateur cook. The only downside is that the leaf won’t hold as long once dressed and is not as good the next day. If taking on a picnic, make the salad and keep the dressing separate and mix once at the picnic spot.
* Use a simple vinaigrette  
instead of mayonnaise, adding 1 teaspoon sugar to the dressing to counter the acid of the vinegar.
* This basic recipe for 
coleslaw can have many other combinations. Different chopped or torn herbs can be added like flat-leaf parsley (1 cup), basil (1 cup) or dill (1 cup), depending on what it is served with.
* For a more Asian feel, use 
wombok then add 1 cup bean sprouts and 1 cup shredded mixed herbs like mint, Thai basil, coriander and Vietnamese mint. Try adding  2 long red chillies (de-seeded and thinly sliced). Use a simple dressing of  2 tablespoons soy sauce,  1 tablespoon sugar,  1 tablespoon sesame oil,  2 tablespoons lime juice and 4 tablespoons peanut oil.
* Onion, garlic and ginger 
are considered too strong to use in a coleslaw; however, I’m never one to be a naysayer, so if a big bite is required then use small amounts of any or all of these ingredients.
* Coleslaw is not only good 
as a stand-alone salad, but is fantastic as a filling in sandwiches and rolls.* A classic coleslaw 
dressing has more of a sweet and sour flavour. To 1 cup of mayonnaise add 30 ml white wine vinegar and 15 g castor sugar.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 184Fattoush
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 continental cucumbers
4 vine-ripened tomatoes, cut in half and de-seeded1 red onion
½ bunch fresh flat-leaf parsley
¼ bunch fresh coriander
½ bunch fresh mint
2 tablespoons olive oil3 slices pita bread3 garlic cloves, finely chopped150 ml extra virgin olive oiljuice of 2 lemonsfreshly ground black pepper and sea salt1 iceberg lettuce, washed and separated into cups
Method:
1. slice the cucumber in half lengthways, remove the 
seeds with a teaspoon, then slice into 5-mm thick half moons.
2. cut the tomato into dice about the same size as the 
cucumber. Place both in a large bowl.
3. finely dice the purple onion and add to the tomato 
and cucumber.
4. Wash the parsley, coriander and mint, and remove 
the leaves. roughly tear the leaves and add to the other ingredients.
5. in a large frying pan, heat the olive oil. Tear the 
pita bread into small, bite-sized pieces. in  2 batches, fry in the hot oil until crisp and golden. Place the fried pita bread on paper towel to drain and allow to cool.
6. To dress the salad—mix the garlic, extra virgin 
olive oil and lemon juice with the pepper and salt, pour over the salad and add the fried pita bread.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
185* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
mixing spoon, bowl, liquid and spoon measures, large frying pan and tongs.
* This is a traditional 
Levantine dish. The Levant area borders the Mediterranean Sea with a landmass mostly in the Arabian Peninsula.
* The seeds in the cucumber 
and tomato are removed for two reasons: primarily to reduce the water content in the salad and prevent the crisp pita bread from becoming soggy; and secondly, the seeds in both ingredients are slightly bitter.
* Sumac can be sprinkled 
into the salad to give it a different sour note. Reduce the lemon juice by half. Sumac is a small purple berry that is often soaked in water and it is the water that is used instead of lemon juice as a souring agent when lemons are not in season in some Middle Eastern countries.
* To add more bulk to the 
salad, use some of the leftover iceberg lettuce, shred and mix with the other ingredients.* To refine the salad 
slightly to give it a modern restaurant feel, finely dice the ingredients then place a spoonful of the fattoush into a prepared iceberg lettuce cup and serve on individual plates or a platter similar to the way Chinese san choy bao is served.
* This salad is a great way 
to use up stale pita or flat bread and is fantastic to serve in summer with grilled barbecue meats.
* Try adding ½ cup fetta 
cheese and ¼ cup black 
olives to the salad.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 186Greek salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 lebanese cucumbers
2 ripe tomatoes, cut into wedges
1 red onion, thinly sliced2 teaspoons fresh oregano or marjoram, chopped
½ cup olive oil
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar or lemon juice
¼ teaspoon salt flakes
Method:
1. Peel (optional) and slice the cucumbers in half 
lengthways and then slice into half moons.
2. Place the cucumber, tomato and onion in a bowl and 
mix in the oregano or marjoram, olive oil, vinegar and salt. Mix to evenly coat the tomatoes and cucumbers.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
187* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
and cup measures, bowl and mixing spoon.
* This is a true Greek salad 
as compiled by a true Greek friend ... read on.
* It is a common 
misconception that Greek salad has fetta cheese in it. No self-respecting Greek would add fetta, or olives for that matter, to their salad. Fetta is traditionally served on the side, either on its own or sprinkled with oregano and a slick of olive oil. If you must have fetta in your salad, you can leave it as a slab, rather than diced, and place it on top of the salad. Olives are to be enjoyed on their own.
* If you must use fetta, 
please do not use the Australian variety for this salad. It is often drier and has a rubbery texture. The European varieties bring much more flavour. If you do this, limit the salt you put in the salad because the fetta is already salty.
* In essence, a Greek salad 
is a simple, uncomplicated combination of the essentials that are often grown in one’s vegetable patch. It forms the base of all other salads but these would not necessarily be a Greek salad.
* Another vegetable that 
is traditionally used is the banana pepper or white pepper— it looks like a large 
yellow chilli, after all peppers and chillies are both part of the capsicum family. If you are fortunate enough to source banana peppers, slice one lengthways, remove the seeds and membrane just like a red or green pepper, then finely slice crossways and add to the salad. They are sweeter than other peppers.
* Lettuce of any variety can 
be added but then it would not be a ‘pure’ Greek salad. Often a lettuce-style Greek salad is served in Western restaurants or for tourists not familiar with the origins of the salad.
* In Greece, the Greek salad 
is called ‘horiatiki’ which translates that each village/region has its own version based on what is available. But it is always kept simple and fresh.
* A squeeze of lemon juice 
can be added for extra zing. Or add 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar to the salad.* The oil used in the salad 
should be the best you can source and afford. Extra virgin olive oil is too strong in flavour which is why regular olive oil is suggested.
* Fresh oregano is best but 
dried is fine in which case use only 1 teaspoon.
* Always keep an empty jam 
jar on hand to mix dressings by shaking and pouring easily onto salads.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 188Green salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 large handfuls mixed lettuce leaves
4 tablespoons vinaigrettesea salt and freshly ground black pepper
Method:
1. Wash and dry lettuce (a salad spinner is best).2. Just before serving toss, with the dressing and 
season with salt and pepper.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
189* You will need— spoon 
measures and salad spinner.
* One of the most important 
pieces of kitchen equipment 
for any serious cook is a salad spinner— available 
at all good kitchen supply stores. It is an invaluable tool for those who love salads or want to improve the art of making salad. The primary reason for using a salad spinner is to remove as much water as possible from the lettuce without damaging the leaf. This is important because excess water will dilute the flavoursome dressing coating the lettuce leaves. Merely shaking off the water will not have the desired results, the dressing will slip off the water-coated leaves and sink to the bottom of the salad bowl.
* Secondary to the dressing 
being diluted is the storage of the lettuce which increases by several days as the lettuce is not sitting in its own water, becoming waterlogged and rotting.
* A salad spinner is also 
ideal for drying washed herbs.
* An important fact to 
remember is to not overload the spinner, a small handful of leafy matter at a time will guarantee great results.
* This green salad is as 
simple as it gets and might be seen as a little stingy on ingredients. If you feel the need to bulk out the salad with something chunky, try adding only one or two other ingredients to keep it simple, such as avocado, cucumber, fennel, sunflower sprouts, alfalfa, spring onions, chives, or any soft herbs like parsley, chervil, basil or dill.
* The varieties of lettuce 
and green leaves can be mixed or singular, choose from—rocket, butter, cos, 
coral, watercress, frisée, radicchio, lamb’s lettuce, tatsoi or mizuna.
* The most important factor 
when putting together a simple green leafy salad is the timing of the dressing and the lettuce coming together. Added too soon and the salad will resemble compost, therefore it is vital that the salad is dressed just before eating. If it means adding the dressing at the dinner table, then do so. If bringing to a picnic, then pack salad leaves separately to the dressing.* A basic vinaigrette is 
used in this recipe, but there are many options available. For the busy cook who cannot find time to squeeze 
½ lemon and  
4 tablespoons olive oil over the salad, then might I suggest a pre-made dressing from the supermarket.
* Remember the many 
varieties of vinegars available to add different flavour profiles to a basic salad.
* Try a simple yet tasty 
dressing of 100 g blue cheese mixed with 150 ml hazelnut or walnut oil, juice of 
½ lemon 
and some freshly ground black pepper.
* Lightly steamed green 
vegetables are another alternative to a green salad. Broccoli, broccolini, green beans, snow peas or broad beans are perfect with this light salad.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 190Niçoise salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g salad potatoes (chat, kipfler or pink)
2 tablespoons cooking salt400 g green beans, topped4 eggs120 ml extra virgin olive oil40 ml red wine vinegar2 teaspoons Dijon mustardsea salt and freshly ground black pepper450 g can tuna2 baby cos lettuces, leaves washed and dried250 g cherry or grape tomatoes, halved100 g black olives (kalamata or l igurian)
Method:
1. Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover 
with cold water, add the salt and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook until just tender. Drain and cool completely before slicing into thick rounds.
2. Place the beans in a bowl or pot and cover with 
boiling water from the kettle, let stand for  2 minutes. Drain and refresh (cool) under cold water.
3. Place the eggs in a small saucepan of cold water. 
Bring to the boil over high heat. reduce the heat to low and simmer, uncovered, for 8 minutes. Drain and cool under cold running water. Peel and quarter.
4. combine the oil, vinegar and mustard in a jar with 
a lid and shake until combined. add salt and pepper to taste.
5. flake the tuna into large pieces and divide between 
4 bowls or place in 1 large bowl. add the potato, beans, eggs, lettuce, tomatoes and olives. Drizzle over the dressing.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
191* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight, 
liquid and spoon measures, large salad bowl or 4 serving bowls, 2 saucepans, egg timer, mixing spoon and jar with a lid.
* Niçoise salad is a simple, 
fresh salad originating from the region of Nice, France. There are many variations to the salad, and, of course, this is one of them.
* Traditionally, Niçoise 
salad is not served with boiled potato or any cooked vegetables. Original versions of this salad speak of raw vegetables, boiled eggs, anchovies, olive oil and tuna.
* Fresh tuna is an excellent 
way to enhance this dish to make it less of a basic lunch staple and more of a dinner party hit. Fresh tuna should be ordered as 4 x 150 g tuna steaks from the local fish monger. Lightly seal the tuna in a hot pan. It doesn’t need to be cooked all the way through to keep it moist and fresh tasting, but if you prefer it well done, just cook it longer until it resembles the canned tuna.* Once the potatoes are 
cooked, they need to cool completely to allow the sticky starches to set and become easy to slice.
* Anchovies are often 
used in a classic Niçoise salad. I recommend using 2 anchovy fillets per person. Take 8 anchovy fillets and chop them roughly before sprinkling over the salad once assembled.
* Mixed lettuce leaves can 
be used instead of the cos lettuce suggested.
* It is important to dress 
the salad just moments before serving. Everything can be prepared and ready, in fact, the salad can be mixed in advance, it is just the dressing that doesn’t get added until the last minute. The reason for this— as 
I recommend for all leafy salads— is that the acid 
(vinegar or lemon juice) and salt in the dressing burn the delicate lettuce leaves and the salt also draws out moisture, making the leaves wilt and go soggy.* When boiling eggs for a 
salad, it is best to use eggs that are 1– 2 weeks old. Fresh 
eggs are best for frying, poaching and for scrambling, but are a nightmare to peel. The older the eggs, the more alkaline they become (losing some of their natural carbon dioxide) and the easier they are to peel.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 1921 large ciabatta, french or sourdough loaf, diced  
(2 cm x 2 cm)
150 ml olive oil
1 tablespoon salt flakes4 vine-ripened tomatoes3 garlic cloves, finely chopped100 ml red wine vinegar250 ml extra virgin olive oil
½ bunch fresh basil leaves
½ bunch fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves
1 red capsicum, roasted, peeled and sliced1 yellow capsicum, roasted, peeled and sliced1 tablespoon capers, rinsed and drainedsea salt and freshly ground black peppershaved parmesan cheese (optional)
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c.2. Toss the bread in the olive oil and salt flakes 
and bake for about 15 minutes or until crispy on the outside and still a bit soft on the inside.
3. Quarter the tomatoes, remove the seeds and coarsely 
chop. Place in a large salad bowl, and mix in the garlic.
4. Place the bread in with the tomato and garlic, 
drizzle with the vinegar and oil, and toss well.
5. add herbs, capsicums and capers; toss well and 
set aside for 30 minutes or until the bread softens slightly. season with the salt and pepper to taste. serve with freshly shaved parmesan cheese if desired.Panzanella
Serves 6xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxSaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
193* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
and liquid measures, large salad bowl and mixing spoon.
* Panzanella is a classic 
Tuscan salad that’s perfect for summer months. The bread in the recipe is best used stale and is roasted in the oven to give it a crust on the outside. In some recipes, the bread is not toasted at all, and in others it is soaked in cold water for 10 minutes to soften it up completely, the water is squeezed out and the bread placed in a shallow terracotta dish, drizzled with the vinegar and oil, topped with all the other ingredients and served.
* The best version of this 
salad simply requires the cook to source the very best ingredients. Serve at room temperature to enhance the ripeness of the tomatoes and basil and to bring out the flavour of the oil. This salad can be made hours in advance and should be taken out of the fridge at least an hour before serving.
* The basic concept of 
panzanella is to soften stale or toasted bread with a vinegar dressing and add fresh tomato, garlic and basil. From there, any number of combinations can be applied.
* Try adding 400 g canned 
tuna and 1 finely diced red onion.
* If using onions in this 
salad, there is a method used to reduce the sharpness of the onions and make them more digestible. Once the onions are cut, soak in cold water and 1 teaspoon salt for  1 hour. Drain thoroughly and add to the salad.
* Take 500 g fresh salmon 
fillet and cut into 5-cm dice. Lightly sauté in 1 tablespoon olive oil until crisp on the outside and medium-rare inside. Add to the salad.
* For added freshness and 
crunch, try the addition of half a continental cucumber sliced in half lengthways, seeds removed and sliced into half moons.
* This bread salad can have 
lettuce added but then it really becomes a lettuce salad with stale croutons and therefore misses the point. Perhaps serve a simple lettuce salad to the side of a more traditional panzanella.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 194Pasta salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g short pasta (shell, bow tie, orecchiette  
or macaroni)
2 tablespoons cooking salt
1.5 litres water2 tablespoons vegetable oil2 garlic cloves, crushed1 teaspoon salt flakes50 ml balsamic vinegar200 ml olive oil
½ continental cucumber, seeds removed
1 yellow capsicum, diced250 g cherry or grape tomatoes100 g black olives
¼ cup fresh basil leaves
¼ cup fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
Method:
1. Boil the pasta in the salted water until al dente—
slightly crunchy on the inside (see Hints and tips). Drain the pasta in a colander or sieve (do not rinse), add the vegetable oil and toss. spread the pasta evenly on a baking tray and leave to cool at room temperature.
2. Place the garlic in a bowl and use a spoon to 
squash the salt flakes into the garlic. stir in the vinegar and olive oil.
3. slice the cucumber and place in a salad bowl. add 
the capsicum, tomatoes, olives, herbs and pasta, and season to taste.
4. stir in the dressing and serve.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
195* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
pot, wooden spoon, weight, liquid, cup and spoon measures, small bowl and large salad bowl.
* Consider cooking extra 
pasta when making dinner so it can be set aside for a pasta salad the next day.
* The combinations for a 
pasta salad are limited only by your imagination. Steamed or grilled vegetables, smoked, grilled or roasted meats, ham or salami, herbs and spices can all influence the outcome and style of the salad.
* The method of cooking 
the pasta is important to understand. Overcooked pasta in a salad is hideous, becoming a pasty mush of carbs and vegetables. The reasoning behind undercooking the pasta is that the pasta will continue to absorb moisture even when cold. So what appears to be undercooked as it comes from the pot becomes just perfect once cooled and mixed with the other ingredients.
* The pasta is tossed in 
oil while hot to stop it from sticking as it cools. It is never rinsed or cooled under cold water— this rinses flavour from the cooked pasta. Spreading the pasta on a baking tray in a thin layer cools the pasta naturally and keeps the flavour intact.
* If you find garlic too 
strong in flavour, then omit it from the recipe altogether or simmer the garlic in its skin with the pasta. Once cooked, simply squeeze the garlic from its skin and mash with the salt.
* Grape tomatoes are a 
tasty variety originating in Australia. Based on the Roma tomato, they are packed with excellent flavour and being similar in size to the cherry tomatoes are brilliant for salads or snacks in school lunch boxes.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 196Potato salad
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
700 g waxy potatoes (see Hints and tips)
2 tablespoons cooking salt50 ml white wine vinegar150 ml olive oil1 teaspoon salt flakes
¼ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
Method:
1. Wash the potatoes thoroughly and place in a pot 
with enough cold water to cover. add the cooking salt, bring to the boil and simmer until fork tender (about 15–20 minutes, depending on size). When checking for doneness, a skewer or fork should pierce the potato with little resistance and slide out easily. Drain the potatoes and cool on a flat tray—do not rinse under cold water. refrigerate the potatoes for several hours or overnight to allow the starches to set and make them easier to cut (no sticky residue).
2. The cold potatoes can be peeled easily or used with 
their skins left intact. cut into bite-sized pieces and place in a bowl.
3. Toss with the vinegar, oil, salt flakes, pepper and 
parsley.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
197* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
pot or saucepan, spoon and liquid measures, colander or strainer and large salad bowl.
* Waxy potatoes are a style 
of potato ideally suited to potato salad because of the stickiness of the starch which holds the potato together once cut and mixed.
* Types of waxy potato for 
potato salad include— kipfler, 
pink fir, Ratte, Southern Gold, Bintje, Wilwash, Wilja, Coliban, Pontiac, Nicola and Patrone.
* The dressing in my recipe 
is a very basic oil and vinegar mixture. Often potato salad is served with a creamy mayonnaise-style dressing— if 
this is preferred, then use 
¾ cup homemade mayonnaise or 
pre-made mayonnaise from the supermarket.
* Alternative dressings 
include the use of about  
¾ cup sour cream, yoghurt or 
crème fraîche whisked with a few tablespoons of olive oil.
* Try adding 3 hard-boiled 
eggs (roughly chopped) to the basic recipe.* Other herbs that can be 
used include— tarragon, 
chervil, chives, mint and spring onions.
* Try using different 
vinegars for the salad like balsamic vinegar, red wine vinegar, sherry vinegar or cider vinegar. Lemon juice is a good substitute for vinegar.
* Mix 1 tablespoon seeded 
mustard with 4 tablespoons olive oil, 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar and  2 tablespoons baby capers (chopped). Use this combination as a dressing.
* Chop 4 bacon rashers 
into 5-mm wide batons and fry in 
¼ cup vegetable oil 
until crisp. Drain on paper towel and mix into the salad immediately before serving to keep the crunch.
* Once mixed, the potato 
salad can be warmed through slightly (in a microwave-proof bowl) and drizzled with a little truffle oil.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 198Rice salad
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
750 g cooked medium-grain rice (white, brown or  
wild rice)
2 garlic cloves
1 teaspoon sea salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
juice of 1 lemon150 ml olive oil1 red capsicum
½ continental cucumber, seeds removed
½ bunch spring onions, finely sliced
150 g corn kernels150 g green peas
Method:
1. Place the cooked rice in a large bowl.2. for the dressing—finely chop the garlic and place 
in a small bowl. add the salt and pepper and squash with the back of a spoon to form a paste. stir in the lemon juice and oil and set aside.
3. Dice the capsicum and cucumber so they are uniform 
in size with the corn kernels and peas and add to the rice.
4. add the spring onions.5. Place the corn kernels and peas in another bowl, 
cover with boiling water from the kettle and leave to stand for 2 minutes (fresh) or 30 seconds (frozen). Drain and refresh under cold water. Drain thoroughly and add to the rice.
6. add the dressing just before serving and stir until 
all ingredients are thoroughly combined. check the seasoning and serve at room temperature.
7. leftover salad will last for up to 3 days 
refrigerated.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
199* You will need— pot or rice 
cooker for the rice, cutting 
board, cook’s knife, small and large bowl, wooden or metal spoon, strainer or colander, kettle and weight, liquid and spoon measures.
* A rice salad is a great 
way to use up leftover steamed rice. See the tips for cooking rice in Really useful information.
* Brown rice is a much 
healthier alternative and allows the cook to add a variety of nuts and seeds to the recipe— sesame seeds, 
pine nuts, pepitas and sunflower seeds are just a few ideas.
* Wild rice is another very 
healthy alternative and although not actually a true rice, it easily transforms an average white rice salad into a dynamic salad for your next party.
* Medium-grain rice is best 
as the grains stay separated once cooked and remain soft when chilled.
* Long-grain rice can be 
used for this salad but the cooked grains tend to harden considerably when chilled overnight. This is why cold long-grain rice is ideal for fried rice, but it must be heated slightly or brought to room temperature to soften before use for a rice salad.
* Short-grain rice is too 
gelatinous and will stick together which will be very frustrating when trying to make a rice salad. It is soft and sticky when cooked and when cold.
* A mixed rice salad is an 
interesting combination with varying textures, flavours and colours. Use equal parts of each and then add your favourite ingredients.
* Try replacing the  
dressing provided with  1 cup mayonnaise which can  be plain or flavoured with  2 tablespoons red curry paste.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 200Tabbouleh
Makes about 10 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 bunches fresh flat-leaf parsley
4 large vine-ripened tomatoes75 g fine bulgurjuice of 2 lemons1 small white salad onion, finely diced
½ teaspoon ground allspice
½ teaspoon sumac
2 teaspoons salt flakes100 ml extra virgin olive oil1 cos lettuce
Method:
1. Wash and completely dry the parsley. Pick over the 
parsley removing all the leaves, then with a razor-sharp knife, slice the parsley leaves as finely as possible—a process (known as a ‘chiffonade’) that takes some time but is worth the effort.
2. cut the tomatoes into quarters and remove the pulp, 
place the pulp in a sieve to strain. reserve the juice (discard the seeds). chop the tomato flesh into very small dice.
3. Place the bulgur in a sieve and wash under cold 
running water for 1 minute. Place in a bowl and mix in the lemon juice and the reserved tomato juice and leave to absorb for 30 minutes.
4. Place the parsley, tomato, onion, spices, salt and 
oil in a large salad bowl and gently fold together with the soaked bulgur.
5. serve with the washed and separated cos  
lettuce leaves.SaladS-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
201* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
and liquid measures, juicer, sieve and bowls.
* Tabbouleh can also be 
spelt tabouleh or tabouli.
* This recipe is like all 
other traditional recipes that are steeped in history and culture. Every native cook has his or her own twist to the recipe and will not submit to another, declaring theirs to be the best.
* Tabbouleh that is beige in 
colour is completely wrong. This is due to the fact that some cooks make the bulgur the main ingredient when in fact it should be green and red (parsley and tomato), the colours on the Lebanese national flag.
* Bulgur (or burghul) 
is wheat that has been soaked, cooked and dried. It can be bought whole or in small broken pieces of varying size, which is used for dishes like pilaf and tabouli. Bulgur should not be confused with cracked wheat which is the whole wheat kernel that has been cracked and takes longer to cook and has less flavour than bulgur.
* For individuals who are 
wheat- and gluten-intolerant, try replacing the bulgur with quinoa (pronounced— keen-wa) 
or buckwheat (which is not in fact a type of wheat). Do not be tempted to make it from couscous as it, too, is a wheat-based product.
* Chopping the parsley with 
a blunt knife will only bruise the leaves and crush the juice and flavour from the parsley, making it more bitter than is necessary. A ‘chiffonade’ refers to the shredding of any leafy matter— the idea is that the 
knife only passes through the leaf once, therefore minimising bruising and locking in valuable flavour and moisture.
* Curly parsley can be used 
and chopped violently to produce a finer result but a stronger parsley flavour.
* Try adding ½ bunch finely 
shredded mint and 4 finely chopped bird’s eye chillies to this recipe.
* Tabbouleh is usually 
served as an appetiser with cos lettuce used as the vessel to eat it from. It is also ideal at barbecues and in school lunch boxes.------------------------------------
9.  G r a i n s  and Pulses xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 204CousCous with preserved lemon and saffron
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 cups couscous
1 tablespoon butter
¼ red onion, finely diced
1 garlic clove, crushedlarge pinch of saffron threads2 cups chicken or vegetable stock250 g english spinach
1 preserved lemonsalt
Method:
1. Place the couscous in a medium-sized bowl.2. in a saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter and 
fry the onion and garlic until transparent.
3. add the saffron and stock and bring to the boil.4. Pour over the couscous, cover the bowl with a plate 
or plastic wrap and leave for 5 minutes. Meanwhile, cover the spinach with boiled water from the kettle, drain immediately, rinse under cold water and drain again.
5. use a fork to fluff the couscous.6. chop the spinach and add to the couscous.7. rinse the preserved lemon and remove the flesh. 
slice the rind and mix into the couscous then season with salt to taste. it is now ready to serve.Grains and Pulses-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
205* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup, 
spoon and weight measures, saucepan, wooden spoon, fork and bowl.
* Couscous, although 
resembling a grain, is best described as a very small pasta.
* Couscous is a wheat-based 
product and should be avoided by coeliacs or people with wheat or gluten intolerance.
* For best results every 
time, a great rule of thumb is to use equal parts couscous to liquid. This general rule only applies to instant couscous, which is more common and readily available in supermarkets.
* Couscous is a perfect 
accompaniment to stews and casseroles. It is also ideal as a salad, side dish or even as a dessert.
* The real trick to fluffy 
couscous is in the ‘fluffing’. For instant (5-minute) couscous, once the liquid has been added and it has rested (covered) for 5 minutes, it is important to gently scratch at the couscous to loosen the swollen grains. Do not be tempted to rush this stage, as ‘digging’ at the couscous will only result in lumps which are almost impossible to break down.
* When using pre-made 
stocks, be aware of the salt content before adding extra salt. Be especially careful when adding preserved lemon, which will also impart its own salty characteristic.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 206Fried rice
Serves 2–4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 teaspoon white sugar
2 tablespoons c hinese cooking wine or dry sherry
1 tablespoon oyster sauce3 tablespoons soy sauce
½ teaspoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons peanut oil3 large eggs, beaten1
½ tablespoons finely chopped ginger
4 garlic cloves, diced2 spring onions, white part only, finely sliced1 cup roughly chopped c hinese red roast pork
4 cups cooked long-grain white rice
¼ cup frozen green peas
2 spring onions, green part only, finely sliced on the 
diagonal
½ large red chilli, finely sliced on the diagonal
Method:
1. in a small bowl, mix the sugar, wine or sherry, 
oyster sauce, soy sauce and sesame oil.
2. heat 1 tablespoon of the peanut oil in a wok until 
it begins to smoke. Pour the beaten eggs into the wok and cook for about 1 minute, rotating the wok to spread the mixture around to form a thin ‘pancake’ and to ensure even cooking. When almost cooked through, carefully remove the omelette from the wok with a spatula or egg flip and cool. When cool, shred with  a knife and set aside.
3. Wipe out the wok with kitchen paper, add the 
remaining peanut oil and stir-fry the ginger and garlic for 1 minute, or until very aromatic. add the white of the spring onion and stir-fry for 30 seconds. add the pork and stir-fry for a further minute until heated through. stir in the sauce mixture and stir-fry 
for 30 seconds. finally, add the rice, omelette and peas. stir-fry for 2–3 minutes, or until the rice is heated through.Grains and Pulses 207 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowls to 
hold each of the ingredients before cooking begins, wok or large frying pan, spatula or egg flip and cup and spoon measures.
* Probably the single most 
important thing with making a good fried rice like that found in Chinese restaurants is to use day-old cooked rice. The question most often asked when making fried rice is, ‘How do I stop my fried rice from being gluggy?’ The answer is cold, cooked rice. Cooling allows the starches in the cooked rice to set which then allows the grains to stay firm and separated when re-cooked as fried rice—the longer cold rice 
is re-cooked, the more the grains can absorb moisture, soften and turn pasty.
* Peanut oil is only a 
suggestion; it can be replaced with any good mild-flavoured cooking oil. If, however, following a recipe is important, then buy peanut oil from an Asian food store as the aroma is one of freshly roasted peanuts as opposed to supermarket peanut oil which has no aroma at all and could in fact be anything.
* Red roasted pork can 
be seen hanging up in the windows of Chinese barbecue shops and restaurants. Often it is cheaper to buy than ham—which is an alternative 
if there is not a Chinese shop or restaurant nearby.
* Chinese cooking wine can 
be purchased from Asian food stores. But, as suggested, a dry sherry will do the job equally well.
* The vegetables used in 
this recipe are merely a suggestion. The type of vegetables or the variety going into the fried rice is simply a matter of individual taste. The main thing to remember when adding vegetables to fried rice is to keep them uniform in size and to add them in stages depending on how hard the vegetable is. For instance, carrot will need to be added early in the cooking process; peas need to be added only  1 minute before serving.
* Cooked brown rice in fried 
rice is, without a doubt, the best way to get kids and teenagers eating this wholesome grain.
* For people with wheat 
or gluten intolerance, substitute the soy sauce with tamari (a wheat-free soy sauce).Method cont.
4. divide the rice between individual bowls and 
garnish with the green of the spring onions and the chilli.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 208LentiL burgers
Makes 6 burgers
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 large potato, peeled and chopped
100 ml olive oil1 teaspoon ground cumin1 teaspoon ground coriander1 large onion, finely chopped1 carrot, peeled and finely chopped in a food processor2 celery sticks, finely chopped400 g can lentils, drained and squeezed (see Hints and 
tips)
1 tablespoon tahinisalt and pepper
Method:
1. cook the potato in boiling salted water until 
tender. Mash and set aside to cool to room temperature.
2. heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a sauté pan, add 
the spices and fry for 30 seconds or until fragrant. add the onion, carrot and celery and cook over low heat until softened. remove from the heat and cool.
3. combine the lentils and tahini in a large bowl. 
use a potato masher to squash the lentils to a paste, leaving some whole for texture.
4. add the mashed potato and the onion mixture, mix 
well and season to taste. form into 6 burgers and refrigerate for 1 hour.
5. heat the remaining oil in a large frying pan or on 
a barbecue hotplate and fry the lentil burgers over medium heat until golden brown and heated through. serve with a salad or in burger buns.Grains and Pulses-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
209* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
saucepan, sauté pan, large frying pan, potato masher, and spoon and liquid measure.
* This recipe calls for 
canned lentils for ease of use. By all means cook lentils from scratch, but the final outcome really isn’t that different. If possible, it is best to use organic lentils; this is because the price difference isn’t that big, but the flavour is.
* Canned lentils are usually 
sold in 400 g cans. But you will need 2 cans to account for the draining, rinsing and then squeezing out as much moisture as possible.
* The final mixture is still 
very moist and delicate— this 
is important as the biggest complaint about lentil and chickpea burgers is that they are too dry.
* For chickpea burgers, 
simply substitute the lentils for chickpeas. Pass the chickpeas (drained and rinsed) through a food processor to make a fine crumb before adding to the rest of the mixture.
* For even-sized burgers, 
use a ½ cup measure—
sprinkle a few sesame seeds in the bottom, press the burger mixture into the cup and turn out. Repeat the process, placing the burgers on a tray lined with plastic wrap. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour before cooking.
* If you want, the patties 
can be rolled in bran, sesame seeds or even oats before you put them in the fridge.
* This is a gluten-free, 
vegan-friendly recipe. The use of mashed potato is to avoid the use of bread crumbs, which in conjunction with egg, are often used in burger mixtures to thicken and hold the patties together.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 210Macaroni cheese
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
olive oil spray
500 g elbow macaroni80 g butter80 g plain flour1.25 litres milk2 teaspoons mustardpinch of freshly grated nutmegsalt and pepper150 g good parmesan cheese, grated450 g good cheddar cheese, grated
½ cup dried bread crumbs
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Prepare a large 
ovenproof dish by spraying lightly with olive oil.
2. cook the pasta according to the instructions on the 
packet, cool and set aside.
3. in a saucepan, melt the butter and add the flour. 
cook over low–medium heat until the flour takes on a sandy colour. remove from the heat and add all the milk. return to medium heat and whisk while bringing back to the boil. simmer for 2 minutes and stir in the mustard, nutmeg, and salt and pepper.
4. remove from the heat and stir in the parmesan and 
200 g of the cheddar cheese.
5. Place the pasta in the prepared dish, pour over 
the sauce and mix well, top with the bread crumbs and the remaining cheddar cheese. Place in the oven until heated through and golden on top.Grains and Pulses-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
211* You will need— large 
pot, colander or strainer, 
saucepan, whisk, wooden spoon, weight, liquid and spoon measures, plastic spatula, baking dish.
* There are two styles of 
macaroni cheese: the baked method (provided), and the ‘teenage’ method where the pasta is cooked and the cheese sauce is mixed through and then eaten— simple.
* The cheese used in 
macaroni cheese can vary depending on budget and taste. Using all cheddar is the cheaper option. Parmesan, pecorino, asiago, manchego or kefalotyri are all fantastic cheeses available at good delicatessens.
* The recipe I’ve given 
uses cheddar cheese but you could also try making a crust before baking by mixing  
½ cup dried bread crumbs 
with 1 cup grated parmesan cheese then sprinkling over the top.
* Other ingredients like 
bacon, ham, peas or corn could be added, but then it’s just a baked pasta with cheese and stuff.* This dish could be made 
with any style of short pasta but then it just becomes a cheesy baked pasta— that the 
kids will still love.
* Adding 2 teaspoons mustard 
powder is optional although popular among old school cooks who love this classic pasta dish.
* Try adding ¼ teaspoon 
ground cayenne pepper to the white sauce for a bit of warmth.
* Serve with a fresh simple 
salad and crusty bread.
* Leftover macaroni cheese 
will last for 5 days in the fridge. To reheat, place in  a microwave-safe dish, add  1 tablespoon milk, cover with plastic wrap and heat until piping hot.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 212Firm polenta
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 litre water or stock
200 g instant polenta50 g buttersaltMethod:
1. line a shallow baking tray or slice tray with 
plastic wrap (spray or lightly brush with oil to help the plastic wrap to stick to the tray).
2. Bring the water or stock to the boil. slowly add 
the polenta in a steady stream, whisking constantly until all the polenta is added. continue to whisk until the polenta comes to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 3–5 minutes.
3. add the butter and salt to taste, remove from the 
heat and stir until the butter is incorporated.
4. Pour into the prepared tray and smooth until evenly 
spread, then set aside to cool. refrigerate until needed. cut into squares, triangles or chip shapes, brush or spray with oil before pan-frying or grilling on the barbecue. When re-cooking, don’t turn the polenta too soon, wait until it’s fully brown on one side to form a nice crisp crust.
 
* You will need— shallow 
baking tray, weight and 
liquid measures, saucepan  and whisk.
* Polenta is dried and 
ground corn that is slightly finer than corn meal. It can easily be substituted for corn meal.
* Polenta is an ideal food 
source for those people who have to avoid wheat and gluten in their diet.* Firm polenta is great to 
serve as a replacement for potato.
* Top with parmesan cheese 
and grill before serving or mix 
½ cup grated parmesan 
cheese into the mixture when adding the butter.
* Instant polenta is already 
cooked and needs only a few minutes to finish. Regular polenta takes about 40 minutes to cook and is a bit of a work-out with a wooden spoon. Be careful as it spits from the pot and is extremely hot. After 20 minutes it may appear cooked, but do not be tempted to finish early as the polenta will still be very grainy and crunchy. Cook until it starts to pull away from the sides of the pot then beat in the butter and parmesan cheese.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Grains and Pulses 213-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Soft polenta
Serves 4–6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 ml milk
60 g instant polenta100 g taleggio cheesesaltMethod:
1. Heat the milk in a saucepan, sprinkle the polenta 
into the hot milk and bring back to the boil, stirring all the time with a whisk. Cook gently for 5 minutes until thickened slightly.
2. remove from the heat, add the cheese and stir until 
melted. add salt to taste and serve immediately.
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
whisk, weight and liquid 
measures.
* Soft polenta can also be 
made with chicken stock or vegetable stock.
* Soft polenta is very well 
suited to slow-cooked dishes served with their own sauce.
* Try Italian sausages with 
soft polenta— 4 Italian 
sausages, 100 ml white wine, 100 g butter, 1 lemon,  1 tablespoon chopped flat-leaf parsley. Grill the sausages on a chargrill until half-cooked. Slice in half lengthways but not all the way through. Place back on the chargrill and continue to cook. In a saucepan, heat the white wine, add the butter and stir. Add the sausages and lemon juice. Finish with salt, pepper and parsley just before serving. Serve with soft polenta.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 214Risotto
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 ml olive oil
1 small onion, finely diced1 kg arborio rice250 ml white wine1
½ litres boiling chicken stock
salt and pepper
Method:
1. heat the olive oil in a pot and sauté the onion 
until transparent. add the rice and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, until the rice is hot, coated in oil and translucent (see Hints and tips).
2. add the white wine, bring to the boil, then reduce 
the heat to simmering point.
3. stir in the hot stock, a ladle at a time, with 
each ladle being absorbed before the next is added. continue to stir the rice to release the starches, resulting in a creamy risotto. season with salt and pepper.
4. spread onto a flat tray to cool quickly. When 
cooled, place in an airtight container and store in the fridge until needed. Two even cups of cooked rice will serve 1 adult main course.
5. To re-heat allow an extra 1
½ litres of stock or 
water. sauté any extra ingredients like mushrooms or 
chicken, add 1 cup white wine, the rice and 2 ladles of hot stock. continue to add the stock and stir  until the rice is al dente and the risotto is creamy and thick.Grains and Pulses-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
215* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 
saucepans, ladle, wooden spoon and weight and liquid measures.
* This risotto base is 
a method used in most restaurants to speed up the end result. Half-cooking the rice in 1-kg amounts allows you to store the risotto base in the fridge for up to 5 days. This also means different risottos can be made simply by sautéing other ingredients, adding some risotto base and more chicken stock.
* For risotto Milanese— 
you will need an extra  1
½ litres stock (3 litres 
per 1 kg rice), about  6 strands saffron and 2 cups grated parmesan (grana padano). Following the method, halfway through adding the hot stock, add the saffron strands, continue to cook until the rice is al dente (still a bit crunchy on the inside). Remove the pot from the heat and add the parmesan, whip it in well until the rice is creamy. Serve immediately. Try adding 120 g bone marrow (available from the butcher) when frying the onion.
* Allow 100 g rice for a 
main course and 50 g for an entree. Although this doesn’t seem like much rice, keep in mind that it absorbs 3 times its volume in liquid plus there are the flavour profiles whether it’s a duck and mushroom risotto or seafood risotto.
* There are some brands 
of risotto rice that don’t require stirring. This is excellent news for the beginner cook but strange to risotto’s old school cooks who will tell you that the best risotto is one that has been worked constantly with a wooden spoon, so as to have the rice grains trounce one another, rendering maximum starch which in turn produces the creamy texture.
* Risotto rice is a 
medium-grain rice, with a characteristic white dot in the centre of the grain, used specifically for making risotto. There are several varieties, each claiming to produce the best risotto, including carnaroli, violane nano (or simply nano), arborio, baldo, padano and roma. Washing risotto rice is a big no-no. The more starches left with the grain, the creamier the risotto.
* Risotto is sometimes 
called ‘piedmont rice’.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 216Spaghetti carbonara (traditional, no cream recipe)
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 eggs
1 cup freshly grated 
parmesan
250 g prosciutto, diced500 g spaghetti125 g butter, cut  
into dice
freshly ground black 
pepper
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
large pot, colander, fork, grater, wooden spoon.
* Try adding 1 garlic clove 
(thinly sliced) to the egg mixture as well as 
¼ cup 
shredded flat-leaf parsley.
* This traditional method 
does not produce a saucy dish but rather the pasta is lightly coated in egg and butter speckled with prosciuttto and black pepper.* Proscuitto is different to 
bacon and ham, but all can be interchanged.Method:
1. Beat the eggs gently with a fork and add 1/3 cup 
parmesan and the prosciutto.2. cook the spaghetti in a pot of rapidly boiling 
salted water until al dente.
3. Drain the spaghetti, then return to the cooking pan 
and mix in the butter. once the butter has melted, quickly stir in the egg and cheese mixture. it is important that this process be performed immediately after draining and replacing the spaghetti in the pan, so that the egg is allowed to cook from the heat retained in the pan. Do not turn the heat back on as it will scramble the eggs.
4. sprinkle the remaining parmesan over the top, 
season with the pepper and serve immediately.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Grains and Pulses 217-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Spaghetti carbonara (weSterniSed creamy verSion)
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
fork or wooden spoon, large saucepan, sauté pan, wooden spoon and spoon, liquid, cup and weight measures.
* In both recipes, it’s 
worth noting that the egg is added away from the heat—this is done so the 
egg doesn’t overcook and scramble. If, on the other hand, the egg doesn’t seem to be cooked enough, place the pan over gentle heat, stir until the egg thickens and then serve.500 g spaghetti
2 tablespoons olive oil250 g bacon, diced1 cup sliced portobello 
or button mushrooms (optional)
1 garlic clove, thinly 
sliced
250 ml thickened creamsea salt and freshly 
ground black pepper
4 eggs, lightly beaten2 tablespoons chopped 
chives
½ cup grated parmesanMethod:
1. Cook the spaghetti in a large saucepan of rapidly 
boiling salted water until al dente.
2. Heat the oil in a sauté pan, add the bacon and fry 
until the bacon is brown and slightly crisp.
3. add the mushrooms if using and cook until softened. 
add the garlic and sauté for another 30 seconds.
4. add the cream and bring to the boil.5. add the pasta and mix thoroughly. season with salt 
and pepper.
6. remove from the heat and stir in the eggs and 
chives.
7. serve topped with parmesan cheese.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 218Spring rollS
Makes about 30
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 dried shiitake mushrooms50 g rice vermicelli noodles300 g white cabbage, finely shredded2 tablespoons peanut oil200 g pork or chicken mince1 carrot, grated
½ bunch spring onions, thinly sliced
100 g fresh bean sprouts3 tablespoons soy sauce1
½ tablespoons cornflour
1 tablespoon sesame oil30 spring roll wrappers2 litres vegetable oil, for frying
Method:
1. soak the mushrooms in hot water for 15 minutes 
until soft. Drain, squeeze out the excess water, remove and discard the hard stem, then thinly slice. soak the noodles in boiling water for 10 minutes. Drain well.
2. Place the cabbage in a bowl, cover with boiling 
water from the kettle and stand for 2 minutes. Drain, cool and squeeze dry.
3. heat the peanut oil in a wok or pan over high heat. 
add the mince and cook until no longer pink. add the cabbage, carrot, spring onion, bean sprouts, mushrooms and noodles and toss until heated through.
4. Mix the soy sauce with the cornflour and stir into 
the mince mixture. Mix well, remove from the heat and stir in the sesame oil. check the seasoning and add salt if needed. leave to cool completely before rolling.
5. To roll—place a spring roll wrapper on a flat 
surface in front of you in a diamond shape. have a small amount of water in a bowl to use for sticking the pastry together.Grains and Pulses 219-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler,  2 bowls, wok or sauté pan, large, deep pot for deep-frying, tongs or slotted metal spoon, and weight, spoon and liquid measures.
* For vegetarian spring 
rolls—replace the mince with 
extra cabbage, carrot and bean sprouts. Also add bamboo shoots (canned) or water chestnuts (canned) for extra flavour and texture. Chokos can also be grated and added to the mixture as a way to use this vegetable that lacks flavour.* Fresh chilli can add 
some bite. Add 2 bird’s eye chillies (sliced in half, de-seeded and chopped) to the filling. Alternatively, add  1 teaspoon chilli flakes.
* Spring roll wrappers 
are readily available in the freezer section at the supermarket as well as all Asian grocers. Spring roll wrappers are made with wheat flour and are not suitable for coeliacs or those with gluten-intolerance.
* For those with nut 
allergies, simply fry the mince in vegetable or canola oil.
* If you deep-fry at home, 
you can strain the used oil through paper towel and store in the fridge to re-use later. The oil can be used for day-to-day cooking as well as further deep-frying. Polyunsaturated oils can only be used once, while olive oil and unrefined peanut oil last longer and can be strained and re-used 2 or 3 times.
* Never get into the habit 
of pouring oil down the sink. Pour cold oil into an empty plastic or metal container with a lid (old milk or cream containers, jam jars and the like) before putting in the rubbish. Some countries have depots where used cooking oil can be dropped off. I suggest giving your local council a call to find out if this service is available to you.Method cont.
6. Place 1 heaped tablespoon of the mince mixture 
in the centre of the wrap. Fold the wrapper over the mince mixture from the bottom first, fold in the sides and finish rolling the spring roll. Just at the end, dab some water on the tip and roll up to stick together. Continue until all the wrappers are used. leftover filling can be frozen for another day.
7. Pour the oil into a deep pot and heat to 180ºC. 
Cook the spring rolls turning often to ensure even colouring for 3–4 minutes or until golden brown. remove from the oil and drain well on paper towel. serve hot with a dipping sauce.------------------------------------
10.  Dressings,  Sauces and Butters xxx xxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 222Aïoli
Makes about 1½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 garlic cloves, crushed
½ teaspoon salt
3 medium egg yolks
300 ml olive oil1 tablespoon lemon juice
Method:
1. Place the garlic, salt and egg yolks in a bowl. 
Gradually whisk in the olive oil in a slow, thin stream until the sauce thickens and resembles a mayonnaise.
2. stir in the lemon juice and if the mixture is still 
too thick, add 1 teaspoon water.
3. keep covered in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.savoury saucesDressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
223* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
and liquid measures, bowl, and whisk.
* The amount of garlic 
used in an aïoli or garlic mayonnaise can vary from a single clove to as many as 6 cloves and is a matter of personal taste.
* One medium-sized garlic 
clove = approximately  
½ teaspoon garlic.
* The one true key to 
ensuring success with this sauce or any emulsion-style sauce is to go slow. Rush the addition of oil to an egg base and trouble will be guaranteed— by trouble I mean 
the sauce will separate or split.
* Should your aïoli split 
while adding the oil, follow the rescue instructions given in mayonnaise.
* When making this sauce, 
keep all equipment at room temperature so that the ingredients will not be exposed to contrasting surface temperatures. This will lessen the chances of the sauce splitting.
* Although traditionally 
made in a mortar and pestle, the use of a whisk and bowl (as above), a hand-held blender, hand beaters or even a food processor will also do. If using a food processor, the recipe quantity above will get lost in a large machine and is therefore more suited to a small unit that attaches itself to a hand-held blender.
* Some recipes may call for 
a teaspoon of Dijon mustard mixed with the egg yolks and although this is not traditional, it is acceptable and can certainly assist in the emulsion of the sauce.
* Aïoli goes well with 
fish, chicken and vegetables (cooked and raw). It is also great in sandwiches and rolls instead of butter or margarine.
* Use in potato salad 
or serve alongside roast potatoes.
* Try serving with fresh 
steamed green beans.
* A cheat’s method is to use 
a store-bought mayonnaise (preferably a good quality ‘egg mayonnaise’) and replace the oil with the bought mayonnaise and simply stir in the other ingredients without the worry of splitting the sauce.* Thin the aïoli with even 
more water and you have a creamy, garlicky salad dressing.
* Add 2 tablespoons grated 
parmesan cheese and 8 finely chopped anchovy fillets to the aïoli and you have a Caesar dressing.
* Aïoli, the dressing or 
sauce, shares its namesake with a festive meal. A summer celebration in France known as ‘Aioli Monstre de Cotignac’ or ‘Grand Aioli de Tourtour’ is a feast where everyone brings a plate to share of the freshest summer vegetables, boiled eggs, poached fish and baguettes to serve with lashings of aïoli sauce.
* To make a rouille, add  
¼ teaspoon saffron and  
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper to 
the dressing when the lemon juice is added at the end. Traditionally served with the French soup ‘bouillabaisse’, rouille can be served with most cooked seafood or seafood soups.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 224Caesar dressing
Makes about 700 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 egg yolks
6 anchovy fillets4 garlic cloves, sliced1 tablespoon Dijon mustard500 ml light olive oil2 tablespoons chopped flat-leaf parsleyjuice of 1 lemonsalt and pepper
Method:
1. Place the egg yolks, anchovies, garlic and mustard 
in a food processor and blitz for 1–2 minutes to combine.
2. While the machine is running, very, very slowly 
begin to drizzle in the oil. When half the oil is added, it is safe to pour it in a bit faster. once all the oil is added, scrape the dressing into a bowl.
3. stir in the parsley and lemon juice and check to 
see if it needs any salt and pepper to taste. if the dressing is too thick, add 1 tablespoon water. store, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 4 weeks.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
225* You will need— cutting 
board, sharp cook’s knife, 
food processor, spoon and liquid measures, bowl and plastic scraper. Have a whisk on hand just in case— read 
on.
* Caesar dressing, like any 
egg emulsion sauce (including mayonnaise or hollandaise), requires a deft hand when it comes to adding the oil. If anything goes wrong, this is when it will occur. However, not to scare you, there are some tips to avoid or even remedy the situation should anything go wrong.
* Trust me when I say 
‘prevention is better than cure’. As a young apprentice, I split many an emulsion sauce, and usually in vast quantities— the remedy 
is painstakingly mind-bending and worth avoiding, therefore, this next piece of advice is vital for your sanity. When I say ‘very, very’ slowly in the method, I’m not saying it because I like writing the word often, it’s because very, very slowly is the key to success, especially in the early stages of the sauce. When adding the oil slowly, it means a thin steady stream or constant drizzle, the only step less than that is adding the oil with an eye dropper which is very, very silly. Once the emulsion starts to come together and looks like a dressing (when about half of the oil has been added), then and only then is it safe to begin adding the oil a bit faster. Only trained professionals seem to have the gift of making this sauce in the blink of an eye, but for us mere mortals, slow and steady will still achieve the same result.
* Now, should you suddenly 
sneeze while drizzling and a huge slick of oil enters the dressing and it begins to split, do not panic. First, try adding 1 tablespoon boiling hot water— this will, 
in a few instances, bring the dressing back together and you may resume the exciting task of very, very slowly adding the oil. However ...
* Should you almost finish 
adding all the oil and your past decides to catch up with you and karma makes the dressing separate, then try this debilitating remedy, which works every time—First, you will need a 
bowl and a whisk as we now go manual. Add to the bowl,  1 egg yolk only, then teaspoon by teaspoon start whisking in the split dressing, very, very slowly, until all the dressing is added with the remaining oil. Well done!
* In a hurry? Buy a jar of 
good quality egg mayonnaise from the supermarket and add the anchovies (finely crushed), garlic (finely crushed) and Dijon mustard, then finish with the parsley and lemon juice as mentioned in the recipe.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 226CoCktail sauCe
Makes about 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 ml mayonnaise
60 ml Worcestershire sauce60 ml brandy120 ml tomato ketchup1 tablespoon horseradishsalt and pepper60 ml thickened cream, 
semi-whipped
 
* You will need— 2 bowls, 
liquid and spoon measures, 
whisk and long-handled plastic spatula or wooden spoon for mixing.
* Homemade mayonnaise can 
be replaced with a quality store-bought variety. Look for a prepared mayonnaise that has ‘egg mayonnaise’ on the label as opposed to the very sweet varieties that can be too overpowering in this dressing.
* Horseradish refers to the 
jar of prepared horseradish found in all grocery stores. It can be replaced with 1 teaspoon freshly grated horseradish.
* The semi-whipped cream is 
added at the end simply to lighten the sauce, it is not entirely necessary and can be omitted. Try replacing the cream with plain yoghurt, sour cream or crème fraîche.
* In America, cocktail sauce 
can be just a simple mixture of tomato sauce and prepared horseradish and possibly some Tabasco sauce and lemon juice. A mayonnaise base is favoured in the UK as well as Australia.
* For an extra kick to the 
cocktail sauce, try adding  1 tablespoon Tabasco sauce or cayenne pepper.
* ‘Marie Rose sauce’ is 
another name for cocktail sauce although Marie Rose may differ slightly in some of the ingredients.
* Another similar sauce is 
thousand island dressing, which is pink in colour but traditionally includes (added to the above recipe)  1 chopped boiled egg,  1 tablespoon minced gherkins, 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard and 1 tablespoon of chopped dill leaves.
* Cocktail sauce goes with 
cooked seafood, especially prawns and oysters. It is a classic accompaniment to the popular dinner party dish ‘prawn cocktail’.
* It’s a good idea to hang 
on to screw-cap jars for when sauces or dressings are made. Make sure that the jar has been thoroughly cleaned with hot soapy water and dried properly before using.Method:
1. Place the mayonnaise, Worcestershire sauce, brandy, 
ketchup and horseradish in a bowl and mix well.
2. check the seasoning, adding salt and pepper if 
necessary, then fold in the cream.
3. Place in a jar with a lid and store refrigerated 
for up to 2 weeks.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 227-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Garlic butter
Makes about 300 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. Place the butter (see Hints and tips) in a bowl. 
add the garlic and mix into the butter with the remaining ingredients.
2. cover and keep refrigerated until needed. the 
butter will keep for about 7–10 days. Or wrap in plastic wrap then foil and freeze for up to 3 months.250 g butter, softened5–6 garlic cloves, crushed
zest of 
½ lemon
2 teaspoons salt1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh flat-leaf parsley
 
* You will need— weight 
and spoon measures, grater, 
cutting board, cook’s knife, wooden spoon or whisk and bowl.
* The butter can be simply 
mixed with the other ingredients or whipped until light and fluffy before adding the other ingredients. The results are only slightly different.
* For herb butter— reduce 
the garlic content by half or omit altogether. Add  1 cup chopped mixed fresh herbs or 
¼ cup dried mixed 
herbs. Most combinations of mixed herbs work; however, it is the hard herbs that will add the greatest amount of flavour, like rosemary, sage, thyme and oregano. Smaller amounts of soft herbs like curly parsley, basil, dill, tarragon or chives also enhance the flavour.
* Great ideas for flavoured 
butters include: 1 tablespoon of garlic butter per person for garlic prawns is a classic. Steamed asparagus topped with a knob of garlic or herb butter is a great way to celebrate spring. Grilled meats benefit from a knob of garlic or herb butter as a simple substitute for making a sauce. Also grilled mushrooms, steamed broccoli, sautéed clams and mussels enjoy the company of garlic butter.
* If freezing flavoured 
butters, wrap in plastic wrap, roll into a log shape about 5 cm in diameter, then roll in foil to help protect it from freezer burn. Or refrigerate as a log, then use a hot knife to cut 5-mm discs from the log and store in a clip lock bag in the freezer. Defrost the frozen butter on the bench as the meat or vegetables are cooking.
* Make garlic bread in 
advance, wrap in foil and freeze for another day. The classic way of slicing a bread stick almost all the way through and smearing the butter in each opening is easy, but try slicing the bread stick lengthways all the way through. Toast one side, cool and spread the other side with garlic or herb butter then top with some grated parmesan. Place under the grill to melt and brown the cheese. This is my favourite way to have garlic bread.
* Try adding the zest of 
1 lemon or 1 orange to the garlic butter. This is a great accompaniment to osso buco.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 228GinGer soy
Makes about 900 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
40 ml ginger juice (see 
hints and tips)
75 ml kecap manis 
(indonesian sweet soy 
sauce)
125 ml soy sauce150 ml chinese cooking 
wine or dry sherry
250 ml oyster sauce250 ml hoisin sauce
 
* You will need— juice 
extractor, bowl, whisk or 
spoon, and liquid measure.
* This sauce is ideally 
suited to chicken, fish and vegetable stir-fries.
* To make the ginger juice, 
place 80 g fresh ginger in a vegetable juice extractor.
* If you can’t make the 
ginger juice, a good substitute is to use 60 g finely grated fresh ginger or 2 tablespoons ground ginger. When grating the ginger, do not peel it, just wash it thoroughly and grate with the skin on, then add to the sauce—be sure to stir the 
sauce before adding to the stir fry.* Add 150 g honey to create 
a honey ginger soy stir fry sauce.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.
* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers. Supermarkets will stock about 90 per cent of these ingredients.Method:
1. Place all ingredients in a bowl and stir with a 
whisk or spoon until thoroughly combined. Pour into a container with a lid and refrigerate until required. This sauce will keep refrigerated for at least 2–3 months.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 229-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------4 egg yolks
2 tablespoons white wine 
vinegar
250 ml ghee (clarified 
butter) melted, or light olive oil
1 tablespoon lemon juicesea salt and freshly 
ground pepper
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
heatproof bowl, whisk, and 
spoon and liquid measures.
* This is a very quick 
recipe for hollandaise. Traditionally, what’s called a ‘reduction’ is made first, where (for this recipe) 4 tablespoons white wine vinegar with 6 black peppercorns are set over medium heat and reduced by half, then this is strained over the egg yolks and the whisking begins. This step is good practice but not entirely necessary for the beginner cook or the cook in a bit of a hurry.* Should any of these sauces 
look like separating, add 1 tablespoon hot water and whisk. If that doesn’t work, then head to the recipe for Caesar dressing for hints and tips on rescuing a separated emulsion sauce.
* Leftover hollandaise does 
not keep well as the butter in the sauce sets hard in the fridge and then upon reheating splits— which again 
is why some chefs prefer to use oil as it sets more like a mayonnaise in the fridge and can be used as such the next day.
* There are many derivatives 
of hollandaise, the most obvious would have to be béarnaise— add to the 
reduction of vinegar  1 tablespoon chopped tarragon stalks. Then add 1 tablespoon chopped tarragon leaves to the sauce. Traditionally, béarnaise is thicker than a hollandaise.
* Sauce Choron— peel and de-
seed 300 g tomatoes. Chop the tomato flesh and cook in  1 tablespoon butter until dry. Pass through a fine sieve and stir this fresh tomato paste into the béarnaise (see hint above).
* Sauce Maltaise— mix the 
zest and juice of 1 blood orange into the hollandaise.Hollandaise
Makes about 400 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. Place a small saucepan with 5 cm hot water in it 
over medium heat and bring to, and maintain, a low simmer.
2. in a heatproof bowl, whisk the egg yolks and 
vinegar. Place over the simmering water and whisk until pale, fluffy and double in volume.
3. remove from the heat and, like mayonnaise, very 
gradually whisk in the clarified butter or oil.
4. Once all the oil is added, mix in the lemon juice 
and season with salt and pepper. use immediately or cover with plastic wrap and keep at room temperature until needed.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 230Mayonnaise
Makes about 1 cup
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 egg yolks
1 tablespoon white wine vinegar250 ml light olive oilsalt and pepper to taste1 tablespoon lemon juice
Method:
1. Place the egg yolks and vinegar in a bowl and 
whisk.
2. continue whisking and very, very slowly drizzling 
the oil. Do this by adding only a few drops at a time in the beginning. as the mayonnaise starts to thicken, the oil can be added a little bit faster in a thin steady stream.
3. When all the oil has been added, season with salt 
and pepper and finish with the lemon juice. cover and keep refrigerated for up to 4 weeks.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
231* You will need— bowl, 
whisk, liquid and spoon 
measures and container for storage.
* Mayonnaise is notoriously 
difficult to make due to the ease in which it can separate or split if the oil is added too fast. Refer to the hints and tips in the Caesar dressing recipe for more information on what is required to do this task successfully.
* The oil I’ve suggested 
to use in this recipe is merely that— a suggestion. 
Other oils I recommend are safflower, vegetable, grapeseed or peanut. Olive oil, extra virgin olive oil and some nut oils like hazelnut and walnut are too overpowering in flavour for a basic mayonnaise.
* Some recipes call for 1 
teaspoon mustard (to the recipe)— this is certainly 
optional and will help in the emulsion or holding together of the sauce as the oil is being added.
* For people who are 
accustomed to the taste of the commercial brands that are very white in colour and very sweet in taste, a real mayonnaise may not be to their liking. However, there are some very good commercially made products that contain whole eggs available at the supermarket, and if time is scarce, try one of these as an alternative.
* There are many derivatives 
of mayonnaise, some I have given recipes for, like cocktail sauce,  Caesar 
dressing,  aïoli, rouille and  
thousand island dressing. Other derivatives include the following:
* Ranch dressing— an 
American staple made from mayonnaise mixed with sour cream, finely chopped spring onions and other seasonings.
* Sauce remoulade— a 
mayonnaise with mustard, finely chopped gherkins and capers added as well the herbs, parsley, chervil and tarragon. Sometimes minced anchovies are added too.
* Tartare sauce— another 
classic sauce made from the mother mayonnaise. To the mayonnaise add, 1 tablespoon finely chopped gherkins,  2 tablespoons each of finely chopped capers, shallots and curly parsley and mix until evenly combined.
* Tofu mayonnaise— 150 g 
silken tofu, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard, 250 ml olive oil. Using a food processor, blitz the tofu, lemon juice and mustard. With the machine running, slowly add the oil, a few drops at a time and then as a slow steady stream until it is emulsified and thick. Store in an airtight container in the fridge for  2 weeks. Add 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper for  extra kick.
* Heston Blumenthal, a 
great chef from the UK, has two pages devoted to the making of mayonnaise in his book Family Food. I’ve gleaned a couple of tips from him— first, the bowl and 
whisk used are important; the bowl should have a rounded base for even mixing of the dressing and the whisk should have plenty of fine wires (some whisks on the market are thick-wired with large gaps suggesting you may as well make the mayonnaise with a fork). Secondly, and very interestingly, a mayonnaise can be successfully made with just egg white, although he suggests that the flavour will be more neutral. Heston’s last point leads me to add that the recipe I’ve provided could indeed be made using a single whole egg instead of  2 egg yolks.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 232Mee goring sauce
Makes about 600 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 ml tomato ketchup
200 ml soy sauce100 ml chilli sauce 
(sambal oelek)
100 ml kecap manis 
(indonesian sweet soy sauce)
 
* You will need— liquid 
measure, bowl, whisk or 
spoon.
* This sauce naturally goes 
with the fried noodle dish ‘mee goreng’, also known as ‘Indian mee goreng’.
* Although lime juice is 
not in this recipe, it is important to finish the dish with a squeeze of lime to lift the dish and cut through the salty sweetness of the sauce.
* Sambal oelek is a basic 
chilli condiment made by grinding fresh red chillies into a paste. Readily available in supermarkets, sambal oelek is a great way to add fresh chilli to a dish without the messy job of doing it yourself.* Kecap manis is a thick, 
Indonesian sweet soy sauce. It has a syrupy texture similar to molasses, the sweetness is from the addition of palm sugar. If none is at hand make your own substitute by mixing together 3 tablespoons soy sauce (or tamari) with 1 tablespoon dark brown sugar.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers. Supermarkets will stock about 90 per cent of these ingredients.Method:
1. Place all of the ingredients in a bowl and stir 
with a whisk or spoon until thoroughly combined. Pour into a container with a lid and refrigerate until required.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 233-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Napoli sauce
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
measure, pot or saucepan and wooden spoon.
* There are many variations 
of Italian-style tomato sauce, the one provided is quick and easy.
* Fresh tomatoes can be used 
for this recipe in which case replace the canned tomatoes with 1 kg fresh, very ripe (even over-ripe) tomatoes. Peel the tomatoes, de-seed and roughly chop then cook as per the method. Fresh tomatoes have a higher water content so it may be that the sauce needs to cook for longer, as much as double the time, to achieve a thick sauce.
* Herbs added when the 
tomatoes go into the pot include any one of— or a 
mixture of— rosemary, thyme, 
oregano, marjoram, basil or parsley. One or 2 sprigs is ample to impart a soft perfume from the herbs. Too many fresh herbs can overpower the sauce. Soft herbs like parsley and basil should only be added halfway through the cooking process as their flavour is released quickly. Once the sauce is cooked, remove the stalk and discard. Dried herbs can also be added at the start of the recipe using 1 teaspoon of any of those mentioned above. 
* A hot sauce is made by 
adding 1 tablespoon chilli flakes when the tomatoes are added. If you don’t like pieces of chilli in the sauce, add 1 teaspoon cayenne pepper. The amount added entirely depends on how hot you like your tomato sauce.* For a commercial style 
tomato ketchup— use the same 
recipe and quantities but omit the oil and add: 
½ cup 
white sugar, ¼ cup red wine 
vinegar, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard, large pinch ground ginger,  
½ teaspoon five-spice powder. 
Do not fry the onion and garlic, just place all the ingredients in the pot and bring to the boil, reduce heat to a simmer and cook for 45 minutes, uncovered. Remove from the heat, cool slightly and blend either with a hand-held blender or a benchtop blender. Press the mixture through a fine sieve. Place the sauce back in the cleaned pot and bring back to the boil to remove any air bubbles. Pour into a hot sterilised jar (see Basic Preserving), seal and refrigerate.4 tablespoons olive oil
1 large brown onion, finely 
chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed800 g can crushed tomatoessea salt and freshly 
ground black pepperMethod:
1. Heat the oil in a pot or saucepan over medium heat, 
add the onion and fry until just beginning to colour. add the garlic and fry for 1 minute.
2. add the tomatoes and salt and pepper, and simmer 
for 20–25 minutes or until the sauce has reduced slightly and thickens. check the seasoning.
3. serve immediately or cool and store in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 234Pad Thai sauce
Makes about 550 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 ml fish sauce
200 g grated palm sugar or 
white sugar
150 ml tamarind juice
 
* You will need— liquid and 
weight measures, saucepan and 
a wooden spoon.
* This Pad Thai or Pat Thai 
sauce matches the noodle dish of the same name.
* Fish sauce or ‘nahm pla’ 
is a heady condiment used readily in Thai cuisine as a salt. Considering the pungency of fish sauce, it’s surprising that once added to a dish it transforms into a meaty, salty element that marries well with its surrounding flavour profiles. A deft hand needs to be used—as with salt, too much 
and the dish will be spoilt. 
* Soy sauce is not a 
suitable replacement for fish sauce.
* Palm sugar is readily 
available at Asian grocers and most supermarkets. There are several styles. Some are pale and hard and should be smashed with a mortar and pestle. Others are dark and soft. This recipe calls for the pale version. White sugar will make a good substitute.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.
* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers. Supermarkets will stock about 90 per cent of these ingredients.Method:
1. Place all of the ingredients in a saucepan, bring 
just to the boil, then reduce the heat and cook for  1 minute, stirring until the sugar dissolves. Pour into a container with a lid and refrigerate until required.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 235-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Red wine sauce
Makes 300 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— liquid and 
spoon measures, saucepan and 
sieve.
* This sauce, although 
sounding a bit lengthy, is quite easy. An easier red wine sauce follows.
* Veal or beef stock is 
usually pre-packaged and often already salted, so keep this in mind when seasoning as once the stock reduces, it may be salty enough.
* Redcurrant jelly adds 
a sweetness to the sauce to counter the reduced and concentrated tannins in the red wine. If unavailable, then replace with 1 cup port, added with the stock. Or, alternatively, add 1 tablespoon brown sugar.* Red wine vinegar can 
be omitted altogether or replaced with malt vinegar or balsamic vinegar.
* 2 tablespoons tomato paste 
can be added to this recipe when the redcurrant jelly and vinegar are added to help thicken and enrich the sauce. Alternatively, add 2 chopped Roma tomatoes and 2 peeled garlic cloves before the stock and wine begin to reduce. When the sauce is being passed through the fine sieve, press the vegetables through to make a paste which will help thicken the sauce.
* Easy red wine sauce— this 
sauce, also known as ‘beurre rouge’, or red wine butter sauce, is a simple recipe to serve with just-cooked steaks. Remove the steaks from the pan and set aside to rest in a warm area. Add  200 ml red wine and 100 ml port to the pan and reduce the alcohol by half over medium heat. Remove from the heat and add 100 g diced butter— do not put the pan 
back on the heat, simply swirl the pan to melt the butter. Finish this sauce with some sea salt flakes and freshly ground black pepper before serving over the steaks.
* For an easier sauce—
without wine— for steaks, 
remove and rest the steak, add 1 cup water to the pan and bring to the boil to lift the cooked-on juices on the base of the pan. When the water starts to evaporate, add some salt and pepper, a splash of balsamic or red wine vinegar and a good slug of olive oil while swirling the pan. Remove from the heat and serve.500 ml veal or beef stock
300 ml red wine1 bay leaf6 black peppercorns1 sprig thyme1 tablespoon redcurrant 
jelly
1 tablespoon red wine 
vinegar
sea saltMethod:
1. Place the stock, wine, bay leaf, peppercorns and 
thyme in a saucepan or in the roasting pan (from which the roast has been removed to rest on a tray, see roast beef or roast lamb recipe).
2. Place over medium–high heat and reduce the liquid 
by two-thirds.
3. add the redcurrant jelly and vinegar and salt to 
taste. Bring back to the boil, strain through a fine sieve and keep warm, ready to serve.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 2361 kg plums, halved
1 teaspoon five-spice powder1 teaspoon ground ginger1 teaspoon cayenne pepper (optional)2 cups brown sugar3 cups white wine vinegar2 teaspoons sea salt
Method:
1. remove the stones from the plums, then using a meat 
mallet, crack half the stones and tie them in a piece of muslin.
2. Place the plums, muslin bag of cracked plum stones, 
spices, sugar, vinegar and salt in a large stainless steel pot and bring to the boil, stirring until the sugar has dissolved. cook steadily for  30 minutes or until the plums are very soft. remove the muslin bag and discard.
3. cool the sauce slightly and blitz in a food 
processor or blender then return to the cleaned pan. Bring back to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for a few minutes or until the sauce is as thick as you would like it. (remember that the sauce will thicken further when it is cold and it should be of a pouring consistency.) Pour into hot, sterilised bottles or jars, seal, label and date. leave for at least 1 week before using. This sauce will last up to 12 months in a cool dry pantry. refrigerate once opened.Plum sauce
Makes about 1½  litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxDressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
237* You will need— cutting 
board, paring knife, meat 
mallet, muslin, bowl, cup and spoon measures, large stainless steel pot, wooden spoon, food processor or blender, and jars for storage.
* This sauce is really 
a preserve, for more information on preserves refer to Basic preserving.
* Any fruit sauce or 
preserve should be made with a premium product. Avoid using fruits that are over-ripe, diseased, damaged or bruised.
* Plum stones are high in 
pectin, which helps set the sauce slightly. Adding the plums stones can, of course, be left out. But it is a good tip when preserving plums.
* Whole spices can be used 
in this recipe, in which case they, too, need to be tied into a muslin bag and added at the beginning. Remove the spice bag before making a puree. For the above recipe, try adding 10 black peppercorns, 5 whole cloves and 5 whole allspice.
* Plum sauce with roast 
pork is a staple in Chinese restaurants, and is also used as a dipping sauce for spring rolls, egg rolls, chicken wings and steamed dumplings. It goes with pork spare ribs (instead of sweet and sour sauce), Peking duck (instead of hoisin sauce), roast turkey, or grilled chicken or pork.
* Like most recipes, feel 
free to play around with the quantities of vinegar and sugar to adjust the flavour to your liking, whether that be more sweet or sour. The amount of spice can also be adjusted according to individual taste.
* A very easy version of 
this recipe is to use— 1 cup 
plum jam, 2 tablespoons red wine vinegar, 2 tablespoons hoisin sauce, 1 teaspoon ground ginger, 1 teaspoon dry mustard, 
½ teaspoon 
cayenne pepper. Place all the ingredients in a saucepan, bring to the boil and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and store, refrigerated, for up to  2 weeks.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 238Satay Sauce
Makes about 1 litre
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 brown onion, chopped
1 lemon grass stalk, bottom quarter only, chopped1 teaspoon shrimp paste (optional)1 teaspoon chilli powder4 garlic cloves, sliced1 teaspoon ground cumin1 teaspoon ground coriander2 cups coconut milk2 tablespoons peanut oil300 g peanuts, unsalted and crushed4 tablespoons sugar2 tablespoons tamarind paste4 tablespoons soy sauce
Method:
1. Place the onion in a food processor. finely chop 
the lemon grass and add to the onion along with the shrimp paste, chilli powder, garlic and spices. add enough coconut milk (about 2 tablespoons) to moisten the mixture and blitz to produce a paste.
2. heat the oil in a wok or heavy-based saucepan over 
medium heat and gently fry the paste until it turns a pale, pinky brown colour, then reduce the heat to low. if the paste begins to brown too quickly, remove the pan from the heat, reduce the heat and continue cooking.
3. add the remaining coconut milk and the peanuts and 
stir to separate the nuts. simmer until the sauce thickens. stir in the sugar, tamarind paste and soy sauce.
4. remove from the heat and serve. keeps refrigerated 
for 2 weeks.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
239* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, food 
processor (or a mortar and pestle), wok or heavy-based saucepan, wooden spoon, and weight, cup and spoon measures.
* This is probably one of 
the more extensive satay sauce recipes based on my time in Thai restaurants. Do not despair if some of these ingredients are not available or if it just seems too much to handle— read on for a very 
simple alternative.
* A very simple satay 
sauce—1 cup crunchy peanut 
butter, 2 cups coconut milk and 2 tablespoons hot chilli sauce. Place the peanut butter in a saucepan over medium heat, and stir with a wooden spoon until it begins to melt. Gradually add the coconut milk, and stir until it is thoroughly combined. Cook until sauce consistency then stir in the chilli sauce. Too easy!
* Shrimp paste is written 
as optional for two reasons. First, it stinks really, really badly and is enough to put people off the idea of cooking this recipe (but it does add a great flavour); and secondly, it is the only meat product in the recipe, so for vegetarians or vegans, simply leave it out.
* A tip on storing shrimp 
paste—keep it in the packet 
it came in, place that in a clip lock bag, place the bag in an airtight container, then store until next time—this helps to stop the smell escaping.
* The 1 teaspoon chilli 
powder can be replaced with  3 teaspoons chilli flakes.
* Satay sauce goes with 
skewered meats like chicken, beef and fish. It’s great for a dipping sauce for spring rolls and samosas, and fantastic with vegetables and noodle stir-fry.
* Normally for this recipe I 
use 8 shallots (eschalots). Shallots are milder in flavour but quite fiddly to peel which is why I suggest using  1 onion.
* Tamarind paste is readily 
available in supermarkets and Asian grocers and is a very sour brown paste often used to balance the hot, sweet, sour and salty flavours in Asian food.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 240Shallot dreSSing
Makes about 1 litre
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g peeled shallots 
(eschalots)
100 ml sherry vinegar
750 ml olive oil1 tablespoon very finely 
chopped curly parsley
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
and spoon measures, food processor and jar for storage.
* Salt has deliberately been 
omitted from this recipe—adding salt will cause the dressing to separate.
* The addition of ¼ teaspoon 
freshly ground black pepper is recommended.
* The recipe yield may 
seem too much; however, refrigerated this dressing will last for at least  1 month. Or, halve the recipe for a more useable quantity.* Shallots are a small, 
brown-skinned type of onion with a milder flavour and pungency than regular onions (the use of purple shallots is fine). If shallots are unavailable, replace with a small onion of any colour (white, brown or red).
* Adding the oil very slowly 
will produce a homogenous dressing, but do not panic if it splits. Simply add the rest of the oil, pour into a large bottle with a lid so that every time you go to use the dressing, you can shake it up to mix the ingredients before pouring over the salad.
* Sherry vinegar adds a 
very specific flavour to the dressing; red wine vinegar, white wine vinegar or balsamic vinegar can be used instead. Plain white vinegar is acceptable but will produce a very bland-tasting dressing.
* For extra dimension to 
this dressing, try adding 1 tablespoon Dijon mustard to the shallots and vinegar before blitzing— the mustard 
will also help prevent the dressing from separating.
* Like all dressings made 
with vinegar and lemon juice, remember to add the dressing to the salad just before serving to prevent the lettuce from wilting.
* Try adding a few 
tablespoons of this dressing to freshly steamed green beans.Method:
1. roughly chop the shallots and place in a food 
processor. (see hints and tips for method without a food processor.)
2. add the sherry vinegar and blitz.3. Very slowly add the oil so the dressing doesn’t 
separate.
4. once all the oil is added, stir in the parsley and 
transfer to a bottle or jar and refrigerate until required.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 241-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Sweet and Sour Sauce
Makes about 500 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
and spoon measures, wok or saucepan, large spoon.
* Serve sweet and sour sauce 
with pork, steamed or grilled fish, chicken or seafood.
* Leftover sauce can be used 
as a dipping sauce for fish fingers.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers. Supermarkets will stock about 90 per cent of these ingredients.125 ml white vinegar
100 g white sugar125 ml tomato ketchup50 ml soy sauce2 slices canned pineapple, 
diced
pinch of ground ginger1 tablespoon cornflourMethod:
1. Place the vinegar, sugar, tomato sauce and soy 
sauce together in a wok or saucepan. Bring to the boil and simmer for 1 minute, stirring constantly. add the pineapple and ginger. combine the cornflour and a small amount of water and mix to form a paste. stir into the sauce and cook until thick—if too thick add a little more water.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 242-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Teriyaki sauce
Makes about 350 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. Place all of the ingredients in a saucepan, bring 
just to the boil, then reduce heat to medium and cook until the sugar has dissolved and the sauce has reduced by half (about 350 ml). Pour into a container with a lid and refrigerate until required.200 ml dark soy sauce or 
tamari
200 ml sake300 ml mirin3 tablespoons white sugar
 
* You will need— liquid and 
spoon measures, saucepan, 
large spoon.
* This sauce is reduced to 
produce a thick stir-fry sauce for Japanese dishes.
* As a marinade for meats, 
do not reduce the quantities given, just mix in a bowl and pour over the meat to be marinated.
* Sake is a rice wine, used 
in cooking (the cheaper styles) and for celebrating (the expensive styles). There are many varieties of sake and it is incorrect to think that they are all the same. I treat sake like wine; if I’m not prepared to drink it, I won’t cook with it.
* Mirin is a sweet rice wine 
and can be substituted with 1 cup of white sugar if it is unavailable.* Dark soy sauce is readily 
available, as is tamari which is a gluten-free style of soy sauce.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.
* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers. Supermarkets will stock about 90 per cent of these ingredients.Dressings, sauces anD Butters 243-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— liquid and 
weight measures, bowl, whisk 
or spoon.
* This sauce suits chicken, 
vegetable, tofu and tempeh stir-fries.
* Yellow bean paste is 
found in Asian grocers. It is usually sold in 600 ml bottles, and is a very thick yellow/brown sauce.
* Chilli in soy bean oil is 
rarely seen in supermarkets and can be replaced with chilli paste or sambal oelek.
* Tamarind juice is a very 
thick muddy brown pulp. This is readily available in supermarkets and Asian grocers. I prefer to make my own tamarind juice as I find the prepared juice a bit too thick. To make tamarind juice—use a 450 g block 
tamarind paste (check the ingredients on the back and find a brand with NO added salt), place in a large jug or container with 600 ml hot water. Let stand for 1– 2 
hours. Squish the paste with your hand or a potato masher to separate the pulp from the seeds and fibres. Pass this mixture through a sieve to leave a smooth juice, then discard the seeds. This mixture yields about 600 ml tamarind juice and keeps for several months, refrigerated.
* Granulated palm sugar 
is available at most Asian grocers and is preferred over caster sugar or soft brown sugar.
* Allow about 100 ml sauce 
per serve.
* Due to the nature of the 
individual ingredients, the fridge life of this sauce is quite high. This is mainly because of the high preservative qualities of salt and sugar. Expect a fridge life of up to  3 months. Alternatively, simply make smaller amounts that can be consumed sooner.
* All of the ingredients are 
readily available at Asian grocers.Thai chilli Sauce
Makes about 750 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 ml yellow bean paste
75 ml fish sauce125 g caster sugar or 
granulated dark palm sugar
150 ml oyster sauce150 g chilli in soybean 
oil
100 ml tamarind juiceMethod:
1. Place all of the ingredients in a bowl and stir 
with a whisk or spoon until thoroughly combined. Pour into a container with a lid and refrigerate until required.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 244White sauce
Makes approximately 1¼  litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
80 g butter
80 g plain flour1 litre milksalt and pepper
Method:
1. Melt the butter in a saucepan over medium–low heat. 
add the flour and stir continually with a wooden spoon until the ‘roux’ reaches a sandy colour and texture; about 3–5 minutes.
2. remove from the heat, add all the milk and use a 
whisk to combine the sauce. return to medium heat and stir with the whisk until the sauce begins to thicken. Gently boil for 2 minutes, being careful not to let it burn.
3. remove from the heat and season with salt and 
pepper.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
245* You will need— stainless 
steel saucepan, weight, cup 
and liquid measures, wooden spoon, and whisk.
* For a béchamel sauce— take 
a small onion and stud with 10 whole cloves and  1 bay leaf, add to the milk and bring to the boil. Remove from the heat and allow to infuse for 10 minutes before discarding the onion and spice. The milk is now ready to use in the recipe. If using béchamel sauce for lasagne, add an extra 150 ml milk to the recipe to thin it down and remember to keep the sauce hot so it is easy to pour.
* For a mornay sauce—add 
200 g grated gruyère or tasty cheese once the sauce is removed from the heat. Only season with salt and pepper after the cheese has melted as the cheese may be salty enough. If using mornay sauce for seafood crepes, then try replacing the milk with fish stock for greater flavour.
* For a white caper sauce—
add 2 tablespoons rinsed  and chopped capers and  2 tablespoons chopped parsley.
* Other variations include 
adding 2 tablespoons curry paste to the cooked ‘roux’ before adding the milk. Or add 2 tablespoons of your favourite mustard once the sauce is finished and before it is cool.
* Also try 1 cup chopped 
and cooked mushrooms or caramelised onions, added once the sauce is finished and removed from the heat.
* Adding the milk to 
the roux bit by bit is a method that is outdated and considered time-consuming by professionals who favour the above method. Using a whisk should only be done when making the sauce in a stainless steel pot because an aluminium pot can tend to make the sauce grey from the reaction of the different metals. Also, a whisk may scratch non-stick coatings.
* A whisk is used to avoid 
lumps and guarantees a smooth sauce every time.
* For a thicker sauce, add 
an extra 20 g flour and 20 g butter to the basic recipe and continue as per the method.
* Leftover white sauce can 
be used to make a toasted French sandwich called ‘Croque Monsieur’. Spread 1 slice of bread with some Dijon mustard, place some ham and 1 tablespoon grated gruyère cheese on top and cover with another bread slice. Place on a baking tray and grill the sandwich under a hot grill on one side. Remove the sandwich from the grill, turn over and spread the un-grilled side with cold white sauce, sprinkle with more grated cheese, return to the grill and cook until golden and bubbling.
* Take the above idea, fry 
an egg, place on the grilled sandwich and you have what is now called a ‘Croque Madame’.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 246Vinaigrette
Makes about 400 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— bowl, thin 
whisk, spoon and liquid 
measures, and jar with a lid.
* There are many variations 
of vinaigrette (pronounced vin-aa-gret). Therefore I have provided several options.
* Things to remember— salt 
will not dissolve in oil, therefore it must be worked into the acid of the vinegar or lemon juice to break it down before adding the oil.
* Dijon mustard is rarely 
used in a vinaigrette and is added to a dressing to assist in holding it together (emulsify) as well as adding flavour. Do not panic if the dressing splits while it sits in the fridge. Simply shake or whisk well just before adding to the salad.
* A common rule of thumb 
for this dressing is 1 part vinegar to 3 parts oil. Some recipes may stray from this rule deliberately to offer a milder tasting dressing— to 
allow the good oil to shine, or depending on its use.
* Olive oil is only one 
option for a vinaigrette. Strong nut oils like walnut and hazelnut can be used either on their own (very strong) or in equal parts with a mild oil like peanut oil or grapeseed oil.
* In an Asian-inspired 
dressing, mix a few tablespoons of strongly flavoured sesame oil with a soft oil like peanut.* Try a combination of 
vinegars like 50 ml red wine vinegar and 50 ml sherry vinegar to 300 ml olive oil with salt and pepper to taste. No mustard is needed. Place in a sealed jar and store. Shake well before use.
* For a vinaigrette for  
1 serving, try 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar, pinch of salt, 3 tablespoons olive oil, whisk together and serve.60 ml white wine vinegar
30 ml lemon juice1 teaspoon Dijon mustardsea salt300 ml olive oilMethod:
1. combine the vinegar, lemon juice, mustard and salt 
in a bowl and whisk until the salt has dissolved.
2. Drizzle in the oil and whisk continuously until the 
dressing has emulsified.
3. Pour into a jar or bottle with a lid and 
refrigerate. shake well before using. Because of the oil and vinegar, this dressing will last for many weeks in the fridge and will probably be used well before it deteriorates.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Dressings, sauces anD Butters 247-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Yoghurt dressing
Makes about 2½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, bowl, 
whisk and cup and spoon measures.
* This creamy style of 
dressing goes well with potato salad, green bean salad, panzanella, and green salad. Or drizzle over steamed broccoli or leftover warmed roast lamb or use as a light marinade for chicken or pork.
* Like most dressings in 
this book, light olive oil is just one option; alternatives include vegetable oil, peanut oil, grapeseed oil or safflower oil.* Yoghurt can be replaced 
with sour cream or crème fraîche.
* Cayenne pepper is also 
optional, so simply omit if the little bite it offers is still too much.
* Chopped fresh herbs like 
mint, basil or flat-leaf parsley can be added; if so, use 2 tablespoons of any of these or a combination of all three for the above recipe.1 cup natural yoghurt
1 teaspoon crushed garlic
½ teaspoon cayenne pepper
juice of 1 lemon1 cup light olive oilsea salt and freshly 
ground black pepper
cold waterMethod:
1. Whisk together the yoghurt, garlic, cayenne pepper 
and lemon juice in a bowl.
2. slowly add the oil, whisking continuously. season 
with salt and pepper to taste and, depending on the thickness of the dressing, add a little cold water to thin slightly.
3. transfer to a jar with a screw-cap lid or a plastic 
container with an airtight lid, and refrigerate. this sauce will keep in the fridge for 5–7 days.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 248sweeT sauces
Apple sAuce
Makes about 1½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored and diced
1 tablespoon lemon juice1 cinnamon stick2 strips of lemon zest
Method:
1. Place all of the ingredients in a pot over low 
heat. cover and cook gently for 20–30 minutes or until completely broken down and soft, then remove from heat.
2. remove the cinnamon stick and lemon zest. Mash with 
a potato masher or puree in a food processor. it may be that the apples have broken down enough that just mixing with a wooden spoon is enough to make a puree. serve hot or chill for later use.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
249* You will need— cutting 
board, sharp knife, 
vegetable peeler, apple corer (optional), spoon measure, wooden spoon, potato masher or food processor and saucepan.
* Mixing the apple varieties 
can give an even better result as some apples are very sweet naturally. For this, a mixture of Jonathan, Rome, Gala, Red Delicious, Fuji and Pink Lady can  be used, with as many as  4 varieties per sauce batch. However, some just may love the sourness that comes with the classic Granny Smith. Best of all are apples purchased from a country farmers’ market.
* The sweetness of this 
sauce is very individual. The sweet tooth will add sugar while those preferring a more natural flavour will remain faithful to the recipe.
* Some recipes recommend 
adding a small amount of water to the apples when cooking. Adding water is  not necessary as apples are 70 per cent water— the 
secret is to cook the apples on low heat to slowly draw out the moisture and soften the apples. It is also vital to stir the apples often to ensure they cook and break down evenly.
* Leaving the skin on is a 
matter of taste; be aware, however, that as the apple flesh breaks down, the skin will not, therefore leaving chewy pieces throughout the sauce.
* To use a microwave with 
this sauce, place all the prepared ingredients in a microwave-proof bowl, cover with a lid but have the lid slightly open to allow steam to escape or cover with plastic wrap with a couple of holes in the top. Microwave on high for 10 minutes, being careful when removing the lid or wrap to avoid a steam burn, the nastiest of all burns.
* For a more exotic apple 
sauce, add to the above recipe 1 tablespoon apple brandy (Calvados) or cognac, 1 tablespoon butter,  1 tablespoon honey and  
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon.
* Adding a dry spice at 
the beginning creates a beautiful aroma and flavour. The addition of 1 cinnamon stick or 4 whole cloves to the basic recipe is a good start. Peppercorns (10), bay leaf (1), caraway seeds  (
½ teaspoon toasted) or 
juniper berries (4 crushed) are alternative flavour profiles.
* Often associated with 
roast pork or pork chops, apple sauce accompanies roast duck and goose equally as well. As a dessert, it can be served with ice-cream or yoghurt.
* Adding butter to the sauce 
at the beginning can add a rich texture to the finished sauce, but is completely optional, especially if cutting back on unnecessary fats.
* For a simple baby food 
option, add nothing to the saucepan other than diced apples, cook on low heat, stirring often until completely soft, then cool and store in the refrigerator until needed.
* For toddlers or young 
children, instead of making an apple puree, simply crush with a fork or potato masher and add some sultanas, currants or dried cranberries.
* Apple sauce freezes very 
well in airtight containers, for at least 6 months.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 250Butterscotch sauce
Makes about 600 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g unsalted butter
250 g dark brown sugar300 ml thickened cream
Method:
1. Place the butter and sugar in a saucepan over 
medium heat and stir until the butter melts and the sugar begins to dissolve.
2. remove from the heat and whisk in the cream. Place 
back on the heat and bring to the boil. strain through a sieve and use immediately, or cool and store in the refrigerator for up to 7 days. To reheat, simply place in a saucepan and bring back to the boil or place in a microwave-proof bowl for 1 minute.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
251* You will need— saucepan, 
weight and liquid measures, 
and wooden spoon.
* Salted butter can be used 
for this sauce and will, of course, give it a very mild, but not offensive, salty taste.
* Dark brown sugar is a 
soft brown sugar. The ‘dark’ refers to the molasses left in the sugar when being refined. The darker the sugar, the richer it is—also the better it is 
for you. Dark brown sugar is readily available at all supermarkets.
* An alternative to ‘dark 
brown sugar’ is ‘soft brown sugar’ or ‘brown sugar’, which is less dark due to extra refining at the mill.
* Thickened cream can be 
replaced with pouring cream or even double cream which would result in a very rich sauce. Thickened cream and pouring cream have fat contents at between 28 per cent and 35 per cent whilst double cream is more like 50–52 per cent.
* After sitting in the 
fridge for a day or two, the sauce may separate. At the bottom of the dish is a small amount of dark syrup, while the majority of the sauce is a thick, almost solid mass. Do not panic, as it is simply some of the sugars taking a breather from the sauce. Once heated, everything will be as it was.
* Butterscotch sauce goes 
with date pudding, ice-cream, pancakes, crepes and waffles.
* The fact that butterscotch 
sauce has the word ‘scotch’ in it makes you wonder if it really can be made with alcohol. Yes, it can. For an adult version of this sauce, try adding 2 tablespoons Scotch whisky.* For simple toffee sauce—
combine 100 g unsalted 
butter, 200 g soft brown sugar, 1 cup thickened cream, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract in a saucepan, stir over medium–high heat until the 
sauce comes to the boil, reduce heat and simmer for  5 minutes.
* For a pecan toffee 
sauce—add ½ cup chopped 
pecan nuts to the sauce once removed from the heat. This is a great accompaniment for sticky date pudding.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 252Caramel sauCe
Makes about 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 ml water
150 g granulated sugar300 ml thickened cream
Method:
1. Bring the water to the boil in a heavy-based 
saucepan over high heat, add the sugar and reduce the heat to medium. continue cooking the sugar until the caramel liquid becomes a deep amber colour.
2. remove the saucepan from the heat immediately and 
add the cream. return the saucepan to the heat and bring back to the boil, stirring with a whisk until the caramel is dissolved.
3. Pour into a container and cool. refrigerate until 
needed—the sauce can be served cold or reheated.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
253* You will need— saucepan, 
whisk, and weight and liquid 
measures.
* This is a true caramel 
sauce, often recipes for caramel sauce closely resemble or are identical to butterscotch sauce. They are quite different in the method and therefore deserve different names.
* When adding the cream to 
the caramel, it may bubble and splatter, so take care. To avoid this aggressive reaction, try heating the cream in the microwave and adding it warm or even hot.
* This is a great sauce to 
go with chocolate desserts, apple pie, hot puddings like sticky date pudding or over ice-cream. The sauce is traditionally always served chilled, but can be warmed through.
* For a smoother more refined 
caramel sauce, try adding  2 egg yolks. To do this, place 2 egg yolks in a separate bowl, whisk a little of the hot caramel sauce into the yolks and then pour the yolk mixture back into the sauce, mix thoroughly and set aside to cool. Do not put it back on the heat.* For caramel ice-cream— now 
that egg yolks are in the mixture (see previous tip) and because of the cream content, simply pour this mixture into an ice-cream machine and churn according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
* This method of making 
caramel sauce is known as a ‘wet caramel’ because water is added to give the cook a more controlled, even result. However, for the more experienced cooks, a ‘dry caramel’ can be made and takes a fraction of the time. To do this, omit the water completely and place the sugar in the pan over medium heat. The sugar will naturally begin to melt. At this point you need to keep watch, as hot spots can occur and parts of the sugar will begin to caramelise before most of it has melted properly. To avoid this from happening, swirl the sugar in the pan so it is constantly moving and melting evenly. Before you know it, the whole quantity has caramelised and is ready to mix with the cream.* Caramel sauce will keep 
in the fridge for 3– 5 
days, covered; and like butterscotch sauce, after sitting in the fridge for a few days, the sauce may separate: at the bottom of the dish is a small amount of dark syrup, while the majority of the sauce is a thick, almost solid mass. Do not panic, as it is simply some of the heavy sugars separating from the lighter fats of the cream. Reheat or pour into a bowl and whisk.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 254ChoColate sauCe
Makes about 3 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 g dark cooking chocolate, chopped
250 ml cold water50 g caster sugar1 teaspoon vanilla essence
½ cup pouring cream
50 g unsalted butter
Method:
1. Place about 10 cm of hot water in a small saucepan 
and bring to the boil.
2. combine the chocolate, water and sugar in a 
heatproof bowl and place over the boiling water. reduce the heat to low and simmer gently until the chocolate has melted, stirring the mixture occasionally.
3. When the chocolate mixture is smooth, remove from 
the heat and stir in the vanilla, cream and butter. either use immediately or cool and refrigerate, covered, for up to 2 weeks. once cold, the sauce will have set; to use, spoon out the required amount of sauce and heat gently either in a pan or in the microwave.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
255* You will need— saucepan, 
bowl, long-handled plastic 
scraper, and weight, cup, liquid and spoon measures.
* A chocolate sauce made 
in this fashion, albeit beautiful, can be time-consuming, so check the method for easy chocolate sauce below.
* Easy chocolate sauce— this 
is the easiest way to make a chocolate sauce. In a saucepan, bring 300 ml cream to the boil, remove from the heat and with a whisk or wooden spoon, stir in 150 g chopped dark cooking chocolate. Stir until all the chocolate is thoroughly combined then transfer to a bowl or jug, cover and refrigerate. This recipe for chocolate sauce is my personal favourite, because it is so easy.
* Chocolate sauce goes with 
ice-cream, pancakes, crepes, profiteroles, poached pears, in or on soufflé, on toasted brioche and banana cake.
* Adding alcohol to 
chocolate sauce is very naughty and I therefore thoroughly recommend doing it! Try adding 2 tablespoons of any of the following favourite— Creme de Cacao 
(chocolate liqueur), Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur), Grand Marnier, Triple Sec or Cointreau (orange liqueurs), Curacao (bitter orange liqueur), Kahlua or Tia Maria (coffee liqueurs), Baileys Irish Cream, or Chambord (raspberry liqueur).
* If all that is in the 
pantry is cocoa powder and it’s too late to buy the ingredients for the above recipe, try this as an alternative— place 125 g 
caster sugar in a heavy-based saucepan, add 125 ml water and stir over gentle heat until the sugar is dissolved. Bring to the boil and boil for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat, add 50 g sifted cocoa powder and whisk until smooth. Bring back to the boil then remove from the heat. Cool slightly and serve, or store refrigerated. This sauce will lack the finesse of the basic recipe but will do the job until the shops open.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 256RaspbeRRy sauce
Makes about 1½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
225 g (1 punnet) fresh raspberries
100 g pure icing sugarlemon juice, to taste
Method:
1. Place the raspberries in a bowl and coat with the 
icing sugar, cover with plastic wrap and stand at room temperature for 1 hour to allow the sugar to begin drawing out the juices from the raspberries.
2. Place the mixture in a food processor and puree 
briefly. Pour into a sieve to remove the seeds. Taste the sauce and add a squeeze of lemon juice to round out the flavour. Place the sauce in a container and refrigerate until required for up to 5 days.Dressings, sauces anD Butters-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
257* You will need— bowl, 
spoon, weight measure, food 
processor, plastic spatula, and sieve.
* Fresh raspberries are not 
available all year round and for this particular sauce, frozen raspberries are a perfect substitute. Defrost the raspberries before adding the sugar and follow the method provided.
* Leaving the raspberries 
and sugar to sit to draw out the juices is not vital, and if you are in a hurry, simply skip this step and proceed to the puree stage.
* Lemon juice is added in 
some cases as it lends a different sourness to that of the raspberries. For example, if the berries are plump and very sweet, the sauce may lack the characteristic sourness needed to match the dessert it is served with.
* An adult version can be 
made by adding a liqueur that marries well with raspberries. To the above recipe, add 2 tablespoons of one of the following—Chambord (raspberry liqueur), Hideous (berry and citrus liqueur), Grand Marnier or Cointreau (orange liqueur).* Caster sugar or even 
soft brown sugar can be substituted for icing sugar.
* For a mixed berry sauce, 
use a combination of several different berries to equal the total quantity in the recipe. Blackberries, mulberries, boysenberries, loganberries and youngberries are some varieties that can be used. Blueberries and strawberries could also work with less success.
* Any leftover sauce can be 
frozen for up to 6 months. After that the ice crystals that form in the sauce will get too large and the sauce will become watery and lack flavour when defrosted.
* Raspberry sauce goes with 
many, many desserts— for 
example, over and under ice-cream, used in ice-cream, on pancakes (with ice-cream) and with meringues (and ice-cream).
* If you own an ice-cream 
machine, pour the sauce into the machine with  1 teaspoon lightly beaten egg white (used as a stabiliser) and follow the manufacturer’s instructions to produce a quick raspberry sorbet.* Leftover raspberry sauce 
can be used in conjunction with whole fresh raspberries to make raspberry fool.------------------------------------
11.  Desserts xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 260Apple And rhubArb crumble
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g rhubarb
500 g cooking apples, Granny smith or  
Golden Delicious
180 g caster sugar40 g unsalted butter1 cinnamon stickjuice of 
½ lemon
Crumble125 g unsalted butter125 g caster sugar250 g plain flour
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c.2. Trim the rhubarb and cut into 2-cm pieces. Peel the 
apples, remove the core and dice to roughly the same size as the rhubarb.
3. Place the sugar, butter, cinnamon and lemon juice 
in a stainless steel pan and cook over medium heat until lightly caramelised. add the rhubarb and cook for 5 minutes, then add the apple and cook for another 5 minutes. remove from the heat and allow to cool.
4. for the crumble—place all of the ingredients in a 
bowl and mix well using your hands. keep mixing and rubbing to form coarse crumbs.
5. To assemble—place the apple and rhubarb mixture in 
a baking dish or individual ramekins filling to three-quarters full. Top with the crumble mixture and then bake in the oven until the crumble is crisp and pale brown, about 30 minutes. serve immediately with cream, yoghurt or ice-cream.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
261* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler, weight measure, bowl, saucepan, baking dish or  6 ramekins and wooden spoon.
* A friendly reminder: never 
eat the leaves from rhubarb as they contain the poison oxalic acid. Although only 0.5 per cent of the leaf is oxalic acid, it wouldn’t take much to make a person sick.
* The leaves aren’t entirely 
useless, however. Boil 5– 6 
leaves with 1 litre of water for 30 minutes, strain and mix with 
½ teaspoon liquid 
soap (not detergent), then use in a spray bottle to kill or deter aphids from plants, keeping in mind that it is still a poison and should not be used on edible plants.
* Oxalic acid is also 
present in the stem but exists in far less and very edible quantities— it’s what 
gives rhubarb that pucker-the-lips effect.
* Remember to wash the 
rhubarb stalks thoroughly before cooking.
* Try replacing the plain 
flour with wholemeal flour for a healthier alternative.* The plain flour can also  
be halved and replaced with 125 g almond meal.
* For a gluten-free recipe, 
the plain flour can be replaced with 250 g almond meal. For nut allergies, try replacing the almond meal with 125 g buckwheat flour mixed with 125 g rice flour or 125 g potato flour.
* Another alternative for 
the crumble topping is to mix 2 cups rolled oats or even raw muesli with the specified quantities of sugar and butter (melt the butter for this version of crumble). If this crumble topping is a bit dry, try adding more melted butter.
* Other cooking apples 
include the Bramley, Grenadier and Jonathan.
* Some apples, when cooked, 
turn to mush while others tend to hold their shape quite well. Those that break down include the Bramley, McIntosh and Melba. The firmer holding varieties include Granny Smith, Golden Delicious, Winesap and Baldwin.
* If you are making a large 
batch and are concerned the apples will discolour after peeling and dicing, then squeeze the juice from a lemon in a bowl and toss in the apple pieces. Often it is recommended to drop the apples in acidulated water, which is a bowl of water with lemon juice squeezed into it. The problem with this method is that the apples absorb too much water by the time they are ready to cook, therefore making the cooked mass too watery.
* Leftover crumble is great 
the next morning for a breakfast treat served with yoghurt.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 262Apple pie
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 x recipe quantities sweet shortcrust pastry
200 g unsalted butter3 kg Golden Delicious apples, peeled, quartered,  
cored and chopped
450 g soft brown sugar150 ml water1 teaspoon ground cinnamon1 tablespoon vanilla extract1 tablespoon cornflour mixed with 1 tablespoon  
cold water
50 g dried bread crumbs1 egg yolk
Method:
1. roll out 1 batch of the pastry about 3–5 mm thick 
and drape over a pie dish. Gently press the pastry into the base and place in the refrigerator to set.
2. Preheat the oven to 180ºc.3. Melt the butter over medium heat in a large pot. 
add the apples and stir. add the sugar, water, cinnamon and vanilla and cook, uncovered, for  5 minutes. stir in the cornflour mixture and cook  until thickened. Pour onto a baking tray and leave  to cool to room temperature.
4. Blind bake the pastry base (see Pastry in really 
useful information). cool slightly, sprinkle with the bread crumbs and pour the cooled apple filling onto the pastry. it may appear as if there is too much but it is meant to be overfull.
5. roll out the second batch of pastry and drape over 
the pie filling. Brush with the egg yolk and bake for 20 minutes or until the top is golden and crispy.
6. serve hot from the oven or allow to cool and serve 
at room temperature.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
263* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, spoon, liquid and weight measures, 23-cm (9-inch) American-style ceramic or Pyrex pie dish, pastry brush, rolling pin, wooden spoon, baking tray, and large saucepan.
* Add nuts to the pie 
filling. Roast 250 g walnuts or pecan nuts, chop roughly then mix into the apple mixture.
* The bread crumbs in the 
base of the apple pie soak up excess moisture so the base stays crispy and light.
* Adding raw apples to 
the pie filling is fine, but remember to overfill the pie dish as the apples will shrink as they cook.
* This pie can be made in 
a flan ring with a removable base.
* Serve with ice-cream, 
whipped cream, crème fraîche, yoghurt or sour cream.
* The trimmings from the 
pastry can be used to make small leaves to add to the top of the pie.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 264Apple strudel
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 large Granny s mith apples, peeled, cored and sliced
zest and juice of 1 lemon
100 g bread crumbs150 g caster sugar150 g unsalted butter, melted1 teaspoon ground cinnamon50 g sultanas6 sheets filo pastrypure icing sugar, for dusting
Method:
1. Toss the apple in the lemon juice.2. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
3. Mix the apples, lemon zest, bread crumbs, caster 
sugar, one-third of the melted butter, cinnamon and sultanas in a large bowl.
4. lay 1 sheet of filo pastry on the prepared baking 
tray and brush with a little of the remaining melted butter, lay another sheet on top and again brush with melted butter. continue until there are 4–5 layers of pastry. Do not brush the last sheet with butter.
5. Pour the apple filling onto the pastry, leaving a 
5-cm border all around. fold in the shorter sides and roll the log over so the seam side is facing down, brush with the remaining butter, and bake for 30 minutes or until golden.
6. remove from the oven and cool slightly before 
dusting heavily with icing sugar. cut serves on an angle and serve with whipped cream.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
265* You will need— large bowl, 
small bowl, vegetable peeler, 
apple corer, weight and spoon measures, pastry brush, and flat baking tray.
* Apple strudel originated 
in Austria where it is made with a special strudel dough. For a novice or even an intermediate cook, the notion of making the dough is daunting at the very least. The best and easiest alternative is to use paper-thin filo pastry, found in all supermarkets and delis.
* Puff pastry could be used 
instead of filo; however, because it is thicker, the underside tends to stay wet and therefore doughy and undercooked compared with  the top.
* If filo pastry was bought 
frozen, leave out to thoroughly defrost before using. Slightly frozen, too cold or stale filo pastry is difficult to work with and will often crack and break.
* When working with filo, 
always remember to work quickly and keep the pastry covered with a damp towel when not using as it dries out and becomes brittle. When storing leftover filo, roll up, place back in the bag it came in, plastic wrap the end tightly and place back in the outer box or bag it came in. Keep refrigerated.
* Individual strudels can 
be made by using 2 sheets of filo pastry, brushed with melted butter in between, then folded in half. Place 2 heaped tablespoons apple mixture in the centre of the pastry. Gather in the corners, holding them above the apple, then squeeze the pastry together just above the apple mixture to form a closed bag with a sprouting top of pastry. Brush with butter and bake for 15– 20 
minutes.
* Other dried fruits can 
be added to this mixture. Instead of sultanas, try currants, raisins, prunes, dates, golden sultanas, dried apricots or pears, or dried cranberries.
* A ¼ cup nuts can also 
be added, especially suited are walnuts or pecan nuts. Almonds and macadamia nuts also work. Remember to crush or break up the nuts before adding to the apple mixture.
* Using canned apples for 
this recipe is recommended when time is limited. Always check the label to make sure the can contains ‘sliced’ apples and not apple puree or diced (pie) apple. Omit the bread crumbs from the recipe if using canned apples. Reduce the cooking time to 15–20 minutes and increase 
the oven temperature to 210ºC—the apples are cooked 
and so the inside only needs to be heated through and the pastry cooked until golden.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 266Baked cheesecake
Serves 10–12 people
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 teaspoon butter, for greasing
Base
250 g plain sweet biscuits125 g unsalted butter, melted
Filling
500 g cream cheese, at room temperature2 eggs, at room temperature2 egg yolks, at room temperature200 ml thickened cream200 g pure icing sugarfinely grated zest of 1 lemonjuice of 1 lemon
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 150ºc. Grease a 20-cm 
springform cake tin with 1 teaspoon butter.
2. for the base—place the biscuits in a food 
processor and blitz until finely crushed. add the melted butter and process until well combined. Transfer to the prepared cake tin and use the back of a spoon to spread evenly over the base and halfway up the sides of the tin. Place in the fridge until needed.
3. for the filling—place all of the ingredients in 
a bowl and mix with a wooden spoon until thoroughly combined. Do not beat heavily or use a whisk (see hints and tips). Pour onto the base.
4. Bake for 1 hour in the oven or until the centre 
of the cheesecake has just set. When given a gentle shake, the centre should wobble like jelly. at this point, turn off the oven and leave the door ajar to slowly cool down (see hints and tips). When mostly cool, remove the cheesecake from the oven and refrigerate. serve when cold.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
267* You will need— 20-cm 
springform cake tin, food 
processor, grater, bowl, wooden spoon, plastic spatula, and weight, liquid and spoon measures.
* This traditional baked 
cheesecake has many variations. It is the method, however, that seems to cause the greatest problems, especially the outcome—notably that the cheesecake is dry and/or it forms a crack in the middle.
* First—do not be tempted 
to over-beat or whip the mixture, this will create excessive air bubbles which will make the cheesecake rise and then collapse when cooled, leaving a depression in the surface. The method above suggests mixing all the ingredients together with a wooden spoon to form a smooth paste or custard. Having the cream cheese and eggs at room temperature will help to make this stage easier. Recipes that ask for egg whites to be beaten and folded into the mix are asking for trouble. As do recipes that request the beating of anything until light and fluffy. Light and fluffy are the enemies of a good baked cheesecake.* Second— do not overcook. 
A smooth baked cheesecake is basically a custard and only needs to cook until the eggs are just set, cooling slowly and refrigerating finish the setting process. Baking at too high a temperature will overcook the filling, resulting in a cheesecake that is dry and crumbly in texture and has shrunk around the edges.
* Third—the cracked surface 
of a cheesecake is the result of cooling too quickly. Therefore it is recommended that it begins cooling in the oven with the door ajar before being transferred to the fridge to set.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 268Baked quince
Makes about 1½ kg
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5 quinces
800 g sugar150 g unsalted butter, diced
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc. Wash or wipe the 
quinces, removing any down that may be on the surface.
2. cut the quinces into quarters and remove the core. 
Place the quince, unpeeled, in a baking tray cut side up.
3. sprinkle with the sugar and diced butter.4. add a little water to the tray, cover with foil 
and bake for 1
½ hours. Turn quinces and cook for a 
further 1 ½ hours.
5. once cooked, serve immediately or leave to cool and store in the refrigerator for several weeks.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
269* You will need— cutting 
board, sharp cook’s knife, 
paring knife, weight measure, and baking tray.
* Quinces, once in season, 
are delicious. When buying, look for quinces that are free from blemishes and have a pale yellow skin and a fragrance that resembles ‘boiled candies’.
* Quinces are a very hard 
fruit even when ready to cook, so feeling for ‘ripeness’ will prove futile.
* Cutting quinces must be 
done with great care, as they are so hard it is easy to slip with the knife. Once cut in half, place the cut surface on the cutting board and cut into quarters to avoid the fruit rolling when trying to cut.
* Quinces are not a fruit 
for eating out of hand. They need long slow cooking before using in pies, compotes, crumbles, frangipane, cakes or as a paste.
* The theory is that ‘the 
deep red colour of the baked quinces is the guide to doneness’. However, sometimes some of the quinces seem to remain very pale, even when thoroughly cooked and soft. This has to do with the ‘ripeness’ or ‘ready-ness’, which can be hard to tell until cooked. If the quinces are not completely yellow, store them at room temperature until they are fully ripened, yellow all over and emit a pleasant aroma, they will be no softer to handle. The cooked fruit still eat well if pale, but lack the depth of flavour of the riper, dark red cooked quince.
* Another method of cooking 
is to bake at 100ºC for  8 hours or even overnight. This long, slow process helps to guarantee the richness in colour that is desired in the fruit.
* Certain spices and peel 
can be added when baking quinces. Try 2 cinnamon sticks and the zest of  1 lemon, or add 6 whole cloves, 6 black peppercorns, zest of 1 orange and 2 bay leaves.
* Baked quince goes with 
creamy, natural yoghurt, custard, or whipped cream.
* Cook quince in the same 
manner but with half the sugar and 1 tablespoon juniper berries. The fruit will be ideal to use as an accompaniment to savoury meat dishes like duck, venison or rabbit.* For a small quantity, take 
1 quince, slice in half and remove the core. Place 1 half on a large piece of foil, cut side up, add 
½ cup sugar,  
1 teaspoon butter and a piece of lemon zest (optional), and enclose in the foil. Repeat with the other half. Place in an oven preheated to 180ºC for 1–2 hours until tender. 
Serve immediately or cool and refrigerate.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 270Baked ricotta cheesecake
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g ricotta
200 g almond meal50 g caster sugar100 g sultanas4 egg yolks1 teaspoon vanilla extractzest of 1 orangejuice of 1 orangepure icing sugar, for dusting
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 130ºc. Grease and line the base 
of a baking dish or a springform cake tin with baking paper.
2. Mix all the ingredients in a bowl and pour into the 
prepared dish.
3. Place in the oven and bake for 1 hour or until the 
centre is just set. remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack.
4. When cooled, dust with the icing sugar and serve.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
271* You will need— large 
bowl, wooden spoon, plastic 
spatula, very fine grater, weight, spoon and liquid measures, juicer, 22-cm springform cake tin and baking paper.
* This classic Italian 
dessert is perfect for the non-sweet tooth. Unlike other baked cheesecakes which are rich and creamy, ricotta cheesecake has a drier consistency and mouth feel, and can do with the company of either a sauce or some pouring cream.
* The ricotta in this 
recipe refers to the firm ricotta available from all delicatessens. Although the recipe will work with the tubs of soft ricotta, the cake tends to be a bit wet once cooled.
* This cheesecake is often 
made with plain flour but I have reworked the recipe to make it gluten-free. I also find the almond meal adds to the moistness of the cheesecake. If making it with plain flour, then use 100 g plain flour.
* A good sauce for this 
dish is a caramel orange sauce—place 100 g sugar in 
a saucepan with 1 tablespoon water and set over medium heat. When the sugar reaches a light caramel colour, add the zest of 1 orange and  100 ml orange juice (carefully), and stir with a whisk until the caramel dissolves in the juice. Mix together 1 tablespoon cornflour and 1 tablespoon cold water in a small bowl and slowly drizzle into the simmering sauce, stirring until thickened slightly. You may not need all of the cornflour. Remove the sauce from the heat, and cool slightly before stirring in 60 ml orange liqueur (Cointreau, Triple Sec or Grand Marnier). This sauce will keep for 4– 6 weeks 
refrigerated.
* Substitute the orange zest 
and juice in the basic recipe for lemon juice and zest.
* The recipe can be adjusted 
to accommodate the sweet tooth, simply add an extra 100 g caster sugar.
* Try adding a spice to the 
mixture— mix in 1 tablespoon 
ground cinnamon or grate fresh nutmeg over the cheesecake before it goes into the oven.
* Cool the cheesecake 
thoroughly in the tin. As it cools it will come away from the sides and won’t tend to split in the middle.* Try soaking the sultanas 
in 100 ml orange liqueur or brandy for 1 hour before adding to the mixture.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 272Banana split
Serves 1
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 ripe banana
100 ml thickened cream1 teaspoon pure icing sugar1–3 scoops vanilla ice-cream
100 ml chocolate sauce1 tablespoon crushed peanuts1 maraschino cherry with stem
Method:
1. Peel the banana and cut in 2 lengthways. Place in 
an elongated glass dish or a dessert bowl.
2. Whip the cream and sugar until firm peaks form.3. Place as many as 3 scoops of ice-cream in the 
centre of the banana halves. Dollop or pipe the whipped cream over the ice-cream. Drizzle with the chocolate sauce, sprinkle with the nuts and top with the cherry.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
273* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, banana 
split dish or dessert bowl, bowl and whisk or electric beaters and spoon and liquid measures.
* Banana split is an 
American invention and this recipe is about as traditional as it gets. From here on in, it is open slather as to what else goes in.
* Always use 1 ripe banana 
per serve.
* The ice-cream should 
be the best quality— and 
vanilla— is just the 
beginning. Strawberry, cookies and cream, chocolate and caramel swirl are also highly recommended.
* Making chocolate sauce 
could be seen as a time-wasting chore on a dessert that should be thrown together in seconds. The homemade sauce is amazing, but a fast alternative is a store-bought chocolate sauce that sets hard when it hits the cold ice-cream.
* While we’re discussing 
cheating, you may as well pick up some ‘dairy whip’, the whipped cream in a can. Basically half cream and half air with a dose of sugar, this is what some prescribe as the best cream for banana split.
* The peanuts can also be 
bought crushed and added straight from the packet.
* Maraschino cherries have 
a taste that some kiddies just won’t like; substitute for a glazed cherry or better still, fresh berries in season.
* Caramel sauce, strawberry 
sauce, raspberry sauce,  fresh 
passionfruit pulp or mango puree can all be substituted for chocolate sauce.
* Chop up your favourite 
chocolate bar and sprinkle over the ice-cream before adding the cream.
* Try toasted almond flakes 
or crushed macadamia nuts instead of peanuts. Or use smashed peanut brittle or sesame brittle instead of  the nuts.
* Grill the banana halves 
on a barbecue plate or in a sauté pan with 1 teaspoon butter before serving.
* Make a roasted banana 
split—place the banana  
in its skin in a preheated hot oven (220ºC) for  10–12 minutes (or on the barbecue, turning occasionally). Remove from the oven, carefully slice the skin open, place the banana on a plate (in the skin) exposing the soft cooked flesh, and top with ice-cream, cream, chocolate or caramel sauce, nuts and a cherry. Or use any of the other flavour ideas.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 274120 g butter
120 g caster sugar120 g golden syrup120 g plain flour1 teaspoon ground ginger1 teaspoon lemon juice
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. Place the butter, sugar and golden syrup in a 
saucepan and heat gently until the butter has melted and the sugar dissolved. remove from the heat and leave to cool slightly.
3. sift the flour and ginger directly into the mixture, 
add the lemon juice and stir well. refrigerate for at least 1 hour before using.
4. Place 1 tablespoon of the mixture on the prepared 
baking tray and spread out thinly. repeat until the tray is full. Do not place too closely together as they spread when baking.
5. Bake in the oven for 6–9 minutes. When dark caramel 
in colour and bubbling, remove from the oven and allow to cool for 30 seconds before handling, then, while still warm, remove from the baking paper with a flat knife or egg flip.
6. Drape over a rolling pin to obtain a nice curved 
shape or over a cup to form a bowl shape. allow to cool completely before removing from the mould. The brandy snaps can be used immediately with whipped cream or thick custard and fruit, or stored in an airtight container in the pantry for 1–2 days before they naturally begin to soften.Brandy snaps
Makes about 10–12xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxDesserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
275* You will need— saucepan, 
spoon and weight measures, 
sieve, wooden spoon, baking tray, baking paper and rolling pin or cup.
* The brandy snap mixture 
will last uncooked in the fridge for 2 weeks. Use cold from the fridge before baking for an easy dessert at any time.
* For maple snaps— simply 
replace the golden syrup with the same quantity of pure maple syrup.
* For raspberry snaps—
replace the golden syrup with raspberry sauce, and cook 
through, trying to retain some of the red colouring from the fruit while allowing it to set properly.
* If, after a couple of days 
in the pantry, the snaps begin to soften, place them back in a preheated 180ºC oven for 1 minute, then repeat the process of forming the desired shape. Cool and store again.
* For a cigar shape, wrap 
the warm biscuit around a wooden spoon handle, then cool completely before removing.
* Do not be tempted to make 
too many in one go. Make 2 or 3 at a time— this way you 
have time to mould and shape the warm biscuit. If you try to make too many, the biscuit may cool too quickly and set flat or break while you’re trying to shape it.
* If you try and mould the 
biscuit straight from the oven, it may be too hot and tear when placed over the rolling pin or inverted cup—be patient.
* If the biscuits are too 
pale when they come out of the oven, you will find they will not set properly and stay crispy. In this case, place them back in the oven for another 1– 2 minutes.
* An uncooked base version 
of this recipe can work just as well. Cream the butter (softened) and sugar until pale, stir in the golden syrup then sift in the flour and ginger, add the lemon juice, and the mixture is ready to use. To make this even easier, replace the caster sugar with pure icing sugar.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 276Bread and Butter pudding
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g sultanas
60 ml orange liqueur 
(cointreau or Grand Marnier)
600 ml full cream milk300 ml thickened cream1 teaspoon vanilla extract6 eggs150 g caster sugar16 slices white bread2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, softened
apricot jam
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 2 bowls, 
baking dish, weight, liquid and spoon measures and wooden spoon or whisk.
* Bread and butter pudding 
is a classic dish with many interpretations. It is important to know that it is a form of baked custard. Importantly don’t rush the cooking process. A slow oven for a longer cooking time is preferred over a higher temperature and shorter time which will curdle the custard and make it watery.* This recipe has many 
options, so let’s begin by suggesting the plain white bread can be replaced with croissants, ciabatta or bread sticks. The crust on these breads can be left on as they are not as chewy as commercial white bread (ciabatta can be tough though). Fruit bread or panettone can replace the bread and the soaked sultanas.
* Alcohol can be omitted 
all together. Alternatively, other liqueurs can be used depending on the flavour and fruit being matched.* Chocolate buttons can 
replace the sultanas, with a dash of Crème de Cacao (chocolate liqueur) mixed into the custard.
* A sprinkle of ground 
cinnamon or nutmeg over the top before baking adds a nice spice touch.
* For a dairy-free 
alternative, see bread and butter pudding with soy. For gluten-intolerance, replace with gluten-free bread; and if using soy milk, check there are no wheat products in the soy milk.Method:
1. soak the sultanas in the orange liqueur for  
2–3 hours. lightly grease a baking dish.
2. Preheat the oven to 150ºc.3. Bring the milk, cream and vanilla to a simmer over 
medium heat and remove from the heat.
4. in a large bowl, beat the eggs and sugar until 
pale. slowly add all the milk mixture and stir well.
5. Butter the bread and spread with the jam. remove 
the crusts and cut each jam sandwich on the diagonal.
6. layer the bread, sultanas and custard in the 
prepared baking dish. let stand for 1 hour.
7. Bake for 1–1
½ hours or until the custard has set.
8. The pudding can be served immediately. however, it 
is best left to stand for 15 minutes before serving.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Desserts 277Bread and Butter pudding with soy
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 eggs
1½ tablespoons honey
2½ cups vanilla-flavoured 
soy milk
1 tablespoon margarine2 tablespoons apricot jam8 slices light rye or 
multigrain bread, crusts removed
¾ cup sultanasMethod:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºC. Lightly grease a round 
ovenproof dish.
2. Place the eggs, honey and soy milk in a bowl.  
Whisk well.
3. spread the margarine and jam onto one side of each 
slice of bread and cut into triangles.
4. Place a layer of bread into the prepared dish and 
sprinkle with ½ cup sultanas. Gently pour half the 
custard mixture over the top.
5. Place the remaining bread into dish in a circular 
pattern, and add the remaining custard. sprinkle with the remaining sultanas.
6. Place the pudding into a large baking pan filled 
with enough water to come halfway up the sides of the ovenproof dish. Bake in the oven for 1 hour or until set and browned on top. the pudding can be served immediately. However, it is best left to stand for  15 minutes before serving.
7. For Hints and tips please see p. 276.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 278ChoColate mousse
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g good quality dark cooking chocolate
100 ml espresso coffee4 eggs, separatedpinch of salt100 g caster sugar250 ml thickened cream, lightly whipped and  
kept refrigerated
Method:
1. combine the chocolate and coffee in a heatproof 
bowl and place on a pot of just-boiled water that has been removed from the heat. The residual steam will gently melt the chocolate.
2. allow the chocolate mixture to cool slightly before 
whisking in the egg yolks.
3. in a separate bowl, beat the egg whites and salt 
until beginning to thicken. slowly add the sugar and continue to beat until stiff peaks form. Do not over-whip or the whites will be too dry and hard to mix into the chocolate.
4. stir the cream into the chocolate mixture until 
well combined.
5. fold one-third of the egg whites into the chocolate 
to lighten the mixture. Then gently fold in the remaining egg whites.
6. Divide the mixture between 4 ramekins, small bowls 
or glasses or place in a single bowl and refrigerate, covered, for at least 3 hours or overnight.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
279* You will need— 2 bowls, 
electric mixer, whisk, 
saucepan, plastic spatula, liquid and weight measures and ramekins, bowls or glasses for serving.
* Chocolate mousse can be 
one of the quickest and easiest of all the desserts to make. There are many recipes for mousse which can range from light and fluffy like this recipe, which is served in glasses or moulds, to firm and dense which can be piped or even sliced.
* Traditionally, cream is 
not used in recipes for chocolate mousse but it does add a smooth, velvety texture.
* Try replacing the coffee 
with 100 ml Cointreau or brandy, or to be child-friendly, use raspberry cordial or better still,  100 ml pureed fresh raspberries (see raspberry sauce).
* Try adding a ¼ cup 
chopped nuts like macadamias or pecan nuts.
* Chocolate mousse for 
piping— 3 egg yolks,  
3 eggs, 100 g caster sugar, 800 g dark couverture chocolate, 1 litre semi-whipped cream. Gently melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and set aside. Turn up the heat and place a heatproof bowl over the pan of boiling water. Make a sabayon by whisking the egg yolks, eggs and sugar until ribbon stage. Remove from the heat. Have someone hold the bowl, whisk in the chocolate and cream, adding a quarter of each at a time, making sure it’s well incorporated before adding more, otherwise the mixture will split. Refrigerate once all the ingredients are combined. Spoon or pipe this dense mousse as needed.
* Free-standing chocolate 
mousse— this mousse is based 
on gelatine and contains no raw egg whites, and can be set in a mould and turned out. It is still light but has the advantage of being served on a plate with different garnishes. You will need—250 g dark chocolate,  
2 eggs, 60 ml crème de cacao, 2 gelatine leaves, 600 ml thickened cream (semi-whipped). Melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and set aside. Soak the gelatine leaves in plenty  of cold water until soft. Whisk the eggs and liqueur  in a heatproof bowl over a saucepan of simmering water until ribbon stage. Squeeze excess water from the softened gelatine and stir into the egg mixture. Slowly beat the egg mixture into the chocolate until thoroughly combined. Cool to room temperature before stirring in the cream with a plastic spatula. Pour into individual moulds or serving glasses. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate. Serves 8– 10.
* The best chocolate to 
use is dark or bittersweet chocolate or couverture, available at good delicatessens, food halls and speciality ingredient shops. If the budget is tight, a good mousse can be achieved using dark cooking chocolate from the supermarket. Other types of chocolate can be adapted to this recipe, including milk and white chocolate; however, as the cocoa butter content in these chocolates is less, the melting of the chocolate needs to be done very, very gently to avoid the chocolate seizing (going grainy).The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 280ChoColate self-sauCing pudding
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g soft brown sugar
300 g self-raising flour4 tablespoons cocoa powder300 ml milk3 eggs100 g butter, melted
Sauce
350 g soft brown sugar4 tablespoons cocoa powder500 ml boiling water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Grease a deep  
baking dish.
2. Place the brown sugar in a bowl and sift the  
flour and cocoa powder over the sugar. Mix with a wooden spoon.
3. in a separate bowl, mix together the milk, eggs  
and butter.
4. Pour the milk mixture over the dry ingredients and 
stir with the wooden spoon to make a batter. Pour the batter into the prepared baking dish.
5. for the sauce—combine the sugar and cocoa powder 
in a jug, add the boiling water and stir until the sugar dissolves (see hints and tips). Then gently pour the sauce over the batter. it is best to pour the sauce over the back of a spoon to avoid disturbing the batter too much.
6. Place in the oven and bake for 45 minutes. When 
cooked, a skewer or small knife inserted into the pudding part only will come out clean. serve immediately with cream or ice-cream. if the pudding sits for too long, the sauce will get soaked up by the pudding.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
281* You will need— baking dish 
(about 20 cm diameter x  
10 cm deep, at least 1-litre capacity), 2 bowls, wooden spoon, whisk, jug for the sauce and liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* This classic recipe for 
self-saucing pudding is big on flavour. The strong taste of dark cocoa powder may be too strong for some palates. For a very mild-tasting pudding, substitute the cocoa powder (in the pudding and the sauce) for drinking chocolate and reduce the sugar content by half as there is sugar in the drinking chocolate.
* Some recipes for chocolate 
self-saucing pudding suggest that for the sauce, the sugar and cocoa are mixed together and sprinkled over the pudding batter then hot water is poured over this preparation. The most common problem with this method is sometimes the sugar and cocoa don’t mix properly with the boiling water and the result is an uncooked mass of sugar and cocoa in the centre of the pudding. To safely guarantee this won’t happen, follow the method I’ve prescribed.
* For a choc-chip effect in 
the sauce, add 100 g chopped dark chocolate or small chocolate buttons sprinkled over the batter, then pour the sauce over the pudding.
* Individual puddings can 
be produced by buttering individual (250-ml capacity) ovenproof moulds. The cooking time will be reduced to  20–25 minutes.
* Dust with icing sugar 
before serving at the table. This pudding can get quite messy looking, and the icing sugar will cover any ugly bits.
* Self-saucing pudding is 
notorious for bubbling over the edges of the dish— to 
avoid heavy cleaning of the oven racks and oven floor, try placing a piece of baking paper on a baking tray, then place the pudding on the lined tray before baking. Serve the pudding and throw out the paper.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 282Christmas pudding
Makes 4 x 1-litre puddings
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Dry ingredients
100 g dried mixed peel150 g glacé cherries150 g blanched almonds, chopped250 g plain flour250 g fresh bread crumbs300 g suet, grated300 g dark brown sugar400 g currants400 g sultanas500 g raisinsfinely grated zest of 1 orangefinely grated zest of 1 lemon1 carrot, peeled and grated1 Granny s mith apple, grated
½ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons mixed spice
Wet ingredients
8 eggs, lightly beaten350 ml stout or Guinness150 ml brandy
Method:
1. Mix all the dry ingredients and fruit in a large 
bowl. in a separate smaller bowl, mix the wet ingredients. combine the contents of both bowls, cover and store in the fridge for 24–48 hours.
2. Preheat the oven to 150ºc. stir the mixture and 
divide between 4 pudding bowls. Press the mixture firmly into the bowls, wipe the inner and outer rim with a damp cloth, then cover each pudding with a circle of baking paper. cover the bowls with a layer of foil and crimp the edges or use large elastic bands to hold the foil in place.Desserts 283 
* You will need— large 
mixing bowl, 4 x 1-litre 
ceramic pudding bowls, large baking tray (8– 10 cm deep), 
wooden spoon, weight, liquid and spoon measures, grater, vegetable peeler, baking paper and foil.
* This pudding can last 
a year or two if stored correctly (in the fridge) and if you show some self control (I meant well, but mine didn’t even see the end of January).
* The long marinating and 
cooking process is required to ensure richness in flavour and thorough cooking and amalgamation of the ingredients. To cook less results in a raw and somewhat greasy-tasting pudding. Be patient as you tend to only make it once a year.
* Serve with brandy custard 
or brandy butter sauce which is made by bringing to the boil 200 g caster sugar,  100 ml water and 50 g glucose. Cook until pale amber in colour, remove from the heat and carefully stir in 200 g unsalted butter and 500 ml thickened cream. Lastly, stir in 100 ml brandy, pass through a fine strainer and serve warm.* The cooked puddings can 
be sliced and heated in the microwave briefly before serving— for those who just 
cannot wait any longer.Method cont.
3. Line a large, deep baking tray with a cloth or tea 
towel, and place the puddings in the tray. Add enough boiling water to the tray to reach halfway up the sides of the bowls (to make a water bath). Place in the oven and bake for 6 hours; check the water level every 1–2 hours and top up with more boiling water to maintain a level halfway up the sides of the bowls. turn the oven off and allow to cool in the oven. remove the puddings from the baking tray and leave to cool to room temperature overnight. store in the fridge until needed.
4. to reheat, place back in a water bath in the oven 
set at 160ºC for 2 hours.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 284Crepes
Makes about 20
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 eggs
400 ml milk170 g plain flour50 g pure icing sugarpinch of saltolive oil spray or butter, for cooking
Method:
1. for the batter—whisk the eggs and milk in a bowl.2. sift the flour and salt into a separate bowl. Make a 
well in the centre, then add the egg mixture. using a whisk, start drawing in some of the flour, keeping the batter smooth. set aside for 1 hour to rest (see hints and tips).
3. To cook the crepes, spray a crepe pan or small 
nonstick frying pan with oil or add a small knob of butter. heat over medium–low heat. add just enough batter to leave a thin coating on the base of the pan, lifting and swirling the pan to ensure the batter is distributed evenly. cook on one side for 2–3 minutes or until it begins to colour. use an egg flip to turn and cook the other side for 1 minute, then transfer to a plate or a wire rack. repeat this process until all the crepe batter is used.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
285* You will need— 2 bowls, 
whisk, plastic spatula, 
liquid, weight and spoon measures, egg flip, and crepe pan or nonstick frying pan.
* First, the making of the 
batter and allowing it to rest are important as the gluten in the flour has been worked and is tight; cooking immediately would make rubbery crepes.
* Use a crepe pan that 
has been lightly greased. Nonstick crepe pans are available from kitchenware stores and are worthwhile if you plan on making crepes often.
* Crepes eaten immediately 
after cooking go well topped with freshly squeezed lemon and sugar or spread with  good jam.
* The crepe batter will last 
3 days refrigerated before it starts to turn grey.
* Crepes can be frozen for 
later use.
* This recipe is ideal for 
sweet and savoury crepes.
* Always check the 
consistency of the batter after the resting period to ensure it is not too thick. If it is, just add more milk.* If the crepes are to be 
used for crepes Suzette, try adding 1 teaspoon of orange blossom water, orange liqueur or an orange syrup (made by simmering equal parts sugar and orange juice with the zest of the oranges).
* Soufflé crepes baked in 
royale custard— first, make 
the crepes and set aside. For the custard— whisk together 
250 ml thickened cream,  125 ml cream, 2 eggs, 2 egg yolks, 40 g caster sugar and 10 ml dark rum in a bowl; then set aside. For the filling— whip 30 g unsalted 
butter (softened), 40 g pure icing sugar and 4 egg yolks; then beat in 400 g cream cheese (softened, at room temperature), 1 teaspoon vanilla extract, and grated zest of 1 lemon; stir in  
½ cup sultanas. In a 
separate bowl, whip 4 egg whites to soft peaks. Gradually beat in 100 g caster sugar. Fold the egg whites into the cheese mixture. To assemble— fold a 
crepe into quarters to form a pocket, half-fill the pocket with a couple of tablespoons of filling (do not be tempted to overfill). Place the filled crepes in a ceramic baking dish or lasagne dish. Pour the custard on top to come halfway up the sides of the crepes. Place in a preheated 160ºC oven and bake until  the custard sets, about  30 minutes. Dust with icing sugar and serve with whipped cream. This dish can be made individually using smaller, shallow gratin dishes. Try using mascarpone or quark cheese as an alternative to cream cheese. Sultanas are optional and can be substituted with chocolate buttons.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 286Junket
Serves 6–8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 litre full cream milk
100 g caster sugar1 teaspoon vanilla extract4 junket tablets1 tablespoon cold milk, extra
Method:
1. Place the litre of milk and the sugar in a saucepan 
and heat gently to body temperature (37ºc). remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.
2. crush the junket tablets and mix with the  
1 tablespoon cold milk. add some of the warm milk mixture then pour the junket mixture into the warm milk mixture. stir and place in a bowl or individual ramekins. leave at room temperature for 30 minutes or until set, then refrigerate.
3. Top with whipped cream just before serving.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
287* You will need— saucepan, 
wooden spoon, weight, liquid 
and spoon measures, small bowl and 6– 8 individual bowls 
or glasses.
* The availability of junket 
tablets or powder is said to be diminishing with the decreasing production of junket by some companies. Junket tablets should still be available at supermarkets, independent grocers and health food stores— keep 
hunting around, you will find them.
* Junket tablets can be 
bought already flavoured. Buying the plain tablets means adding your own flavour. Use 
½ vanilla bean in the 
milk and allow the flavour to infuse for 10 minutes after heating, then scrape out the seeds from the pod. This gives a beautiful vanilla junket.
* Junket powder is also 
available and for this recipe use 1 teaspoon mixed into the cold milk, then continue as per the recipe.
* Junket tablets or powder 
are made from rennet, which is made from an active enzyme known as rennin which comes from the fourth stomach of milk-fed calves. Rennet is used in cheese production as it coagulates the milk proteins to form the curds (the first stage of cheese making). Vegetarians should always check cheese products to see if they contain rennet; vegans don’t eat cheese anyway.
* For orange junket— add  
the zest of 1 orange and  
¼ teaspoon orange flower 
water to this recipe (omit the vanilla extract).
* For chocolate junket— add 
4 tablespoons powdered chocolate milk flavouring while the milk is heating. Stir until dissolved.
* For coffee junket— stir  
2 tablespoons instant coffee to the milk once heated.
* Full cream milk is 
specified because skim milk, UHT (long-life milk), soy milk, lactose-free milk and some powdered milks tend not to set.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 288Lemon deLicious
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Melted butter, for greasing
sugar, for coating baking dish60 g butter, softened225 g caster sugar4 eggs, at room temperature, separatedzest of 2 lemons150 ml lemon juice (about 3 lemons)35 g self-raising flour400 ml milkpinch of salt
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. Prepare a baking dish or 
individual ramekins by brushing with the melted butter and coating with the sugar.
2. combine the softened butter and sugar in a bowl 
and beat until pale. add the egg yolks one at a time, beating well between each addition.
3. add the lemon zest and mix in the lemon juice.4. stir in the flour and then the milk, a bit at a 
time, until well combined and the mixture is quite runny.
5. Whisk the egg whites with the salt until soft peaks 
form, then fold into the lemon mixture. spoon the pudding mixture into the prepared dish or dishes.
6. Place the pudding dishes in a deep roasting tray 
lined with a cloth or a tea towel, and add hot water to reach halfway up the sides of the dishes. Bake in the oven for 40 minutes for a large, single pudding, or 20–25 minutes for individual puddings. When risen and browned on top, remove and serve immediately with lashings of cream or ice-cream. remember when serving to scoop out the lemon sauce that has formed at the bottom of the dish.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
289* You will need— 750-ml 
capacity pudding dish or 
6 x 1-cup capacity soufflé dishes or ramekins, 2 bowls, grater, juicer, liquid, spoon and weight measures, wooden spoon, whisk or electric beaters, plastic spatula and deep roasting tray.
* Lemon delicious— also 
known as ‘lemon delight’— is 
a classic, tangy self-saucing pudding and like all self-saucing puddings needs to be served immediately or risk the pudding soaking up the sauce if left to sit for too long.
* Brushing the baking dish 
with softened butter and coating with sugar helps the pudding to rise. Equally effective is to lightly spray the dish with canola or light olive oil before dusting in the sugar.
* Having the ingredients 
at room temperature helps prevent the mixture from splitting. Usually, a base cake mix splits or separates because the eggs are too cold for the room temperature sugar and butter mixture. However, should this happen, keep making the pudding, as it won’t totally ruin the final product.* The egg whites are beaten 
to a soft peak and then folded in briefly. If the egg whites are beaten to stiff peaks, they become dry and harder to fold into the batter and because air has been knocked out from the egg whites, the pudding is heavier once baked. It is also recommended when folding in egg whites (especially in the case of soufflés) that you add a quarter of the egg whites and work that faster and harder before gently folding in the remaining three-quarters of the egg whites, which will then be incorporated into the mixture much more easily.
* It is also vital that the 
pudding is baked in a ‘water bath’ with a cloth or tea towel underneath the pudding dish (to absorb excess heat from the metal roasting tray); the water bath also allows the sauce to properly form at the base of the pudding.
* Dust the pudding/s with 
icing sugar before serving.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 290Lemon meringue pie
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Pastry
200 g plain flour50 g caster sugar150 g cold unsalted butter, cut into small dice1 egg
Filling
180 g caster sugar180 ml lemon juice (3– 4 lemons)
250 ml water60 g cornflour75 g unsalted butter, cut into small dice4 egg yolksMeringue4 egg whites200 g caster sugar
Method:
1. for the pastry—place the flour, sugar and butter in 
a food processor, and blitz until sandy in texture. add the egg and continue processing to form a paste. 
remove the dough from the processor and work with your hands to form a smooth, homogenous ball, then wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.
2. on a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough to 
5 mm thick, then drape over a shallow pie dish. Do not trim excess pastry at this stage, place back in the fridge for 30 minutes (or the pastry will shrink in the oven).
3. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line the pastry case 
with a round piece of baking paper, half fill with dried beans, rice or pastry weights and bake for  
12 minutes. remove from the oven, remove the paper and weights. Place the pastry case back in the oven for 10–15 minutes or until lightly golden. remove and set aside. When cool, trim the overhanging pastry with a cook’s knife by shaving the cooked pastry in a slightly downward motion away from your body.Desserts 291 
* You will need— weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, 
bowls, food processor, electric mixer, rolling pin, 23-cm flan tin or pie dish, saucepan, wooden spoon, plastic spatula, cook’s knife and cutting board.
* The warmer the lemon 
custard is when the meringue is added, the less likely the meringue will slide off the pie when cooled. Therefore, as soon as the custard is made, make the meringue and get the pie into the oven as soon as possible.* For reasons why the 
meringue might weep, see Italian meringue.
* To save some time, buy a 
pre-made flan case, available from most supermarkets.
* If you are not used 
to adding the egg whites and sugar together at the beginning of beating, then stick to the traditional method of whipping the egg whites to soft peaks and then gradually adding the sugar. The meringue will be less dense but will still work. Either method is fine.* The grated zest of 1 lemon 
added to the pastry base gives a lovely hint of lemon flavour that ties in nicely with the rest of the pie.Method cont.
4. reset the oven to 200ºC.5. For the filling—place the sugar, lemon juice, 
water and cornflour in a saucepan over medium heat and bring to the boil, stirring continuously. reduce the heat and cook for another minute or until the mixture becomes thick and transparent. remove from the heat and beat in the butter and egg yolks with a wooden spoon. Pour the warm custard into the pie case.
6. For the meringue—place the egg whites and sugar 
in the bowl of an electric mixer, whisk until a stiff meringue forms. Dollop and spread on the warm lemon custard.
7. Bake for 8–10 minutes or until the meringue is 
lightly browned all over. Cool before placing in the refrigerator. Chill completely before slicing.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 292Lemon tart
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 x recipe quantity shortcrust pastry
zest of 2 lemons350 g caster sugar8 eggs, at room temperature250 ml lemon juice250 ml thickened cream
Method:
1. roll out the pastry and line a 23-cm flan tin. Place 
in the fridge for 30 minutes to rest. Preheat the oven to 200ºc.
2. Place the lemon zest, sugar and eggs in a bowl and 
whisk to combine.
3. stir in the lemon juice and fold in the cream.4. Blind bake (see Pastry in really useful 
information) the pastry case for 20 minutes. remove from the oven and while hot, add the lemon filling. reduce the oven temperature to 150ºc and bake the tart for 30 minutes or until the lemon custard is only just set. remove from the oven and cool completely before serving.
5. serve at room temperature or chilled with whipped, 
double or pouring cream.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
293* You will need— rolling 
pin, weight, spoon and liquid 
measures, 2 bowls, grater, juicer, whisk, wooden spoon, baking paper and 23-cm flan tin with a removable base.
* The most important thing 
to remember when making the filling for this tart is that it is simply a delicate custard. It therefore only needs to just set and will finish setting as it cools. When testing for doneness, give the oven shelf a gentle shake, the centre of the tart should wobble like a jelly.
* Adding the filling to the 
hot pastry base helps to get the cooking underway and forms a seal on the base to help prevent leakage.
* The cream suggested for 
this tart is thickened cream or you could use pouring cream with a 35 per cent fat content.
* When making the pastry, 
try adding the zest of  1 lemon to the pastry. It becomes noticeable when eating the tart and rounds out the overall experience of this delicate sweet.* To sweeten the pastry, 
add ¼ cup pure icing sugar 
to the dough as it is being made. Try also adding 
½ cup 
almond meal to the dough.
* Remember to read the Hints 
and tips for shortcrust pastry as well.
* It is important to rest 
the pastry once it has been rolled and shaped into the flan tin. The gluten in the flour has been worked from the rolling action and, if baked immediately, will shrink once exposed to the heat of the oven. It is a good idea to leave some overhang when lining the flan tin, which, when cooked can be trimmed off before adding the custard mixture.
* Substitute lemon juice 
with orange juice, blood orange juice or a mixture of citrus fruit juices.
* You can make a caramelised 
lemon tart by sprinkling the cooled tart with a thin layer of caster sugar and placing it under the grill set to high for 1 minute or until the sugar caramelises.* The pastry base can be 
made and cooked the day before it is needed, as too the lemon filling which will keep for up to 5 days refrigerated. Stir the lemon mixture before pouring into the cooked base.
* Overcooking the tart will 
cause the filling to curdle on the outer edge, making the lemon custard dry and grainy. An overcooked tart will also tend to split open once cold. It is best to keep the tart in the flan tin as long as possible, even if some slices have been taken from it; this will also help prevent the tart from splitting.
* Raspberry sauce is another 
great accompaniment for this tart.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 294Pannacotta
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 gelatine leaves
100 ml cold milk500 ml pouring cream100 g caster sugar1 vanilla bean, split lengthways, or 1
½ teaspoons 
vanilla extract
1 piece of lemon zest
Method:
1. soak the gelatine in the milk for 5 minutes or 
until the leaves soften.
2. combine the cream with the sugar, vanilla bean or 
vanilla extract and lemon zest in a saucepan.
3. Bring just to the boil, remove from the heat and 
stand for 5 minutes.
4. Pour the hot cream mixture into the gelatine and 
milk mixture and stir to dissolve the gelatine.
5. strain the mixture through a fine sieve and 
pour into 6 dariole moulds. cover and refrigerate overnight.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
295* You will need— 2 bowls, 
saucepan, liquid and weight 
measures, wooden spoon, plastic spatula and ceramic, plastic or metal dariole moulds.
* Pannacotta translates 
as ‘cooked cream’. It is delicious served with fresh berries or raspberry sauce. Or serve with biscotti or almond bread. Or try the pannacotta with fruits in season like peaches (grilled), cherries or mangoes.
* As a general rule of 
thumb, use 1 gelatine leaf for every 300– 350 ml liquid. 
You would be surprised at how much difference 50 ml of liquid can make. For the beginner, start with 300 ml (as per the recipe above); for the more advanced cook, add 50–75 ml double cream to 
the cooked mixture to produce a very delicate set cream.
* Pannacotta should have 
a just-set texture and is therefore delicate when turning out of the mould. To release, dip a small knife in hot water and insert between the very edge of the pannacotta and the dariole mould, remove (this will break the seal and make an air pocket), then invert the pannacotta over a plate and it should gently release itself. If not, then dip the ramekins into hot water for  5 seconds and try again.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
passionfruit pulp to the mixture just before the gelatine is added.
* Halve the sugar and add 
2 tablespoons honey to the mixture. Serve with crushed pistachio nuts.
* Although not very 
traditional, replace half the cream with natural yoghurt or buttermilk, but only heat the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the cream mixture then pour into the yoghurt or buttermilk.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 296Pavlova
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 egg whites
1½ cups caster sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract1 teaspoon white vinegar1 teaspoon cornflour2 tablespoons boiling water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. use an electric mixer to whisk the egg whites until 
soft peaks form. Gradually add the sugar and continue to beat on high until all the sugar is incorporated.
3. Turn the speed to low and add the vanilla, vinegar 
and cornflour.
4. slowly add the boiling water and whisk until 
completely combined.
5. spoon in 1 large mound on the prepared baking tray. 
Bake for 1 minute, reduce the heat to 100ºc and cook for a further 90 minutes.
6. Turn off the oven and leave the pavlova to stand 
in the oven until cool or it will split. store in an 
airtight container for up to 3 days.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
297* You will need— cup and 
spoon measures, electric 
mixer, plastic spatula, baking tray and baking paper.
* As with any meringue, a 
clean bowl, free from oil or water, is required to succeed. So make sure no egg yolks drop into the egg whites when separating the eggs, as egg yolks are a type of fat. Should some egg yolk or shell drop into the egg whites, then use an emptied egg shell to scoop out the offenders; this is by far the best method and works without having to fish around for ages trying to get foreign matter out.
* Depending on how you like 
your ‘pav’— thin and crispy 
or thick and marshmallowy—will determine how you spread it on the tray. Pile it high and rounded to have a marshmallow centre.
* For individual pavlovas, 
simply dollop small oblong shapes onto the baking paper, but not too close as they will expand.
* The addition of boiling 
water to the mixture at the end adds steam to the cooking process, making the pavlova lighter and fluffier.* Pavlova is traditionally 
served with whipped cream (600 ml for this recipe) and chopped fruit— but not 
just any fruit. Banana, passionfruit, kiwifruit or strawberries are as varied as it gets. Use a combination of these 4 or theme the pavlova with just one fruit.
* For a chocolate pavlova—
add 3 tablespoons Dutch cocoa powder (sifted) when adding the cornflour. Once cooked and cooled, serve with whipped cream and fresh raspberries.
* This popular dish is named 
after the famous ballerina Anna Pavlova, who toured Australia and New Zealand in the 1920s. This brings about the age-old debate— which 
country can claim the dish as its own? Well, as true blue Aussie as I may be, I have to say that several historians have pointed out quite clearly that there are recipes as far back as 1922 in New Zealand with names ranging from meringue cake to pavlova cake (1933). Australia’s first claim to this dish is 1935 when made and named ‘pavlova’ at the Esplanade Hotel in Western Australia by chef Bert Sachse. But whatever its origins, pavlova will always be an Aussie favourite.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 298Peach Melba
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 ripe freestone peaches
300 g sugar500 ml water1 cinnamon stick300 ml raspberry sauce4 scoops of best quality vanilla ice-cream
Method:
1. Gently make a light incision with a sharp knife 
around the outside of each peach.
2. Place the sugar, water and cinnamon in a large 
saucepan and bring to the boil. reduce the heat to simmer, immerse the peaches into the simmering liquid and cook for 10 minutes.
3. carefully remove the peaches. cool for several 
minutes, then peel the skin from the flesh with a small knife.
4. To serve—place 1 scoop of ice-cream in the centre 
of a chilled plate or in a dessert glass. With the back of the ice-cream scoop, press into the centre of the ball of ice-cream to make a small hollow in which to place the peach. Pour a small amount of raspberry sauce over the peach and serve immediately.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
299* You will need— cutting 
board, paring knife, liquid 
and weight measures, sieve,  2 bowls and ice-cream scoop.
* This classic dessert 
was named in honour of the Australian soprano opera singer Dame Nellie Melba. It was invented in London at the Savoy Hotel by Auguste Escoffier, a brilliant contemporary, known as ‘the Emperor of chefs’, who also named Melba toast after her.
* An alternative to the 
suggested presentation is to slice the cooked peach in half, remove the stone, place one half on the plate, place the ice-cream ball in the centre of the peach half and sandwich with the other half, then drizzle with the raspberry sauce.
* Substitute the water in 
the poaching liquid for white wine or champagne, add 2 pieces of lemon zest, and replace the cinnamon stick with a vanilla bean, sliced lengthways. This more expensive and decadent poaching liquor can be cooled and frozen for poaching other fruits like pears, apricots or more peaches.
* Fresh, ripe white peaches 
are a great substitute for regular yellow peaches.* Once the peaches have 
cooked, remove from the syrup, peel and set aside while the syrup cools; then store the peaches in the syrup overnight to absorb extra flavour.
* The peaches requested 
are free-stone (also known as ‘slip stone’), so-called because the stone will pop out easily when sliced in half. Naturally, peaches that have stones that cling to the flesh are known as ‘cling stone’ peaches. Although these peaches are equally tasty, they are doubly hard to eat in a delicate dessert such as this one.
* Optional is to serve 
this dessert with a dollop of whipped cream and some toasted slivered almonds, in addition to the ice-cream and raspberry sauce.
* For something different, 
try slicing the peaches in half, remove the stones, grill on the barbecue, turn and dust with icing sugar. Cook for another minute, transfer to a plate, and add the ice-cream, fresh cream, if desired, and fresh raspberries.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 300Pecan Pie
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Pastry
1 x recipe quantity for lemon meringue pie
Pecan filling
150 g caster sugar3 eggs, lightly beaten250 ml corn syrup or pure maple syrup75 g butter, melted1 teaspoon vanilla extractpinch of salt200 g shelled, roasted and chopped pecan nuts
Method:
1. for the pastry—follow steps 1–3 in lemon meringue 
pie.
2. Mix the sugar, eggs, corn syrup, butter, vanilla, 
salt and half of the pecan nuts with a wooden spoon, until thoroughly combined.
3. Pour into the prepared pie base, and sprinkle with 
the remaining pecan nuts.
4. Place the flan tin on a baking tray and bake in 
180°c oven for 1 hour or until firm and golden brown. serve warm with whipped or double cream.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
301* You will need— weight, 
liquid and spoon measures, 
bowls, food processor, rolling pin, 23-cm flan tin or pie dish, baking tray, bowl, wooden spoon, plastic spatula and cooling rack.
* There are several styles 
of pecan pie and this is just one of them. They can be thick and pasty with loads of nuts or thin and caramel-like with very few nuts. One thing most aficionados agree— the 
base should not be soggy or too thick.
* A different slant on this 
recipe is to use cream in  the filling. Mix 6 egg yolks, 120 ml corn or pure maple syrup, 100 g dark brown sugar, 90 ml bourbon, 200 ml double cream then fold in  250 g pecan nuts. Pour into the base and bake for  45 minutes.
* Should the pastry start 
to get too dark, carefully remove the pie from the oven and place a thin layer of foil around the flan to cover the edges, then carefully place back in the oven for the remaining time.
* To save time, buy a pre-
baked flan base from the supermarket.* Roasting the pecan nuts at 
180ºC until lightly golden ensures that they don’t go chewy and will enhance the flavour.
* Keep in mind pecan nuts 
are seasonal, so check the use-by date and where the nuts are from. Old pecan nuts taste rancid and can completely wreck the pie. Look for locally grown or fresh imports from reputable markets or delicatessens.
* Try replacing the pecan 
nuts with chopped macadamia nuts or walnuts.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 302PumPkin Pie
Serves 10–12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 x recipe quantity Shortcrust Pastry
Pumpkin filling
3 eggs450 g fresh pumpkin puree or 425 g can plain pumpkin 
puree
125 ml thickened cream100 g soft brown sugar1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground ginger
pinch of ground clovespinch of freshly grated nutmeg
½ teaspoon salt
Method:
1. for the pastry—remove the dough from the fridge, 
roll out to a thickness of 3–5 mm and drape over a flan tin or pie dish. refrigerate for 30 minutes to allow the gluten to settle and to avoid shrinkage when baked.
2. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper to catch any spills.
3. for the filling—whisk the eggs lightly (do not 
add too much air) in a large bowl. add the remaining filling ingredients and gently whisk to combine. Pour into the pie case and place on the prepared baking tray.
4. Bake the pie in the oven for 45–55 minutes or until 
the filling is set (see Hints and tips) and the crust is brown—the centre will still look wet. Place the pie on a wire rack to cool.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
303* You will need— 23-cm flan 
tin or pie dish, rolling pin, 
baking tray, baking paper, spoon, liquid and weight measures, whisk, wooden spoon, large bowl, plastic spatula and wire rack.
* Hot tip— I highly 
recommend making a pecan and ginger biscuit layer to sprinkle over the uncooked pastry base before adding the pumpkin filling. This tasty layer, from the highly acclaimed pastry cook Rose Levy Beranbaum, absorbs excess moisture, ensuring the pastry base stays dry and crispy after the pie  is cooked. Simply combine  25 g pecan nuts (toasted and ground) and 25 g crushed gingernut biscuits.
* Fresh roasted pumpkin 
is also highly recommended for this dish. You will need approximately 2– 3 kg 
butternut, Japola (Jap) or Kent. Cut the pumpkin in half, remove seeds and fibres, place in a roasting pan and cook at 170ºC for 45 minutes to 1
½ hours, depending on 
size, until a knife inserted into the pumpkin has no resistance. Cool the pumpkin, scoop flesh from the skin and puree, then drain in muslin (cheesecloth) or a very fine strainer for several hours to extract as much liquid as possible (do not force it through). Then weigh the 450 g needed for the above recipe.
* Serve with dolloping cream 
or plain whipped cream. Or try with maple cream— 300 ml thickened cream,  2 tablespoons pure maple syrup. Lightly whip the cream to soft peaks, stir in the maple syrup, then finish whipping to a firm peak. Refrigerate until needed.
* Once again, this is a 
baked custard-style dessert, therefore there are some basic rules to follow to avoid shrinkage, cracking and drooping of the custard once cooled. Do not overcook, it is best to have the centre slightly wet and undercooked, then turn off the oven and with the door ajar, leave the pie to cool in the oven before removing and placing in the refrigerator to set cold. Also, do not over-mix or whisk the filling too much as the extra added air will first expand and then collapse upon cooling, leaving a depression in the centre.
* This pie is cooked with 
a raw base compared with some pies that have the base cooked first and then the filling added before being baked. Buying a pre-made flan or pie base will save time. When adding the pie filling, reduce the oven temperature to 150ºC and bake for the same amount of time, even a bit longer. This gentle heat is much better suited to the delicate custard filling. The same rules apply in mixing and cooling to avoid cracking and sinking.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 304Queen of puddings
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 ml milk
300 ml thickened creamzest of 1 lemon50 g unsalted butter5 egg yolks75 g caster sugar50 ml brandy (optional)100 g fresh white bread with crusts removed,  
torn into small pieces
150 g jam (any flavour is fine)
Meringue
3 egg whites150 g caster sugar
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c. Grease a baking dish or 
6 individual soufflé moulds.
2. heat the milk, cream, lemon zest and butter in a 
saucepan and cook until the butter melts.
3. Whisk the egg yolks, sugar and brandy in a bowl, 
then whisk in the hot milk mixture. add the bread and stand for 20 minutes or until the bread swells.
4. ladle the mixture into the prepared baking dish/es, 
place in a baking pan and add enough hot water to come halfway up the sides of the dish/es. carefully place in the oven, making sure water doesn’t splash into the pudding.
5. Bake for 35 minutes for a large dish or 20 minutes 
for individual dishes. The pudding is ready when the centre is set like jelly. remove from the oven and cool for 5 minutes. Melt the jam in a small saucepan or in the microwave and gently spoon over the pudding, being careful not to break the surface. reset the oven to 200ºc.Desserts 305 
* You will need— 1.5-litre 
baking dish or 6 soufflé 
moulds, saucepan, deep baking pan, 2 bowls, electric mixer, weight and liquid measures, ladle and plastic spatula.
* This recipe can be made 
successfully using all milk instead of the combination of milk and cream.
* This old school recipe 
makes use of a classic uncooked meringue. The following option requires a bit more skill, but with amazing results. The only difference is in the meringue finish. Make the pudding base and top with Italian meringue. Use a piping bag with a star nozzle and pipe the Italian meringue over the pudding which will NOT need to go into the oven to cook (the meringue is cooked by the boiling sugar syrup). To add colour to the outside, use a cook’s blow torch or quickly brown under a hot grill.
* Once the custard has been 
made, instead of adding jam, try adding soft fruit compote like rhubarb, peach or pears, then top with the meringue.
* Make a Black Forest queen 
of puddings— add 60 ml kirsch 
(cherry liqueur) to the custard before baking, then melt cherry conserve to add over the custard and top with a can of cherries (drained of their liquid). Grate 100 g chocolate over the cherries before adding the meringue. Serve with a chocolate sauce.* For a special occasion—
decorate the cooked meringue with gold leaf which is available at quality food stores or selected delicatessens. Be sure to wear cotton gloves (available at supermarkets in the cleaning supplies area) as the gold leaf will stick to your fingers.Method cont.
6. For the meringue—whisk the egg whites until firm 
then beat in the sugar in 2 batches. Continue beating until all the sugar is incorporated.
7. spoon the meringue over the pudding and place back 
in the oven for 10 minutes to cook and brown the meringue. serve hot with whipped cream.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 306-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------RaspbeRRy fool
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 2 bowls, 
spoon, fork, fine sieve, 
weight, liquid and spoon measures, whisk or electric mixer, plastic spatula and  4 serving glasses.
* Use leftover raspberry 
sauce to make Raspberry fool.
* Serve with a thin or 
sponge biscuit like biscotti, amaretti biscuits, short bread or savoiardi.
* Try making an adult 
version by adding 60 ml of sweet liqueur like Chambord (raspberry), Cointreau or Grand Marnier (orange), or Crème de Cacao (chocolate).* Add 60 ml of quality 
cordial like elderflower, rose petal or lime. Look out for exotic cordials in the beverage section of the supermarket or health food stores.
* Other flavours include— any 
style of berry, either on its own or a combination for berry fool; fresh mangoes (puree half and dice the remainder) with the same weight ratio makes a refreshing mango fool; rhubarb fool, using 300 g cooked rhubarb; and passionfruit and banana fool, with a single banana diced and added to the glass and the pulp of 6 passionfruit mixed into the semi-whipped cream with 2 tablespoons icing sugar.300 g fresh raspberries
50 g pure icing sugar300 ml thickened cream
½ teaspoon vanilla 
extractMethod:
1. Place half the raspberries in a bowl with the icing 
sugar and mash with a fork. Pour into a fine sieve and work with the back of a spoon to press out all the pulp.
2. Whip the cream to soft peaks and gently fold in 
the raspberry puree; do not mix too much so it has a ripple effect through the cream.
3. Divide the remaining raspberries between 4 small 
serving glasses—place a few raspberries at the base of each glass, divide the raspberry cream between the 4 glasses and top with the remaining raspberries. refrigerate for a couple of hours before serving.Desserts 307-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Stewed rhubarb
Makes 1 cup
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
and weight measures and saucepan.
* Peeling rhubarb is not 
necessary, although sometimes when the stalks are very thick, peeling some strands reduces the stringiness in the dish.
* This small quantity is 
a guide based on it being enough for 1 serve. To say ‘use a bunch’, can mean the difference of 2– 3 stalks (of 
average size). Some cooks prefer their rhubarb sweeter or more tart simply by adjusting the sugar content.
* Discard any leaf matter 
attached to the stalk as it is poisonous. Small amounts are not life-threatening but will make you unwell.* To what stage the rhubarb 
is cooked depends on its use. For a compote served on porridge for breakfast, cooking for a few minutes might be enough to begin breaking down the rhubarb while still leaving large pieces for texture (although it won’t be crunchy or raw).
* For poached rhubarb—
here’s a technique used by 
chefs to preserve the shape of the rhubarb for use in elegant desserts or puddings. Make a pink vanilla sugar syrup with 250 g sugar,  250 ml water, 1 vanilla bean (cut lengthways and seeds scraped into the syrup) and any off-cuts and strings from a bunch of rhubarb (to impart flavour and colour). Bring the syrup to the boil and simmer gently for 10 minutes. Cut the rhubarb into 5-cm lengths and place in the simmering syrup for 30– 40 seconds only, 
then remove from the syrup onto a plate and cool. Strain 1 rhubarb stalk
25 ml water80 g sugarMethod:
1. Chop the rhubarb into 2-cm lengths. Place the 
rhubarb in a saucepan with the water and sugar, cover with a lid and cook gently until the rhubarb breaks down and most of the water has evaporated (about 10 minutes).
2. serve warm or cold with cream or custard.3. Cover and refrigerate for 5–7 days.
the syrup and cool completely 
before adding the rhubarb and the vanilla bean back into the syrup and storing in the refrigerator. Covered, poached rhubarb will last for 2 weeks in the syrup. Add the syrup for colour and flavour.
* For rhubarb pie— keep the 
slices chunky, remove from the heat and cool. If a bit watery, drain off some of the liquid before adding to the pie base, or combine cornflour and cold water and mix into the simmering rhubarb to thicken the juices, then cool completely before adding to the base. It may take as many as 2 bunches of rhubarb to fill a 23-cm pie dish. Many recipes for rhubarb pie suggest adding the uncooked rhubarb and the sugar to the uncooked pie base, this works well but be sure to overfill the base because as it cooks, the rhubarb loses its volume as it breaks down.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 308Rice pudding
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
120 g short-grain rice (not arborio or sushi rice)
1 litre full cream milkthickly peeled zest of 
½ lemon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
¼ teaspoon salt
100 g caster sugar
Method:
1. combine the rice, sugar, lemon zest, vanilla and 
salt in a saucepan, place over medium–high heat and bring to the boil. stir and reduce the heat to the lowest setting.
2. continue to stir as the rice can stick to the 
bottom of the pot.
3. it may appear at first as if there is no way the 
small amount of rice will thicken this amount of milk. Watch in amazement—after about an hour, it will begin to thicken. The pudding is ready when the milk is absorbed and the mixture is as thick as porridge. remove from the heat and stir in the sugar. remove the lemon zest, then cool the pudding and refrigerate. When cold, it is ready to serve. refrigerated and covered, rice pudding will last 3–4 days.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
309* You will need— saucepan, 
wooden spoon, liquid, weight 
and spoon measures and a vegetable peeler.
* There are so many recipes 
and styles of rice pudding it was hard to decide which should go in this book. I chose one my kids love to cook that tastes great. For this recipe, we semi-whip  200 ml thickened cream and fold it into the rice once it is fridge cold; it lightens it up and makes it go further.
* Serve with fresh fruit, 
fruit compote or stewed fruits, add toasted flaked almonds, or simply dust with ground cinnamon or a bit of ground nutmeg.
* This very same recipe 
can be baked for 3 hours in a 120ºC oven. Combine all the ingredients, including the sugar, and pour into a buttered baking dish. Be sure to stir the rice 3– 4 times 
in the first hour as the rice will settle.
* Portuguese and Spanish 
rice puddings are very similar to this recipe, except they start with the rice cooking in water. You need 500 ml water, 225 g short-grain rice, 500 ml hot milk, 225 g sugar, zest of 1 lemon (as above, use a vegetable peeler to make big strips of zest), 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. Place the water and rice in a medium-sized saucepan, cover and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer gently for 20 minutes. Add the hot milk, sugar and lemon zest, and cook uncovered until thick like porridge, about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally as it will stick and burn. Remove from the heat, discard the zest, spread the pudding into a shallow pie dish and place in the fridge to set cold. Dust with ground cinnamon before serving. This pudding will set firmer than the main recipe due to the extra rice added to the same liquid quantity.
* A huge range of 
ingredients can be added to or served with rice pudding. After cooking, try mixing in 100 g currants, sultanas, chopped dried figs or dried chopped apricots.
* If using dried fruits, 
soak in 30 ml liqueur of choice for a few hours before adding.
* Roasted and chopped nuts, 
such as almonds, hazelnuts, macadamias, pecans or pistachios can be sprinkled over the top. Instead  of vanilla extract, add  
½ teaspoon rosewater or 
orange blossom water.
* For the health conscious—
substitute the milk with soy milk and the white rice for a short-grain brown rice (available in health food stores), then use brown sugar at the end. Cook using the same method and times mentioned.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 310Sticky date pudding
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 g pitted dates
1 teaspoon bicarbonate of soda200 ml boiling water100 g butter, softened200 g soft brown sugar3 eggs, at room temperature200 g self-raising flour, sifted
Method:
1. Mix the dates, bicarbonate of soda and boiling 
water in a bowl and stand until completely cool.
2. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. lightly grease a pudding 
dish or cake tin.
3. cream the butter and sugar with an electric mixer. 
add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition to ensure the mixture stays smooth. if the eggs are cold direct from the fridge, the mixture may split (see hints and tips).
4. use a wooden spoon to fold in the flour and date 
mixture. if the mixture is runny, then everything is fine.
5. Pour the mixture into the prepared dish, place in 
the oven and bake for 35–45 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the middle comes out clean. serve with cream or one of the suggested sauces below.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
311 
* You will need— bowl, 
electric mixer, 1-litre 
pudding bowl or cake tin, weight, liquid and spoon measures and wooden spoon.
* Ensure all ingredients 
are at room temperature to avoid the pudding mixture splitting. Adding cold eggs, even one at a time, to the room temperature butter and sugar will curdle the mixture every time.
* If, when adding the eggs, 
the mixture does split, don’t panic; continue as per the recipe and surprisingly, once baked, the final product will be fine.
* Serve cold the next day 
as a cake or part of school/office lunches.
* Serve with butterscotch 
sauce, pecan toffee sauce or  
simple toffee sauce.
* Try adding 200 g dark or 
milk chocolate buttons to the batter before it goes into the oven.
* Make butterscotch sauce  
and pour into the base of a baking dish or cake tin. Pour the pudding batter over the sauce and cook at 180°C for the same time. Test if ready by inserting a skewer into the centre of the pudding. Adjust the cooking time if underdone. When the pudding is cooked, turn out immediately onto a large plate to expose the gooey base.
* Cooking the pudding in a 
water bath in the oven is optional and can keep the pudding a bit moister, but add an extra 15– 20 minutes 
to the cooking time. A water bath requires placing the pudding in a deep baking tray and adding boiling water to come halfway up the sides of the pudding bowl.
* Leftover pudding can be 
cut into individual serves, wrapped separately and frozen. Defrost and microwave briefly before serving as a quick dessert when a friend drops in or just for you.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 312Summer pudding
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
400 g strawberries, hulled and quartered
550 g raspberries400 g blueberries200 g caster sugar150 ml water1 loaf fresh, dense white bread, thickly sliced and 
crusts removed
Method:
1. combine the berries, sugar and water in a medium 
saucepan and stir gently over low heat, without boiling, until the sugar has dissolved. Bring to a simmer, remove from the heat and allow to stand for about 5 minutes. strain the juices from the fruit and keep to one side.
2. cut half the bread slices into triangles, leaving 
the rest in squares.
3. firmly pack a layer of the triangular bread slices 
into the base of a glass bowl. line the sides of the bowl with the squares of bread, overlapping just slightly.
4. spoon the strained berries into the centre of the 
bowl and pour enough juice over the top to nearly cover the fruit. ensure the juices run through the bread slices lining the bowl. leave to stand for  2 minutes.
5. cover the top of the fruit with overlapping 
triangular slices of bread. Pour a little more juice over the top to saturate the bread.Desserts 313 
* You will need— saucepan, 
wooden spoon, liquid and 
weight measures, paring knife, 2-litre capacity pudding bowl (shallow or small casserole dishes will also work), plate to cover and canned food for weights.
* Try different breads like 
fruit bread, wholegrain, rye or light rye. Very cheap white bread tends to turn a bit slimy, so I like to make this pudding with day-old light rye or at Christmas time with Italian panettone, so the bread remains moist and has some texture even when thoroughly soaked by the berry juices.
* If fresh berries are 
out of season, substitute with frozen berries in the quantities mentioned. Frozen strawberries are best substituted with frozen blackberries.
* Other berries not 
mentioned but equally good are blackberries, boysenberries, mulberries and redcurrants. Traditionally, this pudding is made only with raspberries and redcurrants at a ratio of 4 parts raspberries to 1 part redcurrants. With so many fresh ripe berries around, why not make the pudding burst with every variety available.
* Serve with natural 
yoghurt, crème fraîche, double cream or whipped cream.* A tip for berry season—
when berries sit in the fridge and are not eaten, pop them in clip lock bags and place in the freezer. A collection will soon build—time to make summer pudding.Method cont.
6. Place the bowl in a larger dish to catch any juice 
that may spill. Cover the pudding with plastic wrap and place a plate or saucer (only slightly smaller than the mouth of the bowl) on top, then weigh down with a couple of cans of tomatoes from the pantry. the weight will cause the juice to bleed through the bread staining it red. refrigerate overnight to allow the pudding to set. to serve, unmould the pudding onto a serving plate, slice and serve with pouring cream.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 314Syrup pudding
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5 tablespoons golden syrup
150 g unsalted butter, softened150 g caster sugar2 eggs, at room temperature, lightly beaten
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
140 g self-raising flour, sifted2 tablespoons milk
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc. Grease a pudding bowl. 
Pour the golden syrup into the base of the pudding bowl.
2. cream the butter and sugar with an electric mixer. 
Beat in the eggs and vanilla extract. fold in the flour and stir in enough milk to make the mixture a soft, dropping consistency. Pour into the prepared pudding bowl.
3. cut a round of baking paper and place on top of 
the pudding. cover the top of the bowl with foil and secure with a large elastic band or crimp the edges of the foil to keep it in place.
4. stand the pudding bowl in a deep baking tray and 
add boiling water to reach halfway up the sides of the bowl. Place in the oven and bake for at least 2 hours, topping the tray up with water as required during the cooking time.
5. remove the pudding bowl from the tray and cool a 
little. remove the foil and baking paper. To turn out, loosen the pudding with a small knife, place the serving plate over the pudding and invert the two together so the plate is now on the bottom and the bowl is upside down. remove the bowl to reveal the fabulous pudding. slice and serve with cream, ice-cream, custard or sauce (see hints and tips).Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
315* You will need— 1-litre 
pudding bowl, spoon and 
weight measures, bowl, electric mixer, wooden spoon, sieve and deep baking tray.
* This pudding is known also 
as ‘golden syrup steamed pudding’ or ‘steamed syrup pudding’.
* For a steamed ginger 
pudding, sprinkle ½ teaspoon 
ground ginger over the syrup in the base of the bowl and  2 teaspoons ground ginger into the pudding mixture before baking.
* A sauce for this pudding 
can be made as follows— juice and zest of 1 orange,  1 tablespoon dark brown sugar, 3 tablespoons golden syrup and 30 ml orange liqueur (optional). Place the orange juice and zest, sugar and syrup in a saucepan. Bring to the boil then reduce heat to low and simmer for  2 minutes, remove from heat and add liqueur if using. Pour over the hot pudding at the table.
* A simpler sauce would be 
to just drizzle an extra  3 tablespoons golden syrup over the pudding when it’s turned out.* Cooking the pudding for 
2 hours may seem like a long time to wait for a simple dessert. There is an alternative— bake the 
pudding without the water bath at 160ºC for 45 minutes. The resulting pudding is a bit drier than the steamed version but is still very delicious.
* If the pudding is left 
to sit for several hours or overnight, the syrup is absorbd into the sponge. To serve, simply place a portion in the microwave on high for 30 seconds, drizzle with extra golden syrup and serve with cream or ice-cream.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 316Tiramisu
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
4 eggs
125 g caster sugar100 ml marsala500 g mascarpone cheese450 ml thickened cream, lightly whipped300 ml espresso coffee100 ml k ahlua (coffee liqueur)
1 packet sponge biscuits (savoiardi)drinking cocoa, for dusting
Method:
1. Place the eggs, sugar and marsala in a heatproof 
bowl over a pot of simmering water and whisk until light, fluffy and at ribbon stage—this is called a zabaglione. for a quick method, whisk the mixture until hot, transfer to an electric mixer and beat on high until the mixture cools.
2. Place the mascarpone cheese in another bowl, add 
some of the egg mixture and stir until the mascarpone is soft. add the rest of the egg mixture and mix until well combined. Mix the cream in thoroughly and set aside.
3. in a third bowl, combine the coffee and kahlua.4. Dip one biscuit at a time into the coffee mixture 
very briefly— too long and the biscuit will become soggy 
and fall apart, as well as make the tiramisu too wet. Place a layer of dipped sponge biscuits in the base of a large bowl, cake tin or rectangular baking dish.
5. Pour half the mascarpone mixture over the biscuits, 
spreading evenly. Top with a second layer of coffee-dipped biscuits and another layer of the mascarpone mixture.
6. Dust heavily with the cocoa and refrigerate for at 
least 6 hours, preferably overnight, for the tiramisu to set properly.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
317* You will need— 3 bowls, 
whisk, electric mixer, sieve, 
weight and liquid measures, large serving bowl, cake tin or rectangle dish and spatula.
* Every time I write a 
version of a classic recipe, I fear the backlash from the die-hard lovers of that dish and their banshee-like screams of, ‘This is not how you make ...!’ Tiramisu is one of those dishes. First, as much as I love tiramisu made with no cream and all mascarpone, it is not always economical as mascarpone is quite expensive, very dense and extremely rich, therefore I have provided a lighter version. The intrinsic flavours of the dish are there— coffee, marsala, 
coffee liqueur, chocolate and sponge. Please enjoy.
* For a richer tiramisu, 
leave out the whipped cream altogether. Separate the egg yolks and egg whites, make the zabaglione with the yolks, and in a clean bowl whisk the egg whites to stiff peaks. Mix the mascarpone with the zabaglione then fold in the beaten egg whites. The custard is now ready to layer with the other ingredients.
* For an alcohol-free and 
child-friendly version, replace the espresso and Kahlua with 400 ml strong hot chocolate cooled to room temperature before use.
* The instruction to 
‘briefly’ dip the sponge biscuits in the coffee mixture is vital. I even press the biscuits between the palms of my hands to squeeze out excess liquid to guarantee that my tiramisu does not develop a pool of diluted coffee at the bottom of the dish after it sets.
* Tiramisu can be 
successfully frozen for a completely different effect, a cross between ice-cream, granita and cassata.
* A berry tiramisu can 
be made by removing the coffee element. Use sponge cake instead of biscuits, and brush the sponge with Chambord (raspberry liqueur), layer with fresh berries and raspberry sauce, and the mascarpone-zabaglione cream.
* Allergic to eggs? An egg-
free tiramisu uses the same recipe as above, but instead of making a zabaglione with the eggs and sugar, add an extra 100 g mascarpone. Beat the sugar into the whipped cream and mix into the mascarpone. Continue with the same method.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 318Trifle
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Sponge
7 eggs180 g caster sugar80 g plain flour40 g cornflourextra caster sugar, for sprinkling
Custard
250 ml milk250 ml cream1 teaspoon vanilla extract8 egg yolks60 g caster sugar1 tablespoon cornflour
1 packet raspberry jelly or 200 g raspberry jam
300 ml dry masala, spanish sherry or other liqueur  
like cointreau
fruit of choice (see Hints and tips)
Method:
1. for the sponge—preheat the oven to 200ºc. Grease 
and flour a lamington tin. Place the eggs and sugar in a heatproof bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and whisk until thick and pale, about 10 minutes. sift in the flour and cornflour and fold gently to combine. Pour into the prepared tin and bake for 10–12 minutes or until cooked and golden on the surface. cool on a wire rack, sprinkle with the extra caster sugar and turn out when cold.
2. for the custard—bring the milk, cream and vanilla 
to a simmer in a saucepan. Whisk the egg yolks with the sugar and cornflour until just combined. Whisk in the warm milk mixture. strain the custard back into the rinsed saucepan, place over a medium heat and stir constantly with a wooden spoon until the mixture thickens and coats the back of the spoon. remove from the heat and set aside.Desserts 319 
* You will need— electric 
mixer, whisk, liquid, weight 
and spoon measures, wooden spoon, saucepan, lamington tin, sieve, cutting board, paring knife and 2-litre capacity glass bowl.
* The humble trifle is many 
things to many cooks. Jam or jelly? Sponge or biscuits? Sherry, marsala or brandy? No alcohol at all? Packet custard or homemade English custard? Fruit or no fruit? Nuts or no nuts? This recipe is to be messed with. Adjust it to bring back favourable memories of the trifle you grew up with; or stick with my recipe if the one you recall was too wet and had too much cheap sherry.
* Although best made the 
day before, a free-form trifle is an exciting last-minute dessert where all the components are put together in individual glasses or on a plate. The cook becomes the artist and decides what fruit, custard, sponge cake and alcohol is used— and how 
they are assembled.
* For a really quick 
and easy trifle, all the ingredients can be bought pre-made: sponge cake, sponge biscuits or jam sponge roll, and pre-made custard in the fridge section of your supermarket. If you are using jelly, that’s really the only ingredient you need to make.
* For alcohol-free trifle, 
use cordial; look out for some of the gourmet cordials available at selected supermarkets and delicatessens.
* Use fresh berries and 
raspberry sauce,  or poached 
peaches with peach schnapps.Method cont.
3. to assemble—select your best large glass bowl. Make 
the jelly following the instructions on the packet. Chop the set jelly into chunks. Or if using the jam, place in a microwave-proof bowl and microwave for  1 minute, remove and stir. Continue until the jam is quite soft. spread the jam over the cooled sponge. Cut the sponge into pieces and divide into 2 batches (the base and middle layer). Put 1 batch of the sponge in the base of the bowl and sprinkle on half the alcohol. Add the fruit then some chopped jelly (if using), and finish this first layer with some custard. Add the second layer of sponge, sprinkle with the remaining alcohol, add more fruit and jelly, then top with the custard.
4. Place the trifle in the fridge overnight before 
serving with freshly whipped cream and toasted almonds.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 320Yoghurt and lemon mousse
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 ml thickened cream
100 g pure icing sugar300 g firm, drained natural yoghurt (see Hints and tips)juice and zest of 
½ lemon
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
2 gelatine leaves1 tablespoon thickened cream, extra
Method:
1. Place the cream and sugar in a cold mixing bowl and 
whisk to soft peaks; keep refrigerated.
2. combine the yoghurt, lemon juice and zest, and 
vanilla extract in a bowl, and mix well.
3. Place the gelatine leaves in a bowl or pot with 
plenty of cold water. When the gelatine breaks down and becomes soft, heat the tablespoon of cream in a saucepan or in a microwave. squeeze the water out of the softened gelatine and stir the gelatine into the hot cream until dissolved.
4. add a spoonful of yoghurt to the gelatine cream 
mixture then stir this mixture back into the yoghurt. fold in the semi-whipped cream then pour into individual glasses or into 1 large dish, and refrigerate until set (at least 4 hours). serve with fresh berries or rhubarb compote. This mousse will 
keep for 1 week, covered and refrigerated.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
321* You will need— 2 bowls, 
electric mixer, plastic 
spatula, spoon, liquid and weight measures, small saucepan or microwave dish and 4 glasses or 1 large dish for serving.
* Drained yoghurt is an 
overnight job. To make this dish, start the day before and serve the day after the mousse is made. To yield  300 g strained yoghurt, you will need to start out with 500–600 g natural yoghurt. Line a strainer with cheesecloth, muslin cloth or a clean tea towel and place over a bowl or bucket to catch the liquid. Pour the yoghurt into the cloth and cover with plastic wrap, then refrigerate for 24 hours (the longer it drains, the thicker it will get; after 3 days, it becomes a yoghurt cheese called ‘labna’). The remaining firm yoghurt may not be exactly the right measure, so make sure there are 300 g. Throw out the residual liquid. Any leftover strained yoghurt can be used to make tzatziki dip.
* Gelatine comes from 
the collagen in animal parts, especially skin, hooves and bones. When boiled, they become sticky and set to a jelly-like texture. Commercial gelatine is available as granules or sheets (known as leaf gelatine). Chefs tend to recommend leaf gelatine (common in European countries) rather than granules, because it translates to a more precise measure. Gelatine granules are sometimes referred to as powdered gelatine (favoured in the US).
* If gelatine granules are 
easier to use than gelatine leaves, then substitute  2 gelatine leaves with  1 teaspoon gelatine granules.
* Make sure the lemon is 
washed and dried before any zest is grated. Dirt, wax and insect naughties may be on the surface, so clean before use.
* The pure icing sugar can 
be substituted for caster sugar.
* To lighten the mousse, 
beat 2 egg whites with a pinch of salt to soft peaks and fold into the mousse after the cream is added.
* This light and tangy 
mousse is refreshing on a warm night. Serve with a citrus salad (orange, lime and pink grapefruit with shredded mint) or drizzle with slightly warmed honey.* Substitute the teaspoon  
of vanilla extract with  
¼ teaspoon rosewater or 
orange blossom water.
* Scoop into a dessert bowl 
and serve with a drizzle of raspberry sauce and a handful of fresh raspberries.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 322Zabaglione
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
8 egg yolks
120 g caster sugar120 ml white wine30 ml brandyfew drops of vanilla extract
Method:
1. Place the egg yolks and sugar in a large heatproof 
bowl and whisk until pale and thick. add the white wine, brandy and vanilla, and mix well.
2. Place the bowl over a saucepan filled to one-third 
with simmering water. The bowl should sit snugly on the saucepan but the bottom of the bowl should not touch the water. Whisk the zabaglione over medium heat until it thickens and doubles in volume.
3. remove the bowl from the pan and cool the 
zabaglione before pouring into serving glasses.Desserts-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
323* You will need— large 
heatproof bowl, and liquid 
weight measures, saucepan  and whisk.
* For new cooks who have 
not had much experience whisking, bring in a friend to share the job. I only say this because it is a long, continuous process and if halted, the sauce could begin to scramble. There is a real chance that the whisking arm will get tired before the sauce is fluffy enough to serve.
* A fine-wired whisk with 
many wires is recommended. It is a great investment for any kitchen, and many sauces and dressings in this book make good use of a quality whisk. Hard whisks, that is, a whisk with fewer thick wires, are wasted in a domestic kitchen.
* Zabaglione is 
traditionally flavoured with sweet marsala, an Italian fortified wine. If you choose to use marsala, drop the sugar content in this recipe by 20 g. Then use 150 ml marsala instead of the wine and brandy combination.
* The recipe provided 
is actually closer to a ‘sabayon’, the French version 
of Italy’s zabaglione. Simply replace the wine and brandy for 160 ml champagne.
* Zabaglione is served 
as a dessert on its own, accompanied by biscotti or savoiardi (sponge biscuits) for dipping.
* Once the zabaglione has 
been placed in glasses—whether they be fancy goblets, martini glasses or simple latte glasses— top 
with a sprinkling of drinking cocoa or grate some excellent quality dark chocolate over the top.
* Spoon some fresh berries 
into the base of a shallow bowl and pour the zabaglione over the top. Place under a hot grill to quickly brown the top. This is called ‘berries gratin’ and is a 
very easy and impressive dessert to make for your next dinner party.
* Zabaglione goes well with 
berries or poached fruit (quince, pears, rhubarb), or baked apples; sprinkled with chocolate, ground cinnamon or nutmeg; or served with almond bread, sable biscuits, langue du chat (small, delicate biscuits resembling a cat’s tongue).* Add ½ cup semi-whipped 
cream when the zabaglione has cooled completely and serve instead of custard or cream. This lighter version is great with plain sponge cake, madeira cake, scones or pavlova.------------------------------------
12.  Cakes,  Biscuits  and Pastries xxx xxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 326Almond breAd
Makes 30–34 slices
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5 egg whites
150 g caster sugar100 g plain flour, sifted50 g almond meal150 g almonds
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. Grease a loaf tin.2. Beat the egg whites until soft peaks form. 
Gradually add the caster sugar, beating well after each addition. continue to beat until all the sugar is dissolved.
3. fold in the flour, almond meal and almonds.4. spread the mixture into the prepared tin. Bake for 
30–35 minutes or until just firm to touch. Turn out of the tin to cool.
5. When cold, wrap in foil and set aside for 2–5 days 
or place in the refrigerator for several hours to harden. use a very sharp knife to cut the bread into wafer-thin slices (about 2 mm).
6. Preheat the oven to 120°c. line 2 baking trays with 
baking paper.
7. Place the slices on the prepared trays and bake in 
the oven for 35 minutes or until dry and crisp. cool and store in an airtight container for up to  2–3 months.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
327* You will need— electric 
mixer, wooden spoon, 25-cm x 
8-cm loaf tin, sieve, weight measure, cutting board, very sharp cook’s knife or serrated knife or electric knife and 2 baking trays.
* The cooked almond bread 
needs to be firm to slice. Stale or refrigerated almond bread is far easier to handle and cut thinly than a fresh product which will tear easily.
* For a festive feel, 
replace 50 g almonds with 50 g red and green glacé cherries. Add the cherries when the almonds are added.
* The almonds can have skin 
on or be blanched.
* For those cooks lucky 
enough to have a deli slicer (used to cut salami and ham), the bread can be kept in the freezer then sliced very thinly straight from the freezer.
* Try adding the zest of 
1 lemon and 25 g dried cranberries.
* Serve almond bread as a 
dipping biscuit for crème brulee, zabaglione, chocolate mousse or rice pudding. Sandwich a scoop of ice-cream between 2 pieces of almond bread and drizzle with butterscotch sauce or raspberry sauce.
* Try making a dessert dip 
using 250 g mascarpone cheese mixed with 60 g pure icing sugar and the juice of 
½ a 
lemon. Place in the centre of the table with a stack of almond bread.
* Almond bread can also be 
served with a cheese platter.
* A batch of almond bread 
biscuits tied in a cellophane bag with ribbon makes for a lovely gift at any time of year but especially at Christmas time when made with red and green glacé cherries.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 328AnzAc biscuits
Makes about 36
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 cup rolled oats
1 teaspoon salt
½ cup plain flour
½ cup caster sugar
½ cup desiccated coconut
100 g butter1 tablespoon golden syrup1 teaspoon baking soda2 tablespoons boiling water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc or 160ºc for fan-forced. 
line a baking tray with baking paper.
2. Mix the oats, salt, flour, sugar and coconut 
together in a large bowl, and set aside.
3. Gently melt the butter and golden syrup in a 
saucepan, and stir until thoroughly combined.
4. combine the baking soda and water in a small bowl. 
Pour the foaming baking soda mixture into the warm butter and golden syrup and stir to incorporate—it will foam up again.
5. Gradually add the wet mixture to the dry 
ingredients, stirring well to incorporate.
6. Place 1 heaped teaspoon of mixture on the prepared 
tray, and continue until the tray is full, allowing room for the biscuits to spread. you may need to bake in batches. Press down on each biscuit with the back of a fork to flatten. Place on the bottom shelf in the oven and bake for 15 minutes or until golden, taking care not to burn them. allow to cool on the trays for a few minutes before transferring to a cooling rack. store in an airtight container.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
329* You will need— cup, spoon 
and weight measures, wooden 
spoon, saucepan, baking tray and 2 bowls.
* The original Anzac 
biscuits— also known as 
‘soldiers biscuits’— were 
tough eating. They were originally sent to the troops to provide a high protein, long-lasting and nourishing snack. They were so long-lasting, in fact, that some biscuits from WWI are still on show at the Australian War Memorial museum. Fortunately, today’s adapted recipe, although crunchy, is a far cry from the Anzac ‘tiles’ sent to the frontline.
* If by chance the biscuits 
burn, and depending on how burnt they are, a solution is to use a grater to file off the burnt spots. Of course, if totally blackened then the bin is a good home for them.
* Should the biscuits become 
soft from poor storage, all is not lost. Either feed them to starving teenagers or break them up and cook them as if they were porridge—this is not as strange as it sounds. Traditionally, when the biscuits were sent to the troops the soldiers either ate them as they were or crumbled them up, added water and cooked them to make a toasted porridge.
* Try adding ¼ cup chopped 
nuts like macadamia or blanched almonds to the basic recipe.
* Other additions to this 
recipe include flaked almonds (
¼ cup), sunflower seeds 
(¼ cup), pumpkin seeds ( ¼ 
cup), chopped dried fruit ( ¼ 
cup) or chocolate buttons (
¼ cup). Any combination of 
these can be added as long as the amount doesn’t exceed a total of 
¼ cup.
* Melt some quality cooking 
chocolate in a bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and drizzle over the cooked and cooled biscuits. Let the chocolate set before storing.
* Try replacing plain flour 
with rye flour, and the caster sugar with brown sugar for a richer flavour.
* Wholemeal flour is also a 
good replacement for plain flour.
* Self-raising flour can 
replace the plain flour/baking soda combination. Keep the flour quantities the same, so use 
½ cup self-raising flour 
in the recipe.* When a ball of the mixture 
is flattened slightly with a fork and it falls apart, it’s a sign that the biscuit dough is too dry. If this is the case, add another 
½–1 tablespoon water to the 
mixture to soften.
* If using a larger crystal 
sugar like raw sugar, add to the melted butter and heat to dissolve before adding the golden syrup.
* You might like to use 
treacle rather than golden syrup.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 330Baklava
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
12 sheets filo pastry
400 g crushed walnuts150 g butter, melted400 g sugar400 ml water
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Grease a baking dish.2. layer 3 sheets of filo pastry in the baking tray and 
brush each with the melted butter. keep the remaining pastry under a damp cloth to prevent it from drying out.
3. sprinkle with one-third of the walnuts and add 
another 3 sheets of pastry brushed with butter. continue until there are 4 layers of pastry and  3 layers of walnuts.
4. Brush the top layer of pastry with butter. use a 
sharp knife to cut on the diagonal a diamond shaped pattern on top. Place in the oven and bake for  20–25 minutes or until golden brown.
5. To make the sugar syrup, place the sugar and water 
in a pot and bring to the boil.
6. remove the baklava from the oven and pour enough 
of the hot sugar syrup over the top to almost cover the baklava. sometimes it will take all of the syrup and sometimes not. leftover syrup can be used in other dishes (see sugar syrup).
7. allow to cool to room temperature before cutting 
and serving. Baklava will last at least 2 weeks, covered in the refrigerator.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
331* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, pastry 
brush, saucepan, weight and liquid measures and 5-cm deep 23-cm x 18-cm baking dish.
* Historically, baklava 
originates from the Ottoman Empire. In those early times, it was made with 7 layers of nuts and 8 layers of pastry; pistachios were considered to be the most prestigious of fillings.
* 400 g walnuts is roughly  
3 cups. This recipe has  3 layers of nuts and 4 layers of pastry, therefore allow  1 cup crushed nuts per layer. This formula is handy to know if you decide to make a deeper baklava.
* The method in this recipe 
prescribes pouring hot sugar syrup over the baklava once removed from the oven. There is an alternative method giving a slightly different end result. Allow the baklava to cool completely to room temperature (at least  4 hours). Pour the hot sugar syrup over the cold baklava, cover with a clean cloth or tea towel and leave overnight to allow the syrup to soak in. The hot syrup over the hot baklava softens the pastry whereas the hot syrup over the cold baklava keeps the pastry crispy. Cover with a cloth or tea towel and not plastic film to prevent the hot syrup from keeping in the steam and softening the pastry.
* Regular walnuts available 
at the supermarket are best. The ‘eating out of hand’ walnuts differ to ‘baking’ walnuts which are darker and fuller tasting; however, baking walnuts are also more bitter and are generally only available at Middle Eastern grocers and nut specialists. The darker baking nut can be too strong to use in this delicate pastry treat.
* Use other nuts like 
almonds and pistachios mixed in with the walnuts or simply replace the walnuts for another nut.
* Add flavour to the sugar 
syrup—try the zest of  
1 lemon (remember to strain the syrup before pouring over the baklava) or 1 cup honey instead of 225 g (1 cup) sugar, or add 1 tablespoon rosewater or orange blossom water.
* To make eating easier 
at large gatherings, place slices of baklava in cupcake paper cases.* To serve, dust with icing 
mixture.
* Baklava can be frozen, but 
keeps very well covered and refrigerated or even stored in the pantry. Over a week or two, the baklava tends to get juicier; once it starts to dry out, it is past its use-by date.
* Leftover filo pastry can 
be wrapped and kept in the freezer for up to 2 months.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 332Bacon and egg pie
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 tablespoon olive oil
8 bacon rashers
½ cup fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves, chopped
1 sheet frozen shortcrust pastry, defrosted8 eggsfreshly ground black pepper1 sheet frozen puff pastry, defrosted1 egg yolk, for glazing
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. use a little of the oil 
to grease a shallow 22-cm pie or quiche dish with a removable base.
2. in a large sauté pan over medium–high heat, heat 
the remaining oil and fry the bacon, then remove from the pan and roughly chop.
3. Place the sheet of shortcrust pastry in the base of 
the dish.
4. sprinkle the bacon and parsley over the pastry 
base.
5. carefully crack the eggs so that the yolks and 
whites are arranged fairly evenly inside the pastry-lined dish. Grind pepper over the top.
6. Place the sheet of puff pastry over the filling and 
crimp the edges down with a fork. Trim the excess with a knife.
7. Brush the puff pastry top with the egg yolk, place 
in the refrigerator for 5 minutes and brush again with egg yolk.
8. Bake in the oven for about 30 minutes or until the 
pastry is golden brown and flaky. remove from the oven, and cool slightly in the tin before removing.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
333* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 22-cm 
pie dish or quiche dish, sauté or frying pan and cup and spoon measures.
* This really is an easy pie 
to make and one that kids will enjoy being involved in.
* It is fine to eat hot or 
cold—which means a slice 
in the school or office lunch box with some salad is a good idea. Or take cold to  a picnic.
* Serve warm in summer 
with a fresh salad and hot in winter with roasted vegetables on the side.
* Simply serve with mashed 
potato and a salad.
* Although regular bacon is 
fine to use, try sourcing a thick, smoky bacon for added flavour.
* Try adding a layer of a 
few slices of fresh tomato and a cup of sliced and sautéed button mushrooms over the bacon and then add the eggs.
* Some cooks love adding 
peas and corn to the pie, which means it isn’t really a bacon and egg pie, just a pie. Add 
½ cup frozen 
peas and ½ cup corn kernels to the bacon and parsley mixture.
* Or you could take 1 leek, 
slice lengthways and wash out any dirt, then drain and slice crossways. Sauté in  1 tablespoon butter over medium heat until wilted, then mix with the cooked bacon and parsley.
* Sprinkle a cup of your 
favourite cheese, grated, over the eggs before closing with the pastry lid.
* Buying two types of pastry 
is preferable; however, if you already have a few sheets of puff pastry in the freezer, then use 1 sheet for the base and 1 sheet for the lid. Shortcrust pastry is not a good substitute for the lid on the pie.
* Brushing the pie with egg 
yolk twice adds a very rich glaze to the lid, but if you are lacking time and eggs, just brush with milk and bake.
* Use offcuts of puff pastry 
to make small decorations on the lid of the pie before it goes into the oven.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 334Banana Bread
Makes 1 loaf
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 very ripe bananas
125 ml buttermilk1 teaspoon vanilla essence200 g caster sugar250 g self-raising flour
½ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon60 ml olive oil1 tablespoon butter
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. Grease a loaf tin with 
oil or butter.
2. Place the bananas in a bowl and mash until smooth. 
add the buttermilk and vanilla, and blend until well mixed.
3. combine the remaining dry ingedients in another 
bowl and mix until well blended. add to the banana and milk mixture. stir in the olive oil and mix thoroughly. Pour into the prepared tin.
4. Bake in the oven for 1 hour or until a small 
knife or metal skewer inserted in the centre comes out clean. allow to cool on the bench for 10 minutes before turning out onto a wire rack.
5. cool completely. keep refrigerated or frozen until 
needed. To serve, thickly slice the banana bread, melt the butter in a frying pan over medium heat and when bubbling, add the slices of banana bread. cook for  1 minute on each side or until golden.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
335* You will need— 21-cm x  
11-cm loaf tin, 2 bowls, 
fork, wooden spoon, weight, liquid and spoon measures and plastic spatula.
* Many recipes for banana 
bread ask for the butter and sugar to be beaten until pale and fluffy, then the eggs are added one at a time, then the flour and bananas are added. This method and the ingredients are really for a banana cake and although called banana bread, has the consistency of cake. The only difference being that it is baked in a loaf tin and not a cake tin. The idea of banana bread is that it is dry and more like a bread, and it needs to be toasted, usually in a pan with butter, to make it moist.
* For a dairy-free version, 
replace the buttermilk with soy milk or 
½ cup apple 
puree.
* Try adding ½ cup chopped 
walnuts or ½ cup sultanas to 
the recipe. Other nuts and dried fruit could be added in the quantity of 
½ cup.
* For a healthier option, 
replace the plain flour with wholemeal flour and caster sugar with soft brown sugar. Then use mixed spice instead of cinnamon, and yoghurt instead of buttermilk.
* Adding eggs to this recipe 
is optional. Lightly beat  2 eggs and stir into the batter for a different texture.
* Banana and chocolate are 
really good friends so try adding 
½ cup dark, milk or 
white chocolate buttons to the batter before baking.
* Fresh or frozen 
blueberries ( ½ cup) are 
delicious in this recipe.
* The banana bread, wrapped 
in foil, will last for  2 months in the freezer. Place in the fridge overnight to defrost.
* Bananas that are not being 
eaten and are starting to brown are ideal for baking. Keep overripe bananas in the freezer. To freeze bananas properly, peel and chop into 3-cm pieces, place on a tray lined with plastic wrap and freeze until solid. When frozen, place the banana into small clip lock bags and keep frozen until needed. Or simply peel and freeze as whole bananas.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 336Banana cake
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
125 g unsalted butter, softened
150 g caster sugar2 eggs, at room temperature2 very ripe bananas2 tablespoons sour cream1 teaspoon vanilla extract200 g self-raising flour1 teaspoon mixed spice or ground cinnamon
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Grease a round or 
springform cake tin with olive oil spray.
2. Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of an 
electric mixer and whip until pale and fluffy. add the eggs, one at a time, making sure the first egg is thoroughly combined before adding the second.
3. Place the bananas in a separate bowl and mash with 
a fork. Mix in the sour cream and vanilla.
4. use a wooden spoon to beat the banana mixture into 
the butter mixture.
5. sift the flour into the banana batter and stir until 
thoroughly combined. Pour into the prepared cake tin, place in the oven and bake for 55–60 minutes. check to make sure the cake is ready by piercing the centre with a metal or wooden skewer. if it comes out clean, remove from the oven to a wire rack; if still a bit sticky in the centre, give the cake an extra 5 minutes in the oven.
6. after 10 minutes cooling, turn out the cake onto 
the wire rack and cool completely before icing.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
337* You will need— 2 bowls, 
electric mixer, 24-cm round 
or springform cake tin, spoon and weight measures, wooden spoon, plastic spatula and wire rack.
* A classic addition to 
banana cake is walnuts. To the above recipe, add 150 g freshest walnuts, chopped roughly and added to the batter.
* A good cream cheese 
frosting is the best way to finish off this cake.
* Do not waste bananas 
when they are overripe or excessively brown. These can be frozen and used in banana cake and banana bread. To freeze bananas properly, peel, chop into 3-cm pieces, place on a tray lined with plastic wrap and freeze until solid. When frozen, place the banana into small clip lock bags and keep frozen until needed. Or simply peel and freeze as whole bananas.
* For a rich colour in the 
cake, substitute the caster sugar with dark brown sugar.
* For school lunches, spoon 
the mixture into muffin moulds and bake for half the time.
* Sour cream can be 
substituted with natural yogurt or pouring cream with 1 tablespoon lemon juice. If adding the lemon juice, why not grate the zest into the mixture before squeezing the juice.
* Try replacing half the 
sugar with pure maple syrup, and substitute the mixed spice with ground nutmeg.
* Banana is technically a 
berry and the tree on which it grows is technically a herb.
* To hasten the ripening of 
bananas, place in the sun or in a paper bag with a ripe apple (the slow release of ethylene from the apple will trigger ethylene production in the banana). If bananas are ripening too quickly, remove the skin and freeze. A small store of frozen bananas is handy for cakes, muffins or smoothies, or they can simply be blended while still frozen for an instant frozen dairy-free banana treat.
* Bananas can be kept in 
the fridge; the skin will go brown/black, but the flesh will retain its creamy yellow colour. Long-term storage in the fridge, however, can mean the flesh will begin to break down or decay from the inside out.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 338Basic Biscuits
Makes about 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g self-raising flour
25 g cornflour180 g caster sugar150 g butter or margarine, melted and cooled
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg, lightly beaten
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Grease a baking tray and 
line with baking paper.
2. sift the flours and sugar into a bowl then stir in 
the butter or margarine, vanilla and egg.
3. Place 1 teaspoonful of mixture on the prepared 
tray, and continue until the tray is full, allowing room for the biscuits to spread. you may need to bake in batches. With the first tray baked, you will be able to see how much they spread, so the second batch can be put closer together if need be.
4. cook for 12–15 minutes or until golden. spread onto 
a wire rack to cool and store in an airtight container for up to 14 days.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
339* You will need— 2 bowls, 
weight and spoon measures, 
wooden spoon, saucepan or microwave bowl to melt butter, sieve, baking tray and baking paper.
* The biscuit dough will 
last for 3– 5 days in the 
fridge, but if baking the dough straight from the fridge, allow 3– 5 minutes 
extra in the oven.
* Extra dough can be wrapped 
in plastic wrap, rolled into a log shape and frozen for 3 months. To use, peel back the plastic wrap and cut into 1-cm thick slices, place on a prepared baking tray and leave to defrost on the bench before baking.
* Another technique you 
could use with the same recipe is to whisk the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, add the egg and vanilla then stir in the sifted flours.
* There are so many 
combinations of flavours that can be added to this basic biscuit mixture. Try some of the following.
* For nut biscuits, add  
100 g freshest chopped nuts —
macadamias, walnuts, pecans, cashews, almonds or Brazils. Try adding the grated zest of 1 lemon or orange to the dough when adding the nuts.
* Roughly chop 50 g 
honeycomb or 80 g of your favourite chocolate bar and add to the basic mixture.
* Spread the biscuit mixture 
just a bit with the back of a spoon and dot with Smarties.
* For chocolate chip 
biscuits— stir 100 g dark, 
milk or white chocolate chips into the biscuit dough. Choc chips can be substituted with excellent quality cooking chocolate, chopped to the size of buttons. Try using soft brown sugar instead of caster sugar for a richer mixture.
* What’s the difference 
between choc chip, double choc chip and triple choc chip? Choc chip has just chocolate chips (see hint above). Double chocolate chip  
biscuits need 1 tablespoon Dutch cocoa mixed into the chocolate chip recipe above. Triple chocolate chip biscuits are double choc chip biscuits drizzled with melted chocolate. You will need about 50 g dark, milk or white cooking chocolate, melted in the top of a double boiler and drizzled over the cooled biscuits. Let the chocolate set hard before storing, if they even make it to storage.
* Chocolate and nut 
biscuits— add 75 g chopped 
peanuts or macadamias with 100 g chocolate buttons. Or, instead of chopped peanuts, add 2 tablespoons crunchy peanut butter and reduce the butter by 50 g.
* For strawberry shortcake—
Grease and line 2 x 20-cm cake tins with baking paper. Double the basic biscuit recipe above, divide between the prepared cake tins and bake for 12– 15 minutes or 
until golden. Cool. Prepare  4 cups strawberries (hulled and sliced) and whip  300 ml thickened cream with 
½ teaspoon vanilla extract 
and 2 tablespoons icing sugar. Place one of the shortcakes on a plate, spread a small amount of the whipped cream over the cake, top with half the strawberries then top with the second shortcake; dollop the remaining cream over the top then finish with the remaining strawberries.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 3404 eggs, lightly beaten
300 g plain flour2 teaspoons ground aniseed (optional)
150 g caster sugar300 g almonds, roughly choppedgrated zest of 2 lemons
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. Place all of the ingredients in a bowl and use a 
wooden spoon to mix to a smooth dough. Try not to over-work the dough.
3. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and roll the 
dough into 2 logs about 30 cm long and three fingers wide. Place on the prepared tray, leaving plenty of space between the logs as they will expand.
4. Place in the oven for 25 minutes. The dough should 
not take on too much colour.
5. remove and cool for 5 minutes. use a sharp serrated 
knife to carefully slice each log on the diagonal into individual biscotti about 5 mm thick.
6. Place the biscuits, cut side down, on the lined 
baking tray and bake for another 10 minutes, turning once. cool completely before storing in an airtight jar.Biscotti
Makes about 30xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
341* You will need— bowl, 
wooden spoon, weight and 
spoon measures, baking tray, baking paper, food processor (for the almonds) and grater.
* The ground aniseed adds 
a beautiful fragrance and sweetness to the biscotti and although similar in smell to star anise, it is in fact a different spice.
* For chocolate and almond 
biscotti— add 2 tablespoons 
Dutch cocoa, replace the aniseed with ground cinnamon, lessen the flour quantity by 50 g and substitute the lemon zest with that of 1 orange. Try replacing the almonds with roasted hazelnuts. To roast the hazelnuts and remove the skins— preheat 
the oven to 200ºC, roast the hazelnuts on a tray for  10 minutes or until the skins are flaking. Tip the nuts into a tea towel placed over a bowl, fold the edges over and let stand (steam) for 5 minutes, then rub well to remove as much skin as possible. Remove the nuts and chop coarsely.
* For espresso biscotti—
add 1 tablespoon espresso coffee and 50 g grated dark chocolate to the recipe.* For a lighter biscuit, 
substitute plain flour with self-raising flour.
* Be careful in the second 
stage of cooking because although the biscuits need to dry out, if they bake for too long (15– 20 minutes or even 
longer), prepare to break teeth.
* These biscuits will last 
for several weeks in an airtight container. After that biscotti will begin to go stale and the nuts will become slightly rancid.
* Serve with coffee, crème 
brulée or chocolate mousse.
* Biscotti, like almond 
bread, make an excellent 
homemade gift for family and friends at Christmas.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 342Carrot Cake
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract200 g grated carrot (about 4 carrots)80 g pecan nuts or walnuts, chopped250 g soft brown sugar180 ml vegetable oil220 g self-raising flour1 teaspoon ground cinnamon1 teaspoon mixed spice1 recipe quantity cream cheese frostingextra 50 g pecan nuts or walnuts, for topping
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Grease a springform cake 
tin or a loaf tin and line with baking paper.
2. combine the eggs, vanilla, carrot, chopped nuts, 
sugar and oil in a large bowl. sift in the flour, cinnamon and mixed spice. stir until well combined and pour into the prepared tin.
3. Place in the oven and bake for 55–60 minutes. The 
cake is ready when a skewer or small knife inserted in the centre comes out clean. if still a bit moist, give the cake an extra 5–10 minutes.
4. remove from the oven and cover the cake with a 
clean tea towel, to allow the steam to keep the cake moist. cool in the tin.
5. Turn the cake out onto a wire rack and spread the 
top and sides with frosting then sprinkle with the extra nuts. serve or store the cake in an airtight container in the refrigerator. for maximum flavour, allow the cake to come back to room temperature before serving.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
343* You will need— 20-cm 
springform cake tin or  
20-cm x 10-cm loaf tin, baking paper, large bowl, wooden spoon, grater, sieve, weight, liquid and spoon measures, plastic spatula and wire rack.
* Bake at 160ºC if using a 
fan-forced oven. This rule applies to all baking, drop the temperature by 20ºC when using a fan-forced oven. The cooking time stays the same.
* For mini carrot cakes for 
school lunch boxes, place the cake batter in muffin moulds and halve the cooking time.
* Try replacing the mixed 
spice with ground ginger or ground nutmeg.
* Double the recipe for 
frosting, slice the carrot cake in half horizontally, open up gently and spread the frosting in the centre of the cake, then put the top back on and frost the top and sides.
* Try adding the finely 
grated zest of 1 orange and  1 lemon to the mixture.
* For an even healthier 
option, use wholemeal self-raising flour instead of the white self-raising flour.* Some carrot cakes are 
presented with little carrot-like garnishes around the top of the cake; here’s how to make them. You will need 100 g marzipan (almond paste), and red, yellow and green food colouring. Divide the marzipan in half, and knead in small amounts of food coloring, so they match the colours of the carrots (red and yellow combined for the carrot and green for the carrot tops). Roll the orange-coloured marzipan into a ball the size of a large pea, then roll one side of the ball into the tapered shape of a carrot. With a toothpick, poke a hole in the larger end for the green carrot tops. Make the tops by rolling one small piece of green marzipan into  3 tiny, thin strings. Pinch them together at one end and insert that end into the hole at the top of the carrot. If the stem is a bit loose, then use the toothpick to push the carrot top snugly around the stem. Use a small sharp knife and press small indentations along the length of the carrot, place around the outer edge of the cake with the tip of the carrot facing the middle of the cake.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 344Cheese twists
Makes about 10–12 twists
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 sheets frozen puff pastry, defrosted
¼ cup grated parmesan cheese
¼ cup grated cheddar cheese
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
¼ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon ground cayenne pepper or paprika
1 large egg, lightly beatenplain flour, for dusting
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc. line 3 large baking 
trays with baking paper.
2. Mix the cheeses, oil, oregano, salt and cayenne 
pepper or paprika in a bowl. stir well to combine.
3. Place 1 sheet of puff pastry on a lightly floured 
surface and brush with the egg. spread most of the cheese mixture over the pastry sheet.
4. lay the second pastry sheet over the cheese 
mixture and sprinkle with a small amount of flour. use a rolling pin to gently press the layers together without rolling out of shape.
5. Brush the top with more beaten egg and sprinkle 
with the remaining cheese. Press the cheese into the dough slightly.
6. use a sharp kitchen knife to cut into 1.5-cm 
strips.
7. one at a time, grab each strip at either end and 
twist in opposite directions to form a spiral.
8. Transfer to the prepared baking trays. Place in the 
oven and bake until golden and puffed, about 10–12 minutes.
9. remove from the oven and cool before serving or 
storing in an airtight container.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
345* You will need— 3 baking 
trays, baking paper, bowl, 
fork, cutting board, cook’s knife, pastry brush, rolling pin and spoon and cup measures.
* Cheese twists are one 
of the great after-school snacks, if only more people would make them. They are so easy if using pre-made, frozen puff pastry, there really is no excuse for not giving them a go.
* Twisting the filled pastry 
is just one way to make a tasty snack. An even easier —
yet less impressive— way is 
to simply cut out the shapes and bake as is.
* To make ahead— follow 
the recipe to the point of twisting the strips (step 7). Place on the prepared baking tray, and brush with the egg mixture and freeze. When frozen, transfer to a clip lock bag and seal. Place back in the freezer for up to 1 month. To bake, preheat the oven to 200°C. Place the frozen strips on a baking tray lined with baking paper. Bake for 15 minutes or until golden.
* Other dried herbs which 
can be used include basil, mixed herbs or thyme.* For extra kick— sprinkle 
with chilli flakes or cayenne pepper, but be sure to let everyone know which ones are likely to bite.
* The cheese suggested in 
this recipe is only a guide —
try using gruyère, gouda, Swiss, tasty, mozzarella or blue cheese. Use as a single flavour or mix two flavours together.
* Finely chopped anchovies, 
black olives, capers, ham or salami can make their way into the filling to make a pizza-style twist— just make 
sure the ingredients are finely chopped (maybe use a food processor).
* Serve alongside your 
favourite dips for a light snack or party food.
* Use a pizza cutter to cut 
the strips.
* You can make sweet  
twists using a mixture of  1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, 
½ cup caster sugar and  
½ cup ground almonds; 
sprinkle between the sheets of pastry and continue as for cheese twists.
* Serve as part of an 
antipasto platter with prosciutto wrapped around the twists.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 346ChoColate brownies
Makes about 24
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g dark cooking 
chocolate
250 g unsalted butter
5 eggs500 g caster sugar1 tablespoon vanilla 
essence
200 g plain flour
½ teaspoon salt
 
* You will need— large slice 
tray or 2 smaller trays, 
baking paper, heatproof bowl, saucepan, electric mixer and bowl, plastic spatula and spoon and weight measures.
* Brownies are served as 
a snack on their own with coffee or tea but are equally popular as a dessert with whipped cream or ice-cream—or both. And then there’s the blondie.* For blondies— simply 
replace the dark chocolate with white chocolate. Melt  200 g white chocolate with the butter; and chop 50 g white chocolate and stir through the mixture with the flour. Cook until browned on top, about 35 minutes. Although called a blondie, they are a very pale caramel colour; blondie refers to the colour of the chocolate before it is cooked.
* For chocolate nut 
brownies— add 100 g pecans, 
walnuts, macadamias, Brazils, pistachios or peanuts when stirring in the flour.
* Once cooled, cover with 
a chocolate frosting or a chocolate cream— heat  
150 ml thickened cream, remove from the heat and stir through 200 g chopped dark, milk or white cooking chocolate. Continue to stir (off the heat) until the chocolate has completely melted in the cream and pour over the brownie. Chill before slicing. If heated, the chocolate cream melts and becomes a sauce.Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc . lightly grease and line a 
large slice tray with baking paper (see h ints and tips).
2. Place the chocolate and butter in a heatproof bowl 
over a saucepan of simmering water. reduce the heat to the lowest setting. When melted, set aside to cool slightly.
3. Beat the eggs, sugar and vanilla with an electric 
mixer for about 10 minutes or until light and fluffy.
4. Beat in the cooled chocolate, sift in the flour and 
salt and stir until well-combined.
5. Pour into the prepared tin, place in the oven and 
bake for about 35 minutes. a skewer inserted in the centre should come out with some mixture still on it. remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack; if it drops in the centre and forms a crust then you have 
just made the perfect chocolate brownie. serve or store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 10 days. Brownies freeze well for 3 months.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 347-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------ChoColate CraCkles
Makes 24
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— tray, 
cupcake paper cases, bowl, 
saucepan, sieve, cup, spoon and weight measures and wooden spoon or plastic spatula.
* Try adding 75 g sultanas 
to the mixture or 60 g desiccated coconut (or both).
* Copha is a brand name of 
solidified coconut oil. It is used also in white Christmas (see below) as well as for thinning chocolate. Classed as a vegetable shortening, it could be used in Christmas pudding as a vegetarian or vegan alternative to suet (animal fat). Copha is not available outside Australia so if necessary look for a brand of solid coconut oil or vegetable shortening.* Rice Bubbles are known as 
Rice Crispies in the United States. Brand names aside, any brand of crispy puffed rice will do. The softer, healthier puffed rice will never work as well, becoming quite soggy when the melted copha is added.
* Chocolate crackles are 
popular at school fetes and children’s birthday parties—it’s always interesting to note how many parents sneak one (to appease the inner child).* For white Christmas— mix 
1 cup each of milk powder, desiccated coconut, pure icing sugar and sultanas in a bowl and add 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Melt  250 g copha and stir into the mixture. When thoroughly combined, press into a baking paper-lined tray and set in the refrigerator. Cut into squares.150 g pure icing sugar
3 tablespoons cocoa powder4 cups r ice Bubbles
250 g CophaMethod:
1. spread 24 cupcake paper cases on a tray.2. sift together the icing sugar and cocoa. add the 
rice Bubbles and mix well.
3. Melt the copha in a saucepan, pour over the dry 
ingredients and mix together.
4. spoon into paper cases and refrigerate. When set, 
serve or store in an airtight container in the fridge.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 348-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------ChoColate fudge
Here are two recipes for chocolate fudge. The first is a traditional recipe that 
requires a deft hand to make the sugar syrup; the second recipe is far easier and is the preferred method for beginner cooks and for making decent fudge for school fetes.
 
* You will need— 20-cm 
square cake tin, baking 
paper, sieve, weight, liquid and spoon measures, sugar thermometer, electric mixer or whisk and saucepan.
* If using a sugar 
thermometer, the bulb of the thermometer should not rest on the bottom of the pan as the metal of the pan is decidedly hotter than the sugar syrup.
* To test for soft ball 
stage without a thermometer—fill a cup with cold water. Spoon a small amount of the boiling sugar syrup into the cold water. If the syrup forms a soft ball in the water that flattens when removed, it has reached soft ball stage. Quickly remove the syrup from the heat and add the butter and vanilla.
* If the syrup cooks beyond 
soft ball stage and into hard ball stage, then the fudge will set very hard and possibly be grainy in texture.ChoColate fudge 1
Makes 20 pieces
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. lightly grease a 20-cm square cake tin with oil.2. sift the cocoa into a large, heavy-based saucepan 
and add the sugar. stir in the milk and bring to the boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Boil, without stirring, until the mixture reaches soft ball stage (see Hints and tips)—110ºc/230°f on a sugar thermometer. remove from heat.
3. add the butter and vanilla, but do not stir. allow 
the mixture to cool, at room temperature, until it reaches 45ºc/110°f. Beat with a whisk or an electric mixer until the mixture thickens and loses its gloss. Quickly transfer to the prepared tin and spread evenly. leave to harden at room temperature before cutting into squares.80 g Dutch cocoa powder800 g caster sugar375 ml milk60 g butter1 teaspoon vanilla extractCakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
349ChoColate fudge 2
Makes 16 pieces
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
 
* You will need— heatproof 
bowl, weight measure, 
saucepan, baking paper, and a 20-cm square cake tin.
* This makes quite a dark 
fudge. Use 250 g dark chocolate to tone down the big flavour or use a quality milk or 450 g white chocolate as a substitute.400 g quality dark  
chocolate, chopped
395 g can sweetened  
condensed milk
80 g butterMethod:
1. Lightly grease a 20-cm square cake tin. Line the 
base and sides with baking paper.
2. Combine all of the ingredients in a large heatproof 
bowl over a saucepan of gently simmering water. stir for 5 minutes or until smooth.
3. Pour the fudge into the prepared tin and spread 
evenly. refrigerate until the fudge is firm.
4. Place a cook’s knife in hot water, dry and cut the 
fudge into small squares. keep the fudge chilled in an airtight container.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 350CoConut iCe
I have included two decisive and very different styles of recipe for the one  
sweet treat.
CoConut iCe 1
Makes 20 piecesxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
125 g copha  
(see Hints and tips)
400 g pure icing sugar,  
sifted
250 g desiccated coconut
2 egg whites1 teaspoon vanilla essencefew drops of pink  
food colouringMethod:
1. Grease a rectangular slice tray and line with 
baking paper.
2. Place all of the ingredients in a bowl and mix well.3. Divide the mixture between 2 bowls and add the pink 
food colouring to one.
4. Press the white mixture evenly into the base of the 
prepared tray. Top with the pink mixture, and press firmly and evenly. refrigerate for at least 1 hour then cut into 3-cm squares or triangles.3 cups pure icing sugar,  
sifted
3
½ cups desiccated  
coconut
395 g can condensed milk1 teaspoon vanilla essenceabout 6 drops of pink  
food colouring
CoConut iCe 2
Makes 20 piecesxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Method:
1. Grease a rectangular slice tray and line with 
baking paper.
2. Melt the copha in a small saucepan or in the 
microwave—do not make too hot.
3. combine the icing sugar and coconut in a bowl. add 
the egg whites, vanilla and copha and mix thoroughly. Place half the mixture into a separate bowl and colour with a few drops of pink colouring.
4. Press the white mixture evenly into the base of the 
tray. Top with the pink mixture, and press firmly and evenly. refrigerate for at least 1 hour then cut into 3-cm squares or triangles.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
351* You will need— 20-cm x 
30-cm rectangular slice 
tray, baking paper, small saucepan, wooden spoon or plastic spatula, cup, spoon and weight measures, knife and 2 bowls.
* The biggest difference 
between the recipes is the use of condensed milk, copha and egg whites. The first recipe relies on condensed milk as its setting ingredient, while the second recipe uses copha and egg whites to set the coconut ice.
* Both recipes work equally 
well but have different textures when set— it then 
comes down to personal preference and how you remembered it as a kid.
* The amount of colouring is 
also a point of contention. Some argue that the brighter the pink, the more it resembles the commercially made stuff and the greater the appeal. True lovers of coconut ice prefer a softer shade of pink to represent that it is homemade.
* The use of raw egg whites 
is of concern for the health conscious and for vegans—recipe 1 wins out every time.* It is really important 
to check the use-by date on the desiccated coconut. Do not be tempted to make coconut ice with a bag you discovered in the darkest corner of the pantry. Coconut is high in oil, which goes rancid over time. The fresher the product, the better the outcome.
* Dessicated coconut is best 
stored in the fridge not the pantry.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 352CupCakes
Makes 24
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 g self-raising flour200 g unsalted butter, softened200 g caster sugar3 eggs1 teaspoon vanilla essence2 tablespoons milk
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line 24 muffin moulds 
with paper cupcake cases. or simply place the paper cases on a baking tray.
2. sift the flour into a mixing bowl and add all the 
other ingredients. use an electric mixer to slowly incorporate the ingredients. Beat for 5 minutes or until light and fluffy.
3. spoon the mixture into the paper cases until  
three-quarters full. Place in the oven and bake for  20 minutes or until golden on top and the cakes spring back when lightly pressed.
4. remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack. Top 
with icing (see hints and tips), butter frosting or butter cream.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
353* You will need— bowl, 
sieve, weight and spoon 
measures, electric mixer, plastic spatula, muffin tray and baking tray.
* If the cupcakes are 
crumbly in texture, the mixture may not have been beaten for long enough to make it light and fluffy (minimum 3 minutes and no more than 5 minutes), or the oven was too low in temperature, in which case increase by 10ºC next time.
* Over-beating the mixture 
can cause the cupcakes to rise in the middle too much, making icing difficult.
* Store unfrosted or un-iced 
cupcakes overnight at room temperature, for up to  1 week in the fridge, or once cool freeze immediately for  2 months. Add the frosting just before serving. If needed for the next morning, make the cakes and frosting the night before and keep separate, then ice the cakes in the morning so the icing doesn’t become too sticky.
* Basic icing for cakes— 
250 g pure icing sugar, few drops of vanilla essence, 1 tablespoon hot water. Mix the icing sugar, vanilla and water to form a thick paste. Place over a saucepan of simmering water and stir until the mixture is spreadable. Ice the cakes and set aside. Adding more water to the initial mixture softens the mixture too much and makes it runny.
* Some recipes may call for 
the butter and cream to be beaten until light and fluffy, the eggs added one at a time, then the flour, vanilla and milk are folded in until well mixed. This method works just as well but takes a bit longer.
* Try the following cupcake 
flavours.
* Orange cupcakes— add 
the zest of 2 oranges and substitute the milk with orange juice and continue as per the method given.
* Chocolate cupcakes— add 2 
tablespoons cocoa powder and increase the milk by  1 tablespoon.
* For something quite 
different, try filling square-based ice-cream cones three-quarters full with the cake batter and bake for the requested time. Then frost and decorate.
* Decorating is limited only 
by the imagination. As well as the icing or frosting (and any colouring added), there are the sprinkles, silver balls, and the vast array of lollies to make the cakes suit any party.
* For school lunch boxes, it 
may be a better idea to cut the cakes through the middle and place the icing on one cut side, then sandwich the cake halves together.
* If making mini cupcakes, 
reduce the cooking time to  10 minutes.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 354Devil’s fooD cake
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 g self-raising flour
50 g Dutch cocoa powder
¼ teaspoon salt
125 g unsalted butter, softened300 g caster sugar250 ml milk2 large eggs, at room temperature, lightly beaten1 teaspoon vanilla extract1 recipe quantity devil’s chocolate frosting
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c. lightly grease and flour 
2 round cake tins and line the bases with baking paper.
2. sift the flour, cocoa and salt once and sift again 
into a mixing bowl. add the butter and mix on low speed with an electric mixer for 1 minute, or until the ingredients are combined and the butter is broken down into very small pieces. add the sugar and mix until combined.
3. add half the milk and beat on low speed for  
1 minute. scrape down the sides of the bowl. slowly add the remaining milk, the eggs and vanilla and beat on low speed. again scrape down the sides of the bowl and beat for 1 minute longer or until velvety smooth.
4. Pour the batter into the prepared tins. Place  
on the middle shelf in the oven and bake for  25–30 minutes, or until the cake begins to shrink away from the side of the tin and a skewer inserted in the centre comes out clean.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 355 
* You will need— 2 x 20-cm 
cake tins, electric mixer 
and bowl, liquid, weight and spoon measures, palette knife and plastic spatula.
* Once iced, devil’s food 
cake should be consumed that day. Keep leftover cake covered at room temperature for another day at most before it turns stale.
* Devil’s food cake can have 
2 or even 4 layers with the frosting in between and then swirled all over.
* The preference for plain 
flour for this recipe is common. Substitute the 200 g self-raising flour with 200 g plain flour (known as all-purpose flour in the United States) or better still 150 g plain flour and 50 g cornflour (to resemble what the American cooks call ‘cake flour’) then add 1 teaspoon baking powder and 
¼ teaspoon 
bicarbonate of soda. Sift twice and follow the recipe.
* Half of the milk can be 
replaced with strong instant coffee or espresso coffee.
* The batter may appear too 
thin but continue— all will 
be fine.
* Try beating the softened 
butter and sugar until light and fluffy, add the eggs one at a time, then turn the mixer down to low and add the vanilla, flour and cocoa. Lastly add the milk and continue to mix for 1– 2 
minutes until thoroughly combined. Pour into the cake tins and cook as prescribed.
* Devil’s food cake is a 
stark contrast to angel food cake (or just ‘angel cake’). Chocolate and butter reign supreme in the devil’s version while the angel is a light egg white and vanilla-based cake that resembles a sponge or chiffon cake.Method cont.
5. remove the cakes from the oven and run a spatula 
or small knife around the edges to loosen the cakes from the sides of the tins so they don’t tear as they shrink during cooling. Finish cooling the cakes to room temperature in their tins. turn out the cooled cakes and peel off the baking paper just before frosting (making sure to frost only when the cakes are completely cool).
6. Once the cakes have cooled, dollop the frosting 
onto one cake and roughly and evenly spread it to the edges of the cake. top with the second cake and spread the remaining frosting on the top and sides. a wispy, somewhat messy top is traditional, but feel free to smooth the frosting with a palette knife dipped in hot water.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 356Flourless chocolate cake
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
125 g unsalted butter
200 g quality dark chocolate4 large eggs, separated225 g caster sugarpinch of salt250 g almond meal
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc. line a springform cake 
tin with baking paper.
2. Place the butter and chocolate in a heatproof bowl 
over a saucepan of gently simmering water. remove from the heat and set aside to cool to room temperature.
3. Beat the egg yolks with about three-quarters of the 
sugar until light and creamy.
4. in a clean, dry bowl, beat the whites, salt and the 
remaining sugar until soft peaks form.
5. stir the yolk mixture and the almond meal into the 
chocolate mixture. Then fold in the egg whites.
6. Pour into the prepared tin and bake for 1 hour or 
until a skewer inserted in the centre comes out clean.
7. remove from the oven and cool. serve with cream and 
fresh berries. This cake will last for 1 week in an airtight container in the refrigerator.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
357* You will need— 22-cm 
springform cake tin, 2 bowls, 
saucepan, set of measuring scales, wooden spoon and wire rack.
* This gluten-free cake that 
is perfect for coeliacs is enjoyed around the world by lovers of chocolate cake. Its rich, moist texture makes it ideal as a dessert. Try replacing the almond meal with 250 g gluten-free muesli— blitz the muesli in 
a food processor to resemble the consistency of the almond meal.
* This style of cake tends 
to collapse in the middle when cooling. This is normal as there is no flour to give the cake body. Body is not important— rich, moist and 
chocolatey are the order of the day.
* Reduce the sugar to 100 g. 
This will soften the texture of the crust. The larger proportion of sugar will give the baked cake a crunchy ‘brownie’ top.
* Although the recipe asks 
for a springform cake tin, it can be cooked in a regular cake tin. A springform tin simply ensures that the cake doesn’t get damaged when turning out. However, as long as the base of a regular cake tin is greased and lined with baking paper, there shouldn’t be too much trouble. Remember to let the cake cool completely in the tin to allow it to shrink, making removal easier.
* A different technique with 
some added ingredients will produce only a slightly different outcome. Try breaking or chopping up the dark chocolate into pieces and placing into the bowl of a food processor. Pulse the chocolate until it begins to break up into smaller bits, then add the sugar and blitz until the chocolate and  sugar turn into an even, sandy grain. Slowly add  175 ml hot coffee (instant or espresso) into the chocolate sugar mixture and blitz until the chocolate is melted. Add the butter and 1 tablespoon cocoa powder, and pulse to combine. Add the eggs and vanilla, and process until smooth. The batter will be a smooth liquid. Pour into the prepared tin and bake as per the instructions given.
* Try adding 1 teaspoon 
ground cinnamon to enhance the chocolate flavour.
* Try adding 1 tablespoon 
coffee liqueur or instant coffee to the recipe. Coffee has a natural affinity with chocolate and enhances the flavour of the cake.
* As a dessert, drizzle with 
chocolate sauce and serve warm with whipped cream, double cream or a dollop of mascarpone cheese.
* As a cake, top with 
devil’s chocolate frosting, or simply dust with drinking cocoa or icing sugar.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 358Flourless orange cake
Serves 10–12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 large oranges (or 3 small– medium size)
250 g caster sugar
300 g almond meal4 large eggs1 teaspoon gluten-free baking powder
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. Grease a springform cake 
tin and line with baking paper.
2. Place the oranges in a saucepan and cover with 
plenty of water. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat  to low and simmer for 1 hour. Drain the oranges, place back in the saucepan and cover again with cold water. Bring back to the boil, then simmer for 1 more hour, checking the water level and topping up if need be. Drain and cool. Break the oranges open over a bowl and remove any seeds.
3. combine the oranges (skin included) and the 
remaining ingredients in a food processor and process until smooth; scrape down the sides of the bowl and puree for 1 minute more.
4. Pour into the prepared cake tin and bake for  
1 hour. Test by inserting a skewer into the centre of the cake—it’s ready if it comes out clean. if the cake is still pasty in the centre, cook for 5 minutes longer. allow to cool in the tin before turning out. serve or store in an airtight container, refrigerated, for 7 days.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
359* You will need— 22-cm 
springform cake tin, baking 
paper, bowl, food processor, saucepan, wooden spoon, plastic spatula, weight and spoon measures and wire rack.
* Another gluten-free—
coeliac-friendly— cake. See 
also flourless chocolate cake.
* The oranges tend to float 
in the water instead of being covered, so top with a round piece of baking paper and weigh down slightly with a small plate or saucer when the water is turned down to a simmer.
* A faster way to cook the 
oranges is to place them in a microwave-safe bowl, and cover with water and plastic wrap. Microwave for 20 minutes on high, pierce with a skewer which should have little resistance when inserted (cook an extra 1– 2 
minutes if still too firm) then strain and cool.
* Removing the seeds is not 
entirely necessary but it makes the cake less bitter.
* Make an orange syrup 
cake—combine 200 ml orange 
juice and 200 g caster sugar in a small saucepan and bring to the boil, stirring constantly, until the sugar dissolves. Pour over the cake and stand for 4 hours before serving. Orange syrup cake is a popular Middle Eastern treat.
* For a flourless orange 
and poppy seed cake,  add 
½ cup poppy seeds to the 
cake mixture. To make a regular orange and poppy seed cake, place the following ingredients in a mixing bowl—150 g softened unsalted 
butter, 200 g caster sugar, zest and juice of 2 oranges, 3 eggs, 200 g self-raising flour, and 100 ml milk. Beat until light in colour, stir in 
½ cup poppy seeds and 
pour into a prepared cake tin. Bake for 35– 40 minutes 
or until the centre springs back when gently pressed. Cool and top with orange frosting.
* If almond meal (ground 
almonds) is unavailable, then use blanched almonds and a little sugar and process in a food processor until very fine. The sugar stops the almonds from getting too oily and becoming a paste.
* Serve with natural 
yoghurt, whipped cream or ice-cream.
* Or try mixing 250 g 
mascarpone with 125 g icing sugar, 2 tablespoons orange marmalade and a few drops of orange flower water, then spread over the cooled cake.
* Top with orange frosting.
* If strictly gluten-free, 
check the ingredients list on the baking powder, it is often made with wheat starch. Gluten-free baking powder is available at the supermarket and is labelled clearly.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 360Friands
Makes 10–12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
180 g butter
150 g almond meal200 g pure icing sugar, sifted55 g plain flour or gluten-free rice flour5 egg whites1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest,100 g blueberries
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 220ºc. lightly grease 10–12 
friand or muffin moulds.
2. Melt the butter in a saucepan over medium heat and 
cook until it starts to turn pale golden brown. set aside to cool slightly.
3. Place the almond meal, icing sugar and flour in a 
mixing bowl, then add the unbeaten egg whites and lemon zest and mix well. add the browned butter and mix thoroughly.
4. fill the prepared moulds no more than three-
quarters full. Top each with a few blueberries. Place onto a baking tray and bake in the oven for 5 minutes; then reduce the oven to 180ºc and bake for a further 10–15 minutes.
5. remove from the oven and leave the friands for 
about 5 minutes before turning out. serve with a dusting of sifted icing sugar over the top. These friands keep well for 3–5 days in an airtight container. freeze for 2 months.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
361* You will need— friand 
moulds or muffin tray, bowl, 
sieve, saucepan, wooden spoon or plastic spatula, weight and spoon measures and wire rack.
* The browning of the butter 
is important as it creates a beautiful nutty flavour in the friands.
* Friands, also known as 
‘financiers’, are a typical French pastry cake or light tea cake. Financiers are usually baked in small rectangular-based moulds while friands are baked in small oval-based moulds.
* The oven is set to very 
hot to get the characteristic ‘explosion’ in the middle of the friand, then the heat is turned down to cook through the little cakes properly.
* The recipe provided is 
made with blueberries, probably the most common way to have them. Other flavours that work well include: pecan nut and maple syrup— 100 g pecan nuts (chopped),  200 ml maple syrup (to replace the 200 g icing sugar recipe); orange and poppy seed—zest of 2 oranges and 
2 tablespoons poppy seeds); raspberry— 100 g; and 
chocolate chip— 150 g grated 
chocolate or buttons.* Frozen blueberries or 
raspberries are ideal for this recipe and should be added to the mixture straight from the freezer. If a ‘ripple’ effect is wanted, then defrost the berries and stir into the mixture before baking.
* A few drops of almond 
essence can be added to the mixture as well as sprinkling some almond flakes on the top before baking— leave out 
the fruit and zest— to make 
double almond friands.
* Friands could be topped 
with basic frosting and a fresh berry.
* Friand moulds are 
available at quality kitchenware shops and are sold as individual moulds  or as trays in groups of  6 or 12.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 362Fruit cake
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
400 g sultanas
250 g currants250 g raisins150 g pitted prunes, chopped100 g dried figs, chopped150 g glacé cherries100 g mixed candied peel250 ml dark sherry (Pedro Ximenez) or brandy250 g unsalted butter, at room temperature275 g dark brown sugar5 eggs, at room temperature400 g plain flour2 teaspoons mixed spice200 g macadamia nuts, choppedgrated zest of 1 orangegrated zest of 1 lemon
Method:
1. Place all the dried fruits, cherries and candied 
peel in a bowl. Mix in the sherry or brandy, cover and refrigerate overnight or for 2 days.
2. Next day, preheat the oven to 150°c. lightly grease 
a cake tin and line the base and sides with a double layer of baking paper (grease in-between the layers of paper to help them stick together), making sure the paper protrudes 5 cm above the rim of the tin. Wrap a sheet of folded newspaper or brown paper around the outside of the tin to match the height of the baking paper and secure with cooking string. Place 5 layers of newspaper on a baking tray.
3. cream the butter and sugar on high speed until 
light and fluffy. add the eggs, one at a time, beating well between each addition.
4. sift the flour and mixed spice directly into the 
butter mixture. Mix with a wooden spoon and stir in the marinated fruit, nuts and zest.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 363 
 
* You will need— large bowl, 
spoon, liquid and weight measures, sieve, wooden spoon, 23-cm cake tin, cooking string, baking paper, baking tray, plastic spatula, electric mixer, foil and wire rack.
* This is not just a fruit 
cake but also a Christmas cake—decorate with whole 
almonds, place on top of the cake batter once poured into the prepared cake tin.
* To keep extra moist and 
naughty, sprinkle  1 tablespoon brandy or sherry over the cake every 2 weeks while in storage.
* Pedro Ximenez is a very 
rich, sweet, sticky, Spanish sherry and is optional. A sweet sherry, quality brandy or amaretto happily replace the Spanish sherry.
* It’s important to have the 
eggs at room temperature so the mixture doesn’t curdle.
* For an iced Christmas 
cake—use a good quality 
marzipan (about 500 g) and roll out, then lift carefully onto the cake, easing it around the sides. Trim off the excess with a small knife. Allow to dry overnight before decorating. Use pre-made ‘ready-to-roll’ icing for a quicker, easier cake covering. Roll out on icing sugar. Brush the marzipan-coated cake with sherry, and cover with the rolled-out icing. Smooth the top and sides of the cake with a metal spatula.
* Use silver balls and extra 
ready-to-roll icing cut into star shapes and dried until hard to decorate the cake. And then there is the  holly ...Method cont.
5. add the mixture to the prepared tin, levelling and 
smoothing the top with the back of a spoon. Place on the prepared baking tray and transfer to the middle shelf of the oven. Bake for about 3 hours.
6. Check the cake after 2
½ hours—insert a skewer 
into the centre of the cake: if it comes out clean, 
then the cake is done; if not cook for the full time. if the cake starts to get too dark on top, cover with a piece of foil.
7. remove from the oven, and leave the cake to cool in 
the tin on a wire rack. When cold, turn the cake out of the tin and remove the first layer of baking paper, leaving one layer on the cake. Wrap in foil and store in a cool, dark place for up to 3 months.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 364Fruit mince pies
Makes 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Fruit Mince
3 Granny s mith apples, peeled and grated
250 g raisins, chopped250 g sultanas250 g currants125 g candied mixed peel125 g dried apricots, finely chopped125 g dried figs, finely chopped100 g slivered almonds, chopped200 g soft brown sugar2 tablespoons honey2 teaspoons mixed spice2 teaspoons ground cinnamonzest and juice of 3 oranges100 g suet or solidified vegetable oil, grated100 ml orange liqueur or brandy
1 recipe quantity shortcrust pastry
sifted icing sugar, for dusting
Method:
1. combine all of the fruit mince ingredients in a 
large bowl and mix well. Place in the fridge for  1 week, stir occasionally.
2. for the mince pies— preheat oven to 180ºc. lightly 
grease a patty pan tray.
3. rest the pastry in the fridge for 1 hour, roll out 
on a lightly floured surface until 3 mm thick. cut out 12 rounds and place into the patty pan moulds.
4. Place tablespoons of fruit mince into each pastry 
case. roll out the scraps of pastry on a lightly floured surface, and cut into desired shapes (e.g. stars). Brush each pastry shape with egg and place shape, egg side down, on the fruit mince.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 365 
* You will need— equipment 
to make the shortcrust 
pastry, cutting board, cook’s knife or food processor (to chop the dried fruit), weight, spoon and liquid measures, large bowl, wooden spoon, 12-hole shallow patty pan tray and pastry brush.
* The recipe for fruit mince 
makes about 2 kg. Leftover mince can be stored in sterilised jars for several months. Leftover fruit mince can be used in fruit cake.
* Fruit mince can be bought 
pre-made in the supermarket, so too can the shortcrust pastry (frozen in sheets). So if strapped for time, use one or the other and follow the baking method above.
* Suet or solidified 
vegetable oil is available in supermarkets near the butter and margarine section. I find melting the suet and pouring it into the mixture at room temperature is far less messy than grating (same for Christmas pudding).
* There are so many 
different dried fruits available today that it is just a matter of taste as to which fruit is in and which can stay on the supermarket shelf. For a more tropical taste, look into using dried papaya and pineapple instead of apricots and figs.
* Try drying your own fruit 
using a dehydrator, then chop the fruit and add to the mixture.
* Add chopped walnuts, pecan 
nuts or macadamia nuts to the mixture.Method cont.
5. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, or until lightly 
browned. Cool and lightly dust with icing sugar before serving. store the cooked fruit mince pies for 1 week in an airtight container.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 366GinGerbread people
Makes about 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
450 g self-raising flour
¼ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
½ teaspoon ground allspice
125 g unsalted butter, at room temperature125 g soft brown sugar1 large egg160 ml molasses
Method:
1. sift the flour, salt and spices into a large bowl. 
set aside.
2. cream the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. 
add the egg and molasses and beat until well combined. 
3. use a wooden spoon to stir in the flour mixture, 
working until thoroughly mixed.
4. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 
at least 2–3 hours.
5. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line 2 baking trays with 
baking paper.
6. lightly flour the work surface, cut the dough in 
half and roll out the dough to 6–7 mm thick. use a person-shaped cutter to cut through the dough. With a flat spatula or egg flip, lift the dough onto the prepared baking trays and place about 5 cm apart. Bake for 12 minutes depending on the size and thickness. They are ready when firm to touch and the edges are just starting to colour.
7. remove from the oven and cool on the baking trays 
for about 2 minutes. Then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely before decorating.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
367* You will need— bowl, 
electric mixer, wooden spoon, 
weight, liquid and spoon measures, baking tray, baking paper, person-shaped biscuit cutter, flat spatula or egg flip and wire rack.
* It may appear that I’m 
being politically correct in using the term ‘people’ when we all grew up with them being called ‘gingerbread men’. This is not a political statement because 1. They never did look very manly, and 2. There is nothing attached to the biscuit to suggest that it is either masculine OR feminine— so 
people is fine.
* To avoid the molasses 
sticking to the measuring jug or cup, lightly grease with oil before measuring and the molasses will easily pour out with little, if any, residue.
* These biscuits are great 
for hanging or as a gift. Make a hole at the top of each biscuit with a straw before they go into the oven. Then when cold, hang with ribbon or attach gift cards to the holes.
* Try pressing currants, 
silver or coloured balls (also known as ‘cachous’) or lollies into the biscuits for eyes and buttons as soon as they come from the oven and are still very warm. If the biscuits have gone cold and you wish to decorate them, use some icing mixture as a glue to attach the eyes and buttons.
* The unbaked biscuit dough 
will last for 2 days wrapped in the refrigerator before it starts to discolour. Or freeze for up to 3 months—defrost overnight in the fridge before rolling out.
* The nutmeg in this recipe 
can be replaced with ground cloves— the spice often 
associated with this recipe.
* The colouring of the 
biscuit is determined by the sugar (white or brown) and the molasses content. Some recipes replace half the molasses with water and use white sugar instead of soft brown sugar, resulting in a biscuit that is quite a pale beige colour.
* Molasses can be 
substituted with treacle or golden syrup; however, the flavour and colour are not as strong.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 368HedgeHog
Makes about 20 pieces
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g unsalted butter
250 g caster sugar60 g desiccated coconut60 g cocoa powder450 g plain sweet biscuits3 eggs, lightly beaten1 recipe quantity 
chocolate icing
 
* You will need— saucepan,  
2 bowls, wooden spoon, 20-cm 
x 30-cm slice tray and baking paper.
* When breaking up the 
biscuits, break half into large chunks and the other half into finer crumbs.
* Lining the tray with 
baking paper makes it easier to remove the slice when set and topped with icing. Just make sure there is some overhang to grab onto for lifting out.
* Try adding 100 g chopped 
nuts to the recipe— walnuts, pecans and macadamias are the most popular for this recipe.
* Add ½ cup chopped glacé 
cherries to the mixture.
* Keep refrigerated for  
3 days, the biscuits then begin to lose their crunch.
* Plain sweet biscuits can 
be substituted with gingernut biscuits, sweet digestive biscuits or even chocolate, but changing the biscuit will change the flavour of the slice.
* You could also try icing 
the slice with ½ the recipe 
quantity of devil’s chocolate frosting.* Instead of icing the 
hedgehog, simply sprinkle with extra coconut and press into the slice to make it stick.Method:
1. lightly grease or line a slice tray with baking 
paper.
2. Place the butter, sugar, coconut and cocoa in a 
saucepan, bring to the boil and cook for 2 minutes. remove from the heat and cool.
3. Place the biscuits in a bowl and crush, leaving 
some pieces chunky.
4. Beat the eggs into the cocoa mixture with a wooden 
spoon and pour over the crushed biscuits. Pour the mixture onto the prepared tray and set for 2 hours in the refrigerator.
5. cover with chocolate icing and serve.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 369-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Honeycomb
Makes about 20 pieces
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 25-cm x 
30-cm lamington tin, baking 
paper, pastry brush, large saucepan, wooden spoon and cup and spoon measures.* Corn syrup is available 
from health food shops and some supermarkets.
* For honeycomb butter— 
250 g unsalted butter, 125 g 
honeycomb. Soften the butter without melting it. Break the honeycomb into smaller pieces and mix through the butter. Roll into logs, place in plastic wrap and freeze until needed. When ready to use, cut discs of butter, remove any plastic wrap and serve on pancakes, French toast, ricotta hotcakes or muffins.1 cup sugar
4 tablespoons corn syrup2 teaspoons bicarbonate of 
soda
1 dessertspoon waterMethod:
1. Line a lamington tin with baking paper. Cut the 
paper 5 cm larger than the tray on all sides then make a diagonal cut 5 cm long from each corner so it fits snugly in the tin, overlapping at the corners. Lightly spray or brush with oil.
2. Melt the sugar and corn syrup in a large heavy-based 
saucepan for about 5 minutes, stirring gently. increase the heat and bring to boiling point. Cook without stirring for about 10 minutes. sift the bicarbonate of soda into the water and stir until dissolved.
3. as soon as the surface turns a pale straw colour, 
sprinkle the bicarbonate of soda mixture over as wide an area as possible and stir through as quickly but as gently as you can—be sure to take only a few seconds or you’ll lose the volume. the mixture will froth up—the trick is to combine the bicarbonate without bursting too many bubbles. don’t worry if tiny specks of bicarbonate of soda remain.
4. Pour into the prepared tin, and leave to harden at 
room temperature.
5. Once cold and hard, break into shards or rough 
squares and keep in airtight containers or pack into bags or cellophane for gifts.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 370Hot cross buns
Makes 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
750 g plain flour
2 teaspoons dried instant yeast
½ teaspoon salt
2½ tablespoons mixed spice
150 g currants300 ml full cream milk125 g unsalted butter100 g soft brown sugar3 eggs, beaten4 tablespoons plain flour2 tablespoons cold water1 egg, beaten, for glazingsifted pure icing sugar, for dusting
Method:
1. Place the flour, yeast, salt, mixed spice and 
currants in a bowl and make a well in the centre.
2. heat the milk, butter and sugar to approximately 
37ºc. Pour the milk mixture into the well and add the beaten eggs. Mix until a soft dough is formed.
3. Turn out onto a lightly floured bench and knead 
until the dough is elastic and homogenous (about  15 minutes).
4. Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl, cover  
with plastic wrap or a damp tea towel and leave to rise in a warm place until doubled in volume (about  1
½ hours).
5. Meanwhile, make the mixture for the crosses. combine the flour and cold water in a small bowl and mix to make a thick, sticky paste. Take small balls  of the paste and, on a floured work surface, roll into 24 thin strips. set aside.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 371 
* You will need— large bowl, 
weight, liquid and spoon 
measures, pastry brush, saucepan, baking tray and wire rack.
* What makes a great 
hot cross bun is simply determined by a matter of individual taste. For some, a light, soft bun with a little spice and a crusty top is perfect; for others, a bun dense with fruit and spice with a marzipan cross is the only way to go. The blasphemy that is the chocolate hot cross bun is something a new generation cannot live without. Like all recipes, adjust according to taste.* Starting with the 
spice, for ease of use I have suggested the simple and ready-to-use mixed spice. However, for a more individual taste, substitute with the following combination—
½ teaspoon each 
of ground cinnamon, ground ginger and ground allspice, plus 
¼ teaspoon each of 
ground coriander, ground nutmeg and ground cloves.
* Try soaking the currants 
in 2 tablespoons brandy or cognac for several hours before adding.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
dried mixed peel and 1 tablespoon chopped, dried apricots.* If adding nuts, try  
4 tablespoons chopped walnuts, pecans or macadamias.
* Making a sweet cross from 
marzipan requires 200 g, rolled and shaped as for the flour paste.
* Instant dried yeast can 
be added to the flour mixture immediately and is the simplest and most effective way to begin using and understanding yeast. More advanced cooks swear by the virtuous flavour of fresh yeast.Method cont.
6. turn out the dough onto the lightly floured work 
surface and knead for a few minutes. divide the mixture into 12 and roll each into a bun shape. transfer to a greased baking tray and place a cross on each bun with the strips of paste, then leave in a warm area for 15 minutes or until doubled in size.
7. Preheat the oven to 200ºC. Brush the top of the 
buns with the beaten egg and bake for 15–20 minutes.
8. remove the buns from the oven and dust immediately 
with icing sugar then cool on a wire rack.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 372Hummingbird cake
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
375 g plain flour, sifted
1 teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda
450 g soft brown sugar1 teaspoon ground cinnamon250 ml canola or safflower 
oil
3 large eggs, at room 
temperature, lightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla extract230 g canned crushed 
pineapple
4 large ripe bananas, 
mashed or chopped
2 recipe quantities 
passionfruit frosting
 
* You will need— 2 x  
23-cm round cake tins, baking 
paper, weight, liquid and spoon measures, large mixing bowl, wooden spoon and wire rack.
* This is a delicious, 
super-moist dessert cake originating from South America. Hummingbird cake should be dense and moist, not light and fluffy.* A constant reminder with 
all cakes that mention the whipping of sugar and butter and then the addition of eggs, one at a time —the eggs 
must be at room temperature. Cold eggs added to the butter mixture will cause it to split. A second reminder—should the mixture separate, continue making the recipe as mentioned, it will still be fine.
* The method recommends to 
mix the ingredients together but ‘do not beat’. Beating the mixture will work the gluten in the flour and toughen the cake.
* Try adding 1 cup chopped 
pecan nuts or walnuts to the mixture when adding the pineapple.
* Try halving the cinnamon 
and using ½ teaspoon ground 
ginger instead.
* Top the cake with 1 mango 
(diced).Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 170ºc. Grease 2 round cake 
tins, dust with flour and line the bases with baking paper.
2. combine the flour, bicarbonate of soda, sugar and 
cinnamon in a large bowl.
3. add the oil, eggs and vanilla and mix with a wooden 
spoon until well combined. Do not beat.
4. stir in the pineapple and banana and pour into the 
prepared tins.
5. Bake for 45–50 minutes or until a skewer inserted 
into the centre comes out clean.
6. cool in the cake tins for 10 minutes before turning 
out onto a wire rack. When cold, ice one cake with frosting, top with the second cake and ice the top with the remaining frosting. Decorate, if desired, with extra crushed pineapple or simply dust with ground cinnamon.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 373Lumberjack cake
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, paring 
knife, vegetable peeler, grater, 20-cm round or square cake tin, baking paper, cup, liquid, weight and spoon measures, whisk, wooden spoon, 2 bowls, sieve, plastic spatula, small saucepan and wire rack.* The size of the cake tin 
affects the initial cooking time of the cake. A cake in a larger, shallow tin may only require 40 minutes in the oven and then 20 more with the topping. A smaller, high-sided 18 cm tin may take  1 hour to cook, then another  20 minutes for the topping.
* There really is no 
variation to this recipe— it is one of the few cakes that stay the same as far as quantities go. Which means if you are looking for a better recipe for lumberjack cake—you really won’t find one.
* The addition of alcohol is 
optional and not mentioned in any lumberjack recipe; however, try adding 60 ml dark rum or brandy to the date mixture.2 Granny smith apples, 
peeled and grated
180 g pitted dates, 
chopped
1 teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda
1 cup boiling water
125 g unsalted butter225 g sugar2 eggs, at room 
temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract200 g plain flour
½ teaspoon salt
Topping
60 g butter
120 g soft brown sugar100 ml milk80 g shredded coconutMethod:
1. Place the apples in a bowl. add the dates, 
bicarbonate of soda and boiling water and mix well. allow to cool to room temperature.
2. Preheat the oven to 180ºC. Grease a cake tin and 
line the base with baking paper.
3. Cream the butter and sugar. add the eggs and 
vanilla and beat well.
4. sift the flour and salt into the butter mixture. 
stir in the date and apple mixture.
5. Pour into the prepared tin and bake for about  
50 minutes (see Hints and tips).
6. For the topping—combine the butter, sugar, milk 
and coconut in a small saucepan. stir over low heat until the butter has melted and the sugar dissolved.
7. When the cake is cooked, spread the coconut topping 
over the top and bake for a further 20 minutes or until the topping is golden.
8. remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack. store 
in an airtight container for 3–5 days.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 374Macaroons
Makes about 50
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 g pure icing sugar
150 g almond meal4 egg whitespinch of cream of tartar
Method:
1. line 2 baking trays with baking paper and spray 
lightly with canola oil.
2. sift the icing sugar into a bowl and mix in the 
almond meal.
3. use an electric mixer to whip the egg whites and 
cream of tartar to firm peaks.
4. fold in the sugar and almond mixture until well 
combined.
5. use a piping bag with a 5-mm nozzle, fill the 
bag with the macaroon mixture and pipe 2-cm rounds approximately 2 cm apart onto the prepared baking trays. alternatively, use 2 teaspoons to dollop small amounts onto the trays. leave to sit on the bench uncovered for at least 1 hour to dry out slightly and form a skin.
6. Preheat the oven to 150ºc. Bake for 15–20 minutes 
or until firm to the touch. rotate the trays (e.g. from top shelf to bottom shelf) halfway through cooking.
7. remove from the oven and cool before removing from 
the trays. serve or store in an airtight container for 2–3 days.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
375* You will need— 2 baking 
trays, sieve, electric mixer, 
2 bowls, weight measure, plastic spatula, piping bag with 5-mm nozzle or  2 teaspoons and airtight container.
* Macaroons are very easy to 
make; however, to get them as perfect as some of the French pastry shops, time, practice and a reliable oven are needed.
* Macaroons should be 
crunchy on the outside and chewy on the inside.
* A few drops of food 
colouring can be added to the mixture. Divide the mixture in half and to one half add some red food colouring to make pink macaroons. To the other half, add a few drops of yellow food colouring. Bake as per the recipe.
* Once piped onto the baking 
trays, the small peaks created can be smoothed by dipping your finger in a bowl of cold water and gently patting down before baking.
* Macaroons are usually 
stuck together. This can be as simple as using strawberry jam to sandwich 2 macaroons together or use butter cream.* This recipe is for a 
classic French almond macaroon; another popular style of macaroon is made with coconut. For coconut macaroons— replace the 
almond meal with 1 
½ cups 
desiccated coconut that has been lightly toasted (180ºC on a flat tray, tossing  after 3 minutes), and add  1 teaspoon vanilla extract.
* Try adding 40 g Dutch 
cocoa to either the almond or coconut mixture. Sift the cocoa together with the icing sugar before folding into the beaten egg whites.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 376MarshMallows
Makes about 15–20
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
½ cup icing mixture (see Hints and tips)
2½ tablespoons powdered gelatine
125 ml cold water350 g caster sugar125 ml light corn syrup125 ml water, extra1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Method:
1. Very lightly oil a slice tray and dust with one-
third of the icing mixture.
2. combine the gelatine and cold water in the bowl of 
an electric mixer and set aside.
3. Mix the sugar, corn syrup and extra water in a 
saucepan over low heat and stir until the sugar is dissolved.
4. Place a sugar thermometer in the saucepan, increase 
the heat to high and, without stirring, boil the mixture until it reaches 120ºc, also known as the ‘firm ball’ stage.
5. remove the pan from the heat and slowly pour the 
sugar mixture into the gelatine mixture while beating on low speed. When all the syrup has been added, turn the mixer to high speed and beat for 10–15 minutes or until thick and white and almost tripled in volume. add the vanilla extract and beat for 2 minutes.
6. Pour the marshmallow mixture into the prepared tray 
and dust with another one-third of the icing mixture. allow to stand, uncovered, for at least 4 hours or overnight to dry out.
7. When ready, turn the marshmallow out of the tray 
and onto a cutting board and cut into squares with a hot, dry knife. Dust all over with the remaining icing mixture.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
377* You will need— 23-cm x  
25-cm deep slice tray, 
electric mixer, cup, liquid, weight and spoon measures, saucepan, sugar thermometer, plastic spatula, cutting board and cook’s knife.
* Marshmallows were once 
made from the juices extracted from the root of the marshmallow plant, a practice which has been replaced by using a mixture of corn syrup and gelatine or gum arabic.
* Icing mixture contains 
cornflour whereas icing sugar, also known as pure icing sugar or confectioners’ sugar, doesn’t. Cornflour is added to pure icing sugar to keep the sugar from forming lumps and going hard. Icing mixture is ideal for dusting over cakes and desserts, but is not suitable for baking with, as it is not a pure form of sugar.
* Often recipes for 
marshmallow contain egg white which is not necessary but can make a more fluffy marshmallow. You will need to beat 2 egg whites to stiff peaks and add to the beaten sugar/gelatine mixture. Although fluffier, uncooked egg whites lead to issues of salmonella and food poisoning, therefore the safe option is to follow the basic recipe.
* Try boiling 6 cardamom 
pods or the zest of 1 lemon in a small amount of water, then straining the water and using the flavoured water in the recipe.
* Add 1 tablespoon 
rosewater, orange flower water or vanilla extract to the basic recipe.
* Instead of dusting with 
icing mixture, lightly toast 1 cup desiccated coconut and use to coat the marshmallow.
* An alternative and 
very simple recipe for marshmallows— without the use 
of a sugar thermometer— and 
worth a try is to: boil 1 kg granulated sugar with  550 ml water until the sugar dissolves. Add 4 tablespoons gelatine powder, remove from the heat and stir until the gelatine has dissolved, then add 1 tablespoon vanilla extract and a good pinch of cream of tartar. Whip with an electric mixer until stiff peaks form. Pour into the prepared tray and leave to set before cutting with a hot knife and dipping in icing mixture or desiccated coconut.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 378125 g unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons pure icing sugar
¼ teaspoon vanilla extract
150 g plain flour60 g cornflour
Filling
60 g unsalted butter, softened150 g pure icing sugar4 drops of vanilla extract
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 160ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper and lightly grease with oil or butter.
2. use an electric mixer to whip the butter and sugar 
until light and fluffy. add the vanilla.
3. add the flour and cornflour, and stir to combine.4. Dip your hands in some flour and roll teaspoonfuls 
of mixture into balls. Place the balls onto the prepared baking tray and press with a fork, also dipped in flour.
5. Bake in the oven for 15 minutes or until slightly 
golden in colour.
6. cool on the tray for 5 minutes before transferring 
to a wire rack.
7. for the filling—combine the butter, sugar and 
vanilla in a bowl and beat until pale and creamy.
8. To assemble—spoon some of the filling onto the base 
of a biscuit and top with a second biscuit. repeat with the remaining biscuits and filling. store in an airtight container.Melting MoMents
Makes 24xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxCakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
379* You will need— weight and 
spoon measures, electric 
mixer, baking tray, wire rack, bowl and teaspoon measure.
* Also known as ‘yoyos’— 
2 biscuits are held together by a white paste, resembling a yoyo.
* For a children’s party, 
try gluing the biscuits together with a dollop of ice-cream.
* Melting moments keep in an 
airtight container stored at room temperature for up to  4 days.
* The biscuits by themselves 
keep well for 1 week before needing to be filled (if indeed they last that long).
* Often when purchasing 
melting moments from a good deli or cake shop, the biscuit has a yellow colour to it; this can be achieved by replacing the cornflour with custard powder, measure for measure. Custard powder is flavoured with vanilla so it is not necessary to add the vanilla extract.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
passionfruit pulp to the filling. Passionfruit pulp can be purchased in small tins from the supermarket when not in season.
* Instead of the suggested 
filling provided, you can use your favourite jam.
* The biscuits can be 
enjoyed on their own simply dusted with icing sugar.
* A mascarpone filling is 
a great alternative. For orange and mascarpone melting moments try this filling— 110 g mascarpone cheese,  75 g cream cheese, 75 g icing sugar, and the zest and juice of 1 orange. Whisk together until smooth and creamy, refrigerate for 1 hour before using then fill the biscuits and eat on the day they are made.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 380Meringues
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
100 g egg whites
100 g caster sugar100 g pure icing sugar, 
sifted
 
* You will need— 1 baking 
tray, baking paper, electric 
mixer and bowl, spatula, cup and weight measures, spoon or piping bag and nozzle for shaping.
* Success with meringues 
and pavlova relies on persistence and correct oven temperatures.
* Meringues made on a rainy 
or humid day will struggle to dry properly.
* If beads form on the 
surface of the meringue or liquid seeps from the base, the oven temperature is too low—try increasing by 10°C.
* Allow meringues to finish 
cooling in the oven after the oven has been turned off.
* Cracks form when the 
meringue has cooled too quickly, because it has been removed from the oven while still warm.
* Overcooked meringues? Once 
they have cooled, they can be crushed and used in, on or around cakes, or mixed into or sprinkled over ice-cream. (And, let’s face it, overdone or underdone, to a child, any meringue is good.)* Snow eggs— are a classic, 
soft poached or baked meringue. Made with egg whites and caster sugar then served on crème anglaise, these meringues are made by beating egg whites to a soft peak, adding the sugar then poaching spoonfuls (quenelles) in slightly sweetened milk for 6 minutes, turning once. They can also be piped into small tins or ramekins and baked at 140°C for 10 minutes.
* ‘Vacherins’ are French 
meringues piped into cup or vol au vent shapes. Once cooked they are filled with fruit, ice-cream, cream or custard.Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 120ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. Place the egg whites in a very clean bowl and beat 
with an electric mixer until soft peaks form.
3. Gradually add the caster sugar in small amounts and 
beat for 10 minutes or until smooth and glossy.
4. fold in the icing sugar, taking great care not to 
overwork the mixture.
5. Place small spoonfuls of the meringue on the 
prepared tray and transfer to the oven. immediately reduce the temperature to 100ºc and bake for 1
¾ hours 
or until the top and base are dry to touch. keep for 2 weeks in an airtight container.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 381-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Muffins
Makes 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 2 bowls, 
weight and spoon measures, 
wooden spoon, whisk and muffin tray.
* Treat muffins as you would 
a scone mixture, mixing in the flour just enough to incorporate but to not overmix and work the gluten. Ideally, a muffin mixture is lumpy and looks like a mistake. Then it’s ready to cook.
* When adding flavours, do so 
before the flour is mixed in.
* A good muffin should 
‘mushroom’ out of the tray, ensuring a crispy top and a soft, moist base. Muffin moulds need to be filled to no more than 5 mm from the top. Any less and the muffins will only rise to just above the tray, looking more like a cupcake. Add too much and it will spill over and become one large mass.
* For simple chocolate 
muffins— sift 3 tablespoons 
cocoa powder with the flour before adding to the wet mixture. For double chocolate chip muffins— add  
2 tablespoons chocolate buttons or chocolate pieces to the wet mixture before adding the flour and cocoa mixture as for chocolate muffins.* For blueberry muffins—
add 1 cup fresh or frozen blueberries to the wet mixture before adding the flour.
* For savoury muffins— wet 
mixture with the flour added carefully at the end. Replace the sugar with grated parmesan cheese. Be sure to omit the vanilla extract as well. With this as the base, any number of savoury  flavours can be added. Try  3 tablespoons pesto, or 250 g spinach leaves sautéed in butter, cooled and chopped then mixed with 2 tablespoons fetta cheese, or 1 cup each grated zucchini and cooked bacon.100 g unsalted butter, 
melted
150 g caster sugar
3 eggs, lightly beaten1 teaspoon vanilla extract250 g self-raising flourMethod:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºC. Lightly spray a 6-mould 
muffin tray with canola or light olive oil.
2. Whisk the butter and sugar in a bowl.3. add the eggs and vanilla and stir until combined.4. sift the flour into another bowl and make a well in 
the centre. Mix in the butter mixture with a wooden spoon until just combined. do not work the mixture too much or the muffins will be tight and rubbery.
5. dollop into the prepared muffin tray and bake in the 
oven for 20–25 minutes or until just firm to the touch. remove and cool in the tray before turning out.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 382NaNaimo bars
Makes about 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Base
125 g unsalted butter125 g caster sugar50 g cocoa powder1 egg, lightly beaten175 g sweet plain biscuits, crushed60 g desiccated coconut60 g walnuts, finely chopped
Middle layer
125 g unsalted butter3 tablespoons milk2 tablespoons custard powder250 g pure icing sugar
Top layer
125 g dark chocolate, chopped50 g unsalted butter
Method:
1. for the base—combine the unsalted butter, sugar 
and cocoa in a heatproof bowl and place over a saucepan of simmering water. heat until the butter has melted and stir until thoroughly mixed.
2. stir in the egg and continue to heat until the 
mixture thickens. remove from the heat (keep the water simmering for the topping) and stir in the biscuits, coconut and walnuts.
3. line the base of a slice tray with baking paper, 
press the mixture into the base firmly and set aside.
4. for the middle layer—place the butter, milk, 
custard powder and icing sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer. use the whisk to slowly incorporate the ingredients. Turn the machine to high and whip until light and fluffy. spread this layer over the base.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 383 
* You will need— 23-cm 
rectangular or square slice 
tray about 5-cm deep,  2 heatproof bowls, electric mixer, saucepan, weight and spoon measures, food processor (for the biscuits and walnuts), wooden spoon, and plastic spatula.
* Nanaimo bars are to Canada 
as caramel slice is to Australia. They are simple to make and delicious as a sweet snack. The major difference between the two slices is the middle layer— both have a 
sweet, compact biscuit base and a chocolate topping, but caramel slice has a distinct firm caramel filling as opposed to the thick, buttery sweet custard centre of the Nanaimo.* Any plain sweet biscuit 
can be used in this recipe. Graham crackers (sweet digestive biscuits) are the preferred biscuit in the Nanaimo bar’s native Canada. Equally successful is the use of 1 cup rolled oats mixed with 75 g soft brown sugar.
* The use of custard powder 
(for flavour) in the middle layer is preferred. For alternative flavours, keep the custard powder the same and add vanilla extract (1 teaspoon) or peppermint essence (1 teaspoon  plus 1–2 drops green food 
colouring) or coffee  (2 teaspoons instant  coffee powder).
* Nanaimo bars are very 
rich, cut into 5 cm x 5 cm squares before serving.Method cont.
5. For the top layer—combine the chocolate and 
butter in a heatproof bowl and place over the pan of simmering water. remove the pot from the heat to allow the residual heat to slowly melt the chocolate and butter. Once melted and thoroughly combined, cool completely before pouring over the middle layer.
6. refrigerate for 2 hours or until set firm. Cut with 
a hot knife.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 384Peanut brittle
Makes about 800 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 g sugar
200 ml light corn syrup200 ml water30 g butter
¼ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon vanilla 
extract
1 teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda
300 g unsalted, roasted 
peanuts
 
* You will need— 2 x 23-cm x 
18-cm slice trays, for one, 
halve the recipe), foil, heavy-based saucepan, sugar thermometer, wooden spoon and liquid, weight and spoon measures.
* This type of cooking 
really is a science and needs some precision to get it the same every time. A sugar thermometer is not a waste of money as it can be used to make marshmallows, Italian meringue, jams and marmalade.* As the peanut brittle 
cools, mark it with a knife to form the shapes it will be broken into. It can just be broken randomly into large and small shards.
* Try replacing the peanuts 
with roasted macadamia nuts, roasted whole blanched almonds or fresh roasted pecan nuts.
* The light corn syrup is 
added to prevent the sugar syrup from forming crystals, the same reason it is used when making honeycomb.* Strangely enough, peanut 
brittle gets better with age, so store in an airtight container in single layers separated with foil or baking paper.
* Bicarbonate of soda is 
used in this recipe for two reasons— first, it lightens 
the texture of the mixture; and second, it neutralises the slight bitterness produced from the caramel.Method:
1. line 2 slice trays with foil and lightly spray with 
canola or light olive oil.
2. combine the sugar, corn syrup and water in a heavy-
based saucepan over medium heat and stir until the sugar dissolves.
3. Place a sugar thermometer in the syrup and continue 
to cook without stirring until the syrup reaches the ‘crack’ stage—144ºc. add the butter and stir with a wooden spoon, then allow the mixture to come back to the ‘soft ball’ stage—112ºc. remove from the heat.
4. Quickly stir in the vanilla and bicarbonate of 
soda and as it froths, stir in the nuts until well combined. Pour immediately into the prepared trays and set aside to cool completely. Break up when cold. Peanut brittle can be stored for several weeks in an airtight container.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 385-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Pecan biscuits
Makes about 30
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— baking 
tray, baking paper, bowl, 
weight and spoon measures, electric mixer, wooden spoon and wire rack.
* This is another very 
simple-to-make biscuit recipe that is rich because of the butter content.
* Substitute pecan nuts 
for macadamias, almonds, pistachios or walnuts.
* These biscuits can be made 
in advance, frozen flat on a tray and then transferred to a freezer bag. Take out only what is needed and defrost in the refrigerator overnight before baking.
* Try incorporating other 
flavours into the basic recipe, like chocolate chips  (125 g) or add 2 tablespoons cocoa powder to the flour before sifting.
* This style of biscuit 
is a good, simple recipe for children to get into. Like the muffins recipe, it gives children a basic understanding of baking and the science of cooking without too much to think about.125 g unsalted butter, 
softened
2 tablespoons caster sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract125 g chopped pecan nuts100 g plain flour100 g pure icing sugarMethod:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºC. Line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. use an electric mixer to cream the butter and sugar 
until light and fluffy.
3. With a wooden spoon, stir in the vanilla and the 
pecans.
4. stir in the flour until thoroughly mixed then roll 
into balls about 2 cm in diameter.
5. Place on the prepared baking tray and bake for 
12–15 minutes.
6. Cool on a wire rack and coat heavily in icing 
sugar. store in an airtight container, if they make it that far.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 386Pikelets
Makes about 16
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
180 g self-raising flour
50 g caster sugar1 egg180 ml milk1 tablespoon white vinegar20 g butter, meltedextra butter, for cooking
 
* You will need— 2 bowls, 
whisk or wooden spoon, spoon, 
liquid and weight measures, frying pan and spatula or  egg flip.
* 180 g flour is about  
1 heaped cup.
* For a savoury snack, omit 
the sugar from the recipe. Cook the pikelets and top with smoked salmon and crème fraîche mixed with chopped dill, or shaved leg ham and mustard pickles.
* Some cooks use the same 
recipe for pancakes and pikelets. Essentially one is just a small version of the other. Then why do I offer recipes for pancakes and pikelets in this book? It’s because I grew up believing that there was an intrinsic difference between the two, and I have a strong belief in the virtues of batter, so I have made a point of offering two quite different recipes to distinguish a pancake from a pikelet. My pancake recipe can be found in the Breakfast chapter.
* Pikelets are a tidy little 
snack that most children have devoured at some point or other on finishing the day’s toil of schooling ... and there never seemed to be enough. Topped with strawberry jam and sweet whipped cream (naughtily hiding its few drops of vanilla and spoonfuls of icing sugar), this was THE after-school snack to rival all others.
* A clever cook makes 
umpteen times the recipe so there are plenty of pikelets after school, plenty for lunch boxes the next day, and still plenty for the 24th hour after first ingestion. In other words, make a big batch to last a day and a half (including breakfast).Method:
1. sift the flour into a bowl and add the sugar. Make a 
well in the centre.
2. combine the egg, milk, vinegar and melted butter 
in a second bowl and whisk. add nearly all of the wet ingredients—it is best to reserve some just in case the batter becomes too runny—to the dry ingredients. Mix together until the batter is smooth and runny without being too liquid.
3. heat a frying pan over low heat, add some of the 
extra butter and then add spoonfuls of the batter to form discs 8–10 cm in diameter.
4. When the top of each pikelet forms bubbles, turn 
over with an egg flip or spatula. cook the other side 
for 1 minute before removing to a plate. serve with your favourite topping.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 387Praline
Makes about 500 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— baking 
tray, foil, saucepan, weight 
measure, wooden spoon and food processor or rolling pin.
* This classic praline is 
crushed and used on any number of sweet and sometimes savoury dishes (see Thai beef salad). Try sprinkling over ice-cream, mix into semifreddo, or serve on and around iced cakes and desserts.
* The rule of thumb for a 
basic praline is the sugar and nuts are measured in equal parts, with a small amount of water added to help control the caramel.* Any type of nut or 
combination of nuts can be used as long as they are unsalted and roasted to maximise flavour. Therefore, keep in mind the following—hazelnuts (roasted and skins removed), macadamias, cashews, peanuts, walnuts, pecans and Brazil nuts.
* This style of praline is 
French, but there is another style of praline which is more of a nut brittle than true praline and is known as a New Orleans praline— mix 
125 g soft brown sugar,  125 g sugar, 50 ml evaporated milk, 20 g butter and 250 g pecan nuts (or nuts of your choice). Place ingredients in a saucepan and, use a sugar thermometer to bring the mixture to soft ball stage 112ºC. Remove from the heat and stand for 5 minutes before stirring in  
½ teaspoon vanilla extract. 
Beat with a wooden spoon until thickened. On a tray lined with greased foil, place 2 teaspoons of mixture for individual pralines (makes about 20).
* Without a sugar 
thermometer, gauging when a hot sugar syrup is at the ‘soft ball’ stage requires the use of a bowl of iced water. Spoon a few drops of the syrup into the water and if the syrup forms a fudge-like ‘soft ball’ when rolled between the thumb and forefinger, it is ready.250 g sugar
50 ml water250 g almonds, toastedMethod:
1. Line a baking tray with foil and lightly spray with 
canola oil or grease with butter.
2. Place the sugar and water in a heavy-based 
saucepan, bring to the boil and cook without stirring until it reaches a light caramel colour (about 170ºC on a sugar thermometer).
3. remove from the heat, add the nuts and mix well 
using a wooden spoon. Pour the mixture onto the prepared tray and allow to become cold before crushing with a rolling pin or in a food processor to a granular texture. store in an airtight container in a dry, cool area or in the freezer.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 388Quiche Lorraine
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g butter, cut into 1-cm dice
250 g plain flour
½ teaspoon salt
¹⁄³ cup cold water
2 tablespoons olive oil4 streaky bacon rashers, chopped1 large leek, sliced and washed4 eggs, at room temperature2 cups pouring creamsalt and pepper
Method:
1. for the pastry—place the butter and flour in a food 
processor and blend until the mixture resembles rolled oats. add the salt and water and continue to blend until a dough ball forms.
2. remove from the machine, wrap the dough in plastic 
wrap, flatten slightly and refrigerate for 30 minutes to 1 hour. it is vital the dough remains cold.
3. lightly flour a work surface and roll out the dough 
to a thickness of 3–5 mm.
4. use a rolling pin to pick up the pastry and lay 
over a flan tin. Do not despair if at this point it breaks. Pick up any broken pieces and push into any areas where gaps appear. allow the pastry to hang over the edge of the tin.
5. Place the pastry case back in the fridge for 
another 30 minutes—this step is also vital.
6. Meanwhile, for the filling—heat the oil in a pan 
over medium heat. add the bacon and leek and fry until the leek has softened and the bacon is fragrant, about 8 minutes. Do not colour. set aside.
7. combine the eggs, cream and salt and pepper in a 
bowl and mix well.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 389 
* You will need— food 
processor or electric 
mixer with dough hook and bowl, cup, weight and spoon measures, rolling pin, cutting board, cook’s knife, frying pan, bowl, whisk, deep 23-cm flan tin, foil and pie weights.
* Pre-made shortcrust pastry 
from the freezer section of the supermarket is a good alternative to homemade. Bases made with filo pastry or puff pastry also work well.
* The main thing to remember 
with a quiche is that the filling is a delicate savoury custard that need only just set. Cooking at a high temperature or for too long will make the egg proteins separate or coagulate, leaving the custard watery and sponge-like. Take your time for a smooth result.Method cont.
8. stir in the bacon and leek mixture and set aside.9. Preheat the oven to 200°C.10. remove the pastry case from the fridge, cover with 
foil and add 2 cups dried beans or pie weights (to prevent the base from collecting steam and becoming concave). Bake in the oven for 15 minutes, remove from the oven and carefully remove the foil and weights (the weights are hot and the foil could still cut into the soft pastry). return the base to the oven and cook for a further 7–10 minutes. remove the pastry from the oven and reduce the oven temperature to 150ºC.
11. While the pastry case is still hot, pour the 
filling into the case and return to the oven. Bake for 1 hour or until the quiche has set with the middle having a slight wobble when moved.
12. remove from the oven and cool before serving. it 
is best the next day when cutting a slice will be much easier and can be warmed in the microwave.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 390RaspbeRRy cheesecake
Serves 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Base
250 g plain sweet or chocolate biscuits125 g unsalted butter, melted
Filling
375 g fresh raspberries (3 punnets)150 g pure icing sugar600 g cream cheese400 g can condensed milk300 ml thickened cream8 gelatine leaves
Method:
1. for the base—place the biscuits in a food 
processor and blitz to form fine crumbs. add the butter and pulse until combined. scrape into a springform cake tin and, with the back of a spoon, press into the base of the tin and halfway up the sides. Place in the fridge.
2. for the filling—place the raspberries in a bowl and 
sprinkle with the sugar, then set aside for 5 minutes. Place in the food processor and blitz for 30 seconds. use a plastic spatula to scrape the raspberry puree into a sieve and press out all of the pulp. Do not wash the food processor bowl, add the cream cheese, condensed milk and cream and blitz until smooth. Pour into a bowl then add all but 
½ cup of the raspberry 
sauce and mix through.
3. Place the gelatine in plenty of cold water to 
soften, about 5 minutes. squeeze out the excess water. heat the remaining 
½ cup raspberry sauce in a 
small saucepan. Bring to a simmer, add the gelatine, remove from the heat and stir with a spatula until the gelatine has dissolved. add 1 cup cream cheese mixture to the gelatine mixture, combine thoroughly then pour into the remaining cream cheese mixture and stir until evenly combined.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 391 
* You will need— bowl, food 
processor, plastic spatula, 
sieve, 20-cm springform cake tin, liquid and weight measures, paring knife and cook’s knife.
* Cheesecakes set with 
gelatine are rarely done these days because baked cheesecakes take less time and are less challenging. The results, however, are very different and so this recipe is worth a try.
* For those cooks who are 
used to using powdered gelatine, use 5 tablespoons sprinkled over 
½ cup hot 
raspberry sauce; when dissolved, continue as per the method.
* For a lighter texture, 
semi-whip the cream to soft peaks and add last, folding into the cheesecake mixture once the gelatine/raspberry mixture is thoroughly combined.
* Decorate with fresh 
raspberries.
* If raspberries are out of 
season or are too expensive, use the same quantity of frozen raspberries.
* For a simple flavour, make 
a lemon cheesecake— omit the 
raspberry puree altogether and use 100 ml lemon juice, 1 tablespoon vanilla extract and the zest of 2 lemons. Dissolve the gelatine in the heated lemon juice. Place the lemon zest in a sieve and pour boiling water over the zest to remove the bitterness. Add some of the cheesecake mixture to the lemon juice/gelatine then pour back into the main mixture.* For simple cheesecake   
with no gelatine— beat  
200 g softened cream cheese with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Slowly add 1 can condensed milk (to avoid lumps) and 120 ml lemon juice. Pour this mixture into the prepared base and set overnight. This filling is much softer and reminds me of how my grandmother makes a cold set cheesecake. Serve with whipped cream.Method cont.
4. Pour the filling onto the chilled base. set for  
6 hours in the fridge or overnight.
5. dip a small knife in hot water and run the knife 
around the inside of the cake tin, then release the springform. Cut into serves with a larger knife also dipped in hot water. serve on its own or with raspberry sauce and whipped cream.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 392SauSage rollS
Makes about 36
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 g sausage mince
300 g beef mince1 medium carrot, grated1 medium brown onion, grated1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleysalt and pepper3 sheets puff pastry, defrosted2 eggs, lightly beaten
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc. Grease a large baking 
tray.
2. Mix the sausage meat, beef mince, carrot, onion, 
parsley and salt and pepper until well combined.
3. Take 1 sheet of the pastry and cut in half. Place 
a thick ‘sausage’ of the mince mixture along one long side of the pastry about 1 cm from the edge. Brush the egg along the long
 sides of the pastry and fold 
the pastry over the mince to form a log. Trim off any excess pastry. cut into 6 pieces. repeat with the remaining pastry, and mince mixture.
4. Brush the top with the egg, arrange on the baking 
tray and bake for 20 minutes or until golden brown.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
393* You will need— cutting 
board, paring knife, 
vegetable peeler, bowl, weight and spoon measures, mixing spoon and large  baking tray.
* Serve with tomato sauce or 
with tomato chutney.
* When piping the mixture 
it is important to only half fill the piping bag. This will make handling the mixture and piping much easier.
* For a simple mixture try 
using 600 g sausage mince,  1 packet French onion soup,  1 tablespoon tomato paste,  1 egg and 
½ cup bread crumbs 
and salt and pepper to taste.
* Any leftovers can be left 
in the fridge for 5 days and reheated as a snack.
* These rolls can be frozen 
easily and baked when necessary, just allow  15 minutes for them to thaw slightly before placing in a pre-heated oven. When freezing the uncooked sausage rolls, place on a tray lined with baking paper to prevent them from sticking to the tray. Once frozen solid, transfer to an airtight container or clip lock bag until needed.* You can add 1 tablespoon 
dried chilli to the mixture, but do not be too liberal because it is not to everybody’s taste.
* For a better quality meat 
mixture, buy your favourite sausages, run a knife down the length to break the casing membrane and use this meat instead of the sausage mince.
* Sausage mince already 
prepared for sausage rolls often contains gluten meal as a means of thickening the mixture and for moisture retention. Using regular minced meat, even with bread crumbs added, can tend to wet the pastry, making the base of the sausage roll soggy.
* Sausage rolls are great as 
finger food but can be left larger for a meal served with a green salad.
* You can cook off the 
onion, carrot and parsley in 1 tablespoon butter to add depth of flavour.
* The parsley can be 
substituted with other herbs—coriander always gives 
an interesting twist. Serve with a sweet chilli sauce.* Sesame seeds or poppy 
seeds can be sprinkled on top of the rolls before baking.
* To make sausage pinwheels, 
spread 1 thawed puff pastry sheet with the mixture to within 1 cm from the edges. Brush the edges with lightly beaten egg and roll up like a Swiss roll. Cut roll into 3-cm wheels, and bake on a baking tray.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 394SconeS
Makes about 12
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
450 g self-raising flour
50 g cold butter, diced300 ml cold milkextra milk, for brushing
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 220ºc. lightly flour a baking 
tray.
2. sift the flour into a bowl, add the butter and work 
into the flour using your fingertips. once combined, the mixture will resemble coarse sand.
3. Make a well in the centre and add the milk. use a 
bread and butter knife to mix the dough to ensure it doesn’t become overworked or mix using your fingertips. When the dough just comes together, turn out onto a lightly floured surface.
4. flatten the dough with your hands so it is 
approximately 2.5 cm thick. use a sharp scone cutter to cut out the scones. Do not twist the cutter as this will make the scones rise unevenly. Transfer the scones to the prepared baking tray and place so they are almost touching (1–2 mm apart). Brush the tops lightly with the extra milk.
5. Bake in the oven for 12 minutes or until golden and 
firm to touch.
6. serve immediately with jam and whipped cream.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
395* You will need— weight 
and liquid measures, bowl, 
bread and butter knife, scone cutter and baking tray.
* The most important factor 
for great scones is not to over-mix the dough, hence a blunt knife is used to only just bring the mixture together without beating or kneading the dough. Working the dough too much will make the scones tight, hard and doughy instead of light and flaky.
* Try using half milk and 
half water in the recipe to lighten the mixture even more.
* The butter should be cold 
from the fridge and mixed only with your fingertips to avoid melting it; the milk should also be added cold. This ensures the scones stay flaky with a light crumb.
* When placing the scones 
on the tray, they can be touching so they support each other and make soft-sided scones with only a few having the odd crispy side.
* Wrap the cooked scones in 
a clean tea towel to keep the outer crust soft. For a crunchy crust, cool the scones uncovered.* Make mini savoury scones  
to use as a base for canapés for a cocktail party. Make the dough only 1.5 cm high, bake, cut in half and top with crème fraîche and smoked salmon. You could also mix  
½ cup of your favourite 
grated cheese into the flour before mixing in the milk  or water.
* A favourite recipe of mine 
is lemonade scones. These are easier to make than the classic scone. To 450 g self-raising flour, add 250 ml lemonade and 250 ml thickened cream, mix with a knife and bake until golden. Ensure the lemonade and cream are chilled and this recipe will be perfect every time.
* Try using a scone dough, 
rolled to 1 cm thick, as a topping for apple pie or instead of a crumble mixture.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 396Spanakopita
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 bunch spinach
500 g australian fetta, crumbled
500 g fresh firm ricotta3 eggs, lightly beaten1 tablespoon chopped flat-leaf parsley1 tablespoon mint or dill (optional)1 teaspoon salt8 filo pastry sheets3 tablespoons olive oil
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. Prepare a baking dish by 
lightly greasing with oil.
2. Wash the spinach thoroughly and place in a pot of 
boiling water. cook for 20 seconds or until wilted. Drain and run under cold water to refresh and stop the cooking. When cool, squeeze the excess water from the spinach. you will have approximately 2 cups cooked spinach.
3. Place the spinach in a bowl, add the fetta, 
ricotta, eggs, parsley, mint or dill (if using) and salt, and mix thoroughly.
4. Place four sheets of filo in the prepared baking 
dish and brush each layer with oil. This forms the bottom layer.
5. spread the spinach mixture evenly over the filo. 
repeat the filo layers for the top, brushing each sheet with oil.
6. Bake in the oven for 25 minutes or until golden and 
crispy on top.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
397* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, weight 
and spoon measures, pastry brush, baking dish (28 cm x 18 cm x 8 cm deep), large bowl and large pot.
* More spinach can be 
used in this recipe or alternatively reduce the cheese content. Many Westernised recipes use less than half the cheese I have suggested. My Greek cooking guru Vasiliki and her extended family would not hear of reducing this quantity and I am convinced and somewhat scared and so it is written.
* Pine nuts can be added; 
toast 2 tablespoons pine nuts, crush in a mortar and pestle, and add with the cheese.
* Use fetta of choice but 
Australian fetta is less salty than European fetta, therefore allowing the cook to control the saltiness of the dish. Fetta should be rinsed under running water to reduce saltiness if coming straight from the brine.
* Fetta cheese should be 
purchased in its own brine as it keeps the cheese moist. If the brine is too salty, the fetta can be stored in a milk bath to keep it moist and reduce saltiness.
* Ricotta is a low fat, 
low salt, mild-flavoured cheese produced from whey, a by-product of cheese manufacture, therefore ricotta is not actually a cheese at all. Ricotta means ‘cooked again’ and refers to its production method: the whey is reheated and an acid, such as vinegar, is added to coagulate and set the ricotta.
* When preparing filo pastry, 
always cover the remaining sheets of filo with a damp tea towel as you brush the sheets you are working with. It dries out very quickly, making it difficult to work with.
* To make Tiropita— use 
500 g ricotta, 500 g fetta, replace parsley for mint, and omit the spinach.
* To make Hortopita— 
use 1 bunch spinach,  2 tablespoons chopped parsley, 1 tablespoon chopped mint, 
½ cup chopped 
spring onions, 1 teaspoon salt, 
½ teaspoon pepper,  
2 tablespoons raw short-grain rice, combine in a bowl and follow the basic method.* Spanakopita can be made 
in advance and frozen before cooking.
* Puff pastry can be used 
instead of filo. Place  1 sheet on the bottom of  the dish and 1 on top.
* Spanakopita is ideal for 
finger food, make into mini triangles and roll with a sheet of filo pastry.
* If serving as finger food, 
sweet chilli sauce or tomato relish can be used as a dipping sauce.
* This can also be made 
without pre-cooking the spinach if in a hurry: add 1 tablespoon raw short-grain rice with the cheeses to soak up the water the spinach releases.
* Reheat spanakopita in the 
oven, covered with foil, to keep its crispness; if reheated in the microwave, it will go soggy.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 398Sponge cake
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5 eggs, at room temperature, separated
pinch of cream of tartar
¾ cup caster sugar
2 tablespoons custard powder
¾ cup cornflour
1 teaspoon baking powder
½ teaspoon bicarbonate of soda
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 175ºc. Grease 2 round cake tins 
with canola or olive oil, line the bases with a round of baking paper and dust with cornflour. lightly tap out the excess flour.
2. Whisk the egg whites with the cream of tartar to 
soft peaks and gradually beat in the sugar. add the egg yolks and whisk until combined.
3. sift the custard powder, cornflour, baking powder 
and bicarbonate of soda 3 or 4 times.
4. Gently fold the dry ingredients into the egg 
mixture.
5. Pour into the prepared cake tins and bake for  
20–25 minutes.
6. allow the cakes to cool thoroughly in the tins, 
then invert onto a wire rack. Top with icing or whipped cream and strawberries (see hints and tips).Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
399* You will need— 2 x  
20-cm round cake tins, 
plastic spatula, electric mixer, sieve, cup and spoon measures and wire rack.
* Sponge cake or foam cake 
is the lightest and most delicate of all the cakes and is often deemed the blue ribbon baking item in metropolitan shows, Royal shows and small country town shows.
* A sponge cake differs to a 
génoise or chiffon cake, as the latter, although quite light, has a denser crumb because it uses plain or cake flour (instead of cornflour) and adds butter.
* This recipe for sponge 
cake is very similar to ‘angel food cake’— both 
methods separate the eggs and make a meringue. This recipe has the egg yolks added back to the mixture whereas an angel food cake is pure meringue with no added fat. In a regular sponge cake the whole eggs are beaten to a foam with the sugar before the flour is folded in.
* For a light crust on the 
sponge cake, try sprinkling the batter with caster sugar before it goes into the oven.* For best results, a sponge 
cake should be made and used on the same day. It can be successfully frozen, which should be done as soon as it is cooled, and kept frozen for 2–3 months.
* Any number of fillings and 
toppings can go with a basic sponge cake. Frosting can top the sponge beautifully. Or sandwich the cakes with  300 ml whipped cream mixed with 2 tablespoons pure icing sugar. Or gently mix the whipped cream with 150 g grated chocolate or 250 g chopped berries, such as strawberries.
* There are many 
opportunities for a basic sponge to turn into a disaster. The thermostat in most domestic ovens is inaccurate, therefore it is recommended that you use an oven thermometer to get an exact reading from your oven.
* Lopsided? If your cakes 
are constantly lopsided, you have a problem with hot spots in the oven. Rotate the cake 180 degrees in the oven halfway through cooking to even things up. If it is too far gone, cool the cake then slice off the top to even it up, turn it over and ice or frost the base (which is now the top).* If a cake is undercooked 
and removed from the oven too soon, it will collapse. Check for doneness by touching the centre gently— it should 
spring back. The sides of the cake should have shrunk slightly too.
* If the cake is not for 
show purposes, use a ring-shaped cake tin (also known as a tube tin) to allow the cake to cook from the inside out.
* Dull coloured tins are 
best as shiny surfaced cake tins reflect heat, taking longer to cook; while black tins absorb heat, causing the cake to brown on the outside before the inside is done.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 400SwiSS roll
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6 egg yolks
120 g caster sugar2 teaspoons vanilla extract60 g plain flour6 egg whitespinch of cream of tartar2 tablespoons caster sugar extra, for sprinkling
½ cup strawberry jam, melted
300 ml whipped creamsifted icing sugar, for dusting
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a shallow baking 
tray with baking paper and dust with flour.
2. combine the egg yolks, caster sugar and vanilla in 
a bowl, and whisk until pale. stir in the flour.
3. use an electric mixer to whisk the egg whites and 
cream of tartar until stiff peaks form.
4. add a large dollop of the egg whites to the egg 
yolk mixture and thoroughly mix; this step loosens the mixture. Gently fold in the remaining egg whites. Pour the batter into the prepared baking tray and bake for 15–20 minutes or until the sponge springs back when touched.
5. lay a large piece of baking paper on the bench and 
sprinkle with the extra caster sugar.
6. Turn out the sponge onto the sugared paper straight 
from the oven and gently peel off the baking paper. allow to cool for only 2–3 minutes. While the sponge is still very warm, use the sugared baking paper to lift one end of the sponge and roll up. cover with a clean tea towel and leave, rolled up, to cool completely—this can take more than an hour.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 401 
* You will need— rectangular 
23-cm x 18-cm baking tray,  
2 bowls, electric mixer, cup, liquid, spoon and weight measures, plastic spatula and pastry brush.
* The single biggest issue 
for cooks making a Swiss roll is the cracking or splitting of the cake when it is rolled up. The reason this happens is that all too often the sponge is left to cool as a flat slab, and is then filled and rolled, causing the stiff sponge to break. To avoid this, the sponge must be rolled while it is still very warm and then allowed to cool in this position until it sets cold. When gently unrolled then filled, it will roll up easily. If the delicate sponge is rolled hot from the oven, it tends to squash from the steam in the sponge; by allowing it to sit for a few minutes, the sponge can begin to set and hold its shape before being rolled.
* Should the sponge not work 
out as you hoped, it could still be used in a trifle or cut into squares and used for lamingtons.
* For a lemon Swiss roll—
add the zest and juice of  1 lemon to the sponge mixture. Then fill with lemon curd or if in a hurry, pre-bought lemon butter.
* For a chocolate Swiss 
roll—add 3 tablespoons  
cocoa powder to the egg yolk mixture before folding in the whites. Fill with a rich chocolate ganache: heat to boiling point 150 ml thickened cream, remove from the heat, add 250 g chopped dark chocolate, and stir until the chocolate has melted. Cool completely before spreading onto the roll.* For another decadent 
filling try mascarpone and muscat cream— combine  
100 g mascarpone cheese,  100 ml thickened cream,  2 tablespoons icing sugar and 40 ml muscat and spread onto the roll.Method cont.
7. Once cool, gently unroll the sponge. Brush with the 
melted jam, spread with the whipped cream and roll up. dust with icing sugar and serve. keep refrigerated and covered for 1–2 days.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 402Tea cake
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
125 g unsalted butter, 
softened
180 g caster sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract3 eggs, at room 
temperature
250 g self-raising flour, 
sifted
125 ml milk
Topping
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon1 tablespoon caster sugar
 
* You will need— mixing 
bowl, electric mixer, weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, sieve, 20-cm or 22-cm cake tin, pastry brush and  wire rack.
* Another method that works 
quite well is to place all the cake ingredients into a bowl and beat for 4– 5 minutes 
until pale, then pour into the cake tin and bake.
* For a lemon tea cake— add 
the zest of 1 lemon to the batter and replace the cinnamon with lemon juice.
* For a simple apple tea 
cake—peel and core 1 large 
Granny Smith apple, quarter and thinly slice, then arrange the apple slices, overlapping slightly, over the cake batter before baking. Brush with butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
* For the apple tea cake, 
make a simple crumble mixture to go over the top of the sliced apples before the cake goes in the oven. Rub 50 g cold butter into 50 g plain flour, then mix in 50 g caster sugar.
* For a pear tea cake— 
peel, core and quarter  2 pears and thinly slice, overlap slightly on the cake batter, then sprinkle with  2 tablespoons soft brown sugar before baking.
* Tea cake is served hot 
soon after coming from the oven, although it can freeze well when cooled; defrost and microwave briefly before 
serving.Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180ºc. line a cake tin with 
baking paper.
2. Place the butter, sugar and vanilla in a mixing 
bowl and beat with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. scrape the sides to make sure all ingredients are combined. add the eggs, one at a time, making sure each is fully incorporated before adding the next.
3. fold in the flour and milk in 2 batches. Pour into 
the prepared tin and bake for about 30 minutes or until the cake is cooked when tested with a wooden skewer.
4. remove from the oven and rest in the tin for  
5 minutes before turning out onto a wire rack. add topping while the cake is still hot.
5. for the topping—melt the butter and brush over the 
top of the cake. Mix the cinnamon and sugar and dust evenly over the top. serve warm.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries 403-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Toffee
Makes 12 to 15
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 12–15 paper 
cupcake cases, saucepan and 
wooden spoon.
* For toffee apples, prepare 
12 small red delicious, or another sweet eating apple, by washing, drying and pushing an icy-pole stick into the base of each apple. Mix 900 g white sugar with 250 ml water in a saucepan and bring to the boil. When the sugar has dissolved, stir in 
½ teaspoon cream of 
tartar and 2 teaspoons red food colouring. Reduce the heat and simmer the syrup until it reaches hard crack stage—about 20 minutes. 
Remove from the heat and when the syrup stops bubbling, dip in 1 apple at a time, tipping the saucepan on an angle to thoroughly coat the apple. Place on a tray lined with baking paper. Repeat with remaining apples. Allow to cool to room temperature before storing.
* There is a large range 
of decorative toppings available in the supermarket. Traditionally topped with hundreds and thousands, have fun with the many variations of sprinkles, decorative sugar flowers, cachous or alphabet letters made from sugar.
* Toffees can be made up to 
a week in advance and stored in an airtight container.
* For coloured toffees add 
1–2 teaspoons of liquid food 
colouring at the end of the cooking, just as the mixture is removed from the heat.* The caramel will take 
about 15 minutes, so it is important to stay at the stove top to ensure it doesn’t burn. If you own a sugar thermometer, then cook to the ‘crack’ stage, which is 160°C.
* It is important to 
decorate toffees while they are still hot and runny so the decorations stick and set with the toffees. Allow at least 15 minutes for them to set before moving.
* Toffees are another 
favourite for school fetes and kid’s parties.
* Spraying the paper cases 
with oil stops the toffees from sticking as much when the kids eat them.450 g white sugar
200 ml cold water1 tablespoon brown vinegarsprinkles (optional)Method:
1. Lightly spray paper cupcake cases with oil.2. Place the sugar, water and vinegar in a saucepan. 
stir over medium heat until the sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil but do not stir. Cook until the syrup is golden brown.
3. remove from the heat and allow the bubbles to 
settle. Pour into the prepared paper cases. if desired, decorate with sprinkles.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 404Vanilla slice
Makes 6–8 slices
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 sheets frozen puff pastry, defrosted
250 g white sugar60 g custard powder75 g cornflour1 litre milk60 g unsalted butter2 egg yolks1 teaspoon vanilla extractsifted pure icing sugar
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 200ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper. line a square baking dish with foil, allowing the foil to drape over the edges of the dish.
2. Place the pastry sheets on the prepared baking tray 
and bake for 15 minutes until browned and puffed. remove and cool.
3. Trim the cooked pastry sheet to fit the baking dish 
then place 1 pastry sheet in the base of the lined dish.
4. for the custard—combine the sugar, custard powder 
and cornflour in a large saucepan.
5. Mix in just enough milk to form a paste, then 
gradually mix in the rest of the milk—this will prevent lumps from forming.
6. Bring to a simmer, stirring constantly (use a whisk 
to keep the custard smooth), and simmer for a further  3 minutes. remove from the heat and stir in the butter, egg yolks and vanilla.
7. Pour the custard onto the puff pastry base. Top with 
the second piece of pastry.
8. Dust with the icing sugar or spread with a layer of 
basic icing for cakes. refrigerate for at least  3 hours or until cold, then cut into 6 or 8 pieces. The slice will last for 3–5 days covered and refrigerated.Cakes, BisCuits and Pastries-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
405* You will need— 22-cm 
square baking dish, aluminium 
foil, baking paper, flat baking tray, cutting board, cook’s knife, large saucepan, wooden spoon, whisk, plastic spatula and liquid, spoon and weight measures.
* Puff pastry can be 
substituted with ‘Sao’ biscuits (no cooking required).
* For a rich custard filling  
that is super light and fluffy, try the following recipe— 500 g pastry cream  
(freshly made and hot), 5 gelatine leaves, 600 ml thickened cream, 100 g icing sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Once the pastry cream is made, set aside and keep hot. Soak the gelatine in cold water until softened. Place the softened gelatine in a small saucepan and melt over medium heat, add a large spoonful of the pastry cream and whisk. Remove from the heat and whisk in the remaining pastry cream until smooth. In a bowl, whisk the cream, icing sugar and vanilla until soft peaks form. When the custard has cooled to room temperature, beat the cream into the custard and pour onto the prepared puff pastry base. Top with the puff pastry lid and cover with icing. Refrigerate overnight.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
cocoa powder to the mixture before cooking. Chocolate slice, although tasty, is not traditional and would never win a prize at the national vanilla slice competition held in Ouyen, in Victoria’s northwest. Traditional will always win out.
* The thickness is 
determined by the dish the slice is set in. A larger dish (30-cm) will mean a shallow vanilla slice. A  20-cm or less dish will mean a very thick slice that is too big for the mouth to get around.------------------------------------
13.  Toppings xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 408-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic icing
Makes about 1½ cups 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— bowl, spoon 
and weight measures and 
wooden spoon.
* For basic chocolate 
icing—add 1½–2 tablespoons 
cocoa powder with the icing sugar.
* Pure icing sugar is 
different to icing sugar mixture. Icing sugar has a starch (cornflour) added to keep it from hardening with age. Icing mixture can be used in icings but is not recommended for baking as it is not a pure form of sugar and can have an effect on the recipe. If you’re gluten-intolerant, use pure icing sugar rather than icing sugar mixture.250 g pure icing sugar
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla essence1 tablespoon boiling waterMethod:
1. sift the icing sugar into a bowl. add the butter 
and vanilla, then pour in the boiling water and beat well.
2. spread immediately over the cake and leave to set.Toppings 409-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— weight and 
spoon measures, wooden spoon 
or electric mixer, bowl and plastic spatula.
* For orange frosting— add 
the zest of 1 orange. Be sure to wash the orange before grating the zest to remove any dust and wax. Substitute the orange with the zest  of 1 lemon, 2 limes or  2 mandarins. Use specifically on orange cake, banana cake, hummingbird cake and carrot cake with the butter and cream cheese.
* Replace the vanilla 
essence with 1 tablespoon fresh passionfruit pulp.Cream Cheese frosting
Makes about 2 cups 
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
60 g unsalted butter, 
softened
125 g cream cheese, 
softened
250 g pure icing sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla essenceMethod:
1. Use a wooden spoon to beat the butter and 
cream cheese until soft and thoroughly combined. Alternatively use the (K) paddle on an electric mixer.
2. stir in the icing sugar and vanilla (or use the 
slowest setting on the electric mixer) until a smooth paste is formed. Whip or beat on high for 2–3 minutes until light and fluffy. spread over the cake.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 410-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— weight, 
spoon and liquid measures, 
heatproof bowl, saucepan or a microwave-proof bowl, wooden spoon and electric mixer.
* As the name suggests, 
devil’s chocolate frosting is for devil’s food cake. This frosting is equally good on vanilla or chocolate cake, as well as cupcakes.
* Thickened cream is an 
Australian style of cream that has a thickening agent added. For more on Cream see Really Useful Information. This recipe will work just  as well with any cream with  a minimum fat content of  35 per cent.* I recommend using pure 
icing sugar, but you could try icing sugar mixture, which has a small amount of cornflour added.Method:
1. Gently melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl over 
a saucepan of simmering water or in the microwave set on low. cool to room temperature.
2. Mix the sugar and butter with a wooden spoon, then 
mix in the melted chocolate and vanilla.
3. heat the cream to luke warm, stir into the 
chocolate mixture and beat with an electric mixer for 2–3 minutes or until thickened.180 g dark cooking 
chocolate
500 g pure icing sugar125 g unsalted butter, 
softened
1 teaspoon vanilla essence100 ml thickened creamDevil’s chocolate frosting
Makes about 4 cups xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxToppings 411-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Custard
Makes about 3 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
bowl, whisk, wooden spoon, 
sieve, and spoon, liquid and weight measures.
* This is a real custard, 
also known as a ‘crème Anglaise’ or ‘English custard’.
* Because there is no flour 
in this recipe, there is a real chance the custard could curdle or separate if it is cooked for too long or too fast over high heat. Should this happen, one way to try and fix it is to use a hand-held blender; this will help disperse the curdled egg in the mixture though it results in a different consistency. Cool as quickly as possible by placing in an ice bath, which means having a larger bowl than the one the custard is in and half-filling it with cold water and ice cubes.
* An option to avoid this in 
the first place— other than 
watching carefully how the custard is thickening— is 
to add 1 tablespoon cornflour (starch) to the egg yolk and sugar mixture before adding the hot milk. The cornflour will help hold the egg yolks even if overcooked; it will also mean a thicker custard, similar to the pre-made stuff.
* If using a vanilla bean in 
this recipe, it is advised to slice the vanilla bean in half lengthways before adding to the milk to allow the tiny black seeds to escape. Once the milk is brought to simmering point, remove from the stove and stand for  10 minutes for the vanilla to infuse before adding to the egg mixture. Then remove the bean and with the back of a small knife, scrape out as many of the black seeds and add to the mixture. The remaining vanilla pod can be rinsed under cold water, dried with paper towel and stored in the sugar jar to perfume the sugar, as well as being used again in a custard but without as much intensity.500 ml milk
½ vanilla bean, split 
lengthways, or  
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 egg yolks150 g caster sugarMethod:
1. in a medium saucepan, bring the milk and vanilla to 
a simmer and remove from the heat.
2. Use a whisk to beat the egg yolks and sugar in a 
bowl until light and fluffy.
3. pour the hot milk onto the egg mixture, whisking 
quickly as the milk is added.
4. Return the custard to the saucepan and over medium 
heat, stir constantly (in a figure 8 shape) with a wooden spoon until the mixture coats the back of the spoon.
5. strain the custard into a bowl or jug and serve, or 
refrigerate. serve hot or cold.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 412ItalIan merIngue
Makes about 2 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
60 ml water
300 g caster sugar1 tablespoon glucose (optional)5 egg whites
Method:
1. Place the water, sugar and glucose in a saucepan 
and bring to the boil. Place a sugar thermometer in the syrup once it comes to the boil.
2. When the sugar reaches 110°c on the thermometer, 
whisk the egg whites with an electric mixer until firm peaks form. constantly watch the sugar thermometer, remove the syrup from the heat once it reaches 120°c (soft ball stage).
3. Turn the electric mixer to the slowest speed and 
slowly pour the hot sugar syrup into the egg whites in a thin steady stream. continue to beat on slow until all the syrup has been added, then increase the speed to medium and continue beating until the mixture is cool, about 15 minutes. The meringue is now ready to use on or in any number of popular desserts or icings.Toppings-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
413* You will need— saucepan, 
liquid, weight and spoon 
measures, sugar thermometer, electric mixer with whisk attachment and plastic spatula.
* To make this successfully, 
you will need a sugar thermometer.
* Italian meringue can 
be kept for 2 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
* Glucose is not necessary 
in the recipe and the meringue will work well without it. Glucose will, however, prevent sugar crystals from forming around the edge of the bowl or in the egg whites.
* Scoop the mixture into 
a piping bag and pipe the meringue onto cooked puddings or Bombe Alaska. The meringue is cooked from the sugar syrup, so it does not need to go into the oven. To brown, simply use a blow-torch, being extremely careful as it will burn very, very easily.
* Another form of cooked 
meringue is Swiss meringue—combine 3 egg whites and 300 g pure icing sugar in a heatproof bowl. Place the bowl over a saucepan of boiling water and beat the mixture until thick and glossy. Remove from the heat, transfer to an electric mixer and whisk until completely cold. This dense, firm meringue can then be piped into decorative shapes or simple meringue nests and placed on a lined baking tray and cooked in a preheated 120ºC oven until crispy, about 1
½ hours.
* To make shogi sticks that 
are used to decorate the outside of cakes— add to the 
cold beaten Swiss meringue, 40 g sifted cocoa powder and 200 g roasted hazelnut meal. Then pipe into sticks the size of a little finger and bake for 10– 15 minutes 
in a preheated 180ºC oven. Leave to cool before removing from the tray. Store in an airtight container for  7 days.
* Italian meringue is used 
in butter cream— make the 
recipe quantity of Italian meringue, although increase the sugar by 100 g to total 400 g. Follow the method to the end, but keep the mixer whisking at medium speed and begin adding, in small amounts, 500 g softened, unsalted butter. Do not be inclined to add it too fast or the mixture might split. Beat for a further few minutes. The butter cream is now ready for use on or in cakes and biscuits. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks in the refrigerator or frozen in smaller batches for up to 3 months. Leave at room temperature for a least  1 hour before using. Butter cream made from Italian meringue is beautiful as it is not sickly sweet or overly rich the way butter cream made with just butter and sugar can be.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 414Lemon curd
Makes approximately 900 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
5 egg yolks
500 g caster sugarzest of 4 lemons200 ml lemon juice 
(approximately  4 lemons)
150 g butter, diced
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
saucepan, juicer, grater, whisk, plastic spatula, weight and liquid measures,  2 bowls, and jars for storage.
* Lemon curd is also known 
as ‘lemon butter’ and ‘lemon cheese’.
* It is important to use 
the double boiler method to control the heat and prevent the eggs from scrambling. It also produces a smoother texture by cooking the curd slowly over simmering water.* Lime juice produces a good 
albeit tarter alternative.
* For passionfruit curd— use 
200 ml strained passionfruit pulp then add 1 tablespoon of the seeds back into the juice.
* Lemon curd can be used as 
a spread on warm toast or scones. It can also be used as a filling for tartlets and cakes—either as a frosting 
or sandwiched in a sponge cake or Swiss roll.
* To make juicing lemons 
easier, roll the lemon on the benchtop, applying pressure with the palm of your hand; this ‘bruising’ tenderises the membranes within. Alternatively, try microwaving the lemon for 20–30 seconds before juicing.Method:
1. Place about 10 cm of water in a saucepan and bring 
to a simmer.
2. Place in a heatproof bowl over the saucepan but 
do not let it touch the water. Mix the egg yolks and sugar until combined and stir in the zest and juice. add the butter and place over the simmering water. use a whisk or plastic spatula to stir the mixture constantly until it heats through and begins to thicken. remove from the heat, strain into a clean bowl and stir until slightly cooled.
3. Transfer to sterilised jars, cover and refrigerate 
until needed. The lemon curd will last for up to  1 month refrigerated.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Toppings 415-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Pastry cream
Makes 700 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— weight 
and liquid measures, bowl, 
small paring knife, whisk and saucepan.
* Pastry cream is a staple 
of all pastry cooks. It is used in a vast array of sweet treats from fruit flans, éclairs and profiteroles to soufflé bases, crème chiboust and mousselines.* Use a stainless steel 
bowl, saucepan and whisk when making this recipe. Using aluminium will make the pastry cream turn grey and taste metallic.
* Once the vanilla bean 
has been used, wash and pat dry. Leave to air dry for a few hours then store in the sugar container to scent the sugar. It can be used again (with less pungency) to make another pastry cream.* Replace the plain flour 
with gluten-free cornflour for a coeliac-friendly recipe.
* To make a chocolate pastry 
cream, replace 1 tablespoon flour with 1 tablespoon cocoa powder and add 1 tablespoon more of sugar.500 ml milk
1 vanilla bean, split 
lengthways
5 egg yolks150 g caster sugar50 g plain flour, siftedMethod:
1. place the milk and vanilla bean in a saucepan, and 
bring just to the boil. Remove from the heat and stand for 10 minutes to allow the vanilla to infuse.
2. Whisk the egg yolks and sugar until pale. Add the 
flour and stir until combined.
3. Remove the vanilla bean from the milk and, with the 
back of a small knife, scrape the tiny black seeds from the bean and add to the egg and sugar mixture.
4. pour a quarter of the milk into the egg mixture and 
stir to loosen the mixture, then add the remaining milk and mix well.
5. pour the mixture back into the saucepan, stir 
continuously over medium heat and bring to the boil. Boil for 2 minutes and remove from the heat.
6. pour the pastry cream into a bowl and place a piece 
of plastic wrap directly on the custard to prevent it from forming a skin. Cool completely before using. Keep covered and refrigerated for up to 5 days.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 416MarMalade
Makes about 5 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg seville oranges
juice of 1 lemon
½ teaspoon cooking salt
3 litres cold water
3–4 kg white sugar
Method:
1. Wash the oranges thoroughly to remove any dust, 
dirt and wax. slice the top and bottom from the oranges and discard.
2. slice the oranges thinly, remove and keep any 
seeds. Wrap the seeds from the oranges and any from the freshly squeezed lemon in muslin or cheesecloth and tie with cooking string.
3. Place the sliced oranges, salt and muslin bag 
of seeds in a large ceramic bowl or stainless steel pot and add the cold water. cover and refrigerate overnight.
4. The following day, measure the volume of water and 
fruit before placing the fruit, muslin bag and water into a heavy-based saucepan. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat and simmer for 30–40 minutes or until the orange rinds are tender.
5. Measure the sugar to equal the volume of the orange 
and water (about 3.6 kg). add the sugar and lemon juice to the hot orange mixture and bring to the boil, remove any froth or scum that forms on the surface.
6. cook until it becomes a jelly consistency, about  
20 minutes. This can be tested by spooning a small amount onto a plate and refrigerating for 5 minutes; when pushed with your finger, it will have a wrinkly skin. if it is not ready, keep boiling and testing every 5–10 minutes until it is at setting point.Toppings 417 
* You will need— large 
5-litre pot or bowl for 
soaking the fruit, cutting board, cook’s knife, spoon and weight measures, wooden spoon, muslin or cheesecloth, cooking string, juicer, ladle and jars with lids for storage.
* Seville oranges are very 
sour and have a high pectin level, which significantly helps in the gelling of the marmalade. Marmalade made with sweet oranges struggles to set properly without added setting agents; they also lack the bitterness— the 
determining factor in a good marmalade— producing 
something that resembles an orange jam rather than a marmalade.
* Like any preserve, always 
use the best and freshest fruit available, void of any blemishes or rot.
* Soaking the fruit for 
24 hours helps to soften the rind and remove some bitterness. It also reduces the cooking time and keeps the fruit in the marmalade tasting fresh.
* Using the seeds from the 
freshly squeezed lemon as well as from the oranges helps to gel the marmalade.
* Other citrus fruits 
ideal for marmalade include cumquats, lemons, limes and grapefruits.
* Citrus fruits are often 
coated with a wax which is hard to remove. It is best to buy fruits that are sold as ‘unwaxed’ to avoid damage when scrubbing them yourself.
* If you own a sugar 
thermometer, the setting point for the marmalade is 105ºC. Remove from the heat and rest for 20 minutes before bottling in hot sterilised jars.
* For tips on how to 
sterilise jars, see Basic Preserving.Method cont.
7. Discard the bag of seeds and remove the marmalade 
from the heat. set aside for 15 minutes to allow the marmalade to cool slightly and the pieces of fruit to settle throughout the mixture; the fruit will float to the top if poured into jars immediately.
8. pour into sterilised jars and store for up to  
6 months. Refrigerate after opening.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 418Strawberry jam
Makes about 3 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
400 g white sugar
500 g strawberries, hulled50 ml lemon juice plus any seeds
Method:
1. To sterilise the jars to be used, see Basic 
Preserving. Place 2 saucers in the freezer (to check the jam’s consistency later). Preheat the oven to 140ºc.
2. Place the sugar in a cake tin and place in the 
oven.
3. Place the strawberries, in a heavy-based saucepan, 
add the lemon juice and seeds and slowly bring to the boil over medium heat.
4. after 10 minutes, slowly stir in the warmed sugar, 
increase the heat to high and boil until the sugar dissolves and the jam thickens, about 15 minutes. stir occasionally to prevent the jam from sticking to the bottom of the pot. remove any scum that may have formed on the surface.
5. Test the jam by placing a teaspoonful onto a 
chilled saucer, place back in the freezer for  30 seconds, then remove and run the handle of the spoon through the jam; it should wrinkle around the edges when done. if not, continue to boil for another 5 minutes and test again on the second cold saucer.
6. When the jam is ready, remove from the heat and 
leave to stand for 15 minutes for the fruits to settle evenly. (hot jam poured immediately into the jars can cause the fruit to rise and sit at the top of the jam.) remove any seeds that were added and discard. While still warm, pour the jam into the sterilised jars. seal the jam jars, label with a name and a date. store in a cool, airy, dry, dark place for up to  1 year. refrigerate once opened.Toppings-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
419* You will need— cutting 
board, paring knife, juicer, 
heavy-based saucepan, wooden spoon, weight and liquid measures, cake tin and jars for storage.
* The yield from this recipe 
varies depending on the ripeness of the fruit and the time taken to reach setting point.
* The amount of sugar used 
in a jam recipe depends on the ripeness or tartness of the raw fruit. With this in mind, a very general rule of thumb is that the fruit and sugar quantities are close to equal.
* It is always recommended 
to make any jam in small batches to maintain the flavour and integrity of the fruit. Never exceed more than 1 kg fruit at a time. Cooking a large batch of fruit for too long to get it to reach setting point can break down the fruit to the point of losing valuable flavour.
* The faster the jam is 
cooked, the more it will retain its colour and flavour.
* It is important to remove 
any scum that develops as the fruit and sugar mixture comes to the boil and before packing as it tends to solidify, is unsightly and may cause fermentation of the jam.
* Always use a premium fruit 
when making jam.
* Try adding 2 pieces of 
lemon or orange zest to the jam for added flavour. Be sure to wash the zest and remove any pith (white flesh) before adding at the beginning of cooking; then remove when removing the seeds.
* Warming the sugar before 
adding to the fruit is said to aid in maintaining clarity in the jam as the warm sugar dissolves faster, allowing the jam to reach setting point sooner. The sugar  added to a cake tin or tray should be no deeper than  3 cm nor should it be spread too thinly, which allows the sugar to start to melt. This heating process should take about 10 minutes, about the same amount of time it takes to slowly bring the strawberries and lemon juice to the boil.
* Other berries adapt very 
well to this recipe— try 
blackberries, raspberries or mulberries. Try making a mixed berry jam using the best quality fruit in season.* This jam is ideal with 
homemade scones and whipped cream.------------------------------------
14.  Drinks xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 422Banana smoothie
Serves 1
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
6 ice cubes
1 ripe banana, chopped250 ml full cream or skim 
milk or soy milk
1 tablespoon honeyground cinnamon or nutmeg 
(optional)
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
and spoon measures and blender.
* Bananas need to be very 
ripe for a great smoothie. Look for bananas that have brown spots— called ‘sugar 
spots’— all over the skin as 
this is a classic sign that the starch in the bananas has turned to sugar.
* Freezing leftover bananas 
is a great idea. Bananas should be frozen when it is apparent that they will turn black and mushy before they are consumed. Peel and chop the bananas into 4 pieces and place in a plastic bag or airtight container before freezing. Peel bananas before freezing so the skin doesn’t freeze to the flesh. Cutting into 4 pieces means the banana is ready to go straight into the blender. As well, knowing that 4 pieces = 1 banana is handy if using frozen bananas in other recipes, such as banana cake which may call for 3 bananas (12 pieces).
* Smoothies are a great, 
high protein way to start the day.
* For a super-thick 
smoothie— replace the ice 
cubes with a scoop of ice-cream, and replace the milk with 1 cup natural or vanilla yoghurt.
* For a berry smoothie—
replace the banana with 1 cup of mixed berries or very ripe strawberries.
* For a healthy breakfast 
smoothie— try 1 cup fresh or 
toasted muesli blitzed with the ice, 
½ banana, ½ cup 
strawberries, 1 cup natural yoghurt (or milk) and  1 tablespoon honey.* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
peanut butter and  2 tablespoons wheatgerm to the mixture. Or nut meals can be added (2 tablespoons) to the above recipe to add protein.
* To ‘power-up’ your 
smoothie— replace the honey 
with molasses and add  1 teaspoon brewer’s yeast. Both molasses and brewer’s yeast are available at health food shops.
* To ‘iron-boost’ your 
smoothie— add 1 teaspoon 
magnesium supplement powder, available at health food shops.Method:
1. Place the ice in a blender and blitz to break up.2. add the banana, milk and honey and blend until 
smooth and thick.
3. serve immediately. sprinkle with a bit of ground 
cinnamon or nutmeg, if desired, before serving.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Drinks 423-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Eggnog
Makes about 8 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— 3 bowls, 
liquid and weight measures, 
and electric mixer.
* Eggnog has a long history 
and many tales about how it became known as ‘eggnog’ and what should and shouldn’t go into it. This book is not the vehicle to thrash out a debate over such matters but rather its aim is to provide one of the many versions of this festive heart warmer/stopper.
* The first controversy is 
the raw egg element in the recipe. Research shows that it is approximately 1 in 20 000 eggs that is said to carry potentially harmful bacteria. But for those concerned with statistics, then there is an alternative. Try cooking the eggs. This would mean NOT separating the yolks from the whites. Combine the sugar and eggs in a heatproof bowl, then add the rum. Place the bowl over a saucepan of simmering water (a double boiler) and whisk furiously and continuously until the egg mixture triples in volume, is thick and velvety— and any 
bacteria are dead. Add the brandy or cognac and milk and refrigerate until chilled. Whip the cream as directed and fold into the cooked ‘nog’. * For kiddies who want to be 
a part of the festivities, try the following. Use the cooked egg method in the previous tip and beat the eggs, sugar, 250 ml grape juice and 1 tablespoon vanilla extract over the double boiler until light and fluffy. Add the milk and chill. Fold in the whipped cream and serve. Apple juice or orange juice also work well.6 eggs, separated
180 g caster sugar125 ml white rum375 ml brandy or cognac500 ml milk500 ml thickened creamfreshly grated nutmegMethod:
1. Place the egg yolks and half the sugar in a bowl 
and whisk until light and fluffy.
2. stir in the rum and brandy or cognac and add the 
milk. Place in the refrigerator.
3. Whip the cream until soft peaks form (semi-
whipped). Fold the cream into the egg mixture and place back in the fridge.
4. Whisk the egg whites and half the remaining sugar 
with an electric mixer until stiff peaks form. Fold into the eggnog and refrigerate until serving. sprinkle with the nutmeg.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 424Hot cHocolate
Serves 2
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
600 ml milk
150 g quality dark 
chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons caster sugar
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
liquid, weight and spoon 
measures and small wooden spoon or whisk.
* A great hot chocolate is 
made using chocolate not cocoa powder.
* The chocolate is added to 
the milk away from the heat because the residual heat of the milk is more than enough to melt the chocolate and dissolve the sugar. It also cools the milk to avoid scalding your tongue.
* The obvious choice to 
finish off a hot chocolate is to add a couple of marshmallows to the mug. Or try simply dusting the top with powdered drinking chocolate (cocoa powder with added sugar).
* Try frothing the hot 
chocolate. For this you will need a hand-held blender or a benchtop blender. Pour half the hot chocolate into the mugs then blend the remaining half to create a fine froth, pour and spoon the froth into the mugs and serve immediately.
* For a naughty night cap, 
add 1 nip (30 ml) of your favourite bedtime drink. Cognac, brandy or whisky are very conservative, for a bit more fun try Bailey’s Irish Cream, Kahlua or Crème de Cacao.
* A decadent twist for the 
kids could mean replacing  the caster sugar with dark  brown sugar and adding  1 teaspoon vanilla extract—an extra marshmallow wouldn’t go astray either.
* If all that is in the 
pantry is cocoa powder, then try this— combine 1 cup water 
with 75 g cocoa powder in a saucepan, bring to the boil then add 500 ml milk and  2 tablespoons soft brown sugar. Bring back to the boil, remove from the heat and cool slightly. Serves 2.
* For a truly rich 
encounter, replace half the milk with pouring cream.
* For an easy dinner party 
idea, make the hot chocolate in advance. When ready to serve, reheat the hot chocolate, place a scoop of chocolate ice-cream into a coffee glass and top with hot chocolate.Method:
1. Bring the milk to the boil. remove from the heat, 
add the chocolate and sugar and stir until the chocolate has completely dissolved.
2. serve immediately (see hints and Tips for serving 
suggestions).
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Drinks 425-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Lemon and ginger tea
Serves 2
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
measure and teapot.
* If making a large pot 
of tea, invest in a teapot that has an infuser or use a coffee plunger. The ginger will not need to be removed but the flavour will intensify if left to rest for a long period of time.
* Honey can be added for 
sweetness.
* Only use fresh ginger for 
this; powdered or bottled ginger will not work at all.
* Try this tea when you have 
a cold and you need to soothe a sore throat.
* To make a stronger 
concoction for a sore throat use: 1 nip scotch, 1 teaspoon honey and 1 whole clove, allowing the ginger and clove to infuse for an extra  2 minutes.
* Try adding 1 native lemon 
myrtle leaf per person.
* Ginger aids digestion, 
stimulates the circulatory system, and can prevent nausea and travel sickness.
* Lemon is an antiseptic, 
aids digestion and stimulates the immune system which is why this tea is great when suffering from a cold.500 ml cold filtered water
½ lemon
5-cm knob of ginger, 
washed and slicedMethod:
1. Bring the cold water to the boil.2. squeeze the lemon into a teapot, chop the squeezed 
lemon into pieces and add to the pot with the ginger.
3. Pour in the boiled water then let rest for  
5 minutes before serving.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 426-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Lemonade
Serves 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— weight and 
liquid measures, saucepan, 
wooden spoon, cutting board, cook’s knife, juicer and 2-litre jug.
* It is not necessary to 
strain the lemon juice before adding. Any pulp that goes into the lemonade adds a certain homemade feel to the drink. Just be careful not to let the seeds go in.
* The lemon syrup can be 
made and stored separately. This lemon concentrate is ideal not just for lemonade but for adult drinks as well. Over ice, add a nip (30 ml) of vodka, tequila or gin, and 2 nips of lemon syrup then top up with sparkling mineral water or tonic water.* Oranges can replace the 
lemons to produce a much sweeter drink. Add to the orange syrup, 1 tablespoon orange blossom water, found in Middle Eastern grocers and health food shops.
* When limes are abundant, 
make the syrup with lime juice. You may need to increase the sugar content by as much as 100 g to counter their extra astringency.
* Once the lemonade is 
made, try adding 3 sprigs of mint. Bruise the mint with your fingertips before plunging into the jug of iced lemonade.
* Not all lemons are 
the same. The three main varietals are the Eureka, Lisbon and Meyer. The Meyer is the most prized with its thin skin and sweeter flavour.* Make double the recipe and 
freeze some of the lemonade as ice cubes, then add these lemonade cubes to the drink to prevent the lemonade from diluting.225 g white sugar
250 ml water250 ml lemon juice (about 
4–5 lemons)
1 litre still or sparkling 
mineral water
2 cups ice1 lemon, slicedMethod:
1. Place the sugar and water in a saucepan and bring 
to the boil. reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes or until the sugar dissolves.
2. remove from the heat and cool slightly, then add 
the lemon juice.
3. set the base lemon syrup aside to cool, add the 
mineral water, ice and slices of lemon and serve in a jug.Drinks 427-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, liquid 
measure, ladle and punch bowl.
* Punch, as in fruit punch, 
can be any combination of drinks, usually non-alcoholic, mixed with fruit juices and poured over ice.
* Fruit pieces add to the 
texture of the drink and mint adds fresh flavour and perfume.
* For an adult version, 
try adding 750 ml vodka or dark rum. Gin, Cointreau, Frangelico, white rum, Limoncello or Schnapps are also popular.
* Strangely, fruit punch 
appears to be out of fashion or is it that punch bowls are too daggy? Whatever the reason, punch is a brilliant kids’ party drink that must surely beat a boring bottle of fizzy drink sitting on a table.
* The ultra healthy version 
of punch consists of homemade fruit juices and your own mixture of crushed or finely chopped fresh tropical fruits.Punch
Serves 10
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 kg ice
500 ml orange juice500 ml pineapple juice250 ml peach or apricot 
nectar
100 ml lemon juice (about 
2 lemons)
500 ml dry ginger ale500 ml sparkling mineral 
water
400 g can crushed 
pineapple
1 small can passionfruit 
pulp
½ bunch mint, leaves 
washed and choppedMethod:
1. Place the ice in a large punch bowl (at least 
5-litre capacity).
2. Pour all the ingredients over the ice and stir with 
a ladle until well mixed.------------------------------------
15.  Basic  Recipes xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 430Apple, prune And spice stuffing
Makes about 4 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
50 g butter
1 small onion, finely diced2 bacon rashers, chopped100 g dried apple rings, chopped100 ml c alvados (apple brandy)
250 g fresh bread crumbs150 g pork mince2 eggs1 Granny s mith apple, grated with skin on
1 cup pitted torn prunes1
½ teaspoons mixed spice
100 g pine nutssalt and pepper
Method:
1. Melt the butter in a pan, add the onion and bacon 
and cook until softened with little colour. set aside to cool.
2. soak the dried apple in the calvados for  
20 minutes.
3. Mix the bread crumbs, mince, eggs, chopped dried 
apple, grated apple, prunes, mixed spice, nuts and seasoning in a bowl. add the cooled onion and bacon and mix until thoroughly combined.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
431* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s kife, sauté 
pan, wooden spoon and cup, spoon, weight and liquid measures.
* Use this stuffing inside 
a whole turkey, or press between the skin and breast meat on a turkey buffet. This requires the cook to use the fingers, to separate the skin without tearing from the meat. Do not force all the stuffing in as it will expand as it cooks.
* The pork mince in this 
recipe adds body and moisture to the stuffing but can be replaced with 150 g fresh bread crumbs if preferred. The eggs can also be replaced with 100 g melted butter or extra virgin olive oil.
* Chestnut and wild 
mushroom stuffing— this is 
a combination of fresh or tinned chopped chestnuts mixed with dried and reconstituted wild mushrooms imported from Europe and available at specialist delis and European-style produce stores. Use the basic recipe but replace the apples, prunes, pine nuts and spice with 200 g chestnuts and  100 g wild mushrooms (known as ‘forestiere’ mixture), soaked in hot water for  20 minutes. It is important to remember when straining the mushrooms after soaking, that sand will have collected at the bottom of the dish, so be careful not to strain that back into the mushrooms.
* Onion and sage stuffing—
use the basic recipe, but replace the apples, prunes and spice with another small onion (finely chopped) and  
¼ cup finely shredded fresh 
sage leaves.
* The stuffing could also be 
rolled into balls and cooked alongside the turkey roast, just add when there is  45 minutes of roasting time to go.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 432Beer Batter
Makes about 2½ cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g rice flour
20 g cornflour375 ml cold beer
½ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon paprika
Method:
Place all of the ingredients in a bowl and mix with a 
wooden spoon. stir until just combined. The mixture will resemble lumpy, runny cream. Do not strain, amazingly the lumps disappear when the batter is fried. use this batter immediately; the longer it sits, the more the air bubbles from the beer break down so the batter won’t be as light and crispy.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
433* You will need— bowl, 
wooden spoon and weight, 
liquid and spoon measures.
* There are many variations 
to this batter, but whichever recipe you use, it is still important to not beat or whisk the mixture as this works the flour (especially if using plain flour) too much, making a smooth but tighter and tougher batter. The less it is mixed, the lumpier and rougher looking it is, but it’s also lighter and crispier.
* Plain flour can be 
substituted for rice flour in this batter. However, wheat flours (plain or self-raising) contain gluten which when fried tend to absorb fat and moisture far more than non-gluten flours like rice or cornmeal.
* For non-beer drinkers, 
replace beer with soda water or sparkling mineral water—as long as it is ice cold. A very cold liquid means a very cold batter which helps keep it thick without adding extra flour. Adding extra flour causes the cooked batter to be to bread-like and chewy.
* If the batter is too thick 
(too much flour), the batter after frying will be crisp on the outside and wet and doughy on the inside.
* If the batter is too thin, 
there is the risk of it breaking apart when it hits the oil.
* If the oil is not hot 
enough, the batter will soak up the oil making greasy beer-battered food.
* If the oil is too hot, 
the batter will crisp and cook before the food on the inside. The oil temperature for frying batter should be between 170ºC and 180ºC—certainly no higher than 180ºC.
* The addition of  
¼ teaspoon bicarbonate of 
soda is optional but can produce extra bubbles in the batter to make it lighter.
* One egg white, whisked to 
soft peaks and folded into the batter, is another way to lighten the batter.
* For hits of flavour, try 
adding 1 teaspoon dill seeds or fennel seeds to the batter before frying. Cumin seeds or caraway seeds also provide an interesting character to the batter.* It is necessary to coat 
the food in flour before dipping in the batter. The flour provides a rough-textured surface for the wet batter to stick to; without it, the batter will mostly break away from the food being fried.
* For a fruit-friendly beer 
batter, try substituting regular bitter ale for a dessert beer or fruit beer, then whip 4 egg whites until soft peaks form and fold into the batter. Thread a strawberry or cut pieces of fruit onto a wooden skewer, dip into the batter and place into a pot of hot oil on the stovetop. Because the batter is so light, the fruit ‘fritters’ tend to be quite buoyant and you will need to roll the fritter around using the skewer sticking out of the pot. When golden, remove to a plate and dust with icing sugar. Serve with a fruit sauce, like raspberry, or chocolate sauce.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 434Blini
Makes about 20 small or 8 large
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
375 ml milk
125 g unsalted butter7 g sachet or 2
½ teaspoons dry yeast
100 g buckwheat flour50 g plain flour2 tablespoons white sugar
¾ teaspoon salt
2 large eggs, separated125 g butter, for frying
Method:
1. combine the milk and butter in a microwave-safe 
bowl; microwave on high in 1-minute increments until the butter is melted, stirring between each minute. cool slightly so the temperature is about 37ºc. sprinkle the yeast over the top and stand for about  5 minutes to dissolve the yeast.
2. combine the flours, sugar and salt in a separate 
mixing bowl. Pour the milk mixture over the dry ingredients, add the egg yolks and mix until just combined. cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and sit in a warm place for 1 hour or until the mixture is bubbly and has expanded by one-third. (at this point, the batter can be refrigerated overnight and the recipe completed the following day. allow the batter to come back to room temperature before continuing.)
3. Whisk the egg whites until soft peaks form and fold 
into the batter.
4. heat a nonstick sauté or frying pan over medium–
high heat. Melt 1 tablespoon of the remaining butter in the pan; drop small spoonfuls of batter into the pan to form small pancakes. cook until the edges look a bit dry and small bubbles form on the surface. flip to cook the other side. remove from the pan when the second side is browned. Move the cooked blini to a wire rack to cool. repeat with the remaining batter.Basic Recipes 435 
* You will need— liquid, 
weight and spoon measures, 
1 small and 1 larger bowl, whisk, wooden spoon, frying or sauté pan and cooling rack.
* Blini are traditional 
Russian pancakes that are usually served with sour cream and caviar. Blini is plural for the word ‘blin’ referring to a small pancake.
* Heating the milk and 
melting the butter can be done just as successfully in a saucepan on the stovetop. As long as the yeast is added at about body temperature, which is vital to activate the yeast.
* Although traditionally 
made with just buckwheat flour, the addition of a small amount of plain flour, which is common in Western cooking, lightens the mixture.* Making blini without yeast 
could be seen as a travesty; however, for cooks who are unsure of the workings of yeast or are simply in a hurry and can’t wait for the yeast reaction, simply skip this part of the method and continue with the recipe.
* Try adding ½ cup creamed 
corn and ¼ cup crab meat to 
the batter before folding in the egg whites, then top these blini with guacamole.
* The size of the blini 
depends entirely on their use. If serving as cocktail food, then 3– 5 cm diameter 
is ideal. For an entrée, the traditional size of 10 cm diameter is needed— blini are 
never any bigger than this.
* Cooking blini in a 
nonstick pan with spray oil is perfect if cutting back on fats.* Another traditional 
topping for blini is the very common, smoked salmon with crème fraîche and dill. Try topping with a small amount of your favourite dip and some fresh herbs. Other suggestions are cottage cheese and smoked trout or whipped Persian fetta with sundried tomatoes or taramasalata and fresh cucumber.Method cont.
5. Once cool, either use immediately or store in an 
airtight container in the fridge until needed. Blini freeze very well and will last for up to 3 months sealed in a bag or plastic container. simply defrost overnight in the fridge before using.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 436ChiCken stoCk
Makes 2–3 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
2 kg chicken necks or bones, rinsed in cold water
2 onions, skin on and quartered2 carrots, washed and roughly chopped2 celery sticks, roughly chopped1 bouquet garniwater
Method:
1. combine all the ingredients in a large pot and add 
enough cold water to cover the chicken bones by 5 cm.
2. Bring slowly to the boil, then immediately reduce 
the heat to bring the stock to a rolling simmer. simmer for 2 hours, topping up with cold water if it reduces to the level of the bones. have a ladle handy to remove any scum that floats to the surface—this is important (see hints and Tips).
3. after 2 hours, remove stock from the heat and stand 
for 30 minutes before straining through a fine sieve or colander lined with muslin cloth. allow to cool on the bench before placing in the fridge or freezing.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
437* You will need—  cutting 
board, cook’s knife, large 
stock or soup pot and fine sieve or colander and muslin cloth or cheesecloth.
* It is important to rinse 
the bones before cooking to remove excess blood and fat, the impurities that would otherwise turn the stock cloudy. A good stock, if done properly and not rushed, will always be clear.
* One option is to place the 
bones only in the pot, add water to cover, bring to the boil, drain and rinse under cold water. This ‘blanching’ of the bones ensures that most of the impurities are removed. It is argued that this initial cooking extracts flavour, but this is not the case— the reason 
stock is cooked for as long as instructed is because it takes that long to permeate the bones for maximum flavour.
* It will always be insisted 
upon to begin any stock with cold water. This is because cold water, even ice cold water will set the otherwise soluble and loose proteins in and around the bones. If hot water is used to begin the stock, the proteins begin to dissolve into smaller particles and as such, a cloudy, grey liquid will then turn into a dull and murky finished stock. The flavour would also be impeded, tasting a bit like soapy dishwater.
* The skin on the onions 
is not to be removed. The pigmentation of the skin can lend a very slight straw colouring to the stock.
* If a brown chicken stock 
is asked for, then place the raw bones on a roasting tray—lined with baking 
paper to save on washing the tray—then place in a very 
hot oven to brown. This, in effect, is like blanching the bones before making a stock, in that it cooks most of the proteins through, leaving very little to cloud the stock. The resulting stock should take on a good caramel colour.
* Vegetables in a meat stock 
play a very small role, so much so, that they can be entirely unnecessary if all that is needed is a pure meat flavour. Vegetables and spices lend only a slightly sweet flavour and aroma to a stock. The Chinese, for example, do not like adding vegetables to their ‘master’ stocks as they believe that vegetables absorb valuable meat flavours, especially when you consider that a meat stock can simmer for as long as 12 hours compared to a vegetable stock  
which takes only 45 minutes to cook.
* A meat stock will last 4– 5 
days in the fridge. If unsure how long the stock was in the fridge, say 6– 7 days, it may 
still be okay. Stock should always be boiled before use and a tell-tale sign of a stock that is way passed due date is when it has a life of its own and begins to bubble in the fridge. A stock that may have only just gone off will have a very slight sour taste to it.
* It is recommended that any 
leftover stock be frozen for another day. Frozen stock will last 3– 4 months but is 
best used within a month as the water crystals begin to ‘take over’ the ‘flavour’ crystals. Freezing in 1-cup volumes is recommended as is freezing in ice cube trays and then transferring to plastic bags.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 438Clarified butter
Makes approximately 375 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g unsalted butter
Method:
1. chop the butter into cubes and place in a saucepan. 
Bring gently to the boil and reduce the heat to low.
2. as the butter cooks, three layers will form. a 
white scum collects on the surface; this is the whey and needs to cook until the water evaporates from it, leaving a skin that can be easily removed with a spoon. (often cooks will stand constantly over the pot removing the white foam wondering if it will ever stop forming, it is best just to let it evaporate.) The bottom layer is the casein and the middle layer is the butterfat, a clear, golden liquid used in cooking.
3. once the skin has been removed, stand for 5 minutes 
to cool slightly, then pour the fat away from the casein into a clean container. The clarified butter can be stored, sealed, at room temperature, but is best kept refrigerated.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
439* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
saucepan, spoon and container for storage.
* Clarified butter has had 
water, milk solids and any salts (if using salted butter) removed.
* Clarified butter is popular 
in cooking because it is a pure fat that cooks at higher temperatures compared to butter, which browns quickly because of the milk solids.
* Take into account that 
approximately 25 per cent of the original weight will be lost to skimming and straining. So for every 500 g of butter clarified, about  125 g is wastage, leaving roughly 375 g clear  butter fat.
* Another name for clarified 
butter is ‘drawn’ butter, more common in North American cookbooks.
* One of the best known uses 
for clarified butter is for hollandaise sauce. It is also favoured in genoise cakes and madeleines where butter is melted not creamed.
* Clarified butter stores 
better than regular butter, up to 6 months, refrigerated. This is because the milk solids are a protein, and like all proteins, their shelf life is limited, so when the proteins begin to break down, the butter fat is affected and turns rancid.
* Ghee, the purest form of 
clarified butter (all water has been removed), is used heavily in Indian cooking. It is found in all supermarkets, and Indian and Middle Eastern food stores. Ghee has a nuttier flavour than the French style of clarified butter as it is cooked for slightly longer. This process cooks the casein residue that sinks to the base of the pot, browning the casein and in turn providing the distinct flavour. This is, of course, the easy answer to having clarified butter for cooking. Note, however, it is more expensive than butter because of the extra process and packaging it must go through.
* For people who are 
lactose-intolerant, ghee (more so than homemade clarified butter) is digestible as the protein has been cooked out, leaving a lactose-free cooking fat similar to a vegetable or nut oil. Still, it is best to see your physician before ingesting this product.* Clarified butter and ghee 
can be used wherever oils are called for. In pastries, this style of butter is still semi-soft and creamy at room temperature, and aids in a flaky pastry.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 440Club sandwiCh
Makes 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
12 slices of bread
¾ cup mayonnaise
1 cos lettuce, leaves washed and dried
4 tomatoes, each cut into 4 thick slicessalt and pepper500 g cooked turkey breast, sliced16 streaky bacon rashers, crispy fried
Method:
1. for the first layer, toast 4 slices of the bread and 
place on the bench.
2. Begin toasting the next 4 slices of the bread.3. spread the first 4 slices with a quarter of the 
mayonnaise and top each with lettuce leaves and  4 thick slices of tomato. season with salt and pepper. This first layer is always meat free.
4. spread another quarter of the mayonnaise on the 
second batch of toast. Toast the last 4 slices of bread. Place the second batch of toast on the first layer, mayonnaise side facing the tomato. spread another quarter of the mayonnaise on the exposed toast and top with a layer of lettuce, sliced turkey and bacon. spread the remaining mayonnaise on the final batch of toast and place, mayonnaise side down on top of each sandwich. Pin the sandwiches together using the toothpicks, arranging in such a way that allows each sandwich to be cut into 4 diamond shapes. Without the toothpicks, the sandwiches may fall apart when served.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
441* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, frying 
pan, tongs, cup measure, toaster and 16 toothpicks.
* Also know as a ‘clubhouse 
sandwich’, it is thought to have originated at the Saratoga Clubhouse, Saratoga, New York, in 1894.
* This is the perfect way 
to use up leftover ham and turkey from Christmas, using sliced ham instead of the bacon, making for a very easy Boxing Day lunch idea.
* As this is such a large 
sandwich, one whole sandwich per person may be too much. Serve on a platter as a shared meal idea, allowing half a sandwich per person.
* Chicken breast or roast 
beef can easily replace the turkey breast as is often the case when served in restaurants.
* Marinated chicken 
thigh meat, grilled on the barbecue, is a great alternative and a cheaper option than breast meat. (Marinating is optional.)
* Iceberg lettuce, rocket 
or mixed lettuce leaves can replace the cos lettuce.* It is not recommended 
to make these sandwiches too far in advance, as the ingredients soften the toast and the desired effect is lost.
* Vary the flavour of  
the mayonnaise by adding  
½ teaspoon sliced bird’s eye 
chilli or 2 tablespoons pesto  
or 1 teaspoon wholegrain mustard.
* The type of bread used is 
simply a matter of taste. Traditionally made with basic squares of white bread, the use of grain breads, sourdough and crusty Vienna is fine.
* Adding other ingredients 
like avocado, cheese and cucumber, although fine, tends to add too many layers and extra thickness, and makes it even more difficult to wrap your mouth around the sandwich. It then isn’t a club sandwich but just a very BIG and ominous double-decker sandwich.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 442Crème fraîChe
Makes 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
300 ml thickened cream 
(minimum 35 per cent 
fat)
3 tablespoons buttermilk
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
bowl, spoon, and liquid and 
spoon measures.
* Crème fraîche is 
pronounced krem fresh.
* The number-one concern 
for cooks when deciding to make their own crème fraîche is hygiene. How can a cream product survive at room temperature (preferably a very warm area that can maintain approximately 40ºC) for so long without spoiling? This is due to the benign bacteria in the buttermilk which grow and protect the cream from any harmful bacteria forming.
* Crème fraîche is used 
in recipes because it adds a distinct flavour and it doesn’t split when cooked. This is because it is high in fat and low in protein.
* Crème fraîche thickens 
after it is chilled, so do not panic if it appears slightly runny before it enters the fridge.
* Do not substitute crème 
fraîche with sour cream if the dish is to be cooked over high heat as sour cream has a much lower fat content and will curdle in the heating process.
* For cold or gently heated 
sauces, crème fraîche can be substituted in equal measure with sour cream or yoghurt or with equal parts thickened cream and sour cream.* To make a herbed crème 
fraîche— mix into the basic 
recipe 1 tablespoon chopped fresh herbs; either a mixture of parsley, chervil, chives and basil, or a single herb flavour including any of the aforementioned or try oregano, sage, tarragon or mint.Method:
1. Pour the cream into a saucepan and gently heat to 
body temperature (37°c ) or slightly warmer— do not boil.
2. remove from the heat and stir in the buttermilk, then transfer to a clean bowl and cover with plastic wrap.
3. leave on the bench for 12–24 hours. stir once, cover 
again and refrigerate for 8 hours before using. crème fraîche will last in the fridge for 7–10 days and can be frozen in small amounts for up to 3 months.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic Recipes 443-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Croutons
Makes 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
saucepan, bowl, spoon, cup measure, baking tray, baking paper and airtight storage container.
* The main role of a crouton 
is to soak up the liquid to which the crouton has been added, whether that be salad dressing, soup, meat juices or even sauces.
* The most basic crouton 
recipe of all is to simply oven-dry bread cut in any fashion, with no butters or oil and no seasoning or flavours added. Once this style of crouton is made, it is ideal to blitz in a food processor to make bread crumbs.
* For great flavour— add  
1 tablespoon chopped fresh herbs or 
½ tablespoon dried 
mixed herbs to the butter or oil before tossing with the croutons.
* Two chopped garlic cloves 
can be added to the butter as it melts to infuse the flavour and produce a tasty garlic crouton. Garlic and herbs can be mixed together too.
* Cutting croutons into 
dice is only one method. Another popular method is to use a French stick, slice into rounds or on an angle approximately 
½ cm thick, 
then brush with melted butter or oil and dry in the oven.
* See French onion soup for 
another recipe for cheese croutons which can be used in a salad or simply as a snack for hungry kids after school.
* For large croutons served 
in a salad, use a sourdough loaf or French stick sliced into rounds 1-cm thick and brushed with garlic oil (see roasted garlic) then dried in the oven for 30 minutes at 100°C.2 cups stale crustless 
bread cut into 1-cm 
dice
½ cup melted butter, 
clarified butter, ghee or olive oilMethod:
1. preheat the oven to 180ºc. Line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. place the bread in a bowl and pour the butter or 
oil around the edge of the bowl, then using a spoon or your hands, quickly toss the croutons so as to evenly distribute the butter or oil.
3. spread evenly and in a single layer on the prepared 
baking tray, and bake for 20 minutes or until golden and crunchy.
4. Remove from the oven and cool. store the croutons 
in an airtight container in the fridge for up to  1 month or even longer if made with olive oil.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 4441 cup coriander seeds
½ cup cumin seeds
1 tablespoon fennel seeds
1 tablespoon fenugreek seeds1 cinnamon stick, broken into small pieces1 teaspoon whole cloves1 teaspoon cardamom seeds2 tablespoons ground turmeric2 teaspoons chilli powder2 tablespoons rice flour
Method:
1. it is important to toast the whole seeds to enhance 
their flavour and to make grinding them much easier. To dry fry the coriander seeds, place them in a frying pan and cook over medium heat, shaking the pan often to evenly toast, until the seeds begin to smoke. remove from the heat and place on a tray to cool. repeat this process by separately frying the cumin seeds, fennel, cinnamon, cloves and cardamom, placing each onto the tray to cool. it is fine to mix all the toasted seeds together when cooling.
2. once cool, begin the process of grinding the spices 
to a powder. sift the spice mixture through a coarse strainer to remove any husks and larger pieces of spice (you may prefer to skip this step to keep the spice mixture rustic).
3. Place the toasted and ground spices in a bowl and 
mix in the turmeric, chilli powder and rice flour. Transfer to an airtight container and store in a dry, dark place, away from sunlight. This curry powder, like all dry spice mixes, will begin to lose pungency and flavour from the moment it is stored and so it is recommended to use within 3 months for best results.Curry powder
Makes about 2½ cupsxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxBasic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
445* You will need— sauté or 
frying pan, baking tray, 
bowl, spoon, cup and spoon measures, mortar and pestle and container for storing.
* It is important to 
remember that there is no such thing as a curry powder in India. Curry powders, as we know them, were invented in the West. The closest thing India has to a curry powder is what’s called a ‘masala’, which can be a varied mixture of spices, herbs and seasonings and in any combination. So really this is a recipe for a masala rather than a curry powder. Curry pastes form the base for many of the curries produced in India, as well as other Asian countries like Thailand and Malaysia.
* It is important to 
toast the different seeds separately as they are all different shapes, sizes and weights and therefore cook differently, some toasting faster and more evenly than others. To rush this process could mean burning some of the spices, making the powder slightly acrid (bitter taste and smell).
* Making curry powder from 
scratch— although laborious—
produces a much more pungent and lively tasting curry compared to the pre-made, store-bought versions.
* If serious about making 
spice mixes, then investing in a spice grinder or coffee grinder is money well spent. Working from a mortar and pestle, albeit romantic, is also very hard work when making volumes of spice mixes.
* The degree of heat in 
a curry powder is simply determined by the amount of chilli powder in the recipe. This is a medium– hot mix to 
the average palate, and so adding another teaspoon of chilli powder will take it up a notch, whereas removing the chilli powder altogether will make it mild and child-friendly.
* Variations to this spice 
mix are many and it is encouraged that the cook omit 1 or 2 spices in favour of others. Only through experimenting will a suitable ‘masala’ be achieved.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 446Dashi stock
Makes 1 litre
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 small piece (about 30 g) 
kombu (dried kelp)
1 litre water
2 tablespoons dried bonito 
flakes
 
* You will need— saucepan, 
sieve, liquid and spoon 
measures.
* Dashi stock is the base 
for soups and simmered dishes in Japanese cuisine— most 
famous of all are miso soup  
and udon soup.
* There are several types 
of dashi made from kelp (seaweed), bonito flakes (skipjack tuna), dried sardines or dried shiitake mushrooms. They can be made using an individual flavour or a combination of  2 ingredients.
* For vegans and 
vegetarians, it is best to make either kombu dashi or hoshi-shiitake dashi. For kombu dashi— use the basic recipe and simply omit the bonito flakes. For hoshi-shiitake dashi— use the basic 
recipe but replace the kelp and bonito flakes with 4 large or 6 medium dried shiitake mushrooms and allow to soak for 15 minutes once removed from the heat.
* For niboshi dashi (sardine 
stock)— place 15 g small 
dried sardines (remove the heads) in 4 cups water and soak for 1 hour. Bring to  the boil and simmer for  2 minutes. Remove from the heat and strain.
* Dashi is definitely the 
easiest stock to make; however, if pressed for time, instant dashi stock— a powder that simply needs water added— is available 
at Japanese grocers and some supermarkets.* Fish-flavoured dashi stock 
(bonito or sardines) can be used as a quick fish stock if called for in other recipes.Method:
1. Wipe the kombu with a damp cloth (do not wash), add 
to the cold water in a saucepan and bring just to the boil. remove the kombu and discard.
2. sprinkle the bonito flakes over the stock and remove 
from the heat. as soon as the bonito flakes sink to the bottom of the pot, strain the stock and discard the flakes. cool and refrigerate. This stock keeps for 3–5 days in the fridge.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic Recipes 447-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Fish stock
Makes about 1 litre
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, knife, large pot, 
spoon, liquid and spoon measures, sieve, colander or muslin cloth. See p. 454.
* When buying fish trimmings 
and bones or heads, purchase only white, lean fish like whiting, snapper or blue eye. Do not use oily fish like salmon, trout, marlin or swordfish as the flavour is too strong and they will make the stock cloudy in appearance.
* Remove the eyes from the 
head as they can make the stock cloudy in appearance.* Fish stock should never 
boil during its making as fish gelatine breaks down at temperatures below boiling point.
* Refer to chicken stock as 
to why any stock is started with cold water, not hot.
* Fish stock is only cooked 
for 20–30 minutes because 
the bones are much finer than those of chicken (2– 4 hours 
cooking time) or beef and veal (6– 12 hours cooking 
time). Cooking for longer is said to make the stock turn bitter, which is rarely true and has more to do with the overcooked bones breaking down and causing the stock to turn cloudy and somewhat chalky. Maximum flavour and gelatine extraction occurs within a very short time frame and this is therefore a very easy stock to prepare.
* Do not panic if any of the 
ingredients listed in the recipe are not available—except, of course, the fish bones and the water— because 
a successful fish stock can still be made without one or all of the aromatics (vegetables, pepper, or even wine).
* Other flavours that can 
be added to the stock are: lemon zest (2 strips), thyme or lemon thyme (4 sprigs), fennel bulb (1 slice), or garlic (1 clove, sliced).1 kg fish trimmings, bones 
and head (eyes removed)
2 tablespoons olive oil
½ onion, chopped
1 celery stick, chopped
5 parsley stalks 
(optional)
10 white peppercorns250 ml white winecold waterMethod:
1. Rinse the fish trimmings in cold water to remove any 
impurities and blood.
2. in a pot, heat the oil and fry the onion, celery 
and parsley stalks (if using) without colouring, about 5–7 minutes.
3. add the fish trimmings, peppercorns and white wine 
and enough water to cover the fish. Bring to the boil and reduce heat to a simmer. skim any grey impurities that may float to the surface. simmer for 20 minutes.
4. Remove from the heat and pass through a fine sieve 
or muslin cloth-lined colander. Keep refrigerated for up to 5 days or place in the freezer for 3 months.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 448Fondue
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
350 g emmental cheese
350 g gruyère cheese1 tablespoon cornflour3 tablespoons kirsch350 ml white winejuice of 
½ lemon
pinch of nutmegpinch of ground white pepper
Method:
1. remove any rind on the cheeses and roughly chop 
into 
½-cm dice.
2. Mix the cornflour and kirsch together to form a paste.
3. heat three-quarters of the wine in a saucepan until 
warm but not boiling, then add the lemon juice and the cheese, 
½ cup at a time.
4. stir constantly over medium heat and simmer until the ingredients are melted and smooth. add the rest of the wine.
5. stir the cornflour/kirsch paste into the fondue and 
simmer for a further 2 minutes. Transfer the saucepan carefully onto a fondue burner to keep warm and serve immediately.
6. serve with bread chunks. Dip the bread into the 
fondue using a figure 8 motion with your skewer so as to swirl the mixture and keep it smooth. reduce the intensity of the flame as the fondue is consumed.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
449* You will need— cutting 
board, knife, weight, liquid 
and spoon measures, saucepan and fondue set.
* Fondue originated in 
Switzerland and has become famous around the world as a novel shared table dinner party dish.
* The idea of fondue is to 
use 2 or more cheeses heated with white wine and kirsch (a clear cherry brandy), then dip and swirl crusty, slightly stale bread into it.
* It is important to keep 
your eye on the heat as the fondue risks curdling if boiled even though alcohol is added to try and prevent this from happening.
* For a child-friendly, non-
alcoholic version, use apple juice instead of white wine. Chicken stock could also replace wine in this recipe with a pleasing result.
* Other cheeses to consider 
for fondue are raclette, comtè, beaufort, tilsit, appenzeller or even a cheddar. For an Italian twist, use a mixture of 350 g provolone, 200 g mozzarella and 150 g parmesan.
* The fondue is best cooked 
in a saucepan on the stovetop and then transferred to the pot from the fondue set. Using a ceramic pot to cook and serve the fondue is another good option.
* Adding lemon juice to the 
fondue is important as the acid helps to break down the protein in the cheese.
* Foods for dipping in 
fondue vary greatly. Try bagels or foccacia, salami, pepperoni, chorizo or ham, capsicum, artichoke hearts, steamed broccoli or cauliflower, or grilled zucchini or eggplant.
* If doubling the recipe 
for a larger crowd, the wine should not be doubled, add instead 500 ml to the recipe.
* If the fondue becomes too 
thick, return to the stovetop over medium heat and add some more wine. If it is too thin, mix another 1 tablespoon wine (or water) with another  1 tablespoon cornflour and mix through.
* Leftover fondue will set 
in the fridge overnight; it can then be used in omelettes and frittatas or re-melted and used as a cheese sauce on steamed vegetables.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 450Frittata
Serves 4 to 6
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
8 large eggs
100 ml water4 tablespoons grated parmesan cheese1 tablespoon chopped fresh flat-leaf parsleysalt and pepper75 g butter
Method:
1. Break the eggs into a bowl and add the water, 
parmesan, parsley and seasoning.
2. Beat the eggs lightly, just so the ingredients are 
mixed. if adding leftover vegetables or any meat, stir them into the mixture at this stage (see hints and Tips).
3. Melt the butter in a deep nonstick frying pan over 
medium heat.
4. When the butter is bubbling, pour in the egg 
mixture and reduce the heat to the lowest setting. cover the pan with a lid and cook until the frittata has set, about 15–20 minutes. check every 5 minutes and give the pan a shake to ensure it isn’t stuck to the bottom or burning.
5. When cooked, remove from the heat, place a large 
plate over the pan and turn the pan over, holding the plate with the other hand. The frittata should just fall out onto the plate. leave on the bench to cool before serving. if the frittata has stuck to the bottom of the pan, let it sit for a further 5 minutes and try again. if all else fails, use an egg flip or spatula to remove it from the pan.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
451* You will need— bowl, 
cutting board, cook’s knife, 
fork, weight and spoon measures, deep nonstick frying pan and large plate.
* Frittata, an Italian 
omelette, is a great way to use up leftover meat and vegetables for lunch the next day.
* A good formula for 
frittata is— for every egg, 
add a ¼ cup of ingredients, 
so no matter how big or small the frittata, the egg-to-filling ratio will be consistent.
* Any ingredients added to a 
frittata must be pre-cooked and cooled completely to avoid making the frittata soggy. Any seafood needs to be seared, chicken must be cooked through and vegetables steamed, boiled or roasted. Any of these ingredients must be cut or torn into small pieces before being stirred into the egg mixture, especially if the frittata is to be cut into small wedges and served as finger food.
* Frittata can also be baked 
in the oven which can cut the cooking time in half. To do this, preheat the oven to 180ºC, make the frittata, but only cook for 1 minute on the stovetop before placing the pan in the oven (make sure the pan handle is ovenproof) for 10–15 minutes.
* Frittata can be served as 
finger food with drinks or with a leaf salad for lunch, or as part of an antipasto platter with pickled vegetables, bean salad, marinated artichoke hearts, stuffed mushrooms and cured meats.
* Leftover frittata can be 
sliced and used as a sandwich filling— especially good in a 
French stick with lettuce and mayonnaise.
* This frittata recipe is 
for a base mixture and should have other ingredients added. Combinations include the following:
* Pancetta, scallop and 
sage—50 g fried pancetta, 
6–8 seared scallops, 8 torn 
sage leaves.
* Ham and pea— 200 g diced 
ham and 100 g defrosted frozen peas.
* Sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach— 100 g sun-
dried tomatoes, 150 g sliced and fried mushrooms, 100 g spinach leaves (cooked in 1 teaspoon olive oil then drained and chopped).* Potato and rosemary— 
300 g potato (roasted or steamed and cut into small pieces), 1 teaspoon finely chopped rosemary.
* Chorizo, prawn and 
chilli— 100 g sliced and 
fried chorizo sausage, 200 g prawns (peeled, cooked and chopped), 1 bird’s eye chilli (de-seeded and chopped).
* Olive, fetta and 
zucchini— ½ cup pitted black 
olives, ½ cup fetta cheese,  
2 small or 1 large zucchini (cut into cubes and fried in 1 tablespoon olive).The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 452Garlic bread
Serves 8
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
150 g butter, softened
2 tablespoons olive oil 
(optional)
4 garlic cloves, crushed2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh flat-leaf parsley or chives
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
pepper
2 french bread sticks
 
* You will need— bowl, 
wooden spoon, weight and 
spoon measures, cutting board, cook’s knife, bread knife, baking tray, foil and butter knife. A garlic press is optional.
* Use regular salted butter. 
The olive oil is optional and is added to keep the butter soft.
* The parsley can be 
replaced with any number of fresh herbs; however, many herbs are strongly flavoured so add only 1 tablespoon oregano, thyme, rosemary, sage or basil. Dried herbs can also be used, again only add 1 tablespoon.
* Try adding 2 tablespoons 
grated parmesan cheese to the basic recipe for extra flavour.
* Sourdough can be sliced, 
toasted, cooled and then buttered. Sprinkle with grated parmesan and toast under the grill or heat in a preheated oven at 220ºC until the cheese melts.
* Try pita bread— brush the 
tops with garlic butter, sprinkle with parmesan cheese, heat for 5 minutes in a preheated oven at 220ºC and cut into quarters.* The foil-wrapped bread can 
be cooked on the barbecue, turning the bread often, and will be ready in about 10 minutes.
* Once the bread has been 
buttered and wrapped in foil, it can be frozen for up to  6 months. To cook from frozen, allow 30 minutes at 170ºC in the oven.
* The garlic butter can also 
be made, wrapped in plastic wrap and frozen until needed. Allow to defrost overnight in the fridge before using.Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 180°c.2. for the garlic butter—combine the butter, olive 
oil, if using, garlic, parsley and pepper in a bowl  and mix with a wooden spoon until well combined.
3. slice the bread at 2.5-cm intervals, leaving the 
slices attached to the loaf at the base.
4. spread the garlic butter on either side of each 
slice.
5. Wrap the bread sticks in a double layer of foil and 
heat for 15 minutes in the oven.
6. remove from the oven, carefully peel back the foil 
and serve.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic Recipes 453-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Garlic confit
Serves 16
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— deep baking 
dish big enough to hold the 
garlic, cook’s knife and cutting board.
* When buying garlic, look 
for firm, blemish-free bulbs without visible signs of sprouting. If possible, buy only what is needed for the coming week.
* Garlic that has sprouted 
can still be used; simply remove and discard the green sprouting germ from the centre and slice or mince the remaining clove for stir-fry or pasta sauce. Sprouting garlic should not be used for confit or roasting whole.* The oil from the garlic 
confit is excellent when used for cooking— especially great 
on roast meats.
* Roasted garlic is easy to 
do and is very similar to confit. Prepare the garlic as per the method above. Place the garlic in the roasting tray and lightly drizzle a bit of oil over the top, cover with foil and bake at 180ºC for 50 minutes until very soft in the middle —then 
cool and refrigerate. Roasted garlic can be used in much the same way as garlic confit, but should be used within a week.
* Serve bulbs of garlic 
confit at dinner parties and as a starter served with goat’s cheese or tzatziki and toasted flat bread or grilled slices of sourdough bread drizzled with extra virgin olive oil.
* Use a few cloves of the 
garlic confit when mashing potato.
* Mix into a red wine sauce 
for use on roasted or grilled red meats.8 garlic bulbs
approximately 1 litre 
olive oilMethod:
1. preheat the oven to 130°c (110°c fan-forced).2. slice the top off the garlic—just enough to expose 
the garlic. place the garlic bulbs, cut side down, in a baking dish. add enough olive oil to reach three-quarters up the side of the garlic.
3. place in the oven for 1 hour, after which the 
garlic should be turned over and cooked for a further 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool. The garlic confit can be stored in the refrigerator for several weeks, in an airtight container, so the smell doesn’t permeate other foods in the fridge.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 454Lavosh
Makes about 450 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g plain flour
1 egg, lightly beaten150 ml water2 tablespoons poppy seeds20 ml vegetable or olive oil
¼ teaspoon sea salt
Method:
1. With a wooden spoon or your hand, start mixing the 
flour and egg in a bowl, gradually add the water. add the poppy seeds, oil and salt and continue to work the dough. you may or may not need all the water.
2. knead the dough until smooth and homogenous. allow 
to rest, covered with a tea towel or plastic wrap, for 20 minutes before rolling.
3. Preheat the oven to 200ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
4. roll by hand with a rolling pin, or through a pasta 
machine, depending on how rustic it needs to look. either way, the dough needs to be rolled thin, 1–2 mm.
5. cut to the desired shape, place on the prepared 
baking tray and bake until light golden in colour, about 12 minutes.
6. cool on a wire rack before storing in an airtight 
container for up to 10 days.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
455* You will need— bowl, 
spoon, liquid and weight 
measures, wooden spoon, rolling pin or pasta machine, baking tray, baking paper and wire rack.
* Lavosh is a versatile 
unleavened, yeast-free crisp bread that is easy to make at home. A pasta machine will give a quick result with minimum fuss.
* Lavosh is perfect to 
serve with cheese, dips and antipasto at a light lunch or dinner party.
* Try adding 1 tablespoon 
lemon zest to the recipe for a lovely flavour and aroma.
* Try replacing the poppy 
seeds with 1 tablespoon chilli flakes.
* Lavosh dough can be kept 
refrigerated for 3– 5 days, 
after which it will begin to grey and lose its fresh flavour. The dough freezes well for 1– 2 months. Defrost 
in the fridge before using.
* Cut the rolled out dough 
into different shapes. Use a round scone cutter to make a biscuit similar to a water cracker. Off-cuts can be reformed and rolled through the pasta machine again.* Dried herbs (1 tablespoon 
per recipe) are brilliant in this recipe— my favourites 
are rosemary or thyme.
* Once rolled and placed 
on the baking tray, try sprinkling with sea salt flakes or freshly ground black pepper, pressing the seasonings gently into the surface of the uncooked lavosh before baking.
* Broken pieces of lavosh 
can be kept and used in fattoush or panzanella.
* For church-goers looking 
for an unleavened bread for communion, make the lavosh plain, without any seeds, nuts, herbs or seasonings.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 456Nachos
Serves 4
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 large onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed2 tablespoons olive oil500 g beef mince425 g can chopped tomatoes2 teaspoons chilli powder2 teaspoons ground cumin
½ teaspoon salt
100 g black olives, pitted and chopped (optional)400 g can refried beans200 g bag corn chips150 g cheddar or mozzarella cheese, gratedsour cream, for serving (optional)guacamole, for serving (optional)
Method:
1. fry the onion and garlic in the oil over medium heat until softened. stir in 
the beef mince and cook until brown.
2. add the tomatoes, stir well, reduce heat to low and simmer for 30 minutes or 
until mixed thoroughly and thickened.
3. Mix in the chilli powder, cumin and salt. remove from the heat and stir in the 
olives, if using. set aside until needed.
4. spread a thin layer of refried beans over the base of a baking dish.5. spread a layer of corn chips over the beans, top with a layer of cheese, then 
add the beef mince. repeat until all the ingredients are used. or, since this recipe usually makes about 4 layers, you can divide all the toppings into  4 portions for even layering.
6. Microwave on high until heated through, about 6–8 minutes, or bake at 180ºc for 
20–30 minutes. serve warm with sour cream and guacamole dip, if desired.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
457* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, spoon 
and weight measures, wooden spoon, sauté pan and baking dish.
* How many young cooks do 
you think have ‘invented’ a version of this dish with great pride on the night and little recollection of it the next day? That is the sort of dish nachos is: even the most rank amateur cook can have a go and succeed.
* What can possibly go 
wrong? Too much cheese and the whole thing becomes a large weapon. Too much sauce and the corn chips go soggy. Too much heat and the corn chips and cheese burn. Too little heat and the cheese in the centre won’t melt. In other words there are basic things that can spoil a relatively easy dish.
* What makes for a good 
nachos? This question asked of any dish, anywhere, will get the same answer and that is—it depends on who’s 
eating it. Some love loads of cheese and little sauce, others prefer to skimp on the cheese and so on and so forth. Adhere to the basic rules applied in my method and by all means personalise your nachos based on the love of some ingredients over others. Cooking is interpretational, a cookbook is a only guide and the cook has the right to enhance a recipe based on personal preference, market forces or even budget. No questions asked.
* Nachos loves being served 
with ice cold beer and tequila— refer to the second 
tip. Enjoy!
* Naturally there are easier 
ways to construct nachos than the one I recommend. It usually involves buying everything pre-made.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 458Pasta dough
Makes approximately 500 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
500 g pasta flour or plain flour (see h ints and Tips)
1 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
Method:
1. using a food processor, blitz the flour and salt 
quickly before adding the eggs. Process until the dough begins to come together.
2. remove the dough from the machine and knead on a 
lightly floured benchtop. Work the dough for 5 minutes with your hands until it is smooth. cover and rest for 30 minutes before rolling out.
3. To roll out, cut the dough into 4 manageable 
pieces, roll out with a rolling pin, and pass each piece through the widest setting on a pasta machine. There is no need to dust the dough with flour as it rolls through, as this will only add more flour and make it heavy and stodgy when cooked.
4. continue to roll the pasta until it reaches the 
second last setting or even the last, depending on how thin you need it. after it is rolled, lightly sprinkle it with flour to stop it from sticking together. if cutting the pasta into shapes, allow it to sit and dry for 10 minutes before cutting.
5. To cook fresh pasta, bring at least 3 litres of 
water to the boil, add all the pasta at once, stir and cook for 2 minutes only, then drain and serve.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
459* You will need— bowl, pasta 
machine, rolling pin and food 
processor.
* Fresh pasta doesn’t need 
to be hung over a broom handle to dry out unless you plan on storing it in an airtight container for a month or two. Otherwise dust it in plenty of fine semolina and keep refrigerated for 2– 3 
days, after which it begins to turn grey.
* Pasta flour or 00 
flour—available at good 
delicatessens— is different 
to plain flour in that it has a higher gluten content, which means it can tolerate the constant stretching through a pasta machine without tearing; plain flour, being softer, needs to be handled gently when rolling.
* A gluten-free pasta can  
be made using— 250 g potato 
flour, 250 g rice flour,  
½ teaspoon salt,  
1-½ teaspoons xanthan gum, 
½ teaspoon guar gum, 4 eggs, 
1 tablespoon olive oil. Mix the flours, salt and gums together, make a well in the centre and add the eggs. Work the flour into the eggs and when a dough begins to form, knead the dough for  5 minutes. Allow to rest for 30 minutes before rolling out. Xanthan gum and guar gum are available from health food shops.
* Continental flour is a fine 
semolina also used for making pasta and is available at good delicatessens.
* Flours also have a 
moisture content making it difficult to be precise with the number of eggs (which vary in size), so the dough could become sticky or too dry. Therefore be ready to compensate by adding more flour if too sticky or some water should it be too dry and not coming together.
* See cooking pasta in the 
Really Useful Section for 
more tips on cooking pasta properly.
* Once the pasta is rolled, 
it is important to keep it from sticking together. This requires the cook to have a bowl of flour or semolina to one side so that the dough can be constantly dusted as it is rolled through the pasta machine. Once the pasta is cut to the desired shape, it will require more flour to be dusted over the cut pasta to account for the exposed edges which can become sticky. Shake off excess flour before dropping into the boiling water.* An important note for 
owners of a pasta machine —DO 
NOT WASH IT! Use a pastry brush to brush away excess or built-up flour on the machine. Washing will cause the components to rust, and any built-up flour to become pasty and set hard, as well as the rollers losing their very smooth surface.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 460Sweet paStry
Makes about 500 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g plain flour, sifted
125 g cold unsalted 
butter, diced
100 g caster sugarpinch of salt2 eggs
 
* You will need— food 
processor, weight measures 
and plastic scraper.
* This recipe is enough for 
1 flan tin or 23 cm deep pie dish or tart tin.
* Sweet pastry is one of the 
three main French pastries mentioned here. It is also known as ‘pâte sucrée’.
* As the butter is only half 
the quantity to flour, this pastry is easy to work with once rested and gives a good result in any tart or flan —it 
is only bettered by the more delicate sweet shortcrust pastry.
* This pastry is simple 
to do by hand if a food processor is not available. Place the sifted flour and salt in a bowl, and rub in the butter with your fingertips until it reaches a granular texture. Make a well in the centre, add the sugar and eggs, and mix until it forms a smooth dough. Wrap and refrigerate.Method:
1. Place the flour and butter in a food processor and 
blitz until the mixture resembles coarse sand.
2. add the sugar, salt and eggs and continue 
processing until the dough comes together to form a ball.
3. remove the dough to a lightly floured benchtop and 
work briefly until well combined.
4. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate until 
required.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------PasTryBasic Recipes 461-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Sweet ShortcruSt paStry
Makes about 375 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— food 
processor, weight measures 
and plastic scraper. 
* This recipe makes enough 
for one tart.
* Also known as ‘pâte sablée 
sucrée’, this pastry is very short, because it has so much butter in it. The butter content means the gluten is unable to form, making it a very delicate, rich and soft pastry both raw and cooked.
* Unless you are a trained 
professional, rolling out and lining a pie dish or flan tin with sweet shortcrust pastry is nigh impossible because the pastry rips and tears very easily. For novice, intermediate and most domestic cooks, it is always suggested that the dough is broken into small pieces and scattered into the tin or dish and pressed into place. Rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes before baking.
* This is a great pastry to 
simply roll into logs, dust in caster sugar and set cold in the fridge. Slice 5-mm discs from the cold logs and bake for 15 minutes at 180ºC to produce a tasty little shortbread biscuit. Once cold, try dipping the biscuits in melted chocolate for a treat at your next dinner party.50 g plain flour, sifted
200 g cold unsalted 
butter, diced
100 g caster sugar2 egg yolksMethod:
1. place the sifted flour and butter in a food 
processor and blitz until the mixture resembles coarse sand.
2. add the sugar and egg yolks and continue processing 
until the dough just comes together to form a ball.
3. place the dough on a lightly floured benchtop and 
work briefly until well combined.
4. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate until 
required.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 462ShortcruSt paStry
Makes about 325 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
250 g plain flour
150 g butter, diced and 
softened
1 egg, at room temperaturepinch of sugar1 tablespoon milk
 
* You will need— bowl, food 
processor, weight measures 
and plastic scraper.
* Also known as ‘pâte 
brisée’, shortcrust pastry is often used as a base for pies and quiche.
* This is quite a rich, 
short savoury pastry. Other savoury pastries tend to be made using water and lard instead of eggs, butter and milk.
* Using fresh lard in place 
of the butter will produce a more flaky pastry, try making this alternative called ‘pâte à foncer’— 250 g plain flour, 
2 pinches salt, 125 g lard, 100 ml cold water. Use the same method as for shortcrust pastry.
* Yet another interesting 
alternative is called ‘pâte à pâte’ or hot water pastry— 125 ml water, 100 g 
lard, 250 g flour, 2 pinches of salt. Heat the water and lard to boiling point, remove from the heat and stir in the flour and salt. Cool and refrigerate until required.Method:
1. Place the flour in a bowl, make a well in the centre 
and add the butter, egg and sugar. Begin to mix with one hand and when almost completely combined, add the milk. continue to mix until a smooth dough forms. Wrap in plastic wrap and chill for 2–3 hours.
2. alternatively, place all of the ingredients in a 
food processor and blitz until a dough is formed. remove and work the dough for a minute to ensure it is smooth. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic Recipes 463-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Quick puff pastry
Makes about 600 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— weight, 
spoon and liquid measures and 
rolling pin.
* This is meant to be a 
quick puff pastry— also 
known as ‘flaky pastry’ or ‘demi-feulleté’— although 
it still takes about 2 hours to make. The conventional method requires a large piece of butter to be incorporated into the dough and takes an extra 2– 3 turns and resting 
periods. The quick method saves 1
½ hours overall.
* Once the pastry has been 
rolled out and cut into shapes, it can be wrapped and frozen ready for another day.
* It is important to note 
when using any puff pastry (homemade or commercially made) that when the cut pastry is ready to bake and it is being brushed with egg for glazing, the egg should not go over the edge of the pastry or it will act like a glue and prevent that spot from rising, producing a lopsided puff pastry shape.
* It is also vital that 
the dough is kept cold so the butter doesn’t melt and affect how flaky the pastry is.250 g plain flour
250 g butter, cut into 
5-mm dice
½ teaspoon salt
125 ml iced waterMethod:
1. place the flour on the work surface and make a well 
in the centre. add the butter and salt and begin to work the butter into the flour with your fingertips.
2. Once the butter is smaller in size but not fully 
incorporated, make another well in the flour and butter mixture and add the water. Gradually draw in the flour to make a dough which is homogenous yet still flecked with butter.
3. Lightly dust the work surface with flour and roll 
out the pastry to 40 cm x 20 cm.
4. Fold the 2 ends into the centre to make three 
layers, give the pastry a quarter turn and roll out again to 40 cm x 20 cm. Fold into 3 once more, wrap and refrigerate for 20 minutes.
5. Repeat this process 2 more times, then rest once 
more for at least 20 minutes in the fridge before using.
6. Wrap in plastic wrap and keep refrigerated for up 
to 3 days.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 464Choux pastry
Makes about 450 g
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
200 ml water
100 g butter
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon sugar
100 g bread flour3 egg whites1 egg1 egg, lightly beaten, for glazing
Method:
1. Preheat the oven to 150ºc. line a baking tray with 
baking paper.
2. Place the water, butter, salt and sugar in a 
saucepan and bring to the boil. as soon as the water comes to the boil, add the flour all at once while still on the heat. Beat the dough with a wooden spoon until it forms a ball and begins to come away from the sides of the pan. remove from the heat and leave to cool on the bench.
3. it is important to cool the dough before adding the 
eggs to avoid any heat in the dough cooking the eggs.
4. When the dough is cool enough to touch, beat in  
1 egg white at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in the egg.
5. fill a piping bag and pipe 3-cm balls (for 
profiteroles) or 2.5-cm wide x 8-cm long fingers (for éclairs) at least 2 cm apart onto the prepared baking tray.
6. Brush the top with the beaten egg and place on the 
bottom shelf of the oven. Turn up the oven to 220ºc and bake for 10–15 minutes or until golden brown and puffed. reduce the oven temperature to 150ºc to dry the puffs out and bake for a further 15 minutes. Turn the oven off, use a small knife to poke a hole in the bottom of each puff and leave to cool in the oven.Basic Recipes 465 
* You will need— saucepan, 
wooden spoon, baking tray, 
baking paper, weight, liquid and spoon measures and piping bag.
* Choux pastry— also known 
as ‘pâte à choux’— is used 
for many dishes, sweet and savoury, from profiteroles  
and éclairs to cheese puffs and potato Dauphine (mashed potato mixed with choux paste and deep-fried).
* It is important to use 
bread (strong) flour in choux pastry as the higher proteins in the flour produce greater gluten elasticity making lighter puffs. Use plain flour if only making choux pastry on rare occasions.
* Adding the flour to the 
boiling water is also very important to ensure the starches in the flour swell and absorb the water instantly.* Often recipes for choux 
pastry use whole eggs. Using mostly egg whites will guarantee a lighter, crispier and drier puff. For a lighter puff again, try reducing the water content in the recipe by 50 ml and adding another egg white at the end— be 
aware that the resultant puff, although light in texture, will have a stronger egg flavour.Method cont.
7. Transfer to an airtight container and keep for  
2–3 days or freeze for up to 2 months.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 466350 g plain flour
1 tablespoon dry yeast1 teaspoon salt1 teaspoon sugar3 tablespoons olive oil250 ml warm water
Method:
1. Mix the flour, yeast, salt, sugar, olive oil and 
water in a bowl.
2. Tip onto the benchtop and with extra flour at hand, 
knead the dough until it is smooth and elastic.
3. rub the bowl with a small amount of oil and add the 
ball of dough.
4. cover with a tea towel or plastic wrap and keep in 
a warm place until doubled in size, an hour or more depending on how warm it is.
5. once doubled in size, remove the cover and punch 
the dough back to its original size.
6. roll and stretch the dough to fit a large round 
pizza tray or baking tray.
7. spread with toppings and bake in a preheated 220ºc 
oven for 20 minutes.Pizza dough
Makes about 4 basesxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxBasic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
467* You will need— large bowl, 
spoon, weight and liquid 
measures, plastic wrap or tea towel, rolling pin and pizza tray or rectangular baking tray.
* Like most bread products, 
the best flour for the job is ‘strong’ flour— also known as 
‘bread’ flour. However, for most beginner cooks, plain flour is easily recognised and readily available and does a good job.
* If it is not to your 
liking the first time, do not despair— dough making is 
an art and over time can be refined until you get a feel for it. It can vary greatly depending on the consistency and age of the flour, the yeast and the temperature. Once you start, the quest for the perfect crust is on.
* If it is cold and you need 
to find a warm spot, an old trick passed on to me by my wise Greek friend is to place the dough in bed with the electric blanket on. It sounds strange but it works!
* Not all pizzas are round; 
you can make long rectangular ones or mini pizzas.
* If you will be making 
pizza often, it is worth investing in pizza trays or a pizza stone. Try and find pizza trays that are ‘matt’ grey or black as these absorb heat and make for a crispier base, whereas a shiny silver pizza tray reflects heat and the base of the pizza may not brown as well.
* Use the dough to make 
calzone; this is like an Italian pasty. Make a filling, spread a large mound of it along half of the rolled out round of pizza dough. Brush lightly whisked egg along the edges, fold over the other half and press the edges down firmly. Brush with more egg and bake in a 220°C oven until golden.
* Use the dough to make 
cheese twists.
* Substitute the dry yeast 
for live yeast which can be purchased from delis or bakeries.
* You may need to add a 
dusting of flour from time to time as you knead the dough to reduce stickiness.
* You will know when the 
dough is ready when it no longer sticks to your hands.
* The dough can be frozen 
for several months, but be mindful that it will continue rising for a little while before its temperature drops, so wrap it tightly or place in a clip lock bag. When using the dough, remove from the freezer and defrost in the fridge overnight. Then bring it back to room temperature before rolling out, otherwise the dough will tear.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 46812 lemons
1 cup coarse salt
Method:
1. Wash and dry the lemons before salting, remembering 
that it is the skin only that is eaten.
2. use a sharp knife to make 2 vertical cuts in each 
lemon in a cross about two-thirds of the way through the lemon, but all the way along (do not panic if it cuts through, it is still good to use).
3. stuff the cuts in each lemon with plenty of salt.4. Place a lemon carefully at the bottom of a 
sterilised wide-mouthed glass jar. Proceed in this manner with the remaining lemons, compressing them into the far edges of the jar until no space is left and the lemon juice rises to the top.
5. seal with the lid and leave on the kitchen bench.6. More lemons may be added in the following 2–3 days 
as the lemon rinds begin to soften.
7. Make sure the lemons are covered with juice at all 
times, adding fresh lemon juice if necessary.
8. The lemons are ready to use when the rinds are very 
tender, 4–6 weeks.
9. rinse the lemons thoroughly and discard any flesh 
and seeds before using. refrigerate after opening. Preserved lemons will keep for up to 6 months in the refrigerator after opening.Preserved lemons
Makes 12xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxBasic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
469* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, cup 
measure and large jar with screw-cap lid.
* A sealant may be used 
once the lemons have been placed in the jar. This can be a slick of vegetable oil, enough to cover the surface. Alternatively, use waxed paper and cellophane discs. Make your own from a waxed paper roll purchased from the supermarket. Ensure the rim of the jar is clean and place on top, wax side down, then dampen the cellophane disc, place on top of the rim, moist side up, allow some overhang, and secure with an elastic band. When dry, the cellophane will shrink and create a tight seal.
* When ready, the lemon pulp 
is discarded and only the peel is used.
* Limes can also be 
preserved this way.
* Extra flavourings may be 
added, for example: 1 dried bay leaf, 1 cinnamon stick, 2 whole cloves, 2 dried red chillies, 1 teaspoon black peppercorns, 1 teaspoon coriander seeds, or 
½ 
teaspoon cumin seed. Don’t add all these together.* Preserved lemons can be 
added to stews, fish dishes, stuffings for chicken, tagines and salads.
* Traditionally, thinner 
skinned lemons are utilised because they tend to be juicier. Thick-skinned varieties can be preserved but require extra juice to cover them.
* If a white mould forms, it 
is harmless and can be rinsed off before the lemon is used.
* Six medium-sized lemons fit 
nicely into a 1-litre jar. Don’t be afraid to tightly pack the jar because the lemons shrink.
* Unopened, preserved lemons 
can last 24 months; kept in a dark, dry, cool place.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 470Sugar Syrup
Makes approximately 350 ml
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1 cup water
1 cup white sugar
 
* You will need— cup 
measures, saucepan and wooden 
spoon.
* The syrup, properly 
covered to prevent it from taking on odours, can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 12 months. Left at room temperature, sugar syrup can form mould so it is always recommended to store refrigerated.
* Sugar syrup is a 50/50 
combination of water and sugar. It can differ in density depending on the sugar to water ratio.
* It is good to have on hand 
because it lasts well and can be used in many recipes, for example baklava, syrup cakes or sorbet.* Add an extra ½ cup water 
to make a poaching syrup for fruit. If the fruit is quite tart, then leave the ratio at equal parts sugar to water. Flavour the poaching syrup by adding 30 ml (1 nip) liqueur or 
½ cinnamon stick or ½ 
vanilla bean. Other spices can also be used including black pepper, star anise or cardamom pods.
* Try adding a piece of 
lemon or orange zest to the sugar mixture before it boils. Keep the zest in the stored syrup to continue flavouring it. Use this lemon-flavoured syrup as a base for lemonade.
* Sugar syrup is frequently 
used in cocktails because it combines well with alcohol. One example is a French 75. Combine 15 ml each of gin, fresh lemon juice and sugar syrup in a champagne flute and top up with chilled sparking wine or French champagne.
* Sugar syrup is often 
referred to as a ‘simple syrup’ in cocktails, in the professional kitchen it is often known as a ‘stock syrup’.
* If you don’t have a sugar 
thermometer, you can test the stages of cooked sugar syrups using the iced water method, note the following:
* Soft ball— drops of syrup 
in chilled water will form a fudge-like ‘soft ball’ when rolled between the thumb and forefinger.
* Firm ball— drops of the 
syrup cooled in the iced water will produce a ‘firm ball’ ideal for making caramel.Method:
1. Pour the water into saucepan and add the sugar.2. allow the sugar to dissolve over medium heat, 
stirring occasionally.
3. once it comes to the boil, reduce to low heat and 
allow to simmer for 5 minutes, without stirring, to thicken slightly.
4. Pour into a sterilised bottle, cover and store in 
the refrigerator.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Basic Recipes 471-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
--------------------------Vanilla sugar
Makes 2 cups
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
 
* You will need— cutting 
board, paring knife, weight 
measure, and food processor (optional).
* Vanilla sugar is available 
at good delicatessens and selected supermarkets.
* Use vanilla sugar wherever 
you use regular sugar.* Making vanilla sugar is a 
great way to utilise vanilla beans that have already been used in desserts and sauces. Wash the used vanilla bean and leave to dry at room temperature. Follow the instructions given in either method above.500 g caster or pure icing 
sugar
1 vanilla beanMethod 1:
1. The easiest way to do this is to pour the sugar into a jar or other sealed container, cut the vanilla bean into 3 pieces and store in the sugar. Over the coming days and weeks, the aroma permeates the whole container of sugar.
2. Once the sugar is used, the vanilla pieces can be 
added to another batch of sugar.
Method 2:
1. This method requires the use of a food processor. place 2 tablespoons sugar in the food processor with the vanilla bean that has been chopped into smaller pieces. process until the vanilla bean is little more than small black grains.
2. add the remaining sugar and process to incorporate 
all the vanilla and sugar.
3. store in an airtight container.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 472Vegetable stock
Makes about 2 litres
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
¼ cup light olive oil or vegetable oil
500 g onions, peeled and chopped400 g carrots, peeled and chopped500 g leeks, white part only, chopped, washed  
and drained
1 small fennel bulb, chopped (optional)2 bay leaves2 sprigs thyme50 g parsley stalks
Method:
1. heat the oil in a large soup or stock pot.2. add all the ingredients and cook on medium heat for 
5 minutes.
3. add enough cold water to cover the vegetables by  
5 cm.
4. increase the heat to bring just to the boil then 
reduce the heat so the stock is simmering.
5. cook for 45 minutes only. remove from the heat, 
stand for 10 minutes then strain.
6. cool before storing in the fridge. Vegetable stock 
loses flavour very quickly and by day 3, although not off, is hardly worth using. Best used on the day or on day 2, or freeze.Basic Recipes-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HINTS AND TIPS:
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
473* You will need— cutting 
board, cook’s knife, 
vegetable peeler, cup and weight measures, large pot and wooden spoon.
* Vegetable stock can be 
anything from a carefully boiled-up array of root vegetables to the liquid leftover after boiling mixed vegetables for dinner (which can be saved for making soups, making bread or vegan risotto.)
* Sauté the vegetables 
before adding the water to bring out their flavour.
* For a more intensified, 
sweeter tasting stock, roast the vegetables for 45 minutes before cooking in the above method (for 45 minutes).
* The stock will take about 
20 minutes to cook if the vegetables are cut small, or up to 1 hour if they’re kept whole. After an hour, the vegetables are well and truly spent and any herbs left to steep may turn bitter, so strain everything out. (All the flavour and nutrients are now in the liquid, so eating these soggy leftovers would be the equivalent to tucking into boiled cardboard.) To intensify the flavour, you can then reduce the stock by half.* This is an easy stock to 
prepare and have on hand for soups, risotto and sauces; especially for vegetarians and vegans.
* Like all stocks in this 
book, it freezes well and will last for 2 months in the freezer. Keeping stock in the freezer for too long will change the make up of the stock. The ice crystals become larger, affecting the flavour when defrosted.
* For a light amber colour 
to the stock, leave the skin on the onions.
* For a dark vegetable 
stock, brown the vegetables in the pan before adding the water, being careful not to burn the vegetables which would impart a burnt flavour. A simple way to colour the stock is to add some soy sauce or mushroom soy sauce, just enough to change the colour but not to overpower.
* Adding other vegetables 
will certainly add a richness and depth of flavour, but do remember these vegetables are a throwaway item used for flavour only.
* Adding leafy green matter 
like spinach or soft herbs is not a great idea as these ingredients tend to become slimy, bitter or grassy tasting which could affect the final delicate flavour of the stock.
* Homemade vegetable stock 
should be made from quality ingredients, not the old, wilted leftovers fermenting in the bottom of the crisper. As tempting as it may seem to use up the ‘compost’ at the bottom of the fridge, ask yourself, Would I eat these normally? If the answer is, no then discard and use fresher vegetables.-----------------------------------------------
The Really Useful Information xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx
----------------------------------------------- The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 476AvocAdos
There are close to 30 varieties of cultivated avocado, from the Anaheim to the Zutano, and 
each has specific qualities, tastes and oil content (from 12–25 per cent). Haas (the best quality), with its dark, pebbly-green skin, and Fuerte, with a smooth green skin, are the most common. The many others from around the world tend to have short seasons, but are worth sourcing when available. Avocado leaves can be slightly toasted in a pan, cooled then ground with a mortar and pestle to release their subtle fragrance of anise and hazelnuts. Use the crushed leaves in stews, chicken or fish dishes, and salads made with avocado.
Tips
* To check ripeness, gently press at the narrow, stalk end of the fruit, not at the 
bulbous, seed-filled end. This is where the fruit is most dense; if it is ripe, it should 
give when pressed at this end.
* To hasten ripening, place an avocado in a paper bag with a ripe apple (the slow release 
of ethylene from the apple initiates ethylene production in the avocado).
* Store ripe avocados in the fridge for 4–10 days—how long they last depends on the 
variety. As a general rule, the smooth, green-skinned varieties bruise more easily and do not store for as long as the rougher, dark-skinned avocados.
* To remove the seed, cut the avocado in half, give the seed a firm (not aggressive) hit 
with the knife blade, twist and pull. Either peel or use a large spoon to scoop out the flesh in one go.
* The flesh of an avocado inevitably browns after you’ve cut into it. To help prevent 
browning, brush with lemon or lime juice, mash and mix with more lemon or lime juice, or leave the seed in the half not being used, cover and refrigerate.
* Avocado flesh can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 months. 
BeAns
FREsH BEANs
So many beans, so little space. Beans are usually divided into 2 groups: those with edible pods and those where only the seeds are eaten (see also Dried Beans). Beans grow either on a bush or trained on a pole. Bush beans grow close to the ground and need no support, while pole beans are climbing, vine-like plants. Fresh beans are also known as ‘shelling beans’ in the US.
Types of fresh bean
Broad beans are best in the spring; out of season they tend to be mealy and dry, good only for soups and purees. Shell the beans and remove their outer skins. This skin toughens as the bean matures (sometimes becoming grey or even pink-tinged); so the older and larger the bean, the more likely you will want to remove it before eating. Cook first (approximately  3 minutes) then pop the beans out of the remaining skins. Young, tender, fresh beans can also be eaten raw. Mature beans (also known as ‘foules’) are often best pureed or dried. Also known as ‘fava beans’ in the US (although in many other countries fava refers exclusively to the dried bean), Windsor beans or horse beans.
Edible soy beans, known in Japan as ‘edamame’, are harvested as young green-shelled 
beans, before they mature into soy beans. In Japan, edamame are eaten as snacks and The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 477appetisers; the pods are boiled for 10 minutes before the bean is shelled. In China and 
other countries, the shelled soy beans are cooked with meat and vegetables in various dishes. The pods can be frozen (cooked or uncooked) for later use.
Green beans are many and varied, the most common being the string or French bean and 
the flat green bean. String beans are now bred with little or no sign of the chewy string of old, while flat green beans are tougher, larger and less palatable. The yellow bean, also known as ‘wax bean’ or ‘butter bean’ (not to be confused with the lima bean), is a varietal of the green bean with a delicate, tasty flavour, although it deteriorates faster than green beans. Also available is the purple bean which cooks green. Baby green beans are now sold in punnets. They are sweet and can be eaten raw.
Snake beans, also known as ‘Chinese long beans’, ‘asparagus beans’, ‘bodi beans’ and 
‘yard-long beans’, can be cut into lengths and cooked like normal green beans.
Wing beans are used in stir-fries and in soups and can be found at Asian grocers. They 
have four wings running the length of the bean. Always buy them fully green and crisp; older ones bend too easily and the wings turn brown and decay.
DrieD beans
Dried beans (also known as ‘shell-outs’) are pulses (see Legumes for a definition). They 
should be soaked for some hours, usually overnight, before cooking. The beans are soaked for 2 reasons: first, to speed up the cooking time; and secondly, because the flatulence often associated with eating beans can be attributed to the sugars in the bean that are water-soluble, so by soaking the beans and diluting the sugars, potent gases are reduced. 
How to soak D rieD beans
For long soaking, cover the dried beans with 3 times their volume of water and stand in the 
refrigerator for 12 hours or overnight. Drain.
For quick soaking, place the beans in a saucepan, cover with 3 times their volume of 
water and bring to the boil. Boil for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat, cover and stand for  1 hour. Drain.
Most dried beans take 1–1
½ hours to cook once they are soaked, or 15–30 minutes in a 
pressure cooker. Most beans can be cooked in the water they have soaked in, except soy, kidney beans and chickpeas which should be drained and cooked in fresh water as the soaking water retains bitterness from the beans. When cooking dried beans, it is recommended to add a dash of oil to reduce the amount of foaming.
If a recipe calls for cooked or canned beans when you have dried, or vice versa, here 
is a rule of thumb for replacing one with the other.
1 cup dried beans = about 3 cups cooked beans 500 g dried beans = 2
½ cups dried beans = about 7 ½ cups cooked beans 
400 g (14 oz) can beans = about 1 ½ cups drained beans 
540 g (19 oz) can beans = about 2 cups drained beans = approximately ¾ cup dried beans
Types of dried beanAzuki/adzuki beans are primarily grown for bean seeds, which in turn are used for soups, desserts and cake pastes and are the main ingredients in red bean paste and sweet bean paste. The young fresh bean pods can be eaten like snow peas.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 478Black beans, also known as ‘turtle beans’, are a small black-skinned bean used in 
stews, soups and salads; not to be confused with fermented black beans which are a type of 
soy bean. Black-eye beans are also known as ‘black-eyed peas’, ‘cornfield’, ‘turtle beans’, ‘Mexican beans’ and ‘valentines’. These earthy tasting beans cook in 1 hour and are a popular addition to dishes from the Caribbean, Mexico and the southern states of the US.
Borlotti beans have a distinct marking of pink or red streaks. They are available 
fresh but are more often used dried. With their hammy, nutty flavour, the dried beans are a great salad and soup bean, while the fresh beans are wonderful in pasta. Sometimes called ‘cranberry beans’ or ‘Roman’ or ‘Romano beans’.
Lima beans or butter beans are the favourites of Rabbit in Winnie-the-Pooh and a must-
have ingredient for the side dish succotash. This flat, kidney-shaped bean has a buttery texture and flavour.
Marrow beans are said to taste of bacon (I can neither confirm nor deny this claim). 
They swell considerably after cooking so make a great salad bean; also good as a puree or in soups.
Red kidney beans are so named for their shape. They have a full flavour and mealy 
texture and are often used in salads.
Runner beans are available fresh or dried. They are quite large (although may take less 
than 1 hour to cook) so can be served braised or stewed as a dish on their own, where a slow-cooking method suits.
Soy beans have a higher protein content (35 per cent) than other beans. Dried soy beans 
contain an enzyme inhibitor that can make them indigestible so they should be soaked for 24 hours (change the water every 8 hours) then cooked in fresh water for 3–4 hours. Once cooked, they have a silky-smooth texture but little flavour, although they can be enhanced by adding flavours such as onion, tomato, rosemary, soy sauce, garlic or thyme in the last hour of cooking. I personally prefer eating soy beans in their many other forms (fresh, sprouts, bean curds, sauces) to avoid this long drawn-out process of cooking the dried bean. 
Fermented black beans (also known as ‘salted black beans’, ‘Chinese black beans’ or 
‘ginger black beans’) are black soy beans that have been cooked, innoculated with a mould and fermented in their cooking brine for about 6 months then partially dried. The better quality brands are then flavoured with Chinese five-spice powder, orange zest and ginger. The beans now have a salty soy taste and a firm, pliable texture, and will last indefinitely in the cupboard. Once opened, they can be stored for months in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Although some recipes recommend soaking and/or rinsing the beans to reduce their saltiness, this is frowned on by Chinese chefs.
White beans is a general term that describes cannellini, great northern beans, haricot 
beans (also known as ‘navy beans’ or ‘Boston beans’) and the white bean itself. Any of these can be interchanged in recipes. 
Bean flakes are similar to instant rolled oats in that they cook very quickly into a 
paste. They are ideal in soups or as a side dish or puree.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 479Cheese
Tips for buying and sT oring cheese:
* Don’t be afraid to ask for a sample of cheese before buying (although a supermarket is 
the last place this service would be offered). If you are unable to sample the cheese, look 
carefully before buying: avoid any wrapped cheeses that show weeping or shrinkage and any unwrapped cheeses that show signs of drying around the edges or cracking in harder cheese. 
* Stored in its original wrapper, unopened, in the coldest part of the refrigerator, cheese 
(especially hard cheese) can live a grand life, often beyond its ‘use by’ date. However, cheese is a living food and needs to breathe to develop. The best way to store it is wrapped in a calico cloth or waxed paper. (Don’t use plastic wrap or foil.) Ideally, keep cheese in a cool, moist cave, with good ventilation and a stable air temperature from 8
–12°C. As most 
houses lack a good cave, the refrigerator will have to suffice.
* Mould spores from blue cheese can spread to other cheese and food in the same storage 
area, so make sure blue cheese in particular is thoroughly wrapped. 
* Freezing cheese is not recommended, although leftover grated cheese and some semi-hard 
cheeses keep well in the freezer. Soft cheeses like brie and camembert do not appreciate this treatment. 
* Remove cheese from the fridge and stand at room temperature for 1 –2 hours before serving. 
This allows the flavour and aroma to develop.
Tips for a cheese board:
* Don’t feel the need to always serve a vast array of different cheeses at a dinner party. 
Choose 2 or 3, ranging in texture from hard to semi-hard to semi-soft, allowing 80 –100 g of 
cheese per person, less if cheese is to be served before or after a dessert.
* Make sure your guests enjoy a particular cheese before spending your money —blue cheese 
is not for everyone.
* Serving cut fruit on the same plate as the cheese is an insult; cheese should be served 
simply on its own. Any fruit to be enjoyed with the cheese, whether fresh, dried or as a 
paste, can be served on a separate plate. Offer bread as well as biscuits with cheese; fruit breads, nut breads and wine breads are all suitable. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 480Chillies
Chilli heat ratings
Chilli heat is measured in Scoville heat units. The capsaicin is chemically extracted from 
the chilli and subjected to high performance liquid chromatography. Basically, these units represent the number of times the extracted capsaicin dissolved in alcohol can be diluted with a quantity of sugar water before the capsaicin can no longer be tasted.
1
–10 scoville units Chilli name
0 0 capsicum
1 100 –500 cherry, pepperoncini, NuMex, R-Nak, Mexibel, aji flor
2 500 –1000 Santa Fe Grande, anaheim, sandia, Big Jim
3 1000 –1500 Española, poblano, mulato, ancho, Española improved, 
  pasilla, chilaca, hot cherry, NuMex 64
4 1500 –2500 rocotillo, cascabel
5 2500 –5000 TAM jalapeño, mirasol, cayenne (large thick), guajillo, 
  cascabella, Hungarian wax, Peter pepper, Turkish
6 5000 –15 000 aji amarillo, romesco, jalapeño, serrano, yellow wax, wax
7 15 000 –30 000 de arbol, catarina, japones
8 30 000 –50 000 aji, cayenne, cayenne (long thin), prik khee nu, dundicut,  
  tabasco, costeno, rocoto, piquin
9 50 000 –100 000 yatsafusa, chipotle, santaka, Thai, chiltepin, aji limon,  
  aji or cusqueno, datil
10 100 000 –300 000 habanero, Bahamian, Jamaican hot, bird, bird’s eye, 
  Scotch bonnet
10+ 300 000 –577 000 Red Caribbean, savina 
 15 000 000+ pure capsaicin
ChoColate
Chocolate has a long history as a glamour food, the food of the gods. The very best 
chocolate fetches top dollar for its smooth texture and pure flavour, which unfortunately means that much of the chocolate we consume is often churned into cheap confectionery and crude compound cooking blocks
—sad, milk-laden versions of the good stuff. The good stuff 
displays its cocoa butter content proudly (from 33 per cent), and is a real treat to use and eat.
Store chocolate at room temperature (ideally at 20°C) in a cool, dry place, in its 
original wrapper or in foil. Dark chocolate has a shelf life of several years, while milk chocolate should be used within 12 months. Don’t store chocolate in the fridge or freezer, as it will have a greater tendency to bloom once thawed. (Bloom is the name given to the grey/white spots that appear on the surface of chocolate when the cocoa butter separates from the solids.) Why would you freeze it anyway? Eat it!
Chocolate is made from the cacao bean. The rarest cacao tree, whose bean is the most 
expensive and sought after by the world’s best chocolate makers, is the ‘criollo’ (which means ‘native’), although 90 per cent of the world’s production of cacao beans comes from the ‘forastero’ (translated as ‘foreigner’); ‘trinitario’ (‘third’) is a hybrid of the two.
The cacao bean is fermented then dried before being roasted and ground to form cocoa The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 481liquor or chocolate liquor. Chocolate liquor is bitter and can be put aside to set to be 
sold as bitter chocolate. It is about 50/50 cocoa solids and cocoa butter; the solids provide the chocolatey taste in the final product and the butter provides smoothness and ‘mouth feel’. Next, the chocolate liquor goes through a hydraulic press that separates the cocoa butter and solids, and this is the stage when the chocolate maker applies recipes and techniques that ultimately define their brand. Commonly added are sugar, milk solids and flavours such as vanilla. The next step in the process is conching, when the chocolate liquid mass is stirred and mixed at 55
–75°C to give it a smooth texture. This process causes 
friction between the added sugars and the cocoa, leaving a polished cocoa particle. Invented by chocolate manufacturer Rudolf Lindt, conching gets its name from the shell-like shape of the machine’s rollers. Lower-quality chocolates may not have been through this conching stage, resulting in a grainy, average-tasting chocolate. Others are conched for hours, even days, for a more luxurious texture. Valrhona, one of the best chocolate makers in the world, conches its chocolate for 5 days. The final stage in making chocolate is tempering: the chocolate is slowly heated then slowly cooled. Tempering allows the chocolate to harden properly and prevents the cocoa butter from separating. Adding flavours, conching and tempering are fine arts with idiosyncratic results. The two things to look for when you’re choosing chocolate are the percentage of cocoa liquor compared to other additives, and the percentage of cocoa butter to cocoa solids (the latter is often hard to determine from the label).
Tips for melT ing chocolaTe 
Put the uninitiated cook around chocolate and they quickly become the painter’s apprentice, 
slopping it around and coating everything, including the inside of the cutlery drawer. There are two methods for melting chocolate effectively: 
* In the microwave: melt at 50 per cent power for 20 –30 second intervals, stirring each 
time. Don’t omit the step of stirring, as warmed chocolate keeps its shape, and may look like it needs more time when in fact it has begun to melt. 
* In the double boiler: bring the water to the boil in the lower saucepan, then turn off 
the heat. Place the chocolate in the upper saucepan or in a heatproof bowl over the boiled water and let the residual heat from the water slowly melt the chocolate. Rush this process and you run the risk of scorching the chocolate, making it stiff, lumpy and grainy. 
* To add liquid to melted chocolate: heat the liquid first. If you add cold liquid, the 
chocolate will solidify or seize. Even the moisture from a wet spoon is enough to tamper with melting chocolate. Alternatively, you can add liquid before you start melting the chocolate and heat them both together.
problem solving
* Seized? Once chocolate has seized, it is unlikely to remelt (although you can try adding 
a spoonful of vegetable oil which can soften the chocolate enough to continue). The best use 
for it then is to make chocolate sauce or ganache. 
* Bloomed? Blooming often occurs when chocolate is chilled and then returned to room 
temperature. Chocolate that blooms is still edible with only the slightest difference in flavour and texture. You can melt it to regain its original texture.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 482Types of chocolaTe
Bittersweet chocolate is the chef’s choice for desserts because of its stronger flavour. It 
contains more cocoa liquor (at least 35 per cent) than semi-sweet and sweet chocolate (semi-sweet contains 15
–35 per cent and unsweetened chocolate is pure cocoa liquor) and less added 
sugar.
Cacao is the fruit from which the cacao bean is extracted. Although the words ‘cacao’ 
and ‘cocoa’ are often used interchangeably to describe products derived from the cacao tree, ‘cacao’ ought only to refer to the tree and the bean it produces, while ‘cocoa’ refers to the products derived from them
—butter, powder, liquor, etc. The cacao bean is made up of 
54 per cent cacao butter, 11.5 per cent protein, 9 per cent starch, 5 per cent water, and hundreds of other elements like theobromine, caffeine and aromatic oils. Cacao beans are processed in a similar way to coffee beans.
Cocoa butter is created during the chocolate-making process. It determines the 
viscosity of chocolate (the best chocolates have a higher percentage, 33
–40 per cent, of 
cocoa butter). It can be bought separately and used to thin chocolate. Cocoa butter is also an important ingredient in pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Cocoa powder is a product derived from the cacao bean during the chocolate-making 
process. Cocoa liquor and cocoa butter are extracted from the cacao bean, and the dry cake that remains after pressing is ground into cocoa powder. Cocoa powder is mildly acidic and can be bought as low-fat and medium-fat. Drinking cocoa or drinking chocolate contains cocoa powder, sugar, malt extracts, milk powder, lecithin and vanilla. It is used in sweetened chocolate drink mixes. Dutch cocoa was invented by Coenraad Johannes van Houten in the Netherlands. It is cocoa powder that has been alkalised to leave a darker, smoother, less bitter and more soluble powder. If a recipe calls for Dutch cocoa and all you have is ordinary cocoa powder, add a very small amount of baking powder when sifting the cocoa. This will help alkalise the mix.
Compound chocolate, manufactured as a cheap alternative to chocolate, is made with 
vegetable oil and cocoa powder instead of cocoa liquor. It melts at a higher temperature, making it manageable for the novice cook. It is sometimes called ‘compound chocolate coating’, ‘decorators’ chocolate’ or ‘confectioners’ chocolate’.
Couverture means ‘covering’, which is its intent. It is a chocolate made to coat 
truffles, cakes and sweets, but is used by anyone who knows their chocolate for all manner of cooking. Its high cocoa butter content gives couverture its characteristic viscosity (the cocoa butter thins the chocolate to a smooth, glossy and quite runny texture compared with poorly made or cheaper styles of chocolate which when melted stay quite firm). It can be replaced with dark chocolate or compound chocolate, but neither will guarantee the excellent results gained from couverture. 
Dark chocolate is sweetened but has no added milk solids. (This is the chocolate you 
might have stolen from your dad’s private stash as a child, only to decide that, if it isn’t milk chocolate, it isn’t chocolate at all.) Dark chocolates range from bittersweet and semi-sweet to sweet. 
German chocolate has nothing to do with Germany. It was formulated in 1852 by Samuel 
German, to make life easier for bakers by adding more sugar to the chocolate, and is seen as the predecessor to bittersweet chocolate. 
Mexican chocolate has added cinnamon, sugar and sometimes nuts and is used for hot 
drinks and mole sauce. For homemade Mexican chocolate
—combine, 1 tablespoon cocoa powder, 
½ teaspoon caster sugar and ¼ teaspoon ground cinnamon. Makes the equivalent of 30 g 
Mexican chocolate.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 483Milk chocolate or sweet chocolate is rarely used in cooking, as the added milk solids 
can interfere with baked goods. However, it can be used successfully in a mousse. 
Semi-sweet chocolate is similar to bittersweet chocolate, but contains less cocoa 
liquor (15 –35 per cent). An excellent cooking chocolate for good domestic cooks in the know. 
(Sweet chocolate has more sugar.)
Unsweetened chocolate or bitter chocolate is made with 100 per cent cocoa liquor and 
is bitter and not to be eaten straight from the pantry. It is favoured by professional 
bakers, as they have more control over the quantities of sugar, etc. in the final product. If necessary, unsweetened chocolate can be replaced with cocoa powder (not drinking chocolate). For homemade unsweetened chocolate
—mix together 1 tablespoon vegetable oil and 
3 tablespoons cocoa powder. Makes the equivalent of 30 g unsweetened chocolate.
White chocolate is made from what’s leftover after the cocoa liquor has been removed, 
so contains only cocoa butter, sugar, milk solids and vanilla. Different brands contain varying amounts of cocoa butter, and some contain none at all. As a rule of thumb, those made with cocoa butter are ivory-coloured, while those with little or none are a brighter white. All white chocolate must be melted at very low temperatures to keep it from scorching and turning lumpy. 
AlternAtives to chocolA te
Interchange different styles of chocolate with caution, as the properties of each type will 
react differently. 
Carob, the most commonly used alternative, is the fruit of the carob tree (technically 
a legume) which humans have been harvesting for some 5000 years. It is very high in sucrose (40 per cent) and other sugars (up to 70 per cent). Carob is ground into a cocoa-like powder, roasted or left raw, and is used for drinks and in baking. Carob bars and chips are used for cooking, and the pod can be boiled in water to produce a thick, syrup-like molasses. Carob is used as an alternative to chocolate as it contains a third of the calories, is almost fat-free (chocolate is half fat), is high in pectin, and it doesn’t interfere with the absorption of calcium (as chocolate does). It is also caffeine-free so the seeds can be roasted and made into a coffee substitute. Carob can be substituted measure for measure with chocolate, but it has a milder flavour so play with the recipe, perhaps adding more carob to compensate.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 484Corn
Corn, as in sweet corn, whole-kernel corn, corn on the cob or maize, is best cooked and 
eaten immediately after harvesting. As corn ages, the sugars rapidly break down into starches and flavour is lost. Only buy corn with a full husk; corn that is presented with the tops cut off or packaged with no husk at all will be old and starchy. If you intend to grill corn, first soak the ears, husk and all, in water for a couple of hours. Cook in the husk on the grill, turning regularly, then remove the husk (shuck) when it’s done. Corn can be boiled with its husk on or off, then either eaten immediately or cooled and stripped of the juicy kernels for salads, fritters or succotash. 
The sweet corn plant (part of the maize family) is a type of grass, the cobs are the 
seed heads, the largest of any grass type, edible or inedible. An edible fungus that grows on corn stalks (a strange, purplish growth) is considered a delicacy by some. Baby corn is not young sweet corn but a different variety.
Cream 
The different types of cream sold in different countries and used in recipe books around the world can be one of the more frustrating things to deal with as a cook (or a tourist). Essentially, it is the fat content in cream that affects the final outcome of a dish. As the European, American, South African, Australian and New Zealand dairy fraternities continue to churn creams with differing fat contents and use different marketing names, it can be decidedly challenging to guarantee a perfect result. The list I’ve provided attempts to explain the main types of cream. My advice is to understand the recipe that the cream is to be used in and work out whether it needs a low, medium or high fat content, and whether it’s required for whipping, pouring or for use as is.
Types of cream
Clotted cream is made from rich, unpasteurised milk that is heated to 85°C for about 1 hour. 
In this time, yellow clots of coagulated cream form on top of the milk. This rich cream with a fat content of 55 per cent is also known as ‘Devonshire cream’. It can be used as a substitute for qaimaaq.
Crème fraîche is a naturally soured cream (also known as ‘racreme’, and 
‘clabber’/‘clabbered cream’). It doesn’t curdle when heated, which is why it is used for cream-based sauces. It is easy to make at home. For homemade crème fraîche
—mix 1 cup 
whipping cream with ½ cup sour cream or 2 tablespoons buttermilk and pour into a glass bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and leave on the kitchen bench for 8
–14 hours (until set). 
Stir and refrigerate. It will last for 7 –10 days in the fridge.
Double cream, generally speaking, has a fat content of 45 –48 per cent. (Note that UK 
cookbooks ask for double cream when they want a pure cream of 30–35 per cent fat content: you’ll just have to see whether the recipe works and if not, try a different cream next time.)
Double cream with a high fat content can be whipped but be mindful that it is easy to 
overwhip, becoming grainy in texture and looking somewhat separated. To help prevent this try adding 15 ml milk to every 300 ml double cream before whipping.
Extra thick single cream is an English product made from single cream (18 per cent fat) 
which has been homogenised, pasteurised and then cooled. This cream which cannot be whipped is a thick spooning cream similar to Australian double cream. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 485Half and half is half milk and half cream. It is an American product that is not 
readily available elsewhere, but you can make your own by using equal parts milk and pouring 
cream. It cannot be whipped as it contains only 12 per cent fat.
Pouring cream is an Australian product, the equivalent of single cream (with a minimum 
of 18 per cent fat) in the UK and light cream (18 –30 per cent fat) in the US. It can also be 
called ‘pure cream’, ‘coffee cream’ and ‘table cream’.
Qaimaaq is a type of cream that is also known as ‘breakfast cream’. If necessary, 
substitute with clotted cream.
Sour cream is cream that has been soured with lactic acid bacteria. The degree of 
sourness varies between countries—if you’re from Ireland, you may like it very sour; if from the US, quite mild. It can be made at home, using buttermilk or yoghurt as the starter. The recipe can be varied, but try the following. For homemade sour cream
—mix 250 ml cream  
(18–36 per cent fat, no additives) with approximately 
2 tablespoons or 50 ml yoghurt or buttermilk and leave in a bowl overnight or for 
24 hours in a warm area while the mixture sets. Depending on how thick you like it, use immediately or strain through muslin cloth or cheesecloth for several hours until the desired thickness. 
Sterilised cream (23
–28 per cent fat), also known as ‘manufacturer’s cream’ or ‘ultra 
sterilised cream’, is heat-treated which results in a caramelised flavour. This European product, sold in tins or Tetra Paks, cannot be whipped but is spoonable enough to accompany desserts. If unavailable, use pouring cream instead. 
Thickened cream is an Australian product, about 35 per cent fat, which contains a 
thickener such as halal gelatine or vegetable gum. These thickeners are added to stabilise the cream when whipped. Sometimes mineral salts are also added. Use when your British cookbooks call for whipping cream (35
–38 per cent fat) and American cookbooks call for heavy 
cream or heavy whipping cream (35 –42 per cent fat).
Tips for whipping cream:
* Chill the bowl you plan to use in the refrigerator. This ensures the cream stays chilled 
and reduces the chance of it separating.
* Expect cream to increase in volume by 2 –2½ times when whipped. To gain maximum volume, 
begin the whipping process at a slower speed, and increase the speed as the cream begins to thicken.
* If the cream begins to turn yellow, it has begun to overwhip and separate. Try mixing in 
more cream with a spatula until combined. If the cream is too far gone, however, your only hope is to turn it into butter and buttermilk
—continue whipping until the milk solids have 
separated from the milk fat.
* Add sugar to whipped cream when tracks begin to form. This helps to maximise its volume.
* To make cream lighter, add a dash of milk to the final stages of whipping. This mixture 
will not stand for as long.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 486Eggs
Tips:
* When I speak of eggs, I mean the freshest possible eggs you can get your hands on: their 
flavour is incomparable. If, like me, you’re an egg snob, the best place to buy eggs is at 
a local market direct from the farmer. Alternatively, the next best eggs are free range or organic.
* To set the record straight, a rooster is not needed for egg production in itself but for 
producing fertile eggs—that is, eggs that will hatch a chick after incubation. A rooster is good for waking people up at an ungodly hour, attacking the hand that feeds it, and mating with an entire yardful of hens. (Fertilised eggs can be eaten if they are collected as soon as they are laid—it takes 21 days of a hen sitting on an egg continuously to develop it into a chick.) Fertile and infertile eggs are equally nutritious. 
* Brown eggs and white eggs are exactly the same in flavour, quality and nutrition—the 
pigmentation is genetic, not to do with a hen’s diet or condition. Eggs only vary in flavour according to the conditions the hens are kept in.
* A blood spot on a yolk is not a sign that an egg has been fertilised; it simply shows 
that a blood vessel on the yolk’s surface burst while the egg was forming.
* Store eggs in the fridge in their cardboard box. (Eggs are porous and absorb odours from 
the fridge, which taints their natural flavour; the box will help protect them.)
* Buy eggs with a plan in mind. If baking a cake which may only use one or two eggs, plan 
on making an omelette or other egg-based dishes within a day or two of purchase.
* For cake and pastry recipes, room temperature eggs are a must, so remove from the fridge 
and rest on the bench for at least half an hour before starting the recipe. A cold egg mixed with room temperature batter will seize or cool the mixture and won’t mix in smoothly. Without a smooth, airy emulsion at this stage, a cake or pastry may become dry and grainy in texture or flat in appearance, cook unevenly or even sink slightly.
* Cream of tartar can also be used to stabilise egg whites: use 1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar 
for 1 egg white.
* When whipping egg whites, remember that there are four definitive stages that the whites 
go through. Stage 1 is the just beaten ‘foamy’ stage: the bubbles are big and the whites are still quite runny. Stage 2 is ‘soft peak’ where beating takes the whites to a foam which is white, shiny and forms a soft peak that folds over as the beater is lifted from the whites. Stage 3 is ‘firm peak’ where the whites have been beaten to their maximum size. It will form a stable peak of fine white foam when the beater is removed. The last stage (4) is known as ‘dry foam’. The foam is much drier, with no sheen and forms clumps. When the beaters are lifted, the ‘dry foam’ tends to break easily. This last stage is to be avoided.
* Beating egg whites in a copper bowl is proven to enhance the stability of the egg whites 
by imparting tiny copper particles. The slightly golden colour is a natural and safe result of the copper bowl. The only drawback is the expense and upkeep involved in owning copperware. A pinch of cream of tartar can also stabilise beaten egg whites so that they are less likely to fall apart.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 487Egg sizEs
 weight  size
jumbo, very large or extra large more than 73 g  0–1
large 63–73 g  1–3
medium 53–63 g  3–5
small or pee wee less than 53 g  5–7
How to cook Eggs Omelette is probably the only egg dish that should be cooked at a high heat. All other egg 
dishes should be cooked at moderate temperatures so as not to make the white turn rubbery. (Omelettes cook so quickly that the whites don’t have time to react in this manner.) 
For the perfect hard-boiled egg, without the nasty grey rim around the yolk, try this 
method. Place room temperature eggs in a pot of cold water and bring to the boil. Set the timer for 8 minutes from the moment the water begins to simmer. The water should never actually boil, just simmer. (Note that egg protein is delicate and should be cooked gently; boiling eggs makes the yolks hard and the whites rubbery.) When cooked, pour off the water, and place in plenty of cold water to halt the cooking process. For easy peeling, tap the eggs all over to crack the shell and place back in the cold water. Fresh eggs are always much harder to peel than older eggs, and chunks of the white will often come away. See boiled egg for more hard-boiled egg ideas.
For coddled or soft-boiled eggs for dipping toast soldiers, try this—bring plenty 
of water to simmering point. You can add salt and vinegar to help prevent the eggs from cracking. Use room temperature eggs, not eggs straight from the fridge (again to prevent cracking). Cook for 3, 4 or 5 minutes depending on how soft an egg you desire. See boiled egg for more soft-boiled egg ideas.
Scrambled eggs should be cooked over gentle heat with a bit of patience, otherwise 
you’ll end up with a hard, rubbery mass of weeping egg. Mix the eggs with water, milk, cream or (if you’re feeling decadent) mascarpone. Use a ratio of 1 egg to 1 tablespoon liquid. Add herbs towards the end of cooking. See scrambled egg for more scrambled egg ideas.
For poached eggs, there’s one true secret to producing the golf ball/comet-looking eggs 
found in the best breakfast joints around the world: freshness. The fresher the egg, the better the egg white will cling to the yolk. You can help this along by creating a whirlpool effect in the pot of simmering water and releasing the egg into the centre of the vortex. Adding salt or vinegar to the water may also help the whites to become firm. But at the end of the day, these tricks are irrelevant if the egg is not as fresh as possible. If you place an egg into the water and you find the white floats and disperses on the top while the yolk sinks to the bottom with merely a tail of white intact, chances are this egg is reasonably old and hardly worth eating.
For fried eggs, heat butter over medium heat until it begins to bubble, then turn the 
heat down, break in the eggs and cover the pan. The lid will enclose the steam which slowly cooks the whites on the surface. (I despise a crispy underside to my fried eggs. Heston Blumenthal, ‘the alchemist of British cooking’, separates the yolk from the white, gently fries the white, then adds the yolk towards the end of cooking—a great method that works well but isn’t always practical.)The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 488Problem solving
* Leftover egg yolks? Try hard not to break the yolks and place them in a glass or bowl. 
Cover with a bit of cold water and refrigerate for up to 3 days. I suggest making a 
mayonnaise or fresh custard. Leftover egg yolks can be frozen but will be gummy and unusable unless you add a pinch of salt or sugar before freezing. Label your yolks ‘savoury’ or ‘sweet’, depending on which you added, then defrost in the refrigerator before using as you would a fresh yolk.
* Leftover egg whites? Store in the freezer. Wash and thoroughly dry an empty plastic 
container with a screw-top lid. Add leftover egg whites and freeze. Continue to add whites until 2 cm from the top. Don’t forget to date the container, as whites will be at their best in the freezer for up to 3 months. Use egg whites for meringues and pavlovas. The problem then becomes one of volume, not numbers. Where a recipe asks for 3 egg whites, you now have a cupful at your disposal. As a guide, the white of one 55–65 g egg weighs 25–35 g. In other words, a little under half the weight of the entire egg is the white. 
* Dirty eggs? Wipe with a dry cloth. If you wash an egg, it will become even more 
vulnerable to absorbing fridge odours.
* Stuck to the carton? Wet the carton and the egg will come out with ease.
* How do I tell if it’s fresh? A fresh egg will sink when placed in water (unless it has 
been damaged). An egg that floats has lost moisture, which has been replaced by air in the blunt, fat end of the egg. The white of a fresh egg clings to the yolk when the egg is cracked onto a plate and the chalazae—(pronounced Kuh-Lay-zee) the two strands of connective tissue attached to the yolk which extend to either end of the shell’s membrane and anchor the yolk in the centre of the egg—is prominent. Also, egg white becomes more transparent as the egg ages (caused by the slow escape of carbon dioxide); fresh eggs have a cloudier white.
* Separating eggs and there’s eggshell shrapnel or egg yolk in the whites? Remove with 
an empty half eggshell. If a lot of yolk has managed to infiltrate the white, keep it for scrambled egg and start again. 
* Separating eggs and there’s egg white in the yolk? Don’t worry. It is highly unlikely 
that the white will affect the further use of the yolk. 
* Undercooked boiled eggs? If they’re still quite raw in the centre, peel all eggs, mash 
them together and quickly sauté in a bit of butter in a pan on the stove, just until the yolks have set. Cool immediately and use in sandwiches or eat while hot as a form of scrambled egg. 
* Curdled fresh egg custard? Take to it with an electric mixer. The sauce will now be 
fluffier and a little thinner than intended, but still usable.
* Collapsed soufflé? A collapsing soufflé is known as the ‘double deflation method’—as you 
helplessly watch the soufflé plunge below the rim of its receptacle, you witness too the deflation of your culinary ego. Turn the soufflé out of the mould and onto a baking tray. Place the turned out soufflé back in the hot oven for another minute or 2 and called it ‘twice-baked soufflé’. Although it will not rise the second time around, this dense, eggy pudding will have a more concentrated flavour. Serve it on a plate garnished with sauce or ice-cream or both. 
* Egg stuck to the dishes? Always use cold water to wash dishes with egg stuck to them. Hot 
water will only cook the egg onto the plate.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 489Other types O f egg
Eggs for cooking are most commonly those from hens. Eggs from other birds tend to be recipe 
specific and are rarely interchangeable.
Duck eggs (available from Asian grocers) can be used in many recipes that specify hens’ 
eggs, but the flavour is stronger, oilier and richer, and not to everybody’s taste. The flavour, naturally, is a cross between duck meat and egg. Duck eggs are also larger, so do not substitute 1 duck egg for 1 hen’s egg. Duck egg whites cannot be whisked successfully as they lack globulin, a protein that, when whisked, holds air bubbles. In Vietnam, fertile duck eggs are incubated until the foetal stage then boiled for 15 minutes and eaten with ginger, Vietnamese mint and soy sauce.
Quail eggs are readily available from poultry shops as well as some supermarkets. These 
delicately flavoured little eggs can be brutal on your patience if you have to boil and peel them, as the shell is delicate and somewhat elastic. If poaching or frying, always cut the top off them rather than cracking them in the middle like a hen’s egg, and pour onto a shallow dish or saucer before placing in the pan. Quail eggs take about 2 minutes to poach. When boiling quail eggs, swirl the water for half the cooking time to centre the egg yolk. They will take 3–4 minutes to hard boil.
Thousand-year eggs are not a thousand years old, because that would be just silly. 
There are three varieties: hulidan, dsaudan and pidan. For pidan eggs, duck’s or hen’s eggs are coated in a clay-like plaster of red earth, garden lime, salt, wood ash and tea. Once coated in this alkaline mud, they are buried in soil for 100 days to cure. The eggs can be eaten raw—usually with soy and ginger—or cooked after the coating is removed (scrape off and wash under running water). The flavour resembles lime and pungent ammonia. As for the colour, the whites turn amber to black and have a gelatinous texture and the yolk is dark-green with a creamy texture. Hulidan eggs are covered with a mix of salt and clay or ash and left in a cool, dark space for 1 month. When opened, the eggs have a partly solidified white and yolk with a salty flavour. Dsaudan eggs are packed in a mixture of salt and cooked rice and then stored for a minimum of 6 months, in which time the shell will soften and the insides will coagulate, producing an egg that is mildly salty and winey tasting. Also known as century eggs, hundred-year eggs, fermented eggs, ancient eggs or Ming dynasty eggs.
AlternAtives tO  eggs
Eggs act as a binding agent in recipes which makes it hard to find an exact replacement with 
equal properties.
‘Egg replacer’ is a powdered leavening agent made from toasted soy flour, wheat starch, 
lecithin, dextrose and guar gum. It is made to use measure for measure instead of whole eggs in baking: 10 g powder mixed with 40 g water = 1 egg.
For savoury dishes, the tofu-based products mock egg salad, imitation scrambled eggs 
and egg-free mayonnaise might be appropriate.
Not enough eggs for baking? Replace every third egg with 1 tablespoon cornflour. For 
recipes with 3 or more eggs, egg replacer is the best option. For recipes using 1 egg, use egg replacer or one of the following: 1 tablespoon soy flour mixed with 1 tablespoon water; ¼ cup ripe mashed banana or apple or prune puree; 3 tablespoons mashed tofu; or 1 teaspoon ground flaxseed mixed with 3 tablespoons water.
‘Egg cream’ contains neither eggs nor cream, but rather milk, chocolate and seltzer 
or soda water. It is a drink asked for in New York. When made with love, the froth on top resembles beaten egg whites. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 490Fats
Essential fatty acids (EFA) are essential to human health but our bodies can’t make them 
so they must be supplied through food or supplements. The two vital EFAs are omega-6 and omega-3 (see polyunsaturated and superunsaturated fats). EFAs are highly perishable, deteriorating rapidly when exposed to light, air, heat and metals, so they cannot be dried, powdered or stored for long periods. To get the most out of EFAs, choose fresh products.
Monounsaturated fats are good for us and should be included in our diet. Foods rich in 
mono unsaturated fatty acids are generally liquid at room temperature and semi-solid when refrigerated (for example, olive oil). Other foods high in mono unsaturated fatty acids include peanuts, pecans, cashews, macadamias, avocados and canola oil.
Polyunsaturated fats, also known as omega-6 EFAs, are the good guys and are found in 
grapeseed, corn, cottonseed, pumpkin, sesame, soy and walnut oils, and in safflower, sunflower and hemp (which have the highest EFA reading). However, polyunsaturated fats can be harmful when commercially processed.
Saturated fats are bad because they clog your arteries. Found especially in butter, 
eggs, beef, lamb, chicken and pork, saturated fats become especially harmful when prepared with high heat, that is, barbecued, fried, grilled or cooked at a temperature over 105°C. Cooked at low temperatures, saturated fats are less harmful. All oils and fats contain some saturated fatty acids—some other foods with high levels are palm kernels (88 per cent), coconut, cocoa butter and shea nut butter. Of course, these fats also provide flavour which is why it’s a good idea to cook the chicken with the skin on, or the steak with the fat left on, to keep the food moist and flavoursome, then remove the skin and fat before serving (before it goes on the plate, to avoid temptation).
Superunsaturated fats are often referred to as omega-3 EFAs and they’re another of the 
good guys. They are harder to come by than omega-6, but the richest source is flaxseed. They are also found in tuna, salmon and trout and in blackcurrant seed oil. In land animals, the brain, eyeballs, adrenal glands and testes are rich in superunsaturated fatty acids. 
Trans fatty acids are the really evil ones. They are the result of a chemical 
alteration, or trans formation, that converts ‘natural’ unsaturated fats into ‘unnatural’ unsaturated fats that act like saturated fats. However, trans fatty acids are worse for you than saturated fats because they interfere with the work that the natural essential fatty acids must do. Margarines, shortenings, shortening oils, and hydrogenated and partially hydrogenated vegetable oils contain a large amount of trans fat. Salad oils, butter, milk and meats generally have small amounts of trans fatty acids.
Vegetable fat is sold in a block form like butter and is generally used to replace 
butter in baking (although some are produced as solid oils for frying). Its use varies depending on the brand. Trex (UK) is used to replace butter in vegan cooking, especially baking. (When replacing butter with Trex, use 20 per cent less than the specified amount of butter, as Trex contains no water.)The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 491Fish
Fish and other seafood have such a staggering variety of species that they would have 
to be at the top of the list when it comes to the confusion surrounding names. On an international level, it becomes far more confusing, as each country and their respective cookbook authors call on seafood native to that region. To supply a universal dictionary of the names of all fish caught globally would be a mammoth task: even fishing bodies struggle to standardise a market name for each of their own country’s species, let alone collaborate to solve international naming frustrations. So although I have listed many of the more common alternative names for crustaceans and fish in this book, this general advice is probably the most useful: when using foreign cookbooks or travelling overseas, the key is to establish what kind of texture and flavour the recipe requires. Is it firm-fleshed or flaky, lean or oily, flat or round? (See below for a discussion of these categories.) Then ask for a fish with these specific qualities at the local market or fish shop rather than struggling with unfamiliar names.
The two main categories of fresh fish are flatfish and round fish. Flatfish are bottom-
dwellers which swim parallel to the ocean floor. The side that faces down is pale, while the upper side is dark and contains both eyes. Species include flounder, sole, brill, turbot (halibut) and plaice. You usually lose about 50 per cent of a whole flatfish in cleaning, preparation and removal of inedible parts; while the waste ratio of round fish is higher (60 per cent) due to the larger head. Flatfish are lean, and the best of them is probably the halibut (the largest flat fish in the world).
Round fish are, as the name suggests, rounder in shape, and have eyes on either side of 
the head. They are then divided into a further three categories of lean, moderate and high fat content. The higher the fat content, the darker, firmer and more distinctively flavoured the flesh becomes. ‘High’ fat means on average 12–14 per cent, although in eel it can be as high as 30 per cent. Fish in this category include butterfish, mackerel, tuna, salmon and sardines (pilchards). Fish species with lean fat content tend to carry their oil in the liver rather than the flesh. At about 2.5 per cent fat, lean fish are mild in flavour and lightly coloured. Fish in this category include red fish, snapper, bream, garfish and perch.
Fish with moderate fat content (6 per cent or less) include swordfish, whiting, ocean 
trout and barramundi.
Tips for buying fish:
* Use your eyes—and nose. First, look at the fish: you want to see bright, clear and often 
protruding eyes and a shiny, bright-coloured skin. The gills should be red to bright pink 
(as a fish ages, its gills turn to a light pink, then grey and finally to a greenish or dull brown). The outer skin should be firm to press and, if it hasn’t been scaled, it will have a natural film or slime. Your fish (and fish shop) should smell of the ocean, without any strong smell of overt fishiness or of ammonia.
* Ask the fishmonger to gut (draw) and scale (dress) the fish for you. This can save not only 
time but an unbelievable mess. A fully dressed fish usually means gutted and scaled, with gills, head, fins and tail removed.
* When buying fish fillets or cutlets, look for cleanly cut, firm, elastic, shiny, translucent 
flesh. Any fillets that appear dull and watery may well be old or defrosted. Fillets with drying or browned edges are not acceptable.
* Frozen fish should be bought tightly wrapped. If you notice freezer burns after 
unwrapping, take it back.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 492* Frozen seafood can, in some cases, be superior in quality to fresh. After being caught, 
fish to be sold fresh is held on fishing trawlers in ice slurries or in chilled sea water 
at 0°C. It could be days before it reaches the shop, while fish which is sold as frozen is ‘snap’ or ‘fast’ frozen on the ship so it doesn’t run the same risk of being overhandled, bruised or deteriorating in quality.
How to cook fisH
Fish is a delicate protein that I associate with egg white. In their raw state, both fish 
and egg white are translucent protein. Apply heat and both react in the same way: they change colour (from translucent to opaque) and texture (becoming firm). However, there the similarities end, as egg white can be cooked for a lengthy period and will still be quite edible, while fish needs to be monitored closely so it doesn’t become dry and tough. The proteins in fish need to only just set: the juices change from clear to white and the flesh becomes opaque but remains moist. If you continue to cook beyond this point, the fish will begin to ‘bleed’: the juices are forced from the flesh, leaving blobs of white protein on the surface of the cooked fish. The more juices forced from the flesh, the drier the meat you are left with.
Cooking fish in the microwave is asking for trouble, as the risk of overcooking is high. 
There are better ways. 
For the best results with defrosted fish, cook while it is still icy (before it starts 
to drip). Follow the recipe as if the fish were fresh but give it a longer cooking time—as much as 25 per cent more—and allow for it having a little extra moisture.
storage and preparation
Fresh fish is said to have a shelf life of 12 days from the moment it is caught, provided 
it is stored at 0°C, which should mean you have about 7 days with it. However, as most refrigerators sit on 4°C this cuts shelf life back to about 3–4 days after purchase. 
Be aware that the entrails of freshly caught or whole uncleaned fish decay faster than 
the flesh, which means you run the risk of spoiling your catch if you don’t clean it before storing.
Use a sharp pair of poultry scissors to trim the dorsal and tail fins from the body of 
the fish. This prevents them from burning if the fish is cooked near or over a naked flame.
When filleting flatfish at home, remove the fillets from the pale or white side first. This 
will make taking the fillets from the darker side easier. 
Frozen raw fish lasts about 6 months in the freezer. Defrost the fish, covered, in a 
refrigerator. This takes about 24 hours. Once defrosted, it does not have the tight, firm flesh characteristic of fresh fish and in some cases may be waterlogged or seem like a dish sponge, so take account of this when you are deciding what to cook with it.
Never re-freeze fish: it will cause the flesh to break down, go watery and lose flavour, 
and it poses a greater risk of food poisoning when the fish is defrosted the second time. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 493Flour
Flour is classified by its extraction rate, which is the percentage of wheat grain present 
in the flour. At the top end, coming in at 100 per cent, is wholemeal flour, with brown flour around 80–85 per cent, followed by plain flour at 75–80 per cent. The protein content determines how the flour performs during baking, as it is the protein that forms gluten. Generally speaking, bread and pasta is made with flour with a high protein content or hard flour (11–14 per cent) (in the case of pasta, this is because pasta dough must be rolled very thin which is easier with the elasticity of high-gluten flour); while cake-making or soft flour has a low protein content (7–10 per cent). Cakes or biscuits made with high-gluten flour will be chewier, especially if the dough or batter is mixed excessively. Vigorous mixing of any flour-based recipe (whether hard or soft) will work the gluten, which is why some recipes for scones, sponges, short pastry, etc. suggest mixing as lightly as possible. The protein content of flour is marked on the packet.
Tips:
* Sift flour two or three times before mixing with other ingredients. This aerates the 
mixture, as well as removing any lumps or foreign matter. Aerating ensures that the final 
product is given every chance of being light and fluffy.
* Add the sifted flour to the wet mixture, not the other way around. Use a metal spoon or a 
rubber or plastic spatula to fold the flour into the mixture. This cutting and folding also ensures the final mixture retains as much of the air as possible.
* If you find small brown insects (psocids or booklice, often mistaken for weevils) in your 
flour, dispose of it immediately. To avoid these little pests, buy smaller quantities of flour and store in an airtight container in a dry, cool place. Humidity can wreak havoc on dry goods in the tropics, so try storing flour products in the fridge, but remember that keeping them airtight is the key.
* Plain flours have a shelf life of 6–9 months if stored correctly. Wholemeal or brown 
flour’s shelf life is considerably less due to its fat content, so 2–3 months is recommended. 
Types of flour
In the following list of flours, w-f indicates wheat-free and g-f indicates gluten-free.
Amaranth flour (w-f, g-f) is made from the tiny seeds of amaranth, a plant that is related to 
spinach and beetroot (beets). (The leaves of the plant are also edible.) Amaranth flour is not designed for making leavened breads, as the result is too dense, but is great for flat breads, pasta, biscuits (cookies), pancakes and muffins. 
Arrowroot flour (w-f, g-f)—also called ‘arrowroot starch’ or simply ‘arrowroot’—is 
made from the arrowroot, Maranta arundinacea (although some varieties are made from plants such as banana, potato or tropical roots). It is higher in fibre than all other starches, by as much as 25 per cent, yet is still smooth, and has 1½  times the thickening power of plain flour. It’s great in baking and as a thickener, where it mixes clear, not cloudy (which is handy to know if thickening a clear liquid) and is often better than cornflour because it doesn’t impart a chalky taste if undercooked. Like all starches, mix arrowroot with a little cold water first to make a wet paste before adding it to the hot liquid. 
Barley flour (w-f) is made from barley and although barley contains gluten, the gluten 
is quite weak, so mix it with wheat flour when baking. For bread, a good ratio is to make the barley flour 25 per cent of the mixture. For other baking, mix 50/50 with other flours.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 494Bean flour (w-f, g-f) can be used to make pasta, crepes and flat breads, and some 
traditional Middle Eastern dishes.
Besan flour (w-f, g-f) —also known as ‘garbanzo flour’, ‘gram flour’ and ‘chickpea 
flour’—is made from finely milled chickpeas or pigeon peas (chana dhal or bengal gram). Used 
extensively in Indian cuisine as a batter, it also makes an excellent binding and thickening 
agent as well as panisses (chickpea fritters), breads, dips and desserts.
Bleached flour is whiter and contains less vitamin E than unbleached. Use it exactly as 
you do unbleached flour.
Buckwheat flour (w-f, g-f) is also known as ‘Indian wheat’. Pancakes and soba noodles 
are two well-known products made from buckwheat flour. Although the word ‘wheat’ appears in its name, buckwheat is totally wheat- and gluten-free.
Cake flour is a US product not readily available on European and Australasian 
supermarket shelves. Cake flour is made from soft wheat with as little as 9 per cent protein compared to the 10–12 per cent in plain flour and 12–14 per cent in strong flour. It is bleached with chlorine gas, which, besides whitening the flour, also makes it slightly acidic. This acidity makes cakes set faster and gives them a finer texture. If a recipe calls for the use of cake flour or soft wheat flour, use plain flour but substitute 10 per cent of the quantity with cornflour or potato flour. This will help soften the mixture.
Cassava flour (w-f, g-f) is made from the tuberous root of the cassava and is used to 
create tapioca products. For tapioca, a starch, the fibre element of cassava (approximately 12 per cent) has been removed. Pearl tapioca and tapioca flour are used as thickeners in soups and sauces or used in desserts. Tapioca flour can be used to make gluten-free bread, where it imparts a chewy texture. 
Chestnut flour (w-f, g-f) is a sweet flour used in desserts and batters. It should be 
fresh if it smells of chestnuts. Do not substitute with water chestnut flour, found in Asian grocers, which is used as a thickening and binding agent or to make water chestnut crackers. 
Cornflour (w-f, although many brands are made with wheat so check the labels before 
buying, g-f) has a very fine texture and is used as a thickener or in baking to lighten the texture of a product. It is known as ‘cornstarch’ in the US, and should not be confused with cornmeal.
Durum wheat flour is a hard wheat flour used to make pasta and noodles. (‘Hard’ in this 
case doesn’t refer to the level of gluten or protein but to the physical properties of the wheat which splinters when ground.) It is also referred to as ‘durum wheat semolina’, ‘fine ground semolina’ or ‘continental flour’. See also Semolina flour.
Gluten, while not a type of flour, is a substance found in wheat flour which affects the 
elasticity and texture of a dough. Some people require a gluten-free diet, most often those who are diagnosed with coeliac disease, also known as gluten-sensitive enteropathy. They must avoid wheat, oats, rye and barley, among other products. 
Gluten flour, made by the removal of the starch and the bran, can be added to plain flour 
to boost its gluten level so it resembles strong flour (see below).
Gluten-free flour is sold commercially. This flour is usually made from wheat with the 
gluten removed, so is often not suitable for people with wheat allergies. See also Gluten. 
Graham flour is a US product similar to wholemeal flour (which can be used as substitute).Jerusalem artichoke flour (w-f, g-f) is a useful alternative for people with 
hypoglycaemia and diabetes. It doesn’t thicken as other flours do, so is suited to pasta, pie crusts and biscuits.
Kamut flour is an ancient grain, twice the size of wheat and with 30 per cent more 
protein. It is used for baking (bread and biscuits) and pasta. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 495Kuzu/kudzu (w-f, g-f) is a starch (found in Asian grocers) made from the roots of the 
kudzu plant. It is used for thickening soups and sauces, and for coating food to be deep-fried. 
Legume flour (w-f, g-f) can be made from any legume: yellow or green peas, red or green 
lentils, or white, broad or lima beans. These flours can be mixed with other flours to add 
extra protein to gluten-free baking.
Lotus flour (w-f, g-f) has a moderate, pleasant taste that hints of sour, salt, bitter 
and—of all things—mild cheese. A truly unique taste (which can be neutralised with the addition of a little salt to the recipe). It is used for baking (breads and biscuits) and pasta. 
Malanga flour (w-f, g-f), from the taro family, is considered to be the most easily 
digested complex carbohydrate because the grains in the starch are so fine. Also said to be the most hypoallergenic of all the flours, it is used in baking and as an excellent thickener. 
Matzo is a Jewish unleavened bread made from flour and water and cooked very quickly so 
it doesn’t ferment or rise (hence it is said it must be mixed and cooked within 18 minutes). The resulting thin crisp cracker is then eaten as is or cooled and processed further as matzo flour (finely ground, for cakes and biscuits), matzo meal (coarsely ground, as a replacement for bread crumbs and for matzo balls or dumplings) or matzo farfel (little cubes used as a noodle or bread cube substitute).
Millet flour (w-f, g-f) is made from millet seed. Millet and millet by-products are 
considered animal fodder to many Westerners but they are a staple in African, Indian and Asian countries. The flour can be mixed with plain flour in baking, in a proportion of up to 30 per cent millet flour. Try mixing in some whole millet seeds for texture.
Nut flour (w-f, g-f) is derived from the ground ‘cake’ formed when oil is pressed from 
nuts such as almonds, macadamias, walnuts, chestnuts and pecans to name a few. Store in the fridge or freezer and use soon after purchase. See also Nut meal.
Nut meal (w-f, g-f) is ground from whole nuts, with the oil retained, to leave a 
coarse, oily mix which can turn rancid within weeks. Store in the fridge or freezer and use soon after purchase. See also Nut flour.
Oat flour (w-f) is used for thickening stews and soups. It is great in biscuits, muffins, 
breads and desserts.
OO flour (double O flour) is an Italian wheat flour with a low protein content. If none is 
available, use plain flour. Most commonly used for making pasta.
Pastry flour is a US product used for making pastries (as its name suggests), and sits 
somewhere between cake flour and plain flour in the protein content. It’s great for pie dough if ever you find it.
Plain flour, or all-purpose flour in the US, is the most common of the white flours. Use 
within 9 months or, for a long duration, keep in the fridge or freezer and bring to room temperature before cooking. 
Poi flour or poi starch (w-f, g-f) is made from dehydrated, fermented paste from taro 
stems. It is used extensively in Polynesian cuisine. 
Potato flour (w-f, g-f) is used primarily as a thickener and in gluten-free baking. 
However, it makes a great addition to cake recipes because of its ability to absorb moisture. Experiment with replacing some plain flour with potato flour in baking for a moister or drier final product. Try replacing 10 per cent of the flour or you can replace 1 cup of wheat flour with 
5/8 cup potato flour.
Quinoa flour (w-f, g-f), made from the quinoa (pronounced keen-wah) fruit, is sometimes 
found in pre-made pasta.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 496Rice flour (w-f, g-f), both white and brown, has a very light and airy texture and a 
slightly sweet flavour. It is used in desserts, cakes and biscuits, and as a gluten-free 
thickener.
Rye flour (w-f) is usually mixed with wheat flour to make bread; the lighter the bread, 
the more wheat flour in the mixture. Pumpernickel bread is high in rye, strong in flavour and deep in colour. Rye flour is low in gluten.
Sago flour (w-f, g-f), made from the stem of the sago palm, is used to make pearl sago 
for desserts, and to thicken soups, sauces and stir-fries.
Self-raising flour (self-rising flour in the US) is plain flour that has baking powder 
added. I suggest making your own when needed, as the baking powder in packaged self-raising flour absorbs atmospheric moisture over time and loses its leavening ability, even if stored in an airtight container. It is sometimes called ‘phosphated flour’ or ‘pancake flour’. For homemade self-raising flour—mix together: 1 cup plain flour, 1½ teaspoons baking powder and  ½ teaspoon salt.
Semolina flour is used for making couscous and pasta. Semolina is made from the coarsely 
ground endosperm of durum wheat. It is sold as extra fine, fine, medium and coarse, each of which are suited to specific cooking methods. Extra fine is used in fresh pasta and specialty breads. Known as ‘creamed wheat’ or ‘cream of wheat’ in the US and sometimes ‘farina’, fine semolina is used as a porridge or in cakes and biscuits. Medium and coarse are often used in dessert or pudding recipes.
Sorghum flour (w-f, g-f) is nutritionally packed and adds a great flavour to gluten-free 
baking when combined with other flour products. 
Soy flour (w-f, g-f) should be stored in the fridge or freezer, and must be mixed with 
another flour; by itself it is unappetising. It is rich in protein, so is used as a bread improver, and can help goods keep moist and last longer. Try replacing 2 tablespoons in every 1 cup flour with soy flour. Remember that baked products will brown more quickly if they contain soy flour, so use a temperature about 10°C lower than the recipe suggests. Soy flour can also be toasted before use to intensify its nutty flavour—do so in a dry pan over medium heat until the colour just begins to change. 
Spelt flour (w-f) is very low in gluten, and makes an excellent substitute for wheat, 
with its delicious nutty flavour. If making bread with spelt flour, use only three-quarters of the water specified in the wheat flour recipe.
Stone ground flours are wholemeal, either plain or self-raising. The best are organic 
and milled in small batches by water-powered stone mills—this crushes and grinds the whole grains slowly so flavour and nutritional oils are distributed throughout. (In contrast, most flour milling is done by high-speed steel cylinders or hammer mills, which heats and oxidies the grain, killing healthy enzymes and allowing oils to become rancid.) They have a slightly fresher flavour, a courser texture and a slightly better nutrient value than regular wholemeal flour.
Strong flour is also known as ‘bread flour’, ‘high gluten flour’ or ‘hard wheat flour’. The 
high gluten content of this flour makes it the ideal product for making bread, giving the final loaf a better structure. 
Teff flour (w-f, g-f), made from the world’s smallest grain, is packed with nutrients 
(proteins and calcium) and has been enjoyed for centuries by highland Ethiopians. It is used to make the spongy, sour flat bread ‘injera’ which is used to scoop up meat and vegetable stews and to line the trays on which stews are served, soaking up juices as the meal progresses—when this edible tablecloth is eaten, the meal is officially over.
Wholemeal flour, or whole wheat flour in the US, is a more nutritious flour than plain, as 
it contains all the bran and wheatgerm.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 497Herbs
I will always encourage people to try growing fresh herbs at home, in the garden or in pots 
on the windowsill or balcony. If you opt for potted herbs, I recommend the following four as a starting combination: flat-leaf parsley, rosemary, basil and thyme. Tips:
* Wash herbs only just before using them, as excess water can be absorbed through the 
leaves, causing black, slimy spots. 
* Store fresh herbs from the market in a plastic bag with the stem end wrapped in wet paper 
towel. 
* If the herbs have been purchased with the root still intact, stand them in a small amount 
of cold water in the fridge, covered with a plastic bag. 
* As a general rule, add woodier herbs (rosemary, thyme) early in cooking and soft herbs 
(basil, mint) at the very end of cooking.
* Dried herbs certainly have their place in the kitchen, but when they’ve lost their punch, 
toss them out and start again: replace any not used within a year of purchase.
* When substituting dried herbs for fresh, use about half the amount the recipe calls for, 
as dried herbs contain concentrated oils: 1 teaspoon fresh herbs = ½ teaspoon dried. If 
you have dried your own recently, it may be wise to use only one-third of the dried herb compared to fresh, as the dried herb will still have quite a kick. 
problem solving
Leftover herbs? The best option is to avoid leftovers by planning a second recipe to use up 
the remainder of the bunch. However, there are many uses for leftovers:
* Dry your own—not all herbs enjoy being dried. The best are those that contain volatile 
oils: rosemary, marjoram, savory, bay and thyme. Either hang them over the stove area or place on a tray in a warm, dry area of the house. Once dry, store in airtight jars.
* Store in vinegar—softer herbs, like parsley, tarragon, basil, dill and mint, lose more 
in the drying process so a good option is to steep in vinegar, then splash a little on the dish instead of the fresh herb.
* Store herbs in oil—chop finely or crush in a mortar and pestle then mix with a little 
oil. Store in the fridge for several weeks with the layer of oil sitting on top. Ideal for basil, coriander and dill.
* Freeze—most herbs can be frozen, left intact on the branch. The less you handle them 
before freezing, the better chance they have in the freezer. Wash, pat dry carefully (so as not to bruise them and release their oils), then pack in plastic bags, removing as much air as possible before freezing. Remember not to overcrowd the bag and to keep it flat. When you need the herb, just snap off the amount required and cut while still frozen. Defrosting the herb will make it too wet to work with. Another way to freeze herbs is to puree with water then store in ice trays. The ice cubes of herbs can be stored in plastic bags and then used for soups, stews or sauces. 
* Make herb butter—chop and mix with softened butter, roll in foil and freeze for later 
use. Try on herb bread or take a slice to have with a steak. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 498Types of herbs
Basil This fragrant herb doesn’t like to be heated for long periods so add at the end of 
cooking. Use in salads, or blend with cream cheese and use as a spread in sandwiches. Basil (and other leafy herbs) should be torn rather than cut to avoid bruising and loss of flavour. There are some amazing varieties of basil that are worth trying: look for holy basil, excellent with fish and seafood dishes of Asian inspiration: cinnamon basil, for use in biscuits and desserts; lemon basil, for curries, seafood, poultry, veal and salads; purple basil for flair; and Thai basil or horapa basil, with its strong aniseed aroma, for stir-fries, soups, curries and salads. 
Bergamot is both a citrus fruit and a herb of the mint family that has edible flowers 
and leaves. The herb is similar to eau de cologne mint, which is also known as orange mint. Dried bergamot is popular in the US for tea infusions (similar to lemon balm). Its aroma is not dissimilar to the bergamot orange, but the herb and fruit are not related.
Chervil is a herb with a delicate anise flavour, usually used to finish a dish or in a 
salad. Chervil is a component in the classic herb blend ‘fines herbes’. 
Chinese parsley see Coriander.Cilantro see Coriander.Coriander leaves and seeds taste very different so cannot be substituted for one 
another. Coriander leaf, also known as ‘cilantro’ in the US or ‘Chinese parsley’, is my favourite herb, with its enticing aroma and bold, refreshing and incomparable flavour. It is definitely one that should only be used fresh—when cooked or dried, the flavour diminishes greatly. The root is used extensively in Thai cuisine where it is pounded into pastes and dressings. Unfortunately, coriander root can be hard to come across, especially in supermarkets. If a recipe calls for root when none is available, try doubling the quantity of finely chopped stem, but bear in mind that this will produce a slightly different texture (slimier) and will not match the depth of flavour the root can provide. Coriander sold with its root intact can be stored in a small amount of water (1–2 cm only) and covered with a plastic bag—it will last for 1–2 weeks and longer if you change the water.
Curry leaf, a delicate herb with a pungency that resembles curry, can be found fresh 
in Asian grocers (sold in bags of small stems of soft, dark green leaves) although dried leaves are more readily available. The fresh leaves are vibrant, while the pre-packed dried leaves have little flavour. Fresh leaves can be toasted or oven-dried just before use to release the essential oils, then added to soups, sauces and curries. They are also delicious finely shredded in a spring roll or samosa mixture. Packets of leaves can be frozen (as you would kaffir lime leaves) then added to the dish straight from the freezer. And if you really like the flavour, it might even be worth planting one of these decorative leafy trees in the garden. 
Epazote is a pungent herb used especially in bean dishes in Central American countries, 
Mexico and New Mexico. It is said to make the beans more digestible. It is also available as a powder.
Fines herbes is a mixture of chopped herbs, usually chervil, chives, parsley and 
tarragon.
Marjoram and oregano are very similar herbs of the same genus, Origanum. Oregano is 
said to be a hardier plant, liking arid soils, and is stronger in flavour and more pungent; it is suited to Mediterranean-style cooking, with strong flavours. Marjoram is more delicate, appreciates a lighter cooking style (added to sauces or soups towards the end of cooking, or eaten raw in a salad) and is ideal as a pot herb. (Oregano has a root system that does not take to potting.) However, the difference isn’t substantial, and their flavour can be just as The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 499strongly determined by where the herb is grown: in plenty of sunlight, essential oils within 
the plant are more prominent and heighten the flavour. Both herbs like to be dried. Use fresh in salads, especially where tomatoes and onions feature. 
Mint is an easy-to-grow herb. The three main types are spearmint, peppermint and 
pennyroyal. Spearmint (garden mint) is the one most often used in the kitchen.
Orange mint see Bergamot.Oregano see Marjoram.Parsley is one of the most popular culinary herbs. The two main varieties of this 
herb are prepared quite differently. Curly parsley can be chopped ferociously, this way and that, and still present well. (The old method of wrapping the finely chopped parsley in a towel, washing it and then squeezing out whatever flavour and chlorophyll was left in it, ready to sprinkle over every dish on the menu, must surely be vanquished.) Flat-leaf parsley (also called ‘Italian parsley’ or ‘continental parsley’) should be torn by hand or run through with the blade of a knife once or twice only—a chiffonade of leaf, if you will. Any ferocious chopping attacks on this type of parsley bruise and damage the leaf. Flat-leaf parsley has more flavour and less bitterness than curly parsley. A third common variety is celery-leaf parsley: this is often tagged Italian parsley but is in fact a different breed altogether, and has a much tougher texture and stronger flavour. Parsley root, also known as ‘turnip-rooted parsley’ and ‘Hamburg parsley’ (although the Germans call it ‘Dutch parsley’—seems nobody wants to own up to its origin), is a subspecies grown for its beige root, which tastes like a parsley–celeriac cross. It’s used in parts of Europe in soups, stews and simply as a vegetable. Choose firm roots with feathery, bright-green leaves. All fresh parsley can be stored refrigerated in a plastic bag for up to a week. 
Rosemary is a tough herb that can be added at the beginning of cooking. Remove the 
leaves and grind in a mortar and pestle with sea salt to make a rub for lamb, chicken, beef or veal cuts. Rosemary keeps well in the fridge, but not in water: keep it dry in an airtight bag. You can also tie a string around the end of the bunch and hang it in the kitchen to dry. Rosemary flowers are also edible, if slightly bitter.
Sage has a powerful flavour so tends to be used 1 or 2 leaves at a time. Drying the 
remainder is an excellent option, as dried sage holds well in cooking for long periods. One way to use a bunch of fresh sage quickly is to make a chicken or veal ragoût, a long slow-cooking process well matched to this herb. Sage butter and sage oil are delicious (see Herbs—Problem Solving) and, need I say it, sage stuffing. Store sage in the same way as rosemary, dry and airtight in the fridge.
Shiso is a very popular herb in Japan, where the green leaves are used in salads, to 
wrap food, and in tempura, sushi and sashimi as a garnish. Also known as ‘perilla’, ‘Chinese basil’ and ‘wild sesame’. Red shiso is named ‘beefsteak leaf’ because of its colour. It is used extensively as a colouring and mild flavouring agent in pickled plums.
Thyme comes in many varieties, all of which can be interchanged successfully, despite 
obvious differences in pungency. Common thyme and lemon thyme suit most foods. I find myself drying the bunch as soon as it gets home—using it and hanging it up at the same time.
Za’atar, the Arabic word for ‘wild thyme’, is both a herb and a spice mix used in 
Middle Eastern cooking. It is sprinkled on bread before baking, and on soups, seafood, barbecued mutton and grilled meats. It is a blend of sumac, sesame seeds and the herb za’atar, and can be bought ready-made in Middle Eastern and Lebanese produce shops. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 500Lemons
Tips:
* Lemons are a rich source of vitamin C and their ascorbic acid content prevents 
oxidisation. Use lemon juice to stop some fruit and vegetables from browning, like bananas, 
apples and artichokes.
* Always wash and dry lemons before using the zest in cooking. This removes dust, mould 
and dirt which could affect the dish being cooked; and in the case of non-organic lemons, removes the insecticides, colour dye or wax they can be sprayed with (these can all be removed with soapy water).
* When grating the zest, place a piece of baking or silicon paper over the outside of the 
grater where it will stick to the rough edges. Grate to your heart’s content, peel off the paper and all the zest will come off with it.
* To get more juice from a lemon, roll it on the benchtop, applying pressure with the palm 
of your hand. This ‘bruising’ tenderises the membranes within the lemon. Or place the lemon in the microwave for 20–30 seconds before juicing.
* Leftover lemon juice can be frozen in ice–cube trays and when frozen kept in a clip–lock 
bag. Lemon zest also freezes well.
* For a dinner party, lemon halves wrapped and tied in muslin make an attractive addition 
to the table. A half lemon should last each person the entire meal, and the muslin prevents the seeds from popping everywhere.
meat
One way of thinking about different types of meat —rather than the usual divide between 
white and red—is whether the animal is ruminant or non-ruminant. Ruminant refers to any cud-chewing or cloven-hoofed animal with four legs. Keep in mind that recipes for one animal could lend themselves to another. Horsemeat, although not eaten in many countries, is popular in many European countries, especially Belgium, France and Sweden, where it outsells lamb and mutton combined. 
The best mince meat is the type you make yourself. If you don’t have a mincing 
machine, try cutting larger pieces of meat (usually scraps, off-cuts or cheaper cuts like skirt or flank) into 1–2 cm pieces before putting in the food processor on pulse so you can control how finely it is chopped. Hand-cutting meat for a good meat sauce is better left to a chef.
CuTs of meaT  and Common Terms
* Chuck steak is known as ‘round steak’ in the US, and is also called ‘stewing beef’ or 
‘casserole beef’.
* Corned beef is known as ‘cured beef’ or ‘corned silverside’ in the UK and can be called 
‘salt beef’. Canned corned beef is known as ‘bully beef’ in the UK.
* A cutlet is the lean loin with the bone on.
* A chop is a cut, bone in, from the shoulder and neck, and also the middle loin.
* An eye fillet steak or fillet steak is known as ‘tenderloin steak’ in the US and is also 
called ‘filet mignon’.
* Mince is referred to as ‘ground meat’ in the US. 
* Offal is known as ‘variety meats’ or ‘organ meat’ in the US.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 501* Rump steak is called ‘sirloin steak’ in the US, while sirloin in Australia or the UK 
refers to what Americans call ‘porterhouse’.
* Skirt steak is called ‘flank steak’ in the US and can be called stewing steak.
* A joint of meat is a large cut of meat with the bone.
How to cook meat
Bring meat to room temperature before cooking. Meat to be roasted, pan-grilled or barbecued 
should be left out of the fridge for a period of time (30 minutes to 1 ½ hours) to reach 
room temperature. This reduces the core temperature and the overall cooking time of the meat. 
Rest grilled or roasted meat after cooking. When raw meat hits the pan or oven, it 
begins to contract, and as it cooks and contracts, the juices (blood) are forced to the centre of the meat. If you cut into it immediately it is cooked, the juices will still be concentrated in the centre. Allowing the meat to rest and cool a little, relaxes the meat fibres and lets the juices redistribute evenly throughout the meat. The more juices, the more flavour and tenderness. The larger the cut of meat, the longer the resting time required. Rest the average steak in a warm place for 5–10 minutes, and a large roast for up to 1 hour covered in foil. (Braised or stewed meats do not need to be rested.)
Frying or grilling 
Remember ‘hot’ when exposing meat to a pan or grill top; a continual sizzling sound should always be present. Brown the meat on both sides in a hot pan then adjust the heat to finish, but be careful not to drop the heat so much that the meat starts to stew. It is sometimes recommended that thick-cut steaks be finished in a hot oven. This practice helps those who are in the habit of turning their meat 50 times to stop it from burning before it is cooked, but is really only suitable for those who enjoy cremating their food.
Sealing meat to lock in the juices
New research shows that it is in fact a fallacy that moisture is retained by sealing meat (see also Braising). However, browning the meat before finishing the cooking enhances its flavour and texture: it adds a delicious crust that contrasts satisfyingly with a rare centre. 
to salt or not to salt?
When anything with a water content, whether meat, fruit or vegetables, comes into contact with salt, the salt will begin to draw out the water. The amount of salt and the time the food is exposed to it will determine the extraction rate of moisture. So a steak that is salted and left to sit while the pan heats up will lose valuable juices, while a steak that is salted after it is cooked misses the point, as the meat has already been sealed. The best option is to season the meat with salt just before it hits the pan, ready to be sealed. This way the salt cooks onto the meat, enhancing the flavour of the cut, without drawing out valuable juices. Watch as crystal salt flakes caramelise on the surface of the meat when exposed to a hot pan. 
Roasting 
Having the meat boned then netted or trussed by the butcher is recommended to hold plain or filled roast cuts in an even shape while roasting, portioning and carving. Season the joint with salt and pepper, spice rubs or pastes or chopped herbs. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 502Seal or brown very lean cuts of meat (beef, veal or lamb) before roasting. Pre-sealing 
a roast in a hot pan improves colour and flavour, particularly when using small, very lean 
beef or lamb cuts that need only a short amount of cooking. 
Sealing a joint before moving it to the oven forms a crust and cooks on the seasonings, 
and allows the oven to be kept on a lower temperature (160°C).
A digital meat thermometer (probe) is a wise investment if you roast a lot of red meat. 
Insert the thermometer into the thickest part of the meat, away from any fat or bones (which have a higher temperature reading while cooking), as it goes into the oven and leave it there the entire time the meat is roasted. Depending on how you like your meat cooked, the core temperature will let you know when to remove the roast. This is as close to foolproof as you can get. Core temperatures for doneness are: 45°C = rare; 55°C = medium-rare; 65°C = medium; 75–80°C = well to very well done. Also take into account that while the meat is resting, it is in fact still cooking and the core temperature can rise by another 2°C for a small roast to 8°C for a large joint of meat. 
If a thermometer is not available then the old ‘time by weight’ method will do just 
fine. Allow 30 minutes for every 500 g. For example, 1
½ hours for a leg of lamb that weighs 
1.5 kg. 
Crumbing or breading 
Never add salt to meat before crumbing. It will draw out the moisture and make the crumbs turn soggy. Instead, season the egg mixture and the flour with salt and pepper.
To add flavour to the meat, you can stuff it or marinate it (remember to pat dry with 
paper towel before crumbing). To add flavour to bread crumbs, rub in freshly crushed garlic (2 teaspoons crushed garlic for every 500 g bread crumbs will get you started) or add freshly ground black pepper and torn or roughly shredded flat-leaf parsley. Your homemade parmigiana will never taste the same again.
Braising
For most braised dishes, the cut of meat is first dredged in flour then pan-fried. The flour acts as a thickening agent as well as adding colour to the sauce. The purpose of this is not to lock in the juices, as braising meat may take several hours in which time any juices that were ‘locked in’ have well and truly escaped into the braising liquor. Never assume that the longer meat braises the better off it will be. Meat can overbraise to the point where it falls off the bone or turns into mush. Depending on the type, size and cut of meat, stick to the requested time limit, check for done-ness, then give or take time after checking. 
Pot roasting 
Resist adding too much liquid or the pot roast will become a stew. 
Problem solving
* Steak curls as it cooks? Some cuts have a tough membrane attached to the meat that when 
exposed to heat causes the cut of meat to curl or twist, making the opposite side near 
impossible to brown evenly. Simply place small incisions at intervals in the membrane, making sure the cut goes through to the meat. 
* Is the steak done? When pressed with a finger, a cooked steak will feel different (softer, 
firmer, springier) depending on how well it is done. The professional cook learns by experience to tell a rare from a medium-rare steak, but for domestic cooks who don’t cook hundreds of steaks a year, telling the difference can be difficult. A good way to learn is to The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 503make a small incision in one side of the steak and look to see how done it is. (Remember to 
serve with the cut side down.) Of course, the sealed surface area has now been cut, allowing valuable juices to escape. So once the incision has been made, also press the meat with a finger and remember what that pressure feels like. Soon you will be able to tell what a rare steak feels like without having to cut into it.
* Undercooked one person’s steak? Slice it in two (lengthways) and place back in the pan 
for another minute or so; now you have two steaks.
* Undercooked roast? As you usually don’t discover it’s undercooked until you’ve started 
carving, placing it back in the oven is not an option. The best thing to do is slice the meat a bit thicker and finish cooking each piece as a steak. 
* Burnt a casserole, stew or soup? Don’t stir it! Plonk the pot immediately into a sink of 
cold water to stop the cooking. This is an important step. Then lift out the ingredients without disturbing the bottom of the pot, and place in a fresh pot or dish. Taste the food to assess whether the burnt flavour has permeated the liquid and if so, by how much. If it’s really bad, the bin is the only option. If it tastes only slightly burnt, try masking the flavour with a sauce such as Worcestershire sauce, barbecue sauce or tomato paste, or with other strong flavours such as garlic, chilli or onion (sautéed first in a separate pan) or spices (dry-roasted first). 
Beef
Aged beef is beef that is hung in the butcher’s cool room for as little as 5 days or as long 
as 21 days (any longer and the meat is thought to deteriorate). Hanging the beef (which can be done by several methods) allows enzymes within the meat to start breaking down muscle fibres, rendering it tender and tasty. Some muscle groups age at different rates, depending on the hanging method, and generally only the best cuts are reserved for hanging. There is little advantage in hanging stewing beef or beef ready for mincing.
Tips:
* I recommend the personal experience of buying beef from a butcher, who, if you’re loyal, 
will source, cut, hang (age) or put aside meat just for you. It beats peering for colour and 
marbling through the plastic wrap in the supermarket, and has the advantage that they can help choose the best cut for the dish you are planning.
* Remove any ‘silver skin’ from beef (and other meats) with a sharp knife to prevent the 
meat from contorting when cooked. Better still, ask your butcher to remove it for you to save time and wastage of precious meat.
* Grass-fed versus grain-fed—the majority of the world’s population wouldn’t know the 
difference, nor would the majority of the world’s professional cooks. Keep in mind that many things determine the outcome of the final product, from stress and drought experienced by the animal while still alive, through to ageing and cooking technique. Most of the beef in Australia is grass-fed, and is generally favoured for its flavour.
* Bone-in versus bone-out—cooking meat on the bone does contribute to flavour, and the bone 
can also act as a mild heat conductor to help in the cooking process. However, if you are in a hurry and lack carving skills, buy your meat boned and rolled; the loss in flavour is not significant.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 504Lamb and mutton
Mutton was often considered tough and stringy, but due to modern breeding and farming 
methods, the meat produced now is both tender and flavourful. Mutton has a more robust flavour than lamb, an off-white fat that springs back to the touch (lamb has a firm, creamy-white fat), and it turns cherry-red when cut, then darkens with age (lamb stays a pinkish-red colour). Darker mutton may still be good, strong in aroma, and should be cooked and eaten immediately. As mutton is a tougher piece of meat, marinating or tenderising with a meat mallet will soften the connective tissues. Mutton is not easily available, but can be purchased at butchers.
Pork
Pork is often associated in Western countries with a roast and the crackling that 
accompanies it. Yet there is so much more on offer, from the lean fillets to the very tasty neck. Pork is the most important meat in Chinese cuisine, and in fact is the most consumed meat in the world (it makes up 44 per cent of the world’s consumption compared to 28 per cent beef and 24 per cent chicken).
Roast pork is ready when the juices run clear after the meat is speared with a skewer. 
Overcooked pork meat is, in general, dry and tough and needs a bucket of moist apple sauce to compensate. People tend to overcook it for fear of the disease trichinosis which is caused by a parasite. However, trichinosis is, in fact, associated with raw pork products and wild game, and has never been reported in Australia. It’s important to follow correct food handling and storage methods, but there’s no need to cook pork until it becomes a leather substitute.
Crackling or pork rind—there never seems to be enough of the stuff. I admit to once 
standing over a spit roast with a large joint of pork rotating in front of me, and with one other’s help, successfully eating the entire provision of crisp, bubbled rind in a very short period of time. Funny thing, karma
—I broke a tooth, such were my gluttonous ways. 
I suggest you ask for an extra slab of pork rind, fat intact, when you buy your roasting joint. (The fat that runs along the back of the pig, just under the skin, is also called ‘fatback’ or ‘speck’ and, when rendered, becomes lard.) You can remove the skin from the joint to maximise the yield of crackling, remembering that roasting the crackling (rind/skin) off the meat can mean major shrinkage because the skin will no longer protect the tender white meat from drying out too much.
rabbit
There is no greater deceit than lying about what you’re feeding people, and discovering as a 
kid that the chicken I thought I was eating was in fact rabbit was just not cool. Although I licked the plate clean, I admit I would not have touched it had I first been told what it was. Some 20 years later, I marvel at the comeback and chic appeal of rabbit and hare on restaurant menus. European cooks never lost touch with rabbit and hare, and have developed countless ways of preparing them. Marinades are often used, with hare in particular, to improve the flavour, and braising and casserole cooking have long been favoured to retain juiciness. However, a saddle of young hare or rabbit, quickly roasted until well browned but still quite pink in the centre, can be one of the juiciest and most tender cuts of meat.
Rabbit and hare are readily available at butcher’s and specialty game and poultry 
shops. Rabbit is low in cholesterol, and it’s still an economical meat. Rabbits usually weigh 800 g–1 kg. Farmed white rabbits, known as New Zealand white rabbits, are less widely The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 505available, as there are very few licensed farms. Farmed rabbits weigh about 1.5–2 kg and the 
meat is whiter, more tender and slightly fattier. Due to disease and the release of a killer virus in 1997, wild rabbits are no longer available on the retail market in New Zealand. Incidentally, possum meat is similar in size and taste to rabbit and therefore rabbit recipes can be easily adapted.
MushrooMs
* Although we think of mushrooms as a vegetable, they are in fact the fruiting bodies of 
higher fungi. The fruiting body is the sexual stage in the life cycle of the fungus.
Tips:
* When buying mushrooms, look for smooth, firm caps, free from major blemishes. The 
mushroom’s surface should be dry but not dried-out looking.
* Store mushrooms in paper bags or, if packaged, remove the plastic wrap and cover loosely 
with paper towel. Place in the refrigerator for 5 days or longer. Avoid airtight plastic 
bags—this causes moisture condensation which speeds degradation.
* Most mushrooms can be frozen successfully—the texture will change, but the flavour won’t. 
(Add to the dish while still frozen.) Delicate mushrooms such as oyster or enoki should not be frozen.
* Brush any dirt or foreign matter from mushrooms with a damp cloth or paper towel. 
Mushrooms shouldn’t be washed as they absorb water. Use a pastry brush to remove other debris clinging to the underneath or stem.
* The white flesh of mushrooms will brown after being sliced. This does not affect the taste 
but you can avoid it by brushing with lemon juice.
* Not all mushrooms should be prepared in the same manner; some shine with most cooking 
methods, in soups, stews, ragoûts, sauces and stir-fries, while others love just oil and butter. European mushrooms do well sautéed or used in cream sauces, while Asian varieties excel in soups and stir-fries.
oil
Tips:
* Always check the use-by date on oil before buying. Oils should also carry a ‘packaged on’ 
date and the closer to the packaged date you can buy an oil, the fresher it is. Be wary of oils that are reduced in price, as they could well be old. 
* Keeping oil in the fridge is not necessary but is an option. Oils higher in fat content, 
such as olive oil, tend to solidify and turn opaque in the fridge. Simply bring to room temperature before use. If preparing freshly chopped garlic or chillies to store in the fridge, it is best to use a vegetable oil to avoid having it solidify in cold storage.
* Buy oil in smaller quantities if you keep it near the stove.
* Keep oil out of direct sunlight. Store in a place that is cool, dry and dark, such as 
a pantry or cupboard. Buying oil in a tin is advantageous, as light cannot penetrate the container.
* All fats and oils eventually break down and become rancid with prolonged exposure to air, 
light and heat. The only way to tell if an oil is old or rancid is to open it and smell. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 506Rancid oils have a stale, soapy smell and lose the strong characteristics of that particular 
oil as well as forming free radicals (which change cell membranes, suppress the immune system and promote the development of cancer and arteriosclerosis). If an oil is rancid, take it back to the shop if it is newly purchased or throw it out, there is nothing that can be done. Once you are used to detecting the rancid odour, you may well be surprised at how often you encounter the smell in other fat- or oil-based products.
* Oils made from nuts are the most unstable of all oils (although macadamia is the best of 
them), so buy in smaller quantities and try to use well before the use-by date.
* If you deep-fry often, speak to your local council as they may have a collection depot 
nearby where you can drop off used cooking oil to be sold to companies that make truck fuel or soap—true.
* Recycled oil can be used for day-to-day cooking as well as further deep-frying. 
Polyunsaturated oils can only be used once, while olive oil and unrefined peanut oil last longer and can be strained and reused two or three times. 
* Oil that has had seafood cooked in it should not be reused to cook sweet foods, but can 
be reused to cook more seafood. However, oil that has been used to cook say, donuts, can be reused to cook seafood.
* Never get in the habit of pouring oil down the sink. Pour cold oil into an empty plastic 
or metal container with a lid (old milk or cream containers, jam jars and the like) before putting in the rubbish. Some countries have depots where used cooking oil can be dropped off. If you feel you go through enough oil to justify a trip to the depot, then I suggest giving your local council a call to find out if this service is available to you.
The besT  oil for T he job
For salads and other cold dishes where the oil will be tasted clearly, try the stronger oils 
like walnut, hazelnut, macadamia and extra virgin olive oil. Flavoured oils like citrus, chilli, coffee, herb, garlic and others are intended to give flavour and lift to an otherwise drab dish or salad. Sesame oil is misunderstood and often abused: use it in small quantities as a seasoning, as you would salt and pepper, in stir-fries or Asian-style dressings. 
For cooking, use unrefined oils. A quality roasted peanut oil is good for cooking as well 
as salads but unrefined peanut oil is better for frying. There is a school of thought that believes any oil becomes toxic once heated and so oil should never be used for cooking— here 
is not the place to analyse that theory. Certainly, the hotter the oil gets, the faster it will oxidise and break down. Shortly before smoking point, oils begin to decompose, thus forming free radicals and acrolein, a toxic smoke. Oil at smoking point is generally considered not fit for human consumption, as it cannot be properly digested by the liver.
The following fats and oils are low in essential fatty acids (see Fat), therefore 
produce the lowest amount of toxic molecules when heated. So although most of them are saturated fats, they are considered the better option for cooking: butter, lard, tropical fats (coconut and palm oil), high oleic sunflower (not ordinary sunflower) oil, high oleic safflower (not ordinary safflower) oil, peanut oil, sesame oil, canola oil and olive oil—in that order of preference.
Choose unrefined oils where possible. Refined oils are unbalanced oils. They have 
had vital elements removed to extend shelf life and profitability. Often removed are lethicin (which makes digesting oil easier), anti-oxidants (like vitamin E and carotene), phytosterols (which provide protection for the immune and cardiovascular system), and chlorophyll (an essential source of magnesium, which is required for muscle, heart and nerve functions). In addition, these elements are removed with corrosive bases, window-washing The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 507acids and bleaching clays. The oils are then heated to frying temperatures before being 
packed into bottles or tins. Sunflower, safflower, canola, soy bean, corn and vegetable oils are just some of those on the supermarket shelf that are worth thinking twice about. 
Palm oil can be white or red. Red palm oil is extracted from the fibrous flesh around the 
nut of the fruit of the oil palm, while the white oil comes from the palm kernel itself. It is used liberally in soups and sauces, yet without making them greasy or oily. Both palm oils are high in saturated fats, although the red (50 per cent) has far less than the white (80 per cent). Palm oil is also known as ‘manja’ or ‘zomi’.
OniOns
Problem solving
How to prevent tears while working with onion? There’s no perfect answer, short of 
engineering a genetically modified onion void of all sulphur compounds, but the following can help: keep onions in the fridge, as the cold subdues the substance known as allicin, produced when an onion is cut; peel onions under water, although this washes away the natural ‘bite’ onions produce; and leave the root end intact when peeling, as this contains the largest amount of sulphuric compounds. Onions grown in soil that contains a higher level of sulphur compounds are stronger and more tear-inducing. 
TyPes of onion
Brown onions (yellow onions in the US) are the most common cooking onion. They’re usually 
too strong to be eaten raw.
Eschalots are indeed favoured by chefs over onions because of the sweeter flavour. 
Peeled and kept whole, eschalots are ideal for roasting, braising or for pickling.
Green onions are a general term used to describe both the salad onion and the spring 
onion (see below) and any harvested bulb with green shoots intact. 
Pickling onions are small and good for cooking as well as pickling. Pearl onions, 
boiling onions (small brown onions) and cippolini onions are all pickling onions.
Red onions are sweeter than brown and are often eaten raw but cook just as well. There 
are several varieties of red onion, some a little more elongated with a bit of a green sprout at the top (Burmuda onions). Red onions are sometimes mistakenly called ‘Spanish onions’.
Salad onions are a slightly more developed spring onion, harvested from 4 months 
on, giving them a more rounded bulb. Salad onions have the advantage that they are sold separately, not in a bunch, so if ever a recipe calls for a small amount of spring onions, you can buy a salad onion or two instead, and use the inner green leaves only. The bulbous part can be used in salads or in cooking. They are known as ‘spring onions’ in the US and ‘green onions’ in the UK.
Shallots grow as a small group or cluster of onion bulbs. Popular in French and Asian 
cuisines, shallots have a brown/golden skin or a pink/purple skin. Shallots are favoured in sauces for their mild flavour. ‘Shallot’ is a name used for the spring onion in New South Wales where the word ‘eschalot’ refers to the true shallot. 
Spanish onions are similar to brown onions only larger and sweeter and they are 
seasonal (spring to summer).
Spring onions are green onions, harvested from 8 weeks after seed to prevent a bulbous 
end forming (so they are an even width from top to bottom). Buying a whole bunch can mean The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 508wastage so, to lengthen storage time, divide into 3 smaller bunches, wrap each in plastic 
wrap and keep in the fridge. In many parts of the world, the misnomer ‘scallions’ or ‘shallots’ is used to describe spring onions. 
White onions are sharper and spicier than brown onions but lack their big, rounded 
flavour. Their tang makes them a popular choice in Hispanic cooking.
Pasta 
Pasta is often made with durum wheat (semolina) flour (see Flour) because of its high protein content (15 per cent, too high for successful bread-making). The protein forms strong gluten strands which help the dough retain elasticity when it is extruded through the pasta machine. Pasta made with soft wheat flour is usually mixed with eggs to reinforce the dough, which is not necessary with the strong durum flour. However, eggs can be added to any flour for a richer pasta (pasta all’uovo). Experiment with hen’s or duck eggs, starting with 1 egg for every 200 g flour.
Some brands of dried pasta (pasta asciutta) can be just as good if not better than 
fresh pasta (pasta fresca). Dried pasta has a shelf life of up to 2 years. Fresh pasta is best used immediately or stored in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days. It may also be stored in a cupboard for up to a month but obviously will dry out in that time.
Tips for cooking pasT a:
* 500 g (1 lb) dried pasta will give the same cooked volume as 750 g (11/2 lb) fresh.
* The size of a single serve varies, of course, but a good starting point is 100 g dried or 
150 g fresh per person.
* Al dente translates as ‘to the tooth’. When a recipe asks for something to be cooked al 
dente, that doesn’t mean the food should be as hard as a tooth, but rather that it is cooked 
through while still firm to the bite. Al dente usually refers to cooking pasta or rice, but can sometimes be used to describe other cooked foods. 
* The most important thing is to use plenty of boiling, salted water: 1 litre plus a very 
generous pinch of salt for every serve (100 g) of pasta. Salt is important, as it brings out the flavour of the pasta. (Obviously, you’ll make your own judgement if you are trying to reduce your salt intake.)
* Fresh pasta should be ready in 2–3 minutes, gnocchi are ready when they rise to the top, 
and dried pasta is ready in 5–12 minutes, depending on the type (follow the instructions on the packet). I like to undercook the pasta and then finish cooking it in the sauce.
* Adding oil to pasta water is absolutely not necessary. With the exception of fresh 
lasagne sheets, pasta does not benefit from the addition of oil. The real secret to stopping it sticking together is to stir the pasta for the first 2 minutes after adding it to the pot. Move the pasta around the pot with a wooden spoon, this allows the water to cook the outer part of the pasta, making it slippery, not a starchy glue.
* Once it is cooked, drain the pasta, setting some of the cooking water aside as this can 
be used to thin pasta sauces if stock is not available.
* Never rinse pasta in water after draining as this washes away the natural sticky starches 
that help the sauce stick.
* If you are keeping the pasta for later use, toss it in olive or vegetable oil after 
draining, then spread thinly on trays, allowing the pasta to cool quickly. To reheat, either drop it in boiling water for 10–15 seconds or microwave, covered, for 30 seconds. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 509Problem solving
Pasta stuck together? Cooked pasta that is really stuck together is best kept for a baked 
pasta dish. Cool the pasta, then mix with sauce, vegetables or tinned tuna and cheese, and place in a hot oven for 30 minutes. 
Pastry 
Bought pastry, although handy, will never match the quality of rich, fresh homemade pastry: mass-produced commerical pastry is made in bulk using a rolling machine and inferior fats, and pastry made at home with butter and in small batches will always be tastier. See Pastry recipes.TiPs:
* Always chill raw pastry for 30 minutes before rolling it out, then for another 20–30 
minutes before putting it in the oven. This allows the gluten in the flour to relax, preventing unnecessary shrinkage while baking. 
* Pastry rolled out on marble is significantly better than other surfaces due to the 
marble’s capacity to absorb heat. This keeps the butter or fats within the pastry cool and workable. 
* Transferring pastry from the workbench to the tart tin or pie dish can be the cause of 
much frustration. Work quickly and confidently. The longer you work it, the warmer it gets, becoming soft and unmanageable. This is especially true of shortcrust or sweet pastries. Here are two methods:
1 Quickly roll out the dough between layers of plastic wrap. Ensure the plastic wrap is wide 
enough that the pastry won’t spill out the sides. Then remove the top layer of plastic, pick up the bottom piece with the pastry stuck to it and transfer to the pie dish.2 Roll out the dough on a work bench, dust lightly with flour, fold into quarters, transfer to the dish with the point of the fold in the centre of the dish, then simply unfold.
* Brush a little water around the top edge of the pie base before covering with the pastry 
lid. This helps strengthen the seal when the two are crimped together. 
* Once the dough or pastry has been moulded into the tin or dish, allow it to rest in the 
fridge for at least 20 minutes before baking.
* For a glossy pie crust, brush with egg white before baking. Puff pastry, whether bought 
or homemade, should be glazed carefully before baking for the best presentation.
* Splashing milk or egg wash over the outer cut edges of the pastry will act as a glue and 
retard the rising of the pastry when baked.
* Get into the habit of placing a tray or large baking dish in the oven under the pie to 
catch spillage.
Cooking P asTry
Blind baking pastry is the technique of partially cooking the pastry case before the filling 
is put in it. This ensures that the pastry is cooked through and that it is crisp, so it doesn’t get soggy when the filling is added. (It is particularly useful for wet fillings.) To prevent steam building up under the pastry, causing it to bubble, the uncooked pastry is weighed down in the dish or pricked all over before baking. To blind bake, cover the pastry case with a sheet of baking paper, then scatter rice, dried beans or pie weights on top. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 510Cook for 10–12 minutes. Alternatively, you could freeze the prepared pastry case for 15–20 
minutes before baking. If any bubbles appear while the pastry is baking, pop them with the tip of a knife.
Docking pastry means placing small holes around the dough with a pastry docker or a 
fork. This helps prevent the dough from bulging while it is baking. The downside is that it leaves small holes in the cooked pastry.
A pie funnel is a hollow funnel, usually about 7.5 cm tall, that is placed in the 
centre of the pie before cooking. It aids heat distribution, supports the top pastry crust and allows liquids to reduce, thus enhancing flavour and helping avoid soggy pastry. It is also known as a ‘pie bird’, as many are made to resemble blackbirds (I shall stop short of reciting the rhyme), and other shapes like elephants, chefs and songbirds are common. I’ve also seen ‘tweety bird’ and ‘naked women’ pie funnels—don’t ask.
Problem solving
* Parts of the pastry colouring too quickly? Remove from the oven and cover the ‘burning’ 
pastry with a strip of foil. 
* To avoid soggy pastry in a tart case, remove it from the oven after blind baking, take 
out the paper lining filled with beans, rice or weights, then, while still hot, brush with a 
beaten egg and return to the oven for the prescribed time, usually another 10 minutes. The egg will cook, forming a glaze or impervious layer, ready for the filling. Alternatively, you could brush a thin layer of melted chocolate inside the case when it is cold: allow the chocolate to set before filling.
* Soggy lid? Use a pie funnel. If you don’t have one, try putting a piece of dried pasta 
such as rigatoni or large macaroni into the centre of the pie. This will act as a chimney, allowing excess heat and steam to escape.
* Shrunk pastry? Pastry shrinks during baking because of high water content in the dough. 
As the water evaporates, the dough loses volume. So try using less water next time. If the dough was made without water yet still shrinks, chances are the pastry was stretched and forced into the dish, or that you didn’t rest it in the fridge before baking.
Potatoes
New and old, waxy or floury, so many styles and varieties—cooking with potatoes can be a laboratory full of experiments. Selecting the best potatoes for boiling, frying, mashing, roasting, salads, gratins, baking, steaming, sautés or even for gnocchi can be a trial-and-error journey. In general, waxy are good for salads, steaming and boiling and do not take well to mashing, roasting and baking. Floury potatoes are better suited to dry baking, roasting, mash and chips. They can be used like waxy if they are not overcooked, as they will dry and crumble. 
For fluffy mashed potato, heat the milk or cream before adding it with a touch of butter 
to the mashed potatoes. Potatoes can also be mashed with a good extra virgin olive oil or a non-dairy dip instead of milk, cream or butter. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 511Best use for different varieties of potato 
Baking (dry)—King Edward (the best), Bintje, Pontiac, Crystal, Sebago, Delaware, Kennebec, 
Wilwash.
Frying—Idaho (Russet Burbank, the best), Kennebec, Maris Piper, Crystal, Sputna, 
Delaware.
Gnocchi—Desiree (the best), Toolangi Delight, Purple Congo (although the colour may be 
too much for some).
Mashing—Sebago (the best), Pontiac, Toolangi Delight, Desiree, Spunta, Bison, 
Kennebec.
Roasting—Desiree (the best), Spunta, Crystal, Delaware, Idaho (Russet Burbank), 
Kennebec, Pontiac, Bison.
Salad—choose the waxy variety, whose starches settle and hold firm after cooking (take 
care not to overcook them and allow to cool thoroughly before use)— Kipfler (the best), Ratte, 
Pink Fir, Pink Eye (Southern Gold), Bintje, Wilwash, Wilja, Coliban, Pontiac, Nicola, Patrone.
sweet potato
Sweet potato comes in differing shapes, colours and sizes. Due to the texture of all sweet potatoes, they are best roasted or baked whole in their skins or wrapped in foil with butter/oil and seasonings, or sliced and grilled. They shouldn’t be boiled as, like pumpkin, they lose too much texture, volume and, more importantly, flavour. Sweet potato can be white- or orange-fleshed with orange, white, brown or purple skins. The orange-fleshed, brown-skinned sweet potato is known as a ‘yam’ in the US, where sweet potato refers only to the white-fleshed variety. (The true yam is called a ‘tropical yam’ in the US.) Boniato is a type of sweet potato favoured for its fluffier texture once cooked, but lacking the sweetness and flavour of regular sweet potato. Kumara is a cultivar of sweet potato popular in New Zealand and the Pacific region.
Poultry
Poultry refers to domesticated or game birds, but most often chicken. If there is one thing that passionate cooks despise, it is the declining quality of most chicken meat available to the general public. Meat from poorly reared birds lacks flavour and texture and can be more susceptible to harmful bacteria. Of course, mass-produced chicken is cheaper so it’s up to the individual to balance the pros and cons of cost, differences in flavour and texture, and the risk of bacteria, such as E. coli, Salmonella and Campylobacter. 
All poultry is highly susceptible to the growth of harmful (and not so harmful) 
bacteria, from the moment it is killed to the time you ingest it. There is not much you can do about the first phases of meat production, but once at home you can reduce contamination through proper storage and cooking. All poultry should be kept refrigerated at 0–4°C and used within 2 days. If frozen, whole or in pieces, the meat must be kept cold while defrosting. When freezing pieces of chicken, separate each piece with plastic wrap or baking paper. This way if only one piece is needed, it can be removed easily without having to defrost a whole lump of chicken. Also, freeze as flat as possible (not pushed into a ball at the back of the freezer), before piling into one bag. This will ensure that the meat freezes quickly, halting bacteria growth, but also that it defrosts evenly. Never defrost poultry by leaving it out at room temperature. Leave it in the fridge for a day or two until it is completely thawed before cooking. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 512How to cook poultry
Poultry meat can be broken into three categories: red meat, white meat and giblets, each of 
which is treated differently when cooked. 
The ‘red’ meat is the working muscles of the bird, the legs and wings, which produce 
a tough, fibrous, dark meat better suited to long, slow cooking (although nothing like the cooking times required for tough red meat from beef or lamb). Having said that, leg meat with sinew and gristle removed is tender enough to stir-fry, sauté, barbecue or bake to shred for sandwiches. The red meat is considered to have more flavour than the white meat—the source of many arguments over the drumstick of a roasted bird. 
The ‘white’ meat is the breast of the bird. In chicken and turkey, it is white and 
delicate; it must be cooked through, but overcooking will render it dry and tough. The ‘white’ meat of game birds isn’t really considered white meat at all and can be treated like a beef steak, in that it is best served rare to medium rare. (Asking for the breast of game to be cooked well done in a restaurant is frowned upon as much as a well-done steak.) 
Giblets are the heart, liver and gizzards of poultry. Often sautéed, grilled, fried or 
used to make gravy, they can also be steamed or simmered and then ground into a stuffing.
When chicken and turkey—whether whole or as pieces—are cooked perfectly, the juices 
will run clear rather than cloudy-white or pink. 
As chicken and turkey are soft proteins, they prefer gentle rather than fierce cooking 
methods. This allows the proteins to set rather than having them contract too fast and force out valuable juices.
Skin off versus skin on? The skin tends to be the fattiest part of poultry so does 
little for the waistline, which is why it is often recommended to buy skinless chicken breasts. On the other hand, the skin is poultry’s built-in basting mechanism. So, although it takes a little more self-control, I recommend that you buy chicken breast and cook it with the skin on, letting the fat from the skin render, basting the lean white meat beneath, then remove the skin before eating the succulent meat. (This method doesn’t work with poaching and steaming.)
cooking a wHole bird 
Preparation—remove any bits and fat left inside the carcass. Rinse in cold running water 
and then pat dry, inside and out, with a lint-free towel (paper towel, especially cheap ones, can leave paper fibres on the meat). If stuffing the cavity, remember not to pack it in too tight because the mixture expands as it cooks. Cooking times—when roasting whole birds, the breast will cook faster than the legs. (If you want to avoid this, try packing a stuffing between the breast skin and breast or cutting 2–3 lines into the leg muscles to allow heat to penetrate.) And a stuffed bird will take a little longer than one without stuffing because it takes longer for the heat to penetrate to the centre. Allow 2 minutes resting time per kilogram before you carve the beast, and remove the wishbone for easy carving. (Hang the wishbone out to dry for the kids to fight over—the smart child will have figured out that whoever keeps their little finger above their opponent’s will always win.)
Types of poultry
Battery hen is a term for a practice that will one day end. This barbaric method of supplying eggs to meet high demand is appalling, and you need only witness the conditions under which these eggs have been produced to change the way you eat. Once these chickens are deemed useless as productive layers (their lifespan is no more than 18 months), they are The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 513transported, bruised and broken-boned, to a slaughterhouse, where their calcium-deficient, 
toxin-infused, pathetic excuse for a carcass is transformed into food such as pies, loaves, soups, pet food and other chicken by-products that conceal the true state of the battery chickens’ flesh and miserable lives. That’s why you should buy only certified free-range or organic eggs—and here endeth the lesson.
Boiler hen (or stewing hen in the US) is a tough-fleshed hen reserved for stocks, pies, 
broth and—if desperate—picked over for chicken salad or sandwiches. Not for roasting, the hen needs to be cooked or boiled for several hours. The flavour of boiler chicken is strong and the flesh firm, making for an ideal stock.
Broiler hen is a US term for a meat-producing hen (as opposed to an egg-producing one); 
also marketed as ‘fryers’. A broiler’s genetic make-up means it is inappropriate as an egg layer. The broiler is slaughtered at about 6–7 weeks. 
Capon is a surgically neutered rooster, slaughtered at 10–12 weeks. It has a heavier 
carcass than ordinary chicken, yielding lighter, generous amounts of white flesh and is sold particularly for roasting. 
Cockscomb is the often red, fleshy excrescence found on the head of roosters and other 
poultry. It is traditionally served in France as a garnish or a small entrée. Not likely to make a comeback because of their scarcity apart from anything else—you’ll have more fun with a bag of parson’s nose. 
Corn-fed chicken is a label that is occasionally abused. In many cases, it has been 
shown that no more than 50 per cent of the hens’ feed has included corn or maize during the fattening stage. The best corn-fed chickens are also free-range, fed on a diet of corn and corn gluten meal (70 per cent) and soy bean meal (15–20 per cent) with the remainder made up of salts, vitamins and minerals. The resulting chicken is plump, meaty and has a yellow tinge, not just on the skin, but also to the flesh. This yellow pigmentation is derived from the natural yellow colouring in corn called ‘xanthophyll’. 
Duck in most Western countries is still the meat we go out for. Due to a high fat-
to-meat ratio and the expense compared to chicken, duck has struggled to adorn domestic kitchen tables. Duck is processed from 6–15 weeks of age, depending on the breed. Most duck available to the public is the Pekin or Peking duck (this is the name of the breed as well as the famous dish). For a stronger game flavour, try to source the big-scented Muscovy duck. Duck’s web (the membrane between its webbed toes) is up there with chicken feet and cockscomb when it comes to challenging ingredients.
Free-range chicken is a marketing term that should be broken into two groups for the 
consumer. For a chicken to be free-range, at least half its life must be spent outside. ‘Traditional free-range’ requires greater access to outside living, fewer chickens in the space and a higher minimum age at slaughter. Then there is ‘free-range total freedom’: similar to traditional but with no restrictions to daytime open-air living. Be rightfully suspicious of labels such as ‘farm fresh’ and ‘country fresh’; these do not guarantee free-range conditions. 
Game bird is generally what you enjoy on your travels through Europe, and is not quite 
the same elsewhere. These are wild birds such as grouse, woodcock, partridge, guinea fowl, snipe and pheasant. Some species, especially quail and pheasant, are now being farmed. When buying quality game birds, look for these points: the beak should break easily, the breast plumage ought to be soft and the breast plump, and the quill feathers (those close to the body) should be pointed, not rounded. Most game birds are hung before cooking to mature and tenderise the meat and develop flavour. Hanging is a matter of taste, however, as some people find that hung or ‘high’ meat has an overly strong gamey smell and flavour. Game meat sold in The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 514supermarkets usually has a milder flavour. Quail are too small and gain nothing from hanging, 
so consume immediately. When cooking game birds, follow a good recipe. Keep ‘medium-rare’ in mind and you’re off to a good start: The lean meat from game birds (including flightless birds such as emus and ostrich) can be dry and nasty if overcooked. 
Goose usually only appears, if ever, at the Christmas table alongside many other meats. 
Geese are processed at about 20 weeks old and usually only two or three times a year (young geese or gosling are favoured over mature birds as their meat is more tender). The flavour is similar to duck, although wild geese are gamier. Roasting goose is similar to cooking duck, as geese also store plenty of fat under the skin. Season the goose inside and out with sea salt and pepper. Roast at 210°C for 20 minutes, reduce the heat to 180°C and cook for a further 30 minutes per kilogram or 45 minutes per kilo if stuffed. Drain the fat every 20 minutes. When cooled, you can store the fat in the fridge for future use in roasts or casseroles.
Grain-fed chicken is fed on a blend of wheat, corn and sometimes barley, which makes up 
about 70 per cent of its feed. The other 30 per cent is made up of mainly protein, such as soy bean or occasionally canola or fish meal, as well as vitamins and minerals.
Male chicken refers to one of the thousands of millions of those cute, fluffy new 
chickens that were unfortunate enough to be hatched at a commercial egg farm. No sentiment is wasted on these ‘useless’ animals which are either ground up while still alive for fertiliser, gassed or suffocated in bags or containers. This information may have little to do with your cooking, but it will give you something to mull over next time you order sunny-side-up.
Poussin is a chicken that is slaughtered at 21–28 days old. These young chickens are 
usually reserved for grilling or roasting and can be served as an individual portion. Spatchcock is another word for poussin that can also describe a method in which it is cooked—butterflied and grilled—which is both quick and easy.
Pullet is a female chicken under 12 months old. (After that she becomes known as a 
hen.)
Turkey, like Santa Claus, is recognised only once a year in many countries, with the 
exception of the US. Turkey is processed from 4 weeks–10 months old. If cooked properly, turkey yields succulent, tasty white meat, just as good hot as it is cold. The problem lies in the fact that unlike, say, roast lamb, that gets a workout several times a year, turkey is rarely cooked, and the inexperienced cook is scared into overcooking it, thereby rendering the meat drier than a salted pretzel. Turkey, like chicken, prefers gentle cooking and its juices will run clear when cooked. Here’s a very rough guide to times for the first-time turkey roaster: try 30–35 minutes per kg (no stuffing) or 40–45 minutes per kg (with stuffing) at 170°C. See How to Cook Poultry and Cooking a Whole Bird.
Young roaster is a US term for a broiler-style chicken, generally older and heavier 
than a broiler, slaughtered at around 10 weeks. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 515Quinces
Tips:
* Quinces, although related to the apple family, aren’t eaten like apples. Quinces benefit 
from long slow cooking methods which develop the deep red colour that they are known for.
* Quinces sold in fruit shops will not ripen once home. If the fruit is blemished or soft 
in spots, it indicates it is beginning to rot and should be discarded.
* Look for bright yellow fruit with small patches of soft brown ‘down’ over the skin—this 
down washes off easily. Slightly under-ripe fruit is great to use in quince paste.
* Perfectly ripe fruit has a delicious aroma akin to those little jars of boiled mixed 
lollies. This is when they are at their peak for roasting, baking or stewing.
* Quinces are often cooked and mixed with apples or pears in pie recipes or as an 
accompaniment for roast pork.
Rice
Rice is a member of the grass family and lives a short life of 3–7 months. The three main 
categories of rice are: indica, javanica and japonica. Different varieties have different levels of the two starches found in rice and this affects how they cook: the starch ‘amylose’ makes the rice grains separate and fluffy, while ‘amylopectin’ gives the grains a sticky consistency. 
Indica or long-grain rice is a slender rice that is 4–5 times longer than its width. 
It is grown in countries with a warm climate such as India, Thailand, Vietnam, Pakistan, Australia, Brazil and southern USA. Once cooked, long-grain rice stays separated and fluffy, making it the perfect accompaniment to curries or sauce-based dishes. 
Javanica is a plump but not round grain of rice 2–3 times longer than its width. It 
has glutinous properties like short-grain rice and is only grown in Indonesia. When cooked, medium-grain rice is more moist and tender than long-grain. Japonica or short-grain rice has a rounded grain that tends to remain sticky once cooked. It is grown in cold-climate countries such as Japan, Korea and northern China.
All rice should be stored in a dry place, below 18°C. Red, brown and black rice (see 
below) should be consumed within 6 months of purchase. White rice has a longer storage time.
How To cook rice
The various types of rice behave differently when cooked, mainly because of variations in 
their ratio of the starches amylose and amylopectin. There are many methods to cooking rice and, depending on the type, the times can vary by up to 10 minutes. Very generally speaking, rice takes about 20 minutes to cook. 
Some recommend that white rice be washed in a small amount of cold water, then rinsed 
and swirled (but not stirred with a hand or implement as this can break the grains) until the water runs clear. This removes excess rice starch, ensuring the rice is not overly starchy or sticky. Others say that washing is unnecessary.
Opinion is similarly divided about soaking rice: some people swear by it, others 
abhor the practice. In general, glutinous (short- and medium-grain) rice does benefit from soaking; long-grain rice does not (it will reduce the cooking time slightly but gives it the potential to become soggy).
There is no exact measure of what proportion of water to rice is best, as rice will The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 516absorb water at different rates depending on its type and age (young rice still has a 
moisture content so needs less water). One method is the ‘index finger’ gauge, where you add water to cover the rice to the height of the first knuckle of your index finger with the fingertip touching the rice. My advice is to cook rice often until you find a method and a measure that is foolproof for you.
Tips for cooking rice:
* Adding a small amount of ghee to the rice before cooking can help keep the grains 
separate: a method used by some Indian cooks that also adds a bit of flavour. 
* Whether you salt rice or not is optional. Some say it is best left unseasoned so the 
focus is cast onto the food it is served with.
* All rice should be left to stand for 10–20 minutes after cooking. It should be stirred 
occasionally while standing. 
* Rice cookers are a brilliant way to cook rice, but need to be cared for. Never use metal 
implements when removing the rice, and always make sure the base of the bowl is dry before 
placing it on the element.
* Cooking rice in the microwave takes about 12 minutes (give or take 1–2 minutes depending 
on the type of rice.)
* For the stovetop method, rinse the rice in water to remove excess starch. For every cup 
of rice, add 1 ½ cups water. Bring the rice to the boil, uncovered, on a high–medium heat. 
Once it is boiling, turn the heat down to low. Place the lid on the pot, keeping the lid tilted to let steam escape. Simmer gently for another 15 minutes. Let stand for 10 minutes. Fluff up rice before serving. 
* Steamed rice is a method employed by few outside the Thai community. It takes time and 
patience, which Western cooks are often short of. The rice should be soaked for 3 hours (long-grain jasmine) or overnight (short-grain) then rinsed and drained. For long-grain rice, add boiling water to only just cover the rice. Place in a steamer basket, cover, and cook over medium heat for 30–60 minutes depending on quantity. For short-grain sticky rice, place directly in a mound in the steamer (only a few grains will drop through so there’s no need to use a plate) then cover and cook for approximately 25 minutes. Check the centre of this mound to ensure the rice is cooked through, then cover with a cloth to prevent it drying out. 
problem solving
* Burnt rice? Burning can leave a scorched smell through the cooked rice. Take a crust of 
bread and place it on top of the rice. Depending on the extent of the burning, this can 
absorb most, if not all, of the aroma.
Types of rice
Arborio rice is a commonly available medium-grain rice used for making risotto. This grain 
has a higher than normal amount of soluble starch and it needs to be cooked slowly and stirred continuously to expose the starch that gives risotto its tell-tale creaminess. Its cooking time is about 18–20 minutes. See also Risotto rice, below.
Baldo rice is Italian-grown and used in risotto, desserts, stuffings, soups and salads. 
Considered to be the ‘daughter’ of arborio rice, baldo rice is also popular in other Mediterranean dishes. If unavailable, replace with arborio.
Basmati rice, a quality rice with an excellent flavour, is grown in India. It has long The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 517grains which stay separate, fluffy and somewhat dry once cooked. When cooked, it swells and 
lengthens to 2–3 times its raw size. White basmati rice takes less water and less time to cook than ordinary long-grain rice: try using equal quantities of rice to water. Unhulled or brown basmati has even more flavour and takes longer to cook.
Bhutanese red rice hails from the small Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan. This is a short-
grain red rice that cooks in 20 minutes and finishes with a nutty, earthy flavour and a red russet colour. If unavailable from delis or Asian grocers, substitute with Christmas rice (or as a last resort, another short-grain rice).
Black glutinous rice is also known as ‘black sticky rice’ or ‘black forbidden rice’. 
It has a much richer flavour than white sticky rice and can be either medium- or long-grain. Once cooked, black rice is a deep, dark purple with a nutty flavour and a wholegrain texture. Because of its striking appearance, it is often used for festive desserts, steamed in banana leaves or in salads. Before cooking (particularly if you plan to steam the rice), soak in water overnight; this allows the rice to absorb water, swell and then cook in less time. 
Black japonica rice is a hybrid of a red medium-grain and a black short-grain japonica 
type of rice. It is often sold unhulled and therefore cooks like a brown rice (about 45 minutes). 
Broken rice is the damaged white rice which is separated from the intact grain at the 
production stage, and is used in other areas such as animal feed, beer brewing or flour processing. 
Brown rice has a chewier texture and nuttier flavour, is a natural source of bran, and 
is high in fibre and vitamin B. The difference between brown and white rice is that brown has had only the hull or husk removed, leaving the bran intact. This long-grain rice takes longer to cook than white rice (about 40–45 minutes). 
Calrose rice is also known as sushi rice. It is quite round and short and belongs to 
the japonica group.
Carolina rice is a long-grain rice originally grown in that part of America at the end 
of the 17th century. It is now grown throughout the US.
Christmas rice is a short-grain red rice. When cooked, it has a sticky, dense character 
and a musky aroma.
Converted rice is also known as ‘parboiled rice’. In fact, it hasn’t been parboiled but 
rather soaked, steamed and dried before being husked or hulled. It retains more nutrients than white rice and, due to reduced surface starch, stays well separated after being cooked. It cooks perfectly in approximately 20 minutes. 
Dirty rice is a recipe rather than a type of rice. It is white rice cooked with minced 
chicken livers, gizzards, onions and seasonings, giving it its ‘dirty’ appearance. This Cajun specialty is far more tasty than it sounds.
Fermented rice is used in Asian desserts and in savoury dishes where its sweetness can 
counterbalance a salty or sour dish. This sweet rice has a small alcohol content and is available in most Asian grocers. 
Flattened rice (or rice flakes) is used in desserts or batters. It sometimes has a 
slight green colouring, produced by the introduction of pandanus.
Glutinous rice, despite its name, contains no gluten. Rather, the name describes the 
sticky nature of the rice once cooked. This short-grain rice is used in sushi and Asian desserts. It may also be referred to as ‘sticky rice’, ‘sweet rice’ or ‘Chinese sweet rice’ (again, this is about the way it is used rather than its content; there is no sugar in the grain), as well as ‘botan rice’, ‘Japanese rice’, ‘mochi rice’, ‘pearl rice’, ‘sushi rice’ and ‘waxy rice’.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 518Himalayan red rice is a long-grain rice which can be substituted for brown rice—the 
only difference is the colour of the husk.
Instant rice, or ‘precooked rice’ as it is sometimes called, is not always readily 
available, is more expensive and, with its mushy texture and insipid flavour, is less 
appealing than ordinary rice. It has been precooked and dehydrated and is available white or brown, taking 5 and 10 minutes respectively to cook. Instant rice might help if you’re in a hurry but considering normal rice takes only 15–20 minutes to cook, why bother with an inferior product? If a recipe calls for precooked rice, be clear whether this means instant rice or rice that has been boiled or steamed by you earlier.
Jasmine rice has a perfume more like pandanus than jasmine flowers; the name in fact 
refers to the pearl-like sheen of the grain. This long-grain aromatic rice is favoured in Thailand and has become popular worldwide. Jasmine takes less water and less time to cook than normal long-grain rice: Try using equal quantities of rice to water. Leftover cold jasmine rice makes excellent fried rice. It is also known as ‘hom mali rice’ or simply ‘fragrant rice’.
Kalijira rice (also known as ‘baby basmati rice’) is a fast-cooking, short-grain rice 
favoured in desserts. Kalijira rice is produced in Bangladesh.
Patna rice is a long-grain rice originally from the region Bihar (the capital of which 
is Patna) in India. The name now describes a generic, long-grain white rice that is grown the world over. 
Pearl rice is another name for short-grain rice (and is different from ‘pearled rice’ 
which simply refers to white rice in general).
Pecan rice or wild pecan rice is a new hybrid similar to popcorn rice and basmati. It 
has a long grain with a chewy texture and nutty flavour and aroma.
Popcorn rice is a new hybrid similar to, but cheaper than, basmati. When cooked, it 
has the aroma of—what else?—popcorn. Available in white and brown, it is also known as ‘American basmati’, ‘della rice’ and ‘gourmet rice’.
Popped rice is also known as ‘poona rice’, available in Indian produce stores and is 
used in festive desserts and sweetmeats.
Risotto rice is, as the name suggests, used specifically for making risotto. It is a 
medium-grain rice with a characteristic white dot in the centre of the grain. There are several varieties, each claiming to produce the best risotto, including carnaroli, vialone nano (or simply nano), arborio, baldo, Padano and Roma. Washing risotto rice is a big no-no. The more starches left with the grain, the creamier the risotto. Some brands claim that no stirring is required, thus freeing you from the stove for 15–20 minutes, but old-school risotto lovers will tell you that the best risotto is one that has been worked constantly with a wooden spoon, so as to have the rice grains trounce one another, rendering maximum starch which in turn produces the creamy texture. Risotto rice is sometimes called ‘Piedmont rice’.
Rough rice or paddy rice is the unhulled kernel, which is inedible until it is 
processed for cooking or packaging.
Spanish rice can be medium- or long-grain. Valencia produces a medium- to short-grain 
style that is favoured for paella (long-grain rice is never used for paella), and another paella rice is granza rice. Andalucia produces a long-grain rice perfect for pilaff. For rice dishes of Spain, the rice is never washed; the starch too valuable to run down the sink. 
White rice is also known as ‘polished rice’, ‘pearled rice’ (pearled as in polished) or 
‘fully milled rice’, due to it being stripped of its husk and bran layers.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 519Wild rice is also known as ‘Indian rice’. You’ve heard it before, now hear it again—
wild rice is not a rice at all but a grass seed (a trifle confusing, as essentially rice 
is a grass seed too). It takes longer to cook than white rice, has more nutrients and a nutty flavour and chewy texture that suits poultry, game meats and vegetable dishes. Rinse then cook for 40–50 minutes, after which time most of the grains will have split open or ‘blossomed’ but still retain a bite. 
Salt
Love it or hate it, salt is essential to our diets. As our bodies cannot produce salts for themselves, they rely on us to find it. Then it becomes an issue of what type and how much we should feed our bodies. Some home cooks, made paranoid by the propaganda of ‘too much salt causes high blood pressure and heart attacks’ and believing that our salt requirements can be met with Vegemite on toast for breakfast, omit salt from all cooking, presenting the family with bland meals. Meals in restaurants often taste significantly better than those cooked at home. Other than the fact that food cooked by anyone other than yourself seems to taste better anyway, the reason for this could be as simple as the professional cook’s respect for salt’s place in food. Basically, good quality salt enhances the natural flavour of food. You should add salt not once but several times in small amounts, tasting and testing in between each addition.
As well as standard table and cooking salts, many fancy salts are now on the market. 
These can be better for you but unfortunately often carry heavy price tags, so rarely grace the home kitchen. I recommend the more affordable and still excellent quality salt flakes for the home cook. 
Tips for using salT:
* Add small amounts of salt several times, stirring and tasting between each addition. 
* Before reaching for the salt shaker on the table, whether at home or in a restaurant, 
taste the food! Chances are, the cook has added just the right amount. High on the list of 
what chefs hate is the customer who dowses the meal in salt and pepper before trying even one mouthful. (Equally annoying to the customer is the waiter with the baseball-bat-sized pepper grinder offering you pepper before you’ve tasted your meal—next time ask them to leave the grinder with you until you’ve tried your food.) 
problem solving
* Added too much salt? Act immediately! Remove everything you dropped in, even if it means 
scooping out some of the other ingredients (they can always be replaced). Stir the mixture 
well. Or add a peeled potato or two and cook gently until the potatoes have absorbed most of the salt. Gently remove and discard the potato.
* Still too salty and you can’t bring yourself to throw it out? Cool down completely then 
freeze in smaller portions. Use one of these frozen salt blocks the next time you prepare the same dish by adding it (defrosted overnight) to the new batch. 
* Need to eat less salt? First, note that salt (especially iodised salt) is important to 
our natural diet and it’s not recommended to omit it completely. If you need to reduce your salt intake for medical reasons: 
—use a salt that is low in sodium—replace salt with seaweed granulesThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 520—use salt-reduced products
—check product labels for key words—sodium, salt, soy sauce, brine, corned, pickled, cured and smoked—as these can indicate excess salt—make your own stocks instead of using packaged cubes or Tetra packs.
Types of salT
Black salt is a true misnomer if ever there was one, as this is a grey/pink salt, mined 
from the Ganges plains in central India. Ask for black salt in Indian food stores. Its characteristic smoky flavour and pungent smell means you cannot make a true Indian chaat (a type of salad) without it. 
Celtic sea salt is a hand-farmed salt from the marshlands of Brittany. (Like any farmed 
product, a good crop depends on the weather.) Natural Celtic sea salt is sold as fine white crystals or larger grey crystals. The unwashed, almost dirty, appearance of this salt ensures that it retains all its natural goodness. 
Cooking salt is slightly coarser than table salt, and is often made up of several 
salts. It is used in bulk in commercial kitchens. This is the best salt to season the water for cooking pasta, rather than wasting your good sea salt or salt flakes. 
Fleur de sel translates as ‘flower of salt’. It is hand-harvested like Celtic sea salt, 
and used as a finishing salt, in small quantities. Fleur de sel is produced from the salt crust on top of the salt pond, so it is the least salty and purest part of the saline. It is taken from a single day’s harvest. See also Sel gris.
Hawaiian black lava salt is a sea salt that is evaporated with purified black lava rock, 
then mixed with activated charcoal for its colour and apparent detoxifying effects. Although hard to find, it can be ordered over the internet.
Hawaiian red clay salt or red alae salt is a sea salt harvested in ponds, with baked 
Hawaiian clay added after it is dried. It can be ordered over the internet.
Iodised salt has a small amount of potassium iodide added to help prevent goitre, a 
thyroid condition. As little as 40 mg of potassium iodide is added per kilogram of near pure sodium chloride. 
Korean bamboo salt or red bamboo salt (biosalt) is made from sun-dried salt stuffed 
into bamboo hollows and sealed with yellow clay. It is then baked 9 times, for 8 hours each time. After each baking period, the bamboo stub is replaced. The resultant salt is red in colour, sweet-flavoured, and very salty, and its odour may not be appealing. High in minerals, bamboo salt is favoured in medicine, cosmetics and cleaning, and as a finishing salt in cooking. 
Kosher salt, because it is. Kosher salt can be an overly refined salt with little 
nutrient value, sourced, like table salt from land deposits, or Kosher sea salt, a crystal salt with no additives, ideal for pickling meats because of its larger crystal that absorbs moisture. Kosher sea salt is best in a salt grinder if it is to be used as a table salt.
Malian red clay salt or Saharan salt is valued in Africa (and by a few New York chefs, 
hell-bent on unearthing another trendy salt to adorn their menu). It is sourced from salt mines just south of the Sahara in Mali, Africa.
Murray River salt harvested from the underground brines of the Murray–Darling Basin in 
Victoria acts not only as a top-end flake salt for restaurants and the domestic market, but more importantly is one answer to controlling the ever-increasing salinity problem of that area. The earthy, light pink salt is favoured by chefs and gourmet cooks Australia-wide.
Pink Peruvian lake salt is a form of sea salt harvested from wells lined with rose 
quartz. The pink colouring comes from the tiny pieces of rose quartz present in the salts. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 521The Incas and Mayans have used this salt for its powerful spiritual and healing properties. 
You can eat it at a top New York restaurant, then contemplate the spiritual healing the salt has brought you as you pay for the meal. If money isn’t an issue, buy a quarter of a pound of the stuff and bathe in it. 
Rock salt is procured from halite, a mineral that was once a sea salt but is now buried 
underground, sometimes in very large deposits. The rock salt is mined and ground into coarse chunks. Further refining to different-sized grains produces cooking salt or table salt. The coarse rock crystals can be used in a salt mill or dropped straight into water for cooking pasta. They are also used when curing meats like salmon (gravlax) or preserving lemons and in baking where large cuts of meat or whole fish are coated in a thick slurry of salt mixed with a little water or egg white.
Saltpetre or potassium nitrate is classed as a salt and preserving agent. A pinch of 
saltpetre added to a duck liver parfait mixture before it is cooked keeps it pink on the inside long after it has cooled.
Salt spray is a pure form of seawater used as a seasoning and sold in pump spray 
bottles. On the rare occasion I’ve used salt spray, I have found its simplicity appealing, although it is similar to fish sauce, in that it requires delicate handling to avoid oversalting. Use a ratio of 2 sprays = 1 pinch of regular salt.
Sea salt and rock salt are the preferred salts for everyday cooking. Sea salt has a 
high mineral content and a clean salty flavour, and is sold as coarse crystals, flakes or granules. In a bygone era, it was referred to as ‘bay salt’. Maldon sea salt is a globally recognised salt-flake brand, which has spawned the trend for other countries to cash in on this abundant mineral. 
Sel gris is from the same farmers who bring you Celtic sea salt and fleur de sel. 
However, sel gris is harvested throughout an entire season (for every 150 kg sel gris produced, only about 10 kg fleur de sel is harvested). 
Smoked salt can lend a little of its smoky character to a casserole or steak. Styles 
available include hickory-smoked sea salt, Mediterranean oak-smoked sea salt, and the elusive and extremely expensive smoked Danish salt. 
Table salt is the most refined product of rock salt. It contains anti-caking agents such 
as calcium silicate added (at less than 0.5 per cent) to ensure that it flows freely in any weather condition, especially in the tropics where humidity plays havoc with dry food. Table salt is a very fine-grained, harsh-tasting salt. 
SauceS
Ah, sauces! Those magical liquids that can cover a cook’s feeble mistakes or, at best, lift the main ingredient to new heights. For some, meat without sauce is like the moon without darkness; while for others, making a sauce is an arduous task. For these people, I say widen your view of what a sauce is—think of bolognaise or any stew or casserole.
Butter sauces vary from the rich beurre blanc to a simple herb or flavoured butter which 
becomes a sauce as it melts over the meat or dish. Add butter to pan juices with wine or stock to help thicken the sauce. The trick is to remove the pan from the heat then add small cubes of butter, whisking or stirring until it has melted. Do not boil once the butter has been incorporated as it will split. Flavoured butters can be rolled first in plastic wrap, then in foil to hold their shape, then refrigerated until solid. When hard, cut into rounds and freeze in a plastic bag for later use. 
The most common egg-based sauces are emulsion sauces, made up of eggs (or more often just The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 522egg yolks) combined slowly with a fat, either oil or butter; mayonnaise and hollandaise with 
its ten or so derivatives are probably the best known. Sabayon can be either sweet or savoury and consists of eggs or egg yolks combined with a liquid (stock, juice or alcohol), then whisked until light or ribbon stage. It is cooked in the top of a double boiler, and great care must be taken not to overcook or scramble the egg. Sabayon can be the beginning of a hollandaise sauce or can be used as a sauce on its own, as in zabaglione, a sweetened sabayon served with sponge biscuits. Another common egg-based sauce is crème anglaise or English custard, a sweetened egg yolk mixture cooked with cream then gently heated to thicken (again with great care as boiling the sauce can lead to separation or curdling). Cold, hard egg sauces such as sauce Gribiche, sauce Vincent, Cambridge sauce and sauce Sardalaise are often served with fish, shellfish, tongue or, if you’re in the mood and who isn’t, calf’s head. 
Purees, whether from fruit, nuts or vegetables, make a good alternative to other more 
time-consuming sauces. Cook the ingredients then thicken with a béchamel (white) sauce, cream, butter, flour (or other starch) or by reducing to enhance the quality of this style of sauce. 
See recipes in Dressings, Sauces and Butters.
How to tH icken a Sauce 
Deglaze the pan but don’t let the liquid evaporate entirely. Now thicken the sauce by reducing it (continue to cook the sauce over high heat until much of it evaporates and the remaining liquid is intensified in flavour) or by adding another ingredient, such as butter, cream, blue cheese, cornflour, arrowroot or potato or rice flour (mixed first with a little cold water) and cooking gently to combine. A beurre manié (2 parts soft butter mixed with 1 part flour) is another thickening option but I don’t favour it as the flour particles need time to cook out and the method doesn’t provide this extra time. (The method is to add a beurre manié to the boiling liquid, bring it back to the boil, then turn off the heat source. This leaves the sauce with a grainy texture.) 
ProBlem Solving
* Burnt sauce? Try to disguise it by adding a strong flavour profile, such as Vegemite, 
peanut butter, fruit juice, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce or chilli sauce. Or throw the 
sauce away and serve the meal with a wedge of lemon instead. 
* Lumpy sauce or gravy? Strain the sauce through a sieve. To avoid lumpy sauce in future, 
use a sauce whisk (metal or plastic) as you begin to bring the sauce together, then use a wooden spoon while the sauce simmers. 
* Added too much salt? The only answer is to sacrifice the few to save the many—ladle out 
the drop zone, including sauce, then bulk out the remaining sauce with stock, cream or wine. Or, if you’ve mixed in the salt already, pour off two-thirds of it (freeze this in an ice tray and use later as instant salt cubes to add flavour to future sauces), then bulk out the remaining sauce with stock, cream or wine.
* Curdled or split/separated dressing or sauce? Remember Rule No. 1: follow the recipe. 
If a method states ‘add slowly’, then snail’s pace is fast enough. There is no rushing the first stage of making a mayonnaise or hollandaise (or any derivative of these emulsion-type sauces). Get it right the first time and spare yourself the agony of repairing it. If an emulsion sauce is looking a bit thin, start adding small amounts of very hot water—this will aid in ‘cooking’ the egg within the sauce, helping to bring it back. Then slowly add the oil again. If the sauce has separated, start again, using 1 fresh egg yolk at room temperature. This time add the separated sauce to the egg instead of oil. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 523Seafood
Abalone is available fresh, tinned, frozen and dried, each requiring different treatment. To 
shuck fresh abalone from the shell, cut the connector muscle then pry out the flesh. Trim and discard the viscera (soft organs), remove the dark skin from the foot and scrub the meat to remove the black coating. The cleaned abalone can now be cut into thick steaks against the grain of the meat, then tenderised. (Note that pounding fresh abalone flesh to within an inch of disintegration is frowned upon by Asian cooks, who take immense pride in serving this expensive product; one does not need to treat abalone like octopus to guarantee tenderness.) Fresh abalone need only be sliced very thinly and cooked very quickly, whether poached (steamboat style) or stir-fried. In a restaurant, fresh abalone should be presented to you in the shell, with the wriggling flesh exposed, before being taken away and cooked. Frozen abalone is not a substitute for the fresh product. It is better suited to soups or stewed in rich sauces and is the least exciting of the abalone styles available. Dried abalone resembles a rock, both in appearance and in texture, but the drying process, considered an art form in Japan, actually enhances the flavour. Experienced Chinese chefs cook dried abalone whole, in a sauce that is considered just as important as the abalone itself. The recipe is a well-kept secret, but involves a rich stock of chicken, pork and ham, and up to 13 hours of slow cooking. Abalone is also known as ‘paua’ in New Zealand.
Bacalao is dried salted cod, popular in Italy, Spain and France. The best bacalao is 
said to come from Norway as it is less salty and softer. To prepare bacalao for cooking, soak for 2–3 days in cold water, changing the water 2–3 times a day. It can now be served with rice, and cooked in casseroles, stews and risottos, among many other dishes—the Portuguese claim more than 300 uses for this salty fish. Baccalà is one of the many alternative spellings.
Crab should be bought either alive or precooked. When buying live, look for a creature 
that has a bit of kick in it. Crabs are usually tied with twine to prevent them from latching onto stray fingers. When buying precooked crustaceans, the outer shell should be bright orange to red in colour, free from any disagreeable odours, with white, firm flesh on the inside. Soft, pasty flesh indicates an animal that was stressed before being cooked. As a general guide: 450 g crab in the shell will yield 1 cup flaked crab meat.
How to cook live crab
The RSPCA recommends crabs be placed in the freezer for 4–5 hours before cooking. 
Alternatively, they can be drowned in a tub of water (although this takes 6–8 hours). If cooked alive, crabs will shed their limbs. Bring sea water or salted water (1 litre water to 
½ cup rock salt) to a vigorous boil, then add the crab and cook for about 8 minutes for 
every 500 g. The shell will turn a bright orange when the crab is cooked. Lift out of the water and place in a tub of chilled water or under cold running water, then refrigerate. This fully cooked crab is now ready to be picked over. If you plan to sauté the crab, it should merely be blanched in boiling water first: use the method above but remove from the water and cool after 5 minutes. 
Crab stick is also known as ‘sea legs’ or ‘surimi’. There’s not even a whiff of crab in a 
crab stick. It is made from white fish, usually Alaskan pollock (also used to make other fake seafood products such as imitation scallops or prawns or fish patties). Real Californian rolls should be made with the leg meat of crab, kept whole, not thin strips of this faux crab.
Crayfish are a freshwater crustacean (although usage of the word varies—see Rock 
lobster). Crayfish species are abundant in North America and Australasia (100 or so species The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 524in Australia and 250 in North America) but less common in most other parts of the world. 
Crayfish are generally much smaller than rock lobsters, with many species considered too small to eat. The Tasmanian crayfish (endangered) is the largest in the world, followed by the Murray River crayfish (hard to find). Yabbies, redclaw and marron are three well-known crayfish in Australia. Marron is the third largest freshwater crayfish in the world, and is indigenous to Western Australia. Its meat is considered to be the finest of all crayfish. About 31 per cent of its total body weight is meat (compared to 15–20 per cent for yabbies). Redclaw, a native of Queensland, is best eaten in that region, as it does not travel well. The American crawfish is a smaller version of the Australian yabby.
All of the species of crayfish have many edible parts: the tail, the claws, the 
‘mustard’ and the ‘coral’, and the shell can also be used to flavour soups and sauces. The tail and claws represent about 40 per cent of total body weight. The ‘mustard’ is the orange-brown liver found in the carapace (main shell) which connoisseurs enjoy spread over the tail meat. The ‘coral’ is the developing egg sac found in the carapace of the female, which can be eaten on its own or whisked into a sauce.
Crayfish and lobster should be bought either alive or precooked, not dead and raw. When 
buying them live, look for a lively creature: The tail should tuck underneath and not hang down when the crustacean is picked up. When buying precooked crustaceans, all of the outer shell should be bright orange to red in colour, free from any disagreeable odours, with firm white flesh on the inside. Soft, pasty flesh indicates an animal that was stressed before being cooked.
How to cook live crayfisH
Place in the freezer for 2–3 hours to avoid stressing the animals by cooking them while 
still alive. Drop into boiling salted water until they have turned a bright orange/red. Remove and refresh in iced water. 
Jellyfish is often sold dried and salted. It is favoured for its crunchy texture rather 
than flavour. Soak for 24 hours, changing the water several times, then drop into boiling water for 15–20 seconds. I suggest shredding finely and using in a salad. 
Marinara mix or seafood extender might be convenient but resembles cat food in its 
quality. This pre-mixed array of poor quality seafood will never be touched by anyone who values the succulence of fresh seafood. Instead, try making your own as a special occasion treat: simply combine a selection of fresh seafood and fish pieces.
Mussels, like all shellfish, are at their best when still alive and in their shell. 
Before buying, check whether they’re alive by tapping the shell, which will then tightly close. Any with gaping shells are dead, and should not be purchased. The ‘beard’ of a mussel is actually the byssal threads, produced by glands near the foot area, which allow the mussel to cling to rocks or hard surfaces in the water. 
How to de-beard a mussel
To remove the beard, yank it firmly towards the hinge of the mussel rather than the opening 
end. (Pulling towards the opening will kill the mussel and can rip out some of the inner flesh.) 
Octopus—the best tip for cooking octopus is to tenderise the flesh before cooking. 
Ideally this is done by beating over a rock in the Greek Islands. Alternatively, precook by blanching in water, tenderise with a meat mallet, or rub with daikon for its tenderising properties. Some people are allergic to the handling of sea creatures and so food-handling The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 525gloves are recom mended. Buy tentacles or a whole baby octopus, and if you don’t fancy 
cleaning the guts out at home, buy them pre-cleaned. They should be firm to touch and sweet to smell, with no slimy residue or wafts of ammonia.
Oysters—all shellfish should be bought when still alive and in their shell, but this 
is particularly important nectar: if you buy oysters that have already been shucked, they should be plump, with a natural creamy colour and a clear liquid.
Prawns are usually known as shrimp in the US (although sometimes the word ‘prawns’ can 
be used to denote large, extra-large and jumbo prawns), but elsewhere ‘shrimp’ refers to very small, peeled prawns, as in the classic retro dish, shrimp cocktail— usually frozen or 
in brine or those labelled for the US export market. They are also sometimes called ‘jumbo shrimp’ or ‘shrimp scampi’ in the US. The many species of prawns available worldwide ensure varied flavours, but wherever you are, the methods for buying and handling prawns are the same.
Uncooked prawns are green-grey and can be purchased with the shell on or as cutlets 
(shell off). I advise you to buy whole green prawns, but if you do buy pre-cooked, they should be plump and bright orange, with no signs of having been defrosted. (Frozen cooked prawns can be watery, rubbery or flavourless when defrosted.) As a general rule: 325 g cooked prawns in the shell will yield 1 cup of prawn meat.
PreParing and de-veining Prawns 
Most recipes suggest de-veining prawns (removing their digestive sac, also known as the sand 
vein) either before or after cooking, as it is too unsightly or gritty for many people. However, it is edible, and some don’t mind it. Occasionally, a batch of prawns can have a very clean vein, and usually the veins of small prawns or shrimp are too small to be removed and contain little if any digestive matter. Sometimes a mass of green, beige or orange goop covers the digestive sac from head to tail, mostly at the head end. This is the prawn ovary, the different colours representing the different stages of the ovary, which turns orange or cream once cooked. (But now you know what it is, will you ever eat it again?) While prawns can be peeled and de-veined either before or after cooking, before cooking is probably better if they are to be served whole, after cooking if they are to be presented in a salad. 
How to cook wH ole raw Prawns 
Bring seawater or salted water (1 litre water to 
½ cup rock salt) to a vigorous boil, then 
add the prawns and cook until they curl and turn a bright orange. (Another sign they are 
cooked is when they float on the surface.) Lift out the prawns and drop into iced water. Do not reheat or re-cook pre-cooked prawns.
How to de-vein wH ole green P rawns
Use a skewer or a toothpick to pierce the meat at the top of the head end, just below where 
the vein runs. Gently lift and jiggle the skewer, and as you lift the vein should begin to release itself from the body of meat. 
OR 
Run a small knife blade along the back of the prawn, enough to pierce the flesh and scrape out the vein. This method is great if the prawns are to be butterflied for quick cooking and presentation.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 526Ray and skate are similar fish in appearance, although ray have long wire-like tails, 
while skate are larger and have a shorter, stumpier tail. None of this stops the names being 
used interchangeably. The wings of both are the only edible part. They are sold with or without skin (as it can be hard to remove, I suggest you buy skinless). Beware of ray and skate wings being passed off as scallops in cheap restaurants after being cut into disks of the same shape—the taste isn’t dissimilar but the texture can be stringy. 
Rock lobster and crayfish are names that are continually interchanged, and shouldn’t be. 
Australian rock lobsters (in Europe called ‘spiny lobster’, ‘lobster’ or ‘European lobster’) do not have front claws; while the American lobster is prized for its large front claws; and the Norwegian lobster, while smaller, is also adorned with front claws. Flat lobsters are also known as ‘shovel-nosed lobsters’, ‘butterfly crays’ and ‘slipper lobsters’. Two common Australian species are the Balmain bug and the Moreton Bay bug. 
Scallops are rarely sold live, as they must be gutted as well as shucked, leaving 
only the white abductor muscle and the roe (the orange, pink or light tan-coloured flesh attached to the meat). Shucked scallops should be plump, with no sign of damage to the roe. Interestingly, scallops are hermaphrodites—that is, a single scallop has both male and female organs, and the roe or gonad takes on an orange, pink or purple colour (female ovary) or white to pale tan colour (male testis) at different times.
Scallops should be served medium-rare—in other words, barely cooked on the inside, for 
the best flavour and to retain succulence. Cook them quickly on a high heat: 30 seconds to 1 minute is all it takes in most cases. Frozen scallops, although of a good standard, do retain water. After defrosting, cook them separately from the sauce so they don’t water it down, then add to the sauce just before serving. Some recipes ask for the roe (the pinky-orange bit) to be removed from the eye or abductor muscle (the round, white bit). This is because some people don’t like the stronger flavour of the roe (or the fact that it is the reproductive gland)—so it’s really a matter of personal preference. In the US, the eye of the scallop is preferred and is sold without the roe; in Europe, the roe is often kept on. 
The best scallops are, of course, bought fresh, in the shell, to be shucked yourself.Dried scallops are used sparingly (they’re expensive) to sweeten or add flavour to 
soups, stews and stocks, especially high quality stock. They should be soaked in water for 30 minutes before use.
Scampi are also known as ‘Dublin Bay prawns’, ‘Norway lobsters’, ‘deep sea lobsters’, 
‘lobsterettes’ (US) or ‘langoustines’ (France). Scampi resemble giant prawns (hence the confusion) although the species is classified as a lobster. True scampi, like those caught in deep-sea fishing off New Zealand or Australia, are a narrow pincer-clawed species with slender bodies and a more delicate flavour than rock lobster. Be wary of restaurants in the US that serve ‘shrimp scampi’, believing diners will think of it as a special Italian dish because it’s cooked with garlic and olive oil or butter—what next, ‘veal vitello’?
Shark—a dozen or so edible species of shark are caught for their meat, although as 
many as half of the 350 species are deemed useless to the fishing industry (only 7 per cent are classed as highly important). Shark is similar in appearance to dogfish, and the several species of dogfish as well as the elephant fish can be referred to as shark. All shark is marketed as ‘flake’ in its filleted form. Flake is popular in fish and chip shops for its price and the fact that it is boneless. Squid, calamari and cuttlefish are all in the same family. Sometimes ‘calamari’ and ‘squid’ are used interchangeably, and although separately they could be mistaken for one another, line them up and the differences are apparent. The word ‘calamari’ is often mistakenly used to describe cleaned squid and, just to confuse matters, is a term used by Italians and The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 527Greeks to describe more than one squid. Cuttlefish is a stumpier type of squid, favoured by 
professional cooks for its stronger flavour, tenderness and its ink. 
Cuttlefish, squid and calamari should be bought whole. Pre-cut calamari or squid rings 
tend to be cut from a larger specimen, and the larger the creature, the tougher it will be.
Dried squid is enjoyed as a late-night drinking snack. It can also be used as a 
seasoning, soaked and then shredded before adding to soups, sauces, stir-fries and salads.
SpiceS
Spices, like dried herbs, should be used as close to their date of manufacture as possible. Many people believe a jar of supermarket spice will outlive their grandchildren, when in fact it is probably already past its pungent best. Best of all is to buy whole spices and grind them as you need them. And as the spice snob knows all too well, the best place to buy a particular spice is from a shop based on the cuisine it is used in which ensures a high turnover of that spice. 
The list below will help you identify which spices are associated with which cuisines 
so you can source them from a grocer dealing in that produce. It concentrates on indigenous spices with some common spices in daily use: 
Africa—allspice, chilli, clove, coriander seed, cumin seed, ginger, pepper; Australia—lemon myrtle, Tasmanian pepper;Central and northern Europe—aniseed, black pepper, blue fenugreek, caraway seed, 
celery seed, cinnamon, clove, dill seed, fennel seed, juniper berry, nutmeg, paprika, poppy seed, saffron;
South Asia—ajowan, black cardamom, black cumin, cardamom, chilli, cinnamon, ginger, 
turmeric;
South-east and east Asia—cassia, chilli, clove, cubeb pepper, Indonesian and 
Vietnamese cinnamon, galangal, garlic, ginger, nutmeg, Sichuan pepper, star anise, turmeric;
Mediterranean region—allspice, aniseed, black pepper, cardamom, cinnamon, clove, 
coriander seed, cumin, fennel, fenugreek, mace, nutmeg, onion seed, saffron, sumac, thyme;
West and central Asia—asafoetida, black mustard seed, cardamom, chilli, cumin seed, 
dill seed, fenugreek, garlic, ginger, poppy seed;
West India and the Americas—allspice, cayenne, celery seed, chilli, clove, filé, 
paprika, vanilla.
Spice mixeS  and paS teS
Making your own spice mix is a rewarding culinary challenge that is, unfortunately, rarely undertaken due to the many commercial products available. Recipes for spice mixes can be found in specific cookbooks and on the internet—choose reputable recipes that encourage the use of the freshest possible ingredients. If you’re not prepared to make your own, then I recommend pastes available at Indian or Asian food stores or from the family flogging their wares at the local Sunday market. 
The aromatics of spices are activated and heightened when exposed to heat. This is why 
pastes are sautéed before being added to other ingredients, and whole spices are dry-roasted before grinding and mixing into a spice mix. To dry-roast means to cook in a dry pan over medium heat, remembering to shake the pan or stir. Spices should be dry-roasted one at a The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 528time as different spices take different lengths of time and you will be in danger of burning 
some if you cook them all together. Remove from the heat when the spice begins to smoke and transfer to another dish immediately to stop the cooking. Crush whole spices in a mortar and pestle, a food processor, a pepper grinder or a coffee grinder. (After putting spices through a coffee grinder, clean it by grinding a handful of plain rice.) See also Bengali five spice; Garam masala; Kebsa; Mixed spice; Quatre épices; Ras el hanout; Togarashi.
Types of spice
Ajowan is a member of a large family of spices that includes cumin, dill and caraway. The dried seed is reasonably hot with a strong thyme-like flavour. It is used mostly in Indian cuisine. 
Allspice is the dried, unripe berry from a tree of the myrtle family. Although the name 
suggests a mix of different spices, in fact it derives from the aroma’s likeness to a mix of cloves, cinnamon, pepper and nutmeg. If necessary, you can replace allspice with equal parts of those four spices. Not to be confused with mixed spice, allspice is also known as ‘English spice’ and ‘Jamaica pepper’ (and in some places ‘pimento’). For really fresh allspice, buy the whole berry and pound or grind your own powder.
Anise is similar in appearance to dill seed. Although often used in cakes and biscuits, 
it is mainly harvested for use in alcohol (Pernod, ouzo and raki). Anise should not be confused with star anise.
Anise pepper see Sichuan pepper.Annatto is a small, triangular, brick-red spice with only the slightest sweet and 
peppery flavour. It is used more often as a colouring, in cheese, butter and confectionery, and in Filipino, Latin American and Caribbean cuisine (described in Food by Waverley Root as a spice ‘with which red Americans colored their bodies and white Americans color their butter’). There is no real substitute for annatto, as few other foods can provide this natural food colouring without also imparting their stronger individual flavour, thus the similarly coloured saffron, turmeric or paprika will alter the nature of the dish. A small quantity of cochineal will impart a deep-red hue similar to annatto (but then vegans would miss out, as cochineal is made from crushed and dried beetles). Also known as ‘achiote’, annatto can be bought in Asian and Indian grocers.
Asafoetida is sometimes called ‘giant fennel’, although it smells nothing like fennel 
and comes from the sap of the stem or roots of the asafoetida plant (a member of the parsley family). What it does smell like is more in tune with its colloquial names, ‘stinking gum’ or ‘devil’s dung’. The name comes from the Persian word ‘aza’ meaning ‘resin’ and the Latin word ‘fetida’ meaning ‘stinking’. The unpleasant smell mellows when cooked, however, leaving an aroma more like onion. Important in any authentic Indian or Middle Eastern cooking, it is used in place of garlic and as a flavour enhancer and a digestive aid. 
Bengali five spice or panch phora is used in curries and for fried vegetable and seafood 
dishes. It contains cumin seed, fennel seed, fenugreek seed, mustard seeds and nigella seeds.
Black onion seeds see Nigella.Caraway is from the same family as parsley. Its fresh leaves and roots can also be 
eaten but most often the caraway seed is eaten (technically the fruit of the plant). Caraway seeds taste of a combination of dill and anise with a tangy, almost nutty flavour and are popular in the cuisines of Austria, southern Germany and North Africa. When a recipe calls for you to grind your own caraway seeds, you will find it hard going unless you dry-roast them first. The roasted seeds are much easier to crush. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 529Cardamom is sold as powder, seeds or pods. The pods can be green or off-white. The 
more common green cardamom is the Indian variety; white cardamom, the size of a pea, is 
less common and less pungent than the green. Black or brown cardamom is a different spice which has a camphorous taste, and cannot be interchanged with green cardamom. If the recipe calls for seeds or powder, it is best to buy cardamom in pods and remove or grind the seeds yourself. (Roast the pods whole before removing the seeds.) Often the pod is simply bruised (crushed with the flat of a knife) and added whole to the dish. 
Chinese five-spice powder is used as a seasoning in sauces, marinades and cooked red 
meat dishes. It contains equal parts cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, star anise and Sichuan pepper. 
Chinese pepper see Sichuan pepper.Cinnamon can be bought as sticks (quills) or ground. The best quality cinnamon is 
Ceylon cinnamon, Indonesian cinnamon is a medium quality option, and Vietnamese cinnamon is of poor quality, resembling cassia in appearance and flavour.
Cloves tend to lose volatile oils through evaporation, so shouldn’t be stored for 
long periods. To check freshness, drop some in water: if they sink or float upright, all is well, but if they lie on their side, they are stale. I have seen fresh cloves on the stem in markets, looking evocative with their pink and light-green buds, but have found no references to using them in cooking. These unopened buds from the clove tree can be picked from the stem, laid on a mat and dried in the sun (about 4 days, weather permitting), leaving you with the dark brown, tack-like spice we all know. This freshly dried clove will be pungent, high in volatile oils and ready to use. 
Coriander seeds are technically the fruit of the plant. As with most whole spices, 
the powder is best made by lightly roasting and then grinding whole seeds in a mortar and pestle. This freshly ground coriander is far superior to the ground coriander found on supermarket shelves.
Cubeb, a hollow black spice from the pepper family, is hard to source in the West. Used 
in Indonesian curries, cubeb can be replaced with black pepper mixed with a little allspice. 
Dukkah, a North African (Egyptian) condiment, is delicious with bread dipped in extra 
virgin olive oil or as a coating for meat and fish. It is made up principally of coriander seeds, cumin seeds, nuts (usually hazelnuts), brown sesame seeds, salt and pepper, all roasted and then coarsely ground together.
Fennel seed (technically the fruit of the plant) has a pale-green tinge when dried; the 
greener the seed, the better the quality. It has a sweet anise aroma and flavour, excellent in pickled vegetable mixes, in bread and with seafood.
Fenugreek is used as a spice although it is in fact a legume (and used as one in 
Ethiopian cuisine). As many as 50 varieties exist, differing in colour from red-brown to yellowish-green. Dried fenugreek has no discernible smell, but once ground and cooked, its true character is revealed: it has a strong, acrid curry smell with a slightly bitter taste that strangely resembles maple syrup. It is an indispensable addition to curries and chutneys in India and Pakistan. Fresh fenugreek leaves are sold in bunches (the stalks are discarded, as they are too bitter to eat).
Garam masala is a ground spice mix made from a base of cumin and coriander along with 
cardamom, cinnamon, black peppercorns and Indian bay leaves. There are many variations, some containing up to 12 spices (such as nutmeg, mace, dried chilli, ground ginger and fenugreek). Garam masala is usually added towards the end of cooking a dish.
Jamaica pepper see Allspice.Kebsa is a spice mix from Saudi Arabia and the Gulf. A mix of cardamom, cinnamon, The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 530cumin, cloves, nutmeg, coriander seed, loomi, red chilli and black pepper, it is used in 
soups, as a dipping spice for bread and olive oil, and as a rub for meats. A very quick kebsa spice blend can be as simple as cinnamon, cumin and allspice. There is also a meal known as kebsa, a Saudi tradition of hospitality, a feast of goat, lamb, chicken, salads and fruit. 
Mace the spice has nothing to do with chemical mace, the spray used to disable an 
attacker in a dark alley. It is similar to nutmeg but recommended for use in savoury dishes. 
Mixed spice is used in biscuits, cakes and puddings in Western cuisine. It is a mix of 
allspice, cinnamon, cloves, ginger, nutmeg and a small amount of black pepper. Making your own mixed spice can be an exercise in individuality; play with the quantities or add other sweet spices such as ground coriander, cardamom or anise. 
Nigella, also known as ‘kalonji’ or ‘charnushka’ (US), are the teardrop-shaped, black 
and pungent seeds from a bush found throughout India. This aromatic, slightly bitter spice is used to give a nutty edge to curries and breads, and in Middle Eastern and Turkish cuisine. Nigella should not be confused with black sesame seeds (nigella have a more angular shape to the seeds), black onion seeds (which is a misnomer), or black cumin (although, to confuse matters, ‘black cumin’ is the literal translation of the Hindi word for kalonji). 
Nutmeg can be bought whole or powdered. The whole kernels can be grated directly onto 
or into food, but be careful not to add too much. In its natural state, the nutmeg kernel has a lacy, scarlet covering, known as ‘mace’, which, when removed and dried, turns an orange/yellow colour and has the flavour of nutmeg. The general rule is, nutmeg for sweet dishes, mace for savoury. 
Panch phora see Bengali five spice.Pepper, no matter what its colour, begins life as the unripe, green peppercorn. Black 
pepper is the most aromatic pepper, produced by picking the clusters of berries when not quite ripe, then leaving them in piles to ferment. After a few days, the individual berries are spread out and left to dry in the sun for 2 or 3 more days or until they are shrivelled and nearly black. Black pepper from India is regarded as the best, especially the Malabar and Tellicherry varieties. One of the hottest black peppers is from Lampong province in Sumatra and it, too, is highly regarded. White pepper is the most pungent of the peppers, but the least aromatic. It is produced from the fully ripened berries that are just about to turn red. After harvest, the clusters are packed in bags and soaked in water for more than a week. This softens the outer coating, or pericarp, so that it may be removed to reveal the grey centres. The peppercorns are then spread out to dry in the sun where they naturally bleach to white. Green peppercorns are harvested while still immature and cured in brine. They can be used in curry pastes (soak in cold water for 30 minutes then pound into the paste), or added whole (first rinse in cold water) to cream sauces or stews, and to pâtés, terrines and dressings, for a musky, peppery bite with far less pungency than black or white. Tasmanian pepper, also known as ‘mountain pepper’ and ‘native pepper’, is native to Australia and hard to source from outside the country. It resembles black pepper in size and appearance, but there is no substitute for this flavour. Tasmanian pepper has gained popularity through the ‘bush food’ movement in Australia. 
Pink peppercorns are not actually peppercorns but berries. They are sweet and aromatic 
and make a good (although less fragrant) alternative to juniper berries. Sold either dried or in brine, they are used in sauces, with fish or poultry, or ground to use as a final dusting for garnish. Freeze-dried pink peppercorns are often sold mixed with black and white peppercorns for people to use in clear grinders—the purpose is more for display than flavour. They should be used in moderation, as large quantities have been said to cause The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 531respiratory ailments or irritation of mucous membranes.
Quatre épices (literally ‘four spices’) is a favourite spice in France, North Africa 
and the Middle East, made up of white pepper, ground nutmeg, ground ginger and ground 
cloves. It is used in French charcuterie, and Middle Eastern meat dishes.
Ras el hanout is a superbly fragrant and complex Moroccan spice blend. It roughly 
translates as ‘top of the shelf’ or ‘head of the shop’, which for a spice merchant represents the best blend of spices on offer. Although consisting of up to 15 different ingredients, it is subtle, and the addition of rose petals and lavender can impart a fantastic aroma, colour and underlying flavour. Like many of the spice blends, ras el hanout can be made with varied spice combinations and quantities, although often the spices are mixed in equal portions. A basic blend might include black pepper (Tellicherry), cardamom, ginger, cinnamon, mace, turmeric, allspice, nutmeg, saffron, galangal, cayenne, coriander, cassia, cloves and nigella. Ras el hanout can be added to couscous and rice as they cook, and is also used in meat and potato tagines (casseroles), meatballs and lamb dishes. It is best to roast the ground spice mix before using. 
Sansho pepper see Sichuan pepper.Seven-flavour spice see Togarashi.Sichuan pepper is also known as ‘anise pepper’, ‘Chinese pepper’ and ‘spice pepper’. It 
has an aromatic, woody/lemony flavour with a slight anaesthetic feel on the tongue. The aroma comes from the pod and not the seeds. The seeds will have already been removed from store-bought pepper, as they have an unnecessary bitterness about them. You should also remove any fragments of stem that you find as they are tough and pointy, which could be harmful on swallowing. Sichuan pepper can be used as a condiment: first mix with salt, dry-toast in a wok until it begins to smoke, then cool and grind coarsely. Chinese sichuan pepper is the most common but you can also buy Indonesian sichuan, North Indian sichuan and Nepalese sichuan. The Japanese version is called ‘sansho’ and is used in togarashi.
Spice pepper see Sichuan pepper.Star anise is a star-shaped spice (each star has 8 points) with the distinct flavour and 
aroma of aniseed or licorice. It is collected from a small evergreen shrub in Japan yet used significantly in Chinese cuisine. Moderation is the key when using this pungent spice. It is usually added whole to a dish, but each point in the star contains a seed which can be removed and roasted separately then ground. Star anise should not be confused with anise.
Sumac is a tree, whose seed or berry is dried, ground and mixed with salt to produce 
the spice sumac. This tart, dark red spice is sprinkled over cooked rice, bread doughs, fish or lamb (before being cooked) and salads. Sumac is found in Middle Eastern grocers, and the dried seeds can also be purchased whole: crush and soak the seeds in warm water for about 20 minutes, then strain to produce a juice that is sour enough to be used instead of lemon juice. Note that some wild versions of sumac can be very poisonous. 
Togarashi or seven-flavour spice, is a popular Japanese spice mix used as a condiment 
to sprinkle over hotpots and noodle dishes, or for sukiyaki, or as a seasoning. The seven flavours are ground chilli, poppy seeds, sansho pepper, black sesame seeds, white sesame seeds, rape seeds and ground tangerine peel. The amount of chilli can be varied according to taste.
Za’atar, the Arabic word for wild thyme, is both a herb and a spice mix used in Middle 
Eastern cooking. It is sprinkled on bread before baking, soups, seafood, barbecued mutton and grilled meats. It is a blend of sumac, sesame seeds and the herb za’atar, and can be bought ready-made in Middle Eastern and Lebanese produce shops. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 532Sugar
Sugar comes in many forms—dried, powdered, dark sticky liquids—in different grades, and is 
mostly produced from sugar cane or the white root of sugar beets. (The by-product of sugar cane and sugar beet refining is molasses.) Screened sugars have been through a sifting method to divide the sugar into various sizes for different uses. The result is granulated sugar, such as plain or caster sugar. Different screened sugars are used for commercial products, depending on the granule size required: coarse sugar, Crystal 750, sugar, nonpareil, fine sugar and extra fine sugar. Milled sugar refers to powdered sugars such as icing sugar. Most of these contain free-flowing agents, such as starch, tri-calcium phosphate or maltodextrin. 
Need I go on about the over-consumption of refined sugars in our diets? Suffice to say 
that with diabetes an ever-increasing diagnosis in Western society, and obesity on the rise in young children, moderation is essential.
Problem solving
Lumpy sugar? Pour through a sieve, gently squash in a mortar and pestle or keep to one side 
and use in hot caramel, toffee, hot beverages or any other dish where free-flowing sugar is not required. 
TyPes of sugar
Blended sugar is cane or beet sugar with dextrose (derived from corn) added, which makes for 
a cheaper product. It is not as sweet as granulated sugar. Because dextrose is hygroscopic (attracts water from the air), using blended sugar in a recipe could alter the end result. 
Brown sugar can be light or dark, both quite moist. The flavour varies slightly according 
to the richness of the molasses content. Brown sugar can replace most other brown (especially muscovado) and even white granulated sugar, as well as coconut sugar and palm sugar. 
Caster/castor sugar is the finest of the screened sugars. Most often used in domestic 
baking and dessert/sweets, because its small granule dissolves quickly, it can be replaced with white granulated sugar that has been blended until the grains are as fine as possible.
Cinnamon sugar is, as the name suggests, sugar with cinnamon added. To make your own, 
use 7 parts caster sugar to 1 part ground cinnamon. 
Coconut sugar is made from the sap of the coconut tree. (Gathering the sap eventually 
renders the tree useless for quality coconut production.) The sugar is very dark brown, with less flavour than pure palm sugar—it is similar in taste to dark brown sugar which can be used to replace it if necessary. It is sold in a moist block.
Demerara sugar is a light brown crystal sugar. When made properly, it is only partially 
refined, which leaves the natural molasses intact, but unfortunately most demerara sugar available is made from refined white sugar with molasses added. (To find the genuine stuff, look on the packet: there should be no list of ingredients as demerara sugar is just that, not sugar and molasses.) It can be replaced with light brown sugar or raw sugar.
Date sugar is made from the sap of the date palm. It adds a delicate flavour to baked 
goods, beverages and other foods. 
Dry fondant sugar, used to make fondant, contains 10 per cent spray-dried glucose.Evaporated cane sugar juice is one for the vegans. It hasn’t gone through the final 
stages of clarification over charcoaled animal bones that some other sugars are subjected to.
Fondant sugar is slightly different to dry fondant sugar, which is used in royal icing 
for cake decorating and fondant making. It is a very fine, pure form of icing sugar (without glucose). The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 533Icing sugar or pure icing sugar, known in the US as ‘confectioners’ sugar’, is a milled 
sugar. Unlike many of the milled sugars, pure icing sugar contains no addititives. It can be 
replaced with a homemade icing sugar mixture: blend 1 cup granulated sugar with 1 tablespoon cornflour until powdery. It can also be called ‘powdered sugar’ and ‘10 x sugar’.
Muscovado sugar, also known as ‘Barbados sugar’, is a rich, moist, brown sugar which is 
less refined than most other brown sugars. Replace with dark brown sugar if necessary.
Palm sugar is also know as ‘jaggery’, ‘java sugar’ or ‘gula melaka’. (The latter name 
also refers to a Malaysian dessert made from tapioca or sago, coconut milk and a palm sugar syrup.) This hard block sugar is found in Asian grocers and some supermarkets. Read the ingredients as several brands are made from cane sugar and molasses, not from the sap of the sugar palm. It is available light coloured and very hard or as a dark, almost black and moister block (which may in fact be coconut sugar—check the label). Palm sugar has a flavour unto itself which other sugars will not bring to the dish.
Pearl sugar is used in the baking industry for decorative purposes. Also known as 
‘decorative sugar’ or ‘sanding sugar’, these are simply lumps of refined sugar particles.
Preserving sugar is designed for jams and preserves. It has large white crystals 
which dissolve slowly and so do not settle in the bottom of the pan, reducing the need for stirring and the risk of burning. In addition, less froth results in a clearer preserve.
Raw sugar is a semi-refined product similar to turbinado. It has a light caramel/
molasses flavour, and is also called ‘plantation sugar’ or ‘sugar in the raw’. In Canada, however, ‘raw sugar’ refers to the product imported simply for refining into other sugars and is therefore not sold to the consumer, as it still contains impurities.
Rock sugar, also known as ‘Chinese rock sugar’ or ‘rock candy’, is made from very 
pure white sugar and comes as large white crystals, either clear or yellow. Not as sweet as granulated sugar, it is used for red roasting and (the yellow variety) as a decorative sugar, as well as in cooking.
Rolled fondant, also known as ‘sugar paste’, ‘pastillage’ and ‘roll out icing’, is a 
mix of icing sugar, cornflour and gum arabic. It is used in cake decorating as it’s easy to mould, shape and colour. Once applied, it needs to dry before decorating.
Silk sugar is a new product which, as the name suggests, is as smooth as silk when 
commercially made into fondant; however, it is not readily available to the public.
Snow sugar or MR sugar is a commercially available product favoured by bakers and chefs 
who have their sweet goods on display. This moisture-resistant product tastes of sugar and looks like icing sugar, but it won’t dissolve when dusted over berries or cakes. It cannot be used in the cooking process, so is strictly aesthetic. 
Soft icing mixture is a milled sugar that is better used for frosting on a cake than in 
baking, as it contains a starch as a free-flowing agent. See also Icing sugar.
Sugar syrup, known as ‘simple syrup’ in the US, is a syrup of water and sugar, which 
has been boiled until the sugar dissolves. Used for sweetening bar drinks (cocktails) and as a base for fruit sauces it is usually made with equal parts sugar and water, but can vary depending on the sweetness required (a sweeter mix may be 2 parts sugar to 1 part water).
Turbinado sugar is a light brown crystal sugar similar to demerara. Use light brown 
sugar or raw sugar as a substitute.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 534Sugar temperatureS
°C °F use
small thread 100 212
large thread 104 219
small pearl 106 220
large pearl 109 228
soft ball 112 234 fudge, fondant
medium ball 114 237 marshmallows
firm ball 118 244 caramels
hard ball 120 248 toffee (taffies, US)
very hard ball 124 255
light crack 135 275
crack 144 291
hard crack 152 306 butterscotch, brittles, spun 
sugar
caramelised sugar 155–70 310–38
alternativeS  to Sugar
In baking, sugar provides a chemical reaction as well as acting as a sweetener. Be aware of this when substituting with another sweetener in cooking, because the alternatives may not provide the bulk and colouring sugar can provide. There are numerous synthetic sweeteners on the market, as well as some good natural sweeteners, which in some cases are many hundreds of times sweeter than sugar. Do your research to establish the benefits and problems of alternatives, depending on your reason for cutting back on sugar. As a note, vegans may choose not to consume white sugars because they can be refined with the use of charcoal made from animal bones. 
Agave nectar is a sweetener extracted from the agave, a large succulent plant with 
thick fleshy leaves. It is a very thick liquid that goes a long way.
Corn syrup is available light or dark. The light syrup has been clarified, removing 
colour and cloudy particles. Dark syrup has had refiners added to produce a stronger-tasting, dark-coloured syrup. Corn syrup is high in fructose, which absorbs and retains moisture well, so using it in baked goods can result in a moist product that stays fresher for longer. Corn syrup can be replaced with other syrups but is not as sweet as, say, honey or maple.
Fructose is a term for sugar found in honey, corn and certain fruits. The sweetest 
of the simple sugars, it is almost twice as sweet as sucrose and turns into glucose once ingested. Fructose can be bought in granulated form.
Fruit juice makes for a good sweetener, but for many diabetics, a concentrated fruit 
juice is still off limits. Fruit crystals, although hard to find, are available. 
Glucose powder is made from grapes or fruit, and is closer to a pure glucose. Both are 
sold at chemists as dietary supplements, as syrup, powder or tablets. Glucose is much less sweet than sugar, and is valued as an energy booster because it heads straight for the blood stream.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 535Glucose syrup is more dextrin than glucose and is made from maize syrup.
Honey is as much as 60 per cent sweeter than sugar, with a higher caloric count. Honey 
should never be served to babies, as contaminated honey is the only food product that can cause infant botulism. For true vegans, honey is a no-no, as it is considered that commerical honey production exploits bees. (Bees naturally produce extra honey for the winter; beekeepers take all the honey, feeding bees a cheap, low-grade corn syrup instead, which shortens their life span 2–3 years compared to 6 years for wild bees. Some exclusive keepers rotate honey supplies, ensuring the bees have enough for their winter period, but although honey from these keepers tastes great, it has a far smaller yield, is hard to source, expensive and not commercially viable.)
Maple crystals are a wonderful product with a high price tag. Much sweeter than sugar, 
they have the umami factor: tiny crystals with an excellent maple explosion in the mouth. Finding the product outside Canada can be a little frustrating. 
Maple syrup is sweeter and better for you than sugar. Buy organic maple syrup wherever 
possible, as it doesn’t contain the mould inhibitors or formaldehyde that may taint other pure maple syrups. Maple-flavoured syrup is a very cheap imitation of the good stuff. It is a blend of corn syrup (pure sugar) with artificial flavours.
Rice syrup is only half as sweet as cane sugar, with a similar viscosity to honey. It 
is not recommended as a sugar alternative in cakes and baked goods.
Stevia is a sweetener made from the South American plant Stevia rebaudiana ‘Bertoni’. 
It is a green powder 30 times sweeter than sugar, with no calories and a sweet herby taste. It is not recognised by world health authorities, but it may be that stevia is controversial only because it poses a threat to synthetic brands and the sugar industry. You’re most likely to find it as a dietary supplement in health food shops, and stevia cookbooks are available.
Stevioside is a white powder derived from stevia, but further refined and without the 
slight herb flavour. It is 300 times sweeter than sugar so should be used sparingly. 
Sucanat is a whole cane sugar which contains the juice of pressed cane sugar with 
molasses added. Still a sugar as far as diabetics are concerned, it contains a small amount of vitamins, minerals and trace elements which help to reduce the negative effects of long-term white sugar use. Sucanat can be substituted for brown sugar, measure for measure. 
Sucrose is the sugar extracted primarily from sugar cane and sugar beet.Synthetic (toxic) sweeteners include many brands that are now household names. Use 
these products at your own discretion, and research them before believing they are good at what they do. Types of synthetic sweeteners include: neotame; aspartame (NutraSweet, Equal); sucralose, which is 600 times sweeter than sucrose (Splenda); and acesulfame-k, which is 200 times sweeter than sucrose (Sunette, Sweet n Safe, SweetOne).The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 536TomaToes
Tomatoes arrive in all their glorious shapes, sizes and colours. And like most fruit and 
vegetables, the tomato can indeed be a wondrous fruit when home grown—tasting sweet and delicious—or it can be a sad, pale, tasteless ball of water that has been mass-produced. By supporting farmers’ markets you will be joining the chorus; This is how tomatoes used to taste.
Tips:
* Fragrance is a better indicator of a good tomato than colour; use your nose to smell the 
stem end. The stem should retain the garden aroma of the plant itself. If it doesn’t, your 
tomato will lack flavour.
* Keep tomatoes on the windowsill to ripen, then store at room temperature. If tomatoes are 
fully ripe or starting to soften, use them immediately or move them to the fridge.
* The best knife for cutting tomatoes has a serrated edge, is about 15 cm long, and has 
finer teeth than a bread knife.
* Add to a leafy salad at the last minute to prevent the acid and weight of the tomatoes 
from breaking down the lettuce.
* To avoid soggy sandwiches, place each slice of tomato on a piece of paper towel to absorb 
excess water before it goes on the bread.
* The acid in fresh or canned tomatoes will strip an iron pan of its natural nonstick 
coating leaving it susceptible to rusting—choose something like stainless steel for cooking.
* Tomato ‘water’, the clearish liquid that escapes from a sliced tomato, can be used as a 
low-acidity stand-in for lemon juice. Try it for marinating raw fish.
* To peel a tomato, score the skin very lightly with the point of a sharp knife. Then 
blanch for 10–15 seconds, no more—the longer the tomato cooks, the more flesh will be ripped off when you peel the tomato. Don’t drop the tomatoes in iced water after blanching, as this will dilute the flavour.
* Unripe, green tomatoes can be sliced, dipped in polenta and fried.
* Rehydrate dried tomatoes (those not sold in oil) in hot water for 15 minutes. Drain 
and then marinate in olive oil, chopped herbs, and balsamic or white wine vinegar (1 part vinegar to 5 parts oil). Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
Types of T omaTo
Beefsteak tomatoes are bright red and flat ribbed with solid, juicy flesh. Good for slicing.
Cherry tomatoes, teardrop tomatoes and grape tomatoes are, respectively, small and 
round, teardrop or oblong in shape. They are red or yellow, ideal for salads or mixed into 
pasta at the very last minute.
Purple tomatoes from South America are very tasty raw, but can be cooked as well.Roma tomatoes are also known as ‘plum tomatoes’, ‘sauce tomatoes’ and ‘egg tomatoes’. 
These medium-sized, oblong tomatoes are ideal for soups, pasta sauces, drying, roasting and salads, as it has few seeds.
Tiger tomatoes are novel and very tasty raw.Yellow tomatoes can be pear-shaped, round or oblong and suit all dishes, pickling, 
roasting and eating fresh.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 537Food allergies, intolerances and Food additives
A food allergy should not be mistaken for a food intolerance. A food allergy is often caused 
by the immune system responding to proteins within the food and overloading on chemicals such as histamine, which in turn brings about an allergic reaction, such as swelling, wheezing, hives, etc. On the other hand, an intolerance or a sensitivity to a food or an ingredient within food is often linked to other health problems. It has more to do with digestion and has less defined symptoms. Food allergies in adults are rarely curable, while food sensitivities may often improve or disappear over a period of time. Allergy symptoms range from localised hives and swelling to the life-threatening anaphylaxis, which causes difficulty in breathing and/or a drop in blood pressure (shock). Vomiting, diarrhoea, blocked or runny nose, an intense sense of fear, dizziness, swelling of the face and throat (extreme swelling and immediate facial disfigurement are not uncommon), difficulty in thinking and tightness in the chest are also signs to beware of. 
Allergies from food occur in around 1 in 20 children and 1 in 100 adults. In up to 80 
per cent of cases, children grow out of these; but allergies to nuts, seeds and seafood often continue into adult life and must be monitored. The most severe allergies, which can cause anaphylaxis, are to peanuts, tree nuts (such as pistachios, walnuts, almonds, pecans, brazil nuts and macadamias) and shellfish. Other common allergies are to cow’s milk, soy, eggs, fish and gluten.
Seek immediate advice from a medical practitioner if you have an adverse reaction to 
any food or drink. 
AlternAtives to A llergy-cAusing foods 
Allergy-causing foods can often be successfully replaced with alternative ingredients, but 
some alternatives will change the flavour. Milk, eggs, wheat and gluten have alternatives, for example, but it’s hard to replace nuts and seafood without changing the nature of the dish. Beware of cross-contamination when preparing food for a guest with an allergy. Even the smallest amount can trigger a nasty reaction. Food should be prepared on completely different cutting boards and benches and cooked in different pans. 
AlternAtive flours
Gluten is a substance found in grains such as wheat, oats, rye and barley. Some people 
require a gluten-free diet, most often those who are diagnosed with coeliac disease (gluten-sensitive enteropathy). See the section on flour which gives an extensive list of wheat- and gluten-free flours.
AlternAtives to products contAining gluten 
Xanthan gum (derived from the fermentation of corn sugar with a bacterium) or guar gum 
(derived from the seeds of a plant originating in India, Cyamoposis tetragonolobus) help gluten-free baked products to bind and hold their shape. For best results, use a combination of the two gums in the proportions of 2 parts xanthan to 1 part guar. Add a small quantity of water to the recipe to encourage the gums to become sticky. Add 
½–1 teaspoon of 
the combined gums and water to a single recipe of biscuits, cakes or bread. For larger quantities, you will have to experiment with the quantites of gum and different proportions of flours. 
For homemade gluten-free baking powder—mix together: 
¼ cup bicarbonate of soda and  
½ cup cream of tartar. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 538For homemade gluten-free flour—in recipes, replace 1 cup plain flour with one of the 
following gluten- and wheat-free alternatives: 1 ½ cups rolled oats (try putting the rolled 
oats in the food processor to change the texture); ½ cup soy flour and ½ cup rice flour;  
½ cup soy flour, ¼ cup rice flour and ¼ cup potato flour; ½ cup soy flour and ½ cup cornflour; 
or ¼ cup soy flour, ¼ cup tapioca flour and ½ cup brown rice flour.
AlternAtives to eggs
See the Eggs section, Alternatives to eggs, for suggestions.
AlternAtives to milk
Almond milk can be easily made at home. It tastes great, has no cholesterol and can be 
substituted for cow’s milk measure for measure when baking. For homemade almond milk—blend 1 cup shelled raw almonds to a fine powder. Add 2 cups water and blend for 2 minutes. Keep the blender running while slowly adding another 2 cups water. Strain slowly through muslin or cheesecloth. Almond milk will keep in the fridge for 4–5 days. There will be close to  1 cup almond fibre leftover. You can keep this in the fridge and use it as a body moisturiser in the shower.
Fruit milks are usually made from very ripe bananas, rockmelon or honeydew melon. 
For banana milk, simply blend 1 very ripe banana with 1 cup of water. For the rockmelon and honeydew, scoop the flesh straight into the blender and puree to form a creamy, milky texture.
Horchata and Mexican horchata are both used as milk substitutes.Goat’s milk contains lactose (as does the milk of all mammals) but some people find it 
more digestible than cow’s milk, so it is sometimes recommended as an alternative.
Lactose-reduced milk is exactly that. Lactose has been reduced by 40–100 per cent. 
People with lactose intolerance can look into these alternatives, but for those allergic to milk proteins, move on. 
Non-dairy creamers and whiteners are common in the US but rare elsewhere. These dairy 
alternatives, usually reserved for beverages, contain corn syrup solids and palm oil, and are free of lactose, cholesterol, allergens and milk protein. Some contain coconut oil, canola oil or other such ingredients. 
Oat milk is a good replacement for drinking and in cooking, with excellent health 
benefits, although it’s not suitable for people who are gluten-intolerant.
Rice milk can be used on cereal, for drinking, in baking and as a thickening agent.Soy milk is an alternative although some people are allergic to Soy.
AlternAtives to seA food
For those allergic to seafood, there is no substitute. Allergic reactions to seafood (which includes fish and shellfish, the most common being prawns or shrimp) are the third most common food allergy after eggs and milk. The allergy is usually life-long, and if anything, the reactions can become more aggressive after each exposure to seafood. In severe cases, even the vapours from cooked seafood can trigger a reaction.
AlternAtives to meAt
Ardent meat lovers would argue that there are no substitutes, but that does not help 
vegetarians, vegans or anyone changing the way they eat. Many techniques and accompaniments that work with meat can successfully be applied to non-meat products.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 539Mushrooms have long been considered meat for vegetarians. Cut into large chunks or kept 
whole, mushrooms bulk out a curry, stir-fry or casserole perfectly, adding a meaty texture 
that other vegetables fail to deliver.
Pureed nuts and seeds are a good source of protein in place of meat.Seitan is made from gluten, is high in protein and has a meat-like texture when cooked. 
Seitan absorbs flavours well and can be sliced and diced, then used in stir-fries, casseroles or cooked in a sauce.
Tempeh is a fermented soy bean product that is an excellent high-protein meat 
substitute. Tempeh is one of the most versatile alternatives to meat and it takes to marinating, stir-frying, grilling, braising, sautéing and baking.
Tofu, another soy product, can be purchased ready-made (burgers, steaks, hot dogs) as 
well as in blocks.
TVP (Textured Vegetable Protein) is dried, minced soy protein used as a substitute for 
minced meat. TVP has no discernible flavour of its own so relies on added ingredients for a boost. Any recipe made from minced beef can be recreated using TVP.
Food additives
This list of additives is designed as a quick reference to the main food additives ever present in packaged foods. If you still have concerns, you can have a checklist sent to you from your country’s governing food authority that deals with additives, genetically modified foods, labelling, irradiation, food standards and safety.
Some additives are not labelled, and this is legal when an ingredient within a 
processed food itself contains additives. Confusing? Yes, but the simple answer is to contact the manufacturer for this ingredient information. Otherwise send for a complete ‘code breaker’ from your national food authority.
Food additives are an important component in the preservation of our food, ensuring 
longevity and ease of use. Additives are also used to improve the taste and appearance of the food. However, with the good comes the bad, and some additives do have an adverse effect on some people. Most intolerances are blamed on the additive, when in fact the intolerance may be attributable to a naturally occuring food component such as amines, glutamates and salicylates. In either case, people with allergies want to know what it is they are consuming, others simply don’t like the amount of added extras thrown into a tasty snack.
The varied functions of food additives are: colouring agents, flavouring, colour 
retention agents, preservatives, flavour enhancers, mineral salts, food acids, humectants, emulsifiers, food acids, anti-caking agents, stabilisers, thickeners, vegetable gums, propellants, glazing agents, and flour treatment agents.
There are so many food additives out there, with equally confusing names, that code 
numbers have been added to simplify their identification. This list (sourced from the Australian and New Zealand Food Authority) is an international list, and the codes are universal, but keep in mind it is not the most extensive list, and each country may allow and use additives that are not used and accepted in other countries. A letter in front of the numbers simply denotes a country; for example ‘E100’ is still turmeric, but found on packages in the UK.
The following list shows code number, prescribed name and use. Additive numbers are in 
bold-face type, followed by the name in Roman, then the use in brackets.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 540100 curcumin [colouring]
100 turmeric [colouring]101 riboflavin [colouring] 101 riboflavin 5’ phosphate 
sodium [colouring]
102 tartrazine [colouring]103 alkanet [colouring]104 quinoline yellow Cl 
47005 [colouring]
110 sunset yellow FCF 
[colouring]
120 carmines [colouring]120 cochineal Cl 75470 
[colouring]
122 azorubine [colouring]123 amaranth [colouring]124 ponceau 4R [colouring]127 erythrosine [colouring]129 allure red AC Cl 16035 
[colouring]
132 indigotine [colouring]133 brilliant blue FCF 
[colouring]
140 chlorophyll [colouring]141 chlorophyll-copper 
complex [colouring]
142 food green S [colouring]150 caramel [colouring]151 brilliant black BN 
[colouring]
153 activated vegetable 
carbon [colouring]
153 carbon blacks [colouring]155 brown HT [colouring]160 carotene, others 
[colouring]
160a beta-carotene 
[colouring]
160b annatto extracts 
[colouring]
160e beta-apo–8’ carotenal 
[colouring]
160f E-apo–8’ carotenoic 
acid methyl or ethyl ester [colouring]
161 xanthophylls [colouring]162 beet red [colouring]163 anthocyanins [colouring]170 calcium carbonate mineral 
salt [colouring]
171 titanium dioxide 
[colouring]
172 iron oxide, red, black, 
yellow [colouring]
174 silver [colouring]181 tannic acid [colouring]200 sorbic acid 
[preservative]
201 sodium sorbate 
[preservative]
202 potassium sorbate 
[preservative]
203 calcium sorbate 
[preservative]
210 benzoic acid 
[preservative]
211 sodium benzoate 
[preservative]
212 potassium benzoate 
[preservative]
213 calcium benzoate 
[preservative]
216 propylparaben 
[preservative]
218 methylparaben 
[preservative]
220 sulphur dioxide 
[preservative]
221 sodium sulphite 
[preservative]
222 sodium bisulphite 
[preservative]
223 sodium metabisulphite 
[preservative]
224 potassium metabisulphite 
[preservative]
225 potassium sulphite 
[preservative]
228 potassium bisulphite 
[preservative]
234 nisin [preservative]235 natamycin [preservative]242 dimethyl dicarbonate 
[preservative]
249 potassium nitrite 
[preservative, colour fixative]
250 sodium nitrite 
[preservative, colour fixative]
251 sodium nitrate 
[preservative, colour fixative]
252 potassium nitrate 
[preservative, colour fixative]
260 acetic acid, glacial 
[food acid]
261 potassium acetate [food 
acid]
262 sodium acetate [food 
acid]
262 sodium diacetate [food 
acid]
263 sodium acetate [food 
acid]
264 ammonium acetate [food 
acid]
270 lactic acid [food acid]280 propionic acid 
[preservative]
281 sodium propionate 
[preservative]
282 calcium propionate 
[preservative]
283 potassium propionate 
[preservative]
290 carbon dioxide 
[propellant]
296 malic acid [food acid]297 fumaric acid [food acid]300 ascorbic acid 
[antioxidant]
301 sodium ascorbate 
[antioxidant]
302 calcium ascorbate 
[antioxidant]
303 potassium ascorbate 
[antioxidant]
304 ascorbyl palmitate 
[antioxidant]
306 tocopherols concentrate 
[mixed antioxidant]
307 dl-a-tocopherol The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 541[antioxidant]
308 g-tocopherol 
[antioxidant]
309 d-tocopherol 
[antioxidant]
310 propyl gallate 
[antioxidant]
311 octyl gallate 
[antioxidant]
312 sodecyl gallate 
[antioxidant]
315 erythorbic acid 
[antioxidant]
316 sodium erythorbate 
[antioxidant]
319 tert-butylhydroquinone 
[antioxidant]
320 butylated hydroxyanisole 
[antioxidant]
321 butylated hydroxytoluene 
[antioxidant]
322 lecithin antioxidant 
[emulsifier]
325 sodium lactate [food 
acid]
326 potassium lactate [food 
acid]
327 calcium lactate [food 
acid]
328 ammonium lactate [food 
acid]
329 magnesium lactate [food 
acid]
330 citric acid [food acid]
331 sodium acid citrate 
[food acid]
331 sodium citrate [food 
acid]
331 sodium dihydrogen citrate 
[food acid]
332 potassium citrates [food 
acid]
333 calcium citrate [food 
acid]
334 tartaric acid [food 
acid]
335 sodium tartrate [food 
acid]336 potassium acid tartrate 
[food acid]
336 potassium tartrate [food 
acid]
337 potassium sodium tartrate 
[food acid]
338 phosphoric acid [food 
acid]
339 sodium phosphates 
[mineral salt]
340 potassium phosphates 
[mineral salt]
341 calcium phosphates 
[mineral salt]
342 ammonium phosphates 
[mineral salt]
343 magnesium phosphates 
[mineral salt]
349 ammonium malate [food 
acid]
350 dl-sodium malates [food 
acid]
351 potassium malate [food 
acid]
352 dl-calcium malate [food 
acid]
353 metatartaric acid [food 
acid]
354 calcium tartrate [food 
acid]
355 adipic acid [food acid]357 potassium adipate [food 
acid]
365 sodium fumarate [food 
acid]
366 potassium fumarate [food 
acid]
367 potassium fumarate [food 
acid]
368 ammonium fumarate [food 
acid]
375 niacin [colour retention 
agent]
380 ammonium citrate [food 
acid]
380 triammonium citrate 
[food acid]
381 ferric ammonium citrate [food acid]
385 calcium disodium 
hylenediaminetetraacetate [preservative]
400 alginic acid [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
401 sodium alginate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
402 potassium alginate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
403 ammonium alginate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
404 calcium alginate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
405 propylene glycol alginate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
406 agar [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
407 carrageenan [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
407a processed eucheuma 
seaweed [thickener, vegetable gum]
409 arabinogalactan 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
410 locust bean gum 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
412 guar gum [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
413 tragacanth [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
414 acacia [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
415 xanthan gum [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
416 karaya gum [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
418 gellan gum [thickener, 
vegetable gum]
420 sorbitol [humectant]421 mannitol [humectant]The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 542422 glycerin [humectant]
433 polysorbate 80 
[emulsifier]
435 polysorbate 60 
[emulsifier]
436 polysorbate 65 
[emulsifier]
440 pectin [vegetable gum]442 ammonium salts of 
phosphatidic acid [emulsifier]
444 sucrose acetate 
isobutyrate [emulsifier, stabiliser]
450 potassium pyrophosphate 
[mineral salts]
450 sodium acid pyrophosphate 
[mineral salts]
450 sodium pyrophosphate 
[mineral salts]
451 sodium tripolyphosphate 
[mineral salts]
452 potassium 
tripolyphosphate [mineral salts]
452 sodium metaphosphate, 
insoluble [mineral salts]
452 sodium polyphosphates, 
glassy [mineral salts]
452 potassium 
polymetaphosphate [mineral salts]
460 cellulose, 
microcrystalline and powdered [anti-caking agent]
461 methylcellulose 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
464 hydroxypropyl 
methylcellulose [thickener, vegetable gum]
465 methyl ethyl cellulose 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
466 sodium 
carboxymethylcellulose [thickener, vegetable gum]
470 magnesium stearate 
[emulsifier, stabiliser]
471 mono- and di-glycerides 
of fatty acids [emulsifier]
472a acetic and fatty acid 
esters of glycerol [emulsifier]
472b lactic and fatty acid 
esters of glycerol [emulsifier]
472c citric and fatty acid 
esters of glycerol [emulsifier]
472d tartaric and fatty 
acid esters of glycerol [emulsifier]
472e diacetyltartaric and 
fatty acid esters of glycerol [emulsifier]
473 sucrose esters of fatty 
acids [emulsifier]
475 polyglycerol esters of 
fatty acids [emulsifier]
476 polyglycerol esters of 
interesterified ricinoleic acid [emulsifier]
477 propylene glycol mono- 
and di-esters [emulsifier]
480 dioctyl sodium 
sulphosuccinate [emulsifier]
481 sodium oleyl lactylate 
[emulsifier]
481 sodium stearoyl lactylate 
[emulsifier]
482 calcium oleyl lactylate 
[emulsifier]
482 calcium stearoyl 
lactylate [emulsifier]
491 sorbitan monostearate 
[emulsifier]
492 sorbitan tristearate 
[emulsifier]
500 sodium bicarbonate 
[mineral salt]500 sodium carbonate [mineral 
salt]
501 potassium carbonates 
[mineral salt]
503 ammonium bicarbonate 
[mineral salt]
503 ammonium carbonate 
[mineral salt]
504 magnesium carbonate 
[anti-caking agent, mineral salt]
507 hydrochloric acid 
[acidity regulator]
508 potassium chloride 
[mineral salt]
509 calcium chloride [mineral 
salt]
510 ammonium chloride 
[mineral salt]
511 magnesium chloride 
[mineral salt]
512 stannous chloride [colour 
retention agent]
514 sodium sulphate [mineral 
salt]
515 potassium sulphate 
[mineral salt]
516 calcium sulphate [flour 
treatment agent, mineral salt]
518 magnesium sulphate 
[mineral salt]
519 cupric sulphate [mineral 
salt]
526 calcium hydroxide 
[mineral salt]
529 calcium oxide [mineral 
salt]
535 sodium ferrocyanide 
[anti-caking agent]
536 potassium ferrocyanide 
[anti-caking agent]
541 sodium aluminium 
phosphate, [acidic acidity regulator, emulsifier]
542 bone phosphate [anti-
caking agent]The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 543551 silicon dioxide [anti-
caking agent]
552 calcium silicate [anti-
caking agent]
553 talc [anti-caking agent]
554 sodium aluminosilicate 
[anti-caking agent]
556 calcium aluminium 
silicate [anti-caking agent]
558 bentonite [anti-caking 
agent]
559 kaolin [anti-caking 
agent]
570 stearic acid [anti-
caking agent]
575 gluconod-lactone [acidity 
regulator]
577 potassium gluconate 
[stabiliser]
578 calcium gluconate 
[acidity regulator]
579 ferrous gluconate [colour 
retention agent]
620 1-glutamic acid [flavour 
enhancer]
621 monosodium 1-glutamate 
[flavour enhancer]
622 monopotassium I-glutamate 
[flavour enhancer]
623 calcium di-l-glutamate 
[flavour enhancer]
624 monoammonium 1-glutamate 
[flavour enhancer]
625 magnesium di-l-glutamate 
[flavour enhancer]
627 disodium guanylate 
[flavour enhancer]
631 disodium inosinate 
[flavour enhancer]
635 disodium 51- 
ribonucleotides [flavour enhancer]
636 maltol [flavour enhancer]637 ethyl maltol [flavour 
enhancer]
640 glycine [flavour enhancer]641 1-leucine [flavour enhancer]
900 dimethylpolysiloxane 
[emulsifier, anti-foaming agent, anti-caking agent]
901 beeswax, white and yellow 
[glazing agent]
903 carnauba wax [glazing 
agent]
904 shellac, bleached 
[glazing agent]
905b petrolatum [glazing 
agent]
905a mineral oil, white 
[glazing agent]
914 oxidised polyethylene 
[humectant]
920 1-cysteine 
monohydrochloride [flour treatment agent]
925 chlorine [flour treatment 
agent]
926 chlorine dioxide [flour 
treatment agent]
928 benzoyl peroxide [flour 
treatment agent]
941 nitrogen [propellant]942 nitrous oxide 
[propellant]
950 acesulphame potassium 
[artificial sweetening substance]
951 aspartame [artificial 
sweetening substance]
952 sodium cyclamate 
[artificial sweetening substance]
952 cyclamic acid [artificial 
sweetening substance]
952 calcium cyclamate 
[artificial sweetening substance]
953 isomalt [humectant]954 sodium saccharin 
[artificial sweetening substance]
954 saccharin [artificial 
sweetening substance]
954 calcium saccharin [artificial sweetening substance]
 955 sucralose [artificial 
sweetening substance]
956 alitame [artificial 
sweetening substance]
957 thaumatin [flavour 
enhancer, artificial sweetening substance]
965 maltitol and maltitol 
syrup [humectant, stabiliser]
966 actitol [humectant]967 xylitol [humectant, 
stabiliser]
1001 choline salts and esters 
[emulsifier]
1100 amylases [flour treatment 
agent]
1101 proteases papain, 
bromelain, ficin [flour treatment agent, stabiliser, flavour enhancer]
1102 glucose oxidase 
[antioxidant]
1104 lipases [flavour 
enchancer]
1105 lysozyme [preservative]1200 polydextrose [humectant]1201 polyvinylpyrrolidone 
[stabiliser, clarifying agent, dispersing agent]
1202 polyvinylpolypyrrolidone 
[colour stabiliser]
1400 dextrin roasted starch 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1401 acid treated starch 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1402 alkaline treated starch 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1403 bleached starch 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1404 oxidised starch The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 544[thickener, vegetable 
gum]
1405 enzyme-treated starches 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1410 monostarch phosphate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1412 distarch phosphate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1413 phosphated distarch 
phosphate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1414 acetylated distarch 
phosphate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1420 starch acetate esterified 
with acetic anhydride [thickener, vegetable gum]
1421 starch acetate esterified 
with vinyl acetate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1422 acetylated distarch 
adipate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1440 hydroxypropyl starch 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1442 hydroxypropyl distarch phosphate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1450 starch sodium 
octenylsuccinate [thickener, vegetable gum]
1505 triethyl citrate 
[thickener, vegetable gum]
1518 triacetin [humectant]1520 propylene glycol 
[humectant]
1521 polyethylene glycol 
8000 [antifoaming agent]The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 545Basic pantry essentials
A well-stocked kitchen pantry is fundamental to good cooking; however, even the most basic 
of pantry ingredients can deliver a meal when it appears all is lost. This basic list is one that should be maintained regularly—because of the influences of a multicultural society, it may appear to some cooks as if I have left out some great staples. It is certainly up to the individual cook to add to this list based on their own experiences and influences—it may be that one cook’s anchovies are another cook’s fish sauce, but to include both these ingredients is to then provide a pantry list that moves from basic to gourmet. Remember to use this as a guide and then add a few of your own favourite pantry items that you could not live without. 
I have deliberately omitted from the list any pre-packaged foods relating to the school 
lunch box. This, in part, is due to the fact that pre-packaged foods are rapidly growing in number, as is the concern for the health benefits they may or may not offer. From a parent’s point of view, it is too subjective to decide what basic lunch box items should be included.
Basic packet food
Plain flour
Self-raising flourCustard powderCocoa powderCaster sugarBread crumbsPastaRiceCouscousStock cubesOnion soup mixCerealsBiscuitsCooking saltDried herbs (oregano and basil)PeppercornsSpices (cinnamon, nutmeg, chilli)UHT milkBasic canned/bottled food
Crushed tomatoes
Tomato pasteWhite beansChickpeasPasta sauceSoupBaked beansCondensed milkVegetable oilExtra virgin olive oilVanilla extract or essenceMayonnaiseTomato sauceSoy or tamari sauceWorcestershire sauceWhite vinegarBalsamic vinegarJamPeanut butterHoneyMustardCurry pasteValue adding
Cornflour
Drinking chocolateCooking chocolatePacket cake mix (for emergencies)Oyster sauceChilli sauceSesame oilCoconut creamRice noodlesAnchoviesCapersGherkinsBlack olivesMuesli barsDried fruitsSoft brown sugarMaple syrupMexican salsaCorn chipsCajun spiceCanned fruitsCanola or olive oil sprayThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 546EssEntial kitchEn EquipmEnt
Knives
Knives are among the most essential pieces of kitchen equipment, and a basic selection is 
vital to setting up your kitchen. The three styles mentioned below are a great starting point, but the more experienced you become, the more styles you may feel you need. For example, the cook’s knife is fine for slicing roasts, filleting fish and portioning steaks, although knives specific to each of these jobs are available. What you spend on these knives is personal, depending on budget, but remember, the most expensive knives may not necessarily be the best for your hand size and wrist strength or be the most pleasing aesthetically. 
Cook’s knife—is a large blade used for daily cutting and slicing of most ingredients. 
Available in 8-in. (20-cm), 10-in. (25-cm) and 12-in. (30-cm) blades. Only one is needed, not one of each size.
Serrated knife—is a must for cutting bread, cakes, tomatoes and passionfruit.Paring knife—is a small utility knife, and a must for all the small, fiddly jobs where 
the size of a cook’s knife is excessive. Used for cutting fruit and vegetables, scoring tomato skin or removing stems and seeds, etc.
Measuring equipM ent
A selection of measuring cups, spoons, jugs and weight scales is important, especially if 
you love baking and dessert making. I suggest one set of graduated measuring cups (metal or plastic), one set of graduated measuring spoons and at least one measuring jug of 1- to 2-litre capacity. Electric or not, measuring scales are a very handy addition to the kitchen. 
stovetop
Saucepans—are a stovetop’s best friend. There are many different shapes and sizes, and 
buying in sets is not necessarily the best option. Keeping your budget in mind, and remembering that if you buy quality the first time, you’ll never have to buy them again, look for a heavy-based style of saucepan of 1–4-litre capacity with a tight-fitting lid and an ovenproof handle. Then decide how many you think you may need. Two might get you started, and then add more over time. Note: keep in mind that induction cooktops are the way of the future and if you are looking to upgrade your kitchen soon, then it could be wise to invest in induction cookware (which works equally as well on a gas hob).
Sauté pans—also known as ‘skillets’, these can have a nonstick coating and be made 
from cast iron, stainless steel or aluminium. Professionals lean towards cast iron, especially for grilling steaks and small roasts, as well as for doing a perfect ‘tarte Tatin’. However, such is the technology of nonstick pans that even professional cooks consider these for their kitchens. Ranging in size from 6 in. (15 cm) to massive diameters, if a large sauté pan is asked for, they will be talking of a 12-in. (30-cm) pan. Always look for pans with an ovenproof handle; especially good if meat has been seared and needs a few minutes in the oven. Two to three pans of varying sizes are a good start.
Wok—it is said that up to 70 per cent of kitchens in Australia now have a wok. Stir-
frying is extremely popular because of the time it takes to cook a meal. Flat bottomed woks are ideal if you have an electric or induction cooktop; round-bottomed woks are better suited to a gas cooktop. Like sauté pans, woks now come in all types of metal and coating; the cheap carbon steel wok from Asian supermarkets is still the most popular. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 547Stock pot—it may seem odd to list this as a basic piece of equipment for the kitchen, 
and to some point that’s true; this is an optional addition. However, consider this—if you 
have people over for dinner and you plan on serving soup, stew, bolognaise sauce or the like, a big pot would be needed. The fact that it’s called a stock pot and you don’t plan on making stock is irrelevant. Also, this is a brilliant pot for cooking pasta in, as well as using as a deep-fryer. 
Ovens and Ovenware
Ovens—accurate oven temperatures are important, especially for baking. Unfortunately, the 
thermostat is often the first thing that breaks in an oven. Ten degrees out and that delicate baked custard could resemble omelette when the timer goes off. The best solution is to get to know your oven, or invest in an oven thermometer. The more expensive solution is to call in a specialist, to check and/or replace your thermostat.
Ovens—conventional ovens have a gas burner or electric element(s) heating from the 
bottom. As the heat rises, it creates different temperature areas or zones within the oven. The hottest area is at the top, the centre is moderate, while the coolest part is at the bottom of the oven. This can limit the amount of food that can be cooked at the one time or cause problems with baked goods if the oven is overloaded. 
Gas ovens can cook at a lower temperature than electric, while electric ovens can 
produce a higher heat.
Self-cleaning ovens are certainly recommended for those cooks who bake often. These 
ovens cost more but merely need wiping out after the cleaning phase. Basically the oven is set to clean, the temperature rises to about 500ºC, vaporising any built-up matter and turning it into dust. The oven then cools and simply needs to be wiped out to leave a sparkling clean oven ready to use—brilliant.
The following types of oven, less common in the domestic market, are sometimes referred 
to as ‘zoned ovens’. 
Fan-assisted ovens (available in gas and electric) operate like conventional ovens but 
with the addition of a fan at the rear. As the heat rises from the bottom, it’s circulated by the fan to create a more even temperature. The fan can be turned on or off so, for example, a pie can be baked using the fan-assisted function, and then its top browned using the oven conventionally. 
Fan-forced or convection ovens have an in-built fan that circulates heated air around 
the oven. This results in an even temperature throughout the entire oven, allowing all shelves to be used simultaneously. Fan-forced ovens heat more quickly, can cook food at lower temperatures, and use up to 35 per cent less energy than conventional ovens. They are available in electric only.
Combination cookers combine convection and microwave cooking in the same oven. The 
advantage of these ovens is that food can be browned or crisped on the outside using convection cooking, while the microwave energy reduces the actual cooking time. 
See also Oven temperatures conversion chart.Roasting pan—you need at least one large roasting pan for, well, roasts.Casserole/lasagne dish—a deep rectangular or square ovenproof dish (glass, ceramic or 
cast iron).
Gratin dish—can be a ceramic multi-functional dish for dishes like potato gratin, 
nachos, quiche or pasta bake. The right gratin dish could double up as a pie dish as well.The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 548Pizza tray—at least one, even two, of these is handy, as more and more, people tend 
to find making their own pizza enjoyable. Dark, matte-finished pizza trays are best for the 
domestic oven, as they absorb the heat better and give a better base colour. Remember, domestic ovens don’t produce the base heat of a wood-fired oven.
Cake tins—at least one to begin with, maybe a round one, possibly springform. The more 
cakes you plan to make, the more you’ll need to add to your collection—choose from round, square, rectangular, solid and springform as well as those made from silicon. A loaf tin is not an essential start-up piece of bake ware, but could be considered the next thing you buy.
Baking trays—are very handy for every thing from reheating bread to baking pavlova 
(baking trays are known as ‘baking sheets’ in the USA). I recommend black, nonstick ones with a very small (5-mm) lip around the edge. I will also mention slice trays here as well; one of those rectangular 23-cm x 18-cm x 2.5-cm one-sided trays is fantastic for baking a variety of sweet and savoury dishes. 
Utensils
When buying utensils, try not to hoard, only buy what you think you will need, then add, 
only if you think you will use the item. Too many gadgets crowd your drawers only to end up at a garage sale 5 years later.
the final list
Knives—20-cm cook’s knife x 
1, serrated knife x 1, paring knife x 1
Saucepans—with ovenproof 
handles and tight-fitting lids x 2 or 3
Saute pans—with ovenproof 
handles x 1 or 2
Wok x 1 (depends on style of 
cooktop—see Wok)
Stock pot—5–10-litre 
(optional but handy if cooking loads of soup and pasta) x 1
Measuring—set of measuring 
cups x 1, set of measuring spoons x 1,  1–2-litre measuring jug x 1
Scales x 1 (weight measures 
up to 5 kg in 10–20-g increments)
Roasting tray x 1Casserole/lasagne dish x 1Gratin dish x 1 (ceramic)Pizza tray x 1 (large)Muffin tray x 1 (6- or 
12-muffin capacity)
Cake tin x 1 (23-cm 
springform
Cake rack x 1Wooden spoons x 2Metal spoon x 1 (for 
serving)
Metal slotted spoon x 1Ladle x 1Vegetable peeler x 1Can opener x 1Sieve x 1Colander x 1Lettuce spinner x 1Mixing bowls x 3 (stainless 
steel)
Whisk x 1Grater x 1Pastry brush x 1Tongs x 2 (1 with long 
handles)
Electric mixer x 1The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 549Cooking teChniques 
Bain marie, also known as a ‘water bath’, is a method for cooking food such as custards 
and other delicate egg or meat dishes. The food is placed in a dish that is in turn placed in a container of water (usually filled to halfway up the side of the dish), then cooked in an oven or in some cases on the stovetop at a low temperature. The idea is that the water prevents dry heat from scorching the outer parts of the food and produces steam to gently cook the food evenly through to the centre. A cloth, paper towel or newspaper is often placed at the base of the container before the water is added—as insulation to help maintain an even temperature. Bain marie can also refer to the device used to keep food hot at (hopefully) safe temperatures for long periods of time—seen anywhere from cheap snack bars and chicken shops to dubious all-you-can-eat smorgasbords and the more controlled hotel buffets.
Bake is to cook food in the dry heat of an oven. Note that the degree of dryness in the 
oven is determined by the food that is being baked. This means that if a batch of biscuits is in the oven, and then a roast is thrown in as well, the moisture or steam produced from the roast can and most probably will affect the outcome of the biscuits, both in texture and flavour.
Tips for barbequing:
* Barbecue tools are essential and should be maintained with the great care you would give 
a good knife. After use, wash the tools in hot soapy water, rinse and dry well. Store in the 
kitchen drawer or allocated area under your barbecue.
* A wire brush and a long-handled scraper (a paint scraper for windows will do) are 
excellent for cleaning the grill and scraping the hotplate, especially when there is a large build-up on the flat plate. A quality wire brush is essential—spare no expense as the cheaper ones tend to lose their wire bristles which may get left on the grill plate and ultimately end up in the food, undetected and dangerous in small windpipes.
* Paper towel should always be at the ready to wipe down hot or cold barbecues and the 
surrounding area.
* The best time to clean a barbecue is while it is still quite hot. The built-up oil and 
grease is easier to remove when hot. It may not mean doing it immediately after cooking, but for a good clean, turn the barbecue on, get it hot, turn it off and start cleaning.
* As tempting as it is to not scrape down after cooking, residual food and fat become a 
serious attraction to rodents, cockroaches and birds.
* Utilise the wok burner on the side of many barbecues to boil small potatoes and then toss 
in butter and parsley. Or have a pot of hot water on to cook beans or broccoli.
* When cooking red meats (beef, veal and lamb), leave the meat, covered, on the kitchen 
bench and bring to room temperature. This will reduce the cooking time as well as ensuring a more evenly cooked piece of meat.
* White meats (chicken, pork and seafood) should remain refrigerated until cooking as the 
protein is more delicate than in red meats.
* Only add salt to meat just before it is to go on the grill. Seasoning with salt after it 
is cooked is okay, but the meat should rest and seasoning afterwards can draw out moisture. Adding salt too far in advance will draw out the meat’s natural juices and dry it out when it is cooked.
* There is a big difference between well done and cooked beyond recognition. It is entirely 
possible to have a juicy well-done steak—juicy as in moist not blood juicy. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 550* Buy a meat thermometer/probe to help you produce the best cooked steaks and roasts. 
It takes the guesswork out of how long to cook meat by taking a reading of the internal 
temperatures—rare = 35ºC, medium rare = 45ºC, medium = 55ºC, medium well done = 65ºC, and well done = 75ºC. 
* Marinating meat before cooking adds flavour and tenderises. Green papaya and kiwifruit 
both contain an enzyme that tenderises tougher cuts of meat and octopus. Add to the marinade or rub the meat with the fruit no more than 2 hours before it is to be cooked. Any longer than this and the enzymes will break the meat fibres down too much and make it mush. Marinate red meats overnight or for at least 4 hours; pork and chicken benefit from a 4-hour marinate; while fish needs only to marinate for about 20–30 minutes.
* Salads for a barbecue are many and varied. The best tips for any salad are to keep it 
refrigerated until ready to serve and then add the dressing just before it hits the table. Do not add the salad dressing too soon or the acid (vinegar or lemon juice) will begin to wilt the vegetables or lettuce. A few exceptions to this rule are potato, pasta or rice salad.
* When making lettuce-based salads, it is not only important to wash and drain the 
lettuce, but to dry it properly. Any water left on the lettuce leaves only serves to dilute the dressing, which will end up at the bottom of the salad bowl not evenly coating the ingredients. Other than quality barbecue tools and a sharp knife, most professional cooks would agree that a lettuce spinner is vital in all kitchens—available at all kitchenware supply stores.
* Professional cooks have a catchphrase they all work by—Mis en place—which roughly 
translates as pre-preparation. In other words, have everything you need on hand before you start to barbecue—even if you don’t think it will get used. This step saves extra trips to the kitchen—during which time your food may burn. Make good use of the side table attached to the barbecue, fill it with condiments, utensils and paper towel.
* Some foods, like fish with white soft flesh, tomatoes and cevapcici (skinless sausages) can 
fall apart, burn or stick on the grill. To avoid this, brush a piece of foil with oil, add the meat or vegetable, seal into a package, fold at the corners, and cook until done. 
* Pay attention to the temperature of your barbecue. Try and keep the temperature even and 
adjust it for varying outdoor weather conditions.
* Include a good basting brush in your barbecue tool kit. The best one for the job has 
silicon bristles which don’t melt with the high heat, unlike the straw-like bristles of a pastry brush. 
* To lessen the amount of oil you cook in, use an oil spray—either vegetable or olive 
oil—and lightly spray the food, then season and grill; there will be less residual oil on the barbecue potentially causing a flare up.
* Do not be tempted to constantly turn and play with the food. Cook on one side for 2–4 
minutes, turn and cook for half the time on the second side. However, if the meat is rounded and marinated, then turning constantly will give it a ‘spit roast’ effect and it will constantly baste itself; this will also stop the marinade from burning. 
* Keep annoying bugs away while barbequing by burning citronella candles or garden torches. 
They also look beautiful and provide the perfect ambience for backyard dinner parties.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 551Bard is a technique similar to larding, designed to add fat to an otherwise lean cut 
of meat. Fat (bacon rashers or pork fat) is draped, wrapped or tied around a piece of meat. 
Poultry and terrines are often barded as a means of self-basting; a terrine mould is lined with bacon, filled and then cooked in a bain marie in the oven. Game birds like pheasant and quail do well covered with fat in this way; to brown the skin, the fat should be removed a few minutes before the bird is taken from the oven. A simple meat loaf can also benefit from being wrapped in bacon, keeping the contents moist and tasty.
Blanch is to plunge food into boiling or simmering water for a very short period of 
time, so it is only partly cooked. The food is then drained and refreshed in iced water. Blanching enhances the natural properties of the food and is sometimes done in preparation for further cooking. The time it takes to blanch food depends on the size and type of food. 
Blind baking refers to the technique of baking unfilled flans or pie cases. Tarts or 
flans that are to be filled require the raw pastry to be lined with baking paper and weighed down with dried beans, rice or specific ceramic pie weights before being baked. This process ensures the pastry doesn’t become curved (convex) due to a build-up of steam between the pastry and the base of the tin. Once cooked, the weights are removed and the pastry returned to the oven briefly to dry out. 
Boil is to cook food in boiling liquid (at a temperature no less than 100°C). For a 
rolling boil, the surface of the liquid must continuously rise and break.
Braise is a method of cooking meat in liquid. The term braising is usually reserved for 
larger cuts of meat, while stewing is used for smaller cuts of meat. As a general rule, add enough liquid to reach halfway up the item being braised. Although a recipe may specify the cooking time, my advice is to start checking the meat with an hour to go and possibly every 15 minutes after that, so as not to overcook it. Braised vegetables take 45 minutes, never longer. See also Meat, How to cook, Braising.
Broast is not a cooking technique but a trademarked application from the US-based 
Broaster Company, available only to the food service industry (hence the description ‘broasted’ will only ever be seen on a restaurant menu). It is a system that pressure-cooks chicken while frying it and includes a marinating process. This method locks in the juices while locking out the oil.
Broil is a US term meaning to expose food to a high heat, either on a hotplate or under 
an oven broiler or grill. An oven broiler is the toaster section in an oven with the heat source directly above but not touching the food. In the restaurant industry these overhead broilers are called ‘salamanders’. 
Candy is a US term that refers to cooking foods in sugar for preservation and flavour. 
It can also simply mean to coat in sugar. 
Caramelise is to cook sugar or the natural sugars within food to a light brown or 
caramel colour. White sugar caramelises at 160°C. 
Casserole can mean an ovenproof dish or container with a lid. More importantly it 
refers to a meal cooked inside this container. Commonly, cuts of meat with tough connective tissue are cooked slowly with vegetables and liquid until the connective tissue breaks down and becomes soft and gelatinous.
Chargrill is short for ‘charcoal grill’ and means to cook over the high heat produced 
by burning coals; also known as ‘char-broil’ in the US. The smoky characteristics that define chargrilling are as prominent as the grill lines left on the food being cooked. A ribbed grill plate leaves the same markings as a chargrill but does not add the flavour. Both methods are considered a healthy way to cook—as the fats drain away, basting the meat as they drain to leave it succulent. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 552Coddle is to cook eggs gently in water at just below boiling point or by covering them 
with boiling water long enough for the whites to barely set. The term can also apply to 
cooking fruit.
Confit is to cook food in its own fat or juices, then preserve it in the very same fat 
or liquid. (Although you can make confit of garlic, lemon or other fruits by cooking the food slowly in oils, fruit juices and/or with salt.) Confit of duck, goose and pork is a specialty of the region of Gascony in France where the meat is first rubbed with salt—to extract juices and almost cure the meat—before it is slowly cooked then sealed and preserved in its own fat. 
Cure is a method of preserving food. The most common method is salt-curing where salt 
is added to meat which is then left to stand for a period of time to draw off the water content. What remains is a semi-dried salty tasting piece of meat. Salted beef and corned beef are examples of cured meat. Meat is dry-cured when the salt mix is applied to the meat, which is refrigerated, then washed before being cooked. Hams and bacon are examples of dry-cured meat. Sugar-curing is when sugar is added to the salt mix to sweeten the food.
Deep-fry is to cook in large quantities of fat, usually oil. The principle behind deep-
frying is that the high temperature of the oil immediately seals the food so it cooks crisp on the outside without getting oily inside. Fortunately, the days when deep-frying meant slapping food into a hot smoking vat of scalding animal fat are long gone. Successful deep-frying requires careful monitoring of temperatures, choice of oil, straining or disposal of oils, and cleaning of equipment. The temperature at which to deep-fry food depends on size and quantity. As a general rule, 180°–195°C will do. Keep in mind that the oil temperature drops, in some cases significantly, when food is added. Don’t overcrowd the pan as the temperature will drop too quickly and the food won’t be sealed, becoming soggy and oily instead of crisp. There is no single ‘best’ oil for deep-frying, but oils such as cottonseed, vegetable, soy, corn, safflower, peanut and canola are often recommended because they have a higher smoking point. Oil smokes at the point when it begins to decompose and create the nasty-smelling compound acreolein. Lard or animal fat is no longer considered appropriate for deep-frying because of the high fat content and low smoking point. 
Deglaze means not getting out another pan to make the sauce. Remove the food (usually 
meat) from the pan and set to one side to rest, covered with foil. Place the pan back on the heat and add wine, flavoured vinegar, stock, cream or even water, then stir to lift any cooked-on juices that have browned in the base of the pan.
Double boil is a cooking method that avoids the direct fierceness of naked heat. 
This is a controlled way to melt or thicken food like chocolate, lemon curd, sabayon and hollandaise, to name a few. Bring water to the boil in a saucepan then place a heatproof bowl containing the ingredients over the pan of water. Usually the heat source is turned to very low or removed altogether after the water has boiled, allowing the residual heat to do the job. Patience is the key to success when double boiling.
Double boilers can be purchased as just that—a saucepan with a curved insert (with 
a handle). But a regular saucepan and a heatproof bowl larger than the saucepan will work equally as well.
Glaze refers to any stock that has been reduced to a gelatinous consistency. This 
sticky reduction can only be made from fresh stock; if you try to make it from commercial stock, you’d be left with a small blob of dark salt. Glaze is used to strengthen the flavour of or thicken sauces, as a coating for meats or terrines, and as the base for a sauce which then has cream or butter added. Commercial veal glaze may be found in specialty food shops, delis or food halls (be prepared to pay premium prices). Glaze may also refer to brushing The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 553products to be baked with milk, egg whites or egg wash (milk and eggs) to give them a glossy 
surface.
Grill is to cook with the heat source either beneath or above the food. If the heat 
source is beneath, food is cooked on a grill plate or griddle, either flat or ribbed. If the heat source is above the food, the method refers to using an oven grill or broiler. Here, the element does not make contact with the food. Grilling is often referred to as broiling in the US. See also Chargrill.
Indirect grilling is a term used mainly to refer to the preparation of ribs. Like par-
baking, it sets the ribs up for their final grill session. The heat comes from the outside or one side of the charcoal grill while the middle section or larger portion of the grill remains off. The meat is placed in the centre of the grill or to the off side, with a bowl of water underneath to catch the drips and to produce steam to help the meat slowly tenderise. The hot coals can be sprinkled with wood chips for a smoky flavour. The meat is covered and cooked until tender. It is then ready for saucing and grilling.
Jug is an old English cooking technique. Jugged hare involves the hare being placed in 
a tall jug, that is set in a pan of water, and cooked slowly over a long period. The blood is drained before cooking and reserved and (with its natural clotting abilities) used to the thicken the sauce. Jugged kippers is a favoured method to avoid the house smelling of fish. The kippers’ heads and tails are removed, they are placed in a jug, head-end first, and boiling water is poured on top. They are then covered with a lid or plate and left to stand for 4–5 minutes.
Liaison is a mixture of cream and egg yolks used to thicken white sauces and soups. It 
must be heated very gently. (As the word derives from the French, meaning ‘to bind’, it can also be used to refer to other thickening processes.)
Microwave can refer to the implement or the cooking technique. The first microwave oven 
was built in 1947. It was nearly 6 feet tall, weighed more than 750 pounds and cost US$5000 to buy. Now these compact metal boxes are standard-issue equipment in most households in developed countries. Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation that is very similar to sunlight and radio waves. Microwave energy occurs when an electric current flows through a conductor. Thanks to Dr Percy Lebaron Spencer, whose chocolate bar melted in his pocket while he was toying with a new experiment which had nothing to do with food, we now have the microwave oven. There are many and varied books on cooking in a microwave, but many avid cooks like me see it simply as the best tool for reheating or melting food rather than a way to cook dishes from scratch. No doubt microwave cooks beg to differ.
Microwave cooking
Metal and foil
Metal objects should not be used in a microwave as the metal reflects the microwave energy. Any plates or dishes that have silver or gold trim will cause an electrical discharge in the microwave, potentially harming the oven. Some butters are wrapped in a silver packet lined with paper, and these will also spark and ignite. Always place food in appropriate microwave-safe dishes.
Be wary of plastic ties on bags when reheating as the tie may have a wire strip running 
through the centre which can ignite.
Aluminium foil can be used in the microwave if you follow some simple rules. Use only 
in small amounts to prevent excess heat from penetrating some of the more delicate areas of The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 554chicken wings, ends of fish and cakes. It is also important to ensure the foil doesn’t touch 
the sides of the oven.
Plastic, ceramic and china dishes, and plastic wrap
Not all dishes are microwave-safe—if unsure, test the dish by sitting a microwave-safe glass filled with water next to the dish to be tested and microwave on high for 1 minute. If the testing dish is warm and the water in the glass is still cool, then the dish is not microwave-proof. The dish being tested should remain cold for suitable microwave cooking.
Plastic wrap is microwave safe. However, extended periods of time can distort the 
shape of the wrap and form a dangerous airtight seal over the food. Carefully lift the wrap away from you to avoid a steam burn. The use of a pair of tongs is recommended or prick the plastic wrap with a fork to release the pressure, allowing the steam to escape before unwrapping.
Cleaning and odours
A microwave should be cleaned immediately after use, especially when there is spillage or food has exploded. If there are some lingering stains and odours from cooking, then try placing 500 ml water and the juice of 1 lemon or 1 tablespoon vanilla essence in a 1-litre microwave-safe bowl or jug and heat for 7–8 minutes on high. Wipe out the condensation and any stains with it. The microwave should smell fresh and clean.
Reheating
Impatience is the biggest reason for food not being reheated properly (hot on the outside and cold in the middle). It seems that society has become so time-poor that even the speed of a microwave is not fast enough. For a more even reheating of food, lower the power on the microwave oven to medium, cover with plastic wrap, poke 1 or 2 holes in the plastic and heat for longer than normal. Once reheated, let the food stand for 30 seconds before removing the plastic wrap to avoid a steam burn.
Tips
* To soften butter, place in a microwave-safe container and heat for 30 seconds on medium-
low (30 per cent). Cream cheese is softened also at medium-low (30 per cent) for 1 minute 
(remember to remove its foil casing).
* Piercing some foods that have a skin is vital to prevent a steam build-up and an ultimate 
explosion in the oven. Potatoes, tomatoes, sausages, chicken skin and eggs (if being poached) are the main ingredients that need a few prods from a skewer.
* Melting chocolate is done at medium (50 per cent) power. Chocolate is deceptive when 
melted as it holds its shape. To look at it, you may think it needs more time when in fact it may have already melted. As a guide, for every 100 g chocolate, heat for 2 minutes.
* Heat plates for a dinner party by stacking 4 plates with a damp piece of paper towel 
between each plate and heating on high for 2–3 minutes. 
* Damp facial cloths like those offered in Chinese restaurants are great for your next 
dinner party, especially if food that requires the guests to use their fingers is offered. To do this, wet the cloths, fold in half and roll up, place on a plate and heat for 5 minutes on high. Remember to warn the guests that the cloths will be hot and it is best to offer them the cloth by unravelling it with a pair of tongs and handing it to them so it loses some heat.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 555Pan-broil is to cook in a nonstick or ribbed pan on the stovetop with little or preferably 
no oil and no lid. Any fats that may build up during cooking are drained as the food cooks. The idea is for the meat or vegetable to cook quickly over high heat, so food to be pan-broiled is cut thinner or smaller than usual to help it cook quickly. 
Pan-fry is also known as ‘saute’ and means to cook in oil or fat in a pan on the 
stovetop with no lid. 
Pan-sear refers to searing or browning meat (often steak, chicken or fish) in a pan 
before finishing in the oven. 
Par-bake refers to breads and occasionally biscuits that have been proven, then partly 
baked (to hold the shape) and frozen so the home cook can finish the baking. Different levels of par-baked bread are available. Some are frozen immediately after the proving stage, allowing the home or commercial cook to do all the baking. Others are 90 per cent baked and sold at room temperature so that they only require 5 minutes of final baking time at home. Par-baking is also used in reference to spare ribs that are partly cooked before being finished on the grill. 
Parboil see Blanch.Pasteurise is a heat treatment used in some countries to kill harmful bacteria in 
dairy products and some alcoholic drinks (beer, wine, cider). It extends the life of milk, purportedly without affecting its taste and nutrient value. Purists and admirers of raw milk cheese argue that, although this process may kill bad bacteria, it also kills good bacteria and changes the molecular make-up and therefore the taste of the milk and what is made from it. (I should know, I lived on a farm, and on winter mornings would squirt warm cow’s milk directly into my mouth. As for bacteria, it’s hard to say if any of us became sick after I defrosted my hands in the bucket of very warm milk before I brought the pail back to the house.) 
Poach is the delicate process of cooking food in a liquid set below simmering point 
(approximately 75–80°C). The liquid (water, stock, sugar syrup, alcohol) should never come to the boil. The idea is to preserve the natural shape of the food and retain a delicate flavour. The foods most commonly poached are eggs, fish, meat, poultry and fruit. 
Poêlé is a method of slow-cooking meat or vegetables in butter in a covered pan in 
the oven at a temperature hot enough to braise the food, yet not so hot as to colour the butter solids. Sometimes wrongly referred to as ‘butter roasting’, ‘pot roasting’ or ‘white braising’.
Pot roasting is a similar method to braising, only it is used for larger joints or cuts 
of meat. The meat (e.g. beef topside, oyster blade or fresh silverside in a 1.5–2-kg piece) is cooked in a deep, covered pot with very little or no liquid. The meat is first seared or browned in a little butter or oil, then placed on a bed of browned root vegetables, or bones and vegetables. The pot is tightly covered and the meat cooked gently. A pot roast may be cooked in a pot, a pressure cooker or in the oven. The small amount of liquid and the vegetables together produce sufficient steam to make this moist heat method ideal for the medium-tender roasting cuts. Resist adding too much liquid or it will become a stew.
Red cooking is associated with Chinese cooking, a method where meat (often pork, but 
also beef and chicken) is braised in a soy sauce-based liquid to tenderise and colour it a dark reddish-brown. Other ingredients include ginger, onion, sweet rice wine, Chinese five-spice and powder sugar. A cheap form of red cooking might simply mean rubbing the meat with sugar, salt and red food colouring, then slow roasting to produce a piece of meat that looks very red on the outside but normal on the inside. 
Reduce is to cook a liquid down to a fraction of its original volume in order to The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 556enhance and concentrate its flavour or to thicken it. Don’t add salt before reducing as the 
salty flavour will be concentrated too. Creams are thickened by reduction; a stock can be reduced by many times its volume to produce a glaze. 
Refresh, although not technically a cooking method, is often done after blanching or 
parboiling. Food is removed from the water, then placed in iced water to halt the cooking process and lock in the colour. It is also known as ‘shock’. 
Render is to reduce the fat content of meat. This can be done in a pan, in the oven, in 
water or on the grill, as long as heat is used to remove the fat. Rendering is best achieved at a lower temperature.
Roast is to cook meat or vegetables in the dry heat of the oven; see also Bake.Sauté see Pan-fry.Scald is to heat a liquid (often milk) to a point just before boiling. If you boil 
milk, you will burn the proteins and the result will be scorched milk. Milk used to be scalded to kill bacteria, but we now have pasteurisation to do that job. These days, a recipe may suggest scalding milk to make working with other ingredients easier (for instance, to help added ingredients to dissolve or melt) or simply out of habit. 
Sear is to seal the surface of meat or fish with a high heat in a pan or on a grill, 
with or without oil, either as a style of cooking (for example, for fresh tuna) or as a first step before further cooking. The idea is that it locks in the juices, although the validity of this theory is now being tested and questioned.
Shallow-fry is similar to pan-frying, only using a little more fat. The excess fat is 
then poured from the pan after the cooking. 
Simmer is to cook in a liquid just below boiling point, at a temperature of 85°C, 
when small rolling bubbles start to break the surface. The great recipe tautology is the instruction to ‘gently simmer’ because ‘simmering hard’ would mean to boil. 
Smoking means flavouring of meat and vegetables via a hot- or cold-smoking method. 
Smoking is also what many professional cooks do as a coping mechanism when faced with the pressure of service: the smoke is an aromatic blend of nicotine and tobacco, but sometimes other herbs and spices are thrown into the mix. 
Smother is to add a small amount of liquid to a food that has been sautéed. The pan is 
then covered with a lid, the temperature reduced and the food cooked over a low heat until done. 
Steaming is considered the healthiest way to cook vegetables, as there is no agitation 
in boiling water and the steam doesn’t dilute or remove in great amounts the nutrients within the food. Meat, fish, rice and fruit can also be steamed. A liquid, usually water, at boiling point (105°C) or higher produces steam which is caught in a lidded receptacle (make sure the food stays out of the water or it will be boiled rather than steamed). Steam burns can be nasty, so be careful when lifting the lid on the steamer, open it away from the face or arms to allow the severest heat to escape before removing the lid entirely. 
Stewing is a slow wet-cooking method where food and liquid are cooked in a pot or 
pan and allowed to simmer for long enough to be completely tender. Although very similar in technique to braising, meat to be stewed is cut smaller, usually diced. Fruits and vegetables can also be stewed but pay close attention to the time required for cooking, as fruit will only take a fraction of the time it takes to stew meat.
Stir-fry commonly refers to wok-cooking, although frying in a very hot pan for a very 
short time can also be referred to as stir-frying. The key to stir-frying is the ‘stir’—the food is kept moving at all times in a very hot pan. The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 557Tips for sT ir-frying:
* Never overload the wok with food. You’ll lose the intense heat and ultimately ending up 
with a ‘stir-braise’. A wok is designed for small amounts of food at a time, especially on 
domestic hotplates which don’t usually produce enough heat for ideal stir-frying.
* A good peanut oil is recommended for stir-frying. 
* Wok implements are vital tools for wok cooking. I prefer the ‘hok’: the ladle-shaped, 
long-handled implement, so I can scoop and turn the food. It is also very handy when it comes to serving, whether soup, noodles or vegetables. The flat, shovel-like lifter is good for moving the food around the wok, ensuring it is cooked quickly.
* Always heat the wok to very hot before adding the oil, then quickly add the remaining 
ingredients. If you heat the oil as the wok heats, you’ll burn the oil.
* Some books tell you to heat the wok until it is ‘smoking’, then add the oil—right they 
are.
* If you have a traditional thin metal Chinese wok, do the following every now and again 
to help keep the wok sealed and prevent food from sticking. Heat the wok until it’s almost white-hot (watch as the bottom of the wok begins to turn white), remove from the heat, cool slightly and carefully wipe with a cloth, then return the wok to the heat and again ensure an intense heat is produced before adding oil and the ingredients.
* If you have an electric wok, a nonstick wok or you’re using a pan or skillet, the smoking 
point is irrelevant. Instead add a few droplets of water and watch as they form small, tight balls that roll around. This is when it is hot enough. Just remember to remove or evaporate the water before adding the oil.
Sweating means cooking vegetables in a little oil or butter over a medium heat, in a covered 
pot or pan, to release moisture and intensify the flavour. Sweating is also a method of cooking chefs, usually in the middle of summer, and usually in a small kitchen with no air flow. For best results, wrap them in long-sleeved jackets, long pants, thick socks and steel-capped boots, and reduce valuable heat loss by covering their heads with a silly looking hat. Pressure cook for 12–14 hours until sweating profusely. Best served with a beer! 
White braising is a method seldom used today because of the time it takes. It is 
designed for meat, such as veal, lamb, kid and other young animals. The meat is cooked on the stovetop in a brown stock which is reduced to a glaze and topped up 3 times. It is then packed snugly into a baking tray and more brown stock is added (to cover about half the meat). The tray is covered and the meat cooked in the oven until tender. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 558Basic preserving
Preserving can mean many things to many cooks on many levels. The beginner cook may not 
realise that by simply chopping leftover fresh herbs, placing them in an airtight container and freezing them is a method of preserving, and a great one at that. A Greek friend of mine who is a great cook employs this method and has an abundance of fresh, frozen herbs ready to be part of in the many traditional dishes she cooks. 
From the simple preserving method of freezing to the more complex array of jams, 
jellies, chutneys, pickles, mustards, fruit candies, sauces, bottled fruits, smoked, cured and dehydrated, preserved foods is a ritual that in a few short generations went from a necessity born from recessions and depressions to a seldom practised art form reserved for passionate stall holders at farmers’ markets.
In this book there are some classic recipes for relish, marmalade, jam and chutney, so 
I’ve included a guide to basic preserving.
Basic equipment
* Heavy-based stainless steel saucepan or pot 
* Set of plastic funnels
* Sugar thermometer
* Cutting board
* 20-cm cook’s knife and paring knife
* Strong, heatproof jug 
* Labels for dating and naming
* Measuring equipment—cup, liquid, weight and spoon measures
* Several wooden spoons
* Strainer
* Storing jars and bottles with lids
sterilising
Use glass jars with matching lids. Jars need to be washed in soapy water, rinsed well and 
drained (do not use a towel to dry). Then place, right way up, in a cold oven and turn the oven temperature to 150ºC for 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and fill with the hot preserves to be bottled. Metal screw-top lids to the jars need to be sterilised in the same manner. 
Boiling the jars in water for 10 minutes then drying in a cool oven (110ºC) is another 
method for sterilising. Rubber seals, corks and lids should also be immersed in boiling water for a few seconds.
packing
* Jams, marmalades, relishes, chutneys and sauces need to be packed while the mixture is 
still warm and the sterilised jars are hot from the oven. Leave to cool covered with a clean 
cloth. Once cool, cover the preserves with a circle of waxed paper or jam covers available from supermarkets.
* Jam, marmalade, relish and chutney jars should be filled right to the top.
* Sauces should be filled to within 2 cm of the rim.
* Pickles can be added cold to a jar as the high concentration of vinegar will inhibit 
mould.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 559* Once packed, wipe the jars or bottles and dry them thoroughly before attaching labels 
marked with the name of the preserve as well as the ‘packed on’ date. 
Storing
* Light has an adverse effect on bottled preserves and it is therefore recommended to store 
them in a cool, dark and dry place.
* Should you live in a wet, humid climate, then it is best to keep the preserves in the 
refrigerator.
* Once any preserve has been opened then it is necessary to keep the opened jar in the 
fridge.ESSEntial prESErving ingrE diEntS
Sugars—used for preserving jams, marmalades, candying fruits and in curing meats.
Salts—used for brines, pickling and curing meats.Acids—used in jams to prevent discoloration (lemon juice, citric acid and tamarind).Vinegars—used for pickles, chutneys and relishes.Fats and oils—used as a sealant. 
pEctin
* Pectin has its own entry due to the important role it has in setting jams and marmalades. 
Fruits have varying pectin levels so it is important to check the cooked fruit to determine 
if pectin needs to be added. To test for pectin content—combine 1 tablespoon of the cooked, unsweetened fruit juice with 1 tablespoon of methylated spirits. Stir for 2–3 minutes or until the fruit juice starts to clot. A large clot or lump indicates a high pectin content, while many small, broken clots mean a low pectin content. 
* Lemon juice is added to fruit with a low pectin content to compensate by drawing out the 
pectin in the fruit. It also prevents the jam from crystallising. 
* Fruit high in pectin include—apples, redcurrants, quinces, black currants, citrus fruit 
and gooseberries. 
* Raspberries, passionfruits, plums and apricots have a medium pectin content. 
* Strawberries, peaches, mangoes, figs, pineapples, rhubarb and cherries have a low pectin 
content, and therefore need added pectin when making into jams. 
* Commercial jam setting agents can be purchased from supermarkets.
Sugar thE rmomEtErS
Do not even think about making jam without a sugar thermometer. When a jam is heated to 105ºC, the high sugar content reacts with the pectin and forms a gel. If you do not have a sugar thermometer, then test by spooning some jam onto a plate and check its consistency when cold. 
Sugar in jamS
* It’s important to note that sugar is not just added in large amounts to sweeten a jam. 
Its main purpose is to prevent the fruit from fermenting or forming mould. Add too much 
sugar and you run the risk of the jam becoming syrupy and not setting properly. Add too little sugar and the jam may not set and will deteriorate faster. The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 560* A good rule of thumb is to allow 800 g to 1 kg sugar for every 1 kg of prepared fruit 
(fruit that is peeled, cored and chopped, ready to cook).
The 10 rules of jam making
1. Always use premium fruit. Avoid fruit that is overripe, damaged or covered with 
blemishes. Under-ripe fruit takes too long to cook and sabotages the setting temperature.2. When cooking fruit with the skin on, do not add the sugar until the skins have softened completely. Once the sugar is added, the skins will not break down further.3. Use a large pot to make jams. Jam boils, bubbles and splatters, and may give a nasty burn if cooked in a small saucepan.4. Do not be tempted to make large quantities in one go. Colour and flavour retention is best achieved in smaller batches (less than 2 kg of fruit and sugar combined).5. Avoid using too much sugar thinking the jam will set better. Quite the opposite is true—too much sugar counters the pectin and leaves the jam syrupy.6. Not enough sugar in the jam causes rapid deterioration as well as poor setting.7. Avoid burning the jam—it is important to stir the jam in the initial stages to lift fruit from the base of the pan.8. Do not be tempted to cook the jam for longer than is required. Going past the recommended 105ºC can cause the jam to harden or become slightly chewy once it is cold.9. Be very aware of the fruit used for jam making and recognise the fruit’s pectin levels. Jam making really is an exact science.10. Patience, understanding and persistence are the 3 key elements of successful jam making.
Good luck!The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 561Conversion Charts
Commonly used abbreviations
°C degrees Celsius (centigrade)
°F degrees Fahrenheit
cc
cl centilitre
cm centimetre
dl decilitre
dr dram (drachm)
fl oz fluid ounce
g gram (gramme)
gal gallon
in. inch
kg kilogram
L litre
l. litre
lb pound
min minim
ml millilitre
mm millimetre
oz ounce
pt pint
qt quart
T tablespoon
tbsp tablespoon 
tsp teaspoonThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 562Oven temperatures
A common frustration for many cooks is trying to decipher what a ‘moderate’ or ‘slow’ oven 
is. Conversions between gas marks, Celsius and Fahrenheit can also be confusing. To prove conclusively that cooking really does have an element of guesswork to it, we have four columns of oven settings, all of which are only close to an exact reading. It is highly recommended that an ‘ovenproof’ thermometer be used. Often domestic and even professional ovens have a malfunctioning thermostat which can really have an effect on baked goods.
Celsius Fahrenheit Gas mark Definition
100 200 ¼ very cool
110 225 ¼ very cool
120 240 ½ cool/slow
130 250 1 cool/slow
140 275 2 cool/slow
150 300 3 cool/slow
170 325 4 moderate
180 350 5 moderate
190 375 6 moderate
200 400 7 hot
220 425 8 hot
230 450 9 very hot
240 475 10 very hot
250 500 10 very hotThe Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 563Celsius/Fahrenheit C onversion
This conversion chart is a handy guide to all manner of cooked or chilled foods in cookbooks 
that use one or both temperature readings. When comparing these exact conversions to, say, that of an oven, then naturally it is assumed that the cook will round up or down as it is nigh impossible to set an oven to exactly 401°F or 113°F, but much easier to set it to its metric equivalent.
°C °F °C °F
–18 0 130 266
0 32 135 275
5 41 140 284
10 50 145 293
15 59 150 302
20 68 155 311
25 77 160 320
30 86 165 329
35 95 170 338
40 104 175 347
45 113 180 356
50 122 185 365
55 141 190 374
60 140 195 383
65 149 200 392
70 158 205 401
75 167 210 410
80 176 215 419
85 185 220 428
90 194 225 437
95 203 230 446
100 212 235 455
105 221 240 464
110 230 245 473
115 239 250 482
120 248 255 491
125 257 260 500The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 564Liquid conversion
Metric
volumeexact imperialequivalentimperialapproximationAlsoknown as
1 ml 0.0338 fl oz 1 cc,16 min,20 drops
3.7 ml 0.1251 fl oz 1 fl dr,60 min
5 ml 0.1691 fl oz 1 tsp, 60 drops thin liquid
10 ml 0.3381 fl oz 1 dessertspoon, 1 cl
15 ml 0.5072 fl oz 1 tbsp (US, UK)
20 ml 0.6762 fl oz 1 tbsp (Australia)
25 ml 0.8453 fl oz
¼ dl, 8 fl dr
30 ml 1.0143 fl oz 1 fl oz 2 tbsp (US, UK)
50 ml 1.76 fl oz 2 fl oz ½ dl, 1 jigger
75 ml 1.66 fl oz 2½ fl oz ¾ dl
100 ml 3.52 fl oz 3½ fl oz 1 dl
120 ml 4.06 fl oz 4 fl oz 1 gill (US),32 dr
125 ml 4.40 fl oz 4
½ oz ¼ pt,
½ cup (Australia)
150 ml 5.28 fl oz 5 fl oz 1 gill (UK)(137.7 ml)
200 ml 7.04 fl oz 7 fl oz
250 ml 8.81 fl oz 9 fl oz 0.25 L, 1 cup (Australia), 16 tbsp
275 ml 9.68 fl oz 9
½ fl oz ½ pt
300 ml 10.56 fl oz 10 fl oz 1 cup (UK)
500 ml 17.63 fl oz 18 fl oz 5 dl, 2 cups (Australia), 0.5 L,  1 pt (US), 2
¼ cups (US)
575 ml 20.27 fl oz 20 fl oz 1 pt, 4 gill
1 L 35.26 fl oz 35 fl oz 1¾ pt (UK), 2 pt (US),  
1 qt, 4 cups (Australia, UK), 1000 ml
1.1 L 37.18 fl oz 37 fl oz 1 dry qt
3.8 L 128.44 fl oz 128 fl oz 1 gal (US), 4 qt, 16 cups (Australia, UK), 8 pt (US)
4.5 L 158.67 fl oz 160 fl oz 1 gal (UK)
34 L 1149.2 fl oz 1150 fl oz 1 firkenThe Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 565Weight conversion
imperial weight exact metric 
equivalentMetric approximation Also known as
¼ oz 7 g 5 g
½ 14.1 g 15 g
1 oz 28.3 g 30 g 16 dr
2 oz 56.6 g 55 g
3 oz 84.9 g 85 g
4 oz 113.2 g 110–115 g ¼ lb
5 oz 141.5 g 140–150 g
6 oz 169.8 g 170 g
7 oz 198.1 g 200 g
8 oz 227 g 225 g ½ lb
9 oz 255.3 g 250 g ¼ kg
10 oz 283 g 280 g
11 oz 311.3 g 300–310 g
12 oz 340 g 340–350 g
13 oz 368.3 g 370 g
14 oz 396.6 g 400 g
15 oz 424 g 425 g
16 oz 454 g 450 g 1 lb
17 oz 482.3 g 500 g 1 lb, 0.5 kg
2 lb 898.0 g 900 g
2.2 lb 1 kg 2 lb + 3.27 oz
4.41 lb 2 kg 4 lb +6.55 oz The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 566Less common measures
A10 can a large commercial can of food (weight can vary 
from approx. 1.8 to 3 kg)
baker’s dozen 13
bush (US imperial dry measure) 8 gal (4 pecks, 35 L dry)
bushel (US imperial dry measure) 8 gal (4 pecks, 35 L dry)
3 bushels 1 sack
deck 10 bunches
dram (fluid) 3.7 ml
gill (UK) 137.7 ml
gill (US) 118.3 ml
gallon (UK) 4.546 L
gallon (US) 3.785 L
head 1 only (used for vegetables such as cauliflower 
and cabbage)
No. 1 can (US) 310 g, 11 oz
No. 2 can (US) 560 g/600 ml, 20 oz
No. 2 1/2 can (US) 850 g/840 ml, 28 oz
No. 303 can (US) 450 g/ 480 ml, 16 oz
peck (pk) (US imperial dry measure) 8 qt (8.8 L dry)
pint (UK) 568.3 ml
pint (US) 473.2 ml
5 quarters 1 load (ld)
12 sacks 1 chaldron
common dimensions of cooking equipment
These conversions are based on what recipe books commonly call for when specifying items 
such as cake tins, frying pans and cutters. They are not exact conversions. For example,  30 cm is not exactly 12 in., but a cookbook will usually ask for a 30-cm/12-in. diameter tin or pan.
1 cm ½ in.
2.5 cm 1 in.
4 cm 1½ in.
5 cm 2 in.
8 cm 3 in.
10 cm 4 in.
12 cm 5 in.
23 cm 9 in.
28 cm 11 in.
30 cm 12 in.
33 cm 13 in.The Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 567EquivalE nt quantitiE s for somE  common foods
Weights are equivalent to 1 cup (250 ml) of the product
+ means just over the weight specified- means just under the weight specified 
almonds, shelled, whole 150 g +5 oz
almonds, choppped or flaked +75 g +3 oz
almonds, ground 150 g +5 oz
apples, sliced 175 g 6 oz
apples, chopped 100 g 4 oz
apricots, fresh/raw, sliced 225 g 8 oz
apricots, fresh/raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
apricots, cooked, chopped 75 g 3 oz
apricots, dried 150 g +5 oz
asparagus, fresh/raw, chopped 125 g -5 oz
asparagus, tinned/cooked, chopped 175 g 6 oz
bacon, raw, chopped 225 g 8 oz
baking powder 180 g +6 oz
bananas, fresh/raw, sliced 225 g 8 oz
bananas, fresh/raw, chopped 200 g 7 oz
bananas, fresh/raw, mashed 300 g 11 oz
beans, dried (all varieties) 200 g 7 oz
beans, black or kidney, cooked 60 g 2½ oz
beans, lima or navy, cooked 75 g 3 oz
beans, green, fresh/raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
beans, green, cooked, chopped 180 g +6 oz
beef, cooked, chopped/diced 150 g +5 oz
beetroot, raw, sliced/diced/grated 150 g +5 oz
beetroot, cooked, sliced/diced 200 g 7 oz
biscuit crumbs 100 g 4 oz
blueberries, fresh/raw 100 g 4 oz
breakfast cereals, All Bran 50 g 2 oz
breakfast cereals, bran flakes 37 g 1½ oz
breakfast cereals, Cornflakes 25 g 1 oz
breakfast cereals, crushed flakes 75 g 3 oz
breakfast cereals, Rice Bubbles/Crispies 25 g 1 oz
breakfast cereals, puffed rice -25 g -1 oz
bread, fresh/stale, broken into pieces 50 g 2 oz
bread crumbs, fresh 50 g 2 oz
bread crumbs, dry 90 g 3.5 g
broccoli florets, fresh/raw 175 g 6 oz
Brussels sprouts, fresh/raw 100 g 4 oz
bulgur wheat, raw 225 g 8 ozThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 568bulgur wheat, cooked 250 g 9 oz
butter 225 g 8 oz
cabbage, cooked, chopped 225 g 8 oz
candied fruit 225 g 8 oz
candied peel 75 g 3 oz
capsicum, choppped 175 g 6 oz
carrots, cooked/raw, chopped 50 g 2 oz
cashew nuts, whole/chopped 150 g +5 oz
cauliflower florets, fresh/cooked 325 g -12 oz
celeriac, cooked, chopped/mashed 200 g 7 oz
celery, raw, chopped 100 g 4 oz
celery, cooked, chopped 225 g 8 oz
cheese, hard, grated 100 g 4 oz
cheese, hard, cubed 125 g -5 oz
cheese, cottage or cream 225 g 8 oz
cheese, soft, grated 100 g 4 oz
cherries, fresh, pitted 225 g 8 oz
chicken, cooked, shredded (meat only) 125 g -5 oz
chocolate, grated 125 g -5 oz
chocolate chips 175 g 6 oz
citrus fruit, segment/large pieces (flesh only) 225 g 8 oz
cocoa powder 100 g 4 oz
coconut, flaked/grated 75 g 3 oz
cod, flaked (flesh only), cooked 200 g 7 oz
coriander, fresh, chopped 50 g 2 oz
corn kernels, fresh 175 g 6 oz
corn, canned 250 g 9 oz
cornflour 125 g -5 oz
cornmeal 150 g +5 oz
corn syrup 300 g 11 oz
crackers, broken 175 g 6 oz
cranberries, fresh/raw 100 g 4 oz
cucumber, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
currants (e.g. black or red), fresh 100 g 4 oz
dried currants, 150 g +5 oz
dates, whole 225 g 8 oz
dates, pitted, chopped 175 g 6 oz
eggplant, raw, chopped 250 g 9 oz
eggs, hard-boiled, chopped 225 g 8 oz
figs, chopped 150 g +5 oz
flour, white, rye or barley 150 g +4 oz
flour, wholewheat 150 g -5 oz
flour, chickpea 75 g 3 ozThe Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 569flour, cornflour 100 g 3½ oz
flour, potato 125 g 5 oz
flour, rice 125 g +5 oz
flour, tapioca 100 g -5 oz
frozen vegetables, chopped 150 g +5 oz
garlic flakes 140 g -5 oz
ginger, fresh, chopped 100 g 4 oz
grapefruit, segments/large pieces (flesh only) 225 g 8 oz
grapes, whole +100 g +4 oz
grapes, halved, pitted 175 g 6 oz
greens, raw, chopped 100 g 4 oz
greens, cooked, chopped 225 g 8 oz
haddock, flaked (flesh only cooked) 200 g 7 oz
ham, cooked, chopped 150 g +5 oz
hazelnuts, whole 150 g +5 oz
hazelnuts, chopped 175 g 6 oz
jam 325 g -12 oz
lard 225 g 8 oz
lentils, uncooked 200 g 7 oz
lentils, cooked 75 g 3 oz
lettuce, chopped 75 g 3 oz
margarine 225 g 8 oz
meat (red), minced 225 g 8 oz
meat (red), cooked, chopped 150 g +5 oz
milk powder 125 g -5 oz
mint, fresh, chopped +25 g +1 oz
molasses 325 g -12 oz
mushrooms, fresh, whole 125 g -5 oz
mushrooms, fresh, chopped 100 g 4 oz
mushrooms, fresh, sliced +75 g +3 oz
nectarines, fresh, peeled and sliced 225 g 8 oz
noodles, uncooked 75 g 3 oz
noodles, cooked 150 g +5 oz
nuts see individual nuts
oatmeal -100 g -4 oz
okra, raw 100 g 4 oz
onion, raw, sliced 100 g 4 oz
onion, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
orange, segments/large pieces (flesh only) 225 g 8 oz
oysters, without shell 225 g 8 oz
parsley, fresh, coarsely chopped 25 g 1 oz
pasta, short cut, uncooked 100 g 4 oz
pasta, short cut, cooked 200 g 7 ozThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 570peaches, fresh, sliced 225 g 8 oz
peanut butter 250 g 9 oz
peanuts, shelled 150 g +5 oz
peanuts, chopped 125 g -5 oz
pearl barley 200 g 7 oz
pears, fresh, peeled and sliced 225 g 8 oz
pears, canned, drained and chopped +175 g +6 oz
peas (green), shelled, fresh or frozen 150 g +5 oz
peas, split, uncooked 225 g 8 oz
peas, split, cooked 100 g 4 oz
pecan nuts, shelled, halved 100 g 4 oz
pecan nuts, shelled, chopped 125 g -5 oz
pineapple, fresh, skinned, chopped 200 g 7 oz
pineapple, crushed 225 g 8 oz
pistachio nuts, whole 150 g +5 oz
pistachio nuts, chopped 100 g 4 oz
plums, fresh, stoned 175 g 6 oz
poppy seeds 125 g -5 oz
potatoes, raw, chopped 175 g 6 oz
potatoes, cooked, chopped or mashed 225 g 8 oz
prunes 175 g 6 oz
prunes, cooked, stoned 125 g -5 oz
pumpkin, cooked, chopped 150 g +5 oz
pumpkin, cooked, mashed 225 g 8 oz
quince, fresh, cored 175 g 6 oz
raisins 150 g +5 oz
raisins, cooked 200 g 7 oz
raspberries, fresh/raw 125 g -5 oz
rhubarb, fresh/raw, chopped 100 g 4 oz
rhubarb, cooked, fresh or canned and drained 200 g 7 oz
rice, raw 225 g 8 oz
rice, cooked 250 g 9 oz
rolled oats, uncooked 100 g 4 oz
salmon, canned, drained, flaked 225 g 8 oz
sauerkraut 150 g +5 oz
semolina, dry 200 g 7 oz
shallots, raw, sliced 100 g 4 oz
shallots, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
shortening 225 g 8 oz
soy beans, cooked 75 g 3 oz
spaghetti, uncooked 100 g 4 oz
spaghetti, cooked 50 g 2 oz
spinach, cooked (450 g raw weight) 225 g 8 ozThe Really UsefUl InfoRmaTIon 571spinach, raw 75 g 2½ oz
squash (summer), cooked, chopped 125 g -5 oz
squash (winter), cooked, mashed 450 g 16 oz
strawberries, fresh/raw, halved/sliced 200 g 7 oz
suet, shredded 125 g -5 oz
sugar, granulated, caster or superfine 225 g 8 oz
sugar, brown 200 g 7 oz
sugar, icing 125 g -5 oz
sultanas 150 g +5 oz
swede, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
swede, cooked, chopped or mashed 200 g 7 oz
sweet potatotes, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
sweet potatoes, cooked, mashed 200 g 7 oz
tapioca, dry 150 g +5 oz
tomatoes, fresh/raw, chopped 200 g 7 oz
tomatoes, canned 225 g 8 oz
tomato paste or sauce 225 g 8 oz
tuna, flaked (flesh only) 225 g 8 oz
turkey, cooked, shredded (flesh only) 125 g -5 oz
turnips, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
turnips, cooked, chopped or mashed 200 g 7 oz
walnuts, shelled, halved 100 g 4 oz
walnuts, shelled, chopped 125 g -5 oz
yam, raw, chopped 150 g +5 oz
yam, cooked, chopped 200 g 7 oz
yoghurt 250 g 9 oz
zucchini, sliced 150 g +5 oz
zucchini, chopped 175 g 6 ozThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 572Cup measurements
What a luxury it would be if metric were to become the universal measurement, which seems 
rational in these modern times. See Weight and Liquid conversion tables for equivalents for US customary, British imperial and metric measurements.
tips for measurements:
* Cookbooks assume you will use proper cup and spoon measuring utensils. Household cups 
and spoons are not useful. Keep this in mind when working from these books, especially when 
baking delicate goods.
* Australian cookbooks tend to use a mix of metric and British imperial.
* US cookbook measurements refer to volume rather than weight for dry ingredients.
* Take particular care with cup measurements, as all three are different:
1 US cup = 237 ml1 British cup = 284 ml1 Australian cup = 250 ml
* When measuring with a cup or spoon, always use level quantity (scant) unless the recipe 
states ‘heaped’.
* Scant, as in scant ½ cup, or scant pinch of salt, is also known as a ‘struck measure’. 
It means just the measurement specified.------------------------------------
The Indexes xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx
------------------------------------ Recipe index 575chocolate pavlova 297
chocolate sauce 254chocolate self-saucing 
pudding 280
chocolate slice 405chocolate Swiss roll 401chorizo, prawn and chilli 
frittata 451
choux pastry 464Christmas cake 363Christmas pudding 282chutney, tomato 38citrus fruit salad 7clarified butter 438club sandwich 440cocktail sauce 226coconut ice 350coconut macaroons 375coleslaw 182corn on the cob 160corned beef 124couscous with preserved lemon 
and saffron 204
crab cakes 74crab chowder 51cream cheese frosting 409crème fraîche 442crepes 284crispy skin chicken breast 96Croque Madame 245Croque Monsieur 245croutons 443cupcakes 352curry powder 444
dashi stock 446
devil’s chocolate frosting 
410
devil’s food cake 354double almond friands 361duck in orange sauce 103duck with cherry sauce, roast 
102bread and butter pudding 276
bubble and squeak 158butter cream 413butterscotch sauce 250
Caesar dressing 224
Caesar salad 178caramel ice-cream 253caramel orange sauce 271caramel sauce 252caramelised onions 21carrot cake 342cauliflower soup 46cheese croutons 52cheese twists 344cheesecake, baked 266cheesecake, baked ricotta 270cheesecake, lemon 391cheesecake, raspberry 390cheesecake, simple 391chef’s salad 180chicken and sweet corn soup 48chicken Kiev 92chicken liver parfait 94chicken, roast 100chicken soup with matzoh 
balls 48
chicken stock 436chilli con carne 122chilli jam 22chocolate and nut biscuits 339chocolate blondies 346chocolate brownies 346chocolate cake, flourless 356chocolate chip biscuits 339chocolate chip friands 361chocolate crackles 347chocolate cupcakes 353chocolate fudge 348, 349chocolate ganache 401chocolate icing 408chocolate mousse 278chocolate muffins 381chocolate pastry cream 415aïoli 222ajo blanco 55almond bread 326anzac biscuits 328apple and rhubarb crumble 260apple pie 262apple prune and spice stuffing 
430
apple sauce 248apple strudel 264apricot chicken 90
baba ghanouj 20
bacon and egg pie 332bacon, spinach and goat’s 
cheese omelette 11
baked potato in cream 156baklava 330banana bread 334banana cake 336banana smoothie 422banana split 272banana, strawberry and 
passionfruit salad 6
béarnaise sauce 229béchamel sauce 245beef brisket, braised 118beef casserole 112beef, roast 138beef stroganoff 114beer batter 432berries gratin 323berry tiramisu 317bircher muesli 2biscotti 340biscuits, basic 338Black Forest queen of 
puddings 305
blini 434blueberry muffins 381boiled eggs 4bolognaise sauce 116brandy butter sauce 283brandy snaps 274
Recipe index
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 576napoli sauce 233
Niçoise salad 190nut biscuits 339
olive, fetta and zucchini 
frittata 451
omelette 10
onion, caramelised 21onion jam 28orange and marscarpone 
melting moments 379
orange and poppy seed cake 359orange and poppy seed friands 
361
orange cake, flourless 358orange cupcakes 353orange syrup cake 359osso buco 134
pad thai sauce 234
pancakes, super fluffy 16pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
pannacotta 294panzanella 192passionfruit curd 414pasta dough 460pasta salad 194pastry 460–64pastry cream 415pavlova 296pea and ham soup 60peach Melba 298peanut brittle 384pecan and maple syrup friands 
361
pecan biscuits 385pecan pie 300pecan toffee sauce 251Peking duck 98pesto 30pickled vegetables 162pikelets 386pineapple, papaya and mint 
salad 7
pistou 32pizza dough 466plum sauce 236icing, basic 408
Italian meringue 412Italian sausages with soft 
polenta 213
junket 286lamb, roast 140lamb shanks, braised 120lasagne 128lasagne, vegetarian 172lavosh 454lemon and ginger tea 425lemon cheesecake 391lemon curd 414lemon delicious 288lemon meringue pie 290lemon Swiss roll 401lemon tart 292lemonade 426lemonade scones 394lentil burgers 208lumberjack cake 373
macaroni cheese 210
maple snaps 275marmalade 416marshmallows 376matzoh balls, chicken soup 
with 48
meat loaf 130mee goring sauce 232melon fruit salad 6melting moments 378meringue, Italian 412meringue, Swiss 413meringues 380minestrone 56mint jelly 26miso soup 58moussaka 132muffins 381mushroom lasagne 173mushroom soup 59mushroom, tomato and spinach 
omelette 11
nachos 456
Nanaimo bars 382eggnog 423
eggs, boiled 4eggs, scrambled 12
fattoush 184
fish, cooking whole 72fish fillets, pan-fried 76fish pie 77fish stock 447flourless chocolate cake 356flourless orange cake 358fondue 448French onion soup 52French toast 5friands 360fried rice 206frittata 450fruit cake 362fruit mince pies 364fruit salad 6
garlic bread 452
garlic butter 227garlic confit 453garlic prawns 78garlic, roasted 453gazpacho 54ginger pudding, steamed 315ginger soy dressing 228gingerbread people 366Greek salad 186green salad 188guacamole 24
ham and pea frittata 451
ham, baked 108hash brown potato 8hedgehog 368herb butter 227hollandaise sauce 229honeycomb 369honeycomb butter 369hortopita 397hot chocolate 424hot cross buns 370hummingbird cake 372hummus 25Recipe index 577tabbouleh 200
tartare sauce 231tea cake 402teriyaki sauce 242Thai beef salad 150Thai chilli sauce 243thousand island dressing 226tiramisu 316tiropita 397toffee 403toffee sauce 251tofu mayonnaise 231tomato chutney 38tomato jam 42tomato relish 40tomato soup 66tomatoes, slow-roasted 14trifle 319tropical salad 7tzatziki 43
vanilla slice 404
vanilla sugar 471veal Cordon Bleu 153veal Holstein 153veal Jäger 153veal schnitzel 152vegetable and barley soup 68vegetable and noodle stir-fry 
170
vegetables, roasted 168vegetarian lasagne 172vegetarian spring rolls 219vichyssoise 61vinaigrette 246white caper sauce 245white Christmas 347white sauce 244
yoghurt and lemon mousse 320
yoghurt dressing 247Yorkshire pudding 139
zabaglione 322
zucchini slice 174salmon patties 81
salsa verde 34salt and pepper squid 82san choy bao 144satay sauce 238sauce Choron 229sauce Maltaise 229sauce remoulade 231sausage pinwheels 393sausage rolls 392sausages and mash with pepper 
sauce 146
scones 394scrambled eggs 12seafood chowder 64seafood crepes 84seafood gumbo 64shallot dressing 240shogi sticks 413shortcrust pastry 462snow eggs 380soufflé crepes baked in royale 
custard 285
spaghetti carbonara 216, 217spanakopita 396spare ribs, barbecue-style 110sponge cake 398spring rolls 218squid, salt and pepper 82steak and kidney pie 148steamed ginger pudding 315sticky date pudding 310strawberry, grape and mango 
salad 7
strawberry jam 418strawberry shortcake 339sugar syrup 470summer pudding 312sundried tomato, mushroom and 
spinach frittata 451
sweet and sour sauce 241sweet pastry 460sweet shortcrust pastry 460Swiss roll 400syrup pudding 314polenta, firm 212
polenta, soft 213pork, roast 142potato and leek soup 61potato and rosemary frittata 
451
potato, baked in cream 156potato mash 164potato salad 196praline 387prawn cocktail 80prawns, garlic 78preserved lemons 468puff pastry 463pumpkin pie 302pumpkin soup 62punch 427
queen of puddings 304
quiche Lorraine 388quince, baked 268quince paste 33
ranch dressing 231
raspberry cheesecake 390raspberry fool 306raspberry sauce 256raspberry snaps 275ratatouille 166red wine sauce 235rhubarb pie 307rhubarb, poached 307rhubarb, stewed 307rice pudding 308rice salad 198ricotta cheesecake, baked 270risotto 214rissoles 136roast beef 138roast chicken 100roast duck with cherry sauce 
102
roast lamb 140roast pork and crackling 140roasted vegetables 168General index 579cottage pie 126
cuts 500girello 125gravy 139lasagne 128red wine sauce for steaks 
235
roast 138roasting generally 501–2steak and kidney pie 148stroganoff 114Thai beef salad 150
beer batter 432Bengali five spice 528bergamot 498berries gratin 323berry tiramisu 317besan flour 494beurre manié 522beurre rouge 235Bhutanese red rice 517bircher muesli 2biscotti 340
chocolate and almond 341espresso 341
biscuits
Anzac 328basic 338biscotti 340chocolate and nut 339chocolate chip 339gingerbread people 366hedgehog 368honeycomb 339macaroons 374melting moments 378nut 339pecan 385strawberry shortcake 339
black beans 478
fermented 478
black cumin 530Black Forest queen of 
puddings 305avocadoes 476
guacamole 24
azuki/adzuki beans 477
baba ghanouj 20
bacalao 523bacon see ham and bacon
bain marie 549bake 549baklava 330
sugar syrup for 470
baldo rice 516banana
bread 334cake 336hummingbird cake 372roasted banana split 273smoothie 422split 272strawberry, banana and 
passionfruit salad 6
banana pepper 187barbequing 549–50bard 551barley and vegetable soup 68barley flour 493basil 498
pesto 30pistou 32slow-roasted tomatoes with 
15
basmati rice 516bean flakes 478bean flour 494beans 476–8béarnaise sauce 229béchamel sauce 245beef 503
braised brisket 118braising 502casserole 112chilli con carne 122cooking 501corned 124abalone 523
African spices 527agave nectar 534aïoli 222ajo blanco 55ajowan 528allicin 21allspice 528almond
bread 326chocolate and almond 
biscotti 341
double almond friands 361macaroons 374milk 538praline 387
amaranth flour 493American spices 527anchovies
Niçoise salad 191salsa verde 34tapenade 36
anise 528anise (Sichuan) pepper 530annatto 528Anzac biscuits 328apple
crumble, apple and rhubarb 
260
lumberjack cake 373pie 262sauce 248strudel 264stuffing, apple, prune and 
spice 430
toffee apples 403
apricot chicken 90arborio rice 515
risotto 214
arrowroot flour 493asafoetida 528Asian spices 527Australian spices 527
General index
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxThe Basics: a really useful cookB ook 580caramel orange sauce 271
caramel sauce 252caramelise 551caramelised lemon tart 293caramelised onions 21
sausages and mash with 21, 
147
white sauce with 245
caraway 528cardamom 528carob 483Carolina rice 517carrot cake 342cassava flour 494casserole 551
beef 112burnt 503
caster/castor sugar 532cauliflower soup 46celtic sea salt 520chargrill 551cheese 479
buying and storing 479chef’s salad 180croutons 52fondue 448twists 344
cheese board 479cheesecake
baked 266baked ricotta 270lemon 391raspberry 390simple 391
chef’s salad 180cherry sauce, roast duck with 
102
chervil 498chestnut and wild mushroom 
stuffing 431
chestnut flour 494chicken 511–14
apricot chicken 90bacteria, risk of 511battery hen 512boiler hen 512broiler hen 512club sandwich 441cabbage
bubble and squeak 158coleslaw 182Savoy 183wombok 183
cacao 482cacao bean 480Caesar dressing 224Caesar salad 178cake flour 494cakes
baked cheesecake 266baked ricotta cheesecake 
270
banana 336carrot 342chocolate cupcakes 353Christmas 363cupcakes 352devil’s food 354flourless chocolate 356flourless orange 358fruit 363hummingbird 372icing see icing
lumberjack 373orange and poppy seed 359orange cupcakes 353orange syrup 359sponge 398Swiss roll 400tea 402
calrose rice 517candy 551capers
pickled 35salsa verde 34salted 34tapenade 36white caper sauce 245
capon 513capsicum
chilli jam 22gazpacho 54panzanella 192pickled vegetables 162roasted vegetables 169
caramel ice-cream 253black glutinous rice 517
black japonica rice 517
black salt 520
black sesame seeds 530black sticky rice 517
blanch 551
bleached flour 494blended sugar 532
blind baking 509, 551
blini 434blueberry
berries gratin 323friands 360
muffins 381
pancake topping 17summer pudding 312
bocconcini 129boil 551boiled eggs 4, 487bolognaise sauce 116
lasagne 128
borlotti beans 478braised beef brisket 118braised lamb shanks 120braising 502, 551brandy butter sauce 283brandy snaps 274bread and butter pudding 276
soy 277
breadcrumbs 153breakfast burrito 13broad beans 476broast 551broil 551broken rice 517brown rice 199, 207, 517brown sugar 532bubble and squeak 158
roasted vegetables 169
buckwheat flour 494bulgur (burghul) 201
tabbouleh 200
butter cream 413butter sauces 521butterscotch sauce 250
sticky date pudding with 
311General index 581unsweetened 483
white 483
chorizo, prawn and chilli 
frittata 451
Christmas cake 363
Christmas pudding 282
brandy butter sauce for 283
Christmas rice 517cilantro (coriander) 498
cinnamon 529cinnamon sugar 532
citrus fruit salad 7
clam chowder 51
clarified butter 438
cloves 529club sandwich 440cockscomb 513cocktail sauce 226cocoa butter 482cocoa powder 482coconut ice 350coconut macaroons 375coconut sugar 532coddled eggs 487, 552coeliac disease 537
food alternatives 
see gluten/wheat intolerance
coffee junket 287coleslaw 182confit 552conversion charts 561–71cooking salt 520cooking techniques 549–57coriander 498
leaf 498root 498seeds 498, 529
corn 484
chicken and sweet corn soup 
48
on the cob 160
corn syrup 534corned beef 124corned beef hash 125cornflour 494cottage pie 126biscuits, chocolate and nut 
339
biscuits, chocolate chip 
339
bitter 483
bittersweet 482Black Forest queen of 
puddings 305
blondies 346blooming 480, 481brownies 346cacao 482cocoa butter 482cocoa powder 482compound 482conching 481couverture 482crackles 347cupcakes 353dark 482devil’s chocolate frosting 
410
devil’s food cake 354flourless chocolate cake 356free-standing mousse 279friands, chocolate chip 361fudge 348, 349ganache 401German 482hot chocolate 425icing 408junket 287melting 481Mexican 482milk 483mousse 278mousse for piping 279muffins 381pastry cream 415pavlova 297problem solving 481sauce 254self-saucing pudding 280semi-sweet 483slice 405sweet 483Swiss roll 401types of 482cooking 512corn-fed 513crispy skin chicken breast 
96
free-range 513grain-fed 514herb butter with 97Kiev 92liver parfait 94mushroom sauce for 97pesto and camembert, with 
31
poussin 514pullet 514rinsing 101roast 100rosemary skewers 97soup, chicken and sweet 
corn 48
soup with matzoh balls 50spatchcock 514stock 436stuffing 101tapenade and ricotta, with 
37
trussing 101types 512–14
chickpeas
braised lamb shanks with 
121
burgers 209canned 25hummus 25
chiffonade 201, 499chilli 480
con carne 122heat ratings 480jam 22stir-fry 171
Chinese cooking wine 207Chinese five-spice powder 529Chinese parsley (coriander) 
498
Chinese (Sichuan) pepper 530chocolate 480–83
alternatives 483biscotti, chocolate and 
almond 341The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 582salting 167
vegetarian lasagne 172
eggs 486–9
alternatives 489bacon and egg pie 332
bacon, spinach and goat’s 
cheese omelette 11
beating egg whites 486boiled 4, 487
chorizo, prawn and chilli 
frittata 451
coddled 487, 552dirty 488
Dsaudan 489
duck 489egg replacer 489eggnog 423French toast 5fried 487frittata 450ham and pea frittata 451hard-boiled 487hollandaise sauce 229hulidan 489leftover yolks/whites 488meringue see meringue/s
mushroom, tomato and 
spinach omelette 11
olive, fetta and zucchini 
frittata 451
omelette 10, 487pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
pidan 489poached 487problem solving 488quail 489quiche Lorraine 388salads, boiling for 191scrambled 12, 487separating 488sizes 487soft-boiled 487storing 486sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach frittata 451cure 552
curry leaf 498curry powder 444custard 411
dairy intolerance 537
alternatives to milk 538
bircher muesli 3ghee 439mushroom soup 59omelette 13soy bread and butter 
pudding 277
dashi 58
hoshi-shiitake dashi 446kombu dashi 446miso soup 58niboshi dashi 446stock 446
date sugar 532deep-fry 552deglaze 552demerara sugar 532devil’s chocolate frosting 
410
devil’s food cake 354dirty rice 517double boil 552double boilers 552dry fondant sugar 532Dsaudan eggs 489duck
eggs 489orange sauce, in 103Peking duck 98roast duck with cherry 
sauce 102
san choy bao 145
dukkah 529durum wheat flour 494
egg cream 489
eggnog 423eggplant
baba ghanouj 20moussaka 132ratatouille 166roasted vegetables 169couscous 205
preserved lemon and 
saffron, with 204
crab 523
see also seafoodblini 435buying 523cakes 74chowder 51cooking 523meat 85stick 523
crayfish 523–4
see also seafood
cream 484–5
butter 413clotted 484crème fraîche 442, 484double 484maple 303pastry 415potato baked in 156pouring 485qaimaaq 485sour 485sterilised 485thickened 485whipping 485
cream cheese frosting 409crème anglaise 522crème fraîche 442, 484crepes 284
seafood 84soufflé crepes baked in 
royale custard 285
Suzette 285
Croque Madame 245Croque Monsieur 245croutons 443
cheese 52
cubeb 529cucumber
chef’s salad 180fattoush 184Greek salad 186Lebanese 181tzatziki 43
cupcakes 352General index 583apple and rhubarb crumble 
260
apricot chicken 91
bircher muesli 3bread and butter pudding 
276
couscous, avoiding 205flour suitable for 493–4, 
537
flourless chocolate cake 356flourless orange cake 358gluten-free baking powder 
537
gluten-free flour 494, 538hash brown pizza base 9lasagne 129lentil burgers 208pasta dough 459quinoa 201spring rolls not suitable 
218
tabbouleh 201tamari 207, 242
glutinous rice 517goat’s milk 538goose 514Graham flour 494grape tomatoes 195, 536gravy
beef 139onion 147
Greek salad 186green beans 477green onions 507green salad 188gremolata 135grill 553guacamole 24
blini with 435
guar gum 537
ham and bacon
bacon and egg pie 332
bacon, spinach and goat’s 
cheese omelette 11
baked ham 108chef’s salad 180club sandwich 440French toast 5friands 360fried rice 206frittata 450
chorizo, prawn and chilli 
451
ham and pea 451olive, fetta and zucchini 
451
pancetta, scallop and sage 
451
sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach 451
fructose 534fruit cake 362fruit juice
punch 427sweetener 534
fruit milks 538fruit mince pies 364fruit salad 6fudge, chocolate 348, 349
game birds 513
garam masala 529garlic
aïoli 222bread 452butter 227confit 453pistou 32prawns 78roasted 453
gazpacho 54gelatine 321ghee 439ginger pudding, steamed 315ginger soy dressing 228gingerbread people 366glaze 552glucose powder 534glucose syrup 534gluten 494gluten flour 494gluten-free baking powder 537gluten-free flour 494, 538gluten/wheat intolerance 537
alternatives foods 537thousand-year 489whipping egg whites 486
English spice (allspice) 528epazote 498eschalots 507essential fatty acids 490evaporated cane sugar 532
fats 490
fattoush 184fennel seed 529fenugreek 529fermented rice 517fetta 187, 397
Greek salad 187olive, fetta and zucchini 
frittata 451
Persian 29spanakopita 396
fines herbes 498fish 491–2
see also seafoodbuying 491cooking 492flatfish 491pan-fried fish fillets 76pie 77preparation 492round fish 491salmon patties 81stock 447storing 492tuna see tuna
whole fish, cooking 72
flattened rice 517fleur de sel 520flour 493–4fondant sugar 532fondue 448food additives 539–44food allergies and 
intolerances 537–8
alternatives to allergy-
causing foods 537–9
dairy see dairy intolerance
gluten or wheat see gluten/
wheat intolerance
French onion soup 52The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 584legume flour 495
lemon 500
caramelised lemon tart 293cheesecake 391couscous with preserved 
lemon and saffron 204
curd 414delicious 288dressing 247freezing juice 500grating zest 500lemonade 426marmalade 417meringue pie 290preserved 469Swiss roll 401tart 292tea, lemon and ginger 425varieties 426yoghurt and lemon mousse 
320
lemonade 426lemonade scones 395lentil burgers 208lettuce
drying 189, 550green salad 188san choy bao 144varieties 189
liaison 553lima beans 478lobster 526lotus flour 495lumberjack cake 373
macaroni cheese 210
macaroons 374mace 530malanga flour 495Malian red clay salt 520manja (palm oil) 507maple cream 303maple crystals 535maple snaps 275maple syrup 535marjoram 498marmalade 416marron 524iodised salt 519, 520Italian meringue 412Italian sausages with soft 
polenta 213
jaggery (palm sugar) 533jam-making 558–60Jamaica pepper (allspice) 528japonica rice 515, 517jasmine rice 518java (palm) sugar 533javanica rice 515Jerusalem artichoke flour 494jug 553junket 286
kalijira rice 518
kalonji (nigella) 530kamut flour 494kebsa 529kecap manis 232kefalograviera 133kitchen equipment 546–8knives 546Korean bamboo salt 520Kosher salt 520kumara 511kuzu/kudzu 495
lamb 504
braised lamb shanks 120
cooking 501crumbing 502cuts 500Frenched lamb shanks 121moussaka 132osso buco variant 135rissoles 136roast 140roasting generally 501–2shepherd’s pie 127tzatziki with 43white braising 557
lasagne 128
mushroom 173vegetarian 172
lavosh 454leek and potato soup 61freezing ham 109ham and pea frittata 451pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
pasta bake 87pea and ham soup 60potato salad with bacon 197spaghetti carbonara 216, 
217
zucchini and bacon slice 
175
hash brown potato 8Hawaiian black lava salt 520Hawaiian red clay salt 520hedgehog 368herb butter 227herbs 497–9
problem solving 497types 498–9
Himalayan red rice 518hoisin sauce 99hollandaise sauce 229
clarified butter 439
honey 535honeycomb 369
biscuits 339butter 369
horchata 538horiatiki 187hortopita 397hot chocolate 425hot cross buns 370hulidan eggs 489hummingbird cake 372hummus 25
icing
basic 408
chocolate 408cream cheese frosting 409devil’s chocolate frosting 
410
orange frosting 409
icing sugar 533Indian spices 527indirect grilling 553instant rice 518ham and bacon (continued)General index 585olives
Greek salad 186
olive, fetta and zucchini 
frittata 451
pitting 37tapenade 36
omega-3 fatty acids 490omega-6 fatty acids 490omelette 10, 487onions 507
caramelised 21French onion soup 52gravy 147jam 28onion and sage stuffing 431problem solving 507types 507
OO flour 495orange
cake, flourless 358cake, orange and poppy seed 
359
cupcakes 353friands, orange and poppy 
seed 361
frosting 409junket 287marmalade 416melting moments, orange and 
marscarpone 378
syrup cake 359
oregano 498osso buco 134
gremolata with 135
ovens and ovenware 547–8oysters 525
see also seafood
pad thai sauce 234palm oil 507palm sugar 243, 533pancakes, super fluffy 16pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
panch phora 528pan-fry 555pan-sear 555pannacotta 294mirin 242
miso soup 58
dashi stock 446
mixed berry and mango salad 7mixed spice 530monounsaturated fats 490mornay sauce 245mouli 165moussaka 132muffins 381Murray River salt 520muscovado sugar 533mushrooms 505
beef stroganoff with 115chestnut and wild mushroom 
stuffing 431
hoshi-shiitake dashi 446lasagne 173meat alternative 539mushroom, tomato and 
spinach omelette 11
roasted vegetables 169soup 59spaghetti carbonara 217sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach frittata 451
veal Jäger 153
mussels 524
see also seafood
mutton 504nachos 456
tomato relish with 38
Nanaimo bars 382Napoli sauce 233New Orleans praline 387Niçoise salad 190nigella seeds 530nut allergies 537nut biscuits 339nut flour 495nut meal 495nutmeg 530nuts, pureed 539
oat flour 495
oil 505–7marrow beans 478
marshmallows 376matzo 495matzoh balls, chicken soup 
with 50
mayonnaise 230
cocktail sauce 226derivatives 231leftover egg yolks 49
measuring equipment 546meat 500–5
see also beef; lamb; pork; 
veal
alternatives 538–9barbequing 549–50braising 502, 551cooking 501–2crumbing 502cuts 500marinating 550pot roasting 502, 555problem solving 502roasting 501–2salting 501
meat loaf 130Mediterranean spices 527mee goring sauce 232melon fruit salad 6melting moments 378meringue/s 380
butter cream 413Italian 412pavlova 296shogi sticks 413snow eggs 380Swiss 413vacherins 380
Mexican chocolate 482Mexican horchata 538microwave cooking 553–4milk alternatives 538millet flour 495mince pies 364minestrone 56
pesto in 31salsa verde in 34
mint 499mint jelly 26The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 586pink peppercorns 530
pink Peruvian lake salt 520pistou 32pizza base
hash brown 9pesto 31tapenade 37tomato relish 38
pizza dough 466plain flour 495plum sauce 236poach 555poached eggs 487poached rhubarb 307poêlé 555poi flour 495polenta
firm 212Italian sausages with 213soft 213
polyunsaturated fats 490popcorn rice 518popped rice 518pork 504
apple sauce for 248barbecue-style spare ribs 
110
Chinese red roast pork 206, 
207
quince paste with 33roast pork and crackling 
142
san choy bao 144trichinosis 504
Portuguese rice pudding 309pot roasting 502, 555potato flour 495potato ricer 165potatoes 510–11
baked in cream 156best use for different 
varieties 511
corned beef hash 125cottage pie 126frittata, potato and 
rosemary 451
hash brown 8mash 164, 510sweet shortcrust 461sweet twists 344tapenade, potato and 
rosemary 37
pastry flour 495patna rice 518pavlova 296pea and ham soup 60peach melba 298peaches 299peanut brittle 384peanut oil 207, 506pearl rice 518pearl sugar 533pecan
biscuits 385friands, pecan and maple 
syrup 361
pie 300rice 518toffee sauce 251
pectin 559Peking duck 98pepper 530pesto 30
pizza base 31tomato soup, in 67
pheasant 513pickled vegetables 162pickling onions 507pidan eggs 489pie
apple 262bacon and egg 332fish 77fruit mince 364lemon meringue 290pecan 300pumpkin 302rhubarb 307steak and kidney 148
pikelets 386pineapple
hummingbird cake 372pancake topping 17pineapple, papaya and mint 
salad 7
sweet and sour sauce 241pantry essentials 545panzanella 192par-bake 555parsley 499
chiffonade 201, 499chopping 201, 499curly 201, 499flat-leaf 201, 499root 499tabbouleh 200
passata 15, 169passionfruit
banana, strawberry and 
passionfruit salad 6
bircher muesli with 3curd 414frosting 409
pasta 508
bake 87bolognaise sauce 116cooking 508dough 458gluten-free 459lasagne 128macaroni cheese 210Napoli sauce 233problem solving 509salad 194spaghetti carbonara 216, 
217
tapenade pasta sauce 37tuna bake 86vegetarian lasagne 172
pasteurise 555pastry 460–65, 509–10
blind baking 509cheese twists 344choux 464cream 415docking 510filo 265pie funnel 510problem solving 510quick puff 463rolling 509shortcrust 462spanakopita 396sweet 460General index 587mouli 165
Niçoise salad 190Pontiac 157roasted vegetables 168salad 196sausages and mash with 
pepper sauce 146
shepherd’s pie 127soup, potato and leek 61tapenade, potato and 
rosemary pastries 37
waxy varieties 197, 511
poultry 511–14
see also chicken; duck; 
turkey
bacteria, risk of 511cooking 512game birds 513types 513–14
poussin 514praline 387prawns 525
see also seafoodchorizo, prawn and chilli 
frittata 451
cocktail sauce for 226cooking 525de-veining 525garlic prawns 78prawn cocktail 80
preserved lemons 469
couscous with saffron and 
204
preserving 558–60preserving sugar 533pullet 514pumpkin 63
pie 302roasted vegetables 168soup 62types 63
punch 427
qaimaaq 485
quail 513quail eggs 489quatre épices 530queen of puddings 304quiche Lorraine 388quince 269, 515
baked 268buying 269, 515paste 33
quinoa 201, 495quinoa flour 495
rabbit and hare 504
ranch dressing 231ras el hanout 531raspberry
berries gratin 323berry tiramisu 317cheesecake 390fool 306friands 361jam 419sauce 256snaps 275summer pudding 312
ratatouille 166raw sugar 533red cooking 555red kidney beans 478red onions 507red wine sauce 235reduce 555refresh 556render 556rhubarb 261, 307
apple and rhubarb crumble 
260
oxalic acid 261pancake topping 17pie 307 
poached 307
poisonous leaves 261, 307stewed 307
rice 515–18
brown 199, 207, 517converted 517cooking 515–16dirty 517flakes 517fried 206indica 515instant 518japonica 515, 517javanica 515long-grain 199, 515medium-grain 199, 215piedmont 215problem solving 516pudding 308risotto 214salad 198short-grain 199, 515soaking 515types 516–18wild 199, 519
rice flour 496rice syrup 496ricotta cheesecake, baked 270risotto 214
Milanese 215rice 215, 518
rissoles 136
tomato relish with 41
roast beef 138roast chicken 100roast lamb 140roast pork and crackling 142roasted vegetables 168
bubble and squeak 169salsa verde with 34
roasting 556
meat 501–2
rock salt 521rock sugar 533rolled fondant 533rosemary 499
potato and rosemary 
frittata 451
skewers, for chicken 97tapenade, potato and 
rosemary pastries 37
rough rice 518rouille 223runner beans 478rye flour 496
sabayon 323, 522
sage 499
onion and sage stuffing 431The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 588pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
sago flour 496
sake 242salad onions 507salad spinner 189salads
boiling eggs for 191Caesar 178chef’s 180coleslaw 182fattoush 184fruit 6Greek 186green 188Niçoise 190panzanella 192pasta 194potato 196rice 198tabbouleh 200Thai beef 150
salmon croquettes 81salmon patties 81salsa verde 34
pumpkin soup, in 63
salsa verde agrodolce 35salt 519–20
problem solving 519types 520–21
salt and pepper squid 82salt spray 521saltpetre 521sambal oelek 232san choy bao 144satay sauce 238saturated fats 490saucepans 546sauces 521–22
apple 248béarnaise 229béchamel 245bolognaise 116brandy butter 283butter 521butterscotch 250Cambridge 522caramel 252caramel orange 271chocolate 254Choron 229cocktail 226egg-based 521Gribiche 522hollandaise 229Maltaise 229mee goring 232mornay 245mushroom 97Napoli 233pad thai 234plum 236problem solving 522purees 522raspberry 256red wine 235remoulade 231sabayon 323, 522Sardalaise 522satay 238sweet and sour 241tartare 231teriyaki 242Thai chilli 243thickening 522toffee 251tomato 15Vincent 522white caper 245
sausage pinwheels 393sausage rolls 392
tomato relish with 41
sausages
caramelised onions with 21, 
147
chorizo, prawn and chilli 
frittata 451
Italian, with soft polenta 
213
mash and pepper sauce, with 
146
onion gravy 147
savoury muffins 381savoury scones 395scald 556scallops 526
see also seafoodcooking 526dried 526pancetta, scallop and sage 
frittata 451
scampi 526scones 394scrambled eggs 12, 487sea salt 521seafood 523–5
see also crab; fish; prawnsabalone 523allergies 537alternatives 538bacalao 523calamari 83, 526chowder 51cocktail sauce for 226crayfish 523–24crepes 77, 84cuttlefish 526gumbo 64jellyfish 524marinara mix 524marron 524mussels 524oysters 525pie 85rock lobster 526salt and pepper squid 82scallops 526scampi 526shark 526squid 83, 526yabbies 524
sear 556seitan 539sel gris 521self-raising flour 496semolina flour 496sesame oil 506seven-flavour spice 531shallot dressing 240shallots 507shallow-fry 556shepherd’s pie 127shiso 499sage (continued)General index 589shogi sticks 413
shrimp paste 239Sichuan pepper 531silk sugar 533smoked salt 521smoking 556smother 556snake beans 477snow eggs 380snow sugar 533soft icing mixture 533sorghum flour 496soufflé crepes baked in royale 
custard 285
soup
ajo blanco 55cauliflower 46chicken and sweet corn soup 
48
chicken soup with matzoh 
balls 50
crab chowder 51croutons for 52, 443French onion 52gazpacho 54minestrone 56miso 58mushroom 59pea and ham 60potato and leek 61pumpkin 62seafood chowder 51seafood gumbo 64tomato 66vegetable 69vegetable and barley 68vichyssoise 61
South Asian spices 527South-east Asian spices 527soy beans 476, 478soy flour 496soy sauce
dark 242tamari as substitute 207, 
242
spaghetti carbonara
creamy style 217traditional 216spanakopita 396
Spanish rice 518Spanish rice pudding 309spare ribs, barbecue-style 
110
spatchcock 514spelt flour 496spice (Sichuan) pepper 531spices 527–1spinach
bacon, spinach and goat’s 
cheese omelette 11
hortopita 397mushroom, tomato and 
spinach omelette 11
spanakopita 396sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach frittata 451
sponge cake 398spring onions 507spring rolls 218
satay dipping sauce 238
vegetarian 219
squid 83, 526
see also seafood
calamari distinguished 83, 
526
dried 527salt and pepper squid 82
star anise 531steak and kidney pie 148steamed ginger pudding 315steaming 556stevia 535stevioside 535stewing 556sticky date pudding 310stir-fry 556–7
chilli 171vegetable and noodle 170
stock
chicken 436dashi 446fish 447vegetable 472
stone ground flours 496strawberry
berries gratin 323
jam 418shortcake 339strawberry, grape and mango 
salad 7
summer pudding 312
stroganoff, beef 114strong flour 496stuffing
apple, prune and spice 430chestnut and wild mushroom 
431
onion and sage 431roast chicken, for 101
sucanat 535sucrose 535sugar 532–3
alternatives 534–5jams, in 559problem solving 532temperatures 534thermometers 559types, 532–3
sugar syrup 470, 533sumac 185, 531summer pudding 312superunsaturated fats 490sushi rice 517sweating 557sweet and sour sauce 241sweet potato 511
roasted vegetables 168soup 63varieties 511
sweeteners 534–5Swiss roll 400synthetic sweeteners 535syrup pudding 314
tabbouleh 200
table salt 521tamari 207, 242tamarind juice 243tamarind paste 239tapenade 36tartare sauce 231
crab cakes with 75The Basics: a really useful cookB ook 590tatsoi leaf 151
Thai beef salad 150
tea cake 402
tea, lemon and ginger 425teff flour 496tempeh 539teriyaki sauce 242Thai beef salad 150Thai chilli sauce 243thousand island dressing 226thousand-year eggs 489thyme 499tiramisu 316tiropita 397toffee 403toffee apples 403toffee sauce 251tofu 539
egg alternative 489mayonnaise 231meat alternative 539miso soup 58
togarashi 531tomatoes 536
bolognaise sauce 116chilli jam 22chutney 38gazpacho 54Greek salad 186green tomato chutney 39green tomato jam 42green tomato relish 41Napoli sauce 233panzanella 192passata 15, 169pasta salad 194relish 40roasted vegetables 169sauce 15slow-roasted 14soup 66sundried tomato, mushroom 
and spinach frittata 451
types 536
trans fatty acids 490trifle 318tropical salad 7tuna
bake 86Niçoise salad 190omega-3 fatty acids 490panzanella 193tapenade and tuna pasta 
sauce 37
tapenade made with 37
turbinado sugar 533turkey 514
apple, prune and spice 
stuffing 430
chef’s salad 180chestnut and wild rice 
stuffing 431
club sandwich 440cooking 105onion and sage stuffing 431quince paste with 33roast turkey buffet 104
TVP (textured vegetable 
protein) 539
tzatziki 43
utensils 548vacherins 380
vanilla slice 404vanilla sugar 471veal
Cordon Bleu 153crumbing 502Holstein 153Jäger 153osso buco 134schnitzel 152white braising 557
vegetable and barley soup 68vegetable and noodle stir-fry 
170
satay sauce 238
vegetable fat 490vegetable soup 68vegetable stock 472vegetables, pickled 162vegetables, roasted 168vegetarian lasagne 172
leftover ratatouille 167
vegetarian spring rolls 219vichyssoise 61vinaigrette dressing 246
walnuts 331
baklava 330
whisking 323
white beans 478white braising 557white caper sauce 245white Christmas 347white onions 508white rice 518white sauce 244wholemeal flour 496wild rice 199, 519
chestnut and wild rice 
stuffing 431
wok 546wok-cooking 556–7
xantham gum 537yabbies 524
yellow bean paste 243yoghurt
dressing 247tzatziki 43, 321yoghurt and lemon mousse 
320
Yorkshire pudding 139
za’atar 499, 531
zabaglione 322, 522zomi (palm oil) 507zucchini
olive, fetta and zucchini 
frittata 451
ratatouille 166roasted vegetables 169salting 167slice 175