Introduction11
I ﬁrst discovered spiralizing  about three years ago, but it wasn’t spiralizing as 
I know it today. My mom used a julienne slicer to cut super-thin sheets of zucchini 
into lasagna-like sheets, and then she cut them into noodles with a knife. She threw 
them into a pan with olive oil and garlic, quickly sautéing them the way we used to 
do with spaghetti aglio e olio  (or “emergency pasta,” as we call it in my family).
We called them zucchini noodles, because that’s what they were, but I don’t 
think we had any idea just how many veggie-to-noodle options were out there. 
Then, a few years later, I got a handheld spiral veggie slicer; it was perfect for zuc -
chini and carrots—really anything round, long, and skinny enough to ﬁt. And ﬁnally, 
I upgraded the handheld spiralizer for an upright one, which opened a whole new 
world of spiralizing possibilities. My spiralizer now sits on my kitchen counter and 
gets used at least twice a week.
Spiralizing veggies and the Paleo diet go hand in hand for so many reasons, but 
the biggest one for me is that I miss pasta (and noodles in general). My mom’s side 
of the family is Italian, and my brother and I grew up eating pasta all the time. Our 
favorite meals were pasta, with pesto, with tomato sauce, with meatballs—every  
way you can imagine it, we had it. These days, I’ll occasionally have a cheat meal  
of rice noodles, such as takeout beef chow fun or chicken pad thai, and sometimes 
I’ll even pick up gluten-free pasta from the grocery store when I’m really feeling 
that pasta craving, but it’s nice to be able to stick to Paleo eating and make noodles 
out of veggies instead.
Spiralizing is a great way to experiment with diﬀerent vegetables, as well.  
Turnips and daikon radishes are not usually vegetables I reach for at the market, 
but armed with my spiralizer, suddenly everything is a delicious experiment, and  
I can’t wait to get new veggies back to my kitchen and see what kind of noodles 
they yield. You also get a lot “more” veggie when you spiralize it. As someone with 
a huge appetite, I really appreciate generous servings, especially when I’m trying  
to eat more reasonable portion sizes.
Whether you have serious feelings for noodles (as I do) or not, spiralizing is a 
great way to add some variety to your Paleo diet—and let’s face it, the Paleo diet is 
great for your health, but it’s easy to slowly but surely ﬁnd yourself in a rut with the 
same old reliable meals. Spiralizing expands your culinary horizons and breaks you 
out of your routine. Between the diﬀerent noodles you can make (ribbon noo -
dles, fettuccini, spaghetti, etc.) and all the vegetables out there just waiting to be 
spiralized, there is no limit to ﬂavor, texture, or variety. If you can peel it or slice it, 
chances are you can spiralize it.
Well, what are we waiting for? Let’s get to it.READY, SET, 
SPIRALIZE13Spiralizing is one of my favorite ways to eat vegetables.  
Who doesn’t love a big bowl of noodles? I also think it’s 
one of the easiest ways to prepare vegetables—you don’t have 
to do any chopping or slicing, and the spiralizing itself is done 
in a ﬂash.
While developing the recipes for this book, I had the best time 
coming up with dishes that are quick and easy but also ﬂavor -
ful and creative. I’ve loved being able to combine two of my 
food passions—the Paleo diet and noodles—to create this book.
Within these pages, you’ll ﬁnd breakfast dishes, dinners, light 
lunches, and creative and exciting snacks with plenty of varia -
tions that will ensure you never get bored of eating Paleo food.  
Several of the recipes are quick—most of them are 30 minutes  
and under, and those are labeled as such. You’ll also ﬁnd labels 
for dairy-free, nut-free, vegan, and raw recipes, but every rec -
ipe you encounter in the following chapters is 100 percent 
Paleo as well.
One of the things I love about spiralizing is how creative and 
fun it can be, so I hope you take these recipes and run with 
them—try them all, and then use your newfound knowledge 
to create your own fun, healthy, and colorful veggie noodle 
recipes.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
14Why This Book
This book has a couple of goals: First and foremost, The Big 10  aims to provide you with 
a wide variety of solid, delicious recipes for spiralized vegetables that will keep you 
excited about the Paleo diet, your spiralizer, and all that each has to oﬀer. And I also 
want to uncover the wonderful, bonus result of spiralizing, which is being able to consis -
tently feed yourself healthy meals without ever getting bored.
When your diet consists of the same old chicken, broccoli, and roasted sweet pota -
toes, it doesn’t take long before you start craving new ﬂavors and textures. Here you’ll 
ﬁnd innovative recipes and fun variations that will ensure that you don’t ever have to 
make the same thing two nights in a row . . . unless you discover a favorite that you can’t 
get enough of, in which case I say go for it!
You might notice that a few chapters have more recipes than others, which was 
done intentionally—zucchini and summer squash are extremely versatile and more  
commonly spiralized than, say, turnips. Although all of the vegetables in this book  
are delicious in their spiralized form, the longest chapter will focus on zucchini and 
summer squash.
Like in The Big 15 Paleo Cookbook , the variations you’ll ﬁnd after each recipe make 
it easy to throw together a great meal with whatever you have on hand, taking the stress 
out of meal planning and saving you those little one- or two-ingredient trips to the store. 
I want to encourage you to experiment—that’s what’s so great about veggie noodles! 
Once you learn how to prepare them, you can start getting creative when it comes to 
seasoning, sauces, protein pairings, and so much more.
THE GREAT SPIRALIZER CHEAT SHEET
One of my favorite things about spiralizing 
(and Paleo in general) is that you can cook a 
wide variety of dishes without ever really using 
a recipe. This little cheat sheet is here for 
those nights when you want to make some -
thing quick and healthy but don’t have a ton 
of ingredients in your fridge. Do some mixing 
and matching and come up with something 
totally delicious and easy, every time.
NOODLES:  ribbon noodles (blade A), fettuc -
cini (blade B), linguini (blade C), or spaghetti 
(blade D). VEGETABLES:  zucchini, carrots, sweet potatoes, 
cucumber, butternut squash
PROTEIN:  baked chicken, meatballs, grilled 
fish, Italian sausage, sliced pork
SAUCE:  tomato sauce, pesto, creamy  
Alfredo (see page 28), balsamic vinaigrette,  
(see page 47) chili sesame vinaigrette 
TOPPING:  sliced olives, sliced green onion, 
sesame seeds, crushed almonds, fresh herbsREADY , S ET, SPI RALIZ E
15The 10
As you’ve most likely already noticed, we’re going to focus on 10 major vegetables in this 
book. Each chapter will give you the knowledge you’ll need to spiralize and prepare the 
vegetable, followed by easy-to-prepare recipes. You’ll also ﬁnd two variations after each 
recipe, because I like options, and I think you will, too.
THE VEGG IES
These are the vegetables that make up the Big 10—they’re the ones that stand up best 
to a spiralizer, and I think you’ll ﬁnd yourself spiralizing them again and again. In each 
chapter I’ll let you know which blade on the spiralizer works best for each particular 
recipe, but all of the noodle shapes work well, so ﬁnd your favorites and have fun with it.
 ■Zucchini and summer squash
 ■Beets
 ■Carrots
 ■Butternut squash
 ■Sweet potatoes ■Cucumbers
 ■Broccoli
 ■Turnips
 ■Cabbage
 ■Bell peppers
I personally use zucchini, carrots, and cucumbers the most, but all of the vegetables 
we’ll be using yield gorgeous noodles, so try them all and discover your favorites.
The ﬁnal chapter, “Pantry Basics,” features ﬁve bonus recipes for homemade staples 
to use in your Paleo pantry, such as condiments, sauces, dressings, and quick pickles, all 
of which will enhance your kitchen repertoire and add an extra element of ﬂavor to your 
favorite dishes.
BEYON D THE B ASES
Here’s a working list of some of the non-spiralized ingredients I use the most. The items 
listed here are those that appear most frequently in this book of recipes, so you can 
stock your kitchen and get cooking right away!
Proteins
Because the main ingredient of every recipe in this book is a vegetable, many of the 
recipes are vegetarian, or they can be made vegetarian easily. But another big part of 
the Paleo diet is meat, so we’re going to be using a lot of the following proteins:
 ■Chicken
 ■Beef
 ■Pork ■Fish
 ■Shrimp
 ■EggsTHE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
16Herbs and Spices
I use fresh herbs as much as possible (usually rosemary, basil, sage, cilantro, thyme, and 
parsley), but it’s great to keep dried herbs on hand as well for convenience and consistency,  
especially those that might not always be available fresh, such as thyme and oregano, and 
some that really come through in a pinch, like garlic powder.
 ■Cayenne pepper
 ■Chili seasoning
 ■Cumin, ground and seeds
 ■Curry powder
 ■Garlic powder
 ■Onion powder ■Oregano, dried
 ■Paprika, ground
 ■Red pepper ﬂakes
 ■Taco seasoning (page 155)
 ■Thyme, ground
Other Vegetables
Some of the recipes will incorporate other veggies that aren’t spiralized. Here’s a good idea 
of what I usually have on hand to make many of the dishes you’ll ﬁnd in this book, as well 
as other everyday recipes I just kind of throw together.
 ■Onions (red and yellow—avoid sweet 
varieties)
 ■Celery
 ■Carrots (not just for spiralizing—they 
make a great aromatic beginning to 
most dishes)
 ■Tomatoes (fresh and canned—check 
canned tomato labels for added sugar) ■Spinach, kale, arugula, or salad mix  
(I like to keep a bag of one of these 
in my fridge and throw a handful into 
most dishes right before serving)
 ■Green onions
 ■Brussels sprouts
 ■Cauliﬂower
Pantry Items
In addition to fresh produce, meats, and spices, many of the recipes call for the pantry 
basics outlined here.
 ■Chili garlic oil or chili garlic sauce
 ■Ghee
 ■Grass-fed butter
 ■Olive oil, extra-virgin ■Paleo mayo (page 154)
 ■Nuts: almonds, cashews, pine nuts, 
pistachios, and walnuts
 ■Sesame oil
Recipe labels
For your convenience, each recipe is paired with appropriate labels to help you decide 
what to make at a glance.
DF Dairy-Free
NF Nut-Free
R Raw30 30 minutes or less
V VeganREADY , S ET, SPI RALIZ E
17Blades of Glory
There are a few diﬀerent kinds of spiralizers out there, and most of them will work  
well with the recipes in this book. It sounds silly, but my life has really changed since  
I bought a good spiralizer. Before, I was getting by with a handheld model or slicing  
noodles freestyle, with a knife, which was time-consuming and didn’t oﬀer much variety.
Choose a spiralizer with easy-to-change blades so you can switch up your noodles 
and keep food-related boredom at bay. They’re generally labeled A, B, C, and D.
I use the Inspiralizer brand, but other great choices include Paderno, SpiraLife, 
Brieftons, and many more. The blades may diﬀer in some ways, but overall, they have 
the same oﬀerings. This is how we’ll refer to them in this book:
Blade A:  Ribbon Noodles—very wide and ﬂat, 1⁄2" diameter
Blade B:  Fettuccini—wide and ﬂat, 1⁄ 4" diameter*
Blade C:  Linguini—semi-wide and round, 1⁄ 4" diameter*
Blade D:  Spaghetti—round and thin, 1⁄8" diameter
You may need to consult your manual to see which noodle and blade is which.  
A lot of the recipes, Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo (page 28) or Zucchini Spaghetti and 
Clams (page 33), for example, call for a speciﬁc noodle size, but I love experimenting 
with diﬀerent shapes. For a long time, I thought blade D was my favorite, but now my 
go-to is blade C!
Keep in mind that noodles of diﬀerent sizes will have diﬀerent cooking times—  
ribbon noodles (A) will cook much more quickly than linguini (C) or spaghetti (D). You 
can pick a favorite and stick with it, but this book is going to have you switching it up  
a lot, and I encourage you to go with it! 
*  Even though these blades are the same size, they create two distinct shapes that will cook  
quite diﬀerently!
1
ZUCCHINI  
AND SUMMER 
SQUASH19Zucchini is the original vegetable for spiralizing, in my 
mind—they even have their own name! We call them zoo -
dles instead of noodles. It was the ﬁrst veggie noodle I ever 
encountered, and I think that’s probably true for most people, 
so that’s where we’re going to start. In this chapter, you’ll ﬁnd 
20 delicious zucchini and summer squash noodle recipes that 
are sure to make you miss conventional pasta a lot less. From 
fettuccini Alfredo to Cincinnati chili to Vietnamese pho soup, 
you’ll be covered with this mammoth collection of zoodle and 
summer squash noodle recipes.
A lot of people swear by liberally salting their zucchini 
noodles and letting them “sweat” in a colander for 20 to 
30 minutes before rinsing with water and gently drying with  
a towel. The point of this is to help them stay “al dente” in  
texture, closer to that of regular pasta. I agree that it helps 
keep them crunchy when you cook them, but I don’t always  
do it—so if you have extra time, you can go for it, but none 
of the recipes I’ve written rely on this step to make or break 
them. Zucchini noodles take only a few minutes to cook, 
though, so you could always sweat them as you’re making  
the rest of the dish—again, it’s up to you.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
20PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
DF NF
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ medium yellow onion,  
chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 large zucchini, spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
6 eggs
½ cup cherry tomatoes, halved
Sliced green onion, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 174,  
Fat 14g, Protein 9g, Sodium 390mg,  
Total Carbs 5g, Fiber 1g1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. In a medium cast iron skillet over medium heat, heat the olive 
oil and sauté the onion and garlic until tender, about 5 minutes. 
Add the zucchini noodles and stir gently. Season with salt 
and pepper.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs.
4. Arrange the onion and the zucchini noodles so they’re evenly 
spread out in the skillet. Slowly pour the eggs in and increase 
the heat to medium-high. Season with salt and pepper and allow 
to cook until the edges start to pull away from the skillet, 3 to 
4 minutes.
5. Add the cherry tomatoes to the skillet and transfer to the oven. 
Cook until the top is no longer runny, 15 to 20 minutes. 
6. Remove from the oven, allow to cool slightly, and serve gar -
nished with sliced green onion.
 VARIATION 1  BLT ZUCCHINI NOODLE FRITTATA:  Add 3 or 
4 slices chopped bacon to the skillet (eliminate the olive oil) and 
sauté with the onions and garlic. Follow the rest of the original 
recipe as written. Top the sliced frittata with a handful of chopped 
lettuce instead of green onion. (You could even add a drizzle of 
Paleo Ranch Dressing—page 154.)
 VARIATION 2  PIZZA FRITTATA:  Add 1⁄2 cup chopped pepperoni 
to the onion, garlic, and zucchini. Follow the rest of the original 
recipe and serve with a side of pizza sauce (just make sure there’s 
no added sugar).ROASTED TOMATO and ZUCCHINI NOODLE FRITTATA
I love one-pan dishes a lot. Maybe it’s because I’m lazy and don’t want 
to have a lot to clean up, but a big part of it is that I think there is so 
much ﬂavor when you cook everything in the same pan. This frittata is 
delicious and easy to make, and the addition of zucchini noodles ups the 
veggie content in an interesting and ﬂavorful way. This is a go-to breakfast 
recipe in my house, especially if we’re having guests. There’s just something 
fancy about a frittata. SERVES 2 TO 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
21PREP TIME:  20 minutes 
DF NF V R 30
4 or 5 summer squash, 
spiralized
1 cup cherry tomatoes, sliced
2 avocados, diced
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼ cup balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 garlic clove, minced
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 317  
Fat 30g, Protein 4g, Sodium 246mg,  
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 7g1. In a large bowl, mix to combine the squash noodles with the 
cherry tomatoes and avocado.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, 
Dijon mustard, and garlic. Season with salt and pepper and drizzle 
over the salad. Toss to combine and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  SUMMER SQUASH NOODLE SALAD WITH 
CILANTRO-LIME DRESSING:  Instead of balsamic vinaigrette, toss 
this salad in a cilantro-lime dressing: Mix 1⁄2 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil with 1⁄4 cup freshly squeezed lime juice and 2 to 3 tablespoons 
chopped fresh cilantro.
 VARIATION 2  SUMMER SQUASH SALAD WITH GREENS:  Skip the 
tomatoes and add 1 to 2 cups fresh arugula or spinach (or a mix) to 
this salad. Top with 1⁄4 cup sliced almonds.SUMMER SQUASH NOODLE SALAD  
with TOMATO and AVOCADO
This salad is perfect for spring and summer—the zucchini noodles are 
raw, so everything is super crunchy and fresh. If you’ve been salting 
your squash noodles before cooking up until this point, now is a good time  
to skip it. Just give the summer squash a rinse before spiralizing, and it’ll be 
ready to go! I love the addition of balsamic vinaigrette to these vegetables, 
but you could mix it up however you like (I’ve included one idea in the ﬁrst 
variation)! SERVES 4 TO 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
22PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes,  
plus 10 to 15 minutes to rest
DF V 30
3 or 4 large zucchini, spiralized
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
¼ cup pine nuts
1½ cups lightly packed fresh 
basil, chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 206  
Fat 21g, Protein 3g, Sodium 207mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 2g1. Place the zucchini noodles in a large bowl.
2. In a small bowl, mix to combine the olive oil and garlic. 
3. In a small, dry pan over medium-low heat, toast the pine nuts, 
stirring frequently until fragrant, about 3 minutes, and quickly 
remove from the heat. Add them to the zucchini noodles and toss 
to combine. Dress the salad with the garlicky olive oil. Toss again.
4. Add the chopped basil to the salad and toss to combine.  
Season with salt and pepper. Allow to rest for 10 to 15 minutes 
(more if possible) before serving.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN ZUCCHINI RIBBON SALAD WITH PINE 
NUTS AND BASIL:  Serve this salad topped with 1⁄2 pound grilled 
chicken breast slices. To grill the chicken, brush with olive oil 
and season with salt and pepper. Cook on a grill or grill pan over 
medium heat for 8 to 10 minutes per side, until completely opaque 
and the juices run clear.
 VARIATION 2  ZUCCHINI RIBBON SALAD WITH LEMON  
AND DILL:  Dress the zucchini noodles with garlic olive oil as 
directed in original recipe, omit the basil, and add the juice  
of 1 lemon and 2 tablespoons fresh chopped dill. Season with  
salt and pepper. Toss to combine and allow to rest for 10 to  
15 minutes before serving.ZUCCHINI RIBBON SALAD with PINE NUTS and BASIL
This salad is kind of a deconstructed pesto dish—I’ve always loved  
that pesto is a raw sauce. The zucchini noodles for this dish are cut in 
ribbons, and we’re going to dress it with olive oil, a little bit of garlic, some 
toasted pine nuts, and plenty of fresh basil. It’s delicious any time of year,  
but especially in the warmer months. SERVES 4 TO 6ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
23PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
NF 30
2 tablespoons grass-fed butter
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 medium celery stalks, diced
1 large carrot, chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
4 cups chicken (or beef) broth
4 summer squash, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 142  
Fat 8g, Protein 8g, Sodium 1,133mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 3g1. In a large pot over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté the 
onion and garlic until the onion is tender, 5 to 7 minutes, or until 
the veggies become fork-tender.
2. Add the celery and carrot and cook for another 5 to 7 minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper. Pour the chicken broth over the 
vegetables and stir. Bring to a simmer.
3. While the broth is boiling, cut your squash noodles into 3-inch 
pieces. Tie each one into a knot (to resemble a tortellini). Gently 
lower the squash noodle tortellini into the broth and cook for 2 to 
3 minutes. Don’t fret if a few of them open up.
4. Ladle the soup into bowls and enjoy hot.
 VARIATION 1  VEGETARIAN “TORTELLINI” SOUP:  Make this soup 
vegetarian by using veggie broth instead of chicken broth.
 VARIATION 2  “TORTELLINI” SOUP WITH CHICKEN:  After adding 
the broth to the pot, add 1 diced boneless chicken breast to the 
pot. Cook until the meat is completely opaque, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Follow the remaining original recipe steps as listed.“TORTELLINI” SOUP
Sometimes I wonder if my perception of “comfort food” is skewed 
because I ate so much pasta as a kid. I don’t really remember eating 
chicken noodle soup when I was sick, but my mom would pour chicken broth 
over tortellini and top it with so much delicious, salty Parmesan cheese that it 
would sink to the bottom of my mug and get stuck on the back of my spoon. 
This “tortellini” soup is actually missing the tortellini, since cheese isn’t Paleo, 
but the little summer squash knots are super cute, and the broth is just as 
good as it always was. SERVES 2 TO 4 THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
24PREP TIME:  15 minutes 
COOK TIME:  6 hours, 
40 minutes
DF NF
About 4 pounds beef 
soup bones
1 medium yellow onion, halved
2 garlic cloves, sliced
2 or 3 star anise pods
2 to 3 tablespoons peeled, 
sliced fresh ginger
2 to 3 tablespoons ﬁsh sauce
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
4 quarts water
1 to 2 pounds beef sirloin, 
sliced very thin
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
TOPPINGS FOR SOUP
chopped fresh cilantro, sliced 
green onion, bean sprouts, 
chopped fresh Thai (or regular) 
basil, lime wedges, chili garlic 
oil or chili garlic sauce
PER SERVING Calories 499  
Fat 15g, Protein 75g, Sodium 1,500,  
Total Carbs 11g, Fiber 3g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Spread the bones and onion out on a large baking pan and 
roast for 40 minutes to 1 hour. (This step is optional but really 
brings out a lot of the ﬂavor in the beef broth.)
3. Put the bones and onion in a large stock pot with the garlic, 
star anise, ginger, ﬁsh sauce, and some salt and pepper. Cover 
everything with the water and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat 
to low and allow the pot to simmer for at least 6 hours, or up to 
24 hours. Strain the broth and use immediately, or refrigerate  
until ready to serve.
4. Bring the broth to a simmer and add the sliced beef. While the 
beef is cooking, divide the zucchini noodles among 2 to 4 serving 
bowls. Once the beef is pink (should take 5 to 7 minutes), spoon 
broth over the noodles and top the soup with cooked beef. Add 
cilantro, green onion, bean sprouts, basil, lime, and chili garlic oil 
as desired and serve.
 VARIATION 1  QUICKER PHO:  Use store-bought beef broth if you 
don’t have time to make the broth yourself—just quickly char the 
onion, garlic, and other spices in a dry skillet before transferring 
to a large pot. Pour the beef broth overtop and bring everything 
to a simmer. Strain the broth and proceed as directed in the 
original recipe.
 VARIATION 2  ZUCCHINI NOODLE PHO WITH MUSHROOMS AND 
BOK CHOY:  Add 10 ounces sliced mushrooms and 1 1⁄2 cups baby 
bok choy to the broth. Follow the remaining recipe as written.ZUCCHINI NOODLE PHO
One of my all-time favorite things to eat on a chilly afternoon is a  
big, hot bowl of pho. My friend Corri and I used to meet at different 
Vietnamese restaurants and chow down on rice noodles, deliciously savory 
broth, and all the fresh toppings like bean sprouts, jalapeños, and basil leaves. 
My mouth is watering just thinking about it! I wanted to include a Paleo recipe 
for pho so I wouldn’t always be relying on takeout (and rice noodles) to 
satisfy my craving. SERVES 2 TO 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
25PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
DF NF V 30
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 or 3 garlic cloves, minced
2 or 3 large zucchini or 
summer squash, spiralized
¼ cup coconut aminos
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
3 to 4 tablespoons sesame oil
½ teaspoon chili garlic oil
Salt, if needed 
Freshly ground black pepper, 
if needed
Sliced green onion, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 234  
Fat 22g, Protein 2g, Sodium 266mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the garlic for 1 to 2 minutes. Add the zucchini noodles and sauté 
for 3 to 4 minutes or until the noodles start to become fork-tender. 
Remove from the heat.
2. While the noodles are cooking, mix the coconut aminos, rice 
vinegar, sesame oil, and chili garlic oil together. Taste and season 
with salt and pepper if necessary.
3. Transfer the noodles to a large bowl, pour the sesame sauce 
over them, and toss to combine. Serve garnished with sliced 
green onion.
 VARIATION 1  PORK BELLY SESAME NOODLES:  Instead of 
using olive oil, pan-fry about 1⁄2 pound diced pork belly over 
medium-high heat for 4 to 5 minutes, until crispy and browned, 
before adding the garlic. Follow the remaining recipe steps as writ -
ten. (If you can’t ﬁnd pork belly, use pork loin marinated in some 
extra chili garlic oil.)
 VARIATION 2  SESAME NOODLES WITH KIMCHI:  Top this recipe 
with as much Kimchi Cabbage Noodles (page 138) as you’d like.EASY SESAME NOODLES
This is one of my all-time favorite recipes. Before my Paleo days, I’d 
whip this up with regular old spaghetti and it was always so good.  
The sauce is more of a dressing than anything else, and all you have to do is 
quickly pan-fry the zucchini noodles before tossing it all together. There’s just 
something about hot, fresh sesame noodles served straight out of the pan 
that really speaks to me. SERVES 2 TO 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
26PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 or 2 Thai chiles, seeded and 
chopped (depending on how 
spicy you like it)
2 or 3 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped
¼ cup green bell pepper, 
sliced thin
3 tablespoons coconut aminos
2 tablespoons ﬁsh sauce
1 teaspoon honey (optional)
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
2 or 3 plum 
tomatoes, chopped
1 cup lightly packed fresh basil 
leaves, chopped
Lime wedges, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 246  
Fat 15g, Protein 7g, Sodium 1,442mg,  
Total Carbs 27g, Fiber 6g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the garlic until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the chiles, green 
onions, and bell pepper. Give it a stir and cook until the vegeta -
bles are tender, about 5 minutes.
2. Add the coconut aminos, ﬁsh sauce, and honey (if using) to the 
skillet. Stir until combined. Add the zucchini noodles and toma -
toes, stirring until everything is coated in sauce and the noodles 
are done, about 5 minutes. 
3. Turn oﬀ the heat and stir in the chopped basil leaves. Serve 
immediately with the lime wedges.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN AND SHRIMP DRUNKEN NOODLES:  
Sauté 1⁄2 pound diced chicken and 1⁄2 pound shrimp in the pan 
with the garlic. (The chicken should be cooked through in about 
7 to 8 minutes, and you can add the shrimp about halfway through 
that cooking time, remembering to ﬂip the shrimp after 2 minutes.) 
Add the rest of the veggies and follow the original recipe—you may 
need to add a bit more coconut aminos and ﬁsh sauce, depending 
on how saucy you like your dish.
 VARIATION 2  SPICY BEEF DRUNKEN NOODLES:  Thinly slice a 
sirloin steak and marinate it with coconut aminos and a teaspoon 
of crushed red pepper for 20 minutes. Sauté the meat with the 
garlic and other veggies. Follow the rest of the original recipe  
as written.DRUNKEN ZUCCHINI NOODLES
I included a Paleo pad thai recipe in my ﬁrst book, so this time I wanted 
to share with you my drunken noodles, which always remind me of my 
best friend, Tina. She and I always eat Thai food whenever we’re together—  
it’s kind of our go-to, and neither of us can get enough of it (something our 
husbands both ﬁnd a bit tedious). This recipe skips the rice noodles in 
exchange for zucchini ones, but it has all the spicy, delicious ﬂavor of the 
original. SERVES 2ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
27PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
8 ounces ﬂank steak, 
sliced thin 
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon peeled fresh 
ginger, sliced thin
4 or 5 green onions, chopped
2 or 3 heads baby bok choy, 
quartered
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
1 tablespoon rice vinegar
3 to 4 tablespoons 
coconut aminos
4 to 6 ounces bean sprouts 
(omit if strict Paleo)
Salt (if needed)
Freshly ground black pepper 
(if needed)
PER SERVING Calories 279  
Fat 16g, Protein 22g, Sodium 996mg,  
Total Carbs 15g, Fiber 4g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat 1  tablespoon of 
the olive oil. Add the steak and cook until browned, about 5 min -
utes. Remove from the skillet and set aside.
2. Lower the heat to medium and add the remaining 2 table -
spoons of olive oil. Stir in the garlic and ginger and allow to cook 
for about 1 minute. Add the green onions and bok choy and cook 
for another 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Add the zucchini noodles to the pan and stir. Pour in the rice 
vinegar and coconut aminos and toss to combine. Add the bean 
sprouts and allow everything to cook together until the zucchini 
noodles are tender, 3 to 4 minutes. Return the beef to the skillet  
to reheat, 1 to 2 minutes before serving.
4. Season with salt and pepper, if necessary, and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN CHOW FUN:  Instead of beef, use 8 ounces 
sliced boneless chicken breast. Follow the recipe as written, but 
allow extra cooking time (just a few more minutes) for the chicken 
to become completely opaque.
 VARIATION 2  VEGGIE CHOW FUN (WITH EGG):  Skip the meat 
and add 2 spiralized or julienned carrots and 1 sliced red bell pep -
per to the skillet with the garlic and ginger. Before serving, either 
move all the ingredients to the side and scramble an egg in the 
open space of the pan, incorporating it into the rest of the ingre -
dients, or plate the dish, fry a few eggs in the pan, and top each 
serving with a fried egg.BEEF CHOW FUN
Beef chow fun is my most recent favorite Chinese dish—I love the wide, 
ﬂat noodles that are almost slippery against my rough chopsticks. It’s a 
little bit like lo mein, but chow fun uses rice noodles instead of wheat ones, 
which is how I started ordering it soon after my husband and I moved to 
California from North Carolina. We’ve moved quite a few times, and we always 
say it’s not home until you have a Chinese takeout place. This Paleo beef 
chow fun uses zucchini fettuccini noodles instead of rice noodles, and you can 
make it at home no matter where you live. SERVES 2 TO 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
28PREP TIME:  10 minutes, plus 
6 hours or overnight to soak
COOK TIME:  45 minutes
2 cups raw cashews
1 large head garlic
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 tablespoon grass-fed butter
¼ cup minced shallot
1½ to 2 cups coconut or 
almond milk
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
4 large zucchini, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 777  
Fat 67g, Protein 17g, Sodium 306mg,  
Total Carbs 40g, Fiber 7g1. In a large bowl, cover the cashews with water and soak for  
at least 6 hours. You can do this overnight so they’re ready  
when you are.
2. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
3. Cut oﬀ and discard the top of the head of garlic, place the 
garlic on a baking sheet, and drizzle with the olive oil. Wrap in foil 
and bake for about 40 minutes, until golden and the cloves in the 
center pierce easily with a knife.
4. A few minutes before the garlic is done roasting, in a large skil -
let over medium heat, melt the butter and sauté the shallot until 
translucent, about 4 minutes. Set the skillet aside.
5. Put the drained cashews in a food processor with the roasted 
garlic—just pop the cloves out of the skin. Add the sautéed shallot 
and 1 1⁄2 cups of the coconut milk and blend. Adjust the amount of 
coconut milk depending on how thin or thick you like your sauce. 
Season with salt and pepper.
6. In the skillet you used for the shallot, over medium-high heat, 
quickly sauté the zucchini noodles until fork-tender, 3 to 4 min -
utes. Season with salt and pepper. 
7. Add as much sauce as desired, mix well, and serve warm.CREAMY FETTUCCINI ALFREDO
I know what you’re thinking: How can a cream sauce like Alfredo be 
made Paleo? I used to wonder the same thing, until I discovered the 
magical creamy properties that cashews have. Making the sauce itself is 
quicker than it seems—if you soak the cashews overnight and roast the garlic 
ahead of time, all you have to do is throw everything into the food processor 
or blender and serve. Plan ahead a bit and enjoy this super-easy Paleo 
fettuccini Alfredo! SERVES 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
29ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
29 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN ALFREDO:  While the garlic is roasting, 
sauté 1 pound diced chicken in a skillet over medium heat with 
about 1 tablespoon olive oil until cooked through, 7 to 8 minutes. 
Add the cooked chicken to the zucchini noodles and sauce before 
serving.
 VARIATION 2  FETTUCCINI ALFREDO WITH SHRIMP:  Sauté  
1 pound shrimp in a skillet over medium heat with 1 tablespoon 
olive oil, an extra clove of minced garlic, and a squeeze of fresh 
lemon juice, about 2 minutes per side. Top the zucchini fettuccini 
Alfredo with shrimp and garnish with 1 tablespoon chopped fresh 
parsley before serving.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
30PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter 
or extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium yellow onion,  
chopped
2 or 3 garlic cloves, minced
2 or 3 celery stalks, chopped
2 to 4 carrots, chopped
1 pound ground beef 
(preferably grass-fed)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes (no sugar added)
3 or 4 large zucchini, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 439  
Fat 16g, Protein 43g, Sodium 881mg,  
Total Carbs 32g, Fiber 11g1. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté 
the onion, stirring regularly, until it becomes translucent and starts 
to caramelize, 8 to 10 minutes. Add the garlic and stir well before 
adding the celery and carrot. Cook another 5 to 7 minutes or until 
the veggies become fork-tender.
2. Move the sautéed vegetables to the edges of the pot, opening 
up a space in the center. Put the ground beef in the center of the 
pot and mix it up as it begins to brown. After a few minutes, start 
incorporating the vegetables into the beef and stir everything 
together. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Pour the crushed tomatoes into the pot, give it a stir, and bring 
the whole thing to a simmer before reducing the heat to low. Fill 
the tomato can halfway with water, and pour it into the pot. Stir 
again and reduce, cooking down the amount of liquid, for 10 to 
15 minutes. If the sauce seems too thick, add more water.
4. In a large skillet over medium heat, sauté the zucchini  
fettuc  cini for 3 to 4 minutes, or until tender. Season with salt  
and pepper. 
5. Transfer the noodles to plates or bowls, spoon the Bolognese 
overtop, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  PANCETTA BOLOGNESE:  Add about 4 ounces diced 
pancetta to the pot with the onion and garlic. Follow steps 3 to 
5 of the recipe as written.
 VARIATION 2  MUSHROOM BOLOGNESE:  Add 10 ounces sliced 
mushrooms to the pot with the onion. Sauté until they begin to 
get brown and crispy, 7 to 8 minutes, and then add the rest of the 
veggies, followed by the beef, and ﬁnish the recipe as written.FETTUCCINI BOLOGNESE
When I think about Italian comfort food, hearty meat and tomato sauce 
comes to mind. Sure, spaghetti and meatballs are great, but there’s just 
something about a thick sauce where everything is incorporated already. You 
won’t miss the cream in this rich Paleo take on classic Bolognese! SERVES 2 TO 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
31PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
DF NF 30
6 to 8 ounces diced pancetta
½ medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 tablespoons 
coconut cream
1 egg plus 1 egg yolk
Fresh parsley, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 402  
Fat 30g, Protein 25g, Sodium 1,636mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, cook the pancetta until 
it begins to crisp, about 5 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to trans -
fer the pancetta to a paper towel–lined plate. Add the onion and 
garlic to the skillet and cook until golden, stirring frequently, about 
5 minutes.
2. Add the zucchini noodles to the skillet and sauté until tender, 
about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper and reduce the 
heat to low.
3. In a small bowl, whisk the coconut cream, whole egg, and egg 
yolk. Season with salt and pepper.
4. Slowly pour the egg mixture over the zucchini noodles, mixing 
or tossing constantly with a spoon or tongs. (You want the mixture 
to become a creamy sauce that coats the noodles without the eggs 
scrambling.)
5. To serve, transfer the zucchini noodles to bowls or plates and 
top with pancetta and a sprinkle of fresh parsley.
 VARIATION 1  SPAGHETTI CARBONARA WITH PEAS:  Add 1⁄2 cup 
green peas (thawed if frozen) to the skillet with the zucchini noo -
dles. Follow the rest of the recipe as written.
 VARIATION 2  SPAGHETTI CARBONARA WITH CHICKEN:  For 
an additional boost of protein, add about 1 pound diced boneless 
chicken breast to the skillet with the onions and pancetta. Cook, 
stirring frequently, until the chicken is cooked through and the 
onions are golden, 6 to 8 minutes, and then follow the remaining 
steps of the recipe as written.GUILTLESS SPAGHETTI CARBONARA
Is there anything more comforting or indulgent than spaghetti carbo -
nara? I really don’t think so. This creamy, egg yolk–based sauce is 
loaded with pancetta for a beautiful depth of ﬂavor. Coconut cream makes 
this Paleo version dairy-free, but it keeps the fat content nice and high so  
you get a truly luxurious dish. This is one of my favorite dishes to make for 
friends—it’s super easy to throw together, but it’s impressive to serve, so I  
like that it’s as special as it is delicious. SERVES 2 TO 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
32PREP TIME:  10 minutes, plus 
several hours or overnight to 
marinate
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V
½ cup pitted black olives  
(such as Kalamata)
½ cup pitted green olives 
(such as Castelvetrano)
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more for sautéing
Juice and zest of 1 lemon
1 garlic clove, minced
2 or 3 tablespoons chopped 
fresh basil, plus 1 tablespoon 
for garnish
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
1 (14-ounce) can artichoke 
hearts, drained
PER SERVING Calories 331  
Fat 30g, Protein 6g, Sodium 692mg,  
Total Carbs 19g, Fiber 9g1. Place the olives in a container with a lid. Add the olive oil, 
lemon juice and zest, garlic, and basil. Season with salt and pepper 
and mix well. Cover and refrigerate for several hours (overnight  
if possible). Remove from the refrigerator and allow to come to 
room temperature.
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, sauté the zucchini noodles 
in olive oil for about 5 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Add 
the drained artichokes to the skillet. Once the artichokes are hot, 
after about 5 minutes, reduce the heat to low and add the olives 
and their marinade. Mix well to combine, adding more olive oil  
if necessary.
3. Serve immediately with more chopped basil.
 VARIATION 1  GRILLED SALMON ZOODLES WITH MARINATED 
OLIVES AND ARTICHOKES:  Add a 4- to 6-ounce piece of grilled 
salmon to each serving of the original recipe—to cook salmon, 
coat the salmon with a drizzle of olive oil and season with salt and 
pepper. Use a grill or grill pan to cook over medium heat for 3 to 
5 minutes per side, until it ﬂakes easily with a fork.
 VARIATION 2  ZOODLES WITH CAPERS AND ARTICHOKES:  For 
a nice salty bite without having to take the time to marinate the 
olives, omit the marinated olives and add about 1⁄2 cup drained 
capers to the skillet with the artichokes.ZOODLES with MARINATED OLIVES and ARTICHOKES
This is one of those dishes that you put together one night 
because the ingredients are all randomly in your refrigerator and 
pantry, and before you know it you’re putting them on your shopping list so 
you can make it again and again. Zucchini noodles with olives, a bit of citrus, 
and artichokes come together for a dish so fresh and delicious that I bet it’ll 
become a regular occurrence in your meal-planning repertoire. Experiment 
with different olives in this dish, or use your favorites—I absolutely love 
Kalamata and Castelvetrano olives. SERVES 2 TO 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
33PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
DF NF 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 or 2 (6.5-ounce) cans clams 
with juice
3 or 4 large zucchini, spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ to ½ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
3 or 4 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped
Fresh parsley, chopped, 
for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 143  
Fat 8g, Protein 3g, Sodium 647mg,  
Total Carbs 18g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the garlic for about 1 minute. Add the clams with their juice and 
give it a stir.
2. Add the zucchini noodles and sauté until tender, about 5 min -
utes. Gently stir to combine all ingredients. Season with salt and 
pepper and add the crushed red pepper. Remove from the heat 
and add the sliced green onions.
3. Serve hot with a sprinkle of chopped fresh parsley.
 VARIATION 1  ZUCCHINI SPAGHETTI AND CLAMS WITH FRESH 
TOMATO:  Add 1 cup of diced fresh tomato to the skillet before 
serving. (Stir for 1 to 2 minutes so they heat up a bit.)
 VARIATION 2  LEMON-BUTTER ZUCCHINI SPAGHETTI WITH 
CLAMS:  Instead of olive oil, sauté the garlic in 2 to 3 tablespoons 
grass-fed butter. Squeeze 1⁄2 lemon in the skillet before  
adding the clams and zucchini noodles. Follow the rest of the 
recipe as written, but garnish with a lemon wedge as well as the 
fresh parsley.ZUCCHINI SPAGHETTI and CLAMS
This is a recipe my family has enjoyed for as long as I can remember—  
I have vivid memories of my mom whipping it up and my dad being 
really excited about it every time. As a kid, I wasn’t super enthusiastic about 
clams, but now I love them. We usually use canned clams (including the juice) 
for this recipe, but if you wanted to fancy it up a bit, you could use fresh ones 
in the shell—just make sure you discard any that don’t open after cooking. 
Clams, garlic, and olive oil are so lovely together that no one will know you 
threw it all together in well under 30 minutes. SERVES 4 THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
34PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
4 garlic cloves, sliced thin
1 large zucchini, spiralized
2 yellow squash, spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
3 carrots, spiralized (or cut into 
thin pieces)
1 red bell pepper, cut into 
thin strips
½ cup broccoli florets
½ cup cherry tomatoes, halved
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
½ cup fresh basil, chopped
PER SERVING Calories 115  
Fat 9g, Protein 2g, Sodium 229mg,  
Total Carbs 10g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the garlic for 1 minute or so, or until fragrant. Add the zucchini 
and yellow squash noodles and stir gently. Allow to cook for 3 to 
4 minutes, or until the noodles start to become fork-tender. Season 
with salt and pepper.
2. Add the carrots, bell pepper, broccoli, and cherry tomatoes. 
Toss everything together and cook for another 3 to 4 minutes. 
Season again with salt and pepper, this time adding the crushed 
red pepper. 
3. Remove from the heat, add the basil, toss one last time, 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN PASTA PRIMAVERA:  Add about 1 pound 
cooked, diced boneless chicken to the skillet when you add the 
additional veggies in step two.
 VARIATION 2  ALFREDO PRIMAVERA:  Use cashew Alfredo sauce 
(page 28), adding 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup, depending on how saucy you like 
your pasta.PASTA PRIMAVERA
This dish is so delicious, and I love how loaded with vegetables it 
is! This recipe is a great way to get rid of any vegetables that need 
to be eaten, and you can deﬁnitely experiment and add whatever you’d like to 
it, but this is my go-to “default” primavera, if you will. SERVES 6ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
35PREP TIME:  20 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
DF NF V 
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, diced 
or spiralized
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium eggplant, diced
1 green bell pepper, spiralized
1 red bell pepper, spiralized
2 large zucchini, spiralized
2 or 3 summer squash, 
spiralized
1½ cups cherry 
tomatoes, halved
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
½ teaspoon fresh thyme
1 tablespoon chopped 
fresh basil
PER SERVING Calories 147  
Fat 9g, Protein 4g, Sodium 216mg,  
Total Carbs 17g, Fiber 6g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the onion. After 2 to 3 minutes, add the garlic. Give it a stir and 
add the eggplant. Cook, stirring frequently, until the eggplant is 
tender, 8 to 10 minutes.
2. Add the bell peppers, zucchini, summer squash, and cherry 
tomatoes and season with salt and pepper. Add the thyme and 
continue to cook for another 5 minutes. 
3. Remove from the heat and add the basil, tossing to combine. 
Serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  RATATOUILLE WITH MUSHROOMS:  Add 10 ounces 
sliced mushrooms to the skillet with the eggplant.
 VARIATION 2  RATATOUILLE CHICKEN BOWLS:  While the vege -
tables cook, pan-fry about 1 pound diced boneless chicken breast 
over medium heat until cooked through, about 10 minutes. Plate 
the ratatouille in bowls and top with chicken.SPIRALIZED RATATOUILLE
I like ratatouille a lot, but sometimes there’s something about the tex -
ture of a bunch of sautéed vegetables all cooked together that feels a 
little boring to me. This spiralized ratatouille incorporates zucchini, squash, 
and bell pepper noodles with diced eggplant and cherry tomatoes to give  
you some variety in the texture of this otherwise classic recipe. You could 
even spiralize the onion if you wanted—it’s a lot faster and makes for a great 
presentation. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
36PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30 
2 tablespoons grass-fed butter
1 pound large shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
2 garlic cloves, minced
Juice of 1 lemon
¼ cup dry white wine (omit if 
strict Paleo)
2 or 3 large zucchini, spiralized
2 to 3 teaspoons fresh 
parsley, chopped
PER SERVING Calories 152  
Fat 5g, Protein 19g, Sodium 223mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 1g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Once 
it starts to bubble, add the shrimp, cooking on one side for 2 min -
utes (don’t stir yet). After the ﬁrst side has cooked, add the garlic 
and ﬂip the shrimp, cooking on the other side for another 2 min -
utes. Add the lemon juice and wine (if using) and give it a stir.
2. Remove the shrimp from the skillet and set aside, leaving the 
liquid in the pan. Add the zucchini to the skillet and sauté for  
3 to 4 minutes, until fork-tender. Add the shrimp back in and toss 
to combine.
3. Serve hot with chopped parsley on top.
 VARIATION 1  SHRIMP SCAMPI WITH BROCCOLI:  To add even 
more vegetables to this dish, add 1⁄2 cup chopped broccoli after 
you cook the shrimp. You’ll probably want to add the juice of 
another 1⁄2 lemon.
 VARIATION 2  SHRIMP SCAMPI WITH TOMATOES:  Add 
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced tomatoes after you’ve cooked the shrimp 
on one side.SHRIMP SCAMPI
This dish is a quick and easy one, but it feels special because it’s shrimp 
scampi! Shrimp scampi seems to me like the kind of dish you order 
when you’re out at a restaurant, so being able to throw together a quick and 
healthy Paleo version is great. I love the combination of zucchini noodles  
with butter, garlic, shrimp, and a splash of white wine. Don’t forget the fresh 
parsley to brighten the whole thing up and make it just as beautiful as it is 
delicious. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
38PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  2 hours, 
20 minutes
DF NF 
3 pounds beef short ribs
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 (14.5-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes (no sugar added)
½ to ¾ cup red wine (omit if 
strict Paleo)
1½ cups beef broth
3 or 4 summer squash, 
spiralized
Fresh parsley, chopped, 
for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 942  
Fat 44g, Protein 105g, Sodium 1,001mg,  
Total Carbs 19g, Fiber 6g1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. Season the ribs with salt and pepper. In a large Dutch oven 
over medium-high heat, heat the olive oil. Brown the ribs on each 
side (this should take 8 to 10 minutes total). Remove the ribs and 
set aside.
3. Add the onion and garlic and sauté for 3 to 4 minutes, or until 
the onion is tender. Add the crushed tomatoes and wine (if using). 
Stir occasionally as you bring the sauce to a simmer.
4. Return the ribs to the pot and cover with the beef broth. Put 
the lid on the pot and place the whole thing in the oven for about 
2 hours, or until the meat falls easily oﬀ the bones.
5. Transfer the ribs from the pot to a platter. Put the summer 
squash in the pot with the sauce and return to the oven to cook 
for 4 to 5 minutes, or until fork-tender. While the squash cooks, 
use two forks to shred the meat. 
6. Remove the pot from the oven, stir well, and ladle into bowls. 
Top the summer squash noodles with shredded short ribs, garnish 
with parsley, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  SLOW COOKER SHORT RIBS:  Make this meal the 
night before, or let it cook while you’re at work: After you brown 
the meat, place all of the ingredients except the squash noodles in 
a slow cooker. Cook on low for at least 8 hours, and then remove 
the ribs and add the squash noodles to the slow cooker to cook 
for 5 to 8 minutes, or until fork-tender. Shred the meat and serve 
as directed in the original recipe.
 VARIATION 2  SHORT RIB SUMMER SQUASH NOODLES WITH 
PEAS:  Add 1 cup green peas (thawed if frozen) to the sauce right 
after you take out the ribs to shred the meat. Stir well and allow to 
cook for 4 to 5 minutes before adding the noodles.SHORT RIB SUMMER SQUASH NOODLES
Braised short ribs aren’t a usual pasta accompaniment, but once I 
started to think about it, it did make sense—especially if you’re using 
zucchini or summer squash noodles instead of traditional pasta. The beef 
broth and red wine combine to make a delicious sauce, and the meat from  
the ribs is incredibly tender. It’s a meal so comforting that you might just 
forget that it’s healthy, too. SERVES 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
39PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  1 hour, 30 minutes
DF NF 
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
1 large yellow onion, diced  
(reserve a couple of 
tablespoons for topping)
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 pound ground beef, 
preferably grass-fed
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 (14.5-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes (no sugar added)
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
3 tablespoons chili powder
1 tablespoon ground cumin
¼ teaspoon ground cayenne 
pepper (more or less depending 
on your heat preference)
1 cup water
2 or 3 large zucchini (or 4 
summer squash), spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 405  
Fat 19g, Protein 40g, Sodium 1,641mg,  
Total Carbs 20g, Fiber 8g1. In a large pot or Dutch oven over medium heat, heat 2 table -
spoons of the olive oil and sauté the onion for about 2 minutes, or 
until tender. Add the garlic and give it another stir.
2. Add the ground beef and allow it to start browning. Season 
with salt and pepper. Chop it up using a wooden spoon, stirring 
occasionally. Add the tomatoes and stir to combine. Add the apple 
cider vinegar, chili powder, cumin, and cayenne pepper. Pour the 
water in, stir, and bring to a simmer.
3. Allow the chili to cook on medium-low until it begins to reduce 
and thicken, at least an hour.
4. In a large pan over medium heat, sauté the zucchini noodles 
with the remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil for 3 to 4 minutes or 
until the noodles start to become fork-tender. 
5. Serve the chili over the sautéed zucchini noodles, topped with 
the remaining diced onion.
 VARIATION 1  SWEET POTATO CINCINNATI CHILI:  While the 
chili is simmering, spiralize 2 sweet potatoes and toss them in 2 to 
3 tablespoons olive oil. Season with salt and pepper and then 
roast at 450°F for about 15 minutes. Serve in place of the squash 
noodles.
 VARIATION 2  CINCINNATI CHICKEN CHILI:  Use ground 
chicken (or turkey) if you want to lighten up this dish. Follow the 
steps as written; just substitute 1 pound ground chicken for the 
ground beef.CINCINNATI CHILI
Did you know that Cincinnati chili is just chili you put on spaghetti?  
I had no idea until recently. I make beanless chili all the time, and I love 
serving it on top of Brussels sprouts or—you guessed it—zucchini noodles.  
I didn't realize that the whole time I was making Paleo Cincinnati chili. That’s 
one of my favorite things about Paleo food—it’s just food, and sometimes  
you don’t even realize you’re doing it. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
40PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
NF 30 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive 
oil or ghee
1 pound boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts or 
thighs, diced
½ cup grass-fed butter
½ cup Frank’s RedHot sauce
3 or 4 large zucchini, spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 483  
Fat 35g, Protein 36g, Sodium 1,332mg,  
Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 35g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil. Add 
the diced chicken and cook until browned on all sides, about 
10 minutes.
2. While the chicken is cooking, in a small pan over medium heat, 
melt the butter and add the hot sauce to it. Stir well to combine.
3. With a slotted spoon, remove the chicken and set aside. Add 
the zucchini noodles, cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the noodles 
start to become fork-tender, and then stir the chicken back into 
the pan. Add the butter-hot sauce mixture, season with salt and 
pepper, and stir gently to combine. Cook for an additional 1 to 
2 minutes and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  CURRY CHICKEN ZOODLE BOWL:  Instead of home -
made Buﬀalo sauce, sauté the cooked chicken with 1 minced garlic 
clove, 1⁄4 cup chicken broth, 1 to 2 teaspoons curry powder, and 
1⁄4 cup coconut milk. Add the zucchini noodles, cook as directed, 
and then serve topped with a sprinkle of crushed red pepper.
 VARIATION 2  MEXICAN CHICKEN ZOODLE BOWL:  Season the 
chicken with 2 tablespoons Taco Seasoning (page 155). Cook 
according to the Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl recipe, omitting 
the hot sauce and butter. Serve with a squeeze of lime and/ or a 
spoonful of salsa.BUFFALO CHICKEN ZOODLE BOWL
This was a weeknight dinner I made on a whim one time, and it soon 
became a family favorite. My husband and I are big fans of Buffalo 
chicken anything, so I guess it was only a matter of time before I made a 
Buffalo chicken zoodle bowl. I like this served right out of the pan, with a 
generous drizzle of Paleo Ranch Dressing (page 154). The whole thing is 
super quick to whip up, and I hope you enjoy it on a busy weekday night  
as much as we do. SERVES 4ZUCC HINI A ND SUMM ER  SQUA SH
41PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  40 minutes
NF 
1 tablespoon grass-fed butter
1 large yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
10 ounces mushrooms, sliced
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
½ (14.5-ounce) can coconut 
milk (full-fat)
1 tablespoon arrowroot powder
1 (6- to 8-ounce) can tuna
1 cup green peas (thawed 
if frozen)
2 eggs, whisked
4 or 5 zucchini, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 255  
Fat 15g, Protein 18g, Sodium 274,  
Total Carbs 15g, Fiber 5g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter and sauté 
the onion and garlic. After 3 to 4 minutes, add the mushrooms. 
Season with salt and pepper. Cook for 8 to 10 minutes over 
medium-high heat, until the mushrooms are nicely browned. 
Remove them from the pan and set aside.
3. Add the coconut milk and arrowroot powder to the pan. 
Reduce the heat to medium-low and stir well to get rid of any 
arrowroot clumps. Remove from the heat and add the tuna, green 
peas, mushrooms, and eggs. Add the zucchini noodles, and stir 
gently to combine everything. Season with salt and pepper.
4. Pour the mixture into a baking dish and bake for 25 minutes. 
Allow to cool slightly before serving.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN AND MUSHROOM NOODLE CASSEROLE:  
Instead of tuna, use 6 to 8 ounces canned chicken and add a 
diced red bell pepper to the skillet along with the mushrooms. 
Follow the rest of the directions as written.
 VARIATION 2  TUNA NOODLE CASSEROLE WITH BROCCOLI:  
Sauté 1 cup chopped broccoli for 8 to 10 minutes after you  
remove the mushrooms from the skillet. Remove the broccoli  
and follow the rest of the recipe as written, remembering to  
add the broccoli to the skillet before mixing it all together to  
pour into the baking dish.TUNA NOODLE CASSEROLE
Tuna noodle casserole is a classic, old-school dish that I feel like every -
one should know how to make, except that I didn’t know how to make 
it because my mom never fed it to us. We weren’t really noodle casserole 
people, but I must admit that I always loved the sound of it. Tuna, noodles, 
cream of mushroom soup, peas—what’s not to love? Seriously, those are some 
of my favorite things. If you did indeed grow up on tuna noodle casserole, 
then I hope this Paleo version becomes your new tradition. SERVES 62
BEETS43Beets can be a little intimidating, because if you aren’t pre -
pared to work with them, they can really make a mess. 
I also think they’re one of those vegetables that most people 
think  they don’t like, until someone else gives them a little 
push to try them. But they are beautiful and delicious either 
raw or cooked, which makes them especially great for spiral -
izing. Most of the raw noodle recipes in this chapter will use 
blade A (ribbons) or D (spaghetti), because if you’re going to 
eat beets raw, they’re just a little better when sliced thin. They 
have an earthy sweetness that pairs well with a great variety of 
ﬂavors and textures—from roast beef to fresh herbs and citrus.
Other than their ﬂavor and hearty texture, my favorite thing 
about beets is their gorgeous color! The red ones (which you’ll 
ﬁnd most often) are stunning, particularly when cut into lovely 
noodles. All 10 of these recipes make the most of everything 
beets have to oﬀer, so if you’re a fan, you’ll have plenty of 
inspiration. And if you’re not a fan of beets, now you have a 
reason to try them!
Note: Make sure you peel the beets completely before spiraliz -
ing. (This goes for every recipe in this chapter.)THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
44PREP TIME:  10 minutes, plus 
15 minutes to marinate
DF NF R 30
4 beets, peeled and spiralized
1 large grapefruit, segmented
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼ cup rice vinegar
1 tablespoon honey
¼ cup lightly packed fresh 
tarragon, chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 201  
Fat 17g, Protein 2g, Sodium 246mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 2g1. In a large bowl, gently toss the beets and grapefruit to combine.
2. In a smaller bowl, mix the oil, vinegar, honey, and tarragon 
together. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Pour the vinaigrette over the noodles and grapefruit and toss 
to combine. Season again with salt and pepper, if necessary. For 
best ﬂavor, allow to marinate for about 15 minutes before serving.
 VARIATION 1  BEET SALAD WITH GRAPEFRUIT AND  
AVOCADO:  Skip the tarragon and serve this salad with a sliced 
avocado on top.
 VARIATION 2  BEET SALAD WITH GRAPEFRUIT AND MINT:   
If you don’t like the ﬂavor of tarragon, use fresh mint instead.MARINATED BEET NOODLES with GRAPEFRUIT  
and TARRAGON
This recipe was inspired by a cocktail I had at Kindred in Davidson, 
North Carolina—a restaurant that has truly become one of my favorite 
places in the world. The cocktail was simple, but elegant: grapefruit juice 
topped with sparkling wine and a sprig of fresh tarragon. The combination  
of citrus and savory herbs had been on my mind for quite some time, so I 
couldn’t help but incorporate the pairing into a salad. SERVES 6BEETS
45PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  About 30 minutes, 
plus 1 to 2 hours to chill
DF NF
½ cup apple cider or 
rice vinegar
½ cup water
¼ cup honey
1 knob fresh ginger, peeled 
and minced
1 tablespoon black 
peppercorns
1 tablespoon mustard seeds
1 tablespoon ground cumin
Zest of 1 orange
3 beets, peeled and spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 127  
Fat 1g, Protein 2g, Sodium 64mg,  
Total Carbs 28g, Fiber 2g1. In a small saucepan over high heat, stir gently to combine the 
vinegar, water, honey, ginger, peppercorns, mustard seeds, cumin, 
and orange zest. Bring to a boil and remove from the heat.
2. Pack the beet noodles into a clean, dry, heat-proof canning jar 
(two jars if they don’t ﬁt in one). Pour the hot brine over the noo -
dles and allow to cool. 
3. Once the jars are at room temperature, cover and chill for  
1 to 2 hours.
 VARIATION 1  QUICK-PICKLED BEET AND CARROT NOODLES:  
Instead of 3 beets, spiralize 1 beet and 2 carrots and follow the 
original recipe instructions.
 VARIATION 2  QUICK-PICKLED BEET NOODLE SALAD:  Substi -
tute about 1⁄2 cup quick-pickled beet noodles for the squash in 
the Warm Butternut Squash Noodle Salad with Kale and Cran -
berries (page 76). You can leave the noodles whole or give them  
a rough chop. I love quick-pickled veggies on top of a kale salad!QUICK-PICKLED BEET NOODLES
I love pickled vegetables so much—carrots, okra, cucumbers (see  
page 100), onions (see page 156), and beets are deﬁnitely up there  
on my list of favorites. I especially enjoy them as a garnish on a Bloody Mary 
or almost any other cocktail, but I also love having them as a snack on their 
own, or as a topping on any number of recipes—lots from The Big 15 Paleo 
Cookbook —but if you want to top your noodle recipes from this book with 
more noodles, please be my guest! SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
46PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes,  
plus 30 minutes to stand
DF V
¾ cup almonds
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons 
orange juice
6 tablespoons unsweetened 
dried cranberries
3½ tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 tablespoons vinegar
1 tablespoon grated 
orange peel
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
6 cups spinach
3 or 4 beets, peeled and 
spiralized
3 oranges, peeled and 
segmented
PER SERVING Calories 184  
Fat 11g, Protein 4g, Sodium 204mg,  
Total Carbs 20g, Fiber 5g1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
2. Spread the almonds on a baking sheet in an even layer and 
toast in the oven until nicely browned, 7 to 10 minutes, stirring 
halfway through toasting time to ensure even browning. Check 
frequently near the end to avoid burning. Set aside. 
3. In a small saucepan over medium-low heat, gently stir 1 cup 
of the orange juice together with the cranberries and bring to 
a simmer. Remove from the heat, let stand for 30 minutes, and 
then drain.
4. In a small bowl, mix to combine the oil, vinegar, orange peel, 
and the remaining 3 tablespoons of orange juice. Add the drained 
cranberries and season with salt and pepper.
5. In a large serving bowl, toss to combine the spinach, beet 
noodles, orange slices, and dressing. Top with the toasted almonds 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  CRANBERRY ORANGE BEET SALAD WITH 
SALMON:  To turn this salad into an entrée, add a 4-ounce piece 
of salmon to each serving. To prepare the salmon, brush with 
olive oil, season with salt and pepper, and bake at 450°F for 7 to 
10 minutes, or until the meat is mostly opaque and ﬂakes easily 
with a fork.
 VARIATION 2  CRANBERRY ORANGE BEET SALAD WITH  
MASSAGED KALE, CRANBERRIES, AND CARROTS:  Add 3 or 
4 shaved carrots to the salad for an extra pop of veggies and color. 
Replace the spinach with 6 cups curly kale. To massage kale, driz -
zle 1 to 2 tablespoons olive oil over raw kale, massage with your 
hands for about 5 minutes, and proceed with the recipe as written.CRANBERRY ORANGE BEET SALAD
This salad is an old family favorite. It came from my friend Joan’s 
mother, Margaret, who gave the recipe to my mom years and years 
ago. My mom calls it “Margaret’s Salad.” I love dishes like that—the ones that 
are so familiar and well used that you have to name them after someone you 
know and love. I added beet noodles to the original recipe to make this one, 
which I guess you could now call “Megan’s Salad.” SERVES 8BEETS
47PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF V 30
4 beets, peeled and spiralized
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼ cup balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 177  
Fat 17g, Protein 1g, Sodium 275mg,  
Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 1g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. Put the beet noodles in a large bowl. In a smaller bowl, com -
bine the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, Dijon mustard, salt, and 
pepper. Pour the balsamic vinaigrette over the noodles and toss 
thoroughly to combine.
3. Transfer the beet noodles to a baking sheet and pour any 
balsamic vinaigrette still in the bowl over them. Season again with 
salt and pepper and roast for 10 to 15 minutes, or until beets are 
slightly browned around the edges.
4. Remove from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Serve warm.
 VARIATION 1  ROASTED BALSAMIC BEET NOODLES WITH 
BACON:  Add about 8 ounces diced bacon to the sheet pan and 
roast with the beets.
 VARIATION 2  ROASTED BALSAMIC BEET NOODLE SALAD:  
Serve these roasted beet noodles over one or two handfuls of 
arugula. Make extra balsamic vinaigrette if desired.ROASTED BALSAMIC BEET NOODLES
This is one of the simplest beet recipes you’ll ﬁnd in this book, and it’s 
as delicious as it is easy—all you do is toss beet noodles in a balsamic 
vinaigrette and then roast them until they’re nice and tender and just starting 
to crisp around the edges. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
48PREP TIME:  5 minutes,  
plus 10 minutes to rest
COOK TIME:  5 minutes 
DF 30
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
4 beets, peeled and spiralized
½ cup Paleo Mayo (page 154)
Juice of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon curry powder
¼ teaspoon ground 
cayenne pepper
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon vegetable broth 
or water
½ cup shelled pistachios
PER SERVING Calories 156  
Fat 12g, Protein 2g, Sodium 412mg,  
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and 
sauté the beet noodles for about 5 minutes, or until beet noodles 
become fork-tender. Remove from the heat and allow to cool 
slightly.
2. In a small bowl, mix the mayonnaise, lemon juice, curry pow -
der, and cayenne pepper. Season with salt and pepper and add 
the broth. Allow to rest at least 10 minutes.
3. Transfer the beet noodles to a large bowl and add the  
curry dressing. Mix well to combine and serve topped with the 
pistachios.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN CURRY BEET NOODLE SALAD WITH 
PISTACHIOS:  Serve this noodle dish topped with 1 to 2 pounds 
diced cooked chicken breast. You may want to make more dress -
ing for the chicken.
 VARIATION 2  CURRY BEET NOODLE SALAD WITH SHRIMP:  
Serve topped with 1 to 2 pounds cooked, peeled shrimp. Again, 
you might want some extra dressing with the addition of a protein.BEET NOODLE SALAD with CURRY DRESSING  
and PISTACHIOS
This recipe is super delicious. I love pistachios and beets together, and 
the curry dressing gives it a delightful savory quality and a kick of heat 
(which you can adjust according to your taste preferences). It’s good topped 
with chicken or shrimp (see the variations), but it’s just as satisfying on its 
own—whether you’re serving it as a light lunch or a side dish with a main 
course. SERVES 6BEETS
49PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 red onion, sliced thin
1 garlic clove, sliced
2 or 3 beets, peeled and 
spiralized
2 tablespoons chili garlic oil  
or chili garlic sauce
Juice of 1 lime
PER SERVING Calories 170  
Fat 14g, Protein 2g, Sodium 59mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat the olive oil and 
sauté the onion and garlic. After 2 to 3 minutes, add the beet noo -
dles and continue to cook for about 5 minutes more, or until beet 
noodles become fork-tender.
2. Add the chili garlic oil and lime juice and toss to combine. 
Cook for another 2 minutes and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  CHILI-LIME SHRIMP WITH BEET NOODLES:   
Add about 1 pound shrimp to the skillet after you sauté the garlic 
and olive oil. Follow the remaining recipe steps as written.
 VARIATION 2  CHILI-LIME CUCUMBER AND CARROT NOODLES 
WITH CRUSHED ALMONDS:  Instead of beets, spiralize 1 cucum -
ber and 2 carrots. Sauté the onion and garlic and then stir in the 
chili garlic oil and lime juice. Allow to cool slightly and then toss 
the dressing with the raw cucumber and carrots. Add 1⁄4 cup 
crushed almonds to garnish.CHILI-LIME BEET NOODLES
I love the combination of chili and lime—it’s my go-to ﬂavor mixture 
when I want to make something a little Thai-inspired but don’t  
necessarily have all the ingredients for a pad thai or Drunken Noodles  
(see page 26). These beet noodles are quickly sautéed with a little garlic  
and oil and then tossed with your favorite chili garlic oil and a generous 
squeeze of fresh lime juice. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
50PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  45 minutes
DF NF 
8 cups beef broth
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 carrots, chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 dried bay leaves
4 beets, peeled, 3 grated  
and 1 spiralized
¼ cup fresh dill, minced
2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
PER SERVING Calories 165  
Fat 9g, Protein 9g, Sodium 1,287mg,  
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 3g1. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the broth 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and simmer.
2. In a larger saucepan over medium heat, heat 2 tablespoons 
of olive oil and sauté the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, 
until tender.
3. Add the carrots, celery, and oregano. Season with salt and 
pepper and cook on low for 7 to 8 minutes, or until the veggies 
become fork-tender.
4. Carefully transfer the simmering broth to the pot with the 
vegetables. Add the bay leaves and continue to simmer for 
10 minutes.
5. Add the grated beets to the soup and simmer for an additional 
15 minutes.
6. While the soup is cooking, in the saucepan you heated the 
broth in, over medium-high heat, fry the spiralized beet noodles in 
the remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil until they start to get crispy, 
6 to 7 minutes. ➤TWO-BEET BORSCHT WITH CRISPY BEET TOPPING
This is a variation on the borscht recipe you may have seen in my ﬁrst 
book, but here we’re doubling down on beets and serving the soup 
with a crispy beet noodle topping. We’re also blending the soup this time so 
it’s nice and smooth. I love the way rich beef broth, beets, and lots of herbs 
and veggies come together for a healthy, comforting bowl. You can always 
use your own homemade beef broth, but I ﬁnd that store-bought is just ﬁne, 
and it makes this recipe a lot more manageable. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
52
THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
527. Remove the soup from the heat and carefully blend with an 
immersion blender (you can also transfer it to a blender if you 
don’t have an immersion blender; just be careful and leave enough 
room that the top doesn’t pop oﬀ!). 
8. Once the blending is complete, add the dill and stir in the red 
wine vinegar. Serve the soup topped with the crispy beet noodles.
 VARIATION 1  VEGETARIAN BORSCHT:  Make this soup vegan by 
using veggie broth instead of beef broth.
 VARIATION 2  BORSCHT WITH PAN-SEARED STEAK:  Add 
6 ounces sliced, pan-seared steak to each serving.TWO-BEET BORS CHT W ITH CRISPY BEET TO PPI NG, CONT INUEDBEETS
53PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
4 beets, peeled and spiralized
1 cup green peas (thawed 
if frozen)
2 to 3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, plus an extra drizzle 
for serving
Juice of 1 lemon
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 large fennel bulb 
PER SERVING Calories 124  
Fat 7g, Protein 3g, Sodium 267mg,  
Total Carbs 14g, Fiber 4g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss the beets and peas in olive oil and lemon 
juice. Season with salt and pepper. Spread on a baking pan and 
roast for 5 to 10 minutes, or until beets are slightly browned 
around the edges.
3. While the noodles are in the oven, slice the fennel bulb very 
ﬁnely—you want to use the white part only. Wash it thoroughly 
after slicing (dirt can get trapped in the bulb, so I ﬁnd it easier to 
wash after I’ve sliced it).
4. Remove the beets and peas from the oven and return them to 
the bowl. Toss with the fresh fennel and serve with an extra drizzle 
of olive oil. Add more salt and/ or pepper to taste.
 VARIATION 1  BEET NOODLES, PEAS, AND FENNEL WITH 
BAKED SALMON:  Pair each serving of noodles with a 4-ounce 
piece of salmon. To prepare the salmon, brush it with olive oil, sea -
son with salt and pepper, and bake at 450°F for 7 to 10 minutes, or 
until the meat is mostly opaque and ﬂakes oﬀ easily with a fork.
 VARIATION 2  BEET NOODLES, PEAS, AND FENNEL WITH 
GRILLED SHRIMP SKEWERS:  Top these noodles with skewers  
of grilled shrimp: Toss about 1⁄2 pound large peeled shrimp in 
olive oil and the juice of 1⁄2 lemon. Season with salt and pepper, 
and skewer them onto kabob sticks. Grill for 2 to 3 minutes per 
side, or until shrimp is pink and opaque.ROASTED BEET NOODLES with PEAS and FENNEL
This is the kind of recipe that I want to make in the spring, when you can 
feel the afternoons warming up but the mornings are still a little chilly.  
I was in Seattle, on a spring day much like the one I just described, when I fell 
in love with thinly sliced fennel. My friend Kristan added it to a simple salad, 
and it was just delicious. The crunchy bite of licorice ﬂavor added an element 
that was surprising and satisfying. I had to take a page out of her book and 
add it to these beet noodles roasted with peas. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
54PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter
2 garlic cloves, minced
Juice of 2 lemons
3 or 4 beets, peeled and 
spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 131  
Fat 9g, Protein 2g, Sodium 430mg,  
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté  
the garlic until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add the lemon juice and 
bring to a low simmer.
2. Add the beet noodles and stir to combine. Sauté for another 
5 to 7 minutes or until beet noodles become fork-tender, and sea -
son with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  BEET PASTA WITH WALNUTS AND SAGE:  Sauté 
the garlic and then add the lemon juice and 2 tablespoons 
chopped fresh sage. Follow the rest of the original recipe steps. 
Add 1⁄2 cup toasted walnuts as a topping. To toast the walnuts, 
stir them in a small sauté pan over medium heat until golden and 
aromatic, about 2 minutes.
 VARIATION 2  BEET PASTA WITH LEMON-BUTTER SAUCE AND 
CHICKEN:  Add about 1 pound diced boneless chicken breast to 
the skillet with the butter and garlic. Cook for 8 to 10 minutes, 
or until the chicken is browned and cooked through. Follow 
the remaining recipe steps and garnish with a handful of fresh 
chopped dill.BEET PASTA WITH LEMON-BUTTER SAUCE
This beet pasta is a Paleo response to the jealousy I feel anytime I see 
someone make a gorgeous pasta or gnocchi with beets—it’s always this 
beautiful shade of red, and you know it’s just delicious. This recipe uses blade 
C, so the noodles are a little thicker (like linguini, which is my favorite shape). 
They’re sautéed in butter with lemon and garlic, and they’re simple but 
delightful in ﬂavor—I just love them. SERVES 4BEETS
55PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
1½ pounds ﬂank steak
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
½ cup Paleo Mayo (page 154)
3 tablespoons horseradish
2 green onions, ﬁnely chopped
1 tablespoon red wine vinegar
2 or 3 beets, peeled and 
spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 546  
Fat 31g, Protein 49g, Sodium 689mg,  
Total Carbs 16g, Fiber 2g1. Season the steak with salt and pepper. In a large skillet over 
medium-high heat, cook the steak with 1 tablespoon of olive oil for 
4 to 5 minutes per side, depending on how you like it cooked.
2. While the steak cooks, in a small bowl, mix together the mayon -
naise, horseradish, green onions, and red wine vinegar. Season with 
salt and pepper.
3. Remove the steak from the heat and let rest for about 10 min -
utes. While the steak is resting, add the remaining tablespoon of 
olive oil to the skillet and stir-fry the beet noodles for 5 to 7 min -
utes, or until they begin to crisp.
4. To serve, layer the beet noodles onto plates and top with thinly 
sliced steak. Spoon the horseradish sauce over the steak or serve 
on the side.
 VARIATION 1  FLANK STEAK OVER FRIED TURNIP NOODLES 
WITH HORSERADISH DRESSING:  Substitute turnip noodles for 
the beet noodles. Follow the rest of the recipe as written.
 VARIATION 2  FLANK STEAK OVER FRIED BEET NOODLES 
WITH AVOCADO-LIME DRESSING:  Instead of horseradish 
dressing (eliminate the Paleo Mayo, horseradish, green onions, 
and red wine vinegar), use a food processor or blender to blend 
1 avocado, the juice of 2 limes, and some salt and pepper. Serve 
over the steak.FLANK STEAK over FRIED BEET NOODLES  
with HORSERADISH DRESSING
I love ﬂank steak cooked medium-rare with horseradish. I decided to fry 
beet noodles with some olive oil to take the place of the potatoes that 
I’d usually serve. The result is a familiar dish with a creative twist—and the 
horseradish dressing is the perfect way to top it off. This is an impressive 
special-occasion meal that takes only 30 minutes to throw together. SERVES 43
CARROTS57Carrots are one of my favorite vegetables, but unless 
they’re chopped up and used as an aromatic at the begin -
ning of another recipe, I really don’t cook with them enough. I 
usually just eat them raw with a side of Paleo Ranch Dressing 
(page 154). Oddly enough, they happen to be one of my dog’s 
favorite treats, so we often share a bowl as an afternoon snack 
(he doesn’t eat the dressing, though; he is a dog, after all).
But carrots have a lot to oﬀer as a main ingredient and can 
be prepared many ways—I particularly enjoy them roasted at 
a high heat, but you can also pan-fry them, sauté them, bake 
them in a casserole, and, of course, eat them raw. Carrots 
are ﬂavorful and delicious, and because they’re so good raw, 
they’re easy to use if you’re in the mood for something super 
quick. A couple of my favorites that you’ll ﬁnd in these next 
few pages: Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot Noodle Skillet (page 66) 
and a Carrot Noodle Salad with Tahini-Lime Dressing and  
Raisins (page 58). Yum! Let’s jump in.
Note: When you’re planning to spiralize carrots, look for the 
biggest ones you can ﬁnd, otherwise your spirals will be more 
like chips than noodles!THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
58PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF V 30
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
1 cup raisins
3 tablespoons tahini
Juice of 2 limes
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
Fresh cilantro, for garnish 
(optional)
PER SERVING Calories 215  
Fat 6g, Protein 4g, Sodium 358mg,  
Total Carbs 42g, Fiber 5g1. In a large bowl, toss the carrots and raisins together.
2. In a smaller bowl, whisk the tahini and lime juice together. 
Season with salt and pepper. Pour the dressing over the carrot 
noodles and raisins and toss to combine.
3. Taste and season more if necessary. Garnish with cilantro  
(if using) and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH TAHINI-LIME 
DRESSING AND AVOCADO:  Instead of raisins, toss this salad with 
1 diced avocado. Give it an extra squeeze of lime juice and season 
the avocado with salt and pepper.
 VARIATION 2  CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH TAHINI-LIME 
DRESSING AND CHICKEN:  Up the protein by adding 1 pound 
diced cooked chicken breast or thighs to the salad. Toss to com -
bine. You may need a little extra dressing to coat the chicken.CARROT NOODLE SALAD with TAHINI-LIME 
DRESSING and RAISINS
Carrots and raisins go hand in hand. I love the sweetness and texture of 
both: the crisp, almost juicy crunch of carrots and the chewy dried fruit. 
This quick carrot noodle salad is dressed with an even quicker dressing of 
tahini and fresh lime juice. If you haven’t used tahini before, it’s a loose paste 
made of sesame seeds, and you can ﬁnd it in the Asian food section of your 
local grocery store. SERVES 4CA RROTS
59PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF V R 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
Juice of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
2 cups loosely packed arugula
PER SERVING Calories 94  
Fat 7g, Protein 1g, Sodium 380mg,  
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 2g1. In a small bowl, whisk to combine the olive oil, lemon juice, 
Dijon, and some salt and pepper.
2. In a larger bowl, toss to combine the carrot noodles and aru -
gula. Pour the dressing over the salad and toss again to combine. 
Season with more salt and pepper, if necessary, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH LEMON 
VINAIGRETTE AND FRIED EGG:  Top each salad with one or two 
fried eggs. To fry the egg, melt 1⁄2 tablespoon grass-fed butter and 
cook until the egg white has set. Gently ﬂip if you like your eggs 
over medium; otherwise serve as is (sunny-side up).
 VARIATION 2  CHICKEN AND CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH 
LEMON VINAIGRETTE:  Add 2 (4.5-ounce) cans chicken to this 
salad. Toss everything together to combine with the dressing.CARROT NOODLE SALAD with LEMON VINAIGRETTE
This salad is a simple but elegant dish that dresses carrot ribbon  
noodles in a delicious and quick lemon-Dijon vinaigrette. Then every -
thing is tossed together with a couple handfuls of arugula, which is my 
absolute favorite green—especially when lemon vinaigrette is involved. I like 
this salad on its own as a snack, but you can easily add virtually any protein  
to it, including a fried egg, which you’ll see in one of the variations 
below. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
60PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 37  
Fat 2g, Protein <1g, Sodium 222mg,  
Total Carbs 4g, Fiber 1g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss the carrot noodles in the olive oil. Season 
with salt and pepper.
3. Press a small handful of the carrot noodles into each well of a 
muﬃn tin (ﬁll 4 to 6 wells). Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the 
noodles are crisp. Remove from the oven and allow to cool slightly 
before serving.
 VARIATION 1  CARROT NOODLE NESTS WITH BAKED EGGS:  
Crack an egg over each carrot nest and bake for 8 to 10 minutes, 
or until the egg white is no longer runny.
 VARIATION 2  CARROT NOODLE NESTS WITH CHICKEN SALAD:  
Serve cooled carrot noodle nests with about 1⁄4 cup of your favor -
ite chicken salad for a quick and easy lunch. For a quick chicken 
salad, mix 1 (12-ounce) can chicken with 2 tablespoons Paleo Mayo 
(page 154), 1⁄4 medium yellow onion, ﬁnely diced, 1 to 2 celery 
stalks, diced, and salt and pepper to taste.CARROT NOODLE NESTS
These carrot noodle nests are an easy way to use up leftover carrots, 
and you can pair them with almost anything. I like them with chicken or 
tuna salad or even with a baked egg for breakfast (you can ﬁnd those recipes 
in the variations). They’re easy to make and a quick way to do something 
creative with a veggie you probably eat all the time already. SERVES 6CA RROTS
61PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF 30
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 teaspoons honey
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 47  
Fat 2g, Protein <1g, Sodium 227mg,  
Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 1g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. In a small bowl, mix to combine the olive oil, honey, and cinna -
mon. Season with salt and pepper. Spread the carrot noodles out 
on a baking sheet, pour the oil and honey mixture over them, and 
toss to combine.
3. Roast the carrot noodles for 5 to 10 minutes, until golden-brown  
and a little crispy around the edges, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  CINNAMON-MAPLE ROASTED CARROT NOODLES:   
Use maple syrup in place of the honey for a truly seasonal 
fall dish.
 VARIATION 2  SPICE-ROASTED CARROT NOODLES WITH  
PISTACHIOS:  Add 1⁄2 teaspoon cumin and a big pinch of  
ground cayenne pepper to the carrots along with the cinnamon. 
Garnish with 1⁄2 cup chopped pistachios and the zest and juice  
of 1⁄2 lemon before serving.CINNAMON-HONEY ROASTED CARROT NOODLES
My mom made roasted carrots with cinnamon and honey one holiday 
season, and I remember being completely enamored with them—they 
didn’t even seem like carrots anymore! Who knew that this crunchy root 
vegetable had the potential to be something so sweet and deeply complex 
when roasted? This is the noodle version of that recipe—they’re delicious on 
their own or on top of salads. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
62PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF V R 30
1 garlic clove, minced
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
Juice of ½ lime
1 tablespoon rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sesame oil
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
1 red bell pepper, sliced
1 cucumber, diced
2 green onions, ﬁnely chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 handful fresh cilantro, 
for garnish
Lime wedges, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 88  
Fat 4g, Protein 2g, Sodium 341mg,  
Total Carbs 14g, Fiber 3g1. In a small bowl, mix to combine the garlic, crushed red pepper, 
coconut aminos, lime juice, rice vinegar, and sesame oil.
2. Divide the carrot noodles among 4 bowls and arrange the  
bell pepper, cucumber, and green onions over the noodles. Drizzle 
the dressing over the bowls, season with salt and pepper, garnish 
each with cilantro and a lime wedge, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  VIETNAMESE CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH 
CHICKEN:  Top each serving with 1 sliced boneless chicken breast. 
To make the chicken: Cook over medium-high heat for 8 to 10 min -
utes per side in a skillet with olive oil until completely opaque and 
the juices run clear, and season with salt and pepper.
 VARIATION 2  VIETNAMESE CARROT NOODLE SALAD WITH 
AVOCADO AND FRIED EGG:  Top each serving with 1⁄2 sliced 
avocado and a fried egg. To fry the egg, melt 1⁄2 tablespoon 
grass-fed butter and cook until the egg white has set. Gently 
ﬂip if you like your eggs over medium; otherwise serve as is 
(sunny-side up).VIETNAMESE CARROT NOODLE SALAD
One of my favorite lunches is a Vietnamese rice noodle bowl. It’s fresh, 
it’s crunchy, and it’s bursting with awesome ﬂavors and textures—I 
would eat one every day if I could. But because I shouldn’t, I created this dish 
with carrot noodles instead. The original rice bowls usually have julienned 
carrots, so that seemed like a natural derivation. You could spiralize all of the 
veggies this recipe calls for, but I like the difference in texture between carrot 
noodles, diced cucumbers, and sliced red bell pepper. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
64PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF V 30
6 to 8 large rainbow carrots 
(yellow, purple, and orange), 
spiralized
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 111  
Fat 8g, Protein <1g, Sodium 260mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 2g1. Preheat the oven to 450°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss the rainbow carrot noodles with the olive 
oil. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Arrange the carrot noodle curly fries on a baking sheet. Roast 
for 10 to 15 minutes, or until golden-brown and crisp around the 
edges, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  SEASONED RAINBOW CARROT CURLY FRIES 
WITH PALEO RANCH:  Before baking, toss the carrot noodles with 
1⁄2 teaspoon each of garlic powder, onion powder, and ground 
paprika, plus a pinch of ground cayenne pepper. Serve with a side 
of Paleo Ranch Dressing (page 154).
 VARIATION 2  SWEET RAINBOW CARROT CURLY FRIES:  Add 
2 tablespoons maple syrup and 1 1⁄2 teaspoons ground cinnamon 
to the carrots before baking.RAINBOW CARROT CURLY FRIES
Rainbow carrots have got to be one of the prettiest vegetables out 
there. The purple ones are so crazy looking, and they’re even more 
beautiful when sliced, with their dark purple skin and contrasting orange 
interiors. This recipe calls for yellow, purple, and orange carrots, which makes  
for a pretty presentation, but don’t worry if you can’t ﬁnd the multicolored 
ones—regular old orange carrots will do just ﬁne as well. SERVES 6CA RROTS
65PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
DF NF 30
3 cups chicken broth
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
2 eggs
Salt 
1 green onion, chopped
PER SERVING Calories 86  
Fat 3g, Protein 7g, Sodium 936mg,  
Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 2g1. In a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, bring the broth 
to a boil. Add the carrot noodles and cook for 2 minutes.
2. In a small bowl, whisk the eggs together with a pinch of salt.
3. Remove the broth from the heat and slowly pour the eggs into 
the soup while stirring gently. 
4. Garnish with green onion and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  VEGETARIAN EGG DROP SOUP:  Use vegetable 
broth instead of chicken to make this soup vegetarian.
 VARIATION 2  TRADITIONAL EGG DROP SOUP:  In a saucepan 
over medium heat, sauté a couple of slices of fresh, peeled ginger 
and a clove of minced garlic in 1⁄2 teaspoon olive oil before adding 
the chicken broth. Omit the carrot noodles, and proceed with the 
original recipe as written. CARROT NOODLE EGG DROP SOUP
Egg drop soup is something that I didn’t even think to try to make  
on my own until very recently. It’s so simple: All you do is heat broth 
(chicken is my favorite) to a simmer, whisk some eggs together, and then 
gently drizzle the eggs in the broth so they get nice and silky and smooth,  
not scrambled. It’s a great way to use leftover chicken broth, and it adds a 
little something so it feels a bit more substantial. I’ve added some carrot 
noodles to this recipe for even more variation. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
66PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
NF 
1 pound boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts
¼ cup plus 1 tablespoon grass-
fed butter
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
1 or 2 garlic cloves, minced
¼ cup Frank’s RedHot sauce
2 or 3 celery stalks, diced
¼ cup Paleo Ranch Dressing 
(page 154)
PER SERVING Calories 431  
Fat 28g, Protein 34g, Sodium 737mg,  
Total Carbs 11g, Fiber 3g1. Steam the chicken breasts by placing them in a steaming basket 
over a pot of simmering water. Cover and cook for about 15 min -
utes, or until the juices run clear. Transfer the chicken to a large 
bowl and allow to cool.
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon of butter 
and sauté the carrot noodles. Allow to cook for 3 to 4 minutes, 
or until carrots are slightly softened. Add the garlic and sauté for 
1 minute more. 
3. While the carrot noodles are cooking, shred the chicken with 
two forks.
4. In a separate microwave-safe bowl, melt the remaining 1⁄4 cup 
of butter by microwaving it for 30 seconds at a time, and then add 
the hot sauce to it and mix. Pour half of the butter mixture over 
the carrot noodles and toss to combine. Continue to cook over 
medium heat.BUFFALO CHICKEN CARROT NOODLE SKILLET
If you read my blog or checked out my last book, you know that my 
husband, Rob, and I are really into Buffalo chicken—so into it, in fact, 
that we served Buffalo chicken cups at our wedding. Usually we just cook 
chicken and toss it in some homemade Buffalo sauce, but this dish is new to 
us, and we love it. Instead of serving the Buffalo chicken with a side of carrots 
and celery, I spiralized the carrots and fried them up in a skillet, added shred -
ded chicken, and topped it with diced celery and a drizzle of Paleo Ranch 
Dressing. It’s an easy and imaginative way to enjoy a classic. SERVES 4CA RROTS
67CA RROTS
675. Pour the remaining butter mixture over the shredded chicken 
and stir well to combine. Add the chicken to the skillet with the 
carrot noodles, tossing to combine. Continue to stir occasionally 
for another 3 to 4 minutes, or until the chicken begins to brown 
and the sauce bubbles a bit. Remove from the heat.
6. Serve topped with the celery and a drizzle of Paleo Ranch 
Dressing.
 VARIATION 1  BUFFALO SHRIMP CARROT NOODLE SKILLET:  
Instead of steamed, shredded chicken, sauté 1 pound shrimp in the 
skillet with the carrot noodles and all of the butter mixture. Follow 
the rest of the original recipe steps as listed.
 VARIATION 2  BUFFALO CHICKEN SWEET POTATO NOODLE 
SKILLET:  Substitute 1 large sweet potato (spiralized) for the carrot 
noodles. (They’ll take a little longer to cook, 8 to 10 minutes.)THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
68PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
DF NF 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 small yellow onion, sliced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 small knob fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
1 green bell pepper, sliced
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets 
(save the stem for chapter 7!)
1 (8-ounce) can sliced water 
chestnuts, drained
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1½ pounds chicken breasts or 
thighs, diced
½ cup coconut aminos
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 586  
Fat 24g, Protein 55g, Sodium 1,276mg,  
Total Carbs 38g, Fiber 4g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat the olive oil. 
Add the onion and stir. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the onion 
is tender, and then add the garlic and ginger. Stir and cook for 
another minute.
2. Add the carrots, bell pepper, broccoli, and water chestnuts. 
Cook for about 5 minutes or until the veggies become fork-tender, 
and remove everything from the skillet.
3. Pour the sesame oil into the skillet and add the chicken. Cook, 
stirring frequently, until all sides are browned, 8 to 10 minutes. 
4. Return the vegetables to the skillet and stir everything 
together. Add coconut aminos and crushed red pepper, season 
with salt and pepper, and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  BEEF AND CARROT NOODLE STIR-FRY:  Instead 
of chicken, use 1 1⁄2 pounds thinly sliced steak. (The steak may be 
done a few minutes sooner than the chicken would be.)
 VARIATION 2  SHRIMP AND CARROT NOODLE STIR-FRY:  Instead 
of chicken, use 1 1⁄2 pounds shrimp. (They take only 3 to 4 minutes 
to cook.)CHICKEN AND CARROT NOODLE STIR-FRY
Stir-fry is a good go-to recipe to have when you’re busy and need to 
make a quick but healthy dinner. I love throwing one together with 
whatever vegetables I have in the fridge—it’s a great way to get rid of veggies 
before they go bad, which is something I’m not always good at. This Paleo 
stir-fry has all of the ﬂavor and vegetables you’re used to, but we’re spiralizing 
the carrots to add a noodle element, and as usual we’ve replaced the soy 
sauce with coconut aminos. SERVES 4CA RROTS
69PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
3 or 4 large carrots, spiralized
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, sliced
1 tablespoon coconut cream
1 cup green peas (thawed 
if frozen)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 291  
Fat 27g, Protein 3g, Sodium 336mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 4g1. Boil a medium pot of water and add the carrot noodles. Cook 
for 2 to 3 minutes, or until tender. Drain.
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil. Add the 
garlic and stir until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Lower the heat and 
add the coconut cream. Stir until smooth. Add the peas.
3. Add the drained carrot noodles to the skillet and toss gently to 
combine. Season with salt and pepper and serve.
 VARIATION 1  CARROT PASTA WITH PEAS AND CHICKEN IN 
CREAMY GARLIC SAUCE:  Add about 8 ounces shredded chicken 
(prepare chicken as in the Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot Noodle Skillet 
recipe on page 66) to the skillet with the carrot noodles. Stir to 
combine and serve hot.
 VARIATION 2  CARROT PASTA WITH SHRIMP, PEAS, AND 
CREAMY LEMON GARLIC SAUCE:  Add 1 pound peeled shrimp to 
the skillet along with the garlic and cook for about 2 minutes per 
side. Add the zest and juice of 1 lemon to the pan with the coconut 
milk. Stir well to combine. Follow the remaining recipe steps and 
serve garnished with a slice of lemon.CARROT PASTA with PEAS  
and CREAMY GARLIC SAUCE
What goes better with carrots than peas? This carrot pasta is light  
and fresh and loaded with—you guessed it—peas! I don’t always love 
coconut cream with savory dishes, but this one has just a tablespoon to make 
it nice and creamy, which is delicious with the sautéed garlic. And the best 
part is that carrots take only 2 to 3 minutes to cook, so you could have lunch 
or dinner ready in no time! SERVES 44
BUTTERNUT 
SQUASH71Butternut squash is not the easiest vegetable to spiral -
ize, but it’s one of my favorites. I like how starchy it is 
compared to zucchini, and I ﬁnd that the noodles it yields are 
closer to pasta than any other vegetable, so I love to use it 
when I’m especially craving noodles.
When you’re spiralizing butternut squash, you’ll want to follow 
a few guidelines to get the best results:
1. Choose a medium butternut squash (about 2 pounds) with 
ﬁrm ﬂesh and unblemished skin and peel it thoroughly. 
Get the skin oﬀ, and then peel again to get through the 
rough exterior. You want to work with only the more vibrant 
orange ﬂesh—the lighter orange skin (even after you’ve 
peeled the ﬁrst layer) will make it harder to spiralize. So, 
take the time to peel thoroughly!
2. Next, cut the bulb oﬀ the bottom. This is where the 
seeds are, and the hollow space won’t give you enough 
surface area to spiralize. You can set it aside for other, 
non-spiralized recipes (and roasted seeds!).
3. Finally, cut the part you’re working with in half so you have 
two pieces that are each a few inches long. This will make it 
easier to spiralize without losing momentum.
4. Remember that butternut squash noodles take a little longer 
than zucchini to soften—about 8 minutes.
Now you’re ready to cook!THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
72PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF 30
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
½ cup plus 2 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 small shallot, minced
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon honey
1 cup arugula
1 cup spinach
PER SERVING Calories 366  
Fat 33g, Protein 2g, Sodium 349mg,  
Total Carbs 22g, Fiber 3g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
2. In a large bowl, toss the squash noodles with 2 tablespoons 
of olive oil to coat evenly. Season with salt and pepper and mix 
again. Transfer to a baking sheet and roast for 8 to 10 minutes,  
or until squash noodles are fork-tender.
3. While the squash is in the oven, make the vinaigrette. In a 
small bowl, mix to combine the remaining 1⁄2 cup of olive oil with 
the shallot, apple cider vinegar, Dijon mustard, and honey. Season 
with salt and pepper.
4. Put the greens in a large bowl, pour some of the dressing over 
them, and toss to combine. Once the butternut squash is done 
roasting, remove it from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Add 
the squash to the salad and toss with the remaining dressing. 
Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  SOUTHWESTERN BUTTERNUT SQUASH SALAD 
WITH HONEY-LIME DIJON AND PEPITAS:  Before roasting, toss 
the squash noodles with 2 teaspoons chili powder. Replace the 
apple cider vinegar in the dressing with the juice of 2 limes and 
garnish the salad with 1⁄2 cup pepitas (roasted pumpkin seeds).
 VARIATION 2  BUTTERNUT SQUASH SALAD WITH APPLE CIDER 
VINAIGRETTE AND GRILLED CHICKEN:  Serve this salad topped 
with 1⁄2 pound grilled chicken breast slices. To grill the chicken, 
brush with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Cook on a 
grill or grill pan over medium heat for 8 to 10 minutes per side, 
until completely opaque and the juices run clear.BUTTERNUT SQUASH SALAD with APPLE CIDER 
VINAIGRETTE
I love the addition of warm roasted squash or beets to a big salad,  
so this one is a favorite. You could use any greens you like, but I parti -
cularly like the mixture of spinach and arugula. A honey-Dijon apple cider 
vinaigrette is the perfect complement to the rich butternut squash noodles. 
This salad is the perfect thing to bring to a holiday potluck or to serve  
alongside any fall or winter dinner. SERVES 4BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
73PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF V 30
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
¼ cup maple syrup
½ cup crushed pecans 
(toasted or raw)
PER SERVING Calories 271  
Fat 16g, Protein 5g, Sodium 8mg,  
Total Carbs 31g, Fiber 4g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss the squash noodles with the olive oil  
and maple syrup. Transfer to a baking sheet, and bake for  
8 to 10 minutes, or until squash noodles are fork-tender.
3. Serve topped with the crushed pecans.
 VARIATION 1  BACON-MAPLE-PECAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH 
CURLS:  Add 3 or 4 diced bacon slices to the baking sheet with 
the squash noodles. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the bacon  
is crispy and the squash noodles are fork-tender.
 VARIATION 2  HONEY-CINNAMON-PECAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH 
NOODLES:  Instead of maple syrup, use 1⁄4 cup honey and 1 tea -
spoon ground cinnamon. Bake per the original recipe instructions.MAPLE-PECAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH CURLS
These maple-pecan butternut squash curls are really delicious. I’m not 
always a big fan of maple syrup, but it’s so good with roasted squash, 
especially butternut squash. The end result is kind of like curly fries, but 
they’re practically dessert. You could serve them over a salad or alongside  
the protein of your choice, but I also really like them on their own as a sweet 
snack. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
74PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground ginger
¾ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
½ teaspoon ground 
cayenne pepper
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground allspice
½ teaspoon ground coriander
¼ teaspoon ground cloves
PER SERVING Calories 130  
Fat 7g, Protein 2g, Sodium 589mg,  
Total Carbs 18g, Fiber 3g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
2. In a large bowl, toss the squash noodles with the olive oil.
3. In a small bowl, mix to combine the cumin, salt, ginger, black 
pepper, cayenne pepper, cinnamon, allspice, coriander, and 
cloves. Add the spice mixture to the squash noodles and toss with 
your hands to combine, ensuring all of the seasoning is evenly 
distributed. 
4. Spread the squash noodles in an even layer on a baking sheet 
and roast for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the noodles are browned 
and beginning to crisp.
5. Remove from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Serve warm.
 VARIATION 1  MOROCCAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES 
WITH CHICKEN AND TOMATOES:  Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
In a large ovenproof skillet over medium heat, brown 4 chicken 
thighs in 1 tablespoon ghee, about 5 minutes. Flip them over and 
add 1 (14.5-ounce) can crushed tomatoes (no sugar added) to the 
skillet. Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the seasoned  
butternut squash noodles to the pan. Transfer the skillet to 
the oven, and cook until the chicken is cooked through, 10 to 
15 minutes.ROASTED MOROCCAN BUTTERNUT 
SQUASH NOODLES
The ﬂavor of butternut squash lends itself so well to certain spices—
especially cinnamon, ginger, and allspice—so it made sense to whip up 
a Moroccan spice mix and season some butternut squash noodles with it 
before quickly roasting them in the oven. These are great both as a snack and 
as a base for quite a few main dishes (my favorite is the chicken with toma -
toes listed in the ﬁrst variation). SERVES 4BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
75BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
75 VARIATION 2  ROASTED MOROCCAN BUTTERNUT SQUASH 
NOODLES WITH POACHED EGGS:  If you want turn this into 
a main course without adding meat, poach eggs to serve on top 
of the roasted butternut squash noodles. To poach eggs: Bring a 
large pot of water to a low simmer. Add a splash of white vinegar. 
Crack one egg into a small dish and use a large spoon to swirl the 
water into a slow whirlpool. Carefully drop the egg into the water, 
and without hitting the egg, continue the swirling motion with the 
spoon. Allow to cook for 1 or 2 minutes, until the whites have set. 
Carefully scoop the egg out and place it on a paper towel. Repeat 
with the rest of the eggs you plan to serve.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
76PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 cups chopped curly kale
1 cup dried unsweetened 
cranberries
2 to 3 tablespoons balsamic 
vinaigrette (see page 47)
PER SERVING Calories 230  
Fat 15g, Protein 2g, Sodium 401mg,  
Total Carbs 23g, Fiber 4g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss the butternut squash noodles with 
1 1⁄2 tablespoons of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper, transfer 
to a baking sheet, and roast for 8 to 10 minutes, or until squash 
noodles are fork-tender.
3. While the squash is in the oven, in a large bowl, massage  
the kale with the remaining 1 1⁄2  tablespoons of olive oil. Use your 
hands or a wooden spoon to stir continuously for about 5 min -
utes to soften the leaves. Add the cranberries and roasted squash 
noodles.
4. Drizzle the balsamic vinaigrette over the salad and toss to com -
bine. Serve immediately, while the squash noodles are still warm.
 VARIATION 1  WARM BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLE SALAD 
WITH KALE, CRANBERRIES, AND CHICKEN:  Serve this salad 
topped with 1⁄2 pound grilled chicken breast slices. To grill the 
chicken, brush with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. 
Cook on a grill or grill pan over medium heat for 8 to 10 minutes 
per side, until completely opaque and the juices run clear.
 VARIATION 2  WARM BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLE SALAD 
WITH STEAK:  Skip the cranberries and serve this salad topped 
with 1⁄2 pound grilled steak. To grill the steak, brush with olive oil 
and season with salt and pepper. Cook on a grill or grill pan over 
medium heat for 5 to 7 minutes per side, depending on how you 
like your steak cooked.WARM BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLE SALAD  
with KALE and CRANBERRIES
Kale salads are a new favorite for me—I never thought I liked kale raw, 
but it turns out if you massage it a bit, it’s tender and not at all bitter.  
I actually like it better raw than cooked, especially when paired with dried 
cranberries and roasted butternut squash. Traditionally, this salad would be 
served with diced squash, but I like the addition of squash noodles even 
more. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
78PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ red onion, sliced thin
1 tablespoon peeled and 
minced fresh ginger
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
2 tablespoons red curry paste
1 cup canned full-fat 
coconut milk
1 to 2 tablespoons chili 
garlic sauce
2 tablespoons ﬁsh sauce
2 tablespoons coconut aminos
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets 
and chopped (save the stem 
for chapter 7!)
2 carrots, sliced
1 red bell pepper, sliced
Fresh lime wedges, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 347  
Fat 24g, Protein 6g, Sodium 1,768mg,  
Total Carbs 33g, Fiber 7g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the onion. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until the onion is tender, and 
add the ginger and garlic. Cook for another minute before adding 
the butternut squash noodles.
2. In a small bowl, mix the curry paste, coconut milk, chili sauce, 
ﬁsh sauce, and coconut aminos. Once the butternut squash noo -
dles have been cooking for about 5 minutes, add the sauce to the 
skillet. Toss to combine.
3. Add the broccoli, carrots, and bell pepper and give it a good 
stir. Cook for an additional 3 to 4 minutes, or until the vegetables 
are brighter in color and fork-tender.
4. Serve hot with fresh lime wedges for squeezing over the bowl.
 VARIATION 1  BUTTERNUT SQUASH CURRY NOODLES WITH 
CHICKEN:  Add about 2 pounds diced boneless chicken breast or 
thighs to the skillet before adding the butternut squash noodles. 
Cook for 3 to 4 minutes to brown and then add the noodles and 
continue with the rest of the original recipe.
 VARIATION 2  BUTTERNUT SQUASH CURRY NOODLES WITH 
CABBAGE AND BEAN SPROUTS:  Omit the ﬁsh sauce for a vegan 
version of this recipe. Add about 1 cup shredded (or spiralized!) 
cabbage to the skillet just before serving. Serve with a small  
handful of bean sprouts (optional; omit if strict Paleo) and the  
lime wedges, as directed in the original recipe.BUTTERNUT SQUASH CURRY NOODLES
These butternut squash curry noodles are the perfect meal on a chilly 
day. This dish is easy to customize, so if you like your curry super-hot, 
you can have it that way, or you can easily keep it on the mild side. Curries are 
perfect for using up extra veggies you might have hanging around in your 
fridge. I love this combination of comforting squash noodles, spicy curry 
sauce, and fresh veggies. SERVES 4BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
79PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
NF 30 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 to 3 tablespoons grass-
fed butter
12 to 16 ounces 
mushrooms, sliced
2 or 3 garlic cloves, minced
3 fresh sage leaves, chopped, 
plus more whole leaves 
for garnish
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
PER SERVING Calories 198  
Fat 13g, Protein 5g, Sodium 365mg,  
Total Carbs 21g, Fiber 4g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and butter. 
Add the sliced mushrooms and stir. Add the garlic. Stir occa -
sionally as you spread the mushrooms out so they’re all making 
even contact with the skillet. Allow to cook until browned, 6 to 
8 minutes.
2. Stir in the sage leaves and season with salt and pepper. Use a 
slotted spoon to remove the mushroom-sage mixture and set aside. 
Add the butternut squash noodles to the skillet, and cook for 5 to 
7 minutes, or until fork-tender. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Transfer the butternut squash noodles to bowls and top with 
the mushroom mixture. Garnish each portion with one or two sage 
leaves and serve.
 VARIATION 1  BACON BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES WITH 
MUSHROOMS AND SAGE:  Dice 5 or 6 slices of bacon and add to 
the skillet in place of the olive oil and butter. Sauté the garlic in 
the bacon fat and add the mushrooms. Stir to combine and then 
follow the remaining recipe steps as listed in original, adding a 
little butter or olive oil along with the butternut squash noodles  
if the pan seems dry.
 VARIATION 2  SAUSAGE BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES WITH 
MUSHROOMS AND SAGE:  Add about a pound of your favorite 
sliced, cooked sausage to the skillet a few minutes before serving.BUTTERNUT SQUASH FETTUCCINI  
with MUSHROOMS and SAGE
This recipe is gorgeous—I just love fresh sage! I think it looks like a  
cute little lamb’s ear, and the light green color and soft texture is lovely, 
especially when paired with the vibrant orange of butternut squash noodles.  
I can’t get enough sautéed mushrooms. I make them at least once a week and 
serve them with everything—scrambled eggs, burgers, these squash noodles—  
and this recipe is one of my favorites. It’s especially nice in the fall, but I bet 
you’ll enjoy it all year round. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
80PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF 30 
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
2 ripe avocados
1 cup tightly packed fresh basil
2 garlic cloves
3 tablespoons pine nuts
Juice of 1 lemon, or 1 to  
2 tablespoons water
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 427  
Fat 37g, Protein 5g, Sodium 303mg,  
Total Carbs 28g, Fiber 10g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon of the 
olive oil and sauté the butternut squash noodles. Cook for 5 to 
7 minutes, or until fork-tender.
2. In a food processor or blender, process the avocados, basil, 
garlic, pine nuts, and lemon juice. Keep the food processor run -
ning as you drizzle in the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. 
Season with salt and pepper and add the mixture to the skillet 
with the butternut squash noodles.
3. Remove from the heat and toss to combine. Serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  ROASTED BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES WITH 
CREAMY PESTO:  Instead of sautéing the butternut squash 
noodles, toss them with 1 tablespoon of olive oil, season with salt 
and pepper, and roast them on a baking sheet at 415°F for 8 to 
10 minutes, or until squash noodles are fork-tender. Toss with 
pesto and serve.
 VARIATION 2  BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES WITH CREAMY 
CILANTRO-LIME “PESTO”:  Give this pesto a Latin kick by sub -
stituting fresh cilantro for the basil and lime juice for the lemon 
juice. Omit the pine nuts and serve the noodles tossed in the 
cilantro-lime avocado sauce and topped with crushed almonds,  
if desired.CREAMY PESTO NOODLES
Pesto is one of my favorite sauces to serve with pasta and noodles—it’s 
so easy to make, you don’t have to cook it, and it always reminds me so 
much of my mom, who used to serve pasta with pesto at least once a week 
when I was growing up. This pesto is made creamier with a couple of avoca -
dos and some lemon juice, which keeps it from turning brown and brightens 
up the ﬂavor. SERVES 4BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
81PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 small yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 pound hot Italian sausage
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
1 (14.5-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes (no sugar added)
PER SERVING Calories 562  
Fat 39g, Protein 26g, Sodium 1,054mg,  
Total Carbs 28g, Fiber 7g1. In a large saucepan over medium heat, heat the olive oil and 
sauté the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, until tender. Add 
the hot Italian sausage to the pot and cook until brown on all 
sides, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove the sausage from the pot and cut it 
into slices.
2. Add the butternut squash to the pot and stir to mix with the 
olive oil, onion, and garlic. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until the 
onion is tender, and add the sausage back in.
3. Add the crushed tomatoes and cook for another 5 minutes or 
so, or until the sausage is cooked through and the squash noodles 
are fork-tender. Serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  SPICY TOMATO SQUASH NOODLES:  Make this  
dish vegan by skipping the Italian sausage—just make sure to add 
at least 1⁄4 teaspoon crushed red pepper to make up for the spici -
ness of the meat.
 VARIATION 2  (NOT SPICY) SAUSAGE SQUASH NOODLES:   
If you aren’t into spicy foods, no sweat—just use a mild or sweet 
Italian sausage.SPICY SAUSAGE SQUASH NOODLES
This is an easy, one-pot meal that is sure to please everyone in your 
family. I love spicy Italian sausage, especially when paired with tomato 
sauce and noodles, so for me this is kind of the perfect weeknight dinner. I 
also like to serve it when people are visiting, because I think it’s such a com -
forting meal with a clearly home-cooked vibe to it. I hope you get to make 
this for someone you love soon. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
82PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter, 
plus more if needed 
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
2 tablespoons chopped fresh 
herbs (a mix of thyme, chives, 
and parsley)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 182  
Fat 9g, Protein 4g, Sodium 264mg,  
Total Carbs 25g, Fiber 6g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, brown the butter. Whisk fre -
quently until the butter begins to bubble and foam, 2 to 3 minutes. 
At this point, some brown milk solids will begin to form at the 
bottom of the skillet. Remove from the heat and pour the butter 
into a small bowl.
2. In the same skillet, sauté the butternut squash noodles for 
5 to 7 minutes, or until fork-tender, adding a little more butter if 
the noodles seem dry. Add the browned butter back in and toss 
to combine. Add the fresh herbs, season with salt and pepper, 
remove from the heat, and serve warm.
 VARIATION 1  BROWNED BUTTER(NUT) SQUASH NOODLES 
WITH ROSEMARY AND WALNUTS:  Add 1 teaspoon chopped 
fresh rosemary leaves (or 1⁄2 teaspoon dried rosemary) to the  
skillet along with the butternut squash, omitting the herbs from 
the original recipe. Garnish with 1 cup toasted walnuts. To toast 
the walnuts: Stir them in a small sauté pan over medium heat  
until golden and aromatic, about 2 minutes.
 VARIATION 2  BUTTERNUT SQUASH NOODLES WITH BROWNED 
BUTTER–CREAM SAUCE:  After removing the browned butter 
from the heat, add 1 tablespoon canned coconut cream. Stir to 
combine.BROWNED BUTTER(NUT) SQUASH NOODLES  
with FRESH HERBS
Making browned butter sounds intimidating, but don’t worry—it really 
isn’t as tricky as it sounds. Browned butter has a delicious, rich nuttiness 
that pairs beautifully with butternut squash, especially when accompanied by 
a bunch of fresh herbs like this recipe calls for. This dish is easy to make but 
super elegant and full of ﬂavor. It would be perfect for either a quick week -
night dinner or a cozy weekend date night. SERVES 4BU TTERN UT SQUA SH
83PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30
1 tablespoon grass-fed butter
1 garlic clove, sliced
1 (8-ounce) jar sun-dried 
tomatoes in oil
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and spiralized  
(see page 71)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
½ cup fresh basil, chopped
PER SERVING Calories 211  
Fat 11g, Protein 4g, Sodium 468mg,  
Total Carbs 30g, Fiber 6g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the 
garlic and sauté until fragrant, about 2 minutes, then add the jar  
of sun-dried tomatoes, including the oil in the jar.
2. Add the squash noodles to the skillet and stir. Season with 
salt and pepper. Cook for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the noodles are 
fork-tender. 
3. Remove from the heat and add the basil. Toss to combine 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  SUN-DRIED TOMATO–SAUSAGE BUTTERNUT 
SQUASH FETTUCCINI:  Add about 1 pound of your favorite sliced, 
cooked sausage to the skillet a few minutes before serving. Gar -
nish with basil as directed in the original recipe.
 VARIATION 2  SUN-DRIED TOMATO–BASIL BUTTERNUT 
SQUASH FETTUCCINI WITH SHRIMP:  Add 1 pound shrimp with 
the sun-dried tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper and cook on 
each side for about 2 minutes. Remove from the skillet, add the 
noodles, and cook as directed in the original recipe. Stir in the 
shrimp and serve warm.SUN-DRIED TOMATO–BASIL FETTUCCINI
Sun-dried tomatoes are super easy to ﬁnd year-round in a jar at your 
local grocery store. I like adding them to omelets, scrambled eggs,  
or baked chicken—and they're one of my favorite additions to pasta dishes, 
which is why I love this butternut squash fettuccini so much. Instead of regu -
lar olive oil, you’ll cook the squash noodles in the marinated oil from the jar  
of sun-dried tomatoes, which gives the whole dish a delicious ﬂavor. Then  
you ﬁnish it off with some fresh basil for a quick meal that’s as tasty as it is 
easy! SERVES 45
SWEET 
POTATOES85Other than zucchini, sweet potatoes are the main vege -
table that comes to mind when I think about spiralizing 
Paleo food. Sweet potatoes have always been the starch of 
choice for Paleo eaters, so it only makes sense that we’d be 
able to come up with 10 delicious sweet potato noodle recipes 
for you to experiment with!
Sweet potatoes are delicious and easy to prepare, they go 
well with almost everything, and you can make them sweet or 
savory—what’s not to love? In this chapter, you’ll ﬁnd every -
thing from stews and snacks to “pasta” meal variations, fritters, 
and even a casserole.
I personally like to peel my sweet potatoes before spiralizing, 
but it’s up to you—the only time I really like having the peel on 
is if I’m making Sweet Potato Curly Fries (page 88), because I 
think it gives them great texture and a little extra crunch.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
86PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  1 hour, 20 minutes
NF 
3 tablespoons ghee, divided
¼ medium yellow onion,  
chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
1 red bell pepper, diced
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
8 ounces breakfast sausage 
(ground sausage, or links with 
casings removed)
8 eggs
2 tablespoons sliced 
green onion
PER SERVING Calories 682  
Fat 35g, Protein 26g, Sodium 861mg,  
Total Carbs 67g, Fiber 10g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1  tablespoon of ghee. 
Sauté the onion and garlic until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add 
the sweet potato noodles and cook until fork-tender, 7 to 10 min -
utes. Transfer from the skillet to a baking dish.
2. Add the remaining 2  tablespoons ghee to the skillet and sauté 
the bell pepper for 2 to 3 minutes. Season with salt and pepper 
and add to the baking dish as a second layer.
3. Finally, add the sausage to the skillet and cook, stirring often, 
until no more pink remains, 6 to 8 minutes for ground or 8 to 
10 minutes for links. Season with salt and pepper and add to the 
baking dish as a third layer.
4. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
5. In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs well, season with salt and 
pepper, and pour over the casserole mixture in the baking dish. 
6. Bake for 50 to 70 minutes, or until the eggs are no longer 
runny. Serve hot, garnished with a sprinkle of sliced green onion.SWEET POTATO HASH BROWN CASSEROLE
I’m a big fan of casseroles for breakfast, and this one is a variation of 
one of my favorites from a few years ago. My in-laws always use my 
recipe when we’re together for the holidays, and it’s so fun to see something  
I created turn into a family tradition. I love diced sweet potatoes, but these 
sweet potato noodles get so much crispier and more ﬂavorful that there’s 
really no substitute for them. SERVES 4SWEET  POT ATO ES
87SWEET  POT ATO ES
87 VARIATION 1  VEGGIE SWEET POTATO HASH BROWN  
CASSEROLE:  For a vegetarian casserole, use 10 ounces sliced 
mushrooms instead of the sausage.
 VARIATION 2  SWEET POTATO AND CARROT NOODLE HASH 
BROWN CASSEROLE:  Use 1 spiralized sweet potato and 2 or 
3 spiralized carrots instead of all sweet potatoes. To make this 
recipe in advance, prepare through step 3 and then cover and 
refrigerate overnight. Remove the casserole from the refrigerator 
while the oven preheats, add the eggs, and bake as directed in  
the original recipe.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
88PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
3 or 4 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized and trimmed
2 to 3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 356  
Fat 11g, Protein 3g, Sodium 311mg,  
Total Carbs 63g, Fiber 9g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. In a large bowl, toss to combine the trimmed sweet potato  
noodles and olive oil. Season with salt and pepper and transfer  
to a baking sheet.
3. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the sweet potato curly fries 
are golden and beginning to crisp. Remove from the oven and 
allow to cool slightly before serving.
 VARIATION 1  SWEET POTATO CURRY FRIES: Add 1 tablespoon 
curry powder and 1⁄4 teaspoon crushed red pepper (if you like it 
spicier) to the sweet potato fries before baking.
 VARIATION 2  CHILI FRIES:  Serve these sweet potato curly fries 
with a couple of scoops of chili (page 134—omit the turnips if you 
wish). Don’t forget to grab a fork!SWEET POTATO CURLY FRIES
Curly fries were always something I thought you had to get in a restau -
rant or from the frozen food section at the grocery store, but now that  
I have a spiralizer it’s no big deal to whip up a batch of homemade ones! I use 
blade C because it creates noodles that are closest in size and shape to regu -
lar curly fries. After you spiralize them, use scissors or a small knife to cut the 
noodles into shorter pieces. SERVES 4SWEET  POT ATO ES
89PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30
1 large sweet potato, spiralized
1 egg, whisked
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon onion powder
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
PER SERVING Calories 140  
Fat 5g, Protein 4g, Sodium 343mg,  
Total Carbs 22g, Fiber 3g1. In a large bowl, toss to combine the sweet potato noodles with 
the egg, garlic powder, and onion powder and season with salt 
and pepper.
2. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat the olive oil. 
Create patties about the size of your palm with 1⁄4 cup of the 
sweet potato noodles and gently place in the hot oil. Cook for 4 to 
6 minutes, or until most of the surface is browned and the edges 
begin to crisp. Carefully ﬂip and cook for another 4 to 6 minutes 
on the other side. Remove from the skillet and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  SPIRALIZED SWEET POTATO FRITTER AND EGG 
SAMMIES:  Serve these sweet potato fritters as an open-faced 
breakfast sandwich with 2 pieces of cooked bacon, some lettuce, a 
slice of tomato, and a fried egg on top. To fry an egg, crack it right 
into the pan with a little grass-fed butter and cook on one side 
until the white is no longer runny. Carefully ﬂip and cook for 1 to 
2 minutes on the other side, depending on how done you want 
the yolk.
 VARIATION 2  SPIRALIZED SWEET POTATO FRITTERS WITH 
AVOCADO AND TOMATO:  Serve the sweet potato fritters topped 
with a quick salad of 1 diced avocado, 1 or 2 diced Roma toma -
toes, and a drizzle of balsamic vinaigrette (see page 47). Top with 
chopped basil as a garnish.SPIRALIZED SWEET POTATO FRITTERS
These spiralized sweet potato fritters make an excellent appetizer, side 
dish, or part of a main course—you can serve them with eggs, chicken, 
tuna salad, or alongside bunless burgers, to name a few ideas. They’re easy  
to dress up, and with the addition of a little drizzle of Paleo Ranch Dressing 
(page 154) and a couple of sliced green onions, they’re pretty close to  
perfect. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
90PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
DF NF
2 to 3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 or 3 garlic cloves 
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
1 pound beef stew meat
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
or diced tomatoes (no 
sugar added)
1 tablespoon chili powder
½ tablespoon ground cumin
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 cups beef broth
½ cup green peas (thawed 
if frozen)
PER SERVING Calories 570  
Fat 20g, Protein 43g, Sodium 793mg,  
Total Carbs 57g, Fiber 11g1. In a large pot over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the onion and garlic together, until translucent, for about 5 min -
utes. Add the sweet potato noodles, sauté for 3 to 4 minutes, or 
until the noodles start to become fork-tender, and remove the 
sweet potato noodles, onion, and garlic from the pot and set aside.
2. Add the beef to the pot and allow to brown on all sides.  
Add the tomatoes, and give everything a good stir. Season with 
chili powder, cumin, salt, and pepper. Add 1 cup of beef broth, 
bring everything to a boil, and then reduce the heat to low. Add 
the peas and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes.
3. Add the sweet potato noodles, onions, and garlic, and continue 
to simmer for about 10 minutes more. Stir in the remaining cup of 
beef broth before serving if the stew seems too thick or dry.
 VARIATION 1  WHITE CHICKEN CHILI WITH SWEET POTATO 
NOODLES:  Instead of beef stew meat, make this dish with a 
pound of ground chicken.
 VARIATION 2  TRADITIONAL BEEF STEW WITH CARROT  
NOODLES:  Replace the chili powder and cumin with 1 teaspoon 
each dried thyme and ground paprika. Instead of sweet potato 
noodles, use 3 or 4 large, spiralized carrots. Add them in 3 to 
4 minutes before you’re ready to serve. Garnish with a handful  
of chopped fresh dill.BEEF STEW with SWEET POTATO NOODLES
I make this stew at least once a week during the winter, and I love the 
addition of sweet potato noodles. They give it an extra level of hearti -
ness that is so delicious and keep this a one-pot recipe. This is the perfect 
Sunday night dinner—I make a big batch and have the leftovers for lunch  
the rest of the week! SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
92PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
30
1 tablespoon grass-fed butter 
or extra-virgin olive oil
¼ red onion, sliced thin
1 garlic clove, minced
1 to 2 tablespoons 
almond butter
Juice of 2 limes
2 tablespoons coconut aminos
½ tablespoon fish sauce
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
1 cup bean sprouts (optional; 
omit if strict Paleo)
3 or 4 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped
¾ cup sliced almonds
1 lime, quartered
PER SERVING Calories 436  
Fat 17g, Protein 12g, Sodium 809mg,  
Total Carbs 66g, Fiber 12g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the butter. Add the  
red onion and garlic and stir. Sauté for about 5 minutes, until trans -
lucent, and add the almond butter, lime juice, coconut aminos,  
and ﬁsh sauce.
2. Add the sweet potato noodles and cook in the sauce for  
4 to 5 minutes, or until the noodles start to become fork-tender. 
Add the bean sprouts (if using) and green onions and cook for  
an additional 2 to 3 minutes. 
3. Remove from the heat, top with the sliced almonds, and serve 
with a wedge of lime.
 VARIATION 1  THAI CHICKEN SWEET POTATO NOODLE BOWLS:  
Add about 1 pound steamed, shredded chicken breast to this 
recipe. Steam the chicken breasts by placing them in a steaming 
basket over a pot of hot water. Cover and cook for about 15 min -
utes, or until the juices run clear. Remove from the heat and allow 
to cool.
 VARIATION 2  THAI SHRIMP SWEET POTATO NOODLE BOWLS:  
Add 1 pound peeled shrimp to the skillet after you’ve made the 
sauce, but before you put the noodles in. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes 
per side, or until shrimp is pink and opaque.THAI ALMOND SWEET POTATO NOODLE BOWLS
I don’t use the fettuccini blade on the spiralizer often, but whenever I 
do I’m always reminded how much I love that shape of noodle, espe -
cially with Asian ﬂavors—I think it does such a great job mimicking the shape 
and texture of pad thai rice noodles. These Thai almond sweet potato noodles 
combine all the things I love about Thai cuisine, without any grains or excess 
carbs. SERVES 4SWEET  POT ATO ES
93PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
NF 30
2 tablespoons grass-fed butter,  
divided
½ yellow onion, diced
1 garlic clove, minced
¼ cup carrots, diced
¼ teaspoon peeled, minced 
fresh ginger
2 sweet potatoes, spiralized 
and riced
¼ cup green peas (thawed 
if frozen)
2 tablespoons coconut aminos
1½ tablespoons sesame oil
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
2 eggs
2 tablespoons sesame seeds
PER SERVING Calories 617  
Fat 31g, Protein 13g, Sodium 776mg,  
Total Carbs 74g, Fiber 12g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon of butter. 
Sauté the onion and garlic until translucent, about 5 minutes, and 
then add the carrots and ginger. Stir to combine and sauté for 
another 3 to 4 minutes, or until the veggies become fork-tender.
2. Add the sweet potato rice and stir to combine. Add the 
remaining 1 tablespoon of butter and the peas and cook every -
thing for 5 to 7 minutes. Add the coconut aminos, sesame oil,  
and crushed red pepper.
3. Move the vegetables over to one side and crack the eggs into 
the pan. Stir rapidly to scramble and start incorporating the fried 
rice into the scrambled eggs.
4. Serve hot, topped with sesame seeds.
 VARIATION 1  PORK FRIED SWEET POTATO “RICE”:  Add  
about 1 pound cooked diced pork to the pan about 5 minutes 
before serving.
 VARIATION 2  BREAKFAST SWEET POTATO RICE:  Sauté 
1⁄4 chopped yellow onion and a minced garlic clove in about 
1 tablespoon olive oil. Add the sweet potato rice and cook for 
about 5 minutes. Make room in the center of the pan for the  
eggs and scramble as directed in the original recipe. Add  
2 strips crumbled bacon and stir to combine.FRIED SWEET POTATO “RICE”
Making rice out of veggie noodles is relatively easy and always worth 
what sometimes ends up being kind of a mess—I love going to Trader 
Joe’s and buying the pre-“riced” cauliﬂower and broccoli rice, but it’s a lot 
more expensive than making it yourself. I like spiralizing sweet potatoes and 
then adding them to the food processor until it’s the consistency of rice—
voila! Now you can make all your favorite rice dishes out of veggies. SERVES 2THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
94PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
DF NF V 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
10 ounces mushrooms, sliced
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
2 cups fresh spinach
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 219  
Fat 8g, Protein 5g, Sodium 318mg,  
Total Carbs 36g, Fiber 6g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the onion for about 5 minutes, until translucent. Add the garlic and 
mushrooms and cook over medium-high heat for 6 to 7 minutes, or 
until the mushrooms are browned and crispy.
2. Add the sweet potato noodles and sauté for another 3 to 
4 minutes, or until the noodles start to become fork-tender. 
3. Add the spinach and stir gently until wilted. Season with salt 
and pepper and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  SWEET POTATO LINGUINI WITH MUSHROOMS, 
SPINACH, AND SAUSAGE:  Add a little extra protein to this 
dish by including 3 or 4 sliced Italian sausages to the skillet with 
the onions.
 VARIATION 2  SWEET POTATO LINGUINI WITH MUSHROOMS 
AND KALE:  Swap the spinach for curly kale. Add the kale to the 
skillet just before the sweet potato noodles and then follow the 
rest of the recipe as written.SWEET POTATO LINGUINI  
with MUSHROOMS and SPINACH
This sweet potato linguini with mushrooms and spinach is really  
satisfying and quick to throw together—I love anything with sautéed 
mushrooms, and whenever I can I like to add a couple of handfuls of fresh 
spinach to a dish to add some extra greens. Sweet potatoes are a great Paleo 
pasta alternative, and I think using blade C is the easiest way to re-create the 
feeling of regular noodles. SERVES 4SWEET  POT ATO ES
95PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter
1 garlic clove, minced
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
1 to 2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh tarragon
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 426  
Fat 18g, Protein 4g, Sodium 726mg,  
Total Carbs 64g, Fiber 9g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the 
garlic and sauté for 1 minute. Stir in the sweet potato noodles and 
mix well. Stir every 2 minutes until the noodles are tender, about 
5 minutes.
2. Add the tarragon, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  SWEET POTATO SPAGHETTI WITH BUTTER,  
TARRAGON, AND LOBSTER:  If you’re feeling particularly indul -
gent, add 1 or 2 chopped lobster tails along with the sweet potato 
noodles. They cook in just a few minutes. They’re done when  
the meat is opaque and ﬁrm with no translucency, but watch  
carefully—they go from done to overdone quickly.
 VARIATION 2  SWEET POTATO SPAGHETTI WITH BUTTER, 
TARRAGON, AND TUNA:  Make these noodles with seafood a 
bit more budget-friendly by serving with a 4-ounce piece of tuna 
(fresh, or thawed if frozen). To cook the ﬁsh, season with salt and 
pepper and cook for 3 to 4 minutes per side (or less if you prefer 
medium-rare or rare tuna).SPAGHETTI with BUTTER and TARRAGON
This recipe is delicious and incredibly easy to make—butter and tarra -
gon together is such a decadent combination. You can easily add any 
protein to this dish if you’d like, but I particularly love to use seafood. This 
recipe is a good starting point because it’s gorgeous on its own, but feel free 
to experiment with your favorite additions—the varieties below include 
chopped lobster or tuna, but shrimp would be good, too. SERVES 2THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
96PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
DF NF
1 pound ground beef
½ medium yellow onion,  
chopped
½ cup plus 1 tablespoon 
chopped fresh parsley
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 egg, beaten
½ teaspoon dried basil
½ teaspoon dried oregano
½ teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes
½ to 1 teaspoon crushed red 
pepper flakes (depending on 
your heat preference)
2 or 3 sweet potatoes, 
spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 992  
Fat 32g, Protein 79g, Sodium 809mg,  
Total Carbs 98g, Fiber 17g1. In a large bowl, mix to combine the beef, onion, 1⁄2 cup of 
parsley, the garlic, egg, basil, oregano, salt, and pepper. Roll the 
mixture into 2-inch meatballs.
2. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil. Care -
fully add the meatballs to the skillet. Brown the meatballs on all 
surfaces, about 5 minutes per side.
3. Add the diced tomatoes, red pepper ﬂakes, and sweet potato 
noodles, cook for 5 to 7 minutes more, or until the noodles start to 
become fork-tender, and remove from the heat. 
4. Garnish with the remaining 1 tablespoon of fresh parsley and 
serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  ZUCCHINI SPAGHETTI WITH MEATBALLS:  Use 
3 or 4 spiralized zucchini instead of sweet potatoes. Cook for 3 to 
4 minutes instead of 5 to 7.
 VARIATION 2  SWEET POTATO SPAGHETTI WITH TURKEY 
MEATBALLS:  Use ground turkey instead of beef to lighten this 
recipe up a bit. The cook time will be the same. ONE-POT SPAGHETTI and MEATBALLS
Paleo spaghetti and meatballs is one of my favorite meals to make,  
with zucchini noodles and sweet potatoes alike. I’m always frustrated 
with meatballs in Italian restaurants because they usually contain bread 
crumbs, but I’ve found that they’re just as good without any ﬁllers—just meat 
and spices and a little salt and pepper. For this recipe, you could easily make 
the meatballs ahead of time and then simmer everything together in the 
tomato sauce. SERVES 2SWEET  POT ATO ES
97PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
1 tablespoon ghee
½ red onion, sliced
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 pound boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts or thighs
2 tablespoons Taco Seasoning 
(page 155)
2 limes, divided
2 sweet potatoes, spiralized
1 cup Enchilada Sauce 
(page 156)
2 to 3 tablespoons chopped 
fresh cilantro, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 517  
Fat 18g, Protein 40g, Sodium 742mg,  
Total Carbs 59g, Fiber 19g1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. In a large, ovenproof skillet over medium heat, heat the ghee 
and sauté the red onion. Cook for 5 to 6 minutes, until translucent, 
stirring occasionally to keep the onions from sticking. Season with 
salt and pepper.
3. Season the chicken breasts with the taco seasoning and place 
them in the skillet, moving the onions around so the chicken gets 
contact with the pan. Cook for 4 to 5 minutes on each side, until 
the chicken is browned. Squeeze 1 lime over the chicken and add 
the sweet potato noodles. Season again with salt and pepper.
4. Pour the enchilada sauce over everything and transfer the 
dish to the oven. Bake for about 15 minutes, or until the chicken is 
cooked through. Serve with lime wedges and a sprinkle of cilantro.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN ENCHILADA BROCCOLI BAKE:  Instead 
of sweet potato noodles, sauté the ﬂorets from 1 head of broccoli 
in the ghee with the onion (save the stem for chapter 7 recipes). 
Remove the ﬂorets and onions, brown the chicken as directed, and 
then return the broccoli ﬂorets to the skillet. Follow the rest of the 
recipe steps as written.
 VARIATION 2  SLOW COOKER CHICKEN ENCHILADA SWEET 
POTATO CASSEROLE:  Make this recipe overnight or while  
you’re at work by adding all of the ingredients except for the 
garnishes to a slow cooker and cooking on low for at least 8 hours. 
For improved ﬂavor and texture, cook the onions and brown the 
chicken ﬁrst.CHICKEN ENCHILADA NOODLE BAKE
Sometimes I’ll get a craving for Mexican food and it feels like only  
tacos or nachos will satisfy it, but lately I’ve been making this healthier 
chicken enchilada sweet potato noodle bake instead. It’s a Paleo way to 
incorporate some of those delicious Mexican ﬂavors without grains, sugar,  
or cheese. You can switch up the vegetables easily, too—the other night I 
made this with chopped Brussels sprouts instead of sweet potato noodles, 
and it was just as good. SERVES 46
CUCUMBERS99Cucumbers are one of my favorite vegetables to spiralize 
because they’re only good raw, which makes these 
recipes super quick, super light, and super fun to make. 
They're perfect for when it’s too hot outside to even think 
about cooking, which is how I discovered them in the ﬁrst 
place. It was summer in Charlotte, North Carolina, and I ate 
cucumber noodles nearly every day for lunch.
I don’t have a favorite blade to use for cucumber noodles 
because cook time isn’t an issue, so it’s just a matter of what 
kind of noodle you’re in the mood for. C provides a nice 
crunch, but if there’s ever a time to use blade A, it’s deﬁ -
nitely with cucumbers—the wide noodles are so pretty, and 
I love getting a nice big bowl of ribbon noodles out of just 
1 or 2 cucumbers. No matter how you slice them, cucumber 
noodles will be a fun and fresh addition to your spiralizing 
repertoire.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
100PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes,  
plus 2 hours to chill
DF NF 
½ cup red wine vinegar
½ cup water
¼ cup honey
1 to 2 tablespoons salt
1 tablespoon black 
peppercorns
1 tablespoon mustard seeds
2 large cucumbers, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 93  
Fat <1g, Protein 1g, Sodium 297mg,  
Total Carbs 23g, Fiber <1g1. In a small saucepan, bring the vinegar, water, honey, salt,  
peppercorns, and mustard seeds to a boil. Turn oﬀ the heat.
2. Pack the cucumber noodles into clean jars. Remove the  
brine from the heat and carefully pour it over the cucumbers.  
Allow to come to room temperature, cover, and refrigerate for  
at least 2 hours.
 VARIATION 1  QUICK-PICKLED CUCUMBER NOODLES AND RED 
ONION NOODLES:  Add 1⁄2 red onion, spiralized, to the jars with 
the cucumber noodles—use blade A or B to give some texture 
variation!
 VARIATION 2  QUICK-PICKLED OKRA AND CARROTS:  Use this 
brine on whole okra and carrot slices. Try stacking them on tooth -
picks and serving them with your next batch of Bloody Marys.QUICK-PICKLED CUCUMBER NOODLES
Most of my favorite dishes come with pickled cucumbers—I love them 
on poke bowls and bibimbap—really any Asian dish that’s usually 
served over rice. These quick-pickled cucumber noodles make it easy to enjoy 
them any time, as a snack or with your favorite meal. SERVES 4CUCUM BERS
101PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF V R 30
2 or 3 large cucumbers, 
spiralized
Juice of 1 lemon
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons fresh dill,  
chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 149  
Fat 13g, Protein 2g, Sodium 301mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 1gIn a large bowl, toss to combine the cucumber noodles with the 
lemon juice, olive oil, and dill and season with salt and pepper. 
Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  CUCUMBER NOODLE SALAD WITH LEMON, DILL, 
AND TUNA:  Serve these cucumber noodles topped with 2 cans of 
tuna—season with salt and pepper and a small drizzle of olive oil.
 VARIATION 2  CHICKEN AND CUCUMBER NOODLE SALAD  
WITH LEMON AND DILL:  Top each bowl of cucumber noodles 
with about 4 ounces sliced grilled chicken. To grill the chicken, 
brush with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Cook on a 
grill or grill pan over medium heat for 8 to 10 minutes per side, 
until completely opaque and the juices run clear.CUCUMBER NOODLE SALAD with LEMON and DILL
I love lemon and dill together—it’s such a bright and crisp combination 
of ﬂavors, and when you pair it with cucumber noodles, it’s seriously 
refreshing. If you can’t ﬁnd fresh dill, a pinch of dried dill would be just ﬁne—
just make sure you’re using fresh lemon juice! I like squeezing a lemon right 
over the bowl and seasoning with a pinch of salt and some cracked black 
pepper. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
102PREP TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V R 30
½ cup sesame oil
¼ cup rice vinegar
1 teaspoon chili garlic oil
2 or 3 large cucumbers, 
spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 tablespoons 
sesame seeds
1 tablespoon chopped fresh 
cilantro, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 321  
Fat 31g, Protein 2g, Sodium 296mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 2g1. In a small bowl, stir to combine the sesame oil, rice vinegar, and 
chili garlic oil. 
2. Put the cucumber noodles in a large bowl, pour the dressing 
over the cucumber noodles, and toss to combine. Season with salt 
and pepper. 
3. Serve the noodles topped with sesame seeds and cilantro.
 VARIATION 1  SESAME-VINEGAR CUCUMBER RIBBON SALAD 
WITH SESAME CHICKEN:  Top this salad with diced sesame 
chicken—dice up about 1 pound boneless chicken breast and 
sauté in 1 tablespoon olive oil plus 1 tablespoon sesame oil. Cook 
over medium heat for 7 to 10 minutes, or until all sides of the 
chicken are browned. Allow to cool slightly before adding to the 
cucumbers.
 VARIATION 2  SESAME-VINEGAR CUCUMBER RIBBON SALAD 
WITH CHILI-GARLIC SHRIMP:  Serve the sesame-vinegar cucum -
ber noodles topped with chili-garlic shrimp—toss 1 pound raw 
peeled shrimp in 1 to 2 tablespoons chili garlic oil or chili garlic 
sauce and sauté for 2 to 3 minutes per side, or until shrimp is pink 
and opaque. Allow to cool slightly before adding to the cucumber 
noodles.SESAME-VINEGAR CUCUMBER RIBBON SALAD
I make a variation of this cucumber noodle dish almost every day 
during the summer—I ﬁnd that the crunch of raw cucumber is so much 
more satisfying to me than cooked zucchini noodles, especially when I’m not 
in the mood to cook. This sesame-vinegar cucumber ribbon salad is tangy 
and fresh, and using blade A gives you nice wide but thin noodles that are  
just perfect for twirling with chopsticks. SERVES 4CUCUM BERS
103PREP TIME:  15 minutes,  
plus 4 to 6 hours to chill 
DF NF V R 
1½ pounds tomatoes, chopped
1 small yellow onion, chopped
1 small jalapeño pepper, 
seeded and minced
1 garlic clove
1 tablespoon sherry vinegar, 
plus more if needed
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more if needed
1 large cucumber, spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 109  
Fat 9g, Protein 2g, Sodium 201mg,  
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 2g1. In a blender, purée the tomatoes, onion, jalapeño, and garlic 
until very smooth, about 2 minutes.
2. With the blender going, add the vinegar and season with salt 
and pepper. Drizzle the olive oil in as the soup emulsiﬁes to a 
creamy consistency.
3. Strain the soup and discard the solids. Transfer to a pitcher or 
bowl and chill for 4 to 6 hours.
4. To serve, ﬁll a bowl with cucumber noodles and pour the  
gazpacho over it. Season again with salt, pepper, and a splash 
more vinegar or oil as needed.
 VARIATION 1  GAZPACHO WITH CUCUMBER NOODLES AND 
SHRIMP:  Serve this soup topped with 3 or 4 cooked, chilled 
shrimp and a slice of lemon.
 VARIATION 2  SPICY WATERMELON GAZPACHO WITH CUCUMBER  
NOODLES:  Replace half of the tomatoes with watermelon for a fun  
and fruity twist on this recipe. Add extra jalapeño if you like your 
food a little spicier.GAZPACHO with CUCUMBER NOODLES
I’m a big fan of a nice bowl (or glass, usually) of ice-cold gazpacho in 
the summer. It’s easy to put together, and you don’t even have to cook, 
but you need to chill it for several hours. I like to make this ahead of time so 
it’s ready as soon as I plan to serve it. Instead of adding the cucumber directly 
to the blender, I kept it out and served it as noodles to give this usually 
smooth soup a nice crunch. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
104PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF V R 30
2 or 3 cucumbers, spiralized
¼ red onion, sliced thin  
or spiralized
1 cup cherry tomatoes, halved
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼ cup balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 266  
Fat 26g, Protein 2g, Sodium 343mg,  
Total Carbs 11g, Fiber 2g1. In a large bowl, toss to combine the cucumber noodles, onions, 
and cherry tomatoes. 
2. In a small bowl, mix to combine the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, 
and Dijon mustard, and season with salt and pepper. 
3. Pour the dressing over the salad, toss to combine, and serve 
immediately.
 VARIATION 1  TOMATO, ONION, AND CUCUMBER NOODLE 
SALAD WITH PALEO RANCH:  Instead of balsamic vinaigrette 
(omit the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, and Dijon mustard), serve this 
salad tossed with about 3 ⁄4 cup Paleo Ranch Dressing (page 154).
 VARIATION 2  TOMATO, ONION, AND CUCUMBER NOODLE 
SALAD WITH AVOCADO:  Serve this salad with 1 or 2 diced avo -
cados. Sprinkle with a little fresh lime juice to keep the avocado 
from turning brown.TOMATO, ONION, and CUCUMBER NOODLE SALAD
I’m sure you’ve seen a sliced cucumber and tomato salad with red 
onion at at least one summer cookout, and this is a spiralized take on 
that classic. Cucumber noodles are the star of this dish, and if you aren’t in  
the mood to slice the red onion, you could spiralize that too—just make sure 
to use blade A or D to switch up the texture and size of noodles in the 
salad. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
106PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
½ pound green beans, cleaned 
and trimmed
2 large cucumbers, spiralized
1 garlic clove, minced
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
¼ cup fresh mint, chopped
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 104  
Fat 7g, Protein 2g, Sodium 299mg,  
Total Carbs 10g, Fiber 3g1. In a medium saucepan, quickly blanch the green beans by 
cooking them in boiling water for about 2 minutes. Drain and then 
shock them in a bowl of ice water to stop the cooking process.
2. In a large bowl, mix the cucumber noodles and green beans 
together. Add the garlic, olive oil, and fresh mint. Toss to combine. 
Season with salt and pepper and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  CUCUMBER-MINT GREEN BEAN SALAD WITH 
CHICKEN:  Add 4 to 6 ounces canned or shredded chicken to this 
salad. Toss everything together as directed in the original recipe 
and serve with a spritz of fresh lemon juice.
 VARIATION 2  CUCUMBER-TARRAGON GREEN BEAN SALAD 
WITH OLIVES:  Add 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup sliced Kalamata or canned 
olives to this dish and replace the mint with a few tablespoons  
fresh tarragon.CUCUMBER-MINT GREEN BEAN SALAD
This salad is full of familiar ﬂavors, but the combination is a bit unusual. 
I’m a big fan of mixing warm and cool elements, so I love the way the 
quickly cooked green beans combine with room-temperature or cold cucum -
ber noodles. A hint of fresh mint provides an unexpected pop of ﬂavor that 
perks up all of the other ingredients. This would be a great dish to bring to 
your next potluck. SERVES 4CUCUM BERS
107PREP TIME:  10 minutes,  
plus 2 hours to marinate
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
DF NF 
2 garlic cloves, sliced thin
¼ cup fish sauce
1 tablespoon honey
4 to 6 green onions, sliced thin
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 tablespoon chili garlic oil  
or chili garlic sauce, plus more 
if needed
1½ pounds pork tenderloin, 
sliced thin
2 or 3 large cucumbers, 
spiralized
3 or 4 carrots, sliced thin
1 cup loosely packed fresh 
cilantro, chopped
PER SERVING Calories 265  
Fat 9g, Protein 32g, Sodium 1,126mg,  
Total Carbs 15g, Fiber 2g1. In a container with a lid, mix the garlic, ﬁsh sauce, honey, green 
onions, coconut aminos, sesame oil, and chili garlic oil. Add the 
sliced pork and cover. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours.
2. Remove the pork from the refrigerator and cook in a large skil -
let over medium-high heat until browned on all sides and cooked 
through, about 5 minutes. Remove from the heat.
3. To assemble the dish, layer the cucumber noodles and sliced 
carrots into bowls and top with the cooked pork. Add more chili 
garlic oil or chili garlic sauce if desired, garnish with the cilantro, 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  PORK BÁNH MÌ NOODLES WITH BEAN SPROUTS 
AND GINGER:  Top these bowls with a handful of bean sprouts 
(optional; omit if strict Paleo) and about 1 tablespoon pickled  
ginger from a jar (the kind they serve when you order sushi).
 VARIATION 2  PORK BÁNH MÌ NOODLES WITH CHILI-GARLIC 
AIOLI:  Instead of adding more chili garlic oil or chili garlic  
sauce to this dish on its own, mix 1 to 2 teaspoons with a couple  
of tablespoons Paleo Mayo (page 154) and serve on the side  
for dipping.PORK BÁNH MÌ NOODLES
My husband always orders a bánh mì sandwich whenever we go to a 
Vietnamese restaurant, and I’m always jealous—they look so good, but  
I just can’t handle the bread! I used to order a bánh mì burger (pork burger 
with all the bánh mì ﬁxins) without a bun, so I ﬁgured I could easily make a 
bánh mì sandwich into a Paleo noodle bowl with cucumbers, carrots, and all 
of the other delicious ﬂavors that make bánh mì so popular. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
108PREP TIME:  5 minutes, plus 
20 minutes to marinate
COOK TIME:  15 minutes, plus 
5 minutes to rest
NF
1½ pounds boneless, skinless 
chicken thighs
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 garlic cloves, smashed 
and chopped
1 or 2 red chiles, sliced thin 
(depending on your heat 
preference)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons ghee
2 or 3 large cucumbers, 
spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 447  
Fat 23g, Protein 51g, Sodium 442mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 1g1. In a container with a lid, marinate the chicken thighs in the 
olive oil with the smashed garlic and sliced chiles. Season with salt 
and pepper. Refrigerate for at least 20 minutes.
2. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, melt the ghee. Add 
the chicken thighs along with the smashed garlic and chile mari -
nade. Cook for 6 to 7 minutes per side, or until the outside of the 
chicken is browned and the juices run clear. Remove from the 
heat, allow to rest for about 5 minutes, and then slice the chicken.
3. In a large bowl, toss the cucumber noodles together with the 
chicken and some of the chiles and garlic from the pan. Serve 
while the chicken is still warm.
 VARIATION 1  GARLIC AND CHILI–SMASHED SHRIMP WITH 
CUCUMBER NOODLES:  Make this recipe with shrimp instead of 
chicken. Use 1 1⁄2 pounds peeled shrimp and marinate it the same 
way. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes per side, or until shrimp is pink and 
opaque, and then add the shrimp to the cucumber noodles as 
directed in the original recipe.
 VARIATION 2  GARLIC AND CHILI–SMASHED CHICKEN WITH 
CARROT NOODLES:  Make this recipe with spiralized carrots 
instead of cucumbers. Use blade C and add the noodles to the 
skillet with the chicken for 2 to 3 minutes before serving to soften.GARLIC and CHILE–SMASHED CHICKEN  
with CUCUMBER NOODLES
This is another one of those dishes that you might throw together one 
time because you have all the ingredients on hand, but before you 
know it you’re writing down the recipe and handing it out to your friends 
because they want to make it, too. You can adjust the heat of this dish by 
using more or fewer red chile peppers, but I personally like it really spicy, 
especially since it’s paired with cool cucumber noodles. SERVES 4CUCUM BERS
109PREP TIME:  15 minutes 
DF NF 30
2 or 3 large cucumbers, 
spiralized
1 pound cooked shrimp, 
deveined with the shell off 
(tails on for easier dipping)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 lemon, zested and 
then halved
½ cup tomato sauce  
(no sugar added)
1 tablespoon horseradish
Hot sauce (depending on your 
heat preference)
PER SERVING Calories 181  
Fat 2g, Protein 28g, Sodium 747mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 2g1. In a large bowl, season the cucumber noodles and shrimp  
with salt and pepper and squeeze one of the lemon halves over 
the bowl. Toss thoroughly.
2. In a small bowl, combine the tomato sauce and the juice of the 
remaining lemon half with the lemon zest and horseradish. Add 
hot sauce to taste and season with salt and pepper.
3. Serve the cucumber noodles and shrimp with a dollop of cock -
tail sauce, or you can serve the sauce on the side.
 VARIATION 1  CUCUMBER NOODLE SHRIMP COCKTAIL WITH 
AIOLI:  Make the cocktail sauce into a creamy, indulgent-tasting 
aioli by mixing 1 to 2 tablespoons Paleo Mayo (page 154) with the 
tomato sauce, lemon, and horseradish.
 VARIATION 2  CUCUMBER NOODLE GRILLED SHRIMP COCKTAIL:  
Grill the shrimp and serve it hot over the cool cucumber noodles. 
To grill the shrimp, coat in about 1 tablespoon olive oil and place  
on a grill or grill pan over medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes per side, 
or until shrimp is pink and opaque (it’s a lot easier to skewer them 
ﬁrst so they all stay in one place).CUCUMBER NOODLE SHRIMP COCKTAIL
This cucumber noodle shrimp cocktail is more of a salad than a tradi -
tional shrimp cocktail. You can serve the cucumber noodles on the  
side if you want, but I like them either tossed with the shrimp or in a bowl with 
the shrimp on top. However you prefer to present it, cucumber noodles add  
a little something to the shrimp and (Paleo) cocktail sauce that we’re all so 
familiar with, and I love turning what is usually an appetizer into a more sub -
stantial snack or a light lunch. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
110PREP TIME:  15 minutes 
DF NF R 30
2 cucumbers, spiralized
8 ounces sushi-grade ahi 
tuna, diced
2 or 3 carrots, shredded
1 small daikon radish, shredded
2 tablespoons coconut aminos
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
1 teaspoon sesame oil
½ teaspoon red pepper flakes
2 or 3 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped
¼ cup seaweed salad (store-
bought, optional)
2 to 3 tablespoons pickled 
ginger (optional)
Sesame seeds, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 366  
Fat 12g, Protein 35g, Sodium 1,035mg,  
Total Carbs 31g, Fiber 6g1. In a large bowl, mix the cucumber noodles with the tuna,  
carrots, and daikon.
2. In a small bowl, mix the coconut aminos, rice vinegar, sesame 
oil, red pepper ﬂakes, and green onions. 
3. Pour the dressing over the poke bowl ingredients and mix  
thoroughly. Serve with seaweed salad and ginger (if using) and 
sesame seeds sprinkled on top.
 VARIATION 1  CUCUMBER NOODLE POKE BOWL WITH 
SALMON:  Use raw salmon instead of tuna if you prefer. (Just  
make sure it’s high quality.)
 VARIATION 2  CUCUMBER NOODLE POKE BOWL WITH  
AVOCADO:  Dice up an avocado and toss it with the rest of the 
ingredients and dressing.CUCUMBER NOODLE POKE BOWL
Poke bowls are my new favorite thing—I think they’re going to be  
the next avocado toast (which was the next acai bowls, am I right?). 
When we ﬁrst moved to California, I probably ate two or three per week, 
which was delicious, but expensive, and I was consuming way more white  
rice than I usually do. So now I make them at home, and I substitute cucum -
ber noodles for rice, which saves a lot of carbs and keeps me from spending 
$15 (seriously—yikes) on a lunch that I can make myself for much, much 
less. SERVES 2CUCUM BERS
111CUCUMBER NOODLES IN ALMOND BUTTER SAUCE
This quick noodle dish is perfect when you’re in the mood for something 
Thai-inspired but want to skip the non-Paleo ingredients so often found 
in takeout noodle and rice dishes. This dressing is easy to throw together and 
you can customize it to be spicier if you prefer it that way. SERVES 2
PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF R 30
½ cup almond butter
3 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
2 teaspoons sesame oil
¼ teaspoon crushed red 
pepper (or more depending on 
your heat preference)
1 lime, halved
2 cucumbers, spiralized
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 133,  
Fat 7g, Protein 4g, Sodium 928mg, 
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 2g1. In a small bowl, mix together the almond butter, rice vinegar, 
coconut aminos, sesame oil, crushed red pepper, and the juice of 
one of the lime halves.
2. Place the cucumber noodles in a large bowl and pour the 
dressing on top. Toss well to combine. Season with salt and pep -
per and transfer onto plates or bowls for serving. Garnish with a 
slice of fresh lime.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN CUCUMBER NOODLES WITH ALMOND 
BUTTER SAUCE:  Serve these noodles with 4 to 6 ounces cubed 
or shredded cooked chicken. You can make more almond butter 
sauce if you want, or you can toss everything together in the exist -
ing sauce if you prefer.
 VARIATION 2  CUCUMBER NOODLES WITH CASHEW BUTTER 
SAUCE:  Use cashew butter instead of almond butter (you can 
make your own by blending cashews in a food processor) for the 
sauce. Combine with the noodles as directed in original recipe.7
BROCCOLI113If you did a double take when you read that there was a  
broccoli chapter in a book full of spiralized recipes, you 
aren’t alone. But broccoli noodles are a thing! If you’ve ever 
tossed a broccoli stem and wondered if there was anything 
else you could do with it, then you’re in luck—all 10 of these 
recipes feature noodles made from broccoli stems. I’m a huge 
fan of saving money and not wasting food, so realizing that the 
stems of broccoli are not just useable but also delicious was a 
game changer in my kitchen.
When you’re spiralizing broccoli noodles, look for heads of 
broccoli that are large enough to have a stem that will yield 
noodles. Pre-chopped broccoli is super convenient, but it’s 
obviously not what you want in this case. Before spiralizing, 
cut oﬀ the ﬂorets (but don’t throw them away—many of the  
recipes in this chapter use them in addition to the noodles) 
and give the stem a quick peel if there are any knobs stick -
ing out. Broccoli noodles need only a few minutes to cook, so 
before you know it, you’ll have a delicious plate full of veggies 
that you might have otherwise thrown out!THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
114PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 Minutes
DF NF 
1 to 2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ a medium yellow onion
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets, 
stem spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
6 eggs
1 (14-ounce) can 
artichoke hearts
Sliced green onion, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 186  
Fat 11g, Protein 11g, Sodium 400mg,  
Total Carbs 14g, Fiber 6g1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. In a cast iron or ovenproof skillet over medium heat, heat the 
olive oil and sauté the onion and garlic until tender, about 5 min -
utes. Add the broccoli ﬂorets and noodles and stir gently. Season 
with salt and pepper.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk the eggs.
4. Spread the onion, broccoli, and artichoke hearts evenly in  
the skillet. Slowly pour the eggs in and increase the heat to 
medium-high. Season with salt and pepper, and allow to cook  
until the edges start to pull away from the skillet, 3 to 4 minutes.
5. Transfer the frittata to the oven and cook until the top is no 
longer runny, 15 to 20 minutes. 
6. Allow to cool slightly, garnish with sliced green onion, 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  BROCCOLI AND ARTICHOKE FRITTATA WITH 
SAUSAGE:  Add 1⁄2 pound of your favorite breakfast sausage, 
crumbled or sliced, to the skillet after the onions, before the broc -
coli. Cook for 4 to 5 minutes, or until mostly browned. Follow the 
remaining original recipe steps.
 VARIATION 2  BROCCOLI AND ARTICHOKE FRITTATA WITH 
CHERRY TOMATOES:  Sprinkle 1 cup sliced cherry tomatoes on 
top of the frittata right before you pop it into the oven.BROCCOLI and ARTICHOKE FRITTATA
I always keep canned artichoke hearts in my pantry—they make such a 
nice addition to so many recipes, and they’re a great (albeit nontradi -
tional) snack all on their own. Recently, my favorite thing to do with them is 
add them to a frittata. It reminds me a little of pizza, since I used to love 
artichokes on my pizza back in my gluten-eating days (and sometimes still,  
in my gluten-free pizza cheat days). SERVES 6BRO CC OLI
115PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF 30 
4 to 6 slices bacon, 
roughly chopped
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets, 
stem spiralized
3 cups spinach
2 carrots, shredded
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 shallot, minced
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
1 to 2 tablespoons honey 
(depending on your sweetness 
preference)
PER SERVING Calories 278  
Fat 23g, Protein 8g, Sodium 568mg,  
Total Carbs 13g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, cook the bacon. Add the 
broccoli noodles after 4 to 5 minutes and cook for another 2 to 
3 minutes, or until the noodles are fork-tender and the bacon 
is crispy.
2. In a large bowl, toss to combine the broccoli ﬂorets, spinach, 
and carrots. Season with salt and pepper. 
3. In a small bowl, make the vinaigrette by mixing the minced 
shallot with the olive oil, apple cider vinegar, and honey. Pour the 
vinaigrette over the salad.
4. Add the broccoli noodles and bacon, toss to combine, and 
serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  WARM BROCCOLI SALAD WITH BACON  
AND CHICKEN:  Serve each plate of this salad topped with 4 to 
6 ounces sliced cooked chicken (either grilled or steamed).
 VARIATION 2  WARM BROCCOLI AND KALE SALAD WITH 
BACON:  Instead of spinach, use 3 cups massaged curly kale. To 
massage kale, drizzle 1 to 2 tablespoons olive oil over raw kale and 
massage with your hands for about 5 minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper.WARM BROCCOLI SALAD with BACON
Broccoli salad with bacon and a warm vinaigrette is a party staple, so 
I’m sure you’ve had something similar at some point. This version feels 
a little less like a salad because the warm component comes from quickly 
sautéed broccoli noodles. It’s unusual but familiar at once, and I think it might 
become your new go-to recipe when you’re in the mood for a fun and ﬂavor -
ful salad. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
116PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
2 to 3 tablespoons grass-
fed butter
1 medium yellow onion, 
roughly chopped
2 or 3 garlic cloves, 
roughly chopped
2 heads broccoli, cut into 
ﬂorets, stems spiralized
5 to 6 cups vegetable 
broth, divided
1 (14.5-ounce) can 
coconut milk
¼ teaspoon crushed red 
pepper or ground cayenne 
pepper (optional)
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 432  
Fat 36g, Protein 14g, Sodium 1,559mg,  
Total Carbs 20g, Fiber 7g1. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté 
the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, until translucent. Add the 
broccoli ﬂorets and sauté for another 5 to 6 minutes.
2. Add 5 cups of vegetable broth and the coconut milk. Add 
the crushed red pepper (if using), season with salt and pepper, 
and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 10 to 
15 minutes, or until the broccoli has softened.
3. Use an immersion blender (or a regular blender) to very care -
fully purée the soup. Add more vegetable broth (or some water)  
if the soup is too thick for your liking.
4. Add the broccoli noodles and continue to simmer the soup for 
an additional 4 to 6 minutes. Serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  CREAM OF BROCCOLI NOODLE SOUP WITH BEEF 
BROTH:  Make this soup even more ﬂavorful by using beef broth 
instead of vegetable broth.
 VARIATION 2  CREAM OF BROCCOLI NOODLE SOUP WITH 
BACON:  Garnish the soup with a couple of tablespoons of 
cooked, crumbled bacon. Try cooking the bacon in the oven on  
a cookie sheet at 400°F for 10 to 15 minutes.CREAM of BROCCOLI NOODLE SOUP
I really love cream of broccoli soup, but I never get it anymore because 
it is a cream-based soup that usually comes loaded with cheese. It isn’t 
exactly a Paleo-friendly way to enjoy broccoli. I’ve solved this problem by 
using coconut milk instead of dairy, and you won’t ﬁnd cheese anywhere in 
the recipe. To get even more bang for your buck (budget- and nutrition-wise), 
you’ll spiralize the stems and add broccoli noodles to the soup before serving.  
SERVES 4BRO CC OLI
117PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF V 30
½ cup plus 2 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
2 heads broccoli, cut into 
ﬂorets, stems spiralized
2 cups fresh basil
¼ cup pine nuts
2 or 3 garlic cloves 
2 tablespoons water
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 370,  
Fat 38g, Protein 4g, Sodium 322mg, 
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat 2 tablespoons of olive 
oil. Add the broccoli ﬂorets and cook for 3 to 4 minutes before 
adding the broccoli noodles. Cook for another 4 to 5 minutes.
2. While the broccoli is cooking, in a blender or food proces -
sor, make the pesto by blending the basil, pine nuts, garlic, and 
water and season with salt and pepper. With the blender running, 
stream in the remaining 1⁄2 cup of olive oil.
3. Remove the broccoli from the heat, add the pesto, and toss to 
combine. Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  PESTO BROCCOLI SPAGHETTI WITH CHICKEN:  
Add about 1 pound diced chicken to the skillet with the broccoli 
ﬂorets. Cook until all sides are browned and the chicken is cooked 
through, 6 to 8 minutes.
 VARIATION 2  WALNUT PESTO BROCCOLI SPAGHETTI:  Use raw 
walnuts instead of pine nuts when making the pesto.PESTO BROCCOLI SPAGHETTI
Pesto with broccoli spaghetti is the perfect meal to make when you 
haven’t been shopping in ages and have only random stuff in your 
fridge and freezer—in my case, that usually means some leftover veggies  
(like a broccoli stem) and some frozen pesto. You can always make the pesto 
fresh if you don’t have any in your freezer, but don’t let that stop you from 
making a double batch for next time! SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
118PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
2 tablespoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
1 garlic clove, minced
1 pound ground beef
1 to 2 tablespoons gochujang—
Korean chili sauce (depending 
on your heat preferences)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 tablespoons grass-
fed butter
4 to 6 ounces shitake 
mushrooms
2 or 3 carrots, julienned
2 or 3 broccoli stems, 
spiralized and riced
2 to 4 eggs, depending on how 
many servings you’re making
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sesame seeds
PER SERVING Calories 460  
Fat 25g, Protein 43g, Sodium 957mg,  
Total Carbs 15g, Fiber 4g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the sesame oil and 
coconut aminos and sauté the garlic for about 1 minute and then 
stir in the ground beef. Cook until browned, about 5 minutes, and 
then add the gochujang. After 5 or 6 minutes, remove everything 
from the skillet. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Add 1 tablespoon of butter and the mushrooms to the skillet. 
Cook for 3 to 4 minutes and then use a slotted spoon to remove 
the mushrooms from the skillet.
3. Add the carrots and sauté over medium-high heat for 2 to 
3 minutes, or until the veggies become fork-tender. Use a slotted 
spoon to remove the carrots from the pan. Add the broccoli rice 
and sauté for 4 to 5 minutes, or until fork-tender and beginning to 
brown on some sides. Remove the broccoli rice from the skillet.
4. Fry 1 egg per serving: Crack the eggs right into the pan with  
a little more butter if necessary, one at a time, and cook on one 
side until the white is no longer runny. Carefully ﬂip and cook  
for 1 or 2 minutes on the other side, depending on how done you 
want the yolk.
5. Assemble the dish by spooning the broccoli rice into bowls 
and topping with the ground beef, mushrooms, carrots, and  
egg. Drizzle the rice vinegar over each bowl and garnish with 
sesame seeds.
 VARIATION 1  BIBIMBAP WITH STEAK:  Instead of ground beef, 
use 1 pound thinly sliced steak. Cook until browned and follow  
the remaining recipe steps.
 VARIATION 2  BIBIMBAP WITH SPINACH:  Add a couple of 
handfuls of fresh spinach to the skillet after cooking the carrots. 
Remove when wilted, after 2 to 3 minutes.BROCCOLI BIBIMBAP
Bibimbap is a Korean rice dish that means “mixed rice,” so while this 
isn’t exactly an authentic re-creation, I did my best to capture the 
ﬂavors in a way that works with the Paleo diet. Broccoli noodles are pulsed in 
a food processor until they become the consistency of rice and then topped 
with all the goodness that traditional bibimbap has to offer: garlic, succulent 
meat, and a fried egg. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
120PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF V 30
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ medium yellow onion, diced
1 garlic clove, minced
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets, 
stem spiralized
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
3 to 4 cups curly kale, chopped
Juice of 2 lemons
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
PER SERVING Calories 123  
Fat 7g, Protein 4g, Sodium 342mg,  
Total Carbs 12g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and  
sauté the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, until translucent. 
Add the broccoli ﬂorets and spiralized stems and stir to combine. 
Season with salt and pepper.
2. Add the kale to the pan and stir until it begins to wilt, about 
3 minutes. Add the lemon juice, crushed red pepper, and a bit 
more salt and pepper if necessary. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes more, 
or until the kale is wilted and tender. Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  BROCCOLI PASTA WITH LEMON AND MASSAGED 
KALE:  While the broccoli is cooking, pour an additional table -
spoon of olive oil over the raw kale. Use your hands to massage 
the leaves for about 5 minutes, or until the kale turns a brighter 
shade of green and isn’t as rough to the touch. Season with salt 
and pepper and squeeze lemon juice over the kale leaves. Mix  
to combine, and serve as a base for the sautéed broccoli.
 VARIATION 2  BROCCOLI PASTA WITH CHICKEN, LEMON, 
AND KALE:  Add about 1 pound diced boneless chicken thighs or 
breasts to the skillet after you sauté the onions and garlic. Cook 
until browned on all sides, add the broccoli ﬂorets and spiralized 
stems, and continue with the recipe as written, until the chicken  
is cooked through (the chicken should take 6 to 8 minutes total 
to cook).BROCCOLI PASTA WITH LEMON AND KALE
I’ve always made kale sautéed with some garlic and a little bit of lemon, 
but I really love the addition of broccoli noodles and ﬂorets—it gives  
it a nice crunch and makes it feel like more of a main course than a side dish. 
You can easily add chicken, ﬁsh, or any other protein of your choice to make  
a heartier meal. Either way, broccoli noodles with lemon and kale is a great 
recipe to make sure you get your greens in (and enjoy them)! SERVES 4BRO CC OLI
121PREP TIME:  15 minutes,  
plus overnight to chill
COOK TIME:  2 hours
DF NF
1 pound pork tenderloin
1 tablespoon salt
2 bunches green onions,  
(1½ chopped for the broth,  
½ sliced for garnish)
1 (2-inch) piece peeled fresh 
ginger, sliced (about  
2 tablespoons)
4 garlic cloves, crushed
7 cups water
3 eggs, for topping
Jalapeño peppers, for topping
Bean sprouts, for topping
Fresh cilantro, for topping 
5 tablespoons coconut aminos
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1½ tablespoons sesame oil
2 or 3 broccoli stems, 
spiralized (reserve ﬂorets for 
another recipe)
PER SERVING Calories 171  
Fat 6g, Protein 22g, Sodium 1,230mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 2g1. Season the pork with a generous sprinkling of salt and refriger -
ate overnight.
2. Place the pork in a large saucepan. Add the 1 1⁄2 bunches green 
onions to the pot with the ginger, garlic, and water. Bring to a boil, 
turn the heat down to a simmer, and cook for at least 2 hours (or 
up to 4 hours).
3. While the broth is simmering, prepare your toppings. Hard-boil 
the eggs (place in a pot of boiling water and cook for 10 minutes; 
cool under running water, peel, and halve), slice the jalapeños, and 
chop the bean sprouts and cilantro.
4. Add the coconut aminos, rice vinegar, and sesame oil to the 
broth. Continue to simmer and add the broccoli noodles about 
5 minutes before you’re ready to serve.
5. Remove the pork, slice it, and then transfer it back to the 
saucepan. Serve the ramen topped with 1⁄2 hard-boiled egg per 
bowl, sliced jalapeño, and chopped bean sprouts and cilantro.
 VARIATION 1  BROCCOLI NOODLE AND FLORET RAMEN:   
For an extra boost of veggies, add the ﬂorets from the broccoli 
stem to the broth when you add the coconut aminos, sesame oil, 
and rice vinegar.
 VARIATION 2  VEGETARIAN BROCCOLI RAMEN BOWL:  Instead 
of making your own broth, omit the pork and water and use 7 cups 
vegetable broth. This will save you the overnight marinade step as 
well, so it’s a lot quicker. Follow the rest of the recipe as written, 
adding broccoli ﬂorets and 10 ounces sliced mushrooms to the pot 
10 to 15 minutes before serving.BROCCOLI RAMEN BOWL
This ramen is one of my all-time favorite recipes—I included something 
similar in my ﬁrst book and called for zucchini noodles, but I really love 
the ﬂavor and texture of the broccoli noodles. It takes a little longer to make 
than most of the recipes in this book, but I think the ﬂavorful broth, tender 
pork, and variety of toppings are worth the effort. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
122PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
NF 30
1 tablespoon grass-fed butter
½ medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 pound steak, sliced thin
1 head broccoli, cut into ﬂorets, 
stem spiralized
2 tablespoons coconut aminos
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
2 tablespoons sesame seeds, 
for garnish
2 or 3 green onions, ﬁnely 
chopped, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 347  
Fat 15g, Protein 45g, Sodium 397mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet or wok over medium heat, melt the butter.  
Add the onion and garlic and sauté for about 5 minutes, until 
translucent, before adding the sesame oil and steak. Cook for 
another 5 to 6 minutes, or until the meat begins to brown on 
all sides.
2. Chop the broccoli ﬂorets into bite-size pieces and add them  
to the skillet. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes and then add the broccoli 
noodles. Stir to combine and add the coconut aminos and crushed 
red pepper. 
3. Remove from the heat and serve garnished with sesame seeds 
and green onions.
 VARIATION 1  BEEF AND BROCCOLI NOODLES WITH MUSH -
ROOMS:  Add about 8 ounces sliced mushrooms to the skillet with 
the broccoli ﬂorets in step 2. 
 VARIATION 2  BEEF AND BROCCOLI NOODLES WITH WATER 
CHESTNUTS:  Add a small can of drained water chestnuts to the 
skillet a few minutes before serving.BEEF and BROCCOLI NOODLES
Beef and broccoli is one of my favorite dishes to order at a Chinese 
place, but it’s full of cornstarch, soy sauce, and sugar. This beef and 
broccoli is a simple Paleo stir-fry that incorporates broccoli noodles as well  
as ﬂorets. It’s easy to make and is sure to satisfy your Chinese takeout craving 
without breaking your healthy diet—and you don’t even have to pick up the 
phone! SERVES 4BRO CC OLI
123PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
4 tablespoons grass-fed butter,  
divided
1 large yellow onion, sliced thin
2 garlic cloves, minced
1½ pounds beef sirloin 
steak, sliced
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup beef broth
½ cup canned coconut milk
2 large broccoli stems, 
spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 525  
Fat 30g, Protein 55g, Sodium 696mg,  
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon of butter. 
Sauté the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, until translucent. 
Add another tablespoon of butter and the steak. Cook until the 
meat is browned on all sides, about 5 minutes. Season with salt 
and pepper.
2. Add the broth and coconut milk to the skillet and stir well to 
combine. Bring to a simmer and cook on low for about 10 minutes, 
or until the liquid has thickened a bit.
3. While the beef is simmering, bring a small saucepan of water 
to a boil. Add the broccoli noodles and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until tender. Drain and toss with the remaining 2 tablespoons of 
butter. 
4. Transfer the noodles to plates, top with the beef and sauce, 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  BEEF STROGANOFF WITH MUSHROOMS:   
After you cook the onions and garlic, add about 10 ounces sliced 
mushrooms to the skillet. Cook for 5 to 7 minutes before adding 
the steak.
 VARIATION 2  ONE-POT BEEF STROGANOFF WITH ZUCCHINI 
NOODLES:  Instead of broccoli noodles, serve this over zucchini 
noodles. Cook them for 2 to 3 minutes, or until the noodles start to 
become fork-tender, right in the skillet with the beef.BEEF STROGANOFF
Beef stroganoff is one of those classic recipes that everyone has  
probably had before, but maybe hasn’t made for themselves. This Paleo 
version is just as delicious and comforting as the original. Instead of egg 
noodles, we use a spiralized broccoli stem to sneak some vegetables into an 
otherwise meat- and starch-heavy dish. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
124PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  50 minutes, plus 
10 minutes to rest
DF NF
1 pound pork loin
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 tablespoon ground paprika
½ tablespoon garlic powder
½ tablespoon onion powder
½ tablespoon ground cumin
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons ghee
1 cup chicken broth
2 large broccoli stems, 
spiralized
2 or 3 carrots, sliced thin
¼ red onion, sliced thin
½ cup Paleo Mayo (page 154)
¼ cup red wine vinegar
PER SERVING Calories 519  
Fat 34g, Protein 35g, Sodium 830mg,  
Total Carbs 19g, Fiber 4g1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
2. Season the pork with the chili powder, paprika, garlic powder, 
onion powder, cumin, salt, and pepper. In an ovenproof skillet 
over high heat, heat the ghee and sear each side of the pork, 
about 5 minutes total, and then pour in the chicken broth and 
stir well to deglaze the skillet, scraping up the browned bits from 
the bottom.
3. Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook for 40 to 45 minutes, 
or until the internal temperature of the meat is 145°F. Baste the 
pork once or twice with the pan juices, using a spoon to pour the 
juices over the pork.
4. While the pork is cooking, in a large bowl, toss to combine the 
broccoli noodles, carrots, and onion with the mayonnaise and red 
wine vinegar. Season with salt and pepper, cover, and refrigerate 
until the pork is done.
5. Allow the pork to rest for about 10 minutes, and then dice it 
and add it to the slaw. Toss to combine and serve immediately.BROCCOLI NOODLE SLAW with ROASTED PORK
Pork and slaw are a perfect pairing, and this recipe utilizes broccoli 
noodles for a little twist. My mom always makes a broccoli slaw for 
parties, and I included that recipe in my ﬁrst book, but this one skips the 
ﬂorets and uses the spiralized stems, as well as some julienned carrots  
and red onion. I like using a dry rub on pork because homemade barbecue 
sauce can take a long time to make, and it can be hard to ﬁnd a store-  
bought sauce without sugar. SERVES 4BRO CC OLI
125BRO CC OLI
125 VARIATION 1  BROCCOLI NOODLE SLAW WITH PORK AND  
RAISINS:  Add 1 cup of golden raisins to the slaw.
 VARIATION 2  BROCCOLI NOODLE SLAW WITH SPIRALIZED 
APPLES AND PORK:  Add 1 or 2 spiralized apples to the slaw. You 
may need to add another tablespoon each of Paleo Mayo and red 
wine vinegar.8
TURNIPS127I  think turnips are a generally overlooked vegetable, but 
they have a lot to oﬀer—they’re really easy to spiralize, 
and they add a satisfying starchiness that makes them a 
great Paleo alternative to white potatoes. For a long time, I’d 
always reach for sweet potatoes instead of white potatoes, 
but I’ve found that turnips really do a great job imitating the 
carb-y comfort that makes potatoes such a staple in most 
diets. They’re mild in ﬂavor, so they lend themselves well to 
lots of diﬀerent seasonings and preparation styles. This chap -
ter includes oven-roasting, pan-frying, and even just lightly 
simmering.
Just a few notes about spiralizing turnips: Make sure you peel 
the turnips before making noodles with them—the peel is a lit -
tle rough, so getting rid of that needs to be your ﬁrst step. After 
that, turnip noodles cook quickly—just 5 to 6 minutes to soften 
the otherwise hard texture. Choose a small, round turnip if 
possible, to yield lots of long spiral noodles instead of short 
ones. Turnip noodles are also great when riced, so feel free to 
experiment!THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
128PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
DF NF 30
2 or 3 small round turnips, 
peeled and spiralized
4 or 5 slices bacon, diced
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 171  
Fat 12g, Protein 9g, Sodium 842mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 2g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F. 
2. On a large sheet pan, spread the turnip noodles and raw diced 
bacon in an even layer. Drizzle the olive oil over the noodles and 
season with salt and pepper.
3. Roast for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the bacon is crispy, 
and serve.
 VARIATION 1  PANCETTA-ROASTED TURNIP NOODLES  
WITH ROSEMARY:  Substitute pancetta for bacon and add  
2 or 3 chopped fresh rosemary sprigs to the pan.
 VARIATION 2  BACON-ROASTED TURNIP NOODLES WITH 
CHICKEN:  Add about 1 pound diced cooked chicken to 
the cooked noodles. Toss everything to combine and serve 
immediately.BACON-ROASTED TURNIP NOODLES
These bacon-roasted turnip noodles are so good and so easy to  
make—all you do is assemble the ingredients on a sheet pan and roast 
for about 15 minutes. They’re a great side dish on their own, but you can easily 
transform this recipe into a salad by adding your favorite dressing, or add 
some chicken or a fried egg to turn it into a main course. I love the earthy 
ﬂavor of turnips and bacon together, so this is one of my favorites. SERVES 4TU RN IPS
129PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
30
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter
½ yellow onion, very finely  
chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1 pound pork sausage, ground
2 tablespoons 
arrowroot powder
½ to ¾ cup almond or 
coconut milk
¼ teaspoon crushed red pepper
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 small round turnips, peeled 
and spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 591  
Fat 52g, Protein 24g, Sodium 1,250mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 2g1. In a medium skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté 
the onion and garlic for about 5 minutes, or until the onion 
becomes translucent. Add the sausage and break it up with a 
spoon until crumbled and starting to brown, about 5 minutes.
2. Sprinkle the arrowroot powder over the sausage and mix well 
to combine. Add some of the almond milk, stir, and add more if 
necessary—the consistency should be on the thick side.
3. Add the crushed red pepper, salt, and black pepper. Give it a 
stir and add the turnip noodles. Cook for 3 to 5 minutes, or until 
the noodles are fork-tender. Serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  ONE-POT SAUSAGE AND GRAVY OVER TURNIP 
NOODLES WITH MUSHROOMS:  Add 10 ounces sliced mush -
rooms before you cook the sausage. You might need a little extra 
almond milk to get the right consistency. Follow the rest of the 
recipe as written.
 VARIATION 2  ONE-POT SAUSAGE AND GRAVY OVER TURNIP 
NOODLES WITH SPINACH:  Add 2 or 3 handfuls of fresh spinach 
a few minutes before serving.ONE-POT SAUSAGE and GRAVY over TURNIP NOODLES
My mom serves her sausage and gravy over cauliﬂower rice, but it’s 
excellent on top of sautéed turnip noodles, too. You can roast them for 
a little extra ﬂavor, but I like sautéing them because they cook in the gravy, 
making this an easy one-pot recipe. Growing up in Virginia meant always 
having access to the very best sausage and gravy, so it’s nice to have a Paleo 
alternative to enjoy, even if I have to skip the biscuits. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
130PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
NF 30
3 tablespoons ghee
2 or 3 small round turnips, 
peeled, spiralized, and trimmed
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 110  
Fat 10g, Protein <1g, Sodium 351mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat the ghee. Working 
in batches, add the turnip fries and sauté for 5 to 7 minutes, or 
until they start to brown. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Transfer the fries from the skillet to a paper towel–lined plate, 
repeat with the remaining noodles, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  TRUFFLE OIL TURNIP CURLY FRIES:  If you’re feel -
ing a little indulgent, drizzle a very small amount (2 teaspoons or 
less) of truﬄe oil over the cooked turnip fries. Finish with a garnish 
of chopped parsley.
 VARIATION 2  CAJUN TURNIP CURLY FRIES:  Immediately after 
cooking, season the fries with 1 tablespoon Cajun seasoning (make 
it yourself if you can’t ﬁnd it: salt, garlic powder, ground paprika, 
freshly ground black pepper, onion powder, ground cayenne pep -
per, dried oregano, dried thyme, and crushed red pepper ﬂakes).TURNIP CURLY FRIES
I like to bake my veggie curly fries because it’s a little easier, but some -
times I’m really in the mood for actual fried fries. For this recipe, turnip 
noodles are trimmed into curly fry–size pieces and then fried in a shallow pan 
with ghee. Ghee is clariﬁed butter with a high smoke point, so it’s ideal for 
frying veggies. Plus, it’s absolutely delicious and adds a great nutty quality to 
the dish. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
132PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  35 minutes, plus 
30 minutes to cool 
NF 
2 red bell peppers
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 (14.5-ounce) can 
coconut milk
4 tablespoons grass-fed 
butter, divided
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon crushed 
red pepper
1½ pounds boneless chicken 
breasts, sliced
2 small round turnips, peeled 
and spiralized
¼ cup chopped fresh basil
PER SERVING Calories 761  
Fat 56g, Protein 53g, Sodium 576mg,  
Total Carbs 15g, Fiber 4g1. Preheat the broiler to high. 
2. On a small broiler pan, lightly coat the peppers in a little bit of 
the olive oil. Once the broiler is ready, grill the peppers under the 
broiler until the skin is blackened, about 10 minutes. Put them in a 
plastic bag to sweat for 30 to 45 minutes.
3. Take the peppers out of the bag, peel the skin oﬀ, and remove 
the stem, ribs, and seeds.
4. In a large skillet over medium-high heat, sauté the garlic and 
roasted red peppers in the remaining olive oil for about 10 min -
utes, stirring frequently.
5. Carefully transfer the pepper mixture to a blender and purée. 
Return to the skillet over medium heat, add the coconut milk and 
3 tablespoons of butter, and stir until just combined. Season with 
salt and pepper and add the crushed red pepper. Remove the 
sauce from the skillet and set aside.
6. In the same skillet over medium heat, cook the chicken in 
the last tablespoon of butter until cooked through, 8 to 10 min -
utes. Remove the chicken and add the turnip noodles to the pan. 
Cook the noodles for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the noodles start to 
become fork-tender, and then return the chicken to the pan. 
7. Pour the sauce over everything, and bring to a simmer.  
Remove from the heat, garnish with the chopped basil, and  
serve immediately.TURNIP PASTA with RED BELL PEPPER SAUCE 
and CHICKEN
This creamy roasted red bell pepper sauce is really tasty, and while it 
takes a bit longer to make than most of the other recipes you’ll ﬁnd  
in this book, I think it’s worth every minute. Apart from a blender and a small 
broiler pan, all you really need is one skillet. Despite the number of steps,  
I always appreciate a recipe that uses a minimum amount of dishware!  
SERVES 4TU RN IPS
133TU RN IPS
133 VARIATION 1  ZUCCHINI NOODLES WITH RED BELL PEPPER 
SAUCE AND CHICKEN:  Instead of turnip noodles, use zucchini 
noodles for this recipe (any blade will be great) and follow the 
recipe as written.
 VARIATION 2  TURNIP NOODLES WITH RED BELL PEPPER 
SAUCE AND SHRIMP:  Use 1 1⁄2 pounds shrimp instead of chicken 
breast—just cook for 2 to 3 minutes per side, or until shrimp is pink 
and opaque.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
134PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  3 hours, 15 minutes
DF NF 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 small round turnips, peeled 
and spiralized
1 large yellow onion, diced
2 or 3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 medium red bell 
pepper, chopped
2 pounds ground beef
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes (no sugar added)
1½ teaspoons crushed 
red pepper
1 tablespoon chili powder
½ teaspoon dried oregano
¾ teaspoon dry mustard
¾ teaspoon ground coriander
½ teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground paprika
About 2 cups chicken broth
1½ teaspoons ground 
cayenne pepper (more or 
less depending on your heat 
preference)
½ cup apple cider vinegar
2 or 3 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped1. In a large cast iron pot or Dutch oven over medium heat, add 
the olive oil and sauté the turnip noodles for about 5 minutes, or 
until they’ve softened a bit. Remove the noodles from the pot and 
set aside.
2. Sauté the onion, garlic, and bell peppers until tender, about 
5 minutes. Add the ground beef and allow it to brown. Stir with a 
wooden spoon and break up the larger pieces.
3. After the beef is mostly browned, about 5 minutes, add the 
canned tomatoes. Give it a good stir and add the crushed red  
pepper, chili powder, oregano, dry mustard, coriander, allspice, 
cumin, and paprika.
4. Bring the chili to a low boil, and then reduce the heat to low 
and simmer for 2 to 3 hours. Periodically add chicken broth and 
stir when it starts getting thick.
5. About 20 minutes before serving, add the cayenne pep -
per and apple cider vinegar. To serve, ﬁll bowls with the turnip 
noodles, spoon the chili over them, and garnish with the sliced 
green onions.CHILI with TURNIP NOODLES
Lately I’ve been serving veggie noodles with my chilis and stews—it’s a 
great way to use up vegetables that need to be cooked before they go 
bad, and spiralizing them always makes me feel like I’m having a pasta dish. 
This technique for this recipe is similar to my Fettuccini Bolognese (page 30) 
with zucchini noodles, but I love adding the zesty chili spices and serving it 
with a generous serving of turnip noodles. SERVES 6TU RN IPS
135TU RN IPS
135 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN CHILI WITH TURNIP NOODLES:  Use 
ground chicken instead of beef for a chicken chili.
 VARIATION 2  BEEF AND PORK CHILI WITH TURNIP NOODLES:   
Add more ﬂavor to this dish by using half ground beef and half 
ground pork. You can also switch the chicken broth to beef broth. 
Make this chili ahead of time by cooking it in a slow cooker for 
8 hours on low. For improved ﬂavor, sauté the vegetables and 
brown the meat ahead of time and then add the rest of the 
ingredients.PER SERVING Calories 438, Fat 15g, 
Protein 52g, Sodium 665mg,  
Total Carbs 21g, Fiber 7g9
CABBAGE137I love cabbage because it lends itself well to a ton of diﬀer -
ent ﬂavors, and it’s tender enough to eat raw but stands up 
to cooking as well. It also lasts forever in the fridge, so you 
can leave it whole (I like picking the leaves oﬀ a few at a time 
and using them as Paleo wraps for turkey and vegetables at 
lunchtime), or you can spiralize it and use it immediately or 
store for a few more days.
Note: When spiralizing, remove the outside layers until you 
have a tight ball of leaves that aren’t sticking out—the outside 
layers won’t cooperate with the spiralizer, so it’s best to just 
remove them and use them for something else.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
138PREP TIME:  20 minutes, plus 
5 days to ferment
DF NF R
1 large napa cabbage, 
spiralized
¼ cup kosher salt
2 or 3 garlic cloves, minced
1 (2-inch) piece peeled  
fresh ginger, sliced  
(about 2 tablespoons)
¼ cup fish sauce
1 to 4 tablespoons gochugaru—  
Korean red pepper powder 
(depending on your heat 
preference)
2 or 3 carrots, sliced
1 daikon radish, sliced thin
PER SERVING Calories 109  
Fat 2g, Protein 4g, Sodium 1,486mg,  
Total Carbs 20g, Fiber 4g1. In a large bowl, sprinkle the salt over the cabbage. Massage 
the cabbage noodles with your hands for a few minutes, until they 
start to wilt slightly. Add enough water to the bowl to cover the 
cabbage, and cover with a plate weighed down with a couple of 
cans—you want to put some pressure on the cabbage. Let it rest 
like that for 1 to 2 hours.
2. Rinse the cabbage well and drain it in a colander for 10 to 
15 minutes. Squeeze the cabbage to remove any leftover water, 
return the cabbage to the bowl and add the garlic, ginger, ﬁsh 
sauce, and gochugaru. Add the carrots and daikon and mix thor -
oughly. Pack the kimchi into clean, dry canning jars. Press down 
until the brine covers the cabbage, leaving about 1 inch of space  
at the top of the jar. 
3. Cover loosely and store on your counter for 1 to 5 days, check -
ing daily for ﬂavor preference. The mixture may bubble over—
keeping the jars in a pie plate or other rimmed vessel will contain 
any spillover during the fermentation process. When it’s “ripe” 
enough for your liking, transfer to the refrigerator.
 VARIATION 1  QUICK-PICKLED KIMCHI:  Boil 5 cups water with 
1⁄2 cup kosher salt. Let it cool slightly. In a large bowl, pour the 
brine over the cabbage noodles. Soak the cabbage for about 
15 minutes, stirring once halfway through. Rinse and drain the cab -
bage as directed in the original recipe. Combine the garlic, ginger, 
ﬁsh sauce, and gochugaru and mix with the carrots, daikon, and 
drained cabbage. Pack into jars and refrigerate immediately. Enjoy 
within 5 to 10 days.
 VARIATION 2  KIMCHI WITH CUCUMBERS:  Add 1 sliced or spiral -
ized cucumber to either of the above recipes.KIMCHI CABBAGE NOODLES
Kimchi is a staple in Korean kitchens, and while it can seem a bit intimi -
dating to make yourself, it’s really quite easy. Because it’s a fermented 
product, you do have to let it sit at room temperature for a few days, so if 
that’s not your thing, I’ve included a quick pickled variation. I love kimchi—  
it offers a nice spicy bite to just about everything, although I’ve been known 
to eat it straight out of the jar, too. SERVES 6CABB AGE
139PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
NF
3 tablespoons grass-fed butter
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 carrots, diced
2 celery stalks, diced
1 garlic clove, minced 
1 large cabbage, spiralized
1 (14-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes
4 to 5 cups beef broth
1 dried bay leaf
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
Fresh parsley sprigs, 
for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 121  
Fat 7g, Protein 6g, Sodium 706mg,  
Total Carbs 9g, Fiber 3g1. In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter. Sauté 
the onion for about 5 minutes, until translucent. Add the carrots 
and celery and cook for another 4 to 5 minutes, or until the 
veggies become fork-tender. Add the garlic and cabbage noodles. 
Stir to combine and continue to cook over medium heat.
2. Add the can of tomatoes (and any liquid) to the pot and stir. 
Pour the beef broth in and bring to a simmer. Add the bay leaf  
and reduce the heat to low, cooking for another 10 to 15 minutes. 
3. Season with salt and pepper and serve with a sprinkle of  
fresh parsley.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN AND CABBAGE SOUP:  Once the broth is 
simmering, add about 1 pound boneless, skinless chicken thighs or 
breasts to the pot and poach until cooked through, about 10 min -
utes. Remove the chicken from the broth, shred it, and return it to 
the saucepan. If you have some leftover cooked chicken on hand, 
just stir it into the soup a few minutes before serving and simmer 
until heated through.
 VARIATION 2  CABBAGE AND ZUCCHINI NOODLE SOUP:  Add 
more veggies to this soup (and get rid of any leftover zoodles you 
may have in your fridge) by adding 1 or 2 spiralized zucchini to the 
pot 2 to 3 minutes before you’re ready to serve.CABBAGE SOUP
Cabbage soup gets a bad rep for being bland and boring, but if it’s 
seasoned properly, it can be a delicious and comforting classic that’s 
both budget-friendly and ﬁlling. I like to make mine with beef broth for an 
even richer ﬂavor, but you could easily swap that out for chicken or veggie, 
depending on your preferences and/or what you have on hand. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
140PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF R 30
Juice of 2 limes
3 tablespoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
1 teaspoon chili garlic oil
1 tablespoon honey (optional)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 large purple cabbage (also 
referred to as red cabbage), 
spiralized
1 or 2 green onions, 
ﬁnely chopped
2 tablespoons sesame seeds
PER SERVING Calories 109  
Fat 9g, Protein 1g, Sodium 303mg,  
Total Carbs 6g, Fiber 1g1. In a small bowl, mix to combine the lime juice, sesame oil,  
coconut aminos, chili garlic oil, and honey (if using). Season with 
salt and pepper.
2. In a large bowl, toss to combine the cabbage noodles and the 
dressing. Season with a little more salt and pepper if necessary. 
3. Serve immediately with green onions and a sprinkle of  
sesame seeds.
 VARIATION 1  ASIAN PURPLE CABBAGE NOODLE SLAW WITH 
AVOCADO:  Serve this slaw topped with 1⁄2 sliced avocado.
 VARIATION 2  CREAMY PURPLE CABBAGE NOODLE ASIAN 
SLAW:  Make this dressing creamy by adding 1 to 2 tablespoons 
tahini. Mix well to combine.ASIAN PURPLE CABBAGE NOODLE SLAW
This Asian-inspired cabbage noodle slaw is delicious on its own  
or paired with shrimp or beef. I love purple cabbage because it has  
such a nice crunch and a heartier texture than other cabbages. The spicy 
sesame-lime dressing is easy to customize if you don’t like spicy food,  
and it’s super good on other salads and slaws, or even chicken. SERVES 6THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
142PREP TIME:  10 minutes,  
plus 15 minutes to chill 
DF NF R 30
1 cup Paleo Mayo (page 154)
2 to 3 tablespoons agave
2 tablespoons apple 
cider vinegar
2 teaspoons celery seed
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 small to medium cabbage, 
spiralized
PER SERVING Calories 194  
Fat 13g, Protein <1g, Sodium 478mg,  
Total Carbs 20g, Fiber <1g1. In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, agave, apple 
cider vinegar, and celery seed. Stir well and season with salt 
and pepper.
2. In a large bowl, spoon the dressing over the cabbage noodles 
and toss to combine.
3. Refrigerate for at least 15 to 20 minutes before serving.
 VARIATION 1  PALEO CABBAGE SLAW WITH SLOW-COOKED 
PULLED PORK:  Make this side dish into a main course by add -
ing about 1 pound pulled pork. It’s easy to make pulled pork in 
your slow cooker: Combine pork butt, 1 to 2 cups of your favorite 
(sugar-free) barbecue sauce, and some salt and pepper. Cook on 
low for 8 hours. Plan ahead by making the pork the night before  
so it’s ready when you are.
 VARIATION 2  PALEO CARROT SLAW:  Instead of cabbage, make 
this slaw with about 1 pound spiralized carrots.PALEO CABBAGE SLAW
My mom makes this cabbage slaw all the time. It’s delicious, but it’s 
always a big pain to make because chopping cabbage can make a 
huge mess. That’s one convenient thing about having a spiralizer—even if you 
aren’t making a special spiralized recipe, you can easily use it to slice and 
chop vegetables, especially big ones like cabbage or onions. This recipe is 
exactly the way Mom makes it, only it’s made quicker by spiralizing the cab -
bage into noodles instead of chopping everything up by hand. SERVES 6CABB AGE
143PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30 
½ tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ red onion, sliced thin
1 garlic clove, minced
1 pound ﬂank steak, sliced thin
1 small to medium cabbage, 
spiralized (napa cabbage 
would be good for this)
1 to 2 teaspoons chili garlic oil 
or chili garlic sauce
1½ tablespoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon coconut aminos
½ large cucumber, diced,  
for garnish
2 or 3 green onions, chopped, 
for garnish
2 to 3 tablespoons chopped 
fresh cilantro, for garnish
PER SERVING Calories 112  
Fat 9g, Protein 2g, Sodium 163mg,  
Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the red onion for about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and the steak 
and cook the steak pieces for about 3 minutes per side.
2. Add the cabbage to the skillet and sauté for 3 to 4 minutes, or 
until the cabbage noodles are beginning to wilt. Lower the heat to 
medium-low and add the chili garlic oil, sesame oil, and coconut 
aminos. Stir until combined and remove from the heat.
3. Spoon into bowls, garnish with the cucumber, green onions, 
and cilantro, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  SPICY KOREAN BEEF NOODLES WITH SPINACH:  
Add 2 cups spinach to the skillet with the cabbage noodles.
 VARIATION 2  VEGETARIAN SPICY KOREAN NOODLES:  Skip  
the beef and serve these bowls topped with a fried egg. To fry 
eggs, crack them right into the skillet you used for the cabbage 
noodles, adding a little grass-fed butter if necessary, and cook on 
one side until the white is no longer runny. Carefully ﬂip and cook 
for 1 or 2 minutes on the other side, depending on how done you 
want the yolk.SPICY KOREAN BEEF NOODLES
I love cabbage noodles because they cook quickly and pair well with 
Asian ﬂavors. These spicy Korean beef noodle bowls are one of my 
favorite things to make when I’m craving Asian food but don’t want to blow 
my diet (or budget) with takeout. Cabbage lasts such a long time in the 
fridge, so I always try to have one on hand, along with chili garlic sauce and 
sesame oil. SERVES 410
BELL  
PEPPERS145Bell pepper is another vegetable that’s delicious both raw 
and cooked. I love spiralizing them and incorporating 
them in dishes with a wide variety of ﬂavors and preparation 
styles. They might seem a little tricky to spiralize since they’re 
hollow, but if you just cut the very top oﬀ, you can attach 
the sliced side to the handle and spiralize ﬁrst, then rinse to 
remove any seeds that are left over.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
146PREP TIME:  10 minutes 
DF NF 30 
2 (6-ounce) cans tuna, drained
½ cup sliced black olives
¼ cup balsamic vinaigrette 
(see page 47)
1 green bell pepper, spiralized
1 yellow bell pepper, spiralized
1 red bell pepper, spiralized
½ cup cherry tomatoes, halved
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 270  
Fat 15g, Protein 24g, Sodium 603mg,  
Total Carbs 10g, Fiber 2gIn a large bowl, mix to combine the tuna and olives with the 
balsamic vinaigrette. Add the bell pepper noodles and cherry 
tomatoes and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper and 
serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  TRI-COLOR BELL PEPPER ANTIPASTO SALAD 
WITH CUCUMBERS:  Instead of olives, add 1 spiralized cucumber 
to the salad with the bell pepper noodles.
 VARIATION 2  TRI-COLOR BELL PEPPER ANTIPASTO SALAD 
WITH LEMON VINAIGRETTE:  Follow the original recipe as 
written, but use lemon juice instead of balsamic vinegar in the 
dressing.TRI-COLOR BELL PEPPER ANTIPASTO SALAD  
with OLIVES and TUNA
I love a vinaigrette-based tuna salad with olives. The red, yellow, and 
green bell pepper noodles are colorful and ﬂavorful, and also a little bit 
fancy, so you can make it for guests and feel good about serving a healthy, 
interesting meal that takes only a few minutes to throw together. You could 
easily marinate the tuna ahead of time and toss it with the peppers and 
tomatoes right before serving. SERVES 4BELL  PEPPER S
147PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
NF 
3 tablespoons grass-fed 
butter, divided
1 medium yellow onion, sliced
2 garlic cloves
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 green peppers, spiralized
1 ½ pounds steak, sliced thin
4 to 6 large romaine or butter 
lettuce leaves
1 to 2 tablespoons Paleo Mayo 
(page 154)
PER SERVING Calories 444  
Fat 17g, Protein 63g, Sodium 464mg,  
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 2g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, melt 1 tablespoon of butter. 
Sauté the onion and garlic together, stirring regularly, and cook for 
longer than usual—about 10 to 15 minutes. Season with salt and 
pepper, remove from the skillet, and set aside.
2. Add the green pepper noodles and sauté for 8 to 10 minutes, 
or until the noodles start to become fork-tender. Season with salt 
and pepper, remove from the skillet, and set aside with the onions.
3. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter and the steak to the 
skillet and season with salt and pepper. Cook over medium heat 
until the meat browns. Return the onions and green peppers to 
the skillet and stir over medium-high heat for 2 to 3 minutes.
4. To assemble the lettuce wraps, place lettuce leaves on a plate 
and add some of the steak and veggie mixture to each. Add a 
dollop of mayonnaise and enjoy immediately.
 VARIATION 1  PHILLY “NO CHEESE” STEAK LETTUCE WRAPS 
WITH MUSHROOMS:  Add about 10 ounces sliced mushrooms to 
this recipe—sauté separately in a little butter for 6 to 7 minutes, 
or until browned and beginning to crisp around the edges, before 
following the remaining recipe steps as written.
 VARIATION 2  PHILLY “NO CHEESE” STEAK OMELET:  Instead of 
making lettuce wraps with the steak, green pepper, and onion mix -
ture, make it into an omelet—after removing all the sautéed items 
from the skillet, add 2 or 3 whisked eggs to the skillet along with 
a little grass-fed butter, if necessary. Let the eggs spread out and 
cook on one side, then ﬂip gently before adding all the ﬁlling back 
to the pan. Fold the eggs over the ﬁlling and serve hot.PHILLY “NO CHEESE” STEAK LETTUCE WRAPS
This is a Paleo take on the classic Philly cheesesteak sandwich, except 
that we’re skipping the bread and there’s no cheese—just onions, green 
pepper noodles, and delicious sliced steak sautéed together in the delicious 
combination that made the sandwich so famous. The trick to getting all the 
vegetables done perfectly is to give each of them their own time in the pan 
and then stir it all together before serving. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
148PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
½ yellow onion, diced
2 or 3 garlic cloves, minced
1 green bell pepper, spiralized
1 red bell pepper, spiralized
1 orange bell pepper, spiralized
1 ½ pounds boneless, skinless 
chicken breast, diced
2 tablespoons Taco Seasoning 
(page 155)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 172  
Fat 10g, Protein 11g, Sodium 360mg,  
Total Carbs 11g, Fiber 3g1. In a large ovenproof skillet over medium heat, heat the olive 
oil and sauté the onion and garlic together. After about 5 minutes, 
add the bell pepper noodles. Stir everything together and cook 
over medium-high heat for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the noodles 
start to become fork-tender.
2. Add the diced chicken and taco seasoning and cook for 6 to 
8 minutes, until all sides are browned and the chicken is cooked 
through. Season with salt and pepper and serve hot.
 VARIATION 1  CHICKEN FAJITA SKILLET WITH AVOCADO:   
Top each serving with 1⁄2 diced avocado and a wedge of lime, for 
garnish.
 VARIATION 2  STEAK AND SHRIMP FAJITA SKILLET:  Instead  
of chicken, sauté 1⁄2 pound shrimp and 1 pound sliced steak in 
the skillet for 5 to 6 minutes, or until the steak is mostly cooked 
through. Follow the remaining recipe steps as written.CHICKEN FAJITA SKILLET
Is there anything better than a sizzling platter of fajitas? Chicken fajitas 
are always my go-to order whenever I’m out somewhere that serves 
Mexican food—it’s easy to customize it to be Paleo without abandoning the 
main components of the dish. I just ask for fajitas without tortillas, rice, beans, 
or cheese—sometimes they’ll even give you a little extra avocado to make up 
for it. I like to make this chicken fajita skillet and eat it on its own, since it’s full 
of veggies and meat, but you could also put it over a salad if you have any 
leftovers. SERVES 4THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
150PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
DF NF 30 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 pound ground beef
1 cup sliced green olives
2 green peppers, spiralized
2 hard-boiled eggs, diced
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
PER SERVING Calories 336  
Fat 17g, Protein 38g, Sodium 692mg,  
Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 3g1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat the olive oil and sauté 
the onion and garlic. After about 5 minutes, add the ground beef 
and stir everything together for about 3 minutes more.
2. Add the sliced olives and green pepper noodles. Sauté for 
another 3 to 4 minutes, or until the noodles start to become 
fork-tender, add the diced eggs and season with salt and pepper. 
Remove from the heat and serve immediately.
 VARIATION 1  EMPANADA GREEN PEPPER NOODLES WITH 
TURKEY:  Use ground turkey instead of beef if you want to lighten 
this recipe up a bit.
 VARIATION 2  EMPANADA GREEN PEPPER AND CARROT  
NOODLES:  Add 2 or 3 spiralized carrots (blade D) to the skillet 
with the green peppers.EMPANADA GREEN PEPPER NOODLES
My mom is from Argentina, so growing up we always had empanadas 
at home. They were my favorite, and the recipe has kind of become  
a tradition in our family. Now that we eat Paleo, we just skip the dumpling 
dough that traditionally holds it all together, but we still make the ﬁlling and 
eat it with eggs, salads, and even on its own, as in this recipe. SERVES 4BELL  PEPPER S
151PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
DF NF 
3 green bell peppers, spiralized
1 medium yellow onion, sliced
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
½ teaspoon garlic powder
2 pounds whole spicy 
Italian sausage
PER SERVING Calories 870  
Fat 72g, Protein 45g, Sodium 1,993mg,  
Total Carbs 10g, Fiber 2g1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. Add the bell pepper noodles and sliced onion to a large baking 
dish. Drizzle the olive oil over the vegetables and season with salt, 
pepper, and garlic powder. Add the sausages to the dish, arranging 
them evenly next to one another.
3. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until the sausages are cooked 
through, and serve.
 VARIATION 1  ITALIAN SAUSAGE WITH BELL PEPPER NOODLES 
AND MUSHROOMS:  Add about 10 ounces sliced mushrooms to 
the dish with the other vegetables.
 VARIATION 2  BAKED CHICKEN THIGHS WITH BELL PEPPER 
NOODLES:  Instead of Italian sausages, add 2 pounds chicken 
thighs to the baking dish. Season with salt and pepper and about 
1⁄4 teaspoon crushed red pepper.ITALIAN SAUSAGES with BELL PEPPER NOODLES
One of the easiest meals you can throw together is just sautéed onions 
and peppers with Italian sausages, and people always seem to love it. 
This recipe uses bell pepper noodles instead of chopped bell peppers, which 
saves a lot of prep time and makes eating a little more fun. I like making this 
dish because once you cut your onion and spiralize the peppers, all you have 
to do is add sausage and throw it in the oven. SERVES 4PANTRY 
BASICS153The Paleo pantry is somewhat of an enigma—what sauces 
and dips are Paleo, which aren’t? The short answer is that 
pretty much nothing you can buy premade in a bottle is Paleo, 
but that doesn’t mean you can’t easily make Paleo versions of 
your favorite sauces and snacks. This chapter covers just a few 
dipping sauces, seasonings, and snacks that usually contain 
sugar or some other non-Paleo additive.THE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
1541. In a food processor, add the egg, lemon 
juice, salt, dried mustard, and 1⁄4 cup of olive oil 
and quickly process to combine.
2. With the food processor still running, slowly 
drizzle in the remaining 1 cup of olive oil. When 
you have about 2 tablespoons of oil left, pour it 
in quickly.
3. Keep the mayo refrigerated until the expi -
ration date on the eggs you use—you may wish 
to make a note on the container to help you 
remember.
 VARIATION  PALEO RANCH DRESSING:  It’s 
easy to turn your mayo into delicious ranch 
dressing! Add 1⁄2 cup coconut milk, 1⁄2 table -
spoon dried chives, 1 teaspoon dried mustard, 
1⁄2 teaspoon dried dill, 1⁄2 teaspoon celery 
seed, 1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder, and 1⁄2 tea -
spoon onion powder to 1 cup of Paleo Mayo 
and season with salt and pepper. Mix well and 
store in the fridge in an airtight container.
PER SERVING (2 tablespoons) Calories 225, Fat 26g, 
Protein <1g, Sodium 123mg, Total Carbs <1g, Fiber 0gPALEO MAYO  
(and Paleo Ranch Dressing)
The following two recipes are in my 
ﬁrst book, but I wanted to include 
them here as well because I use 
them in a lot of these new recipes, 
too. Homemade mayo really is the 
only Paleo mayo out there, and I 
love whipping up a batch of Paleo 
Ranch Dressing every week for sal -
ads and quick veggie platter snacks. 
MAKES 1¼ CUPS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, plus 20 minutes to bring 
to room temperature 
DF NF 30
1 egg, at room temperature
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice, at 
room temperature
½ teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon dried mustard
1 ¼ cups extra-virgin olive oil, dividedPANTR Y BA SICS
155TACO SEASONING
I like making my own taco season -
ing because I recently realized that I 
usually have all the ingredients that 
go into it on hand, and if there’s one 
thing I hate, it’s buying something 
that I can make myself. If you have 
a reasonably stocked spice cabinet, 
I bet you can make it yourself, too—
and you don’t have to check labels 
for additives or sugar anymore!  
MAKES 3 TABLESPOONS
PREP TIME:  5 minutes 
DF NF V 30 
1½ teaspoons ground cumin
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ teaspoon ground paprika
¼ teaspoon garlic powder
¼ teaspoon onion powder
¼ to ½ teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes  
(depending on your heat preference)
¼ teaspoon dried oregano
In an airtight container with a lid, mix together 
the cumin, chili powder, salt, black pepper, 
paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, red 
pepper ﬂakes, and oregano. Store in the airtight 
container.
PER SERVING (1 tablespoon) Calories 17, Fat <1g,  
Protein <1g, Sodium 803mg, Total Carbs 3g, Fiber 1gGARLIC AIOLI
I don’t know about you, but my 
favorite thing to dip a French fry in 
isn’t ketchup, but mayonnaise—espe -
cially if that mayonnaise is seasoned 
with garlic or truffle oil (or anything, 
really). This garlic aioli is super easy 
to make and will be delicious with 
your spiralized sweet potato, turnip, 
or carrot fries. MAKES 1 CUP
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  40 minutes
DF NF
1 head garlic
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup Paleo Mayo (page 154)
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. To roast the garlic, cut oﬀ the top, drizzle 
with the olive oil, and wrap in foil. Bake for 
about 40 minutes.
3. Remove from the oven, cool slightly, and 
then pop the cloves out of the skin. In a food 
processor, process to combine the garlic cloves 
with the mayonnaise. Season with salt and pep -
per and store in fridge until ready to serve.
PER SERVING (2 tablespoons) Calories 135, Fat 12g, 
Protein <1g, Sodium 357mg, Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 0gTHE BIG 10 PALEO SPIRALIZER COOKBOOK
156SPIRALIZED QUICK-  
PICKLED ONIONS
I love pickled red onions on almost 
anything—and they’re so easy to 
make! I serve them with burgers  
and on top of salads and often just 
eat them on their own. Spiralizing an 
onion is so much quicker and eas -
ier than slicing or dicing it, so these 
quick-pickled onion noodles are a 
favorite. SERVES 6
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes, plus 2 hours to cool
DF NF 
½ cup apple cider or rice vinegar
½ cup water
¼ cup honey
1 tablespoon salt
1 tablespoon black peppercorns
1 tablespoon mustard seeds
1 red onion, spiralized
1. In a small pot over high heat, bring the 
vinegar, water, honey, salt, peppercorns, and 
mustard seeds to a boil. Remove from the heat.
2. Pack the onion noodles into jars and pour 
the brine over them. Allow to cool to room 
temperature before covering and refrigerating 
for at least 2 hours.
PER SERVING Calories 31, Fat 0g, Protein 0g, Sodium 
389mg, Total Carbs 8g, Fiber 0gENCHILADA SAUCE
Even more so than with taco sea -
soning, I like to make my own 
enchilada sauce because the canned 
ones, while convenient and deli -
cious, are often full of non-Paleo oils, 
sugars, and sometimes even ﬂour. 
You’ll need a batch of this sauce 
for my Chicken Enchilada Noodle 
Bake (page 97), but I also like it over 
chicken and veggies in a skillet  
when I’m in the mood for Mexican 
food but want to make something 
quick and healthy. MAKES 2 ½ CUPS
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 to 15 minutes
DF NF 30
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, grated
½ medium yellow onion, grated
1 (8-ounce) can plain tomato sauce  
(no sugar added)
½ teaspoon ground cumin
3 tablespoons chili powder
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup chicken broth or water, if needed
1. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat 
the olive oil and sauté the garlic and onion for 
about 5 minutes, until translucent.
2. Add the tomato sauce, cumin, chili powder,  
salt, and pepper. Bring to a low boil and reduce 
the heat to simmer. Reduce until thickened, 
adding a little chicken broth at a time if it gets 
too thick.
PER SERVING (½ cup) Calories 126, Fat 11g, Protein 2g, 
Sodium 669mg, Total Carbs 7g, Fiber 3g159The Dirty Dozen and 
the Clean Fifteen
A nonproﬁt environmental watchdog organization called Environmental 
Working Group (EWG) looks at data supplied by the U.S. Department of Agri -
culture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) about pesticide 
residues. Each year it compiles a list of the best and worst pesticide loads 
found in commercial crops. You can use these lists to decide which fruits and 
vegetables to buy organic to minimize your exposure to pesticides and which 
produce is considered safe enough to buy conventionally. This does not mean 
they are pesticide-free, though, so wash these fruits and vegetables thoroughly.
DIRTY DOZEN 
Apples
Celery
Cherry tomatoes 
Cucumbers
Grapes
Nectarines 
(imported)Peaches
Potatoes
Snap peas 
(imported)
Spinach
Strawberries
Sweet bell peppers
In addition to the Dirty Dozen, the EWG added 
two types of produce contaminated with 
highly toxic organophosphate insecticides:
Kale/collard greens Hot peppersCLEAN FIFTEEN 
Asparagus
Avocados
Cabbage
Cantaloupes 
(domestic)
Cauliﬂower
Eggplants
GrapefruitsKiwis
Mangoes
Onions
Papayas
Pineapples
Sweet corn
Sweet peas (frozen)
Sweet potatoes160Measurements and Conversion Tables
Volume Equivalents (Liquid)
US STANDARD US STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 ﬂ. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 ﬂ. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 ﬂ. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 ﬂ. oz. 240 mL
1½ cups 12 ﬂ. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 ﬂ. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 ﬂ. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 ﬂ. oz. 4 L
Volume Equivalents (Dry)
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
⅛ teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
⅓ cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 LOven Temperatures
FAHRENHEIT (F) CELSIUS (C) 
(APPROXIMATE)
250° 120°
300° 150°
325° 165°
350° 180°
375° 190°
400° 200°
425° 220°
450° 230°
Weight Equivalents
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound 455 g161Resources
 ■Paderno 4-Blade Spiralizer  
www.padernousa.com/ 4-blade -spiralizer/  
This is the ﬁrst spiralizer that I ever heard 
of—before this I was slicing my veggie noo -
dles with a potato peeler!
 ■The Inspiralizer  
inspiralized.com/ the-inspi ralizer / 
This is the spiralizer I use. I’m a big fan of it, 
and it’s not so big that it takes up too much 
room on my counter. (I use it so much that I 
never really put it away.)
 ■KitchenAid Spiralizer Attachment  
www.kitchenaid.c om/shop/  
-[KSM1APC]-5505597/K SM1APC/#  
If you’re weary of purchasing another 
gadget for your kitchen but you own a 
KitchenAid mixer, you can get a spiralizer 
attachment for it! It’s a little pricy, but I’ve 
heard nothing but good reviews. My best 
friend Tina has one and says she loves it.
 ■Veggetti  
buyvegge tti.com/  
The Veggetti is a hand-held spiralizer that 
I started out with before upgrading to a 
countertop model—if you’re not interested 
in committing to a full spiralizer, this small, 
manual one can be a really good place to 
start (but you won’t be able to choose a 
noodle shape or spiralize some of the larger 
vegetables in this book). ■The Big 15 Paleo Cookbook  
bit.ly/ big-15 -paleo- cookbook  
This is my ﬁrst cookbook, and while it only 
has a handful of veggie noodle recipes, it’s 
a great place to start if you’re looking for 
more Paleo recipes.
 ■Whole 30  
whol e30.com/  
I’ve never done a Whole 30 but do think it 
can be a great place to start if you’re feeling 
unsure or overwhelmed about changing 
your diet. The community is great and has 
lots of meal ideas and inspiration on the 
site, as well as their Instagram feeds  
(@whole30 and @whole30recipes).
 ■Paleo Subreddit  
www.reddit.com /r/paleo  
A great forum for sharing stories and asking 
questions. I was on here all the time when 
I ﬁrst started out. Take everything with a 
grain of salt—most advice you will encounter 
is through experience and not necessarily 
expertise, but I have always found it really 
helpful.162Dairy-free
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Baked Chicken Thighs with 
Bell Pepper Noodles, 151
Beef and Carrot Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel  
with Grilled Shrimp  
Skewers, 53
Beet Noodle Salad with Curry 
Dressing and Pistachios, 48
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Borscht with Pan-Seared Steak, 52
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Sausage, 114
Broccoli Noodle and 
Floret Ramen, 121
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120 Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Butternut Squash Curry Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Carrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas and Chicken 
in Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, Peas, and 
Creamy Lemon Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot Noodle  
Stir-Fry, 68Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Cucumber Noodle 
Salad with Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili Fries, 88
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad with 
Massaged Kale and Carrots, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl 
with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110Label Index163LABE L INDEXCucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Cucumber-Tarragon Green Bean 
Salad with Olives, 106
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Empanada Green Pepper and 
Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Enchilada Sauce, 156
Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Avocado-Lime 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Horseradish 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Garlic Aioli, 155
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Italian Sausages with Bell 
Pepper Noodles, 151
Italian Sausages with Bell  
Pepper Noodles and 
Mushrooms, 151
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Mexican Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
One-Pot Spaghetti and Meatballs, 96
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Cabbage Slaw with 
Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork, 142
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Paleo Mayo, 154
Paleo Ranch Dressing, 154
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Rosemary, 128
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Pizza Frittata, 20
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Quicker Pho, 24
Quick-Pickled Beet and 
Carrot Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodle Salad, 45
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Cucumber Noodles 
and Red Onion Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Quick-Pickled Okra and 
Carrots, 100
Rainbow Carrot Curly Fries, 64
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Balsamic Beet Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Roasted Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Pesto, 80
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74Roasted Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Poached Eggs, 75
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
Seasoned Rainbow Carrot Curly 
Fries with Paleo Ranch, 64
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber Ribbon 
Salad with Sesame Chicken, 102
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Shrimp and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Spice-Roasted Carrot Noodles 
with Pistachios, 61
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Spicy Sausage Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho with 
Cucumber Noodles, 103
Spiralized Quick-Pickled Onions, 156
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Steak and Shrimp Fajita Skillet, 148
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88164
LABE L INDEXSweet Potato Curry Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Traditional Egg Drop Soup, 65
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Olives and Tuna, 146
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vegetarian Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle  
Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Walnut Pesto Broccoli  
Spaghetti, 117
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Kale, Cranberries, 
and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Zucchini Noodle Pho, 24
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96
Nut-free
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Baked Chicken Thighs with 
Bell Pepper Noodles, 151
Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles with 
Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Beef Stroganoﬀ, 123
Beef Stroganoﬀ with Mushrooms, 123
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel with 
Grilled Shrimp Skewers, 53
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce, 54Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Borscht with Pan-Seared Steak, 52
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Sausage, 114
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Broccoli Noodle and 
Floret Ramen, 121
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Fresh Herbs, 82
Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 66
Buﬀalo Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Buﬀalo Shrimp Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Butternut Squash Curry Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Butternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Butternut Squash Noodles with 
Browned Butter–Cream Sauce, 82165LABE L INDEXButternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139
Cajun Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Carrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Chicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Chicken and Carrot Noodle  
Salad with Lemon  
Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Cucumber Noodle 
Salad with Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Enchilada Broccoli Bake, 97
Chicken Enchilada Noodle Bake, 97
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili Fries, 88
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cream of Broccoli Noodle Soup, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Bacon, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Beef Broth, 116
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl 
with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Cucumber-Tarragon Green Bean 
Salad with Olives, 106
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Empanada Green Pepper and 
Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Enchilada Sauce, 156
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Flank Steak over Fried Beet Noodles 
with Avocado-Lime Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried Beet Noodles 
with Horseradish Dressing, 55Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Garlic Aioli, 155
Garlic and Chile–Smashed Chicken 
with Carrot Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed Chicken 
with Cucumber Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed Shrimp 
with Cucumber Noodles, 108
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Italian Sausages with Bell 
Pepper Noodles, 151
Italian Sausages with Bell Pepper 
Noodles and Mushrooms, 151
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Mexican Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Chicken 
and Tomatoes, 74
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
(Not Spicy) Sausage Squash  
Noodles, 81
One-Pot Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Zucchini Noodles, 123
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy over 
Turnip Noodles with Spinach, 129
One-Pot Spaghetti and Meatballs, 96
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Cabbage Slaw with 
Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork, 142
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Paleo Mayo, 154166
LABE L INDEXPaleo Ranch Dressing, 154
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Rosemary, 128
Pasta Primavera, 34
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Lettuce Wraps, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak Lettuce 
Wraps with Mushrooms, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Omelet, 147
Pizza Frittata, 20
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Pork Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Quicker Pho, 24
Quick-Pickled Beet and 
Carrot Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodle Salad, 45
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Cucumber Noodles 
and Red Onion Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Quick-Pickled Okra and 
Carrots, 100
Rainbow Carrot Curly Fries, 64
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Balsamic Beet Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74
Roasted Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Poached Eggs, 75
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
Sausage Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Seasoned Rainbow Carrot Curly 
Fries with Paleo Ranch, 64Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber Ribbon 
Salad with Sesame Chicken, 102
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Shrimp and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp Scampi, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Shrimp Scampi with  
Tomatoes, 36
Slow Cooker Chicken Enchilada 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 97
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Spaghetti with Butter 
and Tarragon, 95
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Spicy Sausage Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho with 
Cucumber Noodles, 103
Spiralized Quick-Pickled  
Onions, 156
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato  
Fritters, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Steak and Shrimp Fajita Skillet, 148
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil  
Fettuccini, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage  
Butternut Squash Fettuccini, 83
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Curry Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Lobster, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Tuna, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
Taco Seasoning, 155
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Traditional Egg Drop Soup, 65
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Olives and Tuna, 146
Truﬄe Oil Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41167LABE L INDEXTuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell Pepper 
Sauce and Chicken, 132
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vegetarian Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Avocado and Fried Egg, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Kale, Cranberries, 
and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Zucchini Noodle Pho, 24
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
Zucchini Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 133
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96
Raw
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl 
with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodles in Almond 
Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber Noodles with 
Cashew Butter Sauce, 111
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Quick Pickled Kimchi, 138
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho with 
Cucumber Noodles, 103
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with Avocado, 104Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle  
Salad, 62
30 minutes or less
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Bacon-Roasted Turnip  
Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles with 
Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel  
with Grilled Shrimp Skewers, 53
Beet Noodle Salad with Curry 
Dressing and Pistachios, 48
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce, 54
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54
Beet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120 
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120168
LABE L INDEXBrowned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Fresh Herbs, 82
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Rosemary 
and Walnuts, 82
Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Butternut Squash Curry Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Butternut Squash Noodles with 
Browned Butter–Cream Sauce, 82
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Cajun Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Carrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas and Chicken 
in Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, Peas,  
and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Cucumber  
Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Cucumber Noodles  
with Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Poke  
Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl 
with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Cucumber Noodles in Almond 
Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber Noodles with 
Cashew Butter Sauce, 111Cucumber-Tarragon Green Bean 
Salad with Olives, 106
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Empanada Green Pepper and 
Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Enchilada Sauce, 156
Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Avocado-Lime 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Horseradish 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Mexican Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy over 
Turnip Noodles with Spinach, 129
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Paleo Mayo, 154
Paleo Ranch Dressing, 154
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Rosemary, 128
Pasta Primavera, 34169LABE L INDEXPesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Pork Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Rainbow Carrot Curly Fries, 64
Roasted Balsamic Beet Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Roasted Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Pesto, 80
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74
Roasted Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Poached Eggs, 75
Sausage Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Seasoned Rainbow Carrot Curly 
Fries with Paleo Ranch, 64
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber Ribbon 
Salad with Sesame Chicken, 102
Shrimp and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp Scampi, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Tomatoes, 36
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Spaghetti with Butter 
and Tarragon, 95
Spice-Roasted Carrot Noodles 
with Pistachios, 61
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Spicy Sausage Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Steak and Shrimp Fajita Skillet, 148
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Fettuccini, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage  
Butternut Squash  
Fettuccini, 83
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Curry Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Lobster, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Tuna, 95
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
Taco Seasoning, 155
Thai Almond Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23Traditional Egg Drop Soup, 65
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Olives and Tuna, 146
Truﬄe Oil Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Avocado and Fried Egg, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Walnut Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Kale, Cranberries, 
and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Vegan
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59170
LABE L INDEXCarrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Chili Fries, 88
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad  
with Massaged Kale 
and Carrots, 46
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber-Tarragon Green Bean 
Salad with Olives, 106
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Rainbow Carrot Curly Fries, 64
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Balsamic Beet Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho with 
Cucumber Noodles, 103
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Curry Fries, 88Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
Taco Seasoning, 155
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle  
Salad, 62
Walnut Pesto Broccoli  
Spaghetti, 117
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32171Recipe Index
A
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
B
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Baked Chicken Thighs with 
Bell Pepper Noodles, 151
Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles with 
Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Beef Stroganoﬀ, 123
Beef Stroganoﬀ with Mushrooms, 123
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel with 
Grilled Shrimp Skewers, 53
Beet Noodle Salad with Curry 
Dressing and Pistachios, 48
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce, 54
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54
Beet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Borscht with Pan-Seared Steak, 52
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Broccoli and Artichoke  
Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Sausage, 114
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Broccoli Noodle and 
Floret Ramen, 121
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120 
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Fresh Herbs, 82
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Rosemary 
and Walnuts, 82
Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 66
Buﬀalo Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Buﬀalo Shrimp Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Butternut Squash Curry  
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78Butternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Butternut Squash Noodles with 
Browned Butter–Cream  
Sauce, 82
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
C
Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini Noodle  
Soup, 139
Cajun Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Carrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas and Chicken 
in Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, Peas,  
and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken Alfredo, 29172
RECIP E INDEXChicken-Broccoli Pasta with 
Lemon and Kale, 120
Chicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot Noodle  
Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Cucumber Noodle 
Salad with Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Cucumber Noodles with 
Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Chicken Enchilada Broccoli Bake, 97
Chicken Enchilada Noodle Bake, 97
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chicken Zucchini Ribbon Salad 
with Pine Nuts and Basil, 22 
Chili Fries, 88
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad  
with Massaged Kale 
and Carrots, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Cream of Broccoli Noodle Soup, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Bacon, 116Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Beef Broth, 116
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl 
with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Cucumber Noodles in Almond 
Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber Noodles with 
Cashew Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber-Tarragon Green Bean 
Salad with Olives, 106
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
D
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
E
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Empanada Green Pepper and 
Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Enchilada Sauce, 156
F
Fettuccini Alfredo with Shrimp, 29
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Avocado-Lime 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried Beet  
Noodles with Horseradish 
Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
G
Garlic Aioli, 155
Garlic and Chile–Smashed  
Chicken with Carrot 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed Chicken 
with Cucumber Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed Shrimp 
with Cucumber Noodles, 108
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
H
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
I
Italian Sausages with Bell 
Pepper Noodles, 151
Italian Sausages with Bell Pepper 
Noodles and Mushrooms, 151
K
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
L
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
M
Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44173RECIP E INDEXMexican Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Chicken 
and Tomatoes, 74
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
N
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
O
One-Pot Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Zucchini Noodles, 123
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy  
over Turnip Noodles 
with Spinach, 129
One-Pot Spaghetti and  
Meatballs, 96
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Cabbage Slaw with 
Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork, 142
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Paleo Mayo, 154
Paleo Ranch Dressing, 154
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Rosemary, 128
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Lettuce Wraps, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak  
Lettuce Wraps with 
Mushrooms, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Omelet, 147
Pizza Frittata, 20
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Pork Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93Q
Quicker Pho, 24
Quick-Pickled Beet and 
Carrot Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodle Salad, 45
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Cucumber Noodles 
and Red Onion Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Quick-Pickled Okra and 
Carrots, 100
R
Rainbow Carrot Curly Fries, 64
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Balsamic Beet Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Roasted Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Pesto, 80
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74
Roasted Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Poached Eggs, 75
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
S
Sausage Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Seasoned Rainbow Carrot Curly 
Fries with Paleo Ranch, 64
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber Ribbon 
Salad with Sesame Chicken, 102
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38Shrimp and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp Scampi, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Tomatoes, 36
Slow Cooker Chicken Enchilada 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 97
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Spaghetti with Butter 
and Tarragon, 95
Spice-Roasted Carrot Noodles 
with Pistachios, 61
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Spicy Sausage Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho with 
Cucumber Noodles, 103
Spiralized Quick-Pickled Onions, 156
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Steak and Shrimp Fajita Skillet, 148
Summer Squash Noodle Salad with 
Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil  
Fettuccini, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage  
Butternut Squash Fettuccini, 83
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88174
RECIP E INDEXSweet Potato Curry Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Lobster, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with Butter, 
Tarragon, and Tuna, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
T
Taco Seasoning, 155
Thai Almond Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with  
Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad with 
Paleo Ranch, 104
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Traditional Egg Drop Soup, 65Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Olives and Tuna, 146
Truﬄe Oil Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell Pepper 
Sauce and Chicken, 132
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
V
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vegetarian Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Avocado and Fried Egg, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
W
Walnut Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Kale, Cranberries, 
and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Z
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Zucchini Noodle Pho, 24
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
Zucchini Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 133
Zucchini Ribbon Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 22
Zucchini Ribbon Salad with 
Pine Nuts and Basil, 22
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96175A
Almond butter
Chicken Cucumber Noodles 
with Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber Noodles in 
Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Almond milk
Chicken Alfredo, 29
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Fettuccini Alfredo 
with Shrimp, 29
Almonds
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Thai Almond Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Apples
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Artichoke hearts
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata with Sausage, 114
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated 
Olives and Artichokes, 32Arugula
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Avocado
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Avocado-Lime Dressing, 55
Roasted Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Creamy Pesto, 80
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Avocado, 104
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Avocado 
and Fried Egg, 62
B
Bacon
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Bacon-Roasted Turnip 
Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Bacon, 116
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad 
with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Balsamic vinegar
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Basil
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Pasta Primavera, 34General Index176
GENER AL INDEXPesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Roasted Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Creamy Pesto, 80
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Fettuccini, 83
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 132
Walnut Pesto Broccoli 
Spaghetti, 117
Zucchini Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 133
Bean sprouts
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Thai Almond Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Beef
Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Beef Stroganoﬀ, 123
Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Mushrooms, 123
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118Bibimbap with Steak, 118
Borscht with Pan-Seared 
Steak, 52
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Empanada Green Pepper 
and Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Avocado-Lime Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
One-Pot Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Zucchini Noodles, 123
One-Pot Spaghetti and 
Meatballs, 96
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Lettuce Wraps, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak Lettuce 
Wraps with Mushrooms, 147
Philly “No Cheese” 
Steak Omelet, 147
Quicker Pho, 24
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Steak and Shrimp Fajita 
Skillet, 148
Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
Zucchini Noodle Pho, 24
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96
Beets
about, 43
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and 
Fennel with Grilled 
Shrimp Skewers, 53
Beet Noodle Salad with Curry 
Dressing and Pistachios, 48
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce, 54
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54
Beet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Borscht with Pan-Seared 
Steak, 52
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49
Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Massaged 
Kale and Carrots, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Avocado-Lime Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Quick-Pickled Beet and 
Carrot Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickled Beet 
Noodle Salad, 45
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles, 47177GENER AL INDEXRoasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodle Salad, 47
Roasted Balsamic Beet 
Noodles with Bacon, 47
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Bell peppers
about, 145
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Baked Chicken Thighs with 
Bell Pepper Noodles, 151
Beef and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Empanada Green Pepper 
and Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Italian Sausages with Bell 
Pepper Noodles, 151
Italian Sausages with Bell  
Pepper Noodles and 
Mushrooms, 151
Pasta Primavera, 34Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Lettuce Wraps, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak Lettuce 
Wraps with Mushrooms, 147
Philly “No Cheese” 
Steak Omelet, 147
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Shrimp and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Steak and Shrimp Fajita 
Skillet, 148
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Olives and Tuna, 146
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 132
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
Vietnamese Carrot 
Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Avocado 
and Fried Egg, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Zucchini Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 133
Blades, 16–17
Bok choy
Beef Chow Fun, 27
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
Broccoli
about, 113Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Beef Stroganoﬀ, 123
Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Mushrooms, 123
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata with Sausage, 114
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Broccoli Noodle and 
Floret Ramen, 121
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Enchilada 
Broccoli Bake, 97
Cream of Broccoli 
Noodle Soup, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Bacon, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Beef Broth, 116178
GENER AL INDEXPasta Primavera, 34
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Shrimp and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Vegetarian Broccoli 
Ramen Bowl, 121
Walnut Pesto Broccoli 
Spaghetti, 117
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad 
with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Butternut squash
about, 71
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Fresh Herbs, 82
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Rosemary 
and Walnuts, 82
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Butternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Browned Butter–
Cream Sauce, 82
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Chicken 
and Tomatoes, 74
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
Roasted Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Creamy Pesto, 80
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles, 74
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles with 
Poached Eggs, 75
Sausage Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Mushrooms 
and Sage, 79
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spicy Sausage Squash  
Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash  
Noodles, 81
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Fettuccini, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage 
Butternut Squash 
Fettuccini, 83
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale, 
Cranberries, and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
C
Cabbage
about, 137
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139
Chicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Paleo Cabbage Slaw, 142
Paleo Cabbage Slaw with 
Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork, 142
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Capers
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Carrots
about, 57
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Beef and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
Borscht with Pan-Seared 
Steak, 52
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 66
Buﬀalo Shrimp Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139179GENER AL INDEXCarrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas 
and Chicken in Creamy 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, 
Peas, and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Chicken and Carrot Noodle  
Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Empanada Green Pepper 
and Carrot Noodles, 150
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Carrot 
Noodles, 108
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
Paleo Carrot Slaw, 142
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Pork Fried Sweet Potato 
“Rice,” 93
Quick-Pickled Beet and 
Carrot Noodles, 45
Quick-Pickle Kimchi, 138
Quick-Pickled Okra 
and Carrots, 100
Seasoned Rainbow Carrot Curly 
Fries with Paleo Ranch, 64
Shrimp and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Spice-Roasted Carrot Noodles 
with Pistachios, 61
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Vietnamese Carrot 
Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Avocado and 
Fried Egg, 62, 64
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115Warm Broccoli Salad 
with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Cashews
Chicken Alfredo, 29
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Cucumber Noodles with 
Cashew Butter Sauce, 111
Fettuccini Alfredo with  
Shrimp, 29
Celery
Borscht with Pan-Seared 
Steak, 52
Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 66
Buﬀalo Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Buﬀalo Shrimp Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Chicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with  
Chicken, 23
Two-Beet Borscht with Crispy 
Beet Topping, 50–52
Vegetarian Borscht, 52
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Chicken
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Baked Chicken Thighs with 
Bell Pepper Noodles, 151
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120
Buﬀalo Chicken Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 66
Buﬀalo Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40180
GENER AL INDEXButternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Chicken Salad, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Pasta with Peas 
and Chicken in Creamy 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken Alfredo, 29
Chicken-Broccoli Pasta with 
Lemon and Kale, 120
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Cucumber Noodle 
Salad with Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Cucumber Noodles 
with Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Chicken Enchilada 
Broccoli Bake, 97
Chicken Enchilada 
Noodle Bake, 97
Chicken Fajita Skillet, 148
Chicken Fajita Skillet 
with Avocado, 148
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Carrot 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108Mexican Chicken 
Zoodle Bowl, 40
Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Chicken 
and Tomatoes, 74
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Sesame Chicken, 102
Slow Cooker Chicken Enchilada 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 97
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 132
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Zucchini Noodles with Red  
Bell Pepper Sauce 
and Chicken, 133
Chile peppers
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Carrot 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Shrimp with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Cilantro
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Clams
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and  
Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Coconut milk
Beef Stroganoﬀ, 123
Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Mushrooms, 123
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Cabbage 
and Bean Sprouts, 78
Butternut Squash Curry 
Noodles with Chicken, 78
Chicken Alfredo, 29
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Cream of Broccoli 
Noodle Soup, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Bacon, 116
Cream of Broccoli Noodle 
Soup with Beef Broth, 116
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Fettuccini Alfredo 
with Shrimp, 29
One-Pot Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Zucchini Noodles, 123
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Spinach, 129
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and  
Chicken, 132181GENER AL INDEXZucchini Noodles with Red  
Bell Pepper Sauce and  
Chicken, 133
Cranberries
Cranberry Orange Beet  
Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Massaged 
Kale and Carrots, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Quick-Pickled Beet 
Noodle Salad, 45
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale, 
Cranberries, and Chicken, 76
Cucumbers
about, 99
Chicken and Cucumber  
Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Chicken Cucumber Noodles 
with Almond Butter Sauce, 111
Chili-Lime Cucumber and 
Carrot Noodles with 
Crushed Almonds, 49
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Poke  
Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Cucumber Noodles in 
Almond Butter Sauce, 111Cucumber Noodles with 
Cashew Butter Sauce, 111
Cucumber-Tarragon Green 
Bean Salad with Olives, 106
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Shrimp with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles  
with Bean Sprouts 
and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles, 100
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles and Red 
Onion Noodles, 100
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Sesame Chicken, 102
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles, 143
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho 
with Cucumber Noodles, 103
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Paleo Ranch, 104
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143Vietnamese Carrot 
Noodle Salad, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Avocado 
and Fried Egg, 62
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Chicken, 62
D
Dill
Chicken and Cucumber  
Noodle Salad with 
Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Lemon and Dill, 101
E
Eggplant
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Eggs
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata with Sausage, 114
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Carrot Noodle Egg Drop Soup, 65
Carrot Noodle Nests with 
Baked Eggs, 60
Carrot Noodle Salad with  
Lemon Vinaigrette 
and Fried Egg, 59
Empanada Green Pepper 
and Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Philly “No Cheese” 
Steak Omelet, 147182
GENER AL INDEXPizza Frittata, 20
Pork Fried Sweet Potato 
“Rice,” 93
Roasted Moroccan Butternut 
Squash Noodles with 
Poached Eggs, 75
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara  
with Peas, 31
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Traditional Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Egg Drop Soup, 65
Vegetarian Spicy Korean 
Noodles, 143
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
Vietnamese Carrot Noodle 
Salad with Avocado 
and Fried Egg, 62
F
Fennel
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and 
Fennel with Grilled 
Shrimp Skewers, 53
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Fish. See Salmon; Tuna
G
Garlic
Carrot Pasta with Peas 
and Chicken in Creamy 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, 
Peas, and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Garlic Aioli, 155Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Carrot 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Chicken with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Shrimp with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Ginger, pickled
Cucumber Noodle Poke  
Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles  
with Bean Sprouts 
and Ginger, 107
Grapefruit
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Avocado, 44
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Green beans
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Cucumber-Tarragon Green 
Bean Salad with Olives, 106
H
Herbs and spices, 16
Honey
Cinnamon-Honey Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Horseradish
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
I
Ingredients, 15–16
J
Jalapeños
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho 
with Cucumber Noodles, 103
K
Kale
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120 
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Massaged 
Kale and Carrots, 46
Quick-Pickled Beet 
Noodle Salad, 45
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale 
and Cranberries, 76
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale, 
Cranberries, and Chicken, 76
Warm Butternut Squash Noodle 
Salad with Steak, 76
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
L
Lemons
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce, 54
Beet Pasta with Lemon-Butter 
Sauce and Chicken, 54183GENER AL INDEXBeet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54
Broccoli Pasta with Chicken, 
Lemon, and Kale, 120 
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Kale, 120
Broccoli Pasta with Lemon 
and Massaged Kale, 120
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Carrot Noodle Salad with Lemon 
Vinaigrette and Fried Egg, 59
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, 
Peas, and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Carrot Noodle Salad 
with Lemon Vinaigrette, 59
Chicken and Cucumber Noodle 
Salad with Lemon and Dill, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Lemon and Dill, 101
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
Lettuce
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Philly “No Cheese” Steak 
Lettuce Wraps, 147
Philly “No Cheese” Steak Lettuce 
Wraps with Mushrooms, 147
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Limes
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Creamy Cilantro-Lime 
“Pesto,” 80
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Chili-Lime Beet Noodles, 49Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Flank Steak over Fried 
Beet Noodles with 
Avocado-Lime Dressing, 55
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Lobster
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Butter, Tarragon, and Lobster, 95
M
Maple syrup
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Cinnamon-Maple Roasted 
Carrot Noodles, 61
Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Sweet Rainbow Carrot 
Curly Fries, 64
Mint
Beet Salad with Grapefruit 
and Mint, 44
Cucumber-Mint Green 
Bean Salad, 106
Cucumber-Mint Green Bean 
Salad with Chicken, 106
Mushrooms
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Mushrooms, 123
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Butternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Italian Sausages with Bell Pepper 
Noodles and Mushrooms, 151
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129Philly “No Cheese” Steak  
Lettuce Wraps with 
Mushrooms, 147
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Sausage Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Mushrooms 
and Sage, 79
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Vegetarian Broccoli 
Ramen Bowl, 121
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
N
Nuts. See speciﬁc
O
Okra
Quick-Pickled Okra 
and Carrots, 100
Olives
Cucumber-Tarragon Green 
Bean Salad with Olives, 106
Empanada Green Pepper 
and Carrot Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles, 150
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Olives and Tuna, 146
Zoodles with Marinated 
Olives and Artichokes, 32184
GENER AL INDEXOnions
Quick-Pickled Cucumber 
Noodles and Red 
Onion Noodles, 100
Spiralized Quick-Pickled 
Onions, 156
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Paleo Ranch, 104
Oranges
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Massaged 
Kale and Carrots, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
P
Pancetta
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip 
Noodles with Rosemary, 128
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara  
with Peas, 31
Pantry basics
about, 15–16
Enchilada Sauce, 156
Garlic Aioli, 155
Paleo Mayo, 154
Paleo Ranch Dressing, 154
Taco Seasoning, 155
Peas
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Beet Noodles, Peas, and 
Fennel with Grilled 
Shrimp Skewers, 53
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Carrot Pasta with Peas 
and Chicken in Creamy 
Garlic Sauce, 69Carrot Pasta with Peas and 
Creamy Garlic Sauce, 69
Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, 
Peas, and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Pork Fried Sweet Potato 
“Rice,” 93
Roasted Beet Noodles with 
Peas and Fennel, 53
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Pecans
Bacon-Maple-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Honey-Cinnamon-Pecan 
Butternut Squash, 73
Maple-Pecan Butternut 
Squash Curls, 73
Pepitas
Southwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Pepperoni
Pizza Frittata, 20
Pine nuts
Creamy Pesto Noodles, 80
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti, 117
Pesto Broccoli Spaghetti 
with Chicken, 117
Roasted Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Creamy Pesto, 80
Pistachios
Beet Noodle Salad with Curry 
Dressing and Pistachios, 48
Chicken Curry Beet Noodle 
Salad with Pistachios, 48
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Spice-Roasted Carrot Noodles 
with Pistachios, 61Pork. See also  Bacon; Pancetta; 
Pepperoni; Sausage
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Broccoli Noodle and 
Floret Ramen, 121
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Roasted Pork, 124
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Spiralized Apples and Pork, 125
Broccoli Ramen Bowl, 121
Paleo Cabbage Slaw with 
Slow-Cooked Pulled Pork, 142
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with Bean 
Sprouts and Ginger, 107
Pork Bánh Mì Noodles with 
Chili-Garlic Aioli, 107
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Proteins, 15
R
Radishes
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Kimchi Cabbage Noodles, 138
Kimchi with Cucumbers, 138
Quick-Pickled Kimchi, 138
Raisins
Broccoli Noodle Slaw with 
Pork and Raisins, 125
Carrot Noodle Salad with Tahini-  
Lime Dressing and Raisins, 58
Rosemary
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Rosemary 
and Walnuts, 82
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip 
Noodles with Rosemary, 128
S
Sage
Bacon Butternut Squash Noodles 
with Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Beet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54185GENER AL INDEXButternut Squash Fettuccini with 
Mushrooms and Sage, 79
Sausage Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Mushrooms 
and Sage, 79
Salmon
Beet Noodles, Peas, and Fennel 
with Baked Salmon, 53
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Sausage
Broccoli and Artichoke 
Frittata with Sausage, 114
Italian Sausages with Bell 
Pepper Noodles, 151
Italian Sausages with Bell Pepper 
Noodles and Mushrooms, 151
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Spinach, 129
Sausage Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Mushrooms 
and Sage, 79
Spicy Sausage Squash  
Noodles, 81
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage 
Butternut Squash 
Fettuccini, 83
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sesame seeds
Asian Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Slaw, 140
Asian Purple Cabbage Noodle 
Slaw with Avocado, 140
Beef and Broccoli Noodles, 122Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 122
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Water Chestnuts, 122
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Bibimbap with Steak, 118
Broccoli Bibimbap, 118
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Cucumber Noodle Poke Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Salmon, 110
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
Pork Fried Sweet Potato 
“Rice,” 93
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Sesame Chicken, 102
Shallots
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Chicken Alfredo, 29
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Fettuccini Alfredo 
with Shrimp, 29
Southwestern Butternut  
Squash Salad with  
Honey-Lime Dijon 
and Pepitas, 72
Warm Broccoli and Kale 
Salad with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad 
with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Shrimp
Beet Noodles, Peas, and 
Fennel with Grilled 
Shrimp Skewers, 53
Buﬀalo Shrimp Carrot 
Noodle Skillet, 67Carrot Pasta with Shrimp, 
Peas, and Creamy Lemon 
Garlic Sauce, 69
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili-Lime Shrimp with 
Beet Noodles, 49
Cucumber Noodle Grilled 
Shrimp Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail, 109
Cucumber Noodle Shrimp 
Cocktail with Aioli, 109
Curry Beet Noodle Salad 
with Shrimp, 48
Fettuccini Alfredo 
with Shrimp, 29
Garlic and Chile–Smashed 
Shrimp with Cucumber 
Noodles, 108
Sesame-Vinegar Cucumber 
Ribbon Salad with 
Chili-Garlic Shrimp, 102
Shrimp and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp Scampi, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Shrimp Scampi with  
Tomatoes, 36
Steak and Shrimp Fajita 
Skillet, 148
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Spinach
Bibimbap with Spinach, 118
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette, 72
Butternut Squash Salad with 
Apple Cider Vinaigrette 
and Grilled Chicken, 72
Cranberry Orange Beet Salad, 46
Cranberry Orange Beet 
Salad with Salmon, 46
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Spinach, 129186
GENER AL INDEXSouthwestern Butternut Squash 
Salad with Honey-Lime 
Dijon and Pepitas, 72
Spicy Korean Beef Noodles 
with Spinach, 143
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Warm Broccoli Salad 
with Bacon, 115
Warm Broccoli Salad with 
Bacon and Chicken, 115
Spiralizers, 16–17
Spiralizing cheat sheet, 14
Squash. See Butternut squash; 
Summer squash; Yellow 
squash; Zucchini
Summer squash
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21
Summer Squash Salad 
with Greens, 21
“Tortellini” Soup, 23
“Tortellini” Soup with Chicken, 23
Vegetarian “Tortellini” Soup, 23
Sun-dried tomatoes
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Butternut Squash Fettuccini 
with Shrimp, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Basil 
Fettuccini, 83
Sun-dried Tomato-Sausage 
Butternut Squash 
Fettuccini, 83Sweet potatoes
about, 85
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
Breakfast Sweet Potato Rice, 93
Buﬀalo Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Skillet, 67
Chicken Enchilada 
Noodle Bake, 97
Chili Fries, 88
Fried Sweet Potato “Rice,” 93
One-Pot Spaghetti and 
Meatballs, 96
Pork Fried Sweet Potato 
“Rice,” 93
Slow Cooker Chicken Enchilada 
Sweet Potato Casserole, 97
Spaghetti with Butter 
and Tarragon, 95
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato 
Fritters, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
with Avocado and Tomato, 89
Sweet Potato and Carrot Noodle 
Hash Brown Casserole, 87
Sweet Potato Cincinnati  
Chili, 39
Sweet Potato Curly Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Curry Fries, 88
Sweet Potato Hash Brown 
Casserole, 86
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Kale, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms and Spinach, 94
Sweet Potato Linguini with 
Mushrooms, Spinach, 
and Sausage, 94
Sweet Potato Spaghetti 
with Butter, Tarragon, 
and Lobster, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Butter, Tarragon, and Tuna, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96
Thai Almond Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Thai Chicken Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92Thai Shrimp Sweet Potato 
Noodle Bowls, 92
Veggie Sweet Potato Hash 
Brown Casserole, 87
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
T
Tahini
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Avocado, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Chicken, 58
Carrot Noodle Salad with 
Tahini-Lime Dressing 
and Raisins, 58
Creamy Purple Cabbage 
Noodle Asian Slaw, 140
Tarragon
Cucumber-Tarragon Green 
Bean Salad with Olives, 106
Marinated Beet Noodles with 
Grapefruit and Tarragon, 44
Spaghetti with Butter 
and Tarragon, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti 
with Butter, Tarragon, 
and Lobster, 95
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Butter, Tarragon, and  
Tuna, 95
Thai chiles
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Tomatoes. See also  Sun-dried 
tomatoes
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Beef Stew with Sweet 
Potato Noodles, 90
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Broccoli and Artichoke Frittata 
with Cherry Tomatoes, 114
Cabbage Soup, 139
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139187GENER AL INDEXChicken and Cabbage Soup, 139
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles, 103
Gazpacho with Cucumber 
Noodles and Shrimp, 103
Moroccan Butternut Squash 
Noodles with Chicken 
and Tomatoes, 74
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
(Not Spicy) Sausage 
Squash Noodles, 81
One-Pot Spaghetti and 
Meatballs, 96
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pizza Frittata, 20
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35
Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles, 38
Short Rib Summer Squash 
Noodles with Peas, 38
Shrimp Scampi with Tomatoes, 36
Slow Cooker Short Ribs, 38
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spicy Sausage Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Tomato Squash Noodles, 81
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho 
with Cucumber Noodles, 103
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Spiralized Sweet Potato Fritters 
and Egg Sammies, 89
Spiralized Sweet Potato  
Fritters with Avocado 
and Tomato, 89
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Cilantro-Lime Dressing, 21
Summer Squash Noodle Salad 
with Tomato and Avocado, 21Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96
Tomato, Onion, and Cucumber 
Noodle Salad, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Avocado, 104
Tomato, Onion, and 
Cucumber Noodle Salad 
with Paleo Ranch, 104
Traditional Beef Stew with 
Carrot Noodles, 90
Tri-Color Bell Pepper Antipasto 
Salad with Cucumbers, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Olives and Tuna, 146
White Chicken Chili with 
Sweet Potato Noodles, 90
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96
Tuna
Cucumber Noodle Poke  
Bowl, 110
Cucumber Noodle Poke 
Bowl with Avocado, 110
Cucumber Noodle Salad with 
Lemon, Dill, and Tuna, 101
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Butter, Tarragon, and  
Tuna, 95
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Lemon Vinaigrette, 146
Tri-Color Bell Pepper 
Antipasto Salad with 
Olives and Tuna, 146
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Turkey
Empanada Green Pepper 
Noodles with Turkey, 150
Sweet Potato Spaghetti with 
Turkey Meatballs, 96Turnips
about, 127
Bacon-Roasted Turnip 
Noodles, 128
Bacon-Roasted Turnip Noodles 
with Chicken, 128
Beef and Pork Chili with 
Turnip Noodles, 135
Cajun Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Chicken Chili with Turnip 
Noodles, 135
Chili with Turnip Noodles, 134
Flank Steak over Fried 
Turnip Noodles with 
Horseradish Dressing, 55
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Mushrooms, 129
One-Pot Sausage and Gravy 
over Turnip Noodles 
with Spinach, 129
Pancetta-Roasted Turnip 
Noodles with Rosemary, 128
Truﬄe Oil Turnip Curly  
Fries, 130
Turnip Curly Fries, 130
Turnip Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Shrimp, 133
Turnip Pasta with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and  
Chicken, 132
V
Vegetables. See also  speciﬁc
the Big 10, 15
other, 16
W
Walnuts
Beet Pasta with Walnuts 
and Sage, 54
Browned Butter(nut) Squash 
Noodles with Rosemary 
and Walnuts, 82
Walnut Pesto Broccoli 
Spaghetti, 117
Warm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale, 
Cranberries, and Chicken188
GENER AL INDEXWarm Butternut Squash 
Noodle Salad with Kale, 
Cranberries, and Chicken, 76
Water chestnuts
Beef and Broccoli Noodles 
with Water Chestnuts, 122
Beef and Carrot Noodle 
Stir-Fry, 68
Chicken and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Shrimp and Carrot 
Noodle Stir-Fry, 68
Watermelon
Spicy Watermelon Gazpacho 
with Cucumber Noodles, 103
Y
Yellow squash
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Pasta Primavera, 34
Z
Zucchini
about, 19
Alfredo Primavera, 34
Beef Chow Fun, 27
BLT Zucchini Noodle Frittata, 20
Buﬀalo Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Cabbage and Zucchini 
Noodle Soup, 139
Chicken Alfredo, 29Chicken Chow Fun, 27
Chicken and Mushroom 
Noodle Casserole, 41
Chicken Pasta Primavera, 34
Chicken and Shrimp 
Drunken Noodles, 26
Cincinnati Chicken Chili, 39
Cincinnati Chili, 39
Creamy Fettuccini Alfredo, 28
Curry Chicken Zoodle Bowl, 40
Drunken Zucchini Noodles, 26
Easy Sesame Noodles, 25
Fettuccini Alfredo 
with Shrimp, 29
Fettuccini Bolognese, 30
Grilled Salmon Zoodles 
with Marinated Olives 
and Artichokes, 32
Guiltless Spaghetti Carbonara, 31
Lemon-Butter Zucchini 
Spaghetti with Clams, 33
Mexican Chicken 
Zoodle Bowl, 40
Mushroom Bolognese, 30
One-Pot Beef Stroganoﬀ with 
Zucchini Noodles, 123
Pancetta Bolognese, 30
Pasta Primavera, 34
Pizza Frittata, 20
Pork Belly Sesame Noodles, 25
Quicker Pho, 24
Ratatouille Chicken Bowls, 35Ratatouille with Mushrooms, 35
Roasted Tomato and Zucchini 
Noodle Frittata, 20
Sesame Noodles with Kimchi, 25
Shrimp Scampi, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Broccoli, 36
Shrimp Scampi with Tomatoes, 36
Spaghetti Carbonara 
with Chicken, 31
Spaghetti Carbonara with Peas, 31
Spicy Beef Drunken Noodles, 26
Spiralized Ratatouille, 35
Sweet Potato Cincinnati Chili, 39
Tuna Noodle Casserole, 41
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
with Broccoli, 41
Veggie Chow Fun (with Egg), 27
Zoodles with Capers and 
Artichokes, 32
Zoodles with Marinated 
Olives and Artichokes, 32
Zucchini Noodle Pho, 24
Zucchini Noodle Pho with 
Mushrooms and Bok Choy, 24
Zucchini Noodles with Red Bell 
Pepper Sauce and Chicken, 133
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti and Clams 
with Fresh Tomato, 33
Zucchini Spaghetti with 
Meatballs, 96189Acknowledgments
Many thanks go to my family,  who believes in me to no end. You make me 
feel like I can do anything.
Thank you again to Callisto Media for giving me the opportunity to write 
another book. It is such a pleasure working with all of you.
To my readers—of both the blog and my cookbooks—I thank you. My life 
and career would not be the same if you weren’t in them. Thank you for your 
support, your feedback, and your love. It means the world to me.
Thanks to my beautiful and smart and successful friends, Corri and Haley, 
for pushing me to work harder every day. You’re both an inspiration, and I don’t 
think you know how much either of you mean to me.
And to my husband, Rob, thank you for being my rock when things get 
crazy. I know our life isn’t always what we planned, but I love our adventures 
and wouldn’t be following this path with anyone else. Thank you—I love you.190About the Author
Megan Flynn Peterson  is the writer behind Freckled 
Italian , a blog that focuses on life, love, personal style, nostal -
gia, and lots of food. She has called Virginia, Minnesota, and 
North Carolina home but currently resides in the San Fran -
cisco Bay Area with her husband and their rescue pup. This is 
her second cookbook.
You can read more from Megan at freckleditalian.com/blog, or ﬁnd her on 
Instagram and Twitter @mﬂynnpete.
