PART 1
bowl 
basics
Building Blocks of a Tasty BowlThe best bowls have at least one of each of the follow -
ing elements. That said, feel free to skip one (or two) 
or use more than one from any given category. Bowls 
are all about flexibility and personal taste, so do as your 
taste buds—and the contents of your refrigerator and 
your cupboards—dictate to create bowls that range 
from simply healthful to over-the-top indulgent.
TOPPINGS 
Add just one bold garnish or finish with 
a few of them when you know that more 
than one can shine. They add creaminess, 
crunchy satisfaction, all kinds of color, and 
even more flavor.VEGETABLES
When it comes to vegetables, the more the  
merrier! Different types and preparations of 
vegetables add texture and flavor. Think of com-
binations that bring color, nutrients, and great 
taste, like chunks of leftover roasted asparagus 
and cauli flower, a handful of shredded lettuce and 
radish slices, or grilled eggplant, roasted sweet 
peppers, and shaved raw fennel. BASE
Bases are foods that tend to fill you up 
and soak up flavors from the rest of the 
ingredients in the bowl. A huge range 
of options is possible, including grains, 
legumes of all sorts, and vegetables. SAUCE
Condiments, dressings, and sauces  
of all kinds, whether store-bought or 
homemade, deliver a hit of flavor and 
bring together all of the elements in  
the bowl. 
PROTEIN
The protein can be any one of the usual  suspects: meat, fish, poultry, tofu, beans,  or even just an egg plopped on top. Nothing  says you have to add a protein-centric food,  but to give a bowl the satisfying heft of a  meal, it sure does help. 
That’s the bowls concept. Use the following basic  
recipes with this blueprint in mind, jump ahead to  
Part 2 for some easy-to-pull-together combinations,  
or dive in deep with the more involved composed-  
bowl recipes in Part 3.14
bowls!The most common bases for bowls are rice 
and quinoa, and multiple ways to cook both 
of them are included here. You’ll find other 
grains, pseudograins, and noodles here, as 
well. There is no need to stick to grains as 
the bases for your bowls, though. Beans 
and other legumes of all sorts can play that 
role, too, as can mashed, roasted, or hashed 
vegetables. 
As noted earlier, these recipes yield modest 
servings for four. You can easily adjust the 
amounts for larger batches and store the 
extra for another meal or two. Making a large 
batch of grains and freezing meal-size por
-
tions is a great way to work longer-cooking 
whole grains into everyday meals. GRAINS & THE LIKE
15
bowl basics
Barley
3 cups [720 ml] water or broth 
1 cup [200 g] pearled barley 
1⁄2 tsp salt (if using water)
In a medium saucepan over high heat, 
bring the water or broth to a boil. Add the 
barley and the salt if using water, bring 
back to a boil, adjust the heat to maintain a steady simmer, and cook, stirring fre-
quently, until the barley is tender, 25  to 
30 minutes. If any liquid remains, drain 
it off. Use immediately, or spread on a baking sheet to cool, then transfer to an 
airtight container and refrigerate for up 
to 3 days or freeze for up to 6  months.
Most barley sold in the United States is 
pearled, which means both the outer hull and some or all of the bran has been removed. The term 
pearled  refers to the polishing or 
“pearling” of the grain to remove the bran. Whole-grain barley, sometimes known as hulled barley, has had only the toughest outer hull removed, with the bran left intact. If you are using whole-grain barley, you will need to 
increase the cooking time to close to 1  hour 
and add extra liquid as needed for the barley to become tender. 
Mushroom Barley Pilaf (page  121) 
Swiss Chard–Barley Pilaf (page  104)Brown Rice 
(Long Grain, Medium Grain, Short Grain, or Sweet)
2 cups [480 ml] water or broth1 cup [200 g] rice
1⁄2 tsp salt (if using water)
In a medium saucepan over high heat, 
combine the water or broth, rice, and 
the salt if using water. Bring to a boil, 
stir once, cover, turn the heat to low, 
and cook, undisturbed, for 45  minutes. 
Remove from the heat—leave the lid 
on!—and let sit for 10  to 15  minutes. The 
grains will be tender and the liquid will 
be absorbed. Fluff with a fork and serve, 
or let cool, transfer to an airtight con-
tainer, and refrigerate for up to 3  days or 
freeze for up to 6  months.
I go out of my way to keep sweet brown 
rice—aka sticky brown rice—in my cupboard (it’s not always easy to find; health food stores and co-ops are often the best bet for tracking it down). It has the same short, plump kernels as sticky white rice, also known as glutinous rice or sweet rice, and cooks up the same way, but it has all of the fiber and nutrients of regular brown rice. Its texture is great in saucy bowls, and I find it pleases most eaters who are not otherwise thrilled with finding brown rice on the menu. 
Gingered Coconut Brown Rice (page  93)
Sesame Brown Rice (page  133)
Taqueria-Style Rice (page  89)16
bowls!Buckwheat 
1 cup [170 g] buckwheat
2 cups [480 ml] water
1⁄2 tsp salt
Heat a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat. When the pan is hot, add the buck-
wheat and cook, stirring, until browned 
and toasted, about 5  minutes (skip this 
step if starting with toasted buckwheat). 
Add the water and salt and bring to a 
simmer. Cover, turn the heat to low, and 
cook until the buckwheat is tender, 15  to 
20 minutes. Remove the lid and simmer to 
cook off any remaining liquid, if necessary. 
Use immediately, or spread on a baking 
sheet to cool, then transfer to an airtight 
container and refrigerate for up to 3  days 
or freeze for up to 6  months.
Buckwheat is a whole grain (actually  
a whole psuedograin, since it is botanically 
a seed) from which only the tough outer 
hull has been removed. It  is sold as is or as 
roasted (or toasted) kernels, sometimes labeled “buckwheat groats” or “kasha.” The term 
kasha  is also applied to cooked toasted 
buckwheat, which can be prepared plain or as 
described on page  84. Bulgur 
1 cup [140 g] bulgur 
1⁄4 tsp salt
2 cups [480 ml] boiling water
In a medium heatproof bowl, combine 
the bulgur and salt. Add the water, cover, 
and let sit until the bulgur is tender and 
the water is absorbed, about 20  minutes. 
(Sometimes a batch absorbs less liquid; if 
the bulgur is tender, drain off any excess 
water.) Use immediately, or spread on a 
baking sheet to cool, then transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate for up to 
3 days or freeze for up to 6  months. 
Some cooks confuse bulgur and cracked 
wheat. Bulgur is whole wheat berries that have been steamed or parboiled, dried, and then cracked. It is sold in fine, medium, and coarse grinds. Cracked wheat, which is more 
difficult to find, is whole wheat  berries  that 
are cracked with no preliminary process-ing. (To confuse the cook even more, some packages containing bulgur are labeled 
“cracked  wheat bulgur.”) If you opt for 
cracked wheat  over bulgur, you will need to 
cook it like Freekeh (page  17). 
Browned Garlic Bulgur (page  149)
Seeded Bulgur Pilaf (page  91)17
bowl basicsFarro
1 cup [180 g] semipearled farro 
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil. Add 
the farro, adjust the heat to maintain a 
steady simmer, and cook until the farro 
is tender to the bite, about 20  minutes. 
Drain and use immediately, or spread on 
a baking sheet to cool, then transfer to an 
airtight container and refrigerate for up 
to 3 days or freeze for up to 6  months.
Farro is sold in three forms: whole grain, 
semipearled ( semipearlato ), and  pearled 
(perlato ). The inedible hull has been removed 
from the whole grain, the hull and part of the bran from the semipearled, and the hull and all of the bran from the pearled. The instruc-tions provided here are for semipearled farro, which takes less time to cook than the more nutritious whole grain, but which has more nutrients than pearled farro. 
Nutted Farro (page  115)Freekeh
1 cup [180 g] freekeh2 cups [480 ml] water
1⁄2 tsp salt
Heat a medium or large, heavy saucepan 
over medium-high heat. When the pan is 
hot, add the freekeh and cook, stirring or 
shaking the pan often, until the freekeh 
is toasted and fragrant, about 3  minutes. 
Add the water and salt and bring to a boil. Cover, turn the heat to low, and cook, 
undisturbed, until the liquid is absorbed 
and the freekeh is tender, 20  to 25  min-
utes. Remove from the heat, uncover, fluff with a fork, re-cover, and let sit for 
10 minutes before fluffing again and 
 serving. Or spread on a baking sheet to 
cool, then transfer to an airtight container, 
and refrigerate for up to 3  days or freeze 
for up to 6  months.
Rich in fiber and protein, freekeh is young 
green wheat kernels that have been roasted and then cracked. A nutritious whole grain, it has long been popular in some Middle Eastern cuisines. It is not as storage-friendly as many other grains, however, and I’ve come across many packages that have turned rancid. But if you luck into fresh freekeh, it brings a great nutty, slightly smoky flavor to a bowl. 
Lemony Freekeh (page  143)18
bowls!Polenta
4 cups [960 ml] water or broth
1⁄2 tsp salt (if using water)
1 cup [140 g] polenta
In a medium saucepan over high heat, 
bring the water or broth to a boil. Add 
the salt if using water, then as the liquid 
bubbles, add the polenta while whisking continuously. Adjust the heat to maintain a simmer and cook, stirring with a wooden 
spoon to keep the polenta from sticking 
to the bottom of the pan, until a thick porridge forms. It will be ready to eat in 
20 to 25  minutes. For a deeper flavor, 
cook the polenta for 30  to 40  minutes, 
but be sure to continue to scrape the polenta from the bottom of the pan as 
you stir. Or, you can be less traditional 
with pretty much the same results: after whisking in the polenta, turn the heat to 
low, cover, and stir every 5  to 10  minutes 
until thickened, 20  to 40  minutes total. 
Use immediately or transfer to an airtight container, let cool, cover, and refrigerate 
for up to 3  days.
Quinoa
1 cup [180 g] quinoa (see note) 
2 cups [480 ml] water or broth
1⁄4 tsp salt (if using water)
Quinoa must be rinsed or toasted before 
cooking to temper its bitterness. 
TO RINSE:  Pour the quinoa into a fine-
mesh sieve and agitate vigorously under 
cool running water for a  minute or two. In 
a medium saucepan over high heat, bring the water or broth to a boil. Add the qui-
noa and the salt if using water, cover, turn 
the heat to low, and cook, undisturbed, until the quinoa is tender and fluffy and 
the liquid is absorbed, about 20  minutes. 
TO TOAST:  Place a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, 
add the quinoa and cook, stirring fre-
quently, until toasted and fragrant, about 
3 minutes. Add the water or broth and the 
salt if using water and bring to a simmer, cover, turn the heat to low, and cook, 
undisturbed, until the quinoa is tender 
and fluffy and the liquid is absorbed, 
about 20  minutes. 
Use the quinoa immediately, or spread 
on a baking sheet to cool, then transfer to 
an airtight container and refrigerate for 
up to 3  days or freeze for up to 6  months. 
Three kinds of quinoa are available: white, 
which is the most common; red; and the much rarer black. All three can be cooked this way, with the red quinoa typically taking 
a few  minutes longer than the white and the 
black a little longer than the red. All three types have a natural coating called sapo-nin that gives the grain a bitter flavor. Even though some commercial quinoa is sold “pre-rinsed,” I advise you to treat any quinoa you buy just in case, either by rinsing it or toasting it before cooking. Both methods are included here and work equally well. 19
bowl basicsGarlicky Green Quinoa (page  99)
Mint Lemon Quinoa (page  78)
Red Lentil Quinoa Pilaf (page  96)
Saffron Quinoa (page 87)
Toasted Quinoa Pilaf (page  107)
Rye
1 cup [200 g] rye kernels
4 cups [960 ml] water2 tsp salt (optional)
Put the rye in a medium saucepan, pour in 
the water, and add the salt, if using. Place 
over high heat, bring to a boil, lower the 
heat to maintain a gentle simmer, and cook, adding more water as needed to keep the rye covered, until the kernels are 
tender to the bite, about 45  minutes. The 
rye will never turn truly soft, just chewable. Pour into a fine-mesh sieve to drain well. 
Use immediately, or spread on a baking 
sheet to cool, then transfer to an airtight 
container and refrigerate for up to 3  days 
or freeze for up to 6  months. 
Whole rye kernels, or berries, can be difficult 
to find, and once you do track them down, they take a while to cook. But you will be happy you made the search and took the time in the kitchen, as they are remarkably tooth-some and do not have as intense a rye flavor as you might expect.
Caraway Rye Pilaf (page  135)Soba Noodles 
12 oz [340 g] dried soba noodles 
Bring a pot of salted water to a boil. Add 
the noodles and cook according to pack-
age instructions (timing can vary greatly 
depending on the brand); they should be tender to the bite. Be careful not to over-cook, as they can turn to mush alarmingly 
fast. Drain into a colander and rinse well 
under cool running water, or they will clump together in a most unappealing fashion. Use immediately, or transfer to an 
airtight container and refrigerate for up to 
3 days. 
A classic of the Japanese kitchen, soba noo-
dles are made from buckwheat flour (some-times combined with wheat flour) and are traditionally served both hot and cold. They make a great base because they readily soak up the flavors of other ingredients and con-tribute a nutty, earthy taste to the bowl. 
Steel-Cut Oats
3 to 4 cups [720  to 960 ml] water 
1 cup [160 g] steel-cut oats
1⁄4 tsp salt
In a medium saucepan over high heat, 
bring the water to a boil, using the smaller 
amount of water if you want the oats to 
remain intact and chewier and the larger amount if you want porridge-like oats. Add the oats and salt, stir, and bring back 
to a boil. Lower the heat to keep the oats 
at a steady simmer and cook, stirring now 
and again, until the oats are tender, 20  to 
cont’d20
bowls!30 minutes. Use immediately, or transfer 
to an airtight container, let cool, cover, 
and refrigerate for up to 3  days or freeze 
for up to 6  months. 
VARIATION
For a greater depth of flavor, melt 1 Tbsp butter in the 
saucepan. Add the oats and cook, stirring, until fragrant 
and toasted, about 3  minutes. Add the water and salt, 
bring to a boil, and cook as directed.
Steel-cut oats have a heartier texture than 
old-fashioned rolled oats, which makes them my choice for my everyday bowl of break-fast oatmeal. But they are a tasty option for savory supper bowls, too. If you happen to come upon whole oats, they stand in nicely for barley, farro, or rye; cook them in boiling water until tender and then drain, as for the other grains.
White Rice 
(Long Grain, Medium Grain, or Short Grain)
2 cups [480 ml] water 1 cup [200 g] white rice
1⁄4 tsp salt
In a medium saucepan over high heat, 
bring the water to a boil. Add the rice 
and salt, cover, turn the heat to low, and 
cook, undisturbed, for 15  minutes. Remove 
the pan from the heat and let sit—leave 
the lid on!—for another 5  minutes. The 
grains will be tender and the liquid will 
be absorbed. Fluff with a fork and serve, 
or spread on a baking sheet to cool, 
then transfer to an airtight container and 
refrigerate for up to 3  days or freeze for 
up to 6  months.Wild Rice
1 cup [180 g] wild rice 
1⁄4 tsp salt (if steaming)
3 cups [720 ml] water (if steaming)
You can either boil or steam the rice. 
TO BOIL: Bring a large pot of salted water 
to a boil over high heat. Add the wild rice 
and cook until tender. The timing will vary 
depending on the age of the rice. Start 
testing at 30  minutes, but it will likely take 
at least 45  minutes. Drain the rice. 
TO STEAM: In a medium saucepan over 
high heat, combine the wild rice, salt, and 
water and bring to a boil. Cover, lower 
the heat to maintain a steady simmer, and cook until the rice is tender and the 
kernels pop open, 45  to 60  minutes. 
Uncover the rice and fluff it with a fork. If necessary, simmer, stirring occasion-
ally, to cook off any excess liquid, 5  to 
10 minutes  longer. 
Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight container, let cool, cover, and refriger-
ate for up to 3  days or freeze for up to 
6 months.
If you decide to boil the rice, the kernels will 
be intact and tender but slightly firm. If you opt to steam the rice, the kernels will “pop” open and be softer. 
Wild Rice Black Lentil Pilaf (page  129)21
bowl basicsLegumes, such as black beans, chickpeas, 
split peas, and lentils, add fiber, nutrients, 
flavor, and bulk to bowls. They work both as 
bases and, in smaller portions, on grain or 
vegetable bases. Canned beans are a quick 
and easy way to a filling bowl, and I turn to 
them fairly often. Always rinse them thor
-
oughly, however, as the canned liquid can 
really gum things up. But I also cook up big 
batches of dried beans and then freeze the 
cooked beans, immersed in their cooking 
liquid, in portions that I can grab and thaw 
easily. This gives me the convenience of 
canned beans but with the superior flavor and 
texture of beans cooked from scratch. Lentils 
and split peas are a way to get freshly cooked 
legumes ready in not too much  time.BEANS & LENTILS
22
bowls!Lentils
1 cup [200 g] lentils, rinsed
3 cups [720 ml] water 1 onion, halved (optional)2 garlic cloves (optional)1 bay leaf (optional)Salt
In a medium pot over high heat, combine 
the lentils and water and bring to a boil. 
Add the onion, garlic, and/or a bay leaf 
(if using). Lower the heat to maintain a lively simmer, cover partially, and cook, stirring now and again and adding more 
water if necessary, to keep the lentils 
covered, until tender, about 15  minutes for 
tiny black lentils and up to 30  minutes for 
large brown lentils. Remove from the heat, 
add salt to the water until it tastes salty, 
let sit for 5  minutes, drain, and discard 
the onion, garlic, and/or bay leaf if used. Alternatively, remove from the heat, drain 
the lentils, discard the onion, garlic, and/
or bay leaf if used, and season with salt. 
Use immediately, or let cool, transfer to 
an airtight container, and refrigerate for 
up to 1  week or freeze for up to 6  months. 
Brown, green (including the prized French 
Puy variety), and black (often labeled “beluga” because of their resemblance to cav-iar) lentils all cook up fairly quickly, making 
them perfect for adding to bowls on a  week -
night. Like many beans and grains, lentils can also be cooked in large batches and then refrigerated or frozen. Yellow, white, and red lentils are almost always sold hulled, and because they don’t have skins, their cooking time is shorter. They also tend to turn mushy 
in the blink of an eye, so it is best to  use them 
in soups or in grain and/or vegetable mix -
tures for adding  to bowls.
Herbed Lentils (page  81)
Red Lentil Quinoa Pilaf (page  96)
Wild Rice Black Lentil Pilaf (page  129)
Basic Dried Beans
1 lb [455 g] dried beans, rinsed and soaked 
(see note)
Salt
Drain the beans, put in a large pot, and 
cover with fresh water. Bring to a boil over 
high heat and skim off and discard any 
foam from the surface. Lower the heat to maintain a steady simmer and cook the beans until they are about three-quarters 
done. They should be slightly firm and 
smell like cooked beans. Add enough salt to make the water taste salty and continue to simmer until just done. They should 
be tender to the bite but not mushy. The 
overall timing will depend on the type and age of the beans.
To use some of the beans immediately, 
drain the needed portion. To store the 
beans, divide them among airtight con-
tainers, cover with their cooking liquid, 
and refrigerate for up to 1  week or freeze 
for up to 6  months.23
bowl basicsWhether you have chickpeas, white beans, 
kidney beans, black beans, cranberry beans—
you get the idea—all  dried beans are cooked 
the same way. They will cook up most evenly if you put them in a bowl, cover them gen-
erously with water, and let them soak over-
night. You can also quick soak the beans: put them in a pot, add water to cover, bring to a boil, cover the pot, and let sit off the heat for 
1 hour. The fresher your stash of dried beans, 
the less soaking time they will require before cooking and the less time they will take to 
cook. Most dried beans will be ready in 25  to 
45 minutes. 
Because dried beans must be soaked, take a relatively long time to cook, and freeze well, the yield here is greater than for other recipes, roughly eight servings rather than four. To store the beans, divide them among airtight containers, cover with their cooking 
liquid, and refrigerate for up to 1  week or 
freeze for up to 6  months.Pot Likker Beans
1 Tbsp olive oil1 onion, chopped2 carrots, peeled and chopped2 celery stalks, chopped
1 to 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 lb [455 g] dried beans (any kind), rinsed and  
soaked (see Basic Dried Beans note, left)1 bay leafSalt
In a large pot over medium-high heat, 
combine the olive oil, onion, carrot, celery, 
and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the vegetables soften a bit, about 
3 minutes. Drain the beans and add them 
to the pot along with the bay leaf. Add fresh water just to cover the beans and 
bring to a boil over high heat. Skim off 
any foam that forms on the surface, lower the heat to maintain a steady simmer, and cook, stirring now and again, until the 
beans are just barely tender to the bite. 
Stir in 1  tsp salt. Taste the liquid and add 
more salt if needed. Continue simmering 
until the beans are tender. The overall tim-
ing will depend on the type and age of the 
beans. Remove and discard the bay leaf.
Use some of the beans immediately (you 
may want to dole them out with a slotted spoon to keep the bowls from getting too liquidy). As with the other dried bean rec-
ipes, this one yields about eight servings. 
To store the beans, divide them among airtight containers, cover with their cook-
ing liquid, and refrigerate for up to 1  week 
or freeze for up to 6  months.24
bowls!Use some of the beans immediately (you 
may want to dole them out with a  slotted  
spoon to keep the bowls from getting 
too liquidy). As with the other dried bean 
 recipes, this one yields about eight serv -
ings. To store the beans, divide them 
among airtight containers, cover with their 
cooking liquid, and refrigerate for up to 
1 week or freeze for up to 6  months.
Browned Onion Split Peas (page  84) 
Cilantro Pinto Beans (page  89)
Dilled White Beans (page  121)
Falafel-esque Chickpeas (page  78)
Spiced Roasted Chickpeas (page  87)
Sautéed White Beans (page  112)
Soupy Chickpeas (page  91)Drunken Black Beans
2 Tbsp olive oil
2 onions, chopped2 garlic cloves, finely choppedTwo 12-fl oz [360-ml] bottles beer4 cups [960 ml] water1 lb [455 g] black beans (aka turtle beans), 
rinsed and soaked (see Basic Dried Beans 
note, page  23)
Salt
In a large pot over medium-high heat, 
warm the olive oil. Add the onions and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until they are 
soft, about 3  minutes. Add the garlic and  
cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1   minute.   
Pour in the beer and water, then drain  
the beans and add them to  the pot. Raise 
the heat to high, bring to a boil, lower the  
heat to maintain a steady simmer, and skim  
off any foam that forms  on the surface. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, until the beans 
are just tender, 30  to 40  minutes. Add 
enough salt to make  the water taste a bit 
salty, then remove the pot from the heat 
and let sit until the beans are fully tender, 
15 to 20  minutes. 25
bowl basicsPROTEINS
Meat, fish, chicken, tofu, and other protein-heavy 
foods that shine when in bite-size pieces tend to work 
best in bowls. Sometimes proteins turn up whole too, 
of course, such as a fried egg or a few shrimp. Here 
are some simple ways to cook up these staples to give 
bowls appetite-satisfying power. Most of these reci
-
pes, as with most of the others in this part, yield four 
modest servings.
26
bowls!EGGS OF VARIOUS SORTS
Eggs are perhaps the easiest way to turn 
a mishmash of things in a bowl into a meal. Somehow, no matter what crazy 
combination is underneath,  topping a  
bowl with a poached, fried, or soft-boiled egg brings the whole thing together (or is that just the luscious yolk getting all over 
everything?). 
Poached Eggs
2 Tbsp distilled white vinegar or fresh lemon 
juice per 1 cup [240 ml] water
4 eggs, at room temperature
Pour water to a depth of 2 in [5  cm] into 
a 10-in [25-cm] wide, shallow pan and 
add the vinegar (the acid will help the 
egg whites coagulate quickly, which in 
turn helps the eggs keep their shape while cooking). Place over medium-high heat and heat until bubbles are visible along 
the bottom and sides of the pan but don’t 
break on, or come to, the surface. If you have an instant-read thermometer, use it to hit the magical 180°F [82°C]. Adjust 
the heat to maintain this temperature. Lay 
a clean kitchen towel or layered paper towels nearby for draining the eggs.
Crack each egg into its own ramekin 
or small measuring cup. (Cracking the 
eggs into individual vessels allows you to 
remove any bits of shell, start again if a yolk breaks, and have more control when guiding an egg into the pan.) If you have 
poaching rings, go ahead and put them 
in the pan. (Want do-it-yourself poaching rings? You can use cleaned tuna fish cans 
with both the top and bottom removed.)
One at a time, and working quickly, hold 
each ramekin right at the surface of the 
water and gently slip the egg into the 
water (or into a ring, if using). Carefully spoon a little of the poaching water over each egg to help set the top. For poached 
eggs with set whites and warm, runny 
yolks, cook for 2  minutes. For set yolks, 
cook for 2  minutes longer.
Using a slotted spoon, gently lift each egg 
out of the poaching liquid. If an egg has 
stuck a bit to the pan, carefully work the 
edge of the spoon between the egg and the pan to loosen the egg before lifting it out. Set the eggs on the kitchen towel or 
paper towels to drain off as much liquid as 
possible. Pat their tops dry, if you like, and transfer to the bowls.
A poached egg brings a softness—almost a 
juiciness—to a bowl. I’ve found that some people are intimidated by poaching in gen-eral. If you are among them, it is well worth 
 getting over your reluctance for the many 
rewards poaching reaps. 27
bowl basicsSoft-Boiled Eggs
4 eggs
Bring a medium saucepan of water to a 
boil over high heat. (The water must be 
deep enough for the eggs to be com-
pletely submerged when they are added.) Using a slotted spoon, carefully lower the eggs, one at a time, into the boiling water, 
then adjust the heat to maintain a low boil 
or strong simmer.
Cook the eggs for 4  minutes for runny 
yolks and barely set whites, 5  minutes for 
runny yolks and set whites, 6  minutes for 
partially set yolks, or 7  minutes for soft-
set yolks. Using the spoon, lift the eggs out of the water. Carefully peel each egg 
under cool running water, pat them dry, 
and add them to your bowls.
Hard-Boiled Eggs
4 eggs
To minimize the possibility of the eggs cracking while they cook, you can prick 
a teeny hole in the end of each egg with 
a tack, though it isn’t necessary. Put the eggs in a pan large enough to hold them in a single layer without crowding. Add 
cool water to cover by 1 in [2.5  cm] and 
place over high heat. Bring to a boil (you want a real boil, with large bubbles coming 
up all over, rather than a simmer with a 
few bubbles along the edges). Cover the pan, turn off the heat, and let the eggs sit for exactly
 14 minutes. Set a timer in case 
you get distracted. While the eggs sit, prepare a large bowl of ice water. When the eggs are ready, drain them and transfer them to the ice 
water. To serve warm hard-boiled eggs, 
let them sit in the ice water just until you 
can  h andle them, then peel them. To 
serve them cold, leave them in the water until they are cool to the touch. You can 
then peel them and serve them, or you 
can refrigerate them unpeeled for up to 
2 days before  using. 
For even easier-to-peel eggs, save the hot 
cooking water, and after the eggs cool down in their ice-water bath, dip them back into 
the hot water for 10  to 20  seconds. I also find 
peeling them under cool running water works well if you want to serve warm hard-boiled eggs. Be sure to pat them dry before transfer-ring them to the bowls.
Fried Eggs
1 Tbsp olive or other cooking oil 4 eggs
1⁄4 tsp salt (optional)
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, warm the oil, swirling the pan to 
coat the bottom evenly. One at a time, 
crack the eggs and slip them into the hot pan. The pan is the correct temperature 
if the eggs bubble a bit when they hit the 
pan. Sprinkle with the salt, if you like, and cook, undisturbed, until the whites are set and the edges start to brown, 
about 2  minutes. Use a spatula to turn 
the eggs and cook on the other side for 
cont’d28
bowls!about 30  seconds for over-easy eggs, 
1 minute for over-medium eggs, and up 
to 2 minutes for fully cooked yolks. For 
sunny-side-up eggs, let the eggs cook 
without flipping until the whites are set 
and the yolks are done to your liking. 
Transfer the eggs directly to the bowls.
Scrambled Eggs
4 to 8 eggs
1 Tbsp water, milk, or heavy cream for each 
egg
1 to 2 Tbsp butter
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 tsp salt
Crack the eggs into a medium bowl, add 
the water, and whisk until the eggs are well 
blended. 
In a medium frying pan over medium heat, 
melt the butter, adjusting the amount 
according to how many eggs you are cooking. When the butter stops foam-ing, turn the heat to medium-low. Whisk 
the salt into the eggs, again adjusting 
the amount according to how many eggs you are cooking. Pour the eggs into the 
hot pan. 
For firmer eggs with large curds, let  
the eggs sit and cook until the bottom  
and edges have begun to solidify, about 
1 minute, then scrape and lift the edges  
of the cooked egg with a spatula and 
allow the uncooked portion to run under-
neath the lifted portion. Working around the edge of the pan, fold the cooked portions toward the center. Repeat the 
scraping, lifting, and folding until the  
eggs have formed curds. For softer eggs with small curds, stir or whisk the eggs in the pan until curds 
form but the eggs are still moist, 3  to 
4 minutes. Some people prefer to scram -
ble eggs over very low heat for a longer time for curds that are even more tender 
and fluffier. 
Transfer the eggs directly to the bowls.29
bowl basicsMANY WAYS OF TOFU
Tofu may be the easiest way to pack a 
protein punch into a bowl, if only because it can be sliced or diced and added raw. 
A little effort on the  c ooking front, how -
ever, will pay off big time in terms of flavor. The methods and recipes that 
follow assume the use of fresh block tofu 
packed in  water. Either firm or extra firm 
will work best. 
TIP: PRESSED TOFU
Pressing tofu gets rid of some of 
its liquid, making it a bit firmer and 
definitely less “wet.” Place the tofu on 
a rimmed plate or soup plate or in a baking dish, set a plate, pie dish, or 
small cutting board on the tofu, and 
place a small, heavy pot, a heavy can 
of food, or one or more other heavy 
objects on top. Make sure the weight is well balanced and is not so heavy 
that the tofu crumbles rather just 
releases excess liquid. Let the setup 
sit at room temperature for at least 
15 minutes or in the refrigerator for 
up to overnight. Discard any liquid 
that accumulates and use the tofu in 
the recipe at hand.TIP: BLANCHED TOFU
Like the idea of tofu but don’t care for 
its slightly sour taste? Select a sauce-
pan large enough to accommodate 
the tofu, fill the pan with water, and 
bring the water to a boil. Add the tofu 
and simmer for about 1  minute. Using 
a slotted spatula, carefully lift the tofu out of the water and place on a 
rimmed plate or soup plate. Press the tofu as directed in Pressed Tofu (see 
left). Any sourness will now be notice-
ably, wonderfully softened.
Baked Tofu
One 8-oz [230-g] block tofu, preferably 
pressed (see left)
1 recipe marinade of your choice (see 
page  31)
Use the tofu as a whole block, cut it into 
eight uniform slices, or cut it into sixteen 
bite-size cubes. Pat the tofu dry, transfer it 
to a bowl, and pour the marinade over it. 
Cover and refrigerate for at least 30  min-
utes or up to overnight. 
Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Gen-
erously oil a baking pan large enough to 
hold the tofu in a single layer.
Using a slotted utensil, lift the tofu out of 
the marinade, reserving the marinade, and 
place the tofu in a single layer in the pre-
pared pan. Bake for 15  minutes. Flip the 
tofu, pour on some of the reserved mar-inade, and bake until the tofu is heated 
through, firm, and starting to brown on 
the edges, about 15  minutes longer. Serve 
cont’d30
bowls!warm, transferring it directly to the bowls, 
or let cool (it will firm up even further) 
before adding to the bowls. If you cooked 
the block whole, slice or cut it as you like to add to bowls.
Grilled Tofu
One 8-oz [230-g] block tofu, pressed (see 
page  29)
1 recipe marinade of your choice (see 
page  31)
Pat the block of pressed tofu dry, put it in a bowl, and pour the marinade over it. 
Cover and refrigerate for at least 30  min-
utes or up to overnight. 
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill 
for direct-heat cooking over medium heat. 
(You should be able to hold your hand 
about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cooking 
grate for 4  to 5 seconds before you must 
pull it away.) Using a slotted spoon, lift the tofu out of 
the marinade, reserving the marinade. Oil the cooking grate. Place the tofu on the 
grate directly over the fire and brush with 
the marinade. Grill the tofu, basting occa-sionally with the marinade and turning once, until grill marks are visible on both 
sides and the tofu is hot, 5  to 8 minutes 
per side. Cut into slices or cubes and add to bowls, or let it cool and firm up before 
cutting and serving.The charred marks and smoky flavor of the 
grill add an extra oomph to mild tofu. To ensure the best result, start with a clean, well-oiled cooking grate.
Broiled Tofu
One 8-oz [230-g] block tofu, pressed (see 
page  29)
1 recipe marinade of your choice (see 
page  31)
Cut the tofu block into eight uniform 
slices or into sixteen bite-size cubes. Pat 
the tofu dry, transfer it to a bowl, and 
pour the marinade over it. Cover and 
refrigerate for at least 30  minutes or up 
to overnight. 
Set an oven rack about 4 in [10  cm] below 
the heating element and preheat the broiler. Generously oil a baking sheet.
Using a slotted utensil, lift the tofu out of 
the marinade and arrange in a single layer 
in the prepared pan. Discard the marinade. 
Slip the pan under the broiler and broil the tofu until it starts to brown, about 
4 minutes. Flip the tofu and broil until 
the tofu starts to brown on the second 
side, about 4  minutes longer. Serve warm, 
transferring it directly to the bowls, or let cool (it will firm up even further) before 
adding to the bowls. 
Black Pepper Tofu (page  93)31
bowl basicsTeriyaki Marinade
2 Tbsp soy sauce
2 Tbsp mirin2 tsp rice vinegar1 garlic clove, minced (optional)2 tsp peeled and finely grated fresh ginger 
(optional) 
1 Tbsp toasted sesame oil (if grilling the tofu)
In a small bowl, whisk together the soy 
sauce, mirin, vinegar, and the garlic and 
ginger, if using. If grilling the tofu, whisk 
in the sesame oil. 
BBQ Marinade
1⁄4 cup [65 g] ketchup
1 Tbsp cider vinegar
1 Tbsp brown sugar
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 tsp dry mustard
1 tsp warm water (if baking the tofu)2 Tbsp canola oil (if grilling the tofu)
In a small bowl, whisk together the 
ketchup, vinegar, sugar, pepper, and mus-
tard, mixing well to dissolve the sugar. If 
baking the tofu, whisk in the warm water; if grilling the tofu, whisk in the canola oil. Peanut Marinade
2 Tbsp soy sauce
2 Tbsp brown sugar1 Tbsp toasted sesame oil1 Tbsp peanut butter
1⁄2 tsp Sriracha sauce or garlic chile paste
1 Tbsp peanut oil (if grilling the tofu)
In a small bowl, whisk together the soy 
sauce, sugar, sesame oil, peanut butter, 
and Sriracha sauce, mixing well to dissolve 
the sugar. If grilling the tofu, whisk in the peanut oil.
Honey-Garlic Marinade
2 Tbsp honey
1 Tbsp soy sauce1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp canola oil (if grilling the tofu)
In a small bowl, whisk together the honey, 
soy sauce, garlic, and pepper. If grilling 
the tofu, whisk in the canola oil.
Cilantro-Lime Marinade
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] fresh lime juice
2 Tbsp minced fresh cilantro
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp cayenne pepper
1 Tbsp olive oil (if grilling the tofu)
In a small bowl, whisk together the lime 
juice, cilantro, garlic, salt, and cayenne. If 
grilling the tofu, whisk in the olive oil. 32
bowls!SO MANY FISH & SUCH IN THE SEA
One of the great things about bowl-based 
meals is how they elevate otherwise humble ingredients. In the world of fish, 
that can mean canned tuna or sardines (I 
always look for olive oil–packed versions for their rich flavor) or flaked bits of smoked fish, which deliver big flavor for a small amount. Even fish left over from last night’s dinner, flaked and topped with 
some sauce, can make a simple bowl taste 
fancy. A modest amount of more costly shellfish, like shrimp and scallops, can also be strategically employed to bring both flavor and a protein to otherwise 
humble creations. Each of the following 
recipes will dress four bowls modestly. 
Grilled Fish
One 12-oz [340-g] fish fillet, or four 3-oz 
[85-g] fillets
Olive oil for brushingSalt
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill 
for direct-heat cooking over medium heat. 
(You should be able to hold your hand 
about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cooking 
grate for 4  to 5 seconds before you must 
pull it away.) Brush the fish on both sides with olive oil 
and then sprinkle both sides with salt. Oil the cooking grate. If the skin is still on the  
fish, place the fish, skin-side down, on 
the grate directly over the fire. If the fish 
has delicate flesh, place it in a fish basket on the grate, or oil a piece of aluminum 
foil, poke some holes in the foil, and then 
place the fish on the foil on the grate. Cover and cook until the underside is 
grill marked, 4  to 5 minutes. If the fish 
is skinless, flip it, re-cover, and continue 
to cook until it just flakes in the center 
when pierced with a knife, 4  to 5 minutes 
 longer  for a piece 1 inch [2.5  cm] thick. 
If the skin is intact, just leave the fish 
 cooking skin-side down in the covered 
grill for the least-fish-stuck-to-the-grill result. (A good general rule is to allow 
10 minutes for each 1 in [2.5  cm] of thick -
ness, though it is always best to use your 
eyes rather than following the clock.) 
If grilling small fillet portions, transfer 
them directly to the bowls. If grilling a 
single large fillet, cut into pieces before transferring to the bowls.
Here’s the great thing about grilled fish: the 
fishy smell stays outside. The key to grilling fish is to start with a clean, well-oiled cooking grate. That means you need to scrub the grate clean, oil it, heat the grill, and then oil the grate again.33
bowl basicsPan-Seared Fish
One 12-oz [340-g] fish fillet, or four 3-oz 
[85-g] skinless fillets 
SaltOlive oil for cooking
Season the fish on both sides with salt. 
Heat a large frying pan over medium heat. 
When the pan is hot, add enough olive 
oil to coat the bottom generously (about 
1 Tbsp oil for a 10-in [25-cm] pan), swirl -
ing the pan to coat evenly. When the oil 
is hot, set the fish in the pan and let it 
sizzle and cook until lightly browned on 
the underside, 4  to 5 minutes. Using a 
spatula (use a large one if turning a whole fillet), turn the fish over and cook until it 
is browned on the second side and just 
flakes in the center when pierced with 
a knife, 4  to 5 minutes longer. (A good 
general rule is to allow 10  minutes for 
each 1 in [2.5  cm] of thickness, though it 
is always best to use your eyes rather than following the clock.)
If cooking small fillet portions, transfer 
them directly to the bowls. If cooking a 
single large fillet, cut into pieces before 
transferring to the bowls.
You can add flavor to the fish by mixing the 
salt with black or cayenne pepper, dried 
herbs, or a favorite spice  rub.Seared Tuna
12 to 16 oz [340  to 455 g] fresh tuna
¼ tsp salt1 tsp olive oil
Sprinkle the tuna on both sides with the 
salt. In a medium frying pan over medium-  
high heat, warm the olive oil, swirling the pan to coat the bottom evenly. When the oil is hot, set the tuna in the pan; it should sizzle immediately. Let the tuna cook until 
a light brown crust forms on the under-
side, 1  to 2 minutes. Flip the tuna and cook 
until a light brown crust forms on the 
second side, 1  to 2 minutes longer. This 
timing will result in rare tuna, still red in 
the center. For medium tuna, cook for 2  to 
3 minutes longer on each  side. 
Transfer the tuna to a cutting board 
and let rest for a few  minutes, then cut 
into slices against the grain and transfer 
directly to the bowls. 
Oil-Poached Tuna 
12 to 16 oz [325  to 450 g] fresh tuna
½ tsp salt
1 cup [240 ml] olive oil 3 garlic cloves6 black peppercorns1 bay leaf3 strips orange or lemon zest1 dried hot chile (optional)
Season the tuna on both sides with the 
salt and set aside. In a saucepan just large 
enough to hold the fish in a single layer, 
combine the olive oil, garlic, peppercorns, 
cont’d34
bowls!bay leaf, orange zest, and chile (if using). 
Place over medium-low heat and warm 
the oil just until bubbles form on the sides 
of the pan. Add the tuna and adjust the heat to maintain those few bubbles on the sides of the pan. Cook until the tuna 
is opaque at the center when pierced with 
the tip of knife, about 8  minutes for a 
piece 1 in [2.5 cm] thick. 
Have ready a cooling rack set on a 
rimmed baking sheet. When the tuna is ready, using a large spatula or shallow 
slotted spoon, lift the tuna out of the oil 
and onto the cooling rack to drain briefly. Transfer the tuna to a cutting board, cut into slices against the grain, and transfer 
directly to the bowls. Or, use two forks to 
flake the tuna into large chunks and then transfer to the bowls. 
Grilled Shrimp
2 lb [910 g] shell-on shrimp 
2 Tbsp butter, melted, or olive oil
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill for 
direct-heat cooking over medium-high 
heat. (You should be able to hold your 
hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cook -
ing grate for 3  to 4 seconds before you 
must pull it away.) 
Thread the shrimp onto metal skewers or 
place in a grilling basket. Oil the cooking grate. Brush the shrimp on all sides with 
some of the butter and set on the cooking 
grate directly over the fire. Cook until the 
shrimp start to turn pink, about 1  minute. 
Brush with more of the butter, then flip the shrimp and cook until just cooked 
through; this usually takes 1  to 2 minutes, 
depending on the size of the shrimp. Be careful not to overcook, as the shrimp can 
get very tough. Transfer to a plate and 
brush with any remaining butter before adding to bowls.
VARIATIONS
To make lemon shrimp, combine the butter with the 
finely grated zest of 1 lemon and 2 tsp fresh lemon juice. 
To make ginger shrimp, combine the butter with 2 tsp 
peeled and finely grated fresh ginger.
Roasted Shrimp
2 lb [910 g] peeled and deveined shrimp
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. 
Toss the shrimp with the salt and pepper 
and spread in a single layer on a baking 
sheet. Roast until cooked through, 5  to 
10 minutes, depending on the size of the 
shrimp. Transfer directly to the bowls.
Pickled Shrimp
4 cups [960 ml] water 
1 Tbsp plus 1 tsp salt1 lb [455 g] large (21/25 count) peeled and 
deveined shrimp
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] white wine vinegar
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] fresh lemon juice
1 tsp sugar
Combine the water and the 1  Tbsp salt in a 
medium saucepan and bring to a boil over 
high heat. While the water is heating, fill 
a large bowl with ice water and set it near 35
bowl basicsthe stove. When the water is at a rolling 
boil, remove the pan from the heat and 
add the shrimp. Leave the shrimp in the 
water until they turn pink and opaque, 
about 5  minutes. Using a slotted spoon, 
transfer the just-cooked shrimp to the ice water. Reserve ½ cup [120 ml] of the 
shrimp cooking water. 
Arrange a double or triple layer of paper 
towels on a large platter. When the shrimp 
are cool, transfer them to the paper tow-els and turn them as needed to pat dry. In a medium bowl, combine the vinegar, 
lemon juice, sugar, and the remaining 1  tsp 
salt, whisking to dissolve the sugar and salt. Whisk in the reserved shrimp cooking 
water. Set the bowl in the ice-water bath 
and leave until cold. Add the shrimp and stir to coat with the marinade. Cover and 
refrigerate the shrimp for at least 1  hour 
or up to 2  days. Just before serving, toss 
thoroughly to coat evenly, then transfer to the bowls. 
VARIATION
To spice up the shrimp, add 1 fresh hot chile, finely 
chopped, to the marinade.
Poached Shrimp
2 lb [910 g] peeled and deveined shrimp
2 tsp salt
In a wide medium saucepan or pot, com-
bine the shrimp with water to cover. Using 
a slotted spoon, lift the shrimp out of 
the pan and set aside. Bring the water in the pan to a simmer over medium heat. Add the salt and stir to dissolve. Add the 
shrimp, cover, and remove from the heat. Let sit for 5  minutes, then drain. Transfer 
the warm shrimp directly to the bowls, or 
hold the shrimp under cool running water 
until cold, then store in an airtight con-
tainer in the refrigerator for up to 2  days 
and use chilled.
Seared Scallops
1 lb [455 g] sea scallops 
1 Tbsp butter1 Tbsp olive oilSalt
Check the scallops, and if they look at 
all gritty, rinse them. Pat the scallops 
thoroughly dry with paper towels. (Dry-
ing them will help them to sear better.) In a large frying pan over medium-high heat, melt the butter. When the butter 
stops foaming, add the olive oil. When 
the oil shimmers, add the scallops in a single layer, spacing them evenly apart. As they cook, sprinkle them lightly with 
salt. Cook until browned on the under-
side, 2  to 4 minutes. Using a spatula, 
flip the  scallops and c ook until browned 
on the second side and just barely cooked 
through, 2  to 4 minutes longer. Transfer 
directly to the bowls.
Ceviche (page 101)
Maple-Glazed Salmon (page  104)
Marinated Mussels (page  99)
Smoked Paprika Shrimp (page  96)36
bowls!BIRDS & MEATS
Bowls can be an excellent way to focus on 
plant-based foods, but if you are a carni-vore, there’s plenty of room for meat or 
poultry in the bowl, too. Shredded meat 
from a rotisserie chicken or a home-roasted bird and chopped turkey breast bought at the deli counter are two of the easiest ways to pack some protein into a bowl. But quickly cooking ground meat 
is easy, too, as are kebabs and meatballs 
and shredded or chopped cooked meat. Bowls may be, hands down, absolutely the best use of small amounts of leftovers! Bite-size is, as is almost always the case 
in the world of bowl cuisine, the key. Each 
recipe here delivers a nice amount of bird or meat protein for four bowls, with the exception of the whole roast chicken, which will vary depending on the size of the bird. Roast Chicken
One 4-lb [1.8-kg] whole chicken 
2 tsp salt2 Tbsp olive oil or butter1 cup [240 ml] dry white wine or chicken 
broth
Pat the chicken dry with paper towels. 
Using your fingers, carefully loosen the 
skin from the meat on the breasts and 
thighs. Rub the salt all over the chicken, including under the loosened skin. Set the chicken breast-side up in a roasting 
pan and refrigerate, uncovered, for up to 
36 hours. (Leaving it uncovered will lead 
to a crispier skin once it’s roasted, but 
you can cover it if you like.)
Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. 
While the oven heats, set the chicken out 
at room temperature to take off the chill. 
Rub the chicken breasts and the tops 
of the thighs with the olive oil. Pour the 
wine into the bottom of the pan. Roast the chicken, undisturbed, until browned, 
about  45 minutes.
Lower the oven temperature to 325°F [165°C], spoon some pan juices over the 
chicken, and continue roasting until the 
meat pulls away from the ends of the drumsticks and the thigh joints feel loose and move easily when you wiggle the end 
of a drumstick, about 30  minutes longer. 
(Cooking times for chicken vary greatly depending on size, temperature going into 
the oven, and precision of oven tempera-
ture, so go by how the chicken looks and feels, not the clock.) 37
bowl basicsRemove from the oven and let the chicken 
rest in the pan for about 10  minutes. 
Transfer the chicken to a large cutting 
board and cut into smallish pieces to add 
to the bowls. Or, for shredded chicken, let 
the bird cool completely, remove the skin and pull the meat off the bones with your fingers or a fork. If you have more chicken 
than you need for a single meal, pack the 
leftover pieces or meat in an airtight con-
tainer and refrigerate for up to 3  days.
NOTE: You can adjust this recipe for different-  
size chickens. Use ½ tsp salt for each 1 lb 
[455  g] chicken. The butter or oil and the 
wine or broth amounts can remain the same. 
Plan on 18  to 20  minutes per pound. 
VARIATIONS
Lemon Chicken  Halve 1 lemon, squeeze the juice from 
the halves all over the bird, and then stuff the spent 
halves into the cavity.
Garlic Chicken  Mince 1  to 2 garlic cloves and rub all 
over the chicken and/or stuff the cavity with 1 head 
garlic, separated into cloves and peeled.
Herb Chicken  Carefully tuck a handful of fresh herbs 
(thyme or parsley is a good choice) under the skin. Add 
more to the cavity, if you like. 
Cayenne Chicken  Mix ¼ to ½ tsp cayenne pepper with 
the salt to add a bit of spicy heat.Paprika Chicken Mix about 1 tsp paprika with the salt. 
Use smoked paprika, if possible, for a delightful light 
smoky flavor.Roast Chicken Thighs and/or Breasts
2 bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs  
and/or  breasts 
1 tsp salt
Olive oil or melted butter for brushing
Preheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Oil a 
baking pan just large enough to accom-
modate the chicken pieces in a single 
layer without touching. 
Pat the chicken pieces dry with paper 
 towels and put them in the prepared 
 baking pan. Sprinkle the chicken evenly 
on all sides with the salt and let sit for 
30 minutes. Brush or rub the pieces with 
the olive oil and then arrange them, skin-
side up, in the pan. 
Roast until well browned and cooked 
through when tested with a knife, 20  to 
30 minutes. Remove the chicken from 
the oven and let cool until it can be han -
dled, then remove the skin, pull the meat 
off the bones, and add the meat directly 
to the bowls. 
Chicken thighs will likely need more time than 
breasts to cook through, but you can still cook them together and just remove the breasts from the oven when they’re done.
Mirin-Braised Chicken Thighs (page  123)
Paprika-Braised Chicken (page  121)
Yogurt-Marinated Chicken (page  110)38
bowls!Basic Ground Meat
1 tsp olive or cooking oil 
1 small onion, minced
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 lb [455 g] ground beef, chicken, lamb, pork, 
or turkey
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, warm the oil. Add the onion and 
salt and cook, stirring, until the onion is 
soft, about 3  minutes. Add the meat and 
cook, stirring now and again and breaking 
up the meat as it cooks, until the meat 
is browned and cooked through, about 
5 minutes. If the cooked meat seems too 
fatty, spoon out and discard the excess fat 
or drain the meat on a doubled or tripled 
layer of paper towels before adding it to 
the bowls.
VARIATIONS
Add 1  to 2 garlic cloves, finely chopped, with the onion.
Throw in a small handful of chopped fresh herbs (such 
as parsley, mint, or cilantro) just as the meat is done 
cooking. 
Taco it up by adding 1 tsp ground cumin and ¼  tsp 
cayenne pepper just before you add the meat to the  pan.
Sprinkle 1 Tbsp fresh lime juice over the meat just before 
removing from the heat. 
Use 2  to 3 green onions, white and green parts, minced, 
in place of the onion. 
Add 1 tsp peeled and finely grated fresh ginger with the 
onion and use 1 tsp soy sauce in place of the salt. 
Spiced Ground Turkey (page  117)Meatballs
1 lb [455 g] ground beef, chicken, lamb, pork, 
or turkey 
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 small onion or 1 shallot, minced
1⁄4 cup [10 g] chopped fresh herbs (such as 
parsley, thyme, or dill) 
Olive or other cooking oil for cooking
Put the meat in a large bowl and sprinkle 
with the salt, onion, and herbs. Use your 
hands to pull the meat into small bits 
and mix with the seasonings. Divide into eight, twelve, or sixteen equal portions, roll each portion into a ball, and set the 
balls on a large plate or baking sheet. 
Cover and chill for at least 30  minutes 
(chilled meatballs hold their shape better 
as they  cook).
Have ready a large platter lined with a 
double or triple layer of paper towels. 
Place a large frying pan or wide, shal-
low saucepan over medium-high heat. Add enough oil to coat the bottom of the pan evenly. When the oil is hot, add 
the meatballs and cook, turning them as 
they brown on each side, until browned 
all over  and cooked through, 8  to 12  min-
utes total, depending on their size. Using 
a slotted spoon, transfer the meatballs 
to the towel-lined platter to drain briefly before plopping them into bowls.
Minted Meatballs (page  143)39
bowl basicsMeat or Chicken on Skewers
1 lb [455 g] boneless beef, lamb, pork, or 
chicken, cut into large bite-size pieces
1⁄2 tsp salt
Olive oil for tossing
Put the meat in a bowl and sprinkle with 
the salt. Toss to distribute the salt evenly. 
Cover and refrigerate for at least 10  min-
utes or up to overnight. Drizzle with a glug 
or two of olive oil, toss to coat the meat 
evenly, and thread onto four skewers. (If using bamboo, rather than metal, skewers, be sure to soak them in water for about 
30 minutes before sliding on the  meat.) 
NOTE:  The following instructions assume 
you want the meat cooked through. If you 
are cooking beef or lamb and would prefer it 
cooked less, shorten the cooking time by 1  to 
2 minutes on each side.
TO GRILL:  Prepare a fire in a charcoal or 
gas grill for direct-heat cooking over high 
heat. (You should be able to hold your 
hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cook -
ing grate for 1  to 2 seconds before you 
must pull it away.) Oil the cooking grate. 
Set the oiled skewers on the grate directly 
over the fire and cook until browned on 
the underside, 4  to 5 minutes. Flip the 
skewers and grill until browned on the 
second side and cooked through, 4  to 
5 minutes longer. 
TO PANFRY:  Place a large frying pan (large 
enough to hold the skewers) over high heat. Lightly coat the bottom of the pan 
with olive oil. When the oil is hot, add the skewers to the pan, lower the heat to medium-high, and cook until the meat is 
browned on the underside, 4  to 5 minutes. 
Flip the skewers and cook until browned on the second side and cooked through, 
4 to 5 minutes longer.
TO BROIL:  Set an oven rack about 4 in 
[10 cm] from the heating element and 
preheat the broiler. Set the skewers on a broiler pan or baking sheet. Slip the pan 
under the broiler and broil, watching care-
fully to avoid burning, until browned, 4  to 
5 minutes. Flip the skewers and broil until 
browned on the second side and cooked 
through, 4  to 5 minutes longer.
However you cook the skewers, let them 
rest for about 10  minutes before serving, 
then either place a skewer in each bowl 
or slide the pieces off the skewers into 
the bowls. 
VARIATIONS
Add mushrooms, chunks of zucchini, cherry tomatoes,  
or other quick-cooking vegetables to the skewers.
Throw in a small handful of one or more chopped fresh 
herbs (such as rosemary or thyme) along with the salt.
Sprinkle the meat with about ½ tsp ground spice or 
a mixture (such as cumin, coriander, paprika and/or 
cayenne pepper) with the salt. 
Marinate the meat before skewering. Any of the tofu 
marinades on page 31 can be used here. 40
bowls!Shredded Meat 
(aka The Best Ever Use of Leftovers!) 
2 to 4 oz [55  to 115 g] cooked meat of any 
kind per person
Use two forks (or your fingers) to pull the 
meat into shreds. Add to the bowls.
If you have more leftover meat than you can 
use in a night or two, you can shred it and freeze it in an airtight container for up to 
2 months. Freezing will dry the meat out a bit, 
however, so be sure to reheat it with a little broth to liven it up.
Soupy Braised Pork (page  127)
Steak
12 to 16 oz [340  to 455 g] steak (filet 
mignon, sirloin, or New York strip), about  
1 in [2.5  cm] thick 
1⁄4 tsp salt
Freshly ground black pepper (optional)Olive or other cooking oil for brushing
Sprinkle the steak on both sides with the 
salt and let it sit at room temperature 
for 15  to 30  minutes. You want the salt 
to season the meat, and you want the meat to come close to room temperature 
before you cook it. Season with pepper, 
if you like, and then brush all over with a little oil.
TO GRILL:  Prepare a fire in a charcoal or 
gas grill for direct-heat cooking over 
high heat. (You should be able to hold 
your hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the 
cooking grate for 1  to 2 seconds before 
you must pull it away.) Oil the cooking grate. Set the steak on the grate directly 
over the fire and cook until grill marks 
form on the underside, 4  to 5 minutes for 
rare, 6  to 7 minutes for medium, and 8  to 
9 minutes for well-done. Flip the steak 
and cook until grill marks form on the second side and the steak is done to your 
liking, 4  to 5 minutes longer for rare, 6  to 
7 minutes longer for medium, and 8  to 
9 minutes longer for well-done. 
TO PANFRY:  Heat a large frying pan over 
high heat. Lightly coat the bottom of the 
pan with oil. When the oil is hot, add the 
steak, lower the heat to medium-high, and cook until browned on the underside, 
4 to 5 minutes for rare, 6 to 7 minutes 
for medium, and 8 to 9 minutes for 
well-  done. Flip the steak and c ook until 
browned on the second side and done to 
your liking, 4  to 5 minutes longer for rare, 
6 to 7 minutes longer for medium, and 
8 to 9 minutes longer for well-done.
TO BROIL:  Set an oven rack about 4 in 
[10 cm] from the heating element and 
preheat the broiler. Set the steak on a broiler pan or baking sheet. Slip the pan 
under the broiler and broil, watching 
carefully to avoid burning, until browned, 
4 to 5 minutes for rare, 6  to 7 minutes 
for medium, and 8  to 9 minutes for well-
done. Flip the steak and broil on the sec-ond side until browned and done to your 
liking, 4  to 5 minutes longer for rare, 6  to 
7 minutes longer for medium, and 8  to 
9 minutes longer for well-done. 41
bowl basicsHowever you cook the steak, let it rest for 
10 to 15  minutes before you slice it against 
the grain and add it to the bowls. 
Eating by the bowl lets you serve less meat 
per person, making items like a good steak more affordable. As with the other meats in 
this book, I usually plan on 3  to 4 oz [85  to 
115 g] per serving, which means a single 1-lb [455-g] steak will easily feed four. 
Korean-Spiced Steak (page  139) 42
bowls!
FOR THE LOVE OF VEGETABLES
Getting lots of vegetables into your diet is a 
great reason to turn to bowls. The rule here is that there is no rule. Raw vegetables that are chopped, sliced, or shredded into bite-size pieces are the way to go, but so are freshly prepared or leftover cooked vegetables of all sorts. Mixing raw, roasted, grilled, and steamed vegetables adds color, nutrition, taste, and texture, so use your imagination—and what’s in your refrigerator—to come up with healthful and delicious combinations. 43
bowl basics
TIP: TO SLICE OR TO CHOP RAW VEGETABLES
If you’re using raw vegetables, the big 
question will be whether to slice or 
chop. Slicing tends to yield vegetables 
that are crisp, while chopped vege-
tables are typically crunchy, so it’s all 
about which texture you want to add.
Consider these raw vegetables for 
your bowls: bell peppers, broccoli, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, corn 
kernels (yes, raw!), cucumber, fennel, 
kale, lettuces of all sorts, radishes, 
spinach, sweet peas, tomatoes, turnips 
(baby turnips are wonderful raw), zucchini and other summer squashes.
I tend to leave the peel, or skin, on if 
it is at all edible, preferring to scrub 
vegetables clean rather than peel them when I’m eating them raw. But 
whether to peel or not is, of course, 
up to you. (I do always peel raw broc-
coli stems, as the tough peel conceals 
a wonderful tender and sweet core.)Roasted Vegetables
4 cups [455  to 560 g] chopped vegetables 
(see note) 
Olive oil for drizzlingSalt
Preheat the oven to between 350°F 
[180°C] and 425°F [220°C]. I offer a 
range because vegetables will roast up 
browner and faster at a higher tempera-ture, but they will roast up tender and 
lovely anywhere between those two  points.
Put the vegetables in a roasting pan or a large baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, 
and toss to coat evenly. Spread the pieces 
in a single layer, sprinkle with salt, and roast until tender and browned. This will 
take anywhere from 15  minutes for aspar -
agus or cherry tomatoes up to 30  minutes 
for beets and other root vegetables and many winter squashes, depending on how 
browned you want them, how hot the oven 
is, and how tender you want them. Trans-fer directly to the bowls. Serve warm or at room temperature.
Consider these vegetables for roasting: 
asparagus, beets, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage (in wedges), carrots, cauliflower, chiles, fennel, green beans, kale, mushrooms, okra, onions, parsnips, potatoes, rutabagas, 
sweet potatoes, tomatoes,  turnips , winter 
squashes (including sweet pumpkins), zuc-
chini and other summer  squashes.44
bowls!Steamed Vegetables
4 cups [455  to 560 g] vegetables, in slices, 
chunks, or florets (see note)
WITH A STEAM BASKET OR COLANDER:  Select 
a pot into which the basket or colander 
will fit. Pour water into the pot to a depth 
of 1 in [2.5  cm] (the water must not touch 
the bottom of the basket or colander once 
it is added). Bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Put the vegetables in the basket 
or colander (if steaming more than one type of vegetable, keep like with like so you can take out the ones that are done 
first), set it over the boiling water, cover, 
and cook. 
WITHOUT A STEAM BASKET OR COLANDER:  
Pour water to a depth of ¼  in [6 mm] into 
a large frying pan and bring the water to a boil over high heat. Add the vegetables, 
cover, turn the heat to low, and cook.
With either cooking method, cook the 
vegetables until they are crisp-tender or 
tender to the bite, as you prefer. Start 
checking after 3  minutes. The timing 
varies greatly depending on the type of vegetable, so follow your palate and not 
the clock. Transfer the vegetables directly 
to the bowls. Serve warm or at room temperature. 
Consider these vegetables for steaming: 
asparagus, beets, broccoli, carrots, cauli-flower, edamame, fiddlehead ferns, green beans, small or new potatoes, snap peas. Grilled Vegetables
Vegetable or vegetables of choice, whole (if 
small) or cut in half, into quarters, or even into slices for larger vegetables (see note) 
Olive oil for brushingSalt
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill for 
direct-heat cooking over medium-high 
heat. (You should be able to hold your 
hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cook -
ing grate for 3  to 4 seconds before you 
must pull it away.) Oil the cooking grate. 
Spread the vegetables on a baking sheet 
or large platter. Brush or drizzle evenly with olive oil and sprinkle with salt. Set the 
vegetables on the cooking grate directly 
over the fire and cook, undisturbed, until grill marks form on the underside, 
4 t o 8  minutes, depending on the vege -
table. Flip and cook until they have grill 
marks on the second side and are ten-
der, 4  to 8 minutes longer, depending 
on the vegetable. Return the vegetables 
to the baking sheet or platter and cut 
into bite-size slices or chunks before 
adding to the bowls. Serve warm or at 
room  temperature. 
Consider these vegetables for grilling: aspar-
agus, beets, Brussels sprouts (seriously!), eggplant, green beans, mushrooms, okra, potatoes, spring onions, tomatoes, zucchini, winter squashes (including sweet pumpkins).45
bowl basicsRoot Vegetable Hash
About 2 lb [910 g] root vegetables
2 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
1⁄2 tsp salt
Peel the vegetables and grate them on the 
large holes of a box grater. Rinse in cool 
water, drain, and squeeze dry with your 
hands or roll up in a kitchen towel or lay-ers of paper towels and squeeze out any excess moisture. 
Heat the oil in a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat. Add the vegetables, 
spreading them evenly over the bottom of 
the pan, cover, lower the heat to medium, and cook until browned on the underside, 
about 5  minutes. Uncover and sprinkle 
evenly with the salt. Using a spatula, turn the vegetables over and continue to cook, 
uncovered, until browned on the second 
side and tender, about 5  minutes longer. 
Transfer directly to the bowls.
This simple hash is traditionally made with 
potatoes, but other root vegetables work just as well (sweet potatoes!), particularly in combination with each other, such as parsnips and beets, or celery root and turnips. Both 
single-vegetable hashes and mixed-  vegetable  
hashes make especially tasty nongrain bases for simple bowls.Mashed Cauliflower
2 Tbsp butter1 garlic clove, minced1 head cauliflower, florets and stems chopped
1⁄2 tsp fine sea salt
1⁄3 cup [80 ml] water
3 Tbsp heavy cream (optional)
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, melt the butter. Add the garlic and 
cook, stirring as it sizzles, until fragrant, 
about 30  seconds. Add the cauliflower 
and stir to coat with the butter. Sprinkle 
with the salt and add the water. Cover, 
turn the heat to medium-low, and cook 
until the cauliflower is so tender you 
can mash it easily with a fork, 20  to 
30 minutes.
Uncover, add the cream, if using, and stir to coat the cauliflower evenly with the 
cream. The cauliflower should now be so 
tender that even stirring it lightly causes it to break up a bit. Cook off any excess liq-uid in the pan, then remove from the heat.
Using a large fork or a potato masher, 
mash the cauliflower. I tend to like mine 
pretty chunky; for a smoother mash, you 
can whirl it in a food processor. Transfer the cauliflower directly to the bowls. 46
bowls!Mashed Potatoes 
2 lb [910 g] russet or Yukon Gold potatoes 
Salt 
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] whole milk, half-and-half, 
or heavy cream (or make it tangy with 
buttermilk, plain yogurt, or sour cream)
2 to 3 Tbsp butter
Put the potatoes in a large pot, add water 
to cover, and place over high heat. Bring 
to a boil, add 1  Tbsp salt, adjust the heat 
to maintain a steady low boil, and cook until the potatoes are tender all the way 
through when pierced with a knife. Start 
checking after about 20  minutes; large 
potatoes could take up to 45  minutes. The 
knife should meet with no resistance. This 
is a case where a bit overcooked is better 
than a bit undercooked. 
Meanwhile, in a small saucepan over low 
heat, warm the milk until steaming hot (or 
put in a microwave-safe bowl and heat in a microwave). Pour the hot milk into a large bowl. Cut up the butter into small 
pieces and add the pieces to the milk.
Drain the potatoes, return them to the hot 
pot, place over low heat, and heat, shaking 
the pot frequently, to dry the potatoes a bit. Less moisture in the potatoes will result in fluffier mashed potatoes.If you are lucky enough to own a ricer, position it over the bowl holding the milk and butter and pass the potatoes, one at a time, through the ricer into the bowl. 
(If the potatoes are large, you may need 
to cut them into pieces to fit them in the ricer.) Once all of the potatoes are in the 
bowl, stir or whisk together the potatoes, 
milk, and butter until smooth. If you don’t have a ricer, put on an oven mitt, grab a potato with the gloved hand, and with a 
paring knife in your other hand, scrape off 
the skin. Drop the peeled potato into the bowl and repeat with the remaining pota-toes. Use a potato masher or a large fork 
to mash the potatoes with the milk and 
butter until as smooth as possible. Season with salt and transfer directly to the bowls. 
Other potato-like root vegetables, such 
as sweet potatoes and turnips, can also be mashed. They tend to cook up better if they are cut into even chunks before boiling, but otherwise proceed as for potatoes, peeling them if needed. You can also mix potatoes with another root vegetable, replacing up to half the amount of potatoes with celery root, for example, or even beets, if you dare serve 
something so  pink!47
bowl basicsSautéed Greens
1 bunch cooking greens, such as kale, 
collards, Swiss chard, or broccoli rabe
1 Tbsp olive, coconut, or other cooking oil 
1⁄4 tsp salt
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] water
Cut off and discard the tough stem ends 
from the greens, then cut the remaining 
stems from the leaves. Chop the stems 
and leaves, keeping them separate. (Some people choose to discard the stems, and you can too, but they are perfectly edible, 
so I like to use them.) Place a large frying 
pan or sauté pan over medium-high heat and add the oil. When the oil shimmers, add the chopped stems and salt and cook, 
stirring, until they brighten in color, about 
1 minute. Add the water, cover, turn the 
heat to low, and cook until the stems 
are just tender to the bite, 5  to 10  min-
utes; the timing will depend on the type 
of greens. 
Uncover, add the chopped greens, stir to 
combine, raise the heat to medium, and 
cook, stirring frequently, until the greens 
are wilted and tender, about 3  minutes for 
chard and up to 10  minutes or longer for 
kale or collards. Transfer directly to the 
bowls, or have them ready while you get 
other ingredients together and serve at 
room temperature.VARIATIONS
Add 1 garlic clove, sliced, with the stems.
Add about ½ teaspoon peeled and finely grated fresh 
ginger with the greens.
Sprinkle in ¼ tsp red pepper flakes with the stems.Grate lemon zest to taste over the finished greens.Drizzle extra-virgin olive oil over the finished greens. 
Spaghetti Squash
One 3- to 4-lb [1.4- to 1.8-kg] spaghetti 
squash
Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C] and 
oil a baking sheet. Cut off and discard 
the ends of the squash and then cut the 
squash in half lengthwise. Scoop out and discard the seeds and set both halves, cut-side down, on the prepared baking sheet. 
Roast until the squash is tender when 
pierced with a fork, 45  to 60  minutes. 
Remove from the oven and turn the halves 
cut-side up. Using a fork, scoop out flesh 
in spaghetti-like strands and use them as a 
base or to top your bowls.48
bowls!Winter Squash Mash
One 3- to 4-lb [1.3  to 1.8-kg] winter squash 
2 Tbsp butter
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup [60  to 120 ml] whole milk or 
heavy cream, warmed (optional)
Salt
Trim off the ends of the squash, then peel 
off the skin using a paring knife or a vege -
table peeler. Cut the squash in half length-wise and scoop out and discard the seeds and fibrous pulp. Cut into even cubes. Boil, steam, or microwave the squash 
pieces until tender when pierced with a 
knife tip. 
Transfer the squash cubes to a large bowl, 
add the butter, and, using a large fork or a potato masher, mash until the squash is smooth and the butter has melted. Pour 
in the milk for extra richness, if desired, 
and stir to combine. Spoon into the bowls as a delicious comfort-food base. Store 
any leftover mash in an airtight container 
in the refrigerator for up to 3  days in the 
freezer for up to 6  months.
MORE VEGETABLE RECIPES
In Part 3, you’ll find plenty of additional  
vegetable bases and vegetable toppings to 
incorporate into your own bowl creations. 
VEGETABLE BASES
More vegetables as bases:
Cabbage Kale Slaw (page  112) 
Spiced Cauliflower “Couscous” (page  146) 
Ribboned Kale (page  139) 
Spicy Sautéed Corn (page  110) 
Zucchini Noodles (page  117)VEGETABLE TOPPINGS
More vegetables to top your bowls:
Baked Eggplant (page  143) 
Burst Tomatoes (page  81)
Carrot Daikon Slaw (page  93) 
Charred Vegetables (page  133) 
Chopped Cilantro Salad (page  101) 
Chopped Cucumber Salad (page  143) 
Cucumber Tomato Salad (page  78)
Escarole Salad (page  96) 
Ezme Salad (page  110) 
Fennel–Green Apple Salad (page  104) 
Garlic-Braised Artichokes (page  146) 
Garlicky Chard (page  129) 
Kimchi-Style Brussels Sprouts (page  139) 
Lemony Carrots (page  115) 
Marinated Mushrooms (page  115) 
Moroccan-Spiced Root Vegetables (page  87) 
Pickled Turnips with Their Greens (page  127) 
Roasted Eggplant Salad (page  149) 
Roasted Red Onions (page  139) 
Shredded Romaine Salad (page  84) 
Seared Brussels Sprout Leaf Salad (page  123) 
Shaved Zucchini Salad (page  81) 
Steamed Beets with Their Greens (page  107) 
Sweet Pepper Slaw (page  121) 
Tomato Confit (page  99) 
Turmeric Vegetables (page  84)
Tzatziki (page  110) 
Wilted Frisée (page  91)49
bowl basicsNot that you haven’t layered in lots of flavors 
already, but these sauces will kick up your 
bowls to the next level. Remember, adding a 
sauce of some sort is the easiest way to bring 
a bowl together. Many store-bought sauces—
Sriracha, hot chile oil, toasted sesame oil, 
ponzu , sweet-and-sour sauce, various salad 
dressings—are quick and delicious ways to 
go. Here, I’ve gathered some of my favorite 
homemade flavor bombs for when you have 
a little time to put together your own sauces. 
Unless otherwise noted, these sauces are 
best when freshly made, but can be covered 
and refrigerated for a  day or two. Each sauce 
 recipe makes enough for four generous serv -
ings, often with a bit left over for an ad hoc 
bowl made the next  day.SUPER SAUCES
50
bowls!Aioli 
1 egg
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice, plus more if needed 
for thinning
1 garlic clove, crushed or minced
1⁄2 tsp Dijon mustard
1⁄2 to 3⁄4 cup [120  to 180 ml] olive oil or 
mixture of olive oil and canola or other 
neutral vegetable oil 
Salt 
In a blender or food processor, whirl 
together the egg, lemon juice, garlic, and 
mustard until blended. With the motor 
running on low speed, slowly add the oil, a drop or two at a time, allowing each addi-tion to incorporate into the egg mixture 
before adding more. Once the mixture 
has emulsified, thickened, and lightened in color, you can begin adding the remaining oil in a slow, steady stream. Use only as 
much of the oil as needed to achieve a 
good mayonnaise consistency. When  the 
oil has been incorporated, season the 
mixture with salt. If the sauce it is too 
thick, thin with a few drops of lemon juice 
(although counterintuitive, more oil will thicken the mixture).Avocado Vinaigrette
1⁄2 ripe avocado, peeled
1 small shallot, minced
1 Tbsp red wine vinegar or fresh lime juice1 tsp Dijon mustard
1⁄4 tsp salt
3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
In a bowl, mash the avocado with a fork 
until fairly smooth. Add the shallot, vine-
gar, mustard, and salt. Mash and stir until 
a smooth paste forms. Stir in the olive oil to make a smooth dressing. 
Basil Pesto
Leaves from 2 bunches basil 
2 to 4 garlic cloves, chopped
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
Salt
1⁄4 cup [30 g] pine nuts
1⁄2 cup [40 g] shredded Parmesan cheese
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup [60  to 120 ml] lukewarm water
To keep the basil as bright green as 
possible, follow this optional blanching 
step: Bring a large pot of salted water to 
a boil and prepare a bowl of ice water. Dunk the basil leaves in the boiling water 
for 30  seconds, drain, and immediately 
plunge them into the ice water to cool them off. Drain and squeeze dry.51
bowl basicsIn a blender or food processor, whirl 
together the basil, garlic, olive oil, lemon 
juice, and salt until smooth. Add the nuts 
and Parmesan and pulse until the nuts are incorporated. Transfer to a bowl and stir in as much of the water as needed to create 
a level of sauciness you like. 
Basil Vinaigrette
Leaves from 1 large bunch basil
1 garlic clove, minced2 Tbsp white wine or champagne vinegar
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
In a blender or food processor, whirl 
together the basil, garlic, and vinegar 
until thoroughly blended. With the motor 
running, drizzle in the oil. Season with salt and pepper.
Caper Dressing
2 Tbsp drained capers, minced
1 small shallot, minced3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 Tbsp white wine vinegar or champagne 
vinegar
1⁄2 tsp dry mustard
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
In a small bowl, whisk together the capers, 
shallot, olive oil, vinegar, and mustard until 
well blended. Season with salt and pepper. Chimichurri
2 garlic cloves
1 cup [30 g] packed fresh flat-leaf parsley 
leaves
1⁄2 cup [10 g] packed fresh cilantro leaves
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄3 cup [80 ml] red wine vinegar
1⁄2 tsp ground cumin
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 tsp red pepper flakes 
Put the garlic in a food processor and 
pulse until the garlic is finely chopped, 
stopping to scrape down the sides as 
needed. Add the parsley and cilantro and pulse until the herbs and garlic are minced, again stopping to scrape down 
the sides as needed. Add the olive oil, 
vinegar, cumin, and salt and pulse to com-bine. Pulse in the red pepper flakes.
Creamy Dill Sauce 
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] buttermilk
1⁄3 cup [80 g] mayonnaise
2 Tbsp chopped fresh dill
2 Tbsp chopped fresh chives1 tsp salt
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 tsp garlic powder (optional)
In a medium bowl, whisk together the 
buttermilk and mayonnaise. Stir in the dill, 
chives, and salt. Add the garlic powder 
to taste (if using). Cover and refrigerate 
for at least 30  minutes or up to 1  week 
before  using.52
bowls!Feta Vinaigrette
3⁄4 cup [125 g] crumbled feta cheese
1⁄3 cup [80 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
3 Tbsp red wine vinegar
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
In a blender food or food processor, whirl 
together the cheese, olive oil, and vinegar 
until smooth. Alternatively, in a bowl with 
a fork, mash together the cheese, olive oil, and vinegar until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 
Ginger Vinaigrette
1- to 2-in [2.5- to 5-cm] piece fresh ginger, 
peeled
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] rice vinegar
1 Tbsp sugar
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] cold-pressed sesame oil (not 
toasted!)
1⁄2 tsp soy sauce
Using the fine holes on a box grater or a 
rasp-type Microplane grater, finely grate 
the ginger into a small bowl. Add the 
vinegar, sugar, sesame oil, and soy sauce and stir until the sugar dissolves. Taste and adjust with more sugar and/or soy sauce 
if you like.Green Garlic Sauce
1 Tbsp vegetable oil
8 oz [230 g] green garlic, white and green 
parts, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 cup [30 g] pine nuts or pistachios
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄4 cup [20 g] shredded aged pecorino cheese
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, combine the vegetable oil, green 
garlic, and salt and cook, stirring fre-
quently, until the green garlic is soft, 
about 3  minutes. Remove from the heat 
and let cool to warm room temperature. 
In a blender or food processor, pulse the 
pine nuts until chopped. Transfer to a small bowl. Add the cooked green garlic 
to the blender or processor and whirl until 
bright green and smooth, stopping to scrape down the sides as necessary. With the motor running, drizzle in the olive oil 
and process until fully incorporated. Add 
the reserved nuts and the cheese and pulse until well blended. Taste and adjust with more salt, if you like. 53
bowl basicsGreen Olive Sauce
18 green olives, pitted
1 garlic clove 
1⁄4 tsp salt
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil2 Tbsp sherry vinegar or fresh lemon juiceFreshly ground black pepper
On a cutting board and using a sharp 
knife, mince together the olives, garlic, 
and salt into a paste. (Or, if you have a 
mortar and pestle, this is a good time to use it!) Transfer the paste to a medium bowl and whisk in the olive oil and vinegar. 
Season with pepper. 
Harissa
2 oz [55 g] large dried red chiles (New 
Mexican chiles work nicely here)
Boiling water to cover4 garlic cloves, choppedLeaves from 4 fresh flat-leaf parsley sprigs16 large fresh mint leaves2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil, plus more if 
needed for storing
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juiceFine sea salt
Stem and seed the chiles. Put the chiles 
in a medium heatproof bowl and pour in 
boiling water to cover. Let the chiles soak 
until soft and pliable, about 30  minutes. 
Drain, reserving 1 cup [240 ml] of the 
soaking liquid. 
In a blender or food processor, whirl 
together the soaked chiles, garlic, pars-
ley, mint, olive oil, lemon juice, and ½  tsp 
salt until a smooth paste forms. Add 2 to 3 Tbsp of the soaking liquid to thin 
the mixture if needed to help it blend smoothly. Taste and add more olive oil, 
lemon juice, and salt if needed. 
Transfer the sauce to a jar with a tight-  
fitting lid or other sealable container and 
store in the refrigerator for up to 2  weeks. 
To store the sauce for up to 1  month, 
top it with thin layer of olive oil before 
 capping tightly.
Herb Butter Sauce
3 Tbsp butter
1 shallot, minced
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] dry white vermouth or dry 
white wine2 Tbsp finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley 2 Tbsp finely chopped fresh chives
1⁄4 tsp finely grated lemon zest
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
In a small frying pan over medium heat, 
melt 1½  Tbsp of the butter. Add the shallot 
and cook, stirring frequently, until it soft-
ens, about 2  minutes. Add the vermouth 
and simmer until the liquid is reduced 
by about half, about 2  minutes. Mean -
while, cut the remaining 1½  Tbsp butter 
into small pieces. Add the parsley, chives, 
and lemon zest to the pan and stir just to 
combine. Turn the heat to low, add the 
butter pieces, and whisk constantly until the butter melts into the sauce. Remove from the heat and use immediately (this 
sauce is especially good spooned over 
fish, shellfish, and steamed vegetables). 54
bowls!Lemon Garlic Vinaigrette
2 to 3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 small garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 tsp finely grated lemon zest (optional)
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 tsp dry mustard
In a small bowl, whisk together 2  Tbsp of 
the olive oil, the lemon juice, garlic, lemon 
zest, salt, pepper, and mustard until emul-
sified. Whisk in the remaining 1  Tbsp oil if 
needed to thin to a good consistency. 
Sesame Sauce
1⁄3 cup [50 g] sesame seeds
2 Tbsp sugar
2 tsp soy sauce1
1⁄2 tsp mirin 
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] warm water
Place a small frying pan over medium 
heat. Add the sesame seeds and cook, 
stirring or swirling constantly, until the 
sesame seeds are just starting to turn a deeper gold. Transfer the toasted sesame seeds to a mortar or a small bowl. Use 
a pestle or a wooden spoon to work the 
sesame seeds into a paste. Add the sugar, soy sauce, and mirin and work them into the sesame paste. Stir in the water to thin 
the paste to a sauce.Parsley Walnut Pesto
11⁄2 cups [165 g] walnut pieces 
2 to 3 garlic cloves
Leaves from 2 bunches flat-leaf parsley
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] walnut oil 
1 to 2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice or cider vinegar
1⁄2 cup [50 g] grated aged pecorino cheese
Salt
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, toast the walnuts, shaking the pan 
frequently, until the walnuts start to 
smell toasty and take on a bit of color, 
3 to 5 minutes. Take care not to let them 
darken too much in the pan, as they will continue to toast when you take them off 
the heat. Transfer them to a plate or cut-
ting board and let cool. 
In a blender or food processor, pulse the 
garlic until minced, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Add the parsley leaves and pulse until they have reduced 
a bit. Add the walnut oil and lemon juice 
and whirl until the sauce is fairly smooth. Add the walnuts and pulse until as smooth as you like (I prefer to have some chunks 
of walnut in the sauce when it is finished). 
Add the cheese and pulse to combine. Season with salt. 55
bowl basicsPeanut Sauce
1⁄2 cup [130 g] creamy peanut butter
1⁄3 cup [80 ml] warm water, plus more as 
needed
2 Tbsp soy sauce1 Tbsp fresh lime juice1 Tbsp peeled and finely grated fresh ginger1 garlic clove, minced1 teaspoon brown sugar
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 tsp red pepper flakes
In a medium bowl, whisk together the 
peanut butter, water, soy sauce, lime 
juice, ginger, garlic, brown sugar, and the 
pepper flakes to taste. (If you like, whirl together all of the ingredients in blender or food processor.) Add more water, 
1 Tbsp at a time, until the sauce is as thin 
and as drizzle-ready as you like.
Raita
1 cup [240 ml] plain whole-milk yogurt
1 small cucumber, peeled, halved lengthwise, 
seeded, and grated on the large holes of a box grater
Leaves from 6 fresh cilantro sprigs, minced12 large fresh mint leaves, minced1 green onion, white and green parts, 
trimmed and minced
1⁄4 tsp ground coriander
1⁄4 tsp ground cumin
SaltIn a medium bowl, combine the yogurt, 
cucumber, cilantro, mint, green onion, 
coriander, and cumin and stir to mix well. 
Season with salt, then let sit for at least 
15 minutes or cover and refrigerate for up 
to overnight. 
Roasted Chile Sauce
2 serrano or jalapeño chiles
1 small garlic clove, minced3 Tbsp olive oil1 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1⁄4 tsp salt
You can roast the chiles over a hot fire in 
a charcoal or gas grill, over the flame of 
a burner on a gas range, or on a baking 
sheet under a preheated broiler. Using tongs, turn the chiles as needed until charred and blistered on all sides, then set 
aside to cool. When the chiles are cool 
enough to handle, rub off their blackened skin, pull out their stem and seeds, and finely chop them. If properly roasted, they 
will sort of fall apart as you chop them. 
In a bowl, combine the chiles, garlic, olive 
oil, lime juice, and salt and whisk until the 
sauce looks creamy. Taste and adjust with more salt if needed. 56
bowls!Romesco
2 red bell peppers
1⁄2 cup [55 g] slivered blanched almonds 
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] olive oil
5 garlic cloves, chopped
3 tomatoes, peeled and chopped
2 árbol or other small dried hot chiles, 
stemmed, seeded, and chopped
1⁄3 cup [80 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
3 Tbsp dry white wine
1⁄2 tsp fine sea salt
1 Tbsp red wine vinegar
You can roast the bell peppers over a 
hot fire in a charcoal or gas grill, over 
the flame of a burner on a gas range, 
or on a baking sheet under a preheated broiler. Using tongs, turn the peppers as needed until charred and blistered on all 
sides, then set aside to cool. When the 
bell peppers are cool enough to handle, rub off their blackened skin, pull out their stem and seeds, and roughly chop. Set the 
peppers aside.
In a medium saucepan over medium-high 
heat, toast the almonds, stirring con-
stantly, until they start to brown, about 
3 minutes. Pour onto a small plate and 
set aside.
Return the pan to medium-high heat and add the olive oil. When the oil is hot, add 
half of the garlic and cook, stirring, until 
fragrant, about 1  minute. Add the toma -
toes, roasted peppers, chiles, broth, wine, and salt and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the vegetables are all very soft, about 
20 minutes. Remove from the heat and 
let cool.In a blender or food processor, com-bine the cooled tomato-pepper mixture, 
almonds, the remaining garlic, and the 
vinegar and whirl until extremely smooth. 
(Let the machine run for at least 2  min-
utes.) Taste and add more salt if needed. 
Serve the sauce warm or at room tem-
perature. It will keep in an airtight con-
tainer in the refrigerator for up to 3  days.
Rouille 
1 red bell pepper 
1 egg1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice, plus more if needed 
for thinning
1 garlic clove, crushed or minced
1⁄2 tsp Dijon mustard
1 small fresh red chile, seeded and finely 
chopped (optional)
3⁄4 cup [180 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
You can roast the bell pepper over a hot 
fire in a charcoal or gas grill, over the 
flame of a burner on a gas range, or on 
a baking sheet under a preheated broiler. Using tongs, turn the pepper as needed until charred and blistered on all sides, 
then set aside to cool. When the pepper is 
cool enough to handle, rub off the black-ened skin and pull out the stem and seeds.57
bowl basicsSalsa Verde
1 lb [455 g] tomatillos, husks removed and 
rinsed
1 small onion, quartered4 serrano or 2 jalapeño chiles3 garlic cloves, unpeeled
1⁄4 cup [10 g] chopped fresh cilantro
1⁄2 tsp sugar
2 Tbsp olive oil
3⁄4 cup [180 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
1 to 2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
Salt
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill for 
direct-heat cooking over medium-high 
heat. (You should be able to hold your 
hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above the cook -
ing grate for 3  to 4 seconds before you 
must pull it away.) 
Thread the tomatillos, onion quarters, 
chiles, and garlic each on their own thin metal skewers. Oil the cooking grate. Set 
the skewers on the grate directly over the 
fire and cook, turning as needed, until 
the vegetables are tender and the skins 
on the garlic, tomatillos, and chiles are 
charred, about 10  minutes for the onion, 
8 minutes for the tomatillos and chiles, 
and 5  minutes for the garlic. Let every -
thing sit until cool enough to handle, 
then remove the charred skins. Remove 
and discard the stem and seeds from the chiles and core the tomatillos. Transfer the tomatillos, onion, chiles, and garlic to 
a blender, add the cilantro and sugar, and 
pulse until a purée forms. In a blender or food processor, whirl together the egg, lemon juice, garlic, and mustard until blended. Add the roasted 
pepper and the chile, if using, and whirl 
until a smooth paste forms. With the motor running on low speed, slowly add the olive oil, a drop or two at a time, 
allowing each addition to incorporate 
into the egg mixture before adding more. Once the mixture has emulsified, thick-ened, and lightened in color, you can 
begin adding the remaining oil in a slow, 
steady stream. When all of the oil has been incorporated, season the mixture 
with salt. If the mixture is too thick, thin 
with a few drops of lemon juice (although counterintuitive, more oil will thicken 
the mixture).
This garlicky rust-colored sauce, a classic of 
Provence where it traditionally accompanies fish soups and other fish dishes, is a good topping for seafood bowls. 
cont’d58
bowls!In a large saucepan over medium-high 
heat, warm the olive oil. When the oil 
is hot, add the purée and cook, stirring 
frequently, until it thickens slightly, 2  to 
3 minutes. Add the broth and simmer, stir -
ring occasionally, until reduced by about one-third. Remove from the heat, stir in 
the lime juice to taste, and season with salt. Serve warm or at room temperature. 
This recipe makes more than you will need 
for four bowls, but it stores beautifully for a future bowl-centric meal. Pack it into an airtight container and refrigerate for up to 
3 days or freeze for up to 6  months.
Shatta
4 garlic cloves, chopped4 Fresno or 8 Thai bird chiles, chopped
1⁄2 cup [20 g] chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
1⁄2 cup [20 g] chopped fresh cilantro
2 tsp white vinegar1 tsp olive oil
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 tsp ground cumin
1⁄3 cup [85 g] tomato paste
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] warm water
In a blender or food processor, combine 
the garlic, chiles, parsley, cilantro, vinegar, 
olive oil, salt, pepper, cumin, tomato paste, 
and water and whirl until smooth. Taste and adjust with salt if needed.This Middle Eastern hot sauce packs a punch, 
so you won’t need much for each bowl. Luck-ily, it keeps nicely in a tightly covered con-tainer in the refrigerator for a good long time. You will know it is past its pull date if mold 
has formed on the surface. 
Sichuan Pepper Vinegar Sauce
4 to 8 small dried Chinese or árbol chiles
2 tsp Sichuan peppercorns
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] canola oil
3 Tbsp Chinese black vinegar, or 2 Tbsp rice 
vinegar and 1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar
2 Tbsp soy sauce1 Tbsp toasted sesame oil1 Tbsp sugar3 garlic cloves, minced
Heat a small frying pan over medium-high 
heat. When the pan is hot, add the chiles 
and peppercorns and cook, stirring 
frequently, until toasted and fragrant, 
about 3  minutes. Transfer to a mortar 
and crush with a pestle until flaky (or use a mini food processor or a bowl and a 
wooden spoon). Transfer to a medium 
heat proof  bowl.  
Return the frying pan to medium heat and 
add the canola oil. When the oil shimmers, 
immediately pour it over the chile-pepper -
corn mixture. Let sit until cooled to luke-
warm, about 15  minutes. Add the vinegar, 
soy sauce, sesame oil, sugar, and garlic 
and stir until the sugar dissolves. 59
bowl basicsMORE SAUCES
In Part 3, you will discover more versatile  
and delicious sauces you can use to dress  
up bowls: 
MORE YUMMY SAUCES TO BE FOUND WITH  
THE BOWL RECIPES:
Creamy Mushroom Sauce (page  129)
White Garlic Sauce (page  143)
Herbed Yogurt Sauce (page  146)
Leche de Tigre (page  101)
Preserved Lemon Gremolata (page  87)
Russian Dressing (page  135)
Salsa Fresca (page  89)
Serrano Chile Vinaigrette (page  112)
Tahini Harissa Dressing (page  78)Tomato Paprika Sauce
2 fresh or canned tomatoes, halved and 
seeded
3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 Tbsp red wine vinegar1 garlic clove, chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp hot or sweet smoked Spanish paprika
In a blender or food processor, whirl 
together the tomatoes, olive oil, vinegar, 
garlic, salt, and paprika until smooth. Taste 
and adjust with salt if needed. 
Vietnamese Nuoc Cham
1 serrano or 3 Thai bird chiles, cut into thin 
rings
1 garlic clove, minced3 Tbsp palm sugar or brown sugar5 Tbsp [80 ml] fish sauce2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] warm water
1⁄2 small carrot, peeled and finely grated 
(optional)
If you have a mortar and pestle, combine 
two-thirds of the chile slices, the garlic, 
and the palm sugar and pound to a paste 
with the pestle. If you lack a mortar and pestle, combine the same ingredients on a cutting board and, using a sharp knife, 
mince together to form a paste. Transfer 
the paste to a small bowl, add the fish sauce, lime juice, and water, and stir to dissolve the sugar. Add the remaining chile 
slices and stir in the carrot, if you like.60
bowls!Toppings are where customizing really comes 
to the fore, and where having a solid pantry 
on-site will let you turn ho-hum leftovers into 
beyond-tasty dinners. Most toppings require 
just a quick chopping or grating, and not 
always even that: capers, cheeses of all sorts, 
flowers (nasturtiums) and blossoms (zuc
-
chini), fresh herbs, finely grated lemon zest, 
microgreens, nuts, olives, preserved lemons, 
seeds of all sorts (chia, sunflower, sesame, 
poppy, onion), and sprouts from bean to 
radish. 
Crowning a bowl with a creamy finish is even 
easier. Just a scoop with a spoon will land a 
dollop of something rich and satisfying on 
top: burrata cheese, cottage cheese, crème 
fraîche, marscapone cheese, sour cream, and 
yogurt.
If you have a little time to put a topping 
together, here are ten more easy ideas that 
will complement all kinds of bowls. Each 
 
recipe yields enough for four bowls, unless 
otherwise indicated, and I have included 
 
storage information in case you decide to 
make them in advance. The Frizzled Shallots 
in the bowl on page  93 would also be  
delicious strewn over pretty much anything.CREAMY, CRUNCHY, CRISPY TOPPINGS
61
bowl basics
Hand-Torn Croutons
2 cups [100 g] bite-size hand-torn bread 
pieces 
1 Tbsp olive or canola oil or butter, melted 
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Put 
the bread pieces in a medium bowl, drizzle 
with the oil, and toss to coat the pieces as 
evenly as possible with the oil. Spread the pieces in a single layer on a baking sheet.
Bake the croutons until golden and 
crunchy, 10  to 15  minutes. Remove from 
the oven and let cool completely on the 
pan on a cooling rack. The croutons will 
crisp up as they cool. Use immediately, or 
transfer to an airtight container and store 
at room temperature for up to 2  days.
Use any kind of bread you like. I’m a fan of 
rye croutons for savory dishes, and cinna-mon bread croutons on a breakfast bowl are heavenly.
Buttered Bread Crumbs
1 cup [60 g] fresh bread crumbs 
2 Tbsp butter, melted
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. 
Put the bread crumbs in a bowl, drizzle 
with the butter, and toss until the crumbs 
are evenly coated. Spread them in a single layer (as much as possible) on a 
baking  sheet. Bake the bread crumbs, stirring them and returning them to a single layer every 
5 minutes, until golden brown, about 
15 minutes. Remove from the oven and 
transfer to a plate to cool. Use immedi-ately, or transfer to an airtight container 
and store at room temperature up to 
2 days. 
Cumin Pita Crumbles
2 pita breads, torn into bite-size pieces
1 Tbsp olive oil
1⁄4 tsp ground cumin
1⁄2 tsp salt
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Put 
the pita pieces in a medium bowl, drizzle 
with the olive oil, and toss to coat the 
pieces as evenly as possible with the oil. Sprinkle with the cumin and toss again to distribute evenly. Spread the pita pieces 
in a single layer on a baking sheet and 
sprinkle with the salt. 
Bake the pita pieces until they just start 
to turn golden, about 10  minutes. Stir and 
continue to bake until golden and starting 
to crisp, about 5  minutes longer. Remove 
from the oven and let cool completely on 
the pan on a cooling rack. The pieces will 
crisp up as they cool. Use immediately, or 
transfer to an airtight container and store 
at room temperature for up to 2  days.62
bowls!Baked Tortilla Strips
4 corn tortillas
Canola or vegetable oil for brushingSalt
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Cut 
the tortillas into strips of desired size (or 
into whatever shapes you like). Arrange 
the strips on a baking sheet. Brush them with oil and sprinkle with salt, then turn them over and brush the second side with 
oil and sprinkle with salt. 
Bake until golden, about 5  minutes. Turn 
the strips over and continue to bake until 
golden brown (browning a tad on the 
edges), about 2  minutes longer (trust 
your eye over the clock here). Remove from the oven and let cool on the pan on 
a cooling rack. They will crisp up as they 
cool. Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight container and store at room tem-
perature for up to 2  days. 
Caramelized Nuts
1 cup [145 g] whole natural almonds or  
[100 g] pecan or walnut halves 
1 egg white
1⁄4 cup [50 g] sugar
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 tsp cayenne pepper (optional)
Preheat the oven to 325°F [165°C]. Line 
a baking sheet with parchment paper (it 
makes cleanup easier). Chop the nuts, 
if you like. In a medium bowl, whisk the egg white until it is almost watery. Whisk in the sugar and salt and then whisk in the cayenne if you want things 
spicy.  Add the nuts and toss to coat 
them evenly with the egg white mixture. Spread the coated nuts on the prepared 
 baking sheet in a single layer (as much 
as possible). 
Bake the nuts until browned and crunchy, 
10 to 15  minutes. Stir every 5  minutes or 
so to help the nuts cook evenly. Remove from the oven and transfer to a plate to 
cool. Use immediately, or transfer to an 
airtight container and store at room tem-
perature for up to 3  days.
Caramelized Onions
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil
1 onion, halved and thinly sliced
1⁄4 tsp salt
In a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat, warm the oil, swirling the pan to coat 
the bottom evenly. Add the onion slices, 
sprinkle with the salt, and cook, stirring frequently, until they are soft and translu-
cent, 3  to 5 minutes. Turn the heat to low 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until the 
onions are caramelized, about 20  minutes. 
Use immediately.63
bowl basicsQuick Pickled Red Onions
1 small red onion, halved and thinly sliced
3⁄4 cup [180 ml] distilled white vinegar 
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
In a small bowl, combine the onion, vin-
egar, salt, and pepper, stirring gently to 
dissolve the salt. Set aside at room tem-
perature to marinate for at least 30  min-
utes, or cover and refrigerate for up to 
1 week. Drain before adding to bowls.
Homemade Kimchi
One 2-lb [910-g] head napa cabbage
6 cups [1.4 L] water3 Tbsp salt6 green onions, white and green parts, 
chopped or julienned
2 Tbsp peeled and finely grated or minced 
fresh ginger
2 tsp gochugaru (Korean dried red chile 
flakes), or 2 dried New Mexico chiles, stemmed, seeded, and finely ground
Core the cabbage and then coarsely chop 
the leaves and transfer to a large bowl. 
Measure the water into a large pitcher or 
other similar-size vessel, preferably with a spout. Add the salt and stir to dissolve. Pour this brine over the cabbage, then top 
the cabbage with a plate or lid to keep it 
submerged. Let sit at room temperature 
for about 12  hours. Drain the cabbage into a colander placed over a bowl to capture the brine. Return 
the cabbage to the large bowl, add the 
green onions, ginger, and gochugaru, and toss to distribute the seasonings evenly. Stuff this mixture into a sealable con-
tainer. A large glass jar or pitcher works 
well; if you have a sauerkraut crock, all the better. Add enough of the reserved brine to cover the mixture. 
Place a piece of parchment paper or 
plastic wrap directly against the surface of 
the mixture and seal the container. Place 
the container on a tray or in a larger bowl (to catch any spillage when the cabbage 
bubbles up as it ferments) and let sit in a 
cool, dark place for 6  days.
When the kimchi is ready, it should taste 
sour but spicy and delicious, like a pickle 
or sauerkraut. (If you see or smell any 
mold, toss the whole batch.) You can leave it in the same container or transfer 
it to smaller jars. It will keep in the refrig -
erator for up to 3  weeks. 
Kimchi adds sharp flavor and lots of vitamin 
C (no joke!) to a bowl and can work as a vegetable or, in smaller amounts, as a garnish. This recipe makes 1 qt [1 L], so it will help add a bright taste to plenty of bowls!64
bowls!Roasted Garlic Cloves
1 head garlic
Olive oil for drizzlingSalt
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Sep-
arate the head of garlic into cloves and 
peel the cloves. Put the cloves in a small 
baking dish or other ovenproof container (a piece of aluminum foil crimped up at the edges works just fine). Drizzle with a 
little olive oil, sprinkle with salt, and cover 
with foil. 
Bake the garlic until very tender and evenly 
browned, about 30  minutes. Remove from 
the oven and let cool slightly before using. 
Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight 
container and store at room temperature 
for up to 3  days.
Popped Wild Rice
1 tsp canola or vegetable oil 
1⁄2 cup [90 g] wild rice
Salt
Heat a heavy medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat. Add the oil and swirl 
the pan to coat the bottom. When the oil 
is hot, add the wild rice, cover, and cook, shaking the pan frequently, until the rice “pops.” The timing varies greatly. It can 
range from 3  to 10  minutes, depending on 
how dry the wild rice is to start. It won’t pop as much as popcorn, but the moisture 
in the rice will turn to steam and force the 
kernels to pop open. Transfer to a medium bowl and sprinkle with salt. Let cool and 
use that same  day.Toasted Quinoa
1⁄2 cup [90 g] cooked and cooled Quinoa 
(page  18) 
2 tsp canola or vegetable oil 
Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Put the quinoa in a small bowl, drizzle with the 
oil, and toss to coat the quinoa evenly. 
Spread the quinoa in a single layer (as much as possible) on a baking sheet.
Bake the quinoa, stirring it and returning 
it to a single layer every 5  minutes, until 
browned and toasted, about 25  minutes. 
Let cool on the pan. Use immediately, or 
transfer to an airtight container and store 
at room temperature for up to 3  days.65
bowl basics
easy  
combi-  
nations
These bowls involve throwing a few things together,  
as bowls should. Take them as inspiration.PART 2OF A PLACE 
ARGENTINE GRILL
Ribboned Kale (page  139), sliced   
Steak (page  40), Grilled Vegetables 
(page  44), Chimichurri (page  51)
BIBIMBAP BOWL
rice of any sort (pages 15 and 20), 
sliced Steak (page  40) or ground 
beef (page  38), Homemade Kimchi 
(page  63), cilantro, green onions,  
sesame seeds, toasted sesame oil, soy 
sauce, fried egg (page  27), radish slicesCALIFORNIA ROLL
short-grain brown rice (page  15),  
crabmeat, avocado slices, cucumber 
slices, crumbled toasted seaweed,  
mayonnaise, toasted sesame seeds, 
Roasted Chile Sauce (page  55; optional)
SPARTAN JAPANESE
Soba Noodles (page  19), shredded 
Baked Tofu (page  29), julienned carrot 
and cucumber, sautéed  m aitake mush -
rooms, Ginger Vinaigrette (page  52), 
toasted sesame seeds, chopped green onions 
LE GRAND AIOLI
steamed potatoes and steamed green 
beans (page  44), hard-boiled egg 
(page  27), Oil-Poached Tuna (page  33), 
cherry tomatoes, Aioli (page  50) A LITTLE BIT GERMAN BOWL
Quinoa (page  18), black lentils 
(page  22), sliced sausage or shredded 
pork (page  40), sautéed red cabbage, 
whole-grain mustard 
NORDIC NIÇOISE
steamed potatoes (page  44) tossed with 
fresh dill, smoked fish (such as lox or 
trout), steamed green beans (page 44), chèvre, shredded butter lettuce, Caper 
Dressing (page  51)
YUCATÁN QUINOA TACO SALAD
Quinoa (page  18) with lime juice, shred -
ded Roast Chicken (page  36) rubbed 
with achiote before roasting, black 
beans (page  22), Avocado Vinaigrette 
(page  50), Salsa Fresca (page  89), 
shredded cabbage, Quick Pickled Red 
Onions (page  63) FRESH + THROWN TOGETHER
SIMPLE SUPPER BOWL
Quinoa (page  18) or short-grain brown 
rice (page  15), spinach raw or sautéed 
(page  47), hard-boiled egg (page  27), 
sprouts, toasted almonds, sweet soy sauce
HUMMUS + SOME
Bulgur (page  16), hummus, avocado  
slices, Lemon Garlic Vinaigrette 
(page  54), poached egg (page  26), 
toasted pine nuts, dried currantsNO-NOODLE BOWL
Spaghetti Squash (page  47), diced tofu 
(marinated, if you dare, page  31), grated 
radish, mung bean sprouts, Peanut Sauce 
(page  55)
SPRIGHTLY FRESH
grain of choice, steamed edamame 
(page  44), sautéed carrots, Basil Pesto 
(page  50), chopped peanuts 
GREENS, MAGICAL GREENS
Quinoa (page  18), sautéed garlicky  
broccoli rabe (page  47), fresh herbs, 
sliced chile, minced raw dandelion 
greens (just a bit), Green Olive Sauce 
(page  53), poached egg (page  26)ROASTED VEGETABLES DELUXE
roasted cauliflower, winter squash,  
zucchini, kale, and cabbage (page  43); 
toasted almonds; Creamy Dill Sauce 
(page  51)
HIPPIE GOODNESS
HIPPIE SOUTHERNER
Polenta (page  18), Baked Tofu with BBQ 
Marinade (pages  29 and 31), Sautéed 
Greens (page  47), Pot Likker Beans 
(page  23)
THE RANDOM HIPPIE
Quinoa (page  18), Lentils (page  22), 
roasted winter squash (page  43), Quick 
Pickled Red Onions (page  63), roasted 
tomatoes (page  43), Rouille (page  56), 
chopped fresh dill
THE REFINED HIPPIE
white beans (page  22), wilted esca -
role and radicchio, avocado slices, Feta 
Vinaigrette (page  52), chopped peanuts, 
Toasted Quinoa (page  64)
THE SPICY HIPPIE
Lentils (page  22), Brown Rice (page  15), 
sautéed greens (page  47), Caramelized 
Onions (page  62), Shatta (page  58)IT’S BREAKFAST TIME
FALLING LEAVES BREAKFAST
Steel-Cut Oats (page  19), diced apples, 
spiced caramelized walnuts (page  62), 
roasted pumpkin seeds
NORTH WOODS BREAKFAST
Wild Rice (page  20), country  
sausage, dried cranberries, maple  
or birch syrup, chopped fresh chives, 
toasted pecans
SPUNKY BREAKFAST
sweet potato hash (page  45),  
Scrambled Eggs (page  28),  
sauerkraut, green onions
SIMPLE BREAKFAST (OR HUMBLE DINNER)
sweet brown rice (page  15), fried egg 
(page  27), crumbled toasted seaweed, 
Homemade Kimchi (page  63), chile oil
TWISTED LOWCOUNTRY BREAKFAST  
(LUNCH OR DINNER)
Polenta (page  18), Poached Shrimp 
(page  35), roasted okra (page  43), 
crumbled crisp bacon, Romesco 
(page  56), shredded Cheddar cheese, 
chopped tomato MIGHTY MEATY
NEW STEAK HOUSE
short-grain brown rice (page  15), sliced 
Steak (page  40), roasted broccoli 
(page  43), gochujang (Korean chile 
sauce), sesame seeds
NORTHERN HUNT
Wild Rice (page  20), sliced or shredded  
smoked duck, cranberry beans (page  22), 
braised radicchio,  crumbled blue cheese,  
chopped green  onionsOLD-SCHOOL TACO BOWL
pinto beans (page  22), ground beef 
(page  38) with cumin and cayenne  
pepper, shredded lettuce, guacamole, 
Salsa Verde (page  57), shredded  
Monterey Jack cheese, Baked Tortilla 
Strips (page  62)
BY THE SEASON
SPRING IS SPRUNG
Quinoa (page  18) with lots of dill and 
chervil, flaked cooked salmon, steamed 
asparagus and fiddlehead ferns (if you 
can find them; page  44), grilled morel 
mushrooms (page  44), Green Garlic 
Sauce (page  52)  
SUMMER NIGHT SUPPER
shredded lettuce, Grilled Shrimp 
(page  34), avocado slices, sliced chile, 
Basil Vinaigrette (page  51) 
THANKSGIVING IN A BOWL
Mashed Potatoes (page  46), shredded 
leftover roasted turkey, roasted Brussels 
sprouts (page  43), leftover or roasted 
sweet potatoes (page  43), cranberry 
sauce
WINTER WARM-UP
Winter Squash Mash (page  48),  
Lentils (page  22), roasted mushrooms 
(page  43), toasted walnuts, Parsley  
Walnut Pesto (page  54) 
A BOWL FOR ALL SEASONS
white beans (page 22), wilted escarole 
and radicchio, avocado slices, Feta  
Vinaigrette (page 52), chopped  
peanuts, Toasted Quinoa (page 64)PART 3
full 
bowlsThis is where the rubber hits 
the road—recipes for bowls 
designed to go together 
from the ground up. 
These recipes, as with the others in this book, 
are meant to serve 
four. They all include an Order of Opera-
tions designed to give a 
quick view of how to get all the components of each 
bowl done in the most efficient fashion. Some also come with a 
Make It Easy note that suggests 
ways to get similar results with 
less kitchen effort. As with all 
bowls, feel free to play. Trade 
out an element for a simi-
lar one, mix things up, add 
more garnishes, use a dif-
ferent sauce, make just one 
of the subrecipes and call 
it a day—how you use these 
recipes is entirely up to you,  
your taste, and who’s at your table.78
bowls!The Minty Goddess
mint lemon quinoa + falafel-esque  chickpeas + cucumber  tomato  salad + 
tahini  harissa  dressing + olives + feta  
ORDER OF OPERATIONS 
1. Cook the quinoa
2. Make the chickpeas
3. Make the salad
4. Make the dressing
5. Assemble the bowls
mint lemon quinoa
5 Tbsp [80 ml] olive oil
1 cup [180 g] quinoa 
2 cups [480 ml] water
1 garlic clove, chopped
1 tsp finely grated lemon zest 
2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
12 large fresh mint leaves
Salt
falafel-esque chickpeas
2 Tbsp olive oil
1 onion, chopped
1⁄2 tsp fine sea salt
2 to 3 garlic cloves, minced 
1⁄2 tsp ground cumin
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can chickpeas, drained 
and rinsed, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked chickpeas 
1⁄4 cup [5 g] fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves, 
chopped
1⁄4 cup [5 g] fresh cilantro leaves, chopped
2 Tbsp tahinicucumber tomato salad
1 English or other slicing cucumber, peeled, 
halved, seeded, and chopped
2 tomatoes, chopped 
tahini harissa dressing
1 Tbsp tahini
1 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1⁄2 tsp Harissa (page  53), or to taste
1⁄2 cup [90 g] Kalamata or oil-cured black olives, 
pitted and chopped 
1⁄2 cup [75 g] crumbled feta cheese 
FOR THE QUINOA: In a medium saucepan 
over medium-high heat, warm 1 Tbsp of the 
olive oil. Add the quinoa and cook, stirring 
frequently, until toasted, about 3  minutes. Add 
the water, bring to a boil, cover, turn the heat 
to low, and cook, undisturbed, until the quinoa 
is tender and fluffy and the liquid is absorbed, 
about 20  minutes. Remove from the heat and 
fluff with a fork.While the quinoa cooks, combine the garlic, 
lemon zest and juice, mint, and the remaining 
4 Tbsp [60 ml] olive oil in a blender and  whirl 
until smooth to make a sauce. Season 
with salt.
cont’d
80
bowls!When the quinoa is ready, scoop out 1 Tbsp of 
the sauce and set aside to use with the salad. 
Pour the remaining sauce over the quinoa, 
and toss to combine. Cover and set aside.
FOR THE CHICKPEAS: In a large frying pan 
over medium-high heat, warm the olive oil. 
Add the onion and sprinkle with the salt. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is 
soft, about 3  minutes. Add the garlic (use the 
larger amount if you favor garlic) and cook, 
stirring, until fragrant, about 1  minute. Add the 
cumin and stir to combine while it sizzles. Add the chickpeas and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until warmed through, about 3  minutes. Stir 
in the parsley, cilantro, and tahini and cook, 
stirring, until the herbs are wilted, about 
2 minutes. Cover and set aside.FOR THE SALAD: In a medium bowl, combine 
the cucumber and tomato and toss to mix. 
Drizzle with the 1 Tbsp sauce reserved from 
the quinoa.
FOR THE DRESSING: In a small bowl or mea-
suring cup, whisk together the tahini, olive oil, 
and lemon juice. Add the harissa, adjusting 
the amount according to how spicy your ver-
sion is and how much kick you like.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the quinoa among four 
bowls. Arrange the chickpeas and salad on the 
quinoa and drizzle with the dressing. Top with 
the olives and feta and serve. 81
full bowlsA Halloumi of a Time
herbed  lentils + lemony  grilled  halloumi + burst  tomatoes + shaved  zucchini  salad
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Marinate the halloumi
2. Cook the lentils
3. Cook the tomatoes
4. Make the salad
5. Grill the halloumi
6. Assemble the bowls
lemony grilled halloumi
1 Tbsp olive oil
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
8 oz [230 g] halloumi cheese (brined semihard 
Cypriot cheese, aka grilling cheese) 
herbed lentils
1 cup [200 g] brown lentils, rinsed 
Salt
1 small red onion, diced
1 cup [20 g] lightly packed fresh herb leaves, 
chopped (flat-leaf parsley, cilantro or dill, and a 
bit of mint and thyme is a nice mix)
1 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
Freshly ground black pepper
burst tomatoes
3 Tbsp olive oil
1 pt [300 g] cherry or grape tomatoes
Saltshaved zucchini salad
1 zucchini
1 lemon
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
Leaves from 2  to 3 fresh mint sprigs, chopped 
(optional)
FOR THE HALLOUMI: In a bowl large enough 
to hold the halloumi, whisk together the olive 
oil and lemon juice. Add the halloumi and let 
sit for about 30  minutes. 
Prepare a fire in a charcoal or gas grill for 
direct-heat cooking over medium heat. (You 
should be able to hold your hand about 1 in 
[2.5 cm] above the cooking grate for 4  to 
5 seconds before you must pull it away.) 
FOR THE LENTILS: While the cheese mari - 
nates, put the lentils in a saucepan and add 
water to cover. Place over high heat, bring 
to a boil, lower the heat to maintain a steady 
simmer, and cook until the lentils are al 
dente (just barely tender to the bite with a 
bit of resistance in the center); start testing 
after 15  minutes. Remove from the heat, add 
enough salt to the water until it tastes salty, 
and let sit until the lentils are fully tender, 
about 10  minutes. 
cont’d
83
full bowlsWhile the lentils are sitting, in a medium 
bowl, combine the onion and herbs. Drain 
the lentils, add them, still hot, to the bowl, 
and toss to combine. Drizzle with the olive oil, 
toss to coat, and season with black pepper. 
Cover  and set aside to keep warm, or let cool 
off and serve at room temperature.
FOR THE TOMATOES: In a large frying pan 
over medium heat, warm the olive oil. Add the 
tomatoes and cook, shaking the pan now and 
again, until the tomatoes “burst” and release 
their juices into the oil, about 10  minutes. 
Remove from the heat and season with salt. 
Set aside. 
FOR THE SALAD: Trim off the ends of the 
zucchini, then cut in half lengthwise. Cut each half lengthwise into paper-thin, even slices (a mandoline is handy here, but a sharp knife and a steady hand work just as well). Put the 
slices in a medium bowl. Using a fine-rasp 
Microplane grater or a zester and holding 
the lemon over the zucchini, zest half of the lemon. Cut the lemon in half and squeeze the juice from half of the lemon over the zucchini. 
Drizzle the zucchini with the olive oil, sprinkle 
with salt, and toss to coat the zucchini evenly. 
Taste a piece of zucchini and add more lemon juice or salt if you like. Sprinkle with the mint, if desired.TO GRILL THE HALLOUMI:  Oil the cooking 
grate. Lift the cheese out of the marinade,  
set it on the grate directly over the fire, and 
cook until browned on the first side, 3  to 
4 minutes. Flip the halloumi and brown on the 
second side, 3  to 4 minutes longer. Transfer 
the halloumi to a cutting board and cut into  
8 or 12  even slices. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the lentils among four 
bowls. Arrange the halloumi, tomatoes, and 
zucchini salad in three separate and equal sec -
tions on top of the lentils and serve. 
MAKE IT EASY:  Instead of cooking cherry 
tomatoes in a frying pan on the stove top, 
put 4 medium tomatoes on the cooking 
grate alongside the halloumi and leave them 
until they soften, about 8  minutes. Or skip 
firing up the grill and use a frying pan over medium-high on the stove top for grilling the 
cheese. 84
bowls!Addis Ababa Lane
kasha-style  buckwheat + browned  onion  split peas + turmeric  vegetables + 
shredded  romaine  salad + farmer  cheese
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Start the split peas
2. Cook the vegetables
3. Cook the buckwheat
4. Cook the onion and add to the split peas
5. Make the salad
6. Assemble the bowls
browned onion split peas
1 cup [200 g] yellow split peas or chana dal 
(split desi-type chickpea), rinsed
4 cups [960 ml] water
1 tsp peeled and grated fresh turmeric, or 2 tsp 
ground turmeric
1 onion, roughly chopped
3 Tbsp olive oil
2 to 3 garlic cloves, minced
turmeric vegetables
2 Tbsp butter or vegetable oil
1 small onion, chopped
6 garlic cloves, smashed 
Salt
1 tsp ground ginger
1⁄2 tsp ground turmeric
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 head savoy cabbage, or 1⁄2 head green 
cabbage, cored and cut into bite-size pieces 
3 Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cut into bite-
size pieces
3 carrots, peeled and cut into bite-size pieces
2 cups [480 ml] waterkasha-style buckwheat
2 cups [480 ml] water
1 Tbsp butter
1⁄4 tsp salt
1 egg
1 cup [180 g] toasted buckwheat (sometimes 
labeled “kasha”) 
shredded romaine salad
1 small head romaine lettuce3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 Tbsp red wine vinegar
1 small shallot, minced
1⁄4 tsp dried oregano
1⁄4 tsp salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3⁄4 cup [180 g] farmer cheese or whole-milk 
cottage cheese
FOR THE SPLIT PEAS: In a medium saucepan, 
combine the split peas and water, bring to a 
boil over high heat, and skim off and discard 
any foam from the surface. Add the turmeric, 
lower the heat to maintain a steady simmer, 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until tender, 
about 20  minutes. Add more water, 1⁄2 cup 
[120 ml] at a time, if needed to keep the 
peas covered. 
85
full bowlsFOR THE VEGETABLES: While the split peas 
are cooking, in a large frying pan or medium 
saucepan over medium-high heat, melt the 
butter. Add the onion, garlic, and 1⁄2 tsp salt 
and cook, stirring frequently, until the onion is 
soft, about 3  minutes. Add the ginger, tur -
meric, and pepper and cook, stirring, until fra-
grant, about 1  minute. Add the cabbage, stir to 
combine, cover, turn the heat to medium-low, 
and cook until the cabbage starts to wilt, 
about 3  minutes. Uncover, stir, re-cover, and 
cook until completely wilted, about 5  minutes 
longer. Add the potatoes, carrots, and water, stir well, raise the heat to high and bring to a boil. Lower the heat to a simmer, cover, and cook until the potatoes and carrots are 
tender, about 15  minutes. If necessary, cook 
with the cover off to reduce the liquid before serving. Keep warm.
FOR THE KASHA: In a medium saucepan over 
high heat, bring the water to a boil. Add the 
butter and salt and remove from the heat. In 
a medium bowl, whisk the egg until blended. Add the buckwheat and stir to coat it evenly. 
Heat a large frying pan (nonstick is great, if 
you have it; otherwise the heavier the pan, 
the better) over high heat. When the pan is hot, add the egg-coated buckwheat and cook, stirring constantly and scraping up any 
bits that cling to the pan, until the buckwheat 
smells toasty and no egg is visible, about 
2 minutes. Add the still-hot water, stir to com -
bine, cover, turn the heat to low, and simmer 
until the buckwheat is tender and the liquid is 
absorbed, 15  to 20  minutes.TO FINISH THE SPLIT PEAS: About 10  minutes 
before the peas are ready, in a blender or 
food processor, whirl the onion until puréed. 
In a large frying pan over medium-high heat, 
cook the onion purée, stirring frequently, until 
lightly browned, about 10  minutes. When the 
split peas are tender, add them (as well as any liquid remaining in the pan) to the onion 
along with the olive oil and cook, stirring occasionally, until the peas start to break 
down like pea soup, about 10  minutes. Stir in 
the garlic and keep warm.
FOR THE SALAD: Remove the core and coarse 
stems from the romaine head and shred the leaves. In a medium bowl, whisk together the 
olive oil, vinegar, shallot, oregano, and salt. 
Season with pepper and taste and adjust the 
salt if needed. Add the romaine and toss to coat evenly. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the kasha among four 
bowls. Top with the split peas and turmeric vegetables, followed by the salad, and finally the farmer cheese, then serve.
MAKE IT EASY:  Use bottled “Italian” dress-
ing on the salad.87
full bowlsSaffron Quinoa Bowl
saffron  quinoa + Moroccan-spiced  root vegetables + spiced roasted  chickpeas + 
poached  egg + preserved  lemon  gremolata + harissa + dates
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Roast the chickpeas
2. Cook the quinoa
3. Cook the vegetables
4. Make the gremolata
5. Poach the eggs (if using)
6. Assemble the bowls
spiced roasted chickpeas
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can chickpeas, drained 
and rinsed, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked chickpeas 
1 tsp olive oil
1⁄4 tsp salt 
1⁄8 tsp ground coriander (optional)
1⁄8 tsp ground cumin (optional)
1⁄8 tsp ground turmeric (optional)
1⁄8 tsp cayenne pepper (optional)
saffron quinoa
2 cups [480 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
1⁄4 tsp saffron threads
1 Tbsp butter
1 shallot, minced
1 cup [180 g] quinoa, rinsedMoroccan-spiced root vegetables
1 carrot
1 parsnip
1 small-to-medium turnip
1 yellow beet or rutabaga
1 small celery root
2 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil
1 onion, chopped
Salt
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 Tbsp ras el hanout  (North African spice mix) 
1 fresh red hot chile, chopped, or 2 small dried 
hot chiles, such as árbol (optional)
3 cups [720 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
preserved lemon gremolata
Leaves from 8 fresh mint sprigs
Leaves from 10 large fresh flat-leaf 
parsley  sprigs
Rind from 1⁄2 preserved lemon, rinsed and 
finely  chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
4 eggs, poached (page  26), optional
4 Medjool dates, pitted and chopped
Harissa (page  53) or other hot sauce 
for serving
cont’d
88
bowls!FOR THE CHICKPEAS: Preheat the oven to 
375°F [190°C]. Line a baking sheet with 
parchment paper.
Pat the chickpeas dry on several layers of 
paper towels. Put the chickpeas in a bowl, 
drizzle with the olive oil, and toss to coat 
evenly. Sprinkle on the salt and the coriander, 
cumin, turmeric, and cayenne, if using. Toss to coat the chickpeas evenly. Spread the chick-peas in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet. Roast the chickpeas until browned 
and a bit crispy, about 45  minutes. While the 
chickpeas are roasting, cook the quinoa and 
the vegetables.
FOR THE QUINOA: In a medium saucepan  
over medium heat, bring the broth to a sim-mer, sprinkle in the saffron, and remove from the heat. In a medium saucepan over medium-  
high heat, melt the butter. Add the shallot 
and cook, stirring, until it starts to brown, 
about 5  minutes. Add the quinoa and stir to 
coat evenly with the butter. Pour in the warm 
saffron broth, bring to a simmer, cover, turn the heat to low, and cook, undisturbed, until 
the quinoa is tender and fluffy and the broth 
is absorbed, about 20  minutes. Uncover, fluff 
with a fork, and re-cover to keep warm until 
ready to serve. 
FOR THE ROOT VEGETABLES: Peel the carrot, 
parsnip, turnip, beet, and celery root and cut into small bite-size pieces, though keeping them all about the same size is more import-ant than the actual size. In a large sauté pan 
or frying pan over medium-high heat, warm 
the vegetable oil. Add the onion and 
1⁄2 tsp 
salt and cook, stirring, until the onion is soft, 
about 3  minutes. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1  minute. Stir 
in the ras el hanout and chile (if using) and 
cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1  minute. 
Pour in the broth, add the chopped vege-tables, and bring to boil. Lower the heat to 
a simmer and cook until the vegetables are 
tender, about 15  minutes. 
FOR THE GREMOLATA: On a cutting board, 
finely chop the mint and parsley. Add the pre-served lemon and garlic and continue chop-
ping until all of the ingredients are minced 
and blended together. Transfer to a small 
bowl, add the pepper and olive oil, and stir to combine. Season with salt. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the quinoa among four 
bowls. Top the quinoa with the root vege -
tables (transfer them with a slotted spoon or add some of the flavorful broth to the bowl). Add the chickpeas to one side and a poached 
egg, if desired, to the other. Put a hefty 
dollop of gremolata on top. Pass the harissa 
and dates at the table, for everyone to add 
to taste. 
MAKE IT EASY:  Skip the gremolata. It’s deli-
cious, but this bowl has lots of flavor without 
it. You can also use other root vegetable 
combinations (4  to 5 small-to-medium spec -
imens) that you may have on hand (or appeal to you more), including mixes with potatoes 
and/or sweet potatoes. 89
full bowlsVeggie Burrito Bowl
taqueria-style  rice + cilantro  pinto  beans + salsa  fresca + avocado + more
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Soak and cook the beans
2. Cook the rice
3. Make the salsa 
4. Prepare the avocado and other toppings
5. Assemble the bowls
cilantro pinto beans
1 lb [455 g] dried pinto beans 
1 onion, chopped
4 garlic cloves 
1 bay leaf
1 bunch cilantro
Salt
taqueria-style rice
1 large tomato, peeled and puréed
About 3⁄4 cup [180 ml] vegetable broth, or 
as needed 
2 Tbsp olive oil1 small onion, diced
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 cup [200 g] jasmine or basmati ricesalsa fresca
2 tomatoes, seeded and chopped
1 fresh green chile, seeded and minced
1 to 2 Tbsp minced red onion
1 Tbsp fresh lime juice or red wine vinegar
1⁄4 tsp salt
1 or 2 avocados, halved, pitted, peeled, 
and sliced
2 to 4 handfuls shredded romaine lettuce 
Sour cream for serving (optional)
Shredded Monterey Jack or other mild cheese 
for serving
FOR THE BEANS: Put the beans in a large 
bowl, cover them with plenty of cold water, 
and let soak overnight. Drain the beans, put in 
a large pot, and cover with fresh water. Bring 
to a boil over high heat and skim off and 
discard any foam from the surface. Add the 
onion, garlic, and bay leaf. Cut off the leaves 
from the cilantro bunch and save them for the 
salsa and for mixing into the rice. Tie together 
the stems with kitchen string and add to the 
pot. Lower the heat to maintain a steady sim
-
mer and cook the beans until they smell like 
beans and are just tender to the bit and not 
mushy. The overall timing will depend on the 
age of the beans, but you should start testing 
at about 25  minutes. Remove and discard 
the bay leaf and season with salt. Keep warm 
until serving. 
cont’d
90
bowls!FOR THE RICE: While the beans are cooking, 
cook the rice. Measure the puréed tomato 
and add broth as needed to total 13⁄4 cups 
[420 ml]. In a medium saucepan or frying pan 
over medium-high heat, warm the olive oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring, until soft, 
about 3  minutes. Add the garlic and salt, stir 
to combine, and cook until fragrant, about 
1 minute. Add the rice and stir to combine, 
then pour in the tomato-broth mixture and bring to a boil. Cover, turn the heat to low, 
and cook for 15  minutes. Remove from the 
heat and let sit, covered, for 5  minutes. Chop 
enough of the reserved cilantro leaves to measure 
1⁄2 cup. Uncover the rice, scatter the 
cilantro over the top, and stir and toss to mix. 
Keep warm until serving.
FOR THE SALSA: In a medium bowl, combine 
the tomatoes, chile, and red onion and toss  
to mix well. Drizzle the lime juice over the top  
and toss again to mix evenly. If desired, chop 
enough of the reserved cilantro leaves to 
measure 1⁄3 cup [10 g], add to the bowl, and 
toss to mix. Season with the salt, then taste and adjust with more salt if needed. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the rice among four 
bowls. Top the bowls evenly with the pinto 
beans, transferring them from their pan to the 
bowls with a slotted spoon (you want some, but not too much, of the bean liquid to add its flavor to the bowl). Top each bowl with the 
avocado and lettuce to taste, a dollop of sour 
cream (if using), the salsa, a scattering of 
cheese, and any remaining cilantro. 
MAKE IT EASY:  Rinsed and drained canned 
beans, simply heated up, as well as store-
bought salsa make quick work of this bowl. 91
full bowlsBread-Free Leblebi 
seeded  bulgur  pilaf + soupy  chickpeas + wilted  frisée + toasted  cumin + 
poached  egg + harissa
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the pilaf
2. Cook the chickpeas
3. Wilt the frisée 
4. Poach the eggs
5. Assemble the bowls
seeded bulgur pilaf
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil
1⁄2 tsp cumin seeds
1⁄2 tsp yellow or brown mustard seeds
1⁄2 tsp nigella seeds
1⁄2 tsp sesame seeds
1 small onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 cup [140 g] bulgur 
11⁄2 cups [360 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
soupy chickpeas
1 tsp olive oil
1 garlic clove, minced
1 large dried red chile (optional)
1 cup [240 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can chickpeas, rinsed and 
drained, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked chickpeas wilted frisée 
1 Tbsp chopped dates or whole dried currants 
1 Tbsp sherry vinegar 
1 Tbsp pine nuts
1 tsp olive oil
1 head frisée, chopped 
4 to 8 eggs (1 or 2 per serving), poached 
(page  26)
2 tsp cumin seeds, toasted in a small dry pan 
until fragrant
Harissa (page  53) or other hot sauce 
for serving 
FOR THE PILAF: Heat a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, add 
the oil and the cumin, mustard, nigella, and 
sesame seeds, cover, and cook until you hear 
the seeds pop, about 1  minute. Add the onion 
and salt, stir to combine everything, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion starts 
to brown, about 5  minutes. Add the bulgur, 
stir to combine, and then add the broth. Bring 
to a boil, cover, turn the heat to low, and cook until the liquid is absorbed and bulgur 
is tender, 15  to 20  minutes. While the pilaf is 
cooking, prepare the chickpeas and frisée.
cont’d
92
bowls!FOR THE CHICKPEAS: In a medium sauce-
pan over medium-high heat, combine the 
olive oil, garlic, and chile (if using) and cook, 
stirring, until the garlic starts to turn golden, 
about 1  minute. Add the broth and chickpeas, 
bring to a simmer, adjust the heat to main-
tain a gentle simmer, and let cook until ready 
to serve.
FOR THE FRISÉE: Put the dates in a small 
bowl, sprinkle with the vinegar, and set 
aside.  Heat a large frying pan over medium-  
high heat, add the pine nuts and toast, 
shaking the pan frequently, until the nuts are 
lightly browned, about 3  minutes. Transfer 
to a small bowl or cup. Return the pan to 
medium-high heat, add the olive oil, and swirl 
the pan to coat the bottom. Add the frisée 
and cook, stirring frequently, until wilted, 3  to 
5 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in 
the pine nuts and dates. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the bulgur among four 
bowls. Top with the chickpeas and the frisée. 
Add an egg or two to each bowl, sprinkle 
with the cumin seeds, and serve immediately. 
Pass the harissa at the table.93
full bowlsBlack Pepper Tofu Bowl
gingered  coconut  brown  rice + black  pepper  tofu + lemongrass  roasted  broccoli + 
carrot  daikon  slaw + frizzled  shallots
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the rice
2. Make the slaw
3. Roast the broccoli
4. Fry the shallots
5. Cook the tofu
6. Assemble the bowls
gingered coconut brown rice
1-in [2.5-cm] piece fresh ginger, peeled
1 cup [200 g] brown jasmine rice
One 14-oz [420-ml] can unsweetened 
coconut  milk
3⁄4 cup [180 ml] water
1⁄4 tsp salt
carrot daikon slaw
1⁄2 large carrot, peeled and grated
1⁄2 large daikon, peeled and grated
1 Tbsp sugar
1⁄2 tsp salt
3 Tbsp rice vinegarlemongrass roasted broccoli 
1 lemongrass stalk, lower bulb portion only, 
tough outer leaves removed and minced
2 Tbsp fish sauce
2 Tbsp brown sugar
1 garlic clove, minced
1 fresh Thai chile, seeded and minced
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
1 bunch broccoli, about 11⁄4 lb [570 g], cut into 
bite-size florets
frizzled shallots
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] canola, peanut, or vegetable oil 
2 shallots, thinly sliced
black pepper tofu
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] fish sauce
2 Tbsp brown sugar
1 Tbsp freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp canola, peanut, or vegetable oil 
1 lb [455 g] block tofu, cut into bite-size pieces 
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] water
cont’d
95
full bowlsFOR THE RICE: Using the flat side of a cleaver 
or other large knife or a meat mallet, smash 
the ginger. In a medium saucepan, combine 
the ginger (and any juices you can capture), rice, coconut milk, water, and salt, stir to combine, and bring to a boil over high heat, 
stirring frequently. Turn the heat to low, cover, 
and cook until the liquid is absorbed and the 
rice is tender, about 45  minutes. Remove the 
pan from the heat and let sit, covered, for 
10 minutes. 
FOR THE SLAW: Combine the carrot and 
daikon in a large bowl. Sprinkle with the 
sugar and salt, stir and toss to combine, and then pour in the vinegar. Stir again to mix 
well, pushing the vegetables under the liquid. 
Let sit for at least 30  minutes (or cover and 
chill for up to 1  week). Drain and squeeze dry 
before serving.
FOR THE ROASTED BROCCOLI: Preheat 
the oven to 375°F [190°C]. In a large bowl, 
combine the lemongrass, fish sauce, brown sugar, garlic, chile, and oil and stir to dissolve the sugar. Add the broccoli and toss to coat 
evenly with the marinade. Spread the broccoli 
in a single layer in a roasting pan or baking 
sheet. Roast until browned and tender, about 
20 minutes.FOR THE SHALLOTS: Line a plate with a few 
layers of paper towels. In a wide medium 
saucepan over medium-high heat, warm the 
oil until a shallot slice dropped into the hot oil 
sizzles on contact and browns in 1  to 2 min-
utes without burning. Add the shallots and 
let them sizzle and bob in the oil, stirring a bit 
to keep them from clumping, until browned, 
5 to 8 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, trans -
fer them to the towel-lined plate to drain. Pour off all but 1 Tbsp of the oil (discard 
the oil or reserve this shallot-infused oil for 
another use) and use the same pan and the 
oil for the  tofu.
FOR THE TOFU: In a small bowl, combine the 
fish sauce, brown sugar, and black pepper and stir to dissolve the sugar. Return the pan 
used for the shallots to medium-high heat. When the pan is hot, add the sauce mixture. It should sizzle immediately. Add the tofu, stir 
to coat with the sauce, and pour in the water. 
Bring to a boil and cook, stirring frequently, 
until the liquid reduces by about one-quarter, 
about 5  minutes.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the rice among four 
bowls. Top with the tofu, including some of the sauce, and the broccoli. Add the slaw, garnish with the shallots, and serve. 96
bowls!Spanish Shrimp 
red lentil  quinoa  pilaf + smoked  paprika  shrimp + escarole  salad + corn
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the pilaf
2. Make the salad
3. Cut corn kernels from cob(s)
4. Cook the shrimp
5. Assemble the bowls
red lentil quinoa pilaf
2 Tbsp olive oil
1 cup [180 g] quinoa
1⁄4 cup [30 g] pine nuts
2 garlic cloves, minced
1⁄4 tsp red pepper flakes (optional)
1⁄2 cup [105 g] red lentils, rinsed 
2 cups [480 ml] chicken broth
escarole salad
1 tsp cumin seeds1 garlic clove, minced
1 Tbsp sherry vinegar
3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
Salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 head escarole, cored and torn into bite-size 
piecessmoked paprika shrimp
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tsp hot paprika
1 tsp smoked paprika
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 lb [455 g] peeled and deveined shrimp
1 Tbsp olive oil
Kernels from 1 (or 2!) ear corn for garnish 
FOR THE PILAF: In a medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat, combine the olive oil, 
quinoa, and pine nuts and stir until the qui
-
noa and pine nuts are lightly toasted, about 
3 minutes. Add the garlic and pepper flakes 
(if using) and continue stirring until fragrant, 
about 1  minute. Add the lentils and the broth 
and bring to a boil. Cover, turn the heat to 
low, and cook until the liquid is absorbed 
and the quinoa and lentils are tender, about 
20 minutes. Uncover and fluff with a fork. 
Serve hot, warm, or at room temperature.
FOR THE SALAD: Heat a small frying pan 
over high heat. When the pan is hot, add the 
cumin seeds and cook, shaking the pan con
-
stantly, until toasted, about 1  minute. Transfer 
the cumin seeds to a mortar, let them cool 
slightly, and crush them with a pestle (or put 
them on a cutting board and crush them with 
a meat mallet or the bottom of a small, heavy 
frying pan).
cont’d
98
bowls!Put the crushed cumin seeds, garlic, vine -
gar, and olive oil in a large bowl. Whisk to 
combine, then season with salt and pepper. 
Add the escarole and toss to coat evenly. 
Set aside. 
FOR THE SHRIMP: In a medium bowl, stir 
together the garlic, hot and smoked paprika, and salt. Add the shrimp and toss to coat 
evenly with the spices. Let sit for 5  to 10  min-
utes. Heat a large frying pan over medium- 
high heat and add the olive oil. When the oil 
is hot, add the shrimp and cook, turning once, 
until they are pink and opaque, about 2  min-
utes. Remove from the heat. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the pilaf among four 
bowls. Arrange the shrimp on top of one side 
of the pilaf and the escarole on top of the 
other side. Scatter the corn kernels over all 
and serve.99
full bowlsORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Make the tomato confit
2. Cook and marinate the mussels
3. Cook the quinoa
4. Toast the bread crumbs
5. Assemble the bowls
tomato confit
8 tomatoes
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] olive oil
3 garlic cloves
3 fresh thyme sprigs
1⁄2 tsp salt
marinated mussels
1 small onion, chopped
1 cup [240 ml] dry white wine
1 cup [240 ml] water
2 lb [910 g] small mussels, scrubbed and 
debearded
2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 Tbsp chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
2 tsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 tsp drained capers, rinsed
1⁄4 tsp dry mustard
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 celery stalk, mincedgarlicky green quinoa
1 Tbsp olive oil
1 shallot, minced
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 cup [30 g] packed spinach leaves, chopped
1 cup [180 g] white quinoa, rinsed 
2 cups [480 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
1⁄4 cup [10 g] minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
8 fresh chives, minced
4 large butter lettuce leaves, torn into 
bite-size  pieces
1⁄4 cup [30 g] Buttered Bread Crumbs (page  61)
FOR THE CONFIT: Preheat the oven to 325°F 
[165°C]. Cram the tomatoes into an 8-inch 
[20-cm] square baking dish. Pour the olive oil 
over them. Tuck the garlic cloves and thyme 
sprigs in among the tomatoes and sprinkle 
the tomatoes evenly with the salt. Bake for 
1 hour, spooning the oil in the dish over the 
tomatoes a few times if you think of it. Lower 
the heat to 250°F [120°C] and continue 
to cook until the tomatoes collapse, about 
1 hour longer.Mussels Matter
garlicky  green  quinoa + marinated  mussels + tomato  confit + butter  lettuce + 
buttered  bread  crumbs
cont’d
100
bowls!FOR THE MUSSELS: Put the onion, wine, 
and water in a large pot and bring to a boil 
over high heat. Lower the heat to maintain a 
simmer and cook until the liquid is reduced by half. Add the mussels (discarding any that fail to close to the touch), cover, and 
cook until they open, 3  to 5 minutes. Using a 
slotted spoon, lift the mussels out of the pot and transfer to a large bowl. Let sit until cool enough to handle, then remove the mussels from their shells (discard any mussels that 
haven’t opened). Discard the shells and the 
cooking liquid. 
In a medium bowl, combine the lemon juice, 
parsley, olive oil, capers, mustard, and pepper 
and mix well. Add the mussels and toss to 
coat evenly. Add the celery and toss again. Let 
sit for at least 5  minutes or up to 20  minutes.FOR THE QUINOA: In a medium saucepan or 
a large frying pan over medium-high heat, warm the olive oil. Add the shallot and cook, 
stirring frequently, until soft, about 3  minutes. 
Add the garlic and cook, stirring often, until 
fragrant, about 1  minute. Add the spinach and 
cook until the leaves wilt and the liquid they give off evaporates. Add the quinoa and stir 
to combine. Pour in the broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn the heat to low, and cook, undis -
turbed, until the quinoa is tender and fluffy 
and the liquid is absorbed, about 20  min-
utes. Uncover, fluff with a fork, and stir in the 
 parsley and chives. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the quinoa among four 
bowls. Arrange the mussels and tomatoes 
side by side on the quinoa. Garnish with the 
lettuce and bread crumbs and serve.
MAKE IT EASY:  If the long-cooking confit 
isn’t on your agenda, simple chopped fresh 
tomatoes are pretty darn tasty here, too.101
full bowlsInca Bowl
spiced  roasted  sweet  potatoes + ceviche + leche  de tigre + chopped  cilantro  salad + 
microgreens + Peruvian  corn nuts + ají  chile
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Roast the sweet potatoes
2. Make the leche de tigre
3. Make the ceviche
4. Make the salad 
5. Assemble the bowls
spiced roasted sweet potatoes
3 large sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into bite-
size cubes
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil
1⁄2 tsp ground red chile
leche de tigre
2⁄3 cup [160 ml] fresh lime juice
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] water
2 garlic cloves, chopped
1⁄2 ají or habanero chile, seeded
ceviche
11⁄2 lb [680 g] fish fillet, peeled and deveined 
shrimp, sea scallops, and/or cleaned calamari, 
cut into bite-size pieceschopped cilantro salad
1 small red onion, chopped
1 bunch cilantro, chopped
4 celery stalks, chopped
2 Tbsp olive oil
Salt 
2 oz [55 g] microgreens or sprouts 
2 oz [55 g] quicos  (Peruvian corn nuts) 
1 ají or habanero chile, stemmed, seeded, and 
sliced into thin rings
FOR THE SWEET POTATOES: Preheat the 
oven to 400°F [200°C]. Spread the sweet 
potatoes in a single layer on a baking sheet. 
Drizzle with the oil and toss to coat evenly. 
Sprinkle with the ground chile and toss to 
distribute as evenly as possible. Spread the 
potatoes again into a single layer. Roast, 
turning the cubes as needed, until tender and 
browned on all sides, about 45  minutes.
FOR THE LECHE DE TIGRE: In a blender, whirl 
together the lime juice, water, garlic, and chile 
until smooth. Measure out 2 tsp to use for 
the salad. Reserve the remainder, about 3⁄4 cup 
[180 ml], for the ceviche.
cont’d
103
full bowlsFOR THE CEVICHE: In a medium bowl, com-
bine the fish and/or seafood and the reserved 
leche de tigre, stir gently to mix well, cover, 
and refrigerate for about 15  minutes.
FOR THE SALAD: In a medium bowl, toss 
together the onion, cilantro, and celery. Drizzle with the olive oil and the reserved 
2 tsp leche de tigre and toss to coat the 
salad  evenly. Season with salt. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the sweet potatoes 
among four bowls. Top with the ceviche (use a slotted spoon to transfer to the bowls) 
and spoon the salad alongside the ceviche. 
 Garnish with the microgreens and corn nuts 
and serve. Pass the chile at the table, for 
 diners to add more if they dare.104
bowls!Sweet and Crunchy Salmon 
Swiss  chard–barley  pilaf + maple-glazed  salmon + fennel  green  apple  salad + 
chickpeas + pecans
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the pilaf 
2. Roast the salmon
3. Make the fennel salad
4. Assemble the bowls
Swiss chard–barley pilaf
1 bunch Swiss chard
2 Tbsp butter
6 green onions, white and green parts, finely 
chopped 
1 cup [200 g] pearled barley, rinsed
3 cups [720 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
maple-glazed salmon
One 12-oz [340-g] salmon fillet
1 Tbsp maple syrup
1 Tbsp Dijon mustard
1⁄8 tsp salt
fennel green apple salad
1 bulb fennel
1 small green apple
1 tsp fresh lemon juice
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper (optional)
1 cup [240 g] drained and rinsed canned 
chickpeas or drained home-cooked chickpeas 
(page  22) Chopped fresh dill or flat-leaf parsley 
for garnish
1⁄3 cup [40 g] pecans, toasted and chopped
FOR THE PILAF: Preheat the oven to 375°F 
[190°C]. Cut the stems off of the chard 
leaves. Finely chop the stems and the leaves, 
keeping them separate. In a frying pan over 
medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the 
green onions and chard stems and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until softened, about 
3 minutes. Add the barley and stir to mix. 
Pour in the broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn 
the heat to low, and cook for 25  minutes. 
Uncover, scatter the chard leaves over the top 
(don’t stir!), re-cover, and continue cooking 
over low heat until the leaves are cooked and 
the barley is tender, about 10  minutes longer. 
Uncover, stir the chard leaves into the barley, 
and allow any excess liquid to cook off. 
FOR THE SALMON: Place the fillet in a  baking 
dish just large enough to accommodate it. 
In a small bowl, whisk together the maple 
syrup, mustard, and salt until blended. Brush 
or spread the syrup mixture on top of the 
salmon. Roast the salmon until the glaze is 
browned and the fish is just cooked through, 
10 to 15  minutes; the timing will depend on 
the thickness of the fillet. 
cont’d
106
bowls!FOR THE SALAD: Trim away the core and 
any stalks from the fennel, then cut the bulb 
lengthwise into quarters. Halve and core the 
apple. Using a mandoline or a sharp knife, cut the fennel quarters into thin slices and then cut the apple halves into thin slices. Stack a 
few of the apple slices at a time and cut into 
thin sticks. Put the fennel and apple pieces in 
a bowl, drizzle with the lemon juice, and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper.TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the pilaf among four 
bowls. Cut the salmon into four pieces. Place 
one piece in each bowl, or flake each piece 
and add to the bowl. Pile the salad and chick-peas around the salmon. Garnish with the dill and pecans and serve.107
full bowlsTuna on Toasted Quinoa
toasted  quinoa  pilaf + tuna + steamed  beets  with their  greens + cannellini  beans + 
hard-boiled  eggs + mustard  vinaigrette + olives + radishes
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Hard-boil the eggs for topping
2. Cook the quinoa
3. Steam the beets
4. Make the dressing
5. Assemble the bowls
toasted quinoa pilaf
2 Tbsp butter
1 cup [180 g] quinoa
2 cups [480 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
steamed beets with their greens
1 bunch baby beets with greens attached
1⁄2 tsp finely grated orange zest
1 tsp fresh orange juice
1⁄4 tsp salt
mustard vinaigrette
5 Tbsp [80 ml] canola or vegetable oil 
2 Tbsp cider vinegar
1 Tbsp Dijon mustard
1⁄2 tsp honey or maple syrup
Salt and freshly ground black pepperand more
One 5-oz [140-g] can olive oil-packed tuna, 
drained 
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can cannellini beans, rinsed 
and drained, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked white beans (page  22) 
2 to 4 Hard-Boiled Eggs (page  27), peeled and 
quartered lengthwise
8 to 12 green olives, pitted and chopped
8 radishes, cut into little wedges
FOR THE QUINOA: In a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the 
quinoa and cook, stirring frequently, until it 
is toasted and browned, 3  to 5 minutes. Pour 
in the broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn the 
heat to low, and cook, undisturbed, until the 
quinoa is tender and fluffy and the liquid is 
absorbed, about 20  minutes. Uncover and 
fluff with a fork.
cont’d
109
full bowlsFOR THE BEETS: Cut off the greens and chop 
them into bite-size pieces. Peel and dice the 
beets. Select a pot in which a steamer basket 
or colander will fit. Pour water into the pot 
to a depth of 1 in [2.5  cm] and bring to a boil 
over high heat. Put the beets in the basket or 
colander, set it over the boiling water, cover, 
and cook until almost tender, about 5  min-
utes. Strew the chopped greens on top of the 
beets, re-cover, and cook until the greens are wilted and the beets are fully tender, about 
5 minutes longer. Transfer the beets and 
greens to a bowl, add the orange zest and juice and salt, and toss to coat evenly. FOR THE VINAIGRETTE: In a small bowl, whisk 
together the oil, vinegar, mustard, and maple 
syrup. Season with salt and pepper. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the quinoa among four 
bowls. Arrange the tuna, beets and greens, 
and beans in three separate and equal sec-
tions on top of the quinoa. Top with the eggs, 
drizzle on the vinaigrette, garnish with the olives and radishes, and serve.110
bowls!Summer in a Bowl
spicy  sautéed  corn + yogurt-marinated  chicken + ezme  salad + tzatziki
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Marinate the chicken
2. Make the tzatziki
3. Make the salad
4. Cook the corn
5. Grill the chicken
6. Assemble the bowls
yogurt-marinated chicken
1 garlic clove, sliced
2 Tbsp plain whole-milk yogurt
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1⁄4 tsp salt
Freshly ground black pepper
11⁄2 lb [680 g] boneless, skinless chicken 
(preferably thighs), cut into bite-size pieces
tzatziki 
1 large English or other slicing cucumber
3⁄4 cup [180 ml] plain yogurt (preferably whole 
milk)
1 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 tsp red wine vinegar
1 garlic clove, minced
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 Tbsp finely chopped fresh dill (optional)ezme salad 
1⁄2 cup [60 g] walnut pieces 
3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 Tbsp red wine vinegar or cider vinegar
1⁄2 tsp salt
2 sweet red bell peppers, seeded and finely 
chopped
2 tomatoes, seeded and finely chopped
1 shallot, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 cup [10 g] fresh flat-leaf parsley leaves, 
minced
1⁄2 tsp red pepper flakes (optional)
spicy sautéed corn
6 ears corn1 Tbsp vegetable oil 
1⁄2 tsp brown or yellow mustard seeds
1⁄8 tsp fenugreek seeds
2 serrano chiles, thinly sliced
1⁄4 tsp ground turmeric (optional)
Salt
1⁄4 cup [10 g] chopped fresh cilantro (optional)
Fresh basil leaves, torn into pieces, for garnish
111
full bowlsTO MARINATE THE CHICKEN: In a medium 
bowl, whisk together the garlic, yogurt, 
lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste. Add 
the chicken to the yogurt mixture, turn to 
coat evenly, cover, and refrigerate for at least 
30 minutes or up to overnight. 
About 30  minutes before serving, ready the 
grill to cook the chicken. Prepare a fire in a 
charcoal or gas grill for direct-heat cooking over medium-high heat. (You should be able 
to hold your hand about 1 in [2.5  cm] above 
the cooking grate for 3  to 4 seconds before 
you must pull it away.) If using bamboo skew-ers rather than metal skewers, be sure to soak 
them in water for about 30  minutes before 
threading the chicken onto them.
FOR THE TZATZIKI: Peel the cucumber, halve 
lengthwise, and scoop out any seeds. Using the large holes of a box grater, shred the 
cucumber into a large bowl. For a less watery 
salad, sprinkle the cucumber with some salt, 
let sit for about 20  minutes, then drain the 
cucumber, squeezing the shreds to release 
any excess liquid, and transfer to a dry bowl. 
Stir in the yogurt, olive oil, vinegar, and garlic. 
Season with salt and pepper and stir in the 
dill, if using.
FOR THE SALAD: Put the walnuts between two 
pieces of parchment paper or in a plastic bag 
and use a rolling pin to crush finely. (Alterna-
tively, pulse them in a food processor, being careful not to turn them into a paste.) In a medium bowl, stir together the olive oil, vine-
gar, and salt. Add the bell peppers, tomatoes, 
shallot, and garlic and toss and stir to mix 
well. Add the parsley, toss again, and stir in the walnuts. If you like things spicy, stir in the pepper flakes.FOR THE CORN: To remove the kernels from 
the corn ears, one at a time, stand each ear 
on its stem end in a wide, shallow bowl. Using 
a large, sharp knife, slice down the length of 
the ear, rotating the ear after each cut. 
In a large frying pan over medium-high heat, 
warm the vegetable oil. When the oil is hot, 
add the mustard and fenugreek seeds, cover, and cook until you hear the seeds pop, about 
1 minute. Add the chiles and cook, stirring 
constantly, until fragrant, about 30  seconds. 
Stir in the turmeric and then the corn kernels and cook, stirring constantly, until the corn is well mixed with the spices. Cover, turn the heat to low, and cook until the corn is ten-
der to the bite, about 5  minutes. Uncover, 
increase the heat to high, and cook, stirring occasionally and scraping any browned bits from the bottom of the pan, until the corn starts to brown. Season with salt and stir in 
the cilantro, if using. Keep warm. 
TO GRILL THE CHICKEN: Thread the chicken 
pieces (let the marinade cling to them) 
onto skewers. Oil the cooking grate. Set the 
skewers on the grate directly over the fire 
and cook, turning once, until browned and 
cooked through, 4  to 5 minutes per side.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the corn among four 
bowls. Slide the chicken off the skewers and 
add it to the bowls. Dollop on the tzatziki and 
the salad, garnish with the basil, and serve.
MAKE IT EASY:  Skip firing up the grill and 
instead cook the chicken on a stove-top grill 
pan over medium-high heat or under a pre-
heated broiler about 4 in [10  cm] from the 
heating element. The same timing will work. 112
bowls!Kalefornia Bowl
sautéed  white  beans + cabbage  kale slaw + roast  chicken + avocado + 
serrano  chile  vinaigrette + peanuts
ORDER OF OPERATIONS 
1. Make the vinaigrette
2. Make the slaw
3. Cook the beans
4. Shred the chicken
5. Slice the avocado and chop the peanuts
6. Assemble the bowls
serrano chile vinaigrette
1 serrano chile, seeded and chopped
1 garlic clove, chopped
6 Tbsp [90 ml] vegetable oil
2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
cabbage kale slaw
1 bunch Tuscan kale
1⁄4 head savoy cabbage
sautéed white beans
2 Tbsp olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 fresh rosemary sprig
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can white beans, rinsed  
and drained, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked white beans (page  22) 
Salt and freshly ground pepper
2 to 3 cups [220  to 330 g] shredded cooked 
chicken, from a home-roasted bird (page  36)  
or purchased rotisserie bird
1 avocado, halved, pitted, peeled, and sliced
1⁄3 cup [40 g] roasted peanuts, finely choppedFOR THE VINAIGRETTE: In a blender, whirl 
together the chile, garlic, vegetable oil, and 
lime juice until smooth. Season with salt 
and pepper.
FOR THE SLAW: Trim the thick stems from the 
kale and core the cabbage. Cut the kale and 
cabbage into ribbons as finely as possible. Put 
the ribbons in a large bowl and squeeze them 
by the handful, “massaging” them to soften 
their texture a bit. Add about half of the vin
-
aigrette, toss to combine, and let sit for about 
10 minutes.
FOR THE BEANS: In a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat, warm the olive oil, swirling 
the pan to coat the bottom. Add the garlic 
and cook, stirring constantly, until just start
-
ing to turn golden, about 1  minute. Add the 
rosemary and beans and cook, stirring, until 
beans are heated through and some brown 
bits form, 3  to 5 minutes. Remove and discard 
the rosemary and season the beans with salt and pepper.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the beans among four 
bowls. Top with the slaw and arrange the 
chicken and avocado on the slaw. Drizzle with 
the remaining vinaigrette, sprinkle with the 
peanuts, and serve.
NOTE : If the chile vinaigrette sounds too 
spicy for your palate, use Lemon Garlic 
Vinaigrette (page  54) or Peanut Sauce 
(page  55). 
115
full bowlsNutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl 
nutted  farro + shredded  chicken + marinated  mushrooms + lemony  carrots + 
sugar  snap  peas + avocado + feta
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Marinate the mushrooms
2. Cook the farro 
3. Cook the carrots
4. Prep the chicken, peas, avocado, and cheese
5. Assemble the bowls
marinated mushrooms
8 oz [230 g] button or cremini mushrooms
1 tsp fennel seeds
5 Tbsp [80 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
3 Tbsp white wine vinegar
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
nutted farro
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 cup [120 g] mixed nuts (almonds, pistachios, 
walnuts, and pine nuts)
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp ground coriander
1⁄2 tsp ground cumin
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 cup [180 g] semipearled or whole-grain farro 
1 cup [240 ml] dry white wine
21⁄2 cups [600 ml] vegetable or chicken brothlemony carrots
1 Tbsp butter6 carrots, peeled and cut into coins
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] water
1 tsp fresh lemon juice
1⁄2 tsp finely grated lemon zest
Salt
2 cups [220 g] shredded cooked chicken, from 
a home-roasted bird (page  36) or purchased 
rotisserie bird6 oz [170 g] sugar snap peas, cut into 
bite-size  pieces
1 avocado, halved, pitted, peeled, and sliced
1⁄3 cup [50 g] crumbled feta cheese 
FOR THE MUSHROOMS: Trim off the stem 
ends from the mushrooms, then halve or 
quarter the mushrooms if large. You want the 
pieces truly bite size. Put the fennel seeds in 
a mortar and gently crush them with a pestle 
(or put them on a cutting board and crush 
them with a meat mallet or the bottom of a 
small, heavy frying pan).
cont’d
bowls!
116In a large glass jar or a medium bowl, com-
bine the olive oil, vinegar, fennel seeds, salt, 
and pepper. If using a jar, screw on the lid and 
give the jar a few good shakes to combine 
everything. If using a bowl, whisk everything 
together. Add the mushrooms, cover, and 
shake the jar, or stir to coat with the marinade 
in the bowl. Let the mushrooms sit for at least 
30 minutes, shaking or stirring them every 
10 minutes or so to recoat them with the mar -
inade. They can be served after 30  minutes 
or can be refrigerated for up to 3  days before 
serving. 
FOR THE FARRO: In a large frying pan with a 
tight-fitting lid, combine the olive oil, onion, 
and salt over medium heat and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the onion is soft, about 
3 minutes. Increase the heat to high, add 
the nuts, and cook, stirring constantly, until 
the nuts start to toast. The onion may brown 
a bit, which is fine, but lower the heat if it 
starts to char at all. Add the garlic and cook, 
stirring, until fragrant, about 30  seconds. Add 
the coriander, cumin, and pepper and cook, 
stirring, until the spices are fragrant, about 
30 seconds. Add the farro and stir to com -
bine. Pour in the wine and cook, stirring, until 
absorbed, about 2  minutes. Pour in the broth 
and bring to a boil. Cover, turn the heat to low, and cook until the farro is tender to the 
bite, about 20  minutes for semipearled farro 
and up to 50  minutes for whole-grain farro. FOR THE CARROTS: In a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the 
carrots and stir to coat with the butter. Add 
the water, cover, and cook until the carrots are 
tender, about 5  minutes. Uncover and cook 
until the liquid has evaporated. Remove from the heat, add the lemon juice and zest, and 
stir to mix. Season with salt. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the farro among four 
bowls. Arrange the chicken, mushrooms (lift 
out of the marinade with a slotted spoon), 
and carrots in three separate and equal sec-
tions on top of the farro. Top with the snap peas and avocado. Drizzle on a bit of the mushroom marinade as the sauce. Garnish 
with the feta and serve.117
full bowlsZoodle Taco Salad
zucchini  noodles + spiced  ground  turkey + roasted  chile  guacamole + 
cherry  tomatoes + chile  citrus  sauce
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Prep the zucchini
2. Mash the guacamole
3. Make the sauce
4. Cook the turkey
5. Cook the zucchini
6. Assemble the bowls
zucchini noodles
2 large or 3 medium zucchini 
1 Tbsp butter
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
roasted chile guacamole
2 small-to-medium avocados, halved, pitted, 
and peeled
1 jalapeño or other hot green chile, roasted, 
peeled, seeded, and chopped, or about 1 Tbsp 
canned chopped green chile
1 garlic clove, minced
1 Tbsp fresh lime juice
Salt
chile citrus sauce
1 habanero chile, seeded and sliced (for less 
spice) or minced (for more spice) 
2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1 Tbsp fresh orange juice
1⁄4 tsp saltspiced ground turkey
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tsp ground cumin
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 tsp cayenne pepper
1 lb [455 g] ground turkey 
1⁄4 tsp salt
1⁄3 cup [15 g] chopped fresh cilantro
Juice of 1⁄2 lime
12 cherry tomatoes, halved, for garnish
TO CUT THE ZUCCHINI NOODLES: Trim both 
ends off of each zucchini. One at a time, 
using a mandoline or a sharp knife, thinly 
each zucchini lengthwise, then cut the slices 
into long, narrow noodle-like strips (or use a 
spiralizer, if you have one). Transfer the strips 
to a medium bowl, cover, and set aside until 
ready to serve. 
FOR THE GUACAMOLE: In a medium bowl, 
combine the avocados, chile, garlic, and 
lime juice and mash with a fork until smooth 
(or a bit chunky, if you like your guacamole 
chunky). Season with the salt. 
FOR THE SAUCE: In a small bowl, combine 
the chile, lime juice, orange juice, and salt 
and mix well.
cont’d
118
bowls!
118FOR THE TURKEY: In a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat, warm the oil. Add the 
garlic and cook, stirring, until it sizzles and is 
fragrant, about 30  seconds. Add the cumin 
and cayenne and stir to combine. Add the 
turkey and salt and cook, stirring frequently 
and breaking the meat up as you go, until 
browned and cooked through, about 5  min-
utes. Stir in the cilantro and lime juice, remove 
from the heat, and keep warm. 
TO COOK THE ZUCCHINI: In a large frying pan 
over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the oil and swirl the pan to combine with the butter. Add the zucchini and cook, tossing gently to coat evenly, until warmed through, about 
3 minutes. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the zucchini among 
four bowls. Top with the turkey and then with 
the guacamole and cherry tomatoes and 
serve. Pass the sauce at the table for every -
one to sprinkle on to taste. 
If everyone at the table is extra hungry, you 
can bulk up this bowl by adding one 14½-oz 
[415-g] can black beans, drained and rinsed, 
or 1¾ cups [420 g] drained Drunken Black 
Beans (page  24).121
full bowlsBudapest Bowl
mushroom  barley  pilaf + paprika-braised  chicken + dilled  white  beans + 
sweet  pepper  slaw + sour  cream + dill
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the chicken
2. Make the pilaf
3. Make the slaw
4. Heat the beans
5. Assemble the bowls
paprika-braised chicken
1 lb [455 g] boneless, skinless chicken thighs
2 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
2 Tbsp butter
1 onion, thinly sliced
2 Tbsp mild Hungarian paprika 
1 tsp hot paprika, or 1⁄2 tsp cayenne pepper
1 cup [240 ml] chicken, vegetable, or 
mushroom  broth
mushroom barley pilaf
8 oz [230 g] button or cremini mushrooms
2 Tbsp butter
1 small onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp fine sea salt
1 cup [180 g] pearled barley, rinsed
3 cups [720 ml] chicken, vegetable, or 
mushroom brothsweet pepper slaw
3 bell peppers (a mix of red, orange,  
and yellow is nice)
3 Tbsp canola or olive oil 
1 Tbsp white wine vinegar
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
dilled white beans
One 141⁄2-oz [415-g] can white beans, rinsed and 
drained, or 13⁄4 cups [420 g] drained home-
cooked white beans (page  22) 
1⁄2 cup [20 g] chopped fresh dill
Freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] sour cream
Chopped fresh dill for garnish
FOR THE CHICKEN: Preheat the oven to 
375°F [190°C]. Pat the chicken dry. In a large 
frying pan or sauté pan with a tight-fitting lid, 
warm the oil over medium-high heat. Add the 
chicken and cook, undisturbed, until it starts 
to brown on the underside, 3  to 4 minutes. 
Turn the pieces over and brown on the second 
side, 3  to 4 minutes longer. Transfer the 
chicken to a plate. Add the butter to the same 
pan and melt over medium-high heat. Add 
the onion and cook, stirring, until soft, about 
3 minutes. Add the mild and hot paprika and 
cook, stirring, to coat the onion. Pour in the 
broth and bring to a boil.
cont’d
122
bowls!Return the chicken to the pan, cover, and 
transfer to the oven. Bake the chicken until 
it is very tender, about 30  minutes. Remove 
from the oven, uncover, and use a wooden 
spoon to separate the chicken into shreds (that’s how tender it should be). Place the pan 
on the stove top over medium heat and cook, 
uncovered, until the sauce is reduced by one-
third, about 20  minutes. 
FOR THE PILAF: Begin the pilaf while the 
chicken is in the oven. Trim off the stem ends from the mushrooms, then cut off the stems. 
Finely chop the stems and thinly slice the caps. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the onion and salt 
and cook, stirring frequently, until the onion 
is soft, about 3  minutes. Increase the heat to 
high, add the mushroom stems and caps, and 
cook, stirring frequently, until the mushrooms 
release their liquid, about 5  minutes.
Add the barley and stir to mix everything well. Pour in the broth and stir again to mix. Bring to a boil, then lower the heat to maintain a steady simmer, cover partially, and cook, 
stirring every few  minutes, until the liquid 
is absorbed and the barley is tender, about 
30 minutes. If the liquid is absorbed before 
the barley is tender, add up to 1 cup [240 ml] water, 
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] at a time.FOR THE SLAW: Seed and thinly slice the pep-
pers. In a medium bowl, whisk together the oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Add the peppers 
and toss to combine.
FOR THE BEANS: In a medium saucepan over 
medium heat, warm the beans until hot (or 
put them in a microwave-safe bowl and heat 
them in the microwave). Add the dill, season 
with pepper, and toss to mix well. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the pilaf among four 
bowls. Arrange the chicken, beans, and slaw 
in three separate and equal sections on top 
of the pilaf. Dollop the sour cream on the 
chicken and sprinkle everything with the dill.
NOTE : Want to gild the comfort lily? Try this 
with Mashed Potatoes (page  46) instead of 
barley pilaf.123
full bowlsORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Marinate the chicken
2. Put the rice on to cook
3. Cook the chicken
4. Prep the salad 
5. Ready the garnishes
6. Finish the salad
7. Assemble the bowls
mirin-braised chicken thighs
1 Tbsp soy sauce
1 Tbsp mirin
1 tsp freshly grated ginger
1⁄2 tsp red chile flakes
11⁄2 lb [680 g] boneless, skinless chicken thighs, 
cut into bite-size pieces
1 cup short-grain or sweet brown rice
seared Brussels sprout leaf salad
1 lb [455 g] Brussels sprouts
1 garlic clove, minced
2-in [5-cm] piece fresh ginger, peeled and finely 
grated
1 serrano chile, minced
2 Tbsp fresh lime juice
1 Tbsp fish sauce
1⁄4 tsp saltgarnishes
2 tsp sesame seeds
2 Tbsp raw peanuts
2 Tbsp canola, vegetable, or peanut oil
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
2 green onions, white and green parts, chopped
FOR THE CHICKEN: In a medium bowl, com - 
bine the soy sauce, mirin, ginger, and pepper 
flakes and mix well. Add the chicken, stir to 
coat evenly, cover, and let sit at room tem
-
perature for 30  to 60  minutes or refrigerate 
for up to overnight.
FOR THE RICE: Plan to put the rice on to cook 
about 1  hour before serving, following the 
directions for brown rice on page  15. 
TO COOK THE CHICKEN: Heat a medium pot 
or a wok over medium heat. When the pot is 
hot, dump in the chicken and its marinade. 
When the mixture begins to simmer, turn the 
heat to medium-low or low to maintain a very 
gentle simmer. Cook, stirring every now and 
again, until the chicken is cooked through and 
very tender, about 35  minutes.Tea Salad–Style Bowl (with Chicken!)
rice + mirin-braised  chicken  thighs + seared  Brussels  sprout  leaf salad + 
sesame  seeds + toasted  peanuts + golden  garlic + green  onions
cont’d
124
bowls!
FOR THE SALAD: Peel off and discard any 
damaged leaves from the Brussels sprouts, 
then trim off the stems. Peel off as many 
layers of leaves from each sprout as you can until you reach the core, slice the core length-wise as thinly as possible, and use both the 
leaves and sliced cores. (For quicker prep, just 
thinly slice the sprouts.)
To make the dressing for the salad, in a 
medium bowl, stir together the garlic, gin-
ger, chile, lime juice, and fish sauce. Set the 
sprouts and dressing aside separately. 
FOR THE GARNISHES: Heat a large cast-iron 
pan over medium-high heat. Add the sesame 
seeds and cook, stirring, until toasted, 1  to 
2 minutes. Transfer to a plate or bowl.
Add the peanuts to the same pan and cook, 
stirring frequently, until toasted, about 3  min-
utes. Pour the nuts onto a cutting bowl, let cool, and finely chop. 
Line a plate with a few layers of paper tow-
els. Return the same pan to medium-high 
heat and add the oil. When the oil is hot, add 
the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, until 
golden, about 30  seconds. Using a slotted 
spoon, transfer the garlic to the towel-lined 
plate to drain. Pour the oil into a heatproof 
bowl and let cool. TO FINISH THE SALAD: When the oil has 
cooled, pour it into the bowl holding the 
dressing and whisk to mix well. Without 
 wiping out the pan used for the garnishes, 
return the pan to high heat. Add the leaves 
and sliced cores of the Brussels sprouts, 
or the sliced Brussels sprouts, and sprinkle 
with the salt. Cook, stirring now and again, 
until tender and any loose leaves have wilted 
to one-third of their original volume and are 
browned at the edges, 10  to 15  minutes. 
Transfer the sprouts to the bowl holding the dressing and toss well. Let cool until 
just warm.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the rice among four 
bowls. Top half of the rice with the chicken and the other half with the Brussels sprouts. Sprinkle everything with the sesame seeds, peanuts, garlic, and green onions and serve.124127
full bowlsSlurpy Soba Pork Bowl
soba  noodles + soupy  braised  pork + poached  egg + 
pickled  turnips  with their  greens  
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the pork
2. Pickle the turnips
3. Chop the greens
4. Shred the pork
5. Cook the noodles
6. Poach the eggs
7. Assemble the bowls
soupy braised pork
2-lb [910-g] piece boneless pork shoulder  
or butt
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
3 garlic cloves, crushed
1 large dried hot chile
One 12-fl oz [360-ml] bottle beer
pickled turnips with their greens
8 baby turnips with their greens
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 tsp rice vinegar
Pinch of sugar
1 tsp toasted sesame oil 
1⁄2 tsp red pepper flakes (optional)
12 oz [340 g] dried soba noodles 
4 eggsFOR THE PORK: Sprinkle the pork all over 
with the salt and let sit for at least 15  minutes 
or cover and refrigerate for up to overnight. Bring to room temperature before proceed
-
ing. Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C].
In a Dutch oven or other large, heavy pot over 
medium-high heat, warm the oil. When the oil 
is hot, add the pork and cook, undisturbed, 
until well browned on the underside, 3  to 
5 minutes. Turn the pork over and brown on 
the second side, 3  to 5 minutes longer. Con -
tinue to turn the pork as needed to brown all 
over. Add the garlic, chile, and beer and use 
a wooden spoon to scrape up any browned 
bits on the bottom of the pot. Cover, transfer 
to the oven, and braise until the pork is very 
tender, about 2  hours. 
FOR THE TURNIPS: Cut the greens from the 
turnips and set the greens aside. Trim the 
turnips and cut each turnip into eight wedges. 
Put the wedges in a bowl, sprinkle with the 
salt, and let sit for 30  minutes. Pat the wedges 
thoroughly dry (you can rinse them first if 
you don’t like things too salty), then rinse and 
dry the bowl. Add the vinegar, sugar, sesame 
oil, and the pepper flakes, if you want a spicy 
version, to the bowl and whisk to mix well. 
Add the turnips and toss to coat evenly. Let 
sit for at least 30  minutes or up to overnight. 
Cut the turnip greens into fine ribbons.
cont’d
128
bowls!TO FINISH THE PORK: When the pork is 
ready,  remove the pot from the oven. Trans -
fer the pork to a cutting board or a platter 
and use two forks to pull it apart into shreds. Remove and discard the chile from the pot and mash the garlic into the cooking juices. 
Return the pork to the cooking juices and stir 
to coat evenly. Cover to keep warm. 
FOR THE NOODLES AND EGGS: Cook the 
noodles as directed on page  19 and drain.  
At the same time, poach the eggs as directed 
on page  26.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the noodles among 
four bowls. Top with pork and its pan juices 
and then with a poached egg. Arrange 
some turnip wedges to one side of the egg 
and some turnip greens to the other side, 
then serve. You cannot find baby turnips with their 
greens attached? Buy topped turnips and  
1 bunch of any other fairly hearty green,  
like mustard or kale. 129
full bowlsMinnesota Hotdish Bowl
wild rice black  lentil  pilaf + sausage + creamy  mushroom  sauce + garlicky  chard + 
toasted  walnuts
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the wild rice
2. Cook the sausage
3. Make the mushroom sauce
4. Cook the chard
5. Toast the walnuts
6. Assemble the bowls
wild rice black lentil pilaf
1 cup [180 g] wild rice 
4 cups [960 ml] water or chicken or vegetable 
broth 
1 tsp salt (if using water) 
1⁄2 cup [80 g] black lentils
2 garlic sausages
creamy mushroom sauce
2 Tbsp butter
1 small onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 lb [455 g] button or cremini mushrooms, 
trimmed and sliced
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream
Leaves from 3 fresh thyme sprigs
Freshly ground black peppergarlicky chard
1 bunch Swiss chard, about 10 oz [280 g]1 Tbsp butter
1 garlic clove, sliced
Salt
1⁄2 cup [65 g] walnut pieces 
FOR THE WILD RICE: Put the wild rice and the 
water or broth in a pot; if using water, add 
the salt. Bring to a boil over high heat. Add 
the lentils and bring back to a boil. Cover, 
lower the heat to maintain a steady simmer, 
and cook until the wild rice and the lentils are 
tender, about 45  minutes. Uncover and cook, 
stirring, to cook off any excess liquid.
FOR THE SAUSAGES:  In a large frying pan 
over medium heat, cook the sausages, turn
-
ing as needed, until browned and cooked 
through, 4  to 5 minutes per side. Transfer to 
a plate and cover with aluminum foil. Don’t 
wash the pan!
cont’d
130
bowls!130FOR THE MUSHROOM SAUCE: Return the pan 
you used for the sausages to medium heat and  
add the butter. When the butter melts, add 
the onion and salt and cook, stirring and scraping up any browned bits from the pan bottom as you go, until the onion is soft, 
about 3  minutes. Add the garlic and mush -
rooms and cook, stirring frequently, until the liquid the mushrooms release evaporates and the mushrooms begin to brown, about 
10 minutes. Add the cream and thyme and 
simmer until thickened, about 5  minutes. 
Season with pepper and with more salt if needed. Remove from the heat and cover to keep warm. 
FOR THE CHARD: Cut the stems off of the 
chard leaves. Chop the stems and the leaves, keeping them separate. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add the garlic and chard stems, cover, and 
cook until the stems have softened, about 
3 minutes. Add the leaves, stir to combine, 
and cook, stirring frequently, until the leaves 
and stems are tender, 3  to 5 minutes. Season 
with salt.FOR THE WALNUTS: In a small frying pan over 
medium-high heat, toast the walnuts, shaking 
the pan frequently, until they start to smell 
toasty and take on a bit of color, 3  to 5 min-
utes. Take care not to let them darken too 
much in the pan, as they will continue to toast 
when you take them off the heat. Pour into a 
small bowl. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the wild rice among 
four bowls. Cut the sausages into bite-size 
slices and divide evenly among the bowls. 
Pour the mushroom sauce over the sausage 
and wild rice. Top with the chard and then 
the walnuts and serve.133
full bowlsSizzling Beef Bowl
sesame  brown  rice + sizzling  beef + charred  vegetables + watercress + 
pepper  lime sauce
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Marinate the beef
2. Cook the rice
3. Prep the vegetables
4. Make the sauce 
5. Cook the vegetables
6. Cook the beef
7. Assemble the bowls
sizzling beef
1 to 11⁄2 lb [455  to 680 g] beef tenderloin or 
sirloin, cut into 1-in [2.5-cm] cubes
4 garlic cloves, chopped
2 Tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
1 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] rice wine or white wine 
3 Tbsp soy sauce
1 Tbsp fish sauce
2 Tbsp canola oil
1 Tbsp unsalted butter
sesame brown rice
3 cups [720 g] water
1 cup [200 g] sweet brown rice
1⁄4 tsp salt
1 Tbsp sesame seedspepper lime sauce
2 limes
1⁄4 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
charred vegetables
1 Tbsp canola oil1 Tbsp butter
2 zucchini, trimmed, halved lengthwise, and cut 
crosswise into 1-in [2.5-cm] pieces
2 handfuls of green beans, about 8 oz [230 g], 
trimmed and cut into 2-in [5-cm] pieces
2 green onions, white and green parts, cut into 
2-in [5-cm] pieces
1⁄2 tsp fine sea salt
2 cups [55 g] watercress leaves
TO MARINATE THE BEEF: Put the meat in a 
medium bowl. Sprinkle with the garlic, 1 Tbsp 
of the sugar, the salt, and the pepper and toss 
to coat evenly. Cover and let sit for about 
30 minutes at room temperature or refriger -
ate for up to 1  day.
In a small bowl, whisk together the wine, soy 
sauce, fish sauce, and the remaining 1 Tbsp 
sugar and set aside until ready to cook. 
cont’d
134
bowls!FOR THE RICE: In a medium saucepan over 
high heat, combine the water, rice, and salt. 
Bring to a boil, stir, cover, turn the heat to 
low, and cook, undisturbed, for 45  minutes. 
Remove from the heat—leave the lid on!—
and let sit for 10  to 15  minutes. The grains will 
be tender and the liquid will be absorbed. 
While the rice is cooking, in a small frying pan 
over medium heat, toast the sesame seeds, shaking the pan frequently, until fragrant and 
just turning golden, 1  to 2 minutes. Remove 
from the heat and pour into a small bowl. When the rice is ready, uncover, fluff with a fork, and gently stir in the sesame seeds. Cover to keep warm while you prepare the 
remaining components.
FOR THE SAUCE: Halve the limes and juice 
the halves into a small bowl. Whisk in the salt 
and pepper.
FOR THE VEGETABLES: In a large frying pan 
over high heat, warm together the canola oil 
and butter. When the butter is melted, add the zucchini, green beans, and green onions, 
spreading them in a single layer as much as 
possible. Sprinkle with the salt. Cook, undis-
turbed, until well browned on the underside, 
about 3  minutes. Turn the vegetables and 
brown on the second side, about 3  minutes 
longer. Remove from the heat and cover to 
keep warm.TO COOK THE BEEF: Heat a wok or other a 
large, heavy sauté pan over high heat. When the pan is hot, add the oil. When the oil shim-
mers, swirl the pan to coat with the oil, then add the beef in a single layer. Cook the beef, undisturbed, until well browned on the under-
side, about 4  minutes. Turn the pieces and 
cook until browned on the second side, about 
4 minutes longer. Using a slotted spoon, 
transfer the beef to a medium bowl. 
Return the pan to medium-high heat, add 
the wine mixture, and use a wooden spoon 
to scrape up any browned bits from the pan bottom. Simmer until the liquid is reduced by 
one-third, just a few  minutes. Add the butter, 
shaking the pan until the butter melts and 
incorporates with the sauce, and then add the 
beef and any accumulated juices back into the pan. Stir to coat the beef with the sauce. Remove from the heat. 
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the rice among four 
bowls. Arrange the beef on one side of the rice and the vegetables on the other side. Spoon the beef pan sauce over the beef. 
Strew the watercress evenly over the top and 
serve. Pass the lime sauce at the table for 
diners to drizzle on their bowls as they like.135
full bowlsORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Make the pilaf
2. Make the dressing
3. Prep the sauerkraut
4. Prep toppings
5. Chop and heat the pastrami  
6. Assemble the bowls
caraway rye pilaf
1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
1 onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp salt
1 tsp caraway seeds
1 cup [200 g] rye kernels
3 cups [720 ml] chicken or vegetable broth 
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Russian dressing
1⁄2 cup [115 g] mayonnaise
2 Tbsp ketchup
2 tsp prepared horseradish
1⁄2 to 1 tsp hot sauce
1⁄2 tsp Worcestershire sauce
1⁄4 tsp mild paprika 
1 cup [150 g] drained sauerkraut
2 medium-size dill pickles, chopped
1⁄2 cup [55 g] shredded Swiss cheese 
8 oz [230 g] pastrami, chopped FOR THE PILAF: In a large frying pan over 
medium-high heat, warm the oil. Add the 
onion and salt and cook, stirring occasion
-
ally, until the onion is soft, about 3  minutes. 
Add the caraway seeds and cook, stirring 
frequently, until the caraway smells toasted, 
about 2  minutes. Add the rye kernels and stir 
to combine. Pour in the broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn the heat to low, and cook until the 
kernels are tender to the bite, about 45  min-
utes. Stir in the pepper and remove from the 
heat. Cover to keep warm.
FOR THE DRESSING: In a small bowl, com - 
bine the mayonnaise, ketchup, horseradish, 
hot sauce to taste, Worcestershire sauce, and 
paprika and stir to mix well. 
FOR THE SAUERKRAUT: Using your hands (or 
wrap the sauerkraut in a clean kitchen towel), 
squeeze out as much excess moisture from 
the sauerkraut as possible. 
FOR THE PASTRAMI: Put the pastrami in a 
small frying pan, cover, place over medium-
 
low heat, and heat, uncovering to stir once 
 
or twice, until hot, 2  to 3 minutes.Reuben Bowl
caraway  rye pilaf + pastrami + sauerkraut + pickle + Swiss  cheese + Russian  dressing
cont’d
136
bowls!136TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the pilaf among four 
bowls. Top with the pastrami, pile on the 
sauerkraut, and sprinkle on the pickles. Drizzle 
with the dressing, strew with the cheese, 
and serve. 
MAKE IT EASY:  Rye kernels can be tricky  
to track down. Barley or farro is a tasty substi-
tute here. See pages 15 and 17, respectively,  
for the timing for these grains. Also, if you  
are really pressed for time, use bottled Russian dressing.139
full bowlsRice-Free Korean Grill 
ribboned  kale + Korean-spiced  steak + kimchi-style  Brussels  sprouts + 
roasted  red onion + watermelon  radishes + sesame  seeds  
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Make the Brussels sprouts
2. Roast the onions
3. Prep the steak
4. Cook the steak
5. Prep the kale
6. Slice the radishes
7. Assemble the bowls
kimchi-style Brussels sprouts
1 lb [455 g] Brussels sprouts
11⁄2 tsp salt
1 small garlic clove, minced
1 Tbsp gochugaru  (Korean red chile flakes)
2 to 3 tsp sugar
1 tsp rice vinegar1 tsp toasted sesame oil
roasted red onions
2 small red onions1 Tbsp canola or vegetable oilKorean-spiced steak
1 garlic clove, minced1 Tbsp 
gochugaru  (Korean red chile flakes) 
1 Tbsp toasted sesame oil
1 Tbsp soy sauce
1 Tbsp mirin
11⁄2 to 2 lb [680  to 910 g] chateaubriand steak, 
trimmed of excess fat2 tsp canola, cold-pressed sesame, or 
vegetable  oil
ribboned kale
1 bunch Tuscan kale
1⁄4 tsp canola or cold-pressed sesame oil 
1⁄4 tsp salt
1 large watermelon radish, peeled and 
thinly  sliced
2 tsp sesame seeds, toasted
FOR THE BRUSSELS SPROUTS: Peel off the 
darker green outer leaves from the Brussels 
sprouts, then trim off the stems. Cut the 
sprouts lengthwise into halves or quarters. 
Put the pieces into a colander set over a 
large  bowl, sprinkle with the salt, and toss 
gently  to combine. Let sit for at least 1  hour 
or up to several  hours. (The salt will draw 
water out of  the sprouts. It won’t be a huge 
amount, given their dense texture, but it will 
be some, which will soften them a bit.) 
cont’d
140
bowls!Lay the sprouts on a clean kitchen towel or 
on layers of paper towels and roll up tightly 
to squeeze out even more water. Transfer the 
sprouts to a medium bowl, add the garlic, 
gochugaru , sugar (use the larger amount if 
you generally like a little more sweetness), 
rice vinegar, and toasted sesame oil, and toss 
to mix thoroughly. Cover and refrigerate for 
at least 1  hour or up to 1  week.
FOR THE ONIONS: Preheat the oven to 450°F 
[230°C]. Peel the onions and cut each onion into eight wedges. Oil a baking pan that will 
accommodate the onion wedges without crowding them. Set the wedges in the pan and turn them until they are coated on all sides 
with oil. Roast until browned on the edges and 
tender, about 20  minutes. Remove from the 
oven and let sit until ready to use.
FOR THE STEAK: In a baking pan large 
enough to hold the steak, combine the garlic, 
gochugaru , toasted sesame oil, soy sauce, and 
mirin. Add the steak, turning it to coat with 
the marinade. Let sit for at least 10  minutes or 
up to 30  minutes.The steak can be cooked on the stove top, under the broiler, or on a grill. To panfry: 
Preheat a large cast-iron frying pan or other 
heavy frying pan over high heat and add the canola oil. When the oil shimmers, swirl the pan to coat it with the oil, then add the steak, 
with the marinade clinging to it. It should 
sizzle immediately. Cook until a brown crust 
forms on the underside, about 5  minutes. 
Flip the steak and cook until browned on 
the second side, about 5  minutes longer, for 
rare. If you like your steak done medium-rare, 
cook for 6  minutes on each side; for medium, 
7 minutes on each side; for well-done go 
toward 8  to 9 minutes on each side.
TO BROIL: Set an oven rack about 3 in 
[7.5 cm] from the heating element and 
preheat the broiler. Set the steak, with the 
marinade clinging to it, on a baking sheet or broiler pan and slip under the broiler. Cook, 
turning it once, until browned on both sides, 
about 5  minutes on each side for rare. If you 
like your steak done medium-rare, cook for 
6 minutes on each side; for medium, 7  min-
utes on each side; for well-done go toward 
8 to 9 minutes on each side.141
full bowlsTO GRILL: Prepare a fire in a charcoal or 
gas grill for direct-heat cooking over high 
heat. (You should be able to hold your hand 
about  1 in [2.5  cm] above the cooking grate 
for 1 to 2 seconds before you must pull it 
away.) Oil the cooking grate. Set the steak 
on the grate directly over the fire and cook, 
turning it once, until grill marks form on both 
sides, 5  minutes for rare. If you like your 
steak  done medium-rare, cook for 6  minutes 
on each side; for medium, 7  minutes on each 
side; for well-done go toward 8  to 9 minutes 
on each  side. 
Let the steak rest for at least 10  minutes and 
up to 20  minutes before cutting it against the 
grain into slices for adding to the bowls. 
FOR THE KALE: While the steak rests, trim the 
thick stems from the kale and cut the leaves 
into ribbons as finely as possible. Put the rib -
bons in a large bowl, drizzle with the oil, and 
toss to coat evenly. Sprinkle with the salt and 
toss again. Use your hands to squeeze and massage the kale by the handful to soften it. It should reduce in volume by about one-half. TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the kale among four 
bowls. Top with the steak slices and drizzle 
on any accumulated steak juices. Arrange the 
Brussels sprouts and roasted onions to either side of the steak. Garnish with the radish slices, sprinkle the entire surface with the 
sesame seeds, and serve. 
MAKE IT EASY: Use store-bought kimchi 
instead of the Brussels sprouts and raw onion 
slices instead of the roasted wedges.143
full bowlsBetter-than-a-Kebab
lemony  freekeh + minted  meatballs + chopped  cucumber  salad + baked  eggplant + 
sumac + cherry  tomatoes + white  garlic  sauce
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Brine the eggplant
2. Make the sauce 
3. Bake the eggplant
4. Cook the freekeh
5. Prep the meatballs
6. Make the salad
7. Cook the meatballs
8. Assemble the bowls
baked eggplant
4 cups [960 ml] water
1 Tbsp salt
1 globe eggplant, trimmed and sliced crosswise
white garlic sauce
1 head garlic
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 tsp salt
1 cup [240 ml] canola oil
lemony freekeh
1 cup [180 g] freekeh
2 cups [480 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 tsp finely grated lemon zestminted meatballs
11⁄2 lb [680 g] ground meat (lamb is lovely here, 
but beef or turkey will work, too)
1 small onion
4 garlic cloves, minced
1⁄2 cup [15 g] fresh mint leaves, minced
2 Tbsp mild paprika
2 tsp ground cumin
3⁄4 tsp salt
1⁄4 tsp cayenne pepper (optional)
1 to 2 Tbsp canola or vegetable oil 
chopped cucumber salad
1 large English or other slicing cucumber, peeled, 
halved lengthwise, seeded, and chopped
1 tsp minced fresh mint
1 tsp rice vinegar
1 tsp extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
1 tsp ground sumac 
1 cup [150 g] grape or cherry tomatoes, halved
cont’d
144
bowls!TO BRINE THE EGGPLANT: Pour the water 
into a bowl large enough to accommodate 
the eggplant slices. Add the salt and stir to 
dissolve. Put the eggplant slices in the salted water and top the eggplant with a plate slightly smaller than the diameter of the bowl 
to keep them submerged. Let sit for about 
30 minutes. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 
400°F [200°C]. Spray a baking sheet with 
olive oil cooking spray.
FOR THE SAUCE: Separate the head of garlic 
into cloves and peel the cloves. If you want to tame the sharp garlic flavor of this sauce, bring a small saucepan filled with water to a boil over high heat, add the garlic cloves, 
blanch for 1  minute, drain, and proceed 
with the recipe. If you prefer to keep the flavor intense, skip this step and use raw 
 garlic  (I do!). In a blender, combine the garlic, 
lemon juice, and salt and whirl until more or 
less smooth. With the blender running on 
medium speed, add the canola oil in a very 
slow, steady stream. The oil will blend with the garlic mixture, resulting in an almost-fluffy and brilliantly white sauce. Cover and 
set aside. Garlic lovers will want to dollop this 
sauce on at will, but they need to make sure 
that anyone they kiss later has eaten it, too. TO BAKE THE EGGPLANT: Drain the egg-
plant slices and pat them thoroughly dry. 
Set the eggplant slices on the prepared pan 
in a single layer and spray the tops with cooking spray. Bake the slices, turning them 
once after 15  minutes, until browned on both 
sides and tender, about 30  minutes total. If 
the slices fail to brown but are tender, turn on the broiler, position the oven rack about 
3 in [7.5  cm] from the heating element, and 
broil the slices on both sides until browned. 
Remove from the oven, let cool, and cut into 
narrow strips. Set aside. 
FOR THE FREEKEH: Heat a medium, heavy 
saucepan over medium-high heat. When the 
pan is hot, add the freekeh and cook, stirring 
or shaking the pan often, until the freekeh is 
toasted and fragrant, about 3  minutes. Add 
the broth and bring to a boil. Cover, turn the 
heat to low, and cook, undisturbed, until the 
liquid is absorbed and the freekeh is tender, 
20 to 25  minutes. Remove from the heat, 
uncover, fluff with a fork, and stir in the lemon 
juice and zest. Re-cover and let sit until serv-ing, then fluff again just before serving. 145
full bowlsTO PREP THE MEATBALLS: In a large bowl, 
break up the ground meat into small pieces. 
Using the large holes of a box grater, grate 
the onion onto the meat. Sprinkle the garlic, mint, paprika, cumin, salt, and cayenne (if using) over the meat and onion, then, using 
your fingers, gently mix everything together. 
Divide the mixture into twelve equal portions. 
Roll each portion into a ball between your palms and place on a platter or baking sheet. 
(Dampening your hands with water will help 
keep the meat from sticking to them.) Set 
aside while you make the salad.
FOR THE SALAD: In a medium bowl, com-
bine the cucumber, mint, vinegar, and olive 
oil and toss to mix well. Season with salt and 
mix again. 
TO COOK THE MEATBALLS: Heat a large fry-
ing pan over medium-high heat. Add 1 Tbsp of the oil to the pan and swirl the pan to coat the 
bottom evenly. Add the meatballs and cook, turning them as needed and adding a little more oil if necessary to prevent sticking, until 
browned all over and cooked through, about 
8 minutes total.TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the freekeh among four 
bowls. Arrange three meatballs on the center 
of the freekeh in each bowl. Put the cucumber 
salad and the eggplant on either side of the meatballs. Sprinkle the sumac over every-thing, finish with the tomatoes, and serve. 
Pass the garlic sauce at the table. 
Bulgur (page  16) works equally well as  
a base, as would a bed of raw or sautéed 
shredded greens. If the garlic sauce sounds 
too intense, try Herbed Yogurt Sauce 
(page  146) instead.146
bowls!Cauliflower Couscous Bowl 
spiced  cauliflower  “couscous” + garam  masala  lamb  patties + garlic-
braised  artichokes + spinach + tomatillo  chile  relish + herbed  yogurt  sauce
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the artichokes
2. Make the sauce
3. Make the relish
4. Cook the cauliflower
5. Cook the lamb
6. Assemble the bowls
garlic-braised artichokes
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] fresh lemon juice
4 artichokes
1 cup [240 ml] water
1⁄4 cup [60 ml] extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 tsp salt
2 garlic cloves, minced
Leaves from 6 fresh mint sprigs, minced
1 fresh thyme sprig
herbed yogurt sauce
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] plain whole-milk yogurt
1 garlic clove, minced
2 Tbsp minced fresh cilantro
1 Tbsp minced fresh mint
1⁄4 tsp salt
1 tsp olive oil
1⁄2 tsp fresh lemon juicetomatillo chile relish
2 tomatillos, husks removed and rinsed
1 jalapeño chile
1 garlic clove
1⁄4 tsp salt
spiced cauliflower “couscous”
1 head cauliflower2 Tbsp butter
1 onion, finely chopped
1⁄2 tsp ground cumin
1⁄2 tsp ground coriander
1⁄4 tsp ground turmeric
1⁄2 tsp ground ginger
garam masala lamb patties
1 lb [455 g] ground lamb
1 garlic clove, minced
2 tsp garam masala
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 cup [30 g] baby spinach or arugula leaves
FOR THE ARTICHOKES: Fill a large bowl with 
water and add 1⁄4 cup [60 ml] of the lemon 
juice. Working with one artichoke at a time, 
trim off the end of the stem and then pull 
off the outer leaves until you reach a solid 
2-in [5-cm] cone of very light green (almost 
cont’d
148
bowls!yellow) leaves. Cut off the prickly deeper 
green tops of the leaves. Using a paring 
knife, trim off all of the dark and medium 
green areas around the base of the artichoke 
and the stem. Cut the trimmed artichoke 
lengthwise into quarters, scoop out the fuzzy 
choke from each quarter, and slip the quar-
ters into the lemon water. Repeat with the 
remaining  artichokes. 
Put the remaining 1⁄4 cup [60 ml] lemon juice 
in a saucepan large enough to hold all of the artichokes and add the water, olive oil, salt, 
garlic, mint, and thyme. Bring to a boil over high heat, add the artichokes, and adjust the heat to maintain a steady simmer. Cook 
the artichokes, stirring now and again, until 
they are tender when pierced with the tip of 
a knife, 20  to 30  minutes. Remove from the 
heat and cover to keep warm or let come to 
room temperature.
FOR THE SAUCE: In a medium bowl, combine 
the yogurt, garlic, cilantro, mint, salt, olive oil, and lemon juice and stir to mix well. Let sit for 
at least 10  minutes or up to 1  hour to allow the 
flavors to blend.
FOR THE RELISH: Mince the tomatillos, chile, 
and garlic (or pulse them in a food proces-sor). Transfer to a bowl and stir in the salt. 
Set aside.
FOR THE CAULIFLOWER: Trim the cauliflower 
and break it into florets. Put the florets in a food processor and pulse until they break 
down into grain-like bits. (I have found the 
cauliflower breaks apart fairly quickly, but 
usually one or two pieces remain whole. I solve this by dumping the “couscous” into a large bowl, pulling out the large pieces, and 
pulsing those until they break down, too.) 
In a large frying pan over medium-high heat, 
melt the butter. Add the onion and cook, stir-
ring frequently, until browned on the edges, 
about 5  minutes. Add the cumin, coriander, 
turmeric, and ginger and stir to combine. Add the cauliflower and cook, stirring fre-
quently, until warmed through, about 5  min-
utes. Remove from the heat and cover to 
keep  warm.
FOR THE LAMB: In a medium bowl, break up 
the lamb into small pieces. Sprinkle with the garlic, garam masala, salt, and pepper and, 
using your fingers, gently mix everything 
together. Divide into eight or twelve equal 
portions and pat each portion into a patty 
1⁄2 inch [12 mm] thick.
Heat a large frying pan over medium-high 
heat. When the pan is hot, add the patties and 
cook, turning once, until browned on both 
sides and cooked through, about 4  minutes 
per side.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the cauliflower among 
four bowls. Arrange the lamb, artichokes, and spinach in three separate and equal sections on top of the cauliflower. Add dollops of the 
relish and the yogurt sauce and serve. 
MAKE IT EASY:  The artichokes are deli-
cious, but the bowl is still perfectly tasty (and 
has tons of flavor) without them. A store-
bought green salsa could easily stand in for the tomatillo relish.149
full bowlsCardamom Lamb Bowl
browned  garlic  bulgur + roasted  eggplant  salad + shredded  cardamom  lamb + 
yogurt + pomegranate  seeds
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
1. Cook the lamb 
2. Cook the eggplant
3. Cook the bulgur
4. Make the eggplant salad
5. Assemble the bowls
shredded cardamom lamb
2 lamb shanks
1⁄2 tsp salt
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tsp vegetable oil
1 tsp Sichuan peppercorns (optional)
4 cardamom pods 
3 garlic cloves
2 whole cloves
1 star anise pod
1 cup [240 ml] dry red wine
1 cup [240 ml] chicken or vegetable broth
1 Tbsp butter (optional)
roasted eggplant salad
1 medium eggplant
2 green onions, white and green parts, minced 
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄3 cup [7 g] fresh mint or cilantro leaves, 
chopped
1 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
Salt browned garlic bulgur 
1 cup [140 g] bulgur 
1⁄4 tsp salt
11⁄2 cups [360 ml] boiling water
3 Tbsp butter
1 garlic clove, minced
1⁄2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup [120 ml] plain whole-milk yogurt
Seeds from 1 pomegranate
FOR THE LAMB: Preheat the oven to 375°F 
[190°C]. Sprinkle the lamb shanks all over 
with the salt and pepper. Select an ovenproof 
pot or frying pan with a tight-fitting lid that 
will accommodate the lamb shanks without 
crowding. Add the vegetable oil and warm 
over medium heat. Add the shanks and cook, 
turning them as needed, until browned all
 
over, about 10  minutes. Add the Sichuan pepper-  
corns (if using), cardamom, garlic, cloves, 
and star anise and pour in the wine. Cover, 
transfer to the oven, and cook until the lamb 
is extremely tender and pulling away from the 
bone, about 11⁄4 hours.
cont’d
151
full bowlsRemove from the oven and transfer the lamb 
shanks to a plate. Remove and discard the 
cardamom, cloves, star anise, and as many of 
the peppercorns as you can from the cooking juices. Mash the garlic into the cooking juices and then place the pot over medium-high 
heat. Whisk in the broth, adjust the heat to 
maintain a simmer, and cook, whisking now 
and again, until the sauce is reduced by half. Whisk in the butter, if using. Meanwhile, use a fork to pull the meat off the bones and pull it 
into shreds. When the sauce is reduced, add 
the meat, stir to combine, and keep warm.
FOR THE EGGPLANT SALAD: Put the eggplant 
on a baking sheet, place in the oven with 
the lamb, and roast until it starts to collapse, 
about 1  hour. Alternatively, place the eggplant 
over the flame of a gas burner on the stove 
top (line the burner with aluminum foil to make cleanup easier) and roast, turning it as 
needed to char on all sides, until it starts to 
collapse, about 20  minutes. 
Transfer the eggplant to a bowl or rimmed 
plate (it will release juices as it cools) to cool 
slightly until it can be handled. Discard any 
accumulated juices, then peel the eggplant, 
transfer to a cutting board, and chop finely. Transfer to a medium bowl, add the green onions, garlic, mint, olive oil, and lemon juice 
and stir to mix. Season with salt. FOR THE BULGUR: In a medium heatproof 
bowl, combine the bulgur and salt. Add the 
water, cover, and let sit until the bulgur is 
tender and the water is absorbed, about 
20 minutes. (Sometimes a batch absorbs 
less liquid; if the bulgur is tender, drain off 
any excess  water.)
When the bulgur is ready, in a small saucepan 
over medium heat, melt the butter. Once the 
butter has melted, continue heating it, swirling 
the pan, until it starts to brown. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until the butter browns 
evenly and smells toasty but not burned and 
the garlic starts to turn golden, about 1  min-
ute. Stir the garlic and butter and the pepper 
into the bulgur.
TO ASSEMBLE: Divide the bulgur among four 
bowls. Top with the eggplant salad and then 
with the lamb, spooning some of the sauce 
from the lamb over the entire bowl. Garnish with a dollop of the yogurt, sprinkle with the 
pomegranate seeds, and serve.152
bowls!Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85
Aioli, 50
Le Grand Aioli, 68
Almonds
Caramelized Nuts, 62
Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Romesco, 56Simple Supper Bowl, 69
Apples
Falling Leaves Breakfast, 71Fennel Green Apple Salad, 104–6Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Argentine Grill, 68
Artichokes
Cauliflower Couscous Bowl, 
146–48
Garlic-Braised Artichokes, 146–48
Asparagus
Spring Is Sprung, 72
Avocados
Avocado Vinaigrette, 50
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73California Roll, 68Kalefornia Bowl, 112Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
The Refined Hippie, 70Roasted Chile Guacamole, 117Summer Night Supper, 72Veggie Burrito Bowl, 89–90
B
Bacon
Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71
Barley, 15
Budapest Bowl, 121–22Mushroom Barley Pilaf, 121–22Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Swiss Chard–Barley Pilaf, 104
Basil
Basil Pesto, 50–51Basil Vinaigrette, 51
BBQ Marinade, 31
Beans, 21. See also Chickpeas
Basic Dried Beans, 22–23
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73Budapest Bowl, 121–22Charred Vegetables, 133–34Cilantro Pinto Beans, 89Dilled White Beans, 121–22Drunken Black Beans, 24Hippie Southerner, 70Kalefornia Bowl, 112Le Grand Aioli, 68Nordic Niçoise, 69Northern Hunt, 71Old-School Taco Bowl, 72Pot Likker Beans, 23The Refined Hippie, 70Sautéed White Beans, 112soaking, 23Sprightly Fresh, 70Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9Veggie Burrito Bowl, 89–90Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
Beef
Argentine Grill, 68Basic Ground Meat, 38Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Bibimbap Bowl, 68Korean-Spiced Steak, 139–41Meatballs, 38Meat or Chicken on Skewers, 39Minted Meatballs, 143–45New Steak House, 71Old-School Taco Bowl, 72Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41Shredded Meat, 40Sizzling Beef Bowl, 133–34Steak, 40–41
Beets
Steamed Beets with Their Greens, 
107–9
Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9
Bell peppers
Budapest Bowl, 121–22Ezme Salad, 110–11Romesco, 56Rouille, 56–57Summer in a Bowl, 110–11Sweet Pepper Slaw, 121–22
Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45
Bibimbap Bowl, 68
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73Bowls. See also individual recipes
advantages of, 8
components of, 12–13serving sizes and, 9substitutions in, 9
Bread. See also Tortillas
Buttered Bread Crumbs, 61Cumin Pita Crumbles, 61Hand-Torn Croutons, 61
Bread-Free Leblebi, 91–92
Broccoli
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95
Lemongrass Roasted Broccoli, 
93–95
New Steak House, 71
Broccoli rabe
Greens, Magical Greens, 70Sautéed Greens, 47
Brown Rice, 15INDEX
A153
indexBibimbap Bowl, 68
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95California Roll, 68Gingered Coconut Brown Rice, 
93–95
New Steak House, 71Sesame Brown Rice, 133–34Simple Breakfast (or Humble  
Dinner), 71
Simple Supper Bowl, 69Sizzling Beef Bowl, 133–34The Spicy Hippie, 70Tea Salad–Style Bowl (with 
Chicken!), 123–24
Brussels sprouts
Kimchi-Style Brussels Sprouts, 
139–40
Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41Seared Brussels Sprout Leaf 
Salad, 123–24
Tea Salad–Style Bowl (with 
Chicken!), 123–24
Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72
Buckwheat, 16
Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85Kasha-Style Buckwheat, 84–85
Budapest Bowl, 121–22
Bulgur, 16
Bread-Free Leblebi, 91–92
Browned Garlic Bulgur, 149–51Cardamom Lamb Bowl, 149–51Seeded Bulgur Pilaf, 91
Burrito Bowl, Veggie, 89–90
C
Cabbage. See also Sauerkraut
Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85Cabbage Kale Slaw, 112Homemade Kimchi, 63Kalefornia Bowl, 112A Little Bit German Bowl, 69Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Turmeric Vegetables, 84–85Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
Calamari
Ceviche, 101–3Inca Bowl, 101–3
California Roll, 68
Caper Dressing, 51
Caraway Rye Pilaf, 135
Cardamom Lamb Bowl, 149–51
Carrots
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95
Carrot Daikon Slaw, 93–95Lemony Carrots, 115–16Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Cauliflower
Cauliflower Couscous Bowl, 
146–48
Mashed Cauliflower, 45Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Spiced Cauliflower “Couscous,” 
146–48
Cayenne Chicken, 37
Cheese
Feta Vinaigrette, 52
A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83Lemony Grilled Halloumi, 81–83The Minty Goddess, 78–80Nordic Niçoise, 69Northern Hunt, 71Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Old-School Taco Bowl, 72Reuben Bowl, 135–36Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71Chicken
Basic Ground Meat, 38Budapest Bowl, 121–22Cayenne Chicken, 37Garlic Chicken, 37Herb Chicken, 37Kalefornia Bowl, 112Lemon Chicken, 37Meatballs, 38Meat or Chicken on Skewers, 39Mirin-Braised Chicken Thighs, 123Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Paprika-Braised Chicken, 121–22Paprika Chicken, 37Roast Chicken, 36–37Roast Chicken Thighs and/or 
Breasts, 37
Summer in a Bowl, 110–11Tea Salad–Style Bowl (with 
Chicken!), 123–24
Yogurt-Marinated Chicken, 110–11Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
Chickpeas
Bread-Free Leblebi, 91–92Falafel-esque Chickpeas, 78–80The Minty Goddess, 78–80Saffron Quinoa Bowl, 87–88Soupy Chickpeas, 91–92Spiced Roasted Chickpeas, 87–88Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Chiles
Chile Citrus Sauce, 117Harissa, 53Roasted Chile Guacamole, 117Roasted Chile Sauce, 55Romesco, 56Rouille, 56–57Salsa Fresca, 89–90154
bowls!Salsa Verde, 57–58
Serrano Chile Vinaigrette, 112Shatta, 58Sichuan Pepper Vinegar Sauce, 58Tomatillo Chile Relish, 146–48Vietnamese Nuoc Cham, 59
Chimichurri, 51
CilantroChimichurri, 51Chopped Cilantro Salad, 101–3Cilantro-Lime Marinade, 31Cilantro Pinto Beans, 89Inca Bowl, 101–3Salsa Verde, 57–58Shatta, 58
Corn
Spanish Shrimp, 96–98Spicy Sautéed Corn, 110–11Summer in a Bowl, 110–11
Crab
California Roll, 68
Cranberries
North Woods Breakfast, 71Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72
Croutons, Hand-Torn, 61
Cucumbers
Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45
California Roll, 68Chopped Cucumber Salad, 
143–145
Cucumber Tomato Salad, 78–80The Minty Goddess, 78–80Raita, 55Spartan Japanese, 68Tzatziki, 110–11
Cumin Pita Crumbles, 61
D
Daikon
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95Dill
Creamy Dill Sauce, 51Dilled White Beans, 121–22
Dressings. See also Vinaigrettes
Caper Dressing, 51Russian Dressing, 135Tahini Harissa Dressing, 78–80
Duck
Northern Hunt, 71
E
Edamame
Sprightly Fresh, 70
Eggplant
Baked Eggplant, 143–44Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Cardamom Lamb Bowl, 149–51Roasted Eggplant Salad, 149–51
Eggs
Bread-Free Leblebi, 91–92Fried Eggs, 27–28Greens, Magical Greens, 70Hard-Boiled Eggs, 27Le Grand Aioli, 68Poached Eggs, 26Saffron Quinoa Bowl, 87–88Scrambled Eggs, 28Simple Breakfast (or Humble 
Dinner), 71
Simple Supper Bowl, 69Slurpy Soba Pork Bowl, 127–28Soft-Boiled Eggs, 27Spunky Breakfast, 71Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9
Escarole
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73Escarole Salad, 96–98The Refined Hippie, 70Spanish Shrimp, 96–98
Ezme Salad, 110–11F
Falafel-esque Chickpeas, 78–80
Falling Leaves Breakfast, 71Farro, 17
Nutted Farro, 115–16
Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Fennel
Fennel Green Apple Salad, 104–6Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Feta cheese
Feta Vinaigrette, 52The Minty Goddess, 78–80Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Fiddlehead ferns
Spring Is Sprung, 72
Fish, 32
Ceviche, 101–3Grilled Fish, 32Inca Bowl, 101–3Le Grand Aioli, 68Nordic Niçoise, 69Oil-Poached Tuna, 33–34Pan-Seared Fish, 33Seared Tuna, 33Spring Is Sprung, 72Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9
Freekeh, 17
Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Lemony Freekeh, 143–44
Frisée
Bread-Free Leblebi, 91–92Wilted Frisée, 91–92155
indexG
Garam Masala Lamb Patties, 146–48
Garlic
Browned Garlic Bulgur, 149–51
Garlic-Braised Artichokes, 146–48Garlic Chicken, 37Garlicky Green Quinoa, 99–100Garlicky Chard, 129–30Green Garlic Sauce, 52Honey-Garlic Marinade, 31Lemon Garlic Vinaigrette, 54Roasted Garlic Cloves, 64White Garlic Sauce, 143–44
Ginger
Gingered Coconut Brown Rice, 
93–95
Ginger Vinaigrette, 52
Greens. See also individual greens
Greens, Magical Greens, 70Hippie Southerner, 70Sautéed Greens, 47The Spicy Hippie, 70
Gremolata, Preserved Lemon, 87–88
Guacamole, Roasted Chile, 117
H
Halloumi cheese
A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83
Lemony Grilled Halloumi, 81–83
Harissa, 53
Herbs. See also individual herbs
Herb Butter Sauce, 53
Herb Chicken, 37Herbed Lentils, 81–83Herbed Yogurt Sauce, 146–48
Hippie Southerner, 70
Honey-Garlic Marinade, 31I
Inca Bowl, 101–3
K
Kale
Argentine Grill, 68
Cabbage Kale Slaw, 112Kalefornia Bowl, 112Ribboned Kale, 139–141Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Sautéed Greens, 47
Kasha-Style Buckwheat, 84–85
Kimchi
Bibimbap Bowl, 68
Homemade Kimchi, 63Kimchi-Style Brussels Sprouts, 
139–40
Simple Breakfast (or Humble 
Dinner), 71
Korean-Spiced Steak, 139–41
L
Lamb
Basic Ground Meat, 38Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Cardamom Lamb Bowl, 149–51Cauliflower Couscous Bowl, 
146–48
Garam Masala Lamb Patties, 
146–48
Meatballs, 38Meat or Chicken on Skewers, 39Minted Meatballs, 143–45Shredded Cardamom Lamb, 149Shredded Meat, 40
Leblebi, Bread-Free, 91–92
Leche de Tigre, 101Le Grand Aioli, 68Lemongrass Roasted Broccoli, 93–95
Lemons
Lemon Chicken, 37
Lemon Garlic Vinaigrette, 54
Lemony Carrots, 115–16
Lemony Freekeh, 143–44Lemony Grilled Halloumi, 81–83Mint Lemon Quinoa, 78Preserved Lemon Gremolata, 
87–88
Lentils, 22
A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83Herbed Lentils, 81–83A Little Bit German Bowl, 69Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30The Random Hippie, 70Red Lentil Quinoa Pilaf, 96Spanish Shrimp, 96–98The Spicy Hippie, 70Wild Rice Black Lentil Pilaf, 129Winter Warm-Up, 73
Lettuce
Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85Mussels Matter, 99–100Nordic Niçoise, 69Old-School Taco Bowl, 72Shredded Romaine Salad, 84–85Summer Night Supper, 72Veggie Burrito Bowl, 89–90
Limes
Chile Citrus Sauce, 117Cilantro-Lime Marinade, 31Pepper Lime Sauce, 133–34
A Little Bit German Bowl, 69
M
Marinades
BBQ Marinade, 31Cilantro-Lime Marinade, 31156
bowls!Honey-Garlic Marinade, 31
Peanut Marinade, 31Teriyaki Marinade, 31
Meat. See also individual meats
Basic Ground Meat, 38Meatballs, 38Meat or Chicken on Skewers, 39Minted Meatballs, 143–45Shredded Meat, 40
Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30
Mint
Minted Meatballs, 143–45
Mint Lemon Quinoa, 78The Minty Goddess, 78–80Preserved Lemon Gremolata, 
87–88
Mirin-Braised Chicken Thighs, 123
Moroccan-Spiced Root Vegetables, 
87–88
Mushrooms
Budapest Bowl, 121–22
Creamy Mushroom Sauce, 129–30Marinated Mushrooms, 115–16Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30Mushroom Barley Pilaf, 121–22Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Spartan Japanese, 68Spring Is Sprung, 72Winter Warm-Up, 73
Mussels
Marinated Mussels, 99–100Mussels Matter, 99–100
Mustard Vinaigrette, 107–9
N
New Steak House, 71
No-Noodle Bowl, 70Nordic Niçoise, 69Northern Hunt, 71
North Woods Breakfast, 71
Nuoc Cham, Vietnamese, 59
Nuts. See also individual nuts
Caramelized Nuts, 62
Nutted Farro, 115–16Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
O
Oats
Falling Leaves Breakfast, 71Steel-Cut Oats, 19–20
Okra
Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71
Old-School Taco Bowl, 72
Olives
Green Olive Sauce, 53
The Minty Goddess, 78–80Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9
Onions
Browned Onion Split Peas, 84–85Caramelized Onions, 62Quick Pickled Red Onions, 63Roasted Red Onions, 139–40
P
Paprika
Paprika-Braised Chicken, 121–22Paprika Chicken, 37Smoked Paprika Shrimp, 96–98Tomato Paprika Sauce, 59
Parsley
Chimichurri, 51Parsley Walnut Pesto, 54Preserved Lemon Gremolata, 
87–88
Shatta, 58Pastrami
Reuben Bowl, 135–36
Peanuts and peanut butter
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73
Kalefornia Bowl, 112
Peanut Marinade, 31Peanut Sauce, 55The Refined Hippie, 70Sprightly Fresh, 70
Peas
Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85Browned Onion Split Peas, 84–85Nutty Chicken Mushroom Bowl, 
115–16
Pecans
Caramelized Nuts, 62North Woods Breakfast, 71Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Pepper Lime Sauce, 133–34
Pesto
Basil Pesto, 50–51
Parsley Walnut Pesto, 54
Pita Crumbles, Cumin, 61
Polenta, 18
Hippie Southerner, 70
Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71
Pork. See also Bacon; Sausage
Basic Ground Meat, 38A Little Bit German Bowl, 69Meatballs, 38Meat or Chicken on Skewers, 39Shredded Meat, 40Slurpy Soba Pork Bowl, 127–28Soupy Braised Pork, 127157
indexPotatoes
Addis Ababa Lane, 84–85
Le Grand Aioli, 68Mashed Potatoes, 46Nordic Niçoise, 69Root Vegetable Hash, 45Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72Turmeric Vegetables, 84–85
Pot Likker Beans, 23
Q
Quinoa, 18–19
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73Garlicky Green Quinoa, 99–100Greens, Magical Greens, 70A Little Bit German Bowl, 69Mint Lemon Quinoa, 78The Minty Goddess, 78–80Mussels Matter, 99–100The Random Hippie, 70Red Lentil Quinoa Pilaf, 96The Refined Hippie, 70Saffron Quinoa Bowl, 87–88Simple Supper Bowl, 69Spanish Shrimp, 96–98Spring Is Sprung, 72Toasted Quinoa, 64Toasted Quinoa Pilaf, 107Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
R
Radicchio
A Bowl for All Seasons, 73Northern Hunt, 71The Refined Hippie, 70
Raita, 55
The Random Hippie, 70The Refined Hippie, 70
Reuben Bowl, 135–36
Rice. See Brown Rice; White Rice; 
Wild Rice
Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41
Romesco, 56
Rouille, 56–57
Russian Dressing, 135Rye, 19
Caraway Rye Pilaf, 135
Reuben Bowl, 135–36
S
Saffron Quinoa Bowl, 87–88
Salmon
Maple-Glazed Salmon, 104
Spring Is Sprung, 72Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Sauces and salsas, 13, 49. See also 
Dressings; Vinaigrettes
Aioli, 50Basil Pesto, 50–51Chile Citrus Sauce, 117Chimichurri, 51Creamy Dill Sauce, 51Creamy Mushroom Sauce, 129–30Green Garlic Sauce, 52Green Olive Sauce, 53Harissa, 53Herb Butter Sauce, 53Herbed Yogurt Sauce, 146–48Leche de Tigre, 101Parsley Walnut Pesto, 54Peanut Sauce, 55Pepper Lime Sauce, 133–34Preserved Lemon Gremolata, 
87–88
Raita, 55Roasted Chile Sauce, 55Romesco, 56Rouille, 56–57Salsa Fresca, 89–90Salsa Verde, 57–58Sesame Sauce, 54Shatta, 58Sichuan Pepper Vinegar Sauce, 58Tomato Paprika Sauce, 59Vietnamese Nuoc Cham, 59White Garlic Sauce, 143–44
Sauerkraut
Reuben Bowl, 135–36Spunky Breakfast, 71
Sausage
A Little Bit German Bowl, 69Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30North Woods Breakfast, 71
Scallops
Ceviche, 101–3Inca Bowl, 101–3Seared Scallops, 35
Seaweed
California Roll, 68Simple Breakfast (or Humble 
Dinner), 71
Serving sizes, 9
Sesame seeds
California Roll, 68
New Steak House, 71Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41Sesame Brown Rice, 133–34Sesame Sauce, 54
Shallots, Frizzled, 93–95
Shatta, 58
Shrimp
Ceviche, 101–3
Grilled Shrimp, 34Inca Bowl, 101–3158
bowls!Pickled Shrimp, 34–35
Poached Shrimp, 35Roasted Shrimp, 34Smoked Paprika Shrimp, 96–98Spanish Shrimp, 96–98Summer Night Supper, 72Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71
Sichuan Pepper Vinegar Sauce, 58
Simple Breakfast (or Humble  
Dinner), 71
Simple Supper Bowl, 69Sizzling Beef Bowl, 133–34
Soba Noodles, 19
Slurpy Soba Pork Bowl, 127–28
Spartan Japanese, 68
Spaghetti Squash, 47
No-Noodle Bowl, 70
Spanish Shrimp, 96–98
Spartan Japanese, 68
The Spicy Hippie, 70
Spinach
Cauliflower Couscous Bowl, 
146–48
Simple Supper Bowl, 69
Sprightly Fresh, 70
Spring Is Sprung, 72
Sprouts
No-Noodle Bowl, 70
Simple Supper Bowl, 69
Spunky Breakfast, 71
Squash
Charred Vegetables, 133–34
A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83No-Noodle Bowl, 70The Random Hippie, 70Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Shaved Zucchini Salad, 81–83Spaghetti Squash, 47Winter Squash Mash, 48Winter Warm-Up, 73
Steak, 40–41
Argentine Grill, 68
Bibimbap Bowl, 68
Korean-Spiced Steak, 139–41New Steak House, 71Rice-Free Korean Grill, 139–41
Substitutions, 9
Summer in a Bowl, 110–11
Summer Night Supper, 72
Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 104–6
Sweet potatoes
Inca Bowl, 101–3
Root Vegetable Hash, 45Spiced Roasted Sweet Potatoes, 
101
Spunky Breakfast, 71Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72
Swiss chard
Garlicky Chard, 129–30Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30Sautéed Greens, 47Sweet and Crunchy Salmon, 
104–6
Swiss Chard–Barley Pilaf, 104
T
Taco Bowl, Old-School, 72
Taco salads
Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
Zoodle Taco Salad, 117–18
Tahini Harissa Dressing, 78–80
Taqueria-Style Rice, 89–90
Tea Salad–Style Bowl (with 
Chicken!), 123–24
Teriyaki Marinade, 31
Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72Tofu
Baked Tofu, 29–30
Black Pepper Tofu Bowl, 93–95blanched, 29Broiled Tofu, 30Grilled Tofu, 30Hippie Southerner, 70marinades for, 31No-Noodle Bowl, 70pressed, 29Spartan Japanese, 68
Tomatillos
Salsa Verde, 57–58Shatta, 58Tomatillo Chile Relish, 146–48
Tomatoes
Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Burst Tomatoes, 81–83Cucumber Tomato Salad, 78–80Ezme Salad, 110–11A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83Le Grand Aioli, 68The Minty Goddess, 78–80Mussels Matter, 99–100The Random Hippie, 70Romesco, 56Salsa Fresca, 89–90Summer in a Bowl, 110–11Taqueria-Style Rice, 89–90Tomato Confit, 99Tomato Paprika Sauce, 59Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast 
(Lunch or Dinner), 71
Zoodle Taco Salad, 117–18
Toppings, 12, 60
Baked Tortilla Strips, 62Buttered Bread Crumbs, 61Caramelized Nuts, 62Caramelized Onions, 62159
indexCumin Pita Crumbles, 61
Hand-Torn Croutons, 61Homemade Kimchi, 63Popped Wild Rice, 64Quick Pickled Red Onions, 63Roasted Garlic Cloves, 64Toasted Quinoa, 64vegetables as, 48
Tortillas
Baked Tortilla Strips, 62Old-School Taco Bowl, 72
Tuna
Le Grand Aioli, 68Oil-Poached Tuna, 33–34Seared Tuna, 33Tuna on Toasted Quinoa, 107–9
Turkey
Basic Ground Meat, 38Better-than-a-Kebab, 143–45Meatballs, 38Minted Meatballs, 143–45Spiced Ground Turkey, 117–18Thanksgiving in a Bowl, 72Zoodle Taco Salad, 117–18
Turmeric Vegetables, 84–85
Turnips
Moroccan-Spiced Root Vegetables, 
87–88
Pickled Turnips with Their Greens, 
127
Root Vegetable Hash, 45
Slurpy Soba Pork Bowl, 127–28
Twisted Lowcountry Breakfast (Lunch 
or Dinner), 71
Tzatziki, 110–11
V
Vegetables, 12, 42. See also  
individual vegetables
as bases, 48Charred Vegetables, 133–34chopping, 43Grilled Vegetables, 44Moroccan-Spiced Root Vegetables, 
87–88
Roasted Vegetables, 43Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Root Vegetable Hash, 45slicing, 43Steamed Vegetables, 44as toppings, 48Turmeric Vegetables, 84–85Veggie Burrito Bowl, 89–90
Vietnamese Nuoc Cham, 59
Vinaigrettes
Avocado Vinaigrette, 50
Basil Vinaigrette, 51Feta Vinaigrette, 52Ginger Vinaigrette, 52Lemon Garlic Vinaigrette, 54Mustard Vinaigrette, 107–9Serrano Chile Vinaigrette, 112
W
Walnuts
Caramelized Nuts, 62Ezme Salad, 110–11Falling Leaves Breakfast, 71Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30Parsley Walnut Pesto, 54Summer in a Bowl, 110–11Winter Warm-Up, 73
Watercress
Sizzling Beef Bowl, 133–34
White Rice, 20
Bibimbap Bowl, 68Taqueria-Style Rice, 89–90Veggie Burrito Bowl, 89–90
Wild Rice, 20Minnesota Hotdish Bowl, 129–30Northern Hunt, 71North Woods Breakfast, 71Popped Wild Rice, 64Wild Rice Black Lentil Pilaf, 129
Winter Warm-Up, 73
Y
Yogurt
Herbed Yogurt Sauce, 146–48Raita, 55Tzatziki, 110–11Yogurt-Marinated Chicken, 110–11
Yucatán Quinoa Taco Salad, 69
Z
Zoodle Taco Salad, 117–18
Zucchini
Charred Vegetables, 133–34
A Halloumi of a Time, 81–83Roasted Vegetables Deluxe, 70Shaved Zucchini Salad, 81–83Zoodle Taco Salad, 117–18Zucchini Noodles, 117–18160
bowls!The degree to which I’ve always 
preferred to eat out of bowls wouldn’t 
have struck me as a professional 
asset without Sarah Billingsley and the whole crew at Chronicle Books. I am tremendously grateful for what they’ve managed to make of my weird combinations and crack-pot ideas. A big thanks to Nicole Franzen and her team for making my food look as yummy as I think it tastes—I’m all apologies for making them work in such a restricted everything-chopped-up-in-a-bowl format. As always, Doe Coover provided invaluable guidance and support.
While Tara Duggan and I never got 
a completely different book off the ground, many of the flavors here were first explored with her, and I have great faith that our united vision of cooking for modern families will prevail. She and her family (I’m looking at you Eric, Dahlia, and Elsie Gustafson) provided much needed early tasting support that buoyed my spirits at a key juncture. A range of other friends, family, 
and colleagues have served as 
taste-testers and otherwise directly 
supported this book. The list includes Elissa Auther, Jordanna Bailkin, Bruce Cole, Marianne Condrup, Leah Donnelly, Julianne Gilland, Juliet Glass, Amy Machnak Hash, Amanda Hughen, Clare Leschin-Hoar, Adam O’Connor, Michelle Ohlmeyer, Marc Rasic, Jess Vacek, Kate Washington, and Watsons and Wolfs with all sorts of first names. Mary and Steve Watson, Mary Ann Wolf, and Nancy and Denny Watson, were, as always, extra enthusiastic.
My best tasters came in the form of 
Steven and Ernest Wolf. Two more honest yet loving critics are not to be found. Their humor and flexibility (and shopping and clean-up help) made it a pleasure to cook and serve everything found in these pages. Thanks to Ernest, we also know that all said food can be served on a plate to equally delicious effect.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSMOLLY WATSON  writes recipes for smart, accomplished, 
busy people who still want to make healthful, tasty foods  
for themselves, friends, and family. Her work has appeared in numerous publications, including Elle, the New York Times, and the San Francisco Chronicle. The author of 
Greens + Grains (also published by Chronicle Books), Molly lives in San Francisco.
NICOLE FRANZEN  is an interiors, travel, and food  
photographer based in New York City.Get 
freebies,  
discounts,  
and more!Want More  
Chronicle Ebooks?
CliCk Here!