Burnt Ends Chili  117
Vegetarian Muffuletta  120
BBQ Pulled-Pork Sandwich  123
Fried Oyster Po’Boy  125
Caribbean Lobster Roll  126
Pickled Shrimp Crudité  128
Pickled Vegetables  129
Chapter 5
LARGE PLATES  & BIG BOWLS  134
Buttermilk Fried Chicken  137
Jerk Baby Back Ribs with  
Pineapple Salsa  138
North African Spiced Beef  
Short Ribs  142
Blackened Steak au Poivre  144
Creole Meatloaf  145
Shrimp & Chicken Gumbo  147
Bayoubaisse  148
Blackened Catfish  151
Bourbon & Chili–Glazed Salmon  153
B-Side BBQ Braised Smoked Tofu  
with Roasted Eggplant  155
Chapter 6
SWEETS  162
Bourbon-Hazelnut Truffles  164
Caramelized Banana Pudding  165
Buttermilk Cornbread Pudding  168
Beignets with Chocolate-  
Chicory Sauce  169
Crunchy Peanut Butter Cookies  172Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan Bars  173
Peach & Nectarine Cobbler  175
Coconut Chess Tart  176
Down-Home Sweet Potato Pie  177
Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt Cake  181
Apple Bundt Cake with  
Brown Sugar Glaze  182
Pineapple Upside-Down Cake  184
Caramel Layer Cake with Brown  
Butter–Caramel Frosting  186
Red Velvet Layer Cake  190
Chapter 7
DRINKS  194
Perfectly Minted Iced Tea  196
Mango-Ginger Limeade  197
Strawberry Lemonade  199
Ginger Beer  200
Dark & Stormy  201
The B-Side  203
Brown Sugar Sangria  205
Cypress Sling  206
Westside Julep  208
Smoked Buttered Rum  212
Chai  214
Hot Chocolate  215
 
Acknowledgments  218
Index   220
About the Authors   22416  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENFOREWORD
BY MICHAEL CHABON
Oakland—like a swinging party, like an 
emergency—is happening. Oakland is always  
happening. From the moment of its founding, 
in the 1850s, by a nefarious confederation of 
squatters, opportunists, filibusterers, graft 
artists, boosters, visionary thieves and con -
fidence men, Bump City has been happening. 
And yet, in all that time, Oakland has never 
quite happened . Or rather, Oakland never has 
happened . Oakland has never had its day. It 
has never gone soft, grown fat, rested on its 
laurels. It has never entirely gotten its act 
together, remembered to set its alarm clock, 
made it through to payday, waited for its cake 
to cool completely. There is a there there  
(Oakland coolly says “Bite me” to Gertrude 
Stein); but Oakland’s not there yet. 
Getting  there, though. Oakland is—always, 
forever—getting there.
Oakland is like America, in that way. Oakland’s  
like America in a lot of ways—violent and 
peace-loving, burdened by a calamitous racial 
history, factious and muddled, friendly and 
casual, rich in local genius and in natural 
beauty, poorly governed, sweet-natured, cold-  
eyed, out to lunch, out for blood, out for a good 
time. And, above all, promising . Every day, 
Oakland makes and breaks the American 
promise, a promise so central to the idea of 
America that we carry it around everywhere 
we go, in our wallets, jingling in our pockets. 
I mean, of course, E pluribus unum : Out of all the scattered sparks, one shining light. It’s a 
utopian promise, and like all utopian promises,  
liable to breakage. But even if that promise can  
never truly be redeemed, it can be—it must be—  
endlessly renewed . And it’s the work that we 
put in, day after day, toward renewing the 
promise, not the promise’s fulfillment, that 
really matters. 
Tanya Holland knows that. Every day, starting 
at 5:30 a.m., she renews Oakland’s promise 
at Brown Sugar Kitchen, a little hip-pocket 
utopia in the city’s wild west end. Of all the 
many good restaurants, greasy-spoon to top-
drawer, that make up a substantial share of 
the cultural wealth of Oakland, Tanya’s Brown 
Sugar Kitchen most clearly, most faithfully, 
and most thrillingly embodies, one plate of 
chicken and waffles at a time, the ongoing, 
ever-renewed promise of the city she has come 
to love and, in a very real sense, to embody. 
Drop by Brown Sugar Kitchen any day, for 
breakfast or lunch, and you will find people of  
all ages and stations, professing various brands 
of faith or doubt, tracing their ancestries to 
Africa and Europe, Asia and South America, to  
the Cherokee, Shawnee or Creek. You might 
very well find all those inheritances gathered  
around a single table, perhaps even in the 
genetic code of a single member of the waitstaff. 
Diversity in the kitchen and dining room is 
hardly unusual in an Oakland restaurant, of FOREWORD  17
course—that’s one of the things to love about 
Oakland. Even in cities segregated far more 
determinedly than Oakland, I’ve noticed that a 
popular soul-food restaurant will often feature 
the most integrated tables in town—that’s one 
of the things to love about soul food. Beans, 
rice and collards are a powerful force for 
transformation. But the crowd’s different at 
Brown Sugar Kitchen. More jumbled, the lines 
of race and class drawn more faintly than 
in Oakland’s other restaurants, soul-food or 
otherwise. A more purposive clientele, I want 
to say, self- jumbled, everybody showing up 
with his or her own eraser to rub away at those 
lines a little more. One of the most beautiful 
things about human beings, in the midst of so 
much that is ugly, is the desire that takes hold 
of us, if only we can manage to leave our homes, 
our villages and our little worlds behind, for 
the companionship of people from Elsewhere. 
Make no mistake; people come to Brown Sugar 
Kitchen for the food. I believe that I could be 
hauled back from the gates of the Underworld 
by the prospect of a bowl of Tanya’s shrimp and 
grits. But it was Oakland and not some other 
town, remember, that cradled the visions of the 
most high prophet Sly Stone, and to a greater 
extent than I’ve found in other American 
cities, the Everyday People of Oakland are hip 
to the possibility that the point of the journey 
is neither the destination nor  the journey 
itself but rather the coming to a crossroads, to 
a watering hole, to what my character Archy Stallings, in Telegraph Avenue, likes to call a 
“caravansary .” The point of the journey, to the 
everyday wanderer, is the feeling one gets on 
crossing the threshold of one of those magical 
places along the way, built on the borderline 
between here and there, where the stories and  
the homelands and the crooked routes of history  
come together in a slice of sweet potato pie. 
Maybe the word I’m looking for to describe the 
spirit that imbues the patrons and the principals  
of Brown Sugar Kitchen is something more 
like “mindfulness.” (An East Bay word if there 
ever was one.) As lovers of Oakland, Tanya and 
her husband, Phil Surkis, are mindful  that the 
neighborhood where they chose to build their 
caravansary is the broken heart of Oakland, 
the place where all those industrious scoundrels  
who afterward lent their names to streets and 
civic buildings first conspired to defraud the 
Peralta family of their land. All the paths of 
ancestry and migration taken by Oakland’s 
founding peoples—Indian, Spanish, Mexican, 
Anglo-, Asian-, and African-American—are 
densely knotted in West Oakland, with its 
physical routes and roadways, its boulevards 
and streets. West Oakland is the great cross -
roads of the city’s history, the stage and the 
scene of its starkest crimes and dramas, its 
most tragic comedies, from the founding land-  
grab to the glory of the Pullman strikes, from 
the apocalyptic destruction rained down by 
federal urban policy in the ’60s to the collapse FOREWORD  19
of the Great Beast of Urban Renewal, the 
Cypress Freeway, during the Loma Prieta earth  - 
quake of 1989. The Black Panthers, the Oakland  
Oaks, shipbuilders and railway workers, 
immigrant Jews and Portuguese, Okies and 
followers of the Great Migration, all came and  
went along Market and Cypress and West 
Street, as neighborhoods rose and fell, and Huey  
P. Newton got murdered, and the industrial 
demands of two world wars brought a measure  
of security and comfort, often for the first time,  
to people whose status had been marginal and 
precarious.  Tanya and Phil were mindful, in 
choosing the site for their caravansary, that 
there could be no better place than along the 
Mandela Parkway, the enchanted road that 
grew up, gracious and wide and landscaped 
with greenery, in the gap that had once been 
the dark underbelly of the Cypress Freeway.
Tanya showed the same mindfulness in 
conceiving her Kitchen, in formulating her 
recipes, in committing herself to the cooking 
of soul food. This was, by her own admission, 
an unexpected choice. She had come west with 
plans to open a place that would showcase  
her La Varenne training; but then she dialed  
in to the local vibe, to the Sly Stone vision, to 
that Oakland state of mind. And one day she 
found herself standing on the 2500 block of 
the Mandela Parkway, feeling those paths of 
ancestry, those trails and roads and streets 
and railheads all coming together in the great soul terminus of West Oakland, and determined  
to set up shop, there, along the banks of the 
Mandela, and lay down her own artful and 
inspired version of the Oakland promise in  
the form of po’ boys, roux, and waffles. 
Consciously or intuitively—mindfully—Tanya 
made this culinary choice, I believe, because 
the cuisine we know as soul food—so styled  
sometime in the 1950s, around the time rhythm  
and blues was becoming soul music —comes 
closer than any other product of American  
art and ingenuity to redeeming the promise  
of E pluribus unum . Peanuts, rice, okra and 
yams from Africa; Central American beans 
and cassava; European pork, cabbage, molas -
ses and turnips; Indian corn and hominy, ber -
ries and greens: soul food is the caravansary 
along the road from the African past to the 
American present, from freedom to slavery 
to freedom again. Soul food is the little joint 
at the broken heart of America where all the 
kitchen inheritances ingather, and get tangled 
like travelers’ yarns, like the paths of exile and 
homecoming, like strands of DNA. From the  
day she opened her little utopia on the Mandela  
Parkway, Tanya has been making and keeping 
and redeeming her promise: Come on in, all of 
you everyday wanderers, and take a seat, and  
I will feed your soul. Oh—and come hungry. 20  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENWELCOME  TO 
BROWN SUGAR 
KITCHEN
I am not a morning person, and yet I’ve seen 
sunrise almost every day for the past six years.  
I’m thankful I live only four blocks from Brown  
Sugar Kitchen because I can be in the kitchen 
before I realize how tired I am.
I’m the first to arrive, circling the pie-shaped 
building at 5:30 a.m., removing the heavy-duty 
locks from the window grates and doors. As 
soon as I walk in, I turn on the ovens and fire 
up the burners. I’m awake now—sleepiness and  
fire don’t mix. Pulling out a rondeau pot, I fill it 
with oil for frying chicken. Then I fill another 
shallow pot with water and a big splash of dis -
tilled white vinegar—ground zero for poaching 
eggs. Assembling the pots and pans is one of 
the rituals that help me set the tone for the day.
I throw a few oversize tea bags into a pot of hot  
water to steep for chai, and get another pot of  
water boiling so I can cook the grits (with great  
care and love, of course, the two most import -
ant ingredients). Into the ovens go the sticky 
buns that were prepared the day before, and 
left to come to room temperature on a shelf 
above the stove. This opening routine takes 
ninety minutes. It’s like yoga or meditation, but  
with coffee and sticky buns. No, I’m not a morn -
ing person, but I’ve come to love the early shift. 
I call it, “Getting the party started right.”
Just before six, the building shakes as the first 
deliveries arrive. We know when the trucks 
pull up because our single-story wood-framed building starts to vibrate. A driver wheels in 
a hand truck stacked with boxes of produce. 
I know all the delivery drivers, because I see 
each of them several times a week. We have 
no walk-in, just a couple of stand-alone refrig -
erators. With so little storage space, we cycle 
through our entire stock of ingredients every 
few days. This constant receiving of goods 
makes me feel like an annex of the Port of 
Oakland, our neighbor at the other end of the 
street. Most restaurants can stock their pan -
tries and coolers with enough ingredients to 
get them through the week, but Brown Sugar 
Kitchen is not like most restaurants.
Our first server enters the scene right at six, 
unstacking the chairs from the tabletops, lin -
ing up the napkins and silverware with great 
precision, setting out the Tabasco and Crystal 
hot sauces, and pulling the jars of our house-
made jam from the fridge. As much as I’d love 
a cup of coffee by now, we don’t start brewing 
until just before we open, grinding the beans 
to order for each pot.
I keep an eye on the clock as it inches toward 
seven, making sure I stay on track. I’m a stick -
ler for consistency, and it’s important that the 
restaurant is ready to go when the doors open. 
I may be stirring the last of the Cheddar into 
the pot of grits, but if an order is placed at 7:01, 
it will be on the table by 7:06.22  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Around 6:30, I fire up one of the playlists that 
my husband, Phil, has made. Nina Simone 
starts to sing and my movements become more 
fluid. I love to dance. Guests might see me on 
the line and think I’m cooking, but I’m really 
feeling the music, feeling the timing—dancing 
and cooking at the same time.
Now it’s time to turn on the waffle irons. They 
need a good thirty minutes to heat up; they’ll 
be running nonstop for the next eight hours. I 
pull a tub of waffle batter out of the refrigera -
tor, where it’s been rising overnight. One tub 
holds enough batter for about fifteen waffles 
and we sometimes have up to twenty tubs 
ready to go because I simply cannot stand to 
run out of anything.
Next I turn my attention to the fried chicken. 
It’s been soaking in a buttermilk-herb bath 
since yesterday afternoon. I take the chicken 
pieces out of the buttermilk, toss them in a 
bin of seasoned flour, and carefully  transfer 
them to the pot of bubbling oil. (It looks scary, 
but I’m used to it.) If the oil splashes up and 
burns my thumb, I’m reminded of what I tell 
my cooks: “There comes a point when you stop 
cutting yourself, but you never stop getting 
burned.”
While the chicken fries, my multitasking 
frenzy reaches a crescendo: I fill a pie shell 
with sweet-potato filling; add grits to the 
boiling water; dump a bin of potatoes on the flat-top grill. I grab a pastry brush and paint 
the tops of the biscuits with cream before 
putting them in the oven. There’s a rhythm to 
the work, and I rely on my internal clock more 
than timers. I know exactly when the sticky 
buns are done, when the chicken needs to be 
pulled, and when the biscuits are tender but 
not yet browned.
At ten minutes to seven a few cars are already 
lined up at the curb. Then customers’ faces 
start to populate the windows, with their noses  
pressed to the glass. It’s time. Right at seven, 
I slip on my chef’s coat, just as our server car -
ries the bulky “Open” sandwich board to the 
curb. As customers stream in, I transfer a tray 
of fried chicken to the oven to keep it warm 
and ready for that first chicken and waffles 
order, which I know will be coming at 7:03.
Brown Sugar Kitchen isn’t the restaurant I 
intended to open. I had plans for a bistro where 
I would serve steak frites, bouillabaisse, 
braised short ribs—the food I fell in love with 
when I studied cooking in France. I imagined 
that restaurant on a busy corner in downtown 
Oakland, Boston, Manhattan, Brooklyn—one 
of the many cities where I’ve lived—with 
high ceilings and big windows that would 
flood the dining room with natural light. 
The tables would be set with nice glassware, 
heavy flatware, and big bistro plates. The WELCOME TO BROWN SUGAR KITCHEN  23wine list would be thick and bound in leather. 
Somewhere in one of the corners there would 
be a booth for VIPs or a line of banquettes for 
comfortable and sometimes private seating. 
Diners would eat in courses: an appetizer and 
main course followed by dessert. Perhaps 
there would even be an amuse-bouche sent 
from the kitchen.
A soul-food restaurant on an isolated corner 
in West Oakland was not part of the plan. But 
then Phil and I moved to the neighborhood. 
Phil insists that he bought our home based 
on the “vibe.” (Acting on gut is a quality we 
share.) It wasn’t until after we had moved in 
that we discovered there wasn’t even a place 
to get a cup of coffee within walking distance. 
The one restaurant in the neighborhood was a 
Jamaican diner called the Island Café. People 
here still talk about the jerk chicken, but it 
was clear to us that the owner was struggling. 
Though an “Open” sign was permanently 
bolted to the side of the building, the café was 
almost always closed. We had a sense that the 
owner might want out, so we approached him 
about taking over the lease, and were able to 
make a deal.
The lot that the restaurant sits on is exposed 
on all sides—it’s literally an island. Mandela 
Parkway had just been landscaped with trees, 
and this newly lush parkway was the only 
green in what was otherwise a barren land -
scape. Our neighbors are a storage facility, a forklift company, and an auto repair shop. 
There were no other retail businesses for a 
couple of miles. On paper, opening a restau -
rant in West Oakland did not look like a good 
idea. But I knew our restaurant had potential. 
I lived in New York City in the 1980s, where 
I witnessed the possibilities of change first -
hand. I felt the possibilities of West Oakland.
As an executive chef, I’ve inherited a lot of 
kitchens, and most of them were in need of 
a very thorough cleaning. But this was the 
cleanest restaurant kitchen I’d ever seen. I was 
beside myself with joy. Instead of scrubbing 
grease off the walls, I focused on the fun things, 
like paint colors. I picked my favorites—split-
pea green and chocolate brown, to play off the 
orange linoleum floor and the black countertop. 
Then we installed a dozen gooseneck light 
fixtures on the sides of the building. Our neigh -
bors were thrilled, as the additional lighting 
made the area safer.
I figured we’d start slow, with a short menu of 
coffee and baked goods and hours limited to just  
breakfast and lunch. With just fifty seats, I 
would’ve been pleased to serve 500 people a week.
As Phil likes to tell the story, I had the entire 
menu in my head and put it on paper just days 
before we opened. The equipment and the lim -
ited amount of space dictated what we could 
serve. But there was a wood-fired rotisserie 
smoker in the back, plus room for at least one  24  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
waffle iron, a small fryer, a commercial griddle,  
and a six-burner cooktop on top of two con -
ventional ovens. We had four refrigerators 
of varying sizes and a small freezer. I never 
planned on having frozen ingredients anyway, 
so I don’t miss having a freezer. Back then, 
it seemed like we had so much room in those 
refrigerators—more than we would ever be 
able to fill. I hired one dishwasher, two cooks, 
and three servers.
We opened our doors on January 15, 2008, 
Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday—an auspi -
cious day for a start, I thought. Phil was still 
working as a claims adjuster then and took the 
day off to be with us. He joined in as I gathered 
the staff in a circle, said a prayer, and opened 
the door. Our first customer, Dave Worden, 
walked through the door and asked for a cup of  
coffee. The entire staff descended in an attempt  
to impress him with our fabulous service. I 
guess we did all right because he’s become a 
regular customer. We did thirty-seven covers 
on that Tuesday. By Saturday, we had a waiting 
list for brunch and served 100 people. These 
days, we sometimes serve more than 400 cus -
tomers on a Saturday.
On that bright January morning, it never 
occurred to me that I would be cooking lunch 
for the mayor and serving gumbo to Stewart  
Copeland of the Police. I wouldn’t have believed  
it if you had told me that Taj Mahal and Ledisi 
would be regulars at my restaurant.Brown Sugar Kitchen has become more than 
just a restaurant, it’s a community. We’re an 
anchor for the neighborhood, a canteen for the 
artists, truckers, and tradesmen who work 
here. We’re a business that hires locally, a 
place where a young cook can learn and go on 
to become a chef. We buy our coffee, produce, 
and even our wine from Oakland producers, 
and we’re a fund-raising venue that supports 
neighborhood organizations.
We’ve become a destination, too, drawing 
customers from far beyond the Oakland bor -
der. I like to think that when people come to 
Brown Sugar Kitchen for the first time they 
see beyond the stereotype of West Oakland as 
a dangerous, dirty place. That they see what I 
see when I come to work—a dynamic, diverse 
community brought together by a shared 
appetite for fried chicken and for the kind of 
connections that food can forge.
But of all the things about Brown Sugar 
Kitchen that I take pride in—the lightness 
of our waffles, the skill of my cooks, and the 
hospitality of our servers—the part of my job 
that brings me the most satisfaction is the 
people who eat here. Look around our dining 
room and you’ll see African Americans, Asian 
Americans, and Latino Americans. Infants 
and the elderly, gay people and straight, celeb -
rities and day laborers, bankers and emerging 
artists and musicians all sit at our tables—
sometimes they share the same table. I have no WELCOME TO BROWN SUGAR KITCHEN  25idea what it is, but something happens when 
people come to Brown Sugar Kitchen, and the 
differences that divide suddenly become the 
things that draw them together. Defenses drop 
and curiosity takes over. Judgments fade and 
alliances are born. I feel lucky to be a part of it.
West Oakland is more than just a place where 
we live. It’s our home now, and we can’t imag -
ine living anywhere else. People say that I’ve 
changed West Oakland, but the truth is, West 
Oakland has changed me.
TANYA HOLLANDCHAPTER 1
BREAKFAST   
& BRUNCH I love that moment in the early morning when the ﬁrst customers stumble through the 
door. People are a little more raw at that hour, slightly less polished than they’ll be after they’ve had their coffee and a bite to eat. From my spot cooking behind the line, I can watch the steady trickle of guests ﬁlling the tables; there are always some new faces as well as old ones. People from the neighborhood stop in for a sticky bun or a scone on their way to work; others take a table for an early morning meeting or maybe just some time alone with the newspaper. Working the line in an open kitchen allows me to keep an eye on who’s coming in, and if it’s one of our regulars, a chance to catch up. Quite a few of our customers have standard orders that never vary. I can often get their breakfast started before the menus even hit the table.
Our morning menu is short, a tight list of favorites we know our customers crave. And 
I love how so many of our regulars always order the same thing. Mildred must have her granola, and Jeff will be upset if we don’t have smoked pork hash (we’ve run out two or three times in the past few years). Before I opened the restaurant I imagined that I would change the menu more often, but I know better now. If I don’t keep it exactly as it is, my customers wouldn’t be able to start their days right.
Many of the recipes here are—in true Southern style—on the hearty side, such as our 
legendary waffles, a big bowl of shrimp and grits, or hash and eggs. All will easily ﬁll you up until lunch and beyond. But there are lighter options, too, like our nutty granola and a vegetable tart with a side salad.30  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
To make the syrup:  In a large pot, combine the brown sugar, 
vinegar, cider, cinnamon, and butter. Bring to a boil, reduce to 
a simmer, and let cook until reduced to 1 1/2 cups/360 ml, about 
45 minutes. Discard the cinnamon and keep warm over very 
low heat. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container 
for up to 1 month.)
To make the waffles:  In a small bowl, combine the yeast 
and warm water. Let stand until foamy, about 10 minutes. In a 
large bowl, whisk together the eggs and milk. In another large 
bowl, sift together the cornmeal, flour, salt, and granulated 
sugar. Add the yeast mixture to the eggs and milk, then whisk 
in the flour mixture until thoroughly combined. Whisk in the 
melted butter until just combined. Cover the bowl with plastic 
wrap, and refrigerate for at least 4 hours or up to overnight.
Preheat the oven to 250°F/120°C. Preheat the waffle iron and 
brush lightly with oil. Set a wire rack over a baking sheet.
CONTINUEDAPPLE CIDER SYRUP
1½ CUPS/300 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
1½ TSP  apple cider vinegar
4 CUPS/960 ML apple cider
2 cinnamon sticks
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter
WAFFLES
2 TSP  active dry yeast
¾ CUP/180 ML warm water
3 eggs
3 CUPS/720 ML whole milk
1 CUP/140 G cornmeal
2 CUPS/255 G all-purpose flour
1½ TSP  kosher salt
1½ TSP  granulated sugar
¾ CUP/170 G unsalted butter, 
melted
Vegetable oil for the waffle iron
½ TSP  baking sodaThese waffles are based on the rise-overnight, yeasted version made famous by the late 
cooking teacher and cookbook author Marion Cunningham. I added cornmeal to the batter 
to give them a distinctive Southern flavor and make them my own. Now they’re one of Brown 
Sugar Kitchen’s signature dishes and it’s impossible to imagine the restaurant without them. 
The apple cider syrup is an homage to my grandmother, who always fried apples for break -
fast; it’s a nice change from the ubiquitous maple syrup. These waffles have received a lot of 
press, with perhaps my favorite review coming from the Pulitzer Prize–winning food writer 
Jonathan Gold, who says they are worth the  five-and-a-half-hour drive from Los Angeles. 
I’ll let the recipe do the talking.MAKES 8 TO 10 WAFFLES AND 11/2 CUPS/360 ML SYRUP
CORNMEAL  WAFFLES  
WITH  APPLE CIDER  
SYRUP
32  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Remove the waffle batter from the refrigerator and stir in the 
baking soda. Ladle some of the batter into the waffle iron, close 
the lid, and cook the waffles until golden and cooked through, 
about 3 minutes or according to the manufacturer's instruc -
tions. Transfer the waffle to the rack to keep warm in the oven. 
Repeat with the remaining batter, placing the waffles in a sin -
gle layer on the rack.
Serve the waffles warm with warm apple cider syrup.BREAKFAST & BRUNCH   33Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line two baking sheets with 
parchment paper.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine 
the flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda and mix briefly 
on low speed just to combine. Add the chilled butter and con -
tinue mixing on low speed until the butter is cut into pea-size 
pieces. Drizzle in the buttermilk and mix just until the dough 
forms a ball. Divide the dough into thirds.
In a small bowl, combine the Cheddar, bacon, and green onions. 
On a lightly floured surface and with a lightly floured rolling pin, 
roll out one piece of dough to an 11-by-8 1/2-in/28-by-21.5-cm 
rectangle and sprinkle with half of the Cheddar mixture. Roll 
out another piece of dough to an 11-by-8 1/2-in/28-by-21.5-cm 
rectangle and layer on top of the dough with the Cheddar mix -
ture. Sprinkle the second layer of dough with the remaining half 
of the Cheddar mixture. Roll out the remaining piece of dough 
and layer it on top. Gently roll out the dough layers to make a 
12-by-10-in/30.5-by-25-cm rectangle.
Using a 2-in/5-cm biscuit cutter, stamp out 18 biscuits and 
set them on the prepared baking sheets. Brush the tops with 
cream. Bake until just starting to turn golden but before the 
bottoms begin to brown, about 15 minutes. Let cool slightly and 
serve warm. 
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container at room tem -
perature for up to 1 day. Reheat in a toaster oven.)Buttermilk biscuits should be buttery and flaky. It’s the way the dough is handled that con -
tributes to these qualities more than anything else. The butter should be cold and the dough 
shouldn’t be overworked. I realize that adding bacon, cheese, and green onions pushes these 
savory biscuits right over the top, but in this case that turns out to be a very good thing. We 
bake hundreds of these a week. Our regulars who rush in for a cup of coffee know they can 
also grab one of these biscuits if they need a small bite but can’t wait for anything else.MAKES 18 BISCUITS
BACON- CHEDDAR–  
GREEN ONION  
BISCUITS
3½ CUPS/440 G all-purpose flour
1 TBSP  baking powder
2 TSP  kosher salt
1 TSP  baking soda
1¼ CUPS/280 G unsalted butter, 
cut into cubes and chilled
1½ CUPS/360 ML buttermilk
2 OZ/55 G sharp Cheddar 
cheese, grated
2 slices cooked bacon, chopped
2 green onions, white parts 
only, chopped
Heavy cream for brushing34  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENIn a medium bowl, whisk together the buckwheat flour, flaxseed 
meal, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. 
In another medium bowl, mash the bananas with a wooden spoon 
until almost smooth. You should have about 1 1/2 cups/340 g.
In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, yogurt, and milk. Add 
the mashed bananas and vanilla and stir until thoroughly 
combined. Stir in the flour mixture and the melted butter until 
combined.
Preheat the oven to 250°F/120°C. Set a wire rack over a baking 
sheet. Heat a griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat and 
coat the surface with melted butter.
For each griddle cake, pour 1/4 cup/60 ml batter onto the grid -
dle, spacing them about 3 in/7.5 cm apart. Cook until bubbles 
form on top and the bottoms are golden brown, about 2 minutes. 
With a spatula, flip the griddle cakes and cook until the bot -
toms are golden brown, about 2 minutes. Transfer the griddle 
cakes to the rack to keep warm in the oven. Repeat with the 
remaining batter, placing the griddle cakes in a single layer on 
the rack. Serve immediately with maple syrup.1½ CUPS /185 G buckwheat flour
¼ CUP/35 G flaxseed meal
2 TBSP  raw or turbinado sugar
2¼ TSP  baking powder
½ TSP  baking soda
¼ TSP  kosher salt
2 OR 3  ripe bananas
2 eggs
1 CUP/240 ML plain whole-milk 
yogurt
1 CUP/240 ML whole milk
1 TBSP  vanilla extract
3 TBSP  unsalted butter, melted 
and cooled slightly, plus more 
for the griddle
Pure maple syrup for servingThere’s a limited amount of space on the griddle at Brown Sugar Kitchen, so we don’t offer 
pancakes, but I often think about how I would make them if we did. Here, I turn to buck -
wheat flour and flaxseed meal to give these a bit more character than pancakes made with 
only all-purpose flour. It also means they’re gluten-free. I always have bananas around at 
different stages of ripeness. If you have some that are overripe, mash them before the flesh 
darkens and then freeze them. Thaw when ready to make this recipe.SERVES 6
BANANA-BUCKWHEAT  
GRIDDLE  
CAKESBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   35Heat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Set the prebaked pie shell on a 
rimmed baking sheet next to the stove.
In a large frying pan, heat 1 tbsp oil over medium heat until 
shimmering. Add the mushrooms and cook until tender, about 
10 minutes. Layer the cooked mushrooms in the prebaked pie 
shell. Heat another 1 tbsp oil in the pan, add the spinach, and 
cook until wilted and tender, about 5 minutes. Layer the cooked 
spinach on top of the mushrooms in the pie shell. Heat the 
remaining 1 tbsp oil in the pan, add the leeks, and cook until 
very tender, about 15 minutes. Layer the cooked leeks on top 
of the mushrooms and spinach in the pie shell. Sprinkle the 
Gruyère and fines herbes evenly over the top.
In a large bowl, whisk together the half-and-half, eggs, and 
yolks. Stir in the salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Pour the custard into 
the pie shell.1 PREBAKED 9-IN/23-CM  pie 
shell
3 TBSP  olive oil
8 OZ/225 G button mushrooms, 
sliced
8 OZ/225 G spinach, stemmed 
and washed
4 leeks, white parts only, 
washed
2 OZ/55 G Gruyère cheese, 
shredded
1 TBSP  fresh chopped fines 
herbes (equal parts parsley, 
tarragon, chervil, chives)
3 CUPS/720 ML half-and-half
6 eggs plus 3 egg yolks
½ TSP  salt
1/8 TSP  freshly ground 
pepper
PINCH  of grated nutmegWhen I was growing up in the ’70s, quiche was a symbol of gourmet tastes and something 
served at fancy brunches. Today I think of it as way to combine some of the best breakfast 
ingredients and to highlight what’s in season. In the spring you’re sure to see asparagus; in 
the summer, tomatoes; in the fall, dark hearty greens. This version with mushrooms, spinach, 
and leeks is good to make all year round.
If you have a go-to pie dough recipe, definitely use it here. But if you’re not inclined to make 
a crust from scratch, there’s no shame in using a store-bought one. Puff pastry works just 
as well—either homemade, if you’re up for it, or the frozen kind. The crust makes a light and 
delicate contrast to the rich custard filling.SERVES 4 TO 6
THE BSK 
BREAKFAST  
TART
CONTINUEDBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   37Bake until the top is golden and the custard is just set, 
about 1 hour. Let cool for 10 minutes. Serve warm or at room 
temperature.
(To make ahead, cover tightly in plastic wrap and refrig -
erate for up to 2 days or freeze for up to 2 weeks. Reheat in a 
350°F/180°C oven until warmed through, about 10 minutes.)
BREAKFAST & BRUNCH   39A scone has a sweeter profile and a slightly cakier texture than a biscuit. I had an idea to 
infuse my sweet potato obsession into a breakfast treat, so I asked our baker to come up 
with a recipe for sweet potato scones and she nailed it. And who wouldn't love anything 
topped with brown sugar icing?
To make the scones:  In a wide sauté pan, melt the 1 tbsp but -
ter over medium heat. Add the sweet potato and cook, stirring 
often, until it begins to soften, about 10 minutes. Add 1 tbsp of 
the brown sugar and cook, stirring often, until the sweet potato 
caramelizes, 12 to 15 minutes. Just before the sweet potato 
is done, stir in a pinch of salt. Refrigerate to cool completely, 
about 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line a baking sheet with 
parchment paper.
In a food processor, pulse together the flour, baking powder, the 
remaining 2 tbsp brown sugar, 1/2 tsp salt, cinnamon, allspice, 
and nutmeg. Scatter the chilled butter cubes over the flour mix -
ture and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Do 
not overprocess.
Transfer the flour-butter mixture to a large mixing bowl, add 
the currants and the chilled sweet potato, and toss to coat 
with the flour-butter mixture. Add the cream, gently stirring 
with a fork to incorporate. The dough should just barely come 
together. Do not overmix.
Dump the dough onto a lightly floured surface, and gently knead 
into a ball, taking care not to mash the sweet potato cubes. The 
dough will feel slightly dry. Form into an 8-in/20-cm disk and 
cut into eight triangles. Transfer the scones to the prepared 
baking sheet.
CONTINUEDSWEET POTATO SCONES
¾ CUP/170 G unsalted butter, 
cut into cubes and chilled, plus 
1 TBSP
1 sweet potato, peeled and diced
3 TBSP  firmly packed brown 
sugar
Kosher salt
2 CUPS/255 G all-purpose flour
1 TBSP  baking powder
¼ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  ground allspice
PINCH  of grated nutmeg
½ CUP/70 G dried currants
¾ CUP/180 ML heavy cream, 
chilled
BROWN SUGAR ICING
¼ CUP/20 G powdered sugar
1 TBSP  unsalted butter
¼ CUP/50 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
3 TBSP  heavy creamMAKES 8 SCONES
SWEET POTATO  
SCONES WITH  
BROWN SUGAR ICING40  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENBake until the scones are barely golden brown, 18 to 22 min -
utes. Let cool on the baking sheet for about 10 minutes, then 
transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
To make the icing:  Sift the powdered sugar into a medium 
bowl. In a small saucepan, combine the butter, brown sugar, 
and cream over medium-low heat, stirring often, until the but -
ter is melted and the mixture is well combined. Pour the butter 
mixture over the powdered sugar, and whisk until smooth. Let 
cool completely.
When the scones are cool, set the wire rack with the scones 
over the baking sheet. With a small offset spatula or a table 
knife, spread about 1 tbsp icing on each scone. Let set for at 
least 15 minutes before serving. 
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.)BREAKFAST & BRUNCH   41To make the dough:  In a medium saucepan, heat 3/4 cup/  
180 ml milk and the butter over medium heat until the butter is 
melted. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly.
Pour the melted butter and milk into the bowl of a standing 
mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Add the granulated 
sugar and yeast and mix on medium speed until combined. Let 
stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. Add the remaining 3/4 cup/  
180 ml milk, beaten eggs, and salt and mix on low speed until 
combined. Fit the mixer with the dough hook, and gradually 
add the flour, beating until dough is smooth and elastic, about 
5 minutes.
Scrape the dough into a large oiled bowl, cover with plastic 
wrap, and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 
1 hour.
To make the sticky-bun goo:  Using a clean mixer bowl 
and whisk attachment, cream the brown sugar and butter 
together on medium speed until mixture is light and fluffy, 3 to 
5 minutes, scraping down the bowl at least twice. Add salt, corn 
syrup, honey, and water and beat until combined. Spread the 
goo over the bottom of a 13-by-9-in/33-by-23-cm baking pan 
and sprinkle evenly with pecans, if using.
CONTINUEDDOUGH
1½ CUPS/360 ML whole milk
¾ CUP/170 G unsalted butter
¼ CUP/50 G granulated sugar
1 TBSP  active dry yeast
2 eggs, beaten
1 TBSP  kosher salt
5¼ CUPS/650 G all-purpose 
flour
STICKY-BUN GOO
¾ CUP/150 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted 
butter, at room temperature
½ TSP  kosher salt
3 TBSP  corn syrup
3 TBSP  honey
1 TBSP  water
1½ CUPS/170 G whole pecans 
(optional)Our selection of baked goods has changed over the years, depending on who’s in the kitchen. 
But regardless of who’s baking, these sticky buns have remained a constant. Because, let’s be 
honest, you can’t improve on a great sticky bun. We serve these only on Fridays, Saturdays, 
and Sundays, and many of our regulars show up just for these. This may be one of the more 
complicated baking recipes we make, but it’s worth the time and effort if you’re feeling ambi -
tious. Make sure you take a picture of your finished product, as the golden brown color of 
these buns makes them quite photogenic! And any leftovers make an out-of-this-world bread 
pudding.MAKES 12 BUNS
STICKY  
BUNSBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   43To make the cinnamon sugar:  In a small bowl, combine 
the granulated sugar and cinnamon.
Punch down the dough. On a lightly floured surface, pat into a 
rough rectangle. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll into a 
large rectangle about 1/4 in/6 mm thick. Brush dough with the 
melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar. With the long 
side facing you, roll the dough into a log and pinch the seam to 
seal. Cut the log into 12 pieces, yielding 12 buns. Arrange the 
buns cut-side up in the prepared pan. Cover the buns with plas -
tic wrap and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 
30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
Bake the buns until golden brown, 40 to 45 minutes. Let cool in 
the pan on a wire rack for 15 minutes, then invert onto a large 
platter. Spoon any extra goo over the buns. Serve warm.
(To make ahead, cover tightly in plastic wrap and refriger -
ate for up to 1 day. Unwrap and reheat on a baking sheet in a 
350°F/180°C oven for about 15 minutes.)CINNAMON SUGAR
1 CUP/200 G granulated 
sugar
2 TBSP  ground cinnamon
6 TBSP/85 G unsalted 
butter, melted
44  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENTo make the caramelized apples:  In a large sauté pan, 
melt the butter over medium heat. Add the apple slices and cook 
just until tender, about 5 minutes. Sprinkle with the sugar and 
continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until the apples are 
glazed and caramelized, 3 to 5 minutes.
To make the béchamel sauce:  In a saucepan, melt the but -
ter over medium-low heat. Sprinkle the flour over the butter, 
whisking constantly, until combined. Let the mixture bubble 
gently for about 2 minutes, whisking all the while. Slowly pour 
the warmed milk into the saucepan, whisking constantly, and 
cook until the sauce thickens, about 3 minutes. Turn off the 
heat and stir in the Gruyère until melted and smooth. Season 
with salt.
To make the croque-monsieur:  Preheat the broiler and 
position an oven rack at least 6 in/15 cm below the broiler ele -
ment. Put the bread slices on a baking sheet and toast under the 
broiler, turning once, until golden brown on both sides, about  
6 minutes.CARAMELIZED APPLES
1 TBSP  unsalted butter
2 firm, tart apples, such as Fuji 
or Granny Smith, cored, peeled, 
and thinly sliced
1 TBSP  sugar
BÉCHAMEL SAUCE
1½ TBSP  unsalted butter
1½ TBSP  all-purpose flour
1 CUP/240 ML whole milk, 
warmed
2 OZ/55 G Gruyère cheese, 
grated
Kosher salt
CROQUE-MONSIEUR
8 thick slices good-quality 
white bread such as pain  
de mie
4 TSP  Dijon mustard
8 OZ/220 G thinly sliced ham, 
preferably Virginia or country 
ham
2 OZ/55 G Gruyère cheese, 
gratedI had a student’s budget and a student’s diet when I went to cooking school in France. When 
I wasn’t at school I ate a lot of baguettes, crepes, and croque-monsieurs—essentially, any 
combination of cheese and bread that I could think of. In this version, I’ve added caramel -
ized apples to balance the salty ham and cheese and bring a little sweetness to the mix.SERVES 4
VIRGINIA HAM  & FRIED APPLE 
CROQUE-MONSIEURBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   45Spread 4 toasted bread slices with the Dijon mustard, then 
layer with ham, the caramelized apples, and the Gruyère, divid -
ing them evenly among the bread slices. Put the open-faced 
sandwiches on the baking sheet and broil until the cheese 
melts, about 3 minutes.
Top each sandwich with a slice of toasted bread, and gently 
press down. Slather the tops with béchamel, dividing it evenly 
among the sandwiches. Return the sandwiches to the broiler 
and cook until the béchamel is bubbly and browned, about  
1 minute. Serve immediately.46  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Cut the croissant in half and toast until browned. Spread cut 
sides with 1 tbsp butter.
In a small sauté pan, melt the remaining 1 tbsp butter over 
medium heat. Pour the eggs into the pan and cook, stirring 
constantly with a heatproof spatula or wooden spoon, until the 
eggs are thick and creamy and soft curds begin to form, about 
1 minute. Stir in the cream and season with salt and pepper. 
Remove from the heat.
Set the bottom half of the croissant on a plate and top with the 
Monterey Jack. Spoon on the scrambled eggs, top with the ham, 
and cover with the top half of the roll. Serve immediately.1 croissant or soft whole-  
wheat roll
2 TBSP  unsalted butter, at room 
temperature
2 eggs, beaten
1 TBSP  heavy cream
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
2 thin slices Monterey Jack or 
sharp Cheddar cheese
2 slices dry-cured ham, cooked 
bacon, or cooked chicken or   
2 links turkey breakfast 
sausageA good egg sandwich includes four essential elements—the right bread, soft scrambled eggs, 
juicy breakfast meat, and gooey melted cheese. At Brown Sugar Kitchen, we offer the choice 
of a wheat roll or a fresh croissant. I favor the latter for its over-the-top decadence, but you 
should choose your own favorite bread.SERVES 1
THE BSK EGG 
SANDWICHBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   47To make the grits cakes:  In a large, heavy-bottomed 
saucepan, bring the water and 1/2 tsp salt to a boil. Whisk in the 
grits, reduce to a simmer, and cook, stirring constantly, until 
the grits are fully cooked and thick like mush, 15 to 20 minutes.
Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Pour the 
hot grits onto the prepared baking sheet; it should form a layer 
about 3/4 in/2 cm deep. Cover with plastic wrap and let cool, 
then refrigerate until thoroughly chilled, at least 2 hours or up 
to overnight.
To make the hollandaise:  In a small saucepan, combine 
the vinegar, bay leaf, and peppercorns and bring to a boil. 
Remove from heat. Let cool, then strain the vinegar, discarding 
the bay leaf and peppercorns.
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. In a 
blender, combine the egg yolks, vinegar, and a pinch of salt and 
pulse to combine. With the blender running, slowly drizzle 
in the melted butter until the sauce has thickened. It should 
still be thin enough to form a pool (not a mound) when a small 
amount is spooned onto a cool plate. To keep warm, spoon the GRITS CAKES
5 CUPS/1.2 L water
Kosher salt
1 CUP/140 G stone-ground grits
CREOLE HOLLANDAISE
2 TBSP  apple cider vinegar
1 bay leaf
3 white peppercorns
1 CUP/225 G unsalted butter
2 egg yolks
Kosher salt
8 slices deli ham or 
Canadian bacon (optional)
Vegetable oil for frying
½ CUP/60 G all-purpose flour
2 TSP  Creole Spice Mix 
(page 51)
9 eggs
½ CUP/55 G plain dried 
bread crumbsI try to use the absolute best ingredients I can find, and that includes grits. But after trying 
many different kinds of fancy organic grits, I settled on using a common grocery-store brand. 
The consistency it yields is exactly what I’m after. Holding hollandaise sauce in a small restau -
rant kitchen can be a challenge—it can separate and become oily in the heat. But we still bring 
out this dish every now and then as a special just because it’s so good. Like our breakfast pota -
toes in the Smoked Pork Hash (page 57), these started as a way to avoid food waste, and they 
ended up being a star on their own. We toast the cakes on the griddle to give them a nice crisp 
crust that protects the creamy centers.SERVES 4
GRITS CAKES  
BENEDICT
CONTINUEDBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   49hollandaise into a heatproof bowl and set over a saucepan of 
barely simmering water, making sure the bottom of the bowl 
doesn't touch the water. If the sauce is too thick, add hot water, 
1 tbsp at a time, to reach your desired consistency.
When the grits are cold and firm, use a 3-in/7.5-cm round 
cookie cutter to cut them into circles.  You should have 8 grits 
cakes. (To make ahead, refrigerate unfried grits cakes in an 
airtight container for up to 3 days.)
Preheat the oven to 250°F/120°C. Place the ham, if using, in a 
single layer on a baking sheet to warm in the oven while frying 
the grits cakes.
In a large cast-iron pan, add oil to a depth of 1/2 in/12 mm. Heat 
the oil over medium heat until it reaches 350°F/180°C on an 
instant-read thermometer. The oil should be hot but not smok -
ing. Line a rimmed baking sheet with paper towels and set a 
wire rack on top.
In a shallow dish, combine the flour and the Creole Spice Mix. 
In another shallow dish, lightly beat 1 egg. In a third shallow 
dish, pour in the bread crumbs. Set a baking sheet next to the 
bread crumbs.
Working in batches, dredge the grits cakes in the flour mix -
ture, shaking off the excess. Dip the grits cakes in in the beaten 
egg and then in the bread crumbs, lightly pressing the bread 
crumbs into the cakes. Put the grits cakes on the baking sheet.
CONTINUED50  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Fry the grits cakes a few at a time, taking care not to crowd the 
pan, turning once, until the cakes are golden brown, 4 to 5 min -
utes. Transfer to the rack over the baking sheet to keep warm in 
the oven. Repeat with the remaining grits cakes.
In a medium skillet, add water to a depth of about 1 1/2 in/4 cm. 
Generously salt the water and bring to a simmer over medium-  
high heat. Carefully break 4 eggs, one at a time, and slip into the 
water, taking care not to crowd the pan. Cook until the whites 
are set and the yolks are still runny, about 3 minutes. With a 
slotted spoon, transfer the eggs to a kitchen towel to drain. 
Repeat with the remaining 4 eggs.
Place 2 grits cakes on each plate. Top each grits cake with 
1 slice of ham, if using, and 1 poached egg. Spoon the Creole 
Hollandaise over the eggs. Serve immediately.
(To reheat fried cakes, place them on an ungreased baking sheet 
in a 350°F/180°C oven and bake for 10 to 15 minutes.)BREAKFAST & BRUNCH   51MAKES ABOUT 11/2 CUPS/200 G
CREOLE  SPICE MIX
In a small bowl, stir together the salt, herbes de Provence, 
cumin, cayenne, black pepper, and paprika until thoroughly 
combined. (To make ahead, store in an airtight container for up 
to 6 months.)3 TBSP  kosher salt
3 TBSP  herbes de Provence
3 TBSP  ground cumin
1/3 CUP/45 G cayenne pepper
¼ CUP/30 G freshly ground 
black pepper
¼ CUP/30 G sweet paprikaBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   53In a large sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat until shim -
mering. Add the green and red bell peppers, green onions, garlic, 
and the Creole Spice Mix, and cook until the vegetables are 
softened, about 5 minutes. Add the shrimp and sear just until  
opaque, turning once, about 2 minutes. Stir in the Creole Sauce, 
cream, and butter, and bring to a simmer. Add the spinach, a 
handful at a time, stirring to wilt and coat with sauce. Once all 
the spinach has been added, remove the pan from the heat and 
stir in the lemon juice. Serve immediately over the grits.2 TBSP  vegetable oil
¼ CUP/40 G diced green bell 
pepper
¼ CUP/40 G diced red bell 
pepper
3 green onions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
1½ LB/680 G medium shrimp, 
peeled and deveined
¾ CUP/180 ML Creole Sauce 
(page 54)
¼ CUP/60 ML heavy cream
2 TBSP  unsalted butter
5 OZ/140 G baby spinach 
leaves
2 TSP  fresh lemon juice
White Cheddar Grits  
(page 54) for servingCreole food is city food, slightly more rarefied than its rustic Cajun cousin, with roots that 
reach back to Louisiana’s French colonists. You can certainly see the French connection in 
this recipe—the base of the sauce is a brunoise  (finely diced vegetables), the sauce itself is a 
reduction that’s mounted with butter, and the shrimp is cooked with a quick sauté . . . très 
française, n’est pas ? One not-so-French element here is the hefeweizen I use in the Creole 
sauce. Its light, citrusy flavor intensifies as it reduces and helps cut some of the richness of 
this luxurious dish. This dish has quite a following at BSK; it's a popular item on our break -
fast and brunch menu, but it’s equally at home on the dinner table.SERVES 4
CREOLE  
SHRIMP & GRITS54  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN1 TBSP  unsalted butter
2 green onions, white parts 
only, chopped
1 TSP  minced garlic
ONE 12 -oz/360- ml bottle wheat 
beer, such as hefeweizen
¾ CUP/180 ML Worcestershire 
sauceMAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
CREOLE  SAUCE
In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over low heat. Add the 
green onions and garlic, and cook until softened, about 5 min -
utes. Add the beer and Worcestershire sauce and increase the 
heat to medium-high. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and 
cook until thick and syrupy and reduced to about 1 cup/240 ml,  
15 to 20 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool. (To make ahead, 
refrigerate sauce in an airtight container for up to 1 week.)  
SERVES 4
WHITE  CHEDDAR  
GRITS
In a medium saucepan, bring the water to a boil. Whisk in the 
grits, reduce to a simmer, and cook, stirring constantly, until 
the grits are fully cooked and thick like mush, about 4 minutes. 
Stir in the cream, butter, cheese, salt, and white pepper.
Cover and keep warm over very low heat until serving.2 3/4 CUPS/660 ML water
2/3 CUP/95 G quick-cooking grits
2 TBSP  heavy cream
2 TBSP  unsalted butter
4 OZ/115 G sharp white Cheddar 
cheese, grated
1½ TSP  kosher salt
PINCH  of white pepperBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   55In a large pot, cover the sweet potatoes with cold water. Season 
the water generously with salt and bring to a boil. Reduce to a 
simmer and cook until the sweet potatoes are slightly softened, 
about 5 minutes. Drain.
In a medium sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat until 
shimmering. Add the onion and cook until tender and translu -
cent, about 5 minutes. Add the red and yellow bell peppers, kale, 
and green onions, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the bell 
peppers are softened, about 5 minutes. Add the sweet potatoes 
and parsley and season with salt and pepper. Increase the heat 
to medium-high and allow the vegetables to caramelize, stir -
ring occasionally, until well browned and crisp in places, about 
10 minutes.
Serve immediately.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the cooked hash in an airtight con -
tainer for up to 2 days. Reheat in a sauté pan over medium heat 
with 1 tbsp vegetable oil.)2 LB/910 G red-skinned sweet 
potatoes, peeled and cut into 
½-in/12-mm dice
Kosher salt
2 TBSP  vegetable oil
1 yellow onion, cut into 
¼-in/6-mm slices
¼ CUP/40 G diced red bell 
pepper
¼ CUP/40 G diced yellow bell 
pepper
1 bunch kale, stemmed and cut 
into ¼-in/6-mm strips
2 green onions, white and green 
parts, chopped
1 TBSP  chopped fresh parsley
Freshly ground pepperWhen I was in high school and college, I dabbled with being a vegetarian, by which I mean 
that I ate a lot of pasta and every now and then I would sneak a piece of chicken. But then I 
moved to New York City, fell in love with restaurants and cooking, and my vegetarian diet fell 
by the wayside. This dish is one to honor my vegetarian past and my vegetarian friends and 
customers today. Of course, many meat eaters enjoy it too.SERVES 4
SWEET POTATO –KALE 
HASHBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   57In a large pot, cover the potatoes with cold water. Season the 
water generously with salt and bring to a boil. Reduce to a sim -
mer and cook until the potatoes are slightly softened, about  
5 minutes. Drain.
In a medium sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat until 
shimmering. Add the onion and cook until tender and trans -
lucent, about 5 minutes. Add the red and yellow bell peppers, 
spinach, and green onions, and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the bell peppers are softened, about 5 minutes. Add the pota -
toes, pork, and parsley, and season with salt and pepper. Stir in 
the cream and hot pepper sauce to taste (if using). Increase the 
heat to medium-high and allow the vegetables to caramelize, 
stirring occasionally, until the hash is well browned and crisp 
in places, about 10 minutes.
To serve, sprinkle with parsley and top with poached eggs, if 
you like.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the cooked hash in an airtight con -
tainer for up to 3 days. Reheat in a sauté pan over medium heat 
with 1 tbsp vegetable oil.)1 LB/455 G Yukon Gold potatoes, 
cut into ½-in/12-mm dice
Kosher salt
2 TBSP  vegetable oil
1 yellow onion, cut into 
¼-in/6-mm slices
¼ CUP/40 G diced red bell 
pepper
¼ CUP/40 G diced yellow bell 
pepper
1 LB/455 G spinach, stemmed, 
washed, and cut into 
¼-in/6-mm strips
2 green onions, white and green 
parts, chopped
9 OZ/255 G diced cooked 
smoked pork (leftover short 
ribs are delicious)
1 TBSP  chopped fresh 
parsley, plus more for 
garnish
Freshly ground pepper
3 TBSP  heavy cream
Hot pepper sauce (optional)
8 eggs, poached (see page 50; 
optional)Like a musician, I love a great collaboration. This dish came at the suggestion of my friend 
and colleague Amey Shaw, who was helping in our kitchen and noticed that we often had 
leftover jerked baby back ribs and breakfast potatoes that we couldn’t serve the next day. It 
was her brilliant idea to combine the two, and this “use it up” dish has since become a star 
player on our menu. It started as a special that kept selling out. Now we fire up extra ribs and 
potatoes just to make this hash. It also makes an excellent bed for a freshly poached egg.SERVES 4
SMOKED PORK  
HASH58  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENIn a large sauté pan, heat the 1/4 cup/60 ml oil over medium heat 
until shimmering and very hot but not smoking. Add the onion 
and cook, without stirring, until deep brown on the bottom, but 
not burned, about 5 minutes. Add the water and stir the onion. 
Continue cooking, stirring occasionally, until the onions are 
softened and evenly caramelized, about 10 minutes more.
Meanwhile, in another large sauté pan or cast-iron skillet, heat 
the remaining 2 tbsp oil over medium-high heat until shim -
mering. Add the potatoes and salt, and cook, without stirring, 
until the potatoes begin to brown, about 5 minutes. Stir the 
potatoes and add the thyme, tarragon, onion powder, garlic 
powder, cayenne, paprika, and black pepper. Continue to cook, 
stirring occasionally, until the potatoes are browned all over 
and cooked through, about 15 minutes. Stir in the caramelized 
onions. Serve immediately.¼ CUP/60 ML canola oil,  
plus  2 TBSP
1 yellow onion, cut into 
¼-in/6-mm slices
¼ CUP/60 ML water
2 LB/910 G Yukon Gold potatoes, 
cut into 1-in/2.5-cm pieces
2½ TSP  kosher salt
1½ TSP  dried thyme
1 TSP  dried tarragon
¼ TSP  onion powder
¼ TSP  garlic powder
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
¼ TSP  sweet paprika
¼ TSP  freshly ground black 
pepperOn Saturday mornings my dad would make home fries with frozen, cut potatoes, bell pep -
pers, onions, and “secret spices.” I loved to smell them cooking while I was still in bed. At the 
restaurant, I use fresh Yukon Gold potatoes because they have a naturally buttery flavor, and 
a mix of garlic, cayenne, and paprika that gives the dish a real kick. The potatoes are soft on 
the inside and crisp on the outside and the caramelized onions add a touch of sweetness that 
balances the heat.SERVES 6
BSK BREAKFAST 
POTATOES60  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter an 8-by-8-in/20-by-
20-cm Pyrex baking dish.
In a large sauté pan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the 
onion and cook until tender and translucent, about 5 minutes. 
Add the celery and bell pepper and cook until softened, about  
3 minutes more. Add the sausage and cook, stirring occasion -
ally, until the sausage is heated through and begins to brown. 
Stir in the Creole Spice Mix, and remove from the heat.
Add the cornbread to the pan and toss until combined. Spoon the 
cornbread and vegetable mixture into the prepared baking dish.
In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, yolks, milk, cream, and 
1/2 tsp salt. Pour over the cornbread mixture. Cover the baking 
dish with aluminum foil. (To make ahead, refrigerate for up to  
2 days or freeze for up to 1 month.)
Bake, covered, for 30 minutes, or 45 minutes if baking frozen. 
Uncover and bake for 20 to 30 minutes more, until the pudding 
is browned and puffed and a knife inserted in the center comes 
out clean. Let cool for 10 minutes before serving. Cut the bread 
pudding into squares and serve warm.1 TBSP  unsalted butter, plus 
more for the baking dish
½ yellow onion, diced
2 stalks celery, diced
½ yellow or red bell pepper, 
diced
6 OZ/170 G chicken-apple 
sausages, diced, precooked
1 TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
4 CUPS/455 G cubed Buttermilk 
Cornbread (page 106)
4 eggs
2 egg yolks
1½ CUPS/350 ML whole milk
¾ CUP/175 ML heavy cream
Kosher saltThis is a dish I like to make when I have guests for breakfast. I can assemble this the night 
before or even days ahead and refrigerate or freeze it, then pop it in the oven just before 
everyone is ready to eat. You can use turkey or pork sausage, or make it vegetarian by leaving 
out the meat and adding some broccoli.SERVES 6 TO 8
CHICKEN-APPLE  
SAUSAGE  CORNBREAD  
PUDDINGBREAKFAST & BRUNCH   61Preheat the oven to 325°F/165°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper.
In a small saucepan, combine the coconut oil, butter, agave 
syrup, brown sugar, and salt, and bring to a simmer. Remove 
from the heat and stir in the vanilla, cinnamon, and ginger.
In a large bowl, combine the oats, almonds, coconut, pumpkin 
seeds, pine nuts, pistachios, and pecans. Pour the warm oil–
agave syrup mixture over the oat-nut mixture and stir until the 
dry ingredients are evenly coated.
Spread the granola in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet. Bake, stirring several times, until the granola is evenly 
browned, about 25 minutes.
Let cool completely on the baking sheet. Serve at room tem -
perature with yogurt and fruit, if you like.
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container for up to 1 month.)Brown Sugar Kitchen is best known for hot breakfasts, like cornmeal waffles and smoked 
pork hash, but our granola has a following of its own. Making granola at home is easier than 
you think, and you can customize it to your taste: Use more of your favorite nut and leave out 
another one. Add dried blueberries, cranberries, or currants. As long as you keep the ratio of 
nuts to dried fruit the same, your granola will be delicious.SERVES 9
NUTTY  
GRANOLA
¼ CUP/60 ML coconut oil
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter
¾ CUP/180 ML agave syrup
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
1 TSP  kosher salt
1 TSP  vanilla extract
½ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  ground ginger
5 CUPS/430 G rolled oats
1½ CUPS/170 G sliced blanched 
almonds
1 CUP/90 G unsweetened flaked 
coconut
¾ CUP/80 G pumpkin seeds
½ CUP/55 G pine nuts
½ CUP/55 G shelled 
pistachios
½ CUP/55 G pecan pieces
Yogurt for serving 
(optional)
Fresh fruit for serving 
(optional)OAKLAND LOCAL
Running a restaurant in a region with such a rich 
agricultural heritage and with so many small-scale food producers means that it's easy for us to ﬁnd high-quality local ingredients and build relation-ships with the people who make them. I’m partic-ularly proud of the fact that we’re able to get many of our products from people working right here in West Oa kland.
Brown Sugar Kitchen had been open for just about 
six months when Alex Roberts and Andrew Green from RoastCo (their roastery is  less than a mile 
from the restaurant) came to talk to me about their custom blends. We decided to work together to develop a house coffee based on the qualities I like best in my morning cup. I knew I wanted something dark, but not too dark, with rich chocolate notes. With their help, I decided on a medium roast that combines seasonal coffees from several major growing regions.
Alex and Andrew have also played an important 
role in educating our servers and baristas, making sure they understand the nuances of brewing great coffee. We get weekly deliveries of fresh roasted beans and grind them just before brewing. That makes an enormous difference in ﬂavor. Bags of Brown Sugar Kitchen blend beans are sold in a handful of local markets as well as through the RoastCo website, so fans of our coffee can also enjoy it at home.
West Oakland, with its wide trucking thoroughfares 
and huge concrete warehouses, is not a place that one expects to ﬁnd a farm, but in fact, many of the empty lots here have been taken over by intrepid urban farm-ers. It’s not at all unusual to see chickens scratching behind a chain-link fence and tomato plants growing in corner lots. City Slicker Farms , one of the Bay 
Area’s most respected urban agriculture programs, is here. They’ve taken over several vacant lots in 
the neighborhood and turned them into thriving local farms, some with their own farmers’ markets. They also work in backyard gardens, teaching West Oakland residents how to grow their own food—an effort that’s far more empowering than simply pass-ing out bags of groceries.
Though they don’t grow enough vegetables to supply 
our restaurant, I sit on the advisory board and support them with fundraising events. Once a week, someone from the farm comes by the restaurant on a pedal-powered vehicle to pick up food scraps to use for compost and chicken feed back at the farm. It’s a way for us to complete the cycle for food at the restaurant and helps ensure that nothing from our kitchen is ever wasted. Our involvement with City Slicker Farms is a way for Brown Sugar Kitchen to give back to the community that does so much to support us.
When most people think of California wines, they 
picture the large-production wineries in Napa and the beautiful vineyards that wind their way over the Sonoma hillsides. It’s also true that’s there’s some excellent wine made right here in Oakland. Some of our favorites come from Urban Legend . 
Run by Marilee and Steve Shaffer, veterans of the tech world with a strong creative bent, the winery is in a warehouse on the waterfront in Oakland’s Ironworks District near Jack London Square.
It’s the smallest of small businesses. Marilee is the 
winemaker, Steve focuses on marketing; she does the accounting, he designed the website and built the tasting counter. Their wines are particularly food-friendly. I’m a big fan of their grenache blend. It reminds me of wines I drank in the south of France. We also feature their sauvignon blanc, which is nice and crisp and goes well with the spic-ier dishes on our menu.CHAPTER 2
SNACKS  
& SALADSThese are the bits and bites I gravitate to when I want something to eat, but am not 
quite hungry enough for a meal, dishes I put out when I’m having friends over for drinks or a casual meal. Fancy doesn’t ﬁgure in much at those gatherings, but ﬂavor is always at the front of my mind.
I do love a good cocktail party with an ample offering of ﬁnger foods. There’s much to 
admire in a chef who can create a balance of ﬂavors in a single, small mouthful. Here you’ll ﬁnd my own versions of cocktail food, like my baked chicken wings and crisp fried okra, known to convert the most ardent okra-phobes. You’ll see, too, that I like t o  t i n k e r  w i t h  E u r o p e a n  c l a s s i c s ,  l i k e  g o u g è r e s ,  B u r g u n d i a n  c h e e s e  p u ff s ,  t h a t  I ’ v e  spiked with andouille, one of my favorite Cajun sausages.
I’m especially sensitive to seasonality, and few dishes better illustrate the importance 
of balancing ingredients and textures than salads do. One, like the Little Gems with shrimp and Thousand Island dressing, is a dance between the crisp heads of lettuce, sweet, briny shrimp, and that luscious, thick dressing. Too much lettuce, too few shrimp, and a heavy hand with the Thousand Island, and the dish is a mess. But bring it all together in just the right measure, and it’s an elegant, irresistible addition to a meal.
I’ve chosen this collection for you as many are on our menu and we run a composed 
salad special that changes weekly. Here are some of my favorites.68  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line two large rimmed bak -
ing sheets with aluminum foil and lightly coat with oil.
If using whole wings, separate the sections of chicken wings  
at the joints, discarding or saving the wing tip portion for 
another use.
In a large bowl, combine the mustard, ginger, salt, black pepper, 
allspice, and cayenne.
In a small saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add 
the garlic and cook until garlic is fragrant and softened, about  
2 minutes. Stir in the chipotle sauce, Tabasco sauce, Crystal hot 
sauce, and honey, and bring to a simmer, about 5 minutes. (To 
make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 2 days.)
Pour about half of the sauce into the large bowl with the dry 
spices, and stir until combined. (Reserve the remaining sauce 
in the pan.) Add the chicken wings and toss until the wings are 
evenly coated with the sauce.
Spread the chicken wings in a single layer on the prepared bak -
ing sheets. Be sure that the chicken wings have enough space 
between them to brown well on all sides. Bake for 25 minutes, 
then flip the wings, and bake for 25 minutes more, until the 
wings are cooked through and well browned.Vegetable oil for the baking 
sheets
4 LB/1.8 KG  whole chicken 
wings or  3 L B/1.4 KG  trimmed
1 TBSP  dry mustard
1 TSP  ground ginger
1 TSP  kosher salt
1 TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
¼ TSP  ground allspice
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter
4 large garlic cloves, minced
1 TBSP  sauce from canned 
chipotle chiles in adobo
2 TSP  Tabasco sauce
2 TBSP  Crystal hot sauce
2/3 CUP/225 G honeyThe search for great chicken wings is over. We serve these at our sister restaurant, B-Side 
BBQ, and it's one of those dishes that always get a big reaction (like Phil jumping up and 
down). Great wings make people happy. These are perfect for game night or for no particular 
reason at all. The beauty is that they’re baked and gluten-free and you can adjust the season -
ing to your taste. Wings have become so popular that markets now sell them trimmed and 
ready to use, often labeled “party wings.”MAKES ABOUT 20 WINGS
SPICY  
BAKED  WINGSSNACKS  & SALADS  69 SNACKS  & SALADS  69Reheat the remaining sauce over medium heat until bubbling,  
4 to 5 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl. Add the hot wings to 
the bowl and toss until the wings are well coated with the sauce. 
Serve warm or at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, refrigerate the baked wings for up to 3 days. 
To reheat, spread the chilled wings on a foil-lined baking sheet 
and bake in a 300°F/150°C oven for about 10 minutes.)SNACKS  & SALADS  71Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line two baking sheets with 
parchment paper.
In a large saucepan, combine the water, butter, and 1/2 tsp salt. 
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat. When the butter has 
melted, add the flour all at once, stirring vigorously with a 
wooden spoon. Reduce the heat to medium, and keep stirring 
until the mixture has formed a smooth, thick paste and pulls 
away from the sides of the pan, about 3 minutes. Transfer to the 
bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or to a 
large heatproof bowl.
If using a stand mixer, add 4 eggs, one at a time, mixing on low 
speed until the egg is incorporated and the dough is smooth 
before adding the next egg. (If mixing by hand, add 4 eggs, one 
at a time, stirring with a wooden spoon until the egg is incor -
porated and the dough is smooth before adding the next egg.) 
The mixture should be very thick, smooth, and shiny. Stir in the 
Gruyère and andouille. (To make ahead, cover the bowl tightly 
with plastic wrap and refrigerate for up to 1 day.)
Use a tablespoon to drop the dough into 1-in/2.5-cm rounds 
about 11/2 in/4 cm apart on the prepared baking sheets. You 
should have about 2 dozen gougères.
CONTINUED1 CUP/240 ML water
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter
Kosher salt
1 CUP/125 G all-purpose flour
5 eggs
2½ OZ/70 G Gruyère cheese, 
grated
4 OZ/115 G andouille sausage, 
choppedGougères are sophisticated cheese puffs and are the appetizer of choice in Burgundy, 
France, where I went to cooking school. They're made from a base known as pâté à choux, 
a very elementary dough and one of the first I learned to make. Don’t be intimidated by the 
fancy French name. Pâté à choux is easy to master and versatile too. It’s the foundation for 
many famous pastries including éclairs and cream puffs, and as you see here, it also comes 
in handy for savory treats. For this Cajun-inspired version, I decided that a crumble of spicy 
andouille might just put them over the top.MAKES ABOUT TWO DOZEN GOUGÈRES
ANDOUILLE  
GOUGÈRES72  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a small bowl, whisk the remaining egg with a pinch of salt  
to make an egg wash. Brush the top of each gougère with the  
egg wash.
Bake for 15 minutes. Reduce the oven to 375°F/190°C, rotate 
the baking sheets, and continue baking until the gougères are 
puffed and nicely browned, about 15 minutes more.
Serve warm or at room temperature.
(Baked gougères can be frozen for up to 1 month. Reheat in a   
350°F/180°C oven for 8 to 10 minutes.)SNACKS  & SALADS  73Trim the okra, cut into 1/4-in/6-mm slices, and refrigerate for 
about 30 minutes. Preheat the oven to 250°F/120°C.
In a large cast-iron frying pan at least 4 in/10 cm deep, add oil 
to a depth of 2 in/5 cm. Heat the oil over medium heat until it 
reaches 350°F/180°C on an instant-read thermometer. The 
oil should be hot but not smoking. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with paper towels and set a wire rack on top.
In a shallow dish, combine the cornmeal, flour, and the Creole 
Spice Mix. In another shallow dish, pour the buttermilk.
A handful at a time, add the chilled okra slices to the butter -
milk, tossing gently with a fork until they are well coated. Using 
a slotted spoon and letting any excess buttermilk drip back into 
the bowl, transfer the okra to the cornmeal mixture. Toss the 
okra pieces in the cornmeal mixture until they are well coated.
Fry the okra, a few large spoonfuls at a time, taking care not to 
crowd the pan and turning occasionally, until crisp and lightly 
browned, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer to the rack over the baking 
sheet and keep warm in the oven. Repeat with the remaining okra.
Season with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.2 LB/910 G okra
Vegetable oil for frying
1 CUP/140 G cornmeal
½ CUP/60 G all-purpose flour
1 TBSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
1 CUP/240 ML buttermilk
Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepperThis is an okra dish that handily converts haters of this often maligned vegetable. Dredged in 
a slightly spicy cornmeal mixture and quickly fried, these little nuggets are deliciously crisp 
and never have that bit of sliminess that turns some folks off. Refrigerating the okra slices 
before frying is an extra bit of anti-slime insurance.SERVES 6
CORNMEAL-COATED  
OKRA BITES74  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENTo make the vinaigrette:  Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.  
In a small baking dish, add the tomato, drizzle with oil, and sea -
son with salt and pepper. Bake until the tomato is roasted and 
the juices are lightly caramelized, 15 to 20 minutes. Let cool to 
room temperature. Do not turn off the oven.
In a blender or food processor, combine the tomato, 1/4 cup/  
60 ml oil, shallots, thyme, and vinegar, and process until blended 
but still slightly chunky. Season with salt and pepper. (To make 
ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.)
To make the croutons:  On a baking sheet, spread the corn -
bread in a single layer and drizzle with oil and sprinkle with 
salt. Bake, turning the croutons over once or twice, until they 
are slightly browned, about 15 minutes.
In a large salad bowl, toss the mixed greens, bacon, and 
croutons with about 1/4 cup/60 ml of the vinaigrette. Serve 
immediately.ROASTED TOMATO & 
THYME VINAIGRETTE
1 ripe Roma tomato, peeled, 
halved, and seeded
¼ CUP/60 ML extra-virgin olive 
oil, plus more for drizzling
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
2 TSP  minced shallots
½ TSP  fresh thyme leaves
1 TBSP  red wine vinegar
CROUTONS
3 OZ/85 G Buttermilk 
Cornbread (page 106), cut into 
1-in/2.5-cm cubes
Extra-virgin olive oil for 
drizzling
Kosher salt
12 OZ/340 G mixed greens (such 
as baby romaine, frisée, oak 
leaf lettuce, baby spinach, and 
arugula), torn into bite-size 
pieces
2 strips cooked bacon, 
crumbledThis is a perfect salad for brunch; just add a poached or soft-boiled egg. The recipe for the 
roasted tomato and thyme vinaigrette makes more than you need for this salad, but you’ll 
want to have plenty of it on hand for other uses. It makes a delicious sauce for grilled fish and 
is terrific drizzled on a steak.SERVES 4
MIXED GREENS  WITH 
ROASTED TOMATO  & THYME 
VINAIGRETTESNACKS  & SALADS  75To make the dressing:  In a small saucepan, combine the 
apple, shallot, garlic, thyme, and apple cider and cook over 
medium heat until the apple is tender and most of the liquid 
has cooked down, about 10 minutes. In a blender or food pro -
cessor, combine the cooked apple mixture with the vinegar and 
process until smooth. With the blender running, drizzle in the 
canola and olive oils and process until smooth. Season with 
salt and pepper. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight con -
tainer for up to 3 days.)
In a large salad bowl, combine the spinach, frisee, apple, chèvre, 
and pecans. Season with salt and pepper and toss with 2 tbsp of 
the dressing. Serve immediately.
Toasting nuts or spices
Heat a dry frying pan over medium heat. Add the nuts or spices 
and toast, stirring occasionally just until fragrant.ROASTED APPLE 
DRESSING
1 firm, tart apple, such as 
Honeycrisp or Fuji, cored, 
peeled, and chopped into 
1/2-in/12-mm pieces
1 large shallot, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
1 TBSP  fresh thyme leaves
1 CUP/240 ML apple cider or 
good-quality apple juice
¼ CUP/60 ML apple cider 
vinegar
¼ CUP/60 ML canola oil
¼ CUP/60 ML extra-virgin  
olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
6 OZ/170 G baby spinach leaves
1 generous handful frisee
1 firm, tart apple, such as 
Honeycrisp or Fuji, cored, 
peeled, and thinly sliced
3 OZ/85 G chèvre or other soft 
goat cheese, crumbled
½ CUP/55 G pecan pieces, 
toasted and chopped
Kosher salt and freshly  
ground pepperA great salad must be perfectly dressed, with dressing lightly coating each leaf. None of this 
drizzle-over-the-top stuff. I like to mix frisée with spinach to add to the color and texture. The 
addition of some protein—roast chicken, roast turkey, or smoked trout—turns this salad into 
a satisfying main course.SERVES 4
SPINACH SALAD  
WITH ROASTED APPLE DRESSING,  
TOASTED PECANS & 
GOAT CHEESESNACKS  & SALADS  77To make the dressing:  In a blender or food processor, com -
bine the cucumber, buttermilk, sour cream, shallot, chives, 
parsley, honey, lemon juice, paprika, and cayenne, and process 
until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. (To make ahead, 
refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 1 week.)
In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook the snap peas just 
until tender, about 5 minutes. Drain and let cool to room tem -
perature. Cut into 1/2-in/12-mm pieces.
Using a vegetable peeler, shave the radishes, carrot, and aspar -
agus spears into thin slices or thinly slice with a knife. Break 
apart the romaine head and tear the leaves into large pieces.
Put the lettuce on a large serving platter, and scatter the shaved 
vegetables and the snap peas on top. Add the cucumber-buttermilk 
dressing and gently combine. Serve immediately.CUCUMBER-
BUTTERMILK 
DRESSING
1 small cucumber, peeled, 
seeded, and grated
¼ CUP/60 ML buttermilk
1 TBSP  sour cream
1 TBSP  minced shallot
1 TSP  chopped fresh chives
1 TSP  chopped fresh parsley
½ TSP  honey or agave syrup
1 TSP  fresh lemon juice
¼ TSP  sweet paprika
1/8 TSP  cayenne pepper
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
4 OZ/115 G sugar snap peas, 
trimmed and tough strings 
removed
4 radishes
1 carrot, peeled
2 thick spears asparagus, 
tough ends snapped off
1 large head romaine  
lettuceRomaine demands a dressing that clings. Like iceberg, it contains a lot of water and needs 
a flavorful dressing to boost its appeal. This dressing is subtle, but nicely balanced with the 
herbs and cucumber flavors. Buttermilk gives it the creamy quality of a rich dressing without 
the heaviness of one based on mayonnaise or cream.SERVES 4
ROMAINE SALAD  WITH  
SPRING VEGETABLES  
& CUCUMBER-BUTTERMILK  
DRESSINGSNACKS  & SALADS  79In a large bowl, cover the black-eyed peas with 2 to 3 in/5 to  
7.5 cm of cold water and let soak overnight.
Drain and rinse the beans, and transfer them to a large soup pot. 
Add enough fresh cold water to cover the beans by about 3 in/  
7.5 cm. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until peas 
are tender, 30 to 40 minutes. Stir in the salt and allow the beans 
to rest for 5 minutes to absorb the salt. Drain the peas and let 
cool to room temperature.
Transfer the peas to a large bowl. Add the onion, bell peppers, 
jalapeño, parsley, and cilantro. Stir to combine. Season with 
salt and pepper.
In a small bowl, whisk together the vinegar and oil. Add this 
dressing to salad and toss before serving. Serve at room 
temperature.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the salad for up to 3 days. Bring to 
room temperature before serving.)3 CUPS/600 G dried black-eyed 
peas, picked over and rinsed
1 TBSP  Kosher salt
½ white onion, diced
½ CUP/120 G diced roasted red 
bell peppers, freshly roasted or 
jarred
1 TBSP  minced jalapeño chile
2 TSP  chopped fresh parsley
2 TSP  chopped fresh cilantro
Salt and freshly ground pepper
3 TBSP  red wine vinegar
3 TSP  olive oilI’m not sure why, but sometimes it takes a bit of convincing to get people to try black-eyed 
peas. Somewhere along the way, these beans developed a reputation as muddy tasting and 
mushy. Well, not my black-eyed peas and not this recipe. The key is to not overcook the beans 
and to strain them out of their cooking liquid once they’re done. Then their flavor is delicate 
and earthy and the texture just right to the bite. I love them tossed in this simple vinaigrette 
with a few other vegetables and lots of fresh herbs.SERVES 6 TO 8
BLACK-EYED PEA 
SALAD80  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENTo make the dressing:  In a small saucepan, cover the egg 
with cold water and bring to a boil. Once the water boils, cover 
the pan, turn off the heat, and let stand for 7 minutes. Drain and 
rinse the egg with cold water. Peel and chop the egg.
In a small bowl, combine the chopped egg, mayonnaise, chili 
sauce, pickle relish, green onion, olives, parsley, cayenne, 
paprika, and garlic powder. Season with salt and pepper. (To 
make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.)
In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook the shrimp until 
opaque, about 2 minutes. Drain and let cool. Peel the shrimp 
and remove the dark vein that runs down the back.
Arrange the lettuce on a chilled serving platter and top with 
the shrimp. Pour the dressing over all. Serve immediately.THOUSAND ISLAND 
DRESSING
1 egg
½ CUP/115 G mayonnaise
2 TBSP  chili sauce, such as 
Heinz
1 TBSP  sweet pickle relish
1 green onion, white part only, 
chopped
1 TBSP  finely chopped pimento-
stuffed green olives
1 TSP  chopped fresh parsley
1/8 TSP  cayenne pepper
1/8 TSP  smoked paprika
1/8 TSP  garlic powder
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
8 OZ/225 G medium shrimp
4 HEADS  Little Gems lettuce, 
torn into bite-size piecesIf you can’t find Little Gems, substitute romaine lettuce. You want a hearty green that can 
hold this thick, chunky dressing. I like the addition of shrimp in this salad, which turns it into 
a main course. At the restaurant, our smoker is always going, so we cook the shrimp in it to 
give the salad another layer of flavor. You can do the same at home, with a gas or charcoal 
grill, if you like. Many of us grew up with the bottled Thousand Island dressing, which seems 
quite mundane until you make it from scratch—then it becomes divine.SERVES 4
LITTLE GEMS & 
SHRIMP SALAD  WITH 
THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSINGSNACKS  & SALADS  81In a large saucepan, cover the potatoes with cold water. Season 
the water generously with salt and bring to a boil. Reduce to a 
simmer and cook until the potatoes are tender but not falling 
apart, about 15 minutes. Drain and transfer to a large bowl.
In a small saucepan, cover the eggs with cold water and bring 
to a boil. Once the water boils, cover the pan, turn off the heat, 
and let stand for 7 minutes. Drain and rinse the eggs with cold 
water. Peel and dice the eggs.
In a small bowl, combine the eggs, green onions, celery, mayon -
naise, garlic, lemon juice, the Dijon and whole-grain mustards, 
paprika, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Gently fold into the warm 
potatoes; it is important to dress the potatoes while they're 
warm so they soak up the flavors. Serve immediately. Or refrig -
erate for up to 12 hours to let the flavors meld; bring to room 
temperature before serving.1½ LB/680 G Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and cut into 
1-in/2.5-cm pieces
2 eggs
3 green onions, white and green 
parts, chopped
1 stalk celery, diced
¾ CUP/170 G mayonnaise
3 garlic cloves, minced
Juice of 1 lemon
1 TBSP  Dijon mustard
1 TBSP  whole-grain mustard
¼ TSP  sweet paprika
2 TBSP  apple cider vinegar
2 TSP  kosher salt
¼ TSP  freshly ground pepperWhen I was growing up, the ingredients for the best potato salad were the subject of ongoing 
debate. Eggs or no eggs? Sweet pickle relish or dill? White or green onions? Mustard and 
mayo? Firm cooked potatoes or mashed to a purée? Over the years I’ve tried them all and 
come up with this version, which gets my vote as the absolute best. I love this potato salad at 
room temperature, but it can be refrigerated to let the flavors meld for several hours or up to 
overnight before serving.SERVES 4 TO 6
PICNIC- WORTHY  
POTATO SALAD82  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
To make the vinaigrette:  In a blender or food processor, 
combine the vinegar, onion, garlic, jalapeño, oil, and salt and 
process until smooth. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an air -
tight container for up to 3 days.)
In a large salad bowl, combine the cabbage, onion, and cilantro. 
Sprinkle with the celery seeds, salt, and pepper and mix thor -
oughly. Add the vinaigrette and toss to thoroughly coat. Serve 
immediately. (To make ahead, refrigerate the salad for up to  
2 days. Bring to room temperature before serving.)VINAIGRETTE
¼ CUP/60 ML red wine vinegar
1 red onion, cut into rough 
chunks
3 garlic cloves, peeled
2 jalapeño chiles, coarsely 
chopped
1½ CUPS/360 ML canola oil
½ TSP  kosher salt
1 small green cabbage, cut into 
1/8-in/4-mm shreds
1 red onion, cut into 1/8-in/4-mm 
slices
2 TBSP  chopped fresh cilantro
½ TSP  celery seeds
¼ TSP  kosher salt
¼ TSP  freshly ground pepperThis coleslaw is one of my favorite side dishes—I eat it several times a week. It’s light and 
refreshing, without any of the heaviness of mayonnaise. Its slight acidic flavor makes it a great 
partner for richer, meaty dishes like our BBQ Pulled-Pork Sandwich (see page 123) or Jerk 
Baby Back Ribs with Pineapple Salsa (see page 138). The green cabbage doesn’t bleed like red 
cabbage does, so you can dress it several hours before serving—ideal for taking on a picnic.SERVES 4 TO 6
SPICY  GREEN  
COLESLAWLA CHICA MALA 
AKA CYNTHIA CURIEL
DOG WALKER AND SKATER FOR THE B.AY A.REA D.ERBY GIRLS
Lives:  Dogtown, West Oakland, since 2012
Regular order:  Eggs and grits, and an iced soy latte with 
vanilla syrup
I got to know the neighborhood in 2010, when I started coming 
here for roller derby practice. (The rink is directly across the street from Brown Sugar Kitchen.) I liked what I saw and ended up moving here from San Francisco in 2012. There are a lot of families buying homes and a huge number of artists living here. It’s a very diverse community. There are fancy, fancy lofts that the commuters live in, and then there’s the low-income housing. Then I see people like me. It’s an interest-ing place. It’s not perfect, but it’s sunny and affordable. I can’t emphasize enough how much I love my house and my yard, and the sunshine. I rarely have time for a sit-down breakfast, but I come to Brown Sugar Kitchen every morning for coffee. I used to bring a jar of vanilla syrup to add to it. It’s just something I have to have, but then Tanya noticed what I was doing and she started making vanilla syrup just for me. I’m sure I’m the only one who ever orders it, but it’s always here for me.
My husband, Phil Surkis, never intended to make Brown Sugar 
Kitchen his career. I told him I wanted to open a restaurant on our ﬁrst date (we dined on barbecue and Champagne, by the way), and he didn’t back down.
As the opening of Brown Sugar Kitchen approached, Phil 
became what he likes to call “the accidental restaurateur,” taking on what amounted to be almost a second full-time job in addition to his day job as a workers’-compensation claims adjuster. He quickly learned that when you marry a chef, the restaurant becomes the family business. In 2012 he quit claims adjusting, and now devotes all his time to our restaurants.
I knew Phil had a great palate and appetite for excellent food, 
but I didn’t realize that he had another set of skills that are perfect for the restaurant business. His official titles are Waffle Hustler (at Brown Sugar Kitchen) and Rib Wrangler (at B-Side BBQ). He’s really a jack-of-all-trades. You may ﬁnd him working at the door during Sunday brunch while I’m cooking in the kitchen. Most evenings, he heads over to B-Side BBQ, where he watches over things from his perch behind the bar while he mixes cocktails. If I had to give Phil one more title, it would be “vibe-ologist,” as he’s always making sure the music, the lighting, and the vibe are just right. He’ll tell you that his favorite thing to do is to put together playlists that keep us dancing on the line. My favorite is one he calls the Waffle Mix. It was the ﬁrst playlist he made back in 2008 shortly after Brown Sugar Kitchen opened, and though I’ve listened to it hundreds of times, it never gets old.Gene Harris & the Three 
Sounds: Sitting Duck
Quincy Jones: Summer in  
the City
Sly & Robbie: Yes We CanConnie Price & the Keystones: 
Sucker Punch
Dennis Bovell: SmoucheNicole Willis & the Soul 
Investigators: Feeling Free
The Heptones: Book of RulesTony! Toni! Toné!: Thinking  
of You
Dianne Reeves: Down Here on 
the Ground
Nat “King” Cole: Calypso Blues 
(one of my favorites!)
Darondo: Didn’t IAsa: Fire on the MountainBetty Wright: Clean Up WomanSugarhill Gang: Rapper’s 
Reprise
Lightning Head: N.P.G.Shirley Bassey: Light My FireEstelle: Wait a Minute (Just a 
Touch)
Al Green: Lay It DownTHE ACCIDENTAL 
RESTAURATEURCHAPTER 3
VEGETABLES  
& SIDESI grew up eating vegetables cooked Southern style, which, more often than not, meant 
they were cooked for hours and seasoned with pork. Then I went to France and dis-covered vegetables prepared wi th a bi t of bi te left in them and seasoned wi th things  like fresh herbs and olive oil. It was a revelation. At Brown Sugar Kitchen, I take the vegetables I grew up eating—black-eyed peas, sweet potatoes, and collard greens—and prepare them using techniques I learned abroad. These days I sauté my collard greens in olive oil and season them with red onion and garlic instead of fatback, and roast green beans instead of boiling them. Writing for Citysearch, Bryan Miller, a former New York Times  restaurant critic, said that I cook like your grandmother, if 
your “grandmother has a diploma from a Paris cooking school.” I like to think he was talking about my vegetables.
People are often surprised to learn that we don’t add pork to our collards, but I made a 
conscious decision when I opened the restaurant to keep the side dishes meat-free. It’s important to me that that our vegetarian customers feel as welcome as the omnivores.
Side dishes play a large role on a Southern-inﬂuenced menu, and Southern cooks have 
historically been known as much for their signature side dishes as their main courses. We honor this tradition by highlighting them on our menus as well.  VEGETABLES & SIDES   91Preheat the oven to 450°F/230°C and set a rack to the top posi -
tion. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a small bowl, stir together the garlic, oil, vinegar, tahini, 
sesame seeds, and red pepper flakes. Add the green beans and 
toss until evenly coated. Season with salt and black pepper.
Spread the beans in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet and roast, tossing occasionally, until tender and lightly 
browned, about 20 minutes. Serve immediately.3 garlic cloves, smashed
½ CUP/120 ML extra-virgin  
olive oil
2 TBSP  Champagne vinegar
2 TBSP  tahini
1 TBSP  sesame seeds
1 TSP  red pepper flakes
1 LB/455 G green beans, 
trimmed 
Coarse salt and freshly  
ground black pepperI can get a little bored with green beans. I really enjoy them mixed with other vegetables 
in salads, but alone I think they need some finesse. Sesame seeds made their way into the 
Southern kitchen with the slaves who were brought here from Africa. Often called benne 
seeds in the South, they were one of the many exotic ingredients brought to this country that 
we now take for granted. Photographer Jody Horton and his team thought these made excel -
lent finger food.SERVES 6
ROASTED  GREEN BEANS  
WITH SESAME-SEED 
DRESSING92  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENStack 5 to 7 collard greens, roll them like a cigar, and slice into 
thin strips. Repeat with the remaining collard greens.
In a large sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat until shim -
mering. Add the onion, garlic, and red pepper flakes, and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until the onion and garlic are softened 
but not brown, about 3 minutes.
Add the sliced collards to the pan. Using tongs, toss the collards 
with the oil and onions, cooking just until the collards are 
bright green, about 2 minutes. Season with salt and black pep -
per. Serve immediately. 
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
3 days. Reheat in a small saucepan with a small amount of 
water over medium heat.)4 LB/1.8 KG  collard greens, 
large stems removed
2 TBSP  olive oil
1 red onion, sliced
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 TSP  red pepper flakes
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepperTrue to my Southern heritage, I grew up eating collard greens that were cooked for a long 
time. As I learned when I visited a plantation in Georgia, part of this tradition began when 
slaves left pots of food cooking while they tended the fields. Since tough cuts of meat were 
used to season the greens, the long cooking was necessary to tenderize the meat. At Brown 
Sugar Kitchen, we’ve left that tradition behind. I’ve found that sautéing the greens briefly in 
olive oil and seasoning them with garlic and red pepper flakes makes a great-tasting dish.SERVES 6
SIMPLY  SAUTÉED  
COLLARD GREENS  VEGETABLES & SIDES   93In a large bowl, cover the black-eyed peas with 2 to 3 in/5 to  
7.5 cm of cold water and let soak overnight.
Drain and rinse the beans, and transfer them to a large soup pot. 
Add enough fresh cold water to cover the beans by about 3 in/  
7.5 cm. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until peas 
are tender, 30 to 40 minutes. Drain the peas and let cool to 
room temperature.
In a large saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the 
green onions, bell pepper, garlic, squash, corn, and 1/2 tsp salt 
and cook until the vegetables are tender, about 15 minutes.
Stir in the black-eyed peas and the stock and bring to a simmer. 
Add the sour cream, nutmeg, cayenne, and thyme. Reduce the 
heat to medium-low and simmer until the mixture is slightly 
thickened, about 8 minutes. Season with salt and black pepper. 
Serve immediately.¾ CUP/150 G dried black-  
eyed peas
1 TBSP  unsalted butter
6 green onions, white and green 
parts, chopped
½ red bell pepper, chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1 LB/455 G summer squash, 
such as zucchini and yellow 
crookneck, diced
2 CUPS/490 G fresh corn 
kernels (from about 2 ears)
Kosher salt
1 CUP/240 ML chicken stock
1/3 CUP/75 ML sour cream or 
crème fraîche
¼ TSP  grated nutmeg
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
1 TSP  chopped fresh thyme
Freshly ground black  
pepperAll that many people know of this dish is Sylvester the cat famously stuttering “sufferin’ suc -
cotash,” on the Saturday-morning cartoons. But succotash is an actual dish, and a very good 
one too. The name comes from a Native American term that describes boiled vegetables. 
There are several regional variations, but most contain corn, lima beans, or both, cooked in 
a buttery broth. Here I’ve added summer squash and included black-eyed peas instead of 
limas. I think this combination of vegetables and beans really flatter one another, with con -
trasting colors, textures, and flavors.SERVES 6
SUMMER SQUASH 
SUCCOTASH94  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
If the okra pods are small, leave them whole; otherwise cut into 
1-in/2.5-cm pieces.
In a wide sauté pan, heat 2 tbsp of the oil over medium-high heat 
until shimmering. Add the onion and a pinch of salt and cook, 
stirring occasionally, until the onions start to brown, about  
8 minutes. Add the remaining 1 tbsp oil, the okra, red and yellow 
bell peppers, and a pinch of salt and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the peppers soften and the vegetables start to brown, 10 to  
15 minutes.
Add the tomatoes, garlic, thyme, oregano, paprika, cayenne, and 
water. Cover partially and bring to a simmer. Reduce the heat 
to medium and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables 
are tender, about 10 minutes. Uncover the pan, stir in the basil 
and vinegar, and cook for about 30 seconds more. Season with 
salt and pepper. Serve immediately.1 LB/455 G okra, trimmed
3 TBSP  olive oil
1 large red onion, halved and 
sliced
Kosher salt
2 red bell peppers, seeded and 
sliced into ¼-in/ 6-mm strips
2 yellow or orange bell peppers,  
seeded and sliced into ¼-in/ 
6-mm strips
1 ¼ LB/570  G tomatoes, seeded 
and chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 TSP  fresh thyme
1 TSP  fresh oregano
1 TSP  sweet paprika
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
1/3 CUP/75 ML water
1 TBSP  finely chopped fresh 
basil leaves
2 TBSP  balsamic vinegar
Freshly ground black pepperFor this updated dish of stewed okra and tomatoes, I look to Southern Italy for bell pep -
pers and onion along with some fresh herbs and balsamic vinegar. This mixture makes a 
great vegetarian main course served with grits cakes (see page 47) or an accompaniment to 
smoked meats. When shopping, look for small okra pods. They’re ideal for this dish.SERVES 6
OKRA  
PEPERONATA96  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 400°F/200°C.
To make the harissa:  Rub the poblano and jalapeño with  
1 tsp of the oil and wrap loosely in aluminum foil. Roast until 
very tender, about 1 hour. Let the poblano and jalapeño cool 
in the foil. Peel off the skins and remove the cores, seeds, and 
stems.
Meanwhile, in a small sauté pan, heat 1 tbsp oil over medium 
heat until shimmering. Add the onion and garlic, and cook until 
the onion is tender and translucent, about 10 minutes. Stir in 
the thyme, turmeric, cinnamon, and cloves and let cool.
In a blender or food processor, combine the onion mixture, the 
poblano, jalapeño, honey, mint, and the remaining 8 tsp/40 ml 
olive oil and process to a coarse paste.
Reduce the oven temperature to 350°F/180°C. In a 1 1/2-qt/  
1.4-L baking dish, spread about a quarter of the potato slices 
in a single layer. Season lightly with salt and pepper and 
spread about 2 tbsp of the harissa paste on top and cover with 
about 1/4 cup/60 ml of the cream. Repeat three more times, 
until all the potatoes, harissa, and cream have been used, end -
ing with a layer of harissa.GREEN HARISSA
1 poblano chile
1 small jalapeño chile
¼ CUP/60 ML olive oil
1 small yellow onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, chopped
1 TSP  fresh thyme
PINCH  of turmeric
PINCH of ground cinnamon
PINCH of ground cloves
1½ TSP  honey
2 TBSP  chopped fresh mint
2½ LB/1.2 KG  russet potatoes, 
peeled and cut into thin slices
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
1 CUP/240 ML heavy creamThere was a point in my career when I became obsessed with North African flavors. It 
began while I was living in France when I made an Algerian friend who made couscous from 
scratch. Later I discovered Paula Wolfert’s wonderful book Couscous and Other Good Food 
from Morocco.  And then I went to work at a restaurant where ras el hanout  and harissa 
were incorporated into French bistro-style dishes. Traditionally, harissa—an aromatic spice 
paste—is made with a red piri piri chile, but here I’ve made a green chile harissa to give a kick 
to a classic potato gratin.SERVES 6
GREEN CHILE – 
HARISSA  
POTATO  GRATIN  VEGETABLES & SIDES   97Bake until the potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife, 
about 1 hour. If the top begins to brown too much, cover with a 
sheet of aluminum foil. Let cool for about 15 minutes. Serve warm.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the cooked potato gratin for up to  
3 days. Reheat in a 350°F/180°C oven until heated through, 
about 25 minutes.)  VEGETABLES & SIDES   99Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Line a baking sheet with 
parchment paper.
Prick each sweet potato several times with a fork and put on 
the prepared baking sheet. Bake until tender when pierced with 
a fork, about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool 
slightly.
Cut each sweet potato lengthwise into 1-in /2.5-cm wedges.
Arrange wedges on one layer on the baking sheet and season with 
salt, the olive oil, and the Creole Spice Mix. Bake an additional  
5 minutes, then flip the wedges and bake another 5 to 7 minutes, 
until crisp and slightly browned.
Arrange the wedges on a serving platter and serve immediately.3 LB/1.4 KG  red-skinned 
sweet potatoes, scrubbed and 
unpeeled
Kosher salt
2 TBSP  olive oil, plus more if 
needed
2 TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)I spent months trying to make sweet potato fries, before I realized that I just didn’t feel that 
immersing them in oil enhanced the texture or flavor. I wanted to make something simpler 
and more healthful but still delicious, and this is it. I like these with a side of buttermilk dress -
ing. It makes a cool, creamy contrast to balance the spicy flavors of the sweet potatoes.SERVES 6 TO 8
BAKED  
SWEET  POTATO  
WEDGES100  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
In an ovenproof baking dish, spread the sweet potatoes in a 
single layer. Add just enough water to come 1/4 in/6 mm up the 
sides of the potatoes and cover with aluminum foil. Bake until 
the potatoes are almost tender, about 45 minutes.
Ignite an electric grill and set to 200°F/95°C, or start a small 
fire in a charcoal grill. If using an electric grill, place hickory, 
mesquite, or any other aromatic wood chips in a piece of foil 
and punch holes in the foil with a fork. Set the foil package on 
top of the grill grates. (If using a charcoal grill, place the wood 
chips directly on the charcoal.)
Set the baking dish with the sweet potatoes on the grate. Cover 
the grill and allow the sweet potatoes to smoke for 13 minutes.
If using a food processor, combine the sweet potatoes, maple 
syrup, cream, melted butter, and cayenne and process until 
smooth. (If mixing by hand, in a large bowl, mash until smooth.) 
If the sweet potatoes are too thick, stir in a little water. Taste 
and season with salt.
Transfer to a serving bowl and top with the room-temperature 
butter. Serve immediately.2 LB/910 G orange-fleshed sweet 
potatoes, peeled and quartered
6 TBSP/90 ML pure maple syrup
¼ CUP/60 ML heavy cream
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter, 
melted, plus THIN SLICE  of 
unsalted butter, at room 
temperature
PINCH  of cayenne pepper
Kosher saltWe fuel our smoker with applewood and oak, a combination we find subtler than the hickory 
we use at B-Side, our barbecue joint. It’s perfect for these sweet potatoes. We discovered 
through trial and error that 13 minutes is just the right amount of time to give the potatoes a 
gentle smoky taste that doesn’t mask their natural sweetness. You’ll be amazed at how easy 
the smoking process is and how much flavor it adds to this simple dish.SERVES 6
SMOKED MASHED  
SWEET POTATOES  VEGETABLES & SIDES   101In a large bowl, cover the navy beans with 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm 
of cold water and let soak overnight.
Drain and rinse the beans, and transfer them to a large soup 
pot. Add the onion quarters, garlic, and ham hock and enough 
fresh cold water to cover the beans by about 1 in/2.5 cm. Bring 
to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until the beans are ten -
der, about 1 hour. Drain the beans, reserving the cooking liquid, 
and transfer them to an ovenproof baking dish. Pull the meat 
off the ham hock and reserve, discarding the bone. Discard the 
onion quarters and garlic.
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. In a medium saucepan, cook 
the bacon and diced onion until the bacon fat is rendered and 
the onion is translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes 
and their juice, ketchup, molasses, Worcestershire sauce, 
Tabasco sauce, brown sugar, salt, black pepper, cayenne, and 
dry mustard. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until 
flavors are combined, about 5 minutes.
Add the sauce, reserved ham, and cooked pork, if using, to the 
beans and stir gently to combine. Moisten with some of the 
reserved bean cooking liquid and cover with aluminum foil. 
Bake, stirring occasionally, until the beans are soft but not fall -
ing apart, about 2 hours. Add additional bean cooking liquid, 
if needed, to keep the beans moist. Let stand for 10 minutes to 
thicken. Serve immediately.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
3 days. Reheat in a small saucepan over medium heat.)2¼ CUPS/455 G dried navy 
beans, picked over and rinsed
1 large yellow onion, half 
quartered, half diced
2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 small smoked ham hock
8 OZ/225 G bacon, diced
ONE 14.5- oz/415- g can diced 
tomatoes
½ CUP/120 G ketchup
3 TBSP  molasses
1 TBSP  Worcestershire sauce
1 TSP  Tabasco sauce
¼ CUP/50 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
1 TSP  kosher salt
¼ TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
¼ TSP  dry mustard
½ CUP/90 G diced cooked  
pork (optional)This is the only side dish at B-Side BBQ that isn’t vegetarian. To make up for that, I’ve 
included almost every part of the pig here except for the oink. I’ve made a meatless version, 
but frankly it’s not the same. Of course, you can omit anything you don’t care for and it will 
still taste great. This is one of several sides that could work as a meal. Slow cooking is the key 
to deep flavor.SERVES 6
BBQ BAKED  
BEANS102  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large bowl, cover the rice with 2 to 3 in/5 to 7.5 cm of cold 
water. Stir the rice with your hand and drain. Repeat five or six 
times, until the water runs clear.
Transfer the washed rice to a medium heavy-bottomed pot. Add 
enough fresh cold water to cover the rice by about 1 in/2.5 cm. 
Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook until the rice 
is tender, about 20 minutes. Do not overcook.
In a large sauté pan, heat the oil over medium-high heat until 
shimmering. Add the livers and sausage and cook, stirring 
occasionally and breaking up the sausage with the back of the 
spoon, until the meat is no longer pink, 7 to 8 minutes. With a 
slotted spoon, transfer the livers and sausage to a small bowl. 
Add the onion, green and red bell peppers, garlic, and jalapeño 
to the pan, and cook over medium-high heat until the vegeta -
bles are soft, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, chop the chicken livers into small dice. Return 
them to the sauté pan, along with the sausage, Worcestershire 
sauce, and the cooked rice. Stir until the rice is fully incorpo -
rated. Stir in the bay leaves, thyme, black pepper, salt, paprika, 
cayenne, and green onions. Partially cover the pan, reduce the 
heat to low, and cook until the flavors are well blended, about  
15 minutes. Remove bay leaves, discard, and serve immediately.1½ CUPS/310 G basmati rice
2 TBSP  vegetable oil
8 OZ/225 G chicken livers, 
trimmed
1 LB/445 G bulk pork sausage
1 white onion, finely chopped
1 green bell pepper, diced
1 red bell pepper, diced
1 TBSP  minced garlic
1 TBSP  chopped jalapeño chile
¼ CUP/60 ML Worcestershire 
sauce
2 bay leaves
1 TBSP  chopped fresh thyme
2 TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
1 TSP  kosher salt
½ TSP  sweet paprika
PINCH  of cayenne pepper
4 green onions, white and green 
parts, choppedI know what you’re thinking . . . why would anyone want to eat something “dirty?” This dish 
originally earned the “dirty” moniker from the crisp bits of chicken gizzards and giblets scat -
tered through the rice. We offer a vegetarian version at Brown Sugar Kitchen, but this orig -
inal recipe with all the fixings is my favorite. A bit like a rice stuffing, it’s spicy and filling 
enough for a meal, but also makes a great side dish for roast chicken or pork.SERVES 6 TO 8
DIRTY RICE  VEGETABLES & SIDES   103Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter a 2-qt/2-L baking dish.
In a large pot of boiling salted water, cook the macaroni until 
tender, 10 to 12 minutes. Drain.
In a large heavy-bottomed saucepan, melt 2 tbsp of the butter 
over medium heat. Stir in the flour, salt, Worcestershire sauce, 
garlic, and ginger until blended. Cook for 1 minute, without 
browning. Gradually pour in the cream and milk and whisk 
until combined. Cook, whisking constantly, until the sauce 
thickens slightly, about 10 minutes.
Remove saucepan from heat and stir in the Cheddar until 
melted. Stir in the white pepper and Tabasco sauce. Add the 
cooked macaroni and toss to coat. Transfer to the prepared 
baking dish.
In a small frying pan, melt the remaining 3 tbsp butter over 
medium heat. Add the bread crumbs and toss to coat. Sprinkle 
the bread crumbs over the macaroni. Bake until the sauce is 
bubbly and the crumbs are browned, about 25 minutes. Let rest 
for 10 minutes before serving.8 OZ/225 G elbow macaroni
5 TBSP/70 G unsalted butter, 
plus more for the pan
2 TBSP  all-purpose flour
½ TSP  kosher salt
½ TSP  Worcestershire sauce
½ TSP  chopped garlic
1/8 TSP  grated fresh ginger
¾ CUP/180 ML heavy cream
¾ CUP/180 ML whole milk
8 OZ/225 G sharp Cheddar 
cheese, grated
PINCH  of ground white pepper
DASH  of Tabasco sauce
1 CUP/55 G fresh bread crumbsLike politics and religion, macaroni and cheese is a topic sure to polarize any family gather -
ing. To bake or not to bake? One cheese or three? Bread crumbs or none? The list goes on. 
Obviously, I created this version to my taste, but as it’s one of the most popular sides I make, I 
think I’ve hit upon an exceptional version. I must thank my college roommates who ate mac -
aroni and cheese out of a box when we met. They inspired me to help them do better. Abs and 
El, this one’s for you!SERVES 6
MACARONI  &  
CHEESE  VEGETABLES & SIDES   105Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter a 1 1/2-qt/1.4-L baking 
or soufflé dish.
In a sauté pan, melt 2 tbsp of the butter over medium heat. Add 
the shallots and cook until softened, stirring occasionally, about  
3 minutes. Add the mushrooms and thyme, season with salt and 
pepper, and cook, stirring occasionally, until the mushrooms 
are cooked and any liquid has evaporated, about 8 minutes. 
Remove from the heat.
In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, heat the milk over medium-high 
heat until bubbles form around the edges. Slowly whisk in the 
cornmeal, reduce the heat to low, and cook, whisking con -
stantly, until the mixture thickens, about 10 minutes. Remove 
from the heat and stir in the remaining 2 tbsp butter and the 
Cheddar cheese. Add the egg yolks, one at a time, whisking to 
combine after each addition. 
In a medium bowl, whip the egg whites until medium-stiff 
peaks form—the tips of the peaks curl down slightly when the 
beaters are lifted. Gently fold the whipped egg whites into the 
batter. Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish.
Bake until the spoon bread is puffed and golden brown, about  
50 minutes. Serve immediately.4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter, 
plus more for the pan
3 shallots, minced
1 LB/455 G button mushrooms, 
sliced
1 TSP  fresh thyme
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
3 CUPS/720 ML whole milk
1 CUP/140 G cornmeal
2 OZ/55 G Cheddar cheese, 
grated
4 eggs, separatedSpoon bread is a lovely hybrid of a dish, claiming the middle ground between cornbread and 
soufflé. It’s also wonderfully versatile in that it can be eaten at breakfast, lunch, or dinner, 
either as a side dish or a main course. This is a great recipe for adventurous cooks. Try it 
with different varieties of mushrooms—creminis, portobellos, or even truffles if you’re feel -
ing flush. Each brings its distinct flavor to the dish.SERVES 6
HERBED  MUSHROOM  
SPOON  BREAD106  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Put a 12-in/30.5-cm cast-
iron skillet in the oven to preheat.
In a large bowl, whisk together the egg and buttermilk. In 
a medium bowl, mix together the flour, cornmeal, baking 
powder, baking soda, salt, and sugar. Add the flour mixture 
to the buttermilk mixture and mix with a wooden spoon; do 
not overmix. Stir in the melted butter. If using, gently fold the 
corn kernels into the batter until just combined.
Remove the skillet from the oven and add the 1 tbsp butter to 
the hot skillet. When the butter melts, brush it evenly over the 
bottom and sides of the skillet. Pour the batter into the skillet.
Bake until the cornbread is browned on the edges and a tooth -
pick stuck in the center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Let 
cool slightly. Serve warm.1 egg
1½ CUPS/360 ML buttermilk
1 CUP/125 G all-purpose flour
1 CUP/140 G cornmeal
4 TSP  baking powder
½ TSP  baking soda
2 TSP  kosher salt
1 TBSP  sugar
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter, 
melted, plus 1 TBSP  for 
the pan
¾ CUP/185 G cooked fresh corn 
kernels (optional)I grew up eating Jiffy cornbread, a boxed mix that required the addition of milk or water. I’m 
pretty sure my mother doctored it up with some melted butter too. Convenience was key 
for her and I can appreciate that. But at Brown Sugar Kitchen we don’t take shortcuts. My 
cornbread has customers swooning. I think it’s the balance of sweet and salty that makes it 
so popular. It’s also not quite cakey and not quite dense—its texture is just right. Try making 
this once, and hopefully this will be the last cornbread recipe you will ever need. Cornbread is 
best eaten fresh. Use any leftovers to make croutons (see page 116) or Buttermilk Cornbread 
Pudding (page 168).SERVES 8
BUTTERMILK  
CORNBREADMILDRED 
HOWARD
ARTIST AND CꝎK
Her artwork has been displayed at the De Young Museum,  
the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and shown  internationally in Berlin, Cairo, and at the Venice Biennial
Lives:  Berkeley, since 1948
Regular order:  Granola
I first discovered Tanya when I would watch her cooking 
show, Melting Pot “Soul Kitchen,” on the Food Network. 
I would think to myself, “She knows how to cook.” That’s what impressed me initially. And then I went to a party that she catered. The party was over and I looked in the kitchen and there she was. The next thing I know, she’s here in sweet West Oakland. I think it’s so fabulous for her to come into this community and make Southern cooking in a relatively healthy way. That’s what I like about it. She uses really good ingredi-ents. I like her presence too. Whenever you see the owner of a restaurant cooking you know things are right.
CHAPTER 4
SOUPS  & 
SANDWICHESAn outstanding sandwich makes me think of a (don’t laugh) gospel choir. When every-
one is singing their part, the magic occurs all around them. An oyster po’boy needs a roll that’s both soft and crusty, but you don’t want the oysters to get lost in the bread, so the roll can’t be too doughy. A dose of spicy coleslaw brings a needed bit of acid to the party, and an even schmear of aïoli brings all the ﬂavors into line while letting the oys-ters shine. It takes a practiced hand and an experienced palate to make these things happen. But when it works, there’s nothing better than a perfectly composed sandwich that’s just the right amount of ﬁlling, bread, and condiments.
In this chapter there are also a few dishes that I would consider for a ﬁrst course at a 
dinner party, like my riff on traditional French onion soup, where I use sweet Vidalia onions from Georgia and cornbread croutons rather than the country-style loaf called for in most recipes. I even take a Spanish gazpacho and give it a Creole ﬂavor. Some of the dishes here can make a meal, like my chili made from burnt ends of barbecued brisket. It’s also ideal potluck fare. Easy to transport and reheat, and everyone loves it.SOUPS  & SANDWICHES  113In a food processor, pulse together the tomatoes and their 
juices, the bell pepper, onion, cucumber, cilantro, parsley, olive 
oil, lemon juice, vinegar, 1/2 tsp salt, and the Creole Spice Mix 
until smooth. Transfer the gazpacho to a nonreactive container 
and refrigerate for at least for 4 hours or up to overnight.
Just before serving, season with salt, pepper, and hot pepper 
sauce. Serve cold, garnished with parsley.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 
3 days.)1 LB/455 G tomatoes, peeled, 
seeded, and diced, or ONE  
14½ -oz/415 -g can diced tomatoes
1 red bell pepper, seeded  
and diced
½ yellow onion, diced
1 cucumber, peeled, seeded,  
and diced
1 TBSP  chopped fresh cilantro
1 TBSP  chopped fresh parsley
1 TBSP  olive oil
Juice of 1 lemon
1½ TSP  red wine vinegar
Kosher salt
1½ TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
Freshly ground pepper
Hot pepper sauce
Parsley or chervil for garnishChilled gazpacho is a terrific way to enjoy an excess of summer tomatoes. Make a batch after 
a weekend trip to the farmers’ market and you’re set for a week’s worth of quick lunches. But 
you don’t have to save this for tomato season—you can substitute canned tomatoes and make 
it all year-round.SERVES 4 AS AN APPETIZER
CREOLE  
GAZPACHO114  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper.
Spread the onion and apples on one side of the baking sheet and 
drizzle with 1 tbsp of the olive oil. Place the squash halves on 
the other side of the baking sheet, cut-side u p. Dot the squash 
with the butter. Scatter the thyme sprigs over the vegetables. 
Slice the top third off the head of garlic. Drizzle the garlic 
with  1/2 tsp olive oil, wrap it in aluminum foil, and put it on the 
baking sheet with the squash. Roast, stirring the onion and 
apples every 15 minutes, until everything is very tender, 1 hour 
to 1 hour 15 minutes. If any of the ingredients become tender 
before the others, transfer them to a bowl and set aside until 
the remaining ingredients are finished roasting. Let cool for 
about 15 minutes. Discard the thyme sprigs.
In a large soup pot, heat the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil over 
medium heat until shimmering. Add the ginger, paprika, cin -
namon, and cayenne, and stir until they release their aromas, 
about 30 seconds. Remove from the heat.
Add the onion and apples to the pot. Scoop out the flesh of the 
squashes, and add to the pot, discarding the skins. Carefully 
squeeze the roasted garlic into the pot, discarding the papery 
skins. Add the salt and the stock. Bring to a simmer over 
medium heat, scraping any browned bits off the bottom of the 
pot. Simmer, stirring occasionally, for 15 minutes.1 large yellow onion, cut into 
chunks
2 tart apples, such as Granny 
Smith, cored, peeled, and 
quartered
2 TBSP  plus ½ TSP  olive oil
1 butternut squash, halved and 
seeded
1 acorn squash, halved and 
seeded
1 delicata squash, halved and 
seeded
2 TBSP  unsalted butter, cut into 
cubes, at room temperature
6 sprigs thyme
1 head garlic
1 TBSP  grated fresh ginger
1 TSP  sweet paprika
½ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
1 TSP  kosher salt
5 CUPS/1.2 L vegetable or 
chicken stock, plus more  
as needed
½ CUP/120 ML heavy cream
Freshly ground black  
pepperSince you can’t really buy half a squash, I’m suggesting you make a large pot of this soup and 
freeze whatever you can’t eat right away. Although, you might not find that necessary once 
you taste this soup, which is the ultimate comfort food. Just add a thick slice of toasted bread 
and a simple green salad, and dinner is ready.SERVES 8 TO 10
SPICED  
WINTER  SQUASH  
SOUPSOUPS  & SANDWICHES  115Remove the soup from the heat and let cool. In a food processor 
or using an immersion blender, purée the soup until smooth. 
Stir in the cream and season with salt and black pepper. Add 
more stock if needed to thin the soup to the desired consis -
tency. Over low heat, gently warm the soup, stirring occasion -
a lly. Ser ve immediately.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
3 days. Reheat in a soup pot over medium heat. Freeze for up to 
1 month.)116  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large pot, melt the butter over medium-high heat. Add the 
onions and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft and browned, 
about 20 minutes.
Add the sherry and stir until most of the liquid has evaporated. 
Add the stock, garlic, and thyme. Bring to a boil, then add the 
hot pepper sauce, salt, and pepper. Reduce to a simmer and cook 
for about 10 minutes.
To make the croutons:  Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. 
On a baking sheet, spread the cornbread in a single layer and 
drizzle with oil and sprinkle with salt. Bake, turning the crou -
tons over once or twice, until they are lightly browned, about  
15 minutes.
Turn off the oven, and preheat the broiler. Transfer the soup 
to six ovenproof crocks. Divide the croutons evenly among the 
crocks and sprinkle each crock with Gruyère. Place the crocks 
under the broiler until the Gruyère is bubbly and brown, about  
2 minutes. Serve immediately.2 TBSP  unsalted butter
2 LB/910 G Vidalia or other 
sweet onions, halved and 
thinly sliced
¼ CUP/60 ML dry sherry
6 CUPS/1.4 L chicken stock
3 garlic cloves
2 TSP  chopped fresh thyme
2 TSP  Tabasco or other hot 
pepper sauce
1 TSP  kosher salt
¼ TSP  freshly ground pepper
3¼ OZ/90 G Gruyère cheese, 
grated
CORNBREAD CROUTONS
3 OZ/85 G Buttermilk 
Cornbread (page 106), cut  
into 1-in/2.5-cm cubes
Olive oil for drizzling
Kosher saltA crunchy lid of cornbread croutons, a dash of hot sauce, and a base of sweet onions give 
this bistro classic a Southern soul. Vidalia onions are named for the region in Georgia where 
they originated, and they can be found in markets from late April through August. If they’re 
not available, look for another variety of sweet onion such as Maui or Walla Walla. The corn -
bread croutons add a wonderful flavor to the soup and can easily be made a day ahead.SERVES 6 AS AN APPETIZER
VIDALIA ONION SOUP 
WITH CORNBREAD CROUTONSSOUPS  & SANDWICHES  117In a large heavy-bottomed soup pot, heat the oil over medium 
heat until shimmering. Add the onion, bell pepper, jalapeño, 
and garlic and cook until the onion is tender and translucent, 
about 4 minutes. Add the ancho and New Mexico chile powders, 
cumin, garlic powder, 2 tsp salt, 1 tsp black pepper, cayenne, 
and bay leaf and cook, stirring occasionally, until the spices are 
warm and fragrant, about 2 minutes.
Add the stout, tomatoes and their juice, pinto beans, pork, 
ketchup, vinegar, Tabasco sauce, and stock. Bring to a boil, 
reduce to a simmer, and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 
90 minutes, until the flavors meld. Season with salt and pepper. 
Serve immediately.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
1 week. Reheat in a soup pot over medium heat.)2 TBSP  olive oil
1 large yellow onion, diced
1 red bell pepper, seeded  
and diced
1 TBSP  minced jalapeño chile
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 TBSP  ancho chile powder
1 TBSP  New Mexico chile 
powder
2 TSP  ground cumin
2 TSP  garlic powder
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
½ TSP  cayenne pepper
1 bay leaf
¾ CUP/180 ML stout
ONE 15- oz/430- g can crushed 
tomatoes
TWO 15- oz/430- g cans pinto 
beans, drained and rinsed
2 CUPS/360 G diced cooked  
pork or beef, or  1 LB/455 G 
ground beef, cooked and 
drained
¾ CUP/220 G ketchup
1/3 CUP/75 ML apple cider 
vinegar
½ TSP  Tabasco sauce
2½ CUPS/600 ML beef or 
chicken stockA meat lover’s chili to be sure, this was inspired by the scraps from our smoked meats. When 
serving ribs in the restaurant, we cut from the center and serve the customers the meatiest 
and prettiest ones, but there are always some drier ends that we scrape off the bone and 
reserve for this chili. The same is true for our sliced brisket; we serve the customer the moist 
center cuts and chop the end pieces to stew in the moist chili broth. Choosing a variety of 
leftover smoked or grilled meats, or even some cooked ground beef, will help make this chili 
recipe your own.SERVES 4 TO 6
BURNT ENDS  
CHILIERA AND DON 
FARNSWORTH
MAGNOLIA EDITIONS, FINE ART PRINTERS
Works:  West Oakland, since 1981
Regular order:  Gumbo
This is an amazingly creative area, full of artists and crafts-
people. There’s a blacksmith across the street from us. Dorothy Lenahan’s glass studio is here. Paul Discoe’s Japanese joinery shop is here. There’s even a samurai sword maker down the street. We were here when the earthquake happened in 1989. We ran out of the building and saw plumes of black smoke ris-ing. Cars were burning. And then we thought, “The view looks different.” It took a moment to register that the freeway was gone. We drove over to see if we could help take people to the hospital. Our neighbors brought ladders and forklifts to help pull people out of the rubble. 
Southern culture is part of the heritage of this neighborhood. 
The people who live here are very friendly. Strangers say hello to each other on the street. People who aren’t from West Oakland think it’s strange. Brown Sugar Kitchen is part of that culture, not just for its food, but also in the art and the environ-ment that has sprung up around it. It’s a gem for this neighbor-hood. If you want a vibrant community you need diversity, not just in the people, but in the crafts and the businesses as well. A focal point like Brown Sugar Kitchen is important to get people excited about the neighborhood.
STEPHEN 
RADEMAKER
GENERAL CONTRACTOR, HANDYMAN FOR BROWN SUGAR 
KITCHEN, STA/FF MEMBER AT KINETIC STEAM WORKS
Lives:  West Oakland, since 1994
Regular order:  Grits and eggs
Our shop is throw-a-rock, break-a-window close to Brown 
Sugar Kitchen. I started working for Tanya and Phil when a friend asked if I could help ﬁx their smoker. We’re a good match—I like to eat and they like to cook and be great hosts. And they’re very understanding of my needs as an oddball. When Brown Sugar Kitchen opened, it didn’t take long for there to be a line around the corner. There’s a longing for good food here, and Brown Sugar Kitchen helps ﬁll that need. The restaurant was a precursor to the Oakland food revolution. It’s amazing how many restaurants have opened here in the past few years. Brown Sugar Kitchen sent a message to other restaurateurs that they could succeed here.
TRACY HOBBS
STA/FF MEMBER AT KINETIC STEAM WORKS
Lives:  West Oakland, since 1995
Regular order:  Extra biscuits, please
Kinetic Steam Works is part of West Oakland’s industrial arts 
community that restores vintage steam engines for use in art performances. We consider ourselves steam dorks, not steam punks. It’s not a fashion show for us. We work with real steam. This is a real technology. We do real things.
120  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Roast the bell peppers over a gas flame or under a broiler until 
blackened on all sides, turning occasionally. Place the peppers 
in a small bowl and cover tightly with plastic wrap. Set aside 
for 30 minutes, until the skin is loosened from the peppers. Peel 
off the skin and trim the peppers, removing the core, seeds, and 
stems. Cut the peppers lengthwise into strips and reserve sev -
eral strips for the dressing.
To make the olive salad:  Roughly chop the pickled vege -
tables, green and black olives, roasted red pepper, pepperon -
cini pepper, capers, and garlic. (You can do this step in a food 
processor, but just give it a couple of pulses. It should be fairly 
coarse.)
In a medium bowl, combine the chopped vegetables, the olive 
oil, parsley, oregano, and basil. Season with salt and pepper. 
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 
1 month.)
Preheat the oven to 500°F/260°C. Line a baking sheet with alu -
minum foil or parchment paper.2 red bell peppers
OLIVE SALAD
3 TBSP  Pickled Vegetables 
(page 129)
1/3 CUP/40 G pitted green olives
3 TBSP  pitted black olives
1 TBSP  roasted red bell pepper
1 TBSP  pickled pepperoncini 
pepper
1½ TBSP  capers, rinsed
1 garlic clove, peeled
2½ TSP  extra-virgin olive oil
1¼ TSP  chopped fresh parsley
1¼ TSP  chopped fresh oregano
1¼ TSP  chopped fresh basil
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
1 large eggplant
2 medium zucchini
1 TBSP  olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
8 slices provolone cheese
4 soft white bread rolls, halvedThe legendary muffuletta served at Central Grocery is one of my favorite reasons to visit New 
Orleans. The market is an institution, and the sandwich is always consistent—my ultimate 
judgment of a great food establishment. The olive salad and layers of cured meats marry 
perfectly with the crusty Italian bread. It’s just the thing to line the stomach before or after 
several Sazeracs. I developed this vegetarian version for a catering client and realized it was 
a keeper.SERVES 4
VEGETARIAN 
MUFFULETTASOUPS  & SANDWICHES  121Trim the ends from the eggplant and zucchini and cut length -
wise into 1/2-in/12-mm slabs. Toss the eggplant and zucchini 
with the oil, and season with salt and pepper. Spread the egg -
plant and zucchini in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet. Roast for 10 minutes, until the undersides are lightly 
browned. Carefully turn over, and continue roasting until soft -
ened, about 10 minutes more.
Place 2 slices of provolone on the bottom of each roll. Top with 
bell pepper, eggplant, and zucchini. Place a heaping spoonful of 
olive salad on top of the roasted vegetables, and cover with the 
top of the roll. Serve immediately. 
(To make ahead, cover tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate 
overnight.)SOUPS  & SANDWICHES  123Prepare a gas or charcoal grill for indirect cooking over medium 
heat. Lightly oil the grill grates. If using a charcoal grill, set a 
drip pan in the center of the bottom of the grill and arrange the 
hot coals around it. (If using a gas grill, preheat the grill with 
burners on high.) Season the pork with salt and pepper. Set the 
pork, fat-side up, on the grate. (If using a gas grill, turn off the 
burner directly under the grill, and reduce the other burners to 
medium heat.) Cover the grill and cook until the meat reaches 
an internal temperature of 150°F/65°C, 4 to 6 hours.
To make the sauce:  In a medium saucepan, melt the but -
ter over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic, and cook 
until the onion is tender and translucent, about 5 minutes. 
Add the vinegar, water, dry mustard, mustard seeds, cayenne, 
Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice, honey, red pepper flakes, 
turmeric, garlic powder, salt, and pepper. Bring to a boil, 
reduce to a simmer, and cook until thick and flavorful, about 
45 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Allow the cooked pork roast 
to rest for 15 minutes, then pull it apart with two forks, discard -
ing bones, fat, and skin. Transfer pork to a large ovenproof bak -
ing dish. Add the sauce and toss until the pork is evenly coated. 
Cover with aluminum foil and bake until the shredded pork is 
hot, about 30 minutes.
Place the pork on the hamburger buns and top with 1/3 cup/40 g 
of coleslaw per sandwich. Serve immediately.5 TO 7 LB/2.3 TO 3.2 KG  bone-in 
pork shoulder roast
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
BARBECUE SAUCE
1 TBSP  unsalted butter
1 large white onion, chopped
6 garlic cloves, minced
¾ CUP/180 ML apple cider 
vinegar
¾ CUP/180 ML water
2 TSP  dry mustard
1 TBSP  yellow mustard seeds
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
1½ TSP  Worcestershire sauce
Juice of 1 lemon
1½ TSP  honey
1½ TSP  red pepper flakes
¼ TSP  turmeric
¼ TSP  garlic powder
1 TSP  kosher salt
½ TSP  freshly ground  
black pepper
10 TO 12  French rolls or 
hamburger buns
1 RECIPE Spicy Green Coleslaw 
(page 82)What do you expect of your pulled pork? Is it chopped? Is your sauce vinegar-based or 
tomato-based? Is your roll soft or crusty? Well, I love it all. For my restaurants, I couldn’t 
decide and didn’t really want the customers to have to decide. So we offer a variety at B-Side, 
but for Brown Sugar Kitchen, we always serve pulled pork with a traditional tomato-based 
sauce. It’s a little spicy, a little sweet, and another favorite when you need a break from 
chicken and waffles.SERVES 10 TO 12
BBQ 
PULLED-PORK 
SANDWICHSOUPS  & SANDWICHES  125Put the oysters in a small bowl and cover with the buttermilk.
In a large cast-iron frying pan, add oil to a depth of 1 in/2.5 cm. 
Heat the oil over medium heat until it reaches 350°F/180°C 
on an instant-read thermometer. The oil should be hot but not 
smoking. Line a rimmed baking sheet with paper towels and set 
a wire rack on top.
In a shallow dish, combine the cornmeal, flour, and Creole 
Spice Mix. Using a slotted spoon and letting any excess butter -
milk drip back into the bowl, transfer the oysters to the corn -
meal mixture. Toss the oysters in the cornmeal mixture until 
they are well coated.
Fry the oysters, a few at a time, taking care not to crowd the 
pan, turning once, until golden, about 3 minutes. Transfer to 
the rack over the baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining 
oysters.
Fill each roll with about 1/2 cup/60 g slaw, top with 5 hot oysters, 
and a dollop of mayonnaise, if desired. Serve immediately.20 shucked oysters from a jar, 
drained and rinsed
1 CUP/240 ML buttermilk
Canola or rice bran oil for 
frying
1 CUP/140 G cornmeal
1 CUP/125 G all-purpose flour
2 TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
4 soft French rolls, split, 
toasted, and buttered
2 CUPS/240 G Spicy Green 
Coleslaw (page 82)
Mayonnaise for dolloping 
(optional)How do you fry oysters so that they’re crisp on the outside yet still juicy? It all comes down to 
the temperature of the oil. Fry at too low a temperature, and your oysters will be soggy and 
greasy; too high and they will be burnt and dry. Invest in a deep-fry thermometer and make 
sure your oil is heated to 350°F/180°C. Use a high-quality neutral oil, such as canola or rice 
bran, and a heavy-bottomed pot. Don’t be intimidated by frying. It can be safe and clean if 
you take your time and pay attention. There are many variations of hot and cold po’boys in 
New Orleans, but the common thread is the bread, usually a soft French roll. We use one 
from a local baker that’s slightly wider than a hot dog bun. It’s the perfect foil for the good -
ness that’s inside.SERVES 4
FRIED OYSTER  
PO’BOY126  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large stockpot, combine the salt and water and bring to a 
boil over high heat. Add the lobsters, cover, and bring the water 
to a boil again. Reduce the heat to low and cook until shells are 
deep red, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer the lobsters to a rimmed 
baking sheet and let cool. When cool enough to handle, crack 
the lobster shell and remove the meat from the claws and the tail.
In a medium bowl, combine the lobster meat and green onions. 
Stir in the lime aïoli.
Preheat the broiler and position an oven rack at least 6 in/15 cm 
below the broiler element. Spread the inside of the buns with 
the butter, place the buns on a baking sheet, and broil until 
golden brown, about 3 minutes. Fill each bun with one-quarter 
of the lobster mixture. Serve immediately.¼ CUP/50 G  kosher salt
8 CUPS/2 L water
TWO 1¼- lb/570- g live lobsters
3 green onions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
3 TBSP  Spicy Lime Aïoli  
(facing page)
4 good-quality hot dog buns, 
split
2 TBSP  unsalted butter, at room 
temperatureFor me, summer isn’t complete without eating a lobster roll or two, a tradition that started 
during my first summer cooking job on Martha’s Vineyard. It doesn’t take much, just some 
lobster and a little homemade mayonnaise. Here, I bring a little island flavor to the New 
England classic with a spicy lime aïoli that includes a bit of curry spice and jalapeño chile. 
Pour a glass of champagne, and you’ve got a party! This is one of my favorite meals to enjoy 
with my hubby.SERVES 4
CARIBBEAN  
LOBSTER ROLLSOUPS  & SANDWICHES  127MAKES 3/4 CUP/170 G
SPICY LIME AÏOLI
In a blender or food processor, combine the egg yolk, garlic, lime 
juice, and lime zest and process until smooth. In a liquid mea -
suring cup, combine the canola and olive oils. With the blender 
running, slowly drizzle in the oils until completely combined, 
about 2 minutes.
Scrape the aïoli into a small bowl. Stir in the jalapeño, curry 
powder, turmeric, cinnamon, cayenne, salt, black pepper, and 
cilantro. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container 
for up to 4 days.)1 egg yolk
1 garlic clove, minced
1 TSP  fresh lime juice
Zest from ½ lime
½ CUP/120 ML canola oil
2 TBSP  extra-virgin olive oil
1 TSP  minced jalapeño chile
1 TSP  curry powder
¼ TSP  turmeric
¼ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
¼ TSP  kosher salt
1/8 TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
1 TSP  minced fresh cilantro128  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large pot of salted, boiling water, cook the shrimp until 
opaque, about 2 minutes. Drain and let cool. Peel the shrimp 
and remove the dark vein that runs down the back.
In a large bowl, combine the oil, lemon juice, coriander seeds, 
celery seeds, mustard seeds, chiles, peppercorns, bay leaves, 
garlic, lemon slices, and onion and toss until combined. Trans -
fer to a large lidded glass jar or other nonreactive container, 
cover, and refrigerate at least 6 hours or up to 1 week.
Bring to room temperature, drain, and arrange on a serving 
platter. Serve with toothpicks.1 LB/455 G medium shrimp
1 CUP/240 ML olive oil
1/3 CUP/75 ML fresh lemon juice, 
plus 1 lemon, unpeeled and 
thinly sliced
1 TSP  coriander seeds
1 TSP  celery seeds
1 TSP  yellow mustard seeds
2 dried chiles de árbol
2 TSP  peppercorns
2 bay leaves
2 garlic cloves, peeled
½ small red onion, thinly slicedThere’s an art to finding just the right appetizer. I’m always on the lookout for something with 
a sharpness that will spike an appetite, but it can’t be too filling. I won’t bother with a dish 
that’s too fussy, and it's all the better if I can make it a day or two before a party. These briny, 
slightly spicy pickled shrimp win on all counts. I like to put them out with a platter of fresh 
radishes with salt and butter, crackers, and plenty of napkins.SERVES 4 TO 6 AS AN APPETIZER
PICKLED SHRIMP 
CRUDITÉSOUPS  & SANDWICHES  129Layer the cauliflower, carrots, radishes, onion, and jalapeños in 
a clean 1-qt/960-ml glass jar with a tight-fitting lid. (You can 
substitute several smaller jars or a glass bowl.)
In a large saucepan, combine the vinegar, water, coriander 
seeds, peppercorns, bay leaves, sugar, salt, garlic, and cloves 
and bring to a boil. Stir occasionally, until the sugar and salt 
dissolve. Remove from the heat and add the red pepper flakes. 
Pour the liquid over the vegetables.
Cover and refrigerate overnight. Drain and serve at room 
temperature. 
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container for up to 1 month.)1 CUP/120 G cauliflower florets
2 large carrots, peeled, cut into 
¼-in/6-mm slices
12 radishes, cut into ¼-in/6-mm 
slices
1 small red onion, cut into 
¼-in/6-mm slices
2 jalapeño chiles, coarsely 
chopped
1½ CUPS/360 ML apple cider 
vinegar
1½ CUPS/360 ML water
1 TBSP  coriander seeds
2 TSP  peppercorns
2 bay leaves
¾ CUP/150 G sugar
1 TBSP  kosher salt
2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 TSP  cloves
1½ TSP  red pepper flakesPickles don’t have to be a big project. It takes just a few minutes to make the brine and assem -
ble the vegetables for this quick recipe; there’s no canning required. Simply put them in a jar in 
the refrigerator and they’ll keep for up to a month. They’re an essential part of my Vegetarian 
Muffuletta (page 120), and in fact, they go with just about any sandwich. Sometimes I’ll put a 
few in a bowl to serve with cocktails and a plate of sliced salami.MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS/450 G
PICKLED  
VEGETABLESTHE WEST OAKLAND 
INDUSTRIAL ARTS CORRIDOR
Forklifts and 18-wheelers are as common as cars in 
West Oakland and it’s easy to get the sense that the enormous concrete warehouses here are mere way stations for goods coming in and out of port. What isn’t immediately noticeable is that behind the graffiti-strewn walls are dozens of art collectives and studios, and that West Oakland stands as one of the most important centers for industrial arts in the nation. The massive buildings—many are large enough to hold a crane—offer the kind of space artists need to create large-scale installations and sculptures.
American Steel Studios:  The two adjacent ware-
houses here occupy 6 acres and are home to dozens 
of artists who make everything from 30-foot-high sculptures that weigh close to 30 tons to high-end soap. Fashion designers, glassblowers, ﬁre dancers, and stone carvers share this space that was founded by sculptor Karen Cusolito in 2004.
The Crucible: Imagine a high school shop class 
gone to Burning Man (in fact many of the artists 
here head to that festival in Nevada every Labor Day weekend). The Crucible bills itself as an arts education center and offers youth and adult classes in welding, glassblowing, blacksmithing, wood-working, and how to turn a bike into a chariot.
Kinetic Steam Works: You never know what you 
might see in West Oakland, like maybe a steam 
engine rolling down the street. That would be Hortense , a project of Kinetic Steam Works, an arts 
organization dedicated to promoting steam-powered technologies, such as a steam-powered printing press, a pumpkin guillotine, and a steamboat the group christened Wilhelmina .St. Louise Studios:  Jeremy Crandell, one of 
Brown Sugar Kitchen's most devoted customers, 
comes from tech but identiﬁes himself as an arts enabler. In 2007 he founded this studio for indus-trial artists. With individual studios as well as a shared work ﬂoor, innovators have access to the space and tools needed to realize and create large-scale art.
Five- Ton Crane:  A retro-futuristic Raygun Gothic  
Rocketship, an 11,000-pound land-based submarine,  
a steam-powered treehouse, and a giant hamster wheel for humans designed to run on train tracks are just a few of the projects from this West Oakland– based artist collective.CHAPTER 5
LARGE PLATES  
& BIG BOWLSWe don’t serve dinner at Brown Sugar Kitchen. Our doors close at 3 P.M., so lunch is  
our big meal of the day. During the week we stop making eggs and serving bacon and sausage around 11:30 and roll out the gumbo, catﬁsh, and baby back ribs.
The mood of the restaurant changes, too, once the breakfast rush ends. People are more 
awake and ready for conversation. The decibel level rises and appetites are bigger. We’re more lively in the kitchen, as well.
The line has become a well-oiled machine thanks to devoted cooks and kitchen man -
agers. Some customers ask why we don’t smile more when we cook, but getting the food out quickly and doing it well requires a lot of focus. You will ﬁnd us smiling at the end of the day, when we learn that we served 402 meals in 8 hours, in our little restaurant with just 50 seats, 6 burners, a 3-foot/0.9-metre griddle, and 3 waffle makers. It’s truly the little restaurant that could.
Everything at Brown Sugar Kitchen is cooked to order, à la minute , as my cooking teach-
ers in France used to say. The only canned items we stock are pineapple juice, plum tomatoes, and evaporated milk. Everything else is made from the raw, fresh state. I think it's hard for people to imagine all of that fresh food coming out of our tiny kitchen; you’d be surprised at how many people are used to food that sits under heat lamps for a long time before it gets to their table. In my kitchen, each piece of fried chicken we serve is juicy and crisp because it just ﬁnished cooking. Our highly skilled cooks work efficiently to make each dish to order, but make no mistake, this is slow food.LARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   137In a large bowl, combine the parsley, tarragon, onion powder, 
paprika, 2 tsp salt, garlic powder, cayenne, 1 tsp black pepper, 
oregano, and thyme. Add the chicken pieces and toss to coat. 
Pour in the buttermilk, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and 
refrigerate at least 8 hours or up to overnight.
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. In a large cast-iron frying pan,  
add oil to a depth of3/4 in/2 cm and heat the oil to 350°F/180°C 
over medium heat until hot but not smoking. Line a rimmed  
baking sheet with paper towels and set a wire rack on top.
In a large wide bowl, combine the flour, 1 tbsp salt, and 1 tbsp 
black pepper. One piece at a time and letting any excess butter -
milk drip back into the bowl, transfer the chicken to the flour 
mixture. Dredge the chicken in the flour mixture, shaking off  
the excess.
Fry the chicken, a few pieces at a time, taking care not to crowd 
the pan and turning occasionally, until crisp and browned, 5 to  
7 minutes. Transfer to the rack over the baking sheet to con -
tinue cooking in the oven until the internal temperature regis -
ters 165°F/75°C, about 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and 
allow to rest for 5 to 10 minutes. Repeat with the remaining 
chicken. Serve immediately.2 TBSP  minced fresh parsley
1 TBSP  dried tarragon
1 TBSP  onion powder
1 TBSP  sweet paprika
2 TSP kosher salt, plus  1 TBSP
2 TSP  garlic powder
1 TSP  cayenne pepper
1 TSP freshly ground black 
pepper, plus  1 TBSP
1 TSP  dried oregano
1 TSP  dried thyme
3½ LB/1.6 KG  chicken, cut  
into 8 pieces
1 CUP/240 ML buttermilk
Canola or rice bran oil  
for deep-frying
1½ CUPS/185 G all-purpose  
flourWhen I was growing up, my mother fried chicken at least three times a week. She cooked it 
in a cast-iron skillet and always used vegetable shortening. The seasoned flour went into a 
paper bag. She’d drop the chicken pieces in and give them a good shake before frying. I took 
her fried chicken for granted, assuming it was what everyone was eating. Only later did I 
learn most of my friends only knew fried chicken as fast food. Years later, when I was working 
at a restaurant in Manhattan, I discovered a buttermilk-soaked version of fried chicken that 
rocked my world. That’s the way I’ve made it ever since. The buttermilk bath serves as a ten -
derizing brine that makes the chicken extra moist and flavorful. You’ll notice that I cook the 
chicken just until crisp in the frying pan and then transfer it to the oven to finish cooking. The 
skin stays crisp and I know for certain that the meat is cooked through all the way to the bone.SERVES 4 TO 6
BUTTERMILK  
FRIED CHICKEN138  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
To make the jerk marinade:  In a medium bowl, combine 
the onion, soy sauce, oil, vinegar, water, and jalapeño. (To make 
ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 3 days.)
To make the habanero vinegar:  In a food processor, com -
bine the habanero chile and vinegar and purée until smooth. 
Pour into a small bowl. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an air -
tight container for up to 1 month.)
To make the pineapple glaze:  In a small saucepan, com -
bine the pineapple juice and brown sugar. Bring to a boil over 
medium heat and cook until sauce is thick and reduced to about 
one-third, about 15 minutes. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an 
airtight container for up to 3 days.)
To make the pineapple salsa:  In a medium bowl, combine 
the pineapple, onion, jalapeños, bell pepper, cilantro, oil, and 
lime juice. Season with salt. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an 
airtight container for up to 8 hours.)
To make the jerk spice rub:  In a small bowl, combine  
the garlic powder, onion powder, allspice, salt, nutmeg, chile 
powder, cinnamon, cayenne, and black pepper. (To make ahead, 
store in a cool, dark place for up to 1 month.)
CONTINUEDJERK MARINADE
1 large red onion, cut into 
¼-in/ 6-mm slices
¾ CUP/180 ML soy sauce
¾ CUP/180 ML vegetable oil
½ CUP/120 ML apple cider 
vinegar
½ CUP/120 ML water
1 jalapeño chile, sliced
HABANERO VINEGAR
½ habanero chile, stemmed and 
seeded
1/3 CUP/80 ML white wine 
vinegar
PINEAPPLE GLAZE
TWO 6 -oz/180- ml cans 
pineapple juice
¼ CUP/50 G firmly packed 
brown sugarThe first time I worked with jerk spices was in the late ’90s, when I was the chef at a Caribbean-
influenced restaurant in New York City’s East Village. I think I first used it on chicken and  
then I started trying it on seafood, pork, and just about anything, as they do in Jamaica. I love the  
notes of cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice, sweet warming spices that most Americans don’t 
expect to find in their savory foods. The key to flavorful ribs is marinating them for at least  
24 hours and cooking them slowly while continuing to baste them. As my father says, “You’d 
be a jerk not to love them.”SERVES 4 TO 6
JERK  BABY BACK RIBS  
WITH PINEAPPLE  
SALSA140  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Use a butter knife to pry the membrane off the bone side of the 
ribs. Once you get a piece of the membrane loose, grab it with 
a paper towel and pull it toward the other end of the slab to 
remove it. Rub the Jerk Spice Rub evenly over the ribs. Arrange 
the ribs in a 15-by-10-in/38-by-25-cm baking pan. Pour the 
Jerk Marinade over the ribs, turning to coat both sides. Cover 
the baking pan with aluminum foil and refrigerate for at least  
6 hours or up to 24 hours.
Remove the ribs from the marinade, letting the excess drip off. 
Transfer the ribs to a baking sheet and allow to come to room 
temperature, about 30 minutes. Brush with the Habanero 
Vinegar. 
To cook ribs using a charcoal grill: Prepare the grill for indirect 
cooking over medium heat. Place a shallow metal pan filled 
with water in the center of the grill and arrange the hot coals 
around it. Lightly oil the grill grates. Place the ribs on the grate 
directly above the water-filled pan, cover the grill, and cook 
until tender, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Add coals as needed to maintain 
medium heat.PINEAPPLE SALSA
½ pineapple, diced
1 small red onion, diced
3 small jalapeño chiles, diced
1/3 CUP/55 G diced red bell 
pepper
1/3 CUP/8 G chopped fresh 
cilantro
2 TBSP  canola oil
Juice of 1 lime
Kosher salt
JERK SPICE RUB
2 TBSP  garlic powder
2 TBSP  onion powder
1 TBSP  ground allspice
1 TBSP  kosher salt
2 TSP  grated nutmeg
2 TSP  cascabel or ancho chile 
powder
2 TSP  ground cinnamon
2 TSP  ground cayenne pepper
1 TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
TWO 2- lb/910- g racks baby back 
ribsLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   141To cook ribs using a gas grill:  Preheat the grill with all the burners 
on high. Lightly oil the grill grates. Place the ribs on the grate, 
turn off the burner directly under the ribs, and reduce the other 
burners to medium heat. Cover the grill and cook until tender, 
1 1/2 to 2 hours. 
After 45 minutes, brush the ribs with some of the Pineapple 
Glaze, and brush them two or three times before serving.  
Do not flip the ribs during cooking. When the ribs are done,  
they will be well browned and the meat will have shrunk back 
from the ends of the bones. Transfer the ribs to a cutting board 
and let stand for 5 minutes before cutting each rack into indi -
vidual ribs.
Serve warm with the Pineapple Salsa.142  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENIn a bowl or roasting pan large enough to hold the ribs, combine 
the garlic, ginger, jalapeños, oil, and soy sauce. Add the ribs and 
toss well to coat. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refriger -
ate for at least 6 hours or up to 24 hours.
Preheat the oven to 325°F/165°C. Remove the ribs from their 
marinade, letting the excess drip off, and use a fork or your 
fingers to pick out the jalapeño slices from the marinade to 
reserve. Transfer the ribs to a large plate or baking sheet, and 
allow to come to room temperature, about 30 minutes.
Rub the ras el hanout evenly over the ribs. Place the ribs in a 
Dutch oven large enough to hold them and the stock without 
overflowing. Add the stock, onions, celery, carrots, apricots, 
mirin, harissa, and the chiles reserved from the marinade. 
Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook until the 
ribs are quite tender and the meat pulls easily from the bone, 
about 2 1/2 hours. Serve immediately.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the ribs in their braising liquid for 
up to 5 days. Reheat gently in a 325°F/165°C oven or on top of 
the stove over low heat.)2 TBSP  minced garlic
1 TBSP  grated fresh ginger
2 jalapeño chiles, sliced
¾ CUP/180 ML canola oil
½ CUP/120 ML soy sauce
5 LB/2.3 KG  beef short ribs, cut 
into 2-in/5-cm pieces
Ras el Hanout (facing page)
6 CUPS/1.4 L chicken stock
2 yellow onions, cut into large 
dice
3 stalks celery, cut into  
large dice
3 large carrots, peeled and cut 
into large dice
½ CUP/65 G dried apricots
¼ CUP/60 ML mirin
2 TBSP  Green Harissa (page 96) 
or store-bought harissaI was introduced to ras el hanout  when I worked at a French bistro in Boston. Like me, the 
chef there had spent some time in the south of France, and he couldn’t ignore the influence 
of North African flavors in French cuisine. Just across the Mediterranean Sea from the 
Moroccan, Algerian, and Tunisian borders, the south of France is filled with expatriates from 
these countries. And they bring their flavors with them. I was seduced by a complex combi -
nation of spices—allspice, cumin, cardamom, cloves, turmeric, and more. It was like nothing I 
ever tasted before. It reminds me of an East Indian curry, in that every household has its own 
recipe. The flavors are bold enough to stands up to the richness of a thick-cut braised meat. 
Keep consistent with the Moroccan theme and serve these with warm couscous.SERVES 8
NORTH AFRICAN  
SPICED BEEF  
SHORT  RIBSLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   143MAKES ABOUT 2 TBSP
RAS EL HANOUT
In an electric spice or coffee grinder or with a mortar and pes -
tle, grind or crush the allspice, cumin, peppercorns, cardamom, 
cayenne, cinnamon, cloves, coriander seeds, ginger, mace, nut -
meg, turmeric, thyme, and bay leaf. (To make ahead, store in an 
airtight container for up to 1 month.)½ TSP  whole allspice
½ TSP  cumin seeds
1 TSP  peppercorns
½ TSP  ground cardamom
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
½ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  ground cloves
¾ TSP  toasted coriander seeds 
(see page 75)
¼ TSP  ground ginger
¼ TSP  ground mace
¼ TSP  grated nutmeg
¾ TSP  turmeric
¼ TSP  dried thyme
1 bay leaf144  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENTo make the blackening spice:  In a small bowl, combine 
the salt, paprika, onion powder, garlic powder, black pepper, 
oregano, and thyme.
Rub the spice mixture evenly over the steaks.
In a cast-iron skillet or sauté pan, heat the oil over medi -
um-high heat until shimmering. Add the steaks and cook to 
desired doneness, about 3 minutes per side, or until a meat 
thermometer stuck into the center of the steaks reaches 
120°F/48°C for rare, or 130°F/55°C for medium-rare. Transfer 
the steaks to a serving plate and cover with aluminum foil.
Add the sherry and stock to the skillet and bring to a boil, 
scraping any browned bits off the bottom of the pan. Stir in the 
cream and any collected juices from the serving plate, reduce 
to a simmer, and cook until thickened. Spoon sauce over the 
steaks. Serve immediately.BLACKENING SPICE
1 TSP  kosher salt
1 TSP  sweet paprika
1 TSP  onion powder
¾ TSP  garlic powder
½ TSP  freshly ground pepper
½ TSP  dried oregano
½ TSP  dried thyme
TWO 12- oz/340- g rib-eye steaks, 
cut in half
1 TBSP  canola oil
¼ CUP/60 ML sherry
¼ CUP/60 ML beef or chicken 
stock
¼ CUP/60 ML heavy creamWhen I was first taking cooking classes in the late ’80s, I was the best student I’d ever been. 
I couldn’t get enough of food—tasting it, reading about it, discovering new combinations of 
flavors and ingredients. And I particularly loved learning new cooking techniques. The sear -
ing, deglazing, and reducing required to make a proper steak au poivre was one that I loved 
to practice. My favorite cut of steak for this recipe is a boneless rib-eye, but tenderloin and 
New York strip also work well.SERVES 4
BLACKENED STEAK  
AU POIVRELARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   145Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
In a large bowl, use your hands to gently combine the beef, 
Creole Spice Mix, eggs, bread crumbs, onion, garlic, and 
ketchup, taking care not to overwork the meat. Shape into an 
oblong loaf about 9 in/23 cm long and 5 in/12 cm wide. Place in 
a large roasting pan.
To make the glaze:  In a small bowl, combine the herbes de 
Provence and the ketchup. Brush the meatloaf with half of the 
glaze.
Bake for 30 minutes, then coat with the remaining glaze. 
Continue baking until a meat thermometer stuck into the center 
of the meatloaf registers 160°F/70°C, 20 to 30 minutes more.
Allow the meatloaf to rest for 10 minutes before slicing.  
Serve warm.
(To make ahead, cover the cooked meatloaf with plastic wrap 
or aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 3 days. Reheat in a 
325°F/165°C oven until warmed through.)2½ LB/1.2 KG  lean ground beef
¼ CUP/35 G Creole Spice Mix 
(page 51)
3 eggs, beaten
1 CUP/55 G fresh bread crumbs
1 large yellow onion, diced
4 garlic cloves, minced
¾ CUP/220 G ketchup
GLAZE
1 TBSP  herbes de Provence
½ CUP/150 G ketchupLet’s face it, meatloaf is a good thing. And when it’s seasoned with a blend of herbes de 
Provence, cumin, and cayenne like this one, it’s even better than you remember. Just ask 
Greg “call me if you’re serving meatloaf,” one of this dish’s most avid fans. If you’re used to 
meatloaf in a loaf pan, I urge you to try this free-form method, which allows a delicious crust 
to develop on the sides as well as the top. Any leftover meatloaf makes a terrific sandwich; I 
like mine with Spicy Green Coleslaw (page 82) and Pickled Vegetables (page 129).SERVES 6
CREOLE  
MEATLOAFLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   147Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C. Cut the garlic in half width -
wise and put both halves on a sheet of aluminum foil. Drizzle 
with the olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Wrap tightly 
in the foil and roast until the garlic is tender, about 1 hour.
In a heavy-bottomed pot, heat the 1 cup/240 ml vegetable oil 
over medium-high heat until very hot and almost smoking. Add 
the flour and cook, stirring constantly, until the roux is a deep 
caramel color, about 5 minutes. Set aside.
In a large soup pot, heat the remaining 1 tbsp oil over medium-low 
heat. Add the celery, bell pepper, and onion and cook until 
the vegetables are quite soft, about 20 minutes. Squeeze the 
roasted garlic cloves out of their skins and add to the pot, along 
with the stock. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and whisk 
in the roux. Cook until the gumbo base begins to thicken, about 
10 minutes. Stir in the Creole Spice Mix and the gumbo filé 
powder. Add the okra and cook until the okra is tender, about 
10 minutes. Add the chicken and the shrimp and cook just until 
the shrimp is opaque in the center, about 5 minutes. Taste and 
season with salt and pepper.
Serve immediately over rice, if desired.
(To make ahead, refrigerate the gumbo in an airtight container 
for up to 3 days. Reheat in a saucepan over medium heat.)1 head garlic
½ TSP  olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepper
1 CUP/240 ML vegetable oil, plus  
1 TBSP
1 CUP/125 G all-purpose flour
2 stalks celery, diced
1 green bell pepper, diced
1 large yellow onion, diced
8 CUPS/2 L chicken stock
1½ TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
1½ TSP  gumbo filé powder
1 LB/455 G okra, trimmed  
and cut into ½-in/12-mm rounds
2 LB/910 G cooked chicken, 
shredded
2 LB/910 G medium shrimp, 
peeled and deveined
Cooked rice for serving 
(optional)My mother and her three sisters all grew up in the same household in Louisiana, but 
they all cook different versions of gumbo. I make a version slightly different from the 
one my mom makes, a tomato and okra combination with lots of shrimp and chicken.  
I leave out the tomatoes and add a dark roux like my aunt Maxine. She prefers a dark 
roux to cradle the oysters that she loves so much. Aunt Essie still lives in Shreveport and 
takes advantage of she-crab when it’s in season. And then there’s my aunt Martha Ray, 
who frankly doesn’t cook much but loves to eat gumbo no matter who makes it.SERVES 6 TO 8
SHRIMP  & CHICKEN 
GUMBO148  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large heavy-bottomed pot, heat the oil over medium-high 
heat until shimmering. Add the onions, leeks, garlic, celery,  
fennel, carrots, and Roma tomatoes and cook, stirring occa -
sionally, until softened, about 15 minutes. Stir in the tomato 
paste, wine, stock, water, cumin, cayenne, paprika, thyme,  
marjoram,  1 1/2 tsp salt, and 1 tsp black pepper. Bring to a boil, 
reduce to a simmer, and cook until the vegetables are quite soft, 
about 30 minutes Add the cod and continue simmering until 
the fish falls apart, about 15 minutes.
If using an immersion blender, turn off the heat and process the 
soup until well combined but still chunky. If using a standing 
blender or food processor, let the broth cool slightly and blend 
on medium speed until well combined but still chunky. Return 
the liquid to the stockpot.2 TBSP  canola oil
2 medium yellow onions, diced
2 leeks, white parts only, 
washed and diced
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 stalks celery, diced
1 fennel bulb, diced
2 carrots, peeled and diced
6 Roma tomatoes, chopped
1 TBSP  tomato paste
1 CUP/240 ML dry white wine
8 CUPS/2 L chicken stock
4 CUPS/960 ML water
¾ TSP  ground cumin
½ TSP  cayenne pepper
½ TSP  smoked paprika
¼ TSP  dried thyme
¼ TSP  dried marjoram
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
1 LB/455 G  Atlantic cod fillet
3 bay leaves
8 OZ/225 G  new potatoes, 
quartered
12 clams or mussels (or both)My first job after cooking school was an unpaid stage  at a Michelin-starred restaurant in a 
Relais Chateaux resort hotel on the island of Porquerolles. Just off the coast near St. Tropez, 
this region is considered part of Provence, my favorite area of France. It was like a dream: 
black sand on one side, white sand on the other—not to mention the delicious seafood. That’s 
when I learned there’s nothing quite like a chilled Provençal rosé on a hot summer day. And 
it’s a perfect match for bayoubaisse—my Creole-inspired riff on the famous bouillabaisse, a 
seafood stew that’s synonymous with the south of France.SERVES 6
BAYOUBAISSELARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   149Increase the heat to medium, add the bay leaves and potatoes, 
and simmer until the potatoes are tender, about 20 minutes. 
Add the clams and cook until they open, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the 
striped bass, shrimp, and cherry tomatoes and cook just until 
the shrimp is opaque, about 3 minutes. Season with salt and 
pepper.
Garnish with the sourdough toast and chopped fresh herbs. 
Serve immediately.1½ LB/680 G striped bass or 
red snapper, cut into 2-in/5-cm 
pieces
12 medium shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
1 CUP/150 G cherry or grape 
tomatoes, halved
4 OZ/115 G sourdough baguette, 
cut into 6 slices and toasted
Chopped fresh herbs, such as 
chives, parsley, and fennel 
fronds, for garnishLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   151In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the rice with the water. 
Cook, uncovered, over high heat until steam holes appear on the 
surface of the rice. Reduce the heat to very low, cover the pan, 
and cook for 15 minutes. Remove from the heat and let stand, 
covered, for 5 minutes. Add the Creole Spice Mix, parsley, 1 tbsp 
of the butter, and the salt to the rice and fluff with a fork. Cover 
and set aside.
Coat the catfish fillets evenly with the blackening spice. In a 
cast-iron frying pan, heat the oil over medium-high heat until 
shimmering. Add the catfish and cook until the bottoms are 
browned, about 2 minutes. Carefully turn the catfish over and 
add the remaining 1 tbsp butter, the garlic, lemon juice, and 
thyme. Cook, taking a spoon and pouring the juices over the 
catfish once or twice, until the catfish is browned and flakes 
easily, about 2 minutes.
Place the fish fillets on individual plates. Stir any remaining 
pan juices into the rice, and spoon the rice alongside the fish. 
Drizzle with the Roasted Red Pepper Sauce. Serve immediately.1 CUP/215 G long-grain  
white rice
1 CUP/240 ML water
¼ TSP  Creole Spice Mix  
(page 51)
1 TBSP  minced fresh parsley
2 TBSP  unsalted butter
½ TSP  kosher salt
FOUR 6- oz/170- g catfish fillets
1 TBSP  Blackening Spice  
(page 144)
1 TBSP  canola oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 TBSP  fresh lemon juice
2 sprigs fresh thyme
¼ CUP/60 ML Roasted Red 
Pepper Sauce (page 152)Responsibly farmed catfish, like the kind we serve at Brown Sugar Kitchen, are a “best 
choice” on the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch list. Catfish is very delicate, and 
not a good choice for grilling, but perfect for this preparation. I think its slightly sweet 
flavor is a great foil for some spice and this blackening spice definitely has a kick. Get 
out your cast-iron skillet and get real. Nothing tastes better with this dish than sweet 
corn and in-season tomatoes.SERVES 4
BLACKENED  
CATFISH152  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
MAKES 2 CUPS/480 ML
ROASTED RED PEPPER  
SAUCE
Drain the peppers, reserving the liquid. In a blender, combine 
the roasted peppers and 1/4 cup/60 ml of their liquid, the garlic, 
and Tabasco sauce and process until smooth. Taste and season 
with Tabasco sauce and salt. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an 
airtight container for up to 1 week.)ONE  15-oz/430 -g jar roasted red 
bell peppers
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 DASHES  of Tabasco sauce, 
plus more as needed
Kosher saltLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   153In a small bowl, combine the honey, bourbon, chili powder, gin -
ger, pepper, salt, lime zest, and lime juice.
Preheat the broiler and position the oven rack 6 in/15 cm below 
the broiler element. Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. 
Put the salmon fillets, skin-side down, on the prepared bak -
ing sheet and spoon the glaze evenly over them. Broil, without 
turning, until the glaze is bubbling and salmon is no longer 
opaque in the center, about 8 minutes. Serve immediately.¼ CUP/85 G honey
1½ TBSP  bourbon
2 TBSP  chili powder
½ TSP  ground ginger
¼ TSP  freshly ground pepper
¼ TSP  salt
½ TSP  lime zest
Juice of ½ lime
FOUR 6- oz/170- g skin-on salmon 
filletsFresh wild salmon definitely qualifies as a splurge, but it’s one I indulge in as often as I can 
during the season, which runs from May to October. The fish requires careful cooking to 
maintain its succulent flavor. As soon as the milky white juices appear on the surface, it’s 
done. Alvin, a neightbor to our restaurant B-Side Barbecue, eats this dish several times a 
week. He’s a testament to the power of our consistency. The flavor of salmon is more intense 
than other fish varieties, so it can handle this boldly flavored glaze. We serve it with a simple 
mixed green salad.SERVES 4
BOURBON  & CHILI –
GLAZED SALMONLARGE PLATES & BIG BOWLS   155In a large bowl, combine the salt, paprika, garlic powder, onion 
powder, cayenne, black pepper, oregano, and thyme. Add the 
tofu and toss to coat, rubbing the spices over the tofu if needed.
Ignite an electric grill and set to 200°F/95°C, or start a small 
fire in a charcoal grill. If using an electric grill, place hickory, 
mesquite, or any other aromatic wood chips in a piece of alu -
minum foil and punch holes in the foil with a fork. Set the foil 
package on top of the grill grates. (If using a charcoal grill, 
place the wood chips directly on the charcoal.) Put the tofu on 
the grate, cover the grill, and cook until the tofu is infused with 
the flavor of the smoke, 25 to 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line a baking sheet with 
parchment paper. In a large bowl, combine the eggplant, olive 
oil, and salt and toss until evenly coated. Spread the eggplant 
in a single layer on the prepared baking sheet, and bake until 
tender, about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, combine the barbecue sauce 
and water. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until 
the mixture begins to thicken, about 30 minutes.
Add the smoked tofu and the roasted eggplant to the pan, and 
let simmer until the tofu and the eggplant are infused with the 
flavor of the sauce, about 25 minutes. Serve immediately.½ TSP  kosher salt
½ TSP  hot paprika
¼ TSP  garlic powder
½ TSP  onion powder
¼ TSP  cayenne pepper
¼ TSP  freshly ground black 
pepper
¼ TSP  dried oregano
¼ TSP  dried thyme
1½ LB/680 G firm tofu, cut into 
¾-in/2-cm cubes
2 eggplants, cut into ¾-in/ 2-cm 
cubes
3 TBSP  olive oil
1 TSP  kosher salt
1½ CUPS/360 ML Molasses BBQ 
Sauce (page 156)
3 CUPS/720 ML waterSome customers laugh when they see this tofu on the menu, as if to question why anyone 
other than a strict vegetarian would choose it over ribs. Well, one bite and they reconsider. 
At B-Side, we’re fortunate to be able to source our tofu from Hodo Soy Beanery, a producer 
based here in Oakland, which makes a meaty, organic tofu that really takes on the flavor of 
the sauce.SERVES 6
B-SIDE BBQ  
BRAISED SMOKED TOFU  WITH  
ROASTED  EGGPLANT156  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
MAKES 4 CUPS/960 ML
MOLASSES  
BBQ SAUCE
In a large heavy-bottomed saucepan, melt the butter over 
medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and ginger and cook until 
the onion starts to soften, about 10 minutes. Stir in the mus -
tard, vinegar, soy sauce, sugar, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, 
lemon juice, chipotle chiles, and chile powder and continue 
cooking for 10 minutes more.
Add the tomatoes with their juice and molasses and cook until 
the sauce is thick and flavorful, about 30 minutes.
Transfer to a blender or food processor and process until 
smooth. Season with salt and pepper. (To make ahead, refriger -
ate in an airtight container for up to 2 months.)1 TBSP  unsalted butter
1 red onion, minced
6 garlic cloves, minced
1 TBSP  grated fresh ginger
1 TBSP  Dijon mustard
¼ CUP/60 ML apple cider 
vinegar
2 TBSP  soy sauce
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
2 TBSP  ketchup
1½ TBSP  Worcestershire sauce
1 TBSP  fresh lemon juice
1 TBSP  canned chipotle chiles 
in adobo
2½ TSP  chile powder
1½ CUPS/285 G chopped canned 
peeled plum tomatoes
¼ CUP/60 ML molasses
Kosher salt and freshly ground 
pepperBOOTS RILEY
MUSICIAN, FRONT MAN FOR STR/EET SW/EEPER SOCIAL CLUB AND 
THE COUP, CO/MMUNITY ACTIVIST
Lives:  West Oakland, since 2006
Regular order:  Shrimp and grits
People associated me with West Oakland long before I lived 
here. The Coup and Street Sweeper Social Club shot a lot of videos in the neighborhood. Whenever a producer comes from the East Coast they want to shoot here. They like the architec-ture—the old buildings and the old houses. I moved to Lower Bottoms in 2006 and it’s the friendliest neighborhood I’ve ever lived in. Families that moved here in the 1950s and ’60s are still here. Someone will say, “Oh, it’s a sunny day. Let’s have a barbecue on the sidewalk.” If someone doesn’t show up, they go knock on their door and say, “Hey, you didn’t get a plate,” and offer some food. I had a studio at Tenth Street and Wood Street ﬁlled with tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of equipment. Often I would be in such a rush that I’d leave my door open all day, but nothing was ever taken. That’s the beneﬁt of commu-nity and people knowing each other. When we were recording our last album we came to Brown Sugar Kitchen every day. The studio was just a few blocks away, and we would come for cof-fee and pastry in the mornings and sometimes later for a meal. The people in West Oakland are really proud of Brown Sugar Kitchen. Like the neighborhood, it’s a remix of the old and the new. Because the food represents black culture, the people here see it as a beacon. It’s part of the ideal of what West Oakland should be.
THE SOUND OF  
WEST OAKLAND
Music, like food, can forge community. It soothes 
the rough edges that keep people apart and feeds a common need. In West Oakland, music has a long history of bringing people together. In the 1940s, the neighborhood was known as the Harlem of the West, attracting artists like Billie Holiday, Big Mama  Thornton, and Aretha Franklin to the clubs that lined Seventh Street. Faded signs for famous venues  like Esther’s Orbit Room and Slim Jenkins can still  be seen on the facades on the buildings there. Decades  later, in the 1990s, D’wayne Wiggins, who was born in the Lower Bottom in West Oakland, brought fresh  attention to the area when he opened House of Music  on Wood Street and brought artists like Destiny’s Child, India Arie, and Jamie Foxx in to record. His own group, Tony! Toni! Toné!, continues to tour. Today the neighborhood is home to musicians like  Boots Riley and Al Lucchesi’s Soundwave Studios,  where Third Eye Blind, metal bands like Testament,  and the late Tupac Shakur have all recorded. Music-ians know they have a home at Brown Sugar Kitchen,  where they drop by during breaks in their sessions for a cup of coffee or a meal. Their music feeds our souls. We can only hope to return the favor with a plate of chicken and waffles.KOFY BROWN
MUSICIAN
Lives:  West Oakland, since 1994
Regular order:  Beignets 
I met Tanya at a party shortly after she and Phil moved to West 
Oakland. She told me she was going to open a restaurant in the neighborhood. When Brown Sugar Kitchen opened, I didn’t know it was hers until I walked in and saw her cooking. Now I eat here about once a week. West Oakland has a buzz; there’s a spirit and I can feel it. I’ve lived here long enough to see atti-tudes transformed. I chose to live here because it’s an indus-trial neighborhood. It’s cool. The people are impassioned. It’s a perfect place to build a community. There’s a mix of incomes but people have a shared vision and they look out for each other. West Oakland has a history of people pulling together. This community has a spark and when you live here you start to appreciate it. It’s a real melting pot, true diversity. What we have here is rare. People talk to each other, not to say, “Be like me,” but to say, “Who are you, what are you doing?” 
ALAN LUCCHESI
OWNER, SOUNDWAVE STUDIOS
Works:  West Oakland, since 1992
Regular order:  Beignets
My house burned down in the Oakland hills ﬁre in 1991, and 
we got enough money out of the insurance deal to buy a build-ing here. We came because it’s on the edge of town and there’s no one to bother us. We have a lot of elbow room here and not much supervision. We can do what we want. People feel like they can relax here. It’s not an uptight place to be. After the freeway came down, this area opened up. When I moved here people thought I was nuts, but musicians are loud, we can’t go just anywhere. West Oakland is a great location for us. At the studio, we’ll have a mariachi band in one room, someone rap-ping in another, and someone doing techno down the hall. It’s a mash-up of people who would never meet anyplace else and they’re all hanging out together. It’s a microcosm of this area. Everyone is in harmony. Now I’m trying to open a club, but ﬁrst I had to convince the city that it was a good idea. When Tanya and Phil wrote us a recommendation, the doors at City Hall blew open. They are very enamored of Brown Sugar Kitchen there. One of the planning commissioners said, “If Brown Sugar Kitchen thinks it’s a good idea, I’m in.”
CHAPTER 6
SWEETSSoutherners are known to have a sweet tooth, and even though I was born in Connecti-
cut, I inherited the gene. My Southern grandmothers were both home bakers and there was always a cake or pie on their kitchen counters. I grew up attending a traditional Southern Baptist church that would often hold bake sales.  Cookies, layer cakes, cob-
blers, puddings, and pies are part of a long tradition in the soul food kitchen and I love them all.
To my mind, a meal isn’t complete until I’ve had dessert. While I’ve spent most of my 
career working on the savory side of the kitchen, there have been several times when I’ve had to work in the pastry department, and I’m a better cook for the experience. Baking requires more patience and precision of timing and measurement.
A number of bakers have inﬂuenced the sweets we offer at Brown Sugar Kitchen. It’s 
perhaps the most challenging job in the restaurant. Our bakers must work in a very small space, sharing the two ovens with the rest of the cooks, and there’s very little room in the refrigerator for the storage they need. Still, it’s amazing to see what our bakers can do.
When we opened, my friend Tina, who had once owned a bakery, helped get our baking 
traditions started. She brought her sticky buns to the mix. Next came Shuna, a French Laundry alum, who organized the recipes and translated them into restaurant-quantity  numbers. She was followed by Gillian, whose affinity for homemade desserts and jams made people pay attention to the baked goods display. Jeremy took over after Gillian left to start her own bakery. He turned out to have a natural baking talent, but his  leadership skills are so exceptional that after a year of baking, we brought him back to the savory side to be our kitchen manager. The petite Lauren took over next. She doesn’t look like she’s ever eaten cake or cookies, but she has an incredible talent for baking. Some of her best work is in this chapter: the Caramelized Banana Pudding (page 165), Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan Bars (page 173), and Pineapple Upside-Down Cake (page 184) to name a few.164  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENIn a food processor, combine the hazelnuts and brown sugar 
and grind together until the nuts are uniformly pulverized.
In a medium saucepan, bring the cream to a simmer over 
medium heat. Remove from the heat and add the chocolate. Let 
stand, undisturbed, for about 2 minutes, then whisk until the 
chocolate is completely melted. Stir in the bourbon and hazel -
nut mixture. Transfer the chocolate mixture to a small bowl, 
cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until thoroughly cold, 
about 3 hours.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Using a teaspoon 
and your hands or a small melon baller, form the chocolate into 
small balls and place on the prepared baking sheet. You should 
have 24 balls. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate 
until firm, about 1 hour.
Sift the cocoa powder into a small bowl. A few at a time, add 
the truffles to the bowl, and toss to coat with the cocoa powder. 
Transfer to a serving plate or place in paper or aluminum foil 
candy cups. Serve at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to 
1 week.)½ CUP/55 G hazelnuts, toasted 
(see page 75)
2 TBSP  firmly packed brown 
sugar
2/3 CUP/165 ML heavy cream
8 OZ/225 G best-quality 
semisweet or dark chocolate, 
finely chopped
2 TBSP  bourbon
¼ CUP/20 G unsweetened  
cocoa powderBourbon, chocolate, and hazelnuts—need I say more? I first discovered hazelnuts when I was 
a student at the old Peter Kump’s New York Cooking School on Manhattan’s Upper East Side. 
I learned so much that year and I worked with many ingredients that were new to me. We 
were taught to roast and peel them, and I was so bowled over by their smell that I could barely 
wait for them to cool before eating them.MAKES ABOUT 24 TRUFFLES
BOURBON- HAZELNUT  
TRUFFLESSWEETS   165To make the vanilla wafers:  Preheat the oven to 
350°F/180°C. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Using 
a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter 
and granulated sugar on medium speed until light and fluffy, 
about 5 minutes. Reduce the speed to low and add the flour mix -
ture, beating just until crumbly. In a small bowl, combine the 
vanilla and milk, then slowly pour it into the dough mixture. 
Beat just until the dough comes together to form a ball. 
Place the dough on a clean work surface and roll it into a log 
about 1 in/2.5 cm wide and about 8 in/20 cm long. Cut the log 
into 1/4-in/6-mm slices and place the slices on the prepared 
baking sheet about 1 in/2.5 cm apart. You should have about 
32 cookies. Bake until the cookie tops are no longer soft to the 
touch, 12 to 15 minutes. Let cool on the baking sheet for 5 min -
utes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
To make the pudding:  Set a medium bowl over an ice bath. 
In a small bowl, whisk together the egg yolks until smooth 
and pale. In a saucepan over medium heat, whisk together the 
flour, granulated sugar, and salt, then add the milk and vanilla 
and whisk until combined. Cook, whisking occasionally, until 
you see the first big, boiling bubble. Slowly pour the hot milk VANILLA WAFERS
¾ CUP/95 G all-purpose flour
¼ TSP  baking powder
¼ TSP  kosher salt
4 TBSP/60 G unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
1/3 CUP/65 G granulated sugar
1 TBSP  vanilla extract
1 TBSP  whole milk
PUDDING
4 egg yolks
½ CUP/60 G all-purpose flour
½ CUP/100 G granulated sugar
¼ TSP  kosher salt
3 CUPS/720 ML whole milk
2 TSP  vanilla extract
CARAMELIZED 
BANANAS
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
¼ TSP  ground cinnamon
¼ TSP  kosher salt
4 firm, ripe bananas,  
slicedBanana pudding is one of my dad’s favorite desserts. We always made it with store-bought 
vanilla wafers using the recipe on the side of the box. At Brown Sugar Kitchen we never make 
anything from a box, so we developed this recipe, which includes a homemade version of that 
famous cookie, but the caramelized bananas are the best part of this dish.SERVES 6
CARAMELIZED  
BANANA PUDDING
CONTINUEDSWEETS   167mixture into the bowl with the egg yolks, whisking all the while 
so as not to scramble the eggs. Transfer this mixture back to 
the saucepan, and cook over medium-low heat, whisking often, 
until thickened, about 5 minutes. Strain the pudding through a 
fine-mesh sieve into the bowl in the ice bath. Immediately press 
a piece of plastic wrap directly onto the surface of the pudding 
to keep a skin from forming. Let cool completely. Refrigerate 
until ready to assemble the puddings.
To make the caramelized bananas:  In a wide sauté pan, 
heat the butter, brown sugar, cinnamon, and salt over medium 
heat, stirring occasionally, until the butter melts, the sugar dis -
solves, and the mixture bubbles, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the banana 
slices and, using a spoon, turn gently to coat the slices with 
the sugar mixture until the bananas are warmed through and 
glazed and the sauce thins out, about 3 minutes.
In six 1-cup/240-ml serving cups, layer pudding, 3 vanilla 
wafers, and about 2 tbsp of the caramelized bananas, then 
repeat the layers, dividing the ingredients evenly among the 
cups. Top with cookies.
Serve immediately or cover with plastic wrap and refriger -
ate until ready to serve. The pudding will keep up to 24 hours, 
although the cookies will soften.168  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Butter an 8-by-8-in/20-by-
20-cm baking dish.
In a large bowl, whisk together the buttermilk, sugar, eggs,  
egg yolks, and vanilla. Gently stir in the crumbled cornbread 
and currants.
Pour the pudding mixture into the prepared baking dish and 
cover the dish with aluminum foil. Set the baking dish in a 
roasting pan and fill the pan with enough hot tap water to reach 
halfway up the sides of the baking dish.
Bake for 1 hour. Remove the foil and bake for 15 minutes more, 
until the top of the pudding is golden brown. Serve warm or at 
room temperature.
(To make ahead, cover with aluminum foil and refrigerate for 
up to 2 days. Reheat, covered, in a 350°F/180°C oven just until 
heated through, about 20 minutes.)3 CUPS/720 ML buttermilk
¾ CUP/150 G sugar
5 eggs plus 3 egg yolks
2 TSP  vanilla extract
1 CUP/85 G coarsely crumbled 
Buttermilk Cornbread  
(page 106) or corn muffins
½ CUP/70 G dried currants or 
raisinsThere’s nothing like piping hot cornbread fresh out of the oven and slathered with butter. 
Leftover cornbread is never quite the same; reheating cold cornbread usually just dries it 
out (though leftovers do make great croutons; see my Vidalia Onion Soup on page 116). This 
rich bread pudding will have you craving leftovers. One of our regular customers tells me this 
reminds him of the cornbread crumbled into a bowl of milk that he ate instead of cereal when 
he was a kid. I would eat this pudding for dessert, for breakfast, or at any time of day!SERVES 8
BUTTERMILK  
CORNBREAD  
PUDDINGSWEETS   169To make the sauce:  Put the chocolate in a medium heat -
proof bowl. In a small saucepan, combine the cream, coffee, and 
cinnamon stick and bring to a simmer over medium heat. Pour 
the hot cream mixture over the chocolate. Let stand, undis -
turbed, for about 2 minutes. Discard the cinnamon stick, then 
whisk until the chocolate is completely melted and the mixture 
is blended and smooth. Keep in a warm place while you make 
the beignets.
To make the beignets:  In a small bowl, combine the  
yeast, granulated sugar, and water. Let stand until foamy, about  
5 minutes.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine 
the eggs, evaporated milk, and salt and mix on medium speed. 
Stir in the yeast mixture and the melted butter. Reduce the 
speed to low, add half the flour, and mix just until combined. 
(Alternately, stir in the flour with a wooden spoon.) Scrape down 
the sides of the bowl, and add the remaining flour. Continue to 
mix on low speed until the dough forms a smooth yet slightly 
sticky ball.
Transfer the dough to an oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap, 
and let rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 1 hour. 
Punch down the dough. (To make ahead, refrigerate the dough 
for up to 24 hours. Let come to room temperature for no more 
than 30 minutes before frying.)CHOCOLATE-CHICORY 
SAUCE
10 OZ/280 G bittersweet 
chocolate, finely chopped
1½ CUPS/360 ML heavy cream
½ CUP/120 ML brewed chicory 
coffee, such as Café du Monde 
brand
1 cinnamon stick
BEIGNETS
2¼ TSP  active dry yeast
¼ CUP/50 G granulated sugar
¼ CUP/60 ML warm water
3 eggs, beaten
ONE 12- oz/360- ml can 
evaporated milk
1 TSP  salt
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter, 
melted
3¾ CUPS/470 G all-purpose flour
Canola oil for deep-frying
1 CUP/100 G powdered sugar
1 TSP  ground cinnamonI can’t re-create the atmosphere at Café du Monde, a more-than-a-century-old, open-air 
coffee shop in New Orleans’ French Quarter, but I was inspired by their signature beignets 
to make my own at Brown Sugar Kitchen. I use a lighter vegetable oil to fry them and a little 
less powdered sugar than they do at the Café. The chocolate-chicory sauce is my own spin on 
Café du Monde’s signature coffee drink. These are at their best served warm.SERVES 4
BEIGNETS WITH  
CHOCOLATE-CHICORY SAUCESWEETS   171CONTINUED
In a large saucepan, add oil to a depth of 1 1/2 in/4 cm. Heat the 
oil to 365°F/185°C over medium heat until hot but not smoking. 
While the oil heats, in a small bowl, stir together the powdered 
sugar and ground cinnamon. Line a baking sheet with paper 
towels.
Working in batches and taking care not to crowd the pan, drop 
the dough by the tablespoonful into the hot oil and fry until 
light gold, about 3 minutes, turning after 1 to 2 minutes. Using 
a slotted spoon, transfer the beignets to the prepared baking 
sheet to drain for 30 seconds. Dredge in the cinnamon sugar. 
Serve hot, with chocolate-chicory sauce for dipping.172  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Line a baking sheet with 
parchment paper.
In a large bowl, stir together the flour, salt, baking soda, and 
baking powder. Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle 
attachment, combine the butter with the granulated and brown 
sugars and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasion -
ally, until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg and mix 
until just combined. Add the peanut butter and vanilla and beat 
until fully incorporated, about 1 minute. Reduce the speed to 
low, add the flour mixture, and mix until just combined.
Roll the dough into walnut-size balls. You should have about  
30 balls. Pour the raw sugar into a shallow dish. Roll the balls 
in the raw sugar and place on the prepared baking sheet about 
2 in/5 cm apart.
Bake until the cookies are just starting to brown, 8 to 10 min -
utes. Let cool on the baking sheet for 10 minutes. Transfer to a 
wire rack to cool completely. 
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.)1¼ CUPS/155 G all-purpose flour
¼ TSP  kosher salt
½ TSP  baking soda
½ TSP  baking powder
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
½ CUP/100 G granulated sugar
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
1 egg
½ CUP/115 G crunchy peanut 
butter
½ TSP  vanilla extract
¼ CUP/50 G raw or turbinado 
sugarThis is my ultimate comfort cookie. It just begs for a big glass of cold milk or a cup of hot 
coffee. It’s such a simple recipe. I think it was one of the first that I learned in a home econom -
ics class in junior high.MAKES ABOUT 30 COOKIES
CRUNCHY  
PEANUT BUTTER 
COOKIESSWEETS   173To make the crust:  Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter 
and flour an 8-in/20-cm square baking pan.
In a food processor, pulse together the flour, cocoa powder, 
sugar, and salt. Scatter the chilled butter cubes over the flour 
mixture and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. 
Do not overprocess; the dough will look very dry and crumbly.
Press the dough into the prepared pan evenly across the bot -
tom and about 1 in/2.5 cm up the sides; it should be about 1/2 in/  
12 mm thick. Bake until the crust looks dry and slightly puffed, 
about 15 minutes.
To make the filling:  In a small saucepan, combine the butter, 
brown sugar, maple syrup, and salt and cook over medium-low 
heat, stirring occasionally, until the butter is melted and the 
sugar is dissolved. Stir in the pecans and cream, reduce to a 
simmer, and cook until bubbling and warmed through, about  
3 minutes.
When the crust is done, gently press down on any puffed-up 
areas. Pour the filling evenly over the crust. Bake until the fill -
ing has thickened and is bubbling, about 15 minutes. Let cool 
completely.
Cut into nine squares and serve at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, store in an airtight container at room tem -
perature or in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.)COCOA CRUST
1 CUP/125 G all-purpose flour
¼ CUP/20 G Dutch-processed 
cocoa powder, sifted
1/3 CUP/65 G firmly packed light 
brown sugar
¼ TSP  kosher salt
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter, cut 
into cubes and chilled
PECAN FILLING
6 TBSP/85 G unsalted butter
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed dark 
brown sugar
2 TBSP  pure maple syrup
½ TSP  kosher salt
8 OZ/225 G pecans, coarsely 
chopped
¼ CUP/60 ML heavy creamSometimes a slice of pecan pie is just too much after a meal of chicken and waffles or a bowl 
of shrimp and grits, so we came up with these bars that are only slightly less indulgent. I like 
a little chocolate with my pecan pie, so we bake these on a chocolate crust. Slice them into 
bite-size pieces to serve as petit fours, or cut them the size of a standard brownie for a more 
substantial dessert. After noon, wash them down with a glass of bourbon.MAKES 9 BARS
BLACK-BOTTOM  
MAPLE-PECAN  BARSSWEETS   175Preheat the oven to 375°F/190°C. Butter a 13-by-9-in/33-by-
23-cm glass or ceramic baking dish.
In a food processor, combine the flour, baking powder, and 
salt. Scatter the chilled butter cubes over the flour mixture 
and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Do not 
overprocess. Transfer the flour mixture to a large bowl and add 
1/2 cup/100 g of the sugar and the cream, mixing with a wooden 
spoon just until the dough comes together. Cover the bowl with 
a kitchen towel and let rest while preparing the filling.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Using a paring knife, cut 
a small “X” into the skin of the peaches and nectarines. Drop 
the peaches and nectarines into boiling water. As soon as the 
“X” curls away from the fruits, about 40 seconds, remove them  
from the water with tongs or a slotted spoon. When cool enough 
to handle, pull the skin away from the flesh and cut the peaches 
and nectarines into 1/2-in-/12-mm-thick slices.
In a large bowl, toss the peach and nectarine slices with the 
cornstarch, the remaining 1/4 cup/50 g sugar, cinnamon, and 
nutmeg. Spoon the fruit into the prepared baking dish. Cover 
the fruit with heaping tablespoons of the cobbler dough.
Bake for 35 minutes, until the cobbler is lightly browned and the  
fruit is bubbling. Let rest for 10 minutes before serving warm.2 CUPS/255 G all-purpose flour
1 TBSP  baking powder
½ TSP  kosher salt
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter, cut 
into cubes and chilled
¾ CUP/150 G sugar
1 CUP/240 ML heavy cream
3 peaches
3 nectarines
2 TBSP  cornstarch
½ TSP  ground cinnamon
PINCH  of grated nutmegI remember Grandma Holland was always putting up peaches during the summer so that we 
could have peach cobbler year-round. If you do that, this can be one of the fastest desserts 
to make, with a little bit of planning. All you have to do is open a jar of home-canned fruit, 
add the warm spices, and top with the cobbler dough. Serve it warm with ice cream, please!SERVES 6 TO 8
PEACH  & NECTARINE  
COBBLER176  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENTo make the crust:  In a food processor, combine the flour, 
chilled butter, and salt. Pulse until the mixture resembles small 
peas. Add 4 tbsp/60 ml of the ice water and pulse just until the 
dough holds together when pressed between your fingers. If 
necessary, add more water, 1 tbsp at a time. Do not overprocess.
Turn out the dough onto a lightly floured surface. Knead lightly, 
form into a disk, and wrap with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at 
least 30 minutes or up to overnight. 
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough into a 1/8-in-/4 -mm-
thick circle, slightly larger than a 10-in/25-cm tart pan. Fit the 
dough into the pan and trim excess from the edges. Refrigerate 
for at least 30 minutes before filling.
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
To make the filling:  Using a stand mixer fitted with the 
paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar on medium 
speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes, scraping down 
the bowl at least twice. Add the egg yolks, coconut, vanilla, and 
cream and mix until combined. Stir in the cornmeal. 
Pour the filling into the crust and bake until browned and set in 
the center, 35 to 40 minutes. Shake it a little; the filling should 
jiggle, but not be too loose.
Transfer to a wire rack to let cool completely. Dust with pow -
dered sugar and slice into wedges. Serve at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for up 
to 2 days.)TART CRUST
2¼ CUPS/285 G all-purpose flour
1 CUP/225 G unsalted butter, cut 
into cubes and chilled
1 TSP  kosher salt
4 TO 7 TBSP/60 TO 105 ML   
ice water
COCONUT CHESS 
FILLING
8 TBSP/115 G unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
2 CUPS/400 G granulated sugar
7 egg yolks
1 CUP/95 G sweetened flaked 
coconut
1½ TSP  vanilla extract
½ CUP/120 ML heavy cream
3 TBSP  cornmeal
Powdered sugar for servingChess pie is an underrated yet wonderful dessert. The traditional version is a rich vanilla-  
scented custard, though I’ve had lemon ones as well. I like it with coconut for a bit of tropical fla -
vor. I often prefer a tart to a pie since it’s shallower and has a more even ratio of crust to filling.SERVES 10 TO 12
COCONUT CHESS  
TARTSWEETS   177To make the crust:  In a medium bowl, combine the flour, 
baking powder, and salt. Add the chilled butter and use a pas -
try cutter or two knives to cut the butter into the flour until the 
mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add the sour cream and stir 
just until the dough comes together.
Turn out the dough onto a lightly floured surface. Knead lightly, 
form into a disk, and wrap with plastic wrap. Refrigerate for at 
least 4 hours or up to overnight.
Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
On a lightly floured surface, roll dough into a circle slightly 
larger than a 9-in/23-cm pie pan. Fit the dough into the pan and 
trim excess from the edges. Line the dough with aluminum foil 
and fill with pie weights or dried beans. Bake for 15 minutes. 
Remove the crust from the oven and carefully remove foil and 
weights. Let the crust cool on a wire rack.
To make the filling:  Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. 
Line a rimmed baking sheet with aluminum foil. Prick each 
sweet potato several times with a fork and put on the prepared 
baking sheet. Bake until tender when pierced with a fork, 
40 to 45 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool to room 
temperature.
CONTINUEDCRUST
¾ CUP/95 G all-purpose flour
¼ TSP  baking powder
¼ TSP  kosher salt
6 TBSP/85 G unsalted butter, 
cut into cubes and chilled
½ CUP/120 ML sour cream
SWEET POTATO 
FILLING
1 LB/455 G orange-fleshed sweet 
potatoes
1 CUP/200 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
½ TSP  ground cinnamon
½ TSP  ground allspice
¼ TSP  grated nutmeg
1 TSP  salt
4 eggs
1 CUP/240 ML heavy cream
¼ CUP/60 ML orange juice
4 TBSP/55 G unsalted butter, 
melted and cooled slightlySweet potato pie is the only item on the Brown Sugar Kitchen dessert menu that we serve 
every day. We’ve played with different crusts, and we think that this one offers just the right 
amount of tenderness and flakiness. I’ve toned down the filling so that it's not overly sweet. 
We put it out on the pastry counter first thing in the morning and you’d be surprised how 
many of our customers eat it for breakfast.SERVES 8
DOWN-HOME  
SWEET POTATO  
PIESWEETS   179Reduce the oven temperature to 350°F/180°C. Scoop the flesh 
from the sweet potatoes and purée in a food processor. Transfer 
to a large bowl.
In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, cinnamon, allspice, 
nutmeg, and salt, stirring to break up any lumps. Stir the brown 
sugar mixture into the sweet potatoes. In the same small bowl, 
whisk together the eggs and cream, add to the sweet potato 
mixture, and stir to combine. Add the orange juice and the 
melted butter, and stir to combine. 
Pour the filling into the blind baked crust and bake until set in 
the center, about 45 minutes.
Transfer to a wire rack to let cool completely. Serve at room 
temperature. 
(To make ahead, cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for up 
to 2 days.)SWEETS   181Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter and flour a 12-cup/  
2.8-L Bundt pan.
In a medium pot, cover the sweet potatoes with water. Bring to 
a boil, and cook until the potatoes are soft, about 15 minutes. 
Drain.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, baking soda, 
cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, ginger, and salt.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat 
the cooked sweet potatoes and eggs on medium speed until 
smooth. Add the melted butter and beat until combined. 
Reduce the speed to low, add the flour mixture, and mix just 
until combined. Remove the workbowl from the mixer and,  
with a wooden spoon, stir in the chocolate chips. Spoon the 
batter into the prepared Bundt pan.
Bake until a toothpick or skewer inserted into the center of the 
cake comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack 
to let cool completely in the pan, about 1 hour. Loosen the cake 
from the pan using the tip of a dinner knife, then invert a rack 
over the pan and turn the cake out onto the rack.
Serve at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, cover with plastic wrap and store at room 
temperature for up to 3 days.)1½ LB/680 G  orange-fleshed 
sweet potatoes, peeled and cut 
into large pieces
31/3 CUPS/420 G  all-purpose flour
2 CUPS/400 G sugar
1 TBSP  baking soda
1 TBSP  ground cinnamon
1 TBSP  ground allspice
1 TBSP  grated nutmeg
1 TBSP  ground ginger
½ TSP  kosher salt
4 eggs
1 CUP/225 G unsalted butter, 
melted and slightly cooled
2 CUPS/340 G chocolate chipsSweet potatoes and chocolate chips seem like an unlikely combination, but they work really 
well together. I like to tell myself that the sweet potatoes help make the cake a nutritious 
snack as well as a sweet one. If you want to gild the lily, drizzle with Chocolate-Chicory Sauce 
(page 169). If you like baking cakes, it’s worth investing in a nice Bundt pan. They’re a simple 
way to make pretty cakes.SERVES 12
SPICED   
SWEET POTATO  
BUNDT CAKE182  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPreheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter and flour a 12-cup/  
2.8-L Bundt pan.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, and 
cinnamon.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix 
the eggs, granulated sugar, oil, and salt on medium speed until 
combined. Reduce the speed to low, add the flour mixture, and 
mix until completely moistened. Remove the workbowl from 
the mixer and, with a wooden spoon, gently fold in the apples 
and walnuts. Spoon the batter into the prepared Bundt pan.
Bake until a toothpick or skewer inserted into the center of the 
cake comes out clean, 60 to 75 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack 
to let cool in the pan for about 15 minutes. Loosen the cake from 
the pan using the tip of a dinner knife, then invert a rack over 
the pan and turn the cake out onto the rack. Set the rack on a 
parchment-lined baking sheet.
To make the glaze:  In a saucepan, combine the brown sugar, 
butter, and milk over high heat. Bring to a boil, and cook, stir -
ring occasionally, until the sugar has completely dissolved, 
about 5 minutes.
Carefully spoon the glaze over the warm cake. Let cool com -
pletely. Serve at room temperature. 
(To make ahead, cover with plastic wrap and store at room 
temperature for up to 3 days.)3½ CUPS/440 G all-purpose flour
1 TSP  baking soda
1 TSP  ground cinnamon
3 eggs
2 CUPS/400 G granulated sugar
1½ CUPS/360 ML vegetable oil
1 TSP  kosher salt
1 LB/455 G firm Granny Smith 
apples, cored, peeled, and cut 
into small dice
1 CUP/140 G walnuts, lightly 
toasted and coarsely chopped 
(see page 75)
BROWN SUGAR GLAZE
1 CUP/200 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter
¼ CUP/60 ML whole milkMy Grandma Thomas, my maternal grandmother from Louisiana, made this apple cake 
every holiday season, and I still have the handwritten recipe that she mailed to me years ago. 
She was a huge influence on my cooking and my knowledge of food. At one point, she worked 
for the Louisiana Cooperative Board and distributed healthful, simple recipes to low-income 
families. She would send me copies of the recipes, and I loved reading them and imagining 
the flavors. This cake remains one of my favorites. It’s so moist that no ice cream is needed.SERVES 8 TO 10
APPLE   
BUNDT CAKE  
WITH BROWN SUGAR  
GLAZEBRUCE COX
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, ALLIANCE FOR WEST OAKLAND 
DEVELOPMENT
Works:  West Oakland, 30 years
Regular orders:  Breakfast tart, blackened catﬁsh
I met Tanya at a city council meeting when we both went 
asking for funding. She was looking for help in getting Brown Sugar Kitchen opened and I needed money for my nonproﬁt organization. I teach building trades at a couple of West Oakland schools and am considered an expert on the old Victorian houses in the area. I’ve helped a lot of kids get jobs working on the new construction in the neighborhood. I had a rough childhood and I could’ve easily taken a wrong turn, but learning a trade helped to steer me in the right direction. Now it’s my turn to help. They give me the roughest kids in the school. I don’t believe in babysitting them, but I’m humble enough to understand what they’re going through. It can be a challenge, but I’m able to talk to them.
I stop by Brown Sugar Kitchen anytime I’m in the neighbor-
hood. I can’t get two steps in the door there without seeing someone I know. Coming to Brown Sugar Kitchen is the high-light of my day. We need more places like it. Look at the diver-sity of the people Tanya’s hired. We both work hard to create jobs for people in the neighborhood. That means a lot.
184  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter and flour a 9-in/23-cm 
round cake pan.
In a small saucepan, combine 1/4 cup/55 g of the butter and the 
brown sugar over low heat; stir until the butter is melted and 
the sugar has dissolved. Pour the mixture into the prepared 
cake pan, spreading it into an even layer to cover the bottom. 
Arrange the pineapple slices on top.
In a small bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. 
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream 
the remaining 1/2 cup/115 g butter and the granulated sugar on 
medium speed until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes, scraping 
down the bowl at least twice. Add the eggs and egg yolk, one at a 
time, beating well after each addition. Add the vanilla and mix 
until combined. Reduce speed to low, and add the flour mixture 
and the buttermilk alternately, in three additions, beginning 
and ending with the flour.
With a rubber spatula, scrape the batter over the pineapple in 
the cake pan and spread into an even layer. Bake until a tooth -
pick inserted into the center comes out clean, 50 to 55 minutes.¾ CUP/170 G unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
1 ripe pineapple, peeled, cored, 
and cut into ¼-in/6-mm rings or 
half-moons
1½ CUPS/185 G all-purpose flour
1½ TSP  baking powder
¼ TSP  kosher salt
1 CUP  plus 2 TBSP/225 G 
granulated sugar
2 eggs plus 1 egg yolk
1 TSP  vanilla extract
½ CUP  plus 2 TBSP/180 ML 
buttermilkThis cake reminds me of church bake sales. When I was a kid in upstate New York, I attended 
a Southern-ish Baptist church. It seemed that there was always one group or another raising 
funds for uniforms or a field trip. Each person trying to outdo the other with a secret family 
recipe. Bake sales were an early form of crowdfunding, and the rewards provided immediate 
gratification. SERVES 8 TO 10
PINEAPPLE  
UPSIDE-DOWN  CAKESWEETS   185Let the cake cool in the pan on a wire rack for about 20 min -
utes. Loosen the cake from the pan using the tip of a thin, sharp 
knife, then carefully invert the cake onto a flat serving plate. 
Replace any fruit that might have been left in the pan. Let cool 
completely. Serve at room temperature.
(The cake is best served the day it is baked, but to make ahead, 
cover with plastic wrap or store in an airtight container at 
room temperature for up to 1 day or refrigerate for up to 3 days.)186  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter and flour two 
9-in/23-cm round cake pans.
In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and baking powder. 
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream 
the butter, granulated sugar, and salt on medium speed until 
light and fluffy, about 5 minutes, scraping down the bowl at 
least twice. Drizzle in the cooled caramel syrup and mix just 
until combined. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after 
each addition. Add the vanilla and mix until combined. Reduce 
the speed to low, and add the flour mixture and the milk alter -
nately, in three additions, beginning and ending with the flour.
Scrape the batter into the prepared pans. Bake until the sides 
pull away from the pan and a toothpick stuck into the centers of 
the cakes comes out clean, about 25 minutes.
Let the cakes cool in the pans on a wire rack for 10 minutes. 
Invert the cakes onto the rack and cool completely before frost -
ing. (To make ahead, cover the cakes tightly with plastic wrap, 
and refrigerate for up to 48 hours or freeze for up to 2 weeks. If 
frozen, thaw the layers before assembling the cake.)
CONTINUED5 CUPS/620 G flour
1 TSP  baking powder
1¼ CUPS/280 G unsalted butter, 
at room temperature
2½ CUPS/500 G granulated 
sugar
2 TSP  salt
2/3 CUP/165 ML Caramel Syrup 
(page 189), cooled
4 eggs
2 TSP  vanilla extract
2 CUPS/480 ML whole milk
BROWN BUTTER -–
CARAMEL FROSTING
¾ CUP/170 G unsalted butter
2¾ CUPS/280 G powdered sugar
½ TSP  vanilla extract
½ TSP  salt
¼ CUP/60 ML heavy cream, plus 
more as needed
3 TBSP  Caramel Syrup  
(page 189), cooledThis is a “company’s coming” cake. It’s a little extra work, but the results are worth it. Break 
up the tasks and you’ll enjoy the process more. You can bake the cakes two days before, cover 
them tightly with plastic wrap, and refrigerate them until you need them. The caramel syrup 
and the browned butter can also be made ahead and stored in airtight jars in the refrigerator. 
To me, caramel is one of those sweet flavors that I never tire of; it’s right up there with choco -
late. Its concentrated richness has a slightly bitter edge that makes it almost savory.SERVES 10 TO 12
CARAMEL  
LAYER  CAKE  WITH  
BROWN BUTTER–CARAMEL  
FROSTING188  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
To make the frosting:  In a small, heavy-bottomed sauce -
pan, melt the butter over medium heat. Continue cooking, 
watching carefully to be sure the butter doesn’t burn, until 
brown specks form on the bottom of the pan. Remove from the 
heat and strain the melted butter through a fine-mesh sieve to 
remove any sediment. Let cool to room temperature.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, com -
bine the brown butter, powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt and 
mix on medium speed until combined. Reduce the speed to low, 
slowly pour in the cream and the cooled caramel syrup, and mix 
until smooth. If the frosting seems too thick, mix in another  
1 tbsp cream.
Place one cake layer, bottom-side up, on a cake stand or serving 
plate. Using an offset spatula, spread the top of the layer with 
frosting. Place a second cake layer, bottom-side up, on top of the 
first layer, and frost the top and then the sides with a thin layer 
of frosting, making sure to cover all the crumbs. Let the cake 
rest in a cool place until the frosting sets, 30 to 60 minutes. 
This is called a crumb coat and will help ensure that the final 
coat of frosting will go on smoothly and evenly.
Spread the remaining frosting over the top and sides of the 
cake. Cut into slices and serve at room temperature.
(To store any leftovers, press plastic wrap against the cut sur -
faces of the cake and top with a cake cover or a large bowl for up 
to 3 days.)SWEETS   189MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/240 ML
CARAMEL  SYRUP
In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the sugar and 1/2 cup/  
120 ml of the water over medium-high heat. When the sugar 
turns a deep amber color, carefully add the remaining 1 
cup/240 ml water. Continue cooking the caramel at a gentle 
boil until it thickens to a syrup-like consistency, about 15 min -
utes. Let cool to room temperature. (To make ahead, refrigerate 
for up to 1 month.)1 CUP/200 G sugar
1½ CUPS/355 ML water190  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter and flour two 9-in/  
23-cm round cake pans.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, 
sift together the flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, and salt. In a 
medium bowl, whisk the eggs, buttermilk, oil, food coloring, 
vinegar, and vanilla.
With the mixer on low speed, slowly pour the egg mixture into 
the flour mixture and beat until the batter becomes smooth and 
ribbon-like, scraping the bowl as needed.
Scrape the batter into the prepared pans and smooth on top. 
Bake until the sides pull way from the pan and a toothpick stuck 
into the centers of the cakes comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes.
Let the cakes cool in the pans on a wire rack for about 10 min -
utes. Invert the cakes onto the rack to let completely cool before 
frosting.
(To make ahead, cover the cakes tightly with plastic wrap, and 
refrigerate for up to 24 hours, or freeze for up to 2 weeks. If fro -
zen, thaw the layers before assembling the cake.)2½ CUPS/315 G all-purpose flour
1½ CUPS/300 G sugar
1 TBSP  natural cocoa powder
1 TSP  baking soda
1 TSP  kosher salt
2 eggs
1 CUP/240 ML buttermilk
1½ CUPS/360 ML canola oil
2 TBSP  red food coloring
1 TSP  distilled white vinegar
1 TSP  vanilla extract
CREAM CHEESE 
FROSTING
1 CUP/255 G unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
1 LB/455 G cream cheese, at 
room temperature
4 CUPS/400 G powdered sugar, 
sifted
1 TSP  vanilla extract
1 CUP/110 G coarsely chopped 
walnuts or pecans, toasted 
(optional, see page 75)We put this cake on the counter and start counting down: 5 slices left, 2 slices. It rarely lasts 
more than an hour. Soon there’s nothing left but a plate of red crumbs. I find that I need 
to perform quality control on this cake a little more than on others, constantly “testing” to 
make sure it’s just right. Okay, it’s a weakness. And this is a cake that always looks festive. 
One of my all-time favorites, this is the cake we served at our wedding. Did I mention that I 
love this cake?SERVES 8 TO 10
RED VELVET  
LAYER  CAKESWEETS   191To make the frosting:  Using a stand mixer fitted with the 
paddle attachment, combine the butter and cream cheese and 
mix on medium speed until combined. Reduce the speed to 
low, add the powdered sugar and vanilla, and beat until just 
combined. Continue mixing, gradually increasing the speed to 
medium-high, until the frosting is smooth.
Place one cake layer, bottom-side up, on a cake stand or serving 
plate. Using an offset spatula, spread the top of the layer with 
about one-third of the frosting. Place the second layer, bottom-  
side up, on top of the first layer, and spread the remaining frosting 
over the top and sides of the cake. Press the walnuts (if using) 
into the sides of the cake.
Refrigerate the cake until ready to serve.
(The cake is best served within 1 day of being baked. To store 
any leftovers, press plastic wrap against the cut surfaces of the 
cake and top with a cake cover or a large bowl and store for up 
to 2 days.)CHAPTER 7
DRINKSSweet tea, lemonade, cocktails spiked with bourbon and mint—these beverages are 
every bit as essential to the soul food kitchen as fried chicken and biscuits. At Brown Sugar Kitchen, as well as our restaurant B-Side, we offer guests freshly made, cooling drinks that honor my Southern heritage. What follows is a collection of some of my favorite libations—some are cool and refreshing, others comforting and warm; a few have alcohol, others do not. There are classic drinks included here and others that are my own invention.196  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENIn a large saucepan, bring the water to a boil. Remove from the 
heat and add the tea bags and mint. Steep for 30 minutes. Strain 
through a fine-mesh sieve into a pitcher or jar and stir in the 
agave syrup. Let cool to room temperature. Cover and refriger -
ate until cold, at least 2 hours or up to overnight. Serve in tall 
glasses over ice, and garnish with the reserved mint sprigs.3 QT/2.8 L water
8 black tea bags
1 bunch fresh mint, top sprigs 
reserved for garnish
½ CUP/120 ML agave syrup
Ice cubesSweet tea versus unsweetened tea—that’s a tough one. Many people who come to Brown 
Sugar Kitchen expect Southern-style super-sweet tea. They’re happily surprised by our 
lightly sweetened tea made with agave syrup. We brew the Calypso Mango black tea blend 
from local producer Mighty Leaf Tea from Marin County, just northwest of Oakland. Use any 
flavored black tea you like, such as Darjeeling or Earl Grey. Pick your favorite for this very 
simple recipe.SERVES 6 TO 8
PERFECTLY   
MINTED  
ICED TEADRINKS  197In a blender or food processor, process the mangoes until 
smooth. In a pitcher or jar, combine the sugar and lime juice, 
stirring until the sugar dissolves. Add the mango purée, lime 
zest, water, and ginger and stir until combined. Refrigerate 
until cold, at least 2 hours or up to overnight. Serve in tall 
glasses over ice, and garnish with lime wheels.2 ripe mangoes, peeled, pitted, 
and cut into chunks
1 CUP/200 G sugar
3 CUPS/720 ML fresh lime 
juice, 1 TSP  lime zest, plus lime 
wheels for garnish
1½ CUPS/360 ML water
1 TBSP  grated fresh ginger
Ice cubesThe tropical combination of mango, lime, and ginger is just the refresher I crave after a day 
of working in a hot kitchen. You can substitute any fruit you have on hand, such as straw -
berries, melons, or peeled peaches or nectarines. And on those evenings when you seek seri -
ous adult refreshment, try it with vodka, tequila, or rum.SERVES 6 TO 8
MANGO- GINGER  
LIMEADEPerfectly Minted Iced Tea
Ginger Beer
Strawberry LemonadeMango-Ginger LimeadeDRINKS  199To make the lemon sugar:  In a small bowl, combine the 
sugar and lemon zest. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an air -
tight container for up to 3 days.)
In a blender or food processor, combine the lemon sugar and 
strawberries and process until the sugar is dissolved and the 
berries are smooth. Transfer to a pitcher, and stir in the lemon 
juice and water. Cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 2 hours 
or up to overnight. Serve in tall glasses over ice, and garnish 
with lemon wedges.LEMON SUGAR
¾ CUP/150 G sugar
Zest of 2 large lemons
2 CUPS/580 G fresh or frozen 
strawberries, plus 4 to 6 for 
garnish
2 CUPS/480 ML fresh lemon 
juice, plus lemon wedges for 
garnish
4 CUPS/960 ML water
Ice cubesOne popular image of the American South includes neighbors spending long afternoons 
on the front porch sipping sweet iced tea and lemonade. From what I remember of my time 
spent in Louisiana and Virginia, that’s not far from the truth. At Brown Sugar Kitchen, we like 
to serve lemonade blended with fresh fruit—mango, blackberry, raspberry, and, of course, 
strawberry are just a few of our favorites. Shuna Lydon, a well-known pastry chef who has 
cooked all over the Bay Area and New York City, taught us the trick of mixing sugar with zest 
to make sugar that takes on a more intense lemon flavor.SERVES 6 TO 8
STRAWBERRY 
LEMONADE200  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENUsing a funnel, add the sugar, yeast, ginger, and lemon juice 
to a 2-qt/2-L plastic bottle. Add enough water to fill about 
one-quarter full, cap the bottle, and shake a couple of times 
to mix the ingredients. Add more water to fill the bottle, leav -
ing about 1 in/2.5 cm of empty space at the top. Cap tightly 
and store at room temperature until the soda is carbonated,  
1 to 2 days. Refrigerate at least 1 day or up to 1 month. Strain 
through a fine-mesh sieve into a pitcher. Serve in tall glasses 
over ice.1 CUP/200 G sugar
¼ TSP  active dry yeast
2 TBSP  grated fresh ginger
1 TBSP  fresh lemon juice
Ice cubesDon’t be intimidated by making ginger beer from scratch. It’s easier than you think and the 
results more than reward the effort. We use this in our Dark & Stormy cocktail (see facing 
page), but it’s also refreshing on its own poured over ice in a tall glass.MAKES 8 CUPS/2 L
GINGER   
BEERDRINKS  201Fill a tall glass with ice. Add the rum and lime juice, and stir. 
Top with the ginger beer and garnish with the lime wedge. Serve 
immediately.Ice cubes
¼ CUP/60 ML dark rum, such as 
Gosling’s Black Seal
2 TBSP  fresh lime juice
¼ CUP/60 ML Ginger Beer  
(facing page)
Lime wedge for garnishAn anomaly in the world of cocktails, the Dark & Stormy is actually a registered trademark 
that requires the use of Gosling’s Black Seal Bermuda Rum. We especially like it made with 
our own Ginger Beer. It’s a fun project that’s surprisingly easy. Use store-bought ginger beer, 
if you like, but don’t substitute ginger ale—it’s simply not the same.SERVES 1
DARK &  
STORMYDRINKS  203Combine the bourbon, mezcal, lemon juice, all three bitters, 
simple syrup, and ice in a cocktail shaker. Shake until the 
ingredients are well chilled, about 30 seconds. Strain into a 
martini glass and serve immediately.1½ OZ/45 ML bourbon, such as 
Buffalo Trace
½ OZ/15 ML mezcal
¾ OZ/22 .5 ML fresh lemon juice 
¼ OZ/7 .5 ML Gran Classico Bitter
2 DASHES  of Angostura 
aromatic bitters
2 DASHES  of Burlesque bitters
¾ OZ/22 .5 ML Vanilla Simple 
Syrup (page 204)
Ice cubesOur barbecue restaurant, B-Side, is named for the second side of a hit 45 record, the hit, of 
course, being Brown Sugar Kitchen. We’re fortunate that our sophomore effort has turned 
out to be a success as well. Of course, B also stands for bourbon and barbecue, both beloved 
in the South. It took some time for us to find the right flavors to embody all that we feel about 
B-Side, but this drink has it all. If you’re unfamiliar with some of the ingredients, the mezcal 
adds a touch of smokiness, the Gran Classico Bitter brings an herbaceous orange flavor, and 
the Burlesque lends a floral berry finish. It’s a unique combination—and tasting is believing.SERVES 1
THE B-SIDE204  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
MAKES ABOUT 11/2 CUPS/360 ML
V ANILLA  
SIMPLE SYRUP
In a small heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the water and 
sugar. Split the vanilla bean lengthwise, scrape the seeds into 
the pan, and then add the pod. Bring to a boil and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the sugar has completely dissolved, about 
2 minutes. Let cool completely and remove and discard pod 
before using, about 2 hours. (To make ahead, refrigerate in an 
airtight container for up to 1 month.)1 CUP/240 ML water
1 CUP/200 G sugar
1 vanilla beanDRINKS  205In a 1-gl/3.8-L jar, combine the brown sugar and brandy, stir -
ring to dissolve the sugar. Add the red wine and lemon and 
orange slices, and refrigerate overnight.
Before serving, stir in the triple sec. Serve in tall glasses, over 
ice, if desired, garnished with mint sprigs.1 CUP/200 G firmly packed light 
brown or raw sugar
½ CUP/120 ML brandy
THREE 750- ml bottles fruity red 
wine, such as Merlot
3 lemons, thinly sliced
3 oranges, thinly sliced
1/3 CUP/75 ML triple sec
Ice (optional)
Mint sprigs for garnishI love any recipe that takes ingredients that might otherwise go to waste and turns them into 
something delicious. This sangria is a perfect example of my waste-not-want-not ethos—
combine some extra wine that’s been open a little too long with fruit that’s edging toward 
overripe and balance it all with the caramel-like flavor of one of my favorite ingredients, 
brown sugar. Macerating the fruit overnight in sugar and brandy deepens the flavor and 
helps avoid sangria that tastes like fruit punch. Add the triple sec just before serving to bring 
the citrus flavors front and center.SERVES 8 TO 10
BROWN SUGAR  
SANGRIA206  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
Combine the gin, thyme syrup, lime juice, and ice in a cock -
tail shaker. Shake until the ingredients are well chilled, about  
30 seconds. Strain into a highball glass filled with ice  and top 
with the cucumber soda. Garnish with a thyme sprig to serve.2 OZ/60 ML gin
¾ OZ/22.5 ML Thyme Syrup 
(facing page)
4½ TSP  fresh lime juice
Ice cubes
12 OZ/360 ML cucumber soda, 
such as Dry Soda brand
Thyme sprig for garnishLong before Brown Sugar Kitchen opened its doors, the Cypress freeway ran though West 
Oakland, dividing the neighborhood in half. Homes were demolished to make way for the 
freeway, the traffic clogged the area with pollution, and some historians point to it as a factor 
in the neighborhood’s demise. In 1989, the freeway fell during the Loma Prieta earthquake. 
Many people were injured in the collapse and 43 others died, but out of that tragedy came 
West Oakland’s rebirth. Rather than rebuild the freeway, the residents successfully lobbied 
for a new thoroughfare. Today the Mandela Parkway is a neighborhood jewel that includes a 
14-acre meridian landscaped with native plants. Young families push strollers here, people 
walk their dogs, and kids ride bikes and skateboards. It’s a gathering spot for the community 
and I’m happy to say the address of Brown Sugar Kitchen. This cocktail, an herbaceous blend 
of gin, cucumber soda, and thyme, is my way of acknowledging West Oakland’s past and a 
toast to its bright future.SERVES 1
CYPRESS  
SLINGDRINKS  207MAKES ABOUT 11/2 CUPS/360 ML
THYME  SYRUP
In a small heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the water, sugar, 
and thyme. Bring to a boil and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
the sugar has completely dissolved, about 2 minutes. Strain 
though a fine-mesh sieve into a small jar and let cool completely 
before using, about 2 hours. (To make ahead, refrigerate for up 
to 1 month.)1 CUP/240 ML water
1 CUP/200 G sugar
Small bunch  fresh thyme208  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a cocktail shaker, use a muddler or the handle of a wooden 
spoon to crush the mint leaves. Add the sugar syrup, bourbon, 
lemon juice, and ice cubes. Shake to chill the ingredients, about 
30 seconds. Strain into a julep cup or a lowball glass filled with 
crushed ice . Garnish with the mint sprig. Serve immediately.8 fresh mint leaves, plus mint 
sprig for garnish
1 TBSP  Minted Brown Sugar 
Syrup (page 210)
1/3 CUP/75 ML bourbon, such as 
Four Roses
1½ TSP  fresh lemon juice
Ice cubes, plus crushed ice for 
servingI discovered mint juleps at the steeplechase races in Charlottesville, Virginia, when I was in 
college there. Though the races were more of an excuse to socialize than to actually watch 
the horses, I thought the juleps were a very elegant way to drink bourbon, especially when 
served in the traditional pewter cups. I’ve added citrus to bring a little California to this clas -
sic Southern cocktail. The name is a nod to our neighborhood in sweet West Oakland.SERVES 1
WESTSIDE  
JULEP210  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
MAKES ABOUT 11/2 CUPS/360 ML
MINTED  
BROWN SUGAR  
SYRUP
In a small heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the water, brown 
sugar, and mint. Bring to a boil and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the sugar has completely dissolved, about 2 minutes. 
Strain though a fine-mesh sieve into a small jar and let cool 
completely before using, about 2 hours. (To make ahead, refrig -
erate for up to 1 month.)1 CUP/240 ML water
1 CUP/200 G firmly packed 
brown sugar
Leaves from 1 bunch fresh 
mint, choppedSAMUEL 
FREDERICKS
OWNER, SAMUEL’S ART GALLERY
Lives:  West Oakland, since 2003
Regular order:  Cheese grits and eggs
I was living by Lake Merritt for many years, and my wife used 
to drive through West Oakland on her way from BART. She used to comment that the neighborhood felt like the South to her. It was her idea that we move here. Our home is an Oakland Landmark, an old Victorian known as the Hume-Wilcutt House.
I ﬁrst heard Tanya when she was interviewed on the radio 
before Brown Sugar Kitchen opened. She said that she was going to be making biscuits, so I wrote down the address. When  the restaurant opened, I came by and it’s been a love affair ever  since. Now we make it a point to eat here several times a month.
Brown Sugar Kitchen brings people to West Oakland who would  
otherwise never come here. It’s a joy to drive by the restaurant  on the weekends and see so many people waiting. More people  are discovering that this neighborhood is a little edgy, it’s afford-able, and it’s a great location that’s close to all the freeways.
Before I moved to California, I worked for IBM in upstate 
New York. Then I ended up out West working for musicians. Somewhere I got the notion that I was going to frame and sell African-American art. That was more than 30 years ago. The last quarter of the twentieth century was an important time for African-American art. The Cosby Show  put the Black art 
movement on steroids. It showed us the joy of living with our own art. The timing was perfect for me. I had the wind at my back. I was fortunate enough to see that a piece of art can lift you up. What surrounds you supports you.
212  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENPour boiling water into a 1 1/4-cup/300-ml mug and let stand 
until the mug is warmed, about 1 minute. Discard the water.
Add the rum, mezcal, and sugar syrup to the warmed mug and 
stir. Add the butter to the mug and then fill the mug with boiling 
water. Stir the mixture vigorously until the butter has melted. 
Serve immediately.Boiling water 
¼ CUP/60 ML dark rum, such as 
Gosling’s Black Seal
1½ TSP  mezcal
3 TBSP  Spiced Sugar Syrup 
(facing page)
1 TBSP  Smoked Butter  
(facing page)I first tasted hot buttered rum at a neighbor’s holiday party long before I was of legal drinking 
age. So warm and delicious, it is, for me, an essential part of the holiday season. Since we’re 
always looking for ways to take advantage of our smoker at B-Side BBQ, we decided to smoke 
the butter. That light hint of applewood and hickory turns out to be the ideal counterpoint for 
the sweetness of the rum.SERVES 1
SMOKED  
BUTTERED   
RUMDRINKS  213MAKES ABOUT 11/2 CUPS/360 ML
SPICED  
SUGAR SYRUP
In a heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the water, granulated 
sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon, star anise, vanilla, and nutmeg. 
Bring to a boil and cook until the sugars have completely dis -
solved, about 2 minutes. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into 
a small jar, and let cool completely before using, about 2 hours. 
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
1 month.)
MAKES 1/2 CUP/115 G
SMOKED BUTTER
Ignite a gas grill, or start a small fire in a charcoal grill. If using 
a gas grill, wrap wood chips in a piece of aluminum foil to create 
a package. Punch holes in the foil with a fork. Set the foil pack -
age on top of the grill grates. (If using a charcoal grill, place the 
wood chips directly on the charcoal.)
Put the butter in a small heatproof container and set the con -
tainer on the grill grates. Cover the grill, and allow the butter 
to smoke for about 15 minutes. Remove the container from the 
grill and pour the smoked butter into a small bowl. Refrigerate 
for at least 1 hour before using. (To make ahead, refrigerate in 
an airtight container for up to 30 days.)1 CUP/240 ML water
½ CUP/100 G granulated sugar
½ CUP/100 G firmly packed light 
brown sugar
1 cinnamon stick
1 star anise
1 TSP  vanilla extract
1/8 TSP  freshly grated nutmeg
½ CUP/115 G unsalted butter214  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
In a large saucepan, combine the water, sugar, bay leaves, car -
damom, cloves, cinnamon, peppercorns, star anise, fennel 
seeds, allspice, and cayenne. Bring to a boil, then add the gin -
ger, agave, and tea bags. Remove from the heat and let steep for  
2 minutes. Strain through a fine-mesh strainer into a pitcher. 
Serve warm in coffee mugs, or refrigerate for at least 4 hours 
and serve over ice in tall glasses.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
1 week. Reheat gently in a saucepan over medium heat.)8 CUPS/2 L water
½ CUP/100 G sugar
6 bay leaves, crushed
1 TBSP  cardamom pods, 
crushed
3 cloves
1 cinnamon stick, broken  
in half
¼ TSP  white peppercorns
1 star anise
½ TSP  fennel seeds
4 whole allspice
PINCH  of cayenne pepper
1½ TSP  grated fresh ginger
½ CUP/120 ML dark agave syrup
4 black tea bags, such as 
Ceylon or English Breakfast
Ice (optional)Making our own chai blend is easy and allows us to adjust the seasonings exactly to our 
tastes. We encourage you to do the same. While chai is traditionally made with milk, we find 
it doesn’t really need it, but do add milk if you like. A chai latte can be a wonderful thing. This 
is also delicious served chilled, over ice.SERVES 8 TO 10
CHAIDRINKS  215In a large saucepan, combine the milk, cream, sugar, and cinna -
mon. Split the vanilla bean in half lengthwise, scrape the seeds 
into the pan, and then add the pod. Bring to a boil, reduce to a 
simmer, and whisk in the chocolate and cocoa powder. Turn 
off heat and let stand for 15 minutes. Strain through a fine-
mesh sieve into a pitcher. Serve warm in mugs and top with 
marshmallows.
(To make ahead, refrigerate in an airtight container for up to  
1 week. Reheat gently in a saucepan over low heat until warm.)4 CUPS/960 ML whole milk
2 CUPS/480 ML heavy cream
¼ CUP/50 G sugar
1 cinnamon stick
1 vanilla bean
10 OZ/280 G bittersweet 
chocolate, coarsely chopped
¼ CUP/20 G unsweetened cocoa 
powder
Marshmallows or freshly 
whipped cream for garnishThis recipe, a rich blend of chocolate, cream, and milk, is one I learned to make at a café 
where I worked in Brooklyn, though it always reminds me of Paris. I spent many hours there 
“renting” a table at one of the local cafés, drinking chocolat chaud  and imagining the lives of 
writers, poets, painters, and perhaps even chefs that lingered in those cafés before me.SERVES 8
HOT 
CHOCOLATE218  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book wouldn’t have shaped into a viable 
story without my tireless book agent, Danielle 
Svetcov! Thank you, Danielle.
Thank you to the team at Chronicle Books, 
including Sarah Billingsley and Alice Chau, 
for your support and vision-sharing. Thank 
you to the entire staff for all of the BSK love 
you had long before I knocked on your door.
I would like to thank Jan Newberry for the 
countless hours of dedication she poured into 
this project. She immersed herself into my 
world and my community. She helped create 
what I hope will be viewed as a memento of my 
wonderful neighborhood, as well as a heartfelt 
cookbook.
Thank you to Jody Horton and Kate LeSueur for  
capturing the priceless and magical moments 
that happen at 2534 Mandela Parkway.
Thank you to Michael Chabon for not only 
being a dedicated BSK fan and choosing our 
little restaurant to host his Telegraph Avenue  
book launch party, but now for writing more 
beautiful words to introduce this book. Your 
foreword brought tears to our eyes. Free waf -
fles for life for you, Ayelet, and the kids!
Many thanks to the pioneering visionaries 
who are also invested in this neighborhood 
and Brown Sugar Kitchen: Merritt, Kathryn, 
Steve, Peter and Chrissy, Pat and Bev, Kathy, 
Elizabeth, Barry, and may Peter D. and Tif -
fanie K. rest in peace. And then there’s the constant supporters who are growing with us, 
including Ed, Jeremy, Joe, John, Letty, Sarah, 
and Rob. I can’t thank you enough!
And, yes, there’s a team of professionals who 
are also friends that I just can’t live without: 
my attorney, Jonathan; my publicist, Kristen; 
my make-up artist, Tricia; our “staff” photog -
rapher, Lisa; media coach extraordinaire, 
Paula; Michelle for wardrobe—you all know 
who you are. Thank you so much! 
I would like to thank the staff at both Brown 
Sugar Kitchen and B-Side BBQ. They are 
simply the best in the business. Especially 
Gemma, Rachel, Maria, Shaun, Nathan, 
Jeremy, Esme, Angel and Tarrence for your 
long-term commitment. You allowed me to 
carve out the precious chunks of time that this 
project demanded. These people are all spe -
cial, and you need to come in and tell them so!
I would like to thank my amazing customers, 
who are also the best in the business! Julia! 
Judy! Chela! Rob! Every day?! Alvin for your 
“waffle Wednesdays” and so many folks who 
I see every week that I only know as “2 pieces 
with a side of grits” or “hash/poached soft.” 
I feel your support and thank you so much! 
You are the reason Phil and I do what we do. 
We have the privilege of meeting such a wide 
cross-section of unique, kind, and hungry 
folks every day. We value this experience, and 
the opportunity to share with our customers.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS  219Samuel Fredericks is Oakland’s cultural war -
rior, art historian, our first regular customer, 
and was a dear friend. We will miss you. Rest 
in peace.
I would like to thank all my friends who sup -
port me, and put up with my ridiculous sched -
ule. Yes, we will go out for that drink . . . soon! 
Especially Linda, David, and Shiree!
I’m so grateful that I was able to get to know 
my grandmothers who both passed shortly 
after my 35th birthday. I had quite a bit of 
wonderful time with them. They gave me a  
lot of love and transferred a lot of joy from 
their kitchens to mine. 
Thank you to my mom and dad, Annette and 
Hollis Holland. You bought me my first Easy-
Bake oven and “got the party started.” And I’ll 
always cherish my mini kitchen in the garage 
that you know I was obsessed with! Thank you 
for organizing your diverse “Gourmet Club” 
when I was a young, impressionable child. You  
exposed me to so many different types of cuisine.  
Food has become my passion, and I am forever 
grateful for your open-mindedness. 
Thank you to my sister, Janelle, for tasting all 
of my concoctions along the way and for your 
unconditional support and love in my absence 
from home, and for your sweet baby daughter 
(my baby niece and goddaughter), Lyric. You 
both are my girls, and I love you dearly.Thank you Surkises. First, to the late Deborah 
Surkis who accepted me as her daughter-in-law  
and requested my ribs at her 75th birthday 
celebration. Thank you to my sisters-in-law  
Alisa, Colleen, and Elaine, and to my brother-  
in-law, Dan. I know that I can always count on 
you for support, and maybe even some recipe 
testing, too. Thank to Julia, Claire, Ella, and 
Zelda for being wonderful nieces. You are all 
so sweet and talented.
Thank you to the icons Leah Chase, Anne 
Willan, Martha Stewart, and Julia Child. I’ve 
been lucky enough to meet you all and hope to 
make you proud. Thank you to the many chefs 
and restaurateurs who have inspired me for 
years, who have been my role models.
Thank you to the city of Oakland. I didn’t antic -
ipate that you would become such a prominent 
figure in my life. You got under my skin, and I 
fell in love. You support me in such a way that  
I feel that I have truly found my home.
Finally, I must say thank you to my love, my 
husband, Phil. He knows the Brown Sugar 
Kitchen story better than anyone. He supports 
me and our restaurants in so many ways. 
When I first met him many years ago, I told 
him I was going to open a restaurant. He didn’t 
run away. In fact, he embraced the idea, and 
encouraged me to follow my passion. 
Love to all and always cook with soul!220  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN 220  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
INDEX
A
Aïoli, Spicy Lime, 127
American Steel Studios, 130
Andouille Gougères, 71–72
Apples
Apple Bundt Cake with Brown 
Sugar Glaze, 182
Apple Cider Syrup, 30
Spiced Winter Squash Soup, 
114 –15
Spinach Salad with Roasted 
Apple Dressing, Toasted 
Pecans & Goat Cheese, 75
Virginia Ham & Fried Apple 
Croque-Monsieur, 44–45
Apricots
North African Spiced Beef 
Short Ribs, 142
Arie, India, 158
B
Bacon
Bacon-Cheddar–Green Onion 
Biscuits, 33
BBQ Baked Beans, 101
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Bananas
Banana-Buckwheat Griddle 
Cakes, 34
Caramelized Banana Pudding, 
165 –67
Bars, Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan, 
173
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
Beans
BBQ Baked Beans, 101
Black-Eyed Pea Salad, 79
Burnt Ends Chili, 117
Roasted Green Beans with 
Sesame-Seed Dressing, 91
Summer Squash Succotash, 93
Béchamel Sauce, 44
Beef
Blackened Steak au Poivre, 144
Burnt Ends Chili, 117
Creole Meatloaf, 145
North African Spiced Beef 
Short Ribs, 142
Beignets with Chocolate-Chicory 
Sauce, 169 –71Bell peppers
Okra Peperonata, 94
Roasted Red Pepper Sauce, 152
Benezra, Lauren, 39
Biscuits, Bacon-Cheddar–Green 
Onion, 33
Blackening Spice, 144
Black-eyed peas
Black-Eyed Pea Salad, 79
Summer Squash Succotash, 93
Bourbon
Bourbon & Chili–Glazed 
Salmon, 153
Bourbon-Hazelnut Truffles, 
164
The B-Side, 203
Westside Julep, 208
Brown, Kofy, 160
Brown sugar
Brown Sugar Icing, 39–40
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
Minted Brown Sugar Syrup, 210
Brown Sugar Kitchen
customers of, 24–25, 83, 107 , 
118 –19, 157 , 160 –61, 183 , 211
local ingredients and, 24, 62, 64
location of, 23
opening of, 23–24
popularity of, 24
typical day at, 20, 22
The B-Side (drink), 203
B-Side BBQ, 68, 84, 100 , 101 , 123 , 
155 , 195 , 203 , 212
Buckwheat Griddle Cakes,  
Banana-, 34
Buns, Sticky, 41–43
Butter, Smoked, 213
C
Cabbage
Spicy Green Coleslaw, 82
Café du Monde, 169
Cakes
Apple Bundt Cake with Brown 
Sugar Glaze, 182
Caramel Layer Cake with 
Brown Butter–Caramel 
Frosting, 186 –88
Pineapple Upside-Down Cake, 
184 –85
Red Velvet Layer Cake, 190 –91
Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt 
Cake, 181Caramel
Caramel Layer Cake with 
Brown Butter–Caramel 
Frosting, 186 –88
Caramel Syrup, 189
Caribbean Lobster Roll, 126
Catfish, Blackened, 151
Chai, 214
Cheese
Andouille Gougères, 71–72
Bacon-Cheddar–Green Onion 
Biscuits, 33
The BSK Breakfast Tart, 35–37
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Cream Cheese Frosting, 190 –91
Herbed Mushroom Spoon  
Bread, 105
Macaroni & Cheese, 103
Spinach Salad with Roasted 
Apple Dressing, Toasted 
Pecans & Goat Cheese, 75
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Vidalia Onion Soup with 
Cornbread Croutons, 116
Virginia Ham & Fried Apple 
Croque-Monsieur, 44–45
White Cheddar Grits, 54
Chicken
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Buttermilk Fried Chicken, 137
Chicken-Apple Sausage 
Cornbread Pudding, 60
Dirty Rice, 102
Shrimp & Chicken Gumbo, 147
Spicy Baked Wings, 68
Chiles
Green Chile–Harissa Potato 
Gratin, 96–97
Green Harissa, 96
Habanero Vinegar, 138
Jerk Marinade, 138
Pickled Vegetables, 129
Pineapple Salsa, 138 , 140
Chili, Burnt Ends, 117
Chocolate
Beignets with Chocolate-
Chicory Sauce, 169 –71
Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan 
Bars, 173
Bourbon-Hazelnut Truffles, 164
Hot Chocolate, 215
Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt 
Cake, 181
Cinnamon Sugar, 43INDEX  221
City Slicker Farms, 62, 64
Clams
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
Cobbler, Peach & Nectarine, 175
Coconut
Coconut Chess Tart, 176
Nutty Granola, 61
Coleslaw, Spicy Green, 82
Collard Greens, Simply Sautéed, 92
Cookies, Crunchy Peanut Butter, 172
Copeland, Stewart, 24
Corn
Buttermilk Cornbread, 106
Summer Squash Succotash, 93
Cornbread
Buttermilk Cornbread, 106
Buttermilk Cornbread  
Pudding, 168
Chicken-Apple Sausage 
Cornbread Pudding, 60
Cornbread Croutons, 74, 116
Cox, Bruce, 183
Crandell, Jeremy, 132
Cream Cheese Frosting, 190 –91
Creole Gazpacho, 113
Creole Hollandaise, 47, 49
Creole Meatloaf, 145
Creole Sauce, 54
Creole Shrimp & Grits, 53
Creole Spice Mix, 51
Croque-Monsieur, Virginia Ham 
& Fried Apple, 44–45
Croutons, Cornbread, 74, 116
The Crucible, 130
Cucumbers
Creole Gazpacho, 113
Cucumber-Buttermilk 
Dressing, 77
Cunningham, Marion, 30
Curiel, Cynthia, 83
Cusolito, Karen, 130
Cypress Sling, 206
D
Dark & Stormy, 201
Desserts
Apple Bundt Cake with Brown 
Sugar Glaze, 182
Beignets with Chocolate-
Chicory Sauce, 169 –71
Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan 
Bars, 173
Bourbon-Hazelnut Truffles, 164
Buttermilk Cornbread  
Pudding, 168
Caramelized Banana Pudding, 
165 –67Caramel Layer Cake with 
Brown Butter–Caramel 
Frosting, 186 –88
Coconut Chess Tart, 176
Crunchy Peanut Butter  
Cookies, 172
Down-Home Sweet Potato Pie, 
177 –79
Peach & Nectarine Cobbler, 175
Pineapple Upside-Down Cake, 
184 –85
Red Velvet Layer Cake, 190 –91
Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt 
Cake, 181
Destiny’s Child, 158
Dirty Rice, 102
Discoe, Paul, 118
Drinks
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
The B-Side, 203
Chai, 214
Cypress Sling, 206
Dark & Stormy, 201
Ginger Beer, 200
Hot Chocolate, 215
Mango-Ginger Limeade, 197
Perfect Minted Iced Tea, 196
Smoked Buttered Rum, 212
Strawberry Lemonade, 199
Westside Julep, 208
E
Eggplant
B-Side BBQ Braised Smoked 
Tofu with Roasted  
Eggplant, 155
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Eggs
The BSK Breakfast Tart, 35–37
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Grits Cakes Benedict, 47–50
Smoked Pork Hash, 57
F
Farnsworth, Era and Don, 118
Fish
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
Blackened Catfish, 151
Bourbon & Chili–Glazed 
Salmon, 153
Five-Ton Crane, 132
Foxx, Jamie, 158
Franklin, Aretha, 158
Fredericks, Samuel, 211
Frostings
Brown Butter–Caramel 
Frosting, 186 –88
Cream Cheese Frosting, 190 –91G
Gazpacho, Creole, 113
Gin
Cypress Sling, 206
Ginger Beer, 200
Dark & Stormy, 201
Gold, Jonathan, 30
Gougères, Andouille, 71–72
Granola, Nutty, 61
Green, Andrew, 62
Greens. See also  individual greens
Mixed Greens with Roasted 
Tomato & Thyme 
Vinaigrette, 74
Simply Sautéed Collard  
Greens, 92
Grits
Creole Shrimp & Grits, 53
Grits Cakes Benedict, 47–50
White Cheddar Grits, 54
Gumbo, Shrimp & Chicken, 147
H
Habanero Vinegar, 138
Ham
BBQ Baked Beans, 101
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Grits Cakes Benedict, 47–50
Virginia Ham & Fried Apple 
Croque-Monsieur, 44–45
Harissa, Green, 96
Hash
Smoked Pork Hash, 57
Sweet Potato–Kale Hash, 55
Hazelnuts
Bourbon-Hazelnut Truffles, 164
toasting, 75
Hobbs, Tracy, 119
Hodo Soy Beanery, 155
Holiday, Billie, 158
Hollandaise, Creole, 47–49
Howard, Mildred, 107
I 
Icing, Brown Sugar, 39–40
J
Jerk
Jerk Baby Back Ribs with 
Pineapple Salsa, 138 –41
Jerk Marinade, 138
Jerk Spice Rub, 138 , 140222  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN 222  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHENK
Kale Hash, Sweet Potato–, 55
Kinetic Steam Works, 119 , 130
Kump, Peter, 144 , 164
L
Ledisi, 24
Lemons
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
The B-Side, 203
Lemon Sugar, 199
Strawberry Lemonade, 199
Lenahan, Dorothy, 118
Lettuce
Little Gems & Shrimp Salad 
with Thousand Island 
Dressing, 80
Romaine Salad with Spring 
Vegetables & Cucumber-
Buttermilk Dressing, 77
Limes
Cypress Sling, 206
Mango-Ginger Limeade, 197
Spicy Lime Aïoli, 127
Lobster Roll, Caribbean, 126
Local ingredients, 24, 62, 64
Lucchesi, Al, 158 , 161
Lydon, Shuna, 199
M
Macaroni & Cheese, 103
Mango-Ginger Limeade, 197
Marinade, Jerk, 138
Meatloaf, Creole, 145
Mezcal
The B-Side, 203
Smoked Buttered Rum, 212
Mighty Leaf Tea, 196
Miller, Bryan, 89
Mint
Minted Brown Sugar Syrup, 210
Perfect Minted Iced Tea, 196
Westside Julep, 208
Molasses BBQ Sauce, 156
Muffuletta, Vegetarian, 120 –21
Mushrooms
The BSK Breakfast Tart, 35–37
Herbed Mushroom Spoon  
Bread, 105
Mussels
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49N
Nectarine & Peach Cobbler, 175
North African Spiced Beef Short 
Ribs, 142
Nuts. See also  individual nuts
Nutty Granola, 61
toasting, 75
O
Oats
Nutty Granola, 61
Okra
Cornmeal-Coated Okra Bites, 73
Okra Peperonata, 94
Shrimp & Chicken Gumbo, 147
Olives
Olive Salad, 120
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Onion Soup, Vidalia, with 
Cornbread Croutons, 116
Oranges
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
Oyster Po’Boy, Fried, 125
P
Pancakes
Banana-Buckwheat Griddle 
Cakes, 34
Peach & Nectarine Cobbler, 175
Peanut Butter Cookies, Crunchy, 172
Pecans
Black-Bottom Maple-Pecan 
Bars, 173
Nutty Granola, 61
Red Velvet Layer Cake, 190 –91
Spinach Salad with Roasted 
Apple Dressing, Toasted 
Pecans & Goat Cheese, 75
Sticky Buns, 41–43
toasting, 75
Pie, Down-Home Sweet Potato, 
177 –79
Pineapple
Pineapple Glaze, 138
Pineapple Salsa, 138 , 140
Pineapple Upside-Down Cake, 
184 –85
Po’Boy, Fried Oyster, 125
Pork. See also  Bacon; Ham; 
Sausage
BBQ Baked Beans, 101
BBQ Pulled-Pork Sandwich, 123
Burnt Ends Chili, 117
Jerk Baby Back Ribs with 
Pineapple Salsa, 138 –41
Smoked Pork Hash, 57Potatoes
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
BSK Breakfast Potatoes, 58
Green Chile–Harissa Potato 
Gratin, 96–97
Picnic-Worthy Potato Salad, 81
Smoked Pork Hash, 57
Puddings
Buttermilk Cornbread 
Pudding, 168
Caramelized Banana Pudding, 
165 –67
Chicken-Apple Sausage 
Cornbread Pudding, 60
R
Rademaker, Stephen, 119
Ras el Hanout, 142 , 143
Red Velvet Layer Cake, 190 –91
Ribs
Jerk Baby Back Ribs with 
Pineapple Salsa, 138 –41
North African Spiced Beef 
Short Ribs, 142
Rice, Dirty, 102
Riley, Boots, 157 , 158
RoastCo, 62
Roberts, Alex, 62
Rum
Dark & Stormy, 201
Smoked Buttered Rum, 212
S
St. Louise Studios, 132
Salad dressings
Cucumber-Buttermilk  
Dressing, 77
Roasted Apple Dressing, 75
Roasted Tomato & Thyme 
Vinaigrette, 74
Thousand Island Dressing, 80
Salads
Black-Eyed Pea Salad, 79
Little Gems & Shrimp Salad 
with Thousand Island 
Dressing, 80
Mixed Greens with Roasted 
Tomato & Thyme 
Vinaigrette, 74
Olive Salad, 120
Picnic-Worthy Potato Salad, 81
Romaine Salad with Spring 
Vegetables & Cucumber-
Buttermilk Dressing, 77
Spicy Green Coleslaw, 82
Spinach Salad with Roasted 
Apple Dressing, Toasted 
Pecans & Goat Cheese, 75INDEX  223
Salmon, Bourbon & Chili–Glazed, 
153
Salsas. See  Sauces and salsas
Sandwiches
BBQ Pulled-Pork Sandwich, 123
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Caribbean Lobster Roll, 126
Fried Oyster Po’Boy, 125
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Virginia Ham & Fried Apple 
Croque-Monsieur, 44–45
Sangria, Brown Sugar, 205
Sauces and salsas
Barbecue Sauce, 123
Béchamel Sauce, 44
Chocolate-Chicory Sauce, 169
Creole Hollandaise, 47, 49
Creole Sauce, 54
Molasses BBQ Sauce, 156
Pineapple Salsa, 138 , 140
Roasted Red Pepper Sauce, 152
Spicy Lime Aïoli, 127
Sausage
Andouille Gougères, 71–72
The BSK Egg Sandwich, 46
Chicken-Apple Sausage 
Cornbread Pudding, 60
Dirty Rice, 102
Scones, Sweet Potato, with Brown 
Sugar Icing, 39–40
Shaffer, Marilee and Steve, 64
Shakur, Tupac, 158
Shaw, Amy, 57
Shrimp
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
Creole Shrimp & Grits, 53
Little Gems & Shrimp Salad 
with Thousand Island 
Dressing, 80
Pickled Shrimp Crudité, 128
Shrimp & Chicken Gumbo, 147
Soundwave Studios, 158 , 161
Soups
Creole Gazpacho, 113
Spiced Winter Squash Soup, 
114 –15
Vidalia Onion Soup with 
Cornbread Croutons, 116
Spices
Blackening Spice, 144
Creole Spice Mix, 51
Jerk Spice Rub, 138 , 140
Ras el Hanout, 142 , 143
toasting, 75
Spinach
The BSK Breakfast Tart, 35–37
Creole Shrimp & Grits, 53
Smoked Pork Hash, 57Spinach Salad with Roasted 
Apple Dressing, Toasted 
Pecans & Goat Cheese, 75
Spoon Bread, Herbed Mushroom, 105
Squash
Spiced Winter Squash Soup, 
114 –15
Summer Squash Succotash, 93
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Sticky Buns, 41–43
Strawberry Lemonade, 199
Succotash, Summer Squash, 93
Sugar
Cinnamon Sugar, 43
Lemon Sugar, 199
Surkis, Phil, 84
Sweet potatoes
Baked Sweet Potato Wedges, 99
Down-Home Sweet Potato Pie, 
177 –79
Smoked Mashed Sweet  
Potatoes, 100
Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt 
Cake, 181
Sweet Potato–Kale Hash, 55
Sweet Potato Scones with 
Brown Sugar Icing, 39–40
Syrups
Apple Cider Syrup, 30
Caramel Syrup, 189
Minted Brown Sugar Syrup, 210
Spiced Sugar Syrup, 213
Thyme Syrup, 207
Vanilla Simple Syrup, 204
T
Taj Mahal, 24
Tarts
The BSK Breakfast Tart, 35–37
Coconut Chess Tart, 176
Tart Crust, 176
Tea
Chai, 214
Perfect Minted Iced Tea, 196
Testament, 158
Third Eye Blind, 158
Thornton, Big Mama, 158
Thousand Island Dressing, 80
Thyme Syrup, 207
Tofu, B-Side BBQ Braised Smoked, 
with Roasted Eggplant, 155
Tomatoes
Bayoubaisse, 148 –49
BBQ Baked Beans, 101
Burnt Ends Chili, 117
Creole Gazpacho, 113
Molasses BBQ Sauce, 156Okra Peperonata, 94
Roasted Tomato & Thyme 
Vinaigrette, 74
Tony! Toni! Toné!, 158
Triple sec
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
Truffles, Bourbon-Hazelnut, 164
U
Urban Legend, 64
V
Vanilla
Vanilla Simple Syrup, 204
Vanilla Wafers, 165
Vegetables. See also  individual 
vegetables
Pickled Vegetables, 129
Romaine Salad with Spring 
Vegetables & Cucumber-
Buttermilk Dressing, 77
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21
Vinaigrettes. See  Salad dressings
Vinegar, Habanero, 138
W
Wafers, Vanilla, 165
Waffles, Cornmeal, with Apple 
Cider Syrup, 30–32
Wa lnuts
Apple Bundt Cake with Brown 
Sugar Glaze, 182
Red Velvet Layer Cake, 190 –91
toasting, 75
West Oakland
industrial arts corridor of, 130 , 
132
local ingredients from, 24, 62, 
64
music in, 158
rebirth of, 206
Westside Julep, 208
Wiggins, D’wayne, 158
Wine, 64
Brown Sugar Sangria, 205
Wolfert, Paula, 96
Worden, Dave, 24
Z
Zucchini
Summer Squash Succotash, 93
Vegetarian Muffuletta, 120 –21224  BROWN  SUGAR KITCHEN
ABOUT THE 
AUTHORS
Tanya Holland  is the executive chef and owner of Brown Sugar Kitchen and B-Side BBQ in 
West Oakland, CA.
Jan Newberry  is a food writer and former San Francisco Magazine  food and wine editor 
based in Oakland, CA.
Michael Chabon  is the Pulitzer Prize–winning author of more than 14 novels, novellas, 
and essay and short story collections, including The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay ,        
Telegraph Avenue , and The Mysteries of Pittsburgh . He lives in Berkeley, CA.
Jody Horton  is a food photographer based in Austin, TX.
Chronicle Books  publishes distinctive books and gifts. From award-winning children’s titles, bestselling  
cookbooks, and eclectic pop culture to acclaimed works of art and design, stationery, and journals, we craft 
publishing that’s instantly recognizable for its spirit and creativity. Enjoy our publishing and become part of 
our community at www.chroniclebooks.com.Want More
Chronicle Ebooks?
CLICKHERE!
Get
Freebies,
discounts,
and more!