11THE METHODS
Cake balls are bite-size balls made of crumbled cake mixed with 
frosting and covered in candy coating. They are super-easy to 
make and form the basis of endless variations of decorated cake 
pops, cupcake pops, and cake bites. 
MAKES 48 CAKE BALLS
YOU’LL NEED
18.25-ounce box cake mix
9-by-13-inch cake pan Large mixing bowl  16-ounce container ready-made frostingLarge metal spoonWax paper2 baking sheetsPlastic wrap32 ounces (2 pounds) candy coating Deep, microwave-safe plastic bowl T oothpicks Resealable plastic bag or squeeze bottle (optional)
Bake the cake as directed on the box, using a 9-by-13-inch cake pan. 
Let cool completely.
Once the cake is cooled, get organized and set aside plenty of time 
(at least an hour) to crumble, roll, and dip 4 dozen cake balls.
Crumble the cooled cake into a large mixing bowl. See “Crumbling 
Y our Cake” on page 30. Y ou should not see any large pieces of cake.Add three-quarters of the container of frosting. (Y ou will not need 
the remaining frosting.) Mix it into the crumbled cake, using the back 
of a large metal spoon, until thoroughly combined. If you use the entire container, the cake balls will be too moist. 
The mixture should be moist enough to roll into 1
1⁄2-inch balls and still 
hold a round shape. After rolling the cake balls by hand, place them 
on a wax paper–covered baking sheet.  
Cover with plastic wrap and chill for several hours in the refrigerator, 
or place in the freezer for about 15 minutes. Y ou want the balls to be 
ﬁ rm but not frozen. 
If you’re making a project that calls for uncoated cake balls, 
stop here and proceed to decorate the cake balls, following the project instructions.Basic Cake Balls
(continued)
The first time I tried a cake 
ball was at a Christmas party in 2007.
 The appearance of the balls 
was deceptive—they looked like peanut butter balls—and I almost passed them by. But then I was told they weren’t 
peanut butter balls at all, but cake 
balls. Well, the name alone sent me straight over to investigate. And I’m so glad I did, because they have been a featured sweet at many family get-togethers since and the basis for my cake-pop craze.12CAKE POPS
Place the candy coating in a deep, microwave-safe plastic bowl. 
These bowls make it easier to cover the cake balls completely with 
candy coating while holding the bowl without burning your ﬁ  ngers. 
(I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
Melt the candy coating, following the instructions on the package. 
Microwave on medium power for 30 seconds at a time, stirring with 
a spoon in between. Y ou can also use a double boiler. Either way, make sure you do not overheat the coating. See “Candy Coating Basics,” page 32, for more on working with candy coating. 
Now you’re ready to coat. Take a few cake balls at a time out of the 
refrigerator or freezer to work with. If they’re in the freezer, transfer the rest of the balls to the refrigerator at this point, so they stay ﬁ  rm 
but do not freeze.
Place one ball at a time into the bowl of candy coating. Spoon extra 
coating over any uncoated areas of the cake ball to make sure it is 
completely covered in candy coating. Then lift out the cake ball with 
your spoon. Avoid stirring it in the coating, because cake crumbs can fall oﬀ   into the coating. 
Holding the spoon over the bowl, tap the handle of the spoon sev-
eral times on the edge of the bowl until the excess coating falls oﬀ   
and back into the bowl. This technique also creates a smooth surface on the outside of the cake ball.
T ransfer the coated cake ball to the second wax paper–covered bak-
ing sheet to dry. Let the coated cake ball slide right oﬀ   the spoon. 
Some coating may pool around the base of the ball onto the wax paper. If so, simply take a toothpick and use it to draw a line around 
the base of the cake ball before the coating sets. Once the coating 
sets, you can break oﬀ   any unwanted coating.Repeat with the remaining cake balls and let dry completely. 
If you have extra candy coating left over, pour it into a resealable 
plastic bag (and then snip oﬀ   the corner) or into a squeeze bottle 
and drizzle it over the tops in a zigzag motion to decorate.
Y ou can make the cake balls ahead of time and store them in an air-
tight container on the counter or in the refrigerator for several days. 
TipsTips
•  The cake balls will be easier to roll if you wash and dry your 
hands periodically during the rolling process. Dry your hands 
completely each time, and make sure you don’t get water in 
the candy coating, as that can make it unusable. 
•  Y ou can use a mini ice-cream scoop to get uniform-size 
cake balls. 
•  If you don’t need or want to make 48 cake balls, simply 
divide the cake in half for 24 cake balls or in quarters for 
12 and freeze the remaining cake for later use. Remember 
to reduce the amount of frosting proportionally. It took me a while before I realized 
that candy coating came in various colors and ﬂ  avors.
 One day I stumbled 
across pink candy coating at a craft store, and that’s when everything changed. My eyes opened to the possibilit ies. I thought how 
cute it would be to turn cake balls into cake 
lollipops . . . or cake pops for short. The cake pops in this photo are the ﬁ  rst ones I ever 
attempted. I had no idea at the time that they would inspire a cake pop sensation.15THE METHODS
Cake pops are based on the same idea as cake balls, with the 
addition of a lollipop stick and a diﬀ  erent approach to dipping. 
The lollipop sticks increase the cuteness factor, making them 
perfect for party favors and gifts.
MAKES  48 CAKE POPS
YOU’LL NEED 
18.25-ounce box cake mix 
9-by-13-inch cake panLarge mixing bowl 16-ounce container ready-made frosting Large metal spoonWax paper2 baking sheetsPlastic wrap48 ounces (3 pounds) candy coating Deep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks Styrofoam block (see page 41)
Bake the cake as directed on the box, using a 9-by-13-inch cake pan. 
Let cool completely.
Once the cake is cooled, get organized and set aside plenty of time 
(a couple of hours) to crumble, roll, and dip 4 dozen cake pops.
Crumble the cooled cake into a large mixing bowl. See “Crumbling 
Y our Cake” on page 30. Y ou should not see any large pieces of cake.Add three-quarters of the container of frosting. (Y ou will not need 
the remaining frosting.) Mix it into the crumbled cake, using the back 
of a large metal spoon, until thoroughly combined. If you use the entire container, the cake balls will be too moist. 
The mixture should be moist enough to roll into 1
1⁄2-inch balls and still 
hold a round shape. After rolling the cake balls by hand, place them 
on wax paper–covered baking sheets. 
Cover with plastic wrap and chill for several hours in the refrigerator, 
or place in the freezer for about 15 minutes. Y ou want the balls to be 
ﬁ rm but not frozen.
Place the candy coating in a deep, microwave-safe plastic bowl. 
These bowls make it easier to cover the cake balls completely with candy coating while holding the bowl without burning your ﬁ  ngers. 
(I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
Melt the candy coating, following the instructions on the package. 
Microwave on medium power for 30 seconds at a time, stirring with 
a spoon in between. Y ou can also use a double boiler. Either way, 
make sure you do not overheat the coating. See “Candy Coating Basics,” page 32, for more on working with candy coating.
Now you’re ready to dip. Take a few cake balls at a time out of the 
refrigerator or freezer to work with. If they’re in the freezer, transfer the rest of the balls to the refrigerator at this point, so they stay ﬁ  rm 
but do not freeze.
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and then insert the lollipop stick straight into 
a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Basic Cake Pops
(continued)16CAKE POPS
Holding the lollipop stick with cake ball attached, dip the entire cake 
ball into the melted candy coating until it is completely covered, 
and remove it in one motion. Make sure the coating meets at the 
base of the lollipop stick. This helps secure the cake ball to the stick when the coating sets. The object is to completely cover the cake 
ball and remove it without submerging it in the coating more than 
once. A small, deep plastic bowl is very helpful during this step. If you do resubmerge the cake pop, the weight of the candy coating can pull on the cake ball and cause it to get stuck in the coating.
The thinner the consistency of your coating, the easier it will be to 
coat the cake pops. If you ﬁ  nd that your coating is too thick, add 
some shortening or paramount crystals (see page 40) to help thin 
it and make the coating more ﬂ  uid. 
When you remove the cake pop from the candy coating, some 
excess coating may start to drip. Hold the cake pop in one hand and 
use the other hand to gently tap the ﬁ  rst wrist. Rotate the lollipop 
stick if necessary to allow the excess coating to fall oﬀ   evenly, so 
one side doesn’t get heavier than the other. If you didn’t completely dunk the cake pop, this method of tapping and rotating generally 
takes care of that. The coating will slowly slide down the surface of 
the cake ball until it reaches the lollipop stick. 
If too much coating surrounds the base of the lollipop stick, you can 
wipe the excess oﬀ   with your ﬁ  nger. Simply place your ﬁ  nger on the 
stick right under the cake ball and spin the lollipop stick, allowing any excess coating to fall oﬀ   and back into the bowl of coating. When 
most of the excess coating has fallen oﬀ   and it is no longer dripping, 
stick the cake pop into the prepared Styrofoam block (see Tips). 
Repeat with the remaining cake balls and let dry completely.Store the cake pops in an airtight container on the counter or in the 
refrigerator for several days. Y ou can also cover them in small treat bags, tied with a ribbon, and leave them in the Styrofoam block on the counter. TipsTips
•  Make the cake the day before and let it cool overnight.
•  Use a toothpick to encourage the coating to cover any small 
exposed areas or to make sure it surrounds the lollipop stick. 
•  Make sure the cake balls are chilled and ﬁ  rm when you dip 
them. If they are room temperature, they are likely to fall oﬀ   
the lollipop sticks into the melted candy coating. Y ou can 
always place them back in the freezer for a few minutes to quickly ﬁ  rm them up again.
•  Poke holes in the Styrofoam block before you start dipping 
the pops. Just use one of the lollipop sticks to make holes 
about 2 inches apart.
•  For fun, experiment with diﬀ  erent colors of candy coating.
•  Cake pops need more attention and therefore a little more 
time to complete than the cake balls. Set aside a couple 
of hours. 
•  When using the cake pop method, you can also make the 
balls in diﬀ  erent shapes. Just roll them into balls, place in 
the freezer or refrigerator to ﬁ  rm, and then mold into your 
desired shape.THE METHODS 19
Not only can you make cake balls and turn them into cake pops, 
but you can also mold them into other shapes using a small metal 
cookie cutter. For these cupcake pops, use a ﬂ  ower-shaped cookie 
cutter. T ake them to the next level of cuteness by using more than one color of candy coating and adding sprinkles and candy 
for decoration. 
MAKES 48 CUPCAKE POPS
YOU’LL NEED
18.25-ounce box cake mix 
9-by-13-inch cake pan Large mixing bowl16-ounce container ready-made frosting Large metal spoon Wax paper2 baking sheetsPlastic wrapFlower-shaped cookie cutter (
11⁄4     inches wide by 3⁄4  inch deep)
32 ounces (2 pounds) chocolate candy coating 2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsDish towel48 paper lollipop sticks 16 ounces pink candy coatingT oothpicksM&M’s or similarly shaped candySprinklesStyrofoam block (see page 41)Bake the cake as directed on the box, using a 9-by-13-inch cake pan. 
Let cool completely.
Once the cake is cooled, get organized and set aside plenty of time 
(a few hours) to crumble, roll, shape, dip, and decorate 4 dozen cupcake pops.
Crumble the cooled cake into a large bowl. See “Crumbling Y our 
Cake” on page 30. Y ou should not see any large pieces of cake.Basic Cupcake Pops 
(continued)
After I discovered that candy 
coatings came in so many colors, I was eager to experiment. 
The cake pops are cute, but I wanted 
to make them even cuter. T urning them into cupcakes was the obvious next step for me. One day an idea came in 
the form of a cookie cutter I had lying 
around the kitchen, and I developed this little technique for shaped cakes that I call cupcake pops. The response was overwhelming, from an invitation to appear on The Martha Stewart Show  
to the many messages from the won-
derfully sweet readers of Bakerella.com who shared their excitement of learning to make these treats. 20CAKE POPS
Add three-quarters of the container of frosting. (Y ou will not need 
the remaining frosting.) Mix it into the crumbled cake, using the back 
of a large metal spoon, until thoroughly combined. If you use the 
entire container, the cake balls will be too moist. 
The mixture should be moist enough to roll into 11⁄2-inch balls and still 
hold a round shape. After rolling the cake balls by hand, place them 
on a wax paper–covered baking sheet. 
Cover with plastic wrap and chill for several hours in the refrigerator, 
or place in the freezer for about 15 minutes. Y ou want the balls to be 
ﬁ rm but not frozen.
Remove the baking sheet from the refrigerator or freezer and begin 
shaping the cake balls into cupcakes. Take a chilled ball and roll it into a cylinder shape. Then slide it into the flower-shaped cookie 
cutter. The cake mixture should ﬁ  ll the entire cutter, with any excess 
forming a mounded cupcake top on one side. Y ou can use your thumb to keep the shape ﬂ  at on one side, allowing the rest to form 
a mound on the other. When you have the shape the way you like it, 
gently push the shaped cupcake out of the cutter from the bottom. If the mixture is still ﬁ  rm enough, you should also be able to gently 
pull it out by holding the top mounded side. 
Place the cupcake-shaped cake ball, right-side up, back on the wax 
paper–covered baking sheet. 
Continue with the remaining cake balls. 
Once the balls are all shaped into cupcakes, return them to the 
freezer for 5 to 10 minutes to keep them ﬁ  rm.
Place the chocolate candy coating in a deep, microwave-safe plastic 
bowl. These bowls make it easier to dip the cupcake bottoms com-
pletely in candy coating while holding the bowl without burning your ﬁ ngers. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)Melt the chocolate candy coating, following the instructions on 
the package. Microwave on medium power for 30 seconds at a time, stirring with a spoon in between. Y ou can also use a double boiler. 
Either way, make sure you do not overheat the coating. See “Candy 
Coating Basics,” page 32, for more on working with candy coating. 
Now you’re ready to dip. Take a few cupcake-shaped balls at a time 
out of the refrigerator or freezer to work with. T ransfer the rest to 
the refrigerator at this point, so they stay ﬁ  rm but do not freeze.
One at a time, take a cupcake-shaped cake ball and, holding it by 
the mounded top, dip the bottom into the melted chocolate candy 
coating—just to the point where the mounded shape starts. Remove it from the chocolate, turn it upside down, and swirl your hand in a circular motion. This will cause any excess chocolate coating to 
slide down. When the coating reaches the bottom of the mounded 
cupcake top, you can stop. Have a dish towel handy to wipe oﬀ   your 
ﬁ ngertips, as it is highly likely that you’ll get some coating on them. 
Don’t use water to rinse your hands, because getting water in the 
coating can make it unusable.
Place the half-coated cupcake shape on the second wax paper–
covered baking sheet, chocolate-candy-coating-side up, mounded-
side down. Immediately dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick 
into the melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the 
ﬂ at, chocolate-coated bottom of the cupcake while the chocolate is 
still wet. Push it no more than halfway through.
Continue with the rest of the cupcake-shaped cake balls. Allow the chocolate to dry completely. 
Melt the pink candy coating in the same way that you melted the 
chocolate. Y ou will now decorate the tops. This all comes together quickly, resulting in a ﬁ  nished cupcake pop. 
(continued)22CAKE POPS
Holding its lollipop stick, dip the top of a cupcake in the melted pink 
candy coating. It should completely cover the rest of the exposed 
cupcake and meet the edge of the chocolate coating. 
Remove the cupcake pop from the coating and turn it right-side up. 
If the coating is too hot, it will start to drip down the sides. If this 
happens, let the coating sit for a few minutes to cool and start to 
thicken. Then when you dip the tops, the coating will stay in place. 
While the coating is still wet, use a toothpick to touch up any areas 
the coating may not have covered. Then place 1 M&M (M-side 
down) on the top and add sprinkles for decoration (see page 42). 
Place the cupcake pop in a prepared Styrofoam block to dry com-
pletely. Repeat with the remaining cupcake pops.
Store the cupcake pops in an airtight container on the counter or in 
the refrigerator for several days. Y ou can also cover them in small treat bags, tied with a ribbon, and leave them in the Styrofoam block 
on the counter. TipsTips
•  Make the cake the day before and let it cool overnight. 
Then you can do the crumbling, rolling, shaping, dipping, 
and decorating on the second day.
•  Y ou can also leave uncoated cake balls, covered in plastic 
wrap, in the refrigerator overnight if you want to do the 
dipping on the following day. 
•  Y ou can make these without lollipop sticks. They’re just 
as cute.
•  Don’t get any water in the candy coating. Keep your hands 
completely dry. Water will mess up the coating and ruin all 
your hard work.
•  Poke holes in the Styrofoam block before you start dipping, 
using a lollipop stick. Leave enough space between the holes 
so the cakes won’t touch.
•  Experiment with diﬀ  erent candy coating color combinations.
•  Y ou can also use this technique with other small cookie 
cutters, such as hearts or butterﬂ  ies (see pages 49 and 51).
•  Y ou can place sprinkles in a small dish and pinch a few with 
your ﬁ  ngers to sprinkle over a larger bowl to reuse any that fall.
•  To see a video demonstration of creating cupcake pops, 
go to www.marthastewart.com/recipe/cupcake-pops.
11/4 inch11/4 inch11/2 inch25
The cupcake pops are extremely popular, but these cupcake bites 
come in a close second. They rely on the use of a plastic candy 
mold to help form the shape of the cupcake bottom. No sticks. 
No tapping oﬀ   excess coating. Just a neat, professional-looking 
ﬁ nished product. And best of all, they’re easy!
MAKES 48 CUPCAKE BITES
YOU’LL NEED
18.25-ounce box cake mix 
9-by-13-inch cake pan Large mixing bowl16-ounce container ready-made frosting Large metal spoonWax paper2 baking sheetsPlastic wrap48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coating 2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsLarge plastic squeeze bottleMedium-sized plastic candy cup mold (with cavity openings 
11/2 inches wide)
24 ounces purple candy coatingT oothpicksM&M’s or similarly shaped candySprinkles 
Bake the cake as directed on the box, using a 9-by-13-inch cake pan. 
Let cool completely.
Once the cake is cooled, get organized and set aside plenty of time 
(a couple of hours) to crumble, roll, dip, and decorate 4 dozen cupcake bites.Crumble the cooled cake into a large bowl. See “Crumbling Y our 
Cake” on page 30. Y ou should not see any large pieces of cake.
Add three-quarters of the container of frosting. (Y ou will not need 
the remaining frosting.) Mix it into the crumbled cake, using the back of a large metal spoon, until thoroughly combined. If you use the 
entire container, the cake balls will be too moist. 
The mixture should be moist enough to roll into 1
1⁄2-inch balls and still 
hold a round shape. After rolling the cake balls by hand, place on a 
wax paper–covered baking sheet. 
Cover with plastic wrap and chill for several hours in the refrigerator, 
or place in the freezer for about 15 minutes. Y ou want the balls to be 
ﬁ rm but not frozen. 
If you're making a project that calls for uncoated cupcake bites, stop 
here and proceed to decorate the cupcake bites, following the proj-ect instructions.
When visiting the candy-making 
sections in craft and cake supply stores, I began to pay attention to the various candy molds that are available. 
When I saw one for candy 
cups, I immediately thought it would be perfect to replicate baking cup liners. I love the ease of this method.Basic Cupcake Bites
(continued)THE METHODS26CAKE POPS
Place the chocolate candy coating in a deep, microwave-safe plastic 
bowl. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.) Melt 
the coating, f ollowing the instructions on the package.  Microwave 
on medium power for 30 seconds at a time, stirring with a spoon in between. Y ou can also use a double boiler. Either way, make sure 
you do not overheat the coating. See “Candy Coating Basics,” 
page 32, for more on working with candy coating.
Once melted, transfer the chocolate coating to a large plastic 
squeeze bottle.
Use the squeeze bottle to ﬁ  ll one cavity of the candy mold about 
halfway full with chocolate coating, and immediately place a rolled cake ball into the coating. The cake ball should be slightly smaller 
than the width of the candy mold. Slowly push the cake ball down 
until the pressure causes the candy coating to force its way up the mold and fill in around the sides of the cake ball. Y ou may have 
to experiment with a couple to get the right amount of chocolate 
coating. Stop pushing once the chocolate coating reaches the top edge of the candy mold, so that it doesn’t form a lip around the edge. Repeat for the remaining cavities.
Set the ﬁ  lled candy mold tray on the second baking sheet to keep it 
from bending, and place in the freezer for just a few minutes to let the chocolate set. 
Remove the tray from the freezer and separate the half-coated 
cupcake bites from the candy mold. Give the mold a twist and pull on the exposed cake ball.  
Melt the purple candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl to 
be used for the cupcake bite tops. 
Holding the bottom of a cupcake bite, dip the top in the melted 
purple candy coating until it meets the edge of the chocolate coat-ing. When removed, if the purple coating doesn’t meet where the chocolate coating ends, you can turn it right-side up and swirl your hand in a circular motion to allow the purple coating to slowly work 
its way down the side of the mounded cupcake top. Y ou can also use 
a toothpick to touch up any uncoated areas.
Immediately decorate with 1 M&M (M-side down) and some sprinkles 
and return to the wax paper–covered cookie sheet to dry completely. Repeat with the remaining cupcake bites.
Store in an airtight container on the counter or in the refrigerator 
for several days. 
TipsTips
•   The small ridges formed in the chocolate by the candy 
mold can melt when handled for too long. Wear cloth candy 
gloves to help prevent ﬁ  ngerprints when dipping the tops.
•  Y ou can use more than one candy mold to speed up 
the process.
•  Experiment with diﬀ  erent candy coating color combinations 
for the tops and bottoms of the cupcake bites.28CAKE POPS
Troubleshooting
Y ou followed the directions but still need a little more help .Take 
a look at some of the following scenarios to see if you can find 
the answer.
Y our cake is too moist and will not hold its shape when rolled into 
a ball . Y ou probably used too much frosting in proportion to cake. 
Add more cake to balance it out. T ry crumbling in a few store-bought 
cupcakes, minus the frosting. 
Y our coating won’t cover the cake ball smoothly. Make sure the 
balls are ﬁ  rm and not frozen. Frozen cake balls mixed with hot candy 
coating will cause the coating to start to set too quickly, often before 
the cake ball can be coated properly. If your cake balls are chilled properly and the coating still won’t cover them smoothly, make sure 
you are using the appropriate dipping technique (see page 36). 
Y ou can’t ﬁ  nd candy coating.  T ry melting regular chocolate, and use 
shortening or paramount crystals (see page 40) to make it easier for 
dipping. This is best used when making cake balls, because chocolate 
does not set as hard as candy coating does, making it less suitable for supporting cake pops on their sticks.
Y ou made cake pops and the coating cracked. Y ou may have rolled 
the cake balls too tightly. And if placed in the freezer too long, the 
cake may have tried to expand, resulting in a crack in the coating. 
Don’t worry; they won’t fall oﬀ   the stick if they’ve been secured by 
coating at the base. And you can even dip them a second time to ﬁ  x 
up the coating or drizzle and decorate in a way to disguise the crack. 
I’ve seen this happen with cake pops, but not with cupcake pops or 
bites, because these methods use a two-part dipping method and give the cake ball time to breathe before being coated.
Y our candy coating is too thick.  Don’t turn up the heat. Making 
the candy coating hotter doesn’t make it thinner. If your coating is melted and is still too thick, add shortening or paramount crystals (see page 40) until it is thin enough to work with. Y our cake pops fall oﬀ   the sticks. Make sure the shaped cake balls 
are ﬁ  rm but not frozen when you dip. If they start to get soft, just 
return them to the freezer for a few minutes to ﬁ  rm them up. Make 
sure the coating is thin enough to dip and remove in one motion. Don’t stir the cake pops in the coating. Make sure you don’t insert 
sticks more than halfway through the cake pops. Finally, check that 
the coating surrounds the cake ball at the base where the lollipop stick is inserted. Use a toothpick if necessary to direct the coating around the base of the stick. 
Cake or oil is trying to push its way out of the pop. Make sure the 
pop is completely coated. Even the tiniest opening will invite the 
cake to try and escape. 
Cake crumbs are getting mixed in with the candy coating. The cake 
balls may not be ﬁ  rm enough. Chill them a little longer before dip-
ping. If you use dark-colored cake, with lighter-colored candy coating, 
some crumbs may show up anyway. If so, redip them in a new batch of melted candy coating. This happens more often when making cake 
balls rather than cake pops. Make sure you do not stir cake balls 
in the bowl of candy coating. Drop them in, cover with more coating using a spoon, and then lift them out. 
Y ou can see your cake through the candy coating. When you use 
dark cake and light-colored candy coating, this can happen. T o make 
the coating more opaque, dip the cake balls a second time.
Y our candy coating has a grayish, ﬁ  lmy-looking surface. “Bloom” 
can be caused by improper storage of candy coating or changes in 
temperature when shipping. T o avoid this, properly store your coat-
ings in a cool, dry place away from direct heat or sunlight and avoid 
temperature changes. When purchasing candy coating from a store, pick out the package with the least amount of bloom, to get oﬀ   to 
a good start. FYI: Coatings aﬀ  ected by bloom may not be as pretty, 
but they are still safe to eat.Plan Ahead. Being organized will save you a lot 
of time and unnecessary frustration. Y ou don’t want 
to be counting out candies for decorating when 
you’re dipping cake pops. Make sure everything is 
within easy reach. Sprinkles can go in small dishes, 
and lollipop sticks can stand in a small glass. Y ou can 
also make the cake the night before and let it cool. 
Then your time the next day can be devoted to dip-
ping and decorating. 
T ake some time and read through the following pages 
before you begin a cake-pop project, and you’ll be on 
your way to becoming a pop star. When you ﬁ  nish a 
project, refer to pages 152 to 154 for presentation and 
storage ideas.
For more cake-pop designs from the readers of 
Bakerella.com, visit www.bakerella.com/pop-stars.The T echniques  30CAKE POPS
CAKE POP FLAVOR COMBINATIONS
Cake pops can be made in any number of cake and frosting combi-
nations. Here are a few common cake mix and frosting suggestions, 
along with candy coating ﬂ  avors, to get you started. 
Chocolate Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese, chocolate
 Coating:  Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla, 
peanut butter, mint, butterscotch
Red Velvet Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla 
White Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese
 Coating:  Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla, 
peanut butter, mint, butterscotch
Vanilla Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese
 Coating:  Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla, 
peanut butter, mint, butterscotch
Y ellow Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla  
Lemon Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese, lemon
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla 
Strawberry Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese, strawberry
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla 
Carrot Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese 
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla 
Spice Cake:  Frosting: Buttercream, vanilla, cream cheese 
 Coating: Milk chocolate, dark chocolate, vanilla
Light-colored frostings work better with light-colored cakes. 
The frosting blends right in and disappears. But don’t stop there. Adapt your own cake recipe. Just use the 
methods as a guide for the proportions. (These methods call forthe equivalent of one 9-by-13-inch baked cake and three-fourths 
of a 16-ounce can of ready-made frosting. Avoid whipped frostings.) 
If your homemade cake and frosting recipe makes more or less than that, adjust the amount of frosting you add—more for larger cakes and less for smaller ones. And if you add too much frosting, don’t 
worry. Just add more cake to balance out the proportions. Store-
bought unfrosted cakes work in an emergency. 
Y ou can also use one of the recipes for homemade cakes and 
frostings provided on pages 148 to 149.
CRUMBLING YOUR CAKE
There are two main ways to crumble your cake and prepare it to be 
combined with frosting. The ﬁ  rst, and handiest, is to just use, well, 
your hands. This method works great with cake mixes. The texture 
of the cake causes it to crumble easily. Just cut a baked 9-by-13-inch cake into four equal sections. Remove a section from the pan, break it in half, and rub the two pieces together over a large bowl, making 
sure to crumble any large pieces that fall oﬀ  . Y ou can also use a fork 
to break any larger pieces of cake apart. Repeat with each section until the entire cake is crumbled into a ﬁ  ne texture. If you have large 
pieces mixed in, the cake balls may turn out lumpy and bumpy. 
What if you’ve baked a cake from scratch? No problem. Y ou can 
still crumble it using your hands. But because the texture of scratch 
cakes can vary so much, it may be easier to just toss small sections 
of the cake into a food processor. This will ensure that the texture is ﬁ ne enough. 
Then add the frosting and mix with a large spoon until the frosting 
absorbs into the cake and disappears. Using the back of your spoon is a quick way to make sure the two are thoroughly combined.TipsTips
•  Are 4 dozen cake pops too many? Y ou can make as few as 
a dozen at a time. Each quarter section of cake yields about 12 cake pops. Remember to adjust the amount of frosting accordingly. Just freeze the extra cake quarter sections and save for later use.
•  When using light-colored cakes, remove any brown edges 
before crumbling to avoid brown specks in your cake balls.
32CAKE POPS
CREATING SHAPES
Crumbled cake mixed with frosting can easily be rolled by hand into 
round balls. It can also be molded into oval, rectangular, or triangular 
shapes. Subtle changes in shape can turn a Christmas tree into a 
bunny or a ghost into a skull. And even if you don’t change the shape at all, you’ll ﬁ  nd that decorating with diﬀ  erent add-ons and candies 
can transform a basic round shape into endless designs. 
Here’s a guide to the most commonly used shapes from the ideas 
in this book. 
ROUND:  Bears, lions, tigers, chicks, pigs, cows, cats, monsters, 
babies, reindeer, ice cream cones, game balls, koalas, pumpkins, 
frogs, puppies, ladybugs, turkeys, pandas, clowns, Easter baskets, 
graduation caps
OVAL:  Sheep, mummies, witches, owls
RECTANGULAR:  Popcorn bags, robots 
BELL/PEAR : Ghosts, snowmen, skulls
ROUNDED TRIANGLES/CONES:  T rees, Santa hats, Martians, straw-
berries, bunnies, apples
COOKIE CUTTER SHAPES:  Cupcakes, butterﬂ  ies, ﬂ  owers, heartsCANDY COATING BASICS 
Candy coating, also referred to as candy wafers, compound coat-
ings, confectionery coating, candy melts, chocolate bark, and bark 
coating, is used in candy making. It can be used for dipping, in candy 
molds, or even in squeeze bottles for piping or drizzling. Candy coating comes in a variety of colors and ﬂ  avors. It is easy to use and 
doesn’t require tempering, as chocolate does. Just melt and use. 
Store coatings in a cool, dry place until ready to use. Do not store in 
the refrigerator or freezer. If stored properly, leftover candy coatings can even be reheated and used again.
It doesn’t hurt to keep an extra bag of candy coating on hand for the 
color you are using, just in case. Y ou can always use it on a future project if you don’t need it. TipsTips
•  Make round-shaped cake balls ﬁ  rst, until you’re sure you 
will end up with the appropriate number. If you start shaping 
right away, you can end up with pieces that are too big. 
•  It’s helpful to place the cake balls in the freezer for a few 
minutes to ﬁ  rm them up before reshaping them. 
•  Don’t roll the cake balls too tightly. They may try to expand after coating, which can cause the coating to crack.THE TECHNIQUES 33
Melting Methods
T o use candy coating, simply melt the amount you need and you’re 
ready to go. Rather than melting all of the candy coating at once, 
I usually work with about 16 ounces at a time. T ry one of the following 
methods to ﬁ  nd the one that appeals to you most.
MICROWAVE:  Melt candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl. Micro-
wave on medium power in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. 
Repeat until the coating is completely melted. When you ﬁ  rst stir, 
the coating will still be ﬁ  rm. That’s okay; just keep repeating, making 
sure not to overheat the coating. If the coating gets too hot, it will 
thicken and become unusable. In addition, be sure not to let any 
water mix with the coating. 
DOUBLE BOILER:  I don’t usually use this method because most of the 
time I melt more than one color of candy coating, and it’s easier to 
use the microwave and work with smaller bowls. However, if you are 
using one color, the double boiler method is a great alternative. Fill the bottom section of a double boiler with water and bring to a 
simmer. Remove it from the heat and place candy coating in the top 
section. Stir continuously until completely melted and smooth.
WARMING TRAY:  A warming tray allows you to use several oven-safe 
bowls at one time. Make sure they are small and deep enough for 
dipping. T urn the tray on low and you will be able to keep multiple 
colors melted. 
Thinning Candy Coating
Working with candy coating can be lots of fun, but only if it is work-ing with you. Sometimes the coating is too thick, making it more 
diﬃ  cult to dip the cake pops. Darker-colored coatings sometimes 
have this problem. An easy way to thin the coating is to use a prod-uct called paramount crystals (see page 40), adding a few pieces to the coating. Stir until melted and the coating is ﬂ  uid. Y ou can also 
use regular shortening or even vegetable oil as an alternative. Start by adding just a teaspoon. Stir in until melted. Add more as needed until the coating is ﬂ  uid enough to work with easily.
Using Chocolate as a Coating Substitute
Regular chocolate can be used as a substitute for candy coating, but keep in mind that the coatings are made to do just that—coat. Baking 
chocolate and morsels will cover the cake balls but will not harden in 
the same way that candy coating will. Therefore, this alternative is best when making cake balls instead of cake pops, because the pops 
need a hard coating to give them extra stability on the sticks. Y ou 
may also need to thin chocolate with shortening or paramount crys-tals to make it more ﬂ  uid.
Coloring Candy Coating
Although candy coating comes in a variety of basic colors, some-times you need to tint your own to get just the right shade. Tinting 
white candy coating is also a great alternative if you need only a 
small amount of one color and don’t want to buy a whole package of coating. Add a few drops of candy coloring to start. Add more color, a few drops at a time, until you achieve the shade you desire. 
If you add too much color, you can lighten it by adding more white 
candy coating.
Make sure to use oil-based candy coloring and not regular food 
coloring, which contains water. Food coloring will ruin the coating.34CAKE POPS
Candy Coating Colors
In addition to candy coating ﬂ  avors such as chocolate and peanut butter, vanilla candy coating is available in a rainbow of colors. 
Here is a side-by-side chart of coatings from three popular candy 
coating makers. All three oﬀ  er many of the same colors; however, 
the shades may be slightly diﬀ  erent.Some candy coating colors are also available in mint ﬂ  avor, including 
chocolate, white, green, and pink.
Keep in mind that dark-colored cakes may show through white or 
light-colored coatings. If you want the coating to be completely 
opaque, try dipping a second time. 
Combine candy coating colors to create diﬀ  erent colors or lighten 
any color by adding white candy melts. 
Adding Flavorings
Besides adding color to your candy coating, you can also flavor it with candy oils. These intense flavorings are stronger than the 
regular ﬂ  avorings and extracts you’ll ﬁ  nd in the baking section of 
the grocery store. Y ou need to use only a small amount. Some ﬂ  avor 
examples are blueberry, bubble gum, watermelon, and peppermint.Candy Coating Colors Make ’n Mold Merckens Wilton 
Milk chocolate ﬂ  avored • • •
Dark chocolate ﬂ  avored • • •
Peanut butter ﬂ  avored • • •
Butterscotch ﬂ  avored •
White—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Superwhite—vanilla ﬂ  avored •
Light pink—vanilla ﬂ  avored • •
Dark pink—vanilla ﬂ  avored •
Orange—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Y ellow—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Blue—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Navy—vanilla ﬂ  avored •
Light green—vanilla ﬂ  avored • •
Dark green—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Red—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Orchid/lavender—vanilla ﬂ  avored • • •
Peach—vanilla ﬂ  avored •
Midnight black *—vanilla ﬂ  avored •
  *Available for Halloween36CAKE POPS
DIPPING METHODS
I mention these methods throughout the book, but they are so 
important that I want to provide them for you here in one place. 
The question I have been asked the most is, “How do you get your 
coating so smooth?” Well, it’s really simple. 
Use small bowls so the melted candy coating is about 3 inches deep. 
Make sure the coating is thin enough to dip and remove the pops 
easily. Y ou can use paramount crystals, shortening, or even vegetable 
oil to thin coatings. And then just tap excess coating oﬀ   gently using 
one of the following methods.
CAKE BALLS:  If you’re making cake balls, drop a ball into a small, deep 
bowl of melted candy coating. Cover the entire ball with coating, using a spoon, without stirring or moving the cake ball around in the coating. Then lift it out of the coating with your spoon. With the ball 
still on the spoon, tap the handle of the spoon on the side of the 
bowl several times, until the excess coating starts to fall oﬀ   and back 
into the bowl. Then let the cake ball slide oﬀ   the spoon onto a wax 
paper–covered baking sheet to dry. 
Complete instructions for cake balls start on page 11.
CAKE POPS:  The same tapping technique works for cake pops, but 
it’s done in a diﬀ  erent way. Make sure your coating is deep enough 
to completely submerge the ﬁ  rmed cake pop. Small, narrow, and 
deep microwave-safe plastic bowls are best, so you can hold the 
bowl easily without burning any ﬁ  ngers. Glass bowls can get too hot. Dip about 
1⁄2 inch of a lollipop stick into the melted coating and 
insert it into a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through.
Then dip the cake pop in the melted coating, completely covering 
the cake ball, and remove it in one motion. If the coating is too thick, 
gently tap oﬀ   any excess. Hold the pop over the bowl in one hand 
and tap your wrist gently with your other hand. If you use the hand holding the cake pop to shake oﬀ   excess coating, the force of the 
movement will be too strong and could cause the cake ball to loosen or ﬂ y oﬀ  the lollipop stick. Tapping the wrist holding the cake pop 
absorbs some of the impact. The excess coating will fall oﬀ  , but you 
will need to rotate the lollipop stick so the coating doesn’t build up 
on one side, making it too heavy on that side. If too much coating 
starts to build up at the base of the stick, simply use your ﬁ  nger to wipe it oﬀ  , spinning the lollipop stick at the same time. This can hap-
pen if the coating is too thin or too hot. It’s not as hard as it sounds; 
it just takes a little practice. 
Complete instructions for cake pops start on page 15.
CUPCAKE POPS:  This is a two-part dipping method, but it’s actually 
the one I ﬁ  nd the most fun to do. After you’ve formed the cupcake 
shapes with the cookie cutter and chilled them until ﬁ  rm, dip the 
bottom of a cupcake-shaped cake ball into the melted candy coat-
ing by holding the mounded top with your ﬁ  ngers. Dip to the point 
where the mounded cupcake top starts. Then turn your hand over 
to allow the coating to slide down. This will help make sure the 
entire cupcake bottom is covered in candy coating. While holding 
the cake ball upside down, swirl your hand in a circular motion. This 
is equivalent to the tapping for the cake pops. The swirling motion 
forces the coating to slide down the side of the cupcake while creat-
ing a smooth surface at the same time. When the coating reaches 
the mounded top, transfer the cupcake pop to a wax paper–covered 
baking sheet, mounded-side down. Immediately insert a lollipop 
stick about 1⁄2 inch deep into the melted candy coating, and then 
insert the stick into the bottom of the cupcake no more than half-
way through. Repeat with the remaining cupcake pops before you dip the tops. 
When dipping the tops, let the second color of candy coating sit or 
cool for a few minutes before you start dipping. Coating that is too 
hot can run down the side. If it is slightly cool, it will stay in place. THE TECHNIQUES 37
T o dip the top of a cupcake pop, hold the pop by the lollipop stick 
and dunk it into the melted candy coating until the top is completely 
covered and the coating meets the edge of the bottom candy coat-
ing. Y ou can use a toothpick to direct the coating and touch up any exposed areas of cake.
Complete instructions for cupcake pops start on page 19.
CUPCAKE BITES: This is another two-part method. However, you 
dip only once. Place one type of melted candy coating in a squeeze 
bottle and use it to ﬁ  ll a cavity in a plastic candy cup mold about 
halfway. Place a ﬁ  rm cake ball (smaller in width than the mold shape) 
into the mold cavity. Slowly push the cake ball down until the pres-
sure causes the candy coating to force its way up the mold and ﬁ  ll in 
around the sides of the cake ball. Y ou may have to experiment with a couple to get the right amount of coating. Stop pushing once the coating reaches the top edge of the candy mold, so that it doesn’t 
form a lip around the edge. Repeat for the remaining cavities. Place 
the mold in the freezer for several minutes to allow the coating to set. Remove the mold and pull out the cupcake bites by holding their 
exposed tops. Give the mold a little twist, too, to help release the 
cupcake bites. 
Then simply dip the exposed mounded cupcake tops into a second 
melted candy coating by holding the cupcake bottoms. T ry to be 
quick, because if you hold the bottom for too long, the ridges formed by the mold will pick up ﬁ  ngerprints. Y ou can use candy gloves (see 
page 41) to help avoid this.
Complete instructions for cupcake bites start on page 25.Dipping Do’s & Don’ts
•  DO use a bowl deep enough to dip 
your cake pops and remove them in one motion.
•  DON’T get any water in your candy 
coating.
•  DO keep a dry dish towel or paper 
towels nearby to wipe oﬀ   your hands. 
•  DON’T overheat your candy coating.
•  DO use shortening or paramount crys-
tals to thin coating that is too thick.
•  DON’T use regular food coloring to tint 
candy coating.
•  DO use special candy coloring to tint it.•  DON’T push lollipop sticks more than 
halfway through the cake ball.
•  DO dip the sticks in melted coating 
before you insert them into cake pops.
•  DON’T dip f rozen cake balls. Firm, yes. 
Frozen, no.
•  DO have a lot of fun. THE TECHNIQUES 39
MY TWO FAVORITE TOOLS
Edible-Ink Pens
Dot your eyes. Edible-ink pens are an excellent tool to have on hand if you decide to add personality to your cake pops. They are 
quick and easy. Use them to draw eyes, mouths, eyelashes, and 
more. Americolor Gourmet Writer pens come in colors like black, brown, pink, red, blue, and more. Y ou can buy a whole set or just black to suit your need.
Use them carefully. If you press down too hard when drawing on the 
candy coating, residue from the candy will build up on the tip, making the pens diﬃ   cult to use. So use a very light touch. When dotting 
eyes on sprinkles, though, you’ll need to press a little harder. Imagine 
the pen as a paintbrush and the pops as your canvas. 
T oothpicks
Always keep a small container of toothpicks within reach. 
Y ou can use them to direct candy coating that may not have made 
its way completely around a cake pop. Y ou can use it to texturize 
the surface of the candy coating. Or, if your candy coating pools at the bottom of the cake balls after they are placed on a wax paper–covered baking sheet to dry, simply take a toothpick and draw a line 
through the coating, close to the cake ball. When it dries, you can 
break oﬀ   the unwanted coating for a cleaner look.
T oothpicks can also be used to apply candy coating as “glue.” They 
are also extremely useful when adding decorations. After your cake 
pops are coated and dry, you can use any remaining candy coating left in your dipping bowl as glue. Apply it to candy or sprinkles with 
a toothpick and attach them to the cake pop. Y ou can also apply the candy coating to a coated, dry cake ball and then place the add-on 
into position. Use a tiny amount of  coating to attach the smallest items, 
such as sprinkles for eyes. Use a slightly larger amount for bigger 
add-ons, such as M&M’s or candy necklace pieces. When the coating dries, the add-on will be attached, or “glued” on. If the coating in the 
bowl has dried, simply heat it again to melt it.
40CAKE POPS
MAIN INGREDIENTS
Here’s a handy list of edible ingredients used in making cake pops.
CAKE: Cake mixes, homemade cakes, and store-bought cakes can all 
be used to create cake pops. Avoid using cakes that are extremely 
moist or that contain fruit, because when combined with frosting, the 
texture can become, for lack of a better word, gooey.
FROSTING:  Y ou can combine any ﬂ  avor frosting with any ﬂ  avor cake 
you like. Homemade frostings also work. If you’re using frosting with 
perishable ingredients, such as cream cheese, make sure you store 
ﬁ nished treats in the refrigerator. If you’re using ready-made frosting, 
avoid the whipped varieties.
CANDY COATING:  Coatings are widely available in disc form but are 
also available in blocks. Wilton and Make ’n Mold are popular brands 
that you can ﬁ  nd in craft stores and even online. Merckens is another 
brand that is available online and in cake-supply stores. Grocery stores, such as Kroger, even carry their own brand of candy coating. Be aware that when ordering candy coating online during the sum-
mer months, your coating can arrive already melted. Don’t worry, 
though; you can still use it.
CANDY COLORING:  Wilton and Chefmaster are just two makers of 
candy coloring. These colorings are oil based and do not contain 
water. Never use regular food coloring, which does contain water, 
because it will ruin your candy coating.CANDY WRITERS:  T ry these handy tubes of colored candy coating for 
smaller jobs. Just heat, following the directions on the package, 
and use right out of the tube. They’re quick, easy, and deﬁ  nitely not 
messy. Colors include black, brown, red, white, yellow, green, orange, and pink, to name a few.
CANDY FLAVORING OILS:  Use candy ﬂ  avoring oils to add ﬂ  avor to 
candy coatings. They are not a necessity by any means, but you may 
want to experiment for fun. 
PARAMOUNT CRYSTALS:  This product is ideal for thinning candy 
coating. It’s available online from cake- and candy-supply Web sites 
and cake-supply stores. Shortening and even vegetable oil are also 
acceptable alternatives. Start by adding about a teaspoon per pound of coating until the coating is ﬂ  uid enough for dipping.
EDIBLE ADD-ONS:  Sprinkles, candies, nuts, and cookies are fun ways 
to transform plain cake pops into party pops for every occasion.
EDIBLE-INK PENS:  Americolor Gourmet Writer is a popular brand of 
edible-ink pens. They come in packs of ten assorted colors, and a 
two-pack is also sold in black.
EQUIPMENT
Y ou can make sensational treats with these simple tools. The follow-
ing equipment is recommended for successful cake pops, cupcake 
pops, cake balls, and cupcake bites.
CAKE PAN : Use a 9-by-13-inch cake pan. Buy one with a lid—it will 
come in handy if you choose to bake the cake the night before you 
dip and decorate.
MIXER: Y ou’ll need to have one of these on hand, unless you use a 
store-bought cake and frosting.
MICROWAVE:  I couldn’t live without mine. Y ou can melt candy coating 
colors as you need them if you have a microwave. THE TECHNIQUES 41
DOUBLE BOILER:  Great for larger jobs, a double boiler can heat 
candy coating slowly, without letting the coating get too hot, but 
it is not a necessity.
COOKIE CUTTERS:  Use a small ﬂ  ower-shaped cutter to make cupcake 
pops. Cutters should be about 11⁄4  inches wide by 3⁄4 inch deep. Larger 
cutters 11⁄2 inches wide by 1⁄2 inch deep can be used to make ﬂ  owers 
and hearts. Round cutters can be used to cut candy melts into 
shapes for decorating.
MICROWAVE-SAFE BOWLS:  Durable plastic bowls (not melamine) are 
ideal for melting candy coating in the microwave. They are light-
weight and can be held without burning your hands while dipping. 
Look for bowls that are narrow and deep. Small bowls like this will make dipping much easier and will allow you to work with less coat-
ing at a time. Wide bowls will require you to melt more coating to 
make it deep enough for dipping. If the coating starts to get too low in the bowl to dip properly, you can transfer the coating to a coﬀ  ee 
mug or smaller microwave-safe container. This will help you get the 
most out of your candy coating.
MIXING BOWLS AND SPOONS:  Large mixing bowls and metal spoons 
are used to mix the cake and frosting together.
LOLLIPOP STICKS:  Paper lollipop sticks are available in several diﬀ  er-
ent sizes and widths. I ﬁ  nd the 6-inch length to be the most versa-
tile for displaying.
STYROFOAM BLOCK:  Use a block that’s at least 2 inches thick, so 
the cake pops can be inserted far enough that they won’t fall over. 
Poke holes about 2 inches apart in the top before you start dipping, 
so it will be ready when you need it. Do not poke the holes all the way through. A 12-by-18-inch block can hold 48 pops.
CANDY MOLDS:  These are sold in hundreds of shapes and sizes The 
projects in this book use candy cup molds, square molds, disc-shaped molds, and more. Familiarize yourself with what’s available and watch your creativity skyrocket.BAKING SHEETS : Rimmed 12-by-18-inch baking sheets are large enough 
to hold 48 cake balls. However, smaller rimmed baking sheets are 
easy to slide in and out of the freezer or refrigerator—especially if 
you have a side-by-side model.
WAX PAPER:  Keep wax paper handy for lining baking sheets before 
resting cake balls, cupcake pops, and cupcake bites on them; it 
allows them to be removed easily. 
TOOTHPICKS:  These are extremely useful for touch-ups, dipping, 
and decorating.
SMALL DISHES FOR SPRINKLES:  Pour sprinkles into a small dish so 
you can pinch a few to sprinkle on each pop. Pouring them from 
the container can result in too much waste.
SQUEEZE BOTTLES:  Perfect for drizzling and decorating, squeeze 
bottles come in small, medium, and large sizes to meet every need. 
Y ou can also pour melted candy coating into resealable plastic 
bags. Just snip the corner oﬀ   the bag and squeeze the coating 
through the hole. 
DISH TOWELS:  Always have a dish towel handy, especially when mak-
ing cupcake pops. Coating can get on your ﬁ  ngers easily with this 
method, and it’s better to wipe them on a dry dish towel than to risk 
getting water in your coating. 
CANDY GLOVES : These are great if you are making cupcake bites. 
When holding the ridged cupcake bottoms formed by candy molds, 
your body heat can start to make impressions in the coating. Candy 
gloves can help prevent this. If you’re a quick dipper, don’t worry about having these around.
TWEEZERS:  Keep a pair on hand for use solely in the kitchen. They 
can be helpful when attaching small add-ons to a cake-pop surface.
WARMING TRAY:  This is a great tool to have around if you make a lot 
of cake pops and use more than one color, but it’s not a necessity.42CAKE POPS
SPRINKLES
Sprinkles are so much fun. They come in tons of shapes, sizes, and 
colors. Y ou’ll be surprised by how easily they can be used to give 
cake pops pizzazz and personality. Here are some of the most com-
monly used sprinkles featured in this book. Keep in mind that in many cases, the single-color sprinkles used in these projects are separated from a container of multicolored sprinkles. 
• Chocolate hearts mix
• Colorsticks
• Confetti sprinkles 
• Halloween confetti sprinkles
• Jimmies (brown, orange, red)
• Jumbo confetti sprinkles (peach)
• Jumbo hearts (pink, red, white)
• Jumbo stars (yellow)
• Kissing lips
• Miniature hearts
• Multicolored diamonds• Multicolored hearts
• Nonpareils
• Oval sprinkles
•  Pastel sequins (also called 
miniature confetti sprinkles)
• Pastel wildﬂ  owers
• Poker shapes (black hearts)
• Rainbow chip sprinkles
• Sanding sugar
• Sugar pearlsDECORATIVE ADD-ONS
Much like sprinkles, candy and other edible add-ons are fun to use 
for bringing life to your cake pops. Check out the candy aisle in your 
grocery store, drugstore, or even gas station. Y ou’ll start to see candy 
in a whole new way, inspiring your very own cake pop creations.
CANDIES
• Candy-coated sunﬂ  ower seeds
• Candy necklace pieces
• Caramel candy corn
• Chocolate-coated espresso beans
•  Dark chocolate–coated 
espresso beans
• French burnt peanuts
• Fruit Roll-Ups
• Hershey’s Kisses
• Jelly beans
• Junior Mints
• Licorice belts
• Licorice buttons
• Licorice pastels
• Life Savers
• Life Savers Gummies
• M&M’s
• M&M’s Minis 
• Pastel candy corn
•  Rainbow Airheads Xtremes 
Sour Belts
• Red Hots
• Sour Punch Straws
• Tic Tacs
• Vanilla-coated espresso beans FOOD ITEMS 
• Alphabet pretzels 
• Chocolate chips
• Coconut
• Japanese somen noodles
• Miniature marshmallows
• Mini Oreos
• Oreos 
• Peanut butter chips
• Pretzel sticks
• Pretzel twists
• Sugar cones
• T eddy Grahams
• White chocolate chips
TipTip
•  I like to buy seasonal sprinkles and keep them on hand. For 
instance, around Halloween you can ﬁ  nd black sprinkles, 
which may be more diﬃ   cult to ﬁ  nd at other times of the year.Sprinkles:  1. Seasonal Halloween confetti sprinkles  2. Pastel wildﬂ  owers  3. Rainbow chip sprinkles  4. Multicolored jumbo heart sprinkles  5. Kissing Lips  6. Orange 
and brown jimmies  7. Colorstick sprinkles  8. Jumbo heart sprinkles  9. Chocolate Hearts Mix  10. Jumbo star sprinkles  11. Jumbo diamond sprinkles  12. Sugar pearls  
13. Miniature pink heart sprinkles.  14. Multicolored heart sprinkles  15. Easter egg sprinkles  16. Poker Shapes  17. Sanding sugars  18. Miniature confetti sprinkles  
19. Confetti sprinkles  20. Jumbo confetti sprinkles. 
Tip: Holidays are a great time to pick up specialty sprinkles. Y ou can ﬁ  nd colors and shapes that aren’t available all year-round.
1
12
162
34 5
9
1413
20158
117
106
18
17
19Candies: 1. Life Savers  2. Caramel candy corn  3. Pastel candy corn  4. Rainbow Airheads Xtremes Sour Belts  5. Life Saver Gummies  6. Licorice Bridge Mix (licorice 
buttons and pastels)  7. Jelly beans  8. Licorice Wheels  9. T ropical Chewy Lemonheads  10. Dark chocolate Hershey’s Kisses  11. Tic Tacs 12. French burnt peanuts  
13. Candy necklaces  14. Licorice pastels  15. Chocolate-coated and dark chocolate–coated espresso beans  16. M&M’s  17. Gourmet Mints  18. Candy-coated sunﬂ  ower 
seeds  19. Licorice belts  20. Seasonal Pink and Christmas M&M’s  21. Sour Punch Straws  22. M&M’s Minis
Tip: Around holidays, you can ﬁ  nd candies like M&M’s and candy corn in seasonal colors that aren’t available other times of the year. 
1
121623
45
9
14
19
21
2213158
11
7106
181720Food Items:  1. Chocolate chips  2. White chocolate chips  3. Miniature marshmallows  4. Oreos  5. Pecans  6. Butterscotch chips  7. Large chocolate chips  
8. T eddy Grahams  9. Sugar Cones  10. Mini Oreos  11. Pretzel sticks  12. Coconut  13. Murray Sugar Free Chocolate Bites cookies 
1
1223 4
59
138
117
106TipTip
•  The ingredient quantities on the following pages are 
based on making 48 cake pops. Keep in mind that 
you don’t have to start off that big. Divide your cake 
into quarters, and use one quarter now and fr eeze 
the rest. Don’t forget to reduce the amount of frosting 
and decorations 
proportionally. A dozen cake pops are plenty for the 
beginner and a great 
way to start without feeling overwhelmed.
This section features dozens of ideas 
for decorating cake pops. From simple 
to show-stopping, they are some of the cutest treats on a stick. Y ou’ll be amazed at how easily sprinkles and candy pieces can transform average shapes into unique cake creations. Bunnies, monsters, ﬂ  owers, 
clowns—there’s no limit. The cake pops included here are just a starting point. I hope they inspire you to unleash your creativity and make something unique. Y ou’ll surprise yourself by what you are capable of. I know I did.
Whether you use a mix, bake from scratch, or pur-
chase a store-bought cake to play with, these ideas are about having sweet fun. So grab some cake and frosting, pick up some candy coating and lollipop 
sticks, and let’s get started. Cake Pop  projectsCAKE POP PROJECTS 49
Nothing says Happy Valentine’s Day better than sweetheart 
messages. Use a red edible-ink pen to express your love. 
Or maybe even just a “bite me” for fun.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
Metal heart-shaped cookie cutter, 11⁄2 inches wide
16 ounces yellow candy coating16 ounces pink candy coating16 ounces light green candy coating3 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockRed edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Remove the cake balls from the refrigerator and press them, one at 
a time, into a small heart-shaped cookie cutter to form the shape, or 
if you are adventurous, shape them by hand. They should be about 
11⁄2  inches wide and 1⁄2 inch deep. 
After shaping, put the heart-shaped cakes in the freezer for about 
15 minutes to ﬁ  rm them up again for dipping. Once they are ﬁ  rm, 
transfer them to the refrigerator. Remove a few at a time for dipping, keeping the rest chilled.
Melt each color of candy coating in a separate microwave-safe plas-
tic bowl, following the instructions on the packages. The coating 
should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. Work with one color at a time before moving on to the next. (Y ou should be able to 
get 16 heart-shaped cake pops from each pound of candy coating.)
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom 
of a heart-shaped cake, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip 
the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, 
as described on page 36. 
Let the pops dry in the Styrofoam block. 
When they are completely dry, use a red edible-ink pen to write 
sweet notes on one side of each cake pop.
Return the pops to the Styrofoam block and let the ink dry 
completely.Sweet Hearts
TipTip
•  Y ou can also use yellow M&M’s or similarly shaped candy 
instead of gourmet mints for the ﬂ  owers. However, the mints 
have a rounder surface similar to that of the licorice pastels. CAKE POP PROJECTS 51
Spring Fling
Butterﬂ  y- and ﬂ  ower-shaped cookie cutters provide an easy way to 
achieve distinctive shapes. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
Flower-shaped cookie cutter (11/2 inches wide by 3/4 inch deep)
Butterﬂ  y-shaped cookie cutter (11/2 inches wide by 3/4 inch deep)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks24 licorice pastels24 yellow gourmet mints, or similar candyStyrofoam blockT oothpicks216 pastel confetti sprinkles (for ﬂ  owers and butterﬂ  ies)
48 jumbo heart sprinkles (for 24 butterﬂ  ies)
48 rainbow colorstick sprinkles (for 24 butterﬂ  ies)
TO DECORATE
Mold half of the cake balls using a small ﬂ  ower-shaped cookie cut-
ter and the other half using a small butterﬂ  y-shaped cookie cutter. 
Press the cake mixture into the cookie cutter until it ﬁ  lls up the 
shape.
After shaping, put the cake balls in the freezer for about 15 minutes 
to ﬁ rm up again for dipping. Once they are ﬁ  rm, transfer them to 
the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)When you are ready to dip, remove a few shaped cake balls at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
a butterﬂ  y- or ﬂ  ower-shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than half-
way through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   
any excess, as described on page 36. Before the coating sets, attach 
1 licorice pastel to the front side of each butterﬂ  y and 1 yellow gour-
met mint to the front of each ﬂ  ower. Let dry in the Styrofoam block. 
For the ﬂ  owers, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of melted 
coating to the fronts of the cake pops, so you can attach 1 confetti 
sprinkle on each ﬂ  ower petal. 
For the butterﬂ  ies, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of coating 
on the front of the cake pops so you can att ach jumbo he art sprinkles 
and confetti sprinkles on each butterﬂ  y wing. Then insert 2 colorstick 
sprinkles in matching colors in the hardened coating on the top for antennae.
For an added detail, dot coating around the butterﬂ  y shape with a 
toothpick to deﬁ  ne the wings.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 53
TipTip
•    Try ditching the sticks. The chicks are pretty cute without 
them. Just form a cake ball into a pear shape and drop 
it into a bowl of melted candy coating. Cover it with the 
coating without moving or stirring it around in the bowl. Then lift it from the coating with a spoon using dipping 
instructions on page 36. 
Spring Chicks
These adorable spring chicks are just the treat to add some pop to 
your Easter celebration. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) yellow candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks48 orange rainbow chip sprinkles96 yellow rainbow chip sprinkles96 orange wildﬂ  ower sprinkles
Black edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following 
the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described on 
page 36.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the beak, and attach an orange rainbow chip sprinkle pointed-side out. Use the same technique to 
attach 2 yellow rainbow chips for wings, pointed-side out, on either 
side of the cake pop and 2 orange ﬂ  ower sprinkles at the bottom for feet.
Draw eyes with a black edible-ink pen, and let dry completely in the 
Styrofoam block.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 55
Pastel Bunny Pops
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into rounded 
triangular shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) pink or white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockRound cookie cutter 96 pieces pastel candy corn T oothpicks 48 pink jumbo heart sprinkles96 white confetti sprinklesBlue edible-ink penBlack edible-ink penPink edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following 
the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few of the cake balls at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the larger, 
bottom side of a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway 
through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any 
excess coating, as described on page 36. Place in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
For the ears, use a cookie cutter with a curved edge to cut oﬀ   the 
tips of the candy corn. Dip the cut end of each candy corn piece in a little bit of the melted candy coating and attach it to the top 
of a bunny head. Hold the ears in place for a few seconds until the 
candy coating sets like glue, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry completely. 
Use a toothpick to dot a small amount of melted candy coating in 
position for the nose, and attach 1 pink jumbo heart sprinkle. Hold it in place until set. Use the same technique to apply white confetti 
sprinkles for the eyes, and let dry.
Draw eye details on the confetti sprinkles with blue and black edible-
ink pens. Draw the mouths with a pink edible-ink pen. Let the pops dry completely.TipsTips
•  When sprinkling the sugar pearls, work over a large bowl, 
because these tiny balls will bounce everywhere. Y ou can 
also reuse the ones that fall into the bowl.
•  Y ou can also use soft edible pearls found in cake supply 
stores for an easier bite.CAKE POP PROJECTS 57
Sugar Sheep
Sugar pearls for wool make these sheep look so sweet. Be careful 
before you bite too hard, though. Sugar pearls are crunchy.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into oval shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockLicorice bridge mix (48 licorice buttons for heads and 96 licorice 
pastels cut in half for legs)
Sugar pearlsT oothpicks48 tiny pink heart sprinkles96 brown rainbow chip sprinkles TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the side of 
an oval cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the 
cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36. 
Immediately attach 1 licorice button in position for the head and 
4 pastel leg pieces by pushing them into the bottom, and sprinkle 
sugar pearls on the coating before it sets. If the coating is too hot, the attachments will slide oﬀ  . If it has cooled for too long, the coating 
will set before you can ﬁ  nish attaching everything. But don’t worry: 
if that happens, reheat the coating and use it as a glue to attach any remaining pieces. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
For the face, use a toothpick to place tiny dots of melted white coat-
ing on the licorice-button heads for eyes. Using a toothpick, apply a dot of melted coating in position for the nose, and attach a tiny pink heart sprinkle. Use the same technique to apply brown rainbow chip 
sprinkles for ears.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.CAKE POP PROJECTS 59
Confetti Easter Eggs
Dipping Easter eggs has never been so sweet. Coat egg-shaped 
cake balls in pastel-colored candy coating, and use corn syrup 
to attach colorful decorations.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into egg shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) pink, white, or yellow candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockSmall paintbrushLight corn syrupSanding sugar in various colorsLarge bowlT oothpicksPastel confetti sprinkles
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following 
the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the 
cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
When the pops are dry, use a small paintbrush to paint a thin layer 
of corn syrup in a line around an egg. Do one line at a time. Right after you paint on the syrup, sprinkle it with one of the sanding 
sugar colors until all the corn syrup is covered. Work over a large 
bowl, so you can catch and reuse the sugar.
Repeat, varying the designs and sanding sugar colors.
Use a toothpick to apply small dots of melted coating to the egg, 
and attach confetti sprinkles in random or uniform designs. 
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 61
Easter Baskets
Use jelly beans, coconut, and ice cream cones to decorate these 
Easter basket cake bites. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
14-ounce package sweetened ﬂ  aked coconut
2 large resealable plastic bagsPink and green pastel food coloring48 sugar conesSerrated knife16 ounces peanut butter candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsSqueeze bottleDisc-shaped plastic candy mold (with cavity openings 1
3⁄8    inches wide)
Baking sheet48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate or vanilla candy coatingSpoon48 green Sour Punch Straws15-ounce bag jelly beans in assorted colors TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Prepare the coconut the night before. Divide the coconut between 
the resealable plastic bags. Place a couple of drops of pink food col-
oring in one bag and add a little green coloring to the other. Close each bag and shake until the food coloring has been absorbed into the coconut. If you want the color to be darker, add another drop or 
two of food coloring to each bag. Let dry in the bag overnight.
For the baskets, cut oﬀ   the bottoms of the sugar cones, using a ser-
rated knife, so you are left with tops that are 1
1⁄2 to 2 inches tall. 
T o complement the color of the sugar cones, melt the peanut butter 
candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl, following the instructions on 
the package, and pour it into a squeeze bottle.
Pipe the peanut butter candy coating into one cavity of the disc-
shaped candy mold. Press a sugar cone into the cavity. The open 
bottom of the cone should ﬁ  t snugly inside the disc to create the 
bottom of the basket. Repeat with the remaining cavities. Place the ﬁ lled candy mold on a baking sheet for stability and put it in the 
freezer for a few minutes to let the coating set.
Remove from the freezer and lift the baskets from the mold by pull-
ing gently on each sugar cone. Repeat to make the remaining sugar 
cone baskets.
Melt the chocolate or vanilla candy coating in a deep, microwave-
safe plastic bowl. The coating should be about 3 inches deep 
for easier coating. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating 
at a time.)
(continued)62CAKE POPS
When you are ready to coat, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, cover a cake ball with the melted chocolate or vanilla 
coating as described on page 36, and drop it into a basket with the spoon. Y ou don’t have to be concerned about a smooth ﬁ  nish, 
because these will be hidden from view by the coconut and cones.
For the handles, immediately insert each end of a Sour Punch 
Straw into the basket, on either side of the cake ball, before the coating sets. Once dry, the coating will help secure the basket 
handles in place.
Place some of the prepared colored coconut on top of each cake 
ball while the coating is still wet. Press slightly so the coconut is 
glued to the coating. 
Use some of the coating to attach several jelly beans on top of 
the coconut for the eggs. Let dry completely.TipsTips
•  To speed things up, use more than one plastic disc mold.
•  Y ou can also use a squeeze bottle to add more coating 
before you sprinkle on the coconut. Make sure you pipe 
some where the straws are inserted, to help secure them.
•  Decorate these the same day you want to serve them. 
The straws may break if they stay bent for too long.
•  Save the sugar cone bottoms for the Ice Cream Cone 
Sundaes cake pops on page 67 or the Clowning Around cake 
pops on the facing page.CAKE POP PROJECTS 63
Get creative with candy and decorate funny faces in an assortment 
of expressions.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
Serrated knife 48 or fewer sugar cones48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 French burnt peanut candiesStyrofoam blockT oothpicks48 red regular or peanut M&M’sConfetti colorstick sprinkles Life Savers Gummies candiesFruit Roll-UpsRainbow chip sprinklesBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Prepare the clown hats first. Using a serrated knife, cut off about 
1 inch of the tips of several sugar cones and set the tips aside; you 
won’t need the tops of the cones. Y ou don’t have to do enough for all the cake pops. Some clowns can be hatless. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into 
the melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake 
ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into 
the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described 
on page 36.
(continued)Clowning Around
CAKE POP PROJECTS 65
Right after dipping each pop, gently attach 2 of the burnt peanut 
candies in position for the hair, and attach the sugar cone piece 
on top for the hat. Hold each in place for a few seconds, until the 
candy coating sets like glue. Place the pop in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat until you’ve used up the sugar cone “hats” and all 
of the clowns have hair.
For the face, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of melted candy 
coating in position for the nose and attach a red M&M. Hold it in place until set. 
Using the same technique, attach 2 colorstick sprinkles for the eye-
brows, using matching colors. Then add 1 Life Saver Gummies candy for the collar by sliding it up the lollipop stick and attaching it to 
the clown head with more melted candy coating. T ry cutting out 
small sections from the candy for a more decorative eﬀ  ect before 
you attach it.
For the mouth, cut about a 1-inch rectangular piece of Fruit Roll-Up 
candy and roll it up tightly. Attach it, using more melted candy coat-ing as glue.
Attach a colored rainbow chip sprinkle on the top of the sugar cone 
hat with candy coating.
Draw eyes with an edible-ink pen and let dry completely in the 
Styrofoam block.TipsTips
•  Switch things up. Don’t make all the clowns alike. Some 
can go without hats and without collars. Some can have 
diﬀ erent-sized noses made of red peanut or regular M&M’s. 
Attach the eyebrows and mouths at diﬀ  erent angles for 
varied expressions. 
•  Reserve the tops of the sugar cones for the Easter Baskets on page 61, if you like.CAKE POP PROJECTS 67
These miniature ice cream cone–cake pops will make a 
big impression. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 sugar conesSerrated knifeStyrofoam blockSeveral lollipop sticks48 ounces (3 pounds) pink candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsMulticolor sprinkles16 ounces dark chocolate candy coatingSpoon48 red peanut M&M’sTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Cut oﬀ   the tops of the sugar cones, using a serrated knife, so that 
the width of the opening is about 11⁄4    inches. 
Prepare your Styrofoam block. Since these have cone-shaped bot-
toms, you’ll need to do more than just poke holes in the Styrofoam 
to support them. Take a lollipop stick, insert it at an angle, and then work it around in a circular motion until you have an opening in the Styrofoam that mimics the bottom shape of the cones.
Melt the pink candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coat-
ing at a time.)
When you are ready to coat, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, cover a cake ball with the melted coating as described 
on page 36. Then insert a lollipop stick into the ball to lift it out. T ransfer the coated cake ball to the prepared ice cream cone, and 
remove the stick. Don’t worry about any excess coating or the hole 
left by the stick. Ice Cream Cone Sundaes
(continued)
68CAKE POPS
The coated cake ball should rest nicely in the opening of the ice 
cream cone, and any excess coating will only enhance the look as 
it drips slightly down the edge. If the cake balls don’t ﬁ  t just right, 
make another cut in the cones so the opening is smaller, or make the cake balls bigger. Decorate with sprinkles while the pink candy 
coating is still wet.
Place the cones in the Styrofoam block to dry completely.Melt the dark chocolate candy coating in the second microwave-safe 
plastic bowl. Spoon just a small amount over the very top of the ice 
cream cone. One at a time, attach a red peanut M&M on top before 
the chocolate coating sets, and return to the Styrofoam block to dry.TipsTips
•  Y ou can reserve the unused sugar cone tops for the Easter 
Baskets project on page 61.
•  For a variation, place a coated cake ball on wax paper, add 
sprinkles, and place the cone at an angle on top of the cake 
ball; it will look like a fun mistake.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 69
Everyone loves a chocolate cupcake, but for even more fun add 
swirls to the top for a decorative touch. And don’t stop at choco-
late; these can be made using any candy coating color scheme.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cupcake Pops (page 19)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsDish towelWax paper2 baking sheets48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks16 ounces white candy coatingSmall squeeze bottleTO DECORATE
Have the molded cupcake shapes chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cupcake shapes at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, take a cake ball and, holding it by the mounded top, 
dip the bottom into the melted chocolate candy coating—just to the 
point where the mounded shape starts. Remove it from the choco-
late, turn it upside down, and swirl your hand in a circular motion. This will cause any excess chocolate coating to slide down slightly. 
When the coating reaches the bottom of the mounded cupcake top 
shape, you can stop. Have a dish towel handy to wipe oﬀ   your ﬁ  nger-
tips, as it is highly likely that you’ll get some coating on them. Don’t use water to rinse your hands, as getting water in the coating can 
make it unusable.
Place the half-coated cupcake shape on wax paper–covered baking 
sheets, with the candy-coated side up. Immediately dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the chocolate candy coating, 
and insert the stick straight into the ﬂ  at, chocolate-coated bottom 
of the cupcake while the coating is still wet. Push it no more than 
halfway through.
Continue with the rest of the cake balls and let dry completely in 
the Styrofoam block.Chocolate Cupcake Pops
(continued)CAKE POP PROJECTS 71
Now you’ll decorate the tops, resulting in a ﬁ  nished cupcake pop.
Holding its lollipop stick, dip the top of a cupcake in more of the 
melted chocolate candy coating. It should completely cover the 
rest of the exposed cupcake and meet the edge of the first choc-olate coating. 
Remove the cupcake pop from the coating, and turn it right-side up. 
If the chocolate is too hot, it will start to drip down the sides. If this happens, let the coating sit for a few minutes to thicken. Then when you dip the tops, the coating will stay in place. Use a toothpick to 
touch up any areas the melted chocolate didn’t cover.
Let the pops stand in the Styrofoam block to dry completely.Melt the white candy coating in the second plastic bowl, and pour 
it into the squeeze bottle. Pipe white swirls on the top of each cup-
cake pop for decoration and let dry.TipsTips
•  Y ou can make these using pastel colors for a totally 
diﬀ erent look. 
•  Y ou can dip the shaped cupcakes entirely in chocolate candy 
coating instead of using the two-step method; however, the 
cupcake tops will not be as deﬁ  ned.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 73
Popcorn Bags
T urn any movie night into a sweet experience with these 
“popcorn” cake pops.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockSmall, sharp knife144 miniature marshmallowsBlack edible-ink penRed edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Remove the cake balls from the refrigerator and mold them into 
rectangular shapes to resemble popcorn bags. 
After shaping, put the cakes in the freezer for about 15 minutes to 
ﬁ rm them up for dipping. Once they are ﬁ  rm, transfer them to the 
refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a rectan-gular cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess 
coating, as described on page 36. Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
Prepare the popcorn. Use a sharp knife to make 2 or 3 diagonal marks 
on each mini-marshmallow. Don’t cut through the marshmallows.
When the cake pops are dry, dip the tops back in the melted candy 
coating. Hold them right-side up and attach 3 mini-marshmallows to each one. The marshmallows will attach more quickly if the candy 
coating is not too hot.
Repeat until all the cake pops have marshmallows attached, and let 
dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
Write “POP” on the front of each cake pop with a black edible-
ink pen.
Draw vertical lines on each pop using a red edible-ink pen.Return them to the Styrofoam block to let the ink dry completely.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 75
Apple Pops 
These are great little treats for teachers, for the ﬁ  rst day of school 
or just for fun. Y ou can make them plain or with sprinkles and 
edible-ink details for personality.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
Wax paperBaking sheet48 ounces (3 pounds) red candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks24 pretzel sticks, broken into 
1⁄2-inch pieces
48 green jumbo diamond sprinkles or similar green candyStyrofoam blockT oothpicks96 large white confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Reshape the round cake balls so they are slightly wider at the top 
than the bottom. Y ou can press down on the top and up on the bot-
tom with your ﬁ  ngertips to make subtle indentations, creating an 
apple shape.
Place the apple-shaped cake balls on a wax paper–covered baking 
sheet and put in the freezer for about 15 minutes to firm them up 
for dipping. Once firm, transfer them to the refrigerator. 
Melt the red candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces 
of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
an apple-shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. 
Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, insert a pretzel piece on top for the 
stem, and attach 1 green jumbo sprinkle for the leaf. Place in the 
Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat until all the apple cake pops have the stems and leaves.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the eyes, and attach 2 white confetti sprinkles. Place in the Styrofoam block to dry completely.
Draw on facial details, including pupils, eyelashes, and big smiles, 
using a black edible-ink pen.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
TipTip
•  Y ou can use a black edible-ink pen instead of sugar pearls 
to draw seed shapes on the strawberries once they are dry.CAKE POP PROJECTS 77
Strawberry Patch Pops
Pick these pops for any occasion and brighten someone’s day.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into 
rounded triangular shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) red candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticksWhite sugar pearls Styrofoam block16 ounces dark green candy coatingLarge squeeze bottleWax paperBaking sheetT oothpicks Green Sour Punch Straws (optional)TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the red candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few of the cake balls at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
each shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip 
the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, 
as described on page 36. 
Immediately place several sugar pearls onto the surface of the straw-
berries, and place the pops in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat 
until all the strawberries have been sprinkled with sugar pearls.
Melt the dark green candy coating in the second microwave-safe 
plastic bowl, and pour it into a large squeeze bottle. Pipe ﬂ  ower-
like shapes with 5 rounded petals onto a wax paper–covered bak-ing sheet for each of the 48 leaf tops. Fill in the shapes with more 
coating and let dry. Y ou can place the baking sheet in the freezer to 
speed up the drying time. Y ou can even make these the night before. 
Reheat any leftover green coating and, with a toothpick, apply a 
small amount of coating to the top of the strawberry. One at a time, 
attach the leaf shapes, ﬂ  at-side up, on top of the cake pops. Let dry 
in the Styrofoam block.
Optional:  Cut the Sour Punch Straws up into 48 quarter-inch sec-
tions. Dip one end in some of the remaining green candy coating and attach in the center of each green-leaf top. Let dry completely.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 79
 
Bride & Groom Cake Pops
These do-it-yourself wedding favors will impress any guest. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
64 to 80 ounces (4 to 5 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockWax paper2 baking sheetsLarge squeeze bottleBlack candy coloring (not food coloring) T oothpicks192 miniature white confetti sprinkles 48 miniature black heart sprinkles (from Poker Shapes)
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.For the grooms, place half of the cake pops in the Styrofoam block 
to dry; you will be dipping these a second time.
For the brides, place the remaining coated cake pops, ball-side 
down, on a wax paper–covered baking sheet, and let dry completely. 
T ransfer one-third of the remaining white candy coating to a large  
squeeze bottle, and pipe candy coating for the bride’s dress in opposite directions (as shown in the photo). Place back on the 
wax paper to dry.
Tint the remaining two-thirds of the candy coating with black candy 
coloring. Keep adding color until you achieve a rich black. Then dip 
the groom cake pops in the black candy coating, holding the pop in a 
diagonal direction and dipping it into the coating until half covered. Remove and dip the other side in the opposite diagonal direction to 
form a black V-shaped jacket. Place the groom pops, ball-sides down, 
on a wax paper–covered baking sheet. Let the brides and grooms dry completely.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted white candy coating in position for the bride’s necklace and 
the groom’s buttons, and attach white confetti sprinkles. Use the same technique to attach 2 black miniature heart sprinkles in posi-
tion for the groom’s bow tie. The pointed ends of the hearts should 
be facing each other when attached. 
Use some of the leftover black candy coating to ﬁ  nish the bow ties. 
Just dip a toothpick into the coating and apply a small dab over the 
heart sprinkles where the two pointed sides meet. Let the brides and grooms dry completely.CAKE POP PROJECTS 81
Baby Faces
Throwing a baby shower? Share these baby-face cake pops with 
guests and they’ll go gaga. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11) 
4 to 8 ounces of pink candy coating2 deep microwave-safe plastic bowls2 small squeeze bottlesWax paperBaking sheet48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coating48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks48 pastel candy necklace piecesBlack, pink, peach, and brown edible-ink pens
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Y ou can make the bows the night before. Melt the pink candy coat-
ing in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following the instructions on 
the package. Pour into a small squeeze bottle. Pipe two small disks 
of the melted coa ting side by side on a wax paper–covered baking 
sheet. Then pipe one smaller disk in between, and overlapping, the 
other two for the bow. Decide how many girl babies you want to make, and repeat until you have that many bows. Let dry completely. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into 
the melted white candy coating, and insert the stick straight into 
a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake 
pop into the melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
For boy babies, place the pops in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
For girl babies, attach 1 premade pink bow to the top of each head 
while the coating is still wet. Hold in place for a few seconds until the candy coating sets like glue, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
For the noses, pour the remaining white coating into the second 
squeeze bottle. Pipe small oval shapes onto wax paper and let dry. Y ou can place them in the freezer on a baking sheet for a few min-
utes to speed this up.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach a piped 
oval nose shape. Use the same technique to attach a candy neck-
lace piece in position for the paciﬁ  er.
Use the edible-ink pens to draw on facial features, and let dry. 
Eyelashes, eyebrows, smiles, and blushing cheeks will give the pops 
personality.
Let dry completely. CAKE POP PROJECTS 83
Graduation Caps
In addition to making cupcake bites, you can use a candy cup mold 
to make other designs, such as these graduation caps. T ry using 
candy coating in school colors and give your graduate even more 
to smile about.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
64 to 80 ounces (4 to 5 pounds) candy coating in the color of your choiceDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowlLarge squeeze bottleMedium-sized plastic candy cup mold (with cavity openings 1
1⁄2 inches wide)
48 paper lollipop sticksBaking sheetStyrofoam blockShallow square plastic candy mold (with cavity openings 1
7⁄8 inches wide)
T oothpicksRainbow Airheads Xtremes Sour Belts, separated into colors and cut into 
2-inch pieces
M&M’s Minis or similarly shaped candy for the cupcake topsTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. Refer to the 
Basic Cupcake Bites method on page 25 when making these 
graduation caps.
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl, following the pack-
age directions, and pour into a large squeeze bottle.
Fill a cavity of the candy cup mold with melted coating, and place a 
cake ball into the opening. Press it in slowly, allowing the candy coat-
ing to force its way up the sides of the candy mold. The top of the ball should be ﬂ  ush with the top surface of the plastic mold. In other 
words, it should not stick up past the top of the candy mold cavity. 
If the balls are too large, simply pinch oﬀ   a little bit and roll them 
smaller. Y ou can also shape them similar to the shape of the mold 
cavity to maximize space.
Use the squeeze bottle to pour more candy coating over the top 
of the cake ball. The coating should be level with the surface of the plastic mold. Immediately insert a lollipop stick into the cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Repeat with the remaining 
cavities and let dry. Y ou can place the ﬁ  lled candy mold on a baking 
sheet in the freezer to speed up the drying time. Remove after 5 to 
10 minutes, and pop them out by pressing on the mold underneath. 
Using chilled cake balls here helps the sticks stand up straight when you insert them, but to be safe, don’t try to pull them out by the 
sticks when they are dry. 
(continued)84CAKE POPS
Repeat, using the same candy mold, or use several molds at once. 
Stand the pops in the Styrofoam block.
Make the tops for the hats, using a shallow square candy mold. 
Fill each square with melted candy coating. Hold the tray above the counter surface and gently drop it a couple of times to ﬂ  atten the 
coating. Place the tray on a baking sheet in the freezer to speed 
up the drying time. Remove after about 5 minutes, pop the squares out of the mold, and set aside.
When all the hat pieces are completed and dry, you can do the ﬁ  nal 
assembly. Using a toothpick, place some candy coating on the bot-
tom of each square hat piece and attach the pieces to the cake pop to complete the shape. Usin g the same gluing technique, apply a 
small amount of coating to the top of the hat and att ach a Sour Belt 
candy tassel and 1 M&M’s Mini in the center.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.TipTip
•  Pull-apart licorice pieces are another option for the tassel 
if you can’t ﬁ  nd Rainbow Sour Belts.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 85
Pool Party Pops
These fun cupcake pops are perfect for a pool party or 
beach theme. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cupcake Pops (page 19) 
Pink candy writerY ellow candy writer48 T eddy Grahams cookiesBlack edible-ink pen48 Life Savers Gummies candies48 ounces (3 pounds) light blue candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowlWax paperBaking sheet48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicksBlue sanding sugarTO DECORATE
Have the molded cupcake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Prepare the bathing suits on the bears ﬁ  rst. Use candy writers to 
pipe pink bikinis onto T eddy Grahams for girl bears and yellow candy 
swim trunks for boy bears. Let dry. Use a black edible-ink pen to detail the faces.
Stretch Life Savers Gummies, place them around the legs of the 
teddy bears, and set aside. 
Melt the blue candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces 
of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cupcake balls at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, take a cupcake shape and, holding it by its mounded 
top, dip the bottom into the melted candy coating. Remove it from 
the candy coating, turn it upside down, and swirl your hand in a cir-
cular motion. This will cause any excess coating to slide down slightly. When the coating reaches the bottom of the mounded shape, you can stop. 
Place the half-coated cupcake shape on a wax paper–covered baking 
sheet, with the candy-coated side up. Immediately dip about 
1⁄2 inch 
of the tip of a lollipop stick into the melted candy coating, and insert 
the stick straight into the ﬂ  at, candy-coated bottom of the cupcake 
while the coating is still wet. Push it no more than halfway through.
(continued)CAKE POP PROJECTS 87
Continue with the rest of the cupcake balls and let dry completely.
Now you’ll decorate the tops, resulting in a ﬁ  nished cupcake pop.
One at a time, hold the lollipop stick and dip the top of the cupcake 
into the melted blue candy coating. It should completely cover the rest of the exposed cake ball and meet the edge of the ﬁ  rst coating.
Remove the cupcake pop from the coating, and turn it right-side up. 
If the coating is too hot, it will start to drip down the sides. If this happens, just let the coating sit for a few minutes to thicken. Then when you dip the tops, the coating will stay in place. 
Use a toothpick to touch up any areas the melted candy coating 
didn’t cover and to create wavy lines in the coating.
While the coating is still wet, sprinkle the top of the cupcake 
pop with blue sanding sugar and attach one of the teddy bears. 
The Life Saver inner tube should rest on top. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.TipTip
•  Y ou can also dip the shaped cupcakes entirely in blue candy 
coating instead of using the two-step method; however, the 
cupcake tops will not be as well deﬁ  ned.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 89
Martians
Dark green and pink candy coating make these mini-Martians out-
of-this-world cute! Add black sunﬂ  ower-seed eyes to create spooky 
space invaders.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into balloon shapes 
24 ounces (11⁄2 pounds) dark green candy coating
2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticks Styrofoam block24 ounces (1
1⁄2 pounds) dark pink candy coating
T oothpicks96 black candy-coated sunﬂ  ower seedsTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the dark green candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the pointed 
end of a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. 
Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess 
coating, as described on page 36. Do this with half of the cake balls, and place them in the Styrofoam block to dry.
Melt the dark pink candy coating in the second bowl, and dip the 
remaining Martians, adding them to the Styrofoam block. 
When the pops dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of candy 
coating (matching the color of the pop) in position for the eyes. 
Attach 2 coated sunﬂ  ower seeds, pointed sides facing in and down. Hold them in place until the candy coating sets like glue. 
Place the pops back in the Styrofoam block to dry completely. 
TipTip
•  If you don’t have a microwave-safe bowl large enough for 
3 pounds of candy coating, you can work in batches, melting 
more coating as you need it. Keep in mind that the shade 
of gray may not match from one batch to another. CAKE POP PROJECTS 91
Robots
Candy necklace pieces make great eyes, especially for these color-
ful robots. Place them close together or far apart, and have fun 
with their faces.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into squares and/or 
rectangles
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowlBlack candy coloring (not food coloring) 48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks 96 candy buttonsCandy necklace pieces in assorted colors (you’ll need at least 144)Red Rips Licorice BeltsLife Savers CandiesJapanese somen noodles
TO DECORATE
Have the cake shapes chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. Stir a few drops of black candy color into the melted white coating until you achieve the 
desired shade of gray. 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described on 
page 36.
Let dry in the Styrofoam block.
T o attach the robot details, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted gray candy coating in position for the ears and attach 2 candy buttons that match in color. Place 2 dots of coating in position for the 
eyes and attach matching candy necklace pieces. Cut mouths out 
of the Red Rips Licorice Belts, and attach them in position using the same technique. The coating will dry and work like glue. 
Using a toothpick again, apply coating at the base of the robot head 
where it meets the stick, and attach a Life Saver by sliding it up the lollipop stick. Hold it in place until the candy coating sets like glue. Add more coating to the bottom of the Life Saver and attach a candy 
necklace piece in the same way. 
Break the somen noodles into 
1⁄2-inch pieces, and carefully insert 
them into the tops of the cake pops for antennae. Some robots 
can have one antenna and some can have two. For robots with one 
antenna, you can attach another candy necklace piece around the antenna, using the same gluing technique.
Have fun and create an assortment of expressions by varying the 
placement of the candy pieces.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.CAKE POP PROJECTS 93
Kids will get a kick out of these cake pops. Let them help and make 
messy monsters.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
64 ounces (4 pounds) purple candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockLarge squeeze bottleWhite candy writerChocolate jimmiesBlue edible-ink penBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the purple candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick in the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into 
the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described 
on page 36.
Let dry in the Styrofoam block.
Pour the remaining purple coating into a large squeeze bottle, and 
pipe random, drizzled lines all around the monster head. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
On some of the pops, pipe two small white circles with a candy 
writer for the eyes, and insert 2 chocolate jimmies before the coating sets.
On the remaining pops, pipe a single large, white circle. Let dry com-
pletely and draw a large blue circle inside the white circle, using a blue edible-ink pen. With a black edible-ink pen, outline the circle 
and draw a pupil to ﬁ  nish the eye. 
Let dry completely.
note: Y ou can also use melted white candy coating for the eyes.Monster Pops 
CAKE POP PROJECTS 95
Pirate Pops
Watch out! These double-dipped pirate pops will steal your heart 
with their friendly faces.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block24 ounces red candy coatingAbout 15 white confetti sprinkles per cake popT oothpicks48 red M&M’s Minis48 red jumbo heart sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted white candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake 
ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop 
into the white coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described 
on page 36. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
For the bandanas, melt the red candy coating in the second 
microwave-safe plastic bowl and dip the top half of each cake pop in it, holding the pop at a diagonal. Before the red candy coating sets, place miniature white confetti sprinkles randomly on top. 
(Y ou can also attach the sprinkles after the coating dries by using 
a toothpick to dot on coating and then attaching the sprinkles.)
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
To  ﬁ nish the bandanas, use a toothpick to dab a little red candy coat-
ing onto one side of the pop, and attach a red M&M’s Mini. Hold it in place until the candy coating sets like glue. Use the same tech-
nique to attach a jumbo heart sprinkle, with the pointed end toward 
the cake pop, for the ﬁ  nal touch, and let dry.
For the faces, use a black edible-ink pen to draw on eyes, patches, 
and mouths.
Let dry completely.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 97
Game Ball Cupcake Bites
Use a candy mold to make cupcake bites, and decorate these sweet 
treats for your favorite sport.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cupcake Bites (page 25)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coating2 or more deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsLarge squeeze bottleMedium-sized plastic candy cup mold (with cavity openings 1
1⁄2 inches wide)
Baking sheet24 ounces (1
1⁄2 pounds) white, yellow, or orange candy coating
T oothpicks White candy writer, for tennis balls Small squeeze bottleRed candy writer or candy coating, for baseballsRed jimmies, for baseballsBlack candy writer, for soccer balls and basketballs TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the package instructions, and transfer it to a large plastic 
squeeze bottle.
Use the large squeeze bottle to ﬁ  ll a cavity of the candy mold with 
chocolate coating, and immediately place one of the cake balls into 
the coating. Start out by ﬁ  lling the cavity about halfway. Slowly push 
the cake ball down until the pressure causes the candy coating to force its way up and ﬁ  ll in around the sides of the cake ball. Y ou may 
have to experiment with a couple to get the right amount. Stop push-
ing once the chocolate reaches the top edge of the candy mold so that it doesn’t form a lip around the edge. Half of the uncoated cake 
ball should be raised above the mold to form a mounded top. Repeat 
with the remaining cavities of the mold.
Place the ﬁ  lled candy mold tray in the freezer for 5 to 10 minutes to 
allow the chocolate to set. Placing it on a baking sheet will keep the 
candy mold from bending.
Remove from the freezer and separate the cupcake bites from 
the candy mold. Give the mold a twist and pull, holding on to the 
exposed cake balls. 
For the soccer and baseball cupcake tops, melt the white candy 
coating in a microwave-safe bowl. For the tennis balls, melt 
the yellow candy coating, and for basketballs, melt the orange 
candy coating.TipTip
•   The ridges formed in the chocolate by the candy mold 
can melt slightly when you hold them for more than a few 
seconds. Wearing candy gloves can reduce ﬁ  ngerprints on 
the coating. 
(continued)98CAKE POPS
Holding the bottom of each cupcake bite, dip the top in the melted 
candy coating until it meets the edge of the chocolate coating. Y ou 
can use a toothpick to touch up any uncoated areas.
Remove the cupcake bite from the coating, turn it right-side up, and 
swirl your hand in a circular motion to help smooth out the coating. 
Set aside and let dry completely before decorating the details.
For tennis balls, use a white candy writer (or pour some melted white 
coating into the small squeeze bottle) and pipe on wavy seams.
For baseballs, use a red candy writer (or melted red candy coating) 
to pipe semicircles onto the tops. Add red jimmies while the coating 
is still wet, or pipe on red for the stitches, and let dry.
For soccer balls, use a toothpick to etch hexagon shapes into the 
white coated tops. Y ou can use the markings as a guide to outline 
the shapes using a black candy writer. Fill the shapes in with black. 
For basketballs, use a toothpick to etch two perpendicular lines and 
then two semicircles. T race the markings with a black candy writer.
Let the cupcake bites dry completely.In addition to cake balls, bites, 
and pops, you can combine other 
ingredients that will allow you to mold diﬀ erent shapes. These footballs are 
actually crushed Oreos mixed with 
cream cheese. Y ou can shape them out 
of cake and frosting as well, but don’t limit yourself. Feel free to experiment with other sweets, like cookies, and brownies. Or for other pop examples, visit: www.bakerella.com/category/pops-bites/other-pops/
CAKE POP PROJECTS 99
Lovely Little Ladybugs
Create cute bug bites using domed candy molds. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
64 ounces (4 pounds) red candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsLarge squeeze bottleDome-shaped plastic truﬄ   e candy mold 
(with cavity openings 1
3⁄4    inch es wide)
Baking sheetBlack edible-ink pen4 ounces of chocolate candy coating T oothpicks48 Junior Mints96 white confetti sprinkles48 red lip-shaped sprinklesAbout 400 black confetti sprinkles96 chocolate jimmiesTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. Refer to the 
Basic Cupcake Bites method on page 25 when making these lady-
bug bites. 
Melt the red candy coating in a microwave-safe bowl, following the 
package directions, and pour into a large squeeze bottle.
Fill a cavity of the domed candy mold with the melted red coating, 
and place a cake ball into the cavity. Press it in slowly, allowing the 
candy coating to force its way up the sides of the candy mold. The top of the ball should be almost ﬂ  ush with the top of the plastic 
mold. In other words, it should not stick up past the top of the candy 
mold cavity. If the balls are too large, simply pinch oﬀ   a little bit and 
roll them smaller. Y ou can also shape them similar to the shape of 
the mold cavity to maximize space.
(continued)CAKE POP PROJECTS 101
Use the squeeze bottle to pour more red candy coating over the 
top of the cake ball. The coating should be level with the surface 
of the plastic mold. Repeat with each cavity and let dry. Y ou can 
place the ﬁ  lled mold on a baking sheet in the freezer to speed this up. Remove after 5 to 10 minutes, and pop the red ladybug bodies 
out of the mold. Repeat using the same candy mold, or use several 
molds at once.
Draw a straight black line down the center of each domed, candy-
covered cake ball with a black edible-ink pen and let dry.
Work on the heads next. Melt the chocolate coating to use as 
glue. Use a toothpick to dot melted chocolate candy coating onto each Junior Mint in position for the eyes, and attach 2 white con-
fetti sprinkles. Use the same technique to attach 1 red lip sprinkle 
in position for the mouth. Set aside to dry.
Using a toothpick, dot more chocolate coating onto either side of the 
line on the ladybug’s back. Press 1 black confetti sprinkle on each dot 
of coating and let dry.
Place a small amount of chocolate coating on the back of each Junior 
Mint head and attach to the ladybug body. Allow to dry completely 
before moving. Finally, dip a toothpick into the melted chocolate 
coating and dot on the pupils of the eyes. Dip the ends of 2 choco-late jimmies, one at a time, in melted chocolate coating and attach 
in place on each head for the antennae.
Optional:  If you would like the ladybugs to have feet, attach 2 black 
confetti sprinkles to the underside of the ladybug body with more 
candy coating, so that half of the confetti sprinkle is exposed for 
view. Allow to dry completely before moving.TipsTips
•  The antennae and feet will be very delicate, so be careful. 
If you plan on presenting these at home, they should do ﬁ  ne, 
but if you want to transport them, consider skipping the feet 
and antennae.
•  Y ou can also pipe on spots with candy coating instead of 
using black confetti sprinkles.CAKE POP PROJECTS 103
Froggies
Use white candy necklace pieces for eyes that pop, and draw on 
a big smile to round out these happy faces. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) dark green candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 white candy necklace piecesStyrofoam blockBlack edible-ink pen1 package (5.64 ounces) Red Rips Licorice Belts (optional) TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the dark green candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, attach 2 candy necklace pieces in posi-
tion for the eyes, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat 
until all the froggie cake pops have eyes.
Draw a nose and a big smile with a black edible-ink pen, and let dry 
completely in the Styrofoam block.
Optional: Cut tongue shapes from the licorice belts. They should 
be round on one end for the tip of the tongue and slightly curved 
on the other to attach more easily to the curved surface of the cake 
pop. Dip the slightly curved end in melted candy coating and attach it along the frog’s smile. Hold it in place for a few seconds until the candy coating sets like glue, and let dry.
Barnyard FriendsCAKE POP PROJECTS 105
Pink Piggies
Make these little piggies, as well as cow and chicken pops, 
for a barnyard birthday bash.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) pink candy coatingDeep microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 pink candy-coated sunﬂ  ower seeds
Styrofoam blockT oothpicks48 light pink M&M’sRed edible-ink penBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the pink candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, gently attach 2 candy-coated sunﬂ  ower 
seeds in position for the ears.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat until all the cake pops 
are dipped and have ears.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach 1 pink M&M, M-side down. Hold in place for a few seconds, until set. 
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry completely. Repeat until all the 
cake pops have noses. 
Draw details, using a red edible-ink pen for the snout and a black 
edible-ink pen for the eyes and mouth. 
Let dry completely.
(continued)
106CAKE POPS
Cow Pops 
Chocolate chips are the perfect proportion for many animal ears. 
Here you can use one in white chocolate and one in milk chocolate 
for adorable little cows.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks48 light pink M&M’s 48 white chocolate chips48 milk chocolate chipsBrown or black candy writers96 white miniature confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described on 
page 36. Place in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
For the face, use a toothpick to apply a small amount of melted coat-
ing on the front of the pop, in position for the nose, and attach 1 pink M&M, M-side down. Hold it in place until set. 
Use the same technique to attach a white and milk chocolate chip to 
each pop for the ears.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry completely.Use a candy writer to pipe a small circle of coating onto each pop 
for a cow spot. Use a toothpick to dot on some candy coating, and 
attach 1 miniature confetti sprinkle eye inside the spot and another sprinkle on the other side for the eyes.
Using a black edible-ink pen, draw pupils on the confetti sprinkles, 
snout details, and a mouth. Let dry completely.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 107
Chickens 
Heart sprinkles come in diﬀ  erent sizes. See how easily miniature 
and jumbo-size hearts turn plain white cake pops into super-
cute chicks.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks144 red jumbo heart sprinklesStyrofoam blockT oothpicks96 orange miniature heart sprinklesBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.  
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described on 
page 36.
Immediately attach the pointed side of 3 red jumbo heart sprinkles 
in a line on the top of the cake pop. Place in the Styrofoam block to 
dry. Repeat with the remaining cake pops until all the chicken pops have red jumbo sprinkles on top.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the beak, and attach 2 miniature orange heart sprinkles, pointed-side out. Separate them slightly so 
that the beak looks open. Hold them in place until the candy coating 
sets like glue, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
Draw eyes with a black edible-ink pen. Let dry completely.
108CAKE POPS
Puppy Pops
Mix and match peanut butter, chocolate, and vanilla candy coatings 
to create a litter of cute puppies.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
32 ounces (2 pounds) peanut butter candy coating16 ounces white candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticks Styrofoam block16 ounces chocolate candy coating1 to 3 squeeze bottles Several large clear plastic spoons Permanent markerWax paperBaking sheetM&M’s MinisSmall, sharp knifeT oothpicksBlack edible-ink pen48 Life Savers candiesTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the peanut butter and white candy coatings in separate plastic 
microwave-safe bowls, following the instructions on the packages 
and w orking with one ﬂ  avor at a time. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick in either 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
same melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described 
on page 36.
Let the pops dry in the Styrofoam block.
T o make the puppy ears, melt the chocolate candy coating and pour 
in a squeeze bottle. If you want ears in the other colors, put some of the peanut butter and white candy coatings into separate squeeze 
bottles, reheating them if necessary.
Draw an elongated teardrop shape on the back of a large plastic 
spoon with a permanent marker. Using plastic spoons will help you 
form ears that are curved. T urn the spoon over. Using a squeeze 
bottle ﬁ  lled with melted coating, trace the ear shape on the inside bowl of the spoon, then ﬁ  ll the shape with more coating. Repeat 
until you have 48 pairs of puppy ea rs. Place in the freezer on a wax 
paper–covered baking sheet for a few minutes to set. 
(continued)110CAKE POPS
Remove the spoons from the freezer and simply pop the ears oﬀ   
them. Store in a safe place until you are ready to attach them to the 
cake pops. These can even be made the night before.
For the noses, cut M&M’s Minis in half, using a sharp knife. Y ou can 
also use a squeeze bottle ﬁ  lled with melted candy coating to pipe 
noses onto wax paper. Let the noses dry completely. These can be 
made the night before too.
Use a toothpick to dot a small amount of melted candy coating 
in position for the nose and attach a candy nose or a nose made 
of coating. 
Let the pops dry completely in the Styrofoam block.Draw eyes and a mouth on each puppy with an edible-ink pen, and 
let dry completely.
Attach the ears and Life Savers for the collars with more melted 
candy coating, sliding the Life Savers onto the lollipop sticks. 
Hold each in place for a few seconds until the candy coating sets like glue.
Let dry completely. 
note:  The ears will be fragile. Be extremely careful if transporting.CAKE POP PROJECTS 111
Lions, Tigers & Bears, Oh My! 
Little Lions
Make these lion cake pops using peanut butter morsels and they’ll 
be the “mane” attraction.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) peanut butter or butterscotch candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block24 brown M&M’sSharp knife11-ounce peanut butter or butterscotch morselsT oothpicks96 miniature white confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following 
the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry and repeat with the remaining 
cake pops.
Cut the M&M’s in half with a sharp knife and set aside.Dip the bottom of a peanut butter morsel into the leftover melted 
candy coating and attach it to the cake pop. Continue all the way 
around the head, using about a dozen morsels, to create the mane. Let the pops dry in the Styrofoam block. 
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount 
of melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach an M&M half. Use the same technique to attach 2 miniature white con-
fetti sprinkles for the eyes. Repeat with the remaining cake pops 
and let dry.
Draw on the mouths and pupils for the eyes with a black edible-
ink pen.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
(continued)CAKE POP PROJECTS 113
Tiny Tigers 
Use a black edible-ink pen to transform orange cake pops into 
terriﬁ  c-looking tigers. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) orange candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block48 orange candy necklace piecesSharp knifeT oothpicks48 miniature black heart sprinkles (from Poker Shapes)96 miniature white confetti sprinklesWhite candy writerBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the orange candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
Cut the orange candy necklace pieces in half, using a sharp knife.Dip the cut side of 2 candy necklace pieces into the leftover melted 
coating, and attach them to a cake pop for the ears. Hold them in place 
until the coating sets like glue. Repeat for the remaining cake pops.
Let dry in the Styrofoam block. When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach a miniature 
black heart sprinkle. Use the same technique to attach 2 miniature white confetti sprinkles in position for the eyes.
Use a white candy writer to pipe two small circle patches on either 
side of the tiger’s nose, and let dry.
Draw on the tiger stripes and pupils for the ey es with a black 
edible-ink pen.
Let dry completely.
(continued)114CAKE POPS
Brown Bears 
These bears are made using chocolate candy coating, but you can 
make them in any color you want. Pink or blue bears would make 
cute baby shower treats.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block48 dark brown or black M&M’s Sharp knifeT oothpicks48 miniature black heart sprinkles (from Poker Shapes)96 miniature white confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-
ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into 
the melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry and repeat with the remaining 
cake pops.
Cut the M&M’s in half with a sharp knife and set side.Dip the ﬂ  at side of 2 M&M's pieces into the melted coating and 
attach them to the cake pop for ears. Hold them in place until the 
coating sets like glue. Repeat for the remaining cake pops.
Let dry in Styrofoam block.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach a minia-ture black heart sprinkle. Use the same technique to attach 2 minia-
ture white confetti sprinkles in position for the eyes. 
Draw on the mouths and pupils for the eyes with a black edible-
ink pen.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.TipTip
•  If you don’t have a microwave-safe bowl large enough 
for 31⁄2 pounds of candy coating, you can work in batches, 
melting more coating as you need it. Keep in mind that 
it may be diﬃ   cult to match the shade of gray from one 
batch to another. CAKE POP PROJECTS 117
Koala Bears
Candy coating comes in a rainbow of colors. Y ou can also tint your 
own easily. For gray, add a few drops of black candy coloring to 
melted white candy coating. 
YOU’LL NEED 
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), 
64 ounces (4 pounds) white candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowlsBlack candy coloring (not food coloring)48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block 2 large squeeze bottlesWax paperRound metal cookie cutterT oothpicks48 dark chocolate–coated espresso beansBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt 56 ounces (3 1⁄2 pounds) white candy coating in a microwave-safe 
plastic bowl, following the instructions on the package. The coating 
should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping.
Add several drops of black candy coloring to the melted white coat-
ing and stir, adding more, a drop at a time, if necessary until you achieve the desired shade of gray. 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Let the pops dry in the Styrofoam block.
Now work on the ears. Pour the unused gray candy coating into a 
large squeeze bottle. Y ou can reheat it if necessary.
For each koala bear cake pop, pipe two 1
1⁄4  -inch round discs on wax 
paper for the ears. Let dry completely.
Use any cookie cutter with a slightly rounded edge to cut away a 
curved shape from the ear. The curved cut should be similar in shape to the side of the cake pop, so you can attach the two without a gap.
T o attach the ears, use a toothpick to apply a small amount of melted 
gray candy coating on the side of the ear where the cut was made. Attach each ear to the pop, ﬂ  at-side forward, and place the pop back 
in the Styrofoam block to dry. The coating will dry and work like glue. 
Repeat until all the cake pops have gray ears.
Melt the remaining 8 ounces of white candy coating and pour it into 
a large squeeze bottle. Carefully pipe round white circular shapes on 
the ﬂ  at surface of the attached gray ears while holding the lollipop 
stick, making sure a gray border is exposed around the edges, and let dry. If the white coating drips, it is too hot. Let the coating sit for a 
minute to thicken, and continue.
For the face, use a toothpick to apply a small amount of melted gray 
coating to the front of the pop in position for the nose, and attach an espresso bean. Hold it in place for a few seconds, until the candy coating sets like glue. 
Draw eyes and a mouth with an edible-ink pen and let dry com-
pletely in the Styrofoam block.CAKE POP PROJECTS 119
Panda Bears
These little bears are black and white and cute all over. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
96 black M&M’sSmall, sharp knife48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockT oothpicks48 miniature black heart sprinkles (from Poker Shapes)Black candy writer96 miniature white confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink penPink heart sprinkles, blue heart sprinkles, and blue confetti sprinkles 
(optional)
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Prepare the panda ears. Cut oﬀ   a third of each M&M with a sharp 
knife and use the remaining two-thirds for the ears. Set aside.
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 
16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, attach 2 of the M&M’s pieces in posi-
tion for the ears. Hold in place for a few seconds until the candy coating sets like glue, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach 1 black 
miniature heart sprinkle. 
Use a black candy writer to pipe coating on either side of the nose, 
in position for the eyes. Attach 2 miniature white confetti sprinkles 
before the coating sets. Let dry completely. 
Use the black edible-ink pen to draw on the mouth and pupils for
the eyes.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
Optional:  T o make girl pandas, use a pink heart sprinkle for the nose. 
Y ou can also make a bow using 2 blue heart sprinkles, attached with 
the pointed ends facing each other, and 1 blue confetti sprinkle over-
lapping the center. Attach each piece by using a toothpick to apply melted candy coating as glue.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 121
Monkey Business
Use peanut butter morsels and candy coating wafers to decorate 
these monkey cake pops. Make them with chocolate cake and frost-
ing and you won’t be sorry.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 peanut butter morsels96 peach jumbo confetti sprinklesStyrofoam blockT oothpicks96 black confetti sprinkles48 peanut butter candy coating wafers48 brown rainbow chip sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, attach the pointed side of 2 peanut 
butter morsels in position for the eyes, and insert 2 peach jumbo confetti sprinkles on each side of the cake pop for the ears. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating on each peanut butter morsel, and attach 2 black confetti sprinkles to ﬁ  nish the eyes. 
Apply melted candy coating to the back of a peanut butter candy 
coating wafer and place it on the pop, slightly overlapping the bot-tom of the peanut butter morsel eyes, to create the mouth area. 
Hold it in place until the coating sets like glue.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry and repeat with the remain-
ing pops.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose and attach 1 brown 
rainbow chip sprinkle.
Draw a big smile with a black edible-ink pen across the width of the 
peanut butter coating wafer, and let dry completely.TipsTips
•  If you don’t have a microwave-safe bowl large enough for 
3 pounds of candy coating, you can work in batches, 
melting more coating as you need it. Keep in mind that the 
shade of black may not match from one batch to another. 
•  To create ears that are more subtle in appearance, attach 
them to the cake pop before you dip. Just add a little 
coating to the bottom of each morsel and attach them in 
position for the ears. Let dry in the Styrofoam block, and then dip the entire cake pop, with ears attached. See the Owls on page 132 for an example.CAKE POP PROJECTS 123
Black Cats
Use black candy coloring to make these cake pops “purr”-fect 
for Halloween.  
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowlBlack candy coloring (not food coloring)48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block96 chocolate chipsKitchen knifeT oothpicks48 red rainbow chip sprinkles96 yellow or white oval sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
Tint the coating with black candy coloring. Keep adding color, stir-
ring, until the coating is dark enough.
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Let dry in the Styrofoam block.
Now work on the ears. Submerge the chocolate chips in the black 
candy coating, one at a time. Remove (you can use the end of a kitchen knife to lift them out) and attach 2 to the top of each pop 
for the ears. Hold them in place until the candy coating sets like 
glue, and place in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat until all the cake pops have black ears.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the nose, and attach a red rain-bow chip sprinkle. Use the same technique to attach 2 oval sprinkles 
for the eyes. 
Using a black edible-ink pen, draw a straight line down the center of 
each oval sprinkle to ﬁ  nish the eyes. Let dry completely.
note:  Y ou can also use round confetti sprinkles for the eyes.CAKE POP PROJECTS 125
Jack-o’-Lanterns
Trick or treat. Here’s something cute to eat. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) orange candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks48 green Tic Tac mints or similarly shaped candyStyrofoam blockBlack edible-ink penTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the orange candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, fol-
lowing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 
3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Immediately insert a Tic Tac on the very top of the pumpkin pop. 
Hold in place until set, and let dry completely in the Styrofoam 
block. Repeat with the remaining pumpkins until they all have stems.
Draw on jack-o’-lantern faces with a black edible-ink pen, and let dry 
completely in the Styrofoam block.CAKE POP PROJECTS 127
Draw surprised, scary, or just plain silly faces on these ghosts 
for a giggle.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into bell shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few shaped cake balls at a 
time from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into 
the melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the 
bottom of a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway 
through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   
any excess coating, as described on page 36.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.
Draw eyes and a mouth with a black edible-ink pen, and let dry 
completely in the Styrofoam block.Ghostly Goodies
TipTip
•  Y ou can easily transform these into skulls. Just reshape the 
rolled cake balls into skull shapes. Visualize a light bulb as 
you hand-form the shapes. Then just draw on skull faces 
with a black edible-ink pen.
TipTip
•  The hats are delicate and may not do well if you will be 
transporting or wrapping the pops. These would be better 
served at a home Halloween gathering.CAKE POP PROJECTS 129
Spooky Witches
Cookies and candies create cute hats to top oﬀ   these 
Halloween treats.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into oval shapes
24 Oreos Table knife48 ounces (3 pounds) dark green candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks48 green Tic Tac mintsLicorice wheels, cut into 192 pieces, each
 11⁄2 inches long 
Styrofoam blockT oothpicks96 orange jimmies48 Hershey’s Kisses Brand Special Dark ChocolatesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the oval cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Separate the Oreos, scraping oﬀ   the cream center with a table knife, 
so that you have 48 hat pieces; set aside. 
Melt the dark green candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 
16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few shaped cake balls at a time 
from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick in the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the 
cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36.
Before the coating sets, attach a Tic Tac in position for the nose and 
an Oreo cookie half on top for the hat. Attach two 11⁄2-inch licorice 
wheel sections on either side of the witch’s head for hair. Hold them 
in place until the candy coating sets like glue, and Place in the Styro-
foam block to dry. Y ou can add more coating on the sides to attach the pieces if the coating sets too fast.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the eyes, and attach 2 orange jimmies on each cake pop.  
T o ﬁ  nish the hats, tear oﬀ   the paper sticking out of each Hershey’s 
Kiss, and use a toothpick to apply a small amount of coating on the 
center of the Oreo hat bottom. Attach the wrapped chocolate candy in place and let dry.
Draw mouths with a black edible-ink pen, and let dry completely in 
the Styrofoam block.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 131
Yummy Mummies
Use a squeeze bottle to pipe on white candy coating for easy 
mummy faces.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into oval shapes
64 ounces (4 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam blockLarge squeeze bottleGreen candy writerTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of 
a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the 
cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36. 
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
Pour the remaining melted white coating into a large squeeze bottle 
and pipe lines across the front of each mummy face. Let dry com-pletely in the Styrofoam block.
Use a green candy writer to pipe two dots on the front of each cake 
pop for the eyes.
Let dry completely.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 133
These cake pops are a hoot with their big eyes and sprinkle feet.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed 
into rounded triangular shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 chocolate chipsStyrofoam blockT oothpicks 96 white candy necklace pieces48 orange rainbow chip sprinkles96 small pink ﬂ  ower sprinkles
96 brown M&M’s Minis  TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into 
the melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the 
pointed tip of the triangular cake ball, pushing it no more than half-
way through. Dip the bottoms of 2 chocolate chips into the melted candy coating, and attach them to the front top of the head for “ears.” Place in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
Dip the cake pops into the melted candy coating, as described on 
page 36. Make sure the coating is deep enough so you can get the entire cake pop, with ears attached, s ubmerged in one dunk. Remove 
and gently tap oﬀ   any excess coating. 
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry.When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for the eyes and attach 2 white 
candy necklace pieces.  
Using the same technique, dot candy coating in position for the 
beak, and attach an orange rainbow chip sprinkle. Then attach 
2 pink ﬂ  ower sprinkles for the feet and 2 brown M&M’s Minis for the wings.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.Owls
CAKE POP PROJECTS 135
T urkey Time
Serve these on Thanksgiving Day and your guests will gobble 
them right up. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks48 pretzel sticks, broken in halfStyrofoam block240 caramel candy corn pieces (14 ounces)T oothpicks48 candy-coated espresso beans, in shades of brown48 orange rainbow chip sprinkles48 red miniature heart sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be 
about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, 
pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the 
melted candy coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as described 
on page 36.
Immediately insert the tips of 2 pretzel stick halves into the bottom 
of the turkey body, on either side of the lollipop stick, for legs. Hold them in place until the coating sets like glue. Repeat until all the cake pops have legs. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block. 
Dip the tips of 5 pieces of candy corn into the leftover melted candy 
coating, and attach them to the back of a cake pop for feathers. Hold them in place until the coating sets like glue. Repeat until all the cake 
pops have feathers. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block. 
Using a toothpick, apply a small amount of coating to the front and 
toward the top of the cake pop, and attach an espresso bean. Hold 
in place until the coating sets. Repeat  with the remaining pops and 
let dry completely.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
coating onto the espresso bean in position for the beak, and attach 
an orange rainbow chip sprinkle. Use the same technique to attach 
a red miniature heart sprinkle upside down under the beak for the wattle. Repeat with the remaining pops and let dry completely in the 
Styrofoam block.
Draw eyes on the espresso beans with a black edible-ink pen, and 
let dry completely.CAKE POP PROJECTS 137
Candles and color really make these shine. Add a decorative tag 
for a distinctive design.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
24 ounces white candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 six-inch white wax candles or paper lollipop sticksWhite sugar crystals2 large bowlsWax paperBaking sheet24 ounces light blue candy coatingBlue sugar crystalsTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the bottom end of a candle in the 
melted white candy coating, and insert it straight into a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip half of the cake pops into the melted white coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36. Hold the wax candle close to the cake pop or it will bend when you tap it.
Immediately sprinkle white sugar crystals on each cake pop until it 
is covered completely. Sprinkle over a large bowl and you can catch and reuse any sprinkles that fall into it.
Place the cake pops, ball-side down, on a wax paper–covered baking 
sheet, and let dry completely.
Repeat with the remaining cake pops using the blue candy coating 
and blue sugar crystals.
Let dry completely. 
note : Attach tags with tape for presentation, but make sure to 
remove them before you light the candles. Y ou can download a PDF for these tags at www.bakerella.com/tagsHanukkah Pops
CAKE POP PROJECTS 139
Reindeer
Miniature pretzels make perfect reindeer antlers. Complete the 
look with red or dark brown candies for noses. 
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11)
48 ounces (3 pounds) chocolate candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks96 miniature E-, F-, and Y -shaped alphabet pretzels Styrofoam blockT oothpicks48 brown M&M’s, red Lemonheads, or red peanut M&M’s 96 miniature white confetti sprinklesBlack edible-ink pen
TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the chocolate candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap off any excess coating, as described on page 36.Immediately attach 2 pretzels on either side of each reindeer head 
for antlers. Hold them in place until the candy coating sets like glue, and let dry in the Styrofoam block. 
Use a toothpick to dot a small amount of melted candy coating in 
position for the nose, and attach 1 brown or red candy. Hold in place until the coating sets.
Use a toothpick to dot a small amount of coating in position for the 
eyes, and attach 2 white miniature confetti sprinkles. Let dry com-pletely in the Styrofoam block.
Draw mouths and dot the eyes with a black edible-ink pen. 
Let dry completely. 
TipsTips
•   If you can’t ﬁ  nd pretzels in alphabet shapes, just use mini 
or regular pretzel twists and break them in half for a pair of antlers.
•  The antlers will be delicate. Be extra careful when transport-ing these.
CAKE POP PROJECTS 141
Simple Santa Hats
These Santa hat cake pops make sweet stocking stuﬀ  ers.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into cone shapes
16 ounces (1 pound) white candy coating2 deep, microwave-safe plastic bowls48 paper lollipop sticksStyrofoam block48 ounces (3 pounds) red candy coating48 white chocolate–coated espresso beansWhite sugar crystal sprinkles TO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, 
following the instructions on the package. 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
Hold the top part of the hat, and dip the bottom in the melted white 
coating, covering it about one-third of the way up. The top two-thirds of the hat will still be exposed. Insert a lollipop stick into the ﬂ  at bot-
tom of the hat. Place in the Styrofoam block to dry. 
Melt the red candy coating in the second microwave-safe plastic 
bowl. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.) Dip the tops of the Santa hats in the red candy coating so that it meets the edge of the white coating. 
Place an espresso bean on the top of the hat before the coating sets, 
and let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
When the pops are dry, gently twist and remove the lollipop stick 
from the cake pop. Holding the pop by the top of the hat, redip the bottom in the melted white coating to make the coating thicker at the bottom. Then dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating and insert it back into the bottom of the Santa hat. Sprinkle with white sugar crystals until the white candy coating is covered, and let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.TipTip
•  White gumballs and yogurt-covered peanuts will also work 
for the top of the hat.CAKE POP PROJECTS 143
Cheery Christmas Trees
Use multicolored rainbow chip sprinkles to decorate Christmas tree 
cake pops. T op them oﬀ   with jumbo star sprinkles.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into cone shapes
48 ounces (3 pounds) dark green candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticksT oothpicks48 yellow jumbo star sprinklesStyrofoam blockMulticolored rainbow chip sprinklesTO DECORATE
Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. 
Melt the green candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, fol-
lowing the instructions on the package. Make sure the bowl is ﬁ  lled 
deep enough with candy coating that you can submerge the entire cone-shaped cake pop in one dunk. 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled. 
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the ﬂ  at bot-
tom of a shaped cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the melted candy coating, and tap oﬀ   any 
excess coating, as described on page 36. 
Before the coating sets, use a toothpick to drag gently through the 
coating, creating branches. Just touch the toothpick on the wet coat-ing and pull it away from the pop several times. Y ou can also use the toothpick to apply more coating to the cake pop if necessary. Then place a jumbo star sprinkle on top of the tree.
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.When the trees are dry, use a toothpick to apply dots of melted 
green candy coating to the tree in the places where you want orna-ments, and attach multicolored rainbow chip sprinkles. 
Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
TipTip
•    If you don’t want branches, forget the toothpick and just go 
ahead and attach the rainbow chip sprinkles to the smooth surface of the tree-shaped cake pops. CAKE POP PROJECTS 145
Sweet Snowmen
Warm anyone’s heart in the cold of winter with these 
cheerful treats.
YOU’LL NEED
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls (page 11), formed into pear shapes 
48 ounces (3 pounds) white candy coatingDeep, microwave-safe plastic bowl48 paper lollipop sticks48 orange candy-coated sunﬂ  ower seeds
96 chocolate jimmies Styrofoam blockT oothpicks144 blue miniature confetti sprinkles Black edible-ink penSmall squeeze bottle48 Murray Sugar-Free Chocolate Bites cookies48 large dark chocolate chips, such as GhirardelliTO DECORATE
Have the pear-shaped cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator. Melt 
the white candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, follow-ing the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.) 
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from 
the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled.
One at a time, dip about 
1⁄2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into the bottom of a snowman body, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap oﬀ   any excess coating, as 
described on page 36.
While the coating is still wet, attach a sunﬂ  ower seed in position for 
the nose and 2 chocolate jimmies in position for the arms. Hold each in place for a few seconds until the candy coating sets like glue, then place in the Styrofoam block to dry. Repeat until all the snowmen have noses and arms.
When the pops are dry, use a toothpick to dot a small amount of 
melted candy coating in position for buttons and attach 3 blue con-fetti sprinkles to each snowman.
Draw on eyes and a dotted smile with an edible-ink pen and let dry 
completely in the Styrofoam block.
Pour the remaining melted coating into a small squeeze bottle. 
Squeeze a small amount onto the very top of a snowman’s head. Attach 1 chocolate cookie. Squeeze another small amount of coating in the center opening of the cookie. Push 1 chocolate chip, pointed-side down, into the center. As you push, the melted candy coating will be forced up the side, giving you a white rim for the hat.
Place in the Styrofoam block to dry completely.
It’s a good idea to start out making cake pops 
using a box cake mix and ready-made frost-ing. 
The results are dependable, and there’s no need 
to wonder if your homemade cake recipe makes the right amount of cake to accompany your homemade frosting recipe. The proportions are pretty perfect. Cake mixes are consistent that way, and that’s why I like using them to make cake pops. But if you want to branch out beyond the box, here are a few basic recipes to get you started. These recipes yield about 60 cake balls or pops. Use them with one of the frost-ing recipes to maintain a good cake-to-frosting ratio when making cake balls.
 But feel free to experiment 
with your own cake and frosting recipes.Cake & Frostingrecipes148CAKE POPS
Cake Recipes
YELLOW CAKE 
3 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our (spooned and leveled)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup butter, at room temperature2 cups sugar4 eggs, at room temperature2 teaspoons vanilla extract1 cup milk, at room temperature
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and ﬂ  our a 9-by-13 inch 
cake pan.
In a large bowl, whisk together the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and salt. 
Set aside.
Cream the butter and sugar with a mixer for 5 minutes, until light 
and ﬂ  uﬀ  y.
Add the eggs, one at a time, to the creamed sugar and butter, mixing 
until just combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl after each addition. Add the vanilla and mix until combined.
Add the ﬂ  our mixture, a third at a time, alternating with the milk in 
two additions. (Y ou’ll begin and end with the ﬂ  our mixture.)
Spread the batter (it will be thick) evenly into the prepared pan.Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center 
comes out clean.
Let the cake cool completely before crumbling for cake balls.CHOCOLATE CAKE  
21/2 cups all-purpose ﬂ  our (spooned and leveled)
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder1 teaspoon baking soda2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup butter, at room temperature2 cups sugar3 eggs, at room temperature1 teaspoon vanilla extract1
1/2 cups milk, at room temperature
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and ﬂ  our a 9-by-13 inch 
cake pan.
In a large bowl, whisk together the ﬂ  our, cocoa powder, baking soda, 
baking powder, and salt. Set aside.
Cream the butter and sugar with a mixer for 5 minutes, until light 
and ﬂ  uﬀ  y.
Add the eggs, one at a time, to the creamed sugar and butter, mix-
ing until just combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl after each addition. A dd the vanilla and mix until combined.
Add the ﬂ  our mixture, a third at a time, alternating with the milk in 
two additions. (Y ou’ll begin and end with the ﬂ  our mixture.)
Spread the batter (it will be thick) evenly into the prepared pan.Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center 
comes out clean.
Let the cake cool completely before crumbling for cake balls.CAKE & FROSTING RECIPES 149
VANILLA FROSTING
3/4 cup butter, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract3 cups confectioners’ sugar1 to 2 teaspoons milk, if needed
Cream the butter and vanilla with a mixer until combined.
Add the sugar to the creamed mixture in two or three batches, 
scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition.
If needed, add the milk to make the frosting creamier.
CREAM CHEESE FROSTING
6 tablespoons butter, at room temperature
6 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature1 teaspoon vanilla extract3 cups confectioners’ sugar
Cream the butter and cream cheese with a mixer until combined.
Add the vanilla and mix until combined.Add the sugar to the creamed mixture in two or three batches, 
scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition.CHOCOLATE FROSTING
3/4 cup butter, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract3 cups confectioners’ sugar
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 to 2 teaspoons milk, if needed
Cream the butter and vanilla with a mixer until combined.
Add the sugar to the creamed mixture in two or three batches, 
scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition.
Add the cocoa powder and mix until combined.If needed, add the milk to make the frosting creamier.
CHOCOLATE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING  
6 tablespoons butter, at room temperature 
6 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature1 teaspoon vanilla extract3 cups confectioners’ sugar
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
Cream the butter and cream cheese with a mixer until combined.
Add the vanilla and mix until combined.Add the sugar to the creamed mixture in two or three batches, 
scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition.
Add the cocoa powder and mix until combined.Frosting RecipesSo now you know how to make cake 
pops. But you may be wondering, “How am I going 
to present them?” Here are several approaches to try. From do-it-yourself displays to custom-built stands, there are many ways to help your cake pop creations shine like pop stars.
Y ou can also use these tag designs to help your tiny 
treats make a big impression. 
Visit www.bakerella.com/tags for downloadable 
designs.Displaying, Storing 
Shipping  & SuppliesCAKE POPS 152
DISPLAYING YOUR CAKE POPS 
STYROFOAM BLOCKS:  Used as a place to allow your cake pops to dry, 
they can also be covered in scrapbook paper for a pretty, easy, and inexpensive display. Measure your Styrofoam and cut a piece of paper to match the length and width of the block. Use plain paper for this, not decorative paper; it will serve as a template. Placing them 2 inches apart, make marks on the paper where the holes will be, using a pencil. Place the paper over the Styrofoam and poke through the paper at the marks with the tip of a pencil. Then mark each spot on the Styrofoam with a marker. Remove the paper and use a paper lollipop stick to poke holes into the Styrofoam. T ry to insert the stick as straight into the Styrofoam as possible, without poking all the way through it. Wrap the Styrofoam block in decora-tive paper. Place the paper template on top of the wrapped Styro-foam and mark the hole locations with a pencil. This time, make a few tiny holes with the end of a needle, so you’ll be able to insert the lollipop stick through without ripping the decorative paper. Be careful when removing cake pops from a Styrofoam block. If all the cake pops are removed from one side, the weight of the pops on the other side can cause the Styrofoam to tip over. GLASSWARE:  Glass dishes ﬁ  lled with sugar make an eye-pleasing 
display for cake pops. The sugar should be deep enough to keep the sticks standing upright. Y ou can also ﬁ  ll deep glass dishes with gumballs, M&M’s, or even marbles for a decorative approach. Glass candy dishes with lids are also a pretty way to display and store cake balls. 
BOUQUETS:  Y ou can use a ﬂ  owerpot or basket to display cake pops. 
Place a Styrofoam ball or block inside the basket so that it’s secure. Then arrange the cake pops in the Styrofoam. Y ou can disguise the Styrofoam ball by ﬁ  lling in around the sticks with paper confetti, ribbon, streamers, or some other fun decoration.
PAINTED WOOD DISPLAYS:  Y ou’ll need a drill and a ruler for this one. 
Mark holes 2 inches apart on a piece of wood that is about 2 inches thick. Make a mark on the drill bit about 
   13⁄4 inches from the tip, so 
that you don’t drill all the way through the wood. Drill a hole slightly smaller than the diameter of the lollipop sticks you have chosen for a secure ﬁ  t. Lighter wood with less grain will look the best. Use a drill 
bit slightly larger than the thickness of your lollipop stick.
LOLLIPOP STANDS:  Super-cute premade displays are a great way 
to go if you’re in a hurry. They’re also called lollipop trees or sucker displays. Wilton.com carries a convenient lollipop and treat stand, and if you’re feeling crafty you can make one (go to www.marthastewartweddings.com/article/lollipop-stand-how-to).
GIFT TAGS, TREAT BAGS, AND RIBBON:  Individual cake pops make a 
great impression when given as gifts. Simply wrap each cake pop in a small plastic treat bag, and tie with decorative ribbon. Y ou can make them even more special by including a sweet note. Use a 2- to 3-inch-wide paper punch, available in craft stores, and punch shapes out of heavyweight card stock. Then use a regular hole punch to make two holes on either side of the shape. Add a hand-written note, and slide the tag onto the lollipop stick. Or use a computer to typeset the message you want on card stock and use a large paper punch to punch around it. Or skip all of that and visit www.bakerella.com/tags for a few downloadable designs.
154CAKE POPS
STORING AND SHIPPING CAKE POPS
Storage
Cake pops made with a cake mix and ready-made frosting can be stored in an airtight container on the counter. If you wrap them indi-vidually in treat bags tied with ribbon, they can stand in the Styro-foam block until ready to serve.
Cake pops made with homemade ingredients that are perishable, 
such as cream cheese frosting, should be stored in the refrigerator, either in an airtight container or wrapped in treat bags.
Cake pops will last for several days and can be made a few days 
before an event. The ﬁ  nished pops can also be stored in the freezer 
if you need to make them further in advance. 
note:  Manufacturers do not recommend storing candy coating in 
the refrigerator or freezer. But I have had success with storing the ﬁ nished pops by wrapping in individual treat bags tied with a ribbon 
and placing them in an airtight container.Shipping
Cake pops, bites, and balls are surprisingly easy to ship. Look for pastry boxes to place them in.
Cover cake pops with treat bags tied with ribbon, and then lay 
them in alternating directions in a small pastry or cake box. Use tissue paper to ﬁ  ll in any gaps and to keep the pops from sliding around in the box.
Y ou can place cake balls and cupcake bites in paper or foil candy 
cups or use candy wrappers before mailing them in pastry boxes. 
Tape the box shut and place it in a larger box surrounded by packing 
material. Ship them overnight to ensure freshness.
155
SuppliesDISPLAYING, STORING, SHIPPING & SUPPLIES
Cake and Candy Making  
Candy coatings, candy molds, lollipop sticks, treat bags, and more can 
be found at the following online sources.
 • Cake Art: www.cakeart.com
 • Candyland Crafts: www.candylandcrafts.com
 • CK Products: www.ckproducts.com
 • Confectionery House: www.confectioneryhouse.com
 • Kitchenkrafts.com: www.kitchenkrafts.com
Candy 
Grocery stores, drugstores, and even gas stations carry a wide assortment 
of candies to get your creative juices ﬂ  owing. Here are a few online options as well. 
 
• Candy Direct: www.candydirect.com
 • Candy Warehouse: www.candywarehouse.com
 • Dylan’s Candy Bar: www.dylanscandybar.com
 • M&M’s: www.mms.com (purchase the color you want)
Candy Coatings
Chocolate, vanilla, and colored candy coatings are available from 
Merckens, Make ’n Mold, and Wilton. Chocolate and vanilla varieties are 
also available from the Kroger grocery store chain. Other brands avail-able: Plymouth Pantry Almond Bark, Ambrosia Bark Coating, and Clasen 
Confectionery Coatings.
 • Kroger: www.kroger.com
 • Make ’n Mold: www.makenmold.com
 •  Merckens: available from cake and candy suppliers
 • Wilton: www.wilton.com
Candy Coloring
 •  Chefmaster candy color: available from cake and candy suppliers
 • Make ’n Mold: www.makenmold.com 
 • Wilton: www.wilton.comCandy Molds
 •  CK Products: www.ckproducts.com (medium candy cup mold, product 
number: 90-5607; dome truﬄ   e mold, product number: 90-5651; disc 
mold, product number: 90-5022)
 •  Life of the Party: www.lifeofthepartymolds.com (medium candy cup 
mold, product number: AO032 ; Square mold, product number: 
AO107) 
Candy Oil
 • LorAnn Oils: www.lorannoils.com
Edible-Ink Pens
 • Americolor: www.americolorcorp.com
Flower Cookie Cutters (for Cupcake Pops)
 •  Williams-Sonoma (available in a mini-cutter set in retail stores)
 • Wilton (av ailable in mini sets)
 • Ateco (av ailable in mini-cutter set number 4848)
Sprinkles (For Cupcake Pops)  
 •   Mr.Sprinkles: www.mr-sprinkles.com
Note:  Now only available in all natural colors.
Craft Stores 
Retail craft stores also carry most of the basics you’ll need for many 
of the projects.
 • Jo-Ann Fabric and Craft Stores: www.joann.com
 • Michaels: www.michaels.com
 • Hobby Lobby: www.hobbylobby.com
 • A.C. Moore: www.acmoore.com156CAKE POPS
Cake Pop Projects Photo Index
Page 49
Page 63
Page 81
Page 97
Page 119
Page 133Page 53
Page 69
Page 85
Page 103
Page 123
Page 137Page 59
Page 77
Page 95
Page 111
Page 129
Page 143Page 51
Page 67
Page 83
Page 99
Page 121
Page 135Page 57
Page 75
Page 93
Page 108
Page 127
Page 141Page 55
Page 73
Page 89
Page 105
Page 125
Page 139Page 61
Page 79
Page 91
Page 117
Page 131
Page 145
INDEX 157
A
Apple Pops, 75
B
Baby Faces, 81
Ball Cupcake Bites, Game, 97–98Barnyard Friends, 105–7Bears
Brown Bears, 114Koala Bears, 117Panda Bears, 119
Bloom, 28Bride and Groom Cake Pops, 79Brown Bears, 114Bunny Pops, Pastel, 55
C
Cake pops and cake balls. See also individual projects
Basic Cake Balls, 11–12Basic Cake Pops, 15–16decorating, 42–45dipping, 36displaying, 152equipment for, 39, 40–41ﬂ avor combinations for, 30
ingredients for, 40shaping, 32shipping, 154smaller numbers of, 31, 46storing, 154troubleshooting, 28Cakes
adapting homemade recipes for, 30Chocolate Cake, 148choosing, 40crumbling, 30Y ellow Cake, 148
Candy coating
buying, 40chocolate as substitute for, 28, 33colors of, 33, 34ﬂ avoring, 34
melting, 33storing, 32thinning, 33troubleshooting, 28varieties of, 14, 32
Candy coloring, 40Candy ﬂ  avoring oils, 40
Candy molds, 41Candy writers, 40Cats, Black, 123Chickens, 107Chicks, Spring, 53Chocolate
as candy coating substitute, 28, 33Chocolate Cake, 148Chocolate Cream Cheese Frosting, 149Chocolate Cupcake Pops, 69–71Chocolate Frosting, 149
Christmas
Cheery Christmas T rees, 143Index158CAKE POPS
Reindeer, 139
Simple Santa Hats, 141Sweet Snowmen, 145
Clowning Around, 63–65Cow Pops, 106Cream cheese
Chocolate Cream Cheese Frosting, 149Cream Cheese Frosting, 149
Cupcake pops and cupcake bites
Basic Cupcake Bites, 25–26Basic Cupcake Pops, 19–22Chocolate Cupcake Pops, 69–71dipping, 36–37Game Ball Cupcake Bites, 97–98Pool Party Pops, 85–87
D
Dipping methods, 36–37Display tips, 152
E
Easter
Confetti Easter Eggs, 59Easter Baskets, 61–62Pastel Bunny Pops, 55Spring Chicks, 53
Equipment, 39, 40–41
F
Froggies, 103Frostings
Chocolate Cream Cheese Frosting, 149Chocolate Frosting, 149
choosing, 40Cream Cheese Frosting, 149Vanilla Frosting, 149
G
Game Ball Cupcake Bites, 97–98Ghostly Goodies, 127Graduation Caps, 83–84
H
Halloween
Black Cats, 123Ghostly Goodies, 127Jack-o’-Lanterns, 125Owls, 133Skulls, 127Spooky Witches, 129Yummy Mummies, 131
Hanukkah Pops, 137Hearts, Sweet, 49
I
Ice Cream Cone Sundaes, 67–68
J
Jack-o’-Lanterns, 125
K
Koala Bears, 117INDEX 159
L
Ladybugs, Lovely Little, 99–101
Lions, Little, 111
M
Martians, 89Monkey Business, 121Monster Pops, 93Mummies, Yummy, 131
O
Owls, 133
P
Panda Bears, 119Paramount crystals, 40Pens, edible-ink, 39, 40Piggies, Pink, 105Pirate Pops, 95Pool Party Pops, 85–87Popcorn Bags, 73Puppy Pops, 108–10
R
Reindeer, 139Robots, 91
S
Santa Hats, Simple, 141Sheep, Sugar, 57Shipping tips, 154Skulls, 127
Snowmen, Sweet, 145Spring Chicks, 53Spring Fling, 51Sprinkles, 42, 43Storage tips, 154Strawberry Patch Pops, 77Supplies, 155Sweet Hearts, 49
T
Thanksgiving
T urkey Time, 135
Tigers, Tiny, 113T oothpicks, 39, 41T roubleshooting, 28T urkey Time, 135
V
Valentine’s Day
Sweet Hearts, 49
Vanilla Frosting, 149
W
Weddings
Bride and Groom Cake Pops, 79
Witches, Spooky, 129
Y
Y ellow Cake, 148Table of Equivalents
LIQUID/DRY MEASUREMENTS
U.S. Metric
1⁄4  teaspoon 1.25 milliliters
1⁄2 teaspoon 2.5 milliliters
1 teaspoon 5 milliliters1 tablespoon (3 teaspoons) 15 milliliters1 ﬂ uid ounce (2 tablespoons) 30 milliliters
1⁄4   cup 60 milliliters
1⁄3 cup 80 milliliters
1⁄2 cup 120 milliliters
1 cup 240 milliliters1 pint (2 cups) 480 milliliters1 quart (4 cups, 32 ounces) 960 milliliters1 gallon (4 quarts) 3.84 liters1 ounce (by weight) 28 grams1 pound 448 grams2.2 pounds 1 kilogramLENGTHS
U.S. Metric
1⁄8 inch 3 millimeters
1⁄4   inch 6 millimeters
1⁄2 inch 12 millimeters
1 inch 2.5 centimeters
OVEN TEMPERATURE
Fahrenheit Celsius Gas250 120 
1⁄2
275 140 1
300 150 2325 160 3350 180 4375 190 5400 200 6425 220 7450 230 8475 240 9500 260 10The exact equivalents in the following tables have been rounded for convenience.Copyright © 2010 by Angie Dudley.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced  
in any form without written permission from the publisher.
ISBN 978-1-4521-0012-8The Library of Congress previously cataloged this title under ISBN 978-0-8118-7637-7Designed by Anne Donnard 
T ypesetting by RISE-AND-SHINE STUDIO
Chronicle Books LLC 
680 Second Street San Francisco, California 94107 www.chroniclebooks.com