List of Interviews
   ixAdam Savage  on Scientific Testing  .................................. 16
Jacques Pépin  on Cooking  .......................................... 24
Deborah Madison  on Eating Alone  ................................. 29
Buck Raper  on Knives  .............................................. 40
Adam Ried  on Kitchen Equipment  .................................. 51
Linda Bartoshuk  on Taste and Pleasure  ............................. 86
Brian Wansink  on Expectations, Flavor, and Eating  ................. 101
Lydia Walshin  on Unfamiliar Ingredients  ........................... 110
Tim Wiechmann and Linda Anctil  on Seasonal Inspiration  ......... 121
Gail Vance Civille  on Learning Flavors  .............................. 132
Doug Powell  on Food Safety  ....................................... 178
Bridget Lancaster  on Cooking Misconceptions  ..................... 231
Jim Lahey  on Baking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260
Jeff Varasano  on Pizza  ............................................. 269
David Lebovitz  on American and French Cooking  .................. 302
Douglas Baldwin  on Sous Vide Cooking  ............................ 327
Dave Arnold  on Industrial Hardware  ............................... 358
Nathan Myhrvold  on Modernist Cuisine  ........................... 372
Carolyn Jung’s  Preserved Lemons  .................................. 387
Hervé This  on Molecular Gastronomy  .............................. 390
Ann Barrett  on Texture  ............................................ 412
Benjamin Wolfe  on Molds and Cheese  ............................. 434
Harold McGee  on Solving Food Mysteries  .......................... 438
x Cooking for GeeksHow to Contact Us
Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the publisher:
O’Reilly Media, Inc.
1005 Gravenstein Highway North
Sebastopol, CA 95472
800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)
707-829-0515 (international or local)
707 829-0104 (fax)
We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples, and any additional 
information. You can access this page at:
http://bit.ly/cooking-for-geeks-2e
To comment or ask technical questions about this book, send email to:
bookquestions@oreilly.com
For more information about our books, conferences, Resource Centers, and the O’Reilly 
Network, see our website at http://www.oreilly.com .
Find us on Facebook: http://facebook.com/oreilly
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/oreillymedia
Watch us on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/oreillymedia
Safari® Books Online
Safari Books Online ( http://safaribooksonline.com ) is an on-demand 
digital library that delivers expert content  in both book and video 
form from the world’s leading authors in technology and business. 
Technology professionals, software developers, web designers, and business and creative 
professionals use Safari Books Online as their primary resource for research, problem 
solving, learning, and certification training.
Safari Books Online offers a range of product mixes  and pricing programs for organizations , 
government  agencies , and individuals . Subscribers have access to thousands of books, 
training videos, and prepublication manuscripts in one fully searchable database from 
publishers like O’Reilly Media, Prentice Hall Professional, Addison-Wesley Professional, 
Microsoft Press, Sams, Que, Peachpit Press, Focal Press, Cisco Press, John Wiley & Sons, 
Syngress, Morgan Kaufmann, IBM Redbooks, Packt, Adobe Press, FT Press, Apress, Manning, 
New Riders, McGraw-Hill, Jones & Bartlett, Course Technology, and dozens more . For more 
information about Safari Books Online, please visit us online .YOU MIGHT BE A GEEK AND NOT EVEN KNOW IT. Are you curious about how the 
world works and enjoy figuring out why something ticks? If so, you’re probably a geek, the 
type of person who would rather be handed a box full of tools, kitchen stuff, or bicycle parts 
and be let loose to play than be told what to do. Geeks can be found in all walks of life, from 
politics to sports and, yes, technology too. Even if you don’t identify with my definition of 
geek— smart  and curious —taking those qualities into the kitchen will allow you to discover 
amazing new things.
The kitchen can be a fun, interesting, and sometimes challenging place. My first culinary 
memories are of my dad, a physicist, teaching me how to make pancakes. When I was 
growing up, my family used food as a way to connect, grilling burgers for Sunday Football  
and feasting on turkey during Thanksgiving. When I left for college, 
I discovered how little I knew. (I think I know even less now!) My 
parents had taken time to cook with me and we’d eat together, but 
I’d never learned to cook chicken or sauté vegetables.
My first real challenge in learning to cook was making a good 
home-cooked dinner like the ones I’d grown up with. I was a 
culinary novice geek, not sure where to start but curious and 
open-minded. I eventually succeeded and now consider 
myself a good home cook, but could have done with fewer 
strange dishes in my learning process. (Pasta tossed with 
salmon? Chicken breasts simmered in red wine?) Much of 
my learning was trial and error. I’ve never enjoyed following 
traditional recipes and at the time there weren’t any 
cookbooks that taught the intuition of cooking using science 
explanations. While writing this book, I thought of myself Introduction
Geek
DweebDorkCurious
AwkwardSmart
   1Cooking for Geeks 2
learning to cook—someone who wanted fun and interesting ideas to try in the kitchen but 
not a strict recipe that must be followed. What would I have wanted to read as I embarked 
on my first culinary adventures?
A few years after graduating from college and having become comfortable cooking dinner, 
I started cooking for friends, throwing parties and inviting folks to join me at the dinner 
table. Cooking brought community, and my community, being full of geeks studying 
science in grad school, brought questions like “Why?” and “How?” These are the sorts 
of questions that aren’t easily answered by trial and error, leading to conversations and 
online searches about frying pans and spices and nutrition and a thousand other topics. 
These were the deeper, geekier questions, revealing scientific insights into ingredients and 
techniques, inspiring off-recipe adventures in new directions.
Then something funny happened. After I gave a talk on sous vide cooking (see page 325), 
someone asked if I might be interested in writing a book on cooking. “Sure, ” I said, “how hard 
can it possibly be?” (People who answer “no” to this know more than I did at the time—and 
as I said, I think I know even less now!) What you’re reading is the result of an unimaginable 
amount of time spent coming up with what I consider fun, useful, and interesting culinary 
knowledge, intended to inspire both culinary novices and professionals alike.
Regardless of what type of geek you are, as long as you approach the kitchen with curiosity, 
you’ll do wonderfully. Please don’t feel the need to start with the first chapter.  Recipes and 
experiments are sprinkled throughout the text, along with interviews with scientists, 
researchers, and chefs. Flip through and start wherever you’re curious! Here’s a brief guide 
to get you started:
New to the kitchen? 
Then curl up with a cup of your $favorite_beverage  (programming joke; I 
promise to sneak in a few for the software geeks out there), start at the beginning of 
Chapter 1, and give yourself time to get your bearings.
Looking to learn about science? 
Either jump right into Chapter 2, or if you want to get your hands wet, take a look at the 
list of activities on page viii for ideas. (After the first edition of this book came out, I was 
asked by many teachers and parents for activities to do with learners. I snuck a few of 
them into the second edition, taking care that they’re also engaging to read.) There’s 
also a list of interviews with researchers and scientists on page ix. Personally, these 
interviews are my favorite part of the book.Introduction 3Wanting to just cook? 
Peruse the recipe index on page v and jump straight to your chosen recipe’s page. All of 
the recipes in this book were selected to connect some science concept to a real-world 
application. Most of the recipes are delicious on their own. The portions generally serve 
two to four people, but you’ll need to adjust and plan accordingly. These recipes are 
meant to be building blocks, not self-contained traditional ones, and you’re expected 
to adapt and modify them.
Regardless of where you start, I strongly  suggest that you scribble notes in the margins or 
on notepaper tucked into the pages. Jot reminders about what you’d do differently the 
next time you use a recipe. Circle things that you want to come back to. Write questions 
about topics that leave you perplexed or wondering. I learn the most and have the most fun 
when I tackle cooking with a scientist’s attitude, boldly exploring, coming up with ideas and 
testing them out. You should too. Experiment!
My first cookbook, circa 1984.
If you have a question or thought on something in this book—or notice a typo!—
visit http://www.cookingforgeeks.com  or http://www.jeffpotter.org  and send me a 
message. I enjoy hearing from readers; your questions help me learn too.
Chapter Contents
How to Think Like a Geek  ..................... 6
Know Your Cooking Style  ...................... 8
How to Read a Recipe  .......................... 11
Fear in the Kitchen  ............................. 14
A Brief History of the Recipe  ............... 18
Don’t Always Follow the Recipe  ............ 21
A Place for Everything and 
Everything in Its Place  .................... 26A Dinner Party for One  ........................ 28
The Power of a Dinner Party  ................ 30
Presentation and Plating  .............. 32
The Basics of Kitchen Equipment  .......... 34
Knives  ................................ 37
Cutting Boards ........................ 44
Pots and Pans  ........................ 45
Kitchen Equipment Essentials  ........ 48
Recipes
Internet Average Pancakes,  10
Oat and Egg White Frittata with 
Fruit,  13
Congee,  22
Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, and 
Cilantro Chicken,  28
One-Hour French Onion Soup,  38
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
Labs
The Sweet Way to Calibrate Your 
Oven,  36Interviews
Adam Savage on Scientific Testing,  16
Jacques Pépin on Cooking,  24
Deborah Madison on Eating Alone,  29
Buck Raper on Knives,  40
Adam Ried on Kitchen Equipment,  511
WE GEEKS ARE FASCINATED BY HOW THINGS WORK, AND MOST OF US EAT, TOO.
Learning to cook can be one of the most rewarding endeavors of your life. Cooking—and 
eating—is a fascinating puzzle with many layers that, like those in an onion, peel away only 
to reveal another layer. No one is ever done learning to cook.
To the beginner, cooking has many hidden rules. Learning them is not so much about rote 
memorization as it is about curiosity, and that’s something geeks have plenty of. With time, 
the hidden rules of the kitchen reveal themselves to be a combination of art and science, 
giving you the keys to the kitchen kingdom. It is a worthwhile quest. With good food, you 
can take better care of yourself and your health. And with knowledge of the kitchen, you 
can cook and provide for others, building friendships and community.
This chapter is about the ground rules for the game of learning to cook—that tough 
outer layer of the onion, if you will. It covers how to approach the kitchen. What 
does it mean to think like a geek? What type of cook are you? Where do recipes 
come from and how do you interpret them successfully? What tools should you 
have in your kitchen? What else might be important in cooking? To answer 
these kinds of questions, you need to start thinking like a geek.Hello, Kitchen!
If you’re already comfortable in the 
kitchen, skim this chapter and dig 
right into the science of taste, smell, 
and flavor in Chapter 2. 
   5Cooking for Geeks 6How to Think Like a Geek 
What does it mean to think like a geek in the kitchen?
In part, it’s technique and tools. Rolling pizza or pie dough to a uniform thickness can be 
hard, but slap a few rubber bands on each end of your rolling pin and you’ve got an instant 
autoleveling roller. Need to grill something, but don’t have a grill? Your oven’s broiler is 
extremely similar, but the heat comes from above, instead of from below. Spraying cooking 
oil onto a muffin tin? Open your dishwasher, set the tin on the opened door, and spray 
away—no messy counter to clean up, and the door will get cleaned on the next cycle.
Other times, thinking like a geek is about understanding why ingredients are being used. 
Following a recipe that uses white vinegar, but don’t have any? Lemon juice can work—if 
the recipe is using the ingredient as an acidifier and the taste won’t interfere. Making a dish 
that uses oregano for flavor, and you’re all out of it but do have thyme? The two herbs share 
common odor compounds and therefore are good  substitutes for each other. Wondering if 
you can substitute baking soda for baking powder in a cake? Not without adding the right 
amount of an acidic ingredient to react with the baking soda.
Sometimes thinking like a geek means being inventive in how you solve a problem—
coming up with a clever trick to get around something that’s broken or just seeing easier 
ways to do something. I know one person who tweeted, “My microwave has no 3 key, but I 
can enter 2:60. ” Clever! Another friend uses a mug as a pastry bag holder—instead of trying 
to spoon stuff into a bag while holding it, she just drops it in a mug or pitcher and folds the 
top down around the edge. Learning to think like a geek is seeing the “why?” behind the 
technique or ingredient, and then answering that question in a useful way. 
Here’s a thought experiment: imagine you’re given a candle, a book of matches, and a box 
of thumbtacks, and asked to mount the candle on a wall. Without burning down the house, 
how would you do it?
This experiment is called Duncker’s Candle Problem, 
after the German psychologist Karl Duncker, 
who studied the cognitive biases that we bring 
to problems. Things like the cardboard of the 
matchbook have a  “fixed function” of protecting the 
matches. We don’t normally think of the matchbook 
cover as a piece of thick cardboard that’s been folded If you were stranded on a tropical island, 
how could you start a fire with a can of 
soda and a bar of chocolate? Think like a 
geek and see past the functional fixedness! 
Use the chocolate to polish the bottom of 
the can to a mirrorlike finish, then use the 
polished bottom as a parabolic reflector to 
focus sunlight onto a dry twig. 
Functional unfixedness:  
use a wire strainer as a splatter guard.
How to Think Like a Geek 7over; we just see it functioning to protect the 
matches. As a result, other uses of the cardboard 
become invisible to us.
We’re blinded by functional fixedness everywhere. 
Recognizing that an object is capable of serving 
other functions requires  mental restructuring, 
whether it’s a rubber band on a rolling pin or 
lemon juice as an alternative acidifier. We see large 
wire mesh strainers as tools for straining pasta, 
but flipped upside down and placed on top of a 
frying pan, they work as splatter guards. Toaster 
ovens are perfectly serviceable for more than 
making toast: they heat air up to 350°F / 180°C, so why not poach fish in one if your oven is 
otherwise occupied? 
The obvious solutions to Duncker’s Candle Problem—pushing thumbtacks through 
the candle or melting the side of the candle so that it sticks to the wall—will either split 
the candle or set the wall on fire. The solution, at least the one Duncker was looking for, 
involves realizing that you have a box: the one that is holding the thumbtacks. Pin the box 
to the wall, stand the candle in the box, and light the candle. 
You should banish functional fixedness in the kitchen. In learning to cook, you’ll learn the 
most by figuring out the why behind each step in a recipe and exploring different possible 
answers. Even if you guess wrong, you’ll learn what does and doesn’t work, and in the 
process slowly build up a new, “functionally unfixed” view of the kitchen.
Duncker’s Candle Problem:  
how would you mount a candle to a wall, given a box of thumbtacks and a book of matches?
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 8Know Your Cooking Style 
Part of learning to think like a geek is understanding your temperament and style in the 
kitchen. Most of us think of there being two types of chefs: cooks and bakers. (Personally, 
I think there are two types of people: those who divide people into two kinds, and those 
who don’t.) Cooks have a reputation for an intuitive, “toss it into the pan” approach, 
pulling together whatever ingredients inspire them and correcting as they go. Bakers are 
typically described as precise, exact in their measurements, and methodically organized. 
Even culinary schools such as Le Cordon Bleu  split their programs into cooking (“cuisine”) 
and baking (“patisserie”), due to the differences in technique and execution. Professional 
line cooking requires prep work and then an on-demand, “order in!” portion. Professional 
pastry baking is almost always done production-style with a different set of techniques 
and completed well in advance of when the order comes in. For most of us cooking isn’t a 
profession, though, so dividing culinary types into two isn’t useful.
The most helpful way of thinking about types of cooks that I’ve come across is the research 
done by Brian Wansink, the director of the Cornell University Food and Brand Lab and 
author of Mindless Eating  (Bantam, 2006). Brian’s work is fascinating, finding all sorts of 
patterns in eating behaviors that can then be used to create healthier eating patterns.
Based on a survey of about a thousand home chefs from North America, Brian found five 
different types  of cooks. With his permission, I’m reproducing his short quiz here. It’s fun 
to see that any food TV show or cooking magazine that I can think of falls neatly into one 
of these five categories. In his research, he found that most people were roughly equally 
split between the five types that describe about 80–85% of us. The other 15–20% end up 
being combinations of two or three types, so don’t sweat it if you take the quiz and don’t 
fall squarely into one category. What I’ve found in talking with some geekier audiences—
full of scientists and software engineers—is a huge bias toward the innovative type of cook. 
There’s clearly a personality bent in these fields!
When cooking for others, keep in mind the possible combinations of different types of 
cooks and, by extension, eaters. Imagine you’re a health-driven eater being given food by 
someone who is a giving cook, who expresses affection with food. That plate of brownies 
is their way of saying, “I care about you!” So enjoy one, or at least a nibble, and say thanks. 
When I asked Brian about conflicts between the eating styles of people who live together, 
he suggested sharing the cooking responsibilities: take turns doing the cooking, giving the 
regular cook a night off at least once a week.Know Your Cooking Style 9What Type of Cook Are You?
When I prepare a 
meal, I typically:
1. Rely on classic dishes my family has 
always enjoyed
2. Substitute more healthful ingredients
3. Follow a recipe step-by-step
4. Rarely use recipes and like to 
experiment
5. Go all out and try to impress my guests
Some of my favorite 
ingredients are:
1. Lots of bread, starches, and red meat
2. Fish and vegetables
3. Beef and chicken
4. Vegetables, spices, and unusual 
ingredients
5. A trendy ingredient I saw on TV
In my free time I like to:
1. Visit with friends and family
2. Exercise or take a fitness class
3. Organize the house
4. Take part in creative or artistic pursuits
5. Be spontaneous and seek adventure
My favorite things 
to cook are:
1. Home-baked goodies
2. Foods with fresh ingredients and herbs
3. Casseroles
4. Ethnic foods and wok dishes
5. Anything that lets me fire up the grillOther people describe me as:
1. Really friendly
2. Health-conscious
3. Diligent and methodical
4. Curious
5. Intense
There may be overlap in the answers 
you give, but is there one number that 
you picked most often? Here’s what your 
answers say about your cooking style:
1. Giving: Friendly, well liked, and enthusiastic; giving 
cooks seldom experiment. They love baking, and like 
to serve tried-and-true family favorites, although 
that sometimes means serving less healthful foods.
2. Healthy: Optimistic, book-loving, nature enthusiasts; 
healthy cooks experiment with fish, fresh produce, 
and herbs. Health comes first, even if it means 
sometimes sacrificing taste. Healthy cooks are the 
most likely to have a garden too.
3. Methodical: Talented cooks who rely heavily on 
recipes, methodical cooks have refined tastes and 
manners. Their creations always look exactly like the 
picture in the cookbook.
4. Innovative: Creative and trend-setting, innovative 
cooks seldom use recipes and like to experiment with 
ingredients, cuisine styles, and cooking methods. 
Cooks of this type tend to be creative in other parts 
of their lives as well.
5. Competitive: The “Iron Chef” of the neighborhood, 
competitive cooks have dominant personalities and are 
intense perfectionists who love to impress their guests.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 10Internet Average Pancakes
No one’s ever wrong on the Internet, so the average of a 
whole bunch of right things must be righter, right? The 
quantities here are based on the rounded average of 
eight different pancake recipes from an online search. 
In a mixing bowl, measure out and whisk together:
 1½ cups (210g) flour
 2 tablespoons (25g) sugar
 2 teaspoons (10g) baking powder
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
In a separate large, microwave-safe bowl, melt:
 2 tablespoons (30g) butter
Add to the butter and whisk to combine 
thoroughly:
 1¼ cups (300 mL) milk
 2 small eggs or 1 jumbo egg (80g) (1 large 
egg will work just fine—but it’s not the 
Internet average!)
Pour the dry ingredients into the liquid 
ingredients and mix them together with a whisk 
or spoon until just incorporated. Little pockets of 
flour are okay; you want to avoid overstirring the 
batter to minimize the amount of gluten formed 
by the flour (see page 246 for more about gluten 
in flour).
Place a nonstick frying pan on a burner set to 
medium-high. Wait until the pan is hot. The 
standard test is to toss a few drops of water into 
the pan and see if they sizzle; if you happen to 
have an infrared thermometer for checking surface 
temperatures, check that the pan is around 400°F 
/ 200°C. Use a ladle, measuring cup, or ice cream 
scoop to pour about half a cup of batter into the 
pan. As the first side cooks, you’ll see bubbles 
forming on the top surface of the pancake. Flip the 
pancake after those bubbles have started to form 
but before they pop (about 2 minutes).
Flour24.8% - 33.4%
Egg
Butter
Baking Powder
Salt
29.7%Milk
45.8% - 53.6%51.3%
4.9% - 12.5%8.4%
1.7% - 6.8%4%
1% - 2.8%1.8%
0.2% - 1.1%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%0.6%
Average ratios for pancakes.
Notes
• The order of ingredients usually indicates the 
order in which you should add them into your 
bowl. It doesn’t always matter, but in this case 
you should add the milk before the eggs to 
prevent the eggs from cooking in the hot butter.
• If you use a nonstick frying pan, don’t butter 
the pan first. If you’re using a regular sauté 
pan, butter it and then wipe away the butter 
with a paper towel. Too much butter on the 
surface of the pan will cause uneven browning 
because parts of the pancake won’t cook as hot.
This is the first recipe 
my parents taught 
me. And yes, that 
says the pancakes 
“must be poured 
into this shape” 
with a drawing of a 
Mickey Mouse head.
How to Read a Recipe 11Always read 
through the 
entire recipe, top 
to bottom, before 
starting.How to Read a Recipe 
It’s easy: start at the beginning and finish at the end. Ha! If only. Recipes are documentation 
of what works for their authors; suggestions from one chef to another. When looking at a 
recipe, realize that it’s not only a suggestion, but an abbreviated one. Give the same recipe 
to a dozen different chefs, and you’ll get a dozen different variations.
The first time I follow a recipe, I stick to it. I’ve learned many things this way—turns out, you 
can peel red bell peppers (the peel has an herbaceous, grassy, bitter taste). For a new cake 
recipe, I might think the batter looks too runny (needs more flour?) or too thick (add more 
oil?), but I go with it. After I’ve made it once, though, all bets are off. The next time I’ll tweak 
it based on notes and memories from the first time. 
If you’re new to cooking, start with breakfast. It’s the 
meal that we’re most likely to eat at home, and the 
recipes are the easiest to learn. Plus, breakfast meals 
are quick to make and the ingredients are cheap. 
(One friend told me about learning to debone meat 
in culinary school. It basically amounted to “Do it 100 
times, and by the time you’re done, you’ll know how to 
do it. ” No wonder culinary school is so expensive!)
• Understand the “why?” behind each step in the recipe. I’ve watched chemists—experts 
trained at following instructions—skip right over the step that says  “turn off heat” in a 
recipe that involves melting chocolate in simmering liquid. “Turn off heat? But melting 
things requires heat!” That recipe used the residual heat from the liquid to melt the 
chocolate to prevent it from being burnt.
• Practice mise en place —French for “put in place. ” Start by prepping your  ingredients 
before you begin the cooking process. Read through the entire recipe, and get out 
everything you need so you don’t have to go hunting in the cupboards or the fridge 
halfway through, only to discover you’re short of a critical ingredient. Making stir-fry? 
Slice the vegetables into a bowl and set it aside before you start cooking.
• Follow order of operations. “3 tablespoons bittersweet chocolate, chopped” is not the 
same thing as “3 tablespoons chopped bittersweet chocolate. ” The former calls for 3 
tablespoons of chocolate that is then chopped up (taking up more than 3 tablespoons), 
whereas the latter refers to a measure of chocolate that has already been chopped. 
• When a recipe calls for something “to taste, ” add a  pinch, taste it, and continue adding 
until you think it is balanced. Ingredients vary, so balancing flavors depends on the 
specifics of the ingredients you have on hand. Also, what constitutes balanced is a 
matter of cultural background and personal preference, especially when you’re using 
seasoning ingredients such as salt, pepper, lemon juice, vinegar, and hot sauce. Need to convert between standard and metric 
measurements for ingredients? 
Check out Wolfram|Alpha ( http://www.wolframalpha.
com ). Enter “1 tablespoon sugar” and it’ll tell you 
it weighs 13 grams; enter the ingredients for the 
pancake recipe using a  “+” between them and it’ll tell 
you the combined ingredients have 38 grams of fat, 
189 grams of carbs, and 46 grams of protein.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 12Steel-Cut Oats
Steel-cut oats are the less processed version of the 
more familiar oats that most Americans know as 
quick-cooking oatmeal and Europeans call rolled 
oats. Rolled oats  are oat groats—the kernels of 
the oat grass—that have been steamed, flattened 
between heavy rollers, and often toasted. Cooked 
briefly in hot water, rolled oats have a gloppy 
texture that’s a mere shadow of what’s possible. 
(They’re perfect for baking, though!)
Steel-cut oats , also called pinhead oats, are less 
processed and more interesting. They’re oat groats 
that have been cut with steel blades, hence their 
name. Cutting the kernel exposes its endosperm —
the starchy interior of the grain—which speeds up 
cooking and allows for some of the starches to mix 
into the cooking water for a heartier meal. Even 
having been cut, steel-cut oats take time to cook. 
Their slightly nutty flavor and texture is worth 
the wait.
Cooking steel-cut oats the traditional way is simple: 
use 1 part oats to 3–4 parts water, simmer for 20–30 
minutes, and then add a pinch or two of salt to 
taste. (The side of the tin in my kitchen says to 
cook for 5 minutes and let it rest overnight in the 
fridge, which is probably better, but I never think 
to do it the night before.) For variety, try swapping 
milk for part of the water, starting with a 1:1 ratio 
and adjusting based on how you like the taste.Traditionally served in Northern Europe with 
milk or cream on top, oatmeal or porridge is more 
commonly served in a cereal bowl and topped with 
flavor-packing foods: brown sugar , cinnamon , 
nuts, raisins,  and milk, or fresh berries on top 
of yogurt  and honey .Steel-cut oats (uncooked)
Oat kernels cut into 
pinhead-sized pieces.Jumbo rolled oats
Uncut oat groats that 
are steamed, rolled, and 
sometimes toasted.
Rolled oats
Cut oat groats, steamed and 
rolled. (Take some cooked steel-
cut oats and smash them with 
the back of a spoon—they’ll 
suddenly look familiar!)
The word cereal  derives from the name of the Roman goddess of agriculture, Ceres, and describes any 
edible grain. The idea of eating cereals as breakfast started out in the United States in 1876, in an era when 
most people ate fatty foods and leftovers for breakfast. Granula , the first manufactured cereal, was created 
by Dr. James Jackson, a vegetarian who wanted to offer his idea of a healthy breakfast meal. A year later Dr. 
John Kellogg—yes, that Kellogg—came out with his own cereal, which took off due to his marketing that 
associated it with a health professional.
Sadly, their ambitions for health have failed. Most breakfast cereals sold today are glorified desserts! A 2011 
analysis by the Environmental Working Group found a staggering two-thirds of children’s cereals failed to 
meet US federal sugar guidelines (at or below 26% sugar by weight).
How to Read a Recipe 13Oat and Egg White Frittata with Fruit
A frittata  is like an omelet but has ingredients 
whisked into the eggs. My version, based on one I 
had in health-conscious Southern California, uses 
just the egg whites to make a tasty, easy-to-cook 
weekend breakfast treat. (Don’t let that “health-
conscious” bit lower your taste expectations—this is 
amazingly tasty.)
You’ll need a batch of steel-cut oatmeal , already 
cooked—see the previous page for how to prepare 
this if you’re not familiar. Each frittata serves one 
person, so plan accordingly.
Preheat the oven by setting it to broil mode. 
Adjust the top rack to be about 6 inches (15 cm) 
away from the broiler.
In a bowl, separate out 3 egg whites , saving the 
egg yolks for some other dish, such as crème 
brûlée (see page 372). If you’ve never separated 
eggs before, the “easy” method is to crack the 
eggs into the bowl and then, using all your 
fingers, carefully pick up the yolks. Don’t worry 
if you get a little egg yolk 
mixed into the whites, 
but try to keep them 
separate. Add 1 cup 
of cooked steel-cut 
oatmeal  (150g)  and 
a generous pinch of 
salt. Using a whisk, 
beat the mixture to 
a foamy, almost soft-
peak stage.Set a frying pan on medium heat. Add 1–2 
tablespoons (15–30g) of either canola oil or 
butter . Heat the pan for 3–4 minutes, waiting 
until the oil or butter is hot. 
Pour the egg white and oat mixture into the pan, 
spreading it out to an even thickness.
After 3 minutes, check to see if the underside is 
browning. Continue checking every minute or so 
until the bottom turns light golden brown. 
Once the bottom is browned, place the pan under 
the broiler, taking care to position the handle so 
as to not cook it too. Cook until the top is golden 
brown.
If you don’t have a broiler, you can attempt to flip 
the frittata with a spatula or a careful flick of the 
pan. And if it breaks, don’t worry! Use a spoon to 
scramble the partly cooked frittata, and instead of 
serving frittata, call it “oat and egg white scramble” 
and serve it in a bowl.
To serve, slide the frittata onto a plate and top with:
 ¼ cup (40g) sliced strawberries (about 4 to 6 
strawberries)
 ¼ cup (60g) cottage cheese
 ¼ cup (60g) applesauce
Dust with ½ teaspoon (1g) cinnamon ; optionally 
add a little maple syrup .
Have you ever noticed that breakfast dishes are 
either mostly protein—eggs, omelets, and so 
on—or heavy on the carbs? (I’m looking at you, 
delicious, delicious Internet Average pancakes.) 
This frittata is my answer to the “half carb, half 
protein” quest. 
Soft peaks will stick to your 
whisk but fold over. 
See page 289 to learn 
more about egg whites.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 14Fear in the Kitchen 
The only real stumbling block is fear of failure. In cooking you’ve got to have a 
what-the-hell attitude.
—Julia Child
Self-Actualization
Creativity, Ful/f_illment
Self-Esteem
Achievement, Recognition, Respect
Social Needs
Sense of Connection, Acceptance
Safety and Security
Health, Financial
Physiological Needs
Water, Food
Maslow’s hierarchy of needs with areas related to food and cooking.
This is my pep talk for readers who are afraid of the kitchen. For some, the idea of stepping 
into the kitchen sets off panic attacks as the primitive parts of the brain take over. (If it 
helps, you can blame your brain’s locus coeruleus . It’s not your fault; take a few deep breaths 
to relax it.)
Fear in the kitchen can come from many sources but invariably boils down to fear of 
rejection and fear of failure. Why someone fears something depends on what needs are at 
stake.  Abraham Maslow, an American psychologist, was looking at what motivates human 
behavior in 1943 when he created his hierarchy of needs , putting what he considered the 
more basic human needs at the bottom of a pyramid. While his ranking of the needs hasn’t 
held up to scrutiny, the needs themselves give a good framework for looking at kitchen 
fears. The most common fears I’ve seen about cooking involve social needs and self-esteem. 
First up, social needs. Cooking for others is a powerful way of building friendships and 
community, and bringing people together over a good meal is immensely rewarding. 
But there is also trepidation: what happens if you utterly ruin the food that you’re 
cooking? To overcome this fear, start by redefining what happens when food is ruined. 
So what if you ruin the dinner? Sure, there are physiological needs (one solution: order 
delivery) and a financial impact. But if your fears are based on social needs, the food 
doesn’t actually matter. As long as you’re bringing people together and treating them 
well, you’ll be meeting your needs—and theirs. (Humor goes a long ways to getting over Fear in the Kitchen 15fear—“Remember that time we served cereal for dinner and laughed about it?”) People 
are far more likely to remember how you made them feel than the food you served. What’s 
important is who’s at the table, not what’s on the plates.
Then there’s self-esteem. Low self-esteem comes from comparing ourselves to others 
and caring too much about what others think. We’re bombarded with magazine covers 
promoting the perfect holiday meal (“so easy, so elegant!”) and online posts showing 
amazing culinary creations. Then when we go to try that “easy” recipe with the beautiful 
photograph, we expect the same outcome. These comparisons aren’t valid. Aspirational 
magazines—and, sadly, many scientific papers—publish their best results instead of their 
more obtainable average results. Can you picture a glossy cooking magazine with all the 
photographs of perfect meals replaced with ones capturing a home cook’s version?! For 
self-esteem challenges, instead of making impossible comparisons, accept yourself for who 
you are and accept whatever it is you’ve made. (Unless, of course, it’s utterly burned, in 
which case see the previous paragraph.)
Julia Child’s appeal lay in her almost-average abilities and her “nothing special” humble 
aura (plus buckets of tenacity). Like her, try things with a what-the-hell attitude. Expect to 
drop the chicken on the floor once in a while. Play around with various ingredients and 
techniques. Come up with projects you want to try. ( Mmm, bacon 
and egg breakfast pizza .) So what if you drop the chicken or burn 
the dinner?! If you’re enjoying yourself, does it matter? As the famed 
psychologist Albert Ellis quipped: “Only you can make you feel guilty!”
How much better off would we be if we talked about “success in 
learning” instead of “failure in the kitchen”? There’s not much to learn 
when things work. When things fail, you have a chance to understand 
where the boundary conditions are and an  opportunity to learn 
how to do something better next time.  Philosopher Alain de Botton 
gave a fantastic speech on this definition of success at the 2009 TED 
Conference. See http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/botton/  to watch 
his talk, “A kinder, gentler philosophy of success. ”
Give learning time. You might have days when you feel like you’ve learned nothing, but the 
cumulative result will lead to insights. If a recipe doesn’t work as well as you’d have liked, try 
to figure out why. The recipe might simply be too advanced or poorly written. If you’re not 
happy with the results, try a different source of recipes.
The way to get over the fear in cooking is to understand what needs you’re trying to meet 
and not allow anxieties around those needs to bubble over elsewhere. Treat cooking as an 
experiment and bring that smart geek curiosity to the kitchen. Approach it as a fun puzzle 
to solve, where you get to pick the pieces.If you’re nervous about cooking for 
others—a romantic date?—practice 
cooking the meal you’ve chosen 
the day before for just yourself 
and a confidant. This will make the 
routine of cooking the meal more 
familiar, reducing fear. It’s entirely 
okay to screw up and toss it in the 
trash; it’s no different than a science 
experiment that didn’t pan out 
(pardon the bad pun).
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 16PHOTO CC-BY-SA-3.0 PORKRIND ON  EN.WIKIPEDIA.COM
Adam Savage is the cohost of 
MythBusters , a popular science program 
that examines rumors, myths, and 
conventional wisdom, “putting them to 
the test” with a scientific approach.
How do you go about testing a myth?
One of the earliest things we realized 
on the show is that you always have 
to have something to compare to. 
We would try to come up with an 
answer like: is this guy dead, is this car 
destroyed, is this an injury? And we 
would be trying to compare it to an 
absolute value, like X number of feet 
fallen equals dead. The problem is the 
world is very spongy and nonuniform, 
and trying to nail down a value like 
that can be really difficult. So we 
always end up doing relative tests. We 
end up doing a control under regular 
circumstances and then we test the 
myth under identical circumstances, 
and we compare the two things. In that 
comparison, we get to see our results.Adam Savage on Scientific Testing
We did one where we were testing 
whether or not you could tenderize 
steaks with explosives. We had to figure 
out what tenderness is. The problem 
is you can give two different people 
each a piece of steak from the same 
cut compared to a piece of steak from 
a different cut, and they might come 
up with two different assessments of 
which one is more tender. We actually 
did a whole day of testing that didn’t 
end up on film because we realized 
we were using the wrong parameters 
for assessing steak tenderness. The 
USDA  [United States Department of 
Agriculture] actually has a machine for 
testing the tenderness of steak that 
measures the pounds of force it takes 
to punch a hole through a steak. We 
replicated that machine and to our 
great surprise, it worked exactly as it 
was supposed to. Coming up with 
something for $50 that equals the 
USDA testing equipment: that was 
thrilling!
How can testing a myth translate 
into learning more about cooking?
Changing one variable is probably 
the single hardest thing for people to 
understand. Change only one variable. 
It’s not like changing only a small 
number of variables; it’s really changing 
one variable at a time, because only 
then do you know what caused the 
change between your first test and 
your second test. You get so much 
clarity from the process that way.
I’m an avid cook. My wife and I both 
cook a lot of elaborate things, and we really do love playing around with 
single variables, changing things and 
learning how things work. We were 
reading Thomas Keller, and he talked 
about how salt is a flavor enhancer, 
and he mentioned that vinegar does a 
similar thing. It doesn’t add a new taste, 
but it often alters the taste that’s there. 
My wife was making a cauliflower soup, 
and it was kind of bland. I didn’t want to 
put any more salt in it, because I could 
tell it was about to go in the wrong 
direction. We tossed in a little bit of 
vinegar and the whole thing just woke 
up. It was thrilling! I love that.
Have you done other myths related 
to food?
We have—certainly a whole bunch of 
drinking myths. We did poppy seed 
bagels to see if eating a poppy seed 
bagel causes you to test positive for 
heroin, which is absolutely true. In fact, 
parolees are completely forbidden from 
eating poppy seed bagels. They’re told 
if you test positive for drugs, we are 
not going to wonder why. You are just 
going to go back to jail, so make it easy: 
don’t eat poppy seeds.
I had a whole episode written called 
“The Surreal Gourmet,” which ended 
with tenderizing steak with dynamite, 
but it had all those other things 
like poaching fish on your catalytic 
converter or cooking eggs in your 
dishwasher. [MythBusters cohost] Jamie 
loves the idea of tenderizing meat in 
the dryer.  Also, the idea of is it safe to eat 
fresh roadkill ? We think that would be 
just hilarious and gross. Fear in the Kitchen 17How do you learn from the things 
that don’t succeed?
I hand-whipped my first whipped 
cream about six or seven years ago. I 
whipped it, and the very first thing I did 
once it was whipped was I whipped 
it too far on purpose. I thought, “I 
know this is perfect, but I want to 
know where the line is,” and I just kept 
on going until I had butter. It was 
surprisingly fast and taught me a really 
clear thing about exactly where you 
can go with whipping cream.
Whipped cream tastes great. Flavoring 
it and sweetening it is just trivial. If 
you’re good, you can do it almost as 
fast as it takes to get the mixers and the 
bowls out and do it all mechanically. 
It’s a lovely thing to sit there and talk 
to your guests while you’re hand-
whipping cream.
See page 300 to read about 
whipping cream. What do you enjoy cooking?
My favorite thing to cook of all is eggs. 
After years of practice, I’ve almost 
mastered the pan flip for an omelet 
without the spatula. I’ve actually held 
brunches for 15 people where the 
theme was “come and I’ll cook you eggs 
any way you want.” My kids are both 
really getting into it now. They wake 
up (they’re 10-year-old twins) and they 
both have their specific ways that they 
like cooking eggs. My son Addison 
prefers the hobo egg, in which you cut 
a hole out of a piece of bread and fry an 
egg in that hole, and my son Riley likes 
scrambled eggs. He likes them a little 
bit on the hard side, but I’m trying to 
teach him not to cook them too much.
That does seem to be a common 
affliction, overcooking eggs and 
getting dry scrambled eggs.
With enough sauce, they’d work, but 
when you start to cook them right, it 
turns out that there is this tiny band 
in which they’re unbelievably good. 
That’s why I like eggs. They’re kind of 
unforgiving in some ways and that’s 
really exciting.
One of the great things about cooking 
is that, unless you’re doing something 
really specifically unforgiving, most 
recipes are really quite impressively 
forgiving. That’s a part I really love. You 
can change all sorts of variables and it 
still comes out pretty darn good. It’s a 
great test platform.The problem-solving aspect of 
the show is really fascinating. Do 
you have any advice on how to 
get to where you want to be when 
problems arise?
The first thing to realize is that you’re 
not going to end up where you think. 
The world is smarter than you are. A 
craftsman isn’t somebody who never 
screws up. A craftsman screws up 
just as much as you do. They can just 
see it coming, and can adjust; it’s an 
ongoing process. Everybody’s oven 
heats at a different rate. You open it 
up to check, the temperature drops. 
There are all sorts of variables. Maybe 
it’s humid, maybe it’s not. Humidity was 
affecting all sorts of my wife’s cookie 
recipes. People tend to overfocus on 
the final product, when you’ve got to 
be awake to the process. So problem 
solving doesn’t mean doing whatever it 
takes to get to the end result; it means 
following the path that you’re on. You’re 
going to probably end up changing 
your definition of what the result is 
before you’re done.
The better you get, the more that 
things start to turn out like you 
planned. When my wife started 
doing really serious baking, I couldn’t 
believe how much of a difference just 
having all your ingredients at  room 
temperature made in terms of the 
emulsifying and chemical reactions—
getting the doughs flaky, for instance. 
Just the simple thing of pulling all of 
your ingredients out of the refrigerator 
an hour before you start cooking has 
a massive effect on the final product. 
Or things like certain kinds of berries in 
certain kinds of pastries; the acidity of 
the berries means having to add more 
baking soda. I love that. You just have to 
learn as you go.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 18A Brief History of the Recipe 
We’ve been writing about food for as long as we’ve been writing. The oldest known tablets, from 
the beginning of written civilization, show glyphs for beer, fish, and eating. The oldest known 
recipe dates to four millennia ago and describes a ritual for making beer. Like its cousin, 
bread, beer was a food of necessity. Beer was safer to drink than potentially polluted water, so 
ritualizing and recording the process of making it created a recipe of necessity and survival.
The ancient Romans expanded on recipes of necessity to recipes of indulgence (roasted 
flamingo, anybody?). While more complicated, their recipes still read more like short notes 
than precise protocols with measurements and descriptive steps.
It wasn’t until the 1800s that cookbooks began 
to give more precise measurements, with 
Fannie Farmer’s the Boston Cooking-School Cook 
Book  (Little, Brown & Company, 1896) being a 
notable early bellwether in the United States. 
Her book is still enjoyable today. Here is her 
recipe for what we’d call cornbread (although I 
think her name, Golden Corn Cake, is more apt).
Fannie Farmer’s book sold 4 million copies, changed the way we cooked, and set the stage 
for Irma Rombauer’s culinary  classic Joy of Cooking  (1931), which to date has sold 18 million 
copies. Ironically, both authors had difficulty with their initial printings, having to pay for the 
initial print runs themselves. Breaking the status quo has never been easy.
Joy’s innovation was “casual culinary chat, ” weaving in the ingredient lists with the 
instructions that give the reader a description of what to look for. It’s one of the first books 
to walk the reader through the process of cooking, serving as both a culinary guide and 
source of notes for the aspiring cook. (Growing up and thumbing through my mom’s copy 
of the 1975 edition, I remember reading “How to Skin a Squirrel, ” which made an impression 
on me of what cooking was like only a few generations ago. Plus, ewww . The latest edition 
has understandably dropped that section.)
Even modern recipes that inherit Fannie Farmer’s precise measurements and Joy’s woven 
narrative should still be viewed as notes from one cook to another. There’s simply too much 
variability in ingredients and preferences. A teaspoon of dried oregano in your drawer won’t 
necessarily be the same strength as a teaspoon of the dried oregano in my drawer, due to 
age, breakdown of the chemicals (carvacrol, in this case), and variations in production and 
processing. And food preferences are just too varied—there simply is no “perfect” chocolate 
chip cookie; we each have our own version.A Brief History of the Recipe 19What will the future of recipes look like? While I don’t believe—or choose not to believe!—
that printed cookbooks will go away, we are clearly in the digital age. Books no longer 
need to be authoritative or exhaustive, but should be entertaining and inspirational. With 
Internet access becoming universal, you’ll be able to find a good recipe for chicken tagine 
or tofu scramble faster with an online search than by flipping to the index at the back of this 
book. Fannie Farmer and Irma Rombauer would be amazed.
When will we see a dynamically generated cookbook with recipes tailored to our individual 
tastes—emphasizing slow food, or healthy meals, or low-sugar recipes? Or recipe 
generators that allow us to choose our own parameters? “Computer, change the recipe to 
make the cookies crispier!” Some attempts at this exist, but they haven’t been breakout 
successes. In part, digital ebook formats don’t have the capabilities, and installing apps is a 
higher barrier than most creators imagine.
I also think we’ve reached a simplicity point: cooking 
for pleasure is a pastime. We find it enjoyable to have 
a challenge rewarded with success. I call this maker’s 
gratification : the emotional reward and sense of 
accomplishment that one gets by making something 
that has some level of difficulty. Good brownies, 
made from scratch, are gratifying to make and to 
eat. The food industry understands this all too well. 
Instant brownie mixes could be formulated to not need eggs, oil, and water, but then they 
wouldn’t deliver maker’s gratification. How much reward would you feel for putting a store-
bought pan with batter into the oven and hitting the “on” button? Probably not much.
Regardless of the source and format of a recipe—short note, culinary essay, flowchart, or 
whatever may come—read it thinking of the source and the author’s intent, translating as 
necessary in order to achieve what you want. Condensed recipes, like those that Maureen Evans 
posts on Twitter ( @cookbook ), are easy to follow for 
experienced cooks:
Lemon Lentil Soup:  mince onion&celery&carrot&garlic; 
cvr@low7m+3T oil. Simmer40m+4c broth/c puylentil/
thyme&bay&lemzest. Puree+lemjuice/s+p.
Visual recipes, like Michael Chu’s ( http://www.cookingforengineers.com ) tiramisu, communicate 
quantities and steps with minimal overhead using a time and activity chart:4 large (70g) egg yolks
½ cup (100g) granulated sugar
½ cup (120 mL) sweet Marsala wine
1 lb. (450g) mascarpone cheese
1 cup (240 mL) heavy cream
about 40 lady/f_inger cookies
12 oz. (355 mL) prepared espresso
2 tsp. (8.5g) granulated sugar
2 Tbs. (11g) cocoa powderbeat
beat
beatbeatwhisk
over steam
whip to soft peaks
dissolvesoak 2 secondsfoldassemble:
/f_illing
lady/f_ingers
/f_illing
lady/f_ingerssift
on toprefrigerate
4 hours
about 20 lady/f_inger cookies
2 shots (2 ounces; 60 mL) prepared espresso
½ cup (120 mL) prepared coﬀee
1 cup (240 mL) heavy whipping cream
1 lb. (455g) mascarpone cheese
½ cup (100g) granulated sugar
3 tablespoons (44 mL) rum or brandy
cocoa powder
shavings of unsweetened dark chocolatedipmix & chill
whisk to stiﬀ peaks
mixfoldlayer & spread twice
coverThe Original Tiramisu
Simple Tiramisu
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 20Cooking Medieval Recipes 
If you’re a history buff, check out old cookbooks for inspiration. If there’s one time you 
definitely shouldn’t follow the recipe, it’s with a really old one. Take Maistre Chiquart’s 
recipe for parma torte  in Du fait de cuisine  (1420 AD). Translated into modern English, 
he starts with “take 3 or 4 pigs, and if the affair should be larger than I can conceive, 
add another, and from the pigs take off the heads and thighs.” He goes on for four 
pages, adding 300 pigeons and 200 chicks (or, “if the affair is at a time when you can’t 
find chicks, then 100 capons”). He calls for both familiar spices, like sage, parsley, and 
marjoram, and unfamiliar ones, such as hyssop and “grains of paradise.” The ending 
instructions say to place a pastry version of the house coat of arms on top of the pie 
crust and decorate the top with a “check-board pattern of gold leaf.” 
Chiquart’s recipes were understandably complicated as they were designed for royal 
occasions and banquets. But even simple medieval recipes can be challenging: 
language, ingredients, and culinary tools have all changed. A lot. Consider this 
recipe for apple pie from The Forme of Cury , published around 1390 AD:
Tak gode Applys and gode Spycis and Figys and reysons and Perys and wan they are wel 
brayed coloure wyth Safron wel and do yt in a cofyn and do yt forth to bake well.
This roughly translates to: “Take good apples and good spices and figs and raisins 
and pears and when they are well crushed, color well with saffron and put it in a 
coffin and take it to bake.” (The coffin —little basket, same root as coffer —is the 
culinary ancestor to modern-day pie pastry but would not have been edible because 
of the way it was cooked.) Reading recipes like this can be a starting point for 
experimentation. Reading this gives me the idea of mixing a mash of apples and 
pears, some dried fruit, spices, and saffron as a festive applesauce for a holiday meal.
Many older texts are accessible via the 
Internet Archive ( http://www.archive.org ), 
Project Gutenberg ( http://www.gutenberg.
org), and Google Books ( http://books.google.
com). For parma torte , I worked out my own 
scaled-down adaptation, modifying the 
quantities for the much smaller affair of a 
dinner party. I later found an adaptation 
in Eleanor and Terence Scully’s Early French 
Cookery: Sources, History, Original Recipes and 
Modern Adaptations  (University of Michigan 
Press, 1996); see http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/parmatorte/ .
Don’t Always Follow the Recipe 21Don’t Always Follow the Recipe 
Recipes shouldn’t be blindly followed, for a bunch of reasons:
• Recipes can’t be written to exact measurements. There’s too much variability in 
ingredients and techniques: mixing 3 cups of flour and 1 cup of water won’t reproduce 
the same results every time or for every cook. Professional bread bakers know to vary 
the amount of water based on weather (flour is moister with higher humidity) and the 
amount of yeast based on time of year (using more in the winter, when it works slower). 
Gain experience by paying attention to how dishes look and feel, and tweak quantities 
to get things to look and react like they did previously.
• Some recipes are just concepts. Stone soup? Kitchen sink salad? Congee? I can tell you 
what I did, based on what produce I found in my market, but you’d have to adapt. The 
recipe for congee, as you’ll see on the next page, is hardly a recipe, but it’s still written 
up with measurements and instructions. You’ll only need to read it once; after that, you’ll 
know the concept and never need the recipe again.
• Go off-recipe! Maybe you don’t like the taste of one suggested ingredient and want to 
substitute something else. Maybe you’ve read a few recipes for a dish and want to mix 
up the seasoning or vegetables. Recipes aren’t written in stone. (Well, excluding that 
beer recipe by the ancient Egyptians I mentioned earlier.)
A/B experiment to myth-bust. Make a recipe twice, changing just one thing (cookies: 
melt the butter or not?), and see what changes (if anything). If you’re not sure which 
way to do something, try both and see what happens. You’re guaranteed  to learn 
something—possibly something the recipe writer didn’t even understand.
And finally, following recipes kills innovation. I often turn to the cuisine of different cultures, 
looking at their “flavor families, ” or regional ingredients that are considered complementary. 
Lemon, tarragon, and wine—a common combination in French dishes—are pleasing 
together. Elsewhere it might be lemon, rosemary, and garlic. There are tons of regionally based 
cookbooks—pick up one that covers a region of interest to you. I find books from regions 
where two or more cultures mix together (Morocco, Israel, Vietnam) to be the most thought-
provoking. The way techniques and ingredients get blended together is fascinating. 
For off-recipe ingredients and inspiration, explore ethnic supermarkets and mom-and-pop 
stores. These tend to be small storefronts with new smells from the unfamiliar produce and 
spices and are typically located in old-style ethnic neighborhoods. Ask around to discover where 
they’re hidden. They can be amazing finds and introduce you to ingredients that will change the 
way you cook for the rest of your life—which won’t happen if you stick to the recipes you have.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 22Congee
Everybody has to eat, and every culture has a 
standard dish based on the grains that grow 
locally. Different regions of the world support 
growing different crops: oats and wheat in the 
United States, oats in parts of Europe, and rice 
in much of Asia. All of these come from the same 
family of plants ( Poaceae —a.k.a. true grasses), so 
it’s not surprising that these grains can be boiled 
in water, or sometimes milk, to similar result. 
Wheat becomes cream of wheat, oats become 
porridge, and rice becomes congee. 
You’re unlikely to see congee on many restaurant 
menus or featured in many cookbooks, for the same 
reason that oatmeal and porridge don’t appear very 
often: it’s a home-cooked staple, not an eating-
out “fancy” food. That doesn’t mean congee isn’t 
delicious and nutritious—a billion people eat it 
every day! For some, congee is the equivalent of 
chicken noodle soup: something nourishing to turn 
to when you’re sick or looking for comfort.
Congee can be subdivided into several different 
versions, depending upon the culture. The Chinese 
call it jook or zhou: runny rice porridge sometimes 
topped with eggs, fish paste, scallions, tofu, and 
soy sauce. In India, it’s called ganji—rice soup—
and has flavorings such as coconut milk, curry, 
ginger, and cumin seeds added to it. When it’s 
cooked in sweet milk with cardamom and topped 
with pistachios or almonds, you have the dessert 
version, common in Indian restaurants.
Cooking congee is also a great opportunity to go 
off-recipe, because there isn’t one! Explore. Blend 
ingredients and flavors together. Try other grains, 
too. Why not try steel-cut oats with traditional 
congee toppings: savory steel-cut oats with green 
onion, fried garlic, and over-easy egg? Sounds 
delicious. Amazing culinary creations result where two different cultures mingle, such as in 
the Mediterranean (North African + Southern 
European), Southeast Asia (Asian + European), and 
the Caribbean (African + Western European). Israeli 
markets carry ingredients from the surrounding 
western regions of North Africa (especially Morocco) 
and Eastern Europe; Israeli cuisine is influenced by 
the traditions of both areas. Modern Vietnamese 
food was heavily impacted by French occupation in 
the 19th century. The United States, with so many 
different cultures mingling, is perhaps the most 
recent example of what’s termed fusion cooking: 
witness the  African, Native American, and Spanish 
influences in Southern cooking; Western European 
and African backgrounds combining in Louisiana 
Creole food; and the infusion of Mexican cuisine 
in Tex-Mex. Congee is just one easy place to begin 
exploring fusion cooking. Think about how the rice 
is used, and how oats, cream of wheat, or corn grits 
might work. Experiment!
What’s the difference between 
short-, medium-, and long-grain 
rice? And what makes some sticky?
In a nutshell (grainshell?), the starches. We’ve all 
heard of starch, but what is it? Starch is a type 
of carbohydrate—“carbo” for carbon, “hydrate” 
for water (see page 205 for more)—that is made 
up of two different molecules, amylopectin and 
amylose. Amylopectin can absorb more water than 
amylose, and the ratio of amylopectin to amylose 
varies between different cereal grains and different 
varieties. The size of the starch granules varies too, 
changing how quickly they absorb water and thus 
how long different varieties take to cook. Long-grain 
varieties of rice—“long” referring to the ratio of 
diameter to length—generally have a lower ratio of 
amylopectin to amylose, and as a result absorb less 
water, making them less sticky when cooking.
Don’t Always Follow the Recipe 23Cook for at least several hours in a cooker set to 
slow-cook mode, or in a pot set over very low heat:
 4 cups (1 L) water or stock
 ½ cup (100g) short- or medium-grain rice 
(no need to wash it—the extra starches 
will help the congee)
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
When you’re ready to eat, heat the rice to near 
boiling to finish cooking. The long, low-heat 
cooking will have broken down the starches; 
boiling the liquid will cause them to gelatinize 
and quickly thicken. I have a pressure cooker that 
has a slow-cook mode, so I switch it from slow-
cook mode to rice mode, which is hotter and will 
take the rice up to near boiling. If you are doing 
this in a pot on the stovetop, set the pot over 
medium heat, periodically stirring and checking it 
while working on the rest of these instructions so 
that it does not burn on the bottom.
While the rice is cooking, prepare a number of 
toppings. There’s no fixed list of ingredients—a 
million cooks can’t be getting this wrong every day.
Here’s one combination that I enjoy:
Tofu, cut into small cubes and browned on all 
sides
Scallions, chopped into small pieces
Garlic, sliced into thin discs and toasted on 
each side to make “garlic chips”
Hot sauce, such as sriracha sauce
Soy sauce
Toasted almond slicesSome additional suggestions:
For savory congee , try various combinations of 
dried fish, rousong (a type of dried meat that’s a 
traditional topping for congee), shredded chicken, 
furikake (a Japanese seasoning used on top of 
rice, consisting of dried ground fish, seaweed 
powder, and sesame seeds), roasted sesame seeds, 
pickled cucumbers, fried gluten, miso paste, 
peanuts, cilantro, fried shallots/onions, butter.
For a sweeter congee , think about common 
traditional oatmeal toppings (sugar, honey, 
cinnamon, milk, fruit) and then imagine their 
relatives in other cuisines (coconut milk, coconut 
flakes, sweet red beans, mochi, dates, boiled 
sweetened peanuts).
You can serve this family-style, with the toppings 
in small bowls where your guests can help 
themselves, or you can portion the toppings out 
more formally: a tablespoon or two of tofu, a few 
teaspoons of scallions, a sprinkling of garlic chips, 
and a dash of sriracha and soy sauces. Quantity is 
not particularly important, but go easy on the hot 
and salty sauces.
Notes
• To toast the garlic, use a sharp knife to slice 
a few cloves (or more, if you’re a garlicphile) 
into thin discs. Place a frying pan on a burner 
set to medium-high heat, but do not add oil. 
Arrange the garlic wafers in a single, thin layer. 
Toast one side until medium brown, about 2–3 
minutes, and then flip (try using tongs) to 
toast the second side.
• Try cracking an egg into the congee at the end 
of cooking, either in the pot (and then mix 
it in), or in the individual bowls (you might 
need to pop the congee into the microwave for 
a minute if it isn’t hot enough to fully cook 
the egg). Adding an egg will alter the texture 
and give the dish a much richer taste.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 24
Jacques Pépin is a celebrated chef and 
educator who has authored over 20 
books, including Jacques Pépin’s  New 
Complete Techniques  (Black Dog & 
Leventhal Publishers, 2012). He has hosted 
several shows about cooking on PBS, 
including Julia and Jacques Cooking 
at Home , which won an Emmy Award. 
He is the recipient of numerous James 
Beard Awards, including the Lifetime 
Achievement Award.
How did you first come to be in the 
kitchen?
Well, I was born into the kitchen in the 
sense that my parents had a restaurant. 
My brother and I would help with 
cleaning, or washing dishes, or peeling 
one thing or another. Either I was going 
to go be a cabinetmaker like my father 
or get into the kitchen like my mother. 
So it was a choice that I made very 
willingly. I thought the kitchen was 
exciting, with the noise, the smell, and 
so forth. Jacques Pépin on Cooking
Y ou were raised in France and then 
in 1959, you moved to the United 
States. Why?
I was doing very well in France. I 
worked in the biggest places—the 
Plaza Athénée, Fouquet’s, Maxim’s—
and I even became the chef to the 
president. I’m saying that I had no real 
incentive to come to the US except 
for a profound desire to go like young 
people did. I thought that I would 
stay maybe a couple of years, learn 
the language, and go back. From the 
moment I was in New York, I loved it 
and I never went back. 
Then you ended up working at 
Howard Johnson’s shortly after 
moving here, being hired by Mr. 
Johnson directly in 1961. Y ou wrote 
in the New York Times  that it was 
your most valuable apprenticeship. 
How so? 
My most valuable American  
apprenticeship, certainly. I was asked 
to go to the White House and, to tell 
you the truth, I had no idea of the 
potential for publicity. The cook was 
in the kitchen and that was the end 
of it. When I was with the president in 
France, we were never asked to go into 
the dining room or had anyone coming 
to see us. If anyone came into the 
kitchen it was because something was 
wrong! When asked to go to the White 
House because of the experience I had 
in France, I didn’t want to do that and 
Howard Johnson represented a totally 
different world, a world that I didn’t 
know anything about: a world of mass 
production, a world of American eating 
habits.Y ou’ve been involved in American 
food for half a century and 
French cuisine for decades before 
that. Where do you think our 
relationship with food will go in the 
future? 
I don’t know, but America is unique in 
the sense that, in France, 99% of people 
cook French food because that’s what 
they are born with. The food is good 
and that’s fine. In Italy, 99% of people 
cook Italian. Same thing in Spain, in 
Portugal, in Germany. America is quite 
different. People will cook Turkish one 
day and then they go from a Swahili 
restaurant to a Yucatan restaurant, then 
to a French restaurant, an Italian, and so 
forth. That situation has been created 
in the last 20 years or so in America; it’s 
the most exciting country in the world 
because of that type of diversity.
The cook, 50 years ago when I came 
here, was on the bottom on the social 
scale. Any good mother would have 
wanted her son to be an architect or 
a lawyer, certainly not a cook. Now we 
are geniuses. There are 400 television 
shows on cooking I was told, so it’s just 
absolutely amazing. Where will it go? I 
don’t know, but it will never go back to 
the way it was. The whole food industry 
in this country is enormous and people 
are getting very, very knowledgeable.
What do you tell people who are 
just learning to think about food, 
learning to cook?
I tell people if you don’t know where to 
start, but you know you’re going to go 
into the food world, start in the kitchen 
because this is the core of it. And Don’t Always Follow the Recipe 25a piece of meat on the grill. That steak 
is medium or rare, the way you want it, 
and you take it off. 
I have been with people who are very 
knowledgeable about the chemistry 
of food and how things work, and you 
end up eating a lousy meal. And then 
you go to the little Italian mama who 
would have absolutely no idea of the 
chemistry when she cooks a dish, but 
you’ll have the best meal in your life.
It’s quite different when cooking to 
create  recipes rather than to just cook 
instinctively for the pleasure of it. I 
write down what I’m doing when I’m 
cooking a dish. Then I have that set 
of instructions that I’ve written down. 
There is no guarantee that it is going 
to be the same with you. The recipe is 
purely a moment in time where I report 
what happened on that particular day, 
at that particular temperature.
When I give the recipe to you, you are 
faced with a typewritten page that you 
have to abide by, which is the opposite 
of the freedom that I had when I 
created the recipe. However, I tell 
people, when you make a recipe, you 
should do exactly as the recipe said, to 
do justice to whoever did it. If it works 
out, you’re likely to do it again, but the 
second time you will take a faster look. 
By the third or the fourth time, you will 
improve the recipe by adapting it to 
your personal taste. The recipe is not 
static, it’s moving. You never have the 
same chicken exactly, with the same 
amount of fat. 
I teach some classes at Boston 
University. Everybody wants to be 
“different.” That’s an oxymoron because you 
cannot do the same thing as the 
person next to you does because 
you’re not that person. This is one of 
the paradoxes. I’ll do a roast chicken, 
buttered potatoes, and a salad. Then 
they all go to the stove with an hour 
and a half to redo it. I tell them, “Do 
not try to blow my mind, by doing 
something different. You don’t have to, 
because I have 15 students and will end 
up with 15 distinct chickens today. You 
cannot be the same as the person next 
to you. So don’t torture yourself to be 
different. Just cook with your gut and 
you will be different than the person 
next to you.”
Y ou appeared on Top Chef , where you 
mentioned that your ideal final meal 
would be roast squab and fresh peas. 
I was curious as to why that? 
Well, you know, fresh baby peas right 
out of the garden cooked with a small 
lettuce, tiny pearl white onions, butter 
and a dash of sugar  and salt— Peas à la 
Française —it’s extraordinary. And I love 
squab roasted properly. 
To tell you the truth, “What would be 
the last meal of your life?” is really a 
stupid question because if you know 
you’re going to die, you probably don’t 
have much of an appetite! I said the 
greatest bread and the greatest butter 
that I can think of—it’s hard to beat 
bread and butter. So, of course, when 
I said that, they said, “Well, that’s great, 
but that’s not enough.” So then, all 
right: squab and peas. (For Chef Pépin’s 
recipe, see http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/peas/ .)
So good, good bread; good butter.
Extraordinary  bread and extraordinary  
butter. Yes. Hard to beat.whether you become a food critic or a 
food photographer, whatever you’ve 
learned there will be useful. It is not 
necessarily true if you start in another 
area of the food world. Food has moved 
into all areas, from academia to the 
simple bistro to food trucks.
Y ou’ve mentioned that it’s a good 
thing that we have to take time out 
for the pleasure of eating every 
day. There must also be, of course, 
the pleasure of cooking. 
I use the supermarket as a prep cook, 
which is feasible now and wasn’t 
before. I have a nonstick pan, I buy 
skinless boneless breasts of chicken, 
presliced mushrooms, and prewashed 
spinach, and with minimal effort, I can 
do a dish in 10 to 15 minutes. You can 
have pleasure in cooking, enjoy it, and 
have something nice and fresh.
That’s such a good observation 
that the modern grocery store 
has become the sous chef for the 
home cook. Do you think our 
understanding of how ingredients 
work, the chemistry of things, has 
changed over the past decades?
There has been some change, why 
hollandaise sauce breaks down and all 
that, but a chef learns in a different way. 
The way you sharpen a knife, the way 
you beat an egg white, the way you 
bone a chicken, or the way you make 
an omelet is the same now as it was 50 
years ago. I can walk along the stove 
and I can tell you the chicken in the 
oven is done cooking because, we say, 
the chicken “chante.” It sings at the point 
that all of the juice has evaporated and 
the fat that has accumulated in the pan 
fries or “sings.” It’s like when you touch 
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 26A Place for Everything and 
Everything in Its Place 
Not everyone is the neat-and-tidy type, but if there were ever a place to try to keep things 
in order, your kitchen would be it.  Julia Child took the adage “a place for everything and 
everything in its place” seriously: pans were hung on pegboards that had outlines drawn 
around each item to ensure that it was always returned to the same location. Knives were 
stored above countertops on magnetic bars where she could easily reach out to take one. 
Common cooking items—spoons, whisks, oil, vermouth—were placed next to her stovetop. 
Her kitchen was organized around what the French call near to hand , with common tools 
and ingredients kept near where they would normally be used.
You should do the same thing in your kitchen. Every item should have a home location, to 
the point where you could hypothetically grab a particular tool or pan while blindfolded. 
(This isn’t hypothetical for the blind.) Store tools near the foods with which they are used: 
measuring spoons with the spices, garlic press with the garlic, and measuring cups with the 
dry goods. Speaking of dry goods, make sure to label any bulk goods with both what they 
are and their purchase date to avoid potentially unpleasant surprises months (years?!) later.
Keep often-used things out where you can reach them quickly. Every kitchen should have a 
container for spoons and spatulas next to the stove, and every kitchen should have a good, 
foot-pedal-operated trashcan right next to the cutting board. A good trashcan seems like 
an odd suggestion, but it’s way easier than having to open the cupboard below the kitchen 
sink while your hands are full of onion skins and whatnot. Consider removing cupboard 
doors as well, if the aesthetic appeals—having plates and bowls where you can reach out 
and grab them speeds things up. These tweaks are individually small, but you will be 
amazed at how much time they save when added up.
Countertop space is precious, so move rarely used appliances to cupboards. Anything in 
your cupboards that you haven’t used for more than a year should be foisted off on others. 
If you’re not sure you can part with some rarely used gadget (“but that’s the mango slicer 
from our honeymoon!”), find another home for it, outside the 
kitchen. If you find the idea of a marathon pruning session 
overwhelming, try doing one cupboard per week. Still too 
overwhelming? Remove one thing a day, no matter how 
small, until you reach a Zen state of tranquility. Keeping the 
kitchen functional is much easier as an ongoing habit than 
an annual ritual.
A Place for Everything and Everything in Its Place 27The 3 × 4 Rule of Countertops
The rule is simple:  having three different 
counters, each at least 4 feet (1.2 meters) long, 
provides sufficient space to make cooking easier. 
The effects are profound: without enough space, 
your cooking can come to a grinding halt as you 
try to figure out where to stack that dirty pan 
right as something else starts to overcook.
The 3 × 4 rule  is useful because with enough 
counter space you have the room to move things 
around. You might use one counter for raw 
ingredients, another for cooked food and serving 
plates, and a third for dirty dishes. This isn’t to 
say the three counter sections will always be used 
for those three functions, but as a rule of thumb, 
having three work surfaces of sufficient length 
(and depth!) makes cooking easier.
If your current kitchen setup doesn’t pass the 3 × 
4 rule, see if you can come up with a clever way to 
extend a countertop or create another work surface.
If you have plenty of space:  The easiest option 
is to buy a “kitchen island” on wheels, which you can move around as needed and also use to 
store common tools. Look for one with a wooden 
butcher-block top. This can be a great solution for 
kitchens with counters that meet the rule but are 
too far apart (yes, it’s possible to have too much 
space).
If you’re tight on space:  See if there’s a spot 
where you can mount a temporary cutting board. 
You might have a well-positioned wall on which 
you can hinge a cutting board—a piece of half-
inch-thick (1.25 cm) hard maple works for longer 
spans—in such a way that you can latch it up out 
of the way while you’re not cooking. Or, check 
if you can extend a countertop over an unused 
space. Ikea sells excellent and cheap wooden 
kitchen countertops.
Finally, if you should ever have the luxury (and 
curse?) of designing your own space, check out 
Christopher Alexander et al.’s A Pattern Language: 
Towns, Buildings, Construction  (Oxford University 
Press, 1977), from which this rule is derived (see 
“Cooking Layout” on page 853 of that book).
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 28A Dinner Party for One 
We should celebrate our opportunities to eat alone. How we cook and eat when no one is 
looking is fascinating: a bowl of cereal, bread and cheese, fried spam (!), takeout. There’s 
nobody else to please and no one to judge. Indulge yourself!
It needn’t take time if you’re busy. Scrounge for dessert while eating your 
dinner. Eat and read at the same time. Take the opportunity to think about 
what makes you happy. Set out a placemat. Pour yourself a drink. For the 
busy parent or working professional, eating alone should be a treat: a 
time to take care of yourself in whatever way you like.
Some tips for when you’re cooking solo: amortize costs by picking 
recipes that share ingredients. Extra tomatoes and cilantro purchased 
for a chicken dish can be used with eggs the next morning. Transform 
cooked chicken and vegetables from dinner into a sandwich. If your 
grocery store has a salad bar, look there for ingredients. Need a handful 
of cilantro? Snag the amount you need, already diced and sometimes 
cheaper than in the produce section.
Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, and Cilantro Chicken
This recipe, based on one originally printed in Bon 
Appétit  magazine, was recently introduced to me 
and has become a regular dish. It’s easy to cook 
and makes great leftovers. It’s still impressive when 
you are cooking for others!
Preheat oven to 450°F / 230°C. In a large bowl, 
mix together:
 4 tablespoons (60 mL) olive oil
 4 garlic cloves, pressed or diced
 1 tablespoon (7g) smoked paprika ( not 
spicy!) or mild pimentón
 1 teaspoon (2g) ground cumin
 ½ teaspoon (0.5g) crushed red pepper flakes 
(spicy)In a small serving bowl, measure out ¼ cup 
(60g) plain yogurt . Transfer 1 teaspoon of the 
spice mixture  from the large bowl into the small 
serving bowl and mix to combine. Set on table for 
use as a topping.
In the large bowl, add:
 4 lightly salted chicken breast fillets, about 
a pound (500g)—or 2 small chicken 
breasts, boneless and skinless, sliced in 
half to make thinner
 15 ounce (425g) can of chickpeas (drained)
 10 ounces (300g) cherry tomatoes
Toss to combine. Line a cookie sheet or baking pan 
with parchment paper (less cleaning!), transfer 
the ingredients, and spread out into a thin layer. 
Bake for 20–25 minutes. Sprinkle 1/2 cup (30g) 
chopped cilantro or flat parsley  on top. A Dinner Party for One 29Deborah Madison on Eating Alone
Deborah was the founding chef of 
Greens Restaurant in San Francisco, 
California, and is the author of many 
books on vegetarian cooking. In 2009, she 
coauthored the book What We Eat When 
We Eat Alone  (Gibbs Smith) with her 
husband, artist Patrick McFarlin.
What did you discover about 
how people cook when it’s just 
themselves?
We interviewed lots of people and 
began to see that people fell into 
categories. A woman who’s got small 
kids and a husband and finds herself 
home alone may make a bowl of 
oatmeal and eat it in the bathtub 
while listening to music. That’s very 
different from somebody who is 
eating alone day after day and makes 
something that’s healthful, delicious, 
and works for them. There’s a difference 
between people who are older, 
widowers or widows, compared to 
someone in school who’s simply tired 
of sandwiches. Then there are people 
who like to cook, who value good food 
and the experience of cooking. They 
have a whole other set of thoughts 
about cooking for themselves. Men are different from women a lot of times. 
Men tend to make a big thing and eat 
it all week long. This one bartender we 
talked to made a flank steak rolled with 
cheese and bacon. He was very proud 
of it and gave us the recipe. It served a 
lot of folks and that was his eat-alone 
food, so when he made it, he ate it all 
week.
I do have to say peanut butter was the 
most frequently mentioned eat-alone 
food. Peanut butter in all kinds of ways, 
many of them gross. A peanut butter 
sandwich with mayonnaise and fried 
onions and potato chips in it—you 
know, just crazy things. But people 
found their own taste. One woman 
made the most delicious plate of 
asparagus with torn bread and good 
olive oil and sharp vinegar. It’s a recipe 
I’ve used a lot and really like. 
It sounds like some people get 
really creative when no one’s 
looking.
People come up with what they like to 
eat alone. I think some are very proud 
of it, even the gross bits, and it works 
for them. They’re getting themselves 
fed. Others feel guilty that they don’t 
do more. People have very different 
values around cooking for themselves. 
One man talked about going into the 
kitchen and making lunch: “I look for 
vegetables and I always use the old, 
tired vegetables first,” because he felt 
sorry for them. He takes these old, tired 
vegetables and something else and 
makes a sandwich. That was his routine 
and it didn’t sound like it varied a lot, 
but it worked for him. He was satisfied. 
He wanted to use up those vegetables; 
it was important to him.What things about cooking alone 
surprised you?
What really delighted me was some 
of the young people we talked with. 
They were quite serious about cooking 
and they came to it for various reasons. 
This one medical student said he 
just couldn’t look at another Subway 
meatball sandwich. He went in for 
cooking lessons from his mother every 
Sunday. And then he was thrilled 
because he had the power to give a 
dinner party, and you can’t do that with 
a Subway sandwich. He said, “You know, 
it’s a lot like working in a lab. There are 
lots of things you’re paying attention 
to at once,” so he really enjoyed it. He 
loved being able to cook for his friends.
Another young person we talked to 
started to cook because he didn’t like 
the way his parents cooked. He wanted 
to be in charge. As he started to cook 
he found he could make those choices, 
which I thought was kind of sweet and 
amusing, and also effective because he 
learned to cook.
One woman said that when her kids 
were teenagers, but before they got 
super busy, she had them cook a meal 
one day a week. They had to do it all. 
She let them make mistakes, like not 
starting the brown rice until 15 minutes 
before dinner, so things didn’t come 
out at the same time. But she said they 
really learned that way and for her it 
was wonderful to come home at the 
end of a long workday and smell food 
cooking in the house. She said it was a 
great experience and when they finally 
grew up and left home, they had some 
basic survival skills. They could cook 
something.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 30The Power of a Dinner Party 
Cooking and entertaining others has the amazing power of bringing people together. 
As the host, you’re able to create an experience exactly the way you want, from table 
settings to music. Don’t be scared of cooking for others, whether it’s a dinner party, brunch, 
elevenses, or any other meal. As I mentioned earlier when talking about fears in the kitchen, 
dinner parties are not about the perfection of the food. Bringing people together over food 
is about engaging in lively conversation and fostering community.
Here are some quick pointers if you’re new to throwing dinner parties or brunches:
• Bring people together with intent, thinking about whom you’re inviting and how they’ll 
get along with other guests. When extending an invitation, be clear if it extends to others 
(specifying “and guest” or “ and friends”), and set expectations (should your guests arrive at 
7 pm sharp, 7-ish, or anytime? are you serving food or just snacks?).
• There’s an unofficial protocol in accepting dinner party invitations. It varies depending 
upon occasion and type of relationship, but when unsure, follow this script: guests 
should offer to bring something (“What can I bring?”), hosts should demur (“Just 
yourself!”), and guests should show up with something anyway (a bottle of whatever 
for the host to enjoy that night or another evening).
• Ask about allergies ahead of time. If you are cooking for someone with a true food 
allergy, you should take extra precautions. Likewise, if you have allergies yourself 
and are invited somewhere, it’s your duty to let the host know when you reply to the 
invitation; you may want to offer to bring a single portion of something for yourself to 
unburden the host from meeting your needs.
• Some guests may be following a restricted diet, either limiting certain types of foods 
(e.g., vegetarians don’t eat fish or meat, vegans avoid any animal products, and 
lacto-ovo-pescatarians eat milk, eggs, and seafood but no other meats) or limiting 
certain classes of foods (e.g., saturated fats, simple carbs, or salty foods). Then there 
are religious observations (e.g., kosher, halal). Regardless, if you’re up for the cooking 
constraints, talk with the guests to agree on something that suits their needs.
• Choose recipes that leave you time to spend with your guests. They’re there to see you! 
That doesn’t mean you need to have everything ready before guests arrive. Spending 
time with guests as you put together a meal can be a lovely beginning to an evening, 
as long as it lines up with what your guests expect.
• Have appetizers for your guests to snack on before you serve the meal. Simple things 
like bread and cheese, pita and hummus, or fresh fruit (grapes) and vegetables (carrots 
and dip) are quick, easy, and useful for guests who are hungry before the meal is ready.Take a look at 
page 445 for 
information on 
food allergies 
and common 
substitutions.
The Power of a Dinner Party 31Favorite Dinner Party Appetizers 
Appetizers , amuse-bouches (“amuse the mouth”),  
hors d’oeuvres : whatever you call them, they’re 
small nibbles of intense flavors in delicious 
combinations to excite diners for the meal 
ahead—or fend off any grumbling stomachs.
Often they’re simple; heck, a slice of good bread 
counts in my book. One friend sometimes serves 
a small cup of soup (cauliflower and celery 
root purée, last time), and while some may be 
unaccustomed to starting a meal this way, it 
does have history. The very first restaurant, at 
least as it’s claimed in Western history, opened 
in France in 1765, serving soups and broths 
as a “restorative,” claiming that they restored 
people’s strength. The proprietor hung a sign 
outside saying as much, using the French word for 
restorative: restaurant .
Most appetizers for dinner parties should 
be simple: olives, or bread with spreads like 
hummus or tapenade  (chopped olives, capers, and 
anchovies), or perhaps a small 
selection of sliced cured 
meats ( charcuterie ) 
picked up from the deli 
or butcher. Cheese and 
bread is common, but 
can be a dinner in and 
of itself if you’re not 
careful. (Eating cheese 
at the end of the meal 
makes more sense, in 
some ways.) What 
about some appetizers 
that take a little bit of 
prep work but are still 
quick and delicious? Here are a few of my favorite-to-make, favorite-to-
eat appetizers.
Roasted Green Olives.  This works well with 
large salt-brined green olives (pit-in) like 
Castelvetranos. If your variety doesn’t heat well, 
then just enjoy them cold. Using either your 
stovetop with a covered frying pan or your oven’s 
broiler with a heat-safe serving piece, heat the 
olives in a thin layer of olive oil at a moderate 
to high heat, occasionally shaking to roll the 
olives around. After a few minutes they should be 
slightly browned in a few areas and smell fragrant, 
with an almost floral aroma. Try roasting them 
with cherry tomatoes and adding fresh herbs after 
cooking.
Baked Goat Cheese with Almonds and Honey.  
Center a small, round piece of goat cheese on a 
microwave-safe plate, coat with a large spoonful 
of honey, and microwave for 30–60 seconds, 
until hot and partially melted. Toss a handful of 
Marcona almonds on top (they’re different from 
regular almonds—no papery skin and less bitter), 
or a layer of diced fresh herbs. Serve with crackers 
or bread.
Puff Pastry Squares or Twists. Snag a box of 
puff pastry from the freezer section of your 
grocery store. For appetizers, these can be cut 
into bite-sized squares and baked with any type 
of delightful, flavorful thing on top: cheese and a 
tomato slice, for example. Or make garlic twists : 
brush the top of a sheet with olive oil, sprinkle 
on diced garlic (or use a garlic press) and freshly 
ground pepper, and then cut into strips, 1/2” / 1 
cm wide. Pick up, twist like wringing a towel dry, 
and then bake on a cookie sheet at 400°F / 200°C 
for 10–15 minutes, until medium brown.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 32Presentation and Plating
“Looks delicious!” is a seemingly impossible phrase. How can you see what something 
will taste like? Presentation and plating —the arrangement of food on a plate—set an 
expectation for how food will taste, and when cooking for others, can be a powerful signal 
of much more than taste and flavor.
Food presentation is a form of signaling, most easily understood by looking at what biologists 
call signaling theory . In biology, animals use signals to communicate many intentions. Bright 
red coloration on frogs signals “poison!” , warding off predators. With time, other animals 
mimic the signals—imagine non–poisonous frogs that happen to be red—which leads to a 
race between honest signalers and copycats. This is why harder–to–copy signals replace older, 
copyable ones. Some gazelles ward off predators by pronking (now there’s a Scrabble word), 
jumping up high to demonstrate that they can also run fast. The cheetah that sees a gazelle 
pronk quickly learns that the gazelle isn’t worth chasing, saving both the cheetah and the 
gazelle an energy–intensive race. Weaker gazelles can’t copy the honest signal and suffer.
Humans use signaling too. Expensive sports cars aren’t practical, at least for driving around 
town, but they do signal one’s economic status. (Incidentally, this is why high-end sports cars 
have only two seats and little storage space: if the car were practical for daily chores, then it 
wouldn’t be a good signal of wealth.) Cooking from scratch and spending time making a meal 
is a signal, letting others know that you value them. Inviting guests over and preparing food for 
Brownies in an Orange
Presentation doesn’t have to be fancy, difficult, 
or expensive to signal “special!”, but it does 
need to be considered and different than what 
you normally do to communicate that thought. 
Take brownies: even if you make them using a 
mix (guilty pleasure!), baking them in an orange changes the presentation and shows thought. 
Remember, presentation depends upon your 
context, so making brownies in an orange will be 
special in some contexts (the person who never 
cooks showing an effort) but déclassé in other 
contexts.
Cut the top off and trim out the center.
 
Fill with brownie mix.
 Bake until a toothpick inserted 1” 
/ 2.5 cm deep comes out clean. 
Dust with powdered sugar.The Power of a Dinner Party 33them is a huge signal. Signaling theory partly explains why things like instant brownie mixes 
call for eggs and oil: in addition to the maker’s gratification I wrote about earlier in this chapter, 
requiring those ingredients leaves just enough work that the baker can signal their care.
Different situations require different signals to communicate a message, and this makes writing 
a universal list of “how to plate food” tricky. To understand presentation, one has to understand 
the message that one is trying to communicate and then pick the appropriate signal for the 
context. If you’re cooking an everyday meal, you wouldn’t want a fussy presentation. (Using a 
fussy, special presentation on an everyday occasion would be its own signal, perhaps softening 
the blow of imminent bad news.) If it’s a special date night, setting out cloth napkins and 
spending time on the way the food is plated is a way of signaling that it’s a special occasion. And 
with good friends, setting up an environment that matches the expectations of your social circle 
communicates your understanding of the group norms. Following a fine-dining restaurant-style 
presentation can be charming, or can come across aggrandizing, depending upon your peers.
Here are a few basic presentation tips if you do want to present food using appearances 
common to Western fine-dining.
Match the color and size of the plate to the food.  I’ve been surprised what a difference 
using a large plate can make; it’s like a frame around a picture. Some empty space on a 
plate is good! Color, too, can be instrumental. I find having two sets of plates—mine are 
either white or dark grey—makes it easier to pick one that contrasts well with the food. 
You can add color to a dish with food: a few herb leaves on the top of a bowl of soup, a 
dusting of freshly ground black pepper on roasted chicken breast, or powdered sugar on a 
chocolate dessert all add visual interest to otherwise monochromatic dishes.
Make it look different than traditional home-cooking.  If you’re plating a meal that has 
a vegetable, starch, and protein component, traditionally the three items would be placed 
next to each other, like wedges of a circle. Try placing the starch in the center of the plate 
and spreading it out in a thin layer, then adding the vegetable component on top of the 
starch, and finally stacking the protein on top of the vegetables. (If you want to go for 
extreme height, use a large can with both its top and bottom removed and stack the food 
inside it, and then slide the can up and away.)
Think about the size and arrangement of the food. All the rules of visual 
composition taught in art class (preschool counts!) apply to plating 
food. The “rule of odds” is one of the easiest: seeing either three or 
five meatballs on top of a bowl of pasta is generally considered more 
visually interesting than seeing four or six. Contrasts in size and 
shape help, too. If you’re serving pork chops, try slicing them into two 
pieces and placing one part angled up on top of the other. This will 
show the interior of the chop, both revealing how the meat is cooked 
and adding visual interest from arrangement and color contrast.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 34The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 
Figuring out which tools to have in your kitchen can be a daunting task. With so many 
products on the market, the number of choices you have can be overwhelming, especially 
for overly analytical perfectionists (you know who you are). What type of knife should I buy? 
Which pan is right for me? Should I buy that cherry pitter?
Take a deep breath and relax. To a newbie, kitchen equipment probably seems like the secret 
to success, but in all honesty, it isn’t that  important. A sharp knife, a pan, a cutting board, and a 
spoon to stir with, and you’re covered for 80% of the recipes out there and have more kitchen 
equipment than 90% of the world’s population. Heck, in some parts of the world, people just 
have one pot and a spatula that’s been sharpened on one side to double as a knife.
Having good tools does make cooking more 
enjoyable. The right answer for which model of 
equipment to buy is: whatever works for you, is 
comfortable, and is safe . The next few pages offer my 
take on kitchen gear, but it’s up to you to experiment. 
Modify my suggestions to fit your needs.
The best kitchen gear tip that I can offer is this: look 
for a commercial restaurant supply store. These 
stores stock aisle after aisle of every conceivable 
cooking, serving, and dining room product, down 
to the “Please wait to be seated” signs. If you can’t 
find such a store, the Internet, as they say, “is your 
friend”: you can order anything online.Use your hands when cooking! They’re the best tool in 
the kitchen. After a good scrubbing with soap, they’re 
just as clean as anything else and infinitely more 
dexterous. Tearing lettuce leaves? Squeezing a lemon? 
Putting the entrée on a plate? Use your hands. 
Also, learn  what various temperatures feel like: hold 
your hand above a hot pan, and notice how far away 
you can still “feel” the heat. Stick your hand in an oven 
set to medium heat, remember that feeling, then 
compare it to when you’re working with a hot oven. 
For liquids, you can generally put your hand in water at 
around 130°F / 55°C for a second or two, but at 140°F / 
60°C it’ll pretty much be a reflexive “ouch!”
The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 35The Two Things You Should Do to Your Oven RIGHT NOW 
One piece of equipment that you’re probably 
stuck with is your oven. What makes an oven 
“good” is its ability to accurately measure and 
regulate heat. Since so much of cooking is about 
controlling the rate of chemical reactions using 
heat, an oven that keeps a steady temperature 
and isn’t too cold or too hot can make a huge 
difference in your cooking and baking. There are 
two things you can do to make sure you get the 
best results with what you have:
Calibrate your oven.  Get a digital probe 
thermometer and check that setting your oven 
to 350°F / 180°C actually lines up with the 
thermometer, placing the thermometer in the 
same location in the oven as your baked goods are 
going to go. If the temperature is way off, check 
to see if your oven has either an adjustment knob 
or a calibration offset setting. Otherwise, keep in 
mind the offset when setting temperatures. Your 
oven will cycle a bit above and below the target 
temperature—the oven will overshoot its target 
temperature, then turn off, cool down, turn back 
on, and so on. It’s possible that your oven could 
be correctly calibrated but measure too hot or too 
cool, so check the thermometer several times over 
a span of 10 minutes.
Improve your oven’s recovery time and even out 
the heat: always keep a baking or pizza stone 
in your oven.  Say you’re baking cookies: oven set 
to 375°F / 190°C, cookies on pan, ready to go. In 
an empty oven, the only thing hot is the air and 
the oven walls, and opening the door to pop the 
cookies in leaves you with just hot oven walls. 
You’ll get much better results by keeping a baking or pizza stone on the very bottom rack in your 
oven. (Don’t place the cookie sheet directly on the 
pizza stone!)
The baking stone does two things. First, it acts 
as a thermal mass, meaning faster recovery times 
for the hot air lost when you open the door to put 
your cookies in. Second, if you have an electric 
oven, the stone serves as a diffuser between the 
heating element and the bottom of your baking 
tray. The heating element emits a hefty kick of 
thermal radiation, which normally hits the bottom 
side of whatever bakeware you put in the oven. By 
interposing between the heating element and the 
tray, the stone blocks the direct thermal radiation 
and evens out the temperature, leading to a more 
uniform heat. Buy the thickest, heaviest stone 
you can. Like any thermal mass, a stone will add 
lag to heating up the oven (and cooling it down—
that’s the point!), so make sure to allow extra 
time to preheat your oven.
16 minutes
80 100 20 0 40 60350°F
~175°C400°F
~200°C
300°F
~150°CWithout stoneWith stone24 minutes
Time (in minutes)
An oven with a baking stone takes longer to heat up but 
remains warmer when food is put in and bakes it faster.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 36
What if you don’t  have a digital thermometer and 
need to check an oven? It’s common practice to 
calibrate thermometers with ice water and boiling 
water because those have temperatures based on 
the physical properties of water. Water isn’t the only 
chemical in the kitchen with known temperature-
dependent properties, though: you can also calibrate 
your oven’s thermometer using sugar!
Mankind has been harvesting sugar for millennia, 
but only in the past few hundred years have we 
industrialized it. The sugar you buy most likely 
comes from either the sugarcane or sugar beet 
plant, which is soaked in hot water to dissolve out 
its sugar into a syrup that’s then crystallized. The 
white table sugar that you’re familiar with is ~99% 
sucrose—a pure substance (C12H22O11)—with the 
rest being water and a tiny percentage of stuff like 
trace minerals and ash that come along for the ride.
First, grab these supplies:
• Aluminum foil
• Sugar
• A timer• A plate (for hot sugar 
samples)
• And, obviously, an 
oven!
Here’s what to do:
The sucrose in table sugar melts at 367°F / 186°C. It 
turns from the familiar white granulated substance 
to something resembling glass. (Sucrose undergoes 
a chemical breakdown at low temperatures; see 
page 221.) A properly calibrated oven won’t melt 
sugar when set to 350°F / 180°C but it will when 
set to 375°F / 190°C.
We’re going to bake two different samples of sugar 
at two different temperatures, one hopefully 
below and the other above sugar’s melting point, 
to check your oven’s temperature.1. Preheat your oven to 350°F / 180°C.
2. Make two aluminum foil “sample containers”:
a) Tear the aluminum foil into 5” × 5” (12 cm 
× 12 cm) squares. 
b) Fold the edges of each piece up, making 
a miniature pan that’s about 4” / 10 cm 
square and ½”/ 1 cm high.
3. Add a spoonful of sugar into each sample 
container.
4. Put the first sample container in the 
preheated oven (350°F / 180°C). Set a timer 
for 20 minutes and wait.
5. After 20 minutes, remove the first sample and 
transfer it to your plate. Remember, the sugar 
is hot, even if it doesn’t look it!
6. Set your oven to 375°F / 190°C and wait 10 
minutes for it to adjust.
7. Put the second sample container in the oven. 
Set a timer for 20 minutes and wait.
8. After 20 minutes, remove the second sample 
and transfer it to your plate.
Investigation time!
What differences do you see between the two 
samples? Why do you think that happened? Compare 
the 350°F / 177°C sample with some uncooked sugar; 
what do you notice? Why might that be happening? 
And the best part of the investigation: once the 
samples have cooled down, taste them! What does 
the 375°F / 190°C sample remind you of?
Sugar at 350°F / 177°C.
 Sugar at 375°F / 190°C.Lab: The Sweet Way to Calibrate Your OvenThe Basics of Kitchen Equipment 37Knives 
Knives are humankind’s oldest and most important tool, for good 
reason: they make cooking and eating possible. Cooking—preparing 
food for eating, in its most basic sense—is what created society, and 
over time, better knives advanced our ability to prepare food. Metal 
blades replaced ones of flint and obsidian, and this ability to work with 
metal literally defined the boundary between the Stone Age and the 
beginnings of historical times in some parts of the world.
Steel replaced other metals—bronze, iron—some 4,000 years ago, and 
presumably shortly thereafter was  forged for culinary purposes. Modern 
steel knife blades are now manufactured in one of two ways: forging and 
stamping. Forged  blades tend to be heavier and “drag” through cuts better 
due to the additional material present in the blade. Stamped  blades are 
lighter and tend to be cheaper because of the way they’re manufactured. 
Which type of knife is better is highly subjective; to some, knives are a very  
personal choice. Personally, I’m perfectly happy with cheaper stamped knives. 
Make sure you know how the knife feels in your hand before you buy it!
Regardless of material when cutting, you should “pull” the knife through 
the food (don’t just press straight down, except for soft foods like cheese 
or a banana, and don’t “saw”; use smooth, long motions). Here are the 
three knives  everyone should have:
Chef’s knife.  A typical chef’s knife is between 8” / 20 cm and 10” / 25 cm 
long and has a slightly curved blade; this allows for rocking the blade 
for chopping and pulling the blade through foods. If you have smaller 
hands, you might want to look at a Santoku-style knife, a Japanese-
inspired design that has an almost flat blade and a thinner cross section 
that’s best suited for straight up-and-down cutting motions.
Paring knife.  A paring knife has a small (~4” / 10 cm) blade and is 
designed so you can hold the knife in one hand and the food item in 
the other, for tasks such as removing the core from an apple quarter or 
cutting out bad spots on a potato. The almost pencil-like grip design of 
some commercial paring knives allows you to rotate the knife between 
your fingers, so you cut around something by rotating the knife instead 
of rotating the food item. 
Bread knife.  A bread knife has a serrated blade, typically between 6” / 15 
cm and 10” / 25 cm long. While not an everyday knife, they’re handy for 
cutting items besides bread: oranges, grapefruits, melons, and tomatoes 
all cut more easily with a serrated blade.I’m always thinking about the 
“failure mode”: if the knife 
slips, where  will it go? Watching 
someone use a knife improperly 
is like hearing fingernails on a 
chalkboard.
Keep the knife moving in one vertical 
plane, moving the food through 
instead of sliding the knife over. Feed 
items into the cutting plane with 
your fingers positioned so that they 
can’t get cut. Keep your fingers of the 
hand holding the item curled back so 
that if the knife slips your fingers will 
be out of harm’s way. You can also 
rub the side of the knife against your 
knuckles to maintain better control.
When scraping food off a cutting 
board, flip the knife over and 
use the back side of the blade to 
avoid blunting the sharp side.
There’s more than one way to hold 
a knife: instead of using a “club grip” 
(left), try using a “pinch grip” (right). 
You’ll have more dexterity this way.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 38One-Hour French Onion Soup
A large chef’s knife, a cutting board, and a huge 
bag of onions: the perfect way to learn how to 
slice, dice, chop, and peel. If you’ve never made 
French onion soup, it’s easy if you have good knife 
technique. For a lovely demonstration of “the dog 
work” of knife technique and cutting onions, see 
the “Your Own French Onion Soup” episode of Julia 
Child’s The French Chef:  http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/onionsoup/ . While some things have 
changed—better metallurgy in knives, for one—the 
fundamental techniques haven’t. Watching her cook 
and teach is a joy.
Earlier recipes for soupe à l’oignon , like one from 
1651, call for either water or beef broth; another old 
one suggests adding capers on top after cooking. 
Julia Child’s version calls for homemade chicken and beef stock, but while you should make your own 
stock at some point (see page 350), it takes more 
time than most of us have for an evening meal. 
My version here uses vegetable broth (I prefer the 
taste) and puts a microwave (“Imagine that!”) to 
clever use.
Set out a cutting board and, next to it, a large 
microwave-safe container for sliced onions. Add 4 
tablespoons (60g) of butter  to the container.
Slice 4–6 large yellow onions, about 2 pounds 
(900g) . Start by cutting the root and stem ends 
off, slicing in half (top to bottom), and then 
peeling off the skin. Make sure to remove any 
tough outer layer, as it’ll end up in your soup. 
Chop the onion halves into slices, transferring to 
Why do onions make you cry? 
We now know there’s more to it than onion juices splatting up into your eyes. When the cells of the onion are 
crushed, an enzyme (alliinase) reacts with sulfoxides from the onion’s cells to produce sulfenic acid, which stabilizes 
into a sulfuric gas (technically syn-propanethial-S-oxide) that can react with water to produce sulfuric acid. When 
you’re cutting onions, the sulfuric gas interacts with the water in your eyes’ lacrimal fluid to generate sulfuric acid, 
which triggers your eyes to tear up to flush the sulfuric acid.
Knowing the science behind why onions make you cry explains why some tricks to prevent crying work. There 
are three stages that lead to tears: alliinase reacting with sulfoxides, sulfuric gas reaching your eyes, and that gas 
interacting with your eyes. Interrupt any one of those stages, and you’ll reduce an onion’s lachrymatory properties. 
Here are a few methods:
Use a sharp knife and good technique.  Using a sharp knife reduces the amount of liquid expelled from the onion 
tissue when cut; keeping the onion together as you slice it reduces the amount of sulfenic acid exposed to air. 
Chill the onions first.  Enzymatic reactions and volatile reactions are temperature dependent, so a good hour or two 
in the fridge or freezer will reduce the amount of sulfenic acid created. (Don’t store onions in the fridge, though—see 
page 119.)
Wet your knife, onions, and cutting board. The sulfides that lead to tears happen to be water soluble, so a modest 
amount of water can help. This isn’t a great solution, though—cutting slippery things is hard.
Keep the gases from reaching your eyes.  Using a fan, cutting in a well-ventilated space, or even wearing ridiculous-
looking swimming goggles will reduce the amount of sulfuric gas that can reach your eyes to trigger a reaction.
The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 39the container as needed to free up space on your 
cutting board.
Now for the unorthodox part. Cooking onions on 
the stovetop is a thermal balancing act between 
getting the stove hot enough to simmer the 
onions in their own liquid but keeping it cool 
enough to not dry them out and burn them. 
Microwaving onions may sound crazy, but it nails 
this balancing act perfectly: the microwave heats 
the water in the onions, causing them to simmer, 
but doesn’t excite the drier parts and thus 
doesn’t burn them. It still takes as long—30 to 45 
minutes—but it’s astonishingly simple.
Microwave the onions and butter for 15 minutes 
on high power, then stir them together. The 
onions should be translucent and wilted at this 
point, but not brown. Fetch out any bits of 
onion skin that accidentally made it in while 
you’re at it. Nuke for another 15 minutes. Stir again, and again fetch out any bits of onion skin 
that somehow made it in. The onions should 
be getting smaller in volume at this point, and 
perhaps beginning to turn brown. Microwave for 
additional 5-minute intervals until the onions 
have reduced way down and are mahogany brown.
Transfer the onions to a pot and stir in:
 1 quart (~1 liter) unsalted vegetable stock
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) brandy, whiskey, 
or sherry (optional, but adds a very 
nice depth; use sherry if you like the 
sweetness)
 1 teaspoon (6g) salt
  Freshly ground pepper
Taste and adjust the seasoning as desired, taking 
care to not oversalt the liquid as the cheese will 
balance that out. You can store the soup at this 
point for several days in the fridge. 
To serve, bring the soup to a simmer. Ladle it 
into oven-safe soup bowls (or a shallow oven-safe 
pan, if you’re serving family-style) and cover it 
with slices of dried, toasted bread . (Do not skip 
drying and toasting the bread; you will end up 
with soggy wet goo. You can use stale bread and 
toast it; otherwise, dry the slices of bread out in a 
300°F / 150°C oven and then toast them.)
Cover the bread with a generous layer of sliced 
cheese that melts well , such as Gruyère, 
Fontina,  or Emmental , creating a 
layer of 1/8” / 0.5 cm cheese slices 
across the entire top.
Melt and toast the cheese 
under a broiler, cooking 
it until a few spots are 
just on the verge of 
burning.How to cut an onion
Cut the onion in half and place 
the cut side down on a cutting 
board. Make two to three 
horizontal cuts into the onion, 
cutting toward the root stem side. 
Don’t cut all the way through; 
leave the last part uncut so that 
the onion doesn’t come apart.
Make a set of vertical cuts, 
again taking care to leave 
the root end uncut.
Rotate the onion and 
make a final set of vertical 
cuts, which will result 
in diced onion bits.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 40Buck Raper on KnivesPHOTOS USED BY PERMISSION OF BUCK RAPER
Buck Raper is the manager of 
manufacturing and engineering for 
Dexter-Russell, the largest and oldest 
cutlery manufacturer in the United States. 
Above, Buck holds a knife next to an edge 
sharpness and edge life test apparatus in 
the metallurgy lab.
How did you come to work at 
Dexter-Russell?
In a former life, I was working on 
a doctorate in synthetic organic 
chemistry.
Wow. What happened?
I got drafted to Vietnam.
And then you came back…
I came back and there weren’t many 
job opportunities for PhD chemists, 
and I was still looking at two more 
years in school, and I had a family to 
support. So I went and got an MBA and 
got twice the starting salary I would 
have gotten as a PhD. My family had 
always been in the cutlery business—
my grandfather and my father—and 
all I ever heard was knife talk. When I was a Baby Buck, my father would 
take me into the pocketknife factory 
on Saturday mornings and hand me 
off to a foreman so he could get some 
work done, and I’d make knives with a 
foreman.
Did the background in chemistry, 
combined with your family’s history 
in knife making, complement each 
other?
To some degree… but it was 
more of the scientific method and 
analytical techniques that you learn 
in a hard science, applying them to 
manufacturing. I looked at it from a 
different standpoint than a history 
major MBA would, or an English 
major MBA would. Coming from a real 
science, you take a different approach, 
an engineering approach.
Can you give me an example?
Much of the heat treating, the grinding, 
and the choice of steels was done 
almost by folklore. It’s always been 
done that way and nobody remembers 
why. Now when we’re trying to choose 
a steel for a particular application, we 
do some testing, make some blades, 
and try them out to see what the 
results are. We have a control sample 
and record data. That’s the type of 
change that I made. Dexter-Russell 
is 192 years old, and we still have 
machinery and tooling that we were 
using at the turn of the century, from 
1900. Those techniques still work and 
they’re still very good, but nobody 
really knew why we were doing things 
the way we were doing them.What surprised you when you were 
testing the folklore?
We’re number one in professional oyster 
knives, and there’s the chronic problem 
with the tips of oyster knives breaking 
off. We had a heat-treatment process 
that we thought was making the steel 
hard enough to not break. The theory 
was if the blade is breaking, make it 
harder, and then the tip won’t break 
off. The reality was what we needed to 
do was to make tougher steel. So we 
changed our heat treatment process to 
create a tougher, softer steel.
What does it mean for a steel to be 
tough versus hard?
It’s a trade-off to hold an edge. The 
harder the steel is, the better it will hold 
an edge. But you also want to have 
some flexibility. If you need a flexible 
bone or fillet knife, a harder steel is more 
brittle; it would fracture. So you have to 
trade off the hardness for the toughness 
that allows you some flexibility. The 
toughness also gives you wearability, 
resistance to abrasion. One way an edge 
fails is that you literally wear away the 
grains of steel, and to resist that, you’re 
looking for a tough steel.
When you heat-treat steel, you 
martenize it to the temperature that’s 
going to give you the maximum 
hardness.  [Martensite  is a type of 
crystalline structure in metal formed 
by rapid changes in temperature.] But 
if you underheat it, if you undercook it 
a little bit, it comes out tougher. If you 
overcook it, it’s also tough, but then 
it corrodes. In our case, when we’re 
talking heat-treatable stainless 400 
series steel, the optimum temperature The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 41steel being tougher, it is harder to 
create the edge, so stainless steel often 
gets a bad reputation because people 
can’t sharpen it correctly. It is possible 
to get carbon steel 5% sharper, but you 
would never perceive that using a knife. 
You need the scientific apparatus to 
bring out that difference. The practical 
difference is it’s very easy to bring up an 
edge on carbon steel, so most people’s 
carbon steel knives are sharper because 
they’re easier to resharpen. A carbon 
steel knife responds very easily to a 
butcher’s steel; you have to work a little 
bit more with a stainless steel knife.
I’m going to ask the question that’ll 
probably lead to the gates of hell: 
how do I sharpen a knife correctly?
There are lots of ways to do it. Probably 
the best general-purpose way and 
what I recommend to people is to 
use a diamond sharpening steel. The 
traditional serrated butcher’s steel is a 
½” or 5/8” rod (1.2–1.6 cm) with ridges 
running longitudinally. Those are now 
being replaced by rods that are plated 
with diamond. The diamond rod brings 
up an edge very quickly, because it’s 
hard enough to remove metal, creating 
a new edge.
An edge is actually a whole bunch of 
little burrs, sort of like hacksaw teeth that 
are standing up, perpendicular to the 
back of the blade. When you cut, those 
little burrs (here we call them feathers ) 
roll over. The first thing that happens 
when you swipe with a butcher’s steel 
is you stand those feathers up, and you 
have a real good edge. After a time, 
they bend back and forth. They work-
harden and break off, like breaking a 
wire by twisting it until it work-hardens 
and snaps. Then you have to create a 
new edge, new burrs, and the grit on a 
diamond steel is perfect for that. That’s Are there other types of steels 
that you would want to use for 
particular purposes for knife 
making?
We want to use a stainless steel, 
although carbon steel makes wonderful 
knives. Everybody likes their old carbon 
steel knives, but nowadays, with 
the National Sanitation Foundation 
and other regulatory bodies, you 
can’t use carbon steel knives in most 
restaurants. We choose stainless, which 
has chromium in it; the chromium 
makes it stainless. You also have to 
have carbon in the steel so that you 
can harden it. You add more carbon 
if you want to create a harder blade, 
and more chromium if you need to get 
more corrosion resistance. When you 
heat-treat it, you want to come out 
with a very fine texture, and things like 
molybdenum, vanadium, tungsten, 
and cobalt help you get a fine grain. 
Tungsten and cobalt help make the 
steel tougher.
What’s the rationale prohibiting 
carbon knives in restaurants?
They rust, and rust is iron oxide. It’s 
dirty, and where the blade has rusted, 
there are pits that will retain grease. The 
grease will breed bacteria. It’s usually 
controlled by city or state or county 
ordinance.
Carbon steel versus stainless steel: 
which is better?
That was a classic question that I 
wondered about for 30 years. I finally 
had a seminar with a metallurgist from 
a French steel mill, and he developed a 
machine to test the sharpness of edges 
and the life of edges. The answer is that 
you can get a carbon steel edge about 
5% sharper while a stainless steel edge 
will last about 5% longer. With stainless is 1,934°F / 1,057°C. If you heat it to 
1,950°F / 1,066°C, you get the same 
hardness that you would if you heat it 
to 1,920°F / 1,049°C, but one is tougher, 
and the other will corrode.
Steel is formed of grains. If you were 
to snap a knife blade in half, and look 
at it with the naked eye, the texture 
would look like fine cement inside the 
knife. What you’re seeing is groups of 
grains. Steel exists in 9 or 10 different 
phases. Depending on how it’s been 
processed, temperature-wise, it has a 
mixture of these various phases, and 
that determines the toughness of the 
steel. I use the analogy of baking a cake 
when I’m explaining heat treatment. 
You have raw dough and expose it to 
heat. There’s a chemical change and a 
phase change, and you go from slurry 
to a porous solid once it’s baked.
With steel, once it is heated to a 
critical temperature, cooling—called 
quenching —is also critical. You’ve 
probably seen old movies where the 
blacksmith is pounding away; when 
he gets the iron hot, he plunges it into 
the water and there’s a hiss of steam. 
The reason for that is the rapid cooling. 
In the case of stainless steel, you have 
to get it below 1,350°F / 732°C in less 
than three minutes in order to maintain 
the phase that you want. If you cool 
it slower, you get a different mixture 
of phases in the steel. So it’s not just 
in bringing it up to temperature; the 
cooling curve is key.
Steel is also determined by the alloy. 
There are two or three dozen different 
types of stainless cutlery steels, and 
stainless cutlery steels are just a very 
small subset of alloyed steels. Alloyed 
steels are a subset of carbon steels. 
And all the heat-treatment processes 
are determined by which alloy you’re 
working with.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 42So these knives actually go through 
a series of different lives? As they 
get smaller from sharpening, they 
get repurposed and reused?
They get narrower, and they get shorter. 
People find different applications for 
them. The poultry industry still does 
that. What I’m talking about is mostly 
pre-WWII. After WWII, people started 
coming to us and saying, “Hey, can’t 
you make this shape from scratch?” So 
we started to create the same shape as 
the worn-out knife. You wouldn’t have 
to wear out a giant cimeter; you could 
just buy a breaking knife off the shelf. 
A lot of our traditional knife shapes 
have evolved from large blades that 
were worn down and used for different 
applications, and then we started 
making a blade with that shape.
What advice would you give 
somebody new to the kitchen?
If I were being a smartass, I would tell 
you don’t run with a knife. Keep your 
knives out of the dishwasher. Wipe 
them clean with a damp rag. When you 
put them in the dishwasher, they bang 
together and you nick up your edges. 
If you do put them in the dishwasher, 
make sure you pull them right out of the 
basket and dry them off. Keep up with 
your sharpening; don’t let your knife 
get dull. Maintain the edge every time 
you use it or every other time you use it. 
Give it one or two strokes on a steel and 
sharpening will never be a chore, and 
you will always have a sharp knife.cut the metal if the file isn’t harder than 
the metal it’s cutting. If you let your 
knife get very dull, bringing the edge 
back is a real bear. If you give it a few 
strokes on a butcher’s steel every other 
day, or once a week, or every time you 
go to put the knife in the drawer, then 
the knife is always ready.
At what point is a knife effectively 
used up? [Buck shares with me 
the photo shown below.] I cannot 
believe how much the bottom knife 
has been sharpened away compared 
to the new knife on top. What’s the 
story with this actual knife?
Whoever was resharpening that knife 
was very, very good. It came back 
to our customer service people for 
replacement from a mom-and-pop 
butcher shop. I train our sales force, and 
one of the questions they ask is how 
long is a knife useful. I show them this. 
That’s pushing the ridiculous. I would 
think that that knife had seen about five 
or six years of service.
We usually find in a restaurant that a 
knife is good for six to nine months. With 
professional cutlery, and in particular 
with packing houses, they’ll need a 
wide blade for breaking down a side 
of beef. They need a large curved knife, 
which we call a cimeter steak knife . When 
it starts out life, it’s about 2 ½” (6 cm) 
wide, and when it gets down to about 
1” or 1 ¼” (2.5–3 cm) wide, it’s no longer 
suitable for breaking down the big 
sides of beef. So then they use it for the 
smaller cuts, and call it a breaking knife . 
When they wear it down to about under 
an inch, they use it as a boning knife .what the long serrations do on your 
regular butcher’s steel, but it’s a lot easier 
to do with a diamond steel. When you 
run a knife edge along a steel, you stand 
up the burrs, and you start thinning 
down the edge. I can do it with the back 
of a porcelain plate, or I can rub a knife 
on a brick wall and bring up the edge, 
but a diamond steel is best.
I’ve made a lot of trips to China, and 
they have very primitive kitchens as far 
as equipment, tools, and utensils go. 
They make do with the one basic knife. 
People call it a cleaver, but it’s not really 
a cleaver. It’s a slicer and a spatula and 
a scraper and everything else, but with 
that one knife, they stop and squat on 
the floor and bring the edge back on a 
brick that’s in the floor. They keep those 
knives very, very sharp. I learned in 
Chinese cooking how nicely things are 
sliced up counts as much as the taste, 
the presentation, and the freshness of 
ingredients. All of that can be ruined if 
you have cut raggedy chunks.
I would recommend either a diamond 
butcher’s steel or a whetstone. But 
a whetstone takes more skill, more 
training to use. I would stay away from 
electric sharpeners.
At some point the burrs snap off, 
and I presume that’s the point at 
which one needs to actually grind 
down the edge of the knife to form 
a new edge?
With a diamond steel, you’re doing 
grinding at the same time you’re 
straightening up the edge. A traditional 
butcher’s steel isn’t hard enough to 
remove metal. The deal with using a 
butcher’s steel is your steel has to be 
harder than the metal of the blade 
you’re sharpening. Otherwise, you get 
nowhere, like using a common file to 
smooth or shape metal. Your file won’t The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 43Knife Sharpening 101
Keeping your knives sharp is the kitchen 
equivalent of flossing or wearing sunscreen: it’s 
something you’re probably not doing often enough.
• Sharp knives require less pressure for making 
cuts, so there’s less force involved. You’re less 
likely to slip and cut yourself.
• Sharp knives cut cleaner; there is less “tear” 
through whatever you’re cutting.
• Sharp knives keep your arm from getting tired 
because you don’t have to muscle through 
things. Of course, you’d need to be slicing and 
dicing for many hours to notice.
Keeping your knives in good working order 
involves both keeping the blade “true” (in 
alignment) and grinding down the blade to 
reshape the edge if the trued shape is lost. To 
keep your knives true, use a sharpening steel 
(those steel rods ubiquitous in celebrity chef 
photos) as part of your cleanup and wash routine 
at the end of a cooking session. By running the 
knife against the sharpening steel, you push 
any portion of the edge that is out of alignment 
(“burrs”) back into alignment. (Don’t try to true 
a serrated knife—regular sharpening steels won’t 
fit against the serrated edge.) Look for a diamond-
coated sharpening steel; the diamond coating 
is harder than the steel used even in stamped 
blades, so it can both realign the burrs and create 
a new edge, keeping the knife truly sharp, and 
actually remove the need to reshape the edge.
More serious sharpening involves grinding 
down the blade to form a new edge and can be 
done against any hard surface: a sharpening 
stone, grinding wheels, even a brick! (See the 
interview with Buck Raper on the preceding pages 
for details.) Sharpening by grinding the blade 
down, as opposed to truing the blade, has one major downside: creating the new edge removes 
material, reducing the life of the knife. Still, even 
with constant truing, knife blades will dull.
Regardless of how you sharpen a blade—
sharpening stones (whetstones) are popular—
you’ll need to think about blade angles. The angle 
of a blade can be measured in degrees between 
the side of the knife and the surface grinding it. 
A 10° angle is sharper than a 20° one, but also 
more prone to dull as the sharper angle means 
thinner metal at the tip, making the edge weaker. 
Blades have two sides, so a knife sharpened at 20° 
on each side has an edge that’s cumulatively 40°. 
Kitchen knives are generally around 15–20° (on 
each side). The angle isn’t necessarily the same on 
both sides. Some chefs like their knives with an 
asymmetric grind—say, 12° angle on one side and 
20° angle on the other—so that when cutting, the 
knife doesn’t drift sideways. (A right-handed cook 
will line up the blade with the food by looking 
from the left side due to the food being positioned 
in the left hand, so there’s a bias in cutting.) 
Sharpening angles can become complicated by 
mixing two different angles, with a side having a 
second sharpening pass with a steeper angle; this 
leaves more metal near the tip to create a stronger 
base with a sharper edge that will last longer. 
Some commercial manufacturers even use convex, 
curving profiles. As you can see, there’s a lot to 
explore with sharpening! One tip:   try coloring the 
edge of the blade with a black marker, so that you 
can more easily inspect the progress of your work.
Slicing:  15–20°Meat cleavers:  20–25°
Santoku:  12–15°Axes:  25–40°
SharperMore Durable
Standard
kitchen knife
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 44Cutting Boards 
Cutting boards come in two main varieties: wooden and synthetic. Wooden cutting 
boards are made of close-grained hardwoods like maple or walnut and have a lovely, 
warm feel; synthetic boards are made of plastics like nylon or polyethylene and have 
the benefit of price. Avoid using glass or stone cutting boards for anything other than 
serving; they dull knives.
Which material is safer depends. Running a cutting board 
through a dishwasher sterilizes it, killing any salmonella or 
E. coli  present from meats or unwashed veggies. Wooden 
cutting boards aren’t dishwasher safe—hot water warps 
wood—but wooden cutting boards are more forgiving 
to lapses in sanitization due to the chemical properties 
of wood. Researchers have found that home chefs using 
plastic cutting boards were twice as likely to contract 
salmonellosis than those using wooden cutting boards, 
even when they hand-washed the board after contact 
with raw meat. If you use synthetic cutting boards, make 
sure to wash them properly.
Personally, I use a plastic cutting board for raw meats and a wooden one for cooked items 
because I find the difference to be an easy visual reminder, and if I do slip up on washing 
one correctly, there’s less chance of  cross-contamination. Beyond the food safety issues, 
there are a couple of practical aspects to keep in mind:
• Look for cutting boards that are at least 12” × 18” (30 cm × 45 cm); too small, and 
you won’t have space to chop or dice things.
• Some cutting boards have a groove around the edge to prevent liquids from 
running over the side. This is handy when you’re working with wet items, but it 
makes transferring dry items, such as diced herbs, more difficult. Keep this in mind 
when choosing a board.
• If your board starts to smell (say, from working with garlic or fish), use lemon juice 
and salt to neutralize the odors.
• Place a kitchen towel under your cutting board to prevent it from moving while 
you’re working.
Use the butcher paper that meats come in as an impromptu 
disposable cutting board for them. One less dish to wash!The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 45Pots and Pans 
I like to think I have a  minimalist kitchen at the moment, having downsized 
in a recent move, but even so, my collection of pots and pans numbers five: 
two frying pans (one with a nonstick coating), a saucepan (an odd-lot one I 
picked up in college), a stockpot (thanks, Dad!), and a small cast iron pot. The 
cost of these five pans probably adds up to more than the rest of my current 
kitchen gear combined. That strikes me as about right.
Frying pans are shallow, wide pans with slightly sloped edges. If you 
can only have one pan, get a nonstick frying pan—it’s the easiest to use. 
Since nonstick coatings prevent the formation of fond  (the bits of food 
that brown in the bottom of the pan and add flavor to sauces), consider 
purchasing a stainless steel frying pan as well.
Saucepans , roughly as wide as they are tall and with straight sides, hold 
a few quarts/liters of liquid. Look for a pan that has a thick base, as this 
will avoid hot spots. Make sure to pick up a lid as well; they’re sometimes 
sold separately.
Stockpots hold a gallon or more of liquid (~4+ liters) and are useful for 
blanching vegetables, cooking pasta, and making soups. The stockpot I use 
is one of the cheap stainless steel commercial varieties. Be sure to snag a lid!
Cast iron pans have a much higher thermal mass than other pans, 
making them ideal for searing foods. Certain sizes are also great for 
baking dishes like cornbread. Avoid stewing highly acidic ingredients 
such as tomatoes in cast iron; they’ll react chemically. Always, always  
dry your cast iron pan after washing: clean it by rinsing and optionally 
scrubbing with a plastic scouring pad (or salt and a towel), heat it over a 
burner for a minute, and then wipe the inside with a very thin layer of oil.
How do they get a nonstick coating to stick to the 
pan if it doesn’t stick to anything? 
By using a chemical that sticks to both the nonstick 
coating and the pan, called an adhesion promoter . 
Perfluorooctanoic  acid (PFOA) is the adhesion promoter 
of choice these days. Unfortunately, it’s rather toxic, 
but according to the US Environmental Protection 
Agency (EPA), it’s used only as a processing aid during 
manufacturing, and manufacturers claim that it’s not 
present in the finished products.
Buy more than one frying pan so you can cook 
different components of a dish at the same time.What’s seasoning a cast iron 
pan mean?
Seasoning  is culinary lingo for 
developing a nonstick finish 
based on fats that have been 
heated high enough to break 
down and bond to each other 
and the pan’s surface. 
You should season new pans (or 
reseason old ones in need of care) 
by thoroughly scrubbing them 
with soapy water, drying them 
on a burner for a minute, and 
then coating all sides with a thin 
layer of fat. Traditionally lard or 
tallow was used, although any oil 
should work; some cooks swear 
by raw flaxseed oil. Wipe away as 
much of the oil as possible, place 
the pan in the oven, set the oven 
to 500°F / 260°C, bake for 60–90 
minutes, and then turn the oven 
off and allow the pan to cool 
inside. Repeat a few times if the 
finish seems too thin, or just do 
the wipe and baking steps as part 
of regular post-use cleaning the 
first few times you use the pan.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 46Metals, Pans, and Hot Spots 
What’s the deal with  pans made of different 
metals or with various combinations sandwiched 
together? It has to do with the differences in 
thermal conductivity  (how quickly heat energy 
moves through a material) and heat capacity  (how 
much energy it takes to heat a material, which is 
the same as how much energy it’ll give off when 
cooling).
Let’s start with the thermal conductivity of 
common metals in pans, along with a few other 
materials for reference.
Air: 0.025
Water: 0.6
Ice: 2.0
Stainless Steel: 12–45
Cast Iron: 55
Aluminum Alloys: 120–180
Thermal Conductivity
(Watts per Kelvin per meter)Better Insulators Better ConductorsCopper: 401
Pans made from materials with a lower thermal 
conductivity take longer to heat, because the 
thermal energy applied from the burner takes 
longer to transfer up and outward. In physics-
speak, this is called slow thermal response time . In 
cooking, pans with low thermal conductivity (cast 
iron, stainless steel) are “sluggish” in response 
to changes in heat. Pop them on the burner, and 
nothing seems to happen for a while. Likewise, 
if you get them too hot and pull them off the 
burner, food in them will continue to cook for a 
while. (If you do find yourself with a pan full of 
ingredients that are starting to burn, dump the 
food into a bowl to halt this. Even off the burner, 
a pan will continue burning its contents.)Given two pans of identical diameter, one cast 
iron and one aluminum, the  aluminum pan will 
conduct the heat throughout the pan faster. 
Here’s a picture of this, using thermal fax paper 
(hey, not all of us can afford a thermal imaging 
camera!). Since thermal fax paper turns dark 
where heated, dark = hot and white = cold.
Cast iron pan on a gas burner = slower heat transfer.
Aluminum pan on a gas burner = faster heat transfer.
If you’re keen to try this yourself, grab 
some flour, sprinkle a thin dusting of it 
across the pan’s surface, and heat your 
pan on the burner for 30–60 seconds, 
watching where the flour turns brown first.
Notice that the gas burner has a wide radius and 
the gas jets are directed outward. Result? The center  
of the pan actually ends up being colder. The cast 
iron pan shows this well because the heat does not 
conduct through the material as quickly as it does 
with the aluminum pan, leading to a cold spot.
Specific heat is important, too. Specific heat  is 
the thermal energy (measured in joules ) needed 
to change a unit mass of material by a unit of 
temperature, and it differs between materials. The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 47That is, it’ll take a different amount of energy to 
raise a kilogram of cast iron 1°C versus a kilogram 
of aluminum, because of how the materials are 
structured at the atomic level. How do common 
metals in pans compare in terms of specific heat?
Cast iron has a lower specific heat than aluminum. 
It takes roughly twice as much energy (897 J/
kg*K versus 450 J/kg*K) to heat the same amount 
of aluminum up to the same temperature, and 
because energy doesn’t just disappear (first law 
of thermodynamics), this means that a kilogram 
of aluminum will actually give off more heat than 
a kilogram of cast iron as it cools (e.g., when you 
drop that big steak onto the pan’s surface).
It’s not just the thermal conductivity or specific 
heat of the metal that matters, though; the mass 
of the pan is critical. I always sear my steak in 
my cast iron pan. It weighs 7.7 lbs / 3.5 kg, as 
opposed to 3.3 lbs / 1.5 kg in the case of my 
aluminum pan, so it has more heat energy to give 
off. When searing, pick a pan that has the highest 
value of specific heat * mass , so that once it’s hot, 
it won’t drop in temperature as much when you 
add the food.
There are a few other factors you should consider 
when picking a pan. Poorly seasoned cast iron and 
non-anodized aluminum pans react with acids, so pans made of those materials shouldn’t be used 
for simmering tomatoes or other acidic items. 
Nonstick pans shouldn’t be heated above 500°F 
/ 260°C. And then there are cases where the pan 
isn’t the primary source of heat for cooking: when 
you’re boiling or steaming something, the water 
provides the heat transfer, so the material used in 
making the pan isn’t important. Likewise, if you’re 
using an ultra-high-BTU burner (like the 60,000 
BTU burners used in wok cooking), the pan isn’t a 
heat sink so heat capacity isn’t important.
What’s the deal with cladded  metals? You know, 
pans with copper or aluminum cores, encased in 
stainless steel or some other metal? ( Clad means 
to encase with a covering.) These types of pans 
are a solution to two goals: avoiding hot spots by 
evening out heat quickly (by using aluminum or 
copper), and using a nonreactive surface (typically 
stainless steel, although nonstick coatings also 
work) so that the food doesn’t chemically react 
with the pan.
Finally, if you’re buying a pan and can’t decide 
between two otherwise identical choices, go for 
the one that has oven-safe handles. Avoid wood, 
and make sure the handles aren’t so big that they 
prevent you from popping the pan in the oven.
Copper: 385
Cast Iron: 450
Stainless Steel: 500
Speci/f_ic Heat (J/kg*K)
(heat energy required to raise
1 kg of material by 1 kelvin)(This is why it sucks to spill
molten sucrose on your skin.)
(Ditto for steam)Aluminum: 897
Air: 1012Molten Sugar (Sucrose): 1244
Steam: 2080
400 600 800 1000 1200 2000
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 48Kitchen Equipment Essentials 
If you were to ask me for a shopping list for a brand new kitchen, I’d tell you to snag one of 
each type of knife and pan I mentioned earlier, a few cutting boards, and then the following 
list of “everything else. ” 
The “obvious” parts of “everything else” need merely a mention: a few wooden spoons for 
stirring, a whisk, bar towels, a kitchen timer, heat-safe metal measuring cups, a microwave-
safe glass measuring cup for liquids, and measuring spoons. Then there are items where 
short comments may be useful to the culinarily uninitiated: 
Metal and glass mixing bowls  are easy to clean, cheap at commercial kitchen stores, and 
safe at low temperatures in the oven (for keeping cooked foods warm). Don’t use plastic 
ones; they’re far less versatile.
A silicone stirring spatula  is perfect  for scrambling eggs in a pan, folding egg whites into 
batters, and scraping down the edge of a bowl of cake batter. Silicone is a great material for 
cooking implements: it’s heat-stable up to 500°F / 260°C.
Tongs  should be thought of as heatproof extensions of your fingers: useful for flipping 
French toast, turning chicken on the grill, and fetching ramekins out of the oven. I 
recommend spring-loaded tongs with scalloped-edge, heatproof silicone tips.
Kitchen shears  are heavy-duty scissors useful for cutting through bones (see page 218) 
and trimming leafy greens (including as garnishes, such as snipping chives directly above a 
bowl of soup).
Garlic presses are great for more than garlic, if you get a heavy-duty one made of stainless 
steel. To use one with garlic, pop in an unpeeled  clove, press, and then pull out the just-
pressed peel and wash the press right away—5 seconds of work for fresh garlicky goodness. 
For ginger, slice off a thin piece, squeeze, and likewise, rinse the press immediately.
Immersion blenders,  also called stick blenders , have a blade mounted onto a handle and 
are immersed into a container that holds whatever you want to blend, be it a smoothie, 
soup, or sauce. Quick to use, even quicker to wash.
Mixers shouldn’t be expensive: the cheapest hand-held mixer will work just fine; only 
splurge on a stand mixer if you’re baking a lot.
“Cream the butter and sugar” is a common step in recipes. Plenty is written about the microscopic air 
bubbles that the sugar crystals drag through the butter when they’re creamed. When you see a recipe call for creaming butter and sugar, use room-temperature butter—it needs to be plastic enough to hold on to the air bubbles yet soft enough to be workable—and use an electric mixer to thoroughly combine the ingredients until you have a light, creamy texture.
The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 49And finally, three items that are so worthwhile that I’m going to expand on their 
virtues:
A digital kitchen scale is a must-have item. Dry ingredients compress easily, 
so the amount of flour in “1 cup” will vary by a surprising amount. Digital scales 
solve this problem. Weighing ingredients also allows you to measure ingredients 
quickly. Look for a scale that has a flat surface on which you can place a bowl or 
dish and that’s capable of measuring up to at least 5 lbs (2.2 kg) in 0.05 ounce or 
one-gram increments.
Digital probe thermometers are awesome. Get one with a cable so that you can 
stick the probe into the food you’re cooking and set the controller to beep when 
it reaches the desired temperature. While timers are handy, time is just a proxy for 
temperature. Recipes that say “bake chicken for 20 minutes” assume it takes 20 
minutes for the internal temperature of the chicken to reach 160°F / 71°C. Using a 
probe thermometer prevents overcooking: stick the probe in the chicken, set the 
alarm to beep at 150°F / 65°C, and when the alarm goes off, pull the chicken out 
of the oven. (Set the alarm a few degrees below the target temperature to allow 
for “carryover” heat to raise the temperature up the remaining few degrees.) 
An electric pressure cooker with rice and slow-cook modes  is another  great 
tool. Some chemical processes in cooking require a long period of time at a 
relatively specific temperature. With pressure, you can cut six hours of cooking 
down to an hour. Electric pressure cookers are like automatic cars: you don’t get 
the same control as with an old-fashioned stovetop one, but you also don’t have 
to learn to press the clutch in or shift gears. Manual pressure cookers do have the 
advantage of slightly higher pressure and potentially faster heat-up times, plus 
no electronics to break. Still, if you’re new to them, I’d go electric, at least at first: 
they can safely be left on unattended without the worry of your kitchen burning 
down. This handy appliance makes an entire class of dishes (braised short ribs, 
duck confit, beef stew) trivially easy. Get a unit that also has rice and slow-cook 
modes (not everything is better “under pressure”); some units have settings for 
making yogurt and other temperature ranges too.
Do you need to weigh your 
flour? Yes! I asked 10 friends 
to measure out, then weigh, 1 
cup of flour. The lightest weight 
reported was 124 grams; the 
heaviest, 163g. That’s a 31% 
difference!
Poke a probe thermometer 
into a quiche or pie to tell 
when the internal temperature 
indicates it is done—around 
150°F / 65°C is hot enough 
to just set the egg custard 
without making a quiche dry.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 50How Many Milliliters Are in a Cup?  
Depends on whom you ask. The ancient Romans 
had their modius  for measuring liquids, without 
any standardization, so historically speaking 
there is no single answer. Shockingly, that’s still 
true. Even today, we still haven’t reached a global 
consensus.
The standard US cup—8 US fluid ounces—has a 
volume of 237 mL. But if you’re talking about a 
US “legal” cup, as used on nutrition labels, it’s 
240 mL. Live in Canada, eh? That’ll be 250 mL, 
please. Or are we British? An imperial cup is 284 
mL. (This leaves me wondering: if I order a pint of 
Guinness in Ireland, will I get more than I would 
in the US?)
Then there’s the issue of measuring dry goods 
by volume instead of weight. The United States 
Department of Agriculture defines 1 cup of flour 
as weighing 125 grams; other sources use 137 grams. And the side of the package of flour in my 
kitchen? 120 grams. Some bakers define it as 140 
grams, which is closest to the average weight I get 
when scooping flour with my 237 mL–based cup.
Differences in measurements like these are 
just one of many reasons why blindly following 
a recipe won’t work. Understand what the 
measurement is trying to control, and adjust 
accordingly. If you’re not familiar with metric—
just how long is a meter?—consider the following 
“common conversion” table, which Randall Munroe 
of xkcd ( http://www.xkcd.com ) has kindly 
provided. It’s arguably the best conversion guide 
I’ve seen to date.
P.S. Which weighs more: an ounce of gold or an 
ounce of feathers? Hint: gold is weighed in troy 
ounces…USED BY PERMISSION OF RANDALL MUNROE, XKCD.COM
The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 51Adam Ried on Kitchen Equipment PHOTO BY ANDREW BARANOWSKI
Adam Ried writes the Boston Globe 
Magazine’s  cooking column and appears 
as the kitchen equipment specialist on 
the PBS series America’s Test Kitchen . His 
personal website is http://www.adamried.
com .
How did you end up writing for the 
Globe  and working at America’s Test 
Kitchen ?
I didn’t  intend to be involved in 
food for a living. I went to school for 
architecture. I was quick to realize that 
a) I never should have been admitted 
to architecture school, and b) even 
though I was admitted, it would be 
a grave mistake for me to pursue it, 
because to quote Barbie, “Math is hard.”
So I was doing marketing for 
architecture firms. I spent a whole lot 
of time cruising cookbooks, making 
dinners, and having friends over, but 
the lightbulb hadn’t quite gone off. I 
would come in every Monday morning 
after a weekend of cooking, and regale 
my officemates with the various things 
that I had tried, and how they worked, and what I wanted to change. One day, 
someone just looked at me and said, 
“What are you doing here? Why don’t 
you just go to cooking school?” I mean, 
talk about feeling like a doofus. It had 
never gelled for me, even though my 
sister had been to cooking school, and 
my whole family cooks. I promptly 
quit my job and went to the Boston 
University Culinary Certificate Program.
At one point, I was in the office of 
the director, and there was another 
woman waiting in the office to speak 
with her. The woman and I struck up 
a conversation. She had done the 
program a year or two before me. She 
was an editor  at Cook’s Illustrated , which 
I read, but again, doofus moment, it 
had never registered that it was just 
down the street in Brookline. I started 
talking to her about what her job was 
and how she liked it. Then and there, I 
decided that I wanted to write about 
food instead of actually cooking it.
I was on the poor woman and just kept 
after her for a freelance assignment 
here and there. That finally snowballed 
into a real job at Cook’s Illustrated . This 
was in the early 1990s. I remember 
being in school thinking, “Oh, God, 
I don’t want to work on the line in a 
restaurant. That’s too hard. I’m too old. I 
don’t like the heat. What am I going to 
do?” It’s one of those incredibly irritating 
“right place, right time” stories that you 
never want to hear when you’re on the 
other end of it.From the perspective of cooking in 
the kitchen, what has turned out to 
matter more than you expected?
This sounds a little geeky, but the 
thing that I didn’t realize going into 
it, especially because I don’t have a 
scientific mind, was that understanding 
some of the science behind cooking is 
important. Leavening is still an uphill 
battle for me to understand. All these 
recipes rely primarily on baking powder, 
but sometimes include a little baking 
soda. Really understanding the acid 
neutralization in baking soda as an 
ingredient and what ingredients are 
acidic is not something that they really 
teach you in cooking school.
What turned out to be less 
important?
Not to shoot myself in the foot here, 
but kitchen tools. You really don’t need 
every conceivable tool to cook well.
What would you consider to be the 
few basic tools a kitchen needs?
Certainly a chef’s knife. A serrated knife 
is also really useful. A good, heavy 
aluminum core  sauté pan is important. 
You can do a million different things 
in it: sauté obviously, braise, shallow 
fry, roast, bake… A good strainer, 
measuring cups, and spoons are 
useful. I love bowls that have the 
measurements on them so you can 
get the volume as you are mixing. I 
have an immersion blender that I use a 
ton. I would not want to go anywhere 
without my  immersion blender. I use 
the food processor quite a bit. I have 
a standing mixer, but I could probably 
get away with a hand mixer for most of 
what I do. Those are some of the basics.
Hello, Kitchen!Cooking for Geeks 52
looking online. I have a whole bunch 
of cookbooks at home, and I also make 
liberal use of all the libraries in our area. 
So I’ll look at as many fruitcake recipes 
as I can, say 40 or 50, or whatever is 
practical given my deadline. I will make 
a little chart for myself, just a quick 
handwritten thing, of the types and 
variables in a fruitcake recipe. Then I 
overlay my own food sensibilities. For 
example, what color scheme I want, 
what ratio of batter to fruit and nuts I 
want, what shapes, and so forth.
I will do what I call “cobbling together” 
a recipe. I’ll give it a try. I convene my 
tasters and we taste it and analyze 
it. There’s no such thing as a casual, 
thoughtless meal in this house. I want 
feedback on pretty much every bite 
that everyone puts in his or her mouth. 
Then I’ll go back and make it a second 
time. If I’m really, really lucky, I can nail it 
on the second try. More often than not, 
I will make it a third time. It’s a constant 
process of critique and analysis.
Are there cases where you just get 
stuck and can’t figure out why it’s 
not working?
I’m really lucky to have worked in the 
food world for long enough that I know 
a lot of people, much smarter than I am, 
who I can always call with questions. 
Actually, for one of my first columns 
for the Globe , I was doing a thing on 
mangos and I wanted to do mango 
bread. I was trying to get the leavening 
right. There was some molasses in 
there, and some puréed mangos, and this question of baking powder and 
baking soda came up. I ended up 
calling a million different bakers to 
help me understand the role of the 
baking powder and how it affected the 
browning.
I’ve been known to scrap recipes if they 
don’t work the way I want them to after 
the third or fourth try, or if it doesn’t 
taste as good as I want it to. But I don’t 
remember being so stuck in a problem 
that I wasn’t able to work it out without 
the help of many smart people.
Has there ever been a case where 
you’ve published a recipe, and in 
hindsight, said “oops, ” or where the 
reaction was unexpected?
Oh, God, yes. It’s really difficult to 
please all of the people all of the time. I 
remember publishing one recipe early 
on and when I went back and looked 
at it a couple of years later, I thought, 
“What the hell was I thinking? That is 
just as convoluted as can be.”
Have any of your recipes caught 
you off guard by how well liked 
they were?
There was a lemony quinoa pilaf and 
asparagus with shrimp scampi recipe 
that I did. I had discussed quinoa off 
and on with my editor for a while, 
because I really like it. Now it’s in pretty 
much any supermarket, but at the point 
I was writing this recipe it was new 
to me. People loved it. I got so much 
positive response from readers on that 
one.What’s your overall approach when 
you look at a piece of kitchen gear?
I do my best to dump all 
preconceptions. Because I have had 
years of experience in the area and 
exposure to the various tools and talked 
to various experts, I automatically know 
what I’m looking for. But I have to try 
and let go of that stuff and do the test 
as objectively as possible, because I 
may be surprised.
I remember testing grill pans that 
had ridges in the bottom, which are 
supposed to create the visual effect 
of real grill marks. I’m a big cast iron 
pan man. I like cast iron, and one of 
the pans in the line-up was a cast iron 
grill pan. Even doing my best to drop 
the preconceptions, I still thought, “It’s 
going to be fabulous.” In fact, it did heat 
up reasonably evenly, and it retained 
its heat. It made good grill marks. But 
I was surprised by the fact that it was 
a pain to clean because of the shape 
and placement of the ridges. Gunk 
would collect between them. I try not 
to use detergent and abrasives on cast 
iron, because I want to care for the 
seasoning. If I have really stuck-on gunk, 
I get in there with coarse salt and a stiff 
brush, and there just wasn’t enough 
room for the salt to really do its thing. 
After cleaning it twice, I swore I would 
never use it again.
What’s your process for going from 
a first version, or concept, to a final 
recipe for a Boston Globe  article?
I’ve never really shaken the cook’s 
process, so I probably research and 
test more than I have to. For instance, 
I’m currently working on fruitcake for 
a Christmas holiday column. I start by The Basics of Kitchen Equipment 53Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with Shrimp Scampi
 ¼ cup (60 mL) olive oil
 3 tablespoons (45g) butter
 1 medium (100g) onion, finely chopped
 1½ cups (280g) quinoa, rinsed
  Salt and black pepper
 ½ pound (225g) asparagus, ends snapped off 
and cut into 1.5” / 4 cm lengths
 1½ teaspoons (2g) lemon zest (about 1 
lemon’s worth)
 ¼ cup (60 mL) lemon juice (about 1 lemon’s 
worth)
 2 pounds (900g) large shrimp, peeled, 
deveined (if desired), rinsed, and dried
 4 cloves (12g) garlic, minced
 ½ cup (120 mL) dry white wine
  Cayenne pepper
 ¼ cup (15g) minced fresh parsley
Adjust the oven rack to the center position, 
place an ovenproof serving dish on the rack, 
and heat the oven to 200°F / 95°C. In a large 
nonstick sauté pan set over medium heat, heat 
2 tablespoons (30 mL) of oil and 1 tablespoon 
(15g) of butter. Add the onion and cook until 
soft, about 5 minutes. Add the quinoa and cook, 
stirring constantly, until it smells toasty, about 
4 minutes. Add 2¾ cups (650 mL) of water and 1 
teaspoon (6g) of salt, increase the heat to high, 
and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover, 
and simmer until the quinoa is just tender, about 
12 minutes. Off heat, sprinkle the asparagus 
over the quinoa, replace the cover, and set the 
pan aside until the quinoa has absorbed all of 
the liquid and the asparagus is tender, about 12 
minutes. Add the lemon zest and juice, season 
with black pepper and additional salt, if desired, 
and stir. Transfer the quinoa to the warmed serving dish, spread it out to make a bed, and 
place it in the oven to keep warm.
Wipe out the sauté pan with a paper towel, add 
1 tablespoon (15 mL) of oil, and set it over high 
heat. When the oil just begins to smoke, add half 
of the shrimp and cook them, without moving 
them, until they begin to turn opaque, about a 
minute. Quickly turn the shrimp and cook 
them until they’re fully opaque, about 45 
seconds longer, then transfer them to a 
bowl. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
(15 mL) of oil to the pan, and repeat 
the process to cook the remaining 
shrimp. Add the remaining 2 
tablespoons (30g) of butter 
to the pan and place it over 
medium-low heat. When 
the butter has melted, 
add the garlic and 
cook, stirring 
constantly, until 
fragrant, about 45 seconds. 
Add the wine and a pinch of 
cayenne and stir to blend. 
Return the shrimp and 
any accumulated 
juices to the pan, 
add the parsley, 
season with 
salt to taste, 
and stir to 
combine. 
Remove the 
serving dish from the 
oven, pour the shrimp and 
its juices over the bed of 
quinoa, and serve at once.RECIPE USED BY PERMISSION OF ADAM RIED; ORIGINALLY RAN IN THE MAY 18, 2008, ISSUE OF THE BOSTON GLOBE MAGAZINE
Hello, Kitchen!Chapter Contents
Taste + Smell = Flavor  .......................... 56
Taste, the Gustatory Sense  ................... 58
Salty  ................................... 64
Sweet  .................................. 68
Sour  ................................... 72
Bitter  .................................. 74
Savory, a.k.a. Umami  .................. 76
Spicy/Hot, Cooling, and Other Taste 
Sensations  .......................... 79Inspiration by Taste Combinations  ........ 84
Smell, the Olfactory Sense  .................... 89
Describing Smells  ..................... 93
What Is Flavor?  .................................... 98
Inspiration by Exploration  .................. 103
Inspiration by Seasonality  .................. 112
Computational Flavor Inspiration  ........ 125
Interviews
Linda Bartoshuk on 
Taste and Pleasure,  86
Brian Wansink on 
Expectations, Flavor, 
and Eating,  101
Lydia Walshin 
on Unfamiliar 
Ingredients,  110
Tim Wiechmann and 
Linda Anctil on 
Seasonal Inspiration ,  121
Gail Vance Civille on 
Learning Flavors,  132Recipes
Greek-Style Marinade,  62
Japanese-Style Brine,  62
Roasted Poblano and 
Cheddar Cheese Stuffed 
Pork Chops,  66
Pan-Seared Mussels with 
Butter and Shallots,  67
Simple Ginger Syrup,  70
How to Cook an Artichoke,  70
Homemade Yogurt,  73
Frisée Salad with Poached 
Eggs and Lardons,  75
Broiled Belgian Endive,  75
Peppermint Chocolate Mints,  81
Summer Watermelon and 
Feta Cheese Salad,  85
Mock Apple Pie,  96
Béchamel Sauce, a.k.a. 
White Sauce,  105
Mac ’n’ Cheese,  105Velouté Sauce,  106
Minestrone Soup,  106
Sauce Tomate,  107
Penne alla Vodka,  107
Hollandaise Sauce,  108
Espagnole Sauce, a.k.a. 
Brown Sauce,  109
Fresh Basil, Tomato, and 
Mozzarella Salad,  114
Fennel, Portobello 
Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
Springtime Lettuce Soup,  116
Winter White Bean and 
Garlic Soup,  116
Summertime Gazpacho 
Soup,  117
Fall Butternut Squash 
Soup,  118
Fish Tacos with Pickle and 
Strawberry Relish,  129Labs
You Say Potato, I Say 
Apple,  57
Genetic Taste Differences,  82
How Well Do You Know 
Your Flavors? ,  1302
YOU OPEN YOUR FRIDGE AND SEE PICKLES, STRAWBERRIES, AND TORTILLAS. 
What do you do? You might answer: create a pickle/strawberry burrito. Or if you’re less 
adventurous, you might say: order pizza. But somewhere between making a gross-
sounding burrito and ordering takeout is another option: figuring out the answer to one of 
life’s deeper questions: how do I know what goes together?
The answer is, as with so many things, “It depends. ” It depends on your past experiences 
and what you’ve learned to like. It depends on your cravings as you stand there in front of 
the fridge pondering pickles, strawberries, and how your life has reached the point where 
your fridge holds only three ingredients. And it depends on how the ingredients will taste 
together based on how your tongue and nose sense the tastes and smells of the foods 
you’re eating.
The best inspiration for blissful deliciousness  is to pick good culinary inputs: ingredients 
that carry good flavor, generate pleasing aromas, and make your mouth water. True, you 
also need good technique once the ingredients land in the frying pan, but no cook can 
save truly bad ingredients. By understanding how flavor is created 
and detected, you’ll be better able to answer that deeper question of 
culinary combinations and inspiration.Taste, Smell, and Flavor
   55
Cooking for Geeks 56Taste + Smell = Flavor
Experienced cooks can imagine the flavor a combination of ingredients will have without 
picking up a fork. For them, predicting what combinations will work well comes from 
remembering what worked in the past and noticing patterns in recipes. But what is flavor? And 
how can you learn to better predict what will work well together?
Flavor is based on the combination of taste , the gustatory sensations from your tongue, and 
smell , the sense of olfaction from olfactory receptors in your nose. Our brains also factor in a little 
bit of other data picked up by our mouths, such as texture and oral irritation from chemicals 
(think hot peppers or peppermint). There are also some minor nuances (some would say 
nuisances) from cues like color that can sway what we think we’re tasting, but those aspects 
aren’t as much about flavor as they are perception.
All of the senses that create the sensation of flavor are based on chemistry. Your tongue detects 
compounds that trigger sensory cells in a taste bud, usually with the aid of saliva. Your nose 
detects volatile compounds —chemicals that easily evaporate from their source—as they’re 
carried by air passing through the nasal cavity. The next time you chomp down on a strawberry, 
keep in mind that the flavor you sense is based on some of the strawberry’s compounds 
triggering taste receptors in your taste buds and other compounds evaporating and triggering 
olfactory neurons in your nose.
Our brains trick us into thinking that the sensation of flavor is a single input, but in reality our 
“sense of taste” is created by our brains. We usually use the word “taste” when we mean flavor, 
but from a technical perspective, a good strawberry only tastes sweet. That taste combines with 
a fruity, complex smell to create the flavor of a strawberry. For us to drill down into the science of 
taste and smell, it’s an important clarification: taste is what your tongue does, smell is what your 
nose does, and flavor is the combined sensation your brain creates from fusing the signals from 
multiple senses. We’ll spend the rest of this chapter diving into the specifics of taste, smell, and 
flavor, but a few key guidelines for creating amazing meals are worth pointing out here:
• Start with good ingredients.  No amount of culinary wizardry can create all of the 
taste and smell molecules missing in low-quality ingredients.
• Use proper technique.  Your tongue and nose can’t detect compounds that are bound 
up inside food. Slicing through produce, combining ingredients, and heating foods 
free compounds such that you can detect them and also transform them into other 
compounds, changing what’s available for you to sense.
• Season with all the taste modifiers, not just salt.  Adding ingredients like salt, sugar, 
and lemon juice changes the detection thresholds of volatile compounds and alters 
unpleasant compounds. Adding a pinch of salt can “add” flavors by lowering the 
threshold necessary for you to detect them while also masking bitter flavors; adding 
lemon juice can neutralize off-smelling amino compounds.Taste + Smell = Flavor 57
Even though they’re tightly coupled, taste and 
smell are different senses. Try these two quick 
experiments with some friends to understand a 
few differences.
First, grab these supplies:
For Test 1: Differences between taste and smell
• Apple
• White or yellow 
onion
• Potato (optional)• Turnip (optional)
• Knife and cutting 
board to cut foods
• Small bowl with 
water to soak foods
For Test 2: Understanding oral irritation
• Cinnamon
• Cayenne pepper 
(powdered)• 2 spoons or 2 small 
sample cups to 
hold a pinch of 
each spice
Here’s what to do:
Test 1: Differences between taste and smell
1. Cut samples of the apple, onion, potato 
(optional), and turnip (optional) into thin 
strips, like small French fries, making sure 
to trim off any skins. Try to create roughly 
identical-looking samples, making enough of 
each so that every person can try a few.
2. Soak the samples in a small bowl of water 
for a minute or two. This will rinse off some 
of their juices, which is especially crucial for 
the onion. (These two steps can be done in 
advance if you’re preparing for a group.)
3. Have everyone take a sample from a bowl, 
and while pinching your noses, bite down on the sample. (Pinching your nose prevents the 
air carrying the odorants from circulating up 
into the nasal cavity.) Make a note of what 
you think you’re eating—what tastes do you 
notice? Then, let go of your nose and note the 
difference. Repeat several times, until you’ve 
experienced all of the foods.
For larger groups, try using multiple flavors of 
jellybean candies instead.
Test 2: Understanding oral irritation 
1. Put a small pinch or dash of cinnamon on one 
spoon or in a sample cup and a small pinch or 
dash of cayenne pepper (not too much!) on a 
second spoon or in a sample cup.
2. Pinch your nose so that no air is flowing 
in or out; this will prevent your olfactory 
receptors from picking up any odors. Taste the 
cinnamon, keeping your nose plugged. What 
do you notice about the way it tastes and 
smells? Let go of your nose and breathe in and 
out—what do you notice?
3. Repeat with the cayenne pepper, pinching your 
nose, tasting, and then letting go and smelling; 
write down what you notice at each stage.
Investigation time!
What did you notice about the way foods “tasted” 
when you pinched your nose? Both onion and 
cayenne pepper have strong flavors; what did 
you notice about the difference in the way you 
experienced them? Why do you think we can’t 
“taste” much when we have a cold?Lab: You Say Potato, I Say Apple
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 58Taste, the Gustatory Sense
Our sense of taste is an amazing accomplishment of biology and evolution, and for good 
reason: it steers us toward nutritious, energy-rich foods (sweet, savory) and biologically 
necessary building blocks (salty), and away from potentially harmful foods (sour, bitter).
The four foundational tastes of Western cuisine—salty, sweet, sour, and bitter—were first 
described 2,400 years ago by the Greek philosopher Leucippus (or more likely one of his 
grad students, Democritus). The ancient Chinese included a fifth taste, pungency/hot, 
and indeed spicy foods as well as cooling ingredients are detected in gustation. Another 
taste, savory, was described and popularized about a hundred years ago by a Japanese 
researcher, who identified a “meaty” taste triggered by amino acids, which he named 
umami . More recent research hints at additional taste receptors for rancid fatty acids 
(“oleogustus”), some metals, calcium, and possibly even water, although these are unlikely 
to ever be considered tastes in a culinary sense.
By itself, taste is the lesser part of flavor, accounting for somewhere around 20% of the sensation 
of flavor, with the other 80% or so coming from smell. As the more primitive part, though, taste 
is easier to understand, so we’ll start with it. The human tongue contains a few thousand taste 
buds, each of which is a group of 50 to 100 receptor 
cells. (The little dots you see on your tongue contain 
some of the taste buds, but taste buds exist elsewhere, 
too—even on the palate , the roof of the mouth.) Each of 
these cells can interact with various types of chemicals, 
which are carried to them by our saliva as we chew food. 
It’s these receptor cells that originate the signals for 
various tastes. Once activated, the receptor cells 
transmit the signals to our brains, which assemble all 
the signals into a relative strength for the taste.
The magic of taste starts with receptor cells. The 
standard metaphor for how they work is that of a lock and  key. Tastants —chemical 
compounds that trigger a taste, such as sucrose in table sugar or sodium in table salt—act 
as keys, fitting into “locks” on our receptor cells. Different families of compounds fit into 
different locks, so a particular taste perception can be thought of as a single key matching 
a single lock. When you taste sugar, your brain registers “sweet” based on which taste 
receptor cells sugar can bind to and the subsequent neurological pathways between those 
cells and your brain.
Each sense of taste comes from a different type of taste receptor cell, but multiple 
receptors can lead to the same taste sensation. It’s estimated that there are around 40 
different types of receptors on the tongue, with multiple ones for the same taste. Salt, at 
least in mice, is detected by two different receptors, one for low concentrations of sodium The receptors for sweet, bitter, and umami 
compounds are known to also exist elsewhere in the human body. Sweet receptors in the gut, for example, respond to sugar and send positive signals to the brain; there’s a reason eating and swallowing good food is so satisfying! Other animals take this further and rely on receptors for tasting located in other parts of their bodies. Fish taste using their lips; flies can taste what they walk on through their feet.
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 59and a second that activates with higher concentrations. Sweet tastes can also be 
triggered by two different receptors, called T1R2 and T1R3. Differences in compounds will 
also determine how quickly they fit into the “lock” of the receptor and how long they 
activate it, leading to different timing sensations between tastants. This lock-and-key 
metaphor isn’t perfect, though—the strength of one taste sensation can be moderated 
when another one is detected.
How strongly we register a taste is based on how much of a compound is present in a food 
we’re eating and how sensitive we are to it. Just as our other senses have thresholds for 
sensing (e.g., few of us can hear anything at 2 dB, while almost all 
of us can hear something louder than 15 dB), taste and smell have 
minimum absolute thresholds. Take a look at this chart showing 
reported values for sensitivity thresholds of common taste 
reference compounds, expressed in parts per million (i.e., for us to 
taste these compounds, they have to be present at or above these 
concentrations, called suprathreshold ; take these numbers with a 
grain of salt, though, as they’ll change based on many factors).
Our sensitivity to different common compounds reveals a lot about their importance. 
A quick glance shows that we’re much more sensitive to sour, bitter, and irritating 
compounds. These generally denote unsafe food, like spoiled foods that have turned sour, 
or poisonous items, which generally register as sour or bitter. Evolutionarily speaking, this is 
no surprise; any organism that avoids chowing down on something dangerous has a better 
chance of passing along its genes!
You’ll notice capsaicin in the list. Capsaicin is the compound that makes hot peppers 
hot, and it’s an example of chemesthesis —the sensation of chemicals. Our taste buds, 
like much of our skin, can detect irritation brought on by chemicals such as ethyl alcohol 
and capsaicin. Other chemicals, like menthol, activate cooling sensations. These types of 
compounds tickle other aspects of our taste buds and influence flavor, and are why it’s 
incorrect to think of the tongue as only sensing four or five tastes. Different cultures place 
different emphasis on these sensations in their culinary traditions—many Indian dishes and 
southeast Asian cuisines put an emphasis on pungent, hot tastes, while the Japanese 
base much of their cuisine around savory/umami tastes. 
Regardless of which types of cuisine you enjoy, the approach to cooking them is the 
same: try to balance the various tastes to a level that’s desirable (e.g., not too salty, 
not too sweet). There are a number of practical challenges in creating balanced 
tastes, and understanding them can elevate your cooking game significantly. 
How you prefer tastes to be balanced depends in large part on how your brain 
is wired and trained to respond to basic tastes. Here are a number of different 
aspects of taste to be aware of when cooking, both for yourself and for others.Sweet Sucrose 5,000 ppm
Salty Sodium chloride 2,000 ppm
Savory Glutamate 200 ppm
Sour Citric acid 40 ppm
Bitter Quinine 2 ppm
Hot Capsaicin 0.3 ppm
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 60Remember to season!  Knowing all the science of taste won’t make a dish taste any better 
if you don’t pay attention to your senses. Learn to really  taste things. See if you can notice 
changes in tastes and smells as food finishes cooking, and take time to taste a dish and 
ask yourself what would make it better. Adjusting the seasonings at the end may seem 
obvious, but it’s a common step people forget. A pinch of salt or squirt of lemon juice can 
do wonders to balance tastes.
Y our cultural upbringing will affect where you find balance in tastes.  What one culture 
finds ideally balanced won’t necessarily be the same for another culture. Americans 
generally prefer foods to taste sweeter than Europeans. Savory is a key taste in Japanese 
cuisine but has historically been given less formal consideration in the European tradition 
(although this is starting to change). Flavor preferences begin to develop before birth —
mothers eating foods like garlic during pregnancy will impact the child’s food preferences, 
and fetal facial reactions can be seen in the third trimester in response to pleasurable and 
adverse-tasting foods. This is all to say that, when cooking for others, what you find just 
right might be different than someone else’s idea of perfection, no matter if it’s one shared 
meal or a lifetime of shared meals with a partner.
What you just ate can influence what you taste next. When you’re serving different dishes, 
the tastes from one dish can linger and impact the experience of others—an effect called 
taste adaptation . Most of our senses adapt to a signal after a while, so that we’re able to pick 
up on other changes. A sweetened yogurt, for example, will become less sweet as you 
continue eating it, and that adaptation can carry over to the 
next thing you taste. The next time you brush your teeth, try 
sipping some orange juice afterward and notice how much 
more  bitter it is. (Sodium lauryl sulfate in toothpaste sticks 
around for a little while, knocking out your ability to sense 
sweet.) Carbonated beverages like effervescent mineral water 
are traditional  palate cleansers, although studies suggest 
crackers are more effective. That bread basket on the table isn’t 
just about filling you up: eating bread also clears out tastes 
when you’re switching between foods!
Environmental factors affect how you taste things. Drier conditions change the amount 
of saliva in the mouth, resulting in a decrease of taste sensitivity. Airline food suffers for this 
reason; salty tomato juice and pretzels are commonly served at altitude, as they have strong 
tastes. Our sense of taste changes with the weather!
Temperature also impacts taste sensation: foods served warmer (by some accounts, above 
86°F / 30°C) will be detected as stronger by the taste buds than colder dishes, due to the 
heat sensitivity of some of the taste receptor cells. There’s a fun quirk of biology here: foods Taste adaptation occurs when your 
perception of taste is altered by prior sensations, sort of like a visual afterimage, while taste perversion happens when a compound changes how your sense of taste registers things. See page 71 for more on taste perversion. 
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 61served below body temperature don’t register as warm, so a dish served slightly below 
body temperature won’t seem warm but will still convey stronger tastes. Colder foods, on 
the other hand, result in tastes with lower perceived strength, especially for sugars. There’s 
a reason why warm soda is gross: it tastes sweeter (cloyingly so) than when it’s cold. When 
you’re in the kitchen, keep the impact of temperature on your sense of taste in mind when 
making dishes that will be served cold. You’ll find the frozen versions of things like ice 
cream and sorbet to be weaker-tasting and -smelling than their warmer, liquid versions, so 
adjust the mixtures accordingly.
Genetic differences can change how you taste things.  What you and I taste isn’t 
necessarily the same. The most researched area of genetic taste differences uses the 
bitter-tasting compounds propylthiouracil (PROP) and phenylthiocarbamide (PTC) for 
understanding how we interact with foods. Some of us can’t taste these compounds—
myself included—while others taste them as bitter. It’s not a binary “can or can’t” taste but 
appears to be correlated with two genes, along with a few other genetic aspects. Based on 
one’s genetic makeup, the bitter sensation can be unbearably revolting. I had one friend 
almost reflexively punch me upon tasting a PTC test paper—clearly an extraordinary taster. 
(See page 82 to learn how to test taste differences; for an interview with Linda Bartoshuk, 
who has extensively researched this area, see page 86.)
Being able to taste PROP or PTC isn’t necessarily good or bad; it’s just different. Those who 
taste them will experience some foods—especially dark-green leafy vegetables such as 
kale, cabbage, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts—as more bitter because of phenylthiourea-
like compounds that their tongues can sense. PROP/PTC tasters generally also have a 
higher number of taste buds on their tongues, resulting in a larger number of cells that can 
experience oral irritation. This quirk causes them to taste astringent, acidic, and spicy foods 
as stronger as well. Caffeine tastes more bitter to PROP/PTC tasters, which explains why 
researchers find these tasters are more likely to add milk or sugar to coffee and tea, which 
cancels out some of the bitterness.
As you can see, a small difference in the ability to taste one family of bitter compounds can 
cascade through a bunch of other tastes, changing the balance of tastes that someone 
may want. There’s some evidence for genetic differences in the ability to taste savory 
compounds like glutamate; who knows what other differences exist.
Physiological issues can also impact taste capabilities—notably, age, stress, and 
disease. As we age,  our taste preferences shift. A kid’s sweet tooth comes from a biological 
drive for high-calorie foods; older seniors also have shifts in smell capabilities and become 
less sensitive to salt and some mildly bitter tastes. (It appears that tastants like sodium and 
sucrose have slight odors associated with them, so there’s some impact on taste thresholds 
from decreased smell.) For the elderly, loss of taste sensations can be a real issue—it’s 
hard to eat bland food. Stress also impacts taste by leading to an increase in the hormone 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 62cortisol, which, among other things, dampens the stimuli strength of taste buds. And 
finally, there are a broad range of diseases that can affect our sense of taste, most of which 
are rarely diagnosed in the nonelderly population (how would you know you have specific 
aguesia —taste blindness—when you can’t tell what somebody else experiences?). While 
understanding the physiological issues won’t change what someone tastes, it can explain 
the behavior you see in the way people around you eat.
From this short list of the ways that taste is impacted, you can see that taste is not as simple 
as the four basic sensations of salty, sweet, sour, and bitter described by the ancient Greeks. 
We’ll examine the various aspects of taste, along with recipes and experiments, over the 
first part of this chapter.  
The erroneous idea that primary tastes come from different parts of the tongue 
started with a mistranslated paper. All regions of the top surface of the human 
tongue can detect primary tastes. There are small differences in sensitivity per 
region, which is why different parts of the tongue sense different tastes more 
acutely. The back of the tongue is more sensitive to bitter than the front, while the 
front is more sensitive to sweet than the back, so a weakly bittersweet liquid will 
seemingly change taste on different parts of the tongue.
Greek-Style Marinade
Marinades, at least by common definition, are 
acidic, sour liquids in which foods are soaked 
before being cooked. It’s a bit of a misnomer, 
though—the word marinade  is derived from the 
Spanish marinar , meaning “to pickle in brine.” 
Most marinades flavor only the surface of the 
meat, so choose thin cuts for marinating.
In a bowl, mix:
 1/2 cup (120g) yogurt
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) lemon juice (about 
a lemon’s worth)
 2 teaspoons (4g) oregano
 1 teaspoon (6g) salt
  Zest of 1 lemon, minced finelyJapanese-Style Brine
Brines  are always based on salt—in this case soy 
sauce, which is about 5–6% salt. Salt breaks down 
parts of the muscle tissue, leading to tenderer 
cooked meats. Adding other taste modifiers, like 
honey, balances out the saltiness.
In a bowl, mix:
 1/2 cup (120 mL) soy sauce
 4 tablespoons (24g) minced ginger
 6 tablespoons (40g) minced scallions (also 
known as green onions), about 4 stalks
 4 tablespoons (60 mL) honeyTaste, the Gustatory Sense 63Tasty Ingredients by Culture
Different cultures use different ingredients for 
modifying the basic tastes in cooking. Try using 
some of these common ingredients for adjusting 
tastes the next time you’re cooking. (For a list of 
ingredients by culture that bring smells and aromas, 
see page 111.)Note that these are broad suggestions; don’t take this 
list as an anthology of regional cuisine. North India 
is more arid and cooler than South India, and uses 
entirely different techniques and ingredients. Many of 
these ingredients also bring smells, which is why each 
culture’s foods have certain flavor principles.
Bitter Salty Sour Sweet Umami Hot
Caribbean Bitter melon Salt cod (ackee 
and saltfish)Lime Molasses; brown 
sugarTomato Hot peppers
Chinese Chinese broccoli; 
bitter melonSoy sauce; oyster 
sauceRice vinegar; 
plum sauce 
(sweet and sour)Plum sauce 
(sweet and sour); 
hoisin sauceDried 
mushrooms; 
oyster sauceMustard; 
Szechuan 
peppers; ginger 
root
French Frisée; radish; 
endiveOlives; capers Red wine vinegar; 
lemon juiceSugar Tomato; 
mushroomsDijon mustard; 
black, white, 
and green 
peppercorns
Greek Dandelion 
greens; broccoli 
rabeFeta cheese Lemon Honey Tomato Black pepper; 
garlic
Indian Asafetida; 
fenugreek; bitter 
melonKala namak (black 
salt, which is NaCl 
and Na2S)Lemon; lime; 
amchur (ground 
dried green 
mangos); 
tamarindSugar; jaggery 
(unrefined palm 
sugar)Tomato Black pepper; 
chilies; black 
mustard seed; 
garlic; ginger; 
cloves
Italian Broccoli rabe; 
olives; artichoke; 
radicchioCheese (Pecorino 
or Parmesan); 
capers or 
anchovies 
(commonly 
packed in salt)Balsamic vinegar; 
lemonSugar; 
caramelized 
veggies; raisins 
and dried fruitsTomato; 
Parmesan cheeseGarlic; black 
pepper; Italian 
hot long chilies; 
cherry peppers
Japanese Tea Soy sauce; miso; 
seaweedRice vinegar Mirin Mushrooms; 
miso; dashiWasabi; chiles
North 
AfricanTea Preserved lemons Preserved lemons Dates Harissa, sumbala 
(West African)Harissa
Latin 
AmericanChocolate 
(unsweetened); 
beerCheeses; olives Tamarind; lime Sugar cane Tomato Jalapeño and 
other hot 
peppers
Southeast 
AsianTangerine peel; 
pomelo (citrus 
fruit)Fish sauce; dried 
shrimp pasteTamarind; kaffir 
limesCoconut milk Fermented bean 
pasteThai chili in 
sauces and pastes
Spanish Olives Anchovies Vinegar Fruit (raisins, figs, 
quince); sugarSmoked paprika Peppers
Turkish Coffee Za’atar (mixture 
of thyme, salt, 
sesame seeds, 
and sumac)Yogurt Honey Tomato Red pepper flakes
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 64Salty
We taste  foods as salty through a relatively simple biological mechanism: sodium ions from salt 
activate salty-taste-specific receptors by way of ion channels —essentially a gated passageway 
into a cell—which then complete an electrical circuit that sends the brain the message “salty!”
Of all the primary taste sensations, our mechanism for sensing salty tastes is unique in 
its detection of a specific compound, sodium. Almost nothing else triggers the taste of 
saltiness; ion channels are very selective about what they bind with. Sodium is a biological 
necessity regulated by the kidneys and used to control blood pressure, enable cellular 
communication, balance water levels, and manage a whole lot of other things. Our lives 
depend on us eating enough of it. Given its biological 
importance, our ability to specifically taste salt and crave it 
makes sense. As with sweetness, our cravings for salty tastes 
are related to what our bodies need at any given moment.
The word salty  describes the taste, while salt defines a 
chemical compound. Table salt  refers to sodium chloride 
specifically; and unless you’re talking chemistry, this is the 
type of salt meant when the word salt is used. From a 
chemistry perspective, there are other types of salts besides 
sodium chloride. One salt, potassium chloride, does taste salty but also has a bitter taste. If 
you look at the ingredient labels for salt substitutes, you’ll see other compounds added to 
moderate that bitterness. Other salts you might know of, such as  Epsom salt (magnesium 
sulfate), also taste bitter. Salts that contain lithium instead of sodium taste salty because 
lithium ions (Li+) can permeate the salty taste cells’ ion channels. I feel sorry for the chemist 
who discovered this, though— lithium is toxic in large doses! (For culinary uses of these 
other types of salts, see page 382.) In almost all cases, salty tastes are brought about by 
sodium ions from table salt, so you can assume if you’re tasting salt, it’s because of sodium 
chloride. 
It’s the sodium ion (Na+) in sodium chloride that tastes salty; the chloride ion (Cl–) merely 
stabilizes the sodium in solid form. For the taste of salty to register, the sodium ion has to 
complete the ion channel’s circuit. This is a subtle but important point for eaters needing to 
regulate their salt intake: how salty a food tastes cannot be used to detect how much salt is 
present! Sodium ions, being extremely small, easily permeate into the foods they’re cooked 
with, and once constrained, won’t come into contact with the 
salty taste receptors. A large amount of salt added early on 
in the cooking process can be absorbed into a food’s interior, 
meaning you won’t taste it but you will still digest it, leading 
to an increased sodium intake. Be aware of this if you’re 
cooking for people on low-sodium diets!Iodized salt has the element iodine added as 
a nutritional fortification against diseases like goiter, which is why it’s no longer an issue in countries like the United States. Controlled experiments show no taste difference between iodized and noniodized salt when used in foods at normal concentrations.
Very,  very weak solutions of salt will taste 
sweet! Sodium ions appear to activate the sweet receptor, but the exact mechanism isn’t yet known.
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 65Adding salt can change the way other tastes 
register and alter the way we sense smells. 
Taste receptors aren’t perfect, one-to-one 
detectors for the various compounds. Salty 
and sour tastes can mask each other because 
sodium can slightly interfere with our sour 
taste receptors. Adding a pinch of salt to baked 
goods doesn’t necessarily make the food taste 
salty, but it will reduce sourness, which in 
turn increases the perception of sweetness! 
The addition of a small quantity of salt (not 
too much!) enhances other foods, bringing a 
“fullness” to foods that might otherwise have 
what is described as a “flat” taste. This is why so 
many sweet dishes—cookies, chocolate cake, 
even hot chocolate—call for a pinch of salt. 
How much salt is in a pinch? Enough that it 
amps up the food’s flavor, but not so much that 
it becomes a distinct flavor in itself. 
In larger quantities, salt acts as an ingredient as much as a taste enhancer. Mussels liberally 
seasoned with salt, bagels topped with coarse salt, salty lassi (an Indian yogurt drink), and 
even chocolate ice cream or brownies sprinkled with sea salt all taste inherently different 
without the salt. When using salt as a topping, use a coarse, flaky variety (look for sea salt), 
not rock/kosher salt or table salt—you’ll need less salt for the same salty sensation this way.
Tips • Avoid “hidden salt” by using only the amount needed in the early stages of cooking to  trigger 
chemical and physical changes, and then adjust salt levels for taste at the very end of cooking.
• A pinch of salt isn’t an exact measurement. Traditionally, it’s the amount of salt you can pinch between 
your thumb and index finger, but if you need to start somewhere, try using ¼ teaspoon (~1g).
• Because of genetic differences in the way people taste some bitter compounds, different eaters 
will desire different amounts of salt to mask bitterness in foods like broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and 
kale. Leave a salt shaker on the table to allow eaters to balance tastes!
• The amount of salt you prefer is in part based on your last few months of eating patterns—your 
body will learn to prefer less or more salt over time.
To make 
something taste 
saltier• Add salt (duh) or add savory-based ingredients (increasing the savory/umami sensation amplifies 
salt perception; for savory ingredient suggestions, see page 63).
If a dish is too 
salty• If it’s only slightly oversalted, increase the sweetness or sourness to mask.
• Dilute the salt by adding more ingredients to the dish. (The old trick of adding a potato to oversalted 
soup does little to decrease the sensation of saltiness but does dilute the concentration of salt.)DIY Sea Salt
Making your own salt is easy—if you live near the sea and 
don’t mind slopping some buckets of water home. Fill a few 
2-quart (2-liter) containers with pleasant-smelling seawater 
and return home. Pour the water into a large pan, straining 
it through a clean cloth or coffee filter to remove any sand 
and particulates. Boil the water down to about a fifth or 
sixth of its original volume, pour it into a shallow glass pan, 
and allow it to dry as it evaporates over a day or two. Expect 
to get about ¼ cup (65g) salt per 2-quart container.
Making salt via evaporation removes the water  instead of 
extracting the salt. This means anything else in 
the water, from subtle flavorings and trace 
minerals (good) to toxic mercury (bad), 
will be present in the salt. Using it once 
isn’t an issue, but I’d avoid a life-
long habit of using DIY sea salt.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 66Roasted Poblano and Cheddar Cheese Stuffed Pork Chops
Brining —soaking food in salty water—adds a 
delicious salty flavor to meats like pork chops, as 
this recipe shows. This dish is both tasty and easy, 
making it a great date-night meal.
In a container, mix 4 tablespoons (70g) salt  
with 4 cups (~1 liter) lukewarm water . Stir to 
dissolve salt. Place 2–4 boneless pork chops, at 
least 1” / 2.5 cm thick,  in the brine and let them 
rest for an hour. (Longer brine times will lead to 
saltier meat; if you’re ever brining for longer than 
2 hours, use cold water and keep the meats in the 
fridge.)
While the pork chops are resting in the brine, 
create a filling by mixing together in a bowl:
 ¼ cup (40g) poblano pepper, roasted and 
then diced, about 1 pepper (see notes for 
how to roast them)
 ¼ cup (40g) cheddar or Monterey Jack 
cheese, cut into small cubes
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (1g) ground black pepper
After the pork chops have brined, remove them 
from the water and pat them dry with paper 
towels. Prepare the pork chops for stuffing: using 
a small paring knife, make a small incision in the side of the pork chop, then push the blade 
into the center of the pork chop. Create a center 
cavity, sweeping the blade inside the pork chop, 
while keeping the “mouth” of the cavity—where 
you pushed the knife into the side of the meat—
as small as possible.
Stuff about a tablespoon of the filling into each 
pork chop. Rub the outside of the pork chops with 
oil and season them with a pinch of salt. (You’ll 
have leftover filling. It’s better to make too much 
than risk running out. Save the extra stuffing for 
scrambled eggs.)
Heat a cast iron pan over medium heat until it 
is hot (about 400°F / 200°C, the point at which 
water dropped on the surface sizzles and steams). 
Place the pork chops in the pan, searing each side 
until the outside is medium brown, about 5–7 
minutes per side. Check the internal temperature, 
cooking until your thermometer registers 145°F / 
62.8°C. Then remove the pork chops from the pan 
and let them rest on a cutting board for at least 3 
minutes.
To serve, slice the pork chops in half to reveal the 
center. Serve them on top of rosemary mashed 
potatoes (see page 212).
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 67Notes
• How do you roast a poblano pepper? If you 
have a gas stovetop, you can place the pepper 
directly on top of the burner, using a pair of 
tongs to rotate it as the skin burns off (expect 
the skin to char and turn black; this is what 
you’re going for). If you don’t have a gas 
stovetop, place the pepper under a broiler (gas 
or electric) set to high, rotating it as 
necessary. Once the skin is burnt on most sides 
of the pepper, remove the pepper from the heat 
and let it rest on a cutting board until it’s cool 
enough to handle. 
Using a cloth or paper 
towel, wipe off the 
burnt skin and discard 
it. Dice the pepper 
(discarding the seeds, 
ribbing, and top) and 
place it into a bowl.
• Try other fillings, such as pesto sauce or a 
mixture of sage, dried fruits (cranberries, 
cherries, apricots), and nuts (pecans, walnuts).• In the United States, cooking guidelines used 
to call for cooking pork to 165°F / 74°C to 
eliminate the risk of  trichinosis. Trichinosis has 
been eradicated from the animal population, 
however, and in 2011 the USDA’s cooking 
guidelines were lowered to 145°F for whole cuts 
of meat (let the pork rest for 3 minutes before 
carving or eating it). If you live elsewhere, 
guidelines may still say to cook to 160°F / 
71°C, based on trichinosis prevalence.
• As an experiment, try doing a brined versus 
unbrined pork chop cook-off: does brining 
change the weight loss during cooking? Using a 
gram scale, weigh a pork chop pre-brining, post-
brining, and after cooking, and compare the 
percentage weight loss to that of a “control” pork 
chop that is cooked without having been brined. 
You may also want to test how brining changes 
the flavor. If you’re cooking for others, enlist 
them as tasters. Cook both brined and unbrined 
pork chops, serve a portion of each to everyone, 
and see what preferences your tasters have.
Pan-Seared Mussels with Butter and Shallots
Mussels, sprinkled with copious amounts of sea 
salt and dipped in butter, taste amazing. Heat a 
cast iron pan until it’s screaming hot; while it’s 
heating, rinse about 1 pound (~500g) mussels , 
discarding any broken or open ones. Drop the 
mussels in the hot pan. Three minutes later, 
they’ll have opened up and cooked; sprinkle them 
with a generous spoonful of coarse sea salt  
and one diced shallot ; if you like spicy food, try 
adding a diced serrano pepper as well. Briefly toss 
the ingredients to mix and then remove them 
from the heat. Serve the mussels directly in the 
pan, using forks and your fingers. Set out a small bowl of melted butter  for dipping and a larger 
bowl for discarding the shells as you eat.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 68Sweet
As with salt, we’re hardwired to like sweet foods. Sweet tastes signal quickly digestible calories 
and thus fast energy, which would have been more important in the days when picking up 
the groceries also involved picking up a spear. Just as the taste of saltiness tempts us to eat 
biologically necessary salt, the taste of sweetness entices us to eat life-sustaining, energy-rich 
foods. Our desire for sweetness changes over our lifespan, decreasing as we mature. A child’s 
preference for sweet things is biologically related to the physical 
process of bone growth. (Quick, kids, run and tell your parents that 
your sweet tooth is because of biology! )
The taste cell receptors that trigger “sweet” messages are more 
complicated than their salty counterparts—not surprising given 
the difference in complexity between a single sodium ion and the 
compounds that our bodies can pull apart for energy. For a 
compound to register as sweet, it has to be able to latch onto two external points on the 
taste receptor cells that measure sweetness. To do this, the compound has to be shaped 
such that it can connect to both points and it has to have the right chemical structure to 
chemically bind at those two points. It’s a remarkably specific “lock” that matches only a few 
dozen common natural “keys”—almost always various types of sugars.
Subtle differences in how well compounds fit into the receptor cell’s “lock” 
influence how sweet various compounds taste. Common table sugar 
(sucrose) fits relatively well, while the sugars in milk (lactose) aren’t as 
adept and thus register as less sweet. The sugar fructose, common in fruits, 
tastes even sweeter than sucrose at room temperature, but as an excellent 
example of how complicated chemistry and biology can be, the sweetness 
of fructose decreases with temperature. The shape of a fructose molecule 
changes as it heats up, altering its ability to bind to sweet receptors. (For 
the chemistry geeks: fructose has a few heat-related tautomers —structural 
variations where a hydrogen atom moves over a spot, swapping the order 
of adjacent single and double bonds—and the tautomers that occur at 
warmer temperatures don’t trigger the receptor cells in the same way.)
How we perceive sweetness also depends on how easily a compound binds to the taste 
receptors and how long it stays bound. Common table sugar, sucrose, makes only a weak 
connection to the receptor, which is why its onset is slow and it takes us a second or two to 
register “sweet!” when we taste it. Sucrose has a pleasant lingering taste, even at very high 
concentrations. On the other hand, fructose binds very quickly to our sweet taste receptors, 
but also washes away quickly. You’ll find various forms of sweeteners have different taste 
sensations, ramping up and lingering for different lengths of time. With tasting, it’s not just 
how strong a sensation is, but how we perceive it over time.Cats can’t taste sugar! Different animals 
have evolved to have different taste 
receptors based on their diets. Most 
pure carnivores—cats included—don’t 
ingest carbs as part of their natural diets 
and appear to have no sweet detectors. 
Relative Sweetness of Fructose to Sucrose50°F
10°C122°F
50°C100%
0%Fructose
Sucrose
Compared to sucrose, fructose 
becomes less sweet as it gets 
warmer—using it makes 
sense in cold beverages!Taste, the Gustatory Sense 69Compounds other than sugar can fit into the sweet receptor’s detector. Lead, in the 
form of lead acetate, tastes sweet, as the ancient Romans unwittingly discovered. A few 
proteins, such as monellin, also taste sweet, and can act as sugar substitutes because 
of how easily they activate our sweet receptors. Sugar substitutes—both those that are 
synthetically created and those that are selectively extracted from plants—are selected to 
bind exceedingly well to taste receptors, analogous to examining the lock and designing 
as perfect a key for it as possible. Stevioside, the family of compounds in the stevia plant 
responsible for its sweetness, triggers sweetness perception at a dilution 300 to 600 times 
weaker than we need to detect sucrose; aspartame, a synthetic sweetener, is slightly less 
potent, noticeable at a concentration 150 to 200 times weaker than sucrose.
The efficacy of sugar substitutes as a weight-control mechanism isn’t as clear-cut as you 
might think. Recent research is finding that diet sodas lead to more  weight gain, although 
why this is the case is unknown. Possibly our bodies store fat based in part on the sensation 
of sweetness and not just calories in, or the specific artificial sweeteners may impact our gut 
bacteria and change how we handle food.
Sugar substitutes can also taste bitter at larger concentrations because of slight similarities between 
how bitter receptors and sweet receptors work. Some of the bitter receptors accept “twisted, ” 
nonplanar versions of the sugar substitute compounds—a key that fits one lock can potentially fit 
other locks! This fit issue is one reason why candies that rely on 
sugar (sucrose) for volume can’t be made with sugar substitutes. 
Table sugar, as a cooking ingredient, is used for more than 
its sweet taste: it can bind water, cause and aid in browning 
reactions, ferment, and crystallize—it’s remarkable how many 
different roles one simple molecule can fill, so it’s no surprise 
that more complicated molecules have even more quirks!
Tips • In a recipe that calls for a specific type of sugar—say, corn syrup—it’s often included for  functional 
reasons, not taste. Corn syrup (100% glucose) inhibits crystal formation, which produces gritty textures, 
and this is why caramel candies and ice cream bases sometimes call for it.
• Modern brown sugar is made from white sugar with molasses added in, at about a 10:1 ratio. If you’re cooking 
and are out of brown sugar, mix in about 2 tablespoons (30 mL) molasses per cup (200g) of sugar (more for 
darker brown sugar).
• When making sugar syrups for sweetening drinks like iced tea, be mindful of heat. Table sugar in water, when 
heated and simmered, will break down into fructose and glucose, which taste less sweet. A sugar syrup heated 
only briefly until the sugar is fully dissolved will taste sweeter than the same syrup heated and simmered.
To make 
something 
sweeter• Add sugar, honey, or other sweeteners (see page 63); reduce sour or bitter ingredients.
If a dish is 
too sweet• Increase sourness (e.g., add lemon juice or vinegar) or spiciness (e.g., add cayenne pepper).
• For culinary experimentalists, use a sweetness inhibitor (see page 393).The politics of sugar are complicated. Have 
you ever noticed that nutritional labels on 
foods in the US give a “percent daily value” for 
everything except sugar? The World Health 
Organization says to limit free sugars to 10% 
of your caloric intake and suggests 5% is ideal. 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 70How to Cook an Artichoke
To the  uninitiated, artichokes are a culinary 
puzzle because they’re unlike anything else 
we eat. (What other food do we eat that’s the 
unbloomed bud of a flower?) They also cause 
taste perversion, in their case changing how 
sweet things taste.
One normally eats artichoke petals  by plucking a 
petal off the cooked bud; dipping it in a sauce, 
melted butter, or infused oil (see page 401); and 
then scraping the flesh off the base of the petal 
using the front teeth. The easiest way to cook 
an artichoke is in the microwave: cut the stem 
off, slice the top inch (~2 cm) off, rinse it to get 
it wet, and then microwave it for 6–8 minutes 
(longer for larger or multiple artichokes). 
Artichoke hearts —the centers of the flowers—
are great on pizza, in salads, or simply roasted. 
To prepare, cut off the bottom and top of the 
artichoke, tear off the dark petals, trim away 
any remaining green parts, and scoop out the 
center cavity. Squirt some lemon juice on it to 
prevent discoloration. 
The heart is the white 
fleshy base of the bud. 
The first time one friend 
of mine tried to follow 
less-precise directions, 
he was left with nothing 
after trimming away 
everything.
Simple Ginger Syrup
Sugar is good at  simultaneously promoting other 
flavors while masking sour and bitter tastes, as 
this simple ginger syrup shows. Sugar moderates 
ginger’s strong, pungent, and slightly sour taste. 
In a pot, bring to a boil and then simmer on low 
heat:
 2 cups (480 mL) water
 ½ cup (100g) sugar
 2/3 cup (64g) raw ginger, finely chopped or 
minced
Simmer mixture for 30 minutes, let it cool, 
and then strain it into a bottle or container, 
discarding the strained-out ginger pieces.
Besides adding it to carbonated water for a 
simple ginger soda, try using this syrup on top 
of pancakes or waffles. Adding a vanilla bean, 
split lengthwise, to the 
mix while simmering 
it will impart 
a richer 
flavor.
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 71Taste Perversion with Artichokes and Miracle Berries
Our taste buds are 
chemical detectors full 
of receptor cells waiting 
for the right chemical to 
come along and trigger 
them, like locks waiting 
for the right key to 
open them. But what if 
something were able to 
pick those locks?
Taste perversion  occurs when a compound 
temporarily changes the way your tongue tastes 
other foods. Artichokes, for example, have two 
compounds, cynarin and chlorogenic acid, that 
cause foods eaten shortly afterward to taste 
slightly sweeter. Try steaming a fresh artichoke 
and eating the leaves without sauce, and then 
sipping some water; you should notice the water 
tasting mildly sweet. (This is also why pairing 
wine with artichoke is difficult!)  
There’s another compound in food, miraculin, that’s 
an even better example of taste perversion. Miraculin 
binds to sweet receptors and activates them when 
acidic compounds wander along (the effect starts in 
solutions with a pH of 6.5 and increases down to a pH 
of 4.8), thus causing foods that would normally taste 
sour (due to the acidic pH) to taste sweet.
The miracle fruit plant produces a small red berry, 
aptly named the miracle berry, that contains a 
large concentration of miraculin. Chewing the 
berry flesh for a few minutes exposes you to 
enough miraculin that subsequently chomping 
down on a lemon will yield the taste of lemonade. 
The phenomenon was first observed in 1725 in 
Western Africa, where locals were using it to 
“sweeten” their experience of sour beer. In 1852, 
the “miraculous” berry made its first appearance in the medical journals; more modern work has 
focused on potential use for diabetics. The last 
few decades have seen several attempts to use 
miraculin as a food additive, but food additives fall 
under different regulatory requirements (see page 
376) than “plain old fruits” and miraculin has yet 
to clear those hurdles.
Fortunately, you can order the berries online; 
unfortunately, they’re perishable. Dried tablets 
derived from the berry are also available and easier 
to experiment with. (For sources, see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/miraculin/ .) Once you 
have the berries or tablets in hand, invite a bunch 
of your friends over, munch on the miraculin, and 
serve up some sour foods. Plain yogurt works well, 
as do slices of grapefruit, lemon, and lime.
This “flavor tripping” experience isn’t limited to 
sour foods. I’ve had one friend swear that the 
roast beef sandwich he was eating was made with 
a honey-glazed variety, while other friends tried 
Worcestershire sauce and compared it to sashimi. 
Try foods such as salsas, tomatoes, apple cider 
vinegar, radishes, parsley, stout beers, hot sauces, 
and cheeses. Keep in mind that miraculin makes 
sour foods taste sweet but doesn’t actually alter 
their pH, so don’t pig out on lemons, lest you give 
yourself a bad case of heartburn.
Miraculin, while fun to experience, ends up not 
being practical as a broad sugar substitute in its 
usual form: it’ll stick around on your tongue for up 
to an hour, meaning other foods eaten after it will 
also be affected. There is some work being done to 
try to add proteins similar to miraculin into  grain 
crops—imagine cereal grains that taste sweet but 
don’t have extra sugar (see US Patent #5,326,580—
mmm, noncarbohydrate sweeteners ), but who knows 
where that’ll go and if consumers will accept it.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 72Sour
Sour, tart tastes are caused by acidic compounds in foods, and as with sweet and salty 
tastes, we’re hardwired from birth to react to them. Similar to how we taste salt, the 
sensation of sourness is detected via ion channels located on sour taste receptors that 
interact with an acidic compound’s hydrogen ions. Quite literally, your sour taste receptors 
are primitive chemical acidity detectors. Hydrogen ions trigger sour taste receptors; the 
more taste buds that are firing, the more sour a food will taste. 
Humans are unique in our enjoyment of sour foods. Like bitter tastes, sour tastes are 
an indicator of potentially dangerous foods; in this case the aversion prevents us from 
consuming spoiled items. How we came to enjoy sour tastes is a small biological mystery. 
Somewhere in our past we lost the ability to synthesize vitamin C, likely from regular 
consumption of fruits high in it; one theory for our learned desire to eat sour foods centers 
on ensuring that we ingest enough vitamin C to avoid diseases like scurvy.
Regardless of why, we learn to enjoy sour tastes as we mature. Some items—mostly fruits—
are naturally sour due to their chemistry. Ascorbic and citric acids in citrus fruits like lemons 
make them unbearably tart, a reasonable defense against any herbivore that doesn’t know 
how to cook. Malic acid, common in apples, gives them a delicious tartness. Other foods 
become sour from spoilage: yogurt, vinegar, fermented pickles, kimchi, and sourdough 
bread all rely on fermentation, which generates deliciously spoiled food along with sour-
tasting acids like lactic acid and acetic acid.
Of course, there are exceptions and complications to the “acids taste sour” rule. Acids are 
compounds that can lend out a hydrogen ion, but other regions of a compound may be 
able to match other taste receptors. Glutamic acid tastes savory; picric acid is bitter. And 
how quickly we detect sourness can vary by the type of acid, similar to how some sugars 
are quickly detected while others take time to register. Sour-tasting items can have different 
onset times and linger for varying durations, based on the chemistry of the ingredients. 
Citric acid is very quickly detected, giving a quick burst of sour flavor; malic acid, however, 
has a slow onset and lingers. Food manufacturers use this to clever effect, combining 
multiple acids to generate a sour taste profile that has the desired intensity over time.
Tips • Taste dishes toward the end of cooking and check the balance of both 
saltiness and sourness, adding an ingredient such as lemon juice or 
vinegar to “brighten up” the flavors.
To make 
something sourer• Add lemon juice, vinegar, or sour-tasting ingredients (see page 63).
If a dish is too sour • Increase sweetness to mask.Taste, the Gustatory Sense 73Homemade Yogurt
Yogurt is good milk “gone bad” with good bacteria. The bacteria Streptococcus thermophiles  and 
Lactobacillus bulgaricus turn milk into yogurt by consuming lactose sugars and creating lactic acid, giving 
yogurt its characteristic sour, tart taste. Of course, if you add enough sugar (e.g., honey or jam) or salt 
(say, for marinades—see page 62), you’ll mask the sourness. The lactic acid also lowers the pH, causing the 
yogurt to thicken by  denaturing the milk proteins.
In a pan (or, preferably, a double-boiler), gently heat:
 2 cups (~500 mL) milk (any type other than 
lactose-free, as the bacteria need lactose—
if you like, try goat’s or sheep’s milk, if 
you can get it)
Bring the milk up to 200°F / 93.3°C using a digital 
thermometer. Do not boil the milk, as that will 
affect the yogurt’s flavor.
Transfer the milk to a thermos or insulated 
container, and wait until it cools to 115°F / 46°C. 
Add 2 tablespoons (30g) plain yogurt and stir 
to combine. Make sure the yogurt you use lists 
“active cultures” as an ingredient; this means the 
yogurt has living good bacteria in it. Adding the 
yogurt provides the necessary bacteria, so don’t 
add it before the milk cools; otherwise, you’ll 
cook the bacteria!
Cover the container and incubate the liquid for 
4–7 hours. Transfer it to a storage container and 
store it in the fridge.
Notes
• Try adding honey or jam to the hot milk before 
inoculation to take the tart edge off the 
finished product (sweet helps mask sour). Many 
cultures use yogurt as a savory ingredient—
as a garnish on top of a soup, as a marinade, 
or as the base for a sauce on top of meats and 
fish (see page 28).
• This recipe sterilizes the milk (pasteurized 
milk can still have a low level of bacteria) and 
keeps the incubation period short to reduce the chance of growth of foodborne illness–related 
bacteria. As with anything you eat, keep in mind 
that if it tastes bad, smells off, or looks up at 
you and cracks a joke, you probably shouldn’t 
eat it. (The inverse is, sadly, not true: just 
because something smells fine doesn’t mean 
it’s necessarily safe.) If you’re comfortable with 
some risk in your food, longer incubations will 
give you a stronger, more developed flavor. 
Traditional recipes simply leave the milk out, 
covered, overnight to ferment.
• Traditional yogurts tend to be thin and 
runny, which might not be to your liking. For 
Greek-style thick yogurt, place the yogurt 
in a strainer over a bowl and let it drip-
strain overnight in the fridge. Or, if you 
like, experiment with adding thickeners like 
pectin, agar, or gelatin (see page 418). For a 
richer yogurt, try replacing ½ cup (120 mL) 
of the milk with cream before heating it. For 
additional yogurt-making tips, see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/yogurt/ .
Make an impromptu “bain-marie” (double-boiler) by placing 
a metal bowl in a sauté pan and wedging a spoon under one 
side of the bowl to allow water to circulate underneath.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 74Bitter
Like sour, the taste of bitter evolved from a biological necessity to avoid dangerous foods, 
generally toxic plants. Unlike sour, bitter has much more complicated detection 
mechanisms. It’s estimated that there are around 35 different types of receptor cells for 
tasting bitter compounds, with each type fitting different chemical “keys” in the lock-and-
key metaphor. We detect all of these different signals as “bitter!” because the different 
receptor cells connect to a common nerve fiber.
The taste of bitter is unusual in that we learn to enjoy it. We know bitterness is 
a learned preference—different cultures have different preferences for it, with 
Americans and the British placing less emphasis on it than other cultures—
but whether we learn to like bitter flavors because of exposure effects or social 
conditioning is an open question. It is clear that we don’t like bitter foods at the start 
of our lives. This “learning to like” is why bitter foods are unappealing to kids: they 
haven’t learned to tolerate, let alone enjoy, the sensation of bitterness. Dandelion 
greens, rhubarb, and undercooked artichoke leaves all contain bitter-tasting 
compounds. Not surprisingly, I couldn’t stand those things as a kid; as I’ve gotten 
older, I’ve come to enjoy the bitterness of something like dandelion greens in a salad.
Bitter can also be a confusing taste. A surprising number of people confuse bitter and sour 
tastes for each other—around one in eight English-speaking people incorrectly describe 
citric acid  in water as tasting bitter, not sour. Coffee is commonly described as bitter, but 
it can also be quite acidic, giving it a sour taste in addition to its stronger bitter taste. 
Bitterness seems to lend itself exceedingly well to other drinks besides coffee: black tea, 
hops (used in making beer), and kola nuts (kola as in cola as in soft drinks) are all bitter. Like 
all bitter foods, they’re still delicious—if you’ve learned to like them! 
Tips • Genetic differences in  bitter taste sensations change preferences for sweet items, especially in  children. 
When serving others, remember that we don’t all experience the same “taste landscape” and that 
differences in food upbringing change how much bitterness an eater will enjoy.
• Salty and sweet tastes mask bitterness. Try a simple “bitter taste test” using modern tonic water, which 
uses quinine as a bittering agent and is easy to get at the grocery store. (Look for one free of any 
sweetener.) Pour tonic water into two drinking glasses. In one, add enough salt to neutralize the taste. 
Compare the taste of the tonic water in the two glasses.
To make 
something 
bitterer• It’s telling that, unlike with all the other tastes, we don’t have a standard seasoning to make things more 
bitter! Use a bitter ingredient such as bitter greens or cocoa (see page 63).
If a dish is 
too bitter• Increase saltiness or sweetness to mask. A pinch of salt in a salad that contains bitter items such as 
dandelion greens helps balance the flavor.
• Try adding a fatty ingredient. Some studies show that moderate levels of fat reduce the sensation of 
bitterness without impacting other tastes.Minimum threshold of limonin (mg/kg) needed
to create bitter taste in sugar water (% weight)0 102
03
1Bittermg/kg
% sugar 
In plain water, bitter limonin 
can be tasted at 1 mg/kg 
(or higher concentrations); 
it takes almost three times 
as much when mixed 
into a 10% sugar solution 
(Guadagni, 1973).Taste, the Gustatory Sense 75Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and Lardons
Frisée —also called curly endive —is a bitter leafy 
green that’s often used in a salad with poached 
eggs and lardons, known to the French as Salade 
Lyonnaise . The fat of the lardons—essentially, 
bacon bits—and egg yolk moderates the bitterness 
of the frisée. Try tasting some of the plain 
frisée leaves after eating the salad to notice the 
difference! This recipe makes two appetizer-portion 
salads.
Wash 1 head of frisée, about 1/3 pound (~150g),  
and cut the base off so that the leaves are 
separated. Either use a salad spinner or pat the 
leaves dry using a towel, and then transfer the 
leaves to a large mixing bowl. Tear any larger 
leaves into a few pieces.
Create the lardons using either thick slices from 
pork belly  or 2–3 slices (80–120g) of thick-
cut bacon , cut into large cubes. (If using salted 
pork belly, you’ll want to briefly boil the meat 
to remove some of the salt.) Place the meat into 
a frying pan set to medium-low heat and cook 
the lardons, flipping them occasionally. Once the 
lardons are nicely browned, turn the heat off and 
transfer them to the mixing bowl, leaving the 
rendered fat behind. Create a vinaigrette by transferring 2 
tablespoons (30 mL) rendered pork fat  from the 
frying pan into a small mixing bowl or measuring 
cup. Add 2 tablespoons (20g) diced shallot , 1 
tablespoon (15 mL) olive oil , 1 tablespoon (15 
mL) white vinegar  (use champagne vinegar or 
sherry vinegar, if you have it), and 1 teaspoon 
(5g) Dijon mustard . Add salt and pepper  to 
taste.
If you like, create some croutons in the pan, 
using the remaining rendered fat. Place 2 slices 
of bread  cut into ½” / 1 cm cubes over medium 
heat, shaking the pan as necessary to jostle the 
bread as it toasts. Transfer the croutons to the 
mixing bowl when done.
Drizzle the vinaigrette over the leaves in the 
mixing bowl, tossing the leaves, lardons, and 
optional croutons.
Poach two eggs  
(see page 193 for 
directions). To serve, 
place a portion of the 
frisée salad on a plate 
and then set a poached 
egg on top.
Broiled Belgian Endive
Quarter an endive  down the center to get four identical wedges and place them on a baking sheet 
or oven-safe pan. Sprinkle them with a small amount of  sugar  and drizzle a small amount of 
melted butter or olive oil  on top.
Transfer the tray to a grill or place it under a broiler for a few minutes, until the endive 
becomes slightly soft and the edges of the leaves begin to turn brown.
Serve with blue cheese or use the endive as a vegetable accompaniment to 
stronger-flavored fish.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 76Savory, a.k.a. Umami
Savory tastes, sometimes called umami , generate lip-smacking sensations that are the 
hallmark of rich foods. Pizza, meats, and hard aged cheeses like Parmesan tend to be high in 
savory-tasting compounds, as are good broths, mushrooms, and  tomatoes. While savory 
tastes are less discussed in Western cuisine than the four tastes described so far, they are 
foundational to Japanese cuisine. Savory taste receptors were only recently discovered; in 
2002, researchers found a mechanism for these that has similarities to how sweet receptors 
work, ending any arguments that savory/umami is not a true taste.
The Japanese emphasis on savory tastes is a fascinating quirk of geography, climate, and the 
resulting edible plants. Japanese cuisine is the only one to make consistent, extensive use of 
seaweed, and seaweed happens to be very high in the chemical 
compound glutamate. It’s this compound, in the form of glutamic 
acid, that was first identified by a Japanese chemist, Kikunae Ikeda, 
in 1908. He initially used the Japanese word for delicious, umai , to 
describe how it increases the sensation of other tastes, suggesting 
umami  and then “glutamic taste” as a name for the sensation. 
While others had described the taste sensation before—the 
French foodie Jean Anthelme Brillat-Savarin mused about it 
almost a century earlier when he wrote  about osmazome —it was 
Ikeda who successfully isolated and commercialized it.
To an average Western palate, savory tastes are subtler than 
the four primary Western tastes. This isn’t surprising, because only a few of the everyday 
ingredients used in Western cooking have tastants that trigger the savory sensation. Sauces 
like ketchup and fish sauce (used by the ancient Romans) are typical sources for savory 
flavors; adopted items like soy sauce are also common. (Modern ketchup is a taste miracle: 
sweet, salty, savory, and even a little sour, but not bitter—no wonder kids love it!)
From a biological perspective, savory receptors on the tongue sense nucleotides and 
amino acids such as glutamate. Glutamate—the same glutamate in monosodium 
glutamate (MSG)—is the most common compound that triggers savory taste. While Ikeda 
initially described the taste sensation as being glutamate-sensing, it’s actually a broader 
phenomenon. Inosinate, guanylate, and aspartate are also naturally common in ingredients. 
Pragmatically speaking, though, the easiest way to add a savory taste is to use ingredients 
high in free glutamate. (Free glutamate can dissolve away from the food in order to bind 
with the receptors on your tongue; bound glutamate isn’t easily detected.)
Why do we sense compounds like glutamate? Unlike with other tastes, we don’t have a 
biological predisposition for savory sensations, although we do gravitate toward them. 
Presumably there was an evolutionary advantage to ensuring we ate protein-rich foods, Unable to conjure a memory of a savory 
taste? Make a simple broth by rehydrating a tablespoon of dried shiitake mushrooms in 1 cup (240 mL) of boiling water. Let the mushrooms steep for 15 minutes. Taste the liquid; it will have a high level of glutamic acid from the mushrooms. (Alternatively, you can dissolve a small amount of MSG in a glass of water, but it’ll also taste salty from the sodium.)
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 77as they provide necessary amino acids to build and repair muscle tissue. The very first 
thing many of us taste in life—human breast milk—is surprisingly high in glutamate. Just 
as sweetness and saltiness are associated with positive attributes of food (quick energy 
in the case of sweet and an element essential for regulating blood pressure in the case of 
saltiness), our craving for savory tastes ensures we ingest enough amino acids. Regardless, 
the savory taste is worth understanding for its hedonistic value.
There are plenty of natural sources of glutamate. The British and Australian fondness for 
vegemite  is due to its savory kick. Many traditional Japanese dishes call for dashi , a stock 
made from ingredients high in natural glutamate, such as kombu seaweed (2.2% glutamate 
by weight). Making dashi is easy: in a pot, place 3 cups (720 mL) cold water and a 6” / 15 cm 
strip of kombu (dried kelp), and let the mixture rest for 10 minutes. Bring it to a boil slowly 
on low heat. Remove the kombu just before the water begins to boil and add 10g of bonito 
flakes (flakes of dried and smoked bonito fish). Bring the water to a boil, remove it from 
the heat, and strain out the bonito flakes. This liquid is dashi. To make miso soup, add miso 
paste, diced tofu, and (optionally) sliced green onions, nori, or wakame  (an edible seaweed).
Glutamate occurs naturally in many other foods—for example, beef (0.1%) and cabbage 
(0.1%). And if you’re like most geeks and pizza makes your mouth water, it might be because of 
the glutamate in the ingredients: Parmesan cheese (1.2%), tomatoes (0.14%), and mushrooms 
(0.07%). Besides using ingredients naturally high in glutamate compounds, you can add 
glutamate directly to food by using MSG. MSG is to savoriness as sugar is to sweetness: as a 
chemical, it’s mostly odorless (still full of taste!), but it triggers the receptors on the tongue.0.5 1.5 0 1 2GLUTAMATE PERCENTAGE
Tomatoes
(0.14%)Shitake Mushrooms
(0.07%)
Tomato Juice
(0.26%)
Parmesan Cheese
(1.20%)Nori Seaweed
(1.40%)Green Tea
(0.67%)
Bonito
(0.29%)Mackerel
(0.22%)Beef
(0.10%)Chinese Cabbage
(0.10%)
Chicken
(0.08%)
Corn
(0.13%)Cod
(0.04%)Kombu Seaweed
(2.20%)
Free glutamate content of common ingredients.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 78Increasing the sensation of savoriness has an ancillary benefit: it amplifies our other senses 
of taste. Savoriness increases the sensation of salty and sweet compounds, meaning that 
you can cut the amount of salt in a dish by adding savory-tasting ingredients or using MSG. 
(If using MSG, you should reduce salt regardless because it dissolves and disassociates into 
a sodium ion and glutamate, with the sodium ion increasing the salty taste.)
Sensitivity to monosodium glutamate, called MSG symptom complex by the 
medical community, has been found to temporarily affect around 1 to 2% of people. Intolerant individuals, given 3 grams of MSG without any other food, may experience short-term symptoms like headaches, numbness, or flushing about an hour later. Amounts of MSG added to foods don’t generally exceed 0.5 grams, and double-blind controlled studies with placebos cast plenty of doubt on individuals who claim sensitivity.
Tips • For vegetable dishes and vegetarian cooking, add ingredients high in glutamate to  improve 
overall flavor.
To make something 
more savory• Use savory ingredients such as corn, peas, tomatoes, Parmesan cheese, or soy sauce.
• Use cooking techniques that increase savory compounds (e.g., curing and fermenting foods 
like bacon, soy sauce, and fish sauce increases their glutamate levels).
• Add MSG, depending on how you feel about it. (The “Chinese restaurant syndrome” of MSG 
causing an allergic reaction is entirely placebo—no controlled study has ever replicated it—
but placebo effects can be strong!)
If a dish is 
too savory• No good counteraction; try dilution.
Edamame
Japanese  for “beans on branches,” edamame —young soybeans that have been 
steamed and sometimes lightly salted—is a great savory appetizer before a meal. 
Popping the seeds out of the pods is an enjoyable slow start to dinner. Edamame are 
traditionally sold still on the vine (look for them that way in an Asian food market), 
but for most of us they’re more easily found in the freezer section at well-stocked 
grocery stores. 
To prepare them, either drop the edamame  into salted boiling water  and cook 
for 2–5 minutes, or steam them in a microwave, using a covered container with ¼ 
cup (~60 mL) water , for 2–5 minutes. Sprinkle them with salt before serving. Try 
sautéing the shelled beans in olive oil  with crushed garlic and soy sauce .Taste, the Gustatory Sense 79Spicy/Hot, Cooling, and Other Taste Sensations
In addition to the primary sensations of taste, our taste buds also register a set of sensations 
related to the chemical properties of some foods that with exposure we learn to enjoy. 
In culinary applications, chemesthesis —sensations caused by chemical compounds—
contributes to the taste of everything from hot peppers to pungent garlic to cooling menthol 
candies. 
Spicy hot sensations are the most common form of culinary chemesthesis. Compounds 
such as capsaicin in hot peppers both irritate cells and trigger the same mechanism used 
to detect hot temperatures, using a neurotransmitter called substance P  (P is for pain ; go 
figure). In one of nature’s quirkier moves, substance P is slowly depleted as it is used and 
takes time—many days, possibly weeks—to replenish. This means that if you eat hot foods 
often enough, you will build up a tolerance for hotter and hotter foods as your ability 
to detect the presence of compounds like capsaicin decreases. Because of this, asking 
someone else if a dish is spicy won’t always tell you if it’s safe to jump in; he or she may be 
a regular eater of spicy foods. Also, as you expose yourself to spicy food, you’ll need more 
and more of the ingredients that bring the heat to get the same level 
of sensation.
Spicy pungent sensations can be triggered without tripping the hot 
temperature mechanism. Garlic, wasabi, and mustard can all cause a 
smarting, mind-searing reaction, as do some stinky French cheeses 
that have sharp, caustic qualities. Szechuan (also known as Sichuan) 
peppers, used in Asian cooking, and Melegueta peppers, used in Africa, 
cause a mild pungent as well as a numbing sensation.
Chemesthesis  includes a number of other sensations besides spicy 
hot and pungent. Peppermint candies get their cooling effect from 
the chemical menthol, which occurs naturally in mint oils from plants 
such as peppermint. Menthol activates the same nerve pathways that 
cold temperatures do, which is why chewing mint gum or eating mint 
candies can cause a tingling cold reaction. 
Our mouths capture data for other aspects of oral irritation, too. 
Astringency , a drying, puckering reaction, occurs when certain compounds 
(normally polyphenols) dry the mouth out, possibly by binding to 
proteins in saliva that normally provide lubrication. Astringent foods 
include persimmon, some teas, certain unripe fruits, and lower-quality 
pomegranate juices (the bark and pulp are astringent). Carbonated 
beverages also cause cellular irritation, partly masking other taste 
sensations at the same time. Try sipping on some bottled seltzer water Spilanthol, the active ingredient 
in the edible flower Szechuan 
buttons (also known as sansho 
buttons, buzz buttons, or electric 
buttons and unrelated to Szechuan 
peppers), triggers receptors 
that cause a numbing, tingling 
sensation. The “buttons” are actually 
the flowers of the Acmella oleracea  
plant. The tingling reaction is like 
licking the terminals on a nine-
volt battery—a curious sensation, 
should you be up for splurging on 
an online purchase.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 80and then “de-fizzing” it (screw the cap back on, shake the bottle, and carefully unscrew the lid 
to slowly vent the gas). Depending upon the brand, you may be shocked at how salty the flat 
water will taste. (Carbonation also interacts with an enzyme, carbonic anhydrase 4, to activate 
our sour taste receptors, but for now it’s unclear why it doesn’t actually taste sour to us.) Sour 
foods can also trigger oral irritation, although much less noticeably so than many of the other 
taste sensations involved in chemesthesis.
Most European cultures don’t consider spicy/hot to be a primary taste; other 
cultures, like the Thai, do, and Ayurvedic medicinal practices on the Indian 
subcontinent define “warm” as part of basic food prescriptions. Why the difference? One theory suggests genetic differences in taste receptors between Europeans and natives of other regions. (More taste receptor cells = more cells that can be irritated.)
Tips • Spicy foods decrease the perception of sweetness and saltiness; they can increase the ability to detect 
some odors while decreasing others. 
To make 
something 
spicier• Use hot ingredients such as cayenne pepper (capsaicin) or black pepper (slightly pungent due to the 
compound piperine).
If a dish is 
too spicy• Capsaicin is a  nonpolar molecule (see page 59), which is why sugary and fatty ingredients are better able 
to partly neutralize it while drinking water does little to reduce the burning sensation. Dairy works well, 
for multiple reasons: casein proteins bind to capsaicin and lactose sugars help dissolve capsaicin into 
solution. If a dish is too hot, ideally add dairy; otherwise, add something with sugars or fats to reduce 
the heat.
DIY Scoville Scale
Wilber Scoville, an American pharmacist, spent a lot of time at the turn of the 20th century looking at 
how to extract compounds from plants. His most famous contribution is an organoleptic test—one that relies on the senses—for measuring the amount of capsaicin in hot peppers. Organoleptic tests aren’t particularly accurate (what one person senses will be different over time and different from what others sense), but they do have the advantage that you can do them at home.
Scoville’s method, first published in 1911, is easy, relying on dried powders from various 
peppers (a.k.a. capsicum): “One grain [64.8 mg] of ground capsicum is macerated over night in 100 cc. of alcohol [78.9g], and after thorough shaking, filtered. This alcoholic solution is then added to sweetened water in definite proportions until a distinct but weak pungency is perceptible on the tongue.” He doesn’t specify how much sugar to use in “sweetened water,” but 10% sugar to water is a reasonable start, should you wish to try it; for alcohol, use a neutral grain alcohol like vodka. To determine the Scoville score for a pepper, calculate how diluted the ground capsicum is in the just detectably hot solution. Use a few varieties of hot peppers so you can do relative comparisons!
Taste, the Gustatory Sense 81Peppermint Chocolate Mints
Junior Mints, Peppermint Patties, Andes, After 
Eight—the abundance of candies that are sugar 
and menthol coated in chocolate is proof enough 
of the popularity of the cooling sensation of 
menthol. Try making your own, using high-
quality chocolate.
In a mixing bowl, measure out and mix until the 
ingredients become a consistent, thick paste:
 1 cup (120g) powdered sugar
 1 tablespoon (15g) room-temperature butter
 2 teaspoons (10 mL) milk or corn syrup (use corn syrup if you want a more 
syrupy, less brittle center)
 2 teaspoons (10 mL) peppermint extract
 1 teaspoon (5g) granulated sugar
Next, form the paste into whatever shapes you’d like your mints to take. There are 
a number of ways to do this. The easiest is to roll them into small balls (like Junior 
Mint candies); you can also form a log with the paste and slice off round discs. Once 
you have the shapes, let them rest on the counter for an hour or two to partly dry, or 
store them in the freezer for 30 minutes to firm up.
In a second bowl, melt 4–8 ounces (110–220g) dark, bittersweet chocolate , 
following the directions for tempering (see page 157). If you don’t mind cheating, 
use chocolate candy coating instead, which has different fats instead of cocoa fat 
and doesn’t need to be tempered.
Using a fork (a plastic one with the center tines snapped off works well), dip the 
peppermint into the chocolate, flipping each candy to coat it, and then lightly tap 
the fork up and down on the edge of the bowl to thin the coating. Transfer the 
candies to a plate or cookie sheet lined with parchment or wax paper and allow them 
to set at room temperature. (Setting them in the fridge or freezer won’t correctly 
temper the chocolate!)
Commercial manufacturers use a bunch of tricks to make candies. Take an 
After Eight mint, with its liquid center: the makers create the filling by mixing 
an enzyme, invertase, in with the sugar. Over a few days, that enzyme breaks 
down sugar (sucrose) into simpler sugars (fructose and glucose), which 
happen to be somewhat syrupy. (See page 432 for more about enzymes.)  
Don’t expect to be able to perfectly replicate your favorite chocolate mint 
candy!
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 82
What’s to say you and I  taste and smell everything 
the same way? Imagine you’re cooking dinner with 
family or friends and get into a heated argument 
about the greens needing more salt. (I know, 
every parent’s dream.) For one person it’s not salty 
enough, while to another it’s already way too 
salty. Or maybe you tried a chicken recipe that has 
cilantro (see page 28), and it tasted awful. What’s 
going on here?Just like genetic variations lead to different 
colors of eyes, there are variations in our taste 
buds and smell receptors. Here are three different 
taste experiments that you can do to see how 
some of your genes for taste and smell stack up. 
The order of these tests doesn’t matter, but I 
suggest doing the peppermint candy one last as a 
way of finishing with a pleasant taste.
First, grab these supplies:
Test 1 A few leaves of cilantro
Test 2 Either: 
PTC/PROP test strips (search online 
for “supertaster test paper” or see 
http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/
supertaster/ ) Or:
A bottle of blue food coloring,
A cotton swab or spoon,
A sheet of paper punched for a three-ring binder (or other tongue-
safe thing with a 5/16” / 8 mm–diameter hole), torn so that you 
have a small square of paper with one hole punched in it,
A mirror, or a partner willing to look at your tongue
Test 3 A peppermint candy (e.g., Altoids or Pep-O-Mint Life Savers)—they lose potency over time,  
so get fresh ones!,
A cup of water or mild beverage to rinse your mouth out
Here’s what to do: 
Test 1: Smell of cilantro 
1. Pinch your nose, and then chew on the 
cilantro. Notice what your reaction is.
2. Let go of your nose, and take a breath. Take 
note of what odors you smell. 
Test 2: PTC/PROP version
1. Place the test strip on your tongue and let it 
rest there for a few seconds. 
2. Note what taste sensations you have. Is it 
strong, mild, or the pleasant sensation of wet 
paper?Test 2: Blue food coloring version
If you don’t have test strips, you can stick your 
tongue out (all in the name of science, of course).
1. Place one drop of the blue food coloring on 
the cotton swab or spoon.
2. Stain your tongue with it. Take a sip of water 
to rinse some dye away.
3. Look for spots on your tongue—you should 
see pinkish spots surrounded by dark blue. 
(Those pink spots are fungiform papillae —
little projections on the top of tongue that 
have taste buds—and are not stained by food 
coloring; it’s possible to not count any.)Lab: Genetic Taste DifferencesTaste, the Gustatory Sense 83
4. Choose the area that is densest with spots, 
usually the front portion of the tongue. Place 
the piece of paper so that you can see that 
spot through the hole.
5. Either using a mirror or with a partner’s help, 
count the number of pink dots visible. 
This is what you’re looking 
for when counting the 
dots on your tongue. 
There are about 12 
dots in this example.
Test 3: Trigeminal sensitivity
1. Pop the fresh peppermint candy in your 
mouth and clamp down (no open mouths and 
no chewing!).
2. Wait about half a minute, giving your saliva a 
chance to soften up and break down the candy.
3. Chomp down on the candy without opening 
your mouth . What do you notice? Is it a 
strong sensation, or a mild one?
4. Take a breath through your mouth and see 
how the flavor changes.
Investigation time! 
What did you notice about the three tests? Any surprises? How do you think differences in taste 
change the way people eat? How would increased sensitivity to bitter foods change how much or the 
way someone seasons something?
Here are some things to keep in mind:
• About 1 in 10 people will smell cilantro 
differently.
• For the blue food coloring test, if you counted 
more than 30 papillae, you’re probably a 
supertaster. Normal tasters tend to have 
between 15 and 30 papillae, while nontasters 
have fewer than 15, on average. About 25% of 
people are nontasters, 50% are normal tasters, 
and 25% are supertasters.• The peppermint candy test will give you 
a rough sense of how sensitive you are 
to trigeminal stimulation. If the cooling 
sensation you have produces a “whooo, that’s 
strong!” reaction, then you’re likely to be very 
trigeminally sensitive. If you hardly notice 
anything, then you are likely to be mildly 
sensitive. Most people, however, find that the 
cooling effect lies between these two extremes.
Extra credit:
Our senses can differ for reasons besides genetics: 
diseases can damage your senses, either temporarily 
or permanently. One of the quickest tests you can 
do for nerve damage related to taste is to wet a 
finger and dip it into instant coffee, preferably a 
really bitter espresso. Lick your finger and then 
swallow, paying attention to the sensations you 
notice. Do you sense a bitter sensation on your tongue, or is there a big jump in sensation as you 
swallow? If so, the nerve that carries signals from 
the front of your tongue (your chorda tympani 
nerve) is likely damaged, while the nerve that 
carries signals from the back of your tongue (your 
glossopharyngeal nerve) is functioning.Lab: Genetic Taste Differences
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 84Inspiration by Taste Combinations
Combinations of ingredients can change the flavors of what we eat in surprising ways. A 
pinch of salt can change the flavor of a dish by reducing bitterness, which in turn increases 
the perception of sweetness. This type of interaction is why adding an ingredient that 
brings taste to a dish can also bring balance and boost the sensation of desirable flavors.
Most combinations of tastes—salty + sweet, bitter + sweet—also change flavors. This is a 
remarkable thing! Changes in tastes, things that your tongue detects, can change 
aromas detected by your nose. The gustatory and olfaction systems are generally 
thought of as being separate, but there is overlap. Even at undetectable levels, 
small quantities of cayenne pepper can increase our ability to detect the 
aromas of seemingly unrelated items, like grape in grape jelly. Our senses are 
a complicated system, with the thresholds and intensities at which we register 
and detect a compound being changed by other compounds.
When cooking, taste the dish you’re working on and ask yourself what 
sensations are too strong or too weak. Sometimes the fix is simple: fresh 
fruit that’s slightly dull can be sprinkled with sugar (try this on strawberries), 
lightly salted (on grapefruit), or wetted with lime juice (papaya, watermelon, peaches 
with honey). More inspiring solutions combine ingredients with different primary tastes 
(sweet watermelon and salty feta cheese). Try using nontraditional taste combinations: 
Strawberries and black pepper? Mango salad with jalapeños and cilantro? Mixing up the 
basic taste combinations can be great inspiration.
Taste combinations extend beyond the classic definitions of tastes. Try experimenting with 
spicy/hot ingredients, pairing them with other basic tastes. Spicy + sweet? Buffalo wings! 
Mixing in fats can shift tastes as well, as compounds like capsaicin are fat soluble. Experiment 
with avocado and sriracha sauce, commonly known as rooster sauce  for the drawing on the 
bottle of one popular brand. Sriracha sauce, it has been claimed, can improve any dorm food, 
but be forewarned: it can hit you like a freight train if you use too much!
Many foods are combinations of three or more primary 
tastes. Ketchup, for example, is surprisingly complex, 
with tastes of umami (tomatoes), sourness (vinegar), 
sweetness (sugar, tomatoes), and saltiness (salt). If 
combining tastes in a dish becomes too challenging, 
serve two separate components side by side, pairing 
one dish with a second on the basis that the two will 
complement each other. Sweet Sour Salty BitterChocolate
Cranberries
Pickles
Honey-roasted NutsSalted GrapefruitLemonade, Oranges
Adding a pinch of salt or sugar, or ¼ teaspoon 
(0.5g) of cayenne pepper, may not cause you to 
taste the food as saltier, sweeter, or hotter, but it 
can change the flavor! You may not notice the 
change when cooking, though. If you’re sampling 
food and focused on one aspect, you will very likely 
miss changes to other aspects. The field of sensory 
analysis —measuring perceptions of the human 
senses—is fascinating and complex.
Inspiration by Taste Combinations 85Summer Watermelon and Feta Cheese Salad
When watermelon season comes around, try this 
salad to experience the combination of the saltiness 
of feta cheese and the sweetness of watermelon.
In a bowl, toss to coat:
 2 cups (300g) watermelon, cubed or scooped
 ½ cup (75g) feta cheese, cut into small pieces
 ¼ cup (40g) red onion, sliced super thin, 
soaked in water for a few minutes and 
then drained
 1 tablespoon (15 mL) olive oil (extra virgin 
because it imparts flavor)
 ½ teaspoon (2.5 mL) balsamic vinegarNote
• Try using a teaspoonful or two of lime juice, 
instead of vinegar, as the source of acidity. 
Alternatively, play with the tastes by adding 
black olives (salty), mint leaves (cooling), or 
red pepper flakes (hot), thinking about how 
each variation pushes the tastes in different 
directions.
The fast way to make 
watermelon cubes: 
use a knife to make 
a series of parallel 
slices in one direction, 
and then repeat for 
the other two axes.
Combination Single-ingredient example Combination example
Salty + sour Pickles
Preserved lemon peelSalad dressings
Salty + sweet Seaweed (slightly sweet via mannitol) Watermelon and feta cheese
Banana with sharp cheddar cheese
Cantaloupe and prosciutto
Chocolate-covered pretzels
Sour + sweet Oranges Lemon juice and sugar (e.g., lemonade)
Grilled corn with lime juice
Bitter + sour Cranberries
Grapefruit (sour via citric acid; bitter via naringin)Negroni (cocktail with gin, vermouth, Campari)
Bitter + sweet Bitter parsley
Granny Smith applesBittersweet chocolate
Coffee/tea with sugar/honey
Bitter + salty (N/A) Sautéed kale with salt
Mustard greens with bacon
Fried bitter melon
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 86
Linda Bartoshuk is an American 
psychologist who has extensively studied 
how genetic differences and diseases 
can impact the senses of smell and taste. 
She is best known for her discoveries on 
supertasters.
How did you find yourself studying 
smell and taste?
I was studying philosophy and 
fascinated with epistemology—
how do we learn what we know? 
I became interested in comparing 
taste sensations from one person to 
another, which is a really interesting 
philosophical question. If you think 
about it, you and I cannot share 
experiences. How can I know what you 
experience when you taste something, 
or feel pain, or any kind of sensation?
I think of indicator scales—on a 
scale of 1 to 10—or discrimination 
tests where you’re given a bunch of 
samples and asked to rank them. 
Ranking procedures give you some 
information, but they don’t tell you 
what someone else is experiencing. Let 
me give you an example with pain. If Linda Bartoshuk on Taste and Pleasure
you’re in the hospital, a nurse is going 
to ask you what your pain is from 1 to 
10. It’s a reasonable scale to find out 
if your pain gets better if you’re given 
an analgesic. But does your pain relate 
to the person in the bed next to you? 
No, because you don’t know what 10 
is to that person. Solving that problem 
led to discoveries like that there are 
supertasters, people who taste things 
more intensely than others do.
How do you compare taste 
differences between people, 
especially with something like 
supertasting where there are 
various degrees?
We ask them to compare taste to 
something that isn’t related to taste 
at all. I’ll give you an example. We get 
a bunch of people together and we 
look at their tongues. We can see one 
structure of the tongue called fungiform 
papillae ; they’re the larger bumps you 
can see on your tongue and a structure 
that houses taste buds. So we pick 
a group of people who have lots of 
fungiform papillae and we pick another 
group that have fewer. Then we put 
earphones on our subjects and have 
them match the sweetness of a soft 
drink to the loudness of a sound. We 
give them a knob to make the sound 
louder or softer. The people with lots 
of taste buds will crank that knob up 
to 90 decibels; the subjects with fewer 
taste buds will drop it down to 80 
decibels. A 10-decibel difference means 
a doubling of loudness, so we’ve shown 
that the people with lots of fungiform 
papillae, and thus lots of taste buds, 
match the sweetness of a soft drink to 
a sound twice as loud. Now you might say, “Maybe their hearing is different.” 
Well, we don’t have any reason to think 
that hearing is related to taste, and if 
we are right, on average those with the 
most taste buds experience twice the 
sweetness. To be safe, we use loudness 
as well as many other standards.
We know a lot about supertasters. 
If you’re a supertaster and you taste 
table sugar, it’ll be two to three times 
as sweet to you as it is to me because 
I am not a supertaster. I’m all the way 
at the other end. The metaphor I used 
is vision: I taste pastel and supertasters 
taste neon. 
Does that mean you don’t enjoy 
food as much as supertasters?
Well, liking food is a lot more than 
biology. Most of it has to do with 
previous experience and we tend to 
like what we previously experienced. I 
don’t wish I were a supertaster because 
I actually like the world I live in.
I love chocolate chip cookies. I can’t 
imagine that I’d love them any more 
if I were a supertaster, but of course 
I can’t tell because I can’t share that 
experience. However, we can use our 
new methods to compare the pleasure 
people get from things. Chocolate chip 
cookies probably do give supertasters 
a little more pleasure than they give 
me if we’re measuring it on a pleasure 
scale. In general, supertasters get more 
pleasure from their favorite foods than 
non-supertasters do.
Where does pleasure associated 
from food come from?
We think it has to be learned. The most 
common belief in the field now is that Inspiration by Taste Combinations 87
you make the president like your odor?” 
The answers get very creative. “Have his 
girlfriend wear it as a perfume.” “He likes 
baseball games; spray the odor on his 
seat when he goes to a game.” “Put it in 
the food he likes best.” All of these are 
cases of transfer of affect. You associate 
something neutral with something 
that is already liked, and that neutral 
stimulus becomes liked. 
Is this why we like certain 
combinations of flavors?
You can look at it from the pleasure 
point of view. For example, if you take 
duck and add orange to it, that’s a 
wonderful combination. Raspberry 
with chocolate is another pair that we 
tend to like. On the other hand, what 
if you added chocolate to duck—that 
doesn’t sound terribly interesting—or 
raspberry to orange? If you think about 
the pleasure of olfaction and how it is 
acquired, I believe there’s a structure 
to it that we don’t necessarily pay 
attention to. For example, orange is 
initially pleasurable because it’s paired 
with sweet. Duck is initially pleasurable 
because it’s paired with fat. Orange 
odor is not innately liked; you learn to 
like it by pairing it with sweet. And duck 
odor is not innately liked; you learn to 
like it paired with fat. Pairing odors that 
acquired their affect in different ways 
may produce more intense affect.
How does this tie in with 
combinations of tastes—tastes as 
in the gustatory sense?
We know the rules of taste mixture. We 
know what happens if you combine 
sweet, salty, sour, bitter. When you 
add two things together that have a 
common taste, they add. Like sweet 
from saccharin and sweet from sugar; 
they’re going to add. But if you add two different tastes, like sweet from 
sugar and bitter from quinine, they’re 
going to suppress each other. So the 
rule is whenever you add two different 
qualities in taste, they will mutually 
suppress each other. If you think about 
it, this may be a very nice mechanism. 
Think about a really complex Chinese 
sauce where you might use vinegar 
and soy sauce, put a little sugar in, and 
of course ginger for a nice flavor. If they 
added linearly, it would blow the top of 
your head off.
In taste, you get quite powerful mixture 
suppression, which keeps taste in a 
reasonable range. Otherwise, every 
time you had a complex taste, it would 
be much, much more intense, and that 
probably wouldn’t be useful since it’s 
more important in the world to identify 
different objects based on their taste. 
You don’t really want them to add 
linearly. In olfaction, it’s even worse. 
Think about all the different odors you 
can put together in a mixture. If they 
added up linearly, every complicated 
mixture would be incredibly intense 
and every simple smell would be weak. 
That isn’t how it works. In olfaction, 
you get suppression among the 
components, even more powerfully so 
than in taste.
How we perceive and react to food 
sounds very, very broad. There’s so 
much more than smell and taste 
in food, which makes it that much 
more complex.
The love of food is an incredibly 
powerful force in our lives. We know a 
great deal about what makes people 
like food or dislike it. Biology plays a 
relatively small role because most of it is 
experience.all odor affect is learned. Sometimes 
odor is paired with what we consider a 
primary affect, what we call “hardwired.” 
You’re born loving sugar, so you can 
make an odor really liked by pairing it 
with sugar. You can also take something 
like an odor of meat, the odors of things 
that are primarily associated with fats. 
The brain wants you to eat fat because 
you need the calories. The brain notices 
that the fat that it detects in the 
stomach came in with a particular odor. 
And it wants you to eat fat, so it makes 
you like that odor better, because that 
odor was paired with something it 
wants: fat. And that is the mechanism 
of a conditioned preference. This is why 
experimental psychology has so much 
to say about why we like certain foods. 
It’s worked out the system; there are 
rules to it. 
If you wanted to have someone 
take greater pleasure in a food, how 
would you do that?
Evaluative conditioning studies the 
transfer of affect from one stimulus 
to another. Olfaction is particularly 
interesting since we get so much 
transfer of affect with smell. You want 
to make somebody like a new dish? 
Pair the odor of that food with a really 
pleasant situation, like eating with 
somebody they really like. Later on, 
they’ll like the new dish more because 
they first had it with somebody that 
they liked.
This was an exam question I used 
to use when I was teaching a food 
behavior course. I’d ask the students, 
“You are a chemist and you’ve just 
invented a new odor that’s never 
been on the earth before.” And that’s 
possible. “Now, you want your new 
odor to be picked by the president of 
the company for promotion. How do 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 88Shopping for Flavor
Good flavor starts  with quality ingredients. A 
perfect peach, sliced and served on a plate, can 
delight, but if a peach has no real smell and 
feels like it would be better suited for a game 
of baseball, there’s little chance that it will be 
particularly appealing. Here are a few tips for 
shopping for flavor.
Use all your senses.  When it comes to detecting 
quality, your nose, eyes, and hands are great 
tools. Fruits should smell fragrant, fish should 
have little or no smell, and meats should smell 
mild and perhaps a little gamey, but never bad. 
Melons should smell sweet, but not too sweet 
(overripe!). Color and texture are important, too; 
pay attention to surfaces. The way fruits like 
peaches and pears yield when given a firm, gentle 
squeeze can tell you if they’re premature, ready, 
or goners.
Know your ingredients.  Your senses won’t always 
guide you. Some fruits will continue to ripen after 
they’re picked based on the presence of ethylene 
gas (see page 119 for a list), which is why greenish 
bananas can be a fine purchase. But ripening 
isn’t the same thing as flavor—a ripe fruit has 
a desired texture and sugar-to-starch ratio, but 
flavor compounds may still be scarce, as tomato 
aficionados know.
Stagger purchases.  Smart shopping and storage 
can determine when fruit will be ripe. Instead 
of snagging one bunch of bananas, pick half a 
bunch that’s riper and another half that’s greener 
so as to stagger when they ripen. With ethylene-
ripening fruits like bananas and peaches, you 
can also store some of them in a paper bag to trap 
ethylene gas and speed up their ripening.Substitute instead of compromising.  You’re 
better off substituting something that holds the 
promise of packing a wallop of flavor than using a 
low-quality version of a specified ingredient. 
Understand seasonality.  Grocery stores have 
existed for about a century, and only in the past 
few decades has a wide variety of fresh fruit and 
veggies been available year-round. But different 
produce has different growing seasons, and off-
peak produce just won’t be as good. If the pile 
of red things labeled “tomatoes” at your grocery 
store were picked before they were mature, the 
flavor compounds won’t be the delicious ones 
created upon maturation and the tomatoes won’t 
have an enjoyable flavor profile. If you can’t get 
great fresh tomatoes, you’re better off with good 
canned ones, picked and packed at the height 
of tomato season—plus, canned and frozen 
ingredients are less likely to go to waste.
Beware of marketing.  We like to think we’re 
masters of our destiny, but marketers will tell you 
otherwise. Packages with lots of green coloring 
seem healthier, but unless you’re eating the label, 
the food won’t necessarily taste any different. 
Companies pay for prime shelf placement, so look 
toward upper and lower shelves for alternative 
products that aren’t spending as much of their 
budget on marketing. And beware of impulse buys 
on the journey to the back of the store—there’s a 
reason the dairy section is there! Almost everyone 
has a dairy item on their grocery list, and stores 
know placing that section in the back creates lots 
of less-than-ideal impulse buys along the way. Use 
a grocery list and leave the kids at home. (Fun 
fact: ever notice that the layout of most stores 
has you travel counterclockwise? This leaves your 
right hand free to grab items as you push the cart 
with your left hand.)Smell, the Olfactory Sense 89Smell, the Olfactory Sense
Smell is simple in the abstract and complicated in the details. In the abstract, smells lead 
us toward the desirable and steer us away from the unsafe. But smell does this in a much 
broader context than food. Choosing whom to mate with? Helping infants identify their 
mothers? Helping me figure out if that worn-once shirt can be safely worn again? All of 
these things rely on our sense of smell, formally called olfaction , and the complication in 
olfaction is the number of roles that it has evolved to play.
While the sensation of taste is limited to a handful of attributes, smell is a cornucopia of 
data. We’re wired to detect around 360 distinct attributes and are able to discern and 
remember over 10,000 aromas. Add in intensity aspects, and we can discriminate between 
a trillion different possibilities. Our sensitivity is incredible, too. The human nose can detect 
some compounds below the order of one part per trillion. To put that in perspective, it’d 
be like being able to spot a single grain of rice while viewing all of Manhattan from space. 
Without smell, the flavors of foods would be limited to a handful of basic tastes and life at 
the dinner table would be a lot more boring.
How we sense smell is a fascinating topic, and one that’s only relatively recently understood. 
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded in 2004 to two researchers, Richard 
Axel and Linda Buck, for their work in discovering the mechanism by which we sense smells. 
Like our sense of taste, our sense of smell is based on receptor cells being activated by 
chemical compounds. In smell, these compounds are called odorants , and they activate 
chemoreceptor cells in our noses. But there are many more details to the story of smell.
At first glance, smell and taste receptor cells work in similar ways. As in taste, odor receptor 
cells are built to detect exactly one attribute, and each receptor cell is encoded by exactly 
one odorant receptor gene. Just as “sweet!” taste receptors can be triggered by different 
compounds—sucrose, fructose, saccharine—different compounds can trigger any given smell 
receptor. In the case of olfaction, the receptor cells are located in the nasal cavity and respond 
to volatile compounds —chemicals that evaporate and can be suspended in air such that they 
pass through the nasal cavity, where the odor receptor cells have a chance to detect them.
Where things get more complicated in smell is in the variety of odor receptor 
cells and how they activate in groups. Unlike taste, where there are a handful 
of easily named sensations, smell has many, many more possible sensations. 
We use words like musty , floral , or lemony  to describe categories of common 
sensations, but these sensations don’t come from any one odor receptor. 
Smell is complicated for this one remarkable fact: a single compound 
activates multiple odor receptors, and the combination of odor receptors 
that are triggered is what we register as a smell. Layer on a second critical 
fact—that aromas, from flowers to coffee, are based on mixtures of 
compounds—and you can see why smell is so complex. 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 90From a biological point of view, a tastant is like a single note being played on a piano and 
an odorant is like a neurological chord. In taste, we register a sensation based on one taste 
receptor cell firing off; in smell, we register an odorant based on the combination of 
olfactory receptor cells that fire off. A compound like vanillin, the molecule that gives vanilla 
most of its aroma, will trigger multiple olfactory receptor cells, and our brain registers that 
combination as “vanilla-like. ” Regular vanilla, in its full glory, is based on a handful of 
odorants from the vanilla bean, and we detect all of those in one pass, like many different 
chords being played at the same time, for a symphony that registers “vanilla!”
This also explains what happens if you’ve ever experienced a 
partial whiff of an odor and misidentified it. When some of the 
“notes” are missing, your brain’s pattern-matching machinery 
goes to work and finds its best guess. Recently I was walking 
out of my apartment with a stuffed-up nose, which decreased 
my ability to smell. When stepping into the hallway, I smelled 
apricots, but as I walked down the hallway and more odorants hit 
my olfactory system, the smell suddenly switched to that of drying paint. How could I have 
“missmelled” something that different? Only some of the neurons in my stuffed-up nose 
had fired off at first, and the chord they were striking was similar enough to apricots that 
my brain autocompleted it to the nearest thing it could find. (Why apricots? I have no idea.)
Not all compounds can be smelled. For one, compounds have to be volatile —having the 
ability to turn into a vapor through evaporating or boiling. For us to smell something, it has 
to be “in the air. ” When you unwrap a bar of chocolate and smell it, that’s due to compounds 
in the bar of chocolate evaporating and drifting through your nasal cavity. Chocolate is 
loaded with volatile compounds, while your stainless steel spoon has very few, which 
is why you can smell one but not the other. A compound’s volatility also changes with 
temperature. We have a harder time smelling cold foods because temperature partially 
determines a substance’s volatility. (Incidentally, the evaporation of the volatile compounds 
makes the bar of chocolate infinitesimally lighter as time goes on, in case you need an 
excuse to eat that bar of chocolate right now .)
While some foods have naturally strong smells, most raw ingredients keep their odors to 
themselves until disturbed. An unpeeled banana, a head of lettuce, and fresh fish don’t 
have much of an aroma until they’re worked. Cooking adds many odorants by either freeing 
volatile compounds or breaking down nonvolatile compounds into new ones. Even chopping 
up leafy greens and vegetables releases smells, as anyone who’s cut an onion knows. Think 
about the difference in smell before and after you mow a lawn—the “green” grassy smell is 
from compounds that were trapped inside the blades of grass before they were cut.Your brain fills in missing details to 
match up with your historical 
experiences, which is why 
you should identify 
this drawing as an 
incomplete triangle.
Smell, the Olfactory Sense 91It’s not enough for a compound to be volatile and “freed” for us to detect it. Size, shape, 
and something called chirality  all determine whether a molecule is smellable and how. 
Our sense of smell is on par with modern lab equipment, on the hunt for specific types of 
things. We’re capable of distinguishing the difference a few atoms makes—we can smell 
both octane and nonane, only two hydrogen atoms and a single carbon atom apart; the 
primary odorants of pear and banana also differ by only two hydrogens and one carbon.
A real surprise with smell is the impact of chirality, which has to do with whether a molecule 
and its mirror version (the pair are known as enantiomers ) are identical. Your left and right 
hands, for instance, are chiral because they are not identical, even though they have 
the same fundamental shape. Carvone is a classic example in chemistry: the compound 
S-carvone smells of caraway, while its mirror version, R-carvone, smells of spearmint. That’s 
how specific the collection of odor receptor cells that activate can be!
There are general rules of thumb for odors and volatile compounds, understandable to 
chemistry geeks. The families of compounds that contain certain chemical structures 
generally end up smelling similar. One category of compounds, call esters, are classically 
thought of as having fruity aromas. Another category, amines, smell stinky and rotting, like 
week-old raw fish, with cadaverine and putrescine being two of the better-known odors. 
And another group, aldehydes, tend to smell green or plantlike. This commonality supports 
the theory that part of smell detection stems from receptors that activate based on parts of 
a volatile compound’s chemical structure.
While smelling a single compound won’t bring the entire aroma of something like cut grass, 
some compounds are similar enough that flavor chemists can use a handful of them (in 
the case of grass, hexenal, hexenyl acetate, and methanol) to trick our brains into thinking 
we’re smelling the real thing. Artificial scents—used in products from laundry detergent 
to candies—often cost less, can be more stable chemically than the original scents, and 
can even be safer (“natural” can have natural toxins). Artificial vanilla extract, for example, 
generally contains just vanillin, which happens to be the most common chemical in vanilla. 
Although the artificial stuff is missing all the other compounds from vanilla, we still register 
it as vanilla and generally find it to be enjoyable.
As you can see, the chemistry aspects of smell are complicated in their details, and we 
haven’t even touched on individual differences in how we detect odors! Here are a few 
differences in smell that you might want to consider, especially when cooking for others:
Genetic differences.  Just as there are genetic differences in taste, there are genetic 
differences in smell. The simplest example is cilantro: to some, it registers as dish soap and 
is disgusting; to others, it’s a pleasant addition to a meal. If you’re a cilantro hater, you’re in 
good company: Julia Child hated it too. We know cilantro aversion is due to a slight genetic 
variation (search for rs72921001 online); about 1 in 10 of us has it, and that number is 
slightly higher for those of European ancestry and slightly lower for those of Asian ancestry. D-Carvone  Nonane Octane R-CarvoneO
HO
H Octane
D-Carvone  Nonane Octane R-CarvoneO
HO
H Nonane
D-Carvone  Nonane Octane R-CarvoneO
HO
H
R-carvoneD-Carvone  Nonane Octane R-CarvoneO
HO
H
S-carvone
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 92
Threshold differences.  Other physiological differences are known to exist. Females 
have about 50% more neuronal connections in the olfactory bulb than males, increasing 
their ability to detect odors. Some people are much more sensitive to smells than others, 
presumably for genetic reasons. These differences mean that there are variations in the 
minimum thresholds necessary for various odorants to register. Because aromas are 
combinations of odorants, and different aromas have overlaps, if I’m capable of detecting 
all the odorants in the aroma but you only smell a subset, I might smell floral lilies and you 
might smell something almost fecal-like.
Age-related changes.  Like eyesight and hearing, our sense of smell begins to deteriorate 
sometime in our thirties and starts to fall off faster once we reach our sixties. It’s a slow 
decline, and unlike hearing and eyesight, is hard to notice as it changes, but the loss does 
impact our enjoyment of food to some degree.
Crossover. The senses of taste and smell aren’t completely 
isolated from each other. Odorants can change how we 
perceive the basic tastes. Vanilla aroma, for example, will 
increase how sweet something tastes. Fruits like blueberries 
are “sweeter” than strawberries, in the sense that blueberries 
have more sugar, but the odors in strawberries cause us to 
perceive them as sweeter instead. Experiments have shown 
that smelling sweet foods like caramel and then sipping water 
causes us to taste it as sweet.
Olfactory fatigue.  Be grateful for olfactory fatigue; without it, you’d constantly smell whatever 
background smells exist in your home or while you’re out and about. Smells begin to fade into 
the background after a few minutes, presumably as the brain tunes them out. Coffee beans at 
the perfume counter are supposedly used to reset fatigue, but research doesn’t back this up as 
being effective—well, at least not for resetting the nose (but perhaps your wallet?).
What’s the difference between artificial and natural vanilla extract? 
In the United States, natural vanilla extract must be made from vanilla beans 
(~10.5% by weight) in a base that’s at least 35% ethyl alcohol, while artificial vanilla extract is based on synthesizing the chemical compound vanillin, which is responsible for vanilla’s primary aroma.
Depending upon manufacturing, artificial and natural extracts can be chemically 
indistinguishable, although what you see in the store usually has some differences.  Artificial vanilla extract can have other compounds (e.g., acetovanillone) that change the extract’s odor. Some of these other compounds are described as “more vanilla than vanilla”—they register as stronger odors—so artificial extract can seem stronger than a vanilla bean–derived one. 
Just like we hear in stereo, it appears that 
we smell in stereo: we use our left and right 
nostrils independently. Researchers at the 
University of California, Berkeley, have found 
that with one nostril plugged up, we have 
a much harder time tracking scents, due to 
lack of “internostril communication.”
Smell, the Olfactory Sense 93
Describing Smells
Unlike with tastes, where everyday language makes it easy to describe a sensation such as 
“salty, ” describing smells can be a challenge. We don’t have common language to describe 
strawberries other than “strawberry-like”—which is great if you’ve had strawberries, but 
how would you describe a durian fruit? Coffee roasters, winemakers, and cheesemongers all 
have their industry-specific odor descriptions, but it’s the flavor chemists who really know 
how to talk about smell.
Descriptive taxonomies apply labels to odors as a way of  classifying and grouping foods. 
The simplest descriptive taxonomy, from the 1950s by J. E. Amoore, proposes just seven 
primary odors: camphoric (like mothballs),  ethereal (like cleaning fluid), floral (like roses), 
musky  (like aftershave), pepperminty, pungent (like acetic acid in vinegar), and putrid (like 
rotten eggs). Small taxonomies like this suffer from disagreement—what do the definitions 
mean? If I were to smell chocolate, I’d have no idea how to categorize it.
More modern descriptive taxonomies use larger vocabularies and are used by trained 
assessors. One of the more common ones is the American Society for Testing and Materials’s 
Atlas of Odor Character Profiles – DS61 , by Andrew Dravnieks. While not all of the terms 
included are pleasant or even related to food, it’s certainly a diverse set, which is useful in 
thinking about smells. The full atlas includes hundreds of volatile compounds associated 
with the various terms. And, with 146 terms, Dravnieks’s list provides enough granularity to 
begin to form a meaningful model for odors.
Another label-based classification system, Allured’s Perfumer’s Compendium , is used by 
the perfume industry, the fine folks responsible for the smells of products from laundry 
detergent to toothpaste. Think that new car smell is accidental? Trained employees smell 
the materials that go into the interior of a new car to make sure that it smells just right. 
(To quote The Matrix : “You think that’s air you’re breathing now?”) Allured’s taxonomy uses 
more descriptive and narrow scents—familiar items such as banana, peach, and pear—but 
also specific items like hyacinth, patchouli, and muguet (lily of the valley), making it less 
useful to the layperson.
Descriptive taxonomies are by no means perfect. For example, both lemon and orange 
are classified as “fruity/citrus” in Dravnieks’s list. Descriptive taxonomies allow for some 
comparison of odors, but they’re not a chemical analysis, where the presence and quantities 
of various compounds are measured. Still, they’re fun to peruse and give you a real sense 
of how much better we could talk about smell if we shared a common vocabulary. Even 
with such a list, describing smells is more of a literary exercise than a scientific one. One 
sommelier friend, tired of being asked to describe wine to customers, finally flipped out and 
said, “If kittens could fart rainbows, it would smell like this. ”
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 94Atlas of Odor Character Profiles
These 146 odor terms, categorized by common source, are from an American Society for Testing and 
Materials standards document by Andrew Dravnieks. The list provides a broad framework for thinking about 
odors. If you’re heading out on a date and want to impress, this list is a pretty good starting point for 
describing aromas (this cheese…it smells like dirty linen!).
Common Sweet, fragrant, perfumy, floral, cologne, aromatic, musky, incense, bitter, stale, sweaty, 
light, heavy, cool/cooling, warm
Foul Fermented/rotten fruit, sickening, rancid, putrid/foul/decayed, dead animal, mouselike
General foods Buttery (fresh), caramel, chocolate, molasses, honey, peanut butter, soupy, beer, cheesy, 
eggs (fresh), raisins, popcorn, fried chicken, bakery/fresh bread, coffee
Meats Meat seasoning, animal, fish, kippery/smoked fish, blood/raw meat, meat/cooked good, 
oily/fatty
Fruits Cherry/berry, strawberry, peach, pear, pineapple, grapefruit, grape juice, apple, 
cantaloupe, orange, lemon, banana, coconut, fruity/citrus, fruity/other
Vegetables Fresh vegetables, garlic/onion, mushroom, raw cucumber, raw potato, bean, green 
pepper, sauerkraut, celery, cooked vegetables
Spices Almond, cinnamon, vanilla, anise/licorice, clove, maple syrup, dill, caraway, minty/
peppermint, nut/walnut, eucalyptus, malt, yeast, black pepper, tea leaves, spicy
Body Dirty linen, sour milk, sewer, fecal/manure, urine, cat urine, seminal/like sperm
Materials Dry/powdery, chalky, cork, cardboard, wet paper, wet wool/wet dog, rubbery/new, tar, 
leather, rope, metallic, burnt/smoky, burnt paper, burnt candle, burnt rubber, burnt milk, 
creosote, sooty, fresh tobacco smoke, stale tobacco smoke
Chemicals Sharp/pungent/acid, sour/acid/vinegar, ammonia, camphor, gasoline/solvent, alcohol, 
kerosene, household gas, chemical, turpentine/pine oil, varnish, paint, sulfidic, soapy, 
medicinal, disinfectant/carbolic, ether/anesthetic, cleaning fluid/Carbona, mothballs, nail 
polish remover
Outdoors Hay, grainy, herbal/cut grass, crushed weed, crushed grass, woody/resinous, bark/birch, 
musty/earthy, moldy, cedarwood, oakwood/cognac, rose, geranium leaves, violets, 
lavender, laurel leaves
Wondering why “sweet” appears as an odor term? A 
sweet smell isn’t the same thing as a sweet taste; 
it’s a matter of linguistics. Sweet odors are related 
to alcohol-based odorants released in sweet fruit.
REPRINTED, WITH PERMISSION, FROM DS61 ATLAS OF ODOR CHARACTER PROFILES,  
COPYRIGHT ASTM INTERNATIONAL, 100 BARR HARBOR DRIVE, WEST CONSHOHOCKEN, PA, 19428Smell, the Olfactory Sense 95Flavor chemists use databases of odorants with descriptive odor terms. For 
example, Flavornet ( http://www.flavornet.org ), created by two researchers at 
Cornell (Terry Acree and Heinrich Arn), describes some 700+ chemical odorants 
detectable by the human nose. Listing compounds such as citronellyl valerate  
(smells like honey or rose; used in drinks, candies, and ice cream), the database is 
useful for generating certain flavors artificially—what compounds smell like X?
How Does Flying Impact Taste and Smell?
Because our sense of smell is based on volatile compounds wafting through our nasal 
cavity, it follows that changes in air pressure will change our sense of smell. At lower 
pressure, two things happen: volatile compounds evaporate more easily (meaning 
more compounds are available for detection), and the amount of air in a given volume 
decreases (so we have less opportunity to detect those compounds).
To find out what happens, who better to ask than the folks preparing airline food? I 
called up Stephen Parkerson, a chef at Flying Food Group, one company that prepares 
meals for many of the major United States airlines. Here’s what he says about how the 
taste of food at altitude changes.
When you’re up in the air, the lack of humidity, which is right around what you 
would have in a desert, affects your mucus and taste buds. At altitude, you lose 
about 30% of your taste when it comes to sweet and salty. Something that you might 
have on the ground that you would think would be perfectly seasoned basically 
tastes bland when you get at 30,000 feet. The exception to this is umami [savory 
taste], which really comes through with altitude. 
We try to compensate for lack of flavor at altitude. If we’re making something like 
green beans, like blanched haricots verts , we double the amount of salt in the water 
when blanching them. We don’t necessarily have a ratio or an equation that we use. 
It’s like working at a restaurant, seasoning a dish, knowing the line to take it to. We 
know that line for the airline as well. An airline dish that you might taste down here 
on the ground is going to be salty or almost to the point of too much flavor, but then 
when you get in the air, it tastes just like you’d be eating at your dinner table.
The next time you fly, try tasting some food on the flight and then tasting the same 
thing when you’re back down on the ground. You may be surprised at the difference in 
intensity of flavors!
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 96Mock Apple Pie
If you’ve never made it, mock apple pie is one of those surprises that can fool an 
unsuspecting eater. Made with crackers instead of apples, it has a similar texture to the real 
thing, and the sugar and spices are convincing enough—adding the sweetness, sourness, and 
flavors associated with apple pie—that you can hoodwink someone who’s familiar with the 
real thing into thinking that’s what they’re eating. It’s a great example of how the sensation 
from a combination of odors, combined with expectation, can trick the brain.
Line a pie pan with pie dough —see page 259 for a double-crust recipe, or cheat and 
buy a commercially prepared one, making sure to get a double crust (one that has a 
second part for the top of the pie).
In a saucepan, add 1½ cups (360 mL) water , 2 cups (400g) sugar , and 2 teaspoons 
(6g) cream of tartar . Bring the mixture to a boil and then reduce the heat to 
medium, letting the syrup simmer until it is slightly thick, around 235–240°F / 113–
115°C. Remove the pan from the heat and allow it to cool for a few minutes.
To the pan, add 30 (100g) buttery crackers  (Ritz brand is the most commonly used, 
but saltine or soda crackers work too), 1 teaspoon (3g) cinnamon , 1 teaspoon (5 
mL) vanilla , ¼ teaspoon (0.5g) nutmeg , 2½ tablespoons (38 mL) lemon juice , 
and the zest from 1 lemon . Gently stir to mix the ingredients together, but don’t 
overmix—the crackers need to remain in large pieces.
Pour the mixture onto the pie dough. Cut up 2 tablespoons (30g) butter  into small 
cubes and sprinkle them over the filling. Dust the mixture with a few pinches of 
cinnamon.
Place the top crust on the pie and pinch the edges of it into the bottom crust, 
working around the entire circumference. Using either a fork or a sharp 
knife, prick or slice the top crust a dozen times in a regular pattern, 
which will give steam a place to vent while the pie cooks.
Bake the pie in a preheated oven at 425°F / 220°C for 
about 30 minutes, until the crust is golden brown. Serve 
it warm (reheat in the microwave as necessary), ideally à 
la mode  with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.
What is cream of tartar?
It’s mostly potassium bitartrate, originally a byproduct of making wine. It also has a sour 
taste, and adds to mock apple pie a lot of the acidic bite that normally comes from 
things like malic acid in real apples. Cream of tartar doesn’t smell like apple—none of 
the odorants are present—but the taste of sourness is about right to fool you.
Smell, the Olfactory Sense 97Chemicals of Common Aromas
Here are a few examples of compounds that naturally give foods their aromas. Notice that some aromas are defined 
by only one compound, while other aromas are complex combinations. Many herbs and 
spices are composed of just a few key volatiles, whereas fruit aromas usually involve 
hundreds of compounds.
An artificial aroma created with exactly the same compounds at the same concentrations 
would be no different from a “natural” one. Artificial extracts often take shortcuts, 
though. For example, an artificial strawberry flavoring created using only three or four 
of the most common odorants present in strawberries leaves out enough of the 
volatiles that it smells different. If you grew up with artificial strawberry flavors, 
though, you might prefer the synthetic version!
Flavored jellybeans and scratch-and-sniff stickers are just a few products that 
rely on these compounds. Try popping open a package of jellybeans and seeing if 
you can identify some of the odors with the compounds listed here.
Food compound Comment
Almond:
• BenzaldehydePrimary component of bitter almond oil. The next time you’re at the grocery 
store, look at the ingredients label on artificial almond extract! Incidentally, 
artificial almond extract is sometimes perceived as better by tasters; plus, the 
natural stuff has trace amounts of cyanide.
Banana:
• Isoamyl acetateCreating artificial banana extract is one of the classic chemistry lab projects, 
to the annoyance of teachers in adjoining rooms. Isoamyl acetate is also the 
pheromone that honeybees use to signal an attack, so don’t eat overly ripe 
bananas outdoors during the height of bee season!
Black truffle:
• 2,4-dithiapentaneBlack truffle oils commonly use this instead of oil from real truffles. Some chefs 
hate it, presumably because too much begins to smell unpleasant.
Butterlike:
• DiacetylUsed in microwave popcorn and Jelly Belly’s “Buttered Popcorn” flavor, in large 
doses this causes a lung disease called “popcorn lung. ”
Generic “fruity” flavor:
• Hexyl acetateUsed in pink bubble gum and Jelly Belly’s “Tutti Frutti” flavor. It’s also present in 
apple varieties like Golden Delicious.
Generic “green” flavor:
• HexanalDescribed as like fresh-cut grass, this is used in fruity flavors like apple and 
strawberry.
Grapefruit:
• 1-p-menthene-8-thiol
• nootkatoneGrapefruit has at least 126 volatile compounds, but these two seem to be the 
primary  ones. Jelly Belly’s “Grapefruit” flavor likely includes these compounds.
Strawberry-like:
• Diacetyl (buttery)
• Ethyl butanoate (fruity)
• Ethyl hexanoate (fruity)
• Furanone (caramel-like, sweet)
• Hexenal (green)Strawberry has roughly 150 different odorants; only 4 to 6 of them dominate the 
aroma. Good artificial strawberry flavors include more of them; less convincing 
ones will use only a few. This is why artificial fruit flavors are generally not very 
convincing—it’s not that they can’t be made to be so, but that economically, 
the cost of all the compounds doesn’t justify it  (versus something like artificial 
almond extract that depends on only one compound).Hexenal and hexanal differ by 
only two hydrogen atoms. They 
both exist in nature and smell 
the same (“green”), and illustrate 
that similar compounds can 
have no difference in odor.hexanalhexenalO
O
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 98What Is Flavor?
Flavor is a Jedi  trick of the mind, a combination of the gustatory sense of taste and the 
olfactory sense of smell that your brain fuses into a new sensation. To give you an idea of 
just how clever your brain is about flavor, consider this: your brain detects odors differently 
based on whether you are breathing in or out. This is crazy! It’s like saying swiping your 
hand left to right on a cold countertop causes you to feel temperatures differently than 
swiping right to left. Our brains are wired to process smell signals in two different ways; 
flavor uses the second way.
Some definitions will make this easier to discuss. Orthonasal olfaction  is defined as what 
your nose detects from sniffing something that exists in the world. Sniffing a rose, unless 
you’re also chewing it, uses the orthonasal route for smell. Retronasal olfaction  is what your 
nose detects in the foods you eat when air is taken in from the mouth and circulated up 
to your nasal cavity. Even if you don’t notice it happening, it is! Try chewing food with your 
nose pinched: cut off the airflow, and poof, the flavor sensation’s gone.
To unravel this trick of the brain, a researcher, Paul Rozin, gave subjects unfamiliar fruit 
juices and soups via the orthonasal route—“Here, sniff this; remember this odor”—and 
then gave the foods to the subjects again via the retronasal route (through a plastic 
tube), asking them to identify the previously remembered odor. They did horribly. Same 
compound, same sensory apparatus, completely different experience. As I promised, 
smell is simple in the abstract but complicated in the details, so it follows that flavor is no 
different.
From a practical perspective, which flavors you’ll like or dislike is a matter of 
exposure and preference. Rozin started studying the orthonasal and retronasal 
issue when stumped by stinky cheeses—how is it that we have a different 
experience of flavor for something that smells disgusting? There’s a lot 
that psychologists and physiologists are still exploring. Fortunately, 
you needn’t be one to cook a good meal. When working with 
food, keep in mind that flavor is a specific combination of the 
two senses of taste and smell, but not a straightforward 
summation of the two. Taste the food to adjust its 
flavor before serving it! Smelling alone isn’t enough.
Here are some tips for great flavor when cooking:
What Is Flavor? 99Chew!  Admittedly an odd suggestion for good flavor, chewing food crushes, mixes, and 
kicks up a bunch of compounds for your olfactory system to detect, adding smells that 
fold into flavor sensation. Remember, for a compound to activate an odor receptor, it has 
to be present at the point of detection. This raises the question: does chewing food with 
your mouth open lead to a different flavor experience? (If animals always chew with their 
mouths open…)
Use fresh herbs.  Most  dried herbs have weaker flavor because the volatile oils that are 
responsible for the aromas oxidize and break down, meaning that the dry herbs are a pale 
substitute. Dried herbs have their place, though; it makes sense to use them in the dead of 
winter when annual plants like basil aren’t in season. Store dry herbs in a cool, dark place 
(not above the stove!) to limit their exposure to heat and light, which contribute to the 
breakdown of organic compounds in spices.
Grind your own spices.  Don’t used preground black pepper; it loses much of its flavor 
over time as many of the volatile compounds change. Fresh-grated nutmeg is also much 
stronger than preground nutmeg. The aromatics in a preground spice will have had time 
to either hydrate or oxidize and disperse, resulting in flavor changes. Most dried spices 
also benefit from being bloomed —cooked in oil or a dry skillet under moderate but not 
scorching heat—as a way of releasing their volatile chemicals without breaking them down.
Don’t discount frozen ingredients.  Commercially frozen vegetables and fruits are 
convenient and work fine in some dishes. Freezing produce right when it is harvested 
has advantages: nutritional breakdown is halted, and the frozen item is from the peak of 
the season with maximal flavor (whereas the fresh version in your store may have been 
harvested early or late). Frozen produce is especially useful if you’re cooking for just 
yourself: you can pull out a single portion as needed. Want to freeze your own crop or a 
surplus from a CSA (community-supported agriculture) food share? See page 365 for how 
to use dry ice. (Freezing in your home freezer takes too long and leads to mushy veggies.)
Use alcohol in cooking.  My favorite restaurant in San Francisco uses kirschwasser in its fruit 
soufflés, and adding a splash of wine in sauces or to deglaze a pan to make a quick sauce is 
standard practice. Using alcohol changes flavors because of its chemistry: it takes the place 
of water molecules normally attached to compounds, resulting in lighter molecules that are 
more likely to evaporate, and with higher evaporation rates there are more volatiles for your 
nose to detect.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 100Taste Aversions
My friend Dawn hates the taste of eggs. As a little kid, she ate eggs that had been 
cooked in burnt butter. Her brain linked the revolting acrid taste of the burnt butter 
with the taste of eggs, and to this day that link is stuck in the basal parts of her 
brain to the point that she can’t eat eggs. A taste aversion —a strong dislike for a food, 
but not one based on an innate biological preference—typically stems from prior bad 
experiences with food, often occurring in childhood like Dawn’s burnt-butter eggs 
experience. A foodborne illess is a common cause.
Taste aversions are fascinating because they’re entirely learned associations. The 
food that triggers the illness is correctly identified only part of the time. Typically, 
the blame is pinned on the most unfamiliar thing in a meal, known as sauce 
Béarnaise syndrome . Sometimes the illness isn’t even food-related, but a negative 
association is still learned and becomes tied to the suspected culprit. This type of 
conditioned taste aversion is known as the  Garcia effect , named for psychologist 
John Garcia, who determined that he could create taste aversions in rats by invoking 
nausea when they were exposed to sweetened water. As further proof that we’re at 
the mercy of our subconscious, consider this: even when we know we’ve misidentified 
the cause of an illness (“It couldn’t be Joanna’s mayonnaise salad—everyone else had 
it and they’re fine!”), an incorrectly associated food aversion will still stick.
Sometimes only a single exposure that results in foodborne illness is all it takes for 
your brain to create the negative association. One of the cleverest examinations of 
taste aversion was done by Carl Gustavson as a grad student stuck at the ABD (all 
but dissertation) point of his PhD. Reasoning that taste aversion could be artificially 
induced, he trained free-ranging coyotes to avoid sheep by leaving (nonlethally) 
poisoned chunks of lamb around for the coyotes to eat. They quickly learned that 
the meat made them ill, and thus “learned” to avoid the sheep. As tempting as it 
may be, I don’t recommend this method for kicking a junk food habit, but it does 
hold an odd appeal.
What can you do to overcome a taste aversion? To start with, you have to be 
willing and open. You may feel that eggs are disgusting, and if you’re unwilling to 
unwire that association, your chances of eating an omelet are rather low. Repeated 
exposures to small quantities of the offending item, in situations where you feel 
comfortable, will eventually remove the association between the food item and 
negative memory (called extinction ). Remember, start with small quantities and use 
consistent repeated exposures in a supported environment. If it’s too much at first, 
try changing some aspects of the food, such as its texture or the cooking technique, 
so that the flavor association isn’t as strong.What Is Flavor? 101coloring and call it cherry, people go, 
“Oh, that’s good cherry Jell-O.” We find 
that changing the way food is plated 
matters. If we put a brownie on a nicer 
china plate instead of a paper plate, 
people are willing to pay almost twice as 
much for it. We even find putting a silly 
piece of garnish on a plate really boosts 
how much people are willing to pay.
Another aspect is how much effort we 
think was put into the food. If we think 
that not very much effort was put into 
the food, we rate it as much lower. We 
also find that if you give something a 
name like “succulent Italian seafood filet,” 
people go, “This is good,” but if you just 
call it “seafood filet,” people like it less.
It sounds like expectations are 
incredibly important. There must 
be a challenge in not setting 
expectations too high?
No, not at all. We have never found that 
it backfires. Let’s say I serve you a steak, 
and go, “Here’s some steak.” You try it 
and go, “That was pretty good, I’d give 
it a 6.” Then I serve a second identical 
steak but say, “I’m going to give you 
the most amazing, incredible steak 
in the world. It was hand-massaged 
by midgets for years, blah blah blah.” 
Where are expectations set? They are 
set high. Then you eat that steak and 
say, “It’s kind of tough and a little bit 
dry. It wasn’t really that good. It’s only 
about a 6.5.” What’s going on here 
is anchoring. Even when you really 
overreach expectations, it doesn’t make 
people say, “It sucks.” They still rate it 
above what they would rate it if you’d 
given them no expectation  at all.Brian Wansink on Expectations, Flavor, and Eating
Brian Wansink is a professor at Cornell 
University, where he studies the way we 
interact with food. He is also the author 
of two books, Mindless Eating (Bantam, 
2007) and  Slim by Design (William 
Morrow, 2014), that examine how we 
make our choices about what we eat.
What things change our 
perceptions of what we think we’re 
smelling and tasting?
The French have an expression that 
says that there’s no accounting for taste. 
It’s certainly not true, other than at the 
very extremes of taste range. People 
are tremendously subjective, to the 
point where our taste buds end up 
being engineered by our expectations. 
If somebody says, “Taste this; it’s bitter,” 
we’re going to say, “It’s bitter!” But if 
someone says, “Hey, this is sort of bland” 
with the same food, we’re gonna go, 
“Yeah, it’s bland.” We find this over and 
over again: the easiest way to change 
people’s taste interpretation is to change 
their taste expectation beforehand.
Where are people getting their 
taste expectations from?
Your visual perception of food will bias 
your taste. We find that if we change 
the color of lemon Jell-O with red food We brought in sales execs who, on 
average, spent over $25,000 a year 
on expense accounts on food. These 
people should know fine dining. We 
gave them Chef Boyardee. We put it on 
a plate, and read them the back of the 
can, something like, “This comes from 
a generations-old recipe from Italy; it’s 
been made more times than can be 
counted.” They rated it better when 
not told it’s Chef Boyardee, at least 
for people who are on huge expense 
accounts. If you grew up never having 
branded products because they cost 
too much, the Chef Boyardee brand 
might give the food a halo.
How does that halo play into our 
expectations?
Brands have a great halo when you 
like the original brand. If you like KC 
Masterpiece Barbecue, and there is 
a cobranded frozen “KC Masterpiece 
Barbecue burgers,” you’re going to go, 
“Oh, that’s gonna be good,” more so than 
if the package just said “Barbecue burgers.” 
This halo can backfire. We looked 
at how a person’s perception of soy 
being in a food contributes to them 
thinking it’s terrible. We gave people 
energy bars. The energy bars had 10 
grams of vegetable protein; it wasn’t 
soy. We changed the label so it said 
either “Contains 10 grams of protein” 
or “Contains 10 grams of soy protein.” 
By planting that first suggestion in 
people’s minds, they’d say, “This is great. 
It’s chocolate-y. It’s got a nice texture.” 
For the soy protein label, they’d say, 
“Doesn’t taste like chocolate. I can’t get 
the taste out of my mouth.” It’s the exact 
same thing. People were tasting what 
they thought they were going to taste.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 102serve and the plate color: 19%. We find it 
when we have people serve peas that are 
either on a green plate or on a yellow plate. 
You want people to eat more peas, right? 
They’re going to serve more peas on a 
green plate than they are on a yellow plate 
because of the contrast. We have people 
serve pudding. They serve more chocolate 
pudding on a dark plate than on a yellow 
plate. They serve more banana pudding 
on a yellow plate than a dark plate.
What are you most in danger of 
overeating? For most people, it’s white 
foods. So you don’t have to have 50 
colored plates, just have darker plates.
Anything else that home cooks 
should know about to make their 
meals more enjoyable?
Turn down the lighting. We find that 
when we turn down lighting, people 
eat slower, and they rate the food 
as better. We did this cool study in a 
fast-food restaurant that was doing a 
reconstruction. We were able to break it 
in half so that one half was fine-dining 
style and the other half was typical 
bright lights and loud music. We found 
that simply turning down the lighting 
led people to eat about a third longer, 
eat about 18% less, and rate the food as 
being a lot better. 
How much of this is based on a 
feeling of it being a fine-dining 
experience? I know that fine 
dining, culturally for Americans, is 
supposed to be dim light.
I think it might be that, but I think it 
might also be priming anxiousness 
and activity and distraction. We had 
a little bit of a disappointment with 
something at home the other day, and 
we had to try to resurrect the night and 
make it special. We said, “We’re gonna 
eat by candlelight, but only candlelight.” 
The girls just loved it. describe it and say, “Zucchini. Do you 
guys know what zucchini is? Do you 
know what it tastes like? Does it taste 
like a cantaloupe?” Just a little bit of 
discussion raises curiosity. It’s going to 
be an adventure to try.
You can also make things more normal 
to try. When my kids wouldn’t eat 
something, I’d say, “Well, if you’re not 
going to eat it, can I?” They go, “Yeah.” 
So I take a bite. I say, “That’s good. That’s 
really good, honey. I like it!” The kid is 
smugly thinking, “Oh, I fooled him.” A 
few minutes later, I’ll reach over and 
take another bite and go, “Yeah, this 
is good. Thanks, honey! You’ll have to 
make more of it.” So all of a sudden, 
the kid is seeing, “Wait a minute. 
You’re taking my stuff!” Kids feel the 
endowment effect just as much as 
adults do. After a few times of doing 
that, it’s like, “Stop taking my stuff, dad.” 
What about things like plate size 
and plate color—how do those 
things impact eating? 
The color thing is really neat. Most people 
want a simple thing, but it’s one step 
removed from being simple. We find 
that color doesn’t matter; it’s the color 
contrast  between what you’re serving 
and the color of your plate that matters.
We had an alumni reunion here at Cornell 
where they got either red or white pasta 
and either red or white plates. We found 
that if you’re serving red-on-red or white-
on-white, you’re going to serve 19% more 
pasta than if you’re serving white-on-red 
or red-on-white. If the contrast is there 
when you’re serving, you go, “Whoa. 
That’s enough.” If the contrast isn’t there, 
you tend to serve until you go, “Whoops, 
a little too much.”
This happens every day and it doesn’t 
matter if it’s healthy or unhealthy food. The 
greater the contrast between what you Is there a health halo, where things 
that are perceived as being healthy 
end up ranking lower in taste studies?
In one of our cafeteria studies with kids, 
we had a vegetable and pasta dish that 
we either labeled as healthy, as fresh, or 
nothing. Simply by labeling something 
healthy made people rate it worse than 
if it was labeled either as fresh or as just 
zucchini pasta. Most people’s perception 
of healthy is that healthy is something 
that they have to do. No one says, “I had 
this incredibly healthy dessert.”
These perceptions of health can almost 
poison your view. I’ve got three little 
girls at home. We never used the word 
“healthy” when we’d give them things, 
and now they like healthy things.
I take it that’s an issue for nutrition 
policy, with perception around 
health of foods?
Yeah, mainly because people in 
nutrition policy aren’t trained as 
behaviorists.
Well, then, what’s the behaviorist’s 
approach for changing the way 
people eat?
First, you make it more convenient 
to eat. Second, you make it more 
attractive. Third, you make it more 
normal to eat. Under those three things, 
there are legions of changes.
Say I want my kids to eat vegetables. Do 
I tell them, “Eat them—they’re healthy 
for you”? No. What I do is this: the first 
thing we bring out at dinnertime is salad 
and vegetables. Everybody gets them, 
and we sit there until we’re done eating 
them. Only then does the pasta and 
chicken come out.  This makes it a whole 
lot more convenient to eat better. 
For attractiveness, say we have zucchini 
as part of dinner. I’ll say, “What are we 
having tonight, honey?” My wife would Inspiration by Exploration 103
Inspiration by Exploration
Unlike our innate preferences with primary tastes, we don’t have innate likings or dislikings 
for most odors. The flavors we enjoy are flavors we’ve learned to enjoy, which is why other 
cultures’ foods can be literally foreign to us. This is also why cultural culinary exploration 
is a fantastic way to learn new flavors! Some of my favorite meals are based on familiar 
ingredients cooked in new combinations, often based in other cuisines. The first time I had 
chicken tagine, a North African dish of stewed chicken, it was both familiar (chicken legs, 
tomatoes, onions) and exotic. (Tagines, by the way, are named for the dish they’re cooked 
in, the combination of ingredients being whatever you have on hand.) The trick to this type 
of flavor inspiration is to learn about flavors and the ingredients that provide them. But how 
do you get that knowledge? Here are a few ways to explore with flavors, geographical and 
otherwise.
Ask about ingredients in foods you’re eating.  Take  time to notice the aromas in the foods 
you are eating, taking note of smells that you don’t recognize. Next time you’re eating out, 
order a dish you’re not familiar with and try to guess its ingredients. If you’re stumped, don’t 
be shy about asking the staff. I remember being served a roasted red pepper soup and being 
completely stumped as to what provided the richness and body (thickness) of the soup. 
Five minutes later, I found myself sitting across from the chef (it was a slow night), who had 
brought me the kitchen’s working copy of the recipe and told me its real secret, Armenian 
sweet red pepper paste. I learned not just about a new type of flavor that day, but also about 
a new technique (toasted French bread puréed into the soup—an old, old trick to thicken 
soups) and the location of a great Armenian grocery store in the neighboring town.
Play “culinary mystery ingredient. ”  Next time you’re at the grocery store, buy one thing you 
like to eat but have never cooked with before. For “intermediate players, ” pick up something 
you’re familiar with but have no idea how to cook. And if you’ve progressed to the “advanced” 
level, choose something that you don’t recognize at all. You’d be surprised at how many foods 
can be unfamiliar in their ingredient form, but once cooked into a meal are familiar, or maybe 
even downright commonplace. Yucca roots? 
Try making yucca fries. Lemongrass and kaffir 
lime leaves? Try making tom yum soup. With 
tens of thousands of items available in the 
average grocery store, you should be able to 
find something new to inspire you.
Mimic flavorings from another dish.  If 
you’re just now learning your way around the 
kitchen and aren’t yet familiar with that many 
recipes, think about the ingredients that go 
into foods you like. Even a simple peanut What people from one culture enjoy can be unpleasant to 
those from another culture. Gourmet Magazine  ran a great 
article (August 2005) about three acclaimed Sichuanese chefs 
from China eating at one of the top restaurants in the United 
States. The flavors didn’t strike chords in the ranges for which 
the chefs had formed much appreciation. Invariably there 
will be some differences between your tastes and those of 
your guests—hopefully you’re not cooking for acclaimed 
Sichuanese chefs!—so don’t be surprised if a combination of 
flavors that you love is merely okay to others.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 104
butter and jelly sandwich can inspire: imagine a grilled chicken skewer coated with a sweet 
jelly and sprinkled with chopped toasted peanuts. Maybe you like your pizza topped with 
onions, tomatoes, and basil. Experiment by using those toppings in a pasta dish or as 
toppings on bread as an appetizer (bruschetta!).
Search online with a list of ingredients already in play.  If you’re improvising a North 
African tagine or a stew using tomatoes, onions, and lamb but aren’t sure what foods and 
spices might round out the flavors, run an online search for those ingredients along with 
the word “recipe” and see what the Internet 
says. Just scanning the titles of pages listed in 
the search results can be enough—in this case, 
coriander, potatoes, and chili powder are a good 
bet.
Use similarity as a good gauge of 
compatibility.  If a recipe calls for A, but B is 
extremely similar, try using B instead and see if 
it works. Kale and chard are both hearty green 
leaves that can be substituted for each other in 
many dishes. Likewise, provolone and mozzarella 
cheese both have mild flavor and share similar 
melting properties, so using one in place of the 
other in foods like omelets makes sense. Similar 
foods aren’t always interchangeable. They each 
have their distinct flavors, and if you attempt to 
recreate a traditional dish with substitutions, you 
won’t faithfully reproduce the original. But if your 
goal is to make an enjoyable dish, experimenting 
with similar ingredients is a great way to see 
where things line up and where they diverge.
Remember to adjust quantities to create 
great flavor.  One of the most important levers 
for flavor isn’t new ingredients, but adjusting 
quantities of existing ones. Lean in and smell 
the dish. Then take a taste. What flavors are out 
of balance? Does it need more of the seasoning 
ingredients? More salt? If it’s dull or flat, would 
adding more of a sour ingredient (lemon juice or 
vinegar) add some brightness?The French Mother Sauces 
Sauces —derived from the Latin “to salt” and 
originally meaning to add seasoning to food—bring 
flavors to meals by conveying a large amount of 
flavorings in a small amount of liquid. Western culture 
has been using them for at least two millennia, and 
they appear in almost all cuisines. Almost all cultures 
have their sauces, with techniques and ingredients 
varying by cuisine. Roast meats are topped with demi-
glace; mac ’n’ cheese relies on a cheese sauce. Mole 
sauce uses cocoa and peppers; pesto is a simple purée 
of basil and pine nuts with garlic and olive oil. Sauces 
appear in desserts, too: crème anglaise (see page 192) 
can be used as a sweet, rich dairy sauce, and fruit 
purées can add color and intense flavor (strain them 
to remove the seeds, and you’ve got coulis ). 
French cuisine is legendary in its use of sauces, so 
we’ll look there for inspiration. The French mother 
sauces  are commonly attributed to Chef Auguste 
Escoffier—“the king of chefs and chef of kings”—
who was one of the most important chefs in Western 
cuisine because of his work in streamlining the 
commercial kitchen, creating sanitation standards, 
and focusing on simplicity in food (“Above all, keep 
it simple!”). Escoffier’s 1903 seminal work, Le Guide 
Culinaire , defines five basic sauces in its first chapter. 
While Escoffier deserves credit for popularizing 
them, most of these sauces are built upon the work 
of another famous French chef, Marie-Antoine 
Carême, who had defined four of them roughly 50 
years earlier (Carême didn’t include hollandaise).Inspiration by Exploration 105Béchamel Sauce, 
a.k.a. White Sauce
If you learn only one of these sauces, it should be Béchamel 
sauce. It’s useful in everything from quick holiday gravies 
to dessert bases. Adding a flavoring ingredient such as 
cheese or mustard turns it into a fantastic sauce.
In a pan, melt 1 tablespoon (15g) butter  over medium 
heat. Stir in 1 tablespoon (9g) flour  and continue 
stirring, making sure to combine the flour and butter 
thoroughly, cooking for several minutes until the 
mixture begins to turn a blond to light brown color 
(this butter–flour combination is called a roux). Add 1 
cup (240 mL) milk , increase the heat to medium-high, 
and stir continuously until the mixture has thickened.
Traditional additions include salt, pepper, and 
nutmeg . Try adding dried thyme , or preheating the 
milk with bay leaves . If you’re anti-butter, you can 
use a half-butter/half-oil mixture.
Like all mother sauces, this recipe can be modified to 
make “daughter” sauces. After making the roux and 
adding the milk, try the following variations.
Mornay sauce (a.k.a. cheese sauce)
This is Béchamel sauce with equal parts of Gruyère and Parmesan 
melted in. Use 1 cup (~100g) of grated cheese for every cup of milk, 
adding the cheese in a third at a time to melt. If you’re not a stickler 
for tradition, almost any cheese that melts well will work.
Bayou sauce
Sauté a large diced onion in the butter, then add a few diced garlic 
cloves and Creole seasoning (roughly equal parts of onion powder, 
garlic powder, oregano, basil, thyme, cayenne pepper, paprika, salt, and 
black pepper). Add the flour and cook the roux until it reaches a dark 
brown color. This is commonly used in Louisiana-style Cajun cooking.
Mustard sauce
This is Béchamel sauce with mustard seed or a spoonful of mustard 
added (try one with whole seeds in it). Mustard sauce can be made 
into a nice cheddar cheese sauce with the addition of cheddar 
cheese and Worcestershire sauce. Or try sautéing some diced onions 
in the butter while making the roux and adding mustard at the end 
for a mustard-onion sauce.Mac ’n’ Cheese
The French mother sauces show up all over 
the place—even mac ’n’ cheese is based on 
a daughter of Béchamel sauce.
Start with a double batch of Béchamel 
sauce . Add and slowly stir until melted:
 1 cup (100g) grated mozzarella
 1 cup (100g) grated cheddar cheese
In a separate pot, bring lightly salted water 
to a rolling boil and cook 2 cups / 250g 
pasta . Use a small pasta, such as elbow, 
fusilli, or penne—something that the sauce 
can cling to. Test for doneness by tasting a 
piece of the pasta. When the pasta is ready, 
strain it and transfer it to the pan with the 
cheese sauce. Stir to combine.
You can stop here for a basic mac ’n’ 
cheese, or spruce it up by mixing in:
 ¼ cup (60g) sautéed onions
 2 slices (15g) bacon, cooked and 
chopped into pieces
  A pinch of cayenne pepper
Transfer the mac ’n’ cheese to a baking 
pan or individual bowls, sprinkle it with 
breadcrumbs and cheese , and broil it 
under medium heat for 2–3 minutes, until 
the bread and cheese begin to brown.
Notes
• You can add more milk to the cheese 
sauce to make it thinner.
• To make your own breadcrumbs, you 
can drop a slice of day-old or toasted 
bread into a food processor or blender 
and pulse it. Or use a knife and chop 
it up into small pieces.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 106Velouté Sauce
Velouté sauce is the  basis for many sauces used on top of more mild-flavored fish and meats. 
If you’re looking to make chicken pot pie, start with a double-crust pie dough (see page 259), 
and then fill it with a combination of diced cooked chicken meat, peas, pearl white onions, 
and carrots tossed in velouté sauce.
Start like you’re making Béchamel: create a blond roux by melting 1 tablespoon 
(15g) butter  in a pan over low heat. Stir in 1 tablespoon (9g) flour  and wait for 
the flour to cook, but not so much that it browns (hence the term blond roux ). Add 1 
cup (240 mL) chicken stock  or other light stock (one that uses raw bones instead of 
roasted bones, such as fish stock or vegetable broth), and cook the mixture until it’s 
thickened.
You can make derivative sauces by adding various ingredients. Here are a few 
suggestions. Note the absence of specific measurements; use this as an opportunity 
to take a guess and adjust the flavors to suit what you like.
Albufera sauce Lemon juice, egg yolk, cream (try on chicken or asparagus)
Bercy sauce Shallots, white wine, lemon juice, parsley (try on fish)
Poulette sauce Mushrooms, parsley, lemon juice (try on chicken)
Aurora sauce Tomato purée; roughly 1 part tomato to 4 parts velouté, plus butter to 
taste (try on ravioli)
Hungarian sauce Onion (diced and sautéed), paprika, white wine (try on meats)
Venetian sauce Tarragon, shallots, chervil (try on mild fishes)
Minestrone Soup
Sauces can also be the base for a soup, as this quick minestrone soup shows. Treat the 
ingredients as suggestions—really, any good vegetables and whatever starches you have 
on hand will work.
Make a double batch of Aurora sauce  (see under Velouté sauce, above). Keeping 
the liquid at a simmer, add in ½ cup (70g) small pasta , such as macaroni or elbow 
pasta. Toss in some diced carrots  and celery , along with herbs such as dried 
oregano  or basil. Cook the soup until the pasta is tender. Season it with salt and 
pepper  to taste.Inspiration by Exploration 107Sauce Tomate
Sauce tomate , French for “tomato sauce,” is similar 
to but not the same as the simple tomato sauces 
we think of today (those would be Italian tomato 
sauces). Escoffier’s original recipe calls for salted 
pork breast; I’m using American bacon (a.k.a. pork 
belly), as it’s easier to find. You can skip the bacon 
and butter and use something like olive oil instead if 
you prefer.
In a saucepan, render 2 slices (~60g) bacon  along 
with 1 tablespoon (15g) butter . Once the fat has 
melted, add 1/3 cup (50g) diced carrots , 1/3 cup 
(50g) diced onions (half a small onion) , and 1 
bay leaf  or 1 sprig of thyme . Cook to soften and 
lightly brown, about 5 minutes, and then add 2 tablespoons (18g) flour  and continue cooking 
the mixture until it’s light brown.
Add 2 pounds (900g) of mashed tomatoes  
and 2 cups (480 mL) of white sauce . Bring the 
sauce to a boil, then reduce it to low heat. Add a 
crushed garlic clove , 1 teaspoon (4g) sugar,  and 
½ teaspoon (3g) salt . Cover the pan and let the 
sauce simmer for an hour or so. (If using an oven-
safe pan, you can also transfer the pan to a 350°F 
/ 180°C oven and bake it, covered.) Run the sauce 
through a strainer to remove the vegetable matter 
and bacon remains, or run it through a blender. 
Add freshly ground black pepper and additional 
salt to taste. 
Chunky 
tomato sauceInstead of straining or blending the cooked sauce, start with finely diced bacon and vegetables, 
cut small enough that they can stay in the finished sauce.
Italian tomato 
sauceFor a more familiar sauce, make the Italian version by leaving out the pork, flour, and white sauce. 
Cook it slightly longer to thicken it. (Escoffier called this sauce a purée of tomatoes.)
Ketchup Skip adding the white sauce. Cook the sauce down to thicken it, and add more sugar to taste. For 
more flavor, add spices like cayenne pepper, chili powder, cinnamon, or paprika.
Vodka sauce Toward  the end of cooking, add ½ cup (120 mL) cream and ½ cup (120 mL) vodka to the sauce, 
and simmer it for a few minutes.
Penne alla Vodka
Making  pasta sauce doesn’t have to be a long, 
drawn-out affair. You can start with a commercial 
version of a French mother sauce and then extend 
it into a derivative sauce, like starting with 
tomato sauce and adding the cream and vodka 
yourself to create vodka sauce. “Dressing up” 
existing commercial products can be a great way to 
experiment with flavors. I know one person who first 
learned to cook by adding simple ingredients like 
bacon or capers to spaghetti sauce!Start with 2 cups (480 mL) tomato sauce  
from either a batch of sauce tomate  (above) or a 
commercially prepared pasta sauce. Optionally 
add a small spoonful of dried oregano . Add ½ cup 
(120 mL) of light cream and 4 tablespoons (60 
mL) vodka . Toss the sauce with 1 pound (~500g) 
cooked penne pasta  and top with freshly grated 
Parmesan cheese .
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 108Hollandaise Sauce
Hollandaise sauce is the most familiar name of the bunch, typically being served on 
top of asparagus or poached eggs (see page 193). It’s also the most science-y of the 
bunch: an emulsion of water and fat, like its derivative sauce, mayonnaise (we’ll cover 
emulsions later; see page 429). If you’re not a traditionalist, try making the daughter 
sauces using mayo instead of hollandaise.
Slice 8 tablespoons (120g) butter  into eight pieces and set aside.
In a saucepan, whisk together 2 large (40g) egg yolks , the juice of 1 large lemon 
(2 tablespoons / 30 mL) , and a pinch of salt . Set the heat to low and whisk the 
mixture continuously until it just begins to thicken, where the sauce is set enough 
that you can see a trail left behind from the whisk on the bottom of the pan. Take 
care not to overheat it, briefly removing the pan from the heat while continuing 
to whisk as necessary. Add one tablespoon (15g) of the butter  at a time into the 
mixture, whisking continuously until it’s completely melted and incorporated before 
adding each of the remaining pats, one by one.
Optionally add a few dashes of cayenne pepper  and freshly ground white pepper . If 
you find the lemon flavor too strong—not a problem on top of asparagus but perhaps 
an issue with eggs Benedict—replace one tablespoon (15 mL) of the lemon juice with 
a tablespoon of water.
Béarnaise sauce Simmer 2  tablespoons (10g) diced fresh tarragon and 2 finely diced 
shallots (2 tablespoons / 20g) in 2 tablespoons (30 mL) champagne 
vinegar or white wine vinegar; add the mixture to the sauce before 
incorporating the butter. Use mint instead of tarragon to make  Paloise 
sauce .
Dijon sauce After cooking the hollandaise, add mustard to taste; this sauce is 
traditionally made with Dijon mustard, which includes white wine instead 
of vinegar. 
Maltaise sauce After cooking the hollandaise, whisk in grated orange zest and a 
tablespoon (15 mL) of orange juice, traditionally using a blood orange.
Noisette sauce Use browned butter (see page 156) instead of regular butter when 
making the sauce.
Sauces like hollandaise are based on emulsions 
that can “break” if the fat and water components 
separate out. Be careful to not overheat the 
ingredients when making hollandaise sauce!
Inspiration by Exploration 109Espagnole Sauce, a.k.a. Brown Sauce
Also called brown sauce, espagnole sauce  is commonly used to make demi-glace for use 
on meats. Espagnole sauce is considered too strong of a flavor to use on its own. It’s 
also much more of a project to make than the other mother sauces, but well worth it to 
understand how restaurants pull off some of their culinary magic.
In a large saucepan, melt 4 tablespoons (60g) butter . (Optionally, substitute a slice 
of bacon for half the butter.)
Add 1/3 cup (50g) diced carrots , 1/3 cup (50g) diced onions (half a small onion) , 
and 1/3 cup (50g) diced celery . Sauté the vegetables until they’re medium brown. 
Add 4 tablespoons (36g) flour  and cook the mixture until the flour turns light 
brown. Add ¼ cup (60g) tomato purée  and 2 quarts (2 liters) basic brown stock  
(for the recipe, see the note on page 350). Brown stock for espagnole sauce was 
traditionally made with roasted veal bones but is now commonly made with chicken 
bones. (Using canned stock will work but is not as good; canned stock is actually 
broth and doesn’t gelatinize, so it won’t have the same mouthfeel. One clever trick to 
address this is to add a packet of unflavored gelatin into the broth before using it.)
Add a bay leaf  and a few sprigs of thyme . Simmer the sauce for 2 hours, reducing 
it down by half to about 1 quart (1 liter). As it simmers, periodically skim any foam 
off the top as needed. Remove the sauce from the heat and allow it to cool, and 
then filter it through a strainer. (Run it through a second time using a lining of 
cheesecloth to separate out smaller particles.)
Sauce Robert Add white wine, onion, and mustard. One of the earliest sauces, this was 
popular in the 1600s but has since been relegated to the historical archives.
Bordelaise 
sauceAdd red wine, shallots, and aromatic herbs. This is traditionally served with 
red meat like filet mignon.
Diable sauce Add cayenne pepper, shallots, and white wine. Diable  is French for “devil, ” 
which tells you how some feel about cayenne pepper.
Piquante sauce Add capers, gherkins, vinegar, and white wine. Try serving this on chicken.
Poivrade sauce 
(a.k.a. pepper 
sauce)Add vinegar and a large spoonful of crushed black peppercorns at the 
end of cooking, simmering the sauce for a few minutes. Take care to not 
overcook the sauce, as the peppercorns will develop a bitter flavor if cooked 
too long.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 110Lydia Walshin is a professional food writer 
who also teaches adults how to cook. I 
spoke with her about how she approaches 
new ingredients. She can be found online 
at http://www.theperfectpantry.com . 
How do you go about learning what 
to do with unfamiliar ingredients?
The best way to learn how to use 
something new is to substitute it in 
something familiar. So, for instance, I 
have a great butternut squash soup 
that I make in the fall and winter. When 
I get a new spice that I think might have 
similar characteristics to something 
in that soup, I start by making a 
substitution. First, I’ll substitute part 
of the ingredient for part of another 
ingredient, and I’ll see how that tastes. 
And then maybe I’ll substitute that 
ingredient entirely.Lydia Walshin on Unfamiliar Ingredients
Using the butternut squash soup as 
an example, my recipe uses curry 
powder, which in itself is a blend of 
many ingredients. Recently I discovered 
an ingredient  called vadouvan , a 
French curry powder. How do I learn 
the way vadouvan behaves? I put it 
into something I already know, and 
I say, if I take half the curry powder 
and substitute it for vadouvan, how 
does that change the taste? And then 
the next time I make it, I substitute 
vadouvan for all of the curry powder, 
and how does that affect the taste?
Once I understand the difference 
between something that’s familiar 
and something that’s unfamiliar, then 
I can take that into other kinds of 
recipes. But if I start with a recipe that I 
don’t necessarily know, and it uses an 
ingredient I don’t know, then I don’t 
know what the ingredient has done in 
the recipe, because I can’t isolate that 
ingredient from the recipe as a whole.Y ou speak of isolating ingredients 
almost like how a programmer would 
isolate one variable at a time to see 
how the system changes. I think a 
lot of us forget to apply that same 
methodological approach to food.
Except that the outcome might not 
be as quantifiable or predictable 
when you’re cooking, but that’s the 
nonscientific part of me saying that 
cooking, to me, is both an art and 
a science. You need to know some 
fundamentals. It only takes one time 
making tomato sauce in a cast iron pan 
to realize that it’s not a good idea from 
a science point of view and from a taste 
point of view—it’s pretty darn awful 
to watch your sauce turn green and 
bubbly. So you need to understand the 
basic fundamentals of science in order 
to cook, but you don’t need to be a 
scientist in order to cook, and you need 
to accept the fact that your outcome 
might be a bit more random than if you 
were sitting in a computer lab.
Vadouvan is a French-inspired spice blend 
with dried onions and shallots. Try making 
your own! See http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/vadouvan/  for a recipe. For Lydia’s 
Vadouvan Butternut Squash Soup recipe, 
see http://cookingforgeeks. com/book/
squashsoup/ .
PHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF LYDIA WALSHINInspiration by Exploration 111Flavorful Ingredients by Culture
Just as different cultures use different ingredients to adjust the basic taste sensations in food (see page 
58), the ingredients used to add smells and aromas also differ. Different flavoring ingredients are available 
in different parts of the world, based on growing climate, geographic differences in plants, and varying 
preferences for aromas. Some of these flavorings also change basic tastes, but as you can see, they’re all very 
aromatic. The next time you’re planning a meal or making a sauce, try consulting this table for inspiration!
Caribbean Allspice,  coconut, cilantro, hot and sweet peppers, 
jerk seasoning (primarily allspice and scotch 
bonnet peppers), lime, molasses, tomatoes
Chinese Bean sprouts, chilies, garlic, green onions, ginger, 
hoisin sauce, mushrooms, sesame oil, soy, star 
anise, szechuan pepper
French Bay leaves, butter, butter, and more butter, chives, 
garlic, parsley, shallots, tarragon, vadouvan
Greek Cucumber,  dill, garlic, lemon, mint, olives, 
oregano, parsley, pine nuts, yogurt
Indian Cardamom seed, cayenne, coriander, cumin, ghee, 
ginger, mustard seed, turmeric, yogurt
Italian Anchovies, balsamic vinegar, basil, citrus zest, 
fennel, garlic, lemon juice, mint, oregano, red 
pepper flakes, rosemary
Japanese Ginger, mirin,  mushrooms, scallions, soy
Latin 
AmericanChilies,  cilantro, garlic, salsas (varying by region), 
sofrito (onions fried with produce and herbs), 
tomatoes
North 
AfricanAlmonds, aniseed, cilantro, cinnamon, cumin, 
dates, ginger, harissa, paprika, preserved lemons, 
saffron, sesame seeds, turmeric
Southeast 
AsianCayenne, coconut, fish sauce, kaffir lime leaves, 
lemon grass, lime, Thai pepper
Spanish Garlic, paprika, sweet and hot peppers, sherry, 
saffron
Turkish Allspice,  cumin, honey, mint, nuts, oregano, 
parsley, paprika, red pepper, thymeBlack pepper, the fruit of a vine originally 
grown in South India, has a long, storied 
history and is used by almost all cultures. 
How the fruit is processed leads to 
different flavors.
White Peppercorns  
are the fully ripened 
fruit that has been 
brined to remove the 
black, outer shell, 
which removes much 
of the spicy kick.
Black peppercorns  
are made by briefly 
boiling and then 
drying partly-ripe fruit.
Dried Green 
Peppercorns  are a 
preserved version of 
the unripe fruit and are 
slightly milder in flavor.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 112Inspiration by Seasonality
There’s something magical about late spring strawberries and fresh summertime corn: 
flavor! It’s no secret that cooking with fresh ingredients brings great flavors to foods. 
Limiting your shopping list to in-season items is a fun way to challenge yourself, and 
because in-season ingredients tend to pack more of a flavor punch, it’s easier to make your 
cooking taste amazing. There’s another perk of using in-season ingredients: they’re 
generally priced lower, based on the laws of supply and demand. Grocery stores have to 
figure out how to sell all those zucchinis when they come up for harvest! 
Next time you’re at the grocery store, take note of what new fruits and vegetables have 
arrived and what is in dwindling supply. Corn on the cob is one of the most seasonal items 
where I live, nearly impossible to get out of season. Other produce, like peaches, is available 
in my local store almost year-round, but rarely delights and usually disappoints. Try this 
cooking challenge for inspiration: treat any food that’s outside its growing season as off-
limits. Peach pie in April? Out. Even if you can get a peach in 
April, it won’t have the same flavor as a mid-summer peach, so 
your pie will invariably taste bland.
Of course, not every item is a seasonal one. Cellar onions, 
storage apples, and pantry goods such as rice, flour, and beans 
are year-round staples. If it’s the dead of winter and there’s a 
foot of snow on the ground (incidentally, not the best time 
to eat out at restaurants specializing in local, organic fare), 
finding fresh produce with good flavor can be a real challenge. 
There’s a reason winter meals in cold climates lean heavily on 
cooking techniques to produce flavors. Classic French winter 
dishes  like cassoulet  (traditionally made with beans and slow-
cooked meats) and coq au vin  (stewed chicken in wine) use 
cellar vegetables and meats from domesticated animals. But 
come summertime? A quickly sautéed fish with fresh greens is 
amazing. I can’t imagine eating a heavy, rich cassoulet in the 
middle of summer, yet in the dead of winter, nothing’s better.
We’re lucky to live in a time with an amazing food supply. Many 
cuisines are defined by seasonality and the history of the associated 
region’s food environment. The 19th century French favored dishes 
like cassoulet and coq au vin  based on their food supply. Cuisines in 
costal parts of the Scandinavian region were constrained by the lack 
of a road system until only a few decades ago, so it’s no surprise that 
modern Nordic cuisine incorporates simple cheeses and preservation 
methods like cured fish while shying away from complex spices.2006
Google Searches for “Peach”
(Users in California vs. Massachusetts)2007 2008 2009MassachusettsCalifornia
2006June 2008 
Salmonella scare
Google Searches for “Tomato”
(Users in California vs. Massachusetts)2007 2008 2009California
Massachusetts  2006
Google Searches for “Peach”
(Users in California vs. Massachusetts)2007 2008 2009MassachusettsCalifornia
2006June 2008 
Salmonella scare
Google Searches for “Tomato”
(Users in California vs. Massachusetts)2007 2008 2009California
Massachusetts  
Where people live and the time of year change 
what they eat: Google Trends data shows search 
volumes for the terms “peach” (top) and “tomato” 
(bottom) for California users and Massachusetts 
users. The growing season in Massachusetts starts 
later and is much shorter than in California.Inspiration by Seasonality 113On the downside, our modern food supply means we’re no longer constrained by seasonal 
ingredients, which makes it harder to learn how to cook well. Shopping at a farmers’ market 
can be a great source for seasonal inspiration and flavorful ingredients that will inspire. 
Consider the seasonal soups on pages 116–118. Buying butternut squash in July is almost 
impossible, and I wouldn’t make gazpacho in winter. Same thing for seasonal salads. A 
summer salad with mozzarella, tomatoes, and basil (see page 114)? Yum. A wintertime 
salad with fennel? A fall harvest salad with toasted pumpkin seeds and sprouted seeds? 
(Guess who’s hungry now, as I write this!) Understanding flavors from the perspective of the 
seasons can be as easy as strolling through the produce aisle and conjuring the inspiration 
by exploration covered in the prior section, if you keep your eyes open to the possibilities.
Best time to
take vacation
to the tropicsHottest part
of yearThanksgiving
Fruits (biologically speaking) VegetablesJan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec
Corn
Gourds
Peaches
Pears
BroccoliApplesRaspberries Raspberries
Blackberries
BlueberriesStrawberries
Tomatoes
Beets
Cabbage Cabbage
Lettuce
Spinach Spinach
Most Herbs (e.g., Mint, Oregano, and Basil)Cherries
Seasonality chart for fruits and vegetables in New England. Fruits have a shorter season 
than vegetables, and only a few vegetables survive past the first frost. Some plants 
can’t tolerate the hottest part of the year; others do best during those times.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 114Fennel, Portobello 
Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad
Fennel bulb, also known as Florence fennel, is a 
cool-weather item, typically harvested in fall or 
early winter, before any serious winter weather. 
This simple salad is a great combination of 
flavors. Make sure to slice everything as thinly as 
possible and to use high-quality Parmesan cheese 
and balsamic vinegar.
Toss in a bowl:
 1 small fennel bulb (100g), sliced thinly
 ½ medium Portobello mushroom (60g), 
sliced thinly
 2 ounces (60g) of Parmesan cheese sliced 
into wide, thin shavings
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil
Serve by transferring a handful of the mix onto 
a plate. Drizzle a small amount of balsamic 
vinegar  on top and optionally sprinkle with 
pomegranate seeds  or toasted pumpkin seeds .
Note
• The best way to separate the seeds out of 
a pomegranate fruit is under water in a 
bowl. Slice the fruit in half, drop the halves 
into a large bowl full of water, and then 
use your fingers to break open the various 
compartments and separate the seeds. The 
fruit’s white, inedible, fleshy part (called the 
mesocarp) will float, while the seeds will sink.Fresh Basil, Tomato, 
and Mozzarella Salad
Fresh basil and tomato 
are best at the peak of 
summertime because 
the compounds that 
give them great flavor 
require warm weather. 
Try this classic combination when you’re able to 
get good tomatoes. (And if you’re adventurous, 
make your own mozzarella cheese; see page 433.)
Toss in a bowl and serve:
 1 cup (180g) sliced tomatoes, about 2 
medium ones
 1 cup (15g) fresh basil leaves, from about 
3 or 4 stems
 ½ cup (100g) mozzarella
 1 tablespoon (15 mL) olive oil
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) balsamic vinegar (or 
more to taste)
  Salt and pepper to taste
Notes
• There’s no wrong ratio of basil to cheese to 
tomato. Hold back some of each ingredient, 
take a look at the resulting salad, and toss in 
more of whatever you think will make it better. 
The only thing to be careful with is the salt; 
once there’s too much in there, it’s hard to fix.
• How to slice the tomatoes and cheese is also 
up to you. Try thick slices of tomato and 
cheese, alternating in layers on the plate. 
Or slice the tomato and cheese into bite-size 
pieces to be served in a bowl.
• Try making this twice, once with 
conventional breeds of tomatoes and a 
second time with heirloom tomatoes, to see 
the difference it makes.
Inspiration by Seasonality 115Environmentally Sound Food Choices
Cooking “within season” is also a great way to 
cook with an eye toward environmental impact, 
but there’s more than seasonality involved in 
making good, environmentally sound food choices. 
How do you know what to buy, though? 
Green vegetables and fruits: lowest impact.  
Let’s start with the good news, with the greenest 
of the green: your veggies. Locally grown veggies, 
sold unpackaged and combined with a minimum of 
transportation, are about as good as you can get for 
the environment, and they’re about as good as you 
can get for yourself. That age-old advice to eat your 
veggies is also great advice for the environment.
Seafood: some impact.  Whether farm-raised or 
wild-caught is better depends upon the species 
of fish, so there’s no good general rule. There are 
issues with both types: some methods of farm 
fishing generate pollutants or allow fish to escape 
and commingle with wild species, while eating 
wild-caught fish contributes to the depletion of 
the ocean’s stocks (and the impact of a global 
collapse in the fisheries from overfishing is a 
very real threat to the food-supply system). The 
biggest contribution you can make—at least on 
the dinner plate—is to avoid wild-caught seafood 
of species that are overfished. The Monterey Bay 
Aquarium runs a great service, Seafood Watch, 
that provides a list of “best,” “okay,” and “avoid” 
species, updated frequently and broken out by 
geographic region. For current recommendations, 
see http://www.seafoodwatch.org .
Red meats: highest impact.  Red meats like 
corn-fed beef are environmentally expensive to 
produce: the cow has to eat, and if she’s fed corn 
(instead of grass), that corn has to be grown, 
harvested, and processed. All this results in a 
higher carbon footprint per pound of slaughtered 
meat than that of smaller animals like chickens. Then there’s the fuel expended in transportation, 
along with the environmental impact of the 
packaging. By some estimates, producing a pound 
of red meat creates, on average, four times the 
greenhouse-gas emissions as a pound of poultry 
or fish. (See Weber and Matthews’s “Food-Miles 
and the Relative Climate Impacts of Food Choices 
in the United States” at http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/foodmiles/ ). Not all red meats are bad, 
though: if that meat came from a locally raised, 
grass-fed cow, she might actually be playing a 
positive role in the environment by converting the 
energy stored in grass into fertilizer (i.e., manure) 
for other organisms to use. As a general rule, 
though, the more legs it has, the “less good” it is 
for the environment. (By this logic, centipedes are 
pure evil…)
What should I do?
Regardless of where you fall on the spectrum of 
local-shopping vegetarian to meat eater delighting 
in a bacon-wrapped slab of corn-fed beef, limiting 
consumption is the best method for helping the 
environment and is also good for your health (not 
to mention your wallet). Choose foods that have a 
lower impact on the environment and be mindful 
of wasted food.
When it comes to animal proteins, current data 
suggests the total impact on the environment of 
consuming fish is less than the impact of eating 
chicken and turkey, which likewise is more 
sustainable than pork, which is in turn better for 
the environment than corn-fed beef. One friend of 
mine follows the “no buy” policy: he happily eats 
it, but won’t buy it. I’ve heard of others following 
variants of the “vegetarian before dinner” diet: 
limiting consumption of meats during the day but 
pigging out at dinner.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 116Springtime Lettuce Soup
Lettuce soup was a  surprise for me, especially as 
I’ve never seen it while eating out. Lettuce soup 
has a succulent taste similar to broccoli soup and 
is somewhat reminiscent of Vichyssoise , a potato, 
leek, and onion soup. If you’ve ever had a CSA 
share (see page 124) and ended up with 8 heads 
of lettuce at the beginning of spring, this soup is a 
great use for them.
In a large saucepan over medium heat, melt 
2 tablespoons (30g) butter or olive oil . Add:
 1 medium (100g) onion, diced
 1 medium (150g) potato, diced
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
Sauté the onion and potato for 5–10 minutes. Add:
 4 cups (~1 liter) chicken or vegetable 
stock 
 2 cloves (5–10g) garlic, diced
 ½ teaspoon (1g) freshly ground black 
pepper
Bring to a simmer and then add:
 1 head (400g) lettuce, leaves torn or cut 
into large strips
You can use other greens—arugula, pea shoots, 
spinach—based on what you have on hand. Stir 
the greens in, cooking a few minutes until they’re 
tender. For a creamier soup, add 1 cup (240 mL) 
whole milk  or ½ cup (120 mL) cream .
Remove the saucepan from the heat and allow it 
to cool for a few minutes. Purée the soup either 
by using an immersion blender or by transferring 
it to a blender and processing it in batches. 
Add salt and pepper  to taste, and optionally 
add other spices, such as coriander or nutmeg . 
Serve either warm (try sprinkling a cheese like 
cheddar  on top) or chilled (top with a spoonful 
or two of sour cream and fresh chives ).Winter White Bean 
and Garlic Soup
In a bowl, soak for several hours or overnight:
 2 cups (400g) dry white beans, such as 
cannellini beans
After soaking them, drain the beans, place 
them in a pot, and fill it with water (try adding 
a few bay leaves  or a sprig of rosemary ). Bring 
the water to a boil and simmer the beans for at 
least 15 minutes. Strain out the water and put 
the beans back in a pot (if using an immersion 
blender) or in the bowl of a food processor.
Add to the pot or bowl with the beans and then 
purée until blended:
 2 cups (480 mL) chicken or vegetable stock
 1 medium (100g) yellow onion, diced and 
sautéed
 3 slices (50g) French bread, coated in olive 
oil and toasted on both sides
 ½ head (25g) garlic, peeled, crushed, and 
sautéed or roasted
  Salt and pepper, to taste
Notes
• Don’t skip boiling the beans. Really. 
One type of protein present in beans—
phytohaemagglutinin—causes extreme 
intestinal distress. The beans need to be boiled 
to denature this protein; cooking them at lower 
temperatures (e.g., in a slow cooker) will not 
denature the protein and actually makes things 
worse. If you’re in a rush, use canned white 
beans; they’ll have already been cooked.
• Variations: try blending some fresh oregano 
into the soup. Toss some bacon chunks on top or 
grate on some Parmesan cheese as well. As with 
many soups, how chunky versus how creamy to 
blend the soup is a personal preference.Inspiration by Seasonality 117Summertime Gazpacho Soup
Gazpacho is a Spanish treasure 
chest of tomatoes and raw 
vegetables, blended together and 
served cold—perfect for warm 
summertime meals. There’s really 
no wrong combination of ingredients, as long as 
they’re all full of flavor.
Purée, using an immersion blender or food 
processor:
 2 large (500g) tomatoes, peeled, with seeds 
removed
Transfer the puréed tomato to a large bowl. Add:
 1 (150g) cucumber, peeled and seeded
 1 cob (125g) corn, grilled or broiled and cut 
off the cob
 1 (100g) red bell pepper, grilled or broiled
 ½ small (30g) red onion, thinly sliced, 
soaked in water, and drained
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil
 2 cloves (5–10g) garlic, minced or pressed 
through a garlic press
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) white wine vinegar or 
champagne vinegar
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
Stir to combine. Adjust salt to taste and add 
ground black pepper  as desired.
Notes
• The weights in this recipe are for the prepared 
ingredients (i.e., after removing seeds, trimming 
stems, or soaking).
• If you prefer a smooth gazpacho, purée all of the 
ingredients at the end. Or add a portion of the 
veggies, purée, and then add the remainder to 
achieve a partly smooth, partly chunky texture. 
It’s all about your preference!• Gazpacho is a dish that relies on fresh ingredients 
that invariably have differences in flavor. There’s 
no mechanical or chemical reason for these 
quantities to be written as they are, so add more 
of this, less of that; whatever you like to suit your 
tastes. Try expanding this recipe to include other 
ingredients such as hot peppers or fresh herbs.
• Grilling or broiling the corn and bell pepper adds 
a smoked flavor to the soup, due to the chemical 
reactions that take place at higher heat, as we’ll 
discuss later in this book. You might find you 
prefer a “raw” version of this soup. Or, if you 
really like the smoky flavor, try adding some 
liquid smoke (see page 403) to amp it up.
Whenever you see a recipe calling for a grilled 
vegetable, you should default to rubbing it with 
a light coating of olive oil before grilling it; this 
will prevent the vegetable from drying out while 
cooking.
How to Peel a Tomato
I have a friend whose boyfriend tried to make 
her a surprise dinner involving tomato soup, but 
he didn’t know how to peel tomatoes. She came 
home to find her guy frantically trying to use a 
vegetable peeler on the tomatoes, to no avail…
To peel tomatoes, drop them in boiling water for 
15–30 seconds, pull them out with tongs or a mesh 
spider, and then just pull the skins off. You can 
cut an “x” shape into the skin before blanching 
the tomatoes, although I find the skin on some 
varieties will pull back 
regardless, as long as the 
water is at a full rolling 
boil. Experiment to see if 
it makes a difference!
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 118Fall Butternut Squash Soup
Fall, with its harvest and bounty of squash and gourds, is my favorite time of year for 
seasonal cooking. Treat this recipe as a starting template and add seasoning and other 
produce as garnish.
Purée in a food processor or with an immersion blender:
 2 cups (~600g) butternut squash, peeled, cubed, and roasted (about 1 medium 
squash)
 2 cups (480 mL) chicken, turkey, or vegetable stock
 1 small (110g) yellow onion, diced and sautéed
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
Notes
• As with the gazpacho recipe, the weights are for the prepared ingredients and only rough 
suggestions. So, prepare each item individually. For the squash, peel and cube it, then 
coat it with olive oil, sprinkle it with salt, and roast it in the oven at a temperature around 
400–425°F / 200 –220°C until it begins to brown. When you go to purée the ingredients, 
hold back some of the squash and some of the stock, taste the purée, and see which you 
think it needs. Want it thicker? Add more squash. Thinner? Add more stock.
• This soup by itself is very basic. Garnish it with whatever else you have on hand that 
you think might go well, such as garlic croutons and bacon. Or top it with a small 
dab of cream, some toasted walnuts, and dried cranberries to give it a feeling of 
Thanksgiving. How about a teaspoon of maple syrup, a few thin slices of beef, and 
some fresh oregano? Chives, sour cream, and cheddar cheese? Why not! Instead of 
purchasing items to follow a recipe exactly, try using leftover ingredients from other 
meals to complement the squash soup.
• If you’re in a rush, you can “jump-start” the squash by 
microwaving it first. Peel and quarter the squash, using 
a spoon to scoop out the seeds. Then, cube the squash 
into 1–2” / 3–5 cm pieces, drop it into a glass baking 
pan that’s both oven and microwave safe, and nuke it 
for 4–5 minutes to partially heat the mass. Remove the 
squash from the microwave, coat it with olive oil and 
a light sprinkling of salt, and roast it in a preheated 
oven until done, about 20–30 minutes. If you’re not in 
a rush, you can skip the peeling step entirely: cut the 
squash in half; scoop out the seeds; add oil and salt; 
roast it for about an hour, cut side down, cooking it 
until the flesh is soft; and use a spoon to scoop it out.
To cut thick gourds such as 
squash and pumpkins, use a 
large chef’s knife and a mallet. 
First, slice off a thin piece of the 
gourd so that it lies flat and 
doesn’t roll, then gently tap the 
knife blade through the gourd.Inspiration by Seasonality 119
Storage Tips for Fresh Produce
Keeping fresh produce tasting great depends on 
preserving flavor and controlling ripening. There 
are two main variables that you should manage: 
storage temperature and ethylene gas exposure.
Storage temperature is the easier variable to 
control. Store ripe, cold-tolerant produce in the 
fridge; keep unripe or cold-susceptible produce 
on the counter or in the pantry. “Chill injury” is 
the industry lingo for damage to food stored too 
cold and typically happens below 50°F (10°C). 
Tropical and subtropical fruits like bananas, citrus, 
cucumbers, mangos, and watermelon should be kept 
out of the fridge for best flavor. Lettuce and most 
herbs are fine in the fridge, with the exception of 
basil, which should be treated like fresh flowers 
(trim the ends off and keep it on the counter in a 
glass with the ends submerged in water).
The second storage variable, ethylene gas, has 
some quirks. Ethylene gas is naturally generated 
by plants, usually the fruiting part, as part of the 
ripening process. Storing one produce item that 
generates ethylene gas next to another produce 
item can speed up how quickly the second item 
ripens, but can also lead to undesirable results, as 
the following list shows.
Regardless of the type of produce, it should be 
picked mature, at a point when its flavors have 
fully developed. Ripening and flavor development 
are two different processes! If produce is picked 
too early, no amount of ethylene gas ripening can 
add good flavor.
Ripen in the Presence of Ethylene Gas
To speed up ripening,  store these in a loosely 
folded paper bag out of direct sunlight, at room 
temperature. Never store unripe fruits in the fridge, 
as the temperature is too low for ethylene gas to 
further their ripening.Apricots, peaches, plums. Ripe fruits will 
be aromatic and will yield slightly to a gentle 
squeeze, at which point you can store them in 
the fridge. Keep unripe stone fruits at room 
temperature; storing them in the refrigerator 
causes chill injury, turning them mealy. Also 
avoid storing unripe stone fruits in direct sunlight 
or in plastic bags, which trap moisture. If you’re 
lucky enough to be gifted pounds and pounds of 
these fruits, either freeze them, make jam (see 
page 419), or dry them (see page 352) before they 
have time to go bad.
Avocados. Ripe fruit will be slightly firm but will 
yield to gentle pressure. Color alone will not tell you 
if the avocado is ripe. Storing cut avocados with the 
pit doesn’t prevent browning, which is due to both 
oxidation and an enzymatic reaction, but does stop 
browning where the pit prevents air from coming 
in contact with the flesh. Prevent air exposure by 
covering the cut edge with plastic wrap, or pouring a 
thin layer of olive oil on top of guacamole.
Bananas. Leave at  room temperature until 
ripe. To prevent further ripening, store in the 
refrigerator—the peel will turn brown, but the 
fruit will not change.
Blueberries. While blueberries do ripen in the 
presence of ethylene, their flavor is not improved 
from this. See upcoming advice for blackberries, 
etc.
Tomatoes. Store at temperatures above 55°F 
/ 13°C. Storing unripe ones in the fridge will 
prevent them from ripening and also affects their 
flavor and texture, although some folks feel fully 
ripened tomatoes don’t suffer much when chilled. 
If the ultimate destination for the tomatoes 
is a sauce, you can also cook them and then 
refrigerate or freeze the sauce.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 120
Potatoes. Keep potatoes in a cool, dry place (but 
not the fridge; the cold will turn them sweet). 
Sunlight can make the skin turn green. If this 
occurs, you must peel off the skin before eating 
them. The green color is due to the presence of 
chlorophyll, which develops at the same time 
that the neurotoxins solanine and chaconine are 
produced. Since most of the nutrients in a potato 
are contained directly below the skin, avoid 
peeling them whenever possible. (You’re unlikely 
to die from the amount of solanine present in 
an average potato that’s gone green, about ~0.4 
mg, but you can still end up with an unpleasant 
digestive tract experience for the better part of a 
day. For more, see http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/solanine/ .)
Unaffected or Negatively Impacted by Ethylene Gas
Store these separately from ethylene-producing 
produce.
Asparagus. Store stalks, with bottoms wrapped in 
a damp paper towel, in the crisper section or the 
coldest part of the fridge. You can also put them 
in a glass or mug, like cut flowers (trim the ends 
first). Eat them as soon as possible because the 
flavor diminishes with time.
Blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries. 
Toss out any moldy or deformed berries. 
Immediately eat any overripe berries. Return 
the other berries to the original container, or 
arrange them (unwashed) in a shallow pan lined 
with paper towels and store them in the fridge. 
To absorb additional moisture, place a paper towel 
on top of the berries. Wash them just prior to use; 
washing before storing them adds moisture that 
aids the growth of mold.
Broccoli, cabbage, collard greens, kale, leeks, 
and Swiss chard. Store in the crisper drawer 
of the refrigerator or in a plastic bag poked 
with holes to allow for any excess moisture and ethylene to escape. Ethylene causes florets and 
leaves to turn yellow.
Carrots. Given a few weeks, ethylene can cause 
carrots to develop a bitter flavor. Break off green 
tops. Rinse carrots, place them in a plastic bag, 
and store them in the crisper section of the 
fridge. Storing carrots in the fridge will preserve 
their flavor, texture, and beta-carotene content. 
Citrus.  Ethylene gas helps shift the color from 
green to yellow (called degreening ) and speeds up 
potential decay, but doesn’t improve the edible 
part. To avoid mold in medium-term storage 
(6–8 weeks), store fruit in resealable bags in the 
produce drawer of your fridge.
Cucumbers. Cucumbers stored in the fridge will 
begin to surface pit and deteriorate after a few 
days. Store them on the countertop but away from 
fruit, as they are sensitive to ethylene.
Garlic. Store in a cool, dark place, but not the 
fridge, where odors will transfer. You can still use 
cloves that have sprouted, but they will not be as 
strong in flavor. The sprouts themselves can be cut 
up like scallions or chives and used in dishes.
Lettuce and salad greens. Check greens bought 
in bunches for insects. Wash the leaves, wrap the 
lettuce in a towel or paper towel, and then store 
it in the fridge in a plastic bag poked with a few 
holes. If you won’t be using the lettuce in the 
next few days, wait to wash the leaves until later, 
as the added moisture can speed up deterioration.
Onions. Ethylene can lead to mold growth. Keep 
onions in a cool, dry space away from bright 
light. Onions do best in an area that allows for air 
circulation. Do not place onions near potatoes, 
because potatoes give off both moisture and 
ethylene, which will cause the onions to spoil 
more quickly. Also, don’t store onions in the 
fridge—they’ll become soft and their flavor will 
spread to other foods.Inspiration by Seasonality 121
Tim Wiechmann and Linda Anctil on Seasonal Inspiration 
Tim Wiechmann is 
the chef and owner 
of T.W. Food in 
Massachusetts.
How do you go 
about planning a 
dish?
I start with the ingredients—they all have 
to be in season. I came up with a dish 
that was made with leftover cheese from 
the Pyrénées. Black cherries and beets are 
in season, so how can I dress up a beet 
salad? In the Pyrénées, they have cherries 
with sheep’s milk cheese. Most of my 
stuff comes from cultural things, from 
traveling all over and having a sound 
grasp on food in Europe. I study what 
people make from all over—they do this 
here, they do that there. And these things 
are done for thousands of years. I try to 
have a knowledge of these things and 
then I just look at my own ingredients 
here, and I draw them together.
My menu is actually really difficult. 
Everything goes through a rigorous, 
precise set of cooking parameters. 
With certain preparations, time 
and temperature are everything. 
Observation is critical, as is getting 
experience in knowing what looks 
good. If you’re cooking an onion, it 
changes color over time. There are 
certain stages where you want to pull 
it because the bitterness increases as 
the caramelization increases. Onions 
in a tall pot will sweat differently than 
onions in wide pot. In a tall pot, they 
release their own water and cook 
evenly because the water doesn’t 
disappear. We have specific pots that 
are good for certain things—sweat the onions in this pot; don’t use that pot—
but a new cook will just grab any pot.
How do you know if something is 
going to work?
You just try. When you start to play the 
piano, you don’t know where the notes 
are. You have to have the technique, then 
you can think about putting the notes 
together. If I hit this note, then I’ll get this 
sound; if I want onions to be sweet, I’ll 
caramelize them. The technique follows 
the knowledge. I keep a log of my own 
recipes and times for each thing. How 
long to put cherries or apples in a bag 
and cook in the water circulator—that 
comes out of experience.
My big thing I always say: “Get into 
it and go for it.” Every time you cook 
something—even if you burn it and it 
goes in the trash—it’s not a failure, it’s 
just: next time I’m not going to burn it.
For Tim’s roasted beet salad recipe, see  
http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/
beetsalad/ . 
Linda Anctil is a 
private chef in 
Connecticut.
How do you think 
about the visual 
experience of 
food?
I approach food as a designer, but 
because it is food, it also has to 
function. Ultimately, it has to taste 
good. Sometimes, I’m inspired by an 
ingredient, a season, a shape, or a 
color, but inspiration can come from 
anywhere. I always try to include an 
element of surprise, whether it’s visual 
or stimulating to other senses.
Nature is a constant source of inspiration 
to me. I went out to the garden to pick 
some sage last winter, and I had the 
scent of conifers from my Christmas 
tree on my gloves. The smells became 
intermingled in my mind and, suddenly, 
conifers became something I could use 
as an herb. It inspired a whole series of 
dishes that I put together using the flavor 
of conifer. I did one where I layered lots 
of different textures and flavors together, 
culminating with my video “The Winter 
Garden.” I think it was probably my most 
abstract or conceptual dish that I’ve 
put together, but it really captured that 
whole feeling of being outside on that 
one day with the ice and the snow and 
the frost and the smell of conifers. I was 
the only one who ate the dish in the end. 
I enjoyed it a lot. It was a very personal 
expression to me.
Do you have any suggestions about 
how to think about presenting food?
Keep an open mind. Pick up a piece of 
fruit and imagine that you were an alien 
on this planet who had never seen it 
before, and experience it through that 
lens. How does it look to you? What does 
it smell like? What does it taste like? What 
can you do with it? Think outside of the 
box and enjoy the journey! You can look 
at any artist or chef’s food, and you’ll 
realize it’s a personal expression of who 
they are. It’s telling a story about that 
person’s experiences. That’s a wonderful 
aspect of cooking.
To watch one of Linda’s videos, see  
http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/
winterdish/ .
PHOTO OF LINDA ANCTIL USED BY PERMISSION OF LINDA ANCTIL.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 122Organic, Local, and Conventional Foods
Seasonality of produce is only one aspect of choosing what to eat. What about 
organic, local, and conventional foods? There are lots of opinions and facts on these 
topics, and often the two get mixed together. Spoiler alert: the science doesn’t back 
up a lot of the commonly held opinions, and there are some deep philosophical issues 
unrelated to the science here.
Organic foods  are those produced following governmental regulations that restrict the 
use of fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, and hormones and require humane treatment 
of animals. US-based food producers must be certified as following the USDA National 
Organic Program (NOP) regulations in order to claim organic status; likewise, businesses 
in the European Union must follow European Commission General Food Law regulations 
and pass annual audits. (As a side note, the EU and US use the same definition of 
organic so that the two regions can cross-ship organic foods.) Because of the current 
higher consumer demand for organic foods, their cost is typically higher: supply hasn’t 
had time to catch up to demand. Organic foods also have a cost burden associated with 
paperwork and certification, so some smaller operations may follow the legal definition 
but opt to not pay for certification, and therefore can’t label their food “organic.”
Local foods have no formal legal definition, but the common lay definition is based 
on how many miles away a food was produced—typically, up to “a few hours’ drive.” 
Food hubs —sites that act as exchanges for local farms and ranches to sell product 
to larger-volume buyers like grocery stores—are quickly becoming common, and are 
strengthening local and regional food systems in fantastic ways. Eating foods produced 
locally has a number of benefits, including supporting the local economy, staying 
“within season,” and connecting to the food supply on a deeper level. (Search online 
for the USDA’s “Know Your Farmer, Know Your Food” site.) The term local is unrelated to 
organic , but to some consumers there is a shared ethos of sustainability, food security, 
and environmentalism. Local doesn’t guarantee these things, though!
Conventional foods  are those not certified for sale under the label organic . They 
must still be grown to acceptable government regulations, of course. Conventional 
food may or may not be local. 
What’s the difference in taste? 
Organic food is viewed by some consumers as being more authentic and has a 
“halo of tasting better.” Taste differences can certainly exist between a head of 
organic romaine lettuce and a conventional one at your local grocery store due to 
microclimate differences or how the produce is handled, but studies that have done 
head-to-head comparisons of identical plant varietals grown conventionally and 
organically have found zero difference in terms of taste. The use of organic pesticides 
over conventional ones does not, in and of itself, lead to taste differences.Inspiration by Seasonality 123Local produce is also often thought to taste better and has a similar “halo” effect. 
For some produce, flavor will deteriorate over time after harvest, so local produce 
may be fresher and taste better. But that’s not necessarily the case. Radishes, for 
example, taste better when grown in hotter climates. If you live in a comparatively 
cooler climate, radishes grown farther away may taste better, and their 
environmental impact can also be lower if locally grown ones rely on hothouses.
If this answer surprises you, consider the power of the placebo effect. If you believe  
that something is going to taste better, then it probably will. Placebo effects in taste 
can be incredibly, incredibly powerful, as the food marketing associations know. But 
the data doesn’t support the beliefs that most consumers have about any perceived 
taste differences.
What about exposure to chemicals? 
Regardless of whether you’re handling conventional or organic food, government 
regulations limit the levels of all types of herbicides and pesticides that are legally 
allowed to be present in the end products. No one should be exposed to pesticides or 
herbicides above certain levels, and this has been a real issue for farm workers. But 
is it an issue for you? The answer is complicated.
Exposure to organic pesticides and herbicides as a category  has not been shown to be 
any safer than exposure to conventional ones. Some chemicals, regardless of type, are 
carcinogenic at sufficient concentration—dosage matters, as chemists like to say. The 
detectable levels of pesticides in our bodies are well below anything approaching toxic. 
To put some numbers to how much we’re being exposed to carcinogenic pesticides in 
conventional foods, consider what Dr. Belitz et al. wrote in Food Chemistry  (Springer, 
2009): “[T]he natural chemicals [in a cup of coffee] that are known carcinogens are 
about equal to a year’s worth of synthetic pesticide residues that are carcinogens.”
Organic products test as having lower levels of pesticides but don’t test as having 
better nutritional value than equivalent conventional products. Individuals who 
consume organic products do test as having lower levels of pesticide residues in their 
blood. But does having a pesticide in your bloodstream at some minimal quantity 
change your overall health or lifespan? The uncertainty here is why many consumers 
buy organic foods (especially, it turns out, new parents). There’s a lot we don’t 
know about long-term chemical interactions between pesticides/herbicides and our 
bodies. We do know that all approved pesticides are essentially safe, in the sense 
that they are well studied. But we don’t know, with 100% certainty, that their long-
term impact is absolutely zero. It’s likely not (how could it be?), but is the impact 
meaningful? It may be unknowable. This is why I consider whether to buy organic or 
conventional products a philosophical question—how do you feel about uncertainty, 
when the scientific community has found very little to suggest there are risks?
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 124How about no chemicals? 
Well, food is chemicals, so presumably anyone asking this means added chemicals 
like pesticides. This may seem like an unnecessary point to make, but I’ve learned 
it’s important! For example, a survey done in 1999 found that one in three 
respondents believed “Ordinary tomatoes don’t have genes, but genetically modified 
ones do.” Given the option, farmers would prefer to not spray any herbicides or 
pesticides on their crops and ranchers would rather not have to use vaccinations or 
drugs: they cost money and take time to use. 
Best bang for buck? 
Whether to shop specifically for foods that are local and/or organic is more of an 
ethical and moral question than a scientific one. There’s a lot more to the spirit 
behind these choices than the nutritional value and taste sensation.
If you want to buy local produce, it’s also generally cheaper: transportation costs 
aren’t as high. Beyond the grocery store, look for a farmers’ market. Farmers’ markets 
are a great way to really understand where your food is coming from and to think 
about cooking and eating seasonally. Plus, your local farmer will thank you. If 
you want to “level up,” see if you can find a nearby CSA (community-supported 
agriculture) share; these are fractional shares where you pay a few hundred dollars 
at the beginning of the growing season and then receive some fraction of the farm’s 
yield and share in the risk (hopefully, not a drought year). They’re as close as you 
can get to your produce without growing it yourself, and a great way to challenge 
yourself in cooking. (What the heck do you do with 10 heads of lettuce? Try lettuce 
soup: see page 116.)
If you want to buy organic but are on a tight budget, here are some general rules of 
thumb for where the biggest differences are in produce. For fruits, if you’re going 
to eat the skin, buy organic. If you’re going to peel them, buying organic appears 
to offer comparatively little difference. For veggies, organic bell pepper, celery, 
kale, and lettuce test as having lower levels of pesticides than their conventional 
counterparts. For animal products high in fat like butter and fatty meats, buy 
organic; a number of pesticides are fat soluble so remain in the end product.
My personal take? Being engaged in where your food comes from and taking time to 
cook for yourself and others is more important than whether your food is organic or 
conventional by the legal definitions.
“Below legally allowed levels” doesn’t mean “100% guaranteed,” regardless of 
whether you’re buying organic or conventional. In the US, the FDA inspects 
less than 1% of imports (as of 2012), and excess pesticide residues have 
been found in some foods imported from abroad when tested by independent 
researchers. Enforcement (and funding for it) needs to be stepped up.Computational Flavor Inspiration 125Computational Flavor Inspiration
Computer, what goes well with Tea, Earl Grey, Hot?
Technology isn’t that far away from being able to answer questions like this, and it’s 
exciting! Imagine opening your fridge door, seeing a few leftover ingredients from a prior 
night’s meal, and tapping a button on a device and saying, “Show recipes that use chicken, 
cilantro, and lemons. ” My current high-tech watch already lets me do this!
What about more inspirational possibilities? Finding recipes that use a handful of ingredients 
is one thing, but what if we could computationally predict new recipes, creating combinations 
that had never been tried before yet delight with flavor? Thanks to a better understanding of 
how flavors work and having enough combined data to comb through, it’s now possible.
There are two main approaches to computational flavor inspiration: co-occurrence of 
ingredients and chemical similarity between ingredients. Both have their advantages and 
disadvantages; more recent research that combines the methods is beginning to bear fruit. 
Computers are really good at comparing lots of numbers, and these methods definitely 
benefit from that. (They’re also really good at doing exactly  what they’re programmed to 
do, not what we necessarily meant  them to do.)
First, a disclaimer: picking pleasing flavors—or at least ones that invoke an emotional 
response or trigger a memory—is somewhere between an art and a science. No scientific 
equation can capture the entire picture, and what you’re craving at any given moment will 
also vary. Still, understanding how “flavor compatibility algorithms” work can provide you 
with a way of organizing your thoughts on food, and the results can be useful for the more 
inquisitive, off-recipe type of cook.
Co-Occurrence of Ingredients
If items A, B, and C go together in one dish; and another dish uses B, C, and D; then there’s 
a decent chance that A might work in the second dish as well. These sorts of transitive 
relationships aren’t guaranteed to work, but they are useful enough that most good cooks use 
them intuitively. Say you like guacamole and know that it commonly contains avocado, garlic, 
onion, lime juice, and cilantro. When tossing together a salad that has similar ingredients—
say, tomato, avocado slices, and onion—it’s reasonable to guess that some coarsely chopped 
cilantro will work well in it, and maybe even some crushed garlic in a vinegar/oil dressing.
What if we took this idea a step further by computationally examining thousands of recipes 
and their ingredients? A few projects and notable books have already done this, but it’s still 
a fun exercise. Snag a few thousand recipes (easy enough for a computer science major like 
myself), run them through something to clean up the data, and voilà ! You’ll have a 
co-occurrence matrix that shows the relative probability that an ingredient shows up with 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 126another. With a few tweaks (normalizing the weights to be 0 to 1; dropping salt, which links 
everything together), the results become almost human readable. (See http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/cooccurrence/  for a .csv file.)
For chocolate, the most common ingredient it’s paired 
with is vanilla (giving it a weight of 1 in the normalized 
co-occurrence matrix). The second most common 
ingredient (in my dataset) is milk (0.320). Walnuts 
(0.243), oil (0.166), cream (0.128), and pecans (0.121) 
are the next four. Hearing this list yields no surprises; 
chocolate is common with vanilla, dairy, and nuts. 
For other ingredients, it can be a boon. What spices 
are typically used with beef? (Black pepper, parsley, 
thyme, bay leaf, oregano, chili.) Or chicken? (Parsley, 
thyme, basil, paprika, cayenne pepper, ginger.) You 
could extend this by collecting different collections of 
recipes—how does ingredient co-occurrence change 
between cultures? (“Computer, adjust recipe to be Tex-
Mex style. ”) Or over time? Imagine the possibilities.
Data is only as useful as the ability to see and act upon 
it, so unless you’re a spreadsheet junkie, something 
more is needed to visualize the data. I’ve hacked 
together a simple interface for clicking through the 
various ingredients (see http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/foodgraph/ ). With time, it’ll become unusable 
(or go offline). There’s an expression in software, “code rot, ” that describes how software 
becomes more buggy and less usable as the systems we use are updated and no longer 
100% backward compatible. See the example image for chocolate to understand what the 
software looks like if you’re unable to load it. 
Chemical Similarity
Many of the compounds that give ingredients their flavors can be measured 
and quantified—assuming you have access to lab equipment that does stuff like 
chromatography! Drop a sample in, separate out the compounds, and compare the results 
to those of known compounds. Okay, okay; this is a gross oversimplification. Maybe some 
day in the distant future my watch could do it, but for now it’s not easy; and even the best 
lab equipment is not sensitive enough to detect all the odorants our noses can smell. For 
this reason, I’m going to describe the concept of chemical similarity using odor descriptions 
instead; we’ll use our noses as the chemical detectors. It’s only one step removed from 
measuring the odorants directly.
Ingredients commonly paired with chocolate based 
on co-occurrence in recipes—it’s commonly used 
with almonds, bananas, butter, cinnamon, coconut, 
hot peppers, milk, walnuts, and vanilla.Computational Flavor Inspiration 127One way to determine similarity is by measuring a number of different variables—say, 
quantities of potential compounds or odors—and then comparing items based on those 
different variables. It’s a two-step process: first, figure out a bunch of numbers that describe 
an individual item; and second, compare those numbers between different items.
This is more easily described with an example. Imagine a flavor profile for a food item, where 
the profile is how much the food item smells like the terms in Andrew Dravnieks’s 146-odor 
list (see page 94). For every term in the list, take an item of food and score it on a scale from 
1 to 5, where a score of 1 indicates “doesn’t smell like it at all” and 5 is “the very definition of 
the word!” Given a pear, how much does it smell like a “heavy” odor? 1. Fruity? Maybe a 3? 
Or how about fragrant? Say it’s a ripe pear, so 4. (The full odor atlas that Dravnieks created 
does something similar using a collection of known chemical compounds.) This first ranking 
step is not asking if the food item and odor description are compatible, just if the odor label 
accurately describes the smell and quantifying it with a number.
The second step to similarity matching compares the values for different ingredients, based 
on the theory that ingredients with similar scores can be combined or substituted for each 
other. Given the scores for the odors you sense in a pear, and those you sense in a banana, 
how much overlap would there be? You can plot a graph (almost like a histogram) for the 
two, showing how similar they smell. Do this for a bunch of ingredients, and it’s easy to 
show that pear and banana have more similar odors than, say, salmon and pear. 
Aromatic Fermented/
RottenFragrant Fresh
VegetableFruity Heavy Pear-likePear Banana
Results from asking a few thousand untrained users online to vote how much they thought various odor terms 
described bananas and pears (taller bars indicate a larger degree of agreement between food and odor).
Unlike ingredient co-occurrence, the chemical similarity method can find overlapping flavors 
that wouldn’t historically exist. You can imagine a graph with all the ingredients for a dish, 
showing all the “frequencies” present in the smells of each ingredient. Think of it like the 
various instruments that contribute to a piece of music: each has its own set of frequencies, 
and the combination of all the instruments makes up the overall song’s frequency 
distribution. When in tune, the frequencies line up: different ingredients hit the same odor 
terms, and not too many odor terms are struck. And as in music, when a dish is out of tune, 
the combination will be jarringly dissonant, even if each item is fine individually.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 128Of course, this music analogy isn’t a perfect fit for thinking about flavors: chemical changes 
brought about by cooking or by reactions between compounds in the foods change the 
histogram. The music analogy also doesn’t cover other variables in foods, such as texture, 
weight, or mouthfeel. This method works best with ingredients whose primary purpose is 
conveying odor. Soups, ice creams, even soufflés: all are methods of transporting the flavors 
and aromas of ingredients without carrying the texture or volume of the original ingredient.  
Many chefs—often pros, but also non-pros who’ve been 
cooking for years—can imagine flavor combinations 
in their heads, doing something similar to this process 
mentally. Just as a composer imagines each voice and track 
in a piece of music, an experienced cook imagines the 
profile of the entire dish, from the appearance to texture 
and aromas. Good cooks think about which notes are 
missing or are too soft and figure out what ingredients can 
be added to bring up those values or bring down others. 
What about achieving entirely new pairings, combinations that have no precedence in 
tradition? That’s where this method shines. Research chefs searching for new ideas spend an 
inordinate amount of time working on new flavor combinations. Some top-tier restaurants 
run research kitchens, devoted to laboratory work and 
staffed by individuals holding both master’s-level 
degrees in hard sciences like chemistry and 
degrees from top-tier culinary institutions. 
For novel high-end restaurants and the 
packaged food industry, coming up 
with new flavors can be extremely 
lucrative. While the more unusual 
combinations they come up with 
may sound unappealing or call 
for uncommon ingredients—
how often do you have caviar 
on hand?— they do work. 
At the very least, you might 
find these types of tools a fun 
source of inspiration to try new 
things. Experiment!Heston  Blumenthal, the UK-based chef best 
known for his restaurant The Fat Duck, has used a 
number of novel flavor combinations: strawberry 
and coriander, snails and beetroot, chocolate and 
pink peppercorn, carrot and violet, pineapple 
and certain types of blue cheese, and banana 
and parsley. They sound crazy, but the research 
supports them and they’ve worked in his dishes.
Ingredients similar to chocolate based on chemical similarity, 
grouped by food category—from the traditional (fruits like raspberry 
and strawberry) to the uncommon (Gruyère, cod, tomatoes).
GRAPH USED BY PERMISSION OF BERNARD LAHOUSSE OF FOODPAIRING.COMGewürztraminerMorio-MuscatCilantroGingerMustardOrange /f_lowerApple blossomHoneyAlmond
ClamPeanut roastedPeanut
Bottarga
CodBread
Malt
Almond thins Jules Destrooper
Kecap manis sauce
Sherry vinegar
Douchi
Beef grilled
Chicken cooked
Foie de canard Rougié baked
Pumpkin seed oilKohlrabi
Olive oilBell pepper coulisTomatoRaspberryStrawberryCoconutYoghurtButterMuller-ThurgauGruyereUganda Dark ChocolateComputational Flavor Inspiration 129Fish Tacos with Pickle and Strawberry Relish
I began this  chapter with the conundrum of how to combine pickles, strawberries, and 
tortillas—a combination of ingredients that doesn’t entice one to race off to the kitchen. 
But what if we had access to a supercomputer that could chew on the possibilities? IBM’s 
research project, Chef Watson  (http://www.ibmchefwatson.com ), does exactly this, 
and has proved to be enticing enough to merit its own cookbook, Cognitive Cooking 
with Chef Watson  (Sourcebooks, 2015). I take this development as proof that either 
computers are taking over the world or one no longer needs a pulse to land a book 
contract—possibly both.
Chef Watson is a curious creation, based on analyzing co-occurrence of ingredients in 
its database of recipes (currently, some 9,000 recipes from Bon Appétit) and chemical 
compound similarity between ingredients. When not constrained too much—say, starting 
with eggs and chocolate—the suggested recipes make sense and are just quirky enough 
to inspire. Making brownies with a cup of Gruyère cheese instead of butter? The cheese 
will provide the necessary fat, and cream cheese in brownies isn’t unheard of. With more 
constraints—pickles, strawberries, and tortillas—the recipe suggestions go from quirky 
to weird. Even so, the results are still insightful; in the case of these three ingredients, 
most of the suggested recipes include fish and take the form of tacos. Strawberries 
happen to share a number of odor compounds with tomatoes, and knowing this, it’s 
easier to see how the combination could work!
In a small bowl, create the taco topping by mixing together:
 ½ cup (90g) strawberries, hulled and diced
 ¼ cup (40g) pickles, diced and drained
 ¼ cup (15g) cilantro, chopped
 1 tablespoon (15 mL) white wine, dry vermouth, or gin
Set the topping aside.
Prepare ½ pound (~250g) fish or seafood  such as halibut , tuna , or crab by 
cutting it into large chunks, 1–2” / 3-5 cm. Coat the pieces in breadcrumbs, mixing 
¼ cup (~20g) panko crumbs or breadcrumbs  with ½ teaspoon (2g) sea salt  and 
then dredging the pieces of seafood in the crumbs.
In a frying pan over medium heat, melt 2 tablespoons (30g) butter . Once 
the butter has just begun to brown, add the fish pieces. Cook for about 2 
minutes and then flip the pieces, continuing to cook and flip them until 
the fish is cooked and the breadcrumbs are golden brown and toasted.
Serve by placing a taco shell or tortilla  on a plate and then topping with a 
spoonful of the fish and a smaller spoonful of the topping. Squeeze a slice 
of lime  on top.
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 130
How well do you think you know your flavors? Here are two different group activities to challenge 
participants to think about what they’re sensing. The first experiment uses both taste and smell and 
requires more advance prep work. The second experiment uses only smell and avoids potential allergy 
concerns, but isn’t quite as rewarding.
First, grab these supplies:
For Experiment #1: Flavor (both taste and smell)
10 small sample cups or an ice cube 
tray with at least 10 compartments 
(if you’re going to do this in a 
larger group, plan on 6–10 people 
per setup; for a group of 36, 4 ice 
cube trays with folks divided into 4 
groups works well)Ingredients for tasting. (A few of these are a little obscure, but they serve as fun 
challenges for tasters familiar with common flavors. If your local grocery store 
doesn’t carry all of these, snag other ingredients that you feel will work well 
based on where you live and how experienced the tasters will be.)
• White turnip, cooked and diced
• Cooked polenta, diced (some stores carry packaged cooked polenta that 
can be easily sliced) 
• Hazelnuts ground to the size of coarse sand
• Cilantro paste (look in the frozen food section, or buy fresh cilantro and use 
a mortar and pestle to make a paste) 
• Tamarind paste or tamarind concentrate
• Oreo cookies, ground (both chocolate cookie and cream filling; when ground 
in a blender or food processor they’ll turn into a coarse, black powder) 
• Almond butter (or any nut butter other than peanut butter) Pen to mark cups; if you’re using ice 
cube trays, masking tape that you 
can write on
Small sample spoons for each 
participant (if you don’t mind 
“double dipping, ” one spoon per 
person is fine)
Paper and pencil for each participant 
to write down their guesses• Caraway seeds • Jicama root, diced • Puréed blackberry
For Experiment #2: Smell only
15 plastic or waxed paper cups 
(one set of smell samples should 
be good for 30–40 people; 
for larger groups, multiply 
accordingly)Ingredients to smell. (If you have a hard time getting some of these, try 
substituting something similar, or simply drop the item.)
• Almond extract
• Baby powder
• Chocolate chips
• Coffee beans 
• Cologne or perfume (spray directly 
into the cup or onto a tissue)
• Garlic, crushed
• Glass cleaner
• Grass, chopped up• Lemon, sliced into wedges
• Maple syrup (real maple syrup, not 
that “pancake syrup” stuff)
• Orange peels
• Soy sauce
• Tea leaves
• Vanilla extract
• Wood shavings (e.g., sawdust, pencil 
shavings)15 small pieces of gauze or 
cheesecloth to cover each cup; 15 
rubber bands to secure gauze or 
cheesecloth
Paper and pencil for each 
participant to write down their 
guessesLab: How Well Do You Know Your Flavors? Computational Flavor Inspiration 131
Here’s what to do:
Experiment #1: Flavor (both taste and smell)
In advance:
1. Number each cup from 1 to 10. If you’re using ice 
cube trays, place a strip of masking tape down 
the length of the tray so that you can label each 
compartment, and number them 1 through 10.
2. Dice or purée the food items to remove any 
visual clues about their normal size and 
texture and transfer them to the appropriate 
numbered spots. Try to keep the diced items 
all of a consistent size, around 1/3” / 1 cm.
3. Cover the samples; if you’re preparing them 
more than a few hours ahead, store them in 
the fridge.When ready:
1. Make sure to alert anyone who has nut 
allergies or uncommon allergies that they 
should abstain from partaking.
2. Instruct participants to sample items and 
record their guesses. It’s best if everyone 
makes the first guess in silence! Ask them to 
list what their first thoughts are, and if they 
change their minds, to list additional guesses 
instead of crossing out earlier ideas.
Experiment #2: Smell only
In advance:
1. Number each cup from 1 to 15.
2. Add the item to the cup and cover with a 
square of gauze or cheesecloth, securing it 
with a rubber band around the top.When ready:
Pass the cups around for participants to smell. The 
order they smell the samples in doesn’t matter, but 
for larger groups it’s easier to pass them around in 
order. Ask participants to write down their guesses 
but not to say anything out loud.
Investigation time!
These experiments use common items, mostly 
foods from your grocery store. Most of the 
suggested items aren’t likely to be part of your 
day-to-day experience but should still be familiar. 
You might be surprised at the degree of difficulty 
in identifying some of them! It’s surprising to 
discover how much “knowing” what a 
food item is—seeing the cilantro leaf 
or being told it’s a hazelnut chocolate 
cupcake—allows us to sense the 
flavors we expect from it.For each item, ask people what their guesses were. 
What does the group notice about everyone’s 
guesses? Are some items easy to guess? How many 
people guessed correctly for Oreo cookies versus 
less-processed foods? Are some people much better 
at detecting odors than others? 
If you are interested in taking a “real” smell test, researchers at 
the University of Pennsylvania have developed a well-validated 
scratch-and-sniff test called UPSIT that you can mail order. Search 
online for “University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test.”
Lab: How Well Do You Know Your Flavors? 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorCooking for Geeks 132Gail Vance Civille on Learning FlavorsPHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF GAIL VANCE CIVILLE.
Gail Vance Civille is a self-described 
“taste and smell geek” who started out 
working as a sensory professional at the 
General Foods technical center and is now 
president and owner of Sensory Spectrum, 
Inc., in New Providence, New Jersey.
How does somebody who is trained 
to think about flavor, taste, and 
sensation perceive these things 
differently than the layperson?
The big difference between a trained 
taster and an untrained taster is not 
that your nose or your palate gets 
better, but that your brain gets better at 
sorting things out. You train your brain 
to pay attention to the sensations that 
you are getting and the words that are 
associated with them.It sounds like a lot of it is about the 
ability to recall things that you’ve 
experienced before. Are there 
things that one can do to help get 
one’s brain organized?
You can go to your spice and herb 
cupboard and sort and smell the 
contents. For example, allspice will smell 
very much like cloves. That’s because the 
allspice berry has clove oil or eugenol in 
it. You’ll say, “Oh, wow, this allspice smells 
very much like clove.” So the next time 
you smell them, you might say, “Clove, 
oh but wait, it could be allspice.”
So, in cooking, is this how an 
experienced chef understands how 
to do substitutions and to match 
things together?
Right. I try to encourage people to 
experiment and learn these things 
so that they know, for example, that 
if you run out of oregano you should 
substitute thyme and not basil. Oregano 
and thyme are chemically similar and 
have a similar sensory impression. You 
have to be around them and play with 
them in order to know that.
With herbs and spices, how do you 
do that?
First you learn them. You take them 
out, you smell them, and you go, “Ah, 
okay, that’s rosemary.” Then you smell 
something else and you go, “Okay, 
that’s oregano,” and so on. Next you 
close your eyes and put your hand 
out, pick up a bottle, and smell it and 
see if you can name what it is. Another 
exercise to do is to see if you can sort 
these different things into piles of like 
things. You will sort the oregano with 
the thyme and, believe it or not, the sage with the rosemary, because they 
both have eucalyptol in them, which is 
the same chemical and, therefore, they 
have some of the same flavor profile.
What about lining up spices and 
foods—for example, apples and 
cinnamon?
You put cinnamon with an apple 
because the apple has a woody 
component, a woody part of the flavor 
like the stem and the seeds. And the 
cinnamon has a wood component, 
and that woody component of the 
cinnamon sits over the not-so-pleasant 
woodiness of the apple, and gives it 
a sweet cinnamon character. That’s 
what shows. Similarly, in tomatoes you 
add garlic or onion to cover over the 
skunkiness of the tomatoes, and in the 
same way basil and oregano sit on top 
of the part of the tomato that’s kind of 
musty and viney. Together they create 
something that shows you the best 
part of the tomato and hides some 
of the less lovely parts of the tomato. 
That’s why chefs put certain things 
together. They go, they blend, they 
merge and meld, and actually create 
something that’s unique and different 
and better than the sum of the parts.
It takes a while to get at that level, 
because you have to really feel confident 
both as a cook and getting off the 
recipe. Please, get off the recipe. Let’s 
get people off these recipes and into 
thinking about what tastes good. Taste it 
and go, “Oh, I see what’s missing. There’s 
something missing here in the whole 
structure of the food. Let me think about 
how I’m going to add that.” I can cook 
something and think to myself, there’s 
something missing in the middle, I 
Computational Flavor Inspiration 133when I talk about this, and I’m like, no, 
no, no, that’s the way it’s supposed  to be. 
That’s the way Asian food is; it’s spiky and 
interesting and popping, and that’s not 
the way classic European food, especially 
southern European food, is.
In the case of classic European dishes, 
let’s say you’re out eating eggplant 
Parmesan, and it’s just fantastic. How 
do you go about trying to figure out 
how to make that?
I would start identifying what I am 
capable of identifying. So you say, 
“Okay, I get tomato, and I get the 
eggplant, but the eggplant seems like 
it’s fried in something interesting, and 
not exactly just peanut oil or olive oil. I 
wonder what that is?” Then I would ask 
the waiter, “This is very interesting. It’s 
different from the way I normally see 
eggplant Parmesan. Is there something 
special about the oil or the way that the 
sous chef fries the eggplant that makes 
this so special?” If you ask something 
specific, you are more likely to get an 
answer from the kitchen than if you say, 
“Can you give me the recipe?” That is 
not likely to get you an answer.
When thinking about the 
description of smells, it seems 
like the vocabulary around how 
we describe the taste is almost as 
important.
It’s the way that we communicate 
our experience. If you said “fresh” or “it 
tasted homemade,” you could mean 
many things. These are more nebulous 
terms than, say, “You could taste the 
fried eggplant coming through all of 
the sauce and all of the cheese.” This is 
very, very specific, and in fact, “fresh” in 
this case is freshly fried eggplant. I once 
had a similar situation with ratatouille in 
a restaurant. I asked the waiter, “Could 
you tell me please if this ratatouille was just made?” The waiter said, “Yes, he 
makes it just ahead and he doesn’t put 
all the pieces together until just before 
we serve dinner.” When people say 
“homemade,” they usually mean that 
it tastes not sophisticated and refined, 
but that it tastes like it had been made 
by a good home cook, so it’s more 
rustic, but very, very well put together.
Is there a certain advantage that 
the home chef has because he is 
assembling the ingredients so close 
to the time that the meal is being 
eaten?
Oh, there’s no question that depending 
upon the nature of the food itself, there 
are some things that actually benefit 
from sitting long in the pot. Most home 
chefs, either intuitively or cognitively, 
have a good understanding of what 
goes with what, and how long you 
have to wait for it to reach its peak.
Y ou said a few minutes ago, “We 
need to get off the recipe. ” Can you 
elaborate?
When I cook, I will look at seven or 
so different recipes. The first time I 
made sauerbraten, I made it from at 
least five recipes. You pick things from 
each based on what you think looks 
good, and what the flavor might be 
like. I think the idea of experimenting 
in the classic sense of experimenting 
is fine. Geeks should be all about 
experimenting. What’s the worst thing 
that’s going to happen? It won’t taste 
so great. It won’t be poison, and it won’t 
be yucky; it just may not be perfect, but 
that’s okay. I think when you do that, it 
gives you a lot more freedom to make 
many more things because you’re not 
tied to the ingredient list. The recipe is, 
as far as I’m concerned, a place to start 
but not the be all, end all.have some top notes and I have maybe 
beef and it’s browned and it has really 
heavy bottom notes. I think of flavor 
like a triangle. Well, then I need to add 
oregano or something like that. I don’t 
need lemon, which is another top note, 
and I don’t need brown caramelized 
anything else because that’s in the 
bottom. You taste it, and you think about 
how you are going to add that.
How does somebody tasting 
something answer the question, 
“Hey, if I wanted to do this at home, 
what should I do?”
I can sit in some of the best restaurants 
in the world, and not have a clue what’s 
in there. I can’t taste them apart, it’s 
so tight. So it’s not just a matter of 
experience; it’s also a matter of the 
experience of the chef. If you have a 
classically trained French or Italian chef, 
they can create something where I will 
be scratching my head, going “Beats 
me, I can’t tell what’s in here,” because 
it’s so tight, it’s so blended, that I can’t 
see the pieces. I only see the whole.
Now this does not happen with a lot of 
Asian foods, because they are designed 
to be spiky and pop. That’s why Chinese 
food doesn’t taste like French and 
Italian food. Did you ever notice that? 
Asian foods have green onions, garlic, 
soy, and ginger, and they’re supposed 
to pop, pop, pop. But the next day 
they’re all blending together and this 
isn’t quite so interesting.
This almost suggests that if one 
is starting out with cooking, one 
approach is to go out and eat Asian 
food and try to identify the flavors?
Oh, definitely. That’s a very good place to 
start, and Chinese is a better place to start 
than most. I’ve had some Asian people in 
classes that I’ve taught get very insulted 
Taste, Smell, and FlavorChapter Contents
Cooked = Time * Temperature  ......................... 136
Heat Transfer  .......................... 139
Cooking Methods  ........................ 141
85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats  ......148
Butter  ................................. 154
Chocolate, Cocoa Fats, and Tempering  ..... 157
104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and Meat Proteins 
Start to Denature  ...................................... 162140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone  ....... 170
How to Reduce the Chances of Foodborne 
Illness  ............................... 180
141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set  ....................... 187
154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures  ....... 195
158°F / 70°C: Vegetable Starches Break Down  ..205
310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions Become 
Noticeable ................................................. 213
356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes ....... 221
Interviews
Doug Powell on Food 
Safety,  178
Bridget Lancaster 
on Cooking 
Misconceptions,  231Recipes
Pan-Seared Steak,  140
Salt-Roasted Fish with 
Lemon and Herbs,  147
DIY Bittersweet Chocolate 
Bar, 161
Buttermilk-Marinated Skirt 
Steak,  167
Olive Oil Poached Salmon,  168
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
Steak Tartare with Poached 
Egg, 174
Scallop Ceviche,  176
Belgian Meatballs,  185
Crème Anglaise, Vanilla 
Custard, and Bread 
Pudding,  192
Easy-to-Peel Hard -Cooked 
Eggs, 193
Slow Scrambled Eggs,  194
Oven-Roasted Eggs,  194Tomato, Herb, and Squid 
Bruschetta,  199
Duck Confit,  200
Duck Confit in Pasta,  202
Slow-Cooked Short Ribs,  203
Quick Steamed Asparagus,  208
Sautéed Greens with 
Sesame Seeds,  209
Poached Pears,  210
Grilled Vegetables,  211
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
Great Garlic Bread,  217
Butterflied Roast Chicken,  218
Sugar Cookies, Butter 
Cookies, and Cinnamon 
Snickerdoodles,  224
Wet and Dry Caramel Sauces,  228
Roasted Glazed Carrots with 
Red Onions,  230Labs
Lab: Collagen Protein 
Experiment,  204
Lab: Tasty Rates of 
Reactions—Find 
Your Perfect Cookie,  2263
EVER SINCE CAVEMEN DISCOVERED FIRE AND STARTED ROASTING THEIR 
DINNER, MANKIND HAS ENJOYED A WHOLE NEW SET OF FLAVORS IN FOOD. 
Heat transforms food by triggering physical and chemical reactions in the proteins, fats, 
and carbohydrates present in animal and plant tissues. These reactions change the flavor, 
texture, and appearance of food in incredibly satisfying and delicious ways.
The temperatures we cook at are only a proxy for heat-related reactions. Regardless of the 
temperature of your oven, it’s the temperature of the food itself that determines what 
changes will occur. Both boiling and steaming depend on water for heat, limiting 
the food’s temperature to the boiling point of water and in turn preventing foods 
from browning. Sautéing and roasting aren’t limited by water’s boiling point, 
allowing for higher temperatures and additional reactions.
Controlling the flow of heat into your ingredients and learning the 
temperatures at which various reactions begin to occur are your best 
weapons in the quest to conquer the kitchen. Different heating 
methods change how quickly foods cook, and understanding the 
key variables of time and temperature will provide the answer to that 
famous question: is it done yet?  Time and Temperature
   135Cooking for Geeks 136
Cooked = Time * Temperature
Cooking involves heat, but what is heat? Why can’t you double the heat and cook things twice 
as fast? And just what exactly happens to a ball of chocolate chip cookie dough as you bake it?
When you step into the kitchen, you’re unwittingly turned into a physicist and a chemist  . 
As chocolate chip cookie dough heats up in the oven, proteins in the eggs denature 
(chemistry), water from the eggs and butter evaporates (physics), starches in the flour melt 
(more physics), and the outside of the cookie turns brown from the Maillard reaction and 
caramelization (more chemistry). And then you have a cookie!
Water turning into steam and starches melting are changes that physicists  call phase 
transitions : a substance changing from one phase of matter (solid, liquid, gas) into another. 
These changes are reversible. Steam can turn back into water; fats can resolidify. The 
caramelization and Maillard reactions that turn cookies brown are chemical  reactions : 
changes in substances that create different sets of molecules. Sometimes reactions are 
reversible, but usually they’re not. You can’t unburn something! How quickly a reaction 
happens (it’s never instantaneous) is called the rate of reaction . More formally, the rate is 
how much of a reaction occurs in a given amount of time.
Here’s the most important concept in this chapter: increasing the temperature increases the 
rate of reaction. This is basic kinetics, a Law of the Universe. A reaction that happens slowly at 
one temperature will occur more quickly at a higher temperature, assuming enzymes and any 
reactants stay unchanged. Because higher temperatures speed up rates of reactions, we get the 
rule of thumb cooked = time * temperature . The answer to “Is it done yet?” depends on whether 
enough of the necessary reactions have occurred, and those are based on time and temperature.
Cooked = Time * Temperature
The question “Is it done yet?” does have a theoretical answer based on time and heat 
added. The below dynamic mathematical model includes factors for meat’s thermal 
conductivity as well as denaturation rates for proteins like actin and myosin. For more, 
see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/meatmath/ . Remember to cook until medium-rare!
          ti(J+1) = (qi·τdh+1m·dτ·(ti(j-1) + ti(j+1)) + mc·cm·hi,j)/2·1m·Fdτ + mc·cm·dh
          K1i = 0.00836 - 0.001402 pH + 5.5·10-7·t2
          K2i = -0.278 + 7.325·10-2pH - 3.482·10-5·t2
          K3i = 2.537·10-3 - 1.493·10-4·ti + 2.198·10-5·t2
          K4i = 2.537·10-2 - 9.172·10-3pH + 3.157·10-5·ti2
          m1t.i = m0b - (mob - mtb)·e-K1i·t
          m2t.i = m0b - (mob - mtb)·e-K2i·t
          m3t.i = m0b - (mob - mtb)·e-K3i·t
          m4t.i = m0b - (mob - mtb)·e-K4i·tSOURCE: M. A. BELYAEVA (2003), “CHANGE OF MEAT PROTEINS DURING 
THERMAL TREATMENT, ”  CHEMISTRY OF NATURAL COMPOUNDS  39 (4). Cooked = Time * Temperature 137If you sprinkle sugar onto a hot cookie sheet and bake it in an oven at 320°F / 160°C for 
an hour, some percentage of it will react—it’ll caramelize—but slowly. Sprinkle the same 
amount of sugar onto a hotter cookie sheet and bake it at 340°F / 170°C, and the reaction will 
happen roughly twice as fast, meaning it’ll take only half an hour to reach the same amount of 
caramelization. This assumes the sugar jumps to those temperatures instantly! A more complete 
model of cooking includes the time that cold foods take to heat up when put into a hot oven.
Smell, touch, sight, sound, taste: learn to use all of your senses in cooking. Meat 
cooked to medium-rare will feel firmer and visibly shrink; cooked beyond medium-
rare, it’ll shrink further as other types of proteins denature. The bubbling of a sauce 
as it’s boiled will sound different once the water is mostly evaporated. Bread crust 
that has had enough browning reactions will smell wonderful, and you’ll see the 
color shift toward mahogany-brown.
If hotter temperatures speed up reaction times, why not dial the temperature way up and 
cut cooking times way down? Because other reactions will speed up too, but not at the 
same ratios.  The chocolate chip cookie is a great example: we have water in the interior 
and browning on the surface. If you increase the temperature too much, the outside of the 
cookie is going to be fully browned before the center is set. Other reactions will also start 
to happen; for example, reactions related to burning start to speed up at around 390°F / 
200°C. On the other hand, if you set the temperature too low, the cookie will dry out before 
the outside is done and has the rich flavors you want. Time and temperature are a thermal 
and chemical balancing act, as we’ll see throughout this chapter.
There are two major aha!  points here:
• The most important variable in cooking is the temperature of the food itself, not 
the temperature of the environment in which it’s being cooked. When you’re 
roasting a chicken, the temperature of the oven doesn’t determine the rate at 
which reactions will happen, although it does determine the rate at which the 
chicken will heat up. Ultimately, it’s the temperature of the chicken itself that 
matters.
• The temperature of the food determines the rate of reactions, but different 
reactions occur at different rates, even at the same temperature. Changing the 
temperature changes the ratio  of chemical reactants that are produced. Heat takes 
time to transfer through foods, and that complicates this process further.
Many interesting changes happen to food when it’s heated, most of which occur in the fats, 
proteins, and carbohydrates of the food. This chapter is organized around the reactions 
listed in this chart. It’s useful to see the big picture of temperatures of reactions and 
temperatures of various cooking techniques—this is one of my favorite charts!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 138122ºF / 50ºC The protein myosin in meat begins to denature104ºF / 40ºC The protein myosin in /f_ish begins to denature
131ºF / 55ºC Highest survival temperature of foodborne illness-related bacteria
140ºF / 60ºC Highest temperature in the “Danger Zone” rule
141ºF / 61ºC Eggs begin to set
310ºF / 154ºC Maillard reaction (causes 
meats to brown) becomes noticeable
356ºF / 180ºC Sugar (sucrose) 
quickly caramelizes
375ºF / 190ºC Oven temperature 
for baked goods that noticeably brown212ºF / 100ºC 
Highest temperature in wet 
cooking method (excluding 
pressure cookers)
350ºF / 175ºC Oven temperature 
for baked goods with little browning
325ºF / 163ºC Lowest eﬀective oven 
temperature for roasting meats136-150ºF / 58-65.5ºC Ideal 
temperature for cooked meat170ºF / 77ºC 
Standard poaching temperature150ºF / 65.5ºC The protein actin in 
meat begins to denature
154ºF / 68ºC Collagen (Type I) 
protein denatures
158ºF / 70ºC Vegetable starches 
break down
100ºF 200ºF 300ºF 400ºF 
Native Proteins and Denatured Proteins
Proteins as they naturally occur—in plant or animal tissues—are said to be native  
when they’re in their normal, natural state. A protein is built by a bunch of amino 
acids linking together and then folding in upon themselves into a specific shape. 
Think of a protein as a long metal chain, all tangled up. When it’s created, the rings 
of the chain are linked together, and then the chain is twisted and folded up in a 
specific way, giving it a 3D shape (called its molecular conformation ).
Heating a protein changes its 3D shape, undoing the twists and folds and changing 
how the protein functions in a process called denaturation . (This is why heat kills 
bacteria!) Once bent out of shape (groan), the protein may not be able to attach 
to whatever it was holding on to (making food textures less tough). Or, given the 
new conformation, it might now be able to attach to other molecules (making food 
textures tougher). It’s not just heat that can denature proteins in cooking; acid, 
alcohol, and even mechanical whipping or freezing can trigger denaturation.Cooking temperatures, and temperatures at which different reactions occur.Cooked = Time * Temperature 139Heat Transfer 
We’ve briefly looked at what happens to a chocolate chip cookie as it bakes—proteins 
denaturing, water evaporating, the outside browning—but how does a cookie actually heat 
up? Before digging into the heat-related reactions in cooking, we should look at how heat 
gets transferred into foods in the first place. Cookies are really complicated, so I’m going to 
talk about cooking steak here, but the concepts are universal. 
The idea that you can just cook something like a steak any way you like until its center reaches 
the desired temperature sounds too easy—there must be a catch. There are a few, actually.
For one, how you get the heat into a piece of food matters. A lot. The center of a steak will 
reach medium-rare faster when the steak is placed on a hot grill than when it’s roasted in 
a warm oven. The laws of thermodynamics dictate this: any time there is a difference in 
temperature between two systems, heat will transfer from the hotter system (the grill) to 
the colder one (the steak). And the bigger the difference in temperatures between two 
systems is, the faster the heat will transfer (see chart). 
This chart is an oversimplification, of course. It shows 
only the temperature at the center of the steak and 
ignores aspects like temperature stalls from evaporative 
cooling. (We’re also considering a spherical cow here, of 
course, but notably not in a vacuum.) If we took a cross-
section of the two steaks right as their centers reached 
135°F / 57°C, we’d see some pretty big differences 
between the grilled and oven-cooked versions.
This difference in temperature from the center to 
the outer edges is referred to as a temperature gradient . These two 
steaks have quite different gradients because the hotter grill transfers 
heat faster—the bigger difference in temperature results in a steeper 
“gradient of doneness, ” and in this case, an overcooked grilled steak.
If the steak is overcooked, then what’s the appeal of cooking on a grill? 
It depends on how you like your meats cooked. A nicely cooked steak 
has an aromatic, browned sizzling surface—say, 310°F / 154°C—and 
an interior that’s somewhere between rare and well done. If you like 
your steak cooked rare (125°F / 52°C), you need a steeper gradient 
of doneness, so use a hotter environment and cook it briefly; if you 
like steaks cooked until well done (160°F / 71°C), cook them at lower 
temperatures for a longer time. Most of us like steak cooked to medium-
rare (135°F / 57°C) because this produces a texture that has the right 
amount of tenderness and moisture to be most satisfying.Fridge
36°F/2°C TimeOven
375°F/175°CGrill
650°F/340°C
Medium-rare Steak
135ºF/57°CHypothetical steak in grill
Hypothetical steak in oven
Temperature gradient of steak
cooked in an oven (375ºF/190°C)
135ºF / 57ºC
145ºF / 63ºC155ºF / 68ºC Temperature gradient of steak
cooked on a grill (650ºF/343°C)
150ºF / 66ºC
165ºF / 74ºC180ºF / 82ºC
135ºF / 57ºC
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 140
Pan-Seared Steak
Carryover  refers  to the phenomenon of food 
continuing to cook after being removed from the 
source of heat. While this seems to violate a whole 
bunch of laws of thermodynamics, it’s actually 
straightforward: the outer portion of the just-cooked 
food is hotter than the center portion, so the outer 
portion will transfer some of its heat into the center. 
The amount of carryover depends upon the shape 
of the food and the temperature gradient, but as a 
general rule, I find it is typically about 5°F / 3°C.
Cooking steak is a great way to see carryover in 
action. Follow these directions, and during the rest 
period, continue watching the probe thermometer. 
You should see the core temperature peak 5°F / 
3°C higher 3 minutes into the rest period. With 
experience, you’ll learn when a steak is done 
cooking by sense of sight and touch, but at first, use 
a digital probe thermometer.
Get a cast iron pan good and hot over high heat. 
Prepare a 1” / 2.5 cm–thick sirloin steak  by 
scoring any fat on the sides with cuts every inch 
or so (this will prevent the steak from warping 
when it shrinks during cooking) and patting the 
steak dry (too much surface moisture will change 
the steak’s outside texture).Drop the steak onto the hot cast iron pan and let 
it cook for 2 minutes. Don’t poke it! Just let it sear. 
After 2 minutes, flip the steak and let it cook for 
another 2 minutes. Flip it again, reduce the heat to 
between medium-low and medium-high, and cook 
it for 5–7 minutes, flipping halfway though. For 
medium-rare steak, cook at medium-high heat until 
the center reads 130°F / 54°C; for medium steak, 
cook at slightly lower heat until the center of the 
steak reads 140°F / 60°C. Carryover heat will add a 
few degrees; these numbers are adjusted for that!
Rest the steak on a cutting board for 5 minutes. If 
you like, sprinkle it with salt and freshly ground 
pepper after cooking. (Don’t salt right before 
cooking. The salt will pull moisture out of the 
interior and make the surface wetter. If you do 
want to salt in advance, do so an hour or so ahead 
of time and thoroughly blot the surface to dry it 
before cooking. Adding pepper before can lead to 
a bitter burnt taste, as the pepper will burn.)
See page 180 for a chart of cooking temperatures 
for common foods, including steaks cooked to 
other levels of doneness.
Why do some recipes start at high heat and then switch to medium heat?
Dropping a cold steak onto a hot pan causes a very fast drop in the pan’s temperature as heat is 
transferred from it into the cold steak. Recovery time  is how long it takes for the pan to return to 
temperature, and is based on how fast the burner is heating it. Different burners transfer heat at 
different rates, and the thermal mass of your pan will matter, too. Starting at higher heat factors in the 
temperature drop, in essence accounting for recovery time right away.
Cooked = Time * Temperature 141This temperature rule—higher heat, steeper temperature gradient—is why matching the 
right cooking temperature for your desired outcome matters. A recipe’s cooking time and 
temperature need to be chosen to heat the different regions of the food to the right levels. 
I know, in theory that sounds so simple, but how do you know what to set your oven to? 
As the saying goes: in theory, there’s no difference between theory and practice; in practice, 
there is.  In practice, it’s best to make an educated guess on time and temperature and take 
note of whether the insides and outsides of the food are correctly cooked. If the outside 
is done before the inside—evidenced by a burnt outside or undercooked center—lower 
the temperature and cook the food longer next time. For baked goods like muffins, try 
dropping the temperature 25°F / ~15°C and increasing the baking time by 10%; for meats 
and vegetables, try a 50°F / ~25°C drop and adjust accordingly. For the opposite problem, 
increase the temperatures by these amounts and check what happens.
Cooking Methods
I’ve written a lot about temperature differences and temperature gradients, but cooking 
is really about heat transfer . Formally speaking, heat  is the transfer of energy between two 
systems and happens because of differences in their temperatures. I know, that sounds 
confusing— what’s temperature, then?! —but a quick example makes this simple to understand.
A pot of boiling water has a temperature of 212°F / 100°C. Heating the pot is a transfer 
of kinetic energy from the burner to the pot, and then from the pot to the water. Adding 
heat—more kinetic energy—to the boiling water does not change its temperature! The 
water remains at 212°F / 100°C, even though it’s being heated. The heat turns the water to 
steam, and that’s where all that kinetic energy is transferred, even though the steam and 
boiling water are at the same temperature.
Cooking methods that transfer heat using water are called wet heat methods  (also called 
moist heat methods ). All other cooking methods are called dry heat methods . (Not to 
confuse you, but heating the pot of water on a burner is a dry heat method, but heating 
something inside that water would be a wet heat method because it’s using the boiling 
water.) 
Wet cooking methods don’t involve enough heat to create flavors from 
caramelization or Maillard reactions. (One exception is pressure cooking, which 
can set up the necessary conditions while keeping the food moist—
see page 308.) You should choose wet cooking methods when you 
want to avoid those flavors. Steamed vegetables won’t turn brown 
while cooking, giving you food with less of a flavor change, which 
is nice for things like broccoli. Sometimes, though, the flavors from 
browning help a dish. Brussels sprouts are commonly boiled and 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 142widely hated. Next time you cook them, quarter them, coat them with something like olive 
oil and sprinkle them with salt, and then bake them until lightly browned using a broiler set 
to medium. Cooked this way, they won’t be so widely disliked!
Wet and dry cooking methods can be grouped into three categories based on how they 
transfer heat: conduction, convection, and radiation.
Conduction 
Conduction  is the simplest type of heat transfer to understand: it’s what you experience 
whenever you touch a cold countertop or hold a warm cup of coffee. In cooking, methods 
that transfer heat through direct contact between food and a hot material, such as the hot 
metal of a skillet, are conduction methods. 
Dropping a steak onto a hot cast iron pan causes thermal energy from the pan to be transferred 
to the colder steak as the neighboring molecules distribute kinetic energy to equalize the 
difference in temperature. As the part of the steak that’s touching the pan heats up, that part 
conducts heat up through the meat to colder regions—again, basic thermal equilibrium.
Different materials transfer heat at different rates—called thermal conductivity —which is 
why a piece of wood at room temperature doesn’t feel as cold to you as a piece of room-
temperature metal. Different pans will conduct heat at very different rates based on the 
metals they’re made with (see page 46 for more on metals in pans).
The choice of cooking medium also changes conduction rate: hot water will transfer heat 
roughly 23 times faster than hot air at the same temperature, and 3.5 times faster than oil—
that’s a huge difference! This is why hard-cooked eggs cook faster in boiling water or steam 
than in a hotter dry oven. This is also why humidity can change cooking and baking times—
water vapor is still water! Higher humidity means more moisture in air, and more moisture 
means more heat transfer. ( Helium happens to be a decent conductor of heat—about the 
same as olive oil—just in case you happen to have a tank around. Hydrogen is, too, but I 
don’t recommend that.)
Glass
Water
Canola oilOlive oil
Hardwoods
Air in oven Styrofoam1.05
0.60
0.18
0.16
Air in home0.020.17
0.040.03Water: 0.6
Canola Oil: 0.18Hardwoods: 0.16
Olive Oil: 0.17
Air in Oven: 0.037Styrofoam: 0.03Air in Home: 0.025
Better Insulators Better ConductorsThermal Conductivity
(Watts per Kelvin per meter)
Thermal Conductivity
(Watts per Kelvin per meter)Oil transfers heat faster than air but slower than water, but it can be heated up way 
higher than water! This makes it a fast cooking method with the benefit of being hot 
enough to trigger caramelization and Maillard reactions. (Mmm, doughnuts!)Cooked = Time * Temperature 143Convection
Convection methods of transferring heat—baking, roasting, boiling, steaming—all work by 
circulating a hot material against a cold one, causing the two materials to transfer heat by 
conduction. Technically, convection is a type of conduction cooking, but only indirectly; it’s 
the recirculation of a material that transfers heat into foods.
In dry cooking methods, hot air, oil, or bare metal transfers heat. 
Cooking fries in a deep fat fryer relies on convection of oil to heat the 
cold potato; cookies in an oven are baked primarily by the circulation 
of hot air heating the cold dough. Convection ovens, which have a 
blower inside to move air around more quickly, heat up foods about 
a quarter faster and remove cold spots in the oven. (Technically, all 
ovens are convection ovens, in the sense that heat is transferred by the 
movement of hot air. Adding a fan just moves the air faster.)
In wet cooking methods, such as boiling and steaming, water transfers heat. Poached eggs 
and steamed buns are cooked by water or water vapor raising the temperature of the food’s 
surface. (All wet cooking methods are considered convection because water and water 
vapor are always moving.) It’s easy to overcook foods with wet methods because of the 
higher rate of heat transfer. For lean, tender cuts of meat and fish, take care that the food 
doesn’t get too hot when cooking in liquid! Keep your liquids at a gentle simmer, between 
160°F / 71°C and 180°F / 82°C.
What’s the difference between steam and water vapor?
Oh, language, how tricky you can be. Water vapor  is easy: it’s water in its gaseous 
form, invisible to the naked eye. Steam , though, can mean either water vapor or 
condensed water droplets suspended in air, the stuff you see “steaming” above a 
pot of boiling water.
There’s a huge thermal difference between water vapor and the billowing cloud 
of steam that you see when boiling water. Water as a gas packs a huge  thermal 
punch: it gives off 540 calories of energy per gram of water when it condenses. I 
would much rather lean my face over a steaming pot of boiling water, where the 
water has already condensed in the air, than lean into an airstream of water vapor, 
which would burn my skin as it condenses and transfers its kinetic energy.
Foods themselves can transfer heat 
from one region to another via 
convection. Cake batters, before 
they’re set, will slowly flow, with the 
warmer outer regions rising and 
curling in toward the center.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 144Radiation
Radiant methods of heating work by the transfer of electromagnetic energy, typically 
microwaves or infrared radiation. The warmth you feel when sunlight hits your skin is 
radiant heat. In cooking, radiant heat methods are the only ones in which the energy being 
applied to the food can be either reflected or absorbed by the food. Different foods will 
absorb or reflect radiant heat based on how the energy interacts with the molecules of the 
food. Microwaves, for example, are absorbed very well by polar molecules like water, but 
very poorly by nonpolar molecules like oil (for more on molecular polarity, see page 398).
Radiant energy travels in straight lines: from the broiler straight to the food, or possibly 
reflecting off the walls of an oven or the surface of a reflective cookie sheet. You can use this 
reflective property to change how something cooks. One technique for baking pie shells uses 
aluminum foil around the outer edge as a reflector to prevent overcooking the outer ring of 
crust. If you see one part of a dish cooking too fast and the heat source is radiant, a small 
sheet of aluminum foil can serve as a heat reflector: a clever “thinking like a geek” hack.
Gas ovens rely on circulating hot air that heats up the 
oven walls; those hot oven walls then radiate heat. If you 
have an electric oven, the heating element gives off a lot 
of radiant heat directly—straight from the bottom of the 
oven. This isn’t good for recipes that expect the heating 
to be done primarily by air convection—the undersides 
of the foods will heat too quickly! This is why I strongly 
recommend you always leave a pizza or baking stone on 
the bottom rack of an oven: it will absorb the radiant heat 
and diffuse it, giving your oven a much better heat profile. 
(See page 35 for notes on calibrating your oven.)
What’s the difference between gas and electric ovens?
Well, other than the source of heat, they bake things slightly differently, for a subtle 
reason: they handle humidity differently. Gas ovens usually (not always) vent 
the combustion byproducts—carbon dioxide, water vapor—through the oven 
chamber. This means they’re injecting a constant stream of moisture around the 
food being cooked. They’re also constantly venting the air from the oven chamber 
to the outside—the gas coming in has to displace something!
Electric ovens, on the other hand, start out much drier—there’s no gas being 
combusted and generating water vapor—but many models won’t vent air out as 
foods bake and give off moisture, so they end up getting more and more humid as 
the water in foods evaporates during cooking.
Darker colors absorb more radiant heat, which 
is why winter jackets are black and summertime 
outfits are lighter colored. Darker cookie 
sheets will absorb more radiant heat and then 
conduct that energy through the material to 
the underside of the cookies, causing them to 
bake faster on the bottom. If the bottoms of 
your cookies are coming out overcooked, drop 
your oven temperature by 25°F / ~15°C.
Cooked = Time * Temperature 145Cooking methods listed by type of heat transfer.
Conduction Convection Radiation
Description Heat passes by direct contact 
between two materialsHeat passes via movement of 
a heated material against a 
colder materialHeat is transferred via electro -
magnetic radiation
Example Steak touching pan; pan 
touching electric burnerHot water, hot air, or oil mov -
ing along outside of foodInfrared radiation from 
charcoal
Uses Sautéing
SearingDry heat methods :
• Baking/roasting
• Deep-fat frying*
Wet heat methods :
• Boiling
• Braising/water bath
• Pressure cooking
• Simmering/poaching
• SteamingMicrowaving
Broiling
Grilling
*Frying is a dry-heat method because oil, while a liquid, isn’t wet—there’s no water in it.
Combined methods of heat transfer
Cooking techniques invariably combine multiple methods of heat transfer. A cookie in an 
oven bakes because of hot air (convection), the pan heating up and cooking the underside 
(conduction), and some amount of radiant heat from the hot oven walls.
Some foods, like cookies, turn out better when heat is transferred into them from certain 
directions at certain rates. Sometimes it’s obvious. You can avoid cookies burning on 
the bottom by reducing how much heat is transferred to them from below: either use a 
different cookie sheet that doesn’t transfer heat as quickly (lighter color, different metal) 
or line the cookie sheet with parchment paper. Other dishes aren’t always so easy to figure 
out. Pies and custards, for example, do better when heat is transferred into them from 
the bottom up; this prevents the top from setting and then cracking from the bottom’s 
subsequent expansion. Setting them in a hot water bath or directly on top of a baking 
stone will help.
Here are some thoughts for  choosing cooking techniques:
Use multiple cooking techniques.
My favorite lasagna starts out being baked (convection) to heat the center and melt 
the cheese, and then finishes with broiling (radiant) to give a delicious browned top. If 
you’re cooking by intuition, use cooking techniques that heat the various regions of the 
foods to the right target temperatures, mixing and matching as needed.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 146Match the cooking technique to the shape of the food.
In roasting and baking, heat comes from all directions, which is great for roasting whole 
chickens. In searing and sautéing, however, heat is transferred from only one side, 
which is well suited for flat fillets of fish or chicken breasts. This is why we flip pancakes 
(stovetop; heat from below) but not cakes (oven; heat from all directions). 
Substitute similar cooking techniques for ones you can’t do.
If you don’t have a grill (radiant; heat from below), try using a broiler (radiant; heat 
from above) because it’s the closest comparable technique (flip the food over, too—
the direction the heat enters a chicken from will change things!). If you don’t have a 
pressure cooker, use a pot full of liquid—both are wet cooking methods. 
Experiment by switching up techniques.
Pancake batter, when deep-fat fried, produces something a lot like a funnel cake. Eggs 
cook just fine on top of rice in a rice cooker—add the egg on top just after the rice is 
done cooking. Chocolate chip cookie dough can be cooked in a waffle iron. And pears 
poached in a dishwasher? Why not? (See page 326.) It might be unconventional, but 
heat doesn’t have to come from a traditional cooking appliance! 
Simmering
BoilingBaking
FryingBroilingGrilling
Temperature of Cooking Environment
200ºF
93ºC
320ºF
160ºC
440ºF
227ºC
560ºF
293ºC
680ºF
360ºC
16
 
14
 
12
 
10
 
8
 
6
 
4
 
2
 
0 MinutesSautéing
Poaching
Frying is fastest; baking is slowest. This plot shows the amount of time it took to heat the centers of uniformly 
sized pieces of tofu from 36°F / 2°C to 140°F / 60°C for each cooking method. Cooking pan material (cast 
iron, stainless steel, aluminum) and baking pan material (glass, ceramic) had only minor impact on 
total time for this experiment with tofu, but for other foods like cookies it will make a difference.Cooked = Time * Temperature 147
Salt-Roasted Fish with Lemon and Herbs
Salt can also be  used as a “heat shield” on food during cooking. Packing foods such as 
fish, meats, or potatoes in a mound of salt protects the outer surface of the food; the 
salt ends up taking the brunt of any radiant heat and also cuts down on evaporation, 
keeping the food moister. If a whole fresh fish isn’t easy to get, try this with other foods, 
such as pork loin (add spices—black pepper, cinnamon, cayenne pepper—to the salt 
mixture) or even entire standing rib roasts.
Snag a whole fish, such as striped bass or trout , in the range of 2 to 5 pounds / 
1 to 2 kilos. Clean and gut the fish, rinse it thoroughly, and add lemon slices and 
herbs  (try fresh dill or fresh oregano) in the center cavity. Leave the skin on; it’ll 
prevent the fish from getting too salty.
Prepare a salt mixture by adding just enough water  to a few cups of kosher salt  so 
that it forms a workable paste. You can use egg white  instead of water—useful if 
you’re covering something with a more complicated shape than fish.
Line a baking pan or cookie sheet with parchment paper (this’ll make cleanup 
easier), and add a thin layer of the salt mixture. Place the fish on top of the salt, 
and then pack the rest of the salt around the sides and top of the fish. You don’t 
need to bury the fish too deeply. Go for about ½” / 1 cm of salt on all sides—enough 
to take the brunt of the surface temperature, but not so much that the center of the 
fish takes too long to actually reach temperature.
Bake the fish in an oven set to 400–450°F / 200–230°C for 
about 20–30 minutes, using a probe thermometer 
to check that the internal temperature reaches 
125°F / 52°C. Remove the fish from the oven and 
let it rest 5–10 minutes (during which carryover 
will bring the temp up to 130°F / 54°C). Crack 
open the salt crust, brush off any salt sticking 
to the surface of the fish, and serve.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 14885°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats
All generalizations are false, including this one.
—Mark Twain
Here we are, at the first temperature range of the chapter. There’s one housekeeping detail 
I need to take care of first: the temperatures ranges for chemical reactions in foods are very, 
very  tricky to define due to rate of reaction. For practical purposes, the temperature ranges 
given in this chapter are those that are applicable in cooking. ( Collagen, which we’ll cover 
later, can technically denature below 104°F / 40°C, but you wouldn’t want to eat the results.) 
For fats, I’m generalizing their melting point. It’s a false generalization, but it’s still useful to 
understand the average for common fatty acids: many fats melt above room temperature 
but below body temperature. (This is one reason why one chocolate maker can say, “Melts 
in your mouth, not in your hand. ”)
41°F / 5°C  Oleic acid triglycerides melt
108–113°F / 42-45°C  Beef tallow melts  90–95°F / 32–35°C  Butter melts
91.5–95°F / 33-35°C  Cocoa fat (Form V) melts
41–44°F / 5–7°C  Coldest storage for olive fruits
(which are high in oleic acid triglycerides)101°F / 39°C  Body temperature of a cow68°F / 20°C  Butter
begins to soften40°F / 4.5°C  Cloud point of most plant oils
95°F / 35°C  Top of your tongue36°F / 2°C  Ideal fridge temperature115–120°F / 46-49°C  Shortening melts
Fats and oils are essential to food. They add flavor, like salted butter on top of great bread 
or a good olive oil on salad. They bring texture, giving cookies and muffins the ability to 
crumble and ice cream a luscious mouthfeel. And they’re used to cook foods, conducting 
and convecting heat in sautéing and frying. But what is fat? How does it work in cooking 
and in eating? And what the heck are saturated, omega-3, and trans fats? To answer these 
questions, we need to start with a few simple chemistry building blocks.
Fats and oils—which are simply fats that are liquid at room temperature, so I’ll just say 
“fats” from now on—are a type of lipid called triglycerides . The word triglyceride  describes 
the chemical structure of the lipid, and it’s this chemical structure that determines a fat’s 
properties. Tri is three, but three of what? It’s not three glycerides, but rather one glyceride 
that has three certain things attached to it. A glyceride  starts with a molecule of glycerol 
(the molecule gets a new name when it’s attached to certain things), so the first part of 
understanding fat is to look at a glycerol molecule.
This is what chemists call a line structure . You needn’t be a chemistry geek to understand this! 
The Os stand for oxygen and the Hs are hydrogen. The lines show where electrons are being 
shared between the atoms. Every time a line bends, or ends by itself (which doesn’t happen in 
glycerol), that means there’s a carbon atom, and usually some hydrogen atoms too.C
C
CH
H
H
HH OH
OHOH
A molecule of 
glycerol with all 
the atoms drawn.85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 149Carbon-based life forms contain a lot of carbon and hydrogen—about a fifth of you is 
carbon and a tenth is hydrogen! Those two elements are so common that line structures 
don’t show them when they’re by themselves. (Chemists, like cooks, have their equivalent 
of assuming you’ll know to add a pinch of salt.)
I’ve tinkered with the way this line structure is drawn; normally the shaded parts aren’t 
there. They show the carbon and hydrogen that a chemist would infer from how the 
lines are drawn. Carbon always has four bonds, so that’s why the middle C only has one 
hydrogen atom hanging off of it. Glycerol, the first building block in fats, has the molecular 
formula C3H8O3—three carbon, eight hydrogen, and three oxygen atoms—so counting all 
the Os, Hs, and Cs in the diagram will add up to that. (The molecular formula doesn’t tell 
you anything about the layout of the atoms, though!)
So that’s the first building block in the chemistry of fats: a glycerol molecule, holding onto 
three certain somethings. In fats, those somethings are three different fatty acids —chains 
of carbon atoms with a particular acid on one end ( carboxylic acid) that happens to attach 
to those OH points in glycerol. It’s pretty simple to understand looking at a picture, so here’s 
what one of the common ones, oleic acid, looks like.
HOO
1 23
457
689 10
1112
1314
1516
17 18
Oleic acid is a carbon chain, 18 carbons long, and has one double bond between the 9th and 10th carbon atoms.
Fatty acids are simple molecules with only two variables: how long the carbon chain is and 
if any of those connections are doubled up. Oleic acid has 18 carbon atoms (count ’em!) 
with  a double bond  between the 9th and 10th carbon atoms; you can see where one of the 
lines is drawn twice. A double bond occurs when the bond between one carbon atom and 
the adjacent one uses four electrons instead of two. If we were to add a hydrogen atom 
there, that double bond would become a regular bond, which would change the fatty acid. 
(In this case, oleic acid would become stearic acid.)
These double bonds are the secret to understanding fat. Saturated and unsaturated 
fats, omega-3 and omega-6 fats, trans fats, even the melting points of fats: these are all 
determined by where and how many of those double bonds there are.
Now you know the two building blocks of fats! Three fatty acids, plus a glycerol molecule, 
snap together to make up fats. (They happen to throw off a water molecule when bonding 
together—that’s why the diagrams are slightly different.) 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 150There are a few dozen common fatty acids, usually ranging 
between 8 and 22 carbons long and with 0 to 3 double 
bonds. Any given fat molecule can be a combination of a 
few dozen different fatty acids, meaning there are hundreds 
of possible variations of fat molecules. This is what creates so 
many complexities in fats!
Now that we’ve got the chemistry primer out of the way 
(fortunately, there’s no quiz), we can answer all the questions 
that have always bugged me about fats:
What’s the difference between saturated and unsaturated fats?
Fatty acids that have no double bonds between carbon atoms are called saturated  fatty 
acids. They’re saturated with hydrogen atoms; there’s no way to shove more in. Palmitic 
acid, pictured above, is saturated. If a fatty acid has just one double bond, it’s called 
monounsaturated —it’s possible to shove exactly one hydrogen molecule into the fatty 
acid, right where the double bond is. Oleic acid, as you’ve seen, is monounsaturated. 
Fatty acids with two or more double bonds in the chain are called polyunsaturated . The 
same definition applies for fats: the example fat pictured has two double bonds in it, 
making it polyunsaturated. When it comes to health, unsaturated fats are usually better 
than saturated, but not always. There are good saturated fats and bad unsaturated fats. 
Plants usually create unsaturated fats, but not always ( coconut oil, I’m looking at you); 
animals usually create saturated fats, but not always.
What determines the melting point of a fat molecule?
Melting point is determined by the shape of the fat molecule, which you can’t exactly 
see in the line structures, and how the molecules pack together. The shape is related 
to how many double bonds there are. Saturated fatty acids are extremely flexible—
they can bend and pivot around each of the carbon links—and they normally stretch 
out into a straight line that easily stacks together to form solids. Oils have more double 
bonds, which can’t pivot, so they’re more “bent out of shape, ” which makes it harder for 
them to pack together. More  double bonds = less saturated = lower melting point = 
more likely to be oil. How the molecules pack together also makes a huge difference. 
Triglycerides can solidify into three possible crystalline structures, each with its own 
melting point. (There are also some technical differences related to isomerization.) 
These different crystalline structures are the key to good chocolate, which we’ll cover in 
a few pages. Fatty acid chain from oleic acid 
OO
O
OOO Fatty acid chain from palmitic acid 
Another fatty acid chain from oleic acid 
Fat is three fatty acids attached to a glycerol molecule. 
This one is common in olive oil, making up about 
20–25% of the fat in it, and is polyunsaturated.85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 151What’s an omega-3 fatty acid? Or omega-6?
This is awesome to understand, given all the talk about their health benefits. Omega-3 
fatty acids have a  double bond at the third from last carbon atom (on the side opposite 
from the part that attaches to the glyceride). That’s it. Since there’s at least one double 
bond, they can’t be saturated fatty acids, by definition! Omega-6 is, as you’d imagine, 
a fatty acid that has a double bond at the sixth from last carbon atom. Oleic acid is an 
omega-9 fatty acid: try counting nine atoms in from the right on the diagrams. Your 
body needs omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids but can’t create them from other fatty 
acids, which is why they’re called essential. (That doesn’t mean more is better!)
Then what’s a trans fat?
Trans  is Latin for “across” or “opposite, ” as opposed to cis, which is Latin for “same. ” A trans fat 
is one where the carbon connections are on opposite sides of a double bond. Cis fats have 
the carbon connections on the same side of the double bond, and they’re super common—
it’s how nature makes fatty acids that have double bonds. ( Gut bacteria in animals actually 
convert some cis fat to trans fat, but not a lot—so trans fat does naturally occur. Dosage 
matters!) If you start with polyunsaturated fats and hydrogenate them—yes, this is the 
hydrogenated fat that shows up on ingredient labels, patented way back in 1902 by a 
German chemist—then you’re shoving hydrogen atoms into the fatty acids, changing some 
of the double bonds to regular bonds. This increases the melting point, making the fats solid 
at room temperature, which prevents them from migrating around the food. (Fun trivia: 
the name “Crisco” comes from crystalized cottonseed oil.) Its higher melting point is why we 
use butter instead of oil in baked goods; hydrogenating fats stiffens them up, making them 
suitable for a broader range of applications. But it’s also possible to make trans fats during 
hydrogenation because some processes used to add hydrogen atoms can also relocate 
existing ones. When this happens, a trans fat is created, and that fat has a 
structure that can stack on top of other trans fats. In large quantities this 
leads to health issues. (The molecules are “bent out of shape” in a way 
that happens to fit together.)
There’s one complication in the science of fat for cooks in the kitchen: 
the fats in animals and plants are mixtures of different types of fat 
molecules. If you had a container of just fats made of oleic acid (olive 
oil is mostly oleic acid), it would melt at exactly 41°F / 5°C. But there are 
other fatty acids in there, which is why a bottle of good olive oil turns 
cloudy but doesn’t solidify when stored in the fridge—some of the fats 
will solidify, while others will remain liquid.
A candle made from a wick dropped in 
rendered beef fat. Beef fat is mostly stearic 
and oleic fatty acids, so it’s solid at room 
temperature. Fat is a great energy source!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 152COOH
COOH
COOH
COOHCOOHCOOHCOOH
α-Linolenic  (18:3)
Linoleic (18:2)
Oleic (18:1)Stearic (18:0)
Palmitic (16:0)
Myristic (14:0)
Lauric (12:0)
11°F
–12°C19°F
–7°C55°F
13°C110°F
43°C128°F
53°C144°F
62°C157°F
69°C72°F / 22°C
Room Temperature
A few common fatty acids and their melting points—notice the much higher melting points for saturated fats 
(ones that have no double bonds, shown as “:0”) and that longer chains have higher melting points.
Why do some things melt and other things burn?
It depends on the properties of the compounds on hand. Melting is a physical change—a phase 
transition from solid to liquid that doesn’t change the molecular structure. Burning, on the other 
hand, is a chemical change (usually combustion or pyrolysis). Some substances melt and then burn, 
others will burn before melting, and yet others may or may not melt or burn. Foods are almost always 
mixtures of substances, making this more complicated. Take butter: as it’s heated, the fats melt first, and 
then at a higher temperature the milk solids burn. 
Fat Common fatty acids
Linoleic acid Oleic acid Lauric acid Myristic acid Palmitic acid
Butter4% 27% 2% 11% 30%
Lard6% 48% - 1% 27%
Coconut oil1% 6% 50% 18% 8%
Olive oil5-15% 65-85% - 0-1% 7-16%
Canola oil (low erucic/high 
oleic; a.k.a. rapeseed)20% 63% - - 4%
Safflower oil (high oleic)* 16-20% 75-80% - - 4.5%
Safflower oil (high linoleic)66-75% 13-21% - - 3-6%
Egg yolk16% 47% - 1% 23%
Cocoa butter3% 35% - - 25%
* Different varieties of the same plants can produce different fatty acid profiles. For example, safflower oil comes in two varieties: 
high oleic, which is used for cooking, and high linoleic, which is used in paints (and is similar to linseed oil). Some oils use different 
names to distinguish the varieties—canola is a low erucic acid variety of rapeseed, given a different name by industry. Growing 
conditions will also change the fatty acid composition.85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 153What Are the Various Temperatures for Fats?
Pour point
A fat needs to be at least this warm to be 
“pourable”—what you might think of as melted, 
but not necessarily completely liquid. Most nut 
oils have a pour point of around 34°F / 1°C.
Cloud point
This is the temperature below which a fat 
becomes cloudy while still being pourable. 
It’s not something you’d notice in the kitchen 
unless you keep oils too cold—it’s why we store 
olive oil on the counter, not in the fridge. Most 
nut oils become cloudy at around 40°F / 4.5°C.
Melting point
This is the temperature range at which 
enough fat molecules are melted that the fat 
is liquid. Almost all fats are mixtures of fatty 
acids in different crystalline forms, so in 
reality melting point is the temperature range 
over which the fat goes from hard to soft to 
liquid. We typically use fats that are solid at 
room temperature in baked goods, and fats 
that are liquid at room temperature (oil!) in 
salad dressings and dips. (The solidification 
point is often ~10°F / ~6°C colder.)
  ~25°F / ~–4°C: Olive oil
  90–95°F / 32–35°C: Butter
  95–113°F / 35–45°C: Lard
  115–120°F / 46–49°C: Shortening
Smoke point
This is the point at which the fat begins to 
thermally decompose. You’ll see wisps of 
smoke coming off a pan at this temperature, 
and it’s the temperature you want to hit when 
frying foods. Unrefined oils have particulate 
matter that burns, lowering the smoke point.  230°F / 110°C: Unrefined canola oil
  350–375°F / 177–191°C: Butter, vegetable 
shortening, lard
  400°F / 205°C: Olive oil
  450°F / 232°C: Safflower oil
  475°F / 245°C: Clarified butter, ghee, 
refined high oleic canola oil
  510°F / 265°C: Refined safflower oil
Flash point
At this  temperature, fat can catch fire but 
isn’t hot enough to sustain combustion. If you 
are sautéing something over a gas burner and 
you see some of the vapors flame up briefly, 
that’s what you’re seeing.
  540°F / 282°C: Lard
  610°F / 321°C: Olive oil
  630°F / 332°C: Canola oil
Fire point
This is the temperature at which a fat will 
continue to burn if ignited; it’s important 
for candles but definitely not good in the 
kitchen! If something does catch fire, remove 
it from the heat and put a lid on it.
  666°F / 352°F: Lard
  682°F / 361°C: Olive oil
  685°F / 363°C: Canola oil
Autoignition point
At this  temperature, a substance will 
spontaneously ignite without being lit. Rather 
necessary in gas car engines, but something 
to avoid in the kitchen.
  689°F / 365°C: Ethanol (alcohol)
  800–905°F / 427–485°C: Wood (pine, oak)
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 154Butter 
Butter is fascinating stuff. Unlike other culinary fats, butter isn’t pure fat. It’s a mixture 
of milk fats (80–86%) and water (13–19%), where the water contains proteins, minerals, 
water-soluble vitamins, and any added salt. Butter’s remarkable flavor comes from this 
unlikely combination of water mixed into fat, made possible because of how the  glyceride 
molecules in fat surround water droplets.
Butter is also remarkable for its melting temperatures. In the fridge, more than two-thirds 
of the fats are solid; left out on the counter on a warm summer day, only a third of the fats 
remain solid. This mixture of solid and liquid fats makes butter the only natural fat that’s 
plastic —deformable and spreadable while retaining its shape—at room temperature. 
The fatty acids in butter (mostly myristic, oleic, and palmitic acids) are present in different 
combinations of fat molecules that melt at temperatures between –11°F / –24°C and 164°F 
/ 73°C; based on the normal composition, butter softens around 68°F / 20°C and melts at 
about 95°F / 35°C.
Making great butter is a lot more complicated than merely 
separating the fats from the cream by churning. Changes 
in the size of the fat globules in the butter, based on how 
quickly the cream is cooled during pasteurization, will change 
the texture, as does the amount of water left in the churned butter. Milk fats can also vary 
in their fatty acid composition. If the cream has larger amounts of warmer-melting fats 
than normal, then the butter ends up being soft. (The ratio of the fatty acids depends on 
the cow’s diet; cream from grass-fed cows has less saturated fat and a lower melting point.) 
It’s worth making your own butter once to understand the process, but in practice, buying 
butter is far easier and more economical. But which type? And how to store it? Here are a 
few tips:
Salted and unsalted butter
Salted butter is great for eating—hopefully you know the joy of slathering a hearty 
pat of room temperature, salted butter onto a slice of freshly baked bread. Because 
the amount of salt in salted butter can vary (1.5–3%), though, it's better to use 
unsalted butter in cooking so that you can add in a known 
amount of salt. When you see “butter” in a recipe, 
including in this book, use unsalted butter by 
default. Salted butter has one other benefit: 
salt inhibits bacterial growth, making salted 
butter less likely to spoil when stored at room 
temperature.To see a video of how butter is made, see 
http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/butter/ .
85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 155Sweet cream versus cultured butter
Butter was traditionally made using cream from milk that had been left out to separate; 
by the time the cream had floated to the top, it had fermented and gone slightly sour. 
(Leave it out longer, and you get sour cream!) Most Americans are used to sweet cream 
butter that’s made from cream that hasn’t fermented; in Europe and elsewhere, the 
cream is allowed to partly ferment, thus creating cultured butter.
Storing butter
The ideal butter is firm enough to retain its granular structure but soft enough to be 
spreadable, having a texture technically described as waxy. This simply isn’t possible with 
butter stored in the fridge. It’s safe to store salted butter on the counter; use a container 
that blocks light and limits airflow, and consume it within two weeks to avoid rancidity. 
(Oxygen can insert itself into the fatty acid, leading to butyric acid—which gets its name 
from rancid butter!) Unsalted butter should be kept in the fridge and left to warm for an 
hour before use; this step is essential for proper mixing with sugar when you are baking. 
Baking with butter
Solid butter will mix differently into doughs and batters than melted butter will. Mixing 
solid butter with sugar will create small air bubbles; if melted fat is creamed with sugar, it’ll 
coat the sugar granules instead of trapping small air bubbles. Melting butter also separates 
out the water, allowing it to form more gluten than it would otherwise (see page 249). Also, 
different brands of butter can have slight differences in the amount of water present. This 
can impact baked goods like pies; try using higher-fat butter for buttery baked foods.
Homemade sour cream
Cultured butter starts with slightly soured cream—but what if you let it ferment 
even longer? You’d end up with sour cream! The flavor and creaminess is 
unmatched by what you can buy, and it’s incredibly easy to make.
Snag a container of heavy cream  from the store, open it, and add a spoonful 
of plain unflavored yogurt  that has active bacteria in it. Close the container and 
briefly shake it. If you have a slow or pressure cooker with a yogurt mode, place the 
container in the cooker, submerged in an inch of water, and ferment it for 12 hours; 
otherwise, culture the cream by leaving the container on your kitchen counter for a 
day or so. Store the sour cream in the fridge and use it within a week.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 156Clarified Butter, Browned Butter, and Ghee
Making clarified butter involves heating butter to boil off all the water and then straining 
out the milk solids, a form of heat clarification . Without the milk solids, clarified butter 
has a higher smoke point of around 450°F / 230°C.
To make clarified butter:  Melt 1 cup (230g) butter and, if it’s unsalted, ¾ 
teaspoon (5g) salt  in a saucepan over medium heat, or in a covered container in a 
microwave. You’ll see the melted butter begin to froth; this is the water steaming up. 
After a few minutes, the water will have evaporated, leaving you with butter and a 
whitish substance, which is the milk solids. Remove the pan from the heat and either 
carefully pour off the fat, leaving behind the milk solids, or strain the liquid through 
a fine mesh strainer. You can use clarified butter to sauté fish and roast vegetables 
and to fry breadcrumbs and bread like English muffins.
With browned butter and ghee you can take the clarification process a step further by 
toasting the milk solids to impart an aromatic, rich flavor into the fat. Browned butter leaves 
the toasted milk solids in, which is great for flavoring, while ghee filters them out, allowing 
for a much higher smoke point—you can use ghee but not browned butter for frying.
Ghee was first used in Indian cooking and typically made from cow or buffalo milk 
that’s sometimes cultured (fermented like yogurt). It’s a simple solution to the lack 
of refrigeration, which is why it’s common in the cuisines of warmer climates. Why 
make your own? The compounds created by the Maillard reaction aren’t shelf-stable. 
Reaction products from the initial stage continue to break down over a few weeks in the 
ghee, increasing the amount of acetic acid (think white vinegar) and leading to flavor 
changes—freshly made stuff will taste different!
To make browned butter and ghee:  Start with the directions for clarified butter, 
but continue the cooking process to lightly toast the milk solids. Keep a watchful eye 
and remove them from the heat once they begin to turn brown. Darker brown milk 
solids will give you a more aromatic flavor. If you’re making ghee, allow the mixture 
to rest for at least 5–10 minutes and then filter; the rest time will allow flavors from 
the toasted milk solids to dissolve into the fat.
Try using browned butter in baked goods like pancakes, muffins, or cookies 
(madeleines!): for butter, substitute 85% browned butter and 15% water—roughly 
7 tablespoons (100g) browned butter + 1 tablespoon (15 mL) water for each ½ 
cup (115g) of butter (if your recipe calls for creaming, add the water to the wet 
ingredients). Or try using it to make a sauce: melt the browned butter, and add a 
squirt of lemon juice and some fragrant herbs, such as sage. 
Try using ghee anywhere you would normally use a high-heat oil, such as in frying or 
roasting.85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 157Chocolate, Cocoa Fats, and Tempering
Mmm , chocolate. Sweet, bitter; sometimes nutty, fruity, or spicy. It brings joy, pleasure, 
and for some, relief from negative moods. Any way you describe it, it’s delicious. No, really, 
scientifically, it’s delicious. Every single culture that’s ever been introduced to chocolate has 
accepted and desired it, a feat perhaps envied by bacon.
Part of what makes chocolate great is its texture and the way it snaps. That texture comes 
from how the sugar and fats in chocolate are mixed together  (conched ) and how cocoa fats 
are melted, cooled, and tempered —controlling the specific crystalline structure of the cocoa 
fats as they set during cooling. Tempered chocolate is used on the outside of chocolate 
truffles, for dipping fruits like dried apricots or fresh strawberries, and for covering baked 
goods and confections. It’s amazing that changing one thing—the way that triglycerides are 
stacked together—can change so much!
To understand tempering, we need to look at what 
chocolate itself is. Chocolate, at its simplest, is made up of 
cocoa butter and cocoa solids, both derived from the seeds 
of the Theobroma cacao  plant. Sugar is added to sweeten 
it; sometimes other ingredients like milk and vanilla are 
also added for flavoring. Cocoa butter —really, cocoa fat—
consists of triglycerides from the plant’s seeds, mostly 
made up of myristic, oleic, and palmitic acid (which is very close to butter’s composition, 
hence the similarity in melting points!). Cocoa solids  are what’s left over after the fat is 
removed; ground up and processed, they become cocoa powder , a rich dark powder that 
brings almost all of the flavor to chocolate. Dutched cocoa powder  is processed to improve 
solubility (it’ll mix better—it’s more hydrophilic) and alter the flavor. (The Dutching 
process raises the pH of cocoa powder, which is why Dutched cocoa powder shouldn’t be 
substituted for regular cocoa powder in baked goods that rely on it to react with baking 
soda; see page 273 for more).
Cacao  versus cocoa  is a bit of an etymological mystery. In Spanish, it’s always 
cacao , but somewhere along the way the metathesis cocoa  entered the English 
language—perhaps in 1755 through dictionary maker Samuel Johnson, who had 
an entry for cocoa  (and a note, “more properly written cacao ”).
These days, in English, cacao  is usually used to describe the plant and any 
unprocessed parts from it, and cocoa  is used to describe products derived from the 
dried and fermented seeds. As an ingredient, cocoa  can also refer to cocoa powder  
under US definitions, to the great frustration of Spanish translators.
M&Ms were developed in 1940 by Frank C. Mars 
and his son, Forrest Mars, Sr. During the Spanish 
Civil War (1936–1939), Forrest saw Spanish 
soldiers eating chocolate that had been 
covered in sugar as a way of “packaging” the 
chocolate to prevent it from making a mess. 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 158When chocolate is melted and tempered, it’s the cocoa fats that actually melt. Cocoa 
solids don’t melt, so it’s not technically accurate to say “melting chocolate. ” You temper 
chocolate by melting and then selectively solidifying the fats in cocoa fat. It can be an 
intimidating and finicky process. The traditional method is to heat the chocolate above 
110°F / 43°C, then cool it to around 82°F / 28°C, and then reheat it to between 89°F / 31.5°C 
and 91°F / 32.5°C. Once it’s at this temperature, you must perform a thermal balancing 
act: too warm, you lose the temper; too cold, it hardens. Making great chocolate requires 
a great understanding of temperature, whether you use a good thermometer or careful 
observation (~90°F / 32°C happens to be just about the temperature of your lips).
But where do these temperatures come from? Cocoa fat can solidify into a crystalline 
structure in six possible different forms, based on how the fatty acids in the triglycerides are 
arranged, and each one of those forms melts at a slightly different temperature. The key to 
tempering is in changing how the fats crystallize; once melted, they can recrystallize into 
any of the six forms. It’s for this reason that tempering works at all. Tempering coerces the 
fats to solidify into the desired structure; in a properly tempered chocolate 3–8% of its mass 
consists of “good” cocoa fat crystals.
68ºF
20ºC
Room
Temp.68ºF
20ºC
63ºF
17.2ºC64ºF
17.8ºC74ºF
23.3ºC76ºF
24.4ºC78ºF
25.6ºC
97.3ºF
36.3ºC82ºF
27.8ºC
81ºF
27.2ºC
83ºF
28.3ºC91.5ºF
33ºCForm I Form II Form III
95ºF
35ºC
94.3ºF
34.6ºCForm IVForms I - IV crystallize
(undesirable)
Form VIForms V and VI crystallize
(desirable)
Form V
100ºF75ºF68ºF
20ºC
Room
Temp.68ºF
20ºC
63ºF
17.3ºC64ºF
17.9ºC74ºF
23.3ºC76ºF
24.4ºC78ºF
25.5ºC
93ºF
33.8ºC94.3ºF
34.6ºC97.3ºF
36.3ºC
82ºF
27.7ºC
81ºF
27.3ºC
83ºF
28.4ºC91.5ºF
33ºC95ºF
35ºCForm V crystallizes
(desireable)Form VI
crystallizes
(undesireable)
Form I Form II Form III
Form IVi
i
iiForms I - IV crystallizes
(undesireable)i
100ºF 75ºF
Melting points of the six polymorphs of cocoa fat.
Good cocoa fat crystals come in two forms, called Form V and Form VI. (The standard 
classification comes from a 1966 research paper; other researchers call these two forms 
beta2 and beta1 crystals.) These two versions can crystallize into a tighter grid, creating a 
firmer structure that gives chocolate a pleasing smoothness and firm snap when broken. 
(This has to do with the shape of the triglycerides of Forms V and VI, which can pack 
together more tightly than the other forms.) The other four crystalline structures, Forms I–
IV, lead to a softer, chewier texture.
Chocolate can go bad (the horrors!) if exposed to extreme temperature swings, which will 
slowly convert the good cocoa fat crystals to Forms I–IV. Such chocolate is described as having 
bloomed , having a splotchy appearance and a gritty texture. Blooming happens because 
about a quarter of the cocoa fat is still liquid at room temperature, and with subtle changes 85°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 159in temperature over time those liquid fats can migrate to the surface, recrystallizing the good 
fats in the process. (If the entire bar just crumbles up like chalk, then the sugar has bloomed 
from moisture. Melt the whole bar and retemper it, and store it in a drier place next time.)
Like most natural fats, the fats in cocoa butters are a mix of different types of triglycerides 
(mostly made up of stearic, oleic, and palmitic acids). Plus, the T. cacao  plants don’t all grow 
exactly the same. Chocolate from beans grown at lower elevations, for example, will have 
a mixture of fats with a slightly higher melting point than chocolate from beans grown at 
higher, cooler elevations. Still, the temperature variances are relatively narrow, so the ranges 
used here will generally work for dark chocolates. Milk chocolates require temperatures 
about 2°F / 1°C cooler; the additional ingredients affect the melting points of the different 
crystalline forms. When looking at chocolate for tempering, make sure it does not have other 
fats or lecithin added because these ingredients will also affect the melting point—more 
than about 0.5% lecithin will greatly slow down the tempering rate.
Luckily for chocolate lovers worldwide, chocolate has two quirks that make it so enjoyable. 
For one, the undesirable forms of fat all melt below 90°F / 32°C, while the desirable forms 
noticeably melt around 94°F / 34.4°C. If you heat the chocolate to a temperature between 
these two points, the undesirable forms melt and then solidify into the desirable form. The 
second happy quirk is a matter of simple biology: the temperature of the inside of your 
mouth is in the range of 95–98.6°F / 35–37°C, just above the melting point of tempered 
chocolate, while the surface temperature of your hand is below this point. 
Traditional tempering works by melting all forms of fat in the chocolate, cooling it to a 
low enough temperature to trigger nucleation formation (i.e., causing some of the fat to 
crystallize into seed crystals, including some of the undesirable forms), and then raising it 
to a temperature high enough to melt Form I–IV crystals but cool enough for Forms V–VI to 
crystallize. This three-temperature process requires a watchful eye and, during the second 
and third steps, stirring to encourage the crystals to form while keeping them small. 
What causes seized chocolate?
Assume you haven’t been caught smuggling chocolate between countries, seized chocolate  is what 
happens when a small amount of moisture gets mixed into the cocoa solids and fats. Think of what 
happens when a few drops of water are mixed into dry sand: it clumps up. It’s exactly the same 
with chocolate. The cocoa solids are like the sand, but instead of being surrounded by air, they’re 
surrounded by fat. Try pinching some cocoa powder between two dry fingers and rubbing; it’ll be 
smooth. Add a tiny amount of water and it seizes up; add a bit more water, and it’s back to being 
smooth. If you get water in your chocolate, you’ll have to mix in more liquid—about 20–40% by weight 
depending upon the amount of cocoa solids present—for the mixture to be able to flow again. You’ll 
be stuck with chocolate that won’t solidify, but it’s great for making ganache (see page 281)!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 160Some tempering methods call for adding chopped-up chocolate at the second temperature 
point to rapidly seed the chocolate; this also accelerates cooling, which can be useful. It’s 
also possible to temper small amounts of already-tempered chocolate (bars, not chocolate 
chips, which won’t be tempered—that’s why they’re cheaper!) by bringing it directly up 
to ~90°F / 32°C, either with careful control in a microwave (nuke for 10-second intervals, 
stirring each time, and make sure that temperature doesn’t exceed 92°F / 33.3°C) or in a 
water bath (see page 339).
To make tempering easier, use couverture  chocolate (couverture is French for “cover”); this is 
chocolate used for covering other foods like fruits or cakes that is easier to temper due to a 
higher percentage of cocoa fats. In the EU, couverture chocolate must be at least 31% cocoa 
fat (not cocoa solids!); the US has no legal definition. With more cocoa fats in the mix, it’s 
easier to get a sufficient quantity to correctly crystallize and give the right metastructure. If 
you can’t find it, or you enjoy the experimentation process, buy cocoa fat and add 10% by 
weight to your chocolate as it melts. Make sure you buy cocoa fat and not white chocolate, 
which is only ~20–25% cocoa fat!
3
295ºF / 35ºC
91.5ºF / 33ºC
90ºF / 32.2ºC~90ºF / 32.2ºC
83ºF / 28.4ºC
~82ºF / 27.8ºC~110ºF / 43ºC Most fats melted
Nucleation sites formedTraditional tempering process
Form V
melts
Forms
I-IV
meltA curve like this won't work well, because it will take
hours if not days for enough nucleation sites (seed crystals) to form.
Room temp.
Temperature
TimeWith controlled heat (e.g., sous vide), already
tempered chocolate won’t lose its Form V
crystals. It will take longer to temper, though.185°F / 30°C: Average Melting Point of Fats 161
DIY Bittersweet Chocolate Bar
A bar of bittersweet chocolate  is typically 54–80% 
cocoa. Both EU food law and the US FDA’s definition 
merely lump bittersweet bars in with semisweet 
chocolate (“not less than 35 percent by weight”), 
but as a guideline, they’re roughly 30% cocoa fat, 
40% cocoa powder, and 30% sugar. When you 
see a bar of chocolate that says 70% bittersweet 
chocolate , that’s the amount of cocoa fat and cocoa 
powder. One manufacturer’s 70% might be 30 / 40% 
fat/powder; another's could be 35 / 35%. Because 
cocoa powder is bitter—cocoa fat tastes something 
like shortening—a bar made with less cocoa powder 
and more cocoa butter will taste sweeter, even 
though both bars are 70%.
Cocoa powder, cocoa fats, and sugar are mixed 
together in a process called conching . Rodolphe 
Lindt, a Swiss entrepreneur, developed the conching 
process based on equipment he’d purchased from a 
spice mill back in 1879. The mixture is kept warm 
while being rolled between grindstones for anywhere 
from 6 to 72 hours, with longer times producing 
smoother textures by breaking up the sugar crystals 
and cocoa solids. To see what chocolate was like 
before Lindt’s improvements, try making your own 
small sample of unconched chocolate.
In a small bowl, melt 1 tablespoon (9g) of cocoa 
butter —assuming small pellets— either in a pan of 
simmering water or the microwave. 
Remove the butter from the heat or the microwave 
and add 2 teaspoons (10g) of sugar  and 2 
tablespoons (12g) of cocoa powder . Using a 
spoon, mix thoroughly, stirring for 1–2 minutes.Unsweetened chocolate is generally not conched 
(a few premium brands do conche theirs, as the 
cocoa solids still benefit). If you can’t find cocoa 
butter, try using 7 parts unsweetened chocolate  
to 3 parts sugar  instead.
If you like, temper the chocolate following the 
temperature guidelines described in this section. 
Transfer it to a flexible mold or parchment-paper-
lined container and allow it to cool in the fridge.
You’ll notice when tasting this chocolate that the 
initial flavor is astringent and bitter, followed 
by a sweeter, possibly floral taste as the sugar 
dissolves in your mouth. Using superfine sugar 
instead will give a smoother texture, but the 
chocolate won’t have the same mouthfeel as a 
conched bar.
Try experimenting by adding other ingredients—
roasted nuts, cinnamon, chili flakes, ginger, 
cocoa nibs, sea salt, ground coffee beans, mint 
leaves, bacon . All the flavored bars of chocolate 
you see at the stores are simple to make!
A close-up view of the difference between commercially conched 
chocolate (top) and this DIY unconched chocolate (bottom).
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 162104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and 
Meat Proteins Start to Denature
Fish and meat, properly cooked, can be the centerpieces of the most amazing meals of a 
lifetime. Not to sound too much like a carnivore, but some of my fondest food memories 
involve things like my dad’s holiday turkey or discovering duck confit for the first time. What 
makes a turkey or duck leg delicious is a combination of six variables: appearance, aroma, 
flavor, juiciness, tenderness, and texture. As a cook, you steer these last two factors through 
time and temperature, and proper cooking can lead to amazing tenderness and texture. But 
to understand how to get there, we have to look at what meat itself is.
Chances are, you haven’t given much thought to the chemical reactions that happen in 
animal tissues when the animal is slaughtered. The most important change is, quite literally, 
that the circulatory system is no longer supplying muscle tissues with glycogen from the 
liver or oxygen-carrying blood. Without oxygen, cells in the tissues die, and preexisting 
glycogen in the muscle tissue dissipates. The thick and thin myofilaments in the muscle 
begin to consume the freed glycogen, resulting in the state called rigor mortis —Latin for 
“stiff death”—the stiffness created by the myofilaments binding together.
Somewhere around 8 to 48 hours later, the glycogen supply begins to taper off and 
enzymes naturally present in the meat begin to break down the bonds created during rigor 
mortis ( postmortem proteolysis ). Butchering before this process has run its course will affect 
the texture of the meat, as will the levels of glycogen present in the animal at slaughter. 
Long-term stress on the animal decreases the amount of glycogen in the muscle tissue at 
slaughter, causing pH changes post-slaughter that lead to faster-spoiling meat. Short-term 
stress spikes right before death ( antemortem ) increase glycogen in the blood, accelerating 
the rigor mortis phase and leading to pale, soft meat or fish that degrades. How a fish is 
killed will change its texture!
131ºF / 55ºC Glycogen (“animal starch”) breaks down into simple sugars104ºF / 40ºC Myosin in /f_ish begins to denature
122ºF / 50ºC Myosin in meat begins to denature
150–163ºF / 66–73ºC Actin denatures, causes reduction in juiciness and increases toughness133–144ºF / 56–62ºC Collagen denatures given suﬃcient time140ºF / 60ºC Myoglobin begins to denature, causing red meat to change color
130–140°F / 54–60°C Meat cooked "medium-rare"140–145°F / 60–63°C Meat cooked "medium"165°F / 74°C Meat cooked "well done"; FDA Food Code "instant kill" temperature for food safety300ºF 200ºF 100ºF
Denaturation temperatures of various types of proteins (top portion) and standard doneness levels (bottom portion).104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and Meat Proteins Start to Denature 163Differences caused by butchering processes and how animals are handled are quite 
noticeable. Sensory panels have found that chicken breasts cut off the carcass before rigor 
mortis was complete have a tougher texture than meat left on the bone longer. (I knew  
there was a reason why roasted whole birds taste better!) 
Other than shopping wisely, you have little control over how your fish and meats are 
handled before they end up at the store. Extremely cheap cuts of meats injected with 
brines, or poorly frozen fish, will provide nutrition but won’t have as good a texture. If your 
dishes are turning out subpar, check the quality of your ingredients and avoid labels that 
say “marinated” or “flavored. ” If you are able to, find a fishmonger or butcher who can source 
properly handled fish and meats.
The challenge in cooking fish and meats invariably comes down to cooking them at temperatures 
high enough to kill pathogens but low enough to not overtighten the proteins. Fish and land 
animals are mostly water (65–80%), protein (16–22%), and fat (1.5–13%), with sugars such as 
glycogen (0.5–1.3%) and minerals (1%) contributing only a minor amount of the mass.
How much of the proteins are cooked determines a lot about the texture—tenderness 
versus toughness, dryness—in the cooked item. Proteins in meat can be divided into 
three general categories: structural, connective, and sarcoplasmic proteins. We’ll ignore 
the sarcoplasmic ones; they don’t impact cooking like the others. (If you’re into pumping 
iron, it is these proteins that you’ll be working on.) The structural and connective proteins, 
however, are of great importance.
Why Is Some Meat White and Other Meat Red?
Marketing aside— “Pork. The Other White Meat.” —
red meat is defined as meat that has more 
myoglobin protein than chicken. What gives meat 
its color isn’t blood, but proteins. Myoglobin  is 
purplish; when it gloms onto oxygen and becomes 
oxymyoglobin , it turns red. (Now you know why 
anatomy models have blue veins and red arteries!)
Chicken breast has very little myoglobin protein 
(0.05 mg/g), chicken thigh has about 2 mg/g, 
pork has 1–3 mg/g, and beef can reach up to 10 
mg/g. There’s less pigment, so to speak, in pig 
than cow, which is why it looks lighter, but still 
more than in chicken (sorry, marketing people).
Dark meats—think chicken thighs—have higher 
levels of myoglobin, which makes sense: the myoglobin provides oxygen to muscle tissue, 
and for the parts of an animal responsible for 
walking or flapping wings, more oxygen is needed. 
The color of meat also changes based on oxygen 
exposure, pH levels, and storage conditions, which 
is why cooked meats sometimes look pink while 
undercooked meats can turn brown.
On a related note, if you’ve ever noticed ground 
meat go from red to brown, it’s due to either 
myoglobin not being exposed to oxygen or 
oxymyoglobin no longer being able to hold 
on to its oxygen (one of the iron ions in its 
structure can lose an electron) and converting to 
metmyoglobin, which is brownish. Either way, it’s 
not a sign of spoilage.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 164Structural proteins  (myofibrillar ) enable muscles to contract. About 70–80% of the 
protein in fish is structural; for land mammals, it’s about 40–50%. When heated, proteins 
in this category set into a gel-like structure, which is why protein can act as a binder —
an ingredient that holds foods together. There are several different types of myofibrillar 
proteins:
• Myosin  makes up the majority of myofibrillar protein—about 55%—and is what 
actually contracts, using  adenosine triphosphate (ATP) as a source of energy. 
Going back to rigor mortis, glycogen is converted to ATP and generates lactic acid 
as a byproduct. The amount of glycogen in just-slaughtered meat determines 
how much lactic acid will be generated as myosin burns through the remaining 
glycogen supply.
• Actin  makes up about 25% of myofibrillar protein and binds with myosin; it’s that 
binding that turns the two into a machine that can contract a muscle.
• Other myofibrillar proteins help hold together the myosin–actin machinery. 
Some of them— titin , nebulin , and desmin —are broken down over time by 
calpain enzymes and change the meat’s texture, with notable textural differences 
happening starting a week after slaughter and continuing for several weeks. This is 
why aged steak has a more tender texture.
The third category of proteins, connective (stromal ) proteins such as  collagen, provides 
structure in muscle tissues like tendons. About 3% of protein in a fish is connective 
protein—in sharks, 10%! For a mammal, its connective proteins are about 17%. 
Understanding collagen in cooking is important enough that we’ll cover it separately later 
in this chapter (see page 195); for now, just know that high-collagen cuts of meat require 
their own cooking techniques.
The amount of the structural proteins actin and myosin differs by animal type and region, 
and the actual chemical structures of the proteins differ too—myosin is a family of proteins, 
and mammals have evolved to have different versions of the proteins from sea creatures. 
Myosin in fish begins to noticeably denature at temperatures as low as 104°F / 40°C; 
actin denatures at around 140°F / 60°C. In land animals, which have to survive warmer 
environments and heat waves, myosin denatures in the range of 122–140°F / 50–60°C and 
actin denatures at around 150–163°F / 66–73°C.
Dry, overcooked meats aren’t tough because of lack of water inside the meat; they’re tough 
because on a microscopic level, the proteins have become so tangled together that they 
become chewy. Applying heat to meats changes their texture by physically altering the 
proteins on the microscopic scale: as the proteins denature, they loosen up and uncurl. In 
addition to denaturing, upon uncurling, newly exposed regions of one protein can come 104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and Meat Proteins Start to Denature 165into contact with regions of another protein and form a bond, allowing them to link to 
each other. This process is called coagulation , and while it typically occurs in cooking that 
involves protein denaturation, it is a separate phenomenon.
Researchers have determined through empirical data (“total chewing work” and “total 
texture preference” being my favorite terms) that the optimal texture of cooked meats 
occurs when they are cooked to 140–153°F / 60–67°C, the range that nicely lines up with 
temperatures at which myosin will have denatured but actin will remain in its native form. 
In this temperature range, fish is moist but not dry and red meat will typically have a pinkish 
color with juices that run dark red—although not always.
While hard to prove, the coincidence of the temperature ranges for ideal texture being 
above myosin’s denaturation point and below actin’s highly suggests that texture is based 
on the state of those two proteins. This lines up for both fish and mammalian temperatures, 
and extended hold periods at these temperatures eliminate the possibility that it’s merely 
a time-and-temperature rate-related effect. So, if you take only one thing away from this 
section, let it be this: denatured myosin = yummy; denatured actin = yucky. Of course, 
there are other proteins in play as well, and subtle changes in temperature will change the 
textural impact as those also denature, but with the vast majority of the muscle tissue being 
actin and myosin, those two proteins seem to be the key to good texture.
You can improve the texture of some cuts of meat by tenderizing them. Marinades and 
brines chemically tenderize the flesh, either enzymatically (relying on compounds like 
bromelain , from pineapple, which breaks down connective tissues; or papain , from papaya, 
which does more to muscle fibers) or by acting as a solvent (some proteins are soluble 
in salt solutions). Heat-activated chemical  tenderizers are also sometimes injected into 
packaged meats. Dry aging steaks works by giving enzymes naturally present in the 
meat time to break down the structure of collagen and the myosin–actin machinery. 
Dry aging also changes the flavor of the meat: less-aged beef tastes more metallic and 
“bloodlike, ” while more-aged beef tastes gamier. Which is “better” is a matter of personal 
taste preference. (Perhaps some of us are physiologically more sensitive to metallic tastes.) 
The red meat you buy at your grocer is typically five to seven days old, whereas some 
restaurants use red meats aged two to three weeks.
Then there are the mechanical methods for tenderizing, which aren’t actually so much 
tenderizing as they are cutting up the tough bits into smaller tough bits. Grinding meat 
for things like hamburgers slices up connective proteins and the myofibrillar structure. 
Thinly slicing muscle “against the grain”—perpendicular to the direction of the myofibrillar 
structure—also works, as is done in steak tartare (see page 174) and London broil. Some 
meat is microscopically sliced by very thin needles, sort of like stabbing it with a fork over 
and over. As we’ll see in the next section (on food safety), this has some potential issues.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 166Eggs
117ºF
47ºC141ºF
60.5ºC142ºF
61ºC160ºF
71ºCSalmonella 
dies (eventually)
120ºF
49ºCYolk in a Sunny-Side-
up / Over-easy EggPasteurized after 3.5 minutes
Proteins begin to coagulate
USDA Guideline
145ºF
63ºCSalmonella inactivated at 15 seconds
170ºF
77ºCHard cooked
Beef & Red Meats
145ºF
63ºC131ºF
55ºCBacillus cereus
dies (eventually)USDA Guideline Steaks + Roasts
USDA Guideline
Ground Meat
160ºF
71ºCFDA Food Code for Ground Meat
155ºF
68ºC
125ºF
51.5ºCRare
130ºF
54.5ºCMedium-rare
140ºF
60ºCMedium
150ºF
65.5ºCMedium-well 
155ºF
68ºC160ºF
71ºC170ºF
76.5ºCWell-done Shoe sole**Requires pasteurizationPoultry
131ºF
55ºCBacillus cereus
dies (eventually)USDA Guideline
165ºF
74ºC
140ºF
60ºC150ºF
65ºC 165ºF
74ºCMedium**
Done
PorkTrichinella eventually dies 
(It’s no longer found in US food supply, but can be elsewhere)
USDA Guideline
(hold for 1 minute)Trichinella pasteurization
160ºF
71ºC140ºF
60ºC137ºF
58ºC
160ºF
71ºC165ºF
74ºCWell-done
140ºF
60ºC145ºF
63ºCMediumFish & SeafoodListeria monocytogenes
dies (eventually)USDA Guideline
145ºF
63ºC113ºF
45ºC
*Seafood cooked in these temperature ranges
  should be considered raw / undercooked116ºF
46.5ºCRare*
120ºF
49ºCMedium-rare*
125ºF
51.5ºC130ºF
54.5ºCMedium*Temperate Chart for Doneness104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and Meat Proteins Start to Denature 167
Buttermilk-Marinated Skirt Steak
Most cuts of beef are from animals that are grain-finished —switched to a diet that 
includes grains for a few months before slaughtering—as opposed to grass-fed , which I 
call “grass-finished” because all cows start on grass. Grain finishing results in cuts like 
ribeye and strip steak having over twice as much fat as their grass-finished counterparts 
(around 5.2% intramuscular fat instead of 2.3%). No wonder cooking grass-finished cuts 
is tougher!
Most marinade ingredients don’t penetrate very far into meat, but enzymatic agents and 
acids do, given time. As a general rule of thumb, small molecules like sodium ions from 
salt take about 24 hours to travel an inch through cuts of meats. This is why marinade-
based recipes call for long hold times—it’s not just a matter of how strong the marinade 
will be, but how much of the tissue will be exposed to it.
In theory, using the right marinade on extremely lean cuts of meat, especially grass-
fed cuts, should improve their texture. Enzymatic tenderizers are used in commercial 
processing where they can be exposed to the meat early in the slaughtering process; 
home use can lead to mushy textures. Lactic acid, and potentially calcium, in buttermilk 
will tenderize meats and doesn’t have this issue.
In practice, there’s a lot of debate about marinades impacting meat texture. Visual 
inspection of a marinated piece of meat sliced in half only shows a change in a thin 
outer layer, and flavor tests seem to support this. But textural differences are not the 
same thing as flavor! Clearly, acids and salts do penetrate through tissues: a scallop 
marinated ceviche-style and sliced in half shows visible differences. Experiment and see 
what you think.
Place one ~2 pound (1 kg) flank or skirt steak  in a resealable bag and add several 
cups of buttermilk , enough to keep the meat submerged when the bag is set down. 
If you like, add herbs and spices to the buttermilk—try the zest from one lemon  
and a few sliced-up garlic cloves . Let the bag rest in the fridge for 8–24 hours. 
Remove the meat from the bag, discarding the marinade, and pan-sear the meat 
in a hot cast iron pan for 2–3 minutes per side. Slice against the grain, cutting 
perpendicular to the muscle fibers, for the best texture.
This marinade is good with other meats too. Try chicken, letting it marinate for at 
least 12 hours.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 168Olive Oil Poached Salmon
Fishes like salmon and Atlantic char become dry and lose their delicate flavors when 
overcooked. The trick with poaching fish is to use a low temperature and give it time to 
cook. Poaching is an easy way to control the rate of heat being applied, and the results 
are amazingly tasty.
Place a fillet of fish, skin side down, in an oven-safe bowl just large enough for the 
fish to fit. Sprinkle a generous pinch of salt on top of the fish. Cover it with olive oil 
until the fillet is submerged. (Using a bowl that “just fits” the fish will cut down on 
the amount of olive oil needed.)
Place the fish into a preheated oven, set to medium heat (325–375°F / 160–190°C).
For a rare texture—amazing with good salmon—cook for about 15–20 minutes, 
using a probe thermometer set to beep at 115°F / 46°C. (Cooked rare, fish should be 
considered raw/undercooked unless pasteurized—see page 331 for more.) 
For medium doneness, cook for about 20–25 minutes, until the interior reaches 130°F 
/ 54°C.
Remove the fish when the thermometer goes off, letting carryover bring the 
temperature up a few more degrees. 
Notes
• Try serving the fish on top of a portion of brown or 
wild rice and spooning sautéed leeks, onions, and 
mushrooms on top. (A squirt of orange juice in the 
leeks is really good.) Or serve it with string beans 
sautéed with red pepper flakes and white rice, with a 
splash of soy sauce drizzled on top.
• Salmon contains a protein,  albumin, that generates 
a white congealed mess on the outside of the flesh, 
as shown on the bottom piece in the photo. This is 
the same protein that leaches out of hamburgers and 
other meats, typically forming slightly gray “blobs” 
on the surface. You can avoid this by brining the fish 
in a 10% salt solution (by weight) for 20 minutes, 
which will set the proteins. The top piece in the photo was brined; you 
can see the difference. If you brine the fish, skip adding salt to it when 
cooking.
Salmon contains a protein, 
albumin, that is expressed out 
of the flesh and leads to an 
unsightly, curdlike layer forming 
on the surface of the fish when 
it’s poached, as shown in the 
bottom piece in this photo.
104–122°F / 40–50°C: Fish and Meat Proteins Start to Denature 169Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna
Pan searing is one of those truly simple cooking methods that produces 
a fantastic flavor and also happens to take care of bacterial surface 
contamination, which we’ll talk about in the next section.
The key to getting a rich brown crust is to use either a stainless steel or cast 
iron pan, both of which have a higher thermal mass than other types of pans 
(see page 45 for how quickly different metals transfer heat). I recommend 
using cast iron for this recipe, as there’s no worry about it warping at high 
temperatures. When you drop the tuna onto the pan, the outside will sear 
and cook quickly while leaving most of the center raw.
You’ll need 3–4 ounces (85–110 grams) of tuna  per person. Slice the 
tuna into roughly equal-sized portions, since you’ll be cooking them 
one or two at a time.
On a flat plate, measure out 1 tablespoon (6g) cumin seed  and ½ 
teaspoon (2g) sea salt  (preferably a flaky sea salt) per piece of tuna . 
On a second plate, pour a few tablespoons (~30 mL) of a high-heat-
stable oil , such as refined canola, sunflower, or safflower oil.
Place a cast iron pan on a burner set as hot as possible. Wait for the pan 
to heat up thoroughly, until it just begins to smoke.
For each serving of tuna, dredge all sides in the cumin/salt mix, and 
then briefly dip all sides in the oil to give the fish a thin coating.
Sear all sides of the fish. Flip to a new side once the current facedown 
side’s cumin seeds begin to brown and toast, about 30 seconds per side.
Slice the tuna into 1/3" / 1 cm pieces and serve it as part of a salad 
(place the fish on top of salad greens) or main dish (try serving with 
rice, risotto, or Japanese udon noodles).
Notes
• This tuna is great for Nicoise salad. Add green beans, hard-cooked 
eggs, small potatoes, tomatoes, and olives on a bed of lettuce like 
Bibb or butterhead lettuce, dress it with a light vinaigrette, and enjoy.
• Keep in mind that the temperature of the pan will fall once you drop the 
tuna in it, so don’t use a piece of fish too large for your pan. If you’re unsure, cook the fish in batches.
• Use coarse sea salt, not rock (kosher) salt or the table salt you’d find in a salt shaker. The coarse sea 
salt has a large, flaky grain that won’t fully dissolve on the fish and then gives a nice flavor as it 
dissolves on your tongue.
Coat all sides of the tuna in cumin 
seeds and salt by pressing the tuna 
down onto a plate that has the spice 
mixture evenly spread out on it.
Make sure the pan is really 
hot. Some smoke coming off 
the fish as it sears is okay!
Pan-seared tuna will have 
a very steep “gradient of 
doneness”—a thin, well-done 
outside and a large raw center.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 170140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone
The danger zone rule: don’t keep food between 40°F / 4°C and 140°F / 60°C for 
more than 2 hours.
While fans of music from the 1980s might want to take the “Highway to the Danger Zone, ” 
when it comes to food, I’d suggest taking the highway in the other direction. The modern 
food supply is more interconnected and interdependent than ever before. As I write this, 
I’m eating my morning bowl of cereal, yogurt, bananas, and almonds. The muesli cereal is 
from Switzerland, the yogurt local to New England, the bananas from Costa Rica, and the 
almonds from California. The only direction from which food hasn’t come 3,000 miles is 
north, and that’s because not much grows at the North Pole!
While it’s a privilege to have year-round access to fresh produce and international 
ingredients, there is a downside: the number of people who can be affected by any given 
mistake has also increased. A contaminated batch of water sprayed onto a field of spinach 
can sicken hundreds of consumers across many state and international lines before the 
source of the contamination is identified.
Food safety, while not a sexy topic, is an important one, and there are some interesting 
aspects of biology involved. (Did you know some parasites can survive even in liquid 
nitrogen?!) Unlike in the rest of this chapter—heck, the rest of this book—I’m going to take 
a brief digression away from fun “how cooking works” ideas and look at “how to not kill 
yourself” for the next dozen or so pages. I’ll try to keep it entertaining.
The main culprits for unsafe food are bacteria and parasites combined with poor handling. 
Other aspects, like  viruses, mold, and contaminants, are also of concern, but these are much 
easier to manage. You can transmit viruses by not washing your hands or by cooking while 
you’re sick, both of which are easy to mitigate (wash your hands; don’t cook for others 
when you’re ill). If you see mold growing on something, throw it out (see page 434 for an 
interview on mold). The idea that mold can only be present an inch away from where you 
see it is wrong. Finally, contaminants and toxins are primarily issues for producers of foods, 
so as a consumer you’re mostly off the hook for those. (If you grow your own veggies, test 
your soil for contaminants.)
Back to the world of bacteria and parasites. Most critters guilty of causing foodborne 
illnesses reproduce at temperatures above 40°F / 4°C, with some species active all the way 
up to 131°F / 55°C. Throw in a margin of safety of a few degrees, and you’ll see why the 
“danger zone” mentioned at the start of this section is defined as being between 40°F / 4°C 
and 140°F / 60°C. In the fridge, bacteria and parasites remain viable but generally won’t 
reproduce (there are exceptions), and above 140°F / 60°C they eventually die. Somewhere 
in between the two temperatures, though, is party central for bad bugs.140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 171As you’d imagine, the time range given in the danger zone rule is a vast simplification of 
what’s really going on in the microbiological world. The rule limits the time window to two 
hours by assuming the worst-case scenario: food held longer than that can cause illness if 
contaminated with one of the more aggressive bad bugs, Bacillus cereus . (Who said 
scientists don’t have a sense of humor? Try saying B. cereus  out loud.) 
The temperature ranges are also grossly simplified. Organisms reproduce at different rates 
at different temperatures. Salmonella , for example, is happiest breeding at around 100°F 
/ 37.8°C. (No wonder we have such issues if we get sick with it!) It doesn’t go from zero 
reproduction at 40°F / 4°C to full-on 
party mode at 41°F / 5°C; it’s a gradual 
ramp-up to that ideal breeding 
temperature. The danger zone and 
cooking temperature guidelines are 
simplifications, and by understanding 
the bigger picture you can cook 
better-tasting and safer food.
To understand the simplifications of the time and temperature ranges, we need to talk 
about chance. Contracting a foodborne illness is a game of probabilities. For Listeria 
monocytogenes , the bacteria that causes listeriosis and is potentially present in raw milk, 
you’d need to swallow somewhere around a thousand of them. While that may sound like a 
lot, it’s not: a single sip of contaminated milk can make you sick. A single bacterium of E. coli  
isn’t likely to cause a problem (not that I want to volunteer!), but given 10 to 100 of them, 
the odds are grim. Cooking a hamburger to medium-rare reduces their count, assuming 
the bacteria are present, but doesn’t guarantee their elimination. What risks you should 
accept—do you really  want that hamburger medium-rare?—requires knowing what the 
consequences are and the probabilities involved. 
For most of us, the consequence of contracting most foodborne illnesses is gastrointestinal 
distress —diarrhea, vomiting, muscle spasms, and the like. However, for those who are 
in an at-risk group —anyone for whom having a foodborne illness can lead to further 
complications—such illnesses can be fatal. If you are cooking for someone who is elderly, 
extremely young, pregnant, or immunocompromised, be vigilant with food safety issues 
and skip dishes that have higher risks (including, alas, the medium-rare hamburger).
The odds of getting sick from food are about one in six in any given year, and about a 
quarter of a percent of those cases will require hospitalization, according to the United 
States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). How we get sick from food is 
complicated. Let’s look at Salmonella  specifically, keeping in mind that the concepts apply 
to other pathogens as well, just with different specifics. TemperatureRate of
Multiplication
32ºF
0ºC
40ºF
4.5ºC
140ºF
60ºC
Multiplication rates of foodborne illness–related bacteria follow a curve with an ideal 
breeding range in the middle, nothing at all like what the danger zone rule implies.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 172Salmonella  is surprisingly prevalent, infecting tens of million of people worldwide each 
year. Salmonella  reproduces in the temperature range of 44–118°F / 7–48°C and survives at 
an even wider range. When cooked to 160°F / 71°C, it dies instantly; that is, its thermal death 
time —how long it takes a bacteria to die at a given temperature—is zero.
The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) publishes cooking temperature 
guidelines for consumers. For chicken, which is commonly tainted with E. coli  and 
Salmonella , the USDA guidelines say to cook it to 165°F / 74°C. It’s a guideline based on 
simplicity, not on cooking deliciously tasty chicken. Then there’s the US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA), which writes the actual food laws. The FDA Food Code requires 
commercial vendors to cook chicken to only 155°F / 68°C (section 3-401.11, for the curious).
Why the difference in temperatures? In part, it’s down to the craziness that is the US’s food 
regulatory system and differences between organizations. (Seriously, who can keep track of 
when the USDA or FDA or CDC or NSA is supposed to be involved?) Consumer guidelines 
assume some amount of error, so err on the high side; commercial outfits are accountable to 
legal standards and assumed to have better measuring techniques and equipment.
Then there’s the issue of hold times —how long a food needs to remain at temperature. The 
FDA requirement is based on a thermal death time of 15 seconds at 155°F / 68°C, meaning 
cooked chicken has to hit that temperature and then stay there for 15 seconds.
The rate-of-reaction discussion at the beginning of this chapter is true for bacteria and 
parasites too. Extending hold times increases how many of the pathogens will be killed. 
There’s another group (and another acronym), the USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection 
Service (FSIS), that publishes charts of hold times based on exactly this. Chicken breast 
cooked to 145°F / 63°C has much better texture—it’s cooked yet not dry—but requires a 
hold time of 8.4 minutes, something that the consumer guidelines rightly assume home 
cooks can’t safely do. (Although with sous vide cooking, it’s possible—see page 320.) But 
at 150°F / 66°C, the hold time is only 2.7 minutes—something 
that with some care you can do. Don’t tell anyone, but that’s 
how I cook my chicken. I give myself a 5°F / 3°C error, shooting 
for 155°F / 68°C and holding it there for 3 minutes. ( Shh! )
Following hold times involves more than reaching a 
temperature (though I’d rather eat from places cooking based 
on simplified guidelines than none at all). The specific hold 
times depend not only on the organism at hand, but also the 
food being cooked. For chicken, with its lower fat content and 
smoother surface, 8.4 minutes at 145°F / 63°C is long enough 
to pasteurize Salmonella . But when you’re making beef jerky, Time (in minutes)
Internal Temperature130ºF
54.4ºC020406080
140ºF
60ºC150ºF
65.5ºC160ºF
71ºC
136°F/57.8°C for 81.4 minutes
140°F/60°C for 35 minutes
Hold time in minutes for cooking chicken, per USDA FSIS 
guidelines (assuming chicken with a 12% level of fat).140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 173Salmonella  can survive at 145°F / 63°C for 10 hours, presumably due to the evaporative 
cooling of the water from the beef as it dries out and the tiny crevices in the surface that 
remain cooler.
If hold times seem confusing—they were to me at first—think of them like time spent in a 
sauna. You can survive, even enjoy, dry heat for a while, but if you’re exposed to it for too 
long, you’ll eventually die. Jump into the sauna wrapped in a cold towel and with an iced 
drink, and you’ll last longer. The same is true for pathogens: given a long enough exposure, 
they will eventually die, but not instantly , so cooking at temperatures below the simplified 
guidelines requires looking up exactly what you’re cooking to correctly pasteurize it.
Pasteurization , by the way, is merely a reduction of the typical pathogens to a safe level. 
Don’t confuse this with sterilization , which would entirely eliminate pathogens. Obviously, 
if there are zero Salmonella  bacteria present after cooking, the food won’t spontaneously 
become infected unless recontaminated. With pasteurization, the levels of pathogens 
are dropped but not necessarily to zero, so given time at reproductive temperatures they 
could creep back up to dangerous levels. Sterilized foods—canned tuna fish, irradiated 
milk—have none of the pathogens present and when properly sealed can be kept at room 
temperature indefinitely.
Hold times for pasteurization depend on how quickly a pathogen dies at a particular 
temperature and how many of them need to be killed, based on the difference between 
worst possible and acceptable contamination levels. Scientists use the term log10 reductions  
to talk about pasteurization, where one log10 reduction cuts the pathogen count by a factor 
of 10. For Salmonella , guidelines specify a 7 log10 reduction, meaning only 1 in 10 million 
bacteria should be able to survive. 
If we can cook food to reduce the number of pathogens, why not just recook foods that are 
accidentally left out where the pathogens may have reproduced again? Sometimes it’s not 
the bacteria themselves that are the issue, but the toxins they produce. While appropriate 
cooking might safely reduce the bacterial count, the toxins themselves, such as those 
produced by B. cereus , can be heat-stable and remain in cooked foods.
We’ll take a look at the specific times and temperatures you should follow in the next 
section. For additional information on pathogens in food, check out the FDA’s Bad Bug Book ; 
see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/badbugbook/  for a current link.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 174Steak Tartare with Poached Egg
To some, the idea of steak tartare is a delicacy; 
to others, it’s nauseating. Food preferences aside, 
carpaccio —thinly sliced raw meat—and tartare —
minced raw meat—are surprisingly delicious and 
interesting from a science perspective. They’re based 
on mechanical tenderization by slicing through 
muscle tissues, and they’re a good example of 
managing food safety.
My technique here, a hot water dip treatment, 
removes more than 99% of any potentially present 
surface bacteria. As the old food science adage 
goes: there’s no such thing as safe food, just safer 
food. When dipped in 183°F / 83.5°C water, E. coli  
is reduced by 99.4% (a 2.23 log reduction) after 
10 seconds and 99.9% (a 2.98 log reduction) at 20 
seconds—pretty good, but not 100%. If you wouldn’t 
eat the poached egg—which could have Salmonella , 
at least in the United States—then you shouldn’t eat 
the steak tartare. If you’re game, give this a try; you 
might be surprised how good it is!
For each appetizer portion, you’ll need ¼ pound 
(~100g) beef tenderloin (fillet), top sirloin, 
or other lean “whole-muscle” cut . For 4 people, 
snag a single 1 pound (~450g) piece. Do not get 
ground meat.  Make sure that the cut of meat is not 
mechanically tenderized (“pinned,” “jaccarded,” 
etc.); ask your butcher. I’m lucky that mine dry-
ages meats for two weeks and does the butchering 
in the front part of the store, so I know what I’m 
buying.
Set the meat in a large pot and fill it with enough 
water to cover the meat. Remove the meat and 
heat the water to approximately 183°F / 83.5°C. 
Dunk the meat for 10–20 seconds, then remove it 
and blot it with a paper towel. The meat should be 
grey. (Fun fact: the color will partly revert over 
time.)Store the meat in the freezer on a plate for 30 
minutes, giving it time to firm up so that it’s 
easier to slice.
After the meat has firmed up in the freezer—don’t 
actually freeze it!—use a sharp, sharp knife to 
cut it into brunoise  cuts—small cubes, about 1/8" / 
0.3 cm. Start by cutting the meat into thin slices, 
then cut the slices into strips, and finally cut 
the strips into cubes, pressing down to pinch-cut 
them if a drag-cut doesn’t work. Transfer the meat 
to a bowl and liberally season it with good sea 
salt and pepper . 
Tartare fans have strong opinions about how to 
prepare it and what should accompany it. If you’d 
like a starting suggestion, mix in a small amount 
of lemon juice , mustard , and olive oil  to taste.
Steak tartare is almost always served with a raw 
egg yolk on top; I like to do it with a poached 
egg. The yolk is still runny, but it’s a more 
accessible presentation to people who dislike the 
idea of raw egg yolk. Place an individual portion 
of the tartare onto a plate, shaping it into a round 
patty. Top it with a poached egg  (see page 193) 
and serve it with good potato chips .
140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 175Why Doesn’t Food in the Pantry Go Bad?
Pathogens need more than the right temperature 
in order to multiply. Many foods are shelf-
stable because they’re low in available moisture 
(crackers, dry goods like beans and grains, 
oils, even jams and jellies), but there are other 
variables that matter too. Here’s a list of the six 
factors that all need to be in the right ranges for 
microbial growth, memorable by its acronym, FAT 
TOM. If any one of these is out of bounds, the food 
won’t support microbial growth.
F = Food
Bacteria need proteins and carbohydrates to 
multiply. No food, no multiplication. They 
may still be present, though! Bottled water, 
for example, has no organic matter in it to 
support growth.
A = Acidity
Bacteria  can only survive in certain pH 
ranges. Too acidic or basic, and the proteins 
in the bacteria denature. Pickled items are 
shelf-stable because they’re too acidic. For 
homemade jams, it’s hard to know if the 
acidity is low enough unless you exactly 
follow a verified recipe.
T = Temperature
Too cold, and bacteria effectively sleep. Too 
hot, and they die. Most parasites, on the 
other hand, are killed with proper freezing—
for seafood, –4°F / –20°C for 7 days—and like 
bacteria, die when too hot.
T = Time
Bacteria have to have enough time to multiply 
to a sufficient quantity to overwhelm our 
bodies. For pantry foods, temperature and 
time aren’t limiting factors.O = Oxygen
Microorganisms will reproduce only if 
sufficient oxygen is present, or, for anaerobic 
bacteria (e.g., Clostridium botulinum ), if no 
oxygen is present. Keep in mind that vacuum-
packed bags are not necessarily devoid of 
oxygen. Foods stored in oils are completely 
devoid of oxygen, though, so if you make 
infused oils or non-acidic dressings using 
garlic, herbs, or chilies, store them in the 
fridge and use them within four days.
M = Moisture
Bacteria need water to reproduce. Food 
scientists use a scale called water activity , 
which is a measure of the freely available 
water in a material (from 0 to 1). Bacteria 
need a water activity value of 0.85 or greater 
to multiply.
Fun fact:  Botox is made from a toxin produced 
by C. botulinum , and that toxin is the most acutely 
toxic substance known. A dose as small as ~250 
nanograms—1/120,000 the weight of a grain of 
rice—will do you in.
Caliciviruses —a family of viruses, norovirus 
being the best known—are prolific; these are 
typically spread by a sick individual preparing 
food for others. If you’ve spent a night “praying 
to the porcelain god”—diarrhea, vomiting, chills, 
headache—there’s a 50% chance you can blame 
norovirus for the experience. If you have those 
symptoms, don’t cook for others!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 176Scallop Ceviche
This scallop ceviche is a simple dish to prepare and 
refreshing on a warm summer day. It’s also a good 
example of how acids—in this case, the lime and 
lemon juices—are used to make foods safe to eat.
In a bowl, mix:
 ½ cup (120 mL) lime juice
 ¼ cup (60 mL) lemon juice
 1 small (70g) red onion, sliced as thinly as 
possible
 2 tablespoons (20g or 1 bulb) shallot, thinly 
sliced
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil
 1 tablespoon (15 mL) ketchup
 1 clove (7g) garlic, chopped or run through a 
garlic press
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) balsamic vinegar
Add and toss to coat:
 1 pound (450g) bay scallops, rinsed and 
patted dry
Store the mixture in the fridge, toss it again after 
2 hours, and store it overnight to allow sufficient 
time for the acid to penetrate the scallops. Add 
salt and pepper  to taste.
How effective is lime juice at getting rid of bacteria?
For the types of bacteria that might be present in seafood, it’s very effective. To quote from the 
literature: “In the face of an epidemic of cholera, consumption of ceviche prepared with lime juice 
would be one of the safest ways to avoid infection with [Vibrio] cholerae .” (L. Mata, M. Vives, and G. 
Vicente (1994), “Extinction of Vibrio cholerae  in acidic substrata: contaminated fish marinated with 
lime juice (ceviche),” Revista de Biología Tropical  42(3): 472–485.)
Notes
• Try slicing one of the scallops in half after 2 
hours. You should see a white outer ring and a 
translucent center. The outer ring is the portion 
that has had time to react with the citric acid, 
changing color as the proteins denature (just 
as they would with heat applied). Likewise, 
after marinating for a day or two, a sliced 
scallop should show a cross-section that’s 
entirely white.
• Keep in mind that the pH of the marinade is 
important! At least 15% of the dish should be 
lime or lemon juice, assuming the remaining 
ingredients are not extremely basic. Lime juice 
is more acidic than lemon juice (pH of 2.0–2.35 
versus 2.0–2.6).
• Try adding minor 
quantities of herbs 
like oregano to the 
marinade or adding 
cherry tomatoes 
and cilantro to the 
final dish (after 
marinating).
140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 177Cooking with Acids 
Heat isn’t the only thing that denatures proteins and kills pathogens. A protein 
keeps its native shape because of the balance of forces pushing and pulling on the 
molecular structure. Adding an acid or base knocks these forces out of balance. 
The ions from an acid or base push on a protein’s structure, changing the electrical 
charges and thus causing the protein to change its shape. For dishes like ceviche —
citrus-marinated seafood—the acid from the lime or lemon juice causes a change 
on the molecular level akin to cooking with heat. This change doesn’t happen only 
on the surface; given sufficient time, acidic and basic solutions will fully penetrate 
a food.
Ceviche is a classic example of using acids to kill pathogens. V. cholerae —a common 
seafood-borne pathogen—rapidly dies in environments with a pH level below 4.5, 
even at room temperature. Another example is cooked rice for sushi, where rice 
vinegar is added. Without the rice vinegar, cooked rice left sitting out at room 
temperature becomes a perfect breeding ground for B. cereus : it’s moist, at an ideal 
temperature, and has plenty of nutrients for bacteria to munch away on. But drop 
the pH level of the environment down to about 4.0, and the rice falls well outside 
a hospitable range for bacteria to grow. This is why proper preparation of sushi rice 
is so critical in restaurants: failure to correctly adjust the pH level can result in 
sickening diners.
Why doesn’t boiling rice get rid of bacteria?
It does get rid of bacteria, but only temporarily. 
Some bacteria, like B. cereus , reproduce with spores 
that are heat-stable and survive boiling. Because 
the spores are highly prevalent in soil and water, 
they’re nearly impossible to get rid of. Also, unless 
you’re using a technique like canning, pathogens 
can be re-introduced into the food from cross-
contamination after they cool down.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 178
Doug Powell on Food Safety
Doug Powell is an associate professor at 
Kansas State University’s Department of 
Diagnostic Medicine and Pathobiology. 
His blog, “barfblog: musings about food 
safety and things that make you barf, ” is 
at http://www.barfblog.com .
Is there a tension between safety 
and quality in cooking, and if so, 
are there methods to achieve both?
Safety and quality are two very different 
things. Quality is something that 
people love talking about, whether it’s 
wine, or organic food, or how it was grown, and people can talk themselves 
to death about all that. My job is to 
make sure they don’t barf.
For somebody cooking at home, it’s 
easy for them to see a difference in 
quality. It’s very hard for them to 
see a difference in safety until they 
get sick, I imagine?
There are tremendous nutritional 
benefits to having a year-round supply 
of fresh fruits and vegetables. At the 
same time, the diet rich in fruits and 
vegetables is the leading cause of 
foodborne illness in North America 
because they’re fresh, and anything 
that touches them has the potential 
to contaminate. So how do you 
balance the potential for risk against 
the potential benefits? Be aware of the 
risks and put in place safety programs, 
beginning on the farm.
If you look at cancer trends in the 
1920s, the most predominant cancers 
were stomach cancers. All everyone 
ate during the winter were pickles and 
vinegar and salt. Now that’s almost 
completely eradicated because of fresh 
food. But now you have to prevent 
contamination from the farm to the 
kitchen, because more food is eaten 
fresh. There are trade-offs in all of these 
things. In preparing hamburger and 
chicken, there is an issue with cooking 
it thoroughly and validating that 
with a thermometer, but most of the 
risk is actually associated with cross-
contamination. Potatoes are grown in 
dirt, and birds crap all over them, and 
bird crap is loaded with Salmonella  
and Campylobacter . When you bring a 
potato into a kitchen or a food service operation, it’s just loaded with bacteria 
that get all over the place.
What’s the normal time between 
ingestion and symptoms?
It’s around one to two days for 
Salmonella  and E. coli . For things like 
Listeria , it can be up to two months. 
Hepatitis A  is a month. You probably 
can’t remember what you had 
yesterday or the day before, so how can 
you remember what you ate a month 
ago? The fact that any outbreak actually 
gets tracked to the source, I find 
miraculous. In the past, if a hundred 
people went to a wedding or a funeral, 
they all had the same meal. They all 
showed up at emergency two days 
later, and they would have a common 
menu that investigators would look 
at to piece it together. Nowadays, 
through DNA fingerprinting, it’s easier. 
If a person in Tennessee and a person 
in Michigan and a person in New York 
have gotten sick from something, 
they take samples and check against 
DNA fingerprints. There are computers 
working 24 / 7 along with humans 
looking to make these matches. And 
they can say these people from all 
across the country, they actually have 
the same bug, so they ate the same 
food.
Think of spinach contamination in 2006. 
There were 200 people sick, but it was 
all across the country. How did they put 
those together? Because they had the 
same DNA fingerprint and they were 
able to find the same DNA fingerprint 
in E. coli  in a bag of spinach from 
someone’s kitchen. Then they were able 
to find the same DNA fingerprint from 
a cow next to the spinach farm. It was PHOTOS USED BY PERMISSION OF DOUG POWELL
140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 179
one of the best cases with the most 
conclusive evidence. Normally, you 
don’t have that much evidence.
What to do about it isn’t very clear-cut, 
but when you look at most outbreaks, 
they’re usually not acts of God. They’re 
usually such gross violations of 
sanitation that you wonder why people 
didn’t get sicker earlier. With a lot of 
fresh produce outbreaks, the irrigation 
water has either human or animal 
waste in it, and they’re using that 
water to grow crops. These bugs exist 
naturally. We can take some regulatory 
precautions, but what are we going 
to do, kill all the birds? But we can 
minimize the impact.
When farmers harvest crops, they can 
wash them in a chlorinated water 
system that will reduce the bacterial 
loads. We know that cows and pigs 
and other animals carry these bacteria 
and they’re going to get contaminated 
during slaughter. So we take other steps 
to reduce the risk as much as possible, 
because by the time you get it home 
and go to make those hamburgers, we 
know you’re going to make mistakes. 
I’ve got a PhD, and I’m going to make 
mistakes. I want the number of bacteria 
as low as possible so that I don’t make 
my one-year-old sick.
Is there a particular count of 
bacteria that is required to 
overwhelm the system?
It depends on the microorganism. 
With something like Salmonella  or 
Campylobacter , we don’t know the 
proper dose response curves. We work 
backward when there is an outbreak. 
If it’s something like a frozen food, 
where they might have a good sample 
because it’s in someone’s freezer, we 
can find out more. With something like Salmonella  or Campylobacter , it looks 
like you need a million cells to trigger 
an infection. With something like E. coli  
O157, you need about five.
You have to take into account the 
lethality of the bug. For 10% of the 
victims, E. coli  O157 is going to blow 
out their kidneys and some are going 
to die. With Listeria , 30% are going to 
die. Salmonella  and Campylobacter  
tend not to kill, but it’s not fun. So all of 
these things factor into it. A pregnant 
woman is 20 times more susceptible to 
Listeria . That’s why they are warned to 
not eat deli meat, smoked salmon, and 
refrigerated, ready-to-eat foods. Listeria  
grows in the refrigerator and they’re 20 
times more susceptible and it can kill 
their babies. Most people don’t know 
that either.
Are there any particular major 
messages that you would want 
to get to consumers about food 
safety?
It’s no different than anything else, 
like drunk driving or whatever 
other campaign: be careful. The 
main message about food in our 
culture today is dominated by food 
pornography. Turn on the TV and there 
are endless cooking shows, and all 
these people going on about all these 
foods. None of that has anything to do 
with safety. You go to the supermarket 
today, you can buy 40 different kinds 
of milk and 100 different kinds of 
vegetables grown in different ways, 
but none of it says it’s E. coli –free. 
Retailers are very reluctant to market 
on food safety, because then people 
will think, “Oh my god, all food is 
dangerous!” All they have to do is read a 
newspaper, and they’ll know that food 
is dangerous.A lot of the guidelines I see talk 
about the danger zone of 40 –140°F 
/ 4–60°C.
A lot of those guidelines are just 
complete nonsense. The danger zone 
is nice and it’s important not to leave 
food in the danger zone, but at the 
same time it doesn’t really get into any 
details. People learn by telling stories. 
Just telling people “Don’t do this with 
your food” doesn’t work; they say, “Yeah, 
okay, why?” I can tell you lots of stories 
of why or why not. The guidelines 
aren’t changing what people do and 
that’s why we do research on human 
behavior, how to actually get people to 
do what they’re supposed to do. As Jon 
Stewart said in 2002, if you think those 
signs in the bathrooms (“Employees 
must wash hands”) are keeping the piss 
out of your food, you’re wrong! What 
we want to do is come up with signs 
that work.
I’m wondering what your signs look 
like?
We have some good ones! Our favorite 
picture is the  skull in the bed of lettuce. 
The dead person from carrot juice is 
pretty good, too.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 180How to Reduce the Chances of Foodborne Illness
Not long ago, I overheard the fishmonger at my local grocery store tell a customer that it 
was okay to use the wild salmon he was selling for making sushi. However, given that the 
fish wasn’t labeled as “previously frozen” and that it was in direct contact with other fish in 
the case, there was no guarantee that it was safe from harmful parasites or bacteria. What’s 
a shopper to do in the absence of a true fishmonger?
For starters, pay attention and understand where the risks are. Not all produce shares the 
same types of risk. Salmonella , for example, tends to show up in land animals and improperly 
handled produce—you’re actually more likely to get it from not washing your vegetables at 
this point! Other bacteria, such  as Vibrio vulnificus , show up in fish that are exposed to the 
brackish waters of tidal estuaries, like wild salmon. Deep-water fish, such as some species of 
tuna, and some aquacultured fish like salmon, are of less concern. Few of us will remember 
such specifics—I know that I don’t have a good enough memory for such details about 
salmon—but there are broad rules that cover cooking most foods, sushi-making ones aside.
The safest way of preventing foodborne illness—well, other than living in a plastic bubble 
on a diet of irradiated gruel—is avoiding  cross-contamination by cooking properly. Oh, 
cross-contamination, what a pain you are. Cross-contamination is more of a problem than 
undercooked meats! Wash your hands, wash your hands, wash your hands, and don’t dry 
those just-washed hands on a dirty towel.
As for cooking temperatures, the USDA recommends 
cooking foods based on temperatures needed to 
instantly kill pathogens that may be present. The 
USDA recommendations trade off deliciousness 
for safety, and when I’m retired and eating on a 
cruise ship or recovering in the hospital, that’s what 
I’d want. But the rest of the time? Using the given 
temperatures result in overcooked foods.
Assuming you have a good digital probe thermometer, 
following hold time guidelines will properly pasteurize 
foods and at the same time avoid overcooking 
them. As I’ve mentioned, the US FSIS publishes hold time tables; search online for FSIS time-
temperature guidelines .
What if you’re willing to “consume raw or undercooked meats, ” as the common menu 
warning goes? Depending upon the ingredients, you should still handle them wisely—
avoid cross-contamination, keep foods cold—and then understand where the risks are in 
produce, meats, and seafood. Here’s a quick summary for each of those topics. USDA consumer guidelines:
145°F / 63°C: Fish and shellfish
145°F / 63°C: “Whole-muscle” beef and similar meats
160°F / 71°C: Ground meats
160°F / 71°C: Eggs
165°F / 74°C: Poultry and leftovers
140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 181Safe cooking temperatures depend on which pathogens might 
be present and their survival temperature zones. Very few 
bacteria that cause foodborne illness are psychrotrophic—
cold growers—which is why refrigeration staves them off. 
(Listeria is the exception.) Most bad bugs are mesophilic—
most active near body temperature—and luckily only a 
few are heat-loving thermophiles (e.g., campylobacter). 
GRAPH BASED ON E. ANDERSEN, M. JUL, AND H. RIEMANN (1965), “INDUSTRIEL 
LEVNEDSMIDDEL-KONSERVERING, ”  COL. 2, KULDEKONSERVERING, COPENHAGEN: 
TEKNISK FORLAG)
TemperatureLog Activity
104ºF
40ºC140ºF
60ºC-4ºF
-20ºC68ºF
20ºC32ºF
0ºCPsychrotrophic bacteriaMesophilic bacteriaThermophilic bacteria
Avoid cross-contamination
Sponges and towels are notorious—ridiculously, absolutely notorious—for cross-
contamination. You wipe down a dirty countertop, rinse the sponge or towel under hot soapy 
water, then wring it out. An hour later, you pick it up, wipe down another countertop, and bam! 
You’ve just spread a beautiful thin coat of bad bugs all over the place: your tap water isn’t hot 
enough to kill pathogens. Or you’ve washed your hands with hot water and soap after handling 
raw items—but then you dry your hands on a towel you touched while dirty, and boom!
Use paper towels for drying hands and wiping down spills, and keep a stack of clean 
dish towels so you can toss the current one in the wash after each meal. Microwave dish 
sponges (rinse them and give them 2 minutes on high), boil them for 5 minutes, or run 
them through the dishwasher on a weekly basis.
It should go without saying: keep separate cutting boards or plates for raw and cooked 
foods. You can use plastic wrap over a cutting board for a quick, disposable surface—or 
even use the wrapper the meats came in, if you’re careful not to cut through the paper.
Keep food cold
Have you checked what temperature your fridge is running at? It should be below 40°F 
/ 4°C, and ideally on the chilly side (34–36°F / 1–2°C) so that foods will cool down more 
quickly and spoil more slowly.
While cooking food kills off most of the bacteria, there’s a chance a few will survive or make 
it back in via cross-contamination. There’s also the likely possibility of heat-resistant spores 
still kicking around. Given the right temperature range and time, they can reproduce to 
unsafe quantities. Stick leftovers in the fridge right away, as opposed to letting them sit 
around until post-meal cleanup. The exception to this is if you have a large quantity of hot 
food, in which case let it cool to 140°F / 60°C and then place it in an ice bath to quickly chill 
it even further before storing it in the fridge.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 182If you’re going to have foods out for a while—milk on the table for a leisurely long brunch, 
potato salad for a picnic in the park—keep them cold. Stash containers of liquids like milk in 
a bowl with crushed ice and use ice packs to keep containers of foods like potato salad cold. 
If you know your food has been properly cooked and chilled, you can use the danger zone 
rule as a guideline—2 to 4 hours is an okay exposure time, but beyond that, there are risks.
Wash produce
When’s the last time you cleaned the veggie drawer in your fridge? I thought so. (I’m guilty 
too!) Store veggies and lettuces in plastic bags, and rinse them before eating them. You can 
also steam vegetables to quickly kill any pathogens. Use a container with the lid mostly 
closed and a small amount of water inside; the lid will keep the steam in contact with the 
vegetables.
Contamination of fruits and vegetables can happen before you buy them, either from 
contaminated water used during farming or from other sources (birds poop when flying 
over growing fields!). Root vegetables—carrots, potatoes, beets— and anything that 
harbors soil should be thoroughly washed. Wash everything thoroughly; who knows if 
someone sneezed on it at the store. (I know, gross, but after reading the Reddit thread on 
what buffet restaurant workers will never eat...well, you may not want to know.)
Use “whole-muscle, intact” cuts of meats
The industry lingo “whole-muscle, intact” describes pieces of meat whose interior is 
untouched, meaning they’re not ground and not mechanically tenderized —stabbed with 
a whole bunch of tiny blades to microscopically cut them up. Whole-muscle intact cuts of 
beef, pork, veal, and lamb are great for delicious cooking: contamination is limited to the 
surface, so a quick sear or dunk in boiling water and you’re safe to eat the inside totally raw. 
Steak tartare? Perfectly fine with whole-muscle intact cuts.
But these two little words (okay, long words) “mechanically tenderized” should give you 
pause. About one in four retail steaks and roasts are mechanically tenderized, which does 
make them less tough but also shoves any surface contamination deep into the meat. 
Unfortunately, you can’t see the microcuts, and frustratingly, food labeling laws don’t 
require processors to label meats as mechanically tenderized. Advocacy groups have been 
trying for 20 years; so far, only Canada requires labeling. Short of knowing your butcher, you 
have no way of determining if that slab of beef is whole-muscle intact or not. Buyer beware!
Cook ground meats to well done
Ground meats like hamburger are all outside, in the sense that surface contamination will 
have been ground throughout the meat. The USDA says to cook ground meats to 160°F / 
71°C. Alas, this temperature is also high enough that the majority of the proteins denature 140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 183and give a tough texture. Since fats help mask dryness in meat, using ground beef that has 
more fat in it will lead to a juicier burger. Look for “85/15” beef—85% lean meat, 15% fat; 
using leaner ground beef will lead to dry burgers. 
Note that change in color is not an accurate indicator of doneness. Myoglobin, 
oxymyoglobin, and metmyoglobin can begin to turn grey starting at 140°F / 60°C or remain 
pink at 160°F / 71°C when the pH is around 6.0. Use a digital probe thermometer when 
cooking ground meats!
It is possible to cook safe medium-rare hamburgers. If you’re up for grinding your own 
meat, buy whole-muscle intact and process it with the same directions given in the steak 
tartare recipe (see page 174). Otherwise, look for cold-pasteurized meat (a.k.a. irradiated) or 
cook it sous vide (see page 320) to pasteurize it yourself (roughly 30 minutes for a 1/2" inch 
/ 15 cm–thick burger at 141°F / 61°C). If you have the equipment, the best burger I ever had 
was sous vide cooked, briefly fried, and liberally sprinkled with salt.
Select fish and seafood based on how you’re going to cook it
Most parasites in seafood don’t infect humans, and cooking the seafood also cooks the 
worms. However, Anisakis simplex  and tapeworms (cestodes ) are two parasites of general 
concern. For cooked seafood dishes—internal temperature of 145°F / 63°C—any parasite 
will be dead, and while the thought of eating a worm might be unappetizing, if it’s dead 
there’s little to worry about other than the mental factor. Just think of it as extra protein.
Raw and undercooked seafood is another matter entirely. Cod, halibut, or salmon cooked 
rare? Sashimi or cold-smoked fish? All potential hosts for roundworm, tapeworms, and 
flukes. Fortunately, like most animals, few parasites can survive freezing. (There are 
exceptions: trichomoniasis  can survive being frozen in liquid nitrogen; thankfully it’s not 
found in food.) Select previously frozen fish when cooking it to only low temperatures.
If you want to  freeze-pasteurize fish yourself, here is the guideline—if you happen to have 
access to dry ice or liquid nitrogen, quick-freeze the fish first for better texture:
US FDA 2005 Food Code, Section 3-402.11: “raw, raw-marinated, partially cooked, or 
marinated-partially cooked fish shall be: (1) Frozen and stored at a temperature of -20°C 
(-4°F) or below for a minimum of 168 hours (7 days) in a freezer; [or] (2) Frozen at -35°C 
(-31°F) or below until solid and stored at -35°C (-31°F) or below for a minimum of 15 hours. ”
The second concern with undercooked fish is bacteria. While  freezing kills parasites, it does 
not kill bacteria; it just puts them “on ice. ” (This is why researchers routinely store bacterial 
samples at –94°F / –70°C to preserve them for future study.) Luckily, most bacteria in fish 
exist on the surface due to improper handling, so a quick pan sear will eradicate them.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 184If your grocery store sells both raw and “sashimi-grade” fish, the difference 
between the two will be in the handling and care related to the chances of surface 
contamination, and in many cases the sashimi-grade fish will have been previously 
frozen if it’s of a species of concern. The US FDA doesn’t actually define what 
sashimi-grade or sushi-grade means, but it does explicitly state that fish known to 
harbor parasites and not intended to be completely cooked before serving must 
be freeze-pasteurized. Some types of tuna and farm-raised fish (those that are fed 
only food pellets that wouldn’t contain live parasites) are exempt from this freezing 
requirement, as the parasites of concern aren’t found in them. 
Parasites are to fish as bugs are to veggies: if you’ve eaten vegetables, 
you’ve eaten bugs; if you’ve eaten fish, you’ve eaten worms.
Luckily for oyster lovers, the US FDA excludes molluscan shellfish from the freezing 
requirement. Oysters can still carry V. vulnificus , which is undetectable at the dinner 
table. The number of reported cases of V. vulnificus  infections spikes between May 
and October ( V. vulnificus  does better in warmer water), so buyer beware, and if 
you’re in an at-risk group, skip the raw oysters. (Sorry, Mom!)
Safe Undercooked Foods
What if you’re cooking for someone who can’t 
accept the risks of undercooked food, but they 
insist on a medium-rare hamburger or fish cooked 
mi-cuit —semicooked to a delicious texture? There 
are a few options for eliminating foodborne 
pathogens without overcooking the protein.
For fish, give frozen a chance. Look for “previously 
frozen” on display labels or head straight to the 
freezer section. Some stores sell frozen fish that’s 
downright gross—mushy, bland, uninspiring—
but this isn’t entirely because  the fish was 
frozen. (Technically speaking, freezing does 
cause some types of proteins to denature; adding 
glutamate inhibits this.) Some of the best sushi 
chefs in Japan use quick-frozen tuna because it’s exceptionally good. Frozen at sea right after it’s 
caught (in a slurry of liquid nitrogen and dry ice), 
the tuna doesn’t have much time to deteriorate. 
Try a few different brands as quality varies; thaw 
overnight in the fridge for better texture.
For meats, whole-muscle intact cuts are easy to 
handle: sear the outside and you’re good to go. If 
you want to cook ground meats like hamburger 
to only medium-rare, look for “cold pasteurized” 
products; they are either irradiated (look for 
“treated by irradiation” on the label) or processed 
with electron-beam pasteurization. Several online 
specialty meat vendors sell cold-pasteurized meats; 
if you’re unable to find them in a local store, search 
for “irradiated” in the product search field.
Wash can lids before 
opening them—and wash 
the can opener, too! The 
blade picks up food while 
cutting through the lid.140°F / 60°C: The End of the Danger Zone 185
Belgian Meatballs
Ground meats are all outside, no inside, which is 
why they need to be cooked to higher temperatures 
than whole-muscle intact cuts. There’s a reason 
cafeterias, hospitals, and airlines don’t serve 
medium-rare hamburgers: the potential for 
foodborne illness is too great. But meatballs, 
customarily being cooked ahead of time, are always 
cooked to done and delicious.
There’s only one wrong way to make a meatball, 
and that’s to undercook it. Otherwise, seasoning 
and serving style are entirely up to your tastes. 
Every culture has some form of meatball dish that 
combines various ground meats with spices. Belgian 
meatballs, ballekes , are made with a combination of 
ground beef, ground pork, onions, and breadcrumbs, 
which suits my tastes. Any mixture of ground meats 
will work; just make sure you have enough fat in 
whatever you use, or the meatballs will come out 
tough and dry. As for seasonings, that’s down to 
personal preference. Try adding bacon, fennel, chili 
pepper, or whatever else inspires you.
Set out a plate with a sheet of plastic wrap on top, 
for the uncooked meatballs.
In a medium to large bowl, mix:
 1 medium (110g) onion, finely chopped
 ½ cup (45g) breadcrumbs, about 1 slice of 
bread 
 2 tablespoons (8g) dried oregano
 1 teaspoon (6g) salt
Add:
 1 large (50g) egg
 ½ pound (~250g) ground pork
 ½ pound (~250g) ground beef, 80–85% 
muscle / 15–20% fatUsing your fingers, work the mix together, loosely 
pulling the ground meat apart as necessary to 
combine. Mixing with a spoon won’t work as well; 
plus it’ll mash up the meat more.
Form meatballs—I like mine at about a 2" / 5 cm 
diameter, but if you’re using them in soup, go 
smaller—and transfer them to a plate. Wash your 
hands and the bowl thoroughly.
In a sauté pan over medium heat, melt 2 
tablespoons (30g) of butter . Once it’s melted, use 
a pair of tongs to place about half the meatballs 
in the pan, taking care to not overly crowd the 
pan. Cook the meatballs, flipping them every few 
minutes, until the entire outside is deep brown. 
Wash the tongs once the outsides of the meatballs 
are uniformly brown.
Once the meatballs are seared, optionally add 
sauce to the pan— 2 cups (480 mL) pasta sauce  
should about fill the pan—and simmer it over low 
heat. Otherwise, continue sautéing the meatballs 
over medium heat or finish them in a moderately 
hot oven.
Cook until a digital probe thermometer poked into 
the center of the meatballs shows a temperature 
of 160°F / 71°C. The model I have has a long lead 
cable and alarm mode, so I set it to beep at 155°F 
/ 68°C to let me know when cooking is almost 
done.
In the US, “hamburger” can have beef fat added to 
it; “ground beef” cannot.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 186Storage Tips for Perishable Foods
Seafood.  Seafood  is the most perishable item you’re likely to handle. Ideally, seafood 
should be used on the day of purchase. A day or two later is okay, but past that point 
enzymes and spoilage bacteria begin to break down amine compounds, resulting in 
that undesirable fishy odor.
Fun science fact: Fish live in an environment that is roughly the same 
temperature as your fridge. The specific activity of some enzymes is much higher in fish than mammals at these temperatures. Putting seafood on ice buys more time by increasing the activation energy needed for these reactions. Meat is already far enough away from the ideal reaction temperatures that the few extra degrees gained by storing it on ice don’t change much, which is why your fish counter has ice but the meat counter doesn’t.
Meats.  Follow the sell-by or use-by date. The sell-by date  is the date after which the 
store shouldn’t consider the product safe for sale. (Not that you should push it, but it’s 
not as if the meat will suddenly turn green and smelly at 12:01 a.m. the next day.) The 
use-by date , as you’d imagine, is the recommended deadline to cook the food. If you 
have a package of chicken whose use-by date is today, cook it today, even if you’re not 
ready to eat it. You can store the cooked product for a few more days.
Always  store raw meats at the bottom of your refrigerator. This reduces the likelihood 
of cross-contamination  because any liquid runoff from the meats won’t be able to drip 
onto other foods, like lettuce, that are eaten raw. Storing meats below other foods is 
required by health code in commercial establishments—that’s how important this is!
If you can’t cook the fish or meat you’ve bought on or before its use-by date, toss it in 
a freezer set to 0°F / –18°C or colder. Freezing will affect meat’s texture, but at least 
the food won’t go to waste. Frozen foods are indefinitely safe, but enzymes present in 
the meat will remain active and change its texture for the worse, noticeably so after 
between 3 and 12 months.
Freezing foods does not kill bacteria. It takes being zapped with radiation (cold pasteurization) to render bacteria nonviable in Salmonella-contaminated meats—nice to know, but not very helpful unless you happen to have some cobalt-60 lying around.
Fruits and vegetables.  How you process and store fruits and vegetables impacts 
their ripeness and flavor, and can also delay the growth of mold. See page 119 for 
storage tips for seasonal produce.141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set 187141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set
135ºF / 57ºC Egg held at this temperature for 75 minutes considered pasteurized
141ºF / 61ºC Ovotransferrin (in the white) begins to denature
176ºF / 80ºC Ovalbumin (in the white) begins to denature;  white and yolk /f_irm
194ºF / 90ºC Egg yolk becomes crumbly
149º–158ºF / 65º–70ºC Range that most proteins in egg yolks denature
141º–149ºF / 61º–65ºC Range that most proteins in egg whites denature
100ºF 200ºF 300ºF 400ºF
Important temperatures in chicken eggs.
The lore of eggs is perhaps greater than that of any other ingredient. Eggs are used in both 
savory and sweet dishes, hot soups and frozen desserts, at breakfast and with dinner—and 
every culture uses them. They act as binders holding together meatloaf and stuffing; as rising 
agents in soufflés, certain cakes, and treats like meringues; and as emulsifiers in sauces like 
mayonnaise and hollandaise. Eggs provide structure to custards and body to ice creams. And all 
of this so far doesn’t even touch on their flavor or the simple joys of a perfectly cooked fresh egg. 
Eggs  have a light part and a dark part, and bind the culinary world together—no wonder 
they’re incredible! Next time you crack an egg into a frying pan, take a close look at what 
you see. There should be four visible parts along with the shell: the yolk, a thick white up 
near the yolk, a thin and watery white around the edge, and somewhere, a little white 
twisty thing called the chalaza . Each part has its own function:
• The shell  itself is a marvel of engineering: shaped to allow a weak newborn chick an 
easy escape while protecting it from the outside world. (If you don’t mind wasting 
an egg, hold one in the palm of your hand, wrap your fingers around it, and then 
squeeze it over a sink. It takes a strong grip to break it!) Right below the shell 
are two tough membranes, made mostly of collagen proteins. The shell and the 
membranes have to allow air in and out so a developing chick can breathe, while 
keeping bacteria and pathogens out. By one estimate, the shell of a chicken egg 
has upward of 17,000 microscopic holes in it! The color of the shell has to do with 
the breed of chicken and has no impact on taste or nutrition. 
• The yolk , contrary to what I thought as a kid, is not where the animal comes from. 
Yolks are about half water, half nutrients; the nutrients are two-thirds lipids, one-
third protein, along with lots of fat-soluble micronutrients. They get their orange 
color from pigmentation in the chickens’ feed. Darker yolks might seem more 
appealing but don’t actually indicate better nutritional properties compared to 
lighter or even cream-colored yolks. Structurally, the yolk is composed of many 
layers of fats deposited around a center in almost-concentric rings. The layers are 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 188difficult to see in a hard-cooked chicken egg, but should you ever happen to hard-
cook an ostrich egg—an expensive undertaking I’ve done exactly once—you can 
peel away the various fat layers of the cooked yolk.
• The  chalaza  is a twisted cord near the yolk that centers it in the egg, preventing the 
yolk from settling to the bottom of the shell. There’s really not much culinary value 
to the chalaza. You can fish it out with a fork, or if you’re whisking eggs into a liquid 
for something like a sauce or custard, strain it out.
• The  thick white  is what  you see snugged up against the yolk when frying an egg is 
called the outer thick white. The whites in chicken eggs are 88–90% water; the rest 
is protein. What makes the thick white thick is a higher concentration of one of the 
proteins, ovomucin . One measure of egg quality is based on the height of the thick 
white when the egg is cracked onto a flat surface, and like everything else in food, 
this has its own special  unit: Haugh units , named for the inventor Raymond Haugh 
(not someone with a bad accent saying, “How haugh is that white?”).
• The thin whites  are runny and exist in two places: the thin outer white, found next 
to the eggshell’s membranes, and the inner white, right on the outside of the yolk. 
It’s the thin outer white that you see as a watery puddle around the thick white 
when looking down into the frying pan. Like the thick white, thin whites are mostly 
water with some proteins mixed in. Older eggs have more thin white as the thick 
white breaks down over time (and thus are measurable with Haugh units).
The challenge of cooking eggs comes from how these parts of the egg change over time 
and the way different proteins respond to heat. An egg is a complex, dynamic system that’s 
constantly changing: the thick white breaks down, air flows in and out of the shell, water 
evaporates—they’re not perfect little time capsules, frozen in time and space!
The main change in eggs as they age is in their pH. A chicken hen deposits carbon dioxide 
into the egg white as it is formed, giving the white a pH of between 7.6 and 8.4. Over the 
course of several weeks—or a few days at room temperature—the carbon dioxide comes 
Bad
 Good
What’s the right way to crack an egg?
Tap it on the counter, not the edge of a bowl. The 
shell of an egg cracked on a flat surface will have 
larger pieces that aren’t pushed into the egg. Eggs 
cracked on a sharp lip are much more likely to have 
little shards of shell poked into them that then end 
up in the bowl and have to be fetched out. (If that 
does happen, use half of the broken eggshell as a 
scoop to fetch out the shard.)
141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set 189out of solution and migrates away through the eggshell’s pores, driving the 
pH of the white up between 9.1 and 9.3. Changes in pH cause the thick white 
to break down, increasing the volume of the thin white.
In cooking, the pH changes make older eggs easier to peel when hard-
cooked; the inner membrane binds less tightly to the egg white. If you’re lucky 
enough to have your own chickens, let the eggs rest for a few days at room 
temperature before hard-cooking them; steaming them also makes them far 
easier to peel. The change in volume of the thin white from the pH change 
leads to more wisps of whites floating around when you’re poaching eggs; 
straining them is far easier than using vinegar (see page 193 for cooking tips).
Now, for the complicated and fascinating part about cooking eggs: different 
proteins in the different parts of the eggs respond at various rates to heat. The 
whites and yolk are composed of dozens of different types of proteins, each 
of which begins to denature at a different temperature and progresses at a 
different rate. Let’s dig into some protein stuff here; it’ll help you make sense 
of the nifty photo and chart accompanying this discussion.
In their natural, native state, you can think of the proteins as curled-up little 
balls. They take this shape because portions of the molecular structure are 
hydrophobic  (“water fearing”). Some of the atoms making up the protein are 
electromagnetically repulsed by the polar charge of water. Because of this 
aversion to water, those atoms cause the protein structure to fold up on itself.
As kinetic energy is added to the protein—usually from heat but also from 
mechanical energy (e.g., whisking egg whites)—the hydrophobic regions 
of the molecules start to unfold. This more open structure can then become 
tangled with other proteins, snagging around them and coagulating to form 
a linked structure. This is why cooked eggs are firm instead of flowing.
One of the most heat-sensitive proteins in chicken eggs is ovotransferrin , which 
begins to readily denature at around 141°F / 61°C and makes up 12% of the 
white’s protein content by weight. (Other species, like ducks, lay eggs with 
different forms and ratios of proteins; I’m going to stick to chicken eggs from 
here on out.) Another protein, ovalbumin , accounts for a whopping 54% of the 
egg white protein and denatures at higher temperatures, around 176°F / 80°C. 
Other egg white proteins denature between these temperatures, and there are 
enough of them that the texture changes over the 35°F / 19°C span between 
ovotransferrin and ovalbumin can lead to many possible outcomes (from 
watery to spreadable to stiff to crumbly). It’s this range that makes poaching 
eggs a fun challenge: not too difficult, but not trivial.Native Denatured Coagulated
Native Denatured Coagulated
Native Denatured Coagulated
Hydrophobic regions of proteins 
in their native state (top) remain 
curled up to avoid interacting with 
the surrounding liquid. With heat, 
they denature (center) and uncurl 
as the kinetic energy exceeds the 
weaker level of energy generated 
by water molecules and regions 
of the proteins that repel each 
other. Once denatured and opened 
up, the hydrophobic parts of 
the protein that were previously 
unexposed can interact and bond 
with other proteins (bottom).
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 190Egg yolk proteins have a tighter temperature span than the whites do. Runny yolks will 
begin to set firmer at between 149°F / 65°C and 158°F / 70°C, although some do set at lower 
temperatures with long holding times. (It’s technically possible to cook the egg yolk firmer 
than the white due to differences in the slopes of the rates of reaction.)
The denaturation of egg proteins, as you’d expect, is a change based on a rate of reaction. 
Proteins don’t denature instantaneously once they reach some magic temperature, and 
their denaturation temperatures change when they’re mixed with 
other compounds. Plus, the temperatures researchers report are 
usually based on isolating the proteins, not actually cooking up an 
egg— caveat archimagirus!  And denaturation doesn’t happen with 
just temperature: whisking egg whites works via denaturation as 
well. (We’ll cover whisking later—see page 292.)
Eggs will come out with whites with a soft, custard-like texture when 
cooked at above 141°F / 61°C for long enough to denature some of 
the proteins. If you heat an egg up above 156°F / 70°C for sufficient time, the white will have a 
firm, sliceable texture—good for sliced eggs and egg sandwiches. Above 176°F / 80°C for too 
long, the whites will become rubbery (presumably from ovalbumin denaturation). Proteins 
in the yolk will also overcook, producing a dry, unpleasant yolk. (Plus, you’ll end up with a 
grey surface on the yolk as sulfide compounds from the white mix with iron in the yolk.) 
Sometimes a picture is worth a thousand words, so check out the upcoming photo of eggs 
cooked at different times and temperatures.
Soft-cooked and hard-cooked eggs are normally prepared in nearly boiling water or by 
steaming them. Cooking for 7–8 minutes will yield a soft-cooked egg and 11–12 minutes 
creates a nice hard-cooked one. Lower temperatures will increase the cooking time, but work Your average, run-of-the-mill (or is that 
run-of-the-yard?) chicken laid only 84 
eggs per year a century ago. By the 
turn of the millennium, improvements 
in breeding and feed had pushed this 
number up to 292 eggs per year—
almost 3.5 times more. 
When a recipe calls for an egg, what size should you use?
By default, use large eggs, unless you’re in the EU, in which case use medium eggs 
when following American recipes. The different regions use different definitions for 
sizing eggs (weights include the shell!).
Small
43 50 57 64 71
73 63 53Medium Large X Large Jumbo
SmallUSDA:
EU:Medium
Weight in GramsLarge X Large
141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set 191just fine—and for soft-cooked eggs are far, far better. Should you have the gear to hold an 
egg at a precise temperature in water, cooking for an hour or so at 144°F / 62°C will give you a 
runny soft-boiled egg, and 147°F / 64°C will result in something just on the edge of setting.
Time and temperature for eggs is exceedingly complicated. I’ve joked that an entire college 
course could be taught using only eggs. There are plenty of other details with eggs: how 
quickly the proteins denature changes their texture (faster denaturation leads to a finer gel 
structure of the white); egg whites are one of only two alkaline ingredients in the standard 
kitchen (the other being baking soda); and of course, which came first (the egg—reptiles were 
around long before chickens). Different species of birds have their own quirks—duck egg 
whites, for example, are harder to whisk up, but adding an acid like lemon juice improves them. 
I could go on and on about eggs, but then I’d have to change the name of this chapter… 
Why do some countries refrigerate eggs but not others?
Eggs are refrigerated to prevent Salmonella enteritidis  infection, but not because 
they’ve been washed! Yes, washing the shell of an egg does damage the cuticle to 
an extent that bacteria could get in, but the more likely route to Salmonella- infected 
eggs is the chicken that laid them: chickens infected with S. enteritidis  can infect the 
eggs as they’re formed. Refrigerating eggs prevents the bacteria from multiplying, 
lowering the chances that a sunny-side-up egg will land you sunny-side down.
S. enteritidis  started popping up in eggs in the US in the 1970s, around the time that 
other strains of Salmonella  that had been killing chickens were eradicated. Careful 
flock management and vaccination of chickens prevent infection. If the chickens in 
your area are known to be free of S. enteritidis , then storing their eggs in the fridge 
isn’t necessary, although it will double the eggs’ shelf life.
Eggs cooked at different times (y-axis) and 
temperatures (x-axis), from 6 minutes to 60 minutes 
and from 135°F / 57°C to 162°F / 72°C. 
 135°F
57°C162°F
72°C60
min
62442
RawHard
Soft
Cloudy
144°F
62°C153°F
67°C
Here’s a labeled chart of the time and temperature 
egg photo. Proteins set at different rates at 
different temperatures; eggs become cloudy 
as the most heat-sensitive proteins denature 
before they soft-cook or hard-cook.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 192
Crème Anglaise, Vanilla Custard, and Bread Pudding
Ancient Romans figured this one out a long time 
ago: egg yolks mixed with cream and something 
sweet is delicious. Crème Anglaise, custards, and 
bread pudding are all successive improvements on 
the original idea, and all rely on egg for texture and 
flavor. 
Crème Anglaise is also the base for vanilla ice cream. 
Freeze it in an ice cream maker, or see page 361 
for more creative ways of making it. It also makes 
great French toast—soak thick slices of bread in the 
mixture for 10–15 minutes, then sauté in butter over 
medium-low heat for 3–5 minutes per side.
In a mixing bowl, thoroughly whisk together:
 4 large (80g) egg yolks 
 2 cups (480 mL) half-and-half; or 1 cup (240 
mL) milk and 1 cup (240 mL) cream
 2 teaspoons (10 mL) vanilla extract; 
optionally add scrapings from ½ vanilla 
bean, sliced lengthwise
 ¼ cup (50g) sugar
  Pinch of salt
Pour the mixture through a fine-mesh strainer into 
a second bowl to separate out the eggs’ chalazae.
Crème Anglaise:  Heat the mixture in a saucepan 
over medium heat until it reaches 170°F / 77°C, 
the point at which it just coats the back of a metal spoon. Take care to not overheat it; you’ll 
end up with egg curds.
Custard:  To make custard, pour the mixture into 
small serving ramekins or oven-safe cups and 
place them in a baking pan. Add enough water to 
the baking pan to submerge the ramekins or cups 
halfway up and then bake them in an oven at 
325°F / 160°C for 45–60 minutes.
Bread pudding:  To make bread pudding, slice about 
half of a small loaf of bread (250g)  into ½–1" / 
1–2 cm cubes—about 4 cups’ worth. Try using a 
cinnamon-raisin bread to add additional flavor, or 
add ¼ cup (40g) dried fruit  and 1 tablespoon 
(8g) cinnamon  to the mix. Transfer the cubes to 
a baking pan or individual serving cups, add the 
Crème Anglaise mix, and bake in a 325°F / 160°C 
oven for about 30–60 minutes, checking that the 
custard is set by jiggling the pan or cups and 
seeing that it holds its shape. 
Slice the bean 
open with a 
knife and then 
use a spoon to 
scrape the vanilla 
seeds out.
What’s half-and-half?
Half-and-half is half milk; half cream. In the United 
States, half-and-half must legally contain 10.5–18% 
milkfat. You can make your own half-and-half by 
mixing milk and cream. For a chart of fat levels in 
different types of milk and cream, see page 300.
Super-premium ice cream—the highest grade of 
ice cream sold in the grocery store—is 10–16% 
fat. If you’re using Crème Anglaise for making ice 
cream, aim for 12–22% fat (by weight). This recipe 
is about 12% fat; use whole cream instead of half-
and-half for a 22% fat version.
141°F / 61°C: Eggs Begin to Set 193Poached Eggs
You can poach eggs hours in advance, which makes 
them great for breakfast or brunch with friends. 
Slightly undercook them and store them in an 
ice-chilled water bath; when ready to use, briefly 
reheat them for a minute in a pan of hot water. 
There are three challenges to cooking poached eggs: 
feathery whites, flavor, and a properly set yolk.
• Feathery whites , the wispy junk on the outside 
of a poorly poached egg, are created from the 
outer thin layer of egg white mixing with hot 
water as the egg poaches. The outer thin layer 
has a lower concentration of ovomucin , the 
protein that makes egg whites thick. There’s 
an easy solution to feathery whites: drain the 
egg through a small fine mesh filter or slotted 
spoon before poaching. (Swirling the water 
to create a vortex and placing the egg in the 
center helps too, but cooking eggs one at a 
time is tedious for larger numbers.)
• Flavor , in my book, is why salt or vinegar 
should be added to the water. An egg poached 
in plain water is unseasoned and tastes flat; 
adding salt (about a 1–3% salt solution) 
vastly, vastly improves a poached egg’s flavor. 
Vinegar is commonly added to solve the 
feathery white problem, and it does help, but 
it also imparts a flavor that I don’t care for. If 
you like it though, add it.
• Properly set yolks  are created by proper time 
at temperature. Cook room-temperature eggs 
in simmering (180–190°F / 82–88°C) water 
for 2–3 minutes; 
shorter if you 
like them runny, 
longer if you like 
them firm.
Easy-to-Peel 
Hard-Cooked Eggs
When I wrote  the first edition of Cooking for 
Geeks , I included a clever “shock and awe” 
solution for creating tasty, easy-to-peel hard-
cooked (hard-boiled) eggs. Shocking the eggs in 
boiling water for 30 seconds makes them easy 
to peel; then cooking them in a fresh batch of 
cold water brought to a near-boil finishes them 
with a more pleasing texture. Since then, I’ve 
discovered—well, rediscovered—that steaming 
eggs is far better. When the egg is steamed, the 
shell will crack and fall right off into two pieces.
Make sure your eggs are a few days old—or at 
least that the eggs have a pH on the higher side 
of things. If you’re lucky enough to have really 
fresh eggs, they can be harder to peel.
Optionally poke a hole in the bottom end of the 
shell, where the air pocket is. This doesn’t make 
sense when you’re cooking eggs in water—the 
water gets in and screws stuff up—but when you’re 
steaming eggs, the hole will prevent the shell 
from cracking by giving air from the air pocket an 
escape route as it expands during heating.
Boil ½" / 1 cm of water in the bottom of a pan, 
add the eggs, cover them with a lid, and wait 
12 minutes. Keep the heat on high the entire 
time; you need steam to be constantly hitting 
the eggs for them to cook.
Before peeling the eggs, let them cool down. You 
don’t need to shock them in cold water to make 
them easy to peel, but dropping them in cold 
water—no ice necessary—will make the shape 
of the egg rounder (no “flat bottom”). You can 
peel them when they’re still steaming hot, but 
you need a little bit of water to 
release the inner membrane 
from the outer white.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 194
Slow Scrambled Eggs
Scrambling eggs is easy—if you don’t overcook them. 
For regular scrambled eggs, use medium heat—never 
high!—and remove them from the burner just before 
you think they’re done. The carryover heat in the eggs 
will continue to cook them.
The 30-minute method involves ultra-low heat, 
continuous stirring, and a vigilant eye. It takes 
time, but after many years of eating eggs, it’s nice 
to have them cooked a new way. Cooking the eggs 
over very low heat while continuously stirring 
breaks up the curds and evaporates most of the 
water, giving them a flavor that can be described 
as cheese- or creamlike and not like regular 
scrambled eggs—try them unseasoned, without 
even salt, to appreciate their flavor.
In a bowl, crack two or three eggs  and whisk 
them thoroughly to combine the whites and 
yolks. Don’t add any salt or other seasonings; do 
this with just eggs. Transfer them to a nonstick 
pan on a burner set to the lowest heat possible.
Stir the eggs continuously with a silicone 
spatula, doing a “random walk” so that your 
spatula hits all parts of the pan. And low heat 
means really  low heat: there’s no need for the 
pan to exceed 160°F / 71°C. If your burner is 
too hot, pull the pan off the stovetop for a 
minute to keep it from overheating. If you see 
any curds (lumps of scrambled eggs) forming, 
your pan is too hot.
Continue stirring until the eggs have set to a 
custard-like consistency. When I timed myself, 
this took about 20 
minutes, but you might 
reach this point in as 
few as 15 minutes or 
upward of half an hour.
Oven-Roasted Eggs
Here’s a simple way to cook eggs for a brunch or 
dinner for one. Improvise! Add cheese, herbs, and 
grains. Try adding some crushed red pepper flakes 
to the breakfast version or sriracha sauce to the 
dinner version to give it a kick. You can prepare 
the dish a day or two in advance and stash it in 
the fridge, cooking it when you’re ready.
In an individually sized oven-safe bowl (ideally, 
one that you can serve in), add:
Breakfast version:
 1 cup (30g) fresh chopped spinach
 3 tablespoons (20g) grated mozzarella 
cheese
 3 tablespoons (45 mL) heavy cream
 1 tablespoon (15g) butter
Dinner version:
 ½ cup (100g) crushed tomatoes
 ¼ cup (50g) black beans—canned is easiest
Create a well in the center of the ingredients by 
pushing the food into a ring around the edges 
of the bowl. Crack 1 or 2 eggs  into the well, 
add a pinch of salt  and some freshly ground 
pepper , cover the mixture with aluminum foil, 
and bake it in a preheated oven set to 350°F / 
180°C until the egg is set, about 25 minutes. (I 
use a probe thermometer set to beep at 140°F 
/ 60°C so I can absentmindedly wander off 
or chat with friends without worrying about 
overcooking the eggs.)
Fun trivia: Quail eggs weigh about 9 grams 
on average, while duck eggs typically weigh 
70 grams. I was happy to learn that ducks 
themselves are also about eight times heavier 
than quails (just in case you find yourself on 
Jeopardy!).154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures 195154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures
~59ºF / ~15ºC Gelatin sets into a gel, given enough time
95ºF / 35ºC Type V collagen (common in squid) readily denatures, becomes rubbery
154.4ºF / 68ºC Type I collagen (common in beef) readily denatures, becomes rubbery
158–176ºF / 70–80ºC Type I and V collagens hydrolyze, 
within a few hours; some of it converts to gelatin
84–95ºF / 29–35ºC Approximate melting point of gelatin
(depends on gelatin type and storage conditions)
300ºF 200ºF 100ºF
Temperatures related to collagen hydrolysis and the resulting gelatin.
When we covered animal proteins and denaturation earlier in this chapter, I mentioned 
that collagen was special enough that it deserved its own section. And here we are! First, a 
quick refresher. Animal proteins—fish and seafood included—can be grouped into three 
categories: structural, connective, and sarcoplasmic. Structural proteins are generally the 
most important ones to manage in cooking, but connective tissues become even more 
important for certain seafood and meats.
An animal’s connective tissues provide structure and support for the muscles and 
organs in its body. You can think of most connective tissues—loose fascia and ligaments 
between muscles as well as other structures such as tendons and bones—as a bit like steel 
reinforcement: they don’t actively contract like muscle tissue, but they provide structure 
against which muscles can pull and contract. (Fun fact: pound for pound, collagen is 
tougher than steel.)
The most common type of protein in connective tissue is collagen, and 
while there are several types of collagen in animals, from a culinary 
perspective the main chemical difference between them is the 
temperature at which they denature. Collagen shows up in two different 
ways: either as discrete chunks like tendons outside of the muscle, or as 
a network that runs through the muscle. Collagen is tough—it provides 
structure, after all—and becomes palatable only given sufficient time at 
sufficiently high temperatures.
It’s easy to deal with collagen that shows up as discrete pieces: get rid of it by cutting it 
off. For cuts of meats that have a thin layer of connective tissue on them ( called silverskin , 
presumably because of its somewhat iridescent appearance), cut off as much as possible 
and discard it. Beef tenderloin cuts commonly have a side with this layer; trim off as much 
as possible before cooking. Chicken breasts also have a small but noticeable tendon 
connected to the chicken tenderloin. Uncooked, it’s a pearlescent white ribbon. After Pressure cookers work wonders 
on collagen. Since the reaction 
rate for breaking down collagen 
is temperature dependent, 
raising the temperature up to 
250°F / 120°C cuts cooking time 
by ~75%. See page 308 for more 
about pressure cookers.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 196cooking, it turns into that small, white, rubber-band-like thing that you can chew on 
endlessly yet never get any satisfaction from. Generally, this type of collagen is easy to spot, 
and if you miss it, it’s easy to notice while eating and can be left on the plate.
The collagen that forms a 3D network through the muscle tissue is tougher to manage 
(pardon the pun). For cuts of meats that are high in it, the only way to remove its tough 
texture is to cook it—usually with long, slow cooking methods. The rate of reaction for 
collagen is much, much  slower than for other proteins in meat. To understand the cooking 
challenges and how to solve certain problems you might see, we need to dive into the 
molecular structure of collagen.
In its native form, collagen is like a rope: it’s a linear molecule composed of three different 
strands that are twisted together. The three strands are held together by weak secondary 
bonds (but there are a lot of them!) and stabilized by a small number of crosslinks , which are 
stronger covalent bonds. ( Covalent bonds  are bonds where the electrons from an atom in 
one location are shared with another atom.)
NativeCrosslinks Crosslinks
Denatured Coagulated Hydrolyzed
Crosslinks
 Crosslinks
Collagen in its native form is a triple helix, held together in its helical structure by secondary bonds (left) 
and stabilized by crosslinks. Under heat, the secondary bonds break and the protein becomes denatured, 
but the crosslinks between the strands continue to hold the structure together (second from left). Given 
sufficient heat and time, the strands in the triple helix themselves break down via hydrolysis (third from 
left) and, upon cooling, convert to a loose network of molecules (right) that retains water (a gel).
In addition to being crosslinked, the strands also form a helical structure because of 
secondary bonds between different regions of the same molecules. You can think of it like 
a braided rope, where each strand wraps around the other two strands. It has a “curl” to it 
because the internal structure finds its optimal resting place in that shape.
Under the right conditions—in cooking, exposure to enough heat or the right kinds of acids—
the native form of collagen denatures, losing its linear structure and untwisting into a random 
mess. This happens from kinetic energy literally vibrating the structure, bouncing it around. Too 
much bouncing around, and the electromagnetic energy that normally holds the triple helix 
structure in place can’t keep things together. As the energy increases, the collagen changes 
even more, tightening and shrinking up to about a third to a fourth of its original length. (There’s 
only one way for a protein to be native, but many ways for it to be wrong.)154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures 197Acids can also denature the collagen protein: their chemical properties provide the 
necessary electromagnetic pull to disrupt the secondary bonds of the helical structure. 
It’s only the twisting that goes away during denaturing in collagen; the crosslinks remain 
in place and the strands remain intact. In this form, collagen is like rubber—it actually is a 
rubber from a material science point of view—and for this reason you’ll find its texture...
well, rubbery.
Given even more heat or acid, though, the collagen structure undergoes another  important 
transformation: the strands themselves get chopped up and lose their backbone, and 
at this point the collagen has no real large-scale structure left. This reaction is called 
hydrolysis —thermal hydrolysis in the case of heat, acid hydrolysis in the case of acid. 
Hydrolysis takes time due to the amount of energy needed to break the bonds and the 
stochastic processes involved.
Hydrolyzing collagen not only breaks down the rubbery texture of the denatured structure, 
but also converts a portion of it to  gelatin. (This is where gelatin—the stuff that makes 
Jell-O—comes from!) When collagen hydrolyzes, it breaks into variously sized pieces, the 
smaller of which are able to dissolve into the surrounding liquid, creating gelatin. Gelatin 
gives dishes such as braised oxtail, slow-cooked short ribs, and duck confit their distinctive 
mouthfeel. Gelatin can also be extracted and added to other dishes, making gelatin 
desserts, aspics, and many other products.
Since dishes like short ribs and braised oxtail rely on gelatin to provide that wonderful 
texture, they need to be made with high-collagen cuts of meat. Trying to make a beef stew 
with lean cuts will result in tough, dry meat. The actin proteins will denature (recall that this 
readily occurs at temperatures of 150–163°F / 66–73°C), but the gelatin won’t be present in 
the muscle tissue to mask the dryness and toughness brought about by the denatured actin. 
Don’t try to “upgrade” your beef stew with a more expensive cut of meat; it won’t work!
“Great, ” you might be thinking, “but how does any of this tell me whether I need to slow-
cook a piece of meat?” Think about the piece of meat (or fish or poultry) that you’re working 
with and consider what part of the animal it comes from. For a land-based animal, those 
regions of the animal that bear weight generally have higher levels of collagen. 
This should make sense. Because the weight-bearing portions have a higher load, they 
need more structure, so they’ll have more connective tissue. This isn’t a perfect rule of 
thumb, though, and cuts of meat generally have more than one muscle group in them.
For animals like fish, which don’t have to support their weight on land, the collagen levels 
are much lower. Squid and octopus are notable exceptions to this weight-bearing rule. 
Their collagen provides support equivalent to that of bone structures for fish. The trick to 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 198cooking them is either to give them a very brief exposure to heat, keeping the proteins 
native, or to give them enough time at temperature to hydrolyze. Anything in between, and 
you’ve got rubber.
Another rule of thumb on collagen: older animals have higher levels of collagen. As animals 
age, the collagen structure has more time to form additional crosslinks between the strands 
in the collagen helix, resulting in increased toughness. This is why older chickens are 
traditionally cooked in long, slow roasts. (The French go so far as to use different words for 
old versus young chickens: poule  instead of poulet .) Most animals raised for meat are young 
at time of slaughter, so age is as important a factor as the type or cut of meat.
The other easy rule of thumb for collagen levels is to look at the relative price of the meat: 
because high-collagen cuts require more work to cook and come out with a generally drier 
texture, people tend to favor other cuts, so the high-collagen cuts are cheaper.
Try marinating a small cube of meat in mashed up papaya—which contains an 
enzyme, papain , that acts as a meat tenderizer by hydrolyzing collagen—and then 
feeling its texture.
Brisket = Deep Pectoral
~1.03% collagen
Moist cook 2–3 hoursShort Ribs + Stew Beef = Serratus Ventralis
~0.82% collagen
Moist cook 4–6 hoursEye of Round = Semitendinosus
~0.74% collagen
Moist cook ~3 hoursChuck Eye = Longissimus Dorsi
~1.00% collagen
Moist cook 2–3 hoursRib Eye = Longissimus Thoracis, Longissimus Dorsi
~0.94% collagen
3.5 hours on barbecue
Chuck Rib
BrisketPlateFlank
RoundShort
Loin
Sirloin
Cuts of meat from a part of an animal that supports its weight will be higher in collagen and 
need a longer cooking time—primarily muscles in the chuck, rib, brisket, and round.154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures 199
Tomato, Herb, and Squid Bruschetta
Squid was a culinary mystery to me for a long 
time. You either cook it for a few minutes or an 
hour; anywhere in between, and it becomes tough, 
like chewing on rubber bands. (Not that I chew on 
rubber bands often enough to say what that’s like.) 
Why is this?
The collagen in squid is enjoyable in either its native 
state or hydrolyzed state, but not in its denatured 
state. It takes a few minutes to denature, so with 
just a quick pan sear it remains in its native state 
(tossed with some fresh tomatoes and dropped on 
top of bruschetta, it’s delicious). And hydrolysis 
takes hours to occur, so a slowly simmered braised 
octopus turns out fine. Braising it in tomatoes 
further helps by dropping the pH levels, which 
accelerates the hydrolysis process.
To make a simple squid bruschetta, start by 
preparing a loaf of French or Italian bread  by 
slicing it into ½" / 1 cm slices. You can create 
larger slices by cutting on a bias. (Save the 
triangular end piece for munching on when no 
one is looking.) Lightly coat both sides of the 
bread with olive oil  (this is normally done with a 
pastry brush, but if you don’t have one, you can 
either fold up a paper towel and “brush” with it 
or pour olive oil onto a plate and briefly dip the 
bread into it). Toast the bread. A broiler works 
best (the slices of bread should be 4–6" / 10–15 
cm from the heat). Flip the slices as soon as they 
begin to turn golden brown. If you don’t have a 
broiler, you can use an oven set to 400°F / 200°C. 
For small batches, a toaster also works.
Once your bread is toasted, place it on a plate and 
store it in the oven (with the heat off) so that it 
remains warm.Slice with a knife or, better yet, cut into bite-
sized pieces using kitchen shears:
 1 pound (450g) squid (either a mix of 
bodies and tentacles or just bodies)
Bring a sauté pan up to medium heat. You want 
the pan hot enough so that the squid will quickly 
come to temperature. Add a small amount of 
olive oil —enough to coat the pan thinly when 
swirled—and drop the squid into the pan.
Use a wooden spoon or silicone spatula to stir the 
squid. Take note when it starts to turn white—it 
should become subtly less translucent—and cook 
it for another 30 seconds or so. Add to the pan 
and toss to combine:
 1 cup (250g) diced tomato (about 2 medium 
tomatoes, seeds removed)
 1 tablespoon (5g) fresh herbs, such as 
oregano or parsley
 ¼ teaspoon (1g) sea salt
  Ground pepper to taste
Transfer the squid and tomato topping to a bowl 
and serve it with the toasted bread.
Try using a pair of kitchen shears to snip the 
squid into small pieces directly into a hot pan. 
Add tomatoes and herbs, toss, and serve.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 200Duck Confit
Duck confit—duck legs cooked in fat—tastes entirely different from duck cooked almost 
any other way. It’s like bacon and pork—to quote Homer Simpson, they’re from “some 
wonderful, magical animal.” (Apparently my magical animal is the duck…)
Good duck confit is succulent, flavorful, tender, mouth-watering, and perhaps a bit salty. 
Cooking duck “confit-style” is all about converting tough collagen proteins into gelatin.
I’m a pragmatic cook. Traditional recipes for duck confit prescribe a long, drawn-out 
affair, which is fine for a leisurely Sunday afternoon spent in the company of friends and 
a bottle of good wine, but doesn’t line up with keeping things simple.
The secret to duck confit is in the time and temperature, not the actual cooking 
technique. The upshot? You can make duck confit in a slow cooker or in an oven set at 
an ultra-low temperature. The type of fat used to cook the duck doesn’t matter either; 
some experiments have shown that duck confit cooked in water and then coated in oil is 
indistinguishable from traditionally cooked duck confit. Regardless, definitely skip the 
exotic block of duck fat; duck legs are expensive enough as it is.
Rub salt into the outside of the duck legs , 1 per person , covering both the side with 
skin and the side with meat exposed. I use roughly 1 tablespoon (18g) of salt per 
duck leg ; you want enough to coat the outside thoroughly.
Place the salted duck legs in a bowl or plastic bag and store them in the fridge for 
several hours to brine. Salting the meat adds flavor and draws out a little bit of the 
moisture, but if you’re in a real rush, you can skip this step and just lightly coat 
the duck legs with a few pinches of salt. After dry-brining the duck legs, wash off 
all the salt.
Remember: store raw meats in the 
bottom of the fridge so if they drip, the 
runoff won’t contaminate fresh produce 
or ready-to-eat foods.
Duck legs that have been 
cooked long enough 
fall apart easily because 
most of the collagen and 
connective tissues that 
normally hold muscles 
together are gone.154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures 201At this point, you have a choice of heat sources:
Slow-cooker method
Arrange duck legs in the bowl of a slow cooker or in a multipurpose rice or 
pressure cooker. Cover them with oil (I use canola or olive oil ) and set the 
cooker to slow-cook mode for at least 6 hours (preferably 10–12).
Oven method
Arrange duck legs in an oven-safe pan and cover them with oil. Place them in an 
oven set at 170°F / ~80°C for a minimum of 6 hours.
The duck legs will become more tender with longer cook times. I’ve cooked batches 
of 36 duck legs overnight using a large pot held at temperature in an oven. If you do 
cook a large batch, remember that the core temperature needs to get to about 140°F 
/ 60°C within 2 hours. In this case, heat the oil up to ~250°F / 120°C before placing 
the duck legs in it. This way, the hot oil will impart a solid thermal kick to get the 
cold legs up to temperature faster.
After it’s cooked, the duck skin will still be flabby and, frankly, gross. But the meat 
should be tender and yield with a bit of poking. You can either remove the skin 
(pan-sear it by itself for duck lardons!) or score the skin with a knife and then pan-
sear the skin side of the duck legs to crisp it up.
If you are not going to use the duck legs straightaway, store them in the fridge.
After cooking, the oil will be a blend of duck fat and your starting oil. Save it! 
You can also use it for sautéing greens and shallow-frying potatoes.
Notes
• Traditional recipes call for duck fat instead of olive oil. One advantage to the 
duck fat is that, upon cooling to room temperature, it solidifies, encasing and 
sealing the duck leg in a sterilized layer of fat, somewhat like how some jams are 
preserved with a wax seal. If you were living in France a century ago, this would’ve 
been a great way to preserve duck legs for a long winter, but with the invention 
of refrigeration and modern grocery stores, there’s no need for the duck fat to 
store the meat safely for the few days it might last. Use olive oil. It’s cheaper and 
healthier.
• If you pour off the oil and liquid into another container, a layer of gelatin will 
separate out on the bottom once it cools. Use that gelatin! Try tossing it into soups.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 202
Duck Confit in Pasta
Prepare two duck legs, confit-style, as just described. 
These can be done in advance and stored in the fridge. 
If you’re not in the mood to wait a day, check if your 
grocery store sells prepared duck confit, or if you have 
a pressure cooker, use it to rapidly cook the duck legs.
In a large pot, bring salted water  to a boil for 
making pasta.
Prepare the duck meat by pulling the meat off 2 
legs of duck confit , discarding the bones and skin 
or saving them for stock. In a pan, lightly sauté the 
duck leg meat over medium heat to brown it.
To strip the leaves, grip near 
the bud end of the plant...
...then run your fingers down 
toward the base of the stem.Add to the pan:
 28 ounce (800g) can diced tomatoes
 8 ounce (225g) can tomato sauce
 ¼-½ teaspoon (0.5–1g) cayenne pepper
Simmer the tomatoes and tomato sauce for 5 
minutes or so. While the sauce is simmering, 
add to the pot of boiling water and cook per the 
directions on the package:
 1/3 pound (150g) long pasta—ideally, 
pappardelle  (an egg-based noodle with a 
wide, flat shape) or spaghetti
Once the pasta is cooked, strain (but do not rinse) 
it and add it to the sauté pan. Add and stir to 
thoroughly combine:
 2 tablespoons (2g, about 12 sprigs) fresh 
oregano or thyme leaves (dried is nowhere 
near as good)
 ½ cup (50g) grated Parmesan cheese
 ¼ cup (30g) grated mozzarella cheese
Notes
• You might find it easier to transfer the duck 
mixture to the pasta pot and stir in there, 
because your frying pan might not be big 
enough. When serving, you can grate Parmesan 
cheese on top and sprinkle on more of the 
oregano or thyme leaves.
• The secret to this recipe is its combination of 
ingredients: the heat of the cayenne pepper is 
balanced by the fats and sugars in the cheese, 
the fats in the duck are cut by the acids in the 
tomatoes, and the aromatic volatile compounds 
in the fresh herbs bring a freshness to this dish 
that’s just plain delicious. If the world were 
going to end tomorrow, I’d want this tonight.• When you’re separating duck meat from a cold 
duck leg (from the fridge), the duck fat will be 
whitish and slippery; the meat will be darker 
and more strandlike. When in doubt, if it looks 
yummy, it probably is. Since the meat is to be 
browned, don’t include the dark jellylike stuff—
that’s gelatin—as it will melt and then burn as 
the water boils off.
• When pulling fresh thyme off the stem, be careful 
not to get the actual stem in the food. It’s woody, 
chewy, and not enjoyable. Pinch the top of the 
stem with one hand and run the fingers of your 
other hand down the stem, against the direction 
the leaves grow in, to strip them off.154°F / 68°C: Collagen (Type I) Denatures 203
Slow-Cooked Short Ribs
Short ribs and other high-collagen cuts of meat 
aren’t difficult to work with; they just require time at 
a temperature at which the collagen can hydrolyze. 
This is what slow-cooking the meat achieves. Either 
use a cooker with slow-cook mode, or use an oven-
safe baking pan and cook for several hours—this is 
great in the cold months of winter!
(While you can do this quicker in a pressure cooker, 
not everyone has one, and even if you do, you can’t 
see what’s happening to the texture of the meat as 
it cooks.)
This is an intentionally easy recipe, but don’t let 
that fool you about its taste: slow-cooked meats 
can be amazingly  good, and if you’re cooking for a 
dinner party, they make for easy work when you go 
to assemble the dinner.
If you have a rice cooker or pressure cooker, 
check to see if it has a slow-cook setting. In this 
mode, the cooker will heat foods to a temperature 
typically in the range of 170–190°F / 77–88°C, 
which is warm enough to be safe from bacterial contamination and cool enough to not steam-dry 
the meat.
If you don’t have a pressure cooker, use an oven-
safe baking pan and cover it with aluminum foil 
before baking the short ribs in an oven set to 
180°F / ~80°C.
Pour a bottle of barbecue sauce  into the cooking 
container. (I’m listing store-bought sauce here 
because it’s convenient, which is part of the 
appeal of slow cooking; to make your own sauce, 
use the recipe on page 312.)
Add the short ribs , arranging them in a layer so 
that the barbecue sauce covers the meat.
Slow-cook the short ribs for at least 4 hours 
(longer is fine). Try starting this in the morning 
before going to work—the slow cooker will keep 
the food safe, and the extra time will help ensure 
that the collagen is fully dissolved.
Notes
• Ideally, you should pan-sear the short ribs for 
a minute or two before cooking. This will cause 
browning reactions, bringing a richness to the 
final product.
• Keep in mind the danger zone rule covered 
earlier. Don't load up a slow cooker with so 
much cold meat that the cooker will be unable 
to raise the temperature above 140°F / 60°C 
within a 2-hour period.
• Try adding other ingredients to the sauce, or 
making your own sauce if you like. I’ll often 
pour a tablespoon or so of wine or port into the 
empty BBQ sauce jar to “rinse out” the thick 
sauce, then pour the port-sauce slurry into the 
slow cooker.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 204
Try this experiment to see the different states 
of collagen protein: native, denatured, and 
hydrolyzed. Collagen will denature and hydrolyze 
(two different processes!) at different rates based 
on temperature and the specific type of collagen, 
but how long does each take?
First, grab these supplies:
• 6 small samples of high-collagen animal 
tissues—try using slices of squid, either from 
a squid tube sliced into rings or by snagging a 
package of frozen raw calamari; you can also 
use 6 pieces of stewing beef cut into ½" / 1 
cm cubes (beef will take ~3 times longer to 
cook)
• 1 cup / 240 mL neutral-flavored cooking oil, 
such as canola or vegetable oil
• An oven or slow cooker
• 2 forks and a plate
• If you’re using an oven instead of a slow 
cooker:  a small oven-safe container such as a 
glass measuring cup
Here’s what to do:
1. If you’re using an oven:  add the cooking oil to 
the measuring cup and place it in the oven. If 
you’re using a slow cooker:  add the oil to the 
slow cooker container. 
2. Set the oven to 200°F / 95°C, or use a slow 
cooker on either stew or “keep warm” mode.
3. Use a fork to add all the samples to the oil 
and start a timer.4. For seafood tissues like squid:  After 20 
minutes of cooking, use a fork to remove 
one of the samples and set it on a plate for 
later investigation. Repeat every 20 minutes, 
removing another sample.  For mammalian 
tissues like beef:  Remove samples every hour, 
instead of every 20 minutes.
5. Once all the samples are removed, you can 
turn off the oven or slow cooker and discard 
the oil after it’s cooled down.
Investigation time!
Look at the samples on the plate—what do you 
see? Try using the two forks, one in each hand, to 
pull each sample apart, recording which ones are 
easy to pull apart and which are tough.
Extra credit:
Try repeating this experiment with both seafood-
based and mammalian-based samples and compare 
the difference in times.
Another idea: try making beef stew, removing a 
cup of the stew after 30 minutes, a second cup 
after 2 hours, and a third cup after 6 hours. Chew 
on some of the stewed meat pieces to compare the 
texture differences. (Doing this with kids? Do a 
blind experiment to remove the placebo effect: 
blindfold the kids and give them two servings 
of the 2-hour sample and one serving of the 
6-hour sample—can they figure out which one is 
different?)Lab: Collagen Protein Experiment158°F / 70°C: Vegetable Starches Break Down 205158°F / 70°C: Vegetable 
Starches Break Down
140ºF / 60ºC Cell membranes in chloroplasts begin to rupture
180–190ºF / 82–88ºC Most non-grain-based starches dissolve
200–220°F / 93–105°C: Most grain-based starches dissolve/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0/uni00A0
Boiling
Simmering
150–158ºF / 66–70ºC Some hemicelluloses break down
200ºF 250ºF 300ºF 150ºF
Temperatures related to plants and cooking.
Whereas meat is predominantly proteins and fats, plants are composed primarily of 
carbohydrates. Compared to proteins in meat, which have a narrow temperature range 
between undercooked and shoe leather, carbohydrates are generally more forgiving, 
although cooking them too long will lead to mushy textures and color loss.
Cells in plants contain different compounds of culinary interest. As you’d expect, the 
different compounds have different properties. Here are five of the more common ones and 
how they react to heat:
• Cellulose  gives plant cell walls their primary structure. It’s completely indigestible 
to humans in its raw form and gelatinizes at such a high temperature, 608–626°F 
/ 320–330°C, that we can ignore it while discussing chemical reactions in cooking. 
(There’s evidence that pressure-cooking beans does break down some cellulose—
always exceptions to the rule!) 
• Lignin  is fibrous,  stringy stuff that shows up in secondary cell walls that appear in 
some plant cells, like those in wood. Like cellulose, lignin doesn’t change much in 
cooking. When it does show up, it gets stuck between your teeth and feels vaguely 
like chewing on wood (I’m looking at you, asparagus). The base of an asparagus stalk 
can develop a fair amount of lignin, which is why you can (and should!) snap it off.
• Hemicellulose , not the same thing as cellulose, is any of a large variety of 
polysaccharide compounds found in cell walls that hold the cellulose and lignin 
together. It’s easily broken down by acids, bases, and enzymes starting in the 
temperature range of 150–158°F / 66–70°C. In cooking tender plants, it’s the 
hemicelluloses that we’re targeting, being mindful to not break them down too 
much in order to avoid mushy textures. Unlike lignin and cellulose, hemicellulose 
is partly soluble in water. These three compounds make up the bulk of insoluble 
dietary fiber and help your body flush out the digestive tract.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 206• Starch  is a plant’s energy store and is what gives us energy when we eat plants. 
Starches as they natively exist are semicrystalline structures made up of two 
carbohydrate molecules, amylose and amylopectin. When heated and exposed to 
water, the semicrystalline structure gelatinizes —absorbs water, melts, and breaks 
down. Upon cooling, it continues to hold on to the absorbed water. Cooking 
converts that semicrystalline structure to a form that can be more easily digested; 
this is the basis for the theory that humans gained an advantage over other species 
when we first started cooking plants. There are a few temperature ranges involved 
in gelation—one range for amylopectin absorbing water and a higher one for the 
melting of the amylose structure, and then a potential third range for when the 
gel sets during cooling. These temperatures depend on the ratios and specific 
structures of amylose and amylopectin, as well as environmental factors like the 
acidity or alkalinity of the liquid they’re exposed to. In cooking, which one we care 
about depends on the way starch is being held onto by the plant’s cells. We care 
primarily about the higher temperature range where amylose dissolves, which 
typically happens at between 135° and 220°F / 57° and 105°C.
• Pectin  is cellular  glue that holds cell walls together, similar to how collagen holds 
muscle tissues together. Firmer fruits get their structure from pectin compounds; the 
skins and cores of apples are 10–20% pectin. These compounds begin to degrade 
when heated above 140°F / 60°C in acidic conditions (pH of 1.5–3). For pectin to 
gelatinize in jams and jellies, the recommended target temperature is 217°F / 103°C 
(easily reached with sugary liquids). Pectin isn’t a major component in most fruits and 
veggies in cooking, but for jam making it’s critical (see page 419).
How does all of this relate to cooking your veggies or fruits? You can determine what 
temperature you need to cook fruits and vegetables to based on their composition. The 
length of time at temperature, the amount of moisture in the tissue, and processing 
conditions will impact the exact temperatures needed, so treat these as guidelines: 
• Cook root vegetables  such as  potatoes above 175°F / 80°C. Cooking to higher 
temperatures will yield additional texture changes from water steaming up (fluffier 
baked potatoes), but slightly lower temperatures are fine, as you can see in potato 
gratin. Root vegetables have a higher percentage of amylopectin as compared 
to grains, which means the starches from them gelatinize more easily (typically 
at around 135–160°F / 57–70°C). When cooking, use a temperature range 
a bit above this for reasonable cooking times. Root vegetables contain 
enough moisture that you don’t need to worry about adding a liquid 
for the starch to absorb during gelation. Of course, if you’re working 
with a starch extracted from a plant—arrowroot or potato starch 
(sometimes called potato flour, but it’s actually starch)—it’ll need a 
liquid to absorb. (See page 408 for more.)
158°F / 70°C: Vegetable Starches Break Down 207• Cook grains like rice in near-boiling liquid. While the amylopectin degrades at 
lower temperatures, there’s more amylose in the structure of grains, and that 
doesn’t dissolve until around 200–220°F / 93–105°C. (If you’re familiar with sous 
vide cooking—see page 320—this is why you can sous-vide-cook root vegetables 
but not grains.) Most grains also don’t have enough water in them to gelatinize—
they’re seeds meant to last through the winter!—so you must use water when 
cooking them.
• Cook firm fruits  like apples long enough for the pectin in the cell walls to break 
down. The temperature depends upon how acidic the fruit is; somewhere between 
140 and 212°F / 60 and100°C is necessary. Use firmer fruits when poaching to 
avoid mushy results! Likewise, the secret to great fruit pies, according to some, is 
to mix two varieties or even species of fruits: one that’s firm and remains intact 
when heated combined with a second type that breaks down under cooking. Try 
combining a baking apple with a sauce apple, like Granny Smith with McIntosh, 
or mix types: baking pears like Bosc or Bartletts with sauce apples like McIntosh, 
Cortland, or Golden Delicious. (For more about pectin, see page 419.)
• Cook fruits and veggies that have high amounts of water at moderate temperatures: 
150–158°F / 66–70°C is sufficient to break down the hemicelluloses. Less sturdy 
leafy greens, like spinach, can be quickly wilted in a pan with a small amount of 
water or oil; even a quick toss in hot pasta that was just strained will do the trick. 
Sturdier greens, like Swiss chard and kale, should have the stalks and ribs removed 
and cooked first, as those parts of the plant have more structure and will need 
more of the hemicelluloses broken down to become pleasantly soft.
There are other compounds in fruits and vegetables that change when 
heated. One in particular is worth pointing out: chlorophyll. When 
green vegetables are cooked, their color shifts from vivid green to dull 
brown because of this compound changing. The membranes around 
the chloroplasts in the cells rupture under heat, causing the chlorophyll 
to react and change into a different molecule (pheophytin) that has a 
brownish color. This conversion is pH and temperature dependent, so 
more acidic environments speed it up while lower heat slows it down. Adding a pinch of 
baking soda to cooking water will inhibit the reaction. (Too much baking soda, though, 
causes other reactions—we’ll cover water chemistry in the next chapter.) Taking care to 
cook in hot but not boiling water and not overcooking is the traditional solution, and 
quickly transferring the cooked foods to very cold water will drop their temperatures and 
stop the reaction as well. Personally, I err on the side of undercooking string beans and 
asparagus—slightly undercooked and they’re still tasty, but overcooked? Yuck.Sautéing something like diced 
veggies and want to tenderize 
but not brown them? Toss in 
a splash of water to drop the 
temperature if it gets too high.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 208Quick Steamed Asparagus
Microwave ovens make quick work of cooking firmer 
greens and high-starch vegetables. Yams, potatoes, 
and other root vegetables all respond well to a few 
minutes of cooking in a microwave. You can steam 
vegetables in a microwave, too!
In a microwave-
safe container, place 
asparagus stalks  with 
the bottoms trimmed or 
snapped off, and add a 
thin layer of water  to the 
bottom. Put the lid on, 
but leave it partially open 
so that the steam can 
escape. Microwave for 2–4 minutes, checking for 
doneness partway through and adding more time 
as necessary.Notes
• This technique cooks the food using two 
methods: radiant heat (electromagnetic energy 
in the form of microwaves) and convection 
heat (from the steam generated by heating the 
water in the container). The steam circulates 
around the food, ensuring that any cold spots 
(areas missed by the microwave radiation) get 
hot enough to both cook the food and kill any 
surface bacteria that might be present.
• Try adding lemon juice, olive oil, or butter and 
sautéed crushed garlic to the asparagus.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
15 23
Low Medium High
Potato SaladCarrots
(1.43%)Corn
(5.7%)
Parsnips
(10.8%)Sweet Potatoes
(~12.6%)
Fingerling
(~16-18%)Red Potatoes
(~16–18%)White
Potatoes
(20.8%)
Potatoes are ~15–23% starch
Waxy
/f_irmer, smoother textureFloury
drier, mealier textureRusset
(~22–23%)
Yukon Gold
(20.8%)Asparagus
Spinach
Turnips
(Near 0%)
Soups French Fries
Roasted
PotatoesBaked
Potatoes
“Coarse”
Mashed
Potatoes“Creamy”
Mashed
PotatoesSTARCH PERCENTAGE
Root vegetables with higher starch levels require more time to cook, which is why roasting carrots is 
faster than roasting potatoes. Higher starch levels also lead to fluffier textures, as you can see in the 
photograph of two cooked potatoes, one low in starch (left) and one high in starch (right).158°F / 70°C: Vegetable Starches Break Down 209Sautéed Greens with Sesame Seeds
Greens like spinach and the more tender parts of 
hardier-leafed plants like kale cook quickly—there’s 
not much starch or fiber to break down. It’s all about 
the hemicelluloses!
In a sauté or nonstick pan preheated over medium 
heat, add:
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) sesame or olive oil 
(enough to coat the pan)
 1 tablespoon (8g) sesame seeds
Briefly toast the sesame seeds, then add:
 1 bunch spinach, Swiss chard, collard greens, 
or other leafy green; stems and thick veins 
removed, and sliced or torn into 1 " strips
Using tongs, quickly toss the greens to coat them 
with oil and seeds. Your pan should be reasonably 
hot so that the greens heat quickly, but not so hot 
that the oil burns. Continue tossing the greens 
while cooking so that they wilt evenly. Add salt 
and pepper  to taste.
Notes
• Depending upon your tastes, extend this recipe 
by adding one of these combinations:
5 cloves garlic, minced; juice from half a small 
lemon (about 1 teaspoon / 5 mL)
2 teaspoons (10 mL) balsamic vinegar, and 
possibly a pinch of sugar
1 teaspoon (5 mL) sherry vinegar; ¼ teaspoon 
(0.3g) crushed red pepper flakes; 1 15 ounce 
(425g) can cannellini beans; 3 cloves garlic, 
minced
¼ red onion, sliced thinly and sautéed; ½ 
apple sliced into bite-sized pieces and cooked; 
handful of chopped walnuts, toasted
• Try cooking some strips of bacon, removing 
the bacon, and then sautéing the greens in the 
rendered bacon fat, adding a teaspoon or so (~5 
mL) of balsamic vinegar. Dice the bacon and 
combine the two, and optionally add some blue 
(or other) cheese. Quantity of ingredients is really 
down to personal preference, so experiment!
• You can strip the stem and thicker veins from 
hardy greens such as Swiss chard by grabbing 
the stalk with one hand and the green leaf 
portion with the other hand, and pulling the 
stalk out.
When wilting greens, pull them off the heat before 
they’re done. Carryover heat will finish them.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 210
Poached Pears
Poached pears are easy, tasty, and quick. Much of 
our enjoyment of fruit comes from not just their 
flavor but also their texture. Consider an apple 
that’s lacking in crispness or a banana that’s been 
bruised and become mushy: without their customary 
texture, their appeal is lost. But this isn’t always the 
case. Poaching fruits such as pears causes similar 
changes in the structure of the fruit’s flesh, breaking 
down cell walls and affecting the bonds between 
neighboring cells to create a softer texture that’s 
infused with the flavor of the poaching liquid.
In a shallow saucepan or frying pan, place:
 2 medium (350g) pears, sliced lengthwise 
(longitudinally) into eighths or twelfths, 
and cores removed
 1 cup (240 mL) red wine; or 1 cup (240 mL) 
water, ½ cup (100g) sugar, and 1 teaspoon 
(5 mL) vanilla extract
 ¼ teaspoon (0.5g) ground pepper
Set the pan over low to medium heat, bringing 
the wine to a simmer and then poaching the pears 
for 5–10 minutes, until soft. Flip them halfway 
through, so that both sides of the slices spend 
some time facedown in the liquid. Remove the 
pears and discard the liquid. (You can also reduce 
the liquid down into a syrup.)Notes
• Fun chemistry fact: the boiling point of wine is 
lower than that of water. The exact temperature 
depends upon the sugar and alcohol levels, 
and as the wine simmers, the ratios shift. It'll 
start somewhere around 194°F / 90°C. It's 
doubtful that this will actually help you avoid 
overcooking the pears, though.
• Pears are one of those fruits that are underripe 
until you look away and then go rotten before 
you can look back. To encourage them to ripen, 
you can keep underripe pears in a paper bag so 
the plant tissue will be exposed to the ethylene 
gas they give off. I find I can get away with 
poaching pears that are a little more underripe 
than I might want to eat fresh, but your pears 
should be at least a little soft.
• Try serving this dish with caramel sauce 
(see page 228) and vanilla ice cream. Or try 
poaching other fruits, like fresh figs, and using 
other liquids. Figs poached in port or a honey/
water syrup with a small amount of lemon juice 
and lemon zest added after poaching are sweet 
and tasty.
• You don’t need to actually measure out the 
ingredients. As long as the pears have enough 
liquid to poach in, they’ll turn out great. Add 
freshly ground pepper to suit your tastes.
Never use preground pepper. Preground pepper 
quickly loses its complex aromatic flavors—well 
before it makes it into your hands—leaving it 
with a hot spicy kick but none of the subtlety of 
peppercorns.
158°F / 70°C: Vegetable Starches Break Down 211
Grilled Vegetables
Grilling is as American as apple pie, which is to 
say that while it’s part of our culture, its roots can 
be traced back to somewhere on the other side of 
the Atlantic Ocean. Grilling became an American 
tradition after World War II, when one of the owners 
of Weber Brothers Metal Works came up with the 
Weber Grill and ignited a backyard pastime.
Whether a propane or charcoal grill is better 
depends on your usage. Propane grills are easier 
to fire up if you just want to cook a quick burger 
or roast a few veggies. Charcoal grills, on the other 
hand, take a bit more work to get going but create a 
hotter cooking environment that can lead to better 
flavor development (more browning reactions). 
Regardless of what you go for, grilling is a great way 
to cook relatively thin items such as skirt steaks, 
burgers, or sliced vegetables. You can also slow-
cook larger items on a grill—I’ve enjoyed a few 
summertime afternoons drinking with friends while 
waiting for an entire hog to cook.
The second major difference between propane and 
charcoal grills is temperature. While propane itself 
burns at somewhere around 3,100°F / 1,700°C, by 
the time the heat dissipates around the grill it cools 
down to about 650°F / 340°C. Using a generous but 
reasonable amount of wood or charcoal generates a 
heat source with a much higher amount of thermal 
radiation. When I've metered wood and charcoal 
grills, I've gotten temperatures around 850°F / 450°C.
Grilled Summer Vegetables
Grilled veggies are a fantastic treat, and easy, too. 
While someone might yet find a way to make 
lettuce kabobs work, it’s easier to stick with the 
classics: choose sturdy vegetables low in water 
content (e.g., asparagus , squash , bell peppers , 
onions ).Slice your vegetables into 
large pieces and toss them 
into a bowl with a small 
quantity of olive oil  and 
a few pinches of salt. 
You can get fancy with 
marinades and sauces, 
but if you’re working with 
great produce, it seems 
like a shame to mask the 
flavor.
I generally grill my burgers or whatever meat I’m 
cooking first, and grill the vegetables while the 
meat rests. Grill the veggies for a few minutes, 
flipping them halfway through.
Grilled Sweet Potato Fries
Slice a sweet potato  into wedges. (Can’t find sweet 
potatoes? Look for yams. Americans use the word 
yam when they really mean Ipomoea batatas .)
Coat the outside of the sweet potatoes with olive 
oil and sprinkle them with coarse sea salt . Place 
them on the grill for 10 minutes, flip, and grill until 
tender, about another 10 minutes. Serve while hot.
Instead of the olive oil/salt coating, you can make 
a sweet coating by brushing the wedges with a 
mixture of roughly equal parts of butter and honey  
melted together. Or try sprinkling red pepper 
flakes  on the cooked wedges for a spicy version.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 212Rosemary Mashed Potatoes
This simple mashed potato recipe uses a microwave to cook the potatoes. Cooking a 
potato—or any other starchy root vegetable—requires gelatinizing the starches in the 
vegetable. For this to occur, two things need to happen: the starch granules need to get 
hot enough to literally melt, and they need to be exposed to water so that the granules 
absorb and swell up, which causes the texture of the tissue to change. Luckily, there’s 
enough water naturally present in potatoes for this to happen without any intervention 
needed. Try popping a sweet potato in your microwave for 5–8 minutes to see—use a 
fork to poke holes in it first!
Microwave until cooked, about 6 minutes:
 3–4 medium (600g) red potatoes
After cooking, cut the potatoes into small pieces that can be mashed with the back 
of a fork. Add and mash together:
 ½ cup (120 mL) sour cream
 1/3 cup (80 mL) milk
 4 teaspoons (20g) butter
 2 teaspoons (2g) finely chopped fresh rosemary leaves
 ¼ teaspoon (1g) salt (2 large pinches)
 ¼ teaspoon (0.5g) ground pepper
Notes
• For a tangy version, trying substituting plain yogurt for a portion of the milk.
• Different types of potatoes have different amounts of starch. Varieties with high 
starch content (e.g., russets, the brown ones with rough skin) turn out lighter 
and fluffier when baked and are generally better for baked or mashed 
potatoes. Lower-starch varieties (red or yellow potatoes, typically 
smaller and smooth-skinned) hold their shape better and 
are better suited for applications in which you want 
the potato to stay intact, such as potato salad. 
Of course, there’s still a lot of room for personal 
preference. When it comes to mashed potatoes, 
I prefer a coarse texture to the creamy, perfectly 
smooth potatoes so often shown in movie scenes 
associated with Thanksgiving, so I tend to use 
red potatoes.
310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions Become Noticeable 213310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions 
Become Noticeable
You can thank Maillard reactions for the nice golden-brown color and rich aromas of a 
Thanksgiving turkey, Fourth of July hamburger, and Sunday brunch toast. Coffee, cocoa, 
and roasted nuts all rely heavily on Maillard reaction byproducts for their flavors. If you’re 
still not able to conjure up the tastes brought about by Maillard reactions, take two slices of 
bread and toast them—one until just before it begins to turn brown, the second until it has 
a golden-brown color—and taste the difference.
The nutty, toasted, complex flavors generated by the Maillard reaction are created when 
amino acids in proteins and certain forms of sugars ( called reducing sugars ) combine 
and then break down. Named after the French chemist Louis Camille Maillard, who first 
described it in the 1910s, the Maillard reaction wasn’t well understood until the 1950s. 
During the reaction, compounds with free amino groups undergo a condensing reaction 
with reducing sugars. For example, meat has a reducing sugar, glucose (which is the 
primary sugar in muscle tissue), and also contains amino acids like lysine; with heat, these 
two compounds easily react with each other to form two new molecules.
The Maillard reaction is much more complicated than the other reactions we’ve talked 
about so far. One of the two new molecules generated at the start of the reaction is good 
ol’ H2O, but the other is a complicated, unstable molecule that quickly cascades through 
more reactions. That cascade of reactions eventually settles down into a few hundred 
compounds, and it’s these compounds that create the colors and flavors we want. 
To complicate matters, the molecule generated by the first condensing reaction depends 
on which  compounds start it all off. Any compound with a free amino group—amino 
acids, peptides, or proteins—can combine with any carbonyl compound (usually reducing 
sugars), so the initial starting molecule can take many, many forms. This is why the flavor 
byproducts from the Maillard reaction will be slightly different if you’re grilling a hamburger 
or baking bread; the ratios and types of the amino acids and reducing sugars (e.g., glucose, 
fructose, and lactose) present in the two foods are different. In yet another wrinkle, the 
byproducts break down into different compounds depending on the pH of the solution 
they’re in, shifting the flavors as well—it’s complex!
Now that I’ve made it sound really complicated (which it is), how can you control the 
Maillard reaction and its aromas and colors? Fortunately, understanding the Maillard 
reaction from a cook’s perspective is far easier than from that of a chemist. There are four 
ways you can control it, and understanding them requires a simple explanation of the 
chemistry rules around rates of reactions.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 214Obviously, a lack of either amino acids or reducing sugars prevents the reaction—both have 
to be present. There’s a standard chemistry rule: increasing the concentration of reactants 
increases the rate of reaction. This is why some breads call for milk as an ingredient, and 
why brushing an egg wash on top of pastry crusts adds color. Both proteins and lactose in 
milk and the amines in eggs will increase the quantity of reactants and thus generate more 
Maillard reaction–based flavors and colors. Without them, no dice. If you want more Maillard 
reactions to occur, the first way is to up the concentration of ingredients that lead to it.
Temperature is the basis of another chemistry rule related to reaction rates. The activation 
energy —the amount of energy needed for a chemical reaction to occur—is based on the 
kinetic energy of a molecule. With higher temperatures, there’s a much better chance that 
a molecule will bounce over the energy barrier necessary for the reaction to happen—but 
it’s still a probability. At lower temperatures, the reaction can still happen, but much more 
slowly. (Depending on the type of reaction, there can be a minimum threshold.) Assuming 
you have plenty of reactants around, upping the temperature of the environment cooking 
the food is the easiest way to speed up the reactions.
The pH of the environment, which affects so many things in food, also changes how the 
Maillard reaction happens. The initial step of the reaction depends on free amino groups, 
but those get tied up under more acidic conditions. This is why adding baking soda to 
onions speeds up their browning and why dipping pretzel dough in a lye solution makes 
them browner. There are very few alkalizing ingredients in the kitchen—egg whites, 
baking soda—but fortunately they’re mostly tasteless in small quantities. If you want to 
speed up browning on baked goods, try brushing an egg white wash on the surface of 
the dough; for foods like caramelized onions (a partial misnomer), add a pinch of baking 
soda to speed up the reaction.
The rate of Maillard reactions also depends on water: not too much or too little. The first 
step in the Maillard reaction generates a compound that’s easily reversible—it can go back 
and forth between two states (one of those ⇌ symbols in chemistry diagrams)—and in 
this case it’s the water molecule from that very first step that can be reabsorbed. When the 
water molecule is attached to the compound, it prevents the second step in the reaction 
Maillard reactions won’t readily happen on wet foods. If you’re about to sear meat, 
give it a quick pat with a paper towel to blot away surface moisture. Adding salt 
to a lean cut of meat right before cooking it pulls moisture toward the surface, 
which then takes longer to evaporate away when cooked. Either salt meats well in 
advance and then pat them dry before cooking, or add salt after cooking.
310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions Become Noticeable 215from happening. If the environment is too wet, the probability of the water molecule 
staying attached to the compound increases, blocking the reaction from continuing. But 
if the environment is too dry, then the reaction doesn’t begin either—the amino acid and 
sugar have to be mobile enough to connect. (The peak for reaction rate, with respect to 
water, is around 0.6 to 0.7 aw, if you’re familiar with water activity; more practically, about 
5% water.) It’s unlikely that changing the amount of water is the fix for any Maillard reaction 
rate problems you see, but it does explain the difference you can see in a baking test of 
wetted flour and dry flour cooked on the same sheet.
Accounting for all these variables, in most culinary applications the delicious flavors and 
pleasing colors from the Maillard reaction still require moderately hot temperatures. 
The 310°F / 154°C temperature given here serves as a good guideline for when Maillard 
reactions will begin to occur at a noticeable rate, whether you’re looking through your 
oven door or sautéing on the stovetop. For most cooking, 350°F / 180°C is a reasonable 
temperature, either in the skillet or the oven, to develop these flavors. Recipes that call for 
extended cooking times, like a roast kept in an oven for many hours, can be cooked at 325°F 
/ 160°C. It’s rare to see recipes call for lower oven temperatures than this because of how 
slowly the Maillard reaction will happen. Avoiding the Maillard reaction—it’s not a flavor 
you always want, such as in meringue cookies like macaroons (see page 294)—is simple 
enough: make sure one of water, pH, or temperature is out of the necessary range. Most 
often this means setting the oven to a very low temperature (say, 250°F / 120°C), which is 
exactly what’s done for meringue cookies.
We’ll cover the other major browning reaction, caramelization, in the next section, but 
it’s worth pointing out here that caramelization can deprive the Maillard reaction of the 
reducing sugars it needs. Searing meats in a too-hot pan will caramelize the glucose in 
the meat before it has a chance to react with amino acids, so when cooking meats, use a 
medium-high heat, but not too hot.
Maillard reactions do happen below my 310°F / 154°C guideline—just not very 
rapidly. Stocks simmering at 212°F / 100°C for many, many hours and with sufficient 
concentration of the reactants will begin to slowly turn brown and develop the 
Maillard reaction flavors. (Some chefs swear by pressure cookers for making stocks; 
higher temperature means faster Maillard reactions!) It’s even possible for Maillard 
reactions to happen at room temperature, given sufficient time and reagents: 
some aged cheeses like Manchego and Gouda have minor amounts of some of the 
Maillard byproducts. It happens elsewhere, too: self-tanning products happen to 
work via the same mechanism!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 216
Skillet-Fried Potatoes
The humble potato, like the egg, has a dark side (the skin) and a light side (the inside), 
and can bind things together (the starches). But why do potatoes turn brown when fried? 
There are plenty of amino acids and glucose, along with some amount of water, setting 
up the necessary environment for the Maillard reaction. Try serving these potatoes with 
roast chicken (on page 218) or as part of breakfast (in which case, try adding red bell 
peppers, yellow onions, and small chunks of bacon).
This recipe uses two types of heat: first boiling, to raise the temperature of the entire 
potato to quickly cook the starches, and then sautéing, to raise the temperature of the 
outside. You can microwave the potatoes instead of boiling them, but the saltwater does 
a nice job of seasoning them.
In a medium-sized pot, bring salted water to a boil and cook for 5 minutes:
 3–4 medium (700g) potatoes, diced into “forkable” bite-sized pieces
Drain the potatoes and transfer them to a heavy cast iron or enamel pan on a burner 
set to medium heat. Add:
 2–4 tablespoons (30–60 mL) olive oil or other fat (leftover chicken, duck, or 
bacon fat tastes great)
 1 teaspoon (6g) kosher salt
Stir the potatoes every few minutes, flipping them so that the facedown sides have 
enough time to brown but not burn. Once most of the potatoes are browned on most 
sides, about 20 minutes, turn the heat down to low, add more oil or fat if necessary, 
and add:
 2 teaspoons (4g) paprika
 2 teaspoons (2g) dried oregano
 1 teaspoon (3g) turmeric powder
Par-cooking —partially cooking a food to speed up later cooking—isn’t just about 
making more dirty dishes. Par-cooking can be done ahead of time so that an ingredient 
cooks faster when you’re ready to finish it, or it can be done as a first step before you 
switch cooking methods. In this case, par-cooking speeds things up because the first 
cooking step uses hot water, which heats the potatoes faster. You can skip this step and 
just cook the potatoes in the pan, but they will take an extra 30 minutes or so to cook.
310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions Become Noticeable 217
Great Garlic Bread
Garlic with butter on toasted bread: what could 
be better to a garlic lover? Garlic has an amazing 
culinary history (search online for “four thieves 
vinegar”) and many known health benefits (from 
allicin—see the note on garlic presses).
Even garlic and butter can’t save subpar bread, though. 
Supermarket bread—the fresh-baked loaves in a chain 
grocery store—is never as good as a true bakery’s 
bread. If you can, start out with amazing bread. 
Mince—do not use a garlic press!— lots of garlic . Six 
cloves (4 tablespoons / 60g), or about half a garlic 
bulb, isn’t unreasonable; true garlic lovers may want 
more. Transfer the garlic to a small 
bowl and add:
 4 tablespoons (60g) softened or 
melted butter
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil
 ½ teaspoon (2g) sea salt or 
garlic salt (omit if using 
salted butter)
 2–4 tablespoons (10–20g) chopped 
fresh parsley
 1–2 spoonfuls of red pepper flakes 
(optional)
Mix ingredients to combine.
Slice a loaf of Italian or French 
bread  in half, making a top piece 
and a bottom piece. Place the bread, 
both sides face up, on a baking sheet 
lined with aluminum foil. Brush or 
spoon the garlic mixture onto the 
bread. Bake the bread in a preheated 
oven at 350°F / 180°C for 8–10 
minutes (longer if you like crispier 
garlic bread), and then broil until 
the top is golden-brown.Notes
• Try adding Parmesan or mozzarella cheese on 
top. Or use different herbs like dried oregano 
instead of parsley, which is traditionally used 
due to the misguided belief that it’ll cut down 
on garlic body odors. You can also slice the 
bread or even cube it before baking.
• Garlic begins to brown up and toast at around 
260–280°F / 125–140°C. Too brown, and it’ll 
taste burnt. Pay attention to the garlic bits 
while broiling the bread.
When should you mince garlic instead 
of using a garlic press?
I recommend garlic presses for convenience. Between a quick 
squirt of garlic or no garlic, I’ll take the quick squirt. But some 
abhor the idea of using a garlic press because it changes the 
flavor of garlic —but only in some cases .
The flavor issue is caused by a heat-liable enzyme (one that 
breaks down when heated) in garlic, alliinase . When garlic 
is crushed, alliinase comes into contact with a compound, 
alliin , and converts it into another compound, allicin . Allicin 
isn’t so great-smelling, which isn’t surprising for a sulfur-based 
compound. At 6 seconds, half of the alliin is already converted to 
allicin (alliinase is the most abundant protein in garlic, so the rate 
of reaction is super fast). Slicing or mincing garlic doesn’t mix the 
alliin with the alliinase, and once the garlic’s heated, the alliinase 
can’t react, so no allicin. The only way to avoid that reaction with 
a garlic press is to squirt the garlic straight into something like 
hot oil. If you’re following a recipe that doesn’t allow for that, slice 
or mince the garlic instead to avoid the off-tastes.
There’s more to the story, though. While allicin doesn’t smell so 
great, it’s the only compound in garlic known to have health 
benefits. Sorry, folks, but without that off-odor of either raw garlic 
or pressed garlic left to sit around, there are no known health 
benefits!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 218
Butterflied Roast Chicken
You might be the type who prefers to let the butcher do the butchering, but it’s worth learning how to 
butterfly a chicken  even if you’re squeamish about raw meat. Butterflying a chicken is called spatchcocking 
in Great Britain and  crapaudine by the French—at least for small poultry that’s grilled. A butterflied 
chicken is much easier to cook than a whole bird! It’s economical, too, yielding four to six meals for not 
much money and a few minutes of surgery.
A chicken that’s been cleaned and gutted is topologically a cylinder. It’s basically a big, round piece of skin 
and fat (outer layer), meat (middle layer), and bone (inner layer). Cooking a whole bird intact is harder 
than cooking a butterflied bird, because invariably that cylinder is going to get heated from different 
directions at different rates—that is, unless you have a rotisserie grill, which heats the outside uniformly, 
cooks it uniformly, and makes it uniformly yummy.
By snipping the spine out of the chicken, you transform that cylinder into a plane of chicken—skin on top, 
meat in the middle, bone on the bottom. And the topology of such a surface is well suited to heat coming 
from a single direction (i.e., broiling or grilling), meaning it’s  much easier to cook to develop a nice, brown, 
crispy skin .
1. Prepare your working space. I do this in a 
roasting pan, because it’s going to get dirty 
anyway. Unwrap the chicken, removing the 
organ meats (discard them or save them for 
something else), and fetch a pair of heavy-
duty kitchen scissors. The chicken should be 
dry; if it’s not, pat it dry with paper towels.2. Flip the bird around so that the neck flap is 
facing you. With the scissors, cut down to the 
right side of the spine (or left side, if you’re 
left-handed). You shouldn’t have to apply 
that much force. Make sure you’re not cutting 
the spine itself, just to the side of it.
3. Once you’ve made the first cut, flip the bird 
around again—it’s easier to cut on the outer 
side of the spine—and cut down the second 
side.
4. Once the spine is removed (trash it, or save it 
in the freezer for making stock), flip the bird 
over, skin side up, and using both hands—
left hand on left breast, right hand on right 
breast—press down to break the sternum so 
that the chicken lies flat. You can remove the 
keel bone as well, but it’s not necessary. (The 
keel bone is what connects the two halves of 
the butterflied chicken together.)
1
3
42310°F / 154°C: Maillard Reactions Become Noticeable 219
Now that you have a butterflied chicken, cooking 
it is straightforward. Because the skin is on one 
side and the bone on the other, you can use two 
different heat sources to cook the two sides to 
their correct level of doneness. That is, you can 
effectively cook the skin side until it’s brown from 
Maillard reactions, and then flip the bird over and 
finish cooking it until a probe thermometer or 
manual inspection indicates that it is done.
Rub the outside of the butterflied chicken with 
olive oil  and sprinkle it with salt. (The oil will 
prevent the skin from drying out while cooking.) 
Place the bird on top of a wire roasting tray in a 
roasting pan, skin side up. (The wire tray raises 
the bird up off the pan so that it doesn’t stew in 
the drippings that come out.) Tuck the wings up, 
over and under the breasts, so that they’re not 
exposed to the broiler.Broil the chicken at medium heat for about 10 
minutes, or until the skin develops a nice level 
of brownness. Keep a good 6" / 15 cm between 
the bird and the heating element of your oven. If 
your broiler is particularly strong and parts of the 
chicken begin to burn, you can create a “mini-
heat shield” with aluminum foil.
Once the skin side has browned, flip the bird 
over (I use folded-over paper towels instead of 
tongs to avoid tearing the skin). Switch the oven 
to bake mode, at around 350°F / 177°C. Ideally, 
use a probe thermometer set to beep at 160°F / 
71°C (carryover will take the chicken up to 165°F 
/ 74°C). If you don’t have a probe thermometer, 
check for doneness after around 25 minutes by 
cutting off one leg and checking that the juices 
run clear and the flesh looks cooked. If it’s not 
done, set the two halves back together and return 
it to the oven, checking periodically.
Notes
• Some people like to brine their chickens. It adds salt into the meat, changing the flavor. Try brining 
the chicken in a salt solution for an hour or so (½ cup / 150g salt, 2 quarts/ 2 liters cold tap water—
but really, you can just dump salt in water until it’s saturated). If you’re going to brine the chicken for 
longer, which will result in a saltier chicken, store it in the fridge to keep it below 40°F / 4°C while it 
brines.
• Alton Brown’s TV show Good Eats  has an episode on butterflying a chicken. Brown creates a garlic/
pepper/lemon zest paste to stuff under the skin, and roasts the chicken above a bed of cellar veggies 
(carrots, beets, potatoes). It’s a great recipe, as the paste brings a lot of flavor to the bird and the 
cellar veggies pick up the chicken drippings. For another variation, try putting chopped 
garlic and aromatic herbs such as rosemary under the skin.
• For further inspiration, look at Julia Child et al.’s Mastering the Art of 
French Cooking, Volume 2  (Knopf, 1970), which has an excellent 
description of Volaille Demi-Désossée —“half-boned chicken.” Child 
removes the breastbone (leaving the spine intact), stuffs the bird 
(foie gras, truffles, chicken livers, and rice), sews it back up, and 
roasts it. Looking at historical recipes—both recent and older—is a 
great way to understand food better.
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 220Seared Scallops
Scallops are one of those surprisingly easy but 
often-overlooked items. Look for scallops that are 
dry packed—not soaked in liquid—to avoid them 
weeping water while cooking. High-quality frozen 
ones work fine (make sure the ingredient list says 
only “scallops” to ensure they’re dry packed too); 
defrost them overnight in the fridge.
Prepare the scallops  for cooking by patting them 
dry with a paper towel and placing them on a 
plate or cutting board. If your scallops still have 
their bases attached, peel them off using your 
fingers and save them for some other purpose.
Not sure what to do with those little side muscles 
attached to the main body of the scallop (scallop 
bases)? Pan-fry them after you cook the scallop 
bodies and nibble on them when no one is looking.
Place a frying pan over medium-high heat. Once 
the pan is hot, melt about 1 tablespoon / 15g of butter —enough to create a thick coating—in 
the pan. Using a pair of tongs, place the scallops, 
flat side down, into the butter. They should sizzle 
when they hit the pan; if they don’t, turn the 
heat up.
Let them sear until the bottoms begin to turn 
golden brown, about 2 minutes. Don’t poke or prod 
the scallops while they’re cooking; otherwise, 
you’ll interfere with the heat transfer between 
the butter and scallop flesh. Once the first side is 
done cooking (you can use the tongs to pick one 
up and inspect its cooked side), flip the scallops 
to cook on the second flat side, again waiting 
until they’re golden brown, about 2 minutes. 
When you flip them, place the scallops on areas 
of the pan that didn’t have scallops on them 
before. These areas will be hotter and have more 
butter; you can take advantage of this to cook the 
scallops more readily.
Once they’re cooked, transfer the scallops to a 
clean plate for serving.
Notes
• Try serving these scallops on top of a small simple salad—
say, some arugula/rocket tossed with a light balsamic 
vinegar dressing and some diced shallots and radishes.
• If you’re not sure if the scallops are done, transfer one to a 
cutting board and cut it in half. You can hide the fact that 
you checked for doneness by slicing all of the pieces in half 
and serving them this way. This lets you check that they’re 
all done as well.
• You can dredge the uncooked scallops in breadcrumbs or 
another light, starchy coating. If you have wasabi peas, 
use either a mortar and pestle or a blender to grind and 
transfer them to a plate for dredging the scallops.
Try crushing wasabi-coated peas and dredging 
the scallops in them before searing.356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 221356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 
334ºF / 168ºC Extra-hard crack—very slight brown color, but no /f_lavor change
350ºF / 177ºC Common oven temperature for baked goods with only minor browning
356ºF / 180ºC Light caramel—light amber to golden brown, /f_lavor begins to change
367ºF / 186ºC Pure sucrose melts
370ºF / 188ºC Medium caramel—chestnut brown
375ºF / 190ºC Common oven temperature for baked goods with visible browning
300ºF 400ºF 500ºF
Temperatures related to sucrose and baking.
Caramel sauce:  delicious, calorie-laden, and made by the simple act of heating sugar. Unlike 
the Maillard reaction, which is named for the chemist who first described the reaction, 
caramelization is named for the end result. The word caramelization  comes from the 
17th-century French for “burnt sugar, ” originally Late Latin for “cane” ( canna  or calamus ) and 
“honey” ( mel)—a good visual description of melted, browned sugar!
There are a couple of different ways to burn sugar (besides getting distracted while 
cooking). The simplest is with dry heat: sugar in a dry pan will thermally decompose —
literally, breaking down under heat. In the case of sucrose, the molecular structure 
will break apart and go through a series of reactions that create over 4,000 different 
compounds. Some of those compounds are brown (the best-looking tasteless 
polymerization reactions you’ve ever seen!), while others smell wonderful (you can thank 
fragmentation reactions for these, as well as blaming them for some of the bitter tastes).
Heating sugar with water, as is done in wet-method caramel recipes, changes things 
slightly. When wet, sucrose will hydrolyze —a reaction that involves taking in water (hence 
“hydro”). In the case of sucrose, it hydrolyzes into glucose and fructose, called sucrose 
inversion . With heat, those molecules then rearrange their structure into another form that 
kicks off a water molecule and begins a chemical reaction journey. The hydrolysis of sucrose 
is a simple reaction. Even if you’re not up on your high school chemistry, you can see that 
the count of atoms on one side of the equation lines up with the count on the other side:
  C12H22O11 + H2O  = C6H12O6 + C6H12O6
  Sucrose  + Water  = Glucose  + Fructose
This is how pastry chefs make invert sugar syrup! The concentration of sugar, temperature, 
and pH all speed up the reaction, so if you’ve ever seen a caramel recipe call for cream of 
tartar, that speeds up the conversion to glucose and fructose. And, because fructose has a 
lower caramelization temperature (more on that in a minute), a wet caramel sauce should, 
in theory, caramelize at lower temperatures and have a different chemical makeup than a 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 222dry one. The full chemistry of caramelization is still poorly understood—while researchers 
have been able to describe some of the reactions, the full pathway taken on the chemical 
reaction journey still has its mysteries.
Describing the temperatures for caramelization is also tricky because of the closeness 
between melting points and decomposition temperature ranges. Melting, a physical 
change, is not the same thing as decomposition, a chemical change. By definition, sucrose 
is a pure substance: it has a specific molecular structure. Pure sucrose melts at 367°F / 
186°C, a state change where it goes from solid to liquid. Glucose, likewise, has a melting 
point of 294°F / 146°C; fructose comes in at a relatively cool 217°F / 103°C.
But these sugars begin to thermally decompose at temperatures lower than their melting 
points. The decomposition happens at a very, very slow rate at modest temperatures and 
begins to pick up to a noticeable rate as temperatures increase. For sucrose, that inflection 
point is somewhere around 338°F / 170°C—a good 30°F / 16°C below its melting point. 
If enough thermal decomposition happens before sucrose is heated to its melting point, 
granules of sugar will “apparently melt, ” to use the phrase coined by the researchers. 
Heating a granule of table sugar—a bunch of sucrose molecules (with some impurities!) 
packed into a crystalline structure—to just below its melting point will cause some of the 
How Do Scientists Tell When Something Is Melting?
One common technique used is differential 
scanning  calorimetry  (DSC). In DSC, scientists 
closely monitor the temperature of a sample in 
a closed environment while heating it, either 
recording the precise amount of energy needed 
to raise the temperature at a constant rate, or 
recording the precise change in temperature while 
adding energy at a constant rate. DSC picks up 
phase changes (e.g., solid to liquid) and chemical 
changes (like protein denaturation or thermal 
decomposition) because these changes require 
heat energy but don’t raise the temperature. 
Take a look at the DSC graph. This graph shows 
how much energy was needed to heat a room-
temperature sample to its melting point, raising 
the temperature at a constant rate over the 
course of about a minute. The graph noticeably 
ramps up around 338°F / 170°C and again around 
356°F / 180°C, which is why caramelization 
is so often described as occurring at either of those temperatures. But notice that the line 
does slope up well before these temperatures! 
Heating sucrose at a slower rate will shift these 
two inflection points to lower temperatures; if it’s 
heated slowly enough, decomposition and melting 
will show up in two distinct peaks. Cooking sugar 
“low and slow” will still thermally decompose it; 
it’ll just take longer. 
392°F
200°C437°F
225°C257°F
125°C212°F
100°C302°F
150°C347°F
175°C50 mW/g
0 mW/g100 mW/g
DSC graph for sucrose.356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 223sucrose molecules to convert to other compounds via thermal decomposition. The granule 
of sugar is no longer a pure substance! This is why a granule of sugar “apparently” melts 
below its true melting point when heated slowly. Sugar, like everything else that makes up 
our food, is fascinating and complicated stuff.
As for flavor, caramelization is like the  Maillard reaction in that it generates thousands of 
compounds, and these new compounds result in both browning and enjoyable aromas. 
For some foods, these aromas, as wonderful as they might be, can overpower or interfere 
with the flavors brought by the ingredients. For this reason, some baked goods are cooked 
at 350°F / 177°C or even 325°F / 163°C so that they don’t see much caramelization, while 
other foods are cooked at 375°F / 191°C or higher to facilitate it. When cooking, ask yourself 
if what you are cooking is something that you want to have caramelized aromas, and if so, 
set your oven to at least 375°F / 191°C or extend the baking times out long enough for the 
reaction to occur. If you’re finding that your food isn’t coming out browned, it’s possible 
that your oven is running too cold, so adjust the temperature upward.
Does starch caramelize?
Not directly. Starch is a complex carbohydrate; caramelization is the decomposition of simple 
carbohydrates, a.k.a. sugars. Given time under heat, starch will break down into dextrin, which is a 
bunch of glucose molecules linked together. Dextrins are commonly used as adhesives—the stuff 
you lick on the back of an envelope—and are made by heating starch for many hours. Additional 
processing converts them to things like maltodextrin (see page 416), but almost all of the browning 
you see in cooked food comes from sugars (caramelization) and reducing sugars with amino acids 
(Maillard reactions). Starch can be broken down into glucose, which will caramelize, either via 
enzymatic reactions or hydrolysis, so there are exceptions. To see the difference, try baking a pinch of 
dry cornstarch, sugar, and flour alongside slightly wetted versions of each (to see how water changes 
things) on a  lined cookie sheet at 375°F / 190°C for 10 minutes and investigating the results.
Temperatures of common baked goods, divided into those below and above the temperature at which 
sucrose begins to visibly brown.
Foods baked at 325–350°F / 163–177°C Foods baked at 375°F / 191°C and higher
Brownies Breads
Sugar cookies
Chocolate chip cookies (chewy 10–12 minute cookies; 
see page 283)Peanut butter cookies
Sugary breads: banana bread, pumpkin bread, zuc -
chini breadChocolate chip cookies (crispy 12–15 minute cookies; 
higher temperature means more evaporated water)
Cakes: carrot cake, chocolate cake Flour and corn breads
Muffins
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 224
Sugar Cookies, Butter Cookies, and 
Cinnamon Snickerdoodles
What’s the difference between a sugar cookie , butter cookie, and snickerdoodle? By 
weight, they’re all ~25% sugar, ~25% butter, ~44% flour, ~5% egg, and 1% other. It’s 
that “1% other” that makes all the difference. Butter cookies don’t have any rising 
agent, while both sugar cookies and snickerdoodles do. Snickerdoodles also have cream of 
tartar, giving them a tangy flavor and chewier texture. 
Cookies are a perfect example of both caramelization and Maillard browning reactions. 
Some people like their cookies barely browned; others like them nicely toasted up. 
Personally, I like sugar cookies tender and barely browned and butter cookies golden 
medium-brown.
In a small bowl, mix 2½ cups (350g) flour  and 1 teaspoon (6g) salt . Optionally 
add ½ teaspoon (2.5g) baking powder , skipping it if you’re making butter cookies. 
If you’re making snickerdoodles, also add 2 teaspoons (6g) cream of tartar . Use a 
whisk or fork to thoroughly mix the ingredients together.
In a large bowl, cream together 1 cup (230g) unsalted butter (room temperature) 
with 1 cup (200g) sugar . Add 1 large (50g) egg  and 1 teaspoon (5 mL) vanilla 
extract  and mix together. Optionally add flavorings, such as ¼ teaspoon (1 mL) 
almond extract  or 1 teaspoon (2g) lemon zest .
Stir half of the dry ingredients into the large bowl, mixing to combine. Repeat with 
the rest of the dry ingredients. If you have time, chill the dough for several hours at 
this point—traditionally these doughs are firmed up so that they can be rolled out 
and cut into shapes. 
If you like, prepare sugar to roll the dough balls in by pouring ¼ cup (50g) sugar  
onto a small plate. For snickerdoodles, add 1 tablespoon (8g) cinnamon  and mix it 
with the sugar. For flavored sugar cookies, try adding 2 tablespoons (12g) fennel 
seeds  to the sugar. For crinkle cookies, set out a second plate with ¼ cup (30g) 
powdered sugar .
To bake, scoop the dough into ½ ounce / 15g portions, making small balls about 1" / 
2.5 cm in diameter, and roll them in the sugar. (You can also roll the dough out and 
use cookie cutters—see page 340 for how to make your own.) Place the dough balls 
on a parchment-lined cookie sheet and flatten them, using either a fork for a lined 
surface or your palm for a flatter cookie. For tender, lighter cookies, bake at 325°F / 
165°C for 10–12 minutes; for crispier, firmer cookies, bake at 375°F / 190°C for 10–12 
minutes. If you like your cookies crispy brown throughout, try baking them at 325°F 
/ 165°C for 25–30 minutes.356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 225
Notes
• If sugar cookies or butter cookies aren’t your thing, try adding flavoring to the 
mix, rolling the dough in sugar and chopped nuts, or dipping the baked cookies in 
chocolate. For chocolate-flavored cookies, replace ½ cup (70g) flour with ½ cup 
(40g) Dutched cocoa powder. For something festive, roll the dough balls in colored 
sugar. (To make your own colored sugar, mix a few drops of food coloring with ¼ 
cup (50g) sugar in a plastic bag, seal it, and shake well.) Or get fancy and make 
two batches of dough—one vanilla and one chocolate, or two batches dyed different 
colors—and then roll the two doughs together to form a sliceable log with one 
dough in the center and the other wrapping it.
• Modern-day snickerdoodles are essentially chewy sugar cookies dusted in cinnamon, 
but that wasn’t always the case. The earliest recipe I know of skips the flour, which 
was presumably useful for the 19th-century cook who found herself (rarely himself) 
out of it yet wanting to cook a treat. If you like your snickerdoodles old-fashioned-
style, see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/snickerdoodles/  and use small eggs 
(modern-day eggs are larger).
• Crinkle cookies, often made with darker doughs that include cocoa powder or 
molasses, get their crackled appearance from being rolled in sugar. As the cookie 
expands, the sugar absorbs moisture, causing the surface to dry out and set before 
the cookie has fully expanded. For better results, roll your dough balls twice: first in 
granulated sugar, then in powdered sugar.
325°F / 160°C          350°F / 180°C          375°F / 190°C          400°F / 200°C
Cookies baked at 350°F / 180°C and lower remain a lighter color because sucrose won’t caramelize at 
these temperatures much when baked at standard baking times. Try making two batches of cookies, 
one with fructose sugar instead of table sugar, to see what a difference caramelization makes!
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 226
Here’s an easy experiment to do, and the data is 
delicious! Everyone has their own idea of what 
makes a perfect cookie, and texture is a big part 
of perfection, at least for cookies. If you like your 
cookies gooey, they need to be baked so that some 
of the egg proteins remain unset. If you like your 
cookies crispy, they need to be baked so that most 
of the moisture in the dough evaporates away. But 
what if you want a cookie that’s crispy around the 
edges and gooey in the middle? It’s possible—with 
the right combination of time and temperature.
Almost all reactions in cooking are based on 
temperature. Different reactions occur at different 
temperatures, but it’s not so simple as saying, 
“this reaction happens at x degrees.” Reactions 
speed up with higher temperature, and many of 
the temperature ranges for different reactions 
overlap. For example, moisture in cookie dough 
will evaporate at the same time as the dough’s egg 
proteins are setting.
Finding your perfect cookie requires playing 
around to figure out what exact time and 
temperature combination gives you the properties 
you like best. Try baking cookie dough at 
different times and temperatures to see how the 
different reactions change.First, grab these supplies:
• One batch of light-colored cookie dough (see 
page 224 for sugar cookie dough, or use store-
bought dough)
• Stuff to bake the cookies: spoon, spatula, 
parchment paper, a cookie sheet, a timer, and 
an oven
• Two sheets of letter or A4 paper and 
something to write with
325°F
163°C400°F
204°C30
25
20
15
10
5
350°F
177°C375°F
191°C
300°F
149°C275°F
135°C
minLab: Tasty Rates of Reactions—Find Your Perfect Cookie356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 227
Here’s what to do:
1. Choose what time and temperature values and 
intervals you want to experiment with. For 
example, you could choose to do a range of 
temperatures from 300°F / 150°C to 375°F / 
190°C in 25°F / 12.5°C intervals and a time 
range of 6 minutes to 21 minutes in 3-minute 
intervals.
2. Create a grid on your two sheets of paper, 
labeling the x-axis with each of your 
temperatures and the y-axis with each of your 
times. Leave about 2.5" / 6 cm between each 
label.
3. Bake!
a) Set your oven to the lowest temperature 
you choose.
b) Place small scoops of dough, about ½ 
ounce / 15g each, onto a lined baking 
sheet. If you’re baking 6 different times 
for each temperature, then put 6 dough 
balls onto the sheet.c) Set your timer to the beginning of the 
time range (e.g., 6 minutes) and begin 
baking the cookies. 
d) When the timer goes off, remove one 
cookie and set it onto the grid at the 
correct spot. 
e) Set the timer for the interval (e.g., 3 
minutes), and remove another cookie when 
the time’s up, repeating the process until 
all the cookies for the current temperature 
are baked.
f) When you’re done with one temperature 
range, increase the oven to the next 
range and wait 10 minutes or so for the 
oven to adjust. (If you’re doing this in a 
group, you can split up who does each 
temperature, but make sure to calibrate 
your ovens and use cookie sheets of the 
same material.)
Investigation time!
There are two different browning reactions that happen in baking: the Maillard reaction and 
caramelization. What do you notice about how long cookies take to bake to medium-brown at one 
temperature versus another temperature? Do you think you could estimate how much faster a cookie 
bakes with a 25°F / 12.5°C increase in temperature?
Take a look at the lowest-temperature, longest-cooked cookie and compare it to the highest-
temperature, shortest-cooked cookie. What do you notice about the difference between the color of the 
edges and the centers? What would cause this?
What do you think would happen if you changed the ingredients in the dough, like decreasing the 
amount of sugar, or adding an acid like lemon juice?Lab: Tasty Rates of Reactions—Find Your Perfect Cookie
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 228
Wet and Dry Caramel Sauces
Caramel sauce is one of  those components that seems 
complicated and mysterious until you make it, at which 
point you’re left wondering, “Really, that’s it?” Next time 
you’re eating a bowl of ice cream, serving poached pears, 
or looking for a topping for brownies or cheesecake, try 
making your own.
There are two methods for making caramel sauce: wet 
and dry.
Wet method:  This is the traditional method for making 
caramel sauce, and the only way to make lighter-colored 
caramel sauces. Adding corn syrup to the sauce prevents 
sucrose molecules from crystallizing into a big mess. 
If you don’t have corn syrup, take care to not overstir; 
stirring speeds up crystal formation.
Microwave version
Microwaves make quick work of caramel sauce—the microwave rapidly heats the 
water, which then heats the sugar. In a clear microwave-safe bowl, heat 1 cup 
(200g) granulated sugar  and ¼ cup (60 mL)  water for 1–3 minutes, paying 
attention to the color of the sugar. It will bubble and remain clear for a while 
and then suddenly begin to turn brown—stop the microwave then! You can let it 
go for a few seconds longer to reach a medium brown. Remove the mixture from 
the microwave and very slowly add ½–1 cup (120–240 mL) heavy cream  (use 
more cream for a runnier sauce),  stirring or whisking to combine as you pour.
Stovetop version
In a saucepan, heat 1 cup (200g) granulated sugar  and ¼ cup (60 mL)  water. 
Optionally add 1 tablespoon (15 mL) corn syrup . Allow the mixture to simmer 
for 5–10 minutes, during which time you should see most of the water bubble out 
and notice the sound of the bubbling change. Using a digital thermometer, heat 
the sugar syrup to about 350–360°F / 175–180°C, or look for it to begin to turn 
an amber color. You can cook it to higher temperatures for richer flavors, but 
for that, the dry method is easier. Remove the mixture from the heat and very 
slowly add ½–1 cup (120–240 mL) heavy cream  (use more cream for a runnier 
sauce),  stirring or whisking to combine as you pour.
Caramel sauce being made 
with the dry method.356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 229
Dry method:  If you are making a medium-brown caramel sauce—above the melting 
point of sucrose—you can skip the candy thermometer, water, and corn syrup and take 
a shortcut by just melting the sugar by itself. Make sure the pan is dry—if there’s much 
water in it, it’ll cause the sugar to crystallize when it evaporates and the sugar won’t 
melt as well.
In a dry skillet or large pan over medium-high heat, heat 1 cup (200g) granulated 
sugar .
Keep an eye on the sugar until it begins to melt, at which point turn your burner 
down to low heat. Once the outer portions have melted and begun to turn brown, use 
a wooden spoon to stir the unmelted and melted portions together to distribute the 
heat more evenly and to avoid burning the hotter portions.
Once all the sugar is melted, remove it from the heat and very slowly add ½–1 
cup (120–240 mL) heavy cream  (use more cream for a runnier sauce),  stirring or 
whisking to combine as you pour.
Notes
• Caramel sauce is a calorie bomb: 1,589 calories between the cup of heavy cream and 
cup of sugar. It’s good, though!
• Try adding a pinch of salt, or a dash of vanilla extract or lemon juice, to the 
resulting caramel sauce. A tablespoon or two of bourbon is delicious too!
• Different temperature points in the decomposition range yield different flavor 
compounds. For a more complex flavor, try making two batches of caramel sauce, 
one in which the sugar has just barely melted and a second where the sauce is 
allowed to brown a bit more. The two batches will have distinctly different flavors; 
mixing them together (once cooled) will result in a fuller, more complex flavor.
• Sucrose has a high latent heat—that is, the sugar molecules are able to move 
and wiggle in many different directions. Because of this, sucrose gives off a large 
amount of energy when going through the phase transition from liquid to a solid, 
so it will burn you much, much worse than many other things in the kitchen at 
the same temperature range. There’s a reason pastry chefs call this stuff “liquid 
Napalm.” 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 230Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red Onions
Roasting vegetables such as carrots creates a 
pleasant nutty, toasted flavor from both the Maillard 
reaction and caramelization. Adding a sugar—
honey, brown sugar, maple syrup—intensifies the 
flavors and colors.
Prepare about 2 pounds (1kg) of carrots  by 
peeling them—the skins can be extremely bitter, 
and peeling improves their taste—and cutting 
any tops off. If some carrots are much thicker 
than others, cut those in half. Slice 1 or 2 small 
(70–140g) red onions  into wedges, removing any 
skin and roots.
Pick an oven-safe pan large enough to hold the 
carrots one or two layers deep and coat it with a 
thin layer of olive or sesame oil . Add 1 teaspoon (3g) sea salt  and any spices you like— ground 
cumin, cinnamon, coriander,  and a hint of 
cayenne pepper  are delicious. Add 2 tablespoons 
(25g) brown sugar or maple syrup  and a 
tablespoon (15 mL) of lemon or orange juice  
and mix. Transfer the carrots and onions to the 
pan, rolling them around to coat all sides.
Preheat the oven to 400–425°F / 200–220°C. 
Cook the carrots for 20–30 minutes, turning them 
occasionally, and remove them when they’re 
brown and tender.
Note
• Try stirring in chopped fresh sage or other 
aromatic herbs after cooking.What’s the Difference Between Beet Sugar and Cane Sugar?
From a molecular perspective, sucrose is sucrose: 
it has a defined molecular structure and the 
sucrose molecules in your container of sugar are 
identical to the sucrose in my container. But the 
table sugar we use is only mostly  pure sucrose. 
There’s somewhere around 0.05% to 0.10% of 
trace impurities in highly refined white sugar, 
and those impurities can vary based on growing 
conditions and the source plants. There are 
also potential differences in the quality of the 
crystalline structure. A grain of sugar is a small 
crystal of sucrose molecules, and just like the 
Hope Diamond, the crystalline structure isn’t 
100% pure. One research paper from 2004 ran DSC 
analysis on two different samples of sucrose and 
found noticeable differences in their melting and 
decomposition rates due to these differences.About half of the sugar in the United States comes 
from the sugar cane plant, while the other half 
comes from sugar beets. Sugar labels don’t have 
to identify which plant the sugar comes from, 
and sugar manufacturers claim that trained 
sensory panels can’t tell the difference. Bakers 
and online forums disagree, finding sugar from 
the sugar cane plant strongly preferable to beet 
sugar. A 2014 paper from the University of Illinois 
backs them up: aroma and flavor was noticeably 
different, with 62 panelists detecting differences 
between the two types of sugar when used in 
pavlova and simple syrup. They didn’t detect 
differences, though, between the two types 
when they were used in sugar cookies, pudding, 
whipped cream, or iced tea.356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 231that wasn’t just Army sanctioned. I think 
he always had that interest in taking 
something that was so humdrum, 
so pedestrian, and turning it into 
something special. I think that’s where 
I got interested in not settling for less, 
always thinking, “This could be a little 
bit better. This could be a little bit more.” 
My relationship with Cook’s [Illustrated]  
is all about that.
Y ou once mentioned that you grew 
up not knowing that things like 
pasta sauce even came in a jar. As 
you learned more about cooking, 
what things surprised you that 
people buy instead of make?
Well, that was one of them because of 
the fact that a great pasta sauce takes 
10 minutes to make, from scratch. 
Salisbury steak that’s in the frozen 
aisle, with frozen mashed potatoes? It 
was almost as if we had all turned into 
astronauts, and we were looking at 
food as a thing to consume instead of 
actually being a meal. Bridget Lancaster on Cooking Misconceptions
Bridget Lancaster is the executive food 
editor for television, radio, and media at 
America’s Test Kitchen. She is an original 
cast member  of America’s Test Kitchen  
and Cook’s Country , both broadcast 
on public television. Before working at 
America’s Test Kitchen, she cooked in 
restaurants in the South and Northeast 
regions of the United States.
How did you get into cooking?
I got  into the hobby of cooking from 
my mother, who is a great cook. This 
was the time when convenience food 
started coming out, prepackaged 
things, foods that had “Helper” at 
the end of the title. My mother just 
refused to participate in any of that. 
So everything was scratch—always 
homemade cakes, breads…
Also, my grandfather worked in the 
Army for years. When he was in Korea, 
he would ask the men in his company 
for different foods that were sent in care 
packages. They would take those foods 
and create a meal, something special 
PHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF AMERICA’S TEST KITCHENNot to say that there aren’t great ready-
made things, like really good sausages 
and canned tomatoes. I use canned 
tomatoes all winter long because I 
don’t really like buying fresh in the 
winter; they’re red Styrofoam. 
Y ou mentioned that you got into 
the hobby of cooking from your 
mother. What are the things that 
you wish you had learned from 
her, that you think are hard to 
learn unless you’re doing it with 
somebody? 
The simplest ingredient is just, it is what 
it is. The less you do to it, the better it is. 
I think understanding the magic step 
was missing. Say you put brownies 
in the oven—it goes away and when 
it comes back, it looks completely 
different. What’s happening at that 
point? I never asked those questions. I 
just accepted it at kind of face value.
I think a lot of people do think that 
it’s a magic box. Y ou put the cookie 
dough in, and you bake it, and out 
comes a cookie somehow. What 
other magic steps happen that 
people don’t realize are important? 
Some of it happens before it even goes 
into the box. One is probably stirring. 
You think of cake batter, cookies, any 
kind of baked good. Before it goes into 
that magic box, if you stir it too much, 
it makes it tougher. That’s now what we 
know as the new villain on the street, 
gluten. It’s important for structure, but 
it can be easily activated more, so that 
there’s more gluten developed. So you 
end up with cake that’s tough instead 
of cake that’s tender. 
Time and TemperatureCooking for Geeks 232thing that your parents could have 
threatened you with when you were 
a child?” Now we eat them like they’re 
popcorn.
Cauliflower is another one. I think this is 
partially thanks to the vegetarian, even 
vegan, crowd that wanted something 
that was thought of as a substantial 
main course. You now see cauliflower 
steaks: it’s treated; it’s browned. It might 
be high-roasted, or it might be grilled, 
but you’re taking the same treatments 
that we’ve done for meat and other 
things and looking at it as a way to 
add more flavor and turn something 
that was a side dish for so long into 
something more special. 
It’s interesting that you tie that 
to vegetarian or vegan cuisine. 
Are there other subgroups that 
deal with food that’ve introduced 
the broader population to new 
interesting things? 
Today, we see an emphasis on different 
grains. Not only is it vegetarianism 
or veganism, but people with gluten 
sensitivities. They can’t have barley. They 
can’t have wheat, obviously. So you’re 
seeing an exploration. Some are new 
things—breads made with new grains 
or a combination of grains—and we’re 
also seeing a little bit of a celebration 
of things that are naturally gluten-free, 
like Southern cornbread. Northern 
cornbread tends to have both flour and 
cornmeal in it, but southern cornbread 
is just cornmeal.
A lot of these trends start in restaurants 
because you have somebody going in 
and saying, “I’m allergic to dairy.” Then 
there are some cultures where the 
foods are just naturally dairy-free. Take 
a lot of Thai food. You don’t see a lot of 
cheeses in Thai food. You don’t see milk, 
dairy milk. You see coconut milk.I think our culture is becoming more 
diverse, not only in its people, but in 
its cuisine. We’re seeing more of this 
in cookbooks and in restaurants and 
in home cooking. We’re trying new 
cuisines from around the world that 
just happen to be either gluten-free or 
dairy-free, but they weren’t engineered 
to be that way. You see people making 
oatmeal porridge with coconut 
milk now, instead of regular milk, or 
smoothies with different types of dairy.
What are the common mistakes 
that you see with people who are 
learning to cook?
Probably the number one mistake is 
they’re afraid of salt. They don’t know 
that salt added at various stages not 
only affects the taste, but also the 
texture of food. You think about adding 
onions to a pan that has oil or butter 
in it—add a little bit of salt to draw 
out the moisture, so you can get more 
caramelization and more flavor that 
way. The most important step, after 
you’ve turned off the stove, is to check 
the food. Adjust the seasonings at the 
end. Is it a little dull? Does salt brighten 
it?
Number two, people just are watching 
the clock instead of peeking under that 
chicken breast to see if it’s browned 
to the right color. That’ll tell you if it’s 
time to turn it over, not necessarily the 
recipe time.
Another thing: there’s a fear of the 
equipment. The safest thing to cook 
with is a very, very  sharp knife. The most 
dangerous thing to cook with is a dull 
knife. And there’s a fear of the stove, in 
a certain way. I see people only turn 
their stovetop up to medium. They’ll 
wonder why, when they put food in the 
pan, it just steamed instead of getting With steak, the magic step is salting. 
My mom would call it a marinade, but 
now we know that soy is the primary 
ingredient, more like a briner-ade. It’s 
part salt brine with more flavor. She 
would let it sit for a good half-hour in 
mostly soy sauce, no real acid in there. 
That went on the grill, and when it 
came back, it was savory all the way 
through. 
Our grandparents didn’t know about 
connective tissue and the conversion 
of collagen into gelatin. But they 
knew that if you had really tough cuts 
of meat, you could literally change 
their structure into something very 
different, as different as cake batter 
compared to a baked cake, by putting 
that tough cut of meat into the oven, 
the longer and slower, the better. You 
really change the structure with only 
temperature and time and how long it 
takes for that to occur. 
The black box of cooking 
vegetables: what do people miss 
there?
I think if I could go back in time and 
get my mom to roast some vegetables, 
I would have been a little less picky. 
As children, our taste buds are very 
different, and we pick up on bitter first, 
before we pick up on other tastes.
Roasting takes away the bitter, and it 
converts it into sweeter and deeper 
flavors, but not bitter. I think that’s 
the best thing that ever happened to 
vegetables. Roasted Brussels sprouts. 
You see them in restaurants now too! 
They bring out baskets of roasted 
Brussels sprouts, and I just laugh 
because I want to take a survey, go 
around the restaurant and ask people, 
“Did you eat Brussels sprouts when 
you were a kid? Wasn’t that the worst 356°F / 180°C: Sugar Quickly Caramelizes 233a really deep, dark crust on it. You have 
to crank the heat up, put some oil in 
the pan, and let that heat until the 
oil just starts to smoke. Smoke is kind 
of a danger sign, but it’s also a great 
indication that you’re ready to go. I 
understand that fear, but the heat gives 
the caramelization and the browning of 
the food.
Where do you think this fear of the 
kitchen comes from?
We’re definitely afraid to fail, but I think 
there’s been a generation or two that 
fell away from the kitchen, and the 
microwave became another black box 
where almost no prep was necessary. 
People were able to eat quickly. I have 
succumbed to Stouffer’s mac-and-
cheese going into the microwave a 
couple times in my life. Pretty darn 
good. 
When you have a fear of something, 
you’re supposed to face it every day, 
and it goes away. I think if you’re only 
cooking once, twice a week, you don’t 
want to screw it up. Plus, if you buy 
really good food items, there’s sticker 
shock, so you really  don’t want to mess 
it up.I think there was a generation where 
cooking was seen as tethering. Not 
to get political, but we didn’t want 
to be tied to the stovetop. A couple 
of generations didn’t benefit from 
someone being in the kitchen. Think 
of the Italian nana, always adding 
something to this big magical pot 
and stirring it away, and you get this 
amazing gravy at the end of it. Not 
everybody had that experience. I think 
it’s coming back. But who would have 
thought that there would be food TV? 
I’m guilty for being a part of it. But who 
in the world, besides Julia Child, did you 
ever think would be on your TV, telling 
you how to cook? Maybe Justin Wilson 
or Graham Kerr, bless his heart.
I remember reading after 9/11 there 
was a big uptick in people buying 
kitchen equipment, because there 
was kind of a feeling that you needed 
to nest. You needed security of your 
home. I remember reading the article 
and thinking, “That’s one of those 
game-changers for some people.”What aspects of cooking and 
science have surprised you? Things 
that should have been easy but 
were hard, or were hard and turned 
out to be easy? 
I think knowing exactly what you just 
said: things that should be easy are the 
hardest. I now know that, but it was a 
surprise. One of the jobs that I went for 
as a cook, you had to make an omelet 
for the chef. Think about an omelet. An 
omelet should be really, really simple, 
and that was the point. But it’s so hard 
to make because there’s so little to an 
omelet; one minor change to a step 
can really change everything.
I think the biggest thing, though, is that 
we can always do better—as long as 
we don’t assume anything. Think of the 
old kitchen lore, “Don’t salt your beans.” 
That’s my favorite one because I never 
salted beans growing up because you 
were gonna just ruin the whole dish. 
Then we find out that actually you 
can salt your beans. It not only adds 
flavor to the dish, but it changes their 
structure so that they’re a little bit 
creamier.
Time and TemperatureChapter Contents
Air, Hot Air, and the Power of Steam  .............. 236
Water Chemistry and How It Affects Your 
Baking  ..................................................... 240
You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely  246
Error Tolerances in Baking  ............................ 258
Yeast  ............................................................ 262
The Quest for Great Pizza  ................ 267
Bacteria  ........................................................ 272Baking Soda  .................................................. 273
The Science of Crispy, Chewy Cookies  ...... 282
Baking Powder  .............................................. 286
Egg Whites  .................................................... 289
Making the Most of Whisked Egg Whites  ...290
Egg Yolks  ...................................................... 297
Whipped Cream  ............................................. 300
Interviews
Jim Lahey on Baking,  260
Jeff Varasano on Pizza,  269
David Lebovitz on 
American and French 
Cooking,  302Recipes
Steam-Powered Popovers,  239
My Dad’s 1-2-3 Crepes ,  251
Seeded Crackers and Easy 
Flatbreads,  253
Pistachio Chocolate 
Baklava,  256
Savory Baked Seitan with 
Spicy String Beans,  257
Double-Crust Pie Dough,  259
No-Knead Bread,  261
Bread—Traditional Method,  264
Yeast Waffles,  267
Pizza Dough—No-Knead 
Method,  271
Buttermilk Pancakes,  278
Spicy Holiday Gingerbread 
Cookies,  279One-Bowl Chocolate Cake,  280
Patent-Violating Chocolate 
Chip Cookies,  284
Cinnamon Raisin Pumpkin 
Cake,  287
Tim’s Scones,  288
French and Italian 
Meringue,  293
My Favorite Cake: 
Chocolate Port Cake,  295
Simple White Wine and 
Cheese Sauce,  298
Zabaglione (Sabayon),  298
Fruit Soufflé,  299
Making Whipped Cream,  301
Chocolate Mousse,  301Labs
Calibrate Your Freezer 
Using Salt Water,  244
Make Your Own Gluten,  254
Getting to Second Base 
with Baking Soda,  2764
ONE NEEDS TO UNDERSTAND MORE THAN TIME AND TEMPERATURE TO 
UNDERSTAND BAKING: AIR AND WATER ARE ALSO KEY VARIABLES. While few of 
us would list air and water as ingredients, they’re critical to baked goods. Both breads and 
cakes rely on air and moisture for their texture, flavor, and appearance. Yeast adds lift and 
flavor to breads; baking powder and baking soda generate carbon dioxide to give cakes 
their rise. Air bubbles in whisked egg whites lift soufflés, lighten macaroons, and elevate 
angel food cakes. And what makes one chocolate chip cookie chewy and another 
crispy is only the difference of a few percentage points of water present in it after 
it’s baked.
Unlike cooking, in which the chemical composition is locked from the start—
chefs can’t change the types of proteins in a fillet of salmon—baking 
requires a well-balanced ratio of ingredients to create gas and trap air. 
Achieving this balance is sometimes about precise measurements at the 
beginning; other times it’s about careful attention to the look and feel of a 
dough as it develops. If you’re an intuitive cook—winging it and adapting 
recipes on the fly—you’ll probably enjoy making bread. On the other hand, 
if you’re a methodical cook—one who enjoys precision and prefers a tidy 
environment—or you like to express affection though food, then baking cakes, 
pastries, and cookies will likely be your thing. Either way, the science behind 
both is fascinating.
In this chapter, we’ll start with a short examination of air, water, and flour and 
then cover the different ingredients used for generating air in both savory and 
sweet dishes: biological (yeast and bacteria), chemical (baking powder and baking 
soda), and mechanical (egg whites, egg yolks, and whipped cream).Air and Water
   235Cooking for Geeks 236
Air, Hot Air, and the Power of Steam
If the ancient Greeks wrote cooking magazines, they probably would have listed fire, earth, 
water, and air as ingredients. Aristotle and other philosophers of his day considered these 
four classical elements to be fundamentally indivisible. Their proof? Adding water to fire 
didn’t create more of either but instead created a new “structure” they called steam.
While the ancient Greeks had a rather simplistic 
understanding of the science, they were on to 
something with their ideas about water and fire: the 
properties of air do change with temperature. As the 
temperature of air goes up, so does the potential 
amount of water in it. This is subtle but important: 
air—mostly nitrogen and oxygen, normally only 0.5 
to 1% water vapor—can hold more water vapor as it 
heats up, if there is a source of water .
Water vapor matters in cooking because of what it 
does when it cools down. Technically, steam isn’t the 
same thing as water vapor. In science, steam refers to 
water droplets suspended in air while water vapor is 
invisible. I’ll use the science definition when talking about science. As temperature drops, the 
maximum percentage of water vapor in air also drops. At some point there will be too much 
water vapor dissolved in cooling air, causing it to condense (that point is called the dew point ). 
You probably normally think of condensation as something that happens on a glass of iced 
tea on a hot summer day, but it happens in your oven too! A cold ball of cookie dough going 
into a hot oven will cause the air around it to cool and the water vapor in that air to condense.
Water vapor gives off an immense amount of heat when it condenses. 
The more water vapor there is in your oven, the stronger a thermal 
punch your cool cookie dough or cake batter is going to take from 
condensation and the quicker it’s going to heat up. A hot, dry oven will 
take longer to cook food than an oven at the same temperature but full 
of water vapor. Steam is powerful!
When you put a batch of cookies in your oven, hot air heats the cookie 
dough in two ways: convection and condensation (see page 143 
for definitions). Convection is easy enough to imagine: hot oven air 
circulates over the surface of cold food, warming it up. (If your oven has a “convection” 
setting, that means it has a fan inside blowing air around, circulating that air faster. Using 
convection mode causes foods to cook faster and dry out faster, which is great for crispy 
pastries and crunchy breads but not so great for steamed buns or custards.)Professional chefs often use 
combi steamers —ovens that 
control both humidity and 
temperature. Perhaps this will 
be standard for home ovens 
someday; until then, most of us 
are stuck with squirt bottles and 
pans full of water.
Maximum Percentage Of Water Vapor By Temperture300°F
149°C100°F
38°C0°F
-18°C200°F
93°C100%
0%50%
Maximum Percentage of Water Vapor by Temperature:
Hot, humid weather means more water vapor 
heating up your food as it bakes.Air, Hot Air, and the Power of Steam 237Condensation is tricky to understand because we don’t normally think about water vapor 
in our recipes (when’s the last time you saw a recipe that says set oven to 50% humidity?!). 
Changes in your kitchen’s humidity will change how foods cook from one day to the next, 
speeding up or slowing down how quickly they heat.
There’s no universal perfect humidity. To get a thick crunchy crust on rustic bread or crispy 
skin on roasted chicken, the surface needs to dry out, so you need a drier oven, at least 
toward the end of cooking. ( Maillard reactions don’t happen when liquid water is around; 
see page 213.) If you’re making dinner rolls—breads with soft, lighter-colored surfaces—
you’ll want a more humid oven. For steamed buns you need an even more humid cooking 
environment, like a steamer or rice cooker. 
Adding humidity is easy enough: as your oven heats, add a baking pan 
of water on a lower shelf and keep it topped off. Or use a spray bottle 
and mist your oven before putting your dish in, taking care not to spray 
the light bulb (it can shatter!). Removing humidity is tougher: using an 
air conditioner or dehumidifier in the kitchen is your best bet.
Humidity is more important for foods that involve yeast. Yeast and 
the enzymes it relies on are all temperature sensitive: yeast generates 
carbon dioxide most rapidly at around 90–95°F/32–35°C. Enzymatic 
reactions that the yeast relies on speed up as temperature increases, 
but at some point the enzymes denature and promptly stop working. (Most enzymes are 
proteins created by an organism and are used to break down other substances; like all 
proteins, they “cook” too.) Oven spring —the additional rise that dough undergoes when 
it first goes in the oven—depends on how quickly the surface of the bread dries out, how 
much sugar the enzymes produce, and how quickly the dough heats up (and thus how 
long the yeast survives).
The second major issue you’ll face in baking is the weather. Wintertime means lower 
humidity and colder indoor air temperatures, slowing down the time it takes for yeast to 
work (try letting the dough rise on top of your fridge or near a radiator). Summer weather 
brings higher humidity, leading to the chance that cakes won’t develop a strong enough 
“exoskeleton” and will fall (try using less water). Or it might rain one day (100% humidity, 
at least at room temperature), but a week later the air might drop down to 50% humidity. 
That’s twice the difference in the amount of water vapor and a major difference in how 
quickly things heat up without any change in room or oven temperatures. Careful attention 
to humidity, rise time, and room temperature can solve baking mysteries.Think about the culture and 
the climate in which a recipe 
originated. The original bakers 
wouldn’t be fighting against their 
environment; they would have 
adapted recipes and the desired 
outcome to suit their climate.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 238The other reason air is so critical in baking is the physical volume it takes 
up inside the food. Air expands as it heats up. Because most baked 
goods “set” with heat, the more air there is to expand, the more space 
it will take after baking, assuming egg proteins on the inside or flour 
starches on the outside set enough to create the necessary scaffolding 
to support everything after cooling.
How air gets into your batters and doughs will end up taking the rest of 
this chapter to explain. Recipes that use rising agents —anything that generates gas (yeast, 
baking soda)—rely on them to generate volume with  small bubbles, almost always carbon 
dioxide. Anything without a rising agent, such as popovers, meringues, and soufflés, can 
rise only by either the expansion of already-present gas or water evaporating into gas. 
Regardless of the source, understanding and controlling air is an important part of the 
science of great baking.
Elevating Your Cooking: Tips for Altitude
Whether you’re camping in Colorado or baking in 
the Swiss Alps, the lower air pressure from being 
at elevation can cause all sorts of headaches: too-
coarse crumbs, fallen cakes, and of course sunburn 
from enjoying the gorgeous terrain. Here are two 
key points:
Boiling point of water by altitude9,000 ft
3,000 m3,000 ft
1,000 m0 ft
0 m6,000 ft
2,000 m212°F / 100°C 
194°F / 89°C203°F / 95°C 
Air bubbles in doughs and batters will expand 
more—potentially too much.  Using yeast? 
Decrease the fermentation time. Chemical 
leaveners should be cut back by 10–25%; egg 
whites should be whisked to a slightly less stiff point. For doughs, making them sturdier will help 
avoid big internal air pockets; see the tips on 
increasing gluten on page 249 to figure out how to 
adjust your recipe.
Water will evaporate faster, leading to drier 
baked goods and more evaporative cooling.  
If your foods aren’t browning well, bump the 
heat up by 15–25°F/  10–15°C to compensate for 
the increase in evaporative cooling. For batters, 
compensate by adding a ~10% quantity of water 
based on the volume of the liquid ingredients.
Adding salt to water raises the boiling 
point —fully saturated saltwater boils 
about 4°F / 2°C higher. It also increases 
the temperature of steam coming off 
of the water! If you’re at altitude and 
steaming something, adding salt to the 
water will bump the temperature up a 
few degrees. 
Have you checked your oven? 
If not, see the sidebar “The Two 
Things You Should Do to Your 
Oven RIGHT NOW” on page 35.
Boiling point of water by altitudeAir, Hot Air, and the Power of Steam 239
Steam-Powered Popovers
A popover  is a quick roll that rises entirely by water 
expanding as it turns into a gas. You can make 
savory versions by adding grated cheese and herbs, 
but my favorite is based on what my mom made 
when I was growing up: buttery popovers with a 
spoonful of strawberry or apricot jam, served for 
weekend breakfast.
Popovers are hollow. They’re unlike almost any other 
baked good—a descendant of Yorkshire pudding and 
cousin of Dutch baby pancakes. As the batter cooks, 
the top surface sets before the interior does, and as 
the interior cooks, water boils off into water vapor 
that is trapped by the top surface.
Traditionally, these are made in specialized popover 
cups, which are narrow, slightly sloped cups that 
have some heft to them, giving them good heat 
retention. Using muffin tins or ramekins works just 
as well.
Whisk together in a mixing bowl or blend in a 
blender:
 1½ cups (355 mL) whole milk
 3 large (150g) eggs
 1½ cups (210g) flour (try half all-purpose, 
half bread to up the gluten content)
 1 tablespoon (15g) melted butter
 ½ teaspoon (3g) saltPreheat both the oven and the popover cups or 
muffin tin at 425°F / 220°C.
Heavily grease the popover cups or muffin tins 
with butter: melt a few tablespoons of butter and 
put a teaspoonful in the bottom of each cup. Fill 
each cup about 1/3 to ½ full with batter and bake. 
After 15 minutes, drop the temperature to 350°F 
/ 180°C and continue baking until the outside 
is set and golden-dark brown, about another 20 
minutes.
Serve at once with jam and butter.
Notes
• If you have a real sweet tooth (or kids) try 
adding sugar and cinnamon, or butter and 
maple syrup.
• Don’t peek while these are baking! Opening 
the oven door will drop the air temperature, 
causing the popovers to drop in temperature 
and lose some of the water vapor that’s critical 
to their rise.
• Curious how the choice of flour affects the 
inside and crust of the popover? Try making 
two batches, one with low-gluten flour and the 
second with a higher-gluten flour. Fill half the 
cups with one batter and the other half with 
the second batter. Bake them at the same time 
and see what happens!
The hollow interior of 
popovers makes them 
perfect vessels for 
butter and jam.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 240Water Chemistry and How It 
Affects Your Baking
Water is wonderfully weird. There’s lots of trivia about water, some of it obvious (it expands 
in volume somewhere between 1,600 and 1,700 times when converted to gas, hence the lift 
it gives in some baking) and some of it brain-smashingly amazing (you can tell the rough 
latitude a tomato was grown at by examining its water composition).
Tap water isn’t just H2O. Among other stuff, trace amounts of minerals, additives such as 
chlorine, and dissolved gases can all come pouring out of the faucet and into your doughs 
and batters. When it comes to yeast and gluten formation (which we’ll cover in the next 
section), those trace minerals and anything that changes the pH of water will make a 
difference. You might find that a recipe that works perfectly fine in one location will need 
tweaking when made elsewhere, due to differences in the water alone!
First, let’s talk about trace minerals. Trace minerals in water—primarily calcium (Ca2+) and 
magnesium (Mg2+)—occur naturally in water, being absorbed as the water passes through 
calcium- and magnesium-containing rock such as limestone and dolomite. Our bodies 
need these minerals; they’ve been present in water since time immemorial. The water 
supplies in different regions vary, with different ratios and different amounts of dissolved 
trace minerals, and those changes impact food. (There’s some thought that the different 
types of teas in the UK evolved from how differences in water supplies changed their flavor. 
For example, Scotland gets most of its water from surface sources such as rainwater 
while Southeast England gets most of its water from aquifers, leading to 
different levels of trace minerals that will interact with compounds in the 
tea.)
The term water hardness refers to the concentrations of dissolved 
trace minerals in water,  soft water  being a low concentration and hard 
water  being high. There’s no exact scale for water hardness because 
temperature, combinations of minerals, and pH all change how these 
minerals interact with other things (especially gluten). Researchers 
generally use parts per million (ppm) of calcium as a measure, so we’ll go 
with that. As the quantity of calcium increases, water is said to be harder, 
presumably because the minerals literally “harden” things.
If you’ve ever encountered scale buildup on faucets—the bane of household 
cleaning—it may be calcium carbonate or calcium stearate. Calcium from hard 
water can combine with carbon dioxide in the air or with stearic acid from soap; 
vinegar, being ~5% acetic acid, will dissolve it.
Water Chemistry and How It Affects Your Baking 241Because hard water has more calcium (and generally more magnesium), it makes gluten 
tougher, less elastic (elasticity is the ability to spring back into shape), and less able to 
stretch, all three of which will lead to denser baked goods. Depending upon how hard your 
water is, you may need to adjust recipes to compensate accordingly. 
Water treated with sodium carbonate? Your water will have more dissolved sodium 
in it and you may need to use less salt to compensate for flavor and texture 
problems.
Water treated with chlorine? Leave a pitcher of it out overnight for the chlorine to 
dissipate, lest it interfere with yeast.
If your water is too hard—you’ll know because yeast-based goods won’t  ferment as well, 
breads will come out denser, and vegetables and beans will cook “tough”—try using filtered 
water as a first attempt. No water filter? Try boiling your water, which will remove any 
dissolved carbon dioxide and in turn cause calcium carbonate to precipitate out. If neither 
option works, and your recipe allows for it, see if cutting down on the salt or adding an 
acid—a squirt of lemon juice ( citric acid), a tiny pinch of vitamin C powder (ascorbic acid), 
or some vinegar (acetic acid)—fixes it.
Range (calcium 
parts per million) Problems Fixes
<60 ppm: Soft water Soft, sticky doughs;
mushy vegetablesIncrease salt
60–120 ppm: Moderately 
hard waterPotentially tough Filter water
>120 ppm: Hard water Doughs not rising; 
toughnessIncrease yeast; add acid; 
decrease salt; filter water
Water that’s too soft can produce sticky doughs and present problems for yeast, which, 
like us, needs minerals to grow and reproduce. If you know you’re adding the right amount 
of water based on ratios, try adding a modest amount of salt. Too much salt, though, and 
you’ll land on the “too tough” side of hardness, plus your bread will end up tasting salty!
What about the pH of your water?
If you have  alkaline water (pH above 7—also usually hard, but not necessarily) and are baking 
with yeast, you’ll need to add an acidic ingredient to compensate. Baked goods that rely on 
yeast need water with a pH below 7, because yeast uses sugar as an energy source and sugar 
is created from starch by pH-sensitive enzymes (e.g., amylase in flour). Likewise, if your recipe 
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 242is generating bubbles of carbon dioxide by using baking soda as a base and you have  alkaline 
water, you may need to cut back on the baking soda; otherwise, you might have unreacted 
baking soda in your final baked goods along with its unpleasant, soapy taste.
You shouldn’t have to deal with water that’s too acidic: the United States EPA 
(Environmental Protection Agency) recommends a pH of tap water between 6.5 and 8.5. 
For most of us, the pH of our water isn’t an issue in baking, but it can be for those with 
especially hard water, which is usually basic.
(PS: Debates about how much salt you should cook beans with often overlook water 
differences: some ~15% of cooks have too-soft water; then there’s the pH of the water. 
More salt makes beans cook quicker; more acidic water slows down their cooking. Mushy 
beans are related to too-long cooking time; flatulence occurs with some beans that are 
not presoaked and are cooked too briefly. Speaking of boiling salty water, it’s true that salt 
raises the boiling point, but by so little that that’s not why it can change cooking times. It’s 
the chemical changes, not the physical changes, that can do that.)
Where you live determines how much gluten 
 will form in your bread dough.
MODIFIED VERSION OF MAP BY US GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR/USGS.Gray?  
Soft water 
(<60 ppm), 
so expect 
stickier 
doughs.Dark Blue? 
You’ve got 
really hard 
water  
(>180 ppm).Water Chemistry and How It Affects Your Baking 243How Would Sherlock Holmes Tell Where 
His Tomatoes Came From?
It’s elements, my dear 
Watson. Isotopomers, 
to be specific. Most 
of us—including 
Watson—think of a 
glass of water as being 
H2O, maybe along with some trace elements, 
dissolved gases, and the like. H2O means two 
hydrogen atoms bonded with an oxygen atom 
(in water’s case, it’s a covalent bond, which we’ll 
discuss on page 196). What “H2O” doesn’t say is 
what isotopes  of those atoms are present.
Oxygen, as an element, is an atom that has eight 
protons, thus its atomic number and place on 
the periodic table of elements. Oxygen normally 
also has eight neutrons—that’s just the fewest 
neutrons it takes to create a stable nucleus—so 
chemists don’t bother writing out the expanded 
version, 16O (the 16 comes from the number of 
protons and neutrons, and 16O is read “oxygen 16”).
99.73% of the time, the O in H2O is 16O, as in H216O. 
But what about the other 0.27%? In addition to 
16O, oxygen has two other stable isotopes: 17O 
and 18O, with 9 and 10 neutrons, respectively. Hydrogen happens to come in three isotopes as 
well—no neutrons, one neutron, two neutrons—
the first two of which are stable. (Don’t ask about 
the third one—it had too much to drink.) That 
“simple” glass of H2O quickly becomes a complex 
mixture.
Given how complicated water is, it’s a wonder 
supermarkets can manage to label tomatoes 
with the same SKU number and keep them as 
consistent as they do. Speaking of tomatoes: the 
lighter variants of water evaporate more quickly 
than the heavier ones (more neutrons, more 
weight). Because evaporation is higher nearer 
the equator, the ratios of the six isotopomers in 
soil skew toward the lighter variants. With the 
right equipment (a mass spectrometer), Sherlock 
could analyze the water composition of a tomato 
to tell roughly what climate it was grown in. 
Add in analysis of trace minerals and, after 
correlating that with geographical variations in 
soil composition, he’d probably be able to nail 
the country of origin down, too. Even Holmes’s 
nemesis, Professor Moriarty, would be impressed.
1H16O
1H
1H18O
1H
1H17O
1H1H16O
2H
2H16O
2H
3H16O
2H1H216O: 99.73%
1H218O: 0.20%
1H217O: 0.04%1H2H16O: 0.03%
2H216O: 22 parts per billion
3H2H16O: a tiny, tiny,  
tiny bit of it which is a good 
thing because it’s 
radioactive…that’s a hydrogen 
with no neutrons + 
a hydrogen with one 
neutron + an oxygen 
with eight neutrons
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 244
Water chemistry impacts a lot more than how 
gluten forms. Adding salt to water changes 
not just its boiling point but also its freezing 
point—this is known as freezing-point depression . 
Different concentrations of salt will depress the 
freezing point by different amounts. If you can 
calibrate an oven using the chemistry of sugar 
(see page 36), why not calibrate your freezer with 
the chemistry of salt water?
Sure, using a thermometer to check the 
temperature of your freezer is easier, but how 
do you know if your thermometer is accurate? 
Fahrenheit—as in Daniel Fahrenheit, the 
German physicist—originally defined 0°F as the 
temperature based on a mixture of ice, water, and 
ammonium chloride (a salt, like sodium chloride). 
And besides, this is more fun, and shows some 
neat stuff about how dissolving something in 
water changes the way the water behaves.
First, grab these supplies:
• Digital scale (optional, but strongly preferred)
• If no scale, ½ cup measuring cup and 
teaspoon
• 6 disposable cups
• Pen or pencil to write on cups
• Table salt
• Pitcher of water
• And, obviously, a freezerHere’s what to do:
1. Label the cups 0%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 
25% to record the concentration of salt in 
each sample.
2. Using the scale, add 100 grams of water to 
each cup. If you don’t have a scale, use ½ cup 
water (118g), or if you have measuring cups 
in mL, use those to measure out 100 mL of 
water.
3. Make the saltwater solutions by adding the 
correct amount. For a 20% solution with 100 
grams of water, you should add 25 grams of 
salt, because a 20% solution of salt in water 
is 80% water, 20% salt. So, with 100 grams 
water ÷ 0.80, the total solution weight will be 
125 grams.
• If you don’t have a scale: 1 teaspoon of 
standard table salt weighs 5.7 grams, so to 
make a 20% solution with ½ cup of water 
(118g), you’d need:
1 118 grams ÷ 0.80 = 147.5 grams total 
weight…
2 147.5 – 118 = 29.5 grams of salt…
3 29.5 grams of salt ÷ 5.7 grams salt in a 
teaspoon = 5 1/4 teaspoons of standard 
table salt per ½ cup of water for a 20% 
solution
• For 5% solution in ½ cup of water, it’s 
about 1 teaspoon; 10% is 2  1/3; 15% is 3  2/3; 
20% is 5¼; and 25% is 7.
4. Place cups in freezer and wait for them to 
completely cool down, ideally a day.Lab: Calibrate Your Freezer Using Salt WaterWater Chemistry and How It Affects Your Baking 245
How cold should your freezer be?  
The FDA recommends that freezers be set to 
0°F/–18°C: cold enough to halt the growth of 
spoilage bacteria and food pathogens but not so 
cold as to turn ice cream into bricks or potentially 
give us frostbite from eating things like frozen 
peppermint patties.
Investigation time!
Once the saltwater solutions have equalized to the 
temperature of your freezer, check which ones are 
liquid and which have frozen water.
You’ll notice that one or two of the cups are 
partially frozen, with a layer of ice on top and 
slushy water below. Freezing salt water doesn’t 
create frozen salt water. It creates ice—the solid 
phase of water—and more concentrated salt water, 
thus driving the freezing point of the remaining 
liquid lower. (Making clear ice also involves the 
separation of solutes from solvents, but that’s a 
story for another book.) 
Using the chart shown here, find the temperate 
range between your least concentrated sample 
that had any frozen water (your freezer is at least 
that cold) and the one that remained entirely 
liquid (your freezer is at least that warm).
If it’s your 10% solution, then your freezer is 
colder than 14° F/–6 °C.
Why do you think the chart stops just before 25%? 
(It stops at 23.3% concentration of salt, which 
freezes at –6 °F / –21.1 °C.)Percent Salt (NaCl) by weight20% 25% 5% 0% 10% 15%32 °F / 0 °C 
-4 °F/ -20 °C  14 °F / -10 °C  
-22 °F / -30 °C 50 °F / 10 °C 
Freezing point of salt water by concentration of salt.
Extra credit:
For a follow-up experiment, repeat the process 
with 1% intervals between the concentration 
that remained liquid and the one that had frozen 
water.
Table salt isn’t actually pure NaCl: there’s invariably 
0.5 to 1.0% sodium silicoaluminate (silica) in 
there. If you take a clear glass of water and dump 
in enough salt, then let it sit for a while, you’ll 
actually see the silica separate out and settle to the 
bottom. Silica doesn’t get much attention, and as 
an essential trace element it’s not a problem that 
it shows up in your salt. It does mean, though, that 
all of the salt measurements should technically be 
adjusted by about ~1% upward. Details, details…
Lab: Calibrate Your Freezer Using Salt Water
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 246You Must Choose Your Flour, 
but Choose Wisely
Light, fluffy foods like bread need two things: air and something to trap that air. This might 
seem obvious, but without some way of holding on to air while cooking, croissants would 
be as flat as pie crust. This is where your choice of flour comes in.
Flour is, most generically speaking, ground-up “stuff”: usually grain, usually wheat. Flours 
made from other grains—rice, buckwheat, corn/maize—are also commonly used, and 
flours made from seeds and nuts give us even more choices, like almond flour, chickpea 
flour, and amaranth flour.
Wheat flour, as  an ingredient, has many properties that professional and industrial bakers 
need to consider, but the selection of flours available to the home baker is generally limited 
to a handful based on commodity crops, with the main differences being how much gluten 
can be formed. Hopefully soon we’ll see a renaissance in wheat flour, just as we have with 
other ingredients such as apples and coffee beans. (Although, seriously, how many varieties 
of apples do we need?) Until then, most of us are stuck with just a handful of choices, so 
here is some wisdom that can aid you in choosing and working with flour, lest your breads 
turn to dust and blow away (“he chose…poorly, ” as the line goes).
Most wheat flour sold in the United States is AP (short for all-purpose ) flour, named such 
because it’s generally suited for most baking tasks. AP flour is made from the endosperm 
of the wheat grain and creates about 10–12% gluten (by weight) when worked. When you 
read “flour” in a recipe, this is what you should use. In parts of Europe, flour is classified by 
ash content, a measure of mineral content. Ash content is determined by which parts and 
ratios of the kernel are used. Using only the endosperm yields a lower ash content and 
whiter flour—e.g. Italian “00” (“doppio zero”)—and being more refined is generally ground 
finer. While there’s no guarantee that a “00” flour will be lower in protein or more finely 
ground than a higher ash one, most “00” flours are similar to finely ground AP flour.
Wheat allergies and gluten sensitivity are different things—someone can be 
allergic to proteins in wheat but have no issue with gluten in other flours, and vice versa. If you’re cooking for someone with a wheat allergy, see page 450. For gluten sensitivities, use ingredients that don’t form gluten, such as rice, buckwheat, corn, or quinoa.
You’ll sometimes see recipes call for whole wheat flour or cake or pastry flour instead. With 
whole wheat flour, the wheat grain’s bran and germ are milled along with the endosperm, 
so the flour has more fiber (bran!) and creates less gluten (the proteins for gluten come You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 247primarily from the endosperm). Cake and pastry flours are similar to AP flour but form less 
gluten, either because they use softer wheats that have less protein or because of chemical 
processing (bleaching) that changes the flour.
Gluten gets a lot of attention in baking because it’s what creates structure in baked 
goods. Gluten is created when two proteins— glutenin and gliadin in the case of wheat—
come into contact with each other to form what chemists call crosslinks : bonds between 
molecules that hold them together. In the kitchen, bakers create this crosslinking by adding 
water and then mixing, but instead of talking about crosslinks, they speak of “developing 
the gluten. ” During mixing, the two proteins bind together with water, and the resulting 
gluten molecules in turn stick together to form an elastic, stretchy membrane. That 
membrane traps air bubbles from ingredients like yeast, baking soda, and even water to 
give baked goods their height and springy texture.
Understanding how to control gluten formation will vastly improve your baked goods. Do 
you want a chewy texture? Do you want something with lift and rebound when it’s pressed? 
Then you’ll need to develop enough gluten to provide the necessary texture and elasticity. If 
you’re trying to create a fluffy pancake, crumbly cake, or crispy cookie, you’ll want to decrease 
the amount of gluten, either by reducing the amount of gluten-forming proteins or by adding 
ingredients that disrupt that gluten, such as butter, egg yolks, and sugar.
Let’s start with the easy part: controlling the amount of gluten by changing the amount of 
protein. Wheat is the most common source of gluten and creates the highest percentage of 
it. Different strains of wheat have different concentrations of glutenin and gliadin proteins, 
based on the growing climate, so varying the source of wheat will vary the amount of protein 
in its flour. Other grains, like rye and barley, have the necessary proteins but in smaller 
quantities. Flours made from corn, rice, buckwheat, and quinoa won’t form any gluten.
Phyllo dough—also spelled filo dough—is an 
unleavened dough used in pastries like baklava. It’s 
made by mixing flour and water and repeatedly 
folding and rolling to develop gluten. It’s also paper-
thin: the sheets I checked were 0.0065” / 0.175 mm 
thick. Phyllo dough remains flexible while moist, but 
becomes brittle when dry. Take care to not let it dry 
out when working with it and use a spray bottle of 
water to moisten it if necessary.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 248Changing the cultivar of wheat, changing the way the flour is milled, or blending in 
nonwheat flours will change how much gluten exists that will trap air. If you’re used to 
working with AP flour, substituting whole wheat flour or flours from other grains will reduce 
the amount of gluten and give you a flatter (possibly still tasty!) loaf. Switching to bread 
flour (start with 50% by weight and add a little more water) will increase the amount of 
gluten, resulting in a higher loaf.
What if you want the flavor of a certain type of flour (say, whole wheat flour or buckwheat) 
but need more gluten? You can add wheat gluten , wheat flour that has had bran and starch 
removed, yielding a 70%+ gluten content. If you want to swap out AP flour for whole wheat 
flour, replace 10% of the flour (by weight) with wheat gluten to add back the right quantity 
of gluten. (If substituting whole wheat flour for regular flour, you’ll also want to use extra 
water—the bran and germ will absorb it—or decrease the amount of flour; either way, let 
the dough rest twice as long.)
Choosing the right types of flours is the easy way of controlling how much gluten exists 
in your baked goods. Use wheat flours higher in the necessary proteins to create more; 
use softer wheat flours or other types to reduce it. The other way is more complicated but 
sometimes necessary: prevent the glutenin and gliadin from forming crosslinks, or break 
those crosslinks after they form.
GLUTEN PERCENTAGE
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 148 17
Wheat (Hard White)
9 14.5
Wheat (Hard Red Winter)
11.5 18
Wheat (Hard Red Spring)8 11
Wheat (Soft Red Winter)
10 17
Durum Wheat
AP Flour
General Baking
Cookies
PancakesCake Flour
Cakes
Pastry Flour
Pastries
Gravy and SaucesBread Flour
Yeast Breads
Croissants
RollsBarley RyeCorn
Buckwheat
Rice
Quinoa
Gluten levels of various grains and common flours. Besides wheat, both barley and rye form noticeable 
amounts of gluten, although rye also contains substances that interfere with its ability to form gluten.You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 249Why biscuits are Southern food and Wonder Bread came 
from the Midwest
Colder climates favor flour cultivars with more glutenin and 
gliadin proteins. Flour in, say, France won’t be identical to 
that grown in the US, and different regions will differ, too. 
Where your flour comes from will change its properties. 
Since different mills use different flours, try baking with a 
couple of different brands.
cold climate = hard wheat = high gluten
warmer climate = soft wheat = low gluten
Consider the following tips for managing gluten levels:
Use fats and sugar to reduce gluten formation.
Cookies crumble and cakes are tender because of fat and sugar, both of which prevent 
gluten from forming. Oil, butter, and egg yolks all add fat to doughs, preventing 
crosslinking, while sugar is hygroscopic and snaps up the water before gluten does. If 
your baked goods aren’t coming out with a desirable crumbly texture, one possible fix 
is to increase the fats (hence “one egg plus one egg yolk”) or sugar (if not too sweet).
Use mechanical agitation and rest time to develop gluten.
Mechanical agitation (a.k.a. kneading) physically rams proteins together, increasing the 
odds that they’ll form gluten. Letting dough sit also develops gluten by giving wheat’s 
glutenin and gliadin proteins time to combine as the dough subtly moves. This is why 
the no-knead bread recipe on page 261 works.
Don’t overmix.
Too much kneading weakens gluten. Mixing a batter or dough initially develops gluten 
by bringing the necessary proteins together, but after a few minutes, enzymes in the 
flour will cause the gluten to break down. 
Ever wonder why some recipes tell you to mix “just until incorporated” (muffins) and 
others say “mix for a few minutes” (breads and dinner rolls)? Researchers use Farinograph 
charts to check dough viscosity over time as it’s mixed, and one look at such a chart 
explains it all. It takes about a minute of mixing for a flour-and-water 
dough to have formed enough gluten to give a chewy, breadlike 
texture. Mixing less than that will avoid that texture—good in 
muffins, not so good in breads. On the other extreme, mixing for more 
than a few minutes will cause enzymes in the flour to break down the 
gluten, deteriorating below the magic “500 Brabender Unit” threshold. 
(Brabender Units are an arbitrary measure of viscosity.) These one-
minute and five-minute rules will vary depending upon your dough 
and ingredients, but they’re good rules of thumb.Brabender Units versus Time (in minutes)8 10 2 0 4 6500 BU
100 BU300 BU
Brabender Units versus time (in minutes) 
shows the viscosity of a dough as it’s mixed.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 250Pay attention to water.
Quantity matters: you need enough water for gluten to form, but add too much and 
the proteins won’t bump into each other. In bread dough, aim for about a 0.60:0.65 
ratio of water to flour (about 30–35% water by weight); more than that, and you’ll 
get large, irregular holes, which can be nice in rustic bread, but not sandwich bread. 
Flours with more gluten will absorb a little more water, so adjust the amount of water 
accordingly. Due to evaporative cooling, batters with too much water will end up with 
surface issues and stall out, leading to cakes that fall after baking; if you see that, cut 
back on wet ingredients. You’ll face similar issues if the humidity is too high, so reduce 
wet ingredients in this case too.
Ingredients like sugar, flour, and salt all absorb atmospheric moisture, so changes in 
humidity will change the amount of water they bring to the recipe. Ideally, buy and 
store them in airtight containers; otherwise, on humid days, reserve a fifth or so of your 
liquid ingredients and add in what’s necessary to achieve consistency.
Pay attention to minerals and salt.
Gluten also needs some amount of calcium or magnesium from dissolved minerals in 
water; you can counterbalance too much or too little by adjusting the amount of salt 
in your dough. As for salt, there’s some wiggle room, but in breads, try to keep salt at 
between 1% and 2% of the total weight for optimal lift. Finally, be mindful of high pH 
levels: if your water is  alkaline, add an acid (vitamin C, lemon juice, vinegar). (See page 
240 for more on how water impacts your baking.)
Loaf Volume (cc) By Percent Salt (NaCl)4% 1% 0% 2% 3%1000 CC
800 CC900 CC
700 CC
Loaf volume (cc) by percent salt (NaCl).You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 251
My Dad’s 1-2-3 Crepes 
My dad occasionally made these “1-2-3” crepes—
named for the ratio of ingredients—before sending 
us off to school. (Why don’t we make these sorts of 
things before heading off to work?!)
Eggs, not flour, provide the structure for crepes, so 
try using different flours. In France, it’s common 
to use buckwheat flour in savory crepes (which are 
also, incidentally, gluten free). The buckwheat flour 
adds a wonderful robust flavor.
Whisk until entirely mixed, about 30 seconds:
 1 cup (240 mL) milk (preferably whole milk)
 2 large (100g) eggs
 1/3 cup (45g) flour
  Pinch of salt
Let rest for at least 15 minutes, preferably longer.
Start with a nonstick frying pan over medium-
high heat and preheat for about a minute, until a 
drop of water sizzles when dropped onto it. 
Butter: Grab a cold stick of butter with the 
wrapper partially pulled back and, using the 
wrapper as a handle, spread a small amount of 
butter around the pan.
Wipe down: Use a paper towel to wipe the butter 
over the surface of the pan. The pan should look 
dry; you want a super-thin coating of butter.
Pour: Pour in the batter with one hand while 
holding the pan in the air with the other and 
swirling it so that the batter spreads over the 
surface: use ¼ cup / 60 mL of batter for a 10” / 
25 cm pan, adjusting as necessary to just coat 
the bottom evenly. Check the heat of the pan. It 
should be hot enough that the batter develops a 
lacelike quality—little holes all over the crepe—
as the water in the batter boils and tunnels up 
through the batter. If lace holes aren’t forming, 
turn up the heat.
Flip: Wait until the crepe begins to brown around 
the edges, then use a spatula to push down the 
edge all around the circumference. This will 
release and lift the edge of the crepe. Flip the 
crepe using the spatula, or do what I do: grab the 
lifted edge with your fingers and flip it by hand. 
Let the crepe cook on the second side for half a 
minute or so.
Flip again:  This will leave the better-looking side 
on the outside of the finished crepe.
Add fillings: You can cook eggs or melt cheese by 
leaving the pan on the heat during this step (add 
the filling directly on top of the cooked crepe); 
otherwise, transfer the crepe to a plate and then 
fill. After adding fillings, either fold the crepe in 
half and half again, or roll it up like a cigar. 
Some suggestions for fillings:
• Cheese, eggs, and ham
• Cream cheese, dill, and lox
• Roasted vegetables and goat cheese
• Powdered sugar and lemon juice
• Bananas and chocolate spread 
• Fresh fruit with ricotta
• Pie filling with whipped cream
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 252Mill Your Own Flour 
Milling flour is a lot easier than you might 
imagine: snag some wheat berries—which are 
just hulled wheat kernels, with bran, germ, and 
endosperm still intact—from your local health 
food store or farmers’ market, run them through a 
mill, and you’ve got fresh flour.
Why bother? Well, for one, the 
taste is fresher, because 
volatile compounds in the 
wheat won’t have had time to 
break down. You also get a lot 
more control over both the 
grind size and types of grain 
being used. Then there are the 
health aspects. In most 
commercial whole wheat flours the germ is heat 
processed to prevent it from going rancid, but this 
processing also affects some of the fats in the 
flour.
On the downside, freshly milled flour won’t develop 
gluten as well as aged flour. This is probably fine 
for a rustic loaf of bread, but not so good if you’re 
trying to make whole wheat pasta (where the 
gluten holds it together). Of course, you can always 
add in some gluten flour to boost the gluten levels 
back up or use a dough enhancer, but that robs the 
appeal of “from scratch,” at least for me.
You have a couple of options for mills. If you 
have a stand mixer, 
check to see if the 
manufacturer makes 
a mill attachment. 
If you do spring for 
one, be forewarned 
that it can put quite 
a strain on the 
mixer. Set it to low 
speed and run your grain through in two passes, doing a first pass to a 
coarse grind before doing a fine grind. If you don’t 
have a stand mixer, or don’t mind the higher cost 
and dedicated counter space requirement, look 
online for wheat grinders. 
You can run other grains, such as rice and barley, 
through a mill as well. Too-moist grains and 
higher-fat items like almonds or cocoa nibs are a 
no-go, though: they’ll gum up the grinder. (Try 
using a high-powered blender for those.)
One more thing: don’t expect to be able to mill 
things like cake flour. Cake flour has the bran 
and germ removed; plus, it’s often bleached with 
chlorine gas to mature it. Maturing —the process 
by which flour is aged—would eventually happen 
naturally due to oxidation, but chlorine treatment 
speeds it up. It also modifies the starch in the 
flour so that it can absorb more water during 
gelation (see page 408 for more on gelation of 
starches) and weakens the proteins in the flour, 
reducing the amount of gluten that can be formed. 
Additionally, chlorination lowers the temperature 
of gelation, so batters that include solids—nuts, 
fruits, chocolate chips—perform better because 
there’s less time for the solids to sink before the 
starches are able to gel up around them. Doing 
things all the way from scratch is fun, but it’s also 
limiting.
Wheat berries.
 First pass: coarse grind.
 Second pass: fine grind.You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 253
Seeded Crackers and Easy Flatbreads
If you want a culinary experimental journey, start 
with the idea of “three parts flour, one part water” 
baked in a hot oven for 10 minutes, iterate half a 
dozen times, and you’ll end up rediscovering what 
the Ancient Egyptians first made: flatbread . Making 
crackers and flatbread is easier than you think. Way 
easier.
Crackers and their untrimmed version, flatbreads, 
are sometimes leavened—pita and saltine crackers, 
for example, use yeast—while other times 
unleavened. Unleavened versions take minutes 
to mix and minutes to bake, hence their religious 
symbolism in Judaism’s Passover and Christianity’s 
Eucharist. Regardless of symbolism, they’re quick to 
make: 20 minutes, start to finish.
You’ll find these crackers to be crisper than their 
leavened counterparts—treat them as vehicles for 
toppings.
In a bowl, measure out:
 1 cup (140g) bread flour
 1/3 cup (80 mL) water
 ½ teaspoon (3g) table salt (don’t use coarse 
salt; it won’t mix in well)
 2 teaspoons (10 mL) olive oil
 2–4 tablespoons seeds and herbs (optional; try 
equal parts poppy seeds and sesame seeds)
Using a spoon, mix to form a “shaggy” dough. 
It will be quite dry. Pick it up with your hands 
and knead it for a minute or two. Divide in half, 
setting half aside for a second batch.On a lightly floured cutting board, roll the dough 
out into a strip about 6 inches (15 cm) wide, and 
as long as possible. You want the dough to be 
rolled out as thinly as possible; aim for about 
an eighth of an inch (a few millimeters). If your 
crackers come out tough, roll them thinner!
Using a knife, trim the dough into squares or 
strips—or leave untrimmed for a large, flatbread-
style cracker.
Prick the dough with fork tines (this prevents 
pockets of air from billowing up the crackers), 
then transfer to a baking sheet.
Bake at 400°F / 200°C for 10–12 minutes, until 
light brown. If your crackers come out chewy, 
bake a few minutes longer.
Notes
• If the seeds and herbs toast well, then they’ll 
work well in crackers. Try sesame seeds, 
sunflower seeds, poppy seeds, fennel seeds, 
ground black pepper, rosemary, and all their 
combinations.
• I can’t resist adding a non sequitur here: in 
technology, a cracker  is someone who illicitly 
breaks into systems, while a hacker  is someone 
who “thinks like a geek” and 
creatively uses things 
outside their original 
purpose.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 254
You’ll need the following materials:
• 1 cup (140g) all-purpose flour
• 1 cup (140g) bread flour (optional, but nice to 
compare to all-purpose flour)
• 1 cup (140g) cake or pastry flour• 3 small bowls (one for each flour sample)
• Pitcher of water
• Spoon
• Digital scale
We’ve talked about how to make your own flour 
(see page 252) and how important gluten is in 
baking (see page 246), but how do researchers 
figure out how much gluten is in different 
varieties of flour? Try this simple experiment 
to separate out and “see” how much gluten is in 
various types of flour.
Even though wheat flour is primarily used for its 
proteins and starches, it’s worth stepping back 
and looking at what else is hanging out in that 
bag in your pantry:
  Starch: 65–77%
  Protein: 8–13%
  Water: ~12%
  Fiber: 3–12%
  Fat: ~1%
  Ash: ~1%
The two main compounds in wheat flour are starch 
and protein (primarily glutenin and gliadin). 
There’s a range of percentages because warmer 
growing climates lead to lower levels of protein 
and higher levels of starch. Fiber is similar to 
starch in that both are carbohydrates— saccharides  
to biochemists—but our bodies don’t have a 
mechanism to digest all forms of saccharides; 
those that we can’t digest get classified as fiber 
(sometimes called nonstarch polysaccharides ). As for 
ash, this is the broad term given to trace elements 
and minerals such as calcium, iron, and salt.Here’s what to do:
1. Measure equal quantities of the flours into 
each bowl. Add just enough water (about 
1/4 cup / 60g) to each bowl so that, using 
the spoon, you can stir the flour into a wet, 
sticky ball. 
2. Pour more water into the bowls, covering 
the balls, and let rest for at least 30 minutes 
(overnight is fine, too). This rest period allows 
the gluten to develop (in baking, this process 
is called the autolyse technique ).
3. After the balls have soaked, rinse the starches 
out by pinching and kneading them in your 
hands under the water. You’ll notice the 
water gets extremely cloudy; this is from 
the starches washing out. If your bowls are 
small, change the water out for fresh water as 
needed, or do this step under slowly running 
tap water. Keep working the flour for a few 
minutes until it has a very elastic quality to 
it. This is the gluten.
4. Weigh the gluten that you’ve separated out 
and compare their weights. Your gluten balls 
will weigh more than the percentage gluten of 
the flour because of the water they absorbed.Lab: Make Your Own GlutenYou Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 255
Investigation time!
What’s the percentage difference of weight 
between the different gluten balls? (Even though 
the weight includes absorbed water, the ratio of 
weight between gluten balls will still line up.)
How does this compare with what you’d expect, 
based on the difference in gluten ratios between 
different types of flours? For example, because 
bread flour is ~13% gluten and pastry flour is 
~8% gluten, roughly speaking, you’d expect that 
a gluten ball made from bread flour would weigh 
1.62 times (13 ÷ 8) as much as one made from 
pastry flour.
What do you think will happen if you 
do this with other types of flour, 
especially those used in gluten-free 
cooking, such as buckwheat flour? If 
you use whole wheat flour, 
you’ll notice gritty, 
brown stuff. Why is 
that?Extra credit:
Baking the balls of gluten at a low temperature 
(250°F / 120°C) for a few hours will dry them 
out, leaving you with just the gluten. Divide the 
weight of the baked gluten balls by the weight 
of the flour you started with to get a good 
approximation of the gluten percentage.
You can drop a gluten ball into a glass of rubbing 
alcohol to separate out the glutenin and gliadin 
proteins. The gliadin will form long, thin, sticky 
strands, and the glutenin will resemble something 
like tough rubber.
All-purpose flour
 Bread flour
 Whole wheat flourLab: Make Your Own Gluten
GLUTEN PERCENTAGE
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14Whole Wheat FlourAP Flour Cake Flour
Pastry Flour Bread FlourBarley
RyeCorn
Buckwheat
Rice
Quinoa
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 256
Pistachio Chocolate Baklava
Phyllo dough is  easy to work with and can be used 
to create spectacular textures. Baklava, a Middle 
Eastern dessert, is typically made by baking 
alternating layers of phyllo dough and a nut 
mixture, and then coating the outside with a honey 
sauce.
My version here is rolled like a cigar to make a log 
that is sliced after baking, and served with whipped 
cream and lemon zest. Don’t skimp on those two 
ingredients—they balance out the flavor in an 
incredible way!
Defrost 1 package of phyllo dough  per directions 
on box (typically a few hours in the fridge and an 
hour on the counter; plan ahead!); you’ll need 6–9 
sheets (a few extra in case one tears).
Preheat oven to 350°F / 180°C.
In a pan, toast 1 cup (100g) coarsely chopped 
pistachio nuts  and 1 cup (100g) coarsely 
chopped walnuts , pecans , or almonds  until they 
just begin to brown.
Transfer the nuts to a small bowl and mix in the 
following ingredients, stirring until the butter is 
melted:
 ¼ cup (50g) sugar
 2 tablespoons (30g) unsalted butter
 1 teaspoon (2g) cinnamon
  Pinch of salt
In another small bowl, measure out 2 ounces 
(~60g) chopped bittersweet chocolate . 
Melt ½ cup (115g) butter  in a small bowl or 
measuring cup. 
Lay out a sheet of phyllo dough on a large cutting 
board. Using a pastry brush or a flat rubber 
spatula (or, in a pinch, two fingers), spread a thin layer of melted butter over the entire sheet. Place 
a second sheet of phyllo dough on top, and brush 
another thin layer of butter on it.
Using a third of the nut mixture, make a strip 2” 
/ 5 cm wide along one of the short edges of the 
phyllo dough. Sprinkle a third of the chopped 
chocolate on top of the nut mixture. (Mixing the 
chocolate and nuts together beforehand would 
melt the chocolate.)
Carefully fold the side of the phyllo dough with 
the nuts on it over onto itself, starting to roll up 
the sheets. Brush the exposed underside with a 
thin layer of butter, and then roll again, buttering 
and rolling until the dough is completely rolled up.
Transfer the log to a cookie sheet, coat again with 
butter, and repeat the process with the remaining 
sheets of phyllo dough and fillings.
Bake for 15–20 minutes, until golden brown.
While the baklava is baking, create a syrup. In a 
small pan, bring to a boil:
 ½ cup (100g) sugar
 ¼ cup (60 mL) water
 2 tablespoons (40g) honey
 ¼ teaspoon (0.5g) cinnamon
Remove from heat and add the juice of ½ small 
lemon , about 1 tablespoon.
Make about a cup’s worth of sweetened whipped 
cream  (see page 301).
To serve, cut the baklava roll into 2–3” / 5–8 
cm lengths. Place a piece on a serving plate, 
drizzle the syrup on top, and add a large spoonful 
of whipped cream on the side. Garnish with a 
sprinkle of diced lemon zest.You Must Choose Your Flour, but Choose Wisely 257
Savory Baked Seitan with Spicy String Beans
Seitan, high in plant proteins from gluten and thus a staple in vegetarian and vegan 
meals, is worth a place in every chef’s extended repertoire. It’s made using gluten 
from flour (see page 254 to learn how to make your own gluten). You can make many 
different textures and flavors of seitan by varying the amount of water, adjusting the 
seasoning, and changing the cooking method. Baking will lead to firmer seitan; steaming 
and boiling lead to softer textures. Try this savory baked seitan—high in umami, making 
it taste almost meatlike—as an introduction to making your own “mock meat.”
Mix together in a large bowl:
 ¾ cup (180 mL) water
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) soy sauce
 1 teaspoon (5g) tomato paste
 ½ teaspoon (5g) garlic paste, or 1 clove mashed and finely diced
Add, and use a spoon to mix to a thick, elastic dough:
 1 1/3 cup (160g) gluten flour (also called “ vital wheat flour”)
Coat a baking dish with a thin layer of olive oil . Shape the dough into 
a flat patty and place into the baking dish. Cover with foil and bake at 
325°F / 160°C for 60–75 minutes, until the outside is partly brown. (Cut 
in half to check; if you see a “wet” center, it’s not done. If you’re not 
sure, or if you want to experiment with the texture, set aside a piece, 
cook the rest longer, and compare. Personally, I think overcooked is 
better than undercooked on this one.)
While the seitan is baking, prepare the string beans.
In a small pan, bring 1 quart (~1 liter) water  and 2 tablespoons (35g) salt  to a full 
boil. 
Set out a frying pan with a thin layer of olive oil  and add ½ teaspoon (0.5g) 
crushed red pepper flakes . 
Snap the stems off of 2 handfuls (200g) fresh green beans  and remove any fibrous 
“strings,” if you’re using an heirloom variety. Add them to the boiling salt water. 
After 2–3 minutes, depending on how firm you like your green beans, fetch them 
out with tongs or strain the pot, and then transfer them to the frying pan. Flip the 
heat under the frying pan to high and briefly sauté for another 2–3 minutes. Add the 
juice from one small lemon  and toss to coat.
To serve, slice the seitan into strips and plate with the string beans.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 258Error Tolerances in Baking 
In pastries and cakes, the error tolerance  in measurement—the amount you can be off by 
and still have good results—is much tighter than in many breads and savory dishes. Even 
small changes in the ratios between flour, water, sugar, and fat will cause large changes in 
how some baked goods turn out.
Without enough water, glutenin and gliadin won’t properly form gluten, which is good for 
scones, biscuits, and pie shells but bad for higher-gluten goods like bread. But too much 
water also creates problems: bread will end up with large air pockets and cakes won’t set 
correctly and will collapse in on themselves.
Likewise, if you add less shortening than intended for something like a cookie or pie crust, 
more gluten can form and give you a tougher pie shell. If you use too much shortening, 
though, doughs won’t rise as much and will turn out short ; that’s how shortbread  got its name.
Consider the ingredients for the following two double-crust pie dough recipes.
Joy of Cooking Martha Stewart’s Pies & Tarts
Baker’s % Weight Volume Ingredient Baker’s % Weight Volume Ingredient
100% 240g 1 ¾ cups flour 100% 300g 2 1/8 cups flour
60% 145g ²/₃ cup shortening – – – (no shortening)
11.25% 27g 2 tablespoons butter 76% 227g 1 cup butter
25% 59g ¼ cup water 19.7% 59g ¼ cup water
0.8% 2g ½ teaspoon salt 2% 6g ½ tablespoon salt
– – – (no sugar) 2% 6g ½ tablespoon sugar
The numbers in the first and fifth columns are “baker’s percentages, ” which normalize the quantities relative to the 
quantity of flour. Among other things, this makes it easy to compare differences between recipes.
Comparing these two recipes, you can see that the ratio of flour to  fats ranges from 1:0.71 
to 1:0.76, and the Joy of Cooking  version calls for a higher percentage of water.
However, butter isn’t the same thing as shortening. Butter is about 13–19% water and ~1% 
milk solids; shortening is only fat. With this in mind, look at the recipes again. The Martha 
Stewart version has 76g of butter (per 100g of flour), for about 64g of fat. Joy of Cooking ’s 
version, with shortening and butter, has 69g of fat per 100g of 
flour. The quantity of water is also roughly equal between the two 
once the water present in the butter is factored in.
If you’re following a recipe that doesn’t give a weight for flour, 
you’ll need to guess how many grams of flour per cup the writer 
intended. If the recipe came from the US, try using 140 grams as a 
starting guess; if it’s of European origin, try 125 grams.When following recipes with tight 
error tolerances—usually pastries, 
rarely breads— always use a digital 
weight scale . This one change in your 
approach to baking will have the 
biggest impact on how things turn out.
Error Tolerances in Baking 259
Double-Crust Pie Dough
There are two types of pie doughs: flaky and mealy. 
Working the fat into the flour until it is pea-sized and 
using more water will result in a flakier dough well 
suited to prebaked pie shells; working it until it has 
a cornmeal-like texture will result in a more water-
resistant, mealy, crumbly dough that’s better suited 
for uses where it is filled with ingredients when baked.
This recipe makes enough dough to cover both the 
top and bottom of a pie, called a double crust . If 
making an open pie, this’ll make two pie bottoms—
you can save one in the fridge for a few days.
Following the quantities for either recipe on page 
258, measure the flour, salt, and optional sugar 
into a mixing bowl or the bowl of a food processor. 
Cut the butter into small cubes (½” / 1 cm) and 
add. If using shortening, add that as well.
If your kitchen is warm, chill the bowl in the freezer 
for 15 minutes to buy some thermal insurance. You 
don’t want the butter to melt as you work; that 
would create a less flaky, tougher pie shell.
If you have a food processor, pulse the ingredients 
in 2-second bursts while slowly pouring in the 
water, adding just enough water for the dough to 
combine. Continue pulsing the dough until the 
ingredients hold together.
If you don’t have a food processor, use the 
backside of two forks, one in each hand (or a 
pastry cutter, if you have one!) to break up the 
butter into the flour, adding water as necessary 
until the ingredients are combined.Once the dough is at a coarse sand- or pebblelike 
consistency, dump it out onto a floured cutting 
board, divide it into two roughly equal piles, 
and press them into two round discs, one for the 
bottom of the pie and the other for the top.
Using a rolling pin, roll a disc of dough out into 
a sheet, and then fold it over on itself and roll it 
out again, repeating a few times until the dough 
has been compressed and holds together. Transfer 
to a pie tin and fill per pie recipe.
Prebaked Pie Shell
Some pies, such as lemon meringue pie (see recipe 
on page 411), call for the pie shell to be prebaked. 
To prebake a pie shell, also called blind baking , roll 
out the dough and transfer it to your pie tin or 
mold, line with a sheet of parchment paper, and fill 
with pie weights. (You can use rice or beans; the 
parchment paper will prevent them from sticking to 
the dough or flavoring it.) Don’t skip filling the pie 
shell with weights! They prevent the dough from 
sliding down the edges of the pie tin during baking.
In a preheated oven 
set to 425°F / 220°C, 
bake the pie shell for 
15 minutes. Remove 
pie weights and bake 
for another 10–15 
minutes, until the 
shell is golden brown.
Parchment paper 
filled with dried 
beans or rice will 
prevent the sides 
of a pie shell from 
sliding down 
while baking.
I hate  the taste of 
uncooked flour; it burns 
the back of the mouth. If 
you’re not sure whether 
your pie dough is done, 
err on the side of leaving 
it in longer.
No rolling pin? A wine bottle or even a 
tall, straight glass will work in a pinch. 
Cover the dough with plastic wrap 
and roll away.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 260Jim Lahey on Baking
PHOTO CREDIT: SQUIRE FOX
Jim Lahey is widely known for 
popularizing the “no-knead” bread 
method, which he chronicled in his book, 
My Bread: The Revolutionary No-Work 
No-Knead Method  (W. W. Norton, 2009). 
He received the James Beard Foundation’s 
Award for Outstanding Baker in 2015.
What brought you into baking?
Visiting Italy in my youth, I was exposed 
to food. All the ideas I had about good 
food were shaken to the core by this 
seemingly insular country that had 
region-by-region great food traditions. 
When I was able to eat this amazing, 
good-enough-on-its-own bread, it lit 
a fire in me and got me excited about 
figuring out how to make it. The breads 
of Rome at that time were amazing; 
there still were an enormous number of 
older practitioners of baking. Whereas 
today, most of the bakers in Rome 
rely on refrigeration to get a decent 
end result. I’m of the nonrefrigeration 
school.How would you compare American 
and Italian culture in terms of their 
approaches to food and baking?
We’re an extremely heterogeneous 
society with different cultures and 
different traditions. We have foods that 
aren’t necessarily based on a particular 
tradition. If you looked at the gazillion 
locally produced “artisanal” foods or the 
popularity of different cultures’ cuisines, 
we are a bunch of “other.” I grew up with 
Italian neighbors sharing their family 
meatball recipe, so I’ve got my memory 
of making meatballs with my Irish-
American mom. We have hamburgers 
in the States, but who owns the 
hamburger?
It’s amazing how much food has 
changed in the last few decades.
Part of it is the Internet and part of it 
is global travel. If you want to see how 
a loaf of bread is shaped, you can go 
online and watch thousands of videos. 
Granted, watching a video without 
some reference to what it’s supposed 
to be like doesn’t mean you’re going to 
succeed at making a loaf of bread.
Let’s talk about bread. What do 
you mean that you’re part of the 
nonrefrigeration school?
Well, obviously we need some form of 
cooling to store and ferment foods. I 
prefer, in my practice of making bread, 
not to refrigerate the dough after 
it’s been mixed so it’s not taking up 
valuable real estate in the refrigerator.So it’s more pragmatic, as opposed 
to the way it changes the flavor of 
the dough?
Yeah. It’s true if you hold the dough at a 
colder temperature during the various 
stages of fermentation, you’re going 
to coax out certain flavor profiles that 
you might miss at room temperature. 
Refrigeration gives you the convenience 
of being able to get it right more often 
than not, but you’re not really learning 
about how things ferment. I view the act 
of making bread as a practice, like yoga 
or a martial art. If you’re making bread 
and you’re doing it at room temperature, 
you have a working knowledge; an 
intuitive sense of what temperature 
range the dough needs to stay within.
The wonderful convenience of dry 
yeast and of the no-knead method 
is that it just doesn’t matter whether 
you have that knowledge. What you 
gain from practicing it is the first 
step of understanding the power of 
fermentation.
Y our no-knead bread that Mark 
Bittman wrote about in the New 
Y ork Times got so many people into 
their kitchens to make bread.
It was magical because they didn’t 
have to have this notion of what that 
archetypal loaf of bread is, of what you 
might see made in the Mediterranean 
countryside.
Let’s talk about the variables in 
baking bread that someone at 
home might be missing.
Temperature plays a significant role. I 
see it with how much yeast I need to Error Tolerances in Baking 261At the end of the day, we’re going to 
look at the end product as eaters. If you 
go to any supermarket, it’s not like they 
have particular strains of wheat. They 
have stacks of wheat and you don’t 
know where the grains came from, nor 
do you know the mills.
I always say: it’s not the wheat that 
makes great bread, it’s the knowledge 
of the baker. You can have the best 
wheat in the world and still make very 
low-quality bread. And you can have 
what one might consider the worst 
commercial flour in the world and be 
fantasizing that there’s some little farm, 
“it makes me think of the hillsides in 
France.”Since no-knead bread relies on time 
for the gluten to form, can one split 
the difference between no-knead 
and standard kneading for some 
sort of “low-knead” bread?
If you look at French baking, after you 
combine the ingredients together, it 
refers to this idea. The dough has been 
allowed to absorb water and smell and 
begins to awaken, and you introduce 
the salt as a functional conditioner 
for the dough. Éric Kayser has long 
promoted the low-knead method, 
where the dough isn’t kneaded 
intensively.
There’s a lot of mumbo-jumbo 
mythology around what people think. use and the length of time. I currently 
don’t have great heating in my bakery. 
In wintertime, for a batch of bread 
which involves yeast, I might have to 
put as much as 6 grams in for every kilo 
of flour. In the summertime, and this 
is all on the same formula, I can use a 
quarter of a gram!
There’s also change of insular properties 
of the dough. When you make dough, 
it’s not a liquid and it’s not a solid; it’s 
a viscous mass somewhere between 
a solid and a liquid. It has particular 
properties, a certain stickiness, 
cohesion, viscosity. But as it begins 
to ferment and become a sponge, its 
insular properties change dramatically. 
In winter, if you’re doing a large batch 
of dough, like 30 kilos, you’ll notice a 10 
to 15 degree [5 to 8°C] difference from 
the outside of the blob to the center 
of the blob. I have to forecast what the 
weather is going to be in order to chart 
the course of the fermentation!
What differences, in your 
experience, would you expect 
to see between no-knead and 
kneaded bread?
If there’s any pigmentation in the 
wheat, a no-knead dough will retain 
the pigmentation. So you will actually 
see a crumb that’s maybe yellow or 
pinkish or brownish, depending on the 
type of wheat you use. If you knead the 
dough mechanically, the introduction 
of oxygen through the kneading 
process will create a lighter color from a 
bleaching effect. If you do a side by side 
of kneaded dough and an unkneaded 
dough, you can see it pretty clearly. 
Texturally, a no-knead bread has a 
looser, less defined crumb structure.No-Knead Bread
Mix everything in a large mixing bowl until the dough is shaggy, about 
15–60 seconds. Cover and let rest at room temperature for 12–24 hours.
Place either a medium-sized cast iron pot or Pyrex or ceramic bakeware 
in your oven with the lid on and preheat to 500°F / 260°C.
Weight Volume Baker’s % Ingredient
450g 3 to 3¼ cups 100% Flour
350g 1½ cups 78% Water
8g 1¼ teaspoon 1.8% Salt
~2g ½ teaspoon – Instant yeast
While the oven is heating, transfer the dough onto a surface 
dusted with flour, wheat bran, or cornmeal. The dough should be 
almost stringy, clinging to the bowl as you dump it. Fold a few 
times and shape into a boule (a round loaf). Transfer the dough 
onto a generously floured cloth towel and proof until roughly 
doubled in volume, about another hour. Using the towel, flip and 
dump the risen dough ball into the preheated bakeware and cook 
with the lid on for 30 minutes. Take the lid off and bake until the 
crust has a brown chestnut color, about another 15–20 minutes.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 262Yeast
We’ve talked about how flour and water create gluten, and how wonderful gluten is for 
trapping air, but how do we actually get the air in there to begin with? Biologically based 
leaveners—primarily yeast, but also bacteria for salt-rising breads—are surely the oldest 
method for generating air. Presumably, a prehistoric baker first discovered that a bowl of 
flour and water left out overnight (much to the annoyance of whoever was washing the 
dishes) would ferment. Bread was so critical in the Roman Empire that a representative of 
the baker’s guild had a seat in the senate. Agriculture has been involved in politics for a 
long, long time. Using yeast in baking goes back even further.
Yeast is a single-celled fungus that consumes sugar and other sources 
of carbon and creates carbon dioxide, ethanol, and other byproduct 
compounds. All three of these make yeast useful: carbon dioxide gives 
lift, ethanol sterilizes and preserves beverages, and the byproducts 
give sourdough breads their distinctive flavors. Over the years 
we’ve “domesticated” many strains of yeast by selective breeding: 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae —more simply called baker’s yeast —is 
used in baking; other strains are useful in beer production (usually 
Saccharomyces pastorianus , named after Louis Pasteur—lucky guy).
Before domestication of yeast, bread makers would have relied on any ambient yeasts 
present in their environment, saving and sharing successful strains. Not that the “roulette 
gambling method” of picking your yeast is recommended when you’re working in your 
kitchen—leaving a bowl of unseeded dough out has a decent chance of ending up poorly, 
with a foul strain of yeast generating unpleasant-tasting sulfur and phenol compounds, 
or possibly worse. This is why you should add a starter strain: providing a particular strain 
ensures that it will dominate any other yeasts that might be present in the environment. (If 
your breads rise too quickly—you’ll know by loaves failing to rise and being porous—cut 
back on the amount of starter you use.)
Like any living critter, yeast prefers to live in a particular temperature zone, with different 
strains preferring different temperatures. Baker’s yeast works best at room temperature 
(55–75°F / 13–24°C). Other strains used in cooking, primarily for brewing (lagers and steam 
beers), prefer cellarlike environments of around 32–55° F / 0–13°C. Regardless of where your 
culinary adventures take you, keep in mind the temperature range that the yeast you’re 
using likes. Too cold, and the yeast will slumber and hardly rise; too hot, and it’ll die.There’s nothing magical about the 
strains of yeast we use, other than someone taking notice of their flavor and thinking, “Hey, this one tastes pretty good; I think I’ll hang on to it!” Friendship bread—the “chain letter” of yeast—has been passed around for decades.
Yeast 263
Check Your Yeast!
If you notice  that your doughs aren’t rising as expected, give your yeast this quick 
health check:
1. Measure out 2 teaspoons (10g) of the yeast and 1 teaspoon (4g) of sugar into a 
glass and add ½ cup (120 mL) of lukewarm water (100–105°F / 38–40°C). 
2. Stir and let rest for 2–3 minutes. 
3. After the yeast rests, you should see small bubbles forming on the surface. If you 
don’t, your yeast is dead—time to head to the store.
In baking, this is called proofing  (not to be confused with bench proofing , or allowing 
the shaped loaf to rest before baking). If you’re using active yeast, you should always 
proof the yeast in order to soften the hard shell around the yeast granules.
When proofing yeast, use lukewarm water. If the water is below 100°F / 38°C, an 
amino acid called glutathione  will leak out from the cell walls and make your dough 
sticky.
Don’t be worried about too-hot tap water killing your yeast, unless your tap water is 
hotter than it’s supposed to be! Yeast actually dies somewhere above 130°F / 55°C, 
so too-hot water from the tap shouldn’t kill the yeast; it just slows it down. You can 
confirm this by proofing your yeast with your hottest tap water; it’ll just take a little 
longer for the yeast to do its thing.
Proofed yeast will bubble up and foam (left); dead yeast will separate out and not foam (right).
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 264
Bread—Traditional Method
If you’ve never made bread before, a simple loaf is 
easy enough to make, and perfecting it will keep 
you busy for many years. This is one of those recipes 
that’s worth making several days in a row, making 
one change at a time to understand how your 
changes impact the final loaf.
In a large bowl, whisk to thoroughly combine:
 1½ cups (210g) bread flour
 1½ cups (210g) whole wheat flour
 3 tablespoons (25g) gluten flour (optional)
 1½ teaspoons (9g) salt (2 teaspoons if using 
kosher or flake salt)
 1½ teaspoons (4.5g) instant yeast ( not active 
dry yeast)
Add:
 1 cup (240 mL) water
 1 teaspoon (7g) honey
Stir ingredients just to incorporate—maybe 10 
strokes with a spoon—and allow mixture to rest 
for 20–30 minutes, during which time the flour 
will absorb the water.
After the dough has rested, knead it. You can do 
this against a cutting board, pressing down on 
the dough with the palm of your hand, pushing 
it away from yourself, and then folding it back up 
on top of itself, rotating the ball every few times. 
I sometimes just hold the dough in my hands 
and work it, stretching it and folding it, but 
this is probably unorthodox. Continue kneading 
the dough until it passes the “stretch test”: tear 
off a small piece of the dough and stretch it. It 
shouldn’t tear; if it does, continue kneading.
Form the dough into a ball and let it rest in the 
large bowl, covered with plastic wrap (spray the 
wrap with nonstick spray to avoid it sticking to the dough), until it doubles in size, normally 
about 4–6 hours. Try to store the dough someplace 
where the temperature is between 72°F / 22°C and 
80°F / 26.5°C. If the dough is kept too warm—
say, if you’re in a hot climate, or it’s too close to a 
heating vent—it will double in size more quickly, 
so keep an eye on it and use common sense. 
Warmer—and thus faster—isn’t necessarily better, 
though: longer rest times will allow for better 
flavor development.
After the dough has risen, give it a quick 
second kneading, called punching down , which 
is really more of a quick gentle massage to work 
out any large gas bubbles and redistribute any 
undeveloped regions. You can optionally add in 
nuts, herbs, or other flavorings at this point. Form 
the dough into a tight ball, coat it with a light 
dusting of flour, place it on a pizza peel (or piece 
of cardboard), cover it with plastic wrap again, 
and allow it to rest for another hour or two.
Yeast produces both acetic and lactic acids at 
different rates depending upon temperature, so 
different rising temperatures will create different 
flavors. This is why the ideal rising temperature is 
between 72°F / 22°C and 80°F / 26.5°C.
If kept too cold, the dough will be tough and flat 
due to insufficient gas production, and the final 
loaf will have uneven crumb, irregular holes, and a 
too-dark, hard crust.
On the other hand, dough risen in a too-warm 
environment will be dry, lack elasticity, and break 
when stretched, and the final loaf will have sour-
tasting crumb, large cells with thick walls, and a 
pale/whitish crust.
Yeast 265
While waiting for the dough to bench-proof, place 
a baking stone in your oven and set it to 425°F / 
220°C. (Ideally, you should keep a baking stone 
in your oven all the time—see page 35. If you 
don’t have one, use a cast iron griddle or cast iron 
pan, flipped upside down.) Make sure that the 
oven is fully heated before baking. A full hour of 
preheating is not unreasonable.
Just before transferring the dough to the oven, 
pour a cup or two of boiling water into a baking 
pan or cookie sheet and set it on a shelf below 
the baking stone. (Use an old cookie sheet; the 
water may leave a hard-to-clean residue on it.) 
Alternatively, you can use a spray bottle to squirt 
the inside of the oven a dozen or so times to 
increase the humidity, taking care not to hit any 
light bulb inside (it can shatter).
With a serrated knife, lightly slash the top of the 
loaf with an “X” and then place it into the oven. 
Bake until the crust is golden brown and the loaf 
gives a hollow sound when rapped on the bottom 
with your knuckles, about 30 minutes. In theory, 
you can check for doneness using an instant-
read thermometer; the internal temperature 
should be around 210°F / 98.5°C, which is the 
temperature at which starches in flour break down 
(see page 206 for more about starch gelation). 
Theory doesn’t work out so well here, though, 
because the loaf needs to reach a certain dryness 
as well. Checking temperature will only help you 
prevent undercooking by making sure the dough 
is at least hot enough. (I suppose weight would 
work, if you had a heat-safe balance scale…) In 
practice, you’ll be better off learning to sense 
when it’s done baking: appearance and the way 
the loaf sounds when held and thumped with your 
knuckles can tell you more.
Allow the bread to cool for at least 30 minutes or 
so before you slice it; it needs to cool sufficiently 
for the starches to set.Notes
• Try adding rosemary, olives, or diced and 
sautéed onion during the second kneading. For 
a savory-sweet bread, use only bread flour and 
add some large chunks of bittersweet chocolate 
or dried fruits.
• For a slightly more complicated method, try 
starting with a sponge: a prefermentation of 
flour, water, and yeast that allows for better 
flavor development. Instead of adding all the 
flour and water together at the beginning, mix 
half of the flour (210g) with 2/3 (160 mL) of the 
water and all of the yeast (4.5g), and allow 
that to rise until bubbles start to form on the 
surface and the sponge starts to fall. Once this 
stage is reached, mix the sponge up with the 
rest of the water (80 mL), add the rest of the 
flour (210g) and the salt (9g), and allow the 
mixture to rise per the earlier instructions. 
Why does bread go stale?
While the exact science of what causes bread 
to go stale is still unknown, a couple of different 
mechanisms are reasonable suspects. One thought 
is that, upon baking, starches in flour convert to 
a form that can bind with water, but they slowly 
retrograde after baking and in doing so release the 
water, which then gets absorbed by the gluten, 
changing the texture of the crumb. Then there’s 
the crust, which draws away some moisture from 
the middle of the bread, causing the texture 
of the crust to change. Regardless of the exact 
mechanism, storing bread in the fridge speeds up 
these changes in texture while freezing does not, 
so keep your bread at room temperature or freeze 
it. Toasting bread raises it above the temperature 
at which starches gelatinize, reversing some of 
these changes, so if you have stale bread, toast it to 
revive it.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 266The Four Stages of Yeast in Cooking
You’ve just added starter yeast to your bread 
dough. What happens next?
1. Respiration. A cell gains and stores energy. 
No oxygen? No respiration. During this stage, 
the yeast builds up energy so it can reproduce 
and also generates carbon dioxide (CO2). 
2. Reproduction. The yeast cell multiplies via 
budding or direct division (fission) in the 
presence of oxygen. Acidic compounds get 
oxidized during this stage, with the quantity 
and rate depending upon the strain of yeast, 
resulting in different pH levels in the food.
3. Fermentation. Once the yeast has utilized 
all the available oxygen, it switches to the 
anaerobic process of fermentation. The 
cell’s mitochondria convert sugar to alcohol 
and generate CO2 (“yeast farts”!) and other 
compounds in the process. You can control 
the level of rise in doughs by controlling how 
long the dough ferments.
4. Sedimentation. Once the yeast is out of 
options for generating energy—no more 
oxygen and no more sugar—the cell shuts 
down, switching to a dormant mode in the 
hope that more oxygen and food will come 
along some day.
While each yeast cell goes through these stages, 
different cells can be in different stages at the 
same time; that is, some cells can be reproducing 
while others are respiring or fermenting.
Baker’s yeast comes in three varieties: instant, 
active dry, and fresh. The instant and active dry 
versions have been dried to make them form a 
protective shell of dead yeast cells surrounding some still-living cells. Fresh yeast—also called 
cake yeast  because it is sold in a compressed cake 
form—is essentially a block of the yeast without 
any protective shell, giving it a much shorter shelf 
life (well, fridge life). Cake yeast is good for about 
two weeks in the fridge, whereas instant yeast 
is good for about a year and active dry yeast is 
good for about two years in the cupboard. Instant 
yeast and active dry yeast are sometimes stored 
in the refrigerated section of the grocery store. If 
you purchase a large package of instant or active 
dry yeast (much more economical than the small 
packets!), store it in a resealable container in 
either your fridge or freezer.
Instant and active dry yeast are essentially 
identical, with two differences. First, active dry 
yeast has a thicker protective shell around it. 
This gives it a longer shelf life, but it also means 
you must soak it in water before use to soften up 
the protective shell. The second difference is that 
the quantity of active yeast cells in active dry 
yeast is lower than in instant yeast, because the 
thicker protective shell takes up more space: when 
a recipe calls for 1 teaspoon (2.9g) of active dry 
yeast, you can substitute in ¾ teaspoon (2.3g) of 
instant yeast, although a one-to-one substitution 
is generally just fine.
Instant yeast is the easiest to work with: add it 
directly into the dry ingredients and mix. Unless 
you have reason to work with active dry or cake 
yeast, I recommend using instant yeast: less 
work, plus it works faster than active dry yeast. 
Remember to store your yeast in the fridge!267
Yeast Waffles
Baker’s yeast contains a number of enzymes, one 
of which, zymase, converts simple sugars ( dextrose 
and fructose) into carbon dioxide and alcohol. It’s 
this enzyme that gives yeast its rising capabilities. 
Zymase doesn’t break down lactose sugars, though, 
so doughs and batters made with milk will end up 
tasting sweeter. This is why some bread recipes call 
for milk and why foods like yeast waffles come out 
with a rich, sweet flavor.
At least two hours in advance, but preferably the 
night before, measure out and whisk together:
 1¾ cups (420 mL) milk (whole, preferably)
 ½ cup (115g) melted butter
 2 teaspoons (10g) sugar or honey
 1 teaspoon (6g) salt (table salt—not the 
kosher or flaky type)
 2½ cups (350g) all-purpose flour
 1 tablespoon (9g) instant yeast ( not active 
dry yeast)
 2 large (100g) eggsCover batter and store at room temperature. Make 
sure to use a large bowl or container with enough 
headspace to allow the batter to rise.
Briefly stir the batter and then bake in your 
waffle iron per the manufacturer’s instructions.
Notes
• In baking, use table salt, not kosher or flake 
salt, because finer-grained salt will mix more 
uniformly into the batter.
• Try using honey, maple syrup, or agave nectar 
instead of sugar, and try substituting whole 
wheat flour or oat flour for half of the all-
purpose flour.
• If your waffles come out not as crispy as you 
like, toss them in an oven preheated to 250°F 
/ 120°C—hot enough to quickly evaporate out 
water, cold enough to avoid caramelization and 
Maillard reactions.
The Quest for Great Pizza
How can a book called Cooking for Geeks  not have a spread on pizza? Regardless of whether 
or not you identify as a geek, pizza is as much fun to make as it is to eat. You should learn 
to make it. Really. The stuff you can get delivered to your door is far, far inferior to what you 
can make at home. There’s a time for a tomatoey, cheesy slice of pizza—usually 
around 2 a.m. on a weekend. The rest of the time, though? A well-lived life 
includes relishing the nuances of great, homemade pizza.
First, the pizza dough. While you can buy pizza dough 
at your grocery store, I get better results when 
I make dough from scratch, and this is the way 
my dad taught me. I’m so keen on making your 
own pizza dough that I’ve included two different 
recipes: a simple no-knead version on page 271, 
and the yeast-free recipe on page 286 for the 
impatient (trust me, I understand).
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 268Second, the oven. Oven temperature determines how the pizza’s crust will set up. Place 
your baking stone on a middle rack, and then preheat your oven to 375°F / 190°C for a 
doughier crust or at least 450°F / 230°C for a crispier one. (See page 370 for high-heat pizzas.)
Par-bake your dough.  Par-baking isn’t part of most pizza recipes, but I’m a fan. By cooking 
the dough first, you avoid the risks of soggy dough and burned toppings.
1 Sprinkle a large cutting board with flour. 
2 Take 1 pound (450g) of the dough and form it into a ball using your hands, knead -
ing and folding it. The dough should be just slightly sticky, but not so much that it 
actually remains stuck to your hands. If it’s too sticky, dredge the dough in flour.
3 Continue to work the dough until it reaches a firm consistency and has good elas -
ticity when stretched.
4 Work the dough into a flat, round disc, and then roll it into a circle or rectangle.
5 Transfer the pizza dough to the oven, carefully picking it up and laying it onto the 
baking stone (use a pizza peel or sturdy sheet of clean cardboard if needed).
6 Let the pizza bake for 3–5 minutes, until the dough has set. If the dough puffs up 
in one place, use a chef’s knife to poke a small hole in the bubble and then use the 
flat side of the knife blade to push the puffed portion back down.
7 Remove the par-baked pizza from the oven and set it back onto your cutting board.
Toppings.  Add sauce and toppings. Choosing these is the art of pizza: it is a blank canvas 
upon which you can paint whatever flavors you’re craving. Some general thoughts:
• You can’t go wrong with a thin layer of tomato sauce and some slices of good 
mozzarella, topping it with basil leaves after baking.
• If you’re out of tomato sauce, anything from a thin coating of olive oil to a white 
cheese sauce will work (see Béchamel Sauce on page 105).
• For toppings such as onions and sausage, sauté them before placing them on 
the pizza. Cooking the dough and toppings separately removes all the headache 
of trying to get everything to cook at the same time, leaving just three goals: 
melting the cheese (assuming you’re using some) to fuse the ingredients together, 
browning the edge of the crust, and browning the top surface of the toppings.
Cooking.  Finish cooking by transferring the dressed pizza into the oven and baking it until 
the pizza has begun to turn golden brown, about 8–12 minutes. When in doubt, overcook 
it: a beautifully browned crust (I didn’t say blackened) looks and tastes great.Yeast 269to do it on the grill. I tried to wrap my 
oven in aluminum foil to keep all the 
heat in. Then I moved to a new house 
and I had an oven with a cleaning cycle. 
I didn’t really know what a cleaning 
cycle was. I had never had an oven 
with a cleaning cycle, but I ran it and 
I realized that it was basically just 
incinerating the contents. It was like, 
“Aha, I’ve got to get in there!” So that’s 
where the whole idea of clipping the 
lock came from.
I threw up this website (now at http://
www.varasanos.com/PizzaRecipe.htm ). 
I really didn’t think too much about it. 
For a year and a half the counter was at 
about 3,000 and in a day it jumped from 
3,000 to 11,000 and crashed my server. 
I realized that people were pounding 
that page and pretty much from that 
day forward I started to get email. That’s 
what started me down the whole tunnel 
of thinking about giving up the software 
stuff and going into pizza.
In the process of learning how to 
do your pizza, what turned out to 
matter more than you expected, 
and on the other side, what turned 
out to matter less?
Well, clearly what mattered less was the 
flour. Everyone is looking for the piece 
of equipment or secret ingredient that 
they can buy which will all of a sudden 
transform their pizza into something 
great. It’s not that. This is one of the 
things I realized early on. There is no 
magic bullet. If you look at the top five 
pizzerias on my list, you’ll see they use 
five different ovens: gas, wood burning, 
coal burning, electric, and believe it or 
not, an oil burning oven. Not only do 
they use different fuels, they’re different Jeff Varasano on PizzaPHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF JEFF VARASANO
Jeff Varasano moved from New York 
to Georgia, where a lack of New 
York–style pizza drove him to years of 
experimenting—to the point where he 
clipped the lock on his oven so that he 
could bake pizza in a super-hot oven 
set to its cleaning cycle (see page 370). 
He eventually quit his job as a C++ 
programmer and opened Varasano’s 
Pizzeria in Atlanta.
How did you go from C++ 
programming to making pizza?
I moved from New York to Atlanta. Like 
a lot of people transplanted from the 
Northeast, I started to seek out the best 
pizza. A lot of places claim to be like 
New York, and you go there and you’re 
like, “Hmm, have these guys ever been 
to New York?” So I started to bake at 
home. At first I would just call up all of 
my friends and say, “Look, I’m making 
pizza tonight. It’s going to be pretty 
terrible, but why don’t you come try it?” 
And it really was pretty bad.
I started experimenting. I did all the 
flours. I experimented with different 
methods of heating my oven. I tried shapes, they’re different temperatures; 
some bake their pizza for two minutes, 
some seven. So what is it then? The 
answer is that it’s an art; it’s everything 
all together at that one moment. That’s 
what I realized, learning the basics 
and the fundamentals, you come into 
style and artistry and that’s much more 
difficult to define. It’s not going to be a 
single secret.
A lot of geeks who are learning to 
cook get hung up on the very small 
details and miss the big picture 
of just getting in there and trying 
something and playing with it.
Yeah. I’ve always been an experimenter. 
But I’ve always had sort of a different 
way of approaching problems. I don’t 
make very many assumptions about the 
way things should be done. Most people 
assume that knowing how things should 
be done is the best way, so they keep 
struggling within a very small circle, 
whereas I have a tendency to just try a 
much wider variety of things that may 
work and may not work.
So when you get stuck on one of 
these problems even though you’re 
working in a wider circle, how do 
you go about getting unstuck?
That’s an interesting question. Let me 
deviate from that slightly and then I’ll 
come back. Most people are familiar 
with the scientific method, which is 
holding everything exactly the same 
and changing this one thing. This 
reminds me of people trying to do one 
side of the Rubik’s Cube. Most of the 
good methods don’t involve getting 
any side. That’s the last thing you do. 
So people get stuck because they 
don’t want to toss in the towel on the 
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 270up and I put it in my front yard and 
used it. So now I’m ready to launch 
the restaurant and I’m going to all my 
suppliers looking for oregano. Thirty-
three oreganos later, I’m still sitting here 
saying none of them tastes like the one 
that I grew in my garden.
You don’t realize that there is a 
difference to be worked on, but that’s 
when you’re caught with your guard 
down. The oregano that I really, really 
like is a year away from production 
quantity so now I’m experimenting; 
maybe there’s a better way to dry the 
oreganos that I have. If I get a fresh 
one, maybe I can dry it differently and 
maybe the drying process will give 
me something closer to what I want. 
So now I’ve gone down the tunnel 
trying five, six, or seven ways of drying 
it—heated drying using a dehydration 
machine that blows a fan and a little bit 
of heat over it using dehumidifiers and 
all these different things.
So it sounds like your method for 
overcoming this is to try a lot of 
different things?
It really is, and you know it’s funny 
because I like to say, well, how do you 
know? I tried everything and a lot of 
people think, wow, it’s amazing you 
figured this out! People think there is 
some sort of secret magic, but the 
problem is that when you get 
to the end of what’s known, 
when you get to the end 
of engineering, you’re 
left with hunch and 
trial and error, but 
those carry you 
much further than 
people often 
give them 
credit for.in the end the results are not going to 
be a set of independent things, they’re 
going to be a set of interdependent 
things.
In the first stage of working a problem 
or trying to master a skill, you find that 
everything seems totally dependent 
and that’s when you have the least 
power. The next stage is to make things 
independent and to break things down 
and classify them. The whole idea is 
to segment things into finer and finer 
individual techniques. The ultimate 
stage is learning how to reconnect all of 
those parts that you separated out and 
now reorganize them into something 
where the pieces are interdependent 
rather than a collection of things that 
are independent.
I am at the middle stage myself, so 
I don’t quite see how all the pieces 
fit together. For example, if we don’t 
leave the heater on in the restaurant, 
then the dough warms up overnight 
at a different rate than it did a couple 
of days ago. I think, well, there really 
doesn’t seem to be that much 
difference but I know there was that 
two-degree difference, so I’ll correct 
for it. I’ll think I’m back where I started, 
but I am not. And then sometimes you 
don’t even know what’s different and 
then you just literally scratch your head. 
In a year it will be obvious what was 
different.
Can you give me an example?
One of the ingredients I had given 
pretty minimal thought to—and didn’t 
realize how important it was—was 
oregano. I have a little herb garden in 
front of my house and I grow some 
oregano. I didn’t like the strain I had. 
One day I found a better sample in 
an abandoned herb garden. I dug it progress they think they’ve made so 
far. So if you want to make it past one 
level, you may have to scrap your whole 
methodology and just start over. And 
you see that with pizzas.
Art begins where engineering ends. 
Engineering is about taking what’s 
known and carrying it to its logical 
conclusion. So what do you do when 
you have exploited everything you 
know, but you want to go to the next 
level? At that point, you have to start 
opening your mind up to completely 
random ways of thinking through 
something. That might involve taking 
multiple steps at a time. It might be 
that you don’t abandon one thing, but 
you have to abandon five things.
As an example using pizza, as soon 
as I switch flour, I can’t just keep the 
same hydration because if I change the 
flour then I may also have to change 
the water, or the dough may have a 
different consistency. Well, guess what, 
when I increase the hydration then 
the heat penetration into the dough 
is going to be slower because more of 
that water has to boil off. So now all 
of a sudden I might have to change 
the oven temperature, too. I’d love to 
conduct a controlled experiment that 
would conclude that Flour B is better 
than Flour A, holding all other variables 
constant. But in the real world such a 
test is somewhat meaningless. This is 
why it’s an art.
This makes a lot of sense. I think 
a lot of geeks out there would say 
that this would be a multivariate 
approach to finding one of these 
optimal points of pizza recipes and 
techniques.
That’s right. And you have to work on 
the underlying forces and begin to 
understand them independently, but 
Yeast 271
Pizza Dough—No-Knead Method
There’s a lot more to making great pizza than the dough—see page 267 for ideas on how 
to use this dough. This makes enough dough for one medium-sized pizza with the crust 
rolled thin. You’ll probably want to multiply these quantities by the number of people 
you’re cooking for.
Weigh into a large bowl or container:
 1 1/3 cups (185g) flour
 1 teaspoon (6g) salt
 1 tablespoon (9g) instant yeast
Using a spoon, mix together so that the salt and yeast are thoroughly distributed. 
Add:
 ½ cup (120 mL) water
Mix in the water using the spoon so that the flour and water are incorporated.
Cover the bowl or container with plastic wrap 
and let it rest on the counter for six hours, 
preferably longer. When ready, transfer the 
dough to a floured cutting board and gently 
stretch the dough out, pushing it into either a 
rectangular or circular pizza shape from the 
center. For a more rustic crust, leave the edge 
thicker and handle it minimally to leave more 
air pockets in the dough. For a thinner crust, 
roll the dough out. Follow standard pizza making instructions from this point on. 
You can mix the ingredients together at breakfast time, before running off to your 
day job or wherever, and the dough will be ready by the time you get home. It’s 
the same principle as the no-knead bread (see page 261): the glutenin and gliadin 
proteins will slowly crosslink on their own.
Note
• If you want to experiment, order some sourdough yeast culture (which is actually 
a culture of both the well-known sourdough strain of yeast and the bacteria 
Lactobacillus ). The ratio of yeast to bacteria in the dough will impact the flavor. 
You can control that ratio by letting the dough mature for some amount of time in 
the fridge, where yeast will multiply but bacteria won’t, and some amount of time 
at room temperature, where the bacteria will contribute flavors. 
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 272Bacteria
Bacteria are used in all sorts of food—yogurt, kimchi, cheese, chocolate—and bacteria can 
generate gas, so it’s not that far of a leap to wonder how to create bacteria-leavened foods. 
Alas, using bacteria as a leavening agent is downright rare.
The only recipe I’m aware of is salt-rising bread, possibly named from the use of a mound 
of warm salt to keep a bowl warm overnight in cooler climates. Salt-rising bread used 
to be popular in some Midwestern communities and was literally prized: the Iowa State 
Agricultural Society awarded one Mrs. M. L. Harding of Des Moines $5 for her salt-rising 
bread in 1889. (The last state fair I went to featured deep-fried Twinkies slathered in 
strawberry jam for $5—how times have changed!)
Leavening relies on the bacteria Clostridium perfringens  to generate hydrogen for lift. While 
the idea of  flammable bread is oddly appealing, the problem for me is C. perfringens : it’s the 
same bacteria that causes millions of cases of foodborne illnesses annually. To be fair, there 
are multiple strains of C. perfringens , and no illnesses have been linked to salt-rising bread. 
Researchers checked a few samples for relevant toxins and found nothing, attributing the 
lack of toxins to the particular strain, but also noted “the very real possibility” that other 
batches could contain the wrong strain. If you do want to give it a try, search online for 
Harold  McGee’s article “The Disquieting Delights of Salt-Rising Bread. ”
Of course, bacteria show up elsewhere in baking bread all the time: lactobacillus  is what gives 
sourdough bread its distinctive flavor, with different species creating different flavors based 
on the byproducts they generate during fermentation. Lactobacillus  has other benefits, too: it 
reduces the potential for mold growth in the baked loaf and improves the nutritional aspects.
Making sourdough bread is easy enough: add sourdough starter and water to whatever 
flour you like, and knead away. Making the sourdough starter, though, takes longer. 
Sourdough starter—sometimes called mother dough —is commonly created by gambling 
on the wild bacteria and yeast in your environment. Mix equal parts by weight of water 
and flour in an open container, cover with cheesecloth or a towel to keep flies out while 
allowing air to flow, stir twice daily, 
start feeding a few tablespoons of 
flour and water after a few days. After 
a week, you should have something 
that smells like sourdough; if not, 
try again. This “ wild fermentation” 
method usually works, and I greatly 
respect the tradition and culture 
(pardon the pun) that it comes from 
and the practitioners who use it.Sourdough Starter
There is a small chance that the strain of bacteria that settles into a wild 
starter won’t be safe—it needs to produce enough acetic acid to drive the pH low enough to prevent other bacteria from cohabitating. Using good strains of Lactobacillus and commercial yeast removes that risk.
Mix together 2 cups (500 mL) lukewarm water, 1 teaspoon (5g) 
yeast, 1 tablespoon (12g) sugar, and ¼ cup (60g) plain yogurt (with live cultures) and then knead in 2 cups (280g) of bread flour. Stir a few times daily, following the wild fermentation method.
Baking Soda 273Baking Soda
While yeast allows for the creation of many delicious foods, it has two potential drawbacks: 
time and flavor. Commercial bakers with high volumes and those of us with limited time 
to play in the kitchen can’t always afford to wait for yeast to do its thing. Then there are the 
flavors and aromas generated by yeast, which clash with the flavors in something like a 
chocolate cake. The simplest answer to these problems is baking soda:
A bicarbonate (HCO3–) that’s bound with a sodium atom (related compounds use 
potassium or ammonium to similar effect). When added to water, the bicarbonate 
dissolves and is able to react with acids to generate CO2.
Anyone who’s done the science fair project of using vinegar and baking soda to make a 
volcano can tell you that the mixture generates a whole lot of gas really quickly (along with 
a whole lot of mess). But in the kitchen, baking soda remains one of the bigger mysteries for 
bakers. How is it different from baking powder? How do you know which one to use?
The standard answer goes something like: “Baking soda reacts with acids, so use it only 
when your ingredients are acidic. ” As simple explanations go, this covers most of the cases 
in cooking. But baking soda is more complicated—it also reacts with itself under heat—and 
worthy of a brief digression into the chemistry. I promise this’ll be short.
The baking soda you buy in the store is a specific chemical: sodium bicarbonate, NaHCO3. 
Without something for sodium bicarbonate to dissolve into, it’s an inert white powder. 
Upon getting wet—any moisture from any ingredient will do—the sodium bicarbonate 
dissolves, meaning that the sodium ions are free to run around separately from the 
bicarbonate ions.
The sodium in sodium bicarbonate is just there to transport the bicarbonate 
to your food. It does make the food slightly saltier, incidentally, which is 
why industrial food manufacturers will sometimes use things like potassium 
bicarbonate: potassium is good for you, and this avoids the sodium for people on 
a low-sodium diet.
This is where the alkaline and basic nature of things comes in. Most of us are familiar with 
the pH scale (the H stands for hydrogen; it’s unclear what the p stands for; “power” and 
“potential” are the best guesses). The pH scale is a measure of the amount of available 
hydrogen ions in a solution. Chemicals that affect the number of hydrogen ions can be 
classified in one of two ways:
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 274Acids (pH below 7)
Proton donors—chemicals that increase the number of hydronium ions (H3O+; the 
hydrogen binds with a water molecule) in the solution
Bases (pH above 7)
Proton receivers—chemicals that bind with hydronium ions, reducing their available 
concentration in a solution
Baking soda’s bicarbonate ion has an interesting property  called amphotericity : it can react 
with either an acid or a base. In the kitchen, very few things have a basic pH—egg whites, 
maybe your tap water in some situations, and that’s pretty much it—so you can safely 
ignore baking soda’s ability to react with bases and just think of it as something that reacts 
with acids. 
In a glass of pure water with a spoonful or two of baking soda, there’s not much for the 
bicarbonate ions to interact with, so they just float around and taste generally nasty. But 
if you were to add a spoonful of  vinegar—which contains acetic acid—to that glass, the 
bicarbonate ions would react with the acetic acid and generate carbon dioxide. Depending 
upon the amount of bicarbonate you started with, after you added the vinegar to the glass 
it would be in one of three states (none of which involves being half full or half empty): 
• Bicarbonate ions still available; no acetic acid ions available
• No bicarbonate ions available; acetic acid ions still available
• Neither bicarbonate nor acetic acid ions freely available
In baking, it’s this last state—a neutral balance—that you 
want to reach. Too much baking soda can leave food with a 
soapy, yucky taste. Not enough baking soda will leave food 
slightly acidic (which is okay) but miss out on possible lift 
(which is probably not okay—your food will be flat). To get the 
“just right” state, I’ll repeat one of my favorite quotes: “Dosage 
matters!”
Obviously, we don’t bake “baking soda and water”; take a sip of baking soda in water 
sometime if you wonder why. Baking soda is usually called for in recipes that also use more 
acidic ingredients: fruit juices, buttermilk, molasses. Sugar and flour are slightly acidic, but 
not enough to normally merit much baking soda. (We’ll get to baking powder in the next 
section.) If you make substitutions in a recipe—say, you don’t have buttermilk so you use 
regular milk in its place—pay attention to the corresponding change in pH. In the case Baking soda doesn’t need an acid to 
generate carbon dioxide; heat will do it, too. Boil some water and toss in a spoonful of baking soda. The sodium bicarbonate will break down and foam up.
Baking Soda 275of buttermilk, you’d need to add one tablespoon (15 mL) of white vinegar or lemon juice 
for every cup (240 mL) of milk (and reduce the amount of milk by a tablespoon); this will 
provide the acids necessary for the baking soda to react with. Of course, you’ll be missing 
the pleasantly tangy flavor of the buttermilk, but at least you won’t be eating flat waffles! 
How much baking soda to use depends on the pH of the ingredients in your dish. Short of 
testing the pH (see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/ph-tester/ ), experimentation is the 
easiest way to work out the ideal ratio: increase the amount of baking soda in your recipe 
until you get the desired lift or can taste the baking soda. If you’re still not getting enough 
lift at this point, switch to adding baking powder. This balancing act between acids and 
baking soda isn’t a problem with baking powder; the ratio of acids to bicarbonate in the 
powder is preset by the manufacturer, as we’ll see in the next section.
Molasses
Baking SodaSugarFlour
Orange Juice ButterButtermilk
Lime JuiceMilkApple
Mango (ripe)Egg YolkVinegar
Tomato
Bases Acids
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
(Concentration of hydrogen ions as compared to distilled water)1,000,000 100,000 10,000 1,000 100 10 1 1/10
Knowing the pH of your ingredients will help you understand when to use baking soda.
Why do some recipes call for sifting ingredients?
Sifting used to be necessary to remove 
husks, bugs, and whatever else ended up 
in flour, but those days are long gone. And 
weighing ingredients removes the need to 
deal with density differences. Sifting does 
aerate flour and quickly mixes in other dry 
ingredients, both of which can be done 
more easily by whisking. If you do need to 
sift—say, to really mix cocoa powder and 
flour—you can use a strainer over a bowl.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 276
You’re probably expecting a cute explanation 
about baking soda and vinegar, but that would be 
first base: sodium bicarbonate is a base (saturated 
in water, it has a pH of 8.3), and every fifth 
grader knows that combining baking soda with 
white vinegar (~5% acetic acid) causes an acid-
base reaction that generates carbon dioxide, 
sodium acetate, and water.
The thing you might not know about baking soda 
is that it also reacts with itself . When baking 
soda gets hot enough, it’ll undergo thermal 
decomposition , which means exactly what it 
sounds like: breaking down under heat. In the 
case of sodium bicarbonate, it decomposes to 
carbon dioxide, water, and sodium carbonate (a 
second base). But how hot is hot enough? That’s 
what we’re going to investigate.
First, grab these supplies:
• Baking soda (sodium bicarbonate): about  
2/3 cup (150g)
• Aluminum foil
• Felt-tip marker to label 
the aluminum foil
• Digital scale with 1 gram 
precision or better 
Here’s what to do:
We’re going to bake baking soda at five different 
temperatures to measure how the weight changes. 
In science lab lingo, the independent variables  
we’re looking at are the weight of baking soda, 
temperature, and time, and the dependent variable  
is the change in weight.1. Make five aluminum foil “sample containers”:
a) Tear the aluminum foil into 5” × 5” (12 cm 
× 12 cm) squares. 
b) Fold the edges of each square up, making 
a miniature pan that’s about 4” / 10 cm 
square and ½” / 1 cm high.
2. Using the marker, label the five sample 
containers with the temperatures listed 
in the data table. You can do just two of 
these, if you like. Or you can add in more 
temperatures, in which case I’d suggest trying 
anything between 170°F / ~80°C and 500°F / 
260°C.
3. Record the weights of the empty sample 
containers—they should be just about 1 
gram—so that you can subtract the weight 
of the sample containers after baking the 
samples.
4. Weigh out 30 grams of baking soda into each 
of the sample containers. (After you put the 
sample container on the scale, hit the “tare” 
button to zero out the weight.) Record the 
exact weight of baking soda you measured 
in the data table. If you don’t have a digital 
scale, use 6½ teaspoons of baking soda, which 
is about 30 grams.
5. Bake the baking soda! Set your oven to one of 
the temperatures, wait for the oven to heat, 
and then bake the sample on a cookie sheet 
for exactly 15 minutes. Remove the sample 
from the oven, allow it to cool for a few 
minutes, and then weigh the sample.
Data tableoptional,  
but handy
optional, but this 
experiment is easier 
with a scale
Feel free to split this step up between a couple of people, each 
person taking a different temperature in the range between 
200°F / 90°C and 400°F / 200°C, and reporting back the 
next day.Lab: Getting to Second Base with Baking Soda
Baking Soda 277
Investigation time!
How does the weight change based on 
temperature? Plot your data, showing the 
percentage change by temperature. (I’ll start you 
out with 150°F / 65°C: 0% change in weight.)
As temperature goes up, what do you notice about 
the percent change? 100°F
35°C300°F
155°C200°F
95°C400°F
205°C30%
0%10%20%
Oven temperature 150°F  
65°C200°F  
95°C250°F  
125°C300°F 
155°C350°F  
175°C400°F 
205°C
Weight of empty 
sample container1.01g
Weight of baking soda 
(or teaspoons of baking 
soda) before baking30.09g
Weight of sample container 
(or teaspoons of baking 
soda) after baking31.10g
If weighing: weight of baking 
soda after baking (subtract 
the empty weight from 
the after-baking weight)30.09g
Percentage change of weight 
(if using teaspoons, record 
the percentage change in 
number of teaspoons)0%Lab: Getting to Second Base with Baking Soda
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 278
Buttermilk Pancakes
Given time, yeast and bacteria generate flavors 
that we often find pleasant. But what about those 
times when you’re craving that taste right now—
or at least, sometime this morning? You can take 
a shortcut by using buttermilk, which has already 
been munched on by bacteria.
Whisk together to combine thoroughly:
 2 cups (280g) bread flour
 5 tablespoons (60g) sugar
 1½ teaspoons (7g) baking soda
 1 teaspoon (5g) salt
In a separate bowl, melt:
 ½ cup (115g) butter
In the same bowl as the butter, add and whisk 
together:
 2½ cups (610g) buttermilk (lukewarm; this 
will keep the butter melted)  
 2 large (100g) eggs
Mix the wet ingredients into the dry, stirring 
with a whisk or spoon to combine. Cook on a 
griddle or nonstick frying pan set over medium 
heat (if you have an IR thermometer, 325–350°F / 
160–175°C) until golden brown, about 2 minutes 
per side.
Notes
• Normally, you can make a buttermilk substitute 
by adding 1 tablespoon (15g) of vinegar or 
lemon juice to 1 scant cup (240g) of milk. 
This will adjust the pH to be roughly the same 
as that of a cup of buttermilk, but it will not 
create the same texture or thickness, so don’t 
use that substitute for this recipe. If you don’t 
have buttermilk, use regular milk and substitute 
baking powder for half of the baking soda.
• You don’t need to butter the griddle or pan 
before cooking these—there is enough butter 
in the batter that the pancakes are self-
lubricating—but if you do feel the need, wipe 
any excess butter out of the pan before cooking 
the pancakes. If you have any dots of oil on 
the surface, they’ll interfere with the Maillard 
browning reactions.
• Pull the buttermilk and eggs out of the fridge 
an hour or so before you’re ready to use them, 
to allow them to come up to room temperature. 
If you’re in a rush, you can double-duty a 
microwave-safe mixing bowl: melt the butter 
in it, add the buttermilk, and then nuke it 
for 30 seconds to raise the temperature of the 
buttermilk.
Try using this batter for buttermilk fried chicken. 
Slice cooked chicken into bite-sized pieces, dredge 
them in cornstarch, dip them in this batter, and 
then deep-fry them in vegetable oil at 375°F / 
190°C. The starch will help the batter adhere to the 
chicken. (No cornstarch? Use flour.) For the ideal 
texture, cook the chicken sous vide, as described in 
“Sous Vide Cooking” on page 320.
Baking Soda 279
Spicy Holiday Gingerbread Cookies
Chemical leaveners aren’t always used to create 
light, fluffy foods. Even dense items need some air 
to keep them enjoyable.
In a bowl, mix together with a wooden spoon or 
electric beater:
 ½ cup (100g) sugar
 6 tablespoons (80g) butter, softened but not 
melted
 ½ cup (170g) molasses
 1 tablespoon (17g) minced ginger (or ginger 
paste)
In a separate bowl, whisk together:
 3¼ cups (455g) flour
 4 teaspoons (12g) ginger powder
 1 teaspoon (5g) baking soda
 2 teaspoons (3g) cinnamon
 1 teaspoon (1g) allspice
 ½ teaspoon (2g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (2g) ground black pepper
Sift the dry ingredients into the bowl with the 
sugar/butter mixture. (I use a strainer as a 
sifter.) Work the dry and wet ingredients together 
using a spoon or, if you don’t mind, your hands. 
The dough will get to a crumbly, sandlike texture. 
Add ½ cup (120g) water and continue mixing 
until the dough forms a ball.
Turn out the dough onto a cutting board coated 
with a few tablespoons of flour. Using a rolling 
pin, roll out the dough until it is about ¼” / 0.6 
cm thick. Cut it into shapes using a cookie cutter 
or a paring knife and bake them on a cookie sheet 
in an oven set to 400°F / 200°C until cooked, 
about 8 minutes. The cookies should be slightly 
puffed up and dry, but not overly dry.
Baking gingerbread cookies is, of course, 
a great holiday activity with kids.
Gingerbread Cookie Frosting
In a microwave-safe bowl, mix together with a 
fork or electric beaters:
 3 tablespoons (40g) butter, softened but not 
melted
 1 cup (120g) powdered sugar
 1 tablespoon (15g) milk
 1 teaspoon (4g) vanilla extract
Add food coloring if desired. Microwave the 
frosting for 15–30 seconds—long enough to melt 
it, but not so long that it boils. This will give 
you a frosting that you can then quickly dip the 
cookies into and that will set into a 
nice, thin coating that adheres 
well to the cookies.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 280One-Bowl Chocolate Cake
I have a thing against cake mixes. Sure, commercial 
mixes produce very consistent results—they use 
additives and stabilizers exactly calibrated to give 
the right amount of gluten and balanced for taste—
but even for a quick birthday cake, you can make 
a truly homemade one that actually tastes like 
chocolate without much more work.
Cakes are commonly made using a two-stage method , 
in which dry ingredients are weighed out and 
whisked in one bowl, wet ingredients are whisked in 
a second bowl, and then the two are combined. In 
the streamline  method , all ingredients are mixed in the 
same bowl: first dry (to make sure the ingredients are 
thoroughly blended), then wet, then eggs.
In a large bowl or the large bowl of a mixer, 
measure out:
 2¼ cups (450g) sugar
 2 cups (280g) pastry or cake flour (all-
purpose flour is okay, too)
 ¾ cup (70g) cocoa powder (unsweetened)
 2 teaspoons (10g) baking soda
 ½ teaspoon (2g) salt
Whisk together the dry ingredients, and then add 
to the same bowl, whisking to combine thoroughly 
(about a minute):
 1½ cups (360g) buttermilk—in a pinch, 
substitute 1  2/5 cup (336g) milk and 1½ 
tablespoons (24g) vinegar or lemon juice
 1 cup (218g) canola oil
 1 teaspoon (5g) vanilla extractAdd and whisk to combine:
 3 large (150g) eggs
Prepare two 9” / 22 cm or three 8” / 20 cm round 
cake pans by lining the bottom with parchment 
paper. Yes, you really need to do this; otherwise, 
the cakes will stick and tear when you try to 
remove them. Spray the paper and pan sides with 
nonstick spray or coat with butter, and then dust 
with either flour or cocoa powder.
Don’t worry about the parchment paper covering 
every last millimeter of the bottom of the cake pan. 
Cut a square of parchment paper, and fold it in 
half, then in quarters, and then in eighths. Snip the 
top off the folded paper, unfold your octagon, and 
place it in the pan.
Divide the batter into the cake pans. If you have 
a scale, use it to keep the weights of the pans the 
same; this way, the cakes will be roughly the same 
height.
Bake batter in an oven preheated to 350°F / 
180°C until a toothpick comes out clean, about 30 
minutes. Allow the cakes to cool before turning 
out and frosting. If your cakes sink in the middle, 
either your batter has too much moisture (see the 
baking tips on page 249) or your oven is too cold 
(see the lab on oven calibration on page 36).Baking Soda 281Even professional bakers use toothpicks to check 
doneness. For brownies, check that a toothpick 
inserted 1” / 2.5 cm deep comes out clean; for 
cakes, push the toothpick in all the way.
Notes
• When placing the cake pans in the oven, put 
them on a wire rack in the middle of the oven. 
If you keep a pizza or baking stone in your 
oven (which I always recommend), don’t set the 
cakes directly on the stone; put them on a rack 
above the stone.
• Like buttermilk, baking cocoa powder is 
acidic! Dutch process cocoa powder, however, 
is alkalinized—that is, it has had its pH level 
adjusted, changing it from a pH of around 5.5 
to a pH of between 6.0 and 8.0, depending 
upon the manufacturer. Don’t just blindly 
substitute Dutch process cocoa powder for 
straight-up cocoa powder; some of the baking 
soda will need to be switched out for baking 
powder.Chocolate Espresso Ganache Frosting
In a saucepan over medium heat, heat 1 cup 
(240g) of heavy cream  until it just begins to 
simmer. Remove from heat and add:
 2 tablespoons (30g) butter 
 1 tablespoon (5g) espresso powder (optional, 
but delicious)
 11½ ounces (325g) finely chopped bittersweet 
chocolate (use semisweet chocolate if you 
prefer your cakes on the sweeter side)
  Pinch of salt
Allow ingredients to rest until the chocolate and 
butter have melted, about 5 minutes. Whisk to 
thoroughly combine.
To frost the cake, you can pour the still-warm 
ganache over the cooled cake, allowing it to 
run down the sides. This can get messy; on the 
plus side, it’s a great excuse for eating half the 
ganache.
To create a more traditional frosting, allow the 
ganache to set in the fridge, about 30 minutes, 
and then use an electric beater or mixer to beat 
it until it’s light and fluffy. Coat the top of each 
layer of the cake with the whipped ganache and 
stack them, leaving the sides exposed.
Notes
• Make sure your cake is cool before frosting it; 
otherwise, the hot cake will melt the ganache.
• For a tangier frosting, substitute buttermilk 
for half of the heavy cream. If you’re feeling 
inspired, try adding anything you think would 
work in a truffle. Cinnamon is easy to imagine, 
but why not cayenne pepper or lavender? Or 
infuse the cream with Earl Grey tea?
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 282The Science of Crispy, Chewy Cookies
One of the biggest advantages that home bakers have is time. Commercial products are 
made at least half a day in advance, usually longer, so manufacturers have to come up 
with clever tricks to mimic what happens in your kitchen. What if we could learn those 
manufacturing tricks and try them ourselves?
A freshly baked cookie—“just like Mom used to make!”—is crispy on the outside and chewy in 
the middle. Some enterprising researchers at UC Davis proved this by building an oven inside 
of their MRI machine and then baking cookies in it, using the MRI to scan what happened to 
the water inside the dough as it baked. (I’d love to see the grant application for that one.)
A dozen cookies and MRIs later, the researchers had proof: the edge of the cookie definitely dries 
out—and to a remarkable extent—during baking. After a day or two, however, the moisture 
evens back out and the cookies revert to having a uniform ductile, soft texture, losing that fresh-
baked quality. (And a week later, the sugars recrystallize—that’s how the cookie crumbles!)
Crispy-chewy chocolate chip cookies are incredibly  hard to make, at least commercially. But 
good luck calling up and asking the elves making cookies at any of the large commercial 
manufacturers for tips: these sorts of things are trade secrets, with stories of industrial 
espionage that spy novelists and Jason Bourne would appreciate.  Luckily for us there is one 
place where industry has to spill its secrets: patents. And in this case, US Patent #4,455,333 
(http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/cookie-patent/ ) has the answers.
Each patent includes a background description written to set the stage for the invention, 
and those descriptions can be a great source for a clear summary of “how things work. ” 
From reading a few cookie-related patents, you’ll quickly learn that soft cookies have a 
water concentration of 6% and higher, while crispy cookies are drier. This makes sense—
moisture is a key variable in texture. So how can you control the moisture in your cookies? 
Check out the ingredients listed on packaged crispy cookies as compared to the 
same brand’s packaged chewy cookies. In the brand I checked, cornstarch and 
molasses show up only in the chewy ones.
Crispy cookies are actually the easier of the two to make: create a dough that holds less water, 
or bake your dough longer, and the final product will be drier. To make chewy cookies, you 
have to formulate the dough so that it holds on to more water as it bakes, but you can’t just 
add more water into cookie dough (that’s what causes cookies to flatten out and results in 
burnt, feathered edges). Here are the common ways of making cookies chewier:Crispy
ChewyBaking Soda 283Substitute glucose/fructose-based sugars for sucrose.  
In baking, sugars dissolve in water from eggs and butter. As 
the dough heats up, the sugar water forms a syrup, but—this 
is the key!—different types of sugars will absorb different 
amounts of water (the solutions saturate at different points). 
Sucrose molecules, being roughly twice the size of fructose 
and glucose molecules, don’t create a solution with as much 
water, cup for cup. This means a dough that uses simpler 
sugars will hold on to more water. Lots of white sugar 
(sucrose)? You’ll get crispy cookies. More brown sugar (sucrose, 
glucose, and fructose)? You’ll have chewier cookies. Corn 
syrup? You’ll get even chewier cookies (it’s 100% glucose—
high-fructose corn syrup is different from what you buy at the 
store). Glucose and fructose sugars are monosaccharides —the 
simplest form of sugar—and will keep more moisture in the 
cookie, so any source of those will work.
Add cornstarch.  Cornstarch doesn’t dissolve in cold water, 
but as it heats up it will gelatinize, absorbing water, and 
prevent that water from leaving the cookie as it bakes. 
(Speaking of patents, there’s one that adds a ground-up gel, 
something sort of like Jell-O, into the dough—yet another 
clever trick for chewy cookies.)
Use bread flour.  Gluten, too, will increase chewiness, as its elastic nature means that the 
baked good won’t fracture and break. Using a higher-gluten flour will modestly aid you, 
although it’s not common in chewy dough recipes; there’s a lot of sugar and fat in the dough 
to get in the way. Melting butter affects this variable: the water from the butter, when melted, 
will help with gluten formation (see page 249 for more on controlling gluten).
Bake them for less time.  In addition to making dough that holds on to water better, there’s 
another obvious trick for making chewier cookies: don’t bake the cookies as long! (Chilling the 
dough is a related tactic, but you could just bake them for less time.) I looked at the baking times 
listed for the first six recipes I found online for “chewy chocolate chip cookie recipe”; the average 
bake time was 12 minutes, 20 seconds. “Crispy chocolate chip cookie recipe”? 14 minutes, 55 
seconds—a full 2½ minutes longer! (The average temperatures were only a few degrees off, 
essentially equivalent.)
In reality, chewy versus crispy cookies ends up being a balancing act of all of these tricks, 
along with subtler tactics, such as tweaking the dough’s pH or, depending upon the type of 
cookie, including humectants such as raisins, which hold on to water.Everyone has an opinion about how gooey, 
chewy, or crispy a cookie should be. I’ve 
had one person insist on eating almost-raw 
“6-minute cookies”—baked at 350°F / 180°C 
for 6 minutes—while serious milk-dunkers 
wouldn’t consider anything less than a 
15-minute cookie acceptable. 
As a rough rule of thumb, for a ½-ounce 
(14g) cookie baked at 350°F / 180°C: 
• 7–9 minutes: gooey
• 10–12 minutes: chewy
• 13–15+ minutes: crispy
If your cookies aren’t coming out the way 
you like, in terms of gooey-chewy-crispy, 
change how long you’re baking them. Using 
the same dough, crispy cookies will take 
about 25–30% longer to bake than chewy 
cookies.
If you want really crispy, thoroughly golden 
brown cookies, drop the temperature to 
275°F / 140°C and bake for about 30 minutes.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 284
Patent-Violating Chocolate Chip Cookies
Fortunately for us, that patent (#4,455,333) has expired, 
so the only trouble you’ll run into with these cookies is 
people fighting over who gets to eat the last one!
The average chewy cookie recipe bakes for 12½ 
minutes; crispy cookie recipes usually bake for 15 
minutes. Making a cookie that’s extra-crispy on the 
outside and extra-chewy in the middle can’t be done 
by changing the baking time, because…well, physics. 
The trick to these “crispy on the outside, chewy in 
the middle” cookies is to make two different doughs! 
This idea came to me after reading about a patent 
from the 1980s that uses the same technique. 
Set out two bowls. Label one “crispy” and the 
other “chewy.” In each bowl, measure out:
 ¼ cup (30g) rolled oats
 1 cup (140g) flour
 ½ teaspoon (2g) baking soda
 ½ teaspoon (2g) salt
 ¼ teaspoon (1g) cinnamon
Then, to just the “chewy” bowl, add:
 1½ tablespoon (12g) cornstarch
Using a whisk, mix the dry ingredients in each 
bowl to blend them.
Set out two more bowls, and also label them 
“crispy” and “chewy.” In the new “crispy” bowl, 
add:
 ½ cup (113g) unsalted butter (or better yet, 
shortening)
 1/8 cup (25g) light brown sugar
 ½ cup (100g) white sugar
In the empty “chewy” bowl, add:
 ½ cup (113g) unsalted butter 
 ½ cup (100g) light brown sugar
 ¼ cup (88g) light corn syrupUsing a hand or stand mixer, cream until incorporated 
and smooth each of the sugar-butter mixtures.
To each of the sugar-butter bowls, add:
 1 teaspoon (4g) vanilla extract
 ½ teaspoon (2g) lemon juice
 1 large (50g) egg
Blend until fully incorporated. Add the dry 
ingredients, making sure to add the right dry 
ingredients into the right wet ingredients. Blend 
again to fully incorporate. To each bowl, add and 
then stir to combine:
 1½ cups (250g) bittersweet chocolate chips
 ¾ cup (75g) chopped walnuts
Now, for the patent-violating part: smashing the 
two doughs together in a way that puts the crispy 
dough on the outside of the cookie and the chewy 
dough in the middle.
1. Drop a scoop of the crispy  dough 
onto a lined cookie sheet.
2. Using the back of the scoop or spoon, smash 
the cookie ball in the center to make a cookie 
dough crater, just like making a well in 
mashed potatoes for gravy.
3. Drop a scoop of the chewy  dough inside the 
crater.
Baking Soda 285
4. Mush the two doughs together.
If you like, add a pinch of very coarse sea salt on 
top of each cookie before baking.
Bake at 350°F / 180°C for 10–12 minutes, taking 
care to not overcook them; otherwise, the chewy 
center will come out crispy!
Notes
• If you’re familiar with refrigerator cookies, 
instead of following the two-scoop method, you 
can form a log with the chewy dough in the 
center, wrapped by the crispy dough. This takes 
more work, but gives a more uniform edge on 
the cookie.
• If you don’t have corn syrup and you’re itching 
to try this right now, honey is a potential 
substitute: at 38% fructose, 31% glucose, 
it’s remarkably similar to corn syrup in that 
both are monosaccharides (sucrose is a 
disaccharide). Of course, honey will bring its 
own flavor and color to the cookie, but that 
might be interesting, depending upon the type 
of cookie you make. Crispy-chewy oatmeal 
cookies, anyone?
What happens if you flatten a ball of cookie dough before baking it? Or use fridge- or room-
temperature dough? Play, experiment, and see what happens!
For my cookie recipe, flattening the dough made a size difference only for the crispy dough 
version. Using fridge- versus room-temperature dough didn’t make a difference in size but did 
change the texture.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 286Baking Powder
Baking powder solves the “balancing act” problem I wrote about when describing baking 
soda. By including acids alongside baking soda, baking powder eliminates the need to 
balance the ratio of acidic ingredients:
A self-contained leavening system that generates carbon dioxide in the presence of water, 
baking powders by definition contain a baking soda and acids that react with the baking 
soda.
Because the acids are mixed into baking powder, the types and quantity can be optimized. 
Baking powder, at its simplest, can be made with just one type of bicarbonate and one type 
of acid. Baking powders are typically fancier than this, though. 
Different acids have different rates of reaction and different 
reaction temperatures, so using multiple types of acid creates 
a baking powder that’s essentially time-released. This isn’t 
just clever marketing: in baked goods, if the CO2-generating 
reaction occurs too slowly, you’ll end up with a dense, flat 
product. And if those reactions happen too quickly, the food 
won’t have time to properly set to hold on to the gas, resulting 
in outcomes like collapsed cakes.
Double-acting baking powder—the stuff you’ll find at the grocery store—uses both slow- 
and fast-acting acids to help prevent these types of problems. Fast-acting acids, such as 
tartaric acid (in cream of tartar) and monocalcium phosphate monohydrate, can work at 
room temperature; slow-acting acids, such as sodium aluminum sulfate, need heat and 
time to release CO2. 
As long as the ratio of ingredients in your baked products is roughly correct and you’re baking 
within an acceptable temperature range, baking powder is unlikely to be the culprit in failed 
baking experiments. The different acids used can impart a taste—some people find that baking 
powder made with sodium aluminum sulfate tastes more bitter—so if you’re experiencing an 
“off” taste, check the ingredients list and choose another product accordingly. If you’re seeing 
unexpected results with a commercial baking powder, 
check whether your ingredients are highly acidic. Acidity 
impacts baking powder; more acidic ingredients in a 
recipe will require less baking powder. If that doesn’t 
turn up any suspects, check how long it has been 
since the baking powder was opened. Even though 
commercial baking powders contain cornstarch, which 
absorbs moisture to extend the shelf life, the chemicals 
in baking powder will eventually react with each other. 
Standard shelf life is about six months after opening.Baking Powder Substitute
Mix 2 parts cream of tartar to 1 part 
baking soda. Cream of tartar—potassium hydrogen tartrate—will dissolve in water, 
freeing tartaric acid (C
4H6O6) to react with 
the sodium bicarbonate.
Y east-Free Pizza Dough
This quick-rising pizza dough is especially handy if 
someone has a yeast allergy or if you’re craving pizza in the next hour. Whisk 3–4 cups (420–560g) of flour with 1 teaspoon (6g) of salt and 2 teaspoons (10g) of baking powder. Add 1 cup (240g) of water and knead to create a dough that has roughly a 66–75% hydration level. Let rest for 15 minutes before using.
Baking Powder 287
Cinnamon Raisin Pumpkin Cake
There are two broad types of cake batters:  high-
ratio cakes  (those that have more sugar and water 
than flour—or by some definitions, just a lot of 
sugar) and  low-ratio cakes  (which tend to have 
coarser crumbs). For high-ratio cakes, there should 
be more sugar than flour (by weight) and more eggs 
than fats (again, by weight), and the liquid mass 
(eggs, milk, water) should be heavier than the sugar.
Consider this pumpkin cake, which is a high-ratio 
cake. (245g of pumpkin contains 220g of water—
you can look these sorts of values up in the USDA 
National Nutrient Database, available online at  
http://ndb.nal.usda.gov/ .)
In a mixing bowl, measure out and then mix with 
an electric mixer to thoroughly combine:
 1 cup (245g) pumpkin (canned, or roast and 
purée your own)
 1 cup (200g) sugar
 ¾ cup (160g) canola oil
 2 large (100g) eggs
 1½ cups (210g) flour
 ¼ cup (40g) raisins
 2 teaspoons (5g) cinnamon
 1 teaspoon (5g) baking powder
 ½ teaspoon (2g) baking soda
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (2g) vanilla extract
Transfer batter to a greased cake pan or 
springform pan and bake in an oven preheated 
to 350°F / 175°C until a toothpick comes out dry, 
about 25–30 minutes.Notes
• Try adding dried pears soaked in brandy. You 
can also hold back some of the raisins and 
sprinkle them on top.
• One nice thing about high-ratio cakes is that 
they don’t have much gluten, so they won’t turn 
out like bread, even with excessive beating. 
With a total weight of 920 grams, of which only 
roughly 20 grams is gluten, there just isn’t 
enough gluten present in this cake to give it a 
breadlike texture. There’s also a fair amount 
of both sugar and fats to interfere with gluten 
development.
If you’re making a quick cake like this pumpkin cake as the 
finale to an informal dinner party, try serving it directly on 
a single plate or even a cutting board. Besides lending a 
pleasant casual feel, this’ll mean fewer dishes to wash!
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 288
Tim’s Scones
Tim O’Reilly ( founder of O’Reilly Media and publisher 
of this book) made these scones for me at his home 
when I interviewed him for the first edition. What 
Tim didn’t know was that it was my first time ever 
interviewing someone, so I have fond memories of 
his kindness that warm August day whenever I make 
these scones. Makes about one dozen scones.
In a bowl, measure out:
 2½–3  cups (350–420g) flour (experiment to 
see how much you prefer)
 ½ cup (115g) butter, chilled
Using a pastry blender or two knives, cut the 
butter into the flour. When done, the butter and 
flour should look like small pebbles or peas.
Add and whisk to combine:
 3 tablespoons (36g) sugar
 4 teaspoons (20g) baking powder
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
(At this point, you can freeze the dough for later use.)
In the center of the dough, make a “well” and add:
 ½–1 cup (50–100g) currants (or raisins, if you 
prefer)
 ½–1 cup (130–260g) milk (or soy milk; goat’s 
milk is also great)
Stir dough until you get just shy of a gooey 
consistency. Start with only ½ cup (130g) of milk, 
adding more as necessary until the dough begins 
to hang together. If it gets very sticky, you’ve put 
in a bit too much milk. You can add more flour if 
you’ve gone in with less flour to begin with, but 
it’s better to bake them sticky than to add more 
than a total of 3 cups of flour—the stickiness is 
just a problem for shaping them, since the dough 
sticks to your fingers; too much flour, and they 
can become tough.Prepare a baking 
sheet by lining it 
with parchment paper 
or a Silpat (nonstick 
silicone baking mat). If 
you don’t have either, 
lightly grease a baking 
sheet. (You can just rub 
it with the paper from 
the stick of butter.) 
Using your hands, 
shape the dough into small lumps and space them 
evenly on the baking sheet.
Bake at 425°F / 220°C until the tops are browned, 
about 10–12 minutes.
Serve with jam, and, if you’re feeling piggy, with 
Devonshire cream (whipped cream works, too, 
from one of those aerosol cans, so you can just 
put a spot of it on).
Notes
• You can use a cheese grater to grate the butter 
into the flour. Chill the butter for a few minutes 
so it’s easier to handle.
• Tim freezes the partially mixed dough, adding 
the milk and currants to the dough after 
it’s pulled out from the freezer. (The frozen 
dough has an almost sandlike consistency, so 
you can pull out as much or as little as you 
want.) The benefit of the frozen dough is that 
you can bake scones a few at a time, adding 
just enough milk to bring the cold dough to a 
sticky consistency. This makes for a great quick 
treat, especially if you are the type who has 
unexpected guests occasionally. It’s also in the 
spirit of learning to cook like a pro: nothing 
goes to waste this way, and it’s efficient!
Crumbly scones? Flip the 
scone over and jam the 
bottom side of it instead 
of trying to slice it open.Egg Whites 289Egg Whites
Whisked egg whites are the Styrofoam of the culinary world: besides acting as space fillers 
in cakes, waffles, and soufflés and as insulators in desserts like lemon meringue pie, when 
overcooked, they taste kind of like Styrofoam, too. All metaphors aside, egg whites are much 
more forgiving than many cooks realize. With a little attention spent on understanding the 
chemistry and a bit of experimentation, you can easily master egg white foams.
Whisked egg whites work by trapping air within a liquid, creating a foam : a mixture of 
a solid or liquid surrounding a dispersion  of gas; that is, the gas (usually air) is dispersed 
through the liquid or solid, not in a single big cavity. Bread is a solid foam; whipped egg 
whites are a liquid foam.
Unlike yeast, baking soda, or baking powder, all of which rely on the chemical makeup of 
the food, egg whites hold on to air based on their physical properties. You can’t just add 
mechanical leaveners —typically whisked egg whites, but as we’ll see later, also egg yolks 
and whipped cream—to a dish without considering the impact of the moisture or fat that 
they also add. Adding these types of ingredients can throw off the ratios between flour and 
water or between sugar and fats.
The key to understanding egg whites is to understand how foams themselves work. Whisking 
egg whites turns them into a light, airy foam by trapping air bubbles in a mesh of denatured 
proteins. Since regions of the proteins that make up egg whites are hydrophobic —literally, 
“water fearing”—they normally curl up and form tight little balls to avoid interacting with the 
water. But when whisked, those regions of the proteins are slammed against air bubbles and 
unfold, and as more and more proteins are knocked against an air bubble, they form a layer 
around the bubble and essentially trap it in the liquid, creating a foam that’s stable.
There are a few things that can go wrong in whisking egg whites: fats interfering with their 
formation; overwhisking leading to their breakdown; or leaving them to sit too long, which 
allows water in the foam to drag proteins away as it drains out. These issues won’t impact 
some uses of egg whites. If you’re adding whites into waffle batter, for example, any water 
weeping out from whisked whites will be absorbed by the batter. But in meringues, that 
water will form a puddle around the cookie as it bakes—not good.
Oils, especially from egg yolks or any trace oils in the whisking bowl, prevent egg whites 
from being whisked into as stable a foam because they’re also able to interact with the 
hydrophobic sections of the proteins. While many recipes admonish you to not get a drop 
of yolk in your whites, a very small amount won’t ruin egg whites’ ability to foam—but it can 
change how stable they are before being set by baking. (There’s an old paper that says one 
drop of yolk decreases the potential volume of a foam made from a single large egg white 
from 135 mL to 40 mL—perhaps true in some industrial applications, but when I tried it in my 
kitchen, nothing close to that decrease happened.)
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 290When whisking, take care to not overwhisk. Doing so will cause the formation of smaller 
and smaller air bubbles, which will decrease the flexibility and elasticity of the foam and 
cause it to become more unstable. Egg whites whisked to dry peaks—billowy, almost 
cloudlike shapes on a whisk—won’t expand as much in baked goods; taken too far, they’ll 
become brittle.
There are some culinary tricks for increasing the stability of egg white foams. Some recipes 
call for adding sugar or cream of tartar early in the whisking process. These ingredients 
don’t interfere with the formation of protein-based foams because they don’t interact with 
the hydrophobic sections. Small amounts of acids will even help stabilize the foam and aid 
in baking by increasing the temperature at which the egg white proteins set, allowing for 
more air expansion.
When it comes to working whisked egg whites into other ingredients, like a batter, fold them 
in using a flat spatula, putting part of the foamed egg white on top of the batter and then 
cutting through the mixture and turning up the heavier batter on top of the whisked whites. 
Once the egg whites are foamed up, it takes quite a bit of effort to get them to break down. 
Exposing the whites to fats before whisking can be a problem, but once the eggs are whisked, 
they’re much more resilient. Try whisking an egg white to soft peak stage, then adding ½ 
teaspoon (3g) olive oil and continuing to whisk. It might surprise you how long it takes before 
the oil starts to noticeably interact with the foam, and even then, the foam remains mostly 
stable.
Making the Most of Whisked Egg Whites
Whisked egg whites trap air bubbles inside a tangled net of egg white proteins to create 
an egg white foam, but the way those proteins are tangled and how the whites are used in 
cooking changes how much volume the whisked egg whites can provide.
The physics of egg white foams is fascinating. Foams are colloids, mixtures of different 
substances. We’ll cover these more later (see page 379), but for now, just know there are 
two types: liquid-air foams and solid-air foams. Bread is a solid-air foam; whisked egg white 
is a liquid-air one. It’s the liquid in egg white foams that presents the challenges of great 
whisked egg whites.
Egg white foams have two variables: capacity  (how much air the foam can hold) and 
stability  (how much the volume decreases over time). Capacity and stability are primarily 
determined by the size of the air bubbles, the viscosity of the liquid, and how thick or thin 
the walls between adjacent air bubbles are. How you control these things is another matter.Egg Whites 291Acids and cream of tartar
Just as the pH of egg whites changes how easily boiled eggs peel (see page 193), it also 
changes the volume of egg white foams. Older eggs won’t foam up as much. Adding an 
acid fixes this, but decreases the foam’s stability. Cream of tartar is commonly used because 
of its mild taste (try licking a finger lightly dusted with some; it’ll taste only mildly sour after 
a few seconds); other acids, like citric acid via lemon juice, also work but can impart too 
strong of a taste. Any time a recipe depends on whisked egg whites for volume and you’re 
stuck with older eggs, add a pinch of cream of tartar—1/8 teaspoon (0.5g) per egg white.
Sugar
The liquid in the foam structure slowly drains down due to gravity, so anything that slows 
that drainage increases the stability. Adding sugar makes liquids more viscous but also 
increases how long it takes to whisk whites to optimal volume. If you’re using whisked 
whites in a recipe that calls for sugar, try splitting the sugar between the components.
Water
Adding more water to egg whites decreases viscosity, so it’s no surprise that adding it 
will decrease stability. However, adding water—up to ~40% by weight—will increase 
capacity, which can be useful in quickly cooked recipes.
Choice of bowl
Fats interfere with the development of egg white foams, leading to a smaller capacity 
to hold air. Because different materials retain fats differently, what you whisk your 
whites in can change the results.
Avoid plastic bowls. Plastic is chemically similar enough to lipids that they stick to it and 
are impossible to completely wash away. Whisking egg whites in a plastic bowl reduces 
their volume because of this oil lingering in the bowl. (Of course, it’s fine to whip cream 
in a plastic bowl; more fat isn’t going to interfere with its fat-based foam structure.)
Stainless steel and glass bowls are fine to use. They won’t hold on to problematic fats, 
assuming you’ve washed them well. Some metals, like copper, will react with proteins in 
the egg white—in a good way!—leading to a more stable foam. (The same chemistry that 
makes stainless steel stainless also means it won’t give off any metal ions.) It’s not a subtle 
effect: when I whisk egg whites in a copper bowl, they’re definitely easier to work with. It’s not 
copper specifically: zinc and iron can have a similar effect, although reportedly lead to a red 
tint. In theory any noble metal, even very unreactive ones like silver and gold, should react 
with the sulfur in the egg whites. (Harold McGee investigated this with silver and found good 
results; I have yet to find someone who’s tried it in a gold or rhodium bowl.) Copper bowls are 
expensive, but if you find you’re whipping up egg whites a lot, it’s probably worth breaking 
down and spending the money on one. (If you have a gold bowl, my mailing address is…)
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 292Whisking and Peaks
Which way should you be whisking?
If you’re trying to whisk air into food to create a foam, such as whipped cream or 
whipped egg whites, whisk—by hand!—in an up-and-down circular motion, catching 
and trapping air. If you’re trying to mix ingredients together without necessarily 
adding air, whisk in a flat circular motion. This is especially important for dishes like 
scrambled eggs where incorporating air reduces the quality. Also, when whisking, 
avoid tiny little stirring motions. Get in there like you mean it and whisk some air in 
there!
How do you know when you’re done whisking?
It depends on the recipe. If it calls for soft peaks , the foam should still be supple and 
pliable, but shouldn’t slide off the whisk. If it calls for firm peaks , the foam should 
hold and set its shape; stiff peaks  look the same but should be firmer and glossier 
than firm peaks. Overwhisking will give you dry peaks  that look like fluffy clouds 
and won’t rise as well. I prefer whisking egg whites and whipped cream by hand. 
Why? I’m less likely to accidentally overdo it. 
No Peak 
Foamy stage is the 
ideal time to add 
cream of tartar.Soft Peak 
Best time to add sugar.Stiff Peak  
Good for hard 
meringues.Dry Peak  
Overwhisked; won’t 
rise as well.
Egg Whites 293
French and Italian Meringue
There are two general forms of meringues: those 
in which the sugar is directly added as the egg 
whites are whisked (French meringue), and those 
in which the sugar is dissolved into a syrup before 
being whisked into the egg whites (Swiss and Italian 
meringue—we’ll cover Italian here, but they’re 
similar). The French version tends to be drier (sugar 
is hydroscopic, sucking the moisture out of the 
whites—this is why it increases viscosity) and also 
grittier, and has the benefit of being faster to make. 
The Italian version has a smoother, almost creamy 
texture; it’s great for use as a topping on desserts!
Note that meringues use raw egg whites. You’ll 
want to bake the meringue if you’re concerned 
about Salmonella . The Italian version, even with 
hot sugar syrup, only reaches ~115°F / 45°C when 
being made. Heat-pasteurized egg whites don’t 
whisk well: the pasteurization denatures one of the 
protein complexes supporting the foam structure. 
Extended whisking time can produce a workable 
foam; hopefully pressure-pasteurized egg whites will 
become commercially available someday.French Meringue
In a clean bowl, whisk 3 egg whites  to soft peak 
stage.
Add ¾ cup (150g) sugar —preferably superfine—
one tablespoon at a time, while continuously 
whisking. If using regular sugar, you’ll need to 
whisk longer to make sure the sugar is entirely 
dissolved. To check, roll a little bit of the 
meringue between two fingers (it shouldn’t feel 
gritty).
Italian Meringue
Create a simple syrup by heating ½ cup (100g) 
sugar  and ¼ cup (60g) water  to 240°F / 115°C in 
a saucepan. Set aside.
In a clean bowl, whisk 3 egg 
whites  to soft peak stage. 
Slowly pour in sugar 
syrup while whisking 
continuously, which will 
prevent the hot syrup 
from cooking the 
whites.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 294Meringue Cookies and Coconut Macaroons
Egg whites, when  whisked and combined with sugar, turn into a sweet, airy mixture that 
can be baked as is or folded into heavier bases, bringing a lightness and sweetness to 
them. French meringue cookies are nothing more than egg whites and sugar that have 
spent a little time in the oven. The sugar isn’t just for taste, though; it helps stabilize 
the egg white foam by increasing the viscosity of the water in the foam, slowing down 
how quickly it can drain out. This same effect roughly doubles the amount of whisking 
time needed for the egg whites to reach the same volume as ones not adulterated with 
sugar. The other benefit of sugar is a meringue that’s better able to support the weight of 
anything added into the foam.
To make meringue cookies, start with either the French  or Italian Meringue  
recipe . Optionally, fold into the meringue whatever ingredients you’d like— ground 
almonds , chocolate chips , dried fruit , cocoa powder .
Using a spoon or piping bag, portion the meringue onto a cookie sheet lined with 
parchment paper. (No piping bag? Put a small plastic bag in a mug, fold the edges of 
the bag over the lip of the mug, fill the bag, and then remove it from the mug and 
snip a small corner off.)
Macaroon versus macaron? 
Macaroon is the English spelling for the French word macaron. In English, macaron has 
come to mean a meringue cookie sandwich with a filling. Macaroon is used for the denser versions with heavier ingredients folded in—typically coconut in the United States, and chocolate and dried fruit elsewhere. 
Coconut macaroons are made 
by starting with the meringue 
recipe and adding in coconut. 
Try adding 2 cups (160g) of 
sweetened coconut flakes  and 
spooning the mixture onto a 
lined cookie sheet.
Preheat an oven to 275 F / 140 C; 
or, if you want your macaroons 
slightly browned, 325 F / 160 C. 
Bake the macaroons for 20–30 
minutes. until they freely come 
off the parchment paper.
No piping bag? No problem. Put your filling in a large 
resealable bag and snip off one of the corners. Egg Whites 295
My Favorite Cake: Chocolate Port Cake
One of the great things about this chocolate port 
cake—besides the chocolate and the port—is the 
recipe’s wide error tolerances. Most foam cakes—
those cakes that rely on a foam to provide the air—
are very light (think angel food cake). The reason 
this recipe is so forgiving is that it uses a foam 
without trying to achieve the same lightness.
You’ll need a small saucepan, two clean bowls, a 
whisk, and a round baking pan or springform pan, 
6–8” / 15–20 cm.
In the saucepan (over a burner set to low heat), 
melt and mix together, but do not boil:
 ½ cup (125g) port (either tawny or ruby)
 ½ cup (114g) butter
Once the butter is melted, turn off the heat, 
remove the pan from the burner, and add:
 3 ounces (85g) bittersweet chocolate, chopped 
into small pieces to facilitate melting
Leave the chocolate to melt in the port/butter 
mixture.
In two large bowls, separate:
 4 large (200g) eggs
Make sure to use a clean glass or metal bowl for 
the egg whites, and be careful not to get any egg 
yolk into the whites.
Whisk the egg whites to stiff peaks.
In the bowl with the egg yolks, add:
 1 cup (200g) granulated sugar
Whisk the egg yolks and sugar together until 
thoroughly combined. The yolks and sugar should 
become a slightly lighter yellow after being 
whisked for a minute or so. Pour the chocolate 
mixture into the egg yolk/sugar mixture and 
whisk to thoroughly combine.Using a flat wooden spoon or flat spatula, add 
to the chocolate mixture and fold in (but do not 
overstir!):
 ¾ cup (105g) all-purpose flour
Then fold in the egg whites in thirds; that is, 
transfer about a third of the whisked egg whites 
into the chocolate mixture, mix together, and 
then repeat twice more. Don’t worry about getting 
the whites perfectly incorporated, although the 
batter should be relatively well mixed together.
Grease your cake pan with butter and line the 
bottom with parchment paper to make removing 
the cake from the pan easier. Transfer the mix 
to the cake pan and bake in an oven preheated 
to 350°F / 175°C until a toothpick or knife, when 
poked into the center, comes out clean, around 30 
minutes.
Let the cake cool for at least 10–15 minutes, until 
the edges have pulled away from the sides, then 
remove it from the pan. Dust it with powdered 
sugar (you can use a strainer for this: place a few 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar in the strainer and 
then jog it with your hand above the cake).
Note
• When working with chocolate in baking, don’t 
just substitute, say, 80% bittersweet chocolate 
for a semisweet bar. In addition to differences 
in sugar, the two types of chocolate have 
different quantities of cocoa fat, and recipes 
that rely on the fat level will need to be 
adjusted accordingly.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 296Optimal Cake-Cutting Algorithm for N People
If you  grew up with a brother or sister, you’re 
undoubtedly familiar with the technique for 
avoiding fights when splitting food: one person 
divides it, and the other person chooses. (“You 
can halve your cake, and eat it, too!”) But what to 
do if you have more than one brother or sister?
There is a solution, but it’s a bit more involved. 
Here’s the algorithm for cutting a round cake 
for N people. It’s not perfect—don’t use this 
for negotiating land divisions after minor land 
wars—but when it comes to a table of kids and 
a large chocolate cake, it’ll probably work. (If 
you find yourself cutting cake for hardcore math 
geeks, however, I suggest reading up on the 
literature. Start with “An Envy-Free Cake Division 
Protocol” by Brams and Taylor [ The American 
Mathematical Monthly , 1995] and plan to be at it 
for a while.)
Only one person actually does any cake cutting, 
and that person can either be a cake eater or 
just a referee. Start with the cake in front of 
you, along with a knife and N plates. Proceed as 
follows:
1. Make a first cut in the cake, as normal.
2. Explain that you’re going to hold the 
knife above the cake and slowly move it 
in a clockwise direction, just like someone 
thinking about how big the next slice should 
be. Anyone—including the person cutting the 
cake—can say “stop” at any point to declare 
that he or she wants a piece that size, at 
which point, that’s where you’ll cut the first 
slice.
3. Again, slowly move the knife above the cake 
until someone calls stop.4. Slice the cake and hand the person who 
called stop the new slice. Repeat steps 3 and 
4 with the remaining cake eaters. (To be 
clear, anyone who calls stop is now out of the 
negotiation and doesn’t get to call it again.)
5. When you’re down to the last person, cut the 
cake wherever he or she likes, which may 
leave a leftover piece.
One of the nice things about this protocol (a 
protocol is similar to an algorithm, but allows for 
accepting user input after being started) is that 
it allows people who for whatever crazy reason 
want small slices to get one, and gets them out of 
the way at the beginning, meaning if somebody 
else wants a larger slice than an equal N division 
would allow, that person gets more cake and can 
eat it, too.
If someone is being greedy and wants a too-
big piece, that person will end up getting the 
last slice—which will normally be the largest 
slice. If two or more people end up being greedy 
and never call stop, though, they could allow 
you to reach the end of the cake, in which case 
I suggest eating the remaining part yourself. 
There’s no guarantee that this protocol will 
satisfy everyone—just that the honest actors are 
protected from the dishonest ones.
Egg Yolks 297Egg Yolks
If Eskimos have N words for describing snow, the French and Italians have N+1 words for 
describing dishes involving egg yolks. Egg yolks are used in almost all cultures for many 
purposes, from sticking bread crumbs to fish to adding a shiny gloss to baked goods. What 
might not be evident is that egg yolks, just like egg whites, can also be used to create airy 
foams by trapping air bubbles.
Egg yolks are much more complex than egg whites: they’re ~51% water, ~16% protein, 
~32% fat, and ~1% carbohydrates, while egg whites are only protein (~11%) and water. In 
their natural state, egg yolks are an emulsion : a mixture of two liquids that are immiscible—
that is, unable to mix (think oil and water). Mayonnaise is the classical culinary example. In 
egg yolks, the fats and water are held in suspension by some of the proteins, which act as 
emulsifiers—compounds that can hold immiscible liquids in suspension. For more on the 
chemistry of emulsions, see page 429.
Like egg white foams, egg yolk foams trap air with denatured proteins that form a mesh 
around air bubbles. Whisking yolks won’t form a foam, though; to denature the proteins 
in the yolk you’ll need to use heat. The optimal temperature for egg yolk foam creation is 
162°F / 72°C. Temperatures hotter than that cause the proteins to coagulate, leading to a 
loss of air and affecting the texture.
Extra Leavening
Some recipes rely on more than just one method of incorporating 
air into food. Some English muffins and Chinese pork buns, for 
example, use both yeast and baking powder. Waffle recipes often 
call for both whipped egg whites and baking powder. And some 
mousse recipes call for both whipped egg whites and whipped 
cream. If you find that a recipe isn’t turning out as light as you’d 
like, look to see if other methods of leavening can be added. If a 
recipe doesn’t rely on chemical leaveners, adding a small amount 
of baking powder is usually a safe bet. Or, if the recipe has eggs, 
try separating some of the eggs, whisking the whites, and folding 
the egg white foam into the batter.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 298
Simple White Wine 
and Cheese Sauce
This sauce needs very few ingredients and not much 
in the way of equipment—a whisk, a bowl, and a 
stovetop—making it an easy impromptu dish even 
in an unfamiliar kitchen. (For more on sauces, see 
page 104.)
The only tricky part is preventing the eggs in this 
sauce from getting too hot and scrambling. If you 
have a gas burner, you can manage this by moving 
the saucepan on and off a flame set to very low 
heat. Position yourself so that you can hold the pan 
with one hand while whisking with the other; you’ll 
need to move the pan to regulate the temperature. 
If you have an electric burner, use a double-boiler 
instead: fill a large saucepan with water and place 
the saucepan with the mixture inside it .
In a saucepan, separate 3 egg yolks , saving 
the egg whites for some other dish. Add ¼ cup 
(60g) white wine  and whisk to combine.
Once you’re ready to start cooking, place the pan 
over the flame or in the water bowl bath and whisk 
continuously until the egg yolks have set and you 
have a frothy foam, about two to three times the 
volume of the original. This can take 5–10 minutes. 
Be patient; it’s better to go too slow than too quick.
Add 3–4 tablespoons (15–20g) freshly grated 
Parmesan cheese  (not the powdery stuff in a 
can!) and whisk until thoroughly combined. Add 
salt and pepper to taste, and serve on top of an 
entrée such as fish with asparagus.
Note
• White wine is quite acidic, with pH levels of 
around 3.4 (Chardonnay) to 2.9 (Riesling). 
Since acids help prevent egg yolks from 
coagulating under heat, the wine actually 
helps protect against coagulation. (Pour 
yourself a glass; that’ll help too.)Zabaglione (Sabayon )
This dish is  easy, but it does benefit from a few 
practice runs. Luckily, the ingredients are cheap!
Zabaglione is the dessert equivalent of white wine 
and cheese sauce, made by whisking wine, sugar, 
and egg yolks over low heat; it’s essentially a 
foamy custard, but without the milk. And, like the 
white wine and cheese sauce, this is a great recipe 
to have tucked away in the back of your head.
Measure out ¼ cup (60g) Marsala wine  and set 
aside.
Marsala—a white wine fortified with extra 
alcohol—is traditionally used in zabaglione, 
but you can use other alcohols, such as Grand 
Marnier, Prosecco, or port.
In a saucepan, separate 3 egg yolks , saving the 
whites for something else (meringues!). Add ¼ cup 
(50g) sugar  to the yolks and whisk to combine.
Place pan over heat, following the directions 
for the white wine and cheese sauce. Pour in a 
tablespoon of the Marsala and whisk. Continue 
adding the Marsala a tablespoon or so at a time, 
whisking for a minute between each addition. 
You’re looking for the egg yolks to froth up 
and foam; the heat will eventually set the egg 
yolks to make a stable foam. If you notice that 
the egg yolks are scrambling, quickly pour in 
more of the Marsala to cool the mixture down; 
it’s not ideal, but it’ll prevent you from having 
an entire dish of sweet scrambled eggs on your 
hands. Once the sauce begins to show soft 
peaks, remove from heat and serve.
Traditionally, zabaglione is served with fruit: 
spoon a small portion into a bowl or glass and 
top with fresh berries. You can also store it in 
the fridge for a day or two.Egg Yolks 299
Fruit Soufflé
You’re probably wondering what soufflé is doing in 
the section on egg yolks, right? After all, it’s the egg 
whites that famously give soufflés their rise. I have 
a confession to make: I make my fruit-based dessert 
soufflés by making zabaglione. (I am so never going 
to win a James Beard award.)
Preheat your oven to 375°F / 190°C. Prepare a 
1 quart / 1 liter soufflé bowl—which will hold 
enough soufflé for two or three people—by 
buttering the inside and then coating it with 
sugar (toss in a few spoonfuls, then rotate the 
dish back and forth to coat the side walls).
Prepare the fruit:
Fresh strawberries , raspberries , and white 
peaches  work exceptionally well; wet fruits such 
as pears  can work, but the water may separate 
while cooking, so start with berries. Rinse and 
dry the fruit. If using strawberries, hull them; if 
using peaches or other stone fruits, peel them, 
quarter them, and remove the pits. Reserve about 
½ cup—a small handful—of the fruit for placing 
on top of the cooked soufflé. Prepare a second 
handful of fruit, again about ½ cup, for cooking 
by slicing it into small pieces; cut strawberries 
into eighths and peaches into very thin slices. 
(Raspberries will fall apart on their own.)
Make zabaglione:
Start by making a zabaglione: whisk 3 egg yolks  
with ¼ cup (50g) sugar  over low heat and 
add ¼ cup (50g) of kirsch —cherry-flavored 
brandy—instead of Marsala. (Save the egg whites for whisking.) After adding the kirsch, add the 
fruit that’s been sliced into small pieces and stir, 
thoroughly mashing in the fruit. You don’t need 
to actually cook the egg yolks until they set; 
you’re just looking to stir and whisk them until 
you have a frothy, warm, soft foam. Set aside 
while preparing the egg whites.
Whisk egg whites, fold, and bake:
Whisk the egg whites  to soft peak stage, adding 
a pinch of salt  for taste. Fold the egg whites into 
the fruit base and transfer the mixture to the 
soufflé bowl. Bake in the oven until the soufflé 
has risen and the top is browned, about 15–20 
minutes. Remove and place the soufflé dish on 
a wooden cutting board. Dust the soufflé with 
powdered sugar , place the reserved fruit on top 
(slice strawberries or peaches into thin slivers), 
and serve at once. If you’re in informal company, 
it’s easiest to just set the soufflé in the center of 
the table and hand everyone a fork to dig in.
You can use this same technique with the white wine and 
cheese sauce from the previous page to make a savory soufflé.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 300Whipped Cream
Unlike eggs, in which proteins provide the structure for foam, cream relies 
on fats to provide the structure for a foam when whipped. During whisking, 
fat globules in the cream lose their outer membranes, exposing hydrophobic 
portions of the molecules—you’re literally stripping off part of the surface of 
each microscopic bubble of fat. These exposed parts of the fat globules can then 
either bind with other fat globules (butter!) or pack around an air bubble by 
aligning the stripped region with the air, creating a dense air-filled foam once 
enough of them have been aggregated together.
Another technique for “whipping” cream is to pressurize it with gas and then 
spray it. If you’ve ever used a can of whipped cream from the grocery store, 
you’re “making” whipped cream this way. The gas dissolves into the liquid and 
then, upon spraying, rapidly bubbles out of saturation, foaming up the cream. 
From a structural point of view, whipped cream created this way is entirely 
different from foams created by whisking. Instead of a 3D mesh of surfactants 
holding on to the air bubbles—the “stripped regions” of the fat globules—the 
air bubbles from canned whipped cream are essentially just in suspension. 
Whipped cream from a can will fill about twice the volume, per weight, as 
whisked whipped cream, but it’s also less stable and will collapse—the fat 
globules from the pressurized can presumably are intact. We’ll cover other uses 
of pressure-created foams using cream whippers on page 313.
When working with whipped cream, keep in mind that the fats provide the 
structure. If the cream gets too warm, the fats will melt, so be sure to chill your 
bowl and the cream before whisking.
Percentage of fat in dairy products. If the 
cream doesn’t have enough fat, there won’t be 
enough fat globules to create a stable foam.
Butter
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
PERCENTAGE OF FAT BY VOLUMEDouble CreamMinimum fat level
for cream to whip
Clotted CreamWhipping Cream
Heavy CreamHalf + HalfWhole Milk
Light Cream
Whipped cream from a can 
foams up to twice the volume 
(15 mL expands to 67 mL) 
as hand-whisked cream (15 
mL expands to 34 mL), but 
also collapses over time.
Whipping high-quality 
cream increases its 
volume by about 80%, 
while whipped egg 
whites can expand by 
over 600%!
Whipped Cream 301Making Whipped Cream
You can whisk up whipped cream by hand in less time than it takes to get an electric mixer out. Start 
with a cold bowl (chill it in the freezer for a few minutes, ideally), add either heavy cream or whipping 
cream, and whisk until the cream holds its shape. 
To make Chantilly cream —sweetened whipped cream—add 1 tablespoon (12g) sugar  and 1 teaspoon 
(4g) vanilla extract per 1 cup of heavy whipping cream .
30 seconds: 
still liquid, light 
bubbles.60 seconds: 
still liquid, light 
bubbles.90 seconds:  
thin cream, would 
be great on berries.120 seconds:  
whipped, soft 
peaks. Ideal.150 seconds:  
overbeaten, a little 
buttery flavored.180 seconds:  
whipped butter.
Chocolate Mousse
Compare the following two methods for making chocolate mousse. The egg white version creates a creamy, 
dense mousse, while the whipped cream version creates a stiffer mousse.
Chocolate Mousse (Whipped Egg White Version) Chocolate Mousse (Whipped Cream Version)
In a saucepan, heat ½ cup (120g) of whipping or heavy 
cream  to just below a boil and turn off heat. Add 4 ounces 
(115g) of bittersweet chocolate  that’s been chopped into 
small chunks.
Separate 4 eggs , putting 2 of the yolks into the saucepan and 
all the whites into a clean glass or metal bowl for whisking. 
Save the other yolks for another recipe.
Whisk the egg whites with 4 tablespoons (50g) of sugar  to 
soft peaks. Whisk the cream, chocolate, and yolks together to 
combine. Fold the whites into the sauce.
Transfer mousse to individual serving glasses and refrigerate 
for several hours.
Note
• The egg whites in this are uncooked, so there is a chance of 
salmonella. If you are concerned, use pasteurized egg whites.Melt 4 ounces (115g) of bittersweet chocolate  in a 
microwave-safe bowl. Add 2 tablespoons (28g) of butter  
and 2 tablespoons (28g) of cream,  and whisk to combine. 
Place in fridge to cool.
In a chilled bowl, whisk 1 cup (240g) of whipping or heavy 
cream  with 4 tablespoons (50g) of sugar  to soft peaks.
Make sure the chocolate mixture has cooled down to at 
least room temperature (~15 minutes in the fridge). Fold the 
whipped cream into the chocolate mix. Transfer mousse to 
individual serving glasses and refrigerate for several hours 
(overnight, preferably).
Note
• Try replacing the 2 tablespoons of cream with 2 
tablespoons of espresso, Grand Marnier, cognac, or another 
flavoring liquid.
Air and WaterCooking for Geeks 302David Lebovitz on American and French Cooking PHOTO OF DAVID LEBOVITZ  USED BY PERMISSION OF PIA STERN
David Lebovitz has written several well-
received books on desserts and was 
formerly a pastry chef at the renowned 
Chez Panisse in Berkeley, California, for 
over a decade. His website is at http://
www.davidlebovitz.com .
What was working at Alice Waters’s 
Chez Panisse like for you?
Chez Panisse is a great place to work. 
Money is no object when it comes 
to sourcing ingredients, and it’s a 
great training ground for cooks. The 
restaurant really supports the owners 
and the other cooks, who are very, very 
interested in producing good food. 
Once you’re in that environment, it’s 
hard to leave. You go somewhere else 
and you’re working with a bunch of line 
cooks that just care about who won the 
game last night and how fast they can 
cook the steaks on the grill so they can 
get out and go drink beer.
The whole idea of Chez Panisse is to 
find good ingredients and do as little 
to them as possible. When we had 
beautiful fruit, we would often just 
serve a bowl of fruit or a fruit tart with ice cream; or if we had really good 
chocolate, we would make a chocolate 
cake, but it wasn’t a cake that was 
highly decorated, it didn’t have a lot 
of technical swoops and things. Chez 
Panisse is all about flavor. A lot of the 
fancy stuff doesn’t taste good, so we 
were more concerned with flavor.
I had dinner last night at a fancy 
restaurant. They brought this chocolate 
mousse and there was tapenade on 
the side. Someone was, like, “Olives: 
it would be really cool on the plate!” 
But if someone tasted it? Disgusting. I 
just wanted to go into the kitchen and 
say, “Have you guys tasted this food? 
Because it’s stupid.”
Y ou had worked at Chez Panisse 
for years before taking culinary 
training. What surprises did you run 
across in that culinary training?
I wasn’t expecting things not to taste 
good. I took a course in making cakes in 
France, and I thought, “We’re going to 
make cakes that are delicious.” It actually 
was making mousses with gelatin 
and with fruit purées from the freezer, 
and everything was like sponge cake, 
gelatinized fruit purée, and decorations. 
It was interesting, and I learned 
something, but those skills don’t even 
translate to what I do. Even if you use 
fresh fruit, it’s just not the best way to 
use it. I’m an ingredients-based cook.
I did go to chocolate school and 
that was great; I learned a lot about 
chocolate, how to work with it, how 
to manipulate it. Once again, I’m 
more interested in finding wonderful 
hazelnuts and in rolling them in 
chocolate, rather than opening up a can of hazelnut paste and making 
chocolates out of it.
What would you recommend to 
somebody who wants to learn how 
to bake?
The best thing they can do is just bake. 
The thing about baking is it’s very 
recipe-oriented. If you want to learn to 
make a pound cake, you just make a 
recipe, and the longer you go, the more 
you see how things work, how you can 
change things. You can add an egg yolk 
to make things richer or substitute sour 
cream for the milk in the recipe.
A lot of bakers are very precise, and we 
do have a reputation, especially in the 
professional world. A chef once said 
to me, “Why are you guys all so weird?” 
There are a lot of strange people in 
the pastry world, because we are very 
precise, we do like to go in our own 
little world, and we’re very analytical 
people in general. We think a lot about 
things, whereas a line cook, it’s a lot of 
brawn; it’s big, bold flavors; it’s roasting 
meat; it’s frying vegetables; it’s grilling. 
Those are ways of coaxing flavor out, 
but pastry is a much more delicate 
thing, it demands a lot more care, a lot 
more softer skills.
When you’re working on a pastry, 
how do you go about getting 
unstuck when it’s just not coming 
out the way you want it to?
If you knew how to get out of that, you 
wouldn’t be in there in the first place. 
I develop recipes and write books, so 
I’ll be making things, I’ll make them 
over and over again, and if I’m really 
stumped, I have a decent network of 
people who can help me. I might write Whipped Cream 303overanalyzing the recipe. They’re not 
stupid, it’s just that they’re not, I don’t 
know what… It’s like, “If I let 5% of the 
air out of my tire, can I still drive?” “Yes. 
Better if it’s full.”
Why do you think Americans 
overanalyze recipes?
I think that Americans are in this weird 
space where they want to be told 
what to do. They want an authority 
to tell them that this is the recipe, 
don’t change it, rather than say, “Wait 
a minute, look at the facts!” A recipe 
might say bake a chicken for an hour, 
and someone will write and say they 
baked it for an hour, and it was too dry. 
Well, your chicken was probably four 
pounds instead of six. There’s only so 
much stuff you can put in a recipe.
[My] website was started in 1999, 
when my first book came out, because 
I thought—famous last words—I 
thought it would be a good way for 
people to get in touch with me in case 
they had problems with the recipes. 
You don’t want people saying the 
recipes don’t work; you’d rather have 
them write to you and say, “I made this 
cake and it didn’t work; what did I do 
wrong?”
I have a recipe—actually, it’s in the 
oven right now—for a cake that has 
one egg in the whole cake; that’s the 
only fat in it. Some woman wrote me—
she’s trying to eat less fat—what could 
she replace the egg with? I’m like, one 
egg yolk? That’s 5 grams of fat for 12 
servings. Somebody actually asked that, 
and then I wonder how these people 
go to the bank every day, get their 
driver’s license, pay bills, write a check, 
and work. What’s going through their 
minds?I’m not quite sure I follow you there.
Those kinds of things seem like 
common sense to me. Somebody who 
is concerned about eating an eighth 
or a twelfth of an egg yolk because 
they’re on a low-fat diet? I don’t 
understand that thinking. It’s like saying, 
“I don’t like chocolate; how can I make 
these chocolate chip cookies without 
chocolate?” It’s like, sorry, that’s what it is.
What do you think of people who 
really feel like they need to have 
the most up-to-date technical 
equipment and toys?
Well, that’s an American thing. I go 
back to America and everyone has 
wine refrigerators, and they’re filled 
with Kendall Jackson Chardonnay. If 
you have good wine, you don’t put it in 
one of those refrigerators, because they 
have compressors that shake, which is 
bad for wine. Unless you have a very 
good wine refrigerator that doesn’t 
shake, you’re better off without it. It’s 
funny to see people who have wok 
burners and wine refrigerators and all 
that stuff in their house. A lot of people 
want to have the illusion of cooking; 
they want to have all these bottles of 
olive oil wrapped up on the counter in 
baskets and things, but on the other 
hand, do they really need all that stuff?
It sounds like one piece of advice 
you would give to somebody is to 
not obsess over equipment?
Yes. You don’t need every saucepan in 
the world, you need like three. For me, 
having a mixer is very important; for 
me, having an ice cream machine is 
important. But you don’t need a panini 
grill; you can use your skillet and just put 
a weight on top of it, something like a 
can of tomatoes, and there you have it.to a friend who is a bakery cooking 
professor and say, “I’m trying to make 
persimmon pie; have you ever made it?” 
and he’ll be like, “Oh, persimmons have 
a chemical in there that prevents this 
from happening, and try doing this…” 
Also, a lot of baking is science. If I make 
a cake and I want it to be moister and 
higher, I just have to sit down with my 
calculator and work it out.
How do you know what the formula 
is for working it out?
There are printed formulas, which 
some bakers use. But I’m not so good 
with math. Michael Ruhlman wrote a 
wonderful book on ratios, but my brain 
isn’t wired to think that way. So I just 
make things a million times, until I get 
it right.
So yours is a much more try-it-and-
see approach, as opposed to sitting 
down and trying to figure out the 
optimal formula?
Yeah.
A lot of people are very analytical about 
cooking, and they want to know how 
things work. It’s a different method. 
It’s like a lot of Europeans wonder 
why Americans won’t give up their 
measuring cups and spoons, which is 
a terrible way to cook. It’s inaccurate 
and leads to people doing all sorts of 
weird things. Americans like to hold 
measuring cups and spoons; it makes 
us feel good, so we’re not going to give 
them up. Cooking is a visceral thing; 
a lot of people like to overanalyze 
recipes. They’re like, “Can I make this 
cake without the quarter teaspoon of 
vanilla extract?” and I’m like, “Okay, well, 
think about it, what do you think?” A lot 
of people don’t know, because they’re 
Air and WaterChapter Contents
High-Pressure Situations  ................................ 306
Pressure Cookers  ........................ 308
Cream Whippers  ......................... 313
A Few Low-Pressure Tricks  ............................. 317
Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching  320
Sous Vide Hardware  ..................... 323
Sous Vide Cooking and Food Safety  ....... 325
Cooking Times for Fish, Poultry, Beef, and 
Fruits and Veggies  .................... 329
Making Molds  ................................................ 340How to Make a 500-Pound Doughnut  ...... 344
Wet Separations  ............................................ 347
Mechanical Filtration  .................... 348
Centrifuges in the Kitchen  ............... 351
Drying  ................................. 352
Chilling Out with Liquid Nitrogen and Dry Ice  .361
Making Dusts  ........................... 363
Making Ice Cream  ....................... 363
Cooking with a Lot of Heat  ............................. 367
How to Cook a High-Heat Pizza  ........... 370
Interviews
Douglas Baldwin on 
Sous Vide Cooking,  327
Dave Arnold on 
Industrial Hardware,  358
Nathan Myhrvold on 
Modernist Cuisine,  372Recipes
Indian Moong Dal Khichdi,  311
Pulled Pork Under Pressure,  312
Chocolate Mousse,  315
Foamed Scrambled Eggs,  315
30-Second Chocolate Cake,  316
Dishwasher Poached 
Apples,  326
Beef Steak Tips,  335
48-Hour Braised Brisket or 
Ribs, 336Sugar Cone Bowls for Ice 
Cream,  342
Cake doughnut recipe,  345
Basic White Stock,  350
Crispy Oven Kale Chips,  353
53 Beef Jerky,  354
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice 
Cream,  364
Quinn’s Crème Brûlée,  368Labs
Separation via 
Crystallization (Sugar 
Swizzle Sticks),  3565
WHAT WOULD IT LOOK LIKE IF YOU HAD SUPERPOWERS IN THE KITCHEN? 
You know, if you could slow time down? Or had heat vision? Or could suck all the air out 
of the room? Okay, maybe that last one isn’t so awesome sounding—VacMan?!—but 
interesting stuff happens when you have superpower control over the basic variables of 
cooking. We usually work with the variables of time, temperature, air, and water (discussed 
in the previous two chapters) at moderate values: making a soft-cooked egg in 6 minutes, 
baking pizza at 450°F / 230°C, or churning ice cream at –20°F / –29°C for half an hour. What 
happens when we stray outside these usual ranges? 
Increasing air pressure changes the boiling point of water, speeding up how quickly foods 
cook. Separation techniques and tools from dehydrators to centrifuges change textures and 
flavors in multiple ways. Or consider sous vide  cooking: essentially ultra-low-temperature 
poaching. When upping the variable of time, we have to drop temperature to keep 
time-and-temperature reactions in line. But something fascinating happens: 
as we dial down the temperature, it eventually has to equal the target 
temperature of the cooked food. It becomes impossible to accidentally 
overcook foods. This is amazing!
What if you take temperature beyond the limits of your kitchen 
thermometer? Ice cream made with liquid nitrogen at –320°F / 
–196°C sets in 30 seconds, and it’s great —the water crystals don’t 
form large aggregates, so this method creates the smoothest 
ice cream you’ll ever have. And at 900°F / 480°C, thin-crust 
pizza bakes in under a minute, and it’s delicious! Let’s see what 
techniques and fun culinary creations come out of using 
hardware that lets you play with these variables.Fun with Hardware
   305Cooking for Geeks 306
High-Pressure Situations
As I’ve learned more about food science, I’ve come to realize just how critical water is! It 
impacts cooking in so many different ways: transmitting heat via steam, dissolving trace 
minerals to change how gluten forms and yeast multiplies in breads, and altering textures 
in cookies (chewy or crispy) and dried foods. Water is everywhere .
One water variable that doesn’t change much in the kitchen is its boiling point. Adding 
salt can increase its boiling point by a few degrees, but what could we do if we raised it 
even more? If most heat-related reaction rates in cooking roughly double with every 18°F 
/ 10°C increase, then increasing water’s boiling point from 212°F / 100°C to 230°F / 110°C 
should, in theory, cut braising times in half and cook rice twice as quickly. Raising it again, 
to 248°F / 120°C, would slash cooking times by up to a whopping 75%. And this is exactly 
what happens under pressure.
How much pressure, you ask? There’s a nifty type of science chart called a phase diagram  
that shows a substance’s phase—solid, liquid, or gas—at various pressures and 
temperatures. Here’s one for water at the various temperatures and pressures normally 
found in the kitchen.
A quick primer on how to read this: consider the line at 
14.7 psi (1,013 hPa—that’s hectopascals) equal to one 
atmospheric pressure or what you’d experience at sea level 
on an average day. The freezing point at one atmosphere 
is 32°F / 0°C; the boiling point is 212°F / 100°C. Move that 
line down a little bit to 12.1 psi (834 hPa), equivalent to 
an altitude of 5,280 feet (1,609 meters) above sea level, 
and you’ll see why water boils at 203°F / 95°C in Denver, 
Colorado. Go up to 30 psi (2,070 hPa), and voilà ! Water 
boils at roughly 248°F / 120°C. This is the science behind 
what makes pressure cookers amazing. I know, I know, getting excited by the idea of 
keeping water liquid at a higher temperature may seem strange, but trust me, you’ll love 
what it can do.
What else happens when we increase pressure? Water is more complicated than this simple 
phase diagram suggests, because nothing in the kitchen is a pure substance. Your salt has 
trace minerals in it—probably silica too. Table sugar isn’t actually 100% sucrose; a spoonful 
of it includes ash, proteins, and inorganic impurities. And water, even purified distilled 
water, isn’t actually 100% H2O: there’s gas dissolved in there. With pressure, we can dissolve 
more gas into liquids like water for both fun and useful purposes.Phase Diagram of Water for the Kitchen32°F
0°C20 psi2000 hPa30 psi
10 psi
0 psi1000 hPa
0 hPa
212°F
100°CLiquid
GasSolid
Air pressure 
at sea level
Phase Diagram of Water for the KitchenFood is always mixtures of solids, gases, and 
liquids. (Actually, food is almost always mixtures of 
mixtures, and figuring out how to separate them 
has its own challenges, as we’ll see later in this 
chapter.) We talked about humidity —dissolved 
water vapor in air—in the previous chapter, but 
what do we call dissolved air in water? It’s what fish 
breathe, but we don’t even have a word for it!
Gases dissolve into liquids all the time—
think carbonated drinks, or the small bubbles 
you see when heating water to boil—and 
changes in pressure change how much gas 
can be dissolved. This is known as Henry’s 
Law : essentially, the higher the pressure of 
a gas above a liquid, the more soluble that 
gas becomes. (Huh. There’s no Potter’s Law 
yet. Probably too late; all these laws seem to have 
been named about two centuries ago. The English 
chemist William Henry came up with this one in 
1803.) You can dissolve gases into foods to make 
foams like whipped cream (and Aero chocolate!), 
and you can use a pressurized container to make 
wild things like carbonated fruit.
In the following sections, we’ll take a look 
at how to cook with pressure cookers and 
cream whippers, covering what they are 
and how to use them.
Dropping the temperature of a liquid 
increases  the amount of gas that will 
dissolve into it. If you’re trying to saturate 
gas into a liquid, cool the liquid down first. 
Why does popcorn pop? 
Because of pressure! Popcorn kernels have the 
magic combination of a tough, airtight hull and 
a moist interior (~13% water) that explodes 
when heated. Most grains have this combination: 
amaranth, quinoa, and sorghum also pop. 
Increasing temperature in a fixed 
volume also increases pressure, with 
different results.
Below 300°F / 150°C
As kernels heat up, water 
inside them also heats up. 
Because the water can’t boil—
there’s very little space for the water 
to expand into water vapor—the pressure 
inside the kernel increases.
310–340°F / 155–170°C
Some weak kernels rupture, but 
there’s not enough pressure built 
up to explode the 
kernel’s starches 
out very far, making 
small, not-really-delicious 
popcorn pieces.
350°F / 177°C and up
At 135 psi—nine times 
atmospheric pressure!—the 
kernel’s hull ruptures. With 
the drop in pressure, the water 
inside instantly boils and converts 
to steam, expanding ~1,500-fold and 
dragging the outer 
layer of starches 
along for the 
ride. 
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 308Pressure Cookers
Pressure cookers are like an old-fashioned version of the microwave: a convenient appliance 
that speeds up cooking. Our grandparents used a manual version, essentially fancy pots 
with locking lids that went on the stovetop. Manual versions are still available today—now 
enhanced with safety locks and over-pressure release valves to prevent accidents—and are 
a worthwhile investment for the serious pressure cooker enthusiast. Manufacturers also 
make electric units, which can safely be left unattended and are what I suggest for first-time 
buyers. If you have a tiny kitchen, get an electric unit that has modes for slow cooking and 
cooking rice.
It’s not the pressure itself that changes how foods cook, but the impact of pressure on 
physical and chemical processes. Increasing pressure always increases the boiling point 
of water. In wet cooking methods, the temperature differential between the food and 
the liquid heating it is what determines how quickly the food heats up. (See page 139 for 
more.) Increasing the pressure increases the boiling point of water, but it’s not boiling water 
per se that does the cooking—it’s the larger temperature difference between the higher-
temperature liquid and colder food that results in a faster rate of heat transfer.
How much faster heat will transfer into food depends on the maximum temperature at 
which the liquid can boil. Depending on the make and model, a pressure cooker can increase 
the pressure by 11–15 psi (758–1,034 hPa). There’s no formal standard for how much 
pressure a cooker should operate at, but most recipes are written assuming a high pressure 
of 15 psi (1,034 hPa) and low pressure of 8 psi (550 hPa). ( Underwriters Laboratories won’t 
certify units above 15 psi, which is why you don’t see higher pressures than that.) You will 
need to adjust cooking times based on the pressure at which your model operates!
Pressure increases are relative to your current 
atmospheric pressure, so the maximum boiling 
point of water is based on your current air pressure 
plus the additional pressure your unit adds to it. 
If you live at sea level and have a higher-pressure 
unit, you’ll be able to get water up to 29.7 psi 
(2,048 hPa) for a boiling point of 250°F / 121°C, but 
a mile up and with a unit that only adds 11 psi (758 
hPa), you’ll only raise the boiling point to 236°F / 
113°C. Take a look at this zoomed-in part of the 
phase diagram of water from the previous section, 
cropped to the starting and maximum pressures 
possible in pressure cooking. Add the operating 
pressure of your pressure cooker to the air pressure 
at your elevation to look up how hot (and thus 
how quickly!) your foods will cook.Boiling Point of Water vs Pressure212°F
100°C194°F
90°C230°F
110°C248°F
120°C20 psi2000 hPa30 psi
10 psi
0 psi1000 hPa
Air pressure 
at 5280’ / 1609 mAir pressure 
at 5280’ / 1609 m
0 hPa
Pressure vs Boiling Point of Water
Figure out your starting air pressure, add the 
operating pressure of your cooker, and check the 
boiling point of water for that absolute pressure.High-Pressure Situations 309One fun science comment: Maillard reactions don’t readily occur in most wet cooking 
methods. It’s not that water inhibits the reaction itself; there actually needs to be some water 
present in the food (see page 213). The limiting factor is that water, when used as a source 
of heat, prevents the necessary temperatures from being reached, at least at atmospheric 
pressure. Some combinations of amino acids and reducing sugars will begin to undergo 
Maillard reactions just above water’s normal boiling point. Lysine/glucose, for example, will 
combine at around 212–230°F / 100–110°C in a solution with a pH between 4 and 8, reacting 
much faster at the hotter and more basic ranges. A few novel recipes use this quirk to create 
Maillard reactions in soups using baking soda, but it’s not even a minor part of most pressure 
cooking. Fortunately, Maillard reactions don’t happen too much at the pressures used in 
pressure cooking (you’d need to go to ~70 psi / ~4,800 hPa to really see them). If they did 
happen, foods would have Maillard reactions center-to-edge and taste disgusting—too 
much of a good thing, in this case, gives horrible flavor.
Pros
• Speed! Raising  the boiling point of water from 212°F 
/ 100°C to 248°F / 120°F roughly quadruples how 
quickly culinary reactions can occur, cutting cooking 
times by ~60–70% (it takes some time to heat up 
the food; otherwise, it’d be closer to 75%). Pressure 
cookers are fantastic for cooking slow-cooking grains 
and legumes (rice and lentils in 5–8 minutes instead of 30), beans (30 minutes for 
dry, unsoaked beans to be ready to serve), and higher-collagen meats (ribs, pot 
roast, and pulled pork can all be cooked in under an hour are deliciously easy).
• Electric units are extremely energy efficient, meaning they’re great for summer 
cooking where you want something that’s normally slow-braised for hours—say, 
pulled pork—but don’t want to adds lots of heat to your kitchen.
Cons
• You won’t be able to poke at food while it cooks to adjust seasoning or check if it’s 
done. What goes in the pot at the start is what you’re going to get at the end, as 
when baking a cake. If you’re an intuitive cook, winging it as you go, treat pressure 
cooking as a way of cooking one ingredient that you’ll then use as a component in 
your meal.
• With the faster rate of reactions, overcooking will happen much more quickly. 
It’s better to slightly undercook something and continue cooking it “off pressure. ” 
Take notes on cooking times on your recipes. (Use the low-pressure setting on 
vegetables to avoid overcooking.) Different pressure cookers will run at slightly 
different pressures, so treat times for recipes as starting points and take notes.The French scientist Denis Papin served the 
very first pressure cooker meal way back 
in 1679 to a group of scientists in London, 
calling it a bone digester  and serving bones 
rendered to something like jelly (along with 
cooked meats). Oh, 17th-century British 
cooking…
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 310• Pressure cookers rely on boiling water or steam for transmitting heat—it’s a wet 
cooking method—and trap and condense most of the moisture, making it hard to 
reduce sauces. You may need to reduce the liquids after cooking. On the flip side, 
don’t skimp on the liquid: make sure that you have at least a cup or two of water in 
the unit; otherwise, there won’t be anything to turn into steam and you’ll end up 
burning the bottom of whatever you’re cooking.
Pressure frying uses oil instead of water to cook at even higher temperatures, 
creating crispy, browned outsides and moist interiors on foods like breaded chicken drumsticks. Pressure frying is how Harland Sanders made his original “Kentucky Fried Chicken,” and why it was so successful! Unfortunately, pressure fryers are industrial appliances; there’s no safe consumer version for the home. This is one you don’t want to try hacking: using oil in a standard pressure cooker can melt the sealing gaskets and lead to explosive decompression with hot oil spraying everywhere.
Tips and tricks
• If you want to adapt other recipes to a pressure cooker, think about things that 
normally cook via steaming, braising, or any wet cooking method, and try cooking 
for a third of the suggested time. Make sure not to fill the cooker more than two-
thirds full; some ingredients will expand as they cook, and blocking the release 
valve is bad. If using ingredients that foam while cooking—applesauce, barley, 
oatmeal, pasta—don’t fill the cooker more than one-third full. Be aware that dairy 
curdles under pressure, so add any dairy ingredients after pressure cooking.
• If you have a stovetop unit, you can rinse it under cool tap water to cool it down 
quickly after cooking; this is useful for quick-cooking foods like vegetables or 
polenta where the residual heat would continue cooking them.
• Many electric pressure cookers operate at 12 psi (830 hPa) instead of 15 psi (1,034 
hPa), meaning cooking times for recipes based on the slightly higher pressure may 
need to be extended by 15–20%. Check the manual for the operating pressure, not 
the rated air pressure—manufacturers tend to list the maximum pressures their 
units reach and bury the true pressures at which they cook.High-Pressure Situations 311• Steam vegetables and artichokes using a metal steaming tray to raise them above 
the water level. You can also cook small quantities of food in a small glass or metal 
bowl this way—just remember to pour a cup or two of water into the pressure 
cooker! Don’t use plastic containers in a pressure cooker; they’ll melt.
• Pressure cookers are great for making stock. Save bones from meals in a container 
in the freezer. Once the container is full, transfer the contents to the pressure 
cooker, cover them with water, and cook for 30 minutes. Cool and strain the liquid.
• Try using your pressure cooker to render tallow or lard: toss chopped-up fatty 
meats into a jar, cover them with water, add a cup of water to the pressure cooker, 
and render for about 2 hours. Let the fat cool to a safe-to-handle temperature and 
pour through a strainer.
Indian Moong Dal Khichdi
There are a million ways to make khichdi —an Indian 
dish that mixes lentils and rice with spices. Khichdi  
translates to “mixture,” and that’s exactly what this 
is. Here’s a recipe based on how I first had it, but 
experiment! Try adding other spices, such as fennel 
seeds, cumin seeds, garam masala, or curry powder.
Sauté in a skillet, manual pressure cooker pan, or 
electric pressure cooker on sauté mode:
 2 tablespoons (30g) of cooking oil (e.g., 
butter, olive oil, ghee, or coconut oil)
 1 medium red onion (110g), chopped
 1 tablespoon (5g) coriander seeds (either 
whole or ground)
 1 tablespoon (7g) turmeric powder  
 ½ teaspoon (1g) cayenne pepper
Don’t fill a pressure cooker more than halfway full 
when cooking rice or grains; they expand.
Add and stir to coat, and transfer to pressure 
cooker if necessary:
 ½ cup (80g) white basmati rice
 1 cup (190g) moong dal (yellow split mung 
beans) or red lentils
 6–12  (18–36g) garlic cloves, peeled
 1–2 tablespoons (6–12g) ginger root, peeled 
and diced
Add 3 cups (710 mL) of water  and close the 
pressure cooker. Cook under high pressure for 
about 5 minutes. 
Allow the mixture to cool, then open and stir it. 
Add juice from one lemon  and salt to taste.
Serve with cilantro  or parsley .
The first time I had this, it was served 
with lots of fresh raw arugula, which 
added a nice flavor and texture.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 312
Pulled Pork Under Pressure
We covered collagen earlier (see page 195), but it’s 
worth taking another look here to see what a difference 
a pressure cooker can make. Collagen is a tough 
protein and meats that are high in it need to be cooked 
for lengthy times to properly break it down. Pressure 
cookers, as you’d guess, speed up that process, turning 
an all-day project into an after-work one.
In a bowl, mix together:
 2/3 cup (150g) brown sugar, packed (that is, 
press the sugar down to fit as much into 
the cup as possible)
 ¼ cup (60 mL) red wine vinegar
 ¼ cup (60g) ketchup or tomato sauce
 1 tablespoon (7g) paprika
 2 teaspoons (4g) freshly ground black 
pepper
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (1g) ground coriander (optional)
 ½ teaspoon (1g) cayenne pepper (optional, 
of course)
Feel free to improvise and add (or drop) whatever 
spices you like, and then mix to combine. 
Add:
 3–4 pounds (1.5–2 kg) pork shoulder or pork 
butt, with or without bone (make sure to 
buy something that’ll fit in your pressure 
cooker; if in doubt, have the butcher saw it 
in half or quarters)
Remove any skin from the pork, then coat the pork 
on all sides with the seasoning. Transfer it to your 
pressure cooker, add any remaining sauce, and cook 
under high pressure for 45–60 minutes (possibly 
longer if your pressure cooker doesn’t go to 15 psi).After it’s done cooking, transfer the cooked meat 
to a large bowl and pull the bone out (it should 
just fall out; if not, cook it longer!) along with 
any large chunks of fat, discarding them (or 
saving them for some other culinary project, such 
as rendering your own lard as described on page 
311). Use two forks to pull the pork apart, tearing 
and shredding it.
Pour the liquid from the pressure cooker 
vessel into the bowl—it should be just enough 
to submerge the meat—and mix together to 
thoroughly incorporate the sauce into the meat.
Notes
• Here are some ideas of what to do with pulled 
pork: serve on toasted hamburger rolls, on a 
potato pancake, in a French baguette sliced 
down the middle, or on top of rice. Mix into 
chili, use in tacos, add on top of pizza, toss 
into nachos. Or, do what I invariably do: grab a 
fork and just pig out (pardon the pun).
Undercooked Cooked
If your pressure-cooked meats are coming out tough 
(left), it’s because they’re undercooked. Cook longer and 
the collagen will break down to give that great texture in 
pulled pork. If your meats are coming out shredded but 
dry, then cut back on the cooking time the next time.High-Pressure Situations 313Cream Whippers
Most of us are familiar with whipped cream in a pressurized can. A cream whipper  is a 
reusable version of the can that you fill with cream or whatever else you like. It is a simple 
yet clever design: pour your contents into the container, screw on the lid, and pressurize 
using a small disposable gas cartridge that provides either nitrous oxide or carbon dioxide 
to the can through a one-way valve. Presto! You now have the ability to increase pressure 
and dissolve more gas into a liquid, opening up some fun culinary techniques.
Cream whippers take their name from their primary purpose: making whipped cream. 
With a whipper, you can control the quality of the ingredients and the amount of sugar 
used. Once filled up, they’re no different than the more familiar whipped cream cans. The 
obvious extension is to create flavored whipped cream. Toss some orange zest and maybe 
a bit of vanilla sugar into a pint of organic cream, screw the lid on and pressurize with a 
gas cartridge, and spray away. Try tea-infused cream: steep some Earl Grey in cream and 
transfer it to the whipper, or go smoky and use Lapsang Souchong tea. (Strain any tea 
leaves out before filling the canister of the whipper!) You can also spike the cream—make 
amaretto cream to go on your coffee with 4 parts heavy cream, 2 parts amaretto liqueur, 
and 1 part powdered sugar.
But the real fun with cream whippers is passing other liquids through them. You can 
whip any liquid or mixture that has the ability to hold air. Chocolate mousse can be made 
instantly with a cream whipper. Adding a small amount of gelatin or  lecithin (see page 430) 
to liquids will give them the capability of  foaming, producing a light, bubble-bath-like foam 
that’s edible and flavored. Foamed carrot juice sounds strange, but as part of an avant-
garde meal can be amazing. You can even put pancake batter in a cream whipper (and 
yes, some entrepreneur has already tried commercializing “pancakes in a can”). Because 
the contents are ejected under pressure, any small, pressurized bubbles come along for 
the ride and expand instantly, leading to mechanical injection of air into the liquid. This is 
why cream turns into whipped cream, although the foam that’s generated isn’t as stable as 
manually whisked whipped cream.
One downside of cream whippers is the expense of the disposable gas cartridges. They add 
up, but if you’re a regular user of whipped cream, the long-term savings alone will make 
buying a whipper worthwhile, not to mention the quality gains. If you want to play around 
with textures and flavors in the kitchen, it’s a downright cheap option.
Whippers come in an insulated variety, made of metal with an insulated center, that’s useful 
for keeping contents cold. These are handy if you’re using the whipper only for whipped 
cream. These thermal versions can’t be heated in a warm water bath, though, making it 
harder to do hot foams or to partially poach the contents à la sous vide for egg-based 
custards, so snag a noninsulated one for those purposes.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 314You can also use a whipper as a source of pressure. One technique uses an adapter you can 
find in the plumbing section of your local hardware store to connect the threaded spray 
nozzle of the whipper to a length of plastic tubing. Fill the tubing with a hot liquid and 
some agar or another gelling agent (which we’ll talk about later—see page 418), let it set, 
and use the whipper as a source of compressed air to force-eject the “noodle. ”
Don’t overlook the fact that cream whippers are also pressurized containers themselves, 
if you ignore the spray valve. Volatile compounds—most odors are volatile; otherwise, 
how could we smell them?—will dissolve into a liquid more readily under higher pressure. 
Dropping flavored items into the container (spices, fruit, peppers), covering them with a 
liquid (water, alcohol, oil), and pressurizing the container will rapidly infuse the liquid with 
the flavors. Then you just vent the pressure with the container in the upright position, 
taking care not to spray, unscrew the top, and pour your infused liquid through a strainer.
Another thing to try is using a CO2 cartridge to create “whipper fizzy fruit”—fruit that 
has been carbonated, giving it a fizzy texture. Try popping grapes, strawberries, or sliced 
fruit such as apples and pears into the canister and pressurizing it. Let it rest for an hour, 
depressurize the can, and remove the fruit. Not exactly haute cuisine, but fun to do as a 
party trick. Fizzy raspberries make a great basis for a mixed drink.
A few things to keep in mind when you’re working with a whipper:
• Make sure to get a whipper that allows for liquids other than cream—some 
manufacturers make “mini whippers” only usable with cream.
• Check that the gasket is properly seated and the threads on the lid are clean when 
screwing on the lid, unless you want chocolate cake batter, cream, or pancake mix 
sprayed 10 feet in a random direction.
• Always run your liquid through a strainer (~500 micron is fine—see page 348) to 
remove any particles that might clog the nozzle. You can skip straining things like 
plain cream, of course.
• When working with heavier batters, you can double-pressurize the canister. After 
pressurizing with one cartridge, remove it and pressurize with a second one. You’ll 
find that the pressure decreases as you run through the contents, because the 
airspace in the whipper increases as the contents are ejected.
• If your liquids fail to foam correctly, make sure they are cold! Cream will not foam 
when it is even slightly warm. Also try adding some gelatin, which provides 
structure. If you don’t mind taking a shortcut, try using flavored Jell-O.
• Don’t use gas cartridges made for nonfood applications, like BB guns. They aren’t 
food grade, and contaminants like manufacturing oils and solvents can come along 
for the ride.
High-Pressure Situations 315
Chocolate Mousse
Mousse —French for “foam”—refers to any dish, 
savory or sweet, that relies on trapped air bubbles 
for texture. This version creates a very light 
mousse, as heavy cream expelled from a whipper 
expands to about twice the volume of hand-
whisked whipped cream. 
Heat to a temperature hot enough to melt 
chocolate (130°F / 55°C):
 1 cup (240 mL) heavy cream
Remove from heat and whisk in to melt:
 2 ounces (60g) bittersweet chocolate
 ¼ teaspoon (0.5g) cinnamon
Transfer to whipper canister and chill in the 
fridge or in a container filled with half ice, 
half water. Make sure the mousse mixture is 
completely cold—fridge temp—before you 
spray it. Otherwise, the cream won’t whip! If 
the mousse still comes out too thin, shake the 
canister hard for a few seconds to partly set the 
cream.
Pressurize and dispense into serving glasses or 
onto a plate, as desired.
Note
• If you’re getting a jet of chocolate-flavored 
heavy cream instead of a mousse, then your 
cream isn’t chilled enough. Foamed Scrambled Eggs
This egg foam is something like a whipped 
mayonnaise, but incredibly light. Try it with steak 
and fries. This recipe is based on one by Alex 
Talbot and Aki Kamozawa, available online at 
http://www.ideasinfood.com  and in the bookstore 
(Ideas in Food , Clarkson Potter, 2010).
Measure out into a bowl:
 4 large (200g) eggs
 5 tablespoons (75 mL) heavy cream
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (2.5 mL) hot sauce, like 
sriracha 
Using a blender, thoroughly mix the ingredients. 
Strain into a noninsulated whipper and screw the 
lid on, but do not pressurize. Place the whipper in 
a water bath at 158°F / 70°C and cook until the 
mixture begins to thicken, around 60–90 minutes. 
Remove the whipper from the bath, check that 
the eggs are just partially set, and then pressurize 
the whipper. Dispense the eggs onto small serving 
plates and garnish, or use them as a component in 
a dish.
Note
• When I first made this, I accidentally 
overcooked the eggs in a too-hot water bath. 
They set inside the container and wouldn’t 
spray, but were also, hands-down, the best 
scrambled eggs of my life—something about 
the amount of cream and hot sauce…
Filter liquids through a strainer 
when filling the whipper. I use 
a tea strainer from my teapot 
because it’s handy, but any 
small mesh strainer will work.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 316
30-Second Chocolate Cake
In a microwave-safe bowl, melt:
 3.5 oz (100g) chocolate (bittersweet preferably)
Add and thoroughly whisk together:
 4 large (200g) eggs
 6 tablespoons (75g) sugar
 3 tablespoons (25g) flour
Pass the mixture through a strainer to remove 
any lumps and to filter out the  chalazae (the 
little white strands that attach the yolk to the 
egg white). Transfer the batter to a whipper and 
pressurize.
Spray the mixture into a greased glass, ramekin, 
or whatever microwave-safe container you will 
cook it in, leaving at least the top third of the 
container empty. The first time you do this, I 
recommend using a clear glass container so that 
you can see the cake rise and fall as it cooks.
Microwave the batter for 30 seconds or until the 
foam has set. Flip the cake onto a plate and dust 
it with powdered sugar.
Powdered sugar is the bacon of the pastry world. It goes well 
with almost everything and is great for covering up things like 
tears or holes—in this case, covering up a chocolate filling.
For better-tasting results, try adding chocolate-
hazelnut or marshmallow spreads: spray a thin 
layer of cake batter, drop a spoonful of filling into 
the center, and then spray more cake batter on 
top of and around the filling.After cooking, dip the top of the cake in chocolate 
and do a small loopy white icing design on 
the top, and you’ve got something close to 
commercial cream-filled cupcakes.
Notes
• Try spraying a thin square of the batter onto 
a plate and cooking that. Peel it off the plate, 
coat the top with a layer of jam or whipped 
cream, and roll it up to create a log-shaped 
chocolate treat.
• If you don’t have a cream whipper, you can still 
do a close approximation. Search online for 
“microwave chocolate cake.” Using a whipper 
aerates the batter and produces a much more 
uniform, spongier cake. 
Aerated microwave cake before cooking (left) 
and after cooking for 30 seconds (right).
If your cakes are coming out with dense pockets (left image, 
a cross-section of a cake made with a single charge) instead 
of fluffy and airy (like the right cross-section), try double-
charging the cream whipper: pressurize it once, remove the 
spent cartridge, and then charge it with a second cartridge.A Few Low-Pressure Tricks 317A Few Low-Pressure Tricks
If high pressure raises the boiling point and increases the solubility of gases into liquids, 
then it follows that dropping air pressure decreases the boiling point and can remove 
dissolved gases from liquids. But you can do other fun tricks using a vacuum system that 
creates low pressures. Craving pickles right now ? Air bubbles in your batter ruining cakes or 
clouding up your soups? Wondering how certain restaurants create  “watermelon steaks” or 
the food industry makes chocolate candies like Aero or freeze-dried ice cream? The answer 
to all these questions lies within vacuum systems that create low-pressure situations.
• Instant pickles:  Some foods—typically ones that pickle well—will spring back to their 
former shape after being exposed to a vacuum and having the pressure restored. You 
can take advantage of this property to cleverly suck a liquid into plant tissue. Squeeze a 
damp sponge and air will leave; let go while holding it under water and what was once 
air will become water. In cooking, this technique is called flash pickling . Microscopic air 
pockets in foods like cucumbers and onions will be pulled out and replaced with brine 
or other liquids, from flavor-infused oils to alcohol, and in a process that takes only 
minutes instead of days. Instant pickles!
• Removing air bubbles:  As pressure drops, the volume a gas occupies increases and 
the density of the volume decreases. In a viscous liquid (e.g., soup, batter), the decrease 
in air density means any air bubbles present are going to become more buoyant. Just 
as the less-dense hot air inside a hot air balloon causes it to rise due to the relative 
difference of density between it and its environment, less-dense air bubbles in liquids 
become more buoyant and more likely to rise to the surface. This follows from Stokes’ 
Law —essentially, viscous liquids exert a drag force around really small spherical 
objects—and increasing the difference in densities can overcome that drag force. 
(Shaking or knocking a cake pan against a counter won’t remove smaller bubbles for 
this reason.) Soups and liquids can become cloudy during cooking due to microscopic 
air bubbles being blended in; drawing a vacuum on them will clarify them by buoying 
up the small bubbles. This isn’t beneficial just for visual reasons; removing those air 
bubbles can change the way a liquid tastes and the way custards bake. 
• Translucent fruits: Under vacuum, air bubbles in fruits like pineapple and watermelon 
will expand with catastrophic results. Cells rupture and tissue walls collapse; upon 
return to atmospheric pressure, such foods can go through a serious case of the bends 
and become smaller, denser, and possibly more translucent due to the new absence of 
light-obscuring air pockets. 
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 318• Foamed foods:  You can inject air bubbles into liquids and then expand them by 
dropping the pressure of the air around them. Whipped cream in a can, of course, is 
the familiar version of this: increase the pressure, dissolve the gas into the liquid, and 
then rapidly drop the pressure. The dissolved air comes out of solution, and our friend 
Stokes’ Law keeps it in place (at least for a while, in the case of whipped cream). It works 
with solids, too: creating chocolate foam, first attempted in the 1930s, involves adding 
bubbles into melted chocolate, changing the size of those bubbles with pressure 
changes, and then letting the chocolate set. In industry, manufacturers do this by 
increasing the pressure around liquid chocolate to drive the gas into suspension (as 
with whipped cream), then rapidly decompressing it to foam up the chocolate and 
allowing it to set. Seeing as even professional chefs don’t have rapid decompression 
chambers, the culinary way to do this is to use a cream whipper to force nitrous oxide 
into melted chocolate, spray it, evacuate a chamber with the chocolate inside it to 
cause the bubbles to expand, and then let it set.
• Freeze-dried foods:  In our  continuing series of “water is wonderfully weird, ” the 
freezing and boiling points of water converge under a strong enough vacuum—called 
the sublimation point . The phase diagram on page 306 shows a point where solid, 
liquid, and gas all converge; at pressures below ~0.08 psi (6 hPa), ice converts directly 
to water vapor, skipping the liquid phase. Freeze-drying can create amazing results 
and also preserves a large amount of the nutritional value and flavor of the food. The 
few commercially available freeze-dried goods you might have experienced (such as 
freeze-dried instant coffee) may not taste as good as traditionally prepared foods, but 
this is more about economics and the ingredients being used than the freeze-drying 
process.
So now that I’ve hopefully got you excited about using vacuums, how can you actually do 
this at home? No, your vacuum cleaner won’t draw a strong enough vacuum. (Plus: eww, 
gross.) Luckily, there’s already a kitchen device that’s mostly up to the task: the vacuum 
sealer. Vacuum sealers are traditionally used by home cooks to seal and store foods. Instead 
of storing food in containers or plastic-wrapped bowls, food is placed into a food-safe 
plastic bag, air is sucked out of it by the unit’s air pump, and the bag is sealed by a fusing 
bar that melts and seals the opening of the bag. (Some units use one-way valve systems 
instead of fusing bars, but they don’t seal as well; avoid those.) The benefit? Removing air 
from the bag reduces oxidation of fats and minimizes odors that lead to freezer burn, plus 
the sealed food can be easily defrosted in water before being opened. Sous vide cooking, 
which we’ll cover next, also relies on vacuum sealers to package the foods being cooked.A Few Low-Pressure Tricks 319How to Make Your Vacuum Sealer Suck Even More  
(Or, “How to Void Your Warranty in Two Easy Steps” )
Under vacuum, microscopic air pockets in foods 
like onions and cucumbers lose their air. Upon 
returning to atmospheric pressure, most foods are 
rigid enough to keep their shape and pull air back 
in, like a squeezed sponge expanding back to its 
original shape. But what if the food is submerged 
when this happens? Liquid is pulled back in, 
instead of air.
Why bother? Because pulling liquids into foods 
this way gives an entirely different result than 
traditional pickling, leading to crisp textures 
with the flavors of whatever liquids were infused 
into the item. Instant pickles! Or if you’d rather 
convert a cucumber into an edible martini, check 
out the video “The Edible Martini” ( http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/flashpickle/ ) by the 
New York Times  and Dave Arnold. 
Pros like Dave who have commercial vacuum 
chambers can just drop whatever food they choose 
into a container with the desired liquid, transfer 
it to their vacuum chamber, and clamp down on 
the lid. For the rest of us, though, generating a 
sufficiently strong vacuum isn’t always so easy. If 
you have a vacuum food sealer and a canning jar 
attachment for it, give flash pickling a go: drop 
some cucumber slices into a flavored brine (half 
water, half vinegar, some salt and pepper, and 
spices as you like) and draw a 
vacuum.
It’s possible, though, that 
your vacuum sealer won’t draw 
a strong enough vacuum. If that’s the case and you don’t mind voiding your 
warranty, there is a way. (I should write an entire 
chapter called “Voiding Your Warranty.” Maybe 
someday...)
Consumer vacuum sealers have a pressure switch 
that triggers them to stop pumping and start 
sealing, meaning that they stop short of creating 
a strong enough vacuum to create a good pickle. 
But if you disable the pressure switch, the unit 
should continue to pump indefinitely, or until the 
motor burns out.
To make a DIY vacuum chamber system, you’ll 
need:
• A toggle switch
• A short piece of wire
• A screwdriver and wire cutters
• A consumer vacuum sealer with jar attachment
Locate the pressure switch (highlighted on the left). Cut 
one of the wires that runs back to the circuit board and 
interpose a toggle switch (highlighted on the right). 
Cut a small hole in the plastic and mount the toggle 
switch so that you can flip it from the outside.
Unscrew the cover of the 
vacuum sealer. It should 
look something like this.
Cucumbers being flash pickled with 
a consumer jar sealer attachment.PHOTOS USED BY PERMISSION OF CARL HILL-POPPER
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 320To use techniques like flash pickling, look for a vacuum sealer that supports canning 
attachments. These are devices that fit over the lid of a wide-mouth glass jar and pull air out 
of the jar—which, being rigid, doesn’t collapse and squish the food, as happens with 
traditional vacuum sealing bags. Normally these tools are used to extend 
food’s storage life by reducing oxygen exposure in the jar, but for our 
purposes they allow for many of the tricks just listed. (True freeze-drying, 
I’m afraid, requires too strong a vacuum for extended times—many 
hours—and lower temperatures than are easily manageable at home.)
One more note: if you happen to have a vacuum chamber sealer, 
consider yourself lucky. Vacuum chamber sealers are countertop units 
with an interior chamber that can easily drop the pressure of that 
chamber to ~10% of atmospheric pressure. Like consumer vacuum 
sealers, they’re normally used for rapidly sealing food storage bags, 
but they operate more quickly and have the benefit of not drawing out 
liquid or squishing the food during sealing (just upon repressurization). 
Most of the tricks listed here are super simple with a good vacuum 
chamber.
Sous Vide Cooking: 
Low-Temperature Poaching
With a name like sous vide , this cooking technique sounds French, and for good reason: 
it was French chef Georges Pralus who introduced it to the culinary world in the 1970s. 
While the name may be unusual-sounding to non-Francophiles, sous vide cooking is not 
complicated and is one of the most useful techniques to appear in the professional cooking 
world in the past few decades.
In sous vide cooking, food is immersed in a temperature-controlled 
liquid bath, usually water, where the temperature of the bath is the same 
as the target temperature of the food being cooked. Given enough time, 
an egg will set to soft–poached stage at around 144°F / 62°C. To cook 
a soft-poached egg sous vide–style, you would drop an egg (still in its 
shell) into a liquid bath at 144°F / 62°C and leave it there until enough of 
the proteins denature (about an hour). Perfectly cooked poached eggs! 
As we’ll see, the same concept applies for many other foods.
Another benefit of sous vide cooking is that the entire portion of 
food cooks to the same uniform temperature. There’s no overcooked 
outer portion with items like meats; the entire piece of food has a 
uniform temperature and uniform doneness. With traditional cooking Vacuum sealing doesn’t 
pasteurize or sterilize foods. 
Removing air does decrease 
the impact spoilage  bacteria 
can have, but increases some 
pathological  bacteria’s ability to 
grow. Unless you’re following 
specific instructions for canning 
or sterilizing foods, treat vacuum-
sealed foods like any other 
perishable items: store them in 
the fridge and use them within a 
few days, or freeze them.
Gradient of doneness for
traditional cooking methods
140ºF / 60ºC 155ºF / 68ºC 170ºF / 77ºC
“Gradient” of doneness for
sous vide cooking method
140ºF / 60ºC
Without a temperature gradient, 
sous vide cooked foods have a 
uniform level of doneness.Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 321techniques, cooking something like a pork chop is a race to tie at the 
finish line: you want the internal temperature to reach one temperature 
at the same time that the external surface temperature reaches a 
different one. Steering two different temperatures at the same time isn’t 
difficult per se, but it does require skill. Sous vide cooking separates the 
task of reaching those two temperatures into two different stages: first, 
bring the entire piece of food up to the desired internal temperature 
(say, pork chops to 140°F / 60°C); once that’s done, bring the surface 
temperature way up by dropping the item into a hot pan or tossing 
it under a broiler for a minute to brown the outside via the Maillard 
reaction.
The name sous vide  translates from the French “under vacuum. ” 
Traditionally, you start the sous vide process by placing foods into a 
heat-safe vacuum-sealed plastic bag. Using vacuum sealers removes 
all the air in the bag, which allows the heated liquid of the bath to 
transfer heat into the food while preventing the liquid from coming 
into direct contact with the food. This means the heating liquid (e.g., 
water) does not chemically interact with the food: the flavors of the food 
remain stronger, because the liquid can’t dissolve and carry away any 
compounds from the food. 
Sous vide cooking doesn’t have to be done with a vacuum-sealed bag. 
Eggs, for example, are already sealed (ignoring the microscopic pores). 
If using plastic is a concern for you, you can use small glass jars with oils 
or marinades inside with the food submerged, making sure that there’s 
no air getting in. If you use this method, make sure the glass container is 
small enough that the contents come up to temperature quickly for food 
safety reasons.
Picking the temperature of the liquid bath is, in theory, simple: 
understand the chemistry of the food being cooked and pick a 
temperature range that’s warm enough to trigger desirable reactions 
and cool enough to avoid triggering other reactions. For the variable 
of time, the food needs to cook long enough for sufficient quantities 
of the desired reaction to occur, exactly as we talked about when 
discussing the rate of reactions (see page 136). Normally these time 
and temperature ranges are based on certain families of proteins (e.g., 
collagen, myosin, actin) or polysaccharides like pectin and hemicellulose. 
We’ll cover temperature ranges for sous vide cooking, along with tips for 
various items, in the coming pages.After cooking an egg sous vide, 
crack it open and drop the egg 
(without the shell!) into a pot of 
just-boiled water. Then fetch the 
egg out immediately. The hot 
water will rapid-set the outside 
of the egg for better appearance 
and easier handling.
Cooking eggs in a sous vide 
bath at 144°F / 62°C.Sous vide  is a funny name; it 
should have been called “water 
bath cooking” because the actual 
heat source is the water.
The steak tip on the left was cooked 
sous vide at 140°F / 60°C; the one on the 
right was pan-seared. Note that the sous 
vide steak has no “ring of doneness”: 
it’s medium-rare, center to edge.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 322A “perfect” soft-cooked egg 
should have a slightly runny, 
custard-like yolk and a 
mostly set white. Eggs cooked 
in near-boiling water will 
overcook if the temperature 
of the egg ramps up above 
the “ideal” range before the 
egg is pulled out. In sous 
vide, the temperature of the 
water is equal to the ideal 
temperature of the cooked 
egg, so it cannot overcook.
TimeWater boils 212ºF / 100ºC
Yolk completely set 158ºF / 70ºC
Yolk begins to
set noticeably149ºF / 65ºC
Yolk begins to
set a little146ºF / 63ºC
White begins to
set noticeably144ºF / 62ºC
Storage temp. of eggs  40ºF /  4ºC
OVERCOOKED UNDERCOOKEDEgg in boiling water
Egg cooked sous vide to 146ºF / 63ºCIDEAL
Other points about sous vide cooking:
• Other fluids can be used instead of water, such as oil, or even melted  butter. Meats 
don’t absorb fats the same way that they can water, so using one of these as the 
liquid medium can allow you to skip sealing, or to seal with fats inside the bag. 
This can be extremely useful for those foods that might be difficult to vacuum seal. 
Chef Thomas Keller, for example, has a recipe for poaching lobster tails in a bath 
of butter and water ( beurre monté— melted butter with water whisked in—which 
will remain emulsified at higher temperatures than butter alone). Even if you’re not 
using a liquid bath of fats, adding a small amount of liquid inside your bag will help 
prevent the food from being “squeezed” flat by the vacuum step.
• Temperature-controlled air wouldn’t work, as the rate of heat transfer is too 
slow compared to water—roughly 23 times slower. Given the low temperatures 
involved, something like chicken in a 140°F / 60°C “air bath” (like a low-temperature 
oven) would take so long to come up to temperature that the chicken would spoil. 
(Thinly sliced meats, though, do heat up quickly enough—this is how beef jerky is 
made!) Using a liquid such as water ensures that heat can penetrate the food via 
conduction—liquid touching container touching food—rather quickly.
• Sous vide cooking doesn’t work on all meats and fish: the  textures of some foods 
will break down when held at temperature for any extended period of time. Some 
species of fish break down due to enzymatic reactions that normally occur at such 
a slow rate that they are not noticeable in traditional cooking methods. Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 323Sous Vide Hardware 
Sous vide cooking requires very little in the way of hardware: a source of heat to keep 
a liquid bath at temperature, something to hold the liquid, and a way to package the 
food being cooked. Commercial chefs tend to use expensive professional immersion 
recirculators dropped in large pans and chamber vacuum sealers; fortunately, there are now 
several products available for the home cook who wants to try sous vide.
There are two general styles of sous vide units: “clip-on” ones that attach to the side of a pot, 
and standalone units that have a reservoir that’s better insulated, and thus more energy 
efficient. Which to use is a matter of counter space and preference. If you’re unsure, go for a 
clip-on one; they’re cheaper to buy and use less counter space. Search online, or see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/sousvidegear/  for suggestions on current products.
Besides commercial consumer products that supply the heat, a number of emerging 
products provide the sous vide logic for setups based on “BYOHS” (bring your own heat 
source). These work by controlling the heat for stovetop burners or appliances like slow 
cookers: stick a probe thermometer in a pot of liquid or the bowl of the slow cooker, and 
the device will adjust the burner knob or cycle the appliance power on and off to moderate 
the temperature. While not as accurate as heater-based sous vide gear, which typically has a 
water agitator to circulate water to prevent cold spots, the BYOHS method is appealing for 
its simplicity and cheapness, and many sous vide dishes cooked this way will turn out fine. 
Hopefully we’ll see more kitchen appliances from mainline manufacturers incorporate digital 
probes as part of the hardware—why not have a USB port on your stovetop for a probe?—
but in the meantime, there’s plenty of fun to be had with wire cutters and rigging up your 
own sous vide setup.
The other hardware needed is something to package the food being cooked. Traditionally 
vacuum sealers are used, hence the cooking method’s name. Vacuum-packing food 
removes air from the package so that air bubbles don’t insulate the food or cause the bag 
to float, which would prevent the face-up side of the bag from heating up. If you get a sous 
vide cooker, you really should get at least a cheap consumer vacuum sealer (make sure to 
get vacuum sealing bags that are heat-safe!).
In a pinch, you can use certain brands of resealable sandwich and 
storage bags (freezer bags work best). To use such a bag, place the 
food in the bag and add a small amount of marinade, water, or oil 
(this will help remove air pockets). Then submerge most of the bag in 
a container of lukewarm water, leaving just the sealing strip at the top 
above water. Massage the bag to work out any air bubbles, and then 
seal it. If you’re concerned about plastic, use small canning jars filled 
with food and marinade (no air!), making sure they are small enough 
to heat up quickly in the water bath.Make sure that any plastic you’re 
using is heat-stable (formulated with 
plasticizers that are okay with heat) 
and free of BPA. SC Johnson, the 
manufacturer of Ziploc bags, does 
not use BPA and claims its bags are 
heat-safe up to 170°F / 76°C.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 324How to Make Your Own Sous Vide Setup
If you’re the type inclined to fiddle with 
electronics, you can build your own sous vide rig 
by ordering a few parts online and spending a few 
hours tinkering.
The actual electronics necessary to maintain 
a water bath at a set temperature are simple 
enough: a basic slow cooker or rice cooker, a 
thermocouple, and a simple thermostat controller 
to switch the heat source on and off.
First, the cooker. The cooker serves as the brawn, 
holding and heating water. Snag a cheap cooker—
you need one that will turn back on after losing 
power. Look for a unit that has a physical knob; 
the digital types reset and stay off after power 
has been switched off and then restored.
Next, the thermocouple. Hopefully you have a 
digital  probe thermometer, in which case you’re 
already familiar with a thermocouple: it’s the 
metal probe used to measure temperature. For a 
sous vide rig, you’ll need a type J thermocouple, which is made of materials that give it good 
sensitivity in the temperature ranges of sous vide 
cooking. (See http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/
sousvideprobe/  for an example.)
Finally, the temperature controller. Just about 
any thermocouple-based temperature switch 
will work; look for one that runs off 12 volts DC, 
such as Love Industries’ TCS-4030 (AC units work 
fine, too, but it’s nice to have less power running 
around for mistakes). Snag a 12-volt AC/DC power 
adapter while you’re at it.
Once you have all the parts on hand, it’s 
a relatively straightforward procedure to 
perform the lobotomy on the cooker: hook the 
thermocouple up to the probe inputs on the 
switch and connect the 12-volt power supply to 
the switch, then snip the cooker’s electrical cord 
and run one side of it through the switch. (Feel 
free to snag an extension cord and interpose on 
that instead of snipping the cooker’s cord.) Create 
a small hole in the lid of the cooker and poke the 
thermocouple through. When cooking, make sure 
you use enough water so that the thermocouple 
makes contact with the water when the lid is on.
To see a video explaining all this, see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/diysousvide/ .Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 325Sous Vide Cooking and Food Safety 
Sous vide cooking creates amazingly tender chicken, perfect soft-cooked eggs, and 
succulent steaks. It can also create the perfect breeding ground for not-so-succulent 
bacteria if done improperly. Here are a few things to be aware of when cooking sous vide:
• The heat involved in sous vide cooking is very low, so it’s possible to violate the “40–140°F 
/ 4–60°C danger zone” rule (see page 170) and its derivative rule, “Thou shalt pasteurize all 
potentially contaminated foods. ” Meats can be cooked to a point where they are texturally 
done—medium rare, proteins denatured—but have not been held for enough time at 
temperature to be pasteurized (i.e., had enough bacteria and parasites rendered nonviable). 
With sous vide cooking, pay attention to hold times to correctly pasteurize foods. A perfect 
medium-rare hamburger can be cooked and pasteurized with correct hold times!
• Pasteurization is not always an instantaneous process. When cooked to lower 
temperatures, food must  be held at temperature for a sufficient period of time for the 
appropriate reduction of bacteria to occur. Guidelines that say to cook chicken breasts 
to 165°F / 74°C are easy to understand because they don’t rely on hold time, plus have a 
wide margin of error for inaccurate thermometer reading. But you can pasteurize foods 
at lower temperatures, given longer hold times and accurate thermometers. The hold 
time for chicken breasts at 140°F / 60°C is around half an hour, meaning the meat needs 
to reach 140°F / 60°C and then sit at that temperature for at least that long.
• In the US FDA’s Bad Bug Book , the highest survival temperature listed for a foodborne 
pathogen  is 131°F / 55°C, for the relatively uncommon Bacillus cereus ; the next highest 
survival temperature listed is 122°F / 50°C. While these temperatures are below those 
used in cooking meats sous vide, there’s still a safety issue: given enough time during 
the heating-up phase, some pathogens can produce harmful 
toxins. To be safe, make sure that the core temperature of your 
food product reaches the target temperature within two hours.
• For individuals concerned about safety, sous vide can be a great 
cooking method: you have the tools to properly pasteurize 
pathogens. As a guideline, get food above 136°F / 58°C—the 
lowest temperature given in the US FSIS food guidelines—within 
a two-hour window and hold it for long enough to pasteurize it. 
Pay attention to hold times!
• Sous vide cooking methods are either cook-hold or cook-chill. In cook-hold,  the food 
is heated up and held at that temperature until it is served. In cook-chill , the food is 
heated up, cooked, then rapidly  chilled in the fridge or freezer for later use. (Use an ice-
water bath to quickly drop the temperature.) With the cook-chill approach, a greater 
amount of cumulative time is spent in the danger zone: first while the food is being 
heated, then while it’s being chilled, and then while it’s being heated again. Give 
preference to the cook-hold method.You can hold food above 140°F / 
60°C for as long as you want; it’s 
actually safer than storing food in 
the fridge. The downside is that 
some reactions, such as enzymatic 
activity, will continue to occur, 
leading to potential textural issues 
when the food is held too long.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 326
Dishwasher Poached Apples
Apples are available year-round, but feel free to 
try this with any firm fruit (ripe pears, peaches, 
etc.) as poaching fruits will both impart a great 
flavor and soften the fruit.
In a heat-safe plastic bag or small glass jar, add:
 1 cup (240 mL) water
 1 cup (200g) sugar
 1 teaspoon (2g) cinnamon
 ½ teaspoon (2.5 mL) vanilla extract
Mix ingredients to combine. Add to fill:
 1 apple, cored and sliced into about 1/8” / 0.5 
cm–thick pieces, optionally peeledSeal the bag. Place it on the top rack of the 
dishwasher and run the dishwasher. Serve 
poached apples with vanilla ice cream.
Make sure your bag is sealed before you “wash” it!Cooking in the…Dishwasher? 
Some people raise their eyebrows when I describe 
sous vide cooking. The idea of cooking in a water 
bath just sounds weird. But remember: cooking 
is about the application of heat, regardless of 
the source of that heat. Sous vide cooking is 
not the same as boiling food; that’d require 
the water to be around 212°F / 100°C. It’s not 
even like simmering or poaching, in which the 
liquid environment is hotter than the target 
temperature. Sous vide cooking is the application 
of a very low, controlled temperature equal to the 
target temperature of the food.
Consider a piece of salmon cooked to medium 
doneness, which is an internal temperature of 
around 126°F / 52°C. In a water bath at 126°F / 
52°C, a piece of ¾” / 20 mm-thick fish reaches 
that temperature in about 30 minutes, and unlike 
with poaching, when held for long enough time it 
will be pasteurized.
“Hmm, my tap water is about that hot…”I’ve tried it, and it does work, at least with my 
very-hot tap water: place the fish (sealed in an 
airtight bag with some marinade to remove air 
pockets) in a container in the sink, flip open the 
hot water tap, and keep a slow, constant trickle 
running. Set a timer and periodically check the 
temperature with a thermometer. It’s not exactly 
water or energy efficient, even at a slow trickle, 
but it works. Cooking other foods sous vide–
style requires water hotter than what your tap 
delivers—typically above 140°F / 60°C.
Wait a sec, did you say 140°F / 60°C? That’s about 
how hot dishwashers get!
Yup, it is. And cooking in dishwashers has been 
done. Search online for “dishwasher cooking 
recipes”—any recipe that uses poaching as a 
cooking method has a decent chance of working in 
the dishwasher: salmon, potatoes, even vegetarian 
lasagna.Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 327
Douglas Baldwin is an applied mathematician who, failing to find a good guide to sous 
vide, created one and posted it online for free. (Search online for “A Practical Guide to 
Sous Vide Cooking. ”) He is also the author of Sous Vide for the Home Cook  (Paradox 
Press, 2010).
How did you hear about sous vide, 
and how did you get involved in it?
I was reading an article in the New 
York Times  by Harold McGee, and he 
mentioned sous vide. While I knew 
quite a bit about cooking, I had 
never heard the term before and was 
intrigued. So I did what any good geek 
does: I went to Google and did some 
research. There was some information, 
but not enough to meet my curiosity. Douglas Baldwin on Sous Vide Cooking
So I turned to the academic journals 
and found a wealth of information.
It took me three or four months to 
collect and distill the 300 or so journal 
articles I found and publish the first 
draft of my guide online. I also did 
some calculations to figure out how 
long it takes things to cook and how 
long it takes to make them safe.What turned out to matter more 
than you expected when cooking 
sous vide?
People always worry about the 
vacuuming process, but that’s really the 
least important part, even though the 
name sous vide means “under vacuum.” 
It’s really the precise temperature 
control that is important.
Long-term precision is important, 
because you don’t want slow drifts 
when you’re cooking for days to cause 
your meat to be overcooked. But short-
term fluctuations in temperature really 
aren’t that important because they 
will only affect the very outer portion 
of the meat. As long as the heat is 
oscillating less than one or two degrees 
Fahrenheit and the mean temperature 
is constant, you should be fine.
Wow! Cooking meats for days? 
What sorts of meats actually need 
cooking for that length of time?
Well, my favorite is beef chuck roast 
cooked for 24 hours at 130°F / 54.4°C. 
It’s delicious. It transforms one of 
the least expensive cuts of beef into 
something that looks and tastes like 
prime rib.
It’s all about the conversion of collagen 
into gelatin. This conversion is pretty 
rapid at higher temperature, taking 
only 6–12 hours at 175°F / 80°C to 
completely convert almost everything. 
But at lower temperatures like 130–
140°F / 54.4–60°C, it can take 24–48 
hours for the same conversions to 
occur.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 328Can one reduce the level of 
parasites by freezing?
Parasites, certainly. Though freezing fish 
at home will affect the quality of fish, 
because consumer freezers just can’t 
freeze the fish fast enough to prevent 
large ice crystals from forming. Now, 
it’s completely possible that you can 
buy already frozen, high-quality fish, or 
simply find out from your fishmonger 
whether or not it has already been 
frozen for a sufficient amount of time to 
kill any parasites.
But freezing won’t kill the different 
bacterial food pathogens that one 
might be concerned with, and there’s 
always the concern of chemical 
contamination, especially with shellfish 
that are harvested from questionable 
waters.
How do you know if something will 
work when you go to sous vide it?
I never really know, but I like to really 
scour the research journals for clues 
to the underlying processes involved. 
I first look to see if anyone else has 
already done it. With the wealth of 
scientific knowledge now available to 
us through the Internet, it’s very likely 
that someone has asked and answered 
a closely related question. Then I just 
try and adapt it to the home kitchen. 
It always surprises me how often I can 
take things directly from an academic 
journal and apply them in 
the kitchen.Food safety is about controlling both 
the actual and the perceived risk. Many 
people perceive the risk of fish to be 
much less than the risk of pork, but in 
many ways it’s probably the other way 
around.
In our modern agro-industrial complex, 
we don’t really know where things 
come from. With this decrease in 
knowledge of where our food came 
from, what field, how it was processed, 
and how it finally gets to our table, I 
tend to take the attitude of “pasteurize 
everything and hope for the best.” 
Though it may not be what everyone 
wants or likes to hear.
What are the risks and what can 
somebody in the kitchen do to 
partially mitigate those risks?
When you’re trying to deal with food 
safety, especially when it comes to 
pathogens, it is about three things. 
First, starting with a low initial level of 
contamination, which would mean 
buying, for example, very good and 
very fresh fish for which you know the 
origin. The second is to prevent the 
increase in the level of contamination 
and is frequently accomplished with 
cold temperatures or acids. The third 
is reducing the level of contamination, 
usually by cooking.
The problem is that if you’re cooking 
fish sous vide at only 113°F / 45°C, 
then you won’t reduce the pathogens 
to a safe level. So either 
pasteurize your fish by 
cooking it at 140°F / 
60°C for about 40–50 
minutes or make sure that very 
few pathogens grow and that the fish 
has a very low amount to begin with by 
buying from a trusted source.When I look at something like 
brisket being cooked at 130°F / 
55°C for 48 hours, alarm bells go off 
in my head. Isn’t there a potential 
bacterial risk here?
Well, certainly there’s no risk at 130°F 
/ 55°C. The pathogen that determines 
the lowest cooking temperature is 
Clostridium perfringens . Its highest 
temperature reported in literature is 
126.1°F / 52.3°C. So as long as you’re 
above that temperature, there won’t be 
any food pathogens growing.
Now, there is the possibility of spoilage 
or beneficial microorganisms growing 
at these lower cooking temperatures. 
That’s one of the reasons that some 
people will sear ahead of time or drop 
the package of vacuum-sealed food 
in a pot of boiling water for a couple 
of minutes to kill off any thermophilic 
microorganisms that might be in there, 
like lactobacilli. But, in terms of safety, 
there’s no concern whatsoever.
How about things like salmon, 
which are cooked at even lower 
temperature ranges than 130°F / 
55°C?
If you would be fine eating the salmon 
raw, then cooking it for a couple of 
hours at a very low temperature, 
say 113°F / 45°C, isn’t going to 
be a problem. If you wouldn’t be 
comfortable eating it raw, then you 
probably shouldn’t be cooking it at 
anything less than pasteurization 
temperatures and times.
Most food scientists and food safety 
experts agree that you should 
pasteurize fish. Even though it may 
not taste the same, or possibly quite 
as good, at least you’ll feel a little more 
safe.
Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 329Cooking Times for Fish, Poultry, 
Beef, and Fruits and Veggies
While the principle of sous vide cooking is the same regardless of the food in question, the 
temperatures required to correctly cook and pasteurize any given food depend upon its 
specifics. Different meats have different levels of collagen and fats, and denaturation 
temperatures for proteins such as myosin also differ 
depending upon the environment that the animal 
came from. Fish myosin, for example, begins to 
denature at temperatures as low as 104°F / 40°C, 
while mammalian myosin needs to get up to 122°F / 
50°C. (Good thing, too; otherwise, hot tubs would be 
torture for us.) Slight changes in cooking temperature 
can yield improvements in quality—experiment!
Fish and other seafood
Fish cooked sous vide is amazingly tender, moist, and succulent. Unlike fish that has been 
sautéed or grilled—cooking methods that can lead to a dry and rough texture—sous vide 
fish can have an almost buttery, melt-in-your-mouth quality. Other seafood, such as squid, 
also responds well to sous vide cooking, although the temperatures do vary.Data for the graphs in this section are from Douglas 
Baldwin’s “A Practical Guide to Sous Vide Cooking”; 
see the interview with him on page 327 to learn 
more. If you are going to be using sous vide cooking 
in a professional setting, I highly recommend 
consulting Chef Joan Roca’s book Sous Vide Cuisine  
(Montagud Editores, 2005).
Pasteurized Eggs via Sous Vide
While Salmonella  is quite rare in uncooked eggs, 
with estimates being somewhere around 1 in 
10,000–20,000 eggs carrying the bacteria, it does 
occur in the laying hen populations of North 
America. If you’re cracking a few dozen eggs into 
a bowl for an omelet brunch every week, the odds 
are you’ll eventually crack a bad egg. This isn’t a 
problem if those eggs are scrambled—but what if 
they’re being poached?
The real risk for Salmonella  in eggs is in dishes 
that use undercooked eggs that are then served 
to at-risk populations. If you’re making a dish 
that contains raw or undercooked eggs—Caesar 
salad, homemade eggnog, mayonnaise, raw cookie dough—you can pasteurize the eggs. Pasteurized 
eggs do taste a little different, and the whites 
take longer to whip into a foam, so don’t expect 
them to be identical to their raw counterparts.
Since Salmonella  begins to die at a noticeable 
rate around 136°F / 58°C and the proteins in 
eggs don’t begin to denature until above 141°F / 
61°C, you can pasteurize eggs by holding them 
at a temperature between these two points. The 
FDA requires a 100,000-fold reduction (5 log10 
reduction), which you can achieve by holding the 
egg at 141°F / 61°C for 3.5 minutes. Remember to 
heat and then hold the eggs for the 3.5 minutes.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 330
At 131ºF / 55ºC, minimum time to
pasteurize for sous vide cooking
of /f_ish, where start temp is 41ºF / 5ºCAt 141ºF / 61ºC, minimum time to
pasteurize for sous vide cooking
of /f_ish, where start temp is 41ºF / 5ºCMyosin protein begins to denature in /f_ish
104ºF
40ºC113ºF
45ºC120ºF
49ºC 131ºF
55ºC136ºF
57.5ºC 141ºF
61ºCListeria monocytogens  breeding range 34º–113ºF / 1.5º–45ºC
Fish: medium rare
Fish: medium
24815
mm304560
.59
in1.181.772.36
.59
in1.181.772.36151 196 271 372
293 369 472Lean Fish Fatty Fish
Time in minutesThicknessLean Fish      Fatty Fish
15
mm304560
Time in minutesThickness30 72 134 213
41 85 152 237
Cooking fish sous vide is so straightforward that you don’t need a recipe to understand the 
concept. The following tips should help in your experimentation with sous vide fish:
• Fish cooked to a doneness level of medium rare (131°F / 55°C) or more undergoes 
pasteurization by being held at temperature for a sufficient length of time (see the 
time-for-thickness graphs provided for lean and fatty fish).
• Lean fish, such as sole, halibut, tilapia, striped bass, and most freshwater fish, 
requires less time to cook and pasteurize than fattier fish, such as arctic char, tuna, 
and salmon.
• For fish cooked to a doneness level of only rare (i.e., cooked in a water bath set 
to 117°F / 47°C), pasteurization is not possible. Thus, if you are 
poaching salmon at 117°F / 47°C, be mindful that it will not actually 
get hot enough to kill all types of bacteria commonly implicated in 
foodborne illnesses. Cooking fish at 117°F / 47°C for less than two 
hours presents no worse  an outcome than eating the fish raw, so the 
usual precautions for fish intended to be served raw or undercooked 
apply: buy sashimi-grade, previously frozen fish to eliminate parasites 
(see page 180), and don’t serve the fish to at-risk individuals.
• If the type of fish you cook ends up having white beads on the 
surface after cooking (coagulated  albumin proteins), try brining it the next time. Use 
a 10% salt solution for 15 minutes before cooking. This will “salt out” the albumin via 
denaturation.The US FDA’s 2005 Food Code 
excludes certain species of tuna 
and “aquacultured” (read: farm-
raised) fish from this requirement, 
depending upon the farming 
conditions (see US FDA Food Code 
2005 Section 3-402.11b).
Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 331Prepackaged Frozen Fish
The grocery stores where I live sell frozen fish in 
vacuum-packed bags. In some cases the fish, which 
has been cut into individual portions, is frozen in 
marinade, making it the perfect sous vide–ready 
food: it’s already vacuum-packed; it has been frozen 
per FDA standards, thus killing common parasites; 
and it has been handled minimally, having been 
frozen and sealed shortly after catch, reducing 
chances of bacterial cross-contamination. 
My favorite use of sous vide—well, besides making 
so many foods just plain delicious and easy to 
prepare for dinner parties—is using prepackaged 
frozen fish to make my daily lunch. My routine is 
fast, easy, cheap, and yummy:
1. Drop frozen vacuum-packed fish into sous 
vide cooking setup, add hot water, and 
flip on the unit. (Using hot water means I 
don’t have to wait for the unit to heat up 
the water, but it’s still running to keep the 
water at temperature.) Because it’s a single 
portion, the amount of time it’ll take to 
thaw is relatively short. Just remember: 
pasteurization times start once the core of the food has reached the target temperature. 
With a frozen item, you’ll have a hard time 
knowing when this occurs. I cook a single 
portion of fish for long enough to ensure that 
both thawing and pasteurizing have occurred. 
And because sous vide cooking is forgiving 
of longer cook times, for most types of fish 
leaving it in the water bath for an extra half 
hour won’t affect the quality.
2. Go for a run. Go to the gym. Do some errands. 
Write a section in a book about cooking 
frozen fish in a bag.
3. Fish out the bag, cut it open, drop the fish on 
a plate with some steamed veggies and brown 
rice, and voilà: lunch.
If you’re preparing yourself a meal to reheat later, 
you can drop the cooked food into a container 
with some frozen veggies, which do double duty 
by acting as ice cubes to rapidly cool the fish 
down.
The quality of frozen fish can really vary. Frozen 
salmon from one store can turn out mushy and 
unappetizing, while the same type of salmon from 
a different chain can come out moist, succulent, 
and perfect. This is most likely due to differences 
in freezing techniques: rapid freezing does less 
damage to the tissues by limiting the amount 
of time ice crystals have to aggregate and form 
larger, dagger-like shapes that can pierce cell 
walls. If you’ve had bad results with frozen fish, 
blame the freezing technique, not the fact that it 
has been frozen.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 332Chicken and other poultry
One of the greatest travesties regularly foisted upon our dinner plates is overcooked 
chicken. Properly cooked chicken is succulent, moist, and bursting with flavor—never dry 
or mealy. The challenge in cooking chicken is that, from a food safety perspective, ensuring 
pasteurization (sufficient reduction of the bacteria that cause, say, salmonellosis) also 
overcooks it. “Instant” pasteurization, which is what most recipes call for, happens at 165°F 
/ 74°C, but at this temperature 
most proteins also denature, giving 
the chicken that unappealing 
dry, mealy texture. However, 
pasteurization can be done at 
lower temperatures, given longer 
hold times . Sous vide is, of course, 
extremely well suited for this: so 
long as you hold the chicken for 
the minimum pasteurization time 
required for the temperature you’re 
cooking it at, you’re golden. Even if 
you hold it too long, as long as it’s 
below the temperature at which 
actin denatures, the chicken will 
remain moist. Another benefit of 
sous vide!
Sous vide chicken breast
As with fish, you don’t need a recipe in the traditional sense to try out sous vide cooking 
with chicken. Here are some general tips:
• Chicken has a mild flavor that is well suited to aromatic herbs. Try adding rosemary, 
fresh sage leaves, lemon juice, and black pepper, or other standard flavors, in the 
bag. Avoid garlic, however, because it tends to impart an unpleasant flavor when 
cooked at low temperatures. When adding spices, remember that the items in the 
bag are held tightly against the meat, so herbs will impart flavors primarily in the 
regions that they touch. I find that finely chopping the herbs or puréeing them 
with a bit of olive oil works well.
• As with other sous vide items, allow space between the individual items in the 
vacuum bag to ensure more rapid heat transfer, or place individual portions in 
separate bags.Salmonella  breeding range: 35º–117ºF / 2º–47ºC
Actin protein begins to denature
At 146ºF / 63ºC,
minimum pasteurization time for sous vide cooking
of poultry, where start temperature is 41ºF / 5ºC117ºF
47ºC136ºF
58ºC140ºF
60ºC150ºF
65ºC160ºF
71ºC165ºF
74ºCLowest pasteurization temperature in USDA’s FSIS table
Chicken: medium doneness
Chicken: well done
15
mm304560
Time in minutesThickness
23 61 116 186
100ºF 200ºFSous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 333Slow Cooker Versus Sous Vide
“Wait a sec,” you might be thinking, “this ‘sous 
vide’ thing…how’s it different from a slow 
cooker?”  I thought you’d never ask!
They’re not actually that different. Both hold a 
reservoir of liquid at a high enough temperature 
to cook food but not boil water. Sous vide cooking 
has two advantages over traditional slow cooking, 
though: the ability to dial in a particular 
temperature and to minimize the amount of 
variance that occurs around that temperature.
With a slow cooker, your food cooks somewhere 
in the range of 170–190°F / 77–88°C. The exact 
temperature and the extent to which it fluctuates 
aren’t so important for most slow-cooked dishes. 
This is because slow cooking is almost always 
done with meats that are high in collagen and 
vegetables that have a wide range of acceptable 
cooking temperatures. As discussed earlier (see 
page 162), meats high in collagen need longer cook times in order for the collagen to denature, 
hydrolyze, and transform into something 
palatable.
However, this leniency in temperature isn’t true 
for cuts of meat that are low in collagen, such 
as fish, chicken breast, and lean cuts of meat. 
For these low-collagen items, cooking needs 
to denature some proteins while leaving other 
proteins uncooked (native). The difference in 
temperature at which different types of proteins 
cook is only 10°F / 5°C, so precision and accuracy 
are important. Sous vide wins hands down. It’s 
not even close.
Try cooking duck legs both ways. Seal up two 
legs and cook them sous vide at 170°F / 77°C. 
Meanwhile, prepare a second set of legs in a 
slow cooker. Cook for at least six hours and then 
examine the difference.
Sous vide duck legs.
 Slow-cooked duck legs.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 334Beef and other red meats
There are two types of meats, at least when it comes to cooking: tender cuts and tough 
cuts. Tender cuts are low in collagen, so they cook quickly to an enjoyable texture; tough 
cuts require long cooking times for the collagen to dissolve. You can use sous vide for both 
kinds of meat; just be aware of which type of meat you’re working with.
Many chemical reactions in cooking are a function of both time and temperature. While 
myosin and actin proteins denature essentially instantly at traditional cooking temperatures, 
other processes, such as the denaturation and hydrolysis of collagen, take noticeable 
amounts of time at those same temperatures (collagen is a really complicated molecule; see 
page 162). As with most temperature-dependent reactions, the rate of reaction increases as 
the temperature increases, so while mammalian collagen will begin to break down at around 
155°F / 68°C, poultry legs and stews are often simmered at or above 170°F / 77°C. Even at this 
temperature, the collagen still takes hours to break down.
The drawback to cooking either type of meat with traditional cooking methods—searing 
low-collagen meats or stewing high-collagen ones—is that other proteins also denature. 
Fattier cuts of meat will mask the resulting dryness—hence the premium paid at the 
butcher counter for meats with good fat marbling. There is another way, though: cooking 
the meat in a sous vide environment will denature some of the proteins (e.g., myosin) 
and hydrolyze others (with sufficient time, collagen) while leaving other proteins native, 
preventing the dryness associated with traditional cooking methods. For low-collagen 
cuts of meat, the results are stunning: perfectly medium-rare meats in under an hour. For 
tougher cuts of meats, though, the catch is that the rate of reaction for collagen hydrolysis 
at these temperatures is so slow that the cooking time stretches into days. This isn’t a 
problem, technically speaking, as long as you don’t mind the wait.
High-collagen cuts: 24–48 hours for collagen breakdown at 141ºF / 61ºCMyosin protein begins to denature
104ºF
40ºC120ºF
49ºC 131ºF
55ºC141ºF
61ºC150ºF
66ºC160ºF
71ºCActin protein begins to denature
.59
in1.181.772.36
15
mm304560
Time in minutesThickness
88 123 181 256.59
in1.181.772.36
15
mm304560
Time in minutesThickness
32 66 116 179
Cooking times for low collagen cuts of meat. For high-collagen cuts, use 
24–48 hours at 141 F / 61 C to break down collagen.Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 335
Beef Steak Tips
One of the primary benefits of sous vide is the 
ability to cook a piece of meat, center to edge, to 
a uniform level of doneness. Beef steak tips are a 
great way to demonstrate this in low-collagen cuts 
of meat.
Place in a vacuum bag:
 1–2 pounds (~0.5–1 kg) steak tips, cut into 
individual serving sizes (~7 oz / 200g)
 1–2 tablespoons (15–30 mL) olive oil
  Salt and pepper, to taste
Shake the bag to coat all sides of the meat with 
the olive oil, salt, and pepper. Seal the bag, leaving 
space between each piece of meat so that the sous 
vide water bath will make contact on all sides.
For medium-rare doneness, cook the meat in a 
water bath set to 130°F / 54°C for 60 minutes; 
for medium to medium-well doneness, use 
145°F / 63°C for 45 minutes. (See page 166 for 
a temperature chart.) Remove the bag from the 
water bath, snip open the top, and transfer the 
steak tips to a plate. Pat them dry with a paper 
towel and then drop them into a preheated hot 
pan, ideally cast iron. Sear each side of the meat 
for 10–15 seconds. For a better sear, don’t move 
the meat while cooking each side; instead, drop it 
on the pan and let it sit while searing.
You can create a quick pan sauce using the liquid 
generated in the bag during cooking. Transfer the 
liquid from the bag to a skillet and reduce it. Try 
adding a dash of red wine or port, a small pat of 
butter, and a thickening agent such as arrowroot 
or cornstarch.Notes
• In sous vide applications, it is generally easier 
to portion out the food into individual serving 
sizes before cooking. This not only helps 
transfer heat into the core of the food faster 
(less distance from the center of mass to the 
edge) but also makes serving easier, as some 
foods—especially fish—become too delicate to 
work with after cooking. You can still seal all 
the pieces in the same bag; just spread them 
out a bit to allow space between the pieces 
once the bag is sealed. The downside is that 
vacuum sealing foods can give them an odd 
edge; be sure to use enough liquid inside the 
bag to prevent that.
• Add a small amount of olive oil or another 
liquid inside the bag to displace any small air 
bubbles that would otherwise exist in a dry-
packed bag. The quantities of oil and spices 
that you use are not particularly important, 
but the direct contact between the spices and 
food does matter. If you add spices or herbs, 
make sure that they are uniformly distributed 
throughout the bag; otherwise, they will impart 
their flavor only to the area of meat they are 
touching. Be careful to not add too much salt, 
as it appears to stabilize fats from rendering.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 336
48-Hour Braised Brisket or Ribs
Brisket is traditionally braised for many hours in a 
medium-temperature oven or slow cooker in order 
to break down the tough collagen in it. In sous vide 
cooking, we drop the temperature down to a precise 
141°F / 61°C,  just hot enough to cook it (and prevent 
spoilage) and trigger hydrolysis of the collagen.
Seal in a vacuum bag:
 1–2 pounds (0.5–1 kg) high-collagen meat, 
such as brisket, chuck roast, or baby-back 
pork ribs
 2+ tablespoons (30 mL) sauce, such as barbecue 
sauce, Worcestershire sauce, or ketchup
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (1g) pepper
Cook the meat for 24  –48 hours at 141°F / 61°C. 
Cut the bag open, transfer the meat to a sheet 
pan or baking dish, and broil it to develop 
browning reactions on the outside of the meat, 
1–2 minutes per side. Transfer the liquid from 
the bag to a saucepan and reduce it 
to create a sauce. Try sautéing 
mushrooms in a pan in a bit 
of butter until they begin 
to brown and then adding 
the sauce to that pan and 
reducing until the sauce 
is a thick, almost syrupy 
liquid.Notes
• If your meat has a side with a layer of fat, 
score the fat so it doesn’t pull on the meat as 
it cooks. To score a piece of meat, drag a knife 
through the fat layer, creating a set of parallel 
lines about 1” / 2.5 cm apart; then score a 
second set of lines at an angle to the first set 
to create a diamond pattern.
• For additional flavors, add espresso, tea 
leaves, or hot peppers into the bag, along with 
whatever liquid you use. Liquid smoke (see 
page 403) can give it a smoky flavor as well.
• If your sous vide setup does not have a lid, 
be careful that water doesn’t evaporate away, 
leading to unit burnout or auto-shutoff. One 
technique I’ve seen is to cover the surface of 
the water with ping-pong balls (they float); 
aluminum foil stretched over the top works as 
well.
LoinPork Chops Pork Rinds Rump
Ham
Leg
Foot
BaconSpare Ribs
HockPork ShoulderBlade Shoulder
NeckSous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 337Fruits and vegetables
Vegetables, like fish and meats, can also be cooked sous vide. Unlike proteins, the starches 
in vegetables don’t begin to break down until much warmer temperatures, typically around 
180–190°F / 82–88°C. For professional cooks, where consistency and exact reproducible 
steps are important, cooking vegetables sous vide will produce better results than 
traditional poaching and blanching.
For the home cook, though, sous vide vegetables raise an “Is it worth it?”  question. If you’re 
sous vide cooking two different parts of a meal at the two different temperatures, then you 
need to either cook them sequentially, or be willing to pay for two sous vide setups. You 
can see where this is headed. I’ll confess here that I cook my vegetables the traditional way: 
blanching in a pot of hot water with a watchful eye, taking care to not overcook them.
Still, you should give sous vide cooking of vegetables a try and compare the outcome with 
traditional methods. Keeping fruits and vegetables in a sealed bag does keep their juices up 
against the tissues, leading to stronger flavors. Also consider that the ratios of sugars to 
starches in your fruits and vegetables will vary, even for the same source, over the course of 
the year, as weather changes. Expect to adjust cooking times as necessary.
Try this: drop some peeled and halved small carrots 
or asparagus into a bag, along with olive oil, salt, 
and pepper; seal the bag; and cook the vegetables 
at 185°F / 85°C for 10–15 minutes. You may need to 
rig up some insulation around your sous vide setup 
if it struggles to maintain temperature; covering with 
plastic wrap will also help. Asparagus cooked at 185°F 
/ 85°C will remain vivid green; at 203°F / 95°C, it’ll 
have begun to fade. 
Beyond cooking veggies sous vide, you can do some other useful tricks with them in a 
water bath. The geeky way to think about cooking is to consider the addition of heat to a 
system. Adding heat isn’t a spontaneous thing: there will always be a heat gradient, and the 
difference between the starting and target temperatures of the food will greatly affect both 
the cooking time and the steepness of the gradient.
This is one reason to let a steak rest at room temperature for 30 minutes before grilling: 30 
minutes is short enough that bacterial concerns are not an issue, but long enough to shrink 
the temperature difference between raw and cooked steak by a third. You can use a water 
bath to the same effect for vegetables: reduce the heat delta by holding them in a moderate-
heat water bath (say, 140°F / 60°C) for 15–20 minutes, and then steam or sauté them.Cooking times at 185°F / 85°C
Soft fruits (e.g., peaches, plums): 20–60 minutes
Firm fruits (e.g., apples, pears): 25–75 minutes
Tender vegetables (e.g., asparagus, sliced fennel, 
peas): 10–60 minutes  (longer for thicker slices)
Root vegetables (e.g., potatoes, beets): 2–4 hours
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 338I often cook steak tips at the same time that I preheat hardy green vegetables like kale or 
collard greens, using the same water bath for both the steak and the veggies. The veggies 
don’t actually cook at the temperature that the meat is cooking at! When I’m ready to serve 
the dinner, I fetch the greens out and give them a quick sauté in a frying pan. Because the 
greens are already warm, they reach a pleasant cooked texture in just a minute or two. Then 
I transfer them to a plate and, using the same frying pan, I give the steak tips a quick sear to 
brown the outsides and finish them off in no time.
There’s another fun trick you can do with vegetables, and this is one where a sous vide 
setup is definitely needed. Ever wonder why vegetables like carrots in some canned soups 
are mushy, textureless blobs, but are firm in other brands? It’s not because of differences 
in the variety of carrots being used. Some vegetables—carrots, beets, but not potatoes—
exhibit a rather counterintuitive behavior when precooked at 122°F / 50°C: they become 
“heat resistant, ” so they don’t break down as much when subsequently cooked at higher 
temperatures. Holding a carrot in a water bath at around 122°F / 50°C for 30 minutes 
causes enhanced cell-cell adhesion , science lingo for “the cells stick better to each other, ” 
which means that they’re less likely to collapse and get mushy when cooked at higher 
temperatures or stored for extended periods of time.
During the precooking stage, calcium ions help form additional 
crosslinks between the walls of adjoining cells, literally adding 
more structure to the vegetable tissue. Since “mushy” textures 
occur because of ruptured cells, this additional structure keeps 
the vegetable tissue firmer by reducing the chance of cellular 
separation.
The normal solution to mushy vegetables is to refrain from 
adding them until close to the end of the cooking process. This 
is why some beef stew recipes call for adding vegetables such 
as carrots only in the final half-hour of cooking.
For industrial applications (read: canned soups), this isn’t 
always an option. In home cooking, while you won’t need  this 
trick, it’s a fun experiment to do. Try holding carrots at 120–
130°F / ~50–55°C for half an hour and then simmering them in 
a sauce mixed in with a batch of sliced carrots that hasn’t been 
heat-treated. (You can cut the heat-treated carrots into slightly 
different shapes—say, slice the carrot in half and then into 
half-rounds, versus full-round slices—if you don’t mind your 
experiment being obvious.)
Try par-cooking vegetables in your sous vide 
setup at the same time that proteins are 
cooking. When you’re ready to serve the meal, 
give the greens a quick sauté to finish them.Sous Vide Cooking: Low -Temperature Poaching 339Chocolate and Sous Vide Cooking 
Water baths allow for a  shortcut in working with 
chocolate: already tempered chocolate won’t lose 
its temper if you don’t get it any hotter than 
around 91°F / 32°C. The desirable forms of fat won’t 
melt (see page 148), so you’re good to go. To melt 
already tempered chocolate, seal it in a vacuum bag 
and submerge it in a water bath set to 91°F / 32°C. 
(You should be able to go a degree or so warmer; 
experiment!) Once the chocolate is melted—which 
might take an hour or so—remove the bag from 
the water, dry the outside, and snip off one corner: 
instant piping bag.
If you’re going to be working with chocolate on 
a regular basis, the sous vide hack will probably 
get tiring. If you have the dough to spend, search online for chocolate tempering machines. Some 
vendors sell units that combine a heat source, 
motorized stirrer, and simple logic circuit that 
temper and hold melted chocolate suitable for 
everything from dipping fruit to coating pastries 
to filling chocolate molds. Of course, if you have 
a slow cooker, thermocouple, and temperature 
controller…
My grocery store carries specialty bars of 
chocolate infused with unusual ingredients: 
curry powder and coconut; plums, walnuts, and 
cardamom; even bacon bits. These exotic chocolate 
bars also carry exotic price tags, so I thought, how 
hard can it be to make these? With sous vide, it 
turns out it’s downright simple.
Place tempered chocolate in a vacuum bag. Use chocolate in bar form; chocolate chips might not 
work if they aren’t as well tempered.
Add your flavorings. Try almonds or hazelnuts (at about a 1:2 ratio—
one part nuts to two parts chocolate by weight). Your ingredients should 
be dry. Any water in them will cause the chocolate to seize up.
Seal the bag, drop it in a water bath set to 91°F / 32°C, and wait for 
the chocolate to melt, which may take an hour or two.
After the chocolate is thoroughly melted, work the bag to distribute the chocolate and flavorings. 
You can use a rolling pin to work the fillings around if you’re using something like nuts.
Let the bag rest on the counter to cool.
Once cooled, snip the bag open and peel it off the chocolate. You can break the bar up into pieces.
Try using coffee beans (mmm), candied grapefruit rind, dried fruits such as 
cranberries, or a mix of toasted nuts—almonds, pistachio, and pecans—with 
maybe a pinch of cayenne pepper. Coconut flakes, toffee pieces, crispy rice cereal, 
pretzel pieces, potato chips, graham cracker bits…the possibilities are endless!
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 340Making Molds
We tend to take the shapes of foods for granted, but that doesn’t mean we should. There 
are lots of amazing things you can do with molds besides making heart-shaped chocolates 
or ice cream cones. You probably don’t think of cake pans or cookie cutters as molds, but 
they change the shapes of foods: cake pans confine the 3D volume that batters can fill 
and cookie cutters define the 2D shape of rolled doughs. What sorts of fun arts-and-crafts 
things can we do to make our own shapes?
A quick primer on molds: molds can be either rigid or flexible and heat-safe or not. Rigid, 
heat-safe molds are almost always metal (historically copper) and are used for baked 
foods such as cakes and madeleines as well as cold-setting foods like gels ( mmm , Jell-O), 
chocolates, and sugar decorations. Flexible culinary molds are made with either plastic or 
food-grade silicone rubber, the latter also being heat-stable.
Before making a mold, think about what food you want to put in or on it. Do you need a 
heat-safe mold? Does the mold need to be flexible for you to be able to remove the food? 
Gels are flexible and don’t need to be heated, so even rigid plastic molds work. Jell-O will 
work (rather boringly so); or get creative and use a flavored panna cotta recipe (see page 
424). Heat-safe molds are needed for sugar work—say, shaped lollipops—as well as batters 
that need to be baked (Bundt cake, anyone?). For these foods, use either metal or silicone 
molds, opting for either a stiff or a flexible one based on the food. 
Enough talk about how molds are normally used. What I want to discuss is how to make 
your own—in whatever shape you like!
Cookie cutters are easy to create, and making one is a fun holiday project. Plus, you 
probably already have everything you need on hand. Want an R2-D2–shaped cookie? Grab 
an empty aluminum soda can, your kitchen shears, and a pair of needle-nose pliers. Snip 
a round strip from the can, fold in the top and bottom of the strip to create clean edges, 
and use the pliers to bend and shape the strip. (A 
cardboard cutout template of the desired shape, 
R2-D2 or otherwise, will help.) If you happen to have 
access to a CNC (computer numeric control) printer, 
you can print a cookie cutter out of ABS plastic molds 
and wrap it in aluminum foil (ABS plastic isn’t food 
grade, and some extruder heads contain lead). 
 Tux the Penguin cookies, made using a CNC-printed cookie cutter. 
See http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/cookie-cutter/ for files.Making Molds 341Simple crude chocolate and sugar candy molds can be made by 
pressing an object into a layer of cornstarch. Like with sand casting, 
pressing an object into the cornstarch and removing it leaves a 
“footprint” behind. Fill that void with chocolate or hard-crack state sugar 
(sugar syrup heated to 300°F / 150°C),, let it cool, and voilà ! While this 
method is quick— mmm,  chocolate LEGOs—the cornstarch tends to stick 
to the finished food and the mold doesn’t pick up much in the way of 
details. It’s a fun experiment that doesn’t require much work, but not 
likely to be a regular technique.
Silicone rubber molds  are great at picking up detail (e.g., chocolate 
coins with recognizable faces) and are usable between –65°F / –53°C 
and 450°F / 230°C. The downside is availability and cost—you’ll have to 
order supplies online, and the cost for larger molds can add up. Still, it’s 
worth it: silicone rubber molds that you see at the store are one-part 
molds without much detail; the beauty of the DIY option is in detailed 
multipart molds that can be baked and flexed to pop off of various 
shapes. Flat objects (coins, keys) and convex objects (no concave shapes, 
so oddly, asparagus) are easiest to make molds of: drop the object into 
a flat tray, coat it to cover, let the mold set, remove and flip the object, 
and then coat the other side. Vintage plastic toys that come from simpler 
molds (e.g., cars, toy soldiers, dinosaurs) are easy enough to make molds 
of too: place the toy into a plastic container, coat it to cover, let the mold 
cure, then unmold the toy and carefully cut the mold in half. (You may 
need to cut a sprue in before being able to pour food in.) 
Plaster of Paris , a.k.a. calcium sulfate, is used to make plaster bandages, 
which are heat-safe and nontoxic. Plaster bandages are rolls of cloth 
coated with calcium sulfate; a strip is cut off, dipped in a bowl of water, 
and wrapped around the object (historically, a broken arm; these days, 
mainly objects for arts-and-crafts applications). Coat whatever you’re 
going to wrap—beach ball, tree branch, large tire inner tube—with a 
generous layer of shortening first, which will act as a mold release, and 
then cover the object with three to five layers of plaster bandage. If you 
need to cut the plaster bandages after they’re dry, use an angle grinder 
with a grit disc. Food-grade calcium sulfate is hard to find (it’s used in 
making tofu but not in plaster bandages), so you may want to line the 
mold with parchment paper, depending upon your use.
Some molds are just surfaces on which 
foods are added, cooled, and then removed, 
such as for making ice cream cones and 
chocolate leaves. To make chocolate 
leaves, coat the back side of lemon or 
rose leaves with tempered chocolate, 
rest at room temperature for an hour or 
two, and peel the leaf off. Try coating the 
leaf with a thin layer of white chocolate 
first to highlight the leaf venation.
You don’t have to make a mold to get 
creative: use existing molds in different 
ways. Bake an “Apple” apple pie in a square 
cake pan. Use a knife to cut the logo, 
or do what Lenore Edman and Windell 
Oskay of Evil Mad Scientist did: use a 
laser cutter. See http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/appleapplepie/ for details.
USED BY PERMISSION OF LENORE EDMAN
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 342
Sugar Cone Bowls for Ice Cream
Ice cream cones, sugar cone bowls , and even American-style fortune cookies are all the 
same recipe—a super-sweet sugar cookie—just set into different shapes using different 
molds. Start with these sugar cone bowls; if you want to get craftier, look online for 
instructions on how to make molds and templates for sugar cones. (In a nutshell, use 
thick paper to create a cone, cover it with aluminum foil, and then roll a round disc of 
sugar wafer around the cone before it cools.)
Expect to have to make a few of these before getting something workable. This recipe 
should make about 8 small bowls.
Preheat oven to 300°F / 150°C.
In a bowl, thoroughly mix together:
 ½ cup (100g) sugar
 2 large (60g) egg whites
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) vanilla extract
 ½ cup (70g) flour
 2 tablespoons (30g) butter
Cut or tear eight sheets of parchment paper, each about the size of a sheet of US 
Letter paper (8.5” × 11” / 21.5 cm x 28 cm). Each sheet will be used for a bowl; start by 
baking one at a time, but you can bake them two at a time as you get the hang of it.
Drop about 2 tablespoons of batter on the center of a sheet of parchment paper, and 
using the back side of a table knife, spread the batter out into a circle of uniform 
thickness.
Transfer the parchment paper to a cookie sheet and bake the batter in the oven 
for about 20 minutes, until the entire cookie is a golden brown. (You’ll get a more 
uniformly brown cookie by baking these at a lower temperature for longer.)
Cookie baked at 300°F / 150°C. Cookie baked at 350°F / 180°C.Making Molds 343
Now, for the mold part: find a drinking glass 
(that’s made of glass—not plastic!) with a base 
that’s roughly the shape that you want for your 
sugar cookie bowl and set it upside down on the 
counter. Remove the cookie sheet from the oven 
and, using your fingers, pick up the sheet of 
parchment paper. Quickly place it upside down on 
top of the drinking glass (1)—cookie centered 
over the glass and directly touching it—and 
continue to hold the parchment sheet in place 
with one hand. Use your other hand to drape a 
kitchen towel over the sheet and press down, 
using the towel as a hot pad (that sugar cookie 
should be hot!). Use both hands to quickly press 
the edges of the cookie down the sides of the 
glass.
After 20–30 seconds, the cookie will have cooled 
and set. You can slip it off the glass, and then 
carefully peel the parchment paper off, tearing it 
if necessary to work it out of any folds (2).
Notes
• Sugar is hygroscopic, so homemade 
sugar cone bowls will pull in lots of 
moisture from the air and lose their 
snap after a few hours. They’re still 
delicious, of course, just not quite as 
delicious.• Try adding seeds or other 
ingredients—sesame seeds, poppy 
seeds, candied ginger—to the dough; 
you can sprinkle these on top around 
the edges of the flattened-out dough 
to give the cookie a flavored edge.
1
2
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 344How to Make a 500-Pound Doughnut
Doughnuts. Is there anything they can’t do? 
—Homer Simpson (“Marge vs. the Monorail”) 
Making a monster doughnut on network television is one of those crazy life stories that you 
never expect to happen to you. But after the first edition of this book came out, I got a call 
from a production company looking for a food science geek to be in a show for a “ network ” 
that “deals with food .”
“How big of a doughnut do you think you could make?” they 
wanted to know. The show idea was simple: two chefs, each assisted 
by a pastry chef and a food science geek, would compete to make 
the tastiest, prettiest, and biggest version of an assigned food. The 
first (and only) episode of Monster Kitchen  was broadcast on July 19, 
2011, and showed us making a giant doughnut.
After some reading—yes, a baked doughnut still qualifies as a 
doughnut—I came up with a plan. I’d make a mold that we could 
bake in a room-sized industrial oven, Pastry Chef Amy Brown would 
mix up the batter in a cement mixer, and Chef Eric Greenspan would 
take care of the doughnut filling. The entire plan hinged on the 
ability to make a monster mold in the shape of a doughnut. A 5-foot-
wide (1.5 meter) mold. As big as Chef Greenspan himself. Yikes.
Silicone rubber is often used for food molds, but the curing time would be too long, plus 
the mold would be too thick for the dough to cook. Metals like copper are also common for 
food molds, but at this scale a copper mold would be either too flimsy to hold its shape or 
too thick to manipulate. This left plaster—and plaster bandages, rolls of gauze coated with 
plaster powder. Bingo! Wet the strips and lay them on the surface of the object you want to 
create a mold of, and a few hours later they’ll have cured into a hard cast that’s also heat-safe.
For the positive —the item that provides the model for the mold—I 
needed something torus-shaped, like a white-water-rafting tube. At 
smaller sizes I could make a positive by crumpling up aluminum foil 
into the approximate shape and working it, but no way for a 5-foot 
one. After an admittedly grueling phone and online hunt (thanks, 
Chris!), we found a tire tube that was just over 5 feet in diameter. I 
had my materials to make a true torus-shaped mold and something 
to fabricate the mold around. Add cake batter, bake, and glaze, and 
you’ve got a monster doughnut.
Making Molds 345Mini-monster doughnut mold (for ~1-foot-diameter / 30 cm 
doughnuts)
1 Make and check a mold positive  by crumpling up aluminum foil into a torus 
shape and then wrapping it in plastic wrap. Check that it’ll fit into your oven (or if 
you’re daring, your deep-fat fryer) before continuing.
2 Coat the positive with shortening, which will act as a mold release.
3 Create the mold using plaster bandage strips, available online or at craft sup -
ply stores. Cut a strip a few feet long, wet it, and wrap it around the positive. 
Depending upon the size of your mold, either loop the strips around the torus, in 
which case you’ll have to cut it later, or wrap only the sides and top such that you 
can remove the aluminum/plastic wrap core later. Repeat until the entire tube is 
covered, at least 4 or 5 times. (In the show, the mold was wrapped 8–10 times; that 
was just barely enough for that size.) 
4 Allow mold to cure,  ideally 24–48 hours. 
5 Remove the positive. If you left the bottom uncovered, flip the mold over and pull 
out the aluminum foil and plastic wrap. If you fully wrapped the mold, cut the top 
off with an angle grinder (wear a dust mask and eye protection!).
Cake doughnut recipe
The following doughnut recipe, based on Amy Brown’s work, makes fantastic cake-based 
doughnuts. (Doughnuts are often raised with yeast, but we opted to go with a baking powder 
and baking soda–based dough for a quicker rise.) Don’t let the “500-Pound Doughnut” title 
here fool you into thinking you can’t make regular doughnuts with this recipe. 
1 In a bowl (for 1 dozen regular doughnuts), Hobart mixer (1-foot-diameter / 30 cm 
doughnut), or twenty 5-gallon food-grade buckets (5-foot-diameter / 1.5m dough -
nut), mix:
1 dozen regular 
doughnuts1-foot-diameter 
doughnut5-foot-diameter 
doughnut
Flour (g) 516 6,192 103,200
Sugar (g) 238 2,856 47,600
Baking soda (g) 3 36 600
Baking powder (g) 9 108 1,800
Salt (g) 3 36 600
Nutmeg (g) 2 24 400
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 3462 In another large bowl (for 1 dozen regular doughnuts or a 1-foot-diameter dough -
nut), or four 5-gallon food-grade buckets (5-foot-diameter doughnut), mix:
1 dozen regular 
doughnuts1-foot-diameter 
doughnut5-foot-diameter 
doughnut
Buttermilk  (mL) 192 2,304 38,400
Butter (g) 64 768 12,800
Vanilla extract (mL) 4 48 800
Eggs, large (count) 2 24 400
Egg yolks (count) 1 12 200
3 Mix dry and wet ingredients, using a spatula for the smaller versions; for a 5-foot-
diameter doughnut, mix in four batches in a stand cement mixer. Transfer dough to 
mold.
For regular doughnuts , roll the dough out to about ½” / 1 cm thickness. Cut it into 
doughnut shapes using a round punch (a large yogurt container, flipped upside down, will 
work); punch out the center as well. Fry dough in oil at 375°F / 190°C until golden brown, 
taking care to keep the heat at the appropriate temperature (use more oil and cook them 
one or two at a time). Flip doughnuts partway through baking. Once they’re done, transfer 
to a cooking sheet lined with paper towels to cool.
For 1-foot-diameter doughnuts , bake in an oven set to 350–375°F / 175–190°C until the 
middle reaches 195°F / 90°C. Remove the doughnut from the oven, cool for at least 30 
minutes, and remove the mold. If you choose, optionally fry the doughnut at this point 
to set the outside to a crispier, mahogany brown color: transfer the doughnut to a sturdy 
cooling rack and, using a wire to hold that rack, lower the doughnut into a large pot of hot 
frying oil, fry it, and then lift it out.
For a 5-foot-diameter doughnut , start by baking it in a large oven, somewhere around 
350–375°F / 175–190°C, for half a day or so, until the internal temperature reaches 180°F 
/ 80°C. To fry it…well, it’s complicated, involving cranes, sand 
blasters, welders, dumpsters, and about a million BTU of 
burners. Thankfully, someone else was footing the bill.
Filling and glazing
As for filling and glazing the doughnut, that’s a 
personal choice. On the show, we used an egg custard 
filling and maple glaze, with chocolate-coated bacon 
strips as sprinkles. Personally, I think powdered sugar is 
pretty good, and way easier.See notes on 
page 278 for 
buttermilk 
substitution
Wet Separations 347Wet Separations
Separating foods is an intriguing chemistry and physics problem that calls for clever 
solutions (pardon the pun). Many ingredients—olive oil, flour, butter, orange juice—start 
out as mixtures that involve a separation process to split them, like removing oil from an 
olive or splitting fat from milk.
How to separate out various parts of an ingredient depends on its properties. There’s the 
obvious property of size—straining pasta from water is easy—and some liquids, like fresh 
whole milk, separate on their own when given time. But how would you remove salt from 
water or separate flavors from liquids? The tools of the industrial world can help us answer 
these questions, based on differences in aspects like density, boiling points, and even 
magnetic properties. Here are some of the ways the food industry separates out liquid 
things:
• Mechanical filtration  easily strains solids from liquids, separating pulp from 
pressed juices and turning cloudy liquids clear. Sometimes a double-whammy 
approach is taken: adding a temporary ingredient that sticks to cloudy stuff in 
liquid and then is filtered out to create crystal-clear liquids.
• Centrifuges separate mixtures based on differences in density and are easier 
to use than the previous option in industrial operations (no filters to clean). 
Countertop centrifuges can spin a small quantity of liquid, but industry needs 
something with way more capacity. One option is a decanting centrifuge , which 
takes a mixture in on one end and then spins the liquid, causing the denser items 
(pulp in juices, yeast in beverages) to separate out through one pipe while lighter 
items (fat from milk, vegetable oil from pressed vegetable matter) travel farther 
and exit through another pipe. Continuous-feed centrifuges are a rather clever way 
of scaling up mechanical filtration and natural separation.
• Drying, a.k.a. dehydration , works by evaporating water, reducing the moisture 
content for shelf stability; it changes the texture, color, and flavors of foods.
• Distillation  works by evaporating a liquid into a gas and then condensing the 
gas into another container. The entire liquor industry is based on distillation, and 
perfumes and many fragrances are also separated out from water this way.
We’ll dive into potential kitchen uses of these separation techniques over the next few 
pages.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 348I’d be remiss if I didn’t include two other separation techniques and fun demos of how they work. Neither is 
useful in the kitchen, but they’re interesting!
• Magnetic separation  is used in industrial 
processing to remove any “ferrous foreign bodies” 
like bolts or metal shavings that have accidentally 
entered the food supply. While a consumer 
countertop magnetic separator isn’t going to do 
much—toxic metals like mercury won’t respond to 
a magnetic field—there is a fun demo to show how 
this works with iron. Toss a handful of iron-fortified 
breakfast cereal into a blender or plastic bag, 
pulverize until it’s a powder, and then run a strong 
magnet through the powder. You should see small 
black specks coating the surface of the magnet.• Chromatography  separates compounds based 
on how quickly they travel through another 
material. I haven’t seen any home applications of 
chromatography, perhaps because it separates 
things on such a small scale that it doesn’t lead 
to culinary bliss. Try marking a paper towel with a 
row of lines from a few different pens and dipping 
the edge parallel to the lines into a glass of water. 
After a few minutes, you should see the various 
dyes separating out as the water travels through 
the marks and carries the various pigments 
different distances.
Mechanical Filtration
25 White blood cells
35 Flour
40 Smallest visible particles2 Bacteria
4–8 Fat globules in milk
10 Cocoa powder, width of transistors in Intel’s 4004 CPU
8–15 Hydrated rice starch
500  Standard /f_ine mesh strainer
10–20 Coﬀee /f_ilter100 Superbag (100)300 Cheesecloth, single thickness cotton towel400 Superbag (400)60–90 Diameter of typical human hair
229 Size of a pixel on my laptop screen
0.2–5 Syringe /f_ilter
500 Micron = 0.5 mm / 0.02”
0 Microns
Sizes of common items (top portion) and common filters (bottom portion).
Filtering is a process for separating solids from liquids in a slurry. Separation creates two 
quantities: the liquid and the solids that are filtered out. Usually it’s the liquid that we want, 
but the solids can be desirable in some cases. Which filtration method to use depends 
on the particle size of the solids. You probably don’t think of straining spices and larger 
particles from something like broth as filtration, but it is (use a simple wire mesh strainer; Wet Separations 349plastic ones have larger holes, plus they invariably break). In commercial kitchens, a 
chinois —a conical strainer also used for milling soups and mashed potatoes into a finer 
texture—is commonly used too.
The interesting stuff with filtration happens at much smaller sizes, and is done in two 
general ways: the old-fashioned “hey, smaller and smaller holes” way (like running puréed 
nut milks through a strainer lined with cheesecloth), and a modern method using gels.
You can make your own almond milk by pureéing presoaked almonds and then filtering 
the purée through a standard kitchen strainer lined with cheesecloth or a clean terrycloth 
towel, which can trap particulates down in the ~300 micron range (gather up the edges of 
the towel and squeeze to let the liquid through, if necessary). Or “go industrial” and filter 
out fine particles with mesh filter sieves—these are heat-safe, reusable, and highly durable 
filters, typically used by the food industry in pressurized systems but fun to play with at 
home (search for part 6805K31 on http://www.mcmaster.com ).
The more interesting way to filter really small particles is with gels, 
which can be used to separate out the smallest of solids that produce 
cloudiness in otherwise clear liquids. Gels work by trapping the 
particulates, and then the gel structure itself can be removed. The 
technique isn’t modern: consommé , a clear soup made by clarifying stock 
or broth, is traditionally made by simmering egg whites in the liquid, 
which bind to particulates and then coagulate and float, forming a large 
mass that’s easily removed. And beer and wine makers use isinglass , a 
collagen derived from fish bladders, to filter the liquids: the isinglass 
binds with yeast, making denser particles that flocculate and precipitate 
out. (Sorry, vegetarian beer lovers.) 
The two common compounds for creating gels for gel filtration are  gelatin and agar. If 
you’re clarifying stock, the gelatin will already be present (from the bones); otherwise, add 
gelatin or agar (see page 423 for more on agar) to set the gel and then squeeze it through 
a towel—like the previous description of making almond milk—taking care not to squeeze 
too hard lest you end up with the gel breaking down and squeezing out of the towel too.
There’s a second, even-more-clever trick that you can do with gel clarifications: drip-
thawing. Instead of squeezing the gel through a cheesecloth or towel, freeze and then thaw 
the gelled liquid in a towel-lined strainer over a bowl (make sure it’s totally frozen before 
thawing it; and if it’s going to take longer than an hour or two to thaw, thaw it in the fridge 
for food safety reasons). If the liquid you’re clarifying doesn’t naturally gel, you should add 
either gelatin (at ~0.5% concentration) or agar (at ~0.25% concentration) to your liquid. The 
downside of drip-thawing is the time it takes, but you can get clear liquids without needing 
to hit up the nearest centrifuge.
A modern technique for making clarified 
liquids is to freeze the liquid and drip-
thaw it through a mesh filter sieve.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 350Basic White Stock
White stock is one of those ingredients that’s 
considered foundational to cooking, but given the 
time commitment and the need for bones, most 
home cooks just buy a container of it when it’s called 
for in soups and gravies. 
Homemade stock is different from the stuff you buy 
at the store: it has gelatin in it, so it will set into a 
gel when chilled. Next time you find yourself with a 
pile of leftover bones, try making stock from scratch. 
(You can also ask for “chicken backs” at your 
grocery store.)
In a large stockpot (6 quart / 6 liter), add the 
following and sweat the vegetables until they 
begin to soften, about 5–10 minutes:
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) olive oil
 1 (100g) carrot, diced
 2 (100g) celery ribs, diced
 1 medium (100g) onion, diced
Add:
 4 pounds (2 kg) bones, such as chicken, 
veal, or beef
Cover ingredients with water and bring the pot to 
a slow boil. Add aromatic herbs and spices, such as 
a few bay leaves, a bunch of thyme, or whatever 
suits your taste. Try star anise, ginger root, cinnamon sticks, cloves, peppercorns, and Kaffir 
lime leaves for something closer to the stock used 
in Vietnamese Phở.
If you have a pressure cooker, transfer the liquid 
into it and cook it under high pressure for 30 
minutes.
Otherwise, simmer the liquid on a burner set to 
low: 2–3 hours for chicken bones; 6–8 for thicker 
and heavier bones. Strain and cool the stock; then 
transfer it to the fridge.
Here’s what straining a batch of white stock in 
various ways yields, starting with the coarsest 
straining and going progressively finer. (I 
removed the bones and vegetable matter with a 
~5,000-micron spider strainer before running the 
stock through the 500-micron filter.)
Note
• To make a brown stock, cook the bones in a 
roasting pan for one hour at 400°F / ~200°C, 
and then add ½ cup (~70g) tomato paste 
in addition to the carrot, celery ribs, and 
onion listed. Roast the stock for another half 
hour, then transfer it to a large stockpot and 
simmer it on a burner set to low, per previous 
instructions.
500 micron: stuff caught by a 
chinois or fine strainer.
300 micron: stuff caught 
by a cotton towel.
    100 micron: stuff caught 
by a mesh filter.Wet Separations 351Centrifuges in the Kitchen
Centrifuges are like your washing machine’s spin cycle gone mad. By spinning objects—clothes, 
sample vials, tomato juice—at high speeds around a fixed axis, centripetal acceleration causes 
denser items to separate out faster from lighter things by a process called sedimentation .
Sedimentation normally happens with gravity and time. This causes seasonings to drift to 
the bottom of salad dressings or packaged items to settle beneath all the foam packing 
peanuts in a box (although I swear sometimes shippers just stick my order in the box first).
Centrifuges apply way more acceleration than gravity. A thousand g-forces—that’s a 
thousand times the force Earth’s gravity would exert!—is considered weak by centrifuge 
standards, although strong enough for many culinary uses. Centrifuges generate a lot of force 
(well, technically, acceleration), and that force separates compounds via sedimentation very 
quickly. To put this in perspective, astronauts experience about 2 g-forces during takeoff!
In the culinary world, centrifuges are used by industry. (Low-fat milk does not come from a 
cow on a diet!) High-end chefs use them, too. Tomato juice, when spun up, separates into 
three phases, with the middle one looking like clear water (not yellowish at all!) but tasting 
like tomato. Crushed plant matter—ground nuts, puréed fruits or veggies—can also be 
spun up to similar effect, making nut oils in minutes (the oil separates to the top, being 
less dense) and separating out flavorful fats from other plants, which would otherwise Drip-Filtered Consommé
To make a drip-filtered consommé, start with 
a proper stock—not a store-bought one, which 
won’t contain gelatin. The gelatin is necessary: 
as with the traditional clarification method of 
an egg-white raft, the gelatin is what traps any 
particulates and clarifies the stock.
Once the stock has cooled and gelled (leave it in 
the fridge overnight), transfer it to the freezer 
and let it freeze solid. As the water in the stock 
freezes, it will push the impurities into the 
gelatin. After it’s frozen, put the stock into a filter 
sieve or strainer lined with a cotton towel and let 
it drip-thaw on the counter for an hour, or in the 
fridge until thawed. The filter or towel will hold 
on to the gelatin, while the clear consommé will 
drip through.
Consommé made via 
drip-thawing stock 
(left), compared to the 
original stock (right) 
filtered at 100 microns. 
Note the transparency 
of the consommé!
Place frozen stock in a strainer 
lined with a cotton towel. 
You can freeze the stock in ice 
cube trays, as shown here.
After an hour or two, the stock 
will have thawed, with the 
consommé in the pan and 
the cotton holding on to these 
weird blob shapes of gelatin.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 352be impossible. If you’re lucky enough to have access to a centrifuge, start by 
spinning tomato juice; the shock of seeing water but tasting and smelling 
tomato is an unforgettable experience. Check out http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/centrifuge/  to see more.
Drying
You might not think of drying as a separation, but it is: water is separated via 
evaporation or sublimation when foods are dehydrated. Natural air drying of 
foods is perhaps the oldest preservation method, and it’s a simple method for 
transforming foods into shelf-stable versions that won’t spoil or go moldy. Even 
with modern refrigeration, we still dry foods this way for desirable changes to 
their texture, creating firm dried fruits, chewy beef jerky, and crispy kale chips.
If you’re lucky enough to live in a warm, arid region, any place where the 
summertime sunshine pushes the needle above 85°F / 30°C and keeps the 
humidity well below 60% ( ah, California), drying fruit is an easy task. Pick fully 
ripened fruits, wash and clean them, cut stone fruits in half (removing any pit) 
and other fruits in slices (peppers and tomatoes, both biologically fruits!), and 
soak them for 10–15 minutes in lemon juice (or a ~4% solution of vitamin C). Pat 
the fruits dry, lay them out on a sheet of cheesecloth on top of an oven rack, and 
dry them during the day for a week or so (bring them indoors at night). If you 
think your fruit has any insects or insect eggs, freeze the dried fruit (below 0°F / 
–18°C) for two days or cook it at 160°F / 70°C for half an hour.
Why bother? Well, besides handling an influx of 20 pounds of apricots in a week (I grew up 
with an apricot tree in the backyard), creating your own dried foods can give you access to 
ingredients that far surpass what you can buy or that don’t even exist commercially. Store-
bought paprika, even from good spice sellers, simply cannot compete with what you can 
make at home. Snag some peppers for making paprika, optionally smoke them if you like 
smoked paprika (it’s great with chicken; see page 28), and dry them. Once they’re dried, toss 
them into a blender to pulverize them. (If you have a green thumb, look for NuMex R Naky or 
Paprika Supreme seeds.) 
If you don’t live in an arid climate—or it’s not 
summertime—look into getting a food dehydrator. 
These are essentially boxes with a fan and a heater that 
speed up evaporation by maintaining air temperature 
and blowing aside water vapor. The heater isn’t for 
cooking so much as for maintaining temperature. 
Water, as it evaporates, will drop the food’s surface 
temperature, leading to a slower rate of evaporation; Freeze-drying is also a dehydration process and 
works via sublimation —ice evaporating straight to 
vapor. While it has little impact on shape, flavors, 
or nutritional values, it’s expensive to do, so it’s 
generally used only in cases where water weight is 
an issue, like backpacking and space travel.
Dry low-moisture herbs like 
oregano, rosemary, sage, and 
dill by hanging them upside 
down in a dark, dry place 
until the leaves are brittle 
and crumble when pinched, 
several days to several weeks.Wet Separations 353the heater fixes that issue and gives a slight bump in temperature to speed up evaporation. 
Toss in a bunch of sliced apricots or tomatoes and wait a few hours, and presto, they’re 
dried. (Dip those apricots in melted dark chocolate, by the way. You’re welcome.) 
Food dehydrators can be put to other uses as well. Beef jerky, 
made the old-fashioned way, can spoil or have food safety 
issues when dried too slowly. A dehydrator fixes that. You can 
make other jerkies, too: salmon, deboned and sliced ¼” / ½ 
cm thick and dried for 3–6 hours turns out delicious. Or make 
your own fruit leathers (thin sheets of chewy dried fruit): 
purée fruit mixed with a teaspoon of lemon juice per cup of 
fruit and optionally add sugar to taste, smear the purée on a 
silicone sheet, and dry it. DIY Fruit Roll-Ups!
Crispy Oven Kale Chips
I’m shocked how much some stores charge for a few 
ounces of kale chips. Once you see how easy they 
are to make—no special hardware needed—you 
may want to start selling them yourself with crazy 
markups! 
Kale has become something of a poster-child 
ingredient over the past few years, but it’s not 
going away, just like how beets, another “suddenly 
popular” ingredient a few decades ago, are still 
popular. Kale is here to stay. Slow, long heat is the 
secret to great kale chips.
Preheat the oven to 300°F / 150°C; much hotter 
than this, and your kale chips can burn.
Rinse and pat dry 1 pound (~500g) of kale 
leaves , using any variety you like (I prefer 
Tuscan kale). Rip the stems out by folding each 
leaf in half along the stem, pinching it, and then 
starting at the bottom of the leaf, tearing the 
stem out about two-thirds the way up the leaf. If 
you like smaller kale chips, tear the leaves into 
quarters, but it’s easier to do that after they’re 
cooked.In a bowl, toss the leaves with 2 tablespoons (30 
mL) of olive oil or coconut oil  and ½ teaspoon 
(2g) of sea salt . Feel free to add freshly ground 
black pepper , cayenne pepper , Parmesan 
cheese —anything that’s dry and will bake well. 
Using your fingers, rub the oil and seasoning over 
the leaves, spreading it out.
Lay the kale leaves out on a cookie sheet lined 
with parchment paper and bake them for about 20 
minutes, until crispy.
Note
• The two most common mistakes I see are 
baking them too hot (the kale will toast and 
taste cooked, possibly burned) and not baking 
them long enough (you’ll know if your kale 
chips are chewy). Evaporation, like almost 
everything else in cooking, has a time-at-
temperature “ rate of reaction”: warmer 
temperatures increase the amount of water 
vapor that can be held in air, and circulating 
that water vapor away to replace it with drier 
air will speed up the rate of evaporation.While water boils at 212°F / 100°C, it 
evaporates based on vapor pressure at 
lower temperatures, assuming the relative 
humidity is below 100%. You don’t have 
to heat foods to evaporate their water, 
although increasing the temperature will 
increase the rate of evaporation due to 
changes in vapor pressure. 
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 354
53 Beef Jerky
With just 5 ingredients that take 5 minutes to mix and 5 hours to cook (five-five-five, get 
it?), there’s no excuse for beef jerky lovers to not make their own: it’ll taste better than 
packaged stuff, plus you can season it exactly the way you like.
Beef jerky is shockingly easy to make; it’s probably one of the first things humans ever 
“cooked.” Slice up a good piece of meat, marinate it to add flavor, and dry it out. By 
sufficiently reducing the moisture content, dehydration makes the meat too dry to 
support bacterial growth. Of course, it tastes fantastic as well, which is why jerky is still 
popular today, even with refrigeration.
Fatty cuts of meat will lead to chewier jerky. Leaner cuts of meat left to dry longer will 
come out drier; too long, and it’ll be crispy.
Snag the following five ingredients:
 1–2 pounds (~0.5–1 kg) of high-quality beef (use either top round or sirloin 
cuts; once you’ve tried those, try an eye of round steak if you think you’d 
like slightly fattier jerky)—finished weight will be about a quarter of your 
starting weight
 ½ cup (120 mL) soy sauce
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) sriracha sauce, cayenne pepper, or hot chili powder 
(optional, but gives a nice kick)
 1 teaspoon (2g) freshly ground pepper
 4 tablespoons (50g) brown sugar
Mix the marinade ingredients in a bowl. The marinade adds flavor; feel free to add or 
remove ingredients. Try adding Worcestershire sauce, natural liquid smoke (see page 
403), or your favorite hot sauce—or any other flavors you like!
Slice the beef into thin strips using a sharp knife. If you’re having difficulty keeping 
the meat steady while slicing, pop it in the freezer for an hour to firm it up.
Toss the sliced meat in the marinade. While it’s not necessary to let the meat rest 
in the marinade, you certainly can do so. Coating the meat with the marinade and 
proceeding straight to the drying stage will work just fine and save plenty of time, 
but if you like, stash the covered meat in the fridge for an hour or two.
If you have a food dehydrator, preheat it to ~150°F / 65°C for half an hour. (Check 
the unit’s temperature using a digital probe thermometer; sometimes the units aren’t 
that accurate!) Lay the strips of meat onto the trays and pop them into the unit, 
checking back 5 hours later. If your dehydrator doesn’t pull in fresh air or poorly 
circulates air, a drying time of 24 hours isn’t unreasonable.Wet Separations 355
If you don’t have a food dehydrator, line a baking sheet or tray with foil and place a 
cookie cooling rack on top. Lay out the strips of meat on the rack. Set your oven as 
low as it goes: ideally around 150°F / 65°C and no lower than 145°F / 63°C. (Too hot, 
and the meat will crust over and not dry.) Place your tray in the oven, leaving the 
door cracked open to allow moisture from the jerky to escape the oven and to keep 
the oven slightly cooler than it’s set.
Five hours later, you should be looking at your first batch of jerky.
Before calling it done, though, you should do one more step: handle some safety 
issues. Researchers have found that E. coli  can survive temperatures of 145°F for 10 
hours in these sorts of drying conditions, presumably due to evaporative cooling. 
Our ancestors didn’t deal with this stuff; they’d just get an occasional bad piece and 
get ill (or worse). There are two food safety issues you should consider, though:
• Precontamination : If your meat has Salmonella  or E. coli  along for the ride, 
it is easily handled by a quick low-temperature heating: pop that jerky in an 
oven at 275°F / 135°C for 10 minutes. (Traditionalists might abhor this, but 
it’ll make only subtle changes to the texture.) Alternatively, see page 174 for a 
pretreatment hot-water-dip method, but the recommendation is still to post-treat 
the jerky.
• Shelf stability : Okay, this has never been an issue for me, but that’s because 
I scarf down the jerky pretty much instantly. Still, you should check that you 
really did dry the meat sufficiently; otherwise, the water activity will be too high 
(see page 175). Check that your jerky is sufficiently dried by weighing it: dried 
jerky should weigh about a fourth of the starting weight. Keeping it dry after 
making it is also important. If you live in a humid environment, the jerky will 
pull moisture back in. Store it in an airtight container.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 356
There’s another  way of separating out solids from 
liquids in the kitchen: crystallization .
Unexpected crystallization of sugar or water can 
ruin dishes. Water crystals that grow too large 
can turn ice cream from creamy to sandy, and 
unexpected sugar crystallization while you’re 
making caramel sauce will produce a crystallized 
mess that looks like the frozen surface of 
an exotic planet. On the other hand, proper 
crystallization is what gives chocolate fudge its 
incredible texture. 
Crystallization can 
happen when pure 
substances like sugar 
are in a supersaturated  
state—that is, when 
more sugar is dissolved 
into a solution than will normally occur. Any seed 
crystal, even a microscopic amount of the 
substance arranged in a crystal lattice, can serve 
as a starting point for the substance to 
crystallize. This is why recipes for caramel sauce 
admonish cooks to wet down the sides of the pan 
while boiling off water: this removes any seed 
crystals that could lead to that crackled, 
crystallized mess. (Alternatively, heat slowly and 
don’t stir—stirring accelerates crystal formation.)
Creating a supersaturated solution is easy: 
solvents like water will generally (but not always) 
dissolve more solutes (e.g., sugar) at higher 
temperatures. Dropping the temperature on a 
fully saturated solution leads to the chemistry 
equivalent of an existential crisis: given a seed 
crystal, the solutes will precipitate back out to 
the level needed to return the solution to a fully 
saturated level.
Try making these fancy sugar sticks to see how 
crystals form and grow.First, grab these supplies:
• 1 cup (200g) sugar
• ½ cup (120g) water
• Narrow drinking glass or small jar
• Wooden cooking skewer (a toothpick will 
work, but it’s not as nice to use)
• Tape, such as masking tape
• Plastic wrap
• Something to heat and boil the water in
• Food coloring and flavoring extracts (optional)
Here’s what to do:
1. Dip the wooden skewer into the water to wet 
the first few inches / ~10 cm, and then dip 
it into the sugar. This will coat the skewer 
with seed crystals —starting points for 
crystallization.
2. In a saucepan over a stove or in a microwave-
safe container, mix together the sugar and 
water and briefly boil to completely dissolve 
all the sugar. Allow the mixture to cool for a 
few minutes, then pour it into the drinking 
glass or small jar. If you want to make colored 
or flavored sugar swizzle sticks, add a few 
drops of food coloring or flavoring extract (use 
a glycerin-based one; alcohol-based extracts 
will mostly evaporate away) at this point.
3. Stretch a piece of tape across the top of the 
drinking glass and poke the skewer through the 
tape so that it’s dangling in the center of the 
glass but not touching the bottom. You might 
need to use an extra piece of tape around the 
skewer to keep it from dropping down.
4. Cover the glass or jar with plastic wrap.Lab: Separation via Crystallization (Sugar Swizzle Sticks )Wet Separations 357
5. Set the glass someplace where it won’t be 
disturbed and check it every day as the sugar 
crystals grow. Remove the skewer when the 
sugar crystals have reached the desired size, 
typically after around 5–7 days. (There’s so 
much sugar present that there’s no need to 
refrigerate it—bacteria and mold can’t grow.)
Investigation time!
What do you think would happen if you used less 
sugar? Or if you skipped seeding the stick with 
sugar crystals? 
What would happen if you dissolved the sugar in 
water but didn’t heat the liquid?Maximum amount of solute
per 100 grams water 176°F
80°C212°F
100°C68°F
20°C32°F
0°C104°F
40°C140°F
60°C400 g
0 g600 g
Sugar
(Sucrose)
Salt
(NaCl)200 g
Extra credit:
These instructions use sugar crystals as nucleation 
sites—places where the crystallization can 
occur. In a perfectly smooth container (difficult 
to achieve; even a smooth-feeling glass has 
microscopic bumps), there’s no nucleation site 
for the separation to occur. The same is true for 
freezing liquids like water: the ice crystals need a 
nucleation site to begin to crystallize out. 
What do you think happens when there are no 
nucleation points? Plastic water bottles, still 
sealed from the manufacturer, can be smooth 
enough and free enough of impurities to not 
have any nucleation sites. Try freezing several 
unopened small water bottles for 2–3 hours and 
see if you can create a super-cooled liquid —a 
liquid that’s below its normal freezing point. 
If one of the bottles remains liquid, you’ve got 
a super-cooled bottle of water: pour it into a 
bowl and watch it instantly freeze. For a video 
demonstration, see http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/supercool/ .
Look back at the graph of solubility based on 
temperature. How would you try to make salt 
swizzle sticks? Lab: Separation via Crystallization (Sugar Swizzle Sticks )
Sugar cane can grow 
to be up to 19 feet / 
6 meters tall
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 358Dave Arnold on Industrial Hardware
Dave Arnold is the host of the radio show 
Cooking Issues  and author of Liquid 
Intelligence  (Norton, 2014). He previously 
taught at the French Culinary Institute in 
New York City, where he instructed students 
about modern techniques and equipment.
How do you get someone to 
make the mental leap to think 
analytically, and to think outside 
the box, while in the kitchen?
For people who don’t naturally think 
this way, you can’t expect them to 
start organically. You just want to give 
them another set of tools to work with 
in the kitchen. So we take something 
that they take for granted, like cooking 
eggs, and then break it into a zillion little 
components. We set up grids where we 
manipulate single variables. This means 
that we look at two variables at once in 
a grid format—for example, time against 
temperature—and manipulate one 
variable to see how it affects the other.
One of the classic examples is coffee. 
The variables are knowable, but why is 
so much coffee, specifically espresso, 
terrible? There are plenty of people 
that have machines that are good 
enough. It’s good to think analytically. 
If you’re messing around with coffee and you’re changing x, y, and z, it’s 
the equivalent of standing in front of 
a big control board with a bunch of 
dials and then just spinning the dials. 
To teach someone to make good 
coffee, you have to teach them how to 
lock down all their variables and then 
alter them one at a time. When you’re 
making espresso, most people choose 
to alter their grinds as their variable. 
They find that it’s easier to lock in the 
temperature, the dosing, the pressure, 
and then manipulate grinds. It teaches 
them how to manipulate variables and 
think analytically about something.
If we’re trying to figure out the variable 
of temperature with eggs, we’ll just do 
it. I’ll use a circulator to cook 10 eggs 
at very precise temperatures. We’ll do 
it multiple times and we’ll crack them 
and see what the behavior is. Or we’ll 
teach people how to make grids to test 
two different variables in order to figure 
out something like the effect of heat on 
searing meat. We’ll set up a tasting grid 
and they can taste it. I think this helps 
people to pick up that skill. It’s all about 
control and the ability to observe.
What sort of hardware have you 
repurposed for the kitchen?
Basically, a chef is going to want to 
steal anything that can help them heat 
differently or homogenize or blend 
differently. Most of what we use that 
has been repurposed isn’t necessarily 
our own ideas. You can crib things off of 
other people. Everyone is using liquid 
nitrogen now, which is fantastic stuff.
Even stuff normally found in the kitchen 
we just use in a different way. A lot of 
people are doing interesting work with pressure cooking nowadays. We use 
ultrasonic cleaners and rotovaps a lot. 
We’ve been running some experiments 
on torches recently. Why do things that 
are hit with torches taste like torch? 
I’m beginning to think that it’s the 
component added to gases to make 
them smell so that you can tell when 
you have a leak. I think the torch flavor 
is due to not fully combusting all of the 
stinky stuff. I wanted to crisp something 
big, and so I fired up the roofing torch 
with propane, and it didn’t taste bad. I 
tried to shoot a regular torch through 
a screen to see whether we could 
combust any of the torch smell by 
capturing it on the screen and blowing 
it through. That also works.
How do you balance experimenting 
with safety?
Teach yourself as much as you can about 
the risks involved with any potential new 
endeavor. The Internet is also good for 
that, because there are plenty of people 
who’ve already hurt themselves. Do a 
lot of research; read a lot of things. There 
are a lot of opinions out there, and what 
one person says may not necessarily be 
true. It doesn’t take too much Googling 
around to find out that someone has 
already tried to carbonate something 
by sticking dry ice in a soda bottle and 
gotten a bunch of shattered plastic in his 
face as a result.
You don’t want to stifle anyone’s 
creativity or their desire to hack around 
and do things, because that’s the fun 
of it. But it has to be tempered with a 
certain amount of base knowledge. 
Things are dangerous under three 
circumstances: one, if you don’t know the 
procedure at all. That’s what happened PHOTO OF DAVE ARNOLD USED BY PERMISSION OF JEFF ELKINS  
HTTP://JEFFELKINSPHOTO.COMWet Separations 359but then we crowded the pan—all the 
things that you’re not supposed to do 
with a mushroom.
The amazing thing was not that it didn’t 
make a difference in cooking them, 
but that the ones that we had soaked 
and crowded were better . The reason is 
because while the soaked mushrooms 
are sitting there giving off their water 
and stewing in their own juices, they’re 
collapsing. It’s no longer a sponge 
to soak up oil, so by the time all the 
water had boiled off and they started 
sautéing they had already collapsed, 
and they weren’t absorbing the oil. The 
nonsoaked mushrooms, at the end of 
sautéing, had soaked up all of the oil 
and in fact wanted more oil. The ones 
that had been soaked hadn’t even 
absorbed all of the oil. Some of the oil 
was still left in the pan.
So just by normal observation, because 
we had measured things and were 
trying to figure out what was going on, 
we realized that everything that they 
teach you about mushrooms is wrong. 
You’re not going to measure every time, 
but you would never pick up on stuff 
like that unless you were really thinking 
analytically about what’s going on.
I think it’s actually the key to a lot of this. 
I think there is a certain something that 
drives some people to go to lengths, 
when other people just kind of shrug 
their shoulders and end up not being 
as curious.
Right, and that’s why Harold McGee’s 
website is called “The Curious Cook.” A 
lot of it is about curiosity, and then after 
curiosity—and here’s where the real 
geek thing comes in—is the ability and 
willingness to actually do something 
about the curiosity. Go the stupid extra 
length. Just see whether you can do it. Unilever donated a centrifuge to us, 
and I had more time just to play around. 
Now we’re doing a lot of things like 
making our own nut oils, or clarifying 
things like apple juice, where we’re 
spinning it down to increase our yield. 
Also, you can blend olives, cured ones 
like Kalamata, and then you spin them. 
It breaks into three layers. You have the 
best olive brine ever for a dirty martini, 
hands down. You have a completely 
flavorless middle layer you throw away. 
Then you have a really interesting layer 
of olive oil from cured olives. That’s kind 
of fun. Expensive, though.
We’re taking things into the kitchen 
that aren’t from the kitchen, not just 
laboratory equipment. There’s a whole 
group of people that make their own 
chocolates. They use a stone grinder 
from India that’s used to grind dal. 
We’ve taken that, and we’re making 
things that have the textural properties 
of chocolate, which aren’t related 
to chocolate at all, like ketchup and 
mustard. Most stuff in the kitchen is 
going to be equipment-based, but it’s 
not necessarily new technology or lab 
technology. Sometimes it’s just learning 
new techniques. It’s more of an attitude.
I’ll give you another example: how are 
you supposed to cook mushrooms? 
You’re not supposed to soak 
mushrooms. They always tell you to 
wipe off your mushrooms.
I usually just do a quick wash. My 
take has always been that it doesn’t 
actually absorb that much water.
It actually does. Mushrooms are little 
sponges, but here is the thing: our 
contention has always been that it’s just 
going to take longer to cook. Which is 
true. We did a test where not only did 
we soak the mushrooms in slice form to the soda bottle guy. He didn’t know 
the procedures. Two, you’re completely 
frightened of something, a piece of 
equipment or a knife. If you decide to use 
it anyway, you’re more likely to get hurt. 
Three, when you become complacent. 
If you’re an inherently cautious person 
and you don’t become complacent, 
that’s the safest way to do these kinds of 
experiments.
What about the safety of used 
equipment, such as lab gear?
When I got my  centrifuge, we bleached 
and pressure-cooked any parts that 
would touch any food. When I got my 
rotovap, I soaked that sucker in a bleach 
solution and then in boiling water, and 
then boiling water and bleach. You have 
biological contaminants and you have 
poisonous contaminants—all sorts of 
contaminants. I feel pretty okay that 
with stainless and glass I can get rid of 
most bad inorganic stuff, but you just 
have to pray that you wash enough to 
get rid of all the organic stuff. From a 
biological hazards standpoint, you’re 
worried about prions, you’re worried that 
someone has been blending up cow 
brains doing Creutzfeldt–Jakob research 
or something like that. You can’t cook 
it away; they’re heat-stable. Then you’re 
counting on mechanical washing.
I’m curious, what do you do with a 
centrifuge?
A lot of people buy centrifuges 
because they think they’re going to 
get awesome results with a centrifuge. 
What you really need to do is borrow 
someone else’s first. All a centrifuge 
does is separate things based on 
density.
If you’re cooking, you want a lot of 
product, because you want to serve 
a lot of people. It’s not often feasible. 
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 360Distillation and Rotovaps
Evaporation is normally used to get rid of liquid, 
but what if you want to capture that liquid 
instead? Distillation —evaporating a liquid from 
a mixture and then condensing it into another 
container—separates out solutions based on their 
physical properties. This process can separate 
one liquid from another based on differences in 
boiling points, purify a liquid by leaving behind 
whatever residues were in solution, or use a liquid 
as a carrier for volatile aromatic compounds to 
extract them, as is done for perfumes.
The history of  distillation goes way back: the 
ancient Greeks were known to distill water 
in the first century; East Asian cultures were 
distilling an alcoholic drink, arrack , as far back 
as 800 BCE, and presumably even earlier. These 
early distillation setups involved nothing more 
than a container that could be heated and a way 
to trap and condense the vapors as the liquids 
evaporated. You can think of it like boiling water 
in a pot on the stove and having a way to collect 
the steam that  condenses on the lid.
Modern chemists use rotary evaporators 
(rotovaps ), fancy tools that improve on the 
historical setups. Rotovaps are designed to 
precisely and accurately control both temperature 
and pressure, giving fine-grained control over the 
rate of evaporation of various compounds (rarely 
are there just two compounds in play). Chefs have 
made flavorings using a rotovap and everything 
from common vanilla to offbeat items such as 
“sea” (using sand) and “the woods” (damp dirt 
from the forest).
One major advantage of modern equipment is 
distilling under a vacuum, which lowers the 
boiling point of the solvent (usually water or 
ethanol). By dropping the boiling point, this 
technique leaves any volatile compounds that 
are heat-unstable undisturbed and uncooked when evaporated, allowing for a larger variety of 
aromatic flavors to be separated out.
Rotovaps  can also be used to remove solvents 
from a food: reducing water to increase the 
concentration of fresh-squeezed juices without 
giving them a cooked flavor, removing alcohol 
to make whiskey essence, or distilling away 
both alcohol and water to make sauces such 
as port syrup without changing their flavor. 
Unfortunately, rotovaps, like centrifuges, are 
expensive , and the process of distilling liquids 
with ethanol is heavily regulated. For this reason, 
we’re not going to cover how to use them—they’re 
beyond the realm of practical culinary use—
but if you have access to one, try exploring food 
applications. If you’re curious to read more about 
rotovaps in cooking, see http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/rotovap/ .
This drawing shows how the 3rd century Greek alchemist 
Zosimos performed distillations. A container with liquid 
was heated up, turning the liquid into gas, which was then 
captured and allowed to condense into a separate container.Chilling Out with Liquid Nitrogen and Dry Ice 361Chilling Out with Liquid Nitrogen and Dry Ice
If there were one food-related science demo to rule them all, ice cream made with liquid 
nitrogen would surely be the winner. Large billowy clouds, the titillating excitement of 
danger, evil mad-scientist cackles, and it all ends with something delicious for everyone? Sign 
me up.
While the gimmick of liquid nitrogen 
ice cream never seems to grow old 
(heck, they were making it over 
a hundred years ago at the Royal 
Institution in London), a number of 
more recent culinary applications 
are moving liquid nitrogen (LN2, for 
those in the know) from the “gimmick” 
category into the “occasionally useful” 
column.
But first, a digression into the dangers 
of liquid nitrogen. Nitrogen is mostly 
inert and in and of itself harmless, 
making up 78% of the air we breathe.The major risks are thermal  shock and freeze burns, 
suffocation, and explosions. Let’s take each of those in turn:
• It’s cold. Liquid nitrogen boils at –320°F / –196°C. To put that in perspective, it’s 
further away from room temperature than oil in a deep-fat fryer: seriously cold. 
Thermal shock and breaking things are very real concerns with liquid nitrogen. 
Think about what can happen when you’re working with hot oil, and show more 
respect when working with liquid nitrogen. Pouring 400°F / 200°C oil into a room-
temperature glass pan is not a good idea (thermal shock), so avoid pouring liquid 
nitrogen into a glass pan. Splashes are also a potential problem, especially for your 
eyes. Gloves, eye protection, and closed-toe shoes are all good ideas.
• It’s not oxygen. This means that you can asphyxiate as a result of the oxygen 
being displaced in a small room. When using liquid nitrogen, make sure you’re 
in a relatively well-ventilated space. Dorm room with the door closed = bad; big 
kitchen space with open windows and good air circulation = okay.
• It’s boiling. When things evaporate, they like to expand, and when they can’t, the 
pressure goes up. When the pressure gets high enough, the container fails and 
turns into a bomb. Don’t ever  store liquid nitrogen in a completely sealed container. 
The container will rupture at some point. Ice plugs can form in narrow-mouth 
openings, too, so avoid stuffing things like cotton into the opening.Absolute
Zero
Nitrogen Boils
–320ºF / –196ºCEthanol Freezes
–173.2ºF / –114ºC
Freezing point of
saltwater at 
full saturation
–6ºF / –21.1ºCDry Ice Sublimates
–109.3ºF / –78.5ºC
Coldest recorded 
temperature on
Earth (Vostok Station,
Antarctica)
–128.5ºF / –89.2ºCDeep Chest Freezers
–4ºF / –20ºC
–459.4ºF
–273ºC
0K
0ºF -100ºF -200ºF -300ºF -400ºF
Common and uncommon cold temperatures.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 362
“Yeah, yeah, ” you say, “thanks, but I’ll be fine. ”
Probably. But that’s what most people think who end up being given, posthumously 
(posthumorously?), a Darwin Award (for stupid actions that eliminated them from the gene 
pool). What could possibly go wrong once you get it home? One German chef blew both 
hands off while attempting to follow a liquid nitrogen–based recipe. And then there’s what 
happened when someone at Texas A&M University removed the pressure-release valve on 
a large dewar—an insulated container designed to handle liquid gases—and welded the 
opening shut. From the accident report:
The cylinder had been standing at one end of a ~20’ × 40’ laboratory on the second floor 
of the chemistry building. It was on a tile-covered, 4–6” thick concrete floor, directly over 
a reinforced concrete beam. The explosion blew all of the tile off of the floor for a 5’ radius 
around the tank, turning the tile into quarter-sized pieces of shrapnel that embedded 
themselves in the walls and doors of the lab… The cylinder came to rest on the third floor, 
leaving a neat 20”-diameter hole in its wake. The entrance door and wall of the lab were 
blown out into the hallway. All of the remaining walls of the lab were blown 4 to 8” off of 
their foundations. All of the windows, save one that was open, were blown out into the 
courtyard.
“Okay, I promise to be safe. Where do I get some?”
Look for a scientific gas distributor in your area. Some welding supply 
stores also carry liquid nitrogen. You’ll need a dewar. Dewars come in 
two types: nonpressurized and pressurized. Nonpressurized dewars are 
essentially large insulated containers and are what you should use. The 
pressurized variety has a pressure-release valve—allowing the liquid 
nitrogen to remain liquid at higher temperatures, increasing the hold 
time—and is generally supplied with larger industrial orders.
Small quantities of liquid nitrogen in nonpressurized dewars don’t require hazmat licenses 
or vehicle placarding when properly secured and transported in a private car (at least 
where I live). Some jurisdictions consider it a hazardous material, though—after all, handled 
improperly, it can and will cause death—so check into transportation of “material of trades” 
for your locale. 
When it comes to working with liquid nitrogen, I find it easiest to work with a small quantity 
in a metal bowl placed on top of a wooden cutting board. Keep your eyes on the container, 
and avoid placing yourself in a situation where, if the container were to fail, you would find 
yourself getting splashed.
Don’t sit at a table while working with it. And placing a noninsulated container, such as 
a metal bowl, directly on the countertop is not a good idea. I once cracked a very nice 
countertop with an empty but still cold bowl during a talk (I’m still sheepishly apologizing 
for it).Standard lab safety protocols for 
driving small quantities of liquid 
nitrogen around usually state 
that two people should be in the 
car and that you should drive 
with the windows down.
Chilling Out with Liquid Nitrogen and Dry Ice 363
One final tip: when serving guests something straightaway after contact with liquid 
nitrogen, use a digital thermometer to check the temperature to make sure the food is 
warm enough. As a guideline, standard consumer freezers run around –10°F / –23°C.
Making Dusts
One of the classic “silly things you can do with liquid nitrogen” is to freeze a leaf or a rose 
and then whack it against something to shatter it. Unlike traditional methods of freezing, 
liquid nitrogen freezes the water in the plant so quickly that the ice crystals do not have 
time to aggregate into crystals large enough to pierce the cell walls and destroy the tissue, 
meaning the leaf or flower won’t wilt when thawed.
In culinary applications, you can use this same property to create “dust” from plant material. 
Lavender flowers, for example, can be rapidly frozen, crushed with a mortar and pestle 
(which need to be chilled in a freezer to keep the frozen plant material from thawing), and 
then allowed to thaw back out. Some chefs have frozen larger items—beets, for example—
causing them to shatter in an organic pattern that couldn’t be obtained with a knife.
Making Ice Cream
The standard formula for LN2 ice cream goes something like this: 
  cream + flavoring + liquid nitrogen + whisking / mixing = 30-second ice cream
Unlike with traditional ice cream bases, you don’t have to worry about the 
ratio of fats to water to sugar, at least for ice cream that will be consumed 
immediately. (Like there’s any other type.) Traditional ice cream bases rely on 
precise ratios of the ingredients to get something that has a freezing point 
over a broad range, making for some fascinating microscopic-level structures. 
Liquid nitrogen ice cream is closer to soft-serve ice cream: it’s frozen right at 
the point of consumption and isn’t set as hard. Freezing a batch of LN2 ice 
cream will give you something closer to a block of frozen milk if the milk fat 
ratios aren’t high enough.
The other benefit to LN2 ice cream is the lower temperatures in play, which are cold enough 
to freeze ethanol. While you can make ice cream with a small quantity of alcohol using 
traditional methods, in those versions the alcohol brings only a mild flavor. With liquid 
nitrogen, you can make a scoop of ice cream flavored with enough alcohol to really kick the 
flavor up, producing results unlike anything you’ve had before.
To watch a video of making liquid nitrogen ice cream, see http://cookingforgeeks.
com/book/icecream/ .
Be sure to take the 
necessary safety 
precautions!
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 364
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream
This is my favorite flavor of LN2 ice cream, probably because it’s 20% Goldschläger, 9% 
alcohol, and 100% delicious. It’s a great example of an ice cream that can’t be made 
using a traditional method.
In the metal bowl of a stand mixer, mix:
 1 cup (240 mL) milk
 1 cup (240 mL) heavy cream
 ¾ cup (180 mL) Goldschläger (cinnamon schnapps)
 ¼ cup (60 mL) chocolate syrup
 3 ounces (85g) bittersweet chocolate, melted
 2 tablespoons (25g) sugar
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
 ½ teaspoon (1g) cinnamon
Taste the mixture to check the balance (try not to drink it all at this point), and 
adjust accordingly. Once frozen, the mixture will not taste as strong, so an overly 
strong mixture is desirable.
Turn your stand mixer on and (carefully! with goggles and gloves!) slowly pour in 
the liquid nitrogen. I find it takes about a 1:1 ratio of mixture to liquid nitrogen to 
set the ice cream. If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can also do this in a metal 
bowl and stir with a whisk or wooden spoon.
Note
• To melt the chocolate, microwave the milk and then add the chocolate to the hot 
milk. Let it rest for a minute, so the chocolate warms up, and then mix 
to combine. You can nuke the chocolate directly as well, but I 
find it easier and less likely to burn doing it this way.
Chilling Out with Liquid Nitrogen and Dry Ice 365
Playing with Dry Ice
Dry ice —solid  carbon dioxide—is easier to work 
with than liquid nitrogen. For one thing, it’s solid, 
so you don’t need specialized equipment to handle 
it. A Styrofoam cooler or even a cardboard box 
is sufficient. And second, it’s much more readily 
available, sometimes even at your grocery store or 
butcher shop. (Ask for food-grade  dry ice! It’s free 
of any machinery residues.) Besides sticking a 
chunk of dry ice in a cup of coffee and pretending 
not to notice while drinking from it (the chunk 
will sink to the bottom; sip carefully), what else 
can you do?
Quick-freeze berries. Industry lingo for this is 
IQF (individually quick frozen), in which large 
blast freezers rapidly freeze individual peas, 
raspberries, and chicken breasts. You can toss 
some dry ice in a Styrofoam cooler and mix in a 
roughly equal amount of berries or veggies, wait 
until the dry ice has sublimated away, and then 
bag ’em and stick ’em in the freezer.
Make ice cream. Dry ice doesn’t create ice cream 
anywhere near as nicely as liquid nitrogen, but it’s a lot easier for folks to get their hands on, so it’s 
worth mentioning. Take your food-grade dry ice, 
place it between two towels on a cutting board, 
and give it a few whacks with something like a 
rubber mallet or the bottom of a frying pan to 
create a powder. Whisk the powder into a metal 
bowl with your ice cream base (see page 192) until 
set. It’ll taste a little carbonated, so pick a base 
that goes well with that (say, fruit sorbet). As 
with LN2 ice cream, it’ll take a little less dry ice 
if you start with a base already at near-freezing 
temperatures.
Create “fizzy fruit.”  Drop some grapes, bananas, 
strawberries—really, any moist fruit—into a 
pressure cooker, toss in some dry ice, and slap on 
the lid. As the dry ice sublimates, the chamber of 
the pressure cooker will hold the carbon dioxide 
(and, very importantly, bleed off any over-
pressure amount), and the fruit will absorb some 
CO2. Wait 20–30 minutes, release the pressure, pop 
off the lid, and munch away.
A Few Dry Ice Warnings
Like liquid nitrogen, dry ice expands into a much larger volume as it sublimates. Do not store dry 
ice in a sealed container. It also displaces oxygen, so don’t use large amounts in a small enclosed 
space.
Dry ice and liquids can form a wet slurry that is very dangerous. It’s not cold enough to generate 
the Leidenfrost effect , the phenomenon where a liquid generates an insulating vapor barrier around 
a much-hotter item. Dry ice mixed with ethanol can wick through clothing and stick to skin at a 
blistering –98°F / –72°C.
Don’t touch dry ice with your bare hands. Any moisture on your hand will practically weld the dry 
ice to your skin and cause serious damage: dry ice by itself is at –109°F / –79°C.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 366
How to Make Your Own “Anti-Griddle”
If a griddle cooks foods by adding heat, it should 
follow that an anti-griddle “cooks” foods by 
removing heat. A few high-end restaurants make 
some of their novelty dishes using a super-chilled 
surface to set the outside of gels and puddings in 
a few seconds, creating a food that’s crunchy-cold 
on the outside and creamy warm in the middle, 
almost like a molten ice cream pop.
You can make a do-it-yourself version by using dry 
ice, ethanol, and a flat piece of metal, like a mini–
cookie sheet. (I happen to have a small chunk of 
stainless steel that I ordered from an industrial 
supply house, so that’s what I use.)
Here’s how it works:
1. Rig up a bed of crushed dry ice. Try using 
a cookie sheet placed on top of a wooden 
cutting board. The cookie sheet will hold the 
dry ice/ethanol slurry, 
and the cutting board 
will provide insulation 
between the extremely 
cold cookie sheet 
and your countertop. 
Alternatively, if you 
have the lid to a 
Styrofoam container, 
using the inside, 
indented part can serve 
both purposes.2. Pour a small amount of rubbing alcohol (or 
cheap vodka) onto the bed of crushed dry 
ice—enough to create a level top. The ethanol 
will remove any air gap between the pieces of 
dry ice and the “griddle” surface, and it won’t 
cause the dry ice to froth in billowy clouds 
like water would.
3. Plop the square of metal on top of the ethanol-
topped dry ice. It should be a complete contact 
fit. Give it a few minutes to chill.
4. Coat the top surface of the stainless steel with 
a nonstick cooking spray, butter, or oil.
5. Drop the food you want to freeze on the 
surface, smoothing it out into a flat disc 
shape if desired. You can make a frozen 
lollipop by dropping a popsicle stick or skewer 
into the liquid as it sets; after 10 seconds or 
so, use a spatula to flip it and set the other 
side. Or you can try the chocolate mousse 
recipe from earlier in this chapter (see page 
301); almost any pudding or thick custard 
base will work.
Cooking with a Lot of Heat 367
Cooking with a Lot of Heat
20 minutes at 300 degrees is the equivalent of 5 minutes at…let’s see…
(mumbles) 1,200 degrees.
—Marge Simpson, baking a cake (“24 Minutes”)
550ºF / 290ºC 
Highest temperature
in most consumer ovens
500ºF
 1500ºF
 2000ºF
 2500ºF
 3000ºF 3500ºF
 650–700ºF / 340–370ºC 
Gas grills and gas stovetops
800–950ºF / 425–510ºC Wood and charcoal grills1,000ºF / 540ºC Oven on cleaning cycle3,595ºF / 1,979ºC 
Propane’s maximum 
combustion temperature
Common and uncommon hot temperatures.
If cooking at 300°F / 150°C produces something yummy, surely cooking at 1,200°F / 650°C 
must do the same in a quarter the time. Well, okay, not quite—if I said anything otherwise, 
hopefully your mental model of how heat is transferred through food and the importance 
of time and temperature would have you slamming this book shut while muttering 
something unfit to print.
But there are some fun edge cases, just as there are with “cold cooking, ” where extremely 
high heat can be used to achieve interesting results. (And dangerous results—lighting your 
barbecue in two seconds with liquid oxygen? Yikes.) Let’s take a look at a few dishes that 
you can make by transferring lots of heat using blowtorches and high-temperature ovens, 
without melting the appliances.
In cooking, we generally avoid heating the surface temperatures of 
food above 380°F / 195°C, for good reason: that’s about the upper limit 
for burnt sugar to not taste like charcoal. Above this temperature, the 
next set of chemical reactions involves proteins and carbohydrates just 
tasting nasty. But in small quantities, we enjoy some of these reactions, 
using words like charred —char  having an etymology of “to blacken, ” 
hence charcoal . Charred, grilled, barbecue: all these words describe 
foods whose surface temperatures get hot enough to just barely burn, 
and that’s where broilers, searing-hot pans, and grills all come in: they 
transfer a lot of heat into food. But what about cases where you want to 
transfer a lot of heat to just one part of a food? Break out a blowtorch.
You can create a quick work surface 
for blowtorching by flipping a 
cookie sheet upside down and 
setting the ramekins on top.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 368
Quinn’s Crème Brûlée
My friend Quinn makes the most amazing crème 
brûlée , French for “burnt cream.” (I suppose 
“carbonized sugar” doesn’t sound good, even in 
French?)
Prepare six ramekins for baking by placing them 
in a large glass baking dish; set aside. Preheat the 
oven to 325°F / 160°C.
In a bowl, separate out 5 large egg yolks (90g) , 
saving the egg whites for some other dish, such 
as egg white frittata (see page 13). Whisk the egg 
yolks until they’re light and frothy; set the bowl 
aside.
In a saucepan, measure out:
 2 cups (480 mL) heavy cream
 ½ cup (100g) sugar
Heavy cream and whipping cream are essentially 
the same thing in the United States; elsewhere, 
look for “single cream.” Heavy cream usually 
has a slightly higher percentage of fat, while 
whipping cream typically has a stabilizer such as 
carrageenan added, but you can usually use either 
one regardless of what is called for.
Cut a vanilla bean  lengthwise and use the edge 
of a spoon to scrape out the seeds. Add both 
the seeds and the bean to the saucepan. Set the 
burner to medium heat and cook the cream, sugar, 
and vanilla for 10 minutes, stirring continuously. 
Meanwhile, in a separate pot, bring to a boil 
enough water to partially fill the glass baking 
dish holding the ramekins.
After the cream mixture has been cooked for 10 
minutes, fetch out the vanilla bean and discard it. 
Strain the mixture through a ~400-micron filter 
(cheesecloth works fine) into a measuring cup or 
other container that’s easy to pour from.Set the bowl with the egg yolks on the counter, 
where you can whisk the yolks with one hand 
and hold the saucepan with the other. Slowly 
drizzle the hot cream mixture into the egg yolks, 
whisking the entire time to prevent the hot cream 
from cooking the egg yolks. Too slow is okay; 
too fast, and you’ll end up with scrambled eggs. 
(Sweet, tasty scrambled eggs, to be sure.)
Ladle the mixture into the six ramekins, taking 
care to not transfer any foam that you may have 
whisked up. (The foam will float and set on top of 
the brûlée.) Add the boiling water into the baking 
dish—enough to reach halfway up the sides of the 
ramekins—and transfer the dish to the oven.
Bake until the centers of the custards jiggle just 
a little when shaken, about 30–35 minutes. They 
should reach an internal temperature of 180°F / 
82°C. Remove the ramekins from the baking dish 
and chill them in the fridge until cold, about 3 
hours. (You can store them longer, of course.)
Once the custards are cold, sprinkle a thin coating 
of sugar over the tops. Using a blowtorch, melt and 
caramelize the sugar, sweeping the flame slowly 
across the surface until you’re happy with the 
color and appearance. Keep in mind that darker 
sugar will be more bitter; also make sure to at least 
melt all of the sugar; otherwise, the granulated, 
unmelted sugar will give an odd mouth-feel.
Transfer the ramekins to the fridge and store for 
10 minutes to allow the sugar to cool; then serve. 
You can hold the torched brûlée for up to an hour 
before the sugary crust begins to get soggy.
Note
• Try infusing other flavors into the cream as you 
cook it, such as orange zest, instant coffee, 
cocoa powder, or tea leaves.Cooking with a Lot of Heat 369
“Upgrade” Bananas Foster—a simple and 
tasty dessert with butter and sugar and cooked 
bananas—by sprinkling sugar on the cooked 
bananas and then using a blowtorch to caramelize 
the sugar. Need a quick work surface? Flip a cast 
iron pan upside down and line it with foil.
Blowtorches can be used to provide very localized heat, enabling you to cook just those 
parts of the food at which you aim the flame. (Flamethrowers can be used too. I’m not 
going to confess to how much time I spent watching videos I found when searching for 
“flamethrower cooking. ”) Torching tuna sushi keeps the interior raw but adds that charred 
flavor. Roasting peppers blisters their skin off without overcooking the inside. Browning 
meats cooked at low heat (sous vide or poached) quickly finishes off the outside. And, of 
course, creating the sugary crust on crème brûlée is the canonical excuse for a blowtorch in 
the kitchen. (A broiler will work too, if you run out of fuel.) 
When it comes to buying a torch, skip the “gourmet” torches and head to a hardware store 
to pick up a real blowtorch. The smaller torches sold specifically for the kitchen work okay, 
but they don’t pack the same thermal punch as the hardware-store variety, which have 
larger nozzles and thus larger flames. Depending on taste sensitivity, some people may 
notice an “unburned fuel” taste (sometimes called “torch taste”) created by the fats and 
compounds in meat breaking down under extremely high temperature (fat is fuel, after all, 
and undergoes chemical reactions). If you’re noticing this, back off on the heat, and if your 
torch allows for it, increase the amount of air being mixed in! 
Practice using a blowtorch by melting sugar sprinkled on a sheet of aluminum foil on top 
of a metal cookie sheet or cast iron pan. Don’t get the flame too close; this is the most 
common mistake people make when cooking with a blowtorch. The blue part of the 
flame is hottest, but the surrounding air beyond the tip will still be plenty hot. (You’ll 
know you’re definitely too close when the aluminum foil begins to melt, which 
happens at around 1,220°F / 660°C.) The trick with blowtorches is to 
heat up the area in passes, waving the torch back and forth over 
the total surface, so that you don’t linger on one spot 
and overheat it.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 370
How to Cook a High-Heat Pizza
A serious examination of pizza is clearly a must-have 
for a book called Cooking for Geeks . Pizza covers 
so many variables: flavor combinations, Maillard 
reactions, gluten, fermentation, moisture levels, and 
temperature. We’ve covered most of these elsewhere 
in the book, but we haven’t yet talked about 
temperature, which is key to a good crust.
Great thick-crust pizzas have a great interior that 
comes from good dough that’s baked at moderate 
temperatures. My local delicious thick-crust pizza 
place runs its oven at 450°F / 230°C in the winter, 
350°F / 180ºC in the summer. (The oven can’t be 
Yes
Are
you okay
with voiding
your warranty
big time?Does
it have a
cleaning
cycle?
Do you
have a large
cast iron
pan?Do you
own your
oven?Own
a charcoal
grill?
Go to hardware
store.Cast Iron Pan Method
Set oven to highest temperature.
Heat cast iron pan on stovetop,
/f_lip upside down, place pizza
on underside, bake in oven.No
Yes   
NoYes
NoYes
No
Yes
NoGrilled Pizza Method
Set pizza stone
on grill and start /f_ire.
Cleaning Cycle Method
Clip or remove the
lock and bake on
cleaning cycle.run any hotter in summer without the kitchen 
becoming unbearable; they just bake the pizzas 
longer.) Easy enough.
But if you want to make a crispy thin-crust pizza, 
high heat is critical for creating a great crust. The 
lower temperature bound I’ve found acceptable for 
great flat-crust pizza was 600°F / 315°C. At 700°F / 
370°C, the crust becomes noticeably better. The best 
thin-crust pizzas I’ve had were cooked in wood-fired 
brick ovens or on a grill over wood charcoal with 
temperatures running 
between 750°F / 400°C and 
900°F / 480°C. Sadly, most 
ovens max out at 550°F / 
290°C, making great thin-
crust pizza hard to do in the 
oven. What’s a thin-crust-
pizza-loving geek to do? If 
only there were a flow chart 
for this…
Wood grill method
This is by far the easiest method. Grills fueled by 
charcoal or wood get hot, easily up into the 800°F 
/ 425°C temperature range. (Propane grills tend to 
run cooler, even though propane itself technically 
burns hotter.)
Wood charcoal grill 
temperature: 742°F/ 394°C.Cooking with a Lot of Heat 371
Place a pizza stone on top of the grill and light the 
fire. Once the grill is hot, transfer the pizza with 
toppings onto the grill. Depending upon the size of 
your grill, you may be able to cook the pizza directly 
on top of the grill, sans stone—give both a try!
Superhot cast iron pan method
Grill-lusting apartment dwellers have to get creative 
to create high-heat pizza. While most ovens limit the 
temperature to 550°F / 290°C, both the oven’s broiler 
and the stovetop reach higher temperatures.
Preheat the oven to 550°F / 290°C, or as hot as it goes.
Heat up an empty cast iron pan on the stovetop at 
maximum heat for at least 5 minutes. 
Switch the oven to broiler 
mode, transfer the hot 
cast iron pan to the oven, 
flipping it upside down 
and setting under the 
broiler set to high. Par-
bake the pizza dough until 
it just begins to brown, 
about 1–2 minutes.
Transfer the dough to a cutting board and add sauce 
and toppings. Transfer the pizza back to the cast iron 
pan and bake until toppings are melted and browned 
as desired.
Cleaning cycle method (a.k.a. “oven 
overclocking”)
While consumer ovens top out at 550°F / 290°C, that 
doesn’t mean they can’t  get hotter. It’s just dangerous, 
voids your warranty, and, given that the alternative 
ways of getting this kind of heat are far easier, is really 
not worth doing. Still, in the name of science…Ovens get a lot hotter—a lot, lot hotter—when they 
run in the cleaning cycle. The problem is that ovens 
mechanically lock the door, preventing you from 
slipping a pizza in and out, and leaving a pizza in for 
the entire cleaning cycle will result in less-than-tasty 
charcoal.
Cut or remove the lock, however, and ta-da! You’ve 
got access to a superheated oven. After some 
fiddling, I took my oven to over 1,000°F / 540°C. The 
first pizza we tried took a blistering 45 seconds  to 
cook, with the bottom of the crust perfectly crisped 
and the toppings bubbling and melted.
However, the center of the pizza never had a chance 
to heat up, so the 1,000°F / 540°C pizza wasn’t quite 
right. Another attempt 
at around 600°F / 315°C 
was remarkably good but 
didn’t capture the magic 
of the crispy thin crust and 
toasty-brown toppings. 
At around 750–800°F / 
400–425°C, however, we 
started getting pizzas that 
were just right.
Ovens aren’t designed to have their doors opened 
when running in the cleaning cycle. Honestly, I don’t 
recommend this approach. I broke the glass in my 
oven door and had to “upgrade” it, although it is cool 
to have bragging rights to an oven sporting a piece 
of PyroCeram, the same stuff the military used for 
missile nose cones in 
the 1950s. Given that an 
upside-down cast iron 
pan under a broiler or a 
wood-fired grill turns out 
delicious flat-crust pizzas, 
I’d recommend skipping 
the oven overclocking, as 
much fun as it is.
Superheated cast iron 
under a broiler.
To make your base, see the No-Knead Pizza Dough recipe 
and accompanying pizza-making instructions in “Pizza 
Dough—No-Knead Method” on page 271.
Fun with HardwareCooking for Geeks 372Nathan Myhrvold on Modernist CuisinePHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF NATHAN MYHRVOLD
Nathan Myhrvold, formerly CTO of 
Microsoft, is the coauthor of Modernist 
Cuisine  (The Cooking Lab, 2011), which 
covers modern techniques of cooking and 
won the 2012 James Beard awards for 
Cookbook of the Year and Cooking from a 
Professional Point of View.
Tell me about your background 
with food and how you came to be 
so interested in it.
I’ve been interested in food as long as 
I’ve been alive. When I was nine years 
old, I announced to my mother I was 
going to cook Thanksgiving dinner. 
I went to the library, got a bunch of 
cookbooks, and I did. Amazingly, she 
let me do it, and even more amazing, it 
worked out!
In 1995, while I was working at 
Microsoft as a senior vice president, I 
decided that I wanted to go to cooking 
school. I took a leave of absence and 
went to a school in France, l’Ecole de 
Cuisine La Varenne . I went through 
an intensive professional program. 
After retiring from Microsoft, I started my own little company, but I’d been 
interested in food and so decided to 
write a book.
There were lots of big, thick books 
on cooking, teaching you how to do 
classical cooking, but there was no 
modern technique within those books; 
they were all about the techniques of 
the past. I got the notion that there 
really was an opportunity to write 
a book about modernist cuisine—
something that would be encyclopedic 
for the techniques of modern cuisine.
If I didn’t do it, it’s not clear that anyone 
else would, at least not for a very long 
time. I decided that this was my way 
to make a contribution to the food 
world. I could create a book many years 
sooner than anybody else because of 
the time, energy, and money involved. 
It could do something unique in 
terms of bridging the gap between 
the understanding of science and the 
practice of cooking in an accessible 
way.
What’s your definition of modern 
cooking? The term that would come 
to many people would be molecular 
gastronomy.
I deliberately don’t use that name. 
The term that I’m using is modernist 
cooking . I call it modernist because 
it’s analogous to what modernist 
architecture and modern art did in that 
it is a somewhat self-conscious attempt 
to break with the past. It has all of the 
intellectual hallmarks of modernism.
That happened a hundred or fifty years 
ago in art and architecture, but not 
in cooking. There are chefs who take 
offense to it if you call it molecular gastronomy . It’s not a terrible name 
per se, but it means so many different 
things to different people. Modernist  is a 
more inclusive term.
Can you give me an example of 
something that’s surprised you in 
studying these techniques?
There’s a cooking technique called 
confit  that means “preserved” in 
French. You cook the meat in oil or 
fat at a relatively low temperature 
for a long period of time, like 8 or 12 
hours. Any chef would tell you that 
confit is a cooking technique that 
involves cooking in fat, which has a 
characteristic effect on the meat.
One day we were discussing this, and I 
said, “How can this possibly work? How 
can cooking meat in oil actually change 
the meat? That makes no sense to me 
at all. The molecules are actually too 
big to penetrate into the meat. It’s got 
to be on the outside and so on and so 
forth.”
So we did a bunch of experiments, and 
it doesn’t really have the effect that you 
would think. If you steam meat without 
any oil and you put oil in at the end, 
you can’t actually tell the difference.
Presumably you can’t do it just in a 
water bath with no fat.
We did that, too. You can’t tell the 
difference! You can tell the difference if 
you cook it at a different temperature 
or for a different period of time. 
But if you’re cooking at the same 
temperature and time, whether it’s sous 
vide or steamed or cooked confit, you 
really can’t tell the difference afterward. 
That was a big shock to us.Cooking with a Lot of Heat 373How do you think what you’ve 
learned will change the approaches 
of chefs and amateur cooking 
enthusiasts?
What we’re hoping to do is enable 
chefs to use a broad range of 
techniques to make the kinds of food 
they want to make. Right now there is 
a set of chefs who are using these very 
modern techniques. There are a lot of 
others who don’t.
It’s very hard to learn all of this stuff. 
We’re hoping that we can give chefs 
and amateurs an accessible way to 
understand how it works. If we can 
do that, I think that we can really 
make a difference in how folks cook. 
That’s not world peace; it’s not solving 
global warming or something like that, 
but it is something that, within the 
cooking world, I think people are going 
to find tremendously exciting and 
empowering.
Any parting words of wisdom that 
you would give somebody learning 
to cook?
Learning to cook is a wonderful thing 
to do and I highly recommend it to 
folks. The message in a lot of recipes 
is, “Don’t worry about how it works, 
just do this, this, and this, and the right 
thing will happen.”
When it works, that’s okay. When it 
doesn’t work, you don’t really know 
why. I always feel cheated when that’s 
the case. I want to find out why. I’m still 
learning how to cook. I think even the 
best chefs in the world are still learning 
how to cook, and it’s that learning 
and that exploration that makes it 
interesting.the humidity is very high, you actually 
get radically different results. It can 
make a 10 degree [6°C] difference 
in the temperature that the food is 
experiencing, particularly at the onset.
We went through a whole bunch of 
examples like this. It turns out that 
humidity is a huge factor in how 
cooking actually happens. A convection 
steam oven controls the humidity, and 
that’s its huge advantage. One of the 
advantages of sous vide is you seal the 
food up in a plastic bag where there is 
no variation in humidity. But if you’re 
cooking out in the open air, humidity 
actually makes a big difference. That’s 
one of the reasons that people don’t 
have their recipes turn out quite like 
they thought.
Is that something that’s important to 
absolutely every cook in America? I 
can’t tell you that it is. I think it’s kind 
of cool; it certainly will matter to 
professional chefs. Every chef has had 
the situation where they try the recipe 
in the book and it doesn’t work, or the 
chef travels and the food doesn’t quite 
turn out right. This is one of the reasons. 
If you’re not controlling humidity, it’s 
a free variable, and it will make a big 
difference.
People don’t generally understand how 
much energy it takes to boil water. This 
dramatically affects cooking. If you just 
look at the latent heat of vaporization 
of water, it takes 4 joules of energy to 
move a gram of water 1 degree Celsius, 
400 joules to take it from just above 
freezing up to the edge of boiling, and 
2,257 joules to boil it. That’s why steam 
engines work. All kinds of things are 
driven off this one fact.There’s a bunch of other things 
that have been quite surprising in 
determining how techniques work. 
People will frequently drop meat into 
ice water to stop the cooking. It’s called 
shocking .
Suppose you’re cooking a big roast or 
something that’s got some thickness to 
it. A lot of books will say take it out and 
then plunge it in ice water to really stop 
the cooking. It doesn’t work at all! The 
temperature at the core of the meat 
will not be affected by you dumping 
it in ice. You will cool the whole thing 
by dumping it in ice water, but it’s not 
actually going to affect the maximum 
temperature the core reaches.
Heat and cold “travel” at the same 
speed. It’s not exactly correct, but if you 
think about a wave of heat going from 
the outside in, shocking it is going to 
put a wave of cold, a “negative” wave 
of heat. But it doesn’t go faster, and the 
hot wave that started before will hit the 
center before the cold wave does.
Wow, that makes a lot of sense. Are 
there other examples of processes 
that you’ve discovered that apply 
to the way that most people cook 
on a day-to-day basis?
One of the things that we’ve spent 
a bunch of time on in the book is 
explaining the role of humidity in 
cooking. Most food is wet. When you 
heat wet things, they give off water 
and that takes a tremendous amount 
of energy to do. The rate at which the 
water evaporates depends on what the 
humidity is.
If you cook something in Aspen in the 
winter when the humidity outside is 
really low, and you cook that same 
thing in Miami in the summer when 
Fun with HardwareChapter Contents
Food Additives  .............................................. 376
E Numbers: The Dewey Decimal System of 
Food Additives  ....................... 378
Mixtures and Colloids  .................................... 379
Preservatives  ................................................ 382
Flavorings  ..................................................... 397
Liquid Smoke, a.k.a. Water-Distilled 
Smoke Vapor  ......................... 403
Thickeners  .................................................... 408
Arrowroot and Cornstarch  ................ 409
Methylcellulose  ......................... 414Maltodextrin  ........................... 416
Gelling Agents  ............................................. 418
Pectin   ................................ 419
Carrageenan  ........................... 421
Agar  ................................... 423
Sodium Alginate  ........................ 426
Emulsifiers  .................................................... 429
Lecithin  ............................... 430
Enzymes  ...................................................... 432
Transglutaminase  ....................... 436
Interviews
Carolyn Jung’s Preserved Lemons, 387
Hervé This on Molecular Gastronomy, 390
Ann Barrett on Texture , 412
Benjamin Wolfe on Molds and Cheese, 434
Harold McGee on Solving Food 
Mysteries,  438
Labs
Making Ice Cream with Salt and Ice, 394
How to Make Liquid Smoke, 406
Make Your Own Pectin, 420Recipes
Marshmallows,  381
Salmon Gravlax,  385
Preserved Lemons,  387
Bread-and-Butter 
Quick Pickles,  388
Citrus Marmalade, 396
Candied Orange 
Rind,  396
Vanilla Extract, 400
Infused Oils and 
Herbed Butters,  401
S’mores Ice Cream, 405
Oven-Cooked 
Barbecue Ribs, 405Hot Marshmallows, 415
Powdered Brown 
Butter,  417
Gelled Milk with 
Iota and Kappa 
Carrageenan, 422
Chocolate Panna 
Cotta, 424
Clarified Lime 
Juice,  425
Mayonnaise,  431
Fruit Juice Foam, 431
Scallops 
Enzymatically 
Wrapped in 
Bacon, 4376
HUMANS HAVE BEEN ADDING CHEMICALS TO FOOD FOR MILLENNIA. Salt 
preserves meats and fish, vinegar turns vegetables into pickles, and egg yolks form 
emulsions to create sauces like mayonnaise and hollandaise. The last few centuries have 
brought modern compounds, from alginates to vanillin, that are useful for both commercial 
and creative applications.
Food itself is made up of chemicals. Corn, chicken, and ice cream cones are just big piles 
of well-structured chemicals. A cook learns how to manipulate these piles of chemicals 
using all the techniques we’ve covered so far. But a talented cook has to also know how 
to manipulate the chemistry of food. Looking at food chemistry—the chemical makeup 
of ingredients and the changes that occur when they’re combined or processed—is a fun 
way to explore many cooking techniques. Every type of cook, from the most traditional 
home cook to the savviest industrial research chef, benefits from an understanding of the 
chemistry of ingredients.
How are foods structured? What’s happening to them when they’re 
combined or heated? How can you use a knowledge of chemistry to cook 
better food? And what creative new ideas can you come up with by 
understanding chemistry? Let’s look at some historical and modern 
techniques for chemically manipulating food.Playing with Chemicals
   375Cooking for Geeks 376
Food Additives
Have you ever wondered how pickles, mayonnaise, or gummy candies are made? They’re not 
simple foods, at least in the sense of Mother Nature. The next time you’re standing in your 
kitchen, look at the various jars and packages of foods that you have. What gives those foods 
their textures and flavors? Invariably, the answer will involve ingredient chemistry. Vinegar 
pickles rely on acetic acid, mayonnaise wouldn’t exist without lecithin from egg yolks, and 
gummy candies use gelling agents like gelatin. How do these compounds work? And how can 
you change textures and flavors using similar compounds? This is where food additives come in.
To start, we should define what food additives are. The US FDA defines them as nonessential 
items that end up in food or somehow change it. (The full definition they give is a mouthful: 
they exclude items in use before 1958 or that industry determines are “generally recognized 
as safe. ”) I’m going to use a more colloquial definition of food additive: any chemical with 
a definable molecular structure that’s used in food. Salt and sugar, by this loose definition, 
count. They’re chemical compounds—sodium chloride and sucrose, respectively—that 
can be used to change functional properties in foods. My definition also includes modern 
compounds like methylcellulose and transglutaminase, which we’ll cover later in the 
chapter. Food chemistry is much, much broader than food additives, of course. Still, looking 
at the different uses for food additives is a useful lens for understanding food chemistry. 
Before looking at how food additives are used, I want to touch on politics. The use of 
chemicals in food is often misunderstood. I’m surprised how often the issue of safety is 
conflated with issues of how our food is produced. Our global food supply is driven by 
economics, ethics, and politics. These are not science topics, and I want to separate the 
issues out before diving into the science. (If the other topics interest you, see Marion 
Nestle’s excellent books What to Eat [North Point Press] and Food Politics [University of 
California Press].)
A brief digression on “generally recognized as safe, ” normally abbreviated to “GRAS”: the US 
Food Additives Amendment of 1958 defines GRAS additives as compounds considered safe 
for the intended use based on review by a panel of qualified experts. The panel reviewing 
the additive is selected by industry, not government, and doesn’t have to disclose their 
research. In my opinion, the food industry will do better in the long run by communicating 
more openly about how our food is made and by disclosing everything. The distrust of 
industry has prompted a consumer aversion to chemicals and a preference for natural 
ingredients, but that has unintended consequences. “Natural” has no technical definition 
and isn’t the same thing as healthier! (The number of American consumers who push back 
on unfamiliar chemical ingredients while happily eating high-sugar, high-sodium foods 
shows the disconnect.) Anyway, enough with the tangent—let’s have some fun looking at 
the science of food chemistry!Food Additives 377One way to understand food additives is to look at the reasons they’re used commercially: 
to extend shelf life, to preserve nutritional value, to address dietary needs, and to aid in 
manufacturing at scale. Consider the current ingredient list for an Oreo cookie, a delicious 
marvel of the modern food world. Skipping sugar, cocoa, and salt, which are there for taste, 
everything else matches at least one of the four reasons:
Baking soda (a.k.a. sodium bicarbonate) and/or calcium phosphate
Aids in manufacturing by speeding up the baking process. Baking soda may seem 
traditional, but we’ve only used it in cooking since the late 1840s. (Any time you see 
“and/or” in an ingredient list, this is a tip-off that the manufacturer is choosing between 
the ingredients based on season, price fluctuations, or baking facility.)
Cornstarch (sometimes called “cornflour”)
Extends shelf life by stabilizing the food and acting as a humectant (something that 
retains moisture).
Enriched flour (wheat flour, niacin [B3], reduced iron, thiamin mononitrate [B1], riboflavin 
[B2], folic acid [B9])
Addresses dietary needs by adding in micronutrients that are removed during 
processing. Fortification is mandatory in over 50 countries; the US FDA requires that 
white flour be supplemented with B vitamins (to prevent various deficiencies) and iron 
(to prevent anemia, a low red blood cell count).
High oleic canola and/or palm and/or canola oil
Extends shelf life by providing fats that won’t go rancid as 
quickly as fats from butter and egg yolks. (“High oleic” refers 
to fatty acids; for more, see page 152).
Soy lecithin
Aids in manufacturing. A traditional recipe relies on egg yolks 
for lecithin, which acts as an emulsifier (see page 429), but 
because Oreos skip the eggs, lecithin needs to be added.
Vanillin (artificial flavor)
Aids in manufacturing at scale—the worldwide demand for vanilla flavoring far, far exceeds 
the available supply. (We’ll cover vanilla extract later in this chapter; see page 400.)
As you can see, some of the ingredients are compounds that home bakers wouldn’t 
normally add to their grocery lists: Soy lecithin? Vanillin? High oleic oil? But you’re probably 
already using some of these compounds, just not by these names. A quick look at a 
categorization system for food additives will help before we dive into their chemistry.The Oreo has been around for over a 
century, but the recipe has shifted as 
newer additives replace older ones, 
most recently in 2006 when Nabisco 
switched from trans-based fatty acids 
to high oleic ones. Try making your own 
version: make butter cookies with cocoa 
powder (see page 224) and add a filling 
of 1 cup (120g) powdered sugar, 2–3 
tablespoons (30–45g) butter, and ¼ 
teaspoon (1g) vanilla extract .
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 378E Numbers: The Dewey Decimal 
System of Food Additives
It’s easy enough to find a recipe for cream-filled chocolate cookies, but how do you go 
about tweaking a recipe to solve certain challenges or create new foods? Heck, figuring 
out which food additives even exist can be a challenge. Looking at the back of a package of 
Oreos doesn’t begin to explain the range of possibilities.
The most commonly used index is compiled by the Codex Alimentarius Commission , a 
commission established by the United Nations and the World Health Organization that 
has created a taxonomy of food additives called E numbers . Like the Dewey Decimal 
classification system for books, E numbers define a hierarchical tree. A unique E number 
(totally unrelated to the number e, ~2.7182) is assigned for each chemical compound that’s 
approved for food usage in the European Union. E numbers are grouped by functional 
categories, with the numbering of chemicals determined by each chemical’s primary usage:
 E100–E199:  Coloring agents
 E200–E299:  Preservatives
 E300–E399:  Antioxidants, acidity regulators
 E400–E499:  Emulsifiers, stabilizers, and thickeners 
 E500–E599:  Acidity regulators, anticaking agents
 E600–E699:  Flavor enhancers
 E700–E799:  Antibiotics
 E900–E999:  Sweeteners
 E1000–E1999:  Additional  chemicals
Many historical additives make an appearance in the list. Good ol’ vitamin C shows up 
(E300: ascorbic acid), as do vinegar’s acetic acid (E260) and cream of tartar (E334). Some 
synthetic compounds are listed too, such as propylene glycol (E1520); it’s the liquid in the 
nonalcoholic vanilla extract sold at your grocery store.
Your local grocery store will stock many of the additives covered in this chapter—
pectin, gelatin, agar—but not everything. You can order others online. See http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/additives/ for a list of online suppliers.
Some compounds function in more than one way. Ascorbic acid, listed at E300, is also a 
preservative (200s) and a color fixer (100s). Lecithin (E322) is almost always culinarily used as an 
emulsifier (400s), but it’s also an antioxidant. Don’t think of additives as directly mapping to their 
categories; rather, the categories are a good framework to see the technical purposes for which 
the food additives are used.Mixtures and Colloids 379Which additive to use for a particular purpose depends on the properties of the food and 
your specific goals. You can see some overlap between these categories and the types of 
colloids mentioned earlier. Some additives work in a broad pH range but are limited to 
certain temperatures, while others might handle narrower pH ranges but be fine with more 
heat. For example, agar is a strong gelling agent that can create gels for sweets, but with 
some ingredients it also exhibits syneresis —liquid weeping out of a gel. Carrageenan does 
not undergo syneresis but cannot handle an environment as acidic as agar can.
This chapter is loosely structured on these groupings, covering food additives that are 
common for the home cook, along with a few more playful items. There are a lot more out 
there, though, if you want to explore! For a full list of E-numbered additives, see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/enumbers/ .
Mixtures and Colloids
There’s one more concept we need to look at before investigating how chemicals interact 
with food. One of the biggest aha!  moments for me in learning to cook was realizing that 
ingredients are not uniform, consistent things. I’m still learning examples of this—a slice 
of cucumber from the part nearest the blossom can contain a particular enzyme that turns 
pickles soft?!—but most ingredients don’t require knowing such trivia. The concept of 
mixtures and colloids explains why many foods react in more complicated ways than the 
simple rules of time and temperature would predict.
Very few foods are simple substances, chemically speaking. Water doesn’t even seem so 
simple to me anymore (even without trace minerals, H2O is complicated—see page 243). 
Vanilla extract and infused oils carry flavors in ethanol and fats. Jams balance sugars with 
acids to form gels. Mayonnaise is an emulsion of fats and water that aren’t truly mixed. 
Chocolate chip cookies are really complicated: pockets of syrupy, sugary liquid surrounded by 
a breadlike matrix that also has chocolate chips—cocoa solids blended into both liquid and 
solid cocoa fats. Ice cream gets exceedingly complicated.
To a food scientist, these are examples of mixtures and colloids. A mixture  is two or more 
substances combined together, where the substances remain in their original chemical form. 
Sugar syrup is a mixture—the sucrose is dissolved in the water, but retains its sweet-tasting 
chemical structure. The combination of flour and baking soda is also a mixture. A colloid  is 
a type of mixture; specifically, a combination of two substances—gas, liquid, or solid—
where one substance is uniformly dispersed in the other, but the two aren’t dissolved 
together. In other words, the two compounds don’t associate with each other, even 
if the overall structure appears uniform to the naked eye. Sugar syrup is not a 
colloid (it’s a different type of mixture—a solution), but milk is, having 
solid fat particles that are dispersed throughout a water-based solution 
but that aren’t actually dissolved into the liquid.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 380Take a look at the table of colloid types. It shows the different combinations of particles and 
media, along with examples of foods for each colloid type. The medium of a colloid is called the 
continuous phase  (e.g., the watery liquid in milk) and the particles are known as the dispersed 
phase  (for milk, the fat droplets). Foods can be more complicated than this, though. Ice cream 
is a complex colloid —multiple types of colloids at once—being a water-based liquid containing 
pockets of air (foam), chunks of ice crystals ( suspensions), and fats (emulsion) all at the same 
time. One surprise in this table is the relatively broad swath of techniques needed to create all 
these foods. Willy Wonka’s Invention Room would surely have a chart of it on one wall!
These techniques capture much more than traditional culinary techniques. The table is 
fertile ground for candy makers and experimental chefs alike, and it reveals the basis of 
many molecular gastronomy–inspired concepts. Whisking up fruit juice with the emulsifier 
lecithin creates foams that can be used to create a fun topping for an entrée or dessert. 
Flavorful liquids can be converted into forms that you can nibble, like gummy candies 
(often shaped like teddy bears or worms). An imaginative use of solid aerosols like smoke 
can convey intense aromas. Fear not: even if pushing the bounds of culinary possibilities 
isn’t your thing, most of the items in the table are still of great interest. 
DISPERSED PHASE
Gas particles Liquid particles Solid particlesCONTINUOUS PHASEGas 
(gases have no 
defined volume; they 
expand to fill space)(N/A: gas molecules don’t 
have a collective structure, so 
gas/gas combinations either 
mix to create a solution or 
separate out due to gravity)Liquid aerosols
• Mist spraysSolid aerosols
• Smoke (e.g., when 
smoking foods)
• Aerosolized 
chocolate
Liquid  
(liquids have defined 
volume but no 
defined shape)Foams
• Whipped cream
• Whisked egg whites
• Flavored foams
• Ice cream (air bubbles)Emulsions
• Milk
• Mayonnaise
• Ice cream (fat in 
water emulsion)Sols and suspensions
• Commercial salad 
dressings
• Ice cream (ice 
crystals and solid 
fats)
Solid  
(solids have defined 
volume and defined 
shape)Solid foams
• Bread
• Marshmallows
• SoufflésGels
• Butter
• Cheese
• Jelly/gummy 
candies
• Jell-OSolid sols
• ChocolateMixtures and Colloids 381
Marshmallows
Ever wonder how marshmallows got their name? They were originally made from the root of the 
marsh mallow plant, whose sap was whisked with sugar to create a foam. Modern marshmallows 
use gelatin, which is far easier to procure than fresh mallow root. I like to use egg whites, too—
far closer to the Italian meringue we covered earlier (see page 293)—but if undercooked egg 
whites aren’t your thing, leave them out.
Marshmallows are a classic example of foam colloids. They start as liquid foams: when 
fresh, the mixture will flow and change shape. After 12–24 hours, they set into a solid 
foam that has a memory of its shape. They’re elastic: you can press them, but when you 
let go, they rebound to their original shape.
In a small bowl, mix 3 tablespoons (21g) unflavored gelatin powder (3 envelopes)  into 
¾ cup (180 mL) cold to room-temperature water . Set it aside for 5 minutes to hydrate 
the gelatin.
In a pan over medium-high heat, create a sugar syrup by heating 1 cup (200g) sugar, 
½ cup (120 mL) corn syrup , and ¼ cup (60 mL) water . Heat the sugar syrup to 
240°F / 115°C and then reduce the heat to low. Whisk in the gelatin and water from 
the small bowl until it’s completely dissolved in and simmer for a minute or two.
In a large mixing bowl, whisk 4 large (120g) egg whites  to soft peak stage, either by 
hand or with a stand mixer. Slowly drizzle in the hot sugar syrup, whisking the egg 
whites the entire time. Add 1 teaspoon (5 mL) vanilla extract  or other flavoring, and 
if you like, any food coloring. Continue beating the mixture for a few more minutes to 
ensure the sugar and gelatin are thoroughly mixed in.
Dust a generous layer of powdered sugar  onto the bottom of a baking pan (use a 9” 
/ 20 cm square pan for thicker marshmallows, a larger rectangular one for thinner 
marshmallows, or a rimmed cookie sheet for mini-marshmallows). Pour the mixture 
into the pan and then dust more powdered sugar on top. Let the mixture set at 
room temperature for 8–12 hours. Turn the marshmallow sheet out of the pan onto a 
cutting board dusted with powdered sugar and cut it into cubes. Coat the sides of the 
marshmallows with powdered sugar from the cutting board.
Notes
• Try adding vanilla bean scrapings or other flavorings like powdered espresso, peppermint oil, 
or a shot of liqueur. For color on the outside, try using dyed sugar (see note on page 225); 
Peeps are coated in yellow granulated sugar, for example.
• If your marshmallows are coming out too sticky or too firm after a full day, try increasing 
or decreasing the amount of gelatin you’re using. Gelatin comes in different strengths—
measured in Blooms, based on a scale created by  Oscar Bloom—so there are differences 
between brands and grades.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 382Preservatives
Ahh, salt: responsible for the salvation of many a food (or is that salivation?). The oldest 
chemical in use, salt was used in prehistoric times and there are records of its use for dry-
curing hams in the third century BC by the Roman Cato the Elder. The use 
of sugar as a preservative wasn’t far behind; the Romans used honey to 
preserve foods as well. And another historical preservative is vinegar, used 
as an acidity regulator (sounds delicious when I put it that way, no?). 
Chemical preservation has the fundamental purpose of preventing 
microbial growth. While there are plenty of other ways to preserve food, 
like smoking or drying, using chemicals doesn’t necessarily change flavors 
as much. Sausages, vinegar pickles, and fruit preserves all rely on chemicals 
to keep them safe for eating. Chemicals prevent microbial growth by 
either disrupting cells’ abilities to function, as nitrite does to sausage, or by 
changing any of the FAT TOM variables (see page 175) to be inhospitable, 
such as increasing acidity with vinegar or reducing moisture with sugar in 
fruit preserves.
Salt’s ability to kill pathogens and preserve things isn’t limited to foods. For 
an adult human, the lethal dose of table salt is about 80 grams—about 
the amount in the saltshaker on your typical restaurant table. Overdosing 
on salt is reportedly a really painful way to go, as your brain swells up and 
ruptures. Plus, it’s unlikely the emergency room physicians will correctly 
diagnose the cause before it’s too late.
While the chemistry of preservatives may not seem important to everyday cooking, it’s 
revealing to understand how these ingredients work, and the basics of preservation apply 
to how most other food additives work. First, a quick refresher on a few definitions that’ll 
pop up throughout this chapter:
Atom
Basic building block of matter. By definition, atoms have the same number of electrons 
and protons. Some atoms are stable in this arrangement (e.g., helium), making them 
less likely to form bonds with other compounds (which is why you don’t see any 
compounds made of helium). Other atoms (e.g., sodium) are extremely unstable and 
readily react. A sodium atom (Na) will react violently with water (don’t try licking a 
sample of pure sodium—it’d ignite due to the water on your tongue), but when an 
electron is removed it turns into a delicious salty sodium ion (Na+).
IMAGE COURTESY OF NASA
 IMAGE COURTESY OF JUSTIN MEYERS
Different types of salt will form crystals 
in different shapes, based on the 
salt’s atomic crystalline structure. 
Sodium chloride’s crystalline structure 
is cubic, while potassium nitrate’s 
crystalline structure has a steep slant 
to it, creating needlelike crystals.Preservatives 383Molecule
Two or more  atoms bonded together. H = hydrogen atom; H2 = two hydrogen atoms, 
making it a molecule. When it’s two or more different atoms, it becomes a compound  
(e.g., H2O). Sucrose (a.k.a. sugar) is a compound with the composition C12H22O11—12 
carbon, 22 hydrogen, and 11 oxygen atoms per molecule. Note that the composition 
doesn’t tell you what the arrangement of the atoms is, but that arrangement is part of 
what defines a molecule.
Ion
Any atom or molecule that’s charged —that is, where the numbers of electrons and 
protons aren’t equal. Because of the imbalance, ions can bond with other ions by 
transferring electrons to (or from) each other.
Cation
An atom or molecule that’s positively charged. Pronounced “ cat-ion”— meow! —a cation 
is any atom or molecule that has more protons than electrons; it’s paw -sitively charged. 
For example, Na+ is a cation—an atom of sodium that has lost an electron, giving it 
more protons than electrons and thus a net positive charge. Ca2+ is a cation—a cation 
of calcium—that has lost two electrons.
Anion
An atom or molecule that’s negatively charged (i.e., one that has more electrons than 
protons). Cl– is an atomic anion—in this case an atom of chlorine that has gained an 
extra electron, giving it a net negative charge.
From these definitions, you’ll hopefully deduce that a lot of chemistry is about ions 
interacting with each other based on differences in electrical charges. Sodium chloride, 
common table salt, is a classic example: it’s an ionic compound composed of a cation and 
an anion. In solid form, though—the stuff in your salt shaker—salt is more complicated 
than one anion plus one cation. It takes the solid form of a crystal of atoms arranged in an 
alternating pattern (like a 3D checkerboard) based on charge: cation, anion, cation, anion. In 
water, the salt crystals dissolve and the individual ions are freed ( disassociated ). The anions 
and the cations separate out into individual ions, which can then react and form bonds with 
other atoms and molecules. That’s why salt is so amazing! Sucrose doesn’t do this.
Sodium chloride is one particular type of salt, made up of sodium (a metal, and one that 
in its pure form happens to react violently when dropped in water) and chloride (chlorine 
with an extra electron, making it an anion). There are many other types of salts, created with 
different metals and anions, and they don’t always taste salty. Monosodium glutamate, for 
example, is a salt that tastes savory and boosts the sensation of other flavors. Epsom salt—
magnesium sulfate—tastes bitter.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 384Multiple types of salts are used to preserve foods. Salmon gravlax is cured with a large 
amount of sodium chloride, which preserves the fish by increasing osmotic pressure, 
dehydrating and starving living microbial cells of critical water as well as creating an 
electrolytic imbalance that poisons them. Many sausages, hams, prosciutto, and corned 
beef are cured using small quantities of sodium nitrite, which also gives these foods a 
distinctive flavor and pinkish color. Unlike gravlax, in which the sodium does the preserving, 
sodium nitrite works because of nitrite; the sodium is merely an escort for the nitrite 
molecule. Nitrites inhibit bacterial growth by preventing cells from being able to transport 
an amino acid, meaning they can’t reproduce. (Incidentally, nitrites are also toxic to us at 
high levels, for presumably the same reason; but without the nitrites, microbial growth 
would be toxic to us too—dosage matters!)
Sugar can also be used as a preservative. It works like sodium chloride, by changing the 
osmotic pressure of the environment (see page 386 for more on osmosis in food). With 
less available water, sugary foods such as candies and jams don’t require refrigeration to 
prevent bacterial spoilage. Think back to the M in the FAT TOM rule: bacteria need moisture 
for growth, and adding sugar reduces their ability to drink.
Sugar’s osmotic properties can be used for more than just preserving food. 
Researchers in the UK have found that sugar can be used as a dressing for wounds, essentially as a cheap bactericidal. The researchers used sugar (sterilized, please), polyethylene glycol, and hydrogen peroxide (0.15% final concentration) to make a paste with high osmotic pressure and low water activity, creating something that dries out the wound while preventing bacteria from being able to grow. Whoever thought of rubbing salt in a wound should’ve tried sugar!
Besides salts and sugar starving microbes of vital water, enzymatic inhibitors and acids 
are used to prevent their growth. Benzoate is one of the most commonly used modern 
preservatives, often used in breads to prevent mold growth. (Fans of The Simpsons  may 
recall potassium benzoate as part of the curse of frogurt—see http://cookingforgeeks.com/
book/frogurt/ .) Like nitrite, benzoate interferes with a cell’s ability to function (in the case 
of bread, by decreasing fungi’s ability to convert glucose to adenosine triphosphate, thus 
cutting off the energy supply).
Compounds that lower a food’s pH also preserve the food, and are so critical that acidity 
regulators get an entire section in the E numbers list. Many of these compounds don’t have 
uses interesting to the home cook, who already has citric acid (thanks, lemon juice!) and 
acetic acid (from vinegar) on hand. For industry, the other acidity regulators give a wider 
range of flavoring options and functional properties, but for home use, there isn’t much 
repurposing to be explored beyond a few baking tricks like using a pinch of vitamin C 
(ascorbic acid) to give yeast a boost during fermentation. Preservatives 385
Salmon Gravlax
Salt curing has been used for centuries to preserve 
fish caught at sea. It’s also easy to do at home! 
Surrounding fish with a sufficient quantity of salt 
draws out the moisture; this is called dry brining . 
But salt doesn’t just dry out the food (along 
with any bacteria and parasites). At sufficient 
concentration, dry brining actively disrupts a cell’s 
ability to function and kills it, rendering bacteria 
and parasites nonviable.
In a bowl, mix together:
 5 teaspoons (30g) kosher salt
 1 tablespoon (12g) sugar
 3 tablespoons (12g) finely chopped fresh dill
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) vodka
 1 teaspoon (2g) crushed peppercorns 
(ideally, use a mortar and pestle)
On a large piece of plastic wrap, place:
 1 pound (450g) salmon, washed and bones 
removed; preferably a center cut so that its 
shape is rectangular
Sprinkle the salt mixture over the fish and 
massage it in. Wrap the fish in plastic and store 
it in the fridge, flipping and massaging it twice a 
day for a day or two.
Store it in the fridge and consume within a week.
Remove the skin by placing the 
fish skin-side-down on a cutting 
board and carefully running 
a knife along the surface 
between the skin and flesh 
while using your hand to keep 
the fish from sliding around.
Notes
• Vodka is used here as a solvent to dissolve 
some of the non-water-soluble aromatic 
compounds. You can substitute other spirits, 
such as cognac or whiskey, to bring additional 
flavors in. And in place of dill, try using 
coriander seed, loose tea leaves (e.g., Earl Grey 
or Lapsang Souchong), shallots, or lemon zest. 
The Scandinavians traditionally serve salmon 
gravlax on top of bread with a mustard dill 
sauce.
• You can substitute other fatty fish, such as 
tuna, for the salmon and obtain a similar 
texture. 
• This recipe is a bit heavy on the salt—6% 
by weight—to err on the side of safety. You 
can reduce the saltiness before eating the 
fish by rinsing the finished product in fresh 
water. Curing above 3.5% salt prevents most 
common bacterial growth, but not all. Modest 
concentrations of salt prevent Gram-negative 
bacteria—which are the most common ones 
found in food—from growing, but won’t 
handle the few that are Gram-positive, such as 
Listeria .
• Salt curing— as is done in salmon gravlax—
is the first step in making lox. After curing, 
lox is also cold-smoked, which is the process 
of exposing a food to smoke vapors that 
have been cooled down. You can 
approximate the flavor of lox by 
adding liquid smoke to the rub—
see page 403 for more.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 386Osmosis in Food
Contrary to culinary wisdom, brining something does not draw water into the cells to 
make it juicier—that would be going against osmosis! Brining draws water out from 
cells and appears to increase the liquid in the tissues around the cells. But what is 
osmosis?
Osmosis is the physical process of a solvent passing through a membrane to equalize 
the concentration of solute on the membrane’s other side. For example, applying salt to 
the outside of meat or cooking fruit in sugar syrup causes water to pass from inside the 
cells through the cell walls and out into the salt or syrup solution to dilute the salt or 
sugar on the outside. This happens because salt and sugar are unable to penetrate the 
cell walls, but water can, so water leaves the cells in order to equalize the differences in 
concentration. (Salt also happens to break down some of the myofibril proteins and thus 
change the meat’s texture—but that’s not due to osmosis!)
Osmosis is all about diffusion . Molecules dissolved in liquid will distribute themselves 
out to roughly uniform concentrations, somewhat like steam in a hot shower will 
distribute itself through a room. (Can you imagine taking a hot shower and having all 
the steam stay in just the left half of the shower stall?!) The higher concentration on 
one side of a membrane like a cell wall causes the solute (the salt or sugar) to bounce 
up against the membrane, creating what’s called osmotic pressure . If that membrane is 
permeable to the solute, some of it will pass through to the other side until the pressure 
of molecules bouncing up against the membrane from both sides is roughly equal.
In cells, osmosis leads to dehydration, 
and if there’s a large enough difference 
of concentration between the two sides 
of the cell wall, plasmolysis  occurs—the 
cell structure collapses. If too much water 
leaves, the cell dies. From a food safety 
perspective, the amount of salt necessary 
to cause sufficient plasmolysis to render 
bacteria nonviable depends on the species 
of bacteria involved and the type of food 
at hand. Salmonella , for example, is unable 
to grow in salt concentrations as low as 3%, while Clostridium botulinum  dies at around 
5.5%. Staphylococcus  is hardy enough to survive in a salt concentration up to 20%. 
However, according to the US  FDA, it is not a common concern in fish, so food safety 
guidelines consider salt solutions of ~6% generally safe for  curing fish.SoluteWater Partially
Permeable
MembranePreservatives 387Carolyn Jung’s Preserved Lemons
PHOTO BY JOANNE HOYOUNG-LEECarolyn Jung is a food journalist who 
worked for the  San Jose Mercury 
News  as a reporter, food writer, and 
editor before creating her own blog 
at http://www.foodgal.com .
What’s a day in the life of a food writer like?
It’s one of the most creative and enjoyable professions there is. Food is 
this innocuous way to get strangers talking, and it’s a very innocuous 
way to educate people—and not just about food. It teaches people 
about culture, about history, about different ethnicities, about different 
places in the world, about politics, about religion. All of those aspects 
make it interesting, much more so than people think at the outset.
Where does this recent fascination that people have for 
cooking come from?
A large impetus has been the Food Network, which has made food 
such a phenomenon. A lot of people who wouldn’t normally cook 
were attracted to shows like Iron Chef  because it was almost like 
watching a boxing match or a football game. Who doesn’t dream 
about being the quarterback on their favorite team? Cooking shows 
have been the same; you imagine yourself in that contestant’s 
position. “Oh, my God, if I got a box with mushrooms and lemongrass 
and chicken and avocado, what the heck would I make?”
What’s been the most unexpected difference between your 
experience in the print world and your blog?
As a newspaper reporter, I was used to writing very long, involved 
pieces. On the Web, people don’t have that kind of attention span. You 
have a shorter window of time to attract a reader online, but you’re also 
able to build a very loyal audience. If someone likes what you’re doing, 
they will stay with you.
Are there any particular blog posts that have had much 
stronger reactions than you expected?
I wrote about how to make preserved lemons, and how I got, as my 
husband calls it, almost obsessed with watching my lemons. It’s the 
simplest thing ever. The first time I made this, I would wake up every day 
and look at my jar of lemons to see what they looked like. It was like a 
science experiment. The fun part is discovering all the uses there are.Preserved Lemons
All you need are a half-dozen washed 
(preferably organic) lemons , salt, and a 
glass jar with a tight-fitting lid .
Set 1 or 2 lemons aside. Cut the remaining 
lemons into quarters or eighths and 
remove any seeds. Sprinkle a thin layer 
of salt in the bottom of the jar and add a 
layer of lemons, and then cover them with 
salt. Continue layering the remaining 
lemon wedges, covering each layer with 
salt. Once you’re done, squeeze the juice 
from the 1 or 2 reserved lemons on top to 
give the lemons a head start. Store the jar 
in the fridge. After 2–3 weeks, the lemons 
will become soft and tender.
Once they’re ready, pick a lemon wedge 
out of the jar and use it however you’d 
like—chopped or sliced in thin slivers. 
The preserved lemon will be quite salty, 
so hold back any salt that you’d normally 
use in whatever recipe you’re following, 
or give the lemon wedge a quick rinse. 
Preserved lemons are fantastic in tuna 
salad for sandwiches, or try using them 
in pastas, bean salads, vinaigrettes, and 
marinades.
Try adding spices to the salt, or for a less 
salty, sweeter 
version, make 
a mix of 2 
parts sugar 
to 1 part 
salt.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 388
Bread-and-Butter Quick Pickles
Quick pickles are made from cucumbers sliced into thin discs and cured in hot vinegar 
mixed with spices and sugar. It’s the sugar that makes them “bread-and-butter” pickles. 
They’re amazing with their namesake; try them on toasted bread slathered with good 
butter. Like refrigerator pickles, which are fermented for a few days before refrigeration, 
these aren’t properly preserved for long-term storage—not that I ever manage to keep 
them around very long.
In a medium saucepan, measure out:
 2 cups (480 mL) white vinegar (5% acetic acid)
 1½ cup (300g) sugar (or brown sugar)
 3 tablespoons (30g) sea salt 
 1 tablespoon (3g) mustard seeds
 ½ teaspoon (1g) turmeric powder
Wash 1 pound (450g) cucumbers —try to get a pickling variety like Kirby, or use 
slender, more interesting cucumbers than the standard market variety (“Green 
Blimp”). Trim and discard both ends and then cut the cucumbers into discs, about 
1/8–¼” / 0.5–1 cm thick. Add the slices to the saucepan.
Trim and peel 1–2 onions, about ½ pound (~250g) . Slice them in half, root end to 
tip, and then slice them into thin half-rings. Add the onion slices to the saucepan.
Optionally add more pickling spices or items to pickle—for example, peppercorns , 
celery seed , a few bay leaves , hot peppers sliced into rings , or a bunch of garlic 
cloves cut in half .
Bring the ingredients up to a boil and simmer them for 5 
minutes with the lid on. Longer simmering 
times will produce softer pickles. 
Turn the heat off and allow the 
pickles to cool until it’s safe 
to transfer them to a storage 
container. Store them in the 
fridge and use them within a few 
weeks.
Preservatives 389
Notes
• Sea salt doesn’t have any iodine or anticaking additives, which cloud up water. It’s 
also half as dense as table salt, so if you substitute table salt for sea salt, adjust 
the volume measurements accordingly. Try mixing 2 tablespoons (20g) of sea salt 
into one glass of water and 1 tablespoon (18g) of table salt into a second glass to 
see the difference in how clear they are.
• When I first thought of using pickles as an example of preservation, I thought it’d 
be easy to explain. Heat, salinity, and acidity all kill pathogens! Turns out, that’s 
not enough. These quick pickles aren’t properly preserved, contrary to what many 
cookbooks and food shows say. Using hot vinegar speeds up how quickly the pickles 
are ready to eat, but the heat and pH change isn’t enough to handle C. botulinum .
Without a true canning step, these pickles aren’t safe for long-term storage, even in 
the fridge, as the spores from C. botulinum  are extremely hardy. Treat quick pickles 
like any other perishable food: keep them refrigerated and eat them within a few 
weeks.
• If you want to make shelf-stable pickles, you’ll need to can them. Canning is a 
good example of multiple preservation techniques being combined: cooking sealed  
jars in hot water removes Listeria , and the vinegar drops the pH to a range that 
C. botulinum  spores won’t germinate in. The pH is critical: it must be below 4.6 
because the canning step alone won’t destroy bacterial spores. Even changing the 
ratio of liquid to solids when making pickles can shift the pH! For canning steps for 
bread-and-butter pickles, see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/pickles/ . Tip: you 
don’t need a boiling water canner; use a large pot for boiling the water and a trivet 
you don’t mind getting wet set into the bottom of the pot.
Why aren’t refrigerator pickles actually preserved?
The USDA started studying pickles in the 1930s in its Food Fermentation Laboratory, 
but even as late as 1989 researchers were still finding issues. Listeria monocytogenes  
was showing up in refrigerator pickles contaminated after cooking. It’s not surprising, 
in hindsight: L. monocytogenes  survives in liquids with a pH as low as 3, and in salt 
brines up to at least 10%, and reproduces at 34°F / 1°C, and is odorless and tasteless. 
(It just wants to live! Inside you!) Because regular spoilage bacteria won’t grow in these 
conditions, infected pickles won’t have an off taste or produce any foul-looking stuff. 
The USDA pulled its recommended recipe for refrigerator pickles, but it’s been bouncing 
around ever since.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 390Hervé This on Molecular Gastronomy
PHOTOS USED BY PERMISSION OF HERVÉ THIS
Hervé This (pronounced “teess”) is a 
researcher at L’Institut National de 
la Recherche Agronomique  in Paris 
known for his studies of chemical 
changes that occur in the process of 
cooking. Along with Nicholas Kurti 
and others, he organized the first 
“International Workshop on Molecular 
and Physical Gastronomy, ” held in 1992 
at Erice in Sicily, Italy.
What was the original reason you 
and Dr. Kurti had for picking the 
name “molecular and physical 
gastronomy”?
Nicholas Kurti was a retired professor 
of physics. He loved cooking, and he 
wanted to apply new technology in 
the kitchen—ideas from the physical 
lab, mostly vacuum and cold, low 
temperatures. For myself, the idea was 
different: I wanted to collect and test the 
old wives’ tales of cooking. Also, I wanted 
to use some tools in the kitchen that 
were already in chemistry labs.
For many years, when I was doing an 
experiment in Paris, he was repeating 
it in Oxford, and what he was doing 
in Oxford, I was repeating in Paris. It 
was great fun. In 1988, I proposed to 
Nicholas to create an international 
association of the kind of thing that we were doing. Nicholas said to me that 
it was too early but, probably, it would 
be a good idea to make a workshop 
with friends meeting together. This is 
why we needed a name, so I proposed 
“molecular gastronomy,” and at that 
time, Nicholas, who was a physicist, 
had the feeling that that would put 
too much emphasis on chemistry, so 
he proposed “molecular and physical 
gastronomy.” I accepted the idea only 
because Nicholas was a great friend 
of mine, not because I was convinced 
scientifically.
In the beginning, I published a paper 
in a main journal in organic chemistry, 
and in this paper I made the confusion 
between technology and science. In 
1999, I realized that a clear distinction 
should be made between engineering 
and science because it is different.
How does the work that you do 
with molecular gastronomy differ 
from what a food scientist does 
who publishes in journals such as 
the Journal of Food Science ?
It is a question of history. At that time 
[1988], food science was more the 
science of food ingredients or food 
technology. You had papers on, let’s say, 
the chemical composition of carrots. 
Nicholas and I were not interested at all 
in the chemical composition of carrots, 
in the chemistry of ingredients.
We wanted to do science, to explore 
the phenomena that you observe 
when you cook, and cooking was 
completely forgotten at that time. In 
the previous centuries, Lavoisier and 
others studied how to cook meat broth. 
This was exactly what we are doing. 
Food science had drifted; cooking was completely forgotten. Recently, I took 
the 1988 edition of Food Chemistry  by 
Belitz and Grosch—a very important 
book in food science—and looked at 
the chapters on meat and wine. There is 
almost nothing about cooking wine or 
cooking meat; it is very strange.
It seems like there is much 
confusion about what you 
mean with the term “molecular 
gastronomy. ”
Molecular gastronomy means looking 
for the mechanism of phenomena 
that you observe during cooking 
processes. Food science in general is 
not exactly that. If you look at the table 
of contents of  the Journal of Agricultural 
and Food Chemistry , you will see very 
little material referring to molecular 
gastronomy.
So, molecular gastronomy is a 
subset of food science that deals 
specifically with transformation of 
food?
Exactly, it is a subset. In 2002, I 
introduced a new formalism in order 
to describe the physical organization 
of colloidal matter and of the dishes. 
This formalism can apply to food 
and also to any formulated products: 
drugs, coatings, paintings, dyes, 
cosmetics. It has something to do with 
physical chemistry and, of course, it 
has something to do with molecular 
gastronomy. So it’s true that molecular 
gastronomy is a particular kind of food 
science, but also it’s a particular kind of 
a physical chemistry.
It’s fascinating to see how easy it is 
to make inventions or applications 
from science. Every month I give 
an invention to Pierre Gagnaire. I Preservatives 391interesting, and he decided to make the 
dish after this wonderful emulsion.
One year later I was invited to lecture 
at the Academy of Sciences. I proposed 
to them to make the lecture with a 
dinner from Pierre. We worked for 
three months, meeting every Monday 
morning between 7 and 10. It was so 
fun that we decided that we had to 
play on and we never stopped. It’s not 
collaboration, it’s just playing together, 
where we are children.
It seems like some of the more 
novel cuisines are removed from 
the normal dining experience. How 
much of that experience is created 
by taking scientific discoveries 
and applying them to a meal, as 
opposed to a chef having a concept 
and coming to a scientist and 
asking, “Is there a way to make this?”
Well, there are many questions in that 
one. I have the feeling that we don’t 
cook the way we should. For example, 
we are still roasting chicken. Is it a good 
idea? I don’t know. We ask the question, 
“Should we go on as we always have?” 
Many chefs are changing their ways. 
Many of my inventions are free on 
Pierre Gagnaire’s website, and I know 
that chefs go there to get ideas for the 
kitchen. I publish the ideas for free; 
there are no patents, there is no money 
involved. It is all for free because I want 
to rationalize the way we cook. We 
don’t cook in a rational way. We are still 
roasting chicken.
For one of the books that I published, 
the title was translated as Cooking: 
The Quintessential Art , but in French it 
was Cooking: Love, Art, and Technique . 
The idea that cooking is an art was not 
even admitted some years ago: “Real 
art is painting or music or sculpture or 
literature.” I remember talking with a Tell me more about your 
collaboration with Chef Pierre 
Gagnaire.
I don’t know  if it is a collaboration, it’s a 
friendship. Pierre’s wife told Pierre more 
than 10 years ago, “You’re crazy and 
Hervé is crazy, so you probably could 
play together.”
The real story is that, in 1998, Pierre 
opened a new restaurant in Paris. He was 
launching the restaurant with lunches 
for the press, for the media, for politics, 
etc., and I was invited. I did not know 
him, except from reputation, at the 
time. One year passed, and I was asked 
by the newspaper Libération  for recipes 
for Christmas—scientific recipes. I told 
them I’m not a chef, and that I should 
not give recipes. I proposed, instead, that 
I would invite two wonderful chefs to do 
recipes from ideas that I would give to 
them, and Pierre Gagnaire would be one 
of the two chefs.
When I was in the cab driving to the 
restaurant for the interview and the 
picture, I realized that beer can make a 
foam. It means that you have proteins 
that are surfactants that can wrap the 
air bubbles. If the proteins can wrap the 
air bubbles, it means that they can wrap 
oil. When I arrived in the restaurant, 
Pierre was there; immediately I asked 
him, “Do you have some  beer, and 
some oil, one whisk and one bowl?” 
He looked at me, and he asked for the 
ingredients and the hardware, and I 
told him, “Please, put some beer and 
then whisk the oil into the beer; I can 
predict that you will get an emulsion.” 
And he got it. He tasted 
the emulsion, and 
he found 
it very should not, because it is invention, 
not discovery, but I can tell you that 
I just have to snap the finger and the 
invention is there. I take one idea of 
science, I ask myself, “What can I do with 
that?” and then I find a new application. 
It is very, very easy. The relationship is of 
use, and this is probably the reason why 
there is so much confusion between 
science and technology. We’ve been 
studying carrot stocks. We were 
studying what is going out of carrot 
roots into the water and how is it going 
out. One day, I came to the lab. I was 
looking at two carrot stocks made from 
the same carrot. One stock was brown; 
the other was orange. It was the same 
carrot, same water, same temperature, 
same time of cooking, and one stock 
was brown; the other was orange. I 
stopped everybody in the lab saying, 
“We have to focus on this, because we 
don’t understand anything.”
We focused on this story, and it was due 
to the fact that one preparation was 
made in front of light, and the other 
was in the darkness, and, indeed, we 
discovered that if you shine some light 
on the carrot stock, it will turn brown. 
So we explored the mechanism, how 
it turned brown. It was a discovery, not 
an invention, and thus it was science. At 
the same time, the application is of use, 
because cooks want to get a beautiful 
golden color to stocks, and in order to 
get the brown color, they grill onions 
and they put them in the stock. I can tell 
cooks now: avoid the onions and just 
add some light. So you see, the discovery 
is leading to invention immediately.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 392Their own way can be psychology, 
sociology, history, geography; we need 
the knowledge to understand the 
mechanism of phenomena that we 
observe in cooking. It is a very foolish 
idea to think that we cannot investigate 
all the phenomena. It can be done. 
Imagine that I discover, or someone 
discovers, a way to give more love to 
a dish. It means that the guest will be 
happier. But imagine that you give this 
knowledge to a dishonest guy, then 
the guy would use the knowledge 
dishonestly, and this will increase the 
power of dishonest people. If you give 
the same knowledge to kind people, 
they will do their best. This is the same 
question as with nuclear physics. If 
you are acting poorly, you will make a 
bomb; if you try to act for the good of 
humankind, you will make electricity. 
Science is not responsible for the 
application; you are responsible for the 
application.
I asked Dr. This if he had a favorite experiment that could be 
done at home to learn more about food. His reply:
The most exciting discovery that I did was to 
put fruits like plums in various glasses full of 
water but with different quantities of sugar 
dissolved. In light syrups the fruits sink, but in 
concentrated syrups they float. This is, of course, 
linked with density, but when you wait, the fruits 
in light syrups swell (by osmosis) and explode, 
whereas they shrink in concentrated syrups.
This experiment is useful to know how to make 
a syrup of the exact concentration for preserving 
fruits: put them in concentrated syrup and slowly 
add water until they begin sinking. The osmotic 
pressure is then nil so that they will keep their 
shape and consistency.
Left: cherries in fresh water will sink; center: cherries 
in a light sugar syrup will distribute themselves; 
right: cherries in a heavy sugar syrup will float.need to do some science on the love 
component. Because I’m a physical 
chemist, it’s not very easy for me to 
make this study. It’s still very primitive. 
Currently, the chef behaves intuitively 
with the love component. If someone 
is friendly, he will greet you at the 
entrance of the restaurant, “Ah, here 
you are, very happy to have you,” and 
you are happy because you’re greeted 
as kind of a friend. But this is intuition. 
What I’m saying is that we need to 
scientifically study the mechanism of 
phenomena of this friendship. We don’t 
have this mechanism currently.
It almost sounds like psychology or 
sociology.
It is, exactly. My way of doing molecular 
gastronomy is to do physical chemistry, 
daily, at the lab, but I’m producing 
the concepts so that other people 
can pursue them in their own way. minister of public education in France. 
He was saying, “No, no, no, it’s not 
art. You’re just joking; it’s cooking.” It’s 
love first, then art, then technique. 
Of course, technology can be useful 
only for the technical part, not for the 
art, and not for the love component. 
Nowadays, Ferran of elBulli and Alinea’s 
Grant Achatz are using the technique, 
but there are a lot of possibilities for 
improvement. They will make their own 
interpretation, and then science has 
nothing to do with that. It is personal 
interpretation; it is feeling.
Do you think that elBulli and 
Alinea, or restaurants like them, 
are able to sufficiently use all 
three components: love, art, and 
technique?
The love component of cooking is not 
really formalized. The science needed 
is still not there. I have the idea that we Preservatives 393
Removing the Taste of Sugar
Sugar is often added to preserve foods like 
jam or (in the form of honey) to give sandwich 
breads a darker color. But what if you wanted the 
functional properties of preservation or browning 
without sugar’s sweetness?
A trick of chemistry and taste does just this. 
Lactisole , which I jokingly call “antisugar,” is 
an additive used to reduce the sensation of 
sweetness. (Sadly, mixing sugar and antisugar 
does not release more energy than eating just 
plain sugar, nor does adding antisugar to foods 
reduce the calories.)
One of the challenges the food industry faces is 
maximizing how long foods remain edible while 
maintaining acceptable flavor and texture. In the 
early 1980s, a British researcher, Michael Lindley, 
discovered that the compound lactisole reduces 
the perception of sweetness. Added to foods at a 
concentration of around 100 parts per million 
(ppm), lactisole interferes with your taste buds to 
decrease the sensation of sweetness. (For you bio 
geeks, lactisole is a carboxylic acid salt that 
inhibits the TAS1R3 sweet protein receptor.) 
Unlike traditional methods of dampening 
sweetness in a dish (i.e., adding bitter or sour 
ingredients), lactisole works by inhibiting the 
sensation of sweetness on the tongue, so it does 
not impact perception of other tastes like 
saltiness, bitterness, or sourness.
With lactisole, you can 
make once-perishable 
foods shelf-stable by 
increasing the amount 
of sugar in them and 
then canceling out the 
additional perceived sweetness. Lactisole shows up in products such 
as salad dressings, in which sweetness from 
stabilizers or thickeners would be undesirable, and 
in some mass-manufactured breads. Pizza dough, 
when baked, is more visually appealing if it turns 
golden brown. Adding sugar is an easy way to get 
a browning reaction, but sweet pizza dough isn’t 
so appealing; using lactisole solves that.
Domino sells a product called Super Envision that 
is a blend of mostly sucrose, some maltodextrin, 
and “artificial flavor” at 10,000 ppm. (Lactisole is 
classified as a GRAS additive—it was found in 
roasted Arabica coffee beans—and is thus labeled 
as artificial flavor.) Super Envision is meant to be 
used at around a 1% concentration in the final 
product, so the 10,000 ppm becomes 100 ppm. 
(Hmm, I wonder if that “artificial flavor” could be 
lactisole?)
If you’re able to get your hands on some, try 
tasting it mixed into caramel sauce. Add a 
small quantity of the 
sweetness inhibitor to 
one bowl of caramel 
sauce (see page 228), 
leaving a second bowl 
of caramel unmodified 
for comparison’s sake. 
The flavors of the 
burnt compounds in 
the caramel sauce will 
be stronger in the 
adulterated bowl because 
the sweetness won’t be 
masking them. It’s a 
strange sensation!
OO
O
OCH3Na+
The S enantiomer of lactisole 
inhibits sweet receptors.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 394
Salt is pretty  amazing stuff, but I’ll confess that I’d say that about anything that can 
make ice cream. Adding salt to ice melts the ice because of freezing-point depression —
that’s the lowering of the temperature at which water will freeze. But that’s only 
half the story of how salt and ice make ice cream. Dissolving table salt into water is 
also an endothermic reaction —a process that takes in heat, making the surrounding 
environment cooler.
When you drop a grain of table salt, a.k.a. sodium chloride (NaCl), into water it 
disassociates —splitting into smaller particles. In table salt, it’s the sodium (Na+) 
and chloride (Cl–) that are breaking apart, freeing them to roam around and interact 
with other molecules (or your tongue, in the case of sodium). That disassociation 
doesn’t come for free, though. Breaking those bonds takes energy and cools down the 
surrounding water.
First, grab these supplies:
 1 small resealable plastic bag of about 1 quart (1 liter capacity)
 1 large resealable plastic bag of about 1 gallon (4 liter) capacity or a food container 
or paint can (with a lid) of roughly that size
 12 ice cubes from 1 tray of ice, or about 2 cups (480 mL) of frozen water
 1 cup (290g) salt
 ½ cup (120 mL) heavy cream
 ½ cup (120 mL) milk
 2 tablespoons (25g) sugar
 ½ teaspoon (2.5 mL) vanilla extract
  Towel or gloves to hold the cold bag or container while shaking it (optional, but 
nice to have)
  Digital thermometer (optional)
  Spoon
Here’s what to do:
1. Pour the heavy cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla extract into 
the small plastic bag and seal it, leaving a pocket of air 
inside.
2. Add the ice and salt to the larger bag or container.
3. Place the small, sealed bag into the larger bag/container 
and close it.Lab: Making Ice Cream with Salt and Ice
Preservatives 395
4. Shake the container! If using a paint can, you can roll the can back and forth on 
a tabletop or the ground; if you’re using a bag, massage and shake it. Use gloves 
or wrap the container with a towel to keep your hands from getting too cold. 
After a few minutes, open the container and use a digital thermometer to measure 
the temperature of the salty water. Continue shaking and mixing for about 10 
minutes, until the ice cream mixture has frozen to a soft-serve consistency.
Investigation time!
Open the inner bag and use the spoon to taste the ice cream. What do you notice 
about the texture?
What do you think would happen if you used other compounds instead of salt? What 
would happen if you used Epsom salts, or sodium bicarbonate (baking soda)?
Extra credit:
How much of a difference do you think the endothermic reaction makes? To find out, 
try making two batches of ice cream to test the difference. Make one batch with 1 
cup of salt that’s been frozen, so it’s the same temperature as the ice but not mixed 
in. Then, make a second batch using 2 cups of water and 1 cup of salt mixed together 
that’s then chilled overnight in your freezer. (This is more salt than will fully 
dissolve, which is needed because not all the dry salt comes into contact with the ice 
in the normal method.)
Table salt, NaCl, is just one of many salts that show up in culinary uses: 
potassium chloride is used in salt substitutes (“please pass the potassium 
chloride shaker”?); calcium chloride is used to firm up vegetables (in the same 
manner as calcium in hard water does); and monosodium glutamate (MSG) 
adds glutamic acid to meals.
The amount of energy needed to disassociate table salt’s Na+ and Cl– ions 
is called the lattice  energy . But there’s also heat given off when those ions 
associate with water molecules, called the hydration energy . Different types of 
salts will have different lattice and hydration energies. If the lattice energy is 
greater than the hydration energy, then it’s an endothermic reaction; if it’s the 
other way around, dissolving the salt will create an exothermic reaction —one 
that gives off heat.
Lab: Making Ice Cream with Salt and Ice
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 396
Citrus Marmalade
Making marmalade involves boiling sliced citrus fruits in 
sugar water. The combination of pectin from the citrus 
rind and acid from the fruit’s flesh makes this one of the 
easiest types of jellies to make. Add sugar and water, 
and after heating, the naturally present pectin will form 
a gel. For an intensely bitter and traditional marmalade, 
use Seville oranges, which are extremely high in pectin. 
For a deep red color, try mixing in blood oranges.
Prepare 1 pound (450g) citrus fruits  such as 
lemons, oranges, grapefruit, or limes (or use a mix 
of all four—it’s amazing !) by giving the skins a good 
scrub under water to remove any residues. Slice the 
top and bottom off each fruit, cut it into quarters, 
and then cut out the seeds and center core. Slice 
the fruit into very thin strips and transfer it to a 
saucepan.
Add 1½ cups (300g) sugar  and enough water to 
cover  the fruit and sugar. Bring the mixture to a boil 
and then simmer, with the lid on, for half an hour 
or so, until the rinds are soft. Once the fruit has 
softened, remove it from the heat. If the marmalade is 
too bitter for you at this point, add more sugar.
Cool the marmalade and store it in the fridge.
Notes
• If you’ve made this before, try using some citrus 
juice or honey in place of some of the water. If you 
like, add spices such as whole cloves, a cinnamon 
stick, or a vanilla bean to the mix before boiling it.
• Besides slathering it on toast, try using a 
spoonful of the marmalade in steel-cut oatmeal, 
on pancakes, whisked into yogurt, as part of an 
appetizer cheese plate, in baked goods, or mixed in 
with whipped cream on top of cake. Marmalades can 
also be great as glazes on pork chops or duck, mixed 
in with roasted root vegetables, and even tossed in 
a vinaigrette for salad dressings.Candied Orange Rind
Candied rind  is great chopped up and added 
to cookies, on top of desserts, or simply 
dipped into tempered chocolate (see page 
157). Boiling the rind softens the tissue and 
neutralizes one of the bitter compounds 
in citrus pith, limonin . Sugar acts as a 
preservative by binding with water, but it’s 
not foolproof. Mold needs less available water 
than bacteria to grow, so if your rinds are too 
moist, you may see mold growth (and not the 
delicious kind). 
In a pot, bring to a boil:
 2 cups (480 mL) water
 2 cups (400g) sugar
  Rinds from 3  –6 oranges, cut into 
strips about ¼” / 0.5 cm wide
Simmer for 20–30 minutes, until the rinds 
are tender. Remove the rinds from the pot 
and dry them on paper towels. Store the 
rinds in a container with sugar surrounding 
them to further dry them out.
Note
• Try other citrus fruits, such as 
grapefruits, lemons, limes, or tangerines, 
or fruits such as cherries, peaches, 
or apples. You can add spices such 
as cinnamon to the water as well, or 
substitute dark rum or 
a liqueur such as 
Grand Marnier 
for part of the 
water.Flavorings 397Flavorings
The flavor of food is incredibly important—arguably the single most important variable in 
your enjoyment of a meal. Flavors change our behavior: the smell of freshly baked bread 
draws us into the bakery, the aroma of fresh herbs and toasted spices in a meal makes 
us salivate, and the memory of what something tasted like brings us back for another 
purchase. The loss of smell— anosmia —is considered one of the most severe sensory losses. 
Think about the last time you had a cold with a plugged-up nose—food becomes so much 
less appealing without flavor!
Being able to add flavors to foods opens up new possibilities. Industry relies on flavorings as 
part of mass manufacturing. An acquaintance of mine who used to work at Campbell Soup 
Company pointed out that meats lose most of their flavor when steam-cooked (which is how 
chicken for chicken noodle soup is cooked at scale), so flavorings have to be added back in. 
Coloring extracts are added too, even if their source is traditional ingredients such as turmeric 
(yellow), paprika (red), or caramel (brown). Flavor is absolutely critical to industry, which 
knows very, very well that a quickly tapering-off flavor causes you to reach for a second bite, 
and an appealing flavor triggers a repurchase the next time you’re at the store.
Creating good aromas and flavors is so critical that there are several categories of E numbers 
just for compounds that change taste. One category, flavor enhancers (E600s), alters the 
way foods taste. (“Flavor enhancers” is something of a misnomer; “taste enhancers” would 
be better.) Most of the compounds in this range are glutamic acid salts  like MSG (E621), 
but there are also those that make foods taste sweeter, like the amino acid glycine (E640). 
Speaking of sweet: artificial sweeteners (E900s) get their own E number category that 
includes compounds such as sucralose (E955) and stevia’s active chemical (E960). Unless 
you have some rather impressive lab equipment in your kitchen, making E-numbered 
compounds isn’t exactly a home project. (Time to whip up some fresh guanylic acid!?) Keep 
in mind that there are plenty of traditional ways to boost tastes, such as adding ingredients 
high in glutamic acids (see page 76), or simply a pinch of salt.
But what about actual flavorings? As I mentioned earlier, the E number list isn’t an exhaustive 
source of food additives. Vanillin doesn’t show up, even though it’s a single molecule with a 
well-defined structure that’s often added to food. Home cooks use vanilla extract, though, 
not vanillin powder, and that’s where we can get into some fun, creative experiments: flavor 
extracts.
Flavoring extracts are used to add new aromas to food or amplify existing ones. Their 
functional purpose is to carry volatile compounds—ones that easily evaporate—to tickle 
the sensory apparatus of the nose. Luckily, many volatile compounds in food are also easily 
dissolved by solvents. Solvents, as we’ll see, are the key to creating extracts that can carry 
flavors.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 398In cooking, we use three primary solvents: water, lipids, and alcohol. Each works on different 
types of compounds, so matching the chemistry of the solvent to the chemistry of the 
volatile compound is the key to making good extracts. The same chemical principle that 
allows water to dissolve compounds also applies to lipids and ethanol, so which solvent to 
use depends on the structure of the compounds being dissolved.
But how  does a solvent work? What happens when one molecule bumps into another 
molecule? Will they form a bond (called an intermolecular bond —one that happens 
between different molecules) or repel each other? It depends on a number of forces 
that stem from differences in the electrical charges and charge distributions of the two 
molecules. Of the four types of bonds defined in chemistry, two are important in flavoring 
extracts: polar and nonpolar.
A molecule that has an uneven electrical field around it or that has an uneven arrangement 
of electrons is polar . The simplest arrangement, where two sides of a molecule have 
opposite electrical charges, is called a dipole . Water is polar because the two hydrogen 
atoms attach themselves to the oxygen atom such that the molecule as a whole has a 
negatively charged side—it’s a dipole.
When two polar molecules bump into each other, a strong bond forms between a 
positive region on the first molecule and a negative region on the second molecule, just 
like when two magnets are lined up. On the atomic level, the area of the first molecule 
that has a positive charge is balancing out the area of the second molecule that has a 
negative charge.
A water molecule is polar because of an asymmetric distributions of 
charges. This happens because oxygen is more electronegative than 
hydrogen and the bent shape of the water molecule. This shape gives 
it a positive charge on one side and a negative charge on the opposite 
side, making it polar.
A molecule that has a symmetric shape or atoms with only a small 
difference in electronegativity has a symmetric charge distribution 
on all sides—this is called nonpolar . Oil is nonpolar because it is made 
of mostly carbon and hydrogen, two molecules which have small 
differences in electronegativity.
In most cases, when a polar molecule bumps into a nonpolar molecule, the polar molecule 
is unlikely to find an electron to balance out its electrical field. It’s like trying to stick a 
magnet to a piece of wood: the magnet and wood aren’t actively repelled by each other, 
but they’re also not actually attracted. A polar and nonpolar molecule won’t form a bond 
and end up drifting off elsewhere, continuing to bounce around into other molecules.H HOFlavorings 399This is why oil and water don’t normally mix, but sugar and water easily do. The water 
molecules are polar and form strong intermolecular bonds with other polar molecules—
they’re able to balance out each other’s electrical charges. At an atomic level, the oil doesn’t 
provide a sufficiently strong bonding opportunity for the negatively charged side of the 
water molecule. Water and sugar (sucrose), however, get along fine. Sucrose is also polar, so 
the electrical fields of the two molecules are able to line up to some degree.
The strength of the intermolecular bond depends on how well the solvent and solute 
compounds line up, which is why some things dissolve together well while others only 
dissolve together to a certain point. A number of organic compounds that provide aromas 
in food are readily dissolved in ethanol but not in water or fats.
You will invariably encounter dishes where alcohol is used for its 
chemical properties, either as a medium to carry flavors or as a tool 
for making flavors in the food available in sufficient quantity for your 
olfactory system to notice. Alcohol is often added to sauces or stews to 
aid in releasing aromatic compounds “locked up” in the ingredients. Try 
adding red wine to a tomato sauce!Toasting spices in oil—called 
blooming —causes the oil to 
capture flavor volatiles from the 
spices that evaporate as the 
seeds are heated.
Does Alcohol “Burn Off” in Cooking?
No, not entirely. Even though the boiling point 
of pure ethanol (C2H5OH) is lower than that of 
water at atmospheric pressure (173°F / 78°C), 
the intermolecular bonding between ethanol, 
water, and other compounds in the food is strong 
enough that its boiling point varies based on the 
concentration of ethanol in the food and how 
strongly it bonds with other compounds.The amount of alcohol remaining after cooking 
depends on the cooking methods, according to a 
paper published by researchers at the University 
of Idaho. They happen to be at 2,500 feet / 
762 meters above sea level, meaning the vapor 
pressure would be lower than at sea level, just in 
case you need an excuse…
Cooking method % alcohol remaining
Alcohol added to boiling liquid and removed from heat 85%
Alcohol flamed 75%
No heat, stored overnight 70%
Baked, 25 minutes, alcohol not stirred into mixture 45%
Baked/simmered, alcohol stirred into mixture…
…for 15 minutes 40%
…for 30 minutes 35%
…for 1 hour 25%
…for 2 hours 10%
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 400
Vanilla Extract
Vanilla extract is a classic example of using alcohol as a solvent. Very few plant-based 
compounds are soluble in water—they’d wash away in nature. Hot water will work in 
some cases—how else would mint or chamomile tea work?—but when making extracts, 
you’ll need to use either ethanol or fat, depending upon the molecule you’re trying to 
extract. (Most aromas are based on multiple compounds, a detail I’m skipping here.)
Vanilla extract is easy to make. Ethanol from a spirit such as vodka (80 proof will 
be about 40% ethanol) will dissolve some of the 200+ compounds in the vanilla bean 
responsible for vanilla aroma, including vanillin, which gives vanilla most of its hallmark 
flavor. (The different ratios of some of the more pronounced compounds are what cause 
differences between various cultivars of vanilla.)
Vanilla beans are still pricey. Buy them online, and for making vanilla extract, Grade B 
is just fine. (Grade B is what industry normally uses—who cares that the pods aren’t as 
pretty when they’re going to be chopped up?)
In a small glass jar with a tight-fitting lid, put:
 1 vanilla bean (~5g), sliced open lengthwise and chopped into strips to fit jar
 2 tablespoons (30 mL) vodka (use enough to cover the vanilla bean)
 ½ teaspoon (2g) sugar
Screw the lid on the jar or place plastic wrap over the jar’s top and store it in a cool, 
dark place (e.g., a pantry). Give the extract at least several weeks to steep.
Notes
• The vanilla bean can be left over from some other recipe. If you cook with vanilla 
frequently, consider keeping the jar of vanilla constantly topped off. Whenever you 
use a vanilla bean, add it to the jar, removing an old one when space requires it. 
And as you use the extract, occasionally top off the jar with a bit 
more liquid.
• Play with other variations: instead of vodka, which is 
used for its high ethanol content and general lack of 
flavor, you can use other spirits such as rum, brandy, or 
a blend of these. Or, instead of vanilla beans, try using 
star anise, cloves, or cinnamon sticks. Try varying both 
solvent and solute (e.g., Grand Marnier with orange peel in 
it).
Flavorings 401
Infused Oils and Herbed Butters
Infused oils and herbed butters, like extracts used in cooking, can carry flavor from 
plants into your food. Unlike extracts, which have a harsh taste from the alcohol, 
infusions can be used as part of the finished dish. Salad dressed with a basil-infused oil? 
Salmon drizzled with rosemary-infused oil? Basil butter on bread? Next time you have 
extra herbs, try mixing them in with a fat.
Fats and oils are nonpolar molecules (see page 398), so given the chemistry rule of 
thumb that like dissolves like , it’s no surprise that they dissolve other polar molecules. 
Many odor compounds are bound up in plant oils—oregano has carvacrol in oil droplets 
on the leaf surface—but not all plant odor compounds are fat-soluble. I tried making 
sage-infused oil with only mild success; a search online showed that one of the primary 
odorants of sage, manool, is normally dissolved with alcohol. A quick test making an 
ethanol-based sage extract worked instantly, giving recognizable sage flavor. If you find 
an herb doesn’t infuse well, use it for herbed butter. Unlike infused oils that have the 
plant matter strained out, herbed butters don’t rely on the fat solubility of the odorants.
Infused Oils
You can infuse oils using either a cold process or heat process. Cold processing is 
better for herbs; spices do better in heated oils, which will bloom them, changing 
their flavor.
1. In a small bowl, measure out about 1 cup (240 mL) of a high-quality, neutral 
oil such as grapeseed , sunflower , or canola oil ; for stronger-flavored herbs, a 
mild olive oil  works well. 
2. Infuse!
3. For herb infusions, follow a cold process:  Add 2–4 tablespoons (10–20g) 
herbs such as rosemary , oregano , or basil, finely diced . Optionally add 1–2 
tablespoons (5–10g) parsley  to make the infused oil greener. Using either 
a traditional blender or an immersion blender, blend the oil and herbs for 30 
seconds or so. This will speed up the rest period; otherwise, you’ll need to let the 
mixture rest in the fridge for much longer.
4. For spice infusions, follow a heat process:  Add spices to the oil; try using a 
single spice, like cardamom or cinnamon, or a mix. For a simple curry oil, use 
2 tablespoons (12g) curry powder , 1 tablespoon (6g) fresh ginger  (finely 
minced), and ½ teaspoon (1g) cayenne pepper or chili flakes . Add the oil to 
a pan over medium heat and heat the mixture for a few minutes to bloom the 
spices. (You should be able to smell them!)
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 402
5. Transfer the infused oil back into the small bowl and cover. Cold-processed oils 
should rest for a few hours or overnight in the fridge. Heat-based infusions 
can be used right away, but allow them to rest a few minutes to cool to room 
temperature.
6. For clearer infusions with fresh herbs, filter the mixture though a fine mesh 
strainer or a strainer lined with cheesecloth (after it’s rested!). To avoid 
cloudiness, don’t press down on the mixture; allow it to drip separate for a few 
minutes.
Herbed Butters
Herbed butters are easier than infused oils: they don’t rely on the flavor compound 
dissolving because the plant matter itself remains as part of the final product. Use 
flavorful herbs; more tender herbs like chives, tarragon, and sage are fast and easy 
to work with.
In a small mixing bowl, let ½ cup (115g) butter  come up to room temperature. If 
your butter is unsalted, add ½ teaspoon (3g) salt ; optionally add freshly ground 
pepper . Add about 2–3 tablespoons (10–15g) herb leaves , washed and diced, and 
with any stems removed (you don’t want little twiggy things in your butter!). Using 
a fork, mash the herbs and any seasoning into the butter. Serve it with bread or use 
it as an ingredient—try spreading a thin layer on top of cooked fish or meats.
Notes
• Infusing a food’s odor compounds into oil or vinegar doesn’t change the properties 
of the compound. If it’s heat-sensitive in the ingredient, it’s going to be heat-
sensitive in the infused version. Pan-searing pork with sage butter works fine, but a 
basil-infused oil would suffer.
• Store fresh-herb-infused oils and herbed butters in the fridge and use them within 
a week. Oils and fats with non-acidic wet plant matter immersed in them create a 
perfect anaerobic breeding ground for botulism. While uncommon, it is fatal if given 
time to fester. If you want to make shelf-stable infused oils with “wet” ingredients, 
you will either need to properly pressure-can the jars or acidify the plant matter—
see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/infusedoils/  for details. Dried spices 
and dried herbs don’t have enough moisture to support rapid microbial growth, so 
infusions like dried peppers in oil that are heat-processed can be used for up to 3 
months, although the US FDA recommendations are to keep them refrigerated and 
use them within 3 weeks. Infused Oils and Herbed Butters (continued )
Flavorings 403
Liquid Smoke, a.k.a. Water-Distilled Smoke Vapor
Smoking foods as a method of preservation was presumably discovered 
eons ago by cave-dwelling fire builders, but for us today, smoking is 
carried out for a second reason: smoked foods are delicious. By burning 
wood or other combustibles and directing the resulting smoke vapors 
toward fishes or meats, we deposit antimicrobial compounds onto the 
foods, preventing their spoilage. It’s only a quirk that the preservation 
process also deposits a whole bunch of smoky aromas that we happen 
to enjoy. But how can modern apartment dwellers get that delicious 
flavor without creating a bonfire in the center of the kitchen?
There’s a neat trick to capture smoke flavors into something called 
liquid smoke . Because those delicious smoky flavors are water-soluble 
byproducts of the chemical reactions that occur as wood burns, they can 
be dissolved into water and later applied to food. The commercial food industry does this to 
infuse smoke flavor into foods that are traditionally smoked but aren’t economical to smoke 
in large scale, such as bacon, and to add smoky flavors into foods whose flavor is enhanced 
by smoke essence but that could never actually be smoked, such as “smoked” tofu.
At home, the simplest way of creating a smoked flavor in your cooking—besides actually 
smoking it—is to include ingredients that are already smoked. You can infuse smoke flavors 
into your dish by adding spices such as chipotle peppers or smoked paprika, or by using dry 
rubs with smoked salts or smoked teas such as Lapsang Souchong. However, including smoked 
ingredients will also bring along the other flavors of the substance being used. Smoked salts, for 
example, can add too much salt to a dish. This is where liquid smoke comes in.
Liquid smoke isn’t complicated. There shouldn’t be a long list of ingredients on any bottle 
you buy; it should just read “water, smoke. ” In and of itself, liquid smoke is not processed, 
in that there aren’t any chemical modifications or refining steps that alter or change the 
compounds that would have been present in traditional smoking.
Making liquid smoke involves heating wood chips to a temperature high enough for the 
lignins in wood to burn (around 752°F / 400°C) and piping the resulting smoke through 
water. The water-soluble components of smoke remain dissolved in the water, while the 
non-water-soluble components either precipitate out and sink or form an oil layer that 
floats and is then discarded. The resulting product is an amber-tinted liquid that you can 
brush onto meats or mix in with your ingredients.
Incidentally, the wood chips turn into charcoal in the process; they’re carbonized, but 
without oxygen present, they can’t combust. You can create your own charcoal by sealing 
up wood chips inside a container that will vent out smoke but not circulate air back in. You 
can also make charcoal from materials besides wood. I know one chef who uses leftover 
Kent Kirshenbaum demonstrates 
making liquid smoke using a 
blowtorch and a round-bottom flask 
at a New York University talk.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 404
corn cobs and lobster shells to create “corn cob charcoal” and “lobster charcoal, ” and 
because some of the flavor molecules from those items are extremely heat-stable, using the 
charcoal for cooking imparts a whiff of those flavors as well.
In theory, some of the mutagenic, cancer-causing compounds normally present in 
traditionally smoked foods are present in much smaller quantities in liquid smoke—they 
end up in the oil phase or precipitate—so using liquid smoke may be somewhat safer for 
you than traditionally smoking foods. However, liquid smoke still has some amount of 
mutagenic compounds present. As a substitute for smoked foods, it should be as safe, 
possibly safer, as traditional smoking, but you probably shouldn’t douse a teaspoon of it on 
your eggs every morning.
Liquid smoke is fascinating stuff, as you can see. Try snagging a bottle of 
it and revisiting the Salmon Gravlax recipe from page 385, adding 10–15 
drops to the salt mixture to give it a smoked flavor. Some of the more 
unusual recipes use liquid smoke to “smoke” foods that can’t normally 
be tossed onto a wood-burning grill, such as ice cream. With all the 
processing that happens to our foods, it’s nice to see that one of the more 
exotic-sounding ones turns out to be one of the most primitive ones.When grilling, make sure your fire 
is hot enough so that the lignins, 
not just the celluloses, break 
down.
Wood chips before heating... ...and after heating.
Charcoal is traditionally made by heating 
combustible materials like wood in the absence of 
oxygen ( called pyrolysis ), evaporating water and 
breaking down volatile compounds. The result is 
a solid lump of mostly carbon that combusts more 
quickly than the original material would have.Flavorings 405
S’mores Ice Cream
S’mores ice cream? You can’t roast ice cream, 
but with liquid smoke, you can add in the smoky 
flavor. You’ll need a standard ice cream mixer, or 
you can go all-out geek and either make your own 
(see the lab on making ice cream with salt and ice 
on page 394) or use liquid nitrogen (see page 363).
This recipe uses liquid smoke to impart the 
toasted flavor of campfire-roasted marshmallows 
(make your own—see page 381). The concept was 
inspired by a demo by Kent Kirshenbaum of NYU’s 
Experimental Cuisine Collective.
To create the base, combine in a mixing bowl:
 2 cups (480 mL) whole milk
 1 cup (240 mL) heavy cream
 1/3 cup (65g) sugar
 ¼ cup (60 mL) chocolate syrup
 ¾ cup (25g) medium-sized marshmallows
 15 drops (0.75 mL) liquid smoke
Proceed with the directions for your chosen 
method of making ice cream. Once the ice 
cream has set, stir in:
 1 cup (60g) graham crackers, toasted and 
chopped into pieces
Serve the ice cream with hot fudge or chocolate 
syrup—whipped cream, cherries, and nuts 
optional.
Note
• Try freezing the graham crackers after 
toasting and chopping them up but before 
adding them to the base. This will yield 
crunchier graham cracker bits, as they won’t 
absorb as much moisture when frozen. This 
trick works for most dry goods that would 
normally get soggy when added to the ice 
cream base.Oven-Cooked 
Barbecue Ribs
In a large baking pan (9” × 13” / 23 cm × 33 
cm), place:
 2 pounds (900g) pork baby back ribs, excess 
fat trimmed off
In a small bowl, create a dry rub by mixing:
 1 tablespoon (18g) salt
 1 tablespoon (14g) brown sugar
 1 tablespoon (6g) cumin seed
 1 tablespoon (9g) mustard seed
 20 drops (1 mL) liquid smoke
Cover the ribs with the spice mix. Cover the 
baking pan with foil and bake at 300°F / 150°C 
for 2 hours.
In a small bowl, create a sauce by mixing:
 4 tablespoons (60 mL) ketchup
 1 tablespoon (15 mL) soy sauce
 1 tablespoon (14g) brown sugar
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) Worcestershire sauce
Remove the foil from the baking pan and coat 
the ribs with the sauce. Bake for 45 minutes, or 
until done.
Note
• Experiment with other savory spices in the 
dry rub, such as chilies, garlic, or paprika. 
Also, try adding items such as onions, garlic, 
or Tabasco to the sauce.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 406
This is an advanced home project, but if you’re up 
for the challenge, it’s fun to make. It’s also a great 
example of what chemists call dry distillation —
separating compounds from solids under heat. 
(See page 360 for more about distillation.) Treat 
this as an experiment about process; I wouldn’t 
use the finished product on your foods.
The smells and tastes of smoky, barbecue 
goodness are from chemical reactions that occur 
during pyrolysis (burning) of wood, not from any 
chemical interaction between food and smoke. 
Some of the desirable compounds generated 
by smoke are water-soluble, a lucky quirk that 
means we can isolate them by piping smoke 
through water to dissolve those compounds. Other 
compounds are less pleasant—at strong enough 
concentrations, some of them can smell rotten, 
like old, foul garbage.
Wood is primarily made of cellulose, hemicellulose, 
and lignin, all of which convert to thousands 
of different chemical compounds during 
burning. The aromatic molecules that provide 
smoke flavoring are generated by the lignin, 
which breaks down at around 750°F / 400°C. 
Cellulose and hemicellulose break down at lower 
temperatures (480–570°F / 250–300°C), but they 
generate compounds that both detract from the 
flavor and are mutagenic. Burning wood at too 
low a temperature can create creosote, a black oily 
residue generated from incomplete combustion of 
wood that is denser than water.
Note that wood or charcoal grills tend to heat 
their enclosures several hundred degrees hotter 
than gas-based ones.First, grab these supplies:
Hickory or cedar wood chips (or any other wood chips 
suitable for smoking)
An aluminum foil disposable baking pan and tight-fit -
ting lid (any shape pan will do; pie tins work well)
A 16–24” / 40–60 cm length of copper pipe, ½” / 1 cm 
diameter or smaller
A copper L-shaped elbow that fits tightly onto the copper 
pipe (available in your hardware store near the pipes)
2 ounces / 60 mL of heat-safe epoxy, such as J-B Weld 
original cold epoxy
A paper plate or piece of cardboard, for mixing epoxy
A plastic knife or popsicle stick, for mixing epoxy
A small glass bowl
Water for the glass bowl
An oven mitt or dry towel
And, obviously, a grill and fuel for the grill
Here’s what to do:
We’re going to smoke the wood chips in the 
disposable baking pan that’s been sealed with 
epoxy (which will need to cure for several hours—
plan ahead!), and then vent the smoke out 
through a pipe into a glass bowl filled with water. 
While the instructions are long, they’re easy:
1. Attach the L-shaped elbow to one end of the 
copper pipe. It should fit snugly.
2. Check that the pipe will fit on your grill: open 
your grill, lay the pipe with the elbow end 
extending off the edge to the side and the 
empty end somewhere near the center of the 
grill. The elbow end will need to point down 
and vent into the small glass bowl, so adjust 
your setup accordingly. Two important things to 
check at this point: 1) make sure that you can Lab: How to Make Liquid SmokeFlavorings 407
close the grill lid; 2) make sure that the bottom 
part of the elbow will be submerged at least ¼” 
in the water once the glass bowl is topped off.
3. Using the empty end of the pipe, punch a hole 
in the side of the disposable baking pan. You 
can do this by pressing the pipe against the 
side of the pan and rotating it back and forth, 
almost like a drill bit; after a few seconds, it 
should cut through the foil.
4. Set the baking pan onto the grill (which 
should be off!) and feed the pipe through the 
hole. Line up the elbow such that it vents into 
the empty glass bowl.
5. Add the wood chips to the baking pan, putting 
a full layer in the bottom. At this point, your 
setup should look something like this:
6. Mix the epoxy, using the paper plate or 
cardboard as a palette and a plastic knife or 
popsicle stick to stir it.
7. Seal the hole where the pipe enters the baking 
pan by smearing epoxy all around the pipe at the 
point right inside the baking pan and pulling the 
pipe out a tiny bit to drag some epoxy through 
and plug up the hole.
8. Prepare to seal the top of the baking pan by 
lining the pan’s top edge with epoxy. Place the 
lid on top of the pan, fold down the edges, and 
crimp and squeeze tight around all edges.9. Wait several hours for the epoxy to cure.
10. Check that the epoxy is cured by gently 
pushing the pipe near where it enters the 
disposable baking pan. It shouldn’t move.
11. Fire up the grill! After a few minutes, you 
should start to see steam and then smoke 
venting out of the 
pipe. Once that starts 
happening, add water 
to the bowl. You should 
start seeing smoke 
bubbles billowing 
through the water. Yay!
12. Let the grill run for 5–15 minutes. You should 
notice the water change in appearance. If 
you’re using a gas grill, turn the heat off at 
this point; otherwise, use the oven mitt or 
towel to pick up the copper pipe and vent it 
outside of the water, and allow the grill to 
burn out.
Investigation time!
Examine the water. What do you notice? What 
colors do you see?
Is there stuff floating on top? What does it 
smell like? What do you think happens, in 
terms of odor, when some compounds are more 
concentrated than normal?
Pour off some of the top layer and look at the 
liquid in the middle. Dip just a tiny part of your 
finger into it and carefully taste a little. What 
does it taste like?
Remember the creosote described earlier? Do you 
notice anything like that? What would that mean 
about the temperature of your grill?
Lab: How to Make Liquid Smoke
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 408Thickeners
Potato Flour
158ºF
70ºC147ºF
64ºC176ºF
80ºC185ºF
85ºC220ºF
105ºCTapioca Most grain-based starches 
(e.g., cornstarch, wheat /f_lour) 
gelatinize/uni00A0/uni00A0
150ºF 200ºF
93ºC250ºFArrowroot
Gelation temperatures of common starches.
Starches are used to thicken many foods—gravies, pies, sauces—because they’re easy to 
use and easy to find. It’s no surprise that starches are used as thickeners in almost all of 
the world’s cuisines! Wheat flour is common in Western cooking for its starch, cornstarch is 
common in Chinese dishes, and tapioca starch and potato starch (sometimes called “potato 
flour” but not actually a flour) are also common. Many modern thickeners like maltodextrin 
are also derived from starch, and have been developed for use in everything from baking 
jam-filled pastries to creating novel textures in high-end cuisine.
Starches are made up of two compounds, amylose and amylopectin. The ratio of these 
two compounds and how a plant stores them differs between types of plants, which is 
why starches from wheat flour need near-boiling water to thicken while potato starch 
will set at lower temperatures. (This is also why different plants need different cooking 
temperatures—see page 205 for more.)
A starch’s thickening power is determined by both its amylopectin and amylose content. 
With heat and moisture, starches swell up and gelatinize, absorbing water into the 
molecular structure and changing its texture. (This is what happens to pasta when you 
cook it!) Amylopectin absorbs water, and starches 
with higher levels of it will absorb more moisture 
(cornstarch and wheat starch are roughly 75% 
amylopectin, while tapioca and potato are 
80–85%). After gelatinizing, another process 
unfolds— gelation —which is amylose leaving 
the starch granule and entering the surrounding 
water. It’s this change that gives starches with 
higher amylose content their ability to thicken 
and gel foods.
How quickly and how much a starch can thicken 
a liquid depends on the size of the starch 
granules. (Starch is stored in granules; it will take The starch structure varies based on the plant, which is 
why different types of starches have different thickening 
capabilities. When heated in water to near-boiling, 3 
teaspoons (8g) of flour is approximately the same as:
 1½ teaspoons (4g) cornstarch
 1½ teaspoons (4g) arrowroot
 1 teaspoon (3g) tapioca starch
 2/3 teaspoon (6g) potato starch
Flour isn’t as good a thickening agent as pure starches 
are, because it contains other stuff in addition to starch: 
proteins, fat, fiber, and minerals.
Thickeners 409longer for the amylose to leach out of larger granules.) Likewise, the length and ratios of 
the molecular structures and variations in the crystalline structure will impact the speed 
and degree to which a starch will thicken; these structures are determined by the growing 
conditions of the plant. Moisture, too, is critically important for thickening—the starch 
has to absorb water in order to swell! This is why adding too much sugar can slow down 
cooking times for sweet liquids: sugar, being hygroscopic, competes for the water, so be 
sure to cook sugary liquids longer.
Thickened foods can exhibit a phenomenon known as shear thinning , which is when 
a substance changes its viscosity under certain conditions. Many sauces, like ketchup, 
mustard, and mayonnaise, hold their shape—a blob of ketchup doesn’t settle down—but 
will flow and change shape when pressure is applied (this property is called thixotropy ). 
Squeeze the bottle or tube, and the sauce flows easily, but let go, and it holds its shape. 
With enough of a thickening agent, a food will firm up to a true solid: one with a defined 
shape that can be sliced, poked, and prodded.
Arrowroot and Cornstarch
Two of the most common thickeners are arrowroot and cornstarch. The former is derived 
from a root and the latter from a grain, a fact that is responsible for a number of differences 
between the two. It’s because of these differences that one or the other will work better, 
depending upon the chemistry of the dish it’s being used in.
Like all starch-based thickeners, arrowroot and cornstarch thicken mixtures when 
amylopectin swells to absorb water and amylose leaches out of the starch granules. 
Depending upon the recipe, they can be used as binders in place of eggs (mix 2 
tablespoons / 15g starch with 3 tablespoons / 45 mL of water) or to make fried foods 
crispier (mix a few spoonfuls of starch and seasoning spices together and toss ingredients 
like tofu or chicken in the mix before pan-frying them).
Native
Cornstarch
Gelled
Cornstarch
Gelatinized
CornstarchAmylose
Amylose leaks out of cornstarch granules heated with water; upon cooling, the amylose molecules form a gel.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 410Arrowroot starch CornstarchInstructions for 
kitchen useTo thicken liquids, use toward the end of cooking: 
create a slurry in cold liquid like water, mix in, and 
briefly cook until set. Avoid boiling.
Arrowroot has a nearly neutral taste, making it a 
better choice for mild-tasting dishes.To thicken liquids, use at the beginning of cook -
ing, create a roux  (starch cooked in fat, usually 
flour in butter), and then whisk other liquids in.
For use in the middle of cooking, create a slurry in 
cold liquid and add to ingredients. Adding corn -
starch directly to a hot liquid will result in clumps.TemperatureRoot starches require less heat to gelatinize.
Arrowroot starches begin to gelatinize at around 
147°F / 64°C; the general rule of thumb for root 
starches is between 149°F / 65°C and 185°F / 85°C.Grain starches require more heat to gelatinize. 
(Temperatures above ground in direct sunlight 
can be hot, so the starch granule structure com -
pensates to avoid cooking!)
Cornstarch, like most above-ground starches, 
gelatinizes in the range of 200–220°F / 93–105°C, 
so use simmering or boiling liquids to set.Things to avoidAvoid dairy. When combined, arrowroot and 
dairy form a slimy, gooey mixture. Use cornstarch 
for dairy-based dishes.
Don’t overheat.  Like most root starches, arrow -
root thickens at low temperatures. Near-boiling 
temperatures or long, warm hold times can 
degrade the gel.Don’t freeze.  Cornstarch-thickened items will 
“weep, ” or expel liquid (called syneresis ), when fro -
zen and thawed.
Avoid too-acidic solutions.  Cornstarch doesn’t 
work well in acidic solutions (pH below 4). Either 
add acidic ingredients after thickening or use 
arrowroot.Industry 
usesUsed to form clearer gels (arrowroot forms a 
clearer gel than cornstarch).
Arrowroot is also a suitable replacement for indi -
viduals with corn allergies.Cornstarch is gluten-free, so in addition to tradi -
tional uses, it’s also used as a thickening substitute 
for gluten-free items.Origin and chemistryDerived from the rhizome of the tropical Central 
and South American plant Maranta arundinacea , 
arrowroot was first used by Europeans as a sup -
posed cure for poison arrows (hence the name) 
and other medicinal woes in the 17th century. The 
1830s and 1840s saw its introduction as a health 
food, and it’s been used in culinary applications 
ever since.
Arrowroot starch is created by grating and soak -
ing the rhizome, allowing the starches to sepa -
rate out and sink. The slurry is separated and then 
dried. It’s a simple process that can be done by 
hand—perhaps a fun lab activity if you can get 
your hands on some fresh arrowroot!Derived from corn (shocker, I know), cornstarch 
was first made in 1842 and commercialized in 
1844. Production significantly ramped up by the 
late 1850s, presumably as a cheaper, less objec -
tionable alternative to arrowroot (which had to be 
grown in the subtropics and shipped, and whose 
health-conscious users objected to the slave labor 
involved at the time).
Cornstarch is created by grinding corn, steeping it 
in warm water with a softening agent (which also 
prevents fermentation; we need to prevent the 
starches from getting digested!), then separating 
the corn starches from corn proteins via centri -
fuge. The starch slurry is then washed and dried.Thickeners 411
Lemon Meringue Pie 
Lemon meringue pie 
is the combination 
of three separate 
components, each with 
its own chemistry and 
challenges: pie dough, 
a meringue, and a custard-like filling. We’ve already 
covered pie dough (see page 259) and meringues 
(see page 293), so the only thing left is the filling 
itself. Flip to those recipes for instructions on how 
to make the pie dough and meringue topping, and 
blind-bake the bottom shell.
To make the lemon custard, place in a saucepan 
off heat and whisk together:
 2½ cups (500g) sugar
 ¾ cup (100g) cornstarch
 ½ teaspoon (3g) salt
Add 3 cups (720 mL) of water , whisk the 
ingredients together, and place the saucepan over 
medium heat. Stir the mixture until boiling and the 
cornstarch has set. Remove the pan from the heat.
In a separate bowl, whisk together:
 6 egg yolks
Save the whites  for making the meringue. Make 
sure not to get any egg yolk in the whites! The 
fats in the yolk (nonpolar) will prevent the whites 
from being able to form a foam when whisked.
Slowly add about a quarter of the cornstarch 
mixture to the egg yolks while whisking 
continuously. This will mix the yolks into the 
cornstarch mixture without cooking the egg yolks 
(tempering). Transfer the entire egg mixture 
back into the saucepan, whisk in the following 
ingredients, and return the pan to medium heat and cook the mixture until the eggs are set, about 
a minute:
 1 cup (240 mL) lemon juice (juice of about 4 
lemons)
  Zest from the lemons (optional; skip if 
using bottled lemon juice)
Transfer the filling to a prebaked pie shell. Cover 
the shell with Italian meringue made using the 6 
egg whites (see page 293, making a double batch), 
and bake the pie in a preheated oven at 375°F 
/ 190°C for 10–15 minutes, until the meringue 
begins to turn brown on top. Remove the pie and 
let it cool for at least 4 hours—unless you want to 
serve it in soup bowls with spoons—so that the 
cornstarch has time to gel.
To create decorative peaks on 
the meringue, use the back of 
a spoon: touch the surface of 
the unbaked meringue and 
pull upward. The meringue 
will stick to the back of the 
spoon and form peaks.
Gelling agents typically come as a powdered 
substance that is added to water or whatever other 
liquid you are working with. Upon mixing with 
the liquid, and typically after heating, the gelling 
agent rehydrates and as it cools it forms a three-
dimensional lattice that “traps” the rest of the liquid 
in suspension. By default, add your gelling agent 
to a cold liquid and heat that up. Adding gelling 
agents to hot liquid usually results in clumps 
because the powder will hydrate and then gel up 
before it has a chance to disperse.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 412Ann Barrett on Texture PHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF ANN BARRETT
Ann Barrett is a food engineer specializing 
in food textures. She works for the Combat 
Feeding Directorate of the US Army Natick 
Soldier Research, Development, and 
Engineering Center (NSRDEC).
What does a food engineer do?
It’s like applied chemical engineering 
but for food. The training focuses 
on how to process food and how 
to preserve food, looking at food as 
material. I happen to have a specialty in 
food texture or food rheology; rheology  
means how something flows or deforms. 
My PhD topic was on the fracturability 
of crunchy food. How do you measure 
crunchiness or fracturability, and how 
do you quantitatively describe the way 
a food fails? When you chew a food and 
it breaks apart, can you describe that 
quantitatively and then relate that to the 
physical structure of the food?
Tell me a little bit about the NSRDEC.
There are several RDECs (research, 
development, and engineering centers) 
throughout the country. NSRDEC is 
focused on everything the soldier needs 
for survival or sustenance, aside from weaponry: food, clothing, shelters, and 
parachutes. The food part is largely driven 
by the fact that the military is potentially 
deployed in every kind of physical 
environment, so we need a wide range 
of foods to support soldiers operating 
in a wide range of situations. They have 
large depots of rations, and that drives a 
very long shelf-life requirement. Most of 
the food that we make needs to be shelf-
stable for three years at 80°F / 26.7°C. That 
is not to say that the soldier will always 
eat something that’s three years old, but 
they definitely might. That drives a lot of 
the research here; foods that are shelf-
stable but also good, that the soldiers will 
want to eat.
It must be really interesting to work 
with the constraints that you’ve 
got while trying to preserve flavor 
and texture. How do you go about 
doing that?
Well, it’s often one part experience or 
knowledge combined with two parts 
trial and error. There’s a lot of bench-
top development here. Most of my 
experience has been in processing and 
engineering analysis of food, but I do 
have a project now where we’re trying 
to develop flavors for sandwich fillings. 
All flavors are chemicals, so you can 
replicate a natural flavor by knowing 
what the chemistry is.
For example, we’re working on a peanut 
butter filling for sandwiches. We’re trying 
to make a chocolate peanut butter 
flavor, a bit like Nutella. We have the 
peanut butter formula, and we’ve been 
looking at adding cocoa and at different 
chocolate flavors. We put three into 
storage to see how they would work, 
and two of them came out just okay, and one of them was delicious. When you’re 
developing something, you have to look 
at a number of different ingredients to 
see what works. There will be changes 
in both the flavor and texture of a food 
during long-term storage. Flavors tend 
to become less intense, or off-flavors 
might develop. Texture can degrade by 
moisture equilibrating, say in a sandwich, 
or by staling. There are a multitude of 
flavors that are commercially available, 
and also a multitude of ingredients 
that will adjust texture—for example, 
starches and gums for liquid or semisolid 
foods, enzymes and dough conditioners 
for breads. So during development you 
need to optimize a formula to make sure 
the food is good after you make it and 
also good after storage.
Even with all the hard science, you 
still have some degree of, well, “Let’s 
just try it and see what happens?”
Oh, absolutely. You make a product 
up for a project, sample it, store it, and 
then sample it again. Everything is 
actually tasted here, and as a matter 
of fact, part of our duties is to go over 
and participate in the sensory panels 
because the food scientists here, the 
nutritionists, the dieticians, are all 
considered expert tasters. The first 
thing we do is make our product on 
the bench and then put it into a box 
that’s 120°F / 49°C for four weeks. Those 
conditions approximate a longer period 
of time at a lower temperature; it’s just 
a quick test to see if quality holds up. 
If the product holds up, next is 100°F / 
38°C for six months; that’s supposed to 
approximate the quality you would get 
at three years at 80°F / 27°C. Then you 
have to check that it’s microbiologically Thickeners 413process. Heat and moisture will make 
the starch granules absorb water and 
swell and then bleed out individual 
starch polymers, which are like threads 
attached to the granules. The starch 
polymers then entangle, creating an 
interconnected structure that builds 
viscosity. That’s why your gravy gets 
thick.dough, which is a mechanical rather 
than a thermal process that makes the 
gluten molecules link up; that gluten 
network is what allows the bread to rise 
because a structure is developed that 
will hold gas liberated by yeast. And of 
course, every time you use cornstarch 
or flour to thicken a gravy or sauce, 
you’re employing a physico-chemical stable, so it goes to the microbiologist 
for clearance, and then you can ask 
people to come and evaluate it. We rate 
the appearance, aroma, flavor, texture, 
and the overall quality.
How does the science of food texture 
work into enjoyment of food?
There are expected textural properties 
of whatever food category you’re 
dealing with. Sauces are supposed to 
be creamy; meats are supposed to be at 
least somewhat fibrous; bread and cake 
are supposed to be soft and spongy; 
cereals and crackers are supposed to be 
crunchy. When texture deviates from 
what’s expected, the food quality is 
poor. If you are going to measure and 
to optimize the texture of a product, 
you need to pinpoint the exact sensory 
properties you want.
For example, for liquids, flowability or 
viscosity is the defining physical and 
measurable characteristic. There are 
“thin” liquids and “thick” liquids, and you 
can often change thin to thick by adding 
hydrocolloids or thermal treatment. Solid 
foods come in many different textural 
types. There are elastic solids that spring 
back after deformation (Jell-O); there are 
plastic solids that don’t (peanut butter). 
Then besides “solid” solids there are also 
porous solids—think bread, cake, puffed 
cereal, extruded snacks such as cheese 
puffs. Porous foods have the structure 
of sponges, and like a wet versus a dry 
sponge, they can be elastic or brittle.
Somebody cooking in the kitchen is 
actually manipulating these things 
both physically and chemically?
Yes, that’s exactly what cooking is. Take 
cooking an egg. The protein albumin 
will denature with heat, causing 
molecular crosslinking and solidification. 
Another example is kneading bread Quick Pan Gravy
Flour (Roux Method)
Create  a simple roux by melting 
2 tablespoons (30g) of butter  
in a saucepan and then adding 
2 tablespoons (16g) of flour.  
Stir the mixture while cooking 
over low heat until the roux sets 
and begins to turn light brown, 
about 2–3 minutes.
Add 1–1½ cups (240–360 
mL) broth or stock ; whisk to 
combine. Simmer the mixture 
over low heat for several 
minutes, until the gravy has 
reached your desired thickness. 
If the gravy remains too thin, 
add more flour. (To prevent 
clumping, create a slurry by mixing flour with cold water, and 
add that.) If the gravy becomes 
too thick, add more liquid.
Cornstarch
Create a cornstarch paste by 
mixing 2 tablespoons (16g) 
cornstarch  with ¼ cup (60 mL) 
cold water .
In a saucepan, heat up 1–1½ 
cups (240–360 mL) broth or 
stock . Add the cornstarch and 
simmer the mixture for 8–10 
minutes to cook the cornstarch. 
If the gravy remains too thin, 
add more cornstarch paste. If 
the gravy becomes too thick, 
add more liquid.
Notes
• You can use the drippings from roasted meats, such as turkey or 
chicken, to bring more flavor to the gravy. If using flour, substitute 
the fat in the drippings for the butter. If you’re searing a piece of 
meat, use the same pan for making the gravy, deglazing it with a 
few tablespoons of wine, vermouth, Madeira, or port to loosen up 
the fond that will have formed on the surface of the pan.
• Try sautéing some mushrooms and adding them into the gravy as 
well. Or, if you’re cooking a turkey, slow-cook the turkey neck a day 
in advance and pull off the meat and add it into the gravy as well.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 414Methylcellulose
Methylcellulose isn’t a typical starch-derived thickener, and it’s not used for traditional 
thickening purposes. It has the unusual property of getting thicker when heated—
thermo-gelling,  in chem-speak. Take jam: when heated, it loses its gel structure (the pectin 
melts), causing it to flow out of things like jam-filled pastries. Adding methylcellulose 
prevents this by absorbing the water in the jam when heated. And 
since methylcellulose is thermoreversible —it can go back and forth 
between states based on temperature; in this case between gelled 
and ungelled—upon cooling after baking, the jam returns to its 
normal consistency. Magic! 
Methylcellulose has been used in some novel culinary dishes for 
its thermo-gelling effects. One famous example is hot ice cream 
in which the ice cream is actually hot cream that’s been set with 
methylcellulose. As it cools to room temperature, it melts.Instructions for 
kitchen useDissolve methylcellulose into hot water (around 122°F / 50°C) and then whisk it while it’s cooling 
down. Mixing it directly in cold water can be difficult because the powder will clump up as it comes 
into contact with water. In hot water, though, the powder doesn’t absorb any liquid, allowing it to 
be uniformly mixed. It’s easiest to stir methylcellulose into your liquid, using between 1.0% and 2.0% 
of the weight of the total recipe, and let it rest overnight in the fridge to dissolve fully. You can then 
experiment with setting the liquid. Try baking a small dollop of it, or dropping it by the ice cream 
scoopful into a pan of simmering water.Industry 
usesMethylcellulose is used to prevent “bake-out” of fillings in baked goods. Methylcellulose also has high 
surface activity, meaning that it can act like an emulsifier by keeping oil and water from separating, so 
it is also used in low-oil and no-oil dressings and to lower oil absorption in fried foods.Origin and 
chemistryMethylcellulose is made by chemically modifying cellulose (if you’re a chemistry geek, via 
etherification of the hydroxyl groups). There can be great variation between types and derivatives 
of methylcellulose, in terms of thickness (viscosity), gelling temperature (122–194°F / 50–90°C), and 
strength of gel (ranging from firm to soft). If your methylcellulose isn’t setting correctly, check the 
specifications of the type you have; see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/methylcellulose/  for more.Hollywood movies use 
methylcellulose to make slime. 
Add a bit of yellow and green 
food dye, and you’ve got yourself 
Ghostbusters -style slime. To get good 
consistency, whisk it vigorously to 
trap air bubbles into the mixture.
Methylcellulose increases surface 
tension—well,  actually, “interfacial 
tension” because “surface” refers 
to a two-dimensional shape—
which is why it works as an 
emulsifier.
Water
molecule
Water
clustersHydroxyl
groups
Methoxyl
groupWhen cold (on left), water molecules 
are able to form water clusters 
around the methylcellulose molecule. 
With sufficient heat—around 122°F 
/ 50°C—the water clusters are 
destroyed and the methylcellulose is 
able to form crosslinks, resulting in a 
stable gel at higher temperatures.Thickeners 415
Hot Marshmallows
Unlike the marshmallows  covered earlier in this chapter (see page 383), these 
marshmallows firm up when heated but melt when they cool. This recipe is adapted from 
a recipe by  Linda Anctil ( http://www.playingwithfireandwater.com ); see page 121 for 
more about Linda.
In a saucepan, bring to a boil:
 2 1/8 cups (500 mL) water
 1 cup (200g) sugar
Let cool, and then whisk in:
 10 grams methylcellulose (use a scale to ensure an accurate measurement)
 1 teaspoon (5 mL) vanilla extract
Let the mixture rest in the fridge until thick, around 2 hours. Once it’s thick, whisk 
it for 2–3 minutes to create a super-frothy foam. Transfer to a 9” × 9” / 20 cm × 
20 cm baking pan lined with parchment paper. Bake it for 5–8 minutes at 325°F / 
160°C, until set. The marshmallows should feel dry to the touch and not at all sticky. 
Remove the pan from the oven, cut the marshmallows into your desired shapes, and 
coat them with powdered sugar.
Two marshmallows on a 
plate of powdered sugar.
Two marshmallows after 
being coated with powdered 
sugar while still hot.
Same marshmallows after 
cooling for a few minutes.
When working with gels, you can quickly cool the hot liquid 
by whisking it while running cold water over the outside of 
the pan. The water will adhere to the bottom of the pan.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 416Maltodextrin
Maltodextrin is a starch that easily dissolves in water with a mildly sweet taste. In 
manufacturing, it’s spray-dried and agglomerated, which creates a powder that’s very 
porous on the microscopic level. Because of this structure, maltodextrin is able to soak up 
fatty substances, making it useful for working with fats when designing food. It also absorbs 
water, so it’s used as an emulsifier and thickener, as well as a fat substitute: once hydrated, it 
literally sticks around, mimicking the viscosity and texture of fats.
Since maltodextrin is a powder and absorbs fats, using a lot of it creates a fun, unusual 
result: it’ll turn liquids and solids that are high in fat into powders. Mix enough of it into 
olive oil or peanut butter, and they become a colloid of sorts, although in powdered 
form. And because maltodextrin dissolves in water, the resulting powder dissolves in your 
mouth, effectively “melting” back into the original ingredient and releasing its flavor. Since 
maltodextrin itself is generally flavorless (only slightly sweet), it doesn’t substantially alter 
the flavor of the product that is being “powderized. ”
In addition to the novelty and surprise of, say, fish topped with a powder dusting that melts 
into olive oil in your mouth, powders can carry flavors over into applications that require 
the ingredients to be solid. Think of chocolate truffles rolled in chopped nuts: in addition 
to providing flavor and texture contrast, the chopped nuts provide a convenient “wrapper” 
that allows you to pick up the truffle without the chocolate ganache melting in your fingers. 
Powdered products can be used to coat the outsides of foods in much the same way.
Instructions for 
kitchen use Add maltodextrin powder slowly to your melted fat or oil for a ratio of about 60% fat, 40% 
maltodextrin by weight. You can pass the results through a sieve to change the texture 
from breadcrumb-like to a finer powder.
Industry uses Maltodextrin is used as a filler to thicken liquids (e.g., the liquid in canned fruits) and as a 
way to carry flavors in prepackaged foods such as chips and crackers. Since it traps fats, 
any fat-soluble substances can be “wicked up” with maltodextrin and then more easily 
incorporated into a product.
Origin and 
chemistryMaltodextrin is derived from starches such as corn, wheat, or tapioca. It’s made by cooking 
starches at moderate heat for many hours (usually with an acidic catalyst) and running the 
resulting hydrolyzed starches through a spray-dryer. Chemically, maltodextrin is a sweet 
polysaccharide typically composed of between 3 and 20 glucose units linked together.
To understand how maltodextrin soaks up oils, think of sand at the beach. The sand doesn’t 
actually bond with the water, but it’s still wicking up the liquid in the space between the 
granules due to capillary action. With both sand and maltodextrin, the right amount of 
liquid will clump up the solid. Because maltodextrin is water-soluble, water would dissolve 
the starch granules, so this only works with fats. And, luckily, maltodextrin can soak up a lot 
more oil per volume than sand can soak up water, making it useful for conveying flavors in 
a nonliquid form.Thickeners 417
Powdered Brown Butter
Browned butter tastes rich and 
nutty, and is great for adding 
flavor (see page 156). When melted 
and whisked with maltodextrin, it 
can be turned into a powder that 
“melts” back into browned butter in 
your mouth. Try using this browned 
butter powder as a garnish on top 
of or alongside fish, or making a version with peanut 
butter and sprinkling it on desserts.
In a skillet, melt:
 4 tablespoons (60g) salted butter, or 
unsalted butter with ¼ teaspoon (1g) salt
Once the butter is melted, continue to heat it 
until all the water has boiled off. The butter 
solids will start to brown. Once the butter has 
completely browned and achieved a nutty, toasted 
aroma, remove it from the heat and allow it to 
cool for a minute or two.
In a small mixing bowl, measure out:
 ½ cup (40g) maltodextrin
While whisking the maltodextrin, slowly dribble 
in the browned butter until the mixture reaches 
the consistency of wet sand.Notes
• Stir slowly at the beginning because 
maltodextrin is light and will easily aerosolize. 
The ratio between maltodextrin and the food 
will vary. If your result is more like toothpaste, 
add more maltodextrin.
• If the resulting powder is still too clumpy, try 
drying it carefully by transferring it to a frying 
pan and applying low heat for a few minutes. 
This will help eliminate any dampness present 
from room humidity. It will also partially 
cook the food item, which might not work for 
powders containing ingredients such as white 
chocolate.
• For a finer texture, try passing the powder 
through a sieve or strainer using the back of a 
spoon.
• Additional flavors to try: peanut butter, almond 
butter, coconut oil (virgin/unrefined), caramel, 
white chocolate, Nutella, olive oil, bacon fat 
(cook some bacon and save the fat drippings—
this is called rendering ). You don’t need to 
heat the fats first, but it might take a bit of 
working to get the maltodextrin to combine. For 
liquid fats (e.g., olive oil), you will need to use 
roughly 2 parts maltodextrin to 1 part fat: 50g 
olive oil, 100g maltodextrin.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 418Gelling Agents 
The next time you slather jelly onto a slice of bread, you can thank pectin for its ability 
to form gels—solid colloidal mixtures with a defined shape that trap liquids. Without 
gelling agents like pectin we’d have a much less interesting world, at least in the sweets 
aisle. Gelling agents thicken liquids, and at higher concentrations they create gels. In low 
concentrations they can also act as emulsifiers (thicker liquids don’t separate as easily) 
and can prevent sugar crystals from ruining candies or stop water crystals from turning ice 
cream gritty. 
There are two key concepts for gels: strength and concentration. Gram for gram, some 
gelling agents are able to form stronger gels than others. And, of course, there has to be 
enough of a gelling agent present for a gel to form.
Weak gelling  agents and low concentrations of stronger gelling agents act as thickeners. 
Without enough of the gelling agent present to create a proper structure, viscosity 
increases but liquids remain flowable or at least pliable. Jams are a great example of weak 
gels: they’re flowable and don’t have a proper shape. Some gelling agents are almost 
always used for weak gels. Carrageenan, for example, is commonly used for thickening. 
The hazelnut milk I drank this morning had a thick, tongue-coating feel; a quick peek at the 
ingredient label listed carrageenan. (Presumably the manufacturer thinks consumers want 
something with the same mouthfeel as regular milk.)
With enough of a strong gelling agent, liquids become true gels—solid colloids. Foods like 
jelly, Jell-O, and cooked egg whites are gels due to pectin, gelatin, or ovomucin proteins. 
Gels are formed by tightly interconnected lattices that prevent the food from flowing at all, 
so they form a solid that you can slice into shapes or unmold and use as a component in a 
dish. Gels have a memory of their cast shape, meaning that they will revert to that shape 
when not being pushed or poked at.
In industrial applications, gelling agents are typically used for their functional properties to 
thicken liquids or modify texture (“ improve mouthfeel, ” as they say—like my hazelnut milk). 
Carrageenan is extremely common; half the cream cheese and yogurt in my local store uses 
it. Agar is used in many sweet Asian desserts, and tapioca is used for balls in bubble tea.
In modern cuisine, gelling agents are used to create dishes in 
which foods that are normally liquid are turned into something 
that can be smeared or even made completely solid. Gels 
can also be formed on surfaces (well, technically, interfaces —
where two substances meet) in a technique sometimes called 
spherification . Let’s see how a handful of different gelling 
agents work to create everything from everyday jams to novel 
spherification.American-style jelly is made with the 
juice of fruit—no fruit pulp—and turned 
into a gel using sugar and pectin so that 
it holds its shape, making it spreadable. 
Jam includes mashed fruit, making it 
thick, and uses less pectin, thickening it 
but not setting it into a true gel. 
Gelling Agents 419Pectin  
Pectin is amazing stuff: in nature, it acts as glue, holding cells together in plant tissue. The 
pectin used in cooking acts as a thickener and comes from a family of polysaccharides that, 
depending on processing, are divided into two broad types: high- and low-ester pectins, 
sometimes called high-methoxyl (HM) and low-methoxyl (LM). The difference between the 
high and low types has to do with the esterification of the molecular structure—this is just 
a detail of the pectin molecules that can vary. The number of esters present in the pectin 
molecules is naturally high, but with processing it can be reduced, which changes the way 
pectin forms a gel. High-ester pectin requires sugar and acid in order to link together; low-
ester pectin can also create a gel using cations like potassium or calcium.
To complicate matters, the labels of high- and low-ester are based 
on an arbitrary cutoff point for the degree of esterification. All the 
requirements for gelling can be satisfied, but the time for the gel to 
actually set can vary from 20 seconds to 250 seconds. If you’re making 
jam and pull a sample to test gel level, you may have to wait 4 minutes 
or so to actually determine if you’ve created the right conditions, 
depending on the specifics of the high-ester pectin you’re using.
Commercially, pectin is extracted from cooked citrus rinds or apple pomace (what’s left 
after the juice is pressed out of the fruit) and cores. You can use the same method to make 
your own pectin; you’ll end up with high-ester pectin in liquid. (The process to convert it to 
low-ester pectin isn’t a home project.) The natural presence of pectin in some fruits is also 
why a jam recipe may not even call for pectin—it’s already in the ingredients!
High-ester pectin won’t form gels when there’s too much water around. Adding sugar reduces 
the amount of available water, plus sugar is needed for high-ester pectin to set. High-ester pectin 
also forms gels only in a pH range of around 2.5 to ~3.5, which is why some recipes add an acid 
like lemon juice to drop the pH range. Fruits that have more natural sugars will require less added 
sugar, and likewise more acidic fruits won’t require the addition of something like lemon juice.
Low-ester pectin is made by processing high-ester pectin with an acidified alcohol. This 
creates a pectin that sets in the much wider pH range of 2.5–6.0 and tolerates more water, 
although low-ester pectin does still gel better at the lower pH range (below 3.6). Low-
ester pectin is more forgiving than high-ester pectin: it can handle more free water 
and less acidic environments but still does better when treated like high-ester 
pectin. Low-ester pectin has the benefit of being able to create low-sugar or low-
acid foods, allowing for less sugary jams.
In general, if you can get low-ester pectin, use it—it’s just easier to work with, 
as you can see from the chemistry. Otherwise, be patient with high-ester pectin: 
use about 1% (by weight), plenty of sugar (60–75%), and enough acid (like lemon 
juice) to drop the pH.Making jam? Throw some spoons 
in the freezer before you start. 
When making the jam, drip the 
hot jam onto the cold spoon to 
let it cool for a few minutes to 
check if it forms a good gel.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 420
Pectin  is a family of polysaccharides found in the 
cell walls of land plants that provides structure to 
the plant tissue. Pectin breaks down into simple 
sugars over time, which is why riper fruits become 
softer and apples become mealy—without pectin’s 
structure holding them together, they fall apart. 
Heating fruit releases the pectin from the cell 
walls, which is why you can make pectin from 
high-pectin fruits by cooking them down. 
Making your own pectin is similar to making your 
own gelatin: start with a couple of pounds of 
tissue, boil away, and then strain the liquid out. 
Instead of animal bones, pectin comes from the 
“bones” of cell walls in plant tissue.
First, grab these supplies:
• 2 pounds (900g) of 
tart apples other 
than Granny Smiths 
(they’re low in 
pectin)
• Saucepan
• 4 cups (1 liter) of 
water
• Cutting board and 
knife• Burner or stovetop for 
heating the pot
• Strainer lined with 
cheesecloth
• Bowl or pan to 
collect drippings from 
strainer
• Rubbing alcohol 
(optional)
Here’s what to do:
1. Cut the apples into eighths, leaving the seeds 
and core in. (The core and skin actually have 
the most pectin in them.)
2. Place the apples into the saucepan with the 
water, bring them to a boil, and simmer for 
30–45 minutes. Turn off the heat and allow 
them to cool for a few minutes, until they’re 
safe to strain.3. Pour the cooked apple mixture through the 
lined strainer, letting it rest for 5–10 minutes to 
drain as much of the liquid through as possible. 
Discard the cooked apples and cheesecloth.
Investigation time!
Look at the drippings in the bowl or pan: what do 
they feel like?
How do you think the amount of pectin made would 
change if you used unripe apples? Or extremely soft, 
ripe apples? What do you think would happen if you 
used other fruits instead of apples?
Pectin is insoluble in alcohol. Try mixing a 
spoonful of your pectin liquid with a few 
spoonfuls of a rubbing alcohol. Does the pectin 
liquid gel up? (Don’t eat the rubbing alcohol!) It’s 
possible that your pectin liquid is too watery; in 
this case, simmer the liquid to reduce it down.
Extra credit:
Try making your own jam (see page 419) with your 
homemade pectin. Homemade pectin will be high-
ester pectin, so you’ll need to reduce the amount 
of water present by either condensing the liquid or 
adding enough sugar to absorb it. You’ll also need 
to add lemon juice to get the pH levels low enough, 
and finally, you’ll need enough pectin to actually 
make the jam!
Low pectinMedium 
pectin High pectin
Softer fruits, in 
general
Cherries
Blackberries
NectarinesApricots
Strawberries
PeachesBlack currants
Citrus rinds
Cranberries (this 
is why cranberry 
sauce gels up 
when cooled!)
Tart applesLab: Make Your Own PectinGelling Agents 421Carrageenan 
Carrageenan is another common gelling agent, used in food as far back as the 15th century. 
Commercial mass production of carrageenan gums became feasible after World War II, 
and now it shows up in everything from cream cheese to dog food, acting as a flavorless 
thickener.
Instructions 
for kitchen 
useMix 0.5% to 1.5% carrageenan into room-temperature liquid. Gently stir the liquid to avoid trapping air 
bubbles in the gel; lumps are okay at this stage. (They’re hard to get out unless you have a vacuum system.) 
Allow the mixture to rest for an hour or so; carrageenan takes a while to rehydrate. To set the carrageenan, 
bring it to a simmer either on a stovetop or in an oven. If you are working with a liquid that can’t be heated, 
create a thicker concentration using just water, heat that, and then mix it into your dish.
Industry 
usesCarrageenan is used to thicken foods and to control crystal growth (e.g., in ice cream, keeping ice crystals 
small prevents a gritty texture). Carrageenan is commonly used in dairy (check the ingredients on your 
container of heavy whipping cream!) and water-based products, such as fast-food shakes (it keeps ingre -
dients in suspension and enhances mouthfeel) and ice creams (it prevents aggregation of ice crystals and 
syneresis , the expulsion of liquid from a gel).
Origin and 
chemistry Derived from seaweed (such as Chondrus crispus , a.k.a. Irish moss), carrageenan refers to a family of mole -
cules that all share a common shape (a linear polymer that alternates between two types of sugars). The sea -
weed is sun-dried, treated with lye, washed, and refined into a powder. Variations in the molecular structure 
of carrageenan cause different levels of gelification, so you can achieve different effects by using different 
types of carrageenan (which, helpfully, grow in different varieties of red seaweed). Kappa carrageenan (k-car -
rageenan) forms a stronger, brittle gel, and iota carrageenan (i-carrageenan) forms a softer brittle gel. 
Technical notes 
i-carrageenan k-carrageenan
Gelling 
temperature95–149°F / 35–65°C 95–149°F / 35–65°C
Melting 
temperature131–185°F / 55–85°C 131–185°F / 55–85°C
Gel type Soft gel: gels in the 
presence of calcium 
ionsFirm gel: gels in the pres -
ence of potassium ions
Syneresis No Yes
Working 
concentrations0.3–2% 0.3–2%
Notes • Poor solubility in 
sugary solutions
• Interacts well with 
starches• Insoluble in salty 
solutions
• Interacts well with 
nongelling polysac -
charides (e.g., gums 
like locust bean gum)
Thermoreversible Yes YesOn the molecular level, carrageenan, when 
heated, untangles and loses its helical structure 
(left); when cooled, it reforms helices that wrap 
around each other and form small clusters (right). 
The small clusters can then form a giant three-
dimensional net that traps other molecules.
Iota carrageenan (left, 2% concentration  set in 
water) creates a soft, elastic gel that sags, while 
kappa carrageenan (right, 2% concentration 
set in water) creates a firm, nonelastic gel that’s 
much more brittle. Both of these are true colloidal 
gels: solid structures with liquids trapped inside.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 422
Gelled Milk with Iota and Kappa Carrageenan
This isn’t, in and of itself, a tasty recipe (add some chocolate, though, and you’ve got the 
beginnings of commercial chocolate pudding). Still, it will give you a good sense of what 
adding a gelling agent does to a liquid and provides a good comparison between flexible 
and brittle gels.
Flexible brittle version
In a saucepan, whisk to combine and then bring to a boil:
 1 teaspoon (1.5g) iota carrageenan
 3.5 ounces (100 mL) milk
Pour the mixture into a glass, ice cube tray, or mold and chill it in the fridge until 
set (about 10 minutes).
Firm brittle version
Again in a saucepan, whisk to combine and then bring to a boil:
 1 teaspoon (1.5g) kappa carrageenan
 3.5 ounces (100 mL) milk
Pour the mixture into a second glass, ice cube tray, or mold and chill it in the fridge 
until set.
Notes
• Try modifying the recipe by adding 1 teaspoon (4g) of sugar and substituting 
half-and-half for the milk. Microwave the mixture for a minute to  set it and then 
pour the hot liquid into a ramekin that has a thin layer of jam or jelly and toasted 
sliced almonds in the bottom. Once it’s gelled, invert the set gel onto a plate for 
something roughly approximating a flan-style custard.
• Since the carrageenan is thermoreversible (once gelled, it can still be melted), you 
can take a block of food gelled with 
kappa carrageenan, slice it into 
cubes, and do silly things like 
serve it with coffee or tea (one 
lump or two?).
• You can take a firm brittle gel 
and break up the structure 
using a whisk to create dishes 
like thick chocolate pudding.
Gelling Agents 423Agar
Like carrageenan, agar—sometimes called agar-
agar —has a long history in food, but it has only 
recently become known in Western cuisine because 
of its use as a vegetarian substitute for gelatin. First 
used by the Japanese in the firm, jelly-type desserts 
that they’re known for, such as mizuyokan , agar’s use 
stretches back many centuries.
When it comes to food additives, agar is one of the 
simplest to work with. You can add it to just about 
any liquid to create a firm gel—a 2% concentration 
in, say, a cup of Earl Grey tea will make it firmer than 
Jell-O—and it sets quickly at room temperature. It 
comes in two general varieties: flakes or powder. The 
powdered form is easier to work with (just add it to 
liquid and heat). When working with the flake variety, 
presoak it for at least five minutes and make sure to 
cook it long enough so that it breaks down fully.
Instructions for 
kitchen use Dissolve 0.5% to 2% agar by weight in cold liq -
uid and whisk to combine. Bring liquid to a boil. 
As with carrageenan, you can create a thicker 
concentrate and add that to a target liquid if the 
target liquid can’t be boiled. Compared to carra -
geenan, agar has a broader range of substances 
in which it will work, but it requires a higher tem -
perature to set.Industry usesAgar is used in lieu of gelatin in products such as 
jellies, candies, cheeses, and glazes. Since agar is 
vegetarian, it’s a good substitute in dishes that 
traditionally call for gelatin, which is derived from 
animal skins and bones. Agar has a slight taste, 
though, so it works best with strongly flavored 
dishes.Origin and 
chemistry Like carrageenan, agar is a seaweed-derived poly -
saccharide used to thicken foods and create gels. 
When heated above 185°F / 85°C, the galactose 
in agar melts, and upon cooling below 90–104°F 
/ 32–40°C it forms a double-helix structure. (The 
exact gelling temperature depends on the concen -
tration of agar.)During gelling, the endpoints of the double 
helices are able to bond to each other. Agar has a 
large hysteresis; that is, the temperature at which 
it converts back to a gel is much lower than the 
temperature at which that gel melts back to a liquid, 
which means that you can warm the set gel up to a 
moderately warm temperature and have it remain 
solid. For more information on the chemistry of agar, 
see http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/agar/ .
Technical notes
Gelling temperature 90–104°F / 32–40°C
Melting temperature 185°F / 85°C
Hysteresis 140°F / 60°C
Gel type Brittle
Syneresis Yes
Concentrations 0.5–2%
Synergisms Works well with sucrose
Notes Tannic acid inhibits gel 
formation (tannic acid is what 
causes overbrewed tea to 
taste bad; berries also contain 
tannins)
Thermoreversible Yes
When heated, the agar molecule relaxes 
into a relatively straight molecule 
(first image) that upon cooling forms 
a double helix with another agar 
molecule (second image). The ends of 
these double helices can bond with 
other agar double helices (third image), 
forming a 3D mesh (fourth image).
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 424Chocolate Panna Cotta
Panna cotta —Italian  for “cooked cream”—traditionally gets its 
structure from gelatin, but a small amount of agar can create a more 
stable version, and one that happens to be vegetarian. This is a good 
example of how agar can be used to provide a firmer texture than 
traditional ingredients, useful for applications that require additional 
strength. 
In a saucepan, whisk together and gently simmer (below boiling—
just until small bubbles form on the surface) for 1 minute:
 3.5 ounces (100 mL) milk
 3.5 ounces (100 mL) heavy cream
 ½ vanilla bean pod, sliced lengthwise and scraped
 8 teaspoons (20g) powdered sugar
 1 teaspoon (2g) agar powder
Turn off heat, remove the vanilla bean pod, and add, briefly stir, 
and let rest:
 3.5 ounces (100g) bittersweet chocolate, chopped into fine 
pieces to assist in rapid melting
After a minute, add and whisk to thoroughly combine:
 2 egg yolks (23g; reserve whites for some other recipe)
Pour the mixture into glasses, a bowl, or molds and store it in the 
fridge. The gel will set in as little as 15 minutes, depending upon 
the size of the mold and how long it takes the mousse to drop 
below agar’s gelling point (around 90°F / 32°C).
Note
• Try using this recipe as a component 
for other desserts. Roll a ball in 
toasted nuts to create a 
truffle-like confection, 
or spread a layer 
of it before it sets 
into a prebaked 
pie crust and 
then top it with 
raspberries and 
whipped cream.
Gelling Agents 425
Clarified Lime Juice
We talked about using gels to clarify liquids in the previous chapter (see page 349), but 
what if the liquid you’re using doesn’t naturally gel? Adding agar to a liquid will set it up 
into something that allows for gel clarification. This example, for clear lime juice, comes 
from Dave Arnold (see page 358).
Squeeze the juice from 10 limes into a container, running it through a sieve to 
remove the pulp. Measure the juice; it should be around 2 cups (480 mL). Set it aside.
In a pan, create an agar gel using water and agar by mixing ½ cup water (120 mL) 
with 7 teaspoons (14g) agar, heating the liquid to a boil to melt the agar. (This will 
create an agar gel at about 10% agar; when mixed with the lime juice it’ll result in a 
roughly 2.0% concentration.)
Once the agar has melted, remove the pan from the heat and pour the water–agar 
mixture into the container with the lime juice. Let it rest for a half hour or so, until 
set.
Once the lime gel has set, use a whisk to break 
it into pieces. Make zigzag slashing cuts with 
the whisk; don’t actually whisk the gel.
Transfer the broken gel to a cheesecloth 
(real cheesecloth, not the loose mesh stuff ) 
or towel. Fold the cloth up into a ball.
Hold the balled cloth above a coffee filter and 
squeeze it with your other hand, massaging 
it to force out as much liquid as possible. (The 
coffee filter will catch any small chunks of 
agar that happen to leak through.) Remove 
the filter and use the juice as desired.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 426Sodium Alginate
The gels covered so far are all homogenous , in the sense that they are incorporated into the 
entire liquid and then heated. Sodium alginate, however, sets via a chemical reaction with 
calcium, not heat, which allows for an interesting application: setting just part of the liquid 
by exposing it to calcium. One example of this technique is fake cherries, invented in 1942 
by William Peshardt (for the curious, see US Patent #2,403,547). Chef Ferran Adrià refined 
the concept in 2003, and it became something of a trend. It’s a clever yet simple idea: by 
controlling what regions are exposed to the gelling agents, you can gel selective regions.
You set sodium alginate by adding it to one liquid, adding calcium 
to a second liquid, and then exposing the two liquids to each other. 
The sodium alginate dissolves in water, freeing up the alginate, 
which sets in the presence of calcium ions where the two liquids 
touch. Imagine a large drop of sodium alginate–filled liquid: 
the outside of the drop sets once it has a chance to gel with the 
assistance of the calcium ions, while the center of the drop remains 
liquid. It’s from this application that the spherification  technique 
mentioned earlier is derived.Instructions for kitchen useAdd 1.0–1.5% sodium alginate into your liquid (use water for your first attempt). Let the liquid rest for 2 hours or so to 
hydrate fully. It will be lumpy at first; don’t stir or agitate the liquid, as doing so will trap air bubbles in the mixture.
It’s probably easiest to add the sodium alginate a day in advance and let it hydrate in the fridge overnight.
In a separate water bath, dissolve calcium chloride to create a 0.67% solution (about 1g calcium chloride to 150g water).
Carefully drip or spoon some of your sodium alginate liquid into the calcium bath and let it rest for 30 seconds or 
so. (You can use a large “syringe” dripper or turkey baster to create uniformly sized drops.) If your shape floats, use 
a fork or spoon to flip it over, so that all sides of it are exposed to the calcium bath. Remove the drop from the bath, 
dip it into another bowl of just water to rinse off any remaining calcium, and play. Sodium alginate gels firm up 
over the span of a few hours, so you’ll need to make these near when you intend to serve them.
If your sodium alginate sets without exposure to the calcium bath, use filtered or distilled water. Hard water is high 
in calcium, which can trigger the gelling reaction.Industry 
usesSodium alginate is used as a thickener and emulsifier. Since it readily absorbs water, it easily thickens fillings and 
drinks and is used to stabilize ice creams. It’s also used in manufacturing assembled foods; for example, some 
pimento-stuffed olives are actually stuffed with a pimento paste that contains sodium alginate. The olives are pit -
ted, injected with the paste, and then placed in a bath with calcium ions to gel the paste.Origin and 
chemistrySodium alginate is derived from the cell walls of brown algae, which are made of cellulose and algin. Alginates are 
block copolymers —repeating units of the same compounds, in this case mannopyranosyluronic and gulopyrano -
syluronic acids. Based on the sequence of the two acids, different regions of an alginate molecule can take on one 
of three shapes: ribbon-line, buckled shape, and irregular coils. Of the three shapes, the buckled shape regions can 
bind together via any divalent cation. (Recall that a cation— meow! —is just an ion that’s positively charged—that is, 
missing electrons. Divalent  simply means having a valence of two, so a divalent cation  is any ion or molecule that is 
missing two electrons.)Alginate does not normally bind together 
(left), but with the assistance of calcium 
ions is able to form a 3D mesh (right).Gelling Agents 427Gel “Noodles” and Dots
This is a quick example to 
illustrate how to work with 
sodium alginate. Start with 
water; once you’ve got that 
working, try it with other 
liquids. Create a 1% 
solution of sodium alginate  
and water . Add food coloring so that you can see 
the mixture as you work with it. Using a squeeze 
bottle, pipe out a strand into a bowl containing a 
0.67% solution of calcium chloride  in water .
Try making drops and other shapes as well. One 
food trend that’s been making the rounds is mini 
“caviar.” The small drops of set sodium alginate 
liquids have a similar texture and feel to caviar, 
but with the flavor of whatever liquid you use.
Once you’ve played with this using water, try using 
other liquids. Jolt Cola? Cherry juice? Keep in mind 
that liquids that are high in calcium or very acidic 
will cause the alginate solution to gel up on its 
own. Straight-up lime juice won’t work, because the 
alginate will precipitate out in the presence of concentrated acids. If you’re willing to experiment 
further, try using sodium citrate to adjust the pH. 
Depending upon the amount of calcium in the 
liquid, adding the sodium alginate straight to it 
can cause the liquid to set, giving you something 
similar to a brittle gel. Swapping the chemicals—
adding the calcium chloride to the food and setting 
it in a sodium alginate bath—doesn’t work; calcium 
chloride is nasty-tasting. Luckily, it’s the calcium 
that’s needed for the gelling reaction, not the 
offensive-tasting chloride, so any compound that’s 
food-safe and able to donate calcium ions will 
work; calcium lactate happens to fit the bill. This 
technique is sometimes called reverse spherification . 
For example, to create mozzarella spheres, mix 2 
parts mozzarella cheese with 
1 part heavy cream under 
low heat. Add around 1.0% of 
calcium lactate to this liquid 
and then set it in a water/
sodium alginate solution of 
0.5% to 0.67% concentration.
Spherification in Shapes
Spherification, a clever name for the process of 
creating spheres of liquid held together by a thin 
layer of gel on the surface, is one of the whimsical 
inventions of modern cuisine. Similar to the gel 
“dots” just described, with spherification you 
create larger “dots,” letting them set long enough 
that you can carefully remove them using a 
slotted spoon. Spheres of olive juice can be quite 
delightful—they look the same as traditional 
olives, but when bit into, explode with a flavor 
that can be described as “more olive than olive.”You can set liquids into shapes other than spheres 
by freezing them in a 
mold and then thawing 
them in a calcium bath. 
The final shape won’t 
retain the crisp edges 
of the original frozen 
shape—it’ll swell and 
bloat out slightly—
but you’ll still get a 
distinctive shape.
Freezing the liquid in a 
mold before setting the 
sodium alginate will create 
more interesting shapes.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 428Martin Lersch’s Hydrocolloid Recipes 
Martin Lersch is a chemist who writes 
about food at http://khymos.org  and is 
the editor of Texture: A Hydrocolloid 
Recipe Collection  (http://blog.khymos.
org/recipe-collection/ ).
How did you get interested in 
chemistry in cooking?
My whole food interest is in no way 
related to my studies or my work, 
apart from chemistry. I’ve always liked 
cooking. Every chemist should actually 
be a decent cook, because chemists, 
at least organic chemists, are very used 
to following recipes. It’s what they do 
every day at the lab. I often tease my 
colleagues, especially if they claim that 
they can’t bring a cake to the office 
for a meeting; I say, “Well, as a chemist, 
you should be able to follow a recipe!” 
I’ve always had, in a way, curiosity. I 
bring that curiosity back home into the 
kitchen and wonder, “Why does the 
recipe tell me to do this or that?” That’s 
really the case.How has your science background 
impacted the way that you think 
about cooking?
I think about cooking from a chemical 
perspective. What you do in cooking is 
actually a lot of chemical and physical 
changes. Perhaps the most important 
thing is temperature, because many 
changes in the kitchen are due to 
temperature variations. Searing meat 
and sous vide are also good places to 
start. With sous vide, people gradually 
arrive at the whole concept themselves. 
If you ask them how they would prepare 
a good steak, many people would say 
you should take it out of the refrigerator 
ahead of time, so you temper the meat. 
While you temper it, why not just put 
it in the sink? You could use lukewarm 
water. Then if you take that further, why 
not actually temper the meat at the 
desired core temperature? Most people 
will say that’s a good idea, then I say 
that’s sous vide. It becomes obvious for 
people that that’s actually a good idea.
I’m very fascinated by the hydrocolloids. 
One of the reasons I spent so much 
time putting the recipes together was 
that when I bought hydrocolloids, 
maybe one or two recipes would be 
included, but I found them not to be 
very illustrative. Everyone is familiar 
with gelatin, less so with pectin, but all 
the rest are largely unfamiliar. People 
don’t know how they work, how you 
should disperse them and hydrate 
them, or their properties. The idea was 
to collect recipes that illustrate as many 
of the ways to use them as possible. 
You can read a couple of the recipes 
and then can go into the kitchen and 
do your own stuff. That’s what I hope it 
will enable people to do.Is there a particular recipe from 
which you’ve learned the most or 
found interesting or unexpected in 
some way?
It’s hard to think of one recipe. When 
talking about molecular gastronomy, 
it’s easy to focus too much on the 
fancy applications like using liquid 
nitrogen or hydrocolloids. It’s important 
to emphasize that this is not what 
molecular gastronomy is about, 
although many people think that; many 
people associate molecular gastronomy 
with foams and alginate.
TEXTURE
A hydrocolloid recipe collection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Edited by Martin Lersch 
For a great collection of several hundred 
recipes based on gelling agents, check 
out Texture: A Hydrocolloid Recipe 
Collection , available online for free on 
Martin’s blog at http://blog.khymos.org/
recipe-collection/  (mirrored at http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/hydrocolloid/ ).PHOTO USED BY PERMISSION OF MARTIN LERSCHEmulsifiers 429Emulsifiers
Emulsifiers prevent two liquids from separating, creating liquid–liquid colloids. In cooking, 
emulsions are almost always water–fat combinations, sometimes fat in water (like salad 
dressing) or water in fat (like mayonnaise). You might wonder why liquids like oil and water 
are able to “mix” in the presence of an emulsifying agent, after the earlier discussion about 
polar (e.g., water) versus nonpolar (e.g., oil) molecules not being able to mix. An emulsifier 
has a hydrophilic/lipophilic structure: part of the molecule is polar and thus “likes” water, 
and part of the molecule is nonpolar and orients itself toward oil.
Adding an emulsifier keeps foods from separating by providing a barrier between droplets 
of oil. Think of it like a skin around the oil droplets that prevents different droplets from 
touching and coalescing. Emulsifiers reduce the chance that oil droplets will aggregate by 
increasing what chemists call interfacial tension . The oil and water don’t actually mix; they’re 
just held apart at the microscopic level.
Emulsifiers stabilize  foams by increasing their kinetic stability; that is, the amount of energy 
needed to get the foam to transition from one state to another is higher. Take bubble bath 
as an example: the soap acts as an emulsifier, creating a foam of air and water. Water doesn’t 
normally hold on to air bubbles, but with the soap (the emulsifier), the interfacial tension 
between the air and water goes way, way up, so it takes more energy to disrupt the system. 
The more energy it takes, the more kinetically stable the foam is, and the longer it’ll last.
Oil
Water
WaterLecithinOil
Emulsifiers like lecithin are molecules with both polar and nonpolar regions. Those 
regions can orient themselves at the interface between two different liquids.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 430Lecithin
In cooking, lecithin is almost always the emulsifier of choice because it’s easy to use and 
works in a broad range of foods. Without lecithin, we wouldn’t be able to make mayonnaise; 
it’s the lecithin in the egg yolks that provides most of the emulsification. Mustard seeds and 
finely ground spices like paprika can also emulsify foods, at least for a short while—they’ll 
slow down how quickly the liquids coalesce. This is why mayonnaise recipes often call for 
mustard. If you ever see a vinaigrette recipe call for mustard, don’t skip it! 
Lecithin can create foams for the same reason that it emulsifies. If you’ve ever been served a 
dish that has a “foam” liquid component—I’ve had both cod topped with a carrot foam and 
uni (sea urchin) topped with a green apple foam—the chef probably created it by adding 
lecithin to the liquid and then whipping or puréeing it. It’s a fun way to introduce a flavor to 
a dish without adding much body.
Instructions for 
kitchen useFor emulsions, add about 0.5–1% lecithin powder (by weight) and whisk. To 
create foams, add about 1–2% lecithin powder to your liquid (by weight) and 
use an immersion blender or whisk to froth the liquid. If you have a cream 
whipper (see page 313), lecithin can be used to make stable foams from liquids 
that wouldn’t normally hold bubbles after being sprayed.Industry uses Lecithin is used to create stable emulsions. It’s also used as an antispattering 
agent in margarines, in chocolate to reduce the viscosity of the melted choco -
late during manufacturing, and as an active ingredient in nonstick food sprays.Origin and chemistry Lecithin is typically derived from soya beans as a byproduct of creating soy-
based vegetable oil. Manufacturers extract lecithin from hulled, cooked 
soya beans by crushing the beans and then mechanically separating out (via 
extraction, filtration, and washing) crude lecithin. The crude lecithin is then 
either enzymatically modified or extracted with solvents (e.g., de-oiling with 
acetone or fractionating via alcohol—I know, sounds yummy). Lecithin can 
also be derived from animal sources, such as eggs and animal proteins, but 
animal-derived lecithin is much more expensive than plant-derived lecithin, 
so it is less common.
A photo of a half-water, half-
oil solution under a light 
microscope. (The slide is 
pressing the oil droplets flat.)
The same mixture with 1% 
lecithin added. The droplets 
are stable and do not coalesce 
into larger drops because of 
the increased kinetic stability.Emulsifiers 431
Fruit Juice Foam
Foams are a  fun, interesting component to a dish. 
We use whipped cream on top of many desserts, 
but what if we could come up with a foamed 
topping for savory applications? Try this with 
any strongly flavored liquid, such as coffee, or 
a brightly colored liquid like beet juice. Lecithin 
foams best at around a 1–2% concentration (2g 
lecithin per 100 mL of liquid).
In a large mixing bowl or other similarly large 
and flat container, measure out:
 ½ cup (120 mL) water
 ½ cup (120 mL) juice, such as carrot, lime, 
or cranberry
 1 teaspoon (3g) lecithin (powder)
If you have an immersion blender, blend the 
ingredients together for a minute or so, angling 
the blade so that it’s whisking air in. If you 
don’t have an immersion blender, use either 
a hand mixer or a whisk, being a little more 
patient.
Allow the mixture to rest for a minute after 
blending, so that the resulting foam that you 
spoon off is more stable.
Foamed carrot juice made with lecithin is 
surprisingly stable for long periods of time.Mayonnaise
You needn’t buy lecithin powder to experience 
the magic of lecithin. Egg yolks are used to make 
mayonnaise because of their high lecithin content. 
Use a fresh egg for this; lecithin in egg yolks 
breaks down over time. (Lots of things in eggs 
break down over time! See page 187 for more on 
eggs.) If you want to avoid the raw egg, see the 
note about vegan mayonnaise. Homemade mayo is 
especially worth it when used as a dipping sauce 
or directly on top of salmon.
In a large mixing bowl, separate out 1 large 
(20g) egg yolk , saving the white for something 
else. Add 4 teaspoons (20 mL) lemon juice  
or light-colored vinegar  (white wine vinegar 
or Champagne vinegar) or a mix of the two, 1 
teaspoon (6g) mustard , and ½ teaspoon (3g) 
salt and whisk the ingredients together to 
combine.
Slowly drizzle in 1 cup (240 mL) oil  (such as 
olive oil) while whisking. (For more flavor, try 
using an infused oil; see page 401.) If you add 
the oil too quickly or don’t whisk enough, the 
emulsion will separate back out; this is called 
breaking . If that happens and you can’t whisk it 
back together, add an egg yolk to a clean bowl 
and slowly whisk in the broken sauce.
Add salt and pepper to taste. Store the mayo in 
the fridge and use it within a week or so.
Note
• If you have lecithin powder that’s derived 
from soya, try making a vegan mayonnaise. 
Replace the egg yolk with 2 teaspoons (10 
mL) water, 1 teaspoon (5 mL) oil, and ½ 
teaspoon (1.5g) lecithin powder.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 432Enzymes 
Ever pondered where the word enzyme  comes from? It’s based on two words, en and zyme . 
En is easy (“in”), but zyme ? You’d have to either be a language buff or a Greek speaker 
to recognize zyme  as “yeast. ” Even though enzyme ’s origins are Greek, it was a German 
doctor who proposed the term in the 1870s while isolating the protein trypsin. He chose 
it to describe compounds that assisted in fermentation, using the Greek for “in yeast, ” not 
knowing that enzymes appear in almost all living things.
Enzymes are used all over the place in biological systems, working as catalysts that change 
other compounds. From a chemistry perspective, enzymes can do one of two things. They 
either provide an alternative reaction pathway —taking a different, easier route to get to 
the same outcome—or they trigger an entirely different reaction. Enzymes are amazingly 
selective. They’ll fit very, very few molecular structures, allowing for a biological precision 
envied by drug makers. (Some drug compounds, like protease inhibitors, are based on 
inhibiting enzymes!)
While many enzymes are naturally present in food, we sometimes add foreign enzymes to 
change flavors and textures when cooking. Cheese was traditionally made by exposing milk 
to parts of a ruminant animal’s stomach, which has a group of enzymes,  called rennet , that 
normally aid in digestion but also cause coagulation (leading to cheese formation). A simpler 
example is the breakdown of sucrose. Imagine a sucrose molecule, which is one glucose 
molecule and one fructose molecule, bound together by a common oxygen atom. When 
heated in the presence of water, the molecule vibrates with more and more kinetic energy, 
and eventually a water molecule manages to slip in where that oxygen atom is linking them, 
breaking the sucrose molecule into one glucose and one fructose molecule. (The water takes 
the place of the oxygen atom in one of them, making this a hydrolysis reaction.)
There’s an enzyme, invertase (enzyme names often end in “ase”), that provides an 
alternative pathway for this reaction. Invertase wraps around part of the sucrose molecule, 
gripping it in such a way that a water molecule can more easily slip into where the oxygen 
atom is holding the two simple sugars together. Once that water molecule slips in, the 
sucrose breaks down; the invertase 
enzyme can no longer hold on to 
the two parts and drifts away. Less 
energy is required for the reaction, 
and it’s very selective—other 
compounds in the system won’t 
have to be exposed to as much heat 
to cause the reaction. Enzymes are 
powerful!Sucrose and WaterSucrose and Water
Fructose and GlucoseWithout invertase enzyme, more
energy is required for the reaction.
Reaction ProgressEnergy
Reaction ProgressEnergyReaction
without 
enzyme
Reaction
with enzymeEnzymes 433
Mozzarella Cheese
Making your own  cheese is a great experiment to see 
how closely related two seemingly different things can 
be. Cheese is made from curds—coagulated casein 
proteins—in milk. The whey is separated out via an 
enzymatic reaction, allowing the curds to be cooked 
and then kneaded, stretched, and folded to create 
that characteristic structure found in string cheese.
In two small bowls or glasses, measure out and set 
aside:
 ½ teaspoon (1.4g) calcium chloride dissolved 
in 2 tablespoons (30 mL) distilled water
 ¼ tablet rennet, dissolved in 4 tablespoons 
(60 mL) distilled water (adjust quantity 
per your rennet manufacturer’s directions)
In a stock pot, mix and slowly heat to 88°F / 31°C:
 1 gallon (4 liters) nonhomogenized 
whole milk, not ultra-pasteurized or 
homogenized
 1½ teaspoon (12.3g) citric acid
 ¼ teaspoon (0.7g) lipase powder
Once the liquid is at 88°F / 31°C, add the calcium 
chloride and rennet mixtures and continue to 
slowly  heat to 105°F / 40.5°C, stirring every few 
minutes. At this point, you should begin to see 
curds separating from whey.
Once the liquid is at 105°F / 40.5°C, remove it 
from the heat, cover the pot, and wait 20 minutes. 
At this point, the curds should be fully separated 
from the whey; if not, wait a while longer.
Transfer the curds 
to a microwave-safe 
bowl using a slotted 
spoon, or strain 
out the whey and 
transfer it from your 
strainer. Squeeze as much of the whey out of the curds as possible, 
tipping the bowl to drain the liquid. Microwave 
the curds on high for 1 minute. Squeeze more of 
the whey out. The cheese should now be sticky; 
if not, continue to microwave it in 15-second 
increments until it is warm and sticky (but not 
too hot to handle).
Add ½ teaspoon (3g) flaked salt  to the cheese and 
knead it. Microwave it for 1 more minute on high 
until the cheese is around 130°F / 54.4°C. Remove 
and stretch it, working it just like Silly Putty: 
stretch, fold in half, twist, and stretch again, over 
and over, until you’ve achieved a stringy texture.
What’s homogenized milk?
In the homogenization process, milk is forced 
through a very tight nozzle that shears the fat 
globules into pieces. Those pieces become small 
enough that they don’t separate out due to drag 
force. (This is the same Stokes’ Law mentioned on 
page 317.)
Homogenized milk and ultra-pasteurized milk 
won’t make good cheese because both the 
homogenization process and the higher-heat ultra-
pasteurization process disrupt the protein structures 
such that they can no longer bind together. You’ll 
end up with a squeaky mess that vaguely resembles 
cottage cheese but doesn’t melt together. Use 
pasteurized, but not homogenized, milk when 
following this recipe. Alternatively, you may be able 
to fake it by mixing 9 parts nonfat milk with 1 part 
heavy cream, depending on how heavy cream is 
processed where you live.
For instructions on making mozzarella the more 
traditional and much more involved way, see http://
cookingforgeeks.com/book/mozzarella/ .
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 434Benjamin Wolfe on Molds and Cheese
Benjamin Wolfe is an assistant professor 
of microbiology in the Department of 
Biology at Tufts University . His lab  uses 
food microbial communities to address 
fundamental questions in microbial 
ecology and evolution.
How did you get into studying 
mold?
I did my PhD on fungal diversity, 
ecology, and evolution at Harvard and 
I was studying mushroom farming 
fungi. If you’ve ever played Mario 
Brothers, you’ve probably seen that 
red mushroom with the white dots on 
the top of it. That’s a real thing called 
Amanita . I became fascinated with 
fungi and for my postdoc, I had the 
amazing opportunity to work with the 
microbial diversity of cheese. I now 
have my own lab at Tufts University, 
where we’re doing a lot more work with 
food molds in particular.Most of us aren’t familiar with 
mold other than, “Oh, that peach 
has gone moldy, let me throw it 
away. ” Can you describe molds to a 
layperson?
Fungi live by decomposing stuff. They 
break down the environment that they 
live in and use that decomposed stuff 
as a way to make energy to grow. A log 
rotting in a forest or the bread sitting 
on your counter rots via mold. The 
mold produces enzymes that break 
down things in the environment to take 
in glucose and other sugars that they 
get from decomposition. All fungi have 
a compound called chitin  that they use 
to build their cells, and all fungi have 
a network of cells called a mycelium . 
When you’re looking at a piece of bread 
that is moldy, that big fluffy cloud 
that’s spreading across the bread is a 
whole bunch of fungal cells all united 
together. 
Which came first, the log or the 
mold? 
One group of molds and fungi that 
people never really see are living in 
the soil, breaking down things in the 
soil, and they connect up with roots 
underground, and deliver nitrogen, 
phosphorus, and other compounds 
to the plants and in return the plants 
give that fungi carbon. It actually feeds 
them sugars from photosynthesis. What 
happened is that these fungi evolved 
first and allowed plants to colonize 
barren land that existed many millions 
of years ago and so, we do think 
actually the fungi came first and then 
came the plants. The log came after the 
fungi.On the flip side, is there stuff about 
mold that’s dangerous? 
Absolutely. They can wipe out entire 
crops; they can wipe out animals 
and infect humans. They produce 
compounds called mycotoxins, which 
can be very dangerous, and these 
compounds are produced for reasons 
we don’t totally understand. We think 
they produce mycotoxins to fight with 
other microbes, as these toxins can 
sometimes kill off neighboring microbes. 
In the 1950s and ’60s, there were some 
big outbreaks of molds. In Europe, a 
bunch of feed given to turkeys was 
contaminated by a particular fungus-
producing mycotoxin. All these turkeys 
started dying because of an Aspergillus  
disease, which is caused by mold. 
After that discovery, we realized that 
there are a lot of different types of 
places where molds can grow and 
produce mycotoxins. Often peanuts 
are screened for a mycotoxin called 
aflatoxins . These are pretty potent 
carcinogens that we need to monitor in 
our food systems. 
How do I avoid mycotoxins at home? 
Most high-risk foods we know are 
prone to mycotoxins are generally 
screened as per requirements by the US 
FDA. Peanut-based products in the US 
require regular screening for aflatoxins; 
they’re really the highest-risk product. 
There is research going on right now 
to try to evaluate coffee and chocolate, 
which both can get pretty moldy. But 
in general, if you’re eating food that’s 
been produced in a clean, safe way—
which most of the things in the US are 
produced as such—you don’t have to 
worry about mycotoxins.Enzymes 435If you’re making your own cheese or 
salami, you have to be careful that 
you’re inoculating with beneficial molds 
that don’t produce mycotoxins. The 
whole idea of color being an indicator 
of the safety of molds is really not a 
safe thing to be using for the home 
fermenter. Leave fancy moldy cheese 
and salami production to the people 
who are experts. 
Cheeses, salami, and you 
mentioned coffee and chocolate… 
Y ou’re mentioning some of my 
favorite things! 
And they’re all dependent on mold! 
My favorite mold in food is Aspergillus  
oryzae , which brings you sake and miso 
and soy sauce and all those wonderful 
Asian fermented foods.
In cheese and in salami, we also have 
wonderful molds. Camemberts and 
bries have that thick white sweater 
on their outside. That is a mold called 
Penicillium camemberti . The fungus is 
slowly decomposing the cheese curd 
that is on the inside of the cheese. 
It breaks down the proteins and the 
fats, which releases various flavors. It 
also makes it nice and creamy. When 
you look at aged salami, it’s also white 
and dusty on the outside because of 
Penicillium nalgiovense . This is another 
mold that is inoculated. In this case it’s 
more for keeping other molds off of the 
surface and creating this beautiful pure 
white product; it doesn’t add a whole 
lot of flavor.
Coffee and chocolate go through what 
is called  heap fermentation . You just pile 
up all the cacao pods and let them rot 
for a little bit of time. People largely 
attribute the downstream flavors of 
things like chocolate to the yeast and bacteria that are fermenting those 
products. 
Foods like salami and miso and cheeses 
are clearly fungal-dominated, and 
the fungi play huge roles in the flavor 
production of those foods. 
Should you eat the rind on cheeses 
that have visibly moldy outsides?
If it’s a cheese that’s supposed to be 
moldy, then you’re probably fine. 
Camembert and brie are definitely 
supposed to have mold on the outside. 
In fact, they encourage you to eat it 
because often the flavors of the cheese 
are partly in the rind. Then there are 
cheeses where the surface is crusty 
and has a weird texture, very crunchy 
and dry and really unpleasant. I don’t 
recommend eating the rinds on those 
cheeses, but on mold-ripened cheeses, 
they’re called “mold-ripened” because 
you’re supposed to eat the mold. 
If you are eating plastic-wrapped 
cheddar and eventually it gets moldy, 
be careful because you don’t know 
what that particular mold is. While it 
may appear to be only on the surface, 
it’s often unclear exactly how far in it’s 
grown, and it’s unclear if it’s producing 
any kind of toxins. If it’s not supposed to 
be moldy, I wouldn’t eat it. 
Any tips for managing good molds? 
How we store these things must 
impact whether the beneficial mold 
is doing the right thing.
People know from watching their 
bread go bad that there are molds 
everywhere. We breathe in spores of 
mold all the time. You just have to 
create a really clean environment where 
you minimize all those spores that are 
coming down onto your product.It’s also a seasonal thing. In the spring 
there’s a lot more growth in temperate 
regions, so there’s a higher risk of 
contamination then. In the fall, we get 
a lot of moldy “Frankencheeses,” as I 
like to call them, sent to our lab to be 
analyzed, because in the fall you have 
a lot of leaves dropping to the ground, 
there’s a lot of wind blowing spores 
around, and you end up getting a lot 
more colonization of bad molds at that 
time of the year as well. 
What other unexpected things have 
you come across with mold?
Wherever you have a moldy food, you 
will have mites, tiny little insects that 
freak a lot of people out. So you’ve 
probably heard of cheese mites that 
really should be called “mold mites” 
because they’re not really there for the 
cheese. They’re there to eat the molds, 
but they’re also disturbing your cheese 
or salami surface. 
A lot of cheese makers will either go 
through with a big vacuum cleaner 
or leaf blowers and blow the mites off 
of their cheese. It’s so ridiculous how 
much time and money is spent on 
cheese mites in the industry. I have 
a video that I think is adorable of a 
cheese mite eating mold. I think it’s 
great!
See http://cookingforgeeks.com/book/
cheesemites / for a video of cheese mites.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 436Transglutaminase
One of the more unusual food additives is 
transglutaminase , an enzyme originally found in 
blood. It can bond glutamine with other amino 
acids—it’s protein glue. It can fuse together two 
or three pieces of meat to create one larger piece, 
and it can thicken milk and yogurts by lengthening 
their proteins. It’s also used to firm up pastas and 
make gluten-free breads more elastic (able to stretch 
without tearing). Pretty much anywhere proteins are 
involved, transglutaminase can bind them together.
What could you do in the kitchen with 
transglutaminase? There’s of course the obvious 
opportunity to use it to make Frankenstein meats (e.g., 
chicken stuck to steak), but while these sound fun, they 
aren’t delicious; plus, the different temperature ranges 
needed for cooking makes them infeasible. The bacon-
wrapped scallop recipe will give you a starting idea, 
but really the concept of binding proteins can apply to 
any protein-rich items that you want to manipulate.
Imagine simplifying chicken Kiev —flattened 
chicken breast that’s traditionally rolled and tied 
around a center of herbed butter—by sealing the 
edges of the flattened chicken breast together 
with transglutaminase. More creative dishes like 
turducken—an unusual holiday dish of a chicken 
cooked inside a duck cooked inside a turkey—can 
be bonded together for stability. Heat-stable aspics 
and terrines can be made using transglutaminase 
where heat-sensitive gelatins would fail. You get the 
idea—experiment!
An example of chicken being 
bonded to steak. This isn’t 
delicious, but it shows the 
concept well. Notice that the 
cooked steak itself is weaker 
than the interface where 
it’s joined to the chicken!
Instructions for 
kitchen useCreate a slurry of 2 parts water to 1 part transgluta -
minase and brush it onto the surfaces of the pieces 
of meat that you want to join. Press them together 
and wrap the meat with plastic wrap. (If you have 
a vacuum sealer, use it to improve the fit between 
the two pieces of meat.) Store the meat in the 
fridge for at least two hours.Industry usesTransglutaminase is used to combine scrap meats 
into large pieces, such as in imitation crab meat 
and gluten-free hot dogs. Some cold cuts and 
lunch meats use transglutaminase too. (That gor -
geous ham at the deli counter is not from the rare 
boneless pig!)Origin and chemistryTransglutaminase is manufactured using the bac -
teria Streptomyces mobaraensis . Anywhere that 
glutamine and a suitable amine are present, trans -
glutaminase can be used to cross-link the two, 
causing the atoms composing the two groups to 
line up so that they form covalent bonds , in which 
two atoms share electrons.
To visualize the reaction, imagine spreading apart 
the fingers of your left and right hands and touch- 
ing the tips together, left thumb to right thumb, 
left pinky to right pinky, and so on. Without some 
amount of coordination, the atomic “fingers” won’t 
line up. Transglutaminase helps by providing 
the necessary atomic-level guidance for the two 
groups to connect. 
Before interaction (left), strands of proteins with glutamine 
and lysine groups are unattached; after interaction 
(right), the glutamine and amine groups are bonded 
wherever transglutaminase has a chance to catalyze. Enzymes 437
Scallops Enzymatically Wrapped in Bacon
The traditional way of making these is with 
toothpicks to hold the bacon against the scallop. If 
you can order some transglutaminase, try this recipe 
as an example of how to work with it. It’s cool to see 
bacon-wrapped scallops where the bacon just sticks 
to the scallop!
In a small bowl, mix roughly 2 parts water  to 1 part 
transglutaminase  by weight to create a thick slurry.
On a plate that will fit in your fridge, lay out:
 8 scallops, as large and as cylindrical as 
possible, patted dry
 8 slices bacon, cut in half so that they just 
wrap around a scallop once
Using a brush, coat one side of each piece of bacon 
with the slurry. Place a scallop on the bacon and 
roll the bacon around the scallop. Repeat for each 
scallop and transfer them to the fridge for at least 
2 hours to allow the transglutaminase to set.
After resting, the bacon should be well adhered to 
the scallops.
Preheat your oven to 400°F / 200°C.
Place the scallops in an oven-safe hot frying 
pan lightly coated with oil or a small amount of 
butter, with one of the exposed ends down. This 
will cause the scallop to develop a nice brown 
crust, along with great flavor. After a minute or 
so, flip the scallops over so 
that the other exposed side 
is in contact with the pan 
and immediately transfer 
your frying pan to the oven.
Finish the scallops in the 
oven for about 5–8 minutes, 
until the bacon is done and 
the scallops are cooked.Notes
• Don’t plunge your hands into the powder, and 
gloves are a good idea—you’re made of protein 
too!
• Transglutaminase requires cooking foods to 
proper food-safe temperatures. Unlike a single 
piece of steak where the center is sterile, the 
center of meat bonded together has been 
exposed to bacteria, just like ground meats.
• Since transglutaminase has the same structures 
as the amino acids it binds, it’s capable of 
binding to itself. After a few hours exposed at 
room temperature, it will lose its enzymatic 
properties, so it’s not a huge deal if you spill 
some on your countertop. When working with 
a bag of it, seal and store it in your freezer to 
slow the rate of the binding reaction.
• Since transglutaminase binds proteins at the 
molecular level, you can use it as a binder to 
create solids. An analogy: imagine taking wood 
glue and, instead of gluing two boards together, 
using it to create a paste with sawdust and 
spreading it out into a sheet. You’d end up with 
particleboard or chipboard—a composite that’s 
99% wood, but not in the form that it occurs in 
nature. The same concept applies here: a purée 
of protein-rich foods and transglutaminase can 
be formed into a solid and set.
Use a pastry brush to coat one side of a strip 
of bacon with transglutaminase. Roll the 
bacon around the scallop and pinch and 
press the ends together for a few seconds.
A cross-sectional slice of the cooked bacon-
wrapped scalloped shows the joined 
surface of the bacon and the scallop.
Playing with ChemicalsCooking for Geeks 438Harold McGee on Solving Food Mysteries
Harold McGee writes about the science of 
food and cooking. He is the author of the 
culinary classic On Food and Cooking  
(Scribner, 1984). His website is at http://
www.curiouscook.com .
How do you go about answering a 
food mystery?
It depends on the nature of the 
mystery. It can start with and mainly 
involve experiments in the kitchen, 
doing a particular process several 
different ways, changing one thing at a 
time, and seeing what the effect is. Or 
it can mean going to the food science 
or technical literature and hunting for 
information that might be relevant.
A recent example of the latter would 
be this column I wrote for the New York 
Times  about keeping berries and fruits 
longer than normal. I had been going 
to the farmers’ market and getting way 
too much fruit. It looked and tasted so 
good, but I couldn’t eat it all, and after a 
day, it would begin to mold, sometimes 
even in the refrigerator. I thought there 
might be a way to deal with this. So I drove up to UC Davis and used their 
online databases to search the literature 
for methods of controlling mold growth 
on produce.
I discovered that back in the 1970s 
some guys at one of the ARS [USDA 
Agricultural Research Service] stations 
here in California came up with a mild 
heat treatment that didn’t damage the 
fruit but did slow down substantially 
the growth of mold on the outside. 
I came back and gave it a try, and it 
worked. I didn’t have the knowledge or 
the tools to deal with it without doing 
some library research. I put it to the test 
because it’s one thing to read about 
something in the literature and another 
thing to make sure that it actually plays 
out that way in somebody’s kitchen.
Why not do this kind of literature 
search online? Is there something 
that UC Davis or an institution like 
that is able to provide researchers 
that they can’t get directly online 
back home in front of their 
computers?
There are wonderful resources that are 
available at both university and public 
libraries that an individual just can’t 
afford to subscribe to. In institutions 
with a food science department, there 
are resources on the shelf that you 
would never know about without 
going and looking, and I enjoy doing 
that, not necessarily to answer the 
question “What do people know today 
about X?” but more “How have people 
dealt with X over the centuries?”Centuries? Can you give me an 
example of something from that 
kind of historical research?
Tomato leaves are not toxic the way 
people thought they were. In fact, 
they’re probably beneficial to eat 
because they bind to cholesterol and 
prevent us from absorbing it. The 
question arose: “How did we get this 
idea that they’re toxic if they’re not?”
I delved back as far as I could in some 
pretty obscure literature to try to figure 
that out, and that included going up 
to UC Davis and taking a look at a 
couple of books from the 17th and 18th 
centuries on Dutch ethnography of 
the Pacific. I tracked down a reference 
to people eating tomato leaves on an 
island in the Indonesian Archipelago 
in the 17th century. This would have 
been shortly after tomatoes had been 
introduced there because they are not 
native to that part of the world. That 
fleshes out the story of how this plant 
found its way around the world, how it 
developed a reputation, and the kinds 
of aesthetic judgments that people 
made about it.
In Europe, people didn’t eat the leaves 
because they thought they stank. In 
Central and South America, where 
tomatoes came from, the leaves 
weren’t much eaten, which I still don’t 
understand. Just pulling all of these bits 
together to me is part of the pleasure 
of understanding and appreciating the 
food that I sit down and eat at my table 
today. There is this tremendous depth 
of history and complexity that, if you 
delve into it, can make it even more 
pleasurable to eat these things.PHOTO OF HAROLD MCGEE USED BY PERMISSION OF KARL PETZKE439One of the things I like best about the 
job I have is not so much the writing; 
it’s the exploring, it’s tracking down 
these books and reading this paragraph 
about people on this island centuries 
ago doing this with the leaves, then 
coming home and trying to get some 
sense of what that tasted like using 
leaves from my own backyard and the 
equivalent of the preserved fish that 
they were probably using back then to 
season them.
I imagine that our understanding 
about food is getting more refined, 
and we’re correcting a lot of 
previous misconceptions. What do 
you hope future research will spend 
time working on?
If I could name one area that I wish 
people with the equipment, expertise, 
and resources would pay more 
attention to and work harder on, it is 
flavor and the influence of different 
cooking methods on the ultimate 
experience of particular preparations. 
There are so many interesting questions 
about different ways of doing the same 
thing where, at the moment, basically 
you have your own personal experience 
and the experience of other people but 
no good, objective yardstick.
What are the real differences? Are 
we experiencing the same set of 
compounds differently because we 
have different sensory systems, or do, 
in fact, different techniques produce 
different sets of compounds where 
you happen to prefer this and I happen 
to prefer that? An example would be 
making stocks. There are some people 
who are real partisans of doing stocks in 
pressure cookers and others who think 
that the long, slow, barely-at-a-simmer 
method gives you a superior result. I’ve 
done both, and I like both, but they are different. I’m not sure I can really explain 
how they are different, so I would love 
to know what’s going on there.
What does the home cook need 
to understand about what they’re 
doing in the kitchen?
A scale and a good thermometer are 
absolutely essential if you’re going 
to try to understand things and do 
experiments carefully enough to draw 
real conclusions. You need to be able to 
measure, and temperature and weight 
are the main variables.
Is there something that really 
surprised you in the kitchen?
I suppose the one moment in my life 
that really confounded my expectation 
was the copper bowl versus glass bowl 
for beating egg whites. I was reading 
Julia Child while I was writing the book 
[On Food and Cooking ] the first time 
in the late 1970s. She said that you 
should whip egg whites in a copper 
bowl because it acidifies the whites and 
gives you a better foam for meringue 
and soufflés, but the chemistry was 
wrong. Copper doesn’t change the pH 
of solutions, so I thought that since the 
explanation was wrong, there probably 
was nothing to the claim either.
Then a couple of years later, when it 
came time to get ready for publication, 
I was looking at old graphic sources for 
illustrations for the book. I looked at 
a French encyclopedia from the 17th 
century that had a lot of professions 
illustrated. One of them was a pastry 
kitchen. In the engraving, there was 
a boy beating egg whites, and it said 
that the boy was beating egg whites 
in a copper bowl to make biscuits. It 
specified a copper bowl, and it looked 
exactly like today’s copper bowls: it 
was hemispherical and had a ring for hanging. I thought if a French book 
from 200 years ago is saying the same 
thing that Julia Child said, then maybe I 
should give it a try.
I tried a glass bowl and a copper bowl 
side by side, so I could look at them 
and taste them, and the difference was 
huge. It took twice as long to make a 
foam in the copper bowl; the color was 
different, the texture was different, the 
stability was different. That was a very 
important moment for me. You may 
know that somebody else doesn’t know 
the chemistry, but they probably know 
a lot more about cooking than you do. 
That certainly got me to realize that I 
really did have to check everything I 
could.
A French chef told me a story. He’d 
made a million meringues in his life, 
and one day he was in the middle of 
whipping the egg whites in a machine. 
The phone rang—there was some kind 
of emergency and he had to go away 
for 15 or 20 minutes—so he just left 
the machine running. He came back to 
the best-whipped egg whites he’d ever 
seen in his life. His conclusion from that 
was, in French, “ Je sais, je sais que je sais 
jamais .” It sounds a lot better in French 
than it does in English, but the English 
is, “I know, I know that I never know.”
Thanks to that experience with the 
copper bowl, that’s been my motto 
as well. No matter how crazy an idea 
sounds or how much I distrust my own 
senses when I do something, and it 
somehow seems inexplicably different 
from what it should be, I know that I’m 
never going to understand everything 
completely, and there’s probably a lot 
more to learn about whatever it is that’s 
going on.
Playing with ChemicalsKitchen Tips for the Geek
Manage expectations and perceptions.  
When you’re cooking for someone, expectations 
and perceptions are just as important as the 
objective quality of the dish. Only you, as the 
cook, will know what it was supposed to be. If 
the chocolate soufflé falls, call it a fallen 
chocolate cake, toss some berries on top, 
and ship it.
Use quality ingredients. The number one 
predictor of a great-tasting meal is great-tasting 
produce and ingredients. Tomatoes should 
taste like tomatoes, avocados should be 
soft and creamy, and apples should have 
their distinctive crispness.
Create harmony and balance. Harmony comes 
from combining compatible ingredients. Balance 
comes from adjusting sweetness and sourness (acids) 
and seasoning correctly with salt. 
Start with good produce, 
taste it, and adjust with 
an acid (vinegar, lemon 
juice), salt, or sugar.
Practice food safety. When working in the 
kitchen, be mindful of the growing conditions for 
pathogens. Avoid cross-contamination by 
washing your hands. Frequently. 
Foodborne illness isn’t fun, but it’s easily 
managed with some understanding of 
where the risks lie.
Eat whole foods. There’s nothing inherently wrong 
with processed foods, but they tend to be higher in 
salt, sugar, and fat. Like anything, too 
much of them can be problematic 
because of what our body does or 
doesn’t do in response.Measure temperatures, not time. Proteins in 
meats and starches in grains undergo 
reactions at certain temperatures, regardless 
of whether they’re boiled, grilled, or 
sautéed. A 4-pound chicken will cook 
faster than a 6-pound chicken, but 
both will be done at the same 
temperature. Timers are useful, but 
internal temperature tells you a lot more.
Add flavor and  aroma with browning 
reactions. When sugars caramelize (for sucrose, 
starting at around 340°F / 171°C) and 
proteins undergo Maillard reactions 
(starting at around 310°F / 155°C), they 
break down and form hundreds of 
new compounds. Some dishes 
benefit from how those compounds 
smell, so cook accordingly!
Pay attention to the details when baking. 
Use weight instead of volume measurements, and pay 
attention to the various variables in play—gluten 
levels, moisture content, and pH levels especially. 
Baking is a great place for A/B experimentation: the 
ingredients are cheap and 
relatively consistent, and the 
results are easy to foist 
off onto coworkers 
trying to lose 
weight (muhahaha).
Experiment! If you’re not sure how to do 
something, take a guess. If you aren’t sure 
which way to do something, try both. One 
way will probably work better, and 
you’ll learn something in the process. 
Worst case, you can always order 
pizza. Have fun and be curious, but 
use your common sense and be safe.
POSTSCRIPT
USING MODELS TO DESCRIBE HOW THE WORLD WORKS IS FASCINATING. This 
is why so many geeks are drawn to technical disciplines like science and software, which 
build models to predict outcomes. But there is a difference between models and the world 
they describe. Applying models without understanding this basic fact leads to errors, and 
those errors can get you into trouble. Making an argument based on “scientific proof” misses 
fundamental aspects of the scientific process: models describe precise things, models have 
errors, and the scientific process is about recognizing those errors and finding better models.
Much of the media is especially guilty of reporting on scientific models without 
understanding how they work. Economist Paul Krugman once joked about how the media 
would cover a statement about the sky being green: “Some say the sky is green; others 
disagree. ” We see this in other areas—climate change is undeniable, but there are still 
research papers that don’t support it. And I see the same issue in food and food science. 
Food chemistry is an incredibly complicated area, made more confusing by companies 
seeking a profit, and so the way the general public views it is often at odds with how 
scientists understand it. The challenge for me is in separating the facts from the opinions. 
So how can a smart geek understand and navigate a topic as seemingly simple as cooking? 
Start by realizing that any model you have about how food works—nutritionally, culinarily, 
hedonistically—has inaccuracies. Check any assumptions (“show me the data”) and red-
flag any claims that sound too good to be true. Be skeptical of the things that you hear, 
understanding that the speaker’s incentives aren’t always aligned with your own. Beyond 
that, learn how to dig through documents and identify properly researched work. Here, in 
order of most preferred to least preferred, are the resources I find useful:How to Be a Smarter Geek
   441Cooking for Geeks 442Google Scholar ( http://scholar.google.com ) 
This is a specialized  search engine that indexes academic research and patents. 
While most of the papers are behind paywalls, the abstracts are freely available and 
often answer the question at hand. Look for affiliations with well-known accredited 
institutions. Give preference to metastudies (papers that aggregate findings from many 
prior published papers); one paper does not prove a point. Patents are also a great 
source of information—the background section is written in clear language and often 
easy to understand. While a patent is not peer-reviewed, there is a huge economic 
incentive for the document producer to get it as correct as possible. Besides, peer 
reviews are not a guarantee of quality. Science journalist John Bohannon tested this by 
submitting slight variations of an intentionally flawed paper to a few hundred open-
access, peer-reviewed journals. More than half  accepted it for publication. There are a lot 
of sham peer-reviewed journals out there, aiming to make a buck by publishing (for a 
modest fee) papers that in turn give lower-rung academics another few lines in their CVs.
Searching Google Scholar can be daunting at first, especially because of the technical 
language—search with the word sucrose  instead of sugar , for example—but it’s the 
best way to unearth proper source material. If you find a citation or patent that’s related 
to your question but not conclusive, look through “cited by” and “referenced by. ”
Google Books ( http://books.google.com ) 
This is another  specialized index, in this case one that searches through printed books 
and magazines. The material indexed in Google Books does not have the same level of 
rigor as that in Google Scholar, but I find that the content is of better quality than the 
general online echo chamber (although, alas, there are not as many images of adorable 
dogs and cats).
When working with Google Books, pay attention to publication dates. I’ve had results 
from the early 1900s mixed in with more modern books; I stick to those printed after 
1970, and ideally after 2000. That said, sadly, I’ve found the quality of very recently 
published material to be low; the main exceptions are “Handbook of X”–type books, 
which are technical publications covering specific topics.  443General search engines 
These can be really spotty. It wasn’t always so—I’m an Internet geezer, being old 
enough to remember when the first full-text search engine, AltaVista, debuted—but 
as content mills have refined their web content for maximum ad revenue, the results 
of a general online search are now an echo chamber when it comes to science. This is a 
serious problem. Consider one of my favorite headlines: “Scientific proof that a bacon 
sandwich is the best cure for a hangover revealed. ” Elin Roberts, the UK-based science 
communicator quoted in the article, did nothing wrong (and everything right), but one 
newspaper after another requoted her original statement, coming up with ridiculous 
titles along the way. At some point the echo chamber also granted her a PhD and 
changed her title to Chemistry Researcher at Newcastle University. Even journalists can 
make great leaps in science when bacon is involved!
The kitchen
There’s no substitute for trying things out yourself. The theoretical aspects may be 
correct in isolation, but in practice, in your kitchen, lots of other stuff is going on. Be 
careful not to extrapolate backward, though. You may read research papers that reveal 
marked differences in how an ingredient performs based on something like humidity 
but not see the change when testing in your kitchen. That doesn’t mean that the 
research is incorrect! Cooking is a complex system; you may think you’re changing only 
one variable but may in fact be changing multiple.
Whatever your reasons for learning to cook—health, financial, social, empowerment, 
creativity—cooking should be fun. I hope this book has shown you ways to bring 
playfulness to food, both inside and outside the kitchen, and a new way to view science. 
For new cooks, I hope that the unknowns in cooking have been replaced with an 
understanding of the basics. For experienced cooks, I hope that the science behind cooking 
has brought you fascinating insights and sparked new ideas.
See my tips on page 440 for how I’d summarize the lessons in this book. A final science 
reminder for culinary success: it’s the physical and chemical reactions that happen in food 
that matter; the heat of your oven or frying pan is only indirectly involved. Think about 
how temperature- and chemistry-related reactions occur, and either trigger them ( mmm , 
golden-brown oatmeal cookies!) or avoid them. When cooking for others, remember to pay 
attention to presentation and expectations too.
If you have questions or comments, please reach out to me: visit either http://www.
cookingforgeeks.com  or http://www.jeffpotter.org  and let me know your thoughts.APPENDIX
FOOD ALLERGIES ARE CAUSED BY AN IMMUNE SYSTEM RESPONSE TO CERTAIN 
TYPES OF PROTEINS. In some individuals, the immune system misidentifies certain 
proteins as harmful and generates a histamine reaction in response to them.
Immune reactions can occur within a few minutes to several hours of the person 
ingesting the offending food item. Minor reactions include a tingling sensation on 
the tongue or lips, itchy eyes, runny nose, or skin rashes lasting from a few hours to a 
day. More extreme reactions include throat constriction, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, 
coughing, and possibly death.
• If you ever encounter a reaction that involves tongue swelling, throat constriction, 
or restricted breathing—hallmarks of an anaphylactic reaction—call emergency 
services (911 in the US and Canada) and get to a hospital immediately. The swelling 
can increase to the point where it cuts off the airway. Those who know that they 
have particularly strong allergies will often carry an EpiPen, a small pen-sized 
medical device that auto-injects epinephrine to control the allergic reaction. (The 
injection buys 15 to 20 minutes of time to get to a hospital for further care.)
• Since an allergy is a response to a particular  protein in food, not the 
food itself, and because some types of proteins denature below the 
temperature at which the foods containing them are cooked, 
certain allergies apply only to uncooked foods. Your guests will 
be able to tell you their particular constraints.Cooking Around Allergies
   445Cooking for Geeks 446
• If your guests are especially sensitive, you will need to be particularly diligent to 
avoid cross-contamination—a few micrograms of bread left on a butter knife can 
trigger a reaction, as can leftover starches on a strainer from last night’s batch of 
pasta. It’s best to avoid using any allergen-containing item in the entire meal, but 
if you elect to cook a special side dish instead, treat the allergens as you would 
raw meats: separate them from the safe foods, and wash all items that will come 
in contact with that side dish (preferably in a dishwasher, as sponges can harbor 
enough traces to cause cross-contamination).
Chef Card
If you have serious 
food allergies, consider 
creating a chef card  
that you can hand to a 
waiter when dining out 
for the kitchen staff 
to review. About the 
size of an index card, a 
chef card communicates 
your allergies explicitly, 
quickly, and clearly.
© 2006, The Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network, www.foodallergy.org.Please ensure that my food does not contain any of these ingredients, and that
any utensils and equipment used to prepare my meals, as well as prep surfaces,
are thoroughly cleaned prior to use. THANK YOU for your cooperation.In order for me to avoid a life-threatening reaction , I must avoid  all foods that
contain these ingredients:WARNING! I am severely allergic to
© 2006, The Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network, www.foodallergy.org.Please ensure that my food does not contain any of these ingredients, and that
any utensils and equipment used to prepare my meals, as well as prep surfaces,
are thoroughly cleaned prior to use. THANK YOU for your cooperation.In order for me to avoid a life-threatening reaction , I must avoid  all foods that
contain these ingredients:WARNING! I am severely allergic toThis is an interactive PDF that will allow you to type your allergens directly onto the chef card. To view the fields where you may enter
information, click the "Highlight Fields" box in the upper right corner of this window.The Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network | Chef Card Template
© 2006, The Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network, www.foodallergy.org.Please ensure that my food does not contain any of these ingredients, and that
any utensils and equipment used to prepare my meals, as well as prep surfaces,
are thoroughly cleaned prior to use. THANK YOU for your cooperation.In order for me to avoid a life-threatening reaction , I must avoid  all foods that
contain these ingredients:WARNING! I am severely allergic toHow to use your chef card:
In addition to asking a lot of questions about
ingredients and preparation methods, many
food-allergic teens and adults carry a "chef
card" with them that outlines the foods that
they must avoid. The card is presented to the
chef or manager for review and serves as a
reminder of the food allergy.
Print your chef card on brightly colored paper
so that it will stand out in a restaurant’s hectic
atmosphere. Laminate your card to protect it
from getting stained. Be sure to make several
copies of your chef card so that if you forget to
get it back, you have extra copies available.
Substitutions for Common Allergies
So, you’ve just found out that someone you’re cooking for is allergic to an ingredient in your 
favorite family dish. What to do?
This section includes a number of suggestions for ingredient substitutions for the eight 
most common allergies, based on information from Kristi Winkels’s website, Eating with 
Food Allergies ( http://www.eatingwithfoodallergies.com ). Visit the website for additional 
suggestions and recipes tailored to those with allergies.
This list contains many of the common ingredients and foods to avoid, but you should still 
check any questionable ingredients with your guests.
Substitutions for Common Allergies 447Dairy Allergies
Ingredients to avoid
Casein, whey, whey solids, buttermilk solids, curds, 
milk solids, lactalbumin, caseinate, sodium caseinate.
Foods commonly containing dairy
Milk, buttermilk, chocolate (milk and dark), hot 
chocolate, “nondairy” creamers, baked goods, spreads 
including butter and many margarines (even some 
that say “nondairy” on the label), cheeses, yogurts, 
frozen yogurts, frozen desserts (such as ice cream, 
sherbets, and some sorbets), whipped toppings.Substitutions
For milk
Soy, rice, potato, almond, cashew, hazelnut, 
oat, hemp, and coconut milk are all possible 
substitutes for cow’s milk. If you aren’t dealing 
with a soy allergy as well, soy milk is a good 
option; it tastes pretty good and, when fortified, 
contains roughly the same amount of calcium 
and vitamin D (two important nutrients, 
especially for children). Rice milk is also often 
fortified and, like soy milk, can usually be found 
at the regular grocery store. Potato milk is 
available in specialty food stores in powder form.
For margarine
When searching for a dairy-free margarine, be 
sure to examine the product labels carefully and 
make sure the ingredient list does not contain 
“milk derivatives. ” Also bear in mind that most 
“light” margarines are not suitable for baking.
For yogurt
If you’re a yogurt fan, check out soy yogurt or 
coconut milk yogurt. Try using it as a dip for fruit, 
or buy plain and use it to make a creamy salad 
dressing.
Cooking Around AllergiesCooking for Geeks 448Egg Allergies
Ingredients to avoid
Albumin, globulin, lysozyme, livetin, silici albuminate, 
Simplesse, vitellin, meringue, ingredients containing 
the word egg such as egg white, ingredients that 
begin with ovo (Latin for “egg”).
Foods commonly containing egg
Baked goods (cookies, cakes, muffins, breads, 
crackers), desserts (custards, puddings, ice creams), 
battered foods (fish and chicken nuggets), meatballs, 
meatloaf, pastas, sauces, dressings, soups.
Substitutions
While dishes like omelets and egg salads are out, 
you can still achieve reasonable results in baked 
goods. Eggs provide air and leavening in cakes, add 
structure to breads and cakes, and supply liquid in 
cookie doughs, cakes, and muffin batters. Determine 
which functions the egg provides in the baked item 
and experiment with using one of the following 
alternatives.
To replace one egg in baking:
Baking powder, water, and oil
Whisk together until foamy: 1½ tablespoons 
(20g) oil, 1½ tablespoons (22g) warm water, and 
1 teaspoon baking powder.
Unflavored gelatin
Mix 1 teaspoon (4g) unflavored gelatin with 1 
tablespoon (15g) warm water. You should be able 
to find unflavored gelatins in your grocery store 
near the flavored gelatin (like Jell-O).Flaxseed meal
Mix 1 tablespoon flaxseed meal with 3 
tablespoons warm water; let sit for 10 minutes. It 
does have a strong flavor, so it doesn’t work as an 
all-purpose egg replacement, but can be useful 
in cakes, pumpkin bars, oatmeal applesauce 
cookies, and muffins.
Fruit purée
In some cases, you can use a quarter cup of 
puréed banana or apple. Experiment!
Fish/Shellfish Allergies
An allergy to fish does not necessarily mean an 
allergy to shellfish, and vice versa. However, if you 
are cooking for someone who has an allergy in either 
category, the safest approach is to entirely avoid 
fish and seafood, unless your guest has specifically 
advised you of allowable food items.
Foods commonly containing fish or 
shellfish
Anything  with fish or seafood, including imitation 
crab meat, Caesar salad, Caesar dressing, 
Worcestershire sauce, some pizzas, gelatin 
(sometimes derived from fish or shellfish bones), 
some marshmallows, some sauces, antipasto dishes.
Substitutions for Common Allergies 449Peanut Allergies
Ingredients to avoid
Peanuts, peanut butter, peanut starch, peanut flour, 
peanut oil, mixed nuts, crushed nuts, hydrolyzed 
plant protein, hydrolyzed vegetable protein, 
vegetable oil (if the source isn’t specified), and 
depending upon the severity of the allergy, anything 
that states “may contain trace amounts of peanuts. ”
Foods commonly containing peanuts
Baked goods, baking mixes, chocolate and chocolate chips 
(many contain trace amounts of peanuts), candy, snacks, 
nut butters, cereals, sauces (peanuts are sometimes used 
as a thickener), Asian food (stir fry, sauces, egg rolls), veggie 
burgers, marzipan (almond paste).
Substitutions
If you have a dish that calls for peanuts directly, you 
might be able to substitute something else, such as 
cashews or sunflower seeds. For peanut butter, you 
can use soy nut butter, almond butter, cashew butter, 
or sunflower butter, if your guest is not allergic to 
them (true seeds and soy differ from peanuts).Tree Nut Allergies
Ingredients to avoid
Almond  (butter, pastes such as marzipan, flavoring, 
extract), Brazil nuts, cashews (butter, flavoring, extract), 
chestnuts (water chestnuts are okay as they’re not actually 
nuts), hazelnuts (filberts), hickory nuts, macadamia nuts 
(Queensland nut, bush nut, maroochi nut, queen of nuts, 
bauple nut), pecans, pine nuts, pinon (pignoli), pistachios, 
walnuts, nut meal, nougat, nut paste, Nutella.
Foods commonly containing nuts
Baked goods, snack foods, Asian foods, pesto, salads, 
candy. Cross-contamination is a major concern, so 
inspect packages for statements such as “may contain 
trace amounts of… ”
Substitutions
Working around nut allergies can be tricky. As with 
peanut allergies, your best bet is to select recipes that 
don’t rely on nuts. In salads and snacks, you can use 
seeds, such as sunflower, pumpkin, or sesame seeds. 
Sunflower butter can replace nut butters.
Sesame seed allergies are not uncommon, so check 
with your guest on this substitution.
Soy Allergies
Ingredients to avoid
Hydrolyzed  soy protein, miso, shoyu sauce, soy-
anything, soy protein concentrate, soy protein isolate, 
soy sauce, soybean, soybean granules, soybean curd, 
tempeh, textured vegetable protein (TVP), tofu.
Foods commonly containing soy
Baby foods, baked goods (cakes, cookies, muffins, 
breads), baking mixes, breakfast cereals, packaged 
dinners like spaghetti or macaroni and cheese, 
canned tuna packed in oil, margarine, shortening, vegetable oil and anything with vegetable oil in 
it, snack foods (including crackers, chips, pretzels), 
nondairy creamers, vitamin supplements.
Substitutions
There are no good substitutes for items like tofu and 
soy sauce, so choose recipes that don’t directly rely 
on soy-based products. Note that soy is used in an 
amazing number of commercial products—often 
in places that you wouldn’t suspect, such as pasta 
sauce—so read labels carefully!
Cooking Around AllergiesCooking for Geeks 450Wheat Allergies
Wheat allergies are triggered by proteins present in 
wheat specifically. 
A wheat  allergy is not the same as a gluten intolerance. 
Wheat allergy is often confused with celiac disease 
(gluten intolerance), which is an autoimmune disorder 
in which the small intestine reacts to the ingestion of 
gluten. Individuals with celiac disease must avoid all 
gluten, regardless of source. For more information on 
celiac disease, visit http://www.celiac.org .
Ingredients to avoid
Wheat (bran, germ, starch), bulgur, flour (graham, 
durham, enriched), gluten, modified food starch, malt, 
spelt, vegetable gums, semolina, hydrolyzed vegetable 
protein, starch, natural flavoring.
Foods commonly containing wheat
Breads (bagels, muffins, rolls, doughnuts, pancakes), 
desserts (cakes, cookies, baking mixes, pies), snacks 
(crackers, chips, cereals), most commercial soups 
including broths, pastas (noodles, packaged dinners 
containing pasta), condiments (soy sauce, Worcestershire 
sauce, salad dressings, barbeque sauces, marinades, 
glazes, some vinegars), beverages (beer, nonalcoholic 
beer, ale, root beer, instant chocolate drink mixes), meats 
(frozen meats that are packaged with broth, lunch meats, 
hot dogs), gravies and sauces (most likely thickened with 
wheat flour), flour tortillas, tabbouleh (salad dish), pilafs.
Substitutions
Pasta
Luckily, there are great alternatives to wheat pasta! 
Pasta also comes in rice, corn, and quinoa varieties. 
Take care to not overcook these types of pasta, 
because they can get mushy and fall apart easily, and 
remember to make sure the colander is really clean if 
you’ve previously used it for wheat pasta.Flour
Replacing wheat flour is tricky, because it contains 
gluten, which creates bread’s characteristic elastic 
structure and texture. It is difficult to duplicate 
wheat-based baked goods (especially bread) without 
wheat flour. Some nonwheat flours, such as barley 
and rye flour, do contain the proteins necessary to 
form gluten (see page 247).
People with a wheat allergy can usually tolerate 
those flours, while people with celiac disease cannot.
Rice flour and rye flour are easy to find. Check your 
regular grocery store. You can use either in place of 
wheat flour in some recipes (substituting at a 1:1 
ratio). Tapioca starch, potato starch (use ⅝ cup per 1 
cup of wheat flour, a 0.625:1 ratio), potato flour, and 
sorghum flour can also be used.
You can achieve better results by blending several 
flours together. For an all-purpose flour mix, combine 
¾ cups (120g) white rice flour, ¼ cup (30g) potato 
starch (not potato flour!), 2 tablespoons (15g) tapioca 
starch (also called tapioca flour), and, optionally, ¼ 
teaspoon (1g) xanthan gum.
Snacks
If your guest is more sensitive or has celiac disease, 
be sure to double-check with the manufacturer 
about shared manufacturing lines and cross-
contamination. Rice cakes, rice crackers, popcorn, 
and corn and potato chips make for excellent wheat-
free snacks (but are not necessarily gluten-free).Index
aldehydes, 91
Alexander, Christopher, 27
alkaline water, 241–242, 250
allicin, 217
alliin, 217
alliinase, 217
alloyed steels, 41
almond milk, 349
alternative reaction pathway, 432
altitude cooking tips, 238
aluminum, thermal conductivity of, 
46–47
Amanita mushroom, 434
American Society for Testing and Mate -
rials, 93–94
America’s Test Kitchen,  51, 231
amines, 91, 436
amino acids
Maillard reaction and, 213
protein denaturation and, 138
umami and, 77
ammonium chloride, 244
Amoore, J. E., 93
amphotericity, 274
amylase, 241
amylopectin, 206
amylose, 206, 207
Anctil, Linda, 121, 415
anions, defined, 383
Anisakis simplex,  183
anti-griddle, 366
antisugar, 393
AP flour, 246, 248
   451A
acetic acid. See also  vinegar
baking soda and, 274, 276
generating sour tastes in food, 72
hard water and, 240–241
pungent smell of, 93
sourdough starter, 272
yeast production of, 264
Achatz, Grant, 392
acid hydrolysis, 197
acidic water, 241–242, 250
acidity of foods
baking powder and, 286
chemical reactions and, 17, 45, 47
cooking approaches, 207
egg white foams and, 291
FAT TOM acronym, 175
food safety and, 177
PROP/PTC tasters and, 61
sour taste receptors and, 72
acid neutralization, 51
Acmella oleracea,  79
Acree, Terry, 95
actin
about, 164–165
denaturing, 138, 164, 197, 332, 334
sous vide cooking and, 321, 332, 
334
activation energy, 214
adenosine triphosphate (ATP), 164
adhesion promoter, 45
Adrià, Ferran, 392, 426
aflatoxins, 434African cuisines
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
mingled with other cultures, 22
miracle berries and, 71
rice porridge, 22
spicy/hot taste, 79
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
agar, 423–425
about, 349, 379
Chocolate Panna Cotta,  424
Clarified Lime Juice,  425
air bubbles
foamed foods and, 318
leaveners and, 48, 238, 247
removing, 317
air generation, 235–303
biological leaveners, 262–272
chemical leaveners, 273–288
gluten and, 246–250
key variables in baking, 236–238
mechanical leaveners, 17, 289–301
Albufera Sauce,  106
albumin, 168, 330
alcohol
beer, 262
Chocolate Port Cake,  295
in cooking, 99
edible martini, 319
as food additive, 399
Poached Pears,  210
as solvent, 398, 400
Vanilla Extract,  400
Vodka Sauce,  107
White Wine and Cheese Sauce,  298Index 452Lahey on, 260–261
mechanical leaveners, 17, 289–301
pastry chefs and, 221–223, 302–303
Pie Dough,  258–259
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
power of steam in, 236–238
temperatures for reactions, 138, 223
tips for altitude, 238
water chemistry and, 240–242
weighing ingredients, 50
with butter, 155
baking powder, 286–288
making from baking soda, 286
Ried on, 52
tips for altitude, 238
baking soda, 273–285
acidity of berries and, 17
acid neutralization of, 51, 207
alkaline water and, 242
as food additive, 377
making baking powder from, 286
tips for altitude, 238
baking stones, 35, 144, 265
Baklava, Pistachio Chocolate,  256
Baldwin, Douglas, 327–329
bananas, storage tips, 119
Barbecue Ribs, Oven-Cooked,  405
Barrett, Ann, 412–413
Bartoshuk, Linda, 61, 86–87
Basic White Stock,  350
Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella Salad,  
114
Bayou Sauce,  105
bean and lentil  dishes
Khichdi,  311
Lemon Lentil Soup,  19
pressure cooking, 309
Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, and 
Cilantro Chicken,  28
Winter White Bean and Garlic Soup,  
116
Béarnaise Sauce,  108
Béchamel Sauce,  105
Beef Jerky,  322, 353–355
Beef Steak Tips,  335
beer
filtering with isinglass, 349
foams from, 391
yeast for, 262
Beet Salad,  121
Belgian Endive, Broiled,  75
Belgian Meatballs,  185
Belitz, H.-D., 123–124atoms, defined, 382
ATP (adenosine triphosphate), 164
Aurora Sauce,  106
autoignition point (fats), 153
avocados, storage tips, 119
Axel, Richard, 89
Ayurvedic practices, 80
B
Bacillus cereus
danger zone rule and, 171
FAT TOM acronym and, 177
survival temperature for, 177, 325
toxins produced by, 173
bacon
Bacon-Wrapped Scallops,  437
Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and 
Lardons,  75
bacteria
as biological leavener, 272
carbon knives and, 41
categories of, 175
converting cis fats to trans fats, 151
count required, 179
danger zone rule, 170–186
dishwashers and, 44
eggs and, 191
foodborne illness and, 170–186
freezing foods and, 186
sous vide cooking and, 320, 322, 
325
surface contamination, 169
survival temperatures, 138, 170, 
177, 325
thermal death time, 172
vacuum sealing and, 320
yogurt and, 73
Bad Bug Book  (FDA), 173, 325
bakers (cooking type)
characteristics of, 8
self-test, 9
baker’s yeast, 262
baking, 235–303
acidity of berries, 17
biological leaveners, 262–272
chemical leaveners, 17, 51–52, 207, 
273–288
convection method and, 143, 145
error tolerances in, 258
gluten and, 246–250
heat shields, 144
humidity affecting, 142
ingredients at room temperature, 17appetizers and sides
Baked Goat Cheese with Almonds 
and Honey,  31
Broiled Belgian Endive,  75
cooking artichokes, 70
Flatbreads,  253
Grilled Summer Vegetables,  211
Grilled Sweet Potato Fries,  211
Grilled Vegetables,  211
Mac ‘n Cheese,  105
Puff Pastry Squares or Twists,  31
Quick-Steamed Asparagus,  208
Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red 
Onions,  230
Roasted Green Olives,  31
Rosemary Mashed Potatoes,  212
Salmon Gravlax,  385
Sautéed Greens with Sesame Seeds,  
209
Seeded Crackers,  253
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
apples
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326
Mock Apple Pie,  96–97
apricots, storage tips, 119
Arn, Heinrich, 95
Arnold, Dave, 319, 358–359, 425
arrack (alcoholic drink), 360
arrowroot, 409–411
artichokes
cooking, 70
pairing difficulty with wine, 71
ascorbic acid, 72, 241
Asian cuisines
alcoholic drinks, 360
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
learning flavors from, 133
rice porridge, 22
spicy/hot taste and. See spicy/hot 
(taste)
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
asparagus
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
Quick-Steamed Asparagus,  208
storage tips, 120
aspartame, 69
aspartate (amino acid), 76
Aspergillus,  434–435
Aspergillus oryzae,  435
astringency, 79
Atlas of Odor Character Profiles,  93–94, 
127Index 453benzaldehyde, 97
benzoate, 384
Bercy Sauce,  106
berries
acidity of, 17
freezing, 365
miracle, 71
storage tips for, 119–120
beurre monté,  322
binders, 164
biological leaveners, 262–272
bacteria, 272
tips for altitude, 238
yeast, 262–271
bitter (taste)
about, 58–59, 74
adjusting seasonings, 74
confusing with sour taste, 74
genetic taste differences, 61, 65, 74
Lancaster on, 232
neutralizing with salt, 56
salt substitutes and, 64
sugar substitutes and, 69
taste adaptation and, 60
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
Bittman, Mark, 260
blackberries, storage tips, 120
blooming
in chocolate, 158–159
in spices, 399
Bloom, Oscar, 381
blowtorches, 367–369, 403
blueberries, storage tips, 119
Blumenthal, Heston, 128
boiling point of water
altitude and, 238
pressure cooking and, 306, 308–309
salt and, 238, 242, 306
bone digester, 309
boning knife, 42
Bordelaise Sauce,  109
Boston Cooking-School Cook Book,  18
Boston Globe Magazine,  51–52
Botox, 175
botulism, 402
BPA (bisphenol A), 323
Brabender Units, 249
Bread-and-Butter Quick Pickles,  
388–389
bread knife, 37
Bread Pudding,  192
breads
Bread Pudding,  192
Flatbreads,  253freezing, 265
friendship bread, 262–263
Golden Corn Cake,  18
kneading, 249, 261
Lahey on, 260–261
No-Knead Bread,  261
No-Knead Pizza Dough,  271
Popovers,  239
salt-rising, 272
Scones,  288
Seeded Crackers,  253
Simple Bread,  264–265
Sourdough Starter,  272
yeast in, 264–268
breakfast
Buttermilk Pancakes,  278
Congee,  22
Crepes,  251
Foamed Scrambled Eggs,  315
French Toast,  192
Hard-Cooked Eggs, Easy-to-Peel,  
193
Internet Average Pancakes,  10
Oat and Egg White Frittata with 
Fruit,  13
Oven-Roasted Eggs,  194
Poached Eggs,  193
Scones,  288
Simple Ginger Syrup,  70
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
Slow Scrambled Eggs,  194
Steel-Cut Oats,  12
Yeast Waffles,  267
breaking knife, 42
Brillat-Savarin, Jean Anthelme, 76
brines
about, 386
flash pickling, 319
Japanese-style Brine,  62
Lancaster on, 232
tenderizing meats, 165
Brisket, 48-Hour,  336
broccoli, storage tips, 120
broiling
Broiled Belgian Endive,  75
Butterflied Roast Chicken,  218–219
as radiant heat, 145
bromelain, 165
broths, 31, 76, 349
Brown, Alton, 219–220
Brown, Amy, 344–345
Brown Butter, Powdered, 417
browned butter, 153, 156Brownies in an Orange,  32
browning reactions. See carameliza -
tion; Maillard reaction
Brown Sauce,  109
brown sugar, 69
brunoise cuts of meat, 174
Bruschetta, Tomato, Herb, and 
Squid,  199
Buck, Linda, 89
buckwheat
Crepes,  251
gluten sensitivies and, 246
butcher’s steel, 41–42
butter
about, 152, 154–156
baking with, 155
browned, 156
clarified, 153, 156
error tolerances in measuring, 
258
herbed, 401–402
making, 154
melting point, 153
storing, 155
types of, 154–155
water whisked into, 322
Butter Cookies,  224–225
Buttermilk-Marinated Skirt Steak,  
167
Buttermilk Pancakes,  278
Butternut Squash Soup, Fall,  118
Butternut Squash Soup, Vadouvan,  
110
C
cabbage, storage tips, 120
cacao, 157
caffeine, 61
Cake Doughnuts,  345–346
cake flour, 252
cakes
Chocolate Cake, 30-Second,  316
Chocolate Cake, One-Bowl,  
280–281
Chocolate Espresso Ganache 
Frosting,  281
Chocolate Port Cake,  295
optimal cake-cutting protocol, 
296
Pumpkin Cake,  287
calcium
pectin and, 419
sodium alginate and, 427Index 454Child, Julia
appeal of, 15
distaste for cilantro, 91
fear of cooking and, 14
kitchen organization and, 26
making French onion soup, 38
Mastering the Art of French Cooking,  
219
McGee on, 439
chill injury, 119
Chinese cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
learning flavors from, 133
rice porridge, 22
spicy/hot taste and. See spicy/hot 
(taste)
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
chinois, 349
Chiquart, Maistre, 20
chirality, 91
chloride ion, 64
chlorine, 241
chlorogenic acid, 71
chlorophyll, 207
chocolate
about, 157–160
blooming in, 158–159
Chocolate Bar, Bittersweet,  161
Chocolate Cake, 30-Second,  316
Chocolate Cake, One-Bowl,  280–281
Chocolate Chip Cookies,  284–285
Chocolate Espresso Ganache Frost -
ing, 281
Chocolate Mousse,  301, 313, 315
Chocolate Panna Cotta,  424
Chocolate Port Cake,  295
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream,  364
conching process, 157, 161
couverture, 160
heap fermentation and, 435
ingredients similar to, 128
Peppermint Chocolate Mints,  81
Pistachio Chocolate Baklava,  256
seized, 159
sous vide cooking, 339
tempering, 157–160, 339
volatile compounds in, 90
white, 160
chromatography, 348
Chu, Michael, 19
cimeter steak knife, 42
Cinnamon Raisin Pumpkin Cake,  
287–288cellulose, 205
Centers for Disease Control and Preven -
tion (CDC), 171
centrifuges in the kitchen, 351–352, 
359
cestodes, 183
chalaza (eggs), 187–188, 316
Chantilly Cream,  301
charcoal, making, 404
cheese
Baked Goat Cheese with Almonds 
and Honey,  31
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
Fresh Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
Mac ‘n Cheese,  105
Mozzarella cheese, making, 433
Mozzarella Spheres,  427
Roasted Poblano and Cheddar 
Cheese Stuffed Pork Chops,  
66–67
Summer Watermelon and Feta 
Cheese Salad,  85
White Wine and Cheese Sauce,  298
Wolfe on, 434–435
chef card, 446
chef’s knife, 37
Chef Watson, 129
chemesthesis, 59, 79
chemical leaveners, 273–288
baking powder, 52, 286–288
baking soda, 17, 51, 207, 273–285
tips for altitude, 238
chemical reactions
acidity and, 17, 45, 47
as function of time/temperature, 
136–138
ingredients at room temperature, 17
rigor mortis, 162–163
temperatures of common, 138
chemical similarity method, 126–128
chemicals in foods. See food additives
chewy cookies, 282–285
Chez Panisse, 302
chicken
Butterflied Roast Chicken,  218–219
Chicken Kiev,  436
Chicken, Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, 
and Cilantro,  28
hold times for, 172
proteins in, 163
sous vide cooking, 332–333vegetable tissue and, 338
in water, 240–241, 250
calcium carbonate, 240–241
calibrating
freezers, 244–245
ovens, 35–36
caliciviruses, 175
camphoric odor, 93
Campylobacter,  178–179
Candied Orange Rind,  396
canola oil, 152–153, 377
capacity (egg white foams), 290
capsaicin
about, 59, 80
Scoville scale measuring, 80
caramelization
about, 136–137, 221
Caramel Sauces, Wet and Dry,  
228–229
Maillard reaction and, 215
starches and, 223
temperature for, 138, 221–230
carbohydrates
cooking vegetables, 205–212
FAT TOM acronym and, 175
saccharides and, 254
carbonated drinks, 307
carbon dioxide, 237, 240–242, 313, 365
carbonic anhydrase 4 enzyme, 80
carbon knives, 41
carboxylic acid, 149, 393
Carême, Marie-Antonin, 104
Caribbean cuisine, 63, 111
carrageenan, 379, 421–422
carrots
Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red 
Onions,  230
storage tips, 120
carryover in cooking, 140
carvone, 91
cassoulet, 112
cast iron pans
chemical reactions in, 45, 47
pan searing and, 169
as pizza stones, 265, 371
Reid on, 52
seasoning, 45
thermal conductivity of, 46–47
washing, 45, 52
cations, 383
Cato the Elder, 382
CDC (Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention), 171Index 455low-heat cooking. See sous vide 
cooking
methods of, 141–146
most important variable in, 137
Pépin on, 24–25
using pressure cooking. See press -
sure cooking
safe undercooked foods, 184
sous vide. See sous vide cooking
time and temperature when, 
135–233
tips for altitude, 238
with alcohol, 99
cooking styles
conflicts between, 8
self-test, 9
understanding, 8
Cooking: The Quintessential Art  (This), 
391
cooks (cooking type)
characteristics of, 8
self-test, 9
Wansink on, 8
Cook’s Illustrated,  51, 231
cooling effect (menthol), 79
copper bowls, 291
coq au vin, 112
corn, gluten sensitivies and, 246
cornstarch
as food additive, 377, 409–411
crispy chewy cookies and, 283–284
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
making molds, 341
Quick Pan Gravy,  413
corn syrup, 69
countertops, 3 x 4 rule of, 27
couverture chocolate, 160
covalent bonds, 196, 436
Crackers, Seeded,  253
cream of tartar, , 221, 96, 286
cream whippers, 313–316
about, 313–314
pressure cooking and, 314
usage tips, 314
whipper fizzy fruit, 314
Crème Anglaise,  192
Crème Brûlée, Quinn’s,  368
Crepes,  251
Crisco shortening, 151
crispy-chewy cookies, 282–285
Chocolate Chip Cookies,  284–285
science of, 282–283
Crispy Oven Kale Chips,  353condensation, 143, 236–237, 360
conduction (heat transfer), 142, 145, 
322
Congee,  22–23
connective proteins, 163, 195
consommés
defined, 349
Drip-Filtered Consommé,  351
contaminants
BPA, 323
foodborne illnesses and, 170
industrial hardware and, 314, 359
on fruits and vegetables, 182, 200
surface, 169, 182, 184
continous phases (colloids), 380
convection (heat transfer)
about, 143, 145, 236
dry heat methods, 143, 145
wet heat methods, 143, 145
conventional foods, 122–123
converting to metric, 11
co-occurence of ingredients, 125–126, 
129
cook-chill cooking, 325
cook-hold cooking, 325
cookies
Butter Cookies,  224–225
caramelization and, 136–137
Chocolate Chip Cookies,  284–285
Cinnamon Snickerdoodles,  225
Coconut Macaroons,  294
crispy-chewy, 282–283
Gingerbread Cookies,  279
Meringue Cookies,  294
Oreo Cookies,  377
rates of reactions in, 226–227
Sugar Cookies,  224–225
cookie sheets, 144
cooking foods
with dry ice, 365–366
fear in the kitchen, 14–15
for one person, 28–29
for others, 30–33
heat shields, 144
high-heat cooking. See high-heat 
cooking
history of, 18–19
humidity affecting, 17, 142, 250, 373
in dishwasher, 146, 326
key temperatures in, 148–233
Lancaster on, 231–233
with liquid nitrogen, 361–366Cinnamon Snickerdoodles,  225
cis fats, 151
citric acid, 72, 74, 241
citronellyl valerate, 95
citrus. See also  lemons and lemon juice
Brownies in an Orange,  32
Candied Orange Rind,  396
Citrus Marmalade,  396
Clarified Lime Juice,  425
storage tips, 120
Civille, Gail Vance, 132–133
cladded pots and pans, 47
clarified butter, 153, 156
classification systems, 93–94
Clostridium botulinum,  175, 386, 389
Clostridium perfringens,  272, 328
cloud point (fats), 153
CNC printer, 340
coagulation, 165, 189
cocoa butter/fat, 152, 157, 158
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream,  364
cocoa solids, 157, 158
coconut oil, 150, 152
Codex Alimentarius Commission,  378
Cognitive Cooking  (Watson), 129
collagen
about, 164
denaturing, 148, 165, 195–204, 327
experiment, 204
isinglass and, 349
Lancaster on, 232
slow cooker and, 333
sous vide cooking and, 321
collard greens, storage tips, 120
colloids, 379–381
about, 379–380
continuous phase, 380
dispersed phase, 380
Marshmallows,  381
table of colloid types, 380
color contrast, 102
combi steamers, 236
commercial and industrial tools. 
See hardware in the kitchen
community-supported agriculture 
(CSA), 124–125
competitive (cooking style), 9
complex colloid, 380
compounds, 383
computational flavor inspiration, 
125–128
conching process, 157, 161Index 456distillation process, 347, 360
2,4-dithiapentane, 97
divalent cation, 426
DNA fingerprinting, 178
doneness
heat transfer and, 139–141
temperatures required for, 166
testing for, 138, 140
dork (venn diagram), 1
double bond, 149, 150, 151
Double-Crust Pie Dough,  259
doughnuts
500-Pound Doughnut,  344–346
Cake Doughnuts,  345–346
Dravnieks, Andrew, 93–94, 127
drinks
almond milk, 349
Simple Ginger Syrup for,  70
Sugar Swizzle Sticks,  356–357
yeast in, 262
Drip-Filtered Consommé,  351
drip-thawing, 349, 351
dry aging meats, 165
dry heat methods, 141–142, 236
dry ice, 365–366
drying foods (dehydration)
about, 347, 352–353
freeze-drying, 318
osmosis and, 386
DSC (differential scanning calorimetry), 
222, 230
Duck Confit,  200–201
Du fait de cuisine  (Chiquart), 20
Duncker, Karl, 6
Duncker’s Candle Problem, 6–7
Dutched cocoa powder, 157
E
Early French Cookery  (Scully), 20
E. coli
on chicken, 172
count required, 179
on cutting boards, 44
die off temperatures, 174
lethality of, 179
on meats, 355
probabilities of contracting, 171
time between ingestion and symp -
toms, 178
edamame, preparing, 78
Edman, Lenore, 341Democritus, 58
denaturation. See protein denaturation
desmin, 164
desserts. See also  cakes; cookies
Bread Pudding,  192
Brownies in an Orange,  32
Caramel Sauces, Wet and Dry,  
228–229
Chocolate Bar, Bittersweet,  161
Chocolate Mousse,  301, 313, 315
Chocolate Panna Cotta,  424
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream,  364
Crème Anglaise,  192
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326
Doughnut, 500-Pound,  344–346
French Meringue,  293
Fruit Soufflé,  299
Italian Meringue,  293
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
Mock Apple Pie,  96
Pie Dough,  258–259
Pistachio Chocolate Baklava,  256
Poached Pears,  210
Quinn’s Crème Brûlée,  368
Scones,  288
S’more Ice Cream,  405
Suger Bowls for Ice Cream,  342–343
Tiramisu,  19
Vanilla Custard,  192
Zabaglione,  298
dewar, defined, 362
dew point, 236
Dexter-Russell, 40–42
dextrin, 223
dextrose, 267
Diable Sauce,  109
diacetyl, 97
dietary restrictions, 30, 445–450
differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), 
222, 230
digital probe thermometers, 35, 49, 
183, 324
digital weight scales, 258
Dijon Sauce,  108
dinner parties, 30–33
dipole, 398
dishwasher, cooking in, 146, 326
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326
dispersed phase (colloids), 380
dispersion of gas, 289cross-contamination of foods
avoiding, 180–181
cutting boards and, 44
food allergies and, 446
raw meats and, 186
crosslinks
aging animals and, 198
defined, 196–197, 247–248
mechanical agitation and, 249
crystallization, 356–357
CSA (community-supported agricul -
ture), 124
cucumber, storage tips, 120
culinary mystery ingredient, 103
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
curing fish, 386
curious (venn diagram), 1
curry powder, 110
Custard, Vanilla,  192
cutting boards, 44
cynarin, 71
D
dairy products
allergies to, 447
Bread Pudding,  192
carrageenan in, 422
Chocolate Panna Cotta,  424
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream,  364
Crème Anglaise,  192
fats in, 300
foodborne illnesses and, 171
Gelled Milk with Iota and Kappa 
Carrageenan,  422
pressure cookers and, 310
Quinn’s Crème Brûlée,  368
S’more Ice Cream,  405
Sour Cream, Homemade,  155
substitutions for allergies, 447
Vanilla Custard,  192
Yogurt, Homemade,  73
danger zone rule, 170–186, 325
Darwin Award, 362
dashi  (stock), 77
de Botton, Alain, 15
decanting centrifuge, 347
deep-fat frying, 145, 146
dehydration (drying foods)
about, 347, 352–353
freeze-drying, 318
osmosis and, 386Index 457on handling fish, 184, 330–331
inspecting imports, 124
on pasteurizing eggs, 329
on salt concentrations, 386
screening for aflatoxins, 434
fear of failure, 14–15
feathers (burrs), 41
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
fermentation
hard water and, 241
heap, 435
sour taste and, 72
wild, 272
yeast and, 266
Feta Cheese (and Watermelon) Salad,  
85
filtration, 347–351, 430
fire point (fats), 153
fish and seafood
allergies to, 448
Bacon-Wrapped Scallops,  437
collagen in, 197
curing, 386
environmentally sound, 115
Fish Tacos with Pickle and Straw -
berry Relish,  129
food safety and, 177, 180, 183–184, 
330–331
freezing, 183, 184, 331
key temperatures in cooking, 
162–169
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
Pan-Seared Mussels with Butter and 
Shallots,  67
pasteurizing, 183, 328
prepackaged, 331
proteins in, 162–169
Salmon Gravlax,  385
Salmon Poached in Olive Oil,  168
salt concentrations in, 386
Salt-Roasted Fish with Lemon and 
Herbs,  147
salt roasting, 147
Scallop Ceviche,  176
Seared Scallops,  220
sous vide cooking, 322, 329–331
storage tips, 186
substitutions for allergies, 448
temperatures for doneness, 166
Tomato, Herb, and Squid Bruschetta,  
199enhanced cell-cell adhesion, 338
E numbers classification, 378–379, 397
Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA), 45, 242
Environmental Working Group, 12
enzymes, 432–437
EPA (Environmental Protection 
Agency), 45, 242
Epsom salt, 64, 383
equipment. See also  kitchen equip -
ment
Escoffier, Auguste, 104, 107
Espagnole Sauce,  109
esters, 91
ethanol. See alcohol
ethereal odor, 93
ethyl butanoate, 97
ethylene gas, 119–120
ethyl hexanoate, 97
European Union, 122
Evans, Maureen, 19
evaporation
distillation and, 360
drying and, 352–353
making sea salt via, 65
rate of reaction, 353
exothermic reaction, 395
experiments. See labs (experiments)
exploration, inspiration by, 103–111
extinction, 100
F
Fahrenheit, Daniel, 244
Farmer, Fannie, 18
fats
in dairy products, 300
egg white foams and, 291–292
error tolerances in measuring, 258
gluten formation and, 249
key temperatures in, 148–161
in meats, 163
Powdered Brown Butter,  417
FAT TOM acronym, 175, 382, 384
fatty acids, 149–151
FDA (Food and Drug Administration)
Bad Bug Book,  173, 325
on bittersweet chocolate, 161
on cooking chicken, 172
on curing fish, 386
on food additives, 376
Food Code, 172, 330
food safety, 402
on freezer temperatures, 245eggs
about, 187
allergies to, 448
Bread Pudding,  192
cooking, 17, 142, 189–191, 358
cracking, 188
Crème Anglaise,  192
Foamed Scrambled Eggs,  315
food safety and, 174, 191, 293, 329
Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and 
Lardons,  75
Hard-Cooked Eggs, Easy-to-Peel,  
193
key temperatures for, 166, 187–194
Oven-Roasted Eggs,  194
parts of, 187–188
pasteurizing, 329
Poached Eggs,  193
Salad Lyonnaise,  75
sample weights, 194
Slow Scrambled Eggs,  194
sous vide cooking, 320–322, 329
Steak Tartare with Poached Egg,  174
steaming, 193
substitutions for allergies, 448
temperatures for doneness, 166
Vanilla Custard,  192
egg whites, 289–296
about, 188
beating, 439
copper bowls and, 291
food safety and, 293, 301
Maillard reactions and, 214
as mechanical leaveners, 289–296
meringues, 293
Oat and Egg White Frittata with 
Fruit,  13
tips for altitude, 238
egg yolks, 297–299
about, 187–188
fatty acid profiles, 152
as mechanical leaveners, 297–299
protein temperature span for, 190
elasticity, 241
emulsions and emulsifiers
about, 297, 429
from beer, 391
lecithin and, 313, 430–431
Mayonnaise,  430–431
table of colloid types, 380
enantiomers, 91
endothermic reaction, 395
endowment effect, 102
energy, thermal, 46–47Index 458parasites and, 175, 183, 328
plant material with liquid nitrogen, 
363
freezing point of water, 244–245, 306
French cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
French Meringue,  293
French Onion Soup, One-Hour,  
38–39
Lebovitz on, 302–303
sauces and, 104
Sauce Tomate,  107
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
French Toast,  192
friendship bread, 262
Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and 
Lardons,  75
Frosting, Chocolate Espresso Ganache,  
281–282
fructose, 68, 81, 221, 267
fruit
Candied Orange Rind,  396
Citrus Marmalade,  396
cooking, 207
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326
DIY roll-ups, 353
drying, 352
environmentally sound, 115
fizzy fruit, 365
food safety and, 182
Fruit Juice Foam,  431
Fruit Soufflé,  299
growing seasons chart, 113
Oat and Egg White Frittata with 
Fruit,  13
osmosis and, 392
pectin in, 418
Pickle and Strawbery Relish,  129
Poached Pears,  210
Preserved Lemons,  387
sous vide cooking, 337–338
storage tips, 119–120, 186
sugar in, 68
Summer Watermelon and Feta 
Cheese Salad,  85
translucent, 317
whipper fizzy fruit, 314
frying pans, 45
FSIS (Food Safety and Inspection Ser -
vice), 172, 180, 325
functional fixedness, 6–7
fungiform papillae, 86
furanone, 97flavorings, 397–407
gelling agents, 418–428
mixtures, 379–381
politics of, 376
preservatives. See preserving foods
salt. See salt
sugar. See sugar
texture and, 412–413
thickeners, 408–417
This on, 390–392
Food Additives Amendment (1958), 
376
food allergies, 445–450
cooking around, 445–446
cooking for others and, 30
Lancaster on, 232
substitutions for, 446–450
Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
See FDA
foodborne illness. See food safety
Food Chemistry  (Belitz), 123, 390
food engineers, 412
Food Politics  (Nestle), 376
food pornography, 179
food preferences, 30
food safety
at-risk groups, 171, 184
bacteria and, 170–186
danger zone rule, 170–186, 325
drying foods, 353
experimentation and, 358–359
fish and, 177, 180, 183–184, 
330–331
food additives and, 376
foodborne illness and, 180
infused oils, 402
parasites and, 183–184
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
Powell on, 178–179
sous vide cooking and, 325–329
Food Safety and Inspection Service 
(FSIS), 172, 180, 325
food sensitivity, 30
forged blades (knives), 37
freeze-dried foods, 318
freezers, calibrating, 244–245
freezing
bacteria and, 186
berries, 365
breads, 265
dough, 288
fish, 183, 184, 331
gelled liquids, 349fixed function, 6–7
flash pickling, 317, 319–320
flash point (fats), 153
Flatbreads,  253
flavor and flavorings, 98–102, 397–399
about, 98–99
Civille on, 132–133
fats and oils, 148
inspiration by, 84
inspiration by exploration, 103–111
inspiration by seasonality, 112–124
inspiration, computational, 125–128
liquid smoke, 403–407
pleasure and, 87
regional/traditional method, 21
shopping for, 88
taste and smell producing, 56, 58
Wansink on, 101–102
flavor enhancers
about, 397
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
salt as, 16, 56, 65
Savage on, 16
seasoning with, 56
Flavornet, 95
floral odor, 93
flour
as food additive, 377
gluten in, 246–250
maturing process, 252
measuring, 50
milling, 252
Quick Pan Gravy,  413
weighing, 49
wheat allergies and, 246
Flying Food Group, 95
foams
cakes relying on, 295
cream whippers and, 313
egg white, 290
Foamed Scrambled Eggs,  315
from beer, 391
Fruit Juice Foam,  431
low pressure and, 318
pressure cooking and, 310
stabilizing, 429
table of colloid types, 380
food additives, 375–439
about, 376–377
buying, 378
colloids, 379–381
emulsifiers, 429–431
E numbers classification, 378–379
enzymes, 432–437Index 459guanylate, 76
gustatory sense. See taste (gustatory 
sense)
Gustavson, Carl, 100
H
hackers, 253
half-and-half, 192
Hard-Cooked Eggs, Easy-to-Peel,  193
hardware in the kitchen
about, 305
Arnold on, 358–359
high-heat cooking, 367–371
high-pressure situations, 306–316
liquid nitrogen, 183, 361–364
low-pressure tricks, 317–320
making molds, 340–346
Myhrvold on, 372–373
sous vide cooking, 207, 320–339
wet separations, 347–357
hard water, 240–241
Haugh, Raymond, 188
Haugh units, 188
healthy (cooking style), 9
heap fermentation, 435
heat gradient, 337
heat shields, 144, 147, 219
heat transfer
carryover and, 140
combined methods of, 145–146
conduction, 142, 145
convection, 143, 145
doneness and, 139–141
experimenting with sources, 
145–146
methods of, 141–146
oil and water, 142
pressure cooking and, 308
radiation, 144, 145, 186
sous vide cooking and, 322
temperature gradients, 139–141
time/temperature rule of thumb, 
136
helium, 142
hemicellulose, 205, 207, 321
Henry’s Law, 307
hepatitis A, 178
herbs
in butter, 401–402
Civille on, 132
drying, 352gliadin, 247–249, 254–255, 258
glucose
crystal formation inhibitor, 69
invertase enzyme and, 81
Maillard reaction and, 223, 309
sucrose inversion and, 221
glutamate (amino acid), 61, 76–77, 184
glutamic acid, 72, 76
glutamine, 436
glutathione, 263
gluten
choosing flour wisely, 246–250
elasticity of, 241
hard water and, 241–242
Lancaster on, 232
making your own, 254–255
managing formation, 247–250
tips for altitude, 238
wheat allergies and, 246
glutenin, 247–249, 254–255, 258
glyceride, 148, 154
glycerol, 148–150
glycogen, 162, 164
Goat Cheese, Baked, with Almonds and 
Honey,  31
Golden Corn Cake,  18
Google Books, 20, 442
Google Scholar search engine, 442
Gourmet Magazine,  103
grains
Congee, 23
cooking, 207, 309
gluten level of, 246–248
Lancaster on, 232
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
miraculin and, 71
granula, 12
GRAS (generally recognized as safe), 
376, 393
Greek cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
Greek-style Marinade,  62
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
Green Olives, Roasted,  31
Greenspan, Eric, 344
grilling
as radiant heat, 145
Grilled Summer Vegetables,  211
Grilled Sweet Potato Fries,  211
Grilled Vegetables,  211
vegetables, 211G
Gagnaire, Pierre, 391
Ganache Frosting, Chocolate Espresso,  
281–282
Garcia Effect, 100
Garcia, John, 100
garlic
Garlic Bread,  217
storage tips, 120
Winter White Bean and Garlic Soup,  
116
garlic presses, 48, 217
gastrointestinal distress, 171
Gazpacho Soup, Summertime,  117
geek thinking
defined, 6
Duncker’s Candle Problem, 6–7
functional fixedness and, 6–7
in kitchen, 7
learning how to cook and, 15
mental restructuring, 7
smart, 440–443
geek (venn diagram), 1
gelatin
about, 349
collagen and, 197, 232
cooking vegetables and, 205–206
foaming and, 313
improving mouthfeel, 418
gels and gelling agents, 418–428
agar, 423–425
carrageenan, 379, 421–422
classifying, 418
filtration and, 349
gelatin and, 197, 205
Gelled Milk with Iota and Kappa 
Carrageenan,  422
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
making, 420
making molds, 340
pectin and, 206, 419–420
sodium alginate, 426–427
starches, 205–212
table of colloid types, 380
typical composition, 411
generally recognized as safe (GRAS), 
376, 393
ghee, 153, 156
Gingerbread Cookies,  279
Ginger Syrup,  70
giving (cooking style), 9Index 460ion channels, 64
ions, defined, 383
iota carrageenan, 421, 422–423
IQF (individually quick frozen), 365
Iron Chef (tv show), 387
isinglass, 349
isoamyl acetate, 97
isotopomers, 243
Italian cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
Italian Meringue,  293
Italian Tomato Sauce,  107
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
J
Jackson, James, 12
Jacques Pépin’s New Complete Tech -
niques,  24
Japanese cuisine
dashi,  77
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
Japanese-style Brine,  62
Miso Soup,  77
preparing edamame, 78
savory taste and. See umami (taste)
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
Johnson, Samuel, 157
Journal of Agricultural and Food Chem -
istry,  390
Journal of Food Science,  390
Joy of Cooking,  18, 258
Jung, Carolyn, 387
K
kale
Crispy Oven Kale Chips,  353
storage tips, 120
Kamozawa, Aki, 315
kappa carrageenan, 421–422
Kayser, Eric, 261
Keller, Thomas, 16, 322
Kellogg, John, 12
Ketchup,  107
key temperatures in cooking, 148–233
85F/30C, 148–161
104F/40C, 138, 162–169
122F/50C, 138, 162–169
131F/55C, 138
136F/58C, 138
141F/61C, 187–194, 325I
IBM’s Chef Watson, 129
ice cream
Cocoa-Goldschläger Ice Cream,  364
Crème Anglaise in,  192
making with liquid nitrogen, 305, 
361–364
making with salt and ice, 394–395
S’more Ice Cream,  405
Sugar Cone Bowls,  342–343
Ikeda, Kikunae, 76
immersion blenders, 48, 51
Indian cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
Khichdi,  311
spicy/hot tastes, 59
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
individually quick frozen (IQF), 365
industrial tools. See commercial and 
industrial tools
infused oils, 401–402
ingredients
chemical similarity of, 126–128
choosing, 56
co-occurrence of, 125–126, 129
culinary mystery ingredient, 103
by culture, 111
flavor and, 56
inspiration by exploration, 103–111
inspiration by seasonality, 112–124
inspiration, computational, 125–128
isolating, 110
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
prepping, 11
at room temperature, 17
sifting dry, 275
using unfamiliar, 110
Walshin on, 110
weighing, 49–50
innovative (cooking style), 9, 21
inosinate, 76
inspiration
computational flavor, 125–128
by exploration, 103–111
by seasonality, 112–124
interfacial tension, 414, 429
intermolecular bond, 398–399
Internet Archive, 20
Internet Average Pancakes,  10
invertase, 81, 432Fresh Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
fresh versus dried, 99
Rosemary Mashed Potatoes,  212
Salt-Roasted Fish with Lemon and 
Herbs,  147
Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, and 
Cilantro Chicken,  28
storage tips, 119
substituting, 6
Tomato, Herb, and Squid Bruschetta,  
199
volatile compounds and, 97
hexanal, 97
hexenal, 97
hexyl acetate, 97
hierarchy of needs (Maslow), 14
high-heat cooking
about, 367–369
cooking high-heat pizza, 370–371
high-heat ovens and, 305, 370–371
high-pressure situations, 306–316
about, 306–307
cream whippers, 313–316
popping popcorn, 307
pressure cooking. See pressure 
cooking
history of food, 18–19
hold times, 172–173, 180, 325
Hollandaise Sauce,  108
homogenization process, 433
honey as preservative, 382
Hot Marshmallows,  415
hot spots (pots and pans), 46–47
hot (taste). See spicy/hot (taste)
hot-water-dip treatment, 174, 355
humidity
about, 307
affecting cooking, 17, 142, 250, 373
in ovens, 144, 237–238
yeast and, 237
Hungarian Sauce,  106
hydration energy, 395
hydrocolloids, 428
hydrogen, 72, 142, 243
hydrogenated fat, 151
hydrolysis, 197–198, 221–223
hydrophobic proteins, 189, 289Index 461Le Guide Culinaire  (Escoffier), 104
Leidenfrost effect, 365
lemons and lemon juice
balancing tastes with, 60
cleaning cutting boards, 44
as flavor enhancers, 56
Lemon Lentil Soup,  19
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
Lemons, Preserved,  387
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
Lentil Soup, Lemon,  19
Lersch, Martin, 428
lettuce and salad greens. See also  salad 
dishes
Springtime Lettuce Soup,  116
storage tips, 120
Leucippus, 58
lignin, 205
lime juice
bacteria and, 176
Clarified Lime Juice,  425
Lindley, Michael, 393
Lindt, Rodolphe, 161
line structure, 148–149
linoleic acid, 152
lipids, 398
liquid nitrogen, 361–364
about, 361–363
dangers of, 361
making dusts, 363
making ice cream, 305, 361–364
oxygen and, 361
parasites and, 183
liquid smoke, 403–407
Listeria monocytogenes
canning technique and, 389
count required, 171
lethality of, 179
pH and, 385
survival temperatures, 181
time between ingestion and symp -
toms, 178
listeriosis, 171
lithium, 64
local foods, 122–124
log reductions, 173
low-heat cooking. See sous vide cook -
ing
low-pressure tricks, 317–320. See 
also  sous vide cooking
lysine, 309, 436holding, 37
Lancaster on, 232
Raper on, 40–42
repurposing, 42
sharpening, 41–43
stamped blades, 37
types of, 37
Krugman, Paul, 441
Kurti, Nicholas, 390
L
labs (experiments)
A/B experiments, 21
baking soda reacting with itself, 
276–277
calibrating freezers, 244–245
calibrating ovens, 35–36
collagan protein, 204
differences between taste and 
smell, 57
finding perfect cookie, 226–227
food safety and, 358–359
genetic taste differences, 82–83
making ice cream with salt and ice, 
394–395
making liquid smoke, 406–407
making pectin, 420
making your own gluten, 254–255
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
sensing flavors, 130–131
separation via crystallization, 
356–357
sous vide cooking, 321–322
This on experimentation, 392
lactic acid, 72, 264
lactisole, 393
Lactobacillus,  73, 272, 328
Lahey, Jim, 260–261
Lancaster, Bridget, 231–233
lard, 152, 153, 311
Latin American cuisine, 63, 111
lattice energy, 395
lauric acid, 152
leaveners, 262–303
air bubbles and, 48, 238, 247
biological, 262–272
chemical, 17, 51–52, 207, 273–288
mechanical, 17, 48, 289–301
multiple, 297
Lebovitz, David, 302–303
lecithin, 313, 430–431
leeks, storage tips, 120150F/65.5C, 138
154F/68C, 138, 195–204
158F/70C, 138, 205–212
170F/77C, 138, 333
212F/100C, 138
310F/154C, 138, 213–220
325F/163C, 138
350F/175C, 138
356F/180C, 138, 221–230
375F/190C, 138
about, 148
Khichdi,  311
Kirshenbaum, Kent, 403, 405
kitchen equipment, 34–52. See 
also  hardware in the kitchen
bare minimum, 34, 48–49
calibrating ovens, 35–36
cutting boards, 44
garlic presses, 48
immersion blenders, 48, 51
kitchen scales, 49
kitchen shears, 48
knives, 37–43
Lancaster on, 232
Lebovitz on, 303
measuring cups and spoons, 51
mixers, 48, 51
mixing bowls, 48, 51
pots and pans, 45–47, 51–52
pressure cookers, 49
Ried on, 51–52
silicone spatulas, 48
strainers, 51
thermometers, 49
tongs, 48
usage decisions, 34
kitchen organization, 34–52
calibrating ovens, 35–36
Child on, 26
counter layout, 27
kitchen equipment, 34–52
Ried on, 51–52
kitchen scales, 49
kitchen shears, 48
kneading (mechanical agitation), 249, 
261
knives, 37–43
alloyed steels, 41
bacteria and, 41
basic skills, 37
“failure mode” , 37
forged blades, 37
heat treatment, 40–41Index 462key temperatures in cooking, 
162–169, 195–204
marinating, 165, 232
Oven-Cooked Barbecue Ribs,  405
Pork Chops, Stuffed with Roasted 
Poblano and Cheddar Cheese,  
66–67
pressure cooking, 309
Pulled Pork Under Pressure,  312
Quick Pan Gravy,  413
rigor mortis and, 162–163
Short Ribs, Slow-cooked,  203
Skirt Steak, Buttermilk-Marinated,  
167
sous vide cooking, 322, 327, 
332–336
Steak, Pan-Seared,  140
steaks, aging, 164, 165
Steak Tartare with Poached Egg,  174
storage tips, 186
temperatures for doneness, 166
tenderizing, 165
mechanical agitation (kneading), 249, 
261
mechanical filtration, 347–351
mechanical leaveners, 289–301
about, 289
egg whites. See egg whites
egg yolks. See egg yolks
steam, 236–238
whipped cream, 17, 300–301
medieval recipes, 20
melting point
of fats, 148–161
techniques to identify, 222
menthol, 79
menu planning for dinner parties, 30
meringues
about, 293
Chocolate Port Cake,  295
Coconut Macaroons,  294
French Meringue,  293
Italian Meringue,  293
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
Meringue Cookies,  294
methodical (cooking style), 9
methylcellulose, 414
metmyoglobin, 163, 183
metric, converting to, 11
milling flour, 252
Mindless Eating  (Wansink), 8, 101
Minestrone Soup,  106
Mints, Peppermint Chocolate,  81Velouté Sauce,  106
Venetian Sauce,  106
Vodka Sauce,  107
White Sauce,  105
White Wine and Cheese Sauce,  298
Marmalade, Citrus,  396
Mars, Forrest, Sr., 157
Mars, Frank C., 157
Marshmallows,  381
Marshmallows, Hot,  415
martinsite, 40
Mashed Potatoes, Rosemary,  212
Maslow, Abraham, 14
Mastering the Art of French Cooking  
(Child), 219
maturing flour, 252
Mayonnaise,  430–431
McFarlin, Patrick, 29
McGee, Harold
Baldwin on, 327
on salt-rising bread, 272
on solving food mysteries, 438–439
website, 359
on whisking egg whites, 291
mcmaster.com, 349
measurements
converting to metric, 11
error tolerances in, 258
pinch as, 11, 56, 65
Scoville scale, 80
“to taste” , 11
volume versus weight, 50
measuring cups and spoons, 51
Meatballs, Belgian,  185
meats
Beef Jerky,  322, 353–355
Beef Steak Tips,  335
Belgian Meatballs,  185
Brisket, 48-Hour,  336
Butterflied Roast Chicken,  218–219
Chicken Kiev,  436
Chicken, Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, 
and Cilantro,  28
collagen in, 195–204
cutting boards and, 44
dry aging, 165
Duck Confit,  200–201
environmentally sound, 115
food safety and, 171–172, 182–183, 
186, 200, 355
heat transfer and doneness, 
139–141
heat transfer methods, 142M
Mac ‘n Cheese,  105
Madison, Deborah, 29
magnesium in water, 240–241, 250
magnesium sulfate, 64, 383
magnetic separation, 348
Maillard, Louis Camille, 213
Maillard reaction
about, 136
liquid water and, 237
pressure cooking and, 309
temperature for, 138, 213–220
main dishes. See fish and seafood; 
meats; salad dishes; vegetar -
ian main dishes
maker’s gratification, 19
malic acid, 72
Maltaise Sauce,  108
maltodextrin, 223, 416–417
marinades and sauces
Albufera Sauce,  106
Aurora Sauce,  106
Bayou Sauce,  105
Béarnaise Sauce,  108
Béchamel Sauce,  105
Bercy Sauce,  106
Bordelaise Sauce,  109
Brown Sauce,  109
Buttermilk-Marinated Skirt Steak,  
167
Caramel Sauces, Wet and Dry,  
228–229
Diable Sauce,  109
Dijon Sauce,  108
Espagnole Sauce,  109
French cuisine and, 104
Greek-style Marinade,  62
Hollandaise Sauce,  108
Hungarian Sauce,  106
Ketchup,  107
Maltaise Sauce,  108
marinating meats, 165, 232
Mornay Sauce,  105
Mustard Sauce,  105
Noisette Sauce,  108
Pepper Sauce,  109
Piquante Sauce,  109
Poivrade Sauce,  109
Poulette Sauce,  106
Quick Pan Gravy,  413
Sauce Robert,  109
Tomato Sauce,  107Index 463oleic acid
in cocoa butter, 159
example of, 150–151
fatty acid profile, 152
melting point, 151, 152, 154
smoke point, 153
olfactory fatigue, 92
olfactory sense. See smell (olfactory 
sense)
olive oil
fatty acid profile, 152
key temperatures for, 153
oleic acid and, 151
Olive Oil Poached Salmon,  168
Olives, Roasted Green,  31
omega-3 fatty acid, 151
omega-6 fatty acid, 151
onions
crying from, 39
One-Hour French Onion Soup,  
38–39
Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red 
Onions,  230
storage tips, 120
oral irritation, 56, 61, 79
Orange, Brownies in an,  32
order of operations in recipes, 11
O’Reilly, Tim, 288
Oreo Cookies,  377
organic foods, 122–124
organoleptic tests, 80
orthonasal olfaction, 98
Oskay, Windell, 341
osmazome, 76
osmosis in food, 384, 386, 392
ovalbumin, 189, 190
oven overclocking, 371
ovens
calibrating, 35
calibrating using sugar, 36
Crispy Oven Kale Chips,  353
high-heat, 305, 370–371
humidity and, 144, 237–238
improving recovery time, 35
regulating heat, 17, 35
tips for altitude, 238
oven spring, 237
ovomucin, 193
ovotransferrin, 189Myhrvold, Nathan, 372–373
myofibrillar proteins, 164–166
myoglobin, 163, 183
myosin
about, 164
denaturing, 138, 164–165, 334
sous vide cooking and, 321, 334
myristic acid, 152, 154
N
National Organic Program (NOP), 122
nebulin, 164
nerd (venn diagram), 1
Nestle, Marion, 376
neutralizing odors
cutting boards, 44
off-smelling amino compounds, 56
nitrite, 384
nitrous oxide, 313
Noisette Sauce,  108
No-Knead Bread,  261
No-Knead Pizza Dough,  271–272
nonpolar molecules, 398
nonstarch polysaccharides, 254
nonstick pans, 45
nootkatone, 97
NOP (National Organic Program), 122
norovirus, 175
North African cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
rice porridge, 22
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
NSRDEC, 412
nut allergies, 449
O
oats
Oat and Egg White Frittata with 
Fruit,  13
steel-cut, 12
odor affect, 87
odorants, 89, 92, 95
oils
bacteria and, 175
egg whites and, 290
heat transfer rate, 142
infused, 401–402
key temperatures in cooking, 
148–161
pressure frying and, 310–311
sous vide cooking and, 322miracle berries, 71
miraculin, 71
mise en place  technique, 11
Miso Soup,  77
mixers, 48, 51
mixing bowls, 48, 51
mixtures, 379–381
Mock Apple Pie,  96
modernist cuisine
defined, 372
Myhrvold on, 372–373
moist heat methods, 141–142
moisture
FAT TOM acronym, 175, 177, 384
seized chocolate and, 159
mold making, 340–346
molds
food safety and, 170
Wolfe on, 434–435
molecular conformation, 138
molecular gastronomy
defined, 372
This on, 390–392
molecules, 383, 398, 401
monellin (protein), 69
monocalcium phosphate, 286
monosaccharides, 283
monosodium glutamate (MSG), 76–78, 
383, 395, 397
monounsaturated fats, 150
Monster Kitchen  (TV show), 344
Monterey Bay Aquarium, 115
Mornay Sauce, 105
mother dough, 272
Mousse, Chocolate,  301, 313, 315
Mozzarella cheese
Fresh Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
making, 433
Mozzarella Spheres,  427
MSG (monosodium glutamate), 76–78, 
383, 395, 397
Munroe, Randall, 50
mushrooms
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
sautéeing, 359
savory taste in, 76
musky odor, 93
Mussels, Pan-Seared, with Butter and 
Shallots,  67
Mustard Sauce,  105Index 464picric acid, 72
pies
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
Mock Apple Pie,  96–97
Pie Dough,  258–259
pinch as measurement, 11, 56, 65
pinhead oats, 12
Piquante Sauce, 109
Pistachio Chocolate Baklava,  256
pizza, 267–271
high-heat ovens and, 305, 370–371
No-Knead Pizza Dough,  271
par-baking, 268
Varasano on, 269–270
Yeast-Free Pizza Dough,  286
pizza stones, 35, 144, 265
plasmolysis, 386
plaster of Paris, 341
plasticity of fat, 154
plastic storage bags, 323
plating food, 32–33
plums, storage tips, 119
1-p-methene-8-thiol, 97
poaching. See also  sous vide cooking
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326
Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and 
Lardons,  75
Olive Oil Poached Salmon,  168
Poached Eggs,  193
Poached Pears,  210
Steak Tartare with Poached Egg,  174
Poivrade Sauce,  109
polar molecules, 398, 401
polysaccharides, 205, 416, 423
polyunsaturated fats, 150, 151
pomegranate, seperating seeds out 
of, 114
Popovers,  239
popping popcorn, 307
poppy seed bagels, 16
pork
pressure cooking, 309
Pulled Pork Under Pressure,  312
Roasted Poblano and Cheddar 
Cheese Stuffed Pork Chops,  
66–67
temperatures for doneness, 166
Portobello Mushroom, Fennel, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
postmortem proteolysis, 162
potassium bicarbonate, 273eggs and, 329
fish and, 183, 328
food safety and, 173, 183
hold times and, 180
sous vide cooking and, 325, 
329–330, 332
vacuum sealing and, 320
Pasteur, Louis, 262
pastry chefs, 221–223, 302–303
A Pattern Language  (Alexander), 27
peaches, storage tips, 119
peanut allergies, 449
Pears, Poached,  210
Peas à la Française,  25
pectin
about, 206, 419
improving mouthfeel, 418
making, 420
making jam, 419
sous vide cooking and, 321
starchy vegetables and, 206
Penicillium camemberti,  435
Penicillium nalgiovense,  435
Penne alla Vodka,  107
Pépin, Jacques, 24–25
Peppermint Chocolate Mints,  81
pepperminty odor, 93
Pepper Sauce,  109
perfluoroocanoic acid (PFOA), 45
Perfumer’s Compendium  (Allured), 93
Peshardt, William, 426
PFOA (perfluoroocanoic acid), 45
phase diagrams, 306, 308
phase transitions, 136, 152, 306
phenylthiocarbamide (PTC), 61
pH scale
about, 273–274
adjusting water for baking, 241–242, 
250
Dutching process and, 157
eggs and, 188–189, 291
food preservation and, 384
meat and, 162
phyllo dough
about, 247
Pistachio Chocolate Baklava,  256
pickles
contaminated after cooking, 389
flash pickling, 317, 319–320
Pickle and Strawbery Relish,  129
Pickles, Bread-and-Butter Quick,  
388–389oxygen
about, 243
bacterial growth and, 175
FAT TOM acronym, 175
liquid nitrogen and, 361
yeast and, 266
oxymyoglobin, 163, 183
oyster knife, 40
P
palate cleansers, 60
palmitic acid
in butter, 154
in cocoa butter, 159
example of, 150
fatty acid profile, 152
pancakes
Buttermilk Pancakes,  278
cream whippers and, 313
Crepes,  251
Internet Average Pancakes,  10
pan searing
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
Pan-Seared Mussels with Butter and 
Shallots,  67
Pan-Seared Steak,  140
Slow-cooked Short Ribs,  203
papain (enzyme), 165, 198
Papin, Denis, 309
parasites
foodborne illnesses and, 183–184
freezing, 175, 183, 328
survival temperatures, 170
par-baking pizza, 268–269
paring knife, 37
Parkerson, Stephen, 95
parma torte, 20
Parmesan cheese
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad, 114
Parmesan, Fennel, and Portobello 
Mushroom Salad, 114
pasta dishes
Duck Confit in,  202
Mac ‘n Cheese,  105
Minestrone Soup,  106
Penne alla Vodka,  107
pressure cookers and, 311
pasteurization
bacteria and, 186
defined, 173Index 465recipes
adapting, 20–21
brief history of, 18–19
Civille on, 133
medieval, 20
order of operations in, 11
Pépin on, 25
reading thoroughly, 11
on Twitter, 19
recovery time
for ovens, 35
for pans, 140
recursion. See recursion.
Red Onions, Roasted Glazed Carrots 
with,  230
reducing sugars, 213
regional/traditional method (flavor 
combinations), 21
Relish, Pickle and Strawberry,  129
rennet, 432
reproduction stage (yeast), 266
respiration stage (yeast), 266
retronasal olfaction, 98
reverse spherification, 427
rice
about, 22
Congee,  22
cooking, 207
food safety and, 177
gluten sensitivies and, 246
Khichdi,  311
rice cookers, 146, 237
rice vinegar, 177
rigor mortis, 162–163, 164
Riley, Addison, 17
rising agents. See leaveners
roasting
Butterflied Roast Chicken,  218–219
Oven-Roasted Eggs,  194
Roasted Beet Salad,  121
Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red 
Onions,  230
Roasted Green Olives,  31
Roasted Poblano and Cheddar 
Cheese Stuffed Pork Chops,  
66–67
Salt-Roasted Fish with Lemon and 
Herbs,  147
vegetables, 232
Roca, Joan, 329
rolled oats, 12
Rombauer, Irma, 18proofing, defined, 263
PROP (propylthiouracil), 61
propylthiouracil (PROP), 61
protein denaturation
collagen, 148, 165, 195–204, 327
defined, 138
in eggs, 189–191
sous vide cooking and, 320
temperature for, 138, 162–169
yogurt and, 73
proteins
about, 138
adding sweet taste, 69, 71
controlling gluten formation, 248
FAT TOM acronym and, 175
in fish and meats, 162–169
food allergies and, 445
hydrophobic, 189
in wheat flour, 254
PTC (phenylthiocarbamide), 61
Puff Pastry Squares or Twists,  31
Pulled Pork Under Pressure,  312–313
Pumpkin Cake,  287
punching down dough, 264
pungent/hot (taste), 58–59
pungent odor, 93
putrid odor, 93
PyroCeram, 371
pyrolysis, 404
Q
quenching (steel), 41
Quick Pan Gravy,  413
quinine, 74
Quinn’s Crème Brûlée,  368
quinoa
gluten sensitivies and, 246
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
R
radiation (heat transfer), 144, 145, 186
Raper, Buck, 40–42
raspberries, storage tips, 120
rate of reaction
evaporation and, 353
perfect cookie experiment, 226–227
pressure cooking and, 309
sous vide cooking and, 321
temperature and, 136–137, 148, 172potassium bitartrate, 96
potassium chloride, 64
potatoes
cooking, 206
cooking in dishwasher, 326
food safety and, 178
Rosemary Mashed Potatoes,  212
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
storage tips, 120
pots and pans, 45–47
acidity in foods and, 45, 47
hot spots, 46–47
organizing, 26
pan searing and, 169
recovery time for, 140
thermal conductivity of, 46–47, 142
types of, 45
Poulette Sauce,  106
poultry. See meats
pour point (fats), 153
Powdered Brown Butter,  417
Powell, Doug, 178–179
Pralus, George, 320
prepping ingredients, 11
presentation and plating food, 32–33, 
102, 121
preserving foods
Bread-and-Butter Quick Pickles,  
388–389
Candied Orange Rind,  396
Citrus Marmalade,  396
dehydration, 352–353
osmosis and, 386
Preserved Lemons,  387
Salmon Gravlax,  385
with salt, 382–389
with sugar, 384
pressure cooking, 308–312
about, 49, 141, 306, 308–309
collagen and, 195
convention method and, 145
cream whippers and, 314
Khichdi,  311
Maillard reaction and, 215
pros and cons, 309–310
Pulled Pork Under Pressure,  312
tips and tricks, 310–311
pressure frying, 310
probe thermometers, digital, 35, 49, 
183, 324
produce. See vegetables
Project Gutenberg, 20Index 466seafood. See fish and seafood
Seafood Watch, 115
searing
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
heat transfer in, 145
Maillard reaction and, 214
Pan-Seared Mussels with Butter and 
Shallots,  67
Pan-Seared Steak,  140
Seared Scallops,  220
sea salt, 65, 389
seasonality
growing seasons charts, 112–113
inspiration by, 112–124
understanding, 88
seaweed, 76
sedimentation, 266, 351
Seeded Crackers,  253
Seitan, Savory Baked, with Spicy String 
Beans,  257
seized chocolate, 159
sensory analysis, 84
serving bowls, food as, 32
Sesame Seeds, Sautéed Greens with,  
209
sharpening knives, 41–43
shear thinning, 409
shortening, 153
Short Ribs, Slow-cooked,  203
Shrimp Scampi, Lemony Quinoa and 
Asparagus with,  53
side dishes. See appetizers and sides
silicone rubber molds, 341, 344
silicone spatulas, 48
silverskin, 195
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
Skirt Steak, Buttermilk-Marinated,  167
Slim by Design  (Wansink), 101
Slow-cooked Short Ribs,  203
slow cookers, 324, 333
smart (venn diagram), 1
smell (olfactory sense), 89–97
about, 89–91
age-related differences, 92
air pressure impact on, 95
chemicals of common aromas, 97
Civille on, 132–133
crossover, 92
defined, 56, 89
describing, 93–95
difference between taste and, 57
experimenting with flavors, 
130–131Lancaster on, 232
lethal dose, 382
Maillard reaction and, 214
making ice cream with, 394–395
neutralizing bitterness, 56
osmosis and, 386
poaching eggs and, 193
as preservative, 382–385
Preserved Lemons,  387
Salmon Gravlax,  385
Salt-Roasted Fish with Lemon and 
Herbs,  147
taste receptors and, 58–59
toxicity of, 64
salt-rising bread, 272
salt roasting, 147
salt water, calibrating freezers using, 
244–245
salty (taste)
about, 58–59, 64–65
adjusting seasonings, 65
cravings for, 64
masking bitterness, 74
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
Sanders, Harland, 310
Santoku knife, 37
sarcoplasmic proteins, 163
saturated fats, 150
sauce Béarnaise syndrome, 100
saucepans, 45
sauces. See marinades and sauces
sautéeing
cooking tips, 207
mushrooms, 359
Sautéed Greens with Sesame Seeds,  
209
sauté pans, 51
Savage, Adam, 16–17
Savage, Riley, 17
savory (taste). See umami (taste)
scales, digital weight, 258
scallops
Bacon-Wrapped Scallops,  437
Scallop Ceviche,  176
Seared Scallops,  220
SC Johnson, 323
Scones,  288
Scoville scale, 80
Scoville, Wilber, 80
scrambled eggs
Scrambled Eggs, Foamed,  315
Scrambled Eggs, Slow,  194
Scully, Eleanor and Terence, 20root vegetables, cooking, 206
Rosemary Mashed Potatoes,  212
rotovaps (rotary evaporators), 358–360
Rozin, Paul, 98
Ruhlman, Michael, 303
S
saccharides, 254
Saccharomyces cerevisiae,  262
Saccharomyces pastorianus,  262
safflower oil, 152, 153
salad dishes
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
Fresh Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
Frisée Salad with Poached Eggs and 
Lardons,  75
Roasted Beet Salad,  121
Salade Lyonnaise,  75
Summer Watermelon and Feta 
Cheese Salad,  85
salmon
cooking in dishwasher, 326
Salmon Gravlax,  385
Salmon Poached in Olive Oil,  168
Salmonella
about, 172, 180
count required, 179
cutting boards and, 44
die off temperatures, 329
in eggs, 174, 191, 293, 329
in meats, 186, 355
on potatoes, 178
rates of reproduction, 171
salt concentrations and, 386
survival temperatures, 172–173
time between ingestion and symp -
toms, 178
USDA guidelines and, 171
salt
adjusting for water hardness, 241
balancing tastes with, 60
boiling point of water and, 238, 242, 
306
in brines, 232
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
as flavor enhancer, 16, 56, 65
as food additive, 376
food safety and, 386
gluten formation and, 250
as heat shield, 147Index 467starches
breaking down in vegetables, 
205–212
caramelization and, 223
Lemon Meringue Pie,  411
thickeners, 408–417
in wheat flour, 254
steaks
aging, 164, 165
Beef Steak Tips,  335
Buttermilk-Marinated Skirt Steak,  
167
Pan-Seared Steak,  140
salt brine for, 232
Steak Tartare with Poached Egg,  174
testing tenderness, 16
steam
cooking eggs, 193
heat transfer and, 142
as mechanical leavener, 236–238
as phase transition, 136
Popovers,  239
pressure cookers and, 311
Quick-Steamed Asparagus,  208
tips for altitude, 238
steamers, 236, 237
stearic acid, 151, 159
steel-cut oats, 12
steel (knives), 37
sterilization, 173, 320
stevioside compound family, 69
Stewart, Jon, 179
Stewart, Martha, 258
stick blenders, 48
stirring versus whisking, 292
stockpots, 45
stocks
Basic White Stock,  350
clarifying, 349
drip-thawing, 351
Maillard reactions and, 215
making in pressure cookers, 311
savory taste and, 76–77
Stokes’ Law, 317, 318
storage tips
for butter, 155
for perishable foods, 119–120, 186
for shelf stable food, 175
strainers, 51
strawberries
Pickle and Strawbery Relish,  129
storage tips, 120eggs and, 320–322, 329
fish and seafood, 329–331
flash pickling, 317, 319–320
food safety and, 325–329
fruits, 337–338
hardware requirements, 323
making a sous vide setup, 324
meats, 334–336
pasteurization and, 325, 329–330, 
332
prepackaged foods, 331
root vegetables, 207
slow cookers versus, 333
vacuum packers, 323
vacuum sealers, 318–320, 323
vegetables, 337–338
Sous Vide Cuisine (Roca), 329
Southeast Asian cuisine, 63, 111
soy allergies, 449
soy lecithin, 377
Spanish cuisine
flavorful ingredients by culture, 111
Gazpacho,  117
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
spatulas, silicone, 48
specific heat, 46–47
spherification technique, 418, 426–427
spices
blooming in, 399
Civille on, 132–133
Cumin and Salt Seared Tuna,  169
Khichdi,  311
Smoked Paprika, Chickpea, and 
Cilantro Chicken,  28
spicy/hot (taste)
about, 58–59, 79–80
adjusting seasonings, 80
genetic taste differences, 61
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
spilanthol, 79
spores, 177, 181, 389, 435
squid
sous vide cooking and, 329
Tomato, Herb, and Squid Bruschetta, 
199
stability (egg white foams), 290
stainless steel bowls, 291–292
stainless steel knives, 41
stainless steel pans, 169
stamped blades (knives), 37
Staphylococcus,  386genetic differences and, 91
olfactory fatigue, 92
physiology of smell and taste, 92
taste and, 86–87, 101
smoke point (fats), 153
S’more Ice Cream,  405
Snickerdoodles, Cinnamon,  225
socially clueless (venn diagram), 1
sodium alginate, 426–427
sodium aluminum sulfate, 286
sodium bicarbonate. See baking soda
sodium carbonate, 241
sodium chloride. See salt
sodium ion, 64–65
sodium laurel sulfate, 60
soft water, 240–242
solvents, 360, 386, 397–398
soup recipes
Basic White Stock,  350
broths, 31, 76, 349
Butternut Squash Soup,  110
Butternut Squash Soup, Fall,  118
consommés, 349, 351
French Onion Soup, One-Hour,  
38–39
Gazpacho Soup,  117
Lemon Lentil Soup,  19
Minestrone Soup,  106
Miso Soup,  77
Springtime Lettuce Soup,  116
stocks for. See stocks
Winter White Bean and Garlic Soup,  
116
Sour Cream, Homemade,  155
Sourdough Starter,  272
sour (taste)
about, 58–59, 72
adjusting seasonings, 72
confusing with bitter taste, 74
masking, 65, 71
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
sous vide cooking, 320–339
about, 320–322
bacteria and, 320, 322, 325
Baldwin on, 327–329
Beef Steak Tips,  335
Brisket, 48-Hour,  336
chicken and other poultry, 332–333
chocolate, 339
cooking in dishwasher, 326
Dishwasher Poached Apples,  326Index 468taste perversion, 60, 71
taste sensitivity, 59
temperature and, 60–61, 68
umami. See umami (taste)
taste perversion, 60, 71
taste sensitivity, 59
tautomers, 68
temperature controllers, 324
temperature gradients, 139–141, 143
temperature(s). See also  key tempera -
tures in cooking
for baking reactions, 138
boiling point of water, 238, 242, 306
for caramelization, 138, 221–230
of common reactions, 138
cooking at extreme, 305, 367–371
familiarizing feel of, 34
FAT TOM acronym, 175
for Maillard reaction, 138, 213–220
for making chocolate, 158
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
for protein denaturation, 138, 
162–169
rate of reaction and, 136–137, 148, 
172
sous vide cooking and, 320–321, 
327
taste and, 60–61, 68
time and, 135–233
wet heat methods, 143
tempering chocolate, 157–160, 339
tenderizing meats, 165
testing
for doneness, 138, 140
homemade jam, 419
positive for drugs, 16
Savage on, 16–17
steak tenderness, 16
Texas A&M University, 362
texture, food, 165, 322, 412–413
Thai cooking, 80
Theobroma cacao  plant, 157, 159
thermal conductivity of metals, 46–47, 
142
thermal death time, 172
thermal energy, 46–47
thermal hydrolysis, 197
thermal radiation, 35
thermocouples, 324
thermo-grilling, 414
thermometers
digital probe, 35, 49, 183, 324
tempering chocolate, 158sweet (taste)
about, 58–59, 68
adjusting seasonings, 69
artichokes and, 71
flavor preferences, 60
masking bitterness, 74
sodium ion and, 64–65
taste adaptation and, 60
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
temperature and, 61
Swiss chard, 120
Syrup, Ginger,  70
T
Tacos (Fish), with Pickle and Strawberry 
Relish,  129
Talbot, Alex, 315
tannic acid, 423
tapeworms, 183
tartaric acid, 286
tart (taste). See sour (taste)
tastants, 58, 76
taste adaptation, 60
taste aversions, 100
taste buds, 58
taste (gustatory sense), 58–88
adjusting seasonings, 60
air pressure impact on, 95
balancing, 59–60
Bartoshuk on, 86–87
bitter. See bitter (taste)
Civille on, 132–133
cultural upbringing and, 60, 74
defined, 56
difference between smell and, 57
envionmental factors and, 60–61
experimenting with flavors, 
130–131
flavor preferences, 60
genetic differences and, 61, 82–83
mixing tastes, 87
organic, local, conventional foods, 
122–123
physiology of smell and taste, 61–62
pleasure and, 86–87
salty. See salty (taste)
savory. See umami (taste)
smell and, 86–87, 101
sour. See sour (taste)
spicy/hot. See spicy/hot (taste)
sweet. See sweet (taste)
taste adaptation, 60Streptococcus thermophiles,  73
Streptomyces mobaraensis,  436
stromal proteins, 164–165
structural proteins, 164–165, 195
sublimation, 318, 352
substance P , 79
success, definition of, 15
sucrose
about, 68–69
as food additive, 376
hydrolysis and, 221–223
invertase and, 81, 432
latent heat of, 229
sucrose inversion, 221
sugar(s)
baking with yeast and, 241–242
Bread-and-Butter Quick Pickles,  
388–389
calibrating oven using, 36
Candied Orange Rind,  396
caramelization and, 138, 221
in cereals, 12
chocolate and, 157
Citrus Marmalade,  396
egg whites and, 291
as flavor enhancers, 56
as food additives, 376
gluten formation and, 249
Maillard reaction and, 213
Marshmallows,  381
Marshmallows, Hot,  415
nutritional labels on, 69
osmosis and, 386
pectin and, 418
as preservatives, 384
reducing, 213
removing taste of, 393
Sugar Cone Bowls for Ice Cream,  
342–343
Sugar Cookies,  224–225
Sugar Swizzle Sticks,  356–357
taste receptors and, 58, 68–69
thermally decomposing, 221
Super Envision product, 393
supertasting, 86
suprathreshold, 59
surface contamination, 169, 182, 184
suspensions, 380
Sweet Potato Fries, Grilled,  211Index 469Grilled Summer Vegetables,  211
Grilled Sweet Potato Fries,  211
Grilled Vegetables,  211
grilling, 117, 211
growing seasons chart, 113
Kale Chips, Crispy Oven,  353
key temperatures for cooking, 
205–212
Lemony Quinoa and Asparagus with 
Shrimp Scampi,  53
Lettuce Soup, Springtime,  116
Minestrone Soup,  106
Peas à la Française,  25
pressure cooking, 311
Roasted Beet Salad,  121
Roasted Glazed Carrots with Red 
Onions,  230
roasting, 232
Rosemary Mashed Potatoes,  212
Sautéed Greens with Sesame Seeds,  
209
sautéeing mushrooms, 359
Skillet-Fried Potatoes,  216
sous vide cooking, 337–338
starch levels in, 205–212
storage tips, 119–120, 186
tomatoes, peeling, 117
vegetarian main dishes. See also  salad 
dishes
Khichdi,  311
Lancaster on, 232
Mac ‘n Cheese,  105
Penne alla Vodka,  107
Seitan, Savory Baked, with Spicy 
String Beans , 257
Velouté Sauce,  106
Venetian Sauce,  106
Vibrio cholerae,  176, 177
Vibrio vulnificus,  180, 184
vinegar. See also  acetic acid
baking soda and, 274, 276
as flavor enhancer, 16
hard water and, 240–241
poaching eggs and, 193
as preservative, 382
viruses, 170, 175
viscosity of dough, 249
vital wheat gluten, 257
vitamin C, 72
Vodka Sauce,  107
volatile compounds, 56, 89–91, 314
volume versus weight (measurement), 
50U
umami (taste)
about, 58–59, 76–78
adjusting seasonings, 78
flavor preferences, 60
genetic taste differences, 61
Seitan, Savory Baked, with Spicy 
String Beans,  257
tasty ingredients by culture, 63
Underwriters Laboratories, 308
United Nations, 378
unit of measurement. See measure -
ments
unsaturated fats, 150
UPSIT test, 131
USDA (United States Department of 
Agriculture)
Food Safety and Inspection Service, 
172, 180, 325
food safety recommendations, 172, 
180
on refrigerator pickles, 389
testing tenderness of steak, 16
V
vacuum systems. See also  sous vide 
cooking
about, 317
low-pressure tricks, 317–318
vacuum packers, 323
vacuum sealers, 318–320, 323
vadouvan, 110
Vanilla Custard,  192
Vanilla Extract,  400
vanillin, as food additive, 91, 92, 377
Varasano, Jeff, 269–270
vegemite, 77
vegetables
artichokes, cooking, 70
Asparagus, Quick-Steamed,  208
Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
Belgian Endive, Broiled,  75
Butternut Squash Soup, Fall,  118
Butternut Squash Soup, Vadouvan,  
110
cooking approaches, 207
environmentally sound, 115
Fennel, Portobello Mushroom, and 
Parmesan Salad,  114
food safety and, 179, 182, 200
Gazpacho Soup, Summertime,  117thermoreversibility, 414
thickeners, 408–417
about, 408–409
arrowroot, 409–411
cornstarch, 409–411
maltodextrin, 416–417
methylcellulose, 414
This, Hervé, 390–392
thixotropy, 409
3D printing, 340
time and temperature, 135–233. See 
also  chemical reactions
about, 136–138
Duck Confit  and, 200
FSIS guidelines, 180
heat transfer, 139–141
as key variables in cooking, 305
Potter’s kitchen tips, 440
sous vide cooking and, 321, 327
time (FAT TOM acronym), 175
Tiramisu,  19
titin, 164
tomatoes
analyzing country of origin, 243
Fresh Basil, Tomato, and Mozzarella 
Salad,  114
peeling, 117
savory taste in, 76
storage tips, 119
Tomato, Herb, and Squid Bruschetta,  
199
Tomato Sauce,  107
tongs, 48
Top Chef  (tv show), 25
toxins
bacteria and, 173
Botox and, 175
food producers and, 170
sous vide cooking and, 325
trans fats, 151
transglutaminase, 436–437
tree nut allergies, 449
trichinosis, 67
trichomoniasis,  183
triglycerides
about, 148
in cocoa butters, 159
possible crystalline structures, 150
tempering chocolate and, 157
Tuna, Cumin and Salt Seared,  169
Turkish cuisine, 63, 111
Twitter recipes, 19Index 470wine
cooking with, 99
describing smells, 93
filtering with isinglass, 349
pairing difficulty with artichokes, 71
White Wine and Cheese Sauce,  
298–299
Zabaglione,  298–299
Winkel, Kristi, 446
Wolfe, Benjamin, 434–435
Wolfram|Alpha, 11
wood, autoignition point, 153
World Health Organization, 69, 378
Y
yeast, 262–271
about, 262
in beverages, 262
in breads, 264–268
checking, 263
humidity and, 237
stages in cooking, 266
tips for altitude, 238
water hardness and, 241
water pH level and, 241–242
Yeast Waffles,  267
Yeast-Free Pizza Dough,  286
Yogurt, Homemade,  73
Z
Zabaglione,  298
zymase (enzyme), 267wet separations, 347–357
about, 347–348
centrifuges in the kitchen, 351–352, 
359
crystallization, 356–357
distillation, 360
drying, 352–353
mechanical filtration, 347–351
rotovaps, 360
Sugar Swizzle Sticks,  356–357
What to Eat  (Nestle), 376
What We Eat When We Eat Alone  (Madi -
son), 29
wheat allergies, 246, 450
wheat gluten, 248
whetstones, 43
whipped cream, 300–301
about, 300
Chantilly Cream,  301
controlling ingredients for, 313
cream whippers, 313–316
making, 17, 301
as mechanical leavener, 300–301
whisks, 292
White Bean and Garlic Soup,  116
white chocolate, 160
White Sauce,  105
White Wine and Cheese Sauce,  298
Wiechmann, Tim, 121
wild fermentation method, 272W
Waffles, Yeast,  267
Walshin, Lydia, 110
Wansink, Brian, 8, 101–102
water baths. See sous vide cooking
water chemistry
air, hot air, and power of steam, 
236–238
analyzing, 243
baking and, 240–242
boiling point of water, 238, 242, 306, 
308–309
calibrating freezers, 244–245
egg white stability, 291
error tolerances in baking, 258–259
freezing point of water, 244–245, 
306
gluten formation and, 250
heat transfer rate, 142
minerals in water, 240–241
sous vide cooking. See sous vide 
cooking
tips for altitude, 238
water as solvent, 398
water in butter, 154
water hardness, 240–241
Watermelon and Feta Cheese Salad,  85
Waters, Alice, 302
weighing ingredients, 49–50
weight scales, digital, 258
wet heat methods, 141–142I extend my thanks to my good friends Mark Lewis, Aaron Double, and Paula Huston. 
Mark suffered through the first versions of both the food and the chapters and provided 
invaluable feedback on both, Aaron spent too much time turning my sketches into many 
of the charts that appear throughout the book, and Paula lent me her ear and culinary 
thoughts in enumerable ways.
Quinn Norton helped me in more ways than one, from shoving a bowl of congee (see page 
22) under my nose while I was writing to showing me how to give interviews and text 
voice. Barbara Vail and Matt Kiggins dug up research papers on everything from proteins to 
average weight gains during the holidays (about 0.5 lbs / 0.2 kg—not much, but it turns out 
we tend to not lose it the following spring). For the second edition, both Grace Cheng and 
Steven O’Malley (L!) assisted in reviewing the text. 
I’m grateful in ways that I don’t know how to express to Marlowe Shaeffer, Laurel Ruma, 
Brian Sawyer, Edie Freedman, Ron Bilodeau, and all the team at O’Reilly who believed in me 
and made the book happen. (Marlowe: I’m sorry I had you crack all those eggs!)
And of course, thanks to my parents for being so supportive and encouraging. I promise to 
not splatter duck fat on the ceiling next time I’m home.Acknowledgments
   471Jeff Potter  is curious about the science of food and loves finding answers to why 
ingredients and recipes work the way they do. By bringing science to food-minded people 
and food to science-minded people, he blends genres to educate the public about how to 
master the kitchen. He’s been featured in USA Today  and the Washington Post , has appeared 
on the Today Show  and CNN, and is a regular guest on public radio’s Science Friday .
When not in the kitchen cooking with friends, Jeff works with organizations and startups, 
building the technology behind their products. He studied computer science and visual art 
at Brown University. 
He can be found online at http://www.jeffpotter.org . About the Author
   473