4Wrappers and Binders
Wrappers  are edible containers that line the wells of the muffin pan. They help ensure the smoot h 
removal of the food while also playing an important role in the flavor of the dish. Wrappers can be 
placed open in the wells of the muffin pan, creating a cup or folded in, encasing the filli ng. If you flip the 
muffin pan over, wrappers can also be placed around the bottoms of the wells, crea ting edible dishes to 
hold delicious ingredients. Wrappers are not only impressive looking but fu nctional as well. 
Here is a list of my favorite and most used wrappers:
Bacon/Prosciutto
(Because I believe everything should be wrapped in bacon)
Puff Pastry
Phyllo
Biscuit Dough
Croissant Dough
Pizza Dough
Empanada Dough
Pie Crust
W onton/Egg Roll Wrappers
T ortillas
Wa ffl e s
Noodles
Bread
Root V egetables
(Thinly sliced and overlapped)
Binders  are generally used when the dish has no wrapper. The most common binder used is egg. Eggs 
allow the dish to hold its shape while also giving it a fluffy, light texture. Anot her common binder is 
potatoes, or more specifically, the starch in potatoes. When cooked, th e potatoes release the starch, 
which allows the dish to firm up and be removed easily from the pan. Just make sure to spr ay your pans 
well when cooking with potatoes. The final most common binder is cheese. Adding che ese won't always 
ensure easy removal, but when combined with a starch such as pasta, it makes a perfect l ittle portion.5Tools of the Trade:
Aside from the muffin pan, there are a few other tools I use quite often in the kitchen. This is a sho rt 
list of my other favorite kitchen tools. 
Cookie Scoop
Besides the muffin pans, the tool I use most often is an ice cream scoop. I bought it specifi cally for 
scooping cupcake batter uniformly into the muffin pan but I found it ca n be used for many other 
applications, such as cookie cup or savory batters. The cookie scoop will help ens ure an even amount of 
food is distributed to every well of the muffin pan. 
Round Cleaning Brush
Cleaning inside the muffin cups can be difficult. The round shape of the cleaning br ush allows you to 
clean the cups with minimal effort. 
Silpat
I wish everything could be covered in this silpat surface, especially my muffin pans . Nothing cooks up 
better and without sticking like the silpat. 
Spouted Bowls
Many of the recipes call for a “spouted bowl” to make pouring ingredients into th e small muffin cups 
easier. I have several different sizes of spouted bowls which are generally used for po uring eggs.
Paper Liners
Paper liners are handy if you are planning to bring a dish to share. Certain foods, li ke pastas and rice, 
will stick to the paper liners. Best used for bread based dishes like muffins or cornb read.
Hand-Held Blender
A hand-held or small counter top blender was invaluable during my recipe testing. The blen der has 
several blade options such as whip or chop. It does the work of a food processor but on a s maller scale. 
Frozen Garlic Cubes
I find these little garlic cubes to be the best time saver in the kitchen. They are stored in the fre ezer and 
whenever a recipe calls for garlic, I just pop one of the cubes out.  Each cube is the equivalent to one 
clove. I have used other herbs such as crushed ginger and chopped basil and found I rea lly like those 
as well. 6I have always been a much better cook than a baker. Honestly, the precision that baking th e perfect biscuit 
takes has always been very daunting. It’s not that I am bad at math or science, I am just truly le ft-brained. 
I like to be creative and make things. I love to experiment with food. Sometimes I make mas terpieces. 
Sometime I make a mess. However, when I started writing this book I knew I needed to com bine my love 
of being creative with being precise. There is a lot math and science that goes into cooking: M easurements, 
temperature, chemical reactions, etc. Through my recipe testing (and inevi table recipe mishaps) I have 
learned a lot about what can and cannot work in the muffin pan. I would love to say that if you m ix something 
together, throw it in the muffin pan, and cook it up it will pop out perfec tly every time. But, alas, I cannot. 
There is a science to making something work in the muffin pan. But have no fear! I have done the hard 
work for you and come up with an equation that should help turn almost any meal into a mu ffin pan meal!
Introducing the Muffin Pan Equations:
Muffin Pan + Wrapper + Filling
Muffin Pan + Binder + Filling
Muffin Pan + Filling + Freezer
Simple right? By adding together a muffin pan, some yummy ingredients, and somet hing to keep it all 
 together, you can create muffin pan masterpieces. Now, if you’re anything l ike me you’d like some exam -
ples. So here are some simple ideas using the muffin pan equations that you can try any ni ght of the week:
Jumbo Muffin Pan + 8-inch Flour T ortillas + Pinto Beans, Cheese & Diced Jalapeños = 
Spicy Bean and Cheese Burrito Bowls, perfect for a quick lunch
Standard Pan + Eggs + cooked Quinoa & roasted veggie = 
A healthy side dish, perfect with fish
Mini Silicon Pan + White Chocolate & Crushed Peppermint Candies + Freezer = 
Last minute holiday dessert!
It’s that easy. Almost every recipe in this book follows one of these three equat ions. It’s the secret to 
my muffin pan success. For a list of some of the possible wrappers and binders, se e previous section.Muffin Pan 
 Equation7In addition to being called “The Muffin Pan Lady,” I am also a self-proclaimed Leftover M aster Chef. I 
get it from my dad. As kids he used to make all kinds of creative dishes using leftovers or w hatever we 
already on hand. A few memorable mornings he whipped up leftover Chinese foo d omelets. I know, I 
know, it’s not for everyone but my dad loved them and loved making them. Whi le I politely passed on 
the orange chicken with broccoli omelet, I did say yes to the creative pasta dishes a nd salads he thought 
up. From him I learned an appreciation for using leftovers in new and unexpected w ays. That sense of 
creativity with food is what inspired me to start cooking in the muffin pan. 
Some of my first muffin pan recipes were products of leftovers. One night I bought a who le cooked 
chicken for dinner. W e had some simple black beans, Spanish rice, and corn to rtillas to wrap it all up. 
The next day for lunch I shredded some of the chicken, mixed in a bit of beans and rice, add ed some 
cheese and a little enchilada sauce I had on hand and baked the mixture inside the tortillas.  It made a 
great lunch and I only had to make just what I needed for me and saved the rest for some other meal.
While I worked hard to ensure the recipes measured out to exact numbers,  some of these recipes will 
grace you with their own leftovers. For example, the recipe for T omato Jewels w ith Whipped Feta and 
Herb Oil will most likely leave you with leftover whipped feta and herb oil. Embra ce it! Grab a loaf 
of French bread and go to town or mix it all in with some fettuccini and call it dinner. It ’s going to be 
delicious because you made it. And even better, because no food was thrown awa y, our hard earned 
money was saved, and who doesn’t love to save money?
Still not convinced of how wonderful the muffin pan is? Besides being just plain awesom e, here are 
some reasons why you should consider using the muffin for your next meal.  
 A great way to portion control your food.
 Perfect for cooking on a budget.
 Freezes easily for leftovers.
 Great for kids and toddlers.
 Easy to share or divide with others.
 Great for a grab and go lunch or snack.
 Clean-up is quick when everything is made in one pan.
 Great for turning almost any recipe into an appetizer.
 Shorter cook time so food is on the table faster.Embrace LeftoversBreakfast
Blueberry French Toast Muffins  ........................................................ 11
Easy Meaty Breakfast Pizza Bites  ................................................... 13
Mini Brie and Jam Pretzel Buns  ....................................................... 15
Carrot Cake Pancake Muffins  ............................................................. 17
Chilaquiles Casserole Cups  .................................................................... 19
Croque Madame in a Croissant Nest  ............................................. 21
Egg White & Turkey Bacon Cups  ...................................................... 23
Eggs Benedict Casserole Cups  ............................................................. 25
Huevos Rancheros in Homemade Corn Tortilla Cups  ........27
Mini Italian Breakfast Pie  ..................................................................... 31
Li’l Peanut Butter and Jelly Bread Pudding  ............................ 33
Love Muffins  .................................................................................................... 35
Butternut Squash Caramelized Onion Mini Quiche ............ 37
Banana-Nut Monkey Bread Muffins .............................................. 41
Breakfast Polenta Cups  ........................................................................... 43
Egg Muffins  ....................................................................................................... 45
Mini Carne Asada Frittatas with Sweet Potato Crust  ........47
Wild Mushroom Leek and Goat Cheese Eggs in  
 Proscuitto Baskets  ................................................................................ 49
Apple Cinnamon Oatmeal Cakes  ...................................................... 51
Dutch Baby Bowls with Country Sausage  .................................. 5311
Blueberry  
 French Toast Muffins
Directions:
1. Spray a standard muffin pan. 
2. Fill each cup with the cubed bread, 6 or 7 pieces. Place blueberries in a large measuri ng bowl. In mixing 
bowl with a pour spout, whisk together eggs milk, sugar, and vanilla. Pour the mixt ure over the bread 
cubes, pressing the bread down to absorb the liquid as you go. Continue to fill un til all the liquid is dis -
tributed. It may look like there is too much liquid but keep pressing the bread and po uring. Cover the 
tray and refrigerate for 2 hours or overnight. 
3. After the soaking period is complete, preheat the oven to 350°F .
4. T ake the tray from the refrigerator and place blueberries on top. 
5. In a mixing bowl, combine flour, brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt. Using your fingers or 2 forks, 
add the cold butter to the dry ingredients and crumble into coarse crumbs. D ivide the topping among 
the cups.
6. Bake for 20-25 minutes, or until golden brown. Allow the muffins to rest for 5 minutes befo re serving.Kids can learn a lot from working with adults in the kitchen. In this recipe, for example, youn g kids can count 
pieces of bread and blueberries to see how many can fit in each cup. Older kids can pract ice fractions by using 
measuring cups and measuring spoons. Fine motor skills are needed to crack eggs and gro ss motor skills are used 
to pour ingredients into bowls and stir. And then there is the all too important but toughes t lesson of all, patience. 
Every step of the cooking process, even the clean up, can be educational. Y ay for learni ng!
Ingredients:
1 loaf of French bread, cut 
into small cubes
1 cup blueberries
6 eggs
2 cups of milk
½ cup sugar
1 tbsp vanilla extract½ cup ﬂour
½ cup brown sugar, packed
1 tsp cinnamon
¼ tsp nutmeg
¼ tsp salt
½ cup of cold butter, cut 
into piecesPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:
Mix it Up: Y ou can soak the bread and egg mixture overnight in a shallow dish instead of the muffin pan. Then 
in the morning, mix in the blueberries and divide the whole bread mixture among the cups. 13
Easy Meaty  
 Breakfast Pizza Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400 °F and grease a 12-cup muffin pan plus 2 cups from the second pan (14 cups  
in all).
2. In a large skillet, cook bacon until crisp. Place on a paper toweled plate to drain. Reser ve a tablespoon of 
bacon fat to cook onions and peppers until tender. Finally, add pieces of sausag e and cook until no longer 
pink. Place sausage on the plate with bacon.
3. Next, on a floured cutting board, roll out pizza dough. Cut pizza into 14 squares. Place one sq uare in 
each cup.
4. Prebake the dough for 5 minutes. Remove pan from the oven and tamp the dough down using a t art 
shaper or the bottom of a shot glass.
5. Crumble bacon and add it, along with sausage, peppers, and onions evenly into each d ough cup.
6. Fill each cup evenly with the eggs. T op each pizza cup with mozzarella cheese. 
7. Bake for 8–10 minutes, or until the egg has set. If the cheese is browning too quickly,  move the tray to 
the bottom rack and continue to cook. “Did you say pizza for breakfast?” Y es I did! And not the cold variety from the night befor e but hot and fresh 
breakfast pizza made in the muffin pan.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 uncooked sausage patties, quartered
4 slices bacon
2 red, green, or yellow bell peppers, diced½ onion, chopped
5–6 eggs, beaten
1 cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
1 (11oz) roll of pizza doughPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans15
Mini Brie and 
 Jam Pretzel Bun s
Directions:
1. Combine water, sugar, and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer; let sit 5 minutes until f oamy. 
2. Add flour, salt, and butter; stir to combine. Using a dough hook, knead dough on m edium speed 5 
minutes until smooth, elastic, and slightly tacky (alternatively, you can turn t he dough out onto a lightly 
floured surface and knead by hand 10 minutes.
3. Shape dough into a ball and place in a large, lightly greased bowl. Cover with lightly grease d plastic wrap 
and let rise in a warm place 1 hour until doubled.
4. When dough is nearly doubled, combine water and baking soda in a large stockpot. Bring t o a boil. Heat 
oven to 400°F .
5. Punch down dough. Roll out on a lightly floured surface to ¼-inch thickness. Use a rou nd biscuit or 
cookie cutter to cut out circles of dough. Re-roll out scraps as needed. 
6. Spoon a tsp or so of jam into the center of half the dough circles. T op with a piece of brie . T op with 
another dough circle to form a pie; use fingers or fork tines to seal the edges. Transfe r pies to a lightly 
floured baking sheet or platter.
7. Place about 3 buns at a time in the boiling water bath; boil 30 seconds. Using a slotte d spoon, remove 
pies and transfer to the muffin cups. Repeat with remaining pies, placing one pie into each cu p.
8. Lightly brush tops of buns with egg wash, then sprinkle with sal t. Bake 12 to 14 minutes until golden 
brown and puffed. Cool slightly on a cooling rack before serving.It’s hard to go wrong with these ingredients together. The creaminess of the brie with the tangy ras pberry and salty 
pretzel dough. Try and resist. I know I can’t.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
¼ lb brie, cut into cubes
Raspberry jam
1 ½ cups warm (105–110°F) water
1 tbsp granulated sugar
1 packet active dry yeast
4 ½ cups all purpose ﬂour2 tsp kosher salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
10 cups or 3 quarts of water
²⁄³ cup baking soda
1 egg yolk
1 tbsp water
Kosher or sea saltPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan17
Part cake, part pancake, part muffin, all delicious. The muffin is simple to make and the cream ch eese glaze really 
gives it that carrot cake taste. 
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard 12-cup muffin pan.
2. In a mixing bowl, whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, spices, and sal t.
3. In a separate bowl thoroughly combine sugar, buttermilk, oil, vanilla, and e ggs. Add dry ingredients to 
wet ingredients and stir. Fold in walnuts and carrots.
4. Fill each cup ⅔ full. Bake for 15 minutes.
5. While the muffins are in the oven, prepare cream cheese glaze. Whisk together cream cheese , powdered 
sugar, and milk in a bowl. When the muffins are cooled enough to handle, dip the tops of the m uffins in 
the glaze.Carrot Cake  
 Pancake Muffins
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 cup ﬂour
1 tsp baking soda
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp cinnamon
¼ tsp salt
1⁄8 tsp fresh nutmeg
Dash of ground cloves
Dash of ground ginger¼ cup brown sugar, packed
¾ cup buttermilk
1 tbsp canola oil
1 ½ tsp vanilla
2 eggs
¼ cup walnuts, chopped
1 ½ cup ﬁnely grated carrots
3 tbsp cream cheese
¼ cup powdered sugar
2 tbsp skim milkPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan19
Chilaquiles  
 Casserole Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and grease a standard muffin pan.
2. In a large frying pan over medium heat, cook bacon. Remove bacon to drain on a plate. Save fat tha t was 
rendered and cook onions until tender. Add tortillas and allow them to brown up a b it before adding 
enchilada sauce. Coat the tortillas in the sauce. Finally add the bacon back to the to rtillas, stirring every -
thing to coat before removing from heat.
3. In a bowl, mix eggs, milk, garlic salt, cumin, and oregano together.
4. Divide the tortilla mixture among the 12 cups. Cover the tops of the tortillas w ith cheese. Finally, pour 
the egg mixture over the tortillas. 
5. Cook for 20 minutes. Serve with fresh salsa.For over 25 summers, my family, along with two others, has vacationed together in Lake T ahoe. W e stay in a great 
cabin, hang out by the lake, cook together, go rafting, swim, hit the casinos, and watc h lots of movies. We are so fun, 
we call ourselves The HaHas. It suits us very well. The number of guests has grown over the 25 years b ut everyone 
who comes to stay is considered instant family. That’s just how the HaHas are. One of my fav orite parts of this 
trip is when we cook together. I have some talented cooks in this extended HaHa family and many eve n have a 
signature dish. Judy makes desserts, Jill makes the salads, Chris mixes up cockta ils, Joey barbecues, Mom makes 
blueberry pancakes and Lupe makes the best chilequiles. Chilequiles are a c ombination of tortillas, enchilada sauce, 
onion, bacon and lots of love. I can’t recreate the love she puts into her chilequiles but I did c ome up with a muffin 
pan version that I hope you enjoy. “Ha Ha. ” 
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients: 
12 corn tortillas, cut into 
pieces
4 slices of bacon, chopped
½ onion
7 oz can enchilada sauce, 
El Pato reccomended
2 cloves of garlic2 cups of Mexican cheese 
blend, shredded
4 eggs
1 cup whole milk
1 tbsp garlic salt
1⁄8 tsp cumin
1⁄8 tsp oreganoYo u  
w i ll  
need:21
Croque Madame in  
 a Croissant Nest
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard 12-cup muffin pan.
2. Cut each croissant in half, lengthwise. Place one croissant half in each muffin cup.
3. On top of the croissant, layer a piece of ham, followed by a small dollop of mustard and finally cra ck an 
egg on top.
4. Place in oven and cook for 20 minutes.
5. While the egg cups bake, prepare the béchamel sauce. In a small sauce pan, melt butter ov er low heat. 
Using a wooden spoon, stir in flour. Slowly add milk and stir continuously unt il fully incorporated. Con -
tinue to stir until the sauce thickens and is smooth. Use a whisk to break apart any lumps. The fi nished 
sauce should be silky. Add grated cheese and stir until combined. 
6. After the eggs have fully cooked, the croissant cup with the béchamel sa uce. Leftover sauce can be stored 
in the fridge for several days. Try it in lasagna!I knew I wanted to include a breakfast dish with a baked egg in this cookbook but I didn’t want it to b e your basic 
egg in toast or egg in phyllo. I wanted to get creative. So I did what any good researcher might do: I wen t out to 
breakfast. I perused the menu for inspiration and landed on a croque madam. Ham a nd cheese on a croissant 
topped with a béchamel sauce. Instantly I knew I had to try to put it in a muffin pan.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 large croissants
12 pieces of ham, thinly sliced
1 cup grated gruyere
12 eggs
Dijon mustard
Béchamel Sauce1 tbsp butter
2 tbsp ﬂour
1 ½ cups whole milk
¼ cup parmesan, grated
A pinch of freshly grated nutmeg
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan23
Egg White &  
 Turkey Bacon Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard 6-cup muffin pan.
2. In a pan, add sundried tomatoes, spinach and garlic. Sauté until spinach is cooked.  Remove from heat.
3. Cut each strip of turkey bacon and place both pieces in an “X” in the muffin cup. T op the b acon with a 
tablespoon or so of the spinach tomato mixture. Add one egg white or a ¼ cup egg white s to each cup. 
T op with feta cheese.
4. Bake for 20 minutes, or until there is no more liquid on top of the egg whites.It’s bacon and eggs with a healthy twist. Still packed with flavor, this dish is a great mak e ahead breakfast to keep 
on hand. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 slices turkey bacon
2 cup fresh spinach, washed
Clove of garlic, minced3 sundried tomatoes, chopped
6 (or 1 ½ cups) egg whites
Feta, to tastePan: Standard 6-cup mufﬁn pan25
Eggs Benedict Casserole Cups
Directions:
1. Grease a standard 12-cup muffin pan.
2. Fill each muffin cup with several bread cubes, pressing into the bottom. Sprinkle d iced Canadian bacon 
among the cups. Fill all the space in each cup with the remaining bread cubes. They should be p acked 
fairly tight.
3. In a mixing bowl, whisk eggs, milk and onion powder. Pour the mixture evenly over the 12 c ups. Press 
the bread to help soak in the eggs. Continue to fill the cups until all the liquid is used.
4. Cover with foil and place in the refrigerator overnight.
5. The next morning, preheat the oven to 375°F .
6. Remove casserole cups from the refrigerator and uncover. Sprinkle papri ka on top of the cups and 
return the foil. 
7. Bake at 375 °F, covered for 35 minutes. Uncover and bake for an additional 10-12 minutes, or unt il a 
knife, inserted in the middle, comes out clean.
8. Once the casserole cups are ready to serve, prepare the hollandaise.
9. In a blender, combine all egg yolks, mustard, lemon juice, cayenne, and pep per. Cover and blend until well 
combined, about 5 seconds.
10. Melt butter in a microwave safe spouted measuring cup for about 1 minute. With the b lender on high 
speed, very slowly pour butter into the blender. The mixture will thicken qui ckly. Serve immediately. I once had a conversation with a woman from room service about the benefits of hollanda ise. I was young, given a 
menu to choose whatever I wanted and I landed on a dish called eggs benedict. Has all the thin gs I could possibly 
want except this weird sauce. “I’ll have Eggs benedict but hold the sauce, please. ” The woman who was taking my 
order couldn’t believe it. “But it’s the best part! I’ll put it on the side so you can t ry for yourself. Trust me, you’ll 
like it. ” Turns out this pushy woman knew me better than I knew me. Of course I loved th e hollandaise. Now eggs 
benedict is my favorite thing to order for breakfast.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 oz of Canadian bacon, diced
6 English Mufﬁns, split and cut into cubes
4 eggs
1 cup whole milk
½ tsp onion powder 
¼ tsp paprika Hollandaise sauce: 
3 large egg yolks 
¼ tsp Dijon mustard 
1 tsp fresh lemon juice 
1⁄8 tsp cayenne pepper 
½ tsp salt 
1⁄8 tsp ground black pepper 
½ cup unsalted butter, melted Pan: Standard 12-Cup mufﬁn pan27
Huevos Rancheros in  
 Homemade Corn Tortillas Cups
Directions:
T ortillas
1. In a small bowl, dissolve salt in 1 cup of hot water. In a large bowl, add masa harina. Slowly pour salt 
water over the masa. Use your hands to mix the dough. Knead the dough for 2 minutes. Add wa ter a 
tablespoon at a time to help reach the consistency of playdoh. It should feel smoo th and slightly clammy 
to the touch. If the dough is too sticky it needs more masa. If the dough is crumbly ad d more hot water 
one tablespoon at a time.
2. Cover bowl with kitchen towel and allow to rest on the counter for 30 minutes to 2 hours. I t is important 
to allow the dough to hydrate during this time.
3. When you are ready to work, begin by splitting the dough in half. Split each half in half agai n. Split the 
dough 2 more times until you have 16 even sized pieces.
4. Roll each piece into a ball and keep covered with kitchen towel. If the dough begins t o dry out, dip your 
fingers into cold water before rolling the dough into a ball.
5. Using 2 large squares of parchment paper, place one piece of dough between the two shee ts. Between a 
flat surface and a flat bottomed dish, like a casserole dish, frying pan, or flat dinner plate , press the center 
of the dough until flat and about ⅛ inch thick. Y ou’ll have to use those muscles to real ly get the tortillas 
flat. The tortillas should spread out to 6 inches in diameter. If the plates don’t get the t ortilla thin enough, 
continue with a rolling pin, moving from the center and rolling out toward the ed ges. Roll in varying 
directions to ensure it stays in a general circle shape.I can’t say enough about how easy it is to make your own tortillas. I was nervous at first bu t I quickly got the hang 
of it. Using freshly made tortillas in this dish made it that much more delicious.
Pan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan  
Ingredients:
2 cups masa harina corn 
ﬂour
1–2 cups hot water
½ tsp salt
1 cup refried beans
1 jalapeño, seeded and 
diced²⁄³ cup cilantro, chopped
1 tsp ground cumin
½ cup shredded cheese 
(optional)
6 large eggs
 Yo u  
w i ll  
need:28
6. Continue the process with the remaining balls of dough. Use a small piece of parchm ent paper between 
each tortilla if they are sticking together. Cover completed tortillas wi th another towel as you work.
7. Heat up large cast iron skillet over medium-high heat. Cook tortillas one at a time. Cook ea ch side for 45 
seconds to 1 minute each. The tortillas should puff as they cook on the second side. If  the tortillas stiffen 
up, reduce the cook time to 40–45 seconds per side.
8. Adjust heat to medium if the tortillas become too crispy. Keep the cooked tort illas warm in the micro -
wave or under a warm towel. The tortillas should stay flexible.
9. Repeat until all the dough has been cooked. Store in an airtight container in the refrige rator.
Huevos Rancheros
10. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a jumbo 6-cup muffin pan.
11. If the tortillas were made ahead of time, microwave 6 tortillas covered in a damp pape r towel at 30 second 
intervals until the tortillas are warm and flexible. Gently press 1 tortilla into each w ell.
12. In a bowl, mix together beans, jalapeños, cilantro, and cumin. 
13. Add 1 tablespoon of beans to the tortillas. T op the beans with cheese and finally cra ck on egg into 
the cup.
14. Bake the dish uncovered for 25–27 minutes.
15. Serve with salsa and garnish with cilantro.
Tip: I prefer to put cheese under the eggs. When the cheese is on top, it makes it harder to se e if the eggs are fully 
cooked. Also it creates a barrier that traps moisture, causing the eg gs to need more time to cook. Y ou can use a 
bowl here to ensure the yolk is place in the center.
31
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray 16 cups of 2 standard muffin pans
2. Place one biscuit half in the well of the muffin cup and press firmly into the bottom. Layer o ne piece of 
ham and salami and several pieces of red pepper into each biscuit cup.
3. In a bowl, whisk together eggs and ricotta. Pour egg mixture on top of the meat evenl y and very carefully. 
Sprinkle with parmesan cheese.
4. Bake for 15–17 minutes.This dish has very few ingredients, very few steps, and that is just how I like it.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
4 slices of ham, quartered
4 slices of large genoa salami, quartered
2 roasted red peppers, drained and diced1 can 8-count biscuits, split
3–4 eggs
2 tbsp ricotta
Parmesan cheese, as a toppingPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pansMini Italian  
 Breakfast Pie33
LI'L Peanut Butter and  
 Jelly Bread Pudding
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard 12-cup muffin pan.
2. In a casserole dish large enough to hold the muffin pan, add 1 inch of water for a water bath. Pla ce in the 
oven while the oven heats up.
3. Make 8 peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. Trim off the crusts. Butter top side of the sandw ich. With 
a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut the sandwiches into cubes. Keep the cubes small enoug h to fit into the 
muffin pan. Fill the muffin cups with sandwich cubes until packed full.
4. In a spouted mixing bowl, whisk together eggs, cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla until ful ly incorporated.
5. Carefully pour the egg mixture over the pieces of bread. Push them down to soak up the liq uid. Continue 
to pour until cups are full.
6. Allow the tray to soak on the counter for 5 minutes. 
7. Place muffin pan in the water bath in the oven. Bake for 25 minutes.
8. V ery carefully, remove just the muffin pan from the oven and turn off. Allow the dish of water to cool 
down before removing from the oven. 
9. Let the dish sit on the counter for another 5 minutes before serving.
Note : For bread pudding, I find that thick white breads work best. Challah, brioche, fren ch bread and sour-
dough are among my favorites. Thick sliced bread, such as T exas toast also works reall y well. This recipe combines the peanut butter and jelly sandwich and bread pudding into on e yummy breakfast treat. Add 
a side of ice cold milk and I am a happy camper. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
8 slices of white bread 
½ cup of crunchy peanut butter
½ cup grape jelly
Butter3 eggs
1 cup of cream
½ cup whole milk
¼ cup sugar
1 tsp vanilla extractPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan35
Love  
 Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a standard 12-cup muffin pan.
2. In a food processor, pulse oats for about 10 seconds. T o the oats, add flax seed, yogu rt, eggs, honey, baking 
powder, baking soda, vanilla, and bananas.
3. Mix in food processor until everything is well combined and smooth.
4. T ake out the blade, carefully, and fold in chocolate chips and walnuts with spatula.
5. Divide the batter evenly among the 12 cups. Bake for 18–20 minutes or until a toothpick co mes  
out clean.
6. Allow the muffins to cool on a rack before eating.I call these Love Muffins because both your children and your hips will love them!
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 ½ cups old fashioned oats
2 tbsp ground ﬂax seed
1 cup plain low fat greek yogurt
2 eggs
½ cup honey2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp baking soda
1 tsp vanilla extract
2 bananas, very ripe
½ cup dark chocolate chips
¼ cup walnuts, choppedPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan37
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl, toss butternut squash, oil, salt, and pepper until coated. T urn the s quash out onto a 
greased baking sheet and roast for 30–40 minutes.
3. While the butternut squash roasts, prepare the caramelized onions.
4. In a skillet, over medium-high heat, heat sugar until melted and light brown, abou t 2 minutes. Add 
onions and stir with a wooden spoon until coated with sugar. Add butter, bakin g soda, salt and pepper. 
Stir onions and continue to cook until all the liquid is cooked out and there is a brown c oating on the 
bottom of the pan, 6–8 minutes.
5. T o deglaze the pan, add 1 tablespoon of water and scrape brown bits off t he bottom of the pan. Stir 
occasionally until coating begins to appear again, after an additional 3 minutes. Add o ne more table -
spoon of water and scrape the pan down again. Repeat this process, cooking for 3 minut es or so until 
coating forms, then add water and scrape down until all the water is used and onions are a r ich deep 
brown color. Remove from the pan and allow to rest in a bowl at room temperature. 
6. Check in on butternut squash. Give the tray a stir and return to the oven.This recipe highlights two of my absolute favorite ingredients: butternut squash and c aramelized onions. The 
combination of the two is perfection. Paired with gorgonzola and baked up in a phyllo cup , these have become a 
staple in my brunch repertoire. 
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan 
Ingredients:
2 (12 oz) bags of chopped butternut 
squash or 4 medium butternut squash, 
peeled and cut into bite sized pieces
1 tbsp olive oil
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 tsp sugar 
1 large yellow onion, chopped
1 tbsp butter 
1⁄8 tsp baking soda
1 tsp saltPepper, to taste
¼ cup water
1 pkg phyllo dough, thawed as directed on 
package 
Olive oil
1 cup half & half
3 eggs, lightly beaten
1 tbsp sage, thinly sliced
Salt & pepper, to taste
1⁄3 cup gorgonzola, crumbledYo u  
w i ll  
need:Butternut Squash  
 Caramelized Onion Mini Quiche
7. While the squash finishes cooking, prepare the phyllo cups. Br ush oil between 6 sheets of phyllo. Cut the 
phyllo into 8 pieces, giving you 48 squares. Layer 4 squares of phyllo into each muffin cup , alternating 
the corners around the well of the muffin cup.
8. The squash should be ready by now. Remove from oven and pour into bowl with onions.
9. Mix together and spoon several pieces of the squash and onions into the phyllo cups.  Divide cheese 
among the 12 cups.
10. In a spouted medium bowl, whisk together milk, eggs, sage, salt, and pepper. C arefully pour egg mixture 
on top of squash. Spray the tops of the phyllo with non-stick spray to help avoid bur ning.
11. Bake in 350°F oven for 15–20 minutes.
38
41
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 can (16.3 oz.) refrigerated but-
termilk biscuits, each cut into 
quarters
1 small banana, coarsely chopped
6 tbsp peanuts, divided1 cup brown sugar
¼ cup (1 stick) butter, melted
2 tbsp creamy peanut butter
1 tbsp water
¼ cup granulated sugar
1 ½ tsp cinnamonPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn panBanana-Nut  
 Monkey Bread Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease pan.
2. Divide the banana pieces along the bottom of the muffin cups. Sprinkle ¼ cup of the peanuts on t op the 
bananas.
3. In a microwave safe bowl, combine brown sugar, butter, peanut butter, and water.  Heat on high for 1 
minute or until butter is melted. Stir and pour over bananas and nuts. 
4. In a food processor, pulse the remaining nuts, sugar, and cinnamon until nu ts are ground fine. Pour into 
shallow dish. Roll the dough pieces in the sugar mixture. Place 4–6 dough pieces into each c up. Press 
dough into the bottom firmly. 
5. Bake for 15 minutes or until golden brown.
6. T o remove muffins from the pan, loosen the edges with a butter knife. Place a baking tra y on top of the 
pan, holding firmly, and invert the muffins on to the tray. This is a very kid friendly recipe. The name monkey bread makes it fun, the small pieces of bre ad make it perfect 
for those tiny toddler hands, and the combination of peanut butter and bananas just m akes it delicious. 43Breakfast  
 Polenta Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and spray 6 wells of a standard muffin pan.
2. Place the cubed polenta in a microwave safe dish and heat for 2 minutes. Add rosemary and smas h 
 polenta with a fork. Add cream to the polenta and stir. Add another tablespoo n if the mixture appears 
too clumpy.
3. Pour polenta into the muffin pan and press into the center to create a well. Place one cube of cream y 
cheese into the well.
4. In a small bowl, carefully break one egg. Pour the egg from the bowl into the cup, doing you r best to place 
the egg on top of the cheese.
5. Bake the dish for 10 minutes. T ake out of the oven and cover egg in parmesan cheese.
6. Bake for an additional 5 minutes, or until egg has set.
Note : Let the kids mash the polenta. It's fun and then you don’t have to! And, using the bowl to add eggs i s a 
great way to angle the yolks in the center.Start your day right with these creamy polenta cups.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 oz polenta (½ stick), cubed
2–3 tbsp heavy cream or milk
1 (8 oz) slab of creamy blue Brie 
Cheese, cubed1 tbsp rosemary, minced
½ cup parmesan cheese
Salt and pepper, to taste
6 medium size eggs
 Pan: Standard 6-cup mufﬁn pan
45Egg  
 Muffin s
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and spray a standard muffin pan.
2. Prepare muffin pan by placing one slice of English muffin into each cup. Using the tart shaper o r shot 
glass, press the English muffin into the bottom of the cup.
3. In a skillet, break sausage into large chunks and brown for 5 minutes, or until no longer pink . Stir in 
peppers and cook for an additional minute. Remove from heat and divide sausage and pepp ers among 
the muffin cups. T op the sausage and peppers with shredded cheese. 
4. In a spouted bowl, whisk together eggs, milk, Italian seasonings, salt and pepper . Carefully pour the egg 
mixture over sausage, peppers, and cheese.
5. Bake for 15–17 minutes, until a knife inserted in the cup comes out clean.
Note: This dish is very versatile. Y ou can use sweet, mild, or spicy sau sage. Also, broccoli works well in place of 
peppers. Finally, mozzarella can be substituted for any shredded cheese yo u have on hand.Great for breakfast on the go. A take on the classic Italian sausage and peppers sand wich. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 whole English mufﬁns, split into 
12 halves
½ lb Italian sausage, ground
1 bell pepper, chopped¼ cup mozzarella cheese, shredded
6 large eggs
¼ cup milk
1 tsp Italian seasonings
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
47Mini Carne Asada Frittatas  
 with sweet potato crust
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and spray a standard muffin pan very well. 
2. In each muffin cup, layer 2 or 3 sweet potato slices to cover bottom. Stand ad ditional 3 or 4 slices around 
the edge of the muffin cup, overlapping to help ensure they stay standing.
3. Bake the sweet potato crust at 400°F for 15 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, in a large skillet, heat a tablespoon of oil over medium heat. Cook onion s, peppers, and 
mushrooms for 3–4 minutes, then add steak. Continue to cook until steak is cooked th rough and veggies 
are tender. Should only take another minute or two.
5. When the crust has finished prebaking, remove from oven. Lower o ven to 375 °F when the crust is 
finished prebaking.
6. Divide the steak and mushroom mixture among the sweet potato crusts. Adjust the sw eet potato slices 
if they have fallen.
7. In a spouted bowl, whisk together eggs, milk, cotija, salt, and pepper. Careful ly pour the egg mixture  
over steak.
8. Bake at 375°F for 18–20 minutes, or until a sharp knife comes out cleanly.I adore the sweet potato crust on these mini frittatas. They take a little work but it is worth the eff ort. 
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
2–3 good sized sweet pota-
toes, peeled and sliced 
thinly 
14 oz carne asada steak, 
diced
½ cup onion½ cup red bell pepper
1 cup mushrooms, washed 
and chopped
6 eggs
½ cup milk
¼ cotija cheese, crumbled
Salt and pepperYo u  
w i ll  
need:
49Wild Mushroom Leek and Goat  
 Cheese Eggs in Prosciutto Baskets
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and lightly grease a standard muffin pan.
2. In a large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of oil over medium heat. Cook mushrooms and leeks fo r 2 minutes, 
seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. Stir in garlic and continue to cook for 5–6 minute s, stirring 
occasionally. Set aside.
3. Line the inside of each muffin cup with a slice of prosciutto, creating a cup. T ear the 2 e xtra pieces of 
prosciutto in pieces and divide among the cups to make sure the bottoms of the cups are li ned.
4. Scoop the mushroom and leeks into the prosciutto cups, about 1 heaping tablespoo n. Add 1 tsp of goat 
cheese. Press down with a spoon to make room for the egg. Finally, crack an egg into each c up. 
5. Bake for 18–20 minutes for a soft yolk, 20–25 minutes for a firm yolk. Place on a rack and allow to rest 
for 5 minutes before serving.True, it is another egg in a nest recipe but this time loaded up with delicious leeks, wild mushr ooms, and creamy 
goat cheese. Then to make it even better, it is wrapped in delicious prosciutto. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
8 slices of prosciutto
6 eggs
1 cup mushrooms, washed and chopped
1 small leek whites, quartered and sliced thin2 tbsp goat cheese
1 clove garlic
Fresh parsley
Salt and pepper, to taste Pan: Standard 6-cup mufﬁn pan
51
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray standard muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl combine oats, brown sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt.
3. In a separate bowl, whisk together egg, milk, and applesauce.
4. Add wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly.
5. Fold in apple, raisins, and nuts.
6. Fill each cup with the oatmeal mixture.
7. Bake for 25–30 minutes, or until the tops are golden brown.
8. After removing from the oven, let the cakes cool for 10 minutes before removing fro m the pan.
Note:  These freeze well and are customizable.These oatmeal cakes are great for a grab and go breakfast. All the comfort and warmth of oa tmeal to go. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 cups rolled oats
¼ cup brown sugar, packed
1 tsp baking powder
1 ½ tsp cinnamon
¼ tsp salt
½ cup egg whites or 1 whole egg1½ cup milk, any variety and combination  
(I used 1 cup 2% milk and ½ cup  
coconut milk)
¼ cup unsweetened applesauce
1 apple, peeled and chopped into ½” pieces
½ cup raisins
¼ cup walnuts, choppedPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn panApple Cinnamon  
 Oatmeal Cakes 53
Dutch Baby Bowls  
 with Country Sausage
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and spray 2 standard muffins pans. 
2. In a blender, mix together milk, eggs, flour, and salt until well blended. Let th e butter sit out at room 
temperature while you mix the ingredients and then pour into the blender. This wi ll ensure the hot 
butter doesn’t cook the eggs.
3. Divide the batter evenly among the 24 cups, filling each cup halfway full.
4. Bake at 400 °F for 13–15 minutes. They will expand while they bake, like a popover, but will settle and 
sink when taken out of the oven.
5. While the dutch babies bake, prepare the country sausage filling.
6. In a skillet over medium heat, brown the sausage links for 2–3 minutes. They do not need to be ful ly 
cooked, just firm enough to be sliced. Remove the sausage and slice into rounds.  (If you are using 
fully cooked sausage, you can skip this step and slice the sausages before add ing them to the pan.) 
Return the sausage to the pan. Mix in the apples, raisins, potatoes, onions, sage, an d cinnamon. Add 
salt and pepper to taste.
7. Remove from the heat when the onions are softened and sausage is no longer pink.
8. Serve the sausage mixture in the dutch baby cups.I’m pretty positive my love for brunch comes from my mother (and not just because of ou r shared love for mimosas). 
Growing up we had a lot of family living near by and on Sundays we would get together for brunc h. My mom 
would make the best food. There are two dishes that stand out the most for me: Dutch Babies and C ountry Sausage 
Pie. I used to ask my mom to make “the baby thing with the butter” and because sh e’s a mom she knew exactly what 
I meant. Several years and more teeth later, she made us country sausage pie and I was hoo ked on brunch. Now 
many more years have passed and I have the honor of combining these two memorable dis hes into one muffin pan 
brunch dish with you all. I raise my mimosa to you, Mama. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 cup milk
6 eggs
1 cup ﬂour
1⁄8 tsp salt
¼ cup unsalted butter, melted
3 Italian sausage links½ apple, peeled and diced
¼ cup raisins
1 potato, baked, cooled, and diced
½ yellow onion, diced
½ tsp dried sage
1⁄8 tsp cinnamon
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pansAppetizers
My Cheddar, Apple, Sausage Biscuits  ............................................... 57
Southwest Eggroll Bundles With Chipotle  
 Cream Sauce  ................................................................................................. 59
Creamy Chicken Cordon Bleu Bundles  ............................................. 61
Cranberry Brie Bundles with toasted pistachios  ...................... 63
Hot Pepper Jelly and Cream Cheese Stars  ................................... 65
Edamame Walnut Blossoms  ..................................................................... 67
French Onion Soup Dumplings ............................................................... 69
Petite Gorgonzola Cheesecake with a Walnut Crust  ............. 71
Irish Nacho Stacks  ........................................................................................... 73
Pancetta Mushroom Tassie  ........................................................................ 75
Pretzel Dogs Dippers with Beer Cheese Dip  ................................ 77
Melon Salad in Prosciutto Nests  ........................................................... 81
Roasted Tomato Tarts With Whipped Feta and Herb Oil  ....83
Salami Boats with Antipasto Salad  ..................................................... 85
Smoked Gouda and Soyrizo Jalapeño Poppers  ........................ 87
Mini Spanikopita  ............................................................................................... 89
Creamy Southwest Beggar’s Purse  ..................................................... 91
Caprese Polenta Bites  ................................................................................... 93
Apricot Brie Tarts with Chipotle Honey Almonds  ..................... 95
Chicken Parmesan Cracker Cups  .......................................................... 97
BLAT Chicken Salad in Wonton Cups  ................................................. 99
Itty Bitty Lobsta Rolls  ................................................................................. 101
Mini Corn and Crab Cakes  ...................................................................... 103
Caramelized Onion & Balsamic Fig Hand Pies  ....................... 10557My Cheddar, Apple,  
 Sausage Biscuits
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F .
2. Add the sausage to the skillet on medium heat, breaking it apart with a spatula. Cook sausa ge for a 
 minute or two. Throw in the apples and onions. Cook until meat is no longer pink and onio ns are 
 softened. T urn off the heat and salt to taste.
3. Grease two non-stick muffin pans. If you are using a biscuit with added butter flavor, the re is no need to 
grease the pans. Slice each biscuit lengthwise. Y ou should have 16 slices in tot al. Place each slice of biscuit 
in the well of muffin pan. Use a spoon or the end of a shot glass to get the biscuit in there nice and s nug.
4. Spoon the sausage, apple, onion mixture into each biscuit cup. Add a pinch of t he rosemary to each cup 
and top with a sprinkle of the cheddar cheese.
5. Bake for 18 minutes or until the edges begin to turn golden brown. Remove and serve im mediately.This recipe gets the very special title of “My” because out of all the recipes in this book, I may be most p roud of this 
one. This recipe was the first on my blog, was the first recipe I wrote myself back in 2010, and was created ent irely 
from what I had on hand. The sausage and biscuit make it a hearty appetizer while the apple, c heddar, and hint 
of rosemary give it some class. It’s a crowd pleaser. 
Pan: 2  standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans, nonstick
Ingredients:
1 can 8 biscuits
½ package
½ lb ground Italian  
sausage½ cup cheddar cheese, grated
I med yellow onion, chopped
1 large red apple, chopped
1-2 tbsp rosemary, chopped
Salt and pepper to tasteYo u  
w i ll  
need:
59Southwest Eggroll Bundles  
 With Chipotle Cream Sauce
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F . 
2. In a large skillet, sauté bell pepper and green onion in oil for 3–5 minutes, until soft. Next, a dd the black 
beans, frozen corn and jalapeño to the pan and cook until heated through. Finally, add the ch icken, 
cumin, chili, cayenne, and salt. Stir until combined. Remove the pan from the h eat and stir in the cheese.
3. T o fill egg rolls, very gently place press one wrapper in each well of the muffin pan. Spoon t he mixture, 
about 2 tablespoons or half full, into each cup. Bring the four corners to the midd le to form a peak. Pinch 
the corners together and twist tightly.
4. Place the muffin pan on the lowest rack and set the timer for 22 minutes.
5. While the eggrolls are baking up, gather the ingredients to mix up the dipping sa uce. Mix all the 
ingredients together, thinning out with the liquid until you reach the des ired consistency.
6. Check on the eggrolls, making sure the peaks do not become too brown. When they reach a ni ce golden 
brown, remove from the oven.
7. Allow the cups to cool for a minute before removing from the pan. Make sure the b ottoms have began to 
crisp up. If not, they may need a minute or two back in the oven to firm up. Once they seem firm, remove 
all the eggroll cups from the pan and allow to cool. This will further harden the eggroll wrap per. 
8. Can be served warm or cold with the dipping sauce.While writing this cookbook I brought most of my recipes into work. It was grea t not having all that food in my fridge. 
It was also nice having my coworkers try the food and let me know what they thought. Buil t-in taste testers. This one got 
a lot of great reviews and even some next day “Those eggroll cups you made yesterday were so good!” a nd “That dipping 
sauce really made the dish!” And I agree with them. These were great and the dipping sauce m akes this dish stand out.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1–2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 cup red bell pepper, chopped
½ cup green onion, chopped
1 cup black beans, drained and rinsed
1 ½ cup frozen corn
1 whole jalapeño, seeded and diced 
2 large chicken breast, cooked  
and diced
2 tsp cumin
2 tsp chili powder
1 tsp cayenne1 ½ cup Monterey Jack cheese, shredded
12 egg roll wrappers
Dipping Sauce:
½ cup of cream cheese, softened
1 chipotle pepper in adobo sauce, seeded and 
minced
1 tbsp adobo sauce, from the jar
2 tbsp fresh lime juice
2-3 tbsp milk, cream, or half & half, or broth 
for thinning
Salt, to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans
61
Creamy Chicken  
 Cordon Bleu Bundles
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and grease two standard pans. 
2. In a pan large enough to hold the chicken and liquid comfortably, a dd the two chicken breasts and cover 
with cooking liquid. I use water in this case but you can use broth, white wine, ci der, beer, or a combina -
tion of whatever suits your fancy. T o the liquid, add the ground mustard and garlic sal t. Bring to a boil 
at medium-high heat, then bring the heat to low and cover. Cook until no longer pink, a bout 10–15 
minutes depending on the thickness of the chicken.
3. When the chicken is all cooked, pour out the liquid, and dice the chicken into cu bes. Prepare the ham as 
well. Stack several pieces of ham and cut into quarters. 
4. Only when everything else has been prepped, take the puff pastry from the refriger ator. On a lightly 
floured surface, roll out the first sheet. Keep the second sheet in the fridge.  Keeping the puff pastry cold 
ensures maximum puff when baked.
5. Cut each pastry sheet into 9 pieces, 3 across and 3 down. Place the puff pastry squares into each 
muffin cup.
6. First layer to go into the cup is ham, pushed in gently. Next several cubes of chicken,  followed by a cube 
of brie. Lastly cover each cup with a generous amount of shredded cheese. 
7. Bake for 10–12 minutes. The outside should be just turning light brown.
Note:  This dish is fabulous on its own or served with a nice French mustard for dipping. Other s andwiches such 
as a Cuban or a Muffaletta would work well here too. This already classic French dish gets another layer of decadence with the addition of crea my French brie. While 
these make for a great appetizer, you can also serve two of these bundles with a nice green s alad and call it lunch/
dinner. Bon appétit! 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 box (2 sheets) of Puff Pastry
2 chicken breasts, boneless skinless, 
about 1 lb total
1 tbsp ground mustard1 tbsp garlic salt
20 slices of ham
¼ lb brie, cut into 18 cubes
1 cup swiss or gruyere cheese, 
shreddedPan: 2 Standard12-cup mufﬁn pans63
Cranberry brie bundles  
 with toasted pistachios
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and grease the pan.
2. Heat pan over medium heat and add pistachios. T oast for a minute or two, unti l just golden brown and 
fragrant. 
3. Place wonton wrapper in the well of each mini muffin cup. Into each cup add one cube of bri e. Evenly 
distribute pistachios, then green onions, and finally cranberries among the 24 cup s.
4. Y our Choice: Y ou can leave the wonton wrapper open like a blossom or close up the en ds in a star shape.
5. Bake at 375 °F for 7–8 minutes, until cheese is melted and edges begin to brown. This dish is best 
served warm.Festive, and oh-so-simple to make, this recipe is sure to be a crowd pleaser at any holiday p arty.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
24 Wonton Wrappers
8 oz Brie Cheese, cut into ½ inch 
cubes½ cup dried cranberries, chopped
½ cup pistachios, shelled and 
coarsely chopped
2–3 green onions, whites only, 
choppedPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
Mix It Up: Try this bold variation! The amounts and directions are the same unless otherwise note d. 
blue brie (such as Cambozola) 
dried cherries
toasted walnuts
1 shallot, chopped and caramelized65
Hot Pepper Jelly  
 and Cream Cheese Stars
Directions:
1. Set the oven for 375 ° F.
2. Combine diced peppers and half cup of the apple cider vinegar in a blender or food proc essor for several 
pulses. This will mince up the peppers to eliminate the need to strain later.
3. In a 6-quart sauce pan, combine the blended pepper mixture, the rest of the vi negar, and sugar. Bring to 
a rolling boil on high heat, stirring constantly.
4. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the liquid pectin. Ladle jelly in to jars. Follow the directions on 
the package of pectin to if you would like to sanitize and store the jars.
5. Allow several minutes for the jelly to set.
6. Prepare your mini muffin pan by very lightly spraying the wells with cooking spray. Pla ce one wonton or 
pot sticker wrapper into each cup. Place approximately 1 tsp each of hot pepper jelly an d cream cheese 
into the wrapper.
7. Using a little bit of water to help seal the edges, pinch two opposite sides to gether. Bring the remaining 
two side towards the middle and pinch. Use as much water as needed to seal edges into a star sha pe.
8. Bake at 375 °F for 13–15 minutes or until the wrappers are light brown. Remove the wontons from the 
pan immediately to cool on a rack. They tend to stick if left in the pan.For a person whose medium is the muffin pan, who has never tried to make je lly or jam in her life, I seriously 
impressed myself with a batch of jelly. After patting myself on the back, I mixed the jell y with some cream cheese, 
wrapped in it a wonton, and impressed myself again.
Pan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
24 Wonton Wrappers
Cream CheeseHot Pepper Jelly
1 red bell pepper, seeded and diced
1 jalapeño, seeded and diced
1 small Santa Fe pepper, with seeds, diced
1 ½ cup apple cider vinegar, divided
4 cups sugar
1 (3 oz) pouch of liquid pectin, I use CertoYo u  
w i ll  
need:67
Edamame  
 Walnut Blossoms
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and grease the mini muffin pan.
2. Heat a pan over medium heat with 1–2 tablespoon(s) of olive oil. Add onions and cook until t ranslucent. 
Next, add the sugar and continue to cook until the onions begin to caramelize. Remove fr om the heat 
and put the onions aside.
3. Place the same pan back on the heat and add the walnuts and toast until they just begin to brown. 
Once they begin to brown, add the edamame, garlic, white wine, the caramelized onion s, and a generous 
amount of salt and pepper.
4. Continue to cook until the white wine begins to bubble and evaporate. 
5. Y our Choice: Y ou can add the mixture to the food processer and blend it for a creamy filling o r place the 
mixture in a bowl and smash with a fork for a crunchy texture.
6. In the greased muffin pan place one wonton wrapper into each of the 24 cups. Place a tablespo on of the 
mixture into each wonton wrapper. Spray the edges of the wonton wrappers wit h olive oil spray.
7. Cook at 375°F for 12 minutes, or until the wonton wrapper begins to brown. Serve warm.
Note:  If you are making this dish for vegan friends, replace the wontons with phyllo. The combination of the wine, garlic, and walnuts served up in won ton cups makes this a very flav orful and elegant 
appetizer.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 ½ cups of edamame, shelled
1⁄3 cup of walnuts, ﬁnely chopped
Olive oil
½ an onion, diced1 tsp of brown sugar
2 garlic cloves, minced
1⁄3 cup of white wine
1 package of wonton wrappers
Salt and pepper to tastePan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan69
French Onion  
 Soup Dumplings
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F .
2. Over medium heat, add oil and butter to a heavy bottom pan, preferabl y cast iron if you have it, and stir 
until melted. Add the onions and garlic to the pan and stir to coat them. Leave the onions i n the dish for 
several minutes, undisturbed.
3. T urn down the heat to medium low and add the sugar, thyme, salt, and pepper and give the onion s 
another stir. Continue stirring every so often to ensure the onions don’t bu rn. The whole process takes 
about 30–40 minutes. 
4. When the onions are all browned and soft add the beef broth and deglaze the pan. Use a wooden spoon 
to scrape any bits that are stuck to the bottom. 
5. Remove pan from heat and let it rest while you prepare the puff pastry. On a lightly floure d surface, 
unfold the thawed puff pastry and cut into 24 squares. A pizza cutter works well here. I pref er to cut the 
dough into 6 slices first then across each slice 4 times to create the 24 squares.
6. Place a square into each cup. Add a small spread of mustard, next adding a spoonful of the o nions, finally 
topped by a generous amount of cheese. Fold the corners into the middle.
7. Bake for 12 minutes or until puffed and golden brown. Remove from the oven and allow to cool b efore 
serving. This recipe does very well at room temperature.
Note : This recipe is a great one to freeze and have in your arsenal when you need to whip up a last minu te 
 appetizer. They can be baked frozen or thawed. Add 3-5 minutes if baked out of the freezer.I love San Diego. It’s almost always sunny and very rarely do we have cold days, the kind th e rest of the country 
would call “cold. ” I admit, occasionally I miss those chilly, gray, rainy da ys. The kind where you lay in bed watching 
movies, sipping hot soup and pretending you had grand plans for the day: “I would be o ut running that half mara -
thon today and painting the house if it weren’t for this rain. ” Much to my delight, whil e working on this cookbook, 
Southern California finally had some much needed rain. So I mixed up a batch of these warm s oup dumplings, 
expressed my disappointment to my cat about how I was bummed that I couldn’t climb the m ountain I planned on 
conquering that day, and settled in for a Harry Potter marathon. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 tbsp olive oil
3 tbsp unsalted butter
1 tsp or 1 clove of garlic, minced
1 large yellow onion, sliced thinly
1 tsp fresh thyme leavesSalt and pepper to taste
1tsp sugar
3 tbsp beef broth
1 sheet 9x9 puff pastry
Whole grain mustard
1⁄3 cup grated gruyere or Swiss cheesePan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan71
Petite Gorgonzola  
 Cheesecake with a Walnut Crust
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a mini muffin pan.
2. In a food processor, finely chop walnuts. T o the walnuts, add bread crumbs, melted but ter, and egg white 
and mix. Add a tsp of crust mixture to each muffin cup. Using a tamp or just your thumb, press th e crust 
down firmly.
3. Bake for 5 minutes.
4. In a microwave safe bowl, heat cream cheese and gorgonzola for 2–3 minutes. Stir the mixture until 
smooth. When the cream cheese mixture is cool, whisk in egg.
5. Divide the cream cheese mixture among the 24 muffin cups.
6. Bake the cheesecake for 15 minutes, or until light brown and puffed.
7. When done, allow the cheesecake to cool. When ready to serve, top each cheesec ake bite with a piece of 
pear and drizzle of honey.I first had gorgonzola cheesecake at a restaurant here in San Diego. It was offered on the des sert menu and 
everyone at the table was curious about it. We ordered it and loved it! When we told the wa iter how much we had 
enjoyed it, even though it seemed scary he suggested trying it out next time as an appet izer. Boy was he right. I was 
inspired by that cheesecake to make my own version, served as an appetizer. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
½ cup walnuts
¼ cup panko bread crumbs
3 tbsp butter, melted
¼ cup sugar
1 egg white1 egg
8 oz cream cheese
4 oz Gorgonzola cheese
1 cup candied walnuts
½ pear, diced
HoneyPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan73
Irish  
 Nacho Stacks
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425 °F, move oven rack to lowest position, and grease a standard muffin pan with butter. 
2. Pulse panko crumbs in a food processor until finely ground and press ground panko int o the sides of 
the cup. 
3. In a large microwave safe bowl, combine potatoes, half & half, salt and pepper. Cover the bow l with 
plastic wrap and microwave for 12–15 minutes, just until tender. Stir once.
4. While the potatoes are in the microwave, in a separate bowl, combine cheddar, par mesan, and cornstarch. 
Scoop ⅓ cup of the mixture and reserve for a topping.
5. When the potatoes are done, add the jalapeño and bacon and gently stir. T o that, add th e remaining 
cheese mixture to the bowl and stir again until smooth. Evenly divide the potato mixtu re among the 12 
cups. T op with the reserved cheese.
6. Spray the underside of a large piece of foil with cooking spray. Cover the pota toes, greased side down.
7. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove foil and bake for an additional 13–15 minutes, or until golden bro wn.
8. Run a knife around the potato cup. Allow to cool in the muffin pan. T urn potatoes out o nto a serving 
tray. Allow to cool for additional 5 minutes.
9. Serve with pico de gallo and sour cream.All the beauty of Irish Nachos stacked up in the muffin pan.
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
½ cup panko bread crumbs
1 tbsp unsalted butter, 
softened
2 lbs russet potatoes, peeled 
and sliced
1 ¼ cup half and half
1 ¼ tsp salt
¾ tsp pepper
1 1⁄3 cup Irish white ched-
dar, shredded²⁄³ cup Parmesan cheese, 
grated
2 tsp cornstarch
1 jalapeño, seeded and 
diced
½ cup of cooked bacon, 
crumbled
Pico de gallo
Sour creamYo u  
w i ll  
need:75
Pancetta  
 Mushroom Tassie
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and spray a 24 mini muffin pan.
2. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter and cr eam cheese. On low speed, 
gradually add flour. Divide mixture into 24 balls and place on a lined baking sheet in the refr igerator for 
an hour.
3. While the dough chills, cook pancetta and mushrooms in a medium skill et. Fry pancetta until fat is 
rendered and the mushrooms are cooked, about 6-7 minutes. Drain the mushroom and p ancetta in a fine 
mesh sieve or on a paper toweled plate.
4. T ake dough from the refrigerator and place one ball in each cup. Press the dough in the cen ter with the 
thumb, pressing the dough into the sides, creating a well in the center. 
5. In a bowl, whisk together egg, half & half, and salt. Divid the pancetta and mushroom mixtu re into each 
dough cup. T op with a tsp or so of Parmesan.
6. Carefully pour the egg mixture into the remaining space on top of the cheese. 
7. Bake for 20 minutes or until puffed and golden brown. 
8. Allow the tassies to cool on a rack before serving.
Note:  Cooled leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 da ys.  Reheat in a 350ºF 
oven for 5–10 minutes or until warmed through.T assies are traditionally filled with pecans or lemon curd and served as a desse rt. I don’t really have much of a sweet 
tooth to speak of so I put pancetta and mushrooms in my tassies and serve them as an appetizer ins tead.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
4 oz pancetta, diced 
½ cup mushrooms, cleaned and 
chopped
4 oz (8 tbsp) unsalted butter
4 oz cream cheese
1 ½ cup all-purpose ﬂour½ cup half & half
1 large egg
1⁄8 tsp salt
½ cup grated parmesan cheese
¼ cup chopped fresh chives
Cayenne pepper to tastePan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan77
Pretzel Dog Dippers  
 with Beer Cheese Dip
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425°F and grease two mini muffin pans.
2. In the stand mixer bowl, combine the warm water, sugar, and kosher salt. Sprinkle yeas t on top and allow 
to sit for 5 minutes or until it begins to foam. Add the flour next, followed by the melte d butter. 
3. In a stand mixer with the hook attachment, knead the dough on medium speed for 4–5 minut es. When 
the dough is smooth and begins to pull away from the sides, turn the mixer off and turn th e dough out. 
Clean and then oil the same mixing bowl and return the dough. Cover in plastic wrap and let it sit in a  
warm place for about an hour. Check on the dough, and at about 45 minutes in, start your pot o f boiling 
water. Y ou can use a pasta pot or a roasting pan. The roasting pan wi ll allow for more dough to be boiled 
at a time.
4. While the dough is rising, start on the beer cheese dip. In a sauce pan over med-high heat,  bring beer to 
a simmer. In a bowl toss the cheese and flour together and add the beer. Finally add the s oftened cream 
cheese and garlic. Stir until the cheese has melted. The texture should be smooth. The wh ole process 
should take about 5 minutes. Y ou can strain the mixture if you’d like through a fine me sh strainer. If you 
don’t have one, don’t worry. It’s all going to taste amazing. Keep warm until ready to s erve.They may be funny looking but these guys are serious business. These bites are hearty, sa lty, and smoky. Try serving 
these at your next super bowl party. The dip alone will keep everyone coming back for mo re.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 ½ cups warm (105–110°F) water
1 tbsp granulated sugar
1 packet active dry yeast
4 ½ cups warm water
2 tsp kosher salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted
10 cups or 3 quarts of water
²⁄³ cup baking soda
I or 2 packages of cocktail sausage or mini 
hot dogs1 egg yolk, beaten with 1 tbsp water
Kosher or Sea Salt
Cheese Dip
1 bottle of dark beer (I prefer Newcastle)
3 cups sharp cheddar, grated
2 tbsp ﬂour
8 oz cream cheese or Neufchatel cheese, 
softened
2 cloves garlic, minced
Salt and pepper to tastePan: 2 Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pans78
5. When the dough has doubled in size, remove the dough from the pan and split into 48 equal pie ces. I 
use the half method. Cut the dough in half, then each half in half and so on until you reach 48 piec es. 
6. Add the baking soda to the water. T ake each piece of dough and flatten as wide as it will go.  Place a 
cocktail wiener in the middle and wrap the dough around it. W ork in batche s of four or five at a time, 
depending on the size of the pan. Boil each dough and dog combo for 20–30 seconds. Remove wi th a 
slotted spoon and place directly into each mini muffin cup.
7. After you have made all 48 little pretzel dogs, brush all the dogs with the egg wash and salt the dogs 
liberally.
8. Bake for 15–18 minutes. They should be a deep golden brown. Give the dip a stir to eliminate any fil m 
and serve with the pretzel dogs.
Note: When I made this recipe, I also made the Brie and Jam Pretzel Buns for breakfast. Y ou can us e half the 
batch of dough for these and half for the pretzel buns.
78
81
Melon Salad  
 in Prosciutto Nests
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F .
2. In a large bowl, toss the cantaloupe, chopped mint, and olive oil together. 
3. In the well of the muffin cup, place one end of the prosciutto on the bottom. Wrap the pr osciutto around 
the inside of the muffin cup until it meets back at the start of the wrap. Give it a stretc h till it reaches. The 
technique can take a few tries but in the end as long as it resembl es a cup that is what matters. Y ou can 
use foil balls (a sheet of foil crumpled up into a ball shape) to hold the prosciutto in plac e.
4. Bake for 10 minutes for a softer cups or as long as 15 minutes for a crispy shell.
5. Once baked, remove from the pan and place a spoonful of the cantaloupe mint salad in the cup.  I found 
I could fit 3 mini cantaloupe balls. 
6. Add a few pine nuts and drizzle the prosciutto and melon cups with balsamic vinegar.
Note: Proscuitto cups can be filled with other yummy ingredients such as goat cheese and figs or tom atoes and 
mozzarella.Prosciutto e Melone. Mmm! If you let me eat that every day of my life, I would. If you add crusty French bread 
to that, it would definitely be my “stranded on a desert island” meal. And the funny thi ng is, I’m not crazy about 
melon alone, just when it’s wrapped in prosciutto. Putting this traditional I talian appetizer into a muffin pan was 
a no-brainer for me. This new spin on a old classic will surely make a prosciutto and melo n fan out of anyone. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 pieces of prosciutto
1 whole cantaloupe, cubed or 
balled2 tbsp pine nuts
2 tbsp chopped mint
1 tbsp olive oil
Balsamic vinegarPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan83
Roasted Tomato Tarts  
 With Whipped Feta and Herb Oil
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F . Grease the wells of a 24-cup mini pan.
2. Place 24 tomatoes in a large bowl. Using the bottom of a glass or back of a wooden spoon, squi sh the 
tomatoes to remove the seeds and pulp. Rinse the tomatoes and set aside.
3. Using a pizza cutter or very sharp knife, cut the puff pastry into 6 strips and then cut acro ss 4 times, 
creating 24 squares. Place a square into each cup. Par bake for 7 minutes.
4. While in the oven, throw together the whipped feta. In a food processor or com pact blender with 
whipping attachment, add the whipping cream and feta. Whip for a minute or unti l stiff peaks. 
5. After 7 minutes, take the puff pastry out of the oven. Place a small dollop (very technic al term) of the 
whipped feta in each cup. Place a cherry tomato on top. 
6. For an extra boost of flavor, add a pinch of the chopped thyme to the top before backing . 
7. Put the tarts back in the oven for another 5–6 minutes. Check to see if the cheese is bubbl ing and the 
puff pastry is golden brown.
8. While that is in the oven, mix up the herb oil.
Note:  I really do think this recipe is pretty impressive. The herb oil and whipped feta make fo r a great appetizer 
in itself. Whatever you have leftover, toast up some French bread or sourdough an d serve with dinner. Or eat an 
entire loaf of bread with spread and oil in one sitting . . . W ait, what? No, I didn’t do tha t. When serving this appetizer, I always use the whole description. “Whipp ed feta and herb oil” just sounds so fancy 
and complicated. In actuality, they are some of the easiest things in th is book to make. And that’s just how I like 
my food: fancy sounding but easy to make.
Pan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 sheet puff pastry
24 cherry tomatoes
fresh thyme
Whipped Feta
1 ½ cups crumbled feta
½ cup whipping creamHerb Oil
1 cup fresh basil
2 tbsp pine nuts
½ cup fresh parsley
1 clove garlic
½ tsp lemon zest
1 tsp lemon juice
½ cup extra virgin olive oil
Salt and pepper to tasteYo u  
w i ll  
need:85
Salami Boats  
 with Antipasto Salad
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400 °F. While the oven is heating up, mix all the ingredients, excluding the grated 
Italian cheeses, in a large bowl. 
2. Place a piece of salami into the well of each muffin cup. T o keep the salami in its bowl shape, crumple u p 
a ball out of a piece of foil and place inside salami cup while it bakes.
3. Bake for 10–12 minutes or until the salami is crisp.
4. Let the salami cool before filling the cup with antipasto. T op with the grated chees e.
Note: If you have some of the antipasto mixture left over, I recommend throwing it into some pas ta. Hot or cold 
it’s definitely a winner!Almost every family get-together at my parent’s house includes a platter of assorte d Italian meats and cheeses from 
our neighborhood delicatessen, Lucca’s. Salami, prosciutto, cappicola , fontina, parmesan. (Oh, I am making myself 
hungry.) Very rarely are there leftovers so during the last party we had, I made sure to save some of the salami from 
the platter to try out on this dish.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 slices of genoa salami
1 cup cherry  
tomatoes, halved
I cup pearl mozzarella balls
½ cup of the following:
marinated artichokes
marinated mushrooms¼ cup of the following:
green olives
chopped pepperoncini
1 tbsp Italian seasoning
1 tbsp grated garlic
Shaved/grated Italian hard cheeses 
(pecorino romano, parmesan, 
asiago, etc.) as a garnishPans:  Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan87
Smoked Gouda and  
 Soyrizo Jalapeño Poppers
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease a mini muffin pan.
2. Brown soyrizo over medium heat. After 3 or 4 minutes, drain the soyrizo and place in a large mixing 
bowl. Add the gouda, onion, egg, cream cheese, sour cream, and hot sauce to the bowl. Mix al l the ingre -
dients together. Add salt and pepper to taste. 
3. Prepare the crescent dough by splitting each crescent triangle in half, creating two tr iangles. Place a tsp of 
the mixture into the center of the dough. Fold the three points into the center. P ress the seams together 
to create a seal. Place the dough, seam side down into the muffin pan.
4. Bake at 350°F for 10–12 minutes.
Note: If you have a hard time finding blocks of smoked gouda in the store, try heading over to the deli cou nter. Ask 
for ½ lb of the cheese, unsliced. If your local deli is like mine and without smoked gouda, a nd you don’t feel like 
driving all over the place for cheese, smoked gouda slices, very finely chopped, w ill work as well. The standard jalapeño poppers get kicked up with the edition of the soyrizo and smoked gou da. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
10 oz Soyrizo
1 can of crescent rolls
1 cup smoked gouda, shredded
¼ cup red onions, ﬁnely chopped
1 egg 4 oz cream cheese
3 tbsp sour cream
1 tbsp hot sauce
1–2 large jalapeno peppers, 
stemmed, seeded, and halved 
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan89
Mini  
 Spanikopita
Directions:
1. Preheat oven at 375°F and grease muffin pan with butter.
2. In a skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add both chopped onions and cook unt il tender, 3–4 
minutes.
3. In a large bowl, microwave spinach for 1–2 minutes. Line a strainer wit h several paper towels and pour 
in spinach. Gather the edges of the paper towel and squeeze the bundle of spinach ov er the strainer. For 
cooking in pastry it is important to have very dry spinach. Continue to squeeze the s pinach until all the 
water has been drained out.
4. Add the spinach back to the large bowl and add feta, ricotta, egg, and pine nuts. Add on ions to the bowl 
and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
5. Remove phyllo from the refrigerator and place on a cutting board. Using a sharp knife o r pizza cutter, cut 
8–9 sheets of phyllo into 4x4 inch squares.
6. Start by placing 2 squares of phyllo on the bottom of each muffin cup. Press into the botto m of the 
cup and dab or brush butter on the phyllo squares. Continue with another layer of 1–2 phyl lo squares, 
pressing down to create a cup, add more butter, and then a final layer of 1–2 sheets of phyll o and a touch 
more melted butter.
7. T o each phyllo cup, add a heaping tablespoon of spinach filling. Fold edges of  the phyllo down on top of 
the filling.
8. Bake for 15 minutes, or until the edges are golden brown.These little spinach feta pies work well in both a standard pan and a mini muffin pan. They are ve ry quick to put 
together.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 (10 oz) package frozen chopped 
spinach
1 small onion, ﬁnely chopped
3 green onions, whites only
Handful parsley, chopped
¼ tsp nutmeg4 oz feta, crumbled
½ cup ricotta or cottage cheese
1 egg, beaten
¼ cup pine nuts
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 box phyllo, thawed
4 tbsp butter, meltedPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan91
Creamy  
 Southwest Beggar’s Purse
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and grease a 12-cup mini muffin pan.
2. Divide a sheet of puff pastry into 12 small squares. Fill each puff pastry square before placin g in the 
muffin pan. Place one cube of avocado and ½ tsp each of cream cheese and salsa. T op with several piec es 
of green onion.
3. Bring the four corners of the puff pastry to the top around the toppings, pressing the s ides together, and 
place in a muffin cup. Using the green part of a green onion, wrap the top, where the puff p astry corners 
meet, like a gift bag.
4. Bake for 20 minutes.These beggar’s purses are great for entertaining. I like to make large batches and free ze some for future parties.
Pan: Mini 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 sheets of puff pastry
½ avocado, cubed
¼ cup cream cheese
¼ chipotle salsa2 green onions, whites 
chopped, greens reserved
Handful cilantro, chopped
1 egg, beaten
Salt and pepper, to tasteYo u  
w i ll  
need:93
Caprese  
 Polenta Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350 °F and grease a mini muffin pan and line a baking sheet with a silpat or parchment 
paper.
2. Cut tomatoes in half lengthwise, then place in a medium sized mixing bowl and toss with o live oil, 
balsamic, and garlic. Spread tomatoes out on prepared baking sheet, sprinkle with sal t and pepper, and 
bake for 35–40 minutes, or until soft and slightly blistered.
3. Place cubed polenta in a microwave safe dish. Heat for 2 minutes and stir with a fork until m ushy.
4. Fill the cups halfway with the soft polenta. Add a mozzarella pearl.
5. Bake the polenta for 13–15 minutes, or until the cheese is melted.
6. Serve warm polenta cup topped with a roasted tomato and a slice of fresh basil, usi ng a toothpick to hold 
it all in place.This recipe is perfect for a small dinner party. Prepare the polent a in advance so that when the guests arrive you 
can finish off this dish quickly. I like serving it as a side dish with rosemary roasted ch icken and grilled asparagus 
but also makes a great appetizer. Red wine optional but highly recommended . 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 oz (½ lb tube) of precooked 
Polenta, cubed
12 mozzarella pearls
12 cherry tomatoes2 ½ tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
3 cloves garlic, minced
Salt and pepper, to taste
3–4 leaves of basil, chiffonadePan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan95
Apricot Brie Tarts  
 with Chipotle Honey Almonds
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and line a baking tray with your silpat or parchment paper.
2. Melt the butter in a pan over medium heat until it starts to give off a yummy nutty smell. It shou ld only 
take a few minutes to brown the butter. Careful not to let the butter burn. When you fe el it is done, take 
the pan off the heat. Add the almonds to the pan and coat with the browned butter. 
3. T urn the almonds out on the baking dish and bake for 10 minutes. Meanwhile prepare your spice mix -
ture. In a bowl large enough to hold all the almonds, add the chipotle powder, sugar, sal t, garlic powder, 
and cinnamon. Give it a quick mix with a fork to ensure the mixture is well combined. T ake the t ray from 
the oven and give the almonds a stir to ensure no sides are getting too brown.
4. Put the tray back in the oven for another 5 minutes.
5. After 5 minutes, take the almonds from the oven and pour into the bowl with the spices. G ive the 
almonds a quick toss in the mixture until completely coated.
6. T urn the oven up to 400°F and grease a 24-cup mini muffin pan.
7. Allow the almonds to cool for a little while the puff pastry is prepared. Using a sharp k nife or pizza 
cutter, cut the puff pastry into 24 squares.
8. Place one square of puff pastry into the well of each cup.
9. Into each puff pastry square add one cube of brie, 1 tsp of chipot le almonds and finally top it with a 
halved apricot. 
10. Cook at 400 °F for 11–13 minutes. Keep an eye on the dish so it doesn’t get too brown. With the sugar 
in the apricot and almonds this dish has a tendency to burn. Start with 11 minutes and add mo re time 
from there.While brainstorming one afternoon, my friend Kelly and I tried to come up with a recipe to u se some leftover brie 
from a dinner party. This recipe was the brainchild of that conversation. She sugges ted, in a very convincing way, 
that apricots and brie make a killer combination and I had to agree. We threw around some oth er ingredients 
to add to it and landed on chipotle almonds. The spice really makes the dish stand out. The resul t is sweet chewy 
apricots, salty creamy brie, and spicy crunchy chipotle almonds. It really is killer . 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
I roll of puff pastry, thawed in fridge
150 g of brie cheese, about a 2 in 
slice, cubed into 24 pieces
12 dried apricots, sliced half 
lengthwise
1 cup sliced almonds2 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tbsp honey
1 tsp chipotle pepper powder
1 tsp sugar
½ tsp salt
¼ tsp garlic powder
¼ tsp cinnamonPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan97
Chicken  
 Parmesan Cracker Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a mini muffin pan.
2. In a pie plate beat together eggs and water until well combined. Place 12 crackers, or as man y as will fit, 
in the pie pan. Let the crackers stand for 4 minutes, turning once at 2 minutes. Repeat w ith the final 12 
crackers.
3. Carefully place one cracker into the well of a mini muffin cup.
4. Bake crackers for 30 minutes.
5. Remove pan from the oven. Carefully add a cube of chicken, ½ tsp of sauce on top of the chic ken. Finally 
top with mozzarella and a sprinkle of seasonings.
6. Bake for an additional 5–6 minutes, until cheese is bubbly and brown. These cracker cups always come with the same question “How did you get the cracker into the muffi n cups?” Well 
here is the secret: By soaking the crackers they become pliable enough to be placed into th e muffin cup. Once they 
are baked, they become crunchy again but hold the cup shape.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
24 roasted garlic woven wheat 
crackers
2 eggs
½ cup water24 mozzarella pearls
1 cup chicken, cooked  
and diced
¼ cup pasta sauce
½ Italian seasonings  Pan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan99
BLAT Chicken  
 Salad in Wonton Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and spray a standard muffin pan.
2. Place 2–3 wrappers in the wells of the muffin pan, overlapping them to fit to create a cup.
3. Spray the wonton cup with cooking spray to protect them from burning.
4. Bake for 10–13 minutes, until the edges begin to brown and the cups are crispy.
5. While the wonton cups bake, prepare the chicken salad.
6. In a large bowl, add the avocado cubes and mash with a fork. Add in the cilantro, green o nions, and lime 
juice and mix together.
7. Add in the chicken, tomatoes, and bacon and give the whole mixture a good stir.
8. Place a generous amount of lettuce into each cup.
9. Divide the chicken salad amongst the cups and serve immediately.
Note: Use one won ton wrapper for mini muffin pan to make it a appetizer. Y ou can make th e chicken salad the 
night before. Bake the cups the day of and fill for a party or dinner. I am not a picky eater. There is very little I refuse to eat and I will always try food offered to me. The one exce ption, 
however, is mayonnaise. I really, really don’t like mayo. So naturally, I wa s never a big fan of chicken or tuna 
salad. Then I discovered the beauty of avocado chicken salad. It has the cr eaminess of a traditional chicken salad 
but without all the mayo. Hurray for avocados!
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
Wonton wrappers
2 cups chicken, shredded
2 avocados, cubed
2 tbsp cilantro, chopped
2 green onions, chopped
1 lime, juiced1 tomato, diced
4 strips of bacon, cooked 
and chopped
Salt & pepper, to taste
1 cup of lettuce or cabbage, 
shredded and choppedYo u  
w i ll  
need:101
Itty Bitty  
 Lobsta Rolls
Directions:
1. Preheat oven 350°F and spray 6 wells of a standard muffin pan.
2. Butter both sides of the bread. Cut the bread into a square by cutting off the crusts. Pla ce the bread in 
the muffin cups.
3. Bake for 8–10 minutes, or until golden brown
4. In a bowl, combine lobster, mayonnaise, Old Bay, lemon juice, chives and salt.
5. When the bread bowls are finished, allow them to cool completely. Fill the bread bo wls with lobster 
mixture. Garnish with chives.Every summer my big Italian family gets together on the Cape for a family reunion. We swim , catch up, go to the 
movies, share stories, and soak in family time. It’s just plain wonderful. One of my f avorite parts about being back 
east, besides hanging out with my family, is the food. My Uncle Carl makes qua hogs casinos and hot wieners, we all 
go out to get pizza, ice cream, frozen lemonade, clam cakes, and the ultimate treat . . . lobs ter rolls. I look forward 
to these every year. This year, the year this cookbook comes out, I will hav e to miss the reunion. I made these mini 
lobster rolls in honor of my fun family. I love you guys. I’ll see you all next year!
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 slices sourdough or white bread 
butter
½ lb cooked lobster meat, chopped
1 stalk celery, diced2 tbsp mayonnaise or greek yogurt
¼ tsp Old Bay seasoning
2 tbsp lemon juice
2 tbsp chives, chopped
1 tsp sea saltPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan103
Mini Corn  
 and Crab Cakes
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and generously butter a mini muffin pan.
2. In a food processor or using a hand-held mixer and medium sized bowl, beat the cream cheese until 
smooth. Add ¼ cup of parmesan and egg and blend. Mix in sour cream, zests,  1 tablespoon chives, salt, 
and cayenne. Using a fork, coarsely shred the crab meat. Fold in the shredded crab mea t and the corn 
kernels.
3. Cover the bowl and chill while you prepare the bread crumbs.
4. In a small bowl, toss the remaining ½ cup of parmesan, panko, and the re maining 2 tablespoons of 
chives together. Drizzle melted butter over the panko mixture and toss with a fork unt il evenly coated 
and moistened. Press one tablespoon of the panko mixture into the muffin cup, creat ing a crust. Scoop a 
little more than a tablespoon of the crab and corn mixture into the panko crust. T op the cra bmeat with 
a tsp of the panko mixture.
5. Bake for 30 minutes or until the panko topping is golden brown. Allow t he Mini crab cakes to cool in 
the pan for 5 minutes before de-panning. Run a knife around the edge of the muffin cup to help l ift the 
crab cake from the pan. My sister and I have this weird thing about crab cakes and corn. As a San Franciscan, I love cr ab and crab 
cakes. My sister Becky does not. She loves corn from a can. I do not. Seemingly unrelated b ut it’s one of 
those weird sister inside jokes from when we were kids. Y ou had to pick a side: Corn or Cr ab Cakes. We’ve had 
a weird battle ever since. It’s definitely silly sister stuff but if you have a sister, yo u probably have your own weird 
things. Well, the irony is that you don’t really need to choose one or the other when it comes to cor n and crab. 
They actually compliment each other very well, just like my sister and I do. So here is my version of a mini crab 
AND corn cake; the best of both worlds for my little sister. 
“Y ou and me baby, we’re stuck like glue. ” Love you, Sis.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
8 oz cream cheese, room 
temperature
1 cup parmesan cheese
1 large egg
¼ cup sour cream
1 tsp orange zest
1 tsp lemon zest3 tbsp chives, plus more  
for garnish
¼ kosher salt
¼ tsp cayenne pepper
8 oz lump crab meat, patted dry
¼ cup corn, charred
½ cup panko bread crumbs
2 tbsp unsalted butter, meltedPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan TK?105Caramelized Onion &  
 Balsamic Fig Hand Pies
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F and butter a standard muffin pan.
2. In a skillet, over medium-high heat, heat sugar until melted and light brown, about 3 minut es. Add 
onions and stir with a wooden spoon until coated with sugar. Add butter, bakin g soda, salt and pepper. 
Stir onions and continue to cook until all the liquid is cooked out. There should be a br own coating on 
the bottom of the pan after 6–8 minutes.
3. T o deglaze the pan, add 1 tablespoon of water and scrape brown bits off the bottom of the p an. Stir 
occasionally until coating begins to appear again, an additional 3 minutes. Add one m ore tablespoon of 
water and scrape the pan down again. Repeat this process, cook for 3 minutes or so until co ating forms, 
add water, scrape down until all the water is used and onions are a rich deep brown colo r. Remove from 
the pan and allow to rest in a bowl at room temperature. 
4. In a large bowl, mix together figs with the balsamic, sugar, honey, thyme, and salt in a medium bo wl. 
Allow the figs to macerate in the balsamic mixture for about 15 minutes. The mixture can sit overnig ht 
if preparing this dish the night before.
5. In the meantime, prepare the phyllo cups.
6. Put one pastry sheet on a cutting board. Brush with a little melted butter and top wi th a second sheet. 
Brush again with butter and top with the third sheet. Fold pastry in half, short end to s hort end. Lay the 
phyllo over the openings of 6 muffin cups. Brush with a little more butter and gentl y press into the muf -
fin cups. Repeat the process with 3 more layers of buttered phyllo, folded and pla ced over the remaining 
6 cups. Place in the fridge. Carmelized onions, figs and goat cheese? It really doesn’t get much better than that.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 sheets of phyllo, thawed
1 tsp sugar 
1 large yellow onion, thinly sliced
1 tbsp butter, plus more for the mufﬁn 
pan
1⁄8 tsp baking soda
1 tsp salt
2 cups ﬁgs, coarsely chopped1⁄8 cup balsamic vinegar
2 tbsp sugar
1⁄8 cup honey
2 tsp thyme
1⁄8 tsp salt
2 tbsp cornstarch
4 tbsp butter
½ cup goat cheesePan: 1 Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
106
7. When you are ready to prepare the hand pies, carefully pour out 2 tablespoons of the liqui d from the figs 
and mix in the cornstarch to thicken the filling. Add caramelized onions to the bowl and m ix together.
8. Spoon a heaping tablespoon of the mixture into the phyllo cups. Add a dollop, a bout 2 tsps, of goat 
cheese on top of the fig and onion mixture.
9. Create 2 more phyllo stacks, layered, buttered, and folded the same as the bottom la yer. 
10. Brush more butter around the edges of the phyllo cup openings.  Lay the second two stacks of phyllo 
on top and press to seal. Brush the remaining butter over the top and season with salt. Trim any p hyllo 
hanging over the edge of the muffin pan.
11. Bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown and crisp. T urn the pastry out onto a cutt ing board and using 
a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut the pastry into 12 hand pies.
106
Side Dishes
Bacon Jalapeño Cheddar Cornbread Muffins  .......................... 111
Avocado and Bean Salsa in Tortilla Cups  .................................... 113
Brown Butter Sage Sweet Potato Puffs with  
 Goat Cheese and Roasted Grapes  ............................................. 115
Brown Sugar Baked Beans in Bacon Bowls  .............................. 117
Mini Brussels Sprout Gratin  .................................................................. 119
Crispy Cheesy Potato Cups  ..................................................................... 123
Loaded Mashed Potato Puffs  ............................................................... 125
Muffin Pan Latkes with Cranberry-Apple Compote  ............ 127
Freezer Minestrone Soup  ........................................................................ 129
Spicy Quinoa Bites  ........................................................................................ 131
Mini Cheesy Ranch Broccoli Rice Bake  ......................................... 133
Garlic Shrimp and Chive Muffins  ...................................................... 135
Parmesan Cheese Cups with Dijon Brussels  
 Sprout Salad  .............................................................................................. 137
Cheesy Herb Popovers  .............................................................................. 139
Mini Pastalone  ................................................................................................. 141
Sausage and Mushroom Stuffin’ Muffins  ................................... 143
Belly Up to the Mini Mac and Cheese Bar  ................................. 145111Bacon Jalapeño  
 Cheddar Cornbread Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F and grease the muffin pan.
2. In a skillet, cook the bacon until crisp and set aside on a plate with a paper towel. Reser ve the drippings.
3. In a large bowl, mix together egg and buttermilk. T o that, stir in contents of corn muffin m ix and 2 
 tablespoon of the reserved bacon drippings. 
4. Chop the bacon into small pieces and fold into corn muffin mixture. Finally, fold in jalapeñ o and cheese 
into the mix and stir until combined. The amount of jalapeño depends on taste. T o ach ieve crowns, or 
rounded tops, on the corn muffins, allow the batter to rest 3–4 minutes before baking.
5. Divide batter evenly among the 12 cups. 
6. Bake for 15–18 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the muffin comes o ut clean. As a kid, my brother Joey wanted to be a firefighter. At six years old, it i sn’t that unique. As a teacher I hear kids 
say they want to be a firefighter or police officer, basketball player , “animal doctor, ” or a fairy princess ninja warrior, 
of course. While kids grow up, go to school, and change their mind a hun dred times, my brother held on to that 
dream of being a firefighter. When he was accepted into the SFFD Fire Reserve I was a very pro ud big sister. That 
is why I dedicate this recipe to him. When I think of firefighters, I think of firefighte rs in the kitchen cooking chili for 
each other in their down time. Doesn’t everyone? And when I think of a good pot of chili, it is hard not to think of 
cornbread. My brother is a good cook in his own right so I imagine any station he lands in he’ll impress even the vet -
erans with his own dishes. But I hope, as a proud younger brother, he’ll show off a few of his big sis ter's recipes too.
Love you, Joe. 
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
2 (8.5 oz) boxes corn 
mufﬁn mix
2 eggs
²⁄³ cup buttermilk4 slices of bacon
½ cup cheddar cheese, 
shredded
½ –1 jalapeño, seeded and 
dicedYo u  
w i ll  
need:
A little know how:  No buttermilk? No problem. Buttermilk is easily made using items you probabl y already 
have on hand. Fill a ⅓ measuring cup almost to the top with milk, fill the rest of the space with lemon j uice. 
Allow the mixture to sit while you cook the bacon. That’ll give it enough time to set.113Avocado and Bean  
 Salsa in Tortilla Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350 °F and lightly spray down your choice of pan.
2. In a large bowl, mix the beans, onion, jalapeño, cilantro, lime juice, tomatoes, and avo cado. Drizzle in the 
vinegar and oil and toss together. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cover with plastic wr ap and place in the 
 refrigerator while tortillas bake up.
3. In two batches of 6, cover the tortillas in a damp paper towel and heat in the microwave for 30 sec onds. 
This makes them more pliable. 
4. When the oven is ready, place each tortilla in the well of the muffin pan. Y ou will have to fold o ne of the 
sides in to make it fit.
5. Bake for 20–25 minutes until they are crispy.
6. Allow for the cups to cool. Add a spoonful or two of bean salsa into each tortilla cup. These bean and tortilla cups are crazy simple and delicious. And healthy too! They make a great addi tion to 
enchilada night or a side dish for fajitas. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 corn tortillas (store bought or home-
made see Huevos Rancheros recipe 
on p. 28)
1 can (15 oz) pinto beans, drained and 
rinsed
½ - 1 whole jalapeño, diced
1 avocado, diced into small ½ inch 
squares½ a lime, juiced
1 cup of cherry tomatoes, halved
½ cup red onion, chopped
¼ cup cilantro, chopped
3–4 tbsp champagne, rice wine, or 
white balsamic vinegar
1–2 tbsp olive oil
Salt and Pepper, to taste
Fresh cheese, like cotija, crumbledPan: Standard 12-cup or 2 jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pans
Mix It Up:  Both the standard and the jumbo muffin pans work well for this recipe. I suggest both because they 
offer very different shapes. The smaller pan is perfect for holding in the hand while the l arger pan allows for a 
flat bottom, which is better for serving on a plate. 
I like this recipe because it really is up to you how you make the salsa. Like bell peppers? A dd them. W ant 
some cheese, maybe some cotija? Add it. No vinegar around? Leave it out. It’ll taste gr eat however you make it. 
115
Brown Butter Sage  
 Sweet Potato Puffs with  
  Goat Cheese and Roasted Grapes
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F and grease muffin pan.
2. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together eggs and sour cream. Mix in cheeses and thyme.
3. If using leftover sweet potatoes, taste to see if they need any salt or pepper. Wh en satisfied, add potatoes 
to bowl and mix well.
4. In a separate bowl, coat grapes in olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spread g rapes out on a 
greased baking sheet.
5. Divide the potatoes into the muffin cups and put both the baking sheet and muffin pan into the ov en.
6. Bake for 30 minutes or until the potatoes begin to pull away from the sides of the cup an d turn golden 
brown, this is also when the grapes begin to burst.
7. Remove both pans from the oven. Allow the grapes to cool slightly.
8. Serve sweet potatoes topped with roasted grapes and drizzled with honey.I adore sweet potatoes. Add goat cheese to them and some brown buttered sage and I am in heaven! Y ou might be 
too after you try these.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 eggs
1⁄3 cup goat cheese
2 tbsp parmesan, grated
3 cups of mashed sweet potatoes
1 tbsp fresh thyme, chopped2 tbsp butter
2 tbsp sage, ﬁnely sliced
2 cups red grapes
1 tbsp olive oil
Salt & pepper, to taste
HoneyPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan 117Brown Sugar Baked  
 Beans in Bacon Bowls
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 325°F and grease a small baking dish.
2. In a large skillet, preferably cast iron, fry bacon until partially cooked. Remov e bacon to a plate to drain. 
Reserve the drippings. T o the same pan add the onions and cook until tender. Once t he onions are 
cooked, add the beans, bbq sauce, brown sugar, vinegar, and dry mustard to the pan. Mix in gredients 
together and bring the whole pan to a simmer.
3. T urn the heat off and move the beans to the baking dish. Mix bacon into the beans, and bake at 325°F 
oven for 50 minutes. 
4. When the beans are cooked, raise the oven heat to 400°F and grease a 6-cup standard muffin pan.
5. Each muffin cup gets 3 halves or 1 ½ pieces of bacon in total. Cut all the slices of bacon in half. Place two 
halves of bacon on the bottom of each cup in an X shape. Stretch the bacon up the sides. T ake the remaining 
half and stretch it around the inside of the muffin cup. Press pieces of  bacon together as firmly as possible. 
The fat in the bacon will help the piece stick together. Y ou can also use a fork to press the fa t together. 
6. T o ensure it holds its cup shape, loosely ball up a piece of foil and place in the center of t he bacon cups. 
This will help ensure the bacon doesn’t curl up.
7. Bake bacon bowls for 20–25 minutes, or until the bowls are crisp. Bacon will continue t o cook outside 
of the oven. Some people like crispier bacon than others. Cook it to your preferen ce. Then add the beans 
and enjoy.I am a huge fan of bacon. I have several recipes in this cookbook featuring bacon. So, creat ing a serving dish made 
entirely of bacon seemed like the next logical step in my obsession. Baked beans mad e with more bacon also seemed 
like a perfectly normal amount of bacon to me. I imagine these bean bowls being served u p at a backyard BBQ, 
complete with ribs, corn on the cob, and lots and lots of napkins.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 cans (29 oz can) can of baked 
beans
3 slices thick-cut bacon
½ onion, chopped¼ cup barbecue sauce
3 tbsp brown sugar
1 tbsp cider vinegar
½ tsp dry mustard
9 slices of bacon, for bowlsPan: Standard 6-cup mufﬁn pan
119
Mini Brussels  
 Sprout Gratin
Directions:
1. Preheat oven 400°F and spray a standard muffin pan and baking sheet. 
2. On a piece of foil, place cloves of garlic and drizzle with 2 tablespoons of olive oil. F old foil over and create 
a pouch around the garlic. Seal up the edges and roast in the oven for 15 minutes. Remove fro m oven and 
allow to cool. Remove garlic from foil and press clove from the peel. Set garlic aside.
3. In a large mixing bowl, toss sprouts with a tablespoon of olive oil, salt, and pepper. Spr ead sprouts out in 
a single layer on greased baking sheet. Roast at 400°F for 10 minutes, or until sprouts are bro wned. 
Transfer Brussels sprouts into a large bowl. 
4. In a large pan over medium high heat, sauté shallots and bacon, stirring frequently. Saut é until bacon is 
cooked and shallots begin to caramelize, about 4 minutes. Add 1 tablespoon of lemo n zest and the cloves 
of roasted garlic. Deglaze the pan with lemon juice. Stir and remove pan from heat. Po ur contents of the 
pan into the bowl with the Brussels sprouts. Stir the contents together. Set asi de.
5. In a large saucepan over medium high heat, melt 1 tablespoon butter and add flour to make a roux. Coo k 
for 30 seconds, until it's light brown. Add cream and thyme leaves, stirring to avoid lum ps. Continue to 
stir for 2 minutes until it starts to simmer. In a small bowl stir together 1 tablespo on of water and 2 tsps 
of cornstarch to make a slurry. Mix well. Add the slurry to the cream and stir. The cream sauce shou ld Please don’t let the laundry list of ingredients scare you off from trying this dish. The a dded touches of lemon zest, 
parsley, and bacon give the Brussels sprouts a huge flavor boost. Try serving it at yo ur next dinner party. It is sure 
to be a big hit.
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 lb. Brussels sprouts, rinsed, peeled and 
quartered
5–6 cloves garlic, whole and unpeeled
3 tbsp olive oil
6 shallots, peeled and thinly sliced
3 slices bacon, chopped
1 tbsp lemon juice
1 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tsp ﬂour
1 cup heavy cream2 sprigs thyme, whole
1 tbsp water
2 tsp cornstarch
1 cup parmesan cheese, grated
½ cup panko bread crumbs
2 tsp parsley, ﬁnely chopped
2 tsp lemon zest
3 tbsp gruyere cheese, grated
1 tsp salt
¼ tsp pepper
2 tsp unsalted butter, meltedYo u  
w i ll  
need:120
start to thicken. Remove the pan from the heat and remove the sprigs of thyme. Return t o the heat and 
add the parmesan cheese. Stir until cheese has melted. Season with salt and pepper to ta ste.
6. Carefully pour the cream sauce into the bowl with the Brussels sprouts and gently fold toge ther.
7. Scoop the mixture into the cups of the muffin pan, filling them to the top. Press lightly t o pack the 
 Brussels sprouts into the bottom.
8. In a small bowl, mix together parsley, remaining 1 tablespoon lemon zest, gruyer e, melted butter and salt 
and pepper to taste. Sprinkle the mixture on top of the Brussels sprouts. Spray a sh eet of foil and cover 
the muffin pan, sprayed side down.
9. Bake covered for 15 minutes. Uncover and bake for an additional 5 minutes, or until top is b rowned. 
Allow the tray to rest for 10 minutes and serve from the muffin pan.
120
123
Crispy Cheesy  
 Potato Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425 °F, move oven rack to lowest position, and grease a standard muffin pan with butter. 
2. Pulse panko crumbs in a food processor until finely ground and press ground panko int o the sides of 
the cup. 
3. In a large microwave safe bowl, combine potatoes, half & half, salt, and pepper. Cover the bo wl with 
plastic wrap and microwave for 12–15 minutes, just until tender. Stir once.
4. While the potatoes are in the microwave, in a separate bowl, combine shredded c heese, parmesan, and 
cornstarch. Scoop ⅓ cup of the mixture and reserve for a topping.
5. When the potatoes are done, add the remaining cheese mixture to the b owl and stir until smooth. Evenly 
divide the potato mixture among the 12 cups. T op with the reserved cheese.
6. Spray the underside of a large piece of foil with cooking spray. Cover the pota toes, greased side down.
7. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove foil and bake for an additional 13–15 minutes, or until golden bro wn.
8. Run a knife around the potato cup. Allow to cool slightly in the muffin pan. T urn pota toes out on to a 
serving tray. Allow to cool for additional 5 minutes before serving. If I had to choose a signature dish, I think this would be it. This is the dish that started my interes t in cooking with 
the muffin pan. It was the first dish I made in the muffin pan for my family. I saw a similar dish bein g made on a 
cooking show and was instantly inspired. I looked up the recipe online and c ooked it right away for dinner. As I im -
proved my cooking skills I started to make the recipe my own. I included cornstarch to he lp bind the potatoes better, 
added bacon because I love it, and experimented with different cheeses. I am really h appy with this final version.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
½ cup panko bread crumbs
1 tbsp unsalted butter, softened
2 lbs russet potatoes, peeled and 
cubed
1 ¼ cup half and half
1 ¼ tsp salt¾ tsp pepper
1 1⁄3 cups swiss and gruyere cheese, 
shredded
²⁄³ cup Parmesan cheese, grated
2 tsp cornstarch
½ cup bacon, cooked  
and crumbledPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan125Loaded Mashed  
 Potato Puffs
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F and grease muffin pan.
2. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together eggs and sour cream. Mix in cheeses and chives.
3. If using leftover mashed potatoes, taste the potatoes to see if they need any salt or p epper. When satisfied, 
add potatoes to bowl and mix well.
4. Divide the potatoes into the muffin cups.
5. Bake 30 minutes or until the potatoes begin to pull away from the sides of the cup and turn golden 
brown.
6. Let the puffs cool for several minutes in the pan.If there was ever a perfect treat for a Super Bowl party, this reci pe is it. Potatoes, bacon, cheese, and sour cream . . . 
a winning combination! Throw in some chives for good measure and you have yoursel f a recipe touchdown!
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 eggs 
1⁄3 cup sour cream 
1 cup sharp cheddar cheese, 
shredded
2 tbsp parmesan, grated2 tbsp chives, chopped
3 strips of bacon, cooked and 
crumbled
3 cups mashed potatoes 
Salt & pepper, to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan, nonstick
127Muffin Pan Latkes with  
 Cranberry-Apple Compote
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a 12-cup muffin pan. 
2. In a large bowl, add the ingredients for the latkes and mix together. Divide potatoes am ong the 12 cups 
and press firmly into the cup.
3. Bake for 45–50 minutes. 
4. While the potatoes are cooking, prepare the cranberry-apple compote. In a sau ce pan, combine the 
ingredients for the compote and cook over medium heat until all the cranberries pop . Cook for additional 
5–10 minutes. The sauce should be thick but still chunky. Remove from heat and cool.
5. At 45 minutes, check to see if the edges of potatoes are beginn ing to brown. The edges should be a deep 
golden brown but not burnt. Allow the potatoes to sit for 10 minutes before remo ving from pan.
6. Serve latkes with compote and sour cream.I built this recipe around the shredded hash browns. I love frozen hash browns and I wa nted a dish that utilized 
them. I decided to make my own muffin pan latkes. I top them with this tart cranberry-apple compote, wh ich I 
think really compliments the potatoes. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 (20 oz) bag frozen shredded hash browns
1 onion, chopped
1 egg
1 tbsp all purpose ﬂour
½ cup Parmesan cheese, grated
1 green onion, chopped
1 tbsp canola or olive oil
½ tsp salt
Pepper, to tasteCranberry-Apple Compote
1 package (12 ounces) fresh or frozen 
cranberries
2 medium apples, peeled, cored, and 
diced into ½-inch chunks
¼ cup brown sugar
1 tbsp grated ginger (optional: use 1–2 
tsps ground ginger instead)
Zest of one orange
¼ cup orange juice
1 tsp cinnamon
¼ tsp saltPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
129
Freezer Minestrone Soup
Directions:
1. In a large soup pot, heat olive oil over medium high heat.
2. Saute onions and green beans in the soup pot for 5 minutes, or until onions are soft.
3. Add broth, beans, diced tomatoes with the liquid, tomato paste, carrots, hot wa ter, parsley, oregano, basil, 
thyme, and pepper.
4. Bring the whole mixture to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes.
5. Add zucchini and garlic and continue to cook for an additional 20 minutes, or until the soup r eaches the 
desired consistency.
6. Remove the pot from the heat and allow it to reach room temperature, uncovered. S tir the pot occasionally 
to release more heat.
7. When the soup has reached room temperature, fill the silicone muffin cups and freeze , uncovered.
8. Once the soup is frozen, pop them out of the tray and place in a zip top bag to store. Press o ut as much 
as air as you can from the bag before returning to the freezer. Label the bag with the date.  Frozen soup 
can last 6–8 weeks.
9. When you are ready to eat, take out the desired number of soup cups and reheat in the microwav e. Half 
way through, add desired amount of pasta and continue to cook until the soup i s nice and hot. T op with 
parmesan cheese. I make a lot of soups. Whenever I have leftover food like pasta, beans, sausage, spinach, e tc., I throw it in a pot and 
call it soup. This recipe is for all the other soup lovers out there. This soup freezes really we ll and the muffin pan is 
a great way to portion out the just the right amount. 
Pan: Silicone mufﬁn pan, standard 12-cup or jumbo 6-cup
Ingredients:
2 tbsp olive oil
1 small onion, minced
½ cup Italian green beans, cut and frozen
4 cups low sodium vegetable broth
1 (15 oz) can red kidney beans, drained
1 (15 oz) can cannellini beans, drained
1 (14 oz) can diced tomatoes
1 (8 oz) can tomato paste
½ cup carrot, shredded
2 cups hot water2 tbsp fresh parsley, minced
1 ½ tsp dried oregano
½ tsp dried basil
¼ tsp dried thyme
½ tsp pepper
½ cup red wine
4 cloves garlic, minced 
1 medium zucchini, thinly sliced
Salt, to taste
Small shell pasta, cooked al dente
Parmesan cheese, gratedYo u  
w i ll  
need:
Note: There are several additions you can make to this soup. If you like your soup with celery , add ½ stalk sliced 
when sautéing the onions and green beans. T wo cups spinach of fresh spinach can be use d when the zucchini and 
garlic is added to the pot. Y ou can omit the wine if you desire. This method w orks for freezing stock as well. I often 
use cheese tortellini instead of shell pasta when making this dish. It makes this dis h less healthy but more hearty! 131
Spicy Quinoa Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a mini muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl, stir together all the listed ingredients. The mixture should be thick and st ick to the spoon. 
If the mixture seems too loose, add more breadcrumbs until it reaches the desire d sticky consistency.
3. Using a mini cookie scoop or tablespoon, spoon the mixture into the 24 cups. Firml y press the quinoa 
down. Add more quinoa if there is space and press into the cup.
4. Bake for 15–20 minutes, or until the edges begin to brown. Rotate the pan halfway through.
5. Allow the quinoa bites to rest for 5 minutes in the pan before removing. I have become such a fan of quinoa. I like to have it on hand for veggie bowls or salads like the C itrus Shrimp T aco 
Salad on pg TK. It makes a wonderful alternative to rice and is great kept in the freezer. Wh en the mood strikes 
you, take some quinoa and mix up a batch of these spicy quinoa bites. Feel free to mix up the herbs an d cheese. Y ou 
could even add 1–2 cups of carrots, broccoli, or zucchini to this recipe if you wanted to make them real ly healthy. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 cups cooked quinoa
¾ cups swiss, gruyere cheese or 
cheddar cheese, shredded
2 eggs, beaten
2 green onion, thinly sliced1 clove garlic, minced
1 tbsp cilantro, chopped
1 tbsp honey
1 ½–2 tbsp sriracha
½ tsp salt
½ cup panko bread crumbsPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan133Mini Cheesy Ranch  
 Broccoli Rice Bake
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl, mix together rice, broccoli, one cup of cheese, dressing, eg gs, salt, and pepper until  
well combined. 
3. Divide the rice among the 12 cups. T op with the remaining cup of cheese. 
4. Bake for 25–30 minutes, or until edges begin to brown. 
5. Run a knife around the edge to remove cleanly.
Note:  I usually use leftover rice for these and often switch up the cheese based on what I have on ha nd. Add left -
over chicken or ham to this dish. Cook rice with broth for a richer flavor.These brown rice broccoli cups are a great way to get children to eat veggies. I kn ow for me, as a kid, if you covered 
it in cheese, I’d eat almost anything. These are no exception. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 cups brown rice, cooked
2 cups broccoli, thawed and dry 
or fresh2 cups shredded cheddar cheese
½ cup ranch dressing
4 eggs, beaten
Salt and pepper, to taste Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan 
135
Garlic Shrimp  
 and Chive Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and grease a muffin pan or line with baking cups.
2. In a cast iron skillet over medium heat, sauté butter and garlic for 30 seconds. Add shrimp and cook for 
3–4 minutes. Remove from heat and add some salt to taste.
3. In a bowl, combine flour, baking powder, salt, pepper, lemon zest, and chives.
4. In a separate bowl whisk together milk, melted butter, and egg. Pour the wet in gredients into the dry and 
mix thoroughly.
5. Chop half the shrimp and add it to the batter. At this point the mixture is very thick,  like a bread dough. 
I recommend using your hands to mix it. Split the other six shrimp down the middle. 
6. Fill the cups with batter ¾ full. Place one half of shrimp on top of the batter.
7. Bake for 20–25 minutes or until golden brown. Insert a toothpick into the center unt il it comes out clean. Y ou read that correctly—this muffin has shrimp in it. Butter, garlic, and chives com plement the shrimp in this 
muffin. Great for serving with a bisque or creamy soup. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 medium shrimp, tails removed
4 cloves garlic, minced
2 tbsp butter
2 cups ﬂour
¼ cup sugar
3 tsp baking powder½ tsp salt
1 tsp pepper
1 tbsp lemon zest
2 tbsp chives, chopped
¾ cup milk
1⁄3 cup butter, melted
1 egg, beatenPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan137
Parmesan Cheese Cups with  
 Dijon Brussels Sprout Salad
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 325°F .
2. In a bowl, soak onion slices in cold water for 15 to 20 minutes while you prepare the other i ngredients. 
3. On a baking sheet, spread almond slices in a single layer. Drizzle the almonds with oliv e oil and a generous 
amount of coarse sea salt.
4. T oast almonds for 10–12 minutes or until light golden brown. Stir half way through.
5. On two separate baking sheets make six ¼ cup mounds of parmesan cheese on each tray, 12 in all. Gent ly 
pat the cheese to form thin circles. Sprinkle with pepper.
6. Bake for 8–10 minutes, or until the circle begin to brown. With the muffin pan ready, remov e baking 
sheets from the oven using a spatula and quickly place cheese circl es into the wells of the muffin pan. 
Gently press into the bottom of the muffin cup. 
7. In a small bowl, whisk together lemon juice, mustard, salt, and pepper to taste. Whisk in olive oil until 
the dressing emulsifies.
8. Pour Brussels sprouts into a large bowl and separate Brussels sprouts with fingers unti l they resemble 
cold slaw.
9. Drain the onions and add them to bowl with the Brussels sprouts, along with toasted alm onds and 
cranberries. T oss everything together with preferred amount of dressi ng.
10. Fill the parmesan cups with salad. Serve immediately. I knew that if I wanted to add a salad to my list of recipes, I would have to get really creative. I had made pa rmesan 
cheese crisps before but when I discovered they could be pressed i nto the muffin cup, I knew exactly how to serve 
up this Brussels sprout salad.
Pan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan 
Ingredients:
1 cup Brussels sprouts, 
shredded or thinly 
sliced
1 ½ cups parmesan
¼ cup almonds, sliced
¼ red onion, thinly sliced
Handful dried cranberriesDressing:
1 lemon, juiced
1 tsp dijon
1 tsp olive oil
½ tsp honey
Salt and pepper, to tasteYo u  
w i ll  
need:139Cheesy  
 Herb Popovers
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 450°F and grease a standard muffin pan. 
2. In a blender blend mix, eggs, and 1 tablespoon of butter until completely comb ined. Add flour, salt, 
cheese, and herbs and blend until frothy. Let the mixture sit while the oven heats up . This allows the flour 
to absorb, which helps create a better texture.
3. Place the muffin pan in the oven for 2 minutes to heat the pan.
4. Remove the pan and divide the remaining butter among the 12 cups. Give the batter a final ble nd and 
pour the batter into the cups, filling them halfway.
5. Bake at 450°F for 15 minutes. Do not open the door while the popovers bake.
6. Reduce the oven temperature to 350°F and bake for an additional 15 minutes.
7. After 30 minutes have passed, it is safe to open the oven door and check on the popovers. They s hould 
be golden brown and dry.
8. T urn the popovers out onto a cooling rack. Pierce the bottom to allow the steam to es cape. Allow the 
popovers to cool only until they can be handled safely but still warm. This recipe is great for using up whatever cheeses and herbs you ma y have in the fridge. I like the gruyere and chive 
combination or parmesan and basil. See the list in the note section for other tasty opt ions.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 cup whole or 2% milk
2 eggs
3 tbsp unsalted butter, melted1 cup ﬂour
¼ tsp salt
1 ¼ cup cheese, grated
2 tbsp herbsPan: Standard 24-cup mufﬁn pan
Here is a list of suggestions for combining cheese and herbs.
Cheese: 
 Gruyere  Parmesan  Cheddar  Swiss
 Manchego  Blue cheese (¼ cup)Herbs:
 Chives  Rosemary  Basil  
 Parsley  Basil  Thyme141Mini  
 Pastalone
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard muffin pan with butter.
2. In a medium size skillet, heat achiote oil and tomato sauce over medium high heat. Stir oc casionally as 
the water begins to evaporate. Add olive, pimento and caper mix, cumin and ci nnamon and pork to the 
skillet. Break up the large chunks of meat and stir to coat in the oil and spices with a wooden spo on. Mix 
in tomato paste and raisins and season with salt and pepper to taste. Stir all the ingredie nts together well 
and remove from heat when the meat is cooked through.
3. Prepare the plantains by slicing each one in half lengthwise. This will help heat the plantain s evenly. 
 Begin to layer your muffin cups by placing smaller pieces of plantain on the bottom. Y ou may n eed to cut 
pieces in half again to ensure the bottom is covered. Place two or three more slices of  plantains around 
the edge. Spoon the meat mixture on top of the plantains, filling the cups almost to the to p.
4. Evenly and slowly divide the eggs among the cups, allowing the egg mixture to move int o the empty 
spaces in the cup.
5. Bake at 350°F for 20 minutes or until the dish is golden brown. Run a knife around the edge to loo sen 
the cups. Gently, using a spoon or fork, lift the pastelon out of the muffin pan. Serv e hot.After grad school, I worked in Costa Rica for 6 months teaching English part time an d exploring the country the 
rest. I discovered during my time there a love for plantains. An y way you make them, sweet, savory, or fried I 
would devour them. When I returned home I found that fresh plant ains were not always easy to come by. Then 
one day I discovered plantains in the frozen section. They are already cooked and p erfect for this dish.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 (11 oz) packages of frozen sweet 
plantains
3 tbsp achiote or annatto oil
1 cup tomato sauce or sofrito, if it is 
available
¼ cup marinated olive, pimentos and caper 
combo, or alcaparrado ﬁnely chopped½ tsp cumin
¼ tsp cinnamon
1 lb ground pork
1 tbsp tomato paste
½ cup raisins
1 tbsp unsalted butter
4 large eggs, beaten
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Note:  If you have the option, use sofrito in place of tomato sauce. Sofrito is a sauce most commonl y used in Puerto 
Rican food. It is a combination of bell peppers, tomatoes, onion, gar lic, cilantro and parsley. If sofrito isn’t sold where 
you live, look for a tomato sauce with peppers, onions, and garlic and add your own fresh cil antro and parsley.
If you are also having a problem finding achiote oil, olive oil and turmeric can be us ed as a substitute in a pinch.
143
Sausage and  
 Mushroom Stuffin’ Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray muffin pan.
2. When the oven is ready, bake the sourdough and corn bread cubes on a baking sheet for 25 min utes, or 
until toasted. Remove from oven and set aside.
3. In a large cast iron skillet, melt butter and sauté onions, mushroom, carrots, and celery u ntil tender, about 
10 minutes. Add garlic and cook for another minute. Pour in chicke n broth and stir in parsley, sage, 
rosemary, and sausage.
4. In a large bowl, add bread cubes and slowly pour in the vegetable and broth mixture. Gentl y fold the 
mixture until all the bread cubes are coated. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
5. In a small bowl whisk the eggs and pour into the bread and vegetable mixture. Gently stir al l the 
ingredients together.
6. Scoop the stuffing into the muffin cups. Press down firmly to help ensure they stay toget her. Divide the 
remaining stuffing among the cups.
7. Bake at 350°F for 20–25 minutes, until the tops are crisp and the muffins are set. 
8. As long as the recipe contains at least 2 eggs, you can bake most stuffing recipes in the muffin pan.I am usually in charge of potatoes for our big Thanksgiving feast and I usually make the crispy p otato cups on pg 
TK or the sweet potato puffs on pg TK. But as the unofficial “Muffin Lady, ” I feel like I need to step out of the box 
for Thanksgiving. I have seen stuffin’ muffins all over the internet but I like this versio n the best. It uses my two 
favorite stuffing ingredients: sausage and mushrooms. I hope you try these at your next Thanksgiving meal. But be 
careful, you might be in charge of stuffing from then on. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
½ loaf of sourdough bread, cubed
1 ½ cups baked corn bread, cubed
1 stick butter
½ large onion, diced
1 cup mushroom, washed and 
chopped
2 carrots, chopped
2 stalks celery, chopped2 cloves garlic, minced
2 cups low sodium  
chicken broth
¼ cup fresh parsley, chopped
1 tbsp fresh sage
1 tbsp fresh rosemary
½ lb ground sausage, cooked and 
drained
2 eggsPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
145
Belly Up to  
 the Mini Mac and Cheese Bar
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425°F and coat the cups of the muffin pan with butter.
2. In a large pasta pot, bring enough salted water to cover the pasta to a boil. Cook the macaron i until 
almost al dente, about 5 minutes. Check package directions and adjust 2–3 minute s less than package 
suggests for al dente. Drain and rinse under cold water to stop any further cooking.  Set pasta aside.
3. In a large saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Whisk in the flour and cook until the flo ur turns light 
brown, 1–2 minutes. Add in milk and whisk continuously until the mixture is smoot h and comes to a 
boil, about 5 minutes. Add the cheeses and stir until melted.
4. Remove the pan from the heat and whisk in egg yolks and paprika.
5. Fold the cooked pasta into the cheese sauce. Add pepper if desired but do use p lenty of salt to season 
this dish.I think this recipe epitomizes the beauty of the muffin pan. It is child-friendly, adorabl e, offers portion control, and 
is perfect for parties. Really all the things a muffin pan dish should be. And as an added bo nus this is not just a 
muffin pan recipe! It is also instructions and suggestions for how to set up your own Ma c and Cheese Bar. 
Pan: 2 mini 24-cup or 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans
Ingredients:
½ lb elbow macaroni
2 unsalted butter, plus more for pan
2 tbsp ﬂour
¾ cup milk, room temp
1 ½ cups cheese, shredded¼ cup Parmesan cheese, grated
2 egg yolks
¼ tsp paprika
Salt and pepper, to taste
Panko bread crumbsYo u  
w i ll  
need:
Tip: When choosing cheese for your dish, try sticking with cheeses that melt really w ell. Cheddar, Jack, Swiss, 
Gruyere, and even American are great. I prefer to use a sharp aged cheddar when I make th ese mac and cheese 
bites. If you have some strong cheeses on hand like blue cheese or feta, mix in a small am ount, about ¼ cup with 
a more neutral cheese like Jack so as to not overpower the dish. Howe ver, if you are anything like my Aunt Judy, 
just throw in whatever cheese you have in the cheese drawer and bake it up. It always wo rks for her!146
6. If you are going to add any extra ingredients to the macaroni, now is the time to add it in.
7. Fill each muffin cup to the top, packing the noodles down gently.
8. Sprinkle the tops with panko crumbs and some more parmesan cheese.
9. Bake for 10 minutes, or until golden brown and bubbly.
10. Allow the trays to cool for 5 minutes before removing the macaroni cups from the pan. U se a butter knife 
to loosen the macaroni bites and place on a platter. Serve warm.
Tip: Y ou can make these bites ahead by following all the steps up until baking and p lace, covered, in the fridge 
until you are ready to bake. Or you can cook the mac and cheese bites ahead of time and store them in th e fridge. 
When you are ready to use, preheat the oven to 400°F, place bites on a cooking sheet, and b ake for 5 minutes, 
or until warm in the middle. 
Mini Gobbler Pie with Rosemary  
 Goat Cheese Pesto  ................................................................................ 151
BBQ Chicken Pizza Cups  .......................................................................... 153
Mini Louisiana Corn Dogs with Cajun Ketchup  ....................... 155
Citrus Shrimp Taco Salad with Creamy  
 Cilantro Dressing .................................................................................... 157
Individual Chicken Alfredo Lasagna  ............................................... 161
Chicken Marsala Pot Pie  .......................................................................... 163
Empadinha de Pollo  .................................................................................... 165
King Ranch Casserole Cups  .................................................................... 167
Lightened-Up Mini Cheeseburger Pie  ............................................ 169
Mini Albondigas Tortas with a Roasted Tomato  
 Cilantro Dipping Sauce  ...................................................................... 171
Mini Burek  .......................................................................................................... 173
Monte Cristo Bites  ......................................................................................... 175
Not So Sloppy Joes  ...................................................................................... 177
Philly Cheesesteak Bites  .......................................................................... 179
Spaghetti Carbonara Twists-Up  .......................................................... 181
Spicy Thai Peanut Chicken Rolls With  
 Cilantro Yogurt Sauce  ......................................................................... 183
Tuna Mini Melts ............................................................................................... 185
Mini Gyros  .......................................................................................................... 187
Mini Buffalo Chicken Meatloaf with  
 Creamy Blue Cheese Mashed Potatoes  ................................. 189
Mini Fish Tacos ................................................................................................. 191
Main Dishes151
Mini Gobbler Pie With  
 Rosemary Goat Cheese Pesto
Do you know what’s better than Thanksgiving dinner? Thanksgiving leftovers! My fami ly has a great tradition of 
having a leftovers party the evening after Thanksgiving. True to myself, I usually t ake a couple dishes and create 
a muffin pan dish using leftovers for the party. This is a fun night to share food and family tra ditions with friends. 
We have some amazing family friends who never fail to impress with their leftovers. At th e end of the night, we 
send everyone home with more food, only now it’s something new and exciting from som eone else’s family table.
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
6 uncooked biscuits, cut lengthwise
1 cup turkey, cubed
1 cup mashed potatoesRosemary Goat Cheese Pesto
1⁄3 cup of fresh rosemary
1⁄3 cup goat cheese, softened at 
room temperature
1 ½ cups of fresh parsley
2 garlic cloves
½ cup pine nuts
½ cup olive oil
½ cup cranberry sauceYo u  
w i ll  
need:
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F and grease a standard 12 cup muffin pan.
2. In a food processor or using a whisk and a mixing bowl, add all the ingredients for the pest o.
3. Slice each biscuit lengthwise. Y ou should have 12 slices in total. Place each sli ce of biscuit in the well of 
muffin pan. Use a tart shaper or bottom of a shot glass to press the dough into the muffin cup. 
4. Start by adding turkey pieces to the biscuit cup, followed by goa t cheese pesto and finally topped with 
mashed potatoes.
5. Bake for 18 minutes or until the edges begin to turn golden brown. Remove and top with cr anberry 
sauce.
Mix It Up:  There are plenty of other thanksgiving leftovers that would make good additions to these min i 
gobbler pies. Try adding a veggie like green beans to the pie. Whatever the addition, mak e sure the final layer 
is potato.153
BBQ Chicken  
 Pizza Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and spray 2 standard muffin pans.
2. Leaving the pizza dough rolled up like a log, slice into 16 rounds. Place the rounds in t he cups and bake 
for 8 minutes.
3. While it bakes, mix together chicken and barbecue sauce in a bowl.
4. Remove from oven and press dough down. Divide chicken and onion s among the 16 cups. T op  
with cheese.
5. Place muffin pan back in the oven and bake for an additional 15–18 minutes, or un til the cheese is bubbly.
6. T op with cilantro and serve warm.One of my favorite types of pizza is BBQ chicken. I like the combination of textures, flavors and c olors. But really, 
anyway you press it out, roll it up, top it or slice it, I just love pizza. That’s why this recipe is s o great for all pizza 
lovers. Choose the toppings you prefer or better yet, get the family o r guests involved and let everyone choose their 
own toppings. Use a separate muffin pan to display topping options, like in the Belly Up to the Ma c & Cheese Bar 
recipe on pg TK.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 (13.8 oz) refrigerated pizza 
dough
1 cup cooked chicken, chopped½ cup barbecue sauce
1 ½ cups mozzarella, shredded
¼ red onion, cut into strips
Cilantro, choppedPan: 2 Standard 12-Cup mufﬁn pans155
Mini Louisiana Corn  
 Dogs with Cajun Ketchup
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and grease muffin pan.
2. In a large cast iron skillet, heat a tablespoon of oil over medium high heat. Cook onion s, sausage, and 
peppers until vegetables are tender and sausage is browned. With a pair of tong s, remove the 16 pieces 
of sausage and place them aside.
3. In a bowl, mix together cornbread mix, egg, buttermilk and creole seas oning. When fully combined, add 
onion and peppers to the cornbread mixture. Stir until fully combined.
4. Spoon cornbread mixture into the muffin cups, filling them half way. In the center of each cup, place a 
piece of sausage.
5. Bake for 15–18 minutes, or until the edges begin to brown.
6. While it bakes, mix together ketchup, mustard, hot sauce, and seasoning. Se rve sauce with corn dogs.This is the corn dog . . . all grown up! Playing on the flavors of New Orleans cuisine, this recip e is sure to be a hit 
at any Mardi Gras party. This dish can be served as either an appetizer or main course. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
4 Andouille sausages, sliced into 
16 pieces
1 large onion, chopped 
1 bell pepper, chopped 
1 box (8.5oz) cornbread mix 
1 egg1⁄3 cup buttermilk
1 tbsp Cajun or creole seasoning
1 cup ketchup
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
½ tsp hot sauce
1 tsp Cajun seasoningPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan157
Citrus Shrimp Taco Salad  
 with Creamy Cilantro Dressing
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and lightly grease a jumbo muffin pan.
2. Place one tortilla into each of the 6 jumbo muffin cups. Y ou may need t o overlap one side or two to make 
it fit.
3. Bake for 10–12 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, cook quinoa and corn. In a fine mesh strainer, rinse the quinoa with co ld water. Rub the 
quinoa to remove quinoas coating, called saponin. It has a bitt er taste. If the package says “pre-rinsed” you 
can skip this step. Drizzle a tsp of olive oil in a saucepan over medium high heat. Add quino a and toast 
quinoa for about 1 minute, stirring, until all the water has evaporated.
5. Add 2 cups of water and bring the pan to a boil.
6. T urn the heat down to the lowest setting and cook, covered, for 15 minutes.Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6 (8 in) ﬂour or whole wheat 
tortillas
1 cup quinoa, uncooked
2 cups water
Olive oil
1 ½ cup of frozen corn
¼ tsp chili powder
½ lb shrimp 
1 tbsp lemon pepper
I cup of cilantro, stems removed½ cup greek yogurt
2 cloves garlic
1 lime, juiced
¼ cup olive oil
1-2 tbsp apple cider vinegar
1⁄8 tsp salt
Olive oil
1 cup cherry tomatoes
Arugula or greens of your choice
Fresh crumbly cheese like cotija 
or feta Pan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan158
7. Remove the tortillas from the oven after 10–12 minutes or when the tortillas hold their s hape and are 
golden brown around the edges. 
8. While the quinoa cooks, heat tablespoon of oil in a large skillet o ver medium high heat. Add corn and 
cook 10 minutes or until the corn begins to brown, stirring occasionally. Sti r in chili powder and remove 
from heat. Pour into a serving dish or T upperware container. Wipe pan clean so it can b e used for the 
shrimp.
9. After 15 minutes, remove pan from the heat and stand for an additional 5 m inutes, still covered. After 5 
minutes, fluff the quinoa with a fork.
10. In small bowl, toss shrimp, 2 tablespoons of oil and 1 tablespoon of lemon pepp er. Add shrimp to pan 
and cook until they are pink and curled up, 3-4 minutes. Remove from heat.
11. Finally, in a blender or food processor, combine cilantro, yogurt, garlic clo ves, lime juice, and salt. 
While the mixture is blending, slowly add oil and vinegar until emulsified or has a smo oth, creamy 
texture.
12. Build your salad: T o the tortilla cup, add arugula, quinoa, corn, tomatoes, sh rimp, fresh crumbled cheese, 
dressing and salt and pepper to taste.
161
Individual Chicken  
 Alfredo Lasagna
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and lightly grease two jumbo 6-cup muffin pans (12 wells total). 
2. Heat olive oil in a frying pan over medium heat. Add chopped onion and sauté until soften ed, about 3 
minutes. Add chopped garlic and sauté for 1 minute more. Pour in alfredo sauce and chi cken. Stir the 
pan, coating the chicken in the alfredo sauce. Remove from heat and set aside.
3. In a mixing bowl, combine ricotta cheese, egg, grated Parmesan, bacon and chopp ed parsley. Season well 
with salt and pepper.
4. Press one won ton wrapper into the bottom of the muffin cup. T o create a base, add a pin ch of the 
mozzarella cheese and then another won ton wrapper. This creates a sturdy base to start laye ring. Spoon 
a tablespoon of the chicken alfredo sauce on top of the wonton cup, next a tsp of the r icotta mixture, 
followed by a tablespoon of mozzarella and then topped with a won ton wrapper. Rep eat the layering: 
chicken alfredo sauce, ricotta mixture, mozzarella cheese, won t on wrapper. When you have reached the 
top of the muffin cup, top the final won ton wrapper with just cheese. 
5. Bake uncovered for 20 minutes or until sauce is bubbling and cheese is melted. If th e edges begin to 
brown quicker than the cheese is melting, move tray to a lower rack.
6. Let the dish stand for 5 minutes before removing from the tray to allow the filling to fir m up.Muffin pan lasagna is a great go-to meal. I like to serve one of the lasagna cups with a side salad an d call it dinner.
Pan: 2 jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pans
Ingredients:
2 cups chicken, shredded or 
cubed
2 cups Alfredo sauce 
1 cup onion, chopped
1 tbsp chopped garlic 
2 cups ricotta cheese (or 1 
425g container)
1 large egg½ cup grated  
Parmesan 
4 strips bacon, cooked and 
crumbled
2 tbsp parsley, chopped
3 cups mozzarella cheese, 
grated 
Won ton or Potsticker 
wrappersYo u  
w i ll  
need:163
Chicken  
 Marsala Pot Pie
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425°F and grease a jumbo muffin pan including the top.
2. Split each chicken breast lengthwise to make two pieces. On a plate or in a zip top bag, comb ine flour, 
salt and pepper and dredge each piece of chicken.
3. In a large skillet, heat a tablespoon or two of olive oil and cook the pieces of chicken ov er medium heat 
for 1–2 minutes, or until browned on each side. Y ou may need to do the chicken in batch es. Once the 
chicken is cooked, remove from the pan and allow to rest before cutting into bite siz ed pieces.
4. In the same pan, add butter, shallots, rosemary and garlic. Cook for 5–6 minutes until shallots ar e tender. 
Return the chicken to the pan and with it the sliced mushrooms. Continue to cook fo r an additional 2–3 
minutes. Add the tomato paste, marsala wine, stock, sherry, and cream.
5. T urn the heat down to low or simmer and allow the ingredients to coo k down until the mixture is 
thickened, about 5 minutes, or until the chicken is completely cooked thr ough.
6. While the sauce is thickening, prepare the crust.
7. Roll out each pie crust and cut each into 6 pieces, eyeballing the size so that each is generall y the same 
size. If you’d like to make the pies look uniform in shape, cut dough with a large biscui t cutter. 
8. Press each piece into each jumbo muffin cup. Allow the crust to peak up over the edges. Fil l the cups 
with the chicken marsala mixture. Place the remaining 6 pieces of dough on top of the filli ng and press 
together with the dough from the bottom.
9. Make a slit in the center of the pie dough to vent. Brush with egg and sprinkle with salt.
10. Bake, covered for 20 minutes. Uncover and bake for an additional 10 minutes until ni ce and brown.This is my version of chicken pot pie in the muffin pan with a marsala twist. It’s very rich but oh so d elicious.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 refrigerated pie crusts
2 large chicken breasts, skinless and 
boneless
½ cup ﬂour
Salt and pepper, to taste
2 tbsp butter
4 large shallots, chopped
1 tbsp rosemary leaves, ﬁnely chopped2 garlic cloves, minced
8 oz mushrooms, cleaned and sliced
2 tbsp tomato paste
½ cup sweet marsala wine
¼ cup chicken stock
¼ cup sherry or dry white wine
2 tbsp heavy cream
1 egg, whiskedPan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan165
Empadinha  
 de Pollo
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease 1 standard muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl combine the eggs and egg yolk with the flour, butter, baking soda, and salt.
3. Using your hands, mix the ingredients together until well combined, for sever al minutes. Add the cold water 
to the dough and knead just until the desired dough-like consiste ncy is reached. Try not to over knead the 
dough. Roll the dough into a large ball, place back into the bowl, cover and allow to rest in th e fridge.
4. While the dough rests, heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large pan over medium heat an d cook the 
onions and garlic. Once the onions are translucent, add the heart of palm, tomato, ol ives, and peas. Cook 
for about 8 minutes. 
5. In a bowl whisk the milk and cornstarch together and pour it until the pan with the veget ables and mix 
until the mixture thickens. Allow the mixture to come to a bubble and then turn off the h eat.
6. Roll out the pastry dough and cut into 12 circles (what size??) and place into the wells of the muffin pan. 
Press the dough into the pan.
7. Spoon about 1 ½ tbsps of filling into each cup. Cut another 12 circles (size) and place on top o f each cup. 
Pinch around the edges to create a seal.
8. Bake for 25 minutes. My family loves to travel. One year for New Y ears, we visited Rio d e Janiero, Brazil for their big New Y ears party. 
It was an amazing experience. We traveled around with family friends who grew up in Brazi l so we got to do 
so much of what the locals did. She took us to the best places to eat and we tried all kinds of food. This recip e is 
inspired by that trip.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
Empindinha Dough:
4 cup all purpose ﬂour, plus 6 tbsp 
2 eggs
1 egg yolk
1 tsp of baking powder
4–5 tsp of cold water
Pinch of saltFilling:
1 (14.5 oz) can hearts of palm, drained
1 ½ cups rotisserie chicken, shredded
2 tomatoes, chopped
2 big tomatoes, chopped
½ cup chopped olives
1 (15 oz) can of peas
2 tbsp of chopped onions
1 clove garlic, minced
1 tbsp cornstarch
1 cup of milk
2 tbsp of chopped parsley
3 tbsp of olive oil
Salt and pepper to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan167
King Ranch  
 Casserole Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a jumbo muffin pan.
2. Separate 6 corn tortillas and place in the microwave, wrapped in a barely damp paper towel,  for 30 
seconds. This will make them more pliable. Gently place one tortilla in each muffin cup and pr ess into 
the bottom. Cut the remaining 6 tortillas into small squares and set aside.
3. In a large skillet, heat olive oil over medium high heat. T o the pan add onions and bell pepper an d sauté 
until soft. Add garlic and poblano and cook a minute longer.
4. Sprinkle flour over the vegetables and stir to coat. Reduce to medium heat.
5. While the vegetables are cooking, whisk together milk, broth, tomatoe s, and chiles. Pour the milk mix -
ture into the skillet and stir together. Add tortilla squares, chicken and one c up of cheese into the pan. 
Give the whole mixture another stir. 
6. T urn the heat back up to medium high to bring the mixture to a simmer. Continue to stir th e sauce until 
it becomes thick and bubbly. Once the mixture is thick, Stir in cilantro and remove fr om heat.
7. Scoop a generous amount of the chicken tortilla mixture into the tortilla cups. T op with the remaining 
cup of cheese.
8. Bake for 20–25 minutes, or until tortillas are crispy and the cheese is bubbly. Serve warm.If you love tortilla casseroles as much as I do, you need to try these casserole cups. A muffin sized twist on the 
popular T exas dish, these cups are great for packing in a lunch or bringing to a potluck. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 corn tortillas
3 tbsp olive oil
½ medium size onion, chopped
1⁄3 red bell pepper, chopped
2 large clove garlic, crushed
1 medium poblano pepper, roasted, 
peeled and chopped
3 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour1 cup whole milk or  
heavy cream
1 cup chicken broth
1 (10 oz) can diced tomatoes and 
green chiles
1 tsp cilantro, chopped
2 cups cheddar cheese, shredded
3 cups cooked chicken, shredded
Salt and pepper, to tastePan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan169Lightened-Up  
 Mini Cheeseburger Pie
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a 6-cup jumbo muffin pan.
2. In a skillet over medium heat start to brown turkey, garlic, and onions.
3. While the meat cooks, in a large bowl, gradually add water to Bisquik. If t he dough becomes too sticky, 
add more bisquik. Split the dough evenly among the bottom of the 6 cup s. Press the dough firmly into 
the bottom and up the sides.
4. Once the dough is in place, return to the meat and add the W orcestershire sauce. G ive it a mix. Cook 
until the meat is no longer pink. Remove the skillet from the heat and put to the side.
5. In a bowl mix together egg, cottage cheese, and meat mixture. Stir all the ingredi ents together.
6. Evenly spoon the ingredients on top of the dough. T op with cheese and a slice of t omato.
7. Bake for 20 minutes.While I was in grad school, my roommate Lisa used to make this fantastic cheeseburger p ie. We would sit in front 
of the TV , eat cheeseburger pie and watch reruns of our favorite shows. This is a mini version of th at recipe.
Pan: Jumbo 6-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1lb ground turkey
1 tbsp olive oil
½ onion, chopped
3 cloves of garlic, minced
1 tbsp Worcestershire sauce
2 ¼ cups Heart Healthy 
Bisquik¾ cup water
1 egg
1 cup non-fat cottage 
cheese
¾ cup shredded 2% 
cheddar cheese
1 large tomato, slicedYo u  
w i ll  
need:
171Mini Albondigas  
 Tortas With a Roasted  
  Tomato Cilantro dipping sauce
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease 2 standard muffin pans.
2. In a pan, heat olive oil over medium heat. Cook onions and garlic for about 2 minutes. In a ble nder, blend 
the tomatoes, cumin, and cilantro until the consistency of marinara sauce. Add the o nions then garlic 
and give another quick blend.
3. Slice the loaf into 15 pieces. Press each slice into the muffin pan and press into the sides o f the cup.
4. Par-bake the bread for about 6 minutes.
5. After 6 minutes, remove from the oven and carefully place half a meatball, cut side up, in th e bread cup. 
T op with a quarter of cheese and return to the oven, this time on the lowest rack.
6. Allow it to cook for about 13–15 minutes.
7. Serve with roasted tomato sauce and a slice of avocado.Here is a random tidbit about my Mama: Albondigas is her favori te Spanish word. She told me this several times 
during my years in Spanish class and it always made me giggle. It means meatball a nd it is terribly fun to say. Al-
bon-digas. Al-bon-digas. Hopefully this dish also becomes a favorite. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 can of Pillsbury sourdough 
baguette
8 precooked turkey or beef  
meat ball halved
4 slices of pepper jack, quartered
½ avocado, cubedSauce
1 tbsp olive oil
1 (14.5 oz) can of ﬁre roasted 
tomatoes
3 whole cloves of garlic, minced
½ onion, chopped
1 tbsp cumin
Handful or two of cilantro leavesPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans
Party Time:  The green avocado, white bread, and red sauce makes a great addition to any fiesta or Cin co de 
Mayo party. 
173
Mini  
 Burek
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and spray a 12-cup muffin pan.
2. In a large frying pan, cook onions in oil until translucent. Add the ground meat and cook un til no longer 
pink.
3. While the meat cooks, prepare the phyllo. In a small bowl, mix together warm water, oi l, and salt. This 
will be used to keep phyllo from drying out, referred to as the cooking liquid. 
4. When the meat has cooked, remove phyllo from the fridge. W orking in batche s of 3–4 sheets, sprinkle 
cooking liquid on the top most phyllo sheet. Add 3–4 tablespoons of meat to the lo ng side of the phyllo, 
spreading it out into a line. Rolling away from you, roll meat side of the phyll o into a long tube. If the 
phyllo begins to break, add more liquid. Begin coiling phyllo like a snake and the n cut along the snake, 
creating spiral discs of phyllo and meat. Place the disc flat into the muffin pan. The middle shoul d reach 
the bottom while outer edges reach up the sides of the cup. Repeat this until all th e cups are filled. 
5. Cover with foil, and bake for 25 minutes. Remove from oven and remove foil. If there i s leftover cooking 
liquid, divide it among the 12 cups. Return to the oven and bake for an additional 5 minute s.
6. Serve with sour cream. When I was researching for this book, I wanted to include dishes that showcased dish es from different countries. 
Burek is a popular dish in modern day Turkey, but many other countries have their ow n version of this dish. 
Traditionally it is filled with ground beef or sometimes with spinach and fres h cheese. I have adapted this simple 
dish for the muffin pan.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 pkg phyllo pastry
1 lb ground beef or turkey
1 cup warm water
3 tbsp oil
½ tsp salt
1 small onions, ﬁnely chopped1 tsp thyme
1 tbsp ground sage
1 tsp paprika
1 clove garlic, minced
Salt and pepper, to taste
Sour cream, as a toppingPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan175
Monte  
 Cristo Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F and grease 2 standard muffin pans.
2. Spilt 8 of the biscuits in half lengthwise, creating 16 biscuit slices.
3. Layer one piece of ham, then turkey, followed by a slice of sw iss and a slice of cheddar. Roll into a log. 
Cut the roll into 3 equal pieces.
4. Spread ½ tablespoon of jam on a slice of biscuit and place one piece of the roll in the cen ter.
5. Stretch the edges of the biscuit over the filling and press the edges together a t the top for a tight seal.
6. Press the biscuit in the dough into the muffin pan, seam side down.
7. Bake for 13–15 minutes, until the dough is a light golden brown.
8. Remove from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Plate the monte cristo bites and dust w ith powedered 
sugar. Serve with a side of extra raspberry jam.The first time I had a Monte Cristo sandwich I was on vacation with my family. I can’t rememb er who ordered 
it off the room service menu, but I do remember loving it! I think it’s where my love of sweet an d savory started. 
Whenever I want to treat myself to a staycation, I bake up a batch of these puppies, curl up in a bi g comfy robe, 
and pop in a movie. Instant vacation. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 can butter ﬂavored biscuits
6 slices of ham
6 slices of turkey6 slices of swiss
6 slices of cheddar (or approx.  
1 cup shredded cheddar)
6 tbsp of raspberry jamPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans
Embrace Leftovers: There will be ⅔ of a meat and cheese roll left when you have made all 16 bites. I say 
roll it up in a tortilla while you wait for these guys to bake or just eat it while you are work ing. Remember, these 
are your staycation treats and calories don’t count while you are on vacatio n. 177
NOT-SO- 
 Sloppy Joes
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a standard muffin pan.
2. In a skillet over medium heat, sauté turkey until almost cooked t hrough. Add onions, carrots, and garlic 
and continue to cook for 2–3 minutes. Finally add zucchini and cook for 2 additional minut es.
3. T o the meat mixture add ketchup, tomato paste, water, W orcestershire sau ce, sugar, mustard, chili 
powder, and hot sauce. Mix well and simmer for 15 minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste.
4. Cut off ⅓ of the biscuit dough from each round, press flat and set aside. Press the large p iece of biscuit 
into each cup and up the sides of the well. Add a generous amount of  filling to each dough cup. Cover 
each cup with the smaller piece of biscuit dough, sealing the bottom and the top bisc uit pieces together 
as best you can.
5. Bake for 15 minutes, or until biscuit dough is golden brown.A “clean” twist on the original Sloppy Joe, this Not-so-sloppy Joe is made with healthy gr ound turkey and packed 
with veggies. 
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 can of biscuit dough
20 oz lean ground turkey
1 cup onion, ﬁnely chopped
1 cup shredded carrot 
1 medium zucchini, chopped
1 large garlic clove, minced
¾ cup ketchup1 tbsp tomato paste
½ cup water
4–5 squirts of worcestershire sauce
1 tbsp brown sugar
½ tsp dry mustard
1 tsp chili powder
Hot sauce, to taste
Salt & pepper, to tasteYo u  
w i ll  
need:179
Philly  
 Cheesesteak Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F and grease one standard muffin pan. 
2. Roll out the puff pastry, cutting each sheet into six pieces. Repeat with the seco nd sheet. Place a piece of 
the puff pastry into each cup. Put the tray in the fridge to keep the dough cool.
3. In a large skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add the bell pepper, onion, mush rooms, and minced 
garlic to the skillet. Saute until tender, about 3 minutes, taking care not to bur n the garlic. Season with 
salt and pepper to taste. 
4. In a large bowl, add sliced roast beef and worcestershire. With a fork, or your hand s, toss the roast beef, 
coating it in the worcestershire. Add the veggies to the meat and give it once las t mix.
5. T ake the tray out of the fridge. Add half a piece of cheese to each puff pastry cup. F ill the puff pastry with 
¼ cup of the meat and vegetable mix.
6. Fold the corners of the puff pastry towards the middle to enclose the filling.
7. Bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown.Provolone or Cheez-Whiz? Try one batch of each! Either way, these cheesesteak bites a re a little bit of Philly 
heaven. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 sheets of puff pastry, thawed
1 pkg (7 oz) of roast beef, thinly sliced 
into strips
1–2 tbsp olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, thinly sliced
8 oz mushrooms, sliced1 tbsp minced garlic
1 bell pepper, seeded and thinly sliced
2 tsp worcestershire sauce
6 slices of provolone or Velveeta slices
1 egg, beaten
Salt and pepper to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan181
Spaghetti  
 Cabonara Twists-Up
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F and grease one 12-cup muffin pan.
2. Cook the spaghetti in a pot of boiling, salted water until al dente. Drain and retu rn to the pot.
3. While the pasta cooks, in a skillet, cook the pancetta over medium heat for about 5–6 mi nutes until the 
fat is rendered. Remove the pancetta with a slotted spoon and set aside on a plate wit h a paper towel.
4. Pour the fat from the pan into the spaghetti pot, add ½ cup of the parmesan t o the pot as well as the 
pepper to taste.
5. Using a fork, grab a large scoop of pasta, place in the well of a muffin pan and give it a twist. Cont inue to 
twist until the spaghetti is nicely packed. The cup should be ½ full of spaghetti. 
6. In a small bowl, beat the eggs and stir in the heavy cream. Evenly distribute the mixture into the 12 cu ps, 
about 1 tablespoon each. T op with the pancetta and remaining cheese. 
7. Bake for 20 minutes, or until the edges begin to lightly brown.This is my new favorite way to eat pasta, all twisted up.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
½ lb spaghetti or spaghettini
5 oz pancetta, cubed
¾ cup parmesan cheese, grated3 eggs
½ cup heavy cream
Pepper to tastePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan 183
Spicy Thai Peanut Chicken  
 Rolls With Cilantro Yogurt Sauce
Directions
1. Preheat the oven 350°F and grease your muffin pan.
2. In a small pan heat chicken in olive oil. Allow chicken to brown up for a minute or two. Meanw hile, 
combine soy sauce, peanut butter, and sriracha in a bowl and whisk. Pour the mixture o ver the chicken 
and stir to coat. 
3. In a blender add the Greek yogurt and cilantro. Pulse until well combined. Pour int o your serving 
container. Squeeze in the lime juice and stir to combine.
4. Unroll French bread loaf. First add a thin layer of the cilantro yogurt. Add a layer of  mozzarella cheese, 
then chicken, followed by the carrots, onions, cilantro and green onion s. Spread the mixture to the corners.
5. Starting from long side, gently roll the bread back into a loaf shape. T o ensur e smooth cuts, place the whole 
roll in the refrigerator for several minutes to firm up. Once it is firm, slice the rol l into 12 equal slices.
6. Place each roll into the well of each muffin cup. Generously sprinkle the peanuts on top of  each roll up.
7. Bake the whole tray for 15 minutes. Serve with the rest of the cilantro yogurt sauce.This is my take on the delicious flavors of Thai Peanut Chicken. Wrapped in bread, these rol ls are great for lunches. 
The combination of spicy sriracha, sweet peanut butter, and salty soy sauce mak es this dish stand out. Add a dollop 
of the yogurt sauce and your coworkers will start wonder where they can buy one too. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 Pillsbury French Loaf can
1 (6 oz) chicken breast, cooked and 
cubed
1–2 tbsp olive oil
2 tbsp soy sauce
1 tbsp peanut butter
1 tsp sriracha or other chili sauce
1 cup mozzerella cheese, shredded
¼ cup matchstick carrots¼ cup red onions, thinly sliced
2 tbsp unsalted peanuts, chopped 
1⁄3 cup cilantro, chopped
¼ cup green onions, chopped
Cilantro Yogurt Sauce:
1 (6 oz) container or ½ cup Greek 
yogurt
1⁄3 cup cilantro, chopped
Juice of ½ a limePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan185
Tuna  
 Mini Melts
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F and grease a 6-cup standard muffin pan with butter.
2. In a bowl, combine the mayo, mustard, lemon, herbs, and pepper. Gently stir i n the tuna, breaking it up 
slightly.
3. Firmly press a half of an English Muffin into the muffin cup.
4. Scoop a tablespoon of the tuna mixture into the English muffin cup.  T op with a slice of tomato and a 
slice of cheese.
5. Bake at 375°F for 10 to 12 minutes or until cheese is bubbling and toasty brown.The lemon and herbs in this tuna melt not only make for a very light, fresh sandwich but wi ll also make your whole 
kitchen smell like summer. If you have a green thumb and garden w ith fresh herbs, use whatever you have growing. 
Substitutions are always okay, especially when you grew it yourself.
Pan: Standard 6-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 (12 oz) can white albacore tuna
Unsalted butter
1⁄3 cup mayonnaise
1 tsp Dijon mustard
½ small lemon, zested and juiced
3 tbsp fresh chives, chopped2 tbsp fresh parsley, chopped
1 tsp fresh thyme, chopped
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
6 whole wheat English mufﬁns
2 Roma tomatoes, sliced
12 slices of white cheddar (or cheese 
of your choice)Yo u  
w i ll  
need:187
Mini  
 Gyros
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F and grease the muffin pan.
2. In a bowl, mix together the tzatziki ingredients and let it sit while you bake lavash cups.
3. Place a square or circle of lavash bread into each cup. Press the bread firmly into the bott om of the cup.
4. Bake for about 6–8 minutes or until the bread is hard and crispy like a cracker. Remove from th e oven 
and let them cool.
5. Fill cups with pieces of gyro meat, a dollop of tzatziki, a cherry tomato, and some fet a sprinkled on top 
Garnish with a slice of cucumber.I couldn’t resist creating a mini version of the gyro. The combinat ion of textures and flavors is so wonderful. I could 
eat these everyday. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 slices gyro meat, cut into 1 inch 
squares
2 sheets of lavash bread, cut into 
12 squares or 12 circlesTzatziki Sauce
1 cup plain greek yogurt
½ cucumber, grated
1 clove of garlic, minced
½ tbsp fresh dill, ﬁnely 
chopped
½ tbsp. olive oil
½ tsp lemon juice
½ tbsp. red wine vinegar
1 ½ cup cherry tomatoes
Feta, crumbledPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan189
Mini Buffalo Chicken  
 Meatloaf with Creamy  
  Blue Cheese Mashed Potatoes
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl, mix meat, breadcrumbs, celery, blue cheese, and onion.
3. In a separate, smaller bowl, whisk together milk, egg, wing sauce, garlic pow der, parsley, and pepper.
4. Pour wet ingredients into meat mixture and combine.
5. Divide mixture among the 12 cups.
6. Bake for 30 minutes.
7. While the meatloaf muffins bake, prepare the mashed potatoes.
8. In a large pot of water, cook potatoes until fork tender. In a stand mixer, beat the po tatoes, butter, blue 
cheese, and salt. Slowly add milk until creamy.
9. Remove meatloaf muffins from the oven and allow to cool slightly. Serve with mashed po tatoes.I love getting random gifts from friends. Once a family friend gave me close to 30 bottles of b uffalo wing sauce. I 
tried to think of as many recipes as I could to use the buffalo sauce. I ate a lot buffalo wings, a few buffal o chicken 
pizzas, a couple buffalo chicken salads, numerous buffalo chicken tacos, and one b owl of buffalo mashed potatoes. 
However, after several bottles of wing sauce, I had yet to think of a recipe for the muffin pan. Then it da wned on 
me: over the time I had worked on the blog I had so many suggestions for meatloaf in the muffin pa n but I had yet 
to make one. So I decided to create a buffalo chicken meatloaf muffin. I pair it with blue cheese ma shed potatoes. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 ¼ lb ground chicken or turkey
1 cup plain panko breadcrumbs
1⁄3 cup (about 1 rib) celery, diced 
1⁄3 cup crumbled blue cheese 
¼ cup white onion, diced 
½ cup milk 
1 large egg½ cup buffalo wing sauce 
¼ tsp garlic powder 
¼ tsp dried parsley 
Pinch of black pepper 
2 lbs potatoes, peeled and cubed
5 tbsp butter 
1 ½ tsp salt
½ cup milk
4 tbsp blue cheese, crumbledPan: Standard 12-cup Mufﬁn Pan
Look At That! For a fun look, try piping the mashed potatoes on top like frosting on a cupcake. Place mashe d 
potatoes in a large zip top bag. Cut a corner of the bag and pipe the mashed potatoes on top of the muffins like 
frosting. 191
Mini  
 Fish Tacos
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease muffin pan and a baking sheet.
2. Cover the tortillas in a damp paper towel and heat in the microwave for 30 seconds. This makes them 
more pliable. Cut the tortillas in a square or circle. Save the edges for another reci pe.
3. When the oven is ready, place each tortilla square in the well of the muffin pan.
4. Bake for 15–20 minutes until they are nice and crispy.
5. Combine the garlic, paprika, coriander, and salt in a small bowl. Rub both sides of the fi sh with the spice 
mixture. Place fish on greased baking sheet.
6. Put the fish in the oven with the tortillas and bake for 10–12 minutes, until the fish is flakey and the 
tortillas are ready.
7. While the fish bakes, prepare the sauce. In a blender, combine jalepenos, sour cream,  cilantro, garlic, lime 
juice. Blend well. With the blender still on, open the top and pour olive oil in to t he blender in a steady 
stream. 
8. Remove both the tortilla cups and fish from the oven when finished. Allow the tor tillas to cool on a rack. 
Chop fish and divide among the tortilla cups. T op the fish with the cabbage and then the jala peño cream 
sauce. Garnish with lime and cilantro. San Diego is known for their delicious fish tacos. Y ou could say it is o ur signature dish, like San Francisco chiopino 
or Philly cheesesteaks. And like other cities with signature dishes, everyone has a n idea of where to find the best 
version. I say the best fish tacos in town are the ones you make at home . . . especially if y ou make them in your 
muffin pan. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
12 white corn tortillas
2 tilapia ﬁlets
¼ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp paprika
½ tsp ground coriander
¼ tsp salt4 seeded jalepenos
½ cup sour cream
1 cup cilantro
1 clove garlic
1 lime, juiced
1 tbsp olive oil
1 cup red cabbagePan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn panApple Pie Roses with a Cheddar Cheese Crust  ........................ 195
Lemon Basil Ricotta Cakes with Glazed Blueberries  ..........197
Pumpkin Snickerdoodle Treats with  
 Butterscotch Glaze  ................................................................................ 199
Salted Dark Chocolate Caramel Peanut Butter Cups  .........201
Golden S’more Blondie Bites  ............................................................... 203
Turtle Brownie Bites  .................................................................................... 205
Orange and Cranberry White Chocolate Buttons  ................. 207
Chocolate Banana Cream Pudding Cups  ..................................... 209
Blueberry Coconut Popsicles  ................................................................ 211
Stawberry Chocolate Hazelnut Pull-Apart Muffins  ............. 213
Toasted Coconut and Caramel Cookie Cups  .............................. 215
Bite-Sized Bacon Pecan Pie Cookies  ............................................... 217
Boñuelo Cups with Mint Strawberry Salsa  ................................. 219
Waffle Cup Sundaes  .................................................................................... 221
Tequila Sunrise Jello Shooters!  .......................................................... 223
Strawberry Pretzel Pie Bites  ................................................................ 225
Tiramisu Pudding in Chocolate Cups  .............................................. 227
Chocolately Chex Bites  .............................................................................. 229
Caramel Filled Cinnamon Sugar Pretzel Buns  ........................ 231
Dessert195
Apple Pie Roses with  
 a Cheddar Cheese Crust
These apple pie roses are almost too beautiful to eat. Almost. With the added cheddar to the cr ust, I could hardly 
keep my hands off of them. 
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 425°F and lightly grease a standard muffin pan.
2. In a large saucepot, bring the water, sugar, and lemon juice to a boil. Thinly slice the app les (approx. 24 
slices per apple) and add to the pot. Allow apples to boil for 2–4 minutes dependin g on thickness. The 
apples should be flexible but not falling apart.
3. Drain the apples and allow them to dry on a rack or paper towel while you prepare the crust.
4. T ake the piecrusts out of the fridge and let them reach just slightly cooler than room tem perature. 
5. In a small bowl mix together the brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and cheese. Evenly divi de the mixture 
between both crusts. Gently press all the toppings into the crust.
6. Slice each crust into 7 thin strips. The end strips are shorter so they should be combin ed to create one 
strip, leaving you with 6 slices in total.
7. Place approximately 8 slices of apple, overlapping the ends, onto each strip of  crust. The rounded edge of 
the apple should be peaking out over the edge of the crust. The more apple off the crust, the bigger the 
apple “blooms.”
8. Rolling away from you, roll each strip into a tight coil. Admire your handy work bef ore placing each rose 
into the well of the muffin pan. If your dough is starting to get too sticky, place it back i n the fridge for a 
minute or two until it firms up.
9. Once you have rolled up all 12 roses, cover in foil.
10. Bake at 425°F for 15 minutes. Remove the foil and bake for another 15 minutes making it 30 minutes 
total baking time. Keep an eye on your buds; if the edges begin to get too brown, co ver back up with foil.
11. When they are browned up nicely, take the tray from the oven and run knife around the edg es to loosen 
the crust. Serve them on the platter or next a big scoop of ice cream. Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan 
Ingredients:
1 box (2 rolls) pie crust
4 apples, thinly sliced
4 cups water
½ cup granulated sugar¼ cup lemon juice
¼ cup brown sugar
1 ½ tsp cinnamon
½ tsp nutmeg
½ cup cheddar, shreddedYo u  
w i ll  
need:197
Lemon Basil Ricotta  
 Cakes with Glazed Blueberries
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a mini muffin pan.
2. In a medium size bowl, mix the ricotta, eggs, basil, lemon juice, and lemon zest.  Spoon the ricotta mixture 
onto the top of each cup. The mixture will shrink a bit in the oven.
3. Bake in the oven for 15–17 minutes or until the sides of the bites begin to pull away from th e pan. 
4. Meanwhile, place the blueberries, sugar, water, and lemon in a small saucepan. Heat o ver medium high 
heat until the sauce begins to boil. T urn down to low heat and allow to simmer. The longer t he blueberries 
stay in the more they begin to break down. For intact berries only leave them in the pot f or 3–4 minutes. 
Allow 8–10 minutes for softer, more jam-like blueberries.
5. Once the ricotta has cooled, run a sharp knife around the edge and fl ip the pan onto a large platter or the 
backside of baking tray. 
6. Y ou choose: Place blueberries on top and serve as is, or place cover with blueberr ies and set in the 
refrigerator for a more solid glaze.The lemon, basil, and blueberries make this appetizer great for a summer party. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
2 cups (30 oz) Whole Milk Ricotta
2 eggs
4 tbsp basil leaves, chopped
2 lemons, juiced
Zest of 1 lemonBlueberry Glaze:
6 oz blueberries
½ cup powdered sugar
¼ cup water
¼ cup lemonPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan199Pumpkin Snickerdoodle  
 Treats with Butterscotch glaze
Directions:
1. Spray down a 24-cup mini muffin pan.
2. In a sauce pan, cook pumpkin puree for 5–6 minutes. The pumpkin will caramelize and reduce dow n to 
about a ¼ cup ⅓ cup. In a separate large skillet, cook butter until it gives off a nutty aroma.  Add pumpkin 
puree to the butter, as well as the vanilla, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt. Fold i n marshmallows. Stir 
until melted. Remove from heat.
3. Let the marshmallow mixture sit until it reaches room temperature. When it has, sti r in cereal.
4. Using a cookie scoop, fill each muffin cup with cereal mixture, patting it down with a spa tula until the 
wells are tightly packed.
5. Allow the tray to set for 25–30 minutes before removing.
6. While the tray sets, mix up the butterscotch glaze. Combine the butterscotch c hips and cream in a 
microwave safe bowl. Microwave in 30 second intervals until melted.
7. Dip or drizzle butterscotch topping on pumpkin cereal cups.I built this recipe around my love for all things pumpkin.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
5 cups crispy rice cereal
3 tbsp unsalted butter
1 cup canned pumpkin puree
1 (10 oz) bag mini marshmallows
½ tsp pure vanilla extract
1 tsp cinnamonButterscotch Glaze
¼ tsp nutmeg
1⁄8 tsp ground cloves
1⁄8 tsp salt
½ cup butterscotch (or caramel) 
chips
3 tbsp heavy creamPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
201Salted Dark Chocolate  
 Caramel Peanut Butter Cups
Directions:
1. In a bowl, combine peanut butter and powdered sugar, mixing together until smooth.  Place in the fridge 
while you melt the chocolate.
2. T o prepare the chocolate, pour chips into a microwave safe bowl and heat for 30-second int ervals. Stir in 
between each 30 seconds until the chocolate is fully melted.
3. Spoon a tsp or so of chocolate into each cup, taking care to cover the entire bottom and up t he sides. The 
more chocolate on the bottom of the cup, the easier it is to remove. Place in the refr igerator for about 10 
minutes, or until the chocolate has set.
4. Fill the chocolate cup about ⅔ the way with the peanut butter mixture. T op with a small amo unt of 
caramel sauce until the cup is ¾ full.
5. Finally pour the chocolate over the top of the cup until full. Spr inkle the chocolate with some flakes of 
sea salt. Return to the fridge for an additional 10 minutes.My goodness gracious! Not only are these peanut butter cups easy to make, they get a grown up twist by u sing dark 
chocolate and filling them with peanut butter AND caramel. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 cup peanut butter
¼ cup powdered sugar10 oz dark chocolate
¼ cup caramel sauce
Sea saltPan: 2 standard 12-cup silicone mufﬁn pans or 1 mini 24-cup silicone mufﬁn pan
Party Time:  Keep the tray you plan to serve the peanut butter cups in the fridge or freezer until it is time to 
plate. That will help the chocolate from melting before people have had a chance to enjoy i t. 
203
Golden S’more  
 Blondie Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat even to 350°F and spray a standard muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl whisk together egg, brown sugar, and vanilla. When the butter has cool ed slightly, add it 
to the bowl and continue to whisk until smooth. Add the flour and stir just until com bined, taking care 
not to overmix.
3. Fold in graham cracker cereal, marshmallows, and chocolate chips with a rubber spatula.
4. Scoop the batter into the muffin cups and press down firmly into the bottom.
5. Bake at 350°F for 18–20 minutes, or until the bars have set and middle is firm.
6. Allow at least 30 minutes for the cups to cool before removing from the muffin pan. Who wants s’more blondies?
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
½ cup unsalted butter (1 
stick), melted
1 large egg
1 cup light brown sugar, 
packed1 tbsp vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose ﬂour
3–3 ½ cups of graham 
cracker cereal
1 cup mini marshmallows
1 cup chocolate chipsYo u  
w i ll  
need:
Mix It Up:  I really like using a really dark chocolate for this recipe becau se I feel it balances out all the  sugar. 
Semisweet and bittersweet chocolate chips work as well. And if you have a seriou s sweet tooth, try white 
 chocolate or butterscotch chips! 205
Turtle  
 Brownie Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray and lightly flour a mini muffin pan.
2. In a bowl, mix together butter, sugar, and cocoa powder. Stir in eggs, vanilla, c offee or water, and salt. 
Gradually pour in flour and mix until well incorporated.
3. Scoop about 1 tablespoon of batter into each muffin cup. Sprinkle the chopped p ecans on top of the 
brownie batter.
4. Bake at 350°F for 9–12 minutes, or until the brownies begin to pull away from the sides.
5. Remove from the oven and immediately press one piece of chocolate caramel candy in the t op of each 
brownie bite.
6. Allow the brownies to cool completely before removing from the pan. Run a knife aro und th edge of the 
cup to help loosen the brownie.
7. T op the turtle brownie bites with a caramel drizzle and serve.Brownies and caramel and pecans, oh my!
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
½ cup unsalted butter, melted
1 cup granulated sugar
²⁄³ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 eggs
2 tsp vanilla extract
1 tbsp brewed coffee or water¼ tsp salt
½ cup all purpose ﬂour
¼ cup pecans,  
ﬁnely chopped
1 bag soft chocolate covered 
caramel candies
Caramel toppingPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
Tip: Store in an airtight container at room temperature. They can be frozen for up to 3 months.207
Orange and Cranberry  
 White Chocolate Buttons
Directions:
1. Mix white chocolate with the shortening and orange extract. Add a pinch of salt and heat i n a microwave 
safe bowl at 50% at 1 minute intervals. Mix until smooth.
2. While the chocolate is in the microwave, add a pinch of sugar to a cutting board to minc e the orange zest. 
Combine zest, cranberry, and ginger in small bowl. 
3. Scoop a tablespoon of white chocolate into the bottom of each cup. T op the ch ocolate with the cranberry 
ginger mixture.
4. Place the tray in the freezer for 30–60 minutes or overnight.
5. Pop the chocolate out of tray and serve.Orange and cranberry are such a festive combination. I like to serve these lit tle treats around the holidays. A special 
thanks to my dear friend Deanna for helping me with this recipe.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
10 oz white chocolate
½ tsp shortening
¼ tsp orange extract
Pinch of salt2 tbsp cranberries, chopped
Zest of one small orange
Pinch of sugar
2 tbsp candied ginger, choppedPan: Mini 24-cup silicone mufﬁn pan209
Chocolate Banana  
 Cream Pudding Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a mini muffin pan.
2. Divide chocolate cookie dough into 24 equal pieces and roll into balls. Place one ball of  cookie dough 
into each muffin cup.
3. Bake for 13–15 minutes.
4. While cookie dough bakes, prepare the banana pudding and whipped cream. In a large bowl, add one 
package of banana pudding to 2 cups of cold milk. Whisk until combined. Place in r efrigerator for 5 
minutes.
5. In a food processor with a whipping blade or in a stand mixer with a whisk, whip heavy cream and van illa 
until it forms stiff peaks.
6. When the chocolate cookie cups are finished, remove from oven and allow to cool on a ra ck. The cups 
should start to sink in the middle. With the handle of a wooden spoon or your thumb (w hen it has 
cooled enough), press the divot even further to create a well for the pudding.
7. When the pudding is set, spoon a tsp of it into the cookie cups. Scoop the whipped cream i nto a zip top 
bag, cutting a corner off to pipe the whipped cream on top of the pudding. Place one v anilla wafer in the 
pudding.
8. Slice a banana very thin into 24 slices. Decorate with the banana and chocolate chips.Aren’t these beautiful? They are impressive looking but really easy to assemble. The y would make a great addition 
to a bridal or baby shower.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 (3.4 oz) pkg banana cream 
instant pudding
2 cups milk
1 pkg dark chocolate cookie dough¼ cup heavy whipping cream
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 banana
Vanilla wafers
½ cup dark chocolate chipsPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan211
Blueberry  
 Coconut Popsicles
Directions:
1. In a blender, combine yogurt and coconut milk. Blend until smo oth. Add blueberries and shredded 
coconut and puree.
2. Add one tablespoon of sugar and blend. T aste to see if it needs additional sweet eners.
3. Pour the smoothie mixture into the muffin cups, filling ¾ of the way to the top. Cover th e muffin pan 
with a sheet of foil. Press the foil to the muffin pan to trace the outline of muffin cu ps. Make a small cut 
in the center with a sharp knife. Using a popsicle stick or plastic spoon press thr ough slit in the foil.
4. Freeze the tray for 4 hours or overnight.For the first 3 years I lived in San Diego, I had no air conditioning in my house or my car. Summ ers were tough. 
I was warm a lot. T o help beat the heat, I drank a lot of smoothies. I’d love to say it was because they are fu ll of 
good-for-you stuff but really it was because they were cold and easy to make. Eventuall y I started making popsicles 
out of the smoothies to save for a quick dessert on those 85°F at 9 p.m. evenings. 
Pan: Mini 12-cup silicone mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 cup of frozen blueberries
½ cup of plain greek yogurt
½ cup of coconut milk¼ cup sweetened shredded 
coconut
1–2 tbsp of sugar or honeyYo u  
w i ll  
need:213Strawberry Chocolate  
 Hazelnut Pull-Apart Muffins
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and spray a standard muffin pan.
2. In a small bowl mix together cinnamon and sugar. In a separate bowl mix together cream cheese  
and chocolate hazelnut spread.
3. Make small marks in the dough to ensure uniform size. Start by making a mark in the middle, divin g the 
dough into two parts. Continue to mark in the middle of each section until you have 64 marks.
4. Using a very sharp knife, slice the dough on the marks creating discs of dough. Use a rolling pin to roll 
each slice out thinner to create more of a surface to spread the cream cheese mixture.
5. Brush each slice with melted butter and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
6. Spread cream cheese mixture on all but 12 discs. Place several slices of stra wberries on top of the  
cream cheese.
7. Stack 4 or 5 slices of dough and top with one of the 12 reserved discs so the stack starts and en ds with 
dough. Cut the stack in half down the middle, creating 10–12 slices. Place the slices, c ut side down, into 
the muffin cup. It should fit snuggly into the bottom of the cup.
8. Bake for 20–25 minutes, or until light golden brown.I like food that is fun to eat and fun to look at. When I was a kid my family would attend a brunch every N ew 
Y ears Day that was all about playing with your food. It was called the Football Bagel Brea kfast. Our friends would 
bring the most creative dishes. There was even a prize at this brunch for the best presenta tion. My favorites over the 
years include a football stadium made out of bagels and cream cheese, the iceberg made o ut of cream cheese, covered 
in black olive penguins, with a small scale replica of the Titanic crashed into it and a wo rld map made out of peas, 
Food should always be fun, that’s why I like this dish so much. Pull apart bread is just s o fun to eat.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 tube of refrigerated French bread 
dough
²⁄³ cup (8–10 whole) strawberries, 
sliced2 oz cream cheese, softened
2–3 tbsp chocolate hazelnut spread
2 tbsp butter, melted
¼ cup sugar
1 tsp cinnamonPan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
215
Toasted Coconut  
 and Caramel Cookie Cups
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a mini muffin pan.
2. On a baking sheet, spread coconut in an even layer.
3. T oast at 350°F for 3 minutes. Give the coconut a stir and continue to bake for another 2 minut es, or until 
golden brown. Remove the oven and place aside.
4. Next, divide sugar cookie dough into 24 equal pieces and roll into balls. Place one ball of co okie dough 
into each muffin cup.
5. Bake for 10–12 minutes.
6. When the cookie cups are finished, remove from oven and allow to c ool on a rack. The cups should start 
to sink in the middle. With the handle of a wooden spoon or your thumb when it has cool ed enough, 
press the divot even further to create a well for the coconut filling.
7. In a microwave safe bowl, pour a bag of caramel bits, milk, and salt and microwave for 3 minutes, s top-
ping and stirring every minute to prevent scorching. 
8. When the caramel has melted, add coconut to it and stir very quickly to combine. Save a s mall amount 
of coconut if you wish to use it as a decorative topping.
9. W orking very quickly and very carefully, use a small cookie scoop or tablespoon to cr eate a ball of coconut 
and caramel. The mixture is very hot so be mindful not to burn your hands. Ball up t he coconut caramel 
and place inside the cookie cups, pressing into the cup. Repeat with all the cooki e cups.
10. Freeze for 30 minutes. Once the cookie cups have hardened, microwave the chocolat e chips at 30-second 
intervals until melted. Place the rack over a baking sheet to catch any dripping ch ocolate.
11. Dip the tops of the frozen cups into the chocolate up the tops of the sugar cookie. P lace on the cooling 
rack to allow the excess chocolate to drip off. T op chocolate with any leftover toas ted coconut. Return the 
cups to the freezer for an additional 5 minutes.
12. When ready to eat, remove from the freezer and allow to come to room temperature before ea ting as they 
are very hard when frozen.There were moments during my recipe testing that I thought my roommate might strangle me. I m ade a total mess of 
the kitchen on more than one occasion. I think these coconut caramel cookie cups saved our r elationship and my neck.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 package sugar cookie dough
3 cups shredded coconut
1 (11oz) bag caramel bits3 tbsp milk
1⁄8 tbsp salt
1 cup chocolate chipsPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan217Bite-Sized Bacon  
 Pecan Pie Cookies
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a 24-cup mini muffin pan.
2. Split the dough into 24 equal pieces, about 1 tablespoon a piece. Roll each piece in to a ball and place into 
the cups of a greased mini muffin pan.
3. Press the dough into the bottom and up the side of each cup, leaving a shallow well in the mi ddle of 
each cup.
4. Place one piece of bacon and several chocolate chips into each cup.
5. In a bowl, mix together chopped pecans, whipping cream, and corn syrup. Either pipe o r pour the pecan 
mixture into each cookie cup. 
6. Bake at 350°F for 20 minutes, or according to cookie package directions.Y’all, there ain’t nothing like letting a little Southern cookin’ into your kitchen . These cookie cups are a quick and 
easy taste of a southern classic, pecan pie. Throw a little bacon and chocolate in there and fo lks won’t be able to resist!
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 (16.5 oz) package of pre-made 
sugar cookie dough
1 cup pecan halves, chopped
²⁄³ cup dark chocolate chips1 tsp dark corn syrup 
¼ cup heavy whipping cream
4 slices of thick cut bacon (I used 
hickory smoked), cooked and 
choppedPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
219
Bu~Nuelo Cups with  
 Mint Strawberry Salsa
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F and lightly spray down a 12-cup muffin pan.
2. Lightly butter both sides of each tortilla. Using the opening of a can or a biscui t cutter, cut circles into 
the tortilla. Y ou should be able to get 3 circles for each large tortilla.
3. Pour cinnamon and sugar into a plastic container or plastic bag. Throw tortilla circles int o the cinnamon 
sugar mixture and give it a shake. Coat both sides with cinnamon sugar.
4. Place one circle into each of the 12 muffin cups.
5. Bake at 350°F for 9–11 minutes.
6. While the tortillas are in the oven, mix the ingredients for the salsa together in a bowl.
7. Cover and place in the fridge while the tortillas cook and cool.
8. Once the tortillas have come out of the oven and cooled, fill them with strawberr y salsa and serve. 
Garnish with mint.Sweet or savory, almost every country has a version of fried dough. In France it ’s beignets, in Italy they’re called 
zeppoles, in East Africa they have mandazi, Chile has sopaipillas, Mexico has chur ros and in the States we have 
funnel cakes, doughnuts, elephants ears and Native American frybread, jus t to name a few. Buñuelos are a popular 
version of fried dough in many countries around the world including Argentin a, Cuba, Spain, Greece and Morocco. 
Traditionally they are served around Christmas time and are covered in cinn amon and sugar. Sizes and shapes 
vary but they are often rolled into balls before frying. My version of buñuelos stra ys a bit from tradition. I opted for 
an easier flatter version, using flour tortillas as my base and ba king them instead of frying. Still covered in plenty of 
cinnamon and sugar, these bowls make a great vessel for this fresh mint and strawb erry salsa.
Pan: Standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
4 (8 in) ﬂour tortillas
1 cup strawberries, diced
1 cup Granny Smith apples, diced
1 tsp fresh ginger, minced
Handful fresh mint, ﬁnely chopped1 tbsp fresh lime juice 
1 tbsp orange marmalade or jam 
1 tbsp olive oil or melted butter
3 tbsp sugar
1–2 tsp cinnamonYo u  
w i ll  
need:221
Waffle  
 Cup Sundaes 
Directions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F and lightly spray the desired amount of muffin cups.
2. Defrost 6 waffles at a time in the microwave for 30–45 seconds.
3. Carefully press the waffle into each cup. Press gently into the sides. The top of the waffles w ill stick up 
over the edge of the cups. This is the part that will get covered in chocolate.
4. Bake for 12–14 minutes, or until nice and crisp. 
5. In a microwave safe bowl, heat the chocolate chips at 30-second intervals until smooth.  Dip the cooked 
waffle cups in the chocolate to coat the rim.
6. Add your desired toppings to the chocolate before it sets. Nothing says birthday party like ice cream sundaes! Try adding these waffle cups to your next i ce cream social.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
6–12 frozen wafﬂes 
1–2 cup(s) chocolate chips, 
for meltingToppings:
Ice Cream
Sprinkles/Jimmies
Whipped Cream
Cherries
Walnuts/Almonds
BananasPan: Jumbo 6-cup or standard 12-cup mufﬁn pan
Party Time:  1.5 quarts of ice cream will fill 12 cups with a little extra leftover. Y ou can use the empty muffin 
pan to display all the available toppings for guests to choose from.223
Tequila Sunrise  
 Jello Shooters!
Directions:
1. Lightly spray a standard muffin pan and wipe out with paper towel. There should be just enough oi l to 
help in removal but without affecting the taste.
2. In a small saucepan, combine grenadine and water. Sprinkle 1 package of gelatin on top an d soak for 
2 minutes.
3. Over low heat, whisk the mixture together for 5 minutes. All the gelatin should hav e fully dissolved. The 
mixture should not boil.
4. Divide the mixture among the cups, about a tablespoon per cup. D ry off and level the bottom of desired 
number of cherries. Place one in the center of each cup. Refrigerate for an hour.
5. In the same saucepan, pour in orange juice and sprinkle 3 packages of gelatin on top. All ow it to soak for 
2 minutes. 
6. Over low heat, whisk together orange juice and gelatin for 5 minutes until fully diss olved.
7. Remove saucepan from the heat and stir in tequila.
8. Allow the mixture to cool slightly before pouring it over the grenadine cherry laye r.
9. Return the pan to the refrigerator. Chill for 4 hours or overnight until set.Oh yes I did. Jello shots in the muffin pan. Y ou can also use boxed jello to create your favorite sh ot flavor or color 
combination. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
¾ cup grenadine
¼ cup water
4 envelopes gelatin1½ cups orange juice
1½ cups gold tequila
Maraschino cherriesPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans
Note: If you want a gradient effect instead of two distinct layers in your tequila sunr ise shot, then chill 
the  grenadine layer for just 10 minutes before adding the orange layer. The orange la yer will sink slowly to the 
bottom, forming a gradient effect instead of a layered effect.225Strawberry  
 Pretzel Pie Bites
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 450°F and spray mini muffin pan, including the top of the pan.
2. Unroll two pie crusts onto a floured surface. Cut the pie dough into circles large enough t o reach up the 
sides of the muffin cup. Y ou may need to gather the scraps and roll out dough in order to get t he desired 
number of circles. Place pie dough circles in the muffin cups and prick the dough with a fo rk to release 
air bubbles.
3. Place the pretzels in a zip top bag. Crush using a rolling pin or the bottom of a sturdy cu p. Microwave 
butter until melted. T o the bag of pretzels, add the melted butter and sugar. Give t he bag a shake until the 
mixture is combined. Press a tsp or so of the pretzel mixture into the pie dough cups.
4. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until golden brown. When finished remove from oven and all ow to cool 
completely.
5. In a stand mixer bowl fitted with whisk attachment, whip together heavy cream, vanilla,  and powdered 
sugar on high. When the whipped cream has reached stiff peaks, after about 5 minutes, scoop out o f the 
stand mixer bowl and place in another bowl.
6. In the same bowl of a stand mixer bowl now fitted with paddle attachment, beat togethe r cream cheese 
and ¼ cup sugar. Carefully fold whipped cream into cream cheese mixture.
7. Pipe or spoon cheesecake filling on top of pretzels. T ap the tray on the counter to e nsure the filling moves 
to the bottom. Place a layer of 2 or 3 strawberry slices on top of the filling.
8. In a spouted bowl, mix together boiling water with gelatin. Add ice cubes and stir u ntil gelatin is dissolved. 
Pour gelatin over strawberry slices. Make sure to cover the entire top. Don’t w orry about overfilling.
9. Refrigerate the tray for 8 hours or overnight.These little bite-sized pies are everything. They are sweet, salty, creamy, and crunch y. I would suggest making two 
batches of these sweet and savory pies, one for you and your guests and one just for you. The ve ry first time I made 
them they didn’t make it beyond the refrigerator to the party. They are that good. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 box of refrigerated pie crusts
1 cup crushed pretzels
6 tbsp butter, melted
¼ cup sugar
2 (8 oz) pkgs of cream cheese, 
softened
¼ cup sugar1 pint heavy whipping cream
½ tsp vanilla
3 tbsp powdered sugar
½ lb frozen strawberries, thawed 
and thinly sliced
1 cup water, boiling
½ cup ice cubes
1 (6 oz) box of strawberry gelatinPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
227Tiramisu Pudding  
 in Chocolate Cups
Directions:
1. In a microwave safe bowl, melt chocolate in the microwave for about a minute and a half. Stop an d stir 
every 30 seconds to prevent scorching. Allow to cool slightly. The cooler th e chocolate is, the better it will 
adhere to the mold.
2. Pour a small amount of chocolate into either the silicone muffin pan or paper cups. Start b y spreading the 
chocolate along the bottom of the cup. Then, using a small amount from the bowl, spread t he chocolate 
up the sides of the cup. A paintbrush or the back of a spoon both work well for this a pplication.
3. Be liberal with the chocolate. The thicker the base, the easier it will be to remove and w ill help prevent 
cracking. T o ensure a thick layer, especially if the treats will be sitting out, al low the first layer of chocolate 
to set in the fridge for 5 minutes. Then remove from fridge and paint on a second layer of ch ocolate all 
around the cup.
4. Allow the cups to set in the refrigerator for an hour or more. Rem ove from the refrigerator when you are 
ready to fill.
5. While the chocolate sets, prepare tiramisu filling.
6. In a food processor fitted with a whipping attachment, whip together heavy cream and s ugar until it 
forms stiff peaks. Scoop out of the food processor and place in a bowl.
7. In the same food processor vessel, combine mascarpone, cocoa, K ahlua, and instant espresso. Combine 
well. Return whipped cream to the food processor bowl and fold until there are no streaks. 
8. Carefully remove chocolate bowls from the muffin pan. Spoon the tiramisu mixture into th e chocolate. 
Serve chilled.These little chocolate cups are so fun to make and great for entertaining. If tiramisu is n’t your thing, try filling these 
cups with berries and cream. So simple yet very impressive.
Pan: Standard 12-cup silicone mufﬁn pan
Ingredients:
1 (12 oz) bag chocolate 
chips
1 cup heavy cream
¼ sugar
1 cup mascarpone or ricotta1 tbsp unsweetened cocoa
1 tbsp coffee ﬂavored liquor 
or irish cream
1 tsp instant espresso 
granules 
Vanilla wafers, crumbledYo u  
w i ll  
need:
229
Chocolaty  
 Chex Bites
Directions:
1. Grease a muffin pan or use a silicone muffin pan.
2. In a large bowl combine chex, pretzels, toffee bits, and nuts.
3. In a small bowl stir together butter and vanilla. Pour butter mixtur e over chex and toss with your hands 
until well coated.
4. In a sauce pan over medium heat, combine peanut butter, corn syrup, and brown sugar. Co ok until the 
mixture begins to boil around the edges. Stir continuously so as to not burn the mixtu re. Remove the pan 
from heat and pour on top of the chex mix.
5. Gently stir the chex mixture around with a rubber spatula. Scoop the mixture into th e cups of the 
muffin pan.
6. Microwave chocolate chips in a bowl for 2 minutes, stopping to stir every 30 secon ds or so until fully 
melted. Spoon or pour chocolate over the tops of the chex bites.
7. Place tray in the refrigerator for an hour to set. When ready to serve, use a knife to pop t he bites out of 
the muffin pan.This is a simple snack, perfect for adding to school lunches or taking on a short hike. 
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
4 cups of Chex, Whole Wheat, 
Rice, or Corn
1 ½ cups pretzels, bite sized or 
crushed
1 cup mixed nuts or peanuts
1 (8 oz) bag Heath toffee bits¼ cup butter, melted
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 cup creamy peanut  
butter
1 cup corn syrup
1 cup brown sugar
3 cups dark chocolate chipsPan: 2 standard 12-cup mufﬁn pans, in silicone or metal231Caramel filled  
 Cinnamon Sugar Pretzel Buns 
Directions:
1. Preheat oven to 400°F .
2. Combine water, sugar, and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer; let sit 5 minutes until f oamy. 
3. Add flour, salt and butter; stir to combine. Using a dough hook, knead dough on me dium speed 5 
minutes until smooth, elastic, and slightly tacky (alternatively, you can turn t he dough out onto a lightly 
floured surface and knead by hand 10 minutes).
4. Shape dough into a ball and place in a large, lightly greased bowl. Cover with lightly grease d plastic wrap 
and let rise in a warm place 1 hour until doubled.
5. When dough is nearly doubled, combine water and baking soda in a large stockpot. Bring t o a boil. 
6. Punch down dough. Split the dough, you’ll only need half for this recipe. Pinc h off small piece of dough, 
just smaller than a ping pong ball. Flatten each piece of dough in your hand. In the center pla ce 3 or 4 
small caramel bits. Wrap the dough around the caramel. Repeat this until all the dough is used . 
7. Place about 4–5 bites at a time in the boiling water bath; boil 30 seconds. Using a slott ed spoon, remove 
bites and place in the wells of the muffin pan. Repeat with remaining pies.
8. Whisk together egg and water to create a wash. Lightly brush tops o f pies with egg wash. In a small bowl 
combine cinnamon and sugar. Generously sprinkle cinnamon sugar over the tops. Bake 12 to 14 mi nutes 
until golden brown and puffed. Cool slightly on a cooling rack before serving.I am not a big dessert person. I admit it. I prefer salty treats to sweets but I love these cin namon sugar pretzel buns. 
The surprise of having caramel in the middle is just enough sweet for me.
Yo u  
w i ll  
need:Ingredients:
1 ½ cups warm (105–110°F)  
water
1 tbsp granulated sugar
1 packet active dry yeast
4 ½ cups AP ﬂour
2 tsp kosher salt
4 tbsp unsalted butter, melted10 cups or 3 quarts of water
²⁄³ cup baking soda
Cinnamon
Sugar
Caramel bits
1 egg yolk
1 tbsp water
Kosher or sea saltPan: Mini 24-cup mufﬁn pan
232How to Host  
 a Mac and Cheese Bar
Now that you have popped the mac and cheese bites in the oven, it is time to set up your spread!
There are no limits for what tastes good on top of cheesy noodles. Y ou can serve up whatever yo u have 
on hand or stick to the theme of the party. Try using ingredients that compliment the r est of the fare. 
The possibilities are endless. 
Here are some ideas for toppings: 
Meat –  bacon bits, diced ham, grilled slices of chicken, prosciutto, sliced steak, lum p crab meat, ground 
sausage, diced Andouille, chopped salami, shredded pork, shrimp, chopp ed lobster, ground meat, shredded 
rotisserie chicken, chorizo, diced hot dogs 
V egetables –  cherry tomatoes, sautéed mushrooms, green onions, caramelized onions, green chi lies, chipotle 
peppers in adobo, spinach, jalapenos, roasted garlic, peas, banana peppe rs, chopped bell peppers, artichoke 
hearts, sun-dried tomatoes
Seasoning and Herbs –  Cajun seasonings, chili powder, Spanish paprika, basil, onion powder, p arsley, taco 
seasonings, seasoning salt, cilantro
Special T ouches –  buffalo sauce, sour cream, goat cheese, lime wedges, sriracha, waln uts, avocado, Gorgonzola 
crumbles, ranch, olives, potato chips, cubed cream cheese, ricotta
Once you’ve narrowed down your toppings, the muffin pan can be used to display them.  How’s that for 
multi-purpose?! Y ou can use the flat top of the muffin pan to label the toppings. Place t he tray next to 
the mac and cheese bites along with forks and napkins. 
It could also be fun to offer your guests some suggestions for topping combinations . Maybe a house 
specialty, a combo created for a guest of honor, a mixture befitting the birthday boy o r girl, etc. If you 
would like some ideas, why not try these flavor combinations:233Flashback
hot dog and potato chips . . . and ketchup,  
if you insist.
Bistro
caramelized onion, bacon bits, goat cheese
Buffalo
rotisserie chicken, crumbled gorgonzola and green onions, top with buffalo sauc e
Philly
sliced steak, bell peppers, sautéed mushrooms
Fiesta
chorizo, green chilies, cilantro, squeeze of lime
Bourbon Street
Andouille sausage, shrimp, peas, Cajun seasoning
There you go. The best part of the mac and cheese bar is that it runs itself. All you have to do is sit ba ck, 
watch your friends and family get creative and enjoy.234`
I can’t say thank you enough to the people who have helped me 
along this cookbook journey. T o my parents, T ony and Marie, thank 
you for being so supportive of this project. I really could not have 
done it without your help. Y ou believed in me, even on those days 
when I didn’t believe in myself. Y ou never doubted I would succ eed 
and for that I am truly grateful. I love you.
T o my brother and sister, Joey and Becky, you are my favorites. I am 
so proud of you both. Thanks for always making me laugh. 
T o my best friend, Nadia, thank you for answering my frantic phone 
calls and restoring my confidence in myself. Y ou said I could do it so 
I knew I could. I am so lucky to have your love and support.
T o my Bright Horizons family, a.k.a. The Sisterhood of the 
 Traveling Cat Pants, thank you for being my official taste testers. 
I really appreciate your feedback, compliments, and tips. Thanks for the adv ice, the endless amounts 
of patience, the time off, the extra hours, the rides to and from work, and the kin dness you’ve always 
shown. I am so happy to spend my days working along side such a fantastic team. 
Thank you to the HaHa Sisterhood for being an amazing extended family. Y ou have taught me so 
much about food, photography, and how to live a full and happy life. 
T o my roommate, thanks for letting me leave dirty dishes in the sink. Y our patienc e is really appreciated.
T o my friends and family who I have not named, thank you thank you THANK YOU! Many of you 
offered to clean dishes, test recipes, help cook, gave ideas, lent cookbooks,  lent kitchen space or just took 
me out when I needed a break. Y ou all hold a very special place in my heart. Emily,  Katie, and Kelly, I 
can't tell you how much I appreciate your words of encouragement while I nervously s ent my first draft Acknowledgments
235all the way from T anzania to New Y ork. Thank you for helping me keep my cool when all I wan ted to 
do was panic. Y ou guys are the best cheerleaders and travel partners anyone cou ld ask for.
A big thanks to Joey Sverchek for believing in me. I would not be writing this book if  it weren’t for you. 
And to my editor, Kristin Kulsavage at Skyhorse Publishing, for giving m e this opportunity to show 
off my skills. Thank you for your advice and patience. Y ou took a chance on me an d had faith in my 
abilities. That is the biggest compliment I could ever receive. Y ou have been wonder ful.236Apple Cinnamon Roll Oatmeal Cakes
Apple Rose Pies with a Cheddar Crust
Bacon Jalapeño Cheddar Corn Bread
Bacon Pecan Pie Cookie Cups
Baked Southwest Eggroll Cups 
BBQ Chicken Pizza Cups
Bean and Avocado Cups
BLAT Chicken Salad in W onton Cups
Blueberry Coconut popsicles
Blueberry French T oast Pull Apart Bread
Bonuelo Cups with Strawberry Mint Salsa
Breakfast Pizza Cups
Brie and Jam Pretzel Bites
Brown Sugar Baked Beans in Bacon Bowls
Brussels Sprout Gratin
Buffalo Chicken Meatloaf with Blue Cheese 
Mashed Potatoes
Cajun Corndogs (Mini Corndogs, grown up!)
Caprese Polenta Bites
Carrot Cake Pancake Muffins
Cheddar Sausage Biscuit
Cheese and Herb Pop Overs
Cheesy Broccoli Rice Bake
Chicken Alfredo Lasagna
Chicken Cordon Bleu Bites
Chicken Marsala Pot Pie
Chicken Parmesan Cracker Cups
Chilequiles
Chipotle Apricot Brie T art
Chocolate Banana Cream Pie BitesChocolately Chex Bites
Cinnamon Sugar Caramel Stuffed Pretzel Bites
Citrus Shrimp T aco Salad
Corn and Crab Cakes
 Country Sausage Dutch Babies
Cranberry Brie Bundles with toasted pistachios 
and green onions
Cream Cheese and Homemade Pepper Jelly 
W ontons
Creamy Avocado Beggar’s Purse
Crispy Edamame W onton
Croissant Egg Cups
Easy Cheesy Potato Cups
Egg White T urkey Bacon Feta Spinach Sun 
dried tomato Cups
Eggs Benedict Casserole Cups
Empadinha de Pollo
Fish T acos with creamy jalapeño sauce
Freezer Minestrone Soup
French Onion Soup Dumplings
Garlic Shrimp and Chive Puffs
Goat Cheese Fig Carmalized Onion Hand Pie
Gooey Coconut Caramel Truffles
Gorgonzola Cheesecake Bites with Pears  
and honey
Gyro Cups with T zatziki Sauce
Huevos Rancheros with Homemade tortillasRecipe Index237Irish Nacho Stacks
Italian Breakfast Stacks
Itty Bitty Lobster Rolls
King Ranch Cups
Latke Nests with Cranberry Apple Compote 
Lemon Basil Ricotta with Glazed Blueberries
Lightened Up Cheeseburger Pie
Lil’ Peanut Butter and Jelly Bread Puddin’
Loaded Potato Puffs
Love Muffins
Mashed Sweet Potato Puffs w/ Roasted Grapes
Mini “Clear out the fridge” Mac and Cheese
Mini “Gobbler” Pies with Rosemary Pesto
Mini Albondigas T ortas w/ Roasted  
T omato Sauce
Mini Burek
Mini Butternut Squash, Caramelized Onion and 
Gorgonzola Quiche 
Mini Pastalone
Monte Cristo Bundles
Not-So-Sloppy Joes
Pancetta Mushroom T assie
Peanut Butter Banana Monkey Bread
Philly Cheesesteak Bites
Polenta Egg Cups with Creamy Blue Cheese
Pretzel Dogs with Beer Cheese Dip
Prosciutto Crisps with Mint & Melon SaladProsciutto Mushroom Leeks and Goat Cheese 
Eggs Cups
Pumpkin Pie Krispie Treats with butterscotch 
frosting
Roasted T omato T arts w/ Whipped feta and 
herb oil
S’more Blondies 
Salami Boats with Antipasto
Salted Dark Chocolate Crunchy Peanut  
Butter Cups
Sausage and Pepper English Muffin Cups
Shredded Brussels Sprout Salad in  
Parmesan Cups
Smoked Gouda Soyrizo Jalapeño Poppers
Spaghetti Carbonara T wists
Spanikopita
Spicy Quinoa Bites
Stawberry Nutella Pull Apart Bread
Steak Frittata with a Sweet Potato Crust
Strawberry Pretzel Cheesecake Bites
Stuffin Muffins 
T equila Sunrise Jello Shooters!
Thai Chicken Peanut Rolls
Tiramisu Cups
T una Melts
T urtle Brownie Cups
W affle Cup Sundaes
White Chocolate Bark