Shu Mai, page 501
1
DUMPLINGS  
MADE SIMPLE
This chapter introduces the ingredients, tools, and know-how you 
need to start your dumpling journey. Even if you’ve only ever had 
dumplings through takeout or at dim sum restaurants, you’re in safe 
hands here. I’ll guide you through everything you need to know to 
make dumplings from scratch at home.2
 Dumplings for BeginnersWhy Make Dumplings at Home?
There are many benefits to making dumplings at home. Perhaps you want to control 
what goes into your dumplings, or maybe you don’t live near an Asian market to buy 
premade wrappers. For example, a friend has a shellfish allergy, which prevents her 
from going out for dim sum. Or, if you follow a gluten-free diet, you might have a hard 
time ordering safely in a restaurant. Whatever your motivation, this book will show you 
how to create authentic flavors with your own wrappers and fillings.  Making dumplings 
is not exactly an easy process, but I’ll break it down for you into doable steps.
What’s in a Dumpling?
Most Asian dumplings consist of a piece of dough wrapped around a filling. There 
are many variations of dumpling wrappers and fillings as well as cooking methods. 
Dumplings can be bite-size or large, savory or sweet—but the most important quali-
ties of a dumpling are the texture and flavor of its wrapper and filling. Wrappers can 
be crunchy, soft, chewy, or tender. Fillings must be extremely flavorful and tender. The 
possibility of combinations is endless!
This book covers some of the most well-loved traditional Asian dumplings that are 
boiled, steamed, pan-fried, or deep-fried. Y ou’ll get recipes for shu mai, har gow, fried 
wontons, and many other classics. The book also includes some steamed baos, which 
aren’t technically dumplings but still encase a flavorful filling and are steamed and 
pan-fried just like dumplings.
The first dumplings are said to have originated more than 1,800 years ago in China 
during the Han dynasty. As the legend goes, one very cold winter, a man named 
Zhang Zhongjing returned to his village after traveling and found people starving. 
T o help them, he cooked some meat, flavored it with herbs and spices, and wrapped 
small portions of the meat with scraps of dough. He folded the dumplings in a shape 
to resemble ears. He boiled the dumplings and served them to his community. The 
villagers were so grateful for his creation that they continued to make dumplings 
throughout the year in his honor.
T oday, dumplings are enjoyed around the world. Nearly every cuisine features a 
dumpling-like dish that represents its own culture and flavors. And specifically, almost 
every Asian culture features dumplings that are similar in shape and cooking method 
with varying fillings and wrappers. Japanese gyozas, for example, are like Chinese pot -
stickers: both are shaped into a pleated crescent and pan-fried.3 Dumplings Made Simple ASIAN DUMPLING CHEAT SHEET
Bao: A fluffy steamed bun made from soft, yeasted dough; can be filled with savory or 
sweet fillings or enjoyed without filling.
Char siu bao: A steamed bun with a Chinese barbecue pork filling; technically not a 
dumpling but enjoyed with dim sum.
Gyoza: The Japanese potsticker; the filling can be similar to Chinese potstickers, but 
the wrapper is thinner, like a wonton wrapper.
Har gow: Steamed shrimp dumpling made with see-through crystal dumpling dough 
so the cooked shrimp inside shows through.
Jiaozi: Chinese steamed dumplings, usually enjoyed during Lunar New Y ear celebra-
tions; often filled with ground pork and vegetables.
Mandu: Korean dumplings, generally folded using the wonton fold (with round wrap-
pers) or pleated crescent fold; can be steamed, boiled, added to soup, or pan-fried.
Momo: Steamed dumplings filled with spiced ground meats and vegetables; these 
dumplings are enjoyed in Tibet, Nepal, Bhutan, and India.
Potsticker: Its Chinese name, guotie, translates to “wok stuck. ” It’s a delicious acci-
dent—a cook let dumplings steam too long in the wok, resulting in nearly burnt 
bottoms that were crispy yet steamed.
Shengjian bao: This Shanghainese breakfast staple is a bao filled with savory fillings 
and pan-fried for a crispy bottom.
Shiu jiao: Its literal translation, “water dumpling, ” is the basic Chinese boiled dump-
ling. When steamed, this dumpling becomes a jiaozi. When pan-fried, it’s a potsticker.
Shu mai: A popular steamed dumpling in dim sum restaurants, shu mai is small, 
cup-shaped, and typically filled with pork and shrimp.
Wonton: Named for its tortellini-like shape, wontons use thin, translucent wrappers 
made from flour and water; served boiled and then added to soups or deep-fried.
Xiao Long Bao: The word “xiao long” refers to the small bamboo steamer baskets in 
which they are cooked. These originate from the Shanghai region of China and are 
called “soup dumplings” for the filling that yields a rich, flavorful soup.4 Dumplings for BeginnersYour Dumpling Tool Kit
Making dumplings at home requires proper tools and equipment. I’ll cover the essen-
tials here, as well as some nice-to-haves that make the process more efficient.
FOR MAKING WRAPPERS AND FILLINGS
Cutting boards: One cutting board for animal proteins and another for vegetables 
and fruits to avoid cross-contamination; choose wood composite or plastic boards 
that are sturdy and have a wide surface but can fit in your dishwasher.
Knives: An all-purpose chef’s knife and a paring knife work fine.
Measuring cups and spoons: Keep a standard measuring cup and spoon set 
handy. Pay attention to what the amounts look like when you measure them, so you 
can begin eyeballing your amounts for faster prep.
Mixing bowls: At least two mixing bowls—one for the dumpling dough and another 
for the filling; metal bowls are lighter to lift than glass or ceramic and can cool the 
filling faster.
Plastic scraper: A thin, flexible plastic baker’s scraper comes in handy when turn-
ing out your dumpling dough from the bowl to the counter to knead it smooth. The 
scraper is also rigid enough to cut the dough into small pieces. 
Prep bowls: Small reusable bowls that range from 1/ 4 cup to 2 cups in size for hold-
ing measured ingredients.
Small rolling pin or dowel: When rolling out dumpling wrappers, the smaller the 
rolling pin, the more control you have. A thick wooden dowel a little wider than the 
width of your hand is ideal.
Strainer or colander: Keep one small wire-mesh strainer for sifting lumpy flour and 
one large strainer to drain canned goods or salted cabbage. A colander is helpful to 
drain washed greens.
Whisk and wooden spoon: The best tools for mixing doughs and fillings are your 
hands, but a whisk is helpful to incorporate dry ingredients for a dough, as is a 
wooden spoon to mix it all together.
FOR COOKING YOUR DUMPLINGS
Chopsticks: Chopsticks are great for lifting delicately steamed dumplings from their 
baskets, eating, and for general use. If you don’t have chopsticks, tongs work just as well. 5 Dumplings Made Simple Large saucepan: For making soups and sauces, you’ll need a saucepan large 
enough to hold 3 to 4 quarts.
Nonstick skillet with lid: This is a must-have for cooking potstickers and shengjian 
bao. A nonstick surface will keep the dumplings from sticking, and the lid will trap 
the steam. If you are concerned about nonstick material, consider choosing pans 
made from ceramic titanium, such as Scanpan.
Spatula: A thin, flexible metal spatula can easily slip underneath an unruly pot -
sticker and unstick it; however, if your nonstick pan is coated, choose a silicone 
spatula to prevent scratching the pan.
Spider: Also called a skimmer, a wide mesh spider is an essential tool for lifting 
deep-fried dumplings from hot oil and transferring boiled wontons from their cook -
ing water into soups. In a pinch, a slotted spoon works, too.
Steamer baskets: Classic stacking bamboo steamer baskets that come with a lid 
are inexpensive and handy—and not just for steaming dumplings. These baskets are 
made to fit over woks, but they can perch over a stockpot, if necessary, if the pot is 
wide enough for the baskets to sit and create a tight seal. Rinse the baskets under 
warm water before steaming so they do not absorb too much steam while cooking. 
An expandable metal blossom steamer basket is perfectly fine for steaming dump-
lings, too. 
Wide stockpot with lid or a Dutch oven: The stockpot should be wide enough for 
the bamboo steamer basket to sit atop it, and deep enough to hold 6 to 8 quarts of 
water for boiling and steaming or oil for deep-frying.
NICE-TO-HAVES
Baking sheets and wire cooling racks: When deep-frying dumplings, I like to lift 
them out of the oil and set them onto a wire rack set over a baking sheet to drain. 
Food processor: Some dough and filling recipes call for a food processor to mix 
them. Y ou can certainly achieve the final product by hand, but a food processor can 
save you time. The only downside is having to clean it.
Instant-read thermometer: If you are concerned about food safety, use an 
instant-read thermometer to check the internal temperature of your filling, espe-
cially when cooking raw ground meat. The cooked temperature should read 165°F 
(74°C). A thermometer can also read the correct temperature of frying oil when 
setting up for deep-frying dumplings.6 Dumplings for BeginnersKitchen scale: The Master Dough recipes feature both volume and weight measure-
ments, so if you have a scale, by all means use it. Some cooks prefer to weigh the 
dough and fillings to maintain exact portions, too.
Portion scoop, #70: A commercial #70 scoop yields 70 portions from a quart of 
product. This size roughly translates to a generous tablespoon, which is a common 
amount of dumpling filling.
Tortilla press: If you have trouble manipulating the dough rolling it by hand, a tor -
tilla press can be a helpful alternative.
Wok: Choose a lightweight carbon steel or nonstick 12-inch wok and make sure 
to get a tight-fitting lid. Scanpan makes the most fantastic nonstick woks I have 
ever used.
Your Dumpling Pantry
A well-stocked pantry is key to cooking dumplings. The good news is that many of the 
ingredients used are staples that can last quite a while in the refrigerator or cupboard.
DOUGHS AND WRAPPERS
Active dry yeast: A leavening agent for bao dough; store in an airtight container in 
the freezer.
All-purpose flour: Choose unbleached flour for basic dumpling wrappers. 
Baking powder: Added to bao dough for extra fluffiness.
Cake flour: Low in protein and bleached, this finely-milled flour gives the steamed 
baos their bright white color and fluffy, cake-like texture.
Store-bought dumpling wrappers: Round in shape, they are slightly thicker than 
wonton wrappers and can be used for virtually any dumpling, like potstickers, gyoza, 
and even shu mai. Look for them in the refrigerated section of your local supermar -
ket, usually near the tofu.
Store-bought wonton wrappers: It’s hard to make wonton wrappers from scratch 
at home and get the paper-thin sheets without a pasta roller. Square-shaped 
store-bought wrappers can be great time-savers for wontons and parcel-folded 
dumplings, such as crab rangoon. Choose thin wrappers for boiled wontons, 
medium and thick wonton wrappers for steamed and deep-fried dumplings.7 Dumplings Made Simple Sweet potato flour: The main ingredient in crystal dumpling dough, this turns from 
opaque white to translucent when cooked. In a pinch, potato starch or wheat starch 
works as a substitute.
Tapioca starch: Extracted from the cassava root, this starch makes crystal dump-
ling dough more pliable. A little goes a long way, so buy a small amount.
FILLINGS
Bamboo shoots: Y oung and tender bamboo shoots have a soft texture, like green 
beans, and a mild flavor, like celery.  Like water chestnuts, they can be found fresh 
seasonally at many Asian markets and canned ones, whole or sliced, are available at 
most conventional grocery stores.
Cabbage: In dumpling fillings, cabbage is lightly salted to remove as much water 
as possible to improve its flavor and texture. Napa cabbage, softer in texture and 
milder in flavor than regular cabbage, is another good option. Use the broad outer 
leaves to line the bottoms of steamer baskets when cooking dumplings.
Chinese five-spice powder: A classic ground spice blend of star anise, cinnamon, 
cloves, fennel seeds, and Sichuan peppercorns, five-spice gives a pleasant warming 
sensation without being too “spicy. ”
Curry powder: A little bit of this spice blend goes a long way; choose mild or hot to 
your liking.
Ground chicken, pork, or turkey: Ground (or minced) meat is an ingredient in tra-
ditional dumpling fillings.
Mushrooms: When cooked down to remove water content, chopped mushrooms 
stand in nicely for ground meat. Dried shiitake mushrooms can be rehydrated in hot 
water, or processed to a fine powder to add more umami flavor.
Shrimp: Another popular filling ingredient, shrimp can be combined with ground 
meat. Shu mai uses small amounts of ground dried baby shrimp in the filling to 
provide a savory base.
Sichuan peppercorns: These are actually seeds from trees grown in China’s Sich-
uan province. Their slight lemony flavor creates a tingling sensation in your mouth.
Spinach: Dark greens provide great color and texture to fillings. Wilt and squeeze 
the spinach as dry as possible before chopping and adding it to the filling.8 Dumplings for BeginnersWater chestnuts: These starchy nuggets are tender but crunchy. If you can’t find 
fresh ones, canned versions already peeled and sliced work fine.
White pepper: Adding white pepper to fillings avoids marring the dish’s aesthetics 
with black pepper flecks. It also gives a more earthy flavor than the basic heat of 
black pepper. White peppercorns are the same as black peppercorns, except that 
white ones are soaked and have their outer husks removed.
SEASONINGS, SAUCES, AND ACCOMPANIMENTS
Black bean sauce: Popular for stir-fry recipes, black bean sauce can instantly trans-
form a simple dumpling filling by adding more flavor.
Black vinegar (Chinkiang): A rich, dark rice vinegar like aged balsamic vinegar; 
used in dipping sauces and marinades to lend an acidic balance.
Hoisin sauce: Hoisin is a sweet and salty soybean and chili sauce used often as an 
ingredient in fillings.
Kimchi: A spiced, fermented cabbage condiment from Korean cuisine is an essen-
tial ingredient in kimchi mandu. Keep a jar in your refrigerator. It keeps for months 
and can be added to virtually anything to enhance flavor (eggs, noodles, steamed 
rice, etc.).
Oyster sauce: Made from fermented oyster extract/flavoring, this dark, thick sauce 
is full of umami flavor. Y ou can find vegetarian oyster-free versions of this sauce, if 
you prefer.
Salted mustard greens: These greens add a nice contrast to rich, fatty fillings, such 
as the one you might find in pork wontons.
Sesame oil: The nutty aroma and flavor of sesame oil boosts overall flavor and adds 
richness to your dumpling filling.
Shaoxing rice wine: Fermented rice wine with a low alcohol content (look for 15 to 
16 percent ABV) adds depth of flavor to fillings, especially those with ground meat. 
Double-check the label for no more than 1.5 percent salt.  Salt increases shelf life. 
Dry sherry can be used as a substitute.
Soy sauce: Use Chinese-style soy in Chinese recipes and Japanese-style soy in Jap-
anese recipes. In Chinese cooking there are three types of soy sauce: light (thinner, 
lighter, and saltier), dark (deeper flavor and less salty), and a mushroom-flavored 
soy that adds an umami punch.9 Dumplings Made Simple The Steps to Dumpling Success
In this section, I’ll give a brief overview of the dumpling-making process. We’ll take a 
deeper dive into dough making and shaping wrappers later, in chapter 2. Y ou’ll find 
that making dumplings doesn’t have to be an all-in-one go. Here, I point out where you 
can break up the steps over a few days. In fact, some fillings develop better flavor and 
texture when left to sit for a day or two.
MAKE YOUR DOUGH
If you can stir together flour and water, you can make dumpling dough from scratch! 
Before we go through making your own wrappers in chapter 2, it’s good to have a 
high-level understanding of the major steps.
Mixing the dough generally involves stirring together the dry and wet ingredients. 
As soon as the mixture forms a shaggy mass, you’ll start kneading it until it turns 
into a smooth ball, which takes 4 to 5 minutes. Resting allows the dough to relax and 
loosen, making it stretchier and more pliable, before rolling and shaping the dough 
into wrappers.
After resting, you can cut the dough into small equal pieces, then roll each piece 
into flat, round wrappers. Keep the dough and wrappers covered with plastic wrap 
as much as possible. Overall, the entire process to prepare the wrappers takes 
about 45 minutes.
MAKE YOUR FILLING
For fillings, my best advice is to have all the ingredients measured before you start. 
Some fillings, at the start of the process, require 20 to 30 minutes of downtime (like 
salting cabbage), so get that going first. Finish the remaining prep while you wait.
When making meat-based fillings, thoroughly mix the filling until it begins to look 
like a thick paste. When squeezed in the palm of your hand, the filling mixture should 
hold together without falling apart. Many fillings benefit from 30 minutes of chilling in 
the refrigerator, or up to two days, if covered tightly. Chilling helps the flavors develop 
and improves the texture of the proteins. This makes dumplings tender and juicy 
when cooked.
Y ou can make the filling a couple days ahead, and if necessary, you can also freeze 
it. Seal the raw filling in gallon-size heavy-duty resealable bags, flatten, and freeze in a 
single layer.
PORTION AND SHAPE YOUR WRAPPERS
After the dough rests, portion and roll out the wrappers. There are two methods for 
portioning—figure out which one works best for you. The first method involves a 10 Dumplings for Beginnerskitchen scale: weigh the dough and divide the total weight into 24 equal balls. The 
second method is less exact: divide the dough into two equal pieces. Roll each piece 
into a log 8 inches long, about 11/2 inches thick. Cut the logs into 12 equal pieces and 
roll each piece into a ball. Keep the balls covered with plastic wrap until you are ready 
to roll the wrappers.
T o roll out the wrappers, a short wooden dowel or rolling pin is the best tool; how -
ever, flattening crystal dough using a tortilla press is a great way to get kids to help. 
Keep the wrappers covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out.
When first starting out, roll out six wrappers at a time, then fill and fold the dump-
lings. Wrappers become dry and brittle and will be difficult to pleat the longer they sit 
out. If you have friends and family helping, set up an assembly line: form wrappers, 
then fill, then fold.
FILL AND FOLD YOUR DUMPLINGS
When filling dumplings, less is more. Overfilling leads to burst dumplings when they’re 
cooked. When placing filling in the wrapper, aim for the center of the wrapper and 
slightly flatten and spread the filling, leaving at least 1/ 4-inch of space around the edges 
for sealing.
A good way to fill dumplings is to lay out the wrappers and then portion the filling 
into them all at once. This way, you can focus on placing an equal amount of filling on 
each wrapper. Each dumpling recipe offers guidance on how much filling to place on a 
wrapper, but a generous tablespoon is more than enough.
Folding dumplings takes practice. Restaurant workers fold hundreds of dumplings 
in one shift so muscle memory eventually takes over. Y ou, too, will get better at it the 
more you do it. Even if you have a hard time making decent-looking pleats, as long as 
you get the entire wrapper to seal around the filling so nothing leaks out, you’re good 
to go. My special trick is to pinch and seal tightly with my thumb and index finger, 
using a small dab of cornstarch slurry if the wrapper edges feel too dry.
HOW TO STORE YOUR DUMPLINGS
If you are not planning to cook your freshly folded dumplings right away, store them 
on a baking sheet lined with parchment or wax paper and tightly wrapped with plastic 
wrap. They will keep in the refrigerator for up to two days.
A word on large batches of dumplings: when making multiple batches, keep your 
filling in the refrigerator and work with small portions at a time to keep the filling from 
becoming too warm. Move batches of folded dumplings into the refrigerator while you 
continue to fold. Don’t let the raw dumplings sit out at room temperature for more 
than two hours before storing them properly or cooking them.11 Dumplings Made Simple STOCK YOUR FREEZER
The best thing about making multiple batches of dumplings is you can freeze them 
to have a stash of dumplings ready to go. Y ou’ll have delicious dumplings in minutes 
without having to make them from scratch.
Y ou can also freeze dumpling components ahead of time, such as dumpling wrap-
pers, fillings, stocks, and soups.
Wontons and dumplings made with basic dumpling wrappers can be frozen raw, 
then cooked from frozen. Steamed baos and crystal dumplings are best frozen after 
cooking, then reheated. Y ou can also freeze Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20) wrappers 
on their own, as long as they are prerolled and stacked with wax paper between them. 
Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and make sure you label and date the package.
TO FREEZE DUMPLINGS
/uni25B8Lay them on a baking sheet lined with parchment or wax paper. Make sure they 
do not touch.
/uni25B8Wrap them tightly with plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour, then move 
to the freezer overnight.
/uni25B8T ransfer the frozen dumplings to an airtight container or bag. Label and date 
the container.
/uni25B8Frozen dumplings will last in the freezer for one to two months.
/uni25B8Frozen dumplings should be boiled, steamed, or pan-fried from frozen—do not let 
them thaw. Just give them a few extra minutes to cook.
One caveat when cooking frozen dumplings: do not deep-fry them! Instead, fry the 
freshly made dumplings, then cool to room temperature before freezing. Reheat them 
on a sheet pan in a 350ºF oven until heated through and crispy.12 Dumplings for BeginnersDUMPLINGFREEZE RAW 
OR COOKED?HOW LONG 
WILL THEY 
KEEP?HOW TO 
REHEAT/COOK
BAO Cooked 2 to 3 months Steam to reheat 
BOILED 
OR STEAMED 
(JIAOZI, MANDU, 
XIAO LONG BAO)Raw 1 to 2 months Cook from frozen 
CRYSTAL 
DUMPLINGCooked 1 month Reheat from frozen 
PAN-FRIED 
(GYOZA, 
POTSTICKERS)Raw 1 month Cook from frozen 
SHU MAI Raw 1 to 2 months Cook from frozen
WONTONS Raw 1 to 2 months Boil from frozen 13 Dumplings Made Simple Dumpling Cooking Techniques
In this section, we’ll cover four dumpling cooking techniques, each yielding a different 
texture. I’ll also teach you which dumplings can be cooked multiple ways.
BOILING
The simplest way to cook dumplings at home is to boil them in seasoned water. When 
paired with a flavorful sauce or condiment, like chili oil or vinegar, boiled dumplings 
are perfectly balanced with a tender but chewy exterior and a juicy filling. Added to a 
flavorful broth, boiled dumplings can also make a hearty soup.
Wontons and any dumplings made with Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20) can be 
boiled—just make sure the filling is sealed tightly with no gaps in the dough!
STEAMING
Steamed dumplings come in a variety of shapes and sizes: translucent crystal dump-
lings like har gow, cup-shaped shu mai, fluffy char siu bao, and many other delicious 
combinations of fillings folded into interesting shapes.
Steaming is a fast cooking process. Many recipes take just a few minutes to cook 
through. As with boiling, no oil is used, so the only flavor comes from the filling. Y ou 
don’t need a bamboo steamer, but you’ll need at least a stockpot, steamer basket, and 
lid. Serve steamed dumplings with a flavorful sauce or condiment.
PAN-FRYING
This method is a combination of steaming and pan-frying. First, the dumplings are 
briefly fried to develop a light crust on their bottoms, then a small amount of water 
is added to the pan. The pan is covered, and the steam cooks the dumplings. Finally, 
the lid is lifted, and any residual water is allowed to evaporate; during this process the 
bottoms become deep brown and crispy.
Potstickers, gyoza, and shengjian bao are the most common pan-fried dumplings, 
but nearly any dumpling made from Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20) or Bao Dough 
(page 22) can be pan-fried. Serve the dumplings crispy-bottom up!
DEEP-FRYING
The magic of a deep-fried dumpling! Its golden, crunchy exterior makes it easy to pop 
one straight into your mouth, so it makes the perfect finger food for parties.
Deep-fried dumplings are best for those dumplings made with wonton skins, Basic 
Dumpling Dough (page 20) wrappers, and Crystal Dumpling Dough (page 21). Make 
sure the filling doesn’t have excess moisture, as the dumplings tend to explode from 
the steam expanding in the filling as they cook.14 Dumplings for BeginnersTroubleshooting Your Dumplings
How many dumplings should I serve per person?
Generally, serving three to four different types of dumpling, with two of each type per 
person, makes a satisfying meal. Serve a platter of noodles or sautéed vegetables on 
the side to round out the meal.
How do I stop my dumplings from unraveling/bursting when I cook them?
The trick is to seal them well and to make sure there are no holes or gaps where the 
filling can seep out, or the wrappers can fall apart. T o prevent bursting, squeeze out 
as much excess moisture from wet filling ingredients as possible before mixing into 
the filling.
My frozen dumpling skins are cracked. How do I rescue them?
Sadly, there isn’t much that can be done if frozen dumpling skins are cracked—it’s a 
form of freezer burn, where the wrapper loses too much moisture to the freezer envi-
ronment. If you have fresh dumpling wrappers, you can rescue the filling and place 
them into fresh skins. T o avoid cracked dumplings, don’t keep them in the freezer for 
more than one to two months. And chill the fresh dumplings in the refrigerator for an 
hour before moving them to the freezer.
How can I make sure my filling is seasoned correctly before I fold a bunch of 
dumplings?
T aste test your filling by cooking a small meatball-size patty in a skillet. After 
you’ve tasted the cooked filling, you can decide if you need to add more salt or 
other seasonings.
Help! My dumplings clump together/stick to the pan when I cook them.
If the dumplings stick together during cooking, that’s a sign they didn’t have enough 
room around them when cooking and were too crowded in the pan. Add more water 
to the pan to steam them, then carefully pry them apart. If they stuck together while 
boiling, there wasn’t enough water in the pot. T ry boiling them again in fresh water 
and pull them apart gently. If your potstickers are stuck to the pan, add more oil to 
the pan and tilt the pan to slip the oil underneath the dumplings. T urn off the heat 
and let the dumplings rest for a few moments. Sometimes, potstickers will contract 
and unstick themselves. A very thin, flexible metal spatula, like a fish turner, can also 
slip underneath and dislodge them.15 Dumplings Made Simple How can I tell when the dumplings are cooked?
Boiled dumplings may float before they are fully cooked. Recipes that include raw 
ground meat in the filling call for boiling the dumplings, then adding cold water to 
bring the temperature down, then boiling the cooking water at least twice to ensure 
the filling is cooked through. T o make sure, sacrifice one dumpling and insert the 
probe of an instant-read thermometer into its thickest part. A fully cooked filling 
should be at least 165°F (74°C).
How to Use the Recipes
The recipes in this book focus on the most popular and beginner-friendly dumplings. 
Once you’ve mastered these recipes, experiment with more creative fillings and 
doughs. Start with the basic half-moon fold, or the wonton fold, before moving on to 
the more intricate pleated crescent or xiao long bao fold.
Chapter 2 includes three Master Dough recipes and folding instructions for five 
different classic dumpling shapes, including my favorite, the parcel fold! Chapters 3, 4, 
and 5 include instructions for making the fillings, plus cooking instructions for boiled, 
steamed, and pan-fried dumplings. Each recipe in chapters 3, 4, and 5 calls for one of 
the Master Dough recipes and one of the folding instructions provided in chapter 2. 
Chapter 6 covers soups, sauces, and other dumpling accompaniments.
Each dumpling recipe also features Cooking Tips to help with preparation. Make 
It Easier tips offer ideas for saving time or effort, and Mix It Up tips show you how to 
create new versions of a classic dumpling.
My hope is that this book will help you feel confident making dumplings at home. 
Pick your favorite dumpling and cook it several times to master it. Make notes on the 
pages to remind yourself what worked, and what you want to do differently next time. 
I hope you enjoy making dumplings at home and delight your friends and family with 
your new skills and creations!17
2
A STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE  
TO DOUGHS AND FOLDS
If you think making dumplings is too difficult, I have news for you. 
Wrappers are easier to make than you think. But it’s totally fine to 
use store-bought wrappers, too. In fact, there’s nothing wrong with 
using premade wrappers, especially if you’re making your own fill-
ing and folding them yourself!
In this chapter, I’ll show you how to make dumpling dough from 
scratch and how to create the most common dumpling folds. Let’s 
get started!18
 Dumplings for BeginnersA Dumpling Dough Primer
This section covers the different types of dumpling doughs as well as their shapes and 
sizes. I’ll also introduce five easy folds that you’ll use to make the dumplings in this book.
STORE-BOUGHT VERSUS HOMEMADE
The ongoing debate over store-bought versus homemade wrappers rages on. Let me 
share the merits of each, so you can decide for yourself.
Store-bought wrappers are time-saving, convenient, and uniform in size and thick -
ness, but they aren’t as easy to pleat as homemade wrappers. And, depending on 
where you live, there may be limited choices available.
Homemade wrappers can elevate your dumpling quality and you can add flavoring 
elements to customize them. They are inexpensive to make, and when you roll them 
out, the edges get thinner than the center, which makes pleating them easier. The only 
drawback is time: the dough must rest before you can roll each wrapper to size.
Unless you need to make a dumpling like har gow, which requires the crystal dump-
ling wrapper—which must be made from scratch—you can use store-bought wrappers 
for most dumplings in this book.
TYPES OF DOUGH
There are as many kinds of dough for equally as many types of dumplings; however, 
this book covers the three main wrappers, or what we call Master Recipes.
Basic dumpling dough. This is the main, all-purpose wrapper you can make if you 
decide to forego the store-bought varieties.
Crystal dumpling dough. When cooked, this wrapper turns translucent, showing the 
filling inside. Though it’s mainly used for steamed shrimp dumplings like har gow, I’ve 
seen crystal wrappers used for colorful vegetable fillings for maximum visual impact.
Bao dough. Used for most of the steamed buns (or baos), this yeasted dough yields 
a soft, fluffy texture that is more cake-like than a burger bun.
Y ou can customize each dough to suit your style and tastes, adding spices and vege-
table powders to create new flavors and colors.
WRAPPER SIZES AND SHAPES
Every dumpling starts out with either a round or square wrapper. But it’s the folding of 
the wrapper that determines the final shape of the dumpling.
The thickness of the wrapper determines the texture of the cooked dumpling. For 
instance, wontons generally require paper-thin square wrappers to create a soft, slip-
pery texture, whereas potstickers use thicker round wrappers for a chewier texture.19 A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds Experimenting with different wrappers is the best (and most delicious) way to 
determine which shape and thickness is most appropriate. When eating out, order a 
variety of dumplings and pay attention to their folds, shapes, and the thickness of the 
wrappers. T ake photos for reference and recreate them at home. The best part is, you 
get to eat your practice dumplings!
WORKING WITH 
STORE-BOUGHT WRAPPERS
As Ina Garten says, “store-bought is fine!” I agree with her wholeheartedly 
when it comes to wrappers. Here are some tips for success when working with 
store-bought wrappers:
/uni25B8Keep the wrappers refrigerated and use them within five days of purchase.
/uni25B8The wrappers might be drier than homemade ones. Lightly mist with water from a 
spray bottle, then blot with a paper towel. Or, remove from the packaging and wrap 
the wrappers in damp paper towels for about 30 minutes before using.
/uni25B8Make the wrappers thinner by rolling them out with a small dowel or rolling pin. T rim 
to original size with a round cutter or paring knife.
/uni25B8The drier the wrapper, the more difficult it will be to pleat and seal the dumpling. Mix 
1 teaspoon (3 g) cornstarch with 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water and moisten the 
edges of the wrapper using your finger dipped in the slurry before pleating. This will 
help glue the edges together.Dumplings for Beginners 20Master Dough #1
BASIC DUMPLING DOUGH
Makes 24 dumplings aCtive tiMe 10 minutes rest tiMe 40 minutes, or up to 2 hours
Here is the all-purpose dumpling wrapper you will use for potstickers, gyoza, and boiled, 
steamed, or fried dumplings. You only need all-purpose fl  our, a pinch of salt, and some 
water! Play around with the thickness of the wrapper for diff  erent textures.
11/2 cups (187 g) 
all-purpose fl  our
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon 
(255 g) warm water1. In a mixing bowl, stir together the flour and salt.
2. Slowly pour in the water and mix to com-
bine with a wooden spoon. Stir until a shaggy 
dough mass forms.
3. T ransfer the dough to a clean work surface and 
knead it for 4 to 5 minutes until the dough is 
smooth and supple.
4. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let the dough 
rest at room temperature for at least 40 minutes, 
or up to 2 hours, before cutting and rolling 
into wrappers.
20A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds 21Master Dough #2
CRYSTAL DUMPLING DOUGH
Makes 24 dumplings aCtive tiMe 15 minutes rest tiMe up to 1 hour
Crystal dough is the translucent wrapper used specifi  cally for Har Gow (page 55) and 
 Crystal Chive Dumplings (page 63) to let the delicious fi  lling peek through the wrapper. 
Thanks to the sweet potato starch, the uncooked wrapper looks opaque, but it changes 
consistency and texture as it steams. For a pop of color, add ½ teaspoon beet powder or 
ground turmeric to the dough.
3/ 4 cup (96 g) sweet 
potato starch
1/3 cup (40 g) 
tapioca starch
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup (240 g) hot water, 
just boiled
1 tablespoon (14 g) 
canola oil
Cornstarch, for dusting1. In a mixing bowl, stir together the sweet potato 
starch, tapioca starch, and salt.
2. Pour the hot water over the starch mixture and stir 
together until just combined. The mixture will look 
rough and shaggy with some dry spots.
3. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let rest for 
10 minutes. This allows the dough time to absorb 
the water and for the steam from the hot water to 
develop the dough’s texture.
4. Add the oil and mix the dough until it becomes 
crumbly.
5. T ransfer the dough to a clean work surface and 
knead the dough with your hands for 4 to 5 minutes, 
or until smooth. If the dough seems a bit sticky, dust 
your hands with cornstarch and keep kneading.
6. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and let rest at room 
temperature for up to 1 hour, covered with a towel to 
keep it warm, so it is pliable for folding.
21Dumplings for Beginners 22Master Dough #3
BAO DOUGH
Makes 24 buns aCtive tiMe 15 minutes rest tiMe 1 hour for starter, 
plus 1 hour to proof
Soft, white, and fl  uff  y, this bao dough can be used for steamed buns like the Char Siu Bao 
(page 54) and pan-fried buns such as Shengjian Bao (page 75). The key ingredient here is 
cake fl  our, which creates a soft, tender crumb.
For the starter
1 cup (240 g) luke-
warm water
1/2 cup (100 g) sugar
2 teaspoons (6 g) active 
dry yeast
11/2 cups (195 g) cake fl  our
For the dough
1 tablespoon (15 g) 
rice vinegar
1/2 teaspoon (3 g) 
kosher salt
2 cups (240 g) cake 
fl  our, plus 1/ 4 cup (30 g) 
for dusting
1 tablespoon (14 g) 
baking powder
1/ 4 teaspoon (1 g) 
baking soda 
1 tablespoon (14 g) 
unsalted butter, at room 
temperature
Nonstick cooking spray1. To make the starter: In a large bowl, stir together 
the water, sugar, and yeast. Set aside for 10 minutes, 
or until the mixture starts to foam.
2. Stir in the cake flour until well mixed. Cover the bowl 
with plastic wrap and let the mixture rise in a warm 
place for 1 hour.
3. To make the dough: Stir the vinegar and salt into 
the starter. In another bowl, sift together 2 cups of 
cake flour, the baking powder, and baking soda.
4. Stir the flour mixture into the yeast mixture to com-
bine. Add the butter, mixing it in with your fingers 
until the dough becomes a sticky, shaggy mass.
5. Dust a work surface with flour and transfer the 
dough to it. Knead the dough for about 5 minutes, 
or until smooth, sprinkling with more flour 
as necessary.
6. Coat the inside of a large bowl with cooking spray. 
T ransfer the dough to the oiled bowl and cover it with 
a damp cloth or plastic wrap. Let it rise in a warm 
place for 1 hour.
7. Lightly push down the dough and knead it into a 
smooth ball. Keep the dough tightly wrapped in 
plastic wrap until ready to use. Do not let it sit at 
room temperature for more than 1 hour to avoid 
overproofing.
2223 A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds HOST A DUMPLING PARTY!
Many hands make light work, as the saying goes. Just as it’s more fun to enjoy dump-
lings with friends and family, it’s even more fun to get them in on the action by hosting 
a dumpling party! Best of all, having friends and family help assemble the dumplings 
means you can enjoy them that much faster.
TIPS FOR HOSTING A SUCCESSFUL DUMPLING PARTY
/uni25B8Prepare all the fillings and wrappers ahead of time. Guests can help with rolling, 
filling, and pleating. It will go faster if you have everything prepared and ready to go 
for assembly. Har gow, steamed baos, and shu mai are always party favorites.
/uni25B8The same goes for any dipping sauces, teas, and snacks. Have these prepared and 
ready to go.
/uni25B8Keep the folding simple. Decide on two or three easy folds you can show others 
how to make, like the half-moon and parcel folds. Don’t get too focused on how the 
dumplings turn out. As long as the dumpling is filled and wrapped and somewhat 
pleated, it will taste delicious!
/uni25B8Set out multiple piles of wrappers, small bowls of filling, and several sets of tools 
and slurry so people aren’t reaching over each other.
/uni25B8Get creative! Set up a mixing station of proteins and filling ingredients and invite 
guests to create their own fillings.
/uni25B8Avoid anything that requires deep-frying, as it can be unsafe if people aren’t paying 
attention. Instead, make pan-fried dumplings, such as potstickers or shengjian bao.Dumplings for Beginners 2424 24Portioning and Rolling Out Your Wrappers
So, you’ve got your dumpling dough. Now, it’s time to turn it into dumpling wrap-
pers. Keep in mind, store-bought wrappers have way more than 24 in each package, 
whereas the dough recipes in this book yield about 24 wrappers. Y ou can scale up 
the recipe if you need more than 24 dumplings.
The best place to start is by cutting your dough into 24 equal pieces. Let’s walk 
through the steps:
1. Place the dough on a clean work surface. Using a knife or pastry bench 
scraper, cut the dough into two equal pieces. Wrap one half in plastic wrap 
and set aside.
2. Using the flat part of your palms, roll the dough into a 6-inch-long log, 1 to 
11/2 inches in diameter.
3. Using a knife or a bench scraper, halve the log crosswise. Then, halve each 
piece crosswise again to yield four equal pieces.
4. Cut each piece into thirds, making 12 equal pieces.
5. Roll each dough piece into a ball and place on a baking sheet. Cover with 
plastic wrap. Repeat the process with the reserved dough from step 1.
STEPS 3 & 4 STEP 5A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds 25256. Flatten a dough ball with your fingertips, then use a rolling pin to roll it into a 
flat, thin disk, about 1/ 4 inch thick.
7. Lift and rotate the disk 20 degrees clockwise. Then, roll the right side of the disk.
8. Keep lifting and rotating the dough as you roll it until the wrapper takes on a 
round shape and expands to 4 inches in diameter. The edges should be thinner 
than the center.
9. Repeat the rolling process with the remaining dough balls and keep the finished 
wrappers loosely covered with plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out. 
They can be loosely stacked on top of each other without sticking together.
The first time doing this, I recommend rolling out a few wrappers and then filling 
and folding them right away. The thin wrappers can dry out quickly, so rolling only a 
few at a time and keeping the balls covered with plastic wrap will help keep your wrap-
pers moist and pliable.
Folding Techniques and Tips
Let’s talk about folding the dumplings. The five folding techniques presented here 
represent the most popular dumpling shapes you can easily make at home. Y ou’ll learn 
basic folds like the half-moon, classic shapes like the wonton fold and pleated crescent 
for potstickers, and the box fold for a more contemporary look. We’ll even cover the 
traditional soup dumpling fold. Even if you’ve never folded a dumpling, I’ll show you, 
step-by-step, how to get the most authentic and delicious results.
Here are some tips for dumpling folding success:
Keep fi  llings chilled. Use a small bowl of filling when making dumplings and refill it 
from the main bowl in the refrigerator when you run out. Keep your filling chilled as 
much as possible until the dumplings are ready to be cooked. The proteins will also 
keep their shape better when cold.
STEP 6 STEP 7Dumplings for Beginners 2626Less is more. Overfilling makes it difficult to fold the dumplings. Use less filling than 
you think you need to get the shape down first. Once you’ve gotten the hang of fold-
ing them, you can gradually increase the amount of filling in the dumplings.
Practice makes perfect. Fold and pleat using your dominant hand while holding the 
wrapper steady in your other hand.
Prep your wrappers. T o prevent dry wrappers, keep them under plastic wrap or 
under a damp cloth. A light dusting of rice flour or cornstarch between the wrappers 
can help keep them from sticking together.
Seal the deal. Close your dumplings tightly, so the fillings don’t seep out during 
cooking. If you are using store-bought wrappers, use my magic sealing solution (see 
below) to help glue the pleats and folds together. It’s basically a cornstarch slurry, 
but you can also use water or egg whites to help seal the edges.
Fold #1: The Basic Half-Moon Fold
This is the easiest shape for boiled or steamed dumplings. Y ou can make a variation of 
this fold using a square wrapper to make a triangle fold.
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. Skip 
the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought wrappers 
stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than homemade ones).
2. Lay 1 round wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon (weight varies) 
of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the filling slightly.
3. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper all the way around, 
re-dipping as necessary.
4. Fold the bottom edge of the wrapper up over the filling to 
meet the top edge and press at the top center to seal it. 
Press down the sides and pay attention to sealing the cor-
ners well, so the filling doesn’t leak out. If some of the filling 
squeezes out as you seal the wrapper, open the wrapper and 
carefully remove some of the filling.
5. Place the sealed dumpling on a baking sheet and cover with 
plastic wrap. Repeat the process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers.
 STEP 5A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds 2727Fold #2: The Pleated Crescent Fold
This shape is the most common and recognizable fold for many Asian dumplings, and 
it is typically used for gyoza, har gow, and potstickers.
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. 
Skip the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought 
wrappers stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than homemade 
ones).
2. Lay 1 round wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon (weight varies) 
of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the filling slightly.
3. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper all the way around.
4. Pick up the top edge of the wrapper and, working from left to right, make 5 to 
7 overlapping pleats across the edge, keeping the pleats as close together 
as possible.
5. As the pleats form, you’ll notice the wrapper begins to cup around the filling.
STEP 5 STEP 4
continues ⊲Dumplings for Beginners 2828
STEP 6 STEP 8
6. Bring up the bottom edge and line it up with the top edge of the pleats. Press 
the edges together and seal the corners so the filling doesn’t leak out.
7. Holding the dumpling by the ridge of pleats on top, gently tap the dumpling on 
the board, creating a flat bottom. As you do this, use your fingers to help form a 
curved crescent. The dumpling should be standing straight up.
8. Place the finished dumpling on a baking sheet and cover with plastic wrap. 
Repeat the process with the remaining wrappers and filling.
Fold #3: The Classic Wonton Fold
This is the folding process for the classic wonton dumpling, whether it’s boiled, then 
served in soup, or deep-fried.
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. 
Skip the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought 
wrappers stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than homemade 
ones).
2. Lay 1 square wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon (weight varies) 
of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the filling slightly.
3. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper around all four sides.
4. Lift the two opposite corners to meet, forming a triangle. Use your fingertips to 
seal the sides of the triangle while squeezing out as much air as possible.A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds 2929
STEP 4 STEP 5
5. Pull the opposite two corners toward each other and crisscross them together. 
Pinch and seal where they meet as though you are making an X with the two 
ends. Use a dab of slurry to help keep them together, if needed.
6. Place the sealed dumpling on a plate and cover with plastic wrap. Repeat with 
the remaining wonton wrappers and filling.
Fold #4: The Parcel Fold
This is a more difficult fold but has a nice contemporary look when it’s cooked. 
Y ou see this shape more commonly with deep-fried dumplings such as Crab Ran-
goons (page 78).
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. 
Skip the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought 
wrappers stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than 
homemade ones).
2. Lay 1 square or round wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon 
(weight varies) of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the 
filling slightly.
3. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper around all four sides.
continues ⊲Dumplings for Beginners 30304. Bring two opposite edges of the wrap-
per together and pinch them together 
in the center.
5. Then, bring the other two opposite sides 
together and pinch in the center.
6. Pinch together each of the four “petals” to 
create an X, squeezing out any air from the 
dumpling before sealing the edges.
7. T ransfer the sealed dumplings to a plate and 
cover with plastic wrap. Repeat with the 
remaining wrappers and filling.
Fold #5: Soup Dumpling Fold
Aside from the pleated crescent, the soup dumpling fold is the other most recogniz-
able shape for classic dumplings such as Xiao Long Bao (page 52) or steamed momos. 
T ypically, these dumplings are steamed and reveal a tender, juicy filling inside once 
cooked. Y ou can use this folding method to create steamed baos as well. This fold 
starts out like the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27) but the pleating continues all 
the way around the edge of the wrapper, not just on one-half of the wrapper.
1. If using store-bought wrappers, in a small bowl, stir together 1 teaspoon (3 g) 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon (15 g) warm water to create a cornstarch slurry. 
Skip the slurry if using homemade wrappers. The slurry helps store-bought 
wrappers stick together to seal (they have a drier consistency than homemade 
ones).
2. Lay 1 round wrapper on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon (weight varies) 
of filling in the center. Use the back of the spoon to flatten the filling slightly.
STEP 4 STEP 5
STEP 6A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds 31313. If using store-bought wrappers, dip the tip of your index finger into the slurry 
and moisten the edge of the wrapper all the way around.
4. With your nondominant hand, pick up the wrapper and pinch the edge with your 
thumb and index finger at the 12 o'clock position. While cupping the dumpling 
in your palm, gently hold the top edge of the wrapper with your thumb and 
index finger. 
5. Using your dominant thumb and index finger, hold the same edge 2 inches away 
from the place you’re already holding it.
6. Gently stretch the wrapper a tiny bit with your free hand, then fold the stretched 
edge over itself, making a pleat. Pinch to seal.
7. Continue making pleats around the dumpling; the pleats will come together, 
forming a circle, and the wrapper will form a cup. It’s okay if you have to stretch 
the wrapper a bit to keep pleating.
8. When you have completed pleating around the entire circumference of the 
wrapper, gather the pleated edges together and twist, pinching them into a little 
top knot. Grasp the top knot and lift the dumpling up, letting it suspend briefly 
to stretch the shape into a pouch. This helps create that classic soup dumpling 
shape when steamed.
STEP 5 STEP 6
STEP 7
STEP 8
continues ⊲Dumplings for Beginners 32329. Set the dumpling in a steaming tray lined with Napa cab-
bage leaves and repeat the process with the remaining 
wrappers and filling.
10. T o use this pleating method for steamed baos, 
press the bao dough into a 4-inch-wide circle, 
place the filling in the center, and make larger 
pleats all the way around. Gather up all the pleats 
to create a pouch. Gather the top and twist it into a 
knot. Y ou don’t have to create pleats for this bao—
just bring up all the edges and twist into a top knot.
STEP 9
33 A Step-by-Step Guide to Doughs and Folds Troubleshooting Your Dough
Don’t be discouraged if your dumplings aren't “restaurant quality” at first.  Here are 
some troubleshooting tips and answers to the most common dumpling problems.
Can dumpling wrappers be made without flour for gluten-free options?
Absolutely! T ry the Crystal Dumpling Dough (page 21), which is gluten-free; and use 
gluten-free baking mixes such as King Arthur's Measure for Measure flour instead of 
all-purpose flour for the Basic Dumpling Dough (page 20).
How thick should the dumpling wrapper be when rolled out properly?
When rolled out, the wrapper should be between 3 and 4 inches in diameter and have 
the same thickness as a tortilla. As you rotate and roll the wrapper, the edges will 
become thinner than the center of the wrapper, which is great because thinner edges 
make for easier pleating.
My dumpling dough seems stiff and dry. What can I do to fix that?
If the dough seems dry, perhaps a little more water is needed. As you knead, sprinkle 
some water on the surface.
Can I freeze the dumplings?
Absolutely! The best practice is to assemble the dumplings completely and freeze 
them on a baking sheet. Once they are frozen, transfer them to a resealable bag. Cook 
them from frozen—there is no need to defrost the frozen dumplings before cooking.
Can I freeze store-bought wrappers?
Yes, you can. Thaw them in the refrigerator for three to four days before using. They will be 
less pliable, but spray them lightly with water and roll them out a bit before using them.
What should I do if my dumpling wrappers tear?
You can repair small tears and holes by rolling out a very thin piece of another dump-
ling wrapper. Brush the slurry over the tear and patch it. Roll out the wrapper to 
smooth out the thickness.
I steamed my char siu baos in a bamboo steamer and they came out yellow. 
What happened?
Bamboo steamers, especially newer ones, give off a golden-colored steam, which will 
tint your dumplings. When cooking dumplings such as potstickers or har gow, you 
won’t notice it much. However, the yeasted buns will take on the color much more. T o 
avoid this, steam the buns in stainless-steel steamers instead.Shui Jiao, page 36
353
BOILED DUMPLINGS
If you’re new to making dumplings, start with the boiled dumplings 
in this chapter, like Shui Jiao (page 36) and Beef and Scallion Dump-
lings (page 41). Boiling is the simplest cooking method and ensures a 
tender, juicy filling. Many of the fillings you’ll find here also work in 
the steamed or pan-fried dumplings in chapters 4 and 5. You can also 
change up the wrappers and folding methods to suit your taste.
Shui Jiao 36
T raditional Soup Wontons 37
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil 38
Mandu-guk (Kimchi Dumplings in 
Egg Drop Soup) 39
Fish and Napa Cabbage  
Dumplings 40
Beef and Scallion Dumplings 41Charred Cabbage and  
Chive Dumplings 42
T ofu and Carrot Wontons 43
Mushroom and Bamboo Shoot 
Dumplings 44
T urkey and Black Bean Sauce 
Dumplings 46
Spicy Shrimp Dumplings 47
36
 Dumplings for BeginnersSHUI JIAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Shui jiao, or “water dumplings,” are an everyday staple in many Chinese households. 
Shaped like half-moons and filled with pork and vegetables, these are tasty and hearty. 
Make an extra batch to keep in the freezer when you’re short on time. They can be on the 
table in the time it takes to boil the water!
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
8 ounces ground pork
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
Pinch ground white pepper
2 tablespoons sesame oil
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 to 3 tablespoons 
Scallion-Ginger Oil  
(page 102), for garnish
Mix it uP: After boiling these 
dumplings, you can pan-fry 
them to add a crispy texture to 
the skins. Follow the pan-frying 
instructions in chapter 5 (see 
page 70).1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the 
spinach, ground pork, soy sauce, rice wine, and white 
pepper. Add the sesame oil and ginger and mix until 
thoroughly combined. Cover and refrigerate while 
you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with a cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
4. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 
8 cups of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to 
dissolve.  Add the dumplings, gently stirring to keep 
them from sticking. Bring the water back to a boil, 
then add 1 cup of cold water.
6. Bring the water to a boil again and cook the dump-
lings for 7 to 8 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they float. Using 
a spider, transfer the dumplings to a warm platter. 
7. Serve with the scallion-ginger oil.37
 Boiled DumplingsTRADITIONAL SOUP WONTONS
serves  4 PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 20 minutes
With its comforting broth and soft, velvety texture, wonton soup always brings back child -
hood memories. Mom and I had an agreement: if she needed me to help fold wontons, I’d 
fold them while watching Saturday morning cartoons.
8 ounces shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
1 (4-ounce) can sliced 
bamboo shoots, drained 
and chopped
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon light soy sauce
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
8 cups Wonton Soup Broth 
(page 90)
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
Mix it uP: Add some variety 
and color to your soup by serv-
ing these with Tofu and Carrot 
Wontons (page 43).1. Make the filling: Roughly chop half the shrimp and 
set it aside. Finely chop the remaining shrimp, cre-
ating a shrimp paste, and place it in a medium bowl. 
Fold in the roughly chopped shrimp pieces. Add the 
bamboo shoots, ginger, sesame oil, and soy sauce. 
Gently stir together until thoroughly combined.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edge of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
3. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
4. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring the 
wonton broth to a boil, then reduce the heat to 
medium-high. Add the wontons and simmer for 3 to 
4 minutes until cooked through, or until the wrap-
pers turn translucent.
5. Divide the wontons and soup among warmed 
bowls and garnish with scallions. Cool for at least 
1 minute, then serve.38
 Dumplings for BeginnersSICHUAN WONTONS IN CHILI OIL
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
A popular Sichuan street food, these spicy wontons in chili oil are perfect for a winter night. 
The recipe also works great as an appetizer and helps prepare the palate for the main part 
of the meal.
12 small shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
8 ounces ground pork
3 garlic cloves, smashed
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
Sichuan peppercorns
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup chili oil
2 tablespoons Chinkiang 
vinegar 
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilan-
tro leaves
Cooking tiP: If you can’t 
find Chinkiang vinegar, sub-
stitute 2 tablespoons balsamic 
vinegar and 1 tablespoon rice 
vinegar.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine 
the shrimp, ground pork, garlic, soy sauce, rice 
wine, Sichuan pepper, and sugar. Pulse to form a 
smooth paste.
2. In a medium bowl, stir together the chili oil and vine-
gar and set aside.
3. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edge of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
6. Add the dumplings, gently stirring to keep them from 
sticking together. Bring the water to a boil again, 
cook the dumplings for 7 to 8 minutes, then add 
1 cup of cold water. Bring the water to a boil again 
and cook the dumplings for 7 to 8 minutes more. 
Reduce the heat and simmer the dumplings for 
2 minutes, or until they float. Using a skimmer, trans-
fer the wontons to a warm serving bowl.
7. Stir 2 tablespoons of cooking water into the chili oil 
mixture and drizzle it over the dumplings. Garnish 
with cilantro to serve.39
 Boiled DumplingsMANDU-GUK (KIMCHI DUMPLINGS 
IN EGG DROP SOUP)
serves  4 PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 35 minutes
Mandu-guk is a Korean-style dumpling soup served in a rich broth laced with egg. Tradi -
tionally eaten on New Year’s Day, mandu-guk uses beef or anchovy broth, but this version 
uses vegetable stock.
1 medium zucchini, grated 
and squeezed of excess 
moisture
1 cup kimchi, drained 
and chopped
2 fresh shiitake mush-
rooms, stemmed 
and minced
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
6 cups vegetable stock
3 large garlic 
cloves, smashed
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
3 scallions, green parts 
only, sliced on the diagonal
1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame seeds
Make it easier: Since this 
recipe uses wonton folds, you 
can use store-bought wonton 
wrappers, if you prefer.1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the zuc-
chini, kimchi, mushrooms, and cornstarch.  Set aside.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 31/2-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
4. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large saucepan, combine the 
vegetable stock, garlic, soy sauce, sesame oil, and 
salt. Bring to a boil and cook for 8 to 10 minutes. Add 
the dumplings and return the liquid to a boil. Reduce 
the heat to low and simmer the dumplings for 5 to 
8 minutes, or until they float.
6. Gently stir the soup and pour in the beaten eggs as 
you stir, creating ribbons of egg. Add the scallions 
and simmer for 30 seconds.
7. Divide the soup and dumplings among bowls. T op 
with sesame seeds to serve. 
 VEGETARIAN40
 Dumplings for BeginnersFISH AND NAPA CABBAGE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
These dumplings have a delicate flavor thanks to the cod, but you can use any mild white 
fish, such as sole, pollock, or haddock. Use fish sauce in place of the rice wine for a richer 
flavor. Enjoy these dumplings with Scallion-Ginger Oil (page 102).
2 cups shredded 
Napa cabbage
2 tablespoons kosher 
salt, divided
8 ounces cod fillets, cut 
into small chunks
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Ground white pepper
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1 batch Basic Dump-
ling Dough (page 20) or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Serve with XO 
Sauce (page 100) for a deeper 
umami flavor.1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with 1 tablespoon 
of salt for 10 to 15 minutes. Squeeze out the excess 
water, then transfer to a food processor.
2. Add the cod, rice wine, and a pinch of pepper to the 
food processor. Pulse until roughly chopped.
3. Add 2 tablespoons of water, the cornstarch, and 
scallion and pulse to form a smooth paste. Cover and 
refrigerate while you roll the dough, or up to 1 day.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings and bring the water to a boil 
again, stirring occasionally. Reduce the heat to low 
and simmer the dumplings for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until they float. Using a spider, transfer the dump-
lings to a warm platter. 41
 Boiled DumplingsBEEF AND SCALLION DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
This is a great starter recipe if you’re new to making dumplings. These easy and satisfying 
dumplings pair well with just about any garnish you can dream up, but Chili Crisp Sauce 
(page 99) is especially nice.
12 ounces ground beef
11/2 tablespoons light 
soy sauce
4 teaspoons sesame 
oil, divided
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground Sich-
uan peppercorns
1/ 4 cup chicken stock
1 tablespoon cornstarch
5 or 6 scallions, white and 
green parts, thinly sliced, 
divided 
1 batch Basic Dump-
ling Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt 
Mix it uP: Substitute ground 
turkey for the beef. The dump-
lings will be just as tasty!1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine the 
ground beef, soy sauce, 2 teaspoons of sesame oil, 
ginger, and Sichuan pepper and pulse to form a 
coarse paste. Add the chicken stock and cornstarch 
and pulse until well mixed.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a large bowl and stir in half 
the scallions. Cover and refrigerate while you roll the 
dough, or up to 1 day.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board, and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
5. Fold using the Basic Half-Moon Fold (see page 26). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
7. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
and cook for 7 to 8 minutes. Add 1 cup of cold 
water. Bring the water to a boil again and cook for 
7 to 8 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer for 
2 minutes, or until floating. Using a spider, transfer 
the dumplings to a warm platter.42
 Dumplings for BeginnersCHARRED CABBAGE AND CHIVE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 30 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
Roasting cabbage until it chars around the edges gives it a deeper, richer flavor. Give this 
one a try—it’s one of my favorites!
1/2 head green cabbage, 
cored and roughly chopped
4 fresh shiitake mush-
rooms, stemmed and sliced
2 garlic cloves, peeled
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
1 tablespoon
1/ 4 cup roughly chopped 
fresh Chinese garlic chives 
or scallions
1 tablespoon dark soy 
sauce or mushroom 
soy sauce
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine 
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon sriracha sauce
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Turn these dump-
lings into a delicious soup 
by adding them to a batch of 
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth (page 91).1. Make the filling: Preheat the oven to 450°F. Line a 
baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. On the baking sheet, toss together the cabbage, 
mushrooms, garlic, vegetable oil, and a pinch of salt. 
Roast for 15 to 25 minutes, or until the cabbage is 
charred around the edges.  Remove from the oven 
and let cool.
3. T ransfer to a food processor. Add the garlic chives, 
soy sauce, cornstarch, rice wine, sesame oil, and 
sriracha and pulse to form a thick paste. T ransfer to 
a bowl and set aside.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edge of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings, bring to a boil again, and cook 
the dumplings for 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce the 
heat and simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or 
until they float. 
  VEGAN43
 Boiled DumplingsTOFU AND CARROT WONTONS
Makes 24 wontons PreP  tiMe 1 hour 10 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
This plant-forward wonton is a lighter alternative to traditional wontons. Roasted car -
rots add sweetness and the hoisin sauce balances the Sichuan peppercorns for a satisfying 
flavor. Garnish with a drizzle of Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99) to serve.
5 or 6 medium carrots, cut 
into 2-inch chunks
3 garlic cloves, peeled
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
1 tablespoon
4 ounces firm tofu, drained 
and cubed
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and roughly chopped
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
2 teaspoons hoisin sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/ 4 teaspoon ground Sich-
uan peppercorns
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, sliced
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry  
(see page 26)
Chili Crisp Sauce  
(page 99), for serving
Make it easier: Use peeled 
baby carrots, if you’re short 
on time.1. Make the filling: Preheat the oven to 425°F. Line a 
baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. On the prepared baking sheet, toss together the 
carrots, garlic, vegetable oil, and a pinch of salt. 
Roast for 15 to 25 minutes, or until browned and soft. 
Remove from the oven and let cool.
3. T ransfer the carrots to a food processor. Add the 
tofu, ginger, soy sauce, hoisin, sesame oil, and Sich-
uan pepper. Pulse to form a smooth paste.
4. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in the 
scallions. Set aside.
5. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
6. Fold the wontons using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
and cook the dumplings for 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce 
the heat and simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or 
until they float. Using a spider, transfer the wontons 
to a warm platter.  
  VEGAN44
 Dumplings for BeginnersMUSHROOM AND BAMBOO 
SHOOT DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes, plus 30 minutes to cool  
Cook tiMe 25 minutes
This dumpling uses shiitake mushrooms for an earthy flavor and bamboo shoots for crunch. 
This recipe calls for shiitake and cremini mushrooms, but experiment with your favorite 
mushrooms. Use a vegetarian stir-fry sauce, like Lee Kum Kee’s, which is a great alternative 
to oyster sauce.
3 cups fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed 
and chopped
2 cups fresh cremini 
mushrooms, stemmed 
and chopped
1 (8-ounce) can bamboo 
shoots, drained 
and chopped
1 small shallot, chopped
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 tablespoons vegetarian 
stir-fry sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh cilantro
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
1 tablespoon kosher salt
Mix it uP: These dumplings 
make fantastic potstickers. 
Fry them using the potsticker 
cooking method (see page 70) 
instead of boiling.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine the 
shiitake and cremini mushrooms, bamboo shoots, 
shallot, and ginger and pulse to form a coarse paste.
2. In a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat, 
heat the vegetable oil. Add the mushroom mixture, 
spread it into an even layer, and cook for 4 minutes, 
undisturbed. Stir and cook for 15 minutes more, or 
until most of the liquid has cooked off.
3. Stir in the stir-fry sauce and sesame oil and remove 
the skillet from the heat. T ransfer the mixture to a 
medium bowl, fold in the cilantro, and set aside to 
cool for about 30 minutes.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrappers with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
6. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling. 
 VEGETARIAN45 Boiled Dumplings7. Cook and serve: In medium stockpot, bring 8 cups of 
water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
8. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, and 
cook the dumplings for 3 to 4 minutes. Reduce the heat 
and simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they 
float. Using a spider, gently transfer the dumplings to a 
warm platter.46
 Dumplings for BeginnersTURKEY AND BLACK BEAN SAUCE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
The umami flavor of this dumpling comes from the black bean sauce, a staple in every Chi-
nese household pantry. A traditional filling would be made from ground pork. This recipe 
uses ground turkey for a lighter take on the classic filling.
5 ounces fresh baby 
spinach 
2/3 pound ground turkey
1/2-inch piece fresh 
ginger, peeled and 
roughly chopped
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons black 
bean sauce
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilan-
tro leaves
Cooking tiP: Leftover 
Thanksgiving turkey works 
great for this filling. Just chop 
it up and mix in with the rest of 
the ingredients in step 1.1. Make the filling: In a skillet over medium heat, cook 
the spinach for 1 to 2 minutes, gently stirring, until it 
wilts. Remove from the heat and transfer to a bowl 
to cool. When cool enough to handle, squeeze out 
as much excess water as possible. Roughly chop the 
spinach and set aside. In a food processor, combine 
the turkey, ginger, and cornstarch and pulse to form a 
coarse paste. Add the wilted spinach and pulse to mix.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in the 
black bean sauce. Cover and refrigerate while you 
roll the dough, or up to 1 day.
3. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold (see page 29). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the salt. Stir to dissolve.
6. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, 
cook for 7 to 8 minutes, then add 1 cup of cold water. 
Bring the water to a boil again and cook the dump-
lings for 7 to 8 minutes more. Reduce the heat and 
simmer the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they 
float. Using a spider, transfer the dumplings to a 
warm platter. 
7. Garnish with cilantro to serve.47
 Boiled DumplingsSPICY SHRIMP DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
The chili sauce in this filling gives these delicate shrimp dumplings a spicy kick. The chopped 
water chestnuts also add great texture to the filling. You can use Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99), 
but a store-bought sauce such as Lao Gan Ma works great, too.
2/3 pound shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1/ 4 teaspoon kosher salt, 
plus 1 tablespoon
Pinch ground white pepper
1/ 4 cup finely chopped water 
chestnuts
1 tablespoon Chili Crisp 
Sauce (page 99)
1 batch Basic Dumpling  
Dough (page 20), or 
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Mix it uP: Use this filling with 
the Crystal Dumpling Dough 
(page 21) for a spicy twist on 
a classic.1. Make the filling: Set aside one-third of the chopped 
shrimp. In a food processor, combine the remaining 
chopped shrimp, cornstarch, rice wine, ginger, soy 
sauce, 1/ 4 teaspoon of salt, and white pepper. Pulse 
to form a smooth paste.
2. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and stir in 
the reserved shrimp, water chestnuts, and chili crisp 
sauce. Cover and refrigerate while you roll the dough, 
or up to 1 day.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dumpling dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). 
Roll each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch 
thick around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. If using 
store-bought wrappers, moisten the outer edges of 
the wrapper with cornstarch slurry (see page 26).
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In medium stockpot, bring 8 cups 
of water to a boil and add the remaining 1 tablespoon 
of salt. Stir to dissolve.  
7. Add the dumplings, bring the water to a boil again, and 
cook for 4 to 5 minutes. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the dumplings for 2 minutes, or until they float.Har Gow, page 55
494
STEAMED DUMPLINGS
This chapter includes steamed dumpling classics like Shu Mai (page 50),  
Har Gow (page 55), and Char Siu Bao (page 54), as well as my take 
on popular Nepalese- and Indian-style dumplings such as momos. 
The famous Xiao Long Bao (page 52), also known as soup dump-
lings, requires a bit more effort than other recipes in this chapter, 
but its tasty reward far outweighs the work. 
Shu Mai  50
Xiao Long Bao  52
Char Siu Bao  54
Har Gow  55
Pork and Bok Choy Jiaozi  56
Chicken Momos with T omato 
Sesame Chutney  57Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy T omato 
Soup  59
Eggplant and Water Chestnut  
Half-Moons  61
Crystal Chive Dumplings  63
Crystal Wood Ear and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings  64
Red Bean Paste Baos  66
50
 Dumplings for BeginnersSHU MAI
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
Traditionally made with a pork and mushroom filling and garnished with a dab of cod roe, 
shu mai are small Cantonese dumplings found on dim sum menus around the world. This 
recipe uses minced carrot instead of fish roe to add a pop of color.
8 dried shiitake mush-
rooms, soaked in hot water 
for 15 minutes
4 ounces shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
finely chopped
8 ounces ground pork
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon dark soy sauce
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1/2 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
24 store-bought dumpling 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
1/ 4 cup minced carrot 
(optional)
Make it easier: If you can’t 
find round shu mai wrappers, 
choose square wonton 
wrappers and cut them into 
rounds with a 31/2-inch round 
cookie cutter.1. Make the filling: Drain the mushrooms, squeezing 
out the excess liquid. T rim off the stems and finely 
mince the caps. T ransfer to a medium bowl and add 
the shrimp, ground pork, cornstarch, sesame oil, soy 
sauce, rice wine, scallion, and white pepper. Stir to 
combine into a smooth paste.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
3. Gather the edge of the wrapper around the filling to 
form an open cup shape. With your dominant hand, 
make a circle using the tip of your thumb and index 
finger (the universal “okay” sign). Hug the dumpling 
inside the circle formed by your thumb and index 
finger and shape it into a tighter cup.
4. Holding the dumpling with your thumb and index 
finger, lightly tap the dumpling on the work surface 
to flatten the bottom.  The sides of the dumpling 
should stand straight up with an open top about 
11/2 inches across to expose the filling.
5. Garnish the center of the filling with minced carrot 
(if using). Place the dumpling into a steamer basket. 
Repeat the process with the remaining wrappers and 
filling. Y ou should be able to fit up to 12 dumplings 
in a 10-inch-wide steamer basket (you’ll need 
two baskets).51 Steamed Dumplings6. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups of water to a boil. Stack the steamer baskets 
over the pot and reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
low simmer.
7. Steam for 7 to 9 minutes, or until the dumpling skins look 
translucent and slightly wrinkly around the filling. When 
the dumplings are fully cooked, the internal tempera-
ture of the filling should read 165°F on an instant-read 
thermometer. Check and add more water to the pot, 
if necessary.
8. Remove the baskets from the wok and place on platters. 
Serve the dumplings directly from the baskets.52
 Dumplings for BeginnersXIAO LONG BAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 3 hours for soup; 40 minutes for dumplings  
Cook  tiMe 20 minutes
Your local butcher shop should have most of the ingredients for this classic soup dumpling, 
but try an Asian supermarket if you’re having trouble finding chicken feet or pork bones. 
The process of making these dumplings is more involved, but the juicy dumplings at the end 
are so worth it!
For the souP
8 ounces skin-on pork 
belly, halved
1 pound pork bones
8 ounces chicken feet
1 bunch scallions, 
white and green parts, 
roughly chopped
4-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and thinly sliced
2 tablespoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon kosher salt
For the Filling
2/3 pound ground pork
2 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1/2 teaspoon sugar
Pinch ground white pepper1. Make the soup: One to two days in advance, in 
a medium stockpot, combine the pork belly and 
enough water to cover. Bring to a boil, then remove 
from the heat. Rinse the meat with cold water. Halve 
the pork belly lengthwise and separate the meat 
from the skin. Scrape the fat from the skin and slice 
the skin into 1/ 4-inch strips. T rim the fat from the 
belly and cut the belly into 1/2-inch chunks.
2. In a stockpot, combine the cooked and sliced pork 
skin and belly, pork bones, chicken feet, scallions, 
ginger, rice wine, and 8 cups of cold water to cover. 
Bring to a boil over high heat, skimming off the foam 
occasionally. Boil for 5 minutes, then reduce the heat 
to medium and simmer for about 1 hour to  1 hour 
30 minutes, or until the stock reduces to 2 cups. 
Season with salt.
3. Strain the stock into a 9-by-13-inch baking dish, dis-
carding the solids. Let cool on the counter for 1 hour, 
then transfer to the refrigerator to chill completely, 
preferably overnight. The stock will become jelly 
when chilled. Keep covered until ready to use.
4. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, combine 
the ground pork, scallions, garlic, sesame oil, soy 
sauce, rice wine, sugar, and white pepper. Gently 
stir the ingredients in one direction until thor -
oughly combined.53 Steamed DumplingsFor the  
duMPlings
1 batch Basic Dump-
ling Dough (page 20)
6 to 8 broad Napa 
cabbage leaves
Soy-Vinegar  
Dipping Sauce (page 
98), for serving
Make it easier:  
Tackle this recipe in 
stages. The soup can 
keep for up to 1 week 
in the refrigerator, or 
up to 3 months in the 
freezer. You can also 
prepare the filling up 
to 2 days ahead.5. Cut the jellied stock into 1/8-inch cubes. Scoop out one-third 
of the cubes into a bowl and set aside. Mix the remaining 
cubes into the filling. Cover and refrigerate while you roll the 
dough, or up to 2 days.
6. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut the 
dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each piece into a 
4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around the edges. Keep 
covered.
7. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 1 tablespoon 
of filling in the center of each and use a spoon to flatten it 
slightly. Place 1 reserved cube of stock jelly on top of the 
filling.
8. Fold the dumplings using the Soup Dumpling Fold (see page 
30). Repeat with the remaining wrappers, filling, and stock.
9. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, bring 
3 cups water to a boil. Line the bottom of two steamer 
baskets with the cabbage leaves and steam for 2 minutes, or 
until the cabbage is softened.
10. Arrange 12 dumplings in each basket, making sure they are 
not touching. Stack the baskets over the pot and reduce 
the heat to medium to keep a simmer. Steam for 10 to 
12 minutes, or until the dumpling skins look dry on the sur -
face and slightly droopy.
11. Remove from the heat and serve the dumplings directly from 
the baskets with the dipping sauce on the side.  Be careful 
not to break the dumplings, or the soup will run out before 
you can enjoy it! Use caution when eating—the soup inside 
is boiling hot, so serve each dumpling in a large spoon and 
gently blow on it to cool before eating.54
 Dumplings for BeginnersCHAR SIU BAO
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 20 minutes
Char siu is a Cantonese-style barbecue pork that you can buy ready-made from the hot 
foods counters at Asian markets. These fluffy pork buns are a favorite in my family. 
1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
1 tablespoon cornstarch dis-
solved in 1 tablespoon water
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
12 ounces char siu, cut into 
1/ 4-inch dice
1 teaspoon minced scallion, 
white and green parts 
1 garlic clove, minced
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
Mix it uP: Don’t leave this 
bao just for the barbecue 
pork! Try any of the vegetable 
fillings, like the one used in 
the Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza (page 71), for a change.1. Make the filling: In a small saucepan over medium 
heat, stir together 1/ 4 cup of water, the sugar, hoisin, 
oyster sauce, cornstarch mixture, soy sauce, and rice 
wine. Simmer for 4 to 5 minutes, or until thickened.
2. Remove from the heat and stir in the char siu, 
scallion, and garlic until well mixed. Let cool to room 
temperature, then refrigerate until the dough is 
rolled, or for up to 2 days.
3. Prepare the dough and shape the baos: Cut the 
dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Keep the 
dough pieces covered under plastic wrap. Cut parch-
ment paper into 24 (2-inch) squares.
4. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 4-inch circle. Place the circle flat 
on one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of fill-
ing into the center. Gather the edges of the dough 
together and pinch tightly at the top. Place the bao, 
pinched-side up, on a parchment square, then place 
it into a stainless-steel steaming basket. Repeat with 
the remaining dough and filling, arranging the baos 
2 inches apart in the steamer baskets.
5. Cook and serve: Stack the baskets, covering the 
top tier loosely with plastic wrap. Let rise at room 
temperature for 30 minutes.
6. In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, bring 3 cups 
water to a boil. Stack the baskets over the pot and 
steam the baos over high heat for 12 to 15 minutes, 
replenishing the pot with water, as needed. 55
 Steamed DumplingsHAR GOW
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
These iconic steamed dumplings steal the show on any dim sum cart. Their translucent 
wrappers give us a peek into the mouthwatering, blush-colored shrimp filling inside. Serve 
these directly from the baskets with the dipping sauce on the side.
12 ounces shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and 
roughly chopped
1/ 4 cup minced 
bamboo shoots
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon soy sauce
1 batch Crystal Dumpling 
Dough (page 21)
Nonstick cooking spray
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98), for serving
Cooking tiP: This dump-
ling dough is very pliable, so 
you can use a tortilla press to 
create wrappers with a consis-
tent thickness and size.1. Make the filling: Set 1/2 cup of shrimp aside. In a 
food processor, combine the remaining shrimp, 
bamboo shoots, cornstarch, ginger, rice wine, 
sesame oil, and soy sauce. Pulse to form a coarse 
paste. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and 
stir in the reserved shrimp. Cover the bowl and 
refrigerate for 30 minutes, or up to 1 day.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.
6. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets 
with cooking spray. Arrange the dumplings in the 
baskets with at least 1 inch of space around them.
7. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 9 minutes, or until the filling 
turns pink and the wrappers are translucent.56
 Dumplings for BeginnersPORK AND BOK CHOY JIAOZI
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
The quintessential steamed pork dumplings, these jiaozi have a juicy filling with bits of 
salted bok choy for a crunchy texture.
2 baby bok choy bulbs, 
roughly chopped
2 teaspoons kosher salt
12 ounces ground pork
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 tablespoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 teaspoon cornstarch
Pinch ground white pepper
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
Nonstick cooking spray
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98) or XO Sauce 
(page 100), for serving
Mix it uP: This filling can be 
used for wontons, potstickers, 
and even shengjian bao. It’s 
the universal filling!1. Make the filling: Wilt the bok choy with the salt for 
5 to 10 minutes. Squeeze out the extra moisture.
2. T ransfer to a bowl and add the ground pork, scal-
lions, rice wine, sesame oil, cornstarch, and white 
pepper. Mix thoroughly to combine. Cover and refrig -
erate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each 
piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around 
the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.
7. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets 
with cooking spray. Arrange the dumplings in the 
steamer baskets without letting them touch.
8. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the 
water to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep 
a simmer. Steam for 8 to 9 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
9. Remove the baskets from the pot and serve the 
dumplings directly from the baskets with the dipping 
sauce on the side.57 Steamed DumplingsCHICKEN MOMOS WITH TOMATO 
SESAME CHUTNEY
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 20 minutes
These flavorful dumplings are inspired by Tibetan momos, which are traditionally served 
with a deliciously spicy tomato sauce. To morph this into a hearty soup, stir about 3 cups 
hot chicken stock into the sauce.
For the Chutney
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
3 garlic cloves, smashed
1-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and chopped
1 tablespoon curry powder
1 (15-ounce) can crushed 
fire-roasted tomatoes
Pinch kosher salt
1 cup chopped fresh cilantro 
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
For the ChiCken  
MoMos
1 cup shredded 
Napa cabbage
11/2 teaspoons kosher 
salt, divided
12 ounces ground chicken
1 shallot, roughly chopped1. Make the chutney: In a saucepan over medium heat, 
melt the butter. Add the garlic, ginger, and curry 
powder and sauté for 25 to 30 seconds. Stir in the 
tomatoes and simmer for 15 minutes.
2. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly. Season 
with salt, then blend the chutney using an immersion 
blender, or transfer to a standard blender and blend 
until smooth. Stir in the cilantro, sesame oil, and 
lemon juice. Set aside.
3. Make the filling: In a wire-mesh strainer, toss the 
cabbage with 1 teaspoon of salt and let sit over a 
bowl for 10 minutes, or until the cabbage has wilted. 
Squeeze out the excess moisture from the cabbage 
(no need to rinse it first).
4. In a food processor, combine the cabbage, ground 
chicken, shallot, garlic, ginger, curry powder, and 
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt. Pulse to form a 
smooth paste.
5. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrapper with corn-
starch slurry.
6. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
continues ⊲58 Dumplings for BeginnersCHICKEN MOMOS WITH T OMATO SESAME CHUTNEY  continued
3 garlic 
cloves, smashed
1/2-inch piece fresh 
ginger, peeled and 
coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon 
curry powder
24 store-bought 
dumpling wrappers
Cornstarch slurry 
(see page 26)
Nonstick cook -
ing spray
Cooking tiP: A 
delicious substitute 
for the chicken is 
ground turkey.7. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, bring 
3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to medium to keep 
a simmer.
8. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets with cook -
ing spray. Arrange the dumplings in the steamer baskets, 
with at least 1 inch of space around them.
9. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water to a boil. 
Reduce the heat to medium to keep a simmer. Steam for 
10 to 12 minutes, adding more water, as needed.
10. Remove the baskets from the heat and let rest for 2 minutes. 
Divide the tomato chutney among shallow bowls and equally 
distribute the dumplings.59 Steamed DumplingsPANEER MOMO JHOL IN SPICY TOMATO SOUP
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 15 minutes
Popular in Nepal, jhol momos are traditionally made with meat fillings and served with a 
tomato-based chutney or soup.
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1 medium onion, 
grated, divided
4 garlic cloves, minced
1-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced, divided
Pinch kosher salt
1 tablespoon curry powder
3 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder, divided
3 cups vegetable stock
1 (15-ounce) can fire-roasted 
crushed tomatoes
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
11/2 cups grated paneer 
or queso fresco (about 
6 ounces)
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
Nonstick cooking spray
Make it easier: Save some 
time by using store-bought 
wonton wrappers.1. Make the soup: In a large saucepan over 
medium-high heat, melt the butter. Add half the 
onion, the garlic, and half the ginger. Sauté for 
2 minutes, or until the onion is soft and translucent. 
Season with salt, curry powder, and 2 teaspoons of 
five-spice powder.
2. In a blender, combine the cooked vegetables, veg -
etable stock, and tomatoes. Blend until smooth. 
T ransfer the mixture to the saucepan and simmer 
for 20 minutes. Keep warm while you prepare 
the dumplings.
3. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, combine the 
spinach, paneer, remaining onion, remaining ginger, 
and the remaining 1 teaspoon of five-spice powder 
and stir until combined.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each 
piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around 
the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
6. Fold the dumplings using the Soup Dumpling Fold 
(see page 30).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer. 
 VEGETARIAN
continues ⊲60 Dumplings for BeginnersPANEER MOMO JHOL  IN SPICY  TOMATO S OUP  continued
8. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets with 
cooking spray. Place the dumplings in the steamer 
baskets, careful not to crowd them.
9. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 10 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
10. Remove from heat and let rest for 2 minutes 
before serving.61 Steamed DumplingsEGGPLANT AND WATER 
CHESTNUT HALF-MOONS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 20 minutes
The humble eggplant can transform into a fantastic dumpling filling with the help of the 
umami-rich black bean sauce. This recipe calls for water chestnuts for some crunch, but you 
can use bamboo shoots or celery instead.
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 medium eggplant, cut into 
1/ 4-inch cubes
Pinch kosher salt
1/2 medium onion, 
finely chopped
1 (4-ounce) can water 
chestnuts, drained and 
roughly chopped
1/ 4 cup black bean sauce
2 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
Nonstick cooking spray
Mix it uP: Make a spicier 
dumpling by adding 2 teaspoons 
Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99) to 
the filling.1. Make the filling: In a skillet over medium-high heat, 
heat the vegetable oil. Swirl to coat the skillet and 
add the eggplant. Sauté for 1 minute, then add the 
salt and onion. Cook for 5 to 7 minutes, or until the 
eggplant becomes golden.
2. Stir in the water chestnuts and black bean sauce. 
Remove from the heat and let cool. Stir in the scal-
lions and transfer the filling to a medium bowl to cool.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 pieces (see page 24). Roll each 
piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick around 
the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 4 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.
7. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets 
with cooking spray. Arrange the dumplings in the 
steamer baskets, leaving at least 1 inch of space 
between each. 
  VEGAN
continues ⊲62 Dumplings for BeginnersEGGPLANT  AND W ATER CHESTNUT  HALF -MOONS  continued
8. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 10 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
9. Remove the baskets from the wok and serve the 
dumplings directly from the baskets.63 Steamed DumplingsCRYSTAL CHIVE DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
These are traditionally made with shrimp filling, but here’s a vegan-friendly version. If you 
can’t find Chinese garlic chives, use regular chives or scallions.
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
4 ounces fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed and 
roughly chopped
Pinch kosher salt
1 (10-ounce) package 
frozen spinach, defrosted, 
squeezed, and chopped
1/2 bunch fresh Chinese garlic 
chives, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 batch Crystal Dumpling 
Dough (page 21), at room 
temperature
Nonstick cooking spray
Mix it uP: During early spring, 
look for fresh pea shoots at 
Asian markets. They make a 
tasty alternative to the chives in 
this filling.1. Make the filling: In a skillet over medium-high heat, 
heat the vegetable oil. Swirl to coat the skillet and 
add the mushrooms. Sauté for 1 minute, then add 
the salt, spinach, chives, and garlic. Cook for about 
2 minutes until the spinach and chives are heated 
through. Stir in the soy sauce and sesame oil and 
transfer the filling to a medium bowl to cool.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Basic Half-Moon Fold 
(see page 26).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer. Lightly coat the bottoms 
of two steamer baskets with cooking spray. Place the 
dumplings in the steamer baskets, leaving at least 
1 inch of space between each.
6. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a 
simmer. Steam for 8 to 10 minutes, adding more 
water, as needed.
7. Remove the baskets from the heat and serve the 
dumplings directly from the baskets. 
  VEGAN64
 Dumplings for BeginnersCRYSTAL WOOD EAR AND BAMBOO 
SHOOT DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 40 minutes Cook tiMe 20 minutes
Wood ear mushrooms lend chewiness to this filling, and the bamboo shoots add a nice 
crunch against the soft crystal dumpling skins. This uses a vegetarian stir-fry sauce made of 
shiitake mushrooms instead of the traditional oyster sauce. 
8 ounces baked tofu
1 carrot, halved
1 (4-ounce) can sliced 
bamboo shoots, drained
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 cup roughly chopped 
wood ear mushrooms or 
any other wild mushroom
2 teaspoons grated 
peeled fresh ginger
2 tablespoons vegetarian 
stir-fry sauce
Pinch ground white pepper
1 batch Crystal Dumpling 
Dough (page 21)
Nonstick cooking spray
Mix it uP: This filling is 
excellent inside a potsticker or 
wonton, too.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, combine the 
tofu, carrot, and bamboo shoots. Pulse until finely 
chopped.
2. In a skillet over medium-high heat, heat the vege-
table oil. Swirl to coat the skillet and add the tofu 
mixture, mushrooms, and ginger. Sauté for 3 to 
4 minutes to cook off any moisture. Stir in the stir-fry 
sauce and white pepper and transfer the filling to a 
medium bowl to cool.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a 10-inch-wide stockpot or wok, 
bring 3 cups water to a boil.  Reduce the heat to 
medium to keep a simmer.  
  VEGAN65
 Steamed Dumplings7. Lightly coat the bottoms of two steamer baskets with 
cooking spray. Place the dumplings in the steamer bas-
kets, being careful not to crowd them.
8. Stack the baskets over the pot and return the water to a 
boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a simmer. Steam 
for 8 to 10 minutes, adding more water as, needed.
9. Remove the baskets from heat and serve the dumplings 
directly from the baskets.66
 Dumplings for BeginnersRED BEAN PASTE BAOS
Makes 24 baos PreP  tiMe 30 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Sweetened red bean paste is a common ingredient in many Chinese desserts. The red adzuki 
beans are cooked in a sugar syrup, then mashed into a paste. To enhance the unique flavor 
of the beans, this recipe calls for a little orange zest, but this is optional.
2 (7-ounce) cans sweet red 
bean paste
Grated zest of 
1 orange (optional)
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
Mix it uP: After steaming, 
pan-fry the bottoms of the baos 
using the potsticker cook-
ing method (see page 70) to 
create a crispy-bottomed bao.1. Make the filling: In a small bowl, stir together 
the bean paste and orange zest (if using) until 
thoroughly combined. Cut 24 (2-inch) squares of 
parchment paper and set aside.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Keep 
the dough pieces covered under plastic wrap.
3. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 3-inch circle. Place the circle flat 
on one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of fill-
ing into the center. Gather the edges of the dough 
together and pinch tightly at the top. Place the bao, 
pinched-side up, on a parchment square, then place 
it into a stainless-steel steaming basket. Repeat 
with the remaining dough and filling, arranging the 
baos 2 inches apart in the steamer baskets, or about 
6 baos per steamer basket.
4. Cook and serve: Stack the baskets, covering the 
top tier loosely with plastic wrap. Let the baos rise at 
room temperature for 30 minutes.
5. In a stockpot, bring 3 cups water to a boil. Stack 
two steamer baskets over the stockpot and steam 
for 12 minutes over high heat, adding more water, 
as needed.  Repeat with the remaining baos, adding 
more water to the pot, as needed. T ransfer the baos 
to a warm platter. 
  VEGANClassic Pork Potstickers, page 70
695
PAN-FRIED AND FRIED 
DUMPLINGS
These dumplings are popular for their crispy, crunchy texture. 
Pan-fried dumplings are first steamed, then lightly fried with a small 
amount of oil to create a golden-brown crust. Deep-fried dumplings 
don’t require steaming and yield extra crispy wrappers with a tender 
filling inside. Here, you’ll find classics like potstickers and fried 
wontons, as well as some creative takes on traditional flavors.
Classic Pork Potstickers  70
Cabbage and Mushroom Gyoza  71
Kimchi Mandu  72
Pan-Fried Chicken and Green Bean 
Momos  74
Shengjian Bao  
(Pan-Fried Pork Buns)  75
Deep-Fried T urkey Wontons  77Crab Rangoons  78
Bok Choy and Salted Mustard 
Greens Potstickers  79
Pork and Chicken Mandu  81
T urkey and Napa  
Cabbage Potstickers  82
Curried Potato Dumplings  84
Five-Spice Chicken Baos  86
70
 Dumplings for BeginnersCLASSIC PORK POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 30 minutes
My mom always kept a bag of homemade potstickers in the freezer. My brother would cook 
up a batch for an after-school snack. It was the most satisfying treat ever.
2 cups finely shredded 
Napa cabbage
1 tablespoon kosher salt
2/3 pound ground pork
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: Try this method 
with the filling from the Spicy 
Shrimp Dumplings (page 47) 
and let me know what you think!1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with the salt and 
let sit for 30 minutes, or until the cabbage has wilted. 
Rinse, then squeeze out as much water as possible.
2. In a medium bowl, toss together the cabbage, ground 
pork, ginger, soy sauce, sesame oil, and rice wine 
until combined. Refrigerate while you roll the dough, 
or up to 2 hours.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each wrapper.
5. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil. When the oil is almost smoking, arrange half the 
potstickers in the skillet without letting them touch. 
Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes. 
7. Carefully pour 2/3 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
8. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. Cook 
for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has evapo-
rated and the potsticker bottoms are browned and 
crisp.  Repeat with the remaining dumplings and oil.71
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsCABBAGE AND MUSHROOM GYOZA
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Japanese gyoza are usually made with thinner wrappers than Chinese potstickers. They are 
less chewy, and the bottoms are crispier. Make another batch to freeze and have on hand 
whenever the craving strikes!
2 cups finely shredded 
green cabbage
1 tablespoon kosher salt
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
8 large fresh shiitake 
mushrooms, stemmed and 
finely chopped
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 tablespoon soy sauce 
or tamari
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
24 store-bought gyoza 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: Pork and cabbage 
is a classic gyoza filling.1. Make the filling: Wilt the cabbage with the salt and 
let sit for 30 minutes. Rinse, then squeeze out as 
much water as possible.
2. In a food processor, pulse the dried shiitake mushrooms 
until nearly powdered. Add the fresh mushrooms, cab-
bage, ginger, soy sauce, and rice wine and pulse until 
thoroughly combined. Cover and set aside.
3. Fold the dumplings: Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting 
board and place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center 
of each. Moisten the outer edges of the wrapper with 
cornstarch slurry.
4. Fold using the Pleated Crescent Fold (see page 27). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, arrange half the gyoza in the skillet without 
letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce 
the heat if the gyoza are browning too quickly.
6. Carefully pour 2/3 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Remove the lid and increase the heat to 
medium-high. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all 
the water has evaporated and the gyoza bottoms 
are browned and crisp.  Repeat with the remain-
ing dumplings. 
  VEGAN72
 Dumplings for BeginnersKIMCHI MANDU
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Kimchi is briny, crunchy, and so delicious. If you’re like me, you’ve probably got a jar in the 
back of your refrigerator, and this dumpling is a great way to use it up. And an accompani -
ment to these dumplings? More kimchi, of course!
2 cups mung bean sprouts
1 tablespoon kosher salt
11/2 cups kimchi
8 ounces firm tofu, diced
1 small shallot, 
roughly chopped
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, 
roughly chopped
1 large egg
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: These dumplings 
work well steamed or in a 
soup, like Hot and Sour Soup 
(page 93).1. Make the filling: In a saucepan, bring 4 cups water 
to a boil. Add the bean sprouts and salt. Return the 
water to a boil, drain, and rinse the sprouts under 
cold water. Set aside to drain well.
2. In a food processor, combine the kimchi, tofu, 
shallot, scallions, and garlic and pulse until finely 
chopped. Squeeze out excess water from the sprouts 
and add them to the processor. Add the egg and 
sesame oil and pulse to combine.
3. T ransfer the mixture to a medium bowl and refriger -
ate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
4. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
6. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegeta-
ble oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is 
almost smoking, arrange half the dumplings in the 
skillet without letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 
3 minutes. Reduce the heat if browning too quickly. 
 VEGETARIAN73
 Pan-Fried and Fried Dumplings8. Carefully pour 1/2 cup water into the skillet and cover the 
pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the heat to 
low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
9. Remove the lid and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the mandu bottoms are browned and 
crisp.  Repeat with the remaining dumplings and oil.74
 Dumplings for BeginnersPAN-FRIED CHICKEN AND 
GREEN BEAN MOMOS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
The chewy-crunchy texture of this dumpling skin works well with its chicken filling studded 
with crunchy bits of green bean. Momos and dumplings are virtually the same thing—
steamed dumplings with a flour-based wrapper.
2/3 pound ground chicken 
(dark meat preferred)
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
1 cup green beans, cut into 
1/ 4-inch pieces
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: For a deeper 
umami flavor, use black 
bean sauce instead of oyster 
sauce. For a sweeter flavor, try 
hoisin sauce.1. Make the filling: In a medium bowl, stir together the 
ground chicken, cornstarch, oyster sauce, sesame 
oil, and ginger until smooth. Fold in the green beans, 
cover the bowl, and refrigerate while you roll the 
dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
4. Fold the dumplings using the Soup Dumpling Fold 
(see page 30).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil and swirl to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, pan-fry half the dumplings in the skillet for 
2 to 3 minutes. 
6. Carefully pour 1/ 4 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water comes to a boil, reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the momo bottoms are browned and 
crisp.  Repeat with the remaining batch.75
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsSHENGJIAN BAO (PAN-FRIED PORK BUNS)
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Traditionally served as a breakfast item, these classic Shanghainese-style pork buns are 
fluffy on the outside and filled with savory pork on the inside. They are a favorite of our 
family for weekend brunch.
2/3 pound ground pork
2 scallions, white and green 
parts, minced
1 tablespoon light soy sauce
1 teaspoon grated peeled 
fresh ginger
1 teaspoon Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 teaspoon sesame oil
Pinch Chinese 
five-spice powder
1/3 cup chicken stock
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 tablespoon sesame 
seeds, toasted
Make it easier: Mix the 
filling in a stand mixer with a 
paddle attachment on medium 
speed for 1 minute.1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the 
ground pork, scallions, soy sauce, ginger, rice wine, 
sesame oil, and five-spice powder until combined 
and smooth.
2. Add the chicken stock, 2 tablespoons at a time, and 
stir until mixed in completely. Cover and refrigerator 
while you roll the dough, or up to 1 day.
3. Prepare the dough and shape the baos: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). 
Keep covered.
4. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 
5. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 4-inch circle. Place the circle flat on 
one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of filling into 
the center. Gather the edges of the dough together 
and pinch tightly at the top to seal the edges. Place 
the bao, pinched-side up, on the prepared baking 
sheet, leaving about 2 inches between each bao. 
Repeat with the remaining dough and filling.
6. Loosely cover the buns and let rise for 20 to 
30 minutes, or until they feel puffy.
continues ⊲76 Dumplings for BeginnersSHENGJIAN B AO (P AN-FRIED PORK  BUNS)  continued
7. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil until shimmering. Arrange half the buns in the 
pan, leaving 1/2 inch of space between each bun. 
Pan-fry for 30 seconds, or until the bun bottoms are 
pale-golden brown.
8. Pour 1/ 4 cup water into the skillet and cover the pan 
immediately. Cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the 
water evaporates completely.
9. T urn off the heat and leave the lid on for 1 minute, or 
until the sizzling stops.  The baos should have bot -
toms that are golden brown and crispy.  T ransfer to a 
warm plate and repeat with the remaining buns.
10. Sprinkle with sesame seeds to serve.77
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsDEEP-FRIED TURKEY WONTONS
Makes 24 wontons PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
I love using ground turkey for deep-fried wontons instead of pork when I want a lighter fill -
ing. Using dried mushrooms keeps the filling from becoming too wet, which would explode 
in the hot oil.
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
8 ounces ground turkey 
(dark meat preferred)
2 tablespoons minced 
peeled fresh ginger
1 tablespoon mushroom soy 
sauce or light soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Pinch ground white pepper
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil
Generous pinch kosher salt
Cooking tiP: I prefer using 
ground turkey for deep-fried 
wontons instead of pork 
because it’s leaner, which 
makes a dumpling that’s not 
so heavy; however, use ground 
dark meat turkey, so the filling 
doesn’t turn out dry.1. Make the filling: In a food processor, process the 
mushrooms until finely ground. Add the ground 
turkey, ginger, soy sauce, sesame oil, rice wine, 
and white pepper. Pulse to combine, then process 
to form a smooth paste.  T ransfer the filling to a 
medium bowl.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and 
place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrappers with corn-
starch slurry.
3. Fold the dumplings using the Classic Wonton Fold 
(see page 28). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
4. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside.
5. Working in batches of 4 to 6 wontons, gently 
lower the wontons into the hot oil. Use a skimmer 
to flip the wontons or to keep them submerged 
in the hot oil. Fry for 5 to 6 minutes, or until 
browned and crispy.
6. Using a skimmer, transfer the wontons from the 
hot oil to the prepared wire rack. Sprinkle with salt 
while still hot.78
 Dumplings for BeginnersCRAB RANGOONS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
“Have you ever had these before? They are little bites of heaven!” is how my friend Shannon 
introduced me to these delicious deep-fried crab puffs. Crab rangoons were first developed  
in San Francisco as an appetizer; but really, any time is a good time for these crispy 
delights!
4 ounces fresh crabmeat, 
cartilage removed, picked 
through, and squeezed of 
extra moisture 
8 ounces cream cheese, at 
room temperature
1 scallion, white and green 
parts, minced
1 teaspoon Worcester -
shire sauce 
1/ 4 teaspoon garlic powder
Pinch kosher salt, plus 
more for seasoning
Pinch ground white pepper
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil
Cooking tiP: Canned crab 
or imitation crab sticks (also 
called surimi or seafood 
cocktail sticks) also work well 
here and would be cheaper 
than crab.1. Make the filling: Set aside 2 tablespoons of crab-
meat. In a medium bowl, combine the remaining 
crab, cream cheese, scallion, Worcestershire sauce, 
garlic powder, salt, and white pepper. Mix thoroughly 
until smooth and fold in the reserved crab.
2. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. 
Moisten the outer edges of the wrapper with corn-
starch slurry.
4. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold (see  
page 29). Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside.
6. Working in batches of 4 to 6 dumplings at a time, 
gently lower the dumplings into the hot oil. Use a 
skimmer to flip the rangoons or to keep them sub-
merged in the hot oil. Fry for 4 to 5 minutes, or until 
browned and crispy.
7. Using a skimmer, transfer the rangoons from the 
hot oil to the prepared rack. Sprinkle with salt 
while still hot.79
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsBOK CHOY AND SALTED MUSTARD 
GREENS POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 45 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
This light and flavorful dumpling uses salted mustard greens for a briny crunch. Look for 
them in prepared pouches near the fresh dumpling wrappers at Asian markets.
3 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
4 ounces baby bok choy, 
roughly chopped
1 small onion, grated
1 small carrot, grated
2 teaspoons grated 
peeled fresh ginger
Pinch kosher salt
1/2 cup salted mus-
tard greens, drained 
and chopped
1 tablespoon vegetarian 
stir-fry sauce 
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: This bright-green 
filling is excellent with Crystal 
Dumpling Dough (page 21) 
wrappers, too! Pan-fry them the 
same way for a chewy-crispy 
texture with beautiful vegeta-
bles showing through.1. Make the filling: In a large skillet over medium-high 
heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil, swirling to 
coat the skillet. When the oil just begins to smoke, 
add the bok choy, onion, carrot, and ginger. Season 
with salt and sauté for 7 to 10 minutes until the vege-
tables cook down. 
2. Add the mustard greens, stir-fry sauce, and sesame 
oil and sprinkle in the cornstarch. Stir to combine.  
Remove from the heat and let cool while you roll  
the dough.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil, swirling to coat the skillet. When the oil is almost 
smoking, arrange half the potstickers in the skillet 
as close to one another as possible without letting 
them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or until 
golden brown.
continues ⊲ 
  VEGAN80 Dumplings for BeginnersBOK CHOY  AND S ALTED MUSTARD GREENS POTSTICKERS  continued
7. Carefully pour 1/2 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water boils, reduce the heat to low 
and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
8. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the bottoms of the potstickers are 
browned.  Repeat with the remaining potstickers and 
oil. Serve browned-side up.81
 Pan-Fried and Fried DumplingsPORK AND CHICKEN MANDU
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Mandu are prepared for Lunar New Year celebrations throughout Korea. They can be 
boiled, steamed, or pan-fried. This recipe calls for blended pork and chicken for the filling, 
but feel free to experiment with any combinations you like.
1/3 pound ground pork
1/3 pound ground chicken
Generous pinch kosher salt
1/ 4 head green cabbage,  
grated
1 cup roughly chopped 
mung bean sprouts
1 small onion, grated
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon sesame oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce 
(page 98), for serving
Mix it uP: Turn your gun 
mandu (pan-fried dumplings) 
into jjin mandu (steamed 
dumplings) by following 
the cooking directions for 
other steamed dumplings in 
chapter 4.1. Make the filling: In a large bowl, stir together the 
ground pork, ground chicken, and salt. Mix thor -
oughly until the proteins are combined into a smooth 
paste. Add the cabbage, bean sprouts, onion, soy 
sauce, sesame oil, and garlic and continue to mix the 
ingredients until combined. Cover and refrigerate 
while you roll the dough, or up to 2 days.
2. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
3. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
4. Fold using the Classic Wonton Fold (see page 28). 
Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.
5. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable 
oil. When the oil is almost smoking, arrange half the 
dumplings in the skillet. Pan-fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until golden brown.
6. Carefully pour 1/2 cup water into the skillet and cover 
the pan. Once the water boils, reduce the heat to low 
and simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
7. Uncover and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until all the water has 
evaporated and the bottoms are browned.  Repeat 
with the remaining dumplings. Serve, browned-side 
up, with the dipping sauce on the side.82
 Dumplings for BeginnersTURKEY AND NAPA CABBAGE POTSTICKERS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 1 hour 5 minutes Cook tiMe 30 minutes
A few years ago, I had the honor of creating recipes for a dear friend’s dumpling party 
and gave a dumpling-making lesson to his friends and family. This recipe is inspired by 
that party.
1/ 4 head Napa cabbage, 
finely shredded
1 tablespoon kosher salt
8 ounces ground turkey
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
1 tablespoon hoisin sauce
2 teaspoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon sesame oil
1 batch Basic Dumpling 
Dough (see page 20)
2 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
Mix it uP: This filling makes 
an excellent wonton filling 
for either Traditional Soup 
Wontons (see page 37) or 
Deep-fried Turkey Wontons 
(see page 77).1. Make the filling: In a wire-mesh strainer set over a 
bowl, toss the cabbage with the salt and let sit for 
30 minutes, or until the cabbage has wilted. Rinse, 
then squeeze out as much water as possible.
2. In a food processor, pulse the ground turkey and 
ginger until well mixed. Add the hoisin, rice wine, 
cornstarch, and sesame oil and pulse to form a 
smooth paste. Add the cabbage and pulse to com-
bine. T ransfer the filling to a medium bowl, cover, and 
refrigerate while you roll the dough, or up to 2 hours.
3. Roll out the wrappers and fold the dumplings: Cut 
the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). Roll 
each piece into a 4-inch circle about 1/16 inch thick 
around the edges. Keep covered.
4. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each.
5. Fold the dumplings using the Pleated Crescent Fold 
(see page 27).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
6. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegeta-
ble oil, swirling to coat the skillet. When the oil is 
almost smoking, arrange half the potstickers in the 
skillet without letting them touch. Pan-fry for 2 to 
3 minutes, or until golden brown.83
 Pan-Fried and Fried Dumplings7. Carefully pour 2/3 cup water into the skillet and cover the 
pan. Once the water boils, reduce the heat to low and 
simmer for 6 to 7 minutes.
8. Remove the lid and increase the heat to medium-high. 
Cook the potstickers for 2 to 3 minutes, or until browned 
and crisp.  Repeat with the remaining dumplings and oil.84
 Dumplings for BeginnersCURRIED POTATO DUMPLINGS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 50 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
These fried potato dumplings are similar to Indian samosas. The combination of potatoes 
and curry makes this a satisfying appetizer or snack.
1 medium russet potato, 
peeled and cut into 
1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons kosher 
salt, divided
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter or coconut oil
1 small shallot, minced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
1 tablespoon curry powder
1/2 cup frozen peas, thawed
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilantro
2 teaspoons freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
24 store-bought wonton 
wrappers
Cornstarch slurry (see 
page 26)
3 cups canola oil 
Make it easier: Leftover 
mashed potatoes make this 
filling richer and creamier!1. Make the filling: In a large saucepan, combine the 
potatoes, 1 tablespoon of salt, and enough water to 
cover. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer 
the potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes, or until soft. 
Reserve 1 cup of cooking water and drain the pota-
toes. Set the potatoes aside to dry for 5 minutes.
2. Place the saucepan over medium-high heat and add 
the butter to melt. Add the shallot, garlic, and ginger 
and sauté for about 30 seconds until fragrant. Stir 
in the curry powder and cook for 20 seconds more, 
stirring. Add the potatoes and toss to coat with the 
curry butter.
3. T urn off the heat and mash the potatoes until well 
combined. Season with 1 teaspoon of salt. The 
mixture should be lumpy but thoroughly combined. 
Fold in the peas, cilantro, and lemon juice. Set 
aside to cool.
4. Fold the dumplings: While working, keep the wrap-
pers covered.
5. Lay 6 wrappers on a cutting board and place 
1 tablespoon of filling in the center of each. Moisten 
the edges of the wrapper with cornstarch slurry.
6. Fold the dumplings using the Parcel Fold  
(see page 29).  Repeat with the remaining wrappers 
and filling.
7. Cook and serve: In a wok or Dutch oven over 
medium-high heat, heat the canola oil to 375ºF. Set a 
wire rack over a sheet pan and set aside. 
 VEGETARIAN85
 Pan-Fried and Fried Dumplings8. Working in batches of 4 to 6 dumplings, gently lower 
the dumplings into the hot oil. Use a skimmer to flip the 
dumplings or to keep them submerged in the hot oil. Fry 
for 4 to 5 minutes, or until browned and crispy.
9. Using a skimmer, transfer the dumplings from the hot 
oil to the prepared rack. Sprinkle with the remaining 
2 teaspoons of salt and serve hot.86
 Dumplings for BeginnersFIVE-SPICE CHICKEN BAOS
Makes 24 dumplings PreP  tiMe 35 minutes, plus 30 minutes to proof  
Cook tiMe 30 minutes
Five-spice powder is a classic blend of star anise, cinnamon, cloves, fennel seeds, and Sich -
uan peppercorns that makes these baos irresistible. When cooking the cauliflower for these 
baos, get it nice and charred to develop maximum flavor. You can also use green beans or 
asparagus, if you prefer.
3 tablespoons vegetable 
oil, divided
1 cup roughly chopped cau-
liflower florets
2 garlic cloves, minced
1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
2 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder
Pinch kosher salt
Ground white pepper
2 cups shredded 
cooked chicken
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1 batch Bao Dough 
(page 22)
Mix it uP: If you’re heading 
to the Asian market, pick up 
some roast duck and use that 
instead of chicken in this bao. 
It’s so tasty!1. Make the filling: In a large skillet over medium-high 
heat, add 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil, swirling to 
coat the skillet. When the oil begins to smoke, add 
the cauliflower and sear for 2 to 3 minutes, or until 
the cauliflower begins to char. Add the garlic and 
ginger and sauté for about 15 seconds until fragrant. 
Add the five-spice powder and season with salt and 
white pepper to taste.
2. Remove from the heat and stir in the chicken, scal-
lions, and sesame oil. T ransfer to a large bowl and set 
aside to cool.
3. Prepare the dough and shape the baos: Line a 
sheet pan with parchment paper and set aside.
4. Cut the dough into 24 equal pieces (see page 24). 
Keep the dough pieces covered under plastic wrap.
5. Use your fingertips to flatten and stretch one piece 
of dough into a 4-inch circle. Place the circle flat 
on one palm. Spoon 1 heaping tablespoon of fill-
ing into the center. Gather the edges of the dough 
together and pinch tightly at the top. Place the bao, 
pinched-side up, on the prepared sheet pan, leaving 
about 2 inches between each bao. Repeat with the 
remaining dough and filling.
6. Loosely cover the buns and let rise for 20 to 
30 minutes, or until they feel puffy.87
 Pan-Fried and Fried Dumplings7. Cook and serve: In a large nonstick skillet over 
medium-high heat, heat 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil  
until shimmering. Arrange half the buns in the skillet, 
leaving ½ inch of space between each bun. Pan-fry for 
30 seconds, or until the bun bottoms are golden brown.
8. Pour 1/ 4 cup water into the skillet and cover the pan. Cook 
for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the water evaporates com-
pletely. T urn off the heat and leave the lid on for 1 minute, 
or until the sizzling stops.  The baos should have bottoms 
that are golden brown and crispy.  T ransfer to a warm plate 
and repeat the process with the remaining buns and oil.PHOTOSmashed Cucumber Salad, page 94
89
PHOTO6
SOUPS, SIDE SNACKS, 
AND DIPPING SAUCES
Dumplings are infinitely better when paired with a flavorful dipping 
sauce. You can make a meal from a variety of dumplings by adding a 
soup, side dish, or plate of noodles. This chapter features an assort-
ment of soups to which you can add any number of dumplings for 
a comforting bowl of dumpling soup. You’ll also find classic condi-
ments such as Chili Crisp Sauce (page 99) and its savory cousin, XO 
Sauce (page 100).
Wonton Soup Broth  90
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth  91
Coconut Curry Soup  92
Hot and Sour Soup  93
Smashed Cucumber Salad  94
Pickled Radishes  95Fried Peanuts  96
Cold Sesame Noodle Salad  97
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce  98
Chili Crisp Sauce  99
XO Sauce  100
Sweet Chili Dipping Sauce  101
Scallion-Ginger Oil  102
90
 Dumplings for BeginnersWONTON SOUP BROTH
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 20 minutes Cook tiMe 2 hours 15 minutes
A rich, savory broth is essential to an excellent wonton soup. This recipe calls for premade 
chicken stock for more flavor instead of starting with water. Traditional Soup Wontons 
(page 37) make a classic combination with this broth, but you can also serve it with Fish 
and Napa Cabbage Dumplings (page 40).
2 pounds chicken 
parts (backs, necks, 
feet, wings)
8 ounces ham hocks or 
salt pork
4 cups chicken stock
1/2 head Napa cabbage, cut 
into chunks
1/ 4 cup dried shrimp
4 scallions, white and 
green parts separated, 
thinly sliced
4-inch piece fresh 
ginger, peeled
1 star anise pod
Kosher salt
Light soy sauce, for 
seasoning
1 batch cooked Traditional 
Soup Wontons (page 37)
2 tablespoons sesame oil
Cooking tiP: To save time 
and make a richer broth, use a 
pressure cooker for step 2 for 
40 minutes.1. In a large stockpot, combine the chicken and ham 
hocks and cover with water.  Bring to a boil and cook 
for 10 minutes. Drain the contents and rinse with 
cold water to remove any coagulated blood and 
foam.  Return to the stockpot.
2. Add the chicken broth and enough water to cover 
the bones by at least 1 inch. Add the cabbage, dried 
shrimp, scallion whites, ginger, and star anise.  Bring 
to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to low 
and simmer, uncovered, for about 2 hours. Using 
tongs or a skimmer, remove and discard the solid 
pieces from the broth.
3. Line a fine-mesh strainer with cheesecloth, set it 
over a large saucepan, and strain the broth. Season 
to taste with salt and soy sauce. 
4. Divide the cooked wontons and soup among 4 to 
6 warmed bowls. Garnish with sesame oil and the 
scallion greens to serve.91
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesSHIITAKE MUSHROOM WONTON SOUP BROTH
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 10 minutes Cook tiMe 40 minutes
This vegan version of the classic wonton soup with Tofu and Carrot Wontons (page 43) calls 
for premade vegetable stock as the base, which is fortified with mushrooms and aromatics. 
If you can’t find mushroom soy sauce, just add more dried mushrooms to the soup.
4 cups vegetable stock
1/2 head Napa cabbage, cut 
into chunks
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
4-inch piece fresh ginger, 
slightly smashed
2 garlic cloves, 
slightly smashed
4 scallions, white and 
green parts separated, 
thickly sliced
Kosher salt
Mushroom soy sauce, for 
seasoning
1 batch cooked Tofu and 
Carrot Wontons (page 43)
2 tablespoons sesame oil
Mix it uP: You don’t have to 
stick to vegetarian wontons. 
Use this broth for pork wontons 
or wontons with any of the 
dumpling fillings in this book, 
if having a vegan dish is not a 
concern for you.1. In a medium stockpot, combine the vegetable stock, 
cabbage, mushrooms, ginger, garlic, and scallion 
whites. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the 
heat to medium-low and simmer for 20 minutes, or 
until the mushrooms are rehydrated.
2. Using a slotted spoon, remove the mushrooms from 
the stock. T rim off the mushroom stems and thinly 
slice the caps. Set aside.
3. Line a fine-mesh strainer with cheesecloth, set it 
over a large saucepan, and strain the broth, dis-
carding the solids. Return the sliced mushrooms to 
the stock and simmer over low heat for 10 minutes. 
Season to taste with salt and mushroom soy sauce. 
4. Divide the cooked wontons and soup among 4 to 
6 warmed bowls. Garnish with sesame oil and the 
scallion greens to serve. 
  VEGAN92
 Dumplings for BeginnersCOCONUT CURRY SOUP
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 10 minutes Cook tiMe 35 minutes
As the winter months drag on, the dry, cold air makes me crave richer soups like this sooth -
ing coconut curry soup served with Spicy Shrimp Dumplings (page 47). I like to think the 
coconut milk is nourishing my skin from the inside out.
2 tablespoons coconut oil 
or vegetable oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon yellow 
curry powder
2 cups vegetable stock
Generous pinch kosher salt
2 (14-ounce) cans 
coconut milk
1 batch cooked Spicy 
Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 47)
Juice of 1/2 lime
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilantro
Cooking tiP: Use full-fat 
coconut milk for the most 
robust flavor.1. In a large saucepan over medium-high heat, heat 
the coconut oil until it shimmers. Add the onion and 
sweat for about 7 minutes until soft and translucent. 
Add the ginger and garlic and sauté for 1 minute, 
stirring to keep the garlic from browning. Stir in the 
curry powder and cook for about 30 seconds until 
fragrant.
2. Add the vegetable stock and bring to a boil. Add the 
salt and reduce the heat to low. Simmer the broth for 
10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in the coconut  
milk and continue to simmer on low heat for 10 minutes  
more. Do not let the broth boil. 
3. Divide the cooked dumplings and soup among 4 to 
6 warmed bowls. Garnish with cilantro to serve.93
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesHOT AND SOUR SOUP
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 10 minutes, plus 20 minutes to soak Cook tiMe 15 minutes
The spiciness and sourness of this soup balance out the rich Beef and Scallion Dumplings 
(page 41). Try using thicker dumpling wrappers—the wrappers will soak up the soup and 
get even tastier!
4 dried shiitake mushrooms
1/ 4 cup unseasoned 
rice vinegar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons light 
soy sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
1 tablespoon Chili Crisp 
Sauce (page 99) or 
store-bought chili oil
1 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1/ 4-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and minced
4 cups chicken stock
4 ounces firm tofu, rinsed 
and cut into 1/ 4-inch strips
1 batch cooked Beef 
and Scallion Dumplings 
(page 41)
2 scallions, white and green 
parts, thinly cut on the 
diagonal
Make it easier: Make a few 
batches of dumplings to keep 
in the freezer, so you can have 
this delicious soup in a matter 
of minutes.1. Place the mushrooms in a heat-proof bowl and cover 
them with boiling water. Soak for about 20 minutes 
until softened. Drain the mushrooms, reserving 
1/ 4 cup of soaking liquid in a small bowl. Thinly slice 
the mushrooms and set aside.
2. Stir the vinegar, cornstarch, soy sauce, sugar, chili 
crisp sauce, white pepper, and ginger into the 
reserved mushroom liquid until the cornstarch and 
sugar dissolve. Set aside.
3. In a large saucepan, bring the chicken stock to a 
boil. Reduce the heat to medium to keep a simmer 
and stir in the sliced mushrooms. Simmer for 
about 2 minutes.  Stir in the tofu and simmer for 
2 minutes more.
4. Give the cornstarch mixture a quick stir and stir it 
into the pot. T urn the heat to medium-high and cook 
the soup for about 30 seconds, stirring, until thick -
ened. Reduce the heat to maintain a simmer. 
5. Divide the cooked dumplings and soup among 4 to 
6 warmed bowls. Garnish with scallions to serve.94
 Dumplings for BeginnersSMASHED CUCUMBER SALAD
serves  4 PreP  tiMe 10 minutes
Just one whiff of this cucumber salad mixed with sesame oil and cilantro gets my mouth 
watering, and I’m instantly hungry. It’s a great summer salad when you want something 
crunchy and refreshing. It pairs beautifully alongside dumplings like Spicy Shrimp Dump -
lings (page 47) and Xiao Long Bao (page 52).
2 English cucumbers
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
1 tablespoon sesame oil
3 teaspoons sesame seeds, 
toasted, divided
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
1 teaspoon Chili Crisp 
Sauce (page 99)
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup roughly chopped 
fresh cilantro
Cooking tiP: This salad is 
best served immediately, but 
you can let it marinate for up 
to 30 minutes before serving.1. Lay one cucumber on a clean cutting board. Place 
the flat side of a cleaver or kitchen knife on the 
cucumber and pound your fist down the length of 
the knife, until the cucumber is flattened and split. 
Repeat with the second cucumber. Cut the cucum-
bers crosswise into 1-inch chunks and transfer to a 
medium bowl.
2. In a small bowl, whisk the vinegar, sesame oil, 
2 teaspoons of sesame seeds, garlic, soy sauce, chili 
crisp sauce, and sugar to blend. Pour the mixture 
over the cucumbers,  add the cilantro, and toss to 
coat. Garnish with the remaining 1 teaspoon of 
sesame seeds to serve.  
  VEGAN95
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesPICKLED RADISHES
serves  6 to 8 PreP  tiMe 15 minutes, plus overnight to pickle
When I was a kid, my granny came to stay with us for a visit. She liked pickled foods, so 
my mom made a huge jar of these pickled radishes. Granny ate them with everything, at 
every meal, and dipped into them as snacks throughout the day. This recipe works well with 
daikon radish and even carrot sticks.
12 to 15 red radishes, 
trimmed and quartered
3 fresh ginger slices, each 
about the size of a quar -
ter, peeled
2 garlic cloves, smashed
1 dried red chile
1 cup rice vinegar
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon kosher salt
Make it easier: If you want 
the pickled radishes sooner, 
thinly slice the radishes 
instead of quartering them and 
they should be ready by the 
time the pickling liquid is cool.1. In a clean 24-ounce glass jar, combine the radishes, 
ginger, garlic, and red chile.
2. In a small saucepan over high heat, combine the 
vinegar, sugar, 1/ 4 cup water, and the salt. Stir to dis-
solve the sugar and salt and bring to a boil. Remove 
from the heat and pour the pickling liquid into the jar 
to cover the radishes. Set aside for about 1 hour to 
cool to room temperature. Seal the jar and refriger -
ate overnight.
3. The pickles will be ready to eat the next day but will 
improve in flavor within 3 days. They will keep for up 
to 1 month in the refrigerator.  
 GLUTEN-FREE
 
  VEGAN96
 Dumplings for BeginnersFRIED PEANUTS
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 5 minutes Cook tiMe 6 minutes
Our favorite Chinese restaurant serves a generous bowl of fried peanuts as a free appetizer 
as we browse the menu. If you’ve only ever had roasted peanuts from the grocery store, try 
this recipe—freshly fried peanuts are a revelation!
3 cups fresh peanuts with 
skin, rinsed and drained
1 cup vegetable oil or 
peanut oil
Generous pinch kosher salt
Mix it uP: Toss in a pinch of 
five-spice powder with the salt 
to boost the flavor.1. Line a large plate with paper towels and set aside.
2. In a medium skillet over medium-low heat, com-
bine the peanuts and oil. Cook the peanuts for 5 to 
6 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until the nuts 
smell toasty and you hear a faint popping noise. 
Gently shake the pan to redistribute the peanuts in 
the oil so they fry evenly.
3. Using a skimmer, lift the peanuts from the hot oil 
and transfer to the prepared plate. Set aside to cool 
slightly. T ransfer the slightly cooled peanuts to a 
large bowl and toss with the salt. Serve warm.
 
 GLUTEN-FREE
 
  VEGAN97
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesCOLD SESAME NOODLE SALAD
serves  4 to 6 PreP  tiMe 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill Cook tiMe 10 minutes
This is a delicious and quick-to-prepare pantry dish. It’s a hit at parties and picnics. I like 
using chunky peanut butter for more texture, but use what you have. Although these noodles 
are best served cold, I will understand completely if you can’t wait that long and just eat 
them hot.
1 pound dried egg noodles
2 teaspoons sesame oil
1/2 cup peanut butter
2 tablespoons Chinese 
sesame paste
2 tablespoons light 
soy sauce
2 teaspoons rice vinegar
Pinch ground Sichuan  
pepper
1 small cucumber, peeled 
and cut into thin strips
3 scallions, white and green 
parts, thinly sliced
2 tablespoons roughly 
chopped fresh cilantro
1 tablespoon sesame seeds, 
toasted 
Cooking tiP: If you can’t 
find Chinese sesame paste, stir 
together 11/2 tablespoons tahini 
with 2 teaspoons sesame oil 
instead.1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and cook the noo-
dles according to the package instructions. Reserve 
1/ 4 cup of cooking water and drain the noodles. Rinse 
the noodles under cold water and drain completely. 
T ransfer to a bowl and toss with sesame oil to keep 
them from sticking. Chill in the refrigerator for 
30 minutes, or until cold.
2. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, whisk the reserved cook -
ing water, peanut butter, sesame paste, soy sauce, 
vinegar, and Sichuan pepper until smooth. Set aside.
3. T oss the chilled noodles in the peanut sauce until 
evenly coated. T ransfer the noodles to a serving plat -
ter. Garnish with cucumber, scallions, cilantro, and 
sesame seeds. Serve immediately.
4. Refrigerate leftovers, covered, for up to 5 days. 
 VEGETARIAN98
 Dumplings for BeginnersSOY-VINEGAR DIPPING SAUCE
Makes ½ cup PreP  tiMe 5 minutes Cook tiMe 5 minutes
Here is a classic dipping sauce to serve with dumplings. The acidity in the vinegar helps cut 
through the richness of the dumplings. When having people over, make a triple batch and 
provide everyone with a small dish of their own so they can double dip all they want.
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
3 tablespoons black vinegar
2 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon paper-thin 
sliced scallion, green 
part only
Cooking tiP: Black vine-
gar is like Chinese balsamic 
vinegar. If you can’t find 
black vinegar, substitute 
21/2 tablespoons balsamic 
vinegar plus 2 teaspoons rice 
vinegar.In a small saucepan over low heat, combine the 
soy sauce, vinegar, 2 tablespoons water, and the 
sugar. Heat for 5 minutes, or until the sugar is dis-
solved.  Remove from the heat and transfer to a small 
bowl. Sprinkle in the scallion.
 
  VEGAN99
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesCHILI CRISP SAUCE
Makes about 1 cup PreP  tiMe 5 minutes Cook tiMe 2 minutes, plus 20 minutes to cool
This sauce is all about minimal effort for maximum payoff. Its fiery red color and flavor can 
perk up any dish, especially dumplings! But you can add this to everything from scrambled 
eggs to steamed rice, and even avocado toast!
4 tablespoons Sichuan 
chili flakes
2 tablespoons white 
sesame seeds
1 star anise pod
1 cinnamon stick
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup vegetable oil
Cooking tiP: To achieve 
the bright red color, you need 
Sichuan chili flakes. For a 
spicier sauce, add a few more 
tablespoons of chili flakes 
or try gochugaru, or Korean 
chili flakes.1. In a medium heat-proof bowl, stir together the chili 
flakes, sesame seeds, star anise, cinnamon stick, and 
salt and set aside.
2. In a wok or skillet over medium-high heat, heat the 
oil. When it just begins to smoke, turn off the heat 
and carefully pour the hot oil over the spices. The 
mixture will sizzle and bubble up. Let cool for about 
20 minutes, or until cooled completely. 
3. Stir the sauce. Remove and discard the cinnamon 
stick and star anise. T ransfer the sauce to an air -
tight jar.  Refrigerate until ready to use, and up to 
3 to 4 weeks.
 
  VEGAN 
 GLUTEN-FREE 
 GLUTEN-FREE
100
 Dumplings for BeginnersXO SAUCE
Makes 2½ cups PreP  tiMe 15 minutes Cook tiMe 15 minutes
XO sauce is a spicy seafood-based condiment from Hong Kong that packs a savory punch. 
Dried scallops can be a bit pricey, but necessary, for this sauce. You can find them at most 
Asian markets or online. Keep this sauce in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 
1 month.
3 ounces large dried 
scallops
20 dried red chiles,  
stemmed
2 fresh red chiles, chopped
2 shallots, chopped
2 garlic cloves, chopped
3 ounces small dried shrimp
2 ounces bacon, minced
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon dark 
brown sugar
2 teaspoons Chinese 
five-spice powder
2 tablespoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
Cooking tiP: When cooking 
this sauce, open a window and 
turn on your exhaust fan—the 
chiles can be overpowering.1. Place the scallops in a large glass bowl and cover 
with boiling water by 1 inch. Soak for 10 minutes, or 
until the scallops are soft. Reserve 2 tablespoons of 
soaking water, then drain the remaining liquid. Cover 
the bowl and microwave the scallops on high power 
for 3 minutes. Set aside.
2. Once cooled, use your fingers to rub the scallops 
together to loosen into thin shreds about 1/ 4 inch 
long. T ransfer to a clean bowl and set aside.
3. In a food processor, combine the dried chiles, fresh 
chiles, shallots, and garlic. Pulse until minced, scrap-
ing down the sides of the bowl occasionally. Add the 
mixture to the scallops. 
4. In the food processor (no need to clean it), combine 
the shrimp and bacon. Pulse until minced.
5. Heat a skillet or wok over medium-high heat. Add 
the vegetable oil and swirl to coat the skillet. Add 
the shrimp and bacon and cook for 1 to 2 minutes 
until the bacon is browned and crispy. Sprinkle in 
the brown sugar and five-spice powder and cook for 
about 1 minute until the sugar caramelizes.
6. Reduce the heat to medium and add the scallop and 
chili-garlic mixture. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until 
the garlic begins to caramelize. Add the rice wine and 
cook for 2 to 3 minutes until the wine evaporates. 
T ransfer the sauce to a bowl and let cool. 101
 Soups, Side Snacks, and Dipping SaucesSWEET CHILI DIPPING SAUCE
Makes about 2 cups PreP  tiMe 10 minutes Cook tiMe 20 minutes
Thai sweet chili sauce is available in most Asian markets, but it’s easy to make at home, 
which allows you to control the amount of sweetness and heat. The finished sauce should 
have a perfect balance of sweet, hot, and savory. Serve with Crab Rangoons (page 78) or 
Turkey and Napa Cabbage Potstickers (page 82).
1/2 cup rice vinegar
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons Shaoxing 
rice wine
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon red pepper  
flakes
11/2 tablespoons cornstarch
Mix it uP: For a fresher, less 
spicy flavor, use 2 or 3 fresh 
Thai bird chiles, minced, if you 
can find them.1. In a saucepan over medium-high heat, combine 
the vinegar, sugar, 3 tablespoons of cold water, the 
fish sauce, rice wine, garlic, and red pepper flakes. 
Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low and 
simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until 
the sauce is reduced by half.
2. In a small bowl, stir together 1/ 4 cup water and the 
cornstarch until dissolved. Add the the cornstarch 
slurry to the sauce and cook for about 2 minutes, 
stirring, until the sauce thickens. Remove from the 
heat and transfer to a bowl to cool before using.
3. Refrigerate, covered, for up to 3 days.
 
 GLUTEN-FREE102
 Dumplings for BeginnersSCALLION-GINGER OIL
Makes about 2 cups PreP  tiMe 5 minutes Cook tiMe 25 minutes
This robust oil is my secret ingredient for adding extra flavor to virtually any dish—just a 
dab gives an amazing flavor pop! You can use the oil hot or cold. Keep a small jar in your 
refrigerator, so it’s always on hand. Serve with Shui Jiao (page 36) or Fish and Napa Cab -
bage Dumplings (page 40).
4 to 6 scallions, white and 
green parts, thinly sliced
2-inch piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated or 
finely chopped
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup vegetable oil
Cooking tiP: This oil is a 
great way to use up bits of 
scallion and ginger hanging 
around in your fridge. Don’t let 
them go to waste. 1. In a medium heat-proof bowl, stir together the scal-
lions, ginger, and salt to combine. Set aside.
2. In a wok or skillet over medium-high heat, heat the 
vegetable oil until it just begins to smoke. Remove 
the wok from the heat and, carefully and slowly, 
pour the hot oil over the scallions and ginger, so it 
does not bubble over. Let the mixture cool for about 
20 minutes, or until cooled completely.
3. Refrigerate in an airtight jar until ready to use, or 
up to 3 days.
 
  VEGAN 
 GLUTEN-FREEMeasurements and Conversions
105FAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C)
(approximate)
OVEN 
TEMPERATURES/two.tab/five.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabF /one.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/three.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabF /one.tab/five.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/three.tab/two.tab/five.tab/degree.tabF /one.tab/eight.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/three.tab/seven.tab/five.tab/degree.tabF /one.tab/nine.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/four.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabF /two.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/four.tab/two.tab/five.tab/degree.tabF /two.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabC
/four.tab/five.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabF /two.tab/three.tab/zero.tab/degree.tabCUS STANDARDUS STANDARD 
(ounces)METRIC 
(approximate)
VOLUME 
EQUIVALENTS 
(Liquid)/two.tab/space.tabtablespoons /one.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /three.tab/zero.tab/space.tabmL
¼/space.tabcup /two.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /six.tab/zero.tab/space.tabmL
½/space.tabcup /four.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /one.tab/two.tab/zero.tab/space.tabmL
/one.tab/space.tabcup /eight.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /two.tab/four.tab/zero.tab/space.tabmL
/one.tab ½/space.tabcups /one.tab/two.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /three.tab/five.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
/two.tab/space.tabcups/space.tabor/space.tab/one.tab/space.tabpint /one.tab/six.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /four.tab/seven.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
/four.tab/space.tabcups/space.tabor/space.tab/one.tab/space.tabquart /three.tab/two.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /one.tab/space.tabL
/one.tab/space.tabgallon /one.tab/two.tab/eight.tab/space.tabfl/period.tab/space.taboz/period.tab /four.tab/space.tabL
VOLUME 
EQUIVALENTS 
(Dry)⅛/space.tabteaspoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /zero.tab/period.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
¼/space.tabteaspoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/space.tabmL
½/space.tabteaspoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /two.tab/space.tabmL
¾/space.tabteaspoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /four.tab/space.tabmL
/one.tab/space.tabteaspoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /five.tab/space.tabmL
/one.tab/space.tabtablespoon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
¼/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /five.tab/nine.tab/space.tabmL
⅓/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /seven.tab/nine.tab/space.tabmL
½/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/one.tab/eight.tab/space.tabmL
⅔/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/five.tab/six.tab/space.tabmL
¾/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/seven.tab/seven.tab/space.tabmL
/one.tab/space.tabcup /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /two.tab/three.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
/two.tab/space.tabcups/space.tabor/space.tab/one.tab/space.tabpint /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /four.tab/seven.tab/five.tab/space.tabmL
/three.tab/space.tabcups /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /seven.tab/zero.tab/zero.tab/space.tabmL
/four.tab/space.tabcups/space.tabor/space.tab/one.tab/space.tabquart /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/space.tabL
½/space.tabgallon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /two.tab/space.tabL
/one.tab/space.tabgallon /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /four.tab/space.tabL
WEIGHT 
EQUIVALENTS½/space.tabounce /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/five.tab/space.tabg
/one.tab/space.tabounce /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /three.tab/zero.tab/space.tabg
/two.tab/space.tabounces /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /six.tab/zero.tab/space.tabg
/four.tab/space.tabounces /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /one.tab/one.tab/five.tab/space.tabg
/eight.tab/space.tabounces /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /two.tab/two.tab/five.tab/space.tabg
/one.tab/two.tab/space.tabounces /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /three.tab/four.tab/zero.tab/space.tabg
/one.tab/six.tab/space.tabounces/space.tabor/space.tab/one.tab/space.tabpound /space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab/space.tab /four.tab/five.tab/five.tab/space.tabg
106Resources
99 Ranch Market (99Ranch.com): There are 51 stores across seven states special-
izing in Chinese groceries and products. Here, you can buy proteins, seafood, dry 
goods, spices, condiments, fresh noodles, and produce. They even have an online 
shop where you can order items to be shipped to you if there isn’t a store near you.
Amazon (Amazon.com): Y ou can buy virtually any piece of equipment or pantry 
ingredient needed for dumplings on Amazon.
H Mart (Hmart.com): With 71 locations nationwide, this Korean American super -
market chain carries pan-Asian produce and imported goods, including Korean and 
Chinese staples. 
Sur La Table (SurLaT able.com): I mentioned that my favorite nonstick skillets and 
woks are the ceramic titanium nonstick pans made by Scanpan. Made in Denmark 
from 100 percent recycled aluminum, these are investment pieces and indispens-
able for all kinds of cooking, not just for making dumplings. Sur La T able has been 
selling top quality kitchenware since 1972 and is the largest seller of Scanpan prod-
ucts in the United States.
The Wok Shop (WokShop.com/newstore): A local favorite in San Francisco’s China-
town, it is a shop jam-crammed full of woks, steamer baskets, spiders, and everything 
else you need for making dumplings. Visit in person, if you can, or online.107Index
B
Bamboo shoots
Crystal Wood Ear and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 64–65
Mushroom and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 44–45
Baos, 3, 12, 18
Bao Dough, 22
Five-Spice Chicken 
Baos, 86–87
Red Bean Paste Baos, 66
Basic Dumpling Dough, 20
Beef and Scallion Dumplings, 41
Black Bean Sauce Dumplings, 
T urkey and, 46
Boiled dumplings, 12, 13
Beef and Scallion 
Dumplings, 41
Charred Cabbage and 
Chive Dumplings, 42
Fish and Napa Cabbage 
Dumplings, 40
Mandu-Guk (Kimchi Dumplings 
in Egg Drop Soup), 39
Mushroom and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 44–45
Shiu Jiao, 36
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil, 38
Spicy Shrimp Dumplings, 47
T ofu and Carrot Wontons, 43
T raditional Soup Wontons, 37
T urkey and Black Bean 
Sauce Dumplings, 46
Bok choy
Bok Choy and Salted Mustard 
Greens Potstickers, 79–80
Pork and Bok Choy Jiaozi, 56
Broths
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91
Wonton Soup Broth, 90C
Cabbage. See also Kimchi
Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza, 71
Charred Cabbage and 
Chive Dumplings, 42
Fish and Napa Cabbage 
Dumplings, 40
T urkey and Napa Cabbage 
Potstickers, 82–83
Carrot Wontons, T ofu  
and, 43
Charred Cabbage and Chive 
Dumplings, 42
Char Siu Bao, 3, 54
Chicken
Chicken Momos with T omato 
Sesame Chutney, 57–58
Five-Spice Chicken 
Baos, 86–87
Pan-Fried Chicken and 
Green Bean Momos, 74
Pork and Chicken Mandu, 81
Chili Crisp Sauce, 99
Chili Oil, Sichuan Wontons in, 38
Chives
Charred Cabbage and 
Chive Dumplings, 42
Crystal Chive Dumplings, 63
Classic Pork Potstickers, 70
Coconut Curry Soup, 92
Cold Sesame Noodle  
Salad, 97
Crab Rangoons, 78
Crystal dumplings, 12
Crystal Chive Dumplings, 63
Crystal Dumpling Dough, 21
Crystal Wood Ear and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 64–65
Cucumber Salad, Smashed, 94
Curried Potato Dumplings, 84–85D
Deep-fried dumplings, 13
Crab Rangoons, 78
Deep-Fried T urkey Wontons, 77
Doughs
Bao Dough, 22
Basic Dumpling Dough, 20
Crystal Dumpling Dough, 21
half-moon fold, 26–27
making, 9
pantry staples, 6–7
parcel fold, 29–30
pleated crescent fold, 27–28
portioning and rolling, 24–25
soup dumpling fold, 30–32
troubleshooting, 33
types of, 18
wonton fold, 28–29
Dumpling parties, 23
Dumplings
about, 2
cooking techniques, 13
folding, 10
folding techniques, 25–32
freezing, 11
steps, 9–10
storing, 10–12
troubleshooting, 14–15
types of, 3
E
Eggplant and Water Chestnut 
Half-Moons, 61–62
F
Fillings
making, 9
pantry staples, 7–8
Fish and Napa Cabbage 
Dumplings, 40
Five-Spice Chicken Baos, 86–87108 IndexFried dumplings. See 
Deep-fried dumplings; 
Pan-fried dumplings
Fried Peanuts, 96
G
Gluten-free
Chili Crisp Sauce, 99
Fried Peanuts, 96
Pickled Radishes, 95
Scallion-Ginger Oil, 102
Sweet Chili Dipping  
Sauce, 101
XO Sauce, 100
Green Bean Momos, Pan-Fried  
Chicken and, 74
Gyoza, 3, 12
Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza, 71
H
Har Gow, 3, 55
Hot and Sour Soup, 93
J
Jiaozi, 3, 12
Pork and Bok Choy Jiaozi, 56
K
Kimchi
Kimchi Mandu, 72–73
Mandu-Guk (Kimchi Dumplings 
in Egg Drop Soup), 39
M
Mandu, 3, 12
Kimchi Mandu, 72–73
Mandu-Guk (Kimchi Dumplings 
in Egg Drop Soup), 39
Pork and Chicken Mandu, 81
Momos, 3
Chicken Momos with T omato 
Sesame Chutney, 57–58
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60Pan-Fried Chicken and 
Green Bean Momos, 74
Mushrooms
Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza, 71
Crystal Wood Ear and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 64–65
Mushroom and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 44–45
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91
Shu Mai, 50–51
Mustard Greens Potstickers, Bok 
Choy and Salted, 79–80
N
Noodle Salad, Cold Sesame, 97
O
Oil, Scallion-Ginger, 102
P
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60
Pan-fried dumplings, 12, 13
Bok Choy and Salted  
Mustard Greens 
Potstickers, 79–80
Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza, 71
Classic Pork Potstickers, 70
Five-Spice Chicken 
Baos, 86–87
Kimchi Mandu, 72–73
Pan-Fried Chicken and 
Green Bean Momos, 74
Pork and Chicken  
Mandu, 81
Shengjian Bao (Pan-Fried 
Pork Buns), 75–76
T urkey and Napa Cabbage 
Potstickers, 82–83
Pantry staples, 6–8
Peanuts, Fried, 96
Pickled Radishes, 95Pork
Char Siu Bao, 54
Classic Pork Potstickers, 70
Pork and Bok Choy Jiaozi, 56
Pork and Chicken Mandu, 81
Shengjian Bao (Pan-Fried 
Pork Buns), 75–76
Shiu Jiao, 36
Shu Mai, 50–51
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil, 38
Xiao Long Bao, 52–53
Potato Dumplings, 
Curried, 84–85
Potstickers, 3, 12
Bok Choy and Salted Mustard 
Greens Potstickers, 79–80
Classic Pork Potstickers, 70
T urkey and Napa Cabbage 
Potstickers, 82–83
R
Radishes, Pickled, 95
Recipes, about, 15
Red Bean Paste Baos, 66
S
Salads
Cold Sesame Noodle  
Salad, 97
Smashed Cucumber Salad, 94
Sauces, 8
Chili Crisp Sauce, 99
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce, 98
Sweet Chili Dipping Sauce, 101
XO Sauce, 100
Scallions
Beef and Scallion 
Dumplings, 41
Scallion-Ginger Oil, 102
Seasonings, 8
Sesame Noodle Salad, Cold, 97
Shengjian Bao (Pan-Fried 
Pork Buns), 3, 75–76
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91109 IndexShrimp
Har Gow, 55
Shu Mai, 50–51
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil, 38
Spicy Shrimp Dumplings, 47
T raditional Soup Wontons, 37
Shui Jiao, 36
Shu Mai, 3, 12, 50–51
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil, 38
Smashed Cucumber Salad, 94
Soups
Coconut Curry Soup, 92
Hot and Sour Soup, 93
Mandu-Guk (Kimchi Dumplings 
in Egg Drop Soup), 39
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91
Wonton Soup Broth, 90
Xiao Long Bao, 52–53
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce, 98
Spicy Shrimp Dumplings, 47
Steamed dumplings, 12, 13
Char Siu Bao, 54
Chicken Momos with  
T omato Sesame 
Chutney, 57–58
Crystal Chive Dumplings, 63
Crystal Wood Ear and  
Bamboo Shoot 
Dumplings, 64–65
Eggplant and Water Chestnut 
Half-Moons, 61–62
Har Gow, 55
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60
Pork and Bok Choy Jiaozi, 56Red Bean Paste Baos, 66
Shu Mai, 50–51
Xiao Long Bao, 52–53
Sweet Chili Dipping Sauce, 101
T
T ofu and Carrot Wontons, 43
T omatoes
Chicken Momos with  
T omato Sesame 
Chutney, 57–58
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60
T ools and equipment, 4–6
T raditional Soup Wontons, 37
T roubleshooting, 14–15, 33
T urkey
Deep-Fried T urkey Wontons, 77
T urkey and Black Bean 
Sauce Dumplings, 46
T urkey and Napa Cabbage 
Potstickers, 82–83
V
Vegan
Bok Choy and Salted Mustard 
Greens Potstickers, 79–80
Cabbage and Mushroom 
Gyoza, 71
Charred Cabbage and 
Chive Dumplings, 42
Chili Crisp Sauce, 99
Crystal Chive Dumplings, 63
Crystal Wood Ear and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 64–65
Eggplant and Water Chestnut 
Half-Moons, 61–62
Fried Peanuts, 96Pickled Radishes, 95
Red Bean Paste Baos, 66
Scallion-Ginger Oil, 102
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91
Smashed Cucumber Salad, 94
Soy-Vinegar Dipping Sauce, 98
T ofu and Carrot Wontons, 43
Vegetarian. See also Vegan
Cold Sesame Noodle Salad, 97
Curried Potato 
Dumplings, 84–85
Kimchi Mandu, 72–73
Mandu-Guk (Kimchi Dumplings 
in Egg Drop Soup), 39
Mushroom and Bamboo 
Shoot Dumplings, 44–45
Paneer Momo Jhol in Spicy 
T omato Soup, 59–60
W
Water Chestnut Half-Moons, 
Eggplant and, 61–62
Wontons, 3, 12
Deep-Fried T urkey Wontons, 77
folding technique, 28–29
Shiitake Mushroom Wonton 
Soup Broth, 91
Sichuan Wontons in Chili Oil, 38
T ofu and Carrot Wontons, 43
T raditional Soup Wontons, 37
Wonton Soup Broth, 90
Wrappers, 6, 18–19.  
See also Doughs
X
Xiao Long Bao, 3, 12, 52–53
XO Sauce, 100Acknowledgments
Gratitude goes to the entire team at Callisto Media, especially my editor, Annie Choi, 
whose patient encouragement guided me to complete this book. Thanks to Ada Fung 
who developed this concept with clarity and insight. Thank you both for trusting me 
with your vision.
Special thanks to Cynthia Shum, who went along with Devyn’s wish to celebrate his 
birthday with an unforgettable dumpling-making party. The memories of that wonder -
ful class carried me through writing this book.
Most importantly, thanks to Mr. B for his support and jumping in to make dinner 
while I wrote this book! I love you so much!
About the Author
CHEF TERRI DIEN is a native New Y orker living in the San Francisco 
Bay Area. She left political consulting in 2003 to pursue her lifelong 
passion and enrolled in City College of San Francisco’s Culinary Arts 
and Hospitality Studies program. Dien has worked in restaurants, 
in both savory and pastry roles, and enjoyed a 15-year teaching 
career for Draeger’s Cooking School, South San Francisco Parks and 
Recreation, and Sur La T able. Currently, she is executive chef for 
the Child Care Program at Google. T erri Dien lives in San Mateo, California, with her 
husband, Paul, and their two cats, Sarah and Henry. Keep in touch with @ChefT erriDien 
on Instagram!
50 Recipes and Simple 
Step-by-Step Lessons to Make 
Your Favorite Dumplings
TERRI DIENDUMPLINGS
forbeginners
Your Favorite Dumplings
TERRI DIEN
TERRI DIEN
Make your own Asian dumplings from 
scratch with beginner-friendly recipes
Dumplings are li/t_t  le parcels of love—juicy presents on a plate that bring joy 
with every savory bite. And now you can enjoy restaurant-quality potstickers,
wontons, baos, and other dim sum classics without leaving the comfort 
of your own kitchen! Dumplings for Beginners is ﬁ  lled with instructions 
to guide you through every step of the dumpling-making process.
Step-by-step directions and detailed illustrations teach you how to 
make, portion, and roll out three types of dough, as well as how to 
fold ﬁ  ve classic dumpling shapes. Once you’ve mastered the basics, 
dive into easy-to-follow recipes for boiled, steamed, fried, and pan-fried 
dumplings—plus soups, side snacks, and dipping sauces.
DOUGH PRIMERS  Learn the diﬀ  erent types of dumpling dough, 
traditional folding techniques, tips for using store-bought wrappers, 
and solutions to common issues.
KITCHEN ESSENTIALS  Ensure dumpling success with advice for 
stocking your kitchen with must-have equipment and ingredients.
RECIPE HACKS  Switch up the ﬂ  avors and textures of your dumplings 
with suggestions for alternate ﬁ  llings, sauce and stock pairings, cooking 
methods, and more.
RECIPES INCLUDE Shu Mai /orn.042Beef and Scallion Dumplings 
/orn.042Xiao Long Bao /orn.042Classic Pork Potstickers /orn.042Hot and Sour Soup 
/orn.042Chili Crisp Sauce, and more!
CHEF TERRI DIEN has a 15-year teaching career for Draeger’s Cooking School, 
South San Francisco Parks and Recreation, and Sur La Table. Currently, she is 
executive chef for the Child Care Program at Google. Dien lives in San Mateo, 
California, with her husband, Paul, and their two cats, Sarah and Henry. Keep 
in touch with her on Instagram @ChefTerriDien.
U.S. $14.99 CAN $19.99 R0DIEN                                  DUMPLINGS FOR BEGINNERS