1CHAPTER 1
Welcome to Cajun and 
Creole Cooking
Louisiana Cajun and Creole culture originates in the bayous and waterways 
of South Louisiana and the Mississippi Delta. Although deeply rooted in 
traditions handed down from generation to generation, Cajun and Creole 
cooking has evolved and today reflects Italian, German, Vietnamese, French,  
African, Caribbean, and South American influences.
Today the world of Cajun and Creole cooking is far-reaching. You can sample 
it as far away as Somers Point, New Jersey, which holds a Cajun Festival every  
February; Longview, Texas, where a parade rolls along with Cajun cuisine the  
Saturday before Mardi Gras; or at a restaurant in Puyallup, Washington, that churns 
out classic New Orleans dishes and cocktails. From coast to coast, Americans enjoy 
the spicy, tasty, delectable, sweet, and sometimes decadent, self-indulgent flavors 
that make up Cajun and Creole cooking.2 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKThe Basics of Cajun and  
Creole Cooking
Cajun cooking developed from the descendants of French colonists who settled 
in Acadia in the Canadian provinces in the 17th century. In the mid-1770s the 
colonists were expelled during French–English hostilities, and they migrated to 
South Louisiana. Some Cajuns, especially those born in the New World, called 
themselves Creole. This French term, borrowed from Spanish and Portuguese, 
means “born in the new world.” Others who self-identify with Creole include 
Spanish and Latin American cultures who settled in South Louisiana during the 
same time.
Cajun and Creole cooking is more than the sum of the food, ingredients, and 
preparation methods that make up a recipe. It also includes Louisiana culture, 
natural resources of the South, and the seasons that produce a variety of fresh 
fruits, vegetables, meats, and seafood in the region. Walk into most home gar -
dens and you’ll find okra, tomatoes, and eggplant; varieties of squash from acorn 
to zucchini; collards, mustards, turnip greens, and Swiss chard; the Cajun Trinity 
of onions, celery, and bell peppers; and peppers ranging from hot to mild to 
sweet, such as jalapeño, cayenne, habanero, ancho, poblano, and banana. Meats 
from a Cajun butcher shop include a wide range of pork cuts, like bacon, fat 
back, ribs, pork loin, pork chops, pork shoulder, andouille sausage, Tasso ham, 
smoked sausage links, breakfast sausage patties, crackling pork, smoked ribs, 
and pulled pork. And let’s not forget about the abundance of seafood found 
along the coastal waterways, byways and the Gulf of Mexico, starting with 
those favorite bivalves, the Gulf oyster. These sweet and salty, plump and juicy, 
ready-for-dipping-in-cocktail-sauce delicacies are not to be missed. Shrimp, 
another bounty of the sea, range from brown to white depending on the source 
and season and come in many sizes.3 Welcome to Cajun and Creole CookingKitchen Equipment for Cajun and 
Creole Cooking
A well-stocked kitchen is critical for the home cook, as you need the right tools 
to turn out successful dishes. Cajun and Creole cooking is no exception. I’ve 
listed the essential equipment, plus a list of optional pieces that are not always 
necessary but make good additions to your wish list.
Essentials
These tools are the most essential pieces of kitchen equipment you’ll need to get 
started on the path of Cajun and Creole cooking.
• Large cast-iron skillet. A well-seasoned large cast-iron skillet is essential 
for blackening fish, chicken, and steak. You can use this multipurpose pan 
on stovetops, grills, and wood-burning fires as well as in the oven.
• Dutch oven (3-quart). A 3-quart Dutch oven with a tight-fitting lid is a 
must for soups and stews. Like the cast-iron skillet, you can use this on the 
stovetop, on a grill, and in the oven.
• Stockpot (8-quart). A large, heavy, lined stockpot that can hold at least 
8 quarts (2 gallons) is best for making chicken, beef, seafood, and vegetable 
stocks. To get 1 gallon of stock, you need enough volume to hold all the 
ingredients and room for the liquid to simmer for several hours without 
evaporating. This pot is also great for making soups and stews.
• Chef knife. If you have only one knife, make sure it’s a high-quality sharp 
chef knife. I’d say I do 99 percent of my knife work in the kitchen with my 
10-inch chef knife. Good-quality brands include Henckels, Victorinox, and 
Wüsthof. You’ll do most of your chopping, dicing, and slicing with your chef 
knife, and it can’t be beat for flexibility and all-around usefulness. Heck, I’ve 
even seen a chef use one to trim down a whole beef tenderloin. 
• Roasting pan (9-by-13-inch). Make sure you have at least one 9-by-13-inch 
roasting pan with sides that are at least 3 inches high. 4 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKOptional
Optional kitchen items that are good to have but not essential include:
• Baking sheets. You’ll find that 18-by-24-inch baking sheets are great for 
baking, roasting, and setting up cold or prepped items.
• Meat thermometer. A probe meat thermometer is a foolproof way to deter -
mine whether your meat is done. It also prevents overcooking and ensures 
you’re heating foods to the proper internal temperature.
• Food processor. For a smooth cream soup or hummus, the food processor 
is a handy tool that makes quick prep of most recipes.
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread Muffins 655 Welcome to Cajun and Creole CookingKitchen Staples
A well-stocked pantry is the start to great food and easy preparation. Here is a 
list of the produce, meat and seafood, pantry goods, and spices and other items 
used in the  recipes in this book.
Produce
• Cajun Trinity (onions, celery, bell peppers): Used in many Cajun and 
Creole dishes
• Garlic: Make sure you have plenty; you’ll use double or triple the amount 
called for in typical recipes.
• Okra: A favorite in gumbo but used in other recipes
• Parsley: Not only a garnish, but also adds delicate flavor
• Scallions: Adds great flavor and makes a wonderful garnish
Meat and Seafood
• Andouille or smoked sausage: These sausages are interchangeable and 
used in many dishes.
• Bacon: Rendered bacon fat adds so much flavor to any sautéed dish.
• Crabmeat: These delicate, luscious morsels are always a delight in soups 
and stuffings.
• Crawfish or shrimp: Otherwise known as the bounty of the sea, crawfish 
and shrimp are interchangeable in the recipes that follow.
• Oysters: Raw, baked, or chargrilled, this bivalve is a must in your 
cooking arsenal.
• Spiced or Tasso ham: Turn up the heat in your recipe with some of this 
highly spiced pork.6 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKPantry Goods
• Converted rice, jasmine rice, basmati rice: Cajuns and Creoles love their 
rice—put any sauce on top and it’s good eating.
• Diced tomatoes: Many of these recipes use diced tomatoes, so keep a few 
cans on hand.
• Prepared horseradish: You’ll need this ingredient for cocktail sauce.
• Tomato-based chili sauce: The classic cocktail sauce would not exist  
without this ingredient.
• Worcestershire sauce: This sauce is my secret ingredient in many recipes.
Spices and Other Items
• Basil: This classic herb is included in many recipes.
• Cayenne pepper: Need I say more? Cajun 101 here.
• Filé powder: This rich, flavorful herbal powder is an essential gumbo spice 
usually added at the end of cooking.
• Hot sauce: You can add this sauce to dishes such as jambalaya, gumbo, or 
étouffée, or just dash a few drops in your gumbo or over your red beans and 
rice. I like Crystal Hot Sauce, which is made in New Orleans.
• Oregano: This spice is used in many Cajun and Creole dishes.
• Pickled peppers in vinegar: Sprinkle some spicy vinegar over your red 
beans and enjoy.
• Smoked paprika: This spice adds great smoke flavor.
• Thyme: This spice is perfect for étouffée, gumbo, and jambalaya.9CHAPTER 2
Foundations of Cajun 
and Creole Fare
Quick Roux 11
Blond Roux 12
Dark Roux 13
Chicken Stock 15
Beef Stock 16
Vegetable Stock 17Seafood Stock 18
Cajun Spice Blend 20
Grill Barbecue Rub 21
Creole Spice Blend 22
Cajun Trinity  24
Cocktail Sauce 25
Classic Cajun and Creole recipes usually start with essentials like roux, 
stocks, spice blends, and the Cajun Trinity. A roux thickens and adds flavor. 
This chapter includes recipes for three types of roux: quick, blond, and 
dark. For soups, sauces, and stews, stocks provide additional flavor you just can’t 
get from water. You’ll find great recipes for chicken, beef, vegetable, and seafood 
stocks. Spice blends are another foundation for Cajun and Creole cooking, and 
Cajun Spice Blend, Grill Barbecue Rub, and Creole Spice Blend are used repeatedly 
in these recipes. Store the spice blends for several months at room temperature in 
a cool pantry out of direct sunlight.
Vegetable Stock, page 17Roux
A roux thickens a d ish and enhances its fl  avor. It’s typically found 
in recipes for soups, sauces, stews, gumbo, étouff  ée, and stuffi   ngs. A 
roux is always a one-to-one ratio (weight or volume) of fl  our to fat. 
You can use any fat to make a roux, including peanut oil, bacon fat, 
duck fat, chicken fat, butter, and margarine. If you want to create a 
deeper fl  avor profi  le in your dish, use a roux made from animal fat.
Three elements of a roux change as it continues to cook are: 
the color darkens, the fl  avor becomes richer and nuttier, and the 
thickening property diminishes because the gluten and protein in 
the fl  our break down.öööö11 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole FareQUICK ROUX
30 MINUTES, ONE POT
When you ’re short on time and need a quick roux, this one gets your 
recipe started in a jiff  y. This basic roux is perfect for thickening soup, 
béchamel (milk-based) sauce, or any other sauce you need to make in a 
hurry. It does not cook very long so you won’t achieve a deep fl  avor, but 
you will get the full thickening power of the fl  our.  MAKES 1 CUP
PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
½ cup peanut oil, bacon 
fat, or butter
½ cup fl  our1. In a large nonstick pan, heat the oil or fat, or melt 
the butter.
2. Stir in the fl  our until it is incorporated and the mix-
ture is smooth. Continue to cook over medium-low 
heat, stirring continuously, for 6 to 8 minutes, until the 
roux has thickened and the fl  our has cooked.
STORAGE TIP: Use the roux immediately in any recipe that calls for 
a quick roux. Store in a sealed mason jar in the refrigerator for up to 
1 month or in the freezer for up to 3 months.
PREPARATION TIP: For an even faster roux, whisk together the 
fat and fl  our in a microwave-safe bowl, then microwave for 1 minute, 
remove, and stir. Return to the microwave for 1 more minute, then 
remove and stir again. Repeat once more. Let cool before using.12 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BLOND ROUX
30 MINUTES, ONE POT
Blond roux is one of the most widely used of the roux family. It thickens  
cream-based soups, such as Oyster Artichoke Soup (page 49), and 
milk- or dairy-based sauces, like béchamel sauce. Blond roux is not as 
dark as other roux, but it does start to take on a hint of color (hence 
the name). Blond roux has a nuttier flavor than a quick roux and retains 
almost as much thickening power.  MAKES 1 CUP
PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  25 minutes
½ cup peanut oil, bacon 
fat, or butter
½ cup flour1. In a large nonstick pan, heat the oil or fat, or melt 
the butter.
2. Stir in the flour until it is incorporated and the mix -
ture is smooth. Continue to cook over medium-low 
heat, stirring continuously, for 20 minutes, or until 
the roux has thickened, the flour has cooked, and the 
color is light but not burned.
STORAGE TIP: Use the roux immediately in any recipe that calls for 
a quick roux. Store in a sealed mason jar in the refrigerator for up to 
1 month or in the freezer for up to 3 months.
PREPARATION TIP: Be sure to give the roux your undivided atten-
tion. Stirring constantly ensures an evenly cooked roux without burned 
specks of flour.13 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole Fare
DARK ROUX
ONE POT
Found in recipes for gumbo, sauce piquant, étouffée, and other Cajun 
and Creole preparations, the dark roux is full of nutty, toasty flavor that 
adds richness to any dish. As the roux continues to cook you will notice 
that its aroma starts to take on a nutty bouquet like toasted almonds. 
This is a sign it’s almost done.  MAKES 1 CUP
PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
½ cup peanut oil, bacon 
fat, or butter
½ cup flour1. In a large nonstick pan, heat the oil or fat, or melt 
the butter.
2. Stir in the flour until it is incorporated and the mix -
ture is smooth. Continue to cook over medium-low 
heat, stirring continuously, for 30 to 45 minutes, 
or until the flour has cooked and the color is dark 
but not burned.
3. Remove from the heat. To avoid any splatter, let cool 
before adding to any preparation.
STORAGE TIP: Store in a sealed mason jar in the refrigerator for up 
to 1 month or in the freezer for up to 3 months.
PREPARATION TIP: Start with a wire whisk to incorporate the 
flour and fat. Once all the lumps are out of the flour, switch to a 
wooden spoon or, better yet, a wooden paddle. The paddle makes 
it easier to ensure you are stirring the bottom of the pan and helps 
prevent burning.Stock
A good stock is an essential ingredient for laying the foundation of 
your Cajun and Creole cooking. It adds so much fl  avor to sauces, 
soups, stews, gumbos, and other dishes. In addition to the main fl  a-
voring from the bones, most stocks include onions, celery, carrots, 
parsley, garlic, fresh herbs, and other seasonings. For vegetable 
stock, you can add a host of other vegetables, including greens, 
vegetable tops (like carrot, beet, and radish), broccoli bottoms, cau-
lifl  ower cores, cabbage, and anything else you have on hand.
Stocks can seem like mysterious concoctions and they instill fear 
in many, but they are actually simple one-pot recipes. When cooking 
stock, it generally takes as long as 12 hours and as little as 1 hour to 
complete the fl  avor-extraction process. Beef stock requires the most 
time, and seafood stock cooks most quickly. The beef stock recipe in 
this book takes only a few hours.
Follow these tips for making a good stock: 
• Start with cool water. Never add ingredients to warm water. 
• Bring the pot to a slow simmer. If you boil the stock, it will 
become cloudy. 
• Never stir stock. You want the ingredients to fall or rise to the 
top of the pot naturally. 
• Do not cover stock, as the lid will allow the steam to form 
water droplets that will fall back into the stock and stir it 
up again.
Store stock in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 
3 days or in the freezer for up to 4 months. You can divide it among 
several smaller containers, such as 2-cup (1-pint) sealed jars, then 
store in the freezer and grab only what you need.öööö15 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole FareCHICKEN STOCK
ONE POT
Chicken stock can be used for just about any dish. This recipe uses a 
whole 4-pound chicken, but if you have access to a chicken carcass, use 
about 5 pounds of bones. If using the whole chicken, cook it in the liquid 
for 1 hour, then remove and let cool, strip the meat, and put the bones 
back in the liquid to simmer for another hour.  MAKES 4 QUARTS
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  2 hours 15 minutes
1 (4-pound) whole 
chicken, rinsed and liver 
removed, or 5-pound 
chicken carcass
½ tablespoon whole 
black peppercorns
1 bay leaf
6 garlic cloves, halved
½ bunch fresh parsley
2 medium onions, skin 
on, quartered
4 or 5 celery stalks, 
cut into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 or 5 carrots, cut 
into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 quarts cool water1. In an 8-quart stockpot, place the chicken with the 
neck, heart, and gizzard.
2. Add the peppercorns, bay leaf, garlic, parsley, onions, 
celery, and carrots. Add the water. Bring to a strong 
simmer, then immediately reduce the heat to a slow 
simmer. Cook, uncovered, for 1 hour.
3. Using a slotted spoon or tongs, remove the chicken 
from the liquid and let cool. Remove and discard the 
skin, then remove the meat from the bones. (Reserve 
the meat for another use, such as chicken gumbo or 
chicken salad.) Put the bones back in the pot and 
simmer for 1 more hour.
4. Skim and discard any fat at the top of the stock.
5. Line a strainer with cheesecloth, and strain the stock 
into a large pot or bowl. Allow the stock to drip for 
several minutes. Discard the bones and vegetables.
6. Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up 
to 4 months.
STORAGE TIP: You can store the stock in one large container or 
several 1-pint containers so you can grab only what you need.16 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BEEF STOCK
ONE POT
Beef stock is essential for any beef or hearty sauce, gravy, or soup. It also 
adds great flavor to gumbo. This simple one-pot stock uses beef bones 
and typical stock ingredients, but it simmers for only 4 hours because 
the beef bones are cut in pieces and release the flavor much more 
quickly. (Larger bones take longer.) The recipe requires more water than 
the other stocks because the longer cooking time causes more liquid to 
 evaporate.  MAKES 4 QUARTS
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  4 hours 15 minutes
8 pounds beef bones, 
sawed into 2- to 
4-inch pieces
½ tablespoon whole 
black peppercorns
1 bay leaf
6 garlic cloves, halved
½ bunch fresh parsley
2 medium onions, skin 
on, quartered
4 or 5 celery stalks, 
cut into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 or 5 carrots, cut 
into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
6 quarts cool water1. In a 10-quart stockpot, place the beef bones, pep -
percorns, bay leaf, garlic, parsley, onions, celery, and 
carrots. Add the water. Bring to a running simmer, 
then reduce the heat to a slow simmer. Cook, uncov -
ered, for at least 4 hours (longer if you have time). 
2. Skim and discard any foam and fat at the top 
of the stock.
3. Line a strainer with cheesecloth and strain the stock 
into a large pot or bowl. Allow the stock to drip for 
several minutes. Discard the bones and vegetables.
4. Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up 
to 4 months.
STORAGE TIP: You can store the stock in one large container or 
several 1-pint containers so you can grab only what you need.
PREPARATION TIP: Traditionally beef stocks are simmered for 12 or 
more hours, but cutting the bones allows you to shorten the cook time.17 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole Fare
VEGETABLE STOCK
ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
A vegetable stock is a great alternative for vegan or vegetarian recipes. 
Any vegetable dish that calls for water is greatly enhanced by using veg-
etable stock in its place.  MAKES 4 QUARTS
PREP TIME:  25 minutes |  COOK TIME: 2 hours 15 minutes
½ tablespoon whole 
black peppercorns
1 bay leaf
6 garlic cloves, halved
½ bunch fresh parsley
1 bunch scallions,  
chopped
2 medium onions, skin 
on, quartered
4 or 5 celery stalks, 
cut into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 or 5 carrots, cut 
into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
8 ounces cabbage, 
chopped (about 2 cups)
2 large 
tomatoes, quartered
4 quarts cool water1. In an 8-quart stockpot, place the peppercorns, bay 
leaf, garlic, parsley, scallions, onions, celery, carrots, 
cabbage, and tomatoes. Add the water. Bring to a run-
ning simmer, then reduce the heat to a slow simmer. 
Cook, uncovered, for 2 hours. 
2. Skim and discard any foam and fat at the top 
of the stock.
3. Line a strainer with cheesecloth, and strain the stock 
into a large pot or bowl. Allow the stock to drip for 
several minutes. Discard the vegetables.
4. Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up 
to 4 months.
STORAGE TIP: You can store the stock in one large container or 
several 1-pint containers so you can grab only what you need.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can add any other vegetables, including 
eggplant, mushrooms, corncobs, bell peppers, chard, fresh herbs, 
greens, carrot tops, beet tops, radish tops, broccoli bottoms, and 
cauliflower cores.18 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
SEAFOOD STOCK
ONE POT
You can make seafood stock with the bones and heads of any freshwater  
or saltwater fish, including trout, cod, red snapper, pollock, haddock, 
perch, bass, tuna, flounder, and salmon, or any crustacean shells, such 
as shrimp, crabs, and lobster. For a truly rich seafood stock, use a mix of 
bones, heads, and shells. MAKES 4 quarts
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME: 1 hour 20 minutes
2 pounds fish bones and 
heads; shrimp, crab, or 
lobster shells; or a mix
1 cup white wine
½ tablespoon whole 
black peppercorns
1 bay leaf
6 garlic cloves, halved
½ bunch fresh parsley
2 medium onions, skin 
on, quartered
4 or 5 celery stalks, 
cut into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 or 5 carrots, cut 
into large pieces 
(about 2 cups)
4 quarts cool water1. In an 8-quart stockpot, place the fish bones and heads 
and seafood shells. Add the white wine. Bring to a low 
simmer, gently stir the bones and shells, and let the 
wine cook through the bones for 3 to 4 minutes.
2. Add the peppercorns, bay leaf, garlic, parsley, onions, 
celery, and carrots. Add the water. Bring to a running 
simmer, then reduce the heat to a low simmer. Cook, 
uncovered, for 1 hour. 
3. Skim and discard any foam and fat at the top 
of the stock.
4. Line a strainer with cheesecloth, and strain the stock 
into a large pot or bowl. Allow the stock to drip for 
several minutes. Discard the bones, heads, shells, 
and vegetables.
5. Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up 
to 4 months.
STORAGE TIP: You can store the stock in one large container or 
several 1-pint containers so you can grab only what you need.Spice Blends
Store-bought seasonings tend to sit in the pantry for months or 
even years, losing their pungency, fl  avor, and aroma. Making small 
batches of your own spice blends allows you to experiment with 
diff  erent fl  avor combinations and control the quality and shelf life. 
I use the following three spice blends most: Cajun spice blend is 
my all-around seasoning when I want a boost of fl  avor or for any 
highly spiced Cajun and Creole dishes; grill barbecue rub is perfect 
for grilling or roasting large cuts of meat or burgers and boneless 
chicken breasts; and I add Creole spice blend to gumbos, jamba-
laya, and many other recipes.
The common ingredients are ground pepper, onion powder, 
garlic powder, and salt. Mix up your spice blends and store them in 
the pantry. When you’re cooking, grab the one you need, measure 
it out, and add it to the dish. No need to measure out 10 spices for 
each recipe—just make the spice blend once and you’re set for a 
couple of months.
Be sure to keep your spice blends in airtight containers and 
store them in a cool, dry, draft-free location away from sunlight. 
Moisture, light, and heat will break down and destroy their 
delicate fl  avors.öööö20 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CAJUN SPICE BLEND
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
This blend works great for all the recipes in this book that call for it—and 
there are a lot! The trio of cayenne pepper, black pepper, and white 
pepper, combined with garlic powder, onion powder, and dry mustard, 
gives this seasoning the distinctive heat and flavor found in many Cajun 
dishes.  MAKES ¼ CUP
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
½ tablespoon 
cayenne pepper
½ tablespoon freshly 
ground black pepper
½ tablespoon 
white pepper
½ tablespoon 
garlic powder
½ tablespoon 
onion powder
½ tablespoon dry mustard
2 tablespoons kosher saltIn a medium bowl, combine the cayenne pepper, black 
pepper, white pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, dry 
mustard, and salt and stir until well mixed.
STORAGE TIP: Store in an airtight container or a mason jar with a 
screw-top lid. This blend will keep for several months in the pantry. 
Feel free to double or triple the recipe if you plan on using more than 
¼ cup within 2 months.
PREPARATION TIP: For a finer consistency, put all the ingredients 
in a food processor and pulse for a few seconds. Doing so also helps 
blend everything nicely.21 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole Fare
GRILL BARBECUE RUB
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
This recipe was inspired by an old Memphis-style rub I perfected a long 
time ago. I’ve modified it a bit over the years, but it still captures the 
same smoky richness I’ve always loved. The smoked paprika flavor is a 
perfect match for dark brown and white sugars. I use this blend for all 
my barbecues and roasts. It’s great with pork ribs, roasted chicken and 
turkey, hamburgers, pork shoulder roasts, pork loins, and chicken pieces.  
I even put it on popcorn and toss it around in a big bowl.  MAKES ½ CUP
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
½ tablespoon chili powder
½ tablespoon 
onion powder
½ tablespoon 
garlic powder
½ tablespoon celery seed
½ tablespoon 
ground cumin
½ tablespoon freshly 
ground black pepper
1 tablespoon 
smoked paprika
1 tablespoon dried thyme
2 tablespoons dark 
brown sugar
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar
1 tablespoon kosher saltIn a medium bowl, combine the chili powder, onion 
powder, garlic powder, celery seed, ground cumin, black 
pepper, smoked paprika, thyme, brown sugar, granulated 
sugar, and salt and stir until well mixed. If the sugar starts 
to clump, put all the ingredients in the food processor and 
pulse for several seconds to blend the spices and remove 
the lumps.
STORAGE TIP: Store in an airtight container or a mason jar with a 
screw-top lid. The rub will keep for several months in the pantry. Feel 
free to double or triple the recipe if you plan on using more than ¼ cup 
within two months.
PREPARATION TIP: Experiment with the recipe to suit your tastes. 
Try adding more sugar to enhance the sweetness or more black 
pepper if you want it spicier. If you’d like more salt, double the amount 
or add garlic salt. Celery salt might be the perfect complement for 
your palate. Keep a log of what you add, subtract, and modify, and 
note which combinations you like best.22 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CREOLE SPICE BLEND
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
This spice blend is the indispensable seasoning used in classic Creole 
dishes such as gumbo, étouffée, and jambalaya as well as many recipes  
in this cookbook. It’s a combination of black pepper, cayenne pepper, 
garlic powder, onion powder, basil, oregano, rosemary, thyme, dry 
mustard, paprika, and kosher salt. You should have it on hand at all 
times.  MAKES ½ CUP
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
½ tablespoon freshly 
ground black pepper
½ tablespoon 
cayenne pepper
½ tablespoon 
garlic powder
½ tablespoon 
onion powder
½ tablespoon dried basil
½ tablespoon 
dried oregano
½ tablespoon 
dried rosemary
½ tablespoon dried thyme
½ tablespoon dry mustard
1 tablespoon paprika
1 tablespoon kosher saltIn a medium bowl, combine the black pepper, cayenne 
pepper, garlic powder, onion powder, basil, oregano, rose -
mary, thyme, dry mustard, paprika, and salt and stir until 
well mixed.
STORAGE TIP: Store in an airtight container or a mason jar with a 
screw-top lid. The blend will keep for several months in the pantry. Feel 
free to double or triple the recipe if you plan on using more than ¼ cup 
within 2 months.Additional Items
You need a few more things for a well-stocked Cajun and Creole 
pantry, including the Cajun Trinity mixture of onions, celery, and 
bell peppers, which is included in many recipes in this book. I’ve 
also included my own fl  avorful version of Cocktail Sauce, a perfect 
accompaniment to boiled seafood. Most Cajuns love it with raw 
oysters or boiled shrimp.öööö24 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKTHE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CAJUN TRINITY
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
Typically comprising equal parts chopped onions, celery, and green bell 
peppers, the Cajun Trinity is an integral part of many Cajun and Creole 
recipes. You’ll find it in gumbos, étouffée, sauce piquantes, jambalayas, 
and a host of other dishes. Some variations call for adding chopped 
fresh parsley or garlic, but for the most part you’ll be using the iconic 
trio.  MAKES 3 CUPS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
1 cup chopped onion
1 cup chopped celery
1 cup chopped green 
bell pepperMix together the onions, celery, and bell peppers and 
store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 
4 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months. When you’re 
ready, grab what you need and sauté for about 10 minutes, 
depending on the recipe.
STORAGE TIP: Make larger batches of the Cajun Trinity and divide it 
into portions. Store in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or in the freezer 
for up to 4 months.
INGREDIENT TIP: The Cajun Trinity is a cousin of the French mire-
poix, which is two parts onion, one part celery, and one part carrots. 
Mirepoix is typically used to enhance flavor and is removed or strained 
out before serving. The Cajun Trinity, on the other hand, is kept in the 
preparation as an integral part of the dish.25 Foundations of Cajun and Creole FareFoundations of Cajun and Creole Fare
COCKTAIL SAUCE
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
I typically throw together cocktail sauce at the last minute before we 
sit down to a mess of boiled shrimp, freshly shucked oysters, or fried 
seafood. I usually just eyeball the measurements because the amount 
changes depending on how many people we have at the house. This 
recipe makes a small batch, but you can double or triple it if you’re host-
ing a large  gathering.  MAKES 2½ CUPS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
½ tablespoon hot sauce (I 
like Crystal Hot Sauce)
½ tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
1½ tablespoons 
prepared horseradish
1 cup ketchup
1 cup tomato-based 
chili sauceIn a medium bowl, combine the hot sauce, Worcestershire 
sauce, lemon juice, horseradish, ketchup, and chili sauce 
and stir until well mixed. Transfer to a bowl and serve 
immediately.
STORAGE TIP: If you want to make this sauce ahead of time, store in 
an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
INGREDIENT TIP: If the amount of horseradish is too much for your 
liking, add more ketchup to offset the heat.27CHAPTER 3
Small Plates  
and Appetizers
Crawfish Cakes 28
Jalapeño Poppers 30
Creole Salsa  31
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat  
and Creole Salsa  32
Black-and-Blue Chicken  
on Basil Toast  33Crawfish Cucumber Imperial  35
Deviled Eggs 36
Red, White, and Blue Hummus 37
Boudin Sausage Balls 38
Appetizers are all about presentation. You can start a dinner, celebration, or 
party with individual plates for a formal sit-down meal or on platters for 
a more relaxed setting. This chapter shares several of my favorite small 
plates and appetizers, including Jalapeño Poppers, crabmeat-filled Avocado Boats, 
a fun variation on the classic Black-and-Blue Chicken sandwich, spicy Deviled Eggs, 
and breaded Boudin Sausage Balls with mustard dipping sauce. No matter how 
you serve them, these starters will kick off your celebration with a bang.
Crawfish Cucumber Imperial, page 3528 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CRAWFISH CAKES
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE
These cakes are similar to traditional crab cakes but substitute crawfish 
tail meat, which is typically less expensive than lump crabmeat. Sautéing 
the Cajun Trinity with the Cajun Spice Blend releases flavor and reduces 
the crunch. Of the many hot sauce brands on the market, my favorite 
is the New Orleans homegrown brand Crystal Hot Sauce.  MAKES 8 CAKES
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
1 cup Cajun Trinity 
(page 24)
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons 
minced garlic
1/4 cup chopped scallions
1 pound crawfish tail meat
2 tablespoons Creole 
mustard (I like 
Zatarain’s), plus more 
for serving
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)
1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg, beaten
1½ cups Italian bread 
crumbs, divided1. In a medium sauté pan, melt 1 tablespoon of unsalted 
butter over medium heat. Add the Cajun Trinity 
and Cajun spice blend and cook, stirring, until soft 
and translucent, about 5 minutes. Stir in the garlic 
and scallions and cook for about 2 more minutes, just 
to release some of the garlic flavor. Remove from the 
heat and let cool to room temperature.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the crawfish, Creole mus-
tard, Worcestershire sauce, hot sauce, lemon juice, 
mayonnaise, egg, and 1⁄2 cup of bread crumbs. Add the 
Cajun Trinity and stir well to combine.
3. Divide the mixture into 8 equal portions and form 
them into round 1-inch-thick cakes. Gently roll the 
cakes in the remaining 1 cup of bread crumbs. 29 Small Plates and Appetizers 
4. In a medium sauté pan, melt the remaining 
1 tablespoon of butter over medium heat. Cook the 
cakes in two batches of four for 3 to 4 minutes on 
each side, or until brown. Serve immediately with a 
side of Creole mustard.
STORAGE TIP: If you want to start this recipe ahead of time, stop at 
the end of step 2, cover the mixture, and refrigerate for up to 2 days. 
You can also shape the cakes, coat them in the bread crumbs, cover, 
and refrigerate for up to 2 days. Either way, pick up at step 3.
PREPARATION TIP: If you want to try a slightly lighter version, 
eliminate the butter and bake the crawfish cakes instead. Preheat the 
oven to 425°F. Coat a baking sheet with nonstick spray and space the 
crawfish cakes evenly on the sheet. Bake for 10 minutes, flip, and bake 
for 10 more minutes, or until browned.30 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
JALAPEÑO POPPERS
One of my favorite hot appetizers, these poppers are delicious, quick, 
and easy to prepare in a single, small baking sheet. The large shrimp are 
tossed with Grill Barbecue Rub before being stuffed into the jalapeños 
with the cream cheese mixture. Add a water chestnut, wrap the whole 
thing in a slice of bacon, and voilà. You can cook the poppers in the oven 
or grill over indirect heat until the bacon is crispy.  MAKES 16 POPPERS
PREP TIME:  25 minutes |  COOK TIME:  30 minutes
8 fresh jalapeños, sliced 
lengthwise and seeded
16 shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
1 tablespoon Grill 
Barbecue Rub plus  
½ tablespoon (page 21)
8 ounces cream 
cheese, softened
4 ounces shredded 
Colby cheese
1 can water 
chestnuts, drained
1 pound bacon, sliced1. Place the jalapeños on a baking sheet and set aside.
2. Coat the shrimp with 1 tablespoon of barbecue rub 
and toss well, then set aside. 
3. Preheat the oven to 375°F or turn on one side of your 
grill for indirect heat.
4. Place the cream cheese in a medium bowl. Fold in 
the Colby cheese and remaining 1 ⁄2½ tablespoon of 
barbecue rub until fully incorporated.
5. Stuff the jalapeños with the cheese mixture, then 
top each with 1 water chestnut and 1 shrimp. Stretch 
out a slice of bacon, then wrap it around one 
stuffed jalapeño. Repeat with the remaining bacon 
and jalapeños.
6. Place in the oven or on the grill. Cook for 30 minutes, 
or until the bacon is crispy. Transfer to a platter and 
serve immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: You can prepare the jalapeño poppers ahead of time 
through the bacon-wrap step, then cover the baking sheet with plastic 
wrap or aluminum foil and store in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.31 Small Plates and Appetizers 
CREOLE SALSA
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, VEGETARIAN
This chunky salsa offers mild heat with the addition of green 
chiles.  MAKES 4 CUPS
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
1 bunch cilantro leaves, 
coarsely chopped
8 garlic cloves
½ tablespoon Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
½ tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
Juice of 1 lime
1 teaspoon garlic salt
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 jalapeño peppers, sliced
½ cup chopped scallions
1 medium red onion, cut 
into large chunks
4 Roma tomatoes, cut 
into large chunks
1 (4½-ounce) can diced 
green chiles
1 cup crushed tomatoes
1 cup tomato-based 
chili sauce1. Place the cilantro and garlic in a food processor and 
finely chop. 
2. Add the Creole spice blend, Worcestershire sauce, 
lime juice, garlic salt, olive oil, jalapeños, scallions, 
red onions, tomatoes, and green chiles. Pulse several 
times, until the tomatoes and onion are coarsely 
chopped and all the ingredients are well mixed. 
3. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl, then add 
the crushed tomatoes and chili sauce. Stir well to 
incorporate. 
4. Transfer the salsa to a bowl and serve with tortilla 
chips, vegetable chips, or your favorite dipper.
STORAGE TIP: Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 5 days. (It has never lasted that long in our house!)
INGREDIENT TIP: This salsa is perfect as a chilled dip, but it’s also 
great heated up and served warm as a sauce, particularly over fried or 
poached eggs or grilled tuna or swordfish.32 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
AVOCADO BOATS WITH CRABMEAT  
AND CREOLE SALSA
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT
This appetizer is quick and easy to put together with fresh avocados, 
lump crabmeat, and a sprinkling of Cajun Spice Blend. It’s an adaptation 
of an entrée-size recipe of halved avocados topped with crabmeat stuff-
ing and freshly grated Parmesan cheese, baked in the oven, and served 
piping hot.  MAKES 16 BOATS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
4 avocados
½ pound lump crabmeat
½ cup Creole Salsa 
(page 31)
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)1. Cut each avocado in half lengthwise, remove the pit, 
and cut each half lengthwise again. Repeat with the 
remaining avocados until you have 16 avocado boats.
2. Place 1 tablespoon of crabmeat in the center of each 
avocado boat, then top with 1 ⁄2 tablespoon of Creole 
salsa. Arrange the boats on a serving platter and 
sprinkle evenly with the Cajun spice blend. Serve 
immediately.
PREPARATION TIP: You cannot make these ahead of time, but if 
you do need to prep them before serving, sprinkle a bit of fresh lemon 
juice over the avocado. Doing so will help prevent oxidizing, which 
makes the avocado turn brown and mushy. 33 Small Plates and Appetizers CONTINUED >BLACK-AND-BLUE CHICKEN  
ON BASIL TOAST
30 MINUTES
This dish was originally served as a sandwich called Blackened and Blue 
Chicken at the City Energy Club (CEC) in New Orleans in the 1990s. 
This appetizer version replaces the original bun with French bread toast 
rounds and adds fresh basil paste.  SERVES 16
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
FOR THE SANDWICHES
1 loaf French bread, cut 
into 1-inch rounds
1½ pounds boneless, 
skinless chicken breasts
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1 cup basil paste
½ cup store-bought blue 
cheese dressingTO MAKE THE SANDWICHES
1. Place the bread on a baking sheet and set aside. Place 
a large cast-iron skillet over high heat and let it get hot.
2. Slice the chicken breasts in half lengthwise to get two 
thin pieces each. Brush them all over with the olive oil, 
then lightly sprinkle them with the Cajun spice blend.
3. Working in batches, place four pieces of chicken in the 
skillet and cook for 5 to 6 minutes, or until the edges 
turn opaque or white. Flip and cook for 5 more min-
utes. Transfer the cooked chicken to a platter. Repeat 
with the remaining chicken. Let sit at least 5 minutes, 
then cut into 1 ⁄2-inch-thick slices. Keep the skillet 
over high heat.
4. Using a rubber spatula, coat both sides of the bread 
with the basil paste. Working in batches, place the 
bread in the hot skillet and cook for 2 to 3 minutes on 
each side, or until brown and crusty. Repeat with the 
remaining bread.
5. Transfer the bread to a serving platter. Place sev -
eral pieces of the chicken on each slice of bread. 
Top with 1 teaspoon of blue cheese dressing. Serve 
immediately.
INGREDIENTS 
CONTINUED >34 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKBLACK -AND-BLUE C HICKEN ON B ASIL T OAST  CONTINUED
FOR THE BASIL PASTE
2 cups fresh basil leaves
1/4 cup minced garlic
1 cup olive oil
½ cup freshly shredded 
Parmesan cheese
1 teaspoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)TO MAKE THE BASIL PASTE
Place the basil, garlic, olive oil, Parmesan cheese, and 
 Cajun spice blend in a food processor and pulse until the 
mixture has a smooth paste consistency. Use  immediately. 
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator 
for up to 5 days.
INGREDIENT TIP: You can season the chicken and marinate it ahead 
of time. Store in the refrigerator in an airtight container for several 
hours or overnight.35 Small Plates and Appetizers 
CRAWFISH CUCUMBER IMPERIAL
30 MINUTES
This cold appetizer, which can be prepared several hours in advance 
of serving, is a perfect way to enjoy crawfish tails in a spicy salad on a 
cucumber round. You can use jumbo lump crabmeat instead of crawfish 
or shrimp. I prefer Zatarain’s Creole mustard because of its unique and 
vibrant flavor.  SERVES 16
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
Parchment paper
2 large cucumbers, cut 
into 1-inch-thick rounds
1 pound crawfish tail meat 
or 1 pound medium-size 
shrimp, boiled 
and chilled
1 tablespoon 
Creole mustard (I 
like Zatarain’s)
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh parsley
½ cup mayonnaise
2 scallions, chopped
1 cup Cajun Trinity, finely 
diced (page 24)
Parsley sprigs, for 
garnish (optional)
Grape tomato wedges, for 
garnish (optional)1. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or plastic 
wrap. Using a melon baller or a teaspoon, scoop out 
a well from each cucumber round without cutting 
through the bottom. Place the rounds on the pre -
pared baking sheet and set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the crawfish, Creole 
 mustard, Cajun spice blend, parsley, mayonnaise, 
 scallions, and Cajun Trinity and stir well. 
3. Top each cucumber round with about 1 tablespoon of 
crawfish salad. Transfer to a cold platter, garnish with 
parsley sprigs and tomato wedges (if using), and serve 
immediately.
STORAGE TIP: You can make the filling ahead of time and store it in 
a covered bowl in the refrigerator for several hours, or until ready to 
stuff the cucumbers. You can also prepare the entire dish and store on 
a baking sheet in the refrigerator for up to 8 hours.
PREPARATION TIP: If you don’t like a wet filling, drain the craw -
fish or shrimp in a colander for 10 minutes before mixing with the 
other ingredients.36 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
DEVILED EGGS
30 MINUTES
Cajun spice adds tang to these deviled eggs, but it’s balanced with the  
cream cheese and mayonnaise. The filling is piped into the boiled egg 
whites from a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip and topped with olives 
and a dash of paprika. Always a treat on the holidays, these deviled eggs 
are also the perfect finger food for any occasion.  MAKES 12 DEVILED EGGS
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
6 large eggs
3 cups ice water bath
1 teaspoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1 tablespoon 
Creole mustard (I 
like Zatarain’s)
1 tablespoon sweet 
pickle relish
1/4 cup mayonnaise
4 ounces cream 
cheese, softened
6 queen olives, cut in 
half horizontally
½ teaspoon paprika1. Place the eggs in a large saucepan and cover with 
cool water. Bring to a boil over high heat and cook 
for 10 minutes. Set up the ice water bath.
2. Drain the hot water, then gently place the eggs in 
the ice water bath. Let sit until completely cooled, 
about 10 minutes.
3. Peel the eggs, then cut them in half lengthwise. 
Remove the yolks and place them in a food proces-
sor. Place the whites on a large plate and store in the 
refrigerator.
4. Add the Cajun spice blend, Creole mustard, relish, 
mayonnaise, and cream cheese to the food processor. 
Process until smooth and well incorporated, ensuring 
no lumps remain. 
5. Transfer the filling to a pastry bag fitted with a large 
star tip. Remove the egg whites from the refrigerator. 
Pipe the filling into each egg white, creating a nice 
circular pattern. 
6. Place one olive round on the center of each egg, then 
lightly dust paprika over the top before serving.
SIMPLIFY IT: You can make this a day ahead. Store leftovers in the 
refrigerator, covered, for up to 3 days.37 Small Plates and Appetizers 
RED, WHITE, AND BLUE HUMMUS
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, GLUTEN-FREE, VEGETARIAN
Red kidney beans, white cannelloni beans, and blue corn chips come 
together in a flash to create this easy, delicious hummus. With Creole 
Spice Blend, it’s almost like fireworks on your palate.  MAKES 4 CUPS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
1 (15½-ounce) can red 
kidney beans
1 (15½-ounce) can white 
cannelloni beans
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 tablespoon Creole Spice 
Blend (page 22)
1/4 cup freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
½ cup tahini
1 bag blue corn chips1. Strain the kidney and cannelloni beans over one 
 container. Reserve 1 cup of the mixed liquid.
2. Put the kidney and cannelloni beans, reserved liquid, 
garlic, Creole spice blend, lemon juice, and tahini in a 
food processor and blend until smooth and creamy.
3. Transfer to a serving platter and serve immediately 
with the blue corn chips. Store in an airtight container 
in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: Instead of blue corn chips, you can serve this 
hummus with vegetable chips or fresh vegetables such as cucumber 
slices, carrot sticks, celery sticks, broccoli or cauliflower florets, or 
grape tomatoes.38 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BOUDIN SAUSAGE BALLS
30 MINUTES
Boudin sausage balls are coated, breaded, and deep fried or roasted 
in the oven, and served with Creole mustard. Boudin means sausage in 
French. Cajun boudin is typically a white sausage, or boudin blanc, that 
consists of pork meat, pork liver, white rice, the Cajun Trinity, and a variety 
of spices stuffed into hog casing. Boudin is hard to find outside Louisiana, 
but you can order it online (see Resources, page 88) or make your own. 
The recipe I’ve included here will add about 90 minutes to your prep and 
cook times than if you use store-bought.  MAKES 20 SAUSAGE BALLS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
FOR THE SAUSAGE BALLS
½ teaspoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)
½ tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons cool water
2 large eggs, 
lightly beaten
1½ cups Italian 
bread crumbs
1½ pounds raw boudin, 
removed from 
the casing
2 quarts peanut oil
1 cup Creole mustard  
(I like Zatarain’s)TO MAKE THE SAUSAGE BALLS
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the hot sauce, 
Cajun spice blend, cool water, and eggs. Place 
the bread crumbs in another medium bowl. Roll 
the boudin into 20 ping-pong-size balls, about 
1 ounce each.
2. In a large stock pot or Dutch oven, heat the peanut 
oil over medium heat until a deep fryer thermometer 
reads 350°F.
3. Dip each boudin ball in the egg mixture, then roll 
in the bread crumbs, coating evenly. Fry the balls in 
small batches (about 5 per batch) for 3 to 4 minutes 
each, or until light brown.
4. Drain on a plate lined with paper towels, transfer 
to a serving platter, and serve immediately with the 
Creole mustard.39 Small Plates and Appetizers 
FOR THE BOUDIN
2 cups cool water
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup short-grain rice
1 pound pork shoulder, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
½ pound pork liver, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1 quart water
1½ cups Cajun 
Trinity (page 24), 
coarsely chopped
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
4 tablespoons chopped 
fresh parsley 
leaves, divided
4 tablespoons chopped 
scallions, dividedTO MAKE THE BOUDIN
1. In a small saucepan, bring the water and salt to a boil. 
Add the rice, reduce the heat to low, and simmer for 
about 20 minutes, or until the rice is cooked. Transfer 
the rice to a large bowl and let cool.
2. In a large 3-quart stock pot, place the pork shoul -
der, pork liver, water, Cajun Trinity, Cajun spice 
blend, 2 tablespoons of parsley, and 2 tablespoons 
of scallions. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to 
a simmer and cook for about 1 hour, or until the pork 
shoulder and liver are tender. Remove from the heat 
and drain the liquid, reserving about 1 cup.
3. Transfer the mixture, plus the remaining 
2 tablespoons of parsley and 2 tablespoons of 
scallions, to a food processor. Pulse until coarsely 
chopped. Transfer to the bowl of rice and mix well.
4. Mix in the reserved liquid, about 1 ⁄3 cup at a 
time, until the boudin is moist and holds together 
when squeezed.
STORAGE TIP: If making your own boudin, you can roll out the balls 
and store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for several days or 
in the freezer for up to 4 months.
INGREDIENT TIP: If you don’t like pork liver, substitute ½ pound of 
pork shoulder.41CHAPTER 4
Classic Cajun and 
Creole Mains
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo 42
Blackened Fish 44
Slow Cooker Red Beans 45
Crawfish Bisque 46
Coq Au Vin 47
New Orleans Seafood Chowder 48
Oyster Artichoke Soup  49
Turkey Creole Skillet  50
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits 51Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with 
Cajun Artichoke Beurre Blanc 52
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice 55
Shrimp Étouffée 56
Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed 
Salmon with Pecans 57
Smothered Pork Chops 58
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers 59
Cajun and Creole recipes cook best in big pots, and most of the recipes 
in this chapter require only one. I’ve included a few soups, like Crawfish 
Bisque, New Orleans Seafood Chowder, and Oyster Artichoke Soup as 
well as Blackened Fish, the dish Paul Prudhomme made famous. You’ll also find 
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with Cajun Artichoke Beurre Blanc, Turkey Creole 
Skillet, Smothered Pork Chops, Shrimp Stuffed Bell Peppers, Honey and Creole 
Mustard-Glazed Salmon, and more. These dishes will have everyone at the table 
clamoring for seconds.
Coq au Vin, page 4742 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
SHRIMP AND OKRA GUMBO
DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT
There must be as many variations of gumbo as there are folks who make 
their own. This version uses the traditional shrimp and okra base. The 
gumbo filé powder is mixed with a little cool water to form a slurry, which 
keeps the powder from forming clumps. You can modify the recipe to 
add any protein, depending on the season and availability, such as andou-
ille sausage, Tasso ham, chicken, oysters, and even duck.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
½ cup Dark Roux 
(page 13)
1½ cups Cajun Trinity, 
diced large (page 24)
½ tablespoon Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
1 tablespoon 
minced garlic
64 ounces (½ gallon) 
Chicken Stock (page 15)
1 cup diced tomatoes
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
½ tablespoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)
½ pound okra, sliced  
½-inch thick
1 tablespoon gumbo 
filé powder
1/4 cup cool water1. In a 4-quart stockpot, cook the dark roux over 
medium heat until it just starts to bubble. Add the 
Cajun Trinity and Creole spice blend, and cook, 
 stirring well, until softened.
2. Add the garlic and continue to cook for a few min-
utes. Add the chicken stock, tomatoes, bay leaf, 
Worcestershire sauce, and hot sauce, and bring 
to a boil. Reduce the heat to a simmer. Add the 
okra and stir well. Bring back to a simmer until 
the okra is cooked. 
3. In a small mixing bowl, combine the gumbo filé 
powder and cool water and whisk into a slurry, until 
the powder has dissolved. Fold the slurry into the 
gumbo. Simmer for a few more minutes, until well 
incorporated.43 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
½ pound shrimp, 21 to 
30 count
1 cup diced scallions
Kosher salt
White pepper
Steamed white rice, 
for serving4. Gently fold in the shrimp and scallions and simmer 
for 5 minutes, until the shrimp are pink and heated 
through. Season with salt and white pepper to taste. 
To serve, ladle 1½ cup per serving in large soup bowls 
along with the steamed white rice.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: If you want to add sausage or Tasso ham, slice 
or dice it, cook down a few minutes, and add with the Cajun Trinity 
(page 24) in step 1. If you want to add chicken or duck, roast about 
1 pound, let cool, peel off the skin, remove the meat from the bone, 
cube the meat, and add with the shrimp in step 4. Add raw oysters 
with the shrimp in step 4.44 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BLACKENED FISH
30 MINUTES, DAIRY-FREE, GLUTEN-FREE
To get a really good blackening on your fish, use a very hot cast-iron 
skillet or griddle. But beware: Blackening in a skillet can produce a lot 
of smoke. Countless times I’ve set off the alarm! Unless you have a very 
good vent hood exhaust system in your kitchen, it’s best to use your out-
door grill to get the heat you want for this recipe.  SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
4 (4- to 6-ounce) 
catfish fillets
½ cup peanut oil
2 tablespoons Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 teaspoons garlic salt1. Prepare the grill with about 5 pounds of charcoal and 
heat until the coals are white, or preheat the gas grill 
to high. Place a cast-iron griddle or skillet over the 
coals or gas burner for 20 minutes, until it is very hot.
2. Meanwhile, coat the catfish fillets with the peanut oil, 
then sprinkle with Cajun spice blend and garlic salt 
on both sides. Marinate for 20 minutes.
3. Cook for 5 minutes, until white, then flip and cook for 
5 more minutes, until flaky. Serve immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: You can prep this recipe the night before. Combine the 
peanut oil and Cajun Spice Blend in a large zip-top bag, then add the 
catfish fillets. Seal the bag tightly, toss the catfish in the mixture, and 
marinate overnight in the refrigerator. When you’re ready to cook, heat 
the grill and pick up with step 3.45 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
SLOW COOKER RED BEANS
DAIRY-FREE, ONE POT
You can find red beans and rice in just about every mom-and-pop corner 
grocery, deli, or lunch counter in New Orleans. It’s also a staple in diners, 
cafés, and buffet lines. Back in the day, Monday was for laundry, and 
because it was an arduous task without modern appliances, home cooks 
usually put on a big pot of red beans and let them cook slowly with little 
supervision. This recipe is easy to double, and it tastes even better the 
next day. It also freezes beautifully.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME: 8 hours 30 minutes
1 pound red kidney beans
1 pound smoked sausage, 
cut into 1/4-inch rounds
3 cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24)
1 tablespoon minced garlic
4 cups Beef Stock 
(page 16)
1 tablespoon Creole Spice 
Blend (page 22)
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
½ tablespoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)1. Set a slow cooker to the highest setting. Place the 
beans, sausage, Cajun Trinity, garlic, beef stock, 
Creole spice blend, bay leaf, Worcestershire sauce, 
and hot sauce in the slow cooker, stir well, and cover. 
Be sure there is enough stock to cover all the ingredi -
ents, and add more if needed.
2. Once the slow cooker starts to simmer, reduce the 
heat to low and cook for 7 hours.
3. Remove the cover and stir well. Use the back of a 
spoon to mash some of the beans against the inside 
of the slow cooker, which helps them thicken. Cook 
on medium-low heat for 1 more hour so the beans can 
thicken even more before serving.
VARIATION TIP: You can make this meal vegan by using vegan red 
beans, Vegetable Stock (page 17), and vegan sausage in place of the 
beef stock and smoked sausage.46 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CRAWFISH BISQUE
My in-laws handed down this recipe, which I’ve turned into a creamy 
one-pot soup. Crawfish are in peak season in May.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  40 minutes
3 cups Cajun 
Trinity (page 24), 
coarsely diced
4 garlic cloves
10 parsley sprigs
1 cup Blond Roux 
(page 12)
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons 
tomato paste
2 quarts Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
2 pounds crawfish tail 
meat, divided
1 cup heavy cream
½ cup brandy
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon 
cayenne pepper1. Place the Cajun Trinity, garlic, and parsley in a food 
processor and grind until the ingredients are smooth. 
In a 4-quart stockpot, heat the blond roux over 
medium heat, stirring, until it darkens slightly. Add 
the garlic mixture and Cajun spice blend and cook on 
low heat, stirring frequently, for 10 minutes, or until 
the mixture is soft and the onions from the Cajun 
Trinity are translucent.
2. Add the tomato paste, stir, and simmer for 3 minutes.
3. Add the seafood stock and stir well, until fully incor -
porated into the roux mixture. Increase the heat to 
medium and bring to a boil, then reduce the heat 
to a simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally. The 
bisque should start to thicken as it simmers.
4. In the food processor, grind 1 pound of crawfish 
into a smooth paste. Add the crawfish paste to the 
bisque and continue to simmer. Add the heavy cream, 
brandy, and remaining crawfish. Stir well to incorpo -
rate. Simmer for 5 minutes, then stir in the salt and 
cayenne pepper. Serve in soup bowls.
INGREDIENT TIP: A loaf of warmed French bread cut into 2-inch 
rounds is a great accompaniment to this rich bisque.47 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
COQ AU VIN
ONE POT
Coq au vin means chicken with wine, and this classic dish, with its 
rustic form and refined preparation, is typically served over steamed 
rice. Although coq  is rooster, this version calls for boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts, which require less cooking time than a whole bone-in 
chicken.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME: 1 hour 10 minutes
8 (4-ounce) boneless, 
skinless chicken breasts
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
4 tablespoons (½ stick) 
butter, divided
1/4 cup brandy, divided
½ pound 
mushrooms, sliced
1 cup diced onions
1 tablespoon minced garlic
3 tablespoons 
all-purpose flour
1/4 cup tomato sauce
1/4 cup diced pimentos
1 cup dry red wine (try 
Burgundy or Merlot)
1½ cups Chicken Stock 
(page 15)
1/4 cup chopped scallions
Steamed rice, for serving1. Season the chicken all over with Cajun spice 
blend. In a large sauté pan or cast-iron skillet, melt 
1 tablespoon of butter over medium heat. Add four 
chicken breasts and cook until browned on all 
sides. Add 2 tablespoons of brandy and allow it to 
simmer. Transfer the chicken to a platter. Repeat with 
1 tablespoon of butter and the remaining four chicken 
breasts and 2 tablespoons of brandy.
2. In the same pan, melt the remaining 2 tablespoons of 
butter over medium heat. Add the mushrooms and 
onions and cook, stirring well, until slightly browned. 
Add the garlic and cook, stirring, for just 1 minute. 
Add the flour and stir well, until mixed evenly with 
the mushroom and onions. Cook for about 3 minutes.
3. Add the tomato sauce, pimentos, red wine, and 
chicken stock. Bring the liquid to a simmer for about 
5 minutes, then add the chicken, spacing it evenly in 
the pan. Cover and simmer for 30 minutes.
4. When the chicken is tender, transfer the chicken and 
sauce to a serving dish and garnish with the scallions. 
Serve with a side of steamed rice.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: The traditional French recipe uses pearl onions. 
If you want to substitute them, use 1¾ cups because they take up more 
space in a volume measurement.48 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
NEW ORLEANS SEAFOOD CHOWDER
ONE POT
I created and served this recipe many times while chef at Elmwood 
Medical Center in Jefferson, Louisiana. The recipe, which has a base of 
seafood stock and tomatoes, is a variation of a Manhattan-style chowder,  
but it also includes chunks of catfish, large shrimp, oysters, and crab 
claws.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
3 cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24), diced large
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1 tablespoon tomato paste
4 cups Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
1 (8-ounce) bottle 
clam juice
1 tablespoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
5 cups diced tomatoes
1½ cups diced small 
red potatoes
½ pound catfish 
fillets, cubed
½ pound shrimp
1 pint raw oysters
1 pound crab claws1. In a large 4-quart stockpot, melt the butter over 
medium heat. Add the Cajun Trinity and Cajun spice 
blend and cook for 5 minutes, stirring frequently, 
until soft and translucent. Add the tomato paste and 
stir well, until evenly incorporated. Cook for about 
1 minute.
2. Add the seafood stock, clam juice, hot sauce, 
Worcestershire sauce, tomatoes, and potatoes, and 
stir well. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to low 
and simmer for about 20 minutes.
3. Add the catfish, shrimp, and oysters, and simmer for 
5 to 7 minutes, or until the shrimp are pink and the 
oysters are curled. Fold in the crab claws and cook for 
1 more minute. Serve immediately in large soup bowls.
SIMPLIFY IT: If you want to save time dicing the fresh tomatoes, 
substitute 3 (15-ounce) cans of diced plum tomatoes.49 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
OYSTER ARTICHOKE SOUP
ONE POT
A perennial New Orleans favorite, this soup uses reserved liquid from 
the oysters, called oyster liquor, as do most recipes that call for oysters, 
such as oyster stew, oyster gumbo, and oysters in cream sauce. Artichoke 
hearts, seafood stock, heavy cream, and a blond roux make the soup 
rich.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  35 minutes
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
unsalted butter
3 cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24)
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1/4 cup minced garlic
1 cup chopped 
scallions, divided
½ cup all-purpose flour
3 cans artichoke hearts, 
drained, divided
3 pints raw oysters, liquor 
reserved, divided
4 cups Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
2 cups heavy cream
Kosher salt
White pepper1. In a 4-quart stockpot, melt the butter over medium 
heat. Add the Cajun Trinity and Cajun spice blend, 
stir well, and cook for 5 minutes, or until translucent. 
Add the garlic and 1 ⁄2 cup of scallions, and stir well. 
Cook for 2 minutes.
2. Add the flour and stir well to make a blond roux. 
 Continue to stir and cook for 3 to 5 minutes.
3. Add 1 1 ⁄2 cans of the artichoke hearts and 1 1 ⁄2 pints 
of the  oysters, stir well, and cook until the oysters are 
curled on the edges. Let cool a few minutes. Transfer 
to a food processor and blend until smooth, then 
transfer back to the stockpot.
4. Add the seafood stock, reserved oyster liquor, and 
Worcestershire sauce. Using a wire whisk, whisk into a 
smooth consistency. Bring to a simmer over medium 
heat, then add the remaining 1 1 ⁄2 cans of artichoke 
hearts, remaining 1 1 ⁄2 pints of raw oysters, and the 
heavy cream. Continue to simmer for 5 to 8 minutes. 
Add the remaining 1 ⁄2 cup of chopped scallions, 
then season with salt and white pepper to taste 
before serving.
INGREDIENT TIP: In step 2 you are adding the flour to make a blond 
roux, but if you have Blond Roux (page 12) on hand, add ½ cup instead 
to save a bit of time.50 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
TURKEY CREOLE SKILLET
GLUTEN-FREE, ONE POT
This recipe was born when I was putting together a quick lunch dish of 
ground turkey and vegetables seasoned with Creole flavors. I added red 
pepper flakes for some extra heat. Sour cream will curdle if you add it 
directly to a hot dish, so temper it first (see the Ingredient Tip).  SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  35 minutes
1 tablespoon 
unsalted butter
1 pound ground 
turkey meat
1 cup finely diced onions
½ pound  
mushrooms, sliced
2 cups diced tomatoes
3 cups diced eggplant
1 cup tomato-based 
chili sauce
1½ tablespoons Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
½ teaspoon ground ginger
½ teaspoon celery salt
4 cups fresh baby spinach
1 cup sour cream, 
tempered (see 
Ingredient Tip)
1 teaspoon red pepper 
flakes (optional)1. In a large saucepan or cast-iron skillet, melt the 
butter. Add the turkey and cook until most of the pink 
is gone. Add the onions and cook until soft.
2. Add the mushrooms and cook until browned. Add 
the tomatoes, eggplant, chili sauce, Creole spice 
blend, ginger, and celery salt. Stir well. Cover and 
simmer over medium heat for 10 minutes.
3. Add the spinach and fold in until just wilted. Turn off 
the heat and gently fold in the tempered sour cream 
until incorporated.
4. To serve, portion into four bowls and add the red 
pepper flakes (if using).
VARIATION TIP: If you want to turn this dish into a curry, add 
1 tablespoon of curry powder and 1 teaspoon of turmeric with the 
Creole Spice Blend in step 2.
INGREDIENT TIP: Tempering a cold ingredient gradually increases 
its temperature so it doesn’t change composition when added to the 
dish. If you put the sour cream directly in the hot pan, it will curdle. 
To temper it, place the sour cream in a medium heatproof bowl. 
While the mixture is simmering in step 2, add a spoonful of the hot 
liquid to the sour cream and whisk to combine. Repeat twice. When 
you fold in the tempered sour cream, do so slowly and gently.51 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
SHRIMP, SAUSAGE, AND GRITS
30 MINUTES
This recipe is an adaptation of the original shrimp and grits recipes you 
will find all along the Gulf Coast and Eastern Shore. Andouille sausage 
elevates the dish..  SERVES 6
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  20 minutes
4 cups Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
1 cup grits (instant 
or 5-minute)
½ pound Jarlsberg 
cheese or Swiss cheese, 
grated, divided
1 pound andouille or 
smoked sausage, cut 
into ½-inch cubes
4 tablespoons (½ stick) 
unsalted butter
1 pound button 
mushrooms, sliced
1 cup finely chopped 
scallions (white and 
green parts), divided
4 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup dry white wine
1 pound shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
½ tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1/4 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese1. In a 2-quart saucepan, bring the seafood stock to a 
simmer over medium heat. Stir in the grits and bring 
to boil, then simmer, stirring occasionally, for 5 to 
7 minutes. Fold in 1 ⁄4 pound or half of the Jarlsberg 
cheese and allow it to melt into the grits. Cover and 
set aside.
2. In a large sauté pan, cook the sausage on all sides 
over medium heat, until browned. Transfer to a plate 
lined with paper towels. In the same pan, melt the 
butter, then add the mushrooms, ½3 ⁄4 cup of scallions, 
and the garlic and cook for 3 to 4 more minutes. Add 
the white wine, reduce the heat, and simmer for 1 to 
2 minutes. Gently add the shrimp and the Cajun 
spice blend and stir well.
3. Fold in the sausage and stir in the remaining 
1⁄4 pound of Jarlsberg cheese until well combined.
4. Sprinkle the remaining ½1 ⁄4 cup of scallions and the 
Parmesan cheese evenly over the top.
5. Divide the grits evenly among 6 plates, then spoon 
the shrimp and sausage sauce evenly over the grits. 
Serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP: After cutting the andouille sausage, pat dry the 
cubes with paper towels before adding them to the pan. This helps 
them brown quickly and more evenly.52 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
PECAN-CRUSTED CHICKEN BREASTS WITH 
CAJUN ARTICHOKE BEURRE BLANC
This mouthwatering dish features goat-cheese-stuffed boneless chicken 
breasts coated with a pecan Cajun-spiced crust and served with zesty 
artichoke hearts in a creamy sauce. Beurre blanc’s main  ingredient is 
room-temperature butter, preferably unsalted. This version is made 
with minced shallots and a white wine reduction. It’s a delicate but 
magnificent sauce that pairs perfectly with the pecan-crusted chicken 
breast.  MAKES 4 PORTIONS
PREP TIME:  30 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
FOR THE CHICKEN
Plastic wrap
4 boneless 
chicken breasts
8 ounces goat cheese, cut 
into 4 even pieces
½ teaspoon kosher 
salt, plus more for 
seasoning, divided
½ teaspoon white 
pepper, plus more for 
seasoning, divided
2 cups pecan 
pieces, toasted
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 large eggs, beaten
1/4 cup milk
Parchment paper
2 cups all-purpose flour
4 tablespoons (½ stick) 
unsalted butterTO MAKE THE CHICKEN
1. Place a layer of plastic wrap on your work surface, 
then lay the chicken breasts on top. Place another 
layer of plastic wrap over the chicken. Using a meat 
mallet, gently pound the chicken breasts to flatten. 
Remove the top layer of plastic wrap.
2. Using a boning knife, cut a slit lengthwise into a 
chicken breast about two-thirds of the way, creating 
a pocket. Repeat with the remaining chicken. Stuff 
2 ounces of goat cheese into each chicken breast. 
Season the outside of the chicken with salt and white 
pepper, transfer to a baking sheet, and cover.
3. Place the pecans in a food processor and pulse until 
they are broken up but still a bit chunky, almost like 
the consistency of dry oats. Transfer to a large bowl 
and add the Cajun spice blend.
4. In a second large bowl, combine the beaten 
egg and milk.
5. In a third bowl, mix the flour, ½1 ⁄2 teaspoon of salt, and 
1⁄2 teaspoon of white pepper. Line a baking sheet 
with parchment paper.53 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
FOR THE CAJUN 
ARTICHOKE BEURRE 
BLANC
½ pound (2 sticks) 
unsalted butter, plus 
1 tablespoon, cold
1 tablespoon 
minced shallots
1½ cups artichoke hearts, 
cut into quarters
1 teaspoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
½ cup white wine
1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
Kosher salt
White pepper6. One at a time, dip each chicken breast into the 
flour mixture, shaking off excess flour. Dip into the 
egg mixture to coat well, letting the excess drip off. 
Finally, dredge in the pecan mixture, gently patting in 
the pecans. Set the chicken on the prepared baking 
sheet. Repeat with the remaining chicken breasts.
7. In a large sauté pan, melt the butter over medium 
heat. Cook the battered chicken breasts for 4 to 
5 minutes, or until browned evenly. Flip and cook for 
another 3 to 4 minutes, or until golden brown on both 
sides. Serve immediately with beurre blanc.
TO MAKE THE CAJUN ARTICHOKE BEURRE BLANC
1. Using a small paring knife, cut 1 ⁄2½ pound of butter into 
1⁄2-inch cubes, set on a small plate, and bring to room 
temperature.
2. In a medium sauté pan, melt the remaining 
1 tablespoon of butter. Add the shallots and cook 
over medium-low heat for 3 to 4 minutes, or until soft. 
Gently stir in the artichoke hearts and Cajun spice 
blend. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 3 more minutes.
3. Gently pour in the white wine and lemon juice, bring 
to a simmer, and reduce until almost dry, also known 
in French as au sec.
CONTINUED >54 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKPECAN-CRUSTED CHICKEN BREASTS WITH CAJUN ARTICHOKE  
BEURRE BLANC  CONTINUED
4. Remove from the heat and let cool about 5 minutes. 
One by one, add the room-temperature butter cubes 
to the pan. Stir until they smooth out but do not melt. 
Season with salt and white pepper to taste. Serve 
immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: You can bread the chicken ahead of time and place it 
on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap and refrig-
erate for up to 1 hour before cooking.
INGREDIENT TIP: The beurre blanc will not keep for long, as the 
butter will solidify in 30 to 40 minutes. To keep the sauce at the proper 
consistency, place it into a double boiler with a lukewarm water bath 
that is kept at around 76°F or room temperature.55 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
SHRIMP AND ANDOUILLE DIRTY RICE
ONE POT
With the addition of shrimp and andouille, this dish is perfect for a 
rice-based main course. It also makes a great accompaniment to fried 
chicken, fried catfish, and grilled or blackened seafood. Don’t be afraid of 
the chicken gizzards, which are ground up and mixed in. They add flavor 
but do not overpower the dish.  SERVES 6
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  35 minutes
1½ tablespoons Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
2 teaspoons dry mustard
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 tablespoon 
unsalted butter
½ pound ground 
chicken gizzards
4 ounces ground pork
½ pound andouille 
sausage, diced
1½ cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24)
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 cups Chicken Stock 
(page 15)
3/4 cup uncooked 
converted white rice  
(I like Uncle Ben’s)
½ pound shrimp, peeled 
and deveined1. In a small bowl, combine the Creole spice blend, dry 
mustard, and cumin and set aside. 
2. In a large skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. 
Add the chicken gizzards, pork, and sausage and cook 
for 5 minutes, or until the meat is browned and no 
pink remains. Add the spice mixture, Cajun Trinity, 
and garlic, and stir well. Cook for 5 more minutes, 
stirring frequently, until the Cajun Trinity is soft and 
translucent.
3. Add the chicken stock and rice, stir well, and bring to 
a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer for 
15 minutes. Add the shrimp and stir well. Turn off the 
heat and keep the skillet on the stove, covered, for 
10 more minutes, or until the rice is tender and the 
shrimp is pink.
4. Transfer to a casserole dish or bowl and serve 
immediately.
VARIATION TIP: You can use any of your favorite smoked sau-
sages instead of the andouille, and you can replace the shrimp with 
crawfish tails.56 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKSHRIMP ÉTOUFFÉE
ONE POT
This Cajun dish is perfect for 1 pound of shrimp or crawfish tail meat. At 
the Columns Hotel, where I worked as sous chef under Chef Chris Canan, 
we made a similar étouffée. Serve this étouffée over rice.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  40 minutes
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
unsalted butter
2 cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24), diced
1 cup chopped 
scallions, divided
1 tablespoon 
minced garlic
1 bay leaf
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)1 tablespoon chopped 
fresh thyme
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh parsley
1 tablespoon paprika
1 teaspoon 
cayenne pepper
1 cup all-purpose flour
½ cup red wine, such as 
Burgundy or Merlot
½ cup white wine, such 
as Chardonnay2 quarts Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
½ tablespoon hot sauce  
(I like Crystal Hot Sauce)
½ tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
1 pound shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
Kosher salt
White pepper
1. In a large saucepan, heat the butter over medium heat. Add the Cajun Trinity, 1 ⁄2 cup 
of scallions, the garlic, and bay leaf and cook until soft and translucent.
2. Add the Cajun spice blend, thyme, parsley, paprika, and cayenne pepper, and stir 
well. Continue to cook for a few minutes.
3. Add the flour, stir to incorporate and absorb any liquid, and cook for 3 to 4 minutes, 
stirring, to make a quick roux. Whisk in the red wine, white wine, and seafood stock. 
Whisk until smooth. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer for 15 to 
20 minutes. Add the hot sauce and Worcestershire sauce, and stir well. Fold in the 
shrimp and heat through until pink, then season with salt and white pepper to taste. 
 To serve, garnish with the remaining 1 ⁄2 cup scallions.57 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
HONEY AND CREOLE MUSTARD–GLAZED 
SALMON WITH PECANS
30 MINUTES
This salmon fillet is glazed with honey and Creole mustard, topped with 
chopped pecans, and broiled until done. I prefer wild-caught salmon 
because the farmed variety are given color enhancers to make their  
skin unnaturally pink, but you can use farmed salmon in this recipe.   
MAKES 6 PORTIONS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons 
Creole mustard (I 
like Zatarain’s)
6 (6-ounce) salmon fillets
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter, melted
½ teaspoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1/4 cup pecans, chopped1. Preheat the broiler on a high setting. In a small 
bowl, combine the honey and Creole mustard until 
well mixed.
2. Place the fillets skin-side down on a baking sheet or 
broiler pan, and lightly coat with the melted butter.
3. Evenly brush the mustard mixture on the fillets, then 
season with the Cajun spice blend.
4. Sprinkle the pecans evenly among the fillets. Place 
the pan 6 to 8 inches from the broiler and cook for 
8 to 10 minutes, or until the fish flakes easily with a 
fork. Serve immediately.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can change up this recipe by switching 
the fish. Any firm-fleshed fish will work, including red snapper, redfish, 
tuna, swordfish, or Spanish mackerel. For a completely different flavor, 
swap Steen’s Cane Syrup for the honey.58 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
SMOTHERED PORK CHOPS
ONE POT
Pork chops are a versatile protein—they can be substituted in just about 
any recipe that calls for chicken breasts. This mouthwatering pork chop 
is smothered with onions. Try serving it with sides of yellow rice and petit 
pois—which is French for very small green peas.  MAKES 6 PORTIONS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  55 minutes
6 bone-in pork chops, 
center cut
½ tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
2 cups onions, julienned
1 cup Beef Stock (page 16)
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce1. Season the pork chops evenly on both sides with the 
Cajun spice blend.
2. In a large sauté pan or cast-iron skillet, melt the  
butter over medium-high heat. Add the pork chops  
in batches and cook on both sides until browned.  
Transfer to a plate.
3. Place the onions in the pan and cook over medium 
heat, stirring frequently, until softened and browned.
4. Transfer the pork chops back to the pan. Add the 
beef stock and Worcestershire sauce, stir well, 
cover, and reduce the heat to low. Simmer for about 
30 minutes, or until the pork chops are tender. Serve 
immediately.
VARIATION TIP: You can swap out the pork for boneless chicken 
breasts. Cook the chicken until no pink remains and it reaches an inter-
nal temperature of 165°F.59 Classic Cajun and Creole Mains
SHRIMP-STUFFED BELL PEPPERS
Many stuffed pepper recipes call for parboiling the bell peppers, which 
makes them limp. Here, the peppers are cooked in a water bath to 
achieve the perfect firmness. For a vegetarian variation, use Vegetable 
Stock (page 17) and replace the shrimp with 1 cup of cooked chickpeas.   
MAKES 8 PORTIONS
PREP TIME:  30 minutes |  COOK TIME:  1 hour 15 minutes
4 large sweet bell 
peppers (red, yellow, or 
orange), halved
1 tablespoon 
unsalted butter
3/4 cup Cajun Trinity, finely 
chopped (page 24)
1 tablespoon 
minced garlic
2 cups sliced mushrooms
1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
1 cup diced tomatoes
1 cup cooked white rice
1 pound shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
½ cup Seafood Stock 
(page 18)
Kosher salt
White pepper
1 cup shredded Vermont 
cheddar cheese
½ cup shredded 
Parmesan cheese
½ cup warm water1. Preheat the oven to 450°F. In a 9-inch square pan, 
place the bell pepper halves open-side up.
2. In a large sauté pan, melt the butter over medium heat. 
Add the Cajun Trinity and cook until soft and translu-
cent. Add the garlic and cook, stirring frequently, for 
1 minute. Add the mushrooms and lemon juice and 
cook until the mushrooms are soft. Add the tomatoes, 
stir well, cover, and cook for about 10 minutes.
3. Remove the cover and allow the moisture to reduce 
to almost dry. Add the rice, stirring well. Add the 
shrimp and cook until they are pink and heated 
through. Add the seafood stock and stir well. Season 
with salt and white pepper to taste.
4. Spoon the filling evenly among the peppers. In a 
small bowl, combine the Vermont cheddar cheese 
and the Parmesan cheese. Sprinkle the mixture 
evenly over the tops of the filled peppers.
5. Pour the water into the pan to make a 1 ⁄4-inch layer of 
water around the peppers. Avoid getting any water in 
the peppers.
6. Cover the pan with heavy-duty aluminum foil and 
bake for 35 minutes. Remove the foil and bake for 
10 more minutes, or until the cheese is melted and 
slightly browned. Serve immediately.61CHAPTER 5
Sides and Snacks
Hushpuppies 62
Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with 
Black Pepper Gravy  63
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar  
Cornbread Muffins 65
Baked Tomatoes 66
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes 67Okra and Tomatoes 68
Collard Greens 69
Butternut Squash and Raisins 70
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes 71
Sesame-Soy Cajun Green Beans 72
These side dishes are the perfect accompaniment to any Cajun and Creole 
entrée. You’ll find a quick recipe for Hushpuppies, which pair beautifully 
with any fried foods and are also a delicious snack between meals. Black 
Pepper Cheddar Biscuits are a twist on the classic Southern biscuits and gravy. One 
of my favorites, Baked Tomatoes, is great with Smothered Pork Chops (page 58) or 
Blackened Fish (page 44). Okra and Tomatoes is a traditional preparation using cut 
okra and diced tomatoes, both of which are abundant in Louisiana. 
Collard Greens, page 6962 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
HUSHPUPPIES
VEGETARIAN
According to the first historical accounts of hushpuppies in 1899, hunt-
ers and fishermen fed fried batter to their dogs to “hush the puppies.” 
Always a great side for any seafood dish, hushpuppies are a regular lunch 
and dinner menu item served alongside fried catfish, fried shrimp, and 
fried oysters. Some restaurants offer hushpuppies with butter pats as a 
complementary treat instead of bread or rolls.  MAKES 24 HUSHPUPPIES
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  5 minutes
2 teaspoons Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1 tablespoon 
chopped scallions
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup finely 
chopped onion
½ cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup whole kernel corn
3/4 cup buttermilk
1½ cups self-rising 
yellow cornmeal
1 quart peanut oil1. In a medium bowl, mix the Cajun spice blend, 
scallions, sugar, onions, flour, corn, buttermilk, and 
cornmeal and stir to combine well. Cover and refrig -
erate for 1 hour.
2. In a 3-quart stockpot or Dutch oven, heat the peanut 
oil to 350°F.
3. Using a tablespoon, form the mixture into small 
balls, drop into the hot oil, and fry for 2 to 3 minutes, 
turning several times to ensure even cooking, until 
golden brown.
4. Transfer to a plate lined with several layers of paper 
towels. Serve immediately.
PREP TIP: You can prepare the hushpuppy mix ahead of time, cover, 
and store in the refrigerator for several days until ready to fry.63 Sides and SnacksCONTINUED >BLACK PEPPER CHEDDAR BISCUITS  
WITH BLACK PEPPER GRAVY
30 MINUTES
These biscuits are quick to fix because they are rolled out and cut into 
squares, wasting no dough. Kneading and turning the dough produces 
flaky biscuits with thin layers. The cheddar cheese and black pepper are 
a great flavor combination.  MAKES 18 BISCUITS
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
FOR THE BISCUITS
Nonstick cooking spray
2 cups all-purpose flour, 
plus more for dusting
1½ teaspoons 
baking powder
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper, divided
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, cold, cut into 
small pieces
3/4 cup shredded sharp 
cheddar cheese
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 large egg white, 
lightly beatenTO MAKE THE BISCUITS
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Lightly grease a baking 
sheet with nonstick cooking spray and set aside. In 
a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, 
½1⁄4 teaspoon of black pepper, and the salt.
2. Cut in the cold butter with a pastry knife or pulse in a 
food processor until the mixture looks coarse and the 
butter is blended well into the dry ingredients. Add 
the cheese and mix well. Add the buttermilk and stir 
well to combine. Form a dough ball.
3. Put the dough ball onto a floured work surface and 
knead, turning five or six times. Roll the dough into a 
1⁄2-inch-thick square, then use a chef knife to cut into 
18 equal portions.
4. Place the biscuits on the prepared baking sheet, 
spaced about 1 inch apart. Brush each with egg white, 
then sprinkle evenly with the remaining 3 ⁄4 teaspoon 
of black pepper.
5. Bake for 15 minutes, or until golden brown on top. 
Transfer to a platter and serve with black pepper 
gravy on the side.
INGREDIENTS 
CONTINUED >64 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKBLACK P EPPER C HEDDAR B ISCUITS WITH B LACK P EPPER G RAVY    
CONTINUED
FOR THE GRAVY
3 tablespoons 
bacon grease
3 tablespoons 
all-purpose flour
2 cups milk, warmed
2 teaspoons freshly 
ground black pepper
1 teaspoon kosher saltTO MAKE THE GRAVY
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine 
the bacon grease with the flour, stir well, and cook for 
3 to 5 minutes to make a blond roux.
2. Add the milk, black pepper, and salt, using a whisk to 
incorporate the milk. Blend until smooth. Reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 5 minutes, or until thick -
ened. Serve immediately with the biscuits.
STORAGE TIP: You can make the gravy ahead of time, let cool, 
cover, and refrigerate for several days. Reheat in a saucepan over 
medium-low heat until it reaches a temperature of 150°F or starts 
to simmer on the edges.
PREPARATION TIP: Add the flour to the bacon grease in the same 
manner as when you make a roux. Start with a whisk to smooth out 
all the flour, then switch to a spoon and stir well to prevent scorching 
or burning.
INGREDIENT TIP: Gravy is typically made from the drippings of 
animal fats such as pork bacon and chicken or duck fat. You can 
substitute any animal fat or lard for the bacon grease. If you don’t have 
any animal fat, use butter or peanut oil.65 Sides and Snacks
PUMPKIN SEED AND CHEDDAR 
CORNBREAD MUFFINS
ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
This twist on the ol’ Southern favorite features roasted pumpkin seeds, 
cheddar cheese, and minced garlic. Top the halved muffins with butter or 
a drizzle of honey.  MAKES 12 MUFFINS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  25 minutes
Nonstick cooking spray
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar
2 cups cornmeal
½ cup pumpkin 
seeds, roasted
1 large egg, beaten
1 cup milk
1 tablespoon 
melted butter
1 cup shredded 
cheddar cheese
1 tablespoon minced garlic1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. Coat a 6-cup muffin 
pan with nonstick cooking spray and set aside. In 
a medium bowl, combine the sugar, cornmeal, and 
pumpkin seeds. In another bowl, combine the egg, 
milk, and melted butter and beat well together.
2. Mix the wet and dry ingredients and stir well 
until smooth.
3. Fold in the cheese and the garlic.
4. Portion the batter evenly among the muffin cups in 
the prepared pan.
5. Bake for 25 minutes, or until golden brown. Use a 
cake tester or toothpick to test for doneness. Serve 
immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: You can make the batter ahead of time and refrigerate, 
covered, for several hours before baking. Take it out of the refrigerator 
and let it sit on the counter for about an hour before portioning out 
and baking.66 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BAKED TOMATOES
VEGETARIAN
These tomatoes are perfect with any main course. I recommend using 
beefsteak or full-size heirloom tomatoes. Tomatoes are full of lycopene, 
which can promote heart and eye health, and their fiber aids digestion.   
MAKES 8 PORTIONS
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  30 minutes
1 cup mayonnaise
½ teaspoon garlic salt
½ tablespoon Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
½ tablespoon dried thyme
½ cup shredded 
Parmesan cheese
4 medium tomatoes
½ cup Italian 
bread crumbs1. Preheat the oven to 425°F. In a medium bowl, com-
bine the mayonnaise, garlic salt, Creole spice blend, 
thyme, and Parmesan cheese.
2. Cut the tomatoes into even halves and place in a 
9-inch square baking dish. Spoon the mayonnaise 
mixture onto each tomato half and spread evenly.
3. Top each tomato with the bread crumbs. Bake for 
30 minutes, or until the tomatoes are soft and their 
tops are golden brown. Serve immediately.
VARIATION TIP: You can add any of your favorite herbs or spices 
to the mayonnaise mixture. Try curry powder or a combination of chili 
powder and cumin. Replace the bread crumbs with seasoned crouton 
crumbs. Try using different heirloom tomatoes if you can find them in 
your market or if you grow your own.67 Sides and Snacks
SPICY GARLIC MASHED POTATOES
ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
Yukon Gold potatoes have a creamy texture and a rich flavor, especially 
paired with garlic. If Yukon Gold are not available, any young potato, such 
as new red, white, or yellow, will work for this recipe.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  5 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
2 pounds Yukon Gold 
potatoes, skin removed, 
cut into 1-inch pieces, 
and rinsed
2 teaspoons kosher salt
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
unsalted butter
1/4 cup minced garlic
1 teaspoon garlic salt
½ teaspoon white pepper
½ tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
1 cup sour cream, 
tempered (see 
Ingredient Tip page 50)
½ cup cream 
cheese, softened1. Place the potatoes in a 3-quart stockpot and add 
enough cool water to cover. Add the salt. Bring to a 
boil over medium-high heat and cook for 25 minutes, 
or until soft. When a small paring knife inserts easily 
into one of the larger pieces, they are done. Don’t 
overcook the potatoes or they will start to break up 
too much. Drain well in a colander.
2. In the same pot, melt the butter over medium heat. 
Add the garlic and cook for 2 minutes. Add the garlic 
salt, white pepper, and Cajun spice blend, and cook, 
stirring frequently, for 3 minutes. (Do not brown the 
garlic.) Turn off the heat.
3. Add the potatoes and stir to coat.
4. Mash the potatoes, leaving some chunks. Fold in the 
sour cream and cream cheese. Serve immediately.68 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
OKRA AND TOMATOES
DAIRY-FREE, GLUTEN-FREE, ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
Okra is also known as quibombo in Spanish and gombo in French. Slaves 
from West Africa introduced okra to the Caribbean and United States 
most likely in the 1700s, and the Creoles in Louisiana learned to thicken 
soups with it. Okra remains the essential ingredient in Creole gumbo, 
which is still widely enjoyed today.  SERVES 6
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  50 minutes
1 tablespoon peanut oil
2 medium onions, 
diced large
6 garlic cloves, minced
3 cups fresh okra, cut into 
½-inch slices
3 cups diced tomatoes
½ cup red wine vinegar
1 bay leaf
2 tablespoons Creole 
Spice Blend (page 22)
Kosher salt1. In a 3-quart saucepan, heat the peanut oil over 
medium-high heat. Add the onions and cook for a few 
minutes, until soft and translucent.
2. Add the garlic, stir well, and cook for a few more min-
utes. Add the okra, tomatoes, and red wine vinegar 
and stir well to incorporate. Bring to a boil.
3. Add the bay leaf and Creole spice blend, stir well, 
reduce the heat to a slow simmer, and cover.
4. Cook for 30 minutes, stirring about every 10 minutes. 
Season with salt to taste. Serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP: Vinegar is added to many okra recipes because 
it helps break down the thick, slimy texture okra takes on after it has 
been cut and cooked. 69 Sides and Snacks
COLLARD GREENS
ONE POT
This Southern favorite has a Cajun twist with andouille sausage, Cajun 
Trinity, and Cajun Spice Blend. Cane syrup and a touch of apple cider 
vinegar add sweet and sour notes.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  1 hour 30 minutes
1/4 pound thick-cut bacon, 
cut into 1-inch pieces
2 cups Cajun Trinity 
(page 24), diced
½ pound andouille 
sausage, diced
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons 
minced garlic
1 (½-pound) smoked 
ham hock
2 pounds collard greens, 
cut into 2-inch pieces
1 quart Chicken Stock 
(page 15)
1/4 cup cane syrup  
(I like Steen’s)
2 tablespoons apple 
cider vinegar
Kosher salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. In a large 8-quart stockpot, brown the bacon over 
medium heat until crispy. Using a slotted spoon, 
transfer the bacon to a plate lined with several layers 
of paper towels. Keep the grease in the pot.
2. Add the Cajun Trinity and sausage and cook for 
5 minutes, stirring frequently, until the Cajun Trinity 
is soft and translucent. Add the Cajun spice blend, 
garlic, and ham hock, stir well, and cook for 1 to 
2 more minutes.
3. Add the collard greens and stir well. Add the chicken 
stock, cane syrup, and apple cider vinegar. Add the 
reserved bacon. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat 
to a simmer and cook for 1 hour, until tender. Season 
with salt and black pepper to taste. Transfer to a large 
bowl and serve immediately.70 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
BUTTERNUT SQUASH AND RAISINS
ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
Butternut squash has a sweet flavor. Tossed with melted butter and 
raisins, it goes well with pork, beef, and chicken. It’s also great with roast 
turkey during the holidays. If you want to add some spices, see the  
Substitution Tip.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  30 minutes
1 medium butternut 
squash, peeled and cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1 teaspoon kosher salt, 
plus more for seasoning
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1 tablespoon light 
brown sugar
1 cup raisins
White pepper1. In a medium saucepan, cover the butternut squash 
with water, and add 1 teaspoon of salt. Bring to a 
boil, reduce the heat to a simmer, and cook until 
fork-tender. Drain in a colander.
2. In the same pan, melt the butter over medium heat. 
Stir in the brown sugar and raisins and cook for a 
few minutes.
3. Add the squash, stir well, and cook for a few min-
utes. Season with salt and white pepper to taste 
before serving.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: If you’re a fan of cinnamon or you want to lend 
the dish some holiday flavor, add 1 teaspoon of ground cinnamon with 
the salt in step 1. A pinch of ground cloves and a sprinkling of nutmeg 
give the dish added excitement for Thanksgiving or Christmas. If you’re 
looking for pizzazz, add 1 teaspoon of Creole Spice Blend (page 22) or a 
pinch or two of cayenne pepper.71 Sides and Snacks
CAJUN ROCKIN’ ROASTED POTATOES
ONE POT, VEGETARIAN
This potato dish is perfect at a cookout or alongside grilled beef steaks, 
Smothered Pork Chops (page 58), Blackened Fish (page 44), and roasted 
or grilled chicken. Fresh rosemary and thyme are key to the success of 
this dish. Throwing in the cherry tomatoes at the end allows them to 
plump up but not break.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  45 minutes
2 pounds new red 
potatoes, Yukon Gold 
potatoes, or any small 
creamer potatoes, cut 
into 1½-inch chunks
12 garlic cloves, sliced
2 cups pearl 
onions, peeled
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh rosemary
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh thyme
1 tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, melted
1 pint cherry tomatoes1. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Put the potatoes in a 
9-by-13-inch casserole dish. Add the garlic, onions, 
rosemary, thyme, Cajun spice blend, and melted 
butter. Toss well to coat evenly.
2. Bake for 45 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes. Use 
a small paring knife or the tines of a fork to test the 
doneness of several potatoes. Add the cherry toma-
toes and gently toss. Bake for another 5 minutes, or 
until the tomatoes plump. Serve immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: To prep ahead of time, toss all the ingredients 
except the tomatoes in a large bowl and refrigerate, covered, up to 
2 days. When ready to cook, transfer to a casserole dish and pick up 
with step 2.72 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
SESAME-SOY CAJUN GREEN BEANS
30 MINUTES, ONE POT
I developed this recipe one evening when my wife and I were reminiscing 
about the sesame green beans we used to order at one of our favorite 
Vietnamese restaurants. Sautéed in sesame oil with julienned red onions, 
these beans explode with flavor.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  20 minutes
½ tablespoon sesame oil
1 cup julienned red onion
2 pounds fresh green 
beans, stemmed
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
oyster sauce
½ tablespoon Cajun Spice 
Blend (page 20)
½ teaspoon kosher salt
½ tablespoon toasted 
sesame seeds (see 
Ingredient Tip)1. In a large sauté pan, heat the sesame oil over 
medium-high heat. Add the red onion and cook for 
4 to 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until soft and 
translucent.
2. Add the green beans and cook, stirring frequently, for 
6 to 8 minutes, or until soft.
3. Add the soy sauce, oyster sauce, and Cajun spice 
blend, and stir well to coat. Cook, stirring occa-
sionally, for a few minutes. Add the salt and toasted 
sesame seeds, and stir well until evenly mixed. Trans-
fer to a platter and serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP: Served over rice, this dish is great with any 
meat entrée.
INGREDIENT TIP: To toast sesame seeds, put them in a medium 
sauté pan and toss gently over medium heat until they turn light 
brown. Toss or stir frequently so they brown evenly.75CHAPTER 6
Sweets and Desserts
Crème Caramel  76
Cream Puffs 78
Chocolate Mousse 80Fresh Berries with Crème Anglaise 81
Lemon Squares 83
Heavenly Hash Brownies 84
Cajuns and Creoles love their sweets. This chapter includes two traditional 
French desserts: Crème Caramel made with an egg custard and caramel 
sauce, and Cream Puffs, both of which are still popular in and around  
Louisiana. Heavenly Hash Brownies is a family recipe handed down and enjoyed to 
this day,  particularly around the holidays. 
Cream Puffs, page 7876 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CRÈME CARAMEL
GLUTEN-FREE, VEGETARIAN
Originally from France, this classic has found its way into many homes 
in and around New Orleans, and although it’s not specifically a Cajun 
or Creole preparation, there’s no doubt it’s a local treasure. For this 
recipe, you’ll need 1-cup ramekins or soup cups to create individual 
 servings.  SERVES 8
PREP TIME:  20 minutes |  COOK TIME:  1 hour
FOR THE CARAMEL SAUCE
1 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup water
FOR THE CUSTARD
3/4 cup granulated sugar
12 large eggs
4 cups whole 
milk, warmed
2 teaspoons 
vanilla extract
½ teaspoon kosher salt
1 to 2 cups hot waterTO MAKE THE CARAMEL SAUCE
1. In a medium saucepan, combine the sugar and 
water. Whisk well, making sure no dry lumps of sugar 
remain. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring, 
until the sugar is completely dissolved. Cover and 
reduce the heat to a simmer.
2. Continue simmering until the mixture reaches 
310°F, otherwise known as the caramel stage. The 
sauce will have an amber color, then will progress 
to dark brown.
3. Remove from the heat and keep covered.
TO MAKE THE CUSTARD
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a large bowl, combine 
the sugar and eggs and whisk until smooth. Slowly 
whisk in the milk. Continue stirring, until the sugar 
is completely dissolved. Gently stir in the vanilla 
and salt.
2. Divide the caramel sauce evenly among 8 serving 
ramekins or cups. Let cool and slightly solidify, then 
divide the custard mixture evenly, filling each ramekin 
about two-thirds full.77 Sweets and Desserts
3. Set the ramekins in a roasting pan or on a baking 
sheet and add the hot water to the pan to create a 
bath around the ramekins. This prevents the custard 
from burning.
4. Bake for 25 minutes, or until a cake tester or tooth-
pick inserted in the custard comes out clean.
5. Remove the ramekins from the water bath and let sit 
for at least 30 minutes.
6. When ready to unmold, run a small knife around 
the edges of one custard, then place it onto a small 
saucer or plate, turn it upside down, and shake gently 
to get it to release. The custard and caramel sauce 
will slide out and spread. Serve immediately.
SIMPLIFY IT: If preparing ahead of time, keep the custards in the 
ramekins. Once cooled to room temperature, cover and keep them 
refrigerated for up to 2 days, then follow the unmolding instructions 
in step 9.78 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CREAM PUFFS
VEGETARIAN
Popular in Louisiana around the winter holidays (and during Mardi Gras, 
with green, purple, and gold sugars sprinkled on top), these tiny morsels 
of cream-filled pastry are a charming addition to any dessert table. Pâte 
à choux, otherwise known as choux paste, is a classic French dessert 
preparation that goes back to 16th-century France. This light, versatile 
pastry dough is used for making sweet cream puffs, pastry swans, éclairs, 
croquembouches, and profiteroles. It’s also a savory preparation for 
gougères, which are prepared with cheese. The high protein and gluten 
content of bread flour gives the choux paste body and allows the puffs 
to stand up.  MAKES 24 CREAM PUFFS
PREP TIME:  25 minutes |  COOK TIME:  35 minutes
FOR THE PÂTE À CHOUX
Parchment paper
1 cup water
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
unsalted butter
½ teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup bread flour
6 large eggs
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 cups heavy 
(whipping) cream
½ teaspoon vanilla extractTO MAKE THE PÂTE À CHOUX
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Line 2 baking sheets with 
parchment and set aside. 
2. In a medium saucepan, bring the water, butter, and 
salt to a boil over medium-high heat. Remove from 
the heat and gradually stir in the flour, until fully 
incorporated and a solid ball is formed.
3. Return the pan to the heat and stir for 3 to 4 more 
minutes, until the dough pulls away from the 
sides of the pan.
4. Transfer the dough to a stand mixer bowl and let 
cool for 5 minutes. Fit the mixer with the paddle 
attachment. With the mixer on the lowest speed, add 
the eggs one at a time, making sure each one is fully 
incorporated before adding the next. Continue until 
all the eggs are added and the dough is smooth.79 Sweets and Desserts
5. Transfer to a pastry bag and pipe out golf ball–size 
balls. If you don’t have a pastry bag, spoon out the 
dough. Space the balls 2 inches apart on the pre -
pared baking sheets.
6. Bake for 10 minutes, then reduce the heat to 375°F 
and bake for 10 more minutes, or until golden brown. 
Use a paring knife to pierce a small hole on the sides 
of each puff to release steam, then let cool to room 
temperature.
7. Transfer the whipped cream to another pastry bag. 
Fill each puff with the whipped cream by piping the 
cream into the small hole you created in step 5.
8. Transfer to a dessert platter and serve immediately, or 
cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for up to 1 day.
TO MAKE THE WHIPPED CREAM
1. Place a stand mixer bowl and wire whisk attachment 
in the freezer for 10 minutes.
2. Put the sugar, cream, and vanilla in the bowl. Whisk 
at medium speed until stiff peaks form when you lift 
the whip attachment from the cream.
INGREDIENT TIP: If preparing ahead of time, store the whipped 
cream in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 6 hours. 
Gently whisk again by hand for several seconds before serving 
or piping.80 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
CHOCOLATE MOUSSE
VEGETARIAN
Mousse is a French term meaning froth or foam, achieved by beating egg 
whites. This airy dish can be sweet or savory, hot or cold. This version is 
sweet and cold. It contains just three ingredients.  SERVES 6
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
1 cup semisweet 
chocolate chips
1 cup heavy (whipping) 
cream, scalded
3 large eggs, separated1. Place the chocolate chips in a food processor and 
blend until coarse like sand.
2. With the processor still running, slowly pour in the 
scalded heavy cream. Blend for 15 to 20 seconds, 
until the mixture is smooth.
3. One by one, add the egg yolks, running the proces-
sor for a few seconds to fully incorporate each one. 
Transfer to a large bowl and let the mixture cool 
completely to room temperature.
4. In a separate large mixing bowl, beat the egg whites 
until they are stiff and hold a slightly curved peak 
when you raise the whisk.
5. Using a rubber spatula, transfer about half the beaten 
egg whites to the chocolate mixture and stir gently. 
Repeat with the remaining egg whites, stirring gently, 
until incorporated.
6. Divide the mousse evenly among 6 serving dishes, 
then cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at 
least 4 hours. Serve within a day of preparation.
INGREDIENT TIP: For a hint of spice, add ½ teaspoon of ground 
cinnamon with the chocolate chips in step 1. If you want to make 
a mint-flavored chocolate mousse, add ¼ teaspoon of peppermint 
extract with the heavy cream in step 2.81 Sweets and DessertsCONTINUED >FRESH BERRIES WITH CRÈME ANGLAISE
GLUTEN-FREE, 30 MINUTES, VEGETARIAN
This dessert features fresh strawberries, blueberries, and raspberries 
coated with sweet crème anglaise, the classic French dessert sauce. 
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  15 minutes
FOR THE CRÈME ANGLAISE
½ cup granulated sugar
4 large egg yolks, at 
room temperature
1 teaspoon cornstarch
13/4 cups milk, scalded 
(See Preparation Tip)
1 tablespoon 
vanilla extractTO MAKE THE CRÈME ANGLAISE
1. Fill a double boiler or saucepan with water and bring 
to a simmer.
2. In a small stainless-steel mixing bowl, place the egg 
yolks and gradually beat the sugar into them for 2 to 
3 minutes, or until the mixture is pale yellow and 
forms a ribbon when you lift the whisk.
3. Add the cornstarch and beat so that it dissolves. 
While continuing to beat, very gradually pour in the 
scalded milk in a thin, steady stream, taking care that 
the yolks do not start to cook or congeal.
4. Put the bowl over the double boiler.
5. Using a rubber spatula or wooden spoon, stir contin-
uously, reaching all over the bottom and sides of the 
bowl, until the sauce thickens just enough to coat the 
back of a spoon with a light, creamy, saucelike layer. 
Do not let the mixture come to a simmer; it should 
never get above 170°F.
6. Remove from the heat. Using a wire whisk, beat the 
sauce for 1 or 2 more minutes to cool. Strain through a 
fine sieve into another bowl. Beat in the vanilla.
7. Set the bowl of sauce in a larger bowl of cold water, 
stirring frequently, until cool. Cover and refrigerate.
INGREDIENTS 
CONTINUED >82 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOKFRESH  BERRIES  WITH  CRÈME  ANGLAISE  CONTINUED
FOR THE BERRIES
2 tablespoons 
granulated sugar
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 cup strawberries, hulls 
trimmed and quartered
1 cup blueberries
1 cup raspberries
Fresh mint leaves, 
for garnishTO MAKE THE BERRIES
1. In a small bowl, combine the sugar and rum and stir 
well, until the sugar is dissolved.
2. Add the strawberries, blueberries, and raspberries 
and toss until well coated.
3. Divide the berries among four serving dishes and 
lightly drizzle with the crème anglaise. Garnish with 
fresh mint and serve immediately.
PREPARATION TIP: Scalded milk has been heated to just below 
the boiling point to a low simmer, and until it shimmers on the sides of 
the pot.
STORAGE TIP: You can refrigerate the crème anglaise for several 
days, but this will make it thicker than you want. Before serving, set it 
out to come to room temperature. Stir it a bit to test the consistency, 
then add to your berries or other dessert creations.83 Sweets and Desserts
LEMON SQUARES
VEGETARIAN
The southern regions of Louisiana have a temperate climate. Many farm-
ers in Plaquemines Parish, just south of New Orleans, grow lemon trees. 
These lemon squares are perfect for potluck dinners.  MAKES 24 SQUARES
PREP TIME:  15 minutes |  COOK TIME:  50 minutes
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
butter, melted
1 cup all-purpose flour 
plus 2 tablespoons
3/4 cup confectioners’ 
sugar, divided
2 large eggs, beaten
1 tablespoon lemon zest
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 cup granulated sugar
½ teaspoon 
baking powder1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a medium bowl, mix 
the melted butter, 1 cup of flour, and ½1 ⁄4 cup of 
 confectioners’ sugar with a spoon.
2. Evenly pat the crust into the bottom of a 9-inch 
square baking pan. Bake for 25 minutes, or until 
lightly browned. Keep the oven on.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the eggs, lemon 
zest, lemon juice, granulated sugar, remaining 
2 tablespoons of flour, and the baking powder.
4. Pour the mixture over the crust.
5. Return to the oven and cook for 25 minutes, or until 
lightly browned on the sides and top.
6. Let cool completely. To serve, sprinkle the top 
with the remaining 1 ⁄2 cup of confectioners’ sugar 
and cut into 24 even squares. For larger bars, cut 
into 12 squares.
PREPARATION TIP: Allow the eggs to come to room temperature 
before mixing. This gives them an airy, fluffy texture, which results in a 
smoother batter.84 THE EASY CREOLE AND CAJUN COOKBOOK
HEAVENLY HASH BROWNIES
VEGETARIAN
The name of this recipe is derived from Elmer Chocolate’s famous  
Heavenly Hash Egg, which is hard to find outside the Gulf Coast.  
My mother made this very recipe for every holiday gathering.   
MAKES 18 SQUARES
PREP TIME:  10 minutes |  COOK TIME:  30 minutes
1 (18-ounce) package 
brownie mix
1 cup chopped walnuts
2 cups mini marshmallows
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
butter, melted
2 ounces baking chocolate
1/4 cup milk
½ pound 
confectioners’ sugar1. Preheat the oven according to the package instruc -
tions. Prepare the brownie mix, and add the walnuts. 
Bake in an 8- or 9-inch square pan.
2. Remove from the oven and top with the marshmal -
lows. Let melt slightly.
3. In a medium saucepan, combine the melted butter, 
chocolate, and milk over very low heat. Cook, stirring 
well, until the mixture melts together into a smooth 
consistency.
4. Transfer to a large bowl, then whisk in the confec -
tioners’ sugar to make chocolate icing. Pour the icing 
over the top of the marshmallows. Let sit for 2 hours 
before cutting to serve.
INGREDIENT TIP: These rich brownies go great with a hot cup of 
café au lait, or coffee with warm milk. If you don’t like walnuts, substi-
tute pecans or almonds.New Orleans Seafood Chowder, page 4887
MEASUREMENT CONVERSIONSFAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C)  
(APPROXIMATE)
OVEN  
TEMPERATURES250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°CUS STANDARDUS STANDARD  
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(LIQUID)2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1½ cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(DRY)⅛ teaspoon                     0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon                     1 mL
½ teaspoon                     2 mL
¾ teaspoon                     4 mL
1 teaspoon                     5 mL
1 tablespoon                     15 mL
¼ cup                     59 mL
⅓ cup                     79 mL
½ cup                     118 mL
⅔ cup                     156 mL
¾ cup                     177 mL
1 cup                     235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint                     475 mL
3 cups                     700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart                     1 L
½ gallon                     2 L
1 gallon                     4 L
WEIGHT  
EQUIVALENTS½ ounce                     15 g
1 ounce                     30 g
2 ounces                     60 g
4 ounces                     115 g
8 ounces                     225 g
12 ounces                     340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound                     455 g88RESOURCES
CAJUN CHEF RYAN
Carriere, MS
CajunChefRyan.com 
This blog is where I record, preserve, and share recipes collected from family, 
friends, and more than three decades’ restaurant experience. My Cajun Spice 
Blend and Finger Lickin’ Rub are available for sale here.
CAJUN GROCER
Metairie, LA
CajunGrocer.com
The Cajun Grocer offers just about any product you need to prepare Louisiana 
and New Orleans cuisine, including French bread, crawfish, boudin, Tasso ham,  
andouille, king cakes, sauces, spices, marinades, coffee, condiments, mixes, and 
frozen prepared meals.
CAMELLIA BRAND
Harahan, LA
CamelliaBrand.com
With a slogan of “Red Beans Done Right,” Camellia has the best red beans, and 
it’s the only brand I buy when I’m making a batch of red beans and rice. The 
product line includes lima beans, pinto beans, navy beans, great northern beans, 
black beans, field peas, green split peas, lentils, and many other products.
CENTRAL GROCERY & DELI
New Orleans, LA
CentralGrocery.com
Home of the famous Original Muffuletta Sandwich, Central Grocery also has a 
great selection of olive salads you can order for your own muffulettas.89 ResourcesELMER CHOCOLATE
Ponchatoula, LA
ElmerChocolate.com
Famous for its Easter candies of Gold Brick Eggs, Heavenly Hash Eggs, Pecan 
Eggs, and Gold Brick Topping Sauce, Elmer Chocolate has been making and 
selling candy since 1855.
JACOB’S WORLD FAMOUS ANDOUILLE
LaPlace, LA
CajunSausage.com
In addition to its famous andouille sausage, Jacob’s offers smoked sausage, 
Italian sausage, smoked chickens, smoked turkey wings, Tasso ham, boudin, hog 
crackling, and filé powder. Most products are sent via two-day mail; perishables 
are shipped overnight.
LOUISIANA SEAFOOD EXCHANGE
New Orleans, LA
LouisianaSeafoodExchange.net
From alligator meat to wahoo—and with crabs, crawfish, escargot, oysters, 
shrimp, or turtle meat in between—Louisiana Seafood Exchange has more than 
90 fresh seafood selections and shipping is available to all 50 states.
STEEN’S SYRUP
Abbeville, LA
SteensSyrup.com
Steen’s 100% Pure Cane Syrup is the main product, but they also offer Steen’s 
Pure and Natural Dark Molasses and Southern Made Blended Syrup.
ZATARAIN’S
Gretna, LA
Zatarains.com
Crawfish, shrimp, and crab boil spices; Creole mustard; Creole seasoning; pre-
pared horseradish; gumbo filé powder; fish fry; and root beer extract are just a 
few of the items from Zatarain’s vast line of New Orleans flavors and products.90INDEX
A
Appetizers
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and  
Creole Salsa, 32
Black-and-Blue Chicken on Basil  
Toast, 33–34
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39
Crawfish Cakes, 28–29
Crawfish Cucumber Imperial, 35
Creole Salsa, 31
Deviled Eggs, 36
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Artichoke hearts
Oyster Artichoke Soup, 49
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with Cajun 
Artichoke Beurre Blanc, 52-54
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and  
Creole Salsa, 32
B
Bacon
Collard Greens, 69
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
Baked Tomatoes, 66
Baking sheets, 4
Basil Toast, Black-and-Blue  
Chicken on, 33–34
Beans
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Slow Cooker Red Beans, 45
Beef Stock, 16Berries, Fresh, with Crème  
Anglaise, 81–82
Black-and-Blue Chicken on Basil  
Toast, 33–34
Blackened Fish, 44
Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with Black 
Pepper Gravy, 63–64
Blond Roux, 12
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39
Breads
Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with Black 
Pepper Gravy, 63–64
Hushpuppies, 62
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65
Butternut Squash and Raisins, 70
C
Cabbage
Vegetable Stock, 17
Cajun cuisine, 1–2
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Cajun Trinity, 24
Carrots
Beef Stock, 16
Chicken Stock, 15
Seafood Stock, 18
Vegetable Stock, 17
Catfish
Blackened Fish, 44
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 4891 IndexCelery
Beef Stock, 16
Cajun Trinity, 24
Chicken Stock, 15
Seafood Stock, 18
Vegetable Stock, 17
Cheese. See also Cream cheese
Baked Tomatoes, 66
Black-and-Blue Chicken on Basil  
Toast, 33–34
Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with Black 
Pepper Gravy, 63–64
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with Cajun 
Artichoke Beurre Blanc, 52-54
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits, 51
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers, 59
Chef knives, 3–4
Chicken
Black-and-Blue Chicken on Basil  
Toast, 33–34
Chicken Stock, 15
Coq au Vin, 47
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with Cajun 
Artichoke Buerre Blanc, 52-54
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice, 55
Chiles
Creole Salsa, 31
Chocolate
Chocolate Mousse, 80
Heavenly Hash Brownies, 84
Cilantro
Creole Salsa, 31
Cocktail Sauce, 25
Collard Greens, 69
Condiments, 6
Coq au Vin, 47
Corn
Hushpuppies, 62
Cornmeal
Hushpuppies, 62
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65Crab
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and Creole 
Salsa, 32
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Seafood Stock, 18
Crawfish Bisque, 46
Crawfish Cakes, 28–29
Crawfish Cucumber Imperial, 35
Cream cheese
Deviled Eggs, 36
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Cream Puffs, 78–79
Crème Caramel, 76–77
Creole cuisine, 1–2
Creole Salsa, 31
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Cucumber Crawfish Imperial, 35
D
Dairy-free
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and Creole 
Salsa, 32
Blackened Fish, 44
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Cajun Trinity, 24
Cocktail Sauce, 25
Crawfish Cakes, 28–29
Creole Salsa, 31
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Slow Cooker Red Beans, 45
Dark Roux, 13
Desserts
Chocolate Mousse, 80
Cream Puffs, 78–79
Crème Caramel, 76–77
Fresh Berries with Crème Anglaise, 81–82
Heavenly Hash Brownies, 84
Lemon Squares, 83
Deviled Eggs, 36
Dutch ovens, 392 IndexE
Eggplants
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
Eggs
Chocolate Mousse, 80
Cream Puffs, 78–79
Crème Caramel, 76–77
Deviled Eggs, 36
Fresh Berries with Crème Anglaise, 81–82
Equipment, 3–4
F
Fish
Blackened Fish, 44
Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed Salmon 
with Pecans, 57
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Seafood Stock, 18
Food processors, 4
Fresh Berries with Crème Anglaise, 81–82
G
Gluten-free
Blackened Fish, 44
Crème Caramel, 76–77
Fresh Berries with Crème Anglaise, 81–82
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
Green Beans, Sesame-Soy Cajun, 72
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
Grits, Shrimp, and Sausage, 51
H
Ham hocks
Collard Greens, 69
Heavenly Hash Brownies, 84
Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed Salmon 
with Pecans, 57
Hushpuppies, 62
I
Ingredient staples, 5–6
J
Jalapeño Poppers, 30L
Lemon Squares, 83
M
Meat staples, 5
Meat thermometers, 4
Mushrooms
Coq au Vin, 47
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits, 51
N
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Nuts
Heavenly Hash Brownies, 84
Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed Salmon 
with Pecans, 57
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with  
Cajun Artichoke Buerre  
Blanc, 52-54
O
Okra
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Olives
Deviled Eggs, 36
One pot
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and  
Creole Salsa, 32
Beef Stock, 16
Blond Roux, 12
Butternut Squash and Raisins, 70
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Chicken Stock, 15
Cocktail Sauce, 25
Collard Greens, 69
Coq au Vin, 47
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Dark Roux, 13
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Oyster Artichoke Soup, 49
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Muffins, 6593 IndexQuick Roux, 11
Seafood Stock, 18
Sesame-Soy Cajun Green Beans, 72
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice, 55
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Shrimp Étouffée, 56
Slow Cooker Red Beans, 45
Smothered Pork Chops, 58
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
Vegetable Stock, 17
Onions
Beef Stock, 16
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Cajun Trinity, 24
Chicken Stock, 15
Creole Salsa, 31
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Seafood Stock, 18
Smothered Pork Chops, 58
Vegetable Stock, 17
Oysters
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Oyster Artichoke Soup, 49
P
Pantry staples, 6
Parsley
Beef Stock, 16
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39
Chicken Stock, 15
Crawfish Bisque, 46
Crawfish Cucumber Imperial, 35
Seafood Stock, 18
Shrimp Étouffée, 56
Vegetable Stock, 17
Pecan-Crusted Chicken Breasts with Cajun 
Artichoke Buerre Blanc, 52-54
Peppers
Cajun Trinity, 24
Creole Salsa, 31
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers, 59
Pork. See also Bacon; Sausage
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice, 55
Smothered Pork Chops, 58
Potatoes
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Produce staples, 5
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65
Q
Quick Roux, 11
R
Raisins and Butternut Squash, 70
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Rice
Coq au Vin, 47
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice, 55
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers, 59
Roasting pans, 4
Roux, 10
Blond Roux, 12
Dark Roux, 13
Quick Roux, 11
S
Salmon, Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed 
Salmon, with Pecans, 57
Sausage
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39
Collard Greens, 69
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits, 51
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty Rice, 55
Slow Cooker Red Beans, 45
Seafood staples, 5
Seafood Stock, 18
Sesame-Soy Cajun Green Beans, 72
Shrimp
Jalapeño Poppers, 30
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Seafood Stock, 18
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits, 51
Shrimp and Andouille Dirty  
Rice, 5594 IndexShrimp (continued)
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Shrimp Étouffée, 56
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers, 59
Sides
Baked Tomatoes, 66
Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with Black 
Pepper Gravy, 63–64
Butternut Squash and Raisins, 70
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Collard Greens, 69
Hushpuppies, 62
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65
Sesame-Soy Cajun Green Beans, 72
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Skillets, 3
Slow Cooker Red Beans, 45
Smothered Pork Chops, 58
Soups
Crawfish Bisque, 46
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Oyster Artichoke Soup, 49
Spice blends, 19
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
Spices, 6
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Spinach
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
Stockpots, 3
Stocks, 14
Beef Stock, 16
Chicken Stock, 15
Vegetable Stock, 17
T
30 minutes
Avocado Boats with Crabmeat and Creole 
Salsa, 32
Black-and-Blue Chicken on Basil Toast, 
33–34
Blackened Fish, 44Black Pepper Cheddar Biscuits with Black 
Pepper Gravy, 63–64
Blond Roux, 12
Boudin Sausage Balls, 38–39
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Cajun Trinity, 24
Cocktail Sauce, 25
Crawfish Cakes, 28–29
Crawfish Cucumber Imperial, 35
Creole Salsa, 31
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Deviled Eggs, 36
Fresh Berries with Crème  
Anglaise, 81–82
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
Honey and Creole Mustard–Glazed Salmon 
with Pecans, 57
Hushpuppies, 62
Quick Roux, 11
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Sesame-Soy Cajun Green Beans, 72
Shrimp, Sausage, and Grits, 51
Tomatoes
Baked Tomatoes, 66
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Creole Salsa, 31
New Orleans Seafood Chowder, 48
Okra and Tomatoes, 68
Shrimp and Okra Gumbo, 42–43
Shrimp-Stuffed Bell Peppers, 59
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
Vegetable Stock, 17
Tools, 3–4
Turkey Creole Skillet, 50
V
Vegetable Stock, 17
Cajun Trinity, 24
Vegetarian
Baked Tomatoes, 66
Butternut Squash and Raisins, 70
Cajun Rockin’ Roasted Potatoes, 71
Cajun Spice Blend, 20
Chocolate Mousse, 80
Cocktail Sauce, 2595 IndexCream Puffs, 78–79
Creole Salsa, 31
Creole Spice Blend, 22
Fresh Berries with Crème  
Anglaise, 81–82
Grill Barbecue Rub, 21
Heavenly Hash Brownies, 84
Lemon Squares, 83
Okra and Tomatoes, 68Pumpkin Seed and Cheddar Cornbread 
Muffins, 65
Red, White, and Blue Hummus, 37
Spicy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 67
Vegetable Stock, 17
W
Water chestnuts
Jalapeño Poppers, 30ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This cookbook would not exist without my dear wife, Monique Boudreaux, at 
my side every step of way. I cherish every moment we have together and enjoy 
extending the family culinary heritage together in our kitchen.
In memory of my mom, Martha Boudreaux, who will always be recollected for 
inspiring me in the home kitchen at an early age and giving me the courage to 
pursue a career in culinary arts.
My dad, Joseph Boudreaux, is recognized for his compassion for food, and 
though his own cooking is now limited, dining out together is a pure pleasure 
and always appreciated.
My sister, Wanda Boudreaux, who continues the family food traditions at 
her house.
My mother-in-law, Jeannette Boyer, for sharing the same passion for food, 
dining, and family recipes as well as the adored lunch or dinner out with family 
and friends.
Chef Lee Ambrose, who mentored me at the Hyatt Hotel during my appren-
ticeship and taught me all the soups, stocks, and sauces when I held the 
saucier position.
The late Chef Chris Canan, who took me under his wing at the Columns 
Hotel and taught me the fine art of smoked seafood and how to butcher chicken, 
duck, rabbit, and who introduced me to farm fresh herbs, edible flowers, and 
wild mushrooms.
Master Baker Instructor Chef Mark Fitch, for teaching me the science of 
pastries and baking while I was making my way through the culinary apprentice-
ship program at Delgado Community College.ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Born in Lafayette, Louisiana, and raised on the West-
bank of New Orleans, Louisiana, Ryan Boudreaux 
started cooking at home when he was 13 years old. 
He was heavily influenced by his parents, Martha and 
Joe Boudreaux, both of whom cooked at home. Ryan’s 
family liked to travel and eat on the road, tasting fla -
vors of  Louisiana and the Southeast. Ryan has more 
than 37 years of professional culinary experience in 
and around the New Orleans metropolitan area, and has worked in restaurants, 
hotels, health care, offshore, and catering facilities. His range of experience 
has given him a reputation as a renaissance man. Ryan currently works as 
the food service director at a health care facility in Picayune, Mississippi, 
and still loves to cook at home with his wife, Monique, along with their three 
dogs and 12 egg-laying hens in Carriere, Mississippi, just 30 minutes north of 
New Orleans.
