2
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKExtra-virgin olive oil: Olive oil is a key component of the well-known 
 Mediterranean diet (a style of healthy eating that emphasizes whole grains, 
lots of vegetables, fruit, nuts, seafood, and modest amounts of meat) and 
is ever-present in Spanish cuisine. It is a prominent ingredient in dressings, 
sauces (such as mojo ), and gazpacho, as well as for cooking and frying. For 
deep-frying, choose a light, refined olive oil instead of an extra-virgin variety. 
Garlic: Fresh garlic flavors rice, noodles, fish, and beef dishes, as well as stews, 
soups, and sauces. It also takes the starring role in dishes such as White Garlic 
Gazpacho (page 62), a dish also known as ajoblanco  (meaning “white garlic”).
Red pepper flakes: The spicy kick of pepper flakes is perfect for certain fish 
dishes sautéed with garlic and as the finishing touch for tapas.
Saffron: Known as “red gold,” saffron is synonymous with Spanish cuisine. It is 
used for its lovely flavor, aroma, and color in stews and noodle and rice dishes. 
Although it is expensive, only a few strands are needed for any recipe.
Sea salt: Sea salt is indispensable in Spanish cuisine. Fine-textured sea salt is 
a staple for general cooking, and flaky Maldon or Ibiza salt is ideal to finish off 
meat dishes, tapas, and mushrooms.
Short-grain rice: Short-grain rice is a go-to in Spain because it releases starch 
that produces a moist and sticky texture. Although Spanish short-grain bomba 
rice (see page 3) is not widely available at major grocery stores, Arborio or 
Carnaroli rices are good substitutes.
Smoked paprika: The smoky aroma, unique flavor, and color of paprika make it 
a favorite for stews and rice dishes.
Tomatoes: Tomatoes are a Spanish favorite and feature prominently in the 
country’s cuisine. Canned tomatoes can be used in stews and in rice and 
noodle recipes in place of fresh.
NICE-TO-HAVES
For a truly authentic flavor experience, these ingredients are nice additions to your 
collection of Spanish staples.
Anchoas españoles (Spanish anchovies): Premium anchovies in Spain are 
from Cantabria in northern Spain or from l’Escala in Catalonia. It is important to 
use the best-quality olive oil–packed anchovies you can find. Y ou can source 
anchovies from both regions online.3
 Spanish Food 101Bomba rice: This short-grain rice is widely used for rice dishes and stews in 
Spain. There are several brands available online.
Bonito del norte: This albacore tuna is caught off the Bay of Biscay in the 
North Atlantic. While any canned albacore tuna can be substituted, premium 
canned bonito del norte can be found online.
Chorizo: The smoky flavor of this hard-cured sausage, which can be sweet or 
spicy, makes it a favorite for Spanish stews. Spanish chorizo is available online.  
My favorite brand is Palacios.
Cuttlefish ink or squid ink: Squid ink is essential for several representative 
and traditional dishes and, unfortunately, it has no substitute. Y our local fish-
monger or an upscale market may carry it, or you can source it online. Buy it in 
small individual packets, since most recipes won’t require much. I like to use El 
Sison because it comes in four 4-gram packets.
Pimentón de la Vera (smoked paprika): While any smoked paprika will 
suffice for my recipes, pimentón de la Vera is the most authentic. This subtle, 
smoky-flavored paprika can be easily sourced online. If you like spice, I recom-
mend you purchase picante (spicy) pimentón.
Piparras peppers: These vinegary, fiery semisweet Basque peppers are tradi-
tionally enjoyed with legume dishes, potato salad, and pintxos  served in the 
Basque Country, such as Gildas de mejillón (Mussel, Pepper, and Olive Skewers, 
page 24). Order them online.4
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOK
Spanish Wines
In Spain, a meal without wine is like a garden without flowers. Love of wine is 
embedded in Spanish culture. Eating, drinking wine, and socializing go hand in 
hand. Spanish wines are widely available in the United States. Here are the top  
10 Spanish wine varietals:
Tempranillo (red)
Tasting notes: cherry, plum, figs, cedar, tobacco, pepper
Regions:  Rioja, Castilla y Léon, Extremadura
Pairing: game, meat, stews, poultry, and charcuterie; Manchego and Idiazabal 
sheep’s milk cheeses
Garnacha (red)
Tasting notes: anise, tobacco, berries, black tea
Regions:  Catalonia, Navarra, Castilla–La Mancha, Madrid
Pairing: beef, lamb, and fish; Emmental, Jack, Camembert, and 
Gruyère cheeses
Monastrell (red)
Tasting notes: blackberry, chocolate, smoke, pepper
Regions:  the Levante, Balearic Islands, Castilla–La Mancha
Pairing: meat, lamb, rabbit, stews, rice, and mushrooms; mild and smoked 
Cheddar, Manchego, Parmesan, pecorino, and smoked Gouda cheeses
Mencia (red)
Tasting notes: pomegranate, licorice, red fruit, floral
Region:  Castilla y Léon
Pairing: game, lamb, meat, rabbit, cured ham, sausage, rice dishes with meat 5
 Spanish Food 101
Bobal (red)
Tasting notes: berries, dried green herbs, violets, cocoa
Regions:  Castilla–La Mancha, the Levante
Pairing: chicken, rabbit, octopus, rice dishes with fish, seafood, legume stews, 
and grilled foods
Verdejo (white)
Tasting notes: herbaceous, lime, grapefruit, vanilla, wood
Region:  Castilla y Léon
Pairing: white fish, shellfish, garlic
Godello (white)
Tasting notes: apple, floral, mineral, herbaceous
Region:  Galicia
Pairing: white fish and shellfish
Albariño (white)
Tasting notes: stone fruit, jasmine, freshly cut grass
Region:  Galicia
Pairing: fried tapas, charcuterie, fish, and shellfish; burrata, Gouda, Manchego, 
and goat cheeses
Viura (white)
Tasting notes: tropical fruit, apple, citrus
Regions:  Rioja, Catalonia
Pairing: charcuterie, white meat, fish, shellfish, pasta, and rice; Cheddar, Fontina, 
Manchego, Jack, triple crème, Camembert, and Brie cheeses6
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKPalomino (sherry)
Tasting notes: dry, saline, high acid
Region:  Andalucía
Fino sherry: Fermented under a blanket of yeast and made with high-acid 
grapes grown in chalky white soils, this is the driest, most saline style of sherry.
Pairing: raw seafood
Manzanilla sherry: A slightly more delicate coastal version of fino aged in the 
cellars of the town Sanlúcar de Barrameda. It has a salty tang. 
Pairing: salty snacks, peanuts, potato chips, olives, fried seafood
EQUIPMENT
Almost every recipe in this book can be made with the following equipment.
MUST-HAVES
These are all common kitchen tools that you likely already have.
Blender:  A blender is necessary to make gazpacho and various sauces.
Cast-iron skillet: A large cast-iron skillet (at least 12 inches) is used to make 
paella and fideuà  (noodles) and to sear lamb chops, pork, and beef loins.
Cutting boards: Cutting boards are necessary for your kitchen prep tasks 
such as cutting up the onions, garlic, and peppers to make a sofrito . To avoid 
cross-contamination, it is important to use separate labeled boards for fruit 
and vegetables, meat and poultry, and dry ingredients such as bread.
Mortar and pestle: A mortar and pestle is important for grinding spices and 
herbs. It can be wood, metal, or ceramic.
Sauté pans, skillets, saucepans, and soup pots: Various sizes of these pans 
and pots are used for everything from frittatas to rice and noodle dishes 
to stews.
Sieves: Sieves in different sizes are necessary to strain gazpacho and sauces 
to ensure a creamy texture. 
Skimmer: A skimmer, which is a flat metal spoon with holes, is used to lift food 
out of oil when deep-frying. It’s also useful for serving paella and rice dishes.7
 Spanish Food 101Stick blender:  A stick blender, or immersion blender, is used to make mayon -
naise and aioli, as well as other sauces.
NICE-TO-HAVES
These items will facilitate your food prep and/or add to a more authentic Spanish 
presentation.
Box grater (stainless steel): Many Spanish recipes call for grated tomato. 
Using a box grater will facilitate this task and expedite making dishes such as 
pan amb tomàquet (Tomato Toast, page 16).
Garlic press: Most Spanish recipes call for minced garlic, and a garlic press can 
do this quickly.
Hinged frittata pan (10-inch): With this pan, you can effortlessly flip your 
Spanish tortilla to perfection. They are easy to find online.
Mandoline:  A mandoline can quickly slice potatoes and onions thinly for  
tortilla española  (Spanish Potato and Onion Frittata, page 36), as well as cut 
onions for stews and rice and noodle dishes.
Paella pan: While a cast-iron skillet will suffice, paella is ideally made in a paella 
pan. Small to large paella pans are widely available online and in specialty 
cookware stores.
Terra cotta cazuela: A typical round terra cotta Spanish cazuela  (casserole 
dish) makes for a more authentic presentation. They are easy to find online.
The Spanish  
Dining Experience
Spaniards generally eat more often than Americans, with smaller meals spread out 
throughout the day: breakfast (desayuno), midmorning snack (almuerzo), lunch 
(comida), afternoon snack (merienda), and dinner (cena). Breakfast is similar to 
a continental breakfast, eaten between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m., and can consist of 
coffee, orange juice, yogurt, toast (topped with olive oil, grated tomato, and sea salt 
or butter and jam), churros, or pastries. Between 11:00 a.m. and noon, Spaniards have 
a midmorning snack, such as a sandwich (bocadillo) or a tapa with a beer, coffee, 8 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKor chocolate milk. Lunch, the most important meal of the day, is eaten between 
1:30 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. Though traditionally colleagues, family, or classmates would 
share a three-course meal over the span of two hours, these days lunch is often 
limited to just an hour. The afternoon snack, served between 5:00 p.m. and 6:30 p.m., 
coincides with the end of the school day and in some cases the end of the workday. 
Kids have milk, a sandwich, and a pastry or cookies. Adults will have another tapa, 
sandwich, and a cup of coffee or tea. Dinner, eaten between 9:00 p.m. and 10:30 p.m., 
is when families gather for a one-course meal and share the details of their day, then 
retire to the living room before going to bed.
CULINARY REGIONS OF SPAIN
Each of the many regions of Spain is a culinary treasure, with unique dishes that 
are an integral part of the local heritage. The Cantabrian, Celtic, and Mediterranean 
Seas around Spain and the country's various mountain ranges, valleys, and rivers 
make regional Spanish cuisine truly diverse.
Andalucía
Andalucía, Spain’s southernmost region, has a rich food culture that forms 
part of the renowned Mediterranean diet—fish, fruit, vegetables, and olive oil. 
Beach cafés serve delicacies such as skewers of sardines, wedge clams, white 
shrimp, and fried smelt. One of Andalucía’s most famous dishes is lubina a la 
sal (Salt-Roasted Sea Bass, page 118).
Aragón, Navarra, and Rioja
These three regions in northern Spain are known for their stews and grilled 
meats. Navarra, the garden of the Basque Country, is famous for its menestra 
de verduras (Vegetable Mélange, page 48). Rioja wine pairs exquisitely with the 
area’s succulent bean and pork stews and lamb dishes. In fact, the grape vines 
are often used for grilling chuletillas de cordero al sarmiento (Vine Shoot–
Grilled Lamb Chops, page 115).
Asturias and Cantabria
The cuisine of Asturias and Cantabria is based on a wealth of seafood from 
the Cantabrian Sea and cattle, game, cheese, and legumes from the region's 
mountains and valleys. The region is known for dishes such as fabada  (white 
bean and pork stew)—a wonderful treat after a hike up to the mountain village 
of Tresviso—and flan de queso (Cheese Flan, page 134) from a delightful road-
side restaurant in the town of Cahecho.9 Spanish Food 101Basque Country
A big part of the food culture in the Basque Country dates to 1870, when 
txokos (gastronomical societies) started in San Sebastián, gathering to 
socialize, cook, eat, and drink. Today, the region boasts 33 Michelin stars and 
is known for its creative pintxos , artisanal bites, and sidrerias  (cider houses), 
where salt cod omelets and grilled steak are washed down with hard cider.
Castilla–La Mancha
Castilla–La Mancha is home to the windmills made famous in Don Quixote. The 
region’s Manchego cheese is its best ambassador. The pastoral cuisine of the 
region features dishes such as migas de pastor  (toasted day-old bread with 
pork and grapes), pisto manchego  (Spanish Ratatouille, page 58), and sopa de 
ajo (garlic soup).
Castilla y León
Castilla y León’s cuisine features products of the earth made into hearty 
dishes to combat the region's extreme weather. It is famous for its roasted 
lamb, goat, and pork made in wood-fired clay ovens. Delicious hearty stews like 
cocido maragato  (chickpea-pork stew) are perfect to warm and energize you 
for the Astorga stage of the Camino de Santiago (pilgrimage to Santiago).
Catalonia
Bordering France, Catalonia has the most refined cuisine in Spain. It is home to 
the vibrant city of Barcelona and is the cradle to Ferran Adriá, the pioneer of 
the molecular gastronomy movement. His restaurant, El Bulli, was named best 
restaurant in the world for many years.
Extremadura
Extremadura is home to the jewel of Spanish cuisine, jamón ibérico de bellota, 
ham produced from acorn-fed black Iberian pigs. In addition to jamón , the 
region’s rural cuisine is represented best by chorizo (sausage seasoned with 
Spanish paprika), torta del casar  (creamy sheep’s milk cheese), and cherries 
from the Jerte Valley.
Galicia
Galicia is known for the best seafood in Spain, which comes from the sea, estu-
aries, and rivers of the region. Octopus, stone crab, oysters, clams, and cockles 
are consumed in abundance here, alongside albariño or godello wines from 
the region.10 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMadrid
Madrid is the crossroads of all regional cuisines in Spain. Culinary highlights 
include tortilla de patata from the restaurant Casa Dani and cocido madrileño 
(Madrid-Style Chickpea Stew, page 75) at Lhardy or La Bola. A typical way 
to end a long night out in Madrid or start the day off right is with churros 
con chocolate  (Churros with Hot Chocolate, page 132) from Chocolatería 
San Ginés.
Valencia and Murcia
Murcia is the vegetable garden of Spain, with greenhouses that provide Spain 
and the rest of Europe with fresh produce throughout the year. Valencia’s 
signature products are oranges and rice, such as Calasparra, a type of bomba 
rice, the main ingredient for the world-famous paella valenciana .CHAPTER TWO4Tapas, Pintxos, and 
Other Small Plates
Small plates have swept the globe, and pintxos  and tapas are the best 
ambassadors of this distinctive culinary wave. A pintxo is placed on a base 
such as bread or skewered, whereas a tapa is placed on a small plate and 
requires flatware. What follows are traditional, timeless recipes to enjoy 
with an aperitif, as a starter, light lunch, dinner, or brunch.
Fair-Style Squid with Potatoes  14
Garlic Shrimp  15
Tomato Toast  16
Crab Pintxo with Mayonnaise  17
Cured Ham Croquettes  18
Bay Scallop Pie  20
Spanish Potato Salad  22
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and Olive Skewers)  24
Toasted Bread Crumbs from La Mancha  26
Fierce Potatoes  28
Moorish Pork Loin Skewers  30
Cod Brandade with Toast  32
Fried Calamari  34
Marinated Shellfish Salad  35
Spanish Potato and Onion Frittata  36
13Garlic Shrimp (page 15)14 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKFair-Style Squid with 
Potatoes
CALAMARES Á FEIRA CON CACHELOS
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Leaving Galicia without having polbo á feira (fair-style octopus) is impossi-
ble. The dish’s aroma emanates from pulperias, restaurants that only serve 
dishes made with pulpo (octopus). This small plate is traditionally served on 
a round wooden dish with potatoes that have been boiled with the octopus, 
drizzled with olive oil, and seasoned with picante (hot) or sweet smoked 
paprika. This version uses squid, which is easier to fi  nd. Have a crusty loaf 
of bread? Use slices to soak up the paprika-seasoned oil. SERVES 4
6 medium Yukon Gold 
potatoes
1 pound calamari rings
1 head garlic1 bay leaf
1 teaspoon fi  ne sea salt
Flaky sea salt
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oilSmoked paprika
Cayenne pepper
1. In a medium soup pot, combine the potatoes, calamari rings, whole head of 
garlic, bay leaf, fi  ne sea salt, and enough cold water to cover. Bring to a boil over 
high heat and cook for 25 to 30 minutes, until the potatoes are fork-tender.
2. Drain well. (Discard the garlic and bay leaf.) Peel and slice the potatoes. Spread 
them on a platter and season with fl  aky sea salt. Scatter the calamari rings on 
top of the potatoes. Drizzle the olive oil over the calamari and potatoes. Sprinkle 
the paprika all over and season to taste with cayenne. Store leftovers in an air-
tight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
This dish traditionally uses octopus. If you fi  nd vacuum-packed precooked octopus, prepare 
the potatoes as instructed above without the calamari. Pan-grill the octopus in olive oil in a 
cast-iron skillet, slice it, then distribute it over the potatoes. Season with fl  aky sea salt, the 
olive oil, paprika, and cayenne.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with an albariño from Rías Baixas or a young red of the mencia varietal 
from Bierzo.
15 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small PlatesGarlic Shrimp
GAMBAS AL AJILLO
Prep time: 35 minutes, plus up to 1 hour to marinate  |  Cook time: 10 minutes
This beloved shrimp dish is served in a cazuela (terra cotta casserole 
dish) with sizzling garlic oil and is topped off   with sherry. To fully enjoy 
the garlic shrimp experience, dip your bread—barquito (little boat)—in 
the sauce and let it soak up these most representative fl  avors of Spain. 
SERVES 4
1 1/2 pounds medium 
shrimp, peeled, deveined, 
and rinsed
3 tablespoons sherry or dry 
white wine
Sea saltFreshly ground 
black pepper
10 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, for shallow-frying
1/2 teaspoon red 
pepper fl  akes1 teaspoon sherry vinegar
20 garlic cloves, sliced
1 parsley sprig, chopped
Bread, for serving
1. In a large bowl, combine the shrimp, sherry, and enough cold water to just barely 
cover. Set aside to marinate for at least 30 minutes or up to 1 hour. Drain the 
shrimp, reserving the liquid. Dry the shrimp with paper towels and season with 
salt and pepper.
2. Pour olive oil into a large sauté pan or skillet, add the pepper fl  akes, and heat 
over medium-low heat until hot. Add the garlic and cook for 3 minutes until 
lightly brown.
3. Add shrimp, 1 teaspoon of sherry vinegar, and 3 tablespoons of the reserved 
marinating liquid, and season with salt. Increase the heat to medium-high and 
cook for about 5 minutes, or until the shrimp turn a nice pink color and are just 
cooked through.
4. To serve, pour shrimp and garlic sauce into a bowl, garnish with the parsley, and 
serve with bread and a glass of white wine (see Wine Pairing). Store any left-
overs in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Use a cazuela  (terra cotta casserole dish) for a more authentic presentation. These can be 
purchased online in large or mini sizes.
WINE PAIRING 
A fruity wine of the albariño varietal from Rias Baixas or a chilled fi  no sherry from Jerez 
will pair nicely with this dish.
16 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKTomato Toast
PAN AMB TOMÀQUET
Prep time: 15 minutes
Ideal for breakfast, snacks, appetizers, and tapas, this Spanish delicacy 
originated in Catalonia and is enjoyed all over Spain. It is easy to prepare 
and easy to customize. You can top it off with Serrano ham or prosciutto, 
anchovies, or olive oil–packed tuna, or be creative and build your pintxo 
on top of it. Try using campari tomatoes and a rustic bread.  SERVES 4
4 tomatoes on the 
vine, halved
Fine sea salt5 teaspoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, plus more for 
drizzling8 slices rustic 
country-style bread
Flaky sea salt
1. Use the large holes of a box grater to grate the tomatoes into a bowl. Season to 
taste with fine sea salt and mix well. Add the olive oil and mix well with a fork 
or a whisk. (The tomato mixture can be stored in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 4 days.)
2. Toast the bread slices in a toaster or on a griddle until golden.
3. To serve, spoon the tomato mixture onto the toast. Sprinkle with flaky sea salt 
and drizzle with olive oil. 
TECHNIQUE TIP
In a blender, combine 11/2 cups cherry tomatoes, the olive oil, sea salt, and a couple of fresh 
basil leaves and blend until it reaches your desired consistency. Spoon this delicious sauce on 
little baguette toasts at a moment’s notice.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Catalonia, traditionally a garlic clove is rubbed onto the toast, and the tomato isn’t grated 
but is also rubbed on the toast. 17 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small PlatesCrab Pintxo with 
Mayonnaise
PINTXO DE CHATKA CON MAYONESA
Prep time: 10 minutes, plus 10 minutes to chill
Pintxeando (“while eating pintxos”) is a Basque saying that means “you 
share, you laugh, you debate, you enjoy”—in other words, you live life 
through magical small bites. Pintxos are to be enjoyed before lunch or 
dinner and end early. SERVES 4
1 pound lump crabmeat, 
shredded
1 cup mayonnaise, 
preferably homemade 
(see Aioli variation, 
page 40)1 loaf ciabatta bread, cut 
into 3/4-inch-thick slices
1 tablespoon fi  nely 
chopped fresh chives
10 Little Gem lettuce leaves, 
separated and washedFlaky sea salt
1 teaspoon sherry vinegar
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1. In a bowl, mix together the crab and mayonnaise. Cover with plastic wrap and 
refrigerate for 20 to 30 minutes.
2. Place the ciabatta slices around the edges of a platter and top with the crab 
mixture. Garnish with the chives.
3. Place the lettuce leaves in the middle of the platter. Season the lettuce with sea 
salt and the vinegar, then drizzle with the olive oil. Sprinkle the whole platter 
with the smoked paprika and serve.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Place piquillo peppers on the bread before topping with the crab; swap out the crab for 
shrimp; top the crab with asadillo de pimientos andaluz (Roasted Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía, page 42); or garnish with grated hard-boiled egg on top. The bread can be served 
toasted or not.
WINE PAIRING 
When out for pintxos in the Basque Country, it is typical to order a zurito , a small lowball 
glass equivalent to half a beer in volume, fi  lled with either a draft beer or wine. The beer is 
always a lighter draft beer similar to a pilsner, and the wine a Rueda verdejo, Rioja, or 
Ribera del Duero tempranillo.
18
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKCured Ham Croquettes
CROQUETAS DE JAMÓN
Prep time: 10 minutes, plus 3 to 4 hours to chill  |  Cook time: 25 minutes
Croquetas are one of Spain’s favorite small bites. They can be made 
out of whatever you have in the fridge, be it stew meat, fish, or veg-
gies. The secret is the light, creamy béchamel. For a richer croquette, 
use 3 cups whole milk and 1/4 cup heavy cream in the béchamel.  
MAKES 40 TO 50 CROQUETTES
FOR THE BÉCHAMEL
8 tablespoons (1 stick) 
unsalted butter
1 medium yellow onion, 
finely chopped 
Sea salt
Freshly ground white or 
black pepperPinch ground nutmeg
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
31/4 cups whole milk
FOR THE CROQUETTES
1 cup chopped prosciutto
1/4 cup beef broth or 
chicken broth4 large eggs
2 cups fine dried 
bread crumbs
Light, refined olive oil, for 
deep-frying
TO MAKE THE BÉCHAMEL
1. In a large nonstick sauté pan or skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. When 
very hot, add the onion and a pinch of salt and cook for about 5 minutes, until 
translucent. 
2. Whisk in some pepper and the nutmeg, then slowly whisk in the flour and cook, 
whisking constantly to ensure there are no lumps of flour, for about 3 minutes. 
3. Slowly add the milk and cook, whisking constantly, for about 3 minutes, until the 
sauce thickens. The béchamel is done when you can see the bottom of the pan 
as you draw a wooden spoon from one side to the other.
TO MAKE THE CROQUETTES
4. While whisking constantly, add the prosciutto to the béchamel, then slowly 
whisk in the broth and cook for 5 minutes, until the mixture bubbles.
5. Transfer the mixture to a 9-by-12-inch baking dish, cover with plastic wrap, and 
refrigerate until set, 3 to 4 hours.
6. Set up a dredging station: Beat the eggs in a shallow bowl. Spread the bread 
crumbs in a second shallow bowl. Line a large baking sheet with wax paper.19 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates7. Scoop out tablespoon-size portions of the chilled croquette 
mixture and roll into 1-inch-long oblong balls. Dip a ball into 
the egg and then roll it in the bread crumbs until thoroughly 
coated. Place on the lined baking sheet. Repeat the process 
with the rest of the croquette mixture.
8. Pour about 21/2    inches of olive oil into a deep but not wide 
pot. Heat the oil to between 340° and 350°F (check with a 
deep-fry thermometer). 
9. Line a plate with paper towels. Working in small batches to 
avoid crowding, gently lower the croquettes into the oil and 
fry for about 1 minute, until they are a nice golden color. 
With a slotted spoon, transfer the croquettes to the paper 
towels to drain.
10. Arrange the croquettes on a serving plate and serve. Leftover, 
uncooked croquettes may be frozen fl  at in a resealable freezer 
bag or airtight container for up to 3 months. To reheat, thaw 
the frozen croquettes for 1 hour (they will still be partially 
frozen), then fry them as directed in steps 8 and 9.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Substitute cured Iberian ham or Serrano ham for the prosciutto. Or 
make the croquettes with chorizo, preferably Palacios brand Spanish 
chorizo (fi  nd it online).
WINE PAIRING 
A fruity and aromatic wine such as chardonnay, garnacha, or 
tempranillo is best to pair with a tapa of croquetas.
20
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKBay Scallop Pie
EMPANADA DE ZAMBURIÑAS
Prep time: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to rise  |  Cook time: 1 hour
This Galician pie is the iconic tapa of Spain’s northwestern Celtic region 
and is found at many restaurants along the Santiago pilgrimage route. 
The pie can be as creative as you like, with a sautéed onion base and a 
filling of vegetables, meat, or seafood, including bay scallops, as here. The 
pie dough can be made of corn or wheat flour. If you use a premade pie 
crust, skip straight to making the filling.  SERVES 4
FOR THE PIE DOUGH
1 (1/4-ounce) packet active 
dry yeast
1 cup warm water 
(about 110°F)
1 pound (about 2 cups) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1 large egg
1 teaspoon sea salt1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more for greasing 
the bowl
FOR THE PIE
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, finely 
chopped 
1/4 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes
1 yellow onion, 
finely chopped1 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
more for seasoning
2 tablespoons finely 
chopped fresh parsley
1 red bell pepper, chopped
1/2 cup white wine
8 ounces bay scallops
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
All-purpose flour, for dusting
1 large egg, beaten
1 parsley sprig, for garnish
TO MAKE THE PIE DOUGH
1. In a small bowl, stir the yeast into the warm water just until dissolved. Set aside 
for about 2 minutes to hydrate the yeast.
2. Place the flour in a large bowl. Make a well in the middle of the flour. Crack the 
egg into the well. Add the yeast mixture, salt, and olive oil. Begin mixing the 
ingredients with a wooden spoon. As the dough starts to come together, switch to 
mixing with your hands. The dough should have a smooth, slightly sticky texture.
3. Dust a clean work surface with flour. Turn the dough out onto the surface and 
lightly dust the top with flour. Knead the dough for 5 to 10 minutes, until it 
springs back immediately when pressed with a finger. 
4. Roll the dough into a ball. Grease a large bowl with olive oil. Place the dough in 
the bowl and cover with a clean kitchen towel. Place in a warm area and let rise 
until doubled in size, at least 1 hour but no more than 3 hours.21 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small PlatesTO MAKE THE PIE
5. Preheat the oven to 390°F. Line a sheet pan with parch-
ment paper.
6. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the oil over medium heat. 
When hot, add the garlic and pepper flakes and stir. Add the 
onion and salt and sauté for 2 minutes, until the onions have 
softened. Reduce the heat to low, cover, and cook for 5 minutes. 
Add the parsley and bell pepper, increase the heat to medium, 
and cook for 10 minutes, until the peppers are firm-tender. Stir 
in the wine and cook, stirring occasionally, for 3 minutes to 
burn off the alcohol.
7. Season the scallops with salt, add to the pan, and cook for 
about 3 minutes, until opaque. Stir in the smoked paprika 
and cook for 3 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and 
set aside to cool.
8. Lightly dust a work surface with flour. Divide the dough in 
half and form each half into a ball. Lightly dust a rolling pin 
with flour and roll each dough ball into a round or rectangle 
1/8 to 1/4 inch thick. 
9. Place one of the dough rounds/rectangles on the prepared 
sheet pan. Spread half of the filling over the dough, leaving 
a generous 1-inch border. Gently place the second dough 
round/rectangle over the filling. Seal the pie by pinching the 
edges together gently between your thumb and index finger 
and slightly pulling the outer edge with each pinch. Brush 
the beaten egg over the top and edges of the dough. Using a 
sharp knife, cut three slits in the center of the dough.
10. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, until the crust turns golden.
11. Remove the pie from the oven and let cool for 15 minutes. 
Place it on a large platter garnished with a sprig of parsley, 
ready to be cut and served. Store leftovers in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.22
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSpanish Potato Salad
ENSALADILLA RUSA
Prep time: 20 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Ensaladilla rusa—Russian salad—is so named because it was originally 
made with partridge, smoked salmon, or caviar. The modern version—one 
of Spain’s most popular and affordable tapas—is made with vegetables 
and albacore tuna. It’s perfect to make ahead and serve chilled on a hot 
summer day. Decorate the salad with diced pimientos, boiled shrimp,  
or crabmeat.  SERVES 6
21/2 pounds Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and 
quartered
3 carrots, peeled but whole
Fine sea salt
1 teaspoon extra-virgin 
olive oil1/2 cup fresh or frozen 
green peas
8 hard-boiled eggs, divided
1 cup mayonnaise, 
preferably homemade 
(see Aioli variation, 
page 40)1/2 cup Castelvetrano olives, 
pitted and chopped, plus 
10 whole pitted olives
2 (6.7-ounce) cans olive 
oil–packed albacore 
tuna, drained
1/2 cup pepperoncini 
(optional)
1. In a large soup pot, combine the potatoes, carrots, 1 teaspoon salt, and water to 
cover. Bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and 
cook for 25 to 30 minutes, until the potatoes are fork-tender. Drain and set aside 
to cool. When cool, dice the potatoes and carrots and place in a large bowl.
2. In a small skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the peas 
and sauté for 2 minutes, or until they warmed through. Season the peas with a 
pinch of salt and add to the bowl with the potatoes and carrots.
3. Chop 5 hard-boiled eggs and place in the bowl with the vegetables. Add 1/2 cup 
of the mayonnaise and 1 teaspoon salt and mix well. Add the chopped olives, 23 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Platestuna, and remaining 1/2    cup mayonnaise and mix well. Taste 
and season with more salt if needed.
4. Grate the remaining 3 hard-boiled eggs. Garnish the potato 
salad with the grated eggs, whole pepperoncini (if using), 
and whole olives. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate 
for at least 30 minutes before serving, or refrigerate in an 
airtight container for up to 3 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
If you have marinated roasted red peppers on hand, homemade or 
store-bought, you can garnish this salad with them. For a more 
authentic Spanish taste, swap the pepperoncini for piparras  (Basque 
peppers in vinegar; see page 3), which you can easily fi  nd online.
WINE PAIRING 
Any refreshing summer beverage pairs well with this dish, such as a 
Lemon Summer Shandy (page 140) or Sangria (page 139).
24 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKGildas (Mussel, Pepper, 
and Olive Skewers)
GILDAS DE MEJILLÓN
Prep time: 50 minutes, plus up to overnight to marinate  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
This pintxo was named in honor of Rita Hayworth’s titular character in 
the 1946 Charles Vidor film Gilda, which was censored at the time in 
Spain. This green, spicy bite is crafted to emulate Rita’s sexy and witty 
personality. Outside the Basque Country, it is known as a banderilla. 
MAKES 20 SKEWERS
20 mussels (about  
2 pounds), scrubbed  
and debearded
1 cup white wine
3 bay leaves, divided1 cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more for drizzling
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1 tablespoon 
smoked paprika
1 cup red wine vinegar20 whole pepperoncini 
(about a 16-ounce jar) 
20 Castelvetrano olives 
(about a 16-ounce 
jar), pitted
1. In large soup pot, combine the mussels, white wine, and 1 bay leaf. Cover the pot, 
place it over medium-high heat, and steam the mussels for about 3 minutes, or 
until the mussels open. Discard any mussels that do not open. Drain the mus-
sels, reserving the cooking liquid. Remove the mussels from their shells and 
place in a bowl to cool.
2. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium-high heat. 
When hot, add the garlic and remaining 2 bay leaves. When the garlic is lightly 
browned, about 2 minutes, remove the pan from the heat. Quickly whisk in the 
smoked paprika. Add the vinegar and reserved mussel cooking liquid and mix 
well. It will bubble, so be careful not to burn yourself. Set aside to cool to room 
temperature.
3. Pour the cooled garlic oil over the mussels. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and 
refrigerate to marinate the mussels for at least 45 minutes, or better yet over -
night. (The longer you marinate them, the more pronounced the vinegar flavor 
will be.)25 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates
4. To serve, on each of 20 skewers, thread 1 pepperoncini,  
1 mussel, 1 olive, and another mussel. Place the skewers on 
a plate and drizzle well with extra-virgin olive oil. Store any 
leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
For a more authentic Gilda, swap the mussels for olive oil–packed 
Spanish anchovies from Cantabria or Catalonia and swap in piparras  
(Basque peppers) for the pepperoncini.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
This small bite pairs perfectly with a nice cold pilsner-style beer, a fino 
sherry, or vermouth.26 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKToasted Bread Crumbs 
from La Mancha
MIGAS MANCHEGAS
Prep time: 20 minutes, plus 2 hours to chill  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
Migas date back to the Al-Andalus years, when Muslims brought new 
methods of cooking with bread, enriching the Iberian Peninsula’s food 
culture. Migas manchegas is a typical breakfast for hunters, perfect for 
warming up the body ahead of a long day outdoors. For brunch, top this 
bite with a fried or poached egg.  SERVES 4
4 cups crusty French 
bread cubes
2 teaspoons fine sea salt
11/2 cups water
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided5 ounces pancetta, diced
1 link chorizo, diced
4 marinated sun-dried 
tomatoes, chopped
1 head garlic, separated into 
cloves and peeled1 teaspoon smoked paprika
4 large eggs, for serving 
(optional)
1. Place the bread cubes in a large bowl. Dissolve the salt in the water and pour it 
over the bread. Mix gently. Place the bread on a clean kitchen towel and wrap it. 
Then return the bundle to the same bowl, moving the bundle around in the bowl 
to distribute the moisture evenly. Place the bowl in the refrigerator for at least  
2 hours or overnight.
2. In a large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the pancetta and cook for 5 minutes, or until crispy. Add the chorizo and 
sun-dried tomatoes and cook for 3 minutes, until well browned. Drain off any 
grease and set aside in a bowl.
3. In the same skillet, heat the remaining 3 tablespoons of olive oil. When hot, 
add the garlic cloves and paprika and cook for about 2 minutes to brown. If you 
choose, you can leave the garlic in the pan and proceed to the next step. Or, 
using a slotted spoon, remove the garlic.
4. Add some of the bread to the pan without crowding the bread cubes. Increase 
the heat to medium-high and sauté, stirring constantly to prevent from burning, 
remove moisture, and lightly toast. As the bread begins to toast, add more bread. 
Toasting all the bread will take about 30 minutes.27 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates5. Add the chorizo/pancetta/sun-dried tomato mixture to the 
pan and stir until all of the ingredients are mixed together, 
about 5 minutes.
6. If desired, fry or poach the eggs and serve on top of the 
toasted bread crumbs.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Try adding sweet raisins and grapes to contrast this dish’s saltiness. 
Add the raisins with the sun-dried tomatoes in step 2. Use the grapes 
as a garnish.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a cava or with a Rioja of the tempranillo, graciano, 
or mazuelo varietal.
28
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKFierce Potatoes
PATATAS BRAVAS
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes
It’s not clear if patatas bravas originated at Casa Pellico or at La Casona, 
two bars in Madrid that no longer exist. What is remembered is that the 
bars’ long entry lines were due to this dish. There’s controversy over 
whether the authentic sauce contains tomatoes, which this recipe calls 
for. Many bars in Madrid serve this dish with Aioli (page 40) instead.  
SERVES 4
6 Yukon gold 
potatoes, peeled
3 teaspoons fine sea salt, 
divided, plus more for 
seasoning
1/4 cup olive oil
1 medium yellow 
onion, sliced2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes
1 tablespoon 
smoked paprika
1 cup Spanish Tomato 
Sauce (page 59)3/4 cup chicken broth or 
vegetable broth
2 tablespoons sherry vinegar
3 to 4 cups olive oil, 
for frying
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1. Roughly cut the potatoes into irregular 1-inch chunks.
2. Fill a medium soup pot with enough water to cover the potatoes, add  
2 teaspoons of salt, and bring to a boil over high heat. Add the potatoes and 2  
teaspoons of the salt and cook for 5 to 7 minutes, until the potatoes are almost 
but not fully cooked (this will help achieve a moist and cooked interior after  
they are fried). Drain the potatoes, dry them well, and set aside.
3. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the onion, garlic, and remaining 1 teaspoon salt and mix well. Cover, reduce 
the heat to medium-low, and cook for 5 minutes to soften the onion. Uncover 
and cook for 10 minutes, until the onion is soft and translucent. Stir in the 
pepper flakes and smoked paprika.
4. Stir in the tomato sauce and cook for 2 minutes. Add the broth, bring to a 
simmer, then reduce the heat to low and cook for 3 minutes to reduce a bit. Stir 
in the vinegar. Transfer the sauce to a blender or food processor and blend for  
3 to 4 minutes, until it has a creamy texture. Set aside.29 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates5. Pour about 21/2 inches of olive oil into a heavy pot. Heat 
over medium-high heat to 350°F (test with a deep-fry ther -
mometer). 
6. Line a plate with paper towels. Working in batches to avoid 
crowding, fry the potatoes for 10 minutes, until golden and 
crispy. Use a slotted spoon to transfer the potatoes to the 
paper towel–lined plate. Sprinkle with salt and black pepper 
while still hot.
7. Serve in a bowl with the sauce drizzled on top.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
Pair with a refreshing beverage to put out the fire, such as a beer, a rosé 
from Navarra, or a rosé cava.30
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMoorish Pork  
Loin Skewers
PINCHO MORUNO
Prep time: 10 minutes, plus 30 minutes to marinate  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
The Moorish skewer is popular in Ceuta and Melilla, tiny Spanish 
enclaves on the northern shores of Morocco, where you can enjoy them 
with té moruno, a Moroccan green tea with mint. The skewers also appear 
in bars throughout Spain, sometimes made with lamb or chicken but 
mostly with pork. For the best flavor, marinate these skewers overnight.  
SERVES 4
FOR THE MARINADE
10 garlic cloves, peeled
1/4 cup ground cumin
10 saffron threads
2 small yellow onions, 
finely chopped
8 tablespoons fresh lemon 
juice, divided5 tablespoons 
smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon
6 cilantro sprigs, 
finely chopped
2 teaspoons sea salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
FOR THE SKEWERS
2 pounds pork loin, cut into 
1-inch cubes
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Flaky sea salt
1 cilantro sprig, for garnish
1 lemon, halved, for serving
TO MAKE THE MARINADE
1. Place the garlic, cumin, and saffron in the blender to create a paste.
2. Set aside 1 cup of the marinade to heat and serve as a sauce. In a medium  
bowl, mix together the onions and 2 tablespoons of the lemon juice, coating 
thoroughly. Add the garlic mixture, smoked paprika,  cinnamon, cilantro, salt, 
pepper, olive oil, and remaining 6 tablespoons lemon juice. Mix well.
TO MAKE THE SKEWERS
3. In a medium bowl, combine the pork and the marinade and stir to coat. Set the 
remaining marinade aside. Cover the pork with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 
at least 30 minutes, or up to overnight.
4. Thread the pork onto 8-inch skewers.31 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates5. In a 12-inch cast-iron skillet, heat the olive oil over high heat 
until hot. Working in batches, add the skewers of pork in a 
single layer and cook for 3 minutes. Flip and cook for 3 min-
utes more, or until cooked through. The marinade will keep 
the skewers moist and juicy as they cook.
6. In a small saucepan, heat the reserved marinade until hot.
7. Arrange the skewers on a plate and sprinkle with flaky sea 
salt. Drizzle the warmed sauce on top of the skewers. Gar -
nish with a sprig of cilantro and the lemon halves. Store any 
leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 days.
DIFFERENT SPINS
Lamb, boneless chicken, or beef can be substituted for the pork loin. 
For a spicier Moorish skewer, add a pinch of cayenne pepper. In Spain, 
this is done with picante (hot) paprika.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
To be the most authentic, the skewers should be served with Moroccan 
green tea with mint, but they also pair well with a tempranillo crianza, 
aged in oak for 12 months.32
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKCod Brandade with Toast
TOSTADAS CON BRANDADA DE BACALAO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
This tapa can be served in a bowl with toast or spread over Tomato Toast 
(page 16) and served “au gratin.” It can be the used as the base for many 
pintxos, including pintxos of brandade, piquillo peppers, and quince paste 
or brandade, microgreens, and figs. Invent your own enticing combina -
tion. Buen provecho (bon appétit)!  SERVES 6
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
4 garlic cloves, sliced
11/4 pounds rock cod fillets
2 pinches ground nutmegSalt and pepper to taste 
2/3 cup whole milk, at room 
temperature1 baguette, cut into  
3/4-inch-thick slices 
2 tablespoons finely 
chopped fresh parsley
1. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the garlic and cook for 2 minutes, or until lightly browned. Using a skimmer 
or slotted spoon, remove the garlic slices (before they turn dark brown) and set 
them aside.
2. Line a plate with paper towels. Cut cod fillets in half. Place the cod in the pan 
and cook for 2 minutes on each side, until opaque. Remove the pan from the 
heat, cover, and let sit for 5 minutes to finish cooking. Using a skimmer or 
slotted spoon, transfer the cod to the paper towel–lined plate to drain. Do not 
discard the oil in the pan.
3. Using a mortar and pestle, crush the cod into a paste with a pinch of nutmeg. 
You may have to do this in small chunks depending on how big your mortar is. 
Remove and discard any fish bones you find.
4. In a small saucepan, combine the milk and a pinch of nutmeg. Bring it just to a 
simmer over medium heat, then remove from the heat.
5. Transfer the crushed cod to a blender. Add salt and pepper to taste. With the 
blender running on low speed, slowly add the reserved oil from the pan, little 
by little. The cod will have a paste-like consistency. Next, add the hot milk little 
by little, letting the fish paste absorb it. Place the brandade in a bowl and set the 
bowl on a serving platter.33 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates6. Toast the baguette slices in the oven or toaster.
7. Serve the brandade surrounded by the toasts. Top the bran-
dade with the lightly browned garlic and the parsley. Store 
leftover brandade in an airtight container in the refrigerator 
for up to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
Brandade recipes from the Basque Country tend to include potato, 
which helps to thicken the brandade. To incorporate potato into this 
recipe, peel 1 russet potato and cut into medium dice. Boil it in salted 
water until fork-tender. Add the potato to the blender with the crushed 
cod in step 5 and proceed with the recipe.
WINE PAIRING 
Brandade pairs well with Manzanilla sherry or a chilled Txacoli. A 
verdejo or ribeiro white wine will also pair well with it.
34 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKFried Calamari
RABAS DE CALAMAR
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
Una de rabas is a typical phrase heard in bars in the Spanish city of 
Santander. It means “Waiter, give me a plate of calamari.” It might be 
the Cantabrian breeze or the way the rabas are cut into strips that makes 
enjoying the dish in this region exceptionally delightful. The breading 
may diff  er from bar to bar: Some use a batter of eggs and fl  our, while 
others use half bread and half fl  our. In Santander, calamari are always 
coated with seasoned fl  our. SERVES 4
2 cups all-purpose fl  our
2 teaspoons sea salt, plus 
more for seasoning
1/2 teaspoon ground 
white pepper1 pound squid, cleaned, 
bodies cut lengthwise 
into 1/2-inch-wide strips, 
tentacles kept separate
Refi  ned olive oil, for 
deep-frying1 lemon, cut into wedges, 
for serving
Aioli (page 40) or Spicy 
Mojo Sauce (page 51), 
for serving
1. In a large bowl, mix together the fl  our, salt, and white pepper. Add the squid, a 
few pieces at a time, and toss until fully coated.
2. Pour 3 inches of oil into a deep pot and heat to 340° to 350°F (test with a 
deep-fry thermometer). Reduce the heat under the pot as needed to maintain the 
temperature of the oil. 
3. Line a plate with paper towels. Working in batches, gently drop the squid into 
the oil and fry for 3 to 5 minutes, until golden brown. With a slotted spoon or 
tongs, transfer to the paper towel–lined plate to drain. Season with salt while hot. 
4. Serve hot on a big plate or in individual bowls with the lemon wedges and aioli 
or mojo alongside.
SUBSTITUTION
Instead of a whole squid, you can use frozen calamari rings. Thaw the rings before using.
WINE PAIRING 
Enjoy the calamari with a verdejo from Rueda or a young white wine of the malvasia varietal 
from Lanzarote.
35 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small PlatesMarinated Shellﬁ  sh Salad
SALPICÓN DE MARISCOS
Prep time: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to marinate
This tapa is especially common in Andalucía, where shellfi  sh and olive oil 
are plentiful. Enjoy it chilled over lettuce as a light summer dinner, as an 
appetizer for a special celebration, or in a martini glass or on a tartlet as a 
passed hors d’oeuvre for a cocktail party. SERVES 4
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
6 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 tablespoons fi  no 
sherry or port2 pinches fl  aky sea salt
1/8 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1/2 sweet yellow onion, 
fi  nely chopped4 tomatoes on the vine
1 pound cooked shrimp, 
peeled, deveined, and cut 
into 1/2-inch pieces
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the lemon juice, olive oil, and sherry. Add the 
salt, white pepper, and onion and mix well.
2. Using a serrated knife, peel the tomatoes. Cut them in half and remove the 
seeds. Finely chop. Add to the bowl with the onion and mix well.
3. Stir the shrimp into the bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate 
for at least 1 hour, or up to (preferably) 6 hours.
4. Serve the salad in its bowl or portion it into champagne coupes or martini 
glasses. Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATIONS
This recipe varies immensely from bar to bar or family to family, using crab, mussels, clams, 
or even lobster instead of shrimp. Some variations add fi  nely chopped red and green bell 
peppers.
WINE PAIRING 
This refreshing dish, with its sweetness and acidity, pairs well with a sauvignon blanc.
36 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSpanish Potato and  
Onion Frittata
TORTILLA ESPAÑOLA
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
Most of Spain loves a tortilla, perfect for any meal: breakfast, midmorn-
ing snack, lunch, or dinner. It is one of Spanish cuisine’s most symbolic 
dishes. Casa Dani in Madrid’s Mercado de la Paz serves tortillas by the 
hundreds to the locals and is considered the best tortilla in town by many. 
Although making a tortilla is a bit labor-intensive, every bite makes it 
worth the effort!  SERVES 6
9 large eggs
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, 
thinly sliced1 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 to 3 cups grapeseed oil
7 medium Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and 
thinly slicedSliced tomato or Roasted 
Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía (page 42), 
for serving
1. In a large bowl, beat the eggs. Set aside.
2. In an 8- to 10-inch nonstick skillet (make sure you have a plate that will fit fully 
over the skillet), heat the olive oil over low heat. When hot, add the onion and 
salt and sauté for 2 minutes, until the onion softens. Cover the pan with a lid 
and cook for 5 minutes. Uncover and cook for 10 to 15 minutes, until translucent. 
Drain the onion and add it to the bowl with the eggs.
3. In the same pan, heat 11/2 inches of grapeseed oil over medium heat. When it is 
hot, work in batches to fry the potatoes until they are cooked through, 12 to 15 
minutes. As you work, use a skimmer to transfer the fried potatoes to a colander 
to drain, then add them to the bowl with the eggs. Add more oil to the pan as 
needed between batches, heating the oil until hot before adding the potatoes. 
Between batches, press the potatoes and onions into the eggs with a whisk, 
binding them together. This will add texture to your finished tortilla.
4. Once all the potatoes are fried, drain off most of the oil remaining in the pan, 
leaving just enough so it is well greased. Place the pan over medium heat and 
add the potato-egg mixture. Cook, gently shaking the pan occasionally, for  
5 minutes, or until the underside and edges are set and lightly browned.  37 Tapas, Pintxos, and Other Small Plates
Run a spatula around the egg to loosen it, then invert a 
plate over the pan (so it’s bottom-side up). With your hand 
holding the plate in place, carefully flip the pan over so the 
tortilla falls out onto the plate. Place the pan back on the 
burner and slide the tortilla, uncooked-side down, back into 
the pan. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until the bottom is set and 
lightly browned. When you shake the pan, the tortilla should 
not wobble. Flip the tortilla one more time and cook until 
the bottom is a darker brown.
5. Serve immediately on the same plate used to flip the tortilla, 
with a sliced tomato or roasted pepper salad. Store any 
remaining tortilla on a small plate covered with plastic wrap 
in the refrigerator to enjoy the following day for breakfast.
TECHNIQUE TIP
A hinged frittata pan will facilitate your tortilla flipping. Frittata pans 
have lids that latch on so that you can easily flip the contents of the 
pan. When using a plate to flip the tortilla, it’s very important that the 
plate fully cover the pan so that you can safely flip it.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
A nice cold pilsner-style beer pairs best with tortilla, or try it with a 
young tempranillo or fino sherry.39
CHAPTER THREE4Sides, Salads, 
and Sauces
A three-course meal in Spain starts with a soup, vegetable dish, or stew, 
followed by an entrée and side dishes such as potatoes and roasted  
peppers or a salad. Although Spaniards use sauces sparingly, a few are a 
must, such as aioli, romesco sauce, and mojo sauce—all of which you’ll  
find in this chapter, along with several wonderful side dishes and salads.
Aioli  40
Grilled Calçots  41
Roasted Pepper Salad from Andalucía   42
Little Gems and Toasted Garlic Salad  44
Mixed Salad  45
Grilled Asparagus  46
Spinach with Raisins and Pine Nuts  47
Vegetable Mélange  48
Fava Beans with Ham  50
Spicy Mojo Sauce  51
Baker’s  Potatoes  52
Romesco Sauce  54
Mashed Potatoes with Paprika  56
Spanish Ratatouille  58
Spanish Tomato Sauce  59
Mixed Salad (page 45)40
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKAioli
ALIOLI
Prep time: 5 minutes
Aioli is a traditional Mediterranean sauce with a zesty garlic punch that 
complements rice and noodle dishes, fish, poultry, grilled meat, and veg-
etables. It was originally made with just sliced garlic, salt, and olive oil, 
crushed and stirred in a mortar with a pestle until it emulsified. Today, a 
stick blender speeds this process up. You can use olive oil, vegetable oil, 
or a combination of both. Using only olive oil will give the aioli a  
stronger taste.  MAKES 1½ CUPS
1 large egg at room 
temperature2 garlic cloves, minced or 
pressed in a garlic press
2 cups sunflower oil1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 teaspoon fresh 
lemon juice
1. Place the egg, garlic, oil, and salt in a medium bowl in the order listed.
2. Add the lemon juice after the mixture begins to emulsify. Place a stick blender 
on top of the egg and begin to blend, without moving the blender, until the mix-
ture emulsifies. Once you see it has emulsified, you can gently move the blender 
up and down to finish blending to a mayonnaise consistency.
3. Transfer the aioli to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate until ready 
to serve, or store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
If the aioli does not emulsify into a mayonnaise-like consistency, place 1 egg in a similar size 
bowl as the one you started with. Place the blender directly over the yolk and, before blend-
ing, add one-third of the previous recipe to the bowl. Start the blender and hold it without 
moving it until the egg mixture emulsifies. Then proceed to slowly add the remaining original 
mixture while raising the blender up and down.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Mayonnaise  is simply aioli without garlic. Follow the recipe as written but omit the garlic.41 Sides, Salads, and SaucesGrilled Calçots
CALÇOTS
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 10 minutes
A calçot is a scallion-like onion typically eaten in Catalonia from November 
until April. At the end of the season, there is a beloved annual tradition 
in Vals, Tarragona, called a calçotada. At this festival, the onions are 
char-grilled over vine shoots and served wrapped in newspaper with bowls 
of Romesco Sauce (page 54) accompanied by botifarras (sausages), white 
Catalan beans, and local wines. SERVES 6
30 large scallions or 
spring onions1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon fi  ne sea saltFlaky sea salt
1. Remove the outer layers of the scallions and cut off   the root ends. Slice them in 
half lengthwise.
2. In a large heavy skillet (preferably cast iron for the best char), heat the olive 
oil and fi  ne sea salt over high heat, stirring to dissolve the salt. When very hot, 
working in batches, add the scallions in a single layer and cook until charred 
on the fi  rst side, 2 to 3 minutes; they should be almost burnt on the outside and 
juicy on the inside. Flip and char the second side. Season with salt.
3. Serve the scallions on a platter. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 2 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
To prepare the scallions as is done at a calçotada, grill them on an outdoor grill, and once they 
are done, keep them warm by wrapping them in aluminum foil (though traditionally this would 
be done with newspaper).
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a tempranillo, garnacha, or merlot.
42
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKRoasted Pepper Salad 
from Andalucía
ASADILLO DE PIMIENTOS ANDALUZ
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
Asadillo de pimientos andaluz is a dish representative of the Mediter -
ranean but is popular in many cities and regions throughout Spain. It’s 
made with just three main ingredients: red bell peppers, extra-virgin olive 
oil, and sea salt. It’s a flavorful, well-loved dish that is great to eat cold as a 
tapa or a salad or to accompany fish, meat, lamb chops, or rabbit.  SERVES 4
4 tomatoes on the vine
4 red bell peppers
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, dividedSea salt
3 garlic cloves, sliced
1/2 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes1/2 teaspoon ground cumin
1 tablespoon 
balsamic vinegar
1. Postion a rack in the center of the oven and preheat the broiler.
2. Using a sharp knife, cut a small “X” on the bottoms of the tomatoes. Rub all 
sides of the bell peppers and tomatoes with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil. 
Place the peppers and tomatoes in a baking pan large enough to hold them. 
Roast the vegetables for 30 minutes, 15 minutes on each side. Remove the pan 
from the oven, cover it with aluminum foil, and let the peppers and tomatoes 
cool on the pan.
3. When cool, remove the peppers and tomatoes, reserving the liquid in the pan. 
Carefully peel and seed the bell peppers. Cut the flesh into long strips and set 
aside in a large bowl with the reserved liquid from the baking pan.
4. Peel the tomatoes and remove the seeds. Place the flesh in a blender, add salt to 
taste, and blend until smooth. Set aside.
5. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil 
over medium heat. When hot, add the garlic and pepper flakes and brown for 
1 minute. Add the roasted pepper slices and any liquid in the bowl, the blended 
tomatoes, cumin, and salt to taste and mix well. Reduce the heat to medium-low 
and cook for 15 minutes, until the sauce thickens and reduces some, shaking the 
pan from time to time. 43 Sides, Salads, and Sauces6. Stir in the balsamic vinegar, remove the pan from the heat, 
and let cool.
7. Transfer to a bowl and serve at room temperature. Store  
any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for  
3 to 5 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Andalucía, only red bell peppers are used, but in other regions, green 
bell peppers and eggplant may be added. The asadillo  can be gar -
nished with olives or capers.44 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKLittle Gems and Toasted 
Garlic Salad
COGOLLOS DE TUDELA
Prep time: 10 minutes
Little Gems are a type of lettuce, and the best ones are grown in Tudela, 
Navarra, in Spain. Try this salad when Little Gems are in season, and 
when they are not, make it with chopped romaine lettuce. SERVES 4
4 heads Little Gem lettuce
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive 
oil (preferably 
Arbequina), divided2 garlic cloves, minced
Flaky sea salt
2 tablespoons red 
wine vinegar
1. Quarter each head of lettuce through the stem to form triangular wedges. Place 
the wedges cut-side up in a spoke pattern on a large serving plate.
2. In a small skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-low heat. 
When hot, add the garlic and cook for 1 to 2 minutes to very lightly brown, being 
careful not to burn it. Sprinkle the toasted garlic over the lettuce wedges.
3. Sprinkle some salt over the lettuce, followed by the vinegar, and then drizzle 
with the remaining 1/2    cup olive oil.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In the Basque Country, this salad might be topped with olive oil–packed albacore tuna 
(bonito del norte ) and a red bell pepper and scallion vinaigrette. Finely chop 1/2 small red bell 
pepper, 4 scallions, and 1/3 cup chopped, pitted green olives. Add 1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
and 1/4 cup sherry vinegar and season with salt. Let macerate for 20 minutes, then pour the 
vinaigrette over the salad.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a light Rioja viura that hasn’t been aged in oak and has lemon, citrus 
fruit, and fl  oral aromas.
45 Sides, Salads, and SaucesMixed Salad
ENSALADA MIXTA
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 25 minutes
Ensalada mixta is the Spanish version of a Niçoise salad. It is a simple 
and flavorful dish typically found on menus as a starter. There are many 
slight variations on the theme, including adding corn. No matter the  
version, it is always made with a simple vinaigrette. SERVES 4
Fine sea salt
2 medium Yukon Gold 
potatoes
4 asparagus spears, woody 
ends trimmed
1 head red-leaf 
lettuce, chopped1 tomato on the vine, cut 
into wedges
4 large hard-boiled 
eggs, peeled and cut 
into wedges
1/2 sweet onion, thinly sliced
16 Castelvetrano olives8 ounces olive oil–packed 
albacore tuna (preferably 
Ortiz bonito del 
norte), drained
Flaky sea salt
1/4 cup sherry vinegar
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
(preferably Arbequina)
1. In a medium pot, bring enough water to cover the potatoes and a pinch of salt to 
a boil over medium-high heat. Add the whole potatoes and cook for 25 minutes, 
until fork-tender. Drain the potatoes and let cool, then peel and slice them.
2. Set up a bowl of salted ice water. Cook the asparagus in a steamer basket for  
5 minutes, or until crisp-tender. Plunge the asparagus into the ice bath. Drain 
and pat dry.
3. In a large bowl, toss the lettuce, sliced potatoes, tomato wedges, asparagus, 
eggs, onion, olives, and tuna.
4. Sprinkle the salad with flaky sea salt, then drizzle with the vinegar, followed by 
the olive oil. It is important to dress the salad in this order, as the oil will seal in 
the salt and vinegar. Mix well and serve.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
This recipe traditionally calls for canned white asparagus and sometimes corn. In Spain, many 
people like to add corn, which is excellent charred. 46 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKGrilled Asparagus
ESPÁRRAGOS TRIGUEROS A LA PLANCHA
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 12 minutes
Asparagus is a key ingredient in Spanish cuisine. You will find it scram-
bled in eggs, included in rice dishes and in vegetable mélanges, sautéed 
with Serrano ham, in a tapa, or on a salad. Here it’s grilled in a cast-iron 
skillet with extra-virgin olive oil and flaky sea salt—simple, easy, and  
natural!  SERVES 6
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 teaspoon flaky sea salt, 
plus more for seasoning24 to 30 asparagus spears, 
woody ends trimmed
1/4 cup waterHomemade mayonnaise or 
Aioli (page 40)
1/2 lemon
1. Pour the olive oil into a large cast-iron skillet and stir in the salt. Set over high 
heat and once hot, place the asparagus spears in the skillet in a single layer. 
Reduce the heat to medium and cook for 5 minutes, until the tips turn crisp. 
Turn the asparagus over and add the water and a pinch of salt. Cook the aspar -
agus, turning them from time to time, until the water evaporates and they are 
cooked to your desired tenderness, about 5 minutes.
2. Serve on a large platter with mayonnaise or aioli. Finish with a sprinkle of salt 
and a squeeze of lemon juice. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 2 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
At Taberna Laredo in Madrid, the asparagus is served with diced heirloom tomatoes and 
shaved Parmesan cheese.47 Sides, Salads, and SaucesSpinach with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts
ESPINACAS CON PASAS Y PIÑONES
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
This is a typical side dish in Catalonia that’s also known as espinacas 
a la catalana. It is believed that spinach was brought to Europe in the 
Middle Ages by Muslims who began to cultivate it in Seville. They 
grew it especially for its medicinal properties, as it was believed to be 
anti-inflammatory and purgative. This dark, leafy green is rich in  
vitamins and minerals and is part of the Mediterranean diet.  SERVES 4
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 garlic cloves, minced1/2 cup pine nuts
3 tablespoons raisins2 pounds fresh spinach, 
tough stems trimmed
Sea salt
1. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the garlic and cook for 1 to 2 minutes, until golden. Stir in the pine nuts, 
then the raisins, and sauté for 2 minutes.
2. Add half of the spinach to the pan. Cover and cook for about 2 minutes, until it 
wilts and reduces in volume. Add the remaining spinach, cover, and cook until it 
wilts. Season with salt. Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 5 to 8 minutes, 
until the liquid released by the spinach has evaporated.
3. Serve hot. Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATIONS
Spaniards love cured pork, so many recipes include 1/4 cup chopped Serrano ham, which 
would be added after the pine nuts and raisins. There are also variations where sliced 
almonds are subbed in for half the pine nuts, or 1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika is added,  
or 1 onion, finely chopped, is included when sautéing the garlic. 48 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKVegetable Mélange
MENESTRA DE VERDURAS
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
This recipe is typical in northern Spain, especially in Navarra, the garden 
of the Basque Country. It is usually served during the spring or summer 
with seasonal vegetables as a starter or as an entrée topped with two 
poached eggs. You may also find it garnished with fried breaded arti-
chokes. Use any of your favorite seasonal vegetables. This dish is also 
nice when garnished with sliced hard-boiled or poached eggs.  SERVES 4
10 asparagus spears, woody 
ends trimmed
Fine sea salt
1 pound green beans, 
trimmed and cut 
into thirds
1 cup green peas
4 carrots, diced8 frozen artichoke hearts, 
thawed and patted dry
8 ounces frozen shelled 
edamame, thawed
12 small broccoli florets
2 medium Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and cut 
into medium-small pieces
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 small yellow onion, 
finely chopped
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/2 cup diced Serrano ham or 
prosciutto
1 tablespoon all-purpose 
flour (optional)
1. Cut each spear of asparagus crosswise on an angle into 4 pieces.
2. Line a platter with paper towels. In a large soup pot, bring enough water to 
cover the vegetables and 1 teaspoon salt to a boil over medium-high heat. Add 
the green beans, peas, carrots, and asparagus and boil for 5 to 8 minutes, until 
tender. Using a slotted spoon or skimmer, transfer the vegetables to the paper 
towel–lined platter. 
3. To the boiling water, add the artichokes, edamame, and broccoli and boil for  
3 minutes, then transfer to the platter.
4. Add the potatoes to the pot and boil for 15 to 20 minutes, until fork-tender. 
Transfer to the platter, reserving the liquid in the pot.
5. Meanwhile, in a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot,  
add the garlic and onion and season with salt and pepper. Cook for 15 minutes, 
or until the onion is soft and translucent.
6. Add the ham to the pan and sauté for 2 minutes.49 Sides, Salads, and Sauces7. For a thicker sauce, place the fl  our in a small bowl and stir 
in 1/4    cup of the reserved vegetable cooking water, then pour 
this slurry into the skillet. Cook, stirring, for 2 minutes to 
remove the raw fl  avor of the fl  our.
8. Add 1 cup of the reserved vegetable cooking water to the 
pan and mix well. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 
10 minutes.
9. Add the vegetables and potatoes to the pan and mix well. 
Add 1 cup of the reserved vegetable cooking water and 
mix well. Cover and simmer over low heat for 5 minutes to 
reduce the liquid somewhat.
10. Serve on a large platter as a side dish. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with an oak-aged verdejo or chardonnay.
50
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKFava Beans with Ham
HABITAS CON JAMÓN
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
Fava beans are typical of dishes in Granada, as the beans are cultivated 
in its fertile valley. A tradition of the region’s food culture is to eat fresh 
favas with saladillas (round bread made with olive oil and sea salt) and 
salt cod. At the bars in Granada, a great treat is a bocadillo (sandwich) 
made with sautéed fava beans and onions and a slice of cured Iberian  
or Serrano ham on a baguette.  SERVES 4
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 small yellow onion, 
finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1/2 cup chopped Serrano 
ham or prosciutto1 pound peeled shelled 
fresh fava beans (see 
Tip) or frozen shelled 
edamame, thawed1/2 cup water
Flaky sea salt
1. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the onion and garlic and sauté for 5 minutes, until soft and translucent.
2. Add the ham and sauté for 5 minutes.
3. Add the beans and cook, stirring, to coat with the onion and garlic, for about 
2 minutes. Add the water and cook for 5 minutes, then reduce the heat to a 
simmer and cook for 15 minutes, until the beans are tender and the liquid has 
reduced.
4. Season the dish with salt and serve. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for 3 to 5 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
If you’re making this with fresh fava beans, you need to buy 2 to 21/2 pounds in the pod to get 
1 pound shelled. After shelling the beans, blanch them in boiling water, drain, rinse to cool, 
then peel off their thick skins.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
Enjoy this dish as they do in Granada, with a nice cold pilsner-style beer.51 Sides, Salads, and SaucesSpicy Mojo Sauce
MOJO PICÓN
Prep time: 15 minutes
Mojo picón is the “salsa” of the Canary Islands, and it is found on every 
table throughout the archipelago. It pairs beautifully with papas arruga-
das (wrinkled potatoes), as well as with beef. The word mojo is derived 
from the Portuguese word molho, which means “sauce,” as many of the 
original settlers of the Canary Islands were from Madeira, a Portuguese 
island.  SERVES 6
4 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped
2 tomatoes on the 
vine, peeled (see Tip) 
and chopped1 red bell pepper, 
coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon smoked paprika1/4 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes
1/2 cup vegetable oil
In a blender, combine the garlic, tomatoes, bell pepper, salt cumin, paprika, pepper 
flakes, and oil and blend on high speed for 10 to 15 minutes, until the sauce has a 
creamy texture. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
To peel tomatoes: Set up a bowl of ice and water. Using a sharp knife, cut a small “X” on the 
bottom of each tomato. Place the tomatoes in a medium saucepan and pour boiling water 
over them to cover. Blanch the tomatoes for 50 seconds, until the skins soften, which will 
make them easier to peel. Using tongs, transfer the tomatoes to the ice bath to stop the 
 cooking. When cool enough to handle, pull the skin off the tomatoes.
REGIONAL VARIATION
Mojo verde  is the green mojo of the Canary Islands. To make it, in a blender, combine 8 garlic 
cloves, 1 bunch cilantro, 1 teaspoon ground cumin, salt to taste, 1/4 cup white wine vinegar, 
and 3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil and blend to a creamy texture.52 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKBaker’s  Potatoes
PATATAS PANADERAS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour
The name “baker’s potatoes” dates to an era when home ovens were 
uncommon, so Spaniards brought their roasts to the local baker to cook 
and always asked for the “baker’s potatoes” to accompany the meat. In 
Andalucía, they are known as poor man’s potatoes because they were 
made with whatever you had left in the pantry, which was not a lot during 
post–Spanish Civil War times. They are delicious with roasted lamb and 
fish or with fried eggs and chorizo.  SERVES 4
4 medium Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and 
thinly sliced
Fine sea salt
3 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
3 parsley sprigs, choppedLeaves from 1 thyme sprig 
(optional)
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, divided
Freshly ground 
black pepper1 medium yellow onion, 
thinly sliced
1 small green bell 
pepper, sliced
1/2 cup white wine
1/2 cup vegetable broth
1. Place the potatoes in a large bowl of cool water with 2 teaspoons salt. Let soak 
for at least 10 minutes.
2. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
3. Drain the potato slices, pat them dry, and place them in a large bowl. Add the 
garlic, parsley, thyme (if using), 1/4 cup of the olive oil, and salt and pepper to 
taste. Mix until the potatoes are thoroughly coated.
4. Brush a 9-by-12-inch baking dish with the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil. Place half 
of the potatoes in the dish and top with half of the onion and bell pepper. Add 
the remaining potatoes, followed by another layer of onion and bell pepper. 
Pour the wine and broth over the vegetables and season with 1/2 teaspoon black 
pepper. Cover the dish with aluminum foil.53 Sides, Salads, and Sauces5. Bake for 30 minutes. Remove the foil, raise the oven tem-
perature to 410°F, and bake for another 30 minutes, until the 
potatoes are tender and a little crispy on the edges.
6. Serve on a platter. Store leftovers in an airtight container in 
the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
WINE PAIRING 
The wine pairing will depend on the protein you serve the potatoes 
with. Have a godello or a rueda for fi  sh and a tempranillo for beef 
or lamb.
54 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKRomesco Sauce
SALSA ROMESCO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
This sauce originated in Valls, Tarragona, and dates back to 1896. It  
is typically eaten with Grilled Calçots (see page 41), a long, thin onion 
from Catalonia similar to a scallion. Romesco is also delicious with sea -
food, lamb, and poultry and is the perfect complement to a barbecue. 
Serve it with fish or escargot along with braised fennel and garnished 
with fresh mint. Sun-dried tomatoes are used here instead of the Spanish 
ñora (aka choricero) chile peppers, which are difficult to source in the 
United States.  MAKES 2 CUPS
6 tomatoes on the vine
1 head garlic, unpeeled
1 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, divided
4 marinated sun-dried 
tomatoes
2 slices toasted baguette½ cup unsalted dry-roasted 
almonds, plus more 
if needed
½ cup unsalted dry-roasted 
hazelnuts, plus more 
if needed1 tablespoon 
balsamic vinegar
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
Red pepper flakes (optional)
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Using a sharp knife, cut an “X” on the bottom of each tomato. Place the tomatoes 
and the whole head of garlic in a large baking pan and drizzle with 3 table-
spoons of the olive oil.
3. Roast for 30 to 40 minutes, until the garlic head feels soft when pressed. Place 
the tomatoes in a bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and set aside to cool. Reserve 
the liquid from the pan. When cool, peel the tomatoes and remove the seeds; 
place the flesh in a food processor or blender and pour in the reserved liquid 
from the pan. When the garlic is cool enough to handle, squeeze the garlic 
cloves out of their skins into the food processor or blender.55 Sides, Salads, and Sauces
4. Add the remaining 3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon olive oil, the 
sun-dried tomatoes, bread (if using), almonds, hazelnuts, 
vinegar, smoked paprika, salt and black pepper to taste, and 
a pinch of pepper flakes (if using). Process to a thick and 
creamy texture. If the mixture is too runny, blend in more 
almonds and hazelnuts. Store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Swap in sherry vinegar for the balsamic. Or try both ways and see 
which you prefer. To make this with the traditional ñora peppers (which 
are dried), rehydrate 3 ñoras in a bowl of water for at least 4 hours, or 
up to overnight. Then remove the stems and seeds. Add the peppers in 
step 4 and omit the sun-dried tomatoes.56 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMashed Potatoes with 
Paprika
PATATAS REVOLCONAS
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
A simple and tasty dish made with potatoes, smoked paprika, and crispy 
pork, patatas revolconas is a typical tapa at bars in Salamanca, Avila, and 
Extremadura, the lands of the famous Iberian pig. In Madrid’s Chamberi 
neighborhood, there’s a bar called Barrera that makes an exquisite ver -
sion of this dish. It’s especially good topped with fried eggs for brunch.  
SERVES 4
8 large Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and each 
cut into 8 pieces
Splash white wine vinegar
1 teaspoon fine sea salt, 
plus more to taste1 bay leaf
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
8 ounces pancetta, diced
6 garlic cloves, minced
1 teaspoon smoked paprika1/2 teaspoon cayenne 
pepper, or to taste
1 parsley sprig
1. In a large pot, combine the potatoes, water to cover, the vinegar, salt, and bay 
leaf. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat and cook for about 25 minutes, or 
until the potatoes are fork-tender. Remove the potatoes from the pot, reserving 
the water.
2. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over 
medium-high heat. When hot, add the pancetta and cook for about 5 minutes, 
until crispy on all sides, being careful not to burn it. Using a slotted spoon, trans-
fer the pancetta to a plate.
3. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil to the pan. When hot, add the garlic 
and cook for about 2 minutes to lightly brown. 
4. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the paprika and cayenne. Add the 
potatoes to the pan little by little and begin to mash them with a potato masher 
or wooden spoon. If more moisture is needed to mash the potatoes, add some of 
the reserved water. Stir half of the pancetta into the mashed potatoes.57 Sides, Salads, and Sauces
5. Serve the mashed potatoes in a large bowl, topped with the 
remaining pancetta and the parsley. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
The consistency of these mashed potatoes can vary, as some prefer a 
puree-like texture to a chunky texture. For a smoother texture, mash 
in more of the reserved water from boiling the potatoes. Some like to 
garnish this dish with crispy fried garlic slices.
BEVERAGE PAIRING
This dish pairs well with a cold amber ale. In Madrid there is a great 
amber ale made with toasted and caramelized malts called Jamonera 
from La Virgen brewery. If you prefer a glass of wine, pair it with a rosé 
of the garnacha varietal from Navarra, such as one from the Gran 
Feudo winery.58 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSpanish Ratatouille
PISTO MANCHEGO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
You will fi  nd this adored traditional dish on the daily menu at neighbor-
hood restaurants and bars. It can be served as a small fi  rst course or with 
fried eggs as an entrée. It makes a great brunch dish with fried eggs over 
roasted potatoes and some crispy prosciutto crumbled over the eggs.
SERVES 4
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 yellow onion, 
fi  nely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 teaspoon fi  ne sea salt
1 teaspoon fresh 
thyme leaves1 medium red bell 
pepper, chopped
1 medium green bell 
pepper, chopped
2 small zucchini, diced
1/2 cup white wine4 tomatoes on the vine, 
peeled (see Tip, page 51), 
seeded, and diced
1 teaspoon sherry vinegar 
or balsamic vinegar
1 teaspoon honey
1 parsley sprig, for garnish
1. In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
onion, garlic, salt, and thyme and sauté for 15 minutes, until the onion turns 
translucent.
2. Add the bell peppers and sauté for about 10 minutes, until they soften. Add the 
zucchini and sauté for 3 minutes. Add the wine and simmer for 5 minutes.
3. Add the tomatoes, vinegar, and honey and simmer over low heat for about 
20 minutes, until the mixture has a moist and tender consistency.
4. Serve garnished with the parsley. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATIONS
There are many regional renditions of this dish. In Andalucía, eggplant and potatoes are 
added. The pisto  from Murcia has two beaten eggs and potatoes, but it does not have any 
red bell pepper or zucchini.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with a rosé of the garnacha or tempranillo varietal from Navarra.
59 Sides, Salads, and SaucesSpanish Tomato Sauce
TOMATE FRITO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
Every Spanish family takes pride in their own homemade tomato sauce, 
making it in large batches and freezing it. Having it ready ahead of time 
can be a lifesaver for a quick family dinner such as white rice, tomato 
sauce, and fried eggs; sautéed green beans with tomato sauce; or pasta 
with tomato sauce and chorizo. MAKES 12 CUPS
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 yellow onions, thinly sliced
Sea salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup waterFreshly ground 
black pepper
6 (28-ounce) cans 
tomato puree
1 bay leaf1/2 cup red wine
1 tablespoon honey
1. In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
onions and sauté for 10 minutes, until soft. Sprinkle with salt to taste and the 
sugar and sauté for about 10 minutes more, until the onions begin to turn a light 
golden brown. Sauté for another 10 minutes, adding the water little by little, until 
the onions are golden brown. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Add the tomato puree, bay leaf, wine, and honey and simmer for 30 minutes, 
until the sauce starts to thicken. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
3. Let the sauce cool. Working in batches, transfer the sauce to a blender and blend 
to a thick and creamy texture. Store the sauce in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 5 days. Or divide the sauce into thirds, refrigerating one 
part to use right away (or within a few days) and freezing the other two portions 
in separate resealable freezer bags.61
CHAPTER FOUR4Soups, Stews, 
and Cocidos
Soups, stews, and cocidos  represent the backbone of Spanish regional 
cuisine. Every region has its specialties using local products. Y ou may 
think that a cocido  and a stew are the same, but they have one subtle 
difference. To stew means to cook all of the ingredients together in a pot. 
Cocido  comes from the word cocer , which means “to cook,” but everything 
is cooked separately in different pots and brought together at the end. 
Soups, enjoyed as a first course, are seasonal, which determines whether 
they are served hot or cold. Hot soups are served straight from the pot; 
cold soups are always garnished with ingredients that enhance their flavor.
White Garlic Gazpacho  62
Andalucían Gazpacho  64
Galician Broth  65
Potato Leek Soup  66
Tuna Pot  67
Potato Chicken Stew  69
 Chickpea, Butternut Squash, and Green Bean Stew  71
Catalonian Fish Stew  73
Madrid-Style Chickpea Stew  75
Tolosa-Style Beans with Trimmings  77
Catalonian Fish Stew (page 73)62 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKWhite Garlic Gazpacho
AJOBLANCO
Prep time: 20 minutes, plus 2 hours to chill
This dish is a popular cold soup from Granada, enjoyed during the hot 
summer months. It’s wonderful garnished with cold peeled grapes: The 
contrast of the grapes’ sweetness, the gazpacho’s creamy texture, and 
the vinegar’s acidity is magical. For a more sophisticated presentation, 
garnish your ajoblanco with a couple of cooked gambas al ajillo (Garlic 
Shrimp, page 15), or with tuna tartare.  SERVES 4
11/4 cups slivered 
almonds, divided
2 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon fine sea salt31/2 cups cool water
1/2 cup cubed day-old 
round country bread 
(not sourdough), 
crusts removed1/4 cup sherry vinegar
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
24 to 32 grapes, for garnish
1. In a blender, combine 1 cup of the almonds, the garlic, salt, and 1 cup of the 
water and blend to a coarse texture. Add the bread cubes, vinegar, and remain-
ing 21/2 cups water and blend until smooth. With the blender running, slowly add 
the olive oil. Blend until you achieve a creamy-looking texture.
2. Pour the soup through a fine-mesh sieve into a serving bowl to get a silky final 
texture.
3. Refrigerate to chill for up to 2 hours. This soup is best served cold.
4. Cut a tiny “X” on the bottom of each grape. Bring a medium pot of water to a 
boil, then add the grapes and blanch for about 40 seconds. Drain and transfer to 
a small bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let cool for about 5 minutes. Peel each 
grape. Return them to the bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Refrigerate until the 
soup is ready to serve.63 Soups, Stews, and Cocidos5. To serve, portion the soup into individual bowls and garnish 
with the remaining 1/4    cup almonds and 6 to 8 peeled grapes. 
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 
up to 1 day.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Extremadura, this soup is made with egg yolk and does not contain 
almonds, but does include tomato and cucumber. In Malaga, it is gar-
nished with moscatel grapes, melon, or apple.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair the white gazpacho with a fi  no or amontillado sherry. If you have 
a choice, the amontillado has a more complex structure and will work 
better with the garlic.
64 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKAndalucían Gazpacho
GAZPACHO ANDALUZ
Prep time: 15 minutes
Gazpacho is the emblematic cold tomato soup from Andalucía. It is a 
popular, humble, nutritious, and refreshing all-time favorite that is syn-
onymous with summer. Gazpacho was originally made with tomatoes, 
day-old bread, garlic, peppers, and water, but this recipe omits the raw 
garlic and bread. Use your favorite olive oil here. SERVES 4
1/3 cup coarsely chopped red 
bell pepper
1/3 cup coarsely chopped 
green bell pepper
1/3 cup coarsely chopped 
sweet yellow onion1/4 cup coarsely chopped 
cucumber
2 pounds tomato on the 
vine, quartered
1 teaspoon sea salt
1½ teaspoon 
balsamic vinegar1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Optional toppings: chopped 
tomato, fi  nely chopped 
sweet white onion, fi  nely 
chopped red and green 
bell peppers, and chopped 
hard-boiled eggs
1. In a blender, combine the bell peppers, onion, cucumber, tomatoes, salt, vinegar, 
and olive oil. Blend on high speed for 10 to 15 minutes, until the gazpacho has an 
almost creamy texture. Spaniards like this soup very creamy and always strain 
it through a fi  ne-mesh sieve after blending. If you prefer it slightly chunky, don’t 
strain it.
2. Pour the gazpacho into bowls. If desired, top with any or all of the garnishes. 
Store leftovers in a pitcher covered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up 
to 2 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Instead of cucumber, add 1/2 cup chopped melon or seedless watermelon—a great choice 
during peak melon season. Y ou can also use 1/2 cup fi  nely chopped melon or watermelon as a 
topping.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this soup with a fi  no sherry from the appellation of Jerez-Xérès-Sherry or with manzanilla 
sherry from Sanlúcar de Barrameda in Cádiz.
65 Soups, Stews, and CocidosGalician Broth
CALDO GALLEGO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour
This simple-to-make soup of Celtic origin is perfect to warm yourself on a 
typical windy and rainy day in Galicia. SERVES 6
2 ham hocks
1 slab pork ribs (12 ribs), cut 
into six 2-rib pieces
5 smoked bacon slices11/2 pounds Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled 
and sliced
2 (15.5-ounce) cans navy 
beans, drained and rinsed3 cups chopped 
turnip greens
Sea salt
1. In a large soup pot, cover the ham hocks, ribs, and bacon with water. Bring to 
a boil over high heat, then reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook for 30 minutes. 
Check the broth as it simmers and use a skimmer or slotted spoon to remove 
any foam.
2. Gently stir in the potatoes, then return the soup to a boil and cook, uncovered, 
for another 20 minutes.
3. Stir in the beans and turnip greens, season with salt, and cook for another 10 to 
15 minutes, until the greens are tender.
4. Remove the ham hock and ribs, cut the meat off   the bones, and stir it into the 
soup. Discard the bones.
5. Serve in soup bowls or from a soup tureen. Store leftovers in an airtight con-
tainer in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
SUBSTITUTION
Kale, chard, or any dark leafy vegetable can be substituted for the turnip greens. Spinach is 
not recommended. Cannellini beans can be substituted for the navy beans.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this soup with a Galician mencia from the Ribeira Sacra appellation.
66 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKPotato Leek Soup
PORRUSALDA
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
Porrusalda originated in the Basque Country and Navarra region, and it’s 
perfect for a cold winter night. Its name means “leek broth” in Euskera 
(the Basque language). It is typically enjoyed during Lent. You can use 
vegetable broth, if you like. SERVES 4
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 yellow onion, 
fi  nely chopped
Sea salt3 (32-ounce) containers 
chicken broth
6 parsley sprigs
5 leeks, well rinsed and cut 
into 3/4-inch pieces2 large carrots, cut into 
3/4-inch pieces
3 large Yukon Gold 
potatoes, cut into 3/4-inch-
thick rounds
1. In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
onion and a pinch of salt and sauté for 10 minutes, until soft and translucent.
2. Add the broth and parsley. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Add the leeks, 
carrots, potatoes, and a pinch of salt. The liquid needs to cover all the vegeta-
bles, so add more broth or water if necessary. Mix well and boil for 25 to 
30 minutes, until the potatoes are fork-tender.
3. To serve, pour the soup into individual bowls or a soup tureen. Store leftovers in 
an airtight container in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or freeze in a heavy-duty 
freezer bag.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Cut the potatoes into irregular shapes called cachelos . Start by sticking a knife about 1 inch 
into the potato, then break the piece off  . By ripping the potato instead of slicing it, you create 
a greater surface area, releasing more starch into the dish to thicken the broth. This is a tradi-
tional Spanish cooking tip for stews and soups.
WINE PAIRING 
This soup will pair well with a rosé, preferably a tempranillo.
67 Soups, Stews, and CocidosTuna Pot
MARMITAKO DE ATÚN
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
The literal translation of marmitako is “what’s in the pot?” It’s a traditional 
and very popular Basque white tuna stew enjoyed aboard many fishing 
boats in the Cantabrian Sea. The dish is also called marmita de bonito 
(bonito pot) and sorropotún (a unique name for the dish) in Cantabria and 
Asturias, respectively. Although this delicious hot stew would be perfect 
for a cold winter night, it is customarily eaten in white tuna season, which 
is from June to September.  SERVES 4
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 sweet yellow onion, 
finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1 small green bell pepper, 
finely chopped
3 marinated sun-dried 
tomatoes, chopped 
(optional)2 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1/2 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes
11/2 teaspoons 
smoked paprika
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
3/4 cup dry white wine
Flaky sea salt
3 medium russet potatoes, 
peeled and cubed2 quarts fish stock or 
vegetable broth, hot
12 ounces white tuna, 
red tuna, or any firm 
white-fleshed fish, cut into 
1-inch cubes
Freshly ground 
black pepper
Leaves from 3 parsley sprigs, 
for garnish
1. In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
onion, garlic, and bell pepper and sauté for 15 minutes, or until the onion is soft 
and translucent.
2. Stir in the sun-dried tomatoes (if using) and grated tomato and cook for 3 min-
utes to release the tomato liquid. Stir in the pepper flakes, smoked paprika, salt, 
and wine. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes to meld the flavors.
3. Stir in the potatoes and pour in the hot stock. Bring to a boil, then reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 25 minutes, or until the potatoes are fork-tender.
CONTINUED68 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKTuna Pot CONTINUED
4. Stir in the tuna, cover, and remove from the heat. Let stand for 5 minutes. Season 
with salt and pepper.
5. Serve the soup in bowls, garnished with the parsley leaves. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
If you can fi  nd dried Spanish choricero pepper, use it in place of the sun-dried tomatoes here. 
Y ou’ll need 3/4 ounce, and it needs to be rehydrated fi  rst.
TECHNIQUE TIP
To thicken the sauce, rather than smoothly slicing the potatoes, it is typical in Spanish cooking 
to break chunks off   by inserting a knife and breaking off   small irregular pieces. These are 
called cachelos . This method provides more surface area and thus releases more starch, 
which will give you a nice thick broth.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with a godello white wine from Valdeorras, Galicia, with tropical fruit, mineral, 
and fl  oral notes.
69 Soups, Stews, and CocidosPotato Chicken Stew
PATATAS CON POLLO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour
Patatas con pollo is a sumptuous stew that should be enjoyed with  
wonderful company, great wine, and lots of laughter.  SERVES 6
11/2 pounds boneless, 
skinless chicken thighs, cut 
into 2-inch pieces
1 tablespoon fresh thyme
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
10 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided4 garlic cloves, 
minced, divided
1 medium yellow 
onion, chopped
1 green bell 
pepper, chopped
1 red bell pepper, chopped
1 tomato on the vine, grated 
on a box grater4 russet potatoes, peeled 
and cut into cachelos (see 
Tip, page 68)
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
4 rosemary sprigs
4 quarts chicken broth, hot
1/3 cup Arborio rice
Red pepper flakes
8 ounces mushrooms, sliced
1. Sprinkle the chicken with the thyme and season with salt and black pepper.
2. In a large pot, heat 5 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the chicken and cook for 15 minutes, or until browned on all sides. Remove 
the chicken and set aside.
3. Reduce the heat under the pot to medium and add 3 tablespoons of the olive oil. 
When hot, add two-thirds of the garlic and sauté for 2 minutes, or until browned. 
Add the onion and season with salt and black pepper. Sauté for about 15 min-
utes, until the onion is soft and translucent.
4. Add the bell peppers and a pinch of salt. Sauté for 5 minutes, or until the 
peppers are tender. Add the grated tomato and cook for 2 minutes to release 
the liquid.
5. Add the potatoes, mixing well to release their starch. Add the browned chicken, 
saffron, rosemary, and hot broth. The liquid should cover all the ingredients, so 
add more broth or water if necessary. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce 
the heat to medium and cook, uncovered, for 10 minutes.
6. Stir in the rice and cook, uncovered, for 20 minutes, until the potatoes are tender 
and the rice is cooked.
CONTINUED70 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKPotato Chicken Stew CONTINUED
7. Meanwhile, in a medium skillet, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil over 
medium-high heat. Add the remaining garlic and season with pepper fl  akes 
to taste. Sauté for about 2 minutes, until the garlic is lightly browned. Add the 
mushrooms and sauté for about 5 minutes, until they soften. Season with salt.
8. Stir the mushroom mixture into the stew.
9. Serve the stew in bowls or pasta dishes. Store leftovers in an airtight container 
in the refrigerator for up to 3 to 4 days or freeze in an airtight container or 
freezer bag for up to 3 months.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Traditionally this dish is made with rabbit and is called patatas con conejo . To prepare it with 
rabbit, skip steps 1 and 2 and omit the 5 tablespoons olive oil. Cut the rabbit into pieces, 
place it in a soup pot, and add water to cover. Add the thyme and boil for 30 minutes. In step 
5, add the rabbit and its cooking liquid (omit the chicken broth) and proceed with the recipe. 
Also, use Spanish bomba rice instead of Arborio.
WINE PAIRING 
Red wines of the tempranillo and garnacha varietals will pair well with this stew.
71 Soups, Stews, and CocidosChickpea,  
Butternut Squash, and 
Green Bean Stew
POTAJE DE GARBANZOS, CALABAZA, Y JUDÍAS VERDES
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
This traditional stew from Chiclana is a great vegetarian cocido option. 
In this version, ready-to-eat marinated sun-dried tomatoes stand in 
for pimientos choriceros, Spanish chiles that are difficult to find in the 
United States.  SERVES 4
FOR THE STEW
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, 
finely chopped
1 leek, white and light green 
parts only, well rinsed and 
finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced or 
pressed in a garlic press
1 teaspoon fine sea salt, 
plus more for seasoning
5 large Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and cut 
into large chunks8 ounces green beans, 
trimmed and cut 
into thirds
2 teaspoons fresh thyme
Freshly ground 
black pepper
4 marinated sun-dried 
tomatoes, chopped
1 tomato on the vine, grated 
on a box grater
Red pepper flakes (optional)
6 saffron threads
1/2 cup white wine
1 butternut squash, peeled, 
seeded, and cut into 
1-inch cubes7 cups vegetable broth
1 bay leaf
2 (16.5-ounce) cans 
chickpeas, drained 
and rinsed
FOR THE GARNISH
4 tomatoes on the 
vine, halved
Fine sea salt
2 garlic cloves, minced or 
pressed in a garlic press
5 teaspoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 bunch mint, sprigs 
separated
TO MAKE THE STEW
1. In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium-low heat. When hot, add the 
onion, leek, garlic, and salt and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 10 minutes, 
until the onion and leek are softened and translucent.
CONTINUED72 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKChickpea, Butternut Squash, and Green Bean Stew CONTINUED
2. Add the potatoes and green beans and cook for a few minutes. Stir in the thyme, 
black pepper, sun-dried tomatoes, grated tomato, and pepper fl  akes (if using). 
Stir in the saff  ron, mixing well, then the wine. Cook for 2 minutes to burn off   the 
alcohol.
3. Stir in the squash and broth. Bring to a boil over high heat, add the bay leaf, and 
gently mix in the chickpeas. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 25 minutes, 
until the squash and potatoes are tender. Taste and adjust the seasonings.
TO MAKE THE GARNISH
4. Use the large holes of a box grater to grate the tomatoes into a bowl. Season to 
taste with salt, add the garlic, and mix well. Add the olive oil and mix well with a 
fork or whisk.
5. Serve the stew in soup or pasta bowls, garnished with a sprig of fresh mint 
and accompanied by a bowl of the tomato-garlic garnish. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or in the freezer for up to 
3 months.
WINE PAIRING 
An oak-aged chardonnay will pair well with this stew; if you prefer a red, have a tempranillo 
from Ribera del Duero.
73 Soups, Stews, and CocidosCatalonian Fish Stew
SUQUET DE PESCADO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Suquet is the Catalonian word for the pot used to make this dish. Like 
the marmitako de atún (Tuna Pot, page 67), it started out as a humble 
dish created by fishermen with leftover fish scraps. It has now evolved 
to “haute cuisine” and can be made with any kind of fish or shellfish. To 
thicken the sauce, take some of the potatoes out, mash them, then mix 
them back in. Omit the cornstarch if you do this.  SERVES 4
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
4 garlic cloves, minced
4 tablespoons finely 
chopped fresh 
parsley, divided
5 tablespoons 
grated tomato2 teaspoons 
smoked paprika
11/2 pounds russet potatoes, 
peeled and cut into 
1-inch cubes
21/2 cups fish stock
2 pounds mahimahi, cut 
into 2-inch piecesSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 tablespoon cornstarch, 
dissolved in 1 tablespoon 
cold water
Aioli (page 40), for serving
1. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium-high heat. When 
hot, add the garlic and cook for about 1 minute to lightly brown. When it begins 
to brown, stir in 2 tablespoons of the parsley and the grated tomato. Reduce the 
heat to medium and cook for 5 minutes to reduce the liquid from the tomato.
2. Stir in the paprika, potatoes, and 11/4 cups of the fish stock. Bring to a boil over 
medium-high heat, then reduce to a simmer and cook, uncovered, for 20 min-
utes, until the potatoes are tender. Add the remaining 11/4 cups fish stock little by 
little as the liquid in the pan reduces.
3. Season the mahimahi with salt and pepper, add it to the pan, and cook for  
3 minutes. Taste and season with salt and pepper if needed. Add the cornstarch 
mixture, stirring carefully so that you don’t break up the fish or potatoes. Cook 
for 5 minutes to thicken the stew and finish cooking the fish. 
CONTINUED74 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKCatalonian Fish Stew  CONTINUED
4. Serve the stew in bowls or pasta dishes, garnished with the remaining  
2 tablespoons parsley, with a bowl of aioli on the side. Store leftovers  
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
In addition to the aioli, this stew can be served with a picada —a mélange of ingredients 
that will enhance the dish’s flavors. In a blender, combine 2 garlic cloves, 1 teaspoon slivered 
almonds, 1 teaspoon pine nuts, 1 slice fried French bread, 2 sprigs parsley, 6 saffron threads, 
and 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil and pulse until you achieve a coarse grainy texture.75 Soups, Stews, and CocidosMadrid-Style  
Chickpea Stew
COCIDO MADRILEÑO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour
A cold and rainy Saturday can become perfect with a cocido madrileño to 
enjoy with friends and family, accompanied by a good bottle of wine. It is 
served in three stages (or vuelcos, which means “turning of the pots”): first 
a brothy soup with noodles; then the platter of stewed meats; and finally 
the veggies.  SERVES 6
FOR THE STEW
8 ounces beef stew meat
1 ham shank
1 ham hock
4 ounces smoked bacon
1 link chorizo
2 boneless, skinless chicken 
thighs, cut into thirds
2 cups canned chickpeas, 
drained and rinsed
2 carrots, cut into thirds3 large Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and cut 
into thirds
1/2 yellow onion
1/4 head green cabbage
Fine sea salt
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, sliced
2 cups fideo noodles or 
broken angel hair pastaFOR SERVING
4 tomatoes on the 
vine, halved
Fine sea salt
Pinch ground cumin
2 garlic cloves, minced or 
pressed in a garlic press
Leaves from 1 mint sprig,  
chopped
5 teaspoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
TO MAKE THE STEW
1. In a large soup pot, combine the beef, ham shank, ham hock, bacon, chorizo, 
chicken, and cold water to cover. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the 
heat to medium. Over the next 10 minutes, use a skimmer or slotted spoon to 
remove any foam that surfaces. Reduce the heat to a simmer, cover, and cook for 
at least 30 minutes, preferably 45 minutes. The longer the broth simmers, the 
more flavor it will have. After 25 minutes, add the chickpeas.
2. Meanwhile, in a separate large pot, combine the carrots, potatoes, onion, cab-
bage, and cold water to cover. Add 1 teaspoon salt and bring to a boil over high 
heat. Reduce the heat to medium and cook, uncovered, for 25 to 30 minutes, until 
the potatoes are fork-tender.
CONTINUED76 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMadrid-Style Chickpea Stew CONTINUED
3. Scoop the potatoes, carrots, and onion out of the broth onto a platter. Cover 
with aluminum foil to keep warm. Pour the broth and cabbage into a sieve set 
over a bowl. Place the cabbage in a separate bowl and transfer the broth to a 
medium pot.
4. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the garlic and sauté for 2 minutes to lightly brown. Pour the garlic and oil 
over the cabbage, season with salt, and mix well. Cover with foil to keep warm.
5. Preheat the oven to 250°F.
6. Scoop the meat, chorizo, chicken, and chickpeas onto a large ovenproof platter 
or baking dish. Cut the meat off   the ham shank and hock and add it to the platter 
(discard the bones). Cover with foil and keep warm in the oven.
7. Strain the meat broth through a fi  ne-mesh sieve to remove any solids. Add this 
broth to the vegetable broth in the pot. Taste and season with salt if needed.
8. To make the soup, add the noodles to the pot of broth and bring to a boil over 
medium-high heat. Cook for 5 to 8 minutes, until the noodles are cooked through.
TO SERVE
9. Use the large holes of a box grater to grate the tomatoes into a bowl. Season to 
taste with salt, add the cumin, garlic, and mint, and mix well. Add the olive oil 
and mix well with a fork or a whisk.
10. Serve the brothy noodles in soup bowls as a fi  rst course. Follow with the plat-
ter of meats and chickpeas served family-style. Accompany with the tomato 
mixture. Separately, serve the platter of vegetables and bowl of cabbage. Store 
leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days or freeze in an 
airtight container or freezer bag for up to 3 months.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
For a more authentic taste, seek out Palacios brand chorizo online. It comes in spicy or regular. 
WINE PAIRING 
A red wine of the monastrell varietal from the appellation of Jumilla or a mencia from Bierzo 
will pair nicely with this cocido .
77 Soups, Stews, and CocidosTolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings
ALUBIAS DE TOLOSA CON SUS SACRAMENTOS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
This succulent bean dish with pickled peppers, crispy ribs, and pork belly 
is even better if you seek out Palacios brand Spanish chorizo, either spicy 
or regular.  SERVES 4
8 pork ribs, separated
4 ounces pork belly, cut into 
1-inch cubes
8 ounces chorizo, cut into 
6 pieces
1/2 cup white wine
Sea salt
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil,  
divided1 small yellow onion, 
finely chopped
1 leek, white and light green 
parts only, well rinsed and 
finely chopped
1 small green bell 
pepper, diced
3 (15.5-ounce) cans kidney 
beans, drained and rinsed1/2 head green cabbage, 
thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1/3 cup beef broth or 
vegetable broth
16 pepperoncini
1. In a large soup pot, combine the ribs, pork belly, chorizo, and cold water to cover. 
Add the wine and a pinch of salt and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce  
the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes to render out some  
of the fat. Place the ribs, pork belly, and chorizo on a platter and set aside.  
(Discard the cooking water.)
2. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat ¼ cup of the olive oil over low heat. When 
hot, add the onion, leek, and a pinch of salt and sauté for about 15 minutes, until 
soft and translucent. Add the bell pepper and sauté until soft, about 10 minutes.
3. Add the kidney beans and just enough water to cover them. Bring to a boil, then 
reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 20 to 25 minutes, until a creamy tex-
ture is obtained. As the liquid in the pan reduces, add water as needed to keep 
the beans just covered.
4. Bring a small pot of water to a boil with a pinch of salt. Add the cabbage and 
boil for 10 minutes. Drain and transfer to a bowl or plate.
CONTINUED78 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKTolosa-Style Beans with Trimmings CONTINUED
5. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat 1/4    cup of the olive oil over medium heat. 
When hot, add the garlic and sauté for 1 minute to lightly brown. Pour the garlic 
and oil over the cabbage in the bowl.
6. Line a plate with paper towels. In a large skillet, heat the remaining 2 table-
spoons olive oil over medium-high heat. When hot, add the ribs and pork belly 
and cook for 3 minutes. When the pork begins to crisp, add the broth and cook 
for 2 to 4 minutes more, until crispy. Transfer to the paper towel–lined plate 
to drain.
7. Serve the kidney beans in bowls or pasta dishes garnished with the pepperon-
cini. Serve the meats on a platter and the garlic-seasoned cabbage family-style 
in a separate bowl for everyone to help themselves at the table. Store leftovers in 
an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
For a more authentic preparation, start with dried kidney beans. Soak them in cold water 
overnight and cook the beans for about 2 hours in step 3 following the same instructions. 
The texture of the cooked beans should be creamy.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with a tempranillo from La Rioja or Ribera del Duero.
81
CHAPTER FIVE4Rice and Pasta
A Sunday family gathering in Spain without paella is unimaginable. The 
country’s rice dishes originated in Valencia, famous for its marshes filled 
with rice fields and the fresh produce from its gardens. This chapter will 
teach you the three techniques used in cooking Spanish-style rice dishes: 
paella-style rice, honeyed rice, and brothy rice, along with an endless list 
of combinable ingredients. But rice is not the only carb that Spaniards 
enjoy. Another favorite is pasta, used in the array of noodle dishes found 
throughout Spain. In this chapter, you will also discover that the key  
ingredient for both rice and noodle dishes is the broth.
Mixed Paella  82
Seafood Rice  84
Squid Ink Black Rice  86
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice  88
Vegetable Garden Rice  90
Sailor’s Rice  92
Clay Pot Pork Noodles  94
Wild Mushroom Noodles  96
Shrimp and Clam Noodles  98
Tomato and Chorizo Penne  100
Mixed Paella (page 82)82 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMixed Paella
PAELLA MIXTA
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
Paella mixta is the queen of all paellas. This dish can be found on every 
Spanish beach-restaurant menu. Its name comes from the combination 
of pork, chicken, seafood, and veggies it contains. A large paella pan is 
helpful for cooking and spreading out the ingredients (traditionally over 
an evenly distributed fire), but it’s not necessary. It can also be done in a 
skillet on your stovetop and finished off in the oven. You can use just  
one type of broth or a mixture.  SERVES 4
21/4 cups chicken broth
2 cups fish stock
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
8 mussels
1/2 cup white wine
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
6 to 8 shrimp, unpeeled
1/2 cup finely chopped 
yellow onion2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1/2 red bell pepper, chopped
2 boneless, skinless 
chicken thighs, cut into 
1-inch pieces
4 ounces chorizo, diced
4 ounces green beans, 
trimmed and cut into 
1-inch pieces1 marinated sun-dried 
tomato, chopped 
(optional)
4 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
2 cups Arborio rice
1 lemon, cut into wedges
1 parsley sprig
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. In a large soup pot, combine the chicken broth and fish stock over medium heat 
to slowly heat up the broth. Keep the broth hot. Season well with salt and pepper.
3. In a large sauté pan or skillet, combine the mussels and wine. Cover the pan, 
set over medium-high heat, and steam the mussels for 3 to 5 minutes, until they 
open. Discard any unopened mussels. Transfer the mussels to a plate and set 
aside. Pour the liquid from the pan into the pot with the broth.
4. In a large ovenproof skillet, preferably cast iron, heat 2 tablespoons of the  
olive oil over medium-high heat. When hot, add the shrimp and sauté for  
3 to 4  minutes, just until they turn pink. Remove the shrimp to a plate and  
set aside to cool, then peel them and add the shells to the broth.83 Rice and Pasta5. In the same skillet, heat the remaining 3 tablespoons olive 
oil over low heat. When hot, add the onion and garlic and 
sauté for 15 minutes, until translucent. 
6. Add the bell pepper and sauté for 10 minutes, or until soft. 
Add the chicken, season with salt and black pepper, and 
sauté for 10 to 15 minutes, until browned. Add the chorizo 
and cook for about 5 minutes.
7. Stir in the green beans and the sun-dried tomato (if using), 
mixing well. Stir in the grated tomato and cook until it 
releases its liquid, about 2 minutes. Stir in the smoked 
paprika and saff  ron. Add the rice and toast it, stirring 
frequently, for 5 minutes.
8. Strain the broth through a fi  ne-mesh sieve; it should mea-
sure 41/4    cups (add water if necessary to get to this amount). 
Add it to the skillet. Increase the heat to high and cook for 
5 minutes.
9. Transfer the skillet to the oven to fi  nish cooking, about 
15 minutes.
10. Remove the skillet from the oven and garnish the paella 
with the shrimp and mussels. Cover the skillet with a clean 
kitchen towel and let stand for 5 minutes.
11. Serve garnished with the lemon wedges and a parsley sprig. 
Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrig-
erator for up to 4 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Use bomba rice and pimentón de la Vera (Spanish smoked paprika).
WINE PAIRING 
Pair your paella with Sangria (page 139), a rosé from Navarra, or a 
verdejo from Rueda.
84 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSeafood Rice
ARROZ A BANDA
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
Though most Spaniards don’t eat the seafood that is used to make the 
stock for this dish (because the full flavor of it is in the rice already), in 
this rendition it gets served along with the rice. But if you’d prefer, save 
the leftover seafood to use in place of the ham in croquetas de jamón 
(Cured Ham Croquettes, page 18). Just chop it up and add it to the 
 béchamel instead of the ham.  SERVES 4
FOR THE SEAFOOD STOCK
2 leeks, well rinsed, each cut 
into 4 pieces
1 yellow onion, 
coarsely chopped
8 parsley sprigs
1 bay leaf, torn in half
1 small whole sea bass or 
branzino, cleaned and cut 
into quarters
8 ounces halibut, cut into 
3 fillets1 whole crab, cut in half
20 shell-on prawns, halved 
lengthwise
3 lobster tails (optional)
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
FOR THE PAELLA
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
1/4 cup Spanish Tomato 
Sauce (page 59) or 
store-bought
21/2 cups Arborio rice
1 lemon, halved
2 parsley sprigs
Aioli (page 40), for serving
TO MAKE THE SEAFOOD STOCK
1. In a large soup pot, combine the leeks, onion, parsley, bay leaf, sea bass, halibut, 
crab, prawns, lobster tails (if using), and enough water to cover all of the ingredi-
ents. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to medium and cook for  
15 to 20 minutes. This will make a flavorful but not overpowering fish stock. 
During cooking, skim off and discard the foam that forms on the surface.
2. Strain the fish stock through a fine-mesh sieve. Return the strained stock to the 
pot and place it over low heat to keep hot. Season it well with salt and pepper. 
Set the fish, crab, prawns, and lobster aside.85 Rice and PastaTO MAKE THE PAELLA
3. Preheat the oven to 375°F. 
4. In a large cast-iron or other ovenproof skillet, heat the olive 
oil over medium heat. When hot, add the garlic and sauté 
for 2 minutes. Stir the saff  ron into the garlic, then quickly 
add the tomato sauce and mix well. Stir in the rice and cook, 
stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes, until it turns opaque.
5. Add 51/2    cups of the hot stock and mix well. Increase the heat 
to bring the liquid to a boil and cook for 5 minutes.
6. Place the skillet in the oven for 15 minutes to fi  nish cooking.
7. Remove the skillet from the oven, cover it with a clean 
kitchen towel, and let sit for 5 to 10 minutes.
8. Serve the paella out of the skillet, garnished with the lemon 
halves and parsley sprigs, with a bowl of aioli alongside.
Place the reserved fi  sh, shrimp, crab, and lobster on a plate 
or platter and serve with the rice and aioli. The rice can be 
stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 
3 days. The seafood can be stored in a separate airtight 
 container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Spaniards also like to accompany rice dishes like this with sliced peeled 
tomatoes seasoned with fl  aky sea salt and extra-virgin olive oil. Also, to 
be more authentic, use bomba rice in place of Arborio.
WINE PAIRING 
A light and fruity albariño from Galicia will pair nicely with the seafood 
fl  avors of this rice dish.
86 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSquid Ink Black Rice
ARROZ NEGRO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
Arroz negro is for the adventurous who are willing to try squid ink. The 
ink turns the rice black, and its rich, briny flavor will captivate you and 
have you craving this wonderful Spanish dish over and over. To get the 
most explosive combination of flavors, pair this with Aioli (page 40),  
its inseparable companion in Spain.  SERVES 4
FOR THE BROTH
41/2 cups fish stock
4 ounces squid
1/2 cup white wine
4 (4-gram) pouches 
squid ink
Sea salt
FOR THE RICE
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil2 small yellow onions, 
finely chopped
4 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
4 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater1 pound calamari 
steaks, diced
2 cups bomba or 
Arborio rice
1 lemon, halved
1 parsley sprig
TO MAKE THE BROTH
1. In a medium soup pot, combine the stock and squid and bring to a boil over 
medium-high heat, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 20 minutes.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the wine and squid ink. Stir this into the pot with 
the  stock. Season well with salt.
3. Strain the hot broth through a fine-mesh sieve. Return it to the pot and keep hot 
over low heat.
TO MAKE THE RICE
4. Preheat the oven to 375°F. 
5. In a large cast-iron or other ovenproof skillet, heat the olive oil over low heat. 
When hot, add the onions and garlic and season with salt and pepper. Cook,  
stirring occasionally, for 20 to 25 minutes, until the onions are lightly golden. 
Add the grated tomatoes and stir for 2 minutes to release their liquid.87 Rice and Pasta6. Increase the heat to medium and stir in the diced squid. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes. Stir in the rice 
and toast it, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes, or until it 
turns opaque. Measure the strained hot broth; you should 
have 41/4 cups (add water if necessary to get to this amount). 
Add the broth to the pan, bring to a boil over high heat, and 
cook for 5 minutes.
7. Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook for 15 minutes.
8. Remove the skillet from the oven, cover it with a clean 
kitchen towel, and let sit for 5 minutes.
9. Serve the rice from the skillet, garnished with the lemon 
halves and parsley sprig. Store leftovers in an airtight con-
tainer in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
Some preparations include shrimp and mussels. Peel the uncooked 
shrimp and add the shells to the fi  sh stock to enhance the fl  avor of 
the broth. Sauté the shrimp in extra-virgin olive oil until they turn pink 
and add them to the skillet before you place it in the oven. Meanwhile, 
for the mussels, steam them in 1/2 cup white wine. When you remove 
the rice from the oven, place the mussels on top of the rice before you 
cover it with the towel.
WINE PAIRING 
A red wine from Empordà, Catalonia: Cabernet sauvignon, merlot, 
cariñena, and garnacha varietals will pair nicely with arroz negro.
88 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOK“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice
ARROZ MELOSO DE GAMBAS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
There are three ways to prepare rice in Spain: brothy, paella-style, or “hon-
eyed.” “Honeyed” refers to the texture, not an ingredient. Arroz meloso can 
be made with whatever you have at hand: vegetables, meat, fish. The three 
key factors are the starchy rice for a creamy, sticky texture; the broth; and 
the sofrito, which is the mixture of sautéed onions, peppers, garlic, and 
leeks—a must to start any Spanish rice dish.  SERVES 4
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
16 large shrimp, unpeeled
6 cups fish stock
1 cup dry white wine
1 leek, white and light green 
parts only, well rinsed and 
finely chopped1 sweet yellow onion, 
finely chopped
1 garlic clove, 
finely chopped
1 red bell pepper, 
finely chopped
1 green bell pepper, 
finely chopped2 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
Sea salt
2 cups bomba or 
Arborio rice
2 parsley sprigs, 
finely chopped
1. In a nonstick medium sauté pan or skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil 
over medium-high heat. When hot, add the shrimp and sauté for 3 minutes, until 
half cooked through and pink. Transfer to a plate until cool enough to handle, 
then peel the shrimp and reserve the shells. Set the shrimp aside.
2. In a large pot, combine the stock, wine, and reserved shrimp shells and bring to 
a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to a simmer to keep the stock hot.
3. In the same sauté pan or skillet, heat the remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil over 
medium heat. When hot, add the leek, onion, and garlic and sauté for 15 minutes, 
until soft and translucent. Add the bell peppers and sauté for 7 minutes, or until 
tender. Add the grated tomatoes and sauté for 5 minutes to release their liquid.
4. Add the smoked paprika and saffron to the fish stock. Season well with salt.
5. Add the rice to the pan with the vegetables and toast, stirring frequently, for  
5 minutes.89 Rice and Pasta6. Strain the stock (discard the shrimp shells). Add 1 cup of 
stock to the rice mixture and cook, stirring occasionally, 
until the liquid has been almost completely absorbed. Add 
another cup of stock and continue cooking, stirring occa-
sionally, and adding more stock as it is absorbed by the rice. 
Gradually adding the stock to the rice little by little gives it 
the “honeyed” texture. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 17 to 
20 minutes, until the rice is cooked through but still a bit 
al dente.
7. Stir in the shrimp and cook for 2 minutes longer. Remove 
from the heat, cover the pan with a clean kitchen towel, and 
let sit for 15 minutes.
8. Serve in a bowl topped with the parsley. Store any leftovers 
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
To use a box grater to grate tomatoes the way the Spaniards do, fi  rst 
cut a tiny bit off   of the tomato’s bottom to give you a fl  at surface to 
start with. Then grate the tomato on the large holes of the grater into 
a bowl (to collect the fl  esh and juices), leaving the skin behind. (Grated 
tomato is really the best option, but in a pinch you can substitute 
canned tomatoes.)
WINE PAIRING 
A white wine like a fruity, minerally godello from the Valdeorras 
appellation or a light-bodied herbaceous verdejo from Rueda will 
pair nicely with your “honeyed” rice.
90 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKVegetable Garden Rice
ARROZ DE LA HUERTA
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
This dish is also known as arroz viudo (“widowed rice”) because it doesn’t 
have meat or fish. It uses any vegetables you might have on hand, so be 
ingenious and creative. Spaniards enjoy a touch of cured ham with their 
veggies, so add some chopped prosciutto if you want. SERVES 4
FOR THE BROTH
41/2 cups vegetable broth
2 parsley sprigs
1 leek, cleaned and cut into 
4 pieces
1/2 white onion
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
FOR THE RICE
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1/2 yellow onion, 
finely chopped2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1/2 cup chopped red 
bell pepper
3 medium artichokes
1 lemon, halved
1/2 cup asparagus tips
4 ounces chopped 
prosciutto (optional)
1 marinated 
sun-dried tomato 
(optional) chopped4 ounces green beans, 
trimmed and cut 
into thirds
3 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
1/2 cup frozen shelled 
edamame, thawed
1/2 cup green peas
2 cups bomba or 
Arborio rice
TO MAKE THE BROTH
1. In a medium soup pot, combine the broth, parsley, leek, and onion. Season well 
with salt and pepper. Heat over medium-high heat until hot, then reduce the 
heat to low and keep the broth hot until needed.
TO MAKE THE RICE
2. Preheat the oven to 375°F. 
3. In a large cast-iron or other ovenproof skillet, heat the olive oil over low heat. 
When hot, add the onion and garlic and sauté for 15 minutes, until translucent. 
Add the bell pepper and sauté for 10 minutes, until soft.91 Rice and Pasta4. Meanwhile, clean the artichokes by cutting off   the stems and 
removing the outer darker green leaves until you get to the 
lighter-colored inner leaves. Cut one-third off   of the top and 
carefully cut around the bottom where the stem was, leaving 
it nice and clean. Use a spoon to scrape out the fuzzy choke 
from the middle. Rub the artichoke with the lemon, then 
thinly slice lengthwise. 
5. Stir the artichoke slices and asparagus tips into the skillet 
and sauté for 5 minutes.
6. If using the prosciutto and sun-dried tomato, add them and 
sauté for 4 minutes. Add the green beans and sauté for 
5 minutes. Stir in the grated tomatoes and cook for 
2 minutes to release their liquid. Stir in the smoked paprika, 
saff  ron, edamame, and peas and mix well.
7. Add the rice and toast well, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes. 
Measure out 41/2    cups of the hot broth (add water if nec-
essary to come to that amount). Add the broth to the pan, 
increase the heat to high, and cook for 5 minutes. Transfer 
the skillet to the oven for 15 minutes to fi  nish cooking.
8. Remove the skillet from the oven, cover it with a clean 
kitchen towel, and let sit for 15 minutes. 
9. Serve the rice directly from the skillet. Store any leftovers in 
an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
WINE PAIRING 
A nice dry verdejo from Rueda will pair nicely with this rice dish.
92 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSailor’s Rice
ARROZ MARINERO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 55 minutes
Arroz marinero is a brothy seafood lover’s favorite. It’s the perfect dish 
to entertain on a chilly spring day. Feel free to use your preferred fish or 
shellfish, as the dish is intended to be chock-full of treasures from the 
sea. A large wok is perfect for cooking this dish if you have one. Freeze 
any leftover fish stock for future recipes or to fortify any stock needed for 
some of the other rice and noodle dishes in this book.  SERVES 4
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
1 pound shrimp, unpeeled
10 cups fish stock
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper12 clams, such as manila
1 cup white wine
2 small yellow onions, 
finely chopped
1 large garlic clove, 
finely chopped
1 teaspoon smoked paprika1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
2 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
8 ounces squid rings
2 cups bomba or 
Arborio rice
4 mint sprigs
1. In large deep pot or wok, heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil over medium-high 
heat. When hot, add the shrimp and sauté for 2 minutes, or until pink in color. 
Remove the shrimp and set aside. When cool enough to handle, peel the shrimp 
and reserve the shells.
2. In a medium soup pot, combine the fish stock and reserved shrimp shells and 
set over high heat. When the stock is hot, reduce the heat to a simmer to keep 
warm. Season with salt and pepper.
3. In a small skillet, combine the clams and wine. Set over medium-high heat, 
cover, and steam for 3 to 5 minutes, until the clams open. Discard any unopened 
clams. Place the clams on a plate and set aside. Add the steaming liquid to the 
pot with the stock and season with more salt and pepper if needed.
4. In the same pot or wok used to cook the shrimp, heat the remaining 3 table-
spoons olive oil over low heat. When hot, add the onions and garlic and sauté for 
15 minutes, until soft and translucent. Stir in the smoked paprika and the saffron, 
then quickly add the grated tomatoes and sauté for 2 more minutes to release 
their liquid. Add the squid rings and sauté for 2 minutes.93 Rice and Pasta5. Strain the hot stock through a fi  ne-mesh sieve. Pour 6 cups 
of the stock into the pot. Increase the heat to high and bring 
to a boil. Keep remaining stock hot in a separate pot on a 
separate burner.
6. Stir in rice and cook over high heat for 5 minutes.  Reduce 
to a simmer and cook for 20 minutes, adding the remaining 
stock little by little as it cooks and is absorbed by the rice. 
You will want it to be very brothy. When the rice still has 
3 minutes to go, add the shrimp and clams to the pot and 
continue cooking.
7. Serve in soup bowls or pasta dishes, garnished with a sprig 
of mint. Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days.
WINE PAIRING 
A nice godello from Galicia will pair nicely with this arroz marinero.
94 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKClay Pot Pork Noodles
FIDEOS A LA CAZUELA
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
The Spanish way of cooking noodles (which differs greatly from the 
method used in Italian recipes) has been recorded since medieval times. 
In Spain, noodles are toasted with sautéed onions, garlic, veggies, and 
protein, then stewed in a rich and delicious stock. Fideos a la cazuela, a 
typical dish from Catalonia, is made with pork ribs and pancetta, but it  
is also delicious with fresh sausage.  SERVES 4
8 pork ribs, separated
1 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
more to taste
3 garlic cloves: 1 smashed 
and 2 chopped
5 cups beef brothFreshly ground 
black pepper
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
1/2 cup chopped pancetta
1 small yellow onion, 
finely chopped5 scallions, cut into 
11/2-inch pieces
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
3 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
2 cups fideo noodles or 
broken angel hair pasta
1. In a large soup pot, combine the ribs, salt, smashed garlic clove, and cold water 
to cover. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat and simmer for  
15 minutes. Remove the ribs from the pot and cut the meat off of the bones; set 
the meat aside and discard the bones. Set the pork broth aside.
2. In the same soup pot, combine the beef broth, 2 cups of the pork broth, and salt 
and pepper to taste. Heat over medium-high heat until hot, then reduce the heat 
to keep the broth warm.
3. In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high heat. 
When hot, add the pancetta and sauté for 5 minutes, until browned. Remove the 
pancetta from the pan and set aside.
4. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon olive oil to the pan. When hot, add the rib meat 
and brown it on all sides for 8 to 10 minutes, until crispy. Mix in the pancetta.
5. Push the meat and pancetta to edges of the pan. Reduce the heat to low, add the 
2 chopped garlic cloves to the center of the pan, and sauté for 2 minutes. Add 
the onion and a pinch of salt and sauté for 15 minutes, until soft and translucent. 
Move the onions to the edges of the pan, add the scallions, and sauté until soft. 95 Rice and PastaStir in the smoked paprika, grated tomatoes, and another 
pinch of salt and cook for 2 minutes for the tomatoes to 
release their liquid.
6. Stir the meats in with the vegetables, then stir in the noo-
dles. Cook, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes to toast the 
noodles well. Spread the ingredients in an even layer over 
the pan, then cover with about 5 cups of the hot broth. Bring 
to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to low and 
cook for 15 minutes. Add more stock little by little as it is 
absorbed until the noodles are cooked. Add boiling water if 
more stock is needed as it is absorbed by the noodles.
7. Serve the noodles directly from the pan. Store any leftovers 
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Try making this dish with fresh sausage or chorizo. Chicken or duck 
sausage will also work—just use chicken or vegetable broth instead of 
beef broth.
WINE PAIRING 
The intense fl  avors of this dish will pair well with the savory qualities of 
an oak-aged tempranillo from the Rioja appellation.
96 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKWild Mushroom Noodles
FIDEUA DE SETAS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes
Easier to make than paella, fideua is the perfect dish for entertaining 
because you can casually finish the dish while enjoying a glass of wine 
with your guests. A popular legend says that fideua was accidentally  
created when a ship’s cook ran out of rice while preparing paella for the 
crew and used pasta to complete the dish. Traditionally, fideua is made 
with 100-percent semolina fideo noodles, which resemble very short 
lengths of angel hair pasta.  SERVES 4
3/4 ounce dried porcini 
mushrooms
2 cups boiling water
6 cups vegetable broth
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 white onion, 
finely chopped1 leek, white and light green 
parts only, well rinsed and 
finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, 
finely chopped
1 green bell pepper, 
finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
12 ounces white 
mushrooms, slicedSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
12 ounces fideo noodles or 
broken angel hair pasta
1 tablespoon chopped 
fresh parsley
Aioli (page 40), for serving
1. In a small heatproof bowl, combine the porcinis and boiling water. Set aside to 
soak for 15 minutes. Drain the mushrooms, reserving the liquid, then chop the 
mushrooms.
2. In a medium pot, heat the broth over medium heat. When hot, reduce the 
heat to low to keep the broth hot until needed. Add the reserved mushroom 
 soaking liquid.
3. In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium-low heat. When hot, add the 
onion, leek, and garlic and sauté for 15 minutes, until translucent. Add the bell 
pepper and porcinis and cook until tender, about 5 minutes. If the vegetables 
seem too dry, sprinkle them with a bit of broth to moisten. Add the saffron and 
white mushrooms and sauté for 5 minutes, until tender and lightly browned. 
Season with salt and black pepper.97 Rice and Pasta4. Add the noodles to the pan and toast lightly, stirring often, 
for 5 minutes. Add enough of the broth to cover the noodles. 
Bring to a simmer and cook for 15 to 20 minutes, until the 
noodles are cooked through and tender. Add more broth to 
the pan as it is absorbed by the noodles. Add boiling water if 
more stock is needed as it is absorbed by the noodles. 
5. Remove the pan from the heat, cover with a large kitchen 
towel, and let sit for 10 minutes.
6. Serve the noodles from the skillet, garnished with the pars-
ley, with a bowl of aioli alongside. Store any leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
SUBSTITUTION
Use any fresh mushrooms available at your local market (or a mixture) 
in place of the white mushrooms.
WINE PAIRING 
Try this dish with a red wine with notes of red and black fruits. I 
recommend the varietals monastrell and cabernet of the appellation 
of Jumilla.
98 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKShrimp and Clam Noodles
FIDEOS CON GAMBAS Y ALMEJAS
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
This is the noodle version of brothy rice, reminiscent of Andalucía’s rich 
maritime heritage and one of the hallmarks of the Mediterranean diet. It 
combines flavors and aromas of the sea with garden ingredients, olive oil, 
paprika, and saffron. Its flavor is boosted with majado, a paste made from 
garlic, parsley, and saffron. Majado is used in many rice dishes and stews. 
A large wok is perfect for making this dish if you have one.  SERVES 4
8 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
12 ounces medium shrimp, 
peeled, shells reserved
8 cups fish stock
1/2 cup white wine
Fine sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper1 pound clams, such as 
manila or littleneck
1 cup water
2 garlic cloves
1 teaspoon saffron threads
Leaves from 7 sprigs parsley, 
plus 2 whole sprigs
1 yellow onion, 
finely chopped1 red bell pepper, 
finely chopped
2 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1 tablespoon 
smoked paprika
21/2 cups elbow macaroni
1 lemon, halved
1. In a large soup pot, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high 
heat. When hot, add the shrimp shells and sauté for 5 minutes. Add the stock 
and wine. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 15 to 
20  minutes to develop the flavors. Strain the broth through a fine-mesh sieve 
and return it to the pot. Season well with salt and black pepper. Set the pot over 
low heat to keep the broth hot.
2. In a large skillet, combine the clams and water. Set over medium-high heat, 
cover, and steam for 3 to 5 minutes, until the clams open. Discard any unopened 
clams. Set the opened clams aside. Strain the liquid used to steam the clams and 
add it to the pot with the broth. Remove the clam meat from all but 10 shells, 
saving those to garnish your dish.
3. To make the majado, place the garlic, saffron, and parsley leaves in a mortar and 
use the pestle to mix and crush them into a paste. Set aside.99 Rice and Pasta4. In a large wok, deep sauté pan, or deep skillet, heat 3 table-
spoons of the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
shrimp and sauté for 3 to 5 minutes, until pink. Remove 
the shrimp and set aside.
5. Add the remaining 3 tablespoons olive oil to the wok or pan. 
Add the onion and bell pepper and season with salt and 
black pepper. Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, for 
15  minutes, or until the onion is soft and translucent and the 
bell pepper is tender. Add the grated tomatoes and cook, 
stirring, for 2 minutes to release their liquid. Stir in the paprika. 
Bring the mixture to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. If the mix-
ture seems dry, add just enough broth to keep it moist.
6. Stir in the macaroni and toast, stirring frequently, until 
golden, about 5 minutes. Increase the heat to medium-high 
and add half of the hot broth to cover all the ingredients. 
Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. Stir in the majado 
and season with salt and black pepper. Reduce the heat to 
a simmer. Keep the remaining broth hot and add it little by 
little as the broth is absorbed by the noodles. This will take 
between 15 and 25 minutes.
7. When noodles are almost cooked, stir in the clam meat. To 
serve, lay the shrimp and whole clams in their shells on top. 
Garnish with the lemon halves and whole parsley sprigs. 
Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigera-
tor for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
A terra cotta casserole dish called a cazuela  will make for a more 
authentic presentation. They are easy to fi  nd online.
WINE PAIRING 
A refreshing fruity white wine with a touch of citrus like a godello from 
Galicia or a verdejo from Rueda pairs nicely with this dish.
100 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKTomato and Chorizo Penne
MACARONES CON TOMATE Y CHORIZO
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
Treat your friends and family to some traditional Spanish comfort food. 
The simplest version of Spanish “mac ’n’ cheese” is made with two 
favorite Spanish ingredients: tomato and chorizo. You can use home-
made tomato sauce and authentic Spanish chorizo or a good-quality 
ready-made sauce and hickory-smoked Portuguese-style linguiça,  
available at most supermarkets.  SERVES 6
Sea salt
12 ounces penne pasta
1/2 pound chorizo, chopped
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 cups Spanish Tomato 
Sauce (page 59)1/3 cup red wine
1 teaspoon fresh or 
dried thyme
2 teaspoons fresh or dried 
oregano, divided
1 cup shredded whole-milk 
mozzarella cheese1/2 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese
1 tablespoon chiffonade-cut 
fresh basil (ribbons)
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Add the penne and cook until al dente 
according to package directions. Drain well.
3. Heat a small skillet over medium-high heat. When hot, add the chorizo and olive 
oil and fry until the sausage is crispy. Set aside.
4. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the tomato sauce over medium heat. 
When hot, add the wine, thyme, 1 teaspoon of the oregano, and salt to taste. 
Cook for about 3 minutes to burn off the alcohol. Add the chorizo and mix well.
5. In a small bowl, combine the mozzarella, Parmesan, basil, and remaining 1 tea -
spoon oregano. Mix well.101 Rice and Pasta6. Stir the drained pasta into the tomato sauce. Transfer to a 
9-by-13-inch baking dish. Spread the cheese mixture over 
the top. 
7. Bake for 15 minutes, or until the cheese melts. Serve hot. 
Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigera-
tor for up to 4 days.
DIFFERENT SPINS
Use any good melting cheese such as Fontina, Gouda (not aged), 
Havarti, Manchego, Monterey Jack, or pecorino instead of the moz-
zarella. Or add about 8 slices of fresh mozzarella or burrata for extra 
creaminess.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish will pair best with a fruity and full-bodied garnacha 
from Aragon.
103
CHAPTER SIX4Meats and Seafood
Spain is famous for its quality and variety of seafood, which plays a  
prominent role in every region’s cuisine. But the country’s meat and  
poultry dishes are just as important. For centuries, Muslim, Jewish,  
and Christian settlers consumed lamb in the Iberian Peninsula, greatly  
influencing the Spanish food culture. Iberian pork produces one of  
Spain’s culinary jewels: jamón ibérico de bellota , acorn-fed cured  
Iberian ham. This chapter will introduce you to some of Spain’s most  
delectable meat and seafood classics.
Meatballs in Grandma’s Sauce  104
Sailor-Style Clams  106
Andalucían Fried Marinated Mahimahi  107
Cod with Raisins and Pine Nuts  108
Sea Bass on Its Back  110
Squid in Onion Sauce  112
Squid in Ink Sauce  114
Vine Shoot–Grilled Lamb Chops  115
Roasted Leg of Lamb  116
Salt-Roasted Sea Bass  118
Garlic Chicken  119
Halibut in Green Sauce with Clams  120
Rock Cod with Txakoli  121
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper Sauce  122
Scallops with Cured Ham  124
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper Sauce (page 122)104 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKMeatballs in  
Grandma’s Sauce
ALBÓNDIGAS EN SALSA DE LA ABUELA
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
Albóndigas are part of the culinary inheritance from the Al-Andalus, the 
Muslim kingdom that occupied the Iberian Peninsula during the Middle 
Ages. The word albóngidas comes from the Arabic al-búndiga, which is  
la bola in Spanish, and “ball” in English. In Spain, you can find them as a 
tapa at your local bar, but they are an all-time favorite at every home with 
Grandma’s traditional meatball recipe. Serve them with potatoes: crispy 
oven-roasted, fried, cubed, or mashed.  SERVES 4
4 garlic cloves: 1 sliced,  
3 finely chopped
Leaves from 5 parsley sprigs, 
leaves picked, plus 4 whole 
sprigs, chopped
1 cup fino sherry
1 pound ground 
beef (80/20)4 ounces ground pork
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 large eggs, beaten
1 medium yellow onion, 
finely chopped1 tablespoon fine dried 
bread crumbs
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus 3 tablespoons
1 large yellow onion, sliced
1 cup beef broth
1. In a mortar, combine the sliced garlic clove, parsley leaves, and sherry and crush 
with the pestle to form a paste (this mixture is called a majado). (Alternatively, 
place the ingredients in a small bowl and use a stick blender to combine them.) 
Set aside.
2. In a large bowl, combine the ground beef and pork. Season with salt and pepper 
and mix to combine. Add the eggs, white onion, one-third of the chopped garlic, 
the chopped parsley, and the bread crumbs and mix well.
3. Roll the mixture into 11/2-inch balls. Place the flour in a shallow bowl and coat each 
meatball lightly in the flour. Set the meatballs aside on a sheet of wax paper.
4. In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 1/4 cup of the olive oil over medium-high 
heat. When hot, add the meatballs and cook for about 5 minutes, browning them 
on all sides. The exterior should be browned, but the meatballs should be rare 
inside. Be careful not to overcook. Transfer the meatballs to a plate and set aside.105 Meats and Seafood5. Reduce the heat to low and add the remaining 3 tablespoons 
olive oil. When hot, add the yellow onion and remaining 
chopped garlic and sauté for 15 to 20 minutes, until soft and 
translucent.
6. Add the broth and the majado. Bring to a boil over 
medium-high heat, then reduce to a simmer and cook for 
5 minutes, or until the sauce reaches your desired consis-
tency. Taste and season with salt and pepper, if needed.
7. Transfer the sauce to a blender and blend until smooth. 
Return the sauce to the pan, place over medium-high heat, 
and add the meatballs. Cook for 3 to 5 minutes, until the 
sauce warms and the meatballs are cooked through. Do not 
let the sauce boil or you will have dry meatballs.
8. Serve hot. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 5 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Use a sweet white wine in place of the sherry.
WINE PAIRING 
A red wine aged in oak for 12 months and with a mix of tempranillo, 
merlot, cabernet sauvignon, and syrah varietals will pair well with 
this dish.
106 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSailor-Style Clams
ALMEJAS A LA MARINERA
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
This dish originated in Galicia’s Rias Baixas region. It is traditionally made 
and served in a cazuela de barro, a terra cotta casserole dish. SERVES 4
11/2 cups white wine, divided
1 pound clams, manila 
or littleneck, rinsed in 
cold water
1 bay leaf
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 medium yellow onions, 
fi  nely chopped2 garlic cloves, minced
1 teaspoon sea salt
1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons Spanish 
Tomato Sauce (page 59)
1 tablespoon 
smoked paprikaPinch red pepper fl  akes, or 
to taste
1 teaspoon all-purpose fl  our 
(optional)
1/4 cup fi  nely chopped 
fresh parsley
1. In a medium soup pot, bring 1/2    cup of the wine to a boil over medium-high heat. 
Add the clams and bay leaf. Cover and steam for 2 minutes, until the clams open. 
Using a slotted spoon, remove the clams and set aside. Discard any unopened 
clams. Pour the liquid from the pot into a bowl and set aside.
2. In the same soup pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
onions, garlic, and salt and sauté for 15 to 20 minutes, until the onions are light 
brown in color. When the pan starts to get dry as the onions cook, add the water 
little by little so the onions do not burn.
3. Add the tomato sauce, smoked paprika, and pepper fl  akes and mix for 1 minute. 
Add the fl  our (if using), mixing well to ensure it cooks but being careful that it 
does not burn. This will thicken your sauce. Add the remaining 1 cup wine and 
the reserved clam cooking liquid. Cook for 10 minutes.
4. Return the clams to the pot and cook, stirring for 2 minutes to heat through.
5. Transfer to a bowl, sprinkle with the parsley, and serve. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
For an Asturian version, omit the tomato sauce.
WINE PAIRING 
Enjoy this dish with a Spanish white wine of the godello varietal, or try it with an albariño, 
which may be easier to fi  nd.
107 Meats and SeafoodAndalucían Fried 
Marinated Mahimahi
BIENMESABE
Prep time: 5 minutes, plus 6 hours to marinate  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
Bienmesabe (which means “it tastes good to me”) is a delicious represen-
tation of Andalucía’s famous fried fi  sh. It is usually made with cazón, a 
small shark (and is also known as cazón en adobo), but works well with 
mahimahi (as called for here) or swordfi  sh. Though quick to cook, the fi  sh 
has to marinate for at least 6 hours to get the fullest fl  avor. Accompany 
this dish with asadillo de pimientos andaluz (Roasted Pepper Salad, 
page 42) for a full Andalucían experience. SERVES 4
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1/2 teaspoon sea salt1/4 cup sherry vinegar
1 pound mahimahi, cut into 
2-inch pieces
2 bay leaves1 cup all-purpose fl  our
2 cups extra-virgin olive oil
Lemon slices, for garnish
1. In a large glass or other nonmetal bowl, mix together the cumin, paprika, oregano, 
salt, and vinegar. Add the mahimahi. Cut each bay leaf into 3 pieces and add them 
to the bowl. Mix well and add just enough water so the fi  sh is covered. Cover the 
bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 6 hours, or up to overnight.
2. Drain the fi  sh and discard the marinade. Place the fl  our on a plate. Using tongs, 
coat each piece of fi  sh well on all sides. Place the fi  sh in a sieve, a few pieces at a 
time, and shake off   any excess fl  our.
3. Line a plate with paper towels. In a saucepan no wider than 8 inches, heat the 
olive oil over high heat. When hot, work in batches to fry the fi  sh for 3 to 4 min-
utes, until golden brown. Transfer the fi  sh to the paper towel–lined plate to drain 
any excess oil.
4. Serve on a platter, garnished with lemon slices. Store leftovers in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. The fi  sh will remain moist and 
tender inside.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with a riesling and you will be pleasantly surprised! The wine’s subtle sweetness 
contrasts well with the marinade’s acidity. Try a manzanilla sherry to complete the meal.
108
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKCod with Raisins  
and Pine Nuts
BACALAO CON PASAS Y PIÑONES
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Cod is a favorite fish in Spain and can be found throughout several 
regions and in many different recipes. This dish, also known as bacalao 
a la catalana (Catalan-style cod), is traditionally made with salt cod (see 
Tip), but this version uses fresh cod to make things easier and quicker.  
SERVES 4
1/4 cup plus 5 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive 
oil, divided
2 (1/2-inch-thick) slices 
baguette, sliced on the 
diagonal
2 pounds cod filletsSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 medium yellow onion, 
thinly sliced4 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater
1 cup water
1 tablespoon pine nuts
1 tablespoon raisins
2 tablespoons chopped 
fresh parsley
1. In a nonstick medium sauté pan or skillet, heat 5 tablespoons of the olive oil 
over medium-high heat. When hot, add the bread slices and fry them for 2 min-
utes per side, until crisp on both sides. Set aside, leaving the oil in the pan.
2. Season the cod with salt and pepper. Place the flour on a plate and coat both 
sides of the fillets in it.
3. Set the pan over medium heat. When the oil is hot, add the cod and pan-fry for  
5 minutes per side, until opaque and flaky. Transfer to a plate.
4. Reduce the heat to medium-low and add the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil. When 
hot, add the onion and sauté for 15 minutes, or until browned. If the pan gets dry 
as the onion cooks, add a little water.
5. Add the grated tomatoes, reduce the heat to low, and simmer for about 3 min-
utes to release their liquid. Add the 1 cup water, the pine nuts, and the raisins. 
Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce to a simmer and cook for  
10 minutes.109 Meats and Seafood6. Crush the fried bread and add it to the pan to thicken the 
sauce. Add the cod and season with salt and pepper.
7. Serve on a platter or in a cazuela, garnished with the pars-
ley. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator 
for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Using salt cod gives the sauce a more emulsifi  ed texture. To use salt 
cod, it fi  rst has to be soaked to remove some of the salt: Cover the cod 
with cool water and refrigerate for 24 hours, changing the water every 
8 hours. Fresh black cod can also be used and is delicious in this recipe.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a sparkling or still rosé. Look for a rosé from 
Navarra or a rosé cava from Catalonia.
110
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSea Bass on Its Back
BESUGO A LA ESPALDA
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
This traditional dish, also known as besugo a la donostiarra, which 
means “red sea bream from San Sebastián,” can be made with any type 
of flaky white-fleshed fish fillet, but it is best when the skin is left on. It 
is presented a la espalda (on its back), served open-faced with the sauce 
poured over it. This dish pairs well with boiled peeled potatoes seasoned 
with flaky sea salt, black pepper, and extra-virgin olive oil, or with  
Baker’s Potatoes (page 52).  SERVES 4
4 skin-on sea bass or 
branzino fillets (about  
4 ounces each)
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper8 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
4 garlic cloves, sliced
Red pepper flakes
1/4 cup fresh parsley leaves, 
finely chopped1/2 cup dry white wine
1/4 cup sherry vinegar or red 
wine vinegar
Flaky sea salt
1. Pat the fish skin dry with a paper towel. Season both sides of the fish with salt 
and black pepper.
2. In a large nonstick skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high 
heat. When hot, add the fish, skin-side down, and cook 5 to 7 minutes (depend-
ing on the size of the fillets), until the edge of the skin turns golden brown. 
Carefully flip the fillets over and cook for 2 minutes more, until flaky. Transfer 
the fish to a platter. 
3. In a small skillet, heat the remaining 6 tablespoons olive oil over medium 
heat. When hot, add the garlic and pepper flakes to taste and sauté for about 
1 minute to lightly brown the garlic, being careful not to burn it. Add the parsley, 
wine, and vinegar and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover, and simmer for 
5 minutes. 111 Meats and Seafood4. Pour the sauce over the fi  sh and serve immediately, sprin-
kled with fl  aky sea salt. Store leftovers in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
DIFFERENT SPIN
This recipe works well with any white-fl  eshed fl  aky fi  sh, but salmon will 
work well, too. Traditionally the skin is left on the fi  llets, but it is delicious 
without the skin as well. Just shorten the cooking time on the fi  rst side 
to 5 minutes.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a white garnacha or viura from La Rioja.
112 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSquid in Onion Sauce
CALAMARES ENCEBOLLADOS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
Legend has it that there was a surge in the squid population in the  
20th century in Getaria, a town on the Basque coast, and a chef who was 
tired of always making calamari in squid ink decided to innovate. This 
recipe was the result, and it has become a star dish of Basque cuisine.  
The calamari are cooked smothered in a divine golden-brown caramel-
ized onion sauce. It is delicious and easy to make, but to save time you 
must buy your squid already cleaned!  SERVES 4
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
4 garlic cloves, sliced
2 medium yellow onions, 
coarsely chopped 
1 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
more for seasoning1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper, plus more 
for seasoning
2 bay leaves
1/3 cup water, as needed
3/4 cup white wine2 pounds calamari rings and 
tentacles
Cooked white rice, 
for serving
1. In a large pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the garlic  
and cook for 1 minute to lightly brown. Add the onions, salt, pepper, and  
bay leaves, mixing well. Cover the pot and cook until liquid releases, about  
5 minutes. Uncover and sauté the onions, stirring occasionally, for 15 to  
20 minutes, until they are golden brown. Add water, if needed, little by little  
until the golden color is obtained.
2. Increase the heat to high and add the wine. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 
2 minutes to burn off the alcohol.
3. Add the calamari and sauté for 2 to 3 minutes, until it begins to turn opaque. 
Reduce the heat to medium, cover the pot, and simmer for 20 minutes, until the 
calamari becomes tender.113 Meats and Seafood4. Serve in a wide bowl, accompanied by white rice to soak up 
the caramelized onion sauce. This dish is even better the 
following day. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days. You can also freeze it for up to 
1 month.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Cádiz, Andalucía, world-famous for their unique method of tuna 
fi  shing (called almadraba), they make this dish with tuna instead of 
squid. Use 11/4 pounds fresh bluefi  n tuna. Once you add it to the pot, let 
it simmer for just a few minutes to avoid overcooking it.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair this dish with a Spanish sauvignon blanc, which is produced in 
various regions: Rueda, Penedès, Valencia, Mallorca, Castilla y Léon, 
La Mancha, and Navarra.
114 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSquid in Ink Sauce
CALAMARES EN SU TINTA
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour
Although considered a Basque delicacy, this dish is a treasured comfort food 
throughout Spain. You will fi  nd it as a tapa at bars or made into croquettes. 
More upscale versions can include calamari stuff  ed with garlic, oregano, 
leeks, carrots, chopped tentacles, Serrano ham, or even crab. SERVES 4
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
4 medium yellow 
onions, chopped
2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 tablespoon Spanish 
Tomato Sauce (page 59; 
optional)2 (4-gram) pouches 
squid ink
2 pounds calamari rings
1 cup red wine
1 cup water, as needed
Sea saltFreshly ground 
black pepper
Finely chopped fresh 
parsley 
Cooked white rice, 
for serving
1. In a large pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, reduce the heat 
to low and add the onions, mixing well. Cover the pot and cook the onions until 
the liquid releases, about 5 minutes. Uncover and cook for 15 minutes, until the 
onions become soft and translucent.
2. Meanwhile, place the garlic, tomato sauce (if using), and squid ink in a mortar 
and crush and mix well with the pestle. Set aside.
3. Add the calamari and wine to the onions and simmer for 2 to 3 minutes to 
burn off   the alcohol. Add the garlic mixture to the pan and mix well. Cover and 
simmer for 40 minutes. Add up to 1 cup water as needed little by little if the pot 
starts to become dry. Taste and season with salt and pepper.
4. Transfer to a wide bowl or cazuela and garnish with parsley. Serve with rice. 
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
Though it will take more time, it’s even easier to put all of the ingredients (except for the salt 
and pepper) in a pot, bring to a boil over medium heat, reduce the heat to low, and simmer for 
2 hours. Season with salt and pepper to taste before serving.
WINE PAIRING 
Try an albariño from Galicia or a red tempranillo from La Rioja.
115 Meats and SeafoodVine Shoot–Grilled 
Lamb Chops
CHULETILLAS DE CORDERO AL SARMIENTO
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes
A classic Spanish method of cooking lamb chops is to grill them over 
tied vine shoots that have burnt down to hot embers. In this recipe, a very 
hot cast-iron skillet stands in for a grill and vine shoots (impossible to 
fi  nd unless you live near a vineyard). Enjoy the lamb chops with Roasted 
Pepper Salad from Andalucía (page 42), Romesco Sauce (page 54), or 
Spicy Mojo Sauce (page 51). SERVES 4
16 lamb rib chops (see Tip) 
Flaky sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper2 teaspoons fi  nely chopped 
fresh rosemary leaves
2 teaspoons fresh 
thyme leaves1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup red wine, preferably 
tempranillo
1. Season the lamb chops with salt and pepper. Sprinkle with the rosemary 
and thyme.
2. In a 12-inch cast-iron skillet, heat the olive oil over high heat. When very hot (it 
must be very hot to achieve a juicy interior and a crispy exterior on the meat), 
add about half the lamb chops (or whatever will fi  t in a single layer) and cook 
for 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the chops over and cook for 2 to 3 minutes on the 
other side. Flip the chops over and cook for 2 more minutes on each side for an 
extra-crispy exterior. Repeat with the remaining chops
3. Return all the chops to the pan. Pour the wine over the lamb chops and cook for 
1 minute.
4. Serve on a platter. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 
up to 3 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
It is important to buy the smallest lamb chops available. In Spain, suckling lamb chops are 
used, which have a milder fl  avor. The younger the lamb, the lighter the fl  avor. 
WINE PAIRING 
Serve with a tempranillo from La Rioja or a rosé of tempranillo and garnacha varietals 
from Navarra.
116 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKRoasted Leg of Lamb
CORDERO ASADO
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 2 hours
Roasted lamb, traditionally enjoyed during festivities and holidays, is the 
dish most typical of Castilian cuisine. It is often roasted with just salt and 
water and is always served with potatoes and a salad of lettuce, tomatoes, 
and sweet onions. Look for a smaller leg of lamb, which will give a more 
subtle and elegant flavor to your roast. In Spain, suckling or young lamb 
is usually used.  SERVES 6
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, divided4 large Yukon Gold 
potatoes, sliced  
1/4 inch thick
16 garlic cloves:  
10 unpeeled, 6 peeled
1 (3-pound) boneless 
leg of lamb1/2 cup fresh parsley leaves, 
finely chopped
2 tablespoons fresh 
rosemary leaves, plus  
4 rosemary sprigs
1 cup white wine
1 cup water
1. Preheat the oven to 390°F.
2. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the bottom of a large roasting pan. Drizzle 1/4 cup 
of the olive oil over the bottom of the pan. Spread the sliced potatoes over the 
bottom of the pan and mix the 10 unpeeled garlic cloves among them.
3. Season the lamb with salt and pepper and rub with 1/4 cup of the olive oil to coat 
all sides. Place the lamb on top of the potatoes.
4. In a mortar, combine the 6 peeled garlic cloves, the parsley, rosemary leaves, and 
a couple spoonfuls of the wine and crush with the pestle. Transfer to a medium 
bowl and add the remaining wine and 1/2 cup olive oil. Add the 1 cup water and 
mix well. Pour the liquid over the lamb and the potatoes.
5. Roast the lamb for 11/2 hours, basting it every 20 minutes with the juices it 
releases. Add water to the pan if needed for the basting liquid. Increase the oven 
temperature to 420°F and roast for 30 minutes to brown the exterior of the lamb. 
For medium-rare, the internal temperature should register between 130° and 
135°F on an instant-read thermometer.117 Meats and Seafood6. Remove the lamb from the oven and let sit for 15 minutes 
before slicing. Check that the potatoes are cooked through. 
Leave them in the oven if additional time is needed. Serve 
on a large platter with the potatoes, garnished with the rose-
mary sprigs. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 5 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
Use your leftover lamb to make a lamb chilindrón following the 
recipe for Chicken in Tomato-Pepper Sauce (page 122). Use cubes 
of roast lamb in place of the chicken called for, but only sauté it for 
about 5 minutes. 
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with a Ribera del Duero, the most prestigious wine 
region in Castilla y Léon.
118 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSalt-Roasted Sea Bass
LUBINA A LA SAL
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
This dish is just about everywhere in beach restaurants on Andalucía’s 
Costa del Sol. Cooking the whole fi  sh in a “shell” of salt is the best way to 
enjoy the fi  sh’s natural fl  avor. The salt crust maintains the fi  sh’s moisture, 
giving it a perfect fl  aky texture without making it too salty. SERVES 4
1 whole sea bass (2 pounds), 
cleaned, with skin 
and head on4 pounds coarse sea salt
1/4 cup waterAioli (page 40), mayonnaise, 
or extra-virgin olive oil, 
for serving
1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 350°F. 
2. Rinse the fi  sh inside and out and pat dry with paper towels.
3. In a baking pan big enough to accommodate the whole fi  sh, create a bed of 
coarse sea salt using one-third of the salt and lay the fi  sh on top. Mix the remain-
ing salt with the water and cover the fi  sh entirely. Pat it down to compress the 
salt onto the fi  sh, which will create a good crust and seal the fi  sh.
4. Bake the fi  sh for 20 minutes.
5. Remove the fi  sh from the oven and immediately crack the crust open, removing 
the salt entirely. Discard the salt crust. Cut through the skin alongside the spine 
to open the fi  sh. Separate the meat from the skin and transfer the fi  sh to a warm 
platter.
6. Serve with aioli or mayonnaise, or sprinkle with extra-virgin olive oil.
TECHNIQUE TIP
At your local fi  sh market, request to have the scales and guts removed from the fi  sh but the 
head left on.
SUBSTITUTION
It is best to use a large white-fl  eshed fi  sh such as sea bass, turbot, or snapper, but sea bream 
and branzino will work, too. Y ou can also roast two smaller fi  sh together. For every pound of 
fi  sh, you will need 2 pounds salt. Bake the fi  sh at 350°F for 10 minutes per pound.
WINE PAIRING 
Pair it with a chilled Fino sherry from Jerez de la Frontera, readily available in North America.
119 Meats and SeafoodGarlic Chicken
POLLO AL AJILLO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 25 minutes
Pollo al ajillo is an easy dish to love with its perfectly browned chicken, 
juicy as can be, and mouthwatering garlic sauce that you will surely want 
to dip your bread in. SERVES 4
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
12 garlic cloves, peeled
2 pounds boneless, skinless 
chicken thighs, cut into 
2-inch piecesSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper1 cup white wine
1 parsley sprig, for garnish
Rice or French fries, 
for serving
1. In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the garlic 
and sauté for 5 minutes, until browned. 
2. Meanwhile, season the chicken with 1 teaspoon each of salt and pepper.
3. Using tongs or a slotted spoon, remove the garlic and set aside. Increase the 
heat to medium-high and add the chicken. Cook until browned on both sides,  
10 to 15 minutes.
4. Add the wine and return the garlic to the pan. Cover and cook for  
15 minutes to make the sauce and garlic cloves creamy. Season to taste with  
salt and pepper.
5. Serve the chicken on a plate with the sauce and garlic cloves poured over 
it.  Garnish with the parsley and accompany with rice or French fries. Store 
 leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
To add a taste of Andalucía, substitute fino sherry for the wine. 
DIFFERENT SPINS
Add a pinch of red pepper flakes for a hint of spice. And if you want to have more sauce, add 
1/2 cup chicken broth 5 minutes after adding the wine.120 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKHalibut in Green Sauce 
with Clams
MERLUZA EN SALSA VERDE CON ALMEJAS
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
One of Spain’s most popular seafood dishes, this traditional Basque favor-
ite is made here with halibut, which best resembles the Spanish merluza. 
It is often garnished with hard-boiled eggs and white asparagus and pre-
sented in a terra cotta cazuela. SERVES 4
7 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
4 halibut steaks (8 ounces 
each), cut 2 inches thick
4 garlic cloves, sliced11/2 teaspoons 
all-purpose fl  our
1/2 cup dry white wine
21/4 cups clam broth or 
fi  sh stock12 clams, such as manila or 
littleneck
1 cup green peas (optional)
2 tablespoons fi  nely 
chopped fresh parsley
1. In a medium skillet, heat 1/4    cup of the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the 
fi  sh and brown for about 5 minutes on each side. Transfer to a plate and set aside.
2. In the same skillet, heat 3 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the garlic and cook for 1 minute to lightly brown. Remove the pan from the heat 
and add the fl  our, whisking for 1 minute. Whisk in the wine, then the broth. Set the 
pan over high heat and cook, whisking, for 2 minutes to thicken the sauce. 
3. Add the clams, peas (if using), and fi  sh. Shake the pan and cook for 6 minutes, 
until the clams open. Discard any unopened clams. Finish by sprinkling the 
parsley over the top.
4. Serve the fi  sh in a deep serving dish or in individual bowls, topped with clams, 
peas, and sauce. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Garnish the dish with halved or quartered hard-boiled eggs and white asparagus.
WINE PAIRING 
This dish pairs well with an albariño, verdejo, or chardonnay.
121 Meats and SeafoodRock Cod with Txakoli
RODABALLO AL TXAKOLI
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Txakoli is the wine of the Basques. It is popularly consumed in every 
caserio (country farmhouse). It is a dry, slightly sparkling, usually white 
wine that is often used to cook fi  sh. SERVES 4
1 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, divided
2 medium yellow onions, 
fi  nely chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
Sea saltFreshly ground 
black pepper
2 pounds rock cod fi  llets
16 clams, such as manila or 
littleneck (optional)
1 cup dry white 
wine, divided1/4 cup apple cider vinegar
8 medium shrimp, peeled 
and deveined (optional)
1 cup green peas
1/4 cup fi  nely chopped 
fresh parsley
1. In a large nonstick skillet, heat ⅓    cup of the olive oil over medium-low heat. 
When hot, add the onions and garlic and sauté for 10 to 15 minutes, until soft 
and translucent. Season with salt and pepper and transfer to a bowl.
2. Season the fi  sh with salt and pepper and cut each fi  llet in half. In the same skil-
let, heat the remaining ⅔    cup olive oil over medium heat. When hot, add the cod 
and brown on both sides, about 5 minutes total.
3. Return the onions and garlic to the pan and add the clams (if using) and 1/2    cup 
of the wine. Cook for about 5 minutes, shaking the pan constantly. The constant 
motion will allow the cod to almost emulsify with the oil. Turn the fi  sh over and 
add the vinegar and remaining 1/2    cup wine.
4. Add the shrimp (if using), peas, and parsley and cook, shaking the pan occasion-
ally, for about 5 minutes to thicken the sauce.
5. Transfer the fi  sh to a serving dish and spoon the sauce, clams, and shrimp over 
it. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
This dish would traditionally be made with salt cod. To use salt cod, fi  rst cover it with cold 
water and refrigerate it for 24 hours, changing the water about every 8 hours (alternatively, 
run it under cold water and then quickly wash it in boiling water 3 or 4 times). 
WINE PAIRING 
Try this dish with Ameztoi Txakolina Rosé.
122 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKChicken in  
Tomato-Pepper Sauce
POLLO AL CHILINDRÓN
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes
Chilindrón refers to the perfect combination of three basic ingredients 
in Spanish cuisine: red bell pepper, onion, and tomato. The name comes 
from the winning hand—“jack, horse, king”—in an old card game (played 
with the traditional deck of Spanish playing cards) called chilindrón. 
Common to both Aragón and Navarra (where they add green bell peppers 
and often make the dish with rabbit), this is the Aragonian version. Serve 
with roasted potatoes or white rice.  SERVES 4
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
4 garlic cloves: 2 crushed, 
2 sliced
2 pounds boneless, skinless 
chicken thighs, cut into 
2-inch pieces
1 red onion, julienned2 red bell peppers, julienned
1 cup water, divided
1 cup dry white wine, plus 
2 tablespoons
1/2 cup diced prosciutto 
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
4 tomatoes on the vine, 
grated on a box grater1/2 teaspoon fresh 
thyme leaves
Leaves from 
1 rosemary sprig
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper 
1. In a large pot, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil over medium-high heat. When 
hot, add the 2 crushed garlic cloves and sauté for 1 to 2 minutes to lightly brown. 
Remove and set aside.
2. In the same pan over medium-high heat, add the chicken and brown on all sides, 
10 to 15 minutes. Transfer the chicken to a platter and set aside.
3. In the same pot, heat the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil over medium heat. 
When hot, add the onion and bell peppers and sauté for about 15 minutes, until 
soft and translucent. Add up to 1/4 cup water little by little if the onion starts 
to burn. 
4. Add the sliced garlic cloves and brown for 5 more minutes. Add 1 cup of the 
wine and cook for about 5 minutes to burn off the alcohol. Add the prosciutto, 
browned chicken, smoked paprika, and grated tomatoes and mix well.123 Meats and Seafood5. In a mortar, combine the browned crushed garlic, thyme, 
rosemary leaves, remaining 2 tablespoons wine, salt and 
pepper to taste, and just enough water to facilitate crushing 
the mixture into a paste with the pestle. Add the paste and 
the remaining 3/4    cup water to the pot and stir to combine. 
Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 20 to 
25 minutes to combine all of the fl  avors.
6. Serve hot. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for 3 days or freeze in a freezer bag or airtight 
container for up to 1 month.
DIFFERENT SPIN
For lamb chilindrón, substitute cubes of lamb for the chicken.
WINE PAIRING 
A pinot noir from the Somontano appellation in Aragón complements 
the zesty fl  avors of this dish.
124 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKScallops with Cured Ham
VIERAS CON JAMÓN
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
The yellow scallop shell is the iconic symbol of the pilgrimage to Santiago 
de Compostela and can be found on trees and cobblestone walls along 
the camino (route). This scallop dish is traditionally served in Galicia on a 
scallop shell with oven-toasted bread crumbs and bay scallops. This version 
can be served as a fi  rst course or an entrée. SERVES 4
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 medium yellow onions, 
fi  nely chopped1/4 cup chopped 
fresh parsley
1/4 teaspoon saff  ron threads
12 large sea scallops1/4 cup chopped Serrano 
ham or prosciutto
1 cup white wine
1. In a medium sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive oil over medium heat. When hot, 
add the onions and sauté until they become soft and translucent, about 15 min-
utes. Add the parsley and cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 minutes, until the 
onions begin to brown. If the pan becomes too dry, add a little water as needed. 
Mix in the saff  ron, which will add color to your sautéed onions.
2. Add the scallops and reduce the heat to low. Sauté, stirring occasionally, for 
2 minutes. Add the ham and cook, stirring to release its fat, for about 2 minutes. 
Pour in the wine and simmer until the sauce reduces, about 10 minutes.
3. Serve the scallops in a bowl with the sauce poured over the top. Store leftovers 
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
Serve this dish as a tapa or starter in a ceramic scallop shell or small vessel with toasted 
bread crumbs garnished with fresh parsley, and you will transform it into vieras a la gallega, 
or Galician scallops.
WINE PAIRING 
For this dish, pour an oak-aged godello from Valdeorras appellation or a sauvignon blanc 
from the Penedès DO.
125 Meats and Seafood
127
CHAPTER SEVEN4Desserts and Drinks
In Spain, a meal is not complete until you have dessert, whether a piece 
of seasonal fruit or one of Grandma’s secret recipes. Likewise, Span-
iards love their drinks and have put their own unique spin on several 
thirst-quenchers. This chapter is a compilation of my family’s favorite 
Spanish desserts, which may even suit your fancy as an afternoon treat or 
a breakfast, for those of you with a sweet tooth. There are also a few typ -
ical drinks that are part of the Spanish lifestyle. As the charming Spanish 
toast says, “Arriba, abajo, al centro, y adentro!” Up, down, to the center, 
and inside!
Rice Pudding  128
Chocolate Crème Anglaise with Raspberries  129
Spanish Cake Roll  130
Churros with Hot Chocolate  132
Cheese Flan  134
Santiago’s Torte  136
Spanish French Toast  137
Sangria  139
Lemon Summer Shandy  140
Gin and Tonic  141
Churros with Hot Chocolate (page 132)128 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKRice Pudding
ARROZ CON LECHE
Prep time: 5 minutes, plus 2 hours to chill  |  Cook time: 1 hour 30 minutes
Rice pudding is omnipresent in Spain’s dessert culture. It is origi-
nally from the region of Asturias in northern Spain. This dessert is 
labor-intensive, so prepare for a worthwhile arm workout! It is also deli-
cious sprinkled with 1/2    cup of sugar burnt with a kitchen blowtorch or 
under the broiler. SERVES 6
1 cup short-grain rice, such 
as bomba
1 quart whole milk1 cinnamon stick
Grated zest of 1 lemon
Grated zest of 1 orange11/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon
1. In a large nonstick pot, combine the rice, milk, cinnamon stick, lemon zest, and 
orange zest. Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the heat to a simmer and 
cook for 1 hour, stirring every 10 to 15 minutes to prevent sticking.
2. Add the sugar and cook, stirring constantly, for 30 minutes more.
3. Pour into a bowl and let cool to room temperature. When cool, sprinkle with the 
ground cinnamon. You can serve this at room temperature, but most prefer it 
chilled; refrigerate until chilled, 2 to 3 hours.
4. Serve it into individual bowls or glasses with a teaspoon. Store leftovers in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
SUBSTITUTION
If you can’t source Spanish short-grain bomba rice, use sushi rice.
WINE PAIRING 
A moscatel with citric and white fruit notes will pair nicely with the rice pudding.
129 Desserts and DrinksChocolate Crème Anglaise 
with Raspberries
NATILLAS DE CHOCOLATE CON FRAMBUESAS
Prep time: 5 minutes, plus 2 hours to chill  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
This is a take on the traditional vanilla and cinnamon natillas, a favorite 
in Spain. It’s especially good topped with fresh raspberries, which con-
trast divinely with the dark chocolate. SERVES 8
1 quart whole milk
8 ounces dark chocolate 
(63% cacao), 
coarsely chopped6 large egg yolks
11/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
Raspberries, for serving
1. In a large saucepan, combine the milk and chocolate. Bring just to a boil over 
medium-low heat.
2. Meanwhile, in a large bowl, beat the egg yolks with the sugar. Beat in the 
cornstarch.
3. When the milk just begins to boil, remove the pan from the heat. Slowly pour 
it into the egg yolk mixture little by little, whisking constantly, until fully com-
bined. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan.
4. Place the pan over medium heat and whisk constantly until the mixture thick-
ens, 5 minutes or less. Be careful not to let it boil.
5. Remove the pan from the heat and pour the crème anglaise into a bowl. Let cool 
to room temperature, then cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at 
least 2 hours to chill.
6. Serve in individual bowls topped with raspberries. Store leftovers in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Spain, natillas are traditionally served with Maria biscuits. If you can fi  nd them at your local 
grocery market, try dipping them into the chocolate crème!
WINE PAIRING 
Pedro Ximénez, an intensely sweet, dark, dessert sherry, will pair nicely with this dessert and 
so will a port.
130
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSpanish Cake Roll
BRAZO GITANO
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 8 minutes
There are several popular legends about the origins of this dessert. Some 
say it is over 100 years old and comes from Barcelona, and others say that 
it dates back to the Egyptians in the Middle Ages—who knows which one 
is true. What is certain is that it is an easy-to-make dessert with numerous 
filling possibilities.  SERVES 8
FOR THE CAKE ROLL
3 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flourFOR THE FILLING
3 cups strawberries
3 teaspoons granulated 
sugar, divided2 cups heavy cream
2 tablespoons 
powdered sugar
TO MAKE THE CAKE ROLL
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line a 14-by-11-inch or similar-size baking sheet with 
parchment paper.
2. In a bowl using an electric mixer, beat the egg whites on medium speed until 
they hold stiff peaks, about 5 minutes. (Alternatively, whisk by hand for 10 to  
12 minutes.) In a small bowl, beat the egg yolks, then very gently fold them into 
the egg whites.
3. Little by little, gently fold in the powdered sugar. Then gently fold in the flour a 
little at a time.
4. Pour the batter onto the prepared baking sheet and use a spatula to spread it out 
evenly and very thinly, about 1/4 inch deep.
5. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, until the cake is lightly golden.
6. While the cake is still warm, use the parchment paper to roll it up lengthwise. It’s 
important to roll the cake when it is warm so it doesn’t crack or break and so it 
cools in the proper shape. Let cool for about 20 minutes in its rolled form.
TO MAKE THE FILLING
7. Slice 1 cup of the strawberries and mix with 1 teaspoon of the granulated sugar. 
Set aside for the filling. Cut the remaining strawberries in half and mix with the 
remaining 2 teaspoons granulated sugar. Set aside for decorating the cake roll.131 Desserts and Drinks8. In a large bowl using a stick blender, combine the cream 
and powdered sugar and beat to a light and fl  uff  y foam. 
Use an up-and-down motion to incorporate as much air as 
possible. It will take less than 1 minute. Refrigerate until 
ready to use.
9. To fi  ll the cake, unroll the cake and carefully remove the 
parchment paper. Spread about three-quarters of the whipped 
cream across the cake and layer the sliced strawberries 
over the cream. Roll the cake back up. Spread the remain-
ing whipped cream over the cake roll and decorate with the 
halved strawberries.
10. Present the cake roll on a long platter. Store on a plate cov-
ered with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 2 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
Y ou may fi  nd it easier to fl  ip the cake facedown onto a clean kitchen 
towel when you remove it from the oven and carefully remove the 
parchment paper while it is still hot. Y ou can then carefully roll it up with 
the kitchen towel preventing the cake from sticking and giving the cake 
the form needed to later unroll it when it cools to fi  ll with the whipped 
cream and strawberries.
WINE PAIRING 
This dessert will pair nicely with a semi dry rosé or cava like Anna de 
Codorníu Brut Rosé.
132
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKChurros with  
Hot Chocolate
CHURROS CON CHOCOLATE
Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 10 minutes
Churros are so embedded in Spanish food culture that 21st century chefs 
are coming up with their own sophisticated twists and including them on 
restaurant dessert menus. You can enjoy this Spanish delight for break-
fast, a morning or afternoon snack, or even at the very end of a long night. 
The hot chocolate is used mostly for dipping the churros.  SERVES 4
FOR THE CHURROS
1 cup water
1/2 cup sugar, plus  
21/2 tablespoons
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 cup all-purpose flourNeutral oil, for deep-frying
FOR THE HOT CHOCOLATE
21/4 cups whole milk, divided
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1 cinnamon stick
1/2 vanilla bean, split 
lengthwise2 cups coarsely chopped 
dark chocolate 
(63% cacao)
Pinch sea salt
Sugar
TO MAKE THE CHURROS
1. Preheat the oven to 200°F to keep the churros warm. Line a plate with 
paper towels.
2. In a small saucepan, combine the water, 21/2 tablespoons of the sugar, the salt, 
and the vegetable oil. Bring to a boil over medium heat, then remove from the 
heat. Stir in the flour, mixing well to form a ball of dough.
3. Pour 3 inches of neutral oil into a deep skillet (no wider than 8 to 10 inches) and 
heat over medium-high heat to 375°F. 
4. Transfer the dough to a pastry bag fitted with a medium star tip (see Tip). Pipe 
5- to 6-inch lengths of the dough into the oil, using kitchen scissors to cut the 
dough. Fry for 2 to 4 minutes, until golden. Using a skimmer or slotted spoon, 
transfer the churros to the paper towel–lined plate to drain.
5. Place the remaining 1/2 cup sugar on a plate. Roll the churros in the sugar. 
Place them on a baking sheet to keep warm in the oven until the hot chocolate 
is ready.133 Desserts and DrinksTO MAKE THE HOT CHOCOLATE
6. In a small bowl, stir 1/4 cup of the milk into the cornstarch 
and mix well so there are no lumps. Set aside.
7. In a medium saucepan, combine the remaining 2 cups milk 
and the cinnamon stick. Scrape the vanilla seeds into the 
milk and add the pod. Heat just to a boil over medium-high 
heat. Remove the pan from the heat, cover, and let sit for  
10 minutes for the flavors to infuse.
8. Discard the vanilla pod and cinnamon stick. Add the choc-
olate and salt to the hot milk and stir until the chocolate 
melts and the mixture is well combined. 
9. Restir the cornstarch mixture and add it to the chocolate 
mixture, whisking constantly until it dissolves. Return the 
pan to medium heat and stir for about 5 minutes, until it 
thickens. Taste and add sugar to taste, mixing it well.
10. Pour the hot chocolate into coffee cups and serve on a des-
sert plate with the churros alongside. Dip the churros into 
the thick hot chocolate to fully enjoy the treat! Store leftover 
churros in an airtight container at room temperature for up 
to 2 days. Store leftover hot chocolate in an airtight con-
tainer in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
TECHNIQUE TIP
If you don’t have a pastry bag, use a freezer bag instead. Fill it with 
churro dough and cut a small corner of the bag. Don’t cut the hole too 
big, though, because you want the churro thin.134
 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKCheese Flan
FLAN DE QUESO
Prep time: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to chill  |  Cook time: 35 minutes
Top this sublime dessert with sliced strawberries and raspberries coated 
with the remaining half of the caramel sauce.  SERVES 8
FOR THE CARAMEL SAUCE 
3/4 cup sugar
3 drops fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup room- 
temperature water
1/2 cup boiling waterFOR THE FLAN
4 large eggs
1/4 cup sugar
16 ounces cream cheese, at 
room temperature
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
TO MAKE THE CARAMEL SAUCE
2. Have an 8-inch nonstick round cake pan (or similar) at the ready.
3. In a nonstick skillet, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and room-temperature 
water and set over medium heat. When the sugar begins to turn amber, stir it 
with a wooden spoon. When it turns golden and starts to bubble, remove the 
pan from the heat and add the boiling water while stirring. Be careful not to burn 
the sugar and be very careful not to burn yourself as the mixture will continue to 
bubble even when removed from the burner. Pour half of the caramel into a cake 
pan. Tilt the pan every which way to evenly coat the bottom with caramel. 
TO MAKE THE FLAN
4. In a large bowl, beat the eggs. Beat in the sugar and cream cheese until light 
and creamy.
5. Pour the flan mixture into the pan.
6. Set the pan in a larger baking pan. Carefully pour water into the larger pan to 
come halfway up the sides of the cake pan. 
7. Transfer the baking pan to the oven and bake for 30 minutes.
8. Remove the baking pan from the oven and carefully remove the cake pan from 
the water. Let the flan cool for about 15 minutes, then refrigerate for 1 hour 
to chill.135 Desserts and Drinks9. Carefully run a knife around the inside edges of the cake 
pan. Cover the pan with a plate and fl  ip the fl  an onto the 
plate. Pour any caramel sauce remaining in the cake pan 
over the top of the fl  an before serving.
10. Cut it into wedges and serve on plates. Cover leftovers with 
plastic wrap and refrigerate for up to 5 days.
TECHNIQUE TIP
Heat the bottom of the cake pan over very low heat for 40 to 60 sec-
onds before you unmold the fl  an. The caramel will melt and it will be 
easier to unmold.
REGIONAL VARIATION
Most regions of Spain make their fl  an without cheese. Some recipes 
call for condensed milk and include a bit of rum. These are called a 
Drunk Flan.
WINE PAIRING 
This dessert will pair well with a white dessert wines of the muscatel 
and muscat varietals.
136 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSantiago’s Torte
TARTA DE SANTIAGO
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
This delicious and easy cake is traditional to the Santiago pilgrimage. For 
an authentic presentation, cut a Cross of Saint James out of paper and 
place it in the middle of the cake before you dust it with powdered sugar. 
Brandy, Cognac, aged rum, or any sweet liqueur such as Cointreau can 
be substituted for the herb orujo, which is a pomace brandy infused with 
herbs. SERVES 10
11/4 cups granulated sugar
13/4 cups blanched 
almond fl  our
5 large eggsGrated zest of 1 orange
Grated zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon1/4 cup herb orujo or liqueur
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line the bottom of an 11- or 12-inch springform pan 
with a round of parchment paper cut to fi  t.
2. In a large bowl, combine the sugar and almond fl  our. Add the eggs one at a 
time, beating vigorously until smooth after each addition. Mix in the orange and 
lemon zests, cinnamon, and orujo. Pour the batter into the pan.
3. Bake for about 30 minutes, or until the cake feels fi  rm to the touch and a tooth-
pick inserted into the center comes out clean. Remove from the oven and let 
cool in the pan on a wire rack for 15 minutes.
4. Remove the cake from the pan and place it on a large plate. Dust the top of the 
cake with the powdered sugar.
REGIONAL VARIATION
In Navarra, this cake is generally covered with apricot jam.
WINE PAIRING 
This dessert pairs well with a white dessert wine of the muscatel or muscat varietals like 
Ochoa from Navarra.
137 Desserts and DrinksSpanish French Toast
TORRIJAS
Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes
This dessert is enjoyed throughout Spain year-round but especially 
during Holy Week. It originated in the 15th century when it was served 
as a tapa in bars in Madrid with wine. It is perfect to make for dessert, 
brunch, or an afternoon treat topped with fresh berries and homemade 
honey syrup (see Tip). You can use orange or lemon zest for this  
recipe.  SERVES 4
1 lemon or orange
1 cup whole milk
1 cup heavy cream
1 cinnamon stick
1 vanilla bean, split 
lengthwise1/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
or vegetable oil12 slices (2 inches thick) 
day-old French bread,  
cut on the diagonal 
Maple syrup, for serving
1. Using a vegetable peeler, peel off 2 wide strips of lemon zest from the lemon;  
be careful to not include any white pith.
2. In a medium saucepan, combine the milk, cream, cinnamon stick, and lemon 
zest. Scrape the vanilla seeds into the pan and add the pod. Bring just to a boil 
over medium-high heat. Remove from the heat and stir in the sugar until it  
dissolves. Cover and set aside to cool for 15 minutes.
3. In a shallow bowl, beat together the eggs.
4. Transfer the cooled milk mixture to a large bowl and remove the cinnamon stick, 
vanilla bean, and lemon zests.
5. Line a plate with paper towels. In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium-high 
heat. When hot, working in batches, dip the bread slices in the milk mixture and 
then into the egg. 
CONTINUED138 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKSpanish French Toast CONTINUED
6. Place the bread in the pan and fry about 1 minute, until golden. Flip and fry the 
other side, about 1 minute. Place on the paper towels to drain.
7. Serve with maple syrup.
MAKE IT MORE TRADITIONAL
Serve the torrijas  with honey syrup: In a saucepan, heat 2 tablespoons honey, 1 tablespoon 
brandy, and 1/2 cup sugar and stir until golden. Stir in 3/4 cup water and heat for 10 minutes.
WINE PAIRING 
Serve torrijas for brunch with mimosas or rosé champagne. Pedro Ximénez, an intensely 
sweet, dark dessert sherry, will also pair nicely beautifully with it.
139 Desserts and DrinksSangria
Prep time: 15 minutes, plus 2 hours to macerate
Sangria is a refreshing low-alcohol aperitif usually consumed during 
popular summer festivities and gatherings throughout Spain. You can 
prepare it by mixing any type of wine with fruit, liqueur, and soda, but 
make sure to give the fruit time to macerate to obtain the fullest flavor 
and sweetness.  SERVES 4
1 (750 ml) bottle red wine
21/4 cups orange or 
lemon soda
3 cups blackberries 
(optional)
1 cup strawberries, 
quartered
1 apple, dicedGrated zest and juice of 
2 oranges
Grated zest and juice 
of 1 lemon
Grated zest and juice 
of 1 lime
1/4 cup sugar, or to taste
1 cinnamon stick1 vanilla bean
Dash nutmeg
3 whole cloves (optional)
1/2 cup rum, brandy, 
or Cognac
FOR SERVING
Ice
4 mint sprigs, for garnish
1. In a large pitcher, combine the wine, soda, fruit, spices, and brandy or Cognac 
and mix. Let the fruit macerate for 2 to 3 hours, or even overnight in the 
refrigerator.
2. To serve, fill large wineglasses with ice and pour the sangria over it. Garnish 
each glass with a sprig of fresh mint.
DIFFERENT SPIN
Rosé or white sangrias are also very refreshing during the summertime. For white sangria, use 
wine that has not been aged in oak and gin or vodka in place of the rum or brandy.140 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOKLemon Summer Shandy
CLARA DE LIMÓN
Prep time: 5 minutes
A lemon shandy is sangria’s little sister and is as popular and refreshing—
but a lot quicker and easier to prepare. All you need is your favorite type 
of beer, lemon soda or lemonade, and plenty of ice. Those with a sweet 
tooth should go with a sweeter soda or lemonade.  MAKES 1 SHANDY
Ice
1 part beer1 part lemon soda or 
lemonadeGrated lemon zest
Fill a large wineglass or beer goblet to the top with ice. Pour in the beer followed by 
the soda. Stir. Top it off with lemon zest and enjoy!
DIFFERENT SPIN
For a less-sweet version, make it with lemon-scented sparkling water or lemon Italian soda.141 Desserts and DrinksGin and Tonic
Prep time: 5 minutes
Spaniards take great pride in their reimagining of the British G&T, and 
gin and tonic mixology has been taken to a higher level, becoming a 
social ritual among Spanish gin lovers. They have accented the complex 
flavors and aromas of the gin and the tonic with a host of complemen-
tary garnishes and serve the drink impeccably over ice in a large fish 
bowl-style wineglass. So do as the Spaniards do and offer your guests a 
G&T after dinner with a bowl of gummy bears!  MAKES 1 COCKTAIL
Ice
2 parts gin
3 parts tonicGARNISH OPTIONS
Citrus fruit: lemon twist, 
lime twist, grapefruit twist, 
orange twist
Spices: coriander, 
cardamom, juniper berries, 
black peppercorns, pink 
peppercorns, star aniseFresh herbs: mint, 
cilantro, basil, rosemary, 
thyme, parsley
Roots: grated fresh ginger
Other: cucumber, rose 
petals, edible flowers
1. Decide upon and prepare the garnishes that you will use.
2. Fill a large, open wineglass with ice.
3. Pour the gin over the ice followed by the tonic water. Stir with a cocktail spoon, 
add your preferred garnishes, and enjoy!
G&T TIPS
Decide which type of gin you prefer: botanical and herbaceous or dry. Use premium tonic 
water. It will make a difference. Never garnish it with a lemon or lime wedge. Always use a large 
twist of citrus zest with no white pith on it. Although there are many charts that tell you what 
garnish pairs best with what gin, it is really a matter of taste. I love my G&T with a dry gin, such 
as Martin Miller, garnished with juniper berries, cardamom, pink peppercorns, edible flowers, 
and a nice size lemon twist. Always pour it in a large and open glass similar to a wineglass.
G&T SERVING
A fun idea for a gathering is to set up a G&T bar with small vases full of fresh herbs, test tubes 
with an array of spices, and a small plate with the prepared citrus twists. Include a variety of 
types of gin and tonic waters.142
Measurement Conversions
U.S. StandardU.S. Standard  
(ounces)Metric   
(approximate)
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(LIQUID)2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
1/4 cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
1/2 cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1 1/2 cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(DRY)1/8 teaspoon                0.5 mL
1/4 teaspoon                1 mL
1/2 teaspoon                2 mL
3/4 teaspoon                4 mL
1 teaspoon                5 mL
1 tablespoon                15 mL
1/4 cup                59 mL
⅓ cup                79 mL
1/2 cup                118 mL
⅔ cup                156 mL
3/4 cup                177 mL
1 cup                235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint                475 mL
3 cups                700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart                1 L
1/2 gallon                2 L
1 gallon                4 L
WEIGHT  
EQUIVALENTS1/2 ounce                15 g
1 ounce                30 g
2 ounces                60 g
4 ounces                115 g
8 ounces                225 g
12 ounces                340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound                455 g
Fahrenheit (F)Celsius (C) 
(approximate)
OVEN  
TEMPERATURES250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°C143
Ingredient and Equipment 
Resources
Ingredients
Bomba rice: La Tienda (Tienda.com) and Gourmet Food Store  
(GourmetFoodStore.com)
Pimentón de la Vera: Hot and sweet smoked paprika. La Tienda (Tienda.com)
Piparras peppers: Semisweet Basque peppers. La Tienda (Tienda.com)
Spanish albacore tuna: Bonito del norte. La Tienda (Tienda.com) and 
iGourmet.com
Spanish anchovy fillets: Nardin Anchovy Fillets or Anxoves de l’Escala. La 
Tienda (Tienda.com)
Spanish chorizo: Palacios Extra Quality Sweet or Extra Quality Spicy Chorizo 
(Palacios-en.com/p/products/chorizo)
Spanish saffron: Spice Jungle (SpiceJungle.com) and La Tienda (Tienda.com)
Spanish squid ink: El Sison Squid Ink/4 Pack. Gourmet Food Store  
(GourmetFoodStore.com) and Artisanal Foods (ArtisanalFoods.com)
Equipment
Frittata/tortilla pan (hinged): La Tienda (Tienda.com), Macy’s (Macys.com), 
and Wayfair (Wayfair.com)
Large mortar: Wayfair (Wayfiar.com) and Crate and Barrel (CrateandBarrel.com)
Paella pan: La Tienda (Tienda.com) and Williams Sonoma 
(Williams-Sonoma.com)
Terra cotta cazuela: La Tienda (Tienda.com)144
Index 
A
Aioli, 40
Ajoblanco, 62–63
Albariño wine, 5
Albóndigas en Salsa de la 
Abuela, 104–105
Alioli, 40
Almejas a la Marinera, 106
Alubias de Tolosa con Sus 
Sacramentos, 77–78
Anchoas españoles (Spanish 
anchovies), 2
Andalucía, 8
Andalucían Fried Marinated 
Mahimahi, 107
Andalucían Gazpacho, 64
Appetizers
Bay Scallop Pie, 20–21
Cod Brandade with 
Toast, 32–33
Crab Pintxo with 
Mayonnaise, 17
Cured Ham Croquettes, 
18–19
Fair-Style Squid with 
Potatoes, 14
Fierce Potatoes, 28–29
Fried Calamari, 34
Garlic Shrimp, 15
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and 
Olive Skewers), 24–25
Marinated Shellfish Salad, 35
Moorish Pork Loin 
Skewers, 30–31
Spanish Potato and Onion 
Frittata, 36–37
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Tomato Toast, 16
Aragón, 8
Arroz a Banda, 84–85Arroz con Leche, 128
Arroz de la Huerta, 90–91
Arroz Marinero, 92–93
Arroz Meloso de 
Gambas, 88–89
Arroz Negro, 86–87
Artichokes
Vegetable Garden  
Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Asadillo de Pimientos 
Andaluz, 42–43
Asparagus
Grilled Asparagus, 46
Mixed Salad, 45
Vegetable Garden  
Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Asturias, 8
B
Bacalao con Pasas y 
Piñones, 108–109
Bacon. See also  Pancetta
Galician Broth, 65
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Baker’s Potatoes, 52–53
Basque Country, 9
Bay Scallop Pie, 20–21
Beans. See also  Green beans
Fava Beans with Ham, 50
Galician Broth, 65
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Beef
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Meatballs in Grandma’s 
Sauce, 104–105
Bell peppers
Andalucían Gazpacho, 64Baker’s Potatoes, 52–53
Bay Scallop Pie, 20–21
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper 
Sauce, 122–123
“Honeyed” Shrimp  
Rice, 88–89
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Roasted Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía, 42–43
Shrimp and Clam 
Noodles, 98–99
Spanish Ratatouille, 58
Spicy Mojo Sauce, 51
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Wild Mushroom 
Noodles, 96–97
Berries
Chocolate Crème Anglaise 
with Raspberries, 129
Sangria, 139
Spanish Cake Roll, 130–131
Besugo a la Espalda, 110–111
Bienmesabe, 107
Bobal wine, 5
Bonito del norte, 3. See 
also  Tuna
Branzino
Sea Bass on Its Back, 110–111
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Brazo Gitano, 130–131
Bread
Cod Brandade with 
Toast, 32–33
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
Crab Pintxo with 
Mayonnaise, 17
Romesco Sauce, 54–55145Spanish French Toast, 
137–138
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Tomato Toast, 16
White Garlic Gazpacho, 62–63
Broccoli
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
C
Cabbage
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Calamares á Feira con 
Cachelos, 14
Calamares Encebollados, 
112–113
Calamares en Su Tinta, 114
Calçots, 41
Caldo Gallego, 65
Cantabria, 8
Carrots
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Potato Leek Soup, 66
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Castilla-La Mancha, 9
Castilla y León, 9
Catalonia, 9
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Cheese
Cheese Flan, 134–135
Tomato and Chorizo 
Penne, 100–101
Chicken
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper 
Sauce, 122–123
Garlic Chicken, 119
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70Chickpeas
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Chocolate
Chocolate Crème Anglaise 
with Raspberries, 129
Churros with Hot 
Chocolate, 132–133
Chorizo, 3
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Tomato and Chorizo 
Penne, 100–101
Chuletillas de Cordero al 
Sarmiento, 115
Churros con Chocolate, 
132–133
Churros with Hot Chocolate, 
132–133
Clams
Halibut in Green Sauce 
with Clams, 120
Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Sailor-Style Clams, 106
Shrimp and Clam 
Noodles, 98–99
Clara de Limón, 140
Clay Pot Pork Noodles, 94–95
Cocido Madrileño, 75–76
Cocidos , 61. See also  Stews
Cod
Cod Brandade with 
Toast, 32–33
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121Cogollos de Tudela, 44
Cordero Asado, 116–117
Crab
Crab Pintxo with 
Mayonnaise, 17
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Cream cheese
Cheese Flan, 134–135
Croquetas de Jamón, 18–19
Cucumbers
Andalucían Gazpacho, 64
Culinary regions, 8–10
Cured Ham Croquettes, 18–19
D
Desserts
Cheese Flan, 134–135
Chocolate Crème Anglaise 
with Raspberries, 129
Churros with Hot 
Chocolate, 132–133
Rice Pudding, 128
Santiago’s Torte, 136
Spanish Cake Roll, 130–131
Spanish French Toast, 
137–138
Drinks
Churros with Hot 
Chocolate, 132–133
Gin and Tonic, 141
Lemon Summer Shandy, 140
Sangria, 139
Spanish toast, 127
E
Edamame
Fava Beans with Ham, 50
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Eggs
Aioli, 40
Cheese Flan, 134–135
Chocolate Crème Anglaise 
with Raspberries, 129
Index146Cured Ham Croquettes, 
18–19
Mixed Salad, 45
Santiago’s Torte, 136
Spanish Cake Roll, 130–131
Spanish French Toast, 
137–138
Spanish Potato and Onion 
Frittata, 36–37
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Empanada de Zamburiñas, 
20–21
Ensalada Mixta, 45
Ensaladilla Rusa, 22–23
Equipment, 6–7
Espárragos Trigueros a 
la Plancha, 46
Espinacas con Pasas 
y Piñones, 47
Extremadura, 9
F
Fair-Style Squid with 
Potatoes, 14
Fava Beans with Ham, 50
Fideos a la Cazuela, 94–95
Fideos con Gambas y 
Almejas, 98–99
Fideua de Setas, 96–97
Fierce Potatoes, 28–29
Fish
Andalucían Fried Marinated 
Mahimahi, 107
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Cod Brandade with 
Toast, 32–33
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
Halibut in Green Sauce 
with Clams, 120
Mixed Salad, 45
Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121Salt-Roasted Sea Bass, 118
Sea Bass on Its Back, 110–111
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Flan de Queso, 134–135
Fried Calamari, 34
G
Galicia, 9
Galician Broth, 65
Gambas al Ajillo, 15
Garlic Chicken, 119
Garlic Shrimp, 15
Garnacha wine, 4
Gazpacho Andaluz, 64
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and 
Olive Skewers), 24–25
Gildas de Mejillón, 24–25
Gin and Tonic, 141
Godello wine, 5
Grapes
White Garlic Gazpacho, 62–63
Green beans
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Vegetable Garden  
Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Grilled Asparagus, 46
Grilled Calçots, 41
H
Habitas con Jamón, 50
Halibut
Halibut in Green Sauce 
with Clams, 120
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Ham. See also  Prosciutto
Cured Ham Croquettes, 
18–19
Fava Beans with Ham, 50
Galician Broth, 65Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Scallops with Cured  
Ham, 124
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice, 88–89
I
Ingredient staples, 1–3
L
Lamb
Roasted Leg of Lamb, 
116–117
Vine Shoot–Grilled 
Lamb Chops, 115
Leeks
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice, 88–89
Potato Leek Soup, 66
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Wild Mushroom 
Noodles, 96–97
Lemon Summer Shandy, 140
Lettuce
Crab Pintxo with 
Mayonnaise, 17
Little Gems and Toasted 
Garlic Salad, 44
Mixed Salad, 45
Little Gems and Toasted 
Garlic Salad, 44
Lobster
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Lubina a la Sal, 118
M
Macarones con Tomate y 
Chorizo, 100–101
Madrid, 10Eggs ( continued  )
Index147Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Mahimahi
Andalucían Fried Marinated 
Mahimahi, 107
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Marinated Shellfish Salad, 35
Marmitako de Atún, 67–68
Mashed Potatoes with 
Paprika, 56–57
Meals, 7–8
Meatballs in Grandma’s 
Sauce, 104–105
Mencia wine, 4
Menestra de Verduras, 48–49
Merluza en Salsa Verde 
con Almejas, 120
Migas Manchegas, 26–27
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Mixed Salad, 45
Mojo Picón, 51
Monastrell wine, 4
Moorish Pork Loin 
Skewers, 30–31
Murcia, 10
Mushrooms
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Wild Mushroom 
Noodles, 96–97
Mussels
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and 
Olive Skewers), 24–25
Mixed Paella, 82–83
N
Natillas de Chocolate con 
Frambuesas, 129
Navarra, 8
Noodles
Clay Pot Pork Noodles, 94–95
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Shrimp and Clam 
Noodles, 98–99Tomato and Chorizo 
Penne, 100–101
Wild Mushroom 
Noodles, 96–97
Nuts
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
Romesco Sauce, 54–55
Spinach with Raisins 
and Pine Nuts, 47
White Garlic Gazpacho, 62–63
O
Olives
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and 
Olive Skewers), 24–25
Mixed Salad, 45
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Onions
Grilled Calçots, 41
Mixed Salad, 45
Spanish Potato and Onion 
Frittata, 36–37
Squid in Onion Sauce, 
112–113
P
Paella Mixta, 82–83
Palomino wine, 6
Pan Amb Tomàquet, 16
Pancetta
Clay Pot Pork Noodles, 94–95
Mashed Potatoes with 
Paprika, 56–57
Toasted Bread  
Crumbs from La 
Mancha, 26–27
Pantry staples, 1–3
Paprika, 2, 3
Pasta. See  Noodles
Patatas Bravas, 28–29
Patatas con Pollo, 69–70
Patatas Panaderas, 52–53
Patatas Revolconas, 56–57Peas
Halibut in Green Sauce 
with Clams, 120
Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Pepperoncini
Gildas (Mussel, Pepper, and 
Olive Skewers), 24–25
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Peppers. See  specific
Pimentón de la Vera, 3
Pincho Moruno, 30–31
Pintxo de Chatka con 
Mayonesa, 17
Pintxos, 13. See also  Appetizers
Piparras peppers, 3
Pisto Manchego, 58
Pollo al Ajillo, 119
Pollo al Chilindrón, 122–123
Pork. See also  Bacon; Chorizo; 
Ham; Pancetta; Prosciutto
Clay Pot Pork Noodles, 94–95
Galician Broth, 65
Meatballs in Grandma’s 
Sauce, 104–105
Moorish Pork Loin 
Skewers, 30–31
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Porrusalda, 66
Potaje de Garbanzos, Calabaza, 
y Judías Verdes, 71–72
Potatoes
Baker’s Potatoes, 52–53
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Fair-Style Squid with 
Potatoes, 14
Index148Fierce Potatoes, 28–29
Galician Broth, 65
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Mashed Potatoes with 
Paprika, 56–57
Mixed Salad, 45
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Potato Leek Soup, 66
Roasted Leg of Lamb, 
116–117
Spanish Potato and Onion 
Frittata, 36–37
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Prosciutto
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper 
Sauce, 122–123
Cured Ham Croquettes, 
18–19
Fava Beans with Ham, 50
Scallops with Cured Ham, 124
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
R
Rabas de Calamar, 34
Raisins
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
Spinach with Raisins 
and Pine Nuts, 47
Rice
bomba, 3
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice, 88–89
Mixed Paella, 82–83
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Rice Pudding, 128
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Seafood Rice, 84–85
short-grain, 2
Squid in Ink Sauce, 114
Squid Ink Black Rice, 86–87Squid in Onion Sauce, 
112–113
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Rioja, 8
Roasted Leg of Lamb, 116–117
Roasted Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía, 42–43
Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121
Rodaballo al Txakoli, 121
Romesco Sauce, 54–55
S
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Sailor-Style Clams, 106
Salads
Little Gems and Toasted 
Garlic Salad, 44
Marinated Shellfish Salad, 35
Mixed Salad, 45
Roasted Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía, 42–43
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Salpicón de Mariscos, 35
Salsa Romesco, 54–55
Salt-Roasted Sea Bass, 118
Sangria, 139
Santiago’s Torte, 136
Sauces
Aioli, 40
Romesco Sauce, 54–55
Spanish Tomato Sauce, 59
Spicy Mojo Sauce, 51
Scallops
Bay Scallop Pie, 20–21
Scallops with Cured Ham, 124
Sea bass
Salt-Roasted Sea Bass, 118
Sea Bass on Its Back, 110–111
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Seafood Rice, 84–85
Shrimp
Garlic Shrimp, 15
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice, 88–89
Marinated Shellfish Salad, 35
Mixed Paella, 82–83Rock Cod with Txakoli, 121
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Shrimp and Clam 
Noodles, 98–99
Soups. See also  Stews
Andalucían Gazpacho, 64
Galician Broth, 65
Potato Leek Soup, 66
White Garlic Gazpacho, 62–63
Spanish Cake Roll, 130–131
Spanish French Toast, 137–138
Spanish Potato and Onion 
Frittata, 36–37
Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Spanish Ratatouille, 58
Spanish Tomato Sauce, 59
Spicy Mojo Sauce, 51
Spinach with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 47
Squash. See also  Zucchini
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Squid
Fair-Style Squid with 
Potatoes, 14
Fried Calamari, 34
ink, 3
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Squid in Ink Sauce, 114
Squid Ink Black Rice, 86–87
Squid in Onion Sauce, 
112–113
Stews
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Suquet de Pescado, 73–74Potatoes (continued  )
Index149T
Tapas, 13. See also  Appetizers
Tarta de Santiago, 136
Tempranillo wine, 4
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Tolosa-Style Beans with 
Trimmings, 77–78
Tomate Frito, 59
Tomatoes
Andalucían Gazpacho, 64
Catalonian Fish Stew, 73–74
Chicken in Tomato-Pepper 
Sauce, 122–123
Chickpea, Butternut 
Squash, and Green 
Bean Stew, 71–72
Clay Pot Pork Noodles, 94–95
Cod with Raisins and 
Pine Nuts, 108–109
“Honeyed” Shrimp Rice, 88–89
Madrid-Style Chickpea 
Stew, 75–76
Marinated Shellfish Salad, 35
Mixed Paella, 82–83Mixed Salad, 45
Potato Chicken Stew, 69–70
Roasted Pepper Salad from 
Andalucía, 42–43
Romesco Sauce, 54–55
Sailor’s Rice, 92–93
Shrimp and Clam 
Noodles, 98–99
Spanish Ratatouille, 58
Spanish Tomato Sauce, 59
Spicy Mojo Sauce, 51
Squid Ink Black Rice, 86–87
Toasted Bread Crumbs from 
La Mancha, 26–27
Tomato and Chorizo 
Penne, 100–101
Tomato Toast, 16
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Torrijas, 137–138
Tortilla Española, 36–37
Tostadas con Brandada 
de Bacalao, 32–33
Tuna
Mixed Salad, 45Spanish Potato Salad, 22–23
Tuna Pot, 67–68
Turnip greens
Galician Broth, 65
V
Valencia, 10
Vegetable Garden Rice, 90–91
Vegetable Mélange, 48–49
Verdejo wine, 5
Vieras con Jamón, 124
Vine Shoot–Grilled Lamb 
Chops, 115
Viura wine, 5
W
White Garlic Gazpacho, 62–63
Wild Mushroom Noodles, 96–97
Wines, 4–6
Z
Zucchini
Spanish Ratatouille, 58
IndexAcknowledgments
To my husband, Luis, with whom I have eaten my way throughout Spain. We have 
enjoyed the best food, from the quaintest little restaurants in tiny villages to the 
Michelin-starred. Our love for food is our secret ingredient, which has bound us 
together forever.
To our dear friend Mariano, Uncle Mari to our kids, who has been our inseparable 
gastronomic companion and with whom we have explored every corner in every 
region of Spain. I hope this book inspires you to write the “Marianin Guide.”
To my beloved and eternal supporters Regi, Edu, and Adri, who I am proud to 
say have inherited our passion for food and at a very young age could distinguish 
between olive oil made with Arbequina and Picudo olives! You are a clear and grati-
fying example of our effort to expose and educate you on world food cultures.
To my in-laws Cristina and Ramon, thank you for your unconditional, constant 
support throughout the years, and Ramon . . . for being my Spanish cuisine mentor.
To Rachid, my dear friend and business partner at Norema Salinas catering in 
Madrid! For taking the reins of the business, winning our clientele, and making it 
possible for me to be here with my family. The inspiration of your delicious and 
elegantly balanced cuisine has been invaluable.
To my dear friend Lori Tenny, the reason this book came to life. For your  
support, trust, and belief in me. I could not have done this without you.
To my dearest friend Sol and her mom, Maru, thank you for your invaluable 
pastry-making tips and all of the absolutely delicious “rosquillas” you have made for 
me throughout the years!About the Author
Norema Salinas is an international food maven specializing 
in Spanish food, culture, and entertainment. She has lived in 
Madrid for a great portion of her life and traveled extensively 
throughout Spain with her husband and three children, who 
are Spanish. She was a pioneer of modern Spanish catering in 
Spain in the 1990s with her company Norema Salinas Cater -
ing, which she now codirects with her business partner while 
she lives in the San Francisco Bay Area. She has been back in 
California since the summer of 2015, when she and her business partner brought 
Scirocco Wind pop-ups (Spanish-Moroccan cuisine theme) to the Bay Area for a 
few months. She is presently working in catering and event production for Betty 
Zlatchin Catering in San Francisco, where she is successfully implementing her 
expertise and international food knowledge.
Easy4SPANISH
COOKBOOK4Recipes to Bring Home 
the Flavors of Spain
NOREMA SALINAS
Bring the ﬂ  avors of Spain 
home with delicious dishes 
that anyone can make
You don’t have to live in Spain to recreate its savory delicacies in your very own 
kitchen. Easy Spanish Cookbook helps chefs of all skill levels serve up a 
ﬂ  avorful variety of classic Spanish dishes.
Covering everything from tapas, pintxos, and other small plates to rice, meat, 
and seafood entrees, this beginner-friendly cookbook sets you up for long-term 
culinary success. Learn how to stock a kitchen perfect for preparing Spanish 
food—no shopping at specialty grocers required. Tips help you integrate more 
traditional ingredients and create regional variations. 
60 SPANISH FAVORITES
Delight friends and family with iconic 
Spanish delicacies, including Mixed Paella, 
Bay Scallop Pie, and Catalonian Fish Stew.
REGIONAL OVERVIEWS 
Explore cuisines from all Spain’s regions, 
from Catalonia to Galicia.
RECIPES INCLUDE 
Enjoy recipes that deliver authentic 
ﬂ  avors without relying on hard-to-ﬁ  nd 
specialty ingredients.RECIPES INCLUDE4Cured Ham Croquettes
Spanish Ratatouille
White Garlic Gazpacho
Squid Ink Black Rice
Roasted Leg of Lamb
Salt-Roasted Sea BassSalinas                 EASY SPANISH COOKBOOK
U.S. $15.99 CAN $20.99 R0NOREMA SALINAS is an international food maven specializing in Spanish food, 
culture, and entertainment. She started a pioneering  Spanish catering company, 
Norema Salinas Catering. Although she now lives in the San Francisco Bay Area, 
she spent a great portion of her life in Madrid and traveled extensively throughout 
Spain with her husband and three children. 