xAcknowledgments
Editorial Staff
Editors-in-Chief Robert A. Rizza, M.D.
Vay Liang W. Go., M.D.M. Molly McMahon, M.D.Gail G. Harrison, Ph.D., R.D.
Associate Editors Jennifer K. Nelson, R.D.
Kristine A. Kuhnert, R.D.
Assistant Editor Sydne J. Newberry, Ph.D.Editorial Director LeAnn M. SteeArt Directors Karen E. Barrie
Kathryn K. Shepel
Medical Illustrators John V. Hagen
Michael A. King
Editorial Assistant Sharon L. WadleighProduction Consultant Ronald R. WardPhotography Tony Kubat
The vision for this book belongs to David H. Murdock, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of Dole Food Company, Inc.  Mr. Murdock brought his vision and a request for assistance inmaking it a reality to two of the authors:  Robert A. Rizza, M.D., of Mayo Clinic, and Gail G.Harrison, Ph.D., R.D., University of California Los Angeles School of Public Health.  They eachsaw the potential value in this vision and committed themselves to recruit scientific colleaguesand technical expertise to bring it to fruition.
The authors all contributed to various stages of the evolution of this volume.  Specificcontributions are worthy of special mention.  Jennifer K. Nelson, R.D., M. Molly McMahon,
M.D., and Robert A. Rizza, M.D., developed the material in Chapters 1 through 5.  KristineA. Kuhnert, R.D., contributed to Chapters 1 through 5 and served as project manager.  JudithM. Ashley, Ph.D., R.D., provided the original draft for all of Part II (except the chapters on fruitsand vegetables).  Sydne J. Newberry, Ph.D., contributed to Chapters 1 and 2 and was the editorand major writer for the fruits and vegetables chapters.  Dr. Rizza oversaw the entire process andserved as one of the Editors-in-Chief.  Other Editors-in-Chief were Vay Liang W. Go., M.D.,M. Molly McMahon, M.D., and Gail G. Harrison, Ph.D., R.D.
Several professional staff of Dole Food Company, Inc., contributed substantially to this
work.  In particular, Lorelei DiSogra, Ed.D., R.D., contributed feedback and advice through-out the process of development; Roberta Wieman provided administrative and moral supportat every step of the way; and David A. DeLorenzo provided a grounding in the real world of foodproduction and marketing.  Richard Utchell provided oversight of the photography.  DonnaSkidmore provided expert review of many of the chapters in Part II. 
Susan Kaus Eckert, R.D., L.D., provided input to Chapters 3 and 4.  Chapter 3 was reviewed
by the following Mayo Clinic consultants:  Michael D. Jensen, M.D., Sundeep Khosla, M.D.,Timothy O’Brien, M.D., Sheldon G. Sheps, M.D., and William F . Young, Jr., M.D.  Specialthanks go to the following graduate students, faculty, and staff of the University of CaliforniaLos Angeles (UCLA) for their contributions to the fruits and vegetables section of Part II:Elizabeth Chacko, Ph.D., Nativita M. Dhaiti, M.S., R.D., James Dinh, M.P .H., RobertoGarces, M.P .H., Helanie Hatter, M.P .H., M.A., Yun Kim, M.S., R.D., Leda Nemer, M.P .H., HeiuNgo, M.P .H., T uong I. Nguyen, M.P .H., James Pfeiffer, Ph.D., Karen Shih, M.P .H., JudithSt. George, Abishek Tewari, Donna Winham, M.P .H., and Osman Galal, M.D., Ph.D.Appreciation is also extended to the research dietitians at UCLA Center for Human Nutrition:Pamela Saltsman, M.P .H., R.D., Shannon Duffy, M.P .H., R.D., Melissa Sherak Resnick, M.P .H.,R.D., and Stacy Macris, M.P .H., R.D.  Members of the UCLA Nutrition Education Committeeprovided input and review of sections of the book.  Inkham Adams and Jolyn K. Gentemen,students from the University of Nevada Department of Nutrition, assisted with the nutrition tables.
Beverly Parker provided writing expertise during the early stages of book development.  Jill
Burcum, Anne Christiansen-Bullers, and Mike Dougherty helped with the writing of all chaptersin Part II (except fruits and vegetables).  In addition, the following staff were involved with thephotography:  food stylists were Susan Brosious, Sue Brue, Suzanne Finley, Robin Krause,Cindy Syme, and Abigail Wyckoff (also a prop stylist); food stylist assistants were Amy Peterson,Susan Tellen, and Teresa Thell; prop stylists were Michele Joy and Rhonda Watkins; photographersincluded Kevin Ross Hedden and Mette Nielson; production coordinator was Edward Fruin.Diane M. Knight provided her skills as a computer artist.  Photographic separation was completedby Davies Printing Company, Rochester, Minnesota.  Executive Chef Patrick Jamon, TheRegency Club, Los Angeles, provided culinary expertise.  Administration support was providedby Jonathan W. Curtright, Mayo Clinic.
xiThis Page Intentionally Left Blank2Chapter 2
HEALTHY
NUTRITIONA G UIDE TO
This Page Intentionally Left BlankThe Nutriants and Other Food Substances  3
The latest research shows that the foods we choose to eat—or not to eat—may increase
our life span or the quality of our lives.  Not a day goes by, it seems, without feature news
stories about food and its impact on health.  The message that we can reduce our chances ofdeveloping cancer, high blood pressure, diabetes, and other diseases by maintaining a healthyweight, decreasing the fat and calories in our diets, eating more vitamin- and mineral-rich fruitsand vegetables, and getting fit is becoming a familiar one.  As more research is done, the linkbetween diet and the risk of developing common diseases such as heart disease or cancer isbecoming clearer and clearer.  Thanks to this research, we are beginning to understand thedietary and lifestyle factors that are most likely to ensure a long, healthy life.  And the goodnews is that we can incorporate these factors into our own lives without sacrificing taste orgiving up the foods we enjoy, by discovering and eating tastier, nutritious fruits, vegetables,and whole grains.
Despite the well-publicized connections among diet, weight, and health, statistics show
that the prevalence of overweight and obesity is increasing at an alarming rate, particularly inchildren and teens.  So why do we cling to our unhealthful habits?  For many, the nutritionand fitness guidelines published by the government and by health organizations may seem over-whelming.  We may have questions about why we should eat what the experts recommend,what foods are or are not nutritious, and whether it is better to obtain some nutrients fromfood or from a multivitamin or nutritional supplement.  Finally, for most of us, eating ispleasurable, and familiar foods are comforting.  The idea of making a major change in the kindsand amounts of food that we eat is daunting. 
Part I of this book provides you with an overview of the principles of good nutrition,
provides you with insight as to why the experts recommend what they recommend, and thengives you some practical tips on how to change the way you eat while still enjoying goodfood.  Chapter 1 begins by reviewing the current guidelines for nutrition and fitness.  Chapter2 provides an overview of the basics of nutrition, including a description of the known nutrients and other food components.  Chapter 3 discusses the role of good nutrition in theprevention and treatment of common diseases.  Chapters 4 and 5 providesuggestions for planning and preparing meals and selecting healthfulfoods.  They give tips on eating out, shopping, reading food labels,and modifying family favorites with healthful recipe makeovers.Sample recipes are provided to show that following a well-balanced,nutritious diet can be an enjoyable undertaking, and 2 weeks ofmenus are given to help you get started.Part I
3In this chapter, you will be introduced to the basic principles of nutrition.
You will learn about the value of a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and grains as the foundation for good health and how to select nutritious foods that contribute to a healthful diet.  You will then be equipped to discern the best approach for your nutritional well-being.  
You will also learn about:
•The new Dietary Reference Intakes and how they are used
•Health Goals—The importance of nutrition
•Dietary Guidelines—Your gateway to nutrition knowledge
•The Food Guide Pyramid:  A guide to eating wellCHAPTEr one
OPTIMIZING
HEALTH
THEDIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES (DRI S)
We all need the same nutrients, but the amounts we need
depend on our age, sex, and a few other factors.  For exam-ple, women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need moreof most nutrients.  The Food and Nutrition Board of theInstitute of Medicine, National Academy of Sciences, agroup of nutritional scientists from the United States andCanada, has established the Dietary Reference Intakes(DRIs), a set of recommendations for nutrient intake.  TheDRIs are age- and sex-specific.  With the exception of fatsand carbohydrates (whose requirements depend only onour calorie needs), a separate DRI is set for each of theknown nutrients for each of 10 different age groups.  Fromthe age of 9 years, males and females have separate DRIs,
and additional DRIs are set for women who
are pregnant or breastfeeding.  
How did the nutrient recom-
mendations originate? Concerned
with the need to provide proper
nutrition for newly drafted
World War II soldiers, many of
whom were undernourished, the
Department of Defense commissioned
the first set of nutrient recommendations
(called the Recommended Dietary Allowances)
in 1941.  Since then, nutrient recommendationsWe are surrounded by a vast array of foods to eat andactivities to pursue.  Every day we make choices
among those foods and activities based on our culturalbackground, knowledge, experiences, and goals.  Eachchoice may have an impact on our overall health and qual-ity of life.  Our ancestors’ food choices were limited bywhat they could gather, catch, cultivate, and harvest.Physical pursuits were determined by the workthat needed to be done.  Today, advancesin agriculture, transportation, foodpreservation, and storage bringnearly every type of food fromevery country of the world toour local supermarkets through-out the year.  With such a lim-itless array of foods, choosingthe ones that promote health iseasier than ever, but making thesechoices requires knowledge andmotivation.  This chapter explainshow the guidelines established bynationally recognized health andnutrition authorities can be usedto help you understand the foodchoices that promote health, choosethe foods that contain needed nutrients,and select appropriate serving sizes.have undergone periodic revision based on advances in our
understanding of nutrition.
Today, nutrition research addresses not only the preven-
tion of nutritional-deficiency diseases but also the role of
nutrients in reducing the long-term risk for diseases suchas heart disease and cancer.  Taking into consideration theresulting expansion of scientific knowledge about the rolesof nutrients in health since the first recommendations wereestablished, the latest revision was begun in 1997.  The newDietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) include the RecommendedDietary Allowance, the Estimated Average Requirement, theAdequate Intake, and the Upper Limit.
The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) is the
amount of each nutrient that is sufficient to prevent nutri-tional deficiencies in practically all healthy people.  TheEstimated Average Requirement (EAR) is the amount of anutrient that is estimated to meet the requirement of halfthe population of an age- and sex-specific group.  For somenutrients, too little is known about them to establish anRDA.  For these, an Adequate Intake (AI) is determined.This is the intake that should be adequate to meet theneeds of most people.  A safe Upper Limit (UL) has beenestablished for some nutrients.  Establishment of this valuereflects our growing recognition that some nutrients mayhelp promote health and prevent disease in amounts thatexceed the RDA.  The UL is the maximal daily intake of anutrient that is likely to be free of the risk of adverse health
effects in almost all individuals in the designated group.  
How are the DRIs used?  They are the basis for all nutri-
tional plans used by health care facilities and providers,food services, food manufacturers, and others who plandiets.  As you will learn below, the Food Guide Pyramid,the research-based food guide developed by the govern-ment, is based on the DRIs.  In addition, the Daily Values,the information on food labels that helps you determinehow a food contributes to your total nutrient intake, arebased on the DRIs (see the Appendix:  Dietary ReferenceIntakes, page 421).
AMERICA ’SHEALTH GOALS
According to recent statistics, our eating habits—the foodswe eat and drink and those we avoid—play a major role inpreventing 4 of the 10 leading causes of death in the UnitedStates.  These include heart disease, cancer, stroke, anddiabetes (see sidebar: Top 10 Causes of Death, this page).  Inaddition, one in four adults has high blood pressure, a
leading contributor to stroke, heart attack, kidney failure,and premature death.  (See Chapter 3, page 47, for theimportant role of diet.)  We didn’t always have this knowl-edge.  But now that we do, experts in nutrition workingwith the federal government have provided us with  nutri-tion and physical activity guidelines for staying healthy and
preventing disease.
Many government and health care associations focus
their efforts on helping Americans eat well.  Chief amongthem is the U.S. Department of Health and HumanServices, which created a set of national health goals entitledHealthy People 2010.
Healthy People 2010
The ultimate goals of Healthy People 2010 are to improvethe nation's health status and to eliminate health disparityamong segments of the U.S. population.  One of the priori-ties of this initiative is to foster a change in America's eating6Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
RANK CAUSE OF DEATH
1† Heart disease
2† Cancer
3† Stroke
4 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(emphysema)
5‡ Accidents/injuries
6 Pneumonia and influenza
7† Diabetes mellitus
8‡ Suicide
9 Kidney disease
10‡ Chronic liver disease, cirrhosis
*Top 10 causes of death according to the National Center for
Health Statistics, 1997.
†Causes of death in which diet plays a part.
‡Causes of death in which excessive alcohol consumption plays 
a part.TOP10 C AUSES OF DEATH* (U.S. P OPULATION )
Many of the leading causes of death in the United States are
directly related to diet and excessive alcohol consumption.habits.  The primary means for achieving these goals is
through various nutrition initiatives (see sidebar:  HealthyPeople 2010, above).
Mounting scientific evidence supports a link among
diet, health promotion, and disease prevention.  Improvednutrition has the potential to prevent or delay many diseasesoften associated with advancing age.  With prevention ofillness comes the possibility of reducing health care costs.Therefore, one of the main nutrition objectives is to promotehealth and reduce chronic diseases associated with diet andobesity.  This includes reducing the number of people whodie of heart disease, reducing the number of cancer deaths,reducing the prevalence of overweight and diabetes, andreducing growth retardation in children.
To help achieve these health goals, specific nutrition
targets were set.  These include:• increasing the proportion of the population who are
at a healthy weight
• optimizing food and nutrient consumption, emphasiz-
ing fruits, vegetables, and whole grains
• improving nutrition and nutrition education at
schools and at worksites
• including nutrition counseling as a regular part of
health care
• increasing access to a healthful and safe food supply
Coalitions of government health agencies and the food
industry are working collaboratively to provide consistentmessages that emphasize the importance of eating a dietrich in plant foods—fruits, vegetables, and grains—andcontaining less fat (see Other Voices, page 14).
For example, the government has required that labels on
foods provide clear and concise information on nutrientChapter 1:  Optimizing Health 7
Objective :
Promote health and reduce chronic diseases associated
with diet and weight
Weight status and growth:
Increase proportion of people who are of healthy
weight
Decrease obesity in adultsDecrease overweight or obesity in children and
adolescents
Reduce growth retardation in children
Food and nutrient consumption:
Increase fruit intake (2+ servings daily)Increase vegetable intake (3+ servings daily)Increase grain product intake (6+ servings daily)Decrease saturated fat intake (less than 10% of calories)Decrease total fat intake (no more than 30% of calories)Food and nutrient consumption (continued):
Decrease sodium intake (2,400 milligrams or 
less daily)
Meet dietary needs for calciumReduce iron deficiency and anemia
Schools, worksites, and nutrition counseling
Meals and snacks at school should contribute to overall
dietary quality
Employers promote nutrition education and weight
management at the worksite or through health plans
Nutrition counseling for medical conditions
Include nutrition counseling in physician office visits
Food security
Increase access to nutritionally adequate and safe foods
for an active, healthy lifeHEALTHY PEOPLE 2010
Overall Health Goals:  Increase quality and years of healthy life and eliminate 
health disparities among different segments of the population
*Nutrition and Overweight is one focus area (of 28) that targets interventions designed to increase quality and years of healthy  life and
to eliminate health disparities among different segments of the population.FOCUS AREA:  N UTRITION AND OVERWEIGHT *content and truthful health claims based on scientific fact.
The food industry is developing healthier lower-fat andlower-calorie products, restaurants are identifying healthfulchoices on menus, and educational efforts on the impor-tance of good nutrition have been stepped up.
5 a Day for Better Health
The National Cancer Institute of the United States andthe Produce for Better Health Foundation (a nonprofitconsumer education foundation representing the fruit andvegetable industry) collaborated in a unique partnershipin 1991 to develop the 5 a Day for Better Health program.This is a nationwide educational effort to encourageAmericans to eat 5 or more servings of fruits and vegetablesevery day for better health.  A minimum of 5 servings offruits and vegetables a day provides the RDA for many ofthe vitamins and minerals (see Chapter 2, page  29).  The rec-ommendation that we eat 5 to 9 servings of fruits and veg-etables each day also is based on the results of numerousstudies showing the positive effects of fruits and vegetableson health as a result of their ability to reduce the risk of can-cer and other diseases.  Ample consumption of fruits andvegetables forms the basis of some of the Dietary Guidelinesfor Americans and the guidelines of the American CancerSociety and others, outlined below.  The 5 a Day programworks through state public health departments, retail foodstores, school classrooms and cafeterias, the military, andvarious media.  The goal of the program is to educate thepublic about the benefits of fruits and vegetables and to
demonstrate easy and delicious ways to fit more of them intoyour diet (see Chapters 4 and 5, pages 79 through 149).
Have We Made Progress?
The explosion of health information and nutrition educa-tion programs has led to good progress on several fronts.Deaths from heart disease have declined and, to a slightdegree, so have deaths from some cancers.  On average,the intake of total fat and saturated fat has decreased.  Foodlabeling provides much more useful information now.Restaurants offer more low-fat and low-calorie options ontheir menus.
Although consumption of grain products is on the rise,
many grains are in the form of snacks such as corn chips andpopcorn.  Fewer than one-third of American children andless than one-half of adults eat the recommended 5 servingsof fruits and vegetables.  Overall, fat intake is decreasing(from 40 percent of calories in the late 1970s to 33 percentin the mid-1990s).  However, only about a third of adultsmeet the “30 percent or fewer calories from fat” recom-mendation of nutrition experts.
Nutritionists are now assessing our progress in meeting
the goals of Healthy People 2010.  These efforts will includeevaluating healthful behaviors in the areas of fitness andnutrition, ensuring a safe food supply, and reducing and pre-venting diseases such as osteoporosis, cancer, diabetes, heartdisease, and stroke.  
Of course, national goals are met one person at a time.
Fortunately, there is a road map for achieving fitness andhealth.  Scientists and nutrition experts have mapped outa sound plan for healthful eating and exercise based on themost current findings about nutrition.  
THEDIETARY GUIDELINES
FORAMERICANS
Aim for Fitness
Aim for a healthful weightResearch clearly shows that being overweight greatlyincreases your risk for many diseases, including heart dis-ease, cancer, and diabetes.  If you are overweight, com-bining a healthful eating plan with regular physical activ-ity is the most effective way to lose weight  and to sustain8Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
the loss (see sidebar:  Diet and Exercise—The Perfect Pair,
page 10).  If you are at a healthy weight, your goal is tomaintain that weight.  Chapter 3 (page 47) provides furtherinformation on weight control.
Be physically active each day
Everyone—young and old—can improve their health by beingmore active.  Choose activities that you enjoy and can do reg-ularly.  Although you will gain more health benefits with high-intensity exercise that lasts 30 minutes or more, low-to-mod-erate activities can be part of your routine.  For some people,this means fitting more activity of daily living into your usualroutine.  This could include using the elevator less and usingthe stairs more, parking farther from rather than closer to yourdestination, gardening, or golfing without a cart.  For others,a more structured program might be preferred, such as at aworksite or health club.  Whichever you choose, the goal is toinclude at least 30 minutes of activity every day.
The need for regular physical activity is so important
that the Surgeon General of the United States has issued areport entitled Physical Activity and Health, which has its ownguidelines for achieving activity.  They are the following:• Physical activity should be performed regularly.
Include a minimum of 30 minutes of moderate physicalactivity (such as brisk walking) on most, if not all,days of the week.  For most people, greater healthbenefits can be obtained by engaging in activity thatis more vigorous or of longer duration.
• Previously sedentary people should start with short
durations of moderate activities and gradually increaseduration or intensity.
• Physical activity should be supplemented with
strength-enhancing exercises at least twice a week toimprove musculoskeletal health, maintain independencein performing the activities of daily life, and reducethe risk of falling.
• Consult with a physician before beginning a new
physical activity program if you have—or are at riskfor—a medical condition (such as heart disease, highblood pressure, or diabetes), or if you are a man olderthan 40 years or a woman older than 50.
Build a Healthy Base
Let the Pyramid guide your food choicesYour body needs more than 40 nutrients and other substancesfor good health.  No one food can give you all the nutrients yourbody needs, no matter how much you enjoy it or how nutri-
tious the food is.  By eating a wide variety of foods each day,you will keep your meals exciting and you will achieve thebalance of nutrients that best ensures good health.  (See page11 for more information on the Food Guide Pyramid.)
Choose a variety of grains daily, especially whole grains
Choosing a diet rich in grains, especially whole grains,reduces your risk of many diseases.  These foods providedifferent types of vitamins, minerals, and fiber, as well asphytochemicals—important plant substances that may bebeneficial to health.  Rely on a wide variety of these foodsrather than supplements as your source of nutrients, fiber,and phytochemicals.  Aim for 6 servings each day—moreif you are very active—and include several servings ofwhole-grain foods.  (See Chapter 2, page 33.)
Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables daily
Fruits and vegetables are essential in your diet.  They providemany vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, and fiber, andthey are low in calories and provide no fat.  The goal is tohave at least 2 servings of fruit and 3 servings of vegetablesevery day.  Variety is important.  Choose different colors andChapter 1:  Optimizing Health 9
DIETARY GUIDELINES FOR AMERICANS
The ABCs of good health
Aim for Fitness
• Aim for a healthful weight• Be physically active each day
Build a Healthy Base
• Let the Pyramid guide your food choices• Choose a variety of grains daily, especially whole
grains
• Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables daily• Keep foods safe to eat
Choose Sensibly
• Choose a diet that is low in saturated fat and choles-
terol and moderate in total fat
• Choose beverages and foods to moderate your intake 
of sugars
• Choose and prepare foods with less salt• If you drink alcoholic beverages, do so in moderationkinds of fruits and vegetables.  (See Chapters 4 and 5, pages
79 through 149, for ideas on how to include these impor-tant foods as regular features in your meals.  Part II, page150, also describes the bounty from which to choose.)
Keep foods safe to eat
Food safety is vital.  It starts well before you purchase food.
However, the steps you control also make a difference.They include making sure you have clean hands and worksurfaces—before and during the handling of food.  Take care
to separate raw, cooked, and ready-to-eat foods at all times.
Keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold.  Make sure tocook food to the proper temperature.  Refrigerate perish-able foods and leftovers promptly.  Follow the dates oncontainers.  And finally, when in doubt, throw it out.  (Forfurther discussion on food safety issues, see Chapter 5,page 148.)
Choose Sensibly
Choose a diet that is low in saturated fat and choles-terol and moderate in total fatFat is a nutrient that is essential for health, but too much fatin your diet, especially saturated fat, increases your risk ofseveral diseases, including heart disease.  Most important,learn to identify the sources of fats, saturated fats, and cho-lesterol, and make healthful food choices.  (See Chapter 2, Fats,page 26, and Chapter 3, Coronary Artery Disease, page 61.)Choose beverages and foods to moderate your intake 
of sugarsSome foods that contain natural sugar (such as fruits, vegetables,and milk products) also contain essential nutrients.  Others,such as table sugar, sugar-sweetened carbonated beverages,candy, and some baked goods, supply calories but few othernutrients.  When consuming sugar, moderation is key. (SeeChapter 2, Carbohydrates, page 18.)
Choose and prepare foods with less salt
Sodium, a nutrient, is a major part of table salt (sodium chlo-ride). It is found naturally in many foods in small amounts.
Salt and sodium compounds are also added to processedfoods, and salt may be used in cooking or added at the table.Reducing sodium intake lowers high blood pressure insome individuals.  Moderation in sodium intake is recom-
mended.  (See Chapter 3, High Blood Pressure, page 53.)
If you drink alcoholic beverages, do so in moderation
Alcoholic beverages (beer, wine, and hard liquor) are asource of extra calories.  When consumed in excess, alcoholcan impair judgment, result in dependency, and lead toseveral serious health problems.  However, evidence suggeststhat a moderate intake of alcohol is associated with a lowerrisk of disease of the heart and blood vessels (cardiovasculardisease) in some individuals.  Discuss the consumption ofalcohol with your health care provider.  (See sidebar:Alcohol and Health, page 387.)10Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
DIET AND EXERCISE —T HEPERFECT PAIR
Diet along with exercise is the most effective way to lose weight.
A deficit of 500 calories daily can add up to a loss of 1 pound a w eek.
Here are some suggestions for skimming approximately 250 to 300 calories off your daily diet 
and for burning an additional 250 calories through increased physical activity.
DIET
Decrease usual meat intake by 3 to 4 ounces daily
Cut butter, margarine, or oil by 2 tablespoons dailyEliminate two 12-ounce cans of sweetened carbonated
beverages daily
Decrease beer intake by two 12-ounce cans dailyDo not eat a candy barEXERCISE
Walk at a moderate pace for 60 minutes dailyGarden for 50 minutes dailySwim laps for 30 minutes dailyJog 25 minutes dailyBike briskly for 25 minutes dailyTHEPOWER OF THE FOODGUIDE PYRAMID
The Food Guide Pyramid, the triangular symbol you see on
many food packages, was developed by nutrition experts atthe U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) (see below).The Pyramid is an educational tool that translates nutrientrequirements into the foods you need to eat and helps youput into action the advice offered by the Dietary Guidelines.
In graphic form, the Pyramid displays the variety of foodchoices and the correct proportions needed to attain the rec-ommended amounts of all the nutrients you need with-out consuming an excess of calories.  The Pyramid dividesall foods into six categories, based on the nutrients theycontain.Chapter 1:  Optimizing Health 11
Vegetables: Fresh or
cooked v egetables,
vegetable sauces,or juicesMeats and other high-protein foods: Lean meats,
poultry, fish, eggs (3 to 4 yolks per week), cooked
dry beans, peas, lentils, peanut butter, nuts, 
seeds, tofuFats, oils, and sweets (eat sparingly)
Milk products: Skim or low-fat
milk, yogurt, low-fat or nonfatcheeses or cottage cheese
Grains: Whole-grain breads,
bagels, English muffins,
breakfast cereals (whole-
grain, cooked, or ready-
to-eat), crackers,
tortillas, pancakes,
pasta, riceFruits: Fresh fruit (apple, apricots,
banana, berries, dates, figs, grapefruit,
grapes, guava, kiwi, mango, melon,
nectarine, orange, pineapple), 
canned fruit, juices
The Food Guide Pyramid was developed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  The pyramid incorporates many principles that
emphasize a plant-based diet that is low in fat, high in fiber, and rich in important vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients. All of these factors contribute to optimal health and help you to control your weight and to reduce the risk of heart disease a nd
some types of cancer.  The arrangement of the food groups in a pyramid shape calls attention to the kinds of foods to eat more of and those to eat in moderation.THEFOOD GUIDE PYRAMID12Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
SIZING UPYOURSERVINGS
Even if you eat a variety of foods, serving sizes are an important part of maintaining a healthful weight.
Knowing them can help you gauge if you are eating enough food — or too much. 
GRAINS
1 slice bread1 ounce ready-to-eat cereal (large handful or check the package label)1/2 cup cooked cereal, rice, or pasta (similar to the size of an ice cream scoop)
FRUITS
1 medium apple or orange (size of tennis ball)1 medium banana1/2 cup cut-up, canned, or cooked fruit3/4 cup 100% fruit juice
VEGETABLES
1 cup raw leafy vegetables (the size of your fist)1/2 cup other vegetables, chopped (raw or cooked)3/4 cup vegetable juice
MILKPRODUCTS
(choose low-fat varieties)
1 cup milk or yogurt1 1/2 ounces natural cheese (the size of a pair of dice 
or pair of dominoes)
2 ounces low-fat processed cheese
MEATS
2 to 3 ounces of cooked lean meat, poultry, or fish 
(about the size of a deck of cards or the palm of your hand)
THE FOLLOWING ALSO EQUAL 1OUNCE OF MEAT :
1/2 cup cooked dry beans or legumes (ice cream scoop) 1 egg (3 to 4 yolks per week)2 tablespoons peanut butter1/3 cup nuts1/2 cup tofu
FATS, OILS,AND SWEETS
(These foods add calories and are usually low in nutrients.  Eat them sparingly.)ONESERVING EQUALSChapter 1:  Optimizing Health 13
The six categories of the Pyramid are:
• Grain products (bread, cereal, rice, and pasta)• Fruits• Vegetables• Milk products (milk, yogurt, cheese)• Meats and other high-protein foods (lean meats,
poultry, fish, dry beans, eggs, and nuts)
• Fats, oils, and sweets
The shape of the Pyramid, widest at the base and narrowest
at the tip, makes it easy to visualize the contribution that eachgroup of foods should make to your overall eating planwhen you follow the Dietary Guidelines.  The emphasis ofthe Pyramid is on increasing the proportion of fruits,vegetables, and grains—those foods that form the base of thePyramid—and decreasing the proportion of higher-fatfoods—the ones at the very top—in our diets. 
The grain group, which includes bread, cereal, rice,
and pasta, forms the broad foundation of the Pyramid toemphasize that grains should be a major contributor to
our overall diet.  As often as possible, our choices of grainfoods should be those made from whole grains, for themost nutritional value.  
As illustrated by the Pyramid, in addition to grains,
our diet should include ample servings of  fruits and veg-etables.  If our daily need is to be met for vitamins, minerals,fiber, and other impor tant phytochemicals (plant chemi-
cals that are believed to play a role in preventing disease),
the bulk of our diets must come from plant foods.  
Because of the saturated fat they contain, meats, poultry,
and seafood (the high-protein foods) and dairy products(high in protein, calcium, and other minerals) should makea smaller contribution to our daily fare.  Foods that occu-py the tip of the Pyramid, pure fats (cooking oil, butter, andmargarine) and high-fat, high-sugar sweets, are the onesto include only sparingly, like the proverbial icing on thecake.  The Pyramid is designed to promote and encourageCHILDREN , TEENGIRLS, T EENBOYS,
MOSTWOMEN , A CTIVE WOMEN , A CTIVE MEN,
OLDER ADULTS MOSTMEN VERYACTIVE WOMEN
Calorie level About 1,600 About 2,200 About 2,800
SUGGESTED NUMBER OF SERVINGS
Grain group 6 9 11
Fruit group 2 3 4Vegetable group 3 4 5Milk group 2–3* 2–3* 2–3*Meat group 2 2 3
(for a total of (for a total of (for a total of
5 ounces) 6 ounces) 7 ounces)
Total fat 
(less than 30% of 
calories) 53 grams or less
† 73 grams or less † 93 grams or less †
*3 servings are recommended for women who are pregnant or breastfeeding, teenagers, and young adults up to age 24.
†Values are rounded off.HOWMANYSERVINGS DOYOUNEEDEACHDAY?
This table tells you how many servings to aim for from each food group.  The number of servings you need depends 
on your age, sex, and how active you are.  The table also indicates how much fat (in grams) should be 
your limit.  This includes the fat you find in foods and the fat that you add to foods.14Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
a plant- based diet, one that is  based primarily on grains,
fruits, and vegetables.  Yet, by including all types of foods,the Pyramid emphasizes the need for us to choose a varietyof foods and the fact that there are no “bad” foods.  
The Pyramid is designed to address the needs of all persons
older than 2 years by providing a range of recommended
servings for each food group (see sidebars: Sizing Up YourServings, page 12, and How Many Servings Do You NeedEach Day? page 13).  The number of servings that youshould choose from each food group depends on yourcalorie needs, which in turn depend on your age, size, sex,and activity level.  The lower number of servings providesa total daily energy intake of about 1,600 calories.  Thiscalorie level meets the needs of most sedentary women andsome older adults.  The higher number of servings, whichprovides approximately 2,800 calories, is recommendedfor physically active men, teen boys, and some very activewomen.  The middle range of servings is designed to provideabout 2,200 calories, sufficient for children, teen girls,active women, and most men.  These calorie estimatesassume that you choose lean meats, lower-fat dairy foods,and vegetables and grains prepared and eaten with minimaladded fat and sugar.
In 1999, the USDA released a Children’s Pyramid.  The
Children’s Pyramid was designed to address the needs of 2-to 6-year-olds.  It has proportionally smaller portions andnumbers of recommended servings from each group of foodsexcept fruits and vegetables.  This emphasizes that children,too, need at least 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day.
Similar to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, the
Food Guide Pyramid undergoes periodic updates to reflectwhat we have learned about the role of nutrition in diseaseprevention.  To get an idea of the changes you might see inthe next Pyramid, let’s take a look at some other Pyramidsthat have been constructed.
Other Pyramids 
The risk for heart disease and some types of cancer amongpeople who live in the Mediterranean region—southernItaly, France, Spain, and Greece—is significantly lowerthan the risk in Americans.  Nutritional scientists haveuncovered strong evidence that the eating, drinking, andexercise habits of the Mediterranean people play a major rolein their low risk for disease.  The Mediterranean diet hasbeen illustrated as a “Mediterranean Pyramid,” based on ourown Food Guide Pyramid.  It is built on a foundation ofpasta, bread, rice, and other grains, with large contribu-tions of vegetables and legumes (beans and peas) and small
portions of meat, poultry, seafood, and dairy products.The fat used in cooking and for dressings is olive oil, ratherthan butter.  Desserts consist of fresh fruits, and meals areaccompanied by wine.  This plant-based diet is naturally lowin saturated fat, higher in monounsaturated fats (from oliveoil), and rich in fiber , vitamins, minerals, and phytochemicals
(see Chapter 2, page 33).  In addition to adhering to a plant-based diet (which includes generous servings of legumessuch as kidney beans, peas, and lentils), Mediterraneanpeople have a more physically active lifestyle than mostAmericans.  This factor also may contribute to their lowerrisk of heart disease.  The major difference between theMediterranean diet and the USDA Food Guide Pyramidlies in the distinction between the recommendation tolower total fat, which places all high-fat foods at the tip ofthe Pyramid, and the Mediterranean practice of includingmonounsaturated fats but limiting saturated fats (seeChapter 2, page 26).
You also may have heard of other Pyramids, such as a
Vegetarian Pyramid and an Asian Pyramid.  Like theMediterranean Pyramid, these pyramids were constructed toillustrate dietary practices of groups whose risk of heart diseaseand some types of cancer is lower than that of people whoconsume a typical Western diet.  Not surprisingly, thesepyramids also illustrate diets that are plant-based and low insaturated fat.  Still other pyramids are designed merely toshowcase foods that are native to particular regions or pro-duced by particular companies.  The Mayo Clinic HealthyWeight Pyramid and the California Pyramid, however, haveone unique feature that we may see incorporated into a futureFood Guide Pyramid, that is, the inclusion of fruits and veg-etables, rather than grains, as the foundation of the Pyramid.By replacing grains with fruits and vegetables at the base, thecritical need to increase our intake of these foods is emphasized.
OTHER VOICES :  G UIDELINES OF HEALTH
ORGANIZATIONS
In addition to the Food Guide Pyramid and the DietaryGuidelines for Americans, several private health organiza-tions (the American Heart Association, the AmericanCancer Society, and the American Institute for CancerResearch) have issued their own nutritional guidelines.  
When the guidelines of all the major health organizations
are compared, they are similar.  Recognizing this, expertsfrom the American Heart Association, the American CancerChapter 1:  Optimizing Health 15
Society, the American Dietetic Association, the American
Academy of Pediatrics, the American Society for ClinicalNutrition, and the National Institutes of Health met in1999 to review scientific evidence and to identify practicesthat are effective against major diseases.  The dietary rec-ommendations that these groups have in common include:•Total fat :  no more than 30% of calories
•Saturated fat :  less than 10% of calories
•Monounsaturated fat :  no more than 15% of calories
•Polyunsaturated fat :  no more than 15% of calories
•Cholesterol :  no more than 300 milligrams daily
•Carbohydrates :  55% or more of calories
•Salt (sodium chloride) : less than 6 grams daily (4 grams
of sodium)
These recommendations can be achieved by following the
Dietary Guidelines for Americans (page 9) and by using theFood Guide Pyramid (page 11).THEBOTTOM LINE:  OPTIMIZING HEALTH
The message is clear.  Nutrition experts agree that when you
lower the total fat, saturated fat, and added sugar in yourdiet and increase the vitamins, minerals, and fiber by eatingmore fruits, vegetables, and grains, you can improve yourquality of life and help prevent many of the diseases that arethe leading causes of death.  Now that you know the goalsand guidelines for healthful eating, we will provide youwith the nutrition and food selection knowledge you needto put those guidelines into practice.
Chapter 2 explains the nutrients we all need, the roles
they play in promoting health, the best food sources forthese nutrients, and how your nutritional needs changethroughout your life.  Chapter 3 describes how your risk forserious illnesses is influenced by your diet.  Chapters 4 and5 help you learn to use the Food Guide Pyramid to choosethe most nutritious foods, and they give you guidanceabout planning and preparing healthful, appetizing meals.
Red Meat
Sweets
 Eggs
Poultry
Fish
Cheese and Yogurt
Olive Oil (variable amounts)
FruitsBeans,
Legumes
and Nuts Vegetables
Breads, Pasta, Rice, Couscous,
Polenta, Bulgar, Other Grains
and PotatoesA few times per month
A few times per week
Daily
Wine in
moderation
Eggs and Poultry     
FruitsLegumes,
Nuts &
SeedsVegetables
Rice, Rice Products, Noodles, Breads,
Millet, Corn & Other Grainsor Dairy
Vegetable OilsFish &
ShellfishRed Meat
SweetsMonthly
Weekly
Optional Daily
DailyMediterranean
PyramidMayo Clinic 
Healthy Weight Pyramid
Physical Activity Physical ActivityCalifornia Pyramid
Asian PyramidIn this chapter, you will be introduced to the 
nutrients your body needs.  You will learn the roleeach nutrient plays in your body, how much you needand how often, ideal food sources of each nutrient, and how all the nutrients work to optimize health.
You will also learn about some recently identified
substances in plant foods, the phytochemicals, that may promote health and help prevent disease.to get more complex carbohydrates, what do they mean
and what foods contain those nutrients?  In this chapter, wefocus on the nutrients themselves—how they are digested,what happens to them in the body, and what they do for you.We also say a little about the best food sources of each nutri-ent, because, after all, when you go to the supermarket,you don’t look for protein, starch, fiber, and antioxidants,you look for chicken, rice, raisin bran, and orange juice.
Nutrients are sorted into categories on the basis of their
chemical structures and functions.  Carbohydrates, proteins,and fats contained in foods are known as the macronutrients,because they are required in the largest quantities.  Inaddition to their other functions, macronutrients provideenergy in the form of calories.  Vitamins and minerals are
known as the micronutrients.  They are
required by your body in much smaller
quantities.  Although the micronutri-
ents help your body use the energy in
macronutrients, they provide no energy
(calories) themselves.  W ater is also an
essential, calorie- free nutrient. The work
our bodies do each day causes us to deplete
some of our stores of these essential nutrients.
Only by maintaining a diet that is rich in
various nutrient-containing foods can we replace
those lost nutrients.CHAPTEr two
NUTRIENTS
AND OTHER FOOD
SUBSTANCESTHE
There is no one perfect food.  We need an assortmentof nutrients that can be obtained only by eating a
wide variety of foods.  What is it that our bodies need?Scientists have identified more than 40 different nutrientsin food.  These substances are essential for growth and forthe chemical reactions and processes that keep us alive andfunctioning (metabolism).
Except for an extremely small number of foods that
consist almost entirely of one nutrient, the vast majority ofthe foods we eat are mixtures of many nutrients.  Nevertheless,each group of foods included in the Food Guide Pyramid(grains, fruits and vegetables, milk products, and meats)(see Chapter 1, page 11) is unique in the types of nutrientsit contributes to our diets.  For example,fruits and vegetables are the mainsource of many vitamins, minerals,and complex carbohydrates in ourdiets, and the meat group (includ-ing dry beans and legumes, eggs,poultry, and fish) is the main sourceof protein for most people.  
It can be difficult to understand
the difference between the nutrientsthemselves and the foods that con-tain them.  For example, when youhear nutrition experts talk about the needIn addition to the known nutrients, substances in foods
of plant origin, called phytochemicals or phytonutrients
(phyto is the Greek word for plant), have been identified in
recent studies.  These phytochemicals may promote healthand help prevent certain diseases.  Hundreds of suchcompounds are being identified in the fruits, vegetables,nuts, beans, and grains we eat, although only a few havebeen thoroughly studied.  How these various phytochem-icals influence our health is a promising new area of researchfor nutrition experts.
THEMACRONUTRIENTS :
CARBOHYDRATES , PROTEINS ,ANDFATS
Each of the macronutrients—carbohydrates, proteins, andfats—plays various roles in the function of our bodies.  Inaddition to their unique functions, all of the macronutrientssupply calories.  When we eat more protein, carbohydrate,or fat than we need to replenish what we have used, theexcess is converted to and stored as fat.  Calories are usedto support all muscular activity, to carry out the metabol-ic reactions that sustain the body, to maintain bodytemperature, and to support growth.  But when we con-sistently take in more calories than we use, we gain weight.Weight is maintained when energy (calorie) intake balancesenergy output (see Chapter 3, page 48) .
CARBOHYDRATES
The carbohydrates are a vast and diverse group of nutrients
found in most foods.  This group includes simple sugars(like the sugar you add to your morning coffee) and complexforms such as starches (contained in pasta, br ead, cereal,
and in some fruits and vegetables), which are br oken down
during digestion to produce simple sugars.  The mainfunction of the simple sugars and starches in the foods weeat is to deliver calories for energy.  The simple sugar glucoseis required to satisfy the energy needs of the brain, whereasour muscles use glucose for short-term bouts of activity.The liver and muscles also convert small amounts of thesugar and starch that we eat into a storage form calledglycogen.  After a long workout, muscle glycogen storesmust be replenished.  Both simple sugars and starchesprovide about 4 calories per gram (a gram is about theweight of a paper clip). Because carbohydrates serveprimarily as sources of calories (and we can get calories
from other macronutrients), no specific requirement hasbeen set for them (see Chapter 1, The Dietary ReferenceIntakes [DRIs], page 5).  But health experts agree that weshould obtain most of our calories (about 60 percent) fromcarbohydrates.  Our individual requirements depend onage, sex, size, and activity level.  
In contrast to the other carbohydrates, fiber (a substance
contained in bran, fruits, vegetables, and legumes) is a typeof complex carbohydrate that cannot be readily digested byour bodies.  Even though it isn’t digested, fiber is essentialto our health .Nutrition professionals recommend 25 to 30
grams of fiber daily.
Simple Sugars
Simple sugars make foods sweet.  They are small moleculesfound in many foods and in many forms.  Some simplesugars occur naturally in foods.  For example, fructose is thesugar that naturally gives some fruits their sweet flavor.  
Table sugar, the sugar that we spoon onto our cereal
and add to the cookies we bake, also called sucrose, is themost familiar simple sugar.  A ring-shaped molecule ofsucrose actually consists of a molecule of fructose chemi-cally linked to a molecule of another simple sugar calledglucose.  Sugars such as fructose and glucose are known asmonosaccharides, because of their single (mono) ringstructure, whereas two-ringed sugars such as sucrose areknown as disaccharides.  Another disaccharide, lactose, thesugar that gives milk its slightly sweet taste, consists ofglucose linked to yet another simple sugar called galac tose.
The inability to digest lactose to its constituent sugars is thecause of lactose intolerance, a condition common to adultsof Asian, Mediterranean, and African ancestry.
The table sugar that we purchase is processed from
sugar cane or sugar beets.  As an additive to many differenttypes of prepared or processed foods, sucrose adds nutritivevalue (in the form of calories only), flavor, texture, andstructure, while helping to retain moisture.  Today, sucroseis most often used to sweeten (nondietetic) carbonatedbeverages and fruit drinks (other than juice), candy, pastries,cakes, cookies, and frozen desserts.  One of the most com-
monly consumed forms of sugar is called high-fr uctose corn
syrup.  High-fructose corn syrup is also commonly used tosweeten sodas, fruit drinks (not juices), some ice creams, andsome manufactured pastries and cookies.  Other forms of
sucrose include brown sugar , maple syrup, molasses, and
turbinado (raw) sugar.18Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionFoods that are high in added sugar are often low in essen-
tial nutrients such as vitamins and minerals. U nfortunately,
these foods are often eaten in place of more nutrient-rich
foods such as fruits, vegetables, and low-fat whole- grain
products, and they may prev ent us fr om obtaining essen-
tial nutrients and lead to weight gain.
Nutritionists are concerned by the enormous increase
in sugar consumption by Americans during the past 30years, particularly because much of this sugar is in the formof soft drinks.  On average, teens today drink twice as muchsoda as milk, and young adults drink three times as muchsoda as milk.  As a result, their intake of calcium-rich foodsis low, a factor that is thought to contribute to lower bonemass.  This can lead to an increased risk of  bone problems
as we grow older (see Chapter 3, Osteoporosis, page 67).
The increase in sugar consumption also has been attrib-
uted to the increasing availability of low-fat versions ofsuch dessert and snack foods as cookies, cakes, and frozen
desserts.  Often, the sugar content of these foods is highbecause sugar is used to replace the flavor lost when thefat is decreased.  Sugar promotes tooth decay, whenconsumed in forms that allow it to remain in contact withthe teeth for extended periods (see sidebar: “Hidden” Sugarin Common Foods, this page) .
Thus, foods that are high in sugar, or sugar and fat,
and have few other nutrients to offer appear at the top ofthe Food Guide Pyramid because they should be eatensparingly.  In contrast, choosing fresh fruits, which arenaturally sweetened with their own fructose, or low-fatyogurt, which contains lactose (natural milk sugar), allowsus to get the vitamins and minerals contained in thosefoods as well as other food components that contribute tohealth but may not have yet been identified.
On the positive side, there is no credible evidence to
demonstrate that sugar causes diabetes, attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, depression, or hypoglycemia.  Noevidence has been found that sugar-containing foods are“addictive” in the true sense of the word, although manypeople report craving sweet foods, particularly those thatare also high in fat.
Complex Carbohydrates
Found almost exclusively in foods of plant origin, complexcarbohydrates are long chains of molecules of the simplesugar glucose.  The complex carbohydrates in plant foodscan be divided into two groups: starch and fiber.  
Starch is the form of carbohydrate that is found in grains,
some fruits and vegetables, legumes, nuts, and seeds. Itprovides energy for newly sprouting plants.  Fiber is thetougher material that forms the coat of a seed and otherstructural components of the plant (see illustration on page20).  Starches are digested by our bodies into their constituentglucose molecules and used for energy, whereas fiber is not.Starch, like simple sugars, provides 4 calories per gram,whereas fiber (sometimes called nonnutritive fiber) providesno calories.  Like simple sugars, the role of starches in ourdiets is mainly to provide energy.  
Fiber is actually a family of substances found in fruits,
vegetables, legumes, and the outer layers of grains.  Scientistsdivide fiber into two categories:  those that do not dissolveChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 19
“HIDDEN ” SUGAR IN COMMON FOODS
Some foods contain sugar that has been added during
processing.  The following foods contain a large amount of sugar.  The sugar content is shown in grams, and itsequivalents in teaspoons are also given.
Try to eat high-sugar foods less frequently or in smaller
amounts. Check labels and compare similar foods—choose
those that are lower in sugar content.  Go easy on addingsugar to food.
FOOD AMOUNT GRAMS TEASPOONS
OFSUGAR OF SUGAR
Fruit punch 12 ounces 40 10
Carbonated soft
drink, sweetened 12 ounces 40 10
Ice cream 1 cup 40 10
Yogurt with fruit 1 cup 35 9
Candy bar 1 average 30 8
Apple pie 1 slice 15 4
Sweetened cereal 1 cup 15 4
Jam, jelly 1 tablespoon 10 2 1/2
Donut 1 10 2 1/2
Honey 1 teaspoon 5 1
Brown sugar 1 teaspoon 5 1
Table sugar 1 teaspoon 5 1in water (insoluble fiber) and those that do (soluble fiber).
Insoluble fiber, also called roughage, includes cellulose,
hemicellulose, and lignin, found in vegetables, nuts, and
some cereal grains.  Soluble fibers include pectin, foundin fruits, and gums, found in some grains and legumes (seesidebar:  Plant Fibers:  Insoluble and Soluble, below).
Fiber-rich diets, which  include ample amounts of
whole-grain foods, legumes, and fresh vegetables and fruits,
have been linked with a lower risk of several diseases.Nutrition scientists are just beginning to understand the roleof dietary fiber in maintaining health.  Fiber appears tosweep the digestive system free of unwanted substancesthat could promote cancer and to maintain regularity andprevent disorders of the digestive tract.  Fiber also providesa sense of fullness that may help reduce overeating and
unwanted weight gain.  Diets that are rich in fiber andcomplex carbohydrates have been associated with lowerserum cholesterol and a lower risk for high blood pressure,coronary artery disease, and some types of cancer.  But does
this mean that it’s okay just to take a fiber pill? No! Rather,the studies that have shown the beneficial effects of a high-fiber diet (containing 25 to 30 grams of fiber per day) havebeen those in which the dietary fiber is in the form of fruits,vegetables, whole grains, and cereals.  These and otherstudies suggest that not only the fiber in these foods but also20Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Insoluble Fiber —also known as roughage
These fibers hold onto water, add bulk, and promote movement through the intestine.
CELLULOSE HEMICELLULOSE LIGNIN
Whole-wheat flour Bran Woody portions of plants:  
Bran Whole grains such as stem of broccoli, carrotsNuts Vegetables WheatVegetables Fruits Fruits with edible seeds, such as raspberries
and strawberries
Soluble Fiber —dissolves in water and becomes gummy
These types of fibers can help lower blood cholesterol and blood glucose.
GUMS PECTIN
Oats Apples
Legumes and dried beans Citrus fruits: oranges, grapefruitsBarley Carrots
The wheat kernel (or seed) consists of the fiber-rich outer bran
layer; the inner endosperm, which is composed of starch, proteins,and B vitamins and is made into flour; and the germ, which isground and sold as wheat germ, a rich source of vitamin E.
PLANT FIBERS :  INSOLUBLE AND SOLUBLEwheat berry
brush
endosperm
germbranChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 21
the vitamins, minerals, and other compounds they contain
contribute to their health-promoting effects.  
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans (see Chapter 1,
page 8) recommend that we obtain most (about 60%) ofour calories from carbohydrates, preferably complexcarbohydrates, in the form of foods such as whole grains,fruits, vegetables, and legumes.  These  foods are goodsources of fiber, essential vitamins, minerals, and other
phytochemicals and are also more likely to be low in fat.
The average American today consumes only about a
third of the recommended amount of fiber.  To obtain asmany of the potential benefits as possible, you need toobtain complex carbohydrates and fiber from various foodsources.  Although studies indicate that our intake ofcarbohydrates is increasing, the contribution of whole-grainfoods remains small, partly because identifying whole-grainfoods can be confusing.  For ideas on what whole-grainfoods to look for in your supermarket, see the sidebarsWhere Are the Whole Grains? and Finding Fiber, this page.  
Foods that are naturally good sources of fiber or have
fiber added are allowed to make claims on their labelsregarding their fiber content.  What do the terms used todescribe fiber content mean?  When you see the phrase
“high fiber” on a food label, it means that 1 serving (definedon the Nutrition Facts panel) of the food contains 5 grams of
fiber or more per serving.  A food that contains 2.5 to 4.9grams of fiber in a serving is allowed to call itself a “goodsource” of fiber, and a food label that says “more fiber” or“added fiber” has at least 2.5 grams more fiber per serving.  
Sugar Substitutes
For the same reason that people have recently sought sub-stitutes for fat, noncaloric sugar substitutes became popularin the 1960s as people began to try to control their weight.Sugar substitutes are of two basic types:  intense sweetenersand sugar alcohols.FOOD SERVING FIBER
(GRAMS )
Apple with skin 1 medium 4
Banana 1 medium 3Orange juice 3/4 cup Less than 1Orange 1 medium 3Strawberries 1 cup halves 4Broccoli, raw 1/2 cup 1Broccoli, cooked 1/2 cup 2Carrot, raw 1 medium 2Potato, baked with skin 1 medium 4Spinach, cooked 1/2 cup 2Spinach, raw 1 cup 1Tomato 1 medium 1Lentils, cooked 1/2 cup 8Beans, baked 1/2 cup 7White bread 1 slice Less than 1Whole-wheat bread 1 slice 2Pumpernickel bread 1 slice 2Rice, white 1/2 cup Less than 1Rice, brown 1/2 cup 2Bran cereal, 100% 1/3 cup 8Corn flakes 1 cup 1Oatmeal, cooked from 1/3 cup dry 3Popcorn, air popped 1 cup 1Spaghetti, cooked, 1/2 cup 1
regular
Spaghetti, cooked, 1/2 cup 3
whole wheat
Hummus 2 tablespoons 2 
(chickpea dip)FINDING FIBER
How much fiber will you find in the foods you eat? Whole-grain bread products are labeled as whole grain,whole wheat, or rye.  
In contrast, bread products labeled as made with
wheat, cracked wheat, sev en-grain, multi-grain, stone-
ground wheat, or any of several other names containmostly refined flour and lack the health-promoting 
effects of a whole-grain product.WHERE ARE THE WHOLE GRAINS ?
Intense sweeteners are also called non-nutritive sweet-
eners, because they are so much sweeter than sugar thatthe small amounts needed to sweeten foods contributevirtually no calories to the foods.  These sweeteners also donot promote tooth decay.  Currently,  four such intensesweeteners are available, both for use in processed foods andfor home consumption.  The U.S. Food and DrugAdministration (FDA) has set “acceptable daily intakes”(ADI) for these sweeteners.  The ADI is the amount thatcan be consumed daily over a lifetime without risk.One of these sweeteners is aspartame (NutraSweet brand).
It is manufactured by chemically modifying the naturally
occurring amino acid phenylalanine.  This sweetener can’t
be used by people with phenylketonuria (a rare congenitaldisorder that disrupts the body’s ability to metabolize phenyl-alanine and can result in severe nerve damage).  Despiteextensive safety testing showing aspar tame to be safe, its
use has been implicated by the popular pr ess in everything
from headaches to loss of attentiveness.  At this time, thereis no scientific validity to these claims.  Aspartame is not heatstable, so it can’t be added to foods that will be cooked orbaked, although it can be added to some foods (such ascoffee) after heating.
Saccharin, a second non-nutritive sweetener, was asso-
ciated with cancer in mice when it was fed in very largeamounts.  However, further studies have found no linksbetween saccharin and human cancer.  This recently ledthe U.S. government to remove it from its list of potentialcancer-causing chemicals.  Although saccharin is heat stable,in some cases it cannot satisfactorily be used in baking
because it lacks the bulk of sugar.
Acesulfame K (Sunnett), a third intense sweetener, was
approved by the FDA in 1998 for use in soft drinks,although it was used in various food products before that.About 200 times sweeter than sugar, this noncaloric prod-uct has been extensively tested for safety.  After reviewingmore than 90 studies, the FDA deemed the sweetener safein amounts up to the equivalent of a 132-pound personconsuming 143 pounds of sugar annually (an AcceptableDaily Intake of 15 milligrams per kilogram of body weight;1 kilogram is about 2.2 pounds).  Because it is not metab-
olized, acesulfame K can be used safely by people with diabetes.
The sweetener is more heat stable than aspartame, main-taining its structure and flavor at oven temperatures more
than 390° Fahrenheit and under a wide range of storage
conditions.  Like saccharin and aspartame, acesulfame Klacks bulk, so its use in home baking requires recipe mod-ification.  The flavor of acesulfame K has been described as22Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Foods contain a variety of carbohy-
drates, from simple to complex.  Fruits,vegetables, grains, and dairy productsall contain carbohydrate.clean and quickly perceptible, although disagreement exists
about whether it leaves an aftertaste.  
A fourth intense sweetener, sucralose (Splenda), was
approved by the FDA in 1998 for sale and use in com-mercial food products.  Sucralose is made by chemicallymodifying sucrose (table sugar) to a non-nutritive, non-caloric powder that is about 600 times sweeter than sugar.Before approving sucralose, the FDA reviewed more than110 research studies conducted in both human and animalsubjects.  It concluded that the sweetener is safe forconsumption by adults, children, and pregnant and breast-feeding women in amounts equivalent to the consump-tion of about 48 pounds of sugar annually (an AcceptableDaily Intake of 5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight).People with diabetes may also safely consume the sweetener,because it is not metabolized like sugar.  In addition,sucralose is highly stable to heat and so will not lose itssweetness when used in recipes that require prolongedexposure to high temperatures (such as baking) or whenstored for long periods.  The product is currently availablein the form of a powdered sugar substitute and in somecommercial baked goods, jams and jellies, sweet sauces andsyrups, pastry fillings, condiments, processed fruits, fruitjuice drinks, and beverages, and its use is approved forvarious additional products.  However, use of sucralose inhome baking is expected to be limited by its low bulk incomparison with table sugar.
Foods containing intense sweeteners should not be given
to infants or children, who need energy to grow and tosustain their high activity levels.  Foods that contain intensesweeteners and lack any nutritive value also should notreplace nutrient-dense foods in your diet.
The sugar alcohols xylitol, mannitol, and sorbitol
contain less than 4 calories per gram.  These sugar alcoholsare digested so slowly that most are simply eliminated.Unfortunately, excessive consumption can cause diarrheaor bloating in some people.
So-called “natural” sweeteners provide the same number
of calories as sugar and have acquired the reputation, albeitincorrectly, of being healthier than sugar, because they seemmore natural than processed table sugar.  These includehoney, maple syrup and sugar, date sugar, molasses, andgrape juice concentrate.  In reality, these sweeteners containno more vitamins or minerals than table sugar.  Honeymay harbor small amounts of the spores of the bacteriathat produce botulism toxin and should never be given tobabies younger than 1 year.  The Bottom Line on Carbohydrates
Carbohydrates—sugars and starches—are the main sourceof fuel for our bodies.  When we choose carbohydrate-richfoods, our best bets are fruits, vegetables, whole grains,and legumes, because these foods are also rich sources ofhealth-promoting vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, andfiber.  But like all calories, extra calories from carbohy-drates beyond those we need to replenish the energy we burnare converted to fat and stored in our fat cells.  Non-caloricsweeteners seem to be a safe alternative to sugar for mostpeople, but the foods that contain them are often nutri-
tionally empty and their use in home cooking is limited. The
so-called natural sweeteners are no better for you than sugar.
PROTEIN
Protein is an essential part of our diets.  Proteins are large,
complex molecules resembling tangled strings of beads.Each of the “beads” on the string is one of a group of smallermolecules called amino acids.  Amino acids are composedof carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, and somecontain sulfur.  
Using the amino acids from the pr otein you eat, the
body makes more than 50,000 different pr oteins.  These
proteins are the main structural elements of our skin, hair,nails, cell membranes, muscles, and connective tissue.
Collagen, the main protein in our skin, provides a barrierto the invasion of foreign substances.  Proteins in cell mem-branes determine what substances can enter and exit cells.Our muscles, which contain some 65 percent of the body’s
total protein, give our bodies their shape and strength.
Proteins in connective tissues such as tendons, ligaments,and cartilage enable our skeletons to function, form inter-nal organs, and hold the organs in place.  Proteins in theblood carry oxygen to all cells and remove carbon dio xide
and other waste products. The proteins in muscle,
connective tissue, and blood make up most of the proteinin the body.  Other proteins called enzymes accelerate meta-bolic processes, and still other proteins and amino acidsare hormones and neurochemicals, the substances thatdeliver signals throughout the body and regulate all meta-bolic processes.  
During periods of growth, our bodies  must manufac-
ture and store large amounts of protein.  Therefore, therequirement for protein in our diets is higher during growth.But even when we are not growing, each of the uniqueChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 23proteins in the body has a finite lifespan and must be replaced
continuously.  So the need for protein never ends.
Dietary Protein and Body Protein
The thousands of proteins that make up our bodies are
assembled on demand from some 20 different amino acids.What are these amino acids, and where do they come from?The protein from the meat we ate last night is not directlyincorporated into our muscles.  The proteins in the foods
we eat are digested first into small “peptides.”  Some ofthese peptides are further digested into their constituentamino acids.  Only amino acids and small peptides areactually absorbed by the small intestine into the blood-stream.  They are then delivered to the liver, muscles, brain,and other organs, where they are used to make new proteinsor converted to other amino acids needed by those organs.Of the 20 amino acids that make up all proteins, 9 are
considered “essential” because they cannot be made in ourbodies and must be obtained from the foods we eat.  Of theremaining 11, some are essential for infants and persons withcertain diseases (see sidebar: Amino Acid Classification, page25).  The rest of the amino acids are consider ed “nonessential,”
because our bodies can make them in adequate amounts,
if necessary.  Nevertheless, they are easily supplied by eat-
ing a well-balanced diet that includes a variety of foods.
Most foods contain protein.  Some foods are better
sources of protein than others.  “Complete” proteins are
those that contain all the essential amino acids in amounts
needed to synthesize our body’s proteins.  The best sources
of complete protein are lean meats and poultry, fish, low-fat
dairy products, and eggs (see Part II, High-Protein Foods,
page 291, and Dairy Foods, page 345).24Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Lean meats (including poultry and fish)
and dairy products aren’t the only foods that contain protein.  By eating a variety of foods, including grains and legumes, you are likely to meet your needs.The grains and cereals group of foods, which form the
base of the Food Guide Pyramid, are excellent sources of
protein, but because these proteins often lack one or more
essential amino acids, they are called “incomplete” proteins.For example, the proteins in corn are low in the essentialamino acids lysine and tryptophan, and wheat is low inlysine.  In contrast, legumes tend to be rich in lysine but a
bit low in methionine.  Among the legumes, soybeanscontain the most complete protein.
Does this mean you must eat meat, eggs, and dairy
products (foods of animal origin) to get all the amino acids
you need?  Not at all.  By eating a variety of different foods,including grains and legumes, you are likely to get all theamino acids you need and in the correct amounts.  Peopleof many cultures and vegans (vegetarians who eat no foodsof animal origin) get adequate amounts and types of proteinby eating various combinations of plant proteins includingbeans, corn, rice, and  other cereal grains.  Although it wasonce thought necessary to combine these foods at the samemeal, nutrition experts now agree that they can be eaten atvarious times throughout the day.
When we eat grains and legumes, rather than foods of
animal origin (a more frequent source of protein in ourdiets), we gain additional health benefits.  Whole-grainfoods and legumes are rich in vitamins, minerals, fiber,and other substances that optimize health.  If that doesnot seem like reason enough to make the trade, grains andlegumes lack the high levels of saturated fat present in foodsof animal origin, which, as you will learn below, are linkedto many diseases.
Contrary to popular belief, simply eating more dietary
protein, in excess of recommended amounts, will not resultin bigger muscles.  Our bodies do not store excess protein.If we eat more protein than our bodies need to replenish theamino acids we have used during the day, the excess aminoacids are converted to, and stored as, fat.  Dietary protein,like carbohydrates, supplies about 4 calories of energy pergram.  Because our requirements for protein mainly dependon our body’s size, our need for protein increases duringtimes of rapid growth.  Therefore, the recommendations forprotein are age-dependent and are slightly higher for preg-nant and breastfeeding women than for other adults (see theAppendix:  Dietary Reference Intakes, page 421).  The rec-ommended allowances ensure an adequate protein intakeby nearly all healthy people. Never theless, many
Americans typically consume twice this amount, often
in the form of meat and dair y products that are high insaturated fat, which increases the risk for coronary artery
disease and some forms of cancer.
What if we eat too little protein?  Few Americans are at
risk of eating too little protein.  However, individuals onseverely restricted diets, those who are unable to eat, andthose whose needs are increased because of illness or traumamay experience protein deficiency.  To replenish the poolsof essential amino acids that have been depleted, in order tomake critical proteins such as enzymes and hormones, thebody of a protein-deficient person begins to rob proteinfrom muscle by digesting that protein to its constituentamino acids.  Because muscle is needed for various vitalfunctions (for example, diaphragm muscles for breathingand heart muscles for pumping our blood), the loss of largeamounts of muscle protein can be fatal.  Fortunately, thevast majority of people, even those who engage in regular,rigorous endurance exercise, can easily meet their need forprotein by eating a balanced diet based on the Food GuidePyramid.Chapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 25
AMINO ACIDCLASSIFICATION
Of the 20 amino acids that make up all proteins, 
only 9 are considered “essential” in our diets 
because they cannot be made by our bodies and 
must be obtained from the foods we eat.
ESSENTIAL IN ESSENTIAL IN OUR NONESSENTIAL
OURDIETS DIETSUNDER SOME IN OURDIETS
CIRCUMSTANCES
Histadine Arginine Alanine
Isoleucine Cysteine* AsparagineLeucine Tyrosine † Aspartic acid
Lysine Glutamic acidMethionine GlutaminePhenylalanine GlycineThreonine ProlineT ryptophan SerineValine
*Cysteine can be synthesized from the essential amino acid
methionine.
†Tyrosine can be synthesized from phenylalanine when supplied
in adequate amounts.The Bottom Line on Protein
Adequate protein is critical for growth, metabolism, and
health, but eating more protein than we need will not buildbigger muscles.  Conversely, excess protein is converted tofat.  Foods of animal origin are high in protein but may alsobe high in total and saturated fat.  Lean meats and dairyproducts, fish, legumes, and grains are the best sources ofprotein.
FATS
It’s difficult to read a newspaper or listen to the eveningnews without hearing something new about fat and itsconnection with disease.  Diets that are high in fat arestrongly associated with an increased prevalence of obesity andan increased risk of developing coronar y arter y disease, high
blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, and certain types of cancer.Health authorities recommend that we reduce our totalfat intake to about 30 percent of total calories.  They alsorecommend that we limit our intake of saturated fat (thetype of fat most often found in meat and dairy products)to less than 10 percent of our fat calories and try to be surethat the fat we do eat is mostly the monounsaturated or
polyunsaturated type.  These changes have been shown to
decrease our risk for several diseases.
Fat as a Nutrient
Fat is an essential nutrient, because our bodies require smallamounts of several fatty acids from foods (the so-calledessential fatty acids) to build cell membranes and to makeseveral indispensable hormones, namely , the steroid
hormones testosterone, progesterone, and estrogen, and the
hormone-like prostaglandins.  Dietary fats also permit onegroup of vitamins, the fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, andK), to be absorbed from foods during the process ofdigestion.  Fats help these vitamins to be transportedthrough the blood to their destinations.  The fat in ourbodies also provides protective insulation and shock absorp-tion for vital organs.
As a macronutrient, fat is a source of energy (calories).
The fat in food supplies about 9 calories per gram, morethan twice the number of calories as the same amount ofprotein or carbohydrate.  As a result, high-fat foods areconsidered “calorie-dense” energy sources.  Any dietary fatthat is not used by the body for energy is stored in fat cells(adipocytes), the constituents of fat (adipose) tissue (seeChapter 3, Obesity, page 47).  The Dietary Guidelines for
Americans recommend that no more than 30 percent of ourcalories should come from fat, and only a third of thatshould be saturated fat.
Sorting Out the Fats
Our health is influenced by both the amount and the type
of fat that we eat.  Fats are molecules; they are classifiedaccording to the chemical structures of their componentparts.  But you don’t need to be a chemist to understand theconnection between the various fats in foods and the effect
these fats have on the risk for disease.  Some definitions will help.
Dietary fats, or triglycerides, are the fats in foods.  They
are molecules made of fatty acids (chain-like molecules ofcarbon, hydrogen, and oxygen) linked in groups of three toa backbone called glycerol.  When we eat foods that contain
fat, the fatty acids are separated from their glycerol backbone
during the process of digestion.
Fatty acids are either saturated or unsaturated, terms
that refer to the relative number of hydrogen atoms attachedto a carbon chain.  Fat in the foods that we eat is made upof mixtures of fatty acids—some fats may be mostly unsat-urated, whereas others are mostly saturated (see sidebar:A Comparison of Fats, page 27).
Monounsaturated fatty acids are fatty acids that lack
one pair of hydrogen atoms on their carbon chain.  Foodsrich in monounsaturated fatty acids include canola, nut,and olive oils; they are liquid at room temperature.  A dietthat provides the primary source of fat as monounsatu-rated fat (frequently in the form of olive oil) and includesonly small amounts of animal products has been linked toa lower risk of coronary artery disease.  This type of dietis commonly eaten by people who live in the region sur-rounding the Mediterranean Sea (see Chapter 1, page 14).  
Polyunsaturated fatty acids lack two or more pairs of
hydrogen atoms on their carbon chain.  Safflower, sun-flower, sesame, corn, and soybean oil are among the sourcesof polyunsaturated fats (which are also liquid at roomtemperature).  The essential fatty acids, linoleic andlinolenic acid, are polyunsaturated fats.  Like monoun-saturated fats, polyunsaturated fats lower blood choles-terol levels and are an acceptable substitute for saturatedfats in the diet.
Saturated fatty acids, or saturated fats, consist of fatty
acids that are “saturated” with hydrogen.  These fats arefound primarily in foods of animal origin—meat, poultry,dairy products, and eggs—and in coconut, palm, and26Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionpalm kernel oil (often called “tropical oils”).  Foods that are
high in saturated fats are firm at room temperature.
Because a high intake of saturated fats increases your risk
of coronary artery disease, nutrition experts recommend that
less than 10 percent of your calories should come from sat-urated fats.  To find out how to calculate your fat allowance,see the sidebar Recommended Fat Intake, page 28, and todetermine the total and saturated fat contents of somefoods, see the sidebar Where’s the Fat? page 28.
Omega-3 fatty acids are a class of polyunsaturated fatty
acids found in fish (tuna, mackerel, and salmon, in particular)and some plant oils such as canola (rapeseed) oil.  Thesefatty acids have made the news because of the observation thatpeople who frequently eat fish appear to be at lower risk forcoronary artery disease.  Omega-3 fatty acids also seem to
play a role in your ability to fight infection.
Hydrogenated fats are the result of a process in which
unsaturated fats are treated to make them solid and morestable at room temperature.  The hydrogenation process,which involves the addition of hydrogen atoms, actuallyresults in a saturated fat.  T rans-fatty acids are created byhydrogenation.  An increase in consumption of these fats is
a concern because they have been associated with an increased
risk of coronary artery disease.  Hydrogenated fat is a commoningredient in stick and tub margarine, commercial bakedgoods, snack foods, and other processed foods.  
Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that is a necessary
constituent of cell membranes and serves as a precursor for bile
acids (essential for digestion), vitamin D, and an importantgroup of hormones (the steroid hormones).  Our livers canmake virtually all of the cholesterol needed for these essen-
tial functions.  Dietary cholesterol is found only in foodsof animal origin, that is, meat, poultry, milk, butter, cheese,and eggs.  Foods of plant origin, that is, fruits, vegetables,nuts, seeds, legumes, grains, and the oils derived from them,
do not contain cholesterol.  Eggs are the food most often
associated with cholesterol, because the average large eggcontains about 210 milligrams of cholesterol (only in theyolk), and the recommended daily cholesterol intake is300 mg or less.  However, for most people, meat contributesa higher proportion of cholesterol to the diet than do eggs,because cholesterol is found in both the lean and fat portionsChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 27
32%
62%
6%
Canola
oilSafflower
oilSunflower
oil*Corn oil Olive oil Soybean
oilPeanut
oilChicken
fatLard Palm oil Beef fat Butterfat Coconut
oil79%
12%
9%68%
21%
9%62%
25%
13%9%
77%
14%60%
25%
15%34%
48%
18%22%
47%
31%12%
47%
41%10%
39%
51%4%4
44%
52%5%
31%
64%2%
6%
92%A C OMPARISON OF FATS
*Total is not 100% because of the presence of other, minor fat compounds.Percent polyunsaturated fat Percent monounsaturated fat Percent saturated fatof meat.  Shellfish have acquired an undeserved reputa-
tion for being high in cholesterol.  Their cholesterol andtotal fat contents are actually comparatively low (see side-bar:  Cholesterol Content of Foods, page 29).
Fat Substitutes
To appeal to our desire for lower-fat substitutes for ourfavorite high-fat foods, the commercial food industry hasdeveloped low- or lower-fat versions of many foods usingvarious fat replacers.  Until recently, fat replacers alwaysconsisted of proteins or carbohydrates, such as starches orgels, but the kinds of foods that could be prepared withthese fat replacers were limited by their inability to withstandthe high temperatures of frying.  In 1996, after a longperiod of development, safety testing, and governmentalreview, the first non-caloric fat, olestra, was approved by theFDA for use in the manufacture of savory (non-sweet) snacks(such as crackers and chips).  Because olestra is a modifiedfat, it is the first heat-resistant fat substitute, which allowsit to be used to make fried foods.  In addition, olestra givesfoods the flavor and creamy “mouth feel” of high-fat foods.  
FDA approval of olestra was controversial for two reasons.
First, this artificial ingredient, if approved and accepted,would be the first in history to be consumed in quantitiescomparable to the quantities of fat, carbohydrates, andproteins we currently consume from food sources.  In otherwords, these novel, previously unknown substances couldbecome major parts of the diets of some people, and there28Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
CALORIES TOTAL FAT(GRAMS )S ATURATED FAT(GRAMS )
Most women & older adults About 1,600 53 Less than 17
Most men, active women,
teen girls & children About 2,200 73 Less than 24
Active men & teen boys About 2,800 93 Less than 31
Note:  These are guidelines for healthy individuals.  If you have heart disease or high blood cholesterol or triglyceride level s,
or if you are overweight, ask your health care professional to recommend the types of fat and amounts most appropriate for you.RECOMMENDED FATINTAKE
Health experts recommend consuming no more than 30 percent of our calories from fat—with no more than 
10 percent from saturated fat.  Here is a chart to help you determine how much fat you should eat.
FOOD TOTAL FATSATURATED CALORIES
(GRAMS )F AT(GRAMS )
Butter (2 Tblsp ) 23 14 200
Porterhouse steak (3 oz) 21 8 270Peanuts (1/4 cup) 18 3 210Cake donut (1 large) 16 3 300Blue cheese dressing 
(2 Tblsp) 16 3 150
Peanut butter (2 Tblsp) 16 3 190Chocolate/peanut/
nougat candy bar (2 oz) 14 5 270
Batter-fried chicken 
thigh (3 oz meat) 14 4 240
Croissant, cheese  (2 oz) 12 6 235Croissant, plain (2 oz) 12 7 230Ice cream 
(1/2 cup rich vanilla ) 12 7 180
Cream cheese (2 Tblsp ) 10 6 100Milk, whole (1 cup) 8 5 150Milk, 2% (1 cup) 5 3 120Sour cream (2 Tblsp) 5 3 50Half-and-half (2 Tblsp) 3 2 40WHERE’S THE FAT?
Foods That May Pack More Fat Than You Thinkwould be no historical experience to tell us what the sub-
stances might do in our bodies.  Some scientists predicted
that the substance would cause serious gastrointestinal
complaints despite controlled studies demonstrating itssafety.  However, in the first year of availability of olestra-containing foods, the predicted intestinal problems were notsignificant.  Tests in which volunteers ate large quantitiesof olestra-containing potato chips or regular potato chipswithout knowing which type they were eating showed nodifferences in gastrointestinal complaints between the twogroups.  Second, tests of olestra showed that it inhibits the
absorption of  fat-soluble compounds (vitamins A, D, E,
and K and some carotenoids) from foods eaten at the same
time as the olestra-containing foods, whereas it has noeffect on the absorption of other nutrients or on the body’s
stores of f at-soluble vitamins.  To compensate for this effect
of olestra on fat-soluble vitamin absorption, foods pre-pared with olestra have small amounts of these vitaminsadded to them.  At this writing, the range of foods that caninclude olestra as a fat substitute is quite narrow.  Somequestions do remain about the long-term safety of the prod-uct, although long- term studies in young, growing animals
and several studies in humans have shown no negative
effects.
How should you decide whether to include foods with
fat replacers in your eating plan, and how much of thesefoods do you include?  From a health standpoint, smallamounts of olestra-containing foods appear to be harmless.But from a purely nutritional standpoint, most foods that
contain fat replacers are snack foods essentially devoid ofnutritional benefit.  In addition, these foods are not calorie-free. Many remain high in calories, and some foods thatcontain carbohydrate fat replacers are even higher in caloriesthan their higher-fat counterparts, so they are still calorie-dense, nutritionally poor foods.  It’s fine to choose smallamounts of these foods occasionally, but better low-fatsnack choices include fruits, vegetables, nonfat yogurt, andwhole-grain pretzels and breads.
The Bottom Line on Fats
Dietary fat is a source of energy, but high-fat diets, especiallydiets high in saturated fat, increase the risk of gainingexcessive amounts of weight and of developing diabetes,coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, and severaltypes of cancer.  This increased risk is the reason that healthexperts encourage us to reduce our intake of total and sat-urated fats by:• increasing our intake of fruits, vegetables, and whole-
grain foods, which are naturally low in fat, and prepar-ing them with a minimum of added fats
• consuming low-fat dairy products such as nonfat milk
and yogurt and reduced-fat cheeses
• limiting our intake of red meat, poultry, and fish to 5
to 7 ounces daily
• choosing lean cuts of red meat and poultry, removing
the skin before eating poultry, and preparing the meatwith a method that uses little or no additional fats
• choosing some fish that is high in omega-3 fatty acids
and preparing it with little or no added fat
THEMICRONUTRIENTS :
VITAMINS AND MINERALS
Vitamins and minerals are required by every process in yourbody.  Unlike the macronutrients, vitamins and mineralsby themselves do not contain energy.  Instead, they workwith the energy-rich macronutrients—carbohydrates, pro-tein, and fats—and with each other to help your body torelease, use, and store the energy from those macronutrients.
Vitamins
Vitamins are small but complex molecules.  In additionto helping us to use and store energy from macronutrients,they assist the molecules responsible for vision to performtheir function, they serve as regulatory hormones for boneformation, and they act as antioxidants to preserve cellularChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 29
FOOD SERVING SIZE CHOLESTEROL
(IN MILLIGRAMS )
Chicken without 
the skin, lean beef or pork 3 oz 70-80
Egg 1 About 210King crab 3 oz 45Lobster 3 oz 60Organ meat (liver) 3 oz 330Shrimp 3 oz 165CHOLESTEROL CONTENT OF FOODS
Cholesterol is found only in animal products.  Below is a list
of common foods and their cholesterol content.function (see Vitamins and Minerals as Antioxidants, page
31).
Each of the vitamins was discovered and its require-
ment determined by its ability to cure and prevent aparticular disease or group of symptoms.  For example, thediscovery that a substance in limes could cure and preventthe disease called scurvy led to the discovery that our bodiesrequire  vitamin C and that scurvy is the result of vitaminC deficiency.  Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs) are beingestablished for each vitamin.  They describe the amount ofthe vitamin that should prevent symptoms of deficiencyin most people, with a little extra added.
Today, the diseases that result from vitamin deficiencies
rarely occur except in severely malnourished individualsor in those with certain medical conditions.  Rather, in avirtual nutrition revolution, research has progressed beyondthe identification and treatment of simple nutrientdeficiencies to the realization that some of the vitamins(or foods that contain them) may help maintain health bypreventing the development of chronic diseases such ascancer and heart disease in otherwise well-nourished people.  
The Food Guide Pyramid is based on the DRIs.  It tells
us the number of servings, in each group of foods, that willsupply us with the recommended allowance of most of the
vitamins.  Nutrition research also has begun to support the
idea that a few of the vitamins and minerals, notably those
referred to as antioxidants (see Vitamins and Minerals as
Antioxidants, page 31), may provide even more benefit iftaken in quantities somewhat greater than the recom-mended amounts.  This idea raises some questions.  Is theresuch a thing as too much of a vitamin?  Should these extravitamins come fr om food, or is it okay to take a supplement
if you just can’t eat that much?  And, should the recom-
mended amounts for these vitamins be increased?  Althoughthere really is no answer to the last question yet, the answersto the first two questions depend on the type of vitamin.As we begin our discussion of vitamins, we want to empha-size that although it is virtually impossible to overdose onvitamins from food alone, some vitamin supplements def-initely offer too much of a good thing (see sidebar:  WhatAre Daily Values? this page, and Supplement Sense, page38).
The 14 essential vitamins can be classified into two
groups:  water-soluble and fat-soluble.  They are classified onthe basis of their molecular structure, which determinesthe way the vitamins are carried in food and in the blood-stream and the manner in which they are stored in yourbody.  The text that follows describes which vitamins fall
into which category and what that means for your health.
Water-Soluble Vitamins
There are 10 water-soluble vitamins.  The B complex vitaminshave various roles, some of which involve their action, in
concert, to regulate the body’s use of energy from food.  Folic
acid is an important factor in the regulation of growth.  Duringthe early stages of pregnancy, folic acid is important forpreventing a type of birth defect known as a neural tubedefect.  Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, functionsin various ways, many of which seem to be related to itsantioxidant properties (see the Appendix:  A Quick Look—Vitamins, Their Functions and Food Sources, page 430).
As their name implies, water-soluble vitamins dissolve
in water.  The body strives to maintain the optimal level ofeach of the water-soluble vitamins for its immediate needs.Surplus water-soluble vitamins are excreted in the urineand through perspiration, because they are not stored in
the body to any appreciable extent.  W ater-soluble vitamins
must be replenished almost daily, preferably by eating foodsthat are rich in these vitamins.  Fruits, vegetables, grains, andbeans are excellent sources of the water-soluble vitamins(with the exception of vitamin B
12, which is found only in
foods of animal origin).  However, if you choose to use30Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Have you ever wondered what “% Daily Value” means on
the Nutrition Facts label? How does it relate to theDietary Reference Intakes (DRIs)?  As you may recallfrom Chapter 1, the DRIs, set by the Food and NutritionBoard of the National Academy of Sciences, are theamounts of each nutrient recommended for most healthypeople.  Because DRIs are both sex- and age-specific,each nutrient has a range of DRIs.  To make it easier toshow how a food meets your recommended allowance forsome of the more critical nutrients, the Food and DrugAdministration has established a Daily V alue for each
nutrient, which is appro ximately the highest recommended
amount for that nutrient.  The “% Daily Value” reportedon the Nutrition Facts label is based on a maintenancecalorie level of 2,000 calories daily.  If your maintenancecalorie level is 1,500 calories, your daily values may be abit lower, so the nutrient contents of the food satisfy ahigher percentage of your daily value.WHATAREDAILYVALUES ?multivitamins or single-nutrient supplements to get your
water-soluble vitamins, moderation is advised (see
Supplement Sense, page 38), because high doses of several
of the B vitamins can have harmful effects, and high dosesof vitamin C may contribute to the formation of kidneystones.
Fat-Soluble Vitamins
The fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E, and K, are found in thefood you eat,  absorbed into your bloodstream, and carriedthroughout your body attached to fat molecules.  Becausefat-soluble vitamins can be stored in the body, they do notneed to be replenished on a daily basis.  Vitamins A and Dare stored in the liver, and reserve supplies may be sufficientfor as long as 6 months.  Reserves of vitamin K, however,may be sufficient for only a few weeks, and the supply ofvitamin E can last somewhere between several days andseveral months.  
If taken in excess, usually in the form of a supplement,
fat-soluble vitamins can accumulate in the body.  Largestores of vitamins A and D can actually become harmful.Fortunately, it is difficult to get an excess of fat-solublevitamins from food.  For example, beta-carotene, themolecule found in some foods of plant origin that givescarrots and squash their yellow-orange color, is convertedto vitamin A in the body.  But because the chemical reactionthat converts beta-carotene to vitamin A is carefullyregulated, it is nearly impossible to get vitamin A toxicityfrom eating fruits and vegetables.  Foods that providevitamins D, E, and K would need to be consumed in suchquantity that achieving toxic levels of these nutrients ishighly unlikely.  However, a high intake of vitamin K-containing foods may contribute to abnormal bleeding inpeople who are receiving blood-thinning (anticoagulant)medication.  Therefore, it is important to keep foods that arehigh in vitamin K relatively constant.  Vitamin E supplementsalso are not recommended for these individuals.
The recent development of diet drugs that work by
inhibiting your body’s absorption of fat has raised concernsabout the possibility that the use of such drugs could leadto deficiencies in the fat-soluble vitamins.  Preliminaryresults suggest that when taken as directed, these drugsmay interfere with the absorption of beta-carotene andvitamin D from foods.  If these findings are confirmed,persons who take these prescribed drugs to manage theirweight also will be required to take a daily multiple vitaminthat contains the fat-soluble vitamin.As mentioned in the discussion of fat substitutes, early
research on the fat substitute olestra showed that eatingolestra-containing snack foods interferes with the body’sability to absorb some of the fat-soluble vitamins from theother foods we eat.  To compensate for this effect, the man-ufacturers of snack foods that contain olestra were requiredto fortify these products with fat-soluble vitamins.  Thus,eating olestra-containing snack foods does not seem to cre-ate a significant risk for deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins(unless you consistently choose to eat them in place ofmore nutritious foods).
To learn about the many roles of vitamins, how much
of each of them you need, and the best food sources foreach one, see the Appendix:  A Quick Look—Vitamins,Their Functions and Food Sources,  page 430.
Minerals
Minerals are just what the term indicates—elements found
in the earth.  Like the vitamins, minerals play a multitudeof roles in our bodies.  Unlike the vitamins, some minerals—calcium and phosphorus—have a structural function.  Theseminerals are the main components of our bones and teeth.Calcium has an additional critical role.  Along with severalother major minerals—sodium, chlorine, potassium, andmagnesium—calcium is a regulator of cell function.  Theminerals sodium, chloride, and potassium (also referred toas electrolytes) are responsible for maintaining the balanceof fluids inside and outside of cells and, along with calcium,controlling the movement of nerve impulses.
T race minerals are those that your body needs in smaller
amounts, usually less than 20 milligrams daily.  Theseinclude iron, chromium, cobalt, copper, fluoride, iodine,manganese, molybdenum, selenium, and zinc.  Themineral iron forms the active part of hemoglobin, theprotein in your blood that delivers oxygen to differentsites in your body and picks up carbon dioxide.  AlthoughDRIs have been established for some of the trace minerals,those for which too little is known to establish preciseDRIs have a recommended Adequate Intake (AI) (seethe Appendix:  A Quick Look—Minerals, Their Functions
and Food Sources, page 432).
Vitamins and Minerals as Antioxidants
Several vitamins and minerals are considered antioxidants.
These include vitamins E and C, beta-carotene (which canbe converted to vitamin A), other carotenoids (some maybe converted to vitamin A and also play a role in cell devel-Chapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 31opment), and the minerals selenium, copper, zinc, and
manganese.  What are antioxidants?  What do they do?
Every cell in our body needs oxygen to use the nutrients
that food provides.  However, when oxygen is used by cells,by-products called free radicals are formed.  If allowed toaccumulate, these free radicals can damage tissues, cells,and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA, the genetic material ofcells).  The process of oxidative damage can be observed asthe browning that occurs when sliced apples or potatoes areexposed to the air or the rancid flavor that butter andcooking oils develop when stored for long periods.Environmental pollutants such as cigarette smoke andultraviolet light from the sun also contribute to the for-mation of free radicals in our bodies.  Although not proved,studies suggest that excess free-radical production canincrease the risk of cancer, heart disease, cataracts, and theother types of cell deterioration that are associated withaging.
Just as the vitamin C in lemon juice can prevent sliced
apples from browning, antioxidants scavenge and neutralizethe effects of free radicals in our bodies.  Each antioxidanthas its own unique effect.  Vitamin C, which is water-32Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
CAROTENOIDS
Beta-carotene —carrots, broccoli, sweet potatoes, greens
(dandelion, turnip, beet, spinach), squash (butternut,Hubbard), red bell peppers, apricots, cantaloupe, mango
Alpha-carotene —greens (see above), carrots, squash 
(see above), corn, green peppers, potatoes, apples, plums,tomatoes
Lycopene —tomatoes, watermelon, pink grapefruit
VITAMIN C
Bell peppers (red and green), guavas, greens (see above),
broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, strawberries,papayas, oranges and grapefruits and their juices
VITAMIN E
Polyunsaturated vegetable oils, seeds, nuts, fortified cereals,greens (see above), tomato products
SELENIUM
Wheat germ, Brazil nuts, whole-wheat bread, bran, oats,turnips, brown rice, orange juiceFOOD SOURCES OF ANTIOXIDANTS
Some of the many food sources of antioxidants.soluble, removes free radicals from body fluids and cell
structures composed mainly of water.  Beta-carotene and vit-amin E are fat-soluble.  They seem to be active primarily infat tissues and cell membranes throughout the body.  Themineral selenium is an antioxidant that assists vitamin E.  
What is the best source of antioxidants?  With the
possible exception of vitamin E, the best source of antiox-idants is food (see Supplements:  Foods, or FunctionalFoods? page 34).  Fruits, vegetables, and grains provide awide variety of both known and yet to be discoveredantioxidants that appear to protect your body’s vitalfunctions.
WATER
As an essential nutrient, water is the most often overlookedand taken for granted.  Yet 75 percent of our body weightis water.  Water contributes to nearly every major processin our bodies.  It keeps our body temperature stable, main-tains body chemicals at their proper concentrations, carriesnutrients and oxygen to cells, and removes waste products.Water also cushions joints and protects organs and tissues. 
An insufficient intake of water or excessive loss of water
can result in dehydration and heat exhaustion, a condi-tion characterized by dizziness, vomiting, muscle cramps,fatigue, and confusion.  Fortunately, under most circum-
stances our bodies are good at telling us when we are nearing
dehydration.  When we feel thirsty, our bodies need water.
However, as we get older, our bodies’ ability to sense dehy-dration decreases, and older adults often lose the sense ofthirst.  Our need for water increases with exercise; exposureto hot or even warm, dry, or extremely cold conditions;pregnancy and breastfeeding; and the use of somemedications.  Nutritionists recommend that we drink 8or more 8-ounce glasses of water daily .  Many fruits and
vegetables are 80 to 90 percent water.  Ther efore, in addition
to the vitamins and minerals they supply, fruits andvegetables  also contribute to our total water intake.  Formore information on water, see Part II, Encyclopedia ofFoods, page 150.
ON THE NUTRIENT HORIZON :
PHYTOCHEMICALS
Carotenoids.  Isoflavones.  Capsaicins.  You may have heardthese words in radio advertisements for the latest supplementor seen them in last week’s newspaper.  But what are they?  Allof them fall into the category of substances called phyto-chemicals or phytonutrients.  A phytochemical is, literally,any chemical found in a plant ( phyto is the Greek word forChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 33
When oxygen is used by cells, by-
products called free radicals arenaturally formed.  Free radicalsare molecules with a missingelectron.  Simply put, free radicals“want” their full share of electrons.They will take electrons fromvital cell structures, causingdamage and leading to disease.Antioxidants are able to donateelectrons.  Nutrients such asvitamin C, vitamin E, or beta-carotene are antioxidants thatblock some of this damage bydonating electrons to stabilizeand neutralize the harmful effects of free radicals.
Free radicalAntioxidant
Cell34Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
plant).  Armed with the knowledge that people whose diets
are rich in foods of plant origin are at lower risk for many
serious diseases, nutritional scientists have begun to try to
isolate the actual chemicals in foods that may be responsiblefor promoting health and preventing disease.  Nutritionistshave adopted the term “phytochemical” or “phytonutrient”to refer to any one of a growing list of substances they haveisolated that appear to prevent disease in laboratory animals.  
The phytochemicals identified so far are known to have
various roles in the plants from which they originate,including capturing the energy from sunlight and confer-ring resistance to infection by fungi, bacteria, and viruses.How they function in our bodies, and how they may beresponsible (along with the known vitamins, minerals, and
fiber found in plant foods) for the health-promoting effects,
is just beginning to be understood.
The antioxidant beta-carotene is one of a group of phy-
tochemicals known as carotenoids.  Beta-carotene, thesubstance that gives carrots their orange color and theirname, is converted to vitamin A (retinol) in our body.Other carotenoids include lutein and zeaxanthin (fromgreen vegetables) and lycopene (from tomatoes).  Dietsrich in foods containing carotenoids have been associated
with a reduced risk of cancer and heart disease.  Researchersare also investigating whether lutein-rich diets may belinked to a lower risk for macular degeneration, a diseaseof the retina that may lead to blindness.  
The isoflavones found in soybeans are associated with
lower blood cholesterol and a decreased risk for coronary
artery disease.  In addition, isoflavones, which are alsoreferred to as phytoestrogens (estrogen-like molecules iso-lated from plants), appear to reduce some of the symp-toms of menopause and may confer a lower risk for breastand other cancers (see sidebar:  Soy What? this page).  Forhealth benefits, 20 to 25 grams of soy protein per day is rec-ommended.  For some of the other phytochemicals thathave been identified, see the sidebar Phytochemicals:  AFood Pharmacy That May Fight Disease, page 35.
Although some phytochemicals are now available in
pill form, we do not yet know enough about how theyfunction to assume that any one, on its own, will promotehealth and prevent disease without the presence of thevitamins, minerals, fiber, and other, as yet unidentified,substances in plant foods.  Scientists are making progressin determining how phytochemicals work, but the bestway to ensure an adequate intake of all potentially health-promoting substances in foods of plant origin is to eat thefoods themselves—fruits, vegetables, beans, nuts, seeds,and whole grains.  See the Appendix:  PhytochemicalContents of Selected Foods, page 484.
SUPPLEMENTS :  FOODS ,OR
FUNCTIONAL FOODS ?
Supplements are concentrated forms of vitamins, minerals,fiber, amino acids, fatty acids, herbal products, enzymes,plant or animal tissue extracts, or hormones.  Some sup-plements contain one or two known nutrients or a smallgroup of nutrients such as B vitamins or antioxidants.There is increasing evidence that isoflavones, plant estro-
gens found in soy foods, may have some of the sameeffects as estrogen.  Beneficial effects may include:
• Lower blood lipid levels—Soy may decrease total
cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, andtriglycerides.
• Decreased cancer risk—Cancer population studies
show a decreased risk for hormone-related cancers of the breast, ovary, endometrium, and prostate incountries where plant-based diets with a high contentof phytoestrogens are consumed.
• Diminished menopausal symptoms—Population
studies show that women who eat soy as their main protein source may have far fewer distressing menopausal symptoms. SOYWHAT?
COMMON SOYFOODS PROTEIN CALORIES
(GRAMS )
1/3 cup roasted soy nuts 23 260
1/2 cup soybeans, mature, cooked 14 1501/2 cup soybeans, green, cooked 11 1261 cup soy milk 7 803 ounces tofu, silken, firm 6 50Chapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 35
PHYTOCHEMICALS
A Food Pharmacy That May Fight Disease
Allyl sulfides
Alpha-linoleic acid
Anthocyanosides
CapsaicinsCarotenoids, including lycopene,
lutein
Catechins
Cellulose (fiber)
Coumarins
Ellagic acid
Flavonoids (including resveratrol)Gums (fiber)
Hemicellulose (fiber)
IndolesIsoflavones 
Isothiocyanates
Lignins (fiber)
Monoterpenes
Pectin (fiber)Phenolic acids
Protease inhibitorsPhytosterols
SaponinsGarlic, onions, leeks
Flaxseed, soybeans, walnuts
Eggplant, blood oranges, blueberriesChili peppers
Orange, red, yellow fruits; many 
vegetables, including tomatoes
Tea (especially green tea)
Whole-wheat flour, bran, cruciferous and root
vegetables, legumes, apples
Carrots, citrus fruits, parsley
Strawberries, raspberries, 
blueberries
Citrus fruits, onions, apples, grapes, 
wine, tea
Oats, barley, legumes
Bran, whole grainsCruciferous vegetables
Soybeans and soy products
Cruciferous vegetables
Whole grains, oranges, pears, broccoli, flaxseedCitrus fruits
Apples, citrus fruits, strawberriesBrown rice, green tea
Soybeans, all plants
Legumes, cucumbers
Garlic, onions, licorice, legumesMay protect against coronary artery 
disease, abnormal blood clotting, cancer
Decreases inflammation
May protect against cancerTopical analgesic
May protect against coronary artery dis-
ease, macular degeneration, and cancer 
May protect against cancer
May protect against colon cancer,  
coronary artery disease
May protect against blood clots
May protect against cancer
May protect against cancerMay prevent colon cancer
May prevent colon cancerMay protect against cancer
May diminish menopausal symptoms;
may protect against cancer, may 
lower blood lipid levels, may improve
bone health
May prevent lung, esophageal cancer
May protect against cancerMay protect against cancer (pancreatic,
breast, prostate tumors)
May protect against cancer, coronary
artery disease, diabetes
May protect against cancer
May protect against cancer
May help prevent coronary artery
disease and breast cancer
May protect against cancerPHYTOCHEMICAL FOOD POTENTIAL BENEFIT36Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Others, like the well-known multivitamins, may contain an
entire panel of vitamins and minerals in amounts close to
the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRIs).  Still other supple-
ments may not contain any substances yet identified asnutrients or even demonstrated as beneficial to health.  
With few exceptions, foods are better sources than sup-
plements for the nutrients we need.  A diet based on theFood Guide Pyramid, especially one that is rich in fruits,vegetables, whole-grain foods, and legumes, will providemost of the nutrients we know we need and the ones wehave not yet identified.  When we build our diet on a foun-dation of whole foods, we reap the added benefit ofphytochemicals (known and unknown) and all the types offiber we have begun to realize are important for health.  Dietary supplements can be enticing.  However, because
of a law passed in 1994, the Dietary Supplement Health andEducation Act, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)is more limited in what it can do to regulate the safety,purity, and labeling of supplements than what it does fordrugs or even foods.  Supplement manufacturers arerequired to list the ingredients of their products but arenot accountable for the validity of those lists.  Supplementsmay contain more or less of the active ingredient than theyclaim or may contain various impurities.  Moreover,manufacturers are not required to list possible side effectsof supplements on labels or in promotional materials (seesidebar:  A Closer Look:  Supplements and the Law, thispage).  Finally, we don’t yet know the active ingredient oringredients in many herbal supplements and plant foods,so we have no way of knowing whether the commerciallyavailable extracts of those herbs or foods will have the samebenefits as the foods themselves.
Herbal Supplements 
The popularity of herbal products, those made from extracts
of plants and believed to have medicinal properties, continues
to increase.  Americans spend $700 million a year on herbalremedies.  The use of some plant remedies dates backthousands of years, and plant materials are the basis formany of our most helpful medications, including aspirinand morphine.  Scientists continue to investigate anddiscover new medicinal uses for substances in plants (seesidebar:  Herbal Products, page 37).  
Even though some herbal remedies may show benefi-
cial effects, most show little evidence of providing anyhealth benefits.  In fact, some may have serious health risksand may interfere with the action of some medicines.Because herbal products are considered dietary supple-ments rather than drugs, the FDA is limited in its abilityto regulate these substances.  Ongoing studies continue toinvestigate selected herbs for their safety and effectiveness,so that more information will be available to consumersin the future.  There is no guarantee of quality control.  Inthe meantime, follow these precautions when consideringa supplement:• Do not use herbal remedies for treatment of serious
illnesses.
• Do not give herbal (or other) supplements to infants
and children.
• Avoid all herbal supplements if you are pregnant or
trying to become pregnant.When a dietary supplement is available in the store, it is
naturally assumed that it is safe.  Some governmentagency has checked to make certain it is not harmful,right?  Not anymore.
In 1994, the Dietary Supplement Health and
Education Act removed dietary supplements from pre-market safety evaluations required of food ingredientsand drugs.  Drugs and food ingredients still undergo alengthy Food and Drug Administration (FDA) safetyreview before they can be marketed, but the 1994 legis-lation eliminated the FDA’s authority to regulate thesafety of nutritional supplements before they go on themarket.  Now, the FDA can intervene only after an ill-ness or injury occurs.
Claims may not be made about the use of dietary
supplements to diagnose, prevent, treat, or cure a spe-cific disease.  For example, a product may not carry theclaim "cures cancer" or "treats arthritis."
The FDA can still restrict the sale of an unsafe
dietary supplement when there is evidence that theproduct presents a significant or reasonable safety con-cern.  But the agency must wait for complaints about aproduct before acting.
The legislation also changed guidelines for market-
ing supplements.  Because the nutritional supplementindustry is now largely unregulated, there is no guaran-tee of product purity or of the amount of active ingredi-ent in a supplement—even from one package to thenext of the same product.A C LOSER LOOK:  SUPPLEMENTS AND THE LAWChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 37
HERBAL PRODUCTS
Chamomile
Matricaria chamomilla
Comfrey
Symphytum officinale
Purple coneflower
Echinacea
Ephedra -containing compounds
Ma-huang
Garlic
Allium sativum
Ginger
Zingiber officinale
Ginkgo
Ginkgo biloba
Ginseng
Panax ginseng
Guarana
Paullinia cupana
Indian tobacco
Lobelia inflata
Kava
Piper methysticum
St. John’s wort
Hypericum perforatum
Saw palmetto
Serenoa repens
Yohimbe bark
Pausinystalia yohimbaInternally for indigestion and as an 
anti-inflammatory.  Externally for skin
inflammations
Externally for bruises and sprains (where
skin is intact)
Protects against colds
Stimulant
May improve blood lipid levels (equal 
to 2 to 4 cloves a day)
For loss of appetite, travel sickness
Improved blood flow to the brain and
peripheral circulation; improvement in
concentration and memory deficits
Tonic for fatigue and declining work
capacity
Stimulation due to caffeine-like content.
Diuretic
Asthma treatment, stimulates respiratory
center to open airways and ease breathing
Nervousness and insomnia
For mild depression and anxiety
Urinary problems in men with 
non-cancerous (benign) prostate enlarge-
ment.  Does not reduce the enlargement
Used for sexual disorders, as an aphrodisiac,
although it appears to be ineffectiveWeak potential for allergic sensitization
Taken internally, it contains traces of
alkaloids, which can cause liver damageand cancer risk
Possibility of an excessive immune
response.  Should not be used by persons
with multiple sclerosis, AIDS, or tuberculosis
Headache, irritability, sleeplessness.
High doses can cause dangerous increase
in blood pressure and heart rate.
Addictive over long periods
Large quantities can lead to stomach
complaints, rare skin allergic reaction
Should not be taken with gallstone
conditions
Mild gastrointestinal complaints, allergic
skin reactions.  Can change blood clotting;
therefore, consult with physician if
taking anticoagulant therapy
High doses can cause sleeplessness, high
blood pressure, and edema
Caution advised for persons with
sensitivity to caffeine, renal diseases,
hyperthyroidism, panic anxiety
High doses can cause convulsions,
respiratory problems, and even death
Gastrointestinal complaints, eye pupil
dilation, and disorders of visual equilib-
rium. May interact with (enhance) othercentral nervous system substances, such
as alcohol and barbiturates
Digestive complaints of fullness or
constipation. Sensitivity to sunlight inlarge doses.  Consult with physician if
taking antidepressant medications
Use under a physician’s supervision, not
as a substitute for medical treatment
Do not use if liver or kidney disease is
present.  Side effects include anxiety,
increase in blood pressure, rapid 
heartbeat, tremor, and vomiting.  High doses can cause heart failureHERB POSSIBLE USE PRECAUTIONS• If you have a medical condition, check with your health
care provider before taking herbal supplements.
• In addition, if you are taking medications, do not take
herbal supplements before discussing them with yourhealth care provider.
Supplement Sense
In general, high-dose vitamin or mineral supplements addlittle to our health and may in themselves cause illness.  Those
that contain more than 100 percent of your estimated daily
needs may result in serious nutrient imbalances or eventoxicity.  Such imbalances do not occur when your source ofvitamins comes from foods rather than supplements, because
foods contain safe amounts of multiple nutrients, and if you
follow the Food Guide P yramid’s r ecommended number of
servings you will likely meet the recommended amounts formost nutrients.
As discussed earlier, most Americans, including athletes,
consume considerably more protein than recommended,and more than their bodies can use.  Protein or amino acidpowders provide no benefit and are a poor substitute forprotein-rich foods that contain necessary vitamins andminerals.  Similarly, pills that promise to deliver all thefiber we need daily are a bad risk, because these pills invari-ably provide only one type of fiber, whereas each type offiber found in foods of plant origin appears to confer uniquehealth-promoting benefits.  The fatty acids we need also areavailable in more than adequate amounts in various foods.
Who Needs a Vitamin or Mineral Supplement? 
Eating a variety of foods, especially those of plant origin,allows most of us to acquire all the known nutrients, foodsubstances, and as yet unidentified nutrients that our bodiesneed.  Nevertheless, supplements may be appropriate forsome individuals.  Who are these people?• Pregnant or breastfeeding women have an increased
need for most vitamins and minerals.  Folic acid is espe-cially important early in pregnancy.  Women who arecapable of becoming pregnant should ensure that theirdaily intake of folic acid from supplements and fortifiedfoods is 400 micrograms.  These vitamins and mineralsare contained in the prenatal supplements that areprescribed by your health care provider.
• Older adults may absorb some nutrients poorly, partic-
ularly folate, vitamin B
12, and vitamin D.  They there-
fore may require supplements.
• People on restricted diets may require supplements of
some vitamins and minerals.
• People with diseases of the digestive tract or other serious
illnesses that limit their absorption of some vitaminsand minerals may require supplements.
• People taking prescription medications may have altered
needs for a variety of nutrients.
• Smokers appear to have an increased need for antioxi-
dants, especially vitamin C.  (However, even thisincreased requirement for vitamin C is easily satisfiedby eating nutrient-rich foods.)  
• People who drink alcohol to excess may require
supplements.38Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Supplements are not substitutes.  Supplements do not
replace the hundreds of nutrients in whole foods neededfor a balanced diet, and they will not fix poor eatinghabits.  If you are considering taking a supplement, heedthe following:
• Do not self-prescribe.• See your doctor or health care provider if you have 
a health problem.
• Discuss any supplement that you are taking.
Supplements may interfere with medications.
• Read the label.  Supplements can lose their potency
over time, so check the expiration date  on the label.Also, look for the initials "USP ."  They stand for thetesting organization, US Pharmacopeia, which estab-lishes testing standards for compounds.  The Foodand Drug Administration (FDA) does not analyzesupplements before they enter the marketplace.
• Stick to the Daily Value (DV).  Choose supplements
that are limited to 100 percent or less.  Take no morethan what is recommended by your doctor or healthcare provider.  The toxic levels are not known forsome nutrients.
• Do not waste dollars.  Synthetic supplements are the
same as so-called natural types.  Generic and syntheticbrands are less expensive and equally effective.
• Store in a safe place.  Iron supplements are the most
common cause of poisoning deaths among children.USING SUPPLEMENTS• Vegetarians who eat no animal products may not get
adequate vitamin B12, iron, and zinc.  Vegetarians who
avoid  dairy products are at a greater risk for calciumdeficiency than are those who do eat dairy products.
• Some evidence suggests that a daily supplement of
vitamin E may reduce the risk of heart disease.
Before taking any supplement, discuss it with your healthcare provider, and be sure to mention any medications youare taking (see sidebar:  Using Supplements, page 38).
The Future Is Here:  Functional Foods
If your breakfast this morning included calcium-fortifiedorange juice and toast made with folate-enriched flour,you are a consumer of functional foods.  Just what is afunctional food?  As the fastest growing category of newfood products, these are foods or food components towhich manufacturers have added ingredients that areknown or believed to promote health and prevent disease(see Chapter 4, What Do the Terms “Fortified” and“Enriched” Mean? page 92) .Although the name “func-
tional foods” is new, the concept is not: when it was dis-covered in the early part of the 20th century that somethyroid disease was caused by a deficiency of the mineraliodine, manufacturers began enriching table salt withiodine.  Since that time, we have also seen vitamin D-for-tified milk, breakfast cereals fortified with a variety of vit-amins and minerals, and the addition of preservatives thatare themselves antioxidants to almost all processed foods(see Chapter 3, Cholesterol-Lowering Margarine, page66).  The past few years, though, have seen a virtual explo-sion of functional foods, some based on careful research andsupported by nutrition experts and some with question-able, if any, potential benefits. 
The Bottom Line on Supplements
With a few exceptions, most of us should get all thevitamins, minerals, fiber, essential fatty acids, protein, andphytochemicals we need from the food we eat, rather thanfrom supplements.  Always consult your health careprovider before trying a supplement.  A few of the func-
tional foods that have recently appeared on the market haveproven benefits, although most have yet to demonstratetheir value.  
If your goal is to eat foods that deliver on their promise
of providing all the necessary vitamins, minerals, fiber, andother yet to be identified health-enhancing substances, youneed to:• increase your intake of whole grains, fruits, and veg-
etables as sources of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and phy-tochemicals
• decrease your intake of foods of animal origin (meats,
dairy products, eggs), particularly those that are high insaturated fat, substituting lean alternatives and plantsources of protein
• limit your use of fats and cooking oils when preparing,
serving, and eating food
NUTRITION AND YOURSTAGE OF LIFE
Choosing to eat wisely throughout life is one of the mostimportant components of living a healthful lifestyle.  Usingthe Dietary Guidelines for Americans and Food GuidePyramid as standards for your food choices and amounts, you
will be well on y our way to establishing healthful eating
habits for your entire life.  Unfortunately, many people
become discouraged by nutrition advice because they mis-takenly think they cannot eat their favorite foods.
A more positive and encouraging approach is to consider
that no food is forbidden.  Good health comes from eatinga variety of foods—meats, dairy products, and especiallyChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 39
vegetables, fruits, and grains—in sensible amounts.  Keep
in mind that your sex, age, weight, and health status are also
important considerations when it comes to determining
your nutritional needs and maintaining good healththroughout life.  In other words, what is nutritionally rightfor one person may not be the same for you.  
In the following pages, you will explore several natural
transition points during a lifetime which prompt variances
in nutritional needs.  These specific times of life, frominfancy to preschooler, school-age to adolescence and teenyears, to young and then older adulthood, are important tounderstanding the changes you can expect as you age andthe strategies needed to meet your need for specific nutri-ents and optimal health.
Infancy 
No human being grows more rapidly than an infant.  Onaverage, a baby triples his or her weight during the firstyear and grows taller by 50 percent.  A newborn may growfrom 7 pounds to 14 pounds in just 6 months, then to 20or 21 pounds by the end of the first full year.  It is easy tounderstand why proper nourishment for infants can pro-
vide a healthy head start on life.
Breast milk contains just the right balance of nutrients
such as protein, carbohydrates, and fat.  It also providesthe infant with antibodies to fight some common childhoodillnesses, and it may be unique in that it decreases the riskof food allergies.  Breast milk is also easy for the baby todigest.
Mothers who cannot or choose not to breastfeed can still
provide good nourishment to their infants with bottle feed-ing of commercial formulas.  Careful preparation is requiredfor each feeding, and formulas must be stored safely.
As a baby becomes more hungry, it is best to increase the
frequency of the breast- or bottle-feedings.  Most nutri-tion experts recommend that solid food should not bestarted until after the fourth month.  Many suggest wait-ing until your baby is at least 6 months old.   Althoughbabies may be ready for solid foods in a few weeks ormonths, the decision to start giving solid foods should bebased on a baby's daytime behavior and eating habits andcoordinated with a baby's increasing nutritional needs.Even if solid foods are started, breast milk or formula shouldcontinue to be included in a baby’s diet for at least 1 year.
A baby's first solid food will probably be cereal.  Cereal
is a versatile food because it can be mixed very thin forbabies just starting on solid foods and can be thickened asbabies work on chewing and swallowing.  After cereals,fruits and vegetables are easiest for babies to digest. 
From 9 months on, babies make a gradual transition
into toddlerhood and develop a feeding schedule that mim-ics the family’s mealtimes.  Sometime after 12 months,babies may be on a schedule of three meals a day with thefamily and breast milk, formula, or snacks between meals.  
By 1 year of age, babies may have as many as four to six
teeth and be developing a more defined and stronger chew-ing motion.  With these developments, babies can handlefoods of thicker consistency, such as lumpy or choppedfoods.  Continue offering new solid foods at the rate ofone new food a week.  One of the most important con-siderations at this age is offering baby food in a form thatis appropriate to the baby's development.  Any solid foodshould be tender and soft enough to be easily squashedwith your fingers.
The typical meal for a 1-year-old includes 1 tablespoon
from each of the major food groups: milk, meat, vegetables,fruits, breads, and cereal grains.  That menu may translateinto a tablespoon of cooked carrots, two bites of rice, a taste40Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Breastfeeding provides the right balance of nutrients—and more.of meat, and a couple bites of pear.    T ry to feed your child
at regular intervals while paying attention to cues that maysuggest that your child is hungry.
Good eating habits begin early (see sidebar:  Infant
Nutrition at a Glance, above).
Preschool Years: Ages 1 to 5
As babies become toddlers, they make the transition intoeating food the rest of the family eats.  The rapid weight gaincharacterized during the first year levels off during thesecond, with an average gain of 5 to 6 pounds.  Because achild is not growing at the same rate as during infancy, heor she may not want the same quantities of food that wereonce enjoyed.  Some preschoolers may be uninterested ineating, whereas others seem finicky. Sometimes preschoolersare reluctant to try new foods or expand their food reper-toire beyond three or four favorites.  There are several thingsyou can do to help overcome these challenges without forc-ing a child to eat (see sidebar:  Tips for Feeding Toddlers,page 42).By this time, a child should be eating foods from each
of the food groups represented in the Food Guide Pyramid.However, do not expect a preschooler to eat a completelybalanced diet every day.  When allowed to choose from aselection of nutritionally sound foods, most children tendto select diets that, over several days, offer the necessarybalance.
Until age 2, fat should not be limited in a child's diet.
Dietary fat and cholesterol are important for an infant'sgrowth.  After age 2, children can begin to consume fats inmoderation just as the rest of the family does.  This type ofdiet includes grain foods, vegetables, fruits, low-fat dairyproducts, lean meats, and their substitutes. 
Keep in mind that every child's energy needs are different.
Thus, snacks are often appropriate for children, especiallyfor smaller preschoolers who cannot eat enough to satisfytheir energy needs all at once.  Small amounts of variousfoods eaten frequently over the course of the day as a snackare healthful and normal.  However, completely uncon-trolled snacking can diminish a child's appetite for meals.Chapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 41
Breastfeeding is preferred
• Meets baby's special nutrient needs• Protects against infection• May protect against food allergies• To be major part of baby's diet for at least 1 year
What about milk?
• Whole milk may replace breast milk or formula at 1 year• Continue whole milk until age 2, then may switch to
lower-fat milk
When is baby ready for solid foods?
• Baby can sit with support• Shows interest in foods others are eating• Can move food from front to back of mouth
• Weight has doubled since birth
• Nurses eight or more times or drinks more than 32
ounces of formula in 24 hours 
• No earlier than 4 to 6 months of ageWhich foods, what order?
• Iron-fortified, single-grain cereals • Vegetables • Fruits• Strained meats• Soft, mashed table foods• Finger foods
Other tips about solid foods and eating in general
• Offer one new food about every week• Offer small amounts frequently throughout the day• Avoid encouraging baby to eat too much or too fast• Infants generally have an inborn sense to consume an
adequate amount of calories
• Egg whites are highly allergenic.  Wait until baby is 1
year or older to introduce eggs
• Babies younger than 1 year old should not be given
honey.  It may contain botulism spores, which canproduce a highly toxic poison.  After age 1, the digestivetract is able to render the botulism spores harmlessINFANT NUTRITION AT A GLANCESchool-Age Children: Ages 6 to 12
The increasing independence of a school-age child may be
a welcome contrast to the constant demands of a preschooler.By early school age, a child should be well on the way toestablishing healthful eating habits and regular physicalactivity to maintain a healthful weight.
A normal school-age child will gain about 7 pounds a
year, and his or her height will increase by approximately2.5 inches a year.  As children approach their teen years, boysand girls differ distinctly in growth patterns.  Pubertygenerally begins about age 10 in girls and age 12 in boys andnormally lasts for 2 to 3 years.  During these years, growthspurts occur.
It is during the school-age years that the guidance of
parents is especially important to formulating good nutri-tion habits.  Modeling healthful eating practices such as
eating foods that are low in fat and high in complex car-
bohydrates and fiber is important.  Emphasize breakfastas an important meal.  Pack healthful lunches that includefruit, vegetables, bread or some other form of starch, ameat or other protein, and low-fat milk.  If a child partic-ipates in the school lunch program, talk about how to makenutritious food choices.  Provide fruits, vegetables, whole-grain breads, or low-fat yogurts as after-school snacks.  Ifa child participates in vigorous physical activity, more caloriesmay be needed. 
One of the major challenges for some school-age chil-
dren is controlling weight.  If a child eats more caloriesthan are used, the pounds will add up, particularly if thechild is inactive.  Besides the social and emotional stressesthat may result from peers who make fun of a child's excessweight, a higher than desirable weight at this age canincrease the risk for later health problems, such as diabetes,high blood pressure, and increased blood cholesterol ortriglyceride values.
Still, overweight children have the same nutrient needs
as other children.  The goal should be to stop or slow therate of weight gain and allow height (growth) to catch up.Do not allow a child to restrict certain foods or to try faddiets.  Instead, provide healthful foods in lesser amounts.
The best way to teach a child about good nutrition is
to set a good example in your own eating habits.
42Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
• Make it comfortable for a child to eat—comfortably
seated, foot support, finger foods.
• Develop a routine—schedule regular meals and
snacks.
• Plan one familiar food at each meal.• Offer various textures and colors—separate them on 
the plate.
• Serve small portions and let the child ask for more.• Allow a child to eat at his or her own pace.• Teach and reinforce good table manners.• Remain calm if a meal is left untouched.• Set a good example.
Foods with color and crunch are interesting—and fun—for
youngsters.TIPS FOR FEEDING TODDLERSTeenage Years: Ages 13 to 19
The teen years and the arrival of puberty are the second
period of remarkable growth for youngsters.  It is a periodof profound development that has important nutritionalimplications.  As a result, requirements increase for energyand all nutrients.
The growth and energy requirements of the teen years
nudge daily calorie needs upward.  On average, boys 11to 14 years old need to have approximately 2,500 caloriesper day.  From age 15 to 18, daily calorie requirementsincrease to 2,800 calories.  Teenage girls also require morecalories, but in the neighborhood of 2,200 calories a day. 
Most of the calories a teenager consumes should take
the form of the complex carbohydrates found at the bottomof the Food Guide Pyramid. It is also a good idea for teensto have 3 servings of calcium-rich foods a day (milk, yogurt,cheese, certain vegetables) to make certain that needs aremet for growing bones.  Iron is also important to the expand-ing volume of blood in the body and for increasing musclemass.  Teenage girls can be at risk for a shortage of iron asa result of iron loss through menstruation.  To ensure ampledietary iron, encourage teens to eat fish, poultry (especiallydark meat), red meat, eggs, legumes, potatoes, broccoli,rice, and iron-enriched grain products.
Growing, active teenagers have a real need to snack
between meals.  Encourage healthful snacks such as freshfruits and raw vegetables, low-fat yogurt, low-fat milk,whole-grain bread, popcorn, pretzels, and cereals.
Several factors challenge the ability of teenagers to eat
well.  The typical teen has a busy school schedule, extracur-
ricular activities, and often part-time employment.  Thesemay lead to skipping breakfast and other meals in favor ofmore meals from vending machines and fast-food restau-rants, and more snacking on convenience items.  Forexample, adolescence is an especially important time toget adequate calcium.  Inadequate calcium may make teensmore prone to the development of osteoporosis and otherdiseases in the future.  
When weight gain accompanies these habits, many
teenagers turn to fad diets for quick weight loss.  All ofthese pressures may lead to nutritional excesses, deficiencies,and, at the extreme, eating disorders.  
Excessive weight concerns can have more serious impli-
cations.  Extremes in eating patterns, either severe under-eating or excessive overeating, may result in serious—evenlife-threatening—health risks.  These extremes may impair
some bodily functions, including decreased hormone pro-duction, and thereby slow sexual maturation in both girls
and boys.  Consult a health care professional if an adoles-cent has a problem with weight. 
Adulthood 
The adult body is dynamic, changing subtly as the yearsmarch by.  Therefore, what was a good diet for you in yoursecond or third decade of life may no longer be a good fitat age 50 or 60.
For example, your metabolism—the way in which your
body converts the food you eat into energy—slows. Thismeans that you gradually need less food for a similar activitylevel.  Fewer and fewer calories are needed as you growolder—about 10 percent less per decade from age 50onward.  This slowing of the metabolism is perfectly nat-ural and occurs because you lose muscle mass (which utilizes
most of the energy you produce) as you age.  Exercise helpsto maintain muscle mass and helps you burn calories.However, most Americans still need to reduce calories.
Variety and moderation remain the keys to a healthful
diet.  A balanced diet ensures proper intake of vitamins,minerals, proteins, carbohydrates, and other nutrients.Moderation controls calories and is especially importantwith regard to consumption of alcohol.  Drinking plenty ofwater, eating fiber-rich foods, and staying as active as possiblecan help to stave off constipation.
Pregnancy and Breastfeeding 
The best time to start thinking about good nutrition isbefore a woman becomes pregnant.  Then she can be certainthat her baby will have all the essential nutrients from themoment of conception.
Babies born at low weights (less than 5.5 pounds) have
a greater likelihood for development of health problems.Mothers-to-be can help prevent this from occurring byeating the well-rounded diet that women their age wouldideally eat, as well as achieving an appropriate weight fortheir height.  Women who are 15 percent or more under-weight present a special risk for a difficult pregnancy andchildbirth.
Before becoming pregnant, talk to your health care
provider about your need for a folic acid (a B vitamin)supplement.  Doctors and scientists agree that use of folicacid supplements can reduce the occurrence of a birthdefect called a neural tube defect.  One form of this defectis spina bifida, an incomplete closure of the spine.  Folatelevels also may be affected by consuming alcohol andChapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 43“Morning” sickness
“Morning” sickness is not necessarily unique to mornings.
About half of all pregnant women experience this duringthe first 12 weeks of pregnancy.
• Eat dry toast or crackers.• Eat smaller amounts—more frequently—so that your
stomach isn't too empty or too full.
• Limit or avoid spicy and fried foods.• Sip liquids.  T ry crushed ice or frozen ice pops to avoid
dehydration if you are vomiting.
• Cook in a well-ventilated kitchen.
Heartburn
During the later part of pregnancy, hormonal changes and
the pressure due to an expanding uterus pushing on yourstomach slow the rate at which food leaves the stomach.To diminish heartburn:
• Eat smaller meals more frequently.• Limit or avoid chocolate and spicy and fried foods.• Limit caffeine.
Constipation
Increased pressure from the growing baby can slow down
the movement of the contents in your bowels.
• Drink plenty of liquids—2 to 3 quarts daily.• Eat whole-grain breads and cereals, fresh fruits, and raw
vegetables.
• Exercise moderately and regularly.Anemia
Pregnancy increases the risk for anemia because of an inad-
equate intake of iron and folate, greater needs for thesenutrients because of the baby, or both.
• Eat iron-rich foods (red meat, eggs, liver, dried fruit,
iron-fortified cereals).
• Eat foods with folate (leafy green vegetables, oranges
and grapefruit, dry beans, and cereals fortified with folic acid).
• Follow your health care provider's recommendations
about supplements.
Breastfeeding
• Drink plenty of liquids—2 to 3 quarts daily.• Choose calcium-rich foods (milk, yogurt, cheese, pud-
ding, tofu).
• If you have a limited diet, check with your health care
provider about continuing your prenatal vitamin-miner-al supplement.
• Exercise regularly and moderately.
Toxins
• If you drink alcohol, stop.  If you don't, don't start.• If you smoke, stop.  If you don't, don't start.  • Avoid excessive salt, which may cause fluid retention
and increase blood pressure.
smoking cigarettes, both of which are toxic to the devel-
oping fetus and should not be used when you are pregnant.Taking oral contraceptives is also associated with low levelsof folate.
It is essential to talk with your health care provider about
folic acid because too much of any supplement can harmyour health.  The best dietary sources of folic acid includefortified breakfast cereals and enriched grain products.Folate (the natural form of this vitamin found in foods) isfound in leafy green vegetables, oranges and grapefruit,black-eyed peas, kidney beans, and other cooked dried beans.Even if you eat a well-balanced diet, prenatal vitamins arerecommended.Research has proved that women who have a normal
weight at the time of conception have the healthiest preg-nancies and babies if they gain 25 to 35 pounds.  Womenwho are underweight may need to gain additional weight.Even women who are overweight should plan on gainingabout 15 to 20 pounds.  During the first trimester, additionalcalories may not be needed.  It is important, however, tomake sure that your diet provides the best nutrition possiblefor you and your unborn baby.  In the second and thirdtrimesters, you will need about 300 extra calories per daybeyond your normal diet.  Concentrate on foods such aslean meat, low- or no-fat dairy products, and dark greenvegetables, all of which provide generous amounts of44Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
TIPS FOR PREGNANT AND BREASTFEEDING WOMENvitamins, minerals, and protein.  If you enjoy milk and
dairy products, it will be easy to meet your need for calci-um, a crucial mineral during pregnancy.  If you do not, askyour doctor or registered dietitian about calcium-fortifiedfoods.  In some cases, a supplement may be recommended.
Even with the increased need for calories, it is nearly
impossible to get sufficient amounts of iron, which isneeded in double the amounts recommended for non-pregnant women.  The added iron is needed for the expand-ed blood volume that accommodates the changes in yourbody during pregnancy.  Iron is also needed for theformation of tissue for both your baby and the placenta.
At birth, a newborn needs enough stored iron to last for thefirst 6 months of life.  The best advice is to eat a healthfuldiet and take only the supplements recommended by yourcaregiver.
Once a baby is born, the mother who chooses to breast-
feed still needs extra calories—typically about 500 caloriesper day.  Continue to concentrate on eating nutrient-richfoods (see sidebar:  Tips for Pregnant and BreastfeedingWomen, page 44).
Senior Years   
Maintaining a healthful diet into older adulthood can bea challenge, particularly if part of what makes eating apleasurable experience—the senses of taste and smell—decline.  Tooth loss or mouth pain can further complicatethe act of eating.  The medicines that must be taken totreat chronic diseases may affect appetite, when meals areeaten, and, in some cases, how food tastes.
Other life changes, including the loss of a spouse, fewer
social contacts, economic hardships, and increasing depen-dence on others for day-to-day care, combine to makegetting a healthful diet more difficult, but more impor-tant than ever.
As people become older, they can expect to need fewer
calories than they did when they were younger—about 10percent less per decade from age 50 onward.  Persons age70 should be eating about 80 percent of the calories theywere eating 20 years earlier. Nonetheless, older people con-tinue to need other nutrients in the same quantities as ever.
This decline in calorie intake translates into a need for
food that is rich in nutrients, to provide what you used toget with more calories when you were younger.   Keepinga lower-calorie intake in mind, you can simply follow thebasics of the Food Guide Pyramid as you get older: heavyon the grain foods, fruits, and vegetables; adequate meatsand dairy products; light on the fats, oils, and sweets. 
Watch for signs of poor nutrition in older adults and
consult a physician, registered dietitian, or other healthcare professional to address their nutritional needs and todetermine whether supplementation with vitamins is needed.Chapter 2:  The Nutrients and Other Food Substances 45
During pregnancy, choose snacks wisely—with health in mind.
This snack includes 1 cup frozen yogurt topped with granola,raisins, apples, and cinnamon.  (See Chapter 5, page 132, for recipe.)
In this chapter, you will read about the
importance of nutrition in maintaining or improving your health.  Whether you are healthy, have a medical problem, have a family history of one, or know a family member or friend with an illness,nutrition plays a major role in preventionand treatment of common diseases.Knowing what nutrients comprise a well-balanced diet,
in what foods to find them, and in what quantities to
eat them are some of the first steps to good health.  Applyingthis knowledge by eating nutrient-rich foods and incor-porating physical activity into your schedule at any stage oflife are the greatest investments you can make in sustain-ing good health.
Although healthful eating may lower your risk for certain
diseases, there are no guarantees that adhering to the tenetsof good nutrition will prevent an illness from developing.Science has shown that not all diseases or disorders are asso-ciated with what you eat.  However, statistics do show
that lifelong food selections may influence therisk for some diseases. 
Research continues to evaluate and
clarify the role that diet and nutri-tion play in the promotion ofhealth and in the development of
obesity, high blood pressure,diabetes mellitus, coronary arterydisease, osteoporosis, cancer, andother illnesses.  The nutritionalrecommendations for preventionof many diseases are similar (seeChapter 1).
In this chapter you will learn
about selected conditions in whichnutrition plays an important roleand how proper nutrition may affect and even alter the
course of these conditions.
OBESITY
If obesity were merely a matter of aesthetics, it would be ofless concern.  But obesity is a health issue.  It is associatedwith an increased risk of diabetes, lipid abnormalities,coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, certain cancers(such as breast, colon, and gallbladder in women and colon
and prostate in men), stroke, degenerative arthritis,
respiratory problems, sleep disturbances, and
gallbladder disease.
Obesity places a huge burden on society in
terms of lost lives, ongoing illnesses, emotional pain,
discrimination, and economic cost (nearly $100
billion annually).  The most ominous burdens posed by
being overweight are reduction of the quality of life and
shortening of life span.  The likeli-
hood of dying early (compared
with the average age at death
of all people in the population)
progressively increases the more
overweight you are.  Diseases
caused by obesity are the second
leading cause of preventable deaths
in the United States.CHAPTEr three
FOOD-HEALTHCONNECTIONTHEThe Battle of the Bulge
With countless diet programs and products promising to
help you shed pounds, losing weight should be easy.  Simplyeating too much and not being active enough are the causesof most overweight problems.  But you also know it is hardto lose weight and even harder to keep it off.  The cause ofoverweight and obesity is a chronic imbalance of caloriesingested and calories burned.  Genetic and environmentalfactors also contribute to obesity.
Americans spend more than $33 billion a year on
weight-loss products and services, but they are losing the“battle of the bulge.”  Despite the great desire of Americansto be thinner, they have become more obese.  Some haveeven declared that the United States has an “obesity epi-demic.”  It is estimated that more than 50 percent of adultAmericans are overweight.  The prevalence of obesity alsois increasing in several other countries.
Get the Terms Straight
“Overweight” and “obesity” are terms that often are usedinterchangeably, but they have different meanings.“Overweight” refers to having excess body weight com-pared with the norm for a person’s height, but the termdoes not account for what tissue is making up the weight.For example, athletes are often overweight according toweight-for-height tables because they have increased musclemass.  However, for most people, overweight means havingtoo much fat. 
“Obesity” refers to body fat in excess of what is healthful
for an individual.  In healthy women, an acceptable levelof body fat ranges from 25 to 35 percent.  In contrast, anacceptable range of body fat in men is from 10 to 23 percent.
How Your Body Uses Food
The number of calories used by an individual is deter-mined by three factors:  basal metabolic rate, the thermiceffect of the food eaten, and the calories used during phys-ical activity.  The basal metabolic rate is the amount ofenergy needed to maintain bodily functions when an indi-vidual is at rest.  This component accounts for 60 to 75 per-cent of the daily calorie requirement in sedentary adults.The major determinant of the basal metabolic rate is theamount of fat-free mass in the body.  Muscle is one exampleof fat-free mass.  Resistance (strength) training can increasethe amount of muscle and therefore increase the basal meta-bolic rate.  Resistance training also can help prevent theloss of lean mass that normally occurs with aging.  Mentend to have more muscle than women and therefore burn
more calories.
The thermic effect of food is the energy required to
digest, metabolize, and store nutrients.  The thermic effectof food accounts for about 10 percent of the total dailycalorie use.  The number of calories burned during exercisecan vary tremendously depending on the amount of exerciseperformed.  For most so-called sedentary persons, the activi-ties of daily living (such as walking, talking, and sitting)
account for 15 to 20 percent of the daily calorie use.
Should You Lose Weight?
How do you determine whether you are overweight or
obese?  Scientists can use sophisticated tests to measurebody composition.  However, these are not necessary formost individuals.  You can measure your change in weightover time.  Alternatively, you can calculate your body massindex (BMI) and determine its relationship to health risks.
Pinpointing Your Risk
There are risk factors that indicate a predisposition forobesity.  Among these risk factors are the following:
Body mass index (BMI) —BMI is defined as your weight
(in kilograms) divided by the square of your height (inmeters).  Simpler still, look it up in the Body Mass IndexTable on page 49.  The advantage of BMI over bathroomscales and weight-for-height tables is that it normalizesweight for height and helps determine whether you have ahealthful or unhealthful percentage of total body fat. 
People who should not use the BMI for determining
health risks include competitive athletes and body builders.Their BMI will be high because they have a larger amountof muscle.  BMI is also not predictive of health risks forgrowing children, women who are pregnant or lactating, andfrail, sedentary older adults. 
A BMI from 19 to 24.9 is associated with a minimal to
low health risk.  A BMI from 25 to 29.9 is considered over-weight and is associated with moderate health risks.  ABMI of 30 or higher is considered obese and is associatedwith a substantially greater risk for development of variousdiseases.  Extreme obesity is a BMI of more than 40. 
Body shape —Increasing attention has been focused
on the distribution of body fat as a potential indicator ofhealth risk.  Specifically, excess fat in the abdomen is asso-ciated with an increased risk for development of variousmetabolic illnesses, including diabetes mellitus, increasedblood lipid levels, and high blood pressure.  In contrast,48Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 49
BODYMASSINDEX TABLE*
To use the table, find your height in the left-hand column.  Move across to find your weight.
The number at the top of the column is your BMI.
HEALTHY OVERWEIGHT OBESE
BMI 19 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 35 40 45 50
HEIGHT BODY WEIGHT (POUNDS )
4´10´ ´ 91 115 119 124 129 134 138 143 167 191 215 239
4´11´ ´ 94 119 124 128 133 138 143 148 173 198 222 2475´0´ ´ 97 123 128 133 138 143 148 153 179 204 230 2555´1´ ´ 100 127 132 137 143 148 153 158 185 211 238 2645´2´ ´ 104 131 136 142 147 153 158 164 191 218 246 2735´3´ ´ 107 135 141 146 152 158 163 169 197 225 254 2825´4´ ´ 110 140 145 151 157 163 169 174 204 232 262 2915´5´ ´ 114 144 150 156 162 168 174 180 210 240 270 3005´6´ ´ 118 148 155 161 167 173 179 186 216 247 278 3095´7´ ´ 121 153 159 166 172 178 185 191 223 255 287 3195´8´ ´ 125 158 164 171 177 184 190 197 230 262 295 3285´9´ ´ 128 162 169 176 182 189 196 203 236 270 304 3385´10´ ´ 132 167 174 181 188 195 202 209 243 278 313 3485´11´ ´ 136 172 179 186 193 200 208 215 250 286 322 3586´0´ ´ 140 177 184 191 199 206 213 221 258 294 331 3686´1´ ´ 144 182 189 197 204 212 219 227 265 302 340 3786´2´ ´ 148 186 194 202 210 218 225 233 272 311 350 3896´3´ ´ 152 192 200 208 216 224 232 240 279 319 359 399
6´4´ ´ 156 197 205 213 221 230 238 246 287 328 369 410
* This table has been converted to use weight in pounds and height in feet and inches.people whose excess fat is located in their lower body (hips,
buttocks, and thighs) seem to have minimal or no increasedrisk of these diseases.  Upper-body obesity also is associatedwith an increased risk for coronary artery disease, stroke, andcertain cancers.
Therefore, it can be helpful to assess your health risk by
measuring your waist circumference.  A measurement ofmore than 35 inches in women and 40 inches in men isassociated with increased health risks, especially if you have
a BMI of 25 or more.
What Is There to Lose?  To Gain?
Although no one is without health risk—even the fittestperson can have a heart attack, diabetes, or cancer—healthand well-being are apt to be in less jeopardy if BMI, bodyshape, and family health history do not indicate problems.However, if your BMI is 25 or more, if your fat is primarilylocated in your upper body, and if you have a  personal orfamily history of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure,or sleep apnea, losing weight can greatly improve your health.
Keep in mind that BMI and waist circumference are
just starting points. Other factors also are important.  Whenin doubt, seek a medical evaluation by your physician.  A
thorough history, examination, and blood studies can clarify
whether your weight is having adverse effects on your health.The appropriate plan of action then can be tailored to meetyour individual needs.50Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Measuring your waist circumference can be helpful to determine
how your body distributes fat.  Fat in your abdomen increasesyour risk for high blood pressure, coronary artery disease,diabetes, stroke, and certain cancers.The body has a nearly unlimited
capacity to store fat.  Excess fat in theabdomen can lead to illnesses, includ-ing diabetes, high blood lipid levels,and high blood pressure.  It is alsoassociated with an increased risk forcoronary artery disease, stroke, andcertain cancers.  Losing weight willreduce these risks and lessen the strainon the lower back, hips, and knees.Getting Started
Losing body fat and keeping it off are not easy.  Losing
weight and then maintaining a healthful weight requirecollaboration with knowledgeable health care professionals.Obesity is not only a medical issue but also is a lifestyleissue.  Your habits can help you maintain a desirable bodyweight or they can hamper your efforts to lose weight oreven cause you to gain further weight. The types andamounts of food you eat and the exercise you perform willdetermine whether you gain, lose, or maintain your weight.Therefore, experts recommend that any weight loss programshould consist of three main components:  nutrition, exercise(or activity), and behavior modification.  (See sidebars:Weight Management Programs:  Look for These Criteria,and Special Situations, this page.)
Nutrition
Liquid meals, over-the-counter diet pills, and special combi-nations of foods promising to “burn” fat are not the answers
to long-term weight control and better health.  Learning toeat differently—to enjoy a well-balanced diet of fewer calories—is the best strategy to achieve health and weight goals.  Youshould begin by substituting the words “healthful nutritionprogram” for “diet.”
Most people try to lose weight by eating 1,000 to 1,500
calories a day.  In many instances, eating fewer than 1,400calories makes it difficult to eat a balanced diet containingthe recommended levels of nutrients.  Therefore, nutritionprograms that are too low in calories may be hazardous toyour health.
You can lose weight by eating fewer calories or by
increasing exercise.  A caloric deficit of 3,500 calories isrequired to lose 1 pound of fat.  Over 7 days, this can beChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 51
WEIGHT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS :
LOOK FOR THESE CRITERIA
Nearly 8 million Americans enroll in some kind 
of structured weight-loss program each year.  Choose a safe
and helpful program that meets these criteria.
•Physician participation —Consult a doctor if you have
a health problem or it is necessary to lose more than 15 to 20 pounds.
•Qualified staff —Registered dietitians can design a
nutrition plan.  Specialists in behavior modificationand exercise are also recommended.
•Nutritionally balanced diet —Any weight management
plan should ensure adequate nutrition.  
•Exercise —At a minimum, there should be instructions
for starting a safe exercise program.
•Reasonable weight loss goals —Weight loss should be
slow and steady.  A 1- to 2-pound weight loss per weekis a good start.  A loss of 10 percent of starting weightis also a reasonable initial goal.
•Help in changing lifestyle —Programs should help
improve life-long eating and exercise habits.  Thereshould be opportunity for follow-up support—evenafter goals are reached.
• The only way to lose weight and keep weight off is to
combine a healthful nutrition program (“diet”) withregular physical activity.  Prescription medications forweight loss may be considered in moderately overweightor obese people with weight-related health problems.Use of these medications does not eliminate the need forhealthful nutrition and activity or behavior modificationstrategies.  Medical supervision is essential because thereare potential risks, in addition to benefits.• Weight-loss surgery may be considered only in clinically
severe obesity (BMI of more than 35) with weight-relatedmedical problems or in extreme obesity (BMI more than 40).
• Over-the-counter diet products are a huge financial success.
Many of them promise to help you lose weight byincreasing your metabolism or decreasing your appetite.  However, these effects can be dangerous, and any weight loss isalmost always temporary.achieved by cutting 500 calories each day from your usual
food intake or by cutting 250 calories each day (such asone or two fewer cookies) and burning an additional 250calories with exercise (such as by walking briskly for 30
SPECIAL SITUATIONSminutes).  The good news is that a relatively small loss of
weight can make a big difference in reducing the risk of
health complications from obesity.  Even a 10 percent
weight loss can lead to improvement in your blood sugarlevel, lipid values, and blood pressure.  Once this degree ofweight loss has been achieved, further weight loss goalscan then be set, if needed.  Rather than aiming for an“ideal” weight, which may not be achievable or desirable,focus on achieving and maintaining a healthful weight.  
A healthful diet for controlling weight includes foods
from all food groups in the Food Guide Pyramid—ensuringbalance and variety—in sensible amounts (see Chapter 1,Food Guide Pyramid, page 11.  Also see Chapters 4 and 5for planning and preparing healthful meals).  It is helpfulto review the energy density of the food consumed.  Fat con-
tains 9 calories/gram, protein 4 calories/gram, and carbo-hydrates 4 calories/gram.  Alcohol contributes 7 calories/gram.
For most people, the volume of food consumed deter-
mines how full you feel.  Therefore, eating a small amount
of an energy-dense food (such as fat) is usually not filling,whereas eating a large enough amount to fill you up resultsin a very large calorie intake.  To lose weight, decrease yourtotal calories by cutting back on the fat while filling up onlow-calorie high-nutrient foods such as vegetables, fruits,and grains.  You also can eat lower-fat versions of foods.However, be careful, because low-fat is not always low-calorie (see sidebar:  Low-Fat Is Not Necessarily Low-Calorie,this page).
Healthful eating habits also avoid the feast or famine
phenomenon.  Distributing food selections throughoutthe day provides nourishment to support daily activitiesand can help to eliminate energy highs and lows.  Threemeals and occasional snacks also keep one’s appetite incheck.
It is also important to avoid the hazards of repeatedly
losing and gaining weight.  Although repeated dieting is stilla matter of debate, some studies suggest that it may lowerthe rate at which calories are burned.  When a person is offthe diet and more food is eaten, the body stores fat fasterand more efficiently.  This effect causes regain of the lostweight.  In this circumstance, the amount of weight regainedoften is more than that lost in the first place.
Physical Activity
Improved eating habits in combination with decreasedcalorie intake and calorie-burning exercise is the best wayto lose weight and maintain the results.  In addition toenhancing weight loss efforts, physical activity promotes lossof body fat, increases muscle mass, and increases cardio-vascular fitness.  Regular exercise not only helps you loseweight by increasing the number of calories you burn butalso makes it easier to keep off the weight that you havealready lost. 
Walking is a good choice for getting started on an
exercise plan.  A daily 2-mile walk burns approximately1,000 to 1,200 calories per week.  In addition, do not dis-count the physical activity that is part of ordinary activitiesof daily living—housework, climbing stairs, gardening—all important forms of exercise that can contribute to weightloss.  It may be easier to maintain a schedule if you exercisewith a friend.52Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
FOOD (AMOUNT )C ALORIES FAT(GRAMS )
Cookie (1 cookie)
Chocolate chip 
Regular 80 4.5Reduced-fat 70 3
Sandwich-type
Regular 50 2Reduced-fat 55 1.5
Crackers
Soda (5 crackers)
Regular 60 2Fat-free 50 0
Wheat (15 crackers)
Regular 130 6
Fat-free 180 0
Ice cream (1/2 cup)
Regular 135 7Low-fat 120 2
Potato chips
(1 ounce or 1 individual bag)
Regular 150 10Reduced-fat 135 6
Pretzels
(1 ounce or 1 individual bag)
Regular 110 1Fat-free 110 0LOW-FATISNOTNECESSARILY LOW-CALORIEMany experts recommend that you also participate in
resistance (or strength) training.  Resistance training can
increase your muscle mass (which, as discussed previously,
increases your basal metabolic rate), your bone density(which can help protect against osteoporosis), and yourbalance and coordination (which can lower the risk ofinjury), and it can help improve your posture.
People who are overweight, have been inactive, or have
medical problems should check with their physician beforestarting an exercise program.  An exercise stress test may behelpful because it can measure the response of the heartto exercise and help establish a safe starting level.  (SeeChapter 1, pages 8 to 10, for further discussion about thebenefits of exercise.)
Behavior Modification
Behavior modification programs help identify triggers andtreatments for unhealthful eating habits—such as uncon-trolled snacking or late night eating.  Such programs oftenexplore the reasons behind an inactive lifestyle.  Food diariesand activity logs frequently are used to heighten your aware-ness of what and how much is eaten and the type andamount of exercise done daily.  These journals often provideinsight into what triggers undesirable eating and what canbe done to avoid or change this behavior. 
Other key behavioral elements needed for success include:Commitment —There must be personal motivation to
change—to eat healthfully and to get regular physicalactivity.
Priorities —It takes significant mental and physical
energy to change deeply ingrained habits.  If other majorissues or life stresses are present, it is important to seek helpfor dealing with them.  When balance in life is regained, youcan focus on healthful nutrition more effectively.
Realistic goals —The best goals are those that can be
achieved.  Set daily or weekly goals that allow progress to bemeasured and rewarded.  Aim to lose about 1 to 2 poundsweekly.  It is important to know that small losses of weight—or improvements in physical activity—can improve health.Measurements of blood pressure, blood sugar level, andblood cholesterol and triglyceride values are more impor-tant in terms of health than the number on the scale.  Acceptthe fact that there will be setbacks.  Instead of becomingfrustrated or angry, resume your health program once again.
Group support —Joining with people facing the same
challenges can promote sharing of ideas and facilitatecommitment.
HIGHBLOOD PRESSURE
High blood pressure, or hypertension, is the most commonmajor health condition in the United States.  It is one of theleading causes of heart attack, heart failure, stroke, kidneyfailure, and premature death.  It also can damage parts ofthe circulatory system—including blood vessels in theheart, brain, eyes, and kidneys. 
Sometimes called the “silent killer,” high blood pressure
is a disease that can go undetected for years.  The higher theblood pressure or the longer it goes undiagnosed, the worsethe outlook.  More than 50 million Americans have highblood pressure.  Of that number, an estimated one-third donot know they have the disease.
There has been remarkable progress in detecting, treating,
and controlling high blood pressure.  Recently, there hasbeen a substantial increase in the number of individualswho are aware of their high blood pressure and who arebeing treated for it.  At the same time, the incidences ofcoronary artery disease and stroke have significantlydecreased, partially as a result of progress in the detection,treatment, and control of high blood pressure.  Despitethese efforts, most people with high blood pressure do nothave adequately controlled blood pressure.  Unfortunately,high blood pressure remains a serious medical problem.Chapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 53
Physical activity enhances weight loss efforts by promoting loss of body
fat, increasing muscle mass, and increasing cardiovascular fitness.Approximately 5 percent of cases of high blood pressure
can be traced to underlying diseases, such as kidney disorders
or conditions that cause narrowing of the arteries.  This is
called “secondary hypertension.”  But most cases have noknown cause.  This type is called “primary” or “essential”hypertension.
Risk Factors for High Blood Pressure
There are risk factors that indicate a predisposition for thedevelopment of high blood pressure.  Among these risk
factors are the following:
Family history —A family history of high blood pressure
is a risk for hypertension.
Age—High blood pressure becomes more common
among all people as they grow older. After all, nearly two-thirds of Americans aged 70 or older have the disease.
Sex—Although men and women are typically equally
affected, women who use birth control pills and smokecigarettes have a greater chance of having high blood pressure.
Race —As an example, high blood pressure is more
common among blacks than whites. 
You either have or don’t have the above risk factors.
There are also other factors that increase your risk for highblood pressure which you can do something about:
• obesity—control your weight• lack of exercise—get moving• alcohol consumption—take control or abstain• excessive salt (sodium) intake—cut downMeasuring Blood Pressure
Blood pressure is the force that the blood exerts on theartery walls as the heart pumps it through the body.  Theamount of force depends on various factors, including howhard the heart pumps and the volume of blood it pumps.Another factor is the amount of resistance blood encoun-ters in the arteries—the thicker or more clogged the bloodvessels, the greater the resistance.  The elasticity of arteriesalso plays a role in blood pressure.  The less elastic arteriesare, the less they expand under the force of a heartbeat andthe higher the resistance.  
The standard way to measure blood pressure is in mil-
limeters of mercury (mm Hg).  This unit of measurementrefers to how high the pressure inside the arteries is able toraise a column of mercury.  Each blood pressure measure-ment has two numbers.  The top number is the systolicblood pressure, or the highest pressure within the arteriesthat occurs during “systole,” when the heart is contracting.The bottom number is the diastolic blood pressure, or thelowest pressure within the arteries that occurs during“diastole,” when the heart is relaxed and filling with blood.
For most people, a blood pressure of 120/80 mm Hg or
lower is considered healthy.
Effects of High Blood Pressure
Repeated blood pressure measurements that are more than130/85 mm Hg indicate a potential for problems, a greaterrisk of progressing to definite high blood pressure, and theneed to have regular blood pressure checks.  A measurementof 140 systolic or more, 90 diastolic or more, or both indi-cates high blood pressure, which requires treatment.  Recentguidelines stress the importance of treating to achieve apressure less than 130/85.  Indeed, treating to these lowerlevels of blood pressure further reduces the incidence ofstroke, heart and kidney damage, and other vascular prob-lems.
When high blood pressure occurs, it means that the
force of the blood in the arteries is excessive and manyhealth complications can occur (see illustration on page55).
Heart
High blood pressure forces the heart to work harder thanit should to pump blood to distant tissues and organs.Another way to understand blood pressure is to think of itas a weight or a load that the hear t muscle must “push ” against.
Like any muscle, the heart gets larger with pushing heavy54Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
SYSTOLIC (MMHG)D IASTOLIC (MMHG)
Optimal* 120 or less and 80 or less
Normal 129 or less and 84 or lessHigh-normal 130-139 or 85-89Hypertension
Stage 1† 140-159 or 90-99Stage 2† 160-179 or 100-109Stage 3† 180 or higher or 110 or higher
*Optimal pressure with respect to cardiovascular risk.
†Based on the average of two or more readings taken at each 
of two or more visits after an initial screening.CLASSIFICATION OF HIGHBLOOD PRESSURELose weight —If you are overweight, losing weight is the
most effective non-drug method for lowering bloodpressure.  A weight loss of as little as 10 pounds can sig-nificantly reduce blood pressure in many overweight peoplewith high blood pressure.  In some people, weight lossalone is sufficient to avoid the need for blood pressuremedication.
Exercise —When compared with more active and fit
peers, sedentary individuals with normal blood pressure
have a 20 to 50 percent increased risk for development ofhigh blood pressure. Regular aerobic exercise such as walkingChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 55
High blood pressure can damage vital organs and result in many
life-threatening medical problems.Bleeding within
brain (stroke)
Bleeding withineye (hemorrhage)
Enlarged (hyper-trophied) heart
Shrunken
(ischemic)
kidney
Partiallyobstructed
artery (ath-erosclerosis)Enlarged
artery
(aneurysm)weights.  Eventually, the heart’s pumping efficiency decreas-
es when the muscle can no longer adapt to the excessive
workload that the high blood pressure demands.  When
this occurs, the heart muscle may weaken and the heartcan fail. 
Arteries
High blood pressure can also accelerate the development ofplaque within the arteries, a condition known as athero-sclerosis.  With the narrowing of the artery walls, the riskof heart attack is increased.  High blood pressure also canlead to bulges (aneurysms) in the arteries.  If an aneurysmin a major artery ruptures, the results can be catastrophicand possibly fatal.
Brain
High blood pressure increases the risk of having a stroke,which occurs when a blood vessel within the brain eitherruptures or is blocked.
Kidneys
The kidneys filter waste products from the blood and main-tain proper blood minerals and blood volume.  When thesefunctions are impaired or compromised, so is their role inhelping to maintain blood pressure.  These effects can producea destructive cycle that results in increasing blood pressureand a gradual failure of the kidneys to remove impuritiesfrom the blood.
Eyes
High blood pressure often causes problems with the eyes.Examination of the retina can reveal narrowing of thearteries, small hemorrhages, and accumulations of proteinthat have leaked from affected blood vessels (exudates).Although it is unusual for high blood pressure to impairvision, it can occur as a result of severe constriction of theretinal arteries and swelling (edema) of the retina duringepisodes of increased blood pressure.  T reating the highblood pressure is the only way to reverse this vision loss.
Treating High Blood Pressure
Fortunately for many people, high blood pressure ispreventable.  Even those who already have high bloodpressure or are at increased risk may be able to reduce thenumber and doses of medications needed to control it andminimize other health complications by the followinglifestyle modifications.or biking for 30 to 45 minutes most days of the week is a
very effective means of lowering blood pressure. 
Limit alcohol —Excessive alcohol intake is a risk factor
for high blood pressure and stroke.  It also can interferewith the effects of blood pressure medications.  Men whodrink should limit their intake to no more than 2 drinks aday; women should have no more than 1 drink daily (seeChapter 4, A Drink Defined, page 87).  
Do not smoke —Smoking a cigarette temporarily
increases blood pressure for up to 30 minutes.  Smoking isalso a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease.  Everyone,
especially people with high blood pressure, needs to quitsmoking or never start.  
Limit or avoid high-sodium foods —A high intake of
sodium in the diet increases blood pressure in some people.The average American consumes about 4,000 milligramsor more of sodium a day.  People with high blood pressureshould limit their sodium intake to less than 2,400 mil-ligrams a day, and many experts recommend the same limitfor everyone. 56Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
SIGNIFICANT NUTRIENTS
FOOD GROUP DAILYSERVINGS SERVING SIZES IN EACHFOOD GROUP
Grains and grain products 7-8 1 slice bread Energy and fiber
(emphasis on whole grains) 1/2 cup dry cereal
1/2 cup cooked rice, 
pasta, or cereal
Vegetables 4-5 1 cup leafy vegetable Potassium, magnesium, and fiber
1/2 cup cooked vegetable6 ounces vegetable juice
Fruits 4-5 1 medium fruit Potassium, magnesium, and fiber
1/2 cup fresh, frozen, 
or canned fruit
1/4 cup dried fruit6 ounces 100% juice
Low-fat or nonfat 2-3 8 ounces milk Calcium and protein
dairy products 1 cup yogurt
1.5 ounces cheese
Lean meats, poultry, fish 2 or less 3 ounces cooked meats, Protein and magnesium
poultry, or fish
Nuts, seeds, and legumes 4-5 per week 1.5 ounces (1/3 cup) nuts Magnesium, potassium, protein, and 
2 tablespoons (1/2 ounce) fiber; high in calories
seeds
1/2 cup cooked legumes
Note:  This plan provides approximately 2,000 calories.  The number of daily servings from a food group should vary 
with individual needs.THECOMBINATION DIETFROM THE DASH S TUDY
This eating plan is from the "Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension" (DASH) study from the 
National Institutes of Health.  This diet is rich in vegetables, fruits, and low-fat dairy foods and low in 
saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol.  It is also high in potassium, calcium, and magnesium.  Follow a balanced nutrition program —A low-fat, high-
fruit and vegetable diet can lower blood pressure impres-
sively, all by itself.  A large percentage of people with high
blood pressure may be able to decrease their need for bloodpressure medication if they follow the recommendations ofthe Food Guide Pyramid.  A diet following this plan promotesweight loss and is high in minerals such as calcium, potassi-um, and magnesium, which have been associated with lowerblood pressure.  Chapters 4 and 5 (pages 79 through 149)provide ideas for planning and preparing healthful meals.
The National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute recently
sponsored a study testing the effects of different diets onblood pressure, called the “DASH” (Dietary Approaches toStop Hypertension) study.  Participants in the study ateone of three diets:  an average American diet, a diet rich infruits and vegetables, or a “combination” diet that empha-sized fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy products and waslow in fat and saturated fat.  Sodium consumption was thesame in all three diets.  Participants were asked to limitobviously salty food, to rinse canned vegetables, and tonot add extra salt to food. 
Both the fruit-and-vegetable diet and the “combina-
tion” diet lowered blood pressure.  However, the combi-nation diet was the most effective.  Within that group,people with above-normal blood pressure (more than129/80 mm Hg) and those with high blood pressure (morethan 140/90 mm Hg) experienced reductions of their bloodpressure similar to those achieved with some blood pressuremedications.
Researchers believe that people following the combi-
nation diet fared better because of the low saturated fatand high fruit and vegetable mixture that provided adequatepotassium, magnesium, and calcium.  For people with normalblood pressure, the combination diet may help to avoidblood pressure problems. If blood pressure is only slightlyincreased, following this diet may actually eliminate theneed for medication.  For people with severe high bloodpressure, the diet may allow reduction in blood pressuremedication (see sidebar: The Combination Diet From theDASH Study, page 56).
When Medications Are Needed
When lifestyle changes alone are not effective for lower-ing high blood pressure, medications may be required.Medications vary in the way they control blood pressure.Some types help the kidneys to eliminate sodium and water,some make the heart beat more slowly and less forcefully,and others enable the blood vessels to relax and decrease the
resistance to blood flow.  Your physician will determinewhich drug or combination of drugs is best suited for you.
DIABETES MELLITUS
Each year, the words “you have diabetes” are spoken withgreater frequency, often to unsuspecting individuals.  AmongAmericans, the prevalence of diabetes has grown dramaticallyduring the 20th century.  Today, more than 16 millionAmericans have diabetes—90 percent of them are olderthan 40 years.  Interestingly, half of these adults do not evenknow they have the disease because symptoms developgradually and, at first, are hard to identify.  Early diagnosisis important, though, because the longer diabetes goesuntreated, the greater your risk for serious complications.
What Is Diabetes?
Diabetes mellitus is a disorder of metabolism—the waythe body uses digested food for energy and growth.  Theorigin of the name “diabetes mellitus” is Greek, referring to
sweetness or honey (mellitus) that passes through (diabetes).After a meal, food is broken down into simpler forms andabsorbed by the body.  Simple sugars, amino acids, andfatty acids are used by the body or converted by the liver intosugar (glucose), the preferred fuel the body burns for energy.For cells to use this form of sugar, insulin—a hormonethat is produced by the pancreas—must “unlock” the cellsto allow glucose to enter.  
The pancreas, a long, thin organ that is about the size
of a hand, is located  behind the stomach.  Normally thepancreas produces the right amount of insulin to accom-modate the amount of sugar that is in the blood.  Diabetesis actually not a single condition but a group of diseaseswith one thing in common—a problem with insulin.  Ina person with diabetes, the pancreas does not producesufficient insulin to meet the body’s needs.  This insuffi-ciency may develop if the pancreas stops producing theright amount and quality of insulin, if the rest of the body’scells do not respond properly to insulin, or a combinationof both.  Insulin is required for glucose to be metabolizedproperly.  If there is not enough insulin, excess glucosebuilds up in the blood, and the resulting condition is calledhyperglycemia. 
Persistent hyperglycemia causes almost all the symptoms
that may alert an individual to the development of diabetes.Chapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 57These symptoms can include frequent urination, extreme
thirst, blurred vision, fatigue, unexplained weight loss,
recurrent infection, tingling or loss of feeling in the hands
or feet, and hunger. 
With diabetes, the excess glucose spills into the urine,
and the urine output increases.  Consequently, the personwith diabetes becomes dehydrated and thirsty.  Fatigueresults when the supply of glucose to cells is not available,causing energy levels to decline.  To compensate for thelost fuel, the body burns stored fat, and weight loss andhunger may occur.  Left untreated, persistent hyperglycemiais also responsible for most of the long-term complicationsof diabetes (see Long-Term Complications of Diabetes,this page).
There are several types of diabetes—different disorders
with different causes.  The two most common types aredescribed here.
Type 1 Diabetes
Type 1 diabetes occurs in 1 in 10 people with diabetes.  Inthese individuals, the pancreas produces little or no insulin.To control blood sugar, insulin must be taken.  Most peoplewhose diabetes is diagnosed before age 30 have the insulin-dependent type.  It used to be called insulin-dependentdiabetes mellitus or juvenile-onset diabetes.  Type 1 diabetesaffects both sexes equally.  In most cases it is due to anautoimmune disease in which the body’s immune systemattacks and destroys the insulin-producing beta cells in thepancreas.  This type of diabetes commonly develops in child-hood, but it can occur at any age.  It can develop unnoticedfor several years and then suddenly become apparent, oftenafter an illness.  Some people—particularly children andteenagers—may first become aware of the disease whenthey develop ketoacidosis.  This is a serious complicationin which the blood becomes more acidic because of severeinsulin deficiency.  
Type 2 Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes accounts for about 85 to 90 percent ofdiabetes in people older than 30.  It was previously  callednon-insulin-dependent or adult-onset diabetes.  Mostpersons with type 2 diabetes are overweight or obese.
For people with this type of diabetes, total absence of
insulin is not the problem.  The problem is that the body doesnot make enough insulin to meet its needs and the insulindoes not work normally to control glucose levels.  This istermed “insulin resistance” and leads to hyperglycemia.Excess weight is by far the greatest risk factor for devel-
opment of type 2 diabetes.  Most people who develop type2 diabetes are overweight, a condition that appears to impairinsulin action.  Someone who is overweight and has diabetesmay be able to achieve a normal blood sugar withoutmedication simply by losing weight.  Losing as little as 10percent of body weight has been shown to lower bloodglucose.  Surprisingly, persons who are not overweight bytraditional criteria also may be at risk for diabetes.  Excessbody fat distributed mostly in the abdomen increases thechance for development of type 2 diabetes.  Other riskfactors include age, race, heredity, and lack of physicalactivity.  
Type 2 diabetes may go undetected for many years,
because hyperglycemia develops slowly and the disease maynot immediately produce the classic symptoms of diabetes.Unfortunately, even without symptoms, there are hiddendangers, including damage to major organs such as theheart and kidneys.  Because the disease usually developsafter age 40, and the incidence increases more steeply afterage 55, it is important that people in middle age be screenedfor the disease and see their physician if symptoms develop.  
Type 2 diabetes is more common among Native
Americans, Hispanics, African-Americans, and western-ized Asians than among people of European ancestry.
Long-Term Complications of Diabetes 
Numerous studies have shown that keeping the blood
glucose level close to normal delays the onset and preventsthe progression of eye, kidney, and nerve diseases caused bydiabetes.  Even if blood glucose has not been controlledin the past, any improvement in diabetes control may helpto avoid or delay complications of diabetes and theirprogression. T reatment of high blood lipid values and highblood pressure, which are commonly associated withdiabetes, is also important.
Eye disease —In the absence of good glucose control, eye
disease develops in nearly everyone with diabetes.  Diabeticretinopathy occurs because high blood sugar (especiallycoupled with high blood pressure) can damage the smallblood vessels in the retina (the light-sensitive area within theeye). Diabetes also can lead to cataracts, damage the macula(the area in the eye where the optic nerve is located), andincrease the risk of glaucoma. 
In addition to keeping your glucose levels under control,
it is important to have regular eye examinations with anophthalmologist, who dilates the eyes and does a thorough58Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionexamination of them. A non-dilated eye test is not adequate
for screening.
Kidney failure —In the absence of good glucose control,
a person with diabetes is 20 times more likely to developkidney failure than someone who does not have the disease.Kidney disease results when chronic high blood sugar damagesthe small vessels in the kidneys which are responsible forfiltering waste from the blood.  Ultimately, kidney failuremay occur, requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant. Peoplewith diabetes should have the function of their kidneysevaluated routinely.
Nerve damage —Also called neuropathy, nerve damage
occurs in 30 to 40 percent of people with diabetes.  Nervedamage can cause numbness and tingling, pain, insensitivityto pain and temperature, and extreme sensitivity to touch.Experts think the damage results from the effect of chronichigh blood sugar on blood vessels that supply nerve cells.The feet are especially vulnerable to neuropathy.
Cardiovascular disease —Chronic high blood sugar is
associated with narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis),high blood pressure, heart attack, and stroke.  It is alsoassociated with increased blood levels of triglycerides (atype of blood fat) and decreased levels of  HDL (“good”)cholesterol.  Unless appropriately treated, an individualwith diabetes is 5 times more likely to have a stroke and 2to 4 times more likely to have coronary artery disease. Also,smoking dramatically accelerates the development of these
cardiovascular complications. Anyone with diabetes shouldstop smoking.
Infections —High blood sugar impairs the function of
immune cells and increases the risk of infections.  Themouth, gums, lungs, skin, feet, bladder, and genital area arecommon sites of infection.  Nerve damage in the legs andfeet can make someone with diabetes less aware of injuriesor infection, increasing the risk of amputation.  With prop-er care of the feet, foot complications can be minimizedor avoided.
Can Diabetes Be Prevented?
Although an area of active research, there is currently noproven means of preventing type 1 diabetes.  However,these lifestyle changes minimize the risk of, and may actuallyprevent, type 2 diabetes:
Maintain a healthful weight —Most people who develop
type 2 diabetes are overweight.  Aggressive efforts aimed atachieving and maintaining a healthful weight may be bene-ficial, especially in combination with exercise.  
Eat a balanced diet —A diet low in saturated fat and
sugar and high in complex carbohydrates and dietary fiberalso has been linked to a reduced risk of diabetes.
Exercise —People who exercise regularly have a signif-
icantly lower incidence of type 2 diabetes.Chapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 59
Blood sugar can be kept within normal 
levels by balancing the main treatment tools for diabetes—nutrition, weight control, exercise, and medication.  In some people, blood sugar may be controlled by a combination of loss of excess weight, good nutrition, and regular exercise.  Others may need medication.How Is Diabetes Diagnosed?
It is important that diabetes be diagnosed early, before too
much damage is done.  As a first step, the AmericanDiabetes Association recommends that everyone shouldvisit a physician and get a fasting blood glucose test at age45.  A sample of blood is drawn after fasting overnight,and its glucose level is measured.  A normal fasting resultis between 70 and 110 milligrams of glucose per deciliterof blood (mg/dL).
A retest every 3 years is advised.  If an individual has
any risk factors for diabetes or any symptoms, testing atmore frequent intervals or at an earlier age is recommended.Diabetes is diagnosed when a fasting blood glucose valueis more than 125 mg/dL or a glucose value is more than 200mg/dL accompanied by symptoms of diabetes.  The diagnosisshould be confirmed by repeat testing on a different day.
Tools for Controlling Diabetes
Persons with diabetes can live a full life by following a fewbasic principles to control their disease.  Diabetes can bemanaged with at-home blood glucose tests, healthy nutritionhabits, weight control, routine exercise, and medications (ifneeded).
The most important step is to learn to control the blood
sugar value, which means maintaining it as near to normalas possible or in the goal range determined by your physician.Vigilant control of blood sugar levels may dramaticallyreduce the risk of eye, kidney, and nerve damage.  Thisalso lowers the risk of heart attack, stroke, andlimb amputation, in addition to promoting a more desirable level ofblood lipids. 
Blood sugar can be kept 
within normal levels by balancing the main treatment tools for diabetes—nutrition, weight control, exercise, and medication.  In some people, blood sugar may be controlled by a combination of weight loss, good nutrition, and regular exercise.  Others may needmedication.
Blood Sugar Levels
The level of glucose in the blood depends on several factors:when meals are eaten, how many calories are consumed,activity level, and the dose of medication prescribed.  Thestress of an illness may also alter the level of blood glucose.
Successful daily management of diabetes may prevent orminimize emergencies that may result when blood sugarlevels are too high or too low.  Because these emergenciescan cause mental confusion or loss of consciousness, peoplewith diabetes should wear a medical alert identificationand acquaint family members, friends, neighbors, andcoworkers with the signs and symptoms of an emergencyand steps to a proper response.
Blood sugar levels can be monitored with home testing
meters.  Testing not only measures the amount of sugar inthe blood but also enables the person to identify the reasons
behind high and low values so that adjustments can be made
in the dose of diabetes medications.  Frequently the personcan learn how to adjust the dose of oral medication orinsulin to achieve the desired glucose value.  The healthcare team caring for the person with diabetes can deter-mine reasonable blood sugar goals.
Nutrition
The old restrictive diets for diabetes no longer apply.  It is nowknown that the best diet for diabetes control is consistentwith what everyone should eat for good health. How muchyou eat is just as important as what you eat in controllingblood sugar.  To keep blood sugar on an even keel, peoplewith diabetes should not eat large meals or skip meals; theyshould eat smaller servings at regular intervals instead.  Asfor the menu, choices should follow Food Guide Pyramidrecommendations—emphasize whole grains, legumes, andvegetables.  These foods are higher in complex carbohy-drate and fiber and can help control blood sugar.  Eventhough fruit contains sugar, it should not be avoided.
Because people with diabetes are at higher risk for
cardiovascular disease, it’s important to keep the fat intaketo about 30 percent of total daily calories and to limitcholesterol-containing foods.  Items at the top of the FoodGuide Pyramid—such as fats and sweets—should be eatensparingly.  Research has shown that the total amount ofcarbohydrate consumed at a given time, rather than thetype of carbohydrate, is the most important factor in controlof blood sugar.  Therefore, if not present in excess, sugar canbe included as a part of a well-balanced meal.
Many tools are available to help with meal planning.  For
most people, eating three meals at regular times and avoid-ing excessive sweets are enough to control blood sugar.Dietitians may provide a simple method, such as the FoodGuide Pyramid, to encourage variety, proportion, and
60Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
moderation in food selections and to also ensure healthful
food choices.  Chapters 4 and 5 provide ideas for planning
and preparing healthful meals.  Other techniques may be
needed and recommended by your physician, registereddietitian, or certified diabetes educator. 
Weight Control
Because many people who have diabetes are overweight,maintaining a healthful weight and level of activity is thekey to keeping the disease under control and minimizingthe risk for serious complications.  The more overweightpeople are, the more resistant their cells become to their owninsulin; losing weight decreases that resistance.  Often,weight loss of just 10 percent can improve blood sugar andhave lasting beneficial effects.  
Exercise
With exercise, some people with type 2 diabetes may evenreduce or eliminate their need for insulin or oral diabetesmedication.  Anyone who has diabetes should check witha physician before starting an exercise program.  Studieshave shown that those at high risk for diabetes who exercisehave a 50 percent lower incidence of type 2 diabetes.Exercise helps control weight, makes cells more sensitive toinsulin, increases blood flow, and improves circulation ineven the smallest blood vessels.  A leaner body also helpsburn calories more efficiently.  Moreover, exercise lowersyour risk of cardiovascular disease. 
Exercise can affect blood sugar levels up to 24 hours.  So
if insulin is a part of the treatment plan, check with aphysician to receive guidelines for frequency of blood sugartesting and insulin adjustment.
Medications
Along with nutrition, weight control, and exercise, med-ications may be necessary to achieve a desired glucose level.Persons with type 1 diabetes must take insulin by injection.Insulin cannot be taken by mouth because it breaks downin the digestive tract.  The type of insulin and number ofdaily injections depend on individual needs.  Insulin alsocan be administered by pump. 
In some persons, type 2 diabetes can be managed by
healthful nutrition and exercise alone.  If the desired glucoselevel is not achieved, oral medications may be prescribed.There are several classes of oral medications.  Some stimulatethe pancreas to produce more insulin, and some help insulinto work more effectively in the body by decreasing thesugar made by the liver and by increasing the sugar removed
from the blood to the cells.  If oral medications do notachieve the glucose goal, insulin injections may be required. 
CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
Knowing your blood lipid (fat) levels—the various formsof cholesterol and triglycerides—is important.  But whatthese numbers mean can be confusing, and how thedifferent types of cholesterol—not to mention other bloodfats—relate to coronary artery (heart and blood vessel)disease also can be a puzzle.
Coronary artery disease is the number one killer of
Americans.  Studies point to certain abnormalities in cho-lesterol and triglyceride levels as a major contributor tothis problem.  There is plenty of good news to suggest thatpublic awareness of heart disease and its risk factors ismaking a difference.  Deaths from cardiovascular diseasecontinue to decrease.  Much credit for this encouragingtrend goes to improved treatments and modification ofthe risk factors for heart disease, including loweringcholesterol levels.  Despite these substantial improvements,the American Heart Association reports that cardiovasculardisease still kills almost 1 million Americans each year. Thisis more than all cancer deaths combined.  More than 6million Americans experience symptoms due to coronaryartery disease.  As many as 1.5 million Americans will havea heart attack every year, and about half a million of themwill die. 
Blockage of the coronary arteries supplying the heart
muscle (which can lead to heart attack) causes more deaths,disability, and economic loss than any other type of heartdisease.
Atherosclerosis
The coronary arteries are the heart’s own circulatory system.They supply the heart with blood, oxygen, and nutrients.The heart uses this blood supply for energy to perform itscontinuous task of pumping.  Coronary artery disease cantake many different forms, but each has essentially thesame effect:  the heart muscle does not get enough bloodand oxygen through the coronary arteries.  Consequently,its own demands for oxygen and nutrients are not met.This condition can be either temporary or permanent.
Most coronary artery disease is caused by atherosclerosis
(also known as “hardening of the arteries”).  The termChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 6162Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
In atherosclerosis, plaque deposits gradually accumulate
in the lining of the arteries.  As the deposits enlarge,blood circulation is impaired.  This increases the riskfor heart attack, stroke, and other vascular problems.“atherosclerosis” comes from the Greek ather (meaning
“porridge”) and sklerosis (meaning “hardening”).  Healthy
arteries are flexible, strong, and elastic.  The inner layer of
arteries is smooth, enabling blood to flow freely.
Atherosclerosis can be a silent, painless process in which
cholesterol-containing fatty deposits accumulate in thewalls of the arteries.  These accumulations occur as lumpscalled plaques.  As plaque deposits enlarge, the interior ofthe artery narrows, and the flow of blood is then reduced(see the illustration below).  If reduced flow occurs in thecoronary (heart) arteries, it can lead to a type of chest paincalled angina pectoris.
As a plaque enlarges, the inner lining of the artery
becomes rough.  A tear or rupture in the plaque may causea blood clot to form.  Such a clot can block the flow ofblood or break free and plug another artery.  If the flow ofblood to a part of the heart is stopped, a heart attack results.If the blood flow to a part of the brain stops, a stroke occurs.
Atherosclerotic
plaque depositsA Closer Look at Blood Lipids
Many factors influence the clogging of arteries, but cho-
lesterol is a primary one.  Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-likesubstance (a lipid). Although it is often discussed in negativeterms, it is an essential component of the body’s cell mem-branes.  It also serves to insulate nerves and is a buildingblock in the formation of certain hormones.  The liver usesit to make bile acids, which help digest food.
Confusion about cholesterol is due in great part to the
all-purpose use of the term.  Cholesterol has two sources:the foods we eat (about 20%) and the cholesterol that ismade by the body (about 80%).  Dietary cholesterol isfound only in animal products, such as meat and dairyproducts, or foods made with animal products.  Examplesinclude all meats, fish, and poultry, eggs, and milkproducts.  In addition, both the amount and the type of fat
eaten influence the blood cholesterol level.  Both saturated(primarily from animals) and trans-saturated (oils that have
been processed to make them more solid) fats increase theamount of cholesterol made by the liver.  (See Chapter 2,page 26, for further description of dietary fats.)Unique Roles: LDL and HDL Cholesterol
and Triglycerides
Cholesterol and triglycerides are fats and are insoluble in the
blood.  However, when they combine with protein theybecome lipoproteins and are able to dissolve in and becarried by blood throughout the body.  (See sidebar:  Mini-Glossary of Lipid-Related Terms, above.)
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol is the main
cholesterol carrier in the blood.  There is a direct relation-ship between the level of LDL cholesterol (or total choles-terol) and the rate of coronary artery disease.  When thereis too much LDL cholesterol circulating in the blood, itcan slowly build up in the walls of the arteries that feedthe heart and brain.  For this reason, LDL is often referredto as the “bad” cholesterol.  
If there are too many LDL particles in the blood, or the
liver (the normal site of metabolism) does not remove LDLquickly enough from the blood, it builds, particularly inblood vessels.  It is the role of high-density lipoprotein(HDL) to counteract this effect. 
About a third to a fourth of blood cholesterol is carried
by HDL.  HDL carries cholesterol away from the arteriesand back to the liver, where it is removed from the blood.It is therefore often referred to as the “good” cholesterol.  Ahigh level of HDL seems to protect against atherosclerosisand heart attack.  The opposite is also true:  a low HDL levelindicates an increased risk of atherosclerosis.  Thus, the
goal is to have a high HDL cholesterol level and a low LDLcholesterol level.
T riglycerides in the blood are derived from fats eaten in
foods or produced when the body converts excess calories,alcohol, or sugar into fat.  Most triglycerides are transportedthrough the bloodstream as very low-density lipoprotein(VLDL).  Some cholesterol is also present in VLDL.
A certain amount of triglycerides in the blood is normal.
Hormones regulate the release of triglycerides from fattissue to meet the body’s needs for energy between meals.However, at high levels, triglycerides may contribute tothe development of atherosclerosis.  Increased triglyceridelevels also may be a consequence of other diseases, such asuntreated diabetes mellitus.
Calories ingested at a meal and not used immediately
by tissues are converted to triglycerides and transported tofat cells to be stored. 
Blood Testing
The only way to determine whether cholesterol and otherblood lipids are in a desirable range is to have them measuredby a blood test.  The National Cholesterol EducationProgram guidelines recommend that total cholesterol, HDLcholesterol, and triglycerides be measured at least onceevery 5 years in all adults age 20 or older.  However, yourChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 63
•Apolipoprotein —Proteins that combine with lipids to
make them dissolve in the blood.
•Cholesterol —A soft, waxy substance in the blood 
and in all your body's cells.  It is used to form cell membranes, some hormones, and other needed tissues.Dietary cholesterol is found only in food derived fromanimal sources.
•HDL cholesterol —About 20 to 30 percent of blood
cholesterol is carried by high-density lipoproteins(HDL).  HDL carries cholesterol away from the arteriesand back to the liver, where it is removed from the body.HDL seems to protect against heart attack.  This is whyHDL cholesterol is referred to as the “good” cholesterol.
•LDL cholesterol —Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) 
cholesterol is the main cholesterol carrier in the blood.When there is too much LDL cholesterol circulating 
in the blood, it can slowly build up in the walls of thearteries that feed the heart and brain.  This is why LDLcholesterol is often called the “bad” cholesterol.
•Lipoproteins —Lipids combined with apoproteins.
•T riglycerides —T riglycerides are derived from fats eaten
in foods or made in the body from other sources such ascarbohydrates.  Calories ingested in a meal and not neededimmediately by tissues are converted to triglycerides andtransported to fat cells to be stored.  Hormones regulatethe release of triglycerides from fat tissue to meet thedaily need for energy between meals.
•VLDL cholesterol —In the fasting state, very low-density
lipoproteins (VLDL) contain 15 to 20 percent of the totalblood cholesterol, along with most of the triglycerides.MINI-GLOSSARY OF LIPID-RELATED TERMS64Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
physician also may recommend that the screening include
LDL cholesterol and triglycerides.
T riglycerides must be measured after an overnight fast
because eating can have a marked effect on blood triglyc-eride levels.  Therefore, fast for at least 12 hours beforeblood is drawn.  Do not drink alcohol for 24 hours beforethe test.  If you have a risk factor(s) for heart disease, consultyour physician regarding the optimal frequency of testing.(See sidebar:  Risk Factors for Coronary Artery DiseaseOther Than LDL Cholesterol, below.)
In a sense, it is incorrect to think of a cholesterol (or
triglyceride) level as being strictly abnormal or normal.Although ranges of cholesterol levels have been identifiedwhich are considered “too high,” there is no “magic number”that separates risky levels from safe levels.  Actually, theranges for adults are based on a consensus of experts.  Theyhave identified lipid levels in the blood above which the riskfor development of coronary complications is high enoughto warrant medications or lifestyle changes. 
People with cholesterol or triglyceride levels in the
higher-risk zones are said to be hypercholesterolemic orhypertriglyceridemic ( hyper means “high,” and emicmeans
“in the blood”).  But, as with all risk factors, being in the“high” range does not guarantee that coronary artery diseasewill develop, nor does being in the “low” range guaranteeavoiding it.
Blood test numbers are only guidelines.  If the numbers
stray from the desirable range, a physician can provideadvice on what to do.  Remember that each number takeson greater meaning in light of the other lipid results and inthe presence of other cardiovascular disease risk factors (seesidebar:  Your Blood Lipid Test Results—What Do ThoseNumbers Mean? page 65).The Reasons for High Blood Lipid Levels
Why do some people have high cholesterol and triglycerides?High levels may result from genetic makeup or lifestylechoices or both.  Heredity may endow people with cellsthat do not remove LDL or VLDL cholesterol from theblood efficiently, or with a liver that produces too muchcholesterol as VLDL particles or too few HDL particles.Lifestyle factors such as a high-fat diet, obesity, smoking,and physical inactivity also can cause or contribute to highcholesterol levels, increasing an individual’s risk for athero-sclerosis. 
For a more complete picture of cardiovascular health,
other risk factors—beyond cholesterol and triglycerides—must be considered.  The more risk factors an individual hasin combination with undesirable lipid levels, the greaterthe chances for development of cardiovascular disease. 
The risk factors for cardiovascular disease are divided
into those that can be changed and those that cannot. 
Risk Factors That Can Be Changed or Treated
Smoking cigarettes damages the walls of the blood vessels,making them more receptive to the accumulation of fattydeposits.  Smoking also may lower the HDL by as much as15 percent.  Quitting smoking may return the HDL to ahigher level.
High blood pressure damages the walls of the arteries,
thus accelerating the development of atherosclerosis.  Somemedications for high blood pressure increase LDL andtriglyceride levels and decrease HDL levels.  Others donot.  Blood pressure that is properly managed decreasesthe progression and risk for cardiovascular disease.
Sedentary lifestyle is associated with a decrease in HDL.
Aerobic exercise is one way to increase HDL.  Aerobicactivity is any exercise that requires continuous movementof the arms and legs and increases the rate of breathing.Even 30 to 45 minutes of brisk walking every other dayhelps protect the cardiovascular system.
Obesity is a risk to cardiovascular health.  Excess body
fat increases total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglyc-eride levels.  It also lowers the HDL cholesterol level.Obesity increases blood pressure and the risk for diabetes,which can increase the chances of heart disease developing.Losing just 10 percent of excess body weight can improvetriglyceride and cholesterol levels.
Diabetes can increase the triglyceride level and decrease
the HDL cholesterol level.  Good control of blood sugarhelps reduce increased triglyceride levels.
• Age:  males 45 years or older and females age 55 years
or older, or females who have had prematuremenopause without estrogen replacement
• Family history of early coronary artery disease• Current cigarette smoking• High blood pressure• Low HDL cholesterol (less than 40 mg/dL)• Diabetes mellitusRISKFACTORS FOR CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
OTHER THANLDL C HOLESTEROLEstrogen deficiency and menopause increase the risk
of heart disease.  Conversely, estrogen replacement lowersthe risk in certain groups of estrogen-deficient women.
Risk Factors That Cannot Be Changed
Aging —Aging usually increases the level of LDL cho-
lesterol, although the reasons are not understood.  It couldbe the aging process itself that causes this, or an increase inbody fat with advancing age.
Sex—Cardiovascular disease is not only a man’s disease, as
once thought.   It is the number one killer of women, claim-ing the lives of 500,000 women every year.  Cardiovasculardisease occurs in women almost as often as it does in men.It just happens later in life.  Before menopause, a woman’srisk of  coronary artery disease is lower than that of  a man.Menopause results in an increase in LDL cholesterol anda decrease in the protective HDL cholesterol.  Aftermenopause, a woman’s risk of heart disease is the same as thatof a man.  T reatment with estrogen helps to return the riskto premenopausal levels.Family history —A family history of abnormal lipid
levels or early heart disease increases the risk of heart attackand stroke. 
Lifestyle Changes to Reduce Risk
There is significant opportunity to reduce the risk of gettingcardiovascular disease.  Changes in nutrition along withincreased physical activity and learning to decrease stress canimprove blood cholesterol and triglyceride levels.  Makingdietary changes to improve blood cholesterol and triglyc-eride levels involves these steps: 
Maintain a desirable weight —A diet that is high in fat
also can be unnecessarily high in calories and contribute toan unhealthy weight.  Decrease the total amount of fateaten.  Limit fat—saturated, polyunsaturated, and monoun-
saturated—to less than 30 percent of your total daily calories
(see Chapter 2, pages 26 to 29, for a description of these
types of fat).  Some individuals may need to restrict fatseven more.  Because all foods with fats contain a combina-tion of these fats, it is important to reduce total fat.Chapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 65
LEVEL (IN MG /DL)
TEST OPTIMAL BORDERLINE UNDESIRABLE
Total cholesterol Less than 200 200-240 More than 240
HDL cholesterol
Considered "good"—the higher, the better 60 or more – Less than 40
LDL cholesterol*
Considered "bad"—the lower, the better Less than 100 130-160 More than 160Cholesterol/HDL ratio Less than 4.5 4.5-5.5 More than 5.5
LDL/HDL ratio Less than 3 3-5 More than 5
T riglycerides Less than 150 150-200 More than 200
*LDL may be measured directly or may be estimated from the other numbers if your triglyceride level is lower than 400 mg/dL.  
You can estimate LDL yourself by using this equation:  LDL = Total  Cholesterol - HDL + triglyceride level divided by 5.YOURBLOOD LIPIDTESTRESULTS —W HATDOTHOSE NUMBERS MEAN?
Use this table as a general guide.  The importance of each number varies according to your sex, health status, 
and family history.  For example, if you already have heart disease, you will want to lower your 
LDL cholesterol level to less than 100 mg/dL.  Your health care provider can help clarify your specific risk.  66Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Reduce saturated fat —The major dietary culprit in an
increased blood cholesterol level and increased risk for
coronary artery disease, saturated fat is typically solid or
waxy at room temperature.  Minimize your intake of sat-urated fat.  Foods high in saturated fat include red meatsand dairy products as well as coconut, palm, and othertropical oils (check the ingredient portion of the food label).
Replace saturated fat with unsaturated fat—
Polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats should make upthe remaining fat allowance.  In the recommended amounts,polyunsaturated fats reduce LDL cholesterol, but at theexpense of the protective HDL cholesterol, whose levelsalso may decrease.  Polyunsaturated fats are usually liquidat room temperature and in the refrigerator.  Vegetable oilssuch as safflower, corn, sunflower, soy, and cottonseed oilare high in polyunsaturated fat.  Monounsaturated fatstend to have the same effects on LDL cholesterol withoutlowering HDL cholesterol.  Monounsaturated fats areliquid at room temperature but may start to solidify in therefrigerator.  Olive, canola, and nut oils are sources ofmonounsaturated fats.  (See Chapter 2, pages 26 to 29,for further discussion of unsaturated fats, and see sidebar:Cholesterol-Lowering Margarine? below.)
Limit trans fat —This fat is also called partially hydro-
genated vegetable oil.  This type of fat may be as harmfulto your health as saturated fat because it increases bloodcholesterol levels, among other effects.  Major sources arehardened vegetable fat, such as margarine or shortening, andproducts made from these fats, such as cereals, cookies,and crackers.Reduce dietary cholesterol —The daily limit for dietary
cholesterol is 300 milligrams.  Dietary cholesterol is foundonly in foods made from or containing animal products.  Agood way to lower dietary cholesterol is to limit the amountof meat and dairy products.  Organ meats and egg yolks arealso high in cholesterol.  (See Chapter 2, page 27.)
Eat a plant-based diet —A diet that has generous
amounts of grains, vegetables, and fruits is naturally lowerin fat and has good sources of soluble fiber and antioxidants,which may protect blood vessels from damage and plaquebuildup.  Chapters 4 and 5 present ideas for planning andpreparing healthful meals.
Fruits and vegetables and whole-grain products are also
natural sources for folate—a B vitamin that controls theamount of homocysteine in the blood.  Homocysteine is anamino acid (a building block of protein) normally found inyour body.  Your body needs homocysteine to manufac-ture protein to build and maintain tissue.
Problems arise when there is too much homocysteine,
which can cause the tissues lining the arteries to thicken andscar.  Cholesterol builds up in the scarred arteries, leadingto clogged vessels and blood clots.  Adequate intake of thisvitamin can help normalize homocysteine levels and may
reduce the risk for cardio vascular disease (see sidebar: F olate
and Heart Disease, page 67).  There is also accumu lating evi-
dence that vitamin E may reduce the risk of heart attack. 
Cardiovascular Disease and Physical Activity
Unfortunately, most of the population of the United Statesis sedentary.  Sedentary people have nearly twice the risk ofhaving a fatal heart attack as active people of the same agewhen other factors—such as smoking and high choles-terol—are equal.  Consult a physician before embarking onan exercise program.  Then, follow these tips for maximalresults:• Choose an aerobic activity.  It can be something like
walking, jogging, bicycling, or swimming.
• Gradually increase the time and frequency of the exercise.
Work up to exercising for 30 minutes daily.
When Are Medications Necessary?
If changes in lifestyle have not brought lipid values into thegoal range, medication may be necessary.  Before recom-mending a medication, your physician will use careful judg-ment and weigh many variables—sex, age, current health,family history of early heart disease or abnormal lipids,and the side effects of medication. Who would have thought a person could consume
margarine and possibly lower cholesterol? This functionalfood was approved for use in the United States and wasintroduced to the grocery shelves in 1999.  T wo types areavailable:  Benecol and Take Control.  Benecol is madewith a r efined form of plant sterol called stanol ester, which
is derived from wood pulp. Take Control contains sterolesters, which are made from vegetable oils, soybean, andcorn.  These new margarines may help lowe r LDL choles-
terol when used as directed by a physician.  The margarinesmay lower LDL cholesterol 7 to 10 percent.  Therefore,it is important that they be used in conjunction with ahealthful diet full of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables andone that is low in total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol.CHOLESTEROL -LOWERING MARGARINE ?OSTEOPOROSIS
The word “osteoporosis” literally means “porous bones.”
With osteoporosis, bones become weak and brittle—so brit-tle that even mild stresses, such as bending over to pick upa book, pushing a vacuum, or coughing, can cause a fracture.
The strength of your bones relates to their mass or den-
sity and is in part due to the calcium, phosphorus, and othermineral levels.  In osteoporosis, the strength is decreased ascalcium and other minerals are slowly depleted and bonedensity is undermined.
Bone is living tissue that is continually changing—new
bone is made and old bone is broken down, a process called“remodeling” or “bone turnover.”  The cells called osteoclastsdissolve or “resorb” old bone cells, leaving tiny cavities.Another type of bone cells, called osteoblasts, line or fill thesecavities with a soft honeycomb of protein fibers that becomehardened by mineral deposits. 
A full cycle of bone remodeling takes 2 to 3 months.
When you are young, your body makes new bone fasterthan it breaks down old bone, and bone mass increases.Peak bone mass is reached in your mid-30s.  
The mineral-hardened honeycomb, which accounts for
bone strength, depends on an adequate supply of calcium.Estrogen also plays a key role in bone health by slowingthe resorption of old bone and promoting new growth.With aging, bone remodeling continues, but people
lose slightly more than they gain.  At menopause, whenestrogen levels decrease, bone loss accelerates to 1 to 3 percentper year.  Around age 60, bone loss slows again but it doesnot stop.  Men can also have osteoporosis.  By an advancedage, women have lost between 35 and 50 percent of theirbone mass, and men have lost 20 to 35 percent (see illus-tration on page 70).
Risk Factors for Osteoporosis
Despite the gloomy statistics, osteoporosis is not aninevitable part of aging.  With identification of the majorcauses of the disease and their risk factors, osteoporosis canbe detected early and treated.  Moreover, a greater under-standing of the role of nutrients and hormones and new andcontinually emerging medications are raising hopes forprevention of the disease.
How do you assess your personal chances for getting
osteoporosis?  Listed below are several risk factors thatshould be considered and evaluated:
Sex—One’s sex is the most significant indicator of risk.
Fractures from osteoporosis are about twice as commonin women as in men.  Women build less bone than men byearly adulthood.  Women also generally consume lesscalcium than men.  Prolonged calcium deficiency is a risk.Moreover, studies have documented a tendency for lowChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 67
FOOD SERVING FOLATE AMOUNT % D AILYVALUE
SIZE (MICROGRAMS )( BASED ON 400
(CUP) MICROGRAMS )
Breakfast cereals 1/2 to 1 100-400* 25-100
(check label)
Lentils (cooked) 1/2 180 45Chickpeas 1/2 140 35Asparagus 1/2 130 33Spinach 1/2 130 33Black beans 1/2 130 33Kidney beans 1/2 115 29
*Manufacturers of grain-based foods now fortify their products with folic acid—a synthetic form of the vitamin.FOLATE AND HEART DISEASE
Homocysteine is an amino acid that is made from dietary protein.  Too much homocysteine can damage 
arterial walls, allowing fatty plaque deposits to clog arteries and promote blood clotting.
Folate can decrease homocysteine
levels.  About 400 micrograms a day is enough to lower your bloodconcentration of homocysteine.  Toget more folate, eat plenty of beans,fruits, and vegetables—preferably raw or lightly cooked.  Half the folatein foods can be lost in cooking.calcium intake among adolescent girls—a time at which
calcium is especially needed for bone development.
Family history —Having a mother or sister with the
disease may increase your risk.
Race—Whites are at greatest risk, followed by Hispanics
and Asians.  African-Americans have the lowest risk.  Whiteshave a higher risk because they generally attain a lowerpeak bone mass than the others.
Age—The older an individual, the higher the risk for
osteoporosis.
Small body frame —In general, the smaller the body
frame, the thinner the bone.
Lifestyle choices —Smoking increases bone loss, per-
haps by decreasing the amount of estrogen the body makesand reducing the absorption of calcium in the intestine.In addition, women smokers tend to enter menopause ear-lier than nonsmokers—a significant risk factor in itself.Consumption of too much caffeine or alcohol can lead tobone loss.  A sedentary lifestyle is a risk factor. Weight-bearing physical activity strengthens bones.Prolonged calcium deficiency does not merely mean
that newly consumed calcium is not going into the bones.
Because the body also needs calcium circulating in theblood, it will “rob” calcium from the bones to provide ade-quate calcium in the blood. 
Estrogen deficiency —The less a woman’s lifetime
exposure to estrogen, the higher her risk for osteoporosis.For example, a woman will have a higher risk if she has anearly menopause or began menstruating at a later age.  Earlymenopause due to surgical removal of the ovaries alsoincreases the risk for osteoporosis. 
Women generally experience a sudden drop in estrogen
at menopause, which accelerates bone loss.  Men experiencea much more gradual decline in the production of testos-terone, and therefore they do not experience as rapid a lossof bone mass.  Recent evidence suggests that estrogen alsomay play an important role in bone metabolism in men.
There also can be a deficiency of estrogen as a result of
very low weight caused by eating disorders such as anorex-ia nervosa or excessive physical activity.  68Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
HOWYOUGROW SHORTER
In osteoporosis, bones become porous and weak.  
Bones in the spine can compress, causing loss in height. Immobilization —This robs bones of the weight-bear-
ing exercise that can help to build bone mass.  Someone who
is bedridden or otherwise off their feet for any extended
period could have such a problem. 
Medications —Some medications can contribute to
osteoporosis.  Long-term use of corticosteroids, such asprednisone, cortisone, prednisolone, and dexamethasone,is very damaging to bone.  People who need to take suchmedications for other conditions (for example, asthma,rheumatoid arthritis, or psoriasis) should have their bonedensity monitored because they may require treatment toslow the rate of bone loss.  Too much thyroid hormonecaused by an overactive thyroid gland or excess thyroidreplacement also can cause bone loss.  In addition, othermedications also can adversely affect bone health.  If youare at risk for osteoporosis, your physician will take thisinto account when prescribing medications.
Bone Health
An individual’s risk for the development of osteoporosisdepends on how much bone mass has been attained by age25 to 35 (peak bone mass) and how rapidly it is lost after-ward.  The higher the peak bone mass, the more bone aperson has “in the bank” and the less likely that person isto develop osteoporosis as bone is lost during normal agingor during menopause.
The decrease in bone mass and the microscopic dete-
rioration of the skeleton can lead to an increased risk ofbone fragility and fractures, back pain, and a loss of height(see illustration on page 70).  The most common fracturesresulting from osteoporosis include vertebra, hip, forearm,and wrist.  Fractures can also easily occur in other bones.  
Fractures can severely compromise lifestyle and limit
mobility.  If an older woman breaks a hip, for instance,she has only a 25 percent chance of ever resuming herformer level of physical activity.  A broken hip can easily bethe end of an independent way of living or even contributeto an early death from complications of operation or immo-bilization.  Once you have had a fracture, there is anincreased risk of having another.
Although osteoporosis generally is considered a disease
that plagues elderly women, it can begin in others in their40s and 50s.  This potential crippler affects 8 to 10 millionAmerican women and about 2 million older Americanmen.  The cost of osteoporosis to the American economyis about $13 billion per year.  Given current aging trends,these costs will increase dramatically in the coming decades.Testing for Osteoporosis
Physicians can detect early signs of osteoporosis with asimple, painless bone density test.  This test uses x-ray orultrasound technology to measure bone density at likelysites for fractures.  The test also can predict the risk offuture fractures.  Measuring bone density helps identifyindividuals who have osteoporosis or the threat of osteo-porosis.  (See sidebar:  Recommendations for MeasuringBone Mineral Density in Women, below.)  In addition,other tests for osteoporosis are being developed and tested.  
Reducing the Risk for Osteoporosis
Although osteoporosis may not be fully preventable,
researchers are agreeing that the following steps can delay
its onset or improve the treatment outlook and therebythe quality of life.
Maximal Bone Mass
Building maximal bone mass will make bone fractures laterin life less likely.  Maximal bone density depends partly onthe inherited ability to make bone, the amount of calci-um consumed, and the level of exercise.
Estrogen Replacement Therapy
Estrogen replacement therapy is the single most importantway for women to reduce their risk for osteoporosis duringand after menopause, provided there is understanding of theChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 69
The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists
recommends a bone density test to assess the risk ofosteoporosis in women—around the time of menopauseor after menopause—who are concerned about osteo-porosis and willing to accept available treatment.  This includes women who:• have x-ray findings that suggest the presence 
of osteoporosis
• are beginning or receiving long-term glucocorticoid 
therapy (such as prednisone)
• are perimenopausal or postmenopausal and have
parathyroid disease
• are undergoing treatment for osteoporosis, as a way 
of monitoring the effects of therapy RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MEASURING BONE
MINERAL DENSITY IN WOMENrisks and benefits of this type of therapy and it is closely
monitored by a physician.  Estrogen receptors are presentin bone, and estrogen inhibits bone breakdown.  Estrogenreplacement therapy can decrease or prevent bone loss andreduce the risk of spine and hip fractures by as much as50 percent.  For women who already have osteoporosis (andwho have no conditions prohibiting the use of estrogen),starting estrogen replacement therapy can increase bonedensity by as much as 10 percent in the spine and 5 percentin the hip.
However, there are some risks associated with estrogen
replacement therapy.  Taking estrogen alone, without itsnatural balancing hormone progesterone, increases the risk of
cancer of the uterus.  And there may be a small increase in
the risk of breast cancer from long-term use of estrogen.However, estrogen treatment may help decrease the riskof heart disease in certain groups and may also decreasethe risk of other diseases, such as dementia.
Women who have breast or uterine cancer, uncontrolled
high blood pressure, or a tendency to form blood clotsshould avoid estrogen.  If blood triglyceride levels are high,women should consult their physicians to see if an alternativeform of estrogen is an option.  There are new types of estro-gen (estrogen analogs) that may prevent or slow the rate ofbone loss without the increased risk of breast cancer.However, these drugs may not be as effective as estrogen andmay not have all of the beneficial effects.  In addition to
estrogen and estrogen analogs, other types of medicationsare available and new ones are under development to preventand treat osteoporosis.
Calcium and Vitamin D
Adequate amounts of calcium and vitamin D are critical forbuilding peak bone mass in younger years and for slowingbone loss in later years (see sidebar:  How Much VitaminD Is Enough? page 71).
Calcium is a vital mineral in the body.  In addition to
being one of the essential building blocks of bone, calciumis essential to the function of the muscles (including theheart) and the function of the nerves, and it helps the bloodto clot in case of injury.  If people fail to get enough calciumin their diets, their bodies will take calcium from the bones tokeep the blood calcium level constant.  Recommendationsfor calcium vary a bit according to age and medical status.For ages 9 to 18, 1,300 milligrams of calcium daily is recom-mended.  For ages 19 to 50, the recommendation is 1,000milligrams.  Finally, for ages 51 or older, 1,200 milligramsis recommended.  During pregnancy and lactation, therecommendation is 1,300 milligrams.
70Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Although osteoporosis mainly affects women, 2 million
men have the disease, including one-third of men olderthan 75 years.  Warning signs in men include a change in posture or sudden back pain.  But the most commonway osteoporosis is diagnosed in men is because of a lossof height or a fracture.
Smoking and drinking excessively are significant risk
factors for osteoporosis in men.  In addition, men havemost of the same risk factors as women—use of medica-tions that accelerate bone loss, lack of exercise, smoking,excessive alcohol use, and inadequate calcium intake orabsorption.  Low testosterone also may increase the risk.Your physician can determine whether a bone mineraldensity test is needed.
Prevention strategies include getting adequate
calcium, vitamin D, and weight-bearing exercise andconsuming no more than 2 alcoholic drinks a day.OSTEOPOROSIS IN MEN
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80BONEDENSITY OVERTIME
Bone density, which varies by sex and race, peaks in your
mid-30s and then slowly declines with age.  In general, thehigher your peak bone mass, the lower your risk of havingfractures caused by osteoporosis.
MalesBone Density
Age, yearsFemalesThe richest dietary sources of calcium are milk, cheese,
and yogurt.  Other sources of calcium are broccoli, turnip
greens, canned fish with bones, and calcium-fortified orange
juice and tofu.  Of course, if you are trying to get extracalcium through your diet, you should monitor your weight;foods such as whole milk, certain cheeses, and ice cream arerich in calories and fat (see sidebar:  Food Sources ofCalcium, below).  Chapters 4 and 5 also present ideas forplanning and preparing healthful meals.
Depending on dietary choices and habits, food alone can
provide the recommended amounts of calcium.  If you areunsure of the calcium content of foods, follow this simpleformula for estimating intake of dietary calcium:  assignChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 71
HOWMUCH VITAMIN D ISENOUGH ?
Recommended Intake for Vitamin D
AGE DAILYAMOUNT DAILYAMOUNT
(YEARS )( MICROGRAMS )( I NTERNATIONAL UNITS)
9-50 5 200
51-70 10 40071+ 15 600Pregnancy 
and lactation 5 200 
Note:  1 microgram = 40 international units (IU) of vitamin D.
FOOD ITEM AMOUNT CALCIUM CALORIES
(MILLIGRAMS )
Milk  
Skim 1 cup 300 852 percent 1 cup 300 120Whole 1 cup 300 150Nonfat, dry 1/3 cup 285 90
Yogurt  
Plain, low-fat 1 cup 400 145Fruited, low-fat 1 cup 300 225Frozen, low-fat 1 cup 200 200
Pudding
Skim milk 1/2 cup 150 105
Ice cream 1/2 cup 90 130Ice milk  1/2 cup 90 90Cheese
Swiss 1 ounce 270 110Cheddar  1 ounce 205 115Mozzarella (part skim) 1 ounce 185 70
Cottage cheese
Whole milk 1 cup 125 2202 percent milk (low-fat)  1 cup 155 205
American cheese (processed) 1 ounce 105 175Salmon (canned with bones) 3 ounces 205 130Sardines (canned with bones) 4 sardines 185 100Papaya 1 medium 75 120Orange 1 medium 50 60Macaroni and cheese   1 cup 360 430Pizza with cheese  1 slice 230 280Tofu (calcium-fortified)  1/2 cup 130 90Almonds  1 ounce 75 175FOOD SOURCES OF CALCIUMapproximately 300 milligrams for the baseline diet, and
add 300 milligrams for each serving of a dairy product(cup or slice) and 160 milligrams for each serving of acalcium-fortified food that you eat.  If your diet is notadequate in calcium, a supplement may be indicated (see
sidebar:  Tips for Selecting and Taking a CalciumSupplement, below).
Dietary absorption of calcium can be assessed by your
physician.  A 24-hour urine collection can measure thecalcium content to determine how well or how poorlycalcium is being absorbed from your diet.
Vitamin D helps the body absorb and metabolize
calcium and deposit it in the bones.  People can get vita-min D from vitamin D-fortified milk, liver, fish, egg yolks,and exposure to sunshine.  Getting 10 to 15 minutes of72Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Read labels —Various types of calcium supplements contain
different amounts of elemental calcium, which is the actualamount of calcium available for absorption.  
Recommendations are for elemental calcium, so look
for how much elemental calcium is in each tablet.  Ifelemental calcium is not listed on the label, the amount canbe calculated as follows:
• Calcium carbonate (40 percent calcium):
multiply total amount of calcium carbonate by 0.4
• Calcium citrate (21 percent calcium):
multiply total amount of calcium citrate by 0.21
• Calcium lactate (13 percent calcium):
multiply total amount of calcium lactate by 0.13
• Calcium gluconate (9 percent calcium):
multiply total amount of calcium gluconate by 0.09
Look for “USP” on the label.  The U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP)
sets standards for quality that manufacturers must meet.
These supplements meet the requirements for quality, purity,and tablet disintegration and will be better absorbed.Enhance calcium absorption —Various factors may affect
calcium absorption:
•T ake supplements with meals —Although some foods
may interfere with calcium absorption, taking asupplement with meals is more convenient.  Manyolder adults also have reduced levels of stomach acid.Eating stimulates acid production and may enhanceoverall absorption.
•Add vitamin D —Be sure to get adequate vitamin D
in your diet.  Vitamin D helps increase the absorptionof calcium.  If you are in doubt, take a standardmultivitamin, which includes 400 units, the recom-mended standard. 
Minimize side effects —Some forms of calcium may be gas-
forming and constipating.  To minimize these effects, drinkplenty of water, take the supplement with a meal, and takeseveral smaller doses during the day.  T ry different calciumcompounds to find one with fewer side effects.TIPS FOR SELECTING AND TAKING A CALCIUM SUPPLEMENT
If a calcium supplement is indicated, here are tips to help decide which type of calcium to take and how to take it.
Weight-bearing exercise increases bone
density, muscle strength, and coordination,which can lower your risk for osteoporosis,falls, and broken bones.midday sun 2 or 3 times a week can provide sufficient
vitamin D—although not from a winter sun in a northern
climate.  Older adults or persons with certain diseases
often benefit from a supplement.  A multivitamin pillwith 400 international units of vitamin D provides anadequate amount.
Caffeine
Limiting caffeine is a prudent idea.  Too much caffeine cancause extra calcium to be lost in the urine.  If an individualhas only 2 or 3 cups of coffee a day and is consuming enoughcalcium in the diet, there should be no problem.
Alcohol
Consuming more than 2 drinks a day can inhibit boneformation and interfere with calcium absorption.
Smoking
Smoking decreases your body’s ability to form healthybones.
Weight-Bearing Exercise
Weight-bearing exercise is any activity done while the bonesare supporting the body’s weight.  It can slow bone loss,strengthen the bones and back, improve posture, and aidin balance, which helps prevent falls.  Exercises in whichbone sustains repeated impact have added benefit because,for example, the leg bones respond to the impact of thefeet striking the ground by slowing bone loss.  Remember,it is never too late to begin an exercise program.
Bone-building exercises for prevention of osteoporosis
include walking, jogging, running, stair climbing, skiing,and impact-producing sports.  Because strong muscles exertmore force, and bones respond by becoming stronger,weight lifting (or strength training) is another excellentway to forestall osteoporosis.  Of course, anyone with osteo-porosis may benefit by consulting with a physician to designa safe exercise program.
Trauma
Avoiding trauma is a given at any stage of life, but evenmore so for persons with osteoporosis.  Wear sturdy, low-heeled shoes with nonslip soles, and check your home forpotential obstacles that could cause a fall, such as low tables,loose rugs, or inadequate lighting.  The broken bones thatcome from tumbles and falls can produce serious, evenlife-threatening, medical complications.CANCER
Many people have a fear of cancer, perhaps because to themit is always an incurable disease.  The facts do not supportthis idea. 
Countless numbers of Americans who are alive today
have had cancer and are now considered to be cured.
(“Cured” is defined here as being free of any evidence of the
disease for 5 years or more.)  They may have the same lifeexpectancy as others of the same age and sex who havenever had cancer, and they can anticipate leading mean-
ingful and productive lives.
Despite such impressive statistics, cancer remains a
serious disease.  Annually, cancer is diagnosed in more thana million people (excluding non-melanoma skin cancer)and is one of the most significant causes of mortality inthe United States. 
There are more than 100 different types of cancer.  Some
cancers affect just one organ, and others are more general-ized.  In each of its types, however, cancer is chara cterized
by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells
(see illustration on page 74).
Why cancer develops in some people who are exposed
to potentially cancer-causing agents but not in others isChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 73
“Cancer” is derived from a Latin word meaning “crab”
and was first described in writings attributed to Hippocratesand other Greek physicians (500 
B.C. to 200 A.D.).
These physicians described various tumors and classifiedthem as either “carcinos” (benign growths that do notspread) or as “carcinomas” or “crab-like” (growths thatinvade surrounding tissues and cause death).  The term“neoplasm” was described by Galen (200 
A.D.) as mean-
ing “new growth that is contrary to nature.”  The word“metastasis” is also a Greek word meaning “to changeplaces.”  It is used to describe the ability of cancer to migrateto other tissues or organs and to form additional tumors.CANCER TERMS —A NCIENT AND MODERN
Cancer is a disease we have known about since 
ancient times.  The terms used to describe cancer 
come from ancient languages.
neoplasmCancer
carcinosmetastasisAny number of dietary factors may be related to the risk
of cancer.  
The Biology of Cancer
A biomedical revolution is advancing knowledge of thecauses of cancer, yielding new and more effective treatmentsand inspiring greater hope for cancer prevention.  Thisrevolution is built on scientific investigation of the basicprocesses that cause cancer.
The body is a living, growing system that contains
billions of individual cells.  These cells carry out all of thebody’s functions, such as metabolism, transportation,excretion, reproduction, and locomotion.  The body growsand develops as a result of increases in numbers of newcells and their changes into different types of tissue.  Newcells are created through the process of cell division (mitosis).Different types of cells are created by a process called celldifferentiation, by which they acquire specialized function.Cell division results in the normal pattern of human growth;74Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Cancer cells, left untreated,
invade and penetrate the wallsof blood and lymph vessels.Once in these systems, theytravel to other sites, such as the lungs, bone, or brain.Primary tumor
Normal tissue cell
Invading tumor cell
Blood vesselnot fully understood.  But what is known is that many
cancers develop slowly.  It may be 5 to 40 years after expo-
sure to a cancer-causing agent before there is any evidence
of the disease.  Cancer of the lung, for example, may notappear until 25 years or more after sustained exposure totobacco smoke.  This long delay between exposure anddevelopment of the disease may partly explain why so manypeople ignore the warnings associated with smoking. 
The Nutrition-Cancer Connection
During the past 30 years, research has shown that nutri-tion plays a significant role in the development of manycancers and that proper food choices might help to reducethe risk of cancer or even prevent it.  About a third ofthe 500,000 cancer deaths that occur each year in theUnited States can be attributed to dietary factors.  Thegood news is that in addition to engaging in regular exer-cise and not smoking, people have control over this impor-tant factor in cancer development—their food choices.cell differentiation makes possible the normal, orderly
pattern of growth and development.
Unlike normal cells, cancer cells lack the control mech-
anisms that stop, or “switch off,” growth.  They dividewithout restraint, displacing neighboring normal cells,affecting their normal function and growth, and compet-ing with them for available nutrients.  These uncontrolledcells can grow into a mass called a tumor and invade anddestroy nearby normal tissue.  They also can migrate in aprocess called “metastasis,” spreading via the blood orlymph system to other parts of the body.  Not all cells thathave rapid or uncontrolled growth are cancerous.  Cellsmay amass as benign tumors, which do not invade ordestroy surrounding tissues.
Although science has yet to understand the processes by
which all cells grow, divide, communicate, and differentiate,much has been learned about how normal cells are activatedor altered into cancerous cells in both inherited and non-inherited forms of cancer.
The Causes of Cancer
Cancer is caused by factors that are external (chemicals,radiation, viruses, and diet) and internal (hormones,immune and metabolic conditions, and inherited [genet-ic] alterations).  Some of these factors are avoidable; oth-ers are not.  Scientists have identified many of thecontrollable risk factors that increase the chances of get-ting cancer.  A complex mix of these factors, acting togeth-er or in some cascade of events, promotes cancer cell growth.
When the genetic programming of a normal cell is
disrupted, its malignant potential is released.  Everyonecarries this malignant potential within them in normalgenes known as proto-oncogenes.  Products of these genesperform useful functions, such as regulating cell division andcell differentiation.  These functions, however, may becompromised with aging or by exposure to cancer-causing(carcinogenic) agents.  When this happens, they may beactivated to become oncogenes, coordinating the conver-sion of normal cells to cancer cells.
Nutrition can influence any of the steps involved in
the development of cancer.  The development of cancer(carcinogenesis) and its relationship to nutrition is a com-plex process.  Isolating and proving dietary cause-and-effectrelationships can be difficult.  In  addition, studies can be con-
fusing and sometimes show conflicting results.  Nevertheless,the potential for nutrition to increase or decrease the risk ofvarious cancers is compelling.Dietary Guidelines to Reduce the Risk 
of Cancer
Just as negative dietary and lifestyle choices can signifi-
cantly increase the risk of cancer, evidence is mountingthat appropriate food choices can be powerful tools inreducing risk and even defensive shields in preventingcancer.  The American Cancer Society offers these four
guidelines to reduce cancer risk: • Choose most of the foods you eat from plant sources.
• Limit your intake of high-fat foods, particularly from
animal sources.
• Be physically active: achieve and maintain a healthful
weight (see Chapter 1, page 8).
• Limit consumption of alcoholic beverages, if you drink
at all.The Society’s recommendations are consistent with the
U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Guide Pyramid andthe Dietary Guidelines for Americans (see Chapter 1, pages8 and 11).  Although no diet can guarantee full protectionagainst disease, the American Cancer Society believes thatthese recommendations offer the best nutrition informationcurrently available to help reduce your risk of cancer.Chapters 4 and 5 provide ideas for planning and preparinghealthful meals.
Choose Most of the Foods You Eat From Plant Sources
Choosing foods from plant sources is vital to a healthful diet.Many scientific studies have shown that increased con-sumption of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains reducesthe risk for cancers of the gastrointestinal and respiratorytracts and for lung cancer.  This reduction is one of thereasons foods of plant origin form the basis of the FoodGuide Pyramid.  
Plant foods contain beneficial vitamins, minerals, fibers,
and hundreds of other cancer-protective substances.Although more research is needed to understand whatspecific properties or substances in plant foods may specif-ically protect against cancer, there are already manycandidates under investigation—from vitamins and mineralsto fiber and phytochemicals (including carotenoids,flavonoids, terpenes, sterols, indoles, and phenols).  Becausethe positive effects from these components may derive fromthe whole foods in which they are found, expertsrecommend food over supplements (see sidebar:  FoodVersus Supplements, page 76; and see Chapter 2,Phytochemicals—A Food Pharmacy That May FightDisease, page 35).Chapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 75Antioxidants found in fruits and vegetables may help to
prevent cancer.  These are nutrients that seem to offer the
body some protection against oxidation—damage done to
tissue in the course of normal cellular function which maycontribute to the effects of aging and to increased cancerrisk.  Various antioxidant nutrients—including vitaminC, vitamin E, selenium, and carotenoids —may provide thebody with some defense against cancer.  Researchers arestudying the protective role of antioxidants (see sidebar:Food Sources of Antioxidants, page 32, and see Appendix,Phytochemical Contents of Selected Foods, page 484).
Grains provide vitamins and minerals, such as folate,
calcium, and selenium, which may also protect against
cancer.  Whole grains are preferable to refined grains becausethey have more fiber and an abundance of certain vitamins
and minerals.  Beans and legumes are also good sources ofnutrients that have cancer-protective qualities.  (See page20 for more information about fiber.)
Although more research is needed to clarify the specific
roles of these food components, there is still ample evidenceto support eating 5 or more servings of fruits and vegeta-bles a day (especially deep-green and dark-yellow to orangefruits and vegetables, those from the cabbage family, andlegumes and soy products) and 6 to 11 servings of grains(with an emphasis on whole grains).Limit High-Fat Foods, Particularly From Animal
SourcesDecreasing the intake of high-fat foods, especially fromanimal sources, is very important.  Studies show that peoplewho eat a high-fat diet have increased rates of cancers of thecolon, rectum, prostate, and endometrium (lining of theuterus).  Although these relationships exist, it is not clearwhether they are due to the total amount of fat in the diet,to a particular kind of fat (saturated, monounsaturated, orpolyunsaturated), or to another, unknown, factor. 
Because fat, by weight, contains twice the number of
calories than protein or carbohydrate, it is difficult toseparate the effects of the fat from the effects of its calories.People who eat a high-fat diet are often heavier and tendto eat fewer fruits and vegetables, which also increases
cancer risk.
Consumption of red meat, a major source of fat in the
American diet, is linked to an increased cancer risk,particularly of the colon and prostate.  Scientists are unableto determine whether the connection between red meatand cancer is due to total fat, saturated fat, or other com-pounds.  Meat contains compounds linked to cancer, suchas heterocyclic amines, which are produced when it iscooked (see sidebar:  Meat—Cooking and Cancer, page 77).This may be a link to colon cancer. 
76Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
A diet that contains ample amounts of fruits and vegetables 
is associated with a reduced risk for cancer. There is no
evidence that mineral or vitamin supplements are betterthan obtaining nutrients through whole foods.  In fact,studies in which subjects received supplements of beta-carotene showed conflicting and even harmful results.Smokers given supplemental beta-carotene had a higherincidence of lung cancer.  Other studies of supplementalbeta-carotene have shown neither benefit nor harm.
There are more than 500 known carotenoids.  Of these,
only a few have been analyzed:  alpha-carotene, beta-carotene,gamma-carotene, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin.  At this
time, it is not known which exerts benefits—or risks.
Experts recommend a diet rich in fruits, grains, and
vegetables rather than taking supplements.  Plants containhundreds of cancer-protective substances.  It is not knownwhich of the substances may specifically protect against can-cer.  In addition, it is not known whether these substances
work independently or benefit from working together.Plus, relying on supplements rather than eating a variety 
of foods makes it impossible to benefit from these nowunknown food compounds.FOOD VERSUS SUPPLEMENTS
Every day there seems to be a headline announcing that some nutrient or food compound has been linked 
to preventing some sort of cancer.  Driving this is the tremendous amount of research 
exploring specific food components and their role in the cancer process.
DO SUPPLEMENTS OFFER CANCER PROTECTION ?Different fats (such as omega-3 fatty acids and vegetable
oil) may have different effects on your risk of cancer.Saturated fat is a particular concern for cancer risk and forcoronary artery disease. 
How food is prepared is also important.  Some cooking
methods, such as baking, stewing, boiling, and poaching,are healthier ways than frying, broiling, or grilling. 
Limit Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages
People who drink excessive amounts of alcohol have anincreased risk of cancer, higher than that of the generalpopulation, especially cancer of the larynx, esophagus,stomach, and pancreas.
There is no question that limiting alcohol consump-
tion reduces cancer risk.  The risk of cancer begins toincrease with an intake of as few as 2 drinks a day.  AlcoholChapter 3:  The Food-Health Connection 77
TYPE OF FOOD
HCA is found in cooked muscle meats.  Other protein
sources (milk, eggs, tofu, and organ meats such as liver)have little or no HCA naturally or when cooked.
TEMPERATURE
Cooking temperature is the most important factor in reducing the formation of HCA.  Cooking in an oven at400° Fahrenheit or less or stewing, boiling, or poaching at 212° Fahrenheit or less forms one-third of HCAs versus
meats prepared by frying, broiling, or grilling.COOKING METHOD
Frying, broiling, and barbecuing produce the largest amountsof HCA—these methods have higher than recommendedcooking temperatures. Microwaving meats for 2 minuteshelps to decrease HCA.  Meats that are microwaved beforefrying, broiling, or grilling have a 90 percent decrease inHCA content.  Marinating meats before cooking alsoinhibits the production of HCA.
TIME
Meats cooked well done (no pink remaining in center) havemore HCA than those cooked medium.MEAT—C OOKING AND CANCER
Cooking meat at high temperatures creates chemicals that are not present in uncooked meats.  
Heterocyclic amines (HCAs) are chemicals linked to cancer that are formed when meat is 
exposed to high temperatures.  Four factors influence HCA formation:
along with tobacco use produces a combined cancer risk thatis greater than the sum of their individual effects.  Therisks for cancers of the mouth, throat, esophagus, and
larynx are particularly increased.
Research also has noted a connection between alcohol
consumption and an increased risk of breast cancer.  Althoughthe causes are not known, scientists speculate that alcoholmay have a carcinogenic effect, perhaps reflected in itscapacity to alter hormone levels.
Drinking too much alcohol also may negatively affect
eating habits.  The calories in alcohol—with little nutri-tional value—are perhaps being consumed in place ofcalories in healthier foods with cancer-protective values.  Ageneral rule:  men should limit themselves to no morethan 2 drinks a day, women to 1.  (See page 387 for afurther discussion about alcohol.)In this chapter you will learn:
• How to plan and select healthful meals
whether eating at home or away
• How to shop for the healthiest foods• How to read food labels and interpret
nutrient and health claims
• How changes in technology, such as the
use of pesticides, irradiation, additives,genetic engineering, and organic grow-ing methods, affect our foodWhatever your style of eating, several simple planning
techniques will help ensure that your food is varied,
nutritious, and enjoyable. In this chapter you will learnhow to plan and select healthful meals—whether pre-pared at home or eaten away from home.  You alsowill be introduced to strategies to make your shop-ping both efficient and effective.  Also discussedare some of the new (and not so new) issues infoods that are of current interest.  The chap-ter ends with 2 weeks of healthfulmenus—just to get you started.
PLAN TO “EATWELL”
“Eat” and “well” are the keywords.  To do so, you mustbe conscious of whatyou eat and how oftenyou eat.  T ry to eatat regular times.For most of us,
this means eatingbreakfast, a mid-day meal, and anGuide Pyramid to help you make healthful selections.
T ry to be sure that your meals and snacks are rich in
plant foods (fruits, vegetables, and grains), because,
ounce for ounce, plant-based meals are almost always
lower in fat and calories than meat-based meals.
Although meat and dairy foods contain
many nutrients, they also can be very high
in unwanted saturated fat.  The key is to
avoid high-fat types of meats, make an
effort to eat smaller amounts of the
lower-fat meats, and focus on low-
fat dairy products.  Vary your food
choices. T ry foods that are new
to you.  Remember that fats
and sweets are at the top of
the Pyramid, which means
enjoy them, but do so
only on occasion and in
moderation.  (See
Chapter 1, the Food
Guide Pyramid,
page 11.)CHAPTEr four
PLANNING
MEALS
SELECTING HEALTHFUL FOODS
PLUSTWO WEEKS OF MENUS
evening meal.  Healthful snacks can be part of your meal
plan as well.  Going for long periods without eating can
affect how you feel and how much you eat.  Use the Food
EATBREAKFAST
Whether at home or away, start your day with breakfast.
“Breaking the fast” provides your body with both nutrientsand energy.  People who eat breakfast tend to have moreenergy and, on average, are better able to regulate theirappetite during the remainder of the day than their break-
fast-skipping counterparts.
Unfortunately, many Americans do not eat breakfast.
Some skip breakfast because of their schedule, whereas othersdo so in a misguided attempt to control weight.  However,you can eat a healthful breakfast with the time you have.There are many ways to make what is perhaps the day's most
important meal a nutritious, fast, and convenient one.Build a Better Breakfast
Breakfast is the foundation of a healthful diet.  Use theFood Guide Pyramid as a practical resource for planningyour breakfasts regardless of whether you choose foods thatrequire preparation or select ones that are ready-to-go.Cereals are a good choice.  Simple whole-grain cereals withno added sugar or fat are best (see sidebar:  Cold BreakfastCereals, this page).  A breakfast that includes a whole-graincereal, bread, low-fat milk, and a glass of orange juice is agreat starter meal.  This breakfast supplies B vitamins, fiber,iron, approximately one-third of the recommended calcium,and 100 percent of the recommended vitamin C for the day.Best of all, it does so in less than 300 calories.
For a change, try a breakfast bagel sandwich.  Top a
whole-grain bagel with 2 teaspoons of peanut butter and asliced banana.  Add a cup of cold skim milk for a breakfastthat is about 400 calories.  This breakfast includes foodsfrom most of the food groups, is low in cholesterol, and isa good source of iron, folate, and fiber.  For even morevariety, top a flour tortilla with 2 ounces of leftover chickenbreast and tomato pieces and 1 ounce of low-fat cheese.As a vegetarian option, top with rice and beans.  Wrap thetortilla tightly, microwave for a minute or so, and top withsalsa.  While you are at it, drink a glass of a spicy vegetablejuice.  Both of these quick-fix breakfasts contribute servingsfrom the vegetable, fruit, and grain groups in just 350calories.  They also give you plenty of vitamins A and C.
Maybe you prefer eggs for breakfast.  The current rec-
ommendation is to limit your intake of whole eggs to 3 or4 per week.  The reason to limit eggs is that the yolk of alarge-sized egg  contains  about 210 milligrams of choles-terol—more than two-thirds of the daily cholesterolallowance.  However, eggs also have many nutrients.  Peoplewith a low blood cholesterol level probably can safely eat afew more eggs than those who have a high level.  
Create an omelet with 1 whole egg plus 2 egg whites,
sweet peppers, and onions.  Serve with oven-brownedpotatoes and a slice of whole-grain toast topped lightlywith butter or margarine.  Or, better yet, top with jam orjelly as a no-fat alternative.  Remember to include fruitor juice.  This 500-calorie meal—although it containscholesterol—is a good source of iron and is high in fiber,folate, and vitamin C.
Breakfast Out
Many people are too busy to sit down and eat breakfast athome.  The next best bet is to eat breakfast on-the-run,80Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
BRANDS CALORIES FAT FIBER SUGAR
(1CUP SERVING )( GRAMS )(GRAMS )(GRAMS )
All-Bran 160 2 20 12
Cracklin’ Oat Bran 150 8 8 20Fiber One 120 2 26 0Granola 450 17 6 32Grape-Nuts 400 2 10 14Raisin Bran 200 1 8 18Shredded Wheat
(1 cup or 2 biscuits) 170 0 5 0
Wheaties 110 1 3 4Whole Grain Total 150 1 4 7
*Most breakfast cereals are
fortified to provide about 25 percent of most dailynutrients.  Some cereals have more.  Check the label to make your choice.(Use of brand names doesnot indicate endorsement.)COLDBREAKFAST CEREALS
With more than 200 brands of breakfast cereal on your
grocer’s shelves, how do you know what’s best?  Be sure toread the label.*  Choose those that are higher in fiber (morethan 3 grams/serving) and lower in calories, fat, and sugar.Ingredients are listed in amounts by weight.  Check forhydrogenated fats.  If hydrogenated fat is listed near thebeginning of the list of ingredients, the product contains transand saturated fats, which can increase blood cholesterol levels.which at times can pose a nutritional challenge.  Fortunately,
if you know what you are looking for, a nutritious breakfast
can be found almost anywhere food is served.  If you are
traveling and have time for a “sit-down” breakfast, choose arestaurant that offers a varied menu.  If not, try bagel shops,fast-food establishments, the company cafeteria, or even anearby vending machine.  Some may have a “buffet break-fast” that has everything you need, including hot and coldcereals, breads, bagels, fresh fruit and fruit juices, low-fatmilk, and yogurt.  Others also may offer options such aslow-fat burritos, low-fat granola, or low-fat muffins.  (Seesidebar: Best Bets When Eating Breakfast Out, below.)
WHAT’SF O R LUNCH ?
The midday meal is the meal most often eaten away fromhome.  Your options include bringing a lunch from homeor purchasing foods in a cafeteria, vending machine, orlocal delicatessen.
The same rules apply for “eating well” at lunch:  plan to
eat foods low in saturated fat and high in nutrients.  Thismidday meal helps you meet your goal of 5 fruits and veg-etables every day, and it is the perfect time to include wholegrains.  Lunch helps you to distribute your intake of caloriesand nutrients evenly throughout the day.  It can keep energylevels high and help prevent unplanned snacking on foodsthat may not be the best choices.Brown Bagging 
Bringing a lunch to work can save you money and helpyou eat what you really want to eat.  To be sure that yourlunch tastes good and is good for you, try to incorporateeach of the food groups in your lunch.  If you bring toolittle food, you will likely be hungry later in the day.  Youthen increase the chance that you will snack before supperor eat too much at supper.
To keep brown-bag fare interesting and healthful, pack
more variety.  Think of the options:
Grains —Instead of the usual sandwich bread, try pita
(pocket) bread, tortilla wraps, crackers, pretzels, or ricecakes.  Or, try salads made with nutritious grains.  
Fruits —Include fresh fruits.  Every now and then,
choose an “exotic” fruit to add interest.  T ry star fruit, kiwi,papaya, mango, or passion fruit.  (See Part II, Fruits, page153.)  Fruit juices can be nutritious and refreshing.
Vegetables —Expand your repertoire from raw carrots
and celery sticks to potentially more satisfying vegetablesoups and salads.  Stuff pocket bread with a variety ofcooked vegetables.  Use vegetables to make your sandwichmore filling:  fresh spinach or romaine, and slices of cucum-ber, tomato, mushrooms, and sweet or chili peppers.  Avegetable juice makes a great lunchtime drink.
Dairy —Some days drink milk.  Other days eat yogurt
or a bit of cheese.  Choose the low-fat forms more fre-quently to be sure your meal is rich in nutrients and not fatand calories.Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 81
CHOOSE THESEBESTBETSWHENEATING BREAKFAST OUT
INSTEAD OF THESE
CALORIES FAT (GRAMS ) CALORIES FAT (GRAMS )
Toast (2 slices) 150 2 Doughnut (1) 250 12
English muffin (1) 135 1 Bran muffin (1 medium) 360 10Bagel (1 half) 150 1 Croissant (1 small) 230 12Hard roll (1) 100 1 Sweet roll (1 small) 350 15Cold cereal, bran type (1/2 cup) 160 2 Granola (1/2 cup) 250 104-inch pancake, plain (1) 74 1 Hash browns (1/2 cup) 170 9Egg substitute (1/4 cup) 30 0 Scrambled egg (1) 100 7Meat — Meat (which includes poultry, fish, and also
beans, legumes, and nuts) is good for you, but remember
that “moderation” is the key word.  To help take meat off
center stage, be sure that you also include plenty of fruits,vegetables, and grains in your lunch.  Eat only lean meats.When possible, instead of meat, try to substitute foodssuch as hummus, lentils, beans, tofu, and nut spreads,which contain large amounts of plant protein (see sidebar:Sandwich Fixings, below).
Vary the temperature of your lunch by including both
hot and cold items.  A thermos will preserve heat moreeffectively if you first rinse it with hot water.  Likewise,rinsing with cold water will help keep foods cold longer.  Ifyour workplace does not have a refrigerator, a thermal
lunch bag can help keep your food fresh and safe.  A frozenbox of juice can help keep your lunch cold, and the juicewill thaw by lunchtime.
Going Out for Lunch?
If you know what you are doing, eating lunch out increases
your options rather than your temptations.  Most fast-food
restaurants, eager to please the ever-growing number of
people who insist on eating more nutritious foods, nowoffer “lighter” fare such as salads and chicken.  But be carefulthat you don’t choose foods that are healthful in name only.Many foods that at first glance seem to be good choices infact are loaded with fat and calories.
Salad Savvy
Simple salads are best.  To construct a nutritious salad,incorporate lots of fresh vegetables and fruits.  Rememberthat the word “salad” is not synonymous with “healthful.”T ry to eat salads that are low in calories and fat but high inmuch-needed nutrients (see sidebar:  Salad Fixings, page 83).Many taco salads contain at least 900 calories, more thanhalf of which comes from fat.  High-fat meats and cheesesheaped on a chef salad can dominate the vegetables.Chicken and seafood are low in fat; however, this advantageis lost when they are covered with high-fat dressings and oils.Many of today’s salad bars look like delicatessens.  Pastasalad, potato salad, guacamole, and tortellini are popularitems.  Depending on how they are made, they too can behigh in fat and calories.
Unless used sparingly, some dressings can provide up to
400 calories to your salad.  Watch for packaged dressingsthat contain more than “1” serving; check the label to see82Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
AMOUNT CALORIES FAT
(GRAMS )
Breads
Whole wheat 1 slice 70 1 
Raisin  1 slice 70 1 Pita, whole wheat 1 (6.5 inch) 170 2 Kaiser roll 1 (3.5 inch) 170 3 Bagel  1 (3.5 inch) 200 1 
Fillers
Onion, lettuce, 
cucumbers, tomatoes 2-5 pieces 10 0
Chicken or turkey  2 ounces 60 1 T una, water pack  2 ounces 66 T raceHam    2 ounces 75 2 Roast beef 2 ounces 100 2 Hummus  1/4 cup 105 5 Bologna 2 ounces 180 16 Peanut butter  2 Tblsp 190 16Salami   2 ounces 220 16
Spreads
Horseradish 1 Tblsp 6 0 Fat-free mayonnaise 1 Tblsp 10 0Mustard 1 Tblsp 10 0Ketchup 1 Tblsp 15 0Fat-free cream cheese 1 Tblsp 15 0Reduced-fat margarine 1 Tblsp 50 6Cream cheese 1 Tblsp 50 5Margarine 1 Tblsp 100 11Mayonnaise 1 Tblsp 100 11Butter  1 Tblsp 110 12SANDWICH FIXINGShow many servings are in the package.  In some instances,
the listed ingredients are those contained in a half-ounce
serving, even though the package may hold up to 5 servings!
A generous-sized ladle can easily drown an otherwise health-ful salad with a quarter-cup of dressing (300 calories ormore).  Instead of using high-fat dressings, try squeezinglemon on your salad, request low-calorie or fat-free dress-ings, or ask that the dressing be placed on the side.Burgers and Sandwiches
Beware of burgers and sandwiches that are described as“jumbo,” “double,” or “deluxe.”  Many contain about 1,000calories and the majority of your fat allowance for the day.Ask for a regular-sized burger.  Stick with lean meat withoutmayonnaise or cheese.  If salt is not a concern, ketchup ormustard adds very few calories.  Request extra lettuce or top-
pings such as tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, or sweet peppers.  
SNACK TIME
Carefully chosen, snacks can be healthful and nutritious.
Check out the options.  Look for “food machines” stockedwith fresh fruit, juices, cut-up vegetables or mini-salads,nonfat or low-fat milk, yogurt, cereals, or small bagels.Snack items such as pretzels or baked chips, although highin salt, are relatively low in calories.  Negotiate with yourcoworkers:  instead of doughnuts and sweet rolls (which canprovide about 250 calories and up to 15 grams of saturatedfat), offer to bring fresh fruits, vegetables, mini-sized bagels,or bread with a low-fat cream cheese.  Candy bars mayseem convenient, but they are almost always high in bothfat (mostly saturated) and calories (typically 200 to 300Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 83
CALORIES FAT SODIUM
(GRAMS )(MILLIGRAMS )
Go for the basics
Mixed greens (2 cups) 20 0 10Broccoli, green pepper, 
mushrooms  (1/4 cup) T race–6 0 0–6
Carrots, shredded 
(2 tablespoons) 2 0 2
Onion (1 tablespoon) T race 0 0Tomato (1/4) 5 0 2
Extras: proceed with caution
Bacon bits (1 tablespoon) 40 2 225Fried noodles (4 tablespoons) 40 2 30Cottage cheese, fat-free 
(1/2 cup) 80 0 370
Croutons (2 tablespoons) 30 1 40Egg, hard boiled (1) 80 6 60Garbanzo beans  
(2 tablespoons) 35 1 2
Olives (5 large) 25 3 200Pasta salad (1/2 cup) 200 15 560Potato salad (1/2 cup) 180 10 660
Dressings (2 tablespoons)
Blue cheese, French, 
ranch, Italian 140–180 14–20 325–440
Blue cheese, French, 
ranch, Italian:  reduced calorie/lite/fat-free 50–100 0–8 250–300
Lemon juice 8 0 0
Tips for salads
• Go for fresh vegetables and fruit• Go easy on “extras” that add unwanted calories, fat,
and sodium
• Put dressings on the side.  Even “lite” and “free” dress-
ings add up.SALAD FIXINGS
A variety of vegetables makes for a nutrient-packed low-calorie
lunch.  Remember to have the dressing served “on-the-side.”calories and 10 to 20 grams of fat per bar).  In some situ-
ations, snacks from home are the best solution (see sidebar:
Snacks With About 100 Calories, this page).
Remember that your weight is stable only when the
calories you eat equal the calories you burn.  If you are heavierthan you want to be, just one “extra” portion or snack—ifconsistently eaten—can keep you from losing weight.Important questions to ask yourself are “Am I really hungry?”“Do I really want a snack?”  If you do choose to eat a snack,be sure it is planned, and be sure it is nutritious.
WHAT’SF O R SUPPER ?
The evening meal is often the only time of the day whenthe family sits down together.  Unfortunately, a leisurelysupper usually gives way to evening demands such as aschool meeting, a child’s soccer game, or your own “homework.”  Sometimes the very thought of preparing a nutri-tious supper seems overwhelming after a hectic day.However, with a little planning, you can still eat well.
Make Time for the Evening Meal
If possible, make time for supper.  The evening meal isoften the main meal of the day.  It therefore can go a longway to ensure that you get all of your daily nutrient require-ments.  In addition, a satisfying supper decreases yourchances of eating an unplanned after-supper snack.
Enticing Evening Meals
T ry to incorporate food from each food group into yourevening meal.  Make an effort to eat more plant-basedfoods.  These nicely complement smaller servings of leanmeats and low-fat dairy products.  T ry cuisine from otherparts of the world—particularly those that feature grains,vegetables, and fruits as the centerpiece of the meal.  Makeyour meals interesting by varying the colors, textures, andshapes of foods.  You do not have to be a great chef to givesupper the visual appeal that everyone wants to eat.  Fruitsand vegetables add color and all the vitamins, minerals,and fiber your body needs.
Breads come in a broad variety of shapes and textures—
from long, thin French baguettes to braided challah breadto the blackest of pumpernickels.  The same goes for pasta.In addition to your usual favorites, try whole-wheat spaghetti,farfalle (bow-tie), fusilli (little springs), orzo (rice-shaped),or ziti (large tubes).  For more color, try spinach or tomato-84Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
FRUIT GROUP
1 large orange
1 medium apple or pear1 small banana1 whole  grapefruit2 medium plums24 grapes
VEGETABLE GROUP
Up to 2 cups of any cut-up, raw vegetables:
carrot or celery stickssweet bell pepper stripsbroccoli and cauliflower floretssummer squash slicesmushroomsradishestomato wedgessalsa (1 cup)
GRAIN GROUP
One-half English muffin1 slice whole-grain bread2 rice or popcorn cakes2 pretzel rods
3/4 cup cereal (ready-to-eat, 
low-fat, no added sugar)
4 bread sticks4 cups air-popped popcorn12 baked tortilla chips1 ounce (mini-bag) pretzel sticks
MILKGROUP
1/2 cup sugar-free pudding
made with skim milk
1/2 cup low-fat cottage cheese1/2 cup frozen yogurt
1 cup fat-free yogurt1 cup skim milk or 1 percent2 1-ounce sticks of string cheese 
(part-skim mozzarella)SNACKS WITHABOUT 100 C ALORIESflavored (and colored) pastas.  Instead of plain white rice,
try basmati, jasmine rice, or nutrient-rich brown rice.  Wild
rice (not really a “rice” but a seed from a type of grass) adds
both crunch and a nutty flavor to a meal.
Instead of red meat, eat fish and poultry more often.
Seafood cases are stocked with a wide variety of fish filletsand “steaks” from around the world.  In addition to domes-tic chicken or turkey, poultry choices include wild gamebirds and small “hens.”   When you choose a red meat, eata lean cut and vary the seasonings.  T ry to have some meat-less meals.  A supper containing legumes, beans, and othervegetarian fare is high in protein and low in saturated fat.
Top off the evening meal with fresh fruit and a selection
of low-fat cheese, a fresh whole-grain cake, frozen low-fatyogurt, ice cream, or sherbet.  A fine wine, a cup of café aulait, and a delicious dessert, if part of the day’s meal plan, cannicely complement a well-prepared and well-presented meal.
Make It Quick
Evening meals can be quick and yet still contain the fresh-est of ingredients.  Keep in mind that fruits and vegeta-bles are tasty, nutritious, and easy to prepare.  Quick buthealthful suppers can be made from carefully selected dried,canned, frozen, or bottled foods.  Plan to eat leftovers at times
when you know you won’t have time to cook.  Cooking morewhen you are able, freezing a portion or two, and having iton hand when time is tight all can help you avoid skippingsupper or grabbing something that you know you shouldnot eat.
Dining Out
Eating out is an American passion.  In fact, Americansspend almost half their food dollars in restaurants.  Withthe wide array of restaurants that are available in most com-munities, dining out should be a pleasure rather than athreat to your resolve to eat well.
Listed here are five points to remember when you eat out.
Think of these as five tips for eating well when eating out.  
Choose restaurants that help you achieve your daily 5
or more servings of fruits and vegetablesChoose restaurants that offer a wide selection of fruits andvegetables.  Look for fruit and vegetable selections in theappetizer, entrée, and dessert menus which are preparedwithout added fat.  Choose ethnic and vegetarian restau-rants that feature grain- and vegetable-based meals.  Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 85
Lower the fat in four ways
When ordering, consider these four methods to lower the
amount of fat in your meals:
Cooking method —If the menu item is described as fried
or sautéed, ask that it be baked or broiled.  This simplerequest can save 10 to 30 grams of fat and about 100 to 300unwanted calories.
“On the side” —Ask for the sauce, condiment, salad
dressing, or topping to be put “on the side.”  If a dish is pre-pared with a high-fat sauce (such as Alfredo, cream sauce,cheese, or gravy), request that it be placed on the side or askfor a lower-fat alternative such as a marinara sauce.  Otherhigh-fat condiments and toppings (such as butter or sourcream) should also be on the side so you can control howmuch you use.
Serving size —Bigger is not necessarily better, especially
when it comes to calories, fat, and your health.  Terms suchas “mammoth,” “deluxe,” and “hearty” are your tip-offs.Order smaller portions.  Ask for a “take-home” container,or plan to share your meal with your dinner companion soyou do not feel obligated to eat it all.  
Substitute lower-fat choices —Make sure that your meal
has plenty of grains, vegetables, and fruits.  Take meat awayfrom center stage by starting with a tossed salad.  Ask forextra steamed vegetables.  The bread basket generally offersa whole-grain choice.  Don’t forget to finish the meal withfresh fruit, sherbet, or sorbet and a glass of low-fat milk.  T ryto avoid the high-fat, calorie-rich desserts that you willlater wish you had not eaten.
Limit meat to 3 ounces per serving (or no more than 
6 ounces per day)Health experts agree that Americans eat too much meat(including poultry and fish), especially in light of the factthat our bodies need only a relatively small amount ofprotein.  Large portions of meat almost invariably contributeexcess calories, fat, and cholesterol to the meal.  A 3-ounceportion is about the size of a deck of cards.  Whenever youeat meat, poultry, or fish, try to be sure that you eat a totalof only 6 ounces per day (see sidebar:  “Cut” Your Portionsof Meat, this page).
Limit alcohol to 2 drinks (1 if you are a woman)
Most authorities suggest that alcohol be limited to 2 drinksper day if you are a man, 1 drink per day if you are a woman.All alcohol-containing drinks contain calories (see sidebar:A Drink Defined..., page 87).Make eating well your number 1 priority
Restaurants are in the business of satisfying their customers.Ask your server to recommend the most healthful foodsthe kitchen can prepare.  Do not rely on “heart-healthy”symbols on the menu.  These foods may be low in choles-terol, but they still may be high in total fat, saturated fat,and calories.  Feel free to request low-fat foods or that morevegetables and fruits be added to your meal.  Ask yourserver to clarify unfamiliar terms and to answer any ofyour questions.
Ethnic Cuisine:  Your Passport 
to Healthful Meals
Ethnic restaurants and grocery stores offer a wide variety of
culinary alternatives.  Often, ethnic cuisines are plant-based, and thus many people assume they are healthful.However, that is not always the case.  Some guidelinesbelow, in addition to the suggestions previously mentioned,will help you to savor the exotic flavors while keepingcalories, fat, cholesterol, and sodium under control.  
Asian cuisine features rice, noodles, and vegetables with
little or no meat.  However, it may not be as healthful as onebelieves.  For example, fried rice is just what it says—fried.Therefore, white rice or, even better, brown rice would bea healthier option.  If you are dining at an Asian restaurant,make sure to request that little oil be used in preparation,86Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
8-O UNCE 3-O UNCE
PORTION PORTION
CALORIES FAT CALORIES FAT
(GRAMS )( GRAMS )
Prime rib of beef 960 83 360 31Lamb chop 775 66 298 25Sirloin beef steak 745 59 280 22Pork chop 454 20 175 8Roasted chicken 
breast (with-out skin) 380 8 145 3
Broiled fish 240 2 90 T race“CUT” YOURPORTIONS OF MEAT
Note the savings in calories and fat with smaller portions of meat.and if your portion is large, split it with someone.  Stir-
fry, grilled meat, or chicken skewers are healthful choices.
To decrease sodium, limit foods with soy sauce, salt, and
monosodium glutamate (MSG).
Many staples of the Middle Eastern, Indian, and
Pakistani cuisines are low-fat, low-sodium items such aspita bread, rice, couscous, and lentils.  However, keep inmind that these foods often are combined with largeamounts of butter, coconut oil, or palm oil.  Request foodswithout the added fats and that sauces be put on the side.Healthful selections include kabobs or fish that is grilled, rice,couscous, or orzo.
Greek and Mediterranean food is based on pasta, bread,
and rice.  It is often the sauce that accompanies the grainthat adds calories and fat.  Sauces to watch out for includepesto and cream-based sauces.  Red sauces are usually quitelow in calories and fat.  If ordering a pizza, remember thatthe meat and cheese are the culprits for calories and fat.Order a pizza with one meat item at the most, request halfthe cheese, and load on the vegetables.
Finally, Caribbean, Mexican, and Central and South
American cuisine includes whole grains, corn, rice, flourtortillas, beans (pinto, red, black), and salsa.  CondimentsChapter 4:  Planning Meals 87
CALORIES ALCOHOL (GRAMS )
Beer—12 ounces
Beer 150 13Light beer 100 12No-alcohol beer 60 trace
Wine—5 ounces
Wine 100 14Light wine 80 8Spritzer (12 ounces) 120 17
Spirits—1.5 ounces
80 proof 100 14
Remember—mixes such as sweetened sodas, juices, and sugary
syrups mean extra calories.A D RINK DEFINED …
Health professionals recommend no more than 2 drinks
daily for men, 1 drink for women.  A drink is equal to 12ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, 1.5 ounces of 80-proofspirits, or the equal amount of alcohol in other beverages.Alcohol can impair judgment.  Never drink and drive.
are an issue, so be sure to request less cheese, and have sour
cream and guacamole on the side.  Grilled fish and chicken
are best bets as main courses.  Fresh vegetables and fruits
accompany most meals.
GROCERY SHOPPING :
ANOTHER KEY TO HEALTHFUL MEALS
When it comes to eating at home, your meals can only beas good as the food you have in your kitchen.  Stock yourkitchen with foods that help you eat well.  Be sure youhave plenty of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains on handso you translate your plan for healthful eating into enjoy-able and nutritious meals.
Make a List
Make a grocery list.  A mental list may work, but a struc-tured plan generally is more effective.  A written list helpsensure that you select the ingredients and foods that youwant rather than things you select on impulse.  A checklistalso can save time by avoiding the need to come back to pickup forgotten items.
At the Store
Most Americans make one or more trips to the grocerystore every week.  Some people consider grocery shoppinga form of entertainment, but others regard it as a chore.  Nomatter how you feel about shopping, a few strategies canmake your investment of time worthwhile.Shop the perimeter —The freshest foods generally are
located along the perimeter of the store.  These includefresh fruits, vegetables, breads, dairy products, and meats.Choose whole-grain breads from the bakery, low-fat productsfrom the dairy section, and lean cuts from the meat section.Higher-fat foods often are stocked in the interior of thestore.  However, grains, legumes, pastas, and canned fruitsand vegetables also are frequently located in the interior.
Shop from your list —A list helps ensure that you stick
to your plan.  Items purchased on impulse generally aremore expensive and less nourishing than foods from a well-planned shopping list.
Do not shop when hungry —If you go to the store
with a growling stomach, you are apt to make purchases tosatisfy your immediate hunger rather than what you willneed in the days ahead.  You also tend to buy more.Shopping on a full stomach helps you stick to your list andto keep your resolve.
Make bargains count —A bargain is only a bargain
when you buy what you want rather than what someone elseis trying to sell you.  Select bargains that fit your menu, suchas in-season fruits and vegetables or bulk quantities of rice,beans, and legumes.  Use coupons to reduce the cost offoods that you intend to buy.  
Label Smarts
Understanding food labels helps you become a savvy shop-per.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture has establishedrequirements for food labels in order to make nutritioninformation accurate, clear, consistent, and useful to con-sumers.  Food labels provide four different types of infor-mation:  nutrition facts, a list of ingredients, nutrients,and health claims.
Nutrient facts and ingredients
Labels tell you almost everything you need to know aboutwhat is contained in the food.  The Nutrition Facts paneltells you how many calories and how much fat, choles-terol, protein, and carbohydrate are in a single serving of thefood.  It also tells you the fiber, vitamin (A and C), andmineral (sodium, potassium, calcium, and iron) contentsof the food.  This information allows you to compare thenutrients found in similar foods.  For example, you cancompare two yogurts for their calorie and fat content.Ingredients are listed in descending order by weight, withthe first item listed being the predominant one in the food.By reading the label, you can tell which foods have added88Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Use labels to compare similar foods
and to make the healthiest choices.saturated fats or  ingredients to which you may be intolerant.
Use the label to select the best choices—foods  that are
high in nutrients and low in calories and fat.
To help you make the wisest choices, acquaint yourself
with each of the components of the label (see sidebar:Anatomy of a Food Label, below).  Some foods, such asfresh fruits, vegetables, and bulk items, do not have nutritionlabels.  The nutrition information for these foods generallyeither is on display nearby or is available elsewhere in the
store as a handout.  When in doubt, ask the store personnelfor assistance.
Nutrient and health claims
In addition to the amounts of various nutrients and ingre-dients found in foods, food labels may carry other typesof information.  The label may state that the food is a “goodChapter 4:  Planning Meals 89
ANATOMY OF A FOOD LABEL
At first glance, a food label may look intimidating.  But as you become familiar 
with the format, you’ll see how the label can help you compare products for nutritional quality.
SERVING SIZE :
Nutrition information
is based on consistentand realistic servingsizes that include both household andmetric measures.  This makes it easier to compare products.CALORIES FROM FAT :
This informationunderscores the fatcontent per servingof foods to help youmeet the recom-mendation of nomore than 30 percentof calories from fat.Remember, it’s yourtotal fat intake over a period of time(such as 24 hours),and not the amountin one food or meal,that’s important.
PERCENT DAILY VALUE :
The percent dailyvalues show thepercentage of a nutrient that is provided by this product serving, based on a 2,000-calorie diet.  Use the percent daily value figures tocompare products easily and to tellwhether a food is high or low in nutrients.NUTRIENTS :
At a minimum, allcalories, caloriesfrom fat, total fat,saturated fat, choles-
terol, sodium, total
carbohydrate, dietaryfiber, sugars, protein,vitamins A and C,calcium, and ironare listed.  Expertsbelieve that too muchor too little of thesenutrients has thegreatest impact onyour health.
CALORIES PER GRAM :
This shows the caloriecontent of the energy-producing nutrients.Nutrition Facts
Serving size 1/2 cup (114 g)Servings per container 4
Amount per serving
Calories 90 Calories from fat 30
Percent Daily Value*
Total fat 3 g 5%
Saturated fat 0 g 0%
Cholesterol 0 mg 0%
Sodium 300 mg 13%
Total carbohydrate 13 g 4%
Dietary fiber 3 g 12%
Sugars 3 g
Protein 3 g
Vitamin A 80% Vitamin C 60%
Calcium 4% Iron 4%
*Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000-calorie diet.  Your daily values
may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs:
Calories 2,000 2,500
Total fat Less than 65 g 80 g
Saturated fat Less than 20 g 25 g
Cholesterol Less than 300 mg 300 mgSodium Less than 2,400 mg 2,400 mgTotal carbohydrate 300 g 375 g
Fiber 25 g 30 g
Calories per gram:
Fat   9 Carbohydrate   4 Protein   4{90Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
source” of a given nutrient.  Nutrient claims help guide you
more quickly to certain products.  Products also may claim
that they benefit certain health conditions.  Health claims
may suggest that eating a food alters your risk for certaindiseases such as heart disease, cancer, or osteoporosis.  Thegovernment regulates these claims so they are truthful andmeet certain criteria.  Manufacturers are not required by lawto carry nutrient or health claims.  (See sidebars:  NutrientClaims, page 92, and Health Claims, page 93.)
FOODS AND ISSUES YOUMAYHAVE
WONDERED ABOUT
Farming methods are rapidly evolving.  New foods andnovel ingredients are continuously being introduced into themarketplace.  Pesticides and fertilizers are used to increaseyields.  Genetic engineering potentially can produce safer,more nutritious, and cheaper forms of foods.  Substitutes(such as sugar, fat, and salt substitutes) enable some peopleto eat foods that would otherwise endanger their health.However, not everyone would agree that these changes arean advance because many have been accompanied by uncer-tainty and, in some instances, controversy.  What aboutadditives?  Organic foods?  Irradiated foods?  What does itmean when a food is enriched or fortified?  Read on.
What About Pesticides?
Pesticides and modern pest management practices havehelped to ensure that we have a reliable, affordable, varied,nutritious, and safe food supply.  Pesticides are chemicalsthat kill or prevent the growth of weeds (herbicides), bac-teria (disinfectants and antibiotics), molds and fungi (fungi-cides), and harmful insects (insecticides).  Some pesticidesoccur naturally in soil, whereas others are found in com-pounds isolated from particular plants.  Many farmers tryto control pests in the most effective, least disruptive mannerby practicing what is known as integrated pest manage-ment.  This approach includes companion planting withplants that contain natural pesticides, crop rotation, useof sterile strains of insects or insect pheromones (to alterreproduction patterns and thereby reduce the insect pop-ulation), natural insect predators, pest-resistant plant strains,mathematical forecasting techniques, and, when necessary,chemical pesticides.
Should you worry about pesticide residues?  The answer
is a qualified “no.”  The upper limit of the amount of pesticideresidue permitted on both raw and processed foods hasbeen carefully established and is enforced by several gov-ernment agencies.  These upper limits are far less than thelevels of exposure that are considered harmful.  However,to reduce your exposure to pesticide residues further, youcan take the following steps:• Carefully select the produce you buy (avoid cuts, holes,
or signs of decay).
• Thoroughly wash all produce with water (not soap)
to remove surface residues.
• Scrub carrots and potatoes and other root vegetables
thoroughly.  Wash other fresh fruits and vegetableswith a brush.  Resist the temptation to peel apples,pears, cucumbers, potatoes, and other produce withedible skin, because peeling removes a valuable sourceof fiber.
• Remove the outer leaves (and any inner leaves that
appear to be damaged) from leafy vegetables such aslettuce and cabbage.
• Eat a variety of foods rather than large amounts of a
single food.
What About Food Additives?
Contrary to what many of us think, food additives havebeen used for centuries (and until the past 100 or so years,without much regard for health considerations).  Additivesplay various roles in foods.  Some additives act as preserv-atives, preventing spoilage, loss of flavor, texture, or nutri-tive value.  These include antioxidants such as vitamin E,BHA (butylated hydroxyanisole), BHT (butylated hydroxy-toluene), citric acid, and sulfites; calcium propionate; sodi-um nitrite (which prevents infection by the dangerousbacteria that causes botulism); and other antimicrobials(germ-fighting additives).  Other additives are used asemulsifiers to prevent foods from separating.  Emulsifiersinclude lecithin from soy, egg yolks, or milk and mono-glycerides and diglycerides.  The leavening agents sodiumbicarbonate (baking soda and powder) and yeast allowbaked goods to rise.  Stabilizers and thickeners create andmaintain an even texture and flavor in foods such as icecream and pudding.  Many foods are also fortified orenriched with vitamins, minerals, or proteins or their com-ponent amino acids (see page 25).
The government strictly regulates food additives.  The
safety and effectiveness of each newly proposed additivemust be rigorously tested.  Some 700 additives belong toa group of substances referred to as GRAS substances(Generally Recognized As Safe) because
extensive testing and use have shown no evi-
dence of adverse effects.  Continued approval
requires that all additives, including GRAS
substances, must be reev aluated r egularly with
the latest scientific methods.  According tolaw, additives and preservatives must be list-ed on food labels.  People who are sensitiveto certain additives such as sulfites or mono-sodium glutamate should be sure to readlabels for additive information.
Organic Foods:  
Are They Really Better?
If pesticides and food additives pose any
potential risk at all, would we be better offeating only “organically grown” foods?  Whatis an organic food?  Organic farming methodsare those that use only nonsynthetic products(substances that are naturally found in theenvironment).
Can you be sure that the organic products you buy are
really grown and produced organically?  In 1998, Congressenacted the Organic Foods Production Act, which regulatesproduction and processing standards for organic foods.This act specifies that foods sold as “organically grown” or“organically processed” must be certified by the U.S.Department of Agriculture.  However, organically pro-duced foods may not be 100 percent organic.  By law, theymust have at least 50 percent of their ingredients producednaturally, and organically processed foods must contain atleast 95 percent organically produced ingredients.  
Are these foods better?  Not necessarily.  Nutritionally,
organically grown foods may not be significantly differentfrom the same products grown with conventional farmingtechniques.  The nutrient content of a product is determinedby many factors, including the composition of the soil, thegenetic makeup of the plant, the degree of maturity atharvest, and methods of handling after harvest.  The tasteof organic products may or may not differ from that ofconventionally grown foods.  Organic methods tend to bemore costly (in terms of both labor and materials),production is lower, and consumer prices tend to be high-er.  In addition, organic methods are not always safer.  Somepesticides reduce the risk of exposure to certain harmfulorganisms that represent a much greater potential risk thandoes exposure to the pesticide.  In most instances, personalpreference rather then proven benefit determines whether
you choose to eat an organic food.  
What About Irradiated Foods?
Until the 1800s, soaking in salt and natural fermentationwere the most commonly used methods for food preservation.This changed with the introduction of canning in the 1800s.Pasteurization began to be used in the late 1800s to kill harm-ful bacteria, freezing in the early 1900s to extend the shelflife of foods, and freeze drying in the 1960s to preserve foods.  
Food is irradiated when it is passed through a beam of
radiant energy.  Irradiated foods are not radioactive.Irradiation does not diminish the importance of safe foodhandling (see Chapter 5, Food Safety, page 148), nor doesit improve the quality of food.  However, irra-diation can extend the shelf life, reducefood wastage, and reduce food prices.Most importantly, irradiation candestroy bacteria that cause food-borne illness.  Food irradiation isstrictly controlled by the Food andChapter 4:  Planning Meals 91
Government regulations require irradiated food at the retail
level to be labeled "Treated with Radiation" or "Treated by
Irradiation" and to bear this international logo, the radura. Drug Administration (FDA).  All irradiated foods carry a
symbol and the phrase “T reated by Irradiation.”  However,
when irradiated foods are used  in a restaurant, they are not
required to be labeled.
What About Genetically Engineered Foods?
Modern genetic-engineering techniques are a refinement of
traditional plant-breeding methods.  Genetic engineersfirst select a desired plant  trait.  They then isolate andmodify the gene(s) responsible for the trait.  Finally, theyattempt to introduce the altered gene into other plants.In essence, genetic engineering accelerates the natural mix-ing of genes that normally would occur among various
plant species.
Genetic engineering of plants has yielded several
benefits.  Farmers can protect crops against weeds withgenetically engineered biodegradable herbicides that needfewer applications.  Genetic engineering also can extend thetime before spoilage begins, enabling growers to harvestfoods closer to peak freshness.  Crops can be geneticallyengineered to be drought- and temperature-resistant.Genetic engineering can increase crop yields and enableplants to tolerate a wider range of climates.  Genetic engi-neering also can increase the amount and quality of proteinin beans and in grains such as rice.
Although there are benefits associated with genetically
engineered foods, there also are lingering questions aboutthe long-term effects on the environment and the abilityof producers and the government to ensure the safety ofthe process. Therefore, the debate continues regarding
how genetically engineered foods should be developed andregulated.
What Do the Terms “Fortified” and
“Enriched” Mean?
Do you know the difference between the terms “fortified”
and “enriched”?  Both words indicate that nutrients havebeen added to the food.  Fortified means that nutrientswere added that were not there originally.  Enriched meansthat nutrients lost during processing are replaced.  Fortifiedand enriched foods have helped eliminate many once-common nutritional deficiency diseases.
Salt was the first commercial food item in the United
States to be fortified with additional nutrients.  Since 1924,potassium iodide has been added to table salt to help preventgoiter (an enlarged thyroid that may result from iodinedeficiency).92Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
TERM PERSERVING SIZE ON LABEL
Free Contains no, or only “physiologically or
inconsequential” amounts of, fat, satu-rated fat, cholesterol, sodium, sugars,and calories
Reduced At least 25 percent lower in the nutrient
than the standard product
Lite, light At least 50 percent less fat
50 percent less sodium; one-third fewer
calories (must also contain less than 50 percent of calories from fat)
Low Low fat:  3 grams or less 
Low cholesterol:  20 milligrams or lessLow saturated fat:  1 gram or less Low sodium:  140 milligrams or lessVery low sodium:  35 milligrams or lessLow calorie:  40 calories or less
High 20 percent or more of the Daily Value
Fiber:  5 grams or morePotassium:  700 milligrams or moreVitamin A:  1,000 IU or moreVitamin C:  12 milligrams or moreFolate:  80 micrograms or moreIron:  3.6 milligrams or more
Good source 10 to 19 percent of the Daily Value
Fiber:  2.5 to less than 5 gramsPotassium:  350 to less than 700 milligramsVitamin A:  500 to less than 1,000 IUVitamin C:  6 to less than 12 milligramsFolate:  40 to less than 80 microgramsIron:  1.8 to less than 3.6 milligrams
Healthy Food that is low in fat and saturated fat,
480 milligrams or less sodium, and at least10 percent Daily Value for vitamin A,vitamin C, calcium, iron, protein, or fiber
Lean Less than 10 grams total fat, 4.5 grams
saturated fat, and  95 milligrams choles-terol per 100 grams (about 3 ounces)
Extra lean Less than 5 grams total fat, 2 grams satu-
rated fat, and 95 milligrams cholesterolper 100 grams (about 3 ounces)NUTRIENT CLAIMSVitamin D was first added to milk in 1933.  Rickets, a
deforming bone disease, can result from too little vitaminD.  Rickets was very common during the early part of thecentury when working children were deprived of nutri-tious diets and sunlight.
Flour, and products made with flour, were first fortified
with vitamins and iron in 1940 at the start of World WarII.  The goal was to build strong, healthy armies by feedingtroops well-fortified diets.Most breakfast cereals are fortified to provide about 25
percent of most daily nutrients.  Many of these vitaminsmay dissolve into the milk that you pour over the cereal, soit is important to drink the milk at the bottom of the bowl.(Plus, milk itself provides its own nutrients.)
Most recently, folic acid has joined the list of fortifiers
added to grain-based (bread, cereal, pasta, rice) foods tohelp meet nutrient needs and to reduce the incidence ofbirth defects and possibly the risk of heart disease.Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 93
DISEASE /NUTRIENT OR FOOD EXAMPLE OF A HEALTH CLAIM
Osteoporosis/calcium Regular exercise and a healthy diet with enough calcium help teens and
young adult white and Asian women maintain good bone health and mayreduce their high risk of osteoporosis later in life.
Cancer/fat Development of cancer depends on many factors.  A diet low in total fat
may reduce the risk of some cancers.
Cancer/fiber-containing foods Low-fat diets rich in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables
may reduce the risk of some types of cancer, a disease associated withmany factors.
Cancer/fruits and vegetables Low-fat diets rich in fruits and vegetables (foods that are low in fat and
may contain dietary fiber, vitamin A, or vitamin C) may reduce the riskof some types of cancer, a disease associated with many factors.  Broccoli
is high in vitamins A and C, and it is a good source of dietary fiber.
Heart disease/fiber-containing foods Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and rich in fruits, vegetables,
and grain products which contain some types of dietary fiber, particularlysoluble fiber, may reduce the risk of heart disease, a disease associatedwith many factors.
Heart disease/saturated fat and cholesterol While many factors affect heart disease, diets low in saturated fat and
cholesterol may reduce the risk of this disease.
Hypertension/sodium Diets low in sodium may reduce the risk of high blood pressure, a disease
associated with many factors.
Birth defects/folic acid Healthful diets with adequate folate may reduce a woman’s risk of having
a child with a brain or spinal cord defect.HEALTH CLAIMS
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) strictly regulates health claims.  They must be supported by 
scientific evidence to appear on food labels.  The foods must also meet specific nutrient requirements.  
Below are several examples of FDA-approved health claims.94Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionChapter 4:  Planning Meals 95
TwoWeeks of Menus
The following pages contain 14 days’ worth of nutritionally balanced menus. The menus emphasize whole grains,
fresh fruits, and vegetables.  They are low in fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol, moderate in sodium, and high 
in taste.  In addition, they are a great source of health-enhancing phytonutrients.  The actual guidelines for the menus are listed below. 
The serving sizes are based on the Food Guide Pyramid (see 
Chapter 1, page 11). For each day, the breakdown of servings from the Food Guide Pyramid is provided.
Accompanying each menu, there is one recipe.  Use these 
menus as a guide to begin to eat a more nutritiously balanced 
diet.  As needed, make adjustments to suit your needs.  If you 
need additional (or fewer) calories, simply add or take away a serving.  If you need to add servings, we suggest adding a whole grain, piece of fresh fruit, or more vegetables.
These menus take the information that has been 
discussed throughout the book and help you put it on the table.  Bon appetit.
MENUGUIDELINES
Calories 1,800-2,000Fat (less than 30% of calories) Less than 60 gramsSaturated fat (less than 8% of calories) Less than 16 gramsCholesterol Less than 300 milligramsDietary fiber 20-35 gramsSodium Less than 2,400 milligrams
FOOD GROUPS TARGETED NUMBER OF SERVINGS /DAY
Sweets SparinglyFats, oils (emphasis on monounsaturated) About 3Meat, poultry, fish, legumes, nuts, seeds
(emphasis on poultry, fish, legumes, nuts, and seeds) 2 servings
Dairy (emphasis on low fat) About 3+Vegetables (emphasis on fresh) About 4Fruits (emphasis on fresh) About 4Grains (emphasis on whole) About 8
Note: A chef and a registered dietitian planned the menus and recipes.  The dietitian analyzed the recipes and menus for
their nutrient contents.day1
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 2,000 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 58 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 13 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 80 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 24 20-35
Sodium (mg) 1,800 Less than 2,400Breakfast
2 whole-wheat pancakes—top with 1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1 cup nonfat fruit-flavored yogurtCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Southwest Caesar Salad (see recipe below)6 wheat crackers1 fresh orange1 cup skim milk
Evening
Broccoli and walnut stir fry (1 tsp sesame oil, 1 cup broccoli florets, 
1/2 cup chopped red or yellow pepper, 1/2 tsp soy sauce, 3 ounces tofu, 1/3 cup chopped walnuts)
1 cup cooked brown rice1 whole-grain roll1 Tblsp honeyHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 1/2 ounces low-fat cheddar cheese2 crisp rye wafers6 ounces pineapple juiceFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 1
Legumes/nuts 3
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 5
Fruit 3
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 220
Fat (g) 3
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 25
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 230Day  1  Recipe
Southwest Caesar Salad
Serves 4
8 cups romaine lettuce
1/2 cup fat-free croutons2 cups cubed cooked chicken breast1 can (14 to 16 ounces) low-sodium kidney, black, or pinto beans, drained1 can (8 ounces) low-sodium whole-kernel corn, drained1 medium tomato, cut into wedges1 medium red, yellow, or green bell pepper, thinly sliced1/2 medium onion, thinly sliced1/4 cup fat-free Caesar dressing2 Tblsp Parmesan cheese, grated
Combine romaine lettuce and croutons with chicken, beans, corn, tomato, bell pepper,
and onion in a large serving bowl.  Pour dressing over salad; toss to coat evenly.  Topwith Parmesan cheese.96Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionChapter 4 :  Planning Meals 9798Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 2
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,850 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 40 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 7 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 270 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 29 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,375 Less than 2,400Breakfast
Herbed scrambled eggs (1 egg, 2 egg whites, 2 tsp chopped chives or 1/4 tsp dill)
2 slices whole-wheat toast1 tsp soft margarine1/2 grapefruit1 cup skim milkCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
T una salad on whole-wheat bread (3 ounces flaked tuna,* fat-free mayonnaise, 
lettuce, cucumber, tomato slices, and a few sliced olives as toppings)
1 cup tossed spring greens2 Tblsp fat-free herbed salad dressing1 kiwi fruit1 cup skim milk
Evening
2 Tacos With Sautéed Vegetables and Smoky Salsa (see recipe below)1 cup Spanish rice1 cup tossed green salad2 Tblsp fat-free red wine vinaigrette dressing1/4 cantaloupeHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 cup low-fat vanilla yogurt1 sliced banana
*Reduced sodium and water-packed variety recommended.Food Servings
Actual
Sweets 0
Fats 4
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 5 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 5
Fruit 4
Grains 9
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 350
Fat (g) 8
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 10
Fiber (g) 8
Sodium (mg) 450Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 99
Day 2 Recipe
Soft Tacos With Sautéed Vegetables and Smoky Salsa
Serves 4
Heat oil in large skillet; add onion and cook until tender.  Add squash and zucchini, stir,
and continue cooking about 5 minutes.  Add garlic, half the tomatoes, and all of the
jalapeno pepper.  Reduce heat to medium-low and cook until vegetables are tender.Add corn kernels; stir and cook until kernels are tender crisp.  Add cilantro, remainingtomatoes, and beans.  Stir together and remove from heat.  “Warm” the tortillas in ahot, dry skillet.  Fill each tortilla with the vegetable mixture.  Top with salsa and serve.1 Tblsp olive oil1 medium red onion, chopped1 cup yellow summer squash, sliced1 cup green zucchini, sliced3 large garlic cloves, finely chopped4 medium tomatoes, seeded and chopped1 jalapeno pepper, seeded and choppedKernels from 2 ears of corn (1 cup)
1/2 cup fresh cilantro, chopped1 cup canned pinto or black beans, rinsed
and drained
8 corn tortillas (7-inch diameter)1/2 cup smoky-flavored salsa100 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
day 3
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,810 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 40 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 10 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 120 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 26 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,225 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 spiced muffin
2 Tblsp fruit spread1 banana1 cup skim milk
Noon
Hamburger on bun (3 ounces extra-lean ground beef, tomato slices, 
shredded lettuce, whole-grain bun)
1 ounce (individual bag) pretzels2 cups tossed salad (lettuce, cucumbers, mushrooms, bell peppers)2 Tblsp fat-free French dressing15 grapesSparkling water
Evening
Chicken and Couscous Vegetable Salad (see recipe below) on baby greens1 whole-grain roll1 Tblsp honeyMoro orange (blood orange)1 cup skim milk
Snack (anytime)
4 crispy rye wafers1 1/2 ounces reduced-fat Swiss cheeseFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 2
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 5 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 4
Grains 8
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 237
Fat (g) 6
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 29
Fiber (g) 6Sodium (mg) 340Day 3 Recipe
Chicken and Couscous Vegetable Salad
Serves 6
Pour broth into saucepan; bring to a boil.  Stir in couscous.  Remove from heat; cover,
and let stand 5 minutes.  Stir with fork.
Stir together couscous, chicken, asparagus, bell pepper, tomato, and celery in a bowl.
Add dressing.  Stir evenly to coat.  Serve at room temperature or chilled.  Just beforeserving, sprinkle with toasted almonds.1 1/2 cups low-sodium chicken broth1 cup uncooked couscous (pearl type)1 1/2 cups cooked chicken or turkey, 
chopped
1/2 pound asparagus, cut into 2-inch 
pieces, cooked and drained1 1/2 cups chopped green or yellow 
bell pepper
1 medium tomato, chopped1/2 cup celery, diced1/2 cup fat-free Italian dressing2 Tblsp sliced almonds, toastedChapter 4 :  Planning Meals 101102 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 4
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,900 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 36 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 14 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 146 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 30 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,200 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 English muffin
2 Tblsp fat-free cream cheese1 cup fresh strawberriesCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Greek salad (2 cups mixed greens, cucumber slices, cherry tomatoes, 
onion slices, 1 1/2 ounces feta cheese, 5 ripe olives, 1/4 cup dates, lemon juice, 1 tsp olive oil, vinegar, oregano, to taste)
2 bread sticks1 fresh pear1 cup skim milk
Evening
Quick Pork With Pineapple-Orange-Basil Sauce (see recipe below)1 cup cooked brown rice with chopped apples1 cup steamed baby carrots1 whole-grain roll1 Tblsp fruit spreadHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 cup frozen low-fat yogurt1/2 cup berriesFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 0
Meat, poultry, fish 4 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 5
Fruit 6
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 230
Fat (g) 5
Saturated fat (g) 2
Cholesterol (mg) 80
Fiber (g) T raceSodium (mg) 60Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 103
Day 4 Recipe
Quick Pork With Pineapple-Orange-Basil Sauce
Serves 4
In large skillet, cook and stir pork over medium-high heat in hot oil 3 to 5 minutes 
or until pork is no longer pink.  Remove pork, drain.
Stir together juice, garlic, cornstarch, basil, and orange peel in skillet until blended.
Bring to a boil; cook 2 minutes or until sauce is slightly thickened.  Return pork toskillet; cook 1 minute or until heated through.
Arrange pork slices along with orange slices on dinner plates;  sprinkle with green
onion.  Top with sauce.  Serve immediately.1 pound pork tenderloin, cut into 1/4-inch
slices (may also substitute turkey breast)
1 tsp vegetable oil1 cup pineapple juice2 garlic cloves, finely chopped2 tsp cornstarch
1 1/2 tsp dried basil leaves, crushed1 tsp grated orange peel2 oranges, sliced into rounds1 green onion, choppedday5
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,900 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 45 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 6 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 70 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 20 20-35
Sodium (mg) 1,350 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 cup old-fashioned oatmeal—topped with 1 Tblsp brown sugar
1 slice whole-wheat toast1 tsp soft margarine1 banana1 cup skim milkCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Southwestern T urkey Pocket Fajita (see recipe below)1/2 cup fresh vegetables (baby carrots, celery sticks, broccoli florets)1 peach1 cup frozen low-fat yogurtSparkling water
Evening
1/4  12-inch pizza (whole-wheat crust, chunky tomato sauce, 
sliced bell pepper, onion, mushrooms, zucchini, 6 ounces mozzarella cheese,thyme and basil, to taste)
1 cup tossed greens2 Tblsp fat-free Italian salad dressing1 cup mixed fresh fruitIced tea
Snack (anytime)
1 ounce (individual bag) pretzels6 ounces orange juiceFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 0
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 3+
Vegetables 5
Fruit 5
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 395
Fat (g) 5
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 60
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 432104 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Day 5 Recipe
Southwestern Turkey Pocket Fajita
Serves 4
Stir together yogurt and lime peel in a small bowl; set aside.
Drain pineapple; reserve 2 Tblsp juice.Combine reserved juice, turkey, lime juice, and cumin in non-metallic dish.  Cover and
marinate 15 minutes in the refrigerator.
In a non-stick skillet, combine the turkey mixture and onion and cook over medium-
high heat, stirring until turkey is slightly browned.  Add bell pepper and pineapple;cook and stir 2 to 3 more minutes or until the vegetables are tender crisp and theturkey is no longer pink.1 cup nonfat plain yogurt1 tsp grated lime peel1 can (20 ounces) pineapple tidbits or chunks12 ounces turkey breast, cut into 1-inch 
cubes (may substitute pork tenderloin)
1 Tblsp lime juice1 tsp cumin
1/2  cup onion, thinly sliced1 medium green or red bell pepper, cut 
into 2-inch strips
4 (6-inch) whole-wheat pita breads, cut 
in half crosswise to make pocketsChapter 4 :  Planning Meals 105106 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 6
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,940 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 45 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 14 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 133 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 30 20-35
Sodium (mg) 1,425 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 whole-wheat bagel
2 Tblsp peanut butter1 nectarine1 cup low-fat yogurtCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Roasted vegetables on herbed focaccia bread (1 cup total of red pepper, 
eggplant, and zucchini topped with 1 1/2 ounces of part-skim mozzarella cheese)
12 baked tortilla chips1 apple1 cup skim milk
Evening
4-ounce grilled steak topped with 1 cup sautéed mushrooms1 medium baked potato topped with 1 Tblsp fat-free sour cream 
and snipped chives
1 cup steamed Brussels sprouts1 whole-grain dinner roll1 tsp soft margarinePoached Pears in Red Wine (see recipe below)Herbal tea
Snack (anytime)
2 cups popcorn6 ounces cranberry juiceFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 4 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 5
Fruit 4
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 255
Fat (g) 0
Saturated fat (g) 0
Cholesterol (mg) 0
Fiber (g) 4Sodium (mg) 5Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 107
Day 6 Recipe
Poached Pears in Red Wine
Serves 4
Peel pears, leaving stem.  Remove core from the bottom.  Lightly rub pears with cut
lemon to prevent browning.
In a heavy saucepan, combine wine, sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg.  Add pears and
bring to a boil.  T urn pears frequently to coat with mixture.  Reduce heat and simmerfor about 30 minutes or until pears are tender but still firm (a butter knife should go in easily).
Remove from pan and chill in the sauce until serving.  Serve on decorative plates and
top with sauce.4 whole pears1 fresh lemon1/2 bottle red wine1/2 cup sugar
1/2 stick cinnamon (1 tsp ground)Pinch of nutmegday 7
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 2,000 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 45 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 13 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 160 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 33 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,220 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 cup bran cereal—top with 1/2 cup dried mixed fruit
1 cup skim milkCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
1 cup split-pea soup*Sub sandwich (6-inch Italian bread, 2 tsp mustard, chopped lettuce, 
sliced tomato, onion, bell peppers, 2 ounces lean ham, 1 1/2 ounces Swiss cheese)
4 soda crackers1 appleSparkling water
Evening
Grilled Chicken With Tomato and Corn Salsa (see recipe below)1 cup Spanish rice1 cup steamed broccoli with lemon zest1/2 cup sliced mangoHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 cup raw vegetables (baby carrots, celery sticks, cauliflower florets)2 Tblsp fat-free ranch dressing (for dip)
*Homemade or reduced sodium variety is recommended.Food Servings
Actual
Sweets 0
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 5 ounces
Milk 2
Vegetables 5
Fruit 4
Grains 9
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 340
Fat (g) 15
Saturated fat (g) 3
Cholesterol (mg) 83
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 86108 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Day 7 Recipe
Grilled Chicken With Tomato and Corn Salsa
Serves 4
Brush the chicken breasts with oil.  Grill until no longer pink in center.
In the meantime, combine all of the salsa ingredients.  Spoon over the grilled chicken
and serve immediately.4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts1 tsp oil
Kernels from 2 cobs of cooked corn (about 1 cup)
2 tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and chopped1 shallot, chopped
1/2 cup balsamic vinegar
2 Tblsp olive oil4 basil leaves, choppedChapter 4 :  Planning Meals 109110 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionChapter 4:  Planning Meals 111
day 8
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 2,000 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 60 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 9 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 100 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 28 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,300 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 cup mixed fresh fruits (melon, berries, banana, pear, cherries)
—top with 1 cup low-fat yogurt and 1/3 cup toasted almonds
2 slices whole-wheat toast1 Tblsp honeyHerbal tea
Noon
1 cup vegetable soup*6 wheat crackersTarragon chicken sandwich on whole-wheat bread (2 slices whole-wheat bread, 
1 Tblsp fat-free mayonnaise, lettuce leaf, sliced tomato, alfalfa sprouts, 2 ounces shaved chicken, tarragon, to taste)
1 apple1 cup skim milk
Evening
Grilled Ahi T una With Mango-Pineapple Chutney (see recipe below)1/2 cup small steamed red potatoes in skin1 cup tossed greens 2 Tblsp fat-free cucumber salad dressing1 whole-wheat roll1 Tblsp honey1 cup sparkling water
Snack (anytime)
2 graham crackers1 cup skim milk
*Homemade or reduced-sodium variety is recommended.Food Servings
Actual
Sweets 2
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 5 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 5
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 325
Fat (g) 10
Saturated fat (g) 2
Cholesterol (mg) 43
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 310Day 8 Recipe
Grilled Ahi Tuna With Mango-Pineapple Chutney
Serves 4
Chutney: Measure and prepare all ingredients before assembly.  In a large sauté pan, over
medium heat add 2 tsp of the oil with ginger, jalapeno pepper, and onion.  Cook untilonions become transparent.  Add brown sugar.  When sugar is dissolved, add rice winevinegar, pineapple, and mango.  Simmer for about 5 minutes.  T urn off heat.  When mix-ture is cool, add the cilantro and season with salt.  Cover and refrigerate until serving time.
T una: Brush tuna with 2 tsp oil and grill approximately 4 to 5 minutes on each side.
Season with cracked pepper to taste.4 tsp olive or vegetable oil2 ounces fresh ginger, peeled, cored, 
and mashed
1 jalapeno pepper, seeded and diced1 red onion, finely chopped
1/4 cup packed brown sugar1/4 cup rice wine vinegar
1 cup fresh pineapple, peeled, cored, 
and finely chopped1 mango, peeled and chopped
1 small bunch fresh cilantro, 
washed and chopped
1/4 tsp salt (use sea salt for different flavor)
4 pieces ahi tuna fillets, about 4 ounces
each, 1 1/2 inches thick
Cracked pepper, to taste112 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
day 9
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,900 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 45 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 6 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 95 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 32 20-35
Sodium (mg) 1,200 Less than 2,400Breakfast
French toast (2 slices whole-wheat bread, 2 egg whites, 1/4 cup skim milk, 
1/4 tsp vanilla)—top with 1/4 tsp sugar and 1/4 tsp cinnamon
1/2 grapefruit1 cup skim milkCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Spinach salad (2 cups fresh spinach, a sliced pear, 2 Tblsp red wine vinaigrette, 
4 Tblsp sunflower seeds)
12 wheat crackers1 cup skim milk
Evening
T urkish Chicken With Spiced Dates (see recipe below)1 cup cooked couscous1 cup sautéed root vegetables (such as carrots, beets, potatoes, onions)Herbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1/2 cup frozen yogurt—top with 1/2 cup pineapple4 gingersnapsFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 1
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 4 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 5
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 330
Fat (g) 4
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 82
Fiber (g) 5Sodium (mg) 90Day 9 Recipe
Turkish Chicken With Spiced Dates
Serves 4
Coat a large skillet with non-stick cooking spray.  Cook chicken over medium heat
about 5 minutes on each side or until chicken is no longer pink in the center.  Removechicken from skillet; cover and keep warm.
To the skillet, add broth, onion, and dates; bring to boil, stirring occasionally.  Reduce
heat to low; cook until liquid is reduced by half (about 8 minutes).
Stir apricot spread and cinnamon into sauce until blended;  spoon over chicken.
Garnish with parsley and apricots.  Serve immediately.4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts 
(may also substitute 1 pound turkey breast slices)
Vegetable cooking spray1 cup low-sodium chicken broth1/2 cup onion, chopped1 box (8 ounces) chopped dates or pitted
dates that have been chopped
2 Tblsp apricot or peach fruit spread1/2 tsp ground cinnamonParsley sprigs4 fresh apricots, cut into wedgesChapter 4 :  Planning Meals 113114 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 10
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,850 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 23 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 5 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 75 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 30 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,350 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 cup wheat flakes—top with 1 peach, sliced
2 slices whole-wheat toast2 Tblsp honey1 cup skim milkCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Chicken, fresh pineapple, and black bean salad on spring greens (3 ouncesgrilled chicken, 1/2 cup pineapple, 1/2 cup black beans, 2 cups greens)1 ounce (1 individual bag) baked tortilla chips (about 12)1 cup skim milk
Evening
1 bowl (2 cups) minestrone soup*Bruschetta Pomodoro (see recipe below) on 2 slices of Italian or French bread1/2 cup fresh vegetables (baby carrots, broccoli florets, celery)2 Tblsp ranch dressing—for dip1 appleHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 cup frozen yogurt1/2 cup mixed berries
*Homemade or reduced-sodium variety is recommended.  See recipe on page
140, Chapter 5.Food Servings
Actual
Sweets 2
Fats 1
Legumes/nuts 2
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 4
Grains 7
Per serving (2 Tblsp)
in this recipe
Calories 20
Fat (g) 1
Saturated fat (g) trace
Cholesterol (mg) 0
Fiber (g) traceSodium (mg) 65Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 115
Day 10 Recipe
Bruschetta Pomodoro
Makes about 4 cups
7 to 9 Roma tomatoes, peeled, seeded, diced
3 to 4 garlic cloves, finely chopped1/2 cup fresh basil, chopped3 Tblsp virgin olive oil1/4 tsp salt (use sea salt for different flavor)Fresh cracked pepper, to taste
Combine all ingredients.  Cover and refrigerate.  Serve about 2 tablespoons over a slice
of Italian or French bread.
Note:  This also may be used as a topping over penne pasta.day 11
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,950 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 44 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 8 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 95 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 28 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,120 Less than 2,400Breakfast
Banana Raspberry Smoothie (see recipe below)
2 slices cinnamon toast (toasted whole-wheat bread, 1 tsp soft margarine, 
1/2 tsp sugar, 1/2 tsp cinnamon)
Coffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Lemon pepper chicken on rye sandwich (2 slices rye bread, 1 Tblsp fat-free 
mayonnaise, shredded lettuce, 3 ounce roasted chicken breast seasoned with lemon pepper)
1 ounce (individual bag) baked potato chips2 plums1 cup skim milk
Evening
Pasta verde (2 cups cooked linguine, 2 tsp olive oil, 2 cups steamed green 
vegetables—asparagus tips, scallions, snow peas, broccoli florets).Top with 1 Tblsp Parmesan cheese
1 cup romaine lettuce2 Tblsp fat-free red wine vinaigrette1 cup (about 10) fresh cherriesHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 1/2 ounces low-fat cheddar cheese6 wheat crackersFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 3
Legumes/nuts 0
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 4
Vegetables 5
Fruit 5
Grains 8
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 230
Fat (g) 1
Saturated fat (g) 0
Cholesterol (mg) 0
Fiber (g) 5Sodium (mg) 55116 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Day 11 Recipe
Banana Raspberry Smoothie
Serves 2
1 1/2 cups pineapple juice
1 cup low-fat vanilla yogurt or frozen low-fat yogurt1 cup raspberries2 ripe medium bananas, peeled and cut into chunks
Combine juice, yogurt, raspberries, and bananas in blender.  Cover; blend until
smooth.  Pour into glasses and serve.Chapter 4 :  Planning Meals 117118 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 12
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,800 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 24 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 7 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 100 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 20 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,000 Less than 2,400Breakfast
2 slices banana bread
1 tsp soft margarine1/4 cantaloupe1 cup skim milk
Noon
Bagel sandwich (1 whole-wheat bagel, 2 Tblsp fat-free cream cheese, 
sun-dried tomatoes, cucumbers)
1/2 cup raw vegetables (broccoli florets, celery sticks, green pepper strips)2 Tblsp fat-free ranch dressing (for dip)1 apple1 cup skim milk
Evening
Grilled Beef Kabobs (see recipe below)1 cup quinoa with carrots and herbs1/2 cup steamed spinach with lemon and garlic2 slices grilled pineappleHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
1 1/2 ounces cheddar cheese4 crispy rye wafers6 ounces cranberry juiceFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 0
Fats 3
Legumes/nuts 0
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 6
Fruit 4
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 195
Fat (g) 5
Saturated fat (g) 2
Cholesterol (mg) 60
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 280Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 119
Day 12 Recipe
Grilled Beef Kabobs
Serves 4
12 ounces top sirloin beef steak
6 Tblsp fat-free Italian dressing8 cherry tomatoes2 green bell peppers, cored and seeded and cut into 1-inch chunks1 onion, cut into 1-inch chunks
Cut meat into 1-inch cubes.  Place meat in non-metallic dish, and pour half of the dressing
over to coat.  Cover; refrigerate for 20 minutes.  T urn to coat evenly.  Discard marinade.Thread skewers alternately with meat, cherry tomatoes, green pepper, and onions.  Grill,basting with remaining fat-free dressing.  Serve immediately when cooked.day 13
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,850 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 40 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 7 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 80 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 22 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,250 Less than 2,400Breakfast
1 cup low-fat cottage cheese—top with 1 cup sliced peaches
2 slices toasted oatmeal bread1 tsp soft margarineCoffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Rustic Wrap (see recipe below)1 cup grapes1 kiwi fruit6 ounces pineapple juice
Evening
Pasta with marinara sauce (1 cup linguine, 1 cup marinara sauce*)
—top with 1 Tblsp Parmesan cheese
1 cup romaine lettuce2 Tblsp fat-free Caesar dressing1 sourdough roll—to soak up sauce1 cup berriesHerbal tea
Snack (anytime)
4 cups popcorn1 cup skim milk
*Reduced-sodium variety is recommended.  See recipe on page 143, Chapter 5.Food Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 3
Legumes/nuts 1
Meat, poultry, fish 3 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 5
Grains 9
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 445
Fat (g) 8
Saturated fat (g) 1
Cholesterol (mg) 60
Fiber (g) 6Sodium (mg) 140120 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Day 13 Recipe
Rustic Wrap
Serves 4
2 cups mushrooms, sliced
1/2 cup chopped green onions1 Tblsp orange juice2 cups cooked wild rice12 ounces smoked turkey, shredded or chopped1/2 cup cranberry relish4 medium-sized tortillas (7-inch diameter)1/2 cup chopped pecans
In a non-stick skillet, sauté mushrooms and onion over medium heat in 1 Tblsp orange
juice.  Add cooked wild rice and smoked turkey to warm through.  Remove from heat.Spread tortillas with cranberry relish.  Top each tortilla with equal amounts of turkey-rice mixture.  Top with chopped pecans.  Roll up and serve.Chapter 4 :  Planning Meals 121122 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutritionday 14
Nutritional Analysis for Entire Day
Actual Goal
Calories 1,990 1,800-2,000
Fat (g) 40 Less than 60
Saturated fat (g) 7 Less than 16
Cholesterol (mg) 65 Less than 300
Fiber (g) 26 20-35
Sodium (mg) 2,225 Less than 2,400Breakfast
Breakfast parfait (put in layers:  1/4 cup wheat flakes, 1/4 cup low-fat yogurt, 
1/4 cup raisins, 1/4 cup low-fat yogurt, 1/4 cup uncooked rolled oats, 1/4 cup low-fat yogurt, 1/4 cup dried apricots, 1/4 cup low-fat yogurt, sprinkle with nutmeg)
Coffee—regular or decaffeinated
Noon
Mediterranean Pasta Salad (see recipe below) on romaine lettuce leaves1 crusty seven-grain roll1 tsp soft margarine1 cup lemon sherbet (top with 1 cup raspberries)6 ounces apple juice
Evening
3 ounces grilled salmon with lemon and dill1 cup braised baby vegetables (baby carrots, pattypan squash, red potatoes)1 whole-grain roll1 tsp soft margarine1 cup skim milk
Snack (anytime)
1 cup skim milk2 medium chocolate chip cookiesFood Servings
Actual
Sweets 1
Fats 2
Legumes/nuts 0
Meat, poultry, fish 5 ounces
Milk 3
Vegetables 4
Fruit 6
Grains 7
Per serving 
in this recipe
Calories 276
Fat (g) 8
Saturated fat (g) 2
Cholesterol (mg) 28
Fiber (g) 2Sodium (mg) 435Chapter 4:  Planning Meals 123
Day 14 Recipe
Mediterranean Pasta Salad
Serves 4
1 package (8 ounces) refrigerated or frozen cheese tortellini
3 cups broccoli cut into florets (may substitute cauliflower or use both)1 can (8 ounces) pineapple chunks2 Tblsp balsamic or red wine vinegar1 Tblsp olive oil1/4 pound fresh link turkey sausage, cooked, drained, sliced1 medium red, yellow, or green bell pepper, cored, seeded, and cut into 1-inch pieces
Prepare tortellini as package directs.  Add broccoli during last 2 minutes of cooking.
Drain pineapple, reserve 1/4 cup juice.  Combine reserved juice, vinegar, and oil inlarge serving bowl.  Drain tortellini and broccoli.  Add tortellini, broccoli, sausage, bell pepper, and pineapple to serving bowl.  Toss well to coat evenly.  Serve at roomtemperature or chilled.Preparing healthful meals can be fun.
In this chapter you will learn:
•Ways to modify recipes to be lower in calories, fat, sugar, and salt and yet be nutritious and flavorful
•Ways to create menus that bring healthier, plant-based foods —fruits, 
vegetables, and grains —to center stage
•How to prepare, serve, and store food safelyThe art of cooking is to put the proper amounts of these
ingredients in each food.  Recipe modification is one of themore useful cooking skills.  In some instances, modificationof the fat, sugar, or salt content actually can make the foodtastier, moister, and more satisfying than it was originally.
When Should a Recipe Be Modified?
Sometimes it is difficult to know whether a recipe can beadjusted without sacrificing taste, texture, and appeal.Try modifying a recipe if you answer “yes” to any of thefollowing questions:•  Is the recipe high in fat, sugar, or salt?•  Is this a food I eat frequently?•  Is this a food I eat in large amounts?
Keep in mind that not every recipe needs to be modified.
If, for example, a certain high-fat dessert is a family favoriteand it is prepared infrequently, there is no need to changeit.  As long as it is treated as an item from the top of the
Food Guide Pyramid (see Chapter 1, page
11)—the occasional food—enjoy it in its
familiar form.
Experiment
Because every recipe is different,
experimentation is necessary.  There
are numerous ways to make a recipe
healthier.  Of course, not every experi-
ment works.  It may take several attempts
to achieve the desired taste and consistency.
Once the modified recipe meets your expec-
tations, file it for future use.Much has been learned about how to prepare healthfulfoods that are enjoyable, convenient to make, and
economical.  Many of the leading chefs of Europe and theUnited States have abandoned cooking styles that oncedepended on fats and oils and are now using healthiercooking methods.  This “new” cuisine uses the cook's culinary
skill to create delicious meals that bring fruits, vegetables, andgrains to center stage.
Simple yet innovative techniques can be used to modify
favorite recipes to maximize the nutritious value of themeal without jeopardizing its taste.  When you modify anexisting recipe, it is generally best to start slowly, making onechange at a time.  Persistence, willingness to experiment, anda few tried-and-true hints can help you prepare healthfuland flavorful meals.
CHANGE ISGOOD
Recently, fat, sugar, and salt have been vilified for the rolesthey play in increasing the risk of certain dis-eases such as obesity, diabetes, coronary arterydisease, and high blood pressure.  However,they are only “bad” when eaten in excess. The key
is not to banish them from the kitchen but touse them in moderation.
Fat provides flavor, substance,
and a mouth-pleasing creamytexture.  Sugar adds sweetness,crispness, tenderness, and color.
Salt heightens the flavor of foodsand is necessary in baked goods
made with yeast.CHAPTEr five
PREPARING
HEALTHFUL MEALSAs a start, try these five methods:  
• Reduce the amount of  fat, sugar, or salt.
• Delete a high-fat ingredient or seasoning.
• Substitute a healthier ingredient.• Change the method used to prepare the recipe.• Reduce the amount of meat in the recipe.
Can the Amount of an Ingredient Be Reduced?
Start by reducing the amount one ingredient at a time.  Inmost baked goods, sugar generally can be reduced by one-
third to one-half without substantially changing consistency
or taste.  Because sugar increases moisture, as a rule retainone-fourth cup of sugar, honey, or molasses for every cupof flour in baked goods.  To maximize the sweetness offoods, when appropriate, serve the dish warm or at roomtemperature rather than cold.  In addition, there are spicesthat can enhance sweetness.  Some possibilities includecinnamon, cloves, allspice, nutmeg, and vanilla and almondextract or flavoring.  Eliminating a cup of sugar in a recipesaves about 800 calories.
Fat also can be reduced by one-third to one-half in baked
goods.  Use puréed fruit or applesauce to replace the fatin a 1:1 ratio.  For example, use one-half cup of oil plus one-half cup of unsweetened applesauce (instead of 1 cup of oil).Eliminating 1 cup of oil or fat saves about 2,000 calories and225 grams of fat.  Another way to decrease fat and cholesterolis to substitute egg whites or egg substitute for a whole egg.For every egg, use 2 egg whites or a quarter cup of eggsubstitute.  With this replacement, approximately 5 grams
of fat, 2 grams of saturated fat, 200 milligrams of choles-terol, and 60 calories are saved.  
Reduce but do not totally remove salt because a small
amount of salt frequently is required to facilitate the chem-ical reactions that occur during cooking. Salt is alwaysrequired with yeast-leavened items.  The cooler the food,the saltier it will taste.  T ry under-salting hot foods thatwill be chilled before serving.  Using a half teaspoon of saltinstead of 1 teaspoon in a recipe saves about 1,200 mil-ligrams of sodium.  (See sidebar:  Tips for Using Spicesand Herbs, this page.)
Can an Ingredient Be Omitted?
Determine whether any ingredients can be omitted.  Sugar,fat, and salt are likely candidates because in many instancesthey are used mainly for appearance or by habit.  To reducesugar, omit candy coatings, sugary frostings, and syrups.Nuts, although nutritious, are high in fat and contribute sig-nificant calories.  Additional condiments that add unwantedfat and calories include coconut, whipped cream, mayon-naise, butter, margarine, and sour cream.  Pickles, catsup,olives, and mustard are low in calories.  However, becausethese condiments are high in salt, persons who have highblood pressure or heart disease generally should limit their use.
Can a Substitution Be Made?
Substituting ingredients that are lower in fat, sugar, andsalt can make a significant difference in a recipe.  For exam-ple,use skim milk rather than whole or 2 percent milk.
Products made from pureed prunes and apples or mashedbananas often can be used as a replacement for butter,margarine, or oil.  These products also can be used inhomemade baked goods or box mixes.  (See sidebar:Choose These Alternatives to Reduce Fat, Sugar, and Salt,page 127.)
Be cautious when using fat-free spreads (such as fat-
free margarine or cream cheese), “artificial” sweeteners, orsalt substitutes in cooked foods.  Most fat-free spreads containa significant amount of water.  This can change the outcomeof the recipe by affecting its leavening or by leaving thefood runny.  Some sweeteners (such as aspartame) losetheir sweetness when exposed to heat.  Heat can makesome salt substitutes (such as those containing potassiumchloride) strong or bitter tasting.  For these reasons, theseproducts generally should be restricted to recipes that do notrequire cooking or are used as condiments when foods are126 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
• Conversion:  1 tablespoon fresh herbs = 1 teaspoon dry
= 1/4 teaspoon powdered
• Use sparingly:  1/4 teaspoon per pound of meat or pint
of sauce.  You can always add more.
• When doubling a recipe, add only 50 percent more
seasoning.
• Crush or rub dry herbs between your fingers to
enhance flavor before adding them to a recipe.
• In long-cooking entrées such as stews, add herbs
toward the end of the cooking time.
• In chilled foods such as dips, salads, and dressings, add
herbs several hours before serving.
• For maximal freshness, purchase herbs in small quantities
and store in airtight containers away from light and heat.TIPS FOR USING SPICES AND HERBSserved at the table.  In most instances, success depends on
patience and a bit of creativity.  If one substitution does not
yield the desired result, try again.  Another substitute or a
different amount of the same substitute may work better.
Would Another Cooking Method Be Healthier?
The choice of cooking technique is important.  If the usualmethod of cooking uses fat, try grilling, broiling, braising,or roasting the food instead.  Instead of deep-fat frying,try oven baking.  French “fries” seasoned with chili powder
or oregano are both tasty and low in fat when baked.Although stir “frying” can be a healthful cooking technique,use of generous amounts of oil negates some of the possiblebenefit.  Always measure the oil to be used or, better yet,replace it with wine or a broth that adds flavor but little fatand only a few calories.  Cooking food for the proper time(avoiding overcooking) not only makes it taste better butalso preserves nutrients.Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 127
FOR FATTY FOODS
Choose: Instead of:
T wo percent, 1 percent, or skim milk; low-fat or fat-free yogurt; Full-fat milk, yogurt, sour cream, or cheese
low-fat or fat-free sour cream or cheese
Lean, trimmed cuts of the loin and round; remove the skin from  Fatty and highly marbled meat
poultry before eating
Applesauce or fruit purée in place of half the oil or shortening Shortening, butter, margarine, or oil in baked 
that is normally used; use the rest of the fat as instructed goods
Puréed vegetables (carrots or potatoes), mashed potato flakes, Creamed soups and gravy-based stews
or puréed tofu as a thickening agent
Wine, fruit juice, broth, or balsamic vinegar Oil-based marinadesVegetable spray Butter, oil, or margarine to prevent stickingT wo egg whites or egg substitute A whole egg in a recipeRoasted garlic; jam, jelly, or honey (although high in sugar, Butter or margarine on bread or crackers
they have half the calories of butter or margarine and no fat)
Salsa, low-fat sour cream with chives, low-fat cottage cheese, Butter or sour cream
yogurt, herbs, or spices on baked potatoes
Fat-free mayonnaise or salad dressing, mustard, cranberry Mayonnaise or butter on a sandwich
sauce, chutney
FOR FOODS WITH A HIGH SUGAR CONTENT
Choose: Instead of:
Fruit purée, chopped fresh fruit, or applesauce Sugar, syrup, or honeyFruit canned in its own juice, fresh fruit Sweetened fruit 
FOR FOODS WITH A HIGH SALT CONTENT
Choose: Instead of:
Lower-sodium versions Soups, sauces (barbecue, soy, tartar, cocktail),
canned meat or fish, and crackers
Herbs, spices, or marinades SaltCHOOSE THESE ALTERNATIVES TO REDUCE FAT, SUGAR ,ANDSALT
Try these ideas for decreasing fat, sugar, and salt when preparing or eating foods.Many cooking techniques make it possible to prepare
more colorful, flavorful, and healthier dishes.  These includethe following:
Braising —Food is browned, then cooked in a tightly
covered pan in a small amount of liquid at low heat over along period.
Broiling —Food is placed beneath the heat source; bast-
ing may be needed.
Grilling —Food is positioned above the heat source;
basting may be needed.
Microwaving —This is a quick way to cook food with
little added liquid or fat.
Poaching —Food is cooked in a liquid at the simmer-
ing point. 
Oven roasting —Food is cooked in an uncovered pan
by the free circulation of dry air, until the exterior is wellbrowned.
Steaming —Food is placed on a rack in a basket above
boiling liquid.  Food should not touch the liquid.
Stir frying —Small pieces of food are cooked over high
heat and constantly stirred.  Use wine, broth, or fruit juiceas the liquid instead of the traditional oil.
Marinating food adds flavor and does not have to add
fat.  Some tips for successful marinating include piercing largecuts of meat, poultry, or fish with a fork to help the marinadepermeate the food.  Always marinate food in a glass or ceramicdish in the refrigerator.  Never place the food in a metalcontainer.  Most marinades feature an acid base that mayreact with metal and change the flavor.  Finally, a food safetytip:  r eserve some of the marinade before you put meat in it.
Marinade that has been in contact with raw meat should notbe used to baste meat, poultry, or fish during the last 15 minutesof cooking.  If you plan to use leftover marinade as a tablesauce, it must be boiled for 5 minutes to eliminate bacteria.
There is more that can be done once the food is out of
the oven or off the stove.  Skim the fat off pan juices, stews,and soups.  Instead of topping vegetables with butter ormargarine, sprinkle them with lemon juice or herbs.  Removeany visible fat (and any skin from poultry) before serving.
No special, expensive equipment is needed to cook
healthful foods.  A good set of non-stick pans, a skillet, aroasting pan, a baking sheet, measuring cups and spoons,and sharp knives are enough to get you started.  Quality,durability, ease of use, and cost should be the primary con-siderations when outfitting a kitchen. Can the Amount of Fruits, Grains, and
Vegetables in the Recipe Be Increased?  
Increasing the amount of vegetables, grains, and fruits in
a recipe can both improve taste and increase the nutritionalquality of the food.  For example, when cooking a soup orstew, use three times as many vegetables (by measure) as meat.Add generous portions of mushrooms, tomatoes, broccoli,
and green pepper to pizza.  Make pizza even lower in fat andcalories by omitting or decreasing the cheese.  Alternatively,
choose a lower-fat cheese, such as mozzarella (made fromskim milk), and use less of it.  If possible, eliminate themeat or add only a small amount of  lean meat.  If you aremaking your own crust, make it thin and use whole-grainflour.  Pizza, if served with a salad and eaten in moderation,can be an enjoyable and nutritious meal. 
To get at least 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day,
add them to foods that do not typically include these ingre-dients.  For example, add chopped pieces of fruit or vegetablesto rice, add fruit toppings to toast or pancakes, or top meatswith chopped vegetables.  For each serving of meat (a serv-ing is 2 to 3 ounces of meat), try to eat at least 1 serving eachof fruit, vegetables, and grains.  When possible, start yourmeal with a healthful salad.  This often helps you decreasethe amount of high-calorie food that you eat later in the meal.
The more servings of grains, vegetables, or fruit, the better,because these are both filling and high in nutrients (see side-bar: Nutrition Boosters, page 129).
CREATING HEALTHFUL MENUS
Plan menus so that each meal complements what you planto eat later in the day or what you have eaten earlier in theday.  Include plant-based entrées as often as possible.Examples that can result in satisfying meatless meals includepasta with marinara sauce and lots of vegetables, stir-friedvegetables with tofu over rice, or lentil soup with a side dishcontaining grains, beans, or vegetables.  Plant-based entréescan be tasty, filling, and nutritious.
When you choose to eat meat, fish, or poultry, remember
that your goal is to eat 6 ounces or less per day.  If you ate meatfor lunch, appropriately decrease your dinner portion. Avoidred meats that contain a large amount of fat.  Instead,emphasize poultry or fish.  When you eat red meat, choosea “choice” grade and a cut from the loin or round, becausethese generally are the leanest types of meat.  The skin onpoultry holds in moisture and flavor during cooking.128 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionHowever, the skin is high in fat and calories.  Contrary to
popular belief, the skin does not need to be removed before
cooking.  There is minimal fat absorption if the skin is left on.
Just make sure to remove the skin before the poultry is eaten.  
Many fish are low in fat.  Those that are not low in fat
generally contain omega-3 fatty acids that may help preventheart disease.  However, remember, all fats are high in calories,so the less fat added during cooking, the better. 
Condiments and sauces can add nutrition and enhance
flavor.  Keep in mind, however, that some are high in fat,sodium, and calories (see Chapter 4, “On the Side,” page 86).An example of a high-fat sauce is gravy over mashed pota-toes.  Instead, try sprinkling mashed potatoes with garlic orother herbs.
When choosing a topping, look for a lower-fat alternative.
If none are available, then use less of the original topping.Sliced, chopped, or puréed vegetables can make a nour-ishing low-fat condiment.  Fruits are a delicious complementto almost any meal.  They can top meats, enrich salads, or beserved for dessert. 
A dessert can be a pleasant end to a healthful meal.
However, a dessert should not be an “extra.”  Be sure it isincluded in your overall meal plan.  Make the dessert abonus by emphasizing fruit, whole grains, and lower-fatitems.  If you do not have a recipe that emphasizes fruits andwhole grains, look for one that can be readily modified.Sorbets and low-fat frozen yogurts or ice creams are goodchoices.  Even cookies, pies, cakes, and chocolates have theirplace.  However, remember, becausethese desserts generally are high in fat andsugar, they are at the pinnacle of the FoodGuide Pyramid.  Therefore, they shouldbe the exception rather than the rule.  Ifyou plan to eat a dessert, take a smallportion.  If you are preparing a dessert fora special occasion, make just enough toserve you and your guests.  Leftoverdessert is a powerful temptation. 
With a little thought and planning,
you know what foods to emphasize andwhat foods to limit.  You are ready tomake a commitment to improve the wayyou and your family eat.  Now it is timeto put your plan into action.  To help youget started, examples of  “makeovers” forbreakfast and noon and evening mealsare shown on the following pages.Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 129
Instead of: Substitute:
Syrup Sliced fruit or a purée of a favorite
on pancakes fruit such as apples, berries,
pineapple, or peaches
Sugar on Fresh fruit or low-fat yogurt
breakfast cereal
With or in: Use:
Chicken breast Kabobs with fruit and vegetables
T raditional or Whole-grain breads, cooked
cornbread stuffing apples, raisins or other dried fruit
Rice Diced vegetables, dried fruit, or 
other grains or legumes
Casseroles Decrease meat and add more 
vegetables, grains, bran, legumes, or dried fruit
Meat-based stews Decrease meat, and add more 
and soups vegetables, legumes, or grains
Pasta In place of meat sauce, use a meat-
less tomato sauce and add steamed vegetablesNUTRITION BOOSTERS
There are many ways to help you get more fruits, vegetables,
and grains in the foods you eat.  Try these ideas.
Pizza with less meat and cheese and more vegetable
or fruit toppings is enjoyable and nutritious.  130 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionBreakfast— Makeover 1
Original Meal
6 ounces apple juice
1 spiced muffin
2 tsp butter
1 cup 2% milk
Coffee
2 tsp cream
1 tsp sugar
Meal analysis: 565 calories, 29 g fat, 12 g saturated fat, 
77 mg cholesterol, 1 g fiber, 395 mg sodium Modified Meal
1 nectarine and 1/2 cup raspberries
1 spiced muffin
2 tsp marmalade
1 cup fat-free yogurt
Herbal tea
Meal analysis: 420 calories, 8 g fat, 1 g saturated fat, 
4 mg cholesterol, 7 g fiber, 320 mg sodium
Preheat oven to 350° Fahrenheit.  Spray muffin tin with non-stick spray or use paper muffin liners.  In a large bowl, mix togeth er
the flour, sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt.  Mix well.  In another bowl, combine the egg substitute, oil, applesauce, an d
vanilla.  Stir in the apples, raisins, and carrots.  Add to the flour mixture and stir until just blended.  Spoon batter into m uffin
tins, filling 2/3 full.  Sprinkle with chopped pecans and bake for 35 minutes or until springy to the touch.  Let cool for 5 mi nutes,
then remove from the pan to a rack and let cool completely.  Note: These freeze well and may be rewarmed before serving.  
Yield: 18 small muffinsSPICED MUFFINS
Original Recipe
2 cups wheat flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp salt
3 large eggs
1 cup vegetable shortening, melted
1/2 cup coconut
1 tsp vanilla
2 cups peeled and chopped apples
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup grated carrots
1/2 cup chopped pecansModified Recipe
1 3/4 cups wheat flour3/4 cup sugar2 tsp baking soda2 tsp cinnamon1/4 tsp saltcholesterol-free egg substitute
(equivalent to 4 eggs)
1/2 cup canola oil1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce(Omit coconut)2 tsp vanilla2 cups chopped apples (unpeeled)1/2 cup raisins3/4 cup grated carrots2 Tblsp chopped pecans
Original Modified
Calories 270 175
Fat (g) 15 7
Saturated fat (g) 4 1
Cholesterol (mg) 35 T race
Fiber (g) 1 2
Sodium (mg) 185 165Recipe Analysis (per muffin)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 131
Breakfast— Makeover 2
Original Meal
6 ounces pineapple juice
1/2 cup granola with 1 cup 2% milk
2 slices white toast
2 tsp butter
Coffee
2 tsp cream
Meal analysis: 731 calories, 27 g fat, 12 g saturated fat, 
42 mg cholesterol, 6 g fiber, 500 mg sodium Modified Meal
1/2 cup fresh pineapple
1/2 cup reduced-fat granola with 1 cup fat-free plain yogurt
2 slices whole-wheat toast
2 tsp jelly
Hazelnut-flavored coffee
Meal analysis: 560 calories, 7 g fat, 1 g saturated fat, 
4 mg cholesterol, 14 g fiber, 500 mg sodium132 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Preheat oven to 350° Fahrenheit.  Place oat and bran cereals into a large bowl.  Toss well.  In a small bowl combine the
honey, applesauce, vanilla, and cinnamon.  Pour over the oat mixture and toss.  Don’t break clumps apart.  Pour onto non-stick baking sheet, spread evenly, and bake for about 25 to 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Remove when golden brown.Combine almonds, apple pieces, and raisins and stir into hot oat mixture.  Cool completely.  Store in an airtight container.Yield: 11 half-cup servingsGRANOLA WITHRAISINS , APPLES ,ANDCINNAMON
Original Recipe
4 cups old-fashioned oat cereal
1 cup bran cereal
1 cup slivered almonds
1 cup coconut
1 cup raisins
1/3 cup honey
1/4 cup oil
1 Tblsp vanillaModified Recipe
3 cups old-fashioned oat cereal3/4 cup bran cereal1/4 cup slivered almonds (toasted)3/4 cup dried apple pieces1/2 cup golden raisins1/4 cup honey1/4 cup unsweetened applesauce1 Tblsp vanilla extract1 Tblsp cinnamon
Original Modified
Calories 300 235
Fat (g) 11 4
Saturated fat (g) 3 1
Cholesterol (mg) 0 0
Fiber (g) 5 8
Sodium (mg) 40 38Recipe Analysis (per half cup)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 133134 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionBreakfast— Makeover 3
Original Meal
6 ounces orange juice
Southwestern scramble
2 slices white toast
2 tsp butter
1 cup 2% milk
Coffee
2 tsp cream
1 tsp sugar
Meal analysis: 845 calories, 47 g fat, 25 g saturated fat, 
540 mg cholesterol, 2 g fiber, 1,400 mg sodium Modified Meal
6 ounces orange juice
Southwestern scramble
1 piece cornbread
1 Tblsp honey
1 cup skim milk
Chicory-flavored coffee
Meal analysis: 460 calories, 11 g fat, 2 g saturated fat, 
120 mg cholesterol, 4 g fiber, 600 mg sodium
Spray a heavy skillet with cooking spray.  Place over medium heat and cook vegetables until tender; remove vegetables and keep
warm.  Combine whole egg and egg whites.  Pour into skillet and scramble over medium heat until set.  Spoon onto plates.Top with cooked vegetables and sprinkle with cheese.  Serve with salsa.  Yield: 2 servingsSOUTHWESTERN SCRAMBLE
Original Recipe
1/2 cup diced lean ham
4 whole eggs
2/3 cup cheddar cheese, shreddedModified Recipe
1/2 cup green and red bell pepper, diced1/4 cup mushrooms, sliced1 whole egg plus 3 egg whites2 Tblsp cheddar cheese, shredded1/2 cup salsa
Original Modified
Calories 410 120
Fat (g) 31 6
Saturated fat (g) 16 2
Cholesterol (mg) 500 114
Fiber (g) trace 1
Sodium (mg) 940 380Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 135
Noon Meal— Makeover 1
Original Meal
T una salad sandwich
1 ounce (individual bag) potato chips
12 ounces cola
Meal analysis: 925 calories, 59 g fat, 12 g saturated fat, 
40 mg cholesterol, 3 g fiber, 970 mg sodium Modified Meal
Curried tuna salad with pita triangles
1/2 cup grapes
1 cup skim milk
Meal analysis: 300 calories, 2 g fat, trace saturated fat, 
34 mg cholesterol, 6 g fiber, 415 mg sodium136 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
In a small bowl, flake the tuna.  Add the celery, apple, raisins, and green onion.  In a separate bowl, combine the lemon juice ,
mayonnaise, and spices.  Add the tuna mixture and combine.  Serve on lettuce leaves along with pita bread that has been cutinto triangles. Yield: 4 servingsTUNASALAD SANDWICH VS CURRIED TUNASALAD WITHPITATRIANGLES
Original Recipe (sandwich)
1 can (6 ounces) oil-packed tuna
1/2 cup diced celery
1 tsp lemon juice
1 cup mayonnaise
4 lettuce leaves
8 slices breadModified Recipe (salad)
1 can (6 ounces) water-packed tuna, drained1/2 cup diced celery3/4 cup chopped apple1/4 cup raisins2 Tblsp thinly sliced green onion1 tsp lemon juice1/2 cup fat-free mayonnaise1/2 tsp curry powder1/4 tsp garlic powderdash of cayenne (red) pepper, if desired4 lettuce leaves2 whole-wheat pita bread rounds (about 6-inch diameter)
Original Modified
Calories 625 165
Fat (g) 50 1
Saturated fat (g) 10 trace
Cholesterol (mg) 40 30
Fiber (g) 2 5
Sodium (mg) 800 288Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 137138 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionNoon Meal— Makeover 2
Original Meal
Spinach salad with bacon and mushrooms
2 bread sticks
1 cup 2% milk
Meal analysis: 640 calories, 29 g fat, 6 g saturated fat, 
25 mg cholesterol, 4 g fiber, 1,460 mg sodium Modified Meal
Citrus spinach salad with honey yogurt dressing
1 slice sourdough bread
1 Tblsp honey
1 cup skim milk
Meal analysis: 425 calories, 3 g fat, 1 g saturated fat, 
5 mg cholesterol, 7 g fiber, 610 mg sodium
Wash and dry spinach, remove stems.  Arrange spinach, orange segments, apple, and onion slices onto plates.  In a small bowl,
combine the nonfat yogurt and honey.  Whisk until smooth.  Spoon over salads.  Yield: 6 servingsSPINACH SALAD WITHBACON AND MUSHROOMS
VS
CITRUS SPINACH SALAD WITHHONEY YOGURT DRESSING
Original Recipe
6 cups spinach leaves
6 strips bacon
1/2 pound sliced mushrooms
3 thin slices sourdough (croutons)
2 Tblsp sugar
2 Tblsp cider vinegar
1/2 cup olive oil
2 ounces brandyModified Recipe
6 cups spinach leaves1 cup fresh orange segments1 tart apple, thinly sliced1 small red onion, thinly sliced1 cup plain, nonfat yogurt2 Tblsp honey
Original Modified
Calories 306 110
Fat (g) 22 trace
Saturated fat (g) 3 trace
Cholesterol (mg) 5 trace
Fiber (g) 2 4
Sodium (mg) 243 134Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 139
Noon Meal— Makeover 3
Original Meal
1 cup minestrone soup
4 soda crackers
2 cups tossed salad
2 Tblsp Italian dressing
2 chocolate chip cookies
1 cup 2% milk
Meal analysis: 815 calories, 47 g fat, 15 g saturated fat, 
65 mg cholesterol, 6 g fiber, 2,095 mg sodium Modified Meal
1 cup minestrone soup
6 multigrain crackers
1 cup fresh fruit mixed with mint
1 cup skim milk
Meal analysis: 400 calories, 8 g fat, 1 g saturated fat, 
9 mg cholesterol, 11 g fiber, 534 mg sodium140 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
In a large saucepan over medium heat, cook the onion, celery, and carrot in the olive oil until softened.  Add garlic and conti nue
cooking for another minute.  Add broth, tomatoes, spinach, chickpeas or kidney beans, and pasta.  Bring to a boil over highheat.  Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes.  Add zucchini.  Cover and cook for 5 minutes.  Stir in basil and serve.  Yield: 4 servingsMINESTRONE SOUP
Original Recipe
3 Tblsp olive oil
1/2 cup onion, chopped
1/2 cup ham, diced
1 carrot, diced
1 clove garlic, minced
1 quart chicken broth
1 can (14 ounces) tomatoes, chopped
1/2 cup spinach, chopped
1/2 cup canned kidney beans
1 cup grated Parmesan cheeseModified Recipe
1 Tblsp olive oil1/2 cup onion, chopped1/3 cup celery, diced 1 carrot, diced1 clove garlic, minced1 quart defatted, reduced-sodium chicken broth2 large fresh tomatoes, seeded and chopped1/2 cup spinach, chopped1 can (16 ounces) chickpeas or red 
kidney beans, drained and rinsed
1 small zucchini, diced1/2 cup dry small-shell pasta2 Tblsp fresh basil, chopped
Original Modified
Calories 380 190
Fat (g) 22 4
Saturated fat (g) 8 trace
Cholesterol (mg) 33 5
Fiber (g) 3 8
Sodium (mg) 2,500 400Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 141142 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionEvening Meal— Makeover 1
Original Meal
Spaghetti with meatballs
2 cups romaine lettuce
2 Tblsp Italian dressing
1 hard roll
1 tsp butter
1 cup ice cream
Herbal tea
Meal analysis: 1,246 calories, 68 g fat, 28 g saturated fat, 
165 mg cholesterol, 4 g fiber, 1,580 mg sodium Modified Meal
Pasta with marinara sauce and grilled vegetables
2 cups romaine lettuce
2 Tbsp fat-free Italian dressing
1 whole-grain roll (to soak up sauce)
Frozen grapes with toasted pecans
4 ounces red wine
Meal analysis: 355 calories, 15 g fat, 2 g saturated fat, 
5 mg cholesterol, 10 g fiber, 830 mg sodium
Heat oil in a heavy skillet.  Add tomatoes, salt, minced garlic, onion, basil, sugar, oregano, and black pepper.  Cook slowly,
uncovered, for 30 minutes or until sauce is thickened.  In the meantime, brush peppers, squashes, onion, and fresh garlic with oil.  Place under broiler and cook, turning frequently until browned and tender.  Remove to a covered bowl.  Keepwarm.  Cook spaghetti according to package directions.  Drain well and portion onto plates.  Cover with equal amounts of sauce.  Top with equal amounts of vegetables.  Serve immediately.  Yield:  4 servingsSPAGHETTI WITHMEATBALLS
VS
PASTA WITHMARINARA SAUCE AND GRILLED VEGETABLES
Original Recipe
1 quart ready-made spaghetti sauce
1 pound hamburger
1/2 tsp garlic salt
1/2 cup onion
8-ounce package of spaghettiModified Recipe
2 Tblsp olive oil10 large, peeled, diced, fresh tomatoes1 tsp salt1/2 tsp garlic, minced2 Tblsp onion, chopped1 Tblsp fresh basil, chopped (1 tsp dried)1 tsp sugar1/2 tsp oreganoblack pepper, to taste2 red peppers, sliced into chunks1 yellow summer squash, sliced lengthwise1 zucchini, sliced lengthwise1 sweet onion, sliced into 1/4-inch-wide rounds2 bundles fresh garlic, halved8-ounce package of whole-wheat spaghetti
Original Modified
Calories 535 270
Fat (g) 24 6
Saturated fat (g) 9 1
Cholesterol (mg) 66 0
Fiber (g) 1 4
Sodium (mg) 1,045 380Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 143
Evening Meal— Makeover 2
Original Meal
Fried chicken 
1 cup white rice
1 cup green beans
1 dinner roll
1 tsp butter
1 piece apple pie
1 cup 2% milk
Meal analysis: 1,455 calories, 55 g fat, 17 g saturated fat, 
220 mg cholesterol, 7 g fiber, 1,548 mg sodium Modified Meal
Balsamic roasted chicken 
1 cup roasted vegetables and fruit (new potatoes, onions, pears)
2 cups tossed greens
2 Tblsp low-fat red wine vinaigrette
1 slice crusty Italian or French bread
1 sliced fresh peach sprinkled with nutmeg
1 cup skim milk
Meal analysis: 810 calories, 27 g fat, 4 g saturated fat, 
195 mg cholesterol, 9 g fiber, 410 mg sodium144 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
Preheat oven to 350° Fahrenheit.  Rinse chicken inside and out with cold running water.  Dry it with paper towels.  Mince
together the rosemary leaves and garlic.  Loosen the skin from the flesh, then rub the flesh with the oil and then the herbmixture.  Sprinkle with black pepper.  Put two fresh rosemary sprigs into the cavity of the chicken.  T russ the chicken.  Placeit in a roasting pan and roast for 20 to 25 minutes per pound (about 1 hour and 20 minutes).  Baste frequently with pan juices.When browned and juices run clear, transfer the chicken to a serving platter.  In a small saucepan, combine the vinegar and the brown sugar.  Heat until warm—do not boil.  Carve the chicken (remove skin).  Top it with the vinegar mixture.  Garnishwith remaining rosemary.  Yield: 4 servingsFRIED VS BALSAMIC ROASTED CHICKEN
Original Recipe
1 4-pound whole chicken,
cut into pieces
1/2 cup flour
1 tsp salt
1/2 tsp cracked pepper
1/4 cup vegetable oilModified Recipe
1 4-pound whole chicken
1 Tblsp fresh rosemary (1 tsp dried)
1 garlic clove1 Tblsp olive oilblack pepper4 sprigs fresh rosemary
1/4 cup balsamic vinegar1/2 tsp brown sugar
Original Modified
Calories 603 432
Fat (g) 31 16
Saturated fat (g) 7 3
Cholesterol (mg) 192 192
Fiber (g) 0 0Sodium (mg) 693 163Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 145146 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy NutritionEvening Meal— Makeover 3
Original Meal
8-ounce grilled steak
1 medium baked potato
2 Tblsp sour cream
1 cup green peas and onions
1 dinner roll
1 tsp butter
1 piece frosted devils’ food cake
Coffee—regular or decaffeinated
Meal analysis: 1,480 calories, 64 g fat, 32 g saturated fat, 
230 mg cholesterol, 5 g fiber, 1,203 mg sodium Modified Meal
Steak with steamed vegetables 
and soba noodles
1 seven-grain roll
1 Tblsp honey
1 star fruit, sliced over 1/2 cup sherbet
2 fortune cookies
Green tea
Meal analysis: 900 calories, 24 g fat, 9 g saturated fat, 
70 mg cholesterol, 14 g fiber, 1,040 mg sodium
Cook steak —grill, broil, or fry in a non-stick pan until medium rare.  Set aside on covered platter to keep warm.  Cook
soba noodles according to package directions.  While noodles are cooking, steam the vegetables until tender crisp.  Combinesauce ingredients, heat through.  Drain soba noodles, rinse, and redrain.  Toss vegetables with the noodles.  Place onto plates .
Slice steak across grain into thin strips.  Arrange on top of vegetables and noodles.  Top with sauce.  Serve immediately.  Yield: 4 servingsGRILLED STEAK
VS
STEAK WITHSTEAMED VEGETABLES , SOBANOODLES ,ANDGINGER SAUCE
Original Recipe
4 8-ounce steaks
8 Tblsp steak sauceModified Recipe
1 12-ounce loin steak1/2 pound soba noodles2 cups fresh asparagus cut into 1-inch segments2 cups broccoli florets
Sauce
1/2 cup reduced-sodium soy sauce1/3 cup rice wine vinegar1 Tblsp sesame oil1 1/2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled, grated1 tsp sugarcracked black pepper, to taste
Original Modified
Calories 790 495
Fat (g) 44 19
Saturated fat (g) 22 8
Cholesterol (mg) 175 58
Fiber (g) 0 58
Sodium (mg) 900 775Recipe Analysis (per serving)Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 147
FOOD SAFETY
You have learned how to select healthful foods, to modify
recipes appropriately, and to make attractive and good-tasting meals.  The final step is to ensure that the food youserve is safe to eat.
Bacteria in the Kitchen
Approximately 7 million cases of food poisoning are reportedevery year in the United States.  Many other cases are mis-taken for stomach flu or some other infection and thereforeare never reported.  Food poisoning can be a serious andpotentially fatal illness.  Fortunately, such severe cases arerare.  Bacterial contamination of food can occur if food ishandled improperly.  Thus, food safety is of paramountimportance.  
Kitchens are replete with chances for passing along the
bacteria (germs) that cause food poisoning.  It is the respon-sibility of the person preparing the meal to make certain thatfoods and utensils are washed properly.  Unclean kitchenutensils can promote food poisoning by growing unwelcomebacteria (see sidebar:  Sources of Bacteria, below).Hand Washing
Sometimes in the rush to prepare meals, it is easy to over-look one of the simplest and most important rules in foodpreparation: wash your hands before handling any food.Bacteria tend to accumulate on your hands, especiallyaround the cuticles and under the fingernails.  To actuallykill the bacteria, it would take water so hot that it wouldharm your skin.  At least 10 seconds of vigorous rubbingwith soap or detergent and warm water is required to ridyour hands of germs.  You also should wash your handsduring meal preparation if they become contaminated bythe food you are handling.
Cross-Contamination
Cross-contamination can lead to food poisoning.  Ifuncooked food has been on a plate or cutting board, thatplate or cutting board could transfer a potentially infectiousagent to any other food that comes in contact with it.Therefore, always use separate utensils, plates, and cuttingboards for raw and cooked foods. 
Ensuring Food Safety
Food safety begins as soon as you purchase the food. Ideally,perishable foods should be promptly taken home andimmediately refrigerated or frozen.  However, if you needto make a stop before reaching home, plan to store meat,fish, poultry, and dairy products in a cooler on ice.  Alwaysobserve the refrigeration recommendations on packagedfoods.  To decrease the total amount of bacteria found onraw chicken and other poultry, thoroughly rinse, insideand out, under cold water.  After a complete rinse, use hotwater and soap to wash out the sink.  Before freezing meat,poultry, or fish, divide it into the portion size that you willneed to prepare one meal.  When you need to cool a foodthat you have cooked, quickly transfer it to a shallowcontainer.  Cover it and refrigerate it immediately.  Bacteriathrive at temperatures between 40° and 140° Fahrenheit,potentially doubling in number every 20 to 30 minutes.Therefore, the most important food safety rule in thekitchen is:  Keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold.
Defrosting Food
Thaw poultry, fish, and meat in the refrigerator.  Defrostingat room temperature promotes thawing on the outsidewhile the core remains frozen.  The soft outer portion pro-vides a fertile site for bacterial growth.  Instead, put frozenfood in the refrigerator (which is cool but above freezing)148 Part I:  A Guide to Healthy Nutrition
BACTERIA SOURCE SOLUTION
Cutting boards Keep two on hand—one for
meat and the other for produceor breads*
Sponges, dish cloths, Change and wash frequently
and towels
Knives and utensils Use separate knives and utensils
for raw and cooked foods.Wash all utensils with hot waterand soap
Countertops Wash frequently with soap and
hot water, particularly afterworking with meat, poultry,and fish 
*A simple cleaning solution that helps to keep bacteria 
in check is to mix 1 tablespoon of bleach to 1 gallon ofwater.  Generously spray the surface and let it stand forseveral minutes.  Rinse and dry with a clean towel.SOURCES OF BACTERIA1 or 2 days before it is to be used.  For faster thawing, run
cold water over the item or use a microwave for quick
defrosting.
Marinade Savvy
Marinate poultry, seafood, and meat in the refrigerator.  To
play it safe, set some of the marinade aside (to use for basting
or as a sauce at the table) before adding it to the raw meat.
Avoid using the liquid that the raw meat has been marinatingin for basting.  If you do, discontinue basting at least 15minutes before the meat is done so that the marinade canbe heated to a high enough temperature to kill any bacteriathat may be present.  Do not use the leftover marinade asa sauce unless it has not come in contact with the raw meator you have boiled it for at least 5 minutes.  
Cooking Food
Always be sure to cook recipes at the appropriate temper-ature.  Cooking foods to an internal temperature of at least160° Fahrenheit kills most dangerous bacteria.  Uncookedor undercooked meat can harbor pathogens such as thenotorious E. coli bacteria (see sidebar:  Cooking It Safe,
this page).
Using Slow Cookers
Using a slow cooker is a popular way of preparing soups,stews, roasts, and other hearty dishes.  Because this devicecooks at relatively low temperatures—compared with theoven or stovetop—it is vital to exercise safe cooking habits.For example, thaw meat thoroughly and cut it into smallpieces.  Use recipes that call for plenty of liquid.  Bring toa boil quickly and then reduce heat to simmer.  Do notoverfill the cooker.  Be sure to use a thermometer to make
certain the temperature stays at 160° Fahrenheit or higher.
SERVING SAFELY
After taking care to prepare and cook food as safely aspossible, don’t contaminate it while it is being served.  Hereare a few tips. Avoid letting cooked foods cool on the table.Do not allow foods that contain perishable ingredients(such as raw eggs, homemade sauces, eggnog, or home-made Caesar dressing) to remain at room temperature forlonger than a few minutes.  Once finished serving, alwayspromptly place cooked or perishable foods in the refriger-ator or freezer.  At a picnic or party, keep cold foods onice and hot foods properly heated. Dishes, serving bowls, or other items made of glazed
lead-containing pottery can cause poisoning, particularlyin young children.  Make sure that the container that isused for cooking and serving is properly glazed (manufactureby a domestic pottery dealer should ensure this).  If indoubt, use the pottery for decoration rather than for cookingor serving food.
REFRIGERATING OR FREEZING FOOD
If warm or hot food is headed for storage in the refrigeratoror freezer, do not allow it to cool on the countertop.  Placewarm or hot food into a shallow pan to facilitate cooling andthen put it directly into the refrigerator or freezer.  If thequantity of food is large, distribute it in two or morecontainers to enable quicker cooling.
CLEAN IT
When you have finished eating, thoroughly wash pots andpans, utensils, and all kitchen surfaces (counter, stove tops,and sink) with soap and hot water.  Let cutting boards andutensils air dry.  Wash or replace sponges and dish towelsfrequently.  If you have an automatic dishwasher, it may behelpful to have two sponges so you can wash one with eachload of dishes. 
THEBOTTOM LINE ON FOOD SAFETY
With a little care, you can minimize the risk that you orothers will develop a food-borne illness.Chapter 5:  Preparing Healthful Meals 149
TEMPERATURE
TYPE OF FOOD (DEGREES FAHRENHEIT )
Fish and seafood 145 
Red meat or pork 
(including ground) 160 
Ground chicken or turkey 165 Poultry—breast 170Whole poultry and thighs 180Eggs Cook until egg white and 
yolk are firm, not runnyCOOKING ITSAFEENCYCLOPEDIA
FOODSOF
Part I I
Part I of this book reviewed the relationship of diet to health and provided recommenda-
tions for choosing foods and planning diets that contribute to health.  The healthiest
diets are based on a variety of plant foods—whole grains, vegetables, fruits, legumes, andnuts.  Animal products and added fats and oils, sugars, and other sweeteners are best consumedin small quantities.  The Food Guide Pyramid reviewed earlier in this book graphicallyemphasizes the proportions of these foods in the daily diet.  Accordingly, we have arrangedthis section with priority given to grains, fruits, and vegetables—those items that shouldpredominate at every meal and that most people need to consume in greater quantities.Animal products—meat and other high-protein foods and dairy foods—are also discussed.However, these are the foods that should make up relatively smaller parts of our diets.  
Part II introduces you to many foods from which you can choose and provides you with
knowledge about the nutrients these foods have to offer.  In addition, we provide informa-tion about the sources of the foods you purchase and eat—the individual plants and animals,how they are processed to the products that appear on store shelves, and some of the historyof these foods in our diet.
Before we introduce the foods themselves, we want to explain the arrangement and
presentation of food items in these sections.  Because this book is written for a North Americanaudience, we have included food products that are available to most North Americans.Within the sections on Fruits and Vegetables, we have listed items by their common namesin alphabetical order; when a food has more than one common name, the index should helpin locating the item.  Where there is a difference between the cultural or common use orperception of an item and its botanical nature, we have listed it according to common usageand mentioned the difference in the text.  For example, although cucumbers, eggplant,squash, and tomatoes are botanically fruits, they are listed withinthe vegetable section, because most American consumersthink of them as vegetables.  
The nutrient compositions of foods are derived
from the current version of the U.S. Departmentof Agriculture (USDA) nutrient compositiondatabase.  This database is maintained and updatedregularly by USDA laboratories and is the basis ofmost systems for estimating the nutrient content of foods and diets.
151152 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods153
Fruits
Our earliest ancestors built their diets entirely of vegetables, fruits, seeds, grains, legumes, and
nuts.  Throughout history, “fruit” has referred to any plant used as a food.  More recently,
“fruit” has come to mean the edible pulp or fleshy layer around a seed.  In the 18th century, the
word acquired a botanical definition:  the organ derived from the ovary and surrounding theseed.  At the same time, culinary custom defined fruits by their sweetness (or the balance of sweetto sour) and by how they are used in the meal, primarily as dessert.  Thus, even though eggplant,cucumber, squash, and tomatoes are technically fruits, we call them vegetables.  
Until recently, the availability of a fruit during the year depended on its growing season.  For
example, strawberries appeared in April and May, melons in August and September, whereassome fruits, such as apples and bananas, were available year-round.  Today, reliable transporta-tion brings fruit of every type to our markets year-round, although some imported fruits may bemore costly during the winter than their domestic counterparts are in the summer when theyare in season.
The revised Dietary Guidelines for Americans includes as 1 of its 10 principles the advice to
eat a variety of fruits (and vegetables) daily.  (For a discussion of the Dietary Guidelines and the5 a Day program, see Chapter 1, page 8.)  
To help you to be better informed and better plan your menus, this section provides information
on the origin and nutrient content of many fruits.  [(See the Appendix, page 434, for furtherinformation about the nutrient content of fruits.)]  Fruit is a valuable source of fiber, vitaminC, some of the B vitamins, vitamin A, and other antioxidants and phytonutrients.  (See theAppendix, Phytochemical Contents of Selected Foods, page 484).
The tables of nutrient values in the Fruits section are based on serving sizes specified by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Guide Pyramid.  Nutrient values are rounded (milligramsand micrograms tend to be rounded to one decimal point, grams are rounded to whole numbers).Nutrient claim statements listed beneath the common name of each fruit are based on the servingsize specified and the definitions in Chapter 4 (see sidebar:  Nutrient Claims, page 92).  Forexample, 1 medium apple is considered a good source of vitamin C, because an apple provides 13percent of the Daily Value for vitamin C.  A food that is high in a particular nutrient provides 20
percent or more of the Daily Value for that nutrient per serving.154 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The Florida Sweet variety, commonly
grown in California, yields large, juicyfruits that have a taste similar to apples.Manoa Sweet, a variety developed inHawaii, has orange-red fruits that are espe-cially sweet.  A dwarf variety, which growsto a height of only 2 feet, can tolerate lowertemperatures than the other varieties andis suited for container cultivation.
Origin & botanical facts
The acerola is believed to have originated
in the Yucatán peninsula of Mexico.Since its discovery, the plant has beenintroduced throughout the tropical andsubtropical regions of the world, but it isstill primarily grown in and around theWest Indies.
The acerola is a large, bushy shrub that
can attain a height of 15 feet.  Althoughthe plant grows best in hot tropical low-lands with medium to high rainfall, it isalso very drought-tolerant.  Acerolas needprotection against frost and winds because
their root system is shallow and they canbe toppled by high winds.  The leaves  arecovered with hair, are light to dark green,and become glossy when mature.  Thesmall, white to pink flowers bloomthroughout the year.  Because up to 90percent of the blossoms fall from theplant, only a few of the flowers set fruit.When grown from seed, plants begin tofruit after 2 or 3 years.  An 8-year-old treemay yield 30 to 60 pounds of fruit a year.
Uses
Because acerolas deteriorate quickly and
undergo rapid fermentation once removedfrom the tree, they should be refrigeratedif not used immediately. Unrefrigeratedfruits can develop mold within 3 to 5days.  Acerolas can be eaten raw, madeinto jams and jellies, or puréed into juice.They have been used as a supplementalsource of vitamin C, to make  baby food,and as an ingredient in ice cream.Nutrient composition
Acerolas contain  the most concentrated
source of natural vitamin C of any knownfruit, 100 times the vitamin C contentof  oranges and 10 times that of the guava.Green (unripe) fruits have twice the vit-amin C content of ripe fruits.  They arealso a good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene).
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 31
Water (%) 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 8
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 12
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 143
Magnesium 18
Phosphorus 11
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 75 RE
Vitamin C 1,644
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 14 μg
Vitamin E 0 
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:1 cup Acerola
Family Malpighiaceae
Scientific name Malpighia punicifolia L.,
Malpighia glabra L.
Common name Barbados cherry, West
Indian cherry, cereza
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene)Acerolas are round or oval, cherry-like fruits that range from 2 to 4 inches in
diameter.  When ripe, the skin turns bright red.  The soft, juicy flesh is yellowand has a slightly tart flavor.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 81
Water (%) 84
Dietary fiber (grams) 4
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 21
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 159
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 7 RE
Vitamin C 8
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 4 μg
Vitamin E 0Fruits 155
Varieties
Thousands of varieties of apples are grown
worldwide.  As a result, apples are avail-able in a seemingly endless array of colors,crispness, texture, size, sweetness, and aroma.Some of the more popular varieties in theU.S. marketplace are the Red and GoldenDelicious, Granny Smith, Fuji, Gala, andRome Beauty.
Origin & botanical facts
The apple is native to Asia and eastern
Europe.  The earliest recorded descrip-tion of apples appears in Greek literatureof the 4th century 
B.C.  The first apples
cultivated in the New World were grownfrom seed brought by the Pilgrims.Today, the leading apple-producingnations are Russia, China, the UnitedStates, Germany, France, and Italy.  Inthe United States, nearly half the domesticcrop is grown in Washington, and NewYork, California, Michigan, Pennsylvania,North Carolina, and Virginia produce formuch of the rest of the domestic market.SERVING
SIZE:1 medium (138 g)Apple
breakfast cereal.  Characteristics of flavor
and texture determine the optimal varietiesfor each use.  Crisp, crunchy, juicy, sweetor sweet-tart apples such as the G ranny
Smith, Fuji, Gala, or Red Delicious arebest for eating.  In general, firm-fleshed,tart apples such as the Golden Deliciousand Rome Beauty are best for bakingwhole.  Tart or slightly sour varieties aregood for pies and applesauce.
Nutrient composition
A medium-sized fresh apple is a good
source of vitamin C; however, most ofthe vitamin C is lost when the apple iscooked or made into juice.
Apples are a good source of dietary
fiber in the form of pectin.Family Rosaceae
Scientific name Malus pumila, 
Malus sylvestris, Pyrus malus
Common name apple
♥Good source of pectin, a soluble fiber
that helps reduce blood cholesterol
♥A good source of vitamin CThe apple is a pome, a round fruit that consists of firm, juicy flesh covered by a
thin, tough, edible skin and surrounding a cartilaginous, seeded core.  The skin
color of apples can range from dark green to yellow to bright red, or somecombination of these colors.  Apples that are 
just ripe are crisp and juicy, whereas those that are overripe attain an aromatic flavor and a slightly mealy texture.
Apples can grow virtually anywhere
with a moderate climate, although somevarieties are better suited to a particularregion.  Because fruit-bearing seasons varyby variety and region, apples are availableall year.  Standard-sized trees reach aheight and spread of 25 feet and require5 to 10 years to fruit.  Recently, dwarfand semidwarf trees have emerged; theserequire as few as 2 years to bear fruit.
Uses
When selecting apples, choose those with
firm flesh and tight skin that is free ofbruises, soft spots, and holes.  Largerapples tend to be more mealy than smallones.  To ripen apples, keep them at roomtemperature.  Apples store well for longperiods refrigerated or in a cool, dry place.Sliced apples quickly turn brown on expo-sure to air; however, this can be prevent-ed by dipping the fruit into acidulatedwater (dilute lemon juice).
As one of the most popular fruits in
the United States, apples are widespreadin the American cuisine.  They are usedin salads, alongside meats, and in pilafs,desserts, preserves, juices, cider, pies,breads, cakes, and alcoholic beverages(such as the liqueur calvados).  Driedapples make tasty snacks or additions to156 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Approximately 12 varieties of apricots
exist, with flesh that varies from yellowto deep orange.  Some of the betterknown varieties are the Blenheim, theTilton, the Patterson, and the Castlebrite.
Origin & botanical facts
The world’s leading producers of apricots
are T urkey, Italy, Russia, and Greece.Ninety percent of the U.S. domesticmarket is supplied by growers inCalifornia; Utah and Washington supplythe rest.  During the off-season, apricotsare imported from Chile and NewZealand.  Apricot trees grow to about 20feet in height and spread to a width of 30feet.  The white or pink flowers  appear inearly spring and give way to  fruits in latesummer.  Because of this early flowering,apricot yield may be limited by late froststhat kill the flowers.  The domestic cropis available from mid-May to mid-August,and imports arrive in December andJanuary.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 34
Water (%) 86
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 8
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 207
Magnesium 6
Phosphorus 13
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 183 RE
Vitamin C 7
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
2, raw (70 g)Apricot
Family Rosaceae
Scientific name Prunus armeniaca
Common name apricot
♥Good source of vitamin C
♥High in vitamin A (beta-carotene)The apricot is a round, fleshy fruit that is closely related to the peach, plum,
almond, and cherry.  It has a single seed enclosed in a stony shell.  The edible, pale-orange skin is smooth and velvety.  The flesh is drier than that of most other fruits.
Uses
Apricots are best when purchased ripe or
slightly underripe and allowed to ripenin a paper bag.  Green-tinged fruits willnot ripen properly and should be avoided.Ripe apricots can be stored in the refrig-erator up to a week, but apricots that aresoft and juicy should be eaten within aday or two of purchase.  Apricots shouldbe washed just before they are eaten.They are excellent eaten out of hand orused in any recipe that calls for peaches ornectarines.  Apricots should not becooked for an extended time because theytend to lose their flavor rather quickly;poaching is an ideal cooking method.Dried apricots are a convenient, nonper-ishable snack.
Nutrient composition
Fresh apricots are high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and are a good source of vita-min C.  (See the Appendix, page 434, forthe nutrient content of dried apricots.)Fruits 157
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 324
Water (%) 74
Dietary fiber (grams) 10
Fat (grams) 31
Carbohydrate (grams) 15
Protein (grams) 4
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 22
Iron 2
Zinc 1
Manganese –
Potassium 1,204
Magnesium 78
Phosphorus 82
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 123 RE
Vitamin C 16
Thiamin 0.2
Riboflavin 0.2
Niacin 3.8
Vitamin B 6 0.5
Folate 124 μg
Vitamin E 3
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Avocado
SERVING
SIZE:
1 medium (200 g)Varieties
The two most commonly sold varieties
of avocados in the United States are theHass and Fuerte, both grown in California.The Guatemalan Hass avocado, the mostpopular variety, has a thick, pebble-tex-tured and purplish skin and usuallyweighs no more than 12 ounces.  TheFuerte avocado, a Guatemalan-Mexican
hybrid, has a more pronounced pearshape and is slightly larger than the Hass.It has a shiny, thin, dark-green skin withsmall, raised, pale spots.  Florida-grownvarieties, which are Mexican in origin andinclude the Booth, Waldin, and Lula, arelarger, less costly, and more perishablethan California avocados.  In addition,they contain less fat and fewer caloriesand lack the rich, creamy flavor of theCalifornia varieties.
Origin & botanical facts
The avocado, native to the tropics and sub-
tropics of Central America, was first cul-tivated in the United States in the mid-1800s in Florida and California.  Ninetypercent of today’s domestic crop of avoca-dos is grown in California.  With a har-vest of 168,000 tons, the United States isthe second-largest grower of avocados inthe world, behind Mexico at 718,000 tons.The avocado tree, a popular shade tree
in rural and suburban Hawaii, California,and Florida, is a dense evergreen that mayreach a height of 80 feet.  
Avocados do not ripen on the tree;
ripening is inhibited by hormones pro-duced by the leaves.  This delay in ripen-ing is a commercial advantage becausethe fruit may be left unharvested for longperiods (up to 7 months).  However, over-ripe avocados may seed internally andbecome moldy.
Uses
Avocados that are unblemished and heavy
for their size are best.  Ripe avocados yieldslightly to finger pressure, but if the fingerleaves a dent, the avocado may be over-ripe. Ripening can be hastened by enclos-ing the fruit in a paper bag and leaving atroom temperature.  Ripe avocados shouldbe refrigerated and used within 1 to 2 days.
Because cooking destroys the flavor
of avocados, it is not recommended.Fresh avocados can be sliced and addedto cooked dishes just before serving.  Theycan be diced and mixed into salads,mashed to use in toppings or dips, puréedto use in cold soups and desserts, orjulienned to include in sushi rolls.  When
exposed to air, avocado flesh discolorsquickly.  Addition of lemon or lime juiceto mashed or puréed avocados can delaydiscoloration.  Placing an avocado pit ina bowl of mashed avocados will notprevent discoloration.
Nutrient composition
Avocados are known for their high fat
content; however, most is monounsaturatedfat.  They are low in saturated fat and aresodium- and cholesterol-free.  Avocados area good source of dietary fiber.  They alsocontain lutein, one of the carotenes that is aphytochemical with antioxidant properties.Family  Lauraceae
Scientific name Persea americana 
Common name avocado, alligator pear
♥Rich source of monounsaturated fat
♥Good source of fiberThe avocado is a pear-shaped fruit with skin that can be thick or thin, green 
or purplish black, and smooth or bumpy, depending on the variety.  The flesh of the avocado is pale yellow-green and has the consistency of firm butter and a faint nut-like flavor.158 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The familiar yellow banana sold in the
United States is the Cavendish variety,which is 5 to 10 inches in length andavailable all year.  Red bananas from LatinAmerica are slightly wider and are heavierand sweeter than yellow bananas.  Theirred skin turns purple when ripe. Manzanobananas (also called finger or applebananas) are short and chubby with amild, strawberry-apple flavor.  They turnfully black when ripe. Plantains (also calledgreen or cooking bananas), thick-skinnedbananas that range from green to yellowto brown-black, are a staple food in manyparts of the world.  When unripe plan-tains are cooked, they have no bananaflavor; however, when cooked ripe, theyhave a sweet banana taste and a slightlychewy texture.
Origin & botanical facts
Originating in the Malaysian region about
4,000 years ago, the banana was not intro-duced to the Americas until the PhiladelphiaCentennial Exhibition of 1876. T oday, the
banana is the leading fresh fruit sold inNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 109
Water (%) 74
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 28
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 467
Magnesium 34
Phosphorus 24
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 9 RE
Vitamin C 11
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.7
Folate 23 μg
Vitamin E 0Banana
SERVING
SIZE:
1 medium, raw (118 g)
The banana is an elongated, curved, tropical fruit with a smooth outer skin 
that peels off easily when the fruit is ripe.  Bananas are harvested while still green but may be ripened under controlled conditions before being delivered to the grocery store.  Yellow bananas are fully ripe when the skin has small flecks of brown.  The flesh of the ripe banana has a distinct creamy texture and sweet fragrance.
Family Musaceae
Scientific name Musa paradisiaca L.
Common name banana, plantain
♥High in vitamin B6
♥A good source of vitamin C,
potassium, and fiberripen (as most of the starch converts to
sugar) and are most often consumed rawor in desserts such as puddings, pies, andsweet breads.  Banana slices should bedipped into acidulated water (dilutelemon juice) to prevent browning.Puréed banana can be added to pancakebatter.  Because they are rich in tannins,plantains are bitter and must be cooked
to be palatable.
Nutrient composition
Bananas are high in vitamin B6and are a
good source of vitamin C, potassium, andfiber.  Red bananas and plantains are goodsources of vitamin A.  (See the Appendix,page 436, for the nutrient content ofplantains.)the United States and the second leading
fruit crop in the world.  The United Statesgrows about 4,000 tons of bananas annu-ally and imports a total of 1.6 million tonsannually from South America.  Worldwide,India is the largest banana grower, followedby Africa, where bananas are mostly keptfor local use.
A banana tree is technically not a tree,
but rather a tree-like herb that belongs tothe grass family.  It can attain a height of10 to 40 feet when fully grown.  The bananais actually a berry that has been cultivatedto have no seeds.  The non-woody bananastalk develops a flowering stem and sevento nine buds that each sustain one cluster(hand) of 10 to 20 bananas (fingers).  Thestalks are cut after producing the fruit, andnew stems grow from buds in the rootstock.
Uses
Ripening of green bananas can be hastened
by putting the fruit into a paper bag. Ripebananas can be stored in the refrigeratorfor up to 2 weeks; although the skin turns
dark brown, the fruit remains edible.Unripe bananas should not be refriger-ated.  Bananas become sweeter as theyBerry is a general term for fruits that are usually small, rounded, and 
pulpy with seeds embedded in a juicy flesh.  The term is loosely applied to a range of fruits belonging to vastly diverse botanical families.  Aside from the more popular berries such as the blackberry, blueberry, cranberry, currant, raspberry, and strawberry, there are a host of less common species, each with its own distinctive shape, color, fragrance, and taste.  Berries were a staple in the diets of our hunting-and-gathering ancestors and still play an important role in the culinary traditions of many peoples around the world.  American Indians used various types of berries as food, medicine, dyes, and food preservatives.  Early American settlers developed a taste for the many varieties growing wild in woods and fields of North America, and they learned to use the berries for food and medicine.Research has shown that several berries have medicinal properties.  (Cranberries and blueberries help prevent urinary tract infections.)  Most berries contain generous amounts of vitamin C, and some are a good source of fiber because of the skin and seeds.Fruits 159
Blackberries are high in vitamin C, are
a good source of dietary fiber, and contain
ellagic acid, a phyto chemical that may help
prevent cancer.
Blueberry
Family  Ericaceae
Scientific name Vaccinium myrtillis
Common name blueberrythe Marion (a tart variety). Boysenberries,
loganberries, ollalaberries, sylvanberries,and tayberries are hybrids of blackberriesand raspberries.
Blackberries are found throughout
the temperate zones of the world, growingwild in meadows and at the edge of forests.The bushes flower in spring and bear fruitthroughout the summer.  Borne in looseclusters on stems that grow from thecanes, the berries change from green tored and then to purplish black as theyripen.  Blackberry bushes are so vigor-ously invasive that they are considered aweed in some areas.
Plump, deeply colored blackberries
are the most delicious to eat, and immaturered berries are tart. Blackberries are bestused immediately, because they spoilquickly.  They can be lightly covered andrefrigerated for 1 to 2 days.  Blackberries canbe eaten fresh; used as a topping foryogurt, ice cream, and pancakes; tossedinto a fruit salad; puréed to make a dessertsauce; or made into blackberry pie.  About98 percent of commercially producedberries are processed into jams, fillings,juices, wines, and brandies.Blackberry
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Rubus fructicosus
(European) , Rubus villosus (American)
Common name blackberry, bramble berry,
dewberry, goutberry
Berries
Also called bramble berries because they
grow on thorny bushes (brambles), black-berries range from one-half to an inchlong when mature and are purplish black.Like raspberries, to which they are related,blackberries are oblong and are made upof small edible seeds that are encased injuicy globules adjoining a fleshy base.
The most common varieties of black-
berry are the Cherokee (a sweet variety) andBlueberries, a species native to North
America, grow in shades varying from lightblue to dark purple.  Round to oval, theberries have a smooth skin that is somewhatwaxy and covered with a powdery silver film160 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Berries
progresses.  The berries are very perishable
and easily damaged by improper handling
and extreme temperatures.
Blueberries are one of the most popu-
lar berries in the United States, secondonly to strawberries.  They can be eatendried or fresh as a snack food; added to
cereals, salads, yogurt, or ice cream; usedas an ingredient in pancakes, muffins,pies, breads, or sauces or as cake topping;or puréed to make jam or jelly.  Althoughthe blueberry season is short, berries canbe bought in the off-season in frozen,canned, or dried form.
Blueberries are a good source of
vitamin C.
Recent research has shown that blue-
berries may help prevent urinary tractinfection by increasing the acidity ofurine, which helps destroy bacteria, andby preventing bacteria from colonizingon the bladder walls.
Cranberry
Family  Ericaceae
Scientific name Vaccinium macrocarpon,
Vaccinium oxycoccus
Common name cranberry, bounceberry,
lingonberryor “bloom.” Blueberries were once called
star berries because of the star-shaped calyxon the top of each fruit. Cultivated blue-berries can be as large as 3/4 inch in diame-ter, although the “wild” varieties are only1/4 to 1/2 inch in diameter.
At least 50 species of blueberries, both
cultivated and wild, have been identified.The two types of cultivated blueberries arehighbrush and rabbiteye.  Highbrushblueberries, V. corymbosum L., are grown
throughout North America, whereas therabbiteye varieties, V. ashei Reade, are better
adapted to southern regions of the UnitedStates. Lowbush (wild) blueberries, V.
angustifolium Ait., grow naturally in Maine,
Nova Scotia, and Quebec. These plantsproduce blueberries that are prized for theirintense flavor.  The lowbush (wild) blue-berry varieties grow to about 3 feet inheight, whereas the highbush and rabbiteyecultivars can grow to more than 10 feet ifnot pruned.  The desirable flavor, color,and texture of today’s cultivars are the resultof nearly 100 years of hybridization.
Blueberries have been used as a source
of food and folk medicine for thousands ofyears.  Early explorers of North America,such as Lewis and Clark, noted thatAmerican Indians smoked the berries to pre-serve them for winter and pounded theberries with beef to make a jerky called pem-mican.  Blueberries were also appreciatedby the early American settlers as both a foodand a medicine.
The blueberry plant is a compact,
woody shrub that is related to the bilberry,cranberry, and huckleberry. Blueberriesgrow in clusters, but because the berriesripen at different times,  they must behandpicked to harvest the best of the earlyfruit.  Later, a harvesting machine is usedto gently shake each bush so that only theripe berries fall off.  The blueberry sea-son lasts only from mid-April to lateSeptember, beginning in the southernstates and moving north as the seasonmaroon.  About one-third of an inch in
diameter and half-inch to an inch long, thecranberry has seeds that are attached to thecenter of the fruit and are surrounded by atart white pulp.  Also called bounceberries,because they bounce when ripe, cranberriesbelong to the same family as blueberriesand huckleberries; but unlike these fruits,cranberries are too tart to eat raw.
Cranberries are divided into three
types.  The most common is the largeVaccinium macrocarpon , grown for com-
mercial purposes.  Vaccinium oxycoccus ,
commonly called the mossberry or smallcranberry,  is found wild in some areas.Vaccinium vitis-idaea , or the lingonberry,
grows well in very cold climates and iscurrently being developed as a crop inseveral eastern European countries.
Cranberries grow on a flat, woody,
evergreen “vine” that thrives in acidic soil.Cranberry vines are planted in peat bogsprepared in a way that allows the plantsto be covered with water to protect themfrom cold damage.  The pink or purplecranberry flowers can be self-pollinated,but crop yield is much greater when beesare used to facilitate pollination. Theberries are borne on short uprights 6 to 8inches in length that rise from a densemass of stems on the soil surface.
Cranberries are extensively cultivated
for commercial use in the northern states.Massachusetts is the largest producer,followed by Wisconsin, New Jersey,Washington, and Oregon.  Cranberrycultivation is also common throughoutCanada. Harvested between Labor Dayand Halloween, cranberries enjoy theirpeak market season from Octoberthrough December.
The Pilgrims dined on cranberry
dishes at the first Thanksgiving in 1621.Once only a traditional holiday food,cranberries are now consumed through-out the year as juice drinks, dried snacks,sauces, and relishes.  Because of their sourCranberries, which are native to North
America, are small, smooth-skinned, roundberries that are glossy deep red to red-Fruits 161
leaves resemble those of the maple tree
in shape, but they are pale green on blackcurrant bushes and dark blue-green onred currant plants.  Some varieties areupright, and others spread.  The self-fertilizing flowers that give rise to redcurrants are green, and those thatproduce black currants are pink.  Plantsare generally pollinated by insects.  Theberries, averaging about a fourth of aninch in diameter, hang in clusters fromdelicate, drooping stems called strigs.Currants prefer cold climates, heavy,moist, enriched  soil, and full sun or lightshade.  Although they can be propagatedby seed in the spring or by cuttings inthe early fall, bushes grown from seedproduce no fruit for 2 to 3 years.Pruning to remove wood that is morethan 3 years old encourages the growthof new shoots.
Black currants are harvested selectively
as they ripen and before they shrivel andfall from the bush.  Red and white cur-rants are pulled by the cluster to avoiddamaging the delicate fruit.  If the berriesare going to be used for jams or jellies,they must be picked before they ripenfully because that is when the fruit pectinlevels are highest.  Berries grown for eat-ing are allowed to ripen on the bush forseveral weeks after achieving  full color.A mature currant bush can produce upto 4 quarts of fruit each year.
Because of their tartness, currants,
particularly black currants, are rarely eatenas fresh fruit. Instead, they are made intojams and jellies or used in pies and sauces.Black currants are sometimes soaked inbrandy or made into wine, sometimesmixed with honey and spirits. Black cur-rants are the basis for the French liqueurcrème de cassis.  An infusion of the youngleaves of the black currant shrub makesa drink similar to green tea.
Currants are high in vitamin C.  Black
currants are a good source of potassium.
taste, they must be combined with sweetfoods such as sugar or orange juice tomake them palatable.  Only about 10 per-cent of the commercial crop is sold fresh;the rest is processed into juice or cannedcranberry sauce. 
Cranberry juice cocktail is considered
effective for preventing or treating urinarytract infections, in part because of its highacidity and its ability to inhibit bacteriafrom adhering to the lining of the urinarytract.
Fresh cranberries are a good source of
vitamin C.  In addition, they contain bio-flavonoids, plant pigments with antioxi-dant properties.
Currant
Family  Saxifragaceae
Scientific name Ribes rubrum, Ribes
vulgare, Ribes petraeum, Ribes sativum,Ribes nigrum, Ribes ussuriense
Common name currant (red, pink, white,
black, and Asian)
Currants are small, spherical berries with
thin, translucent skin that can be red, pink,white, or black.  They have a soft, juicypulp that contains several edible seeds.The flavor of currants varies from slightlyto exceedingly tart. T rue currants are notto be confused with the zante currant, avariety of small, dried grape (raisin).Currants are categorized by their
color. Common red currants include theRed Lake, a mild-flavored, bright-redberry, and the Perfection, a medium tolarge, flavorful variety.  The WhiteImperial, a small, round, white berry thatgrows on a spreading bush, has the lowestacid content of any currant.  The mostcommon pink currant is the Gloire desSablons, an ancient French variety withpink flesh and colorless skin.  TheBoskoop is a well-flavored black currant,produced on a vigorous, upright bush.  TheWilloughby is a mild, black Canadiancurrant that is hardy to cold and sun andresists mildew.
Currants appear to have originated in
northern Europe, northern Africa, Siberia,and in the Western Hemisphere, wherethey were eaten by American Indians wellbefore their first contact with Europeans.American Indians historically have usedcurrants for both food and medicinalpurposes.  The Coast Salish Indians ofVancouver Island boiled the fruit and driedit into rectangular cakes for use as a win-ter food.  The Woodlands Cree Indiansused currant jam as a condiment for fish,meat, and bread. Before 1550, the Englishcalled this fruit ribes, a name of ancientIndo-European origin.  Subsequently, theberries came to be called currants, a wordderived from the berry’s resemblance tothe dried Greek raisins that are made fromsmall seedless grapes.  English andEuropean colonists in the Americas foundcurrants growing wild in woods and fieldsand quickly developed a taste for them.Today, currants are commonly cultivatedin Europe, Canada, New Zealand, and theUnited States.  Europeans and Canadiansseem to prefer black currants, and the lesstart red and white varieties are more pop-ular among Americans.
Currant plants are fast-growing,
deciduous, perennial shrubs that canreach 5 feet in height and width.  Their162 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Berries
Elderberry
Family  Caprifoliaceae
Scientific name Sambucus canadensis,
Sambucus coerulea
Common name elderberryThe fruit consists of a translucent skin
tightly surrounding a white pulp thatencloses several small seeds.  The berriesrange from a fourth to an inch in diameter.
Most varieties of gooseberry available
in the United States are hybrids of the twomain species, European and American.The fruits of the European variety areabout 1 inch in diameter.  The Americanvariety is smaller and rounder and is pinkto purplish-red when mature.
The European gooseberry  is native
to the Caucasus Mountains and northernAfrica, and the American variety is nativeto the northeastern and north centralregions of the United States. Gooseberrieshave been cultivated in Europe since the15th century. The plants are very resis-tant to cold temperatures and grow wellin cool, temperate climates.
Gooseberry plants are small, decidu-
ous, woody shrubs, about 4 to 5 feet inheight, with prominent thorns at thenodes.  The fruits are produced along thestems singly or in small groups of two tofour.  The fruits generally drop from theshrub when they are overripe.
Because of their tartness, gooseberries
are usually cooked with sugar and noteaten fresh.  This tart but versatile berrycan be used by itself or blended with otherfruits to make pies, jams, or jellies.Gooseberry sauce prepared from under-ripe berries complements such dishes asroasted goose or duck.  Gooseberries arealso made into wine or vinegar.  Fordesserts, the larger, thinner-skinned,sweeter types are picked when fully ripe.The European gooseberry is usually pre-ferred to the American type.
Gooseberries are high in vitamin C
and are a good source of fiber andbioflavonoids, plant pigments withantioxidant properties.feet in height, or as a small tree, up to 20
feet in height, with hollow stems thatsupport large compounded leaves.  Idealgrowth conditions include rich, sandysoil and direct sunlight or medium shade.The plant can be found growing wild inmeadows or pastures or along roadsides.The plant produces sprays of small, whiteflowers, up to 6 inches in diameter, thatgive way to large clusters of berries, 6 to9 inches wide.
Because of the tartness of the fresh
fruit and a toxic alkaloid that is containedin the seeds (which is destroyed by heat),the berries are always cooked beforeeating.  Alternatively, the berries can beadded to pies or made into jam or wine.
Elderberries are high in vitamin C,
fiber, and bioflavonoids, plant pigmentswith antioxidant properties.
Gooseberry
Family  Saxifragaceae
Scientific name Ribes hirtellum (American
gooseberry), Ribes grossularia (European
gooseberry)
Common name gooseberryElderberries are tiny berries that range
from purple-red to blue and purple-black.
The elderberry tree is an American
version of the common elder tree that is found
on European, Asian, and northern Africansoils.  The eastern elderberry Sambucus
canadensis and the Western Sambucus
coerulea are two common varieties.
The elder tree, which belongs to the
honeysuckle family, has been around forcenturies and may date back to the StoneAge.  The Egyptians harvested its flowersand extracted their essence to use asmedicine and to beautify the skin. In theMiddle Ages, it was believed that the eldertree was home to witches and that cut-ting it down would create trouble bydisturbing those residing in the branches.In contrast, the Russians and the Englishbelieved that the elder tree warded off evilspirits.  Hence, it was considered goodluck to plant an elder tree near one’shome.  The Sicilians believed that sticksof elder wood could kill snakes and driveaway thieves.
The plant is an evergreen that lives
either as a large shrub, no more than 12Gooseberries are round fruits that vary
from white to yellow, green, pink, red,purple, and nearly black.  The color ofthe fruit is most intense in full sunlight.
Fruits 163
which are the essential food for silkworms.
The white mulberry became naturalizedin Europe, and both the trees and the silk-worms were introduced to the UnitedStates in early colonial times in an attemptto start a silk industry.  
Mulberries can be eaten raw or used to
make jams, jellies, sorbet, ice cream, frozenmeringue, pudding, and sauces.  Slightlyunripe, tart berries are best for making piesand tarts.  Mulberries also make aninteresting wine and are excellent as driedfruits.  In medieval England, the berrieswere puréed to make murrey, which wasadded to spiced meats or used as a pudding.
Mulberries are high in vitamin C.
Raspberry
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Rubus idaeus, Rubus
strigosus
Common name raspberryfrom the stem, the core remains behind,
leaving a hollow cavity in the fruit.Raspberry varieties are distinguished bycolor.  Red berries are the most commonand popular, black raspberries are some-what smaller and less round, and goldenberries, which are available only in limitedquantities, can vary from yellow to orange,amber, and even white.  Raspberries arefragrant and sweet, with a slight tartness.The raspberry is sometimes consideredthe most intensely flavored of the berryfamily.
T races of wild raspberries have been
found at prehistoric sites in Asia, andAmerican Indians used wild raspberriesmedicinally.  Red raspberries have beencultivated in Europe for more than 400years, brought home by Crusaders whofound them growing in the Mount Idaregion in T urkey. During the 18thcentury, the cultivation of raspberriesimproved, and by the 19th century, theywere being grown widely throughoutEurope and North America.  By the 1860s,more than 40 varieties were known.  Today,about 90 percent of all domestic rasp-berries are grown in Oregon, Washington,and California, with some imported fromCanada and Chile during the off-peakseason.
Raspberries are thorny, perennial
bushes that can reach heights of 10 feet.They prefer cool summers, mild winters,and a dry harvest season.  Three years isrequired for the bushes to begin produc-ing the delicate white flowers from whichthe berries form on erect stalks or canes.Mature berries must be handled carefullybecause they are fragile and easily damaged.Some are packed in small containers forthe fresh market, but the bulk of the har-vest is processed into frozen, concentrated,or canned forms.
Raspberries are best eaten within 1 to
2 days of purchase.  If possible, they shouldnot be washed, because they absorb waterMulberry
Family  Moraceae
Scientific name Morus species
Common name mulberry
Botanically, the mulberry is not a berry
but a collective fruit.  After the flowersare pollinated, they and their fleshy basesswell and become succulent and full ofjuice, like the drupes of a blackberry,which the mulberry resembles in size andshape.
There are three principal species, the
names of which refer not to the color ofthe fruit but to the color of the buds.  Theblack mulberry ( M. nigra ) is native to
western Asia and has been grown inEurope and the Middle East since ancienttimes for its fruits. Large, juicy, and bluishblack, the black mulberry is no doubt themost flavorful, with its refreshing com-bination of sweetness and tartness.  TheAmerican, or red, mulberry ( M. rubra ),
indigenous to the eastern U nited States,
grows wild from Massachusetts  to the GulfCoast. Usually a deep red-purple, the redmulberry is not as tasty as its black cousin.The white mulberry ( M. alba ) is the least
tasty of the three, with an unpleasantsweetness that lacks the pleasing tartnessof the black mulberry.  The plant is nativeto eastern and central China, where thetree has long been cultivated for its leaves,
Raspberries are small aggregate fruits,composed of numerous, small drupelets,each containing a small seed andclustering together around a central core.They range from a half to an inch or morein diameter.  When the berry is picked164 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Berries
and become mushy, but they can be rinsed
quickly just before serving.  Whole berriescan be frozen for up to 1 year.
Fresh raspberries make a delicious top-
ping for cereals, pancakes and waffles,yogurt, puddings, cake, and ice cream; acolorful, sweet addition to fruit or greensalads; and an excellent snack eaten rightout of hand.  They can be preserved inbrandy or syrup or added to vinegar to make
a delicious salad dressing.  Raspberries make
wonderful tarts, jams, jellies, compotes,wine, and beer and are an elegant additionto champagne and punch.  Cooked rasp-berries, mixed with a touch of lemon ororange juice to enhance their color, makea tasty sauce for chicken and fish dishes.
Raspberries are high in vitamin C and
are also a good source of both soluble andinsoluble fiber.
STrawberry
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Fragaria vesca, Fragaria
americana
Common name strawberryare pollinated.  The real fruits are the 200
seeds, called achene, that cover the berry’ssurface.  The plant itself is a low-grow-ing perennial that produces horizontalrunners, or stolons, that spread out fromthe base and take root to form new plants.
The hundreds of varieties of straw-
berries in the United States, which vary insize, color, and taste, are distinguishedprimarily by their locale. Some Californiavarieties include Chandler, Selva,Seascape, and Camaroso.  Florida vari-eties include the Florida 90, with large,red, flavorful fruit; the Tioga, a large,vigorous plant with medium-qualityberries; the Florida Belle, a disease-resis-tant variety with red, conical fruit; andthe Sequoia, with high-quality fruit thattends to be soft when ripe.
Strawberries, which are native to
Europe and North and South America,thrive in temperate zones throughout theworld and have a history more than 2,000years old.  Wild strawberries, which aresmaller but more fragrant and flavorfulthan cultivated varieties, grew in Italy asearly as the 3rd century 
B.C.  American
Indians are known to have cultivatedstrawberries by the 17th century to eatfresh and also dried and added to wintersoups.  They also used them medicinally,to make dyes, and as preservatives forother food.  In the early 18th century, theFrench developed larger strawberries bycrossing two wild varieties.  These plantsare believed to be the source of the largecultivated strawberries we enjoy today.
Although the source of the name
“strawberry” is unknown, it may derivefrom the practice of placing straw aroundthe plants for protection, from therunners that the plant sends out, or fromthe Anglo-Saxon verb “to strew,” whichcould have led to names such as strea-bergen, streberie, straibery, and, finally,the English strawberry.
Strawberries prefer well-drained,
moist, sandy soils, warm days, and coolnights.  The flowers, usually white but
sometimes pink, give rise to berries thatripen about a month after the blossomsform.  Most varieties of strawberry con-tinue to bloom and produce fruitthroughout the harvest season.  The fruitis picked at the peak of its freshness anddoes not ripen after harvesting.  Becausestrawberries are easily bruised, they arecarefully hand-picked, sorted, and packedin the field and then rushed to coolingfacilities.  They are stored for only 24hours before being shipped in refrigeratedtrucks to markets.
In California, where strawberries have
been cultivated since the early 1900s, thefruit grows 10 months of the year, fromJanuary through November; the peakseason falls between April and June.  Infact,  California produces more than 80percent of all domestic strawberries, about1 billion tons per year.  In Florida, thesecond-largest producing state, straw-berries are grown in the winter monthsonly, and Oregon cultivates berries mostlyfor frozen products.  Although other statesproduce strawberries, they usually areavailable only in the warm summer monthsfor local markets.  Some strawberries arealso imported from Mexico and NewZealand.
The freshness and flavor of strawber-
ries can be preserved if they are notwashed until just before they are to be eaten.Fresh strawberries are most frequentlyserved sliced over small shortcakes, toppedwith whipped cream; used as a garnishfor appetizer and cheese platters; or addedto fresh fruit tarts. Whole, long-stemmedstrawberries dipped in chocolate make anelegant dessert.  Strawberries are alsoadded to rhubarb pies and made into pre-serves. Mixed in a blender with low-fatmilk or yogurt, honey, and other fruits,they make a refreshing, nutritious shake.
Strawberries are high in vitamin C.The sweet, juicy, bright-red strawberry
is actually not really a fruit in thebotanical sense but a swelling of theplant’s stalks that occurs after the flowersFruits 165
Nutrient Content
Black- Blue- Cran- Currant Elder- Goose- Mul- Rasp- Straw-
berry berry berry (red) berry berry berry berry berry
Energy (kilocalories) 37 41 23 31 53 33 30 30 22
Water (%) 86 85 87 84 80 88 88 87 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 42225 3 1 4 2
Fat (grams) 00000 0 0 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9 1 068 1 3 8 7 7 5
Protein (grams) 10010 1 1 1 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 23 4 3 18 28 19 27 14 10
Iron 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0
Zinc 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Manganese 1 0 0 0 – 0 – 1 0
Potassium 141 65 34 154 203 149 136 93 120
Magnesium 14 4 2 7 4 8 13 11 7
Phosphorus 15 7 4 25 28 20 27 7 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A (RE) 12 7 2 7 44 22 2 8 2
Vitamin C 15 9 6 23 26 21 25 15 41
Thiamin 0 0 0 0 0.1 0 0 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.1 0.1 0
Niacin 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Vitamin B 6 0 0 0 0 0.2 0.1 0 0 0
Folate (μg) 24 5 1 4 4 5 4 16 13
Vitamin E 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup 166 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
On the island of Maui in Hawaii, almost
100 varieties of breadfruit, called “ulu,”are grown at Kahanu Gardens of theNational T ropical Botanical Garden.
Origin & botanical facts
Native to the Pacific, particularly Polynesia
and southeast Asia, the beautiful, smooth-barked breadfruit tree grows to about 60feet tall, with dark-green, palmate leavesup to 3 feet long. Breadfruit was veryimportant in the lives of early Polynesianpeople, who carried it with them in theircanoes and planted trees wherever theysettled throughout the Pacific Islands.  InHawaiian tradition, breadfruit is a symbolof creation and of the creator’s generosityand love.  Today, however, the largest pro-ducers of breadfruit are the CaribbeanIslands.
Each breadfruit actually is composed
of thousands of small fruit growingtogether around a core. Breadfruit is gen-erally picked while it is firm and beforeNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 99
Water (%) 70
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 26
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 16
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 470
Magnesium 24
Phosphorus 29
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 4 RE
Vitamin C 28
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 13 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
1/4 small (96 g)Breadfruit
Family  Moraceae (fig or mulberry)
Scientific name Artocarpus communis,
Artocarpus altilis
Common name breadfruit
♥High in vitamin C and dietary fiber 
♥A good source of potassiumin a cool area. Like squash or potatoes,
breadfruit can be peeled and boiled,steamed, baked, grilled, stir-fried, or madeinto a salad resembling potato salad.  Italso can be preserved through fermenta-tion.  In Hawaii it is sometimes poundedinto a paste called “ulu poi.” (Hawaiianpoi usually is made from taro root.)Despite its name, it is not used to makebread.  In the Pacific, the sap and woodof the breadfruit plant have various non-culinary uses.  Breadfruit is sold fresh insome ethnic markets or specialty stores, orit is sometimes available canned.
Nutrient composition
Breadfruit is high in vitamin C and fiber
and is a good source of potassium.it ripens, becomes overly sweet, and falls
to the ground.
Breadfruit grows in hot, wet, tropical
lowlands, tolerating a variety of well-drained soils. The fruit is propagated fromshoots that develop from the tree’s roots,or from root cuttings themselves. Thetree produces an extensive root system,so it must be planted where it will haveroom to grow. It does not transplanteasily. T rees bear fruit 5 to 7 years afterthe shoots are planted, and generally twocrops of fruit mature during the year, oncebetween April and June, and oncebetween October and January.
Breadfruit must be harvested by hand,
by climbing the tree and cutting or snap-ping off the stem close to the branch. Ifknocked from the tree, bruises will causerapid softening. Because individual bread-fruits do not develop at the same rate,each tree must be harvested several timesduring the season.
Uses
Breadfruit that is slightly soft with a
yellow to tan rind and no bruises shouldbe chosen.  The fruit can be stored up to10 days if wrapped in plastic and placedBreadfruit is a large oblong or round fruit, 8 to 10 inches in diameter and up to
10 pounds in weight, with a thin, bumpy skin that turns green-brown to yellowas the fruit ripens. The meat is cream-colored, mealy, and starchy in texture, and it is blandly sweet, similar to the potato.  Thus, it is not eaten as a fruit but as a high-carbohydrate vegetable. Mature breadfruit is dark, dull, greenish brown, with stains on the surface from the milky sap that is exuded by the fruit.Fruits 167
CALAMONDIN
Family Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrofortunella mitis
Common name calamondin
♥No nutritional information is available
Origin & Botanical facts
Calamondin is a native of the Philippines
but has its origin in China. The fruitwas brought to Florida from Panama via
Chile in the late 1800s. It is cultivated inFlorida and in California and is mostlyrecognized for its ornamental value.According to ancient Chinese beliefs, aflourishing calamondin tree will bringgood luck to the household.  Unlikemany of its cousins in the citrus family, itis able to withstand mild cold tempera-tures. However, it thrives best in filteredsunlight and acidic soil at temperaturesranging between 60° and 85° Fahrenheit.Excess moisture may damage its roots.The dwarf tree produces very decorative,fragrant white flowers about an inch indiameter, and it is valued as an ornamen-tal houseplant whose beauty lasts throughthe year.  Its golden fruits can take up to12 months to mature and ripen.Uses
Aside from its use as a garnish, cala-
mondin is appreciated for its distinctiveflavor.  The entire fruit, except for theseeds, can be consumed.  The fruit is bestused within a week of  harvesting when itis still green.  Once it reaches deep yellow,it must be kept refrigerated to retain itscrispness and aroma. The fruit can bekept refrigerated up to 2 weeks.  This tinyfruit releases a highly acidic (almost causticin taste) juice that works wonderfully asa flavor enhancer  in a variety of dishes,from fish to noodles, soups, sauces, anddesserts. It also is used to make preserves.Calamondin juice serves as a base in manybeverages.
Calamondin, also called “acid orange,” is a citrus fruit resembling a miniatureorange. It is a slightly oblong fruit about 1 to 1.5 inches in diameter.  The ediblepeel is smooth and tender and varies in color, ranging from yellowish green whenpremature to deep orange when ripe.  The flesh is juicy and orange and forms a segmentedcrown around a small semi-hollowaxis.  Calamondin contains a small number of seeds with green cotyledons.  The fruit is extremely sour but can also be very bitter if picked before maturity.
Varieties
Calamondin is one of several hundred
subspecies of the genus Citrus .  It belongs
to the family that includes lemons, limes,and kumquats. Cross-breeders believethat it may be a hybrid of lime and man-darin.  Others think it resembles a crossbetween the kumquat and the tangerine.It is a close relative to the “kalamansi,”also known as “musk lime,” which is usedextensively in southeast Asian cuisine.
168 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
T wo types of carambola are available:  the
tart varieties and the sweet.  The leadingcommercial variety, the Arkin, is sweetand has a bright-yellow to yellow-orangeskin and flesh.  Another common varietyis the Golden Star, a fruit that is slightlylarger than the Arkin and mildly tart.Other varieties include the Fwang T ung,
Hoku, Kaiang, Maha, Sri Kembanqan,Wheeler, Thayer, and Newcombe.
Origin & botanical facts
The carambola has been cultivated in
southeast Asia for many centuries and isthought to have originated in what is nowSri Lanka or in Malaysia.  The carambolawas introduced into Florida around 1887,and later Hawaii.  Currently, the majorsuppliers worldwide include Taiwan,Malaysia, Guyana, India, the Philippines,Australia, and Israel.
The carambola tree is a slow-grow-
ing, short evergreen (25 to 30 feet highand 20 to 25 feet wide) that can be single-trunked or multitrunked. CarambolaNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 42
Water (%) 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 10
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 207
Magnesium 11
Phosphorus 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 62 RE
Vitamin C 27
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 18 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1, raw (127 g)CARAMBOLA
Family  Oxalidaceae
Scientific name Averrhoa carambola
Common name starfruit, carambola, star
apple
♥High in vitamin C
♥Good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene) and fiberleaves are compound structures composed
of smaller ovoid to oblong leaflets.  Theleaves are spirally arranged on the branchand are sensitive to light and suddenmovements (they fold up during the nightor when the tree is abruptly shaken).Although classified as a subtropical plant,the tree can tolerate short periods of frostwith little damage.
If picked before ripening, green
carambola fruit eventually turns yellow.However, the fruit is sweetest if allowedto ripen on the tree.
Uses
Carambolas are easily damaged, and it is
best to choose fruits that are firm andshiny.  The fruit can be refrigerated in amoderately humid area for about 3 weekswithout damage or loss in fruit quality.When transferred to room temperature,fruits that have been picked before fullyripe will turn yellow.  The sweet variety isgenerally eaten fresh, either whole or sliced.Juiced, preserved, dried, and canned ver-sions also are available.  The tart varietyis used for making jams.  Before the fruitis served, the darker edge of the cells (orridges) should be removed and the fruitsliced crosswise.  The star-shaped sectionsare often used as garnishes for light summer
entrées.  Rubbing a very small amountof salt onto the exposed flesh will preventthe darkening that is caused by exposureto the air.  Other uses for the fruit includepickling, adding it to salsa and salads,puréeing it for chutney, grilling it onskewers with seafood or chicken, using itas a garnish, and adding it to puddings,tarts, stews, and curries.  In Hawaii,carambola juice is mixed with gelatin,sugar, lemon juice, and boiling water tomake sherbet.
Nutrient composition
Carambolas are high in vitamin C and
are  a good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene). The fruit is also a good sourceof dietary fiber.The carambola is an oval to elliptical fruit with a thin, shiny, waxy surface and a
greenish yellow skin.  Its length ranges from 2 to 6 inches with four to six prominent vertical lobes (cells) that result in star-shaped slices when cut crosswise.  The flesh is light to dark yellow, crunchy, juicy, and translucent.  The flavor resembles a blend of the flavors of manyfruits.  Up to 12 small, thin, edible seeds are contained in each fruit, enclosed by a thin gelatinous pocket.Fruits 169
Varieties
Of the more than 50 varieties of cheri-
moya, most were developed in California.The Bays, from Ventura, California, is amedium-sized fruit with a lemony flavor,and the Booth, which tastes like papaya,is one of the hardiest.
Origin & botanical facts
As with other members of the Annonaceae
family (such as atemoya, soursop, andsweetsop), the cherimoya is believed tohave originated in the inter-Andean v alleys
of Ecuador, Colombia, and Peru.  The seeds
were brought to California in 1871 andplanted in the area of Carpinteria, southof Santa Barbara.  Today, cherimoyas aregrown in many parts of the tropical andsubtropical world, including El Salvador,Mexico, Malaysia, the Philippines, andVietnam. California is the only NorthAmerican producer of the cherimoya, andthe fruit is not exported to other states.
The cherimoya tree is a dense, fast-
growing, subtropical or mild-temperateevergreen that can grow to 30 feet tall ifNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 64
Water (%) 74
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 16
Iron 0
Zinc –
Manganese –
Potassium –
Magnesium –
Phosphorus 27
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 –
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1/8 (68 g)Cherimoya
Family Annonaceae
Scientific name Annona cherimola
Common name cherimoya, custard apple
♥A good source of vitamin C
♥Provides some dietary fiberand should be stored in the refrigerator
for no more than 1 to 2 days.  Careshould be used when handling the fruits,because cherimoyas are very fragile.  Thefruit is best served chilled.  The ripe fruitis cut in half or quartered and the fleshspooned out, cubed, or sliced and addedto fruit salads.  The pulp also can be puréedand used as a topping for puddings andfrozen desserts or made into refreshingsorbets, ice creams, or milk shakes.  Thefruit itself also can be served frozen.
Nutrient composition
The cherimoya is a good source of vita-
min C and provides some dietary fiber.not pruned. The large, dark-green leaves
have velvety undersides and prominentveins. Cherimoya trees can grow in a widerange of soil types but seem to grow bestin well-drained, medium soil of moderatefertility. They do not flourish in hot, humidclimates, but prefer sunny exposure, lightcoastal air, and cool nights. The trees cantolerate a light frost and require somechilling to produce well.
Cherimoyas generally are propagated
by seed or grafting.  A tree grown fromseed will produce fruit after 5 or 6 years,but grafted trees will produce fruit in 3to 4 years.  The greenish brown flowersof the cherimoya tree open first as femaleflowers for 36 hours, and later as maleflowers.  However, they usually are hand-pollinated.  The fruits are clipped fromthe tree while they are still firm, becausethey usually crack open and decay if leftto ripen on the tree.
Uses
Because the pulp of the cherimoya is the
only edible portion, the peel and seedmust be removed before eating.  Unripefruits can be ripened at room tempera-ture.  Ripe fruits tend to ferment quicklyThe cherimoya is a large compound fruit, about 4 to 8 inches long and weighing
up to 6 pounds, with a conical or heart shape.  Its relatively thin skin may besmooth with fingerprint-like markings or covered with scale-like overlapping lobes. The fruit can be green or bronze, turning almost black as it ripens.The fragrant, juicy white flesh is strewn with black, almond-shaped seeds, has the texture of firm custard, and has a flavor resembling a mixture of pineapple, papaya, and banana.170 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Cherries are categorized as “sweet” or
“sour” according to their flavor.  Bing andLambert are popular dark-red, sweetcherries.  Rainier and Royal Ann are sweetvarieties that are golden with a slighttouch of red.  Sour cherries are smaller,softer, and more globular, and the best-
selling varieties are Early Richmond,Montmorency, and Morello.
Origin & botanical facts
Named after the T urkish town of Cesarus
where they were first cultivated, cherriesare believed to have originated in north-eastern Asia.  They were mentioned byTheophratus, a Greek philosopher andnaturalist, in the History of Plants , written
in 400 
B.C.  Currently, the United States
produces about 90,000 tons of cherriesannually, with Washington, Oregon,Idaho, and Utah producing 70 percentof the nation’s crop.  Worldwide, Europeis the leading producer.
Cherries are related to other deciduousSweet cherries are usually eaten fresh.
They can be used to top ice cream,yogurt, or pancakes and waffles, or theycan be tossed into a fruit salad.  Pittedsour cherries are used as a pie filling ormade into delicious compotes and jams.Candied cherries are an important ingre-dient in baked items such as fruitcake andBlack Forest cake. Dried cherries are alsoavailable for snacks or to be added todesserts or baked goods.
Nutrient composition
Sour cherries are higher in vitamin C and
vitamin A (carotene) than the sweet varieties.They also contain terpenes, phytochemicals
that may help prevent cancer.  (See theAppendix, page 434, for the nutrient con-tent of sour cherries.)
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 52
Water (%) 81
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 12
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 11
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 162
Magnesium 8
Phosphorus 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 15 RE
Vitamin C 5
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup sweet cherries 
(73 g)Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Prunus avium
Common name cherry, sweet cherry
♥Sour cherries are a good source 
of  vitamin C and vitamin A(carotene)
♥Contain terpenes, phytochemicalsthat may help prevent cancer
Cherry fruits are round with a depression at the stem.  
They are a fourth to an inch in diameter and have a smooth, thin skin that adheres to the fleshy pulp.  The color of the skin, as well as the pulp, can range from yellow to red to near black, depending on the variety.  Each fruit has a hard seed at its center.
flowering fruit trees such as the peach.
Until recently, cherry trees were difficultto grow in a home garden because of theirlarge spread and height: a cherry tree canreach 40 feet in height.  This problemhas been eliminated by the developmentof new self-fertilizing hybrids that reachno more than 6 to 8 feet in height.Cherry trees provide a spectacular displayof white or pink blossoms in spring, andsome varieties are grown purely for theirornamental value.
Domestically grown cherries are avail-
able only from late May through earlyAugust.  After August, cherries thatappear in the market often have been keptin cold storage.  In addition, small quan-tities are imported from Chile and NewZealand during the off-season.
Uses
When selecting cherries, choose those
that are firm, bright, and shiny.  Soft orshriveled fruits with darkened stems area sign of old age or poor storage condi-tions.  After purchase, cherries should becovered and refrigerated if not usedimmediately, because  they tend to absorbodors.  Fresh cherries can be stored in therefrigerator for up to 1 week or  frozen forup to 1 year.CherryFruits 171
aged coconut in recipes.  Grated fresh
coconut can be refrigerated tightly sealed
up to 4 days or frozen up to 6 months.
Coconut milk and cream are made byheating water and shredded fresh or des-iccated coconut.  Both coconut milk and
cream are used in cooking and in prepar-
ing drinks.  Dried coconut meat, calledcopra, is pressed to extract coconut oil.  
Nutrient composition
Coconut meat provides some fiber but is
high in fat, a substantial amount of whichis saturated fat. Coconut oil has thedubious distinction of being one of  themost highly saturated of all plant-basedoils and is best consumed in limitedamounts.
Varieties
There are several types of coconut palm,
varying from genetically engineered dwarfvarieties to the familiar tall varieties, whichattain heights of 80 to 100 feet.
Origin & botanical facts
The coconut palm is found throughout
the tropics, although experts believe it isa native of the West Pacific and IndianOcean islands.  It is cultivated in the hot,wet lowlands of South and CentralAmerica, India, and Hawaii and through-out the Pacific Islands.  Because this palmtolerates brackish soils and salt spray, itis typically found along tropical, sandyshorelines.  In the United States, thecoconut palm is found in Hawaii, thesouthern tip of Florida, Puerto Rico, andthe Virgin Islands. 
The coconut palm is tall and slender,
with a cluster of leaves at the top of aslightly curved trunk.  The tree has aswollen base and a strong, flexible, ringedtrunk.  The yellowish green, pinnate,compound leaves that form the crown
are 15 to 17 feet in length, made up oflanceolate leaflets that can reach lengthsof 3 feet.  The tree typically begins to bearNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 80
Water (%) 47
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 8
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 80
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 25
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 0Coconut
Family Arecaceae or Palmaceae
Scientific name Cocos nucifera
Common name coconut
♥High in saturated fat
fruit when it is about 7 years old.  The
fruits are produced in clusters near thebase of the leaf fronds at the rate of about50 per year.  Thus, during its lifetime of70 to 100 years, the coconut palmproduces thousands of fruits.  Freshcoconuts are available year-round, withthe peak season from October throughDecember.  Coconuts that are availablefor sale in the United States almost alwayshave the two outer layers removed.  Uponripening, the flesh of the coconut trans-forms from a translucent yellow gel to afirm, white meat.
Uses
When selecting coconuts, choose those
that are free from cracks and heavy fortheir size and sound full of liquid whenshaken.  The “eyes” should be dry andclean.  Unopened coconuts can be storedat room temperature up to 6 months.Thecoconut is opened by piercing two of theeyes.  The thin, slightly sweet coconutwater inside the nut can be mixed withlemon or lime juice and used as abeverage.  Chunks of ripe coconut meatcan be grated or chopped and eatendirectly or substituted for dried, pack-The coconut is the fruit of the coconut palm.  Roughly oval, the fruit is up to 15
inches long and 12 inches wide.  Each coconut has several layers: a smooth outercovering; a fibrous husk; a hard, brittle, dark-brown, hairy shell with threeindented “eyes” at one end; a thin brown skin; the edible fleshy white coconut meat inside this skin; and the clear coconut “milk” at the center.  The unripe coconut is usually green, although some varieties have a yellowish covering.
SERVING
SIZE:1 piece, raw 
(1 1/4 x 1 in.) (23 g)172 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Fresh dates are classified as “soft,” “semi-
soft,” and “dry,” depending on their mois-ture content.  The most common type is“semisoft,” a well-known example  ofwhich is the large, flavorful Medjool fromMorocco.  Other “semisoft” varieties arethe firm-fleshed, amber Deglet Noor andthe small, golden Zahidi.  The Barhi,Khadrawy, and Halawy are “soft” dates.“Dry” varieties contain relatively littlemoisture when ripe.  Thus, the term “dry”does not mean “dehydrated” or “dried.”
Origin & botanical facts
Dates originated somewhere in the desert
area that stretches from India to NorthAfrica.  Cultivation seems to have begunat least 8,000 years ago, when settlementbegan along the Jordan River and aroundthe Dead Sea.  Archaeological evidence
indicates that cultivation of dates was wellestablished by 3000 
B.C.in what is now
Iraq.
The northern coastal region of the
Middle East was originally calledPhoenicia, a name that may be the sourceof the early Greek term for the date,phoenix.  The word “date” appears tohave been derived from the Greekdaktylos , which is related to part of theNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 114
Water (%) 22
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 31
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 13
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 271
Magnesium 15
Phosphorus 17
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 2 RE
Vitamin C 0
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 5 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
5, dried (42 g)Date
Family Palmaceae
Scientific name Phoenix dactylifera L.
Common name date
♥A good source of fiberbecause fresh dates are rather wrinkled,
and both types are usually packaged incellophane.  Covered and refrigerated,both types should keep indefinitely.
Fresh dates can be eaten as a snack or
chopped and added to dry and cookedcereal, yogurt, puddings, breads andmuffins, cookies, and ice cream.  MiddleEastern recipes include dates in stews,poultry stuffing, and pilafs.
Nutrient composition
One serving of dates provides minimal
amounts of vitamins and minerals, butdates are a good source of dietary fiber.fruit’s scientific name, dactylifera .
Dactylifera means “the finger-bearer,” an
apt description of the date palm, with itsbrown bunches of finger-like fruit.  
Dates were first brought to the
Americas in the 18th century by Spanishmissionaries, who planted date palmsaround their missions.  Some of theseoriginal trees still stand in southernCalifornia and in Mexico.  Today,although the Middle East supplies three-fourths of the world’s dates, much of theAmerican demand is supplied by datesfrom California and Arizona.  Seventy-five percent of California dates are of theDeglet Noor variety, but some Medjoolsare grown along the Colorado River.
The date palm grows to about 100
feet in height.  The tree itself can thrivein almost any warm climate, but fruitproduction requires a hot, dry environ-ment with an underground water supply.Humidity prevents the fruit from setting,and temperatures below 70° Fahrenheitprevent ripening.
Uses
The dates most often available in stores
are either fresh or partly dehydrated.These may be difficult to distinguish,The date is a small, oblong fruit of the date palm tree that grows in clusters of as
many as 200.  The mature date is approximately 2 inches long and 1 inch wideand has a somewhat wrinkled skin and a single, central pit.  Dates can be yellow to orange, red, green, or brown.Fruits 173
Varieties
In Malaysia, more than 100 durian vari-
eties have been developed, and they areidentified only by number.  The bettervarieties of fruit have a thick, well-flavoredpulp with a creamy custard-like consis-tency.  The pulp varies from deep cream,yellow, and orange to a violet-swirledyellow.  This swirled variety is noted forits flavor, which alternates between bitterand sweet.
Origin & botanical facts
Commercial production of durian is con-
centrated in its native Thailand, Malaysia,and Indonesia.  Thailand is by far the largestproducer of durian, followed by Malaysiaand Indonesia.  However, Malaysia is thelargest exporter of fresh durian.  Othersoutheast Asian countries such as thePhilippines also produce durian but ona smaller scale and mostly for domesticmarkets.  Fresh durians are usually shippedto nearby countries such as Singapore,Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 89
Water (%) 65
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 3
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 4
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 265
Magnesium 18
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE
Vitamin C 12
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1/4 cup, raw (61 g)Durian
Family Bombacaceae
Scientific name Durio zibethinus Murr
Common name durian
♥A good source of vitamin Csticky is the best indication that the fruit
is ripe.  Durian is generally eaten fresh ormade into desserts such as milk shakes, icecream, or custard.  In Indonesia, fermenteddurian is wrapped in palm leaves andserved as a popular side dish called“tempoya.”  The fruit also is mixed withriceand sugar to make a dessert called
“lempog.” In addition, durian seeds can
be roasted or cut into slices and fried inspiced coconut oil.  They are then eatenwith rice or mixed with sugar to make asweet.
Nutrient composition
The durian is a good source of vitamin C.Hong Kong, and Taiwan.  Nearly all of
the small quantity of frozen durianexported from Thailand is shipped to theUnited States, Australia, and Canada.
The durian tree can reach a height of
about 125 feet and may bear fruit twicea year.  The crop is heaviest between Juneand August.  The fruits take 3 months todevelop.  The yield increases with the ageof the tree, beginning with 10 to 40 fruitsduring the 1st year, increasing to about100 fruits during the 6th year, andcommonly reaching a yield of 200 afterthe 10th year.  Ripe fruits are usuallyallowed to fall and are collected daily.The fruits also may be harvested directlyfrom the tree, a common practice inThailand.  Harvested fruits taste betterand have a shelf life of 9 to 11 days,compared with 2 to 5 days when the fruitis allowed to drop from the tree.
Uses
Durian can be stored at room tempera-
ture 2 to 5 days.  The ripeness of durianmay be indicated by the emission of astrong, but not sour, smell when a knifeis inserted into the center of the fruit;however, an inserted knife that comes outThe durian varies from olive-green to yellow to brown and can be pendulous,
round, or oblong.  The fruit ranges in length from 20 to 35 cm and can weigh upto 10 pounds.  The semihard shell of the durian is covered with short, pointedspines that make the fruit difficult to open.  The hard shell protects the fruit frombruises and damage when the ripe fruit drops from the tree.  The fruit itself is a capsule that divides into five lobes, or segments, when ripe.  Each segment contains one or more brown seeds that are covered with a thick, creamy, strong-smelling pulp, the edible part of the fruit.174 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 74
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) –
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 26
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 233
Magnesium 14
Phosphorus 30
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 30
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 57 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
3, raw (150 g)FEIJOA
Family  Myrtaceae
Scientific name Feijoa sellowiana O.
Common name feijoa, pineapple guava
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of folateUses
Feijoas should be firm and unblemished.
They should be eaten within 3 to 4 daysof purchase or refrigerated up to a month.Feijoas should be peeled before eating,because the skin is bitter.  Immersing thepeeled fruit in water and fresh lemon juicekeeps it from turning brown.  Feijoasusually are eaten fresh as desserts or usedas garnishes or in fruit salads.  They canbe stewed or baked in puddings, pies, andpastries or made into jellies and preserves.
Nutrient composition
Feijoas are high in vitamin C and are a
good source of folate.
tree or pruned to form a dense hedge or
screen.  Unpruned, it can reach 15 to 20feet in height and in width.  Its thick,oval leaves are green on top and silveryunderneath, a feature that makes it anattractive plant when ruffled by a breeze.The flowers of the feijoa, formed singly orin clusters, have white petals with bristly,scarlet stamens.
Feijoas thrive in a variety of soils, but
they do best in well-drained, non-salinesoil.  They prefer cool winters and mod-erate summers; the fruit is less flavorfulin warm climates. Propagation is mostsuccessful by cuttings and by layering andgrafting.  T rees propagated from seed donot produce fruit until they are 3 to 5years old, and the fruit may be inferiorin quality.
Feijoas mature 4 1/2 to 7 months after
the flowers bloom, depending on the cli-mate.  Fruit that is picked when it is stillfirm will ripen at room temperature, butfeijoas are most flavorful when allowedto remain on the tree until they are readyto drop.  Harvesting is accomplished byshaking the tree and letting the fruit fallonto a tarpaulin to prevent bruising.The feijoa, also called pineapple guava, is an oval fruit that grows up to about 
3 inches in length.  It has a thin, waxy, blue-green to olive skin that at times has a red or orange blush. The flesh is creamy white and somewhat granular andsurrounds a translucent, jelly-like center that encloses 20 to 40 tiny, edible, oblongseeds.  Feijoa has a fairly complex flavor thatis often compared to that of pineapple but also contains hints of strawberry, guava, quince, and mint.
Varieties
Most varieties of feijoa cultivated today
originated in Australia, New Zealand, orCalifornia. The Choiceana from Australiais a small to medium-sized fruit with asmooth skin and pleasant flavor. Selectedfrom Choiceana seedlings, the Mammothis a larger variety from New Zealand withthick, wrinkled skin.  The most widelycultivated variety in California is theCoolidge, a small to medium-sized fruitwith wrinkled skin and mild flavor.
Origin & botanical facts
The feijoa is native to South America,
specifically the cool subtropical and trop-ical highland areas of southern Brazil,Uruguay, Paraguay, and Argentina. Theplant was introduced to California in the1890s, and even though the feijoa is notin great demand commercially, 1,000acres in California are dedicated to itscultivation.  Some fruit is imported to theUnited States from New Zealand.
The feijoa is a slow-growing evergreen
shrub that can be retrained to be a smallFruits 175
Varieties
Hundreds of varieties of figs exist
throughout the world.  Although theyvary in shape and color, all have the samefleshy, gelatinous pulp.  The most well-known varieties are the greenish Adriaticfig, which has a white flesh; the Smyrna,a familiar pear-shaped T urkish purple-brown fig; the Kadota; the Celeste; theMagnolia or Brunswick; and the Mission.Most domestic figs are grown in theFresno area of California.  These varietiesinclude the Calimyrna (a Californianversion of the Smyrna), the Mission, theAdriatic, and the Kadota.
Origin & botanical facts
The fig is believed to be as old as human-
kind.  In the Bible, fig leaves served as thefirst clothing for Adam and Eve in theGarden of Eden.  Fig remnants have beenfound in excavation sites dating to 5000
B.C., and among the ancient Greeks,
Romans, Egyptians, and Muslims, the fighad a symbolic and spiritual significance.Fig
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 111
Water (%) 79
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 29
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 53
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 348
Magnesium 26
Phosphorus 21
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 21 RE
Vitamin C 3
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 9 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
3 medium, raw (150 g)able year-round, but the peak season for
fresh figs lasts from June to October.
Uses
Fresh figs should be plump and fairly soft
but free of bruises. Figs are quite perish-able and should be refrigerated no morethan 7 days.  Delicious as a snack, figsalso can be diced and added to salads andother dishes or used for pie fillings andpreserves.  Figs also add sweetness andmoisture to baked goods.
Nutrient composition
Raw figs are a good source of vitamin B6and
are high in dietary fiber.  (See the Appendix,page 434, for the nutrient content of driedfigs.)The fig is a pleasantly sweet fruit that consists of a soft flesh pursed around a large
number of tiny edible seeds.  It can be eaten whole, peeled or unpeeled.  Undercertain circumstances, the natural sugars crystallize on the surface of the fruit,making the fruit sweeter.  Figs are small, about 1 to 3 inches long.The shape varies from plain round or oval to gourd shaped, and the color ranges from brown to purple-black to almost white.
The fig’s origin has been traced to west-
ern Asia and to Egypt, Greece, and Italy.Today, figs are found in all warm, dryclimates, especially sunny areas of theMediterranean.  Rainy seasons are notfavorable to the fruit’s development.  Excessmoisture can split the skin and acceleratedecay.  Figs were brought to the Americasby Spanish conquistadors in the 16thcentury.  The fruits arrived in Californiathrough Catholic missions and were plant-ed in areas around San Diego and Sonoma.
The fig is a broad, irregular, picturesque
deciduous tree that generally reaches 10to 30 feet in height but can sometimesreach 50 feet.  The leaves are large, bright-green, and hairy on both sides.  Fig treesare valued for their shade.
Fig tree blossoms do not appear on
the branches.  Instead, the flower growsinside the fruit, which is actually a flowerthat is inverted into itself.  The seeds areactually underdeveloped, unfertilizedovaries of the real fruit which impart theresin-like flavor associated with figs.Because figs will not continue to ripenafter harvest, they must be allowed toripen fully on the tree.  Because fresh figsare delicate, highly perishable, and verysensitive to cold, 90 percent of all har-vested figs are dried.  Dried figs are avail-Family  Moraceae
Scientific name Ficus carica
Common name fig
♥Raw figs are a good source of vitamin
B6and are high in fiber
♥Dried figs are high in fiber176 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The varieties of grapefruit are categorized
by the colors of their flesh, which rangefrom white to bright pink or red.  Thewhite grapefruit has pale-yellow skin andflesh, whereas the pink or red grapefruithas rose to bright-pink flesh and pink-tinged yellow skin.  The flavor varies froma biting, bitter tang to honey-sweet; thewhite is the more bitter.  The mostcommon variety of white grapefruit is theWhite Marsh, and the most popular pig-mented varieties are the Flame, the RioRed, and the Star Ruby.  Some less familiarvarieties are the Duncan and the Golden.
Origin & Botanical facts
Citrus fruits have been part of the human
diet since the Stone Age, but the origins ofthe grapefruit are a mystery.  Some evidencesuggests that grapefruit may have origi-nated in China 4,000 years ago and itsseeds spread worldwide by insects.  Othersbelieve the grapefruit may be a descen-dent of the pomelo, dropped on JamaicanNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 41
Water (%) 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 10
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 15
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 178
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 15 RE
Vitamin C 44
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 13 μg
Vitamin E 0 SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 medium, raw (128 g)Grapefruit
Family  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus paradisi
Common name grapefruit
♥High in vitamin C
♥Contains antioxidants that 
may help prevent certain forms of cancer
Grapefruit sections can be added to fruit
or vegetable salads, paired with avocado,or served as a complement to seafoodsalad. Grapefruit skin can be candied orused to make marmalade.
Nutrient composition
Grapefruit is high in vitamin C.  The pink
and red varieties contain vitamin A (beta-carotene) and lycopene, an antioxidant thatmay help prevent cancer. 
Grapefruit contains a chemical that can
alter intestinal absorption of some med-ications and lead to higher than normalblood levels of some drugs and potentialproblems.  Individuals who take prescrip-tion medications and who frequently drinkgrapefruit juice or eat grapefruit shouldnotify their health care practitioners.land by seagulls traveling from the island
of Barbados, where the fruit was broughtby a captain who worked for one of the EastIndian trading companies.  Disagreementeven exists about the origins of the name“grapefruit.”  One theory holds that itwas so named because the growing fruitsresemble a cluster of grapes.
The grapefruit tree is a large evergreen
with dark, glossy, green leaves.  The grape-fruit prefers warmer climates and there-fore thrives best in the southern states.Today, Florida, Texas, and Californiasupply 90 percent of the world’s grape-fruit.  Because the fruits ripen at differenttimes in different areas, the fruits areavailable year-round.
Uses
Fresh grapefruit may be left at room tem-
perature in a well-ventilated area for up toa week or kept up to 6 to 8 weeks in thecrisper of a refrigerator.  Exposure toethylene gas from other ripening fruitsmay accelerate decay.
Fresh grapefruit halves are refreshing
at breakfast, for a snack, or as a first coursebefore dinner. Grapefruit that has beenlightly sprinkled with sugar and broiledmakes a pleasant, old-fashioned dessert.The grapefruit, one of the largest members of the citrus family, measures up to 5 or
6 inches in diameter.  It is a plump, imperfectly round fruit with thick, glossy skin that varies from yellow to pink-tinged yellow. Like all citrus fruits, the flesh of the grapefruit is segmented and each segment is tightly wrapped in a semiopaque, thin, fibrous membrane, 
the albedo.  The segments are arranged spherically around a solid axis. The juicy flesh has a refreshing tart taste.Fruits 177
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 57
Water (%) 71
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 14
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 9
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 148
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 6 RE
Vitamin C 9
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 0Grapes
seedless are served fresh or frozen.
Concord grapes are made into preserves,
jams, jellies, and juices.  Others are driedinto raisins and currants or crushed tomake juice and wine, depending on vari-ety.  Red and purple wine or grape juice ismade by including the skins in the pro-cessing of the grapes, whereas the skinsare removed to make white wine and juice.
Nutrient composition
Some varieties of grapes are good to
excellent sources of vitamin C, whereasothers are not.  Moderate consumption ofred wine, which contains the phytochem-ical resveratrol, along with a heart-healthydiet may contribute to the prevention ofheart disease.  (See the Appendix, page 436,for the nutrient content of raisins.)Today, California produces about 97 per-
cent of all domestic grapes.
Grapes can grow in almost any climate,
but they thrive in temperate regions withaverage annual temperatures above 50°Fahrenheit.  Although modern farmmachinery is used, some aspects of grapegrowing, or “viticulture,” are still doneby hand.  Grapevines generally are prop-agated from grafts and cuttings ratherthan from seed.  Five years is required fora young grapevine to reach optimal pro-duction.  The woody vines must be stakedto support the weight of the fruit.  Likemost fruit, grapes develop sugar as theyripen, but they do not get sweeter afterthey are picked.  Domestic grapes areavailable from May through January orMarch, and imported grapes fill the gapduring late winter and spring.
Uses
When selecting grapes, it is best to choose
those with a powdery-looking coatingcalled “bloom.”  Green grapes should havea slight gold cast, and dark grapes shouldbe uniform in color.  Grapes can be refrig-erated in a perforated plastic bag for upto 3 days. Table grapes such as ThompsonMore grapes are grown than any other fruit in the world.  These popular berries
are produced in thousands of varieties, growing in clusters on climbing vines andlow shrubs throughout most of the world’s temperate zones.  Grapes have juicy, sweet flesh andsmooth skins that range from paleyellowish green to purplish black. 
SERVING
SIZE:European type, raw, 1/2 cup (18 fruits)(80 g)Family  Vitaceae
Scientific name Vitis species
Common name grapes
♥Contain phytochemicals 
that may reduce heart disease
Varieties
The thousands of varieties of grapes can be
divided into two basic types:  European(Vitis vinifera ) and American ( Vitis labrusca ).
Both are grown in the United States, butthe European varieties are the more pop ular.
Most American grapes (such as the Concord)are slip-skin types, meaning that the skinsslide off easily, whereas the skins of mostEuropean grapes cling tightly to the flesh.Grapes are classified by whether they haveseeds or are seedless.  They also can be clas-sified by their uses, such as for the makingof wine (such as cabernet), for commercialfoods (such as concord grapes for jelly), orfor eating at the table (such as Thompson).
Origin & botanical facts
Grapes are among the oldest cultivated
fruits. F ossil evidence indicates that grapes
were consumed, and possibly cultivated,as early as 8,000 years ago near what isnow northern Iran, between the Blackand Caspian seas.
In precolonial America, native grapes
(Vitis girdiana ) grew wild along the banks
of rivers and streams, but these grapes werevery sour.  Spanish missionaries travelingnorth from Mexico in the late 18th centuryare believed to have brought the cultiva-tion of European grapes to California.178 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Guavas differ greatly in flavor, and the
pulp can vary from white to pink, yellow,or red depending on the variety. The vari-eties found most often in U.S. marketsare the common, lemon, and strawberryguava. The juice varieties usually havedeep-pink flesh and hard, inedible seeds.
Origin & botanical facts
The guava is believed to have originated
in an area extending from southernMexico through parts of Central America.Today, the guava is grown throughoutthe tropics and subtropics and is animportant fruit in many parts of theworld, including Mexico, India, andsoutheast Asia.  Domestically, guavas aregrown in Hawaii, Florida, and parts ofsouthern coastal California. 
The evergreen guava tree grows to a
height of about 35 feet with spreadingbranches. The leaves are long, leathery,and aromatic when crushed.  The fruit,technically a berry, generally matures 90Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 46
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 11
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 18
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 256
Magnesium 9
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 71 RE
Vitamin C 165
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 13 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
1, without seed (90 g)Guava
Family  Myrtaceae
Scientific name Psidium guajava
Common name guava, guyava
♥High in vitamin C and fiber
♥A good source of vitamin A
(beta-carotene)
Guavas are usually round or oval and approximately 2 to 4 inches in diameter.
Embedded in the center of the pulp are numerous (100 to 500) tiny, peach-colored, round edible seeds.  The seeds encircle a pulp that is softer, sweeter, and less granular than the outer part of the fruit.  The thin skin, green and tart when unripe, can take on shades of yellow, white, pink, or light green when ripe and edible.
to 120 days after flowering.  Although it
can survive outside subtropical areas, theguava prefers warm, frost-free climates.Fruits grown in cooler climates tend tobe inferior in flavor.
Uses
The softest, yellowest guavas, free of
blemishes, are best for purchase.  Theycan be ripened at room temperature andrefrigerated in a perforated plastic bag.Mature but green guavas can be keptrefrigerated for several weeks and willripen at room temperature in 1 to 5 days.The ripening process can be acceleratedby placing the fruit in a paper bag.  Ripefruit that has changed color should beeaten within a couple of days because itwill bruise easily and rot quickly.  Thejust-ripened fruit is crisper in taste thanthe fully ripe fruit.  Guavas can be frozenfor extended periods of storage.  The fleshof the guava can be eaten with a spoonor peeled and sliced. Puréed guava is usedas a marinade or a dessert sauce or tomake smoothies or sorbet.  Commercially,guava is often made into juice.Nutrient composition
Guavas are a good source of vitamin A
(beta-carotene) and are rich in vitaminC, although much of the vitamin C is inthe rind of the fruit.  Guavas are also highin dietary fiber and contain lycopene, acarotenoid with antioxidant properties.Fruits 179
Varieties
A relative of breadfruit, jackfruit comes
in two main varieties.  One variety has afibrous, soft, sweet flesh with a texturesimilar to that of raw oysters.  The other,more commercially important, variety iscrisp and almost crunchy with a flavorthat is not quite as sweet.  This lattervariety is more palatable to western tastes.
Origin & Botanical Facts
Believed to be indigenous to the rain
forests of India, the jackfruit has spread toother parts of India, southeast Asia, theEast Indies, the Philippines, central andeastern Africa, Brazil, and Suriname.Although adapted to humid tropical andnear-tropical climates where it can reachthe size of a large eastern oak, the maturejackfruit can withstand bouts of frost,unlike its cousin, the breadfruit. 
Jackfruits mature 3 to 8 months afterNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 78
Water (%) 121
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 20
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 28
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 250
Magnesium 31
Phosphorus 30
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 25 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 12 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup (83 g)Jackfruit
flowering, as indicated by a change in
fruit color from light green to yellow-brown. After ripening, the fruits turnbrown and spoil very quickly.
Uses
Throughout Asia, unripe jackfruit is often
boiled, fried, or roasted.  The ripe fruit,which emits a pleasant smell and has asweet taste, is usually eaten fresh as adessert, or fermented and distilled to pro-duce a liquor.  Jackfruit also is preservedby drying or canning.  Jackfruit seeds areroasted or boiled and eaten like chestnutsor, in India, used in curries.
Nutrient composition
The jackfruit is a good source of vitamin
C.  One serving also provides a moderateamount of vitamin A (beta-carotene).
Family  Moraceae
Scientific name Artocarpus heterophyllus
Common name jackfruit, jakfruit
♥A good source of vitamin C
♥Provides a moderate amount 
of vitamin A (beta-carotene)The jackfruit is the largest tree-borne fruit in the world, reaching 80 pounds in
weight, up to 36 inches in length, and 20 inches in diameter.  This oval fruit has apale-green to dark-yellow rind when ripe and is covered with short, sharp, hexago-nal, fleshy spines.  The interior consists of large, soft, yellow bulbs that taste like banana.  The flesh encloses hundreds of smooth, oval, light-brown seeds.180 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Of the more than 400 jujube types, Li and
Lang are the two most commonly avail-able.  Li, an early ripening variety, yieldsround fruits that are best picked and eatenwhile still green. Lang produces pear-shaped fruits that are most flavorful whenleft to brown and dry on the tree.
Origin & botanical facts
The jujube is native to China, where it
has been cultivated for more than 4,000years.  Jujube plants were brought toEurope around the year 1 
A.D.and sub-
sequently became widely cultivatedthroughout the Mediterranean region.From Europe, the jujube was introducedto the United States in the early 19th cen-tury.  Although most of the jujube supplyin the United States is imported fromChina, some is grown on the West Coast.
Growing up to 40 feet in height, the
deciduous jujube tree is graceful andornamental with small, shiny green leavesNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 79
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) –
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 20
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 21
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 250
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 4 RE
Vitamin C 69
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
Jujube, fresh (100 g)Jujube
Family Rhamnaceae
Scientific name Ziziphus jujuba
Common name jujube, Chinese jujube,
Chinese date, red date, Tsao
♥Fresh jujube is high in vitamin CNutrient composition
One serving of raw jujube is high in vit-
amin C.  (See the Appendix, page 436,for the nutrient content of dried jujube.)
and drooping, zigzag-shaped, thorned
branches.  The tiny, somewhat fragrant,flowers are produced in large numbers,but only a small number set fruit.Although capable of withstanding a widerange of tropical and subtropical climates,the tree nevertheless requires summer sunand heat to maximize fruit production.
Uses
Jujubes can be used fresh, dried, canned,
or preserved.  Fresh jujubes should befirm and free of blemishes.  Ripe jujubesshould be refrigerated in a perforatedplastic bag.  Dried jujubes should beheavy and wrinkled and are usually soakedbefore being used.  They can be candied;added to cakes and other desserts, soups,stews, or stuffings; or substituted in recipesthat call for raisins or dates.  Poachedjujubes can be added to fruit compotes. 
A candy called “jujube,” which is
made from jujube paste, is available inthe United States.  Jujubes also can bepressed to make juice or fermented tomake an alcoholic beverage.
The jujube may be round or oblong and about the size of an olive or a date,depending on the variety.  As the fruit ripens, maroon spots begin to appear onthe thin, shiny, green skin until the entire fruit is reddish brown or almost black.
Shortly after turning color, the crunchy fruit begins to soften and wrinkle.  The yellow or green 
flesh surrounds a single hard stone that contains two seeds.Although not particularly juicy, the flesh is sweet, especially when the fruit has changed color.Fruits 181
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 56
Water (%) 42
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 14
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 24
Iron 0
Zinc –
Manganese –
Potassium 302
Magnesium 27
Phosphorus 36
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 16 RE
Vitamin C 89
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 35 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Kiwi
Family  Actinidiaceae
Scientific name Actinidia deliciosa
Common name kiwi, kiwi fruit, 
Chinese gooseberry
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of fiber
vines with large, thick leaves.  Strong trel-
lising is necessary to support the size andweight of the plant when it is heavy withfruit.  The plants are dioecious, meaningthat male and female flowers develop ondifferent plants.  Thus, both male andfemale plants are needed for pollination.The male plant does not produce fruitbut is sometimes used as a landscape dec-oration because of its attractive flowers.
Kiwi is propagated by seeds, cuttings,
and grafting.  Plants grown from cuttingsor grafting take 1 year to produce fruit,whereas vines propagated from seeds needmore time to mature and will producefruit only after 2 to 3 years.  The plantsrequire a long, frost-free growing season ofabout 220 days for fruit ripening.  InCalifornia, the vines leaf in mid to lateMarch and flower in May.  Although thefruit may achieve full size in midsummer,it is not sufficiently ripe for picking untillate October or early November.  If tem-peratures fall below 29° Fahrenheitbetween leafing and harvesting, the leaves,blossoms, and fruit will be damaged.
Uses
When selecting ripe kiwi, look for those
that are plump and slightly soft.  UnripeThe kiwi is a small fruit (approximately the size and shape of a large hen’s egg)
with a brown, hairy skin.  Its flesh is bright green, with tiny, black, edible seedsarranged in circular rows.  The fruit has a mild, sweet flavor, which has variouslybeen described as resembling citrus, melon, and strawberry, with a hint of pineapple.kiwi can be ripened in 2 to 3 days by plac-
ing in a paper bag with a ripe apple andleaving at room temperature.  Kiwi canbe stored in the refrigerator in a plasticbag for up to 2 weeks.  Kiwi can be peeledand eaten fresh, cooked, frozen, or canned.Its juice can be consumed alone or in com-bination with other beverages.  Kiwi alsocontains enzymes that are similar topapain, an enzyme in the juice of unripepapayas which digests protein and can beused as a meat tenderizer.
Nutrient composition
Kiwi is high in vitamin C and a good
source of fiber.Varieties
The most common variety of kiwi grown
commercially is the Hayward, a domesticvariety with little cold tolerance butcomparatively large size, full flavor, andexcellent keeping quality.
The Actinidia arguta andActinidia
kolomikta varieties are more winter hardy
than Actinidia deliciosa .  However, despite
sweeter taste and superior hardiness, thesevarieties have not been commerciallysuccessful because of smaller size, softerconsistency, and shorter shelf life.
Origin & botanical facts
Kiwi originated in China’s Yangtze River
Valley, where its vines grow wild on treesand bushes (thus its original English name
of  “Chinese gooseberry”).  Introduced toNew Zealand in the early 1900s, the fruitgot its common name from its resem-blance to the small, brown, fuzzy-look-ing native bird.  The fruit was introducedto the United Kingdom, Europe, and theUnited States about the same time.Widespread planting began in the 1960sin California, where kiwi is now a majorcommercial crop.   Kiwi also is supplied
by China and South Africa.
Kiwi grows on woody, deciduousSERVING
SIZE:
1 large (91 g)182 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The two major varieties of kumquat are
the oval Fortunella margarita and the
round Fortunella japonica .  A common
oval type is the Negami kumquat, a hardyvariety grown in the United States.
Origin & botanical facts
Kumquats are native to China, but they
also have been cultivated in Japan, south-east Asia, and Java for centuries.  Todaythe kumquat tree remains a sacred symbolof the Chinese lunar New Year.  The fruitsignifies gold and good fortune.  Thecultivation of kumquats has spread toAustralia, Israel, Spain, and the Americas.In the United States, California andFlorida are the leading producers.
Kumquats are resistant to cold but
grow best in mild, temperate climates.The tree is a small, shrub-like evergreen,usually from 6 to 12 feet high, thornless,with glossy, dark-green leaves and whiteflowers that resemble orange blossoms.The tree also can thrive in a pot, but it mayNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 48
Water (%) 82
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 12
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 33
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 148
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 23 RE
Vitamin C 28
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 12 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
4, raw (76 g)KUMQUAT
Family  Rutaceae
Scientific name Fortunella japonica, 
Fortunella margarita
Common name kumquat
♥High in vitamin C and dietary fiberKumquats also can be pickled and made
into relish.  Kumquat trees often are usedas ornamental plants.
Nutrient composition
Kumquats are high in vitamin C and
dietary fiber.be sensitive to overwatering. The fruit
ripens in the fall.  One tree can produceas much as 40 pounds of fruit annually. 
Although kumquats are not classified
botanically as citrus fruits, they are closelyrelated and can hybridize well with citrus.Recently, they have been crossed withlimes and oranges to create limequats andorangequats.  The calamondin, anothersmall, orange-like fruit used in Philippinecooking, may be a cross between thekumquat and the mandarin orange.
Uses
Kumquats that are plump, not shriveled,
should be chosen.  Kumquats are deli-cious eaten fresh and whole.  Because theskin is also edible, the fruit should bewashed before eating.  The bright-orangefruits, fresh, candied, or preserved insyrup or brandy, also make an attractivedecoration for cakes and other desserts.Kumquats soaked for several months ina mixture of vodka and honey are usedas a garnish or snack. Cooked kumquatscan be made into jams, preserves, andmarmalades; used as garnishes for greensalads and main courses; or substitutedfor oranges in sauces for meat and poultry.
The kumquat is a small fruit, about 1 to 2 inches in diameter, round or oval, thatresembles a small orange in flavor and appearance.  Its name is derived from theChinese word “kam kwat,” meaninggold orange.  Its thin, bright-orange skin has a sweet, spicy taste, and its slightly dry flesh, which contains numeroussmall white seeds, is quite tart.  The kumquat has a distinctive flavor that is both sweet and sour.Fruits 183
Varieties
Lemons can be acid or sweet, but only
acidic lemons are grown commercially.The two most common varieties of com-mercially grown lemons are the largeEureka, which  has a pitted skin and fewseeds, and the Lisbon, which is smaller andhas a smooth skin and no seeds.  Sweetlemon trees are used almost exclusively byhome gardeners as ornamental plants.
Origin & botanical facts
Lemons originated in southeast Asia,
between south China and India.  Theymay have been grown in the Mediterraneanregion as early as the 1st or 2nd century,
because they appear in Roman artworkof the period.  From there, they werebrought to the rest of Europe about thetime of the Crusades.  ChristopherColumbus brought lemon seeds to theAmericas, and by the 17th century,lemons and other citrus fruits were wellestablished in what is now Florida.Throughout the 1800s, however, Floridalemon groves were repeatedly destroyedby frost.  California lemon cultivationNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 22
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 12
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 66
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 157
Magnesium 13
Phosphorus 16
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE
Vitamin C 83
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Lemon
Family  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus limonia
Common name lemon
♥High in vitamin C and fiber
♥Contains bioflavonoids (antioxidants)
that may help prevent cancerAlthough lemons are too tart and
acidic to eat as fresh fruit, they are amongthe most versatile and widely used fruits.The juice and grated peel are used toflavor a wide variety of foods and bever-ages.  Spread on the surface of cut fruits(such as apples) and vegetables (such aspotatoes), lemon juice prevents brown-ing that results from oxidation.  Frozenlemon juice, but not the processed type(labeled as “reconstituted”), is an accept-able substitute for fresh juice.
Nutrient composition
Lemons are high in vitamin C and fiber
and contain bioflavonoids (antioxidants)that may help prevent cancer.began during the Gold Rush to alleviate
the shortages of fresh fruits and vegeta-bles that led to scurvy, a disease caused byvitamin C deficiency.  Today, Californiais the primary source of lemons in theUnited States, and Arizona ranks second.Other countries with significant com-mercial lemon crops are Italy, Mexico,Spain, Brazil, Argentina, Iran, T urkey,India, and Egypt.
Lemon trees are tropical plants and
can grow only in frost-free regions.  Theycan be standard or dwarf size, and likeother citrus trees, they have large, dark-green, evergreen leaves and produce veryfragrant white flowers.  Although theybloom most abundantly in the spring,they also may flower at other times of theyear, depending on the climate.  Onlyabout 2 percent of the blossoms  producefruit, but that number still can bring alarge harvest.  Lemon and other citrustrees can live and continue to bear fruitfor as long as 100 years.
Uses
When selecting lemons, choose those that
are heavy for their size and bright yellow.Lemons can be kept up to 2 weeks inplastic bags in the refrigerator. The lemon is a small, oval, bright-yellow citrus fruit that bulges at the blossom
end.  The flesh is tart and acidic and is not usually eaten out of hand.  Lemons areavailable year-round, but production is slightly higher inthe spring and summer.
SERVING
SIZE:1, raw without seeds 
(108 g)184 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 20
Water (%) 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 7
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 22
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 68
Magnesium 4
Phosphorus 12
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 19
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 5 μg
Vitamin E 0 Lime
can be tightly wrapped in plastic and
refrigerated up to 5 days.
Lime juice is an  excellent meat ten-
derizer and flavor enhancer, and it is wellknown as an ingredient in the mixeddrink known as the margarita.  Lime alsohas many nonculinary uses, including themanufacture of perfumes, suntan prod-ucts, and cattlefeed (lime seeds are believedby some farmers to keep cattle’s coats shinyand to prevent the appearance of parasitessuch as ticks).
Nutrient composition
Lime juice is high in vitamin C and contains
some antioxidants that promote health.to the Americas by the Spaniards and
cultivated in Mexico, the West Indies,some Central American countries, and theFlorida Keys.  The lime became popularin the West as a preventive and treatmentfor scurvy among British sailors.  For thesame reason, its popularity rose furtherin the United States during the CaliforniaGold Rush of 1849 and the constructionof the transcontinental railroad.  Fourdecades later, lime production ceased aftera damaging freeze in the 1890s but under-went a resurgence after World War I.
The lime tree is small and crooked
with thorny branches.  Like its cousins inthe citrus family, the tree produces smallwhite flowers that later become the fruits.In the United States, lime trees grow bestin the southern states. Southern Florida isthe source of more than 85 percent ofNorth American limes.  Limes are availablethroughout the year, but the supply ismost plentiful from May to October.
Uses
When choosing limes, select those that
are brightly colored and smooth-skinned.Uncut limes can be refrigerated in aplastic bag for up to 10 days.  Cut limesFamily  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus aurantifolia
Common name lime
♥High in vitamin C
♥Contains antioxidants that promote
healthThe lime is a small citrus fruit with thin, smooth, dark-green skin, 
measuring about 1 to 1.5 inches in diameter.  The pulp is pale green and is divided into 10 to 12 segments.  The fruit has an aromatic taste but is too tart for eating out of hand. Its primary use is to flavor other foods.
Varieties
The many varieties of lime are nearly iden-
tical in shape and appearance, but theirdegree of acidity ranges from nearlyneutral to extremely tart.  Among thehigh-acidity varieties are the small Mexicanor Key lime, which has a sweet-tart taste.The Tahitian lime comes in two strains, thePersian and Bears, all of unknown originand nearly seedless.  These limes are growncommercially in California and the coastalareas of Florida. The Rangpur lime is highlyacidic and is somewhat different in appear-ance from the others, with its pale-yellowpeel, orange-red pulp, and green cotyledons.It is very seedy but has ornamental value.The Palestine “sweet ” lime, less acidic than
the others, also grows in south Florida.
Origin & botanical facts
Limes may have originated in Asia, in the
vicinity of India, Burma, and Malaysia.The silhouette of the lime can be observedin 2nd- to 3rd-century Roman art, andlimes appear to have been popular inEurope around the time of the Crusades.Limes probably were brought to the NewWorld along with other citrus species byColumbus.  The Key lime was broughtSERVING
SIZE:1 (2” diameter), 
raw (67 g)Fruits 185
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 19
Water (%) 83
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 0
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 85
Magnesium 3
Phosphorus 7
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A –
Vitamin C 27
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 –
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Varieties
The most popular varieties of longan are
the Blackball, cultivated in China, the EBure, E Dol, and E Haw from Thailand,the Shek Kip from Hong Kong, and theKohala, which was developed in Hawaii.
Origin & botanical facts
The longan is native to southern China,
where it remains a popular fruit.  In 1903,the United States Department of Agricultureintroduced the Chinese varieties of thelongan to Florida, and cultivation wasbrought to Bermuda, Cuba, Puerto Rico,and Hawaii.  Today the longan is cultivatedthroughout southeast Asia, in CentralAmerica, and in the United States, wherethe leading producers are Hawaii andFlorida.
The longan tree is a tropical to sub-
tropical evergreen that can reach heightsof up to 35 feet and widths to 45 feet.Although it prefers warm weather, themature tree can tolerate brief exposure totemperatures slightly below freezing.  Thetree’s large leaves, up to a foot long, createa dense, dark green foliage.  The treeblooms once a year with small, greenishyellow flowers.  The fruit develops inlarge, drooping clusters over about a 4-month period.  Even in the best growingconditions, fruit yield can be erratic.
The tree is propagated easily from
seed, but because the tree must be 6 to 9years old before bearing fruit (and eventhen the quality is not predictable),commercial propagation is usually accom-plished by air layering or grafting.
Uses
The longan is particularly popular in
China and southeast Asia, where it iseaten fresh, dried, and canned.  The fruitalso stores well when frozen.  Because itis similar to the lychee, the longan can beused as a substitute in a variety of recipes.In addition to providing delicious fruit,the longan tree is an attractive additionto the garden, furnishing significant shadebecause of the length and density of itsfoliage.LONGAN
Family  Sapindaceae
Scientific name Nephelium 
longana
Common name longan
♥High in vitamin CNutrient composition
Longans are high in vitamin C.  Fresh lon-
gans are significantly higher in vitamin Cthan the dried form.  (See the Appendix,page 436, for the nutrient content of driedlongan.)The longan is a small fruit similar to the lychee.  
The fruit, which develops in drooping clusters, is about 1 inch in diameter and has a smooth, yellow-brown skin.  Inside isa single black seed surrounded by white, translucent flesh that has a sweet, slightly musky flavor.
SERVING
SIZE:About 10, 
raw (32 g)186 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
The loquat is a small pear-shaped fruit that grows to about 3 inches in length and
has thin yellow skin that is sometimes covered with a fine down.  When the fruitis ripe, the skin peels easily from the flesh.  The flesh is juicy, translucent white toorange, and slightly tart, although immature fruits can be quite sour.  Each fruit contains about three to five large, smooth, dark-brown seeds.
Varieties
Loquats are available in two varieties:
orange-fleshed and white-fleshed.  Orange-fleshed varieties include Gold Nugget,Strawberry, and Tanaka; white-fleshedtypes include Advance, Champagne, andVista White.  Gold Nugget fruits have aflavor similar to that of an apricot, where-as Strawberry fruits have a flavor similarto that of strawberries.  Tanaka varietiesbear long-lasting, very large, firm, orangefruits with an aromatic, sweet flavor.  Thetranslucent white-fleshed Advance fruitsare juicy and pleasantly flavored.  VistaWhite fruits have pure white flesh and ahigh sugar content.
Origin & botanical facts
Although the loquat is indigenous to
southeastern China, the Japanese havecultivated the plant for more than 1,000years and have considerably improvedand popularized the fruit. Loquats wereintroduced to Europe in the late 18thcentury, where they were grown initiallyfor purely ornamental purposes.  It isbelieved that the plants were introducedto Hawaii by the Chinese.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 35
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 12
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 198
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 114 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 10 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup (75 g)Loquat
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Eriobotrya japonica
Common name loquat, May apple,
Japanese medlar, Japanese plum
♥High in vitamin AUses
Loquats are available in fresh, dried, and
canned forms in Asian markets.  Freshfruits can be stored at room temperatureor, if very ripe, can be refrigerated in aplastic bag.  With or without the skin,loquats are refreshing as a snack.  Theirtangy flavor livens up poultry dishes.They can be added to fruit salads or pies,made into jams and jellies, candied, ormade into a liqueur.
Nutrient composition
Loquats are high in vitamin A.
The loquat tree is a large evergreen that
belongs to the same family as the apple,peach, and plum and can grow up to 30feet in height.  Easy to grow, the plant isoften used as an ornamental plant becauseits long, boldly textured, dark-green leavesadd a tropical look to the garden.  Smallwhite flowers with a sweet fragrancebloom in fall or early winter, and thefruits appear in clusters in early spring. 
The loquat has adapted to subtropical
and mild-temperate climates, but the treewill not bear fruit if the weather is toocool or excessively hot and humid.  Thewhite-fleshed varieties are better adaptedto cool coastal areas than are the orange-fleshed types.  Today, loquats are grownin China, Japan, India, Central and SouthAmerica, the Mediterranean, the MiddleEast, and the United States, where theleading producers are California andFlorida.  Worldwide, Japan is the leadingproducer, followed by Israel and Brazil.Because fresh loquats bruise and perisheasily, they usually are found only in theregions where they are grown.  Consequently,they are not as popular or commerciallysuccessful as some other fruits.Fruits 187
Nutrient composition
Lychees are high in vitamin C.  (See the
Appendix, page 436, for the nutrientcontent of dried lychee.)
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 63
Water (%) 81
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 164
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 30
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 69
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 13 μg
Vitamin E 1 SERVING
SIZE:
10, raw (96 g)Lychee
The lychee is a small spherical fruit, 1 to 2 inches in diameter, with a rough,
inedible, bright-red shell.  Inside the shell, the creamy translucent flesh surroundsa single dark, shiny seed.  The texture is smooth, chewy, and sweet.
Family  Sapindaceae
Scientific name Litchi chinensis Sonn .
Common name lychee, litchi
♥High in  vitamin C
Varieties
Of the nearly 75 varieties of lychee
commonly grown today, the two mostcommon types in the United States arethe Brewster and the Mauritius, intro-duced from China and South Africa,respectively.
Origin & botanical facts
Lychees originated in southern China,
where the fruit is considered a symbol oflove.
The lychee tree is a long-lived ever-
green that reaches heights of up to 40feet.  Its leaves are pale green with tingesof pink when young, and they turn darkgreen and leathery when mature.  Inspring, large sprays of yellowish greenflowers cover the trees.  For the best flavor,fruits should ripen on the trees approxi-mately 60 to 90 days.  The tree requiresmoist, well-drained soil and a climate thatis cool and dry for several months pre-ceding flowering and hot and humid forthe rest of the year.  Most of the worldproduction of lychee is concentrated inAsia, with Taiwan being the leadingexporter.  Australia, Israel, Mexico, and
the United States also produce lychees.American production is concentrated inFlorida, Hawaii, and California.
Uses
Although lychees are usually eaten fresh
in tropical countries, the canned versionsare more often found in U.S. markets.Fresh lychees should be brightly coloredand full (not shriveled) with shells thatare intact and free of blemishes and withthe stem still attached.  The fruits can beplaced in a plastic bag and stored in therefrigerator for 2 to 3 weeks or in thefreezer for up to 6 months.  Lychees canbe eaten on their own, sprinkled withlemon or lime juice, or combined withberries and other fruit in a salad.  InHawaii, lychees are often stuffed withlow-fat cream cheese, topped withcrushed nuts, and served as an appetizer.Used in cooking, the sweet, aromaticflavor of the fruit complements entréesmade with ham, chicken, fish, or beef.188 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Mangoes are available in two main types,
the Indian and the Indochinese (some-times referred to as the Philippine).Between these two types, more than 100different varieties are grown worldwide.
Origin & botanical facts
Mangoes are indigenous to southeast Asia
and India.  Around the 5th century B.C.,
they were brought from India to otherparts of tropical Asia, from where theircultivation spread to other parts of theworld.  The Portuguese may have intro-duced the fruit to the New World whenthey brought seeds and seedlings to Brazil.From there, the mango found its way intoFlorida in the late 18th century.
The mango belongs to the same family
as the cashew and pistachio; it is a medium-sized to large evergreen tree.  Classified asa drupe (a fruit with a single seed), mostpopular commercial varieties of the fruithave been cultivated to be less fibrous andmore flavorful than their predecessors.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 67
Water (%) 81
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 18
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 161
Magnesium 9
Phosphorus 11
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 403 RE
Vitamin C 29
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 14 μg
Vitamin E 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1/2, raw (104 g)Mango
Family Anacardiaceae
Scientific name Mangifera indica L.
Common name mango, mangot, manga
♥High in vitamin A (beta-carotene) 
and vitamin C
Mangoes are as popular in the tropics
as the apple is in the United States.  MostU.S. imports come from Mexico, withsmaller numbers from Haiti, Brazil, andPeru.  Puerto Rico produces most of theU.S. crop, and Florida and Californiaproduce the rest. 
Worldwide, India is the leading pro-
ducer and consumer of the fruit.  Mexicois second to India in production and isthe leading exporter of mangoes today.Pakistan, Indonesia, Thailand, and Brazilare also major producers.
Uses
Mangoes are picked for shipping while
still firm and green.  The ripe fruit yieldsto slight pressure and has an intense flow-ery fragrance.  Partially ripe mangoes willripen at room temperature in about 3 to5 days.  Ripe fruit will keep for 2 to 3days in the refrigerator.
Sliced or cubed, mango is often
combined with papayas, bananas, andThe mango is an oval fruit with a smooth, inedible skin that varies from green to
yellow to red.  The fruit ranges from 2 to 9 inches long.  The yellow to orangeflesh of a mango is soft and very juicy.  The flesh encloses one large, fibrous seed.When ripe, the fruit exudesa rich smell and the flavor is both sweetand sour.coconut to make a tropical fruit salad.
Mangoes can be used to top waffles orpancakes and can be blended with yogurtand ice to make smoothies.  Puréedmango can be used to make marinade forgrilling meats or a dessert sauce.
Mangoes are generally consumed
fresh, but canned and preserved versionsand juices of the fruit also are available.
Nutrient composition
Mangoes are high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and vitamin C.Fruits 189
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 24
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 6
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 88
Magnesium 8
Phosphorus 7
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 28 RE
Vitamin C 7
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 2 μg
Vitamin E 0 
Melons
Family  Cucurbitaceae
Scientific name Cucumis melo (melon),
Cucumis melo L. indorus (honeydew
melon), Cucumis melo var.reticulatus
(cantaloupe), Citrullus lanatus (water-
melon)
Common name melon, honeydew,
cantaloupe (muskmelon), watermelonOrigin & botanical facts
Melons are believed to have originated in
Africa, Persia, and India. Egyptian hiero-glyphics that date to 2400 
B.C.provide
evidence that melons have been cultivatedand enjoyed for thousands of years.Melons were introduced by the SpanishMoors to most of Europe and were laterintroduced to the Americas in the late15th century.
The cantaloupe is thought to be
named either for Cantaloup, a village insouthern France, or Cantaluppi, a papalsummer residence near Rome, Italy.  Thetrue cantaloupe is a European melon thatis not exported to the United States, andAmerican “cantaloupes” are actually atype of muskmelon. Melons, sweet-flavored members of the family that includes squash, cucumber,
and gourds, come in an array of shapes, colors, sizes, and textures.  They range indiameter from 3 inches to more than 3 feet.  The skin may be white, green,yellow, orange, tan, or even black andhas a surface texture that is smooth, ribbed, grooved, or netted.  Inside the thick rind, the flesh may be pink, red, orange, yellow, green, or white and usually contains numerous seeds.
rind is chartreuse-yellow with longitudinal
wrinkles, and the flesh is smooth, palegreen, and subtly sweet.
The netted melons are generally oval
and range from 5 to 8 inches in diameter.When ripe, the fruits have a raised “net-ting” on a smooth, grayish beige skin.The juicy, fragrant flesh is pale to brightorange and contains numerous whiteseeds.
Watermelons ( Citrullus lanatus ) aver-
age 15 to 35 pounds and may be roundor oval.  The rind may be two-toned greenor gray-green and variegated or striped,and the sweet, juicy flesh (usually red,but also occasionally orange, yellow, orwhite) contains rows of shiny, black seeds,although some newer varieties are seed-less. Over 200 varieties of watermelonexist, with some 50 varieties grown in theUnited States.  Varieties tend to be local-ized to specific regions.  Smaller varietiesare referred to as Icebox or apartment-size melons.
Varieties
Sweet melons are generally divided into
two broad categories, dessert melons andwatermelon. Dessert melons are furthersubdivided into smooth (or winter)melons, a group that includes the hon-eydew and casaba and the lesser knowncanary, Crenshaw, and Santa Claus; net-ted melons, including cantaloupe (alsoknown as muskmelon) and Persianmelon; and the much less familiar tropicalmelons, including Haogen and Galia.Popular melons include cantaloupe,honeydew, casaba, and watermelon.
Honeydew melons ( Cucumis melo L.
indorus ) weigh 4 to 8 pounds and are
characterized by a slightly oval shape andsmooth, creamy-yellow rind. T wo typesof honeydew are available, those withgreen flesh and those with orange flesh.The orange-fleshed varieties are similarto cantaloupe  in flavor and texture.Casaba melon ( Cucumis melo var.) is
globular with a pointed stem end andusually weighs 4 to 7 pounds.  CasabaSERVING
SIZE:watermelon, 
1/2 cup, diced (76 g)190 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
The watermelon appears to be native
to Africa, where in ancient times the fruitwas valued as a source of portable water.Like the other melons, cultivation spreadto India, China, and Egypt, where 5,000-year-old pictures of watermelon adornancient tombs.  By the 1600s, watermelonswere cultivated in England, Spain, andbeyond.  Watermelons also may be nativeto North America, because early Frenchexplorers found American Indians culti-vating the plants in the Mississippi Valley.Thomas Jefferson grew watermelons atMonticello, and during the Civil War theConfederate army boiled down water-melons to produce sugar and molasses.
Melons grow on annual vine plants
that creep along the ground, attaininglengths of 6 to 10 feet.  Their leaves formsoups.  Watermelon is always eaten freshor puréed to make a refreshing drink.  Therind is pickled to make a condiment, andin Asia the roasted seeds are eaten as asnack similar to sunflower seeds.
Nutrient composition
Honeydew melon is high in vitamin C
and is a good source of potassium. Water-melon is high in vitamin C.  Cantaloupeis high in vitamin C and is a good sourceof vitamin B
6and vitamin A.  Water-
melon is a source of lycopene, an antiox-idant that may help protect against cancer.a canopy over the fruits. Although melonscan thrive in many kinds of soil, the high-est yields and the best melons are pro-duced with fertile, well-drained, slightlyacidic sandy or silt loam.  A long, frost-free season with ample sunlight, warmtemperatures, and low humidity is idealfor melons. With such climatic require-ments, it should not be surprising that inthe United States, all but a few varietiesare grown only in the south.  Florida,Texas, Georgia, and California are theleading domestic producers. 
Melons are ready to harvest about 70
to 120 days after seeds are sown. Theripeness of honeydew melons is deter-mined solely by rind color.  A change incolor from predominantly green to pre-dominantly white indicates the melonsare ready for harvest.  The  maturity ofcantaloupe is indicated by a thick, raisednetting on the surface. In contrast, theripeness of watermelons is difficult tojudge; however, mature melons tend tohave a hollow ring, the spot on the melonthat touches the ground turns from whiteto yellow, and the leaves closest to thefruit dry and turn brown.
Uses
Unripe melons can be ripened in a paper
bag at room temperature.  Because somemelons readily absorb the odor of other
foods even when uncut, they should bewrapped with plastic if kept in the refrig-erator for more than a day. Melons keepwell in the refrigerator up to 1 week.
Most melons can be used inter-
changeably in a variety of ways.  They canbe sliced and, if desired, the flavor can beenhanced with lemon or lime juice.  Theflesh can be cubed or scooped out andmixed with other fruits to make a salad.Puréed melons also make toppings for icecream and can be used as a base for coldNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 44
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 11
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 8
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 339
Magnesium 9
Phosphorus 13
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 5 RE
Vitamin C 31
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 8 μg
Vitamin E 0Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 48
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 12
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 15
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 426
Magnesium 15
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 444 RE
Vitamin C 58
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 23 μgVitamin E 0
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:1/4 medium 
cantaloupe (138 g)SERVING
SIZE:1/8 honeydew 
melon (125 g)Fruits 191
Varieties
Of the more than 150 varieties of
nectarines, the most popular are Fantasia,Summer Grand, Royal Giant, and MayGrand.  Early nectarine varieties weresmall and white-fleshed, and the skinswere uniformly green, red, or yellow.Today’s modern cross-breeding techniques(in which nectarine varieties are cross-bred with one another and with peaches)have yielded larger, more peach-likenectarines with a gold and crimson skinand yellow flesh.
Origin & Botanical Facts
The nectarine is indigenous to Asia, from
where it made its way to Europe and finallyto the Americas.  The name “nectarine”is thought to be a derivative of the nameof the Greek god Nektar, and the juiceof the fruit has been referred to as the“drink of the gods.”  The nectarine is amember of the rose (Rosaceae) family.About 98 percent of the domestic cropis grown in California, where cultivationNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 67
Water (%) 86
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 288
Magnesium 11
Phosphorus 22
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 101 RE
Vitamin C 7
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 5 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:1 medium, 
raw (136 g)Nectarine
Baked nectarine halves can be served with
baked chicken or ham, and they make adelicious dessert.
Nutrient composition
Nectarines are high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and are a good source of vitaminC.  The pit of the nectarine containsamygdalin, a compound that is convertedto cyanide in the stomach.  Although notlikely, swallowing an occasional pit acci-dentally is not harmful.
began just over 130 years ago.  These nec-
tarines are available throughout the sum-mer, reaching their peak in July andAugust.  Smaller quantities are importedfrom South America or the Middle Eastin winter and early spring.
Uses
Slightly underripe nectarines can be
ripened at room temperature in a paperbag.  Ripe fruit should be refrigerated andused within 5 days.  Nectarines can beeaten out of hand or used in salads, in avariety of fresh and cooked desserts, andas a garnish for many hot and cold dishes.At breakfast, they can be eaten sliced andtopped with yogurt and crunchy cereal, orused as a topping for waffles, pancakes,or French toast.  Because cooking softensthe fruit and enhances its sweetness, nec-tarines are sometimes used in recipes thatrequire baking, grilling, broiling, orpoaching.  Nectarines can be substitutedin any dish that calls for peaches or apricots.Nectarines, often called “peaches without the fuzz,” are generally the same size,
shape, and color as their counterparts.  However, nectarines tend to be sweeter,and because their flesh is firmer than that of peaches, nectarines are less juicy.The skin of a ripe nectarine is a brilliant, golden yellow with generous blushes of red.  Because they contain a pit, or “stone,” nectarines are classified as drupes.
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Prunus persica var.
nectarina
Common name nectarine
♥High in vitamin A (beta-carotene)
♥A good source of vitamin C 
♥Contains phytochemicals that
promote health192 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Although considered more of a condiment, the olive is an oblong fruit, slightly
pointed at one end, one-half to an inch in length.  The edible skin is thin andsmooth in unprocessed fruits but can be smooth or wrinkled in processed fruits and varies from the yellow-green of unripe olives to dull green, red, yellow, tan, rosy brown, and black, depending on variety, ripeness, and method of processing.  The skin covers flesh of the same color, enclosing a hard pit.  The flavor of fresh olives is always bitter, but the final flavor depends on both variety and method of processing.
Varieties
Olive varieties are usually divided by use
into table olives and those that are pressedfor oil.  The oil varieties significantly out-number the table varieties.  
Table olive varieties grown in Greece
include the slender, oval, purple to blackKalamata, the dark-green, crackednaphlion, and the reddish Royal (Greekblack and oil-cured olives are the resultof alternative methods of processing).Italy grows the brownish black Gaeta, thetartly flavored Sicilian Green, the tanCalabrese, the firm black Lugano, andthe piquant brown-black Liguria.  Franceproduces the tiny brown Nicoise. Tableolives grown in the United States includethe Manzanilla, Sevillano, and Mission.
Origin & botanical facts
The olive is one of the oldest known cul-
tivated fruits; cultivation of what hadbeen wild olive trees predates recordedhistory and probably began on the Greekpeninsula of Attica.  In the early 18thcentury, Spanish explorers brought olivecuttings to Peru, from where they werecarried to Mexico by Franciscan monks,Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 51
Water (%) 80
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 5
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 39
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 4
Magnesium 2
Phosphorus 1
Sodium 380
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 18 RE
Vitamin C 0
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B6 0
Folate 0 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:10 large ripe olives, 
1/3 cup (44 g)Olives
Family  Oleaceae
Scientific name Olea europaea
Common name olive
♥A source of monounsaturated fatand flesh.  The fourth method, developed
and practiced solely in the United States,is the rapid soaking of ripe olives in lye,
followed by boiling in iron (for color preser-
vation) and canning, to produce thefamiliar bland, soft black olive.
Unopened cans or jars of olives can be
stored at room temperature for up to 2years.  Loose olives and opened cans shouldbe loosely covered with plastic wrap andrefrigerated for no more than 2 weeks.
Nutrient composition
Although olives are among the fruits with
the highest fat content, it is mostlymonounsaturated.  (See the Appendix,page 436, for other nutrients found inolives.)who later brought them to California.
The cultivated olive tree is a long-lived
evergreen that requires a mild climate withwarm summers and relatively cold winters.Its relative drought resistance has enabledit to thrive in the Mediterranean climateand in California.  Olive trees bloom inMay, producing delicate cream-coloredflowers, and the fruit is harvested fromearly autumn to winter.  The Mediterraneancountries account for 95 percent of theworld’s olive cultivation.
Uses
Fresh olives contain tannins that render
them inedible; hence, all olives areprocessed or cured.  Table olives areprocessed by four methods.  With theSpanish method, unripe olives are fer-mented in brine for up to 7 months.  Thebrine-soaking method is used on Italianand Greek olives such as Kalamatas, oftenadded to Greek salads.  Brief soaking (1to 2 weeks) produces crunchy olives, andprolonged soaking (a month or more)
results in chewier, sweeter olives.  A third
method, typically used in Greece, involvespacking and aging olives in salt or oil,which produces olives with shriveled skinsFruits 193
The orange is a reddish yellow, round fruit of the citrus family with a rich, juicy
pulp that varies in flavor from very sweet to sour.  The pulp of the orange is asegmented ball, each segment wrapped tightly in a thin semi-opaque membranecalled the albedo.  The flesh is encased in a sturdy, glossy skin composed of two layers.  The outer layer, called the zest, has a pungent but pleasant fragrance, and the inner layer, called the pith, is white, spongy, and bitter.  Although some varieties are seedless, most have seeds.
Varieties
There are two common types of oranges:
the sweet orange, which is the morecommon, and the sour orange.  The sourorange has a thick skin and is used pre-dominantly in making marmalades andliqueurs.  The sweet varieties are prizedboth for eating and for their juice.  Thetwo most common varieties of sweetorange are the navel and the Valencia.The navel orange has a thick, easy-to-peelskin, is seedless, and has a mild flavor.Valencia oranges are more commonlyknown as juice oranges because of theirabundant juice content and thinner skin,which makes them easy to squeeze.  Othersweet oranges include the blood orange,
with its red pulp, and the Jaffa, importedfrom Israel.
Origin & botanical facts
The name orange, “naranga” in Sanskrit,
comes from the Tamil “naru” and meansgood guide to quality because some
oranges are artificially colored to preserveshelf life and to enhance appeal andmarketability.  
The fruit is a great snack, although
most Americans consume oranges in theform of juice.  Oranges are a versatilecooking ingredient.  The skin is usedcommercially in candy and is the base forvarious liqueurs and cordials.
Nutrient composition
Oranges are high in vitamin C and are a
good source of folate.  Oranges (but nottheir juice) are good sources of fiber.  Bothcontain antioxidants that promote health.
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 62
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 15
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 52
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 237
Magnesium 13
Phosphorus 18
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 28 RE
Vitamin C 70
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 40 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:1 medium,
raw (131 g)Orange
Family  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus aurantium L.,
Citrus sinensis L.
Common name orange, sweet orange,
sour orange
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of folate and fiber
♥Contains antioxidants that promote
health
“fragrant.”  The orange is a native of
Southeast Asia.  The seeds and seedlingsof this golden fruit were brought to theNew World by European conquerorsaround 1520.  By the 1820s, the orangewas a flourishing crop in Florida.Oranges survived the severe freeze dur-ing the winter of 1894-1895 to becomethe most popular fruit in the UnitedStates after apples and bananas.
Oranges grow best in areas that have
a subtropical to semitropical climate.  Theorange tree is a lush evergreen that thrivesin warm climates and can simultaneouslyproduce flowers, fruit, and foliage.  Forthis reason, it is nicknamed the “fertilitytree.”  When in full bloom, the tree has afragrant smell.
Uses
Oranges may keep up to 7 days in the
refrigerator or in cool room temperaturesin ventilated areas.  Skin color is not a194 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Of the two types of papayas, Hawaiian
and Mexican, the Hawaiian is the smaller,pear-shaped type that is generally foundin supermarkets.  A whole H awaiian papaya
weighs about a pound.   The Mexican
papaya is usually larger and more elon-gated, often weighing up to 10 pounds.This variety usually has darker flesh and,although the flavor is less intense thanthat of its Hawaiian counterpart, it is stillquite juicy and delicious.  Mexicanvarieties include Mexican Yellow andMexican Red, named for the flesh color.The most common Hawaiian variety iscalled the Solo.
Origin & botanical facts
Although the papaya is native to southern
Mexico and Central America, it is nowgrown in every tropical and subtropicalcountry. Brazil is the leading producer ofpapayas in the world, dominating exportsto Europe.  Mexico is the largest supplierof papayas to the United States andCanada.  The United States crop is con-centrated in Hawaii and is used to supplypapayas to Japan and Canada. 
Technically an herb, the papaya tree
can grow to 10 or 12 feet in height.Mexican varieties are usually taller.  ANutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 30
Water (%) 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 8
Protein (grams) 0.5
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 18
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 196
Magnesium 8
Phosphorus 4
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 22 RE
Vitamin C 47
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 29 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
1/4 medium (76 g)Papaya
Family  Caricaceae
Scientific name Carica papaya
Common name papaya, tree melon
♥High in vitamin Ctemperature permanently halts the ripen-
ing process, unripe fruits should not berefrigerated.
Papaya is usually eaten raw.  Its cool,
bland flavor complements spicy foods.Green papayas contain latex and should
not be eaten raw, but they can be cooked
and used in salsa or added to stews andsoups.  Papayas cannot be used in gelatindesserts because an enzyme in the fruitprevents the gelatin from solidifying.
Nutrient composition
Papayas are high in vitamin C and contain
beta-cryptoxanthin, a phytochemical thatpromotes health.thin, cylindrical, non-woody trunk is
topped off by spiraling leaves that containfive to nine main segments each. All partsof the plant contain large amounts oflatex.  The fruits, which hang from short,thick peduncles at the base of the leaves,are usually harvested at color break (whena streak of yellow appears in the green)and should still exhibit some green in thesupermarket.
Papaya plants exist in one of three sex
types:  male, female, and hermaphrodite.Male plants have tubular flowers but bearno fruit.  Female plants have round flowersand bear round fruits. Hermaphroditeplants have characteristics of both maleand female flowers and produce the pear-shaped fruit that is preferred by consumers.Some plants produce flowers of more than
one sex type, depending on climatic factors.
High temperatures seem to favor male
flowers. P apaya seeds can remain viable for
years if storage conditions are dry and cool.
Uses
Papayas ripen in 3 to 5 days at room tem-
perature, and ripe fruit can be stored inthe refrigerator for a week.  Because coldPapayas are round to oval fruits that have 
a smooth, thin skin.  When ripe, papayas have yellow skin and firm, sweet flesh that ranges from yellow-orange to salmon pink.  Numerous tiny black seeds are clustered in the center of the fruit.Fruits 195
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 68
Water (%) 73
Dietary fiber (grams) 8
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 8
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 252
Magnesium 20
Phosphorus 48
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 52 RE
Vitamin C 20
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 12 μg
Vitamin E 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:4 fruits, raw (72 g)
(pulp only)Passion Fruit
fruits can be refrigerated up to 1 week.  
The fruit’s pulp can be eaten plain or
spooned over ice cream, cakes, and otherdesserts.  Passion fruit also makes deliciousjams and jellies, to which the seeds adda crunchy texture.  The fruit also can bepressed to extract a highly fragrant juicethat adds a pleasant flavor to beveragessuch as iced tea, punch, and cocktails.
Nutrient composition
Passion fruit is high in vitamin C and
dietary fiber if the seeds are consumed
along with the pulp.  In addition, it is a
good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene).free climates. In addition to South
America, New Zealand, Africa, the WestIndies, Malaysia, and the United Statesalso grow passion fruit.  California andFlorida account for the majority ofdomestic production of the purple vari-eties, whereas H awaii produces mainly
the yellow varieties.  As a commercial item,fresh passion fruit is currently considereda specialty, low-volume item in the UnitedStates.  The fruit is more commonly usedas an ingredient in commercial food anddrink products.
The plant is a vigorous, climbing vine
that can grow 15 to 20 feet a year onceestablished.  Each fruit develops from asingle fragrant flower that is 2 to 3 incheswide with green and white petals.  Thefruits quickly turn from green to purple(or yellow) when ripe and fall to theground within a few days.  They can bepicked from the vine when ripe orharvested off the ground.
Uses
When ripe, passion fruits are heavy with
wrinkled skin. Fruits that are heavy andfirm should be chosen. Unripe fruits canbe left at room temperature to ripen. RipeShaped like an egg, the passion fruit ranges from 2 to 8 inches long.  As the fruit
ripens, the inedible leathery skin, which can be purple or yellow, darkens,wrinkles, and becomes brittle.  The yellow pulp has a jelly-like consistency andcontains many edible grape-sized, flesh-covered, black seeds that are somewhat like those of a pomegranate.  The pulp’s flavor is sweet-tart and lemony, and it is highly fragrant.
Varieties
With more than 400 varieties, about 30
of which are edible, passion fruits aredivided into three main categories:  pur-ple passion fruit ( Passiflora edulis Sims),
yellow passion fruit ( P . edulis f. flavicarpa
Deg.), and giant granadilla ( P . quadrang-
ularis L.).  The purple varieties bear dark
purple to black fruits that are about 2inches long.  The yellow varieties bearslightly longer (about 2 1/2 inches) deep-yellow fruits.  Less commonly found arefruits of the giant granadilla varieties,which can reach 8 inches in length.
Origin & botanical facts
Passion fruit is native to the South
American tropics.  Spanish missionaries,upon discovering the plant in SouthAmerica, are said to have given the fruitits name, because its flowers resembledinstruments of the Passion and crucifix-ion of Christ, such as the crown of thorns,hammers, and nails.
Being a tropical to subtropical fruit,
the passion fruit is best grown in frost-Family  Passifloraceae
Scientific name Passiflora edulis
Common name passion fruit, granadilla
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of vitamin A 
(beta-carotene)
♥High in fiber196 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Peaches are round to oblong with a slight tip.  Because of the hard seed, or
“stone,” at their core, they are known as a “stone fruit,” or drupe.  The fuzzy skin
of peaches is the only characteristic that distinguishes them in appearance from
the smooth-skinned nectarine.  Ripe peaches can assume a range of colors fromcreamy-white to light-pink, yellow, orange, and red.  The flesh also can range from a pinkish 
white to an intense yellow-gold.  The firmness and juiciness of a peach depend largely on variety and on thedegree of ripeness.
Varieties
Peaches are generally classified into one
of two categories: “freestone” or “cling-stone,” although some are also considered“semi-freestone.”  Freestone peaches, theones more commonly available, are thosewhose pits are easily removed, whereasthe pit of clingstones is enmeshed withinthe flesh.  Both freestone and clingstonepeaches have numerous varieties thatdiffer in skin color, flesh color, firmness,and juiciness.  T wo of the most popularvarieties of yellow-fleshed freestonepeaches are Elegant Lady and O-Henry.Other varieties include the Hale, Rio OsoGem, and Elberta.
Origin & botanical facts
A native of China, where they have been
grown for more than 2,500 years, peacheswere once revered as a symbol of longevityand immortality.  The fruit made its wayto Europe by way of Persia.  SpanishNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 42
Water (%) 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 11
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 193
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 12
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 53 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:1 medium peeled,
raw (98 g)Peach
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Prunus persica
Common name peach
♥A good source of vitamin A
(beta-carotene) and vitamin CUses
Peaches that are slightly soft to firm when
pressed and are free of blemishes or softspots should be chosen.  To hasten theripening process, underripe peaches canbe left in a loosely closed paper bag atroom temperature for 2 to 3 days.  Onceripe, they can be kept at room tempera-ture for about 3 to 4 days or slightlylonger in the refrigerator. 
For cooking purposes, the skin of a
peach can be easily peeled by blanchingfor 30 seconds.
Nutrient composition
Peaches are a good source of vitamin A
(beta-carotene) and vitamin C.explorers brought the plant to the New
World, where Spanish missionariesplanted the trees in California.  Since theearly 1800s, peaches have been growncommercially in the United States, whichnow produces one-fourth of the world’smarket crop.  Other major producers ofpeaches include Italy, Greece, and China.Georgia was once the largest producer ofpeaches in the United States, earning itthe nickname “Peach State.”  Today, thefruit is grown in more than 30 states, andCalifornia is the largest producer.  Peachesare related to other deciduous floweringfruit trees, including plum, cherry,apricot, and almond.  Although origi-nally grown only in moderate climates,the many new varieties make it possiblefor peaches to be grown throughoutmuch of the United States.
Standard trees may grow as high as 30
feet and can live up to 40 years. Somedwarf varieties may reach no more than 3feet.  Beautiful flowers, ranging from palepink to red, appear in the spring and giveway to fruits that usually ripen in mid-summer.  An 8- to 10-year-old tree canproduce up to 6 bushels of fruit annually.Fruits 197
Varieties
Hundreds of pear varieties, varying in
shape, size, color, texture, flavor, aroma,and time of ripening, grow throughout theworld.  In the United States, the four mainvarieties are the Bartlett, Anjou, Bosc, andComice.  The Bartlett, the most popularsummer pear, is the principal variety usedfor canning and the only variety sold dried.Bartletts are large, juicy, fragrant, and sweetand turn from dark-green to golden-yellowwhen ripe.  A red-skinned strain called theRed Bartlett is also available.  Blander intaste are Anjou pears, which are oval withsmooth yellow-green skin and a creamyflesh.  The Anjou is the most abundantwinter pear.  Bosc pears have dull, reddishbrown skin and very firm flesh.  Reputedlythe most flavorful and sweetest variety isthe Comice, which is squat in shape withdull-green skin.  A variety that is growingin popularity is the Asian pear (also knownas the Oriental pear, Chinese pear, orJapanese pear).  Asian pears are crunchierthan the common pears, round, and goldenbrown to yellow-green.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 98
Water (%) 84
Dietary fiber (grams) 4
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 25
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 18
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 208
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 18
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE
Vitamin C 7
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 –
Folate 12 μg
Vitamin E 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:1 medium, raw, with skin (166 g)Pear
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Pyrus communis
(common or European pear),Pyrus pyrifolia (Asian pear)
Common name pear, common pear,
European pear, Asian pear, sand pear
♥A good source of dietary fiber and
vitamin CUses
Firm pears, such as the Bosc, are best for
baking and poaching.  Because pears arepicked while still green, they should beripened at room temperature until thestem end yields slightly to pressure.  Onceripe, pears should be refrigerated.  Slicedpears should be sprinkled with lemon juiceto prevent browning.
Nutrient composition
Raw pears (with the skin on) are a good
source of vitamin C and dietary fiber.
Origin & botanical facts
Native to the northern regions of central
Asia, pears have been cultivated for morethan 3,000 years.  Pear trees were intro-duced to North America by the earlycolonists, who brought cuttings fromEuropean stock.  The largest producers ofpears today are China, Italy, Russia, andthe United States. California, Oregon,and Washington account for 98 percent ofthe United States pear crop.  Pears areclosely related to apples in that both arepome fruits (fruits with a distinct seed-containing core) and members of the rosefamily.  However, pear trees tend to bemore upright than apple trees (commer-cially grown trees are usually pruned toabout 20 feet high).  Ideal growing con-ditions require a combination of warmdays, cool nights, rich volcanic soil, andample water.  Between 100 and 170 daysare required from bloom to harvest.  Likebananas and avocados, pears are usuallypicked before they are fully ripe, becausethey do not ripen well on the tree.Pears are bell-shaped fruits, wide and round at the bottom, narrowing toward the
stem; however, some varieties are nearly round.  Pears range in size from less than1 inch to 3 inches in diameter.  They have a smooth, thin skin that may be green,yellow, brown, or red when ripe.  The juicy, sweet flesh is usually white with atinge of yellow.  The flesh of some pears is sandy in texture.  Enclosed within the flesh is a cartilaginous core that contains as many as 10 seeds.198 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Persimmons are divided into two types,
based on flavor and texture.  The astringenttype is inedible until it ripens andbecomes soft, and the non-astringent typecan be eaten while it is underripe andcrisp.  The astringent varieties are har-vested while still firm and allowed to ripenfully and soften.  Astringent persimmonscan ripen off the tree when stored at roomtemperature.  Non-astringent varietiesare harvested when they are fully coloredand ripe.  Persimmons are also dividedinto two classes by their origin:  Japaneseand American.  Although Japanese per-simmons exist in both astringent andnon-astringent varieties, they tend to beless astringent than American.  The mostcommon variety of persimmon availablein the United States is the Hachiya, anastringent Japanese persimmon that islarge and acorn-shaped.  A popular non-astringent Japanese variety is the Fuyu,which is smaller than the Hachiya andshaped like a tomato.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 59
Water (%) 80
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 135
Magnesium 8
Phosphorus 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 182 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:1/2 persimmon,raw (84 g)Persimmon
Family  Ebenaceae
Scientific name Diospyros kaki (Oriental
persimmon), Diospyros virginiana
(native persimmon)
Common name persimmon, Oriental 
persimmon, Japanese persimmon, kaki
♥High in vitamin A (carotenes)
♥A good source of vitamin C and fiberUses
Unripe fruit will ripen in a few days at
room temperature.  Ripe fruit can berefrigerated 2 to 3 days.  Freezing astrin-gent persimmons and thawing them thenext day also may help remove some ofthe astringency.
Persimmons can be added to cakes,
cookies, rolls, and breads.  Persimmonpulp is used to make preserves, beer, andbrandy.  Puréed persimmon can be usedas a sauce for poultry or dessert.
Nutrient composition
Japanese persimmons are an excellent
source of vitamin A (carotenes) and area good source of vitamin C and fiber.Origin & Botanical Facts
The Oriental persimmon, cultivated for
centuries in China and later brought toJapan and Korea, was introduced toCalifornia in the 1870s.  The U.S.Department of Agriculture importedpersimmon trees to Florida and Georgia.In contrast, native persimmons haveflourished over much of what is now thecontinental United States for centuries.American Indians dried the fruit to eatthroughout the winter.
The Oriental persimmon is a droop-
leafed deciduous tree that can attain aheight and width of about 25 feet.Because the tree is relatively cold-sensitive,it is grown only in the Deep South.  Thenative persimmon can reach heights of 30to 40 feet and is more tolerant of poorsoils and cold than the Oriental type.
Oriental persimmon trees are self-
pollinating and also can produce seedlessfruits from unfertilized flowers.  The incon-spicuous flowers are cream-colored or pink.The fruit is in season from October toFebruary. Native persimmons are not self-pollinating.  Their flowers range fromwhite to yellow and appear in May.  Thefruit appears in September, but it does notripen until the weather cools.  Orientaland native varieties cannot cross-pollinate. The persimmon, sometimes called the “apple of the Orient,” is a spherical or
acorn-like, smooth-skinned fruit that ranges from a light yellow-orange to a brilliant orange-red.  Persimmons vary from 1 to more than 3 inches in diameter. Except for theseeds, the entire fruit is edible.Fruits 199
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 38
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 10
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 1
Potassium 89
Magnesium 11
Phosphorus 5
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 2 RE
Vitamin C 12
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 8 μg
Vitamin E 0 
Family  Bromeliaceae
Scientific name Ananas comosus
Common name pineapple
♥High in vitamin Ccannot be added to gelatin, yogurt, or
cottage cheese because the fruit containsa digestive enzyme called bromelain thatcan break down the protein in milk, meat,and gelatin and makes these foods watery.However, bromelain is degraded by heat,so canned or boiled pineapple can be usedinstead.  Because of this enzyme activity,fresh pineapples are often used in mari-nades to tenderize meats and poultry,although meat that is allowed to sit in thepineapple marinade for too long can turnmushy.
Nutrient composition
Pineapple is high in vitamin C and contains
phytochemicals that promote health.with large, waxy, pointed leaves. Each
plant bears one fruit in the center, and eachpineapple is actually the result of thefusion of many individual fruits. U nlike
most other fruits (with the exception ofsome melons), pineapples do not have areserve of starch that converts to sugar afterharvest. Instead, the starch is stored in thestem of the plant and enters the fruit assugar just before it ripens completely.  Asa result, the fruit will not become anysweeter after harvest, so growers mustallow the pineapple to ripen on the plantto maximize the sugar and juice contentof the fruit.
Uses
When selecting a pineapple, choose one
with fresh, green leaves and no obvioussoft or brown spots, especially at the base.When ripe, the rind can be dark green,yellow, or reddish yellow; however, mostpineapples on the market are already ripe,regardless of their color, and should berefrigerated in a plastic bag after purchase.Freshly cut pineapple may be kept, sealedairtight, in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Pineapples are consumed fresh and
canned and as juice.  Fresh pineappleThe pineapple is a cylindrical fruit that is approximately 
4 to 8 inches in diameter and can reach a length of 12 inches, weighing up to 10 pounds.  It has a waxy, tough rind covering a juicy flesh that surrounds a fibrous core.  The flesh and core range from nearly white to yellow, and the flavor is a combination of apples, strawberries, and peaches.
Pineapple
Varieties
Three varieties of fresh pineapple are avail-
able in the United States.  The popularSmooth Cayenne, from Hawaii, weighs 3to 5 pounds, and its flesh ranges from paleyellow to yellow.  The Red Spanish is nearlysquare and has a tougher shell that makesit well suited to shipping.  Its flesh is paleyellow and has a pleasant aroma.  Weighingup to 10 pounds, the Sugar Loaf is thelargest of the three varieties.  Its white fleshlacks the woodiness often found in the coreof other varieties.
Origin & botanical facts
The pineapple is indigenous to southern
Brazil and Paraguay.  Columbus encoun-tered the pineapple on his 1493 journeyto the Caribbean and took it back toEurope, from where it spread to manyother parts of the world on ships thatcarried it as protection against scurvy, adisease caused by a deficiency of vitaminC.  The name is derived from piña, aname given by the Spanish, who thoughtthat the fruit resembled a pinecone.
Pineapples do not grow on trees. They
grow on a plant that is technically an herb,SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, diced, 
raw (78 g)Varieties
Of the more than 1,000 varieties of plums
in Europe and 140 in North America,about 20 dominate the commercial supplyof plums in the United States, most ofwhich are Japanese or European varieties.The Japanese types have juicy yellow orreddish flesh and skin colors that rangefrom crimson to black-red.  The SantaRosa and Red Beaut are two of the morepopular Japanese varieties.  Europeanplums, or Prunus domestica , are smaller,
denser, and less juicy than their Japanesecounterparts.  Their skin color is alwaysblue or purple, and their pits are usuallyfreestone, which means that they separateeasily from the flesh.  Among the better-known varieties are Italian, President,Empress, Stanley, and T ragedy.  In theUnited States, the bulk of Europeanplums are grown in the Pacific Northwest,but some varieties are successfully culti-vated in the eastern states.  With its firmerflesh and higher sugar and acid contents,the European variety is best suited forprunes (also called dried plums).  Themost common variety of plum used forprunes is the California French, also knownas d’Agen.  A few varieties of prune plumsare sold fresh and are called fresh prunes
or purple plums.
Origin & botanical facts
Although plums are native to several tem-
perate regions around the world, includingNorth America, early colonists broughtEuropean varieties with them that sup-planted native American plums.  In thelate 19th century, dozens of varieties fromEurope and Asia were cultivated in theUnited States, primarily in California.One of the most influential plum breederswas the famed horticulturist LutherBurbank, who in 1907 developed theSanta Rosa variety, which now accountsfor about a third of the total domesticcrop.  The California French plum is adescendant of the first prune plumsbrought to California from France byLouis Pellier in the 1850s.  The domesticplum season extends from May toOctober, beginning with the Japanese vari-eties and ending with the European types.Today, about 70 percent of the world’sprune supply and nearly 100 percent ofdomestic prunes come from California.Uses
The majority of plums are eaten fresh.
Plums are a nutritious, low-calorie foodthat can be eaten out of hand or addedto fruit salads, baked goods, compotes,and meat dishes.  Plums also can be madeinto jams, purées, or sauces.  A famousfood prepared from plums is the Chineseplum sauce, also known as duck sauce.Puréed prunes make a good substitute forbutter and other fat in baked goods.Prunes are also made into juice.
Nutrient Composition
Plums are a good source of vitamin C.
Prunes are a good source of vitamin A(carotenes) and fiber.  (See the Appendix,page 436, for the nutrient content of prunes[dried plums].)
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 36
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 114
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 7
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 21 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 1 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1 medium, raw (66 g)Plum
The plum is a drupe, a fruit with a single pit that is related to the peach, nec-
tarine, and apricot.  However, whereas only two or three varieties of those exist,plums are available in a wide variety of shapes, sizes, and colors.  Plums grow inclusters and have smooth, richly colored skins.  The thousands of varieties identifiedworldwide range from 1 to 3 inches in diameter, in flavor from sweet to tart, andin skin color from yellow to green, red, purple, and indigo blue.200 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Prunus domestica, 
Prunus salicina
Common name plum
♥Plums are a good source of 
vitamin C
♥Prunes (dried plums) are a good source
of vitamin A  (carotenes) and fiberand contain isatin, a natural laxativeFruits 201
Varieties
There are three kinds of pomegranates:
one that is very sour and two that aresweet.  The sour type is used in place ofunripe grapes to make juice, and the sweettypes are eaten as a dessert.  In addition,some nonfruiting varieties are grownpurely for their double flowers, and adwarf variety has been developed thatgrows only 2 to 3 feet tall and makes adecorative container plant.
Origin & botanical facts
The pomegranate is a fruit with a color-
ful history.  The name is derived from theOld French terms “pome,” for “apple,”and “grenate,” for “many-seeded.”  Nativeto southeastern Europe and Asia, pome-granates have long been celebrated in artand literature.  The seeds have been aHebrew symbol of fertility since biblicaltimes, and the fruit once formed part ofthe decoration on the pillars of KingSolomon’s temple.  In the 16th century,Spanish missionaries brought the plantto the New World.  Currently, the pome-Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 105
Water (%) 81
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 26
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 399
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 12
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 9
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 9 μg
Pantothenic acid 1
Vitamin E 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1 fruit (154 g)POMEGRANATE
Family  Punicaceae
Scientific name Punica granatum
Common name pomegranate,
grenadier, granada, Chinese apple
♥A good source of potassium and vitamins C and B
6be substituted for raisins in cakes.
Grenadine, a light syrup made frompomegranates, is used as a flavoring incocktails, soft drinks, and confections.Pomegranate molasses is a popular ingre-dient in Mediterranean and MiddleEastern cooking.  Aside from the fruit’sculinary uses, crushed pomegranateflowers produce a brilliant red dye.  Thebark is used in tanning and is the sourceof the yellow hue of Moroccan leather.
Nutrient composition
Pomegranates are a good source of potas-
sium and vitamins C and B6.granate is a crop of minor commercial
importance.
The pomegranate plant is a dense,
deciduous shrub that can grow up to 12feet in height.  Crimson flowers are borneon slender, somewhat thorny branchesthat have glossy, dark-green leaves aboutan inch long.  The plant grows best insubtropical climates but can tolerate sub-freezing temperatures.  If grown from seed,plants begin to fruit after 3 to 4 years.
Uses
Pomegranates are available in the United
States only from October to December.Fruits should be heavy for their size andplump, as if bursting, with a slightly softcrown and shiny skin.  The fruit can berefrigerated for up to 2 months or storedin a cool, dark place for about a month.  
The pomegranate is rather labor-inten-
sive to eat.  After the skin has been peeled,the seeds can be removed individually, orthe fruit can be cut in half and the seedsscooped away from the membrane witha spoon.  The seeds also can be used as agarnish for desserts and in salads or pressedto make a refreshing drink.  Used as a spicein northern India, dried pomegranate canThe pomegranate is a round fruit the size of a large orange with a protruding
crown and smooth, leathery skin that can range from red to yellowish pink.  Eachfruit contains hundreds of ruby-colored seeds that are individually encased in a translucent, red, juicy pulp that is sweet to tart.  The seeds are packed into compartments that are separated by cream-colored, bitter-tasting membranes. Both the seeds and pulp are edible.202 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The genus Opuntia contains as many as
1,000 species, most of which bear ediblefruits.  Commonly cultivated as a sourceof food are varieties of the speciesOpuntia ficus-indica .  Other species are
planted for purely ornamental purposes.
Origin & botanical facts
Species of the genus Opuntia are believed
to have originated in central Mexico andthe Caribbean.  Since pre-Columbiandays, American Indians have collectedthe ripe fruits and tender stems, or “pads,”for use as a food source and the older padsfor livestock feed.  Spanish explorers intro-duced the plants to Spain, from wherethey were brought to North Africa by theMoors.  Today, the plant is grown world-wide in areas with a moderate climate.Prickly pear is the national fruit of Israel,where it is called Sharon’s fruit. 
The prickly pear plant is a perennial
of the cactus family that prefers a hot, dryenvironment and, like other cacti, canwithstand long periods of drought.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 42
Water (%) 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 4
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 10
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 58
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 227
Magnesium 88
Phosphorus 25
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 5 RE
Vitamin C 14
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 0
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1 fruit, raw (103 g)Prickly Pear
Family  Cactaceae
Scientific name Opuntia ficus-indica
Common name prickly pear, Indian fig,
nopal, nopalitos, Sharon’s fruit
♥High in vitamin C and magnesium
♥A good source of fiberripe, the fruits yield when gently pressed.
Ripe fruits can be stored in a perforatedplastic bag in the refrigerator up to 2 days.  
Prickly pears are refreshing when
eaten with a sprinkle of lime or lemonjuice.  They can be diced and used to topice cream, sorbet, yogurt, and variousdesserts, or they can be puréed to makemarmalade and dessert sauces.  The pads(nopales), which are served as a vegetable,can be cut into pieces, steamed or stewed,and added to omelets, salads, and soups.
Nutrient composition
Prickly pears are high in magnesium and
vitamin C and are a good source of fiber.Growing up to 15 feet high, the plant has
no real leaves; the segmented, flat, oval-shaped pads serve as both leaves andwater-storage organs.  These pads arecovered with sharp spines.  In midsum-mer, brilliant flowers bloom along theedges of the pads, from which fleshy fruitsdevelop.  The plants are easily propagatedby detaching the pads and planting themin soil.  Roots form quickly, and newplants soon become established.  Someprickly pears harbor an interesting para-site, the cochineal, a red insect less thanan eighth-inch long that is the source ofa brilliant red dye.  Along with the cactusthat harbors the insect, the technique ofisolating the dye was brought back toEurope by the conquistadors.
Uses
Although commercially sold prickly pears
have already had their spines removed,caution should still be used when han-dling the fruit.  If the spines have notbeen removed, they should be scraped offcarefully with a knife or rubbed off witha towel.  The skin should be peeled beforeconsumption.  Immature fruits can beleft at room temperature to ripen. WhenT wo to 4 inches long and shaped like an egg, the prickly pear has a coarse, thick
skin that can be yellow, orange, pink, magenta, or red, depending on the variety.
The inedible skin is dotted with tubercles that have small, almost invisible spines capable of pricking the skin.The prickly pear’s flesh is mildly sweet, juicy, and fragrant and contains numerous edible, small, crunchy seeds.  Like the skin, the flesh can range from yellow to dark red.Fruits 203
Varieties
Among the common varieties of pum-
melo available in the United States arethe Chandler, Ichang, Red Shaddock,Reinking, T resca, and Webber.
Origin & botanical facts
A native of Malaysia, the pummelo is a
popular fruit in east, southeast, and southAsia.  It is believed to have been intro-duced to the West Indies by an Englishsea captain named Shaddock, by whosename this fruit is sometimes called.Pummelo trees are strictly tropical andgrow only in frost-free regions.  Theyachieve heights of 15 to 30 feet, and thecrown of the tree is round.  Like othercitrus trees, they bear fruit for manydecades.   Although the pummelo is notgrown commercially in the United States,Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 36
Water (%) 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 4
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 205
Magnesium 6
Phosphorus 16
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 58
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate –
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Pummelo
Family  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus grandis
Common name pummelo, pomelo,
pommelo, Chinese grapefruit, Shaddock
♥High in vitamin C
imported fruits are available at the market
from November through March.  
Uses
Pummelos can be used in the same way as
grapefruits.  By themselves, they can beeaten as a breakfast fruit or a refreshingsnack, or they can be added to fruit salads.The thick rind and pith should be peeledbefore use and the fruit sectioned like agrapefruit or pulled into pieces.  The skinand white pith of the pummelo arecandied to make a traditional Chinesetreat.  The fruit can be stored at roomtemperature for up to a week or up to 2weeks in the refrigerator.
Nutrient composition
Like most citrus fruits, the pummelo is
high in vitamin C.The pummelo is a pear-shaped citrus fruit that comes in a variety of sizes and
colors and is believed to be the ancestor of the grapefruit.  Normally between 4and 7 inches in diameter (about the size of a cantaloupe), the pummelo can growto the size of a large watermelon and weigh up to 20 pounds.  The fruit is coveredby a soft, easily peeled rind that may be half an inch or more in thickness andranges from yellow to pink.  Thick membranes separate the inner segments of this fruit.  The flesh of the pummelo also varies from a light yellow to a dark pink.  Although tart, the pummelo is sweeter (but firmer and less juicy) than grapefruit.
SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup sections, 
raw (95 g)204 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Quince
Family  Rosaceae
Scientific name Cydonia oblonga
Common name quince
♥High in vitamin Ctemperature.  Ripe quince, which is fra-
grant, can be kept in a perforated plasticbag in the refrigerator up to 2 weeks.Because of the quince’s dry, hard textureand its astringent flavor, it is betterconsumed cooked than raw.  Before beingcooked, quince must be peeled, cored (theseeds contain a cyanide compound), andplaced in a mixture of water and lemonjuice to prevent discoloration.  Whencooked, the hard pulp of the fruit softens,turns pink, and takes on the texture of apear.  The flavor becomes more mellowand sweeter.
Nutrient composition
Quince is high in vitamin C.by the goddess Venus.  The quince
became a symbol of love and happiness,a symbolism that lasted into the MiddleAges.  Quince was eaten at weddings,shared by brides and grooms as a token oftheir love.  Medieval English manuscriptscontain recipes mentioning “char deQuynce,” the old name for quince mar-malade. In fact, the word “marmalade”is derived from the Portuguese word forquince, “marmelo.”  Today the quince iscultivated throughout the Mediterranean,in South America, and in the UnitedStates, where California is the leadingproducer.
Quince grows as a many-branched
deciduous shrub or small tree, no morethan 10 to 12 feet tall, and produces large,fragrant white, pink, or red flowers beforethe leaves appear.  The plants are propa-gated by seeds, shoots, cuttings, or layer-ing.  The flowering quince is popularlygrown as an ornamental plant.  
Uses
Quince is available only in the autumn.
Unripe fruits can be ripened at roomThe quince is a member of the same family as apples and pears.  The mature fruit
ranges in size and shape from that of a small plum to that of a large pear, depend-ing on variety.  In cool, temperate climates, the quince’s rough, woolly rinddevelops a golden color when ripe.  Its firm, white flesh has a strong fragrance, but the fruit is hard and sour and is generally inedible unless cooked.
Varieties
The two most common varieties of
American quince are the pineapple quinceand the perfumed quince. The pineapplequince is round and has a yellow skin andwhite flesh that is somewhat dry.  Theflavor is similar to that of pineapple. Theperfumed quince is the shape of a smallfootball and has a tart flesh.  Great Britainproduces the Portugal, the apple-shaped,and the pear-shaped quince. The Japanese
quince has a slightly more acidic flavor.Several small varieties are often used forbonsai plants.
Origin & botanical facts
Known throughout Asia and the
Mediterranean region for about 4,000years, the quince originated somewherein the Middle East (possibly Iran), whereit still grows wild.  The ancient Greekscultivated a common variety of quincebut grafted onto it a better variety fromCydon, a town in Crete, from which theword “quince” is derived.
The ancient Romans believed the
quince had medicinal and mysticalpowers because it had been held sacredNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 52
Water (%) 84
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 14
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 181
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 16
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 4 RE
Vitamin C 14
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1 fruit, raw (92 g)Fruits 205
Varieties
Several varieties of rambutan are available
at tropical markets.  They vary in shapefrom round to slightly ellipsoid and incolor from green to yellow, orange, andred. The Thai green rambutan has athinner rind and a more delicate flavorthan the others.
Origin & botanical facts
Rambutan is indigenous to Malaysia and
Indonesia and is distributed throughoutthe tropical regions of southeast Asia.Internationally, Malaysia, Thailand, andIndonesia are the leaders in rambutanexport, and Singapore consumes morethan 60 percent of the fruit.  Because ofthe short shelf life of the fruit, the marketfor fresh rambutan is concentrated inAsia.  Domestically, rambutans are grownin Hawaii; however, restrictions onimports to the continental United Stateslimit the market for fresh Hawaiianrambutans.
The rambutan tree, which reaches
heights of 8 to 15 feet, is slightly shorterNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 62
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 16
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 17
Iron 0
Zinc 0.1
Manganese 0.5
Potassium 32
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 7
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 4
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup canned in syrup, drained (75 g)RAMBUTAN
Family  Sapindaceae
Scientific name Nephelium lappaceum
Common name rambutanNutrient Composition
The fresh fruit has not been analyzed for
nutrient content.  Canned rambutanprovides a small amount of vitamin C.  The rambutan is a rubbery red fruit about the size and shape of a golf ball.  Short,
flexible, curved spines give the fruit its name, which means “hairy” in Malay.Underneath the spiny shell is a sweet, juicy, translucent flesh similar to that of the lychee fruit.  Another similarity to lychees is the oneshiny seed in the center of the flesh of the rambutan.
than the lychee tree but bears considerable
resemblance to its well-known cousin.The rambutan flowers in terminal clustersthat give rise to “bouquets” of fruits.These flowers are used decoratively infloral arrangements.  However, unlike thelychee tree, the rambutan is strictly trop-ical and requires well-irrigated soil toflourish.
Uses
The numerous spines of rambutans
provide a large surface area for dehydra-tion.  To prevent this moisture loss (whichresults in darkening of the color), the fruitshould be refrigerated in sealed plasticbags. Under these conditions, rambutanscan maintain their bright color for up to12 days. To eat the fruit, it is necessaryto cut around the middle of the spinyshell with a knife and peel the shell awayto reveal the pale, juicy flesh.  The seedsshould not be ingested. Canned rambu-tans, which retain the flavor and textureof the fresh fruit, are available in specialtyfood stores.206 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Rhubarb is available in two main types,
each of which includes many species anddozens of varieties.  Hothouse-grownrhubarb has pink or light red stalks andyellow leaves, and field-grown rhubarbhas dark-red stalks and green leaves.  Thehothouse variety has a milder flavor andis less stringy.
Origin & Botanical facts
Much of the history of cultivation of
rhubarb is related to its use as a medicinalplant.  The earliest recorded use of rhubarbfor medicinal purposes appeared in 2700
B.C.  Marco Polo was the first to introduce
rhubarb to Europe.  Although rhubarbstalks were eaten in eastern T urkey as earlyas the 13th century, it was not until the18th century that Europeans began touse rhubarb as a food.  By 1830, rhubarbhad become a popular winter vegetablein the London markets.  In the late 18thor early 19th century, seeds and rootstockof rhubarb were brought to New England,Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 13
Water (%) 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 52
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 176
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 9
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 6 RE
Vitamin C 5
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 4 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, raw (61 g)RHUBARB
Family  Polygonaceae
Scientific name Rheum officinale, Rheum
palmatum, Rheum rhaponticum
Common name rhubarb, rheum
♥Contains some vitamin Csweet fruits such as strawberries decreases
the amount of sweetener needed andhence the number of calories.  Cookingcauses rhubarb to turn brown, but thiscan be prevented by the addition of acooked beet to the pot.  Aluminum orcast iron saucepans should not be usedto cook rhubarb because the acid in thevegetable will blacken the pot and therhubarb.
Nutrient composition
Raw rhubarb contains some vitamin C.
where it was cultivated and began to
appear in Massachusetts produce marketsby the 1820s.
Rhubarb is a large, leafy perennial that
can grow to 10 feet.  It sends out thick,brown, branching roots.  The field-grownvariety grows to only 3 feet and has redroots.  Rhubarb is a heat-intolerant, cool-season crop that is grown in fields andhothouses throughout Washington,Oregon, and Michigan.
Uses
Rhubarb is available frozen, canned, or
fresh, sold as loose stalks or bagged.  Mostcooks prefer to use the fresh stalks.  Theleaves should be cut off before storing thestalks in plastic bags.  They will stay freshin the refrigerator for about a week. 
Rhubarb is too tart to eat raw. Instead,
the stalks are sliced thinly or diced, bakedor stewed, and then sweetened. Becauserhubarb becomes slightly sweeter whencooked, sweeteners should be added aftercooking.  Cooked rhubarb may besweetened with sugar, honey, maple syrup,orange or pineapple juice, or berrypreserves.  Combining rhubarb withAlthough rhubarb is botanically a vegetable, it is used as a fruit, sometimes even
referred to as “pie plant” because of its frequent use as pie filling.  Except for itspink color, rhubarb is similar in appearance to celery.  The acidity and intensity of flavor vary, and young stalks are more tender than older stalks.  The roots andleaves of rhubarb are not eaten because they contain significant amounts of oxalic acid and are highly poisonous.Fruits 207
Varieties
The extensive cultivation of the sapodilla
in India has resulted in numerous varieties.Brown Sugar produces fragrant, juicyfruits whose flesh is pale brown and richlysweet.  The flesh of the Prolific variety islight pinkish tan, mildly fragrant, smooth-textured, and sweet.  Russel bears largefruits that are rich and sweet, but it is nota prolific producer.  A new selection,Tikal, yields fruits that have an excellentflavor but are smaller.
Origin & botanical facts
The sapodilla plant is believed to have
originated in the Yucatán peninsula ofMexico, northern Belize, and northeastGuatemala.  The plant was highly prizedby the Aztecs, who called the fruit“tzapotl,” from which the Spanish derivedthe name sapodilla.  The plant is nowgrown in almost all the tropical and sub-tropical regions of Africa, Asia, the EastIndies, and the Americas.  The mainproducers are the Central American coun-tries, Australia, India, Indonesia, and, inthe United States, California and Florida.
Equally at home in humid and rela-
tively dry environments, the sapodilla treeis a slow-growing evergreen that can reachNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 141
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 9
Fat (grams) 2
Carbohydrate (grams) 34
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 36
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 328
Magnesium 20
Phosphorus 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 10 RE
Vitamin C 25
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 24 μg
Vitamin E 0
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SAPODILLA
Family  Sapotaceae
Scientific name Manilkara zapota
Common name sapodilla
♥High in vitamin C and fiber
Nutrient composition
Sapodilla is high in vitamin C and in
dietary fiber.
up to 100 feet in height.  The tree bears
small, ball-shaped white flowers borneon slender stalks at the leaf bases.  Aresinous sap called “chicle” was oncecollected from sapodilla tree trunks formaking chewing gum. This practice haslargely been replaced by the use of syn-thetic ingredients.  The mature sapodillatree can yield from 2,000 to 3,000 fruitsin a single year.  Because the fruits areeasily perishable and fragile, they do notship well and therefore are relativelyunknown outside their areas of origin.
Uses
Because the high tannin and latex contents
of unripe fruits make them astringent andunpalatable, sapodillas should be eatenonly when ripe.  Unripe sapodilla fruitsshould be left to ripen at room tempera-ture and refrigerated after ripening.  Thesapodilla is best eaten raw and chilled, bycutting in half and spooning the pulp outof the skin.  It can be added to salads ordesserts such as ice cream and sorbet.  InMalaysia, the fruit is stewed with limejuice or fried with ginger.  In India, it iseaten as a dried fruit.
The sapodilla is nearly round and about 2 to 4 inches in diameter.  Its thin,brownish skin is easy to peel when the fruit is ripe.  The translucent flesh has a sweet flavor reminiscent of honey and apricots and a “melt in the mouth” texture.  The center of the fruit contains about 3 to 12 hard, shiny black seeds.
SERVING
SIZE:
1 fruit, raw (170 g)208 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The size and flavor of tamarinds are
determined by their variety.  Indianvarieties have long pods with 6 to 12 seeds,and the W est Indian and American
varieties have shorter pods containingonly 3 to 6 seeds.  Sweeter pulp is foundin selected varieties such as the MakhamWaan from Thailand and the ManilaSweet from the United States Departmentof Agriculture’s subtropical horticultureresearch unit in Miami.
Origin & botanical facts
The tamarind, also known as “Indian
date,” is one of the few fruits native toAfrica that is enjoyed in the cuisines ofmany other continents.  In China, it iscalled Asam koh; in Vietnam, it is calledMe; in France, Tamarin; in Cambodia,Ampil khui or tum; in Thailand, Makkham; and in Italy and Spain, Tamarindo.Although the tamarind is native to tropicalAfrica and grows wild throughout theSudan, the fruit has been cultivated inIndia for centuries.  During the 16thcentury, the fruit was brought to theAmericas, and it is now widely grown inNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 48
Water (%) 31
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 13
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 15
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese –
Potassium 126
Magnesium 18
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 0
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
10 fruits (20 g)TAMARIND
Family  Leguminosae
Scientific name T amarindus indica
Common name tamarind, Indian datea flavoring in East Indian and Middle
Eastern dishes, in much the same waylemon juice is used in Western cuisine.Tamarind’s sweet-sour flavor combineswell with the spicy flavor of chili in theThai and Vietnamese cuisines, whereunripe pods are used in soups and stews.In Indian cooking, tamarind is used as aseasoning in lentil and bean dishes and inthe dish called “vindaloo.”  Tamarindsyrup, which can be found in Dutch,Indonesian, and East Indian markets, isused to flavor soft drinks.
Nutrient composition
In the amounts customarily eaten,
tamarind is not a significant source ofnutrients.Mexico and Central and South America.
Belize, Brazil, Guatemala, and India arethe major commercial producers oftamarind worldwide.  The tree is a slow-growing, long-lived evergreen with supplebranches and bright-green leaves thatappear in pairs, 1 to 2-1/2 inches inlength, and fold up at night.  Under favor-able conditions, the tree may grow up to80 feet tall and 20 to 35 feet wide.  Insevere drought, the leaves often drop offthe tree.  A young tree bears fruit within4 years and continues to fruit for up to60 years.  Tamarind fruits may be left onthe tree for up to 6 months after maturitywithout loss of moisture.
Uses
Tamarind is available in Indian and Asian
markets as a fresh fruit, as a concentratedpulp with seeds, as a paste, as whole podsdried into “bricks,” and as a powder.Tamarind has a variety of uses in cooking.The immature fruit can be roasted andserved as a “vegetable,” or it can be usedto season rice, fish, or meat.  Ripe tamarindis eaten fresh or made into sauces, chutneys,or curry dishes.  It is also one of the manyingredients in Worcestershire sauce.Tamarind pulp concentrate is often used asThe tamarind is a brown, flat, irregularly curved pod about 3 to 8 inches long
with a sour, fruity taste.  The pod may have as many as 12 large, flat, glossy seeds
embedded in a brown, edible pulp.  As the pod matures, it fills out somewhat andthe juicy, acerbic pulp turns brown or reddish brown.  The sweet, tart taste of thepulp is the result of its high content of both acid and sugar; however, the pulp becomes extremely sour when dried.  The shells become brittle and crack readily when the fruit is fully ripe.  Fruits 209
Tangerine
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 37
Water (%) 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 12
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 132
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 8
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 77 RE
Vitamin C 26
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 17 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:1 medium, raw
(84 g)is a refreshing thirst quencher, either alone
or combined in a blender with other freshfruits.  Tangerines can be substituted fororanges in various dishes.  Meat, fish, andpoultry can be marinated in tangerinejuice before grilling, and tangerine juicepoured over freshly sliced fruit helps keepthe fruit from turning brown and adds adistinctive flavor.  Tangerines also makean excellent marmalade.
Nutrient composition
Although tangerines have about 43 percent
less vitamin C than oranges, they are stillan excellent source for this vitamin.Tangerines also contain more vitamin A(carotenes). The tangerine is a citrus fruit, usually round and about 2 1/2 inches in diameter, 
smaller than the orange.  Its rough, fragrant rind is generally orange or red-orange,thin, and loose on the fruit, so that it peels very easily.  Inside, numerous fibers loosely hold the 8 to 15 easily separated segments, or carpels, that contain the juice sacs and white seeds.  The center is hollow. Although the terms “tangerine” and “mandarin orange” are sometimes used interchangeably, tangerines actually are a subgroup of the mandarin.
were crossed with other citrus fruits, pro-
ducing numerous hybrids such as thetangelo (a cross between a tangerine anda grapefruit) and the tangor (a hybrid ofa tangerine and an orange).
The tangerine tree is an evergreen that
grows to a height of about 10 feet.  Thefive-petaled tangerine blossoms are whiteand fragrant.  It takes 6 to 10 monthsfrom the time the blooms appear untilthe fruit is ready for harvest.  Tangerinesgrow year-round in warmer climates, andthey are a traditional Christmas or NewYear treat in some parts of the world.
Uses
Tangerines are always picked when they
are ripe, so they are ready for immediateconsumption.  Fruits should be heavy fortheir size and free of bruises.  Color is nota reliable indicator of the quality of tan-gerines. The fruit is most often eaten as asnack or dessert or used in green salad orfruit salad.  Tangerine slices also make anattractive garnish for cakes and otherdesserts.  Freshly squeezed tangerine juiceVarieties
The most popular variety of tangerine in
the United States is the Dancy, a verysweet fruit with a red-orange color and amellow flavor.  Honey tangerines, withtheir slightly green-tinged peel, are true totheir name.  They have a high sugarcontent and a rich taste.  The Fallglo is alarge tangerine with dark-orange rind andflesh.  T wo smaller sized varieties are theClementine, also called the Algerian tan-gerine, and the Sunburst, which has athin skin and deep-orange flesh.
Origin & botanical facts
Tangerines are native to China, but today
they are grown all over the world.  In theUnited States, the leading producers areCalifornia, Arizona, and Florida.
The name “tangerine” is derived from
the ancient, walled Moorish town ofTangier in northern Morocco, where thefruit grows in abundance.  As the culti-vation of tangerines was carried aroundthe globe, the original mandarin orangesFamily  Rutaceae
Scientific name Citrus reticulata
Common name tangerine
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of vitamin A 
(carotenes)211
Vegetables
Vegetables and other foods of plant origin were the primary source of sustenance for early humans.
The plant foods that we call vegetables came under cultivation later than the grains and legumes.
Less protein- and carbohydrate-dense than the grains and legumes, vegetables have always served more
as accompaniments or accessory ingredients than as staples.  Some fragrant, highly flavored vegetables,such as scallions, garlic, ginger, parsley, basil, oregano, fenugreek, and dill, are really used as herbsand spices in sparing amounts as flavorings for other foods.  Only a few of these “vegetables” aredescribed in this section.  Other herbs and spices are discussed on pages 363 to 375. 
Some plant foods that we consider vegetables are, botanically, fruits (for example, avocado,
squash, cucumber, olives, tomatoes, and eggplant), that is, edible flesh surrounding seeds.  Nevertheless,the term “vegetable” has come to denote plant foods eaten as side dishes or used in the preparationof any part of the meal except dessert.  Vegetables tend to be less sweet than foods considered fruits.In addition, some foods that are served as vegetables are really grains (corn), legumes (green beans,lima beans, peas), or fungi (mushrooms, truffles).  So what is a vegetable, really? A vegetable is essen-tially any edible part of the plant (leaves, roots or tubers, and stalks) except, in most cases, the fruit.Multiple parts of some plants are eaten as separate vegetables with very different nutrient contents.The most common example is beet roots and their greens.
Vegetables contribute significant amounts of vitamins, minerals, soluble and insoluble fiber,
and other phytonutrients to our diets.  The Dietary Guidelines for Americans advise us to eat awide variety of vegetables and fruits every day, because the nutrient content varies considerablyfrom one to another.  (For a discussion of the Dietary Guidelines and the 5 a Day program, seeChapter 1, page 8.)  With the exception of olives and avocados, which are really fruits, few vegetables,by themselves, provide significant amounts of fat.  The fat provided by olives and avocados is highin monounsaturated fatty acids, which may help prevent heart disease (see Chapters 2 and 3).  
To assist you in menu planning, the following section provides information regarding the nutrient
content of many vegetables.
The tables of nutrient values are based on serving sizes specified by the U.S. Department 
of Agriculture Food Guide Pyramid.  Nutrient values are rounded (milligrams and microgramstend to be rounded to one decimal point, grams are rounded to whole numbers).  Nutrientclaim statements listed beneath the common name of each vegetable are based on theserving size specified and the definitions in Chapter 4 (see sidebar:Nutrient Claims, page 92).  For example, asparagus is consid-ered a good source of vitamin C, because it provides about 18percent of the Daily Value for vitamin C.  A food that is highin a particular nutrient provides 20 percent or more of theDaily Value for that nutrient per serving.
See the Appendix, Nutrients in Foods, page 434, and
Phytochemical Contents of Selected Foods, page 484, for amore complete listing of nutrient and phytonutrient contentsof selected vegetables.212 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 14
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) -
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 138
Iron 2
Zinc 1
Manganese 1
Potassium 423
Magnesium 36
Phosphorus 48
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 183 RE
Vitamin C 27
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 37 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup leaves, 
cooked (66 g)AMARANTH
Nutrient Composition
Amaranth is a nutrient-dense food.  One-
half cup of cooked leaves is high invitamin A and vitamin C and is a goodsource of calcium.  Amaranth is cultivated as both a vegetable and a cereal grain.  The upright
herbaceous plant usually reaches 6 to 7 feet in height but may grow to 13 feet in favorable environments.  The foliage varies in shape and color, although the leaves of most varieties are large, broad, and dark green with deep purplish veins.  The flowers are small, green, and clover-like.  The leaves from most varieties are edible and are delicious when cooked.  The tiny grain is very nutritious.  (See Grains, page 272, for a discussion of the grain.)
Amaranths are hot weather plants  that
thrive best in well-fertilized, well-irrigatedraised beds in sunny areas.  Amaranthgreens are harvested 4 to 6 weeks after theplanting season.  They are transported tothe market packed in ice and are sold inbunches.  Once considered a weed in theUnited States, amaranth is now consumedas a vegetable green.
Uses
Young amaranth leaves are preferred for
cooking.  The leaves wilt easily and havea very short shelf life.  They must berefrigerated or kept in ice water to retaintheir freshness and crispness.  Amaranthleaves can be boiled, steamed, or stir-friedas a side dish to accompany meats, fish,or other vegetables.  As a grain, amaranthis mostly ground into flour and used tomake breads, pasta, pastries, and cereals.The flour is also available commercially.Varieties
The genus Amaranthus includes a number
of amaranth species.  The common typesinclude tampala, hon-moi-toi, bush greens,pigweed, Chinese spinach, and wildamaranth, some of which are edible andsome not. Amaranth gangeticus , one of the
edible varieties, is available in the UnitedStates as the green-leafed tampala.  Thered-leafed amaranth, known as Amaranth
tricolor L., is also available, as is another
familiar type called Joseph’s Coat.
Origin & Botanical Facts
Reports of the existence of amaranth date
back to the 2nd century A.D.  The  grain
was a staple of the Aztec diet and was usedin religious ceremonies until its cultivationwas outlawed by the Spanish conquerors.Amaranth was brought to Asia after the15th century and was cultivated in Chinaand India.  Today, China and CentralAmerica are the world’s leading suppliers.Family Amaranthaceae
Scientific name Amaranthus dubius
Common name amaranth
♥Cooked amaranth leaves are 
high in vitamin A, vitamin C, and 
potassium
♥Amaranth leaves are a good source 
of calciumNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 60
Water (%) 84
Dietary fiber (grams) 6
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 13
Protein (grams) 4
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 54
Iron 2
Zinc 1
Manganese 0
Potassium 425
Magnesium 72
Phosphorus 103
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 22 RE
Vitamin C 12
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 61 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1 artichoke (120 g)ARTICHOKE
Vegetables 213
The artichoke plant is a member of the thistle or sunflower family.  The cones, 
or spherically shaped buds, are enclosed by overlapping outer scales (bracts) andare edible at the base.  At the center of the bud is an inedible thistle (choke).  The edible “heart” of an artichoke is the round, tender, firm base of the bud that is revealed after pulling off the petals.  Commercially sold artichoke hearts are the tender central portions of small artichokes that have almost no choke.  Their flavor is delicately nutty and slightly bitter.
outdoor farmers’ markets and can be
dried for use in flower arrangements.  Thesize of an artichoke bud is determined bythe stalk on which it grows and is notindicative of quality.  Thick stalks, whichare usually concentrated around the centerof the plant, produce large artichokes, andthe thinner side stalks produce smallerartichokes.
Uses
Artichokes picked in the fall or winter
months may have bronze-tipped leavesor a slightly gray tint, which is a sign ofexposure to frost. However, this shouldnot affect the flavor of the artichoke.Squeezing the artichoke slightly shouldelicit a squeak if the leaves are still plumpand crisp. Although the artichoke lookstough and hardy, it should be kept in therefrigerator for no more than 4 or 5 days.A sprinkle of water in a plastic bag willhelp maintain the moisture of the arti-choke, but it should not be trimmed, cut,or washed before storing. Artichokes aremost often boiled or steamed and can beVarieties
The most popular variety of artichoke is
the Green Globe, which is usually solidgreen.  Other varieties, rarely seen in theU.S. marketplace, include the Violettaand the Purple Roscoff, which have hintsof purple either on the scales or the chokeitself.
Origin & botanical facts
The artichoke is native to the eastern
Mediterranean region. Its use was docu-mented by the ancient Greeks andRomans thousands of years ago.  Today,most of the European supply of artichokesis still grown by the countries surround-ing the Mediterranean Sea. Artichokeswere introduced to the United States inthe 19th century by European immi-grants and soon found their way to themidcoast region of California, where mostof the domestic crop is cultivated today.
An artichoke is an immature bud that,
if left to bloom, boasts a bright-purple,thistle-like flower that can be found atFamily Compositae
Scientific name Cynara scolymus
Common name globe artichoke
♥High in vitamin C and fiber
♥A good source of folateeaten hot or cold.  Each petal is pulled
off and the base is dipped into melted
butter or lemon juice.  Only the tenderportion at the base of the petal is edible.
Underneath the rough outer petals, thethinner rose-colored petals can be bittenoff or removed to find the choke. Afterremoving the choke, the heart can beeaten whole.  The hearts also can beadded to pasta sauces or green salads andused to top pizzas.  Whole steamed arti-chokes can be filled with well-seasonedstuffing and served as is or baked.
Nutrient composition
The artichoke is high in vitamin C and
dietary fiber and is a good source of folate.214 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 5
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 32
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 74
Magnesium 9
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 47 RE
Vitamin C 3
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 19 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1 cup, raw (20 g)ARUGULA
Varieties
The arugula can be divided into smooth-
edged or serrated-leafed varieties.  Somearugula varieties are wild, although mostare cultivated.  The flavor varies depend-ing on variety.
Origin & Botanical facts
Arugula belongs to the Cruciferae family
and is a close relative of the mustard.Ancient Egyptians and Romans consideredarugula leaves in salads to be an aphrodisiac.It is a minor crop in the southeastern UnitedStates, grown to a limited extent commer-cially and in home vegetable gardens.
Seeds often are listed in seed catalogs as"roquette" under the category of herbs.A cool season vegetable best grown inFlorida during the fall, winter, and spring,it matures from seed in 2 to 3 months.Periods of very warm temperatures causeit to bolt (go to seed) rather quickly.  Fewpests attack the arugula.Uses
The freshest, crispest leaves free of brown
spots should be chosen.  Arugula should beused as soon as possible after purchasing.If necessary, after removing any wiltedleaves, the remaining unwashed leavescan be refrigerated for no more than 2 daysin a plastic bag.  The zesty leaves can beused raw in salads by themselves or tossedwith other greens.  Arugula also can beadded to soups or lightly cooked andserved as a side dish.  The arugula is widelyconsumed in the Middle East as a garnishon meats and sandwiches.  Tiny arugulablossoms also can be added to salads.
Nutrient composition
Arugula provides some vitamin A.Arugula is an annual that grows 8 to 24 inches high. It has dull- or shiny-
green, deeply cut, compound leaves that are edible and have a distinctivespicy, pungent flavor resembling horseradish.  The vegetable was formerlycalled roquette (the French word for rocket), 
but the term "arugula" is now becoming more common.
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Eruca vesicaria sativa
Common name arugula, Italian cress,
rocket, roquette, tira, white pepper,garden rocket
♥Provides some vitamin A
Varieties
T wo basic varieties of asparagus, white and
green, are cultivated.  The green variety isthe only one grown on a commercial scalein the United States, whereas the white ispreferred in Europe. White asparagus isproduced by banking soil against the plantto keep out sunlight, which otherwisewould turn the stalks green.  Also available,although not common, is a violet variety,with pinkish purple shoots and tips.
Origin & botanical facts
Asparagus was first cultivated in Greece
about 2,500 years ago.  In fact, the nameasparagus is Greek for “stalk” or “shoot.”The ancient Greeks believed that asparagushad medicinal qualities and could curetoothaches and bee stings.  The cultiva-tion of asparagus was adopted by theRomans, who carried it throughoutEurope and Great Britain.  From there,its popularity spread to the rest of theworld.  T raditionally, asparagus was aNorthern Hemisphere crop, but today itis cultivated worldwide.  The UnitedStates is the world’s largest supplier ofasparagus, with most cultivation con-centrated in California.
The asparagus plant is a perennial butrequires three seasons to mature.  In itsfirst season, a crown forms with 6 inchesof root.  In its second season, the crowndevelops into a fern.  Asparagus can beharvested in its third season, but the plantdoes not reach its prime until 6 to 8 yearsof age.  At peak age, an asparagus fieldcan yield up to 2 tons per acre.  Becauseits growing season is short and it must beharvested by hand, asparagus can be expen-sive. Asparagus appears in Americanmarkets as early as February, when thefirst California crops are harvested, butthe peak season in the West is from lateApril to late May and, elsewhere in theUnited States, from May through July.Throughout the rest of the year, freshasparagus may be available from Mexicoand South America.
Uses
Asparagus stalks of similar width with
tightly closed tips should be selected.Young asparagus is thinner and generallymore tender. Fresh asparagus should bestored in the refrigerator with the cut endsimmersed in water and should be usedwithin a day or two.  
Fresh asparagus is best steamed or
microwaved until just crisp-tender.Steaming should be done quickly, withthe spears in an upright position to heatthe stalks evenly.  The spears also can beAsparagusVegetables 215
Nutrient Content
6 spears, 
4 spears, cooked
raw (1/2 cup)
(64 g) (72 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 14 22
Water (%) 92 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3 4
Protein (grams) 1 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 13 18
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 175 144
Magnesium 11 9
Phosphorus 36 49
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 37 RE 49 RE
Vitamin C 8 10
Thiamin 0.1 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1 0.1
Niacin 1 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0
Folate 82 μg 131 μg
Vitamin E 1 0Family Liliaceae
Scientific name Asparagus officinalis
Common name asparagus
♥High in folate
♥A good source of vitamin C
♥Contains glutathione, an antioxidant
that promotes healthroasted briefly in the oven with a little
olive oil.  Cooked asparagus is best servedimmediately and simply, without richsauces.  Asparagus spears also can be cutinto diagonal pieces and stir-fried.
Asparagus is also available canned or
frozen.  Frozen spears are closer to freshspears in flavor and nutrition.  The cannedvariety is less nutritious.
Nutrient composition
Asparagus is a good source of vitamin C
and is an excellent source of folate.  It alsocontains glutathione, an antioxidant thatpromotes health.Asparagus is a member of the lily family and is related to onions, leeks, and garlic.
It is cultivated for its edible young shoots, which are long and unbranched withcompact, pointed tips made of tiny leaves.plastic and refrigerated up to a week.  The
shoots also can be blanched and frozenfor up to a year.  Fresh shoots should beboiled in one or two changes of plain orslightly salted water until tender, thenhusked and sliced lengthwise.  Cannedor frozen bamboo shoots should berinsed, heated, and served as is or stir-fried with meats and other vegetables.The tender parts also can be used in salads.
Nutrient composition
Cooked bamboo shoots are a source of
potassium.216 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Although the bamboo is often thought to be a tree, it is actually a type of ever-
green perennial grass that is woody when mature but whose young shoots areedible.  The mature stalks are characterized by green internodes ribbed withcream-colored, brown-speckled sheaths and hanging leaves up to 8 inches longand 3/4 inch wide. Fresh bamboo shoots are light yellow or brown, purple at theroot end, and white at the stalk end.  The cooked young shoots are crisp, fragrant,and mild in flavor.
Varieties
The dozens of varieties of bamboo can be
classified in several ways.  All bamboo canbe divided into those that grow uncon-trollably (the invasive type) and those thattend to clump.  Bamboo also can be dividedinto those that are cold-hardy and thosethat are tropical and sub-tropical.  Finally,within each of the above categories, thenumerous species can be classified by theirmature size (giant, large, medium, anddwarf).  Bamboo grown in the UnitedStates is almost exclusively the cold-hardyPhyllostachys species, most of which are
invasive.
Origin & botanical facts
Bamboo is native to China, Japan, southeast
Asia, India, Africa, South America, andparts of Mexico. Although bamboo shootshave been an important vegetable in Asiandiets for thousands of years, Asian-grownbamboo is mostly consumed locally, withonly small quantities processed for export.Bamboo is still a rare vegetable in Westerncountries, used exclusively in Orientaldishes.  However, Europe and the UnitedStates are beginning to develop bamboocrops.Bamboo grows by sending out new
rhizomes (underground, horizontal stems)from which new shoots emerge.  The con-stant appearance of new shoots and leavesgives the plant its evergreen appearance.The nutrients made by the leaves are storedin the rhizomes and then converted intothe following year’s new growth.  Becauselarge crops occur in alternate years, growersmaintain plants of various ages.  To keepthe shoots white, soil is sometimes piledagainst new growth areas to prevent themfrom developing chlorophyll.  
Nations that export bamboo shoots
may harvest cultivated plantations or nativeforests.  Unfortunately, lack of regulationhas allowed excessive harvesting, whichhas led to a decline in some native forests.In contrast, because many hardy bamboospecies spread uncontrollably, U.S. homegardeners who want to grow bambooshould construct an underground barrier
wall to prevent its spread.
Uses
The tenderest shoots are those about 6
inches or less in height.  Fresh shootsshould be stored in cold water for nomore than 2 days, or wrapped tightly inNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 7
Water (%) 95
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 320
Magnesium 2
Phosphorus 12
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 0
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 1 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, cooked (60 g)Bamboo
Family Graminaceae
Scientific name Phyllostachys 
species , Bambusa species
Common name bamboo
♥A source of potassiumVegetables 217
Beets
Nutrient Content
1/2 cup
sliced 1/2 cup 
beets, greens,
cooked cooked
(85 g) (72 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 37 19
Water (%) 87 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 8 4
Protein (grams) 1 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 14 82
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 259 655
Magnesium 20 49
Phosphorus 32 30
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE 367 RE
Vitamin C 3 18
Thiamin 0 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0.2
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0 0.1
Folate 68 μg 10 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Family Chenopodiaceae
Scientific name Beta vulgaris
Common name beet
♥Beets are a good source of folate
♥Cooked beet greens are high in vitamin
A (beta-carotene) and vitamin C and
are a good source of riboflavin andmagnesiumBeets are round, firm root vegetables with edible, leafy green tops.  Although the
most common root color is bright red, colors may vary from deep red to yellow or white, and one variety displays concentric rings of red and white.  When cooked, they have a tender-crisp texture and a sweet flavor.of stem should be left on.  Beets also keep
their color better if an acid ingredient suchas vinegar or lemon juice is added duringcooking.  Canned beets are available, butfresh beets are crisper and more flavorful.Beets are used to make the traditionalRussian soup borscht, which is coloredred by the beet juice.
Nutrient composition
Cooked beets are a good source of folate.
Cooked beet greens are high in vitamin A(beta-carotene) and vitamin C.  They arealso a good source of riboflavin and mag-nesium.
Colorado, New Jersey, Ohio, and Texas.The beet is a cool-weather biennial that iscultivated as an annual. Beets are grownfrom seeds sown in early spring and areready to harvest 60 to 80 days after plant-ing.  Beets are not harmed by frost, buthot weather can toughen the r oots. Thus,
in regions with hotter summers, they are
planted in early fall for winter and springharvest.  Consequently, fresh beets areavailable all year.
Uses
When buying beets with the leaves
attached, those with the youngest, freshestlooking leaves should be selected.Otherwise, avoid beets that are dried,cracked, or shriveled.  Large beets maybe tough, and small ones are the mosttender and flavorful.  Leaves should becrisp and should be rinsed well beforeusing.  Beets should be stored separatelyfrom the leaves in perforated plastic bagsin the refrigerator vegetable crisper. 
Beets can be grated and eaten raw in
salads, boiled, steamed, stewed, baked,sautéed, or pickled.  To preserve theircolor and nutrients, it is best not to peelbeets before cooking.  They should bescrubbed gently and at least a half inchVarieties
The garden or table beet is the type most
commonly grown for human consump-tion.  Three common varieties are theLutz salad leaf beet, the Detroit dark redbeet, and the Chioggia beet, an Italianfavorite with alternate red and white con-centric rings.  Another type of beet is thespinach or leaf beet, grown not for its rootbut for its leaves, which are better knownas Swiss chard.  A third type of beet, thesugar beet, is not grown as a vegetable.This beet contains twice the sugar of tablebeets and provides about a third of theworld’s sugar supply. This type of beetalso is used as fodder.
Origin & botanical facts
Modern varieties of beets are derived from
the sea beet, an inedible plant that growswild along the coasts of Europe, NorthAfrica, and Asia.  The garden beet has beencultivated for thousands of years.  In ancientGreece, beets were so highly valued that,according to myth, a beet was offered ona silver platter to Apollo at Delphi.  
Today, beets are grown in many regions
of the world.  The leading beet-producingregions of the United States are California,218 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Cucurbitaceae
Scientific name Momordica charantia
Common name bitter melon, balsam pear,
bitter cucumber, bitter gourd
♥High in vitamin C
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 12
Water (%) 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 6
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 198
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 22
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 7 RE
Vitamin C 20
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 32 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE: pods, 1/2 cup, 
cooked (62 g)BITTER MELON (BALSAM PEAR)
About 4 to 10 inches long, bitter melons are shaped like cucumbers and have
wrinkled, bumpy skin. The vegetable’s name is derived from its distinctive bittertaste, the result of a high quinine content.  The bitterness increases as the melonmatures; young, green melons have a delicate, sour flavor, whereas older (yellow) ones are very bitter and acrid.  When fully mature, the melon’s rind dries and splits lengthwise into three sections, revealing the bright-red arils that enclose the seeds.  Bitter melons are normally eaten as immature fruits, but some people prefer the bitter-tasting, more mature fruits.
Varieties
The bitter melon is a variety of squash.
A closely related variety, the balsam apple(Momordica balsamita ), bears fruits similar
to bitter melons except that they are egg-shaped and smaller, with smoother skin.Balsam apples, which have a taste similarto that of the bitter melon, are also cul-tivated, harvested, and prepared like thebitter melon.
Origin & botanical facts
Bitter melons originated in tropical India
and have been cultivated for centuriesthroughout Asia.
The bitter melon is an annual that
grows in tropical and subtropical areas.Reaching up to 30 feet in length, theplant grows as a vine with tendrils thatattach to plants or other objects for sup-port.  Although highly popular as a foodcrop in India, China, and southeast Asia,
bitter melons have  been introduced onlyrecently as a food item in U.S. markets.In this country, bitter melons are oftengrown on trellises and fences as decora-tive plants.
Uses
Bitter melons are available fresh from April
through September in Asian markets andalso are sold canned or dried.  They canbe refrigerated in a plastic bag for up to aweek.  When buying bitter melons, choosegreen ones if a less bitter taste is desiredor yellow ones for a stronger, more bitterflavor.  Before it is cooked, the fruit shouldbe cut lengthwise to remove the seeds andthe surrounding white fibers.  The skincan be either left intact or removed.  Bittermelons are always cooked before eating.In India, bitter melons are combined withpotatoes or lentils and seasoned withcumin and turmeric.  In China, they aresteamed or used as an ingredient in soup.They can be thinly sliced and stir-friedwith eggs, meats, or other vegetables.Stuffed with meat, shrimp, wood ears, and
thin rice noodles, bitter melons can be
braised in a light broth to make a bitter-sweet soup.  The young leaves of the plantcan be boiled and stir-fried like greens orused fresh in salads.
Nutrient composition
Bitter melons are high in vitamin C.  They
also contain many phytochemicals, includ-ing elasterol, lutein, and lycopene.  Theleafy tips are a good source of vitamin A.Vegetables 219
The broccoli plant is a dark-green vegetable with a firm stalk and branching arms
that end in florets.  The name comes from the Latin word brachium , meaning
“arm” or “branch,” or the Italian word broccolo , for 
“cabbage sprout.”  The edible portions are the florets and 6 to 8 inches of the supporting stem. Broccoli is closely related to cauliflower, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts.
Varieties
The most common type of broccoli in the
United States today is the sprouting, orItalian, green broccoli.  The light-greenstalks are topped by umbrella-shaped clus-ters of dark-green florets.  This variety isalso called the Calabrese, named after theItalian province in which it was first grown.Broccoli rabe, a distinct but related type,has smaller florets and a stronger flavor.
Origin & botanical facts
Broccoli dates back to the time of the
Roman Empire, when it was cultivatedfrom wild cabbage native to coastal Europe.It was brought to the United States in theearly 1900s by Italian immigrants tonorthern California.  Currently, 90 percentof the domestic commercial market issupplied by California producers.Although it is not a popular vegetableworld wide, broccoli began gaining pop-
ularity in the 1970s, when consumptionper person increased from about a halfpound per year to the current 4 1/2pounds.  Today, broccoli ranks 11thamong leading U.S. vegetable crops.The broccoli plant is an upright
annual, able to reach a height of 3 feet,with large spreading leaves.  Usuallygrown from seed, broccoli is harvested80 to 120 days after planting.  The con-sumed portion of broccoli is actually agroup of buds that are almost ready toflower.  Overmature broccoli is tough andwoody because the plant sugar is con-verted to lignin, a type of fiber that is notsoftened by cooking.
Uses
Broccoli with the tiniest buds and the
darkest blue-green color should beselected.  Avoid those with a yellowishcast. Broccoli should be stored unwashedin an open bag in the refrigerator, becauseexcess moisture encourages the growth ofmold.  Before use, broccoli should be rinsedthoroughly under cold running water toremove any dirt.  Broccoli can be con-sumed raw as an appetizer with dip or insalads, or it can be cooked in a variety ofways.  Well-cooked broccoli should betender enough to yield to a fork, yet remaincrisp and bright.  Because the florets tendBroccoli
to cook faster than the stalks, stalks shouldbe split to expose more surface area, whichensures even cooking.  The florets alsomay be cut from the stalks and addedafter the stalks have been cooking for 2to 3 minutes.  Broccoli can be boiled,steamed, microwaved, stir-fried, or puréedand added to soups.
Nutrient composition
Broccoli is high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and vitamin C.  The vitamin Aand various phytochemicals, such as isoth-iocyanates, indoles, and bioflavonoids, inbroccoli may help prevent cancer.
Nutrient Content
1/2cup, cooked
1/2cup, (about 2
raw spears)
(44 g) (78 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 12 22
Water (%) 91 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 2 4
Protein (grams) 1 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 21 36
Iron 0 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 143 228
Magnesium 11 19
Phosphorus 29 46
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 68 RE 108 RE
Vitamin C 41 58
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0.1 0.1
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 31 μg 39 μg
Vitamin E 1 1Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea
Common name broccoli
♥High in vitamin A 
(beta-carotene) and vitamin C
♥A cruciferous  vegetable
that contains phytochemicals
that may help prevent cancer220 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Brussels sprouts look like miniature dark-green cabbages and are, in fact, related
to the cabbage.  The sprouts range from 1 to 1 1/2 inches in diameter.  As manyas a hundred of these ball-like sprouts may grow in bunches from a single, longplant stalk that is usually between 2 and 4 feet in height.  Brussels sprouts aresimilar to the cabbage in flavor but are milder and have a denser texture.
Varieties
Among the common varieties of Brussels
sprouts are the Noisette and BedfordFillbasket. The Rubine is a red-leafedvariety; the Mallard, Captain Marvel,Prince Marvel, Montgomery, and JadeCross are all hybrids. The Early Half Talis another variety.  
Origin & botanical facts
Brussels sprouts, named after the capital
of Belgium, are one of the few vegetablesthat originated in northern Europe.  Theywere first cultivated in Belgium in the16th century, introduced to France andEngland in the 19th century, and probablybrought to North America by Frenchsettlers, who grew them in Louisiana.  In
the United States, they are grown pri-marily along the east and west coastswhere summer daytime temperaturesaverage 65 degrees or less.  Brussels sproutsare grown from seed, and the first sproutsare ready to pick about 4 months afterthe seeds are sown.  The plant  continuesto produce sprouts for approximately 6weeks.  Brussels sprouts are very resistantto cold, and the tastiest sprouts are oftenthose that mature after the first fall frost.They are usually available throughout theyear.  The peak season is from late Augustthrough March.  California is the majorsupplier of Brussels sprouts in the UnitedStates.
Uses
Brussels sprouts are usually selected on
the basis of size and appearance.  Small,compact, fresh sprouts that are bright
green will have the freshest flavor and the
crispiest texture.  They may be stored ina loosely closed plastic bag in the refrig-erator for up to 5 days.  Any wilted oryellow outer leaves should be removedand the stems of the sprouts trimmed,although not flush with the bottoms,before cooking.  Cutting an “X” in thebase of the sprouts helps the heat pene-trate the solid core and allows the spr outs
to cook evenly.  Brussels sprouts can becooked in a variety of ways, although careNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 30
Water (%) 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 7
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 28
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 247
Magnesium 16
Phosphorus 44
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 56 RE
Vitamin C 48
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 47 μg
Vitamin E 1Brussels Sprouts
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea var.
gemmifera
Common name Brussels sprouts
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of folate and
vitamin A (beta-carotene)
♥A cruciferous vegetable that con-
tains phytochemicals that mayhelp prevent cancermust be taken to avoid overcooking,
which turns the stems mushy.  Sproutsmay be boiled, braised, steamed, ormicrowaved and can be seasoned withmustard, dill, caraway, poppy seeds, orsage leaves.  Brussels sprouts are a goodaccompaniment to strong-flavored meatsand cheeses.
Nutrient composition
Brussels sprouts are high in vitamin C and
are a good source of folate and vitamin A(beta-carotene).  They are cruciferousvegetables and contain phytochemicalsthat may help prevent cancer.
SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup, cooked (about 4 medium) (78 g)Vegetables 221
Cabbage
Nutrient Content
1 cup1/2cup
shredded, shredded,
raw (70 g) boiled (75 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 18 17
Water (%) 92 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4 3
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 33 23
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 172 73
Magnesium 11 6
Phosphorus 16 11
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 9 RE 10 RE
Vitamin C 23 15
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 30 μg 15 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea L.
Common name cabbage
♥High in vitamin C
♥A cruciferous vegetable that
contains phytochemicalscalled indoles that may helpprevent cancerCabbage is a leafy vegetable that grows in heads close to the ground.
The leaves may be loosely or tightly compacted and range from pale-green to dark purple-red, depending on the variety.
developed by northern European farmers
during the Middle Ages.  Because this typethrived through cold winters, it becamealmost as much a staple in the Europeandiet as potatoes and corn.  Cabbage is aninexpensive vegetable that is easy to growand stores well.  It is particularly popularin Germany, Austria, Poland, and Russia.
In the United States, the primary r egions
of cultivation are California, Florida,Georgia, New York, and Texas.
Cabbage is propagated from seed
sown first in a seedbed and then trans-planted after 1 to 2 months.  Tall varietiesmust be staked to prevent damage fromwind or heavy rain.  Cabbage is a rela-tively slow-growing crop.  Some varietiestake up to 200 days to mature.  Othervegetables that develop more quickly, suchas lettuce or green beans, may be sownbetween rows of cabbage plants.
Uses
Uncut cabbage can be stored for months
in perforated vegetable bags in the refrig-erator crisper.
Raw cabbage can be shredded for
salads and cole slaw.  Cooked cabbage hasa strong flavor and mushy consistencywhen overcooked, but it can be preparedVarieties
Of the hundreds of types of cabbage,
three are grown and sold in the UnitedStates:  green, red, and savoy.  Green cabbagehas smooth, green outer leaves and paleinterior leaves.  The three most commonlygrown varieties of green cabbage areDanish, with very compact, round or ovalheads, produced for sale in the late fall;Domestic, with looser heads of curledleaves; and Pointed, grown primarily inthe Southwest for the spring market, withsmall, conical heads and smooth leaves.Red cabbage has dark-red to purple leaveswith white veins.  R ed cabbage has a
tougher texture and a flavor that is similar
to but slightly sweeter than that of thegreen variety.  Savoy cabbage has pale,yellow-green, crinkled leaves forming aless compact, more oblong head.  Its flavortends to be milder than that of red orgreen cabbage.
Origin & botanical facts
The oldest accounts of cultivated cabbage
appear in Greek literature and date fromabout 600 
B.C.  However, the cabbage
eaten by the early Greeks and Romansappears to have been a loose-leaved, non-heading type.  Modern compact-headedvarieties with overlapping leaves wereso that its mild taste and crisp texture are
retained.  Cabbage can be microwaved,steamed, stir-fried, or added to soups andstews.  Individual cabbage leaves can beseparated and used to wrap a variety ofstuffings, such as meats and rice or othergrains.  Seasonings that work well withboth raw and cooked cabbage includecaraway, dill, mustard, and curry.
Nutrient composition
Cabbage is high in vitamin C.  As a
cruciferous vegetable, it contains signifi-cant amounts of nitrogen compoundscalled indoles, which are phytochemicalsthat may help prevent some types ofcancer.222 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
1 medium,1/2cup,
raw cooked 
(61 g) (78 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 26 35
Water (%) 88 87
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 3
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 6 8
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 16 24
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 1
Potassium 197 177
Magnesium 9 10
Phosphorus 27 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1,716 RE 1,915 RE
Vitamin C 6 2
Thiamin 0.1 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 1 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.2
Folate 9 μg 11 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Carrot
Nutrient composition
A medium-sized raw carrot is an excellent
source of  beta-carotene, which is con-verted into vitamin A.  Carrots are a rel-atively good source of fiber.  In additionto beta-carotene, carrots contain twoother carotenoids: alpha-carotene andlutein. The carotenoids, which are respon-sible for the bright-orange color of car-rots, have antioxidant properties and mayhelp prevent cancer and heart disease.Lutein also has been looked at for its rolein protecting the eye from free-radicaldamage and maintaining vision.  Cookingcarrots makes them more digestible andappears to increase the amount of vita-min A available for use in the body.However, the vitamin A content of freshor frozen carrots is twice that of cannedversions.
Family Umbelliferae
Scientific name Daucus carota
Common name carrot
♥High in vitamin A (carotenes)
♥Good source
of fiber
♥Contains phytochem-icals that may help preventcancer and heart disease
Varieties
Many varieties of carrots are grown
throughout the world. Colors range fromwhite to yellow to crimson. A carrot maybe as short as 3 to 6 inches and as long asseveral feet.  However, most carrots on theU.S. market today are orange and 7 to 9inches long.  Mini-peeled carrots are cutfrom the smaller, sweeter “caropak” carrots,which have been grown tightly togetherespecially for this purpose.  Despite pack-aging and labeling claims, mini-peeledcarrots are not baby carrots.  T rue babycarrots are carrots harvested earlier thanusual and do, in fact, look like miniaturecarrots.  They are often sold with their greentops still on them in specialty food stores.
Origin & botanical facts
The first carrots, which were white, purple,
and yellow, were cultivated in Afghanistanand then brought to the Mediterraneanarea.  Today's orange carrots descend fromDutch-bred carrots and have been grownin the United States since colonial times.Domestically, California produces about60 percent of the United States crop, 25percent of which goes into the production
of mini-peeled carrots.
Uses
Carrots should be firm and brightly col-
ored from top to bottom.  Near the leafycrown of the root, there may be a green-ish tinge, but dark or black coloring is anindication of age.  Keeping carrots refrig-erated in moisture-retaining packagingwill preserve them for up to a month.The green leaves should be twisted offbefore storage, because they wilt quick-ly and draw moisture from the carrots.Fruits that produce ethylene gas as theyripen, such as apples or pears, should notbe stored in the same bag with carrots.
With the exception of beets, carrots
contain more sugar than any other veg-etable. They are a satisfying snack wheneaten raw and are a tasty addition to avariety of mixed dishes.  Grated rawcarrots may be added to fruit or vegetablesalads, mixed with peanut butter as asandwich filling, or used in baking cakes,muffins, or breads.  Cooked carrotsenhance the flavor of casseroles, soups,and stews.  Puréed carrots may be usedin cookies, puddings, and soufflés.The carrot plant is a member of the parsley family,  characterized by light, feathery
leaves.  Other members of this family include fennel, dill, and celery.  The edible root of the plant is usually orange and shaped like a long cylindrical cone. A fibrous channel or core runs the length of the vegetable; usually, the smaller the core, the younger and sweeter the vegetable.Vegetables 223
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 83
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 20
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 8
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 140
Magnesium 11
Phosphorus 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 11
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 14 μg
Vitamin E 0Cassava
or stews.  West Indians cook bitter cassava
with brown sugar and spices to make acondiment called cassareep, available inCaribbean markets.  In addition to itsvaried uses in the human diet, cassava isused as animal feed and in many indus-trial applications.
Nutrient Composition
Cassava is composed mostly of carbohy-
drate and is a major source of calories inThird-World countries.The cassava is a root 2 to 3 inches in diameter and 6 to 12 inches long, covered
with a coarse, inedible brown skin. To help preserve the root, the skin is oftencoated with a shiny film of wax. The flesh of the tuber is white with thin veinsrunning through it and is potato-like in texture.
Family Euphorbiaceae
Scientific names Manihot esculenta Crantz
(Manihot ultissima Phol [sweet] ;
Manihot aipi Phol [bitter])
Common name yuca, tapioca, manioc,
apple
temperatures fall below 50° Fahrenheit).
Most cassava roots are harvested by hand,although Brazil has developed mechanicalharvesters.  Because the roots are extremelysensitive to physical damage, harvestingmust be done carefully. 
To increase the short shelf life of the
cassava further, the leaves are removed 2weeks before harvest.  In addition todipping the roots into wax, storing thenewly harvested roots in plastic bagsextends the shelf life by 3 to 4 weeks. 
Uses
Cassava should be refrigerated no more
than 4 days. The peeled cassava can beboiled and mashed, baked, or sliced andfried, identical to the cooking of potatoes.Alternatively, the peeled root can begrated and the starch extracted to makebreads, crackers, pasta, and tapioca pearls(a commercial product used to makepudding).  In Africa, the roots arefermented in water, after which they aremade into an alcoholic beverage; sun-dried for storage; or grated, formed intoa dough, and cooked alone or in soupsVarieties
Until recently, the many varieties of cassava
were divided into two main categories:bitter and sweet.  Because the bitter rootcontains substances that are converted totoxic cyanide compounds when the rootis cut, it must not be eaten raw; cookingdestroys these substances.  Although sweetcassava is believed to have low amounts ofthese potential toxins, taste is not a reliablepredictor of toxin content, and expertsrecommend that all cassava be cooked.
Origin & botanical facts
The cassava originated in Brazil, Paraguay,
and the Caribbean Islands, from whereit was introduced to Africa and the FarEast.  Africa is now the leading producer,and cassava is an important dietary staplethroughout the continent. In the UnitedStates, cassava is grown in Florida and isimported from Mexico, Central America,South America, and the Antilles.
Cassava is propagated from stem cut-
tings.  Ideal growing conditions includetemperatures between 77° and 86°Fahrenheit (the plants cease to grow ifSERVING
SIZE:
1/4 cup, raw (51 g)224 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea L.
(botrytis )
Common name cauliflower
♥High in vitamin C
♥A cruciferous vegetable that contains
phytochemicals that may help preventcancerAs their names imply, cauliflower and broccoflower are actually flowers.  The part
of the plant that is eaten is the head of underdeveloped, tender flower stems andbuds.  While growing, the head is surrounded by heavy green leaves that protect it from sunlight and discoloration.  Many of the leaves are trimmed off during preparation for shipment and sale.  Cauliflower has a strong odor when cooked and a rich, cabbage-like flavor.  Broccoflower is a hybrid of broccoli and cauliflower.Cauliflower
Nutrient Content
1/2cup,1/2cup,
raw (50 g) boiled (62 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 13 14
Water (%) 92 93
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3 3
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 11 10
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 152 88
Magnesium 8 6
Phosphorus 22 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE 1 RE
Vitamin C 23 27
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 29 μg 27 μg
Vitamin E 0 0tures and rich, fertile soil with good mois-
ture.  It is usually planted as an annual,but milder climates can support wintervarieties, so it is available year-round, withpeak seasons in spring and fall.  Caulifloweris propagated from seed, usually sownfirst in beds and then transplanted to thefield after 4 or 5 weeks.  The flower budforms on a single stalk and is surroundedby large, heavy green leaves that pr otect it
from the discoloring effect of sunlight.Heads are ready for harvest between 80and 110 days after transplantation. In thefield, many of the leaves are trimmed off,and the heads, which bruise easily, arepacked gently for shipping, usually inplastic wrap that has been perforated to
allow the escape of carbon dioxide, whichcan discolor the head and cause anunpleasant taste.
Uses
A cauliflower head should be unbruised,
firm, and uniformly cream-colored withouta trace of black, and it should be heavyfor its size.  It can be stored in perforatedplastic vegetable bags in the refrigeratorcrisper for several days.The raw florets are tasty in salads, as a
crunchy appetizer with dips, or pickled.Cauliflower can be boiled, steamed,microwaved, or baked.  It is a flavorfuladdition to soups and stews or to othervegetables such as carrots, tomatoes, peas,bell pepper, or broccoli.  Cauliflower alsoworks well on its own, seasoned withnutmeg, dillweed, chives, or almonds.Cauliflower is available fresh and frozen,but the processing required for freezingdestroys some nutrients and can turn theflorets watery in flavor and appearance.
Nutrient composition
Cauliflower is high in vitamin C.  As a
cruciferous vegetable, cauliflower containsphytochemicals that may help preventcancer.
Varieties
Cauliflower falls into three types.  The
most commonly grown and sold is thewhite cauliflower, which has creamy curdsand bright-green leaves.  The green varietyis actually the hybrid broccoflowerdeveloped about 10 years ago, which hasbright lime-green curds.  Less commonlyknown is the purple-headed cauliflower.
Origin & botanical facts
Cauliflower is native to the Mediterranean
region and Asia Minor, where it wascultivated more than 2,000 years ago.  Bythe 16th century, its cultivation hadspread throughout western Europe.  Inthe United States, cauliflower did notbecome an important vegetable until theearly part of the 20th century.  Today itis grown in numerous states.  Californiaand New York are the leading producers,and it is also grown in Arizona, Michigan,Oregon, Florida, Washington, and Texas.
Cauliflower requires cool tempera-Vegetables 225
Celeriac
Closely related to celery, celeriac (also
called celery root or celery knob) is aknobby, bulb-shaped root about the sizeof a baseball.  It has a rough brown skinand rootlets.  It has a crisp texture and anutty flavor that resembles that of strongcelery or parsley.
Varieties
Celeriac is available in three varieties:
Iram, a medium-sized, globe-shaped rootwith few side shoots; Marble Ball, around, white root; and Tellus, a quick-growing, round root with brownish redleaf stems.
Origin & botanical facts
A native of the Mediterranean region,
celeriac is a popular vegetable in Europe,particularly in France and Italy, but it isless well known in the United States. 
Celeriac is propagated from seed,
usually sown in pots or greenhouses inearly spring, and then transplanted to thefield in May.  It requires a fertile soil thatis rich in organic matter.  For a large corm(underground stem base) to develop, along growing season and plenty of waterare required.  Thus, celeriac thrives inmoist, temperate climates.  In midsum-mer, the outer leaves are removed, andthe plant is mulched or fertilized to assistgrowth and moisture retention.  Lateralshoots also are removed to create a singlecooked whole and then peeled, diced, or
puréed and added to soups, stews, andstir-fries or eaten alone with a bit of butteror margarine and fresh herbs.  In Europe,celeriac is often added to mashed potatoesand served with butter or cream sauce.Like celery, the celeriac root as well as thestalks are often used as a seasoning.
Nutrient composition
Raw celeriac is a good source of vitamin
C and provides some potassium andphosphorus. Family Umbelliferae
Scientific name Apium graveolens
Common name celeriac
♥Raw celeriac is a good source of
vitamin C and provides somepotassium and phosphorus
Nutrient Content
1/2cup, raw1/2cup,
(78 g) cooked (77 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 33 21
Water (%) 88 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 7 5
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 34 20
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 234 134
Magnesium 16 9
Phosphorus 90 51
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 0 RE
Vitamin C 6 3
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 1 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 6 μg 3 μg
Vitamin E 0 –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.growing point.  Celeriac is hardier than
celery and keeps well in winter if storedin a cool place.  Thus, it is available year-round, with a peak season lasting fromNovember through April.
Uses
Small to medium-sized celeriac roots that
are heavy for their size and free of cuts,bruises, and soft spots are the best. Theroots should be stored with their stalksintact in perforated plastic bags in therefrigerator crisper. 
Celeriac can be consumed either raw
or cooked. Regardless of how it is to beused, the root must be rinsed well andpeeled.  After it is peeled, the piecesshould be dropped into a bowl of acidu-lated water (water to which a few drops oflemon juice or vinegar have been added)to prevent the discoloration that occursfrom exposure to the air.  The raw rootcan be cut into sticks for dipping, or itcan be grated or julienned for salads.Celeriac can be boiled, braised, baked, orsteamed until it is tender.  It can be226 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 13
Water (%) 95
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 32
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 230
Magnesium 9
Phosphorus 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 10 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 22 μg
Vitamin E 0CElery
SERVING
SIZE:
2 stalks (80 g)Celery is a vegetable that is enjoyed for its crisp texture and distinctive flavor.  A
bunch of celery is actually a single stalk consisting of separate ribs, and the mosttender, inner ribs are called the hearts.  The crispness of celery comes from the rigidity of its cell walls and its high water content.  In fact, celery is mostly water, which makes it low in calories and an ideal snack food.
Varieties
Although celery is available in many colors,
most of the celery grown in the UnitedStates belongs to the green varieties, whichrange in shade from pale to dark and arereferred to as Pascal.  One common greenvariety is the American Green, also knownas the Tall Utah or Greensnap, which doesnot require blanching (the banking of soilagainst the plant to keep it from turningdark green upon exposure to sunlight).Other varieties of celery include the GiantPink, with pink or red stems and dark-green leaves; the Golden Self-Blanching,with pale, golden-yellow leaves and goldenstems; and the Ivory Tower, a fast-matur-ing, self-blanching variety with pale leaves.
Origin & botanical facts
Wild celery is a biennial or annual herb
native to southern Europe, Asia, and Africa,growing in marshes along the muddy banksof tidal rivers or in other saltwater areas.Although it resembles domestic celery, itis smaller, with a stronger, more pungentodor and flavor.  Before the familiar milder,thick-stalked forms were cultivated, celeryprobably was used solely as a seasoning and
medicinal herb.  Leafy cultivated varietiesmay date back 2,000 years or more, butstalk celery seems to have been grown firstin Italy in the 16th century.  In the 1690s,John Evelyn, an English diarist, describedcelery as a new vegetable.  Today, celery isgrown in Great Britain, India, the UnitedStates, and Canada.
Celery requires a moist, rich soil for
good growth.  It is especially successfulin low-lying, alkaline areas such as theeastern regions of Florida and GreatBritain.  Because of its high water content,celery requires large amounts of mois-ture; otherwise, the stalks become stringyand tough.  Celery is propagated fromseeds so tiny that it takes more than a mil-lion of them to add up to a pound.  Mostcommercially grown celery is planted inMarch or April, in greenhouses orseedbeds with controlled watering.
About 2 months after sowing, when
the seedlings are 4 to 6 inches tall, they aretransplanted to fields.  Varieties that requireblanching usually are planted in trenchesto facilitate the banking of the soil againstthe plants.  Three to 4 months after fieldplanting, celery is ready for harvesting.Uses
Celery that is light in color and shiny has
the best flavor.  Celery should be storedby the bunch in perforated plastic veg-etable bags in the refrigerator crisper.
Celery is a versatile vegetable.  Raw
celery adds crunch to chicken, seafood,egg, potato, and green salads.  It is anexcellent snack food or appetizer.  Celeryalso can be microwaved, stir-fried, braised,or steamed to serve as a main vegetable,but it usually is combined with other veg-etables or is included in stuffings forpoultry and fish.  Celery even has beenmade into a uniquely flavored soft drink,Dr. Brown’s Cel-Ray tonic.
Nutrient composition
Celery is a good source of vitamin C.Family Umbelliferae
Scientific name Apium graveolens L.
Common name celery
♥A good source of vitamin CVegetables 227
CHAYOTE
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 17
Water (%) 93
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 0
Zinc 0.2
Manganese 0
Potassium 138
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 4 RE
Vitamin C 6
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 14 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.SERVING
SIZE: 1/2 cup pieces, cooked (80 g)The chayote, a tropical member of the cucumber and squash family, is actually a
fruit.  It resembles a summer squash or avocado in shape and appearance but hasdeep, lengthwise ridges and a single, flat, nut-like seed.  The fruit can be variable in size, color, texture, and flavor.  The skin of the fruit can be smooth, deeply fissured, or even wrinkled and prickly.  Colors range from light-green to almost white.  The opaque flesh has a cucumber-like texture and varies in color.  Once heated, the flesh becomes somewhat translucent.  Except for the seed, the entire fruit is edible.
Family Cucurbitaceae
Scientific name Sechium edule
Common name chayote
♥A good source of vitamin C
Varieties
Although definite strains of chayote-pro-
ducing plants exist, distinctive varietiesof the fruit are yet to be identified.However, the fruit is identified by avariety of names.  In many places, it isrecognized as mango squash, chocho,christophine, and choke.  In Louisiana,it is called mirliton, and in Florida it iscalled a vegetable pear.
Origin & botanical facts
Chayote is native to Mexico, Central
America, and the West Indies.  The fruitis believed to have been cultivated bythe A ztecs and Mayans long before
Columbus arrived.  The name chayote isderived from the Mayan word “chayotli.”The plant is now grown in SouthAmerica, North Africa, and in subtropicalparts of southern Florida. The fruit growsabundantly from a fast-growing tropicalclimbing vine that may reach up to 100
feet in a single season and is covered withlarge, heart-shaped, lobed leaves thatmeasure 4 to 6 inches.  Ideal growingconditions include full sunlight, highmoisture levels, and rich, well-drained soil.Under the proper conditions, some plantscan produce up to 100 fruits in a singleseason.  The fruits must be harvestedyoung or they will become tough.  Chayoteis available year-round, but the peakseason is late summer through early fall. 
Uses
A firm, unblemished, clear-green chayote
is the best choice. The chayote keeps upto 1 month stored uncovered in a cool,dry, dark place, or it can be stored in aperforated plastic bag in a refrigeratorvegetable crisper for up to a week.
The chayote  is most easily prepared
by peeling the fruit and microwaving orsteaming it for a few minutes.  Althoughvery young fruit can be prepared with theskin left on, more mature fruit should bepeeled under running water to preventbeing irritated by the sticky sap under theskin. Cooked chayote can be seasoned totaste and eaten as is; sliced or diced andadded to other dishes such as salads in placeof cucumbers; or prepared like frenchfries.  Chayote halves that are stuffed and
baked make a filling main dish.  The
chayote can be substituted for many other
fruits and vegetables in recipes.  A fullymature fruit may be used in place of pota-toes in soups and purées.  The grated fruitalso is useful as a substitute for carrotsand zucchini in breads and pastries.Cooked, mashed, and seasoned withsweet spices, it resembles applesauce andcan be served as a light snack or dessert.The leaves and stems of the chayote plantare used as a low-cost animal feed andcan also be spun into cord.
Nutritional Facts
Chayote is a good source of vitamin C.228 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 41
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 7
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 8
Protein (grams) 3
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 180
Iron 2
Zinc 1
Manganese 1
Potassium 756
Magnesium 54
Phosphorus 85
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 720 RE
Vitamin C 43
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.2
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 197 μg
Vitamin E 4Chicory
SERVING
SIZE:
1 cup greens, raw (180 g)Varieties
The two basic types of chicory, forcing
and nonforcing, are distinguished by theirmethod of cultivation. The forcingchicories are initially sown outdoors, butbecause exposure to light tends to createa bitter taste, the plants are transferred toa dark area (a process called blanching)for the latter half of their growth. As aresult, forcing chicories have a milder fla-vor. The most common forcing varietiesare the Witloof chicory, sometimes calledBelgian endive, and the red-leaf radic-chio, an Italian chicory that is becomingincreasingly popular in the United States.
Nonforcing chicories do not require
blanching.  These varieties are grown likelettuce, without forcing.  The Italianradichetta, more common in NorthAmerica than in Europe, has narrow leavesthat grow on wide stalks and are cookedlike asparagus.
Origin & botanical facts
Chicory is native to Europe and western
Asia.  Evidence suggests that it was grownFamily Compositae
Scientific name Chichorium intybus
Common name chicory, Belgian endive,
radicchio
♥Leaves are high in folate, vitamin A,
vitamin C, potassium, and fiber
♥A good source of calcium, magne-sium, riboflavin, and vitamin B
6in ancient Egypt, where, along with
endive and escarole, it was believed tohave been one of the bitter herbsconsumed during the Jewish Passover.Works by Horace, Aristophanes, andPliny attest to the use of chicory by theearly Greeks and Romans. Later, it wasbrought to North America, where it nowgrows wild and in cultivated form.
Chicory can be grown in a variety of
soil types.  Seeds generally are sown directlyinto open ground.  Because most typesof chicory thrive in cool temperatures,planting is done in early spring or latefall.  Chicory plants have shallow roots,so frequent irrigation is necessary.  Theplants grow with a scruffy appearance andwith multiple stick-like stems that are 2to 3 feet tall.  Bright, almost iridescent,blue flowers appear on the stems in thesecond year.
Forcing varieties are dug up in late fall,
the leaves and roots are cut back, and theplants are laid horizontally in pots of moistpeat in a dark, warm place.  After 3 or 4weeks, the heads are ready to be cut.Nonforcing varieties of chicory are plant-ed in the spring and picked like lettuce inthe fall.  They can be used immediatelyor stored in a cool place for later use.Leading domestic producers of chicory,particularly the newly popular radicchio,are California and New Jersey. Some
chicory is also grown in Mexico and Italy.
Uses
Chicory, Belgian endive, and radicchio
should be selected and stored in a mannersimilar to arugula and lettuce.  Chicoryleaves most often are used raw in salads.The roots of some varieties of chicory areroasted and ground to make a coffee sub-stitute or flavoring popular in Louisiana. 
Nutrient composition
Chicory is high in folate, vitamin A,
vitamin C, potassium, and fiber.  It is alsoa good source of calcium, magnesium,riboflavin, and vitamin B
6.Chicory is a perennial that forms long, stick-like stems 
and ragged, widely spaced bunches of leaves, sometimes in tight heads or in loose formations.The outer leaves may be green, white, or red, depending on variety, and have a strong, slightly bitter taste.  The inner leaves are usually paler in color and milder in flavor.Vegetables 229
CHINESE CABBAGE (Bok Choy & Napa)
Nutrient Content
1 cup1/2cup napa,
bok choy, raw, cooked
shredded (70 g) (55 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 9 7
Water (%) 95 96
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 –
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 2 1
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 74 16
Iron 1 0
Zinc 0 2
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 176 47
Magnesium 13 4
Phosphorus 26 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 210 RE 5 RE
Vitamin C 32 2
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0
Folate 46 μg 23 μg
Vitamin E 0 –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient value is
not available.Bok choy and napa are two varieties of Chinese 
cabbage, a member of the same family as broccoli and Brussels sprouts. Resembling a cross between celery and Swiss chard, bok choy has white, celery-like stalks with dark-green, long, rounded leaves.  Napa cabbage is similar in shape and size to romaine lettuce and has white, crisp stalks.
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica campestris L.
Common name bok choy, napa cabbage
♥Raw bok choy is high in vitamin A and
vitamin C
♥Raw bok choy is a good source of folate
♥Napa cabbage is a good source of zinc
United States by Chinese immigrants in
the late 19th century, Chinese cabbage isnow grown in California, New Jersey,Hawaii, and Florida. 
Uses
Both bok choy and napa are available
throughout the year. Bok choy shouldhave bright, white stalks and fresh greenleaves and should show no signs ofwilting. Napa heads should be tightlyclosed and have unblemished leaves.Uncut, unwashed cabbage can be refrig-erated in a plastic bag for up to 3 days.Mild-flavored and versatile, both  bokchoy and napa cabbage can be preparedin the same ways as regular cabbage.  Theycan be used raw in salads or steamed,boiled, braised, stuffed, or stir-fried.Cooking softens the flavor of the leavesand sweetens the flavor of the stalks.Before cooking, the stalks must be slicedcrosswise or on the diagonal, and theleaves cut into thick shreds.  When stir-frying bok choy,  the stems should becooked a few minutes before adding themore tender leaves.  Bok choy and napa
cabbage are delicious cooked alone orwith meat, poultry, and other vegetables.A mild-flavored soup can be prepared byadding the leaves and stalks to either achicken or miso broth with scallions andcubes of chicken or tofu.  In Korea, kim-chee, a spicy dish made from pickledChinese cabbage, is served at most meals. 
Nutrient composition
Raw bok choy is high in vitamin A and
vitamin C.  One serving of cooked napacabbage is a good source of zinc.
Varieties
As many as 33 varieties of Chinese
cabbage exist, each with a different name.The two most common varieties are bokchoy (var. chinensis ) and napa cabbage
(var. pekinensis ).   Bok choy also is known
as pak-choi, qing cai, taisai, chongee, andChinese mustard cabbage.  Baby bok choyis a variety that grows to a fraction of thesize of regular bok choy and is consumedwhole.  Among its other names, napacabbage is sometimes called Chinesecabbage, which adds to the confusionamong varieties.
Origin & botanical facts
Native to China and eastern Asia, Chinese
cabbages are annual plants that grow bestin cool, moist environments. Both bokchoy and napa cabbage have beencultivated in China for thousands of yearsand are popular in that country and inKorea and Japan.  Introduced to the230 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Collards
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 25
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 113
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 1
Potassium 247
Magnesium 16
Phosphorus 25
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 297 RE
Vitamin C 17
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 88 μg
Vitamin E 1SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, boiled (95 g)Varieties
Collard varieties include the Plant Vates,
Carolina Improved Heading (or Morris),Georgia Southern, Blue Max, and HeaviCrop.
Origin & botanical facts
Collards, one of the oldest members of
the cabbage family, are similar to the wild,nonheading forms of cabbage that wereamong the first foods eaten by prehistoricpeople.  They are native to the easternMediterranean region and Asia Minorand were cultivated by the ancient Greeksand Romans.  Collards were introducedto Britain and France around 400 
B.C.by
either the Romans or the Celts.  Althoughcollards were first mentioned in theAmerican colonies in 1669, they mayhave been present here before that time.
Collards are a cool-season crop that
thrives in temperate climates.  They growwell in warm weather but can toleratecold temperatures in late fall, and theirflavor is enhanced by light autumn frost.Because they can survive cold tempera-Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea var.
acephala
Common name collards
♥High in vitamin A (beta-carotene),
vitamin C, and folate
♥A good source of fiber and calcium
♥A cruciferous vegetable that contains
phytochemicals that may help
prevent cancerCollards are plain-leafed, nonheading members of the cabbage family, closely
related to kale.  In flavor, they resemble a cross between cabbage and kale and are considered one of the milder greens.
tures, the cultivation of collards has spread
north from the southeastern United S tates,
where they have long been a popularvegetable.  Collard seeds can be sowndirectly into fields, or they can be plantedin protected beds and the seedlings trans-planted 6 or 8 weeks later into the fields.The plants mature in about 60 days.Collards can grow in a variety of soils andare tolerant of poor soil.
Collard greens can be harvested in
these ways: the tender, young leaves canbe removed from mature plants (whichencourages new growth), or the entireplant can be cut when it is very young,half-grown, or fully mature.  Maximalyield occurs when the leaves are removedfrom the bottom of the plant before theyage.  The peak season for collards isJanuary through April, but they generallyare available in markets year-round.
Uses
Crisp bunches of intact leaves with no
yellowing are best. Collards can be storedin perforated plastic bags in the refriger-ator crisper.
All green parts of the collard plant are
edible.  The southern style of cookingfresh collards is to boil them with a chunk
of bacon or salt pork, but they can beprepared similarly to cabbage, spinach,or other greens.  They can be steamed ormicrowaved and added to soups and stewsor casseroles.  Cooked collards make atasty salad served chilled with olive oiland lemon juice. Collard leaves also areavailable frozen and canned.
Nutrient composition
One-half cup of cooked collards is a good
source of fiber and calcium and is highin vitamin A (beta-carotene), vitamin C,and folate.  As a cruciferous vegetable,collards contain phytochemicals that mayhelp prevent cancer.Vegetables 231
Because corn is a member of the grass family, it is not strictly a vegetable but a
grain (see Grains, page 269).  However, one type, sweet corn, is prepared andserved as a fresh vegetable.  The seeds, or kernels, which are the edible part of the plant, form in spikelets on a woody axis called an ear.  They are covered with a green husk. Ears of corn vary in size, and the kernels range from white to yellow, orange, red, brown, blue, purple, and black, although sweet corn is always white or butter-yellow.
Variety
Of the many types of corn, sweet corn is
the only variety that is eaten fresh as avegetable.  Sweet corn is available inseveral varieties divided by kernel color.Some sweet corn is pure yellow; some,like Silver Queen, is white; and some, likeButter and Sugar, is bicolored, that is, ithas both yellow and white kernels.Popping corn, baby corn, and the whitecorn known as hominy are different typesof eating corn.
Origin & botanical facts
Corn is native to the Americas, probably
having originated in Mexico orGuatemala, where historians believe itevolved from a wild grain called teosintethat still grows in the Mexican highlands.The corn plant, which can attain heightsof 20 feet, has a hard, jointed stalk.  Maleflowers develop in the tassel at the top ofthe stalk, and the female flower is a clusterat the joint of the stalk.  Corn is polli-nated by the wind.  The corn silk hang-ing from the husk of each ear is the pollenreceptor; each thread must receive a grainof pollen for the kernels to develop.  Corngrows best during long, hot summers.  Itrequires rich soil and regular fertilizing,particularly with nitrogen.  Because theflowers are wind-pollinated, plants shouldbe spaced closely together.  The ears donot ripen well in cold weather, so theseeds must be planted in plenty of timefor the kernels to develop before the firstautumn frost.  Although each ear of cornproduces many kernels, the plant has nonatural mechanism for dispersing itsseeds.  To ensure that it will be tender andsucculent for eating, sweet corn is pickedbefore it reaches maturity.
Uses
Sweet corn is a popular vegetable in the
United States.  The average American eatsabout 25 pounds of corn every year, mostof it frozen or canned, but in summer,corn is preferred fresh on the cob.Because the sugars in the kernels of sweetcorn begin to convert to starch as soonas the ear is picked, corn should be eatenas soon after harvest as possible.
While still on the cob and after the
husks are removed, corn can be boiled,steamed, or microwaved, but the secret
to retaining the flavor is to cook it no
more than a few minutes.  For grillingears of corn in their husks, the ears shouldbe soaked in water for about 20 minutesand then cooked on a grill rack or in theoven for 10 to 15 minutes.  Grilling orroasting husked corn (for 5 to 7 minutes)produces a stronger flavor.
Nutrient composition
Corn provides some fiber, vitamin C, and
folate.Corn
Family Gramineae (Poaceae)
Scientific name Zea mays L.
Common names corn, sweet corn
♥Moderately good source of fiber,
vitamin C, and folate
Nutrient Content
1/2cup (about 
1 ear) yellow 1 cup 
corn, boiled popcorn, air-
(82 g) popped (8 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 89 31
Water (%) 70 4
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 1
Fat (grams) 1 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 21 6
Protein (grams) 3 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 2 1
Iron 1 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 204 24
Magnesium 26 10
Phosphorus 84 24
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 18 RE 2 RE
Vitamin C 5 0
Thiamin 0.2 0
Riboflavin 0.1 0
Niacin 1 0
Vitamin B 6 00
Folate 38 μg 2 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 4
Water (%) 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 0
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 41
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 112
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 159 RE
Vitamin C 15
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 40 μg
Vitamin E 0232 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
The most common variety of cress is
watercress, which grows in flooded soilbeds and has small, heart-shaped leavesand a slightly bitter taste.  Watercress isdifficult to grow in home gardens.  Aneasily grown, hardy alternative is wintercress, with dark-green, strongly flavoredleaves that form rosettes.  Other varietiesinclude broad-leaved cress, with ovalleaves; peppergrass, or curly cress, withan attractive, ornamental appearance;extra curled, a compact plant with shortstalks and fine leaves; and garden cress, atall, cool-season annual.
Origin & botanical facts
Cress grows wild in many parts of the
world, including Asia, the Middle East,Europe, North America, and NewZealand.  Watercress is native to Europe,and garden cress originated in Persia, laterspreading to India, Syria, Greece, andEgypt.  Watercress has been cultivatedsince ancient Roman times.  Commercialcultivation was first recorded in Germanyin 1750 and later in Great Britain in1808.  Today, watercress is grown in GreatBritain and in the United States, mainlyin California, Florida, and Virginia.
Winter cress is cultivated as a substitutefor watercress when flowing water is notavailable for planting.  It is producedmostly in the United States, favored bygrowers because of its hardiness.
Cress is propagated from seeds or stem
cuttings and generally prefers the coolgrowing conditions of early spring andlate fall.  The growth of watercressrequires a special environment withflooded soil beds containing absolutelypure water, because any water-borne con-taminants could be deposited on theplant.  The leafy stems are generallyharvested about 180 days after planting.Requirements for other varieties vary.Garden cress, which can grow up to 18inches tall, prefers sun or light shade andwell-drained soil.  Seeds can be sown atintervals from early spring through thesummer in order to furnish a constantsupply of young leaves.  The whole plantsare harvested about 60 days after planting.Hardy winter cress is not planted untilJuly or August and can be harvested fromlate fall through the winter, until theplants begin to flower in spring.  Theleaves of most cresses are picked when theyare 3 to 5 inches long, or the entire plantcan be harvested before seed stalks form.
SERVING
SIZE:
1 cup, raw (34 g)Cress (watercress)
Uses
The raw, young leaves of the cress plant
are sold in bunches. When selectingwatercress, choose crisp leaves with deepcolor, and avoid those with yellow leaves.Watercress can be refrigerated up to 5days in a plastic bag or with the stem endsin a glass of water and the leaves coveredwith a plastic bag.  The leaves andtrimmed stems may be added to salads,sandwiches, and soups and used as agarnish for a variety of dishes.
Nutrient composition
Watercress is high in vitamin A and
vitamin C.  As a cruciferous vegetable, itcontains phytochemicals that may helpprevent cancer.Cress is a member of the mustard family, a cruciferous vegetable whose small,
dark-green leaves add a slight crunch and a tangy, peppery flavor to dishes.
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Lepidium sativum
(garden cress)
Common name cress, garden cress, 
watercress
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of folate and vitamin A
♥A cruciferous vegetable that containsphytochemicals that may help prevent
cancerVegetables 233
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 7
Water (%) 96
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 75
Magnesium 6
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 21 RE
Vitamin C 3
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 7 μg
Vitamin E 0 The cucumber is a member of the same family as gourds, melons, and squash.
Although the cucumber is botanically a fruit, it is more commonly thought of andused as a vegetable.  It is usually oblong and 1 to 8 inches long.  It has glossy,dark-green skin and tapering ends.  Its interior is generally pale green to white,with rows of tender, edible seeds down the center.  Cucumbers are largely water.  They are moist but crisp, and their flavor is sweet and mild.
Varieties
Cucumbers grow in a variety of shapes
and sizes, from tiny gherkins to green-house types that are up to 20 inches long.All have a similar flavor.  Those grownprimarily for eating fresh are called slic-ing varieties and include both field-grownand greenhouse cucumbers.  The green-house varieties, sometimes called Englishcucumbers, tend to be longer and nar-rower, milder, and seedless.  One type ofEnglish cucumber is sometimes referredto as “burpless.”  Other varieties are cul-tivated for pickling.  These are usuallysmaller than slicing cucumbers and havebumpy, lighter-colored skins.  Thesmallest is the gherkin, which is only 1 or
2 inches long.  On e of the pickling
varieties, the Kirby, is often sold fresh andis enjoyed for its thin skin, crispness, andvery small seeds.
Origin & botanical facts
The cucumber is believed to have origi-
nated in wild form in the mountains ofnorthern India, where a similar wildSERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, sliced (52 g)Cucumber
Uses
Whole cucumbers can be refrigerated in
a crisper up to 1 week, tightly wrappedin plastic.
With its high water content, the
cucumber is especially refreshing in warmweather, chilled and eaten fresh, pickledand eaten alone, or added to green saladsor sandwiches.  In the Mediterraneanregion, cucumber often is grated intoyogurt, to which spices and raisins or nutsare added to make a cooling condimentfor spicy dishes.
Nutrient composition
Cucumbers are composed mostly of water
and contain only small amounts of nutrients.Family Cucurbitaceae
Scientific name Cucumis sativus
Common name cucumber
species still grows.  It was also in India
that the cucumber was first cultivated,about 3,000 years ago.  From there it wasbrought to Greece and then to WesternEurope.  Columbus transported thecucumber to the Americas, where it even-tually was cultivated by American Indiansand European colonists in eastern NorthAmerica and as far north as Canada.Today, the leading producers of cucum-bers in the United States are Florida,North Carolina, Texas, Georgia, andSouth Carolina.
Cucumbers require warm tempera-
tures and should not be planted until alldanger of frost has passed.  Distinct maleand female flowers develop on onecucumber plant, and pollen is carried byinsects; 10 to 20 bee visits per flower perday are required to produce long, straightfruit.  In contrast, greenhouse cucumbersare not pollinated, so they form withoutseeds.  Both field and greenhouse typesare  picked as soon as they are of ediblesize so that the plants will continue toproduce flowers and fruit.should be left intact until just before
cooking.  Peeling is recommended forolder eggplant, because the skin toughenswith age. Because a carbon steel bladewill blacken the flesh, a stainless steel knifeis preferred for cutting eggplant.
Eggplant can be stuffed and baked,
broiled, roasted, fried, stir-fried, or stewed.Because they are very porous, eggplantssoak up oil easily during frying.  Oilabsorption can be minimized by salting todraw out the moisture and compact theflesh.  This process also eliminates thenatural bitter taste.  Using a nonstick panalso can help cut down on fat absorption.
Nutrient composition
Eggplant is composed mostly of water and
contains only small amounts of nutrients.234 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 14
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 123
Magnesium 6
Phosphorus 11
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 7 μg
Vitamin E 0Although often thought of as a vegetable, the eggplant is botanically a fruit.  It is a
member of the nightshade family, which includes the tomato, potato, and pepper.In addition to the purple eggplant, there are many other types of eggplant, varying from white to green-yellow and purple-black.  Eggplants also vary in shape and may be oblong, round, tear-dropped, or lobed.  Eggplants range in length from 2 to 12 inches.
Varieties
The eggplant is available in many varieties.
In the United States, the most commoneggplant is the large, cylindrical or pear-shaped variety with a smooth, glossy, dark-purple skin.  Another popular variety isthe Japanese or Asian eggplant, whichranges from solid purple to striated shadesand has tender, slightly sweet flesh.  TheItalian, or baby, eggplant looks like a minia-ture version of the larger common variety.The egg-shaped White Egg has tougherskin and firmer, smoother flesh.
Origin & Botanical Facts
First cultivated more than 4,000 years
ago, the eggplant is believed to be nativeto India, from where it was subsequent-ly brought to China. In the Middle Ages,Arab traders brought it to Spain andnorthern Africa. By the 18th century,both the French and the Italians culti-vated eggplant, which they calledaubergine.  Thomas Jefferson introducedthe eggplant to the United States.However, it was not until the 20th century
that Americans began to use the eggplantas a food.  Previously, it was used as a tabledecoration.  Today, the eggplant is mostpopular in the cuisines of southern Italyand the Middle East.
The eggplant is a frost-intolerant
perennial grown as an annual.  It will sus-tain damage if the temperature falls below65° Fahrenheit.  Eggplant is availablethroughout the year.  The peak season isfrom July to October.  Florida and NorthCarolina produce half the domestic crop.In the winter months, California andMexico are also major suppliers.
Uses
Eggplant is very perishable and should
be stored in a cool, dry place.  It can berefrigerated in a plastic bag for 3 to 4 days.Because it contains a heat-sensitive toxinthat can induce diarrhea and vomiting,eggplant must be cooked before eating.To prevent the discoloration that occurswhen the flesh is exposed to air, eggplantSERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup cubes, cooked (50 g)Eggplant
Family Solanaceae
Scientific name Solanum melogena
esculentum
Common name eggplant, aubergineVegetables 235
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 13
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 3
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 21
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 180
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 22
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 6 RE
Vitamin C 5
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 12 μg
Vitamin E –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Fennel is an aromatic herb similar 
in appearance to dill.  It has pale yellowish-green, hollow stems and bright-green, feathery leaves.  The clear yellow flowers of fennel produce seed structures that resemble umbrellas.  Both the root and the leaves have a mild licorice flavor.  Theseeds have a pungent, aromatic scent.
Variety
The two basic types of fennel, common
fennel and Florence fennel, bear a closeresemblance to one another but are useddifferently.  The shoots, leaves, and seeds(called “fruit”) of the common fennel areused primarily as flavoring agents forfood. Several varieties of common fennelhave seeds that differ in length, width,and taste.  These include the sweet variety,also known as French or Roman fennel,characterized by long, yellowish greenfruit with a sweet flavor; Indian fennel,which is brownish, smaller, and lessrounded; and the pale-green Persian andJapanese varieties, which are the smallestand have a stronger anise flavor and odor.
Florence fennel, also called finocchio,
is somewhat smaller than common fenneland is grown mainly for its broad, bulbousleaf base, which is eaten as a vegetable.  
Origin & botanical facts
Fennel is native to the Mediterranean
region and was well known to the ancientGreeks and Romans.  The Romansenjoyed the young shoots as both aflavoring and, according to their belief,an aid to controlling obesity.  The Greekscalled it “marathon,” a name derived from“maraino,” meaning “to grow thin.”From the Mediterranean, fennel was
carried east to India and also north toEurope and England, especially to Romancolonies.  Spanish settlers are believed tohave brought fennel to the WesternHemisphere more than 200 years ago.  In1824, the American consul at Liverpoolgave Thomas Jefferson fennel seeds forhis garden at Monticello. 
Fennel is a long-lived plant that
thrives almost anywhere.  Fennel plantsusually grow to 3 or 4 feet but have beenknown to reach 7 feet.  Young plants forma bulbous, thick root the first year andflower the following summer.  By mid-summer, the clusters of small yellowblossoms begin to droop with the weightof the heavy seeds.  Leaves can be pickedat any time, and seeds should be harvestedwhen they begin to turn brown.  A singleplant produces about 1/4 cup of seedsand 1 cup of leaves.
Uses
Fennel can be refrigerated unwashed in
a plastic bag up to 1 week.Fennel
Family Umbelliferae
Scientific name Foeniculum vulgare (dulce)
Common name fennel, sweet aniseAll parts of the fennel plant are edible.
The mildly licorice-flavored leaves areused as a seasoning for fish.  They alsocan be chopped for salads, dressings, dips,and cream sauces.  The seeds have a morepungent flavor and are used either wholeor ground as an ingredient in curries, pies,breads, and sausages and in a variety ofsoups and stews.  The bulb can be slicedand eaten raw in salads, cooked in stews,added to pasta dishes, sautéed in oil, orbaked and served with grated cheese andbreadcrumbs.  
Nutrient composition
Fennel is not a significant source of nutrients.
SERVING
SIZE:fennel bulb, 1/2 cup, sliced, raw (87 g)236 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Amaryllidaceae
Scientific name Allium sativum L.
Common name garlic, stinking rose
♥Contains phytochemicals that
may promote healthGarlic is a member of the Allium genus, as are the onion, leek, and scallion.
Covered in a loose, thin outer skin, the garlic bulb consists of small sections called cloves that are individually wrapped by a more tight-fitting, paper-like sheath.
result of staggered harvests and a long
shelf life. The California harvest begins
in June, andgarlic is shipped to markets
from July through December.  When theCalifornia supply is depleted, it is replaced
by imported g arlic from Mexico and South
America.
Uses
Garlic’s strength varies with the season
and variety, a factor to keep in mind whencooking with garlic.  Because garlic thathas sprouted is less pungent than youngergarlic, sprouting should be prevented bykeeping the bulbs in a cool, dark place.Garlic is the basic flavoring in mostChinese dishes and in much of the cook-ing of southern and central Europe.Garlic is potent when raw, milder whensautéed, and sweetly delicate when boiledor baked, because heat destroys some ofthe flavor- and odor-producing com-
pounds.  However, when garlic is sautéed,
care must be taken not to burn the garlic,because it will turn bitter.  Slow bakingproduces garlic that is sweet and nuttywith a buttery consistency.  Baked garliccan be spread on bread to make an appe-tizer.  Rubbing a salad bowl with a cutNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 4
Water (%) 59
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 11
Magnesium 1
Phosphorus 4
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 0 μg
Vitamin E 0SERVING
SIZE:
1 tsp., raw (3 g)Garlic
garlic clove before adding the ingredients
will give the salad a mild and fresh garlicflavor.  Garlic juice also can be used tomake salad dressing.  Slivers of garlic canbe inserted into slits made in roast beef,veal, or lamb before cooking.  In addi-tion, whole garlic can be baked or roast-ed with meat or poultry.
Nutrient composition
Garlic contains the phytochemicals
allicin, ajoene, saponins, and phenoliccompounds that may have antioxidantand immune-promoting functions. 
Varieties
Some 300 varieties of garlic are grown
around the world.  In the United Statesonly two main types, “early” and “late,”
are grown.  About 90 percent of the garlicis grown in California.  The early varietyis harvested in mid-summer, and the latevariety is harvested a few weeks later.  Thelate variety is slightly denser and has alonger shelf life than the early variety.Other, rare varieties of garlic are the Chilenoand Elephant garlic, which is actually aform of leek and has a milder flavor.
Origin & botanical facts
Garlic is native to central Asia, where it
has been cultivated for more than 5,000years.  Garlic was known to the Egyptiansas early as 3200 
B.C.  When taking solemn
oaths, the ancient Egyptians swore ongarlic in much the same way people swearon the Bible today.  Today, garlic is amongthe leading vegetable crops of the world.Some 2.3 million metric tons are pro-duced worldwide annually.  Some of theleading garlic-producing countries areChina, South Korea, India, Spain, theUnited States, Thailand, Egypt, T urkey,and Brazil.
Garlic is available year-round as aVegetables 237
Family Zingiberaceae
Scientific name Zingiber officinale
Common name Jamaican ginger,
African ginger, Cochin or Asianginger
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 8
Water (%) 82
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 2
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 2
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 46
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 3
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 1 μg
Vitamin E 0Ginger is a tropical Asian herb grown for its pungent 
and spicy aromatic roots.  Gingerroot is peppery and slightly sweet.  Its light-brown skin covers a firm flesh that ranges from greenish yellow to ivory.
Varieties
Several hundred varieties of ginger exist.
In addition, fresh gingerroot may beyoung or mature.  Spring ginger, as youngginger is sometimes called, has a pale, thinskin that does not require peeling.  Youngginger is delicate and milder than matureginger.
Origin & Botanical Facts
Ginger is believed to be native to South
China or India, where it has been culti-vated since  ancient times.  The earliestrecorded mention of ginger appears inChinese writings.  According to the PenTsao Ching ( Classics of Herbs ), written by
Shen Nung around 3000 
B.C., ginger
“eliminates body odor and puts a personin touch with the spiritual realm.”  Inancient India, ginger was believed tocleanse the body spiritually.  Ginger alsowas used to preserve food and treat diges-tive problems.  As in India, the ancientGreeks used ginger for digestive problemsby eating ginger wrapped in bread afterlarge meals.  Eventually, ginger was addedto the bread dough, and the product becameknown as gingerbread.  The Romans alsoused ginger as a digestive aid.  Arab tradersintroduced ginger to the Mediterraneanarea, and in the 16th century, Francisco deMendoza of Spain brought it to the WestIndies.  In England and Colonial America,
ginger was made into ginger beer, a popu-lar home remedy for diarrhea, nausea,and vomiting and a precursor to today’sginger ale.
Ginger thrives in the tropics and in
warmer regions of the temperate zone.Currently, the herb is grown in severalregions of West Africa and the WestIndies, and in India and China.  The plantreaches maturity in the late summer whenthe foliage begins to turn yellow.However, the root can be harvested at anystage simply by digging it up.  The finestquality ginger comes from Jamaica, whereproduction is most abundant.  In theUnited States, ginger is grown in Florida,Hawaii, and along the east coast of Texas.
Uses
Ginger is a popular ingredient in Asian
cooking, for which it has been used forcenturies in both its fresh and driedforms.  Fresh ginger can be shredded,grated, finely minced, or sliced and usedin curries and stir-fried dishes.  Whenbuying fresh ginger, choose roots thatSERVING
SIZE:
5 slices ginger, raw (11 g)Ginger
have a firm, smooth skin with a fresh,
spicy smell.  Fresh unpeeled ginger canbe tightly wrapped in a paper towel andplastic wrap or placed in a sealed plasticbag and refrigerated up to 2 weeks orfrozen for 6 months. Powdered, driedginger, which has a more spicy, intenseflavor, is used for making gingerbread,gingersnaps, and other spice cookies.Ginger also is available in crystallized orcandied form, preserved, and pickled.Dried powdered ginger should not besubstituted for fresh or crystallized gingerin recipes, because it will not provide thesame flavor.
Nutrient composition
Ginger is not a significant source of nutrients.238 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Horseradish is a root crop belonging to the botanical family that includes cabbage,
mustard, and radish.  Only the long, fleshy roots of this vegetable are used,because the leaves contain a slightly poisonous compound and have no culinaryvalue.  Rough and cream-colored, the parsnip-like root can grow to 20 inches in length and 1 to 3 inches in diameter.  A sulfur-containing compound known as allyl isothiocyanate is responsible for the root’s strong, pungent odor and hot, biting flavor, which is reminiscent of mustard and results from a chemical reaction that occurs only when the root is bruised or cut.
Origin & botanical facts
The horseradish is native to Eastern
Europe and has been used as an herb sinceancient times.  It was grown in Greecemore than 3,000 years ago.  Mentionedin the Bible, it is one of the bitter herbsserved during the Jewish Passover festival.In medieval Europe, the root was believedto be a cure-all.  Initially used only for itsmedicinal properties, by the 1600s horse-radish had become a common condimentfor fish and meat in Europe.  The word“horse” in horseradish, often used toimply coarseness, as in horse-mint or horsechestnut, is used similarly in this case todistinguish the plant from the edibleradish ( Raphanus sativus ).
The perennial horseradish plant grows
worldwide and is often found growingwild along roadsides throughout Europeand North America. From the long mainroot, stems sprout that grow to about 3feet in height and give rise to large, jagged,wavy leaves.  Once established, horse-radish can tolerate any amount of neglectand can easily become a weed. Most ofthe fresh horseradish sold in the UnitedStates is grown in California.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 2
Water (%) 85
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 12
Magnesium 1
Phosphorus 2
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 1
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 3 μg
Vitamin E 0 SERVING
SIZE:
1 tsp., prepared (5 g)Horseradish
vinegar or in beet juice, which gives it a
reddish hue. Horseradish also is availablein a dried form that must be reconstitutedwith water before using.  Wasabi, a pun-gent green condiment sometimes referredto as “Japanese horseradish,” is tradition-ally made from the root of a semiaquaticAsian plant, Wasabia japonica , from the
same family of cruciferous vegetables.However, some inexpensive commercialwasabi powder and paste may containdomestic horseradish instead of wasabi. 
Nutrient composition
One serving of prepared horseradish
provides small amounts of nutrients.Uses
Roots that are firm and free of blemishes
should be selected.  The root can be refrig-erated in a plastic bag for up to a week.Usually grated and used raw, the rootmust be washed, scrubbed, and peeledbefore grating by hand or with a foodprocessor.  Vinegar or lemon juice can beadded to the grated horseradish to retardthe enzyme process that produces thedistinctive bite.  For a mild sauce, 2 to 3tablespoons of lemon juice or vinegar canbe added to a cup of horseradish alongwith a half teaspoon of salt immediatelyafter grating.  For a hot sauce, the gratedhorseradish should be allowed to stand afew minutes before the lemon juice orvinegar is added.  Because heat causes theroot to release a pungent smell, horse-radish should never be cooked.  Gratedhorseradish is used as a condiment onfish, beef, chicken, and sausages.  It isusually combined with oil and vinegar orwith cream to make sauces for beef,smoked fish, or asparagus.  Horseradishis the ingredient that provides the fresh,pungent flavor to seafood cocktail sauce.Blending horseradish with yogurt orapplesauce makes a traditional Austrianaccompaniment to meat.  Preserved,grated horseradish is available bottled inFamily Cruciferae
Scientific name Armoracia rusticana
Common name horseradish, mountain
radish, great raifort, red coleVegetables 239
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 57
Water (%) 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 13
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 11
Iron 3
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 322
Magnesium 13
Phosphorus 59
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 2 RE
Vitamin C 3
Thiamin 0.2
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 10 μg
Vitamin E 0Paradoxically, the Jerusalem artichoke is neither an artichoke nor from Jerusalem.
This vegetable is the thick, brown-skinned root of a variety of sunflower. Themature tubers or roots, most of which are 3 to 4 inches long and about half asthick, resemble small, lumpy Irish potatoes. The white flesh of the Jerusalem artichoke is usually described as nutty, sweet, and crunchy.
Varieties
Jerusalem artichokes exist in both red-
and white-skinned varieties.  SmoothGarnet and Brazilian Red are red-skinnedvarieties.  White-skinned varieties suchas the New White Mammoth andBrazilian White have a clean, white skinand are also more rounded than the red-tinted ones.  Other varieties include theGolden Nugget, which has carrot-liketubers; Stampede, a quick-maturingvariety with large tubers; and DwarfSunray, which is a small variety.  Modernvarieties  produce less knobby tubers thatare easier to peel.
Origin & botanical facts
One of the few vegetables that is native
to the North American plains, theJerusalem artichoke is indigenous to thelake regions of Canada.  In the UnitedStates, it  grows as far south as Arkansasand Georgia.  Reportedly cultivated byAmerican Indians before the 16th century,the tuber prefers to grow in damp placeswith good soil.  It is a hardy perennialthat tolerates frost and can be left in theground all year.  The plants have stiffstems that may grow to a height of 10feet, and some varieties produce smallsunflowers late in the summer.  Severaltubers are produced at the base of eachflower stalk.
Uses
Jerusalem artichokes may be stored in a
sealed plastic bag in the refrigerator forup to a week.  After that, they lose mois-ture and become withered.  Jerusalemartichokes can be eaten raw in salads orserved with a dip.  Although they shouldbe washed thoroughly, they need not bepeeled.  If peeled, the vegetable shouldbe immersed in acidulated water (dilutelemon juice) to prevent discoloration.The tuber also can be cooked in a varietySERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup sliced, raw (75 g)Jerusalem Artichoke
of ways, including baking, boiling,
mashing, or frying.  It can also be preparedin combination with other vegetables.Added to soups, Jerusalem artichokesimpart a sweet, nutty flavor.
Nutrient composition
The Jerusalem artichoke is a good source
of thiamin and iron.
Family Compositae
Scientific name Helianthus tuberosus
Common name Jerusalem artichoke,
sunflower artichoke, sunchoke,topinambour
♥A good source of thiamin and iron240 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Leguminosae
Scientific name Pachyrhizus erosus
Common name Xiquima, Mexican turnip,
Mexican potato, yam bean
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of fiberJicama (pronounced hi-ca-ma) is a large, edible, tuberous root that can weigh up
to 50 pounds. It has a slightly squat shape, a thin brown skin, and ivory flesh thatis crunchy (resembling a raw potato), very juicy, and slightly sweet.
Varieties
The two most popular cultivated forms of
jicama are jicama de agua and jicama deleche.  The former, which produces atranslucent juice, is usually preferred, whilejicama de leche, which has elongated rootsand a milky juice, is less familiar.
Origin & botanical facts
A legume native to Central America and
Mexico, jicama is a perennial vine thatgrows to a length of 20 feet or more andhas compound leaves with pointed edges.The vine bears beautiful sprays of mauve,white, or blue flowers and poisonous seedsin pods 6 to 8 inches long.  Because thetuber requires a very long and warmgrowing season, most of the jicama avail-able in U.S. supermarkets is importedfrom Mexico and South America,although the plant is also grown in partsof east and southeast Asia.Uses
Jicama is ready to be eaten at any stage
of growth. T ubers should be firm,smooth-skinned, heavy, and free ofbruises, wrinkles, and cracks.  Jicama canbe stored in the refrigerator for up to 2weeks.  If it is stored for longer periods,its starch content converts to sugar. Ideallythe tuber should be stored in a cool, dryplace, because too much moisture cancause mold to form.  The peeled tubercan be eaten raw or cooked.  The sliced orjulienned root retains its crispness evenafter sautéing or stir-frying and can beadded to soups or stews.  Raw jicama canbe served as part of a vegetable platter oradded to salads.  It serves as a substitutefor water chestnut.
Nutrient composition
The jicama is high in vitamin C and is a
good source of fiber.Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 23
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 7
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 90
Magnesium 7
Phosphorus 11
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 12
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 7 μg
Vitamin E 0 SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup, sliced (60 g)JicamaVegetables 241
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 4
Water (%) 82
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 17
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 9
Magnesium 12
Phosphorus 4
Sodium 23
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 0
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 18 μg
Vitamin E 0 Kelp is a type of seaweed that grows up to 200 feet in length in the waters off
Japan, Europe, and North America.  Like other seaweed, it is a large form of
algae.   Fresh seaweed and other sea vegetables are similar in texture to some 
dry-land greens, but they have a strong, salty, seawater flavor.
Varieties
The thousands of varieties of algae grow
in a broad spectrum of colors, shapes, andsizes, ranging from the small freshwateralgae to the long-stemmed kelp that flour-ishes in the oceans.  Also called seaweed,agar-agar, carrageenan, and dulse, algaeare generally classified by their color,which varies from brown to red, green,or blue-green.  Kelp is one of the brownalgae.  Some of the varieties of kelpavailable in Japan include Wakame,Arame, Kombu, and Hijiki.
Origin & botanical facts
The word “seaweed” generally refers to
the large red or brown varieties of algae.Brown algae grow in cold waters, and redalgae thrive in tropical seas.  Algae com-pose two-thirds of the plant material onearth and are among the very few plantsthat have not changed for centuries.  Inancient times, sailors harvested the kelpbeds that thrived off the coasts of Englandand France and burned the plants for fuel.They also wrapped fish in the fronds andbaked them.  Unlike the Japanese,Europeans have never made significant useof kelp as a food.  However, 18th-centuryEuropean physicians noted that enlarged
thyroid gland (goiter) rarely developedin people who lived along the coast.  In18th-century England, a physician success-fullyused charred kelp to treat a patient
who had goiter.  It was not until the 19thcentury, however, that scientists discoveredthat goiter is caused by iodine deficiencyand that kelp is rich in iodine.  For severaldecades after this discovery, Europeansand Americans harvested kelp from under-sea rocks to use as a source of iodine.
Uses
Today, seaweed is a staple in the diets of
some people.  In Japan, seaweed consti-tutes approximately 25 percent of thediet.  Kombu and Wakame, two populartypes of kelp, are used extensively.Kombu is used to make a tasty broth, andWakame is used as an ingredient in soupsand stir-fries.  Sheets of Wakame are usedto prepare sushi.  Powdered kelp can serveas a salt substitute, helping to flavor soups,salads, and tomato juice.  In the UnitedStates, dried sheets of seaweed can befound in Asian groceries and in somesupermarkets.SERVING
SIZE:
1/8 cup, raw (10 g)Kelp
Nutrient composition
The nutritional value of seaweed depends
on the type, but most provide calcium,iodine, folate, and magnesium.  Driedkelp contains so much iodine that con-sumption of large quantities can be harm-ful.  Some varieties, such as Kombu andWakame, are also high in sodium.
Family Laminariaceae
Scientific name Laminaria
Common name kelp242 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
The kohlrabi is a member of the 
cabbage family, grown for the swollen, globe-shaped portion of the stem, which rests on the surface of the ground.  The best kohlrabi bulbs are between 2 and 3 inches in diameter.  The vegetable can be white, purple, or green and has a creamy-white interior that is somewhat sweet and similar in texture to a turnip.
Varieties
Kohlrabi varieties are distinguished by
color.  Among the popular varieties are theGrand Duke, Kolibri F1, Purple D anube,
Purple Vienna, and White Vienna.
Origin & botanical facts
The kohlrabi, which literally means
“cabbage turnip,” is descended from boththe wild cabbage and the wild turnip.Although the origin of this vegetable isuncertain, a vegetable answering to thesame description was mentioned by theRoman botanist Pliny in the 1st century
A.D. No such vegetable was again
described until after the Middle Ages.Today, the kohlrabi is mainly eaten incentral and eastern Europe.
Unlike other cruciferous vegetables,
the part of kohlrabi that is eaten is a swollenpart of the stem.  Kohlrabi has so declinedin popularity in the last century that itcan be difficult to purchase.  The reasonfor this decline is not known but may beits increased toughness with larger sizes.Kohlrabi leaves are similar to collard greens
or kale in flavor.  The succulent, tenderleaves of young kohlrabi plants can becooked like spinach or mustard greens.
Nutrient composition
Kohlrabi is high in vitamin C.  Raw
kohlrabi is a good source of fiber.  Bothraw and cooked forms also containantioxidants and bioflavonoids.
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica oleracea var.
caulorapo
Common name kohlrabi, stem turnip,
colinabo, cabbage turnip
♥Kohlrabi is high in vitamin C
♥Raw kohlrabi is a good source of fiber
Nutrient Content
1/2cup,1/2cup,
raw (70g) cooked (83 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 19 24
Water (%) 91 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 3 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4 6
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 17 21
Iron 0 0
Zinc – 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 245 281
Magnesium 32 16
Phosphorus 13 37
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3 RE 3 RE
Vitamin C 43 45
Thiamin – 0
Riboflavin – 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0 0.1
Folate 11 μg 10 μg
Vitamin E 0 1 
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.KOHLRABI
Kohlrabi bulbs should be harvested when
they reach no more than 2 to 3 inches indiameter.  Kohlrabi cultivation in theUnited States is quite limited.
Uses
Kohlrabi bulbs that are plum-size or
smaller, firm, and unblemished and haveleaves that are still attached are best.  Afterthe leaf stems are removed, the bulbs ofkohlrabi can be stored in the refrigeratorfor several weeks (longer if placed in sealedplastic bags).  The kohlrabi bulb may beeaten raw or cooked.  Although small,tender bulbs generally do not require peel-ing, the skin of medium and large onesshould be removed before use.  The crispflesh can be served raw in salads or madeinto a relish.  The bulb also can be cubed,sliced, or julienned and steamed untiltender.  The practice in many centralEuropean countries is to hollow out thevegetable and stuff it with meat or othervegetables before baking or steaming.Vegetables 243
The leek is related to garlic, scallions, and onions and resembles a large scallion.
Unlike the onion, however, it does not form a real bulb but grows as a thick, fleshy stalk with flattened leaves.  The leaves are green to blue-green or purple and wrap tightly around each other like rolled paper.  The white leaf base—the part that is most commonly eaten—has a flavor and fragrance similar to but milder than onions.
Varieties
The many varieties of leeks differ mostly
in the color of their leaves, their generalcold hardiness, and the degree of bulbingat the stem base.  Those with blue orpurple leaves tend to be the hardiest.  Anold French variety called Bleu Solaise,which is known to be resistant to cold,has blue-green leaves. 
Origin & botanical facts
Leeks are native to southern Europe and
the Mediterranean region, where  theystill grow wild.  Both wild and cultivatedleeks have been consumed for thousandsof years.  In ancient Rome,  EmperorNero consumed large quantities of leeksin the belief that they would improve hissinging voice.  In the 6th century, Walesadopted the leek as its national symbolin the belief that leeks worn on thehelmets of Welsh soldiers, to distinguishthem from enemy troops, helped themachieve victory.  Today, France, Belgium,and the Netherlands lead the world inleek production.  Although not as popularin the United States, the leek is cultivatedin California, Michigan, New Jersey, andVirginia.  Leeks can be grown from seedor transplants, but transplanting is thepreferred method, for which plants arebegun in containers between Decemberand April.  Leeks prefer a cool to moderateclimate, rich but well-drained soil, anduniform watering.  The base is blanchedby tilling the soil up around each plantwhen it is about the size of a pencil.Blanching makes the edible portionlonger and whiter.  Leek plants produceflowering stems more than 6 feet inheight, with white, pink, or dark-redflowers.  On most leek varieties, numer-ous bulbils, or secondary bulbs, formaround the base of the plant, and thesecan be used to start new plants.
Uses
Before being used, leeks should be washed
thoroughly to remove any soil or grittrapped between the leaves, and therootlets and leaf ends should be trimmedoff.  Like onions and garlic, leeks are usedprimarily to add flavor to a variety ofLeek
dishes.  Raw leeks can be sliced thin andadded to salads of all types. Sliced orpuréed, they add zest to quiches, stews,casseroles, mixed vegetable dishes, andsoups.  They are one of the key ingredi-ents in French vichyssoise, a classic coldpotato and leek soup.  They also may bebaked, braised in broth or wine, broiled,sautéed, or microwaved.  Leeks shouldbe cooked only until barely tender.
Nutrient composition
Leeks contain only small amounts of
nutrients.
Nutrient Content
1/2cup
1/2cup chopped,
chopped, cooked
raw (45 g) (52 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 27 16
Water (%) 83 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 6 4
Protein (grams) 1 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 26 16
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 80 45
Magnesium 12 7
Phosphorus 16 9
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 4 RE 3 RE
Vitamin C 5 2
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 29 μg 13 μg
Vitamin E 0 –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient value
is not available.Family Amaryllidaceae
Scientific name Allium ampeloprasum
Common name leek244 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Asteraceae
Scientific name Lactuca sativa
Common name lettuce
♥Depending on the variety,
lettuce can be a good source of folate and a good to excellent source of vitamin CLettuce is a salad green that grows in forms ranging from tightly compacted heads
to loose leaves, depending on the variety.  The leaves are pale to dark green orgreen with red edges, crisp, and mild to pungent.
Varieties
Four basic types of lettuce are grown: head
lettuce, loose leaf, butterhead, andromaine.  The most common, popularvariety is iceberg, a compact head lettucethat is pale green and has a delicate flavor.Loose leaf lettuce forms rosettes of crisp,curly leaves 8 to 12 inches long andincludes the red-edged varieties.  The mildbutterhead lettuce, including the Bostonand Bibb varieties, has a softly compressedhead, 8 to 12 inches across, of grass-greenleaves that fade to a lighter yellowish greenin the interior.  Romaine lettuce forms adark-green, tightly compressed head ofleaves about 10 inches long and has astronger, more pungent flavor than theother varieties.
Origin & botanical facts
The cultivation of lettuce dates back more
than 2,500 years. From early Rome,where many varieties were developed, itspopularity spread throughout Europe andAsia. In 1885, an American agriculturalreport listed 87 varieties, considerablymore than the 4 commonly available intoday’s markets. In the United States,lettuce ranks a close second to potatoesas the most popular fresh vegetable.  The
four leading American producers areCalifornia, Arizona, Florida, and Colorado.
Lettuce is cultivated by direct seed-
ing into fields or by seedling transplan-tation into raised beds.  Loose leaf lettucematures about 6 weeks after seeds aresown; other types take longer to mature.Romaine takes the longest (up to 12 weeks).Head lettuce is harvested when the headsreach about 2 pounds.  Because lettuceis very perishable, harvesting is done byhand, and the crop is packed directly intoboxes in the field. Head lettuce, which isthe hardiest, can be shipped long distanceswithout damage, but leaf lettuce is morefragile and usually is grown for local andregional markets.
Uses
Lettuce should be used as soon after pur-
chase as possible, but if it must be stored,leaves that are wilting should be removed.Unwashed lettuce can be kept 3 to 4 daysat most in a perforated plastic bag in thevegetable crisper of the refrigerator.Lettuce is most often eaten raw in saladsand sandwiches.  Iceberg, leaf, or romaineLettuce
works well in Greek salad; romaine is oftenused for Caesar salad. Combinations oflettuce varieties make for tastier and morenutritious salads. A salad spinner improvesthe quality of salads by drying the greensquickly and completely.  In addition tobeing used in salads, lettuce leaves can beused to hold cooked vegetables, sandwichfillings, and condiments.
Nutrient composition
Romaine and loose leaf lettuce contain
five to six times the vitamin C and fiveto ten times the vitamin A of iceberg.Romaine and butterhead lettuce are goodsources of folate.
Nutrient Content
Romaine Loose leaf
(56 g) (56 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 8 10
Water (%) 95 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1 2
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 20 38
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 162 148
Magnesium 3 6
Phosphorus 25 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 146 RE 106 RE
Vitamin C 13 10
Thiamin 0.1 0
Riboflavin 0.1 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 00
Folate 76 μg 28 μg
Vitamin E 0 0 SERVING
SIZE:1 cup, shredded Vegetables 245
Nutrient Content
1/2cup 7 medium,
pieces, cooked
raw (35 g) (84 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 9 22
Water (%) 92 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 0 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1 4
Protein (grams) 1 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 2 5
Iron 0 1
Zinc 0 1
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 130 299
Magnesium 4 10
Phosphorus 36 73
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 0 RE
Vitamin C 1 3
Thiamin 0 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1 0.3
Niacin 1 4
Vitamin B 6 0 0.1
Folate 4 μg 15 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Mushrooms are fleshy fungi, only some of which are edible.  They usually have
thick stems and rounded caps with radiating gills on the underside.  The caps can be smooth or bumpy, honeycombed or ruffled, ranging in size from less than 1/2 inch in diameter to 12 inches and in color from snowy white to black, with a broad spectrum of colors in between.  They can be soft or crunchy, and they range in flavor from bland to nutty and earthy.
Varieties
Mushrooms come in literally thousands
of varieties. The most popular is the simple,cultivated white mushroom, the Agaricus ,
which is relatively small and has a mild,earthy flavor.  Young fungi of this varietyare called button mushrooms.  Variationson the white mushroom are the Crimini,which is dark brown, more firm, and hasa fuller flavor, and the larger Portabella, arelative of the Crimini.  Shiitake mush-rooms, up to 10 inches across, are a dark,umbrella-shaped variety native to Japanand Korea and have a pungent, woody fla-vor.  Enoki mushrooms are fragile andflower-like, with tiny white caps, long,slender stems, and a mild flavor.  Oystermushrooms are mild flavored and velvetytextured with large, fluted grayish caps onshort stems.  Chanterelles are golden toyellow-orange and have a rich, slightlyalmond flavor.  Porcini mushrooms arethick-stemmed and nutty in flavor, withlarge white or reddish brown caps.  Lesswell-known varieties, which grow mainlyin the wild, include the black trumpetmushroom, which is thin, brittle, andMushroom
Family Fungi
Scientific name Agaricus bisporus
Common name mushroom
♥Cooked mushrooms are an excellent
source of niacin and a good source 
of riboflavinno more than 2 to 3 days and only wiped
clean with a damp paper towel just beforeuse.  Mushrooms can be eaten raw orcooked.  White and Enoki mushroomscan be added raw to fresh green salads.Porcini mushrooms can be cooked withpork or chicken or combined withvegetables, rice, or pasta.  Shiitakes aretraditionally added to stir-fries and otherAsian dishes.  Portabella mushrooms oftenare sliced, grilled, and served as an appe-tizer, added to sandwiches, or stuffed withany number of ingredients and baked.Some mushroom varieties are also avail-able canned or dried.
Nutrient composition
Cooked mushrooms are an excellent source
of niacin and a good source of riboflavin.trumpet-shaped.  Because many species of
poisonous mushrooms can be commonlymistaken for edible ones, no one exceptexperienced mushroom hunters shouldattempt to gather wild mushrooms.  
Origin & botanical facts
Archaeological evidence indicates that
humans have been eating mushrooms forthousands of years.  The first cultivatorsof mushrooms appear to have been theGreeks and Romans.  Today, mushroomsare cultivated on every continent.
Mushroom cultivation does not require
darkness, as was once believed. Mostimpor tant to mushrooms are a constant
temperature, protection from drafts, goodcompost, and proper sanitation.  However,in the United States, most mushrooms aregrown in caves or climate-controlled,windowless buildings, because outdoorconditions are less suitable for mushroom
cultivation.
Uses
Mushrooms should be stored unwashed
in a loosely closed paper sack or in theiroriginal packaging on a refrigerator shelfNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 26
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 6
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 50
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 1
Potassium 258
Magnesium 46
Phosphorus 45
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 46 RE
Vitamin C 13
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 37 μg
Vitamin E 1 
246 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Family Malvaceae
Scientific name Hibiscus esculentus
Common name okra, lady’s finger,
gumbo, bindi, bamia
♥High in vitamin C
♥A good source of magnesiumThe okra is the immature seedpod of the okra plant.  The slightly curved, tapering
pods range from 2 to 7 inches in length and have green, fuzzy skin.  Numeroussoft white seeds are clustered along the length of the pod’s interior.  When cooked,the pods exude a juice that thickens any liquid to which it is added and can givethe vegetable a slimy texture.
Varieties
The many varieties of okra differ in shade
of green, shape (plump or slender), andsurface (ribbed or smooth).  The ClemsonSpineless variety has medium-green,angular pods, whereas the Emerald varietyis dark green and has smooth, roundpods.  Other varieties include Lee, AnnieOakley, and Prelude.
Origin & botanical facts
The okra plant originated in the Near
East and was brought to North Africaand the Middle East before being broughtto the Americas in the early 1700s.  Thename “okra” is derived from the T wi(from the Gold Coast of Africa) word“nkruman.”  In other parts of the world,this vegetable is referred to by the Africanname “gumbo” and by other regionalnames.  Whether West African slaves orFrench colonists of Louisiana brought theplant to the United States is unclear, butits widespread popularity in the Southsuggests that this region was the first inthe United States to be introduced tothe v egetable.  Texas, Georgia, Florida,SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, sliced (80 g)Okra
unless okra is added to soup or stew, it
should never be cut before cooking,because cutting releases the fluid that actsas a thickener and gives okra the slimytexture with which it is associated.  Thesecret to tender but crisp okra is to sautéthe whole pods for no more than 5 min-utes.  In the United States, okra is mostpopularly known as an ingredient ingumbo, a stew-like dish that is a specialtyof New Orleans Creole cuisine.  Okra isalso available in frozen and canned forms.
Nutrient composition
Okra is high in vitamin C and is a good
source of magnesium.
Alabama, and California are the leading
producers in the United States.
The okra plant is a tropical perennial
belonging to the cotton family.  Theplants begin to produce flowers about 60days after germination and can grow 3 to5 feet in height.  The maroon-centered,pale-yellow flowers develop into slenderseedpods that are harvested a few daysafter the flower petals have fallen.  Okra,the vegetable, should not be confusedwith Chinese okra, which is also knownas dishcloth gourd, sponge gourd, orloofah.
Uses
Because very young or fully developed
okra pods tend to be flavorless and stringy,pods that are 1 to 3 inches should beselected.  Fresh okra is very perishableand should be used as soon as possible.It can be stored in a plastic bag in therefrigerator for a couple of days.  Freshokra should be washed and thoroughlydried before cooking, because moisturecauses the pods to become slimy.  Also,Vegetables 247
The onion is a round or oval bulb that grows in multiple 
layers underground and is covered by a dry, papery skin at maturity. Its flavor can range from mild and sweet to sharp and pungent.
Varieties
The two main varieties of onion are fresh
onions and dry onions.  Scallions (alsocalled green onions), the most commontype of fresh onion, are pulled up beforethe bulb forms.  Sweet onions, anothertype of fresh onion, grown in warmerclimates, are harvested and sold duringthe spring and summer.  They are char-acterized by a light-colored, thin skin anda high water and sugar content, whichgives them a mild, sweet flavor.  The mostpopular sweet onions are the mild Mauifrom Hawaii, the juicy Vidalia fromGeorgia, and the round, golden Walla-Walla from Washington State.
Dry onions, also called storage onions,
are grown in cooler northern states andare available year-round.  They have adarker, thicker skin, a firmer texture, anda stronger, more pungent flavor.  Theyrange from white to yellow and red.Smaller varieties of dry onions includethe marble-sized pearl onions and theslightly larger boiling onions. Althoughred onions tend to be sweeter than yellowor white onions, the flavor of dry onionsis influenced more by variety and originthan by color.Origin & botanical facts
Onions were grown by the ancient
Egyptians, who regarded them as sacred.From Egypt, onions were brought toRome, where they acquired their currentname, derived from the Latin unio, mean-
ing “large pearl.”  Christopher Columbusbrought the onion from Europe to theAmericas.  Today, onions are among theworld’s leading vegetable crops.
Onion plants are propagated from
seeds or from seedlings and are plantedon raised beds, in fertile, well-balancedsoil.  They are hardy plants, able towith stand temperatures as low as 20°
Fahrenheit, and are generally planted in
early spring, 4 to 6 weeks before the lastspring freeze.  When first planted, youngonions concentrate their growth on newroots and green leaves or tops.  Bulb for-mation does not begin until the rightcombination of daylight, darkness, andtemperature is achieved.
Uses
Fresh onions should be refrigerated and
used soon after purchase, but dry (storage)onions can be kept in a cool, dry placefor weeks, or even months, without losingtheir nutrients.  The onion’s flavor andodor result primarily from sulfuric com-pounds.  When the onion is peeled andsliced, these are released as vapors, causing
the eyes to tear.  Chilling the onion beforeuse or peeling it under cold water canalleviate this problem.  Onions can beserved raw or cooked and can be added tonumerous other foods as a flavoring.Cooking onions tends to soften them andremoves any sharpness from the flavor.However, because heat makes onionsbitter, they should be cooked over low tomedium heat.  Onions can be boiled,steamed, baked, sautéed, scalloped, orgrilled.
Nutrient Composition
Raw onions contain phytochemicals that
include antioxidants, which promotehealth.
Nutrient Content
1/2 cup raw,
chopped, or 1
medium (80 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 30
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 7
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 16
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 126
Magnesium 8
Phosphorus 26
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 5
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 15 μg
Vitamin E 0Family Amaryllidaceae
Scientific name Allium cepa
Common name onion
♥Contains phytochemicals that
promote healthOnion248 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 1
Water (%) 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 0
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 0
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc –
Manganese –
Potassium 21
Magnesium 2
Phosphorus 2
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 20 RE
Vitamin C 5
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 0 
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.Parsley is a bright-green, multibranched biennial herb with
crisp leaves and greenish yellow flowers.  It is most often used as a seasoning or garnish and has a fresh, slightly peppery flavor.
Varieties
Although more than 30 varieties of
parsley exist, the most commonly usedin the United States are the curly-leavedand the Italian, or flat-leaved, varieties.Among the curled parsleys are MossCurled, Green Velvet, and ParamountImperial.  The flat-leaved variety, mostcommonly used in southeastern Europeand in Asia, has a more vibrant flavorthan the curled types.
Origin & botanical facts
Parsley is believed to have originated in
southern Europe, around the Mediterranean,and has been cultivated since about 320
B.C.  In ancient times, parsley wreaths
were believed to ward off drunkenness.According to Greek mythology, parsleysprang from the blood of Opheltes, theinfant son of King Lycurgus of Nemea,who was killed by a serpent while hisnurse directed some thirsty soldiers towater.  Thus, Greek soldiers associatedparsley with death and avoided contactwith it before battle.  A completely dif-ferent meaning is imparted to the herbin the Jewish Seder, the ritual Passovermeal.  Because parsley is one of the firstherbs to appear in the spring, it is usedin the Seder to symbolize new beginnings.The ancient Romans ate parsley aftermeals to freshen their breath, and the
Roman physician Galen prescribed it forepilepsy and as a diuretic.  In Europe dur-ing the Middle Ages, parsley was regard-ed as the devil’s herb and was believed tobring disaster on anyone who grew itunless it was planted on Good Friday.Nevertheless, medieval abbess andherbalist Hildegard of Bingen and the17th-century herbalist Nicholas Culpeperprescribed it in various forms for heartand chest pain and for arthritis.  Duringthe late 19th and early 20th centuries,parsley was prescribed for a variety ofmedical conditions.  However, none ofthese u ses is recognized in modern med-
icine.  Today, parsley is used primarily asa flavoring agent and a garnish.
Parsley is a hardy plant that can be
grown easily in almost any soil.  It can beplanted in the spring for summer use andin late summer for winter growth andspring harvesting.  Soaking the seedsovernight before planting helps germi-nation.  Flat-leaved parsley is cultivatedmore easily than the curly-leaved types.  
Uses
When selecting parsley, bunches that look
freshly picked, not wilted or yellow,SERVING
SIZE:1 Tblsp. chopped, raw (4 g)Parsley
should be chosen.  Fresh parsley can be
wrapped in damp paper towels and storedin an open plastic bag in the refrigeratorfor up to 1 week.
The curly-leaved varieties of parsley
are used as a flavoring, a salad ingredient,and a garnish.  Flat-leaved parsley, withits stronger flavor, is frequently used as aseasoning in Italian cooking.  Driedparsley may be substituted for the freshherb by using one-third of the amountof the fresh herb specified by the recipe.
Nutrient composition
A serving of parsley contains some
vitamin C. Family Apiaceae
Scientific name Petroselinum
crispum
Common name parsley
♥Contains some vitamin CVegetables 249
Varieties
Unlike their cousins the carrots, parsnips
are not bred for variety of color or shape,and the number of varieties is small.Modern varieties are bred to grow a fat,wedge-shaped root.  The most disease-resistant types are the Gladiator, a sweet,early-maturing parsnip, the Avonresister,and the Andover, a new American variety.The most popular parsnip is the AllAmerican, which has broad “shoulders,”white flesh, and a tender core.
Origin & botanical facts
Wild parsnips were eaten by the ancient
Greeks and Romans.  The word pastinaca ,
part of the modern scientific name forparsnips, was used by Pliny in the 1stcentury 
A.D., but it may have referred to
either parsnips or carrots, or both.According to Pliny, the parsnip was so val-ued by the Emperor Tiberius that he hadit imported to Rome from the banks ofthe Rhine.  Sixteenth-century Germansexploited the parsnip’s high sugar contentto make wine, jam, and sweet flour forcakes.  During the season of Lent, parsnipswere eaten with salt fish.  Today, parsnipsare cultivated throughout Europe,Canada, and the northern United States.Northern California and Michigan arethe leading domestic growers.
Although it is a biennial, the parsnip
is usually grown as an annual, harvestedbefore the second year’s leaves begin toappear.  Parsnips are propagated fromseeds and planted in deep, loamy, finesoil that has not been  fertilized recently.In cold climates, parsnips are planted inearly spring, but in areas where temper-atures rarely fall below 25 degrees, seedscan be sown in early fall for a springharvest.  The roots take from 100 to 120days to mature from seeds.  The greenstalks grow above ground, anywhere from9 inches to 2 feet in height, with smooth,oblong leaflets about 4 or 5 inches long.The flowers, when permitted to develop,are deep yellow.  Chilling the parsniproots, either before or after harvesting,results in a sweeter flavor.
Uses
The best parsnips are those that are small
to medium in size, crisp, and plump.They should be stored in a perforated plas-tic bag in the refrigerator crisper.  Becauseparsnips have a tough, fibrous core, theyare usually cooked before serving.  TheyParsnip
Nutrient Content
1/2cup
1/2cup sliced,
sliced, cooked
raw (67 g ) (78g)
Energy (kilocalories) 50 63
Water (%) 80 78
Dietary fiber (grams) 3 3
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 12 15
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 24 29
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 249 286
Magnesium 19 23
Phosphorus 47 54
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 0 RE
Vitamin C 11 10
Thiamin 0.1 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 1
Vitamin B 6 0 0.1
Folate 44 μg 45 μg
Vitamin E – 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient
value is not available.can be peeled before or after cooking.
Fresh parsnips that are not too tough canbe grated or shredded and dressed likecoleslaw or sliced very thin for a rawvegetable tray.  They can be baked,microwaved, parboiled, or steamed untiljust tender and then puréed and servedin place of mashed potatoes.  Whenadding parsnips to soups, stews, andcasseroles, they should be added about 15minutes before serving time, because over-cooking can turn them soft and tasteless.
Nutrient composition
Parsnips are a good source of folate, vitamin
C, and dietary fiber.Like the carrot and celery, the parsnip is a member of the Umbelliferae family, so-
named for the umbrella-like shape of their flower clusters.  It is a cold-weather,starchy root vegetable that resembles the carrot in shape but is pale yellow orivory.  It has a mild, celery-like fragrance and a sweet, but slightly peppery, flavor.  The parsnip root grows up to 18 inches in length and up to 3 to 4 inchesacross at the top.
Family Umbelliferae
Scientific name Pastinaca sativa L.
Common name parsnip
♥A good source of folate, 
vitamin C, and fiber250 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Peppers generally are divided into two
flavor categories:  sweet and hot.  Eachtype includes numerous varieties.  Themost common variety of sweet peppersis the round bell pepper, which is sold bycolor.  Although all bell peppers are greenwhen immature, most turn red whencompletely ripe, and some turn yellow,orange, purple, or brown.  Ripe, coloredbell peppers are usually sweeter than theirimmature, green counterparts.  Othervarieties of sweet pepper include bananapeppers, a mild variety that is the shapeand color of bananas; Cubanelle, atapered, light-green or yellow variety thatis more flavorful than bell peppers; andpimientos, thick-fleshed, heart-shapedpeppers that are ideal for roasting.
Hot peppers, also called chilis, vary
greatly in size, shape, and spiciness, and,like sweet peppers, they are green whenimmature.  Cherry peppers are small,round, and red and have a mild to mediumheat.  Anaheims are long, tapered, andPeppers
Family Solanaceae
Scientific name Capsicum annuum,
Capsicum  frutescens
Common name pepper
♥High in vitamin C
♥Sweet and hot red peppers are a good
source of vitamin APeppers are thick-fleshed fruits with a smooth, waxy skin and a crunchy texture.
They can be small and round, large and oblong, or almost any shape and size inbetween.  The skin and flesh of peppers range from golden to green, bright red, orange, purple, and brown.  Although all peppers are crunchy, their flavors range from sweet to extremely hot.
green and can be mildly pungent to hot,
depending on growing conditions.  Thesmall Habañero peppers, which may be red,green, or orange and either bell-shapedor teardrop-shaped, are extremely hot.Jalapeños, the most widely available chilis,are stubby and pointed, varying fromgreen to red and from mild to hot.  Driedjalapeños are known as chipotles.Poblaños are long and pointed and havea dark-green skin and a mild to mediumheat.  Dried poblaños are called Anchosand are dark-purple to brown with a sweetflavor.  Serraños, either green or red, aresmall and tapered and very hot.
Origin & botanical facts
Peppers are native to Asia and the Western
Hemisphere, where they have been aculinary staple for thousands of years, butthey were unknown in Europe untilColumbus brought them home from hisfirst voyage to the Americas.  In theUnited States, sweet peppers constitutemore than 60 percent of the pepper crop.The leading domestic growers of peppersare California and Florida.  Many pep-pers also are imported from LatinAmerica and Asia.
Both sweet and hot peppers are peren-
nial shrubs that thrive in tropical areasbut have been adapted as annuals in cold-er regions.  Plants grow to about 2 feettall and equally wide.  Proper floweringand fruit development require humidi-ty.  Sweet bell peppers are usually har-vested when they are 3 to 4 inches indiameter and are still green and crisp.The size of hot peppers at harvest dependson the variety.  Peppers are harvested byhand because they must be cut, ratherthan pulled, from the brittle stems.
Uses
Good-quality fresh peppers should be
firm and brightly colored.  Sweet pepperscan be stored unwashed in plastic bagsin the refrigerator for up to 1 week.Vegetables 251
Nutrient Content
Green Red
Energy (kilocalories) 18 18
Water (%) 88 88
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4 4
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 8 8
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 153 153
Magnesium 11 11
Phosphorus 21 21
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 35 RE 484 RE
Vitamin C 109 109
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 11 μg 11 μg
Vitamin E 0 0 SERVING
SIZE:hot peppers: 
1 pepper (45 g)Most varieties of peppers can be eaten
either raw or cooked.  Sweet peppersfrequently are julienned or chopped andadded raw to salads or  cooked in soups,stews, and stir-fries.  They also can beroasted (which makes it easy to remove
the skin and adds smoky flavor) and mar-
inated, or they may be stuffed and bakedor microwaved.  Hot peppers are used ina wide variety of Latin American andAsian recipes.  Raw hot peppers can bechopped and added to salsas, relishes, andsalad dressings.  The internal veins andseeds, which can be bitter or hot, can bePeppers
removed before the pepper is used.  Somemilder types are used whole, stuffed withcheese or meat, and baked to make dish-es such as chilis relleños.  Hot peppersalso can be pickled or dried, and mosttypes of hot pepper are commerciallyavailable in their dried form.
Nutrient composition
Both sweet and hot peppers are high in
vitamin C.  Sweet and hot red peppers area good source of vitamin A (beta-carotene).Red peppers contain the phytochemicalcapsaicin, which has been approved by theFood and Drug Administration for use asa topical analgesic. 
Nutrient Content
Yellow Red Green
Energy (kilocalories) 20 20 20
Water (%) 92 92 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 1 1
Fat (grams) 0 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5 5 5
Protein (grams) 1 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 8 7 7
Iron 0 0 0
Zinc 0 0 0
Manganese 0 0 0
Potassium 159 132 131
Magnesium 9 7 7
Phosphorus 18 14 14
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 18 RE 425 RE 47 RE
Vitamin C 138 142 66
Thiamin 0 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0 0
Niacin 1 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.2 0.2
Folate 20 μg 16 μg 16 μg
Vitamin E – 1 1
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient value is not available.SERVING
SIZE:
sweet peppers: 1/2 cup, chopped (75 g)252 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Potatoes are tubers, fleshy underground stems that bear minute leaves, each of
which develops a bud capable of producing a new plant.  Potatoes are cultivatedin a variety of sizes, shapes, and colors.  Their weight can range from 1 ounce tomore than a pound.  The skin can be smooth or rough, and tan, white, red, or any of a variety of less common colors.  The flesh is usually white butcan be yellow to deep orange andhas a smooth to mealy texture.  In flavor, they range from bland to buttery sweet.
Varieties
Potatoes are categorized by flesh color,
use, or age.  The white potatoes includeseveral varieties.  The Russet has a thick,netted, brown skin and a some what dry,
mealy texture.  The Round White and the
Long White have a more moist, waxy tex-ture and smooth, tan skins.  The RoundRed potato has a smooth, reddish skinand creamy white, firm flesh.  Yellow, orsweet, potatoes  such as the Yukon Gold(not to be confused with the sweet potato)have a thicker brown skin, golden flesh,and a sweet, buttery flavor.  Specialty vari-eties, including blue and purple potatoes,are nutty in flavor and difficult to find inmost markets.  White potatoes can besubdivided by use into boiling potatoesand baking potatoes. F inally, potatoes
can be subdivided into new and storagetypes.  All new potatoes are boilers byvirtue of their low starch content and theirsmooth skins.
Origin & botanical facts
The potato, a member of the nightshade
plants, originated in the Andes MountainsNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 57
Water (%) 75
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 13
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 239
Magnesium 15
Phosphorus 31
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 8
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 6 μg
Vitamin E 0 SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, baked (61 g)Potato
can be stored unwashed and unwrapped
in a cool, dry, dark, well-ventilated areafor weeks.  The potato is a versatilevegetable that can be baked, boiled, fried,or microwaved.  Potatoes can be cookedalone or in combination with meats orother vegetables.  Russet potatoes are themost common variety used for baking.Russet, Round White, and Yellow potatoesare often mashed.  Long White potatoeswork well in potato salads, soups, andstews.  Red potatoes are the type usuallyused in German potato salad.
Nutrient composition
Potatoes are a good source of vitamins C
and B6and are a source of potassium.of Peru, where more than 800 varieties of
potatoes were once cultivated by the Incas onterraced farmland.  The Spanish conquestof South America spread the cultivation ofpotatoes worldwide.  Eventually, potatoesbecame a dietary staple throughout Europe.Today, potatoes are one of the most impor-tant food crops in the world.  In the UnitedStates, annual potato consumption reaches125 pounds per person.  Some of the lead-ing potato-producing states are California,Colorado, Idaho, and Maine.  Potatoes canbe propagated from true seeds or from piecesof tubers that contain two or more buds andsome potato flesh to nourish the develop-ing sprouts.  Because exposure to sunlightcan turn growing potatoes green and bitter,tuber pieces and seeds are planted deeply,and often the soil is protected from sunlightwith straw mulch.  Potato plants grow toabout 18 inches tall and 4 feet wide.  Somedevelop flowers and small toxic green fruitsresembling green tomatoes.  Potatoes areharvested about 4 months after planting bycarefully prying them  out of the ground toavoid puncturing or bruising them.
Uses
Potatoes should be heavy for their size and
free of sprouts or any greenish cast.  TheyFamily Solanaceae
Scientific name Solanum tuberosum L.
Common name potato
♥A good source of vitamins C and B6
and a source of potassiumVegetables 253
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 12
Water (%) 95
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 2
Protein (grams) 0
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 12
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 135
Magnesium 5
Phosphorus 10
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 1 RE
Vitamin C 13
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 16 μg
Vitamin E 0The radish is a root vegetable of the mustard family, resembling beets and turnips
but with a unique, peppery flavor that can range from mild to very sharp.  Thename comes from the Latin radix , meaning “root.”  Radishes can be round, oval,
or elongated, and they range from less than 1 inch to 2 feet long.  Although skincolor varies from white to yellow, red, purple, and black, the interior flesh is usually white.
Varieties
Radishes are divided into spring- and
winter-harvested types, with additionalvariations in shape and color in eachcategory.  Spring radishes, which arepulled before they reach 1 inch in diameter,include the round, red Cherry Belle; theWhite Icicle, which is oblong, about 6inches long, and mild in flavor; andRainbow Mix and Easter Egg varieties,which include purple-skinned roots.Winter radishes have a stronger, morepungent flavor and a coarser texture.They are larger than spring radishes,about the weight of a turnip, and rangefrom white to black.  White varietiesinclude the Japanese daikon, a long, carrot-shaped, sharp-flavored radish.
Origin & botanical facts
Radishes are an ancient vegetable, first cul-
tivated thousands of years ago either in theeastern Mediterranean region or in the FarEast and quickly spread throughout theworld.  The earliest radishes to be culti-vated were the black varieties.  Long, taper-ing white radishes were first mentioned in16th-century European literature, andabout 200 years later, round radishes firstappeared, along with the red-skinned types.In the United States today, California andFlorida are the leading radish growers.
From the top of the root, the leaves of
the radish plant form a rosette that can growto 1 foot in height. The radish is a cool-weather annual, one of the easiest vegeta-bles to grow. Propagation is by direct seedinginto a  sandy soil with consistent moisture.Spring radishes can be planted as soon asthe ground is soft.  The fastest-growingvarieties mature in about 3 weeks.  Winterradishes are planted in late summer so theycan mature in the cool temperatures ofautumn.  These larger radishes take at least55 days to reach a reasonable size.
Uses
Radishes that are firm with bright, crisp
greens are the best.  The leaves should beRadish
SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup raw, sliced (13 medium) (58 g)removed from the roots before storing in
a perforated plastic bag in the refrigeratorvegetable crisper.  The roots can be storedfor several weeks to a month.
In Western cuisines, radishes are eaten
raw in salads or used as a colorful gar-nish.  However, in Chinese and Japanesecuisines, radishes are a staple consumedraw, preserved, or cooked.  The Japanesechop or grate daikon and use it as a condi-ment for sushi, sashimi, and many otherdishes.
Nutrient composition
Radishes are high in vitamin C and con-
tain bioflavonoids and indoles that mayhelp prevent cancer.Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Raphanus sativus L.
Common name radish
♥High in vitamin C
♥A source of phytochemicals that 
may help prevent cancer254 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
1/2cup,1/2cup,
raw cooked
(70 g) (85 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 25 33
Water (%) 90 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 6 7
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 33 41
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 236 277
Magnesium 16 20
Phosphorus 41 48
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 41 RE 48 RE
Vitamin C 18 16
Thiamin 0.1 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0.1
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 15 μg 13 μg
Vitamin E 0 0The rutabaga, a member of the cabbage family, is a root vegetable similar to the
turnip, but it is rounder, larger, denser, and sweeter and has a yellow flesh.Rutabagas have a thin, pale-yellow skin and smooth, waxy leaves.  The root has a crisp texture and a sweet, peppery flavor.
Varieties
The differences among varieties of rutabaga
are primarily in the color and shape ofthe root.  Most types have yellow flesh.The American Purple Top is purple abovethe ground and light yellow below, withyellow flesh.  The Laurentian has a dark-purple top, a pale, smooth root, and yellowflesh.  The Magre has an attractive, roundroot shape, and the Merrick is one of therare white-fleshed rutabaga varieties.
Origin & botanical facts
The rutabaga originated from a chance
hybridization between cabbage and turnipplants.  A relatively new vegetable com-pared with those that have been aroundfor thousands of years, it probablyemerged in medieval gardens whereturnips and cabbage were grown side byside.  The first mention of rutabagasoccurred in European botanical literatureof the 17th century.  Rutabagas becamevery popular in Scandinavia (the Swedishword rotabagge means “round root”), from
where they were brought to England inthe late 18th century, acquiring the name“swede.”  Their cultivation in NorthAmerica began early in the 19th century.Today they are grown in the northernstates and Canada, because hot weather
can damage the crop.  Most domesticrutabagas are imported from Canada.
Rutabagas are biennials that thrive in
cool temperatures and are best producedas a fall crop.  Because they require a longgrowing season, rutabagas should beplanted in the early spring in light butrich soil with good drainage.  Seeds aresown directly into fields, and the plantsmust be irrigated regularly to produce asweet, tender crop.  The roots are readyfor consumption about 3 months aftersowing, when they are 4 to 5 inches indiameter.  Harvesting should occur whenthe ground is dry so that very little soiladheres to the roots.  Because they areresistant to fall frost and light winterfreezes, rutabagas can be mulched, left inthe ground, and harvested throughoutthe fall and winter.  If they are pulledimmediately, they can be refrigerated orstored in cool, underground cellars.Rutabagas are available year-round.
Uses
Rutabagas that are smooth-skinned, firm,
and heavy for their size should be chosen.They can be refrigerated in a plastic bagRutabaga
up to 2 weeks.  Rutabagas should bewashed, trimmed, and peeled beforecooking.  They can be cubed or slicedand boiled, steamed, or baked, thenmashed or puréed and tossed with otheringredients.  Rutabagas also make a tastyaddition to soups and stews.  Their heartyflavor serves as a complement to other strongflavors, such as pork, duck, and spicy dishes.The flavor of rutabagas is enhanced byherbs such as basil, dill, rosemary, savory,and thyme; spices such as ginger andcloves; and orange or lemon juice.
Nutrient composition
Rutabagas are high in vitamin C and are
a source of potassium.Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica napus L.
Common name rutabaga
♥High in vitamin C and a source of
potassiumVegetables 255
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 46
Water (%) 81
Dietary fiber (grams) 2
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 10
Protein (grams) 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 32
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 191
Magnesium 12
Phosphorus 38
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 3
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 10 μg
Vitamin E 0Varieties
Salsify can be divided into three types:
the most familiar white salsify, blacksalsify, and  Spanish salsify.  They are allsimilar in shape, flavor, flesh color, and size.However, black salsify, as its name implies,is black on the surface, and Spanish salsifyis slightly wider in diameter than the othervarieties.  The most popular variety forthe home garden is the MammothSandwich Island, a subspecies of the whitesalsify which has French blue flowers.The Black Giant Russian is the mostcommon of the Spanish salsify.
Origin & botanical facts
In its wild form, salsify is believed to have
been a part of the diet of the ancientGreeks, although the vegetable was nota popular culinary item until the mid-17th century.  Salsify appeared in NorthAmerica and in England during the 18thcentury.  The salsify plant is also knownas “vegetable oyster” or “oyster plant”because its mild, sweet flavor is reminis-cent of that of the oyster, although someprefer to call it the “goatsbeard plant”because its grass-like leaves are bunchedin a manner resembling a “goatee.”
The plant is a biennial, alternating
yearly between purple and rose-coloredflowers that resemble dandelions and areclosely related to lettuce and chicory.  Theroots grow best in rich, slightly alkaline,fine-textured, loose sand and after expo-sure to the cold.  It is an easy vegetableto grow and is available year-round,although the peak season in the UnitedStates is from June through February.Salsify is a more popular vegetable inEurope, which may explain its greateravailability in markets specializing inGreek and Italian foods.  During harvest,care must be taken not to damage thebrittle roots because bruised salsify losesmuch of its flavor.  After harvest, the rootsmust be kept in cold storage at 90 to 98percent humidity to retain their fresh-ness, because dehydrated roots shrivel andalso lose their flavor.
Uses
A firm, well-formed, medium-size root
that is heavy for its size is the best choice.Oversized roots are tough and woody andSERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup sliced, 
cooked (68 g)Salsify
should be avoided.  Salsify oxidizes very
quickly when peeled and must be placedin cold lemon water to prevent darkening.If salsify is stored with the tops removedin a sealed plastic bag in a cold, moiststorage area, it may keep up to 4 months.
Salsify can be baked, steamed, fried,
served in soups, or cut into cubes andstewed.  If roots are to be steamed, theyshould be scrubbed and peeled beforecooking.  The sliced root can be addedto savory vegetable pies.  In addition,young shoots and flower buds can be usedas a substitute for asparagus or added rawto salads.
Nutrient composition
Salsify is not a significant source of nutrients.Salsify is a white-fleshed vegetable root that could easily be mistaken for a yellow-
ish gray carrot or parsnip.  The salsify plant, which is 10 to 12 inches in lengthand has a diameter of about 2 1/2 inches, is cultivated primarily for its slenderedible roots, althoughthe young tender leaves, often called “chards,” are commonly used in salads.
Family Asteraceae
Scientific name Tragopogon
porrifolius
Common name salsify, vegetable
oyster, oyster plant256 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 16
Water (%) 90
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 36
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 138
Magnesium 10
Phosphorus 19
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 20 RE
Vitamin C 9
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 32 μg
Vitamin E 0Varieties
Scallion varieties may be classified by day
length (the number of hours of daylightthat optimizes their growth), market use,and bulb color.  Sweet Spanish is anexample of a long-day variety (one thatdevelops best in areas with more hours ofdaylight and in midsummer).  SouthportWhite Globe onions are grown as scallionsin areas with short days, where the short-er day length prevents bulb formation.Crossing onions with a variety called theJapanese bunching onion ( Allium fistu-
losum ), an onion that resembles a scallion
but is more bitter, results in hybrids thatcan be grown as scallions in the summerand in areas with long days.
Origin & botanical facts
Scallions are propagated from seeds
planted in raised beds of fertile, well-pre-pared, well-balanced soil with good mois-ture retention.  They are hardy plants,capable of withstanding temperatures aslow as 20° Fahrenheit.  However, minimaltemperatures of 55° are necessary for theplants to emerge from the soil, and optimalgrowth occurs when the temperatureranges between 68° and 77° Fahrenheit.Growth of scallions also depends on daylength.  Scallions are planted in fall,spring, and summer and are ready forharvest 2 to 4 months later.  Hand harvestis required, usually accomplished byundercutting the base of the plant.Scallions are available year-round, but thesupply peaks from July through October.California is the leading domestic supplierof scallions.  Illinois, Ohio, and NewJersey contribute a small proportion of thecrop.  During the winter and spring,scallions are imported from Mexico.
Uses
Scallions with slender bases tend to be
milder and sweeter.  Those with the crispiestleaves, shiny bright-green stalks, and noyellowing or tears are the best.  Scallionsshould be stored in a plastic bag in therefrigerator crisper.
Scallions can be consumed both raw
and cooked.  Like mature onions, theyare used primarily to enhance the flavorof other dishes.  Before use, they shouldbe rinsed well, and the roots and any wiltedleaves should be removed.  The entireplant can be sliced or chopped and addedSERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, chopped (50 g)Scallion
raw to salads and dips.  Mixed with
cottage cheese or cream cheese, they makea tasty spread for bread or a dip for rawvegetables.  Scallions are a flavorful addi-tion to soups, stews, stir-fries, casseroles,cooked rice, tomato sauces, and omelets.They also can be grilled, braised, or stir-fried alone, or seasoned with ginger andgarlic, to make a tasty vegetable dish toserve with rice and grilled meats.  TheIrish include scallions in a traditional dishcalled “champ,” which is composed ofpotatoes and cooked scallions mashedtogether to produce a savory, green side dish.
Nutrient composition
Scallions are a good source of vitamin C.The scallion, with its long, straight, narrow green top and white base, is a true
but very immature onion.  Often called a green onion, in reality it is picked at an even earlier stage than true green onions, usually before it can begin to form a bulb.  The scallion is crunchy and has a peppery, fresh flavor that 
is similar to, but milder than, that of the onion.
Family Amaryllidaceae
Scientific name Allium cepa var. aggregatum
Common name scallion, eschalot, cebollin
♥A good source of vitamin CVegetables 257
Nutrient Content
Yellow 
Green (wax)
Energy (kilocalories) 22 22
Water (%) 89 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 5 5
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 29 29
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 187 187
Magnesium 16 16
Phosphorus 24 24
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 42 RE 5 RE
Vitamin C 6 6
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0.1 0.1
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 00
Folate 21 μg 21 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Snap, green, or string beans are the beans most frequently consumed in the
United States.  Although they are members of the legume family, the long, slendergreen, yellow, or purple pods of snap beans are harvested while the seeds are still immature, and both pod and seeds are eaten as a vegetable.  “Snap” refers to the sound the fresh pod makes when broken into pieces. 
Varieties
The “string” in “string beans” refers to a
string-like fiber that, until the late 19thcentury, characterized all fresh beans andhad to be removed before the beans wereeaten.  Today, modern hybrid varieties nolonger have the “string” and are referredto as snap beans. Many varieties of greensnap beans are grown throughout theUnited States.  Variants include pods thatare pale yellow, called wax beans.  Theterm “French green bean” is sometimesused to refer to small, young green beansthat are cooked and eaten whole (alsocalled haricots or haricots vertes) or tomature green beans that have been cutinto diagonal strips. Purple snap beans,available in limited supply, turn greenwhen cooked. R omano beans, also called
Italian or Scarlet R unner beans, are sim-
ilar to but flatter than snap beans. 
Origin & botanical facts
Snap beans, like kidney beans, white
beans, pinto beans, and cranberry beans,are members of the common bean species,all of which trace their origins to theWestern Hemisphere. Although remainsSnapBeans
Family Leguminosae
Scientific name Phaseolus vulgaris
Common name green beans, string beans,
snap beans, wax beans, yellow snapbeans, romano beans, haricots
♥Yellow and green snap beans are a
good source of vitamin Cthe refrigerator for up to 5 days.  The
beans also are available frozen and canned,both whole and prechopped.  Fresh snapbeans can be steamed or simmered untilthe pods are tender.  Steaming is thepreferred method of cooking because itpreserves nutrients.  Chopped into 1- or2-inch sections, snap beans can be tossedin salads, stir-fried, included in soups andstews, or served as a side dish. 
Nutrient composition
Yellow and green snap beans are a good
source of vitamin C.
SERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, cooked (67 g)of common beans from Central American
sites have been carbon dated to 7000 B.C.,
the original subspecies have not beenidentified. Indigenous peoples of Southand Central America and AmericanIndians crossed the beans to create manysubspecies and varieties. Common beans,including the snap bean, were broughtto Europe by Columbus and other 15th-and 16th-century explorers. Today, manyvarieties of snap beans are grown through-out the world.
The growth habit of snap beans is
used to divide them into two varieties:bush beans and pole beans (which mustbe trained to a pole or trellis).  Both arewarm-weather vegetables that must beplanted after the danger of frost haspassed.  The beans are harvested whenthey are rapidly growing, about 8 to 10days after flowering.  At this stage, thecolor is bright and the pod is fleshy withsmall, green seeds.  Leaving the pods onthe plants too long decreases plant yieldand results in tough, dull-colored pods.  
Uses
Snap beans are available year-round.  The
peak season in North America spans fromMay to October.  They can be stored in258 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Varieties
Spinach comes in two basic types:  savoy
(curly leaf) and flat (smooth leaf).  Savoyhas crinkly dark-green leaves.  Flat-leafspinach has unwrinkled, spade-shapedleaves and a slightly milder taste thansavoy.  A third type that is increasing inpopularity is the semi-savoy, whose slightlycurly leaves provide some of the texture ofsavoy but are easier to clean.  All varietieshave the same appearance when cooked.
Origin & botanical facts
Spinach probably originated in southwest
Asia or the western Himalayas, but wildvarieties also grow in North Africa andIran.  The leafy vegetable was first culti-vated by the Persians.  Its cultivationreached China in the 7th century 
A.D.and
Europe in the 9th century, when it wasintroduced to Spain by the Arabs, whonamed it.  Today, spinach is grown andenjoyed in many parts of the world.  
Spinach is an annual plant that
requires cool, damp weather and rich,moist soil.  Spinach seed can be planted
in early spring or in autumn, dependingon the variety.  Hardier types will survivethe winter in well-drained soils and can beharvested until spring.  More tender vari-eties are planted in spring, as early asFebruary, for summer harvest.  Spinachis ready to be harvested about 6 weeksafter planting, when the largest leaves are6 to 8 inches long.
Uses
Spinach leaves that are crisp and bright
to dark green are best.  The leaves can berefrigerated in a plastic bag for 3 days.
Spinach can be served raw or cooked.
The flat-leaf variety, with its slightlymilder flavor, is generally preferred as araw salad green.  Spinach should becooked very quickly, either by steaming orby sautéing with a minimum of liquid,just until the leaves wilt.  The leaves alsocan be added to soups, casseroles, andstews.  A variety of seasonings, such aslemon juice, soy sauce, horseradish,tomato sauce, or nutmeg, add flavor tospinach dishes.  Chopped, seasoned
spinach also makes a flavorful stuffing formushroom caps or a filling for savorypastries.
Nutrient composition
Raw spinach is high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and a good source of vitaminC and folate.  Cooked spinach is high invitamin A (beta-carotene) and folate andis a good source of vitamin C, riboflavin,vitamin B
6, calcium, iron, and magnesium.
Although spinach is a good source of ironand calcium, oxalic acid (a chemical thatis present in the leaves) inhibits the body’sabsorption of these nutrients.  Absorptionof iron can be increased by eating spinachwith a fruit or vegetable that containsvitamin C.Spinach
Family Chenopodiaceae
Scientific name Spinacia oleracea L.
Common name spinach
♥Raw spinach is high in vitamin 
A (beta-carotene) and a goodsource of vitamin C and folate
♥Cooked spinach is high in vitaminA and folate and is a good sourceof vitamin C, riboflavin, vitamin
B6, calcium, iron, and magnesium
Nutrient Content
1 cup,1/2cup,
raw (30 g) cooked (90 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 7 21
Water (%) 92 91
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 1 3
Protein (grams) 1 3
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 30 122
Iron 1 3
Zinc 0 1
Manganese 0 1
Potassium 167 419
Magnesium 24 78
Phosphorus 15 50
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 202 RE 737 RE
Vitamin C 8 9
Thiamin 0 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1 0.2
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.2
Folate 58 μg 131 μg
Vitamin E 1 1Spinach is a leafy vegetable that grows in a dark-green rosette about 8 to 10 inches
across.  The leaves may be flat or curly, depending on the variety.  Cooked spinachhas a pungent, earthy flavor and can have a mushy texture; raw spinach is milder and crisp.Vegetables 259
Nutrient Content
1/2cup1/2cup
summer, winter,
cooked cooked
(90 g) (103 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 18 40
Water (%) 94 89
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 3
Fat (grams) 0 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 4 9
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 24 14
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 173 448
Magnesium 22 8
Phosphorus 35 21
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 26 RE 365 RE
Vitamin C 5 10
Thiamin 0 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 18 μg 29 μg
Vitamin E 0 0Although thought of and eaten as a vegetable, squash is a fleshy, edible fruit
related to melons and cucumbers.  Numerous varieties of squash are available in awide assortment of colors, shapes, and sizes.  They can range from the patty pan(scallop) variety, which weighs only a couple of ounces, to the pumpkin, which can attain weights of up to 200 pounds.  The rind can be smooth, ridged, or bumpy and can range from white or cream-colored to yellow, orange, green, and even light blue.  Squash can be cylindrical, bell- orclub-shaped, and simply round or oblong.  Although wild squash is bitter, cultivated varieties are generally sweeter or bland and have a soft to crunchy texture when cooked.
Varieties
Squash is generally divided into two basic
types, summer and winter, althoughseasonal distinction is no longer accuratebecause both types are now available  year-round.  Winter, or hard-shell, squash isallowed to mature on the plant and hasa thick rind; large, tough seeds; and dark-yellow to orange flesh.  Summer, or soft-shell, squash, which is harvested beforeit matures completely, has a more tenderrind and lighter-colored flesh.
Winter squash types include acorn
squash, shaped something like an acornthat tapers at one end, with a dark-green,ridged rind; banana squash, a large,cylinder-shaped squash with a thick, paleskin and finely textured flesh; buttercup
squash, a squat, dark-green vegetable withlighter stripes and rather dry flesh; but-ternut squash, shaped like a long bell witha tan rind and mild flavor; and spaghettisquash, an oval, yellow variety whosemild, pale-yellow flesh forms crisp-tex-tured spaghetti-like strands when cooked.
Among the summer squash varieties,
zucchini, with its mild flavor and cucumber-like appearance, is the most popular inthe United States. Although zucchini usuallyhas a smooth, green skin, one variant, thegolden zucchini, has deep-yellow skinand a sweeter flavor. Other summersquashes include the chayote, a pale- green,
pear-shaped fruit with a large central seed
and a fairly thick, ridged skin; the pattypan, a disk-shaped variety with a scal-loped edge, white to pale-green skin, andwhite, succulent flesh; and yellow crook-neck and yellow straightneck, which havelemon-colored skin and bulbous blossomends, tapering to narrow stem ends thatare either curved or straight. Within someof these types are further variations.Squash
Family Cucurbitaceae
Scientific name Cucurbita pepo, Cucurbita
maxima, Cucurbita moschata
Common name squash
♥Winter squash is high in vitamin A
(beta-carotene) and is a good sourceof potassium, fiber, and vitamin COrigin & botanical facts
The squash probably originated in
Mexico or Central America.  Althoughedible wild types are no longer known,related species with small, very bitter fruitsare still found in this region.  Squash wasfirst gathered by indigenous peoplearound 8000 
B.C., but apparently only
the seeds were eaten, because the fruitswere unappealing.  Cultivation of squashmay have begun around Tehuacan, southof Mexico City, around 3400 
B.C.  From
there, peoples throughout North andSouth America adopted squash cultiva-tion.  By the time squash was introducedto Europe in the 16th century, most ofthe modern types were already developed.Squash quickly became a staple in the260 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
diets of European colonists in America.
New England settlers adapted the word“squash” from several Indian names forthe vegetable, all of which meant “some-thing eaten raw.”  Both George Washingtonand Thomas Jefferson cultivated zucchiniand other types of summer squash ontheir Virginia estates.  By the 19th century,North American merchant seamen werebringing home new varieties of squashfrom all over Central and South America.Today, squash, gourds, and pumpkins aregrown in many parts of the world andrank 11th among the leading vegetablesof the world.  Although the United Statesdoes not produce a large volume of squashcommercially, many people cultivate itin home gardens.  California and Floridaare the primary U.S. producers, andMexico and Costa Rica contribute sub-stantially to the U.S. supply.
Squash is a hardy, warm-weather
annual that grows on vines or small busheswith trailing tendrils.  Seeds can be sownin seedbeds early in spring or directly intofields later in the season, after danger offrost has passed, in hills of warm, well-fertilized soil.  Vines must be trellised toprovide support for the heavy fruit.Although most types of squash prefer fullsun, winter varieties can tolerate lightshade.  For ideal growth, the plantsrequire considerable moisture, especial-ly after flowering.  Most squash blossomsare yellow or orange, and both male andfemale flowers form on the same plant.Because the female blooms open for only1 day, and only from dawn until mid-morning, pollination at the right timeand place is critical.  In addition, thenumber of seeds and the size and shape ofthe fruits are determined by the amountof pollen deposited.  Inadequate pollina-tion of summer squash results in small,misshapen fruit or none at all.  The firstcrop of summer squash is ready to har-vest about 50 days after planting, and allof the fruits must be harvested at this stagein order for more to grow.  If the fruitsare allowed to mature, the plants stopproducing.  In contrast, winter squash isleft on the plant until it matures, a processthat takes 95 to 115 days, depending onvariety.  All are picked after the leaveshave turned brown.
Uses
When selecting winter squash, it is
important to choose one that is heavy forits size and has a thick, hard shell.  Ifstored in a cool, dry place, whole wintersquash can keep well for several months.Cut pieces should be tightly wrapped andrefrigerated.  Winter squash is alwayscooked before eating, usually after thefruit has been cut open and the seeds andfibers scooped out.  (The seeds of mostwinter squash varieties can be dried orroasted and consumed as a snack.)  Aheavy chef’s knife or cleaver may benecessary to cut the hard shell.  Halvescan be baked and served plain or stuffedwith cheese, meats, or other vegetables.Baking conserves the nutrients in the fleshand enhances its sweetness.  Some espe-cially tough-shelled varieties can be bakedor steamed whole (after piercing the flesh)and then cut up.  Squash pieces alsocan be boiled or steamed in broth,
microwaved, or sautéed in oil.  Baked orsteamed winter squash is deliciousmashed or puréed and seasoned withspices such as fresh ginger, curry, cinna-mon, cloves, or allspice or with sweeten-ers such as brown sugar, maple syrup, orhoney.  Squash also can be mixed withonions, garlic, and herbs or with othervegetables such as corn, tomatoes, andbell peppers.  Chunks of squash can beadded to soups, stews, and casseroles.Any type of mashed or puréed wintersquash can be used in place of cannedpumpkin in soups, pies, cookies, or quickbreads.  Spaghetti squash is often servedas a substitute for pasta, topped withtomato sauce, pesto, or other sauces.Cooked squash also can be frozen for lateruse.  To prevent squash from becomingwatery during cooking, lightly salt theraw flesh, place it on absorbent paper todraw out the moisture, and rinse.
When purchasing summer squash,
small, firm, shiny squash that are heavyfor their size should be selected.  Squashcan be stored in perforated plastic bagsin the refrigerator crisper.  Summer squashcan be eaten raw or cooked, and the tenderskin is always left on.  Raw summersquash can be sliced and added to greensalads or julienned to use with dips.Grated zucchini is used to make moistbreads and cakes.  Quick steaming,grilling, and stir-frying are the best cook-ing methods for conserving nutrients.Several varieties cooked together make acolorful and tasty combination seasonedwith herbs such as dill, basil, thyme, mint,tarragon, marjoram, or oregano.  Themild flavor of summer squash comple-ments soups, stews, casseroles, and mixedvegetables.  Immature summer squash isused as an attractive edible garnish or sidedish.  In addition, the flowers are edible.
Nutrient composition
Winter squash is high in vitamin A (beta-
carotene) and is a good source of potas-sium, fiber, and vitamin C.Vegetables 261
The sweet potato, a smooth-skinned, oblong or elongated tropical tuber, is not
related to the white potato.  Instead, it is a member of the morning glory family.Nor is the sweet potato a yam, which actually is a completely different vegetable.The sweet potato’s smooth skin may vary from pale yellow to vivid orange to deep purple, depending on the variety.  The sweet flesh may be light yellow, pink, red, or deep orange.
Varieties
Sweet potatoes are categorized into two
basic types.  The orange-fleshed varieties,with tan to brownish red or purple skin,a plump shape, and sweet flavor, are the mostcommon.  The yellow-fleshed potatoes tend
to be firmer, dryer, and less sweet andhave a slightly mealy texture and yellow-ish tan to fawn-colored skins. Currentvarieties of sweet potato include theBeauregard, the Garnet, the Hernandez,and the Jewel.
Origin & botanical facts
The sweet potato, a native of the tropical
regions of the Americas, was importantin the diet of the Aztec people of Mexicoand the Incas of Peru.  Remains of sweetpotatoes that are 10,000 to 20,000 yearsold have been found in Peruvian caves.Sweet potatoes were introduced to Europeby Columbus, later brought to Asia byother explorers, and widely cultivated inthe American colonies, where theybecame a dietary staple for early settlersand Revolutionary War soldiers.  Today,sweet potatoes are cultivated in manyparts of the world.  Major suppliersNutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 155
Water (%) 73
Dietary fiber (grams) 5
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 36
Protein (grams) 3
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 42
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 1
Potassium 522
Magnesium 30
Phosphorus 83
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 3,273 RE
Vitamin C 37
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.2
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 34 μg
Vitamin E 0 SERVING
SIZE:
3/4 cup, baked (150 g)SweetPotato
microwaved.  Although cooked potatoes
are naturally sweet, apple cider, lemonjuice, orange peel, orange juice, pineapple,nutmeg, allspice, cinnamon, and gingerenhance their sweetness.  They are a tastyingredient in casseroles and stews,especially with apple or other fruit slicesadded.  They also can be substituted forpuréed pumpkin in baked breads, cakes,cookies, custards, pies, and muffins.
Nutrient composition
Fresh sweet potatoes are high in vitamin
A (beta-carotene) and vitamin C.  Theyare a good source of vitamin B
6, potassium,
and fiber.  Canned and frozen potatoesare considerably less nutritious.Family Convolvulaceae
Scientific name Ipomoea batatas
Common name sweet potato
♥High in vitamin A (beta-carotene)
and vitamin C
♥A good source of vitamin B6,
potassium, and fiber
include China, Indonesia, Vietnam, and
Uganda.  In the United States, sweet potatoesrank 10th among vegetables grown.North Carolina, Louisiana, California,and Georgia are the major suppliers.Although their peak season is the autumnand early winter, they are sold year-round.Sweet potato tubers can be harvested bymachine, but they must be handled care-fully, because their thin skin bruises easily,which can lead to rapid spoilage.  Afterharvest, sweet potatoes can be stored forabout 10 days at 85° Fahrenheit and 85percent humidity to heal any smallwounds and increase sweetness.
Uses
Sweet potatoes that are firm with skin
that is of uniform, bright color should bechosen.  Sweet potatoes should be storedin a cool, dark, dry, well-ventilated placebut not in the refrigerator, because tem-peratures less than 50° Fahrenheit producea hard texture and unpleasant taste.  Theyshould be scrubbed well in cold water justbefore use and cooked in their skins topreserve nutrients and prevent the fleshfrom darkening.  After cooking, the skincan be removed easily.  Both types ofsweet potato can be baked, boiled, or262 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Taro is a barrel-shaped tuber or corm with thick, brown, shaggy skin and fibrous,
gray-white to lilac flesh.  Its length ranges from about 5 inches to a foot or more,and it can be several inches wide.  Its starchy, rather dry flesh is acrid and actuallytoxic when raw, but after cooking it is safe to consume and has a somewhat nutty flavor, similar to that of potatoes or water chestnuts.
Varieties
More than 300 varieties of taro are cul-
tivated around the world, both in waterand in soil, and vary considerably in colorand taste.  The two varieties of taro thatare most important for food productionare the globulifera, also called dasheen,which produces a large number of crisp,easily cut tubers (or corms), and theantiquorum, whose corms are tougherand more spongy.
Origin & botanical facts
Because taro is an important part of many
Asian diets and rituals, the tuber mayhave originated somewhere on that con-tinent.  Whatever its geographic origins,it is most likely one of the oldest foodplants.  As early as 2000 
B.C., taro was
brought from southeast Asia to the Pacificrim and northern Asia.  Taro is believedto have been brought to Hawaii between400 and 500 
A.D.by the first Marquesan
and Tahitian settlers.  According toHawaiian tradition, taro is the staff oflife.  Taro also was carried westward to
Arabia and was an important crop in theNile Valley by 500 
B.C.  Today, taro is a
staple in the diets of the people of West
Africa, the Caribbean, and the PolynesianIslands.  It is grown throughout tropicaland subtropical Asia and the Pacific andin parts of Africa and the Americas.
Taro is a succulent perennial plant
that ranges in height from about 20 inch-es to 6 feet.  Young corms develop as off-shoots of the main corm and can producenew plants.  Although taro is generally
regarded as a bog plant, it can grow in avariety of environments from dry groundto wetlands and can tolerate lightingconditions ranging from deep shade tobright sunlight. Because taro seeds andseedlings do not survive well and theplants rarely flower, propagation is doneprimarily by planting side corms or bycutting off and planting the top of a largetuber with its shoot.
Uses
Taro roots must  be cooked thoroughly
to neutralize the toxic calcium oxalateTaro
Family Araceae
Scientific name Colocasia esculenta L.
Schott
Common name taro
♥Cooked taro root is a good source 
of vitamin B6and fiber
♥Cooked taro leaves are high in vitamin
A and vitamin C
Nutrient Content
1/2cup root,1/2cup
cooked leaves,
(66 g) cooked (72 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 94 17
Water (%) 64 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 3 1
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 23 3
Protein (grams) 0 2
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 12 62
Iron 1 1
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 319 333
Magnesium 20 15
Phosphorus 50 20
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 307 RE
Vitamin C 3 26
Thiamin 0.1 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0.3
Niacin 0 1
Vitamin B 6 0.2 0.1
Folate 13 μg 35 μg
Vitamin E 0 –
Note:  A line (–) indicates that the nutrient value
is not available.crystals they contain.  The most well-
known use of taro is from Polynesia andHawaii, where it is boiled, pounded intoa paste, strained, and left to ferment intoa potent brew called poi.  Taro also canbe peeled and cooked like potatoes.   Theyoung, unopened leaves of the taro plantare also edible and can be cooked andeaten like mustard or turnip greens.
Nutrient composition
One serving of cooked taro root is a good
source of vitamin B6and fiber.  Cooked
leaves are high in vitamin A and vitamin C.Vegetables 263
Family Solanaceae
Scientific name Physalis ixocarpa
Common name tomatillo, jamberry,
strawberry tomato, Mexican greentomato, tomate verde
♥A good source of vitamin CThe tomatillo resembles a small green, leaf-covered tomato.  Indeed, the name
“tomatillo” means “little tomato” in Spanish.  Like the tomato, it belongs to thenightshade family and is actually a fruit.  Globular in shape and between 1 1/2 and 2 inches in diameter, the slightly flattened, shiny fruits are enclosed in light-brown or green, easily removed, parchment-like coverings.  The tomatillo has a tangy lemony flavor that is difficult to describe.  It has a firmer texture than the tomato, and its flesh is pale green or yellow, depending on the degree of ripeness.
Varieties
Tomatillos come in two varieties: the
sweet and the sharp (or acidic), both ofwhich are available in the United States.The more acidic variety is also known asTomatilla de Milpa.
Origin & botanical facts
The tomatillo is a native of Mexico,
although it also grows wild in California.Plants reach heights and widths of 3 to4 feet and have an unusual zigzag shape.The leaves are long and heart-shaped, andthe flowers are bell-shaped.  Tomatillosare best adapted to warm and dry climates.However, they can be grown as far northas the central midwestern United States.In North America, fruit productionbegins about 70 days after the plant hassprouted.  Tomatillos are available year-round.Uses
The tomatillo is almost always used while
it is still unripe, because the tangy lemonyflavor is lost when the fruit ripens.  Firmfruits that just fill the husks are best.  Thefruit can be stored in the refrigeratorunwashed or in a paper or plastic bag for3 weeks or longer.  Before use, the fruitshould be husked and washed to removethe sticky film that covers it.  The tomatillois popular in Mexican and Southwestcuisine.  Although it can be used raw insalads, the tomatillo is usually cookedeven when added to dishes such as salsacruda (salsa made from raw vegetables),because cooking enhances the tomatillo’sflavor and softens its skin.  Salsa verde,also made from tomatillos, is a popularcooked sauce with a sharp flavor that isexcellent for poultry and grilled meat orenchiladas.  Canned tomatillos also areavailable in markets and can be used in
recipes that require the cooked fruit.
Nutrient composition
Tomatillos are a good source of vitamin C.Tomatillo
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 21
Water (%) 92
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 1
Carbohydrate (grams) 4
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 5
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 177
Magnesium 13
Phosphorus 26
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 7 RE
Vitamin C 8
Thiamin 0
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0
Folate 5 μg
Vitamin E 0 
SERVING
SIZE:1/2 cup chopped, raw (66 g)264 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 26
Water (%) 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 1
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 6
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 6
Iron 1
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 273
Magnesium 14
Phosphorus 30
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 76 RE
Vitamin C 23
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0.1
Niacin 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1
Folate 18 μg
Vitamin E 0Tomatoes are members of the nightshade family, related to potatoes, bell peppers,
and eggplant.  They can be red, pink, orange, or yellow, round to oblong, andfrom 1 to 6 inches in diameter.  The flavor ranges from sweet to bland to tart, depending on variety.
Varieties
Tomatoes are available in three basic
types: small, round cherry tomatoes;plump, oblong plum, or Roma, tomatoes;and round or globe-shaped slicingtomatoes, probably the sweetest andjuiciest type.  Within each type arenumerous varieties, totaling about 4,000.
Origin & botanical facts
Although the tomato is botanically a fruit,
it is prepared and consumed as a vegetable.In fact, because of a tariff dispute, the U.S.Supreme Court officially declared it a veg-etable in 1893.  The word “tomato” isderived from the Mexican Nahuatl Indianword “tomatl.”  The wild form of the plant,which still flourishes in Mexico andCentral and South America, is similar tothe domestic cherry tomato.  Spanishexplorers to Mexico brought tomatoes backto Europe in the 10th century.  The firstofficial mention of the fruit appeared in1544, in the work of Italian botanistMatthiolus, who described a yellow-fruit-ed variety he called pomodoro, meaning“golden apple.”  Europeans initially regardedtomatoes with suspicion, because mostSERVING
SIZE:
1 medium, raw (123 g)Tomato
Tomatoes also are available in a variety
of processed forms, including cannedwhole, diced, and puréed.  Canned tomatopaste is a concentrated form of the fruit’spulp.  Processed tomato sauce in cans orjars is similar to purée, but with seasoningsand sometimes fat added.
Nutrient composition
Tomatoes are a good source of vitamin A
(carotenes) and are high in vitamin C.Red tomatoes also contain substantial
amounts of lycopene, an antioxidant thatmay help protect against cancer.  Thelycopene in cooked or processed toma-toes is more easily absorbed than that in
fresh tomatoes.
plants of the nightshade family were
known to be poisonous.  The tomato wasnot widely accepted as a food until theearly 19th century, although even thentomatoes would be cooked for hours toneutralize the toxins they were thought tocontain.  Raw tomatoes were not consumeduntil the late 19th century.  Today, tomatoesare one of the most popular vegetables inthe United States.
To increase durability and shelf life,
tomatoes are usually picked when theyare at the “mature green” stage.  In responseto year-round demand, growers havedeveloped thicker-skinned, hardy varietiesof tomatoes that can withstand long-distance shipping.
Uses
Unripe tomatoes can be ripened in a paper
bag at room temperature.  Tomatoesshould be stored at room temperature.Ripe tomatoes can be kept up to 2 days.The most popular way to eat fresh tomatoesis to slice them raw and eat them in salads
or sandwiches.Family  Solanaceae
Scientific name Lycopersicon 
esculentum
Common name tomato
♥High  in vitamin C
♥A good source of vitamin A (carotenes)
♥Contains the antioxidant lycopeneVegetables 265
The turnip is a fleshy root vegetable related to broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage,
and the mustards.  Depending on age and variety, turnips can be round or shapedlike a top, range in diameter from 2 inches to over a foot, and weigh up to 50pounds.  Their smooth skin can be white, yellow, green, or purple.  The white or yellow flesh of the turnip has a slightly sweet, peppery flavor and a crisp texture.
Varieties
Numerous varieties of turnips are grown
for harvest throughout the year.  ThePurple Top Milan, with flat white rootsand purple markings, matures early andis good for winter production, as are theManchester Market and the yellow-fleshed Golden Ball.  The Purple TopWhite Globe is an old variety with roundor flat roots that are reddish purple aboveground and white below.  The Snowballis a fast-maturing white turnip thatgenerally is sown in spring, while theTokyo Cross is an all-year crop.  TheJapanese cultivate long, carrot-shapedturnips called Hinona Kabu.
Origin & botanical facts
T urnips are native to Europe and central
Asia, where they still grow wild on openground or next to streams.  However, theywere first cultivated in the Middle Eastabout 4,000 years ago.  T urnips wereconsumed by the ancient Romans and byEuropeans during the Middle Ages.English and French settlers broughtturnips to America.  Today, turnips aregrown in many parts of the world, includ-ing Canada and the United States, wherethe leading suppliers are California andNew Jersey.  T urnips are economical and easy to
grow.  They thrive in almost any type ofsoil and store well after harvest.  Seedsgenerally are sown in early spring as soonas the soil can be worked, and additionalplantings are done every 2 weeks untilabout 5 weeks before the temperature isexpected to increase to more than 80°Fahrenheit.  In late summer, whentemperatures begin to cool, successiveplantings can be started again until 3months before night temperaturesnormally decrease to less than 20°Fahrenheit.  T urnips are ready for harvestabout 70 days after planting or when theroots are 2 inches in diameter.
Uses
Firm, unblemished turnips that are small
but heavy for their size are the best andsweetest.  They can be stored in perfo-rated plastic bags in the refrigeratorcrisper.  Although turnips can be eatenraw, the larger ones may have a strongflavor, which can be reduced by blanch-ing in boiling water for about 5 minutes.Although the root usually is peeled beforeuse, fresh, young turnips can be used withthe skins intact.  Sliced or cubed rawturnip adds a crunchy texture and a sweet,peppery flavor to green salads.  T urnips
can be boiled, baked, steamed, pickled,braised in broth, microwaved, stir-friedwith other vegetables, or roasted along-side meat or poultry.  Cooked turnips canbe mashed and served like potatoes or cutup and included in soups, casseroles, andstews.  Overcooking should be avoided,because it brings out the vegetable’s strongflavor.  Also, turnips should not be cookedin aluminum or iron pots because theflesh can darken.
In Great Britain, turnips are carved
into jack-o’-lanterns for Halloween.
Nutrient composition
T urnips are a good source of vitamin C.Turnip
Family Cruciferae
Scientific name Brassica rapa
Common name turnip
♥A good source of vitamin C
Nutrient Content
1/2cup,1/2cup,
raw (65g )cooked (78g)
Energy (kilocalories) 18 16
Water (%) 92 94
Dietary fiber (grams) 1 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 4 4
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 20 17
Iron 0 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 124 105
Magnesium 7 6
Phosphorus 18 15
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 0 RE
Vitamin C 14 9
Thiamin 0 0
Riboflavin 0 0
Niacin 0 0
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.1
Folate 9 μg 7 μg
Vitamin E 0 0266 Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrient Content
1/2cup,1/2cup,
cooked (70 g) raw (62 g)
Energy (kilocalories) 35 60
Water (%) 87 74
Dietary fiber (grams) 2 2
Fat (grams) 0 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 9 15
Protein (grams) 1 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 3 7
Iron 1 0
Zinc 0 0
Manganese 0 0
Potassium 83 362
Magnesium 4 14
Phosphorus 13 39
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE 0 RE
Vitamin C 1 2
Thiamin 0 0.1
Riboflavin 0 0.1
Niacin 0 1
Vitamin B 6 0.1 0.2
Folate 4 μg 10 μg
Vitamin E 0 1The Chinese water chestnut is not a chestnut or even a nut, but the edible tuber
of an aquatic plant.  The walnut-sized tuber is rounded with a pointed top andconsists of a tough but papery brown skin covering crisp, white meat.  Whether raw or cooked, the meat has a crunchy texture, similar to that of raw potato, and a subtle, almost sweet flavor.
Varieties
Numerous varieties of Chinese water
chestnut exist, but only a small numberare cultivated.  A Chinese variety, HonMati, is known for its size and sweetness.
A Florida variety, derived from theChinese variety, is larger, but the flavor ismore bland. Another type of edible water
chestnut is the fruit of the aquatic herbTrapa natans , unrelated to the Chinese
water chestnut. Trapa grows so abun-
dantly in the waterways of the northeastthat attempts are under way to eradicate it.
Origin & botanical facts
The Chinese water chestnut is native to
the Far East and grows in many parts ofIndia, southeast Asia, New Guinea,northern Australia, and Polynesia,although it is cultivated mainly in Chinaand Japan as a food and folk medicine.Attempts have been made to establishcrops in the state of Florida, but at thisWater Chestnut
Family Cyperaceae
Scientific name Eleocharis dulcis 
orEleocharis tuberosa 
Common name water chestnut, Chinese
water chestnut, Ma Ti, Ma-Tai, Chee-Chang
♥Raw water chestnuts are a good sourceof potassium and vitamin B
6diately.  Canned water chestnuts can be
drained and stored in fresh water in asealed container up to a month if thewater is changed daily.  Freshwater chest-nuts can be eaten raw or cooked.  Theycan be added to stir-fries, soups,casseroles, or vegetable dishes, where theywill retain their crisp texture even afterheating. For use in salads and other colddishes, they can be added raw or boiled 5minutes, drained, and chilled.
Nutrient Composition 
Raw water chestnuts are a good source of
potassium and vitamin B6.time no commercial growth occurs in the
United States.  The plant is a sedge,similar in appearance but unrelated tograss, that grows in freshwater swamps orin shallow ponds.  The rush- or reed-likeleaves are bright-green hollow stems thatgrow to 3 feet in height.  The plant, whichis best grown in rich, fertile, pulverizedsoil covered with 6 inches of water, isplanted in spring and propagates by pro-ducing spreading rhizomes throughoutthe summer months.  One rhizome canpropagate to 3 square feet.  During thelate autumn, the leaves yellow and chest-nuts form at the ends of the rhizomes.Within 3 to 4 weeks, the leaves die back,and the corms can be harvested, althoughexposure to cold winter air is thought bysome growers to improve the flavor.Chinese chestnuts are harvested by handor scooped from the bottoms of pondswith forks to avoid bruising the skins.
Uses
Freshwater chestnuts should be firm.
They can be refrigerated in a paper bagfor up to 2 weeks and should be washedand peeled just before use.  To preventdiscoloration from exposure to air, thepeeled whole or sliced water chestnutscan be dropped into acidulated water(dilute lemon juice) if not cooked imme-Vegetables 267
Nutrient Content
Energy (kilocalories) 79
Water (%) 70
Dietary fiber (grams) 3
Fat (grams) 0
Carbohydrate (grams) 19
Protein (grams) 1
Minerals (mg)
Calcium 10
Iron 0
Zinc 0
Manganese 0
Potassium 456
Magnesium 13
Phosphorus 33
Vitamins (mg)
Vitamin A 0 RE
Vitamin C 8
Thiamin 0.1
Riboflavin 0
Niacin 0
Vitamin B 6 0.2
Folate 11 μg
Vitamin E 0 The yam is a thick, starchy tuber that is similar in appearance to the sweet potato
but is not related to it.  Yams can range in length from a few inches to 7 1/2 feetand can weigh more than 100 pounds.  The rough skin is pale tan to dark brown,
whereas the flesh can range from off-white to yellow to purple or pink.
Depending on the variety, the texture is moist and tender or dry and mealy.  The flavor is rather bland, more similar to white potatoes than to sweet potatoes.
Varieties
Hundreds of species of yams, all of them
climbing vines, are cultivated through-out the world.  The most widely growntype is the Dioscorea alata , also called the
winged yam, greater yam, or white Manilayam, whose tubers can grow to 30 to 40pounds in weight.  Also popular is the D.
batatas , or Chinese yam, a smaller tuber
weighing 5 to 10 pounds, with a flattenedor fan-like shape.
Origin & botanical facts
Yams derive their name from the Senegalese
word nyami , which means “to eat.”  They
are native to Africa, where they have beencultivated for 11,000 years, and to south-east Asia, where their cultivation extendsback 10,000 years.  Along with taro, theymay have been the first plants to be cul-tivated.  The slave trade brought yams toCentral America and the Caribbean,where they became an important staplecrop.  Nevertheless, western Africa still
produces about half of the almost 30 mil-lion metric tons of yams currently grownin the world annually.  The rest are grownin Asia and Central and South America.Very small amounts are cultivated andconsumed in the United States.  Most ofthe vegetables that are called yams in theUnited States are actually sweet potatoes.T rue yams thrive in frost-free, preferablytropical or subtropical climates whoserainfall totals at least 40 inches duringthe 8-month growing season.  The idealsoil is rich, fertile, and moist but welldrained.  Like potatoes, yams are easilypropagated from the tubers themselves,which are cut into wedges containing twoor three buds each and allowed to dry fora day before planting.  Plants can begrown in pots or planted directly intohills of compost mixed with sandy soil.Because the tubers do not store well, it isbest to leave them in the ground as longas possible before harvest in fall or latewinter.
Uses
Yams can be found in Latin American
and Asian specialty markets, usually soldin chunks.  Yams should be stored in aSERVING
SIZE:
1/2 cup, baked (68 g)Yam
Family Dioscoreaceae
Scientific name Dioscorea alata
Common name yam
♥A good source of vitamin C, fiber, and
potassiumcool, dry, dark place but should not be
refrigerated.  Because they grow under-ground, they should be scrubbed well to
remove any clinging soil.  Yams must be
cooked before eating. Like potatoes, theycan be baked, boiled, fried, or micro-waved.  They can be substituted for sweetpotatoes, cut into chunks or mashed andseasoned with apple juice, orange peel,or sweet spices.  They also are a flavorfuladdition to soups, casseroles, and stewsand can take the place of mashed pumpkinin pies, cakes, and pastries.
Nutrient composition
Yams are a good source of vitamin C and
dietary fiber and are high in potassium.Grains
Includes: Bread, Cereals, Flour, and Pasta269
Basics
Grains are the seeds of plants.  Althoug h the
grains eaten b y humans b elong  to a wide rang e
of botanical families, they have the same
basic structure (see the illustration on pag e
20, Chapter 2) and contain these compo-
nents, from which plants begin to grow: 
Bran — This is the outer layer of the
grain seed. It’s full of B vitamins, trace
minerals, and, especially, fiber. 
Endosperm — Sometimes referred to as
the kernel, the endosperm contains the
majority of the material within the seedand is meant to nourish a seedling .  The
endosperm is where most of the protein,carbohydrates, and small amounts of vita-mins are located.  It is composed mainly ofstarch, and often it is the only part of thegrain that is eaten.
Germ — The germ is the part of the
seed from which the new plant sprouts.  Asthe emb ryo within the seed, it has the hig h-
est concentration of nutrients, including  B
vitamins, trace minerals, and some pro-teins.  It also contains fat, which increasesits perishability.
Grains are usually milled b efore they
are used as food.  Milling  usually means
that the b ran and any husk surrounding
the grain seed (along  with the nutrients
they contain) are removed.  Then the seeds
are ground in a process that converts the
grain into flour or other products.  The
product’s use and name often depend onhow much of the bran is left.  Wheat, forexample, can b e milled into whole-g rain
flours that contain all parts of the seed.
Refined flours, which are used most oftenby Western nations, contain only the
endosperm:  the b ran and g erm are removed
(along  with much of the g rain’s nutrition).
Nearly any g rain can b e milled and
made into products such as b read, cereal,
or pasta—food staples worldwide—with
varying  degrees of success depending  on
the chemistry of the g rain.  History has
taught us which g rains work b est and in
what combinations.
Gluten, which is found in g rain protein,
gives bread its springy texture.  It becomes
stretchy and thickens when liquid is addedCereal grains are the fruit of plants belonging to the grass family (G ramineae).  Ten thousand years ago, wheat
underwent spontaneous mutations causing this grass to hang onto its seed rather than scatter it to the
wind.  Although this change was not in the interests of the wheat from the standpoint of its own reproduction,
it enabled humans to store seed for the winter.  The calorie density of grains prevented starvation and soplayed an important role in human history worldwide.  In China, rice was domesticated about
6,500 years ag o, and in the New World corn was domesticated ab out 3,500 years ag o.
Until the past century, most grains were consumed as “whole” grains.  In
other words, the grain kernels were intact — not stripped of their
vitamins, minerals, and fiber.  Whole grains provide fiber, protein,
complex carbohydrates, lignans, phytates, other phytochemicals,
vitamins, and minerals.  Fat-soluble vitamins are found in the germ
of the grain, and B vitamins and phytochemicals are found in thehusk or bran.  G rain  and grain products are also naturally low in fat.
Whole grains can be consumed plain as hot cereals, used in pilafs,
added to baked goods, and eaten in dozens of other ways.  Hundreds 
of products are made from grain.  T wo of the main ones —bread 
and pasta — are diet staples in nearly every culture on every continent, from couscous in North Africa to so ba (buckwheat
noodles) in J apan.  G rains and grain products literally feed the
world, pro viding  most of the calories and much of the protein 
consumed by the world’s population.  270 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
to the flour and the comb ination is kneaded.
The resulting  gas from the fermentation of
the carb ohydrate in the flour is trapped b y
the doug h, causing  the g luten to stretch
and, thus, the b read to rise. Because wheat
and rye contain the hig hest quantities of
gluten, flour made from these g rains has
proved best suited for making  bread.  Other
grains, such as corn, have less gluten, and
products made from them are more crumb ly.
In most countries, the highest propor-
tion of cultivated land is devoted to g rains.
Crops such as wheat, rice, corn, b arley, oats,
and millet remain critical components in
the diets of people worldwide.  Wheat isamino acids (the b uilding  blocks of protein)
that your b ody needs.  However, g rains also
do not have the twin disadvantag es of
animal-b ased protein—saturated fat and
cholesterol, both of which are linked to
cardiovascular disease.  G rains can b e eaten
in comb ination with other foods—such as
legumes, small serving s of meat or poultry,
and dairy foods—to provide the complete
balance of amino acids.
Important minerals found in whole g rains
are iron, phosphorus, mag nesium, and zinc.
Whole grains are also a source of B vitamins
(niacin, thiamin, rib oflavin) and antioxidants,
such as vitamin E and selenium.  Scientiststhe most widely g rown grain.  But, b ecause
multiple crops of rice can b e grown in a
year in tropical areas, a nearly equal amount
of rice and wheat are grown each year. 
Nutrition
The mix of nutrients supplied b y grains
varies.  But b ecause grain seeds are com-
posed mostly of starch, b etween 65 and 90
percent of the calories supplied b y grains
are carb ohydrates.  Between 8  percent and
15 percent of calories come from protein,
and fat contrib utes the remainder of the
calories.  Because g rains are plant-b ased
proteins, they do not supply all of the
are just b eginning  to explore the health role
of sub stances called “phytochemicals,”
which are also found in whole grains. 
Grains are rich in dietary fib er, both
insolub le fiber (which helps b owel function
and may reduce the risk of some kinds of
cancer) and soluble fiber (which may havea role in lowering  blood cholesterol levels).
The refining  and processing  of grains
remove many of the nutrients g rains natu-
rally provide.  The bran and the nutrients
it contains are often removed durin g the
milling  process.  Refined wheat flour has
both the b ran and the g erm removed.
Many grain products are enriched (see
Chapter 4, “Fortified” and “Enriched,” pag e
92), meaning  nutrients orig inally found in
the grain are added b ack to the product
during  processing .  But not all the nutrients
are returned. Insolu ble fiber is milled away
when the b ran is removed, and antioxidants
usually are not added b ack into refined
flours.  Phytochemicals also may b e missing
in refined products.
The bottom line is that even thou gh
refined grains are a g ood source of many
nutrients, whole g rains are b etter.  You can
tell whether a product is made from whole
grain by checking the ingredient listing of
the lab el. Look for the words “whole g rain,”
indicating  that the product contains the
endosperm, bran, and g erm, and all the
benefits they bring.
Selection
Grains, even those that have b een processed
or lig htly cooked, contain some of their
natural oils.  Over time, they may g o rancid,
which is why ensuring  freshness when
buying  them is key.  Look for g rains that
are in sealed packag es.  This protects them
from air, moisture, and spoilag e.  Some may
have freshness or “best if used b y” dates to
help ensure quality.  If you are buying  inGrains 271
Cooking times vary dependin g on the
kind of g rain used, how it has b een
processed, and whether it has b een pre-
cooked (b ulgur and kasha are often lig htly
cooked, then dried before they are sold instores).  Most cooks recommend cookin g
whole grains as you would pasta.  Simply
cook them until tender—a time that mayrange from 8  minutes for “instant” types of
white rice to more than an hour for whole
wheat or other unmilled grains. 
Some grains that are particularly
toug h—such as wheat or rye—may b e
easier to cook if they are first soaked.
Rinsing  whole g rains before cooking  also
is advised to remove deb ris or other residues. 
The text that follows provides more
detailed information about specific grainsand the foods made from them.  Thechapter is organized into two sections:
• Grains
• Grain Productsbulk, check whether the store has a rapid
turnover of that particular product.  There
may not b e a great demand for b ulgur in
supermarkets, for example, and so the prod-uct may have b een on the shelf for some
time.  In contrast, specialty food markets
or those specializing in natural foods mayhave greater demand for the product, sell
more of it, and therefore have a fresher
product.  G rains also should smell fresh
and appear clean and free of debris.
Storage
Because grains may attract insects or may
become moldy if they b ecome moist, keep
them in tig htly closed, moisture-proof
containers.  G rains can be stored at room
temperature, but they will remain fresh
longer if stored in the refri gerator, where
they will keep for several months.  Mostgrains can b e kept much long er if stored in
the freezer.  They do not need to b e thawed
before cooking .  Cooked g rain may b e
stored in the refri gerator for several days
and then reheated.
Preparation
Whole grains are hard and dry.  Thus, cook-
ing involves not only heating  them b ut also
rehydrating them.  For that reason, wholegrains, with few exceptions, are cooked in
liquid.  Here’s a traditional method for
doing so:
• Bring water (or other liquid, such as a
stock) to a boil. Many cooks use a ratio of
two to three parts water to one part grain.
• Add grains and other seasonings.
• Cover mixture and reduce to a simmer.
• Simmer until most of the liquid is
absorbed.
• Remove mixture from heat and drainexcess liquid if necessary. Let sit for approx-imately 5 minutes, then fluff with a fork.BEYOND THE BASICS
Innovative uses of g rains include the
production of modified starches, caloric
sweeteners, and fat sub stitutes.  Beta-
glucan, a fat-like g el made from enzyme-
treated oat b ran, is sold as a cholesterol-
lowering  fat replacement, althoug h more
testing is needed to determine its effec-tiveness.  Several food enzymes are pro-duced by fermentation based on grain.
Wheat gluten may be used to produce
flavor enhancers such as g lutamate or
diet supplements such as g lutamine.
There is also a vast ran ge of industrial
applications.  None of these, however,are likely to overtake in importance therole of grains in feeding the world. Grains
Amaranth
Amaranth was one of the main food sources
for the Aztecs, who also used it in relig ious
rituals.  Cultivation ended almost com-
pletely after Spanish conquistadors madegrowing  the plant a punisha ble offense.
Today, both farmers and anyone interested
in nutrition are showing  increasing  interest
in the plant b ecause it has more protein (15
percent to 18  percent of calories) than most
other grains (8  to 15 percent of calories).
It also contains more lysine and methionine,amino acids not provided b y many com-
mon grains.  Comb ined with other g rains,
it can provide a complete b alance of amino
acids.  Amaranth is also a source of calcium
and mag nesium and contains more iron
than almost any other grain.
The amaranth plant has long  clusters
of red flowers and g rows to a heig ht of 1 to
3 feet.  It produces tiny seeds—up to500,000 per plant.  These seeds can b e
cooked and eaten as a g rain or popped,
sprouted, or g round into flour that has a
strong , nutty flavor.  Amaranth flour can
range from a lig ht yellow to dark violet,
althoug h most amaranth flour sold in stores
is buff-colored. 
Pasta can b e made from amaranth flour,
and amaranth oil is ob tained from the
plant’s seeds.  The g reen leaves and stalk of
amaranth (also called pig weed) can b e
cooked and eaten.  The leaves have a tastesimilar to that of spinach.
Preparation Tips
Amaranth flour does not contain g luten,
which means b aked goods containing  it will
not rise as desired and will b e crumb ly.  It
can be used in b aked goods, but it should b e
comb ined with wheat flour (which contains
gluten) in recipes for muffins, b read, cookies,272 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
taste, its b anishment from many nations’
kitchens is something  to reconsider.
Barley has a toug h husk surrounding  the
grain seed which must b e removed before
it is edib le.  Barley is a source of solub le
fiber, niacin, phosphorus, mag nesium,
and iron.
Barley grains are usually off-white, b ut
the color may range from black to purple.
How the g rain is milled determines its
nutritional content.  Nutrients are most
concentrated near the b ran.  Therefore, the
more milling  the b arley underg oes, the less
nutritious it is.
Types of barley sold in stores include:
Flaked barley—As its name suggests,
barley flakes are grains that have been flat-
tened. They resemble rolled oats. 
Pot barley or Scotch barley— This type
of barley is coarsely g round, but it loses
most of its nutrients b ecause almost the
entire husk is removed.
Pearled barley— So-named because
processed barley grains are the same size as
pearls and ivory-colored, pearled barley isprocessed multiple times to scour or polish
off the outer husk and the b ran.  The result
is a b arley that cooks much more quickly
than other types of barley.
Hulled barley—Hulled barley has only
the outer husk removed and still contains
most of its bran.  This makes it one of the
most nutritious types of barley available.
Barley flour—Barley flour is simply
barley grains ground very fine.  It is darker
than refined white flour and has a delicate,nutty flavor. 
Supermarkets typically do not carry a
wide variety of b arley products, althoug h
pearled barley and prepared b arley soups
are easy to find.  Health food stores orspecialty food markets are more likely tocarry less refined barley products.or pastries.  Because it has a nutty, assertiveflavor, you may want to experiment some-what with how much amaranth flour to addto recipes.  Amaranth’s nutritional advan-tages, however, make addin g it to baked
goods worthwhile.
Amaranth seeds also can b e cooked (see
Preparation Tips, pag e 273) and eaten as a
cereal.  Or, they can be popped b y adding
them a tab lespoon at a time to a hot,
ungreased skillet.  They take just a few min-
utes to pop.
Serving Suggestions
In addition to using  amaranth in b aked
goods as describ ed ab ove, amaranth can
be sub stituted for flour in pancake or waffle
recipes.  Cinnamon particularly comple-ments its flavor in b oth of these b reakfast
favorites.  Amaranth leaves can b e sub sti-
tuted for spinach in salads or cookeddishes.  Popped amaranth seeds can b e used
as a g arnish or topping  or in b reading
recipes.
Barley
Barley, an annual plant that g rows to a heig ht
of 1 to 4 feet, is hardy enoug h to withstand
various growing  conditions.  For this reason,
throug hout history it has b een cultivated
as a food crop and remains a staple in manynations, particularly in North Africa, theMiddle East, and Asia.  Today, however, muchof the barley produced in Western nationsis fed to animals or used in the productionof beer or distilled liquor.  An enzyme in
malt made from b arley transforms the
starch in beer or liquor mashes into sugarsthat alcohol-producing  yeast can feed on
and, therefore, ferment, a process that leads
to the production of alcohol.
Given the health b enefits of b arley, its
versatility, and its pleasing , lightly nuttyPreparation Tips
Less refined b arley should b e soaked several
hours before cooking .  Generally, these
types of b arley are cooked for ab out an hour
over low heat in 3 or 4 cups of water foreach cup of b arley.  Refined types of b arley,
such as pearled b arley, do not need to b e
soaked and can be cooked in about a halfhour.  Barley flour has a low gluten content.
It must b e comb ined with hig her-g luten
flours (such as wheat) in b aked goods or
they will not rise as desired. 
Serving Suggestions
Barley can be substituted for rice in many
recipes or comb ined with b eans and
vegetables to provide a high-protein meal
without meat.  Barley readily ab sorbs the
flavors of the liquid it is cooked in, and thusit is an excellent addition to soups andstews, where it also acts as a thickening
agent.  Barley also can b e served on its own
as a hot cereal—it is excellent topped off
by plain yog urt and fruit.  Barley makes an
excellent base for an entrée at lunch or
dinner when cooked in chicken, b eef, or
vegetable stock and then mixed with
steamed vegetables. Grains 273
is added to other cereal flours to improvenutritional quality, and it is often an ing re-
dient in snack foods.  Recent studies have
linked various phytochemicals in b uck-
wheat with potential health b enefits.  Rutin,
a flavonoid found in b uckwheat bran, is
being studied for a possib le role in manag -
ing blood cholesterol levels.  Fa gopyritols
found in buckwheat may have a favorable
effect on b lood glucose levels in people with
type 2 diabetes.  Regular consumption of
buckwheat also has b een shown to lower
blood pressure.  However, further research
is necessary to confirm these benefits.
Preparation Tips
Because buckwheat flour is gluten-free, it
must be mixed with flours that contain
gluten, such as wheat flour, in b aked goods.
Otherwise, the foods will not rise as desired.To prepare kasha, add 1 cup of b uckwheat
groats to a heated skillet and add to it a
beaten egg white.  The egg separates the
kernels as they cook, which prevents the
groats from sticking  together.  This ensures
that kasha will have a consistency that issimilar to that of rice.  Stir the kasha andegg mixture until each g rain is separate and
dry.  Then, add 2 cups of boiling liquid—
either stock or water—and a dash of salt.
Simmer the mixture for 30 minutes or untilthe liquid is absorbed.
Serving Suggestions
T raditionally, b uckwheat has b een used
mainly as a flour in pancake mixes.  Ways
to enjoy b uckwheat are in the forms of sob a,
which is a Japanese noodle, and cooked
buckwheat groats as a salad or pilaf.
Corn (Maize)
Althoug h considered b y many to b e a
vegetable, corn is actually one of the fewBuckwheat
From a b otanical standpoint, b uckwheat is
a fruit and is in the same plant family asrhubarb.  However, it is processed, prepared,
and consumed like cereal g rains such as
wheat, rye, and oats.
Buckwheat products have a strong ,
nutlike flavor and include the following:
Buckwheat flours—As the name
suggests, these are flours ground from the
buckwheat seed.  Supreme b uckwheat flour
is milled from whole b uckwheat.  Fancy
buckwheat flour is milled from hulled b uck-
wheat seeds.  Buckwheat flour is commonlyused to make pancakes, b ut it has a variety
of other uses. 
Farinetta— This is simply a product
made from the bran of buckwheat seeds.
Buckwheat groats—G roats are hulled
buckwheat kernels that have b een crushed.
Groats that are roasted are known as kasha,
a name g iven to this product in Eastern
European countries, where it has b een a
staple for centuries.
Nutritionally, buckwheat has unique
characteristics.  The protein quality of b uck-
wheat is hig her than that of wheat, soy, oats,
or brown rice.  For this reason, buckwheatGRAIN GLOSSARY
Whole grains—The least processed grains.  The outer husk is removed (hulled)
Pearled or polished grains—G rains that have had the brown bran outer coating of the
kernel wholly or partially removed
Steel-cut or cracked grains— Grains that are cut into small pieces, from fine to very
coarse
Flakes or rolled—G rain kernels that are sliced and then flattened between rollers
Meal—G rain that is coarsely ground to a gritty consistency
Bran or polishings—The coarsely ground or finely shredded outer huskGerm— A coarse meal made from the sprout, or em bryo, found inside the kernel
Flour— Grain ground into a powder274 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Essentially, the advances in b reeding  have
made corn sweeter b y converting  its starch
to sug ar.
Corn can b e eaten in several ways.  It
can be served fresh and still on the cob .
Canning  or freezing  can preserve fresh
kernels.  Dried kernels can b e roasted or
popped.
Corn can b e ground into coarse meal
or flour that is made into cornb read,
tortillas, pancakes, or waffles.  Oil derived
from corn is used widely for cooking .
Starch derived from corn is often used as athickening  agent in g ravies, soups, and
other dishes.  Tiny b aby corn is popular in
Asian dishes and is sold in cans or jars.
Corn is also fermented and is the basis for
bourbon and whiskey.
The ever-popular cornflake cereal was
invented by the Kellogg brothers of cereal
fame in 1894.  According to legend, they
discovered the process of makin g cornflakes
by accident when they passed corn kernels
that had b een left too long  in cooking  water
through rollers, resulting in flakes. 
Althoug h corn is the fundamental food
plant of the United States, most of the crop
is used for feeding  animals or for manu-
facturin g purposes.  Corn grown for those
purposes is often referred to as “field” corn.  grains native to the Western Hemisphere,
where it has been cultivated for centuries.
In Europe, the word “corn” is the commonterm used to describ e many cereal g rains.
However, after coming  to the New World,
Europeans began to use the word “maize”
to refer to corn itself.  The word “maize” is
derived from the American Indian word“mahiz.”  To this day, Europeans call corn“maize,” and Americans call it “corn.”
Corn plants g row to a heig ht of 6 to 10
feet.  The tall plants, with their long , droop-
ing leaves, are a common sig ht throug hout
the U.S. Midwest, where most of the
world’s supply is g rown.  The plant pro-
duces ears of corn that measure 6 to 12inches, and each ear has numerous long ,
slender threads called silk.  Corn kernels
can be white, orang e, red, purple, b lue,
black, or b rown, according  to the variety.
Most of the corn grown today is a golden
yellow.
Corn has a wide rang e of uses and,
althoug h less nutritious than many g rains,
it is extremely versatile and still a g ood
food choice.  Nutritionally speaking  for
humans, corn provides a g ood source of
fiber, phosphorus, vitamin C, and thiamin.
Numerous hyb rid varieties of corn have
become availab le in the past decades.Preparation Tips The key to serving  corn on the cob  is to
buy the freshest possible.  When the ear is
plucked from the stalk, the natural sug ar
in it begins a gradual conversion to starch,
which makes the corn less sweet and, there-fore, less tasty.  Look for husks around theear of corn that are g reen, plump, ti ghtly
wrapped, and free of any ob vious insect
infestation.  Before b uying  corn, peel b ack
the husk slightly to check for plump, pale,and moist-looking kernels.  At home, the
green husk and silk are usually removed
before cooking .  T raditionally, corn on the
cob is cooked b y placing  ears in a pot of
boiling  water for 4 to 7 minutes or in a
vegetable steamer for 4 to 6 minutes.  Corn
on the cob  also can b e cooked in a
microwave oven.  To do so, wrap eachhusked ear in waxed paper and place on apaper towel.  Cook on the hig hest power
setting for 3 to 5 minutes for one ear, 5 to
7 minutes for two ears, and 9 to 12 min-utes for four ears.  Corn on the cob can beroasted in its husk on the g rill or in the
oven.  (The silk must first b e removed, how-
ever, and the husk replaced after this is
done.)  Before roastin g, soak the ear in water
for about 5 minutes.  Then place the corn
on the grill or in the oven.  Cooking times
vary but rang e from 10 to 15 minutes on a
hot grill or 20 to 30 minutes in an oven set
at 350° Fahrenheit.
Avoid corn that is sold in displays
exposed to direct sunlig ht or hig h temper-
atures because heat speeds up the process
of convertin g sugar to starch. 
Serving SuggestionsInstead of flavoring  corn with b utter or salt,
try other seasoning s.  Pepper, herb s, or
lemon juice complement corn’s flavorwithout adding  unnecessary sodium, fat,
or calories.  Corn also mixes well with other
vegetables.  Popped corn (see sideb ar:
Putting  the “Pop” in Popcorn, this pa ge)
makes an excellent snack as long  as it is not
drenched in butter and salt. 
Flax
Flax is an ancient crop.  Native to Eurasia,
its first recorded use was in Ba bylon ab out
3000 B.C.  There, it was cultivated for food,
and its seeds were usually g round into flour
or meal.  The plant also was used to make
fabric for clothing .  (These days, linen
comes from flax.)  Hippocrates, the ancientGreek physician, wrote of using  flaxseed
for the relief of ab dominal pain.  The
greatest of all medieval king s, Charlemag ne,
considered flax so healthful that he passed
laws requiring its consumption.
Nutrition researchers have identified
several sub stances in flaxseed that appear
to have health benefits: lignans, fiber, and
omeg a-3 fatty acids.  Lig nans are phyto-
estrog ens that are thoug ht to b ind to estro-
gen receptors in the b ody.  Phytoestro gens
may have a role in preventin g hormonally
related cancers of the b reast, endometrium
(lining  of the uterus), and prostate.
Populations with higher intakes of phyto-
estrog ens appear to have a lower incidence
of and mortality from these cancers.
Although lignans are found in most unre-
fined grains, soyb eans, and some veg eta-
bles (b roccoli, carrots, cauliflower, and
spinach), flaxseed is the richest source of
lignans.  Flaxseed also contains b oth solub le
and insolub le fiber (ab out 3.3 g rams of total
fiber in 1 tab lespoon of flaxseed).  A bout
one-third of the fib er is solub le.  Studies
have found that the solub le fiber in flaxseed,
like that found in oat b ran and fruit pectin,
can help lower cholesterol levels.  Soluble
fiber also has been found to help regulate
blood sug ar levels.  The remainin g two-Grains 275
Preparation TipsIncorporating  flaxseed into a diet is sim-
ple and can add a tasty twist to routine
foods and dishes.  Whole (or g round)
flaxseed can replace some of the flour inbread, muffin, pancake, and cookie
recipes.  Because of its hig h fat content, it
also can b e used to replace part or all of
the fat in b aked goods recipes.  (One cup
of flaxseed may replace 1/3 cup fat.)  Time
in the oven should b e adjusted to allow
for more rapid b rowning  when flaxseed is
used in b aked goods.  Flaxseed oil also is
readily availab le and may b e sub stituted
for other oils.
Serving Suggestions
Whole flaxseeds have a nutty taste and canbe sprinkled over salads, soups, yogurt, or
cereals.  Flaxseed meal particularly com-plements the flavor of bran muffins.thirds of the fiber in flaxseed is insoluble,
which aids in dig estion and waste elimina-
tion.
Flaxseed is rich in alpha-linolenic acid,
which is b oth an essential fatty acid and an
omega-3 fatty acid.  Researchers are inter-ested in omega-3 fatty acids for their roles
in proper infant g rowth and development,
in reducing  risk factors for heart disease
and stroke (reg ulation of cholesterol, trig lyc-
erides, blood pressure, b lood clotting ), and
in immune and inflammatory disorders.
Ground flaxseed is usually available in
most larg e supermarkets and in specialty
markets.  The small, reddish brown wholeseeds have a nutty taste.  Look for flaxseedor flaxseed meal in tig ht packa ging that
does not allow lig ht to pass throug h.
Protecting  flaxseed from lig ht helps keep
the product fresh and preserves the ome ga-
3 fatty acids and polyunsaturated fats.
PUTTING THE “POP”INPOPCORN
Popcorn is a special hard variety of dried corn that pops open and puffs when it is
heated. The kernel has enough internal moisture to become steam, and the kernelexplodes because the steam has nowhere to go.  Different types of popcorn can be
different colors.  Once popped, thou gh, they’re all white or yellow.
Popcorn is an excellent snack food.  It is high in complex carbohydrates, a
source of some fiber, and, depending on how it isserved, low in fat and calories.  When pur-chasing microwave popcorn, check
labels for saturated fat content.T ry to buy reduced-fat or “lite”varieties.  T ry popping your
own and seasoning it with apinch of salt instead ofadding unnecessary fat and
calories by drizzling butter over
the popcorn.  Alternative season-ings include onion or garlic powders 
or reduced-fat grated cheese. 276 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
cuisine.  In the United States, sor ghum
molasses is used as syrup at the tab le and
in baked goods.  Teff was g rown almost
exclusively in Ethiopia until the past decade,
when it was introduced in Western markets.Often thoug ht of as a “famine food,” teff
is also grown and distributed by humani-
tarian agencies to relieve world hunger.
Millet has a strong , nutty flavor that
may take some time to appreciate.  Finelyground millet is used b y Ethiopians to make
fermented, spong y flat b read, by Indians
to make crepe-like roti, and b y the Masai in
Africa to make beer.  Nutritionally, milletis a good source of niacin, thiamin, phos-phorus, and zinc and provides a fair amountof iron.  It also is easy to digest. 
Preparation Tips
Millet’s preparation is similar to that ofrice—it is boiled in water.  G round millet
is used as flour to make puddings, breads,
and cakes.  Because millet produces nogluten, it cannot b e used on its own to
make raised breads.
Serving Suggestions
Millet can b e used as a sub stitute for many
other grains.  It can b e served as a hot cereal
and in dishes such as pilaf. Like b arley, millet
can be added to soups and stews. 
Oats
Oats grow best in cool, moist climates and
thrive in poor soils.  G iven these advanta ges,
it is understandab le why oats have b een a
food source for b oth humans and animals
for centuries.  There are several hundredvarieties of oats, which are divided intotwo classes:  winter and summer oats.Whole oat g rains are usually  “hairy” and
can vary from white and yellow to g ray,
red, or b lack.  The g rains, which are small
and shaped like a thin, elong ated footb all,
are cleaned, dried, and roasted, and thehull (the toug h outer covering ) is removed.
The bran and the g erm, however, are left
intact, which means that they keep mostof their orig inal nutrients.  Oats are
especially rich in the solub le fib er beta-
glucan, which may play a role in reducin g
blood cholesterol, b lood pressure, and
blood sug ar levels.  Oats are also a source of
antioxidants.
Different types of processed oats and
oat products include the following:
Oat groats —whole oats that have b een
hulled and roasted. G roats take ab out 30
to 40 minutes to cook.
Steel-cut oats—Whole oats that have
been roasted and then cut into b its. This
reduces cooking  time to ab out 15 minutes.
They are sometimes known as Scottish or
Irish oats or pinhead oats.
Old-fashioned rolled oats —These are
oat kernels that are steamed and thenDIDYOUEVERASKYOURSELF …
What Is Hominy?
Hominy is the starchy endosperm of maize (corn) kernels.  It can be thought of
as the “naked” kernels that remain after the tou gh hull (pericarp) and oily germ
have been removed.
The hull is removed by soaking  corn kernels in water mixed with lime, lye, or wood
ashes.  This process not only loosens the hulls b ut also unb inds the vitamin niacin
and makes it ab sorbable in the dig estive tract.  In its dry form, hominy is sold either
cracked (samp) or g round (g rits).  Hominy also is sold canned and ready to eat.
In Mexico, a form of corn similar to hominy is used to make tortillas.  Annual 
consumption of corn in Mexico is about 400 pounds per person (about 1 pound
per day), and it provides up to 70 percent of a person’s daily calorie intake.
In the United States, the most common form of hominy is called grits.  G rits 
are cooked with water or milk until thick and mushy.  Often eaten as porrid ge 
or a side dish or in a casserole, grits are served hot or chilled and sometimes cut
into squares and fried. 
Hominy is a good source of complex carbohydrates and soluble fiber. 
Millet
Millet is the oldest of g rains.  And althoug h
it is often used in the United States as b ird
feed, millet is one of the main food sources
for many developing nations.
There are many different species of
millet, which is tiny, has an ob long-spherical
shape, and rang es from pale yellow to reddish
orang e.  Unlike most g rains, which form
ears, most varieties of millet form panicles,
or berry-shaped heads.  Millet b erries are
small and rang e from white, g ray, or yellow
to red or reddish brown.  Common milletis grown worldwide and is used mainly for
human consumption and animal feed.
Foxtail millet is also grown in a variety of
areas and is often used for b irdseed or, in
Russia, to make beer. Pearl millet is grownprimarily in India.
Varieties that are more familiar to North
Americans include sorg hum and teff.
Sor ghum is widely g rown in the American
South and included there in reg ionalflattened into flakes to allow them to be
cooked more quickly.
Quick-cookin g oats —These are flat-
tened oats cut more finely to reduce cook-ing time.
Instant oatmeal —Cooked merely by
adding boiling water, these oats of conve-nience are pre-cooked in the manufacturingprocess and rolled very thin to make cook-ing even quicker.  A trade-off may be thatthese oats are less flavorful.  In addition,flavorings, salt, and sugar are often added toinstant oatmeal. 
Oat flour —Flour made from oats is also
available and can be combined with wheatflour in breads and other leavened foods.
Oat bran —This is a fine meal made
from the outer layers of the grain. It can bepurchased and used separately, but it maybe a part of other oat products. 
Preparation Tips
Old-fashioned oats and quick-cooking oatsusually can be interchanged in recipes.Instant oats, however, are not interchange-able because the additional processing theyundergo softens the oats so much that,when combined with liquid, they can makebaked goods mushy or gooey.  Most typesof processed oats are cooked by simmeringthem in water (steel-cut oats require twoparts water for one part oats; for all othertypes of oats, use one part water for one partoats ) until they are softened and cooked.Oat flour contains minimal gluten andmust be mixed with other types of flour sothat baked goods will rise as desired.  Usingoat flour results in baked goods that areoften more dense than similar productsmade with other flours.
Servin g Suggestions
All types of processed oats make a terrifichot cereal.  Oats are also one of the mainGrains 277
grains in granola (and many snack foods).
Unfortunately, granola and many snack
foods are high in fat, particularly saturated
fats, the type linked to cardiovascular disease.This can offset the health benefits of oats.Oats can be added to muffins, cookies, andbread for a different texture.  Some typesof European soup and stew recipes call foroats as thickening agents.  Steel-cut oatscan be added to some scone recipes for addi-tional crunch and a nutty flavor.
Quinoa
It is hailed as the super grain of the future,but the accolades are a little misleading.Quinoa (a name supposedly derived fromthe Spanish word for “fantastic”) is not reallya grain.  It is the fruit of a plant that belongsto the same botanical family as beets.  Thequinoa plant reaches a height of 3 to 10feet and produces flat, pointed seeds thatrange from buff to russet to black. 
So why all the praise for quinoa?
Quinoa is relatively easy to cultivate andwithstands poor soil conditions and alti-tude.  It also packs a nutritional punch inits tiny seeds.  It contains more protein thanmost grains and offers a more evenly bal-anced array of amino acids, the buildingblocks of protein.  It is higher in minerals,such as calcium, phosphorus, magnesium,potassium, copper, zinc, and iron, thanmany grains.
Quinoa seeds can be cooked or ground
into flour.  Several types of pasta are madefrom quinoa flour.  The leaves of the plantalso are edible, and the seeds can be sproutedand eaten.
Preparation Tips
Quinoa is cooked in the same way as rice,although it cooks in about half the time.Its flavor is delicate, and some describe itas hazelnut-like.  Before cooking, it is
important to rinse quinoa seeds until thewater runs clear.  They are covered with abitter, powdery resin that can result inan unpleasant taste if it is not removed.
Quinoa flour has a low gluten content.  It
cannot be used alone in baked goods
because they will not rise properly.
Servin g Suggestions
Quinoa is cooked like rice and makes an
excellent substitute for it.  “Toasting” thequinoa grains in a hot skillet before boil-
ing gives it a roasted flavor.  Adding cookedvegetables and fresh herbs also complementsits delicate flavor.  Quinoa flour can be usedin many baked goods.  Quinoa also makesan excellent hot cereal and can be added tosoups and stews.  Quinoa pasta is cookedand used like traditional types of pasta.
Rice
Most typically viewed as a side dish in Westernnations, rice is the main entrée when therest of the world sits down to eat, providingup to half the calories in a typical daily dietin many Asian countries.  Rice is also astaple in Africa.
Most of the world’s rice is grown in
Asia.  The plant, which grows from 8 to 12feet in height, can withstand a wide range
of climate conditions, but it grows best in
hot, humid areas.  Branching stems fromthe plant produce flowers, which form therice grains when fertilized.  There are morethan 8,000 varieties of rice.
Rice is commercially classified by its
grain size:
Short- grain (round- grain) rice— Short-
grain rice is round or oval and less than 1/5inch long.  It has a higher starch contentthat results in this rice being sticky aftercooking.  This kind of rice is also called278 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Italian dishes, and aromatic rices.  Generally,
aromatic rices—sometimes referred to as
perfumed rices—are long-grain types of
rice and have a distinct flavor typically com-pared to that of popcorn or nuts.  Basmatirice has a nut-like aroma and a rich, butteryflavor.  It is widely used in Indian andPakistani cuisine.  Jasmine rice is cultivatedprimarily in Southeast Asia and has a softtexture.  Glutenous, or sweet, rice has ahigh starch content and is used in Asiancooking to thicken sauces and makedumplings and for some types of desserts.Rice also can be milled into fine, powderyflour, which can be used in baked goods.
Store rice in an airtight container.  Brown
rice, which naturally contains oil, keeps forabout 6 months, but it is subject to rancidity.Its shelf life can be extended, however, bystoring it in the refrigerator in an airtightcontainer.  White rice can keep for up to ayear.  Cooked rice can be stored in the refrig-erator for several days, but it will last for 6 to8 months when kept in the freezer.
Preparation Tips 
Preparation varies according to the type ofrice used.  In general, however, rice ishave been partially cooked and then dried,
are available.
White rice is the most popular form of
rice.  One reason is that the milling process,which removes the husk, bran, and germ,makes the rice cook more rapidly and extendsits shelf life.  Unfortunately, it’s also the leastnutritious form of rice.  In Western nations,rice is enriched, meaning nutrients such asiron, niacin, riboflavin, and thiamin are
returned to the rice before it is sold to con-sumers.  Parboiled rice has been processed to
preserve some of the nutrients during milling. 
Instant rice is white rice that has been
milled, cooked, and then dehydrated.  Ittakes about 5 minutes to cook, and itsnutritional content is generally equivalentto that of white rice because most instantrice is enriched. 
Specialty types of rice include arborio
rice, which is round white rice used inpearl or glutenous rice (although there isno gluten in it).
Medium- grain rice— Medium-grain
rice is up to 1/4 inch in length.  It remainsfirm and light when cooked and retainsmore moisture than long-grain rice. 
Long-grain rice— This rice is more than
1/4 inch in length.  The grains are muchlonger than they are wide.  They tend toremain separate when cooked and are drierthan shorter-grain rice.  Most rice grownin the United States is long-grain rice.
Each type of rice comes in both brown
and white forms.  Brown rice has only thetough, fibrous hull removed from the ricegrain during processing.  Because of this,it retains most of its nutrients, whichinclude fiber (bran), potassium, phosphorus,and trace minerals.  It also is chewier, has astronger flavor, and takes longer to cook.Quick-cooking forms of brown rice, which
The delicate flavor of quinoa
mixes well with cooked vegetablesand fresh herbs.INFUSING RICEWITHFLAVOR
Extra flavor can easily be added to
rice as it cooks.  One way is to takethe desired spice or herb, mix it witha small amount of cooking oil(about a teaspoon or less), and add itto the water just before adding therice.  Spices and herbs also can beadded to rice after it is cooked.Spices and herbs that pair well withrice include cumin, caraway, basil,cilantro, mint, and parsley. cooked by adding it to liquid (two parts water
to one part rice) and then simmering it until
the liquid is absorbed.  Both brown rice
and parboiled rice may require longer cook-ing times; brown rice may need to simmerfor up to 40 minutes, for example.
Cooks differ about whether rice should
be rinsed before cooking.  Some believethat rinsing rice prevents stickiness.However, rinsing domestic rice can washoff nutrients added during processing.  Aquick tip:  to prevent stickiness, don’t stirthe rice while you are cooking it.  Cookingrice in a vegetable, beef, or chicken stockis a low-fat, low-calorie way to add flavorto rice before serving.  Rice flour is gluten-free.  It must be combined with higher-gluten flours (such as wheat) in baked goodsor they will not rise as desired.  
Servin g Suggestions
Few grains are as versatile or well loved asrice.  It can be served as a pilaf, which canbe jazzed up by adding cut-up vegetablesand seasonings.  Rice can be added to soups,stuffings, and salads.  In particular, it makesan excellent replacement for potatoes.  Ricealso serves as the base for vegetarian dishes.Used as the foundation for stir-fry dishes,it offers the perfect opportunity to make agrain the centerpiece of a meal, instead ofhaving the usual—and less healthful—focuson meat, poultry, or seafood.  Rice flourcan be used to thicken sauces.
A note about prepared rice mixes:
although popular, they’re often more expen-sive than plain rice and typically contain asignificant amount of sodium.  Rice is easyto cook on its own.  T ry adding yourfavorite herbs and seasonings; you canchoose how much (if any) salt you use.  Itwill likely taste just as good as or better thanthe boxed rice dishes, and it will almostalways be healthier.Grains 279
may be used whole, cracked, or rolled like
oats, but they are generally ground into flour.
Rye flour comes in several different
varieties.  Light rye flour has most of thebran removed.  Dark rye flour retains mostof the bran and germ and is a source ofmagnesium, trace minerals, folic acid,thiamin, and niacin. 
Dark rye flour is traditionally used to
make the dark, strongly flavored Germanbread called pumpernickel.  Rye also is usedin many alcoholic beverages, includingwhiskey and some types of vodka.Rye
Rye belongs to the same botanical family aswheat and barley.  The plant is indigenousto Europe and Asia.  The plant itself is oftenbushy at the base and stands 5 to 8 feet high.Rye grows well in areas where the soil is toopoor and the climate too cool for wheat.
Rye grains have the same elongated
shape as wheat grains.  The color rangesfrom buff to gray.  The husks are removedduring milling, but usually much of thegerm and bran remain, which enhances thenutritional value of rye products.  The grains
Varieties of rice (clockwise
from the top) :  jasmine,
basmati, arborio, white,and brown (center).280 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
work for almost all baked goods and pasta.
Wheat also is used in the manufacture ofbeer and whiskey.
The three major types of wheat are:
Hard— Hard wheat is high in protein
(10 to 14 percent).  It is also high in glutencontent, which gives the flour elasticity andmakes it particularly suitable for yeastbreads. 
Soft— The low-protein (6 to 10 percent)
flour is lower in gluten.  It’s often used tomake “softer” baked goods, such as cakes. 
Durum— This is the hardest wheat
grown and is highest in gluten.  Despitethat, it is not used in baked goods.  Instead,it is used to make semolina (see sidebar:What Is Semolina? page 287), the mainingredient of pasta.Wheat
Wheat is among the oldest of grain crops.Major wheat-producing areas include theUnited States, whose Great Plains are con-sidered the “breadbasket of the world,”Canada, China, western Europe, Ukraine,
Kazakhstan, Russia, India, Pakistan, and
Australia.
Wheat is an annual plant that grows
between 2 and 4 feet high, depending on
the variety of wheat grown and growing
conditions.  The grains are contained in abearded spike developed by the plant.Unlike many other grains, it can be difficultto cultivate.  Nevertheless, it is easily oneof the most common grains grown aroundthe world.  Only rice rivals it in production.
Most of the wheat grown in the world
is eaten by humans—often in the form ofbread.  Wheat’s high gluten content makesit particularly well adapted for this use.Because of this, wheat flour is the frame-Like most grain products, rye should be
stored in airtight containers to retard spoilage.
Preparation Tips
Whole rye grains are often cooked in the
same way as rice, that is, simmered in water
until they are tender.  However, rye grainsshould be pre-soaked in water several hoursto speed up cooking.  Rye flour has littlegluten, and therefore breads in which it isthe main flour are denser because they donot rise as well.  However, rye containsseveral long-chained 5-carbon sugars (pen-tosans), which have a high water-bindingcapacity.  This trait helps rye bread retainmoisture better than wheat bread. 
Servin g Suggestions 
Use dark rye flour to make your ownpumpernickel bread.  Also, substitute darkrye flour in place of some of the other flourin baked goods to add a nutty flavor. 
Traditional methods for growing
rice include the manual tasks ofsowing the seeds, transplanting,and harvesting by hand.THERYE AND ERGOT
CONNECTION
The poor soil and moist climate in
which rye grows are also favorableconditions for the growth of afungus called ergot, which can growon moisture-laden rye kernels.Ergot has long been known to havemedicinal properties, and today it isused in medications given duringchildbirth to promote contractionsof the uterus and control bleeding.It also is used in some migraineheadache medications.  Ingesting toomuch of it, however, may lead tohallucinogenic effects.  A derivativeof ergot is lysergic acid diethylamide(LSD).  Modern milling processesclean rye grains and remove any thatmay be contaminated with ergot. Wheat also is classified according to
the time of year it is planted.  Spring wheat,
as its name suggests, is sown in the spring.
Winter wheat is grown in areas with moremoderate winters and is sown in the latefall.
Literally thousands of products are
made from wheat—flour, bread, and pastaare just the fundamental items.  Whole-wheat products, however, are the mostnutritious because they have not beenmilled as extensively as more refinedproducts.  Whole-wheat products includethe following:
Cracked wheat— As the name implies,
this is wheat seed that has been broken intosmall pieces.  It can be finely or coarselycracked.
Bulgur—A popular ingredient in many
Middle East dishes, bulgur is a type ofcracked wheat that has been steam-cookedand dried.  Because of this, it does notrequire as much cooking time as otherwhole-wheat products.  Bulgur is used formaking tabbouleh (a well-known MiddleEast cuisine favorite), cereal, and pilaf.  Itis available in a variety of grinds, from fineto coarse.Grains 281
is added to bread for extra crunch and
nutrition.  Wheat flakes make excellent addi-
tions to hot cereals or baked goods.  Wheat
groats have a strong, nut-like flavor.  Theyare used in bread doughs or soups or areserved on their own as a pilaf, for example.Wheat groats also can be eaten sprouted. Farina— A breakfast favorite, farina is
perhaps better known as Cream of Wheat.
It is made from the endosperm of the wheat
seed, which is then milled very finely.Farina can be used in dumplings, maindishes, or desserts, particularly in Indianand Greek cuisine.
Wheat flakes— Also known as rolled
wheat, these are wheat seeds that have beenflattened.  They look like rolled oats,although they are slightly larger and thicker.Although it might be easy to picture theseas the main component of many cold break-fast cereals, wheat flakes are not the productused in these cereals.
Groats or wheat berries— These are
other names for wheat seeds sold whole.Because they have undergone very littlemilling, these are among the most nutri-tious of wheat products.
Preparation Tips 
If buying whole-wheat kernels in bulk, washthe product before use to remove debris.Those that are packaged typically do notneed to be rinsed.
The various forms of whole wheat that
are used in hot cereals or served as sidedishes are generally cooked by adding waterto them and simmering until the water isgone.  Cooking time varies, although ageneral rule is that cracked wheat requiresless cooking time than whole wheat.  Mostwhole-wheat products have cookinginstructions on their labels.  Because thewheat germ contains fat, whole-wheat grainand products made from it should be refrig-erated to prevent spoiling.
Servin g Suggestions
Whole-wheat products can be served ontheir own as a hot cereal or pilaf.  They alsocan be added to other dishes for extra nutri-
tion and taste.  Cracked wheat, for example,ANATOMY OF A WHEAT SEED
The wheat seed, sometimes referredto as a wheat berry, is comprised ofthree parts:
Wheat germ— This is the sprout,
or embryo, found inside the wheatseed.  It is oily and is a highly con-centrated source of nutrients.Products made from wheat germ (an excellent source of vitamin E)include wheat germ oil and toastedwheat germ.
Wheat bran— The wheat bran is
the tough outer covering of thewheat seed.  The bran is typicallyremoved during milling.  Thisprocessing is unfortunate becausethe bran is an excellent source ofinsoluble fiber.  Cooks often use it toadd taste and nutrition to meat loaf,casseroles, and baked goods. 
Endosperm— The endosperm
constitutes the majority of the materialwithin the wheat seed and is meantto nourish a seedling.  Most of theprotein and carbohydrates and smallamounts of vitamins are in theendosperm.  It is composed mainlyof starch and is the main ingredientin wheat flour and other wheatproducts. 
WHATISTRITICALE ?
T riticale is a 20th-century hybridthat is a cross between wheat andrye.  It combines the nutritionalbenefits of both: the high proteincontent of wheat and the high lysinecontent of rye.  Several varieties areunder cultivation.  Researchers arestudying ways to improve the yieldand adaptability of this unique crop. Wild Rice
Not really a rice, although closely related
to it genetically, wild rice is actually anaquatic grain.  It is the seed of a marsh grassthat grows in the northern Great Lakes areaof the United States.  It is known for itshazelnut-like flavor, dark-brown color, andchewy texture.  American Indians, whoonce waged wars over areas where wild ricegrew abundantly, have harvested it forcenturies.  These indigenous peoples calledwild rice “mahnomen,” meaning “preciousgift from the gods.”
First domesticated successfully in the
1950s after many attempts to mimic themoist, murky conditions where the wildrice-producing grass grows best, wild rice
is now grown commercially in the UpperMidwest and in California.  The crop isnow worth more than $20 million annually.Most wild rice is eaten whole, but it alsocan be ground into flour.282 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Grain Products
Bread
Bread is such a fundamental food that the
word “bread” itself is often equivalent to
“food” or “money” in many parts of the
world.  Although it is a simple food, breadrequires the conversion of grain into flour,leavening ingredients, and a means ofbaking.  Bread also plays a role in manycustomary rituals, such as the breaking andblessing of bread in religious rites. 
Although there are hundreds of differ-
ent types of bread, the main types areleavened (meaning raised) and unleavenedbreads.  There are also quick breads, inwhich baking powder or baking soda is usedas a leavening agent.
The main ingredients in most breads
are the following:
Flour— The powdery material from
ground grain, flour is the main ingredientin bread.  Because of its high gluten content,wheat flour lends itself best to breadmaking.  The gluten, when mixed withwater, gives the bread dough elasticity.  Thisallows the dough to expand when the yeastferments, yet it is strong enough to containit.  The result is light and airy bread.  Anygrain can be used to make bread.  In coun-tries where wheat is less readily available,grains that are used include millet, barley,rye, and oats. 
Liquid— Water is the most common
liquid in bread making, but beer, milk, andfruit juice also can be used.  Liquid isneeded in raised bread to allow the glutenin flour to do its work.  The type of liquidused can result in the bread having differentproperties.  Water, for example, will resultin a thick crust.
Yeast— Yeast is a one-celled organism
that is used to leaven bread.  Unleavenedbreads and quick breads do not contain
Preparation TipsWash wild rice before cooking.  The basicpreparation recipe for wild rice is to place1 cup of wild rice in a saucepan with 4 cupsof water (chicken or beef stock can beadded for flavor).  Bring the mixture to aboil and then reduce the heat.  Simmer the
rice covered for 40 to 50 minutes until it
is tender and most of the grains have splitevenly.
Servin g Suggestions
Wild rice is mixed into a multitude ofdishes, from everyday cooking to gourmetcreations.  Use cooked wild rice in place ofpasta products in casseroles or salads.  Itcan be used in place of bulgur in tabboulehsalads or as the base for stir-fry dishesinstead of white rice.  Mixed with vegetablesor small amounts of meat, poultry, or fish,wild rice provides the base for an excellententrée.
yeast.  When yeast ferments the sub stances
naturally present in flour, it produces a g as
called carb on dioxide.  Bread rises as the
gluten in the dough traps this gas.  Yeast is
also responsib le for b read’s delicious aroma
and gives it its flavor.
Salt—Bread can be made without this
staple, but salt does several things when it
is added to doug h.  It adds flavor, helps
streng then the g luten, and helps reg ulate
yeast production.
Optional ingredients—T wo ing redients
that do not have to be added to bread but
often are include sug ar and fat.  Sug ar pro-
vides a ready food source for the multiply-ing yeast, adds flavor to b read, and helps it
stay moist.  Fat is often used in commercialbread making .  It adds flavor and tender-
ness. In addition, it gives the dough more
elastic qualities, allowing  it to expand more.
The most common type of b read eaten
in the United States is made from refined
white flour.  Althou gh enriched during
processing  and b aking , not all of the
nutrients lost when the flour is refined are
returned to it.  A more nutritious choice iswhole-wheat bread.  Whole-wheat b read is
made from flour g round from whole-wheat
grains—meaning  the b ran and the g erm
also are used.  Make sure the lab el indicates
that only whole-wheat flour was used.Otherwise, whole wheat or cracked wheatmay have been added to white flour. 
Common types of breads are as follows:
Bagels—Once only an ethnic delicacy,
bagels have g one mainstream and are now
enjoyed by just about everyone as a break-
fast main course, the foundation for a sand-
wich, or a nutritious snack.  These donut-shaped rolls are made from flour, yeast,and salt.  T radition calls for them to b e
boiled before they’re baked—a process that
gives them a characteristic shiny appearanceGrains 283
Flat breads— Named for their shape,
flat breads are rolled out and allowed to rise
only minimally.  They are b aked only until
they are soft.  Pita b read (sometimes referred
to as pocket b read) is a common type of
flat bread.  Other types include crackers
and tortillas, which are commonly made
from corn.  and chewy texture.  Bagels can be flavoredin many ways, althoug h favorites include
onions or raisins.  A word of caution:  g en-
erally a nutritious food choice, b agels can
be high in calories depending  on their size,
ingredients, and choice of topping .  Check
the lab el or ask the deli for nutrition infor-
mation so you know what you are getting .
284 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
French bread— Sometimes referred to
as baguettes because of the traditional elon-
gated shape of the loaf, French bread has a
thick, shiny crust and a chewy texture.Coating the dough with egg whites beforebaking gives the crust its characteristic prop-erties.  The bread is traditionally made with-out preservatives.
Pumpernickel— Rye flour gives this
bread its hearty flavor and its dense, chewy
texture.  Rye flour does not contain as muchgluten as wheat flour and, therefore, the
bread does not rise as much as bread madewith wheat flour.  Caramel or molasses givesit its dark color.
Rye bread— Rye bread also is made
with rye flour, but the flour is usually mixedwith wheat flour during preparation.  Lookat labels to determine how much rye floura bread contains.  As little as 3 percent isall that is needed to call it rye bread.
Sourdou gh—Bread aficionados know
this bread for its characteristic tangy taste
and smell.  The leavening for sourdoughbreads is a type of bacterium, such as
Lactobacilli , that produces carbon dioxide(to leaven the bread) and lactic acid (for a
sour taste).  Sometimes both bacteria and
yeast are in the bread starter, in which case
two types of fermentation occur.  This isthe type of starter used for San Franciscosourdough breads.
Always buy the freshest bread possible.
Look at expiration dates on packages, andcheck to ensure there is no mold growthon the bread.  Check labels to find out howmuch fat or salt has been added.  If pur-chasing whole-grain or so-called multi-grainbread, check labels to find out how muchGrains 285
whole-grain flour has been used.  Often, it
is mixed with more refined types of flour.
Preparation Tips
Experimenting with different flours is an
excellent idea, allowing you to add both
taste and nutrition to regular recipes.  Keepin mind the gluten content of the flour youare working with, however.  Otherwise, theresult may not be as desired.  It may take afew tries to find out how much rye flour,or wheat bran, you should add.  Loaves ofbread should be stored wrapped to keepthem from drying out.  Sliced bread willkeep for up to a week at room temperatureand for about 2 months in the freezer. 
A quick note about nutrition: toasting
bread can reduce the amount of some keynutrients by as much as 20 percent.
Servin g Suggestions
Bread can be used as slices, cubes, or crumbs.Hollowed-out loaves of bread make simple,edible containers for soups or dips.  Breadcut into small pieces was the most commonthickening agent in early European cooking,particularly poultry stuffing.  Bread crumbsare often used to add body to foods, such as
steamed pudding, sausages, and meat loaf.Bread croutons, or “little crusts,” are addedto soups and salads for texture and taste.T ry using different breads—such as pitabreads—to give sandwiches a different twist. 
Cereals
Although cereal has traditionally been asynonym for grain, most people think of ittoday as the food that comes packaged in a
bright box and is poured into a bowl ofmilk in the morning for breakfast.
Hundreds of cereals are available in just
about any American supermarket today.Dr. John Harvey Kellogg, inventor of aflattened, toasted wheat flake in the late
1800s, would probably be surprised at theenthusiasm for his invention and the deriv-atives of it. 
For several decades after Kellogg’s wheat
flake was introduced (followed closely by
corn flakes and shredded wheat), marketers
touted the cereals as the key to both healthand vitality.  Today, corn, wheat, oats, andeven some lesser-known grains such asamaranth and quinoa are puffed, popped,baked, shredded, or processed into “Os,”
letters of the alphabet, and even in the shapeof popular cartoon characters.
Unfortunately, cereal’s reputation as a
healthful food has suffered.  Many cereals area wise breakfast choice, but too many of them
(particularly children’s cereals) also have sugarand artificial flavorings and colors added tothem.  Granola-based cereals and many thatpurport to be rich in oat bran or fiber alsomay be high in fat.  Checking the labels tosee what you are getting is always a good idea.One ingredient to look for in particular ishydrogenated fat, which contains a type offat called trans fatty acids.  T rans fatty acidshave been linked to an increased risk of car-diovascular disease. 
Preparation Tips
Consider the nutrition of the other mainingredient in a bowl of cereal: milk.  Thetype you choose can have a major effect onthe nutrition of a meal based on a bowl ofcereal.  Choose skim milk.  Skim milkreduces calories and saturated fat signifi-cantly yet provides the same nutrients aswhole milk.
Whole grains for hot cereal can be
purchased at specialty stores and in thenatural food aisle of many supermarkets.
Follow label instructions for cooking. 
PALMITATE IN CEREALS
Many people, particularly those who are watching fat intake closely, wonderwhether palmitate, a common ingredient in cereals, is the same as palm oil.  Palmoil is high in saturated fat—the type of fat linked most closely with cardiovasculardisease.  Palmitate is a form of palmitic acid, one of the saturated fatty acids foundin palm oil.  Vegetable fats, such as soybean oil, also contain palmitic acid.  However, cerealmanufacturers add a very small amountof palmitate to stabilize vitamin Aand maintain the nutrient'spotency.  You will often see the
ingredient listed as “vitamin Apalmitate.”  There is no need toworry about the tiny amounts of palmitate added to cereals.Servin g Suggestions
T ry adding cold cereal to reduced-fat or
nonfat yogurt for a crunchy, creamy treat.
Or, top off cold cereal with sliced fruit ofyour own choosing.  Fruit added to cerealsby manufacturers is often high in sodiumand sugar, and usually there is not a lot ofit in the box.  Add nutrition to a bowl ofhot or cold cereal by sprinkling wheat branor germ over it. 
Flour
Flour is the powdery substance made fromgrinding grains.  Flour has been used bynearly every culture in the world for makingfoods—usually breads—that are staples inthe diet.  Wheat is usually used, but flour286 Part II     Encyclopedia of Foods
The characteristics of flour depend on
the type of material used to make it.  Because
most flour is used to make bread and other
baked goods, most flour is ground fromwheat.  The high gluten content of wheatworks well in leavened bread, leading to alight and airy finished product.  Most wheatflour contains a combination of flour fromhard and soft wheat. Hard wheats containmore protein and gluten, and soft wheatflours make for a more delicate texture. 
Types of flour include the following:
All-purpose flour— This is what is typ-
ically on the shelf at the supermarket.  A
blend of hard and soft wheat flour, all-pur-
pose flour has a wide range of uses and
works well in breads or pastries.  Look atcan be ground from almost any grain andsometimes is ground from potatoes,peanuts, chickpeas, lentils, and edible rootsof plants.
Flour was traditionally ground by hand
or by stone, but today’s flour undergoes anextensive process in which grain seeds arepulverized by steel rollers.  More refined flourhas the bran and the germ—and thus, thenutrition—removed from the seed.  Flouris mostly composed of the seed’s starchyendosperm.  However, the germ and bran
are returned to the flour at the end of the
milling process in whole-grain flours.  For
other types of flour, nutrients are returnedat the end of the process, although not allof them are returned.  Check the label to seewhether the flour has been enriched. 
Imagine what it would be like if eating pizza, pasta, most
breads, cookies, cakes, candy bars, canned soup, or luncheonmeats or drinking a beer left you with cramps, diarrhea,anemia, and even osteoporosis.  For many people with celiacdisease, that is a reality.
Celiac disease, also called celiac sprue, is a hereditary
disease that occurs when a protein called gluten found inwheat, barley, rye, and possibly oats generates an immune
reaction in the small intestine of genetically susceptiblepeople.  As a result, tiny hair-like projections in the smallintestine, called villi, shrink and sometimes disappear.  Thevilli then are not able to absorb nutrients from food, and theresult is abnormally colored, foul-smelling stools and weightloss.  This malabsorption also can deprive the brain, nervoussystem, bones, liver, and other organs of nourishment andcause vitamin and mineral deficiencies that may lead to other medical problems.
About 1 in 500 people in the United States has celiac
disease—about 500,000 Americans.  Some speculate thatceliac disease has affected humans since they first switchedfrom a foraging diet of meat and nuts to a cultivated diet thatincluded high-protein grasses such as wheat.  Physicians havegained an understanding of the disease and how to treat it inonly the past 50 years.  Today, people with celiac disease are
able to lead nearly normal, healthy lives.
A gluten-free diet—a lifelong and complete avoidance of
wheat, rye, barley, and oats and any foods that contain them—is the only way to treat this disease.  Following such a diet isnot as easy as it seems because many processed foods andmedications contain gluten. 
Once gluten is removed from the diet, the digestive tract
begins healing within several days.  Significant healing andregrowth of the villi may take several months in youngpeople and as long as 2 to 3 years in older persons.
Foods allowed in a gluten-free diet include fresh meats,
fish, poultry, milk and unprocessed cheeses, dried beans,plain fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, and gluten-freegrains such as corn and rice.
Identifying gluten-free foods can be difficult.  People with
celiac disease should discuss their food selections with theirphysician and a registered dietitian.  A dietitian also canadvise how best to improve the nutritional quality of a diet.Food manufacturers can be contacted to find out whether aproduct contains gluten.  Celiac disease support groups andInternet sites also may have information on the ingredientsfound in food products. 
CELIAC DISEASEthe label to see whether the flour has been
bleached.  Manufacturers often bleach it to
whiten it.  One result is that the flour may
have more gluten.  Unbleached flours, how-ever, may have more flavor.
Bread flour— A specialty flour used for
bread making, this flour has a higher glutencontent.
Cake flour— Made exclusively of soft
wheat, this very refined flour gives cakes a
light, soft texture.  Because it is so refined,it has a low gluten content and cannot be
used to make raised breads.  Pastry flour is
a less refined version of cake flour.
Durum flour— Made from hard wheat,
durum flour is often used in pasta becauseit is high in gluten.
Gluten flour— This flour undergoes a
manufacturing process so that its gluten
has about twice the strength of regular flour.It is useful for adding to recipes to balanceflours that are low in gluten.
Self-risin g flour—T his flour contains
salt and a leavening agent, such as bakingsoda.  It should not be used in yeast breads.In addition, leavening agents in this flourcan lose strength with age.
Whole-wheat or whole- grain flour—
This is flour that has the wheat germ andbran (or the bran and germ from the grainbeing used) that were removed duringmilling added back before it is packagedfor consumers.  Sometimes this is calledgraham flour.  This type of flour is higherin nutrients.
Preparation Tips
Proper storage of flour is essential becauseflour can spoil—sometimes quickly underthe right conditions.  The result is an objec-tionable odor and inferior baked products.
How to store flour depends on the type
being used.  It is best to store whole-grainflours in airtight containers in the freezer.Grains 287
only semolina, which does not absorb as
much water and is pleasantly firm when
cooked al dente (slightly firm).
Pasta also may include other ingredi-
ents.  Some doughs have a little egg added.Other ingredients may include soybean andmung bean flour, vegetables (spinach, toma-toes, beets, carrots), gluten, whey, herbs,spices, and flavorings.  Color can be pro-vided by vegetable purées or food coloring. 
Pasta comes in literally hundreds of
shapes, sizes, thicknesses, and colors.  TheU.S. Food and Drug Administration(FDA), however, groups it all into two maincategories:
Macaroni— This includes just about
every pasta shape and size.  The FDA requiresthat macaroni be made from durum wheat
flour or semolina.  Ingredients such as salt,
eggs, and flavorings also may be added. 
Noodles— Noodles are generally made
with softer durum wheat flours thansemolina and contain egg.  In addition, the
amount of egg they can contain is limited
to 5 1/2 percent of weight or less. 
The shape and choice of the pasta you
choose depend on what you like and howit will be served.  A general rule is thatthinner pastas are best in soups and stews.Whole-grain flours will stay fresh for up toa year this way.  Whole-grain flours includethe germ of the grain, which containspolyunsaturated fat.  This fat is susceptibleto oxidation and rancidity the longer it isexposed to air. 
Refined flours have only the starchy
endosperm of the grain.  Such flours can bestored at room temperature up to a year orin the freezer for up to 2 years.  Airtight con-tainers will keep refined flours tasting fresh.
Because flour can spoil, it may be wise
to purchase flours in small quantities so
you use them up more quickly.
Servin g Suggestions
Flour is the basis for most baked goods.Although wheat flour is typically used, othertypes of flour can be used to boost flavor andnutrition.  Flour also typically is used as athickening agent in soups, stews, and creams.
Pasta
The origins of this popular and versatilefood are lost in the mists of history; severalcountries (China, Japan, and Italy, just toname a few) claim credit for pasta.  Nearlyevery country, however, has some pastavariation to claim as its own. 
The term “pasta” is used broadly and
generically to describe a wide variety ofnoodles made from dough.  The word“pasta” itself is thought to be derived fromthe Italian word for paste. 
The main ingredients in pasta dough
are flour—which is usually made fromdurum wheat and is called semolina—anda liquid.  The dough is rolled out, cut orpressed into the desired shape, and readiedfor sale.  Pasta is sold fresh, frozen, or dried.Imported dried pasta is considered superi-or to American-made products, mainlybecause the imported pasta is made with
WHATISSEMOLINA ?
Semolina is a yellow, granular flourthat is ground from durum wheat.The word is derived from the Latin“simila,” which means fine whiteflour.  Semolina is made from the
endosperm of the durum wheat 
seed. It has a high protein content.Although it can be used in a varietyof baked goods, semolina mainly isused to make pasta. 288 Part II     Encyclopedia of Foods
PASTACOOKING TIMES
Type
Dried Fresh
Pasta (in minutes) (in minutes)
Cannelloni 8 1/2-2
Shells 10 3Farfalle (bowties) 7-10 2-3Fettuccine 8-9 1 1/2-3Lasagna 10 2-4Linguine 5-7 1 1/2-2Macaroni 9-10 Not ava ilable
Ravioli Not av ailable 7-9
Spaghetti 7-9 2-3Tortellini 9-11 7-9Pasta that is curved or tubular is thought
to soak up creams and sauces better. 
The color and crispness of dried pasta
determine quality.  White pasta should beslightly golden and translucent, not grayishor cloudy.  Spaghetti should have thespringiness of fresh twigs.  A good-qualityflat noodle will fracture in a jagged linewhen broken and not look starchy.  Checkfresh pasta for expiration dates.
Dried pasta should be stored airtight
in a cool, dry place and can be kept almostindefinitely.  Fresh pasta should have apleasant aroma.  It is highly perishable andwill keep for several days in the refrigeratorand for up to a month in the freezer.
Cooked pasta will keep in the refrigeratorfor up to 5 days.
Preparation Tips
Pasta is cooked by adding it to boiling water.If desired, add a pinch of salt for flavor anda small amount of oil to the water.  The oilwill help prevent the pasta from becomingsticky.  Then, cook the pasta until it is done.
Doneness is mostly a matter of taste—howfirm or soft do you like it?  Many cooks usethe term “al dente” in reference to pastadoneness.  Al dente simply means cookingthe pasta until it is firm to the bite. 
Cooking time varies, however, depend-
ing on whether the pasta is fresh or dried.It also depends on whether the pasta ismade from soft or hard flour.  Generally,pasta made from hard wheat flour is cookedlonger than pasta made from soft wheatflour.  Fresh pasta cooks much faster thandried pasta. Grains 289
Asian noodles come in varying lengths
and widths.  Chinese wheat noodles are
usually made from wheat, water, and salt,
and eggs are sometimes added.  In Japan,wheat noodles are classified by size:  thinnoodles are called somen, and thick noodlesare called udon.  Other types of noodlesare the following:
Buckwheat noodles— Called soba by
the Japanese, these noodles can be pur-
chased fresh or dried. 
Mun g bean noodles— These noodles
are transparent and sometimes referred to
as cellophane noodles.  They are added to
various dishes, including many soups.
Rice noodles— Made from rice flour
and water, rice noodles vary widely in sizeand texture. 
Preparation Tips
Noodles should be soft and look fresh.  Yourbest bet for fresh noodles is to buy themfrom an Asian specialty food store.Cooking methods vary, as do cookingtimes.  Most noodles, however, are cooked
initially by adding them to boiling water.
Some noodles may need to be soaked beforecooking.  Follow package instructions.
Servin g Suggestions
Although fried Asian noodles are added tovarious dishes, healthier alternatives includeserving chilled buckwheat noodles withlow-sodium soy sauce or adding variousAsian noodles to soups and stews.  Asiannoodles can also be added to stir-fry dishesor mixed in salads with cooked vegetablesand strips of cooked chicken or beef.If desired, rinse pasta with cold water
after removing it from heat.  Some pastas
used in baked dishes—such as lasagna,
manicotti, and cannelloni—do not requireprecooking, but they usually require agreater amount of sauce, which is absorbedby the pasta as it cooks.  Pasta that is cookedfor a long time loses slightly more of itswater-soluble B vitamins than pasta cookedal dente. 
Servin g Suggestions
Pasta itself is low in calories and fat, butsauces that are heavy and fatty, as well as otheradditions, can negate pasta’s nutritionaladvantages.  Fortunately, healthy optionsabound.  Supermarkets offer a wide varietyof reduced-fat pasta sauces or those that arevegetable- and herb-based.  Tomato-based
sauces are also easy—and quick—to makefrom scratch.  Simply use several cans of
whole, peeled tomatoes, crush them, andthen simmer them in a skillet until theyturn “saucy.”  Add desired seasonings (garlic,pepper, and salt work well) and a smallamount of olive oil to the cooking mixture.Top with reduced-fat cheeses.  Pasta is alsoexcellent served cold when tossed with alittle oil, vinegar, garlic, and fresh herbs. 
Asian Noodles
Noodles have been part of Asian cuisine forcenturies and continue to play a central rolein many well-loved dishes.  They are servedin ways most Westerners are familiar with:either chilled or hot, covered with a sauceor dressing, or added to soups or stews.291
Nutritionists have long recognized that
Americans generally eat too many animal-based proteins.  That’s one of the reasons the“meat group” makes up just a small segmentof the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
(USDA) Food Guide Pyramid.  It’s also why
the Food Guide Pyramid no longer refers toproteins as “meat” alone. 
Although most people associate protein
with only meat, there are many other waysto add this critical nutrient to the diet.  Thischapter covers the traditional animal sourcesof protein in the diet.  It also introducesyou to alternative plant-based sources andprovides tips on incorporating a variety ofthese foods into a healthful diet.
Because of the wide variety of high-pro-
tein foods, this chapter has been organizedinto the following sections to make it easierto learn about them: Compared with other populations, Americans have always found plentiful sources of proteinsfrom both animal and plant sources.  Ever since the 1800s, fueled by a growing American
cattle industry and refrigerated railroad cars, meat has been viewed as the key component to ameal.  If you doubt that statement, think of the last time you were asked, “What’s for dinner?”Even if the menu included a balanced meal of green salad, glazed carrots, brown rice, and a smalllean steak,  many people would respond, “We’re having steak.”
So important is the idea of meat — or protein of any kind — that it’s considered a meal in
and of itself. 
Protein is an important nutrient in the diet.  That’s undisputed.  The trouble is that most
Americans consume too much of it, particularly animal-based proteins, which are high insaturated fat and cholesterol, both of which are linked to cardiovascular disease.
Most people need just 5 to 6 ounces a day of high-protein foods.  
That may sound like a lot, but it isn’t.  A 2- to 3-ounce serving of meat is about the size of a deck of cards.  Now think of the giant portions of meat and other high-protein foods often served at restaurants.  Eating two to three times as much protein as you need in a day can easily be accomplished in just one restaurant meal. 
• Poultry • Shellfish
• Eggs • Legumes• Meat • Nuts and Seeds• Fish
Poultry
When nomadic hunters and gatherers first
became farmers, they realized the impor-tance of raising birds.  The egg could beeaten, the feathers were used for beddingand clothing, and the flesh made a fineroast.  It also was economical to keeppoultry; cattle needed miles of grazing land,but a chicken could peck around a yard and
keep itself fed.  Until mass production tech-niques, poultry meat was fairly expensive;new technology has made poultry more
affordable through breeding and produc-tion techniques.
Today, poultry is defined as any domes-
tic bird used as food.  There are manydomesticated varieties of poultry, includ-ing chicken, turkey, duck, goose, RockCornish hen, guinea fowl, and pheasant.Generally, all types of birds are sold fresh,frozen, or cooked.  They can be purchasedwhole, halved, or in pieces, such as bonelessbreasts, strips, or medallions.  Buying awhole bird is typically least expensivebecause additional processing adds cost. 
Poultry is a versatile addition to any
meal and can be prepared with just about
any cooking method.  A recommendedserving, no matter how it is prepared, is stillabout 2 to 3 ounces ready to eat, withoutbone or skin. High-Protein Foods 
Includes :Poultry, Eggs, Meat, Fish, Shellfish, Legumes, Nuts & Seeds292 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
or more, after handling raw poultry.  In
addition, disinfect any surface or utensil
that came in contact with the raw bird. 
Thorough cooking destroys any disease-
causing organisms (pathogens) in meat.Use a meat thermometer and cook poultryuntil the internal temperature reaches 180°Fahrenheit.  The center of the chickenshould be white with no sign of pink. 
The following pages provide an overview
of the main types of poultry: chicken, duck,game birds, goose, and turkey.
Chicken
Thanks in large part to chicken’s low price,
low fat, and high versatility, the amount ofchicken consumed in the United States hasincreased exponentially.
That wasn’t always the case.  Even
though chicken is one of the oldest livingspecies of animal, it was a rarity on thedinner table.  King Henri IV of Francestated in his coronation speech that hehoped each peasant in his realm would have“a chicken in his pot every Sunday.”  At onetime, only the rich (and chicken farmers)could manage the proverbial Sundaychicken.  Today, thanks to modern pro-duction methods, almost anyone can afford
chicken.  In fact, adjusted for inflation,chicken is only a third the price it was 40years ago.
Chicken consumption also has
increased because of increasing awarenessof the need to reduce fat in the diet.Chicken, as long as the skin is not eaten, isgenerally lower in fat than most other typesof meat.  At least half of the fat in a chick-en is in the skin.
The government grades chicken quality
with USDA classifications A, B, and C,which are based on meatiness, appearance,and how intact the skin and bones are.Stora ge
Always keep poultry refrigerated at 40°Fahrenheit.  Poultry can be stored in itsoriginal wrapping.  If freezing, over-wrapwith airtight foil or freezer bags to prevent
freezer burn.  Frozen poultry can be storedfor up to 12 months if it is purchased wholeand 6 to 9 months if it is purchased aspoultry parts.  Frozen poultry should alwaysbe defrosted in the refrigerator and cookedin less than 24 hours after thawing.Refrigerated poultry should be cooked within2 to 3 days.
Safety Issues
Poultry is a particular concern when itcomes to food-borne disease.  The gas-
trointestinal systems of poultry frequentlyharbor harmful microorganisms.  Massslaughtering processes offer ample oppor-tunity for these organisms to contaminate
the meat.  Outbreaks of Salmonella , a bac-
terium that causes vomiting and diarrhea,are often associated with eating contami-nated poultry.  Another microorganismfound on chicken is Campylobacter , a bac-
terium that can cause severe diar-
rhea and stomach cramping.
At the store, avoid cross-
contamination by putting
poultry in plastic bags to
prevent leakage onto
other foods.  At home,
prevent raw poultry
from coming into con-
tact with other foods by
using separate cutting
boards and utensils during
meal preparation.  Always
quickly disinfect any surface or
utensil that has come in contact
with any raw poultry.  In addi-
tion, wash hands with hot water
and soap, lathering for 20 secondsNutritionAll poultry, which is defined as any domes-tic bird used as food, is a nutritional star.Classified as a complete protein, poultrymeat is a good source of phosphorus andzinc and an excellent source of niacin.
The fat content of poultry depends on
the bird.  Goose and duck are the fattiesttypes of poultry.  (See the Appendix:Dietary Reference Intakes, page 460.)However, poultry generally contains lessfat than meat from other animals.  To elim-inate significant fat, do not eat the skin.Cooking the meat with or without the skinmakes little difference in fat content.  Themeat will be more moist if the skin is left onduring cooking.
Selection
When buying fresh poultry, look for meatthat is supple and moist and has no dry ordiscolored patches.  Another importantcriterion is odor.  Avoid birds that have anobjectionable smell.  Do not buy frozenpoultry that is dried out or is covered withfrost.  A sure sign that a bird has beenfrozen, thawed, and refrozen is thepresence of pinkish ice on the carcass.Grade A chickens, the highest grade, are usu-
ally found in markets.  Grade B chickens are
less meaty, and grade C birds are scrawnier
yet.  B- and C-graded chickens often areused for processed and packaged foods.  Thegrade stamp can be found within a shieldon the package wrapping, or sometimes ona tag attached to the bird's wing.  Manyungraded chickens find their way to storesbecause grading is not mandatory.
Chickens called “broilers” are butchered
at about 7 weeks of age, when they weigh
between 2 and 4 pounds.  The term “fryer”is often given to larger birds from this agerange.  “Roasting chickens” generally weighmore than 4 pounds and are slaughteredwhen they reach 10 weeks.  “Stewingchickens” — also known as hens or boil-ing fowl — range in age from 10 to 18months.  They can weigh between 3 and 6pounds.  Generally, they are used for stewsand soups because their meat is tougher.
Shoppers may also encounter other terms
to describe chicken.  A Rock Cornish hen(or game hen) is a chicken hybrid that weighsabout 2 pounds when butchered.  Becausethere is relatively little meat on the carcass,each hen is typically considered 1 serving.
Another type of chicken in stores is called
free-range chicken.  According to the USDA,this term means that the chicken was allowedto roam outdoors.  Depending on the man-ufacturer, the chicken may or may not havebeen fed a vegetarian diet free of hormones,growth enhancers, and antibiotics.  Somebelieve that this special treatment results ina fuller-flavored chicken.  One thing certainis that it adds to the expense.  Most free-range chickens are far more expensive perpound than regular chicken.
A tip for shoppers: larger chickens are
a better buy because there is more flesh onthe bones.  With smaller chickens, you donot get as much meat and you pay for bones.High-Protein Foods 293
Servin g Suggestions
Chicken is extremely versatile.  Because ofits popularity, entire cookbooks have beenwritten focusing on only this bird.  It seemsalmost every ethnicity has its own way touse chicken — Indian curry chicken,Chinese stir-fry, Mexican chicken enchi-ladas, Spanish paella, and Italian chickenparmesan.  Chicken’s flavor is enhanced byalmost any herb, spice, or condiment. 
Frying is also a popular way to serve
chicken.  However, this cooking methodadds extra fat and calories, detracting fromthe health benefits of eating chicken.  Ifeating at a fast-food restaurant, choosegrilled chicken instead of chicken that hasbeen breaded and deep-fried.Preparation TipsKeep chicken refrigerated until you are readyto use it, or freeze it and then thaw it in therefrigerator.  Cut away any excess fat, butkeep the skin on while cooking to provideflavor, then remove the skin for a healthierentrée.  Chicken lends itself to a variety ofcooking preparations, including baking,broiling, boiling, roasting, frying, braising,barbecuing, stir-frying, and stewing.Boneless chicken requires less cooking time.However, this type of chicken will taste morebland because the bones and the skin addthat real “chickeny” flavor.  Yet, boneless
chicken picks up the flavors of other foods,herbs, and spices it is cooked with, such astarragon, ginger, garlic, and vegetables.
Roasted chickenDuck
Duck, or duckling, includes any of the 80
different species of wild or domestic birdswith webbed feet.  Today, several majorbreeds of duck are raised for their meat.These domesticated ducks may be threetimes larger than their wilderness-rearedrelatives.  
Duck is very popular in Europe and
China, where more duck is eaten each yearthan chicken.  In the United States, how-ever, duck is usually perceived as a specialholiday dish, if eaten at all, becauseAmericans annually eat less than a poundof duck per person.  In contrast, Americanseat close to 50 pounds of chicken per year.
The consumption level may be lower
because Americans consider ducks to be
fatty and scrawny.  The perception of ducksas fatty rings true, because ducks are oneweigh between 3 and 7 1/2 pounds.  Olderducks are generally larger.  Almost all ducks
sold in stores are frozen so that they areavailable year-round.
Preparation Tips
Fresh duck should have a broad, fairly plumpbreast; the skin should be elastic, not saggy.For frozen birds, the packaging should betight and unbroken.  Frozen duck should bethawed in the refrigerator, a process that takesfrom 24 to 36 hours, depending on the sizeof the bird. Duck should not be refrozenonce it has been thawed.
Before cooking, all visible fat should be
removed.  Also, prick the skin with a fork
to help the fat melt and drip away from thebird during roasting.  Some cooks also
remove the skin and underlying fat.  Cookwhole birds to 180° Fahrenheit, breasts to170° Fahrenheit, and legs, thighs, and wingsto 180° Fahrenheit.
Servin g Suggestions
Duck can be prepared in a variety of ways,including roasting, braising, and broiling.Ducklings are best roasted in the oven ona rack so that as much fat as possible candrip away from the bird.  A citrus saucenicely complements a duck’s flavor; accord-ingly, the dish called duck à l’orange is oneof the most popular ways to eat this bird. 
Allow about 1 to 1 1/2 pounds of raw
bone-in duck per person.  This will yield 3to 4 ounces of fully cooked duck.  (Onepound of boneless raw meat, when cooked,will serve 3 people.)
Game Birds
Game birds is a broad category that includesany wild bird hunted and eaten as food.These birds include the following:294 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
of the highest-fat types of poultry.  The fat
(mainly found within and beneath the skin)
helps keep the duck buoyant.  Duck is also
rich in protein.  It is an excellent source ofriboflavin, niacin, and phosphorus and isa good source of iron, zinc, and thiamin.Duck’s reputation as scrawny may be unde-served, however.  They do have a largeskeleton and thus a relatively high propor-tion of bone.  But specialty breeds, such asMuscovy ducks, have increased breast sizefor more meat.  The USDA grades duckquality with classifications A, B, and C,similar to other poultry. 
The majority of ducks are really duck-
lings, 6 to 8 weeks old.  Broilers and fryersare less than 8 weeks old.  Roasters are birdsthat are slaughtered when they are no morethan 16 weeks old.  Domestic ducks can
Peking duck — a Chinese delicacy in which the duck is roasted
until the skin is very crisp.  Small slices are served with
mandarin pancakes, scallions, and hoisin sauce.High-Protein Foods 295
Goose is federally inspected for whole-
someness.  Grading is similar to that of
other poultry.  One pound of boneless
goose will serve 3 people.  Each serving isabout 3 to 4 ounces.
During the holidays, it may be possible
to find fresh goose in stores.  At other timesof the year, it is usually sold after it has beenfrozen. 
Because geese have so much fat, they
are best roasted.  Piercing the skin whileroasting will allow fat to escape, reducingthe fat content of the bird that is eaten.Monitor the bird closely, however.  Thelarge amount of fat that cooks from a goosecan smoke and catch fire.  Larger, olderbirds are tougher and should be cooked(after the skin and fat are removed) with amoist-heat method, such as braising.
Servin g Suggestions
Like duck, cooked goose benefits frombeing served with a tart fruit sauce, whichhelps offset any fatty taste.  Roast goose isoften served surrounded by sweet potatoes.A salad featuring sliced oranges and onionscomplements the flavor of the goose andthe sweet potatoes nicely. kraut.  Small birds may
be stuffed with a few
green olives and garlic. 
Goose
Geese, those graceful,
large birds with their
long necks, large beaks,and signature cry, havelong been a favorite tar-get for hunters.  Onereason is that the birds,which often weighabout 25 pounds, provide a lot of meat.  Inaddition, their flesh is tender and flavor-ful.  Goose has long been a traditional hol-iday dish and remains a popular dinner inEngland and northern and central Europe.
Geese have not achieved the same pop-
ularity in the United States.  This may actu-ally be an advantage because geese are oneof the fattiest types of poultry.  Up to halfthe calories in a serving of goose are derivedfrom fat.  There are about 13 grams of fatin a skinless 3 1/2-ounce serving and up to22 grams for a serving with the skin on.
Geese are often advertised at holidays in
the United States, but they are typically avail-able frozen all year.  Popular products madefrom goose include smoked goose breast,goose liver pâté, and goose liver sausage.
Preparation Tips
A goose should be plump and have a goodfatty layer, skin that is clean and unblem-ished, and pinkish or light-red flesh.  Afrozen bird’s packaging should be tight andunbroken.  The goose should be thawed inthe refrigerator, a process that can take upto 2 days, depending on the size of the bird.The goose should not be refrozen once ithas been thawed, a general rule with allfrozen products. • Large birds such as wild turkey and
goose
• Medium-sized birds, including pheas-
ant, guinea fowl, and wild duck• Small birds, such as grouse, hazel hen,lark, mud hen, partridge, pigeon, and quail
Game birds that have domestic coun-
terparts, such as turkey and duck, canprovide an overwhelming taste if you havegrown used to the supermarket variety.However, these birds are usually leaner thanmass-market birds and even leaner thanfarm-raised “wild” game.  If you are fortu-nate to have a hunter in the family, you mayhave good access to game birds.  For mostpeople, however, finding game birds will bedifficult, although specialty stores may be ofhelp.  Sometimes, game birds are sold frozen,and smaller birds may be sold canned.
Preparation Tips
When buying game birds, avoid those withan “off” odor.  If you are preparing birds youhave hunted yourself, check with a local hunt-ing organization or gaming officer, becausepreparation tips differ from region to regionaccording to weather conditions.  Becausewild birds can be the leanest of any poultry,they may benefit from marinating.  Theyusually are also basted during roasting.  Olderbirds are best cooked with slow, moist heatsuch as braising or used in soups or stews.
Do not overcook game birds.  Test for
doneness by plunging a fork into the fleshi-
est part of the thigh and by using a meatthermometer.  For light-fleshed birds, thejuices should run clear.  For dark-fleshedbirds, the juices should be light pink.
Servin g Suggestions
Game birds can be used in place of tradi-tional poultry in many dishes.  In mealswith game birds as the main course, atraditional side dish is potatoes or sauer-
Domestic geese296 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Roasted turkeyT urkey
Once, turkey was for Thanksgiving and
Christmas only.  In fact, 90 percent of allturkeys were sold during November andDecember.  It all started when wild turkeywas served as part of a feast of thanksgiv-ing in 1621, and the tradition of turkey onthe Thanksgiving table endures.
Americans now embrace the turkey for
more than just special-occasion dining.Today, turkey is sold in supermarkets inparts, just like chicken, for ease of use.Breeders also have created smaller versionsof turkey.  Served whole, these new birdscan weigh in at 5 to 8 pounds instead ofthe standard sizes, which can be 20 or sopounds at holiday time.
T urkey is very similar to chicken in
many regards, both nutritionally and withrespect to USDA grading and storagerequirements.  The meat is high in protein,niacin, and vitamin B
6.  It also provides a
good source of phosphorus and zinc.  Likechicken, turkey is a low-fat poultry choice,containing about 5 grams of fat per serv-ing after roasting and removing the skin.
T urkeys are available in supermarkets
year-round.  The skin on fresh turkeyshould be off-white to cream-colored andthe meat should be pink.  Self-basting
turkeys have butter or vegetable oil injectedunder their skin to increase their flavor andmoistness, cutting down on the possibilityof an overly dry dinner.  T urkeys also areavailable smoked — as whole or breast only— or canned.
Preparation Tips
If you are buying a frozen turkey, make sure
it is rock-hard and free of any cuts or tears
in the protective wrapping.  Then, defrostit using the same methods and precautions
as recommended for chicken.
If you are buying a fresh turkey or fresh
turkey parts, rinse the flesh with cold waterand pat it with paper towels before cooking.For thawing, which is always done in therefrigerator, allow about 1 day for every 5pounds of turkey.
Check to make sure you have removed
the giblets, heart, or other organs, which
may be packaged in the breast cavity.  Keepand cook the giblets separate from theturkey.  Regardless of when you cook theturkey, the giblets should be cooked orfrozen within 24 hours.Servin g Suggestions
Although turkey is traditionally stuffedand roasted, it can be cooked in severalways.  Parts such as breasts, legs, and cutlets
can be prepared in the same way as a favorite
chicken recipe.  Cooked and smoked
turkey also goes well in cold salads andsandwiches.
If you are preparing the traditional
turkey meal, estimate 3 hours for anunstuffed turkey of 8 to 12 pounds and 41/2 hours for an unstuffed turkey of 18 to24 pounds.  Use a food thermometer.T urkey breasts should be cooked to 170°Fahrenheit, and drumsticks, thighs, andwings to 180° Fahrenheit.  To ensure
uniform cooking and safety, cook stuffing
outside the bird.  If it is cooked inside theturkey, the center of the stuffing must reach165° Fahrenheit.
Eggs
In addition to being a popular breakfastfood, eggs are a symbol of beginnings.Primitive humans recognized the egg as thebeginning of life, and it became a symbol of
spring and fertility.
Eggs have four main parts:
Shell — As the name suggests, this is
the fragile and porous outer covering.  Theshell is made mostly of minerals — calciumcarbonate, magnesium carbonate, andcalcium phosphate.
Shell membranes — These are layers
of protein fibers that stick to the shell.  They
provide additional protection for the egg’sinsides, preventing mold and bacteria from
getting in, for example.
Albumen — This is the white of the
egg.  It is almost all protein and water.
Yolk — The yellow bull’s eye of the egg,
the yolk is made of a substance called“vitellus.”  It can be a pale yellow or darkyellow.  About 30 percent of the yolk is fat,and about 16 percent is protein.  Theremainder is made up of solids.
There is no nutritional difference
between brown and white eggs.
EGGPRODUCTS
Table-ready pasteurized liquid eggs
are found in the refrigerated section
of the supermarket.  The white andyolk of the eggs are mixed, then
pasteurized at a temperature high
enough to kill any bacteria withoutcooking the eggs.  They can berefrigerated unopened for up to 12weeks from the pack date.  They canbe used like eggs already scrambled.Pasteurized eggs in their shells arealso now available.
Egg substitutes are a blend of egg
whites and other ingredients such asfood starch, corn oil, skim-milkpowder, tofu, artificial coloring, andvarious additives.  Because they arealmost all protein, egg substitutescan become rubbery if overcooked. High-Protein Foods 297
Eggs provide an inexpensive source of
high-quality protein, vitamins, and min-
erals, including vitamins A and B12, folic
acid, and phosphorus.  They are an excel-lent source of riboflavin.  The egg is alsosaid to be a complete protein, because itcontains a complete count of essentialamino acids.  The white supplies more thanhalf the protein in an egg.  The yolk sup-plies the fat, along with the remainingprotein,  and most of the calories. 
Eggs are also graded and are classified by
both size and quality.  The best are gradeAA or A, both of which are related to thelevel of freshness and the quality of the shellat marking.  Most recipes are based on largeeggs.  Nutritionally, there’s no differencebetween brown eggs and white eggs.Different colored eggs come from differentvarieties of hens.
The most common egg used for food
today is the chicken’s egg, although eggsfrom other fowl can be bought in specialtystores.
Preparation Tips
When selecting eggs, check the containerfor any cracked or broken eggs and elimi-nate them from the carton.  Place the carton
in the refrigerator for up to 5 weeks.  Donot place eggs in the designated egg holdersin the door of older refrigerators.  It is toowarm for the eggs there because they get ablast of hot air each time the door isopened.  The egg carton helps keep eggsfrom absorbing odors from other foods andhelps keep the eggs fresh.
When adding eggs to a mixing bowl,
break the egg in a separate dish to makesure the egg is not rotten.
Servin g Suggestions
Eggs serve many purposes in cooking andpreparing food, including a leavening agentin baked goods, a base for mayonnaise, anda thickener in sauces and custards.
Served alone, eggs can be poached,
boiled (soft or hard), fried, scrambled, ormade into an omelet.  From a safety stand-point, it is recommended that both theyolk and the white be cooked until firm.Because they are made mostly of water andprotein, eggs are best cooked over low heat.Meat 
Meat is the general term for any muscle
from any animal.  However, most peoplethink of meat as meaning “red meat.”  Thissection describes red meats, including thecommon American staples of beef, pork,
lamb, and veal.  Also included are ostrich,
rabbit, buffalo, and game meats.  Rabbit,buffalo, and game meats were once com-mon to the American menu but are noweaten much less often.  The same is true ofso-called variety meats — brain, heart,kidney, liver, tripe, and tongue.  WhereasAmericans once needed to make use ofevery part of a slaughtered animal, theabundance of food, along with changingtastes and attitudes, has made variety meatsonly rare additions to meals.
Meat is composed of three basic mate-
rials: water, protein, and fat.  On average,lean muscle tissue is about 75 percent water,18 percent protein, and 3 percent fat.  Theeventual texture and taste of the cookedmeat depend on the amount of fat andwater in the tissue and on the kinds of298 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
proteins.  In general, the most tender cuts
of meat have more fat and less fibrous
muscle.  Tougher tissue from older animals
often has more flavor.  Both limitations canbe overcome by using the proper cookingmethods.
Roughly 50 percent of the protein in
meat comes from fibers that contract themuscle and 30 percent from oxygen-storingpigments called myoglobin and variousenzymes.  The remaining 20 percent comesfrom connective tissues that hold the musclestogether.
Nutrition
From a nutritional point of view, becausethe composition of most animals is similarto that of humans, animal tissues supplyus with complete proteins.  More simply,the protein from animals is similar to thatproduced in our own bodies.  Thus, itcontains the full count of essential aminoacids.  (See Chapter 2, Dietary Protein andBody Protein, page 24.)
Red meat is an important source of min-
erals, including iron, phosphorus, zinc, andcopper, and vitamins, including B vitamins
and vitamin A (see the Appendix:  Dietary
Reference Intakes, page 454).  However,
there are some  nutritional trade-offs to bemade.  Red meat can be the main source offat — particularly saturated fat — andcholesterol in the American diet.  Both havebeen linked by numerous studies to cardio-vascular disease.  Too much fat and choles-terol can contribute to the buildup of plaquein arteries, which in turn increases the risk ofheart attack and stroke.  In addition, dietshigh in fat have been linked to some types ofcancer, particularly colon cancer. 
Americans have traditionally enjoyed an
abundance of meat in their diets comparedwith other populations, and tastes in meatcontinue to evolve.  As more people havebecome aware of the risks of eating too muchred meat, consumption of beef has declined.Recently, it has started to increase again andremains top on the consumption list.  Animportant reason is that as health concernshave grown, both the meat industry and
grocers have responded by introducing leaner
cuts of meat and lower-fat options, such aslean hamburger.  Poultry consumption has
grown significantly since the 1970s.
Selection
Many factors influence how tender andtasty meat will be after cooking.  Thesefactors include:• The type of muscle (or cut)• The amount of fat and connective tissuein the meat• The age of the cut• The manner of preparation
Cuts from more exercised muscles (leg,
hip, and shoulder) are tougher than thosefrom the center of the animal — the rib,loin, or breast.
Fresher meats are generally tougher than
aged meats.  Aging causes meats to go
BEEFCUTS:
WHERE THEYCOMEFROM
Section Names of cuts
Rib: Rib roast, rib steak, rib eye, back ribs
Short Loin*: Tip loin, T-bone, porterhouse, tenderloin
Sirloin*: Top sirloin, sirloin, Boston sirloin
Round*: Round steak, top round, bottom round, eye of round, tip steak,
rump roast
Flank*: Flank steak
Plate: Skirt steak
Chuck: Chuck roast, arm pot roast, shoulder pot roast, short ribs
*Cuts that are lower in fat.through “rigor.”  With time, the muscles
relax and increase in acidity — a natural
way to tenderize meat — and muscle pro-
teins increase their water-holding ability,which enhances juiciness.
Aging is a process that relaxes the tissues,
making the beef easier to chew and enjoy.The original process of aging, now calleddry-aging, demanded that a carcass hang ina cooler for 3 weeks or more.  The surfacewould dry out and be thrown away.  Theremaining beef made excellent but expen-sive steaks.  This process is now reserved forsteaks bound for only the best steakhouses.
Less fatty cuts are preferred from a nutri-
tional standpoint.  However, they are lesstender than those with fat marbled throughthe muscle fibers.  “Choice” and “select”grades have less fat and marbling and canbe tougher than the “prime” grade unlessthey are prepared to maximize tenderness.High-Protein Foods 299
illness.  In recent years, Escherichia coli (E.
coli), a potentially deadly bacterium that
can cause severe, bloody diarrhea, hasbecome a concern with red meat, particu-larly ground beef.
Fortunately, proper cooking kills all
microorganisms in meat.  Preventing meatfrom contaminating other foods before cook-ing is important.  Good meat-handling prac-tices include thawing meat in the refrigera-tor, making sure juices from raw meat donot get on other food, and disinfecting cook-ing and preparation surfaces after handlingraw meat.  For more information aboutcooking meat and other protein foods prop-erly, see Chapter 5, Cooking It Safe, page149, and Food Safety, page 148.
The following pages contain more
specific information on different typesof meat and how to include them in ahealthful diet.
Beef
Beef comes from the adult bovine, includ-ing cows (females that have had a calf),
steers (males castrated when very young),
heifers (females that have not been bred),and bulls younger than 2 years.  Beef fromStora ge
Meat is perishable, but there are ways to
maximize its shelf life.  To do so, minimize
its exposure to light, oxygen, enzymes, andmicroorganisms.  All of these can hastenthe breakdown of muscle tissue and thedecay process.
Keep meat securely wrapped — preferably
with opaque butcher’s paper, available at gro-cery stores — and refrigerated at less than 40°Fahrenheit in a dark place.  Bacteria and moldsthrive in higher temperatures and humidity.Refrigerating meat inhibits the growth of thesemicroorganisms, and freezing meat at 0°Fahrenheit or below actually halts their growth.Meat wrapped in butcher’s paper can be storedin the freezer for up to 12 months. 
Safety Issues
Any kind of meat can harbor harmfulmicroorganisms that can cause food-borneQUICK TIP
Freezer burn (the discoloration andchange in flavor that meat canacquire after it has been frozen) canbe minimized by wrapping meat astightly as possible with waterproofpackaging.  According to the USDA’sFood Safety and Inspection Service,overwrap the supermarket wrappingwith heavy-duty foil, plastic wrap, a
plastic bag, or freezer paper to ensurethat air is kept out.
IRRADIATED HAMBURGER
Consumers in a growing number of states can now purchase irradiated hamburgerat the supermarket.  So what does “irradiated” mean, and should you buy the meat?
Irradiation is simply the name given to a process that uses radiation or electricity
to kill disease-causing organisms (pathogens) in food.  Food is passed briefly througheither type of energy.  It does not become radioactive.  Instead, the energy kills
most of the pathogens in food.  The food still looks and tastes the same.  By law,
food that is irradiated must have a label that clearly states it has undergone thisprocess.  The symbol is called the radura.  (See Chapter 4, What About IrradiatedFoods? page 91.)
Irradiation has been used for decades to kill pathogens in spices and other foods
and also to sterilize medical materials.  In February 1999, the U.S. governmentcleared the way for irradiated red meat to be made available in stores.  Because redmeat, and beef in particular, can harbor several pathogens, including the potentiallydeadly E. coli bacterium, scientists and experts in food-borne disease have long
advocated irradiation as an important step in making this food group safer.
Irradiation has its critics, who say that the method needs to be researched more.
However, it is endorsed by nearly every major medical organization in the world,including the World Health Organization, the U.S. Centers for Disease Controland Prevention, and the American Medical Association. an animal slaughtered after age 2 years is
generally classified as “well-matured beef.”
Meat from these animals begins to toughen
and becomes more of a purplish red.  Babybeef, in contrast, is from a 7- to 10-month-old calf. 
Of all the animals domesticated for
food, cattle reign supreme.  This animal,once only a beast of burden, became a sourceof meat and milk only after feed fromimproved agricultural practices becameplentiful.
Even though cattle were first introduced
to the New World in the 1500s, beef didnot become popular in the United Statesuntil the Civil War, when other meats andpoultry were in short supply.
After the Civil War, the abundance of
grazing land and emerging transportationsystems in the United States made it easy300 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
have hit the shelves.  The result is that beef is
27 percent leaner than it was 20 years ago. 
When eaten in moderation and pre-
pared with low-fat cooking methods, beefremains a nutritious addition to meals. 
Preparation Tips
When shopping, pick a cut of beef whosetenderness and level of flavor appropriatelyfit the recipe you are using.  In general, themore expensive the cut of meat (rib, loin,breast, filet, sirloin), the greater the flavorand tenderness.  Cheaper cuts (leg, hip,shoulder) may be less tender but are just asflavorful.  They are best prepared with slow,moist-heat cooking, such as boiling, poach-ing, stewing, steaming, or braising.  Any ofthese moist-cooking methods are also bestfor any leaner, tougher cut of beef (leg, hip,shoulder), and slow cooking provides thebest results.
Using a tenderizer also makes tough
cuts more palatable.  Acid ingredients suchas vinegar, yogurt, cider wine, citrus juice,and tomatoes often are used in marinadesbecause they tenderize the meat.  Naturalenzymes such as papaya, figs, and pineapplealso can be used for the same purpose.Cover meat with the marinade and placeit in a non-metallic container in the refrig-erator for 6 to 24 hours.
Aged beef that you might find at your
local supermarket probably has undergonewet-aging.  The carcass is vacuum-packedin plastic bags and then placed in coolersfor a week to a month.  This process ten-derizes the beef, but it does not have thedramatic improvement in flavor that occurswith dry-aging. 
Ground beef contains enough fat (about
15 to 20 percent) to give it flavor and makeit juicy without excess shrinkage.  The mostflavorful hamburgers are made with groundchuck, but that is not the only kind ofto move large amounts of beef throughout
the country.  For years, Americans have been
one of the world’s top consumers of beef.
But in response to concerns about red meat’slink to cardiovascular disease and cancer,consumption has declined significantly.Since 1978, beef consumption has dropped28 percent, whereas poultry and pork con-sumption has grown rapidly.  Beef producershave launched several programs to provideleaner beef products.  The industry hasdeveloped leaner beef breeds, let the animalsforage from grasslands instead of grain lots,and developed economic incentives for pro-ducing leaner cattle.
Retailers also have reduced the average
thickness of fat around the edge of steaks androasts from 3/4 inch to 1/10 inch, and some-times no external fat is present at all.  In addi-tion, low-fat ground beef and other meats
All meat sold in the United Statesmust be inspected for wholesomenessby the government, usually by theUSDA nationwide team of meatinspectors.  Many people are familiarwith this agency’s stamp of inspection,which is placed on the outside of 
the carcass.
The USDA also grades meat,
although this is a voluntary process.Grading meat essentially means usingcategories to give consumers anestimation of quality.  Beef cuts are judged by the palatabilitycharacteristics of the meat.  Inspectorslook at the marbling (flecks of fat in the meat that give it flavor) and the firmness.  The USDA grades for beef, from best quality to lowestquality, are as follows: • Prime
• Choice• Select• Standard• Commercial• Utility• Cutter• Canner
The cuts given the highest grade
also have the most marbling.  To help
make leaner, more healthful cutsappealing to consumers, the USDAcame up with the term “select” forgood quality cuts of meat that werelower in fat.  Previously, the agencyhad used the term “good.” 
Most consumers will not find the
five lowest-quality grades of beef instores.  These generally are used only forsausages and in cured and canned meats.
MAKING THE GRADEhamburger available.  The leanest (around
11 percent fat) and most expensive of the
ground meats are ground round and ground
sirloin.  New processing of ground meat isnow making available even leaner choices(around 5 percent fat).  The leaner choicesare ideal for calorie and fat watchers, butthey have to be cooked carefully to avoidtheir becoming too dry.
For more flavorful cuts of meat, dry-
heat cooking — roasting, baking, broiling,or grilling — is more common.  T ry thesemethods with steaks, tenderloins, and filets.To reduce the fat content of beef sauces orsoups, refrigerate them and gently spoonoff the fat layer that forms on the surface.
Servin g Suggestions
Although beef can be part of a healthfuldiet, the key is to think of it as a side dishand not the main entrée.  Dishes such assirloin kabobs fulfill the craving for beefwithout the need to eat a lot of it.  Stir-fry-ing, in which thin strips or chunks of beefare combined with large quantities of veg-
etables, is also an excellent way to have beef
play a supporting role at mealtime.  Stewsand casseroles with vegetable-based saucesalso offer this advantage.
Another simple option is to cut down
on the amount of ground beef called for ina recipe.  Reducing the amount of groundbeef by half cuts the calories, fat, and cho-lesterol by half.
Buffalo
Bison, the shaggy, humped member of thecattle family, is the scientific name for whatwe generally refer to as American buffalo.Buffalo once roamed the West in greatherds.  Westward expansion and the intro-duction of cattle contributed to the declineof the roaming herds, but a new popula-High-Protein Foods 301
GROUND BEEFSUBSTITUTES ,ANDHOWTHEYSTACK UP
Three ounces Calories Fat ( grams) Saturated fat Cholesterol
ready-to-eat ( grams) (milli grams)
Hamburger 245 20 7 75
Extra-lean 215 15 5 70
ground beef
Ground turkey 200 11 3 87
(meat and skin)
Ground turkey 120 1 T race 70
(breast only)
Textured soy 95 T race T race 0
protein
Tofu, firm 52 2 T race 0
Tempeh 170 9 3 0
WHATISBEEFALO ?
Beefalo is what its name suggests: 
a cross between buffalo and cattle.The result is a dark red meat that isvery lean and has a flavor that isslightly stronger than that of beef.Most grocery stores do not carrybeefalo. It is available in somespecialty markets.  Although intro-duced some years ago, beefalo hasbeen slow to gain popularity.  At thesame time, demand for ranch-raisedbuffalo is increasing.tion of ranch-raised buffalo is bringing
bison meat back to the American table.
Buffalo is lower in fat than most cuts of
beef and chicken — as well as some fish.  Italso tastes like lean beef and has no gameyflavor.  Because of these characteristics, it isviewed by some food experts as the “gourmetfood of the future.”  Although many ranch-ers and farmers have begun raising buffalo,so far the demand for it is outstripping supply.
Preparation Tips
T rim any excess fat before cooking.  Becausebuffalo meat is so lean, it should be cookedslowly at a low heat.  Otherwise, the meatwill be chewy and flavorless. 
Servin g Suggestions
Grill buffalo steaks at least 6 inches fromthe heat source, basting often.  Cuts ofbuffalo are similar to cuts of beef and canbe substituted in most beef recipes, as longas the meat is not cooked past medium-rare.  Remember, however, that buffalocooks more rapidly than beef because it hasless marbled fat.Lamb
Spanish padres and English pioneers broughtthe first sheep to the United States.  Usingsheep for meat and clothing, the padresexpanded their missions for the next 3 cen-turies.  Today, lamb is produced in every statein the United States, even though the averagecitizen eats only 1 to 2 pounds of lamb a year.
In other countries, lamb is prized for
its hearty flavor.  The American aversion302 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Preparation Tips
Many cuts of lamb are sold with the fat
already trimmed, but on some cuts, such
as the leg or shoulder, thick external fatremains.  Have your butcher remove thislayer, or do it yourself before you are readyto cook the lamb.  Leaving the fat in placewill cause the amount of saturated fat toskyrocket, and the lamb will take on astronger taste that many Americans, unac-customed to lamb, might find displeasing.Lamb fat burns at a much lower tempera-ture than other animal fat, and the lamb isleft with a smoky, fatty aftertaste.
You also need to remove the fell, a mem-
brane that encases the surface fat.  The fellis left on some larger cuts to help trap thenatural juices.  The fell is inedible, and neitherheat nor seasonings can penetrate it.
The cuts you most often find at your
grocery store — leg of lamb, rack of lamb,chops, and loin — can be cooked by roast-ing, broiling, sautéing, or grilling.  But ifyou are planning to serve the lamb rare ormedium-rare, which is recommended, ribchops surpass shoulder chops.  A quick-read thermometer inserted in the thickestportion of the meat should read 145°Fahrenheit (medium-rare).  Chops cut fromthe shoulder are best slowly braised.
The size of a rack of lamb depends on
the kind of sheep.  An American-raisedsheep will have a rack with seven to eightribs, weighing approximately 2 pounds andfeeding three or four people.  A rack froma New Zealand sheep may weigh only 1pound and feed two people. 
Servin g Suggestions
Leg of lamb is a traditional dish at Easter,and lamb and mutton are common ingre-dients in Middle Eastern couscous dishes.Lamb also makes a wonderful meat forkabobs, the best cut being leg meat cut into
difficult to buy in the United States.  Mostlamb available at your local supermarket willbe the more tender spring lamb.  Lamb isleaner, too, because of selective breedingpractices and because the meat is trimmed ofmore excess fat before packaging.
There are five USDA grades for lamb,
based on the proportion of lean meat tofat:  prime, choice, select, utility, and cull.Most of the lamb sold today is choice.
Use color as a guide to purchase lamb.
A general rule is that the color gets darkeras the animal gets older.  For example, babylamb is pale pink, and regular lamb is pink-ish red. 
You also can use the weight of a leg of
lamb to judge its age.  The more a leg weighs,the older the animal was at slaughter.  Alarge leg, nearing 10 pounds, then, will havestrong flavor and tougher flesh.  Muttonlegs are around 12 pounds.to the meat may be because sheep were orig-inally bred for wool first and then con-sumed for meat.  The older lamb resultedin a stringy, tough piece of meat.  Today,animals are bred for only one purpose, andthe meat has a finer consistency and a betterflavor.
To qualify as a lamb, a sheep must be
younger than a year.  However, most lambsare sent to market at 6 months or younger.Baby lamb and spring lamb are both milk-fed and slaughtered before they are weaned.Regular lamb is slaughtered before it reaches12 months of age.  Lambs between 12 and24 months are yearlings.
Mutton, the meat of sheep more than 2
years old, has a much stronger flavor andless tender flesh.  Mutton has gained a rep-utation among Americans as inedible, butwith proper slow-cooking methods, that rep-utation is unwarranted.  Even so, mutton is
A serving of meat is about 
3 ounces — about the size of one lamb chop.High-Protein Foods 303
Servin g Suggestions
Rub olive oil on ostrich before grilling, then
season with herbs or a touch of salt and
pepper.  Substitute ostrich in any recipecalling for lean beef or venison.
Pork
Pork was popular early in American historybecause pigs offered large litters of offspring
and meat that could be preserved by smok-
ing and pickling for long winter months.Pigs also would eat anything available.  Atypical farmer owned four or five hogs.  Anearly governor of Virginia was one of thefirst to introduce swine to the New World.The state is famous for the quality of hamsand other pork products produced there.
Although pork generally refers to swine
younger than 1 year, most pork today isslaughtered at a younger age (6 to 9 months)to produce meat that is more tender and mild-flavored.  The diet of a hog before slaughterhas changed.  What the colonists oncethought was a positive — that a pig would
eat anything — caused trichinosis, a food-borne disease that was once acquired almostexclusively from undercooked pork. Today’shogs are fed a die t of grain, proteins, vitamins,
and minerals, and trichinosis is thus rare.1-inch cubes.  Complementary seasoningsinclude garlic, mustard, basil, mint, rose-mary, and sage.
Lamb fat solidifies once the meat cools,
so the meat should be served on warmplates.  Lamb stew meat usually is cut fromthe shoulder, neck, breast, or leg (this mightalso be called a lamb shank).  Use it in placeof beef, pork, or veal in any slow-cookedstew or braised meat recipe.  Use groundlamb as you would use ground beef.
The less tender cuts of lamb (shoulder,
breast, shank) are best marinated.
Ostrich
With origins in Africa and parts of south-west Asia, the ostrich is a huge, flightless
bird that can weigh up to 250 pounds and
reach up to 7 feet in height.  For centuriesits meat and eggs were sought, but nowostrich can be raised like other forms oflivestock.
Although still more exotic than a rib
eye steak, ostrich meat is showing up onmore and more restaurant menus, a directcorrelation to the hundreds of ostrich ranchesnow in the United States.  Some specialtymeat markets may carry, or will specialorder, ostrich meat.  The meat is deep redand looks like very lean beef.  Ostrich is lowin saturated fat and has very little choles-terol.  Because ostrich is a bird, it technicallyis classified as poultry, but it tastes morelike venison and is similar to lean beef inits color and texture.
Preparation Tips
The best ways to cook ostrich are bysautéing (pan frying or cooking) and quickgrilling.  Because it is such a lean meat, iteasily becomes dry if overcooked.  The bestcuts of ostrich are the fan fillet, inside strip,tenderloin, and oyster.Until recently, pigs were bred to be hefty
and fat, but pork has been gradually trans-formed by concerted breeding efforts toproduce leaner meat.  In general, today’shogs provide meat that is lower in caloriesand higher in protein than just 10 yearsago.  On average, pork is 31 percent lowerin fat and 14 percent lower in calories thanit was in 1983.  However, not all pork cutsare lean, depending on the part of the pig
used.  For example, bacon still has 14 grams
of fat per ounce (about 4 slices), but extra-lean cured ham may have less than 2 gramsof fat per ounce.
Pork is an extraordinarily versatile meat.
Pork comes to market in two basic forms:fresh and smoked.  Only about a third of allpork is sold as fresh pork.  The majority iscured, smoked, or processed into items suchas bologna and hot dogs.  The rump and hindlegs of the pig are usually cured and smokedas hams.  The same is true of the belly, or whatbecomes bacon after curing and smoking. 
Most fresh pork comes from the pork
loin and the shoulder, an area of the animalthat is also known as “Boston butt.”  This iscut into chops, steaks, roasts, cubes, andstrips.  The loin section has been so popular,hogs have been bred with one more rib
(compared with lamb, beef, or veal) to
PORKCUTS:  W HERE THEYCOMEFROM
Section Names of cuts
Shoulder butt: Cubed steak, blade steak, boneless and bone-in blade (Boston)
roast, ground pork
Loin: Sirloin, rib chop, loin chop, country-style ribs, back ribs, tenderloin, Canadian bacon, center rib roast
Leg: Center ham slice, boneless ham, ham shank, leg cutlets
Side (belly): Spareribs, slab bacon, sliced bacon
Picnic shoulder: Arm picnic, arm roast, arm steak, ground pork, pork hocks304 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Servin g Suggestions
Marinades made from citrus fruits add a
nice accompanying flavor to pork.  The
acid from the fruit also helps tenderize themeat.  Pork holds up under some strongsauces, such as barbecue sauce.  Pork canbe sliced into medallions and added to stir-fry dishes or served with steamed vegetablesfor an elegant entrée.  Sweeter foods, suchas applesauce or sweet-and-sour sauces, alsocomplement the flavor of fresh pork.
Ham
Ham comes from the rump and hind legsections of the hog and is available in eitherfresh or cured forms.  Fresh ham commonlyis roasted, but cured ham, which is oftenready-to-eat, can be quickly baked, pan-fried, or microwaved. 
The meat is usually cured in one of three
ways:  dry salt curing, brine curing, or brineinjection curing.  For dry curing, the surfaceof the ham is heavily salted, and then theham is stored to allow the salt to saturate themeat.  In brine curing, the ham is immersedin a sweet, seasoned brine.  If sugar is addedto the curing mix, the ham may be labeledsugar-cured.  Most mass producers of hamuse the injection-curing method, in whichthe brine is injected directly into the ham,shortening the curing process.
After curing, a ham may be smoked to
add flavor and aging capability.  Gourmethams are heavily smoked for a month or more.A wide selection of specially cured hams arealso imported from many European coun-tries, including German Westphalian ham,which is smoked with juniper berry andbeechwood.  Other specialty hams includeEnglish York ham and French Bayonne.
The smoked flavor will vary depend-
ing on the type of wood used (usually hick-ory or maple) and the addition of unusualingredients such as juniper berries and sage.Preparation Tips
Fresh pork was once cooked to an internal
temperature of 170° to 185° Fahrenheit to
avoid trichinosis.  But with the new lean-er pork, such a temperature is no longernecessary, nor is it advised.  Cooking meatto this temperature will dry out the pork,making it chewy and hard to cut.  Someolder cookbooks on your shelf still mayadvise this higher temperature as a guide,but a better internal temperature is 160°to 170° Fahrenheit, which will producejuicy, tender meat.  At this temperature,the inside of a fresh pork cut may still bepinkish.  This tinge of color is nothing toworry about as long as the internal tem-perature has reached at least 160°.  Thattemperature destroys any organisms thatcould cause trichinosis. 
Fresh cuts of pork can be prepared with
dry-heat cooking methods of grilling, broil-ing, and roasting, but marinating or bastingmay be necessary to keep the meat tender.
Fresh pork cooked to an internal
temperature of 160° Fahrenheitwill be juicy, tender — and safe.increase the loin’s length (see sidebar:  Pork
Cuts: Where They Come From, page 303).
Pork is a good source of thiamin, a B
vitamin humans need to convert carbohy-drates into energy.  It is also a good sourceof zinc.  The following pages provide anoverview of the different types of pork.
Fresh Pork 
Some of the more popular fresh pork cutsare pork chops, pork loin, and pork ribs.There are three types of pork ribs.  Spareribsare from the breast and rib sections andprovide little meat.  Back ribs, or baby-backribs, are cut from the loin, so they havemore meat.  Country-style ribs, from theshoulder end of the loin, have the mostmeat, but not necessarily the most flavor.
When purchasing fresh pork, look for
meat that is pale-pink with a small amountof marbling and white (not yellow) fat.  Thedarker the pink flesh, the older the animal.away.  Microwaving is another option for
reducing the fat in bacon.  Put paper towels
under and over the bacon to absorb the fat
as the bacon is cooked.
Servin g Suggestions
Bacon is too fatty and high in salt for every-day use.  On occasions when it is eaten,reduce the amount of bacon strips used inthe food.  Or, add flavor without using a lotof bacon by using bacon bits.  Even better,try imitation bacon bits, which are notmade from bacon at all but from a vegetableprotein.  The result is bacon flavor with-out bacon’s nutritional drawbacks. 
Rabbit and Hare
Rabbit meat is often compared to chicken,but it has a sweeter, milder taste. Rabbit isalso a little leaner than chicken.  Three ouncesof roasted rabbit has 7 grams of fat, whereasthe dark meat of a roasted chicken has 8 gramsand the white meat 3 grams, skin removed.
Rabbit meat for the table can be from
either wild or domesticated animals.  Farm-bred rabbits are somewhat fatter and blanderin flavor than their free-roaming counter-parts.  They also have a fine-textured fleshthat is almost all white meat, unlike theirwilder counterparts.  A mature rabbitweighs between 3 and 5 pounds, an amountthat will serve four people.
More than double the size of its rabbit
relative, the hare can weigh as much as 12 to 14pounds.  Hares have longer ears than rabbits,a notched lip, and powerful hind legs.Whether wild or domesticated, hares have adarker flesh and heartier flavor than rabbits. 
Preparation Tips
Fresh and frozen rabbit is available dressedeither whole or cut into pieces.  Young rabbitsweigh around 2 pounds and should have aOnce curing and smoking are completed,
gourmet hams are usually aged to develop
flavors further, sometimes for up to 2 years. 
Hams are sold in several forms, includ-
ing boneless (with the hip, thigh, and shankbones removed), partially boned (with thehip or shank bones removed), and bone-in.  Most producers of gourmet ham leavesome bone in to enhance the flavor duringcooking.  Canned hams may be a wholepiece of boneless meat or they may becreated from bits and pieces of meat andheld together with a gelatin mixture. 
Preparation Tips
A fresh or cured ham should look firm andhave a white layer of fat and pink to rose-colored flesh.  Country-style hams (dry-cured hams) such as Smithfield hams arecoated with salt, so they should be scrubbedwith a stiff brush, soaked in cold water for48 hours, and then scrubbed again. 
Labels on hams should be checked for
cooking and serving instructions, becausehams are available fully cooked, partiallycooked, or uncooked.  Fully cooked hams,sometimes labeled “heat-and-serve”or“ready-to-eat,” do not require additionalcooking.
Servin g Suggestions
Keep in mind that the curing process forham makes it high in sodium.  Personsfollowing a low-sodium diet may want tosave ham for special occasions and mini-mize how much is eaten.  Those whose dietscan tolerate a high-sodium food can addlean or extra-lean ham to a wide variety ofdishes.  Ham goes particularly well withpasta and rice dishes and in combinationwith vegetables.  Ham can be baked, grilled,sautéed, broiled, or simmered.  T ry addinglean or extra-lean ham to make a heartysalad that serves as the centerpiece of a meal.High-Protein Foods 305
Bacon
Bacon is meat from the side of a hog —
the pork belly — that is cured and smoked.Fat imparts the crispness and flavor tobacon and is usually half to two-thirds ofthe total weight, making it more of a fatselection than a meat selection.  Bacon isalso high in sodium and contains nitratesand nitrites, which are chemical preserva-tives that have been shown to cause cancerin animals.  The amount in bacon is notgreat, and therefore it is not clear that theyare harmful in the amounts normally con-sumed.  For all of these reasons, the regularinclusion of bacon at breakfast should bereconsidered.
Compared with American bacon,
Canadian bacon is more like ham, becauseit comes from the tender eye of the porkloin.  It is more expensive than regular bacon,but it is leaner and precooked (less shrink-age), providing more servings per pound. 
Sliced bacon comes in thin slices (about
35 strips per pound), regular slices (16 to 20
strips per pound), or thick slices (12 to 16strips per pound).  Canned bacon is popular
with campers because it is precooked andneeds no refrigeration.
Bacon bits are crisp pieces of bacon that
are preserved and dried.  They should bestored in the refrigerator.  (A popular imi-tation made from vegetable protein may bekept at room temperature.)  Bacon grease,the fat rendered from cooked bacon, issometimes used as a cooking fat in regionaldishes, as are salt pork (salt-cured cuts fromthe sides and belly of the pig) and fatback(fat from the pig’s back, that can be saltedand made into “cracklings” or unsalted andmade into lard). 
Preparation Tips
You can reduce the fat in bacon by broil-ing it on a rack, allowing excess fat to driplight-colored flesh.  They are considered
the most tender.  When cooking aged orwild rabbit, use moist heat to cook it (suchas stewing, braising, or marinating) to ten-derize and whiten the meat.  Wild hare,
also called jackrabbit and snowshoe rabbit,
generally needs marinating to tenderize itbefore cooking.  This process also whitensthe meat.  Young animals (1 year or less)can usually be roasted, but older animalsare best cooked with moist-heat methods,such as slow cooking in a casserole or stew.
Servin g Suggestions
In general, recipes for rabbit, especially youngrabbit, are similar to those for chicken.French and Italian recipes use rabbit withexcellent results.  Rabbit is traditionallyserved in sauces to minimize a flavor thatcan be intense.306 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Preparation Tips
Although veal is supposed to be leaner and
more tender than beef, not all veal is made
equally, and not all cuts carry the same levelof quality.
If you are interested in preparing veal,
your first step should be to locate a super-market or butcher who carries veal on a reg-ular basis.  Because Americans tend to eatveal in restaurants, the retail market is muchsmaller than beef’s beefy share.  You mayneed to order the cut of veal you want andthe amount you need in advance.
The best cuts are from the rib and the
loin of the calf.  They are the most tenderand the most expensive and can be boughtas ribs, chops, or scallops.
Veal scallops have many names —
scallopini, cutlets, schnitzel.  However, allthese words describe thinly cut veal slices.The best scallops come from the top round,cut against the muscle fibers.  Cuttingagainst the grain ensures the thin scallopswill not buckle when they hit the heatedpan.
If you are buying scallops, look for a
smooth surface, which indicates they havebeen cut properly.  Storage of veal is similarto that of beef.
Servin g Suggestions
Veal scallops can be used to make veal scal-lopini.  Scallops are dredged in flour andlightly cooked in oil or butter for 1 to 2minutes.  Veal roast can be cooked witheither low or high heat, but high heat worksbetter with more expensive cuts of meat.For cuts from the shoulder, breast, or leg,roasting at a lower heat with rubbing ofadded fat creates a more tender entrée.
Tougher cuts of veal from the lower leg
and shoulder can be braised for the Italiandish osso buco.  The name means “bonewith a hole.”  The bone is a marrow-filledVeal
Credit the American love of Italian andFrench food to the increase in veal appre-
ciation.  Dishes such as veal scallopini andgrilled veal chops introduced the meat topalates that were much more aware of theheavier, heartier taste of beef.
The name veal is derived from the Latin
vitellus , which means calf.  The meat is
garnered from a young calf, usually 1 to 3months old, that has been fed only milk.
Milk-fed veal comes from calves up to
12 weeks old that have not been weaned fromtheir mother’s milk, but veal of this quality israre in today’s supermarket.  Shoppers aremore likely to find veal fed a nutritionallybalanced milk or soy-based diet that is for-tified with essential nutrients.  Color is themost important criterion when choosing agood cut of veal.  The flesh should be acreamy white to ivory tone — barely tingedwith grayish pink — and the fat should bewhite and creamy.  The pinker the meat, the
older the animal was at slaughter, and themeat is tougher and stronger-flavored.
If the meat is a reddish tone but still
marked as veal, it may be a calf between 6and 12 months and should more appro-priately be called baby beef.  Or, the calfmay have been allowed to eat grains orgrasses, which also darken the meat.
Animals were once confined to limit
their movement; hence, the meat would bemore tender and pale.  For that reason, theconsumption of veal was a source of con-troversy.  In recent years, veal producershave attempted to make their modes of pro-
duction more humane.
The USDA can grade veal in five different
categories, but it usually does not.  If the vealhas been categorized, it will carry marks of(from highest quality to lowest) prime, choice,good, standard, and utility.  The last threegrades are rarely sold in retail outlets.JUGGED HARE
You might have heard of this classicEnglish dish.  The main ingredient is a hare that has been soaked in amarinade of red wine and juniperberries for a day or more.  The
marinated meat is browned and then
made into a casserole that includesvegetables, seasonings, and stock forbaking. Juices from this mixture arepoured off after cooking and com-bined with cream, blood from thehare that was set aside at butchering,and the hare’s liver, which has beenpulverized.  The strained sauce isserved over the meat and vegetables.Because the dish was historically
served in a crock or jug, the dish hasbeen referred to as “jugged hare.” usually feeds two people.  Brain also may be
added to salads or stuffing or served in soups.
Heart
When the Indians of America hunted bison,the heart went to the warrior who broughthome the beast because this organ wasthought to contain the essence and there-fore the power of the slain animal.
Because heart consists almost entirely
of a hard-working muscle, it tends to betough.  In general, hearts from younganimals are more tender.  Your supermarketmay stock veal, lamb, and pork hearts, butbeef heart is more commonly available.  Theheart is an excellent source of protein, iron,zinc, riboflavin, folic acid, and vitamin B
12
and a good source of niacin.  It has morecholesterol than regular types of meat.However, it has less cholesterol than kidney,liver, or brain.round in the center of the cut that addsflavor and is considered a velvety treat.
Veal chops and medallions are best pre-
pared by pan frying or grilling.  Chopsshould be at least an inch thick, and medal-lions should be about 3/4-inch thick.Otherwise, the veal will dry out.
Because veal is such a lean meat, many
recipes may call for adding fat of some sort:from a health standpoint, a small amountof olive oil is best. Watch closely, becauseveal cooks quickly and it is very easy to over-cook it.
Variety Meats
Variety meats is a category that includesbrain, heart, kidney, liver, and various othermeats.  Because they are the most perish-able parts of the animal, they were tradi-tionally eaten first.  And often, these meatswere the centerpiece of some great feast. 
Many variety meats are too high in fat
and cholesterol for more than an occasionalindulgence, although they are a goodsource of iron and, often, vitamin A andfolic acid.  However, some variety meats,such as calf’s tongue and heart, may beunfairly neglected.  They are a good low-fat source of protein, vitamins, and min-
erals.  They also can be very economical,
yet they are scarce in your local market.You may need to order variety meats froma butcher or ethnic food store.  The fol-lowing is an overview of the main kinds ofvariety meats.
Brain
Brain is very soft and porous and is consid-
ered a delicacy in many parts of the world.
Although eaten far less often in Western
nations, beef, calf, pork, and lamb brains areavailable in many supermarkets.  Calf brainHigh-Protein Foods 307
usually is recommended most often for use
in dishes because of its flavor and texture.
Brain should be a bright pinkish white,
plump, firm, and absolutely fresh.  Brainthat is shriveled and dry should be avoided.It is perishable and should be used the dayof purchase.
Preparation Tips
Brain should be washed well, then blanched.Although they differ in flavor and texture,brains and sweetbreads (see below) are usedinterchangeably in most recipes.
Servin g Suggestions
Brain can be poached, fried, baked, orbroiled, and is sometimes served as “beurrenoir.”  This is a sauce that has a clarifiedbutter base that is heated until dark brown.Brain also can be combined with scrambledeggs for a Southern delicacy.  One brain
Veal picatta When purchasing this organ, choose a
product that appears fresh, and avoid those
that have begun to turn gray.  Lamb and
beef hearts should be reddish brown.  Pigand chicken hearts should be bright red,and calf heart should be light red.
Preparation Tips
T rim fat from the heart and remove veinsand membranes.  Rinse and clean the heartthoroughly.  The heart can be cooked andserved whole or sliced.  Cooking times vary
depending on the method used.  Sliced heartis fried for 5 to 7 minutes.  When braising
this meat, hearts of young animals shouldbe cooked 2 to 3 hours.  Larger hearts mayneed to be braised for 4 to 6 hours.
Servin g Suggestions
Hearts make excellent additions to stews andcasseroles.  Small hearts, such as those fromyoung lambs and pigs, are often stuffed andsautéed.  They also can be roasted.  Typically,small hearts are served one per person.
Kidney
Kidneys typically used for cooking are beef,veal, lamb, and pork.  The shape of thekidney depends on its source.  Beef and vealkidneys are multilobed and elongated.  Incontrast, lamb and pork kidneys have justone lobe that resembles a giant bean.Kidneys from young animals tend to havea more tender texture and more delicateflavor.  In addition, young animals’ kidneysare usually pale.  Those from older animalsare a deep reddish brown.
In selecting kidneys, look for those
that are firm and have a glossy, even colorwithout dry spots.  Kidneys should beused the day they are purchased, or storedloosely wrapped in the refrigerator for upto 1 day. Preparation Tips
Remove the white membrane around thekidney by using a pair of scissors to snipthe membrane from the core.  Then, peelthe membrane back with your fingersand remove any excess fat.  Kidneys may
be soaked in vinegar or lemon water to
reduce the strong odor.  Pork and large beef
kidneys should be soaked in milk or coldsalted water for 2 hours to minimize theirstrong taste. 
Servin g Suggestions
Kidneys are eaten braised, broiled, simmered,or cooked in casseroles, stews, and dishessuch as the well-known British dish beef-steak and kidney pie.  This dish is also com-monly served in areas along the Canadianborder in the United States.  Nearly everycomprehensive cookbook has a recipe forthis meat pastry.  One calf kidney or twolamb kidneys is considered a serving.
Liver
After beef and calf liver, the most commonanimal livers eaten are lamb, pork, poultry,and goose.  Goose and duck livers are usedmainly to produce the famous pâté de foiegras.  Fresh American foie gras must comefrom ducks, but imported foie gras can comefrom either goose or duck.  These birds arespecifically bred with enlarged livers.
An important note is that the liver
processes most substances that enter thebody.  This includes any chemicals that ananimal might be fed or given as a medica-tion.  The older the animal, the more likelyit is that there may be accumulations ofunwanted residues in this organ.  For thisreason, liver from younger animals is gen-erally preferred. 
Fresh liver should have a bright color, a
moist but not slick surface, and a cleansmell.  Loosely wrap it and refrigerate it308 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
immediately.  Liver does not keep for more
than a day. 
Preparation Tips
Liver is encased in a thin membrane, which
toughens in the cooking process and should
be peeled off before cooking.  Be careful notto overcook liver because it toughens quick-ly when overcooked.  One popular solutionis to sauté liver.  Leave the liver a little pinkin the center when you use this method andlet the residual heat finish the job.
Servin g Suggestions
Although liver typically is not considered apopular food, this organ meat can be tasty.It is commonly served with gravy made from
it and onions.  For a more elegant meal,broil or pan cook cubed liver and serve withmustard and boiled new potatoes.  Liveralso can be roasted (at 325° Fahrenheit forabout 15 minutes per pound) and also
served with boiled new potatoes.  Soakingthe liver in cognac for several hours beforecooking adds a rich flavor to roasted liver.
Sausa ge
Born of economic necessity, sausage mak-
ing has now become an art.  When farmersslaughtered their own animals, they wantedto make sure that they used every part of theanimal.  So, the lesser quality cuts and scrapswere ground up and made into sausages.Sausage essentially is any kind of choppedor ground meat that is stuffed into a casing.Most often, pork is the main ingredient insausage, but poultry or fish can be used.
After countless decades of experimen-
tation in ingredients — which include meat,spices, and fillers — sausages are often nowconsidered a delicacy.  They can be differ-ent in taste from one to the next.  Sausagesare fresh (made of raw ground meat andspices), precooked (such as hot dogs orHigh-Protein Foods 309
Liver pâtéHowever, farm-raised animals may have
more fat and be more tender than their wild
counterparts. 
Game animals are categorized as large
game and small game.  Large game animalsinclude deer, elk, moose, caribou, and ante-lope.  Other popular large game animalsinclude wild boar and bear.  Other varietieseaten around the world include camel,elephant, kangaroo, zebra, and wild sheep.The most common small game animal iswild rabbit.  Squirrel is also popular.  Beaver,muskrat, opossum, raccoon, armadillo, andeven porcupine are also eaten.
Preparation Tips
Any game meat found in commercialmarkets is federally inspected.  The skinof a hunted animal should be removedand specific steps for butchering shouldbe followed.  The animal also can be takento a butcher who specializes in game
preparation.
For maximum tenderness, most game
meat should be cooked slowly and not
overdone.  Cooking can be done with moistheat by braising or with dry heat by roasting. 
Meat from older animals can be ten-
derized in a marinade that contains an acidsuch as vinegar to break down tough fibers,oil to add succulence, and wine, herbs, andspices to permeate the meat with flavor toreduce the “gamey” taste.  Meat shouldalways be marinated in the refrigeratorbecause it takes quite long to mellow theflavor and tenderize (3 to 5 days). 
Servin g Suggestions
Roasts and steaks may be served for specialoccasions.  When ground, they may substi-tute for more traditional patties, meat loafs,or casseroles.  Small pieces may be stewed.bologna), or partially dried and fully cured
(such as salami or dried pepperoni).
Preparation Tips 
How you use the sausage depends on the typeyou buy.  Fresh sausages need to be cooked,often by pan frying.  Precooked sausages mayneed no preparation at all, or they can begrilled, broiled, or poached in hot water.
Fresh sausage can be kept for only about
2 days in the refrigerator.  Dried or semi-dried will last 2 to 3 weeks.  Cooked sausagecan be kept for about a week.
Servin g Suggestions
Partially dried and fully cured sausages may beused in sandwiches or cut up for pizza or paella.One thing to keep in mind is that sausages areladen with sodium, calories, and fat.  Reducethe amount of fat in the sausage you eat bydraining the excess fat during cooking or byselecting the reduced-fat and reduced-sodiumvarieties of sausages now available in stores.
Minimize the amount of sausage you
eat by using it as a flavoring in meals insteadof a main course.
Game Meats
Game meat was once classified as wildanimals hunted for human consumption.
However, because many “wild” animals are
now being raised as livestock on farms orhunted in protected environments, thedefinition has changed slightly to includeanimals once hunted in the wild for meat.
The graying of the term also has made
nutritional generalizations difficult.  Becausethe diets and activity levels of domesticatedgame animals are different from those oftheir roaming counterparts, their meat hasa different flavor and is often described ashaving a milder, less gamey taste.  Meatfrom wild animals also may be lower in fatthan meat from farm-raised animals.Fish
Health-conscious Americans are figuring
out what much of the world already knows.When prepared well, seafood tastes good,and it is good for you.  Fish consumptionincreased 3.5 percent in 1998 and 3.7
percent in 1999.
The variety and convenience of fish may
be causing the increase, because marketsacross the country — even those in thelandlocked states — are stocking live shell-fish and fresh fillets from both coasts.  Whatonce seemed intimidating to meat-eatingAmericans can now be cooked with thesame ease as a pork chop or pot roast.
Nutrition
Seafood is a good source of high-qualityprotein, usually with a low number ofcalories.  One 3-ounce serving of most fishor shellfish provides an excellent source ofprotein, at often fewer than 100 to 150310 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
scallops, crab, and lobster, actually have
amounts comparable to those of most fish.
Shellfish are also low in fat.  Most fish have
levels of cholesterol comparable to that ofthe white meat of poultry and of lean, well-trimmed red meat. 
Fish also contain important vitamins
and minerals, especially some of the Bvitamins, iron, potassium, magnesium, andphosphorus.  Saltwater fish supply iodine.Canned salmon, sardines, and herring, withtheir soft bones, which are mostly edible,are also a good source of calcium. 
In general, fish are low in sodium, sim-
ilar to the amount in red meat and poultry.Persons following low-sodium diets shouldlimit their intake of processed salted or driedfish, pickled herring, smoked fish andshellfish, sardines, surimi products, and
anchovies.
Selection
What to look for depends on the type offish being purchased: 
Whole, fresh fish —The criteria for
buying this type of fish boil down to this:
look for the fish that appears to have beenpulled from the water most recently.  Scalesshould be shiny and stuck firmly to theskin.  The flesh should feel firm and shouldnot pull away easily from the bone.  Gillsshould be moist and red, and the eyesshould be shiny and not sunken.  As always,the odor is a telltale sign of fish freshness.The fish should have a mild, fresh smell.The more fishy a fish smells, the less likelyit is fresh.
Fresh fillets and steaks —These, too,
must pass the smell test.  In addition, checkthe flesh to make sure it does not pull awayfrom the bones.  Don’t buy fish that appearsto be discolored or dried out. 
Frozen fish —Avoid dried-out fish.
Packaging should be intact and free of frost.calories for many lean fish and most shell-
fish.  Even oil-rich fish, such as salmon,tuna, and mackerel, generally have fewer
than 225 calories in a 3-ounce portion,
comparable to the calories of lean meats.
The fat in fish is mainly polyunsatu-
rated and monounsaturated rather than sat-urated, as in meat.  Furthermore, fish have
a unique polyunsaturated fatty acid called
omega-3 that is believed to have a beneficialeffect in reducing blood clots, loweringblood cholesterol levels, and minimizingheart disease (see Chapter 3, CoronaryArtery Disease, page 61).  The fish that areparticularly good sources of omega-3 fattyacids are sardines, herring, mackerel,Atlantic bluefish, tuna, salmon, pilchard,butterfish, and pompano.
Most shellfish were once considered
high in cholesterol.  However, new researchhas shown that although shrimp and squidhave high levels of cholesterol, other shell-fish, including clams, mussels, oysters,
Commercial fishing allows consumers 
who are land-locked to enjoy fresh fish.Salted and smoked fish —Avoid fish
with an “off” odor.
Stora ge
Whether the fish you buy is fresh or frozen,
make it the last thing you purchase before
heading home.  If you will be delayed, havethe market pack fresh fish on ice.Immediately refrigerate fresh fish in thecoldest part of your refrigerator (usually thelowest shelf at the back or in the meatkeeper), and use it within a day or two.Freeze your fish quickly to keep cell wallsintact, but thaw the fish gradually so thatfewer juices leak out of cells.  The best wayto defrost fish is overnight in the refrigera-tor.  If you must thaw fish quickly, seal itin a plastic bag and immerse it in cold water,allowing 1 hour to thaw a 1-pound package.You can also microwave frozen fish on the“defrost” setting, stopping when the fish isstill icy but pliable.  Most fish will keep inthe freezer for about 6 months.  Neverrefreeze fish.
Canned fish, such as tuna, salmon, and
sardines, will keep for about a year or less.
However, because you cannot be sure aboutthe conditions in which canned goods havebeen stored in the warehouse, it is best tobuy only what will be used within a fewmonths.
Preparation
Moist-heat cooking methods (poaching,steaming, or stewing) are best-suited forlean fish such as cod, flounder, or sole.  Dry-heat cooking methods such as baking, broil-ing, and grilling are best suited for moderate-to high-fat fish, such as bluefish, butter-fish, catfish, or salmon. En papillote, theFrench technique of cooking fish enclosedin parchment paper or foil, is an elegantway to keep fish moist.  To determinewhether fish is done, evaluate the color andHigh-Protein Foods 311
Safety Issues
Although most seafood that reaches the con-sumer is safe, fish spoilage and contaminationdo occur.  Bacteria, viruses, and other microor-ganisms can contaminate fish.  Without care-
ful handling, these can spread to humans
through undercooked fish or cross-contami-nation, which occurs when surfaces used toprepare fish are not disinfected. 
Like all living organisms, fish can occa-
sionally carry various parasites.  Theseparasites are easily destroyed by normal cook-ing procedures.  In pickled products, suchas pickled herring, the acidity of the vinegarused in pickling, often in combination withsalt, preserves products and destroys para-sites and harmful bacteria.
To prevent food-borne illness, the
USDA advises avoiding raw seafood orlightly marinated raw seafood of any kind.flakiness of the flesh.  Slip a knife into the
fish and pull the flesh aside.  The edges ofthe flesh should be opaque and the centersomewhat translucent.  The flesh shouldjust barely flake.  For large fish, a meat ther-mometer can be used to determine whetherthe fish is cooked thoroughly.  The fleshshould reach 145° Fahrenheit to be con-sidered done.  Fish continue to cook afterthey are removed from heat.  For thatreason, it is often recommended that youstop cooking fish just before it appears to bedone.  Overcooked fish looks dry, falls aparteasily, and does not have many of its naturaljuices left over.
Marinades are an excellent way to add
flavor with little fat to fish.  Make sure thatyou marinate the fish in the refrigerator toprevent harmful microorganisms, if pres-ent, from multiplying.
Fish steak, fillet, and
butterfly fillet312 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
is a medium-sized fish.  It is  usually caught
at weights between 4 and 9 pounds and
measures between 15 and 52 inches.  It has
a firm, white flesh.
Preparation Tips
Cod is a versatile fish and is available freshor canned.  It can be cooked in a variety ofways.  If you poach it, make sure that itdoes not boil.  Instead, simmer it for 8minutes in a bouillon or add it to an alreadyboiling liquid and then remove the panfrom the heat immediately.  Set it aside untilthe fish is cooked (about 15 minutes).  Theroe, or eggs, of the cod are eaten fresh,smoked, or salted.  The oil extracted fromcod livers is an important source of vitaminsA and D.
Servin g Suggestions
Garlic and dill are two seasonings that com-plement this light, flaky fish.  Another popular
dish is cod cakes, which are simply a varia-
tion on the widely available recipe for crabcakes.  Cod also can be cured in lye to makelutefisk, a Scandinavian delicacy popular inthe Midwest for which one acquires a taste.
ROUND AND FLATFISH
The term “fish” includes thousands of different species.  For preparation purposes,it is necessary to know only that they are generally divided into two main groups:round fish and flat fish.
Round fish. As the name suggests, round fish have a plump shape.  Their eyes
are on either side of their head.  Here is the critical part: their backbone runs downthe center.  Because thick fillets lie on either side, round fish are usually used asfillets or steaks.  Examples include salmon, red snapper, and striped bass.
Flat fish. This group’s name also gives away its anatomy.  This fish swims
horizontally and is shaped like a flat, thin disk.  Its eyes are on the top of the head.The backbone is located in the center of the fish.  Fillets do not come from eitherside, as they do in round fish, but from the top and bottom.  Fillets are typically
cut from flat fish, but larger fish may be cut into steaks.  Examples of flatfishinclude flounder, halibut, and sole.ARETHERE HARMFUL CHEMICALS IN FISH?
Because of pollution in oceans, lakes, and rivers, fish may contain harmful chemi-cals such as mercury or polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).  This may be a particular
problem in areas where there are manufacturing plants that burn fossils fuels or, in
the past, have dumped mercury-containing waste into nearby streams and lakes.Fish at the top of the food chain (generally, the bigger types such as shark or sword-fish) may contain higher amounts of mercury or other harmful chemicals becausethey feed on lesser fish and cumulate these substances in their fat and flesh.  Somespecies such as large tuna (typically sold as fresh steaks or sushi) can also containhigher amounts.  Various health agencies have issued advisories on how much fishis safe to eat, particularly for pregnant or nursing women and children.  The Food
and Drug Administration recommends that if you are pregnant or may becomepregnant, you should  avoid shark, swordfish, king mackerel, and tilefish.  If you are considering having a child or are pregnant or nursing, check with yourphysician if your diet includes a lot of fish. 
This advice includes sushi.  It is particularlyimportant for people in high-risk groups,which include older people, pregnantwomen, infants, and persons with liver dis-ease, diabetes, immune disorders, or gas-trointestinal conditions.
Fish are generally a low-fat source of
protein.  Not all fish have equal amountsof fat, however.  Instead, fish are groupedinto three main categories according to theirfat content: lean, moderate-fat, and high-fat.  The next section introduces you to thetypes of fish in each group.
Lean Fish 
Lean fish have less than 2 1/2 percent fat.The flesh of these fish is lightly colored andhas a mild taste.  Commonly availablevarieties of lean fish include cod, flounder,halibut, and perch.
Cod
The cod is a popular saltwater fish thatcomes from the cold, deep waters of theNorth Atlantic and the North Pacificoceans.  The cod has been one of the mostintensely fished species because it is easy topreserve for transport and storage.  It is partof the larger Gadidae family that alsoincludes the haddock, the silver hake, thewhiting, the black pollock, and the tomcod.“Scrod” is a term used to describe small cod(1 to 2 pounds), haddock, or pollock.  CodFlounder
This very common flat fish is found in the
waters off nearly every part of the Americancoastline.  Flounder is actually a large familyof fish.  Sometimes flounder is referred toas sole or turbot, which are members of theflounder family.
Preparation Tips
Flounder can be purchased whole orfilleted and fresh or frozen.  Nearly anytype of cooking method can be used withsuccess.
Servin g Suggestions
Sautéeing flounder in a skillet with a littlesesame oil, ginger, and garlic is a quick andtasty way to cook this versatile fish.  Or,braise the fish with shallots, fish broth, andwhite wine. 
Halibut
One of the largest saltwater flat fish, thehalibut is found in the cold waters of theNorth Atlantic and Pacific oceans.  The fishusually weighs between 10 and 155 pounds.However, some halibut hauled in byfishermen have weighed more than 600pounds.  Halibut is usually available infillets or steaks.  When cooked, it has a firm,white flesh and  a mild flavor.
Preparation Tips
Halibut can be grilled, poached, baked,broiled, or sautéed.  The Atlantic halibut,which is usually sold as steaks, is a bit moreflavorful than the Pacific halibut, which ismore often available as fillets. 
Servin g Suggestions
Light marinades, particularly those madefrom red or white wine, enhance halibut’sflavor without adding fat.High-Protein Foods 313
Moderate-Fat Fish
Moderate-fat fish contain about 6 percent
fat.  Their flesh ranges in color from whiteto beige and their taste from mild to muddy.Common kinds of moderate-fat fish includestriped bass, catfish, swordfish, and tuna.
Striped Bass
The striped bass was once abundant onboth the East and West coasts.  But it hasbecome less common because of overfish-ing and pollution.  Fish farms have becomeone of the primary suppliers of this type offish.
Preparation Tips
Striped bass has a pleasantly sweet flavor.Its sturdy fillets also lend themselves to avariety of cooking methods.  It can bebaked, broiled, or steamed.Perch
Perch is a freshwater fish, although some-times the rockfish, a saltwater fish, isreferred to by this name.  Common typesof perch include the yellow perch and thewalleye, which is usually found in lakes,streams, and rivers of the Great Lakes states.
Preparation Tips
Another versatile fish, perch responds well
to most traditional cooking methods.Sautéed, steamed, baked, broiled, or fried,perch’s light, flaky, mild-tasting fleshresponds well.  One caveat:  perch in gen-eral are very bony fish.
Servin g Suggestions
In some regions of the United States, a wall-
eye sandwich is considered a delicacy.Marinades also enhance perch’s flavor.  Andperch is excellent served baked or steamed. 
An assortment 
of seafoodServin g Suggestions
An increasingly popular and healthful
method to cook this fish is to drizzle a fillet
with a little olive oil, rub it with garlic, andthen grill until done.
Catfish
Long a Southern delicacy, this fish hasbecome popular in all regions of the
country.  Because of that, it is now often
raised on farms instead of being gatheredout of only rivers and lakes. 
Preparation Tips
The fish has a tough skin that must beremoved.  To do this, use a sharp knife andcut the skin just behind the gills.  Pull offthe skin with the fingers or a tweezers.Catfish can often be bought at stores cleanedand dressed.314 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
moving through the water at up to 60 miles
an hour, it is known for its power and mus-
cular, scaleless body.  It usually weighs
between 200 and 500 pounds and measuresbetween 6 and 10 feet.
Preparation Tips
Swordfish is a rich-flavored fish with firm,
meaty flesh.  It is commonly purchased asfresh steaks and fillets, but it also can be foundsmoked, frozen, or canned.  Because the flesh
of swordfish is so firm, it can be prepared inalmost any manner, including sautéeing,grilling, broiling, baking, and poaching.
Servin g Suggestions
The rich flavor of swordfish stands up tosauces with pronounced flavor, such astomato-caper or basil-garlic.  Swordfish isalso a good fish for grilled kabobs, anotherlow-fat, healthful way to serve fish.
T una
The tuna is a migratory fish found in the temperate marine waters of theMediterranean Sea, the Atlantic Ocean, andthe Indian Ocean.  The most commonspecies include the bluefin, the albacore, thebonito, and the yellowfin tuna.  The tunais a powerful fish that is very agile and a fastswimmer.  The larger bluefin tuna usuallyweighs between 200 and 400 pounds andmeasures between 3 and 7 feet.  The smallerbonito tuna rarely is more than 20 incheslong and weighs less than 5 pounds. 
T una is also the most popular canned
fish, in large part because of its low costand versatility.  Several varieties are cannedand packed in oil, but the fish packed inwater provides the same protein withoutthe extra fat and calories.  Canned tuna issold as white tuna (albacore) and light tuna(bluefin and yellowfin).  The bonito isServin g Suggestions
Catfish is often served breaded or rolled in
cornmeal or flour before it is fried.  It canbe deep fried in fat — not necessarily thehealthiest way to cook a fish already con-sidered higher in fat — until it is brown onboth sides.
A healthier alternative is to poach cat-
fish fillets in a chicken stock, white wine,and ginger.  This cooking method resultsin a pleasing dish that is lower in fat thanthe traditional frying.
Swordfish
There is only one species of swordfish,named for its unusually long and slenderupper jaw.  It is found in temperate watersthroughout the world and is common inthe Atlantic Ocean, North Sea, Baltic Sea,and the Mediterranean Sea.  Capable of
Tuna salad sandwiches can 
be an elegant luncheon.labeled skipjack.  T una comes in three
grades, the best being solid or fancy (large
pieces), followed by chunk (smaller pieces)
and flaked or grated (pieces).
T una is sold fresh and frozen as steaks,
fillets, or pieces.  It is also available canned inoil or in water and either salted or unsalted.
Preparation Tips
All tuna has a distinctively rich-flavored fleshthat is firmly textured yet  flaky and tender.T una flesh tends to be soft before cooking,but it has a firm texture when cooked.  T unalends itself to several cooking methods, includ-ing poaching, braising, grilling, or baking. 
Servin g Suggestions
Fresh tuna is especially good with spicy andaromatic seasonings.  Marinate it in teriyakisauce or in lemon juice with cracked blackpepper, then grill it.  Mixed with reduced-fat mayonnaise and seasonings, canned,water-packed tuna makes an excellent fill-ing for sandwiches.
Higher-Fat Fish 
Up to 60 percent of calories of higher-fat
fish may be derived from fat.  On average,though, fish in this group have only about43 percent of calories from fat.  The goodnews is that much of the fat that these fishcontain is omega-3 fatty acids, which manystudies suggest play a role in protectingagainst cardiovascular disease and enhanc-ing brain function.  Flesh from these fishis darker and firmer and often has a strongerflavor.  Common types of higher-fat fishinclude mackerel, salmon, smelt, and trout. 
Mackerel
This oily fish is related to the tuna and isan excellent source of omega-3 fatty acid.High-Protein Foods 315
Tuna — Make sure the edges are opaque and the center slightly translucent with
flakes just beginning to separate.  Let stand 3 to 4 minutes to finish cooking.
Most mackerel caught is canned.  It is also
salted or smoked.
Persons who live near the coasts, how-
ever, may be able to purchase it fresh fromfish markets.  If purchasing it fresh, look forfish that are firm and stiff.  Limpness is a keyindicator that the fish is not fresh.  The fishshould be cooked and eaten as soon as pos-sible because it spoils quickly.  A bitter tasteis a key sign that the fish has begun to spoil.Freezing the fish is not an option becausethis seems to drain the flavor from this fish.
Preparation Tips
Remove the bones if filleting the fish.Because of mackerel’s high fat content, try touse methods that do not add fat.  Mackerelcan be baked, broiled, or poached. 
Servin g Suggestions
T raditionally, mackerel is served with goose-berries. Other methods include using acitrus marinade.  Mackerel can be used asa substitute for canned tuna in many recipes.It is also available smoked.Salmon
Salmon can range from moderate- to high-fat, depending on the species.  There areseveral species of salmon in the Pacific(chinook, sockeye, coho, pink, chum) andone in the Atlantic.  It has even beenacclimated to freshwater.  A once threat-ened species, it has survived thanks tosalmon farms and species management.Salmon are “anadromous,” meaning theymigrate from their saltwater habitat tospawn in fresh water.  The females of somespecies can lay up to 13,000 eggs.  The largerchinook salmon (also called king salmon)weighs between 30 and 40 pounds and mea-sures between 34 and 36 inches.  The small-er freshwater, or landlocked, salmon is short-
er, between 8 and 24 inches, and it rarelyweighs more than 13 pounds.
Salmon is sold in many forms, including
fresh, frozen, smoked, salted, dried, andcanned.  Fresh and frozen salmon can bepurchased whole or as steaks, pieces, orfillets.  Whole salmon is usually soldcleaned, with the head on or removed.316 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Preparation Tips
Smelt is sold in a variety of ways, includ-
ing fresh, frozen, smoked, or dried.  Smelt
is also commonly sold without the head orinnards.  Some people eat the bones, butit is easy to remove bones from this fish —either before eating it or while you are doingso, as you would a sardine.  The whole fishcan be consumed, however.
Servin g Suggestions
A common method of cooking is to coat
smelt with breading and then fry it in a
skillet until cooked (about 2 to 3 minutes).
Smelt also can be grilled. 
T rout
The trout is also part of the salmon family.It is found mainly in the cold, fresh watersof lakes and rivers, but it also can make itshome in saltwater.  Like the salmon, troutthat live in the sea (the steelhead trout)return to freshwater to spawn.  A favorite ofsports anglers, the trout was the first fishto be raised in captivity to forestall itsextinction.  The most common speciesinclude the brown trout, the rainbow trout,the lake trout, the brook trout, the arcticchar, and the common grayling.  The troutis a smaller fish and ranges in weight from1 1/2 to 13 pounds in the market and mea-sures up to 20 inches.
Preparation Tips
T rout has thin skin and minute scales, soscaling or skinning is not necessary.  It isavailable whole or in fillets, fresh or frozen.T rout is also smoked, and a very smallquantity is canned.  In general, trout hastender, flaky flesh with a mild flavor.  Itsdelicate flavor varies slightly from onespecies to another, as does its color, whichcan be white, pink, or reddish. onions, or it is added as a final touch tosandwiches, omelets, salads, and even dipsand spreads.  Salmon roe is becoming morepopular as “red caviar,” but real caviarcomes from sturgeon roe.  There are goodsalmon cuts for almost every cookingmethod.  Fillets are delicious when grilledand served with a wedge of lemon.  Salmonis good served hot or cold with a varietyof sauces.
Smelt
A relative of the salmon, this small, thinfish can be both a freshwater and a salt-water fish.  Some species are found in thePacific and Atlantic oceans, and othersinhabit freshwater sources.  The main typesof smelt are American smelt, Europeansmelt, and capelin.  All three types grow toabout 7 to 8 inches long. Smoked salmon is usually sealed in plastic
or frozen.  Salmon’s moist flesh is flaky andtender, and the flavor varies by species fromdelicate and mild to rich and distinctive.Salmon spoils quickly because the flesh isfatty.  The chinook is the fattiest salmon,and the pink and chum are leaner.   
Preparation Tips
The bones often included in canned salmonare edible and serve as a good source of cal-cium.  Make sure to crush the bones well.To remove the small bones (called pinbones) from fresh fillets or steaks, use atweezers  or pry them out of the flesh fromthe side.
Servin g Suggestions
Smoked salmon (also called lox) is oftenserved on bagels with cream cheese (choosereduced-fat or fat-free cheeses), capers, and
Salmon is an excellent source of
heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids.Servin g Suggestions
Although it is often served fried, trout also
can be poached, baked, steamed, grilled,
and broiled.  Whole trout is sometimesstuffed before being cooked.  Any season-ings should be kept mild so as not to masktrout’s delicate flavor. 
Shellfish
The shellfish family is divided into twobasic categories:  crustaceans and mollusks.Crustaceans have elongated bodies andjointed shells.  These include crab, lobster,and shrimp.  Mollusks are divided into threegroups:
Gastropods (or univalves) —These
have a single shell and single muscle.  An
example is the abalone.
Bivalves —Like the clam and oyster,
bivalves have two shells hinged together bya strong muscle.
Cephalopods —Examples include the
octopus and the squid, which have tentaclesand ink sacs.
Nutrition
Like fish, shellfish are rich in protein yetlow in fat and calories.  Compared withother types of meat, however, the amountof cholesterol in most shellfish is aboutequivalent to that of a lean piece of beef ora chicken breast with the skin removed.Shrimp, squid, and crayfish, however, arevery high in cholesterol.  They have abouttwice as much as lean beef, making themsomething to savor on occasion.
Selection
When selecting shellfish, remember thatfresh is best.  The best way to guaranteefreshness is to buy live.  If your geographiclocation limits your opportunities for liveHigh-Protein Foods 317
Stora ge
Once you leave the market, it is important
to keep shellfish cool and refrigerate it as
soon as possible.  At home, shellfish shouldbe rinsed under cool, running water, placedin a container, and covered with wet papertowels.  Use shellfish the day of purchase,if possible, or the next day. 
Do not seal live oysters, clams, or mussels
in a plastic bag.  They need to breathe, so
store them covered with wet paper towels.Use them as soon as possible after purchase.
Shucked oysters that are refrigerated in the
original container should stay fresh for a
week.  Plan to use commercially packagedfrozen seafood stored in your freezer within
2 months for best flavor. shellfish, check out the freezer case for quick-
frozen items, which can be almost as good.
Just as in picking out fish, use your nose to
select shellfish.  Shucked oysters and clamsshould be plump and free of any sour aroma.Fresh scallops should have a slightly sweetaroma and, when packaged, be practically freeof liquid.  Fresh shrimp are firm and have amild, faintly sweet smell.  Crab or lobstershould move and not have any noticeable odor.
Next, view the shellfish’s appearance.
The liquid packed with oysters should be
clear, not pink or opaque.  Scallops, lobster,and shrimp flesh should be free of any black
spots.  When you buy frozen shrimp, crab,
or lobster tail, make sure any exposed meat
is white, not yellow, and not dried out.
FISH AND SHELLFISH ALLERGIES
Seafood is a common source of food allergies.  About 250,000 Americansexperience allergic reactions to fish and shellfish each year.
People with seafood allergies can have symptoms that range from mild to life-
threatening.  Even tiny amounts of fish substances can trigger a reaction in somepeople.  What’s more, these allergies are rarely outgrown. 
Examples of shellfish that are common causes of allergic reactions include
shrimp, crab, lobster, oyster, clam, scallop, mussel, and squid.  Fish that can trigger allergic reactions include cod, salmon, trout, herring, sardine, bass, tuna,and orange roughy.
Symptoms of an allergic reaction include nasal congestion, hives, itching,
swelling, wheezing or shortness of breath, nausea, upset stomach, cramps, heart-burn, gas or diarrhea, light-headedness, or fainting. 
If you suspect that you have any food allergies, see an allergist for a careful
evaluation.  This generally includes a medical history, physical examination,and skin or blood testing.  If you are found to have a fish or shellfish allergy,the best advice is to avoid fish or shellfish altogether.  That may be harder than it sounds.  You may not be aware that seafood is an ingredient in a dishthat you are eating.  Be sure to check the labels of any product you buy.  In addition, make sure that persons close to you are aware of the potential forthis kind of allergic reaction.  Many people with a food allergy wear medicalalert bracelets. Cherrystone clams.  American
Indians called them “quahog.”Safety Issues
Persons who eat shellfish  raw should beware.
Raw shellfish may contain the organisms
that cause hepatitis and other diseases.Cooking will kill any microorganisms inshellfish.  In addition, because shellfish filterlarge amounts of water each day, they maycontain residual amounts of any pollutantsin the water near them.  Concerns aboutpotentially harmful chemicals are also aconcern about shellfish.  Women who arepregnant or thinking about having a childshould check with their physician abouthow much shellfish they should eat.
Another important safety note is that
shellfish are a common trigger of allergicreactions in some people (see sidebar:  Fishand Shellfish Allergies, page 317).
Abalone
Abalone is actually a large snail that livesin the sea.  It has a single shell and a tough,muscular “foot” with which it clings tena-ciously to rocks as it grazes on seaweed.The edible portion is this foot.
Abalone is found primarily along the
coastlines of California, Mexico, and Japan.Four of California’s seven species constitutemost of the commercial catch.  From largestto smallest are red, pink, green, and blackabalone, with red reaching a legal market sizeat 7 3/4 inches and black at 5 3/4 inches.Black abalone is the most affordable wildspecies today.  Its meat is tougher and requiresmore pounding than the other species, butit has an excellent sweet flavor.  It is an excel-lent source of protein and a good source ofiron, magnesium, and phosphorus.
Abalone is known by many names:
“ormer” in the English Channel, “awabi”in Japan, “muttonfish” in Australia, and“paua” in New Zealand.  Its iridescent shellis a source of mother-of-pearl.318 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
The quahog (pronounced CO-hog) is
a hard-shell species from the East Coast
and is the largest of Eastern clams (1 1/2 to
6 inches across).  Quahog is also a familyname for hard-shell clams that can includecherrystones (less than 3 inches) and lit-tlenecks (2 to 2 1/2 inches).  Also popularin the East are soft-shell clams called steam-ers.  As the name indicates, they are greatfor steaming.  On the West Coast, soft-shell Pacific geoducks (pronounced GOO-ey-ducks) weigh between 2 and 4 pounds,although they can be 3 feet long and upto 5 pounds.  They have an enormoussiphon that extends from the shell; this isoften sliced for sushi because it is also quitesweet.
As with all filter feeders, clams some-
times ingest toxic levels of planktonicmicroorganisms during a condition calledPreparation
Like all fresh shellfish, abalone should bealive when purchased — it will move whenit is touched — and smell sweet, not fishy.Choose those that are relatively small for
best flavor.  Refrigerate abalone immedi-ately and cook within a day.  Abalone is
also sold canned (once opened, refrigerate,covered with water in a sealed container,
for up to 5 days), dried (store tightly
wrapped in a cool, dry place indefinitely),
and frozen (store for up to 3 months).
Widely used in Chinese and Japanese
cooking, abalone must be washed first toremove sand that may be caught in the flesh.
Abalone must be pounded before cooking
to make it tender, because the edible portionis a muscle.  Use a mallet to flatten the meatto 1/8- to 1/4-inch thickness.  Overcookingabalone can toughen it.  Sauté abalonebriefly, for not more than 20 to 30 secondsper side.  Prevent abalone from curling dur-ing cooking by scoring the meat at 1/2-inchintervals with a sharp knife. 
Servin g Suggestions
Abalone is an  excellent addition to appe-
tizers and salads.  Tough or overcookedabalone can be added to chowders or soups.
Clam
Clams are double-hinged mollusks that fallinto two broad categories — hard shell andsoft shell.  The parts eaten are the musclesclams use to close their shells, although thesiphon (the valve used to intake water) andthe foot (which nudges this creature alongon the ocean’s floor) are also edible.  Clamsgenerally are chewy and have a mild, evensweet, flavor.  Taste and characteristics varyby the type of clam and its size.  All are alean seafood choice and an excellent  sourceof vitamin B
12and iron.red tide and also can become contaminated
from pollution.
When buying hard-shell clams such as
the littleneck or cherrystone (other vari-eties include chowder, pismo, or butterclams), make sure the shells are tightlyclosed.  If a shell is slightly open, tap it light-ly.  If it does not snap shut, the clam is deadand should be discarded.  The shells shouldbe whole, not broken or cracked.  To test
a soft-shell clam, such as geoducks or steam-ers (another popular variety is razor clams),
lightly touch the neck; if it moves, it is alive. 
Store live clams in an open container
covered with a moist cloth for up to 2 daysin the refrigerator.  Shucked clams shouldbe plump and the liquor (liquid) sur-rounding them clear.  Store shucked clamsin their liquor in the refrigerator for up to3 days and in the freezer for up to 3months.  If there is not enough liquor tocover the shucked clams, make your ownby dissolving 1/2 teaspoon salt in 1 cupwater. 
Preparation Tips
Get rid of sand by soaking live clams incold, salted water (use 1/3 cup salt pergallon water) for an hour.  Sand also canbe removed by covering the clams withwater, then sprinkling liberally with corn-meal and letting stand for about 3 hours.Any clams that are floating after these twomethods should be discarded.
Live clams should be well scrubbed
under cold, running water.  Clams aremuch easier to open if they are put intothe freezer in a single layer for 30 to 45minutes.  A quicker method for relaxingclams so that they are easier to open is todrop a few at a time into boiling water.Retrieve with a slotted spoon after 15seconds and open.  Clams also can bemicrowaved until they open.High-Protein Foods 319
plentiful.  Soft-shell crabs are not a distinct
variety of crabs.  Rather, they are crabs that
have shed their hard outer shell.  Before
growing a new shell, these crabs (usually avariety called blue crabs) have a 6-hourwindow during which they have a soft shell.This window can be extended if the crus-taceans are removed from water.  Thebenefit of a soft-shell crab is that it can beeaten whole without bothering with a pesky,rigid exterior.  Alaskan king crab is anoth-er term crab buyers may encounter.  Meatfrom this large crab species is frozen soonafter the catch.  Then, the sweet, meatyflesh is frozen so it can be shipped to far-flung locations. 
Crab is a lean source of protein and an
excellent source of  vitamin B
12.
Preparation Tips
Crab is sold whole, cooked or alive.  Chooselive crabs that are active and heavy for theirsize.  Hard-shell varieties should not havesoftening shells.  Refrigerate live crabscovered with a damp towel until just beforeServin g Suggestions
Clams should be cooked at low heat to
prevent toughening.  Clams cooked in their
shells are done just when their shells open.Soft-shell clams are best for this method.Use only fresh or frozen clams for soups andstews, because the texture of canned clams istoo soft for long-cooking dishes.  Clams areoften added to soups and stews.  A famousdish in which they are featured is clamchowder.  When adding clams to this type ofdish, do so at the last minute so they do notlose their texture.  Clams are also excellentadditions to dips, salads, and quiches.
Crab
There are dozens of different crabs on themarket today, varying widely in size andshape.  Therefore, it is important to knowwhat kind of crab you are buying beforebringing it home.
Crabs have 10 legs, the front 2 of which
have pincers.  There are freshwater and salt-water crabs.  Saltwater crabs are the most
Crab, lobster, and the tiny crayfish
are all excellent steamed.cooking.  Live crabs should be used the day
they are purchased.
Cooked whole crabs and crabmeat
should have a fresh, sweet smell.  Cookedcrab is available in whole pieces (lump whitemeat from the body) or in smaller pieces(flaked light and dark meat from the bodyand legs).
For ease of use, consider using canned
crabmeat.  Or, if you prefer, choose pas-
teurized crabmeat, which has been heatedin cans but has not been subjected to the
higher temperatures of the canning process.
For this reason, pasteurized crabmeat shouldbe stored unopened in the refrigerator nolonger than 6 months.  Use it quickly afteropening.  Always use your fingers to pickover crabmeat, fresh or canned, to makesure there are not tiny pieces of hidden shell.Refrigerate leftover cooked crabmeat, tight-ly covered, for not more than 2 days. 
Servin g Suggestions
Crabmeat has a tender, flaky texture and adelicate, sweet flavor.  For the best possibleflavor, choose live crabs.  If only cooked crabis available, add it to hot dishes during the lastminutes of cooking and cook just until hot.
Crabs can be cooked in a variety of low-
fat ways, including steaming and broiling orin broth-based soups and gumbos.  Crabcakes, traditionally held together with may-onnaise and bread crumbs, are leaving theconfines of New England for the rest of thestates.  A lower-fat version uses egg whitesin place of mayonnaise.  Instead of floatingcrabs  in a pan filled with oil, try dustingthem with flour and reducing the amountof oil you use.  
Lobster
One of the largest crustaceans, lobster hasa jointed body and limbs covered with a320 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Lobsters can be prepared in a variety of
ways, including steaming, broiling, and
grilling.  Another common preparation
method is boiling.  A general rule for cook-ing lobster with any method is to allow 12minutes per pound.  The lobster is done assoon as its shell becomes red or the meat turnsopaque.  A sign that a lobster has been over-cooked is that its meat is stringy and tough. 
Servin g Suggestions
The firm flesh and pleasant flavor of lobster
make it a versatile seafood.  It can be eaten
plain, seasoned with lemon juice, garlic, and
a drizzle of butter, or added to pâtés, salads,or sauces.  Lobster bisque, essentially a cream-based lobster stew, is a classic lobster dishenjoyed by diners the world over.  Because it is high in calories and fat, it should besavored on special occasions.  Lobster meatalso can be mixed with curry sauce.  It is alsoan elegant, tasteful addition when added tosalad greens  and sprinkled with lemon juiceor a spicy lower-fat vinaigrette. 
Mussels
Perhaps it is the dark shell that accountsfor its foreboding reputation.  Perhaps it isthe name, which makes it sound too muchlike a stringy, tough muscle.  Whatever thecase, mussels do not have the audience in
the United States that other forms of
seafood do, even though people throughoutthe world have been eating them for morethan 20,000 years.
Although there are dozens of mussel
species, only two reach American marketswith any regularity.  The blue mussel (which
is actually dark blue to black) and the blue-green mussel can be used in recipes inter-changeably, but the blue-green type fromNew Zealand is larger and more expensive.The blue mussel is most abundant, foundhard shell.  The coveted edible portion ofthe lobster is generally the sweet flesh inside
its tail, and sometimes in its claws.  Its liver(tomalley) and eggs (coral) also can beeaten.  Lobsters are prized by diners fortheir firm flesh and flavorful, yet not over-powering, taste.
Lobsters can be divided into two
groups: large, clawed (American) lobstersand spiny (rock) lobsters.  American lob-sters hail from around Maine, whereas rocklobsters can be caught in the waters off thesoutheastern United States and in thePacific.  American lobsters boast claws withyet more meat, but only the tails of spinylobsters are eaten.  These tails are often soldfrozen throughout the United States.  Themeat is more dense and fibrous than thatof the American lobster.  It lacks some ofthat characteristic sweetness, but the tailsare far more inexpensive than buying awhole American lobster.
Lobster is an excellent source of zinc.  
Preparation Tips
When selecting a live lobster, look for anactive one whose tail curls under its bodywhen lifted.  If lobsters have been storedon ice, they may be sluggish.  Bacteria formquickly in a dead lobster, so it is importantthat you purchase it live.  Live lobsters willdie quickly, so they must be kept in sea-water, wrapped in a wet cloth, or wrappedin several sheets of wet newspapers.  Usethese methods for only a few hours (24 hoursat most), then cook the lobster.  It is best
to cook lobster the same day you buy it. 
Whole, cooked lobsters should have their
tails curled tightly under their bodies, a signthey were alive when cooked. Cooked lobstermeat should be sweet-smelling and snow-
white.  Frozen tails should be in an untornpackage with no sign of frost; the visible meatshould be free of dry-looking spots.High-Protein Foods 321
along the Mediterranean, Atlantic, and
Pacific coasts.  It is usually 2 to 3 inches in
length.
Many mussels are being cultivated
instead of harvested because of the dangersposed by microscopic organisms (of red tidenotoriety) that make mussels unsafe to eatduring the spring and summer months. 
When choosing mussels, make sure they
are still alive by tapping on their shells.  If
they slam shut, they are still alive.  Thosewith tightly closed shells also are a good
choice.  In general, smaller mussels are more
tender.  Cultivated mussels are usuallysmaller, and they also lack some of the sandand grit of harvested mussels.  Chooseshucked mussels that are plump and havea clear liquor (liquid).  Or, opt for  plainand smoked mussels packed in oil. 
Store live mussels in a single layer on a
tray in the refrigerator covered only with adamp towel or wet newspapers for up to 2days.  Store shucked mussels in the refrig-erator up to 3 days.  They should be coveredcompletely with their liquor (liquid).  Ifyou need more liquor, combine 1 cup waterwith 1/2 teaspoon salt and pour this brineover the mussels to cover.
Preparation Tips
Before cooking, use a stiff brush to scrubmussels under cold, running water.  Pullout the dark threads (beard) that protrudefrom the shell.  Mussels die when debeard-ed, the term given for removal of thesethreads,  so do not remove the dark threadsuntil just before cooking.  Get rid of sandby soaking mussels in cold, salted water(use 1/3 cup salt per gallon of water) for 1hour.  Like all shellfish, mussels should becooked gently to prevent toughening.Mussels cooked in their shells are donewhen their shells pop open.  Discard anywith unopened shells.Fresh octopus already dressed and ready
for dishes can be found in many supermar-kets and specialty fish markets.  Frozen,smoked, and canned octopus is also avail-able.  Shop for octopus the same way youshop for fish, using your nose as a guide.Octopus should smell fresh, not fishy, and ifit has eyes, they should be bright, not cloudy.As with most aquatic species, octupus thatis smaller is younger and more tender.  Boththe body and all of the tentacles are edible.The ink sac contains an edible black liquidthat can be used to color and flavor foodssuch as pasta, soups, and stews.
Preparation Tips
Always rinse octopus well before cooking.Although many cooks believe that an octo-pus must be tenderized before cooking (suchas by beating it with a mallet or even hurl-ing it against a hard surface), octopus cansimply be cooked until it is tender.  Cookingtime varies by size.  Generally, an octopusthat weighs more than 4 pounds shouldServin g Suggestions
An elegant way to serve them is simple:  boilthem.  Add garlic, onion, a splash of oliveoil, and white wine to the water while cook-ing — generally, about 8 to 10 minutes.Saffron also provides an excellent flavor.Serve with French bread.  This can be brokeninto pieces to be used to soak up theflavorful broth you created while cookingthe mussels.  A general rule: about 1 poundof mussels per person is needed.
Octopus
Although popular in Japan andMediterranean countries, the octopus in
North America is more likely to be a villainof  “scary” movies than the star of a seafoodmeal.  But octopus is relatively inexpensiveand versatile, and it provides highly flavor-ful, meaty (albeit sometimes chewy) chunks.
Most octopuses weigh only about 3 poundsand reach a size of only 1 to 2 feet beforebeing caught for food. 
Mussels steamed with
white wine and onion322 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
simmer for about 45 minutes.  This seafood
can be cooked in a variety of ways, includ-
ing grilling, frying, steaming, and poaching.
Servin g Suggestions
Octopus is an excellent addition to seafood
stews and soups, adding an unusual textureto the dish.  Its flavor is enhanced by garlic,tomatoes, red wine, and soy sauce.
Oysters
Oysters have many different names, whichare clues to where they come from and theirvaried taste and appearance.  The marineplants they feed on account for these differ-ences.  The hard, rough, gray shell containsmeat that can vary in color from creamybeige to pale gray, in flavor from salty tobland, and in texture from tender to firm. 
Oysters are rich in zinc, iron, copper,
and vitamin B
12.  Interestingly, it is oysters’
relatively high zinc content that gave themtheir reputation as an aphrodisiac wheneaten raw.  
Purchase the freshest oysters you can
find.  Gauge freshness by tapping on the
oyster shells with your fingernail.  If theysnap shut quickly or are already shut tightly,they are fresh.  In general, smaller oysterswill be more tender than larger ones.  Buyshucked oysters of uniform size and colorencased in a clear liquor (liquid). 
You may store oysters for up to 3 days
in the refrigerator using the same method asfor mussels, but the sooner you use them,the better.  If any shells open during stor-age, tap them.  If they do not close, throwthem out.  Store shucked oysters, coveredby their liquor, for up to 2 days in the refrig-erator and up to 3 months in the freezer.  Ifthere is not enough liquor to cover theshucked oysters, make your own by dis-solving 1/2 teaspoon of salt in 1 cup of water.  Preparation Tips
Scrub live oysters under cold, running waterbefore opening.  Oyster knives speciallydesigned for removing the flesh from theshells — which can be a tricky operation —are available at cooking supply stores.  Oysters
and other bivalves will open more easily ifthey are heated briefly — such as by steam-ing them for several seconds or microwav-
ing them for a minute. 
Servin g Suggestions
When fresh and safely available, raw oystersare a unique treat.  “Raw bars” serve the tra-ditional “shooter,” a New Orleans-inspiredhot sauce covering a raw oyster.  If you servethem raw, keep them chilled (and preventthe growth of microorganisms) by puttingthem on a bed of ice. 
Oysters in the shell also can be cooked
in numerous ways:  baked, steamed, orgrilled.  Oysters Rockefeller, a hot horsd’oeuvre that is baked and broiled with aspinach topping, is a traditional, elegantfavorite.  Use shucked oysters in dressingsor poultry stuffings.  Oyster stew is oftenmade with only heavy cream, oysters, andbutter, but a healthier alternative can becreated with evaporated milk and addedvegetables, such as potatoes, pearl onions,carrots, or mushrooms. 
Scallops
Like clams and oysters, scallops are bivalves(two-shelled mollusks).  Scallops propel them-selves along the ocean floor by clapping theirshells together using a well-developed musclecalled the eye, the part of the scallop that is eaten.
If you avoid fish and other types of
shellfish, you may still like scallops becauseits eye is firmer than most shellfish meatand its flavor is mild yet sweet.  Scallopsare rich in vitamin B
12and potassium.Scallops are classified in two broad
groups: bay scallops and sea scallops.  Bayscallops, with meat about 1/2 inch in diam-eter, are sweeter, more succulent, and moreexpensive.  Sea scallops, with meat about
1 1/2 inches in diameter, are more widelyavailable.  A third type is the calico scallop,a small sea scallop from Florida, but it isoften sold as bay scallops.  These scallopshave to be steamed to be opened, so theyare partially cooked when sold.  They arethe cheapest of the scallops.
Because scallops cannot close their shells
tightly, they spoil quickly out of water, andthey are usually shucked at sea.  The muscleis iced and the rest discarded.  Sometimesthe coral-colored roe is left attached to beeaten with the muscle as a delicacy.
Look for scallops with a sweet smell and
a fresh, moist sheen.  Avoid any with astrong sulfur odor.  Scallops can range incolor from pale beige to creamy to orange.Avoid those that are stark white, a sign thatthey have been soaked in water as a marketingploy to increase the weight.  Refrigerateshucked scallops immediately after purchaseand use within 1 to 2 days.
Preparation Tips
Scallops must be opened like oysters if pur-chased unshucked.  Some sea scallops stillhave a small piece of tough connective tis-sue attached to one side, which should bepulled off and discarded.  Scallops needonly brief cooking.  Overcooking or reheat-ing cooked scallops will toughen them.  Theroe, if attached, can be cooked right alongwith the muscle.  Large scallops should besliced into smaller pieces.
Servin g Suggestions
Scallops are suitable for a variety of prepa-ration methods, including sautéeing, grilling,broiling, and poaching.  They also are usedHigh-Protein Foods 323
in soups, stews, and salads.  Scallops cook
very quickly — about 1 to 3 minutes —
and no scallop needs to cook longer than 6
to 8 minutes, no matter how large. 
Shrimp
Shrimp is the most widely consumedseafood worldwide, and it is the secondmost popular in the United States, aftertuna.  The harvest of both wild and farmedshrimp is increasing rapidly to keep pacewith the soaring demand for this crustacean.It has become popular internationallybecause its sweet, mild, and yet distinctflavor is similar to that of lobster, but it iseasier to cook and costs half as much.
Although hundreds of species are
caught, shrimp generally can be classifiedby origin — either warm water or coldwater.  Cold-water varieties — such as thewell-known small, pink, peeled shrimp —tend to be sweeter than the larger shrimp,which typically develop in warmer waters.These larger varieties  are often solduncooked and unpeeled under the name“prawns,” but the name can be used forshrimp of any size.
The names of shrimp can be confus-
ing.  Many varieties of shrimp are namedafter a color (white, pink, brown), but whiteshrimp are not necessarily white.  They maylook pink, brown, or gray.  Confoundingthe problem, most shrimp shells changecolor when cooked. 
Shrimp are marketed according to size
(number per pound), but market terms varygreatly.  Because shrimp freeze well, most,even those classified as “fresh” in the super-market, have been frozen at some point.Neither taste nor texture suffers much.
Shrimp is sold shelled or unshelled, raw
or cooked, and fresh or frozen.  Shrimp alsocan be bought breaded or stuffed or as acold or even frozen.  Shrimp are also usuallydeveined, although this is not necessarybefore eating small to medium-sizedshrimp.  To devein a shrimp, cut into theshrimp lengthwise with a sharp knife.  Thenuse the knife to remove the dark vein —which is actually the intestine that runsdown its back. 
Although there are slight differences in
texture and flavor, shrimp of various sizes
(except the miniatures) can usually be sub-stituted for each other.
As with all shellfish, shrimp should be
cooked briefly or it becomes tough andrubbery.  Cook only until the flesh turns
opaque.  To test, cut a shrimp in half, and
check whether the flesh has turned fromtranslucent to opaque.  Whole shrimpshould just begin to curl. If the shells areon, they should turn pink. spread for crackers or bread.  Dried shrimp
and shrimp paste can be found in Asian
grocery stores.
Preparation Tips
Choose raw, shelled shrimp that are firm,
moist, and translucent.  Avoid any shrimpthat smells like ammonia.  Unshelled shrimpshould have shiny, firm shells.  Avoid thosewith black spots and those with yellow orgritty shells, which result from a bleachingprocess to remove the spots. 
Before storing fresh, uncooked shrimp,
rinse them well under cold, running waterand drain thoroughly.  Refrigerate, tightlycovered, for up to 2 days.
Shrimp are usually shelled before they
are eaten, which is easily accomplished bypeeling back the head first, then the rest ofthe shell.  Shelling is easier when shrimp are
For a tasty and healthful change, grill scallops and serve with a
variety of vegetables (grilled zucchini, white beans, and scallions).324 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
where they can soften in less than an hour.
Soaking shortens cooking time by 30
minutes to up to an hour.  It also has the
advantage of reducing flatulence (intestinalgas) by making them more digestible.
Legumes that are sold as “quick-cook-
ing” have been presoaked and redried beforepackaging and thus do not need to be soaked. 
When several types of legumes are
required for a dish, it is best to cook each
type separately because it is difficult to cookthem uniformly together.
Nutrition
Legumes are great sources of nutritionbecause they carry the embryonic necessi-ties for starting a new plant.  They are highin protein, folic acid, potassium, iron, mag-nesium, and phytochemicals (see theAppendix:  Phytochemical Contents ofSelected Foods, page 484).  Legumes arenot complete proteins like meats (soybeansare an exception), but they can be pairedwith complementary foods, such as grains,to ensure a meal provides a complete sourceof amino acids for building proteins.  Andunlike meat, they are low in fat, high infiber, and inexpensive. 
Because of their low cost, legumes were
once considered “poor man’s meat.”  Butwith the increased popularity of ethniccuisines (such as Mexican, Chinese, andMediterranean), the growing popularity ofvegetarianism, and the recognized healthbenefits of legumes, they have shed thisoutdated perception.
Selection
There are expensive “designer beans,” butmost legumes are widely available at grocerystores and are an inexpensive addition tomeals.  Look for a uniform appearance tothe product you are buying.  Legumes shouldalso have a deep, almost glossy color.  Avoid
Most legumes are annual plants that can
grow as vines or bushes.  The shape, size, and
color of the stems, leaves, and flowers differ
according to species.  After fertilization ofthe flowers, pods develop.  These containseeds of varying sizes, shapes, and colors.
The plants of the legume family share
two main features.  First, they produce sin-gle-chambered, flattened seedpods withseeds inside.  Either the pod or the seedsinside (or both) are eaten. 
A second common feature is that
legumes are capable of an important bio-
logical process called nitrogen fixation,
which actually enriches or naturally fertil-izes the soil in which the plants grow.
Accordingly, legumes (such as soybeans and
alfalfa) are grown in rotation with othercrops (such as corn) that only take nutri-ents from the soil. 
Legumes are sold in many forms.  They
are available as whole fresh pods, such as
green beans, and in dried pods, such as the
tamarind.  Lima beans are examples oflegumes available as fresh seeds, and driedseeds include black-eyed peas.  There arealso seed sprouts, such as alfalfa sprouts andsoybean sprouts.  Although technically con-sidered legumes, tamarind and jicama aretreated as a fruit and vegetable, respectively.
Legumes are generally easy to prepare
and can be either the main entrée or theside dish.  Generally, dried legumes are rehy-
drated before cooking, which is done by
soaking them in water for about 6 to
8 hours.  An alternative and
shorter method is to put
them in a pressure
cooker or to simmer
them in a panServin g Suggestions
One reason for the popularity of shrimp isits versatility.  Name a cooking technique,
and you probably will be able to find a
shrimp recipe for it.  Shrimp is served coldin shrimp cocktail.  It can be grilled, boiled,broiled, roasted, curried, or stir-fried.  Itgoes well with pasta and rice. It is also an
excellent ingredient in soups and can be
used interchangeably with other shellfishin recipes.  Garlic is a seasoning that par-ticularly complements shrimp’s flavor.  Thetwo are used together in well-known dishessuch as shrimp scampi.
Legumes
Legumes have historically been part ofmeals throughout the world.  There isabundant evidence that the peanut and limabean have been used for centuries in SouthAmerica.  Soybeans and mung beans,among others, have been a key part of Asiandishes throughout history.  The MiddleEast is the origin of broad beans, chickpeas,and lentils.  Because of this, cooking withlegumes can provide an education and anintroduction to international cuisine.High-Protein Foods 325
buying products that are cracked, broken,
dry-looking, or faded.  These are most likely
to have been on the shelf for a while.
Stora ge
Dried legumes are easily stored.  Putting
them in a covered container or closed plasticbag can help maintain their freshness andextend their shelf life.
Legumes that are commonly used are
described on the following pages.
Alfalfa
Also known as lucerne, alfalfa is the commonname of a legume that once was thought ofonly as animal feed.  The plant is believed tohave originated in southwestern Asia aroundthe area of Asia Minor and the CaucasusMountains.  Spanish explorers brought theplant to the Americas, where, in the UnitedStates, it was first established as a crop inCalifornia in the 1850s. 
Alfalfa grows up to 5 feet in height and
bears spiral-shaped pods containing six toeight small brown or yellow seeds.  Becausethe roots are capable of extending as muchas 30 feet into the soil, the alfalfa plant canreach stores of water and nutrients thatallow it to survive periods of extremedrought.
Alfalfa became part of the human diet
on a wide scale in the 1970s, when manypeople began to enjoy alfalfa sprouts.  Today,alfalfa sprouts are sold in most grocery stores. 
Preparation Tips
Alfalfa sprouts should be washed thoroughlybefore they are eaten.  Buy sprouts that lookhealthy and green.  Avoid those that areoff-color, smell moldy, or look soggy.  Theycan be kept for about a week in the refrig-erator (see sidebar:  Is It Safe to Eat RawSprouts? this page).removed by blanching (plunging the beansinto boiling water briefly, then running themunder cold water).  This process loosens theskin, which can then be easily removed.Buying beans that are split and dried willhelp the beans cook faster and eliminate theneed to get rid of the tough outer skin.Servin g Suggestions
Usually used raw, alfalfa sprouts can be
added to salads, sandwiches, omelets, tacos,
and hors d’oeuvres.  They also can be usedto garnish soups and stews.  In parts ofChina and Russia, the plant’s tender, youngleaves are eaten as a vegetable.
Broad Beans (Fava Beans)
Commonly called fava beans in the UnitedStates, broad beans are also known as haba,English, Windsor, tick, cold, horse, or fieldbeans.  Broad beans get their name fromthe seeds, which are large and flat and looklike very large lima beans.  The seeds rangein length from about a half inch to 2 inches.They can also vary in color from white,green, buff, brown, and purple to black.
Broad beans are an excellent source of
nutrition.  They are rich in fiber, folic acid,
potassium, magnesium, and thiamin, to
name just a few nutrients.
Preparation Tips
Broad beans are commonly available driedor precooked in cans, although they cansometimes be found fresh in the pod.  Thebeans have a very tough skin that can be
Sprouting at homeISITSAFE TO EATRAWSPROUTS ?
All plant sprouts that are eaten rawmay pose a health risk.  The reason,according to the U.S. Food andDrug Administration, is that theycould be contaminated with food-borne pathogens such as theSalmonella bacterium or another
harmful bacterium, Escherichia (E.)
coli.  Pregnant women, children, the
elderly, and persons with compromisedimmune systems (such as peoplewith cancer) may be harmed byingesting sprouts.
If you are one of the people in
these groups, avoiding sprouts wheneating out is advised.  However, eventhe seeds that are used for sprouts thatare grown at home can be contaminated.  326 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Servin g Suggestions
Broad beans are starchy and strong-flavored
and are great puréed or mashed and in salads.
In Italy, broad beans are combined with otherstrong-flavored ingredients, and in Francethey are considered a good cocktail food. 
A simple but elegant serving suggestion
is to add a little butter to the cooked beansand a sprinkle of salt and pepper to taste andthen serve topped with chopped parsley.
Chickpeas (Garbanzo Beans)
Botanical and archeological evidence revealsthat chickpea plants were first domesticat-ed in the Middle East in ancient times.Today, however, India supplies 80 to 90percent of the world’s supply of chickpeas. 
The many names that chickpeas go by
are a nod to the many regions of the worldwhere they are now grown and eaten.  InIndia, they are referred to as Bengal gram.In Spanish-speaking countries, they are gar-banzo.  The Arab world refers to them ashamaz (or hummus), and in Ethiopia theyare called shimbra.
The plants grow in tropical to temperate
regions and reach about 2 feet in height.Plants bear inflated inch-long pods enclos-ing one or two irregularly shaped seeds.Middle East, they are mashed and used as the
main ingredient in hummus, a thick sauce
made with lemon juice, olive oil, and sesame
seed paste.  Hummus is becoming a populardish in the United States.  Falafel, a MiddleEastern croquette, is another dish that drawson the chickpea as its main ingredient.  In theMediterranean region, chickpeas are addedto Spanish stews and Italian minestrone soups. 
Common Beans
Beans provide a good source of dietary fiber.Beans or peas, eaten together or at separatemeals, form a high-quality protein essen-tially equivalent to that from animal sources.(For more information on green beans, alsoknown as snap or string beans, see page 257.)
Common beans originated in Central
America, where archaeological remains ofthese beans, found in association with theremains of maize and squash, have beencarbon dated to more than 7,000 years ofexistence.  Columbus and subsequentSpanish and Portuguese explorers carriedbeans back to Europe and eventually intro-duced them throughout Asia and Africa. 
A few of the most familiar beans are
described here.
Black Beans
Many people have become acquainted withblack beans after eating at Mexican restau-rants, where they are served boiled or refried.Also known as turtle beans, black beans area common part of the cuisine throughoutCentral and South America, the Caribbean,
and the southern United States.  As their nameindicates, they have a completely black skin.They have a mild, somewhat sweet taste.
Black beans are an excellent source of
folate and a good source of iron, magnesium,phosphorus, potassium, and thiamin.The seeds are about one-quarter to one-half
an inch in diameter and can be buff-col-ored, yellow, brown, black, or green.  The
plant’s young, green pods and sprouts canalso be eaten.
Like many legumes, chickpeas are an
excellent source of fiber.  In addition, they
are a good source of magnesium.
Preparation Tips
Chickpeas are available at most grocery stores
both canned and dried.  They can be eaten
fresh, fried, roasted, or boiled.  Generally,chickpeas should be soaked overnight before
cooking, which is usually done by boilingthem.  Dried chickpeas may take as long as2 hours before they are soft and ready to eat.A pressure cooker is also an option and canreduce cooking time by half.
Servin g Suggestions
Chickpeas have a mild, slightly nutty flavorand a firm texture.  They can be used in appe-tizers, salads, soups, or main dishes.  Flourmade from ground chickpeas can be madeinto breads or used as batter for deep-fat fry-ing.  They also can be combined with pastaor simply served by themselves.  Sometimesthey are served roasted and salted like peanuts.They are part of cuisine worldwide.  In the
Broad beans (fava beans) Chickpeas (garbanzo beans)High-Protein Foods 327
Preparation Tips
Presoak beans.  Black beans are relatively
thin-skinned and cook quickly (about 30
minutes) if you want to keep them some-what firm.  For soups and stews, they mayneed to be boiled for 1 1/2 hours or longer.
Servin g Suggestions
Black beans are a delicious dish all by them-selves, served with a dollop of low-fat sourcream and bits of diced avocado or guacamole.They are also often stewed, accompanied by
rice.  They are the key ingredient in frijoles,refritos, or refried beans (but go easy on the
fat), and they are the star of black bean soup. 
Cranberry Beans
Cranberry beans are about a half-inch longand are brownish with pink splotches thatdisappear when cooked.  Cranberry beanshave a nutty flavor.  Their creamy, red-streaked flesh has a smooth texture. 
Nutritionally speaking, cranberry beans
are an excellent source of folate and a goodsource of iron, magnesium, phosphorus,
potassium, and copper.
Preparation Tips
Presoak beans. Cranberry beans can be sub-stituted in any recipe that calls for red beansor white beans, and they can be preparedlike pinto beans (simmering in water, cov-ered, for 50 to 60 minutes).
Servin g Suggestions
Cranberry beans can be added to pasta dishesand salads.  In Europe, they often are used instews. 
Kidney Beans 
As their name suggests, kidney beans arekidney-shaped.  They are available in anassortment of colors.  Chili lovers will read-ily recognize the most common kidneyWHYDOBEANS CAUSEGASSINESS ?
Beans do cause flatulence in many persons who eat them.  The gassiness is theresult of fermentation of the seeds’ complex sugars, or oligosaccharides, by bacteriain the large intestine.  Persons who eat beans frequently find that they do notdevelop gas as much.
To reduce the flatulence effect, try these strategies:
• The flatulence-producing effect of beans can be further reduced by changing
the water several times during soaking and during cooking and by simmering thebeans slowly until they are tender. 
• If a recipe calls for salt, lemon juice, vinegar, or tomatoes, these ingredientsshould be added near the end of cooking because acidic ingredients stop theprocess by which legumes absorb liquid and soften.• Use commercially available products that can be added to dishes beforeserving.  These products contain an enzyme that breaks down the complex sugars before they start causing problems.
bean:  the red kidney bean, which has adeep-red color and a full flavor.
Another type of kidney bean is the flag-
eolet; its seeds are small, thin, and pale-green.Mainly available dried, canned, or frozen inthe United States, flageolets are more pop-
ular in Europe.  The cannellini bean isanother type of kidney bean.  It is large andwhite and has a more delicate flavor thanthe red kidney bean.
Kidney beans are an excellent source of
folic acid and a good source of iron, mag-nesium, phosphorus, potassium, copper,and thiamin.
Preparation Tips
Kidney beans commonly are canned.  Ifyou choose to use fresh beans instead ofcanned, prepare red kidney beans by pre-soaking and then simmering them in water,covered, for 1 1/2 hours.  Flageolets andcannellini beans can be cooked with thesame method for 25 to 30 minutes.
Servin g Suggestions
Consider red kidney beans an all-purposebean.  They make good additions to chiliand can be baked, puréed, or refried.
Cannellini beans can be added to salads orsoups.  Flageolets are often served in awhite sauce seasoned with shallots, thyme,bay leaf, and clove.  In this way, they aresaid to be served “French style.”  In France,they also may be served with a roast leg oflamb.
Pinto Beans
Pinto means “painted” in Spanish.  It is anapt word to describe this bean because theyare pink or beige with reddish brown spotsand streaks.  Pinto beans are popular in theAmerican Southwest and in Mexico, wherethey are an essential part of everyday cuisine.
From a nutrition perspective, pinto beans
are an excellent source of folate and a goodsource of iron, magnesium, phosphorus,potassium, copper, and thiamin.
Preparation Tips
Pinto beans usually are sold dried but arealso available cooked and canned.  Presoakdried beans and simmer them, covered, for50 to 60 minutes.328 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Servin g Suggestions
Pinto beans are great served with rice, as
refried beans, puréed, or in chili. 
White Beans 
White bean is a term given to varieties of
beans that have light-colored seeds.  There
are several varieties of white beans: 
Marrow beans —The largest and
roundest of white beans, marrow beans are
often grown in the eastern United States.
They are creamy but firm after cooking andusually are available as a dried bean. 
Great Northern beans —Great
Northern beans are smaller than marrowbeans and have a more delicate flavor.  Theyare typically grown in the Midwest.  Theystand up well to baking.
Navy beans —Most people know these
as the beans found in canned pork and beanproducts.  Navy beans require lengthy, slow
cooking, which makes them excellent addi-tions to soups and baked dishes.
White beans are an excellent source of
iron and folate and a good source of magne-
sium, phosphorus, potassium, and copper.
Preparation Tips
Presoak beans.  Cook them in water, cov-
ered for marrow beans, 35 to 45 minutes;
for Great Northern, 1 to 1 1/2 hours; andfor navy beans, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
Servin g Suggestions
Mild-flavored white beans can be puréed,
baked, added to soups and stews, or com-bined with other vegetables and served withpasta.  Navy bean soup is a hearty dish madefrom the navy bean.  Baked beans, usuallymade of navy beans, are enjoyed cold or hot. A SEAFARING BEAN?
Navy beans are so-named becausethey have been a common dish servedto sailors in the U.S.  Navy since themid 1800s.  Sometimes they are alsoreferred to as “Yankee beans.” 
Slow cooking with molasses gives “white” navy beans their color.Dolichos Beans
Derived from the Greek word dolikhos ,
meaning long or elongated, the general term
“dolichos beans” is used to refer to legumesof the genus Vigna and the lablab bean.
Common beans considered dolichos beansinclude the adzuki bean, the black-eyedpea, the lablab bean, and the mung bean.
Adzuki Beans (Azuki Beans)
Adzuki beans have been cultivated andenjoyed for many centuries in Asia.  TheChinese have attributed mystical power tothese beans and believe that they bring goodluck.  This is one reason they are a part ofmany foods used at celebrations. 
The bean has a rich, somewhat sweet
flavor.  It has a reddish color.  The plant thatbears adzuki beans has 5-inch-long cylin-drical pods that contain 4 to 12 oblong seedswith flat ends.  Adzuki beans are usuallysold dried, but they also may be sold asyoung pods that are eaten like green beans. 
Adzuki beans are an excellent source of
folate and a good source of iron, magnesium,phosphorus, potassium, zinc, and copper.
Preparation Tips
Presoak dried beans.  Simmer in water,covered, for 30 to 40 minutes.
Servin g Suggestions
Adzuki beans have a mild, delicate flavorand grainy texture.  Sometimes they areeaten with rice.  However, they are oftenmade into a flour or paste, which is used
in desserts or candies.  Combined with
sugar, water, starch, plant gums, and other
ingredients, adzuki beans are used as a fillingfor bread, steamed cakes, and dumplings.In addition, they can be puffed like cornor sprouted.  Adzuki beans may be roastedto make a substitute for coffee. 
Black-Eyed Peas 
The black-eyed pea has many names, includ-ing the cowpea, callivance, cherry bean, frijol,China pea, and Indian pea.  It gets its namefrom the circular black hilum, or “eye,” onthe seed’s inner curve, where it is attachedto the pod.  The hilum may also be brown,red, or yellow.  The seeds can be wrinkledor smooth and range in shape from roundto kidney-shaped.  The plant that bearsblack-eyed peas is grown in warm regions ofthe world and can grow to 3 feet in height.
Black-eyed peas are an excellent source
of folate and a good source of magnesiumand potassium.
Preparation Tips
Because black-eyed peas have thin skins,presoaking is optional.  Soaked or unsoakedversions of fresh and dried black-eyed peascook in about 30 to 60 minutes, covered,over low heat.  Black-eyed peas are alsoavailable frozen and canned.
Servin g Suggestions
Black-eyed peas can be used to make soups,salads, fritters, and casseroles and are oftenserved with meat.  They are the key ingre-dient in the Southern dish called “Hoppin’John,” which consists of black-eyed peascooked with salt pork and seasonings andserved with rice.  According to southern U.S.tradition, eating black-eyed peas on NewYear’s Day brings good luck for the year.High-Protein Foods 329
Mun g Bean
Although its name suggests Chinese or
Asian cuisine, the mung bean has beengrown in India for centuries.  India is stillone of the leading producers of this legume.
Mung beans are also grown in the United
States, where they are sometimes referred toas a “chickasaw pea.”  Sometimes this beanis also known as green gram, golden gram,and chop suey bean (mung bean sprouts are
an important ingredient in this dish).
Mung bean seeds can be green (the
most common), yellow, brown, or mottledblack.  The seeds themselves are tiny —about one-eighth inch in diameter.
Nutritionally speaking, the mung bean
seed is an excellent source of folic acid anda good source of  magnesium, phosphorus,and thiamin.
Preparation Tips
Mung beans are available as dried beans or assprouts.  Wash sprouts thoroughly before use.Lablab (Hyacinth Bean)
Although grown in the United States mainlyas an ornamental plant, the lablab is a pop-ular food in Africa, Asia, and Central andSouth America.  Seeds are less than a half-inch long.  Their color ranges from white
to brown, red, and black.  The plant itselfgrows as a vine, with large broad leaves.
Lablab is an excellent source of iron and
magnesium and a good source of phos-phorus, zinc, copper, and thiamin.
Preparation Tips
Lablab pods can be eaten fresh.  Dried
beans can be prepared in the same way as
other legumes.
Servin g Suggestions
Lablab sprouts can be eaten.  Often, how-ever, lablab seeds are ground into flour and
used to make bread or an oatmeal-like dish.
In India, lablab seeds are dried, split, andthen cooked.
Dolichos bean varietiesAdzuki Lablab
Mung Black-eyed peas330 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Lima beans are a good source of iron,
magnesium, phosphorus, and potassium.
Preparation Tips
Fordhook and baby lima beans are sometimes
available fresh in their pods.  Immature
lima beans can be eaten fresh with or with-out the pods.  Although mature pods aretoo tough to be edible, the seeds are avail-able year-round in frozen, canned, anddried forms that are usually labeled accord-ing to size rather than botanical variety.Presoak dried beans, then simmer in water,covered, for 60 to 90 minutes.
Unlike many other types of beans, lima
beans can be easily overcooked; they quickly
become mushy if cooked longer than nec-
essary to make them soft. 
Servin g Suggestions
The taste of cooked lima beans is starchy butdelicate.  They can be boiled and served wholeor mashed, or they can be added to soups andsalads.  In succotash, a traditional Southerndish that includes peppers, tomatoes, andcorn, lima beans are the main ingredient. 
Peanuts
Despite their name, peanuts are not nutsat all, but the seeds of a legume.  They arecommonly thought of as nuts because ofBeans do not need to be soaked before cook-
ing.  Whole beans cook in about an hour.
Servin g Suggestions
Mung bean sprouts can be used fresh in sal-ads or stir-fried with vegetables, noodles,and meat, poultry, seafood, or tofu.
Beans can be ground into flour to make
noodles (called bean threads or cellophanenoodles because of their thinness and trans-parent appearance) or candy.  Puréed mungbeans may be used to fill breads and pas-tries.  They are also used to make moog dal,an Indian spread eaten with rice or bread.
Lentil
The lentil was probably one of the earliestlegumes to be domesticated.  Now culti-vated in many parts of the world, the lentilis known as ads in Arabic, merimek inT urkey, messer in Ethiopia, heramame inJapan, and masoor, dal, or gram in India,which is now the leading producer. 
This bushy plant reaches a maximum
of 2 feet in height.  The pods are short, flat,and oblong.  Seeds can be red, orange,yellow, brown, or green.  The seeds areclassified as large (macrospermae) or small(microspermae), with each type contain-ing dozens of varieties.
Lentils, like many legumes, are an excel-
lent source of folate and a good source ofpotassium, iron, and phosphorus.
Preparation Tips
Lentils are available in a variety of forms.They can be purchased whole, husked, andsplit like peas.  They cook quickly and, thus,dried lentils do not need to be soaked beforepreparation.  Different varieties call for dif-ferent cooking times — from 5 minutes foryellow lentils to 30 minutes for brown orgreen lentils.  Lentils should always be
Lentils
Lima beanswashed before cooking to remove dirt, dust,
and, possibly, tiny stones.
Servin g Suggestions
Because lentils do not hold their shape well,they are popularly used to make soups andstews.  They also can be added to salads ormixed with grains to make breads and cakes.Lentils are particularly popular in India,where they are frequently made into a spicydish called dal.  Dal is made with lentils,tomatoes, onions, and other seasonings.  Dalalso can be made from many other legumes.
Lima Beans
Lima beans were originally cultivated inSouth America, from where they werebrought to Europe, Asia, and Africa byEuropean explorers.  In the southern UnitedStates, lima beans are called butter beans,and the mottled purple varieties are calledcalico or speckled butter beans.  Lima beansalso may be referred to as Madagascar beans. 
Lima bean plants bear flat, oblong pods
about 2 to 4 inches in length that containtwo to four smooth, kidney-shaped seeds.There are numerous varieties of lima beans,and their seeds vary in size and color.  Thecommonly sold seeds are pale green, butpurple, red, brown, black, and mottled onesare also available.  The two most commonvarieties are the Fordhook and the baby lima,which is smaller and milder.how they are used and because of their nut-
like shells.  The “shells,” however, are actu-
ally the fibrous seed pods of a legume,
encasing one to three seeds wrapped in anedible, papery thin seed coat.  These seedpods are easy to crack and range from lessthan an inch to about 2 inches long andhave the same contours as the round seedsunderneath.
Peanut plants are separated into either
bunch or runner types.  The bunch typebears seed pods close to the base of theplant, whereas the runner type has seedpods scattered along the branches.  Runnertypes were introduced in the 1970s and arenow more popular than bunch types, prob-ably because runner peanuts are primarilyused to make peanut butter, for which halfof all peanuts are produced.
Spanish peanuts — a bunch-type
peanut with small, round seeds covered bya reddish brown skin — are usually roasted,salted, and vacuum-packed.  Virginiapeanuts, which can be a runner or a bunchplant, are larger and more oval and are usuallysold roasted in the shell. 
Peanuts contain quite a bit of fat, but the
fat in them is primarily monounsaturatedfat.  Peanuts are  an excellent source of mag-nesium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, niacin,and folate and a good source of iron.
George Washington Carver, an African-
American botanist who worked in the late19th century, is well known as the “Fatherof the Peanut Industry” for having inge-niously developed more than 300 uses forthe peanut, including as an ingredient inshoe polish, soap, bleach, medicine, ink,paint, and ice cream.  In 1890, an Americanphysician invented what we now know aspeanut butter to provide an easily digestible,nutritious food for his elderly patients.However, long before this, other culturesmade similar edible paste from peanuts.High-Protein Foods 331
a vegetable in African, Indian, South
American, and Asian cooking.  Peanuts canbe cooked with fish, meat, and poultry andused to flavor sauces, soups, salads, anddesserts.  Peanut soup, a southern U.S.favorite, is a creamy, spicy-hot dish.Preparation Tips
Peanuts are available in a variety of forms,
including raw, dry-roasted or honey-roasted, salted or unsalted, shelled orunshelled, peeled or unpeeled, whole orchopped, and as peanut butter.  Theyoung pods, leaves, and plant tips can becooked and eaten in the same manner asa green vegetable.  Unshelled peanuts can
be refrigerated in an airtight container for
up to 6 months, and shelled peanuts forup to 3 months.  Peanuts also can becooked, a process that generally takesabout 30 minutes. 
Servin g Suggestions
Although peanuts are usually consumed asa snack, turned into peanut butter, or usedto make candy or baked goods in theUnited States, they are frequently used as
Peanut butter — not just for sandwichesPeanuts332 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
beans are an excellent source of a variety of
nutrients, including iron, vitamin B6, and
phosphorus, and a good source of potassi-um and calcium.  Also, they are rich in thephytochemicals called isoflavones.
Soybeans are usually processed into
other products.  For example, soy oil is usedto make ink for newspapers.  Soybean prod-ucts are added to a variety of foods duringprocessing.  Many foods, though, are made
almost entirely from soy (see sidebar:  “Soy”Many Products to Choose From, page 333).
For cultures in which soy is the main
source of protein, rates of cardiovasculardisease and some kinds of cancers are rela-tively low.  Researchers are also looking intowhether soy plays a role in preventing osteo-porosis and easing hot flashes associatedwith menopause.  Some studies suggestthere may be a link (see Chapter 2 sidebar:Soy What? page 34). 
Although it may be too early to make
specific health claims for soy, there isevidence that adding soy to your diet makesgood nutritional sense.  And, you may justdiscover a whole new range of healthfulfood products to enjoy.
Preparation Tips
Generally, the soybeans now being incorpo-rated into food are already processed, such asthe soybean oil in margarines and salad dress-ings and the soy protein in baby formula andmeat substitutes.  Or, they may already beincorporated into food products, such as tofu.Dried soybeans are often available at healthfood stores.  They need to be soaked beforecooking to soften them.  They are usuallysimmered, sometimes up to 9 hours, beforethey are softened enough to eat.  Fresh andfrozen soybeans are now appearing in markets.Many cooks recommend cooking soybeanswith full-flavored items because they are ratherflavorless by themselves.way as green beans.  Many Asian dishes call
for them as a key ingredient.
To shell fresh peas (usually green peas
or English peas), use the same stringing tech-nique on only one side of the pod, then useyour thumb to push out the peas.  Rinsethoroughly.  When buying fresh peas, lookfor bright-green, smooth, uniform pods thatare free of spots, dryness, or other blight.
Servin g Suggestions
Peas can be added to meals in a variety ofways.  They can be braised, boiled, steamed,or stir-fried and added to pasta dishes andcasseroles.  Pea pods can be substituted inany recipe that calls for green beans.
Raw, fresh peas, although difficult to
find, are tasty additions to salads.  So aresnow peas and sugar snap peas.  Fresh and
frozen peas should be cooked only briefly
to preserve their color and flavor.
Soybeans
If the only soy in your diet comes from thesoy sauce you sprinkle on chow mein, youmay be missing out on more than just atasty and versatile food.  Soy is an inex-pensive way to add protein to your diet andmay also help reduce fat when substitutedfor meat in traditional dishes. 
Soy products come from the soybean, a
legume native to northern China.  TheUnited States now produces much of theworld’s soybeans.  There are more than1,000 varieties of soybeans.  They range insize from a pea to a cherry.  Colors includered, yellow, green, brown, and black.  Theprotein in soy is a “complete” protein —the most complete you can get from veg-etable sources — and just as good nutri-tionally as animal protein.  In fact, there ismore protein in 1 cup of soybeans than in3 ounces of cooked meat.  In addition, soy-Peas
Like peanuts, peas may not be immedi-ately recognizable as a legume, because theyare marketed and consumed as a vegetable.But appearances are deceiving because, likeother legumes, peas are an excellent source
of protein.  A serving of peas (about 3/4
of a cup) contains as much protein as atablespoon of peanut butter, but with farless fat.
The pea is an annual plant that grows
from 1 to 5 feet high.  It requires a cool,relatively humid climate.  There are morethan 1,000 different types of peas.  Differentplants produce smooth-seeded peas, wrin-kled-seeded peas, field peas, snow peas, andsugar snap peas.
Smooth-seeded peas are commonly
sold frozen, whereas wrinkled-seeded peasare used for canning because they aresweeter.  Field peas are grown mainly fordrying.  Snow peas and sugar snap peasare grown for their edible crisp, sweet pods. 
Peas are a good source of iron.
Preparation Tips
Peas are available fresh, canned, frozen, ordried.  Dried peas, which can be yellow orgreen, are sold whole.  Or, they may be split.Whole dried peas need to be soaked beforecooking and may take up to 1 to 2 hours tobecome soft.  Split dried peas do not needto be soaked; however, they do not holdtheir shape during cooking and so are gen-erally used for sauces and soups.  A familiardish made of split peas is, of course, splitpea soup.  Snow peas and sugar snap peasare usually sold fresh.  Before eating, rinsethem off and then cut the top from a snowpea pod.  Remove the string from both sidesof a sugar snap pea’s seams by pulling the
attached fibrous string upward from thebottom.  Although they are delicious raw,pea pods also can be cooked in the sameServin g Suggestions
Although Americans generally eat soy as part
of other products, soybeans can be eaten
fresh, roasted, ground into flour, or pressedinto oil.  The Chinese first invented soysauce, then the Japanese borrowed theprocess to make their own sweeter version.Dark and light varieties are available.  Servedark soy sauce with red meat and light soysauce with chicken or seafood.  Because of itshigh sodium level, it should be used spar-ingly if you are watching your salt intake.
Tofu, made from coagulating soy milk
until it forms curds, is available in soft, firm,and extra-firm consistencies, depending onhow much liquid was left in the pressedcurds.  Tofu can be used in salads, soups,and stir-fried dishes.
Nuts and Seeds
Nuts are high in fat and calories, but takenin moderation they can be part of a health-ful diet.  Nuts are not only flavorful, but,ounce for ounce, also full of nutrients. 
Most nuts are seeds or the dried fruit
from trees.  Peanuts, which are commonlythought of as nuts, are actually legumes.  Theybelong to the same family as peas and beans.
The word “nut” can be confusing.  The
term originally referred to an edible kernelsurrounded by a hard shell.  In its mostscientific definition, the term now refers toa single-seed fruit with the seed surroundedby a dry, tough fruit.  This definition worksfor hazelnuts, beechnuts, and chestnuts,but it does not “fit” almonds and walnuts(because their surrounding fruits aretheoretically edible) or peanuts (which arelegumes).  Adding to the confusion, Brazilnuts and pine nuts are not nuts, either.They are actually seeds, and sunflower seedsare actually fruits.High-Protein Foods 333
“SOY” MANYPRODUCTS TO CHOOSE FROM
Soybean-based products take many forms.  Besides oil that is pressed from soy-
beans, soy food products include the following:
Miso —Miso is a salty, strong-flavored paste made by fermenting soybean
meal and a grain, such as rice or wheat.  It is used as a flavor enhancer and thicken-ing agent in many Asian dishes.  Colors range from light yellow to dark orange,depending on the type of soybean used to make the miso. 
Soy flour —Many prepared foods include soy flour, which can be made from
whole soybeans or soybean meal.
Soy nuts —Roasted soybeans, commonly eaten as a snack.
Soy sauce —Another product made from fermented soybeans, soy sauce is an
essential condiment and cooking ingredient in Asian cuisine.  To make soy sauce,soybeans or soy meal is mixed with ground wheat.  Fermentation may take 1 to 3months.
Soybean sprouts —As the name suggests, these are germinated soybeans.
They are used in salads and as a garnish.
Soybean milk —Soybean milk is made from soybeans that are soaked, ground,
heated, and then filtered.  Soy milk is a part of many baby formulas for infants whoare lactose-intolerant.  Soy milk can be drunk as a beverage.  Dried soy milk issometimes added to products such as ice cream.
Tempeh —An essential component in Indonesian cooking, tempeh is a meat
substitute that is made from soybeans that are soaked, dehulled, cooked, and thenfermented.  Tempeh can be formed or made into patties.  Tempeh is available inthe United States in health food stores.
Tofu —Made by coagulating the protein from soy beans, tofu is a high-protein
curd that is used in many Asian dishes.  Tofu is sold in blocks and is often used inplace of meat.  It generally has a spongy texture. It can be cooked in a variety ofways to make dressings, dips, and shakes.  It picks up the flavor of marinades andthus will taste like meat in many dishes.
Yuba —A product 
made of the protein-rich skin that forms on the top of soybean milk when heated just to boiling, yuba has a stringy, chewy texture.  It is made of protein and oil and is often used to produce imitationmeat products.
Common soybean
products, such assoy milk, tofu, andfresh soybeansNuts are a versatile food.  They can be
eaten fresh, cooked, and, sometimes, with
their shell.  They are available whole or
chopped, salted and unsalted.  In addition,products made from them include butters,oils, and spreads.
Nutrition
The protein in nuts and seeds lacks anessential amino acid called lysine, whichcan be gained from legumes and animalproducts.  Although nuts are high in calo-
ries for their size, they are also considereda “nutrient-dense” food.  They contain a
lot of nutrients in relation to their calories.
Nuts are also rich in different plant com-
pounds.  Flavonoids, for instance, are foundin all nuts.  These antioxidants help reducethe formation of free radicals in the body thatmay contribute to cancer and cardiovascu-lar disease.  Relative to their size, nuts are alsoamong the best plant sources for protein.
Nuts are generally high in fat.  In most
cases, more than 75 percent of their caloriescomes from fat (the exception being chest-nuts — only 8 percent of the calories arefrom fat).  But, on the plus side, it is the“right kind” of fat.  Most of the fat in nutsis monounsaturated and polyunsaturated,with the exception of the coconut and palmkernel.  Unlike saturated fats (typicallyfound in red meats and dairy products),these fats do not appear to increase bloodcholesterol levels.  In small amounts,monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatsmay actually lower cholesterol levels. 
Watch the salt, however.  Nuts do not
come by that naturally — it is an added fea-ture.  If you need to limit your salt intake,look for products with no added salt.
Selection
Purchase nuts with a clean, uniform appear-ance.  When buying nuts in the shell, look334 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
century, cross-breeding among sweet
almonds created new varieties that include
the California, Mission, Price, Carmel, and
the Nonpareil (the most popular varietytoday).  Since then, approximately 30 addi-tional varieties have been developed andare grown commercially.
Nutritionally, almonds have more
calcium than any other nut and are an excel-lent source of iron, riboflavin, and vitaminE.  More than 60% of the fat comes frommonounsaturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Almonds are available whole (both shelledand unshelled), sliced, slivered, diced, andchopped.  If you buy whole almonds thatare not already blanched, you need toblanch them yourself by pouring boilingwater on them, draining them after aminute, and then pouring cold water onthem, draining again after a minute.  Afterblanching, rub off the skins.  Toastingalmonds before adding them to dishesenhances their flavor and texture.
Servin g Suggestions
The mild flavor of almonds makes them apopular addition to a wide variety of dishes.They are popular as fillings and as ingredi-ents in pastries and other baked goods.  Butalmonds also can be used in sauces, stuffing,and pasta dishes.  A well-known vegetablefor whole, unbroken shells.  To ensure max-
imal freshness, look for nuts that are vacuum-sealed in bags, jars, or other containers.
Stora ge
Because of their high fat content, nuts andseeds should be stored in dark, cool, dryconditions in closed glass or plastic con-tainers to prevent rancidity.  Unshelled nuts
keep better than shelled nuts, which can
become rancid in a few weeks unless frozen.Most unshelled nuts will keep 2 months toa year in the refrigerator or a year or morein the freezer.
Safety Issues
Allergies to nuts are one of the most com-mon kinds of food allergies.  Symptoms ofan allergic reaction include nasal conges-tion, hives, itching, swelling, wheezing orshortness of breath, nausea, upset stomach,cramps, heartburn, gas or diarrhea, light-headedness, or fainting.  If you suspect thatyou have any food allergies, see an allergistfor a careful evaluation.
The following pages are an overview of
nuts and seeds available, along with tips toinclude them in your meals.
Almond
Although almonds are native to the warmerregions of western Asia and northern Africa,they grow well in California, where 99 per-cent of domestic almonds are grown.
The almond fruit is the edible seed of
sweet almond trees.  Almonds are teardrop-shaped and surrounded by a shell and anouter fleshy hull.  They can be either sweetor bitter.  The sweet types have a delicateyet distinctive flavor, but the bitter almondis inedible in its raw form because it con-tains traces of the poison prussic acid, acyanide compound.  During the late 19th
AlmondsA variety of nuts
and seedsdish is green beans amandine, which essen-
tially is green beans topped with slivered
almonds.  Marzipan, a German candy, is
made from sweetened almond paste.Almond oil may be added to salads, andalmond extract or essence may be used as aflavoring in baked goods and drinks. 
Beechnut
Beech trees grow in the temperate forestsof Europe, North America, Asia, and NorthAfrica and can be up to 120 feet tall.Beechnuts are simply the seeds (or nuts)enclosed in prickly burrs that fall to theground in the autumn.  Beechnuts looklike small chestnuts and taste like hazel-nuts.  More than 10 species of beech treesproduce nuts. 
Beechnuts are an excellent source of thi-
amin and riboflavin and a good source of
iron.  Monounsaturated and polyunsatu-
rated fats provide more than 80% of thefat content.
Preparation Tips
The thin coat surrounding each cream-col-ored nut must be removed before it is eaten.High-Protein Foods 335
rich, creamy, and sweet and is a good source
of phosphorus and thiamin and contains
some calcium.  This nut also has a high fat
content, although most of it is unsaturated.
Only after the fruits have fallen to the
ground are they harvested and choppedopen to obtain the nuts.  Because the treesgrow wild in the heart of the Amazon jun-gle, the nuts can be shipped only during therainy season, when streams and rivers arenavigable.  Although the nuts are obtainedonly in Brazil, most are exported, and native
Brazilians rarely eat Brazil nuts.
The Brazil nut is also known as the para
nut, butternut, cream nut, and castanea.Oil from the nut is used to make soap oras an industrial lubricant.
Preparation Tips
Brazil nuts are available as raw, unshellednuts or shelled and roasted or dry-roasted.Because of their high fat content, bothAlthough beechnuts were once used as feed
for farm animals, they were also common-ly eaten during famines.
Servin g Suggestions
Beechnuts taste best roasted, a process thatmellows the flavor of these nuts.  Groundbeechnuts also may be used as a coffee sub-stitute.  In Europe, oil is made from beech-
nuts and is used for cooking. 
Brazil Nut
The Brazil nut grows on an evergreen tree,mainly along the Amazon, Orinoco, andRio Negro rivers of South America.  About6 inches in diameter and resembling acoconut, the fruit of the Brazil nut tree has18 to 20 nuts within its hard shell.  Inside,the triangular nuts are arranged like thewedges of an orange.  It is the white kernelinside this shell that is eaten.  This kernel isshelled and unshelled nuts should be refrig-
erated or frozen to maintain freshness.  Buyonly vacuum-packed nuts to maintain theirfreshness.
Servin g Suggestions
Brazil nuts add a crunchy texture to cakesand breads.  Because of their sweetness, theyare also used in ice cream, cookies, andcandies.  Brazil nuts can be difficult to shell.Keep a nutcracker handy if planning toserve them whole and in the shell, often atradition in many families at holidays.
Cashew Nut
India is the world’s leading producer ofcashew nuts, although other important pro-ducers include Mozambique, Tanzania,Kenya, and Brazil. 
Cashew trees produce a fruit-like stalk
called the cashew apple (even though it is
the shape of a pear).  Attached to the endof the cashew apple is the cashew nut,which has a smooth, ash-colored outer shell.The edible kernel of the nut varies betweenthree-quarters of an inch and an inch inlength.  Its generic name, Anacardium , refers
to a heart shape, but cashews have more ofa kidney shape. 
It is impossible to buy cashews in the
shell because the edible kernel is coveredwith an inner shell, and the space betweenthe inner and outer shells is filled with athick, caustic, toxic oil (related to poison
ivy).  Unshelled, unroasted cashew nuts will336 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
burn the mouth and lips and raise blisters
on the skin.
Nutritionally, cashews are an excellent
source of iron, phosphorus, and zinc anda good source of riboflavin, thiamin, andpotassium.  The primary source of fat incashews is monounsaturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Cashew nuts have a sweet, buttery flavorthat is further enhanced by roasting.Cashews are bought ready to use.  Look forcashews sold in vacuum-packed cans toguarantee maximal freshness.
Servin g Suggestions
Although Americans view the cashew as anut for baking or dipped in chocolate for atreat, it also can be added to stir-fry dishesand salads.  Cashews also can be made intoa delicious nut butter. 
Chestnut
Chestnut trees are found in Asia, Europe,and North America, and their fruit has beenmade popular in the lyrics of a Christmascarol.  The trees that bear chestnuts werefirst cultivated in China about 5,000 yearsago.  Mount Olympus, home to the gods ofancient Greece, was said to have had anabundance of chestnut trees. 
Brazil nuts
Cashew nutsChestnut trees are also long-lived.
Some trees that were grafted more than 500
years ago are still alive.  The trees are also
adaptable to poor land.  The nuts are har-vested by hand once they have fallen fromthe burr, the name for the spiny outer cov-ering.  T rees typically start bearing nuts afterabout 25 years.
Chestnuts can range in size from a half
inch to more than an inch, depending on
the variety.  They have one rounded sideand one flat side and one rounded end and
one pointed end.  The roasted kernel is soft,
meaty, and sweet.
The common American chestnut,
native to the eastern United States, oncedominated the forests of Maine to Georgia.But this tree is now nearly extinct becauseof a tree blight caused by a fungus.  Today,only a small number of trees survive.
Preparation Tips
The most traditional use of chestnuts is toroast them whole, with shell and skin, andto peel and eat them while they are still warm.Before roasting, cut an “x” into the flat sideof the nuts to prevent them from exploding.Chestnuts also can be boiled or steamed. 
Servin g Suggestions
Use chestnuts as an ingredient in stuffing,casseroles, and baked goods.  A glazed typeof candy (marrons glacés) is made from sug-ared chestnuts.  Ground chestnuts also canbe used as a coffee and chocolate substitute.
Gink go Nut
The ginkgo nut grows on what is considered
the oldest known living species of tree.  It hasremained virtually unchanged for 250 millionyears and is considered a living fossil.
The ginkgo nut is the seed of an ined-
ible, apricot-like fruit that is well knownfor its strong, some might say offensive,
odor.  Nuts borne from female trees havehard, buff-colored shells that are pointedon either end.  The meat inside has thesame shape and color, is soft, and has adelicate, sweet taste.  Although the ginkgotree is commonly grown in U.S. citiesbecause it is resistant to air pollution, manypeople are unaware that it bears nuts andthat they can be eaten.
In Asia, ginkgo nuts and the fan-
shaped leaves from the tree ( Ginkgo biloba
is the scientific name) have been used intraditional medicine for thousands ofyears.  Extracts and powders derived fromginkgo leaves are among the top-sellingherbal supplements sold in the UnitedStates, where they are promoted as beinga memory aid.
Scientists in the United States are study-
ing the efficacy of ginkgo extracts, butresults so far have been inconclusive.Additionally, because scientists do not knowhow the extract works or its potential sideeffects, they are not recommending gink-go extracts be used for medicinal purposesat this time.High-Protein Foods 337
HazelnutsRoasted chestnuts
From a nutrition standpoint, ginkgo
nuts are an excellent source of phospho-rus, potassium, copper, thiamin, and niacin.
Preparation Tips
Before ginkgo nuts can be consumed orcooked, the hard shells must be removed.The kernels must then be soaked in hotwater to loosen the thin skins.  Fresh, dried,or canned ginkgo nuts are widely availablein Asian grocery stores. 
Servin g Suggestions
Ginkgo nuts can be eaten as a snack afterthey are roasted.  They are used in manyAsian main dishes and desserts.  Ginkgonuts are a key ingredient in an egg-custard-like dish called chawanmushi. 
Hazelnut
The United States produces about 9,000tons of unshelled hazelnuts, and Oregonand Washington account for 5 percent ofthe entire world’s production.  The grape-sized nuts have a thick, woody, brownishred shell that readily separates from the ker-nel.  Nuts grow from leafy husks that openas the nut ripens.  The nuts begin to dropfrom the trees in August.  In September orOctober, they are swept up, washed, andthen dried.  They are sorted for size andthen sold for processing.  Hazelnuts arereferred to by a variety of names, includ-ing filbert or cobnut. 
There are 10 major species of hazelnut
trees.  The most commonly grown are theEuropean, the American, and the T urkish
hazelnut.  Various hybrids are based on
these types.  These hybrids include theWinkler, Duchilly, and the Barcelona,
which is thought by many hazelnut fanciers
to produce the finest nuts. 
Nutritionally speaking, hazelnuts are
an excellent source of iron, magnesium,phosphorus, potassium, and thiamin anda good source of niacin.  Monounsaturatedfat is the primary source of fat in hazelnuts.
Preparation Tips
The hazelnut kernel is sweet.  It is wrappedin a thin, slightly bitter-tasting, brown skin.This skin must be removed before the nutsare used.  Heat the shelled nuts in a 350°Fahrenheit oven for 10 to 15 minutes untilthe skin begins to flake.  Then, wrap thewarm nuts in a tea towel and rub them with
the towel after about 5 minutes to remove
the skin.
Servin g Suggestions
Hazelnuts can be eaten raw or they can be
roasted.  Chopped hazelnuts add crunchto salads, soups, sauces, breads, cakes, andcookies.  Finely ground nuts can be usedas a replacement for flour.  Hazelnut paste,made by grinding the nuts to a fine butterand mixing with sugar, is used for bakeryfillings and toppings.
A fragrant oil made from pressed hazel-
nuts adds a nutty flavor to dressings, sauces,
pastries, and coffee.
Lotus Seed
The lotus plant and especially its flowershave been used as a motif in the arts of
the ancient cultures of India, China, and
Egypt for centuries.  Although many peo-ple know it is grown for its ornamentalflowers, the lotus plant also has edibleroots and seeds.  The creamy seeds add amild flavor to cuisine in many Asiancountries.
In addition to the seeds, the roots of
the lotus plant can be eaten.  When sliced
and cooked, the light brown, starchy rootshave a crisp texture.  They are commonly
used as a vegetable in Asian dishes.  Eventhe leaves of the plant may be eaten.  Youngleaves can be eaten raw.  Mature leaves maybe used to wrap rice, meat, and fruit dishesbefore they are steamed.
Lotus seeds are referred to by a variety
of names.  Common ones include Indianlotus, hasu, and nelumbium.
Preparation Tips
You can most readily find lotus seeds inAsian supermarkets, where they are sold338 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
fresh, dried, and canned.  Fresh seeds are
sold with the seed coat attached or removed,
but both types spoil quickly.  The seed coats
must be removed before the nut can beeaten.
Servin g Suggestions
Lotus seeds can be eaten raw.  However,
most commonly, they are used in cooking.Or, they are candied and eaten as a snack oradded to pastries as a filling.  In Asian cook-
ing, they may be stewed with poultry, addedto stir-fry meals, or cooked in water to makea dessert.
Macadamia Nut
Native to Australia, the macadamia tree wasnamed for the naturalist Dr. JohnMacAdam.  According to legend, he wasthe first to find the nuts edible.
The macadamia nut is enclosed in a
very hard, brownish shell, and the kernelis off-white in color.  Each nut is about halfan inch to an inch in diameter and isenclosed in a thin, fleshy husk.  This huskopens as the nut matures.  The slightly
Macadamia nutssweet, creamy, rich flavor of the nutmeat
has acquired a “gourmet” reputation and a
hefty asking price.
Macadamia nuts have the highest fat
and calorie content of any nut, but they arean excellent source of magnesium, copper,and thiamin and a good source of iron andniacin.  The fat in the macadamia nut isprimarily monounsaturated fat.
The tree that bears macadamia nuts was
introduced to some regions of the UnitedStates in the 1880s.  It was not until the
1930s, however, that a real consumer audi-
ence made the macadamia industry possi-ble.  Historically, Hawaii has supplied 90percent of the world’s macadamia nuts.Growers in California and Florida also havebegun contributing to domestic produc-tion.  Macadamia nuts are also grown inBrazil, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Venezuela,Jamaica, South Africa, and Samoa. 
Preparation Tips
Because of their extremely hard shell (whichtakes up to 300 pounds of pressure to crack)and high oil content, macadamia nuts areusually sold shelled in vacuum-packed con-tainers.  The nuts can become rancid quick-ly because of their high oil content.Refrigerating them, however, can extendtheir shelf life up to 2 months.
Servin g Suggestions
Macadamia nuts may be bought raw orroasted, plain, chocolate-covered, or salted,and whole or chopped.  They are great bythemselves as a snack.  Choppedmacadamia nuts add a nice texture andflavor to salads, rice dishes, curries, cookies,cakes, candies, and ice cream.  The nutsalso can be ground into a creamy butterand used as a spread.  Oil made from thenuts can be added to salads or used forcooking.High-Protein Foods 339
Pecan Nut
Belonging to the same family as walnuts,
pecan trees can be found growing wild fromIllinois to Texas and Maryland to Florida.In fact, more than 100 varieties of pecansare cultivated in the United States.Commercial cultivation of pecans, however,is limited to warm states.  Georgia producesmore than a third of the total U.S. pro-duction, which totals about 200,000 tonsof unshelled pecans annually. 
Pecans are one of the most widely
cultivated nuts in the world.  The nut itselfis elongated and wrinkled, resembling awalnut, and has a buttery flavor.  The shellsurrounding pecans is shiny, brown, andeasily cracked.  Most of the fat in pecans isunsaturated.  In addition, pecans are anexcellent source of many nutrients, includ-ing phosphorus, thiamin, copper, and zinc,and a good source of iron and potassium.More than half of the fat in pecans ismonounsaturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Unshelled pecans are most widely availableduring the autumn months, although pack-aged, shelled nuts can be found in grocerystores year-round.  Tightly wrapped, unshellednuts can be stored in a cool, dry place for upto 6 months; shelled nuts can be kept in an air-tight container in a freezer for up to 2 years.
Servin g Suggestions
Most people know and love pecan pie, asugary treat popular in the South.  Pecanscan be eaten raw or roasted as a snack.  Theyadd a rich flavor to breads, muffins, cakes,and other baked goods or can be sprinkledon cereal or many other types of food.  Acandy with Southern roots is pecan praline,made from sugared pecans.  Oil pressedfrom pecans may be used for cooking orfor salads, but it is expensive.
Pecan nuts
Pecan piePistachio Nut
Pistachio nuts grow in clusters on the pis-
tachio tree, which grows wild throughoutcentral and western Asia and is cultivated inwarmer areas of the world.
The nuts are enclosed in fleshy husks.
The nut itself has a hard, thin, tan shell thatpartially splits open when the nut is ripe.The shells may be dyed red or blanchedwhite by distributors to hide imperfections.Inside the shell is a smooth, pale-green ker-nel wrapped in a fine brownish skin.  This
kernel has a delicate and sweet flavor, whichlends itself to desserts. 
Shelled and unshelled nuts should be
kept in an airtight container in the refrig-erator, where they will keep for 3 months.
Pistachios are available year-round.
From a nutrition perspective, pistachios
are an excellent source of iron, magnesium,
phosphorus, potassium, and thiamin.  The
main source of fat in pistachios is monoun-saturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Pistachios with fully closed shells are imma-ture and should be avoided.  The nuts canbe eaten as a snack either raw or roasted.In addition, they can be added to puddings,cakes, candies, and luncheon meats.  Or,chopped nuts can be added to stuffing,pâtés, and sauces.Pistachio nuts
Sesame seeds340 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
kled over the tops of buns.  They are also
used on bread, rolls, and crackers.  Sesame
seeds are mainly a condiment in the United
States, but they can be added to stews for adelicate, nutlike flavor.  In cuisine of MiddleEastern countries, sesame seeds are the mainingredient, along with honey and almonds,in a confection called halvah.  Groundsesame seeds are also made into butter.  Inthe Middle East, this is called tahini and isa popular addition to sauces and maindishes.  Chickpeas and tahini can be com-bined to make hummus, a popular part ofMiddle Eastern cuisine. 
Squash Seed
Cultivated worldwide, squash probably wasfirst gathered by indigenous people around8000
B.C., primarily for its seeds.  European
settlers arriving in North America found it
was a common crop grown by American
Indians.
Although most people are familiar with
eating the flesh of squash, the seeds ofsquash by themselves are both tasty andnutritious.  The most popular squash seedeaten in the United States is the pumpkinseed, which is flat with one rounded endand one end that tapers to a point.  Theseeds are off-white and approximatelythree-quarters of an inch long.  Theyenclose a green kernel that is delicatelynutty in flavor.  In Mexico, pumpkin seedsare known as pepitas and are popular inmany dishes.
The seeds of winter squash are also
commonly eaten.  The plants are harvestedwhen the fruits and, hence, the seeds arefully ripe.  Summer squash, in contrast, iseaten before it and its seeds are fully ripe.Seeds from acorn squash, buttercup squash,and butternut squash are also edible.  Theseeds are a healthful addition to your diet,Servin g Suggestions
In Asian and Mediterranean cuisine, it iscommon to find pistachios in meat andpoultry dishes as well as in pastries.  Baklava,the popular Middle Eastern dessert madewith the thin pastry called filo, containspistachios as a main ingredient, along withhoney and walnuts. 
Safflower Seed
The safflower plant has been cultivated inIndia, China, Persia, and Egypt for centuriesand it was only introduced in the UnitedStates in 1925.  India still remains thelargest producer of safflower seed.
Common names for safflower seeds
include safflower, false saffron, and saffron
thistle.  Safflower seeds are about a quarterof an inch long and elongated.
They are an excellent source of iron,
magnesium, thiamin, and riboflavin and agood source of potassium and niacin.
Preparation Tips
Safflower seeds are enclosed in a fibrousseed coat that must be removed before theycan be eaten or pressed for oil.  Up to 40percent of the weight of the seeds is oil.Servin g Suggestions
The seeds of the safflower are eaten friedor roasted.  They are one of the primary
ingredients in an Indian dish called chutney.
The plant’s shoots are also edible and ofteneaten as salad greens.  
Sesame Seed
Sesame seeds are small, oval, and flat andhave a paper-thin, edible hull.  They may bewhite, yellow, brown, red, or black.Lighter-colored seeds are considered prefer-able to dark seeds. 
Sesame seeds are 40 to 60 percent oil
by weight.  They are an excellent sourceof iron, thiamin, riboflavin, and phos-phorus and a good source of potassium.
Polyunsaturated fat is the primary sourceof fat.
Preparation Tips
Available hulled, unhulled, or ground,sesame seeds have a rich, nutlike flavorwhen roasted.  Hulled seeds should be storedin the refrigerator because they quickly turnrancid.
Servin g Suggestions
As anyone who has eaten a hamburgerknows, sesame seeds are commonly sprin-Sunflower seeds
Roasted seeds from
squash are also edible.High-Protein Foods 341
being an excellent source of iron, phos-
phorus, and potassium and a good source
of thiamin and riboflavin.  A little less than
half the fat comes from polyunsaturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Squash and pumpkin seeds are sold plainor salted, dried or roasted, unhulled orhulled.  You also can make your own snackwhen hollowing out your Halloween jack-o’-lantern or cooking your winter squash.Scoop out the seeds, rinse them, dry them,and then toast them in the oven until theyare golden brown.  Soaking them in saltwater before baking adds flavor.
Servin g Suggestions
Seeds can be added to salads, sauces, andpasta dishes to add a crunchy texture or tosoups for additional texture.
Sunflower Seed
With more than a hundred species, the sun-flower genus is thought to be native toeither western North America or SouthAmerica, although it now grows worldwide.The United States and the former coun-tries of the Soviet Union are among thelargest producers of sunflower seeds.
Sunflower seeds are about a quarter of
an inch long, angular, and grayish green,tan, or black.  They are enclosed in thinshells.  Often, these shells are striped inblack and white.  T wo main varieties of sun-flower are cultivated commercially.  TheRussian variety is grown mainly for oilbecause the seeds contain more than 40percent oil by weight.  The North Americanvariety has larger seeds and is grown forhuman consumption and for bird food.
Although high in calories and fat, sun-
flower seeds contain mostly unsaturatedfat.  In addition, they are a rich source ofServin g Suggestions
Sunflower seeds can be eaten raw, roasted,and salted or unsalted and are terrific snacksby themselves.  They also are excellent addi-tions to salads, stuffing, or yogurt.  Groundseeds can be combined with flour to makebreads, as is done in Portugal and Russia.The seeds also can be roasted to make acoffee-like drink.  A note to cooks:  theseeds may turn green when cooked. 
Walnut
Walnut is the common name for about 20species of deciduous trees that include thehickory and pecan tree.  The two mostcommon species are the black walnut and theEnglish, also known as the Persian, walnut. 
The fleshy green fruit of the black
walnut encapsulates the nut and cushionsit when it falls from the tree.  Effort isrequired to pry the edible kernel from thenut’s thick, woody shell.  The inside of thefruit may stain your hands.nutrients, including folic acid, niacin, potas-
sium, and zinc.  They are also high in fiber.
Sunflower seeds are best kept in a cool, dryplace.  If shelled, they should be stored inthe refrigerator to prevent rancidity.
Preparation Tips
Sunflower seeds usually are shelled beforethey are added to dishes.  Shelling by handcan be difficult, although soaking helps.Most people simply buy commerciallyshelled sunflower seeds. 342 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
be difficult, but commercially shelled
walnuts are readily available.  Toasting wal-
nuts enhances their flavor, helps maintain
crispness, and makes them easier to chop.
Servin g Suggestions
Walnuts are a versatile cooking ingredientthat can be added to salads, pilafs, cookies,muffins, breads, cakes, and ice cream.Whole young nuts can be pickled in vine-gar.  Walnuts also can be pressed to make anoil that is typically used in salads.
Walnuts also have a variety of nonculi-
nary uses.  The shells are used as an anti-skid agent for tires and as blasting grit.Ground nutshells are sometimes added tocommercial spices as a filler.
be plump, meaty, and crisp.  Unshelledwalnuts can be stored in a cool, dry place forup to 3 months.  Shelled kernels can berefrigerated in a tightly covered containerfor up to 6 months.  Shelling walnuts can
Walnuts
The traditional Waldorf salad is
made with walnuts.The kernel of the English walnut,
however, is more easily removed from its
shell, which is generally thinner and easier
to crack.  In addition, the husks of Englishwalnuts separate when the fruit is mature,allowing the nut to drop out.  Partly forthese reasons, the English walnut is themore commercially cultivated species. 
Nutritionally, walnuts are an excel-
lent source of  phosphorus, zinc, copper,
and thiamin and a good source of ironand potassium.  More than 70 percent of
the fat comes from polyunsaturated fat.
Preparation Tips
Walnuts purchased in the shell should befree of cracks or holes.  Shelled nuts shouldThis Page Intentionally Left Blank345
Dairy Foods
Includes :Milk, Yogurt, and Cheese 
Some people do not include enough
dairy foods in their diets.  One reason isthe mistaken belief that all dairy productsare high in fat.  Some are, but there is anabundance of low-fat and nonfat dairyproducts, from milk to yogurt to cheese. 
Other people do not consume dairy
foods because of intolerance to milk sugaror allergy to milk proteins.  However, thosewith intolerance to milk often do not needto follow a diet that is completely milk-free(see sidebar:  Lactose Intolerance, page 347).
People with allergy to milk must avoid dairyfoods and may want to get help with adjust-ing their diets to ensure nutritional ade-quacy (see sidebar:  Milk Allergy:  HiddenIngredients, page 349).Milk is a bundle of nutrients, all contained in a nondescript white liquid.Although milk’s presence as a beverage at meals may not be as popular
as it used to be, milk is used in many products that are consumed through-
out the day.
On the Food Guide Pyramid, milk and dairy products are placed
near the top because, although they are part of a healthful diet, theyshould be consumed in moderation.  Adults should consume 2 serv-ings of low-fat or nonfat dair y products daily; 
1 serving equals 1 cup of milk or yogurt or 
1 1/2 ounces of cheese.  Children and
pregnant or lactating women shouldadd an extra serving each day.  Milk
and other dairy foods are rich in calcium, a mineral important for 
developing strong bones and teeth and for
nerve transmission.  They are also an importantsource of many vitamins and minerals.  Large quan-
tities of these foods, however, are not needed to ensure that
you are getting adequate amounts of these nutrients.  Just three8-ounce glasses of skim milk, for example, provide nearly all of the
calcium you need each day. 
Another reason people do not consume
dairy products is the growing consumptionof soda pop.  The average American drinksabout a half gallon of milk a week but, incomparison, about 11 cans — or a gallon— of soda pop a week.  Taking calcium sup-plements or eating calcium-enriched foodcan help you obtain needed calcium, but dairyfoods are an easy way to get the calcium andother essential nutrients you need.
Basics
Milk can be consumed in its fluid form, ina more solid form (such as yogurt), as cheese,or as a major ingredient that is added toother foods.  Dairy cases now abound withmilk-based products and their reduced-fatand nonfat versions.  The cornucopia ofdairy products includes the following:
Fluid milk — Although cow’s milk is
generally consumed in the United States,other cultures use milk from goats, camels,llamas, reindeer, sheep, and water buffalo.Milk is a staple in diets worldwide.
Dried and concentrated milk —
These products include powdered milk,evaporated milk, and condensed milk.
Cheese — Cheese is made by coagu-
lating and draining milk or cream or a com-bination of both.
Yogurt — Yogurt is made by adding
bacteria to milk to ferment it. 
Ice cream and other dairy desserts —
Ice cream and other frozen desserts are346 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Nutrition
Milk and dairy products provide many of
the key nutrients needed daily, particularly
calcium (for more specific information, referto milk in the nutrient table on page 472). 
Milk and dairy products also supply
high-quality protein.  Because of its animalsource, milk protein is complete — mean-ing it provides a sufficient amount of thenine essential amino acids (see Chapter 2,Protein, page 23). 
Dairy products are also naturally rich
in B vitamins and most of the minerals con-
sidered to be essential in the diet, includ-ing calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, zinc,iodine, and selenium.  In addition, milkalso contains several vitamins and mineralsthat have been added to meet the require-ments of the Food and Drug Administration.Low-fat and nonfat milk may be fortifiedwith vitamin A because this fat-solublevitamin is lost when the milk fat is removed.Vitamin D is added to all milk to help thebody better use calcium.
Milk also is a good source of carbohy-
drates.  With the exception of cheeses andbutter, milk products are higher in carbo-hydrates than protein or fat.  Milk’s carbo-hydrate is lactose, a sugar unique to milkthat is actually two sugars (glucose andgalactose) linked together.  Food scientists
call this type of sugar a “disaccharide.”
Lactose is not as sweet as other sugars.
It helps the body absorb calcium and phos-phorus and may even help in the growthof friendly bacteria needed in the intestines.In addition, galactose, one of the sugars inlactose, is a vital part of brain and nervetissue.  It is released when the body digestslactose.  Lactose is a bit of a paradox, how-ever.  Although it has these beneficialproperties, many people have difficultydigesting milk (see sidebar:  LactoseIntolerance, page 347).Pasteurization kills bacteria that have
been responsible for major plagues such as
tuberculosis, polio, scarlet fever, and typhoid
fever.  It is also advantageous because itdestroys many of the bacteria that causespoilage and many of the enzymes that pro-mote rancidity.  Pasteurization, therefore,increases both shelf life and safety of milk.
A common term that consumers see
when purchasing milk is “homogenized.”
Homogenization is a process introduced inthe 1950s in which fat globules in the milk
are broken down so they are evenly dis-
persed throughout the milk.  Most milk at
the supermarket is homogenized.
During homogenization, milk is forced
through a small opening at high pressure.The product has a smoother, richer textureand a whiter color than nonhomogenizedmilk.simply milk or cream to which sugar, fla-
vorings, and, often, eggs have been added. 
Cream and sour cream — Cream is the
fat that rises to the top of the surface inunprocessed milk.  Sour cream is simply creamthat has been fermented or thickened.  Thecream is usually “soured” by adding bacteria to
it, much in the way that yogurt is created.
Butter — This yellowish substance is
essentially fat that has been separated fromcream.  For that reason, it is discussed inFats, Oils, & Sweeteners, page 389. 
Processin g of Milk and Milk Products
Virtually all milk and milk used in dairyproducts is pasteurized.  Pasteurization is
a process invented by French chemist Louis
Pasteur.  It uses heat to destroy harmfulbacteria in milk, but it retains the nutri-tional value of milk.
The processing of milk begins at the farm.Despite all the nutrients in milk, the
nutritional advantages of dairy productsmust be weighed against the potentialhealth drawbacks of two key components inmilk:  sodium and fat.  Whole milk, cream,and cheeses contain substantial amounts offat, especially saturated fat.  These fats addcalories and have been tied to higher cho-lesterol levels and cardiovascular disease (seeChapter 3, Coronary Artery Disease, page61).  However, it is important to note thatlow-fat and nonfat milk varieties are avail-able and are significantly lower in fat thanwhole milk.  In addition, depending onhow much is consumed, milk or productsmade from milk may be a major source ofsodium — a special concern for anyonefollowing a low-sodium diet.Dairy Foods 347
wrapped, these foods will pick up smells in
the refrigerator, possibly leaving them withan undesirable taste.
Cheeses such as cottage cheese, ricotta,
and cream cheese will keep for 1 week afterthe sell-by date.  Soft cheeses — such asBrie, Camembert, Muenster, and mozzarella— and blue-vein cheeses can keep from 1to 3 weeks.  Semi-firm and hard cheeses,such as cheddar and Monterey Jack, willkeep as long or longer.  Generally, theharder the cheese, the longer it will remainfresh when carefully stored.
Shredded cheese will not keep as long
because it has more surface exposed to theair.  Soft cheese that has mold on it shouldbe discarded.  Firm cheese that has mold cansometimes be used as long as 1/2 inch to 1SelectionUnless dried or canned, milk and dairy prod-ucts are perishable.  For that reason, mosthave an expiration date printed on the pack-aging.  The date often states, “Sell by . . .”and is a good indicator of freshness.  Look forthe date before buying and before consum-ing a product.  Usually, dairy products willkeep about a week beyond that date. 
Stora ge
Keep milk in the coldest part of your refrig-erator.  Avoid storing milk in the refriger-ator door unless it has a special compart-ment designed to keep the milk colder thanin the rest of the refrigerator.
Keep yogurt and fresh cheeses in air-
tight containers in the refrigerator. LooselyLACTOSE INTOLERANCE
As many as 50 million Americans are estimated to have lactoseintolerance — an inability to adequately digest ordinaryamounts of dairy products such as milk and ice cream. 
Worldwide, nearly 70 percent of the adult population is
thought to be lactose intolerant, and the condition is verycommon among American Indians and those of Asian,African, Hispanic, and Mediterranean descent. 
Lactose is the sugar that is naturally present in milk and
milk products.  It must be broken down by lactase (an enzymefound in the intestine) before the body can use it.  If there isnot enough lactase, undigested milk sugar remains in theintestine.  Bacteria in the colon then ferment this sugar.  Gas, cramping, and diarrhea can follow. 
Most of us begin to lose intestinal lactase as we age.
However, this occurs to varying degrees.  Thus, people withlactase deficiency vary in their ability to comfortably digestmilk and milk products. 
As obvious as the symptoms of lactose intolerance may be,
it is not easily diagnosed from the symptoms alone.  Manyother conditions, including stomach flu and irritable bowelsyndrome, can cause similar symptoms. See your physician to determine whether you are lactose
intolerant.  Measurement of the hydrogen in your breathafter you have taken in lactose is a useful test because largeamounts of hydrogen indicate that lactose is not being fullydigested and that you are probably intolerant. 
Persons with milk allergies should avoid milk, but those
with lactose intolerance often do not need to follow a diet that
is completely lactose-free.  The following suggestions may help:
• Avoid eating or drinking large servings of dairy productsat one time.  (Several smaller servings over the course of afew hours are much easier to digest.)• Drink milk or eat dairy products with a meal.• Choose hard or aged cheeses, such as Swiss or cheddar,over fresh varieties.  Hard cheeses have smaller amounts of lactose and are more likely to be tolerated.• Take lactase tablets or drops, such as Lactaid or DairyEase.  These types of products contain the enzyme that breaksdown lactose, reducing the amount that your body mustdigest on its own. 
For help with meal planning, you may want to see a
registered dietitian.inch of cheese near the molded spot has been
cut away and discarded.  If any milk or milk
product has a strange odor, throw it out. 
Safety Issues
Some small markets or independent farm-
ers still sell raw milk.  Because it has notbeen pasteurized, this milk may containgerms that make you ill.  For that reason,the sale of raw milk is often prohibited bylaw, depending on location.  
For some people, proteins in cow’s milk
may trigger allergic reactions.  Whey pro-teins (beta-lactoglobulin and beta-lact-albumin) and casein are the primary pro-teins that trigger allergic reactions.Symptoms of a milk allergy may includenasal congestion, hives, itching, swelling,wheezing, shortness of breath, nausea, upsetReduced-fat milk — Often referred to
as two percent, this type of milk has had
some milk fat removed from it.  T wo per-
cent reflects the amount of fat in the milk byweight.  It does not refer to the percentageof calories from fat.  One cup of 2 percentmilk has 130 calories and 5 grams of fat.
Low-fat milk — Also known as 1 per-
cent milk, this type of milk contains about100 calories and 2.6 grams of fat in 1 cup. 
Nonfat or skim milk — Skim milk,
which contains less than 0.5 percent milkfat, is now more often labeled nonfat milk.It contains the same amount of nutrients,such as calcium, as its higher fat counter-parts, but it has no fat and just 90 calories.
Buttermilk — Buttermilk was once the
residue left from churning butter, buttoday’s version is made from adding a lacticacid culture to milk.  The result is far lessrich than the original “natural” buttermilk,but it still retains the thick texture andacidic tang of old.  Some manufacturersadd flecks of butter for an authentic lookor stabilizers to prevent separation.  Becauseof its name, buttermilk may sound highin fat.  Yet, in most instances it is not.Buttermilk derives its fat content from themilk used to make it, and in the UnitedStates low-fat or nonfat milk is used mostoften.  Calories and fat in buttermilkdepend on what type of milk was used tomake it.  Check the label for fat content.
Acidophilus milk — Normally killed
during pasteurization, the healthy bacteriaculture Lactobacillus acidophilus is reintro-
duced into whole, low-fat, or nonfat milkto create sweet acidophilus milk.  In a/Bmilk, both acidophilus and bifidobacteriacultures are added.  Acidophilus occursnaturally in the body and is found mainlyin the small intestine.  Many factors canalter the level of this intestinal bacterium,including diet, alcohol consumption, illness,348 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
stomach, cramps, heartburn, gas or diarrhea,
light-headedness, and fainting.
It is easy to confuse a milk allergy with
another common health concern related todairy foods — lactose intolerance.  Lactoseintolerance (see page 347) also can lead tonausea, vomiting, cramping, and diarrhea.However, if you have lactose intolerance,you usually can eat small amounts of dairyfood without problems.  In contrast, a tiny
amount of a food to which you are allergiccan trigger a reaction.
If you suspect that you have any food
allergies, see your physician.  You may thenbe referred to an allergist for a careful eval-uation.  This generally includes a medicalhistory, physical examination, and skin orblood testing.  If the diagnosis is a milk aller-gy, it is essential to eliminate milk and foodsmade with milk from your diet (see sidebar:Milk Allergy:  Hidden Ingredients, page 349). 
Milk
Milk has a wide variety of uses and thus isone of the most basic items found inkitchens worldwide.  It is consumed as abeverage, poured on cereals, and used inmany different ways in cooking.  In responseto consumers with different nutritionaldemands, modern food science has mademany different types of fluid milk available.
Although milk can be less inviting to
people who are concerned with their weightbecause of its high fat content, some typesof milk contain no fat at all.
Whole milk — Containing 3 1/2 per-
cent milk fat, this type of milk is often sim-ply labeled “milk” or “vitamin D milk” ifthat particular vitamin has been added.  Ofall types of milk, whole milk is among thehighest in fat and calories.  One cup has 150calories and approximately 8 grams of fat. 
and medications.  Alterations in levels can
sometimes lead to poor digestion, diarrhea,
and bloating.  Drinking acidophilus milk
products may reduce intestinal infectionand diarrhea and improve milk digestionand tolerance.  Studies are under way toevaluate whether these bacteria can helpregulate blood cholesterol levels and preventcancer.  Calories and fat in acidophilus milkdepend on what type of milk was culturedwith the acidophilus bacterium.  If wholemilk was used, for example, acidophilus-treated milk contains the same amount offat and calories as whole milk. 
Lactose-reduced and lactose-free milk —
These products are tailored to people whohave trouble digesting lactose, a sugarfound in milk.  An enzyme called lactaseis added during the processing of this milk.The result is that lactose in the milk isreduced by at least 70 percent (lactose-reduced) or up to 99.9 percent (lactose-free).Calories and fat in lactose-reduced and lac-tose-free milk depend on what type of milkwas cultured.  Dairy Foods 349
Flavored milks are higher in calories than
their unflavored counterparts.  Calories and
fat in flavored milk range from 150 calories
and no fat for 1 cup of chocolate milk madefrom skim milk to more than 210 caloriesand 8 grams of fat for 1 cup of wholechocolate milk.  When purchasing flavoredmilks, look for products that are made fromskim or reduced-fat milk.  Avoid thoselabeled “premium.”  They often are madefrom whole milk, which is high in fat.
Preparation Tips
It is easy to overcook milk when heating it.When milk is heated to a temperature thatis too high, its proteins clump together andcurds appear in the milk.  When heatingmilk, always use low heat and stir frequently.Using a double boiler when heating milkalso helps prevent overheating. 
Anyone who has ever had homemade
hot cocoa knows that heated milk candevelop a “skin” (a thickened surface).  Aneasy way to prevent this is to mix a littlecornstarch into the milk before heating it.Ultrapasteurized milk (UHT) — This
milk has been popular in Europe for many
years, but it has only recently appeared in
U.S. supermarkets.  The “ultra-heat treat-ment” (UHT) sterilizes milk by quicklyheating it, sometimes as high as 300 degreesFahrenheit, and then quickly cooling itbefore packaging it in vacuum-packed, asep-tic containers.  UHT milk can be storedfor 2 to 3 months without refrigeration,until opened.  Once opened, UHT milkshould be refrigerated and quickly con-sumed.  It can spoil, but unlike other milk,it does not curdle as a warning sign ofspoilage.  The ultra-heat process makes themilk taste slightly scalded, but it is thoughtthat the treatment does not substantiallyaffect the nutrient value.  The amount offat and calories in UHT milk depends onthe type of milk from which it was made.
Flavored milk — Flavorings, sugar, or
other sweeteners are added to fluid milk.Although some milk is flavored with straw-berry, vanilla, and even peanut butterflavorings, chocolate is used most commonly.If you are allergic to milk, it is impor-tant to check the labels of the foodsyou eat.  Milk or components of milkare common ingredients in many dif-ferent foods, some of which you mightnot be aware of. 
Foods that likely contain milk
include the following:• Butter, including artificial butterflavor, butter fat, ghee, buttermilk • Chocolate, caramel, nougat• Cheese, including cream cheese,cottage cheese, and cheese curds• Simplesse (a fat substitute)• Luncheon meats, hot dogs, and
sausages• Cream, including half-and-half,nondairy creamers (containing casein)• Margarine• Yogurt• So-called nondairy items, includingcoffee lighteners, whipped toppings,imitation cheeses, and frozen or soft-serve dessert items.  These may containcasein, a milk protein. 
Ingredients on the label that indi-
cate milk or a dairy product is in theproduct include the following:• Lactalbumin
• Lactoglobulin• Rennet casein• Lactose• Casein• Hydrolysates (casein hydrolysates,milk protein hydrolysates, proteinhydrolysates, whey or whey proteinhydrolysates)• Evaporated, dry, or milk solids• Whey• So-called natural flavorings (checkwith manufacturer for more informa-tion)
MILKALLERGY :  H IDDEN INGREDIENTS350 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
milk forms of powdered milk are good for
up to 6 months.  Reseal opened packages
and store in a cool, dark, and dry place to
prevent the product from absorbingmoisture in the air.  All opened packagesand skim milk, and eventually only skimmilk.  If you dislike skim milk, 1 percent
or 2 percent milk is a reasonable option,
especially if it keeps you drinking milk.
Buttermilk can be substituted for cream
in many recipes:  a half cup of buttermilkhas 1 gram of fat, but the same serving oflight cream has 31 grams.
Whenever possible, lower the amount
of fat in a recipe by substituting a lower-
fat milk.  A cream soup made with low-fatmilk is just as rich tasting, especially if you
thicken the soup with a bit of flour.  A cup
of cocoa made with skim milk provides
more nutrients and fewer calories than theaverage chocolate dessert, and it is just aseffective for satisfying a sweet tooth. 
Dried & Concentrated
Milks
Dried and concentrated milks offer conve-nience and increased shelf life.  Such prod-ucts also can be used in numerous recipesto give the taste of milk without all the watervolume of fluid milk.  Dried and concen-trated milk products include the following:
Powdered milk — As its name sug-
gests, powdered milk is milk that has had
nearly all the water removed from it.Mixing it with water (follow package direc-tions) results in fluid milk.  Powdered milkis usually made from skim milk becausehaving less fat helps the product resist ran-cidity.  Recipes sometimes call for powdered
milk to thicken sauces or to add calciumand protein to foods.  Powdered milk doesnot taste like fresh milk.  However, itsstability and portability make it a frequentingredient in convenience foods orprepared mixes.  These qualities also makeit an excellent choice for travelers.  Openedpackages of low-fat, nonfat, and butter-Servin g Suggestions
Nonfat milk has the least amount of fat and
calories but still provides all of milk’s nutri-ents.  Many people prefer its lighter textureand taste to the heaviness of whole milk.Even the staunchest fan of whole milk can
easily be converted to using this healthieralternative.  Make the change gradually.Start by mixing equal parts of whole milkwith 2 percent milk.  Then, in stepwise pro-
gression, use just 2 percent, next a combi-nation of 2 percent and 1 percent, then just1 percent, then a combination of 1 percentSELECTING MILK FOR
CHILDREN
Milk recommendations for childrenolder than 1 year are a practical
concern for parents.  Can everyone
in the family drink the same milk, or should you buy certain milk foronly the youngest members? 
Breast milk, of course, is recom-
mended during the first year of life.If the infant is weaned during thefirst year, the best alternative is to useiron-fortified formula.  Formula-fedinfants should remain on iron-forti-fied formula until 1 year of age.After age 1, the American Academyof Pediatrics recommends usingwhole milk if the use of breast milkor formula is discontinued.  Untilage 2, fat should not be limited in an infant’s diet.  
After age 2 years, children can
begin to consume fat in moderation,just as the rest of the family does.However, whether to use low-fatmilk will vary for each child.  If achild has had poor growth or achronic medical condition, discussthe appropriate fat content of milk— and diet in general — with thechild’s physician.  For otherwisehealthy children older than 2 years,low-fat milk (skim, 1 percent, or 2 percent) is fine — and it meansyou have to buy only one type ofmilk for the entire family. 
SOY AND RICE “MILK ”
Nondairy beverages made from soy-
beans and rice are available forpersons who have milk allergies, arelactose-intolerant, or prefer not toeat animal products.  Both soy milkand rice milk are similar in look andtaste to milk and can be used formany of the same purposes, such as pouring on cereal or makingsmoothies and other dairy-based
beverages. 
Soymilk is made from water,
soybeans, malted corn and barleyextract, seaweed (used for thickeningpurposes), salt, and, depending onthe brand, a fat or oil.  Rice milk ismade from water, brown rice, salt,and, depending on the brand, saf-flower oil and various vitamins andminerals.  Soy and rice milks havefewer calories and less fat than wholemilk, but they have more of boththan skim milk.  One cup of soymilkhas about 135 calories and 5 gramsof fat.  One cup of rice milk hasabout 120 calories and 2 grams of fat. of dried milk keep better in the refrigerator
because temperature and humidity are
better controlled. 
Evaporated milk — Packaged in sealed
cans, evaporated milk is milk from whichabout 60 percent of water has been evapo-rated.  The milk is homogenized and packedin heat-sterilized cans that help extend shelflife.  Unopened cans can be stored at roomtemperature for up to 6 months but should
be refrigerated and used within 5 days afterbeing opened.  Ev aporated milk has a
slightly darker color than regular milk
because it was heated during the evapora-tion process.
Sweetened condensed milk — Thick
and sold in sealed cans, condensed milk isoften used to make desserts because it isusually sweetened.  Like evaporated milk,more than half of the water in sweetenedcondensed milk is removed by heating it.Up to 40 to 45 percent of this product byweight is sugar.  In its undiluted form,sweetened condensed milk contains nearly13 tablespoons of sugar and 1,000 caloriesper cup.  For that reason, it is best to eatsmall servings of desserts and dishes madewith this ingredient. 
Preparation Tips
Dry milk can be reconstituted accordingto package directions, or it can be mixedwith cool water in a blender for a morepleasing consistency.  When using sweet-ened condensed milk, cut down on theamount of other sugar you use in the recipeto save on calories. 
Servin g Suggestions
Nonfat dry milk can add a boost of calcium
to recipes for meatloaf, hot cereal, gravy, orcanned cream soups.  A tablespoon containsDairy Foods 351
cially made cream.  Many types of cream
are sold:  
Heavy cream and li ght whippin g cream —
Heavy cream has between 36 and 40 per-cent milk fat by weight.  The thickest ofthe “sweet creams,” heavy cream is usedmainly for whipping cream and for desserts.A lower-fat version, with 30 to 36 percentmilk fat, is called light whipping cream.For this cream to whip properly, emulsi-fiers and stabilizers are added to the cream.Both products double in volume whenwhipped.  For this reason, whipping creamis also called double cream.
Light cream — Light cream contains
18 to 30 percent milk fat by weight andcannot be whipped.  Instead of doublingin size, it remains the same volume.  Hence,it is called single cream.  Other names for94 milligrams of calcium but adds only 27calories.  Many brands are fortified withvitamins A and D for a nutrient bonus. 
Evaporated milk often is used in soups
and sauces for a smooth, creamy texture.Well chilled, it also can be whipped andused as a dessert topping with only a tenthof the calories of heavy whipped cream.
Cream and Sour Cream
Cream is made from milk fat.  It is extremelyhigh in fat and calories, but it creates thecreamy, rich, indulgent taste in desserts andsauces.
A century ago, cream was skimmed
from the top of milk that was set in a coolplace.  Today, machines separate commer-
light cream include table cream or coffee
cream, because it is often the cream used
to fill coffee creamers.
Half-and-half — This is a mixture of
equal parts of whole milk and light cream,homogenized to prevent separation.  It con-tains from 10 to 12 percent milk fat byweight and can be substituted in many
recipes calling for cream.  The product cutscalories and fat, but it lacks some of thevelvety qualities of heavy or light cream.Half-and-half commonly is added tocoffee, although a far healthier alternativeis skim milk.
Sour cream — Real sour cream con-
tains 18 to 20 percent milk fat by weight.It is created commercially by introducinga bacterial culture to cream that convertsthe milk’s sugar, lactose, into lactic acid.The acid gives sour cream its distinctive,tangy flavor.  Stabilizers such as sodiumalginate, carrageenan, locust bean gum, or352 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
gelatin are sometimes added to make sour
cream thick and smooth, and rennet andnonfat milk solids are added to give it morebody.  Low-fat and light sour creams areboth made with half-and-half according tothe same process to create a similar productwith 60 percent less fat than regular sourcream.  Fat-free sour cream substitute is
made with the same process, and skim milk
is used as the base.
Nondairy creamers and toppin gs —
These imitation dairy products sometimescontain coconut oil, palm kernel oil, orother highly saturated and hydrogenatedvegetable oils mixed with casein (a milkprotein) and lactose (a milk sugar).  Theseingredients create a high level of saturatedfat without providing any of the vitaminsand minerals found in milk or cream.  Fat-free and sugar-free versions of regular coffeecreamers, lighteners, and nondairy whippedtoppings have various amounts of sugarsand fats.  Pressurized whipped cream,packed in cans under pressure, uses gas toexpand the cream.  Aerosol dessert toppingsdo not contain any milk or cream.
Preparation Tips
Because cream is highly perishable, it should
be stored in the coolest part of the refrig-
erator and used quickly.  To whip cream,chill the cream thoroughly and place thebeaters and bowl in the freezer for 10 min-utes before whipping.  Whip at mediumspeed until the cream thickens.
WHATGOESINTOYOURCOFFEE COUNTS
What goes into the brew you purchase at your local espresso bar matters.  For example,here’s how your choice of milk affects two popular espresso-based beverages:
Latte (12 ounces) Calories Fat ( grams) Carbohydrates ( grams)
Made with whole milk 190 11 14
Made with skim milk 95 0 14
Cappuccino (12 ounces)
Made with whole milk 155 9 11Made with skim milk 55 0 9Servin g Suggestions
Although air is added to whipped cream,
a dollop atop a special treat adds extra fat(mostly saturated):  about 3 grams for 1/4cup.  Cream sauces served over pasta arealso high in fat.  Instead, try a vegetable-rich marinara sauce.  Substitute a lower-fatversion of cream in recipes when possible,or use milk or yogurt.  For recipes calling forsour cream, try buttermilk or yogurt.Dairy Foods 353
African camel’s milk, or the Middle Eastern
ewe’s milk is unknown and still debated.
But the results, after thousands of years,
remain the same:  the earliest coagulatingcurds of milk carried in a shepherd’s pouchhave become a tempting treat, with manydifferent types from which to choose.
Cheese can be made from various milks.
Milk from cows is typically used in theUnited States, but milk from sheep, goats,camels, and other animals is used worldwide.In fact, some of the world’s finest gourmetcheeses are made from sheep’s milk.
No matter what type of milk is used, the
process is essentially the same.  The first stepis to curdle the milk, essentially causing pro-teins in the milk to clump.  Bacterial cul-tures or certain enzymes are used to curdlethe milk.  Next, the liquid surrounding thecurds, which is called the whey, is drained.If substitutions leave you yearning for
the real thing, or if you eat more of the
lower-fat item than you would have eaten
of the higher-fat ingredient, you may wantto stick to the recipe and eat a smaller serv-ing as an occasional indulgence.
Cheese
Despite the high fat content of most formsof cheese, cheese remains an Americanfavorite.  Dairy cases are filled with differentvarieties of cheeses, and classic foods suchas pizza, cheeseburgers, and tacos, all ofwhich use some form of cheese, guaranteegenerations of cheese lovers.
The first cheese was said to have devel-
oped by accident, when milk was allowed
to ferment.  Whether the first cheese wasformed from Mongolian yak’s milk, theCREAM GLOSSARY
Chantilly cream — Named for
the place in France where it isbelieved to have originated, chantilly
cream is made simply by addingsugar and vanilla to whipped cream.
Clotted cream (also called
Devonshire cream) — A sour creamthat originated in Devonshire,England, clotted cream is thickerthan regular sour cream.  After beingheated and cooled, the cream isskimmed and then eaten on sconeswith jam.
Crème fraîche — A product that
falls between fresh cream and sourcream, crème fraîche is used often inFrench cooking, in which it is servedlightly whipped and sweetened.  It ismade by adding a small amount ofbuttermilk to cream and heating themixture.  It is then stored in a warmplace until it thickens.  This usuallytakes between 12 and 36 hours.  Themixture is then r efrigerated and can
be kept up to a week.
Smetana — A dense Russian sour
cream, smetana is traditionally servedon borscht and salads.  It is alsoknown by the names smitane,smatana, or sliuki.
Then the curds are pressed into shapes.
Salt may be added at this point.  The freshly
made cheese is then allowed to age, a
process that develops its flavor.  Other ingre-dients also may be added at this point.  Ingeneral, 11 pounds of milk are needed tomake 1 pound of cheese.  Knowing that, itis easy to see why cheese is dense in bothcalories and fat.
Like any dairy product, cheese is per-
ishable.  A general rule is that the harderthe cheese, the longer it keeps.  Categoriesof cheese are determined by the methodused to make it, the type of milk used, thetexture, or even the appearance of the rind.This classification system groups cheeseswith common characteristics.354 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
steps from milk.  It is essentially the sepa-
ration of milk into curds and whey.  The
curds are partially drained before cottage
cheese is packaged and sold. 
Cream cheese — The mild white spread
often used for bagels, cream cheese is abetter choice than butter, but it still has a lotof fat.  Up to 90 percent of the calories incream cheese are from fat.  One tablespoonhas about 50 calories and about 5 grams offat.  Even reduced-fat cream cheese is highin fat, with up to 75 percent of calories
from fat.  From a calorie and fat standpoint,
fat-free cream cheeses are the best choice.
Farmer’s cheese — Often used in bak-
ing, farmer’s cheese is essentially cottagecheese that has had most of the liquidFresh Cheeses
These cheeses were once made on the farmfrom surplus cream and quickly served.Today these cheeses are made with pas-teurized milk, but they still have a shortshelf life and must be consumed quickly.Fresh cheeses are not allowed to ripen orferment very long, so they have a high mois-ture content, a mild flavor, and a smooth,creamy texture.  They generally keep for 1week after purchase or the “use by” date.
Common types of fresh cheeses include
the following: 
Cotta ge cheese — Usually thought of as
a “diet” food, cottage cheese is a healthfulfood choice when it is made from skim orlow-fat milk.  Cottage cheese is only a few
Fresh mozzarella cheese, tomato,
and basil on crackers.pressed out of it.  It is usually sold formed
as a loaf and is relatively low in fat. 
Mozzarella — The pizza topping of
choice, mozzarella is a soft, bland cheese.Unlike other fresh cheeses, mozzarella hasundergone a heating and kneading process.Whole-fat, skim, low-moisture, and fat-free versions of mozzarella cheese are avail-able.  Fresh mozzarella, sold in specialtyand ethnic stores, is usually made from
whole milk and, therefore, is higher in fatthan other types.
Ricotta — A common ingredient in
Italian dishes, ricotta is similar to cottagecheese but has a finer texture.  Ricotta wasonce made from whey left over from mak-ing other cheeses.  Today, it is made fromwhey and milk. 
Semisoft Cheeses  
Semisoft cheeses are firm on the outside yetsoft and moist on the inside.  Because theyare aged for just a few weeks, they have asoft, moist texture and mild flavor. 
Semisoft cheeses are used widely in
cooking because they melt smoothly and
easily.  They are also easy to slice and so areexcellent for hors d’oeuvres or for moreordinary uses, such as sandwich toppings. 
Because these cheeses are soft, they are
often coated with wax or another materialto keep them intact.  Some types of semi-soft cheeses are aged.  Others are “washed”in brine, which causes them to develop arind on the outside.  These processes alsointensify the cheese’s flavor and, in someinstances, sodium content.
Some common types of semisoft cheeses
include:
Brick — The shape of this cheese is the
origin of its name.  When aged, it has anassertive flavor, like cheddar cheese.  Whenit is young, it is mild.Dairy Foods 355
ily sliced and can add a different twist to ordi-
nary foods, such as sandwiches.
Provolone — The taste of this cheese
depends on its age and how it is processed.Young provolone has a mild taste and ivorycolor.  With age, its flavor becomes stronger,its texture drier, and its color darker.  Thecheese is sometimes smoked or has had asmoke flavoring added to it.  Provolone isoften sold in loaves.
Semisoft cheeses are generally higher in
calories and fat than soft cheeses.  For exam-
ple, 1 1/2 ounces of Edam or provolone
cheese has about 150 calories and about 12grams of fat.  In contrast, the same amountof cottage cheese (made with 2 percentmilk) contains about 40 calories and 1 gramEdam — A Dutch specialty, this cheese
has a mild, buttery taste.  It is often sold inballs or blocks coated with red wax.  It isalso available smoked.
Gouda — Another Dutch cheese,
Gouda is sold in wedges and wheels usual-
ly covered in red wax.  Like other semisoftcheeses, it has a mild flavor that becomessharper as it ages.  Gouda can be purchasedas a smoked cheese.
Jarlsber g — A Norwegian specialty, this
cheese is often compared to Swiss cheese.
It is softer, however, and milder.  Jarlsberg
is also typically sold in wedges.
Limbur ger— Famed for its character-
istic aroma, Limburger is one of the strongest-flavored semisoft cheeses.  Limburger is eas-GOATCHEESES
Goat’s milk has a little morecalcium than cow’s milk but itis deficient in vitamin B
12and
folate.  Goat’s milk has smallerfat globules than cow’s milk,so it does not need to behomogenized.  However, it
does need to be pasteurized for
the same reasons cow’s milkshould — to kill any germsthat might be harmful to humans.
Goat’s milk is not an acceptable alternative for persons who are lactose-intoler-
ant, because it contains lactose in the same percentage as cow’s milk.  Nor is goat’s
milk or goat cheese a lower-fat alternative.  Some people prefer the taste andtexture of goat cheese, but 1 1/2 ounces of hard goat cheese has 13 grams of fat —about the same as cheese made from whole cow's milk, such as cheddar. 
Soft goat cheeses such as Montrachet and some types of feta — a salty, white
cheese originating in Greece which can be made with goat or sheep’s milk — contain more moisture and are comparable to cheeses made from part-skim cow’smilk.  One and one-half ounces of feta cheese has 9 grams of fat, about the sameamount as in an equal amount of mozzarella or Neufchâtel cheese.
356 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Hard and Firm Cheeses
This category is what most people think of
when it comes to cheese.  So-named becausethey become hardened with age, hard andfirm cheeses include the well-known cheddarand Parmesan varieties.  They have a strongflavor and are widely used in cooking.  Theyare also richer in calcium than softer cheesesbecause more milk is used in their produc-tion.  However, this also means they arehigher in fat and calories and so should beused in moderation in a healthful diet.
Hard and firm cheeses are divided into
these categories:
Hard gratin g cheeses — Hard grating
cheeses include Parmesan and Romano.  Asthe name suggests, they are often gratedbefore use, but they can be served aschunks.  Both cheeses originated in Italy.Parmesan cheese takes its name from theParma region, where this cheese may beaged up to 4 years.  Romano cheese prob-ably originated in Rome.  Italian versionsare made from sheep’s milk; American ver-sions, in contrast, are made from cow’s milk.Both types are common toppings for Italianfavorites such as spaghetti.  In general, thesecheeses have a tangy flavor and pleasingaroma.  During production, they are heat-ed to set the curd and reduce moisture.Aging enhances their flavor and results intheir texture becoming more crumbly.
Cheddar-type cheeses — Cheddar
cheese originated in the English village ofCheddar and has since been adopted bycheese lovers all over the world.  Cheddar’sdistinct bite can range from mild to sharp,and the cheese is often seasoned with wineor spices.  Cheddar cheese’s characteristiccolor is orange — the result of adding anatural vegetable coloring called annattoduring production.  Other cheddar-typecheeses include Cantal, Cheshire, Gloucester,Wensleydale, and Leicester. tain a soft, butter-like consistency at matu-
rity.  These cheeses garner their characteris-
tic flavor from bacteria that grow on the out-side and move inward.  The result is a rich,creamy texture and full flavor.  These cheesesoften have fewer calories than hard cheeses.
Soft, white-rind cheeses include:Brie — A cheese originating in northern
France, Brie is often sold in wedges and hasa tangy, buttery flavor.
Camembert — Also originating in
northern France, Camembert has a velvetytexture and a soft, light-yellow interior.Camembert is often wrapped in foil andsold in wooden boxes.
Blue or Blue-Veined Cheeses
Blue-veined cheeses are created by the intro-duction of a blue mold into the milk beforeit thickens.  The blue color, however, wouldnot appear as the characteristic blue-greenveins in cheeses without exposure to air.Therefore, the cheese is pierced with steelrods to let air circulate. 
Most blue cheeses are made in the style
of classic European blue cheeses.  They canbe firm or creamy and any color fromchalk-white to golden-yellow.  The flavorof these cheeses grows stronger with age.Although these cheeses are high in fat, onlya small amount is typically used because oftheir strong flavor.  Blue cheeses keep for1 to 4 weeks after purchase.
Classic or blue-veined cheeses include:Gorgonzola — Sold in wheels,
Gorgonzola is an Italian specialty.  Theinterior of the cheese is white with veinsthat are usually more green than blue. 
Roquefort — Named for the area in
France where the cheese is said to haveoriginated, Roquefort has a crumbly tex-ture and a sharp flavor.  It is made fromsheep’s milk.of fat.  However, semisoft cheeses general-ly contain less fat and calories than hardcheeses because less milk is used to makesemisoft cheeses than hard cheeses. 
Soft, White-Rind Cheeses
Soft, white-rind cheeses are descendents ofnatural-rind cheeses, in which gray, green,and even red molds are allowed to grow onthe surface of the cheese as it ripens.  MostNorth American cheese consumers are putoff by the colored mold growth, so thecolorful natural-rind cheeses are nearlyimpossible to obtain outside of France.
Soft, white-rind cheeses are readily avail-
able, however.  Instead of allowing naturalmold growth, these cheeses are sprayed withwhite mold spores that seal the outside whileallowing the interior of the cheese to main-REDUCED -FAT AND IMITATION
CHEESES
Reduced-fat cheese usually is madefrom nonfat milk, but additives areneeded to create the creamy textureof full-fat versions.  Imitation cheesedoes not necessarily mean theproduct contains no milk: it may use casein (a milk protein) and 
emulsifiers, enzymes, and artificialflavorings and colors.  Other imita-
tion cheeses are made from soybeanderivatives.  Both reduced-fat andimitation cheeses can be used as youwould use regular cheese if you donot plan to cook the cheese.  Bothreduced-fat and imitation cheesestend to have a denser, more rubberytexture when heated and may not meltin the way traditional cheese does.Dairy Foods 357
Colby — A blander, more moist cheese
than cheddar, Colby was developed in
Wisconsin a century ago.
Gruyère-type cheese s — Carbon diox-
ide gases trapped inside the cheese while itis ripening create the characteristic “eyes”of this type of cheese.  The cheese usuallyis a straw-yellow color and has a mild torich, full flavor. 
Monterey Jack — A mild, light-colored
cheese, Monterey Jack also may be spicedup with bits of jalapeno peppers, pepper-
oni, or herbs and spices.
Swiss cheese — Known for the holes
in it, Swiss cheese is a golden-yellow cheeseand has a  tangy flavor.  The holes in it arecaused by pockets of gas that develop whenthe cheese is made.
Processed Cheeses
Processed cheese is the most common typeof cheese eaten in the United States, whereit was originally developed.  In processedcheese, one or more types of cheese areheated (which stops the aging process) and
melted.  An emulsifier is then added as a
binding agent.  Additional dairy ingredi-ents may be added, such as cream, wholeor skim milk, buttermilk, or dried milk.Depending on the process, other thick-eners or emulsifiers may be added forfirmness and smoothness.  A commontype of processed cheese is Americancheese, which is usually derived fromcheddar cheese.
Processed cheeses have a mild flavor and
melt easily and smoothly.  They have anumber of uses, from spreads to pasta top-pings to dips.  However, there are nutri-tional trade-offs.  Processed cheeses are oftenhigher in sodium than traditional cheesesand are somewhat lower in protein andother nutrients.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) closely regulates the composition ofprocessed cheese.  Label terms that indi-cate you are using a processed cheeseinclude pasteurized process cheese, cheesefood, and cheese spread.
Preparation Tips
To get the most flavor from your cheese, itshould be allowed to warm to room tem-
perature.  Therefore, take cheese out of therefrigerator an hour in advance of when
you plan to serve it.  Keep the wrapper
intact so the cheese does not dry out.
The opposite is true if you plan to grate
cheese. It grates better when it is cold, and10 minutes in the freezer speeds the process.When melting cheese, use a gradual,
medium heat, because it can turn rubberywhen heated at a high temperature.
Servin g Suggestions
Because most cheese is high in fat — about
40 percent of which is saturated — itshould accompany other foods rather thanbe the centerpiece of a meal.  Also, mostcheeses are high in sodium because of thesalt used for curing and flavoring.
That said, the flavor and texture of cheese
mean that large quantities are not needed toenjoy it.  Cheese is excellent as a garnish forsoups and salads.  Or, crumble bits of realblue cheese on your salad instead of pour-ing on fat-filled blue cheese dressing.  TheMigraines, also called vascularheadaches, are thought to involveblood vessels in the brain, although the exact cause is unknown.  Somecheeses contain a naturally occurring
compound called tyramine, which, in
susceptible people, can cause an
increase in blood pressure, an increasein the size of blood vessels in the brain,and headache pain.  For people whotake drugs called monoamine oxidase
inhibitors (MAOIs), avoidance of allfoods containing tyramine — includ-
ing aged cheeses — is essential.
Tyramine is found naturally in
food. It is formed from the breakdownof protein as foods age.  Few studieshave measured tyramine content incheese.  However, the research that hasbeen done indicates that the longer acheese has aged, the greater its tyra-mine content.  Compared with otherfoods, aged cheeses have the highest
tyramine content.  The amount oftyramine in cheeses differs greatlybecause of the variations in processing,fermenting, aging, degradation, or even bacterial contamination.  Thefollowing types of cheeses are aged or have been reported to be high intyramine and should be avoided if youare susceptible to migraines or if youtake MAOIs:
• Blue cheeses 
• Brie • Cheddar • English Stilton • Feta• Gorgonzola • Mozzarella • Muenster • Parmesan • Swiss
MIGRAINES AND CHEESEresult is a more authentic blue cheese taste
with less fat and fewer calories.  Top pastawith a small serving of grated cheese, suchas Romano or Parmesan, but lean heavilyon a vegetable-based sauce.  Use a single sliceof cheese atop a veggie-filled sandwich, ortrade the cheese for a lean slice of turkey.
When making nachos, sprinkle baked
tortilla pieces lightly with sharp cheddarcheese and then top the chips with plentyof healthier options:  vegetables, beans, andsalsa.  If you have a craving for pizza, makeyour own.  Take-out pizzas, especially ifordered with extra cheese, can supply theentire day’s fat supply with one piece.
Yogurt
Yogurt is the result of milk that has been fer-mented and coagulated.  Its inception, prob-ably by accident, was thought to be around4,000 years ago when nomadic Balkan tribesstumbled on the process as a way of pre-serving milk.  In this age-old process, milkis left at 110 degrees Fahrenheit for severalhours to be invaded by friendly bacteria.  358 Part II     Encyclopedia of Foods
“living yogurt cultures” on the label.
Other types of yogurt are pasteurized again
after the cultures have sufficiently
fermented the yogurt.  This type is labeled“heat-treated.”
Active yogurt cultures help to digest
casein, a protein found in milk.  There isalso some evidence that active yogurtcultures replenish the “friendly” bacteria inour intestines after the supply dwindles.This decrease in bacteria happens becauseof normal aging, illness, or use of somemedications.
Yogurt did not attract Americans’ atten-
tion until the health-food movement of the1960s.  Even now, Europeans still consume5 times as much yogurt as North Americans.Consumption in America is growing withthe increased marketing of yogurt that hasadditional flavors added.  One caution:added flavors can add calories and fat. 
Preparation Tips
Plain yogurt can be used in place of creamor mayonnaise in recipes, but the result willbe less creamy and more tart.  Cooking withToday’s yogurt, however, is created in
a much more sophisticated manner.  Theprocess starts with the milk.  The type ofmilk used defines the fat, calories, and, con-sequently, the richness of the yogurt.  Forexample, nonfat yogurt comes from nonfatmilk, and low-fat yogurt is derived fromlow-fat milk.
The milk is then pasteurized.  One of
the two milk proteins — the whey — is
coagulated to create yogurt’s characteristic
glutinous consistency, and the substance isthen homogenized and cooled.
The true yogurt-making process then
begins with the introduction of the starterbacteria cultures.  In North America, thetwo most common bacteria strains used areStreptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillusbulgaricus. These two types of friendly bac-
teria change the milk’s sugar (called lactose)
into lactic acid.  The lactic acid is respon-
sible for the tangy, acidic taste of yogurt.
The more bacterial strains used, the strongerthe acidic flavor.
Some of the bacterial cultures survive
the yogurt-making process.  This type ofyogurt will list “active yogurt cultures” orTRANSLATING AT THE CHEESE
COUNTER
Cheese is a staple and a specialty inmany cultures, almost all of whichimport cheese from one another.Below is a guide for determining theorigin of the milk used for variouscheeses.
Animal French Italian Spanish
Cow Vache Vacca Vaca
Sheep Brebis Pecora OvejaGoat Chèvre Capra Cabrayogurt can be a challenge because it curdles
so easily.  Make sure to allow yogurt to
warm to room temperature before slowly
heating it.
Low-fat and nonfat versions of plain
yogurt can be used in many recipes that callfor sour cream.  The acidity from the lacticacid creates a taste similar to that of sourcream, but the texture is a bit compromised.However, a half cup of sour cream has 214calories and 21 grams of fat, and the sameamount of low-fat yogurt has 63 calories
and 2 grams of fat.  From a health stand-
point, therefore, the texture becomes sec-ondary.  Another option would to be to usehalf sour cream and half yogurt.
Because yogurt contains an acid that
can work as a tenderizer, it makes a won-derful marinade for meats.  Tandoorichicken, an Indian dish, is probably themost well-known yogurt-marinaded meal.The basic marinade consists of lemon juice
and plain yogurt.
Yogurt can be used for fruit and veg-
etable dips, atop baked potatoes or coldcereals, or in stroganoff recipes.  It can evenreplace the sour cream used with nachos orbe added to guacamole to reduce the fat. 
Servin g Suggestions
Yogurt is the ultimate convenience food.
Most supermarkets stock single-serving
containers tailor-made for lunch boxes orquick snacks.  Some producers have takenthis idea a step further, presenting yogurtin push-from-the-bottom tubes that can beeaten without a spoon.
Honey, fruit, and granola are popular
additions to yogurt, but yogurt can stand up
to bolder additions such as chili.
Yogurt also offers two great dessert
opportunities:  frozen yogurt and smoothies.Frozen yogurt can be found in the super-Dairy Foods 359
However, it was not until 1926 that refrig-
eration allowed the mass production of icecream.  With subsequent decades came bet-ter freezers and an increase in ice cream con-sumption.  Today, the average American eatsmore than 15 quarts of ice cream in a year.
Part of ice cream’s popularity can be
attributed to its smooth, creamy texture.The process of homogenization helps createits unique taste by breaking down the sizeof the fat globules in the milk, making asmoother product.
Adding air also makes ice cream
smoother.  After flavors and colors havemarket freezer section or you can make your
own by adding ingredients to yogurt and
then freezing it.  Smoothies can be madewith low-fat yogurt and fruit or fruit juiceand then whipped in a blender as a healthieralternative to malts and shakes.
Ice Cream and Dairy
Desserts
Early versions of the frozen confection weknow as ice cream probably used snow andsweeteners to please the palates in ancientChina and the Roman Empire.  The dessertmade its pilgrimage to North America in1774, when caterer Phillip Lenzi told a NewYork newspaper that he would be selling adessert he had discovered in London called“ice cream.”NONDAIRY DESSERTS
Many items available in the “icecream” section of your local super-
market are not derived from dairyproducts.  Referred to as nondairyfrozen desserts, these ice cream sub-stitutes are derived from either soy-beans or rice.
Soymilk and tofu are the base 
of soybean-based products.  Water,
fructose or other sweeteners, veg-etable oil, and flavorings are added.Rice-based desserts are treated with aspecial process that enhances therice’s sweetness while breaking downthe proteins and starches.  This basealso needs sweeteners and additives.
These ice cream substitutes
contain no milk or lactose, so theyprovide an alternative for persons
who have milk allergies or who are
lactose-intolerant.  They also containno cholesterol.  But some types,especially the items made from tofu,can have just as many calories as ice cream.been added, but before any mix-ins such
as fruit or candy pieces are added, the mix-
ture is whipped to increase its volume by
150 percent.  Without this added air, thedensity of ice cream would resemble thatof an ice cube.  Too much air, though,creates an ice cream that is too mushy andunsatisfying in texture to serve.  Air doesnot determine the difference between soft-serve and hard ice creams, however.  Soft-serve ice cream is not allowed to freeze fully,so it maintains its “soft” consistency andcan easily be manipulated by machine intocones or containers.  Hard ice cream isallowed to freeze so it can be scooped orspooned out of containers.
Ice cream can be made at home with
an ice-cream maker, milk, cream, sugar,and flavors.  Many recipes also call for eggs.360 Part II     Encyclopedia of Foods
percent milk fat.  (Regular ice cream has
around 10 percent milk fat, and premium
varieties can be as high as 16 percent.)  Most
varieties of ice milk also have fewer caloriesoverall, but some brands add more sweet-ener and flavoring to compensate for theless creamy texture.
Sherbet or sorbet — Sherbet’s main
ingredients are frozen, sweetened fruit juiceand water, but it also can contain milk andegg whites.  Therefore, sherbet is not a safealternative to ice cream for persons withmilk or egg allergies.  Sorbets and ices maybe better choices, because they are supposedto be prepared without these ingredients.Their names are not regulated, so alwayscheck the label before purchasing.  Both con-tain a liquid base (usually fruit juice), sweet-ener, and water, but sorbets are less creamyHomemade ice cream does not contain the
stabilizers used in commercial ice cream toincrease body and stave off melting.  Nordoes it contain artificial flavorings, as manycommercial products do.  The result is a
texture and taste that are very different from
those of commercial ice cream. 
Most commercial ice cream has around
10 percent milk fat and added sweetenersand so a high calorie count.  The countincreases with the number of high-caloriemix-ins:  pieces of fruits, nuts, candy, andcookies with flavored syrups in ribbons,swirls, and ripples.  Many of these ingre-dients have added fat.
Types of frozen dairy desserts include:Ice milk — Ice milk has fewer calories
from fat because it is prepared in the same
manner as ice cream but with only 3 to 5
than sherbets, and ices are even less creamy
than sorbets, usually with a granular texture. 
Frozen yo gurt — Frozen yogurt is made
from fermented milk treated with a lacticacid culture (see Yogurt, page 358).  It issold in either soft-serve or hard forms.  Itusually contains less fat than ice cream.  Italso provides the vitamins and mineralscommonly found in dairy products, unlikenondairy items.  However, frozen yogurtdoes not contain the same friendly bacteriaDairy Foods 361
that some forms of unfrozen yogurt do.
The freezing process kills the bacteria that
aid in digestion.
Preparation Tips
It is fun to make ice cream at home, and
several new makers on the market need little,
if any, manual cranking.  Just gather the
ingredients, mix, and follow the manufac-turer’s directions.  Because homemade icecream does not contain the stabilizers andpreservatives of its commercial counter-parts, it lasts only a few days in the freezerbefore it starts to form ice crystals and pickup the ambient smells.  Therefore, it is bestto make ice cream when the amount madewill be quickly consumed.
For the occasional snacker, commercially
available desserts provide no real preparationtime: allow the container to soften slightlyFAVORITE FLAVOR
What is the most popular ice creamflavor in North America?  Vanilla, of course.  It is the flavor of almost30 percent of all ice cream produced.
Next on the list are chocolate and
Neapolitan. on the counter (perhaps only a minute or
two), and then scoop out a 1.5-cup serving.
Servin g Suggestions
Ice cream is delicious, but it should be an
occasional indulgence, given the amountof calories and fat in it.  When it is time tosplurge, limit the amount of ice cream orother dessert treat to a small serving instead
of filling a bowl.  In addition, choose a
frozen dessert that has less than 3 grams of
fat per half cup, and use it as a foundationto enhance other, healthier foods.  Forexample, add fruit — such as strawberriesor bananas — to ice cream in equal ratiosinstead of pouring on the chocolate syrup. 
To lower your fat intake, choose sorbets
and fruit ices or low-fat ice cream and icecream substitutes.  Watch your serving size,however, so calories do not become a concern.363
Herbs & Spices
Basics
Although many people think herbs andspices are one and the same, they are not. 
The definition of herbs has varied
throughout the ages.  Generally, herbs arenow considered to be the aromatic leavesof plants that grow in a variety of climates.The leaves are used fresh, dried, chopped,or crushed to add a subtle taste to foods oroils.  Sometimes they are steeped in waterfor teas and other beverages.  Herbs are usu-ally added at the end of the cooking processbecause long cooking times can erode theirflavor.
Spices have many of the same uses as
herbs.  They are usually grown in tropicalareas.  Often, they have a more intense fla-vor and are derived from a wider range ofplant parts: the fruit, seed, roots, flowerbud, or bark.  Spices are usually added at
the beginning of the cooking process.
Both herbs and spices can be crushed
for nonculinary uses:  for medicinal pur-poses (see Chapter 2, sidebar:  HerbalProducts, page 37) or for use as fragrancesin perfumes or lotions.
Nutrition
Herbs generally contain less fat and carbo-hydrates than spices.  Both do contain somenutrients.  For example, basil and clovescontain calcium and potassium.  The smallamounts of herbs and spices used in cook-ing, however, minimize the nutritional con-tributions they might make in this way.
Herbs and spices add only a negligible
number of calories to the foods to whichthey are added.  As a result, they are anexcellent replacement for both fat and salt
when it comes to flavoring food.  Creativeuse of herbs and spices can make it far easierto enjoy your meals while maintaining ahealthful diet. 
Selection
Fresh herbs and spices deliver the mostpleasing flavor.  For that reason, many seriouscooks buy spices whole (such as the wholeseed or stem) and grow their own.  In addi-tion, many cooks have their own herbgardens to have fresh herbs on hand.  Herbsare both easy to grow and attractive.  Theyare almost always perennial plants, so theycome back year after year.
Fortunately, for those without a green
thumb, fresh herbs and spices are increas-ingly available at the supermarket.  WhenHerbs and spices have been added to foods throughout history for preservation andflavor.  Although they are plentiful and inexpensive today, herbs, spices, and
other flavorings were considered as valuable as gold or jewels for many centuries.Quests for them helped shape human history, influencing explorers to set out for theNew World in the 15th century and also leading to the establishment of trade routesbetween Europe, Asia, and Africa.
If you think about it, it is easy to understand why people long ago placed such an
emphasis on flavorings for their food.  Easy refrigeration of food has been only a recentdevelopment.  Before its development, food perished rapidly and thus had a bad taste wheneaten.  Some food was preserved with large quantities of salt.  In addition, the wide variety of foods—particularly fresh fruits and vegetables—that we enjoy today was not available.  As a result, the daily diet of people throughout much of history was bland and unexciting.  It is no wonder that herbs and spices were valued.
Today, modern technology, agriculture, and transportation systems make our diets full 
of abundance and variety.  Herbs and spices, although no longer worth their weight in gold, nevertheless still play a crucial role in shaping cuisine and adding interest to foods.  They may also play a role in health, offering an opportunity to add flavor without adding the health drawbacks of excess fat or salt.364 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
and change the water every few days.  Fresh
herbs stored in this manner will keep for
about a week. 
Common Herbs
Basil
Basil is a member of the mint family.  Most
types have shiny, light-green leaves and a
pungent, slightly sweet aroma.  There aremany types of basil, each slightly differentin aroma and taste.  One of the most widelyused herbs for seasoning tomatoes andtomato sauces, basil plays a key role inMediterranean, Asian, and Middle Easterncuisine.  Basil particularly complements theflavor of garlic and olives.  It is also pleasingcombined with lemon.
Bay Leaf
The green, pointed leaves, usually sold dried,are grown on a small tree belonging to thethe product probably has lost most of its
flavor and should be replaced.  Make sure to
date each container when you put it in your
pantry.  A rule of thumb is to keep driedherbs no longer than 6 months.  It is idealto refrigerate dried herbs after 3 months.
Fresh herbs are highly perishable and
may last only a few days in the refrigerator.Maximize their shelf life by managing theirmoisture.  They need some to avoid wilting.However, too much can cause them to rot.A solution is to pack fresh herbs in a per-forated plastic bag in the refrigerator crisper,which will help keep the air around theproduct humid.  Pat excess moisture off theleaves with a paper towel before putting thebag in the crisper. 
This storage method works for most
herbs, but there is a better one for basil,cilantro, sage, mint, parsley, and other leafyherbs.  They are best stored like a flowerbouquet.  Tie the leaves together, stemsdown, and put them in a container filledwith cold water.  Store in the refrigeratorbuying them, look for products that appearthe freshest — those whose appearance andaroma indicate that the time since they wereharvested has been minimal.  Avoid productsthat have mold on them or are discolored.
Dried herbs and spices are also widely
available.  A general rule is that 1/4 teaspoonground leaves or 1 teaspoon dried leavesshould be used for each tablespoon of freshproduct. 
Stora ge
Both herbs and spices can lose their poten-cy over time, which is why proper storageis critical.  How this is done depends onthe type of product purchased. 
Whole spice seeds keep longer than
ground spices.  Both should be kept in tight-ly closed containers in a cool, dry place.
Dried herbs should be stored in the same
way.  Exposure to light and heat can causeleaves to deteriorate.  A rule for determin-ing whether the product is still good is totest its aroma.  If there is not much aroma,
Both herbs and spices have been used throughout history as
medicines.  In fact, some of the earliest medical manuscriptshighlight the theoretical healing properties of these plants.  The best known of these ancient compilations are Inquiry Into
Plants andGrowth of Plants , written around 320 
B.C.by
Theophrastus, a Greek philosopher who studied with Aristotle.Another herbal medicine tome, De Materia Medica , written
around 60 
A.D., includes descriptions of more than 600 herbs.
It is said to have influenced medicine for more than 1,500 years. 
With the growing interest in alternative medicine, many
physicians and scientists have begun studying the therapeuticpotential of these plants.  In some cases, they have found thatsome plants or extracts made from them have promise infighting disease or maintaining health.  However, some of themost promising plants — such as saw palmetto for prostateenlargement — typically are not found in kitchens.  Nor is itlikely that the small amounts of herbs and spices used in cooking
deliver any medical benefits.
More study is needed to establish the role of these plants in
health.  Until research is complete, it is best to avoid relying onthem for medical purposes or, at the very least, you should see aqualified medical practitioner before you use them.  Using themin place of traditional medicines may have harmful effects.  Sideeffects can result from improperly using just about any so-called
natural product.  Or, these products may interact dangerously
with a medication you are already taking.
One other caution is that regulation of the manufacturing
and marketing of herbal supplements in the United States is farless strict than that of prescription medications.  There are noguarantees that the herbal supplement contains the amount of active ingredient the label claims.  In fact, testing of theseproducts has found wide variation among supplement brands. MEDICINAL USES OF HERBS AND SPICESlaurel family.  They add a pungent, almost
evergreen, flavor to foods, and the whole
leaf must be removed before the food is
served.  Bay leaves are used to season a vari-ety of foods.  Their use is especially calledfor in simmered dishes, soups, stews, sauces,and tomato dishes.  Bay leaves can easily over-whelm a food, so use them with caution.  Thelonger they cook, the more flavor they add.
Chervil
A member of the parsley family, chervil has
dark-green curling leaves.  Its delicate flavoris similar to that of parsley, with a hint ofanise and lemon.  Considered essential inFrench cooking, it is excellent in salads,soups, and vinaigrettes and with seafood.Chervil can be used to replace parsley.  Itshould be used fresh, when its flavor is best.A caution:  chervil can lose flavor when itis overcooked.
Chives
A member of the onion family, chives havelong, slender, hollow green stems and areusually sold in bundles.  The mellow, delicateonion flavor of chives is useful for sauces,soups, baked potatoes, salads, omelets, pasta,seafood, and meat.  They are also commonlyused as a garnish.  In addition, their light-purple flowers are edible.  Use fresh chiveswhen possible because dried chives have littleflavor.  Chives can lose flavor when cookedtoo long.
Cilantro
Cilantro is also related to the parsley family.Its lacy green leaves have a pungent, juniper-like spicy flavor.  A popular seasoning usedworldwide, cilantro particularly comple-ments spicy foods.  It is commonly used inMediterranean, Latin American, andMiddle Eastern cuisines.  Cilantro is oftenfound in salsa.  It can overpower a dish.Herbs & Spices 365
brown seeds.  Both are used for seasoning.
The leaves have a pungent, tangy taste, and
the seeds have a bitter flavor with caraway
overtones.  Dried leaves are sold as dill weed.Dill complements the flavor of fish, chick-en, eggs, salads, and a variety of vegetables.It is also used as a pickle flavoring.  Usefresh dill leaves whenever possible; dryingUse it judiciously, adding a little at first.Cilantro may be referred to as “fresh corian-
der” because its seeds are ground into the
spice coriander. 
Dill 
Another member of the parsley family, dillhas feathery leaves and flat, oval-shaped
causes them to lose their flavor.  The leaves
also make a lacy garnish.  Dill weed shouldbe used at the end of cooking so it will keepits flavor.  Alternatively, heat intensifies theflavor of dill seed.
Fennel
Fennel has long, green, feathery leaves on cel-ery-like stems.  Both stem and leaves have adelicate, anise-like flavor and may be eaten asa vegetable.  Flowers produce seeds that mayalso be used as a flavoring.  Raw fennel stemsalso can add a subtle and different flavorto custard and ice cream.
Lemon Balm
A member of the mint family, lemon balmimparts a strong lemony flavor to foods.Use it in fruit or vegetable salads, to gar-nish fish, or to freshen drinks.  Lemon balmcan stand in for lemon peel in most recipes.In ancient times it was used to “balm”(comfort) wounds and to flavor alcoholicbeverages such as claret and mead.  It even366 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
and leaves may be added to salads.  Fennel
also can be used to flavor cheese, sauces, may-onnaise, and bread.  Fennel is a traditionalseasoning for fish.  Use fresh fennel whenev-er possible to maximize flavor.  Overcookingcan cause fennel to lose its flavor.
Lavender
Spikes of pungently aromatic purple flowersand gray-green leaves make identification ofthis herb easy.  It is a traditional flavoringfor teas, candies, and desserts.  Lavender
lemon grassflat parsleybay leaf
thyme basil
fennel
lavenderlemon balm
tarragoncurly parsleyserved as one of the first “air fresheners” —
during the Middle Ages it was strewn ontofloors and when walked on would releaseits lemon scent.
Lemon Grass
Also known as citronella grass, lemon grasshas long, green stalks and serrated leaves.The stalks have a lemony aroma and flavortinged with ginger.  Only the lower 4 to 6inches of the stalk is used.  Lemon grass iscommon in Thai and southeast Asian cook-Herbs & Spices 367
used in many tomato-based dishes, but it
has a flavor that complements just aboutany food.  It is used widely in Mediterraneancooking and makes an excellent flavoringfor oil and vinegar.  This herb can be usedinterchangeably with oregano.  Buy it freshwhen possible.
Mint
Mint’s cool, aromatic menthol taste andsmell are instantly recognizable.  There arehundreds of varieties of mints:  pepperminting.  It enhances the flavor of curries, stews,soups, chicken, and seafood.  Make sure toremove the lemon grass before serving.Fresh lemon peel and grated ginger can beused in place of lemon grass.
Marjoram
Marjoram is made from the short, pale-green leaves of a shrub cultivated through-out Europe for centuries.  Closely relatedto oregano, marjoram has a flavor resem-bling that of mint and basil.  Marjoram is
cilantro
rosemary
dillmint
oreganochives
chervilmarjoramsage
sorrel368 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
herb, sage enhances poultry stuffing, sausage,
veal, and tomato sauces.  Excellent for fla-
voring oils and vinegar, sage goes well with
thyme and oregano.
Sorrel
The slender, arrow-shaped leaves of sorrelimpart a sharp or acidic flavor to creamed
soups, meats, omelets, vegetables, or breads.
Its flavor is due to oxalic acid, which shouldbe avoided by people with a history of
oxalate kidney stones.  Young tender leavesare mildest in flavor and may be cookedand served as a vegetable.
Tarra gon
Native to Siberia, this herb has narrow and
pointed, highly aromatic dark-green leaves.It has a delicate anise flavor with under-tones of sage.  A staple in French sauces,tarragon is also widely used in chicken, fish,and vegetable dishes.  It may be used as aflavoring for wine vinegar.  There are twotypes of tarragon:  French and Russian.  TheFrench variety has a delicate flavor, where-as the Russian tarragon has a stronger,slightly bitter taste.
Thyme
There are several varieties of this herb, whichhas small, gray-green leaves and tiny purpleflowers.  Garden thyme is the most widelyused for cooking.  It has a strong, some-what bitter flavor.  Thyme is often used inherb butters, stuffing, soups, and disheswith potatoes or beans as the main ingre-dient.  It is excellent in pasta sauces and isconsidered an important culinary herb inEurope, particularly in France.  Lemonthyme is best suited for fish and egg dishes.Lemon thyme also can be used to makeherbal tea. has a more intense, peppery flavor.  A pop-ular garnish, parsley also can be added tosoups, marinades, and salads.  Both typesare often used to bring out the flavor ofother herbs.  The flat-leaf variety is typi-cally used for cooking because of its more
intense flavor.  The flavor of both types is
stronger in the stalks.
Rosemary
Rosemary has needle-shaped evergreenleaves and a piney, lemon flavor.  Rosemaryis used to season a variety of dishes, par-ticularly in Mediterranean cuisine.  It may
be sprinkled on another of this region’s spe-
cialties:  focaccia bread.  Rosemary branch-es can be burned under grilled meat or fishfor a more subtle flavor.  Use rosemary judi-ciously.  It can be overpowering.
Sage
The soft, somewhat furry gray-green leaves
of this herb have a pungent and camphor-like taste and aroma.  A strongly flavoredand spearmint are the most popular.  Oftenused as a dessert or candy flavoring, mintalso adds an interesting flavor to sauces, meatdishes, salads, and iced tea.  Lamb is tradi-tionally served with mint jelly.  Herbs thatmix well with mint include cilantro, basil,and marjoram.
Oregano
Closely related to marjoram, oregano has
a woody stalk with small green leaves.Considered less sweet than marjoram, it isthought to have a stronger, more pepperyflavor.  A ubiquitous pizza sauce flavoring,oregano is also widely used in Mediterraneancuisine (mainly Italian and Greek) and inmeat and poultry dishes.  Oregano retainsits flavor when dried.
Parsley
Parsley has long, slender stalks and featheryleaves.  It has a tangy, fresh, sometimeslemony flavor.  There are two main types:curly leaf and flat leaf.  The flat-leaf typeHerb focaccia breadCommon Spices
Allspice
Also known as Jamaican pepper, allspice is
ground from the hard brown berries of theallspice tree, which grows in Mexico andthroughout the Caribbean.  Allspice is sonamed because it imparts the flavor ofnutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon.  An excel-lent addition to marinades, allspice is alsoused to flavor cured and jerked meat,desserts, and sauces.  It is also an ingredientin gingerbread.  The finest allspice trees arethought to be grown in Jamaica.  Use thespice sparingly to avoid overpowering otheringredients. 
Anise Seeds
The tiny gray-green anise seeds come froma plant belonging to the parsley family.They have a licorice flavor (anise is used tomake licorice), but one that also imparts afeeling of warmth when the seeds are eaten.Used to flavor breads, candies, and alco-holic drinks, anise seeds also can be addedto cabbage or braised beef.  Anise seed is acommon ingredient in Indian vegetableand fish curries.  Anise complements theflavor of cinnamon and nutmeg in bakedgoods.  Anise leaves can be used to makeherbal tea or added to salads.
Caraway Seeds
These small, crescent-shaped brown seedshave a nutty, peppery flavor.  Caraway isoften used whole in rye bread or sprinkledover the top of baked goods, particularlyin Germany and many northern Europeancountries.  It can also be added to potatosalad or meat loaf or sprinkled over pasta.Ground caraway seed can have a very strongflavor.  Use sparingly.  Caraway also is usedto flavor aquavit, a Scandinavian liquor.Herbs & Spices 369
Cayenne (Crushed Red Pepper)
Made from ground dried hot chili peppers,
cayenne adds warmth to whatever foods itis added.  Capsaicin found in the chili’sseeds and membranes gives this pepper itsfire.  It is popular in Mexican, Caribbean,Chinese, and Indian cuisines.  It is alsowidely used in barbecue sauces.  Cayenneis the main ingredient in chili powder.  Goeasy on the use of cayenne if you are notaccustomed to hot foods.
Celery Seed 
Celery seeds are the small brown seeds ofthe celery plant.  They give a strong celeryflavoring to foods.  The seeds may be some-what bitter in taste.  Added to casseroles,fish, poultry, and sauces, celery seed is alsogood in potato dishes and stuffing.  Celerysalt is called for in many recipes.  Instead,you can use a small amount of plain celeryseed along with some lemon zest. Cardamom
Cardamom is made from the seedpods of aperennial plant that is part of the gingerfamily.  The seeds have a warm, sweet,slightly peppery flavor and an aroma thatcombines ginger, coriander, and nutmeg.A popular ingredient in Asian cuisine,cardamom also is used in Scandinaviancooking as a flavoring for fruit compotes,gingerbread, and meatballs.  It goes wellwith sweet potatoes and squash.  Green car-damom pods are the most flavorful andneed to be ground before use.  Pods maybe bleached or lightened, however, and thisprocessing may affect the flavor.  The light-ened pods are preferred over the groundseeds, which lose their flavor quickly.Ground cardamom can be mixed withother spices and therefore have a bluntedflavor.  Cardamom can be expensive.However, a little goes a long way.  Less cost-ly versions may have less flavor.
T andoori chickenChili Powder 
A blend of dried chili peppers, chili powder
varies in intensity, flavor, and color.  It istypically rusty red.  The powder also maycontain cumin, garlic, oregano, or salt.  Thisspice is used to flavor Southwestern cui-sine.  It is a common ingredient in chiliwith beans and in chili con carne.  It addsheat to dishes with a dash of flavor.  Becausechili powder ranges in flavor, many peoplelike to grind their own powder from thechili pepper they prefer.  Add the powder370 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
is excellent with sweet vegetables.  Ground
cinnamon has more flavor than cinnamon
sticks.  Its flavor deteriorates more quickly,
however.  Depending on the type, cinna-mon may range from strong and spicy tosweet and mellow.
Cloves
Cloves are the oily unopened buds of theclove tree.  They have a pungent flavor and
aroma.  Cloves add flavoring to roasted
meat and can be used in pies and bakedsparingly while cooking until the flavor andheat you desire are achieved.  The best chili
powders are ground from only chili peppers.
Cinnamon 
Cinnamon is ground from the curled bark
of the evergreen cinnamon and cassia trees
throughout Asia, India, and Sri Lanka.
Cinnamon is sold ground or in sticks.  Apopular flavoring for cookies, pies, desserts,candies, and coffees, cinnamon can be usedto season meats, pasta, and marinades.  It
licorice root cinnamon
salt
gingerrootsesameclovesSzechuan peppercornsaffron
celerypoppy seed
caraway
anisefruit dishes, cakes, cookies, and gingerbread.
Cloves complement the flavor of nutmeg
and cinnamon. Ground cloves lose their
flavor quickly.
Cumin
The dried seeds of a plant belonging tothe parsley family, cumin has an earthy,
nutty flavor and smell.  Used in many
cultures, cumin is a seasoning for chick-peas, the background flavor for chili, oradded to couscous, vegetable dishes, orHerbs & Spices 371
yogurt.  Cumin is often mistaken for car-
away.  If you grind your own cumin, toast
cumin seeds in a dry skillet first to inten-
sify its flavor.
Curry
Curry powder is a mixture of spices thatmay contain coriander, cumin, pepper, chili
peppers, ginger, fenugreek, onion, cinna-
mon, paprika, saffron, cilantro, or turmer-ic.  Ingredients may depend on the area ofthe world in which the curry was mixed.Curry is a staple of Indian and southeastAsian cuisine.  It is used to flavor many
meat-based dishes and soups.  Curry pow-
der adds a sweet, distinctive, and sometimeshot flavor to foods.  A common use is instews.  Curry also complements the flavorof lamb.  Because the flavor of curry mayvary, many cooks prefer to grind their own.Beware of store-bought curry powders,which may contain mostly turmeric.  Thisgives dishes a yellow color, and the flavormay be bitter.
star aniseallspice
vanilla juniperturmeric rootmace
nutmegcardamomfenugreek
cumin372 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Fenu greek Seeds
Ground from the seeds of a plant belonging
to the pea family, fenugreek has a bitter-sweet flavor but leaves a caramel or maple-like aftertaste.  A component in manyIndian dishes, fenugreek also can be addedto curry powders.  Or, it may be used toflavor artificial maple syrups.  Use sparingly;the flavor of fenugreek can be overpowering.
Ginger (Gin gerroot)
In fresh form, the knobby gingerroot’s peel
is discarded and its flavorful flesh is sliced,chopped, or minced and added to dishesfor its peppery, sweet, and pungent flavor.The dried form is ground from the gingerroot.  This brownish gold spice has a warm,slightly sweet, slightly citrus  flavor.  FreshJuniper berries give gin its flavor.  Berriesshould be crushed before they are used.
Licorice Root
From this woody plant licorice flavor isextracted and used in candy and medica-tions.  The extract also may be used to colorand thicken stout or porter beers.  Thesweet taste of natural licorice extract comesfrom glycyrrhizia, a naturally occurringchemical that, if ingested in large quantities,has adverse effects on blood pressure.  Forthis reason, in the United States, mostlicorice candy is flavored with anise or isartificially flavored (check labels).
Mace and Nutme g
Both come from the same tree.  Nutmeg is
ground from the seed.  Mace is from theseed’s covering.  Both have a sweet, warmflavor.  Mace is somewhat more pungent.Favorites in baked goods and fruit dishes,mace and nutmeg can also enhance theflavor of stewed beef or poultry or can beadded to baked vegetables.  Nutmeg is akey spice in a holiday classic, eggnog.  Bothare excellent toppings for the foamed milkon espresso coffee drinks.
Mustard
Mustard seeds can be used in pickling foods.Ground seeds can be added to sauces or toadd zip to salad dressings.  The condimentcan be eaten on meat and fish and added tosalad dressings or mayonnaise.  Keep preparedmustard in the refrigerator to preserve itsflavor.  For a different flavor, look for mustardvarieties made with wine or vinegar.
Paprika
Bright russet-orange in color, paprika ismade from ground sweet red peppers.Depending on the variety, paprika mayadd either a mild, sweet flavor or hotginger is popular in Asian and Indian cui-sine.  Ground ginger also is used in manybaked goods and desserts.  Ginger is thebasis for ginger beer and ginger ale.  Pickledginger root is an Asian delicacy and is oftenserved with sushi.  
Gingerroot is sold at many supermar-
kets, and it is easy to add fresh, grated gin-ger to dishes.  Although fresh ginger canbe substituted for the dried form, do notsubstitute dried in place of fresh becausethe flavors are quite different.
Juniper Berry
The hard purple berries of an evergreenbush, juniper berries have a turpentine-likeflavor.  Juniper berries add a spicy, pungentflavor to game, red cabbage, or meat stews.
Herbs & Spices 373
warmth to food.  Widely used in Hungarian
and Spanish dishes, paprika adds flavor
and color to potatoes, soups, baked fish,and salad dressings.  Hungarian paprika isconsidered the finest and can be purchasedin specialty shops.  A note of caution:  itmay be hotter in flavor than other types of
paprika.
Pepper
Pepper is one of the world’s most commonspices and one of its most versatile.  Used innearly every culture, pepper is a condimentGreen pepper — Typically sold
canned, green peppercorns are green pep-
per berries that are harvested before theymature.  They are mild in flavor.
Black pepper — These peppercorns
are pepper berries harvested just as they areabout ready to turn red.  Black pepper isthe most flavorful of all pepper varieties.It is often sold ground, although many con-noisseurs prefer to grind their own with apepper mill. 
White pepper —This milder pepper is
made from peppercorns that have turnedfound on tables worldwide.  Ground orwhole, it can add a kick to nearly any dish,adding warmth and texture with just theright amount of subtlety.  It is a popularaddition to soups, stews, cheeses, marinades,and luncheon meats.
Pepper is actually the fruit of the pep-
per plant, which is a vine indigenous toIndia.  Small white flowers on the plantproduce peppercorns.  They turn variouscolors — green, red, then brown — as theymature and can be harvested and used atany time during their ripening stage.Vinegar is used in almost every culture as a condiment.  It can
be made from a wide range of foodstuffs — from grains, fruits,wine, or even ethyl alcohol.  Essentially, the process to turn anyof these into vinegar is the same.  Bacteria is added to an alcoholsolution to convert the alcohol in acetic acid.  The liquid isthen processed and pasteurized to kill any organisms in it thatmight be harmful to humans.  It also may be distilled before itis bottled for consumer use.
Vinegar's tart, acidic flavor makes it a versatile ingredient.
It is often used to make vinaigrette dressings, mustards, ormarinades, as a condiment for seafood, or to flavor dishes inwhich beans are the primary ingredient.  In addition, it can be used to pickle and preserve foods.
How vinegar is used depends on what type it is:Balsamic vinegar — Considered the finest of all vinegars,
balsamic vinegar is added to salads, pasta, and cooked vegetables.It has a dark color and rich flavor with herbal and wine under-tones.  Balsamic vinegar is traditionally made in northern Italyin the provinces of Modena and Reggio.  Look for the word“tradizionale” on the label.  This indicates that the vinegar hasbeen aged at least 12 years.  Balsamic vinegar from Modena thatuses the term “vecchio” on the label means the vinegar has beenaged 12 years or more.  “Extra vecchio” is vinegar that is 25years old or more.  The vinegars from Reggio are color-codedaccording to quality: red label (highest), silver, and gold.  These“real” balsamic vinegars are expensive.  Commercial balsamicvinegars are not regulated and are quite different.  Some chefsenhance the flavor of the vinegar by adding brown sugar or byboiling it to intensify its flavor.Cider vinegar — As the name suggests, this vinegar is
derived from fr uit juices — usually apple.  It retains an apple
flavor and is often used for pickling.
Malt vinegar — This type of vinegar is made from malted
barley.  Malt vinegar is typically colorless.  However, browncoloring is often added.  It has a strong, sour flavor and isfrequently used as a condiment for fish and chips.
Rice vinegar — Made from sake, a Japanese rice wine, rice
vinegar is used in many sweet-and-sour recipes for Asian cuisine.
Wine vinegar — This type of vinegar can be made from
various red or white wines.  It is thought to have the most“bite” of any vinegar.  Wine vinegar is most often used as aningredient in cooking, particularly soups and stews.
Flavored vinegars are popular in gourmet shops.  But it is
easy to make your own.  Choose your herbs, preferably freshones, blanch them, and pat dry.  T ransfer the herbs to a foodprocessor and then add 1/2 to 2/3 cup of vinegar, one with aless intense flavor.  Process until you have achieved the desiredconsistency.  T ransfer the mixture back into the bottle of vinegar.Let the mixture sit overnight, and then strain the vinegar beforeputting it back into the original container.  A sprig of yourchosen herb can be added to the bottle for decoration.  Althoughvinegar is acidic and is pasteurized, introducing herbs doescontaminate it.  The risk for illness is not high.  Make flavoredvinegar in small amounts, refrigerate it, and use it within a week to maintain freshness.  Or, better yet, purchase one ofmany commercial varieties, which have been heat-treated.
VINEGARred and therefore are ripe.  The dark outer
shell of the berries is removed before the
pepper is processed.  White pepper is also
typically sold ground.
Other types of pepper you may find are
gray pepper and pink pepper.  Gray peppercan be a mix of white and black pepper,although it can be a black pepper that hasbeen minimally processed.  It typically hasa mild flavor.  Pink pepper is not made fromthe berries of the pepper plant.  Instead, itis derived from a South American shrub
that is a member of the ragweed family.  Its
flavor is more subtle than that of pepper. 
For maximal flavor, buy peppercorns
whole and grind them yourself.  Groundpepper may have undesirable additives.  Anadvantage to buying whole peppercorns isthat they can be kept for months at roomtemperature.  In contrast, ground pepperkeeps its kick for 3 months or less. 
Saffron
One of the most expensive spices, this goldenred spice is made from the powdery stigma374 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
than table salt and may contain other chem-
icals — such as magnesium and calcium
— found naturally in sea water.
Kosher salt — This coarse-grained salt
is often sprinkled over baked goods or sal-ads.  It contains no additives, and many sayit tastes less salty than table salt (althoughit has the same amount of sodium as tablesalt).  It is made and processed in compli-ance with guidelines set forth by the Jewishreligion.
Rock salt — This salt is mined from
natural deposits in the earth’s surface.  Tablesalt is typically refined from rock salt. 
Seasoned salt — Spices, herbs, or other
agents may be mixed with salt to make aseasoned, salty product.  Most of theseproducts are made up primarily of salt. 
Salt plays a key role in many different
functions of the human body.  However, toomuch of it can be harmful to your health. 
Eating salt in moderation can be difficult.
Many foods contain some salt naturally.Prepared foods often contain high amountsof sodium, in some cases a thousandof a purple-flowered crocus.  Saffron is used
for soups, seafood, poultry, and rice dishes.
It is a popular seasoning in Indian, Italian,
and Spanish cuisine.  It also can be addedto baked goods.  Saffron needs to be dis-solved in a teaspoon or so of warm waterbefore use.  Powdered saffron may haveother ingredients added to it, and thesereduce its flavor.
Salt
Salt is made of crystallized sodium and chlo-ride and has been used for centuries to addflavor to food and to preserve it.  Today,this condiment can be found on virtuallyevery table in Western nations.
Various salts are available today:Table salt — Often supplemented with
iodine, table salt consists of fine-grainedsalt crystals that may be treated to help itflow freely out of salt shakers. 
Sea salt — Available in both fine and
coarse grains, sea salt is made by evaporat-ing sea water.  It can be used at the table orfor cooking.  It has a bit more of a tang
QUICK TIP
Grinding your own spices is easy, and
the taste makes the effort well worthit.  After buying fresh whole seeds,simply put them into a coffee grinderor pepper mill.  You can intensify theflavor by first lightly toasting the seedsin a skillet.  Another advantage ofgrinding your own spices is that wholeseeds keep longer than ground spices.In addition, you can be sure that nounwanted preservatives or other ingre-dients have been added.  Be sure toclean the coffee grinder or pepper millafter use.  Otherwise, residues may beleft that will affect the taste of otherspices ground in it. milligrams of sodium or more.  Foods high
in salt include condiments, pickled foods,
canned vegetables, convenience foods, and
cured meats.  Always look at the label toensure you know how much salt you aregetting.
One simple but important step to cut
back on salt is to taste your food first beforeadding salt to it.  Too often, salting is areflex, not a necessity.  A better strategy forreducing salt in your diet is to cut backgradually and reduce or eliminate preparedfoods altogether. 
Sesame Seeds 
The tiny flat seeds of a plant native to India,sesame seeds have a nutty, slightly sweettaste.  Sesame seeds are used as a toppingfor bread and crackers.  A paste made fromthe seeds (tahini) is combined with chick-Herbs & Spices 375
turmeric is added to potatoes and light-
colored vegetables for both taste and its
yellowish orange color.  T urmeric can be
substituted for saffron. 
Vanilla
A spice usually sold in liquid form, vanillais extracted from the dried seed pods  (beans)
of a tropical plant belonging to the orchid
family.  It has a sweet, rich scent and flavor.Added to cookies, cakes, and other bakedgoods, vanilla is a widely used flavoring forice cream, desserts, and coffees.  Check thelabel to make sure you are getting real vanil-la extract.  Real vanilla extract, which hasfar more flavor than synthetic vanilla fla-vorings, is also much more expensive.“Vanilla” brought back from tropical areasmay contain coumarin, a harmful sub stance
that can cause kidney and liver damage. peas to make hummus.  Toast seeds before
using them to enhance their flavor.
Szechuan Peppercorns
Despite the name, these dried berries arenot related to traditional black peppercorns.They come from a type of ash tree and havea peppery, somewhat citrus taste.  Popularin Chinese cuisine, Szechuan peppercorns
often are mixed with salt or used as a fla-voring for cooking oils.  This flavored oilalso can be used as a salad dressing.Although growing in popularity, Szechuan
peppercorns may be available only at storesspecializing in Asian foods.
T urmeric
Deep yellow in color, this spice is madefrom a root related to ginger.  It has a sharp,woodsy taste.  Widely used in Indian cuisine,377
Beverages
Basics
In the world of science, water is referred toas the universal solvent.  This label is clearin practical terms in any kitchen or restau-rant.  Served by itself or as part of some-thing else, water is a basic ingredient in allbeverages. 
Throughout history, water has been
heated, chilled, brewed, carbonated, hadherbs and other flavorings steeped in it, orbeen added to other ingredients and fer-mented.  The result is a rich array of bev-erages to choose from: 
Coffee —Brewed from the roasted beans
of the semitropical coffee plant, coffee isenjoyed around the world, and each cul-ture offers a different variation on this basicbeverage.Tea—Another beverage that crosses cul-
tural lines, tea is water that is heated withdried leaves from the evergreen shrubCamellia sinensis .  A variation is herbal tea,
in which herbs such as chamomile are used. 
Juice —The liquid squeezed from fruits
and vegetables has been enjoyed as a bev-
erage throughout history. 
Soda pop —A beverage of the modern
age, this highly sweetened carbonated drinkis popular despite its nutritional drawbacks.It’s high in sugar and calories and has noappreciable nutrients in it. 
Wine —At its most basic, wine is sim-
ply fermented grape juice, which of courseis made up mainly of water.  There are thou-sands of variations of this ancient alcoholicdrink.Beer—Another international beverage,
beer is water brewed with yeast, hops, andother ingredients to yield a carbonated, alco-holic drink with a distinctive taste and yeastysmell that is enjoyed around the globe.
Of course, water itself should not be
overlooked as a beverage.  Served through-
out history to quench thirst and comple-ment meals, water is now available in a myr-iad of forms, from bottled to carbonated tostraight from the tap.  The numerous vari-eties of water sold commercially make it easy
to enjoy this clear, colorless, calorie-free, andmost ancient of all beverages. 
Nutrition
The calories and nutritional content of bev-erages depend on what has been added toBeverages are used to quench thirst in everyday settings.  At meals, they make a flavorful complement for foods.  Special occasions are marked by toasts of 
a favorite beverage.  Drinking coffee, tea, soda pop, juice, or water is often used todesignate breaks during an ordinary workday.  Beverages are as diverse as the culturallandscape worldwide.
Like the food choices we make, the choosing of beverages plays a crucial role in
our health.  Drinking enough water, for example, is critical for many different bodyprocesses and thus is vital for good health.  In contrast, beverages high in calories, fat, or sugar can contribute to obesity, tooth decay, and other health problems.Those high in caffeine, a chemical stimulant, can have other health drawbacks if consumed in excess.  Beverages high in alcohol can affect our judgment and coordination and may even be addictive. 
Perhaps at no other point in time has there ever been such a wide variety 
of beverages available. To help you make the most healthful choice, the 
following sections contain information about many of the mostwidely used beverages (information about milk is contained inDairy Foods, page 345).378 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
introduced in the late 1700s and is con-
sidered the forerunner of soda pop.
Soda water —A carbonated water that
contains sodium bicarbonate.
Club soda —The same as soda water
except that mineral salts have been added.
Tonic water —Tonic water has been
carbonated and flavored with fruit extracts,sugar, or quinine.
Most water sold commercially comes
in handy storage containers—usually cansor tightly sealed bottles.  Water in these
containers can be kept indefinitely, chilled
or in the pantry.  Be sure not to let con-tainers freeze, particularly carbonated typesof water.  Unlike other substances, water’svolume expands when it freezes.  The result-ing ice will break the container. Water
Concerns about the safety of tap water have
resulted in a burgeoning market for bottled
water, making it one of the most widely
sold commercial beverages.  Within the cat-egory of bottled water, there is a vast arrayof water types from which to choose.  TheU.S. Food and Drug Administration(FDA), which regulates bottled water,classifies them in this way: 
Artesian water —This type of water is
drawn from a confined aquifer (a rock  for-
mation containing water that stands above
the natural water table).
Distilled water —This is water that has
been evaporated and then condensed, leav-ing it free of dissolved minerals.
Purified water —Purified water has
been demineralized.  It is produced bydeionization (passing it through resins) or
by reverse osmosis (passing it through
filters to remove dissolved minerals).Distilled water is also considered purifiedwater.
Mineral water —Water that contains
no less than 250 parts per million (ppm)of totally dissolved, naturally occurringsolids or minerals.  Mineral water can belabeled “low mineral content” (less than500 ppm) or “high mineral content” (morethan 1,500 ppm).
Spring water —Spring water is
obtained from an underground formationfrom which water flows naturally to thesurface.  It also can be collected through abore drilled into the spring.
Sparkling water —Another name for
carbonated water, sparkling water containscarbon dioxide gas that is in it naturally orhas been added to it.
Seltzer water —A type of sparkling
water. The name comes from the town ofNieder Selters in Germany. Seltzer wasthe water that is their basic ingredient or
the process that the water has been through.For example, drinks high in sugar are also
high in calories.  Alcoholic drinks are also
high in calories.
The most important nutritional infor-
mation to remember about beverages, how-ever, is how vital water is to your healthand that most people do not drink enoughwater.  The recommended daily amount iseight 8-ounce glasses of water.
To understand why water is so impor-
tant, consider that your body is one-halfto four-fifths water.  Every system in yourbody depends on water.  Water regulatesyour body temperature, removes wastes,carries nutrients and oxygen to your cells,cushions your joints, helps prevent consti-pation, aids kidney function, and helps dis-solve vitamins, minerals, and other nutri-ents to make them accessible to your body.
Lack of water can lead to dehydration.
Even slight dehydration can sap yourenergy, contribute to headaches, and makeyou feel lethargic.  Dehydration poses aparticular health risk for the very youngand very old. 
You lose about 10 cups of fluid a day
through sweating, exhaling, urinating, andbowel movements.  Exercising or engagingin any activity that causes you to perspireincreases your daily water requirement, asdoes hot, humid, or cold weather and highaltitudes.  Some beverages, such as thosewith caffeine and alcohol, are dehydrating,so if you drink them, you need even morewater to compensate.
Stora ge and Selection
Storage and selection of beverages dependon what it is you plan to drink.  The follow-ing sections provide this information andmore for some of the most common andwidely used beverages.
Preparation Tips
Most tap water in the United States is safe
to drink.  T ry serving tap water with ice anda slice of lemon or lime, which gives thewater a pleasing taste.  Prices for bottledwater range a great deal.  Generally, howev-er, less expensive types of bottled water com-pare favorably with more expensive versions.  
Servin g Suggestions
Water is an excellent beverage for any occa-
sion.  T ry serving sparkling water for specialoccasions, putting it in a champagne fluteor wine goblet for added visual appeal.  Foreveryday occasions, make water the defaultbeverage you choose.  Soda pop and otherbeverages should be chosen far less frequently.Drink a glass of water when you get up, onewith each meal, and another when you goto bed.  Keep a bottle with you during theday or take regular water breaks. Beverages 379
used commercially are one of two main
species: Coffea arabica andCoffea robusta .
Most of the beans used around the world
are arabica beans, which are grown at a highaltitude, require plenty of rainfall, and areconsidered somewhat difficult to cultivate.Robusta beans flourish at lower altitudeswith less intense care.
Arabica beans, however, are thought to
produce the finest flavor.  They are also the
most expensive coffee beans.  For this rea-son, supermarket coffees contain mostly
robusta beans, although some arabica beans
may be mixed in for a richer flavor.  Despite
the less intense flavor of robusta beans, theyhave about twice the caffeine content of
arabica beans (see sidebar:  Decaffeinating
Coffee Beans, page 380).
Coffee beans can be roasted, ground,
mixed, brewed, and flavored in various ways.Coffee
Coffee beans are actually the seeds of a cherry-like fruit of the semitropical coffee plant,which is grown in Brazil, Colombia,Indonesia, and parts of Africa and CentralAmerica.  The seeds are separated from thecoffee fruit and then roasted.  During roast-ing they acquire the rich, dark-brown color(a result of caramelization, melting, andsubsequent browning of sugars in the beans)most people associate with coffee beans.Roasting time affects both the flavor andthe color of coffee beans.  Generally, thedarker the beans, the longer they have beenroasted.  Longer roasted beans also typi-cally have the most intense flavor. 
There are dozens of varieties of coffees,
many of them named after their countryor port of origin.  However, all coffee beansSAFETY OF TAPWATER
Many Americans are concerned about
the safety of their tap water, which has led to a dramatic increase in salesof water filtration systems and bottledwater.
Most tap water, however, is fine.
It is regulated by the EnvironmentalProtection Agency (EPA) for safetyand purity and chlorinated to destroymost organisms that can spreaddisease.  However, small amounts of microbiological and chemical contaminants are allowed within EPA limits of safety or when watertreatment equipment breaks down.
The EPA requires public suppliers
to notify consumers if water frompublic supplies does not meet safetystandards.
Common coffee drinks :  café latte, perked coffee, espressoThe result?  Numerous specialty coffee drinks
for coffee connoisseurs to choose from:
Espresso— This dark, strong, and con-
centrated coffee is made by forcing hotwater through coffee that is very finelyground, darkly roasted, and specially blend-ed.  It is so rich that when served unadorned,only a small quantity is needed.  Thus,espresso usually is served in a tiny cup, oftenreferred to as a demitasse.  Espresso also
may be the foundation of other specialtycoffee drinks.A welcome consequence is that excellent
coffee can be made at home.  The outcome
of home brewing, although somewhat
dependent on the equipment you own, isaffected mainly by the type of coffee youbuy.  Perhaps the best thing you can do toensure a good cup of coffee is to buy fresh,whole beans, grinding them just beforebrewing.  Follow grinding instructions onyour grinder carefully, paying particularattention to recommended grind times.
Avoid beans or preground coffee packed
in the large, traditional round canisters.
This packing method almost always allowssome oxygen into the container, which cancause the coffee to become stale.  Instead,look for coffee sold in vacuum-packed bags,which have a mechanism that allows gas inthe container to escape but does not let any in.380 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Café au lait— From the French for
“coffee with milk,” café au lait is made with
equal parts of regular coffee and scalded
milk.  In France and Quebec, café au laitis considered a morning tradition. 
Café latte —Very similar to café au lait,
this coffee beverage is equal parts of foamysteamed milk and espresso.
Café mocha— More dessert than bev-
erage, café mocha is made with espresso,
chocolate syrup, and foamy, steamed milk.The chocolate syrup adds considerable calo-
ries to this coffee drink.
Cappuccino— This is espresso topped
with the creamy foam from steamed milk.Some of this milk may be added to theespresso.  Sometimes sweetened cinnamon,cocoa, or vanilla powder is sprinkled overthe foamed milk.
Turkish coffee —An intensely flavored
coffee beverage, T urkish coffee is made bybringing finely ground coffee to a boilseveral times.  Sugar, water, and spices suchas cinnamon or cardamom can be added.The flavor of T urkish coffee is so rich thatonly a small quantity is served. 
The growing interest in specialty coffees
has spurred an interest in the types of coffeebeans used at home for the regular brew.Once, only gourmands bought whole beansand ground them at home.  Now, coffeegrinders are considered routine kitchenaccessories.  Specialty coffee makers are alsobecoming more commonplace. 
DECAFFEINATING COFFEE BEANS
Virtually all coffee beans naturally
contain caffeine, a chemical stimulantthat can increase heart rate and bloodpressure and act as a diuretic and mayhave some addictive properties. 
There are several ways to remove
the caffeine from coffee beans.  Onemethod uses a solvent to removecaffeine chemically.  The beans arewashed afterward to remove thesolvent.  Roasting also removes anytraces.  A second method is the Swisswater process, in which steam is usedto heat the beans.  Then, the outerlayer of the beans, which containsmost of the caffeine, is scraped off.
The Sanka brand of coffee, introduced
in the early part of the 20th century,was the first caffeine-free coffee devel-oped in the United States.  Its namecomes from the French term “sanscaféine,” which means without caffeine. WHATISINSTANT COFFEE ?
Instant coffee (almost always madefrom robusta beans) is simply freshlybrewed liquid coffee that has beendehydrated into a powder.  Addingwater to this powder rehydrates thecoffee, thus resulting in a quick, ifperhaps less flavorful, cup of coffee.Powder particles are processed to lookmore like traditional coffee grounds.
Some instant coffee brands are
freeze-dried.  This means that thecoffee solution was frozen to extractthe water from it.  The resultingproduct looks more like traditionalcoffee grounds and has a richer flavor. 
French press 
coffee maker
French press coffee :  mix fresh ground
coffee and hot water; steep for 3 to 4minutes.  The lid has a screen thatpushes the grounds to the bottom.At home, store coffee at room temper-
ature and try to use it as soon as possible.  If
you use coffee from a can and it will be
open for more than 2 weeks, place it in anairtight container in the refrigerator.  If thecan will be open for more than 1 month,place the coffee in an airtight container inthe freezer.  Return the coffee to the refrig-erator or freezer immediately after mea-suring the amount you will use.
Preparation Tips
In addition to using fresh beans and grind-ing them just before brewing, other waysto improve the flavor of home-brewedcoffee are the following:
Start off with clean equipment —Oil
residues from previous batches of coffeecan cling to equipment and affect flavor—particularly if flavored coffee was used. 
Use fresh, cold water— Using hot
water will result in flatter-tasting coffee.Also, make sure the water is free of miner-als or other chemicals.  If you don’t like thetaste of your tap water, consider using fil-tered or bottled water. 
Use the right amount of coffee— For
traditional coffee-brewing machines,1 tablespoon of coffee grounds is recom-mended for each 6 ounces of water.  Adjustthe amount of coffee grounds to yourpreference.
Don’t steep coffee grounds in the
coffee too long— This extracts bitter sub-
stances from the grounds that affect thetaste of the coffee.
Consider the filter— Paper filters may
affect the texture of the coffee.  Considerusing a metal filter in your coffee makerinstead.  Metal filters are available for mosttypes of machines. 
Avoid flavored coffees— Many of these
coffees are made with lower-quality beans.Beverages 381
Tea
Tea is said to be the universal beverage.
Made from the leaves of an evergreen plant(related to the camellia flower) steeped inhot water, this beverage is a part of dailylife from Great Britain to Morocco to
China, where tea is thought to have origi-
nated.  Most of the leaves grown for theworld’s tea are still grown in Asia, althoughsome is produced in the United States.  
All types of teas are made from the
leaves of the same plant, Camellia sinensis .
Typically, finer teas use only the top leafand bud; stronger, coarser brews use theleaves farther down on a branch.  Tea leavesare typically dried after they are picked andthen are broken into fragments, which bringforth the oils that give tea its flavor.  Climate,soil, and processing give tea different tastesand characteristics. Instead of buying them, grind your ownbeans and add coffee flavorings of yourown.  Most coffee shops sell essences andflavorings just for this purpose.
Servin g Suggestions
Coffee complements various foods and can
be served by itself or mixed with other fla-vorings throughout the day.  Coffees withcream or milk are typically consideredmorning coffees, and espresso is considereda beverage for later in the day.  If you are afrequent coffee drinker, keep in mind thatcoffee is high in caffeine (up to 105 mil-ligrams per 6-ounce cup).  In addition,specialty coffees can be high in calories orfat if made with cream or whole milk orflavorings such as chocolate.  Use skim milkinstead of whole milk in coffee drinkswhenever possible.
T ea field382 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
been blended with spices and flavorings to
enhance tea flavor and aroma.  Thousands
of blended teas are available worldwide.
Popular blended teas include English break-fast and Earl Grey.
Herbal teas— Not made from tea leaves,
herbal tea is a tea-like drink made by steep-ing herbs, flowers, and spices in heatedwater.  Herbal tea has been made through-out history, often for medicinal purposes orsimply to make water taste better.  Popularherbal teas are made from chamomile, rosehips, and mint, to name just a few.  InFrance, herbal teas are referred to as “tisanes.”Herbal teas typically contain no caffeine. 
Instant tea— Popular in the United
States since the 1950s, instant tea is tea thathas been dehydrated and granulated so thatit dissolves rapidly in water.  Often, it alsocontains sugar and other flavorings. 
Store tea away from heat in a sealed con-
tainer.  Tea keeps for about 6 months.  Afterthat, it loses its flavor and should be discarded.
Preparation Tips
The best tea is made using whole or largefragments of tea leaves, available in manyspecialty tea shops.  Many of these shops alsosell implements, such as mesh containers,which allow tea leaves to infuse their flavorinto water without leaving the leaves behind. 
To make a good cup or pot of tea, start
by using cold, fresh, and filtered water (ifOolong teas— Oolong tea has charac-
teristics of both black and green teas.  Itsleaves are fermented for about half the timeof black tea.  Oolong tea originated in theFukien province of China, where much ofthe world’s production of oolong tea takesplace.  Formosan tea, named for the for-mer name of Taiwan, is considered by manyto be the finest oolong tea.
Blended teas— Often referred to as
English teas, these are black teas that haveThe main types of tea include: 
Green tea— A favorite in Asia, green
tea is so named because the leaves are dried
and fragmented soon after picking.  Teamade from these leaves is mild and fresherin taste than other types of tea.  Because ofthis, green tea usually is not served withmilk or sugar.  Types of green tea includegunpowder, Tencha, and Gyokuro, aJapanese tea also known as pearl dew tea. 
Black tea— Actually a dark reddish
brown tea when it is brewed, the strongly
flavored black tea is popular in Westernnations.  It is the most processed andstrongest flavored tea.  After the leaves arepicked, they are allowed to ferment in theopen sun before being dried.  The size of thetea leaves determines the grading of blacktea.  Common black tea varieties includeCeylon, Assam, and Darjeeling, consideredby many to be the finest black tea. COMPARING CAFFEINE CONTENT
Brewed beverage Caffeine content 
(6-ounce cup) (in milligrams)
Green tea 25
Black tea 35Coffee 105
FASTFACT
Although the English are known fortheir love of tea, ingenious Americansinvented the tea bag and began thepractice of drinking iced tea in theearly 1900s. 
you don’t like the taste of your tap water).
Heat the water to a simmer—do not boil—remove from heat, and add the tea.  Steepingguidelines are generally 1 teaspoon of teaper cup of water, but the amount may varyaccording to the type of tea used.  Green teasusually need to be steeped in water for 1 to2 minutes, and black teas may require 3 to4 minutes.  Avoid oversteeping.  More than5 minutes can make all types of tea bitter. 
Servin g Suggestions
Tea is an excellent beverage at any time of
the day.  Black teas are typically served atbreakfast, often with milk and sweeteners.Herbal teas typically do not contain thestimulant caffeine and thus are excellentchoices in the evening.  One note of caution:tea itself contains no calories.  However,lighteners or sweeteners added to it can addBeverages 383
resulting concentrated liquid is frozen, and
then rehydrated.  It may be considered 100
percent juice if the amount of water added
back to the concentrate does not exceedFDA guidelines for 100 percent juice.
Not from concentrate— The most
expensive kind of juice in the supermarket,this is juice that does not have added wateror sweeteners.  Nor has it been reduceddown to a concentrate and then rehydrated.
Other terms to look for on labels
include cocktail, punch, drink, or bever-age— These may signify that only a small
percentage of actual juice was used.  It alsousually indicates that sweeteners were added.
Preparation Tips
Numerous juicing machines are availableon the market, many of them relativelyinexpensive.  T ry making your own juiceat home with one of these machines.  Notonly do you guarantee that you are gettinga pure product but also you can experimentwith different combinations of fruits.Orange and pineapple, for example, makea tasty, tangy fruit juice.  Carrot juice canbe blended with juice from vegetables orfruits for an extra-nutritious drink.  Whenchoosing fruits at the supermarket, choosethose that are sold during their peak sea-son and are properly ripened.
Servin g Suggestions
Juice makes an excellent addition to any
meal.  To reduce the amount of caffeineyou consume, try substituting juice forcoffee at coffee breaks.  If you don’t want
to make your own juice at home, numerous
juice combinations are available at the
supermarket.  Check the label to make sureyou are getting fruit juice and not sweet-
ened water, however.a significant amount of calories and fat.
Minimize fat and calories by using skim
milk.  In addition, afternoon tea, an old
but widespread tradition, often includesbaked sweets such as scones or cookies.Keep your tea break healthful by limitingthese sweets.  Serve fruit or slices of whole-grain bread instead.
Juice
Compared with the numerous beveragesavailable today, juice remains a nutritiouschoice.  It retains most of the nutrients (vit-amins, minerals, and phytochemicals) inthe original fruit or vegetable, although itmay also be higher in calories and sugarthan many suspect.  There are 175 caloriesin 12 ounces of apple juice, for example,and 230 calories in grape juice.  Apple juicehas 45 grams of fructose, a naturally occur-ring form of sugar, and grape juice has 57grams of this sugar.  Tomato juice contains62 calories in a 12-ounce serving; however,it also contains 1,314 milligrams of sodium.If you are monitoring your sodium intake,always check labels of vegetable-based juices. 
In addition, be aware that not all juices
sold today are all juice.  Some may be 100percent fruit juice, but other brands mayhave juice mixed with water or simply bewater with added sugar and flavoring.  TheU.S. Food and Drug Administration reg-ulates the terms used on juice labels andrequires manufacturers to state the per-centage of pure juice used in the product. 
Terms consumers may encounter
include:
100 percent juice —These juices do
not contain added water. 
From concentrate— This juice has
undergone processing to remove most ofthe water from the original fruit juice.  TheTEAS AND POSSIBLE HEALTH
BENEFITS
Tea has been consumed throughout
history for its supposed curativepowers, and medical research nowsuggests that there are health benefitsfrom drinking green and black teas.
Several studies show an association
between consumption of green teaand reduction in the risk for cancerand heart disease.  Green tea naturallycontains chemical compounds calledpolyphenols.  Within this family ofcompounds are chemicals that appearto play a role in cell growth and pro-grammed cell death, which could beimportant in preventing and control-ling cancer.  Polyphenols also areantioxidants that can help prevent cell damage and may help prevent formation of plaque in the arteries.Soda Pop
Once soda pop was the exception rather
than the rule when it came to choosing abeverage.  Now, it is virtually the defaultbeverage for adults and children alike.  Infact, some studies indicate that soda pop
may provide up to 20 percent of teens’
calories each day.  In addition, up to 20percent of toddlers drink soda pop.
This increased consumption is unfortu-
nate because soda pop is devoid of nutrition.Instead, it is high in calories and, typically,sugar.  One can of regular, nondiet soda pophas between 150 and 200 calories.  It alsohas between 9 and 11 teaspoons of sugarand 30 to 70 milligrams of caffeine.  Thesevalues are only part of the issue, however. 
By choosing soda pop, adults and
children alike are missing out on thenutrients provided by beverages such as juiceand milk.  In fact, many physicians andnutritionists are concerned that today’s teensmay be placing themselves at high risk ofosteoporosis—a bone-thinning disease—as384 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
they grow older because they are not get-
ting enough calcium during their adoles-
cent and early adult years.  Phosphates in
soda pop may cause the body to eliminatecalcium during urination.  There are alsoconcerns about soda pop’s effect on toothdecay because of its high sugar content andsome of the acidic chemicals within it.
Preparation Tips and Servin g
Suggestions
Soda pop has little if any role in a healthful
diet.  If you do decide to drink it, limit itas much as possible.  Selecting caffeine-freeand diet soda pop can eliminate some ofthe nutritional hazards of these beverages,but not all of them.  When eating out,encourage children to order milk.  At home,
make sure there’s a selection of beverages
available—including chilled water—thatwill help family members make morehealthful choices. 
Wine
Wine is the naturally fermented juice ofgrapes or other fruit, vegetables, or grains.It has been a beverage used at meals andcelebrations for thousands of years.  Today,there are vineyards and wineries throughout
the world.
General types of wine include the
following:
Red wines— Typically dry and full-
bodied, common red wines are made froma variety of grapes, including cabernet sauvig-non, merlot, pinot noir, syrah, and sangiovese.
White wines— White wines range
widely in flavor, from dry and tart to sweetand fruity.  They also are made from variousgrapes, including chardonnay, sauvignonblanc, chenin blanc, and riesling.Rosé or blush wines— These wines
also vary in flavor from sweet to tart.  Thesewines are made with red-skinned grapesbut are processed in such a way that thejuice’s contact with grape skins is limited.
Sparkling wine— Sparkling is simply
another way to say bubbly.  Perhaps thebest-known sparkling wine is champagne,although there are numerous other types.
SPORTS DRINKS
So-called sports drinks offer another
beverage alternative, albeit onemarketed mainly at athletes.  Thedrinks contain mostly sugar, water,sodium, potassium, and flavorings.Whether they provide any additionalbenefit to athletes is debatable.  Forhigh-performance athletes, there maybe some benefit from using thesedrinks because they replace sugar andsodium lost during extended periodsof exercise.  Water is still the preferredbeverage for the average person andathlete.  Plus, it has no calories orsugar, which most sports drinks do.  WINESTORAGE
It is not necessary to have a speciallybuilt wine cellar to store wine.Anywhere with a temperature from45° to 65° Fahrenheit is acceptable, as long as the temperature does notfluctuate.  The warmer the tempera-ture, the faster the wine will age.Cork-sealed wines should be stored on their sides to prevent the cork from drying.The flavor of sparkling wines ranges from
slightly sweet to dry.  They usually have a
lighter flavor than traditional wines.
Fortified wines— Brandy or other
liquors may be added to sherry, port, orother dessert wines to increase alcohol inthem.
Aromatic wines— So-named because
they are flavored with herbs or spices.Vermouth is an example of a flavored wine. 
Rice wine— Rice wine is a sweet, gold-
en wine and usually has a low alcohol con-tent.  It is produced by fermenting steamed
rice.  Sake and mirin are two well-knownrice wines.  Rice wine is a frequent part of
Asian cuisine.
Access to and varieties of wine have
increased as vineyards and the art of wine-making have spread throughout the world.Whereas only a few regions of the worldwere thought to produce excellent winedecades ago, consumers now have an arrayof wines—not to mention prices—fromwhich to choose.  Wines from the tradi-tional winemaking areas of France remainexcellent, of course, but they now havecompetition from wines produced inGermany, Italy, Spain, the United States,and Australia.  Less traditional winemak-ing areas such as South America and SouthAfrica also offer enjoyable wines. 
A wine myth that should be dispensed
with is that wines automatically improvewith age.  Wines do need about a year toBeverages 385
be served at a temperature between 50° and
55° Fahrenheit.  Use caution when chill-ing white wine.  Refrigerating it for morethan 2 hours before serving can lower itstemperature too much and blunt its flavor
and aroma.
Servin g Suggestions
Another wine myth is that only certain
types of wine are served with particularfoods.  This is true in that certain types ofwine complement the flavors of cer tain
foods.  Red wine, for example, is excellentwith hearty or spicy meals or with a steak.White wines complement fish or poultry,and dry, tart wines are excellent withdesserts.  However, the vast majority ofdinners are casual enough that it is notnecessary to observe these guidelines.age after their production.  But after that,it is recommended that most white wines bedrunk within 5 to 6 years.  Many red winesimprove with age.  However, the extent ofimprovement depends largely on the qualityof the wine.  For less expensive varieties,age is not always a good thing. 
Wine does complement the flavor of a
variety of foods.  However, it also can behigh in calories.  A 5-ounce glass of winehas 100 to 226 calories.  Some studies showthat phytochemicals in wine may have somehealth benefits (see sidebar:  Alcohol andHealth, page 387).  However, moderation inwine consumption is still recommended.
Preparation Tips
Most red wines should be served at roomtemperature.  White wine generally should
FASTFACT
One of the sources for cream of tartar,
an ingredient used in baking andcandy making, comes from tartaricacid in wine that crystallizes on theinside of wine barrels.  VineyardBeer
Beer is another alcoholic beverage that has
been enjoyed through the ages.  In fact, his-torians believe that brewing began shortlyafter humans started to cultivate grains.Over the centuries, brewing has evolved
into a highly scientific process.
Beer today generally contains about 5
percent alcohol and is brewed from maltedbarley and grains such as corn or rye andflavored with hops.  Yeast also is used forfermentation.  The quality of the waterstrongly influences beer’s flavor and char-acter because 90 percent of beer’s volumeis water. 
The many varieties of beer include the
following:386 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Fruit beer —Fruit beers are mild beers
with concentrated fruit juice added.  A
popular fruit beer in the United States is
made with cranberries.
Lager —This clear, golden brew is an
American favorite.  It is stored in casks untilsediment and residues left from the brew-ing process settle out.  The residue is thenremoved.  
Malt liquor —Despite the name, malt
liquor is a beer, one that has a higher per-centage of alcohol (up to 9 percent) than
other types of beer.  In comparison, most
beers have an alcohol content, by weight,
from 5 to 8 percent.  
Pilsner, or pilsener —This is a pale,
light lager beer that was originally brewedin Pilsen in the Czech Republic.  The termis now used to describe most pale, mild-flavored lager beer.
Porter— The addition of roasted malt
gives this beer its dark color and strong
flavor.  Porters may have a higher alcohol
content than regular beer.
Stout— Another favorite of the pubs in
England and Ireland, stout has a strong,bittersweet flavor and a dark-brown color.Roasted barley helps give this beer itscharacter.  Guinness is a well-known formof stout.
Wheat beer— Sometimes known as
“weitzen,” which is German for wheat beer,this type of beer has a pale-gold color anda mild flavor similar to that of a lager.  It ismade from malted wheat, which is why itis named wheat beer.
Light beer— Largely an American
creation, light beer has fewer calories thanregular beer and less alcohol.  Nonalcoholicforms of beer also are available.
Unlike wine, beer is best soon after it
is produced.  Beer connoisseurs believe thatbeer older than 2 months should not beserved.  Beer manufacturers in the UnitedAle—Usually strongly flavored with a
bitter taste, ale is popular in the pubs of
England and Ireland.  Its color ranges fromlight gold to amber.
Bock beer —A full-bodied beer with
a dark color and somewhat sweet taste, bockbeer is traditionally brewed in Germanyin the fall and then drunk in spring cele-brations.
WHATAREHOPS?
Hops are plants that produce cone-like
flowers.  These flowers are dried andthen used in brewing beer to give it abitter but pleasant flavor.  Hop shootsalso can be cooked like asparagus andeaten.
Bock beer
Pilsner beerFruit beerStates recently have begun stamping cans
or bottles with production dates to helpconsumers ensure they are getting freshbeer.  Typically, beer is stored in a cool, darkplace and then chilled before serving.  Beerthat is chilled, warmed, and then chilledagain may lose its flavor.
Beer is relatively high in calories
(between 120 and 150 calories for 12Beverages 387
beer varies according to its type.  Stouts and
ales are often served at room temperature,and lagers typically are chilled.  The mostimportant consideration, however, is thepersonal preference of the person who isdrinking it.  Beer is often a beverage reservedfor snacks and lighter meals, although insome European countries it is a staple atdinner.ounces)—one reason it should be drunk inmoderation.  Other reasons for doing soinclude alcohol’s other health hazards (seesidebar:  Alcohol and Health, above). 
Preparation Tips and Servin g Suggestions
Beer is traditionally served in chilled glass
steins or mugs.  The temperature of theHeavy drinking always carries risks.  But increasingly, studies 
are showing that light drinking (defined as 1 drink or less aday for women and 2 drinks or less a day for men) may havesome health benefits.
Perhaps the most significant benefit is in cardiovascular
health.  Alcohol may help increase levels of high-densitylipoprotein (“good”) cholesterol and may help reduce theclotting that can lead to a heart attack or stroke.  Red winealso is thought to contain phytochemicals (compoundsoccurring in plants) that also may help protect againstcardiovascular disease.
Other studies suggest that light drinking may help protect
against Alzheimer’s disease, senility, and macular degeneration,an eye condition that is the leading cause of blindness inpeople age 65 years or older.
These benefits, however, are far from proved, and more
study is needed to determine the role of light drinking in ahealthful lifestyle.  In addition, the potential benefits comewith some substantial risks.
Any alcohol is hazardous for a pregnant woman and her
developing fetus.  In addition, it is risky for anyone with afamily history of alcohol addiction to use alcohol. Alcohol use has health risks for everyone else.  Alcohol
slows brain activity, which in turn affects alertness and coordi-nation, increasing the risk of falls and accidents while driving.It also can affect sleep and sexual function, increase bloodpressure, and play a role in heartburn.  There is also thehazard of drug interaction, for both over-the-counter andprescription drugs.  In addition, heavy, chronic drinking hasbeen linked with an increased risk of obesity, high bloodpressure, osteoporosis, and cancer of the throat, stomach,colon, and breast.  Addiction is also a risk for anyone whouses alcohol.
For all of these reasons, moderation remains a key part 
of a healthful lifestyle.  If you don’t drink, there’s no healthreason to start doing so.  If you already drink, there’s noreason to stop.  Just continue to enjoy wine, beer, or other
spirits in moderation. 
Type of Alcohol One Drink Equals:
Wine 5 ounces
Beer 12 ounces
80-proof liquor 1.5 ouncesALCOHOL AND HEALTHFats, oils, and sweeteners can enhance the flavor of the food you eat.
However, virtually all health experts agree that intake of these foods shouldbe limited, and certain types (saturated and partially hydrogenated)should be avoided.  This chapter provides information on the various typesof fats, oils, and sweeteners and the foods that contain them.389
Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners
Fats & Oils
Basics
Fats, no matter what their source, play animportant role in the food we eat.  For cen-turies, every culture has taken advantage ofthe unique chemical properties of fats —for example, fats easily absorb other flavors.Fats also are used to cook foods, add a pleas-ing texture, impart tenderness to bakedgoods, and, in societies where food is scarce,increase the calorie content of a food.  Fats,therefore, are a basic ingredient in cooking. 
The term “fats,” however, is broad,
encompas sing many different substances
— from butter to lard to vegetable oil.  Alloils, for example, are fats.  But not all fatsIf there is any food group that we have a love-hate relationship with, it’s fats, oils, and
sweeteners.
On the one hand, these foods play a vital role in our enjoyment of what we eat.  Fats
and oils give a creaminess, richness, crispiness, or pleasing mouth-feel to foods.  Sweetenersalso satisfy a universal and natural craving.  On the other hand, the pleasure that fats, oils, andsweeteners bring can come at a cost.  These foods generally are high in calories, makingit difficult for someone who eats a lot of them to maintain a healthful weight.They also have other health disadvantages.  Too much of the wrong kindsof fats and oils can increase the blood cholesterol level, which in turncan increase risk for cardiovascular disease.  Sugar and highly sweet-ened foods also are typically high in calories and provide fewnutrients.  For that reason, “empty calories” is a term often usedto describe sweeteners or foods rich in them.  Sugar and toothdecay are linked when sugar is eaten in excess and dental hygiene is poor.
The Food Guide Pyramid recognizes both the advantages and
the disadvantages of these foods.  It does not eliminate them.  But it does place them at the verytip of the pyramid.  It’s okay to use these foods as long as they are eaten sparingly.  Making sure fats,oils, and sweeteners play the proper role in your diet involves knowing more about them, their role inthe diet, and what foods are rich in them.  To help you do this, this chapter provides more detailedinformation on the types of fats, oils, and sweeteners you are likely to consume. 
are oils.  Although definitions vary, for
cooking purposes fats are generally charac-terized as follows:
Fats— Generally defined as substances
that are solid at room temperature, fatsinclude butter, cocoa butter, lard, margarine,suet, and vegetable shortening. 
Oils— Oils remain liquid at room tem-
perature.  Oils can be made from variousplants and seeds:  vegetables, olives, rapeseed(from which canola oil is made), sunflowerseeds, corn, peanuts, soybeans, walnuts,almonds, hazelnuts, safflower seeds, grape-seed, sesame seed, mustard seed, and coconutsare among the most commonly used.  
No matter what form they take, fats are
made up of fatty acids, which are themolecular building blocks of fats in the
same way that amino acids combine to formprotein.  At their most basic, fatty acids aremolecular chains of hydrogen, carbon, andoxygen atoms.  The differences in thechemical structure of fats make some betterfor you than others (see Chapter 2, SortingOut the Fats, page 26).  
Sometimes a process called hydrogena-
tion is used to make liquid oils solid at roomtemperature.  This also converts unsatu-rated fat into trans fat.  T rans fats are usedin many processed and fast foods, such asdoughnuts, crackers, chips, and french fries.T rans fats also give margarine its butter-likeconsistency.  T rans fats tend to increase yourcholesterol level and therefore should be390 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
unrefined oils, you will likely appreciate
the difference between these oils and theirmore highly processed counterparts.
Stora ge
The method of storage depends on whethera fat or oil is being stored.  However, bothbecome rancid given enough exposure toair, sunlight, and heat. 
Fats such as butter, margarine, and lard
should be tightly wrapped and refrigerated.They usually can be stored this way for upto 2 weeks.  Extra butter or margarine canbe stored in the freezer for up to 2 years.Hydrogenated vegetable shortening can bestored, tightly covered, at room tempera-ture for as long as 3 months.  
Oils require a slightly different strategy.
They should be stored in airtight containersthat are opaque to prevent light from pen-etrating.  Refrigeration is also generallyrecommended  for oils.  Unopened oils canbe kept this way for up to a year, althoughthey should be used within a few monthsafter they are opened.
Cooler temperatures may cause oil to
look cloudy or congeal.  Removing the oilfrom the refrigerator and allowing it to reachroom temperature should resolve this prob-lem.  An important guideline for evaluatingthe freshness of oil is to trust your nose.  Ifthe oil smells fishy or musty, discard it.
The following sections provide more
information on specific fats and oils. they add up to obesity, you are at increasedrisk for health problems.
Selection
Be discriminating in the type of fat you con-
sume.  Limit animal fat (saturated) and trans
fats (hydrogenated oils).  Instead, use small,sensible amounts of plant-based (monoun-saturated and polyunsaturated) fats.
When purchasing products, always
check the expiration dates.  Rancidity is aconcern with any type of fat. 
Purchasing oils, of which there are
dozens of varieties, involves a close readingof the package label.  Most cooks prefer tobuy “cold pressed” oils, which means thatminimal heat and pressure are used toextract the oil from the original plant orseed.  This type of processing is consideredimportant because it allows oil to maintainmore of the plant’s natural flavors and tex-tures. With the exception of extra-virginolive oil, however, it is difficult to find cold-pressed oils.
A good alternative is to use so-called
unrefined oils.  Unrefined oils are extracted
with heat.  Unlike other oils, unrefined oilsundergo minimal processing after thispoint.  The result is a more flavorful oiland, sometimes, a more darkly colored oil.Unrefined oils generally include virgin oliveoil and corn, nut, soybean, canola, andsesame oils.  Unrefined oils break down eas-ily under heat and thus should not be usedfor deep-frying.  Because deep-fried foodsare not typically part of a healthful diet,you should not have to trade a flavorful oilfor one with more cooking versatility.
Most oils in your supermarket, however,
are not only extracted with heat but alsoundergo much more processing, includingusing chemicals to de-gum, refine, bleach,and deodorize the oil.  The result?  Less flavor.After experimenting with cold-pressed oreaten in only limited amounts (see Chapter
3, Limit T rans Fat, page 66).
Nutrition
Fat is an essential nutrient.  Our bodies
require small amounts of several fatty acids
to build cell membranes and to supportlife-sustaining functions (see Chapter 2,Fat as a Nutrient, page 26).  That said, theold adage about “too much of a good thing”is appropriate in discussing fat.  Virtually allhealth experts agree that fat intake shouldbe limited.  The federal government, theAmerican Heart Association, and otherorganizations recommend that fat intakefor a healthy individual should be less than30 percent of total daily calories.  They alsorecommend that less than 8 to 10 percentof total calories come from saturated fat.
Although various kinds of fat have dif-
ferent effects on your blood cholesterol, allfoods that are high in fat are high incalories.  High-fat foods can easily increaseyour calories, making it difficult to main-tain a healthful weight.  Fat packs more
calorie punch than any other type of nutri-
ent group.  Per gram, fat has 9 calories(about 100 calories per tablespoon, or 250calories per ounce).  In contrast, proteinand carbohydrates have just 4 calories pergram.  Because of this, you do not need toeat very much fat before reaching the 30percent threshold. 
If a low-fat diet is good, is an even
lower-fat diet better?  Not necessarily.Upper limits of fat intake have been estab-lished, but the same is not true for lowerlimits.  Talk with your health care providerabout the recommended fat intake that isbest for you.  Even a low-fat diet can leadto weight gain if you cut back on fat buttake in excess calories by ignoring the restof what you eat.  Too many calories fromany source result in added pounds.  And ifFASTFACT
If you are trying to reduce the fat inyour diet, you are not alone.  Foodconsumption surveys report thatabout two-thirds of American adultseat low-fat or reduced-fat foods andbeverages.Fats
Butter
Butter is made from the fat that comes from
milk from cows, sheep, goats, horses, andother mammals.  Most commercially pro-duced butter in the United States is madefrom cow’s milk. 
Butter making occurs in several stages.
Cream that separates from milk is pasteur-ized (heated at a high temperature) to killany organisms that might be harmful tohuman health.  Then the cream is placed ina ripening tank for 12 to 15 hours.  There,it goes through another series of heat treat-ments that give butter a crystalline struc-ture when it cools, helping it to solidify.
The next step is to churn the butter.
This process breaks down the fat globulesin the cream.  The result is that the fat iscoagulated into butter grains.  The mixtureis then separated, the remaining butter pasteis worked until it is smooth, and, depend-ing on the producer, it may be salted.Further variations in processing influenceits characteristics, including aroma, taste,color, appearance, and quality.  
There are numerous butter variations.
Those you find in gourmet markets includea French butter known as beurre (butter)de Charentes.  Beurre de Charentes has anivory color and tastes very rich.  AnotherEuropean-style butter growing in popular-ity in the United States is ripened butter,traditionally made in Denmark and theNetherlands, which is softer than regularbutter.  It also has a slightly tangy tastebecause lactic acid is added to the creamfrom which it is made.
More common variations include the
following: 
Whipped butter — Whipped butter’s
name is self-explanatory.  It has air beatenFats, Oils, & Sweeteners 391
type in supermarkets, many serious cooks
prefer to use unsalted butter in cooking and
baking.  Unsalted butter is thought to have
a sweeter flavor.  In addition, many cooksprefer to control the salt they add to a dishor baked food.
Both light butter and whipped butter
work well for toppings, but neither can besubstituted for regular butter in recipes forbaked goods because of the air or water theycontain.
Servin g Suggestions
Butter is one of the most versatile cooking
ingredients and the foundation of numerousgourmet foods, sauces in particular.  Its taste
can be enhanced by mixing it with herbs andspices and then refrigerating it again.  Onepopular flavored butter is garlic butter, whichcan be made by creaming the desired amountof butter and mashed garlic cloves to taste.Oregano, marjoram, basil, or parsley also canbe added.  Numerous recipes for flavoredbutter are available in cookbooks.
Butter’s health drawbacks are well
known, however, and thus it should be usedselectively.  If that special dish simply cannotbe made without butter, don’t try to sub-into it.  The result is that it is slightly lowerin fat and calories than regular butter.  It isvery soft and spreadable.
Light butter — Light butter usually has
about half the calories of regular butter.  Italso generally has less fat and less saltbecause water is usually added to it. 
Unsalted butter — This is butter to
which no salt has been added.
Clarified butter — An ingredient in
some recipes, clarified butter is butter thathas the milk solids removed from it.  Theadvantage is that it has a higher smoke pointthan regular butter, which increases itscooking versatility.  It also keeps longer thanbutter and is thought to have a more pureflavor.  Clarified butter is similar to a typeof butter called ghee that is used in India.
Butter should be refrigerated and stored
in opaque packaging that prevents light fromentering.  In addition, the packaging shouldseal in moisture to prevent the butter frombecoming dehydrated, a process that inten-sifies its color and detracts from its flavor. 
Preparation Tips
Should you use salted butter or unsalted?Although salted butter is the most commonWHATISA NOIL’SSMOKE POINT,ANDWHYDOESITMATTER ?
An oil’s smoke point is simply the point at which fat, when heated, starts to smoke,smell acrid, and, as a result, give an unpleasant flavor to food. 
Each type of oil has a different smoke point.  It is dependent on the free fatty
acids that make up the oil.  The higher the oil’s smoke point, the higher the tem-perature it can withstand.  Safflower and canola oils have the highest smoke pointand are the most ideal for frying or sautéing (435° to 450° Fahrenheit).  Olive oilhas a lower smoke point and is best used in salad dressings (extra virgin, 250°Fahrenheit) or in baking (regular olive oil, 410° Fahrenheit).
Beyond the bad flavor imparted to foods, there are health reasons to avoid
using an oil that has reached its smoke point.  High temperatures can cause the oilsto decompose, and this process, in turn, can irritate the lungs and cause gastroin-
testinal upset.HOW TO “CLARIFY ” BUTTER
To make clarified butter, start by
cutting unsalted butter into smallpieces.  Melt the butter over lowheat for 10 to 15 minutes.  Thisallows the fat to separate from themilk solids.  Then gently pour orspoon off the clarified butter fat anddiscard the solids.  After the fatcools, it may appear to have a grainytexture.  Clarified butter keepslonger than regular butter becausethe milk solids have been removed.It generally is used only for cookingbecause it has the advantage ofhaving a higher smoke point thanregular butter.  Thus, it can beheated to higher temperatures, without burning, making it a goodchoice for frying or sautéing.healthier choice than harder “stick” mar-garines because the hydrogenation processused to make margarine hard adds transfats to the product.  When buying mar-garine, check the label and avoid productswhose labels include these terms:  “partiallyhydrogenated” or “hydrogenated.”  Instead,look for margarines whose main ingredientterms include “liquid” oils.
Preparation Tips
Generally, only regular margarine shouldbe used for cooking and baking.  Liquid,whipped, or reduced-fat versions of thisproduct burn easily or contain too muchwater or air for these purposes.  Margarineshould be stored in the refrigerator and canbe frozen for several months.
Servin g Suggestions
Hard or stick margarine is a good choicefor pastries, helping to make crusts lightand flaky.  It can be used to replace butterin most recipes, although its flavor may notbe as rich as that of butter.  Like butter, thistype of margarine has health drawbacks —it is high in calories and trans fats that arelinked with heart disease — and should beused in moderation. 
Lard
Lard is simply a name for pure animal fatthat has been processed, including filter-ing, bleaching, hydrogenation, and emul-sification.  Lard used in cooking is typicallyrendered from pork fat.  Lard rendered fromthe fat around the pig’s kidney is consideredthe best lard to use.
Lard is used worldwide in cooking,
although it fell out of favor in the UnitedStates during the past several decadesbecause of the amount of saturated fatin it. 392 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Reduced-fat or nonfat mar garine —
These products contain 25 to 65 percent less
fat than regular margarine.  To reduce fat lev-
els, modified margarines and spreads are cre-ated with varying amounts of water andthickening agents, such as gelatin, rice starch,and guar gum.  Some margarines even makehealth claims (see Chapter 3, sidebar:Cholesterol-Lowering Margarine? page 66).
Butter -mar garine blends — Designed
to add butter flavor, these products areusually 40 percent butter and 60 percentmargarine.
Soft mar garine — These margarines are
usually made from only vegetable oil andhave been processed to stay soft and spread-able when cold.
Whipped mar garine — This has had
air beaten into it, making it fluffy and easyto spread. 
Liquid mar garine — Liquid margarine
comes in squeezable bottles, making it con-
venient for picnics and other events away
from home.  It is specially blended so that it
does not become too thick to squeeze out of
the bottle.  It is also handy for basting andfor foods such as corn on the cob and waffles.
Like butter, regular margarine is about
80 percent fat (actually, law requires thispercentage of fat for the product to belabeled margarine) and has the same num-ber of calories.  One tablespoon containsabout 100 calories and 11 grams of fat. 
For years, margarine was thought to be
a much healthier choice than butter becauseit contains less saturated fat than butter andno cholesterol (because it is not made fromanimal fat).  Although that’s true, margarineis high in trans fats, which also are linkedto cardiovascular disease.  In addition, mar-garine is high in calories.  Therefore, itshould be used in moderation.
Softer margarines, such as those  that
are liquid or sold in tubs, are considered astitute something else.  Instead, save the
dish for special occasions.
Margarine
Hydrogenation, the process used to make
liquid oils solid at room temperature, madepossible a shift from animal fat to vegetablefat as a substitute for butter.  The resultingproduct — which may be blended with othermilk products or animal fats (such as lardor tallow) and salt for taste — is margarine.It has been used as a butter substitute sincethe late 19th century.  Sometimes it isreferred to as oleomargarine or oleo.  Oleomeans oil and refers to the vegetable oilbase of margarine. 
In addition to regular margarine, the
dairy case may contain these variations:
Salted or unsalted mar garine — As the
name suggests, salt has been added forflavoring or left out.Lard is usually sold at the supermarket
in the dairy case or near the refrigerated
meat section.  When purchasing lard, make
sure it is tightly wrapped to prevent theproduct from absorbing other flavors.  Lookat the label to determine whether it shouldbe stored at room temperature or in therefrigerator.  Lard also can be frozen if it istightly wrapped.
Preparation Tips
Because lard is softer and oilier than butter
and contains less water, some cooks believe
it is the best choice for making pie crust.
The reduced water content in lard helpsmake the crust especially light, flaky, andcrumbly.
Servin g Suggestions
Because lard is so high in saturated fat, itshould be used sparingly at best. 
Vegetable Shortenin g
Vegetable shortening, usually sold in coffee-
can-sized canisters, is a solid fat made fromvegetable oils.  It gets its name from aproperty all fats have in common: they“shorten” gluten strands in flour-basedproducts, which results in baked goods thathave a tender texture.
Although the base of shortening is oil,
it has undergone a process known as hydro-genation to make the shortening solid atroom temperature.  T rans fatty acids arecreated by hydrogenation.  This type of fatis associated with increased risk for coronaryartery disease.
Preparation Tips
Plain and butter-flavored vegetable short-enings are sold in supermarkets.  Plain short-ening has little taste.  Both types can be usedin place of other fats in baking and cooking. Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners 393
Foods that contain trans fat.saturated fat.  (See Chapter 2, A Comparison
of Fats, page 27.)  Another positive aspect
is that canola oil contains omega-3 fatty
acids, which are thought to play a role inreducing cardiovascular disease. 
Preparation Tips
Because canola oil is relatively bland, somecooks combine it with olive oil to add addi-tional flavor.
Servin g Suggestions
Canola oil is suitable both for cooking andfor salad dressings.  It is also used as aningredient in spreads that can be substi-tuted for butter or margarine.
Coconut Oil
Pressed from the boiled nut meats of freshor dried coconut, coconut oil is one of the
few non-animal highly saturated fats.Servin g Suggestions
Shortening results in baked goods that arelight and fluffy.  Because of the health draw-backs of hydrogenation, however, shorten-ing should be used sparingly. 
Oils 
Cooking Oils
Canola Oil
Canola oil is a bland-tasting oil made from
rapeseed.  Its health advantages over otheroils has made it a popular choice in theUnited States, although it is also usedaround the world.  Elsewhere, it may bereferred to as lear oil or low erucic acid rape-seed oil.
Canola oil is the lowest in saturated fats
of all oils.  Only olive oil has more monoun-394 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Preparation Tips
In the United States, flaxseed oil generally is
not used for cooking purposes.  Instead, the
grassy-tasting oil is often sold at health storesas a supplement.  The oil is more commonlyused elsewhere in the world for cooking,particularly Eastern Europe.  Flaxseed oil’slow saturated fat content means that it ismore prone to rancidity than oils with highersaturated fat content.  Therefore, it shouldalways be stored in the refrigerator. 
Servin g Suggestions
Baking with flaxseed meal is one way toincorporate this healthful oil into your diet.Flaxseed meal is available in the health foodssection of most supermarkets. 
Olive Oil
If there is one oil that gourmands and nutri-tionists agree on, it is olive oil.  Low insaturated fat and rich in heart-healthymonounsaturated fats and flavor, olive oilis an excellent addition to any kitchen andmeal.  Sometimes it is even referred to asthe “king of oils.”sautéing and frying — two cooking meth-
ods that should be used in moderation.Many cooks believe corn oil helps makesautéed foods and fried foods crispier.  
Servin g Suggestions
Corn oil can have a strong flavor, which is
why it is probably best used for cookinginstead of serving “cold,” such as in a saladdressing.  Corn oil’s stronger flavor workswell in margarines, but many people prefer
the taste of reduced-fat or light margarines
made with corn oil. 
Cottonseed Oil
Widely used at the turn of the century,
cottonseed oil often is considered the orig-
inal vegetable oil of the United States.  Its
fat is mostly polyunsaturated.
Preparation Tips
Cottonseed oil is used mainly as salad oilor in cooking.  It is often used in processedfoods because it is inexpensive.
Servin g Suggestions
This oil has a neutral, clean taste that doesnot mask other flavors.  It is used mainly byfood manufacturers and is not common inhome use.
Flaxseed (Linseed) Oil
The tall stems of the flax plant have manyuses:  they contain fibers that can be madeinto linen and high-grade paper.  Oil alsocan be pressed from its shiny brown, oval-shaped seeds.  Flaxseed is also sometimesknown as linseed oil and is a commoningredient in paints, varnishes, and inks.This oil is low in saturated fat and high inomega-3 fatty acids, which may help protectagainst cardiovascular disease. Nearly 90 percent of coconut oil is satu-
rated fat, topping even butter and lard insaturated fat content. 
Although its high saturated fat content
makes coconut oil an unhealthful fat choice,it helps coconut oil resist rancidity.  Coconutoil is a common ingredient in commercialbaked goods, ice cream, and salad dressings.It is particularly common in non-dairy cof-fee creamers and whipped toppings.  Thewhiff of coconut that arises from an openbottle of suntan lotion should also tell youthat coconut oil has nonfood uses.
Preparation Tips
Coconut oil is popular in cuisine fromSoutheast Asia, the Pacific, and the West
Indies.  For these cuisines, cooks often can
substitute a more healthful oil or mix coconutoil with another oil to reduce saturated fat
in a dish.  Be aware that there is coconut oilin coconut cream and coconut milk.
Servin g Suggestions
Because of its saturated fat content, coconutoil should be used sparingly. 
Corn Oil
Corn oil is one of the most widely used cook-ing oils.  It is pressed from the inside (endosperm)of corn kernels.  It is more strongly flavored thanother oils.  Corn oil that has undergone less pro-cessing, known as unrefined corn oil, can befound in specialty stores.  It is more dense thanrefined corn oil and has a darker gold color anda hint of popcorn flavor.  Corn oil has a highlevel of the essential fatty acid linoleic acid andless saturated fat than many other oils.  This isone reason it is used to make margarine. 
Preparation Tips
Because of its high smoke point (410°Fahrenheit), corn oil is commonly used forOne of the first oils to be made by
humans, olive oil is pressed from olives that
are picked when their color turns to pur-
plish black and their skin develops an oilysheen.  The rich flavor of olive oil variesaccording to where the olives are grown andthe type of tree that produces them.  Forexample, Spanish olive oil has a strong,some would say over whelming, flavor.  Oils
produced from California olive trees aresaid to have a mild, almost sweet flavor.
Olive oil from Italy, however, is usually con-
sidered the best.
U.S. consumers can find a wide range
of olive oils in supermarkets and specialtyshops.  Unrefined olive oil, which is lessprocessed, is considered the most flavorfuland has a greenish cast.  Fresh, refined oliveoil should have a sweet, somewhat nuttyflavor and a golden color.  A rule of thumbis that the more deeply colored the oil, themore flavorful it will be. 
Olive oil is also graded by the
International Olive Oil Council in these
ways:
Extra vir gin — Considered the finest
olive oil, extra virgin is made without heator solvents, from the first pressing of theolives.  It is the most flavorful and the mostexpensive, and so it is most often used forseasoning.
Virgin — Also made without heat
or solvents, virgin olive oil also comesfrom the first pressing of the olives.  Itis more acidic but has a less intense flavorthan extra virgin.  It is widely used incooking.
Regular or pure — More subdued in
flavor than virgin olive oil, regular (pure)olive oil is extracted with heat or solventand may be made from pressed olives thathave been washed and treated to extractmore oil from them.  This type of oil isoften blended with virgin olive oil.Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners 395
Italian and Mediterranean cuisines take full
advantage of olive oil’s robust flavor and
health benefits.
Palm Oil and Palm Kernel Oil
Often thought to be the same thing, palm
oil and palm kernel oil are actually two sep-
arate oils.  Palm oil, which is reddish brown,
is extracted from the pulp of the fruit of thepalm.  Palm kernel oil, which is yellowishwhite and has a mild flavor, is extracted fromthe nut or kernel of the palm.  Both, how-ever, have this in common: they are amongthe highest of all oils in saturated fat.
Palm oil is often used in margarine and
in commercially prepared gravies and soups.Light — Don’t be misled by the title
— light olive oil has the same amount ofcalories and fat as regular olive oil.  “Light”refers simply to color, fragrance, and flavor.Light olive oil also may be referred to as“mild.”  Generally, this type of olive oil isdismissed by serious cooks.  It does havethe advantage of having the highest smokepoint of all oils (468° Fahrenheit).
Preparation Tips
Generally, pressing and process-ing are done after the olives arecollected in autumn.Shipments of freshlypressed olive oil beginarriving in specialtystores in the spring.Because most types ofolive oil have a lowsmoke point, olive oilis not suited for deep-frying or sautéing. Thebest-tasting olive oil isthe freshest.
Servin g Suggestions
Olive oil is best used in sauces,salad dressings, and marinades, whereits flavor can be put to full advantage.
Olives, avocados,
peanuts, and theoils made fromthem are a sourceof monounsatu-rated fat.It is also commonly used as a medium to
fry potato chips.  Palm kernel oil has various
uses, including in nondairy creamers, dress-
ings, whipped creams and toppings, bakedgoods, and candy. 
Preparation Tips
Palm kernel oil and palm oil are generally
used only for commercial food productionpurposes.  They are not typically sold insupermarkets or specialty stores.
Servin g Suggestions
Persons following a healthful diet woulddo well to avoid both palm oil and palmkernel oil.  Check the list of ingredients on396 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
the products you buy.  Avoid fatty prod-
ucts that contain these oils.  Skim milk is a
far healthier option for a coffee lightener.
Peanut Oil
One of the first native North American
sources of vegetable oil, the peanut is com-
prised of about 50 percent oil.  This oil is
extracted by pressing steam-cooked peanuts. 
Peanut oil is high in monounsaturated
fat and has the added advantage of having arelatively high smoke point (410° Fahrenheit). 
American peanut oils are often mild in
flavor.  Chinese peanut oils have a stronger
peanut flavor because they are less processed.Peanut oil keeps well when stored in a cool,dark place.  However, its shelf life is longerwhen it is refrigerated.
Preparation Tips
Peanut oil’s high smoke point makes it anexcellent choice for deep-frying, a cookingtechnique always best used in moderation. 
Servin g Suggestions
A healthier use for peanut oil is to serve it as asalad dressing.  It also adds a delicate flavor tomayonnaise recipes.  The flavor of peanut oilalso complements Indian and Asian cuisine. 
Safflower Oil
Safflower oil is made from the seeds of thethistle-like safflower plant.  Safflower oilhas little flavor or color, but it is rich inpolyunsaturated fat.  It is also one of theoils with the least amount of saturated fat.Safflower is light in color and, like otheroils that are rich in polyunsaturated fat, isa good all-around oil. 
Preparation Tips
Safflower oil can be substituted for otheroils in nearly any recipe.  It has a high smokepoint (450° Fahrenheit), making it a goodchoice for sautéing and deep-frying, twotechniques best used in moderation. 
Servin g Suggestions
Safflower oil is often used in salad dressingsbecause it does not solidify when chilled.It has an oily texture and a nutty flavor, mak-ing it a good substitute for peanut oil.
Soybean Oil
The soybean has the distinction of beingthe plant used most often to produce veg-etable oil.  The oil made from the yellow-
Olive oils vary in taste.
Experiment to find theflavor you like.ish brown legume is high in polyunsatu-
rated fat and low in saturated fat.  About15 percent of the fat provided by soybeanoil is saturated. 
Soybean oil is one of the most com-
monly used oils for commercial food pur-poses.  It has a smoke point of 410°Fahrenheit, making it useful for frying.However, sometimes manufacturers mayhydrogenate the oil, decreasing its healthattributes.  It is commonly used in mar-garine and shortening. 
Preparation Tips
Although soybean oil is versatile for cook-ing, some people find that it has a somewhatfishy taste and heavy texture.  Use cautionwhen using soybean oil by itself as aseasoning or dressing.
Servin g Suggestions
When soybean oil is used as a cookingmedium, its flavor complements Asian andIndian cuisines. 
Sunflower Oil
Sunflower oil is pressed from the seeds ofthis well-known, towering yellow memberof the daisy family.  The oil itself is lightand mild.  It is low in saturated fat and highin polyunsaturated fat.Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners 397
d’amande,” has a delicate flavor and smells
like toasted almonds.  It is also expensive.
Oil produced in the United States is con-
sidered less pleasing by serious cooks, but itis more moderately priced.
Preparation Tips
Almond oil becomes rancid quickly and must
be refrigerated.  When using synthetic almondflavoring in recipes, be aware that it often isnot made from almonds (instead peach pits
may be used) and may have a bitter taste. 
Servin g Suggestions
Almond oil or flavoring is used in numerousdesserts and sweets, including the famousGerman holiday specialty marzipan.Almond oil may be used as a flavoring indishes in which you would have used the
nut itself. 
Grape-seed Oil
This pale-yellow oil has both a taste and anaroma that reflect where it came from —it is extracted from the tiny grape seed.
Often, these seeds are left over after wine-making.
Grape-seed oil is produced mostly in
France, Italy, and Switzerland, but it is easilyfound in the United States in both groceryand specialty stores.  It is low in saturatedfat and contains mostly polyunsaturatedfat.  Although light in consistency and color,grape-seed oil can have a relatively strongand distinctive taste. 
Preparation Tips
Grape-seed oil’s high smoke point (445°Fahrenheit) makes it a good all-purpose oilfor deep-frying.  It can be used to gentlysauté foods.  Grape-seed oil does notbecome rancid quickly and can be storedat room temperature.Peanuts
Sunflower seedsPreparation Tips
Sunflower oil is considered an excellent all-
around oil.  Its very mild taste makes it
extremely versatile for both cooking andseasoning, particularly when cooks do notwant to mask the taste of other foods.
Servin g Suggestions
Because sunflower oil is relatively inex-pensive and has little or no taste, it can becombined with more expensive specialtyoils in foods such as salad dressings. 
Specialty Oils 
Almond Oil
A favorite for cakes, desserts, and candies,
this clear, sweet, pale-yellow oil is pressedfrom either bitter or sweet almond kernels.Both flavor and consistency may dependon where the oil was made.  In Europeancountries, the oil comes from the “bitteralmond,” which is similar to a peach pit.When the bitter substance in the oil hasbeen removed, the oil is then used to makecandy.  Almond oil from France, “huileServin g Suggestions
Grape-seed oil’s distinctive flavor makes it
a good candidate to serve cold.  It is excellent
as a salad dressing.  A simple but elegant wayto make use of it is as a dip for bread.  Cut abaguette of French bread into cubes and servethem with a small bowl of grape-seed oil. 
Hazelnut Oil
This delicious oil tastes like the nut it waspressed from and has a rich, strong flavor.Most hazelnut oil is imported from France,but it is easily found in most food stores.One caution:  it can be fairly expensive.Hazelnut oil contains mostly monounsat-urated fat.398 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
are rich in flavor, taste and smell range in
intensity.  Lighter-colored oil is milder inflavor, and darker oil is made from toastedsesame seeds and has a more intense flavor.For serious cooks, darker oil is consideredthe most desirable.
Sesame oil is widely used as an accent in
Middle Eastern, Asian, and Indian cuisine.It is high in monounsaturated and polyun-saturated fat, and it is low in saturated fat.It is used mostly to accent flavor and aromaand is used less often for frying because it
burns easily.
Preparation Tips
Generally, sesame oil’s strong flavor meansthat it is often added to other, less intenseGOURMET OILS
More expensive and hard-to-find oilsthat are also used in cooking or forflavoring include the following:
Pumpkin seed oil — As its name
suggests, this oil is pressed frompumpkin seeds.  Its distinctive flavorand expense mean that it is typicallyused sparingly as a condiment.
Mustard seed oil — This oil is
popular in Indian cooking and oftenused as a substitute for ghee, anIndian form of clarified butter.
Poppy seed oil — In France,
where it is a staple in cooking, poppyseed oil is referred to as “huileblanche,” or “white oil.”
Wheat germ oil — Made from
the heart of the wheat seed, wheatgerm oil is rich in vitamin E and lowin saturated fat.  It has a pleasing,nutty flavor, and is used by itself ormixed with other oils as a condiment.Preparation Tips
Although it can be stored at room temper-ature, hazelnut oil lasts longer when keptrefrigerated.  Because it has a strong flavor,it is often combined with other, lighter oils.It also has a low smoke point, so it is notused for cooking.
Servin g Suggestions
Hazelnut oil is excellent in salad dressing,drizzled over vegetables, and in cakes andpastries.  It is also an unusual but pleasantaddition to sauces. 
Sesame Oil
Extracted from the oily seeds of the sesameplant, sesame oil is a flavorful, nutty-tasting,
and aromatic oil.  Although all sesame oils
Various oils are used to “
dress” salads.  Flavorful extravirgin olive oil, lighter-coloredcanola oil, and pale saffloweroil are all low in saturated fat.  Check labels for coconutoil, which is high in saturatedfat and is not the healthiestchoice.oils in cooking.  Purchase sesame oil in glass
or metal containers because it goes rancid
more quickly in plastic.  Sesame oil keeps
for about a month in a cool place.
Servin g Suggestions
Drizzle sesame oil lightly over dishes justafter cooking.  A small amount adds a dis-tinct flavor and aroma. 
Walnut Oil
Oil pressed from walnuts has a strong, nuttyflavor.  It is also high in polyunsaturatedfat and low in saturated fat.  Although wide-ly available, walnut oil remains expensive.Blander, cheaper versions can be found.
Preparation Tips
Because of its intense flavor, walnut oil isoften mixed with lighter oils.  Walnut oilalso has a low smoke point and will become
rancid quickly if not refrigerated.
Servin g Suggestions
Walnut oil is excellent as a salad dressingor drizzled over pasta or cooked vegetables.Like any nut oil, you can use walnut oil whenthe nut itself would be complementary.Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners 399
Sweeteners 
Basics
Sweeteners come from various sources.
They have been sought throughout historyfor their pleasing taste and many uses.  Juststop and think of what you have eatentoday.  This morning you may have sweet-ened your tea with honey and put maplesyrup on your pancakes.  At lunch, you mayhave eaten a snack food made with cornsyrup  — a form of sugar — and, perhaps,you finished off dinner with a cake madewith the most commonly used and bestknown sweetener of all, granulated sugar.
The science of sweetness, however, goes
beyond the source of the foodstuff for the
sweetener.  At a molecular level, approxi-mately 100 chemicals are sweet.  They allare referred to as sugars.  Common ones youmay have heard of include the following:
Sucrose — Table sugar is the crystal-
lized form of sucrose.  Sucrose is referred
to as a simple sugar.  It is naturally occur-ring in all plants that depend on sunlight
to produce energy.  Sugar cane and sugarbeets are among the most abundant pro-ducers of sucrose in the plant kingdom.
Glucose — A simple sugar that plays
many key roles in the body, glucose is a sim-ple sugar found in fruits, honey, cereal,flour, and nuts.
Fructose — The sweetest of all sugars
is found in abundance in honey and fruit.
Lactose — Another simple sugar, lac-
tose occurs only in milk.  It is often addedto other foods during processing to improvetaste.
Maltose — The result of a chemical
processing that uses starch and malt, mal-tose has numerous commercial food uses.  Itis often used in beer, bread, and baby food,among other things.Pectin — A complex sugar, pectin is
found in apples, citrus fruits, and some veg-etables.  It is a form of fiber. 
Nutrition
All sugars are carbohydrates and play akey role in providing the body with ener-gy.  The calorie content depends on thetype of sweetener used.  For example,table sugar has about 16 calories per tea-spoon, and honey has about 21 calories perteaspoon.
Generally, sweeteners often are referred
to as having “empty calories.”  They containfew or no vitamins, minerals, or other nutri-ents.  And, because they are appealing, itcan be easy to eat too much.  This excess
QUICK TIP
Although refrigeration helps toprevent oils from becoming rancid,the colder temperature may result in some oils becoming cloudy orthicker.  This change does not affectthe oil’s nutritional value, quality, ortaste.  At room temperature, the oilwill liquefy and, usually, clarify again.
WHATAREESSENTIAL OILS?
Essential oils are extracted from vari-ous plants for use in perfumes, foraromatherapy purposes, or for use inmedicines as flavorings.  Commonessential oils used for their scentinclude rose oil, geranium oil, andlavender oil.  Essential oils used forflavorings are derived from lemons,cloves, peppermint leaves, andspearmint leaves.
Walnutsextracted from the crushed cane or sliced
beets is then processed to make sugar.
Typically, the juice is boiled, and then
chemicals are added to the solution to puri-fy it.  The resulting syrup is known asmolasses.  Continued processing separatescrystals from the molasses and other by-products.  The crystals are then dried andpackaged as sugar. 
The most common types of sugars
found in supermarkets are as follows:
Granulated white su gar — Often
referred to as table sugar, this is the most
commonly used type of sugar.  There are
different grades of granulated white sugar,and the size of the sugar crystal determines
how it is used.  Regular, extra-fine, or fine
sugar is the sugar found most commonlyin the sugar bowl and called for in mostcookbook recipes.  Superfine sugar or ultra-fine sugar has the smallest crystal size andis often used in cakes and meringues andto sweeten fruits or iced drinks.  Superfinesugar dissolves the most easily in water.
Brown su gar — Brown sugar is sold in
dark and light varieties.  It is simply whitesugar crystals coated in a molasses syrup toadd a natural mellow flavor and color.  Darkbrown sugar has more color and a strongermolasses flavor.  Its fuller flavor is called for
in recipes for gingerbread and baked beans.Lighter types are usually used in baking.Neither type of brown sugar is consideredraw sugar, although they do look similar to it.
Confectioners’ su gar — Also known as
powdered sugar, this is granulated sugarthat has been ground into a powder.  Asmall amount of cornstarch can be added toprevent clumping.  Confectioners’ sugartypically is used to make icing, in whippingcream, and as a topping for desserts. 
Decoratin g or coarse su gar— Also
called sugar crystals, decorating sugar hasgranules about four times larger than those400 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
Sugar
Sugar was once considered as valuable as
gold because of its scarcity.  Its use spreadthroughout the Western world afterexplorers, then armies, conquered parts ofancient Arabia.  In early times, it was soldand traded in blocks, which were thenground into powder.
Although sugar is a carbohydrate that
occurs naturally in every fruit and veg-etable, it is found in the greatest quantitiesas sucrose in sugar cane, which is grownin the tropics, and sugar beets, which canbe cultivated in colder climates.  Juicecould make it difficult to maintain a healthyweight.  Heavy use of sweeteners also may
increase the risk of tooth decay, which is
why it is important to brush after eating asweet food, particularly one that is sticky,such as caramel.  For these reasons, it is bestto minimize the amount of sweeteners inyour diet.
Selection and Stora ge 
These factors depend on the type of sweet-ener.  Check the following sections, whichprovide more information on commontypes of sweeteners, for specifics.
There are many types of sweeteners.Fats, Oils, & Sweeteners 401
Honey
In ancient times, this thick, sweet, golden
liquid was thought of as a healing agent, a
gift from the gods, and a symbol of wealth.
Today, this sweetener is still revered,although not as highly, for being a naturalsource of sweet flavor.
Honey is made by bees.  The basic
ingredient is nectar gathered from flowers.Enzymes in the bee’s saliva convert thenectar into honey.  Essentially, this is asimple matter of chemistry, in which thesugar (sucrose) in nectar is converted intofructose and glucose. 
As the phrase “busy as a bee” suggests,
bees work hard to make honey.  The beemust make up to 100,000 round trips fromminimize its role in our diet.  Make a little
go a long way.  To do so:• Add spices, such as cinnamon or nut-meg, to foods to jazz up flavor while reduc-ing sweeteners used in them.• Add fruit or yogurt to foods such ascereal, instead of a sweetener.• Avoid sweetened soft drinks, andminimize fruit juices with added sugar.Better yet, drink water.• Check labels for sugar or any one of thechemical names for it:  glucose, sucrose,lactose, or fructose, to name just a few.Also, watch for corn syrup or malt syrup,two more widely used sweeteners in foodmanufacturing.
Servin g Suggestions
Manufacturers can reduce the fat in manyfoods, but it is hard to do without sugar.Sugar is a key component of baked goodsand desserts and is used to enhance theflavor of everything from sweet-and-sourstir-fry to ham.  The amount of sugar usedin a recipe often can be reduced by up tohalf without compromising the flavor.However, this is not always the case, so abit of trial and error is required.of regular granulated sugar.  It undergoes
a special processing method to make it resis-tant to color change and breakdown at hightemperatures.  This makes it useful for mak-ing fondants or liqueurs.
Sandin g sugar— Also called colored
sugar, sanding sugar is used for decoratingand is characterized by large crystals.  Thisis desirable in decorating because it givesthe food a sparkling appearance.
Flavored su gar — This is simply gran-
ulated sugar that has been combined orscented with various ingredients such ascinnamon or vanilla.  
Fruit su gar — Slightly finer than
“regular” sugar, fruit sugar is used in drymixes such as gelatin desserts, puddingmixes, and drink mixes.  The more uni-form crystals prevent separation or settlingof smaller crystals to the bottom of the box.
In addition to sweetening items, sugar
plays an important role in making food.  Itis a critical ingredient in bread, in which itprovides food for yeast and thus helps breadto rise.  It also adds to the flavor and crustcolor of baked goods and helps extend shelflife.
In large amounts, sugar inhibits the
growth of yeast and molds in jams andjellies.  Sugar syrups protect frozen andcanned foods from browning and wither-ing.  In ice cream, beverages, baked goods,and other products, sugar adds bulk,texture, and body.  It is also used in manycondiments, such as ketchup and saladdressing, where it blends flavors, reducesacidity, and helps create a smooth texture.
Sugar has a long shelf life.  Kept tightly
wrapped and in a cool, dark place, it willkeep for months or even years. 
Preparation Tips
Sugar adds flavor and calories but little else.Therefore, it is best for most of us to
SUGAR IN THE RAW
Many so-called raw sugars aremarketed in the United States.  T wopopular types of raw sugar are thecoarse-textured dry Demerara sugar,which is produced in the SouthAmerican country of Guyana, andthe moist, fine-textured muscovado,or Barbados, sugar.  Demerara sugaris light brown and is characterized bylarge golden crystals that are slightlysticky.  It is excellent as a topping forhot cereals and is widely used inspecialty coffee houses.  Muscovado,
or Barbados, sugar is a dark, rich
brown sugar and retains a strongmolasses flavor.  T urbinado sugar isanother variation of raw sugar.  It has undergone steam processing toremove some of the lingering molassesin it.  Its crystals are light-golden andgenerally are larger than those ofregular sugar. T urbinado sugar tastesvery similar to brown sugar.
Sugar canehive to flower and back just to make a quart
of honey. 
Honey is divided into three basic cate-
gories:• Liquid honey, which is extracted fromthe comb• Chunk-style honey, a liquid honey withpieces of the honeycomb• Comb honey, a square or round piece ofthe honeycomb, with the honey inside
Within these three categories are
hundreds of different types of honey.Honey’s color ranges from light to dark.The flavor ranges from mild to strong anddepends on the type of flower from whichthe nectar was taken.  In general, the darkerthe honey, the stronger the flavor.
One tablespoon of honey has about 64
calories.  Although sugar has about 48calories per tablespoon, honey does havesome advantages over sugar.  Its sweeten-ing power is stronger.  And honey, unlike402 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
but are commonly used in food manufac-
turing because they do not readily form
crystals.  Corn syrup is perhaps the most
widely used grain syrup.  It is made by pro-cessing corn starch and is available in lightand dark forms.  Malt syrup, made fromevaporated corn mash and sprouted barley,is another common grain syrup.  It has astrong flavor and is used in bread making.
Golden syrup — Popular in England,
golden syrup is similar in consistency tocorn syrup and has a golden color.  It ismade from sugar cane juice and has a toast-ed flavor.  It is also known as light treacle.
Maple syrup — The best known of all
syrups, maple syrup is made by boiling thesap of certain species of maple trees ( Acer
saccharum ) found mainly in Quebec, New
York, and Vermont.  This clear, subtlyflavored syrup is sweeter than sugar and hasa distinctive flavor.
Molasses — Molasses, a dark viscous
syrup, is a by-product of the sugar-making
process and is generally used for flavoring
foods or as a glaze.  It is poured over foods
as a condiment in some regions of theUnited States.  Light molasses is produced
during the first stages of the sugar-extractionprocess.  Dark molasses is made during thesecond stage and is referred to as unsulfuredmolasses.  Blackstrap molasses, made duringthe final stage of sugar production, is darklycolored and has an intense flavor. 
Black treacle — Black treacle is a
thick, black, and sticky syrup.  It is verysimilar to molasses and is a by-product ofthe sugar-production process.  Black trea-cle is sweeter than molasses.  A lighter-colored and lighter-flavored form is alsoavailable.  Both are more common inEngland.
Palm syrup — This dark, thick, and
intensely flavored syrup is made frompalms.  It is an ingredient in some Asianother sweeteners, does contain trace
amounts of vitamins and minerals.
If kept in a sealed container and a cool
dark place, honey can be kept for a longtime.  Cooler temperatures, such as in arefrigerator, may cause honey to thicken.Warming it up, however, restores honey’sappearance.  Its taste is not altered.  However,very warm temperatures can change honey’sflavor.
Preparation Tips
Most honey sold in stores is pasteurized,filtered, and blended.  Some cooks buyhoney directly from an apiary because theybelieve that these processes alter or dullhoney’s delicate flavor.  Honey also can beused as a substitute for sugar (about 1/2cup honey for 1 cup of sugar) in manyrecipes.  Keep in mind, however, that honeymay cause food to brown more quickly.  Inaddition, you will need to reduce the liquidin the recipe. 
Servin g Suggestions
Honey adds moisture to cakes, breads, andother confections.  It is also an excellenttopping for most baked goods.  One othercommon use is as a glaze for meats suchas ham. 
Syrups
Sugar also comes in syrups — thick,viscous, sweet liquids that have varioustastes and uses.  The most common typesinclude the following: 
Cane syrup — Thick and extremely
sweet, cane syrup is made from sugar cane.It is a common ingredient in Caribbeanand Creole recipes.  
Grain  syrups — Sweet syrups can be
made from several grains:  barley, wheat,corn, or rice.  They are not as sweet as sugar
a distinctive taste that cannot be duplicated,
chocolate is the universal favorite when it
comes to flavor.  In fact, ancient cultures
even thought it was a gift from the gods, onewith medicinal properties.  It is perhaps themost popular sweet flavoring worldwide.
Chocolate is made from the beans of
the cacao tree, which grows in the warm,humid weather of the equatorial regions.Like coffee beans, the beans of the cacaotree must be dried, chopped, and roastedFats, Oils, & Sweeteners 403
before use.  The processing of the beans
results in a dark brown liquid called choco-
late liquor.  This fluid — which is 55 percent
fat, 17 percent carbohydrate, and 11 per-cent protein — is used to make virtually alltypes of chocolate.
Different types of chocolate contain vary-
ing amounts of cocoa butter — a vegetablefat derived from the cacao bean — and solidsfrom the cacao bean.  Chocolate typesinclude the following:HONEY AND INFANTS
Many parents are unaware that honeyshould not be served to childrenyounger than 1 year because it maycontain a small amount of botulismtoxin.  The amount of this toxin inhoney is not enough to harm adultsand children older than 1 yearbecause their immune systems havematured.  But in infants, this toxincan be life-threatening.
recipes and usually is sold only at specialtymarkets.
Preparation Tips
Most grain syrups are used commercially.In contrast, maple syrup is typically used athome.  Pure maple syrup is found in super-markets.  However, pancake syrups com-monly contain either a small portion ofmaple syrup or maple flavoring that is thenmixed with a grain syrup.  Many types ofsyrups are used to make candy.  Keep inmind that syrups high in sugar have a higher
boiling point than water. 
Servin g Suggestions
Maple syrup is typically used as a toppingfor waffles and pancakes.  Numerous typesof syrups can be used as glazes for meats(ham, in particular, and also poultry or fish)or on top of vegetables, such as carrots.Molasses also makes an excellent glaze. 
Sugar syrups make an excellent glaze
for pound cakes and bundt cakes. 
Chocolate
If there is one flavoring that everyone seemsto love, it’s chocolate.  Rich and sweet, withUnsweetened — Sometimes referred to
as baker’s chocolate, this dark, rich, and
bitter chocolate does not have any sugar
added to it.  It is usually added to recipes inwhich sugar is an ingredient.
Bittersweet — This dark, rich choco-
late is comprised mostly of chocolate liquor,meaning it is rich in cacao solids, but it mayhave some milk solids and other flavoringsadded to it.
Semisweet — A favorite of makers of
chocolate chip cookies, semisweet choco-late contains more milk solids and otherflavorings than bittersweet chocolate. 
Milk — The sweetest of all chocolates,
milk chocolate has a light-brown color and
a mild chocolate flavor.
White — This ivory-colored chocolate
contains no cacao bean solids, but it doescontain cocoa butter, which gives it a rich,creamy mouth-feel.  It differs from whitealmond bark or candy coating, which usesvegetable fat as a base instead of cocoa butter. 404 Part II:  Encyclopedia of Foods
all cocoa butter has been removed from it.
A tablespoon of unsweetened cocoa powder
contains about 15 calories and just under 1
gram of fat.
Cocoa typically is not sweetened and is
added to recipes in which sugar is used.There are two main types of cocoa:  naturaland “Dutch-process.”  Natural cocoa is lightin color and has a strong chocolate flavor.In contrast, Dutch-process has a mildertaste but is darker in color. 
Chocolate’s nutritional value varies.
One ounce of unsweetened chocolate has
145 calories, 16 grams of fat, and 9 grams
of saturated fat.  In comparison, an ounceof semisweet chocolate has 135 calories, 9
grams of fat, and 5 grams of saturated fat.
Chocolate also is a source of protein andcontains trace amounts of vitamins andsome minerals, such as potassium. 
Chocolate should be stored in a cool,
dark place and can be kept for severalImitation chocolate — Typically used
in baking chips, imitation chocolate replacessome or all of the cocoa fat with other veg-
etable fats.  It is high in fat (mostly saturated
fat) and does contain caffeine. 
Cocoa is another common type of
chocolate.  It is a powdered form of choco-late made from chocolate liquor.  However,
WHATISLIQUID SUGAR?
Liquid sugars were first developedbefore processing made distributionof granulated sugars practical.  It is generally used for commercialpurposes in products in which dis-solved granulated sugar is desired.  Adarker liquid sugar is also available.It is called amber liquid and is darker and has more of a cane sugar flavor.  
Invert sugar is another type of
liquid sugar.  It helps prevent sugar
crystallization and also helps theproduct it is in retain moisture.Invert sugar is sweeter than regulartable sugar and is generally availableonly for commercial uses.Made from maple syrup, maple sugar is
twice as sweet as regular table sugar.ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS
Aspartame (better known as Nutra-
Sweet), acesulfame-K, saccharin, andsucralose are synthetic substancesthat have been approved by the U.S.Food and Drug Administration.They are used commercially and inthe home to sweeten products.  Theycontain few or no calories but areseveral hundred times sweeter thansugar.  For more information, seeChapter 2, page 21.months.  Dark chocolate can be stored for up
to a year.  Varying temperatures will causelighter, whitish areas to appear on chocolate— something that does not affect taste andis resolved when the chocolate is melted.Chocolate also can be frozen, but it must bewrapped tightly to prevent moisture fromdamaging the chocolate when it is thawed.
Preparation Tips
Cocoa can be used as a substitute for choco-late in recipes.  However, when this sub-stitution is made, fat needs to be added tothe cocoa to ensure that the final productwill be moist.  Each square of unsweetenedFats, Oils, & Sweeteners 405
chocolate can be replaced with 3 table-
spoons of cocoa and 1 tablespoon of cook-ing oil.
Melting chocolate is difficult because
it burns easily.  For that reason, it is best touse a double boiler to melt chocolate.  Avoidsplashing any water into the melting choco-late because doing so can cause the choco-late to become hard and thus unusable.Chopping the chocolate into small bitsbefore melting it helps achieve the smooth,even consistency that many recipes require.
Always look at the ingredient list of the
chocolate you buy to ensure that you arenot getting a substitute.
Servin g Suggestions
Chocolate is the classic dessert ingredient,providing the flavoring power for cakes,tortes, frostings, mousses, creams, and othersweets too numerous to count. 
Chocolate’s high fat content and
high calories mean it should be used inmoderation.  Use chocolate as an accentto a healthier food — such as a dip forstrawberries — rather than as the mainingredient.  Reduced-calorie hot cocoamixes are an excellent way to feed achocolate craving without the fat andcalories.  Or, simply save chocolate forspecial occasions. This Page Intentionally Left Blank407Acute :  Term used to describe disorders or symptoms that occur
abruptly or that run a short course; opposite of Chronic
Aerobic :  Requiring the presence of oxygen.  Aerobic exercise, for
example, requires increased oxygen consumption.  Opposite ofAnaerobic
Ambulatory :  Able to walk
Amino acid :  A component of protein, containing nitrogen.  The body
produces many amino acids; those it needs but cannot make are knownas essential amino acids and must be obtained through the diet
Anaerobic :  Able to live without oxygen (as certain bacteria), or a
type of exercise in which short, vigorous bursts of activity requir-ing little additional oxygen are performed.  Opposite of Aerobic
Anemia :  Condition characterized by a reduced number of red
blood cells, amount of hemoglobin, or amount of blood
Aneurysm :  The localized bulging of a blood vessel, usually an
artery, to form a bulge or sac
Anorexia :  Loss of appetite, often due to depression, fever, illness,
widespread cancer, or addiction to alcohol or drugs
Anorexia nervosa :  An eating disorder characterized by aberrant
eating patterns and disturbed ideas about body weight
Antibody :  Protein of the immune system that counteracts or elim-
inates foreign substances known as antigens
Antigen :  Substance foreign to the body that causes antibodies 
to form
Apnea :  Temporary cessation of breathingArteriosclerosis :  Condition in which the walls of arteries become
hard and thick, sometimes interfering with blood circulation
Artery :  Blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to other
tissues of the body
Asymptomatic :  Without symptoms
Atherosclerosis :  Condition in which fatty deposits accumulate
in the lining of the arteries, resulting in restricted, less flexible path-ways for the blood
Atrophy :  Wasting of tissue or an organ due to disease or lack of use
Autoimmune :  Reaction of the body against one or some of its
own tissues that are perceived as foreign substances, resulting inproduction of antibodies against that tissue
Bacteria :  Single-celled microorganisms, some of which cause
disease and some of which are beneficial to biological processes
Benign :  Harmless; not progressive or recurrent
Blood pressure :  Force placed on the walls of the arteries.  See
Diastole andSystole
Bowel :  Small or large intestine.  The small intestine is sometimes
called the small bowel.  The large intestine is also called the colon
Brand-name drug :  A drug carrying a trademark name designated
by its manufacturer
Cachexia :  Malnutrition and wasting due to illness
Caffeine :  A stimulant found naturally in coffee, tea, chocolate,
and cocoa; may be added to, for example, soft drinks and over-the-counter drugsGlossaryCalorie :  The amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of
1 gram of water by 1° Centigrade
Cancer :  General term for various conditions characterized by
abnormal growth of cells, forming malignant tumors that candevelop in various parts of the body.  See Malignant andBenign
Capillaries :  Minute blood vessels connecting the smallest arter-
ies to the smallest veins
Carbohydrate :  A group of compounds composed of starches or
sugars, found primarily in breads and cereals and in fruits andvegetables
Carcinogen :  A potential cancer-causing agent
Cardiac :  Pertaining to the heart
Cardiopulmonary :  Pertaining to both heart and lungs
Cardiovascular :  Pertaining to the heart and blood vessels
Carotid artery :  Main (right and left) artery of the neck which
carries blood to the head and brain
Cerebrovascular :  Pertaining to the blood vessels of the brain
Chemotherapy :  T reatment of disease by chemicals that have a
direct effect on the disease-causing organism or disease cells; widelyused in the treatment of cancer
Cholesterol :  A fat-like substance made in the liver and found in
the blood, brain, liver, and bile and as deposits in the walls of bloodvessels.  Essential to the production of sex hormones.  Found infoods of animal sources
Chromosome :  One of 46 rod-shaped structures in the nucleus
that carry genetic information to each cell
Chronic :  Term used to describe long-lasting disease or condi-
tions.  Opposite of Acute
Clinical :  Pertaining to information gathered from direct obser-
vation of patients, as distinct from laboratory findingsCoagulate :  To solidify or change from a liquid to a semisolid, as
when blood clots
Colon :  The large intestine extending from the small intestine and end-
ing in the anus.  It is responsible for extracting water from undigest-ed food and storing the waste, which is eliminated in bowel movements
Colorectal :  Pertaining to the colon and rectum
Complex carbohydrate :  A substance that contains several sugar
units linked together, such as starch
Constipation :  The difficult or infrequent passage of stool
Coronary :  Pertaining to the arteries that supply blood to the heart
Coronary artery disease :  Narrowing or blockage of one or more
of the coronary arteries, resulting in decreased blood supply to theheart (ischemia).  Also called “ischemic heart disease”
Corticosteroids :  Hormones produced by the cortex of the adrenal
glands; also, synthetic hormones used as medications
Debility :  A state of physical weakness
Dehydration :  A lack of an adequate amount of fluid in the body.
Dehydration may be accompanied by dry mouth, thirst, consti-
pation, dizziness, concentrated urine, or fever
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) :  A substance found in the nucleus
of cells that carries genetic information
Dextrose :  A simple sugar that is found in the blood
Diabetes mellitus :  Disorder characterized by high levels of glucose
in the blood.  Diabetes mellitus may be caused by a failure of thepancreas to produce sufficient insulin or by resistance of the bodyto the action of insulin
Diabetic ketoacidosis :  A serious condition that develops in persons
with diabetes when there is not enough insulin and the body beginsbreaking down fat, producing ketones (acids)
Diagnosis :  Identification of a disease or disorder408 GlossaryGlossary   409
Diarrhea :  An increase in the number or liquidity of bowel move-
ments
Diastole :  Period during the heart cycle in which the muscle relaxes,
followed by contraction ( Systole ).  In a blood pressure reading, the
lower number is the diastolic measurement
Diastolic pressure :  The lowest blood pressure reached during the
relaxation of your heart.  Recorded as the second number in ablood pressure measurement
Digestion :  Breakdown of food so it can be absorbed
Duodenum :  The part of the small intestine next to the stomach
Edema :  Swelling of body tissues due to excessive fluid
Endocardium :  The thin, inner membrane that lines the heart.
See Epicardium andMyocardium
Enzyme :  A complex protein that stimulates a chemical reaction
Epicardium :  The thin membrane on the surface of the heart.  See
Endocardium andMyocardium
Epinephrine :  Adrenal hormone that increases heart rate and blood
pressure and affects other body functions
Esophagus :  The muscular tube that connects the throat to the
stomach
Estrogen :  Hormone produced primarily in women that con-
tributes to the development of female secondary sex characteristicsand cyclic changes such as menstruation and pregnancy.  An oralreplacement dose of estrogen is often used to lessen the effects ofmenopause, among other effects.  The hormone is also producedin small quantities in men
Ethanol :  Grain or ethyl alcohol
Fats:  A group of organic compounds that are composed of fatty
acids.  Fats are either saturated or unsaturated.  Unsaturated fats areclassified further as either monounsaturated or polyunsaturatedFatty acids :  Substances that occur in foods; different fatty acids
have different effects on cholesterol and triglyceride levels
Fiber :  As applies to food, a substance that resists digestion and
passes through the system essentially unchanged.  Fiber adds bulkto the diet and aids in the passage of bowel movements
Flatulence :  Excessive gas in the stomach or intestine
Fracture :  To break or crack a bone; or, a break or a crack in a bone
Fructose :  A sugar found in fruit, corn syrup, and honey
Gallbladder :  Structure located under the liver that stores bile and
then releases it into the small intestine
Gastric :  Pertaining to the stomach
Gastroenteritis :  An inflammatory condition of the stomach and
intestines leading to nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, anddiarrhea.  Usually of bacterial or viral origin
Gastrointestinal tract :  The stomach and intestines
Gene :  Structure within a chromosome that is responsible for inher-
itance of a particular characteristic
Generalized :  Overall, not limited to one area of the body
Genetic engineering :  Manufacture, alteration, or repair of genetic
material by synthetic means
Geriatrics :  The branch of medicine that specializes in the care of
problems related to aging
Germ :  A microorganism that causes disease
Gestational diabetes :  Diabetes that develops during preg-
nancy, resulting in improper regulation of glucose levels in theblood
Gland :  Any organ or tissue that releases a substance to be used
elsewhere in the body; endocrine glands release hormones directlyinto the bloodstreamGlucose :  A form of sugar.  All of carbohydrate and part of fat can
be changed by the body into glucose; used by the body for energy
Gluten :  Protein found in grains such as wheat, rye, oats, and barley.
Gluten helps hold in the gas bubbles when flour dough rises
Glycogen :  Stored form of carbohydrate in the liver and muscles
Goiter :  Enlargement of the thyroid gland
Gout :  A condition in which excess uric acid may lead to arthritis
and kidney stones
HDL cholesterol :  High-density lipoprotein cholesterol; a type
of cholesterol thought to help protect against atherosclerosis; knownas “good” cholesterol
Heart attack :  Descriptive term for a myocardial infarction:  an
incident caused by the blockage of one or more of the coronaryarteries, resulting in interruption of blood flow to a part of theheart
Heartburn :  Pain due to regurgitation (reflux) of juices from the
stomach into the esophagus; pyrosis
Hemoglobin :  A iron-containing protein found in the red blood
cells.  Hemoglobin transports oxygen to body tissues
Hemorrhage :  Loss of blood from a blood vessel
Hemorrhoid :  Swollen vein in and around the anus that may bleed
Hepatic :  Pertaining to the liver
Heredity :  Genetic transmission of traits from parent to offspring
Hernia :  Protrusion of an organ or part of an organ into sur-
rounding tissues
High blood pressure :  See Hypertension
Hormone :  A substance secreted in the body and carried through
the bloodstream to various tissues of the body, where it serves aregulatory functionHydrogenation :  A process that changes an unsaturated fat to a
more saturated one
Hyper- :  Prefix meaning “excessive” or “increased”
Hyperactivity :  Condition of disturbed behavior characterized by
constant overactivity, distractibility, impulsiveness, inability toconcentrate, and aggressiveness
Hypercholesterolemia :  Increased level of cholesterol in the bloodstream
Hyperglycemia :  Increased level of sugar (glucose) in the blood-
stream
Hyperlipidemia :  Excess of fats (lipids) in the bloodstream
Hyperplasia :  Excessive growth of tissues
Hypertension :  Condition in which the blood is pumped through
the body under abnormally high pressure; also known as highblood pressure
Hypo- :  Prefix meaning “inadequate” or “insufficient”
Hypoglycemia :  Condition in which the sugar (glucose) in the
bloodstream decreases below normal levels
Hypotension :  Low blood pressure
Iatrogenic disease :  Disorder or disease resulting as a side effect of
a prescribed treatment
Idiopathic :  Pertaining to a condition or disease of unknown cause
Ileum :  Lower portion of the small intestine
Immobilize :  To make a limb or part immovable in order to pro-
mote healing
Immunity :  State of being resistant to a disease, particularly an
infectious one
Indigestion :  Impaired digestion, commonly refers to abdominal
pain after meals410 GlossaryGlossary   411
Infarct :  An area of tissue that dies because of lack of blood supply
Infection :  Disease caused by invasion of body tissue by bacteria,
viruses, or fungi
Infectious :  Ability to transmit a disease caused by microorganisms
Inferior vena cava :  Large vein returning blood from your legs
and abdomen to your heart
Inflammation :  Body tissue’s reaction to injury that leads to
swelling, pain, heat, and redness
Insulin :  A hormone made by the pancreas or taken by injection
that regulates the amount of sugar (glucose) in the bloodstream
Insulin pump :  A device that delivers a predetermined amount
of insulin into the body
Insulin reaction :  A condition in insulin-taking diabetics result-
ing in low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) due to excess insulin orinadequate carbohydrate intake
Intestines :  Portion of the digestive tract extending from stomach
to anus and responsible for much of the absorption of nutrients.See Duodenum ,Ileum ,Jejunum , and Colon
Intolerance :  Inability to endure, as with pain or a drug therapy
Involuntary :  Not controlled through will
Irradiation of food :  A process of exposing food to low-dose radia-
tion in order to extend shelf life by killing microorganisms and insects
Ischemia :  Deficiency of blood flow within an organ or part of an
organ.  Often refers to the situation in which an artery is narrowedor blocked by spasm or atherosclerosis and cannot deliver sufficientblood to the organ it supplies
Jejunum :  The portion of the small intestine located between the
duodenum and ileum
Joint :  The point of juncture between two or more bones where
movement occursKetoacidosis :  A disturbance of body chemistry that occurs in star-
vation or as a complication of type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes
Ketone :  An acidic substance produced when the body must use
fat for energy
Kidneys :  The two bean-shaped organs located in the back portion
of the upper abdomen that are responsible for excreting urine andregulating the water and chemical contents of the blood
Kilogram :  A metric unit of weight; 1 kilogram equals 2.2 pounds
or 1,000 grams
Kyphosis :  Excessive curvature of the upper spine, resulting in
humpback, hunchback, or rounding of the shoulders.  May resultfrom diseases such as osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, osteo-porosis, or rickets, from conditions such as compression fracture,or from a congenital abnormality
Lactation :  The production of breast milk
Lactose :  The sugar found in milk
Laparoscopy :  Examination of the inside of the abdominal cavi-
ty by means of a laparoscope (a viewing instrument) insertedthrough a small incision
LDL cholesterol :  Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol; provides
cholesterol for necessary body functions, but in excessive amountsit tends to accumulate in artery walls; known as “bad” cholesterol
Lesion :  Area of tissue that is injured or diseased such as a wound,
abscess, sore, tumor, mole, or cyst
Lipid :  Description term for a fat or fat-like substance found in
the blood, such as cholesterol
Lipoproteins :  Proteins that combine with lipids to make them
dissolve in blood
Liver :  A large organ in the upper abdomen that is the site of
many metabolic functions, including the secretion of bile, themanufacture of proteins, and the storage of glycogen and certainvitaminsLungs :  The two organs of respiration that bring air and blood
into close contact so that oxygen can be added to and carbondioxide removed from the blood
Malabsorption :  Inadequate absorption of nutrients from the small
intestine.  Symptoms and signs of malabsorption syndrome includeloose, fatty stools, diarrhea, and weight loss, but anemia is not a symptom
Malignant :  Harmful, as in cancerous tissue that can grow uncon-
trollably and spread (metastasize)
Malnutrition :  Deficiency of nourishment in the body due to lack
of healthful food or improper digestion and distribution of nutrients
Masticate :  Chew
Melanoma :  A pigmented tumor of the skin and, in rare instances,
of the mucous membranes.  A malignant melanoma can be invasiveand spread to lymph nodes and other sites more frequently thanother skin cancers
Membrane :  A thin layer of tissue that lines, separates, or covers
organs or structures
Menopause :  The age-related, permanent cessation of menstruation
Menstruation :  Monthly shedding of blood and tissue from the lin-
ing of the uterus
Metabolism :  Physical and chemical processes by which food is
transformed into energy and tissues are broken down into wasteproducts
Metastasis :  Spreading of a disease from one part of the body to
another, usually refers to movement of malignant cells (as in can-cer) or bacteria through the lymph or blood
Microbes :  Microscopic one-celled organisms such as bacteria,
many of which cause disease
Mineral :  A class of nutrients made from inorganic compounds
Mitosis :  Type of cell division in which the new cells have the same
number of chromosomes as the parent cellmm Hg (millimeters of mercury):  Unit used for measuring blood
pressure
Mono- :  Prefix meaning “one”
Muscle :  Tissue that produces movement by its ability to contract
Musculoskeletal :  Pertaining to the muscles and the skeleton
Myalgia :  Muscle tenderness or pain
Myocardial infarction :  Heart attack; death of an area of heart
muscle due to lack of blood supply
Myocardium :  The heart muscle.  See Endocardium andEpicardium
Nausea :  An unpleasant sensation in the stomach, often followed
by vomiting
Necrosis :  Changes due to death of cells or organs
Nerve :  A bundle of nerve fibers through which nerve impulses
pass
Neuropathy :  A functional or structural change in nerves
Nucleus :  Center portion of cells essential for cell growth, nour-
ishment, and reproduction
Nutrients :  Substances supplied by food that provide nourishment
for the body
Nutrition :  A combination of processes by which the body receives
and uses the substances necessary for its function, for energy, andfor growth and repair of the body
Obesity :  Abnormal body weight, usually defined as more than
30 percent above average for age, height, and bone structure
Occlusion :  Closure of a passage such as ducts or blood vessels.
In dentistry, the alignment of upper and lower teeth when the jawsare closed
Olfactory :  Pertaining to the sense of smell412 GlossaryGlossary   413
-oma :  Suffix meaning “tumor”; generally not a cancer
Oncology :  The study of cancer
Organic food :  Food that is grown and processed without the use
of chemicals, including fertilizers, insecticides, artificial coloring,and additives
Orthostatic hypotension :  Decrease in blood pressure upon stand-
ing; may lead to light-headedness or fainting-osis:  suffix meaning “diseased state”
Osteoporosis :  Reduction in bone that can result in weak bones
and fractures
Over-the-counter (OTC) :  Sold without a prescription
Pancreas :  Gland that produces enzymes essential to the digestion
of food.  The islets of Langerhans within the pancreas secrete insulininto the blood
Parasite :  An organism that lives on or within another organism
at the expense of the host
Parathyroid gland :  Endocrine glands located behind the thyroid
gland that maintain the level of calcium in the blood
Parenteral :  Method of administering medication or nutrition
other than via the digestive tract, such as intravenous, subcuta-neous, or intramuscular
Pareve :  A term describing food made without animal or dairy
ingredients, according to kosher dietary regulations
Pasteurization :  A method of killing bacteria in milk and other
liquids by heating to moderately high temperatures for a shorttime
Pathogen :  Disease-producing microorganism
Pathology :  Study of the cause and nature of a disease
Pernicious : Destructive, sometimes fatal.  Pernicious anemia is
caused by the inability to absorb vitamin B
12from the intestinal tractPharmacology :  Study of drugs and their effects on living beings
Phytochemicals :  Plant chemicals that when eaten may have an
effect on health
Pica: An uncommon urge to eat nonfood items such as laundry
starch, dirt, baking powder, or frost from the freezer
Pinch :  A measure of dry ingredients equivalent to approximately
1/16 of a teaspoon
Placebo :  Substance given for psychological benefit or as part of a
clinical research study; it has no specific pharmacologic activity
against illness
Plaque :  A film or deposit of bacteria and other material on the sur-
face of a tooth that may lead to tooth decay or periodontal disease
Plasma :  Fluid part of the blood and lymph
Poly- :  Prefix meaning “multiple”
Polyp :  A protruding growth, often on a stalk
Primary care physician :  Physician responsible for a person’s
general health care
Progesterone :  Female sex hormone responsible for, among other
things, preparation of the uterine lining for implantation of thefertilized egg
Prognosis :  Prediction of the course or outcome of a disease
Prostate gland :  Gland located at the base of the bladder in men
that contributes to production of seminal fluid
Protein :  One of many complex nitrogen-containing compounds,
composed of amino acids; essential for the growth and repair oftissue
Puberty :  The time when body changes particular to the sex occur
and when reproduction becomes possible
Pulmonary :  Pertaining to the lungsPulse :  Expansion of an artery after each contraction of the heart
Radiation therapy :  The use of high-energy penetrating waves to
treat disease.  Sources of radiation used in radiation therapy includex-ray, cobalt, and radium
Rectum :  The lowest portion of the large intestine.  Stores stool until
it is emptied
Renal :  Pertaining to the kidneys
Renal failure :  The inability of the kidneys to excrete wastes, con-
centrate urine, and maintain electrolyte balance
Retinopathy :  Abnormality of the retina that may cause deterio-
ration of eyesight
Risk factors :  A factor that increases the chance of developing or
aggravating a condition
Roughage :  Indigestible fiber of fruits, vegetables, and cereals
Saline :  Salt (sodium chloride) solution
Saliva :  Fluid secreted by the salivary and mucous glands of the
mouth that moistens food and begins the process of digestion
Sauté :  To cook food quickly in a small amount of oil or seasoned
liquid over a high heat
Sclerosis :  Hardening or thickening of an organ or tissue, usually
due to abnormal growth of fibrous tissue
Screening :  Tests or observations applied to a large cohort of
individuals to identify disease or risk of disease
Secretion :  The process of producing a substance by a gland; also,
the substance produced
Sedentary :  Lacking exercise; inactive
Sepsis : Infection with disease-causing microorganisms or other
toxins in the bloodstreamSide effects :  Undesirable effect of a medication or other treatment
Spleen :  The largest organ in the lymphatic system.  Located near
the stomach, it has a role in the production, storage, and break-down of blood cells
Squamous cell carcinoma :  A malignant tumor arising from cells
known as squamous epithelium; a common form of skin cancer
Stenosis :  The narrowing or closure of an opening or passageway
in the body
Sterilization :  The process by which all microorganisms are killed,
as in sterilization of surgical instruments
Steroids :  See Corticosteroids
Stomach :  A sac-like organ to which food is delivered by the esoph-
agus.  After the food is processed mechanically by a churning actionand chemically with gastric acids, it passes from the stomach tothe small intestine
Stool :  Body waste excreted from the bowel; feces
Stroke :  An injury of the brain due to bleeding or to an interrup-
tion of the blood supply
Sucrose :  The simple sugar processed from sugarcane and sugar beets
Syndrome :  A constellation of symptoms that characterize an
ailment
Systemic :  Affecting or pertaining to the entire body rather than
one of its parts
Systole :  The portion of the heart cycle during which the heart
muscle is contracting
Systolic pressure :  The highest blood pressure produced by the
contraction of the heart.  Recorded as the first number in a bloodpressure measurement
Thoracic :  Having to do with the chest (thorax)414 GlossaryGlossary   415
Thyroid gland :  The endocrine gland that produces thyroid hor-
mone
Thyroxine :  One of the forms of thyroid hormone that is involved in
the control of the pace of chemical activity (metabolism) in the body
Tissue :  A collection of similar cells that form a body structure
Toxin :  A poison
Transient ischemic attack :  Symptoms caused by temporary lack
of circulation to part of the brain
Transplantation :  The surgical transfer of an organ or tissue from
one position (or person) to another
Trauma :  The process or event leading to an injury or wound
Triglyceride :  A form of fat that the body can make from sugar,
alcohol, or excess calories
Truncal obesity :  Fat deposited in the thorax and abdomen, instead
of the hips and thighs
Tumor :  A new growth of tissue; a neoplasm
Ulcer :  An open sore on the skin or a mucous membrane
Ulcerative colitis :  A disease characterized by inflammation of the
lining of the colon and rectumUrine :  Fluid waste produced in the kidneys, stored in the bladder,
and released through the urethra
Vascular :  Pertaining to blood vessels; includes veins and arteries
Vegans :  People who do not eat any food of animal origin
Vein:  A blood vessel that returns blood to the heart
Venous :  Pertaining to veins
Viral :  Pertaining to or caused by a virus
Virus :  Tiny organism that causes disease; viruses range from minor
(common cold) to potentially deadly (AIDS)
Vital signs :  Respiration, heart rate, and body temperature
Vitamins :  Organic substances that are essential for most meta-
bolic functions of the body; they are fat-soluble (A, D, E, K) and
water-soluble (B vitamins and C).
Vomit :  The ejection of contents of the stomach through the mouth;
also, the material itself
X-ray :  Electromagnetic vibrations of short wavelength that
penetrate most matter and produce an image on film; also calledroentgen rayThis Page Intentionally Left Blank417American Diabetes Association Complete Guide to Diabetes:  the Ultimate Home Diabetes
Reference.  Second edition.  Alexandria, VA, American Diabetes Association, 1999
Calhoun S, Bradley J:  Nutrition, Cancer, and You:  What You Need to Know, and Where
to Start.  Lenexa, KS, Addax Publishing Group, 1997
Collazo-Clavell M (editor):  Mayo Clinic on Managing Diabetes.  Rochester, MN, 
Mayo Clinic, 2001
Corriher SO:  Cookwise:  The Hows and Whys of Successful Cooking.  New York,
William Morrow, 1997
Donovan MD (editor):  The Professional Chef’s Techniques of Healthy Cooking.  
New York, Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1997
Duyff RL:  The American Dietetic Association’s Complete Food & Nutrition Guide.
Minneapolis, Chronimed Publishing, 1998
Ensminger AH, Ensminger ME, Konlande JE, Robson JRK:  Foods & Nutrition
Encyclopedia.  Second edition.  Boca Raton, CRC Press, 1994
Ensminger AH, Ensminger ME, Konlande JE, Robson JRK:  The Concise Encyclopedia 
of Foods and Nutrition.  Second edition.  Boca Raton, CRC Press, 1995
Fortin F , D’Amico S:  The Visual Food Encyclopedia:  the Definitive Practical Guide to
Food and Cooking.  New York, Macmillan Publishing, 1996
Gersh BJ (editor):  Mayo Clinic Heart Book:  the Ultimate Guide to Heart Health.  
Second edition.  New York, William Morrow & Company, 2000
Hagen PT (editor):  Mayo Clinic Guide to Self-Care:  Answers for Everyday Health
Problems.  Second edition.  Rochester, MN, Mayo Clinic, 1999
Heinerman J:  Heinerman’s New Encyclopedia of Fruits & Vegetables.  West Nyack, NY,
Parker, 1995
Hensrud DD (editor):  Mayo Clinic on Healthy Weight.  Rochester, MN, Mayo Clinic, 2000Herbst ST:  The Food Lover’s Tiptionary:  an A to Z Culinary Guide With More Than
4,500 Food and Drink Tips, Secrets, Shortcuts, and Other Things Cookbooks Never TellYou.  New York, Hearst Books, 1994reading listHerbst ST:  The New Food Lover’s Companion:  Comprehensive Definitions of Nearly
6,000 Food, Drink, and Culinary Terms.  Third edition.  Hauppauge, NY, Barron’sEducational Series, 2001
Hoffman M, Joachim D (editors):  Prevention’s the Healthy Cook:  the Ultimate Illustrated
Kitchen Guide to Great Low-Fat Food:  Featuring 450 Homestyle Recipes and Hundredsof Time-Saving Tips.  Emmaus, PA, Rodale Press, 1997
Johnson RV (editor):  Mayo Clinic Complete Book of Pregnancy & Baby’s First Year. 
New York, William Morrow & Company, 1994
Larson DE (editor):  Mayo Clinic Family Health Book.  Second edition.  New York,
William Morrow & Company, 1996
Margen S:  The Wellness Encyclopedia of Food and Nutrition:  How to Buy, Store, and
Prepare Every Fresh Food.  New York, Rebus, 1992
Rinzler CA:  The New Complete Book of Food:  A Nutritional, Medical and Culinary
Guide.  New York, Checkmark Books, 1999
Robbers JE, Tyler VE:  Tyler’s Herbs of Choice:  The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals.
New York, Haworth Herbal Press, 1999
Sarubin A:  The Health Professional’s Guide to Popular Dietary Supplements.  Chicago,
American Dietetic Association, 2000
Sheps SG (editor):  Mayo Clinic on High Blood Pressure.  Rochester, MN, Mayo Clinic, 1999Shils ME, Olson JA, Shike M, Ross AC (editors):  Modern Nutrition in Health and Disease.
Ninth edition.  Baltimore, Williams & Wilkins, 1999
Stare FJ, Whelan EM:  Fad-Free Nutrition.  Alameda, CA, Hunter House Publishers, 1998
Web Sites
Cancer
American Cancer Society:  http://www.cancer.org
American Institute for Cancer Research:  http://www.aicr.orgCancerNet:  http://cancernet.nci.nih.gov/index.htmlNational Cancer Institute:  http://rex.nci.nih.govDiabetes
American Diabetes Association:  http://www.diabetes.org/418 Reading ListReading List   419
National Institute of Diabetes & Digestive & Kidney Diseases:
http://www.niddk.nih.gov/index.htm
Heart Disease
American Heart Association:  http://www.americanheart.org/
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute:  http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/index.htmHypertension
Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH):  http://dash.bwh.harvard.edu
Nutrition
American Dietetic Association:  http://www.eatright.org
Dietary Guidelines for Americans:  http://warp.nal.usda.gov:80/fnic/dga/index.htmlFood Guide Pyramid:  http://www.nal.usda.gov:8001/py/pmap.htmHealthy People 2010:  http://web.health.gov/healthypeople/Mayo Clinic (health Web site):  http://www.MayoClinic.comT uft’s Nutrition Navigator:  http://navigator.tufts.edu/USDA Food and Nutrition Information Center:  http://warp.nal.usda.gov:80/fnic/Obesity
National Institutes of Health:  Aim for a Healthy Weight:http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health/public/heart/obesity/lose_wt/index.htm
Shape Up America!:  http://www.shapeup.orgOsteoporosis
National Osteoporosis Foundation:  http://www.nof.org
Osteoporosis and Related Bone Diseases National Resource Center:  http://www.osteo.orgSupplements
National Institutes of Health Office of Dietary Supplements:  http://ods.od.nih.gov/databases/ibids.html
(All Web sites were retrieved on June 29, 2001.)This Page Intentionally Left Blank421APPENDIX
DIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES
AND
NUTRIENTS IN FOODS
The tables on pages 422 to 429 are from Dietary Reference Intakes, National Academy
of Sciences, National Academy Press, Washington, DC, 2001.
The data on pages 434 to 483 are from U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural
Research Service.  1999.  USDA Nutrient Database for Standard Reference, Release 13.
Nutrient Data Laboratory Home Page, http://www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp.  In someinstances, manufacturers’ data also were used.  This does not indicate an endorsement of
the product.  “0” value = negligible level.  (-) = value not available.  Values were rounded
to nearest decimal point.Life Stage Vitamin A Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E Vitamin K Thiamin Riboflavin
Group (μg/d)a (mg/d) (μg/d)b,c (mg/d)d (μg/d) (mg/d) (mg/d)
Infants
0–6 mo 400* 40* 5* 4* 2.0* 0.2* 0.3*
7–12 mo 500* 50* 5* 5* 2.5* 0.3* 0.4*
Children
1–3 y 300 15 5* 6 30* 0.5 0.5
4–8 y 400 25 5* 7 55* 0.6 0.6
Males
9–13 y 600 45 5* 11 60* 0.9 0.9
14–18 y 900 75 5* 15 75* 1.2 1.3
19–30 y 900 90 5* 15 120* 1.2 1.3
31–50 y 900 90 5* 15 120* 1.2 1.3
51–70 y 900 90 10* 15 120* 1.2 1.3
> 70 y 900 90 15* 15 120* 1.2 1.3
Females
9–13 y 600 45 5* 11 60* 0.9 0.9
14–18 y 700 65 5* 15 75* 1.0 1.0
19–30 y 700 75 5* 15 90* 1.1 1.1
31–50 y 700 75 5* 15 90* 1.1 1.1
51–70 y 700 75 10* 15 90* 1.1 1.1
> 70 y 700 75 15* 15 90* 1.1 1.1
Pregnancy
/H1134918 y 750 80 5* 15 75* 1.4 1.4
19–30 y 770 85 5* 15 90* 1.4 1.4
31–50 y 770 85 5* 15 90* 1.4 1.4
Lactation
/H1134918 y 1,200 115 5* 19 75* 1.4 1.6
19–30 y 1,300 120 5* 19 90* 1.4 1.6
31–50 y 1,300 120 5* 19 90* 1.4 1.6
NOTE: This table (taken from the Dietary Reference Intake reports, see www.nap.edu) presents Recommended Dietary Al-
lowances (RDA) in bold type and Adequate Intakes (AIs) in ordinary type followed by an asterisk (*).  RDAs and AIs may both
be used as goals for individual intake.  RDAs are set to meet the needs of almost all (97 to 98 percent) individuals in a group .
For healthy breastfed infants, the AI is the mean intake.  The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed to coverneeds of all individuals in the group, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent being able to specify with confidenc e
the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.
aAs retinol activity equivalents (RAEs).  1 RAE = 1 μg retinol, 12 μg β-carotene, 24 μg α-carotene, or 24 μg β-cryptoxanthin.
To calculate RAEs from REs of provitamin A carotenoids in food, divide the REs by 2.  For preformed vitamin A in foods or
supplements and for provitamin A carotenoids in supplements, 1 RE = 1 RAE.
bCalciferol. 1 μg Calciferol = 40 IU vitamin D. 
cIn the absence of adequate exposure to sunlight.
dAsα-tocopherol. α-tocopherol includes RRR- α-tocopherol, the only form of α-tocopherol that occurs naturally in foods,
and the 2R-stereoisomeric forms of α-tocopherol (RRR-, RSR-, RRS-, and RSS- α-tocopherol) that occur in fortified foods
and supplements.  It does not include the 2S-stereoisomeric forms of α-tocopherol (SRR-, SSR-, SRS-, and SSS- α-
tocopherol), also found in fortified foods and supplements.422 Appendix
TABLE 1:DIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES (DRI S):  R ECOMMENDED INTAKES
FORINDIVIDUALS .  VITAMINS :  FOOD AND NUTRITION BOARD , INSTITUTE
OFMEDICINE , NATIONAL ACADEMIESNiacin Vitamin B6Folate Vitamin B12Pantothenic Biotin Choline
(mg/d)e (mg/d) (μg/d)f (μg/d) Acid (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d)g
2* 0.1* 65* 0.4* 1.7* 5* 125*
4* 0.3* 80* 0.5* 1.8* 6* 150*
6 0.5 150 0.9 2* 8* 200*
8 0.6 200 1.2 3* 12* 250*
12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 25* 550*
16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
16 1.3 400 2.4 5* 30* 550*
16 1.7 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
16 1.7 400 2.4h5* 30* 550*
12 1.0 300 1.8 4* 20* 375*
14 1.2 400i2.4 5* 25* 400*
14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
14 1.3 400i2.4 5* 30* 425*
14 1.5 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
14 1.5 400 2.4h5* 30* 425*
18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
18 1.9 600j2.6 6* 30* 450*
17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
17 2.0 500 2.8 7* 35* 550*
eAs niacin equivalents (NE).  1 mg of niacin = 60 mg of tryptophan; 0-6 months = preformed niacin (not NE). 
fAs dietary folate equivalents (DFE).  1 DFE = 1 μg food folate = 0.6 μg of folic acid from fortified food or 
as a supplement consumed with food = 0.5 μg of a supplement taken on an empty stomach.
gAlthough AIs have been set for choline, there are few data to assess whether a supply of choline is needed
at all stages of the life cycle, and it may be that the choline requirement can be met by endogenous synthesis
at some of these stages.
hBecause 10-30 percent of older people may malabsorb food-bound B12, it is advisable for those older than 
50 years to meet their RDA mainly by consuming foods fortified with B12or a supplement containing B12.
iIn view of evidence linking folate intake with neural tube defects in the fetus, it is recommended that all
women capable of becoming pregnant consume 400 μg from supplements or fortified foods in addition to
intake of food folate from a varied diet.
jIt is assumed that women will continue consuming 400 μg of folic acid from supplements or fortified food
until their pregnancy is confirmed and they enter prenatal care, which ordinarily occurs after the end of the
periconception period—the critical time for formation of the neural tube.Dietary Reference Intakes 423424 Appendix
Life Stage Calcium Chromium Copper Fluoride Iodine Iron
Group (mg/d) (μg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d)
Infants
0–6 mo 210* 0.2* 200* 0.01* 110* 0.27*
7–12 mo 270* 5.5* 220* 0.5* 130* 11*
Children
1–3 y 500* 11* 340 0.7* 90 7
4–8 y 800* 15* 440 1* 90 10
Males
9–13 y 1,300* 25* 700 2* 120 8
14–18 y 1,300* 35* 890 3* 150 11
19–30 y 1,000* 35* 900 4* 150 8
31–50 y 1,000* 35* 900 4* 150 8
51–70 y 1,200* 30* 900 4* 150 8
> 70 y 1,200* 30* 900 4* 150 8
Females
9–13 y 1,300* 21* 700 2* 120 8
14–18 y 1,300* 24* 890 3* 150 15
19–30 y 1,000* 25* 900 3* 150 18
31–50 y 1,000* 25* 900 3* 150 18
51–70 y 1,200* 20* 900 3* 150 8
> 70 y 1,200* 20* 900 3* 150 8
Pregnancy
/H1134918 y 1,300* 29* 1,000 3* 220 27
19–30 y 1,000* 30* 1,000 3* 220 27
31–50 y 1,000* 30* 1,000 3* 220 27
Lactation
/H1134918 y 1,300* 44* 1,300 3* 290 10
19–30 y 1,000* 45* 1,300 3* 290 9
31–50 y 1,000* 45* 1,300 3* 290 9
NOTE: This table presents Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDAs) in bold type and Adequate Intakes
(AIs) in ordinary type followed by an asterisk (*).  RDAs and AIs may both be used as goals for individual in-
take.  RDAs are set to meet the needs of almost all (97 to 98 percent) individuals in a group.  For healthy
breastfed infants, the AI is the mean intake.  The AI for other life stage and gender groups is believed tocover needs of all individuals in the group, but lack of data or uncertainty in the data prevent being able to
specify with confidence the percentage of individuals covered by this intake.
Sources:  Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride (1997);
Dietary Reference Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B
6, Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic
Acid, Biotin, and Choline (1998); Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and
Carotenoids (2000); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin A, Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium,
Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc (2001).  These re-ports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.TABLE 2:DIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES (DRI S):  R ECOMMENDED
INTAKES FOR INDIVIDUALS .  M INERALS :  FOOD AND NUTRITION
BOARD , INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE , NATIONAL ACADEMIESDietary Reference Intakes 425
Magnesium Manganese Molybdenum Phosphorus Selenium Zinc
(mg/d) (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d)
30* 0.003* 2* 100* 15* 2*
75* 0.6* 3* 275* 20* 3
80 1.2* 17 460 20 3
130 1.5* 22 500 30 5
240 1.9* 34 1,250 40 8
410 2.2* 43 1,250 55 11
400 2.3* 45 700 55 11
420 2.3* 45 700 55 11
420 2.3* 45 700 55 11
420 2.3* 45 700 55 11
240 1.6* 34 1,250 40 8
360 1.6* 43 1,250 55 9
310 1.8* 45 700 55 8
320 1.8* 45 700 55 8
320 1.8* 45 700 55 8
320 1.8* 45 700 55 8
400 2.0* 50 1,250 60 13
350 2.0* 50 700 60 11
360 2.0* 50 700 60 11
360 2.6* 50 1,250 70 14
310 2.6* 50 700 70 12
320 2.6* 50 700 70 12426 Appendix
TABLE 3:DIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES (DRI S):  T OLERABLE UPPER INTAKE
LEVELS (ULa).  V ITAMINS :  FOOD AND NUTRITION BOARD , INSTITUTE OF
MEDICINE , NATIONAL ACADEMIES
Life Stage Vitamin A Vitamin C Vitamin D Vitamin E
Group (μg/d)b (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d)c,d Vitamin K Thiamin Riboflavin
Infants
0–6 mo 600 NDf25 ND ND ND ND
7–12 mo 600 ND 25 ND ND ND ND
Children
1–3 y 600 400 50 200 ND ND ND
4–8 y 900 650 50 300 ND ND ND
Males, females
9–13 y 1,700 1,200 50 600 ND ND ND
14–18 y 2,800 1,800 50 800 ND ND ND
19–70 y 3,000 2,000 50 1,000 ND ND ND
> 70 y 3,000 2,000 50 1,000 ND ND ND
Pregnancy
/H1134918 y 2,800 1,800 50 800 ND ND ND
19–50 y 3,000 2,000 50 1,000 ND ND ND
Lactation
/H1134918 y 2,800 1,800 50 800 ND ND ND
19–50 y 3,000 2,000 50 1,000 ND ND ND
aUL = The maximum level of daily nutrient intake that is likely to pose no risk of adverse effects.  Unless otherwise specified,
the UL represents total intake from food, water, and supplements.  Due to lack of suitable data, ULs could not be established
for vitamin K, thamin, riboflavin, vitamin B12, pantothenic acid, biotin, or carotenoids.  In the absence of ULs, extra caution
may be warranted in consuming levels above recommended intakes.
bAs preformed vitamin A only.
cAsα-tocopherol; applies to any form of supplemental α-tocopherol.
dThe ULs for vitamin E, niacin, and folate apply to synthetic forms obtained from supplements, fortified foods, or a
combination of the two.
eβ-Carotene supplements are advised only to serve as a provitamin A source for individuals at risk of vitamin A deficiency.
fND = Not determinable due to lack of data on adverse effects in this age group and concern with regard to lack of ability to
handle excess amounts.  Source of intake should be from food only to prevent high levels of intake.
Sources:  Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride (1997); Dietary Reference
Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B6, Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline (1998); Dietary
Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids (2000); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin A,
Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc
(2001).  These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.Dietary Reference Intakes 427
Niacin Vitamin B6Folate Pantothenic Choline
(mg/d)d (mg/d) (μg/d)dVitamin B12Acid Biotin (g/d) Carotenoidse
ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND
ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND
10 30 300 ND ND ND 1.0 ND
15 40 400 ND ND ND 1.0 ND
20 60 600 ND ND ND 2.0 ND
30 80 800 ND ND ND 3.0 ND
35 100 1,000 ND ND ND 3.5 ND
35 100 1,000 ND ND ND 3.5 ND
30 80 800 ND ND ND 3.0 ND
35 100 1,000 ND ND ND 3.5 ND
30 80 800 ND ND ND 3.0 ND
35 100 1,000 ND ND ND 3.5 ND428 Appendix
TABLE 4:DIETARY REFERENCE INTAKES (DRI S):  T OLERABLE UPPER INTAKE
LEVELS (ULa).  M INERALS :  FOOD AND NUTRITION BOARD , INSTITUTE OF
MEDICINE , NATIONAL ACADEMIES
Life Stage Boron Calcium Copper Fluoride Iodine Iron
Group Arsenicb (mg/d) (g/d) Chromium (μg/d) (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d)
Infants
0–6 mo NDfND ND ND ND 0.7 ND 40
7–12 mo ND ND ND ND ND 0.9 ND 40
Children
1–3 y ND 3 2.5 ND 1,000 1.3 200 40
4–8 y ND 6 2.5 ND 3,000 2.2 300 40
Males, females
9–13 y ND 11 2.5 ND 5,000 10 600 40
14–18 y ND 17 2.5 ND 8,000 10 900 45
19–70 y ND 20 2.5 ND 10,000 10 1,100 45
> 70 y ND 20 2.5 ND 10,000 10 1,100 45
Pregnancy
/H1134918 y ND 17 2.5 ND 8,000 10 900 45
19–50 y ND 20 2.5 ND 10,000 10 1,100 45
Lactation
/H1134918 y ND 17 2.5 ND 8,000 10 900 45
19–50 y ND 20 2.5 ND 10,000 10 1,100 45
aUL = The maximum level of daily nutrient intake that is likely to pose no risk of adverse effects.  Unless otherwise specified,
the UL represents total intake from food, water, and supplements.  Due to lack of suitable data, ULs could not be established
for arsenic, chromium, and silicon.  In the absence of ULs, extra caution may be warranted in consuming levels above recom-
mended intakes.
bAlthough the UL was not determined for arsenic, there is no justification for adding arsenic to food or supplements.
cThe ULs for magnesium represent intake from a pharmacologic agent only and do not include intake from food and water.
dAlthough silicon has not been shown to cause adverse effects in humans, there is no justification for adding silicon to
supplements.
eAlthough vanadium in food has not been shown to cause adverse effects in humans, there is no justification for adding
vanadium to food, and vanadium supplements should be used with caution.  The UL is based on adverse effects in laboratory
animals and this data could be used to set a UL for adults but not children and adolescents.
fND = Not determinable due to lack of data on adverse effects in this age group and concern with regard to lack of ability to
handle excess amounts.  Source of intake should be from food only to prevent high levels of intake.
Sources:  Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D, and Fluoride (1997); Dietary Reference
Intakes for Thiamin, Riboflavin, Niacin, Vitamin B6, Folate, Vitamin B12, Pantothenic Acid, Biotin, and Choline (1998); Dietary
Reference Intakes for Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, and Carotenoids (2000); and Dietary Reference Intakes for Vitamin A,
Vitamin K, Arsenic, Boron, Chromium, Copper, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Nickel, Silicon, Vanadium, and Zinc
(2001).  These reports may be accessed via www.nap.edu.Dietary Reference Intakes 429
Magnesium Manganese Molybdenum Nickel Phosphorus Selenium Vanadium Zinc
(mg/d)c (mg/d) (μg/d) (mg/d) (g/d) (μg/d) Silicond (mg/d)e (mg/d)
ND ND ND ND ND 45 ND ND 4
ND ND ND ND ND 60 ND ND 5
65 2 300 0.2 3 90 ND ND 7
110 3 600 0.3 3 150 ND ND 12
350 6 1,100 0.6 4 280 ND ND 23
350 9 1,700 1.0 4 400 ND ND 34
350 11 2,000 1.0 4 400 ND 1.8 40
350 11 2,000 1.0 3 400 ND 1.8 40
350 9 1,700 1.0 3.5 400 ND ND 34
350 11 2,000 1.0 3.5 400 ND ND 40
350 9 1,700 1.0 4 400 ND ND 34
350 11 2,000 1.0 4 400 ND ND 40430 Appendix
Vitamin
Vitamin A
Men:19 years or older – 900 micrograms 
Women: 
19 years or older – 700 micrograms 
Upper limit:
3,000 micrograms/day
Vitamin D
Men and women:
19–50 years – 5 micrograms
51–70 years – 10 micrograms71 years or older – 15 micrograms
Upper limit:
50 micrograms/day
Vitamin E
Men and women:19 years or older – 15 milligrams
Upper limit:
1,000 milligrams/day from supplement/
fortified foods
Vitamin K
Men:
19 years or older – 120 micrograms 
Women:
19 years or older – 90 micrograms
Upper limit:
Not established*
Vitamin C
Men:
19 years or older – 90 milligrams
Women: 
19 years or older – 75 milligrams
Upper limit:
2,000 milligrams/day
Thiamin (B
1)
Men:19 years or older – 1.2 milligrams
Women:  
19 years or older – 1.1 milligrams
Upper limit:
Not established*Food Sources
Fat-Soluble Vitamins
Vitamin A (retinol):  eggs, liver,
fortified dairy products, vitamin A-fortified foods.  Beta-carotenes(converted by the body into vitamin A):
dark green, yellow, and red vegetablesand fruit
Fortified dairy products, egg yolk, fatty
fish; also made by skin exposed tosunlight
Vegetable oil, wheat germ, margarine,
nuts, green leafy vegetables, beans
Green leafy vegetables, milk, dairy
products, meats, eggs, cereals, fruits;
also made by bacteria in gut
Water-Soluble Vitamins
Citrus fruits, strawberries, melon,
tomatoes, green and red peppers,collard greens, broccoli, spinach,potatoes
Wheat germ, whole and enriched
grains, brewer's yeast, organ meats,pork, legumes, seeds, nutsFunctions
Growth, reproduction, maintenance 
of body tissues, immune function, vision
Building and maintenance of bones
and teeth, calcium and phosphorus
metabolism
Antioxidant: protects cell membranes
and red blood cells from oxidationdamage; immune function
Formation of blood clotting substances
and building of bones
Maintains collagen (intracellular
cement):  blood vessel integrity;
enhances immunity, wound healing;
antioxidant; increases absorption of
iron from plant foods
Carbohydrate metabolism, nerve
function, growth, and muscle toneTABLE 5:A Q UICK LOOK – VITAMINS , THEIR FUNCTIONS AND FOOD SOURCES
Below are recommended vitamin intakes for adults aged 19 or older.
(For infants, children, or women who are pregnant or lactating, see pages 422-423 and 426-427.)Vitamins 431
Riboflavin (B2)
Men:19 years or older – 1.3 milligrams
Women: 
19 years or older – 1.1 milligrams
Upper limit:
Not established*
Niacin (B
3)
Men:19 years or older – 16 milligrams
Women:  
19 years or older – 14 milligrams
Upper limit:
35 milligrams/day from supplement/
fortified foods
Pyridoxine (B
6)
Men and women:19–50 years – 1.3 milligrams
51 years or older – 
Men: 1.7 milligrams
Women:  1.5 milligrams
Upper limit:
100 milligrams/day
Folate
Men and women: 19 years or older – 400 micrograms
Upper limit:
1,000 micrograms/day from 
supplement/fortified foods
Cobalamin (B
12)
Men and women:19 years or older – 2.4 micrograms
Upper limit:
Not established*
Biotin
Men and women:19 years or older – 30 micrograms
Upper limit:
Not established*
Choline
Men:19 years or older – 550 milligrams
Women:
19 years or older – 425 milligrams
Upper limit:
3,500 milligramsDairy products, whole and enriched
grain products, animal proteins
Animal protein, enriched grains, dried
beans and peas
Fish, poultry, meat, liver, whole grains,
potato
Legumes, green leafy vegetables,
fortified grain products, yeast, oranges,nuts
Animal and dairy products
Egg yolk, organ meats (kidney, liver),
milk, dark green vegetables
Eggs, liver, soybeans, cauliflower,
lettuce, fats that are emulsified such as
margarine and salad dressingsEnergy release in cells, maintenance 
of tissues
Energy release in cells, growth
hormone production, skin and gut
maintenance, nerve function
Energy release in cells, red blood cell
formation, nerve function
Prevention of birth defects, red blood
cell formation, growth and cell 
division
Red blood cell formation, nerve
function, energy release in cells
Formation of fatty acids, utilization 
of B vitamins, nerve maintenance
Growth and development, nerve
transmission, component of
lipoproteins and cell membranes 
(continues )432 Appendix
These values are from the tables on pages 422-423 and 426-427.
*Upper limits not determinable.  Caution is advised in consuming amounts above recommended intakes. Pantothenic Acid
Men and women:19 years or older – 5 milligrams
Upper limit:
Not established*Animal products, whole-grain cereals,
legumesConversion of energy into blood
glucose, hormone synthesis, vitamin
utilization, nerve functionA Q UICK LOOK – VITAMINS , THEIR FUNCTIONS AND FOOD SOURCES (continued )
Mineral 
Calcium
Men and women: 19–50 years – 1,000 milligrams
51 years or older – 1,200 milligrams
Upper limit:
2,500 milligrams/day
Chromium
Men:
19–50 years – 35 micrograms51 years or older – 30 micrograms
Women: 
19–50 years – 25 micrograms51 years or older – 20 micrograms
Upper limit:
Not established*
Copper
Men and women: 19 years or older – 900 micrograms
Upper limit:
10,000 micrograms
Fluoride
Men:19 years and older – 4 milligrams
Women :
19 years or older – 3 milligrams
Upper limit:
10 milligrams/day
Iodine
Men and women:19 years or older – 150 micrograms
Upper limit:
1,100 microgramsFood Sources
Milk and milk products, fish withedible bones, dark green vegetables,fortified foods
Brewer’s yeast, wheat germ, cheese,
whole grains
Liver, seafoods, nuts and seeds, cocoa
powder
Fluoridated water, tea, ocean fish with
edible bones
Iodized salt, seafoodFunctions
Bone development and maintenance,
nerve function, blood clotting, musclecontraction
Glucose regulation, muscle function
Formation of red blood cells,
pigmentation, bone maintenance
Reduction of dental caries, bone
maintenance
Thyroid function, growth, mental
development, energy metabolismTABLE 6:A Q UICK LOOK – M INERALS , THEIR FUNCTIONS AND FOOD SOURCES
Below are recommended mineral intakes for adults aged 19 or older.
(For infants, children, or women who are pregnant or lactating, see pages 424-425 and 428-429.)Minerals 433
Iron
Men:19 years or older – 8 milligrams
Women:  
19–50 years – 18 milligrams 
51 years or older – 8 milligrams
Upper limit:
45 milligrams
Magnesium
Men:
19–30 years – 400 milligrams
31 years or older – 420 milligrams 
Women:  
19–30 years – 310 milligrams31 years or older – 320 milligrams 
Upper limit:
350 milligrams from supplement only 
Manganese
Men:
19 years or older – 2.3 milligrams
Women:  
19 years or older – 1.8 milligrams
Upper limit:
11 milligrams
Molybdenum
Men and women:
19 years or older – 45 micrograms
Upper limit:
2,000 micrograms
Phosphorus
Men and women:
19 years or older – 700 milligrams
Upper limit:
19–70 years – 4,000 milligrams/day
71 years or older – 3,000 milligrams/day 
Selenium
Men and women:19 years or older – 55 micrograms
Upper limit:
400 milligrams/day
Zinc
Men:19 years or older – 11 milligrams
Women:  
19 years or older – 8 milligrams 
Upper limit:
40 milligrams/dayMeat, liver, egg yolk, dark green
vegetables, whole and enriched grain
products
Nuts, seeds, whole grains, wheat germ,
bran, green vegetables, bananas
Whole grains, fruits, vegetables, tea
Milk, beans, grain products
Animal and high-protein vegetable
products, whole grains
Seafood, meats, liver and kidney,
onions, grains
Meat, liver, eggs, seafoods, whole
grainsFormation of hemoglobin in blood 
and myoglobin in muscle, which 
helps with utilization of oxygen
Enzyme, nerve and muscle function,
bone growth
Reproduction, growth, bone 
formation, glucose regulation
Enzyme systems, nerve function,
mental development
Bone development and maintenance,
energy release
Antioxidant, fat utilization, heart
muscle maintenance
Growth, wound healing, taste and
smell sensitivity
These values are from the tables on pages 424-425 and 428-429.*Upper limits not determinable.  Caution is advised in consuming amounts above recommended intakes. 434 Appendix
Serving size
Acerola (West Indian cherry), 1 cup 98  31 0 0 8 1 12 0 18 11
raw
Apple, raw, with skin 1 medium (2 3/4 ″diameter) 138 81 0 0 21 4 10 0 7 10
Apricot, raw 2 apricots 70 34 1 0 8 2 10 0 6 13
Apricot, dried, uncooked 9 halves 32 75 1 0 19 3 14 1 15 37
Avocado, raw 1 200 324 4 31 15 10 22 2 78 82
Banana, raw 1 medium (7 ″to 7 7/8 ″long) 118 10 9112 8 3 7 03 42 4
Blackberry, raw 1/2 cup 72 37 1 0 9 4 23 0 14 15
Blueberry, raw 1/2 cup (about 53 berries) 73 41 0 0 10 2 4 0 4 7
Breadfruit, raw 1/4 small fruit 96 99 1 0 26 5 16 1 24 29
Cantaloupe, raw 1 medium wedge 138 48 1 0 12 1 15 0 15 23
(1/4 of medium melon)
Carambola (starfruit), raw 1 large (4 1/2 ″long) 127 42 1 0 10 3 5 0 11 20
Casaba melon, raw 1 cup, cubes 170 44 2 0 11 1 9 1 14 12
Cherimoya, raw 1/8 fruit, without skin and seeds 68 64 1 0 16 2 16 0 (-) 27
Cherry, sweet, raw 1/2 cup, without pits (11 fruits) 73 52 1 1 12 2 11 0 8 14
Cherry, sour, red, raw 1/2 cup, without pits (11 fruits) 78 39 1 0 9 1 12 0 7 12
Coconut meat (nuts), raw 1 piece (1 1/4 ″x 1″diameter) 23 80 1 8 3 2 3 1 7 25
Cranberry, raw 1/2 cup, whole 48 23 0 0 6 2 3 0 2 4
Currant, red and white, raw 1/2 cup 56 31 1 0 8 2 18 1 7 25
Date, domestic, natural, 5 dates, dried 42 11 4103 1 3 1 301 51 7
and dry
Durian, raw or frozen 1/4 cup, chopped or diced 61 89 0 3 16 2 4 0 18 23
Elderberry, raw 1/2 cup 73 53 0 0 13 5 28 1 4 28
Feijoa, raw 3 fruits, without peel 150 74 2 1 16 (-) 26 0 14 30
Fig, raw 3 medium (2 1/4 ″diameter) 150 11 1102 9 5 5 312 62 1
Fig, dried, uncooked 2 figs 38 97 1 0 25 5 55 1 22 26
Gooseberry, raw 1/2 cup 75 33 1 0 8 3 19 0 8 20
Grapefruit, raw, pink, red, 1/2 medium (approx 4 ″diameter), 128 41 1 0 10 1 15 0 10 10
and white without peel
Grapes, American type 1/2 cup (18 fruits) 46 31 0 0 8 0 6 0 2 5
(slip skin), raw
Grapes, red or green, 1/2 cup, seedless (18 fruits) 80 57 1 0 14 1 9 0 5 10
seedless, raw
Guava, common, raw 1 fruit, without peel 90 46 1 1 11 5 18 0 9 23
Honeydew melon, raw 1 wedge 125 44 1 0 11 1 8 0 9 13
(1/8 of 5 1/4 ″diameter melon)
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)TABLE 7:NUTRIENTS IN FOODS
FRUITSNutrients in Foods 435
143 7 0 0 (-) 1 1,644 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 14 0.0 752 75 00000
1 5 90 0000 8 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 4 0 . 07 3 7 00000
2 0 71 0000 7 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 6 0 . 0 1,828 183 10000
4 3 43 0001 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 0 3 0 . 0 2,281 228 00000
1,204 20 1001 1 60 . 2 0 . 2 3 . 8 2 0 . 5 1 2 4 0 . 0 1,230 123 3 5 19 4 0
4 6 71 0001 1 10 . 1 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 7 2 3 0 . 09 6 9 00000
1 4 10 0010 1 50 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 2 4 0 . 0 1 1 91 210000
6 5 4 0000 9 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 5 0 . 07 3 7 10000
4 7 02 0001 2 80 . 1 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 03 8 4 10000
4 2 6 1 20000 5 80 . 1 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 2 2 3 0 . 0 4,449 444 00000
2 0 73 0001 2 70 . 0 0 . 0 1 ( - ) 0 . 1 1 8 0 . 0 6 2 66 200000
3 5 7 2 000 ( - ) 1 2 70 . 1 0 . 0 1 ( - ) 0 . 2 2 9 0 . 05 1 5 00000
(-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 6 0.1 0.1 1 (-) (-) (-) 0.0 7 1 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
1 6 20 0000 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 3 0 . 0 1 5 51 500000
1 3 42 0000 8 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 6 0 . 0 9 9 49 900000
8 0 5 0002 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 6 0 . 0 0 0 07000
3 4 0 0000 6 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 1 0 . 02 2 2 00000
1 5 41 0000 2 30 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 4 0 . 06 7 7 00000
2 7 11 0001 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 1 5 0 . 02 1 2 00000
265 0 0 0 0 (-) 12 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 (-) 0.0 27 3 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
2 0 34 00 ( - ) 0 2 60 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 2 4 0 . 0 4 3 54 410000
233 5 0 0 0 (-) 30 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.1 57 0.0 0 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
3 4 82 0001 3 0 . 1 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 2 9 0 . 0 2 1 32 110000
2 7 14 0000 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 3 0 . 05 1 5 00000
1 4 91 0000 2 10 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 5 0 . 0 2 1 82 2000001 7 80 0002 4 40 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 0 1 5 91 500000
8 8 1 0000 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 2 0 . 04 6 5 00000
1 4 82 0000 9 0 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 3 0 . 05 8 6 10000
2 5 63 00011 6 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 0 7 1 37 1100003 3 9 1 30001 3 10 . 1 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 1 8 0 . 05 0 5 00000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)Potassium (mg)
(continues )436 Appendix
Serving size
Jackfruit, raw 1/2 cup, sliced 83 78 1 0 20 1 28 0 31 30
Jujube, raw 3.5 oz 100 79 1 0 20 (-) 21 0 10 23
Jujube, dried 1 oz 28 82 1 0 21 (-) 22 0 10 28
Kiwi fruit, fresh, raw 1 large, without skin 91 56 1 0 14 3 24 0 27 36
Kumquat, raw 4 fruits, without peel 76 48 1 0 12 5 33 0 10 14
Lemon, raw, with peel 1 fruit, without seeds 108 22 1 0 12 5 66 1 13 16
Lime, raw 1 fruit (2 ″diameter) 67 20 0 0 7 2 22 0 4 12
Longan, raw 10 fruits, without peel 32 19 0 0 5 0 0 0 3 7
Longan, dried 10 g 10 29 0 0 7 (-) 5 1 5 20
Loquat, raw 1/2 cup, cubed 75 35 0 0 9 1 12 0 10 20
Lychee, raw 10 fruits, without peel 96 63 1 0 16 1 5 0 10 30
Lychee, dried 10 fruits 25 69 1 0 18 1 8 0 11 45
Mango, raw 1/2 fruit, without peel 104 67 1 0 18 2 10 0 9 11
Mulberry, raw 1/2 cup 70 30 1 0 7 1 27 1 13 27
Nectarine, raw 1 fruit (2 1/2 ″diameter) 136 67 1 1 16 2 7 0 11 22
Olives, ripe, canned 10 large (1/3 cup) 44 51 0 5 3 1 39 1 2 1
Orange, raw, all 1 fruit (2 5/8 ″diameter) 131 62 1 0 15 3 52 0 13 18
commercial varieties
Papaya, raw 1/4 medium (about 1/2 cup cubes) 76 30 0.5 0 8 2 18 0 8 4
Passion fruit, purple, raw 4 fruits, without peel 72 68 2 0 16 8 8 0 20 48
Peach, raw 1 medium (2 1/2 ″diameter) 98 42 1 0 11 2 5 0 7 12
Pear, raw 1 medium (2 1/2 per pound) 166 98 1 1 25 4 18 0 10 18
Pear, Asian, raw 1 fruit 122 51 1 0 13 4 5 0 10 13
(2 1/4” high /H110032-1/2” diameter)
Persimmon, Japanese, raw 1/2 fruit (2 1/2 ″diameter) 84 59 0 0 16 3 7 0 8 14
Pineapple, raw 1/2 cup, diced 78 38 0 0 10 1 5 0 11 5
Plantain, cooked 1/2 cup, mashed 100 11 6103 1 2 2 13 22 8
Plum, raw 1 fruit (2 1/8 ″diameter) 66 36 1 0 9 1 3 0 5 7
Pomegranate, raw 1 fruit (3 3/8 ″diameter) 154 10 5102 6 1 5 0 5 1 2
Prickly pear, raw 1 fruit, without peel 103 42 1 1 10 4 58 0 88 25
Prune (dried plum), uncooked 1/4 cup, pitted (about 5 fruits) 43 10 2102 7 3 2 211 93 4
Pummelo, raw 1/2 cup sections 95 36 1 0 9 1 4 0 6 16
Quince, raw 1 fruit, without peel 92 52 0 0 14 2 10 1 7 16
Raisins, seedless 1/4 cup, packed 41 12 4103 3 2 2 011 44 0Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)FRUITS (continued )Nutrients in Foods 437
2 5 02 0000 6 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 ( - ) 0 . 1 1 2 0 . 0 2 4 52 500000
250 3 0 0 0 (-) 69 0.0 0.0 1 (-) 0.1 (-) 0.0 40 4 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
149 2 0 0 0 (-) 4 0.0 0.1 0 (-) (-) (-) 0.0 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
3 0 25( - ) ( - ) ( - ) ( - )8 90 . 0 0 . 0 0 ( - ) 0 . 1 3 5 0 . 0 1 5 91 610000
1 4 85 0000 2 80 . 1 0 . 1 0 ( - ) 0 . 0 1 2 0 . 0 2 3 02 300000
1 5 73 00 ( - ) ( - )8 30 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 ( - ) 0 . 03 2 3( - ) 0000
6 8 1 0000 1 90 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 5 0 . 0 7 1 00000
85 0 0 0 0 (-) 27 0.0 0.0 0 (-) (-) (-) 0.0 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
66 5 0 0 0 (-) 3 0.0 0.0 0 0 (-) (-) 0.0 0 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
1 9 81 0000 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 ( - ) 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 1,138 114 10000
1 6 41 0001 6 90 . 0 0 . 1 1 ( - ) 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 0 0 0 10000
2 7 81 0000 4 60 . 0 0 . 1 1 ( - ) 0 . 0 3 0 . 0 0 0 00000
1 6 12 0001 2 90 . 1 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 1 1 4 0 . 0 4,030 403 10000
1 3 67 00 ( - ) 0 2 50 . 0 0 . 1 0 ( - ) 0 . 0 4 0 . 01 8 2 00000
2 8 80 0001 7 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 5 0 . 0 1,001 101 10000
43 8 4 0000 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 . 0 1 7 71 811300
2 3 70 0001 7 00 . 1 0 . 1 0 0 0 . 1 4 0 0 . 0 2 6 92 800000
1 9 63 0001 4 70 . 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 0 2 9 0 . 0 2 1 62 210000
2 5 2 2 000 ( - ) 0 2 00 . 0 0 . 0 1 ( - ) 0 . 0 1 2 0 . 0 5 0 45 210000
1 9 30 0000 6 0 . 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 0 3 0 . 0 5 2 45 310000
2 0 80 0002 7 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 0 0 . 0 1 2 0 . 03 3 3 100001 4 80 0001 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 1 0 0 . 0 0 0 10000
1 3 51 0001 6 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 ( - ) 0 . 1 6 0 . 0 1,820 182 00000
8 9 1 0010 1 20 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 8 0 . 01 8 2 00000
4 6 55 00 ( - ) 1 1 10 . 0 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 2 2 6 0 . 0 9 0 99 10000 ( - )
1 1 40 0000 6 0 . 0 0 . 1 0 0 0 . 1 1 0 . 0 2 1 32 100000
3 9 95 00 ( - ) 1 9 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 1 0 . 2 9 0 . 0 0 0 10000
2 2 75 00 ( - ) 1 1 40 . 0 0 . 1 0 ( - ) 0 . 1 6 0 . 05 3 5 00000
3 1 72 0001 1 0 . 0 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 1 2 0 . 0 8 4 48 510000
205 1 0 0 0 (-) 58 0.0 0.0 0 (-) 0.0 (-) 0.0 0 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
1 8 14 00 ( - ) 1 1 40 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 3 0 . 03 7 4 10000
3 1 05 0000 1 0 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 1 0 . 0 3 0 00000
(continues )Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)Potassium (mg)438 Appendix
Serving size
Rambutan, canned, 1/2 cup, drained 75 62 0 0 16 1 17 0 5 7
syrup pack
Raspberry, raw 1/2 cup (30 fruits) 62 30 1 0 7 4 14 0 11 7
Rhubarb, raw 1/2 cup, diced 61 13 1 0 3 1 52 0 7 9
Sapodilla, raw 1 fruit 170 14 1123 4 9 3 612 02 0
Strawberry, raw 1/2 cup, whole (5 fruits) 72 22 0 0 5 2 10 0 7 14
Tamarind, raw 10 fruits 20 48 1 0 13 1 15 1 18 23
Tangerine, raw 1 medium (2 3/8 ″diameter) 84 37 1 0 9 2 12 0 10 8
Watermelon, raw 1/2 cup, diced 76 24 0 0 5 0 6 0 8 7
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)FRUITS (continued )
Serving size
Amaranth leaves, cooked 1/2 cup 66 14 1 0 3 (-) 138 2 36 48 423
Artichoke, cooked 1 medium globe 120 60 4 0 13 6 54 2 72 103 425
Arugula, raw 1 cup 20 5 1 0 1 0 32 0 9 10 74
Asparagus, raw 4 medium spears 64 14 1 0 3 1 13 1 11 36 175
(5 1/4 ″to 7″long)
Asparagus, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup (6 spears, 90 22 2 0 4 1 18 1 9 49 144
without salt 1/2 ″base)
Bamboo (shoots), cooked 1/2 cup (1/2 ″slices) 60 7 1 0 1 1 7 0 2 12 320
Beans, snap, green, cooked, boiled, 1/2 cup 67 22 1 0 5 2 29 1 16 24 187
drained, without salt
Beans, snap, yellow, cooked, boiled, 1/2 cup 67 22 1 0 5 2 29 1 16 24 187
drained, without salt
Beet, cooked, boiled, drained 1/2 cup slices 85 37 1 0 8 2 14 1 20 32 259
Beet greens, cooked 1/2 cup 72 19 2 0 4 2 82 1 49 30 655VEGETABLES
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 439
1 410112 7 0 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 1 3 7 0 . 0 1,830 183 (-) 0 0 0 0
1 1 4 10001 2 0 . 1 0 . 1 10 0 . 1 6 1 0 . 02 1 2 2 2 00000
5 0000 30 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 1 9 0 . 04 7 5 4 7 00000
1 0001 80 . 1 0 . 1 10 0 . 1 8 2 0 . 03 7 3 3 7 10000
1 000021 0 0 . 1 0 . 1 10 0 . 1 1 3 1 0 . 04 8 5 4 9 00000
2 0000 00 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 110 . 0 0 0 ( - ) 00002 0000 60 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 0 2 1 0 . 04 1 6 4 2 00000
2 0000 60 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 0 2 1 0 . 0 5 1 5 00000
6 50001 30 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 6 8 0 . 0 3 0 3 00000
1 7 4 00011 8 0 . 1 0 . 2 00 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 3,672 367 0 0 0 0 0
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )32 8 0 0 0 (-) 4 0.0 0.0 1 0 0.0 6 0.0 2 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0
9 3 0 0010 1 50 . 0 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 1 6 0 . 08 0 8 00000
1 7 62 0001 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 4 0 . 06 1 6 00000
3 2 8 2 000 ( - ) 1 2 50 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 2 4 0 . 0 1 0 21 000100
1 2 01 0001 4 10 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 1 3 0 . 01 9 2 00000
1 2 66 00 ( - ) 0 1 0 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 3 0 . 0 6 1 00000
1 3 21 0000 2 60 . 1 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 1 7 0 . 0 7 7 37 700000
8 8 2 0000 7 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 1 2 0 . 0 2 7 82 800000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)Potassium (mg)440 Appendix
Serving size
Bitter melon (balsam-pear), leafy tips, 1/2 cup 29 10 1 0 2 0 12 0 27 22 175
cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Bitter melon (balsam-pear), pods, 1/2 cup 62 12 1 0 3 1 6 0 10 22 198
cooked, boiled, drained, without salt (1/2″pieces)
Broccoli, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup 78 22 2 0 4 2 36 1 19 46 228
without salt (about 2 spears)
Broccoli, raw 1/2 cup (about 3 florets) 33 9 1 0 2 (-) 15 0 8 22 107
Brussels sprouts, cooked, boiled, 1/2 cup 78 30 2 0 7 2 28 1 16 44 247
drained, without salt (about 4 medium)
Cabbage, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, shredded 75 17 1 0 3 2 23 0 6 11 73
without salt
Cabbage, raw 1 cup, shredded 70 18 1 0 4 2 33 0 11 16 172
Carrot, cooked 1/2 cup 78 35 1 0 8 3 24 0 10 23 177
Carrot, raw 1 medium 61 26 1 0 6 2 16 0 9 27 140
Cassava, raw 1/4 cup 51 82 1 0 20 1 8 0 11 14 140Cauliflower, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup (1 ″pieces) 62 14 1 0 3 2 10 0 6 20 88
without salt
Cauliflower, raw 1/2 cup 50 13 1 0 3 1 11 0 8 22 152
Celeriac, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, pieces 77 21 1 0 5 1 20 0 9 51 134
without salt
Celeriac, raw 1/2 cup 78 33 1 0 7 1 34 0 16 90 234Celery, cooked, boiled, drained, 2 stalks 75 14 1 0 3 1 32 0 9 19 213
without salt
Celery, raw 2 medium stalks 80 13 1 0 3 1 32 0 9 20 230
(7 1/2 ″–8″long)
Chayote, fruit, cooked, boiled, 1/2 cup (1 ″pieces) 80 17 1 0 4 2 10 0 10 23 138
drained, without salt
Chicory greens, raw 1 cup, chopped 180 41 3 1 8 7 180 2 54 85 756
Chicory roots, raw 1/2 cup (1 ″pieces) 45 33 1 0 8 (-) 18 0 10 27 131
Chinese cabbage (bok choy), cooked, 1/2 cup, shredded 85 10 1 0 2 1 79 1 9 25 316
boiled, drained, without salt
Chinese cabbage (bok choy), raw 1 cup, shredded 70 9 1 0 2 1 74 1 13 26 176
Chinese cabbage (napa), cooked 1/2 cup 55 7 1 0 1 (-) 16 0 4 10 47
Collards, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, chopped 95 25 2 0 5 3 113 0 16 25 247
without salt
Corn, sweet, yellow, cooked, 1/2 cup, cut 82 89 3 1 21 2 2 1 26 84 204
boiled, drained, without saltVEGETABLES (continued )
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 441
4 00001 6 0 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 2 2 5 0 . 05 0 3 5 0 00000
4 00002 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 3 2 0 . 0 7 0 7 00000
2 000015 8 0 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 1 3 9 0 . 0 1,082 108 1 0 0 0 0
9 00013 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 2 3 0 . 09 9 0 9 9 00000
1 600014 8 0 . 1 0 . 1 00 0 . 1 4 7 0 . 05 6 1 5 6 10000
6 00001 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 5 0 . 0 9 9 1 0 00000
1 300012 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 3 0 0 . 0 9 3 9 00000
5 10011 20 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 2 1 1 0 . 0 19,152 1,915 0 0 0 0 0
2 10001 60 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 190 . 0 17,159 1,716 0 0 0 0 0
7 00001 1 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 1 4 0 . 0 1 3 1 00000
9 00002 7 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 2 7 0 . 0 1 1 1 00000
1 500002 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 2 9 0 . 0 1 0 1 000004 70000 30 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 130 . 0 0 0 ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) 0
7 80001 60 . 0 0 . 0 10 0 . 160 . 0 0 0 000006 80001 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 7 0 . 0 9 9 1 0 00000
7 00000 60 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 2 2 0 . 01 0 7 1 0 00000
1 0000 60 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 4 0 . 0 3 7 4 ( - ) 0000
8 111114 3 0 . 1 0 . 2 12 0 . 2 1 9 7 0 . 0 7,200 720 4 0 0 0 0
2 30000 20 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 3 0 ( - ) 0000
2 900002 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 3 5 0 . 0 2,183 218 0 0 0 0 0
4 6000 ( - ) 3 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 4 6 0 . 0 2,100 210 0 0 0 0 0
6 2000 20 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 2 3 0 . 0 4 8 5 ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) 0
9 00111 7 0 . 0 0 . 1 10 0 . 1 8 8 0 . 0 2,973 297 1 0 0 0 0
1 40001 50 . 2 0 . 1 11 0 . 0 3 8 0 . 01 7 8 1 8 00000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )442 Appendix
Serving size
Corn, sweet, yellow, cooked, 1 ear kernels 77 83 3 1 19 2 2 0 25 79 192
boiled, drained, without salt
Cress (watercress), raw 1 cup 34 4 1 0 0 1 41 0 7 20 112
Cucumber, with peel, raw 1/2 cup, slices 52 7 0 0 1 0 7 0 6 10 75
Eggplant, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup (1 ″cubes) 50 14 0 0 3 1 3 0 6 11 123
without salt
Fennel, bulb, raw 1/2 cup, sliced 87 13 0 0 3 1 21 0 7 22 180
Fennel seed (spice) 1 teaspoon 2 7 0 0 1 1 24 0 8 10 34
Fenugreek seed (spice) 1 teaspoon 4 12 1 0 2 1 6 1 7 11 28
Garlic, raw 1 teaspoon (about 3 4 0 0 1 0 5 0 1 4 11
1 clove)
Gingerroot, raw 5 slices (1 ″ diameter) 11 8 0 0 2 0 2 0 5 3 46
Gingerroot, raw 1 teaspoon 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
Horseradish, prepared 1 teaspoon 5 2 0 0 1 0 3 0 1 2 12
Jerusalem artichoke, raw 1/2 cup, slices 75 57 2 0 13 1 11 3 13 59 322
Jicama (yam bean), raw 1/2 cup, slices 60 23 0 0 5 3 7 0 7 11 90
Kelp (seaweed), raw 1/8 cup 10 4 0 0 1 0 17 0 12 4 9
Kohlrabi, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, slices 83 24 1 0 6 1 21 0 16 37 281
without salt
Kohlrabi, raw 1/2 cup 70 18 1 0 4 2 16 0 13 31 236Leek (bulb and lower leaf 1/2 cup 52 16 0 0 4 1 16 1 7 9 45
portion), cooked, boiled, 
drained, without salt
Leek (bulb and lower leaf 1/2 cup 45 27 1 0 6 1 26 1 12 16 80
portion), raw, chopped
Lettuce, butterhead (includes 1 cup, shredded 55 7 1 0 1 1 18 0 7 13 141
Boston and Bibb types), raw
Lettuce, iceberg (includes crisphead 1 cup, shredded 55 7 1 0 1 1 10 0 5 11 87
types), raw
Lettuce, looseleaf, raw 1 cup, shredded 56 10 1 0 2 1 38 1 6 14 148
Lettuce, romaine, raw 1 cup, shredded 56 8 1 0 1 1 20 1 3 25 162Mushroom, cooked, boiled, 7 medium 84 22 2 0 4 2 5 1 10 73 299
drained, without salt
Mushroom, raw 1/2 cup, pieces 35 9 1 0 1 0 2 0 4 36 130
Okra, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup slices 80 26 2 0 6 2 50 0 46 45 258
without saltVEGETABLES (continued )
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 443
1 30001 50 . 2 0 . 1 11 0 . 0 3 60 1 6 7 1 7 00000
1 400001 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 030 . 0 1,598 159 0 0 0 0 0
1 0000 30 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 070 . 01 1 2 1 1 00000
1 0000 10 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 070 . 0 3 2 3 00000
2 30000 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 1 2 0 . 0 5 8 6 ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) 0
2 0 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.0 0 (-) (-) (-) 0.0 3 0 (-) 0 0 0 0
2 0000 00 . 0 0 . 0 0 ( - ) ( - )20 . 0 2 0 ( - ) 0 ( - ) ( - ) 00 0000 10 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 000 . 0 0 0 00000
1 0000 10 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 010 . 0 0 0 00000
0 0000 00 . 0000 0 . 000 . 0 0 0 00000
1 60000 10 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 030 . 0 0 0 00000
3 0001 30 . 2 0 . 0 11 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 1 5 2 00000
2 00001 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 170 . 0 1 3 1 00000
2 30000 00 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 1 8 0 . 0 1 2 1 000001 700014 5 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 2 9 3 10000
1 400004 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 1 0 . 0 2 4 3 00000
5 0000 20 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 0 2 4 3 ( - ) 0000
9 0000 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 2 9 0 . 0 4 2 4 00000
3 0000 40 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 4 0 0 . 05 3 4 5 3 00000
5 0000 20 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 3 1 0 . 01 8 2 1 8 00000
5 00001 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 2 8 0 . 0 1,064 106 0 0 0 0 0
4 00001 3 0 . 1 0 . 1 00 0 . 0 7 6 0 . 0 1,456 146 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 10 3 0.1 0.3 4 2 0.1 15 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 0003 10 . 0 0 . 1 11 0 . 040 . 0 0 0 00000
4 00111 3 0 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 2 3 7 0 . 04 6 0 4 6 10000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )444 Appendix
Serving size
Okra, cooked, boiled, drained, 8 pods (3 ″long) 85 27 2 0 6 2 54 0 48 48 273
without salt
Onion, cooked 1 medium 94 41 1 0 10 1 21 0 10 33 156
Onion, raw 1/2 cup, chopped 80 30 1 0 7 1 16 0 8 26 126
Parsley, raw 1 tablespoon 4 1 0 0 0 0 5 0 2 2 21
Parsnip, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, slices 78 63 1 0 15 3 29 0 23 54 286
without salt
Parsnip, raw 1/2 cup 67 50 1 0 12 3 24 0 19 47 249
Pepper, hot chili, green, raw 1 pepper 45 18 1 0 4 1 8 1 11 21 153
Pepper, hot chili, red, raw 1 pepper 45 18 1 0 4 1 8 1 11 21 153
Pepper, sweet, green, raw 1/2 cup, chopped 75 20 1 0 5 1 7 0 7 14 131
Pepper, sweet, red, raw 1/2 cup, chopped 75 20 1 0 5 1 7 0 7 14 132
Pepper, sweet, yellow, raw 1/2 cup, chopped 75 20 1 0 5 1 8 0 9 18 159
Potato, baked, flesh, without salt 1/2 cup 61 57 1 0 13 1 3 0 15 31 239Potato, baked, flesh and skin, 1 potato 202 22 0505 1 5 2 0 35 41 1 58 4 4
without salt (2 1/3 ″x 4 3/4 ″)
Radish, raw 1/2 cup, slices 58 12 0 0 2 1 12 0 5 10 135
(13 medium)
Rutabaga, cooked 1/2 cup, cubes 85 33 1 0 7 2 41 0 20 48 277
Rutabaga, raw 1/2 cup, cubes 70 25 1 0 6 2 33 0 16 41 236Salsify (vegetable oyster), cooked, 1/2 cup, slices 68 46 2 0 10 2 32 0 12 38 191
boiled, drained, without salt
Scallion (including top and bulb) 1/2 cup 50 16 1 0 4 1 36 1 10 19 138Spinach, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup 90 21 3 0 3 2 122 3 78 50 419
without salt
Spinach, raw 1 cup 30 7 1 0 1 1 30 1 24 15 167Squash, summer, all varieties, 1/2 cup, slices 90 18 1 0 4 1 24 0 22 35 173
cooked, boiled, drained, 
without salt
Squash, winter, all varieties, cooked, 1/2 cup, cubes 103 40 1 1 9 3 14 0 8 21 448
baked, without salt
Sweet potato, cooked, baked in skin, 3/4 cup 150 15 5303 6 5 4 2 13 0 8 3 5 2 2
without salt
Taro, cooked, without salt 1/2 cup 66 94 0 0 23 3 12 1 20 50 319
Taro leaves, cooked, steamed, 1/2 cup 72 17 2 0 3 1 62 1 15 20 333
without salt
Tomatillo, raw 1/2 cup, chopped 66 21 1 1 4 1 5 0 13 26 177VEGETABLES (continued )
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 445
4 00111 4 0 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 2 3 90 4 8 9 4 9 10000
3 0001 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 4 0 . 0 0 0 00000
2 0000 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 5 0 . 0 0 0 00000
2 0000 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 060 . 01 9 8 2 0 00000
8 00011 0 0 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 1 4 5 0 . 0 0 0 10000
7 00011 1 0 . 1 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 4 4 0 . 0 0 0 ( - ) 0000
3 0000 1 0 9 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 1 0 . 03 4 7 3 5 00000
3 0000 1 0 9 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 1 0 . 0 4,838 484 0 0 0 0 0
1 00006 6 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 2 1 6 0 . 04 7 1 4 7 10000
1 0000 1 4 2 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 2 1 6 0 . 0 4,247 425 1 0 0 0 0
2 0000 1 3 8 0 . 0 0 . 0 10 0 . 1 2 0 0 . 01 7 9 1 8( - ) 0 ( - ) ( - ) 0
3 0000 80 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 260 . 0 0 0 00000
1 611022 6 0 . 2 0 . 1 31 0 . 7 2 2 0 . 0 0 00 . 1 0000
1 400001 3 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 1 6 0 . 0 5 1 00000
1 700011 6 0 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 1 1 3 0 . 04 7 7 4 8 00000
1 400001 8 0 . 1 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 5 0 . 04 0 6 4 1 000001 10000 30 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 1 1 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 ( - ) ( - ) ( - ) 0
8 0000 90 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 0 3 2 0 . 01 9 3 2 0 00000
6 31011 90 . 1 0 . 2 00 0 . 2 1 3 1 0 . 0 7,371 737 1 0 0 0 0
2 40000 80 . 0 0 . 1 00 0 . 1 5 8 0 . 0 2,015 202 1 0 0 0 0
1 0000 50 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 1 1 8 0 . 02 5 8 2 6 00000
1 00001 0 0 . 1 0 . 0 10 0 . 1 2 9 0 . 0 3,646 365 0 0 0 1 0
1 500113 7 0 . 1 0 . 2 11 0 . 0 3 4 0 . 0 32,733 3,273 0 0 0 0 0
1 00000 30 . 1 0 . 0 00 0 . 2 1 3 0 . 0 0 0 00000
1 00012 6 0 . 1 0 . 3 10 0 . 1 3 5 0 . 0 3,073 307 (-) 0 0 0 0
1 0000 80 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 050 . 0 7 5 7 00000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )GRAINS (INCLUDING BREADS , CEREALS , FLOUR ,ANDPASTA)446 Appendix
Serving size
Tomato, red, ripe, raw 1 medium, whole 123 26 1 0 6 1 6 1 14 30 273
(2 3/5 ″diameter)
Turnip, cooked, boiled, drained, 1/2 cup, cubes 78 16 1 0 4 2 17 0 6 15 105
without salt
Turnip, raw 1/2 cup, cubes 65 18 1 0 4 1 20 0 7 18 124
Water chestnut, cooked 1/2 cup, slices 70 35 1 0 9 2 3 1 4 13 83
Water chestnut, raw 1/2 cup, slices 62 60 1 0 15 2 7 0 14 39 362
Yam, cooked, boiled, drained, or 1/2 cup, cubes 68 79 1 0 19 3 10 0 12 33 456
baked, without saltVEGETABLES (continued )
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)
BREADS Serving size
Bagels, plain, enriched, without calcium 1/2 bagel 35 96 4 1 19 1 6 1 10 34 36
propionate (includes onion, poppy, (3 1/2 ″diameter)
sesame)
Biscuits, plain or buttermilk, 1 biscuit 35 127 2 6 17 0 17 1 6 151 78
commercially baked
Bread, cornbread, dry mix, enriched 1 oz 28 119 2 3 20 2 16 1 7 139 32
(includes corn muffin mix) (about 3 tablespoons)
Bread, cornbread, prepared (made 1 piece 65 173 4 5 28 (-) 162 2 16 110 95
with 2% milk)
Bread, cracked-wheat 1 slice 25 6 5211 211 111 33 8 4 4
Bread, French or Vienna 1 slice 25 6 9211 311 91 7 2 6 2 8
(includes sourdough) (4 3/4 ″ ×4″×1/2″)
Bread, mixed-grain 1 slice 26 65 3 1 12 2 24 1 14 46 53
(includes whole-grain, 7-grain)
Bread, oat bran 1 slice 30 7 1311 212 011 14 2 4 4
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)Nutrients in Foods 447
1 9 0000 0 0 0 . 20 . 1 2 00 . 0 3 1 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
3 6 8000 7 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 1 0 . 0 1 0 1122 0
3 1 5000 2 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 3 0 0 . 0 3 3 3 0120 1
428 0 0 0 0 0 0.2 0.2 1 0 0.0 42 0.0 180 35 (-) 1 1 2 26
1 3 5000 6 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 1 1 5 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 5 2000 8 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 2 7000 8 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 1 2 1 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 2 2000 9 0 0 . 20 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 4 0 . 0 2 0 0001 0
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )1 1 00002 3 0 . 1 0 . 1 10 0 . 1 1 8 0 . 0 7 6 6 7 6 00000
3 90000 90 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 170 . 0 0 0 00000
4 400001 4 0 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 190 . 0 0 0 00000
6 0000 10 . 0 0 . 0 00 0 . 140 . 0 3 0 00000
9 0000 20 . 1 0 . 1 10 0 . 2 1 0 0 . 0 0 0 10000
5 0000 80 . 1 0 . 0 00 0 . 2 1 1 0 . 0 0 0 00000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)448 Appendix
BREADS (continued ) Serving size
Bread, pita, white, enriched 1 small pita 28 7 7301 612 41 7 2 7 3 4
(4″diameter)
Bread, pumpernickel 1 slice 26 6 5211 221 811 44 6 5 4
Bread, raisin, enriched 1 slice 26 7 1211 411 71 7 2 8 5 9
Bread, reduced-calorie, white 1 slice 23 4 8211 022 21 5 2 8 1 7
Bread, rye 1 slice 32 8 3311 522 311 34 0 5 3
Bread, wheat (includes wheat berry) 1 slice 25 6 5211 212 611 23 8 5 0
Bread, wheat bran 1 slice 36 8 9311 712 712 96 7 8 2
Bread, white, commercially prepared 1 slice 25 6 7211 212 71 6 2 4 3 0
(includes soft bread crumbs)
Bread, whole-wheat, commercially 1 slice 28 69 3 1 13 2 20 1 24 64 71
prepared
Croissants, butter 1 medium croissant 57 231 5 12 26 1 21 1 9 60 67
English muffins, raisin-cinnamon 1 muffin 57 139 4 2 28 2 84 1 9 39 119
(includes apple-cinnamon)
Rolls, dinner, plain, commercially 1 roll (1 oz) 28 8 5221 413 41 7 3 3 3 8
prepared (includes brown-and-serve)
Rolls, dinner, whole-wheat 1 roll (1 oz) 28 7 5211 423 012 46 4 7 7
Rolls, hamburger or hotdog, plain 1 roll 43 123 4 2 22 1 60 1 9 38 61
Taco shells, baked 2 medium 26 122 2 6 16 2 42 1 27 64 46
(approx 5 ″diameter)
Tortillas, ready-to-bake or -fry, corn 1 medium tortilla 26 58 1 1 12 1 46 0 17 82 40
(approx 6 ″diameter)
Tortillas, ready-to-bake or -fry, flour 1 medium tortilla 32 104 3 2 18 1 40 1 8 40 42
(approx 6 ″diameter)
CEREALS
Cereals, corn grits, white, regular, quick, 1/2 cup 121 73 2 0 16 00151 52 7
enriched, cooked with water, with salt
(corn)
Cereals, cream of rice, cooked with 1/2 cup 122 6 3101 4 04042 12 4
water, without salt 
Cereals, cream of wheat, regular, cooked 1/2 cup 126 67 2 0 14 1 25 5 5 21 21
with water, without salt
Cereals, farina, enriched, cooked with 1/2 cup 117 58 2 0 12 22121 41 5
water, without salt (wheat)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)GRAINS (INCLUDING BREADS , CEREALS , FLOUR ,ANDPASTA)(continued )Nutrients in Foods 449
1 5 0000 8 0 0 . 20 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 7 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 7 4000 6 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 1 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 0 1000 5 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 3 0 . 0 0 0 0010 0
1 0 4000 5 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 2 0 . 1 1 0 0000 0
2 1 10001 0 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 8 0 . 0 2 0 0000 0
1 3 3000 8 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 1 9 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 7 50011 1 0 0 . 10 . 1 2 00 . 1 2 5 0 . 0 0 0 0010 0
1 3 5000 7 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 4 81011 0 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 1 1 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
4 2 40001 3 0 0 . 20 . 1 1 00 . 0 3 5 0 . 14 2 4 1 0 607313 82 5 5100 9 0 0 . 20 . 2 2 00 . 0 4 6 0 . 0 1 0 0001 0
1 4 8000 8 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 7 0 . 0 0 0 0010 0
1 3 61011 4 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 1 9 0 . 0 0 0 0001 0
2 4 10001 1 0 0 . 20 . 1 2 00 . 0 4 1 0 . 0 0 0 1101 0
4 000( - ) 0 0 . 10 . 0 0 00 . 0 2 7 0 . 0 0 0 1122 0
4 2 000 1 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 1 3 0 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 5 3000 7 0 0 . 20 . 1 1 00 . 0 3 9 0 . 0 0 0 0110 0
2 7 0000 0 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 3 8 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 000 4 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 0 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 000 0 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 0 2 3 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
0 0001 1 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 7 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
(continues )Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)450 Appendix
CEREALS (continued ) Serving size
Cereals, oatmeal, regular or quick or 1/2 cup 117 7 3311 32 9 12 88 9 6 6
instant, fortified, plain, cooked with
water, without salt
Cereals, ready-to-eat, 40% Bran Flakes, 2/3 cup 33 106 4 0 26 5 15 5 78 182 191
Ralston Purina (about 1 ounce)
Cereals, ready-to-eat, corn flakes 1 cup 28 102 2 0 24 11931 12 5
(Kellogg’s) (1 ounce)
Cereals, ready-to-eat, rice, puffed, fortified 2 cups 28 113 2 0 25 02972 73 2
(1 ounce)
Cereals, ready-to-eat, wheat, puffed, 2 cups 24 8 7301 91 7 83 58 5 8 3
fortified (about 1 ounce)
CRACKERS
Crackers, crispbread, rye 3 crispbreads or 30 110 2 0 25 5 9 1 23 81 96
crackers
Crackers, matzo, plain 1 matzo (1 ounce) 28 112 3 0 24 14172 53 2
Crackers, melba toast, plain 3 pieces 15 58 2 0 11 1 14 0 9 29 30
Crackers, saltines 6 small crackers 18 78 2 4 13 0 21 1 5 19 23
Crackers, saltines, fat-free, low-sodium 6 small saltines 30 118 3 0 25 17283 43 4
Crackers, wheat, regular 6 small thin 12 57 1 2806072 62 2
square crackers
Crackers, whole-wheat 6 small crackers 24 106 2 4 16 2 12 1 24 71 71
FLOUR
Buckwheat flour, whole-groat 1 cup 120 402 15 4 85 12 49 5 301 404 692
Corn flour, masa, enriched, yellow 1 cup 114 416 11 4 87 0 161 8 125 254 340
Cornmeal, whole-grain, yellow 1 cup 122 442 10 4 94 9 7 4 155 294 350
Peanut flour, defatted 1 cup 60 196 31 0 21 9 84 1 222 456 774
Potato flour 1 cup 160 571 11 1 133 9 104 2 104 269 1,602
Rice flour, white 1 cup 158 578 9 2 127 4 16 1 55 155 120
Rye flour, medium 1 cup 102 361 10 2 79 15 24 2 77 211 347
Semolina (wheat), enriched 1 cup 167 601 21 2 122 7 28 7 78 227 311
Soy flour, defatted 1 cup 100 329 47 1 38 18 241 9 290 674 2,384
Wheat flour, durum 1 cup 192 651 26 5 137 (-) 65 7 276 975 827
Wheat flour, white, all-purpose, enriched, 1 cup 125 455 13 1 95 3 19 6 28 135 134
bleached
Wheat flour, white, all-purpose, self- 1 cup 125 442 12 1 93 3 422 6 24 745 155
rising, enriched
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)GRAINS (INCLUDING BREADS , CEREALS , FLOUR ,ANDPASTA)(continued )Nutrients in Foods 451
1 101 9 0 0 . 10 . 0 0 00 . 0 5 0 . 0 1 9 2 0000 0
304 1 0 1 (-) 17 0.4 0.5 6 0 0.1 115 2.0 1,440 43 20000 0
2 9 8000 1 1 40 . 40 . 4 5 00 . 5 9 9 0 . 07 0 0 2 1 00000 0
1 000 3 0 0 . 70 . 51 000 . 0 5 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 1002 9 0 0 . 60 . 4 8 00 . 0 8 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
7 9 1011 1 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 0 9 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 0001 0 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 3 3 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 2 4000 5 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 0 1 9 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
2 3 4000 2 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 2 2 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 9 1000 6 0 0 . 10 . 2 2 00 . 0 3 7 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
9 5 000 1 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 0 5 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 5 8000 3 0 0 . 00 . 0 1 00 . 0 7 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 3 412 7 0 0 . 50 . 2 7 10 . 7 6 5 0 . 0 0 0 1111 0
6 201 0 0 1 . 60 . 91 110 . 42 1 30 . 05 3 5 5 4 0112 0
4 3 2011 9 0 0 . 50 . 2 4 10 . 4 3 1 0 . 05 7 2 5 7 1112 0
1 0 8313 4 0 0 . 40 . 31 620 . 31 4 90 . 0 0 0 0000 0
8 8 101 2 6 0 . 40 . 1 6 11 . 2 4 0 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
0 1022 4 0 0 . 20 . 0 4 10 . 7 6 0 . 0 0 0 0111 0
3 2063 6 0 0 . 30 . 1 2 10 . 3 1 9 0 . 0 0 0 1001 0
2 201 0 0 1 . 41 . 01 010 . 22 5 70 . 0 0 0 0001 0
2 0 243 2 0 0 . 70 . 3 3 20 . 63 0 50 . 0 4 0 4 0001 0
4 816 1 7 20 0 . 80 . 21 321 . 0 8 3 0 . 0 0 0 0112 0
3 1014 2 0 1 . 00 . 6 7 10 . 11 9 30 . 0 0 0 0001 0
1,587 1 0 1 43 0 1.0 0.5 7 0 0.0 192 0.0 0 0 0001 0
(continues )Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)FLOUR (continued ) Serving size
Wheat flour, white, cake, enriched 1 cup 137 496 11 1 107 2 19 10 22 116 144
Wheat flour, whole-grain 1 cup 120 407 16 2 87 15 41 5 166 415 486
GRAINS
Amaranth 1/2 cup 98 365 14 6 65 15 149 7 259 444 357
Barley, pearled, cooked 1/2 cup 79 9 7202 23 9 11 74 2 7 3
Buckwheat groats, roasted, cooked 1/2 cup 84 7 7311 72 6 14 35 9 7 4
Bulgur (wheat) 1/2 cup 91 7 6301 74 9 12 93 6 6 2
Hominy, canned, white (corn) 1/2 cup 83 5 9111 22 8 11 32 9 7
Millet, cooked 1/2 cup 87 104 3 1 21 1 3 1 38 87 54
Flax seed 1/2 cup 77 381 15 26 26 22 154 5 280 386 528
Popcorn, air-popped 2 cups 16 6 1211 22 2 02 14 8 4 8
Quinoa 1/2 cup 85 318 11 5 59 5 51 8 179 349 629
Rice bran, crude 1/2 cup 59 186 8 12 29 12 34 11 461 989 876
Rice, brown, long-grain, cooked 1/2 cup 98 108 3 1 22 2 10 0 42 81 42
Rice, white, long-grain, regular, cooked 1/2 cup 79 103 2 0 22 0 8 1 9 34 28
Rye 1/2 cup 85 283 12 2 59 12 28 2 102 316 223
Sorghum 1/2 cup 96 325 11 3 72 0 27 4 0 276 336
Triticale 1/2 cup 96 323 13 2 69 0 36 2 125 344 319
Wheat bran, crude 1/2 cup 29 6 3511 9 1 2 2 13 1 7 7 2 9 4 3 4 3
Wild rice, cooked 1/2 cup 82 8 3301 71 2 02 66 7 8 3
PASTA
Couscous, cooked 1/2 cup 79 8 8301 8 16061 74 6
Macaroni, cooked, enriched 1/2 cup 70 9 9302 01 5 11 33 8 2 2
Noodles, egg, cooked, enriched 1/2 cup 80 106 4 1 20 1 10 1 15 55 22
Noodles, Japanese, soba, cooked 1/2 cup 57 5 6301 2 02051 42 0
Noodles, Japanese, somen, cooked 1/2 cup 88 115 4 0 24 0 7 0 2 24 26
Pasta, fresh-refrigerated, plain, cooked 1/2 cup 70 9 2411 70 4 11 34 4 1 7
Spaghetti, cooked, enriched, without 1/2 cup 70 9 9302 01 5 11 33 8 2 2
added salt
Spaghetti, whole-wheat, cooked 1/2 cup 70 8 7401 931 112 16 2 3 1452 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)GRAINS (INCLUDING BREADS , CEREALS , FLOUR ,ANDPASTA)(continued )3 101 7 0 1 . 00 . 6 9 10 . 02 1 10 . 0 0 0 0001 0
6 4058 5 0 0 . 50 . 3 8 10 . 4 5 3 0 . 0 0 0 1001 0
2 0 312 0 4 0 . 10 . 2 1 10 . 2 4 8 0 . 0 0 0 1213 0
2 100 7 0 0 . 10 . 0 2 00 . 1 1 3 0 . 0 5 1 0000 0
3 100 2 0 0 . 00 . 0 1 00 . 1 1 2 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
5 101 1 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 1 1 6 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 7 3100 2 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 0 1 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
2 100 1 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 1 1 7 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
26 3 1 2 4 1 0.1 0.1 1 1 0.7 215 0.0 0 0 4 2 5 19 0
1 000 2 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 0 4 0 . 0 3 1 3 0001 0
1 8 312 0 0 0 . 20 . 3 2 10 . 2 4 2 0 . 0 0 0 0012 0
3 408 9 0 1 . 60 . 22 042 . 4 3 7 0 . 0 0 0 4244 0
5 1011 0 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 1 4 0 . 0 0 0 1000 0
1 000 6 0 0 . 10 . 0 1 00 . 1 4 6 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
5 3023 0 0 0 . 30 . 2 4 10 . 2 5 1 0 . 0 0 0 2001 0
6 000 0 0 0 . 20 . 1 3 00 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 0011 0
5 303 0 0 0 . 40 . 1 1 10 . 1 7 0 0 . 0 0 0 1001 0
1 2032 3 0 0 . 20 . 2 4 10 . 4 2 3 0 . 0 0 0 1001 0
2 100 1 0 0 . 00 . 1 1 00 . 1 2 1 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
4 0002 2 0 0 . 00 . 0 1 00 . 0 1 2 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 0001 5 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 4 9 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
6 0001 7 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 5 1 0 . 1 1 6 5 00002 6
3 4 000 0 0 0 . 10 . 0 0 00 . 0 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
1 4 2000 0 0 0 . 00 . 0 0 00 . 0 2 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
4 000 0 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 4 5 0 . 1 1 4 4 00002 3
1 0001 5 0 0 . 10 . 1 1 00 . 0 4 9 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0
2 1011 8 0 0 . 10 . 0 0 00 . 1 4 0 . 0 0 0 0000 0Nutrients in Foods 453Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS
MEAT Serving Size
Beef
Chuck, arm pot roast, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, 3 oz 85 296 23 22 0 9 3 16 184 207
choice, braised
Cured, corned brisket, cooked 3 oz 85 213 15 16 0 7 2 10 106 123
Flank, trimmed to 0 ″fat, choice, braised 3 oz 85 224 23 14 0 5 3 20 218 286
Ground, extra lean, baked, medium 3 oz 85 213 21 14 0 6 2 14 105 190
Ground, regular, baked, medium 3 oz 85 244 20 18 0 9 2 13 116 188
Rib, eye, small end (ribs 10-12), trimmed 3 oz 85 261 21 19 0 11 2 20 156 292
to 1/4 ″fat, choice, broiled
Rib, shortribs, choice, braised 3 oz 85 400 18 36 0 10 2 13 138 190
Rib, whole (ribs 6-12), t rimmed to 1/4 ″fat, 3 oz 85 306 19 25 0 10 2 16 149 262
choice, broiled
Round, bottom round, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, 3 oz 85 241 24 15 0 5 3 19 208 240
choice, braised
Round, eye of round, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, 3 oz 85 205 23 12 0 5 2 20 175 305
choice, roasted
Round, full cut, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, 3 oz 85 204 23 12 0 5 2 21 202 333
broiled
Round, top round, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, 3 oz 85 190 26 9 0 6 2 25 199 356
choice, broiled
Short loin, porterhouse steak, separable 3 oz 85 183 22 10 0 6 3 23 179 312
lean only, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, 
broiled
Short loin, T-bone steak, trimmed to 1/4 ″ 3 oz 85 263 20 20 0 7 2 20 156 273
fat,choice, broiled
Tenderloin, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, 3 oz 85 258 21 19 0 7 3 22 178 310
broiled
Top sirloin, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, 3 oz 85 229 23 14 0 9 3 24 187 309
broiled
Lamb
Ground, broiled 3 oz 85 241 21 17 0 19 2 20 171 288
Leg, shank half, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, 3 oz 85 191 22 11 0 9 2 21 168 277
roasted
Loin, trimmed to 1/4 ″fat, choice, broiled 3 oz 85 269 21 20 0 17 2 20 167 278
Shoulder, whole (arm and blade), trimmed 3 oz 85 292 24 21 0 21 2 20 158 211
to 1/4 ″fat, choice, braised
Ostrich
Top loin, cooked 3 oz 85 130 24 3 0 5 3 (-) (-) (-)454 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)50 6 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.2 8 2.5 0 0 0 9 9 1 84
964 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 3 0 0.2 5 1.4 0 0 0 5 8 1 83
60 5 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 4 0 0.3 8 2.8 0 0 (-) 6 6 0 61
42 5 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.2 4 0 0.2 8 1.5 0 0 (-) 5 6 1 70
51 4 0 0 16 0 0.0 0.1 4 0 0.2 8 2.0 0 0 (-) 7 8 1 74
54 5 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 4 0 0.3 6 2.6 0 0 (-) 8 8 1 71
43 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 2 0 0.2 4 2.2 0 0 0 15 16 1 8053 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.1 3 0 0.2 5 2.4 0 0 (-) 10 11 1 70
43 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.3 9 2.0 0 0 0 6 7 1 82
50 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.1 3 0 0.3 5 1.8 0 0 (-) 5 5 0 61
52 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.3 8 2.6 0 0 0 4 5 0 68
51 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 0 0.5 9 2.1 0 0 (-) 3 4 0 72
59 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 4 0 0.3 7 1.9 0 0 0 3 4 0 59
54 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.3 6 1.8 0 0 0 8 9 1 57
50 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.3 5 2.0 0 0 (-) 7 8 1 73
53 5 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 0 0.3 8 2.3 0 0 0 6 6 1 77
69 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 6 1 0.1 16 2.2 0 0 0 7 7 1 8255 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 6 1 0.1 19 2.3 0 0 0 4 4 1 77
65 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 6 1 0.1 15 2.1 0 0 0 8 8 1 8564 5 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 1 0.1 14 2.4 0 0 0 9 9 2 99
65 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 1 1 1 79Nutrients in Foods 455Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )Serving Size
Pork
Backribs, roasted 3 oz 85 315 21 25 0 38 1 18 166 268
Bacon, cooked:  broiled, pan-fried, or 3 strips 19 109 6 9 0 2 0 5 64 93
roasted
Canadian-style bacon, grilled 3 oz 70 129 17 6 1 7 1 15 206 271
Feet, cured, pickled 3 oz 85 173 11 14 0 27 0 3 29 260
Ground, cooked 3 oz 85 252 22 18 0 19 1 20 192 308
Ham, boneless, regular (approximately 3 oz 85 151 19 8 0 7 1 19 239 348
11% fat), roasted
Leg (ham), whole, roasted 3 oz 85 232 23 15 0 12 1 19 224 299
Loin, center rib (chops), bone-in, braised 3 oz 85 213 23 13 0 21 1 15 150 329
Loin, sirloin (chops), bone-in, braised 3 oz 85 208 22 13 0 15 1 16 148 276
Loin, tenderloin, broiled 3 oz 85 171 25 7 0 4 1 30 247 377
Loin, whole, braised 3 oz 85 203 23 12 0 18 1 16 154 318
Veal
Ground, broiled 3 oz 85 146 21 6 0 14 1 20 184 286
Leg (top round), roasted 3 oz 85 136 24 4 0 5 1 24 199 331
Loin, roasted 3 oz 85 184 21 10 0 16 1 21 180 276
Rib, roasted 3 oz 85 194 20 12 0 9 1 19 167 251
Sirloin, roasted 3 oz 85 172 21 9 0 11 1 22 190 298
Variety meats
Brain, simmered 3 oz 85 136 9 11 0 8 2 12 299 204
Heart (beef), simmered 3 oz 85 149 24 5 0 5 6 21 212 198
Kidney (beef), cooked 3 oz 85 122 22 3 1 14 6 15 260 152
Liver (beef), braised 3 oz 85 137 21 4 3 6 6 17 343 200
Pancreas, braised 3 oz 85 230 23 15 0 14 2 18 385 209
Thymus, braised 3 oz 85 271 19 21 0 9 1 9 309 368
Sausages/luncheon/deli meats
Beef, lunch meat, thin sliced 3 oz 85 150 24 3 5 9 2 16 143 365
Bologna, beef and pork 3 oz 85 269 10 24 2 10 1 9 77 153
Bratwurst, pork 3 oz 85 256 12 22 2 37 1 13 127 180
Frankfurter, beef 1 frankfurter (5 ″) 45 142 5 13 1 9 1 1 39 75
Frankfurter, turkey 1 frankfurter 45 102 6 8 1 48 1 6 60 81
Italian sausage, pork 1 link, 4/lb 83 268 17 21 1 20 1 15 141 252456 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )86 3 0 0 33 0 0.4 0.2 3 0 0.3 3 0.5 8 3 (-) 9 11 2 100
303 1 0 0 5 0 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 1 0.3 0 0 0 3 5 1 16
1,074 1 0 0 17 0 0.6 0.1 5 0 0.3 3 0.5 0 0 0 2 3 1 40
785 1 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0.3 3 0 0 0 0 5 6 1 78
62 3 0 0 30 1 0.6 0.2 4 0 0.3 5 0.5 7 2 0 7 8 2 80
1,275 2 0 0 17 0 0.6 0.3 5 1 0.3 3 0.6 0 0 0 3 4 1 50
51 3 0 0 39 0 0.5 0.3 4 1 0.3 9 0.6 9 3 0 5 7 1 80
34 2 0 0 35 0 0.5 0.2 4 0 0.3 2 0.5 6 2 (-) 5 6 1 62
43 2 0 0 34 1 0.6 0.2 3 1 0.3 3 0.5 6 2 (-) 5 6 1 70
54 2 0 0 41 1 0.8 0.3 4 1 0.4 5 0.8 6 2 (-) 2 3 1 80
41 2 0 0 39 1 0.5 0.2 4 1 0.3 3 0.5 6 2 0 4 5 1 68
71 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 7 1 0.3 9 1.1 0 0 0 3 2 0 88
58 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.3 8 1 0.3 14 1.0 0 0 0 2 1 0 88
79 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.2 8 1 0.3 13 1.1 0 0 0 4 4 1 88
78 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.2 6 1 0.2 11 1.2 0 0 0 5 5 1 94
71 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.3 8 1 0.3 13 1.2 0 0 0 4 3 1 87
102 1 0 0 (-) 1 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.2 6 7.3 0 0 2 2 2 1 1,746
53 3 1 0 33 1 0.1 0.3 3 1 0.2 2 12 0 0 1 1 1 1 164
114 4 1 0 239 1 0.2 3.4 5 1 0.4 83 44 1,055 317 0 1 1 1 329
60 5 4 0 (-) 20 0.2 3.5 9 4 0.8 184 60.4 30,327 9,012 (-) 2 1 1 331
51 4 0 0 (-) 17 0.2 0.4 3 4 0.2 3 14.1 0 0 (-) 5 5 3 223
99 2 0 0 (-) 26 0.1 0.2 2 2 0.1 1 1.3 0 0 (-) 7 7 4 250
1,224 3 0 0 24 0 0.1 0.2 4 0 0.3 9 2 0 0 0 1 1 0 35
867 2 0 0 10 0 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.2 4 1.1 0 0 0 9 11 2 47
474 2 0 0 18 1 0.4 0.2 3 0 0.2 2 0.8 0 0 0 8 10 2 51
462 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.0 1 0 0.1 2 0.7 0 0 0 5 6 1 27
642 1 0 0 7 0 0.0 0.1 2 0 0.1 4 0.1 0 0 0 3 3 2 48
765 2 0 0 18 2 0.5 0.2 3 0 0.3 4 1.1 0 0 0 8 10 3 65Nutrients in Foods 457Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )Serving Size
Sausages/luncheon/deli meats 
(continued )
Luncheon meat, jellied, beef 3 oz 85 94 16 3 0 9 3 15 118 342
Mortadella, pork 3 oz 85 265 14 22 3 15 1 9 83 139
Pastrami, beef 3 oz 85 297 15 25 3 8 2 15 128 194
Pastrami, turkey 3 oz 85 120 16 5 1 8 1 12 170 221
Pepperoni, pork, beef 3 oz 85 422 18 37 2 8 1 14 101 295
Pork, lunch meat, thin sliced 3 oz 85 300 11 27 2 8 1 12 73 172
Pork sausage, fresh, cooked 3 oz 85 314 17 27 1 27 1 14 156 307
Salami, beef 3 oz 85 223 13 18 2 8 2 12 96 191
Turkey roll, light meat 3 oz 85 125 16 6 0 34 1 14 156 213
Game meats
Antelope, roasted 3 oz 85 128 25 2 0 3 4 24 179 316
Bear, simmered 3 oz 85 220 28 11 0 4 9 20 145 224
Beaver, roasted 3 oz 85 180 30 6 0 19 9 25 248 343
Beefalo, roasted 3 oz 85 160 26 5 0 20 3 0 213 390
Bison, roasted 3 oz 85 122 24 2 0 7 3 22 178 307
Boar, wild, roasted 3 oz 85 136 24 4 0 14 1 23 114 337
Buffalo, water, roasted 3 oz 85 111 23 2 0 13 2 28 187 266
Caribou, roasted 3 oz 85 142 25 4 0 19 5 23 198 264
Deer, roasted 3 oz 85 134 26 3 0 6 4 20 192 285
Elk, roasted 3 oz 85 124 26 2 0 4 3 20 153 279
Goat, roasted 3 oz 85 122 23 3 0 14 3 0 171 344
Hare, stewed 3 oz 85 147 28 3 0 15 4 26 204 291
Moose, roasted 3 oz 85 114 25 1 0 5 4 20 150 284
Muskrat, roasted 3 oz 85 199 26 10 0 31 6 22 230 272
Opossum, roasted 3 oz 85 188 26 9 0 14 4 29 236 372
Rabbit, domesticated, roasted 3 oz 85 167 25 7 0 16 2 18 224 326
Raccoon, roasted 3 oz 85 217 25 12 0 12 6 26 222 338
Squirrel, roasted 3 oz 85 147 26 4 0 3 6 24 179 299
POULTRY
Chicken
Broilers or fryers, breast, meat and skin, 3 oz 85 168 25 7 0 12 1 23 182 209
roasted
Broilers or fryers, breast, meat only, 3 oz 85 141 27 3 0 13 1 25 196 220
roasted458 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )1,124 3 0 0 14 0 0.1 0.2 4 1 0.2 6 4.4 0 0 (-) 1 1 0 29
1,060 2 0 0 19 0 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.1 3 1.3 0 0 0 8 10 3 48
1,044 4 0 0 9 0 0.1 0.1 4 0 0.2 6 1.5 0 0 0 9 12 1 79
890 2 0 0 14 0 0.0 0.2 3 0 0.2 4 0.2 0 0 0 2 2 1 46
1,733 2 0 0 20 0 0.3 0.2 4 2 0.2 3 2.1 0 0 0 14 18 4 67
1,100 1 0 0 24 0 0.3 0.1 2 0 0.2 5 1 0 0 0 10 13 3 47
1,101 2 0 0 15 2 0.6 0.2 4 1 0.3 2 1.5 0 0 0 9 12 3 71
1,000 2 0 0 12 0 0.1 0.2 3 1 0.2 2 2.6 0 0 0 8 8 1 55
416 1 0 0 19 0 0.1 0.2 6 0 0.3 3 0.2 0 0 0 2 2 1 37
46 1 0 0 (-) 0 0.2 0.6 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 0 0 (-) 1 1 0 107
60 9 0 (-) (-) 0 0.1 0.7 3 (-) 0.2 5 2.1 0 0 0 3 5 2 83
50 2 0 (-) (-) 3 0.0 0.3 2 1 0.4 9 7.1 0 0 1 2 2 1 99
70 5 (-) (-) (-) 8 0.0 0.1 4 0 (-) 15 2.2 0 0 (-) 2 2 0 49
48 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 (-) 0.3 7 2.4 0 0 0 1 1 0 70
51 3 0 (-) (-) 0 0.3 0.1 4 (-) 0.4 5 0.6 0 0 0 1 1 1 65
48 2 0 (-) (-) 0 0.0 0.2 5 0 0.4 8 1.5 0 0 (-) 1 0 0 52
51 4 0 0 (-) 3 0.2 0.8 5 2 0.3 4 5.6 0 0 0 1 1 1 93
46 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.2 0.5 6 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0 0 (-) 1 1 1 95
52 3 0 0 (-) 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 0 0 (-) 1 0 0 62
73 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.5 3 (-) 0.0 4 1.0 0 0 0 1 1 0 64
38 2 0 13 0 0 0.0 0.1 5 (-) 0.3 7 5 0 0 1 1 1 1 104
59 3 0 0 (-) 4 0.0 0.3 4 (-) 0.3 3 5.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 66
81 2 0 0 (-) 6 0.1 0.6 6 1 0.4 9 7.1 0 0 (-) 0 0 0 103
49 2 0 (-) (-) 0 0.1 0.3 7 (-) 0.4 9 7.1 0 0 1 1 3 3 110
40 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 7 1 0.4 9 7.1 0 0 (-) 2 2 1 70
67 2 0 (-) (-) 0 0.5 0.4 4 (-) 0.4 9 7.1 0 0 1 3 4 2 82
101 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 4 1 0.3 8 5.5 0 0 1 1 1 1 103
61 1 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.1 11 1 0.5 3 0.3 79 23 0 2 3 1 72
64 1 0 0 24 0 0.0 0.1 12 1 0.5 3 0.3 18 5 0 1 1 1 73Nutrients in Foods 459Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )Serving Size
Chicken (continued )
Broilers or fryers, dark meat, meat and 3 oz 85 215 22 13 0 13 1 19 143 187
skin, roasted
Broilers or fryers, dark meat, meat only, 3 oz 85 174 23 8 0 13 1 21 166 206
roasted
Broilers or fryers, drumstick, meat and 3 oz 85 183 23 9 0 10 1 19 148 194
skin, roasted
Broilers or fryers, meat only, roasted 3 oz 85 161 25 6 0 13 1 21 166 206Broilers or fryers, thigh, meat and skin, 3 oz 85 210 21 13 0 10 1 19 148 189
roasted
Broilers or fryers, wing, meat and skin, 3 oz 85 246 23 17 0 13 1 16 128 156
roasted
Cornish game hens, meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 221 19 16 0 11 1 15 124 209
Liver, simmered 3 oz 85 133 21 5 1 12 7 18 265 119
Pâté, chicken liver, canned 3 oz 85 171 11 11 6 9 8 11 149 81
Turkey
Breast, meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 161 24 6 0 18 1 23 179 245
Breast, meat only, roasted 3 oz 85 93 19 1 0 6 0 17 195 263
Dark meat, roasted 3 oz 85 159 24 6 0 27 2 20 173 246
Ground, cooked 3 oz 85 200 23 11 0 21 2 20 167 229
Leg, meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 177 24 8 0 27 2 20 169 238
Thigh, pre-basted, meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 133 16 7 0 7 1 14 145 205
Wing, meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 195 23 11 0 20 1 21 167 226
Duck
Meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 286 16 24 0 9 2 14 133 173
Meat only, roasted 3 oz 85 171 20 10 0 10 2 17 173 214
Goose
Meat and skin, roasted 3 oz 85 259 21 19 0 11 2 19 229 280
Meat only, roasted 3 oz 85 202 25 11 0 12 2 21 263 330Pâté de foie gras, canned (goose liver 3 oz 85 393 10 37 4 60 5 11 170 117
pâté), smoked
EGGS
Egg substitute, liquid 1/2 cup 126 105 15 4 1 67 3 11 152 414
Egg, white, raw 2 large whites 67 33 7 0 1 4 0 7 9 95
Egg, whole, raw, fresh 1 large egg 50 75 6 5 1 25 1 5 89 61
Egg. yolk, raw 1 large yolk 17 59 3 6 0 23 1 1 81 16460 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )74 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 1 0.3 6 0.2 171 49 (-) 4 5 3 78
79 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 6 1 0.3 7 0.3 61 19 0 2 3 2 79
76 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 1 0.3 7 0.3 85 25 0 3 4 2 77
73 2 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 8 1 0.4 5 0.3 45 14 0 2 2 2 1 76
71 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 1 0.3 6 0.2 140 41 0 4 5 3 79
70 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 6 1 0.4 3 0.2 134 40 0 5 6 4 71
54 1 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 5 1 0.3 2 0.2 90 27 0 4 7 3 112
43 4 0 0 (-) 13 0.1 1.5 4 5 0.5 655 16.5 13,919 4,176 1 2 1 1 536
328 2 0 0 39 9 0.0 1.2 6 2 0.2 273 6.9 616 185 1 3 4 2 333
54 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 5 1 0.4 5 0.3 0 0 (-) 2 2 2 63
1,216 1 0 0 26 0 0.0 0.1 7 0 0.3 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 35
67 4 0 0 35 0 0.1 0.2 3 1 0.3 8 0.3 0 0 1 2 1 2 72
91 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 4 1 0.3 6 0.3 0 0 0 3 4 3 87
65 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 3 1 0.3 8 0.3 0 0 0 3 2 2 72
371 4 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 2 1 0.2 5 0.2 0 0 (-) 2 2 2 53
52 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.1 5 0 0.4 5 0.3 0 0 0 3 4 3 69
50 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.2 4 1 0.2 5 0.3 178 54 1 8 11 3 71
55 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.2 0.4 4 1 0.2 9 0.3 65 20 1 4 3 1 76
59 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.3 4 1 0.3 2 0.3 59 18 1 6 9 2 77
65 3 0 0 (-) 0 0.1 0.3 3 2 0.4 10 0.4 34 10 (-) 4 4 1 82
593 1 0 0 (-) 2 0.1 0.3 2 1 0.1 51 8.0 2,835 851 (-) 12 22 1 128
222 2 0 0 31 0 0.1 0.4 0 3 0.0 19 0.4 2,711 271 1 1 1 2 1
109 0 0 0 12 0 0.0 0.3 0 0 0.0 2 0.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
63 1 0 0 15 0 0.0 0.3 0 1 0.1 24 0.5 318 96 1 2 2 1 213
7 1 0 0 7 0 0.0 0.1 0 1 0.1 24 0.5 323 97 1 2 0 1 213Nutrients in Foods 461Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )FINFISH AND SHELLFISH Serving Size
Finfish (lean)
Bass, sea, mixed species, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 105 20 2 0 11 0 45 211 279
Cod, Atlantic, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 89 19 1 0 12 0 36 117 207
Flounder (and sole species), cooked, 3 oz 85 99 21 1 0 15 0 49 246 292
dry heat
Halibut, Atlantic and Pacific, cooked, 3 oz 85 119 23 2 0 51 1 91 242 490
dry heat
Ocean perch, Atlantic, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 103 20 2 0 116 1 33 235 298
Perch, mixed species, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 99 21 1 0 87 1 32 218 292
Pike, northern, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 96 21 1 0 62 1 34 240 281
Roughy, orange, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 76 16 1 0 32 0 32 218 327
Snapper, mixed species, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 109 22 1 0 34 0 31 171 444Tuna, light, canned in water, without salt, 3 oz 85 99 22 1 0 9 1 23 139 201
drained solids
Finfish (moderate fat)
Bass, freshwater, mixed species, cooked, 3 oz 85 124 21 4 0 88 2 32 218 388
dry heat
Catfish, channel, wild, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 93 15 3 0 8 0 24 260 356
Salmon, chinook, smoked (lox), regular 3 oz 85 99 16 4 0 9 1 15 139 149
Salmon, coho, wild, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 156 23 6 0 39 1 30 253 387
Salmon, pink, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 127 22 4 0 14 1 28 251 352
Salmon, sockeye, canned, drained solids 3 oz 85 130 17 6 0 203 1 25 277 320
with bone
Swordfish, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 132 22 4 0 5 1 29 286 314
Trout, rainbow, wild, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 128 19 5 0 73 0 26 229 381
Tuna, fresh, bluefin, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 156 25 5 0 9 1 54 277 275Tuna, light, canned in oil, without salt, 3 oz 85 168 25 7 0 11 1 26 264 176
drained solids
Finfish (high fat)
Mackerel, Atlantic, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 223 20 15 0 13 1 82 236 341
Salmon, Atlantic, wild, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 155 22 7 0 13 1 31 218 534
Salmon, chinook, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 196 22 11 0 24 1 104 315 429
Salmon, sockeye, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 184 23 9 0 6 0 26 235 319
Sardine, Atlantic, canned in oil, drained 3 oz 85 177 21 10 0 325 2 33 417 338
solids with bone
Smelt, rainbow, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 105 19 3 0 65 1 32 251 316
Trout, mixed species, cooked, dry heat 3 oz 85 162 23 7 0 47 2 24 267 394462 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )74 0 0 0 40 0 0.1 0.1 2 1 0.4 5 0.3 181 54 (-) 1 0 1 45
66 0 0 0 32 1 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.2 7 0.9 39 12 0 0 0 0 47
89 1 0 0 49 0 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.2 8 2.1 32 9 2 0 0 1 58
59 0 0 0 40 0 0.1 0.1 6 0 0.3 12 1.2 152 46 1 0 1 1 35
82 1 0 0 47 1 0.1 0.1 2 0 0.2 9 1.0 39 12 (-) 0 1 0 46
67 1 0 1 14 1 0.1 0.1 2 1 0.1 5 1.9 27 9 (-) 0 0 0 98
42 1 0 0 14 3 0.1 0.1 2 1 0.1 15 2.0 69 20 (-) 0 0 0 43
69 1 0 0 40 0 0.1 0.2 3 1 0.3 7 2.0 69 20 (-) 0 1 0 22
48 0 0 0 42 1 0.0 0.0 0 1 0.4 5 3.0 98 30 (-) 0 0 1 40
43 1 0 0 68 0 0.0 0.1 11 0 0.3 3 2.5 48 14 0 0 0 0 26
77 1 0 1 14 2 0.1 0.1 1 1 0.1 14 1.9 98 30 (-) 1 2 1 74
42 0 0 0 12 1 0.1 0.0 2 1 0.0 9 2.4 42 13 (-) 1 1 1 62
1,700 0 0 0 32 0 0.0 0.1 4 1 0.2 2 2.8 75 22 (-) 1 2 1 20
45 0 0 0 39 1 0.1 0.1 7 1 0.5 8 3.8 92 27 (-) 1 2 2 48
73 1 0 0 49 0 0.2 0.1 7 1 0.2 4 2.9 116 35 (-) 1 1 1 57
457 1 0 0 30 0 0.0 0.2 5 0 0.3 8 0.3 150 45 1 1 3 2 37
98 1 0 0 52 1 0.0 0.1 10 0 0.3 2 1.7 116 35 (-) 1 2 1 43
48 0 0 0 11 2 0.1 0.1 5 1 0.3 16 5.4 43 13 (-) 1 1 2 59
43 1 0 0 40 0 0.2 0.3 9 1 0.4 2 9.2 2,142 643 (-) 1 2 2 4243 1 0 0 65 0 0.0 0.1 11 0 0.1 5 1.9 66 20 (-) 1 3 2 15
71 1 0 0 44 0 0.1 0.4 6 1 0.4 1 16.2 153 46 (-) 4 6 4 64
48 1 0 0 40 0 0.2 0.4 9 2 0.8 25 2.6 37 11 (-) 1 2 3 60
51 0 0 0 40 3 0.0 0.1 9 1 0.4 30 2.4 422 127 (-) 3 5 2 72
56 0 0 0 32 0 0.2 0.1 6 1 0.2 4 4.9 178 54 (-) 2 4 2 74
430 1 0 0 45 0 0.1 0.2 4 1 0.1 10 7.6 191 57 0 1 3 4 121
65 2 0 1 40 0 0.0 0.1 2 1 0.1 4 3.4 49 14 (-) 0 1 1 77
57 1 0 1 14 0 0.4 0.4 5 2 0.2 13 6.3 54 16 (-) 1 4 2 63Nutrients in Foods 463Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )Serving Size
Shellfish
Abalone, mixed species, cooked, fried 3 oz 85 161 17 6 9 31 3 48 184 241
Clams, breaded and fried 3 oz 85 333 9 20 29 15 2 23 176 196
Crab, Alaska king, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 82 16 1 0 50 1 54 238 223
Crab, blue, canned 1/3 cup 45 44 9 0 0 45 0 17 117 168
Crayfish, mixed species, wild, cooked, 3 oz 85 70 14 1 0 51 1 28 230 252
moist heat
Lobster, northern, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 83 17 1 1 52 0 30 157 299
Mussel, blue, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 146 20 4 6 28 6 31 242 228
Octopus, common, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 139 25 2 4 90 8 51 237 536
Oysters, battered or breaded, and fried 3 oz 85 225 8 11 24 17 3 14 120 111
Scallops, breaded and fried 3 oz 85 228 9 11 23 11 1 19 173 173Shrimp, mixed species, breaded and fried 3 oz 85 206 18 10 10 57 1 34 185 191
(about 11 shrimp)
Shrimp, mixed species, canned 1/4 cup 32 38 7 1 0 19 1 13 75 67
Shrimp, mixed species, cooked, moist heat 3 oz 85 84 18 1 0 33 3 29 116 155Spiny lobster, mixed species, cooked, 3 oz 85 122 22 2 3 54 1 43 195 177
moist heat464 Appendix
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )502 1 0 0 44 2 0.2 0.1 2 2 0.1 12 0.6 4 2 (-) 1 2 1 80
616 1 0 0 7 0 0.2 0.2 2 0 0.0 31 0.8 90 27 (-) 5 8 5 65
911 6 1 0 34 6 0.0 0.0 1 0 0.2 43 9.8 25 8 (-) 0 0 0 45
150 2 0 0 14 1 0.0 0.0 1 0 0.1 19 0.2 2 1 0 0 0 0 40
80 1 1 0 31 1 0.0 0.1 2 0 0.1 37 1.8 43 13 1 0 0 0 113
323 2 2 0 36 0 0.0 0.1 1 0 0.1 9 2.6 74 22 1 0 0 0 61
314 2 0 6 76 12 0.3 0.4 3 1 0.1 64 20.4 258 77 (-) 1 1 1 48
391 3 1 0 76 7 0.0 0.1 3 1 0.6 20 30.6 230 69 1 0 0 0 82
414 10 0 0 56 3 0.2 0.2 3 1 0.0 19 0.6 222 66 (-) 3 4 3 66
542 1 0 0 23 0 0.1 0.5 0 0 0.0 31 0.3 82 25 (-) 3 7 0 64292 1 0 0 35 1 0.1 0.1 3 0 0.1 7 1.6 161 48 (-) 2 3 4 150
54 0 0 0 13 1 0.0 0.0 1 0 0.1 1 0.4 19 6 0 0 0 0 55
190 1 0 0 34 2 0.0 0.0 2 0 0.1 3 1.3 186 56 0 0 0 0 166193 6 0 0 50 2 0.0 0.0 4 0 0.1 1 3.4 17 5 (-) 0 0 1 77Nutrients in Foods 465Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )LEGUMES Serving Size
Alfalfa seeds, sprouted, raw 1 cup 33 10 1 0 1 1 11 0 9 23 26
Broad beans (fava beans), mature seeds, 1/2 cup 85 94 6 0 17 5 31 1 37 106 228
cooked, boiled, without salt
Chickpeas (garbanzo beans, Bengal gram), 1/2 cup 82 134 7 2 22 6 40 2 39 138 239
mature seeds, cooked, boiled, without salt
Common beans
Beans, black, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 86 114 8 0 20 7 23 2 60 120 305
boiled, without salt
Beans, cranberry (Roman), mature seeds, 1/2 cup 89 120 8 0 22 9 44 2 44 119 342
cooked, boiled, without salt
Beans, Great Northern, mature, boiled 1/2 cup 88 104 7 0 19 6 60 2 44 146 346Beans, kidney, all types, mature seeds, 1/2 cup 89 112 8 0 20 6 25 3 40 126 357
cooked, boiled, without salt
Beans, navy, mature, boiled, without salt 1/2 cup 91 129 8 0 24 6 64 2 54 143 335Beans, pinto, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 86 117 7 0 22 7 41 2 47 137 400
boiled, without salt
Beans, small white, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 90 127 8 1 23 9 65 3 61 151 414
boiled, without salt
Dolichos beans
Beans, adzuki, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 115 147 9 0 28 0 32 2 60 193 612
boiled, without salt
Black-eyed peas, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 86 100 7 1 17 3 22 3 82 121 321
boiled, without salt
Lablab bean (hyacinth bean), mature, boiled 1/2 cup 97 113 8 1 20 (-) 39 4 79 116 327
Mung beans, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 101 106 7 0 19 8 27 1 48 100 269
boiled, without salt
Mung beans, mature seeds, sprouted, 1/2 cup 62 1 3103 0 709 1 76 3
cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Mung beans, mature seeds, sprouted, raw 1 cup 104 3 1306 2 1 4 1 2 25 6 1 5 5
Other lentils & legumes
Lentils, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, 1/2 cup 99 115 9 0 20 8 19 3 36 178 365
without salt
Lima beans, large, mature seeds, cooked, 1/2 cup 94 108 7 0 20 7 16 2 40 104 478
boiled, without salt
Peanuts, all types, raw 1/3 cup 48 273 12 24 8 4 44 2 81 181 340Peanuts, all types, oil-roasted, with salt 1/3 cup 48 276 13 23 9 4 42 1 88 246 324
(halves and whole)
Peanuts, all types, cooked, boiled, with 1/3 cup 59 189 8 13 13 5 33 1 61 118 107
salt (shelled)466 Appendix
Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )2 0 0 0 0 3 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 12 0.0 51 5 0 0 0 0 0
4 1 0 0 2 0 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 88 0.0 13 2 0 0 0 0 0
6 1 0 1 3 1 0.1 0.1 0 0 0.1 141 0.0 22 2 0 0 0 1 0
1 1 0 0 1 0 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.1 128 0.0 5 1 0 0 0 0 0
1 1 0 0 1 0 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.1 183 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 4 1 0.1 0.0 1 0 0.1 90 0.0 2 0 (-) 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 1 1 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 115 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 1 0 0 5 1 0.2 0.0 0 0 0.1 127 0.0 2 0 (-) 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 6 2 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.1 147 0.0 2 0 1 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 1 0 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.1 123 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9 2 0 1 1 0 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 139 0.0 7 1 0 0 0 0 0
16 2 0 0 2 0 0.1 0.0 1 0 0.1 121 0.0 9 1 0 0 0 0 0
7 3 0 0 3 0 0.3 0.0 0 0 0.0 4 0.0 0 0 (-) 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 3 1 0.2 0.1 1 0 0.1 160 0.0 24 2 1 0 0 0 0
6 0 0 0 0 7 0.0 0.1 1 0 0.0 18 0.0 9 1 0 0 0 0 0
6 0 0 0 1 14 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 63 0.0 22 2 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 3 1 0.2 0.1 1 1 0.2 179 0.0 8 1 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 4 0 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.2 78 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
9 2 1 1 3 0 0.3 0.1 6 1 0.2 116 0.0 0 0 4 3 12 7 0
206 3 1 1 4 0 0.1 0.1 7 1 0.1 60 0.0 0 0 4 3 12 7 0
446 1 0 1 3 0 0.2 0.0 3 0 0.1 44 0.0 0 0 2 2 6 4 0Nutrients in Foods 467Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )Serving Size
Other lentils & legumes (continued )
Peanut butter, chunk style, with salt 2 Tblsp 32 188 8 16 7 2 13 1 51 101 239
Peanut butter, smooth style, with salt 2 Tblsp 32 190 8 16 6 2 12 1 51 118 214
Peas, edible-podded, boiled without salt 1/2 cup 80 3 4306 2 3 4 2 2 14 4 1 9 2
Peas, green, cooked without salt 1/2 cup 80 67 4 0 12 4 22 1 31 94 217
Peas, split, mature, boiled without salt 1/2 cup 98 116 8 0 21 8 14 1 35 97 355
Soybeans, mature, cooked, boiled, without salt 1/2 cup 86 149 14 8 9 5 88 4 74 211 443
Soybeans, mature seeds, sprouted, 1/2 cup 47 3 8423 0 2 8 1 2 86 3 1 6 7
cooked, steamed
Soybeans, mature seeds, sprouted, raw 1 cup 70 8 4 9 5 7 1 47 1 50 115 339
Soybeans, miso 1/2 cup 138 283 16 8 38 7 91 4 58 210 226
Soybeans, tempeh 1/2 cup 83 165 16 6 14 0 77 2 58 171 305
Soybeans, tofu, firm 1/2 cup 126 97 10 6 4 1 204 2 58 185 222
Soybeans, tofu, lite, firm 1/2 cup 125 4 6 8 1 1 0 45 1 12 101 79
Soybeans, tofu, soft 1/2 cup 124 7 6852 01 3 8 1 3 3 1 1 4 1 4 9
NUTS & SEEDS
Almonds, dry roasted, without salt 1/3 cup 46 275 10 24 9 5 122 2 132 225 343
added whole kernels
Beechnuts, dried 1 oz 28 163 2 14 9 (-) 0 1 0 0 288
Brazil nuts, dried, blanched 1/3 cup shelled 47 306 7 31 6 3 82 2 105 280 280
(11 kernels)
Cashew nuts, dry roasted, without 1/3 cup halves 46 262 7 21 15 1 21 3 119 224 258
saltadded and whole
Chestnuts, European, roasted 1/3 cup 48 117 2 1 25 2 14 0 16 51 282
Ginkgo nuts, dried 1 oz 28 99 3 1 21 (-) 6 0 15 76 283
Hazelnuts (filberts) 1/3 cup whole 45 283 7 27 8 4 51 2 73 131 306
Lotus seeds, dried 1/4 cup 8 2 7104( - )1 3 0 1 75 0 1 0 9
Macadamia nuts, dry roasted, without 1/3 cup whole 45 321 3 34 6 4 31 1 53 88 162
salt added or halves
Pecans 1/3 cup halves 36 249 3 26 5 3 25 1 44 100 148
Pistachio nuts, dry roasted, without salt added 1/3 cup 43 243 9 20 12 4 46 2 51 207 441
Safflower seed kernels, dried 1 oz 28 147 5 11 10 (-) 22 1 100 183 195
Sesame seeds, whole, dried 1/4 cup 36 206 6 18 8 4 351 5 126 226 168
Squash and pumpkin seed kernels, dried 1/4 cup 34 187 8 16 6 1 15 5 185 405 278
Squash and pumpkin seeds, whole, 1/4 cup 16 7 1339( - ) 90 4 21 5 1 4 7
roasted, without salt added
Sunflower seed kernels, dry roasted, 1/4 cup 32 186 6 16 8 3 22 1 41 370 272
without salt added
Walnuts, English 1/3 cup halves 33 218 5 22 5 2 35 1 53 115 147468 Appendix
Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g) 
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)HIGH-PROTEIN FOODS (continued )156 1 0 1 2 0 0.0 0.0 4 0 0.1 29 0.0 0 0 3 3 8 5 0
149 1 0 0 2 0 0.0 0.0 4 0 0.1 24 0.0 0 0 3 3 8 4 0
3 0 0 0 0 38 0.1 0.0 0 0 0.1 23 0.0 104 11 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 1 11 0.2 0.0 2 0 0.2 51 0.0 478 48 0 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 0 1 0 0.2 0.0 1 1 0.0 64 0.0 7 1 0 0 0 0 0
1 1 0 1 6 1 0.1 0.2 0 0 0.2 46 0.0 8 1 2 1 2 4 0
5 0 0 0 0 4 0.1 0.0 1 0 0.0 38 0.0 5 0 0 0 0 1 0
10 1 0 0 0 11 0.2 0.1 1 1 0.1 120 0.0 8 1 0 1 1 3 0
5,015 5 1 1 2 0 0.1 0. 3 1 0 0.3 45 0.0 120 12 0 1 2 5 0
5 2 1 1 7 0 0.1 0.1 4 0 0.2 43 0.8 569 57 0 1 1 4 0
10 1 0 1 12 0 0.1 0.1 0 0 0.1 42 0.0 10 1 0 1 1 3 0
106 0 0 (-) (-) 0 0.0 0.0 0 (-) 0.0 (-) 0.0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
10 1 0 0 11 0 0.1 0.0 1 0 0.1 55 0.0 9 1 0 1 1 3 0
0 2 1 1 4 0 0.0 0.4 2 0 0.1 15 0.0 0 0 12 2 15 6 0
11 0 0 0 (-) 4 0.1 0.1 0 0 0.2 32 0.0 0 0 (-) 2 6 6 0
1 2 1 0 1,381 0 0.5 0. 1 1 0 0.1 2 0.0 0 0 1 8 11 11 0
7 3 1 0 5 0 0.1 0.1 1 1 0.1 32 0.0 0 0 0 4 12 6 0
1 0 0 1 1 12 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.2 33 0.0 11 0 1 0 0 0 0
4 0 0 0 (-) 8 0.1 0.1 3 0 0.2 30 0.0 309 31 (-) 0 0 0 0
0 1 1 3 2 3 0.3 0.1 1 0 0.3 51 0.0 18 2 7 3 21 4 0
0 0 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 8 0.0 4 0 (-) 0 0 0 0
2 1 0 1 2 0 0.3 0.0 1 0 0.2 4 0.0 0 0 0 5 26 1 0
0 2 0 2 2 0 0.2 0.0 0 0 0.1 8 0.0 28 3 1 2 15 8 0
4 1 1 1 3 1 0.4 0.1 1 0 0.7 21 0.0 227 23 2 2 10 6 0
1 1 0 1 (-) 0 0.3 0.1 1 1 0.3 45 0.0 14 1 (-) 1 1 8 0
4 3 1 2 2 0 0.3 0.1 2 0 0.3 35 0.0 3 0 (-) 2 7 8 0
6 3 0 1 2 1 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.1 20 0.0 131 13 0 3 5 7 03 2 0 0 (-) 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1 0.0 10 1 (-) 1 1 1 0
1 2 1 1 25 0 0.0 0.1 2 2 0.2 76 0.0 0 0 16 2 3 10 0
1 1 1 1 2 0 0.1 0.1 1 0 0.2 33 0.0 14 1 1 2 3 16 0Nutrients in Foods 469Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)470 Appendix
CHEESE Serving Size
American, pasteurized processed 2 oz 57 213 13 18 1 0 349 0 13 422 92
Blue 1 1/2 oz 43 150 9 12 1 0 224 0 10 165 109
Brick 1 1/2 oz 43 158 10 13 1 0 286 0 10 192 58
Brie 1 1/2 oz 43 142 9 12 0 0 78 0 9 80 65
Camembert 1 1/2 oz 43 170 8 10 0 0 165 0 8 147 79
Caraway 1 1/2 oz 43 160 11 12 1 0 286 0 9 208 40
Cheddar, low fat 1 1/2 oz 43 74 10 3 1 0 176 0 7 206 28
Cheddar, whole 1 1/2 oz 57 171 11 14 1 0 307 0 12 218 42
Cheese food 2 oz 57 186 11 14 4 0 326 0 17 428 158
Cheese spread 2 oz 57 165 9 12 5 0 319 0 16 496 137
Cheshire 1 1/2 oz 43 165 10 13 2 0 273 0 9 197 40
Colby 1 1/2 oz 43 167 10 14 1 0 291 0 11 194 54
Cottage, creamed, large curd 2 cups 420 434 52 19 11 0 252 1 22 554 354
Cottage, creamed, small curd 2 cups 450 465 56 20 12 0 270 1 24 593 379
Cottage, nonfat, uncreamed, 2 cups 290 245 50 1 5 0 92 1 11 302 94
large, small, or dry curd
Cottage, 1% 2 cups 452 327 56 5 12 0 275 1 24 605 386
Cottage, 2% 2 cups 452 405 62 9 16 0 310 1 27 680 435
Cream cheese 2 Tblsp (1 oz) 28 99 2 10 1 0 23 0 2 34 12
Cream cheese, fat free 2 Tblsp (1 oz) 28 2 8402 0 5 4 0 4 1 2 6 4 7
Edam 1 1/2 oz 43 152 11 12 1 0 311 0 13 228 80
Farmer’s 1 1/2 oz 43 150 9 12 1 0 300 0 12 225 38
Feta 1 1/2 oz 43 112 6 9 2 0 209 0 8 143 26
Fontina 1 1/2 oz 43 165 11 13 1 0 234 0 6 147 27
Goat 1 1/2 oz 43 155 9 13 1 0 127 1 12 159 67
Gorgonzola 1 1/2 oz 43 150 9 14 0 0 225 0 (-) (-) (-)
Gouda 1 1/2 oz 43 152 11 12 1 0 298 0 12 232 51
Gruyère 1 1/2 oz 43 176 13 14 0 0 430 0 15 257 34
Limburger 1 1/2 oz 43 139 9 12 0 0 211 0 9 167 54
Monterey Jack 1 1/2 oz 43 159 10 13 0 0 317 0 11 189 34
Mozzarella, part skim 1 1/2 oz 43 108 10 7 1 0 275 0 10 197 36
Mozzarella, whole 1 1/2 oz 43 120 8 9 1 0 220 0 8 158 29
Muenster 1 1/2 oz 43 157 10 13 0 0 305 0 12 199 57
Neufchâtel 1 1/2 oz 43 111 4 10 1 0 32 0 3 58 49
Parmesan 1 Tblsp 5 2 3220 0 6 9 0 34 0 5
Provolone 1 1/2 oz 43 149 11 11 1 0 321 0 12 211 59
Ricotta, part skim 1/2 cup 124 171 14 10 6 0 337 1 18 226 155
Ricotta, whole 1/2 cup 124 216 14 16 4 0 257 0 14 196 130
Romano 1 1/2 oz 43 164 14 11 2 0 452 0 17 323 37DAIRYFOODS
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 471
8 1 1 200 8 00 . 00 . 2 0  00 . 0 4 0 . 46 8 61 6 4( - ) 0 1 1515 4
593 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 1 0.1 15 0.5 307 97 (-) 0 8 3 0 32
238 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 9 0.5 460 128 (-) 0 8 4 0 40
268 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.1 28 0.7 284 77 (-) 0 7 3 0 43
358 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 1 0.1 26 0.6 393 107 (-) 0 6 3 0 31
293 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 8 0.1 448 123 (-) (-) 8 4 0 40
260 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 5 0.2 99 27 (-) 0 2 1 0 9
264 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 8 0.4 450 118 (-) 0 9 4 0 45
905 2 0 0 9 0 0.0 0.3 0 0 0.1 4 0.6 518 124 (-) (-) 9 4 0 36
921 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.1 4 0.2 447 107 (-) (-) 8 4 0 31
298 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 8 0.4 419 104 (-) (-) 8 4 0 44
257 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 8 0.4 440 117 (-) 0 9 4 0 40
1,700 2003 800 . 10 . 7 1 10 . 35 12 . 66 8 52 0 2( - ) 1 1 2516 3
1,822 2004 100 . 10 . 7 1 10 . 35 52 . 87 3 42 1 6( - ) 1 1 3616 7
3 7 1003 100 . 10 . 4 0 00 . 24 32 . 4 8 7 2 2 ( - ) 0 1 001 9
1,835 2004 100 . 10 . 7 1 10 . 35 62 . 91 6 7 5 0 ( - ) 0 3 102 0
1,835 2004 600 . 10 . 8 1 10 . 35 93 . 23 1 6 9 0 ( - ) 0 6 203 8
84 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 7 0.1 405 108 (-) 0 6 3 0 31
158 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 11 0.1 270 81 (-) 0 0 0 0 0
410 2 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 7 0.7 390 108 (-) 0 7 3 0 38
285 1 (-) (-) (-) 0 (-) 0.1 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0.7 450 129 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-)
475 1 0 0 6 0 0.1 0.4 0 0 0.2 14 0.7 190 54 (-) 0 6 2 0 38
340 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 3 0.7 499 123 (-) 0 8 4 1 49
219 0 0 0 2 0 0.0 0.3 0 0 0.0 1 0.1 567 170 (-) 0 9 3 0 34
585 (-) (-) (-) (-) 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 450 90 (-) (-) 9 (-) (-) 38
348 2 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 9 0.7 274 74 (-) 0 7 3 0 48
143 2 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 4 0.7 518 128 (-) 0 8 4 1 47
340 1 0 0 4 0 0.0 0.2 0 1 0.0 24 0.4 545 134 (-) 0 7 4 0 38
228 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 8 0.4 404 108 (-) 0 8 4 0 38
198 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 4 0.4 248 75 (-) 0 4 2 0 25
159 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 3 0.3 337 102 (-) 0 6 3 0 33
267 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 5 0.6 476 134 (-) 0 8 4 0 41
170 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 5 0.1 482 128 (-) (-) 6 3 0 32
93 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0.1 35 9 (-) 0 1 0 0 4
372 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 4 0.6 347 112 (-) 0 7 3 0 29
1 5 5 2002 100 . 00 . 2 0 00 . 01 60 . 45 3 61 4 0( - ) 0 6 303 8
1 0 4 1001 800 . 00 . 2 0 00 . 11 50 . 46 0 81 6 6( - ) 0 1 0406 3
510 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 3 0.5 162 60 (-) 0 7 3 0 44
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin D (IU) Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )472 Appendix
Serving Size
CHEESE (continued )
Roquefort 1 1/2 oz 43 157 9 13 1 0 281 0 13 167 39
Swiss 1 1/2 oz 43 160 12 12 1 0 409 0 15 257 47
Tilsit 1 1/2 oz 43 145 10 11 1 0 298 0 6 213 27
CREAM
Half & half 1 fl oz 30 3 9131 0 3 2 0 32 93 9
Light 1 fl oz 30 5 9161 0 2 9 0 32 43 7
Sour 1 Tblsp 12 2 6031 0 1 4 0 11 01 7
Substitute, dry (nondairy creamer) 2 Tblspa1 26 6147 030 05 19 7
Substitute, liquid (nondairy 1 fl oza3 04 1033 030 01 95 7
creamer)
Whipped, pressurized 1 fl oz 6 1 5011 060 1 5 9
Whipping, heavy 1 fl oz 30 103 1 11 1 0 19 0 2 19 22
Whipping, light 1 fl oz 30 8 8191 0 2 1 0 21 82 9
FROZEN DESSERT
Ice cream, chocolate 1 1/2 cup 198 428 8 22 56 2 216 2 57 212 493
Ice cream, vanilla 1 1/2 cup 198 398 7 22 47 0 253 0 28 208 394
Ice milk, vanilla 1 1/2 cup 198 276 8 8 45 0 276 0 30 216 417
Tofu, frozen dessert, vanilla 1 1/2 cup 225 600 6 33 63 0 (-) (-) (-) (-) 90
Yogurt, softserve (chocolate) 1 cup 144 230 6 9 39 3 212 2 39 200 376
MILK
Acidophilus milk, low fat (1%) 1 cup 244 90 8 3 12 0 300 0 34 234 381
Buttermilk 1 cup 245 99 8 2 12 0 285 0 27 219 371
Chocolate, low fat 1 cup 250 158 8 3 26 1 287 1 33 257 426
Condensed, sweetened 1 fl oza38 123 3 3 21 0 108 0 10 97 142
Dry, instant 1/3 cupb23 82 8 0 12 0 283 0 27 226 392
Dry, nonfat 1/3 cupa30 109 11 0 16 0 377 0 33 290 538
Evaporated, nonfat 1 fl oza3 22 5204 0 9 2 0 96 2 1 0 6
Evaporated, whole 1 fl oza3 24 2223 0 8 2 0 86 49 5
Goat 1 cup 244 168 9 10 11 0 326 0 34 270 499
Low fat (1%) 1 cup 244 102 8 3 12 0 300 0 34 235 381
Low lactose milk, low fat (1%) 1 cup 246 103 9 3 12 0 303 0 34 236 384
Nonfat (skim) 1 cup 245 86 8 0 12 0 302 0 28 247 406
Reduced fat (2%) 1 cup 244 121 8 5 12 0 297 0 33 232 377
Rice milk 1 cup 245 120 0.4 2 25 0 20c01 0 3 4 6 9Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)DAIRYFOODS (continued )Nutrients in Foods 473
769 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 1 0.1 21 0.3 445 127 (-) (-) 8 4 1 38
111 2 0 0 5 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 3 0.7 359 108 (-) 0 8 3 0 39
320 1 0 0 6 0 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 9 0.9 444 124 (-) 0 7 3 0 43
12 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 1 0.1 131 32 (-) 0 2 1 0 11
12 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1 0.1 190 55 (-) 0 4 2 0 20
6 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1 0.0 95 23 (-) 0 2 1 0 5
22 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0.0 24 2 (-) 0 4 0 0 0
24 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0.0 27 3 (-) (-) 3 0 0 0
8 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0.0 51 12 (-) 0 1 0 0 5
11 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1 0.1 438 125 (-) 0 7 3 0 41
10 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 0.0 0 0 0.0 1 0.1 169 89 (-) 0 6 3 0 33
1 5 0 100 5 10 . 10 . 4 0 10 . 13 20 . 68 2 42 3 6( - ) 1 1 3616 7
158 1 0 0 5 1 0.1 0.5 0 1 0.1 10 0.8 810 232 (-) 0 13 6 1 7
168 1 0 0 5 1 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 1.3 327 93 0 0 5 2 0 27
270 (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) (-) 4 9 19 0
141 1 0 0 3 0 0.1 0.3 0 1 0.1 16 0.4 230 62 (-) 0 5 3 0 7
122 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 500 144 96 0 2 1 0 10
257 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.5 81 20 (-) 0 1 1 0 9
152 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 500 148 100 0 2 1 0 7
49 0 0 0 6 1 0.0 0.2 0 0 0.0 4 0.2 125 31 (-) 0 2 1 0 13
126 1 0 0 6 1 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 11 0.9 545 163 133 0 0 0 0 4
161 1 0 0 8 2 0.1 0.5 0 1 0.1 15 1.2 659 198 101 0 0 0 0 6
37 0 0 0 1 0 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 3 0.1 125 37 25 0 0 0 0 1
33 0 0 0 1 1 0.0 0.1 0 0 0.0 2 0.1 77 17 (-) 0 1 1 0 9
122 1 0 0 3 3 0.1 0.3 1 1 0.1 1 0.2 451 137 29 0 7 3 0 28
123 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 500 144 98 0 2 1 0 10
123 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 504 145 100 (-) 2 1 0 10
126 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.3 0 1 0.1 13 0.9 500 149 98 0 0 0 0 4
122 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 500 139 98 0 3 1 0 18
86 0 0 0 (-) 1 0.1 0.0 1 0 0.0 91 0.0 5 0 0 (-) 0 1 0 0
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin D (IU) Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )474 Appendix
Sodium (mg)Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g) Serving Size 
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)FATS AND OILS
Weight (g)
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Fiber (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)
Potassium (mg)DAIRYFOODS (continued )
Serving Size
MILK (continued )
S o y 1  c u p 2 4 5 8 1754 3 1 0c1 47 120 345
Whole 1 cup 244 150 8 8 11 0 291 0 33 228 370
YOGURT
Low fat, plain 1 cup 245 155 13 4 17 0 447 0 43 352 573
Low fat, fruit 8-oz container 227 225 9 3 42 0 314 0 30 247 402
Skim, plain 1 cup 245 137 14 0 19 0 488 0 47 383 625
Whole milk, plain 1 cup 245 150 9 8 11 0 296 0 28 233 379
aNo serving size specified for this item by the Food Guide Pyramid.
bMakes 1 cup reconstituted milk.
cNot calcium-fortified. Calcium-fortified soy and rice milks, which provide the same amount of calcium as cow’s milk, are a
better choice.
FATS (PLANT & ANIMAL)
Butter, whipped, with salt 1 Tblsp 9 67 0 8 0 0 2 0 0 2 2 78
Butter, with salt 1 Tblsp 14 102 0 12 0 0 3 0 0 3 4 117
Butter, without salt 1 Tblsp 14 102 0 12 0 0 3 0 0 3 4 1
Lard 1 Tblsp 13 115 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Margarine-butter blend, 60% corn oil 1 Tblsp 14 102 0 11 0 0 4 0 0 3 5 127
margarine and 40% butter
Margarine, hard, corn oil 1 Tblsp 14 101 0 11 0 0 4 0 0 3 6 133
(hydrogenated and regular)
Margarine, hard, unspecified oil, 1 Tblsp 14 99 0 11 0 0 2 0 0 2 9 1
without salt
Margarine, liquid, soybean and 1 Tblsp 14 102 0 11 0 0 9 0 1 7 13 111
cottonseed oils (hydrogenated) 29 1 0 0 3 0 0.4 0.2 0 0 0.1 4 0.0 78 7 (-) 0 1 1 2 0
120 1 0 0 5 2 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 12 0.9 307 76 98 0 5 2 0 33
172 2 0 0 8 2 0.1 0.5 0 1 0.1 27 1.4 162 39 (-) 0 2 1 0 15
121 2 0 0 6 1 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 19 1.0 111 27 (-) 0 2 1 0 10
187 2 0 0 9 2 0.1 0.6 0.3 2 0.1 30 1.5 17 5 (-) 0 0 0 0 4
114 1 0 0 5 1 0.1 0.4 0 1 0.1 18 0.9 301 74 (-) 0 5 2 0 31Nutrients in Foods 475
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin D (IU) Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 2 8 7 7 1 0520 2 0 ( - )
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 4 3 4 1 070730 3 10
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 4 3 4 1 070730 3 1 ( - )
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 0561 1 20
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 5 0 7 1 131452 1 2 4 9
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 5 0 4 1 13225308 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 5 0 1 1 13225303 7
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 5 0 7 1 13124502 5
Cholesterol (mg)
Phytosterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)
(continues )Fats (Plant & Animal) (continued )
Margarine, reduced fat (40% fat) corn 1 Tblsp 14 50 0 6 0 0 3 0 0 2 4 139
Margarine, soft, corn (hydrogenated) 1 Tblsp 14 101 0 11 0 0 4 0 0 3 6 153
Shortening, household, soybean and 1 Tblsp 13 113 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
cottonseed oils (hydrogenated)
PLANT OILS
Canola 1 Tblsp 14 124 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Coconut 1 Tblsp 14 117 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Corn 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Cottonseed 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Olive 1 Tblsp 14 119 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Palm 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Palm kernel 1 Tblsp 14 117 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Peanut 1 Tblsp 14 119 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Safflower, linoleic (over 70%) 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Soybean 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sunflower, linoleic, (60% and over) 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
SPECIALTY OILS
Almond 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Grape-seed 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Hazelnut 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Poppyseed 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sesame 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Walnut 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Wheat germ 1 Tblsp 14 120 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0476 Appendix
Sodium (mg)Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g) 
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)FATS AND OILS(continued )
Serving Size Nutrients in Foods 477
0 ( - ) ( - ) 0 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 . 05 1 8 1 1 6 ( - ) 12203 9
0 ( - ) ( - ) 0 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 . 05 0 6 1 1 3 ( - ) 24406 8
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 136302 6
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 31840 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 0 1 2 1001 2
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 32380 1 3 2
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 542704 4
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 2 2 1 0 1 0 3 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 37510 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 1 1 1 2001 3
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 226402 8
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 6 1 2 1 0 0 6 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 223803 4
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 713901 4
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 5 1 1 0 2 0 3 6
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 0 2 4
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 6
0 ( - ) ( - ) 0 0 0 . 0 0 . 0 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 ( - ) 23803 6
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 12560 1 1 8
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 013902 4
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 0 0 0 2 6 32807 5
Cholesterol (mg)
Phytosterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Chocolate, baking, unsweetened squares 1 square (1 oz) 28 148 3 16 8 21 2 88 118 236 4
Chocolate, milk chocolate 1 bar (1.5 oz) 44 226 3 14 26 84 1 26 95 169 36
Chocolate, semisweet, chips 60 pieces (1 oz) 28 136 1 9 18 9 1 33 37 103 3
Cocoa powder, unsweetened 1 Tblsp 5 11 1 1 3 6 1 25 37 76 1
Honey, strained or extracted 1 Tblsp 21 64 0 0 17 1 0 0 1 11 1
Sugar, brown 1 tsp, packed 5 17 0 0 4 4 0 1 1 16 2
Sugar, maple 1 tsp 3 11 0 0 3 3 0 1 0 8 0
Sugar, powdered (confectioners’) 1 tsp 3 10 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sugar, white, granulated 1 tsp 4 16 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sugar, white, granulated 1 individual packet 6 23 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 0
Syrup, corn, dark 1 Tblsp 20 56 0 0 15 4 0 2 2 9 31
Syrup, corn, high-fructose 1 Tblsp 19 53 0 0 14 0 0 0 0 0 0
Syrup, corn, light 1 Tblsp 20 56 0 0 15 1 0 0 0 1 24
Syrup, malt 1 Tblsp 24 76 1 0 17 15 0 17 56 77 8
Syrup, maple 1 Tblsp 20 52 0 0 13 13 0 3 0 41 2
Syrup, molasses 1 Tblsp 20 53 0 0 14 41 1 48 6 293 7
Syrup, sorghum 1 Tblsp 21 61 0 0 16 32 1 21 12 210 2
Syrup, table blends, corn, refiner, 1 Tblsp 20 64 0 0 17 5 0 2 2 13 14
and sugar
Syrup, table blends, pancake, with 1 Tblsp 20 53 0 0 14 1 0 0 2 1 12
2% maple478 Appendix
SWEETENERS
Sodium (mg)Potassium (mg)Weight (g) 
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)Serving Size110200 . 00 . 0000 . 020 . 0 2 8 2 . 80 9500
100200 . 00 . 1000 . 040 . 2 8 1 2 4 0 . 58401 0
000100 . 00 . 0000 . 010 . 06 0 . 50 5300
000 ( - ) 00 . 00 . 0 0 . 1 00 . 020 . 010( - )0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 010 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0200 . 130 . 000 0 0000
101000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000
000400 . 00 . 0000 . 100 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 100 . 000 0 0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 010 . 000( - )0000
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000 0 0000Nutrients in Foods 479
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)480 Appendix
BEVERAGES
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Beer
Light 1 can or bottle 354 9 9050 1 1 1 8 0 1 8 4 26 4
(12 fl oz)
Regular 1 can or bottle 356 146 0 13 1 13 18 0 21 43 89
(12 fl oz)
Distilled spirits
80 proof (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey) 1.5 fl oz 42 9 7000 1 4000 2 1
86 proof (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey) 1.5 fl oz 42 105 0 0 0 1 5000 2 1
94 proof (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey) 1.5 fl oz 42 116 0 0 0 1 7000 2 1
100 proof (gin, rum, vodka, whiskey) 1.5 fl oz 42 124 0 0 0 1 8000 2 1
Wine
Dessert, dry 5 fl oz 147 186 0 6 0 23 12 0 13 13 136
Dessert, sweet 5 fl oz 147 226 0 17 0 23 12 0 13 13 136
Table, red 5 fl oz 147 106 0 2 0 14 12 1 19 21 165
Table, rosé 5 fl oz 147 105 0 2 0 14 12 1 15 22 146
Table, white 5 fl oz 147 100 0 1 0 14 13 0 15 21 118
Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g)
Calories
Alcohol (g)Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)Serving SizeNutrients in Foods 481
1 1000400 . 00 . 1100 . 11 50 . 0 0 0 00000
1 8000400 . 00 . 1200 . 22 10 . 1 0 0 00000
0 000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
0 000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
0 000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
0 000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
1 3 000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
1 3 000100 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
7001000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 3 0 . 0 0 0 00000
7000000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 2 0 . 0 0 0 00000
7001000 . 00 . 0000 . 0 0 0 . 0 0 0 00000
Cholesterol (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU)Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Sodium (mg)
(continues )482 Appendix
COFFEE
Brewed, prepared with tap water 6 fl oz 178 4 0 0 1 0 4 0 9 2 96 4
Instant, decaffeinated, powder, 6 fl oz 179 4 0 0 1 0 5 0 7 5 63 5
prepared with water
Instant, regular, prepared with 6 fl oz 179 4 0 0 1 0 5 0 7 5 64 5
water
Substitute, cereal grain beverage, 6 fl oz 180 9 0 0 2 0 5 0 7 13 43 7
prepared with water
SODA
Club soda 12 fl oz 355 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 3.55 0 7 75
Cola, contains caffeine 12 fl oz 370 15 2003 801 10 4 4 4 4 1 5
Cola, low calorie, w ith aspartame, 12 fl oz 355 4 0 0 0 0 14 0 4 32 0 21
contains caffeine
Cream soda 12 fl oz 371 18 9004 901 90 4 0 4 4 5
Ginger ale 12 fl oz 366 12 4003 201 11 4 0 4 2 6
Grape soda 12 fl oz 372 16 0004 201 10 4 0 4 5 6
Lemon-lime soda 12 fl oz 368 14 7003 80 7 0 4 0 4 4 0
Orange, contains caffeine 12 fl oz 372 17 9004 601 90 4 4 7 4 5
Pepper-type 12 fl oz 368 15 1003 801 10 0 4 0 4 3 7
Root beer 12 fl oz 370 15 2003 901 90 4 0 4 4 8
TEA
Black (unspecified), brewed, 6 fl oz 178 2 0 01000 5 26 65
prepared with tap water
Herb, chamomile, brewed 6 fl oz 178 2 0 01040 2 01 62
Herb, not chamomile, brewed 6 fl oz 178 2 0 00040 2 01 62
Fiber (g)
Potassium (mg)Weight (g) 
Calories
Protein (g)
Fat (g)
Carbohydrates (g)
Calcium (mg)
Iron (mg)
Magnesium (mg)
Phosphorus (mg)BEVERAGES (continued )
Serving Size
Sodium (mg)Nutrients in Foods 483
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 000000001 0 3
000000 . 00 . 0100 . 000 . 00000000 2
000000 . 00 . 0100 . 000 . 00000000 5 7
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 010 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 3 7000000 . 00 . 1000 . 000 . 00000000 5 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 3 7
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 000 . 00000000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 090 . 00000000 3 6
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 010 . 0 3 6 400000 0
000000 . 00 . 0000 . 010 . 00000000 0
Cholesterol (mg)
Caffeine (mg)Polyunsaturated fat (g)Monounsaturated fat (g)Saturated fat (g)Vitamin E (mg)Vitamin A (RE) Vitamin A (IU) Vitamin B12(μg)Folate (μg)Vitamin B6(mg)Pantothenic acid (mg)Niacin (mg)Riboflavin (mg)Thiamin (mg)Vitamin C (mg)Selenium (μg)Manganese (mg)Copper (mg)Zinc (mg)Fruits
Apples, raw, with skin 30
Apricots, raw 0 2,554 0 0 5
Apricots, dried, uncooked
Avocados, raw 28 53 36
Bananas, raw 5 21 0 0 0
Blackberries, raw
Blueberries, raw 0 35
Breadfruit, raw
Cantaloupe, raw 27 1,595 0 40 0
Carambola (starfruit), raw (2) 42 36 42
Casaba melon, raw
Cherimoya, raw
Cherries, sweet, raw 28
Cherries, sour, red, raw
Coconut meat (nuts), raw
Cranberries, raw
Currants, red and white, raw
Dates, domestic, natural and dry
Durian, raw or frozen 6 23 0
Elderberries, raw
Feijoa, raw
Figs, raw
Figs, dried, uncooked
Gooseberries, raw
Grapes, American type (slip skin), raw
Grapes, red or green, seedless, raw
Grapefruit, raw, pink and red, all areas (not white) 5 603 12 13 1,462
Guavas, common, raw 984 66 1,150
Honeydew melon, raw
Jackfruit, raw (2) 360 36 17
Jujube, raw
Kiwi fruit, fresh, raw
Kumquats, raw 0
Lemons, raw, with peel
Limes, raw
Longans, raw
Longans, dried484 Appendix
TABLE 8:PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENTS OF SELECTED FOODSAlpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoids ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)X
X
X
X
X
XPhytochemicals 485Glycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsOther phytochemicalsLoquats, raw
Lychees, raw
Lychees, dried
Mangos, raw 17 445 11
Mangosteen, canned, syrup pack 1 16 9
Mulberries, raw
Nectarines, raw 0 101 59
Olives, ripe, canned 
Oranges, raw, all commercial varieties 16 51 122 187 0
Papayas, raw 0 276 761 75 0
Passion-fruit, yellow, raw 35 525 46
Peaches, raw 1 97 24 57 0
Pears, raw 6 27
Pears, Asian, raw
Persimmons, Japanese, raw 253 1,447 834 158
Pineapple, raw (2) 230 89 399
Plantains, cooked
Plums, raw 98 16
Pomegranates, raw
Prickly pears, raw 0 24 3
Prunes (dried plums), uncooked
Pummelo, raw 0 0
Quinces, raw
Raisins, seedless
Rambutan, canned, syrup pack 0 2 0
Raspberries, raw 12 8 0
Rhubarb, raw
Sapodilla, raw
Strawberries, raw 5
Tamarinds, raw 0 8
Tangerines, raw 14 71 485 243 0
Watermelon, raw 0 295 103 17 4,868
Vegetables
Amaranth leaves, cooked
Artichokes, cooked
Arugula, raw
Asparagus, raw 12 493
Asparagus, cooked, boiled, drained486 Appendix
PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENTS OF SELECTED FOODS (continued )Alpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoids ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)Phytochemicals 487
Other phytochemicals
XX
X
X
X
XXGlycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsBamboo (shoots), cooked
Beans, snap, green, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 92 552 0 700 0
Beans, snap, yellow, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Beet greens, cooked, boiled, drained without salt 2,560
Beets, cooked, boiled, drained
Bitter melon (balsam pear), leafy tips, cooked, boiled, 
drained, without salt
Bitter melon (balsam pear), pods, cooked, boiled, drained, 
without salt
Broccoli, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 1,042 0 2,226 0
Broccoli, raw 1 779 0 2,445 0
Brussels sprouts, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 465 0 1,290 0
Cabbage, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 90
Cabbage, raw 0 65 0 310 0
Carrots, cooked 4,109 8,015
Carrots, baby, raw 4,425 7,275 0 358 0
Cassava, raw 0 8 0
Cauliflower, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Cauliflower, raw
Celeriac, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Celeriac, raw
Celery, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 210 0 250 0
Celery, raw 0 150 0 232 0
Chayote, fruit, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 0 0
Chicory greens, raw
Chicory roots, raw
Cabbage, chinese (bok choy), boiled, drained, without salt
Cabbage, chinese (bok choy), raw
Cabbage, napa, cooked 49 133 0
Collards, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 90 4,418 20 8,091 0
Corn, sweet, yellow, canned, whole kernel, drained solids 33 30 0 884 0
Cress, water, raw
Cucumber, with peel, raw 138
Eggplant, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Fennel, bulb, raw
Fennel seed (spice)
Fenugreek seed (spice)
Garlic, raw488 Appendix
PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENTS OF SELECTED FOODS (continued )Alpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoidsm ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)Phytochemicals 489
Other phytochemicals
XX X
XX X
XX
XX X
XX X
X
X
X
X
XX X
XX X
XX X
XGlycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsGingerroot, raw
Horseradish, prepared 0 0 0
Jerusalem artichokes, raw
Jicama (yam bean), raw
Kelp (seaweed), raw
Kohlrabi, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Kohlrabi, raw
Leeks (bulb and lower leaf-portion), cooked, boiled, 
drained, without salt
Leeks (bulb and lower leaf-portion), raw, chopped
Lettuce, iceberg (includes crisphead types), raw 2 192 0 352 0
Mushrooms, black, dried 0 0 0
Mushrooms, raw
Okra, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 170 0 390 0
Onion, cooked
Onions, raw
Parsley, raw
Parsnips, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Parsnips, raw
Peppers, hot chili, green, raw
Peppers, hot chili, red, raw
Peppers, sweet, green, raw 22 198
Peppers, sweet, red, raw 59 2,379 2,205
Peppers, sweet, yellow, raw 120
Potatoes, baked, flesh, without salt
Radishes, raw
Rutabagas, cooked
Rutabagas, raw
Salsify (vegetable oyster), cooked, boiled, drained, without salt
Scallions (including tops and bulbs)
Spinach, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 5,242 0 7,043 0
Spinach, raw 0 5,597 0 11,938 0
Squash, summer, crookneck and straightneck, raw 0 90 0 290 0
Squash, winter, acorn, cooked, boiled, mashed, without salt 0 490 0 66 0
Sweet potato, cooked, baked in skin, without salt 0 9,488 0 0 0
Taro, cooked, without salt
Taro, raw
Taro leaves, cooked, steamed, without salt490 Appendix
PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENTS OF SELECTED FOODS (continued )Alpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoidsm ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)Phytochemicals 491
Other phytochemicals
X
X
X
XX
XX
X
X
X
XGlycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsTaro leaves, raw
Tomatillo
Tomatoes, red, ripe, raw 112 393 0 130 3,025
T urnip greens, cooked, boiled, drained, without salt 0 4,575 0 8,440 0
T urnips, raw
Water chestnuts, cooked
Water chestnuts, raw
Yam, cooked, boiled, drained, or baked, without salt 0
Grains
Amaranth
Barley, bran
Buckwheat groats, roasted, cooked
Bulgur, cooked
Hominy, canned, white
Millet, cooked
Oat bran
Quinoa
Rice bran, crude
Rice, brown, long-grain, cooked
Rice, white, long-grain, regular, cooked
Rye
Sorghum
T riticale
Wheat bran
Wild rice, cooked
Lentils and Legumes
Alfalfa seeds, sprouted, raw 00
Beans, adzuki, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, without salt
Beans, black, mature seeds, raw 00
Beans, cranberry, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, 
without salt
Beans, kidney, all types, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, 0 0
without salt
Beans, pinto, mature seeds, raw 0.01 0.26
Beans, small white, mature seeds, raw 0 0.74
Broadbeans (fava beans), mature seeds, raw 0.02 0492 Appendix
PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENTS OF SELECTED FOODS (continued )Alpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoids ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)Phytochemicals 493
Other phytochemicals
X
X
X
X
X
X
0
0
0 X 0 0 0.41
0.27 3.61 trace 0.56
0.74 0 0.82 0
0.03Glycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsChickpeas (garbanzo beans, bengal gram), mature seeds, raw 0.04 0.06
Cowpeas, catjang, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, without salt 0.01 0.02
Lentils, mature seeds, raw 00
Lima beans, large, mature seeds, cooked, boiled, without salt 0 0
Miso 16.13 24.56
Mung beans, mature seeds, raw 0.01 0.18
Natto 21.85 29.04
Peanuts, all types, raw 0.03 0.24
Peas, split, mature seeds, raw 2.42 0
Soy sauce made from soy (tamari)
Soybeans, mature cooked, boiled, without salt 26.95 27.71
Soybeans, mature seeds, sprouted, raw 19.12 21.6
Tempeh 17.59 24.85
Tofu, firm, prepared with calcium sulfate & nigari 9.44 13.35
Tofu, soft, prepared with calcium sulfate & nigari 11.99 18.23
Other
Tea, green, Japanese 0.01 0.04
Tea, jasmine, T winings 0.01 0.03
Wine, red
Nutrient values are in 100 grams of edible food unless otherwise noted.  Data on the phytochemical contents of foods are limite d.  “0” 
value = phytochemicals are not present.  “X” = the amount of phytochemicals is unspecified.  Blanks indicate that no data are a vailable.
This table was compiled from the following sources:  Meagher LP, Beecher GR:  Assessment of Data on the Lignan Content of Foods .
J Food Composition Analysis  13:935-947, 2000; Milner JA:  Nonnutritive components in foods as modifiers of the cancer process.   In 
Preventive Nutrition:  the Comprehensive Guide for Health Professionals.  2nd ed.  Edited by A Bendich, RJ Deckelbaum.  Totowa,
New Jersey, Humana Press, 2001, pp 131-154; Setiawan B, Sulaeman A, Giraud DW, Driskell JA:  Carotenoid content of selected Indonesian fruits.  J Food Composition Analysis  14:169-176, 2001; USDA–Iowa State University Database on the Isoflavone Conten t
of Foods—1999:  Table of analytical isoflavone values and table of analytical Coumestrol, Biochanin A, and Formononetin values 
(http://www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp/Data/isoflav/isoflav.html); USDA–NCC Carotenoid Database for US Foods—1998 (http://www.nal.usda.gov/fnic/foodcomp/Data/car98/car98.html).494 Appendix
PHYTOCHEMICAL CONTENT OF SELECTED FOOD ITEMS (continued )Alpha-carotene
Beta-caroteneBeta-cryptoxanthinLutein & zeaxanthinLycopeneDaidzeinGenisteinCarotenoids ( /H9262g) Isoflavones (mg)Phytochemicals 495
Other phytochemicals
1 0 0 1.52
0.03
0.01 X
0
2.87 42.55
0.19
8.17 58.93
0.26 X
2.42
54.66 X
40.71 X
2.10 43.52
2.08 24.74
2.03 31.10
0.05 X 0.03 X
0.04 X 0.03 X
XGlycitein
Total isoflavones
Terpenes
Ellagic acid
Inositol phosphates 
(phytates)
Lignans
Coumestrol
Formononetin
Biochanin A
Indoles
Isothiocyanates
Phenols & cyclic 
compounds
Sulfides & thiolsThis Page Intentionally Left BlankTop 10 Causes of Death (U.S. Population) (page 6)
Modified from Hoyert DL, Kochanek KD, Murphy SL:  Deaths:  final data for
1997.  National Vital Statistics Reports  47:1-104, 1999.
Healthy People 2010 (page 7)
From the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  Healthy People 2010
(Conference Edition, in two volumes).  Washington, DC, January 2000.
Eat 5 A Day for Better Health (page 8)
By permission of the Produce for Better Health Foundation.
Dietary Guidelines for Americans (page 9)
From the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Dietary
Guidelines Advisory Committee, 2000.  Nutrition and Your Health:  DietaryGuidelines for Americans, 2000.
The Food Guide Pyramid (pages 11 and 79)
Modified from the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, The Food Guide Pyramid.
How Many Servings Do You Need Each Day ? (page 13)
Modified from the International Food Information Council Foundation, U.S.
Department of Agriculture Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, and the FoodMarketing Institute:  The Food Guide Pyramid:  Beyond the Basic 4.  Revised 1996.
Pyramids (page 15)
Mayo Clinic Healthy Weight Pyramid:  From Energy density:  how to eat more and
achieve a healthy weight.  Mayo Clinic Women’s HealthSource, January 2001, p 2.  Bypermission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
California Pyramid:  From Heber D:  The Resolution Diet.  Garden City Park,
New York, Avery Publishing Group, 1999, p 80.  By permission of the author.
Asian Pyramid and Mediterranean Pyramid:  From Putting the whole back in
wholesome.  Supplement to Mayo Clinic Women’s HealthSource, November 1998.  Bypermission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
Body Mass Index T able (page 49)
Modified from National Institutes of Health Clinical Guidelines on the
Identification, Evaluation, and T reatment of Overweight and Obesity in Adults, 1998.Credits
497Illustration (top) on page 50
From Weight control:  what works and why.  Medical Essay (Supplement to Mayo
Clinic Health Letter), June 1994, p 1.  By permission of Mayo Foundation for MedicalEducation and Research.
Classification of High Blood Pressure (page 54)
From National Institutes of Health.  The Sixth Report of the Joint National
Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and T reatment of High BloodPressure, 1997.
Illustration on page 55
From Sheps SG:  Mayo Clinic on High Blood Pressure.  Rochester, Minnesota,
Mayo Clinic, 1999, p 11.  By permission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Educationand Research.
The Combination Diet From the DASH Study (page 56)
Modified from National Institutes of Health.  The DASH Diet (Publication No.
98-4082), 1998.
Illustration on page 62
From Larson DE:  Mayo Clinic Family Health Book.  New York, William Morrow
and Company, 1996, p B-3.  By permission of Mayo Foundation for MedicalEducation and Research.
Mini-Glossary of Lipid-Related T erms (page 63)
Modified from McGoon MD:  Mayo Clinic Heart Book.  New York, William
Morrow and Company, 1993, pp 347-355.  By permission of Mayo Foundation forMedical Education and Research.
Your Blood Lipid T est Results—What Do Those Numbers Mean ? (page 65)
From Cholesterol:  put knowledge behind your numbers to lower your confusion
level.  Medical Essay (Supplement to Mayo Clinic Health Letter), June 1993, p 4.  Bypermission of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
How You Grow Shorter (page 68)
From Osteoporosis:  it’s never too late to protect your bones.  Medical Essay
(Supplement to Mayo Clinic Health Letter), October 1997, p 2.  By permission ofMayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.
Osteoporosis in Men (page 70)
From Osteoporosis:  it’s never too late to protect your bones.  Medical Essay
(Supplement to Mayo Clinic Health Letter), October 1997, p 3.  By permission ofMayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research.498 CreditsCredits   499
How Much Vitamin D Is Enough ? (page 71)
Data from Standing Committee on the Scientific Evaluation of Dietary Reference
Intakes:  Dietary Reference Intakes for Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, Vitamin D, andFluoride.  National Academy Press, Washington, D.C., 1997, pp 250-287.
Tips for Selecting and T aking a Calcium Supplement (page 72)
From Osteoporosis:  it’s never too late to protect your bones.  Medical Essay
(Supplement to Mayo Clinic Health Letter), October 1997, p 7.  By permission of MayoFoundation for Medical Education and Research.
Logo on page 91
From US Food and Drug Administration:  Irradiation:  A Safe Measure for Safer Food.
May-June 1998 FDA Consumer (revised June 1998).
Health Claims (page 93)
Modified from US Food and Drug Administration Center for Food Safety and Applied
Nutrition:  A food labeling guide, September 1994 (editorial revisions June 1999).
Sources of Bacteria (page 148)
Data from USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service:  Four simple steps to food safety,
September 1999.
Cooking It Safe (page 149)
Modified from USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service:  Cook it safely!  It’s a matter
of degrees, September 1999.
Portions of the text of Grains (pages 269-289) and Beverages (pages 377-387) are from the
following articles on http ://www.MayoClinic.com (retrieved May 1, 2001) :
Celiac disease:  when food becomes the enemyPalm oil in breakfast cerealsWhat is hominy?Facts on flaxseedThe wonder of water: a drink to your healthWater, water everywhereThis Page Intentionally Left BlankA
Abalone, 318Acceptable daily intakes, sweeteners, 21-23Acerola, 154Acer saccharum , 402
Acesulfame-K, 22–23, 404Acidophilus milk, 348–349Acid orange, 167Actinidia deliciosa , 181
Active yogurt cultures, 358Adequate intake, 6ADI, seeAcceptable daily intakes
Adulthood, nutrition needs, 43Adzuki beans, 328-329African ginger, 237Agaricus bisporus , 245
Age
coronary artery disease, 65hypertension, 54osteoporosis, 68
AI,seeAdequate Intake
Aim for Fitness, as dietary guidelines 
for Americans, 8–9
Albumen, egg, 297Alcohol
cancer, 77
health, 387hypertension, 56limiting amount, daily, 86, 87osteoporosis, 73
Alcoholic beverages
beer, 386–387, 480–481content, 10distilled spirits, 480–481during supper, 86–87wine, 384–385, 480–481
Ale, 386Alfalfa, 325Alligator pear, 157Allium ampeloprasum , 243
Allium cepa , 247
Allium cepa var. aggregatum , 256
Allium sativum L., 236
All-purpose flour, 286–287Allspice, 369Almond, 334–335
Almond oil, 397Alpha-carotene, 32Amaranth, 212, 272Amaranthus dubius , 212
American Academy of Pediatrics, 15American Cancer Society, 14–15American Dietetic Association, 15American gooseberry, 162American Heart Association, 14–15Americans, dietary guidelines, 8–10American Society for Clinical Nutrition, 15America's health goals, Healthy People
2010, 6–8
Amino acids, classification, 25Ananas comosus , 199
Anemia, nutrition needs, 44Animal, as food source, cancer concerns,
76–77
Anise seeds, 369Annona cherimola , 169
Antioxidants
asparagus, 215grapefruit, 176lemon, 183lime, 184orange, 193tomato, 264vitamins and minerals as, 31–33
Apium graveolens , 225–226
Apoprotein, in coronary artery disease, 63Apple, 155, 223Apricot, 156Armoracia rusticana , 238
Aromatic wines, 385Arteries, hypertension effects, 54–55Artesian water, 378Artichoke, 213Artificial sweeteners, 404Artocarpus altilis , 166
Artocarpus communis , 166
Artocarpus heterophyllus , 179
Arugula, 214Asian currant, 161Asian ginger, 237Asian noodles, 289
Asian pear, 197Asian Pyramid, 14Asparagus, 215Asparagus officinalis , 215
Aspartame, 22, 404Atherosclerosis, 61–62Aubergine, 234Averrhoa carambola , 168
Avocado, 157Azuki beans, 328–329
B
Bacon, 305Bacteria, in kitchen, 148Bagels, 283Balsamic vinegar, 373Balsam pear, 218Bamboo, 216Bambusa , 216
Bamia, 246Banana, 158Barbados cherry, 154Barley, 272–273Barley flour, 272Basil, 364Bay leaf, 364–365Beechnut, 335Beef, 299–301, 454–455Beef cuts, 298Beefalo, 301Beer, 386–387, 480–481Beet, 217Behavior modification, in obesity, 53Belgian endive, 228Berries
blackberry, 159blueberry, 159–160cranberry, 160–161currant, 161elderberry, 162gooseberry, 162mulberry, 163nutrient content, 165
Index
501raspberry, 163–164
strawberry, 164
Beta-carotene, 32, 34Beta vulgaris , 217
Beverages
alcoholic, seeAlcoholic beverages
basics, 377–378coffee, 379–381, 482–483juice, 383soda pop, 384, 482–483sugars, 10tea, 381–383, 482–483water, 378–379
Bindi, 246Bioflavonoids, in lemon, 183Bitter cucumber, 218Bitter gourd, 218Bitter melon, 218Bittersweet chocolate, 404Bivalves, 317Black beans, 326–327Blackberry, 159, 165Black currant, 161Black-eyed peas, 329Black pepper, 373Black tea, 382Black treacle, 402Blended teas, 382Blood lipids, in coronary artery disease, 62,
64–65
Blood pressure, measurement, 54Blood sugar, levels in diabetes, 60Blood testing, in coronary artery disease,
63–64
Blueberry, 159–160, 165Blue cheeses, 356Blue-veined cheeses, 356Blush wines, 384BMI, seeBody mass index
Bock beer, 386Body frame, in osteoporosis, 68Body mass index, in obesity, 48–49Body protein, 24–25Body shape, in obesity, 48, 50Bok choy, 229Bone health, in osteoporosis, 69Bone mass, in osteoporosis, 69Bone mineral density, in women, 69Botulism toxin, in honey, 403Bounceberry, 160–161Brainhypertension effects, 54–55
as meat, 307
Bramble berry, 159Bran, 269, 273
definition, 273grain, 269
Brassica campestris L., 229
Brassica napus L., 254
Brassica oleracea , 219, 221
Brassica oleracea L. (botrytis ), 224
Brassica oleracea var. acephala , 230
Brassica oleracea var. caulorapo , 242
Brassica oleracea var. gemmifera , 220
Brassica rapa , 265
Brazil nut, 335–336Bread flour, 287Breadfruit, 166Breads
ingredients, 282–283nutrients, 446–449types, 283–285
Breakfast
makeover, 131–132, 135meal planning, 80–81sample menus, 96–123
Breastfeeding, nutrition needs, 43–45Brick cheese, 355Brie, 356Broad beans, 325–326Broccoli, 219Brown bagging, 81–82Brown sugar, 400Brussels sprouts, 220Buckwheat, 273Buckwheat flours, 273Buckwheat groats, 273Buckwheat noodles, 289Buffalo, 301“Build a healthy base,” 9–10Bulgur, 281Burgers, in lunch meal planning, 83Butter, 391Butter–margarine blends, 392Buttermilk, 348
C
Cabbage, 221Cabbage turnip, 242Café au lait, 380Café mocha, 380Caffeine
osteoporosis, 73tea content, 382
Cake flour, 287Calamondin, 167Calcium
amaranth leaves, 212chicory, 228collards, 230osteoporosis, 70–73spinach, 258supplement selection, 72
California Pyramid, 14Camellia sinensis , 377
Camembert, 356Cancer
biology, 74–75causes, 75nutrition connection, 74risk reduction, 75–77terminology, 73–74
Cancer prevention
broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220cabbage, 221carrot, 222cauliflower, 224cherry, 170collards, 230cress, 232grapefruit, 176lemon, 183radish, 253
Cane syrup, 402Canola oil, 393Cantaloupe, 189–190Cappuccino
description, 380milk content, 352
Capsicum annuum , 250–251
Capsicum frutescens , 250–251
Carambola, 168Caraway seeds, 369Carbohydrates
complex, 19–21simple sugars, 18–19sugar substitutes, 21–23
Cardamom, 369Cardiovascular disease
diabetes, 59physical activity, 66
502 IndexIndex   503
Carica papaya , 194
Carotenoids, 32, 34Carrot, 222Cashew nut, 336Cassava, 223Catfish, 314Cauliflower, 224Cayenne, 369Cebollin, 256Celeriac, 225Celery, 226Celery seed, 369Celiac disease, 286Cellulose, 20Cephalopods, 317Cereals, 80, 285–286, 448–451Cereza, 154Chantilly cream, 353Chayote, 227Cheddar-type cheeses, 356Chee-Chang, 266Cheeses
basics, 353–354blue and blue-veined, 356firm, 356–357fresh, 354–355hard, 356–357migraine link, 357nutrients, 470–473origins, 358processed, 357semisoft, 355–356soft, white-rind, 356
Chemicals, in fish, 312Cherimoya, 169Cherry, 170Chervil, 365Chestnut, 336Chichorium intybus , 228
Chicken, 292–293, 458–461Chickpeas, 326Chicory, 228Children, milk selection, 350Children’s Pyramid, 14Chili powder, 370Chinese apple, 201Chinese cabbage, 229Chinese date, 180Chinese gooseberry, 181Chinese grapefruit, 203Chinese jujube, 180Chinese water chestnut, 266
Chives, 365Chocolate, 403–405Cholesterol
coronary artery disease, 63–66dietary guidelines for Americans, 10as nutrient, 27–28
Chunk-style honey, 402Cider vinegar, 373Cilantro, 365Cinnamon, 370Citrofortunella mitis , 167
Citrullus lanatus , 189–190
Citrus aurantifolia , 184
Citrus aurantium L., 193
Citrus grandis , 203
Citrus limonia , 183
Citrus paradisi , 176
Citrus reticulata , 209
Citrus sinensis L., 193
Clam, 318–319Clarified butter, 391Clotted cream, 353Cloves, 370–371
Club soda, 378Coarse sugar, 400–401
Cochin ginger, 237Cocktail, as juice label, 383Cocoa, 404Coconut, 171Coconut oil, 393–394Cocos nucifera , 171
Cod, 312Coffee
bean decaffeination, 380milk additives, 352nutrients, 482–483types, 379–381
Colby, 357Colinabo, 242Collards, 230Colocasia esculenta L. Schott, 262
Comb honey, 402Common beans, 326, 466–467Common herbs
basil, 364bay leaf, 364–365chervil, 365chives, 365cilantro, 365dill, 365–366fennel, 366
lavender, 366lemon balm, 366–367lemon grass, 367marjoram, 367mint, 367–368oregano, 368parsley, 368rosemary, 368sage, 368sorrel, 368tarragon, 368thyme, 368
Common pear, 197Common spices
allspice, 369anise seeds, 369caraway seeds, 369cardamom, 369cayenne, 369celery seed, 369chili powder, 370cinnamon, 370cloves, 370–371cumin, 371curry, 371Fenugreek seeds, 372ginger, 372juniper berry, 372licorice root, 372mace and nutmeg, 372mustard, 372paprika, 372–373pepper, 373–374saffron, 374salt, 374–375sesame seeds, 375Szechuan peppercorns, 375turmeric, 375vanilla, 375
Complete proteins, 24Complex carbohydrates, 19–21Concentrated milk, 350–351Confectioner’s sugar, 400Constipation, nutrition needs, 44Cooking methods
food safety, 149meat, in cancer, 77recipes, 127–128
Cooking oils, 393–397Corn, 231, 273–275Corn oil, 394
Coronary artery disease
atherosclerosis, 61–62blood lipids, 62blood testing, 63–64medications, 66physical activity, 66risk factors, 64–66
Cottage cheese, 354Cottonseed oil, 394Crab, 319–320Cracked grains, 273Cracked wheat, 281Crackers, nutrients, 450–451Cranberry, 160–161, 165Cranberry beans, 327Cream, 351–353, 472–473Cream cheese, 354Crème fraîche, 353Cress, 232Cross-contamination, in food poisoning, 148Crushed red pepper, 369Cucumber, 233Cucumis melo , 189–190
Cucumis melo L.indorus , 189–190
Cucumis melo var. reticulatus , 189–190
Cucumis sativus , 233
Cucurbita maxima , 259–260
Cucurbita moschata , 259–260
Cucurbita pepo , 259–260
Cumin, 371Currant, 161, 165Curry, 371Custard apple, 169Cydonia oblonga , 204
Cynara scolymus , 213
D
Daily values, 30Dairy desserts, 359–361, 472–473Dairy foods
basics and storage, 345–348cheeses, 353–348, 470–473cream, 351–353, 472–473dried and concentrated milks, 350–351milk, 348–350, 472–475product serving size, 13–14sour cream, 351–353yogurt, 358–359, 474–475
Dark rye flour, 279DASH, seeDietary Approaches to Stop
Hypertension
Date, 172Daucus carota , 222
Decaffeination, coffee beans, 380Decorating sugar, 400–401Defrosting, in food safety, 148–149Deli meats, nutrients, 456–459De Materia Medica , 364
Desserts, 359–361, 472–473Devonshire cream, 353Dewberry, 159Diabetes mellitus
control, 60–61definition, 57–58diagnosis, 60long-term complications, 58–59prevention, 59type 1, 58type 2, 58
Diet
cancer risk, 75–77cholesterol reduction, 66combination, from DASH, 56fiber-rich, 20–21
Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension, 56Dietary fiber
breadfruit, 166cherimoya, 169kumquat, 182pear, 197
Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 8–10, 21Dietary protein, 24–25Dietary Reference Intakes
definition, 5–6minerals, 31, 424–425, 428–429vitamins, 30. 422–423, 426–427
Dill, 365–366Dioscorea alata , 267
Diospyros kaki , 198
Diospyros virginiana , 198
Distilled spirits, nutrients, 480–481Distilled water, 378Dolichos beans, 328, 466–467Dried milk, 350–351Drink
alcoholic, seeAlcoholic beverages
as juice label, 383
DRIs, seeDietary Reference Intakes
Duck, 294, 460–461Duckling, 294Durian, 173
Durio zibethinus Murr, 173
Durum, 280Durum flour, 287Dutch process cocoa, 404
E
EAR, seeEstimated Average Requirement
Edam, 355Eggplant, 234Egg products, 297Eggs, 296–297, 460–461Elderberry, 162, 165Eleocharis dulcis , 266
Eleocharis tuberosa , 266
“Empty calories,” sweeteners, 399–400Endosperm, grains, 269English teas, 382Enriched, 92Ergot, and rye, 280Eriobotrya japonica , 186
Eruca vesicaria sativa , 214
Eschalot, 256Espresso, 380Essential oils, 399Estimated Average Requirement, 6Estrogen deficiency, in osteoporosis, 68Estrogen replacement therapy, in osteo-
porosis, 69–70
Ethnic cuisine, meal planning, 86–88European gooseberry, 162European pear, 197Evaporated milk, 351Evening meal
makeover, 143–144, 147meal planning, 84–86sample menus, 96–123
Exercise
diabetes, 61hypertension, 55–56
Extra virgin olive oil, 395Eye disease, from diabetes, 58–59Eyes, hypertension effects, 54–55
F
Family Actinidiaceae, kiwi, 181Family Amaranthaceae, amaranth, 212Family Amaryllidaceae
garlic, 236
504 IndexIndex   505
leek, 243
onion, 247scallion, 256
Family Anacardiaceae, mango, 188Family Annonaceae, cherimoya, 169Family Apiaceae, parsley, 248Family Araceae, taro, 262Family Arecaceae, coconut, 171Family Asteraceae
lettuce, 244salsify, 255
Family Bombacaceae, durian, 173Family Bromeliaceae, pineapple, 199Family Cactaceae, prickly pear, 202Family Caprifoliaceae, elderberry, 162Family Caricaceae, papaya, 194Family Chenopodiaceae
beets, 217spinach, 258
Family Compositae
artichoke, 213chicory, 228Jerusalem artichoke, 239
Family Convolvulaceae, sweet potato, 261Family Cruciferae
arugula, 214broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220cabbage, 221cauliflower, 224Chinese cabbage, 229collards, 230cress, 232horseradish, 238kohlrabi, 242radish, 253rutabaga, 254turnip, 265
Family Cucurbitaceae
bitter melon, 218chayote, 227cucumber, 233melons, 189–190squash, 259–260
Family Cyperaceae, water chestnut, 266Family Dioscoreaceae, yam, 267Family Ebenaceae, persimmon, 198Family Ericaceae
blueberry, 159–160cranberry, 160–161
Family Euphorbiaceae, cassava, 223Family Fungi, 245
Family Graminaceae, bamboo, 216Family Gramineae, corn, 231Family history
coronary artery disease, 65hypertension, 54osteoporosis, 68
Family Laminariaceae, kelp, 241Family Lauraceae, avocado, 157Family Leguminosae
jicama, 240snap beans, 257tamarind, 208
Family Liliaceae, asparagus, 215Family Malpighiaceae, acerola, 154Family Malvaceae, okra, 246Family Moraceae
breadfruit, 166fig, 175jackfruit, 179mulberry, 163
Family Musaceae, banana, 158Family Myrtaceae
feijoa, 174guava, 178
Family Oleaceae, olives, 192Family Oxalidaceae, carambola, 168
Family Palmaceae
coconut, 171date, 172
Family Passifloraceae, passion fruit, 195Family Polygonaceae, rhubarb, 206Family Punicaceae, pomegranate, 201Family Rhamnaceae, jujube, 180Family Rosaceae
apple, 155apricot, 156blackberry, 159cherry, 170loquat, 186nectarine, 191peach, 196pear, 197plum, 200quince, 204raspberry, 163–164strawberry, 164
Family Rutaceae
calamondin, 167grapefruit, 176kumquat, 182lemon, 183
lime, 184orange, 193pummelo, 203tangerine, 209
Family Sapindaceae
longan, 185lychee, 187rambutan, 205
Family Sapotaceae, sapodilla, 207Family Saxifragaceae
currant, 161gooseberry, 162
Family Solanaceae
eggplant, 234peppers, 250–251potato, 252tomatillo, 263tomato, 264
Family Umbelliferae
carrot, 222celeriac, 225celery, 226fennel, 235parsnip, 249
Family Vitaceae, grapes, 177Family Zingiberaceae, ginger, 237Farina, 281Farinetta, 273Farmer's cheese, 354–355Fats
alternatives, 127basics, 389–390butter, 391dietary guidelines for Americans, 10lard, 392–393margarine, 392nutrients, 474–477nutrients and substitutes, 26–29serving size, 12–13vegetable shortening, 393
Fat-soluble vitamins, 31Fat substitutes, 28–29Fatty acids, 26–27Fava beans, 325–326FDA, seeU.S. Food and Drug
Administration
Feeding, toddlers, 42Feijoa, 174Feijoa sellowiana O., 174
Fennel, 235, 366Fenugreek seeds, 372
Fiber
artichoke, 213avocado, 157banana, 158carambola, 168carrot, 222categories, 19–21chicory leaves, 228collards, 230corn, 231date, 172fig, 175guava, 178jicama, 240kiwi, 181kohlrabi, raw, 242lemon, 183orange, 193parsnip, 249passion fruit, 195persimmon, 198prickly pear, 202prunes, 200sapodilla, 207squash, 259–260sweet potato, 261taro root, 262yam, 267
Ficus carica , 175
Fig, 166, 175Finfish, nutrients, 462–463Firm cheeses, 356–357Fish
basics, 310–312catfish, 314chemicals, 312cod, 312finfish, 462–463flat fish, 312flounder, 313fresh fish, 310frozen fish, 310halibut, 313higher-fat fish, 315–317lean fish, 312mackerel, 315moderate-fat fish, 313–315perch, 313polychlorinated biphenyls, 312round fish, 312salmon, 315–316
salted fish, 311smelt, 316smoked fish, 311striped bass, 313–314swordfish, 314trout, 316–317tuna, 314–315whole fish, 310
Fish fillets, 310Fish steaks, 3105 a Day for Better Health, 8Flaked barley, 272Flat breads, 283Flat fish, 312Flavored sugar, 401Flax, 275Flaxseed oil, 394Flounder, 313Flour
basics, 286–287as bread ingredient, 282definition, 273nutrients, 450–453
Foeniculum vulgare (dulce ), 235
Folate
artichoke, 213asparagus, 215beet, 217
bok choy, 229brussels sprouts, 220chicory leaves, 228collards, 230corn, 231cress, 232feijoa, 174lettuce, 244orange, 193parsnip, 249spinach, 258
Food additives, 90–91Food Guide Pyramid
categories, 11–14dietary guidelines for Americans, 9milk and dairy product placement, 345snacks, 84
Food labels, in meal planning, 88–90Food poisoning, from cross-contamination,
148
Food safety
botulism toxin in honey, 403tap water, 378
techniques for, 10, 148–149
Food serving, in food safety, 149Food sources, antioxidants, 32Fortified, definition, 92Fortified wines, 385Fortunella japonica , 182
Fortunella margarita , 182
Fragaria americana , 164
Fragaria vesca , 164
Freezer burn, meat, 299Freezing, in food safety, 149French bread, 284French press coffee, 380Fresh cheeses, 354–355Fresh fish, 310Fresh pork, 304"From concentrate," as juice label, 383Frozen dessert, nutrients, 472–473Frozen fish, 310Frozen yogurt, 361Fructose, 399Fruit beer, 386Fruits
acerola, 154apple, 155apricot, 156avocado, 157banana, 158berries, 159–165breadfruit, 166calamondin, 167carambola, 168cherimoya, 169cherry, 170coconut, 171date, 172dietary guidelines for Americans, 9–10durian, 173feijoa, 174fig, 175grapefruit, 176grapes, 177guava, 178jackfruit, 179jujube, 180kiwi, 181kumquat, 182lemon, 183lime, 184longan, 185
506 IndexIndex   507
loquat, 186
lychee, 187mango, 188melons, 189–190nectarine, 191nutrients, 434–438olives, 192orange, 193papaya, 194passion fruit, 195peach, 196pear, 197persimmon, 198pineapple, 199plum, 200pomegranate, 201prickly pear, 202pummelo, 203quince, 204rambutan, 205in recipes, 128rhubarb, 206sapodilla, 207serving size, 12–13tamarind, 208tangerine, 209
Fruit sugar, 401Functional foods, supplements as, 34–39
G
Game birds, 294–295Game meats, 309, 458–459Garbanzo beans, 326Garden cress, 232Garden rocket, 214Garlic, 236Gassiness, from beans, 327Gastropods, 317Genetically engineered foods, 92Germ
definition, 273grains, 269–270
Ginger, 237, 372Gingerroot, 372Ginkgo nut, 336–337Globe artichoke, 213Glucose, 309Glutathione, in asparagus, 215Gluten, 287, 393Goat cheeses, 355Golden syrup, 402
Goose, 295, 460–461Gooseberry, 162, 165Gorgonzola, 356Gouda, 355Gourmet oils, 398Goutberry, 159Grain flakes, 273Grain products
Asian noodles, 289breads, 282–285cereals, 285–286flour, 286–287pasta, 287–289
Grains
amaranth, 272barley, 272–273basics, 269–271buckwheat, 273corn, 273–275dietary guidelines for Americans, 9flax, 275millet, 276nutrients, 446–453oats, 276–277quinoa, 277in recipes, 128rice, 277–279rye, 279–280serving size, 12–13wheat, 280–281
wild rice, 282
Grain syrups, 402Granada, 201Granadilla, 195Granulated white sugar, 400Grapefruit, 176Grapes, 177Grape-seed oil, 397–398Great Northern beans, 328Great raifort, 238Green beans, 257Green pepper, 373Green tea, 382Grenadier, 201Groats, 281Grocery shopping, for healthful meals,
88–90
Ground beef substitutes, 301Growth of Plants , 364
Gruyère-type cheeses, 357Guava, 178
Gumbo, 246Gums, 20Guyava, 178
H
Half-and-half, 352Halibut, 313Ham, 304–305Hamburger, irradiated, 299Hand washing, in food safety, 148Hard cheese, 356Hard grating cheeses, 356Hard wheat, 280Hardening of the arteries, seeAtherosclerosis
Hare, 305–306Haricots, 257Hazelnut, 337–338Hazelnut oil, 398HCAs, seeHeterocyclic amines
HDL, seeHigh-density lipoproteins
Health, and alcohol, 387Health benefits, tea, 383Health claims, 93Healthful weight, in dietary guidelines for
Americans, 8–9
Health organizations, guidelines, 14–15Healthy People 2010, 6–8Heart
hypertension effects, 54–55as meat, 307–308
Heartburn, nutrition needs, 44Heart disease, prevention
carrot, 222grapes, 177
Heavy cream, 351Helianthus tuberosus , 239
Hemicellulose, 20Herbal supplements, 36–38Herbal teas, 382Herbs
basics, 363–364common, seeCommon herbs
medicinal uses, 364in recipes, 126
Heterocyclic amines, in cancer, 77Hibiscus esculentus , 246
High blood pressure
definition, 53–54effects on body, 54–55risk factors, 54
treatment, 55–57
High-density lipoproteins, cholesterol,
63–66
Higher-fat fish, 315–317High-fat foods, in cancer, 76–77High-protein foods
finfish, 462–463fish, 310–317legumes, 466–469meat, 298–309, 454–459nuts, 468–469poultry, 291–297, 458–461seeds, 468–469serving size, 13–14shellfish, 317–324, 464–465
High-sodium foods, in hypertension, 56Hominy, 276Honey, 401–402Honeydew, 189–190Hops, 386Horseradish, 238Hot red peppers, 250–251Hulled barley, 272Hyacinth bean, 329Hydrogenated fats, 27Hypertension, seeHigh blood pressure
I
Ice cream, 359–361Ice milk, 360Imitation cheeses, 356Imitation chocolate, 404
Indian date, 208
Indian fig, 202Indoles, in cabbage, 221Infants
honey danger, 403nutrition needs, 40–41
Infections, from diabetes, 59Ingredients, modification, 126–127Inquiry Into Plants , 364
Insoluble fiber, 20Instant coffee, 380Instant oatmeal, 277Instant tea, 382Intense sweeteners, 21–23Ipomoea batatas , 261
Iron
Jerusalem artichoke, 239spinach, 258
Irradiated foods
hamburger, 299preparation, 91–92
Isatin, in prunes, 200Isoflavones, 34Italian cress, 214
J
Jackfruit, 179Jakfruit, 179Jamaican ginger, 237Jamberry, 263Japanese medlar, 186Japanese persimmon, 198Japanese plum, 186Jarlsberg, 355Jerusalem artichoke, 239Jicama, 240Jugged hare, 306Juice, 383Jujube, 180Juniper berry, 372
K
Kaki, 198Kelp, 241Kidney beans, 327Kidneys
failure from diabetes, 59hypertension effects, 54–55meat, 308
Kiwi, 181Kohlrabi, 242Kosher salt, 374Kumquat, 182
L
Lablab, 329Lactobacillus acidophilus , 348
Lactobacillus bulgaricus , 358
Lactose, 399Lactose-free milk, 349Lactose intolerance, 347Lactose-reduced milk, 349Lactuca sativa , 244
Lady’s finger, 246Lager, 386Lamb, 301–303, 454–455
Laminaria , 241
Lard, 392–393Latte, milk content, 352Lavender, 366Laxatives, in prunes, 200LDL, seeLow-density lipoproteins
Lean fish, 312Leek, 243Legumes
Adzuki beans, 328–329alfalfa, 325basics, 324–325black beans, 326–327black-eyed peas, 329broad beans, 325–326chickpeas, 326common beans, 326cranberry beans, 327dolichos beans, 328kidney beans, 327lablab, 329lentil, 330lima beans, 330mung beans, 329–330nutrients, 466–469peanuts, 330–331peas, 332pinto beans, 327–328soybeans, 332–333white beans, 328
Lemon, 183Lemon balm, 366–367Lemon grass, 367Lentil, 330, 466–469
Lepidium sativum , 232
Lettuce, 244Licorice root, 372Lifestyle
coronary artery disease, 65–66osteoporosis, 68
Light beer, 386Light butter, 391Light cream, 351–352Light olive oil, 395Light whipping cream, 351Lignin, 20Lima beans, 330Limburger, 355Lime, 184Lingonberry, 160–161
508 IndexIndex   509
Linseed oil, 394
Liquid, as bread ingredient, 282Liquid honey, 402Liquid margarine, 392Liquid sugar, 404Litchi, 187Litchi chinensis Sonn., 187
Liver, 308Living yogurt cultures, 358Lobster, 320Longan, 185Long-grain rice, 278Loquat, 186Low-density lipoproteins, cholesterol,
63–66
Low-fat milk, 348Lunch, seeNoon meal
Luncheon meats, nutrients, 456–459Lychee, 187Lycopene, 32, 264Lycopersicon esculentum , 264
M
Macadamia nut, 338Macaroni, 287Mace, 372Mackerel, 315Macronutrients
carbohydrates, 18–23fats, 26–29protein, 23–26
Magnesium
beet greens, 217chicory, 228okra, 246prickly pear, 202spinach, 258
Maize, 273–275Malpighia glabra L., 154
Malpighia punicifolia L., 154
Malt liquor, 386Maltose, 399Malt vinegar, 373Malus pumila , 155
Malus sylvestris , 155
Manga, 188Mangifera indica L., 188
Mango, 188Mangot, 188Manihot aipi Phol, 223Manihot esculenta Crantz, 223
Manihot ultissima Phol, 223
Manilkara zapota , 207
Manioc, 223MAOIs, seeMonoamine oxidase inhibitors
Maple syrup, 402Margarine
coronary artery disease, 66types, 392
Marinades, food safety issues, 149Marjoram, 367Marrow beans, 328Ma-Tai, 266Ma Ti, 266May apple, 186Meal, 273Meal planning
breakfast, 80–81eat well, 79ethnic cuisine, 86–88grocery shopping, 88–90lunch, 81–83snack time, 83–84supper, 84–86
Meats
bacon, 305basics, 298–299beef, 299–301brain, 307buffalo, 301cooking and cancer, 77
fresh pork, 304
game meats, 309ham, 304–305heart, 307–308kidney, 308lamb, 301–303liver, 308nutrients, 454–459ostrich, 303pork, 303–304rabbit and hare, 305–306sausage, 308–309serving size, 12–13supper portion, 86USDA grades, 300veal, 306–307
Medicine
coronary artery disease, 66diabetes, 61herbs and spices as, 364hypertension, 57
osteoporosis, 69
Mediterranean Pyramid, 14Medium-grain rice, 278Melons, 189–190Menus
healthful, 128–129two-week period, 95–123
Mexican green tomato, 263Mexican potato, 240Mexican turnip, 240Micronutrients, vitamins and minerals, 
29–33
Migraines, cheese link, 357Milk
associated products, 346nutrients, 472–475processing, 346selection for children, 350types, 348–350
Milk allergy, 349Milk chocolate, 404Milk products, serving size, 12–13Millet, 276Minerals
as antioxidants, 31–33functions and sources, 432–433as micronutrients, 31recommended intakes for individuals,
424–425
supplements, 38–39tolerable upper intake levels, 
428–429
Mineral water, 378Mint, 367–368Miso, 333Moderate-fat fish, 313–315Molasses, 402Momordica charantia , 218
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors, 357Monounsaturated fat
avocado, 157olives, 192
Monounsaturated fatty acids, 26Monterey Jack, 357Morning sickness, nutrition needs, 44Morus , 163
Mountain radish, 238Mozzarella, 355Mulberry, 163, 165–166Mung bean, 329–330Mung bean noodles, 289
Musa paradisiaca L., 158
Mushroom, 245Muskmelon, 189–190Mussels, 320–321Mustard, 372Mustard seed oil, 398
N
Napa cabbage, 229National Institutes of Health, 15Native persimmon, 198Natural cocoa, 404Natural sweeteners, 23Navy beans, 328Nectarine, 191Nephelium lappaceum , 205
Nephelium longana , 185
Nerve damage, from diabetes, 59Niacin, in cooked mushrooms, 245Nondairy creamers, 352Nondairy desserts, 359Nonfat margarine, 392Nonfat milk, 348Non-nutritive sweeteners, 21–23Noodles, 287–289Noon meal
makeover, 136, 139–140
planning, 81–83
sample menus, 96–123
Nopal, 202Nopalitos, 202"Not from concentrate," as juice label, 383Nutmeg, 372NutraSweet, 22Nutrients
alcoholic beverages, 480–481berries, 165carbohydrates, 18–23cheese, 470–473cholesterol as, 27–28coffee, 482–483cream, 472–473fats, 26–29, 474–477finfish, 462–463on food labels, 88–90frozen dessert, 472–473fruits, 434–438grains, 446–453legumes, 466–469macronutrients, seeMacronutrients
meat, 454–459micronutrients, 29–33milk, 472–475nuts, 468–469phytochemicals as, 33–35plant oils, 476–477poultry, 458–461protein, 23–26saturated fats as, 26–27seeds, 468–469shellfish, 464–465soda, 482–483specialty oils, 476–477sweeteners, 478–479tea, 482–483upper limit, 6various claims, 92vegetables, 438–446water, 33yogurt, 474–475
Nutrition
adulthood, 43boosting in menu, 129breastfeeding, 43–45cancer connection, 74diabetes, 60–61hypertension, 57in grains, 270–271infancy, 40–41pregnancy, 43–45preschool years, 41school-age children, 42seniors, 45stage of life, 39–40teenage years, 43weight loss, 51–52
Nuts
almond, 334–335basics, 333–334beechnut, 335brazil nut, 335–336cashew nut, 336chestnut, 336ginkgo nut, 336–337hazelnut, 337–338macadamia nut, 338nutrients, 468–469pecan nut, 339pistachio nut, 339–340walnut, 341–342O
Oat bran, 277Oat flour, 277Oat groats, 276Oats, 276–277Obesity
behavior modification, 53definition, 47–48nutrition considerations, 51–52physical activity, 52–53risk factors, 48–50special situations, 51
Octopus, 321–322Oils
basics, 389–390cooking oils, 393–397plant oils, 476–477serving size, 12–13specialty oils, 397–399, 476–477
Okra, 246Old-fashioned rolled oats, 276–277Olea europaea , 192
Olestra, 28–29Olive oil, 394–395Olives, 192Omega-3 fatty acids, 27“100 percent juice,” as juice label, 383Onion, 247Oolong teas, 382Opuntia ficus-indica , 202
Orange, 193Oregano, 368Organic foods, 91Oriental persimmon, 198Osteoporosis
immobilization in, 69men, 70risk factors, 67–69risk reduction, 69–73
Ostrich, 303, 454–455Overweightedness vs. obesity, 48
Oyster plant, 255Oysters, 322
P
Pachyrhizus erosus , 240
Palmitate, in cereals, 285Palm kernel oil, 395–396Palm oil, 395–396Palm syrup, 402–403
510 IndexIndex   511
Papaya, 194
Paprika, 372–373Parsley, 248, 368Parsnip, 249Partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, 66Passiflora edulis , 195
Passion fruit, 195Pasta, 287–289, 452–453Pastinaca sativa L., 249
PCBs, seePolychlorinated biphenyls
Peach, 196Peanut oil, 396Peanuts, 330–331Pear, 197Pearled barley, 272Pearled grain, 273Peas, 332Pecan nut, 339Pectin, 20, 155, 399Peppers, 250–251, 373–374Perch, 313Persea americana , 157
Persimmon, 198Pesticides, in foods, 90Petroselinum crispum , 248
Phaseolus vulgaris , 257
Phoenix dactylifera L., 172
Phosphorus, in celeriac, 225Phyllostachys , 216
Physalis ixocarpa , 263
Physical activity
cardiovascular disease, 66dietary guidelines for Americans, 9weight loss, 52–53
Phytochemicals
broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220cabbage, 221carrot, 222cauliflower, 224cherry, 170collards, 230cress, 232garlic, 236grapes, 177nectarine, 191nutrient, 33–35onion, 247radish, 253
Pilsener, 386Pilsner, 386Pineapple, 199
Pineapple guava, 174Pink currant, 161Pinto beans, 327–328Pistachio nut, 339–340Plantain, 158Plant-based diet, 66Plant fibers, 20Plant oils, nutrients, 476–477Plants, as food source, 75–76Plum, 200Polished grains, 273Polishings, 273Polychlorinated biphenyls, in fish, 312Polyunsaturated fatty acids, 26Pomegranate, 201Pomelo, 203Pommelo, 203Poor man’s meat, 324Popcorn, 275Poppy seed oil, 398Pork, 303–304, 456–457Porter, 386Potassium
amaranth leaves, 212bamboo, 216banana, 158
breadfruit, 166
celeriac, 225chicory leaves, 228pomegranate, 201potato, 252rutabaga, 254squash, 259–260sweet potato, 261water chestnuts, 266yam, 267
Potato, 252Pot barley, 272Poultry
basics, 291–292chicken, 292–293duck, 294eggs, 296–297game birds, 294–295goose, 295nutrients, 458–461serving size, 13–14turkey, 296
Powdered milk, 350Pregnancy, nutrition needs, 43–45Preschool years, nutrition needs, 41
Prickly pear, 202Processed cheeses, 357Protein, 23–26Provolone, 355Prunes, 200Prunus armeniaca , 156
Prunus avium , 170
Prunus domestica , 200
Prunus persica , 196
Prunus persica var. nectarina, 191
Prunus salicina , 200
Psidium guajava , 178
Pummelo, 203Pumpernickel, 284Pumpkin seed oil, 398Punch, as juice label, 383Punica granatum , 201
Pure olive oil, 395Purified water, 378Pyrus communis , 197
Pyrus malus , 155
Pyrus pyrifolia , 197
Q
Quahog, 318Quick-cooking oats, 277Quince, 204Quinoa, 277
R
Rabbit, 305–306Race
hypertension, 54osteoporosis, 68
Radicchio, 228Radish, 253Rambutan, 205Raphanus sativus L., 253
Raspberry, 163–165RDA, see Recommended Dietary
Allowances
Recipes
Balsamic Roasted Chicken, 144Banana Raspberry Smoothie, 116Bruschetta Pomodoro, 115Chicken and Couscous Vegetable Salad,
100
Citrus Spinach Salad With HoneyYogurt Dressing, 139
Curried T una Salad With Pita T riangles,
136
Fried Chicken, 144Granola with Raisins, Apples, and
Cinnamon, 132
Grilled Ahi T una with Mango-
Pineapple Chutney, 111
Grilled Beef Kabobs, 119Grilled Chicken with Tomato and Corn
Salsa, 108
Grilled Steak, 147Mediterranean Pasta Salad, 123Minestrone Soup, 140modification, 125–128Pasta with Marinara Sauce and Grilled
Vegetables, 143
Poached Pears in Red Wine, 107Quick Pork with Pineapple-Orange-
Basil Sauce, 103
Rustic Wrap, 120Soft Tacos with Sautéed Vegetables and
Smoky Salsa, 99
Southwest Caesar Salad, 96Southwestern Scramble, 135Southwestern T urkey Pocket Fajita, 104Spaghetti with Meatballs, 143Spiced Muffins, 131Spinach Salad with Bacon and
Mushrooms, 139
Steak with Steamed Vegetables, Soba
Noodles, and Ginger Sauce, 147
T una Salad Sandwich, 136T urkish Chicken with Spiced Dates,
112
Recommended Dietary Allowances
definition, 65 a Day for Better Health, 8minerals, 424–425vitamins, 422–423
Red cole, 238Red currant, 161Red date, 180Reduced-fat cheeses, 356Reduced-fat margarine, 392Reduced-fat milk, 348Red wines, 384Refrigeration, in food safety, 149, 399Resistance training, in weight loss, 53Rheum, 206Rheum officinale , 206Rheum palmatum , 206
Rheum rhaponticum , 206
Rhubarb, 206Ribes grossularia , 162
Ribes hirtellum , 162
Ribes nigrum , 161
Ribes petraeum , 161
Ribes rubrum , 161
Ribes sativum , 161
Ribes ussuriense , 161
Ribes vulgare , 161
Riboflavin
beet greens, 217chicory, 228cooked mushrooms, 245spinach, 258
Rice, 277–279Rice milk, 350Rice noodles, 289Rice vinegar, 373Rice wine, 385Ricotta, 355Risk factors
coronary artery disease, 64–66hypertension, 54obesity, 48–50osteoporosis, 67–69
Rock salt, 374Rocket, 214Rolled grains, 273Romano beans, 257Roquefort, 356Roquette, 214Rosemary, 368Rosé wines, 384Roughage, 20Round fish, 312Round-grain rice, 277–278Rubus fructicosus , 159
Rubus idaeus , 163–164
Rubus strigosus , 163–164
Rubus villosus , 159
Rutabaga, 254Rye, 279–280Rye bread, 284Rye flour, 279
S
Saccharin, 22, 404Safflower oil, 396Safflower seed, 340
Saffron, 374Sage, 368Salads, in lunch meal planning, 82–83Salmon, 315–316Salsify, 255Salt
alternatives, 127food preparation, 10types, 374–375
Salted fish, 311Salted margarine, 392Sambucus canadensis , 162
Sambucus coerulea , 162
Sanding sugar, 401Sand pear, 197Sandwiches, in lunch meal planning,
82–83
Sapodilla, 207Saturated fats
coconut, 171coronary artery disease, 66nutrient, 26–27
Saturated fatty acids, 26–27Sausage, 308–309, 456–459Scallion, 256Scallops, 322–323School-age children, nutrition needs, 42Scotch barley, 272Seafood, serving size, 13–14Sea salt, 374Seasoned salt, 374Sechium edule , 227
Seeds
nutrients, 468–469safflower seed, 340sesame seed, 340, 375squash seed, 340–341sunflower seed, 341
Selenium, 32Self-rising flour, 287Seltzer water, 378Semisoft cheeses, 355–356Semisweet chocolate, 404Semolina, 287Seniors, nutrition needs, 45Serving size, food groups, 12–14Sesame oil, 398–399Sesame seeds, 340, 375Sex
coronary artery disease, 65
512 IndexIndex   513
hypertension, 54
osteoporosis, 67–68
Shaddock, 203Sharon’s fruit, 202Shellfish
abalone, 318basics, 317–318clam, 318–319crab, 319–320lobster, 320mussels, 320–321nutrients, 464–465octopus, 321–322oysters, 322scallops, 322–323shrimp, 323–324
Shell membranes, egg, 297Sherbet, 360–361Short-grain rice, 277–278Shrimp, 323–324Simple sugars, 18–19Skim milk, 348Smelt, 316Smetana, 353Smoke point, oil, 391Smoked fish, 311Smoking
hypertension, 56osteoporosis, 73
Snacks
meal planning, 83–84
sample menus, 96–123
Snap beans, 257Soda pop, 384, 482–483Soda water, 378Soft margarine, 392Soft wheat, 280Soft white-rind cheeses, 356Solanum melogena esculentum , 234
Solanum tuberosum L., 252
Soluble fiber, 20, 155Sorbet, 360–361Sorrel, 368Sour cream, 351–353Sourdough, 284–285Sour orange, 193Soy, 34Soybean milk, 333Soybean oil, 396–397Soybean sprouts, 333Soybeans, 332–333Soy flour, 333
Soy milk, 350Soy nuts, 333Soy products, 333Soy sauce, 333Sparkling water, 378Sparkling wine, 384–385Specialty oils, 397–399, 476–477Spices
basics, 363–364common, seeCommon spices
medicinal uses, 364recipes, 126
Spinach, 258Spinacia oleracea L., 258
Splenda, 23Sports drinks, 384Spring water, 378Sprouts, raw, 325Squash, 259–260Squash seed, 340–341Stage of life, nutrition
adulthood, 43breastfeeding, 43–45infancy, 40–41needs, 39–40pregnancy, 43–45
preschool years, 41
school-age children, 42senior, 45teenage, 43
Star apple, 168Starch, 19Starfruit, 168Steal-cut oats, 276Steel-cut grains, 273Stem turnip, 242Stinking rose, 236Stout, 386Strawberry, 164–165Strawberry tomato, 263Strength training, in weight loss, 53Streptococcus thermophilus , 358
String beans, 257Striped bass, 313–314Sucralose, 23, 404Sucrose, 399Sugar in the raw, 401Sugar substitutes, 21–23Sugars
alternatives, 127from beverages and food, 10
types, 400–401
Sunchoke, 239Sunflower artichoke, 239Sunflower oil, 397Sunflower seed, 341Sunnett, 22–23Supper, seeEvening meal
Supplements
calcium, 72cancer risk reduction, 76definition, 34–36herbal, 36–38usage, 38vitamins and minerals, 38–39
Sweet anise, 235Sweet cherry, 170Sweet corn, 231Sweetened condensed milk, 351Sweeteners
acceptable daily intakes, 21–23basics, 399–400chocolate, 403–405honey, 401–402nutrients, 478–479sugar, 400–401syrups, 402–403
Sweet orange, 193Sweet peppers, 250–251Sweet potato, 261Sweets, serving size, 12–13Swiss cheese, 357Swordfish, 314Syrups, 402–403Szechuan peppercorns, 375
T
Table salt, 374Table sugar, 18Tamarind, 208T amarindus indica , 208
Tangerine, 209Tapioca, 223Tap water, 378Taro, 262Tarragon, 368Tea, 381–383, 482–483Tea bag, invention, 382Teenage years, nutrition needs, 43Tempeh, 333Temperature, cooking, in cancer, 77
Terpenes, in cherry, 170Thiamin, in Jerusalem artichoke, 239Thyme, 368Tira, 214Toddlers, feeding tips, 42Tofu, 333Tolerable upper intake levels
minerals, 428–429vitamins, 426–427
Tomate verde, 263Tomatillo, 263Tomato, 264Tonic water, 378Topinambour, 239Toppings, 352Toxins, nutrition effects, 44T race minerals, 31Tragopogon porrifolius , 255
T rans fat, in coronary artery disease, 66T ree melon, 194T riglycerides, 26, 63T rout, 316–317Tsao, 180T una, 314–315T urkey, 296, 460–461T urkish coffee, 380T urmeric, 375
T urnip, 265
Type 1 diabetes, 58Type 2 diabetes, 58Tyramine, in cheese, 357
U
UL,seeUltra-heat treatment
UL,seeUpper Limit
Ultra-heat treatment, milk, 349Ultrapasteurized milk, 349Univalves, 317Unsalted butter, 391Unsalted margarine, 392Unsaturated fat, in coronary artery disease, 66Unsweetened chocolate, 404Upper intake levels, tolerable
minerals, 428–429vitamins, 426–427
Upper Limit, nutrients, 6USDA, seeU.S. Department of Agriculture
U.S. Department of Agriculture
Food Guide Pyramid, 11–14meat grades, 300
U.S. Food and Drug Administration
cheese regulation, 357fat substitutes, 28–29health claims, 93supplements, 36sweetener ADI, 21–23water regulation, 378
V
Vaccinium macrocarpon , 160–161
Vaccinium myrtillis , 159–160
Vaccinium oxycoccus , 160–161
Vanilla, 375Variety meat, nutrients, 456–457Vascular headaches, cheese link, 357Veal, 306–307, 456–457Vegetable oyster, 255Vegetable Pyramid, 14Vegetables
amaranth, 212artichoke, 213arugula, 214asparagus, 215bamboo, 216beets, 217bitter melon, 218broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220cabbage, 221carrot, 222cassava, 223cauliflower, 224celeriac, 225celery, 226chayote, 227chicory, 228Chinese cabbage, 229collards, 230corn, 231cress, 232cucumber, 233dietary guidelines for Americans, 9–10eggplant, 234fennel, 235garlic, 236ginger, 237horseradish, 238Jerusalem artichoke, 239jicama, 240kelp, 241
kohlrabi, 242leek, 243lettuce, 244mushroom, 245nutrients, 438–446okra, 246onion, 247parsley, 248parsnip, 249peppers, 250–251potato, 252radish, 253in recipes, 128rutabaga, 254salsify, 255scallion, 256serving size, 12–13snap beans, 257spinach, 258squash, 259–260sweet potato, 261taro, 262tomatillo, 263tomato, 264turnip, 265water chestnut, 266yam, 267
Vegetable shortening, 393Very low-density lipoproteins, 63Vinegar, 373Virgin olive oil, 395Vitamin A
acerola, 154amaranth leaves, 212apricot, 156arugula, 214beet greens, 217bok choy, 229broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220carambola, 168carrot, 222cherry, 170chicory leaves, 228collards, 230cress, 232guava, 178jackfruit, 179loquat, 186mango, 188
514 IndexIndex   515
nectarine, 191
passion fruit, 195peach, 196peppers, 250–251persimmon, 198prunes, 200spinach, 258squash, 259–260storage in body, 31sweet potato, 261tangerine, 209taro leaves, 262tomato, 264
Vitamin B
6
banana, 158chicory, 228fig, 175pomegranate, 201potato, 252spinach, 258sweet potato, 261taro root, 262water chestnuts, 266
Vitamin C
acerola, 154amaranth leaves, 212as antioxidant, 32apple, 155apricot, 156artichoke, 213asparagus, 215banana, 158beet greens, 217bitter melon, 218bok choy, 229breadfruit, 166broccoli, 219brussels sprouts, 220cabbage, 221carambola, 168cauliflower, 224celeriac, 225celery, 226chayote, 227cherimoya, 169cherry, 170chicory leaves, 228collards, 230corn, 231cress, 232durian, 173feijoa, 174
function, 30grapefruit, 176guava, 178jackfruit, 179jicama, 240jujube, 180kiwi, 181kohlrabi, 242kumquat, 182lemon, 183lettuce, 244lime, 184longan, 185lychee, 187mango, 188nectarine, 191okra, 246orange, 193papaya, 194parsley, 248parsnip, 249passion fruit, 195peach, 196pear, 197peppers, 250–251persimmon, 198
pineapple, 199
plum, 200pomegranate, 201potato, 252prickly pear, 202pummelo, 203quince, 204radish, 253rhubarb, 206rutabaga, 254sapodilla, 207scallion, 256snap beans, 257spinach, 258squash, 259–260sweet potato, 261tangerine, 209taro leaves, 262tomatillo, 263tomato, 264turnip, 265yam, 267
Vitamin D
osteoporosis, 70–73storage in body, 31
Vitamin E, 31–32Vitamin K, 31Vitamins
as antioxidants, 31–33functions and sources, 430–432recommended intakes for individuals,
422–423
supplements, 38–39tolerable upper intake levels, 426–427types, 29–31
Vitis, 177
VLDL, seeVery low-density lipoproteins
W
Walking, for weight loss, 52Walnut, 341–342Walnut oil, 399Water, 33, 378–379Water chestnut, 266Watercress, 232Watermelon, 189–190Water-soluble vitamins, 30–31Wax beans, 257Weight-bearing exercise, in osteoporosis,
73
Weight control
coronary artery disease, 65diabetes, 61
Weight loss
by behavior modification, 53hypertension, 55nutrition needs, 51–52obesity, 48physical activity, 52–53
Weight management programs, 51Weitzen, 386West Indian cherry, 154Wheat, 280–281Wheat beer, 386Wheat berries, 281Wheat flakes, 281Wheat germ oil, 398Wheat seed, 281Whipped butter, 391Whipped margarine, 392White beans, 328Which chocolate, 404White currant, 161White pepper, 214, 373–374White wines, 384
Whole fish, 310Whole-grain flour, 287Whole grains, 273Whole milk, 348Whole-wheat flour, 287Wild rice, 282Wine, 384–385, 480–481Wine vinegar, 373Women, bone mineral density, 69
X
Xiquima, 240
Y
Yam, 267Yam bean, 240Yeast, bread ingredient, 282–283Yellow snap beans, 257Yogurt
nutrients, 474–475preparation and serving, 358–359
Yolk, egg, 297Yuba, 333Yuca, 223
Z
Zea mays L., 231
Zinc, in napa cabbage, 229Zingiber officinale , 237
Ziziphus jujuba , 180516 Index