2Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookALL ABOUT CHINESE HOT POT
Chinese hot pot (huŏguō, 火锅) isn’t a single dish. It is both an occasion and a way of 
cooking. Think of it as the Chinese version of the classic American barbecue. Asking 
friends to your home for barbecue doesn’t tell them exactly what’s on the menu, but 
everyone will expect a grill, a fun social gathering, and most likely beer. Chinese hot pot 
is very much the same, but the cooking is done in a flavorful broth simmering at your 
table instead of over a grill.
At Chinese hot pot, everyone including kids cooks their own food, which ranges 
from  thinly sliced meats, Chinese greens, and seafood to mushrooms and noodles. It 
usually includes beer (at least for the adults), and everyone has their own take on the 
dipping sauce that they use to dress up their meal.
The broth imbues the ingredients you cook in it with flavor, so it’s foundational to any 
hot pot meal. Not only will you find seafood-, chicken-, beef-, pork-, or mutton-based 
broths, but you’ll also find vegetarian ones like mushroom- or herb-based broths. It is 
common to have two broths at one hot pot: one spicy, one not. The contrast follows the 
Chinese tenet of balance, yin and yang. In fact, you can purchase a hot pot pan that has 
a divider to serve the two broths in a single pot in the yin and yang shape.
In many hot pot restaurants, there are specially designed tables with built-in heat-
ing elements that will keep the broth simmering. The long menu may look intimidating, 
but it’s much simpler than it appears. Many restaurants offer pre-selected combinations 
of meats, vegetables, and noodles to make ordering easier, but you can also order à la 
carte. Either way, there are just three essential steps: choose a broth, choose the ingre-
dients, and make your dipping sauce at the sauce bar (think salad bar). At the sauce bar, 
you grab a bowl, choose a sauce base (or mix a few), and add aromatics. Then simply 
place some meat or vegetables into the simmering broth and allow them to cook. You’ll 
get a small personal strainer to help you add and remove the food from the hot broth. 
When the food is cooked, dip it in your sauce and enjoy. Repeat, and order more plates 
of ingredients as needed!3 Essential Chinese Hot PotOf course, good food knows no boundaries. Hot pot is also common in Taiwan, Korea, 
and Japan and across Southeast Asia, too. Thailand’s signature Tom Yum broth is both 
sour and spicy and is flavored with lemongrass, galangal, lime leaves, and bird’s-eye chile 
peppers. Japanese hot pot (called shabu shabu) is traditionally a very mild kelp-based 
broth. Besides the variation on broths, what really sets Chinese hot pot apart is the salad 
bar approach to the dipping sauces. I’ve seen dipping sauce bars in Beijing that had at 
least 20 different sauces, aromatics, oils, and other ingredients available for you to make 
your dipping sauce exactly how you like it!
Hot Pot History
There are countless stories about the origins of hot pot, many of which attribute it to 
Mongolian invaders cooking in their helmets. However, hot pot is Chinese in origin. 
Ancient bronze hot pot vessels dating to the Han Dynasty (202 BCE–220 CE) survive, 
which strongly suggests that the Chinese had been enjoying hot pot for over 1,000 years 
before the Mongol invasion of China.
Hot Pot Today
Hot pot is now enjoyed all over the Asia-Pacific region and beyond. China’s largest hot 
pot restaurant chains, Haidilao and Little Sheep (aka Happy Lamb Hot Pot in the United 
States), have locations throughout China and the Asia-Pacific region as well as locations 
in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Africa! Fondue, usually attributed to Swit-
zerland, is not the same as hot pot. Fondue comes from the French word fondre, which 
means “to melt.” Most commonly, fondue is melted cheese with wine or melted choc -
olate. The Swiss use their fondue pots to do Chinese hot pot, but they call it la fondue 
chinoise, or literally “Chinese fondue.”4Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSOCIALIZING OVER SOUP
Unlike other meals where food is cooked in the kitchen and everyone 
is served at the table together, hot pot meals involve cooking the food 
throughout the meal at the table and eating as the food becomes ready. 
This process necessarily creates some downtime, and that’s okay. Hot pot 
is a social occasion where you’re encouraged to sit back, relax, and enjoy 
the conversation while you cook your dinner, one small bite at a time. 
Pace yourself! While it may seem like you aren’t eating that much food, 
I’ve never known anyone to walk away from hot pot without a full belly.  
 
Regional Differences
China has numerous regional cuisines that have evolved over thousands of years. In this 
book, I’ll include flavor profiles from all over China. The broth varies, while your ingredi-
ents or the foods that you cook in the hot pot broth are mostly the same. Lamb-based 
broths are common, especially in northern China, but broths based on other meat or 
seafood can be found, including some distinctive regional specialties like the mushroom 
broth from Yunnan province or the sour fish broth of Guizhou province. The most pop-
ular broth across all of China is the Sichuan-style broth, which is known for its signature 
numbing and spicy hot qualities, called Ma La  (麻辣). The city of Chongqing, with about 
16 million people in Sichuan province, is the hot pot capital of the planet, with a hot pot 
restaurant for every 607 residents! For comparison, New York City has a Starbucks for 
every 35,778 residents.5 Essential Chinese Hot PotMOST POPULAR HOT POT BROTHS
Sichuan Red Ma La Broth (page 38):
Often served in a split pot with another mild, non-spicy broth. Originally 
from Sichuan province, it is popular all over China.
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth (page 39):
A mild broth that is frequently paired with a spicy Sichuan Red Ma La Broth.
Tomato Broth (page 62):
Tomato broth is a flavorful vegan broth that is sometimes also made with 
chicken or pork broth. It’s popular all over China.
Mandarin Lamb Broth (page 49):
A simple mild broth made from lamb that is popular in northern and 
 western China.
Yunnan Mushroom Broth (page 46):
An earthy, flavorful broth. Yunnan province is famous for its wild mush -
rooms. Mushroom broth is available and popular all over China, but in 
Yunnan province, you will find unique flavors from wild mushrooms only 
found and available locally.  7 Essential Chinese Hot PotMAKING CHINESE HOT 
POT AT HOME
Hosting hot pot at home can be an easy way to feed a large group. It requires hot pot 
equipment, some organization, and just a little bit of prep work. In this section, you’ll get 
an overview of the essential hot pot equipment and how to set it all up.
Choosing a Hot Pot Setup
To make hot pot, you need a stand-alone heat source and a pot unless you choose an 
option with a pot built in. Here are some ways to set up a hot pot at home:
COUNTERTOP BURNERS  
Countertop burners have a heating ele-
ment like a regular stove. You’ll find electric 
radiant heat coils, glass-top infrared, and 
cast-iron plate burners as well as induction 
and butane (gas) burner styles. Whichever 
you choose, it should be large enough that 
your hot pot pan does not extend over the 
controls. (You don’t want to burn yourself 
trying to adjust the temperature.) Elec -
tric models should have automatic shutoff 
safety features and clear indicators when 
they are powered on. Quality countertop 
burners are readily available in all styles at 
the $35 to $85 range.ELECTRIC RADIANT HEAT: Often called hot 
plates, these produce enough heat for 
hot pot, unlike a warming plate. An elec -
tric burner should be rated 1200+ watts to 
easily boil broth. Infrared burners are the 
most efficient, can change temperature 
quickly, and are the easiest to clean.
INDUCTION BURNERS: More efficient than 
radiant heat types, these use electro-
magnetic induction to heat the pan directly. 
They don’t heat your room nearly as much 
as all other countertop burner styles, which 
is beneficial if you live in a warm climate. If 
you choose an induction burner, remember 
that your cooking pot must be magnetic. A 
magnet should stick firmly to the pot.8Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookBUTANE BURNERS: Portable butane stoves 
are light and easy to situate on any table 
anywhere since they lack a power cord. 
There is no trip hazard, either! They provide 
quick and flexible temperature control, but 
they can noticeably heat your room. Plus, 
you must purchase consumable butane 
fuel cans. A can costs about $2 to $3 and 
lasts about 3 to 4 hours.
HOT POT PANS 
If you use a countertop burner, you’ll need 
a separate hot pot pan. Generally, a pot 
should be wide and shallow as opposed 
to tall and deep so that you can see into 
it while seated and you won’t lose food 
at  the bottom of the pot. Options range 
from $20 to $60, but you  may already 
have the perfect pot in your kitchen.
SPLIT OR SINGLE POT: Unlike a single pot 
that cooks only one broth, a split pot lets 
you cook with two broths (usually one spicy, 
one not). Split versions are available in 
either soldered or cast. The soldering often 
leaves markings on the outside of the pan 
that some people don’t care for. These 
can be prone to leaking between the two 
broths and rust at the solder points. A cast 
pan is one solid piece, usually made from aluminum with a nonstick coating. These 
won’t leak or rust, but make sure they are 
perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA)-free.
WESTERN-STYLE COOKING POTS: Whether  
you are purchasing a new pot or look -
ing at  your current cookware, look for a 
pot  that is 10 to 14 inches in diameter 
and 21/2 to 4 inches in height with a 4- to 
5-quart capacity.
ALL-IN-ONE HOT POTS
All-in-one hot pots are appliances with 
an integrated heating element and pot, 
which means there’s no need for a sepa-
rate pot. Some are designed specifically 
for hot pot. Other usable options may be 
called a combo cooker.
ELECTRIC HOT POT: These all-in-one appli-
ances ($30 to $130) are specifically 
designed for hot pot and are available as 
a single-broth cooking pot or split. Some 
include a grill component for Korean bar -
becue. Make sure that the cooking vessel 
detaches from the electric heating ele-
ment for easy cleaning.
CHARCOAL HOT POT: You can still find and 
purchase hot pots made in the traditional 9 Essential Chinese Hot Potstyle, but they are more expensive ($125 to 
$300), and I would only use them outdoors. 
Also, make sure to place them on a 
heat-proof surface just in case hot coals 
fall onto the base plate.
FONDUE POT: Designed for cheese or choc -
olate fondue, electric fondue pots can 
work. Look for “broth fondue” or “la fondue 
chinoise” on the packaging or product 
descriptions. Most fondue pots are smaller 
(1 to 2 quarts) than most hot pot appli-
ances (3 to 6 quarts). If you are planning 
to cook for more than two people, then I’d 
recommend a different setup.INSTANT POT OR MULTI-COOKER: A functional 
option, but not recommended because 
most common electric pressure cookers 
($70 to $170) have tall sides and a deep 
cooking pot. You have to rise from your 
chair to see inside, and that’s awkward 
and tiring! Temperature control can be 
more challenging, too.
SLOW  COOKER: Not recommended because 
slow cookers typically only have two set-
tings, low and high, making temperature 
control difficult.
Getting the Most Out of Your Hot Pot
To make your hot pot setup last, follow the manufacturer’s instructions for cleaning and 
care. To get the most out of it, remember that while not all fondue pots can hot pot, 
all hot pots can fondue! They also work well for other large family gatherings like Thanks -
giving when you need to keep food warm on a buffet.
Other Essential Equipment
BOWLS: A small rice bowl is all you really 
need. It should be large enough to mix 
your  dipping sauce in and dip your food  into but small enough to hold in 
your hand.
CHOPSTICKS: The traditional eating utensil 
in most East Asian cultures, they make it 10Essential Chinese Hot Pot Cookbookeasier than a fork to pluck a morsel of food 
from the hot pot. I recommend bamboo 
or wood chopsticks over plastic or metal. 
Plastic can melt if you touch a hot surface, 
and metal can get hot enough to burn 
your mouth.
HOT POT STRAINERS: Sometimes called 
spider strainers, these are made especially 
for hot pot and have a long handle with a 
small basket. Use them to lower ingredi-
ents into the hot pot to cook in the basket 
rather than dropping in ingredients and 
splashing hot broth.
KNIFE AND CUTTING BOARD: You shouldn’t  
need these at the table since all of 
the ingredients should be pre-cut into 
bite-size servings. If your friends or family 
will be helping prepare the ingredients, 
having extra knives and boards is helpful! 
If you have young kids, you might even 
consider getting a plastic vegetable knife. 
They are available for under $10 and can easily cut greens like Chinese cabbage or 
bok choy.
LADLES: A ladle will help you serve the 
broth when eaten as a soup. You only 
need one for each hot pot at the table.
PLATES: Table space can be at a pre-
mium, so use small plates instead of large 
dinner plates.
SLOTTED SPOONS: Some hot pots will come 
with personal-size slotted spoons to help 
you retrieve ingredients from the broth. 
Typically, their shape doesn’t hold on to 
ingredients like a hot pot strainer.
TONGS: Tongs can help retrieve cooked 
foods like noodles. They can also trans -
fer raw meat and seafood to the hot pot. 
Keep one pair for each plate so there is 
no cross-contamination. Mini tongs, ice 
tongs, or sugar cube tongs work well.
Nice-to-Haves
A lid for your hot pot decreases the time it takes to bring the broth to a boil. Baby spoons 
are great for the sauce bar. They make it easy to add small amounts of ingredients.11 Essential Chinese Hot PotSETTING UP AND USING 
YOUR HOT POT
Since you will be cooking at the table, you want to make sure that your setup is safe and 
easy to use. For electric hot pots, arrange the cord so that it isn’t a trip hazard. If you 
have small children who are likely to get up and wander during the meal, this is espe-
cially important. For butane burners, make sure your room is well ventilated.
SETTING THE TABLE
Set up a sauce and beverage bar on a 
separate table or counter. Bowls and 
glasses can be here. The first order of busi-
ness for your guests is to get a bowl and 
mix their sauce. They can get a drink, too, 
and then be seated.
KEEP THE MEAT AND  
VEGGIES SEPARATE
As you prep the ingredients before the 
meal, arrange the meats and vegeta-
bles on separate plates to prevent any 
cross-contamination. Also, keep plates of 
raw meats and seafood covered in plas -
tic wrap and refrigerate until just before 
the meal.
PAY ATTENTION TO COOKING TIME
Different foods take different amounts of 
time to cook, and some foods don’t do 
as well when overcooked as others. See chapter 2 (page 17) for more on cooking 
times for each ingredient.
ADJUSTING THE HEAT
As you add ingredients to your hot pot, the 
temperature will naturally drop as heat is 
absorbed by the ingredients. If you notice 
that the broth has stopped simmering, 
you can turn up the heat a little to help 
the broth return to a simmer faster. If the 
broth comes to a rolling boil, turn the heat 
down so that it isn’t splashing or spitting 
hot broth and making a mess, or worse, 
burning someone.
ADD A LITTLE AT A TIME
Add only those ingredients that you are 
ready to eat. You don’t want to overcrowd 
the hot pot and drop the temperature 
too much. You’ll be surprised how easy it 
is for your eyes to be hungrier than your 
stomach!12Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHOT POT FAQ
Q: Can you drink the broth?
A: It depends on the broth. The hot, spicy varieties are not typically 
eaten as soup. It’s totally up to you! I like tasting the broth as it 
changes flavor throughout a meal.
Q: How much sauce should I use?
A: One of the best parts of Chinese hot pot is that you are in control of 
your sauce! Use as much or as little as you like.
Q: Is it okay to mix the sauces?
A: Yes, go for it! In chapter 4, I’ll show you how to make some classic dip -
ping sauces and sauce bases, but feel free to make your own. At many 
hot pot restaurants, the sauce bar has dozens of ingredients to mix 
and match to create your secret sauce.
Q: What if the broth gets low?
A: The broth recipes in chapter 3 are usually enough for four to six 
people. When you start your hot pot meal, you won’t use all the 
broth. I’ve anticipated that you will need to add more broth as the 
meal progresses, so you’ll want to keep the extra broth warming on 
the stove. If you run out completely, you can add hot water.13 Essential Chinese Hot PotQ: How do I know when ingredients are cooked through?
A: The time it takes varies depending on the ingredient. More specifics 
are in chapter 2, but generally, meatballs, fish balls, and dumplings 
tend to float when they are cooked. If you have shaved or very 
thinly cut meats, those require only 10 to 15 seconds of cooking. 
Some ingredients like certain vegetables are fine to eat without too 
much cooking, so you are mostly warming them up to taste.
Q: Is there hot pot etiquette or a special order?
A: Yes and no. Here are some general guidelines, but with friends and 
family, there are no rules other than food safety rules!
• For raw meat, use the tongs, not your chopsticks. And don’t mix 
the tongs—the tongs with the chicken are for the chicken!
• Don’t steal someone else’s foods from the hot pot, but do help 
eat orphaned and lost food found loose in the pot!
• Add ingredients to simmering broth. Wait if the broth is not 
boiling.
• Before adding more broth or water, ask if anyone wants some 
broth first, since the flavor will change with the addition.
• In general, start with ingredients that take longer to cook like 
root vegetables. Then move on to meats and other vegetables. 
Noodles often come later.
• Avoid leafy green vegetables in a hot, spicy broth. They pick up 
a lot of the hot oil and get really spicy because they have so 
much surface area.14Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookENTERTAINING WITH HOT POT
Whether it’s just your immediate family or a group of friends, hot pot should be an easy 
meal. Except for the broth, there is very little cooking to be done beforehand. You can 
even enlist your friends to help chop and prep plates of ingredients before the meal 
begins! If you are pressed for time, you can purchase pre-made broth spice packets in a 
variety of flavors online or at a local Asian market. Just add water!
Setting Up for Your Hot Pot Party
Most hot pots are large enough to support eight diners. However, eight diners likely can’t 
sit at a table and all reach the hot pot. If that’s the case, you need more than one hot 
pot. Everyone should be able to reach the hot pot from their seat! And if you need more 
than one hot pot, you also need more than one of each ingredient plate.
I would recommend setting up a separate sauce and beverage station in the kitchen 
or a sideboard. As with the ingredients on the table, if you have lots of options for making 
sauces for your guests, make sure each bowl or jar has a dedicated spoon.
If you are feeling stressed out, take a deep breath and delegate! Hot pot is a group 
activity. Everyone can help with the prep work. Remember, the only advanced cooking 
that you’re likely to do is creating the broth, and that can be done a day or more ahead 
of time.
Have Fun!
By now, I hope you’ve got an idea about the equipment and the basic setup. While there 
are lots of options, remember that you’re basically boiling water. In the next chapter, 
we’ll cover everything you need to know to stock up on hot pot ingredients.17CHAPTER TWO
Ingredients for 
Chinese Hot Pot
In this chapter, I’ll help you find and prepare  
some of the most popular hot pot ingredients 
along with providing guidance on how long to 
cook them. Some ingredients may be harder 
to find than others, but most are common 
ingredients that you eat regularly.18Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookWHERE AND HOW TO SHOP
If you don’t live near an Asian grocery store, not to worry! You can do a hot pot meal with 
ingredients found entirely in a conventional grocery store. If you are hoping to re-create 
more authentic flavors, though, access to an Asian grocery or online specialty stores 
will help.
When shopping in an Asian grocery store, you will find the English labels on packag-
ing frequently lack detail or accuracy. I’ve included the Chinese characters for certain 
ingredients to help you match them to what you find in a store. See the Resources on 
page 127 for more information on where to find ingredients.
If You Don’ t Have Easy Access to 
an Asian Grocery Store . . .
Try natural foods stores, which sometimes stock a surprising number of Asian sauces, 
condiments, and fermented foods. Farmers’ markets tend to have a better selection of 
mushrooms and Asian vegetables.
Finding ingredients for broths and sauces can be more challenging. Fortunately, the 
Internet has made it easier to access ingredients from all corners of the planet. Here are 
some shelf-stable ingredients that might be easier to buy online or via Amazon:
 →Sichuan broad bean chili paste (Píxiàn dòubàn jiàng, 郫县豆瓣酱)
 →Red and green Sichuan peppercorns
 →Sa cha sauce (sometimes spelled “sha cha,” shā chá jiàng, 沙茶酱)
 →Sichuan dried chili flakes
 →Dried shiitake mushrooms
 →Dried Chinese red dates
 →Red fermented bean curd (hóng fŭrŭ, 紅腐乳)19 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotSTARTING WITH THE BROTH
Hot pot broth is one of the few things that you’ll need to prepare in advance. While 
stocks are made from bones and broths are made from meat and/or vegetables, for 
simplicity, I’ll use the term broth to refer to both in this book. Here are some different 
options for preparing hot pot broths.
Powdered Broth and Seasoning Packets
You can find pre-packaged hot pot broth mixes online or at Asian grocery stores. These 
are helpful if you want to try out a new flavor before investing in new ingredients that 
you may not use again. Like canned soup, you simply add water according to the pack -
age instructions. Some of the most popular hot pot broth mixes are made by Lee Kum 
Kee, Haidilao, Little Sheep, and Baijia.
You can also find pre-made broth in cans, concentrates, and bouillon cubes or 
powder. I like Better Than Bouillon’s concentrates. They last a long time in the refriger -
ator, and you can easily adjust the salt and intensity of the broth by varying how much 
concentrate you use.
Fish- or Meat-Based Broth
Meat broths can be made from bones, including discarded bones from a roast, so the  
next time you eat a rotisserie chicken or cook a bone-in roast of some sort, freeze the  
bones in a zip-top bag for making broth later. When starting with uncooked bones, the  
traditional process includes pre-soaking, blanching, browning, and then a long simmer. 
Fish and seafood bones don’t need pre-soaking, and they don’t require as long of 
a simmer.20Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookVegetarian and Vegan Broths
Most vegetable scraps can be used to make a broth. While it is traditional in Western 
cooking to avoid using cruciferous vegetables like cabbage or broccoli in broth since 
they may add bitter notes, in some hot pot broths, bitterness is part of the goal. If you 
don’t like bitterness, simply serve these vegetables on the table to cook with and not as 
a broth-flavoring agent. Vegetable broths tend to be faster to make than meat broths.
Adjusting Seasoning and Flavoring
Many Chinese recipes are based on fermented condiments, like fermented bean curd 
and Sichuan broad bean chili paste, which often bring a salty and funky flavor. Anchovy 
paste, tomato paste, and Worcestershire sauce are good substitutes when you need an 
umami boost. If you know you are sensitive to spicy, sour, or salty foods, start with less. 
You can always add more spice, but taking it away isn’t so easy!
Keep It Spicy (or Don’ t)
Most of the heat in spicy hot pot broths comes from dried chile peppers, common  
in Sichuan-style Ma La broth. For an authentic taste, buy dried lantern (dēnglóng 
làjiāo, 灯笼辣椒), facing heaven (cháotiān làjiāo, 朝天辣椒), or Sichuan (èr jīngtiáo làjiāo,  
二荆条辣椒) chiles. If you can’t find Chinese varieties, you can use Mexican variet-
ies like habanero, chiles de arbol, or cayenne. The Ma La broths also have a unique 
mouth-numbing quality from the Sichuan peppercorns. You’ll find a handful of spicy rec -
ipes in this book, but there are many other milder recipes that are just as flavorful. Use 
split pots to serve both spicy and non-spicy broth at the table to give guests a break from 
the heat. You can also use a split pot to have a vegetarian and non-vegetarian broth to 
accommodate dietary needs and preferences. Be mindful when cooking leafy greens 
and blocks of tofu in the spicy broth since they get saturated with spicy oil, making them 
spicier than other ingredients.21 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotSAUCES AND VINEGARS
The sauce for your hot pot is key, and you get to make your own! Most of the pre-made 
sauces you find in an Asian grocery store are not used on their own but form the basis of 
your sauce. In chapter 4, you’ll find some classic sauce combinations and a couple of my 
personal favorites to help you get started. Here are some of the common sauce bases 
and condiments:
CHINESE SESAME PASTE:  Made from ground 
toasted sesame seeds, Chinese sesame 
paste (zhīmajiàng, 芝麻酱) comes in jars 
that have a thick layer of oil on top. Make 
sure to stir it in like you do with peanut 
butter. You can substitute tahini with 
some adjustments (see page 68).
HOISIN SAUCE: Commonly thought of as a 
Chinese barbecue sauce, it adds a sweet, 
tangy flavor.
RICE VINEGAR AND CHINESE BLACK  VINEGAR:  
Rice vinegar is a little sweeter and less 
acidic than plain white vinegar. Avoid 
seasoned rice vinegar, as it has both salt 
and sugar in it. Chinese black vinegar is as 
dark as soy sauce, is made from fermented 
black sticky rice, and has a more earthy, 
malty flavor. Chinese people tend to use 
black vinegar more frequently for dipping sauces, and the most popular among 
them is Zhenjiang (or “Chinkiang”) vinegar.
SA CHA SAUCE: Although often labeled 
“barbecue sauce,” sa cha sauce is nothing 
like an American barbecue sauce. Made 
from brill fish and dried shrimp, it is a pop-
ular base for hot pot dipping sauce.
SOY SAUCE: The most commonly known 
Chinese sauce. For your dipping sauces, 
regular soy sauce (often referred to as 
light soy sauce) is a good place to start 
as a base.
TOASTED SESAME OIL: Deeply fragrant, 
toasted sesame oil is heavily used in Sich-
uan province as the basis of a dipping 
sauce. Since the spicy flavor compounds 
in chile peppers are oil-soluble, sesame oil 
helps absorb the heat.
The black vinegar, sesame paste, and sa cha sauce will most likely require a trip to an 
Asian grocery or an online purchase.22Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookINGREDIENTS
In this section, you’ll get an overview of ingredients that can be cooked in the hot pot 
broth. For every ingredient, you’ll find helpful information, like about how long it takes to 
cook in the hot pot and how to prepare it.
Tofu and Soy
Tofu has a mild flavor on its own, so it 
takes on flavor well from both the broth 
and your dipping sauce. You’ll find most of 
these ingredients in an Asian grocery store.
TOFU BLOCKS
For hot pot, extra-firm and firm tofu are 
best, as they hold their shape.
COOK TIME: 3 to 4 minutes
TO PREP: Drain and cut into 3/4- to 1-inch 
cubes. You can also freeze, thaw, and 
press tofu blocks before cutting. This will 
improve the tofu’s ability to soak up flavor 
from the broth and sauces.
TOFU SKIN
Tofu skin has a slightly chewy texture and 
neutral flavor. Look for fresh in the refriger -
ator or freezer sections; it is also available 
dried. Sometimes you can also find tofu 
skin that has been deep fried into crispy 
square chips.COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes
TO PREP: If using fresh, simply cut into 
bite-size pieces or noodles. Dried tofu 
needs to soak briefly in water to rehydrate 
it before cutting. Deep-fried versions 
require no preparation.
BEAN CURD STICK
These are packaged dried and found in a 
center aisle of an Asian grocery. Once rehy -
drated, they have a slightly chewy texture  
and neutral taste, but the crinkly texture  
traps flavors from broth and sauce.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes
TO PREP: Pre-soak for 8 to 10 hours in cold 
water; then cut into 2-inch pieces.
23 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotTOFU KNOTS
Look for these packaged dried in a center 
aisle of an Asian grocery.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: Pre-soak for 20 minutes in 
room-temperature water.
FRIED BEAN CURD
Sometimes labeled as soy puffs, these are 
light and airy with a bit of chew and can 
be found in the refrigerator section. No 
prep needed.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes
Noodles
Noodles are added to the hot pot late 
in the meal so the noodles cook in the 
broth after it has been flavored with all 
the meats and vegetables. For hot pot, 
stick with lo mein noodles since chow mein noodles are intended to be stir-fried. 
Choose your desired thickness and type of 
starch. Most types are sold fresh as well as 
dried, like spaghetti.
LO MEIN
A wheat noodle made both with and 
without egg. Shapes range from very thin 
to wide, flat noodles.
COOK TIME: 3 to 4 minutes (fresh) and  
6 to 7 minutes (dried)
TO PREP: If frozen, defrost in the refrigera-
tor for 4 to 6 hours; otherwise, none.
WONTON NOODLES
A wheat noodle that is made from the 
same dough as wonton wrappers. Usually 
found fresh or frozen, but not dried.
COOK TIME: 3 to 4 minutes
TO PREP: If frozen, defrost in the refrigera-
tor for 4 to 6 hours; otherwise, none.
24Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookRAMEN
They have a springy, chewier texture. You 
can discard the powdered soup mix. No 
prep needed.
COOK TIME: 4 to 5 minutes
RICE NOODLES
Most commonly sold dried, rice noodles 
are also available in sizes ranging from 
very thin noodles to wide, flat noodles. 
They are good if you are avoiding gluten.
COOK TIME: 2 to 4 minutes
TO PREP: Follow package instructions. 
In general, pre-soak the noodles in hot water for 30 minutes or parboil them for 
1 minute; then drain.
MUNG BEAN NOODLES
A very thin, translucent noodle with a slip-
pery texture. They’re often called glass 
noodles.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes
TO PREP: Pre-soak in warm water until pli-
able for 15 to 20 minutes.
TOFU NOODLES
A noodle cut from thick tofu skin. Sold 
fresh or frozen. No prep needed.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes
SHOULD I MAKE MY OWN NOODLES?
Making noodles isn’t as hard as it sounds, but it can be time-consuming. 
If you enjoy the process and you have the time, homemade noodles like 
Handmade Lo Mein Noodles (page 80) will always taste better than dried. 
You can also freeze the noodles, and they will cook up fine another day. 
With some planning, you can have homemade noodles with your hot pot! 
Now many American grocery stores also stock fresh Italian pasta. While not 
exactly the same as Chinese noodles, they are a good substitute. If you can 
find only instant ramen noodles, then use them. They are a perfectly good 
noodle for hot pot.25 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotLeafy and Cruciferous 
Vegetables
Any vegetable with a robust stem and 
leaves, like chard, collard greens, and 
kale, works well for hot pot. Here are veg-
etables traditionally enjoyed with hot pot.
CHINESE CABBAGE
Also referred to as Napa cabbage.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes for the leafy 
ends; 2 to 3 minutes for the stalk
TO PREP: Separate the leaves; then chop 
into 1-inch strips across the stalk.
BOK CHOY
Bok choy has a neutral to slightly bitter 
flavor, and the thick stalks provide a great crunch. Baby bok choy and dwarf 
bok choy have a sweeter flavor and are 
more tender.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes for the leafy 
parts; 2 to 3 minutes for thick stalks and 
dwarf bok choy
TO PREP: Separate the leaves of bok choy 
and baby bok choy; then chop into 1-inch 
strips across the stalk. Quarter the dwarf 
bok choy lengthwise.
CHINESE BROCCOLI
Long green stems with large leaves and 
sometimes with small florets and tiny 
yellow flowers, Chinese broccoli has a mild 
sweet flavor.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes for the leafy 
ends; 2 to 3 minutes for the stems
TO PREP: Cut into 2-inch pieces.
26Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookCHOY SUM
With long green stems and large leaves, 
choy sum has a slightly sweet flavor and a 
texture like bok choy.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes for the leafy 
ends; 2 to 3 minutes for the stems
TO PREP: Cut into 1-inch pieces.
TATSOI
The dark green crinkled leaves of tatsoi 
have a pleasant, sweet flavor.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes for the leafy 
ends; 2 to 3 minutes for the stems
TO PREP: Trim the leaves from the stalk. 
Cut stalks into 1- to 2-inch pieces.
SPINACH
Buy mature spinach, often sold in bunches. 
The baby spinach leaves that are sold for 
salad won’t hold up to boiling.
COOK TIME: 10 to 20 seconds
TO PREP: Trim the tips of the stalks. Wash 
and dry thoroughly to remove grit.
Mushrooms
Available fresh and dried, mushrooms 
add a meaty, earthy flavor to any hot 
pot. Dried mushrooms tend to have a more pronounced flavor with a chew -
ier texture than fresh. Rehydrate dried 
mushrooms by soaking them in hot water 
for 10 to 30 minutes. If using fresh, look 
for dry, plump mushrooms that are not 
wilted, wet, or slimy.
CHINESE BLACK OR SHIITAKE
These mushrooms are common in Chinese 
cuisine. They have a savory, earthy flavor.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes (dried); 3 to 
4 minutes (fresh)
TO PREP: Trim the woody stems.
ENOKI
With long, thin white stalks and small white 
caps, enoki mushrooms have a delightful 
crunch and a flavor reminiscent of lobster 
or shrimp. Fresh is better than dried.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: Trim the ends of the stalks and 
separate into small clusters by hand.
SHIMEJI (HON-SHIMEJI)
Also called beech mushrooms, shimeji 
have white stalks and small brown or 
white caps. Fresh is better than dried.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: Trim the ends of the stalks to sep-
arate into small clusters by hand.27 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotOYSTER MUSHROOMS
Usually white to gray stems with a gray or 
beige cap, oyster mushrooms have a nice 
chewy texture.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes (dried); 3 to 
4 minutes (fresh)
TO PREP: Trim the ends of the stalks and 
separate into small clusters by hand.
WOOD EAR MUSHROOMS
Texture is as important in Chinese cui-
sine as flavor. Sometimes called tree ear 
mushrooms, these dark brown leaflike 
mushrooms have a neutral flavor but pro-
vide a crunch unlike any other mushroom. 
They’re most commonly sold dried.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: If dried, pre-soak in warm water for 
10 to 15 minutes. Cut into bite-size pieces.
KING TRUMPET MUSHROOMS
Large mushrooms that are mostly stem. 
Get fresh when you can find them.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: Cut into 1/2-inch coins and cross -
hatch one side.Root and Other 
Vegetables
Root vegetables do a good job of absorb-
ing flavor from your broth. Aside from the 
daikon radish, all vegetables oxidize and 
turn brown or gray when cut, so place cut 
pieces in a bowl of water and add a table-
spoon of vinegar. Drain just before serving.
LOTUS ROOT
Long and cylindrical, lotus root has 
smooth pale skin. The white interior has a 
pinwheel flower pattern of holes. Slightly 
sweet, lotus root has a crisp texture even 
when cooked.
COOK TIME: 4 to 5 minutes
TO PREP: Peel and cut into discs about 
1/8 to 1/4 inch thick.
DAIKON RADISH
Often a foot or longer, daikon has a mild 
flavor. Look for ones with a firm exterior 
and no soft spots.
COOK TIME: 5 to 8 minutes. Cubes take 
longer than discs to cook through.
TO PREP: Peel and then cut into 1/2-inch-thick 
discs or 1-inch cubes.28Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookTARO ROOT
With a ringed, fuzzy exterior, taro root is 
white and often mottled with beige or 
pink flecks on the inside. Taro has a nutty, 
creamy flavor. When fresh, taro should 
feel heavy for its size.
COOK TIME: 15 to 20 minutes until soft like 
a cooked potato
TO PREP: Peel and then rinse with cold 
water. Cut into 1/2-inch discs.
SWEET POTATO
Any sweet potato is good, but American 
varieties tend to be sweeter than Asian ones.
COOK TIME: 6 to 7 minutes
TO PREP: Wash well or peel; then cut into 
1/2-inch discs or 1-inch cubes.
POTATO
Yukon Gold and Red Bliss potatoes hold up 
best to boiling, but you can use any variety.
COOK TIME: 8 to 12 minutesTO PREP: Wash well or peel; then cut into 
1/2-inch discs or 1-inch cubes.
PUMPKIN AND SQUASH
My favorites for hot pot are butternut, kab -
ocha, sugar pumpkin, delicata, and acorn. 
These are easy to peel as compared to 
many squashes that are roasted with the 
skin on and then the flesh is scraped out.
COOK TIME: 6 to 10 minutes; they will be 
soft like a cooked potato when done
TO PREP: Peel, cut in half, and scrape out the 
seeds. Cut into 1-inch cubes. Delicata and 
acorn squash do not need to be peeled.
CORN ON THE COB
Corn holds sauce well, and it makes a 
great addition to a hot pot. You can also 
use canned baby corn, which is found in 
most grocery stores.
COOK TIME: 3 to 4 minutes
TO PREP: Cut the corn into 3/4- to 1-inch-
wide pieces.
29 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotDumplings, Fish 
Balls, and Meatballs
Asian markets usually have a plethora of 
frozen dumpling and meatball options. 
Fish balls are a lot of work to make, but 
the others are relatively easy to make 
at home.
DUMPLINGS
Pre-made dumplings with myriad fillings 
add a great variety of flavors to hot pot. 
Or see pages 74–78 to make them from 
scratch.
COOK TIME: 5 to 7 minutes from frozen. 
Cooked dumplings float.
FISH BALLS
Choose any variation, including ones 
stuffed with roe or another ground meat.
COOK TIME: 4 to 5 minutes from frozen. 
Cooked fish balls float.SHRIMP BALLS
Except for the pink flecks of color, these 
look like fish balls. Shrimp balls have a 
strong shrimp flavor, whereas fish balls 
tend to be much milder. See the Shrimp 
Paste Balls (page 79) recipe to make them 
from scratch.
COOK TIME: 5 to 6 minutes from frozen; 
4 minutes for fresh. Cooked shrimp 
balls float.
MEATBALLS
Made from a variety of meats like pork, 
beef, and lamb, Chinese meatballs are 
different from an Italian meatball, with a 
springy and more dense texture.
COOK TIME: 4 to 5 minutes from frozen; 
2 minutes for fresh. Cooked  meatballs float.
30Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookFISH, MEAT, AND EGGS
For many people, meat and seafood are the stars of the hot pot. Cook times are short 
because portions are traditionally very thinly cut. Thinly cut meats become opaque and 
change color when cooked through.
Thin-Sliced Meat
Check out the frozen food section of an Asian grocery for pre-cut meats often labeled for 
hot pot or Korean barbecue. Many American groceries will have shaved beef available 
that was intended for Philly cheesesteaks that works well, too.
If you can’t find them pre-sliced, here’s how you can cut very thin slices of meat with-
out any special equipment. You can do this for lamb, beef, pork, and poultry.
1. To slice the meat, you’ll need to freeze it partially, but not rock solid. Unwrap the 
meat; then place it, uncovered, on a tray or plate that fits in your freezer. Cut large 
pieces of meat into smaller pieces about 2 1/2 to 3 inches wide so they freeze faster, 
and transfer to the freezer. For meat that is 1 inch at its thinnest dimension, it 
should be ready to slice after about 1 hour in the freezer. For a 2-inch cut, it should 
be ready in about 90 minutes, and for a 3-inch cut, check it at about 2 hours.
31 Ingredients for Chinese Hot Pot2. Once the meat is partially frozen, using your sharpest knife, slice against the grain 
of the meat. Cut as thinly as you can without the meat falling apart, usually 1/16  to 
1/8 inch thick. The meat will squish if it is not frozen enough, and you’ll have a hard 
time getting a good, clean slice. Put the meat back in the freezer for another 
15 minutes and try again. If it’s too hard to cut through, let it sit on the counter for 
10 minutes and try again.
3. Fan out the slices like a deck of cards on a serving plate so that you can more 
easily grab an edge of one slice with tongs or chopsticks.
Meats
For many, meats are the most important ingredient to a hot pot meal. Very thinly sliced 
meat works best because it cooks quickly. Asian grocery stores will often have thinly 
sliced meats in the freezer section that can be used for hot pot. Here are some of the 
best cuts for meat.
LAMB
BEST CUTS: Shoulder and leg
COOK TIME: 15 to 20 seconds
BEEF
Any cut of beef can be used with hot pot. 
If you’d like to eat it as a steak, you’ll like it 
thinly sliced in your hot pot.
BEST CUTS: Brisket, short rib, or rib-eye steak
COOK TIME: 15 to 20 secondsBEEF TONGUE
Beef tongue has a rich, beefy flavor. The 
back of the tongue, or “neck side,” is very 
tender and heavily marbled. The tip of the 
tongue has little to no marbling, and it is 
a chewier cut.
COOK TIME: 1 minute
TO PREP: Remove the skin and any con-
nective tissue. Slice beef tongue thinly like 
regular cuts.32Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookPORK
BEST CUTS: Loin or belly. Thick-cut bacon 
will do if you can’t find pork belly.
COOK TIME: 15 to 20 seconds
POULTRY
BEST CUTS: Boneless, skinless chicken 
thighs and breast or boneless duck breast
COOK TIME: 15 to 20 seconds
CHICKEN AND DUCK EGGS
COOK TIME: 5 to 6 minutes (soft-boiled); 10  
to 12 minutes (hard-boiled); 3 to 5 minutes 
(poached, shorter time for a runny yolk)
QUAIL EGGS
COOK TIME: 2 minutes (soft, for a runny 
yolk) to 4 minutes (hard-boiled)TRIPE AND INTESTINE
Choose pre-packaged versions in an Asian 
grocery store.
COOK TIME: 5+ minutes. Tripe really can’t 
be overcooked. The longer it cooks, the 
more flavor it absorbs from the broth.
TO PREP: If it’s not cleaned and parboiled, 
you will need to wash it thoroughly and 
then parboil and trim off any fat before 
slicing. You won’t need to freeze it first.
LIVER AND KIDNEY
COOK TIME: 1 minute
TO PREP: Slice thinly like regular cuts or 
thicker and then crosshatch.
Fish and Shellfish
In general, any fish you enjoy will work for hot pot. Bigger fish that yield thicker fillets or 
even steaks hold together better. Smaller fish and thinner fillets may flake apart when 
cooked in the broth.
FISH
COOK TIME: 30 to 60 seconds, depending 
on the thickness. Fish will become firm 
and opaque when cooked.
TO PREP: Remove any bones. For thick 
fillets or steaks, cube or slice on the bias   
into 1/4-inch-thick pieces. For thin fillets, 
slice across the fillet into pieces about  
11/2 inches wide.33 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotSHELLFISH
Any shellfish you enjoy will work for hot 
pot. Scallops are great and require no 
prep. For shellfish in their shells, I recom-
mend fresh clams or mussels. They should 
be alive before they are cooked.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes. Discard shellfish 
that do not open when cooked.
TO PREP: Scrub well to remove any sand 
or grit. To debeard mussels, hold them in 
one hand, use a towel or pliers to make 
it easier to grab the beard, and quickly 
yank it toward the hinge. Pulling toward 
the open side may kill the mussel. Soak 
clams and mussels in water for 20 minutes 
just before serving to allow them to expel 
sand and grit from inside the shell. Discard 
broken or cracked shells.
SHRIMP
Buy shell-on, uncooked frozen shrimp 
in the freezer case. In most parts of the 
United States, almost all shrimp were 
frozen at some point. If buying unfrozen, 
confirm that it is truly fresh.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes, or until firm, 
opaque, and white and orange in color.
TO PREP: Defrost in the refrigerator for 
12 hours. If the shrimp have not been 
 deveined, carefully slice through the shell 
and into the meat lengthwise and devein. You can leave the shell on or remove it. If 
removing, use the shells to make Fujian 
Seafood Broth (page 56).
SQUID
Use your strainer to cook squid in the hot 
pot so that you don’t lose it. Overcooked 
squid is tough and rubbery.
COOK TIME: 2 to 3 minutes
TO PREP: Frozen, pre-cut squid can be 
cooked from frozen. For fresh, cleaned 
squid, cut the body into rings or cut along 
one side to flatten it. Crosshatch the squid, 
and then cut into squares.
CRAB OR LOBSTER
These are best purchased live the day of 
your hot pot or pre-cooked and frozen.
COOK TIME: 1 to 2 minutes (pre-cooked 
and thawed)
TO PREP: Crab and lobster can be cooked 
from frozen, but for lobster tails, defrost in 
the refrigerator for 10 to 12 hours so that 
the meat doesn’t overcook. For fresh crabs, 
steam them in advance. Small crabs will 
cook in 5 to 6 minutes, and for large crabs 
and lobsters, allow 9 to 12 minutes. Sep-
arate the meaty legs, claws, and lobster 
tail for the hot pot. Reserve the rest of the 
carcass for making Fujian Seafood Broth 
(page 56).34Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHow Much Should I Buy?
It can be tricky to determine how much of any ingredient to have on hand or at the table 
for a hot pot meal. There is no one right formula, but here are some general guidelines 
to help you have enough food without having leftovers for a week.
MEAT, SEAFOOD, AND TOFU: 3/4 pound (12 ounces) per person
VEGETABLES AND MUSHROOMS: 1/3 pound (about 5 ounces) per person
DUMPLINGS, MEATBALLS, FISH BALLS, AND EGGS: a combination of 4 to 6 total per person
NOODLES:  1/4 pound (4 ounces) fresh noodles per person or 1 1/2 ounces dried noodles
per person
All of these amounts are totals for each ingredient group, so that means 3/4 pound 
of a combination of meats, seafood, and tofu plus 1/3 pound of vegetables and so on 
would feed one person. For any group of diners, it’s probable that for any person who 
doesn’t eat seafood, another does not eat red meat, so it usually averages out fine. Do 
make sure to confirm allergies and eliminate any allergens. It is not worth the risk of 
cross-contamination even if you use separate hot pots.
Leftovers?
The best part of the uncooked leftover ingredients is that they are already cut up and 
ready for stir-fry. Seafood is easily incorporated into seafood chowder along with remain-
ing corn and potatoes. I’ll admit that I usually discard most of the leftover broth from the 
hot pot even though I know it’s got a lot of flavor. I freeze the unused broth that never 
made it to the hot pot for another meal.35 Ingredients for Chinese Hot PotABOUT THE RECIPES
In the following chapters, you’ll find recipes to prepare your hot pot. Chapter 3 will focus 
on the broth, and chapter 4 will help you with dipping sauces and to make ingredients 
like noodles or shrimp balls from scratch. Chapters 5 and 6 put everything together with 
19 hot pot recipes, each with a perfect combination of broth, sauces, and ingredients.
If you feel overwhelmed, start with a store-bought hot pot broth mix or even simply 
canned chicken broth. One of the best-known hot pot restaurant chains, Haidilao, 
includes plain water as an option on its hot pot menu. Remember, there is no right or 
wrong way to mix and match ingredients and broth. Sauces should taste good to you 
even if your friends and family wrinkle their noses at your combination of flavors. Once 
you get the hang of it, you can use these recipes as a launching point to create your own 
hot pot meals.
Don’t let food allergies or dietary needs deter you from enjoying hot pot. Leave 
out troublesome ingredients or use the substitution tips in the recipes to make them 
your own.Sichuan Red Ma La Broth, page 3837CHAPTER THREE
Broths
Sichuan Red Ma La Broth  38
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth  39
Sichuan Green Ma La Broth  40
Sichuan Spicy T omato Broth  41
Guizhou Sour Fish Broth  42
Guizhou Pickled Greens and 
Bean Broth  44
Yunnan Mushroom Broth  46
Hunan Cured Meat Broth  48
Mandarin Lamb Broth  49
Heilongjiang Clear Broth  50
Cantonese Congee Broth  51Cantonese Pork Bone Broth  52
Hainan Chicken-  
Coconut Broth  53
Chrysanthemum  
Blossom Broth  54
Zhejiang Drunken  
Chicken Broth  55
Fujian Seafood Broth  56
Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth  58
Sheep Scorpion Broth  60
T omato Broth  62
Buddhist Clear Broth  63Essential Chinese Hot Pot Cookbook38SICHUAN RED MA LA BROTH
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
This is the most popular hot pot broth in China, originating in the central province of Sichuan. 
Famous for its iconic red color, this popular broth has a fiery spiciness and unique mouth-  
numbing quality known as Ma La (málà, 麻辣 ). Pair this with a non-spicy broth like the  
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth (page 39) to balance out the heat.
1 to 3 cups whole dried red 
Sichuan chiles
4 tablespoons red Sichuan 
peppercorns
2 bay leaves
1 tablespoon Chinese 
five-spice powder
2 cups neutral oil (vegetable, 
canola, safflower, etc.)1/2 cup minced scallions, both 
white and green parts
3 tablespoons peeled minced 
fresh ginger
6 garlic cloves, finely chopped
6 tablespoons Sichuan 
chili flakes
1/4 cup fermented black beans 
(dòuchĭ, 豆豉)5 tablespoons Sichuan broad 
bean chili paste
10 cups beef stock
1/2 cup Shaoxing wine
2 black cardamom pods
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon salt or low-sodium 
salt substitute like Ac’cent
1. In a medium bowl, soak the dried chiles in boiling water for at least 30 minutes.
2. In a spice grinder, grind the peppercorns and bay leaves to form a medium- 
ground powder. Transfer the ground spices to a small bowl and add the five-spice 
powder and just enough water to cover the spices. Let rest for 15 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a stockpot, heat the oil over low heat. Add the scallions, ginger, 
and garlic and cook for 6 to 8 minutes. Avoid browning the garlic.
4. Drain the whole chiles from step 1 and transfer to a cutting board. Remove any 
stems from the chiles; then mince the chiles to a paste-like texture.
5. Add the minced chiles, chili flakes, fermented black beans, and chili paste to the 
stockpot. Stir to combine and cook for 2 minutes, until fragrant.
6. Add the stock, ground spices (and soaking liquid) from step 2, wine, cardamom 
pods, sugar, and salt. Cover and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and 
simmer for 10 minutes. Turn off the heat and let rest for at least 45 minutes.39 BrothsMANDARIN DUCK CLEAR BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
Contrary to its name, there is no duck in this broth—it’s vegan. Mandarin ducks (yuān yāng, 
鸳鸯 ) mate for life, so they are associated with a well-matched pair. A “Mandarin Duck Pot” 
refers to a split hot pot, with a spicy Sichuan-style broth on one side and this mild broth on 
the other for the perfect pairing.
5 dried shiitake mushrooms
2 tablespoons neutral oil  
(vegetable, canola, 
safflower, etc.)
5 garlic cloves, finely chopped6 scallions, both white and 
green parts, separated
5 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
10 cups water8 dried Chinese red dates
1 tablespoon dried goji berries
1 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoons salt or Ac’cent
1. In a small bowl, cover the mushrooms with boiling water. Cover and set aside.
2. In a stockpot, heat the oil over low heat until it shimmers. Add the garlic, white 
part of the scallions, and ginger and cook for 3 minutes. Stir occasionally to 
ensure the garlic doesn’t brown.
3. Strain the mushrooms, reserving the soaking liquid, and transfer to a cutting 
board. Trim the woody stems.
4. Add the mushrooms, mushroom soaking liquid, water, and dates to the stockpot. 
Cover and bring to a boil; then reduce the heat to low and simmer for 1 hour.
5. Strain the broth, discarding the solids. Transfer the broth to the hot pot.
6. Cut the green part of scallions into 1-inch pieces; then add to the broth along 
with the goji berries, sugar, and salt just before serving.
PREP TIP: The simplest way to peel ginger is with a spoon. Hold the spoon like a paring 
knife and scrape off the skin.40 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSICHUAN GREEN MA LA BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
This variation on the Sichuan-style broth provides a different take on Ma La and has a cleaner 
and  lighter flavor because it doesn’t call for fermented black beans and warming spices like 
anise and cloves. Green Sichuan peppercorns are not unripe red Sichuan peppercorns but 
an entirely different variety with a more pronounced numbing flavor. Use more or fewer Thai 
chiles to adjust the spiciness.
4 tablespoons green Sichuan 
peppercorns
2 bay leaves
1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/4 cup neutral oil (vegetable, 
canola, safflower, etc.)
1/4 cup pickled ginger, julienned4 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 1-inch 
pieces and separated
2 tablespoons Sichuan broad 
bean chili paste
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped7 ounces Sichuan pickled 
vegetable (zhàcài, 榨菜) 
or kimchi
10 fresh green Thai 
chiles, trimmed
10 cups water
1/2 cup Shaoxing wine
Salt
1. In a spice grinder or blender, grind the peppercorns, bay leaves, and fennel seeds 
to a medium-ground powder. In a small bowl, place the spices with just enough 
water to cover. Let rest for at least 15 minutes.
2. In a stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat until it shimmers. Add the pickled 
ginger, white parts of the scallion, chili paste, and garlic. Fry for 2 minutes, stirring 
occasionally, until the garlic is softened.
3. Add the pickled vegetable and chiles and fry for 1 minute, or until fragrant.
4. Add the water and spice mixture, cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. When 
boiling, reduce the heat to low and simmer for 1 hour.
5. Remove from heat and add the wine. Season with salt to taste.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: If you want a richer broth, use a vegan broth instead of water.41 BrothsSICHUAN SPICY TOMATO BROTH
Prep Time:  30 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
This  is a Sichuan-inspired variation of a classic tomato broth that incorporates Ma La flavors. 
This  may not pack the same punch as the Red or Green Ma La broths, but combined with the 
tang of the tomatoes, this broth brings heat, numbing, sour, and umami all in one.
1/2 cup whole dried red 
 Sichuan chiles
2 tablespoons red or green 
Sichuan peppercorns
1 tablespoon Chinese 
five-spice powder
1/4 cup neutral oil (vegetable, 
canola, safflower, etc.)1 tablespoon peeled, coarsely 
chopped fresh ginger
2 garlic cloves, 
coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons Sichuan 
chili flakes
2 tablespoons tomato paste1 tablespoon Sichuan broad 
bean chili paste
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes
8 cups water
1/4 cup Shaoxing wine
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt or Ac’cent
1. Place the dried chiles in a small bowl. Add enough boiling water to cover. Cover 
the bowl and let rest for at least 30 minutes.
2. In a spice grinder or blender, grind the peppercorns to a medium-ground powder. 
Place in a small bowl with the five-spice powder and add just enough water to 
cover. Let rest for at least 15 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a stockpot, heat the oil over low heat. Add the ginger and garlic 
and cook for about 5 minutes, or until fragrant.
4. Drain the whole chiles from step 1 and transfer to a cutting board. Remove any 
stems from the chiles; then mince the chiles to a paste-like texture.
5. Add the minced chiles, chili flakes, tomato paste, and chili paste to the stockpot. 
Cook for 2 minutes.
6. Add the tomatoes with their juices, water, spice mixture (including the soaking 
liquid), wine, sugar, and salt. Stir to combine, cover, and bring the stock to a boil 
over high heat; then immediately reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 30 minutes.42Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookGUIZHOU SOUR FISH BROTH
Prep Time:  25 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR  Makes  10 CUPS
During my first trip to China, I visited Guiyang, the capital of the Guizhou province in southwest 
China near Sichuan province. Guizhou cuisine is often very spicy like neighboring Sichuan’s 
cuisine. This broth uses pickled sour mustard in place of a hard-to-find Guizhou pickled chile 
(zāo làjiāo, 糟辣椒 ) and as a result is only mildly spicy. This also traditionally features local 
freshwater grass carp, but you can use any mild white fish.
1 egg white, beaten
11/2 tablespoons Shaoxing wine
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon salt
11/2 pounds catfish or any mild 
white fish fillets, skin on, 
scales removed8 to 12 ounces pickled 
sour mustard
2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
safflower, etc.)
2 garlic chives or scallions, cut 
into 1-inch pieces4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
1 tablespoon Sichuan broad 
bean chili paste
8 cups chicken broth or water
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tomato, cut into wedges
1. In a large bowl, mix the egg white, wine, cornstarch, and salt. Stir to combine 
until the starch and salt are dissolved.
2. With the fish skin-side up, cut the fish on the bias at about a 30-degree angle 
relative to the cutting board into 3/8-inch-thick pieces. Add the fish pieces to the 
egg white mixture, stir gently to coat, and set aside to marinate.
3. Strain the pickled mustard, reserving the juice, and transfer to a cutting board 
and coarsely chop.
4. In a stockpot, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add the pickled sour mustard, 
garlic chives, ginger, and chili paste and fry for 2 minutes, stirring to combine.43 Broths5. Add the broth, reserved pickling juice, and sugar. Cover and bring to a boil over 
high heat; then reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 15 minutes.
6. Strain the broth into the hot pot, discarding the solids. Add the marinated fish 
and tomato to the hot broth. Stir gently to separate the fish pieces, cover, and 
allow the residual heat to cook the fish for at least 10 minutes.
7. To begin your hot pot meal, carefully transfer the cooked fish to a serving dish. 
Turn on the hot pot and return the broth to a boil. Enjoy the cooked fish while you 
wait for the broth to get hot enough to cook other ingredients.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: Chinese pickled sour mustard (suāncài, 酸菜) is also sometimes labeled 
C’ai Chua. If you can’t find it, use fermented sauerkraut instead.
PREP TIP: If making the broth in advance, keep the fish marinating in the refrigerator and 
pause the process at step 5. When ready to resume at step 6, bring the broth back to 
a boil, take the fish out of the refrigerator, and allow it to begin to warm up. When the 
broth boils, turn off the heat, add the fish, and cover. Allow the fish to cook for at least 
10 minutes in the hot broth with the hot pot turned off.44 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookGUIZHOU PICKLED GREENS 
AND BEAN BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES, PLUS OVERNIGHT TO PRE-SOAK  Cook Time:  3 HOURS   
Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
This broth is inspired by another Guizhou-style hot pot base, but I’ve swapped out the original 
pork broth for a vegetable broth. The dominant flavor comes from the pickled greens, provid -
ing a pleasant sourness, so a meat-based broth isn’t essential to enjoying this tangy broth.
1/2 cup dried lima beans
1 teaspoon salt, divided
4 cups water
1 cup pickled sour mustard
1 tablespoon neutral oil 
(vegetable, canola, 
safflower, etc.)3 large garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons peeled minced 
fresh ginger
11/2 teaspoons (about 1 cube) 
red fermented bean curd
5 cups low-sodium 
 vegetable broth1 ear corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1 tomato, cut into wedges
2 garlic chives, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1. In a medium bowl, combine the beans, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and enough water to 
cover the beans by about 2 inches. Let soak overnight or at least 8 hours.
2. In a medium pot, place the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt and the water. Bring to 
a boil over high heat. Drain the beans and add to the boiling water. Cover, reduce 
the heat to low, and simmer for 2 hours, or until the beans are soft.
3. Strain the beans, reserving the cooking liquid. Set aside half of the beans, and in 
a small bowl, mash the other half with a fork or potato masher.
4. Strain the pickled sour mustard, reserving the pickling juice, and transfer to a cut-
ting board. Coarsely chop the mustard and set aside.45 Broths5. In a wok or large saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat until it shimmers. Add 
the garlic and ginger. Cook for about 1 minute; then add the fermented bean 
curd, stirring to break up the bean curd. Cook for another 30 seconds.
6. Add the pickled mustard to the wok and cook for 1 minute. Stir in the mashed 
beans and cook for about 1 minute. Remove from heat and set aside.
7. In a stockpot, combine 3 cups of reserved bean cooking liquid, the vegetable 
broth, and reserved pickling juice. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat.
8. Add the cooked beans, mashed beans, and mustard mixture to the stockpot. 
Cover and reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 30 minutes.
9. Transfer the broth to the hot pot and add the corn, tomato, and garlic chives. 
When ready to begin the hot pot meal, set the heat to high to bring to a boil.
PREP TIP: If using a vegetable broth concentrate or bouillon powder for the 5 cups of broth 
in step 7, follow the package instructions to mix 4 cups of broth, and then dilute with a 
fifth cup of water. Add this diluted broth and the other liquids to the stockpot. Test the 
broth, and if it needs more salt, add some or use more concentrate or bouillon powder 
to taste.46Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookYUNNAN MUSHROOM BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  2 HOURS 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
Yunnan province is in the southwestern corner of China on the eastern tip of the Himalayan  
mountains. In the foothills of these mountains, foragers have found over 800 edible vari -
eties of mushroom—most of them unique to the region. Local hot pot broths usually feature 
mushrooms found only in Yunnan. This recipe is an homage to the Yunnan broth using 
 mushrooms that are easy to find.
10 cups water
1 teaspoon red Sichuan 
peppercorns
2 black cardamom pods
4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed4 scallions, both green and 
white parts, divided
2 ounces dried mushrooms like 
shiitake, porcini, morels, or 
chanterelles, divided
Salt2 teaspoons dried goji berries
8 to 10 dried red  Chinese  
dates
1. In a large stockpot, combine the water, peppercorns, cardamom pods, ginger, 
and 2 scallions. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat; then reduce the heat to 
the lowest setting and simmer for 40 minutes.
2. When boiling, combine 2 cups of hot water from the stockpot with 1 ounce of 
dried mushrooms in a medium bowl. Cover and rehydrate the mushrooms for 
30 minutes.
3. In a spice grinder or blender, grind the remaining 1 ounce of dried mushrooms to a 
powder. Set aside.
4. When the mushrooms have rehydrated, strain the mushrooms, reserving the 
soaking liquid, and transfer to a cutting board. Trim off the woody stems, return 
the mushrooms to the soaking liquid, and set aside.47 Broths5. Strain the stock, discarding the solids; then return the stock to the stockpot. Add 
the powdered mushrooms, rehydrated mushrooms, and reserved soaking liquid. 
Cover and simmer over low heat for 10 minutes. Season with salt.
6. Slice the remaining 2 scallions into 2-inch pieces. Add the scallions, goji berries, 
and dates to the broth when ready to start the hot pot. Wait to add these if 
making the broth well in advance.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can use a mushroom bouillon base instead of grinding dried mush-
rooms to a powder, but be aware that most mushroom bouillons are mostly salt or MSG. 
Better Than Bouillon’s Mushroom Base is mostly mushroom but includes whey powder, so it 
is not vegan, only vegetarian.48 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHUNAN CURED MEAT BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
This Hunan-inspired broth uses cured meats as a base for its broth, but unfortunately, Hunan 
cured  meats are not commonly exported. This recipe re-creates the flavors of this broth using 
cured  meats that are easier to find, like Italian pancetta, bacon, and lap cheong sausage 
(which is made in the United States).
2 slices thick-cut bacon, diced
4 Chinese lap cheong sausage 
links, cut into 1/4-inch-thick  
pieces
4 ounces pancetta, diced into 
1/4-inch cubes3 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
3 garlic cloves, smashed
10 cups water
2 large pieces dried citrus peel4 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into  
1-inch pieces, divided
1 large daikon radish (about 
11/2 pounds), peeled and cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1. In a stockpot, cook the bacon over medium heat for about 5 minutes to render 
the fat. Add the lap cheong sausage and pancetta and cook for another 
2 minutes to allow some of their fat to render in the pot.
2. Add the ginger and garlic and cook for 1 minute; then add the water, dried citrus 
peel, and white parts of the scallion. Cover and bring the broth to a boil over high 
heat; then reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 20 minutes.
3. Add the daikon radish to the stockpot. Cover and simmer for another 20 minutes.
4. Transfer the cooked radish to the hot pot.
5. Strain the broth, discarding the meats and aromatics, and add to the hot pot.
6. Top with the scallion greens before serving.49MANDARIN LAMB BROTH
Prep Time:  20 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 35 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
In northern China, lamb is central to the hot pot experience, and this mild broth really brings 
out the flavor of the lamb. This method for making stock from raw bones can be used with beef, 
pork, or poultry bones as well. 
1 pound raw lamb bones
12 cups water
1 tablespoon neutral oil 
 (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
2 scallions, both white and 
green parts, trimmed 
and halved1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
2 tablespoons dried 
goji berries
1. In a large bowl, soak the lamb bones in cold water for 30 minutes.
2. When the bones have been soaking for about 20 minutes, fill a large pot halfway 
with water and bring to a boil over high heat.
3. Drain the bones, transfer to the boiling water, and blanch for 2 minutes.
4. Drain the blanched bones using a colander. Rinse the bones under cold water for 
20 to 30 seconds and then let drain completely. Set aside.
5. Rinse the pot and bring the water to a boil over high heat.
6. Meanwhile, in a separate large stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat until it 
shimmers. Transfer the rinsed lamb bones to the stockpot. Cook the bones for 
about 5 minutes, turning occasionally, until browned on all sides.
7. Add the ginger and scallions to the stockpot and carefully pour in the boiled 
water. Cover and simmer over low heat for 1 hour.
8. Strain the broth, discarding the bones and aromatics.
9. Add the salt and white pepper; then transfer the broth to the hot pot. To serve, 
add the goji berries and turn on the hot pot.
Broths50Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHEILONGJIANG CLEAR BROTH
Prep Time:  5 MINUTES  Cook Time:  25 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
Heilongjiang province is in the northeastern corner of China. Bordering Inner Mongolia and 
Russia, it is a crossroads of cultures. The most iconic landmark in its capital city of Harbin is 
a Byzantine-style Orthodox Church, St. Sophia Cathedral. This clear broth is very mild and 
allows the flavors of the cooked ingredients and dipping sauce to shine.
10 cups water
1 cup Chinese garlic chives, cut 
into 1-inch pieces2 scallions, both white 
and green parts, cut into 
1-inch pieces
2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed1/4 cup dried shrimp (xiāmi,  
蝦米 or 虾米)
2 tablespoons dried 
goji berries
1. In the hot pot, combine the water, garlic chives, scallions, ginger, and shrimp.
2. Cover, set the heat to high, and bring to a boil. When it reaches a boil, reduce the 
heat to the lowest setting and simmer for 20 minutes.
3. Add the goji berries 5 minutes before you begin the hot pot meal.51 BrothsCANTONESE CONGEE BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
Congee is Chinese comfort food. It is a simple rice porridge that takes on the flavors of what -
ever you add to it so that its flavor improves throughout your hot pot meal. Congee hot pot 
goes especially well with seafood.
1/2 cup white rice
12 cups water2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed1 teaspoon salt
1. In a large bowl, rinse the rice using cool tap water. Stir with your hand and then 
drain the water. Repeat two more times.
2. Transfer the rinsed rice, water, ginger, and salt to a stockpot. Bring to a boil over 
high heat; then reduce the heat to a simmer.
3. Stir frequently to ensure the rice doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pot.
4. Partially cover the pot and simmer for 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Do not com-
pletely cover the pot or it will boil over.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: For a more savory congee, substitute some or all of the water with a 
basic meat or vegetable broth of your choice.
PREP TIP: If you wash and drain uncooked rice and then freeze it for at least 8 hours, the 
congee will cook in about half the time. Using cooked rice will save only about 10 minutes. 
If you are using cooked rice, use about 11/2 cups and reduce the water by a cup.52Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookCANTONESE PORK BONE BROTH
Prep Time:  20 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 35 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
This Cantonese-style broth is very mild and allows the flavors of the food to come through, 
making it a good counterpoint to a hot and spicy Sichuan-style broth. Cantonese cuisine 
comes from the southeastern regions of China surrounding Hong Kong. 
1 pound raw pork bones
12 cups water
2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
6 scallions, white part only
2 tablespoons Shaoxing wine1 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1 large daikon radish (about 
11/2 pounds), peeled, cut into 
1-inch cubes
Salt
1. In a large bowl, soak the pork bones in cold water for 30 minutes.
2. When the bones have been soaking for about 20 minutes, fill a large pot halfway 
with water and bring to boil.
3. Drain the bones, transfer to the boiling water, and blanch for 2 minutes.
4. Drain the blanched bones using a colander. Rinse under cold water for 20 to 
30 seconds and then let drain completely. Set aside.
5. Rinse the pot and bring the water to a boil over high heat.
6. Meanwhile, in a stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat until it shimmers. Trans -
fer the drained pork bones to the stockpot. Cook the bones for about 5 minutes, 
turning occasionally, until browned on all sides.
7. Add the ginger, scallions, wine, and white pepper to the stockpot and carefully 
pour in the boiling water. Cover and simmer over low heat for 30 minutes.
8. Add the daikon radish, cover, and let simmer over low heat for another 
30 minutes. Transfer the cooked radish to the hot pot.
9. Strain the broth, discarding all solids and add to the hot pot. Season with salt.53 BrothsHAINAN CHICKEN-COCONUT BROTH
Prep Time:  25 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  8 CUPS
This broth is inspired by the popular Hainan-style poached chicken dish. Hainan is a tropical 
island making up the southernmost point of China, and its cuisine shares flavors found in Viet -
nam and Thailand. See Resources (page 127) for how to carve a chicken Chinese-style.
1 (2 1/2- to 3-pound) whole 
small roasting chicken
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 cups coconut water2 cups unsweetened 
coconut flakes
4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed2 scallions, both white and 
green parts, quartered
1. Remove the neck and giblets from the chicken. Set aside the neck for the broth. 
Discard the giblets unless using as a hot pot ingredient.
2. In a large bowl, soak the chicken in cold water for 5 minutes; then drain and pat 
dry with paper towels. Rub the salt all over the chicken and set aside.
3. In a stockpot, combine the coconut water, coconut flakes, ginger, scallions, and 
the chicken neck. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat.
4. When the coconut water mixture comes to a boil, rinse off the salt from the 
chicken; then lower it gently into the stockpot, breast-side up. Cover and return 
the broth to a boil.
5. When boiling, use tongs to lift and tip the chicken to drain the cavity of any 
trapped water; then lower the chicken back into the pot. Cover and return to a boil.
6. Once boiling, reduce the heat to low and simmer for 5 minutes; then turn off the 
heat and let the chicken cook in the residual heat for 50 minutes.
7. Fill a large bowl or cooking pot halfway with water and ice. Transfer the cooked 
chicken to the ice bath, cover, and let cool for at least 15 minutes. When cooled, 
chop the chicken into bite-size pieces to serve with the hot pot.
8. Strain the broth, discarding the solids. Transfer the broth to the hot pot.54CHRYSANTHEMUM BLOSSOM BROTH
Prep Time:  20 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
Popular in the Zhejiang province, the chrysanthemum hot pot was popularized by the Empress 
Dowager Cixi of the Qing Dynasty. The chrysanthemum hot pot was part of her regimen to 
maintain beauty and ensure a long life. This simple broth lets the chrysanthemum aroma 
shine  through.
12 cups water
1 (21/2- to 3-pound) 
whole chicken
2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
safflower, etc.)2 scallions, both white and 
green parts, cut into 1-inch 
julienne
4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed2 tablespoons dried 
chrysanthemum flowers or 
4 chrysanthemum tea bags
1 tablespoon dried goji berries
8 dried Chinese red dates
1. In a large covered pot, bring the water to a boil.
2. Remove the neck and giblets from the chicken. Set aside the neck for the broth. 
Discard the giblets unless using as a hot pot ingredient.
3. Debone the chicken and remove the skin. Place the bones, skin, and carcass in a 
large bowl, cover with cold water, and let soak for 20 minutes; then drain and set 
aside. Reserve the chicken meat for your hot pot meal.
4. In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat until it shimmers. Add the scal-
lions and ginger and cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes.
5. Add the chicken bones, neck, and skin to the stockpot and cook for 3 minutes, 
turning occasionally.
6. Carefully transfer the boiling water to the stockpot, and boil for 1 hour.
7. Strain the broth, discarding the bones, skin, and aromatics, and transfer to the 
hot pot. Add the dried chrysanthemum flowers, goji berries, and dates. Cover and 
let steep for 10 minutes to allow the flowers to hydrate and infuse the broth with 
their flavor and aroma. If using tea bags, remove them before serving.
Essential Chinese Hot Pot Cookbook55 BrothsZHEJIANG DRUNKEN CHICKEN BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  8 CUPS
Drunken chicken is usually prepared as a braised chicken dish. Heavily seasoned with 
 Shaoxing wine and traditional Chinese herbs, it is viewed as the perfect companion to a cold 
winter day. This variation yields more of the broth so that it can be used for hot pot.
8 cups water
1 (21/2- to 6-ounce) package 
Chinese herbal soup mix
4 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon plus 2 cups 
Shaoxing wine, divided2 bone-in, skin-on 
chicken breasts
2 tablespoons dried 
goji berries
8 dried Chinese red dates
1. In a stockpot, combine the water, soup mix, and ginger. Cover and bring to a boil 
over high heat; then reduce the heat to low. Simmer for 45 minutes.
2. While the broth simmers, in a medium bowl, mix the salt, sugar, and 1 tablespoon 
of wine. Add the chicken breasts and stir well to coat. Cover and marinate in the 
refrigerator.
3. When the broth has been simmering for 45 minutes, add the marinated chicken 
and 1 cup of wine. Cover and continue to simmer for 10 minutes.
4. Transfer the cooked chicken to a cutting board and let cool for 5 minutes before 
carving. Using a Chinese cleaver or sharp chef’s knife, cut each breast into 
1-inch-wide pieces. Set aside on a serving plate for the hot pot meal.
5. Strain the broth, discarding the herbs and ginger, and transfer to the hot pot. Add 
the goji berries, dates, and the remaining 1 cup of wine. Return to a boil before 
adding hot pot ingredients to it.
INGREDIENT TIP: Look for Chinese herbal soup mixes that include Solomon’s seal, dried lily 
bulbs, Angelica sinensis, fox nut, codonopsis root, astragalus root, overlord flower, and/or 
dried licorice root.56Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookFUJIAN SEAFOOD BROTH
Prep Time:  40 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
My family’s history traces back to King Wu of the Zhou Dynasty, 1046 CE. In the 16th cen -
tury, my 18th-great-grandfather was sent by the emperor to oversee Fujian province. Most of 
the family stayed in a small mountain village, but my great-grandfather left and went to the 
coastal city of Fuzhou, where he eventually joined the navy. Fuzhou remains a major port in 
China where seafood is abundant. I live near the Maine coast and wanted to feature local 
lobster in this Fujian-cuisine inspired broth.
2 live Maine lobsters  
(11/4 to 11/2 pound each)
1 pound shell-on shrimp, 
deveined
1 tablespoon neutral oil 
 (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
1 bay leaf
1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1 teaspoon whole black 
peppercorns1/4 cup Shaoxing wine
2 plum tomatoes, quartered
8 cups water
1. In a large pot, bring 1/2 inch of water to a boil. Remove the rubber bands from the 
claws and place the lobsters in the pot, cover, and steam for 10 to 12 minutes, 
or until the shells become bright orange and the antennas break off with the 
slightest tug.
2. Remove the shrimp shells and set aside for the broth. Set the shrimp aside for 
hot pot.
3. Transfer the lobsters to a large bowl to cool. When cool enough to handle, remove 
the tail, claw, and knuckle meat, reserving the shells, juice, and cooking liquid. Set 
aside the meats for hot pot. Discard the feathery gills and the sand sac behind 
the eyes.57 Broths4. In a large stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the shrimp shells and 
ginger and cook for 1 minute, or until the color of the shells changes. Add the 
lobster shells, breaking up any large pieces. Cook for another 5 minutes, stirring 
occasionally.
5. Add the reserved cooking liquid, reserved lobster juice, bay leaf, fennel seeds, 
peppercorns, wine, tomatoes, and water. Cover and bring to a boil. Reduce the 
heat to low and simmer for 45 minutes.
6. Strain the broth, discarding all solids, and transfer to the hot pot.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can use any combination of lobster, shrimp, crab shells, fish heads, 
or fish bones.
INGREDIENT TIP: The lobster tail meat should be sliced no thicker than 1/4 inch and on the 
bias so that it reheats quickly in the hot pot. Since it is already cooked, you don’t want to 
overcook the lobster meat, as it becomes tough.58Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookXINJIANG DABANJI BROTH
Prep Time:  25 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS
Xinjiang province is located in the northwestern corner of China, bordering Pakistan, 
 Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and Mongolia. It is the home to the Uighur people, and its cuisine is 
influenced as much by China as by its central Asian neighbors. One of the signature dishes of 
the region is DaBanJi or “big plate chicken,” a beer-braised chicken dish. I’ve used this as the 
inspiration for this broth.
1/2 cup dried whole dried red 
Sichuan chiles
8 cups water
1 tablespoon neutral oil 
 (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)
2 scallions, both white and 
green parts, minced2 tablespoons peeled minced 
fresh ginger
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons dark soy sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt
11/2 to 2 pounds chicken wings 
and thighs1 (12-ounce) can beer 
 (Xinjiang Wusu or any amber 
or brown ale)
1 star anise
1 cinnamon stick
1 black cardamom
1 teaspoon coarsely ground 
black pepper
1. In a small bowl, cover the dried chiles with boiling water. Let soak for at least 
30 minutes. Drain and set aside.
2. In a medium pot, bring the water to a boil over high heat.
3. Meanwhile, in a stockpot, heat the oil over medium-high heat until it shimmers. 
Add the scallions, ginger, and garlic and cook for 2 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Reduce the heat if needed to prevent the garlic from browning.
4. In a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, sugar, and salt.
5. Add the chicken and soy sauce mixture to the stockpot. Stir together to coat. 
Cook for 5 minutes or until the chicken pieces have begun to brown, stirring 
occasionally.59 Broths6. Transfer the pre-soaked chiles to a cutting board and mince to a paste-like 
texture.
7. Add the minced chiles, beer, star anise, cinnamon, cardamom, and black pepper 
to the stockpot. Cover and bring to a boil; then reduce the heat to low and 
simmer for 5 minutes.
8. Pour the boiling water into the stockpot. Cover and simmer for another 
45 minutes.
9. Carefully transfer the cooked chicken to a serving plate. Strain the broth, discard-
ing the aromatics, and transfer to the hot pot.
PAIRING TIP: If you’ve purchased a six-pack of beer to make this broth, serve the other five 
with your meal. In fact, maybe you should buy a couple six-packs!60 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSHEEP SCORPION BROTH
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES, PLUS 1 HOUR TO SOAK  Cook Time:  3 HOURS 30 MINUTES  
Makes  10 CUPS
You can taste the influence of central Asia and the Silk Road in the cumin that flavors this 
broth. As exciting as it would be to include scorpions in a broth, too, this classic recipe got its 
name from a sheep’s vertebrae bone. The cross section of that bone is thought to resemble 
a scorpion. Sheep scorpion is a braised mutton dish that comes from Inner Mongolia, but it is 
popular across northern and western China. It is the inspiration for this hot pot broth.
2 pounds sheep neck and 
spine bones
12 cups water
2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)
5 whole dried red 
 Sichuan chiles4 scallions, both white 
and green parts, cut into 
1-inch pieces
3 bay leaves
2 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
1 cinnamon stick1 tablespoon cumin seeds
1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1/2 teaspoon whole cloves
21/2 tablespoons dark soy sauce
21/2 tablespoons Shaoxing wine
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon sugar
1. In a large bowl, soak the sheep bones in cool water for at least 1 hour.
2. In a large pot, add the water and bring to a boil over high heat.
3. Drain the bones and transfer to a stockpot. Fill with enough cool water to cover 
the bones. Cover and bring to a boil over high heat; then remove from heat. Drain 
the boiled bones, transfer to a large bowl, and set aside.
4. Rinse and dry the stockpot. In the clean stockpot, heat the oil over medium heat.
5. Add the chiles, scallions, bay leaves, ginger, cinnamon stick, cumin seeds, fennel 
seeds, and cloves. Cook for 2 minutes; then add the boiled sheep bones.61 Broths6. In a small bowl, mix the dark soy sauce, wine, soy sauce, and sugar, stirring to 
dissolve. Pour over the sheep bones.
7. Carefully transfer the boiling water to the stockpot. Cover and return the water to 
a boil; then reduce heat to low and simmer for 3 hours. Check the pot after 1 hour 
30 minutes to make sure that the broth is still covering the bones. If not, add 
more water to cover.
8. After 3 hours, the meat should be fall-off-the-bone tender. Transfer the bones 
and broth to the hot pot to serve.
PREP TIP: Use a slotted spoon or kitchen tongs to transfer the sheep bones to the hot pot 
first; then you can more easily pour the broth. You can also strain the broth first to remove 
the spices if you prefer.62Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookTOMATO BROTH
Prep Time:  25 MINUTES  Cook Time:  1 HOUR  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
Tomatoes first came to China in the late 16th century, about the same time that they were 
introduced to Italy. Tomatoes have not become as central to the cuisine as they have in Italy, 
but in hot pot, one of the most ubiquitous styles of broth is the tomato broth. Interestingly, 
China is the world’s largest producer of tomatoes, accounting for over 31 percent of the world’s 
tomatoes.
2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.)
2 shallots, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 tablespoon sugar
5 plum tomatoes, cut into 
wedges, divided
1 pint cherry tomatoes, halved8 cups water
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1. In a stockpot, heat the oil over low heat. Add the shallots and garlic and sauté for 
8 minutes, until the shallots are translucent.
2. Add the tomato paste and sugar, stirring to break up the paste, and cook for 
another 2 minutes, or until everything is fully incorporated.
3. Add half of the tomato wedges and all of the cherry tomatoes to the stockpot. 
Cook for another 10 minutes, or until the tomatoes have broken down. Stir occa-
sionally and use a large spoon to break up and crush the tomatoes.
4. Add the water to the stockpot. Cover and bring to a boil; then reduce the heat to 
low and simmer for 30 minutes.
5. Add the remaining tomato wedges, salt, and white pepper and transfer to the 
hot pot to serve.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can substitute 1 (14-ounce) can of diced tomatoes for the fresh plum 
and cherry tomatoes.63 BrothsBUDDHIST CLEAR BROTH
Prep Time:  10 MINUTES  Cook Time:  40 MINUTES  Makes  10 CUPS  Vegan
Buddhism has influenced Chinese culture for centuries. There are a couple of food prohibi -
tions in Buddhism including alcohol and certain pungent “spices” like onion, garlic, shallots, 
chives, and leeks. These foods, all members of the allium family, are said to create anger and 
passion. While not all Buddhists adhere to this prohibition, I’ve assembled a vegan broth that 
steers clear of these foods.
8 cups water
1 (21/2- to 6-ounce) package 
Chinese herbal soup mix
1 small daikon radish, peeled 
and cut into 1-inch cubes
1 ear corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces11/2 teaspoons red fermented 
bean curd
3 (1/4-inch-thick) slices peeled 
fresh ginger, smashed
2 pieces dried citrus peel
1 tablespoon soy sauce2 tablespoons dried 
goji berries
1 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
8 dried Chinese red dates
1. In the hot pot, combine the water, herbal soup mix, daikon radish, corn, fer -
mented bean curd, ginger, citrus peel, and soy sauce. Cover and bring to a boil 
over high heat; then reduce the heat to low and simmer for 30 minutes.
2. Add the goji berries, sesame oil, and dates 5 minutes before you begin your hot 
pot meal.
INGREDIENT TIP: When shopping for Chinese herbal soup mix packets, look for combina-
tions that include Solomon’s seal, dried lily bulbs, Angelica sinensis, fox nut, codonopsis 
root, astragalus root, overlord flower, and/or dried licorice root.Handmade Lo Mein Noodles, page 8065CHAPTER FOUR
Sauces and 
Ingredients
Sesame Sauce  68
Cilantro-Sesame Oil  69
Ginger-Scallion Oil  70
Sichuan Chili Oil  71
Jeff’s Hot and Sour  
Dipping Sauce  72Chile-Lime Sauce  73
Mushroom Dumplings  74
Pork and Shrimp Dumplings  76
Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings  78
Shrimp Paste Balls  79
Handmade Lo Mein Noodles  8066Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSETTING UP YOUR SAUCE BAR
The sauce bar is essential to any hot pot meal because it allows you to personalize your eating 
experience. You don’t have to have every item on this list, but the key is to provide enough 
variety so guests can invent their dipping sauce.
PRE-MADE SAUCES
Cilantro-Sesame Oil (page 69)
Ginger-Scallion Oil (page 70)
Hoisin sauce 
Oyster sauceSa cha barbecue sauce  
(shā chá jiàng, 沙茶酱 )
Sesame Sauce (page 68)
Sichuan Chili Oil  
(page 71) or chili oilSoy sauce
Toasted sesame oil
XO sauce
VINEGARS
Chinese black vinegar Rice wine vinegar
MINCED INGREDIENTS
Cilantro Garlic Ginger
DRY SPICES
Chili powder/flakes
SaltSugar Toasted sesame seeds
OTHER
Red fermented bean curd  
(hóng fˇ urˇu, 紅腐乳 ) 67 Sauces and Ingredients1. Select an open space on your counter or sideboard to set up your sauce bar. Set 
out the ingredients you’ve selected like a salad bar, along with the bowls needed 
to mix the sauces. Include more bowls than the number of diners since some 
people will want to make multiple sauces.
2. For pre-made sauces, vinegars, wines, and fermented bean curd, leave them in 
their original containers. If you’ve made sesame sauce and/or Sichuan chili oil, 
set out a bowl of each. Plan on a cup of sesame sauce for every 3 to 4 diners and 
about a cup of chili oil. For sauces that are not easily poured, include a dedi-
cated spoon.
3. For minced ingredients, use the smallest bowls you have or ramekins. You’ll want 
a tablespoon or two per diner of each ingredient, and include a dedicated spoon 
for each minced ingredient.
4. For dry spices, leave them in their store packaging if possible. Salt and sugar can 
be in ramekins, but make sure to clearly label them and include a dedicated 
spoon for each ramekin.68Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSESAME SAUCE
Prep Time:  5 MINUTES  Makes  11⁄4 CUPS OR 5 SERVINGS  Vegan
Sesame sauce is one of the most common sauce bases in hot pot, especially in northern China. 
You can use it on its own and include it on the sauce bar for diners to use as the base of their 
personal creation. With a toasted, nutty flavor, it goes well with any broth and any ingredient.
1/2 cup Chinese sesame paste
1/2 cup water3 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1 cube (about 1 tablespoon) 
red fermented bean curd2 teaspoons sugar
11/2 teaspoons brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1. Stir the sesame paste thoroughly to re-incorporate any oil that has separated 
from the paste.
2. In a small bowl, combine the sesame paste, water, sesame oil, fermented bean 
curd, sugar, brown sugar, and salt. Use a whisk to combine into a smooth sauce.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: Chinese sesame paste is made from ground toasted sesame seeds, 
whereas tahini is made from ground raw sesame seeds. To replicate the flavor of Chinese 
sesame paste using tahini, combine 1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon of tahini with 3 tablespoons of 
toasted sesame oil to make the equivalent of 1/2 cup of Chinese sesame paste.
INGREDIENT TIP: When shopping for Chinese sesame paste, avoid the sesame-peanut 
version (zhīma huāshēngjiàng, 芝麻花生酱). It looks the same, but the taste is not. It is also 
usually poorly labeled “Sesame Paste,” with no mention of the peanuts. To ensure that you 
are getting the right type of paste, look for only the Chinese characters (芝麻酱) on the 
label, and verify the ingredient list contains no peanuts, especially if you’re allergic.69 Sauces and IngredientsCILANTRO-SESAME OIL
Prep Time:  10 MINUTES  Makes  ABOUT 11⁄2 CUPS OR 5 SERVINGS
In central and south China, an oil-based sauce is more common. This combination is easy to 
create on the fly at your sauce bar. You can also easily prepare a batch in advance for your 
diners, but it’s best made fresh not too far in advance. This goes especially well with hot and 
spicy broths, as it helps absorb some of the heat and cleanse the palate.
1 cup toasted sesame oil
1/2 cup minced cilantro
1/4 cup minced garlic1/4 cup minced scallion
21/2 cubes (about 
21/2 tablespoons) red 
 fermented bean curd2 tablespoons oyster sauce
11/4 teaspoons salt
In a medium bowl, combine the sesame oil, cilantro, garlic, scallion, fermented 
bean curd, oyster sauce, and salt. Stir to combine.70Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookGINGER-SCALLION OIL
Prep Time:  10 MINUTES  Makes  11⁄4 CUPS OR 5 SERVINGS  Vegan
Thanks to its clean, fresh taste, this oil is often used alone as a dumpling dipping sauce. It 
can also be combined with other sauces anytime you are looking to add ginger and scallion 
flavors.
21/2 tablespoons peeled grated 
fresh ginger
5 scallions, both white and 
green parts, minced2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon ground 
white pepper1 cup neutral oil (vegetable, 
canola, safflower, etc.)
1. In a medium heat-proof bowl, combine the ginger, scallions, salt, and 
white pepper.
2. In a small saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat until it reaches about 250°F. 
If you do not have an instant-read thermometer, place a bamboo chopstick or 
skewer in the oil. When small bubbles begin to form from the chopstick, the tem-
perature should be about 225 to 250°F.
3. Carefully pour the hot oil over the ingredients in the bowl; then stir to combine 
with a heat-proof utensil.
INGREDIENT TIP: You can make this ahead and store in a clean sealed glass jar. Make sure 
the oil is cooled before transferring it to the glass jar. Always use a clean utensil when using 
it, and it will keep in the refrigerator for up to a month.71 Sauces and IngredientsSICHUAN CHILI OIL
Prep Time:  10 MINUTES  Cook Time:  30 MINUTES  Makes  21⁄2 CUPS  Vegan
This versatile spicy chili oil is used in countless other classic Chinese recipes, and it adds some 
pizazz to most anything. Add it to your dipping sauce to introduce Sichuan Ma La flavors.
2 cups neutral oil (vegetable, 
canola, safflower, etc.)
4 tablespoons red Sichuan 
peppercorns
6 star anise
1 piece cinnamon stick4 pieces dried galangal root
3 garlic cloves, crushed
2 shallots, halved
2 teaspoons whole cloves
2 bay leaves2 pods black cardamom 
(optional)
1 cup Sichuan chili flakes
1 teaspoon salt
1. In a medium saucepan, combine the oil, peppercorns, star anise, cinnamon stick, 
galangal root, garlic, shallots, cloves, bay leaves, and cardamom (if using).
2. Heat the oil over medium heat for 2 minutes or until bubbles begin to form from 
the spices. Reduce the heat slightly and continue to let bubble, reducing the heat 
further if the garlic or shallots start to brown. Once the mixture is bubbling, allow 
the mixture to steep over low heat for at least 20 minutes, until the aromatics 
infuse the oil.
3. Meanwhile, in a large heat-proof bowl, place the Sichuan chili flakes.
4. Carefully strain the hot oil mixture through a fine-mesh metal strainer and into 
the bowl with the chili flakes. Discard the aromatics.
5. Stir in the salt with a heat-proof utensil. Let cool completely before serving.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: Increase or decrease the amount of chili flakes by as much as a 1/2 cup to 
change the spiciness of the finished oil.72Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookJEFF’S HOT AND SOUR DIPPING SAUCE
Prep Time:  5 MINUTES  Makes  ABOUT 11⁄4 CUPS OR 5 SERVINGS  Vegan
I’ve been making variations of this simple dipping sauce for hot pot and dumplings for as long 
as I can remember. You can use plain hot chili oil and rice wine vinegar, but Sichuan chili oil 
and Zhenjiang vinegar each bring an additional depth of flavor if you have them.
10 tablespoons Sichuan Chili 
Oil (page 71)
3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon 
Chinese Zhenjiang vinegar5 teaspoons soy sauce
5 teaspoons toasted sesame oil5 teaspoons minced scallion, 
both white and green parts
5 teaspoons minced garlic
In a small bowl, combine the chili oil, vinegar, soy sauce, sesame oil, scallion, and 
ginger. Stir to combine.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: If you don’t have homemade Sichuan chili oil, you can use any number 
of store-bought chili oil options, such as basic Asian hot chili oil, a Lao Gan Ma brand chili 
oil, or another favorite of mine, Lee Kum Kee’s Guizhou-Style Black Bean Chili Sauce.73 Sauces and IngredientsCHILE-LIME SAUCE
Prep Time:  5 MINUTES  Makes  ABOUT 11⁄4 CUPS OR 5 SERVINGS  Vegan
The combination of lime and chiles creates a flavor that is reminiscent of Thai and Vietnamese 
foods. It goes especially well with the Hainan Chicken-Coconut Broth (page 53).
1/4 cup minced fresh chiles
1/4 cup peeled minced 
fresh ginger
1/4 cup minced garlic1/4 cup rice wine vinegar
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lime 
juice (about 2 limes)
1/4 cup minced fresh cilantro5 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
5 teaspoons sugar
5 teaspoons water or broth
2 1/2 teaspoons salt
In a small bowl, combine the chiles, ginger, garlic, vinegar, lime juice, cilantro, 
sesame oil, sugar, water, and salt and stir to dissolve the sugar and salt.74Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookMUSHROOM DUMPLINGS
Prep Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Cook Time:  10 MINUTES  Makes  36 TO 
48 DUMPLINGS  Vegan
This vegetable dumpling packs a flavorful and juicy punch without any meat, thanks to the 
mushroom filling. To create the juiciness, this recipe includes a few tablespoons of oil infused 
with ginger, scallions, and garlic. Together, they provide rich flavors that are just as satisfying 
as a meaty dumpling.
3 tablespoons neutral 
oil  (vegetable, canola, 
 safflower, etc.), divided
2 cups finely chopped 
 mushrooms of choice 
( shiitake, portobello, 
oyster, etc.)
3 cups finely chopped 
 Chinese cabbage2 large carrots, grated
4 scallions, both green and 
white parts, minced
1 tablespoon peeled minced 
fresh ginger
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tablespoon soy sauce1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1 (12- to 16-ounce) package 
round dumpling wrappers 
(or make your own; see 
page 81)
1. In a wok or large frying pan, heat 1 tablespoon of oil over high heat until it 
shimmers. Add the mushrooms and stir-fry until they release their liquid, about 
2 minutes. Continue to cook until the liquid has evaporated, about 1 minute.
2. Add the cabbage and carrots and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Add the scallions, ginger, 
and garlic and stir-fry for another 30 seconds, or until all the liquid has evapo-
rated. Remove from heat.
3. Transfer the filling mixture to a medium bowl and stir in the soy sauce, the 
remaining 2 tablespoons of oil, the sesame oil, and white pepper. Set aside on 
the counter and allow to cool completely.75 Sauces and Ingredients4. Place a dumpling wrapper on a work surface or cutting board. Using your finger -
tip, moisten half the interior edge of a wrapper with water.
5. Place about a tablespoon of filling onto the center of a wrapper. Fold the edge 
over the filling to form a semicircle and press the edge to seal. Repeat with the 
remaining wrappers and filling.
INGREDIENT TIP: If using dried mushrooms, rehydrate them first in a bowl of hot water. 
Make sure to trim any woody stems from your mushrooms, whether fresh or dry.76Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookPORK AND SHRIMP DUMPLINGS
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Cook Time:  10 MINUTES  Makes  36 TO 48 DUMPLINGS
Some of my earliest memories of cooking in the kitchen are folding dumplings as a child. These 
dumplings are great for boiling in your hot pot, but they can also be steamed or steam-fried on 
their own.
4 scallions, both white and 
green parts, minced
2 tablespoons peeled minced 
fresh ginger
1/4 teaspoon Chinese 
five-spice powder2 tablespoons neutral 
oil (vegetable, canola, 
safflower, etc.)
2/3 pound ground pork
1/3 pound shrimp, shelled and 
deveined, chopped
2 cups finely chopped 
Napa cabbage1 tablespoon Shaoxing wine
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1/2 cup water
1 (12- to 16-ounce) package 
round dumpling wrappers 
(or make your own; see 
page 81)
1. TO MAKE THE FILLING:  In a large heat-proof bowl, combine the scallions, ginger, 
and five-spice powder.
2. In a small saucepan, heat the oil. When the oil is hot enough, bubbles will form 
when you place the tip of a bamboo skewer or chopstick into the oil. Carefully 
pour the hot oil over the ingredients in the large bowl; then stir to combine.
3. Add the pork, shrimp, cabbage, wine, and soy sauce to the oil mixture and stir to 
combine. Stir the filling mixture vigorously in one direction for at least 2 minutes. 
The filling will get shiny and paste-like. This will help trap moisture as well as lead 
to a firmer texture when cooked.
4. Add the water; then stir for another 60 seconds or until the water is fully incorpo-
rated with no standing water.77 Sauces and Ingredients5. TO MAKE THE DUMPLINGS:  Place a dumpling wrapper on a work surface or a 
cutting board. Using your fingertip, moisten half of the interior edge of a wrapper 
with water.
6. Place about a tablespoon of filling onto the center of a wrapper. Fold the edge 
over the filling to form a semicircle and press the edge to seal. Repeat with the 
remaining wrappers and filling.
PREP TIP: Dumplings are easy to overfill. If you need a visual reference, 1 tablespoon of 
filling would be a ball about 11/4 inch in diameter.78Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookXINJIANG LAMB DUMPLINGS
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Cook Time:  10 MINUTES  Makes  36 TO 48 DUMPLINGS
This recipe is inspired by dumplings from the western Xinjiang province where the Silk Road 
extended into central Asia. They include flavors from both East and West! Lamb has a stronger 
flavor than beef or pork, and when combined with cumin and black pepper, these dumplings 
are much richer than what you find in most American Chinese restaurants.
1 pound ground lamb
1 small red onion, 
finely chopped
2 tablespoons peeled minced 
fresh ginger
2 garlic cloves, minced1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1/2 cup water1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 (12- to 16-ounce) package 
round dumpling wrappers 
(or make your own; see 
page 81)
1. TO MAKE THE FILLING:  In a large bowl, combine the lamb, onion, ginger, garlic, 
cumin, coriander, and pepper. Stir the filling mixture vigorously in one direction for 
at least 2 minutes. The filling will get shiny and paste-like. This will help trap mois -
ture as well as lead to a firmer texture when cooked.
2. Add the water and soy sauce and stir again in the same direction until the liquid 
is fully incorporated, or at least 60 seconds.
3. TO MAKE THE DUMPLINGS:  Place a dumpling wrapper on a work surface. Using 
your fingertip, moisten half the interior edge of a wrapper with water.
4. Place about a tablespoon of filling onto the center of a wrapper. Fold the edge 
over the filling to form a semicircle and press the edge to seal. Repeat with the 
remaining wrappers and filling.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can use the same dough used for Handmade Lo Mein Noodles 
(page 80) to make wrappers for these dumplings. Dumplings made with homemade wrap-
pers will have a more toothsome chew that is similar to most restaurant dumplings.79 Sauces and IngredientsSHRIMP PASTE BALLS
Prep Time:  15 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO CHILL  Cook Time:  5 MINUTES   
Makes  12 BALLS
Shrimp balls are a very popular hot pot ingredient. Though they’re generally only available at 
an Asian grocery, the good news is they are easy to make! I don’t know why, but I sometimes 
think that shrimp balls have more shrimp flavor than actual shrimp.
8 ounces shrimp, shelled and 
deveined
1 teaspoon cornstarch1 teaspoon Shaoxing wine
1/2 teaspoon salt1/2 teaspoon ground 
white pepper
1. In a food processor, pulse the shrimp in 2-second bursts 6 to 8 times, or until the 
shrimp is very finely minced but retains some texture.
2. Transfer the minced shrimp to a medium bowl and add the cornstarch, wine, salt, 
and white pepper.
3. Using chopsticks, stir the shrimp mixture vigorously in one direction for 
30 seconds; then give yourself a rest. Repeat the stirring process 15 times. The 
mixture will become shiny and more paste-like.
4. Cover the mixture and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.
5. When ready for hot pot, use a pair of spoons to form 12 equal-size balls (about an 
inch in diameter) and lower them gently into the boiling hot pot broth. When they 
float, let them cook through for another minute, about 4 minutes total.80 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHANDMADE LO MEIN NOODLES
Prep Time:  1 HOUR  Cook Time:  5 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
Making lo mein noodles from scratch is simpler than you may think! The only tools you need 
are a rolling pin and a knife. You can also use this dough (see tip) to make dumpling wrappers 
for Mushroom Dumplings (page 74), Pork and Shrimp Dumplings (page 76), or Xinjiang Lamb 
Dumplings (page 78).
2 cups bread flour, plus more 
for dusting1/2 cup water 1/4 teaspoon salt
1. In a large, wide bowl, combine the flour, water, and salt.
2. Using chopsticks, stir the mixture until the water is absorbed. The dough will not 
be a cohesive ball but lots of small clumps. Using your hand, form the dough into 
a ball and knead it for 30 seconds. The dough will feel dry and stiff at this stage.
3. Cover the dough with another bowl. Let the dough rest for 15 minutes; then knead 
it for 30 seconds. Cover again and let it rest for another 15 minutes. Knead it one 
last time for 30 seconds. Cover and let rest one final time for another 15 minutes. 
Do not skip the rest periods. It’s okay if a rest period exceeds 15 minutes. At each 
stage, you will notice the dough becoming smoother and softer.
4. To begin rolling out the dough, divide the dough in half. Place one half back in 
the bowl and cover while you work on the other half.
5. Lightly dust a work surface and rolling pin with flour. Roll out the dough into a 
long rectangular shape until it is about 1/8 inch thick or less. Dust with more flour as 
needed. If the dough springs back, making it difficult to roll it thinly enough, cover 
with a clean dish towel, let the dough rest for 10 minutes to relax the gluten, and 
then resume rolling.81 Sauces and Ingredients6. Dust generously with more flour. Fold the dough over once so the two long 
edges meet.
7. Cut into your desired noodle width, usually 1/8 to 1/2 inch wide. Slice rather than 
chop to avoid pressing down and sealing the noodle edges. Gently transfer the 
cut noodles to a plate and dust with more flour to prevent sticking. Cover with a 
clean dish towel until ready to use.
INGREDIENT TIP: To use this recipe to make dumpling wrappers for any of the recipes in 
this book, combine 3 cups of bread flour, 3/4 cup of water, and 1/4 teaspoon of salt to make 
enough dough for 36 dumplings. At step 4, use one-third of the dough and roll it with your 
hands into a thick rope. Divide this into quarters; then divide each of these into three equal 
pieces. Roll each piece into a ball; then press flat onto a work surface with the heel of your 
hand. Using a small rolling pin, roll into a 3-inch wrapper.Wild Mushroom Hot Pot, page 8483CHAPTER FIVE
Vegetable Hot Pots
Wild Mushroom Hot Pot 84
Path to  
Enlightenment Hot Pot 86
Vegan Mandarin Duck  
Hot Pot 88Guizhou Dragon  
T ooth Hot Pot 90
T omato Broth Hot Pot 92
Spicy T omato Yuān  
Yāng Hot Pot 94
 
This chapter’s recipes are more pairing suggestions than conventional recipes. 
The formal cooking happens when you make your broth and/or sides. A few 
reminders to share with your diners:
• Everyone can personalize their meal by cooking their choice of ingredi-
ents a couple of bites at a time.
• Cook a couple of ingredients at a time and avoid overcrowding the hot 
pot, as that slows cooking times for everyone. Don’t cook your whole 
meal at once!
• Some ingredients take longer to cook, like taro root, so while they cook, 
cook something that takes less time, like tofu.
• Traditionally, noodles are cooked late in a meal when the broth has 
absorbed more flavors from cooking, but remember: The only rule of hot 
pot is that there are no hot pot rules!
• Refer to chapter 2 for ingredient prep and cooking times if needed and 
chapter 6 for more tips.84 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookWILD MUSHROOM HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  2 HOURS 15 MINUTES   
Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
You will be hard-pressed to find the same variety of wild mushrooms in your grocery store as 
foragers do in the mountains of the Yunnan province. However, more and more grocery stores 
are carrying a larger variety of cultivated mushrooms, like shiitake, enoki, shimeji, and king 
trumpet. Experiment with what you can find!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Yunnan Mushroom 
Broth (page 46)
12 Mushroom Dumplings 
(page 74)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
Sichuan Chili Oil (page 71)6 ounces dried mung bean 
(glass) noodles
11/2 pounds fresh mushrooms 
of choice
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces dwarf bok choy, 
halved lengthwise
8 ounces choy sum, cut into 
1-inch-wide pieces1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
1 medium delicata squash, 
halved, seeded, and cut into 
1/2-inch-thick pieces
1. Prepare the broth, dumplings, cilantro-sesame oil, and chili oil according to 
instructions.
2. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in warm water for 15 minutes, or until pliable. 
Set aside.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, mushrooms, tofu, 
bok choy, choy sum, lotus root, and squash on large plates and setting them on 
the table.85 Vegetable Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil and 
chili oil, and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A British or Irish stout’s sweet, full-bodied flavor goes well with the earthy and 
savory flavors of mushrooms.
INGREDIENT TIP: To allow the tofu to absorb more broth and flavor, compress it using a 
weight to squeeze out its liquid before cutting into cubes. To press out even more water, 
freeze the tofu in its original packaging; then defrost and compress.86Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookPATH TO ENLIGHTENMENT HOT POT
Prep  Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES, PLUS 8 HOURS TO 
PRE-SOAK   Makes 4 SERVINGS  Vegan
One Buddhist food tradition centers around the giving of food to hungry ghosts. The hungry 
ghost represents greed and attachment. By giving away something you crave, you release 
yourself from some of your greed and attachments. Try starting your hot pot meal by adding 
your  favorite ingredient to the hot pot and giving it away to a hungry ghost or one of your 
fellow diners! Additionally, when preparing your dumplings, leave out the garlic and scallions 
if you wish to adhere to the Buddhist prohibition of the five pungent spices.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Buddhist Clear Broth 
(page 63)
1 batch Sesame Sauce (page 68)
12 Mushroom Dumplings 
(page 74)2 to 3 ounces dried bean 
curd stick
16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
12 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(enoki, oyster, king 
trumpet, etc.)
8 ounces Chinese broccoli, cut 
into 1-inch pieces
8 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces8 ounces spinach
6 ounces pressed tofu, cut into 
bite-size pieces
1/2 small acorn squash (about 
8 to 12 ounces), seeded and 
cut into 1-inch cubes
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs
1. Prepare the broth, sesame sauce, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. In a 9-by-13-inch casserole dish, soak the bean curd stick in cool water. Cover and 
allow to soak for at least 8 hours before draining and cutting into 2-inch pieces.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, prepared bean 
curd stick, noodles, mushrooms, Chinese broccoli, tatsoi, spinach, pressed tofu, 
acorn squash, lotus root, and sweet potato on large plates and setting them on 
the table.87 Vegetable Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the sesame sauce, and set the 
table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: If you are following Buddhist food prohibitions, then skip the beer and instead 
try a Chinese oolong or jasmine tea.88Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookVEGAN MANDARIN DUCK HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  2 HOURS  Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
This recipe is a Mandarin duck pot (yuān yāng, 鸳鸯 )  that includes two broths, one spicy 
and one mild. The Sichuan Green Ma La broth is not oily like the red version, so it goes better 
with leafy greens and tofu. Remember that spicy flavor compounds dissolve in oil, so both 
the Cilantro-Sesame Oil and the Ginger-Scallion Oil are not only flavorful but can help mute 
the heat.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Mandarin Duck Clear 
Broth (page 39)
1 batch Sichuan Green Ma La 
Broth (page 40)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
1 batch Ginger-Scallion Oil 
(page 70)
12 Mushroom Dumplings 
(page 74)6 ounces dried rice noodles
12 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(portobello, maitake, 
enoki, etc.)
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces fried bean curd
8 ounces fresh tofu skin, cut 
into 2-inch squares
8 ounces baby bok choy, cut 
into 1-inch strips8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces choy sum, cut into 
1-inch-wide pieces
1 large Yukon Gold potato, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs
2 ears corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1. Prepare the broths, cilantro-sesame oil, ginger-scallion oil, and dumplings 
according to instructions.
2. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in hot water for 30 minutes, or according to 
package instructions. Set aside.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, mushrooms, tofu, 
fried bean curd, tofu skin, bok choy, cabbage, choy sum, potato, sweet potato, 
and corn onto large plates and setting them on the table.89 Vegetable Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the broth to a boil over high heat. You’ll 
need to either use a split hot pot or two individual hot pot setups.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil and 
ginger-scallion oil, and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: The light flavor of a pale lager like Tsingtao beer is a great accompaniment to 
a spicy broth.90 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookGUIZHOU DRAGON TOOTH HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  3 HOURS, PLUS 8 HOURS TO PRE-SOAK  
Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
This hot pot uses a regional broth from the Guizhou province that features pickled mustard 
greens. During my visit to Guizhou, I visited a rural elementary school in a small village located 
at the base of a dragon tooth mountain and surrounded by rice paddies. The horizon was a 
collection of triangular dragon tooth mountains like Chinese landscape paintings you’ve prob -
ably seen. As a child, I always thought these paintings were fantasy, but I now know they are 
real-life landscape paintings.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Guizhou Pickled Greens 
and Bean Broth (page 44)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Mushroom Dumplings 
(page 74)2 to 3 ounces dried bean 
curd stick
4 ounces dried tofu knots
16 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
16 ounces fresh 
wonton noodles
12 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(shiitake, shimeji, 
oyster, etc.)1/4 small sugar pumpkin (about 
8 to 12 ounces), cut into 
1-inch cubes
8 ounces bok choy, cut into 
1-inch strips
8 ounces choy sum, cut into 
1-inch-wide pieces
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. In a 9-by-13-inch casserole dish, soak the bean curd stick in cool water. Cover and 
allow to soak for at least 8 hours before draining and cutting into 2-inch pieces.
3. In a medium bowl, soak the tofu knots in water for 20 minutes.
4. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, tofu, noodles, mush-
rooms, pumpkin, bok choy, choy sum, and lotus root on large plates and setting 
them on the table.
5. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.91 Vegetable Hot Pots6. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
7. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the bean curd stick and tofu knots and 
transfer to medium bowls to serve.
8. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A farmhouse ale (also called Belgian saison) has a refreshing, citrusy flavor. 
Pale to golden-colored, the farmhouse ale has a medium body and citrus that will stand 
up to and complement the sourness of the broth.92Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookTOMATO BROTH HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES, PLUS  
8 HOURS TO PRE-SOAK  Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
A tomato broth hot pot is a simple way to bring a savory flavor to your ingredients. This is one of 
the few ubiquitous uses of tomatoes in Chinese cuisine. Interestingly, one of our most common 
uses of tomatoes, ketchup, originated as a Chinese condiment. First brought back by British 
sailors as a fermented fish sauce more like today’s Worcestershire sauce, it has evolved into 
the tomato-based condiment found in many American households.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Tomato Broth  
(page 62)
1 batch Jeff’s Hot and Sour 
Dipping Sauce (page 72)
12 Mushroom Dumplings 
(page 74)2 to 3 ounces dried bean 
curd stick
6 ounces dried mung bean 
(glass) noodles
16 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
12 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(shiitake, enoki, wood 
ear, etc.)
8 ounces fried bean curd8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces baby bok choy, cut 
into 1-inch strips
1 large Yukon Gold potato, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
1 medium peeled taro root, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
1 small butternut squash, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1. Prepare the broth, hot and sour dipping sauce, and dumplings according to 
instructions.
2. In a 9-by-13-inch casserole dish, soak the bean curd stick in cool water. Cover and 
allow to soak for at least 8 hours before draining and cutting into 2-inch pieces.
3. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in warm water for 15 minutes, or until pliable. 
Set aside.
4. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, tofu, mushrooms, 
fried bean curd, cabbage, bok choy, potato, taro root, and squash on large 
plates and setting them on the table.93 Vegetable Hot Pots5. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
6. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the hot and sour sauce, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
7. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to medium bowls 
to serve.
8. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A Pilsner introduces a slight bitterness that helps balance the bright, acidic 
tomato broth.94Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSPICY TOMATO YUĀN YĀNG HOT POT
Prep Time:  30 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  2 HOURS 30 MINUTES   
Makes   4 SERVINGS  Vegan
One common dual hot pot combination is the classic spicy Sichuan Red Ma La Broth (page 38)  
and mild Tomato Broth (page 62). This version switches the spicy to the tomato broth and pairs 
it with the simple Mandarin Duck Clear Broth. The spicy tomato broth is less intense than the 
other spicy broths and is a good starter for those less accustomed to the heat!
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Sichuan Spicy Tomato 
Broth (page 41)
1 batch Mandarin Duck Clear 
Broth (page 39)
1 batch Jeff’s Hot and Sour 
Sauce (page 72)
12 Mushroom Dumplings (see 
page 74)8 ounces dried tofu knots
16 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces fresh tofu skin, cut 
into 2-inch squares
8 ounces Chinese broccoli, cut 
into 1-inch pieces
8 ounces bok choy, cut into 
1-inch strips
8 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(king trumpet, oyster, etc.)
1 large Yukon Gold potato, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
8 ounces daikon radish, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
16 ounces fresh tofu noodles
1. Prepare the broths, hot and sour dipping sauce, and dumplings according to 
instructions.
2. In a medium bowl, soak the tofu knots in water for 20 minutes.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the dumplings, tofu, tofu skin, Chi-
nese broccoli, bok choy, tatsoi, mushrooms, potato, daikon radish, lotus root, and 
noodles on large plates and setting them on the table.95 Vegetable Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the broth to a boil over high heat. You’ll 
need to use either a split hot pot or two individual hot pot setups.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the hot and sour dipping 
sauce, and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the tofu knots and transfer to a medium 
bowl to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A Pilsner introduces a slight bitterness that helps balance the bright, acidic 
tomato broth.
INGREDIENT TIP: To allow the tofu to absorb more broth and flavor, compress it using a 
weight to squeeze out its liquid before cutting into cubes. To press out even more water, 
freeze the tofu in its original packaging; then defrost and compress.Hainan Island Hot Pot , page 11697CHAPTER SIX
Meat and Seafood 
Hot Pots
Northern Yuān Yāng Hot Pot 98
DaBanJi Hot Pot 100
Northern Beef and  
Lamb Hot Pot 102
Cantonese Hot Pot 104
Ruby’s Holiday Hot Pot 106
Weeknight Hot Pot 108
The Admirals’  
Banquet Hot Pot 110Mazu’s Ocean Feast  
Hot Pot 112
Guizhou Fisherman’s  
Hot Pot 114
Hainan Island Hot Pot 116
Drunken Chicken Hot Pot 118
Immortality Hot Pot 120
Sheep Scorpion Hot Pot 122
Like in chapter 5, these recipes are suggested pairing lists rather than con-
ventional recipes. Let your personal tastes and the availability of ingredients 
guide you. Feel free to substitute one leafy green vegetable or one protein for 
another. What’s most important is to have a mix of proteins, leafy vegetables, 
and starches to provide balance. Dipping sauces should be personal, too, so 
try my suggestions, but also make up your own creation! See chapter 5 for 
more tips for your hot pot meal.98Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookNORTHERN YUĀN YĀNG HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  3 HOURS, PLUS 8 HOURS TO PRE-SOAK  
Makes   4 SERVINGS  
This classic yuān yāng hot pot combines a spicy Sichuan broth with a simple clear broth. Cap -
saicin, the chemical responsible for the spiciness of chili peppers, is fat-soluble. Sesame paste 
and sesame oil are often paired with spicy broths and can help dissolve capsaicin. In Sich -
uan province, a bottle of sesame oil is as ubiquitous at hot pot as ketchup is at an American 
burger joint.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Sichuan Red Ma La 
Broth (page 38)
1 batch Heilongjiang Clear 
Broth (page 50)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
1 batch Sesame Sauce (page 68)
8 Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings 
(page 78)2 to 3 ounces dried bean 
curd stick
16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces spinach
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(cremini, wood ear, etc.)
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs1/2 small acorn squash  
(8 to 12 ounces), cut 
into cubes
8 ounces rib-eye steak, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces beef short rib, 
thinly sliced
8 ounce beef tripe, 
thinly sliced
8 Chinese beef meatballs
1. Prepare the broths, cilantro-sesame oil, sesame sauce, and dumplings according 
to instructions.
2. In a 9-by-13 inch casserole dish, soak the bean curd stick in cool water. Cover and 
allow to soak for at least 8 hours before draining and cutting into 2-inch pieces.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, spinach, cabbage, 
mushrooms, lotus root, and acorn squash on plates and setting them on the 
table. Keep the dumplings, steak, short rib, tripe, and meatballs refrigerated 
until right before the meal.99 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the broth to a boil over high heat. You’ll 
need to use either a split hot pot or two individual hot pot setups.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil and 
sesame sauce, and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: For more heat, go for an India pale ale (IPA). Its higher alcohol content and 
bitter notes are known to enhance the spiciness. If you don’t want to compound the burn-
ing in your mouth, try a Bohemian pilsner.100 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookDABANJI HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  2 HOURS 15 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
Celebrate one of western China’s iconic dishes, DaBanJi, or “big plate chicken,” with this hot 
pot combination. The beer-braised chicken and the broth owe much of their flavor to Xinjiang 
province’s Wusu beer. Now owned by the Danish beer company Carlsberg, Wusu beers are 
becoming more available in the United States.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth 
(page 58) and reserved 
cooked wings and thighs
1 batch Ginger-Scallion Oil 
(page 70)
1 batch Sesame Sauce (page 68)
8 Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings 
(page 78)6 ounces dried mung bean 
(glass) noodles
4 ounces fresh bean curd skin, 
cut into 2-inch squares
8 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces
4 ounces shimeji mushrooms
2 green bell peppers, cut into 
1-inch pieces2 large carrots, cut on the bias 
into 1/4-inch-thick pieces
1 large peeled potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs
8 ounces brisket, thinly sliced
8 ounces rib-eye steak, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces beef tongue, 
thinly sliced
8 Chinese beef meatballs
1. Prepare the broth, ginger-scallion oil, sesame sauce, and dumplings according to 
instructions.
2. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in warm water for 15 minutes, or until pliable. 
Set aside.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the bean curd skin, tatsoi, mush-
rooms, bell peppers, carrots, and potato on plates and setting them on the table. 
Keep the dumplings, brisket, steak, tongue, meatballs, and cooked chicken refrig-
erated until right before the meal.
4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.101 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the ginger-scallion oil and 
sesame sauce, and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: Xinjiang Wusu Black Beer or an amber or brown ale will complement the 
strong flavors of the broth and meats.102 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookNORTHERN BEEF AND LAMB HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  2 HOURS  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
Lamb and mutton are more commonly consumed in Chinese cuisine, especially in north -
ern China, than they are in the United States. In many northern regions including Beijing, 
lamb is often a central focus of the hot pot experience. This duo combines lamb and beef to 
accommodate the availability of beef products in the United States with the tradition of lamb 
in China.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Mandarin Lamb Broth 
(page 49)
1 batch Sesame Sauce (page 68)
Sichuan Chili Oil (page 71)
12 Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings 
(page 78)6 ounces dried rice noodles
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces dwarf bok choy, 
halved lengthwise
8 ounces Chinese broccoli, cut 
into 1-inch strips
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(button, wood ear, etc.)
1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs1 medium peeled taro root, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
8 ounces brisket, thinly sliced
8 ounces beef short rib, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces lamb shoulder, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
4 ounces beef liver, thick-cut 
and crosshatched
1. Prepare the broth, sesame sauce, chili oil, and dumplings according to 
instructions.
2. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in hot water for 30 minutes, or according to 
package instructions. Set aside.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the tofu, bok choy, Chinese broccoli, 
mushrooms, sweet potato, and taro root on plates and setting them on the table. 
Keep the dumplings, brisket, short rib, lamb shoulder, shrimp, and liver refriger -
ated until right before the meal.
4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.103 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the sesame sauce and chili oil, 
and set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: An English brown ale’s malty full-bodied flavor complements this 
meat-forward hot pot.
INGREDIENT TIP: To allow the tofu to absorb more broth and flavor, compress it using a 
weight to squeeze out its liquid before cutting into cubes. To press out even more water, 
freeze the tofu in its original packaging; then defrost and compress.104 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookCANTONESE HOT POT
Prep Time:  30 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 45 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
Cantonese cuisine is the cuisine of southern China and the Guangdong province. It is the most 
common style of Chinese food found in the United States since most of the early immigrants 
from China were from Guangdong province. Cantonese cuisine is light and sometimes slightly 
sweet, allowing you to taste the ingredients, as opposed to the more heavily sauced Sichuan 
cuisine where the dominant flavor is sometimes a fermented bean sauce. This hot pot combi -
nation will allow you to enjoy each ingredient’s unique flavor.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Cantonese Pork Bone 
Broth (page 52)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Shrimp Paste Balls (page 79)
8 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)6 ounces dried rice noodles
8 ounces bok choy, cut into 
1-inch strips
8 ounces spinach
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(enoki, shiitake, etc.)
6 ounces pressed tofu, cut into 
bite-size pieces
1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs1 small butternut squash, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces pork belly, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces Chinese lap cheong 
sausage, sliced on the bias 
into 1/4-inch-thick pieces
8 ounces pork tripe, 
thinly sliced
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, shrimp paste balls, and dumplings accord-
ing to instructions.
2. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in hot water for 30 minutes, or according to 
package instructions. Set aside.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the bok choy, spinach, mushrooms, 
tofu, sweet potato, and squash on plates and setting them on the table. Keep 
the shrimp paste balls, dumplings, pork belly, sausage, and tripe refrigerated 
until right before the meal.105 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A sour beer like Flanders red ale or an American sour goes well with the fatti-
ness of the pork belly and Chinese sausage.106 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookRUBY’S HOLIDAY HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
This hot pot is an homage to my grandmother Ruby, who hosted many family hot pot dinners, 
especially around the Christmas and New Year’s holidays. The Spam in this recipe represents 
the leftover ham or turkey from those gatherings. She also always had sliced kielbasa sau -
sage. Although not all of these ingredients are Chinese, this hot pot is a great way to enjoy the 
company of loved ones.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Hunan Cured Meat 
Broth (page 48) and reserved 
cooked daikon radish
1 batch Jeff’s Hot and Sour 
Dipping Sauce (page 72)
12 Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings 
(page 78)16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(maitake, enoki, etc.)1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
1 (12-ounce) can Spam, cut into 
3/4-inch cubes
8 ounces pork loin, thinly sliced
8 ounces pork belly, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces kielbasa sausage, 
sliced on the bias into 
1/4-inch-thick pieces
1. Prepare the broth, hot and sour dipping sauce, and dumplings according to 
instructions.
2. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, tofu, cabbage, tatsoi, 
mushrooms, and lotus root on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the 
dumplings, Spam, pork loin, pork belly, and sausage refrigerated until right before 
the meal.
3. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the broth and daikon radish to a boil 
over high heat.
4. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the hot and sour sauce, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.107 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. When the broth comes to a boil, bring out the refrigerated ingredients.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: An American porter’s strong malty sweetness and smoothness will comple-
ment the smoky and salty flavors from the cured and smoked meats.
INGREDIENT TIP: To allow the tofu to absorb more broth and flavor, compress it using a 
weight to squeeze out its liquid before cutting into cubes. To press out even more water, 
freeze the tofu in its original packaging; then defrost and compress.108 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookWEEKNIGHT HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  45 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
The Heilongjiang Clear Broth is supposed to allow you to taste the ingredients you are cooking 
rather than the broth. Its simplicity also lets you pull together this entire hot pot in a relatively 
short time. If you have dumplings already made in the freezer, you could be starting your hot 
pot in as much time as it takes you to prep your ingredients and set the table.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Heilongjiang Clear 
Broth (page 50)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)
1 pound live clams or other 
shellfish (see page 33)16 ounces fresh 
wonton noodles
8 ounces spinach
8 ounces Chinese broccoli, cut 
into 1-inch strips
1/4 small sugar pumpkin (about 
8 to 12 ounces), cut into 
1-inch cubes
1 medium peeled taro root, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
6 ounces pressed tofu, cut into 
bite-size pieces4 ounces fresh shiitake 
mushrooms
8 ounces pork belly, 
thinly sliced
8 Chinese pork meatballs
8 fish balls
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. Place the clams in a large bowl and keep cold in the refrigerator.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, spinach, Chinese broc -
coli, pumpkin, taro root, tofu, and mushrooms on plates and setting them on the 
table. Keep the dumplings, pork belly, meatballs, and fish balls refrigerated until 
right before the meal.
4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.109 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, bring out the refrigerated ingredients.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A Belgian white is a light and refreshing beer with a slight citrus flavor that 
won’t overwhelm the flavors of the food.110 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookTHE ADMIRALS’ BANQUET HOT POT
Prep  Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES, PLUS 8 HOURS TO 
PRE-SOAK   Makes   4 SERVINGS  
My great-great-grandfather Wei Han and great-grandfather Mao Zhong-Fang and his two 
brothers were all admirals in the Chinese navy. Their service spanned from the Qing dynasty 
to the Chinese Republic. This hot pot combines many of my favorite foods, including lobster 
from my home in Maine and the Fujian Seafood Broth inspired by Fujian cuisine where my 
family has lived for over 500 years.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Fujian Seafood Broth 
(page 56) and reserved 
cooked lobster or crabmeat
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)2 to 3 ounces dried bean 
curd stick
6 ounces dried rice noodles
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces baby bok choy, cut 
into 1-inch strips
4 ounces fresh shimeji 
mushrooms2 ears corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1 small daikon radish
12 ounces sea bass, 
sliced on the bias into 
1/4-inch-thick pieces
8 ounces shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
8 fish balls
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. In a 9-by-13-inch casserole dish, soak the bean curd stick in cool water. Cover and 
soak for at least 8 hours before draining and cutting into 2-inch pieces.
3. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in hot water for 30 minutes, or according to 
package instructions. Set aside.
4. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the cabbage, bok choy, mushrooms, 
corn, and daikon radish on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the dump-
lings, sea bass, shrimp, fish balls, and cooked lobster or crabmeat refrigerated 
until right before the meal.111 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the broth to a boil over high heat.
6. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
7. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the noodles and transfer to a medium bowl 
to serve.
8. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can alter the ratio of pork to shrimp in the dumpling filling. For this 
hot pot, try a 1:2 ratio of pork to shrimp rather than the 2:1 ratio in the recipe.
PAIRING TIP: A Belgian witbier or American wheat beer is a classic pairing with lobster. 
Lemony with a hint of coriander, wheat beers are often cloudy, not clear. I like Allagash 
White from Allagash Brewing in Portland, Maine.112Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookMAZU’S OCEAN FEAST HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
Legends say that Mazu was a real woman who lived from 960 to 987 CE. Born on Meizhou 
Island, Fujian province, she is worshipped as a goddess and considered a protector of 
 fishermen and sailors by coastal populations and many Taiwanese. Many of Taiwan’s 
 earliest residents came from Fujian.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Cantonese Congee 
Broth (page 51)
1 batch Chile-Lime Sauce 
(page 73)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)4 ounces dried tofu knots
1 pound live clams or other 
shellfish (see page 33)
16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(wood ear, king 
trumpet, etc.)
6 ounces spinach
6 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces6 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
12 ounces cod or haddock, 
sliced on the bias into 
1/4-inch-thick pieces
8 ounces shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
8 ounces squid, cut into 2-inch 
squares and crosshatched
1. Prepare the broth, chile-lime sauce, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. In a medium bowl, soak the tofu knots in water for 20 minutes.
3. Prepare the shellfish, place in a large bowl, and keep cold in the refrigerator.
4. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, mushrooms, spinach, 
tatsoi, cabbage, and lotus root on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the 
dumplings, cod, shrimp, and squid refrigerated until right before the meal.
5. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.113 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots6. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the chile-lime sauce, and set 
the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
7. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the tofu knots and transfer to a medium 
bowl to serve.
8. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: Try substituting ground chicken for the ground pork in the dumpling 
filling. You can also add 1/4 cup of diced water chestnuts if you like a little crunch.
PAIRING TIP: A farmhouse ale (also called Belgian saison) has a refreshing, zesty, and citrusy 
flavor. Pale to golden-colored farmhouse ales go well with seafood.114 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookGUIZHOU FISHERMAN’S HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
The broth for this hot pot is flavored both by poaching the fish in the broth and from pickled 
sour mustard greens. The preparation of the broth will result in a good portion of cooked fish 
to kick-start your meal.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Guizhou Sour Fish 
Broth (page 42) and reserved 
cooked fish
1 batch Ginger-Scallion Oil 
(page 70)
12 Shrimp Paste Balls (page 79)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)1 pound clams or other 
shellfish
16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces fried bean curd
8 ounces choy sum, cut into 
1-inch-wide pieces
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
4 ounces fresh shimeji 
mushrooms1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs
2 ears corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1. Prepare the broth, ginger-scallion oil, shrimp paste balls, and dumplings accord-
ing to instructions.
2. Prepare the shellfish, place in a large bowl, and keep cold in the refrigerator.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, fried bean curd, choy 
sum, cabbage, mushrooms, sweet potato, corn, and reserved cooked fish on 
plates and setting them on the table. Keep the shrimp paste balls and dumplings 
refrigerated until right before the meal.
4. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.115 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the ginger-scallion oil, and set 
the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, set out the refrigerated ingredients.
7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: A medium-bodied German or Belgian Lager is robust enough to stand up to 
the sourness of the broth.116 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookHAINAN ISLAND HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 15 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
The hot pot combination brings a uniquely tropical flavor profile from the coconut water used 
in the broth along with the chile-lime sauce that is commonly paired with Hainan chicken. It 
also will include poached chicken from the broth preparation, which you can heat in the broth 
or eat at room temperature.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Hainan 
Chicken-Coconut Broth 
(page 53) and reserved 
poached chicken
1 batch Chile-Lime Sauce 
(page 73)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces baby bok choy, cut 
into 1-inch strips
8 ounces choy sum, cut into 
1-inch-wide pieces
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(enoki, wood ear, etc.)
1/2 small kabocha squash 
(about 8 to 12 ounces), cut 
into 1-inch cubes6 ounces pressed tofu, cut into 
bite-size pieces
4 ounces fresh bean curd skin
8 ounces shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
8 Chinese pork meatballs
1. Prepare the broth, chile-lime sauce, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, bok choy, choy sum, 
mushrooms, squash, tofu, bean curd skin, and reserved poached chicken on 
plates and setting them on the table. Keep the dumplings, shrimp, and meatballs 
refrigerated until right before the meal.
3. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
4. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the chile-lime sauce, and set 
the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.117 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. When the broth comes to a boil, set out the refrigerated ingredients.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can substitute ground chicken for the ground pork in the Pork and 
Shrimp Dumplings recipe.
PAIRING TIP: The hoppy and citrus notes from an India pale ale, along with a strong 
bitterness, provide a nice contrast to the sweetness of the coconut-infused broth and 
 complement the chile-lime sauce.118 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookDRUNKEN CHICKEN HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
Zhejiang province is relatively small, covering a landmass just a bit larger than my home state 
of Maine, but its population is over 54 million. At various times, it was home to the nation’s 
capital. Its cuisine is therefore descended from the royal court and emphasizes health and 
long life, often incorporating traditional Chinese medicinal herbs like those in the Zhejiang 
Drunken Chicken Broth.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Zhejiang Drunken 
Chicken Broth (page 55)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Shrimp Paste Balls (page 79)
8 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)16 ounces fresh 
wonton noodles
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces Chinese broccoli, cut 
into 1-inch strips
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(maitake, button, etc.)1 medium sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick discs
1 medium peeled lotus root, cut 
into 1/2-inch-thick discs
8 ounces skinless boneless 
chicken thighs, thinly sliced
8 ounces sea bass fillets, 
sliced on the bias into 
1/4-inch-thick pieces
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, shrimp paste balls, and dumplings accord-
ing to instructions.
2. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, tofu, cabbage, Chinese 
broccoli, mushrooms, sweet potato, lotus root, and drunken chicken from the broth 
on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the shrimp paste balls, dumplings 
chicken thighs, and sea bass refrigerated until right before the meal.
3. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
4. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.119 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. When the broth comes to a boil, set out the refrigerated ingredients.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can substitute ground chicken for the ground pork in the Pork and 
Shrimp Dumplings recipe.
PAIRING TIP: An American pale wheat beer has a light crisp flavor and low alcohol content 
that will fit nicely with this “drunken” broth and not overpower the chicken and seafood.120 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookIMMORTALITY HOT POT
Prep Time:  35 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  1 HOUR 30 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
The Empress Dowager Cixi of the Qing Dynasty made the chrysanthemum hot pot famous by 
incorporating it into her regimen to maintain long life and beauty. It was under her rule that 
my great-great-grandfather Wei Han went to Europe to learn Western technologies. He is 
credited as the father of the modern Chinese navy, having founded the Mawei Shipyard that 
built China’s first iron ships in 1887. I don’t know if he enjoyed this hot pot, but he has achieved 
practical immortality, as his likeness is now cast in bronze in a museum in Fuzhou.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Chrysanthemum 
Blossom Broth (page 54) and 
reserved poached chicken
1 batch Ginger-Scallion Oil 
(page 70)
12 Pork and Shrimp Dumplings 
(page 76)16 ounces fresh tofu noodles
8 chicken or quail eggs
8 ounces firm or extra-firm 
tofu, cut into 1-inch cubes
8 ounces baby bok choy, cut 
into 1-inch strips
8 ounces Chinese cabbage, 
cut into 1-inch strips
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(oyster, king trumpet, etc.)1 small butternut squash, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1 medium peeled taro root, cut 
into 1/2-inch discs
4 ounces rice stick
8 ounces pork belly, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
1. Prepare the broth, ginger-scallion oil, and dumplings according to instructions.
2. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, eggs, tofu, bok choy, 
cabbage, mushrooms, squash, taro root, rice stick, and reserved poached chicken 
on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the dumplings, pork belly, and 
shrimp refrigerated until right before the meal.
3. Set up the hot pot at the table and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over 
high heat.
4. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the ginger-scallion oil, and set 
the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.121 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots5. When the broth comes to a boil, set out the refrigerated ingredients.
6. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
SUBSTITUTION TIP: You can substitute ground chicken for the ground pork in the Pork and 
Shrimp Dumplings recipe.
PAIRING TIP: An American lager has a light flavor and low alcohol content that will meld 
well with the floral yet light broth.122 Essential Chinese Hot Pot CookbookSHEEP SCORPION HOT POT
Prep Time:  45 MINUTES  Make-Ahead Time:  3 HOURS 30 MINUTES  Makes   4 SERVINGS  
This style of hot pot is heavily laden with mutton and comes from Inner Mongolia. Legends 
trace its origins to the Naiman tribes whose members are now found from Inner Mongolia to 
central Asia.
MAKE IN ADVANCE
1 batch Sheep Scorpion Broth 
(page 60)
1 batch Cilantro-Sesame Oil 
(page 69)
12 Shrimp Paste Balls (page 79)
12 Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings 
(page 78)4 ounces dried tofu knots
16 ounces fresh lo 
mein noodles
8 ounces dwarf bok choy, 
halved lengthwise
8 ounces tatsoi, cut into 
1-inch pieces
8 ounces fresh mushrooms 
(wood ear, shiitake, etc.)2 ears corn, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1 large Yukon Gold potato
8 ounces lamb shoulder, 
thinly sliced
8 ounces lamb leg, thinly sliced
8 ounces pork belly, 
thinly sliced
1. Prepare the broth, cilantro-sesame oil, shrimp paste balls, and dumplings 
 according to instructions.
2. In a medium bowl, soak the tofu knots in water for 20 minutes.
3. Assemble the hot pot ingredients by placing the noodles, bok choy, tatsoi, mush-
rooms, corn, and potato on plates and setting them on the table. Keep the 
shrimp paste balls, dumplings, lamb shoulder, lamb leg, and pork refrigerated 
until right before the meal.
4. Set up the hot pot and bring the pre-cooked broth to a boil over high heat.
5. Lay out the ingredients for the sauce bar, including the cilantro-sesame oil, and 
set the table with chopsticks, strainers, and other utensils.
6. When the broth comes to a boil, drain the tofu knots and transfer to a bowl 
to serve.123 Meat and Seafood Hot Pots7. Using chopsticks, a hot pot strainer, or tongs, lower your chosen ingredients into 
the hot broth. Once cooked through, remove from the broth and eat with your 
dipping sauces.
PAIRING TIP: Xinjiang Wusu Black Beer or a malty medium- to full-bodied beer like an 
amber or brown ale will complement the strong flavors of this broth and the lamb.WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
U.S. STANDARD METRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
 ½ ounce  15 g
 1 ounce  30 g
 2 ounces  60 g
 4 ounces  115 g
 8 ounces  225 g
 12 ounces  340 g
 16 ounces or  
 1 pound 455 gOVEN TEMPERATURES
FAHRENHEIT CELSIUS  
(APPROXIMATE)
 250°F  120°C
 300°F  150°C
 325°F  165°C
 350°F  180°C
 375°F  190°C
 400°F  200°C
 425°F  220°C
 450°F  230°C126VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTSU.S. STANDARD U.S. STANDARD  
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
LIQUID  2 tablespoons  1 fl. oz.  30 mL
 ¼ cup  2 fl. oz.  60 mL
 ½ cup  4 fl. oz.  120 mL
 1 cup  8 fl. oz.  240 mL
 1½ cups  12 fl. oz.  355 mL
 2 cups or 1 pint  16 fl. oz.  475 mL
 4 cups or 1 quart  32 fl. oz.  1 L
 1 gallon  128 fl. oz.  4 L
DRY  ¹/8 teaspoon  0.5 mL
 ¼ teaspoon  1 mL
 ½ teaspoon  2 mL
 ¾ teaspoon  4 mL
 1 teaspoon  5 mL
 1 tablespoon  15 mL
 ¼ cup  59 mL
 ¹/³ cup  79 mL
 ½ cup  118 mL
 ²/³ cup  156 mL
 ¾ cup  177 mL
 1 cup  235 mL
 2 cups or 1 pint  475 mL
 3 cups  700 mL
 4 cups or 1 quart  1 L
 ½ gallon  2 L
 1 gallon  4 LMeasurement Conversions127Resources
“Food for Thought” Hot Pot episode from the Culinary China docuseries.   
(YouTu.be/cC19WuzK_fs). A 10-minute documentary about Sichuan hot pot including 
an interview with the woman who claims to have invented the split-pot hot pot.
HotPotAmbassador.com. A blog with lots of articles about hot pot, from history to 
 helpful how-to articles.
KneadandNosh.com. My online home, where you’ll find videos and other resources from 
me about hot pot and more!
TheMalaMarket.com. This site is a great source for Chinese chiles, Sichuan peppercorns, 
and other hot pot essentials.
“The ULTIMATE Chinese Food Tour: Pixian Broad Bean Paste in Chengdu”  
(YouTu.be/Y9pjr8--v8I). A five-minute video feature about Sichuan broad bean chili 
paste Píxiàn dòubàn jiàng.
The Woks of Life (TheWoksOfLife.com/chinese-hot-pot-at-home) is a great blog for 
Chinese recipes. This article includes helpful links to ingredient descriptions and photos. 
There’s also a helpful guide, “How to Cut a Whole Chicken Chinese-style.”128References
Barron, James. “New York City’s Population Hits a Record 8.6 Million.”  New York Times. 
March 22, 2018. NYTimes.com/2018/03/22/nyregion/new-york-city-population.html.
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. “FAOSTAT: Crops 2019 Data 
Set.”  Accessed May 26, 2021. FAO.org/faostat/en/#search/Crops%202019%20
Data%20Set.
Huang, Guanghong. “Chongqing Hotpot Festival! Thousands of People Share a 
Tasty Feast Together.”  Chongqing Daily. October 26, 2019. CQRB.cn/html/cqrb  
/2019-10/26/003/content_245240.htm.
People’s Daily. “Hotpot, Barbecue Can Be Traced Back to China’s Han Dynasty.” 
Accessed May 10, 2021. en.People.cn/n3/2016/0525/c98649-9063044.html.
Statista. “Cities with the Largest Number of Starbucks in the United States as of  
April 2019.”  Accessed May 12, 2021. Statista.com/statistics/306896/cities-with  
-the-largest-number-of-starbucks-stores-us.
World Population Review. “Chongqing Population 2021.”  Accessed May 12, 2021.  
WorldPopulationReview.com/ world-cities/ chongqing-population.
Zhang, Tingwei. “Chinese Hotpot: A Communal Food Culture.”  December 23, 2019.  
StoryMaps.arcgis.com/stories/9c3a733c1411400e9f80310fa8b65a9e.129Index
A
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
All-in-one hot pots, 8–9
B
Bean Broth, Guizhou Pickled 
Greens and, 44–45
Bean curd, 22–23
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Beef, 31
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99Beef tongue, 31
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Beer
Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth, 58–59
Bok choy, 25
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Wild Mushroom Hot Pot, 84–85
Broths
about, 19–20
Buddhist Clear Broth, 63
Cantonese Congee Broth, 51
Cantonese Pork Bone Broth, 52
Chrysanthemum 
Blossom Broth, 54
Fujian Seafood Broth, 56–57Guizhou Pickled Greens and 
Bean Broth, 44–45
Guizhou Sour Fish Broth, 42–43
Hainan Chicken-
Coconut Broth, 53
Heilongjiang Clear Broth, 50
Hunan Cured Meat Broth, 48
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth, 39
Mandarin Lamb Broth, 49
Sheep Scorpion Broth, 60–61
Sichuan Green Ma La Broth, 40
Sichuan Red Ma La Broth, 38
Sichuan Spicy Tomato Broth, 41
Tomato Broth, 62
Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth, 58–59
Yunnan Mushroom 
Broth, 46–47
Zhejiang Drunken 
Chicken Broth, 55
Buddhist Clear Broth, 63
Burners, countertop, 7–8
C
Cabbage, 25
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115130 IndexCabbage (continued)
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Tomato Broth Hot  
Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Cantonese Congee Broth, 51
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Cantonese Pork Bone Broth, 52
Chicken
Chrysanthemum 
Blossom Broth, 54
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Hainan Chicken-
Coconut Broth, 53
Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth, 58–59
Zhejiang Drunken 
Chicken Broth, 55
Chile-Lime Sauce, 73
Chili Oil, Sichuan, 71
Chinese broccoli, 25
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109Chinese hot pot
about, 2–4
entertaining with, 14, 34
frequently asked 
questions, 12–13
popular broths, 5
setting up and using, 11
setups, 7–9
tips, 83, 97
Choy sum, 26
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Wild Mushroom Hot  
Pot, 84–85
Chrysanthemum Blossom 
Broth, 54
Cilantro-Sesame Oil, 69
Clams
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Coconut Broth, Hainan 
Chicken-, 53
Congee Broth, Cantonese, 51
Corn, 28
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Countertop burners, 7–8
Crab, 33
D
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Daikon radishes, 27
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Drunken Chicken Hot Pot, 118–119
Duck eggs, 32
Dumplings, 29
Mushroom Dumplings, 74–75
Pork and Shrimp 
Dumplings, 76–77
Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings, 78
E
Eggs, 32
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Equipment, 9–10
Etiquette, 13
F
Fish and seafood, 32–33
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
fish balls, 29
Fujian Seafood Broth, 56–57
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Guizhou Sour Fish Broth, 42–43131 IndexHainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Pork and Shrimp 
Dumplings, 76–77
shrimp balls, 29
Shrimp Paste Balls, 79
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Fish balls, 29
Fondue, vs. hot pot, 3
Fujian Seafood Broth, 56–57
G
Ginger-Scallion Oil, 70
Greens and Bean Broth, 
Guizhou Pickled, 44–45
Grocery shopping, 18
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Guizhou Pickled Greens and 
Bean Broth, 44–45
Guizhou Sour Fish Broth, 42–43
H
Hainan Chicken-Coconut 
Broth, 53
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Heilongjiang Clear Broth, 50
Hot pot pans, 8
Hunan Cured Meat Broth, 48
I
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Intestine, 32K
Kidneys, 32
L
Lamb, 31
Mandarin Lamb Broth, 49
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings, 78
Leftovers, 34
Lime Sauce, Chile-, 73
Liver, 32
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Lobster, 33
Fujian Seafood  
Broth, 56–57
Lotus root, 27
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Wild Mushroom Hot  
Pot, 84–85M
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth, 39
Mandarin Lamb Broth, 49
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Meatballs, 29
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Meats. See also specific
Hunan Cured Meat Broth, 48
slicing, 30–31
Mushrooms, 26–27
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Mushroom Dumplings, 74–75
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87132 IndexMushrooms (continued)
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Wild Mushroom Hot Pot, 84–85
Yunnan Mushroom 
Broth, 46–47
N
Noodles, 23–24
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Handmade Lo Mein 
Noodles, 80–81
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Wild Mushroom Hot  
Pot, 84–85
O
Oils
Cilantro-Sesame Oil, 69
Ginger-Scallion Oil, 70
Sichuan Chili Oil, 71
P
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Pork, 32
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Cantonese Pork Bone  
Broth, 52
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Pork and Shrimp 
Dumplings, 76–77
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109Potatoes, 28
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Poultry, 32. See also specific
Pumpkin, 28
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Q
Quail eggs, 32
R
Recipes, about, 35
S
Sauces
bar setups, 66–67
Chile-Lime Sauce, 73
ingredients, 21
Jeff’s Hot and Sour 
Dipping Sauce, 72
Sesame Sauce, 68
Scallion Oil, Ginger-, 70
Sesame
Cilantro-Sesame Oil, 69
Sesame Sauce, 68
Sheep Scorpion Broth, 60–61
Sheep Scorpion Hot Pot, 122–123
Shellfish, 33. See also  
Fish and seafood133 IndexShrimp, 33
The Admirals’ Banquet 
Hot Pot, 110–111
Fujian Seafood Broth, 56–57
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Pork and Shrimp 
Dumplings, 76–77
shrimp balls, 29
Shrimp Paste Balls, 79
Sichuan Chili Oil, 71
Sichuan Green Ma La Broth, 40
Sichuan Red Ma La Broth, 38
Sichuan Spicy Tomato Broth, 41
Spam
Ruby’s Holiday Hot 
Pot, 106–107
Spinach, 26
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Squash, 28
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Hainan Island Hot Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Wild Mushroom Hot  
Pot, 84–85
Squid, 33
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Sweet potatoes, 28
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Fisherman’s 
Hot Pot, 114–115
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
T
Taro root, 28
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Tatsoi, 26
DaBanJi Hot Pot, 100–101
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Ruby’s Holiday Hot Pot, 106–107
Sheep Scorpion Hot Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95Tofu, 22–23
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Drunken Chicken Hot 
Pot, 118–119
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Hainan Island Hot  
Pot, 116–117
Immortality Hot Pot, 120–121
Mazu’s Ocean Feast 
Hot Pot, 112–113
Northern Beef and Lamb 
Hot Pot, 102–103
Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Ruby’s Holiday Hot Pot, 106–107
Sheep Scorpion Hot 
Pot, 122–123
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Weeknight Hot Pot, 108–109
Wild Mushroom Hot Pot, 84–85
Tomatoes
Sichuan Spicy Tomato  
Broth, 41
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth, 62
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Tripe, 32
Cantonese Hot Pot, 104–105
Northern Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 98–99134 IndexV
Vegan
Buddhist Clear Broth, 63
Cantonese Congee Broth, 51
Chile-Lime Sauce, 73
Ginger-Scallion Oil, 70
Guizhou Dragon Tooth 
Hot Pot, 90–91
Guizhou Pickled Greens and 
Bean Broth, 44–45
Handmade Lo Mein 
Noodles, 80–81
Jeff’s Hot and Sour 
Dipping Sauce, 72
Mandarin Duck Clear Broth, 39
Mushroom Dumplings, 74–75Path to Enlightenment 
Hot Pot, 86–87
Sesame Sauce, 68
Sichuan Chili Oil, 71
Sichuan Green Ma La Broth, 40
Sichuan Spicy Tomato Broth, 41
Spicy Tomato Yuān Yāng 
Hot Pot, 94–95
Tomato Broth, 62
Tomato Broth Hot Pot, 92–93
Vegan Mandarin Duck 
Hot Pot, 88–89
Wild Mushroom Hot Pot, 84–85
Yunnan Mushroom 
Broth, 46–47Vegetables, 25–28.  
See also specific
Vinegars, 21
X
Xinjiang DaBanJi Broth, 58–59
Xinjiang Lamb Dumplings, 78
Y
Yunnan Mushroom  
Broth, 46–47
Z
Zhejiang Drunken Chicken 
Broth, 55ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Thanks to my family, especially my wife, Deanna, and my sons, Peter and 
Nathan, for putting up with my recipe testing for years and years. My sister, 
Jennifer, and father were instrumental in aiding me with translating Chinese 
websites and texts and leveraging their many years living in China to ensure 
that I hadn’t strayed too far from authentic hot pot.
A special thanks to Chris T oy. I met Chris almost 30 years ago as a young 
educator when he was a veteran school principal. A fellow Bowdoin College 
graduate, he guided me then, and he continues to do so now. He is the author 
of five Chinese cookbooks, and he encouraged me to create this book!
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Jeff Mao (毛念宗) has been preparing Chinese food with his family 
since he was a child. His earliest cooking memories date back 
to the early 1970s, cutting and rolling Mandarin pancakes and 
filling and folding dumplings. He grew up outside San Francisco, 
and his childhood home had a black burnt circle on the kitchen 
peninsula where the family ate most of their meals—a scar from 
when his father accidentally placed the charcoal in the wrong place in their hot 
pot, cooking the counter more than heating the broth. A graduate of T amalpais 
High School in Mill Valley, California, Mao moved to Maine to attend Bowdoin 
College, where he studied Russian history, played clarinet in the college’s con-
cert band, and ran on the track and field team. He has been an educator his 
entire professional career, but cooking has always remained a passion. Now 
an education technology consultant, Mao also teaches cooking classes online. 
You can find him at KneadAndNosh.com and EdMoxie.com.