DUNGEON MASTER'S PREFACE  11DUNGEON MASTER’S PREFACE: USING THIS BOOK
How to turn your baking trials into critical hits.
I’ve been waiting for you, adventurer. 
Here in this darkened corner of this forsaken tavern, where I’ve been spending my days 
telling stories to anyone who’ll listen of baking adventures past. But the further away those 
days of baking wizardry get, the more hazy the accounts become. I mean, I barely even tweet 
anymore.
But I awoke with a start one night not too long ago, and I just knew  this book had made it to 
your hands. I sensed you were coming; your eager mind and limitless baking potential was like 
a pulse of brilliant light from that haze of darkness. 
And how did you come across this tome, adventurer? Perhaps you discovered it in the 
forbidden section of a Mage tower library, or journeyed up a mountain to be handed a copy 
by a withered shaman, eager to pass on his mystic baking arts. Or maybe you bought it off 
Amazon. However it ended up in your hands, its power is now yours to wield. 
Before you venture far from the comfort of your starter area, we should discuss the items 
below for an overall understanding of how this book works and the journey that now lies 
before you.
Levelling Up
This book is divided into 3 parts, each increasing in difficulty. Always read the recipe all the 
way through before starting! Get familiar with the steps before you take them, and it will 
improve your baking experience. 
If you are new to baking, I recommend starting at Level 1 and working your way up. If your baking 
skills are already maxed out, then feel free to jump in and start slaying dragons all willy-nilly.
Level 1 - Squire: Starter quests to begin your baking adventure.
Level 2 - Knight: Grinding your skills in the kitchen for maximum XP .
Level 3 - Dragon Slayer: Epic recipes and skill checks for the most heroic of bakers.
The final section of the book is titled Festival Reveler, and it will be your chance to do a victory 
lap. Celebrate the seasons with a glass of mead and these legendary seasonal recipes.
Side Quests
Every adventurer needs a little break now and then. Between each level, there are recipes to 
help you plan a sweet shindig for your adventuring party (and some new NPCs you may meet 
along the way). A printable party invite, recipe, and cocktail are included for each theme party 
to get the festivities started.  DUNGEON MASTER'S PREFACE  12Essential Baking Spells
Pages 42 to 75 contain the essential baking spells required to make most of the recipes in this 
book. Learn them well, adventurer, and they will serve you in kind.
 
Templates
Included in many of the recipes are names of templates available for download from my 
website, books.geeksweets.net – they are used for cutting out specific shapes, usually for 
fondant or cookies, as well as for royal icing transfers. See page 206 for how to use templates 
with fondant, page 35 for how to use templates with cookies, and page 128 for how to use 
templates to make a royal icing transfer. If you don’t have a printer, use this quick tip: trace 
template shapes by holding a square of waxed paper up to your computer screen, tracing the 
shapes, then cutting them out as required.
Download and print templates Fondant template in use
Cookie template in use Royal Icing template in useDUNGEON MASTER'S PREFACE 13Critical Misses
Keep in mind this eternal truth: there is no winning or losing when it comes to baking. Each 
creation is a step on your journey toward true baking wizardry. If something doesn’t come out 
the way you imagined or looking just like the photo, it’s all the same to your taste buds, bud. 
Pick yourself up, dust the cake crumbs off, and try again.
Rolling Natural 20’s
Just pulled off a feat of baking prowess the likes of which this realm has never seen? I’d love to 
see it! Share it with everyone on social media with the hashtag #geeksweets and I’ll share it too:
Twitter: @geeksweettweets, Instagram: @geeksweets, Snapchat: @geeksweetsnaps 
Facebook: @geeksweets
We’ve been talking all night, and the sun is starting to crest on a new day. Time to go, 
adventurer, our quest begins. These old bones can still conjure a mystical sweet or two.  
Let’s settle up with the barmaid and leave this small town behind for the  
buttercream-frosted glory that awaits.
ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    15ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY
Leveling up your baking game with an arsenal of goodies.
Clear up some slots in your Bag of Holding – baking magics require the right tools for every 
spell. You will find details in alphabetical order below on many of the items you’ll need to 
recreate the recipes in this book, as well as swap-in suggestions for some harder to find items.
Not sure where to find something? Check the resources section of this book, on page 259, for 
places to purchase the inventory items not yet in your armory.
Chocolate Handling Gloves
Yep – these are a thing. They’re thin, cotton gloves 
that keep fingerprints off your chocolate creations 
when picking them up. They can be purchased online 
or from bakery supply stores, and they are great for 
handling chocolate coming out of silicone molds or 
for adding chocolate toppers to cupcakes without 
leaving any trace of yer grubby paws.
Cookie Lifter
These small, flat spatulas are great for – you guessed 
it – lifting cookies on and off a cookie sheet. Always 
wait until your cookies have cooled two or three 
minutes before sliding this puppy underneath them 
and moving them to a cooling rack, otherwise they will 
be too soft and prone to breaking. If you don’t have a 
lifter, wait until cookies are completely cooled before 
lifting them off the cookie sheet with a gentle twist.
ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    16
Couplers
These are used to hold small piping tips in place in a 
piping bag. (More on tips later!) The two brands I use 
most frequently are Wilton and Ateco. But be careful 
– the Ateco couplers and tips do not “play nice” with 
the Wilton couplers and tips, so be sure to use tips 
with the matching brand of coupler. See page 27 for 
details on how to put together a piping bag with a tip 
and coupler.
Cupcake Baking Pans
These are usually called “Muffin Tins”, but let’s not 
fool ourselves - we know what we’re using them 
for. Use a standard size, and make sure they’re not 
marked “Jumbo”. Mini sized tins can be used for 
making miniature versions of all the recipes in this 
book, but baking times will be shorter – keep an 
eye out for golden tops and check the centers for 
doneness with a toothpick. Also keep in mind, dark 
colored pans cook their contents faster, and lighter 
pans cook them slower.
Cupcake Corer
This fun little gizmo will make light work of  
popping the middle out of a cupcake in order to add 
filling. While it sure is nifty, a thin paring knife will also 
do the job. Cut a hole two-thirds of the way down 
into the cupcake and tilt knife upwards to remove the 
‘cake plug.’ Be careful not to cut the hole too wide 
– try and cut it the way you would cut the top off a 
Halloween pumpkin, keeping uncut cake on all sidesADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    17
Cupcake Liners
These are available in a variety of colors, from simple 
white to a jazzy rainbow leopard print number. Any 
color can be used with any cupcakes; however, color 
and style recommendations are made with most of all 
the cupcake recipes in this book.
Disher / Ice Cream Scoop
While both can be used to dole out an equal amount 
of cake batter into a cupcake pan, color-coded scoops 
called “dishers” are used for portion control in food 
preparation and restaurants and can take less trial-
and-error than finding the perfect ice cream scoop. 
My go-tos are a #20 yellow disher for portioning my 
cupcake batter, and a #40 purple for portioning cake 
pops. I also use the #20 disher to help determine how 
much frosting to dye / flavor for a particular number of 
cupcakes, at one scoop per cupcake. 
Edible Ink Pens
Like food dye, but in a handy felt-tip pen applicator. 
A few companies make them, but by a wide margin, 
Americolor pens are the best quality and last the 
longest, and they work on a wide variety of surfaces. 
Edible ink pens are great for details on cake pops 
and fondant, or anywhere you need a quick, small 
application of color. While they come in all colors, I 
find I use the black 90% of the time, so keep that one 
in good supply. The black can be purchased in a pack 
of two on their own online, or in a pack with all the 
other colors.ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    18
Flavoring Oils
When lemon zest alone just won’t cut it, these oils 
extend your flavor possibilities. Need your cupcakes to 
taste like cotton candy? No problem! There’s a flavoring 
oil for that. Add slowly and to taste, keeping in mind 
that the baking process will remove some of the flavor. 
That being said, try not to go overboard! I use an 
eyedropper to add the flavoring from these small vials, 
ensuring that I don’t just upend the bottle accidentally 
and put someone into a Cotton Candy Coma™.
Fondant
Fondant is like the modelling clay of the baking world. 
It is made out of sugar and water, with gelatin and 
glycerol to make it stretchy and malleable. You can dye 
it, flavor it, shape it, spread it out thin to cover frosted 
cakes, and dry it to cut shapes out of it with an X-acto 
or sharp paring knife. My brand of choice is Wilton, as it 
dries at a decent speed for cupcake toppers when thin, 
stays moist enough for shaping when thick, and is dry 
enough that it doesn’t stick to your fingers like crazy.
Fondant Glue
This simple “glue” is made at home, and is used to 
stick things to fondant, or to stick fondant to itself. 
Take a one-inch ball of fondant, and put it in a small, 
shallow microwavable dish with a teaspoon of water. 
Microwave on high for about 20 seconds, or longer if 
required. Stir mixture to create glue texture, adding 
more drops of water if needed. If glue starts to thicken 
back up while in use, add a few more drops of water 
and microwave again until it is the desired consistency.ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    19
Gel Food Coloring vs Liquid Food Coloring
There is a big difference between these two types of 
food coloring. While the liquid coloring you can buy 
in a grocery store is good for coloring other liquids, 
they will not do the trick for buttercream or batter as 
the dye is not concentrated enough. Gel dyes can 
be purchased online or at specialty baking / crafting 
stores like Michaels or Bulk Barn. In contrast to liquid 
dyes, only a tiny amount should be used, and it can 
be doled out using a toothpick. Be careful not to 
“double-dip” as that can transfer bacteria to the tub 
of dye. They last almost forever, but always keep a lid 
on them, as they will dry out to a rubbery consistency 
if left open to the air. 
Luster/Disco Dust
Luster dust is an edible dust that adds a shimmer to 
your baked goods, while disco dust is a coarser edible 
glitter that can be used in the same way. They can be 
watered down into a paintable paste with a few drops 
of vodka, or dusted dry on a surface with a large, soft 
paintbrush. Luster dust can also come in a spray can, 
which is useful for spraying a metallic sheen onto 
something wet, like the top of a frosted cupcake. A 
24k gold dust can even be purchased and used in very 
small amounts for an extremely  metallic effect.
Paint Brushes
Two paintbrushes should be purchased and used for 
only food-related purposes: A small detail brush to 
paint on watered-down dusts and dyes (among other 
fancy things), and a large fluffy brush to pick up and 
dust on edible glitter or brush luster dust over large 
areas. Always wash and dry well after each use.ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    20
Piping Bags
 I recommend investing in a good quality plastic-lined 
cloth or silicone piping bag that will hold your large 
cupcake frosting tips. These bags can be rinsed out 
with soapy water and easily reused over and over. They 
have to be kept clean and dried out well after each use 
to avoid retaining any smells or discoloration.
 I also recommend having a stock of disposable plastic 
bags for small quantities of royal icing or for recipes 
where you will need multiple colors at once and  
may not have many reusable piping bags. These are 
also handy for melting candy melts in the microwave. 
These disposable bags can also be rinsed out and 
reused to prolong their lives, but they won’t last forever. 
Piping Tips
While there are a vast array of different piping tips out 
there, here are a few specifics that top my list – you’ll 
see them used throughout this book:  
For decorating cupcakes:  Ateco 845 (large star tip) 
and Ateco 809 and 806 (large round tip) will cover 
almost every type of frosting technique in this book.
For decorating cookies:  Ateco or Wilton in a size 1 for 
the tiniest details, size 5 for covering large areas, and 
size 3 for just about everything else. I have about 15 
of these tips for cookie decorating that requires a lot 
of colors.  
Ateco and Wilton brand tips are the most popular 
and can be purchased online or in baking supply 
stores like Michaels or Bulk Barn. ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    21
Rolling Pins and Rings
While rolling pins come in many varieties, my favorite 
is the Wilton 20” Fondant Roller. It’s huge, it’s smooth, 
it’s easy to clean and it packs a mean wallop should an 
army of orcs invade while you’re prepping your cookie 
dough. I also like the smaller 9” roller when rolling out 
small amounts of fondant - though a round, clean pen 
or pencil will also do the trick!
Spatula
Several good spatulas will serve you well for many 
baking tasks. From scraping the bottom of a mixer 
bowl to incorporating all the dry ingredients to 
scooping buttercream into a piping bag, you’ll always 
have a use for a good spatula. I recommend the 
silicone variety as they are flexible and easy to clean.
Sprinkles
While sprinkles come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes, the ones you’ll use most in this 
book are as follows:
Jimmies  – Long thin sprinkles in a rainbow of colors (Figure 1),
Confetti  – Round flat circles, usually sold in a mixed color variety (Figure 2).
Nonpareils or Dragées  – Teeny, tiny balls in varied sizes, usually in rainbow colors or coated in 
metallic gold or silver (Figure 3).
Sanding Sugar  – Coarse grain sugar, great for adding a bit of sparkle and crunch. (Figure 4).ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    22(Figure 1)
 (Figure 2)
(Figure 3)
 (Figure 4)
Stand / Hand Mixer
I have (and worship!) a shiny silver KitchenAid mixer; I 
call it “The Silver Surfer.” While I recommend a stand 
mixer for anyone getting into baking in a serious 
way, all recipes in this book can also be made with 
a handheld mixer. In fact, some recipes, like the 
7-Minute Floofy Frosting on page 66, will specifically 
require a hand mixer. I would recommend against 
hand mixing the recipes in this book with a spoon, 
no matter how buff your biceps are, particularly the 
Buttercream frostings, which require a large amount of 
air to be incorporated.ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    23
Vanilla Bean Paste vs Liquid Vanilla Extract
While there’s no doubt that liquid vanilla from the 
baking aisle of your local grocery will do the trick, 
there’s nothing quite like the professional presentation 
provided by vanilla bean paste. While both vanillas 
will taste very similar in your recipe, the tiny black 
flecks reminiscent of a scraped vanilla bean pod that 
appear in your cake or frosting are a visual reminder 
of the vanilla flavor dancing on people’s taste buds. 
You’d be surprised how much of a boost the extra 
sensory cue adds to the cake ‘nomming’ experience!
Whisk
Often, recipes will have you sift your flour with a sifter. 
This is to separate any clumps and make it easier to 
combine it with other dry ingredients, as well as with 
the wet ingredients. The same effect can be achieved 
with a metal whisk and some vigorous stirring, and 
using a whisk will save you having to keep a sifter 
around the kitchen. It can kick up a mean flour dust 
cloud, however, so maybe do your whisking near 
the sink.
Wooden Toothpicks
Between using toothpicks as cake testers and 
scooping up bits of gel dye with them, I go through 
a crazy amount of toothpicks. To check that your 
cupcake or cake is baked through, stick a toothpick 
into the very middle, right down to the bottom. If the 
toothpick comes out clean, then your batter is baked 
through. If not, it needs to go back in the oven for 
a few more minutes. Don’t be deceived! Make sure 
it’s batter you’re seeing on the toothpick and not a 
sneaky melted chocolate chip.ADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    24
X-acto Knife
I like keeping some of these sharp blades on hand to 
cut around templates in both fondant and dough. Be 
sure to use them on a cutting board, and don’t chop 
up your kitchen counter. A thin, sharp paring knife can 
also be used instead. Either way, be careful around 
the pointy end, adventurer. #sharpthingsaresharpADVENTURER’S INVENTORY    25SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   27SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS
Masterful baking comes from sweet foundations. And practice, practice, practice.
As a budding baking adventurer, you’ll want to become proficient in a variety of skills that will 
aid you on your journey. Your charisma stat may be through the roof, but if your dexterity is 
lacking, you’ll end up with more frosting on your tabard then on your cake. Today your training 
in the foundational skills required for the recipes outlined in this book begins. The trials ahead 
may be dark and full of terrors, but you’ll be ready – let’s get started.
(Figure 1)
How to Portion Out Buttercream
When portioning out how much buttercream you’ll 
need to frost your cupcakes, it’s a good idea to use 
an ice cream scoop or disher, with one scoop per 
cupcake (Figure 1). If you only need 5 cupcakes with 
green mint frosting, put 5 scoops of your prepared 
buttercream in a separate bowl, then tint and flavor it 
before putting it in the piping bag. Then if you have 
any leftover buttercream, you can save it for later in 
the fridge, wrapped in a square of plastic wrap. 
 
(Figure 2 )
How to Fill a Piping Bag
Drop a piping tip (or a coupler, if you’re using a  
small tip) into the bag. Using scissors, cut off the tip 
of the bag, removing only as much as it takes for the 
coupler / tip to just stick out of the bag (Figure 2).  If 
you cut it too wide, the opening will stretch under the 
pressure of piping and launch your piping tip across 
the room, along with a gob of buttercream frosting. 
Slide your large tip out until taut, or attach the small 
tip and outer ring of your coupler. 
Hold the piping bag in your left hand around the 
middle, and fold the edge over your hand. Using your 
right hand, fill the bag with frosting using a spatula 
(Figure 3).  You can use the edge of your left hand to 
wipe the frosting off the spatula. Do not overfill! Fill 
the bag just over halfway and no more, or you won’t be able to twist it shut without it oozing 
out of the back of the bag. SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    28
If it feels too difficult to fill the bag one-handed, you can instead fold the 
edge over the rim of a tall cup (Figure 4) .SKILL CHECK:
(Figure 3)
 (Figure 4)
 
Twist the bag closed until all of the air is pushed out of the bag and the frosting comes 
peeking out of the tip. You’re ready to go!
How to Frost a Cupcake
Now that you’ve got your piping bag full of buttercream frosting ready to go, let’s get  
to piping! Different tips have different effects, depending on the type of frosted cupcake 
you’re looking to make, but almost all of them require the same motion – rotating at  
the wrists. 
A common error I see when people are learning to frost a cupcake is that they move their 
upper arms and hands in small circles over the cupcake, like they’re stirring a pot. Instead, 
make sure you are rotating only your wrists , and in circles that, with each rotation, grow 
smaller. Usually it takes about two and a half rotations to get there. When you reach the 
center of the cupcake, release pressure and pull up quickly for a pointed tip. This gives you 
much more control over your movements and keeps you centered over the cupcake. Watch 
someone making ice cream cones from a soft-serve machine – it’s the same movement, just 
upside down!
It may help (or hinder!) to pick up your cupcake in your other hand while you pipe, as  
opposed to keeping it on a flat surface. Give both methods a try and see which you prefer. 
Pictured are some of the different frosting effects that can be achieved and the tips used  
to create them:SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   29
 Classic Rosette:
 
This technique is common for a reason – it’s super easy! 
The ridges fall however they feel like falling and hide 
any imperfections, air bubbles, or required restarts.  
 
Starting at the outside edge of the cupcake and 
rotating at the wrist, make two and a half rotations, 
making each one smaller to create a dome. Release 
pressure and pull up once you reach the center of the 
cupcake. 
 
Tip: Ateco 845 or Wilton 1M
 Flat Rosette:
 
This is your classic “I’m going to jam a bunch of 
stuff on top of this cupcake so it can’t be super tall” 
frosting technique. It also looks very pretty on its own!  
 
Starting at the center of the cupcake and rotating at 
the wrist, make two and a half rotations, making each 
one larger until you reach the edge. Release pressure 
and wipe the last bit of frosting around the outside 
edge so it blends in. 
 
Tip: Ateco 845 or Wilton 1M  
 
 Princess Rosette:
 
This ruffle-icious technique uses a star tip with more 
prongs to create a shape much like a bridesmaids’ 
dress from the 80’s. I won’t lie, adventurer – getting 
the hang of this one takes some practice, so test it 
out on some waxed paper first, then scoop the testers 
back into your frosting bowl once you’ve got it down. 
Make one rotation around the edge of the cupcake, 
then make a bunch of tighter circles, quickly and 
closer to the center, letting the ruffles fall as they may.  
 
Tip: Ateco 849SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    30
 Flat Top:
 
This is like a Classic Rosette, but with less height and a 
large round tip. Great for cupcakes where you will be 
dipping the tops in sprinkles, graham cracker crumbs, 
or melted chocolate. 
 
 Starting at the outside edge of the cupcake and 
rotating at the wrist, make two and a half rotations, 
making each one smaller to create a dome. Press 
down harder and do not lift up as much as you would 
with a classic rosette. Once you almost-but-not-quite  
reach the center of the cupcake, release pressure, and 
instead of pulling up, continue rotating and blend the 
tip of the frosting with the rest so it sits flat.  
 
Tip: Ateco 809  
 Tall Coil:
 
This uses the same technique as the Classic Rosette, 
but with a smaller round tip. It’s not recommended 
you use this style for chocolate frosting, lest the coil 
resemble… well… poop (unless that’s the effect you’re 
going for, like with our Poopcakes on page 120!) It also 
uses a smaller round tip than the Flat Top, as it would 
otherwise be an overwhelming amount of frosting. And 
that’s coming from someone who’s DTF: Down to Frost.  
 
 Starting at the outside edge of the cupcake and 
rotating at the wrist, make two and a half rotations, 
making each one smaller to create a dome. Release 
pressure and pull up once you reach the center of  
the cupcake. 
 
Tip: Ateco 806SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   31
 Grass:
 
This one’s self-explanatory, adventurer – frosting that 
looks like grass. S’right there in the name. This tip also 
makes great shaggy monster fur in a pinch!  
 
Place tip in the middle of the cupcake touching the 
surface, and squeeze bag to form grass. Pull straight 
up while keeping steady pressure on the bag, and 
when strand is long enough (about one-third of an 
inch), release pressure and pull away quickly. Grass  
will be neatly formed only if you stop squeezing 
before you quickly pull the tip away. 
 
Tip: Wilton 233  
 
 Multicolor Frosting:
 
This takes some extra work to put together, but comes out quite impressive. You can keep it as 
simple as a two-color combo, or go up to five for a stunning rainbow effect, like the Rainbow 
Dash cupcake from the Cutie Mark Cupcakes recipe on page 176. 
 
Fill up to five disposable piping bags with each different color of frosting. Do not fill them as 
full as you would a regular piping bag, as they will all need to fit back into one bag at the 
same time (Figure 5).  Cut the tips off each bag, and drop them all together into a piping bag 
fitted with a large star tip (Figure 6).  Twist the back ends all together and squeeze until you see 
all your colors coming out of the tip at once (Figure 7).  
 
Starting at the outside edge of the cupcake and rotating at the wrist, make two and a half 
rotations, making each one smaller to create a dome. Release pressure and pull up once you 
reach the center of the cupcake (Figure 8).  
 
Tip: This works with any tip as long as it’s large, but an Ateco 845 or Wilton 1M has the best 
effect for a ruffled star shape, or use an Ateco 806 for a round coil.  
 SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    32(Figure 5)
 (Figure 6)
(Figure 7)
 (Figure 8)
Frosting Troubleshooting
I can’t even squeeze it out of the bag!
If you find that your frosting is very hard to pipe, it may be too cold. It should be at room 
temperature when frosting, and so should your cupcakes, so they don’t just melt their frosting 
right off.
Nope, it’s room temperature and it’s still not coming out.
If the frosting is too thick, it will be difficult to pipe and may even break when you attempt 
to pipe it in a curve. Pop it back into the mixing bowl, add in some milk (or liquid non-dairy 
creamer or coconut oil for the vegan Butterless Buttercream), and mix until it has a silkier 
texture, fit for piping. Usually the longer you whip your frosting, the easier it will be to pipe.SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   33No sprinkles are sticking to it!
Buttercream may develop a crust on top as it sits, which will make the sprinkles just bounce 
off like arrows off that sweet new armor you just equipped. Make sure to sprinkle early and 
sprinkle often! If you miss your sprinkling window, give your frosted cupcake a quick spritz of 
water from a spray bottle set to the ‘fine mist’ setting, and you’ll be back in business.
How to Dye Fondant
While fondant can be purchased in a variety of colors, I find it’s easier to take white fondant 
and dye it as required.
Only use gel dye to dye fondant, and always wear gloves when you do, as the dye is very hard 
to get off your hands. Protect the table you are working on with a piece of waxed paper, and 
never set dyed fondant down directly on any surface you don’t want dyed. 
Gloves worn should be plastic and not latex, as latex will stick to the fondant and drive you 
bananas. If you can’t find gloves, you can also pop your hands inside two plastic or ziplock 
bags and handle the fondant that way. 
Add dye to fondant using a toothpick, a little bit at a time (Figure 9).  Be careful – you can always 
add more dye, but you can’t remove any once it’s mixed in. Fold the fondant over on itself, 
sandwiching the gel dye inside, and stretch, then fold again (Figure 10).  Repeat until all dye is 
incorporated and color is even.
(Figure 9)
 (Figure 10)
SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    34
For brown fondant, just use chocolate fondant that is already ‘pre-
browned’, and for black fondant, add a small amount of black dye 
to chocolate fondant. While you can dye white fondant black, it will 
take a large amount of gel dye and the taste will suffer from the huge 
amount of dye. SKILL CHECK:
How to Roll Out Cookie Dough Like a Boss
Step up your cookie rolling game with the following rolling technique:  
 
Take freshly mixed dough and place a big blob between two sheets of waxed paper. 
Roll it out to the desired thickness (usually one-third to one-quarter of an inch) (Figure 11).  
Place the “rolled dough and waxed paper sandwich” you’ve just made on an upside down 
cookie sheet and pop it into the refrigerator (Figure 12).  
(Figure 11)
 (Figure 12)
Continue rolling out your dough between sheets of waxed paper and adding it to the pile 
on the back of the cookie sheet until you have used up all the dough. By the time you are 
finished, the first sheet of dough will be completely chilled and ready to cut (Figure 13).  
Cut cookies shapes with a cookie cutter or use a printed Geek Sweets template (Figure 14).  SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   35(Figure 13)
 (Figure 14)
Here’s why rolling out your cookies this way rocks – they’re easier to lift and put on the cookie 
sheet when the dough is chilled through, and you don’t end up incorporating additional flour 
into your dough, which can make your cookies dry and tough. Not to mention your kitchen 
won’t look like you were on the losing end of a messy bout with some vengeful spirits. 
How to Cut Cookie Shapes Using a Geek Sweets Template
Visit books.geeksweets.net to download the specific template mentioned in the recipe. Print 
at 100% and cut out cookie shapes along dotted lines. Place template onto cookie dough 
surface and cut around edge using an X-acto knife or a sharp paring knife (Figure 15).  The 
template will get greasy as you go along, but will hold together. You can store templates  
in a ziplock bag for future use if desired. 
Use the waxed paper under the dough to help you lift intricate shapes onto a cookie sheet. 
(Figure 16).  
Chill and reroll leftover dough, and repeat the process until you’re all out of dough. SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    36(Figure 15)
 (Figure 16)
How to Dam and Flood a Cookie
Almost all cookie decorating starts with this one crucial step, which will ensure that your 
frosting stays where you want it to. Royal icing oozes like lava, slow but unstoppable, but the 
Dam and Flood technique will keep it in its place.
First, make sure your cookies are completely cooled! No piping onto toasty warm cookies. Fit 
a piping bag with a #3 Ateco or Wilton tip, and fill with prepared royal icing. Prepare a second 
bag filled with the same color with a #5 tip. Make sure to cover any remaining icing with a wet 
paper towel or cloth so it doesn’t dry out.
Pick a spot and begin piping an outline of icing onto the cookie with the #3 tip (Figure 17).  Your 
icing should flow in a solid line from the piping tip and not break. If it’s breaking, it is likely too 
thick. This creates a border or “dam” so the ‘fill’ icing does not flow over the edges (Figure 18). 
After allowing the dam to dry for a minute or two, fill the middle of the cookie with the same 
color frosting from the bag fitted with the #5 tip (Figure 19). The reason for the larger tip is so 
it is easier to fill quickly. At this point, I like to pick up the cookie and give it a little wiggle to 
get it to settle nice and flat (Figure 20) .SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   37(Figure 17)
 (Figure 18)
(Figure 19)
 (Figure 20)
Keep a toothpick handy to pop any air bubbles or help push frosting into any intricate corners 
of your cookie shape (Figures 21 and 22).SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS    38(Figure 21)
 (Figure 22)
Allow to dry completely before adding any additional frosting elements. (Or else don’t, if you 
need to press anything into the wet frosting, as you do with the Melted Snowman Cookies on 
page 246.)
When piping cookies, you will get a straighter line if you hold the tip 
about half an inch to an inch away from the surface of the cookie, and let 
the icing string ‘fall’ into place. The closer your tip gets to your cookie, 
the shakier your line will be. Try it on a piece of waxed paper until you 
get the hang of it. (Don’t try to scrape the testers back into the bowl, 
however, as they will be too dry and will cause your frosting to have 
lumps that will get stuck in your tip.)SKILL CHECK:SKILLS TRAINING AND COMBAT TRICKS   39How to Use Luster Dust
Luster dust can be painted onto just about anything to provide a little drama. It’s completely 
edible and completely faaaaabulous . 
To paint onto chocolate or fondant: Luster dust will stick much better to both chocolate or 
fondant with a little condensation. Put the chocolate or fondant pieces in the fridge to chill for 
5-10 minutes, then bring back to room temperature. Condensation will soon start to form, and 
when it does, get dusting with a large, soft brush (Figure 23).  For even quicker condensation 
formation, wave your fondant piece or chocolate very quickly  over the steam from a kettle 
(being very careful not to scald yourself)!
To paint small details: For a little gold button or any other equally tiny detail, mix luster dust 
with a few drops of vodka or other alcohol and paint it on with a tiny details paintbrush (Figure 24).  
Alcohol will evaporate, leaving the concentrated luster dust behind.
(Figure 23)
 (Figure 24)
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS  41ESSENTIAL
“The basic recipes from which legendary delights are conjured.”
Many of the creations in this book refer back to these tried and true basic 
recipes as their starting point. The secret behind Geek Sweets’ wide 
variety of flavors when selling at farmer’s markets was being able to take 
a single vanilla cupcake recipe and create four or five different varieties of 
cupcakes using different flavorings, colorings, fillings, and techniques.
These basic recipes will be your greatest ally on your journey toward 
baking wizardry. Learn them well, adventurer!Quest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    42Preheat oven to 350° F and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners. 
Add all dry ingredients to a large mixing bowl, or to bowl 
of stand mixer, and mix until combined. Add the remaining 
ingredients and beat on low speed until combined, scraping 
the sides and bottom of the bowl with a spatula as needed.  
Using a large ice cream scoop or disher, fill cupcake liners 
two-thirds of the way full. 
Bake 18 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted 
into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully 
remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to  
room temperature. 
Cupcakes can be stored overnight at room temperature, or 
frozen up to two months in airtight containers to decorate at 
a later date.I know what you’re thinking: “A cake mix!? That’s 
cheating! Someone tell the DM!” Settle down, 
adventurer, and keep reading.
Below is a variation on a recipe very popular in internet 
baking circles, called ‘White Almond Sour Cream Cake’ 
(or ‘WASC’ to High Baking Wizards in the know). It bakes 
a cake that is consistent and sturdy, yet moist and light, 
making it ideal for stacked wedding cakes or anytime you 
need a trustworthy, foolproof recipe for a high-concept 
flight of baking fancy. It also takes well to added flavoring 
oils or mix-ins like nuts, citrus zests, and chocolate chips.
This recipe has been a constant companion throughout my 
baking adventures, and I hope it serves you just as well. 
MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESFOOLPROOF VANILLA CUPCAKES
SKILL CHECK:
For some festive flair, mix half a 
cup of rainbow sprinkles (the long, 
tube-like ones called jimmies) into 
the batter before baking. While you 
can use other types of sprinkles to 
make a “confetti cupcake”, they are 
more likely to run – their rainbow-y 
goodness may smear into the batter 
and blend into more of a greyish mess.1 box white cake mix
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup granulated sugar
¾ teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 ¼ cups water
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3 eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
Flavoring oil (as listed by the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Cupcake pan(s)
Cupcake liners  
(color as recommended by the 
individual recipe)ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    44Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
These cupcakes rise up beautifully 
with a big domed top, so be wary 
of over filling your baking cups with 
batter – two-thirds full is what you’re 
aiming for. If you want consistently 
sized cupcakes every time, check 
out the section on Dishers in the 
Adventurer’s Inventory at the 
beginning of this book, (page 15.)Preheat oven to 350° F, and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners. 
In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together cocoa and hot 
water until smooth. Then in a large bowl, mix in flour, baking 
soda, baking powder, and salt until combined.  
Melt butter with sugar in a saucepan over medium-low heat, 
stirring to combine. Be careful not to let sugar burn!  
Remove from heat and pour into a mixing bowl or the bowl 
of a stand mixer, then mix on low until cooled, about 6-7 
minutes. Mixture must be cool enough that it won’t cook the 
eggs you’re about to add.  
Speaking of eggs, add those to the melted butter and sugar 
mixture, one egg at a time, beating until each is incorporated 
and scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add vanilla, 
then add cocoa mixture and beat until combined.  
Add dry ingredients one cup at a time, mixing until combined.  
Divide batter evenly among lined cups, filling each three-
quarters full. Bake 15-20 minutes, or until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature. 
Cupcakes can be stored overnight at room temperature, or 
frozen up to two months in airtight containers to decorate at 
a later date.MAKES  30-32 CUPCAKESThese cupcakes start out on the stove with melting the 
butter and sugar together before incorporating your 
other ingredients – a strange beginning compared to the 
well-worn “creaming of the butter and sugar” path we’re 
used to. But I wouldn’t lead you astray, adventurer. The 
road to rich chocolate cupcakes lies before you – and 
none are more worthy to traverse it.MOIST CHOCOLATE CUPCAKES
¾ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
¾ cup hot water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 ½ cups butter
2 ¼ cups granulated sugar
4 eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla
1 cup sour cream
Flavoring oil  
(as listed by the individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Cupcake pan(s)
Cupcake liners  
(color as recommended by the 
individual recipe)ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    46Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
No cake flour? No problemo! You can 
approximate cake flour by adding two 
tablespoons of cornstarch per cup of 
all-purpose flour. But… why? Well, to 
get a real light and fluffy cake, you 
need light and fluffy flour with less 
protein, unlike with bread, where you 
want increased protein for chewy, 
glutenous goodness. ½ cups granulated sugar
1 ½ cups vegetable oil
2 ½ cups cake flo ur  
(not all-purpose)
2 tablespoons unsweetened  
cocoa powder
1 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons red gel-paste  
food color
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
1 ½ teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons white vinegar
Stand or hand mixer
Cupcake pan(s)  
Cupcake liners  
(color as recommended by the 
individual recipe)Preheat oven to 350° F and line cupcake tin with  
cupcake liners.  
Add cake flour, cocoa, and salt to a large mixing bowl and 
whisk until combined. 
With a stand or hand mixer on medium-high speed, mix 
together sugar and oil until combined. Add eggs one at a 
time, beating until each is incorporated and scraping down 
sides of bowl as needed. Mix in food color and vanilla.  
Reduce speed to low. Add flour mixture in three batches, 
alternating with two additions of buttermilk, and mixing well 
after each. Stir together the baking soda and vinegar in a 
small bowl. (Mixture will foam! Fun!) Add fizzy mixture to 
batter, and mix on medium speed 10-15 seconds.  
Divide batter evenly among lined cups, filling each three-
quarters full. Bake 20 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick 
inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. 
Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come 
to room temperature. 
Cupcakes can be stored overnight at room temperature,  
or frozen up to two months in airtight containers.MAKES  22-24 CUPCAKESRed Velvet. All the most popular elves are talking about it, 
taking instagram “elfies” with slices of it, and wearing lip 
glosses flavored like it. But what is it, really, aside from the 
most popular cupcake in town? 
It’s moist, it’s delicious, it’s… red. And it has a distinct flavor 
all its own. Most red velvet recipes are oil-based, which 
gives them their soft texture; red velvet also has a slight 
tartness from the inclusion of buttermilk (or sometimes 
milk curdled with vinegar). Red velvet recipes also usually 
call for cake flour, which gives them a lighter crumb. But 
their greatest intrigue lies in the cocoa: with not so much 
as to venture into chocolate territory, yet not so little cocoa 
that it goes unnoticed, the flavor of red velvet rides the 
line between chocolate and vanilla, and falls into the literal 
sweet spot between the two. RED VELVET CUPCAKESQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    48For vegan adventurers! Pair with the Butterless 
Buttercream recipe on page 68. 
Preheat oven to 350° F and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners. 
Add all dry ingredients to a large mixing bowl, or to bowl 
of stand mixer, and mix until combined. Add the remaining 
ingredients and beat on low speed until combined, scraping 
the sides and bottom of the bowl with a spatula. 
Using a large scoop or just a spoon, divide batter evenly 
among lined cups, filling each about three-quarters full.  
Bake 18-20 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick  
inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. 
Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come 
to room temperature. 
Cupcakes can be stored overnight at room temperature, or 
frozen up to two months in airtight containers to decorate at 
a later date.1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
1 cup granulated sugar
¼ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon salt
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon white vinegar
1 cup water
Flavoring oil (as listed by the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Cupcake pan(s)
Cupcake liners
 (color as recommended by the 
individual recipe)MAKES  12 CUPCAKESVEGAN CHOCOLATE CUPCAKESQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    50Preheat oven to 350° F and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners. 
Add all dry ingredients to a large mixing bowl, or to bowl of 
stand mixer, and whisk until combined.  
In a separate bowl, add remaining ingredients and mix  
until combined.
Add wet ingredients in with dry and beat on low speed until 
just combined, scraping the sides and bottom of the bowl 
with a spatula. Be careful not to overmix as this can lead to 
denser cupcakes. 
Using a large scoop or just a spoon, divide batter evenly 
among lined cups, filling each about three-quarters full.  
Bake 18-20 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted 
into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully 
remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to room 
temperature. 
Cupcakes can be stored overnight at room temperature, or 
frozen up to two months in airtight containers to decorate at 
a later date.1 ¼ cups all-purpose flour
¾ cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon salt
1/3 cup soy milk (or other 
non-dairy milk)
1/3 cup vegetable oil
2 tablespoons vinegar
2 teaspoons vanilla
Flavoring oil (as listed by the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Cupcake pan(s)
Cupcake liners  
(color as recommended by the 
individual recipe)MAKES  12 CUPCAKESFor vegan adventurers! Pair with the Butterless 
Buttercream recipe on page 68. VEGAN VANILLA CUPCAKESQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    52SKILL CHECK:
Some recipes in this book will have 
you “core” your cupcakes in order 
to add filling. You can save these 
cores in a plastic sandwich bag in 
the freezer to be added to your 
crumbled cake mixture once they’ve 
come to room temperature. Check 
page ** for instructions on how to 
core a cupcake using a cupcake 
corer or a knife.1 box cake mix (any fl avor or as 
directed per recipe)
1 container pre-made frosting (any 
flavor or as directed per recipe )
Flavoring oils (optional or as 
directed per recipe)
1 bag candy melts
9” x 13” cake pan
Waxed paper
Lollipop sticks
Plastic microwavable 
cup or bowl,deep enough 
for dipping
Toothpicks
Piece of styrofoam to hold  
pops as they dry MAKES  40-50 CAKE POPS
Bake cake mix according to directions on box and let cool 
completely. (Don’t skip this cooling step! The cake should 
be at room temperature before heading to the next step.)
Break up half of cake into pieces and place in food 
processor (Figure 1).  Blend briefly, until broken up into smaller 
pieces, then add in the other half of the cake and blend until 
cake is crumbled into small pieces (Figure 2).   
 
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Add frosting to the crumbled cake one large spoonful at a 
time (Figure 3).  After each addition, blend in food processor 
in 10 second bursts until cake mixture begins to ‘come 
together.’ You’ll know you’ve reached this stage when it 
reaches the consistency of Play-doh and starts to make a 
ball inside the processor (Figure 4).  Test a handful by rolling it 
into a ball – if it holds its shape, you’re good to go!
This blending step can also be done by hand in a large 
bowl. It’s harder, messier work this way, adventurer, but I 
know you’re up to the task if need be. CAKE POPS
Part chocolate, part cake, part lollipop, all delicious!  
First made popular by Angie Dudley of Bakerella.com , 
these adorable bites of cake on sticks have endless 
potential to showcase your creativity. If you’re new to cake 
pops, don’t be daunted by the large number of steps. 
All it takes is a little practice (and someone around who’s 
willing to eat the duds)! Read on for the basics on how to 
put together the perfect pop.ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    54(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Flavoring oils can be added to the cake mix when mixing, or 
even blended into the cake and frosting mixture while it is in 
the food processor. Follow flavoring suggestions as outlined in 
each cake pop recipe. SKILL CHECK:
Using a medium scoop levelled off with your thumb, dole out mixture into equal 
sized portions and place on waxed paper (Figure 5).  Shape into balls by rolling in your 
palms, or shape into whatever form the recipe you’re following dictates (Figure 6).  
(Roll into balls quickly after portioning, as the mixture will begin to dry out.)  
 
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    55Add one cup candy melts to a plastic, microwave-safe bowl or cup, and 
microwave in 30 second intervals until just melted, stirring after each interval. It 
should be warm, but not burning hot. The melted candy should be about three 
inches deep in order to fully submerge the cake pop. The thinner the coating, the 
easier it will be to dip the pop; so if you find the candy melt is not runny enough 
to drizzle off a spoon, melt a small amount of vegetable shortening into the mix 
to thin it out.
It’s time to dip! One pop at a time, dip one-half inch of a lollipop stick into the 
melted candy melts, (Figure 7),  then insert the lollipop stick into cake ball, pushing 
it in about half to two-thirds of the way through (Figure 8).  (Don’t let it pop out the 
other side!)
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Allow candy melt to set before attempting to dip the pop – usually by the time 
you’ve attached all the sticks, the first ones you did should be ready to dip. If your 
bowl of candy melts has begun to harden on the edges, remelt in the microwave 
in 30 second bursts.
Holding the lollipop stick, submerge the entire cake pop into the candy melt until 
it creates a seal at the base of the pop (Figure 9 and 10).  You want to accomplish 
complete submersion all in a single dip, or the weight of a “double-dip” will pull 
the pop right off the stick .
Once coated, gently tap the stick against the edge of the bowl / cup, while 
rotating the cake pop until all the excess candy melt has dripped off the pop 
(Figure 11).  Place the cake pop into the styrofoam block to dry, stick side down. Be 
sure to set them far enough apart so that they don’t bump into each other.
At this point, while the candy melt is on the pop but still wet, attach any elements 
required by the specific cake pop recipe (Figure 12).  Do not draw on pops with 
edible ink pens until candy melts have dried completely.  ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    56(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
(Figure 11) (Figure 12)
Repeat with the remaining balls of cake mixture and let them completely dry in the 
styrofoam block before attaching any additional elements.
Store cake pops for up to one week in a cool, dry place.
Troubleshooting: 
“I don’t need 50 cake pops, that’s too many cake pops!”
I get it, not every occasion calls for a full complement of 50 cake pops. If you want 
to make a smaller amount of cake pops, use half of the baked cake instead, and 
save the remaining cake un-crumbled in the freezer for a later date.  ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    57“My cake mixture won’t hold its shape!”
You likely need more frosting in the mix to make it less crumbly. Aim for the texture 
of Play-doh when blending your cake pop mixture.
“My cake is falling off the stick when I dip it!”
Oh no! Don’t worry, adventurer, it happens to even the most advanced warriors.  
Possible causes are:
 ØCake mixture was too crumbly – try adding more frosting until it’s closer to 
the texture of Play-Doh. 
 ØCake mixture is too warm – working in a very warm environment? Try 
sticking the pops into the fridge for 30 minutes to an hour to firm them  
up slightly. But be careful – pops that are too cold can cause the coating 
to crack. 
 ØYou’re tapping the candy coating off too furiously – use a gentle hand when 
tapping. You’re tapping a cake pop, not wielding a mace, adventurer!  
 ØThe candy melt mixture is too thick – try thinning it out by melting in some  
vegetable shortening. 
 ØYour cake pop is too big – the bigger the pop, the harder they fall. Keep 
your pops to a manageable size and they won’t be too weighty for the stick.
The candy melt coating cracked!
This happens when the cake ball inside is too cold when dipped. I find just 
working with the pops in a cool room, without putting them in the fridge to firm up 
at all, gives me the least cracks.
The cake pop appears to be… oozing?
If your pop is starting to leave an oil trail similar to a runaway gelatinous blob, 
it’s likely that you didn’t completely seal the pop when you dipped it. Check the 
bottom and see if there is a gap where you can see the cake mixture, or if there is 
a small crack. You can fill in the gap with a small amount of melted candy melt on 
a toothpick.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    58Beat butter with a mixer on medium-high speed until pale 
and creamy, about two minutes. Make sure butter is at room 
temperature before whipping. You can speed this process 
by unwrapping it and placing it on a plate in the microwave, 
then microwaving in 15 second bursts, rotating between 
each burst, until just softened.
Reduce speed to low. Add sugar, half a cup at a time, 
beating after each addition. Once all sugar is incorporated, 
increase speed to medium-high and beat until fluffy, about 
five minutes. (Don’t skimp on the mixing! The longer you 
whip the frosting, the more air is incorporated and the 
fluffier and easier to pipe the resulting frosting.)  
If you find the frosting is too thick, add milk, one  
tablespoon at a time, stopping when it reaches a smooth 
spreading consistency.   
Add in gel food coloring with a toothpick as recommended 
by the individual recipe and mix until combined. (Start slow – 
you can always add additional color, but you can’t remove it!)  
Mix in vanilla or any flavoring oil as recommended by the 
individual recipe.
Insert recommended tip into piping bag, and follow the 
frosting techniques as illustrated on pages 27 - 33.Buttercream icing will eventually 
form a thin crust on its surface, 
so any sprinkles should be added 
immediately after frosting is piped 
onto the cupcake – otherwise they 
will just roll off the crusted surface. 
I recommend frosting no more than 
six cupcakes at a time before adding 
sprinkles, chocolate chips,  
coconut, etc.1 ½ cups salted butter, softened
5 cups icing sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla or flavo ring oil 
(as listed in the individual recipe)
¼ cup milk
Gel food coloring (as listed in the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Piping bag
Piping tip 
(as listed in the individual recipe)MAKES  5 CREAMY CUPSEvery adventurer should have their go-to ‘weapon of 
choice’ when it comes to frosting, and this recipe is it. 
Wield your piping bag with confidence – this versatile 
recipe will let you frost your way out of any situation. It 
can be easily flavored, colored, and piped in a variety of 
styles and shapes. Check out the Frosting Techniques on 
page 28 to see it in action.CLASSIC BUTTERCREAMSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    60Icing may seem to curdle once 
butter is added. Fear not, 
adventurer! That’s completely normal 
at this stage. Press on – continue 
to beat on medium-low speed, and 
the icing will come together with 
time into the smoothest, creamiest 
frosting you’ve ever eaten. There will 
be bubbles from all the whipping, 
but you can use a spatula to press 
the bubbles out against the side of 
the bowl before adding frosting to a 
piping bag.  Whip room temperature butter in stand or hand mixer until 
light and fluffy, about five minutes. Transfer to another bowl, 
then clean mixer bowl very well before next steps. You’ll be 
using the bowl to whip egg whites, and any grease remaining 
in the bowl will stop them from coming together properly.
Whisk together egg whites, brown sugar, and salt in mixer 
bowl placed on top of a pan of simmering water on the stove. 
Cook, whisking constantly, until the sugar has dissolved and 
the mixture is warm to the touch (about seven minutes.) 
You can tell the sugar is dissolved by putting a bit of the 
mixture between your fingers and rubbing it together to 
make sure there are no longer sugar granules.
Transfer mixer bowl back to stand mixer. Using the whisk 
attachment, beat on medium speed until fluffy and 
cooled, about 15 minutes.
Raise speed to high; beat until stiff peaks form. 
What does ‘stiff peaks’ mean? That’s when you lift out the 
whisk attachment and the egg whites on the end of it come 
to a point without folding over on themselves. (Those would 
be soft peaks.)
Reduce speed to medium-low and switch to paddle 
attachment. Add whipped butter, 2-3 tablespoons at a time, 
until fully incorporated. 8 large egg whites
2 cups packed brown sugar
Pinch of salt
3 cups salted butter, room 
temperature, pre-whipped until 
light and fluffy
Stand mixer
Double boiler, or a mixer bowl set 
over a pan of simmering water
Piping bag
Piping tip (as listed in the  
individual recipe)MAKES  4 CUPS OF BUTTERCREAM BLISSTake buttercream to the next level with this smooth, 
creamy, rich frosting. While it requires some strong 
magics to pull off, as well as some trickery over a bowl of 
simmering water, the result is a heady elixir that adds +10 
AMAZING to any cupcake it tops. BROWN SUGAR SWISS 
MERINGUE BUTTERCREAMSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    62Not using all the frosting right away? 
The remainder can be stored in an 
airtight container in the fridge for 
up to five days, or frozen for up to a 
month. Bring to room temperature 
and beat slowly until smooth when 
ready to use. (Frosting may lighten in 
color when re-whipped, but will still 
be just as delicious!)1 ½ lbs (680 grams) melted and 
cooled semi-sweet chocolate
½ cup + 1 tablespoon 
unsweetened cocoa powder
½ cup + 1 tablespoon boiling water
2 ¼ cup salted butter
¾ cup icing sugar
Hand or stand mixer
Piping bag
Piping tip (as listed in the 
individual recipe)
MAKES  5 DARK AND MYSTERIOUS CUPS
Melt chocolate in a double boiler, or carefully on stovetop at 
a low temperature. Once melted, set aside to cool.
In a separate bowl, combine cocoa and boiling water, 
stirring until cocoa has dissolved. Set aside. 
Beat butter with a mixer on medium-high speed until pale 
and creamy, about two minutes.  
Reduce speed to low. Add icing sugar and mix until 
incorporated. Put mixer back up to medium-high and beat 
until pale and fluffy, about five minutes.  
Reduce speed back to low and add cooled chocolate, 
mixing until combined and scraping down sides and bottom 
of bowl with a spatula. 
Beat in cocoa mixture.  
Insert recommended tip into piping bag, and follow the 
frosting techniques as illustrated on pages 27 - 33.You pass through the tattered old gates of a once 
bustling township and head toward the house high on the 
hill, home to a powerful witch, now one of the town’s only 
residents. She lets you in her front door, and when you 
look in her eyes, an old woman is staring back at you, not 
the vibrant sorceress you once knew. 
“What happened?” you ask. “You’ve aged 50 years since 
we last met!”  
She tells you she made a trade with a fiery-eyed baker who 
came to town: her youth and magics in exchange for the 
best chocolate frosting recipe this world has ever known.
That recipe, adventurer, is inscribed below. And yes —  
it’s worth it.  DARK CHOCOLATE FROSTINGSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    64While the classic and vegan 
buttercream frostings can sit at 
room temperature overnight, this 
cream cheese frosting should be 
refrigerated in an airtight container. 
Bring cupcakes to room temperature 
before nomming the next day – or 
sneak out to the fridge at night and 
just lick all the chilled frosting off 
each and every cupcake, then blame 
it on the dog. I’m not here to judge. 
Do it to it, adventurer.  1 ½ cups salted butter, softened
Half brick of cream cheese, softened
5 cups icing sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla Flavoring oil  
(as listed in the individual recipe)
Gel food coloring (as listed in the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Piping bag
Piping tip (as listed in the 
individual recipe)MAKES  5 CREAMY, CHEESY CUPS
Beat butter and cream cheese together with a mixer on 
medium-high speed until pale and creamy, about two minutes. 
Reduce speed to low. Add sugar, half a cup at a time, 
beating after each addition. Once all sugar is incorporated, 
increase speed to medium-high and beat until fluffy, about 
five minutes. (Don’t skimp on the mixing! The longer you 
whip the frosting, the more air is incorporated and the 
fluffier the resulting frosting.)  
Mix in vanilla and any flavoring oil as recommended by the 
individual recipe. 
Insert recommended tip into piping bag, and follow the 
frosting techniques as illustrated on pages 27 - 33.What’s better than buttercream frosting? Buttercream 
frosting with a generous portion of cream cheese mixed 
into it. Like a time-travelling Doctor and his “much-
younger-but-mentally-comparable” companion, some 
things in this world are just meant to be thrown together. CREAM CHEESE FROSTINGQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    66SKILL CHECK:
Don’t let the raw egg whites scare 
you away from this classic fluffy 
frosting! The temperature they reach 
during the double boiling as well as 
the inclusion of a large amount of 
sugar makes them safe to eat. If you 
have a candy thermometer, your egg 
white mixture should reach at least 
160° F, according to the Sorcerer 
Supreme over at the U.S. Department 
of Health & Human Services.1 ½ cups granulated sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
¼ cup water
6 large egg whites  
(do not substitute egg whites in a 
carton for these)
1 teaspoon vanilla
Stand mixer
Double boiler, or a mixer bowl set 
over a pan of simmering water
Piping bag
Piping tip (as listed in the 
individual recipe)This light and fluffy meringue-style frosting is as versatile 
as it is “floofy.” Use it to pile towering tops on chocolate-
dipped hi-hat cupcakes or toast it with a kitchen torch for 
a ‘toasted marshmallow’ effect.  
Whisk together sugar, corn syrup, water, and egg whites 
in mixer bowl placed on top of a pan of simmering water. 
Cook, whisking constantly, until the sugar has dissolved and 
the mixture is warm to the touch, about two minutes (Figure 1).    
Attach bowl to a mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and 
beat on high speed until glossy and oh-so-fluffy, with stiff-
peaks, (Figure 2).  This will take about seven minutes. Hence 
the name! See what they did there? Seven minutes! Beat in 
vanilla until combined. 
 
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Use immediately – frosting surface will quickly harden, so 
insert recommended tip into piping bag and follow frosting 
techniques as illustrated on pages 27 - 33.MAKES  8 CUPS OF FLOOF7-MINUTE FLOOFY FROSTINGQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    68SKILL CHECK:
If you find the buttercream is too 
thick for your spreading or piping 
needs, thin it out with any non-dairy 
beverage or liquid creamer you 
have on hand. Coconut oil will also 
do the trick, but keep in mind it will 
also add a noticeable (but delicious!) 
coconut flavor to your frosting.  ½ cup vegetable shortening  
(non-hydrogenated!)
½ cup vegan margarine  
(also non-hydrogenated!)
3 ½ cups powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
¼ cup soy milk  
(or other non-dairy milk)
Flavoring oil (as listed in the 
individual recipe)
Gel food coloring (as listed in the 
individual recipe)
Stand or hand mixer
Piping bag
Piping tip (as listed in the 
 individual recipe)MAKES  5 CUPS
Add shortening and margarine to a large mixing bowl or to 
bowl of a stand mixer, and mix until combined, scraping the 
sides and bottom of the bowl with a spatula. 
Reduce speed to low. Add sugar, half a cup at a time, 
beating after each addition. Once all sugar is incorporated, 
increase speed to medium-high and beat until fluffy, about 
five minutes. (Don’t skimp on the mixing! The longer you 
whip the frosting, the more air is incorporated and the 
fluffier the resulting frosting.)  
If you find the frosting is too thick, add soy milk or any other 
non-dairy milk beverage a tablespoon at a time, stopping 
when it reaches a smooth, spreading consistency.   
Mix in vanilla and any flavoring oil as listed in the  
 individual recipe. 
Insert recommended tip into piping bag, and follow frosting 
techniques as illustrated on pages 27 - 33.For vegan adventurers! Pair with the Vegan Chocolate 
Cupcakes on page 48, or with the Vegan Vanilla Cupcakes 
on page 50. BUTTERLESS BUTTERCREAMQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    70SKILL CHECK:Royal icing frosts a beautiful cookie, but can be a tireless 
battle when it comes to consistency. Too thin, and it will run 
right off the cookie. Too thick, and you end up with a bumpy 
unattractive surface. However, there is a ‘win’ condition for 
the perfect royal icing consistency, and it’s called “The 10 
Second Rule“. 
Drag a butter knife through the surface of the royal icing 
and count to 10: 
 
If the icing surface smooths out in 7-10 seconds:  You win! 
The icing is ready to use.
If it takes longer than 10 seconds to smooth:  The icing is 
too thick. Add a teaspoon of water and mix for a minute or 
so to thin out. 
If it smooths over in less than 7-10 seconds:  It is too 
runny. Mix your icing longer or slowly add more sifted icing 
sugar to thicken it.
Note:  while this is my perfect icing consistency, you may 
find yours will vary. There are a lot of cookie peeps out 
there in the internets, and not one has the same technique 
or timing. Try it out and see what works best for you. Soon 
enough you’ll fall into your own icing groove.
In mixer bowl, combine warm water and meringue powder. 
Mix with a whisk by hand until frothy and thickened, about 
30 seconds.
Add cream of tartar and mix by hand for another  
30 seconds.
Pour in all icing sugar at once and place the bowl on the 
mixer. Icing sugar does not have to be sifted.
Using the paddle attachment on the LOWEST speed, mix 
for a full 10 minutes. Icing will become thick and creamy.
Tint with gel food coloring and any flavoring oil as 
recommended by the individual recipe.Cover unused portion with a 
dampened tea towel while piping 
to prevent icing from crusting over. 
“But… I forgot the tea towel and it’s 
all crunchy on top!” you exclaim. No 
worries – here’s a combat trick to get 
you back on top. Don’t mix it back 
together, or tiny crunchy bits will be 
incorporated into the mix, causing 
your piping tip to clog. Instead, give 
it a quick spray from a clean spray 
bottle filled with water and let sit 
until the crusted layer softens, then 
stir back together. This is also a great 
way to add just enough water to get 
the consistency you want.¾ cup warm water
5 tablespoons meringue powder
1 teaspoon cream of tartar 
(it’s a thing - check the baking aisle 
or with the spices)
5 cups icing sugar
Stand or hand mixerMAKES  6 CUPSROYAL ICINGQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    72NO-FAIL SUGAR COOKIES
MAKES  4-5 DOZEN, DEPENDING ON COOKIE SIZEFor a ‘perfect every time’ cookie that looks like you plucked 
it from a portal you placed in Martha Stewart’s pantry.
Preheat oven to 350° F.
Beat butter and sugar together with a mixer on medium-
high speed until pale and creamy, about two minutes. 
In a separate large bowl, whisk together dry ingredients.
Add eggs and vanilla to creamed butter and sugar. Mix well. 
With mixer on lowest speed, add flour mixture a little at 
a time to butter mixture. Mix until the flour is completely 
incorporated and the dough comes together. (Dough will 
be crumbly. You may need to turn out the dough onto a flat 
surface and finish mixing it by hand.)
Roll out dough using the rolling technique outlined on page 
34, and cut out with cookie cutters or cookie template. 
(Template instructions are on page 35.) Bake on ungreased 
baking sheet at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges.2 cups salted butter,  
room temperature 
2 cups granulated sugar
5 cups all-purpose flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
½ teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
Stand or hand mixer
Rolling pin
Cookie cutter, sharp paring knife, 
or X-acto knifeQuest Requirements:
ESSENTIAL BAKING SPELLS    74MAKES  3-4 DOZEN, DEPENDING ON COOKIE SIZECHOCOLATE SUGAR COOKIES
Not feeling the classic vanilla cookie? Looking to impress 
a certain half-demon cutie who has a sweet dragon 
familiar and a love of all things chocolate? Take a walk on 
the dark side with these rich chocolate sugar cookies. 
Preheat oven to 350° F.
Beat butter, oil, sugar, vanilla, and salt with a mixer on 
medium-high speed until mixture is smooth, about a minute.  
Add the egg and mix until incorporated, then add 
cornstarch, cocoa powder, and 1 ¼ cups of the flour. 
Continue adding flour until the dough begins to form a ball 
and come away from the sides of the mixer bowl – you may 
not need to incorporate all the flour.  
Roll out dough using the rolling technique outlined on 
page 34, and cut out with cookie cutters or cookie template. 
(Template instructions are on page 35.) Bake on ungreased 
baking sheet at 375° F for 10-12 minutes, or until cookie 
surfaces look dry and feel firm around the edges and are set 
in the middle.½ cup salted butter, 
room temperature
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
½ teaspoon salt
1 large egg
¼ cup cornstarch
½ cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1¼ to 2 cups all-purpose flour
Stand or hand mixer
Rolling pin
Cookie cutter, sharp paring knife,  
or X-acto knifeSQUIRE  77
LEVEL ONE
“Starter quests to begin your baking adventure.”SQUIRE    78SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
Melted chocolate = sticky chocolate. 
But once drizzled onto the frosting, 
the candy melt will quickly begin to 
set and the chocolate chips will no 
longer stick. For that reason, sprinkle 
the chocolate chips immediately 
after each drizzle: drizzle, sprinkle, 
drizzle, sprinkle, driz — you see what 
I’m getting at here.Moist Chocolate Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 44)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Peppermint flavoring oil
1 bag chocolate chips
1 cup dark chocolate candy melts
Piping bag with large star tip +  
an additional piping bag
Cupcake liners (green or  
black recommended)
Green gel food coloringPreheat oven to 350° F, and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners.
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcakes recipe (see page 
44). Once batter is complete, mix in one-half teaspoon of 
peppermint flavoring (or more to taste.)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove cupcakes from the pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58.)
Tint buttercream with green gel food coloring by adding 
coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. (No double 
dipping!) Mix to incorporate color.
Add 15-20 drops of peppermint flavoring to buttercream with 
an eyedropper, and mix until combined. Add more flavoring 
to taste. Not minty enough for you? More flavoring drops!
When cupcakes are cool, frost a classic rosette  on top with 
large star tip. (See page 27 for frosting technique.)
Add one cup of dark chocolate candy melts to a piping bag 
with no tip and twist closed, sealing with an elastic. Place 
in microwave and heat briefly until just melted, about 30 
seconds to a minute.
Snip off the very tip of the piping bag, and drizzle the 
chocolate onto the frosting with a quick back-and-forth 
motion. Sprinkle on chocolate chips. MAKES  30-32 CUPCAKESWe all know it’s a sin to take it out of the package.  
But you won’t be able to resist with these minty, melty, 
delicious cupcakes. So go for it, adventurer – eBay resale 
value be damned.MINT CONDITION CUPCAKESSQUIRE    80Quest Requirements:
Preheat oven to 350° F, and line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 18 minutes, or until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
Prepare the Cookie Dough Filling:
Combine butter and brown sugar in a mixing bowl and 
cream on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 
two minutes.
Beat in flour, sweetened condensed milk, and vanilla until 
incorporated and smooth. Use less or more sweetened 
condensed milk as necessary to help make the consistency 
close to cookie dough. Mix in the mini chocolate chips.
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until the mixture has 
firmed up a bit, about an hour.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake (Figure 1).  Feel free to nom immediately, or put in a 
ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Use a mini scoop or your hands to portion out prepared 
Cookie Dough Filling into bite-sized balls. Remainder can MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKES IN WHICH TO DROWN SORROWSAll quests can be treacherous, sometimes to “the feels.” 
Has a handsome rogue run away with the contents of 
your bag of holding — and your heart along with it? Then 
this is just the cupcake to push those feelings way, waaaay 
down to the bottom of your stomach.
Vanilla cake stuffed with a mouthful of sinful raw cookie 
dough, topped with a smooth brown sugar swiss 
meringue buttercream, chocolate chips, and a mini 
chocolate chip cookie. Uungh, YES.THE BREAK-CUP
Foolproof Vanilla C upcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Brown Sugar Swiss Meringue 
Buttercream (see page 60)
1 bag mini chocolate chips
24 mini chocolate chip cookies
For the Cookie Dough Filling:
4 tablespoons salted butter,  
room temperature
6 tablespoons brown sugar, packed
1 cup + 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
7 ounces sweetened condensed milk
½ teaspoon vanilla
¼ cup mini chocolate chips
Piping bag with large star tip
Cupcake liners (gold or white 
recommended)
Cupcake corer (optional)SQUIRE    82be put on a cookie sheet until frozen, then stored in a ziplock bag in the freezer for 
two or three months.
Insert Cookie Dough Filling balls into holes created in cupcakes (Figure 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Prepare Brown Sugar Swiss Meringue Buttercream recipe (see page 60).
Frost cupcakes with flat rosette  using a large star tip (see page 28 for frosting 
technique), sprinkle with chocolate chips, and top with a single mini chocolate chip 
cookie (Figures 3 and 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
SQUIRE    83
For the mini chocolate chip cookies, store-bought Mini Chips Ahoy 
cookies will work great and are just the right size. Regular sized cookies 
broken in half can be used as well. You can, of course, bake tiny 
chocolate chip cookies from scratch. However, this will require you to add 
+10 to the “Show-Off” stat on your character sheet.SKILL CHECK:SQUIRE    84Quest Requirements:
¼ cup salted butter
1 bag marshmallows, standard size 
(about 40 marshmallows)
1 teaspoon vanilla
Green gel food coloring
Black gel food coloring
6 cups crisped rice cereal
2-inch ball of chocolate fondant
Creeper Crispies template
Plastic (not latex) gloves
9 x 13 inch baking pan
Waxed paperIn a large saucepan over low heat, melt butter. Add 
marshmallows; stir until melted and well blended. Remove 
from heat.
Stir in vanilla and green dye until desired green color is 
reached (Figure 1).  Add cereal, stirring until coated. It takes 
a good amount of stirring to cover all the cereal completely 
(Figure 2).  Just when you think you’re done, keep going a 
little longer! 
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Rub a tiny bit of butter on your hands to make them 
non-stick, and press mixture into a 9 x 13 inch pan lined 
with waxed paper. Re-apply butter to ‘de-stick’ hands as 
required. Cool pan and contents in fridge.
While squares are cooling, don your stylish plastic gloves and 
tint some chocolate fondant with black gel food coloring. Roll 
out to one-eighth of an inch thick on waxed paper, and let dry 
for one hour.MAKES  12 SQUARES, CREEPY AND CRISPYAs you journey ever forward in your baking quest, you 
hear a growing hissing behind you: you work up the 
courage to turn around, clutching your meager blade in 
your quivering, sweaty palm, and see a mighty Creeper 
towering over you!
But all is well, adventurer. He just wants you to make 
some crisped rice cereal treats in his image for a Creeper 
sleepover he’s hosting. He’s actually a swell guy. CREEPER CRISPIESSQUIRE    86Print Creeper Crispies template (visit books.geeksweets.net to print templates), 
and trace 3 shapes onto a piece of wax paper. Cut shapes out of wax paper with 
scissors. Place a tiny dot of butter on cut wax paper template to stick to fondant, 
then cut around edge with a sharp knife. Repeat until you have 12 sets of 3. For 
more details on how to use fondant with templates, check out the Custom Edible 
Toppers tutorial on page 204.
Once cool, remove the squares from the pan by grabbing the edges of the waxed 
paper. Flip squares over and slowly peel off the waxed paper. (Don’t rush it! Or 
you’ll end up with little bits of waxed paper stuck to the squares, and the Creepers 
will be most unimpressed.)
Cut squares into twelve 3 x 3 inch squares. You’ll see you’re left with an additional 
1 x 9 inch piece. That’s for you, adventurer! You’ve come this far – you deserve it. 
Press the fondant face pieces in place on top of each square, then flip square 
over and press down onto a clean, flat countertop to press them even further into 
place. Store in a plastic container between pieces of waxed paper until they’re 
handed off to the Creeper and his bros.
Feeling lazy? What squire doesn’t, every now and then? Let’s microwave the 
marshmallows to save some time. Start by microwaving the butter at full 
power for 30 to 60 seconds or until melted. Add marshmallows, tossing to 
coat. Microwave at full power 1-1 ½ minutes, stirring after 45 seconds. Stop 
when smooth and completely melted. Follow remaining steps as listed.SKILL CHECK:SQUIRE    87
SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
Don’t worry about trying to get the 
majority of the chocolate to drip 
off the dipped marshmallow before 
plopping it on top of the cupcake. 
Part of this cupcake’s charm is the 
chocolate dripping down over  
the buttercream.Foolproof Vanilla Cupcak es recipe  
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
1 cup peanuts, chopped
½ cup creamy peanut butter
1 tablespoon vanilla
1 jar marshmallow fluff
½ cup dark chocolate candy melts
15 large marshmallows
2 piping bags, 1 intact and  
one fitted with large star tip
Cupcake liners 
(white recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42.)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
large ice cream scoop or a spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until 
a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan 
and allow to come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58.)
Add peanut butter and vanilla to the buttercream and mix 
until combined. Add more or less peanut butter to taste. 
Do not use crunchy peanut butter, as it will be more difficult 
to pipe from a piping bag.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or put in a ziplock 
bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Fill a piping bag with marshmallow fluff, cut off the tip, 
and use to fill the holes made in the cupcakes (Figure 
1). Marshmallow fluff, while delicious, is an ooey-gooey 
disaster – hence the piping bag. You can use a spoon and 
a finger covered with a light coating of margarine to fill the 
cupcakes, just have some damp paper towels standing by!    
Frost cupcakes with a classic rosette , using a large star tip, 
and set aside. (See page 28 for frosting techniques.) 
Cut marshmallows in half diagonally and set aside (Figure 2MAKES  22-25 FLUFFY NUTTY CUPCAKESAside from being an excellent nickname for a cat, a 
Fluffernutter is a sugar bomb of a sandwich advertised 
on the side of a jar of marshmallow fluff – peanut 
butter and marshmallow sandwiched between two 
slices of moist white bread. Recreate this monstrosity 
of a sandwich with the cupcake recipe below, then top 
it off with a chocolate-dipped marshmallow for a little 
added flair. Because we’re fancy like that.FLUFFERNUTTER CUPCAKESSQUIRE    88SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
SQUIRE    89(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Add dark chocolate candy melts to a microwave-safe bowl and microwave in 30 
second intervals until melted, stirring after each interval.
Melt the bottom half of one of the cut marshmallows into the chocolate and 
immediately press it into the top of the cupcake. While the chocolate is still wet, 
sprinkle with chopped peanuts (Figures 3 and 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
SQUIRE    90Quest Requirements:
Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe  
(see page 44)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
½ cup chopped walnuts
1/3 cup shredded coconut
5 tablespoons Bird’s Custard Powder
½ cup dark chocolate candy melts
Piping bag with large round tip
Cupcake liners (brown or  
black recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44). 
Once batter is complete, add in the chopped walnuts and 
shredded coconut, mixing just until combined.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58.)
Once the buttercream is prepared, mix Bird’s Custard 
Powder with one or two tablespoons of hot water in a small 
dish – just enough to make it a darker yellow color, and 
create a texture that is thick, creamy, and can be stirred 
with a spoon. Mix into buttercream. Add additional custard 
powder to taste.
When cupcakes are cool, frost a flat top  with large round 
tip. (see page 28 for frosting techniques.)
Let cupcakes sit for 10 to 15 minutes, until tops develop a 
thin crust, then use paper towel to flatten out any bumps. MAKES  32-34 CUPCAKESI know what you’re thinking, adventurer - what the heck  
is a Nanaimo? 
Well, if you’ve spoken with the bravest of warriors, those 
who have ventured north to the wilds of “CA-NA-DA”, 
then you’ve likely heard tales of a layered dessert – one 
with a chocolate top layer, a creamy yellow middle layer of 
unknown origin, and a crunchy, nutty base.  
“How do we make a bar into a cupcake?” you ask. 
“Where does the crunch come from? What makes the 
middle yellow? Seriously, where is Nanaimo?” For the 
answers to your questions, let’s journey onward.NANAIMO BAR CUPCAKESSQUIRE    92Add dark chocolate candy melts to a microwave-safe bowl and microwave  
in 30 second intervals until melted, stirring after each interval. Allow to cool  
5-10 minutes before beginning to dip so chocolate is not so warm that it melts  
the frosting.
Dip the top of the cupcake in the melted candy melts, until about half of the 
frosting is covered (Figures 1 and 2).  A quick ‘wiggle’ of the cupcake once upright 
can help level out the chocolate shell. The candy melt will set quickly once on the 
cupcake. If the candy melts in your bowl start to harden before you’ve finished 
topping the cupcakes, simply reheat in the microwave.
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Bird’s Custard Powder: it’s one of those ingredients that you never knew 
existed, and that you will likely only ever use for making these cupcakes 
and perhaps some actual Nanaimo bars. You’ll find it in the baking aisle 
of your local supermarket. It’s there, I assure you, probably down near 
the bottom, calling out to shoppers as they walk by, dust-covered but 
hopeful, waiting to fulfil its one and only glorious, creamy purpose. 
Oh, and Nanaimo is in British Columbia, BTW.SKILL CHECK:SQUIRE    93
Quest Requirements:
Foolproof Vanilla  Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
¼ cup instant coffee crystals
Brown gel food coloring
Chocolate covered coffee beans
3 piping bags, 2 intact, 1 fitted with 
a large star tip
Cupcake liners  
(brown recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with  
cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42) to the point when batter is complete.
In a small bowl, add a few drops of hot water to instant 
coffee crystals – just enough to dissolve the crystals. Add 
half the mixture to the batter and fold in with a spatula until 
a marble effect is achieved (Figure 1).  
(Figure 1)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
large ice cream scoop or a spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, 
until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the 
cupcake comes out clean. Carefully remove from the 
cupcake pan and allow to come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58) with 
two tablespoons of vanilla flavoring.
Remove about half of the buttercream from the mixing 
bowl and reserve for later. Add the rest of the dissolved MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESYou’ve been gaming for 13 hours straight and your stamina 
is dangerously low – it’s time to invoke the magnificent 
power of an ancient elixir gamers have been using for years 
to increase their stats across the board – caffeine.#SENDCOFFEE CUPCAKES
Quest Requirements:SQUIRE    94
SQUIRE    95
coffee crystals to the remaining buttercream in the mixing bowl. Add brown gel 
food coloring to the reserved buttercream to create a lighter brown shade then the 
buttercream you added the dissolved coffee crystals to. Create a two-color piping 
bag with the directions from page 31 
(Figure 1 and 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
When cupcakes are cooled, frost with two-flavor buttercream in a classic rosette  
using a large star tip (see page 28 for frosting techniques.)
Top with a chocolate covered coffee bean
What wizardry is this? This recipe uses a magical two-flavor frosting technique 
that creates a visually appealing two-tone swirl. To learn this technique, handed 
down from the “Ancient Ones” of Baking, climb the mountain of Buttercreamia 
and speak to the reclusive elders perched atop its peaks. 
OR, refer to the multicolor frosting technique outlined on page 31 of this book.SKILL CHECK:SQUIRE    96Quest Requirements:
Foolproof Vanilla Cu pcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Yellow and pink gel food coloring
Rainbow sprinkles
2-inch ball of white fondant
1 piping bag, fitted wi th a  
large star tip
Cupcake liners  
(pink recommended)
Plastic (not latex!) glovesPreheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42.)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
large ice cream scoop or a spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until 
a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan 
and allow to come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58) with two tablespoons of vanilla.
Tint buttercream with yellow gel food coloring by adding 
coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. (No double 
dipping!) Mix to incorporate color.
When cupcakes are cooled, frost a classic rosette  with 
buttercream using a large star tip (see page 28 for frosting 
techniques.) Sprinkle immediately with rainbow sprinkles.
With plastic gloves on, tint fondant bright pink. Create bow 
shape by making a rectangle and pinching in the middle 
together. (Figure 1).  Wrap a small piece of fondant around the 
middle, and add to top of cupcake, tilted slightly (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESWOKKA WOKKA WOKKACAKES
No quarters necessary to hang out with this first lady of 
the arcade. Just don’t be surprised if all you do together 
is run from ghosts. She has a type.SQUIRE    98Quest Requirements:
Foolproof Vanilla Cupca kes recipe  
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
2 tablespoons vanilla
1 cup marshmallow fluff
Mini marshmallows
1 packet Dream Whip topping mix
Strawberry flavoring oil
Light pink gel food coloring
2 tablespoons Disco Dust 
(edible, non-toxic glitter)
1 piping bag, 1 int act, 1 fitted  
with a large star tip
Cupcake liners  
(pink recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58) with 
two tablespoons of vanilla flavoring.
Add one cup marshmallow fluff and 15 drops strawberry 
flavoring to the buttercream and mix until combined.
Tint buttercream with light pink gel food coloring by adding 
coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. (No double 
dipping!) Mix to incorporate color.
Put aside prepared buttercream. In a clean mixer bowl, 
prepare Dream Whip by following directions on package. 
Tint dream whip with light pink gel food coloring (just a tiny 
dot!) and 6-8 drops of strawberry flavoring. Fill a piping bag 
with the prepared strawberry-flavored Dream Whip and cut 
off the tip.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake (Figure 1).  Feel free to nom immediately, or put in a 
ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Fill holes in cupcakes with prepared strawberry-flavored 
Dream Whip (Figure 2).MAKES  22-25 SPARKLY CUPCAKESMoist! Fluffy! Pink! Squeeeeeee! Vanilla cake,topped with 
strawberry marshmallow frosting and mini marshmallows. 
Do you have girl parts? Then this cupcake’s for you!HELLO CUPCAKESQUIRE    100(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Frost with buttercream in a classic rosette  using a large star tip (see page 28 for 
frosting techniques.) Sprinkle immediately with a light dusting of Disco Dust by 
dipping a large, soft-bristled paintbrush into the container, then tapping it lightly 
over the frosted cupcakes (Figure 3).
Top with three mini marshmallows, (Figure 4),  and bask in the fluffy marshmallowy 
glory of the pinkest cupcake known to humankind. 
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Disco Dust. Baking Wizards far and wide have been debating the use of this 
sparkling substance since the first wedding cake demanded, ‘make me more 
sassy!’ The line between ‘edible’ and ‘just digestible’ is a bit blurred, depending 
on who you talk to. While I wouldn’t eat it by the spoonful, a light dusting can be 
used to give your baked goods some non-toxic sparkle.SKILL CHECK:SQUIRE    102Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
The snozberries taste 
like snozberries! Interested 
in recreating the mixed flavor 
extravaganza from the ‘wallpaper 
licking’ scene inside Willy Wonka’s 
Chocolate Factory? Mix five or six 
drops of a random flavor oil into 
each scoop of cake pop mixture 
before rolling into a ball and have a 
blast guessing which is which!Cake Pop recipe (see page 52  
for recipe and supplies)
1 package milk chocolate  
candy melts
Rainbow candy-coated  
chocolate chips 
Assorted flavoring oils (optional)Follow cake pop recipe from page 52, right up until the 
pops are ready to dip.
Fill a large bowl with the rainbow candy-coated chocolate 
chips. Make sure it’s a big bowl, otherwise candy scatters 
everywhere! Take it from someone still picking candy bits 
out of the toaster.
Dip pop in melted candy melts, and while the chocolate 
is still wet, hold the pop over the bowl of chocolate chips. 
Sprinkle handfuls over the pop, letting the excess chocolate 
chips fall back into the bowl. Rotate pop as you are pouring 
to cover all sides (Figure 1).
Chocolate will harden fast, so only do one pop at a time. If 
you find a few gaps, use a toothpick to smear on additional 
melted chocolate and a pair of tweezers to fill in the gaps 
with the chocolate chips (Figure 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Pops can be stored at room temperature in a cool dry place for 
up to seven days from the day the original cake was baked.MAKES  40-50 CAKE POPSA simple pop to make, with a big impact   – people will 
think you’ve kidnapped an Oompa-Loompa to do your 
baking bidding. If you can’t find rainbow candy-coated 
chocolate chips at your local bulk store, any brightly 
colored candy will do – rainbow nerds or chopped mini 
M&M’s, for example.SNOZBERRY CAKE POPSSQUIRE    104SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
“Why not just pipe the jam  
into the cupcake holes from a piping 
bag? Why use a spoon like some 
common cave-dwelling ghoul?” you 
ask. I’ll tell you why: jam is chunky. 
All sorts of big fruity bits to get in 
the way of your clever piping plans. 
Best use a spoon, adventurer.Foolproof Vanilla Cu pcakes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
2 tablespoons vanilla
1 cup honey roasted peanuts
½ cup creamy peanut butter
½ cup jam, any fl avor  
(I like raspberry best,  
but you do you, adventurer.)
Piping bag with large star tip
Cupcake liners (coordinate with the 
color of your jam! Blue for blueberry, 
pink for strawberry, etc.)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58) with 
two tablespoons of vanilla flavoring.
Add one quarter cup of the peanut butter to the 
buttercream and mix until combined. Add more peanut 
butter to taste if desired. Do not use crunchy peanut butter, 
as it will be more difficult to pipe from a piping bag.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or put in a ziplock 
bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Using a spoon, fill holes in cupcakes with chosen jam flavor. 
Frost cupcakes in a classic rosette  with star tip (see page 28 
for frosting techniques), and top with three honey roasted 
peanuts – or a whole bunch if you like a lot of crunch!MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESEvery serious adventurer knows the value of a PB & J 
stuffed into their Bag of Holding. After a long day of sweet-
talking tavern patrons, fending off spells, and slugging 
goblins in the face, reaching into your bag and finding that 
sweet, sweet PB & J is the perfect end to your day. 
But what if that sandwich… was a cupcake? Now we’re 
talking. Short of using a transmogrification spell on your 
sandwich, the recipe below is just what you’re looking for.  PB & J CUPCAKESSQUIRE    106SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
Make sure to press the full-size Oreo 
down to the bottom of the cupcake 
through the batter, rather than just 
adding it to the baking cup before 
adding batter. When cooled, the 
Oreo will still remain crunchy inside 
the cupcake - fancy!Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe  
(see page 44)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
1 bag full-size Oreos
1 bag mini Oreos
Piping bag with medium round tip
Cupcake liners  
(black recommended)MAKES  30-32 COOKIE-STUFFED CUPCAKES
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44)
Fill cupcake liners just under two-thirds of the way to the 
top with a disher or spoon, then press a single Oreo cookie 
all the way down to the bottom of the cupcake until it is flat 
against the bottom of the cupcake pan (Figure 1 and 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the 
center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully remove from 
the cupcake pan and allow to come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58.)
Place the remaining full-size Oreos into a large zip-top 
freezer bag (or any other plastic bag with the top sealed), 
and crush with a rolling pin. Mix into buttercream until just 
combined. Do not over-mix or frosting will turn grey!
When cupcakes are cool, frost a tall coil  with large round 
tip (see page 28 for frosting techniques), and insert a single 
mini Oreo cookie right on top.  Yummy and moist chocolate cake with an Oreo 
baked right into the base, topped with crunchy Oreo 
buttercream and topped with a tiny Oreo. 
Did I mention there’s Oreos in there?
...There’s Oreos in there.COOKIES ’N CREAM CUPCAKESSQUIRE    108Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
Can’t get ahold of the ice cube tray? 
Geek Sweets has you covered. Print 
out the Cellular Peptide Cake topper 
template from books.geeksweets.
net and follow the directions on the 
template for making a topper with 
candy melts.Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Mint flavoring
1 package dark chocolate candy melts
Gold luster dust
Gel food coloring in no-taste red, 
golden yellow, blue, and green
Star Trek Starfleet Silicone Ice 
Cube Tray or Cellular Peptide 
Cake topper template
3 piping bags with large round tip
Large soft-bristled paintbrush
Cupcake liners (black recommended.)MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKES
Create the communicator badge toppers:
Add dark chocolate candy melts to a piping bag with no  
tip and twist closed, sealing with an elastic. Place in 
microwave and heat briefly until just melted, about 30 
seconds to a minute.
Make sure silicone mold is completely clean and dry. Snip 
off the very tip of the piping bag and fill the silicone mold all 
the way to the top with melted candy melts (Figure 1).  (If you 
do not have the silicone mold, then follow the instructions 
on the Cellular Peptide Cake topper template to create your 
own. Visit books.geeksweets.net for templates.)
Carefully lift up the filled tray, and while keeping it level, tap 
on a flat surface to allow chocolate to settle and make any 
air bubbles rise to the top (Figure 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Place tray in freezer for at least 20 minutes until chocolate is 
completely hardened.
Once hardened, carefully remove chocolate communicators 
by bending silicone mold to release, starting by pulling 
away edges. If chocolate is completely hardened, the badge Straight from your favorite shiny gold android’s fever 
dream (no, not that gold android, the other one), it’s 
Lieutenant Commander Worf’s favorite cake! CELLULAR PEPTIDE CAKE… 
WITH MINT FROSTINGSQUIRE    110should come away easily (Figure 3).  You can wear chocolate handling gloves or use a 
piece of paper towel to help minimize the amount of fingerprints on the surface of 
the chocolate.
While some condensation is still on the chilled chocolate, brush on a coating of 
the gold luster dust using a soft paintbrush (Figure 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Repeat until you have made enough chocolate communicator badges for all 
the cupcakes, refilling the piping bag and melting more chocolate in 30 second 
intervals as required. Set aside chocolate in a cool, dry place out of direct sunlight 
until your cupcakes are ready.
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42.) Fill cupcake liners 
two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until 
a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. 
Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to room temperature.
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58). Add 15-20 drops of peppermint 
flavoring to buttercream and mix until combined. Add more flavoring to taste. Not 
minty enough? More flavoring drops! Lieutenant Commander Worf likes it minty!
Divide the buttercream into 3 equal portions. You can use a kitchen scale if you 
have one, or just eyeball it. Dye one-third of the buttercream with the no-taste red 
coloring, one-third of the buttercream with golden yellow, and the last third with 
blue. (To get a blue that is closest to the medical branch Starfleet uniform color, 
add a teeny-tiny hint of green to the blue.)
Fill three piping bags outfitted with large round tips with each color of buttercream, 
or use one piping bag rinsed out between colors. Frost cupcakes with a flat top  (see 
page 28 for frosting techniques), and top with chocolate communicator badges. SQUIRE    111You’ve completed the first level of your training! Time to lay 
down your sword and take a night off. Whip up the following 
recipes, invite over that charismatic elf archer and her friends 
you met at the tavern the other night, and blow the dust off 
your copy of Catan – it’s time for a Game Night.
Visit books.geeksweets.net to print ‘Game Night’ invites 
and printables from this section!GAME NIGHTSQUIRE    112Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
For adventurers of high-level  
sanity only.No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe  
(see page 72)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
Gel food coloring in green, black,  
and no-taste red
1 small tube of red decorating gel 
Cthulhu Cookie template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto knife or sharp  
paring knife
1 piping bag fitted with a # 2 tip,  
filled with green royal icing
1 piping bag fitted with a #1 tip,  
filled with red royal icingPrepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe as directed on 
page 72, to the point where dough is ready to roll out.
Roll out dough and cut into shapes, (Figures 1 and 2),  using 
the Cthulhu Cookie template and the cookie dough rolling / 
cutting instructions from page 34. (Visit books.geeksweets.
net to print template.)
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges. Carefully 
remove from baking sheet and allow to cool completely. 
Prepare Royal Icing recipe from page 70 while cookies are 
cooling. Remove one-third cup of frosting and dye it with 
no-taste red. Store in a sealed container or a bowl covered 
with a wet cloth. Set aside. To the remaining frosting, 
add green gel dye with a few tiny dots of black to darken 
the green shade. Fill piping bags as listed in the quest 
requirements, following the directions on page 27.
Frost cookie with green royal icing, using the ‘dam and MAKES  4-5 DOZEN ADORABLE GREAT OLD ONESWitness the impressive progress of your baking powers 
in this next endeavor, adventurer. Harness the power 
of the mighty Cthulhu – the very sound of his wing flap 
is enough to drive fear into the heart of any man – and 
tear him down until he is no more than just the cutesiest, 
wootsiest, itty-bitty wittle Elder God there ever was! 
Who’s a good creature of eternity? You are! Youuu 
aaaare! <Insert smoochie noises here.> CTHULHU COOKIESSQUIRE    114flood’ cookie frosting technique from page 36, (Figures 3 and 4).  Complete with 
remaining cookies and allow to dry completely, at least one hour.
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Tint remaining green icing with a bit more black, then pipe outlined Cthulhu 
shape, adding two feet, two wings, and three dangly tentacles (Figures 5, 6 and 
7). Using either the red frosting in a piping bag fitted with a #1 tip or the red 
decorating gel, make two dots for eyes that stare into your soul (Figure 8).  
(Figure  5) (Figure 6)
SQUIRE    115(Figure  7) (Figure 8)
Allow cookies to dry completely overnight, then store in a sealed container at 
room temperature between pieces of waxed paper. Cookies can also be frozen for 
up to one month. SQUIRE    116Quest Requirements:
HEALTH / MANA POTION
For Health Potion  
(Mediterranean Cosmo)
1 ounce blood orange liqueur
1 ounce vodka
2 ounces cranberry juice
½ ounce lime juice
1 slice blood orange (optional)
For Mana Potion (Blue Lagoon)
1 ounce vodka
1 ounce blue curacao liqueur
2 ½ ounces lemonade
Blueberries (optional)
Ice
Cocktail shaker (or large mason jar  
or container for mixing)
Small mason jars (one for each at tendee)
Health and Mana StickersMAKES  1 HP REFILL AND 1 MP REFILL
Health:  Shake blood orange liqueur, vodka, cranberry 
juice, and lime juice with ice in a cocktail shaker. Strain into 
a mason jar or other decorative glass, decorated with a 
printed Health sticker. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to print 
stickers.) Garnish with a slice of blood orange if desired.
Mana:  Pour vodka and curacao over ice in a mason jar 
or other decorative glass decorated with a printed Mana 
sticker. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to print stickers.) Fill with 
lemonade, drop in some blueberries if desired, and serve.
Store in the fridge until your adventuring party is running 
low on HP / MP mid-campaign and keep the party going! 
For a non-alcoholic boost:
Use soda water, lemonade, and two teaspoons berry 
blue Jello powder for your Mana potion, and soda water, 
cranberry juice, and two teaspoons cherry Jello powder for 
the health potion. (Use more or less jello powder to taste.)You must be feeling pretty drained by now, adventurer – 
time to replenish those health and mana stores so you’re 
in top fighting shape. Your party attendees will thank you 
for the top-up when the orcs start showing up with kegs 
full of mead and hearts full of fury. Orcs are hard to keep 
up with once they start drinking.119
LEVEL TWO
“Grinding your skills in the kitchen for maximum XP!”KNIGHT    120
Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:
Miss a spot at the base 
of the frosting that didn’t get  
coated with chocolate? Use a 
toothpick dipped in chocolate  
to touch up any gaps.Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe  
(see page 44)
7-Minute Floofy Frosting recipe  
(see page 68)
1 bag semi-sweet chocolate chips 
(minis melt faster!)
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2-inch ball chocolate fondant
1-inch ball vanilla fondant
Black gel food coloring
Gold sugar pearls
Piping bag fitted w ith  
medium round tip
Plastic microwavable cup or bowl, 
deep enough for dipping
Mesh strainer
Cupcake liners 
(brown recommended)
Plastic gloves (not silicone!)MAKES  30-32 POOPCAKES
Create fondant flies:
Don your fancy plastic gloves and add black gel dye to 
chocolate fondant with a toothpick. Mix until combined, 
adding more black dye as required.
Create a small black bean shape with fondant (Figure 1),  and 
press two gold sugar pearls into fondant at one end for eyes 
(Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Roll two small balls of white fondant, each one about one-
quarter the size of the body, and press into a mesh strainer 
to make a wing pattern and flatten out the ball (Figures 3 and 4).Not all adventuring is fun and games, you know. It’s not 
all princesses in high towers with abnormally long hair, 
and treasure rooms overflowing with more crowns and 
chalices then one could ever need in a lifetime. Some of 
it’s hard and dirty – throwing you face-first into a pit of 
danger, knee deep in… well. You know. POOPCAKESKNIGHT    122(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Attach wings to the body with a tiny dot of water and a toothpick, and allow  
to dry completely (Figures 5 and 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the 7-Minute Floofy Frosting recipe 
(see page 66,) and fill a piping bag fitted with a medium round tip.KNIGHT    123Add chocolate chips and vegetable oil to a plastic microwavable cup or bowl deep 
enough for dipping, then microwave in 30 second intervals until melted, stirring 
after each interval (Figure 7).
When cupcakes are completely cool, frost with a big heaping mound of frosting 
about the same height as the cupcake, or even taller if you can (Figure 8).  Don’t frost 
it any taller than your cup of melted chocolate is deep, or you won’t be able to 
completely cover it with chocolate. (Follow the tall coil  technique from page 30.)
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Flip cupcake upside down (don’t worry, frosting won’t fall off – 7 Minute Floofy 
Frosting defies gravity), and submerge frosting in melted chocolate right up to 
where it hits the cupcake. Lift out of chocolate and set on a table right-side-up 
(Figure 8 and 9).
(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
Before the chocolate cools completely, press fondant fly into chocolate at the very 
top of the cupcake.Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    124
MAKES  22-25 TASTY TUBSMOVIE NIGHT CUPCAKES
It may look like an imp-sized tub of popcorn, but it’s 
actually a cupcake, covered in frosting and marshmallows, 
wearing a printable sleeve. Good thing, too – popcorn 
gives imps the toots.
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42.)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
large ice cream scoop or a spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until 
a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58), with one tablespoon of clear butter 
flavoring. The buttercream will already taste ‘buttery’ as 
referenced in the name, but the clear butter flavoring will 
add in a bit of that ‘fake movie theater butter’ taste.
Prepare the ‘popcorn’:
Take a single mini marshmallow, and with a pair of scissors, 
cut halfway down the marshmallow from the top.
Rotate the marshmallow and cut halfway down the 
marshmallow again, creating an X-shaped cut in the top 
(Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Foolproof Vanilla Cup cakes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe 
(see page 58)
1 tablespoon clear b utter flavoring 
(optional)
1 bag mini marshmallows
Powdered yellow food coloring
Movie Night Cupcake 
Liners template
Cupcake liners  
(any color will do as they will be 
covered; I like to use white.)
Piping bag with large 
round tip 
Scissors
A color printer and 13 pieces  
of cardstock
Stand or hand mixer
Large ice cream scoop or disher 
(optional)KNIGHT    126Now flip your marshmallow, and on a piece of waxed paper or other clean surface, 
smoosh that little fellah down with your finger. Smoosh down hard and wiggle it in 
little circles for about three seconds (Figure 3).
When flipped back over, your marshmallow will have the look of a piece of 
popcorn! You can mix it up a bit, cutting some marshmallows only once or into 
three sections instead of two, in order to make the popcorn look varied (Figure 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Continue until you have done so with the whole bag of mini marshmallows  
(or until you have about a third of a cup of marshmallows per cupcake baked.)
Now that you’ve got all your marshmallows smooshed and your cupcakes  
baked, it’s time to print out the cupcake wrappers. Visit books.geeksweets.net  
to print wrappers. 
Print as many copies of the template as you need onto some cardstock paper, then 
cut them out. It’s best to use a glossy paper, because the frosted cupcakes will touch 
the liner, and a non-glossy paper may develop grease stains from the buttercream.
Take one of your cupcakes and wrap the cupcake wrapper around it to see how 
big it should be. Stick the edge of the wrapper to itself using two-sided or regular 
clear tape. Use this one as a template for sizing the rest.
Pop your cupcakes into the wrappers. They should be nice and tight at the top so 
they don’t shift around in the wrapper when picked up. You may need to press the 
cupcake down into the wrapper a bit with the palm of your hand. (The bottom of 
your cupcake and the bottom of the liner don’t need to line up, so don’t squish it 
down too far.)
With your prepared buttercream, frost a flat top  using a large round tip (see page 
28 for frosting techniques). They will not need a large amount of frosting – just 
enough to hold the marshmallows in place on top.KNIGHT    127Press your prepared marshmallows into the frosting. They should be close enough 
together so you barely see the frosting underneath. After completely covering 
the top in marshmallows, smoosh them down with your palm so they make a nice, 
even mound on top of the cupcake.
Lastly, add the ‘butter’ by brushing on some yellow dye with a large, soft paintbrush 
- heavy in some areas, none in others, just like real movie theatre popcorn. 
Powdered food coloring can be a little more difficult to get ahold of if 
you’re not near a bakery supply store. It can be ordered online, but if 
you need a quick fix, you can thin out a little yellow gel food coloring 
with water and ‘dry brush’ yellow areas onto the marshmallows for 
a similar effect. In a pinch, yellow lemonade Kool-Aid could also 
be used, but it is not quite as vibrant and will taste of, well, yellow 
lemonade Kool-Aid .SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    128
No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe (see 
page 72) or Chocolate Sugar 
Cookie recipe (see page 74)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
Red and black gel food coloring
Web-Slinger Cookie Pop template
Lollipop sticks
1 piping bag filled with b lack royal 
icing, fitted with #1 tip
1 piping bag filled with w hite royal 
icing, fitted with #2 tip
1 piping bag filled with re d royal 
icing, fitted with #2 tip
Waxed paperPrepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe (or Chocolate Sugar 
Cookie recipe) to the point where dough is ready to roll out.
Roll out dough using instructions on page 34 and cut into 
3-inch rounds. You can use a round cookie cutter if you have 
it, or use the provided circle on the cookie pop template. 
(Visit books.geeksweets.net for template.)
Place circles on cookie sheet with enough room to set a 
lollipop stick next to them. You may only be able to fit 
four cookies on each cookie sheet. With the lollipop stick 
flat against the cookie sheet, slide it up into the cookie 
dough. You can press your hand down on the top of the 
cookie while pushing, to avoid breaking through the dough. 
Depending on how thick you rolled your cookie dough, you 
may see a ridge where the stick is sitting, which is A-OK.  
You won’t notice the ridge when the cookie is frosted.
Bake at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just beginning to 
turn brown around the edges.
While cookies are cooling, create spidey eyes out of 
royal icing, by making a Royal Icing Transfer! Fancy! 
Here’s how:
First, download and print a few copies of the spidey eyes 
template in black and white. (Visit books.geeksweets.net 
for template.) Lay out your printed templates with a piece 
of waxed paper overtop, waxy-side up. (There’s a side that’s 
less waxy – who knew?) Use tape to hold both in place. I 
like doing it on a plastic tray I “forever-borrowed” from a 
Harvey’s so I can easily rotate it as I work.
Next, outline the eyes in black with your itty bitty #1 tip. 
Once dry, fill in the white middles. Make a few more than 
you will need in case they break when lifting them off the 
waxed paper.MAKES  4-5 DOZEN POPS, DEPENDING ON SIZE“Spider-pop, Spider-pop, does whatever a Spider-pop 
does. Can it swing, from a web? No, it can’t, it’s a pop.”WEB-SLINGER COOKIE POPSKNIGHT    130Allow to dry completely before peeling away from waxed paper (Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Frost one cookie at a time with red royal icing, using the ‘dam and flood’ cookie 
frosting technique from page 36. While the icing is still wet, take a set of dried 
spidey eyes and place them onto your cookie. I like to hold the eye over the top  
of the cookie, get it into position, then just let go and let it drop into place  
(Figures 3 and 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Once they’re dry, you’re ready to pipe the webbing. Use your #1 black tip again – 
nothing bigger, or the lines will look too thick. I start with a ‘Y’ shape in the middle 
of his face and go from there (Figures 5 and 6).KNIGHT    131(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Allow cookies to dry overnight, then store in a sealed container at room 
temperature between pieces of waxed paper.
Be warned, adventurer – you’ll want to wait until the cookies are completely 
cooled before attempting to lift them off the cookie sheet using a cookie lifter. 
And don’t try to lift them up by the stick! It’s a foolish venture that will only end 
in tears. If you do end up losing one, cover the end of the lollipop stick in royal 
icing, set it back in the hole left in the cookie, then allow to dry completely. No 
one need ever know of your cookie pop breaking treachery.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    132
MAKES  30-32 SWEET AND SPICY CUPCAKES
Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe 
(see page 44)
Dark Chocolate Frosting recipe  
(see page 62)
1 teaspoon cinnamon
½ teaspoon cayenne pepper, or 
more to taste
1 cup white chocolate candy melts
Gold luster dust
White or gold nonpareils
Mayan alphabet template
Piping bag
Cupcake liners (orange or gold 
recommended)
Wax paper
Clean paintbrushPreheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Create the cupcake toppers:
Visit books.geeksweets.net and print a copy of the Mayan 
Alphabet Template. Tape to a table, then tape a piece of 
wax paper overtop of the template.
Add one cup of white chocolate candy melts to a piping 
bag with no tip and twist closed, sealing with an elastic. 
Place in microwave and heat briefly until just melted, about 
30 seconds to a minute.
Snip off the very tip of the piping bag and slowly trace the 
letters into the wax paper, using the printed template as a 
guide. Add nonpareils in a few areas before chocolate sets 
(Figure 1).  Work one symbol at a time, as the candy melts will 
start to set quickly at room temperature. 
Once hardened, brush the letters with the gold luster dust 
and a small paintbrush (Figure 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44). 
Once batter is complete, add in the cinnamon and cayenne Carry one of these around if you ever need it to swap it in 
for a golden idol in your classic Mayan temple booby-trap 
situation. And if the wall of spears gets you first, at least 
the sweet heat of this rich, flavorful cupcake will be the 
last flavor on your tongue.MAYAN CHOCOLATE CUPCAKESKNIGHT    134pepper. Make sure to mix well! No one wants to hit a pocket of pure cayenne 
pepper in their cupcake! 
Taste the batter to determine the level of heat. There should be a noticeable but 
faint ‘burn’ in your throat. Once baked, the spiciness level will actually decrease, 
so be brave, squire!  
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
While cupcakes are baking, prepare the Rich Dark Chocolate Frosting recipe 
(see page 62.)
When cupcakes are cool, frost a flat top  with large round tip (see page 28 for 
frosting techniques) and top with chocolate letter.
Feeling fearless, adventurer? Here’s a pro tip that will up your luster 
dust game: Set a pot of boiling water on the stove and bring to a 
low boil. Once set, take your sheet of dry candy melt letters and flip 
it upside down – don’t worry, your letters won’t fall off! Very quickly, 
wave it over the steam from the boiling water. The condensation it 
leaves on the letters will help the luster dust stick and appear even 
more opaque. Fancy!SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    135
Foolproof Vanilla Cupc akes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Zest of 2 oranges
Rose flavoring, or ½ cup rosewater
Pistachio flavoring
½ cup coarsely chopped pistachios
Honey
Pink gel food coloring
Blue and yellow gel food coloring  
(I like to use this instead of the 
pre-mixed green, in order to get 
something closer to a  
pistachio color.)
Piping bag with large round tip
Cupcake liners  
(pink recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 
42), adding orange zest and 15-20 drops of rose flavoring. 
Start low with the rose flavoring and taste-test as you add 
more, as too much can be overwhelming. However, keep in 
mind that the flavor will diminish slightly when baked.
Tint batter with pink gel food coloring by adding coloring 
to batter with a toothpick. (No double dipping!) Mix to 
incorporate color. A little goes a long way! A very light pink 
is what we’re working towards.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58) and add 15-20 drops of pistachio 
flavoring, mixing until combined. Add more flavoring to 
taste. Not pistachio-y enough for you? More flavoring drops!
Tint frosting with blue and yellow gel food coloring by 
adding coloring to frosting with a toothpick. Alternate 
between green and yellow, mixing to combine between 
each addition, until you reach a green close to what one 
might call ‘pistachio’.MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESYou’ve traversed the desert, scorching sands biting at 
your heels for hours, and have reached your destination. 
You pull back the flap on the tent you’re sure has to be 
a mirage, a mystic haze flowing out to reveal the master 
sorceress inside, levitating a few inches above the ground. 
On her hand is an oven mitt. You tell her you’re ready to 
feast on the ancient knowledge she is willing to impart. 
“Yes,” she says. “I can see you are starving for the truth. 
But first – dessert.” EAST MEETS ZEST CUPCAKESSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    136
KNIGHT    137Frost a flat top  on the cupcakes, using a piping bag fitted with a large round tip 
(see page 28 for frosting techniques), and top with chopped pistachios.
Drizzle a bit of honey onto the pistachios – not too much or it will pour off the 
cupcake. Not that that’s really a bad thing, you’ll just have sticky honey fingers 
when eating them. There are worse things to suffer in your quest for baking 
wizardry, adventurer. 
If you can’t find rose flavoring, take a peek at your local Middle Eastern 
market. You can also use rose water: Put one-half cup of rose water on the 
stove and bring to a boil. Continue to simmer until liquid becomes a thicker 
syrup, then add cooled syrup to batter to taste.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    138
MAKES  22-25 MAJESTIC BEASTS
Foolproof Vanilla Cupca kes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Disco Dust or non-toxic glitter
Silver luster dust
Rainbow chocolate chips (rainbow 
sprinkles can be substituted for 
rainbow chips)
4-inch ball of vanilla fondant
Gel food coloring (pink, orange, 
yellow, and green)
Flavoring oils (optional – I used 
strawberry, orange, lemon,  
and green apple)
4 piping bags, outfitted with large 
star tips (or the same one, cleaned 
between uses)
Cupcake liners (pink, orange, 
yellow, and green)
Stand or hand mixer
Toothpicks
Soft paintbrush
Large ice cream scoop or  
disher (optional)Create the unicorn ears: 
Split the 4-inch fondant ball in half and set aside half of the 
undyed fondant to make the unicorn horns.
Take the other half of the fondant ball and split into four 
equal parts. Wearing plastic (not silicone!) gloves to protect 
your fingers from the dye, tint each of the four portions 
using the instructions found on page 33, one portion pink, 
one orange, one yellow, and one green.
Shape six sets of ears in each color, making a 3D triangle 
shape that is concave on one side. Using the back end of a 
paintbrush will help to create the concave shape (Figure 1).
Remove a small bit of white from the undyed fondant ball 
and press into the concave depression to make the middle 
of the ears (Figure 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Create the unicorn horns:
Divide the remaining fondant into 24 equally sized balls. 
With each ball, create a long, tall cone around a toothpick, 
with some of the toothpick still sticking out of the bottom 
(Figure 3).  Every adventurer needs a steed, and now that you’ve 
reached the level of Knight, that steed should be the 
envy of all your peers – a rainbow colored unicorn! It’s 
the fantasy world’s equivalent of a Lamborghini, but with 
more glitter and filled with rainbow chocolate chips. UNICORN CUPCAKESKNIGHT    140Using a regular kitchen knife, the less sharp the better, roll the edge of the knife 
along the cone to create a groove in the horn, starting at the bottom and going all 
the way to the top (Figure 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Using a soft paintbrush, dust the horns with silver luster dust (Figure 5).  Follow 
instructions for using luster dust on page 39.
(Figure 5)
Set ears and horns aside and follow the remaining instructions below. 
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners, six of each color.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42). When batter is 
complete, stir in rainbow chocolate chips.KNIGHT    141Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58) 
with two tablespoons of vanilla flavoring, and separate into four equal parts. You 
can eyeball this, or use a kitchen scale to get more exact portions.
Tint each buttercream portion with gel food coloring (one pink, one orange, one 
yellow, and one green) by adding coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. (No 
double dipping!) Mix to incorporate color.
If desired, flavoring can be added to the buttercream and mixed until combined. I 
used strawberry in the pink frosting, orange oil in the orange frosting, lemon in the 
yellow frosting and green apple in the green frosting. Use 8-10 drops per portion, 
adding more flavoring to taste.
Frost cupcakes in a classic rosette , using a large star tip, six cupcakes in each 
color of frosting, (see page 28 for frosting techniques.) Sprinkle immediately with 
a light dusting of Disco Dust by dipping a large, soft-bristled paintbrush into the 
container, then tapping it lightly over top of the frosted cupcakes.
Top with ears in coordinating colors. Add the unicorn horn between the ears in the 
middle, toothpick-side down, slightly more toward the front of the cupcake.
When adding the rainbow chips to the batter, stir as quickly and as little as 
possible, as the dye on the outside of the chips will start to bleed into the 
batter – too much stirring and the color will blend together to an unappealing 
grey, as opposed to the bright rainbow bursts fitting of a fancy-pants unicorn.SKILL CHECK:SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    142
MAKES  22-25 TROOPS
Once you have begun the frosting 
process, try not to let the tip sit open 
to the air for very long, as it can 
clog. If it does begin to clog, use a 
toothpick to unclog. Try placing your 
piping bag into a drinking glass, tip 
down, with a moist paper towel at 
the bottom to help keep it clog-free!Foolproof Vanilla Cupca kes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Piping bag fitted with grass tip
Cupcake liners 
(camo print, black or green)
Mesh strainer or sifter
Plastic dollar-store army menPreheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe  
(see page 42).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58), sifting icing sugar before adding to 
the mixer bowl. This will help avoid any solid bits that could 
potentially clog your frosting tip – the grass tip is particularly 
prone to clogs. Use one full quarter cup of milk to make 
frosting thinner, which will also allow it to pipe easier 
through the tiny holes in the grass tip. Add two tablespoons 
of vanilla flavoring and mix until combined.
Tint buttercream with green gel food coloring by adding 
coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. (No double 
dipping!) Mix to incorporate color.
Frost cupcakes with grass tip (see page 31 for grass 
frosting technique ), and top each with a plastic army man.Sure, you’re handy with a sword by now, adventurer, but you 
never know when some weapons and combat skills might 
come in handy in the Fire Swamp (those rodents aren’t 
kidding around.) Gather the troops for a night of Call of 
Duty or Battlefront with cupcakes to match, and hone those 
FPS reflexes.GOT YOUR 6 CUPCAKESQuest Requirements:
KNIGHT    144
MAKES  40-50 UNDEAD HEADS ON STICKSCake Pops recipe using red velvet 
or vanilla cake mix 
(see page 52 for recipe  
and supplies)
1 bag green candy melts
1 handful white candy melts
1/3 cup red candy melts
2-inch ball white fondant
Black edible ink penPrepare cake pop mixture as detailed on page 52, and 
shape into misshapen balls to resemble bumpy, lumpy 
zombie heads (Figure 1).
Roll small balls of fondant in various sizes, enough for two 
for each pop, and flatten with fingertip (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Melt candy melts following melting directions in cake pop 
recipe, mixing green and white melts together to make 
a light ‘zombie green’ color. Dip pops as usual following 
directions on page 55, pressing eyes into pops while the 
candy is still wet (Figure 3).
Using a toothpick dipped in the remaining green candy 
melts, add dripping blobs and smears of extra melt to the 
faces so it looks like your zombies have been through a 
rough zombie time (Figure 4).  You’ve been fighting off the undead for hours and are now 
trapped inside a decrepit old house with nowhere left to 
run. Morale is low among your party, and tummies are 
moaning even louder than the horde just outside the walls. 
You have an idea and run to the kitchen, tearing through 
the pantry. “Cake mix? Check. Tub of frosting? Check…” 
Time to whip up a batch of zombie cake pops – turns out 
nothing scares off zombies quite like the sight of seeing 
their fellow zombie’s heads impaled on sticks. And bonus: 
red velvet is hella delicious.ZOMBIE CAKE POPSKNIGHT    146(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Draw on eyes and mouths with edible ink pen (Figure 5).  The more random the eye 
placement the better. You can also add different expressions with both ‘angry’ and 
‘sad’ eyebrows. 
Melt red candy melts and, using a toothpick, dab and drip on bits of red to 
resemble head wounds or bloody eyes and mouths (Figure 6).  
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Store cake pops for up to one week in a cool, dry place.Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    147
MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKESSTEAMPUNK LONDON  
FOG CUPCAKES
Foolproof Vanilla Cupca kes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
4 Earl Grey tea bags
1 cup 2% milk
2mm silver dragées
3-inch ball, vanilla fondant
Gold luster dust
Steampunk Cupcakes template
Lollipop stick or chopstick
Eyedropper
1 piping bag, fit ted with a  
large round tip
Cupcake liners (‘Wilt on Wave’ 
baking cups as pictured, or any 
black baking cup)Add milk and tea bags to a pot over medium heat. Allow 
to simmer until about a third of the milk has boiled off and 
the tea has steeped into the milk, making it a rich tan color 
(Figure 1).  Remove tea bags and set aside for later use.
Create fondant gears: 
Roll fondant out about one-eighth of an inch thick, then 
print and use Steampunk Cupcakes template, according to 
instructions on page 35. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to 
print template.)
Paint cogs on one side with gold luster dust according to 
instructions on page 39. Allow to dry (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out Armor feeling a little drab lately? Time to upgrade to the 
new (old?) style that everyone is rocking in town. Leather, 
lace, parasols, and gears galore – that’s the ticket, old 
chap! Now to get working on that moustache.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    148
KNIGHT    149clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 
58), with two teaspoons of vanilla flavoring and five tablespoons of Earl Grey tea 
infused milk. A skin may have formed on the surface of the milk – remove before 
adding milk to frosting. Taste frosting and add more milk to taste as needed, 
leaving at least a half cup for the next step.
Take lollipop stick or chopstick and make four holes in the top of the cupcakes 
(Figure 3).  Fill eyedropper with a tablespoon of Earl Grey tea infused milk and 
squeeze into two of the four holes, rotating cupcake as you squeeze the 
eyedropper so that all the milk doesn’t just pool in the bottom of the cupcake 
(Figure 4).  Refill eyedropper and repeat with remaining two holes.
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Frost a flat top  with buttercream using a large round tip (see page 28 for frosting 
techniques.) Sprinkle immediately with silver dragées. Do not allow frosting to sit 
for very long before sprinkling, or it will develop a crust and the dragées will just 
roll off the surface!
Add fondant gear to top of cupcake, gold side up. 
If you place the cogs flat on top of the cupcake, you will not have to 
wait as long for the fondant to dry as with other toppers that require 
hardening in order to not “flop over” when coming into contact with 
the moisture of the buttercream.SKILL CHECK:KNIGHT    150
Quest Requirements:Preheat oven to 400° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
In a large bowl, combine dry ingredients. 
Cut in one cup of the butter with two knives or with a pastry 
blender until they are combined and mixture resembles 
coarse oatmeal. 
Add the buttermilk and mix until just moistened.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
disher or spoon. Using the melted butter and a pastry brush 
(or even just your fingers), pat the top of the cupcakes with 
butter, then sprinkle on coarse sugar. (Regular sugar will also 
work, the final product will just have less of a ‘crunch’.)
Bake 20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted 
into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully 
remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
Make the chocolate-dipped strawberries:
Add chocolate candy melts to a plastic microwave-safe 
bowl or cup and microwave in 30 second intervals until just 
melted, stirring after each interval. It should be warm, but 
not burning hot.
Grab strawberry by the green end, and dip into melted 
chocolate, dipping about three-quarters of the strawberry
Using toothpicks or long BBQ skewers, poke strawberry close 
to its green stem, and sit upside down in styrofoam to dry 
(Figure 1).  (You can also sit the strawberry on some wax paper, 
which will give it a flat bottom with some pooled chocolate 
around it instead, (Figure 2), but they’ll still look fancy perched 
on top of the cupcake!)MAKES  18-20 MINI SHORTCAKESSweet, dainty, moist cakes with a stable whipped frosting 
and delicious strawberries. Fairies LOVE ‘em. Need 
to catch a fairy for divining treasure and general GPS 
purposes? Leave a dozen of these in your backyard under 
a big net and wait for the giggling, glowing winged 
masses to descend like adorable vultures.STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKES
4 cups flour
2 tablespoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup cold salted butter, 
cut into small cubes
¼ cup salted butter, melted 
2 cups buttermilk
Coarse sugar
20 large strawberries, washed, 
with the tops cut off
½ cup strawberry jam
For the Whipped Cream Frosting:
1 cup cream cheese (½ brick),  
at room temperature
¾ cup icing sugar
2 cups heavy / whipping  
cream (36%)
For the Chocolate-
DippedStrawberries:
20 large strawberries
1 cup chocolate candy melts
½ cup pink candy melts
1 piping bag fitted with large star tip
1 intact piping bag
Cupcake liners  
(pink or white recommended)
Pastry brush (optional)
Cupcake corer (optional)
Plastic microwavable cup  
or bowl, deep enough for  
dipping strawberries
Toothpicks or BBQ skewers (optional)
Piece of styrofoam to hold 
strawberries as they dry (optional)KNIGHT    152(Figure 1)
 (Figure 2)
Add one-half cup pink candy melts to a piping bag with no tip and twist closed, 
sealing with an elastic. Place in microwave and heat briefly until just melted, about 
30 seconds to a minute.
(Figure 3)
Snip off the very tippy-top of the piping bag 
– the tinier the opening the better! With the 
strawberry sitting on waxed paper, or else 
held by the skewer or toothpick over the 
waxed paper, drizzle the pink candy melt 
onto the strawberries with a quick back-and-
forth motion (Figure 3).
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a 
cupcake corer to remove a small amount of 
cake from the center of the cupcake. Feel 
free to nom immediately, or put in a ziplock 
bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See 
page 52).
Add a teaspoon of strawberry jam into the 
hole in the cupcake, then fill the rest of the hole with one of the non-chocolate-
dipped strawberries, pointy-side down. The sugar in the jam will help make 
the strawberry become juicy inside the cupcake, seeping into the surrounding 
shortcake for maximum tastiness!  
Make the whipped cream topping:
With a hand or stand mixer, beat the cream cheese and icing sugar together 
until smooth.  
Add one cup of the heavy cream, and beat until soft peaks form. KNIGHT    153Add the remaining cup of cream, and beat until stiff peaks form. (Stiff peaks are 
when you lift out the whisk attachment and the cream on the end of it comes to a 
point without folding over on itself.)
Transfer the mixture to the prepared piping bag with a large star tip, and frost 
cooled / filled cupcakes with a classic  or princess rosette , (see page 28 for 
frosting techniques).
Top each with a chocolate-dipped strawberry. If cupcakes will not be eaten that 
day, they should be stored overnight in the fridge in a sealed container. 
Buttermilk – I’ve poured a lot of it down the sink in my time as a baking 
wizard. Even with constant baking going on, few recipes call for it and I can 
only purchase it in a large format, so it sits in the fridge, dreaming of one 
day being pancakes or tasty fried chicken. But the day often comes that I’m 
instead left to deal with its perished, stinky remains. 
If you only need a small amount of buttermilk for one recipe, try this 
instead: Take one tablespoon of freshly squeezed lemon juice OR one 
tablespoon of white vinegar and add it to one cup of milk, stirring to 
combine. Let it sit for five minutes and BOOM – it’s curdled into buttermilk! 
Thanks, science! Use in place of buttermilk as recipe dictates.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    154
Create fondant Gallifreyan symbol toppers: 
Make toppers ahead of time, or even a day before as they 
will need time to dry before placing them on the cupcakes.
Roll out white vanilla fondant until about one-eighth of an 
inch thick, then print and use Gallifreyan Symbol template 
to create a fondat topper, according to instructions on page 
204. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to print template.) You can 
also use a round cookie cutter or the top of a glass that is 
close in size to the circle in the template. 
Place a printed, cut-out Gallifreyan symbol of your choice 
on top of one of the fondant circles, lining up the edges. 
Using a pen or pencil, trace the symbol onto the fondant 
by pressing just hard enough to make indentations in the 
fondant through the paper. (Be careful not to press so hard 
that you tear through the paper!)
Using a black edible ink pen, trace the indentations to 
create your Gallifreyan symbols (Figure 1).
(Figure 1)
MAKES  18-20 CUPCAKESGALLIFREYAN GALAXY BLACK  
BOTTOM CUPCAKES
Some say it’s a dead language - but we know better. 
Brush up on your skills and Gallifreyan penmanship in 
order to impress everyone’s favorite madman with a box.
For the Cream Cheese Mixture:
2 cups (1 8-ounce brick) cream 
cheese, room temperature
1 egg, lightly beaten
1/3 cup granulated sugar
One package of mini chocolate chips
For the Black Bottoms:
1 cup granulated sugar
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
¼ cup cocoa
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup water
½ cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
1 tablespoon vanilla
Gel food coloring 
(purple, teal and blue)
White sprinkles (nonpareils)
3-inch ball white fondant 
Black edible ink pen
Gallifreyan Symbol template
Waxed paper
Small paring knife or X-acto knife
4 piping bags, 3 intact,  
1 fitted with a large star tip
Cupcake liners (black recommended)KNIGHT    156Set aside and allow symbol toppers to harden.
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Mix room temperature cream cheese, lightly beaten egg, and one-third cup of 
sugar in a small bowl. Stir in chocolate chips and set aside.
Mix the remaining ingredients for the black bottoms together with a stand  
or hand mixer.
(Figure 2)
Fill cupcake liners one-third to one-half of 
the way to the top with the black bottom 
mixture using a disher or spoon. Drop a 
large spoonful of the cream cheese 
mixture on top of each cupcake until 
two-thirds full (Figure 2).
Bake 20-25 minutes until centers are set. 
Carefully remove from the cupcake pan 
and allow to come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the 
Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58) 
with one tablespoon of vanilla flavoring.
Divide the buttercream into three equal portions. You can use a kitchen scale if 
you have one, or just eyeball it. Dye one-third of the buttercream purple, one-third 
blue, and the last third teal. (Don’t have teal dye? You can use the blue with a hint 
of green for the same effect.)
Create a 3-color piping bag with the directions from page 31 (Figures 3 and 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
KNIGHT    157When cupcakes are cooled, frost a classic rosette  with the 3-color piping bag 
fitted with a large star tip. (See page 28 for frosting techniques.)
(Figure 5)
Immediately after frosting each cupcake, 
while the frosting is still wet, sprinkle with 
the white sprinkles to make the stars in 
the galaxy. Ooooo, pretty (Figure 5).  
Lastly, top with Gallifreyan symbol 
toppers. Note: toppers will begin to 
soften and wilt a couple of hours after 
adding to moist buttercream, so only add 
to top of cupcakes shortly before serving.
 Now have all your Time Lord buddies 
over for a big family reunion potluck! 
(What’s that you say? There’s only the 
one out there? ...oh. Well, they’ll keep in 
the freezer until Gallifrey surfaces again.)
Want to compose your own Gallifreyan love letters or Intergalactic Yelp 
reviews? Visit https://adrian17.github.io/Gallifreyan/ and use Adrian 
Wielgosik’s amazing Gallifreyan online translation device to write your own 
custom topper messages.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
KNIGHT    158
MAKES  22-25 QUANTUM TUNNELING HUBS
Foolproof Vanilla Cu pcakes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
1 tablespoon vanilla
Zest of 1 lemon
Zest of 2 limes
3-inch ball chocolate fondant
Gel food coloring 
(black, blue, orange)
Portal Cupcakes template
Cupcake liners
 (black recommended)
1 piping bag with large round tip
2 piping bags with 
medium star tips
X-acto knife
Waxed paperMake fondant “research participants” ahead of time, or 
even a day before, as they will need time to dry before 
placing them on the cupcakes.
Tint chocolate fondant black with gel food coloring and roll 
out until about one-eighth of an inch thick, then print and 
use Portal Cupcakes template, according to instructions on 
page 204. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to print template.)
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe to the point 
when batter is complete (see page 42), then divide the 
batter into two equal portions. 
Mix the zest of one lemon into one-half of the batter and 
use it to fill the orange liners. Mix the zest of two limes 
into the remaining batter and use it to fill the blue cupcake 
liners. Liners should be filled two-thirds of the way full using 
a disher or spoon.
Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted 
into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully 
remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to  
room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58) with one tablespoon of vanilla. Split the 
buttercream into three portions, with one portion being a bit 
larger the other two. 
Add the juice of one lemon to one of the smaller portions 
and dye with orange gel food coloring. Fill a piping bag 
outfitted with a medium star tip. If you’re looking to get experimental but you’ve misplaced 
your Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, you can 
still simulate the experiment by creating inter-spatial 
portals across the top of two cupcakes. These cupcakes 
are infused with a bright hit of citrus to help keep your 
subjects alert and in top puzzle-solving condition...and this 
experiment actually will end with cake! PORTAL CUPCAKESKNIGHT    160Add the juice of two limes to the other of the smaller portions and dye with blue 
gel food coloring. Fill a piping bag outfitted with a medium star tip.
Fill another piping bag with a large round tip with the final, uncolored larger 
portion of frosting.
Frost a flat top  on the cupcakes with the white buttercream first, just a thin layer, 
right to the edge of the cupcake (Figure 1).  See page 28 for frosting techniques.
Frost a round blue portal on the cupcakes in the blue liners, and an orange portal 
on the cupcakes in the orange liners (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Place your dudes into the cupcakes so that they appear to be jumping into an 
orange portal cupcake, then coming out of a blue portal cupcake. The template 
makes the torso a bit longer in order to have something to press down deep into 
the cupcake.
Now you’re thinking with portals!
The little fondant dudes will start to wilt after a couple of hours, 
perhaps buckling under the rigorous pressures of everyday laboratory 
life, or perhaps because they’re made out of sugar, so place them in 
the cupcakes right before serving to keep them perky and ready to 
go. If you have leftovers, you can pull them out of the cupcakes and 
place them on a sheet of waxed paper to firm them back up.SKILL CHECK:KNIGHT    161That’s another level of training down, adventurer! Congrats! 
Before you set your sights on slaying the dragons in the next 
level, it’s time for an interstellar vacay through the galaxy. And 
who better to adventure through the galaxy with than the very 
Guardians sworn to protect it. Sure, one’s a tree, the big guy 
never gets your jokes, and the little trash panda lookin’ one 
keeps giving you the stink eye, but otherwise, these guys seem 
swell and their party soundtrack is rad. WE ARE GROOT!
Visit books.geeksweets.net to print your own ‘Partyin’ in 
the Galaxy’ invites!PARTYIN’ IN THE GALAXYQuest Requirements:
KNIGHT    162
Melt milk chocolate chips and butter together in the 
microwave in 15 second bursts, stirring between each 
interval, until chips are melted and butter is incorporated.
Remove from microwave and stir in peanut butter.
Place cereal in a large bowl and pour chocolate peanut 
butter mixture over the top. Gently stir until cereal is 
completely coated on all sides (Figure 1).
Add chocolate covered cereal mixture to large freezer bag 
or tupperware along with icing sugar. Seal bag or attach lid 
and shake until mixture is completely covered, breaking up 
any large chunks as you go (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Once cooled, add in Reese’s Pieces and mini marshmallows  
and mix until combined. Add one cup to each medium-sized 
resealable bag.
Print as many Rocket Fuel printable tags as required. (Visit 
books.geeksweets.net for printables.) Fold over in the 
middle, and using a stapler, attach to the top of the bags.MAKES  12-14 CUPS / SERVINGSYou gotta fuel up to keep up. These Guardians know how to 
party! Grab a bag of Rocket Fuel and let the sugar rush get 
you through another round of “Oooga Chaka” hip shaking. 
“I can’t stop this feee-liiin’, deep insiiide of me…”ROCKET FUEL
9 cups Captain Crunch cereal
1 cup milk chocolate chips
4 tablespoons butter
½ cup smooth peanut butter
2 cups icing sugar
1 cup Reese’s Pieces
1 cup mini marshmallows
1 gallon-sized resealable freezer 
bag (or large tupperware with lid)
Medium resealable plastic bags
Rocket Fuel printable tagsQuest Requirements:
KNIGHT    164
Using a spoon or directly from the bottle, drizzle a few 
thin lines of chocolate syrup on the inside of four tall see-
through glasses. Don’t use too much, or you won’t be able 
to see the tasty goings-on inside the glasses.
Pour half a cup of chocolate milk into each glass. Add one 
cup of root beer (or enough to fill the glass just over halfway).
Add two scoops of chocolate ice cream and top with 
one scoop of mint chocolate ice cream. (Fill to top with 
additional root beer if glass is not full.)
Top with a heaping spiral of whipped cream and a mint sprig. 
The handsome one nudges your elbow and passes you a 
flask. You twist off the top and smell sweet vanilla over some 
kind of alcohol that makes your eyes water. “The big guy 
is going to start Karaoke soon.” he says. “You might need 
some of this before we begin. He’s big into Manilow.”
For a more adult version of this beverage, add two ounces 
of vanilla vodka when pouring in the root beer.MAKES  4 FLOATS“WE. ARE… ABOUT TO DRINK AN AMAZING 
ROOT BEER FLOAT!” GROOT BEER FLOAT
2 cups chocolate milk
4 cups root beer  
(or more, depending on glass size)
8 scoops chocolate ice cream
4 scoops mint chocolate ice cream
½ cup chocolate syrup /  
ice cream topping
Aerosol whipped cream
4 mint sprigs (optional)
4 large mugs or glasses, chilled
Green straws (optional)LEVEL THREE
“Epic recipes and skill checks for the most heroic of bakers.”Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    168
SKILL CHECK:
While you can eyeball your portions, 
you will have more uniform results 
using a kitchen scale to separate 
everything out. But don’t sweat it if 
you don’t have a scale – these are 
poops we’re talking about here.1 batch No-Fail Sugar Cookie 
recipe from page 72, made with 4 
½ cups of sugar instead of 5.
Wilton gel food coloring in  
rose, orange, golden yellow,  
teal, and violet  
¼ cup white (clear) corn syrup 
2 tablespoons Disco Dust  
(edible, non-toxic glitter)
Stand or hand mixer
Plastic or latex gloves
Kitchen scale
Cookie sheet
Drying rack
Large soft paintbrushPreheat oven to 350° F. 
Prepare one batch of the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe from 
page 72. Make sure to use 4 ½ cups of sugar instead of the 
5 cups the recipe calls for.
Once dough is complete, weigh entire batch on kitchen 
scale (Figure 1).  Divide that number by 5, and use kitchen 
scale to separate out into five balls of equal weight (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Wearing gloves to protect your hands from the dye, dye 
each ball into the five specified colors - rose, orange, 
golden yellow, teal, and violet (Figures 3 and 4).  These color 
names refer to specific Wilton branded gel food dyes to 
achieve the colors shown here, but feel free to mix your 
own, or even change up the colors to whatever you like! 
But do make sure you are using gel dyes, and not the liquid 
dyes you find at the supermarket. (To learn more about the 
differences in dyes, turn to page 19.)MAKES  16 LARGE POOPSThe majestic unicorn is an elusive beast, known for its 
beautiful silken mane, mighty opal horn, and of course, 
its delicious droppings! (Hey, don’t knock it ‘till you try it.) 
The best method is to corral one into your kitchen, feed it 
lots of cupcakes, then patiently wait for its glittery payload. 
Can’t find a unicorn in your neck of the woods, adventurer? 
Follow the instructions below to craft your very own 
“unicorn poops” and impress/gross out your friends!UNICORN POOP COOKIESDRAGON SLAYER    170(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
  
Separate out each dyed ball into 20 equal smaller balls, one color for each of the 
20 cookies, using the kitchen scale. (They will be in the ballpark of 0.75 / 20g per 
ball.) Leave them on a tray covered in plastic wrap while you create each cookie, 
otherwise they will develop a dry crust on the outside of the balls that will cause 
the cookies to crack.
Working with one ball of each color, roll balls into round sticks about 3.5 inches 
long (Figure 5).  Press the sticks together with rose, orange, and yellow on the 
bottom and teal and violet on top (Figure 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Starting at the middle and then rolling outwards to push out any air bubbles, 
begin rolling the sticks together with your fingers (Figure 7).  Continue rolling 
outwards until you have a roll that is 12-15 inches long with tapered ends. If you 
roll one end up while rolling the other one down, you will twist the dough into a 
swirl of color that will make a cookie that shows off all colors involved (Figure 8).DRAGON SLAYER    171(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Carefully lifting up the rainbow roll without breaking it, coil it on top of itself four 
to five times. Make it as tall as possible as it will flatten out when baked (Figures 
9 and 10).  Place a maximum of six cookies per cookie sheet, so they do not touch 
when they spread out. 
(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
Place cookie sheet in freezer for 15 minutes until cookie coils are firm and chilled 
through. (This will make it so they flatten more slowly during the baking process, 
which will help them hold more of their shape.)
Bake 22-25 minutes in preheated oven, or until edges of cookies begin to brown. 
(Do not undercook – cookies are quite thick and will likely need the full amount of 
time to begin to brown.)
While cookies are cooling, mix one-quarter cup of corn syrup with one-eighth of a 
cup warm water until combined. DRAGON SLAYER    172Remove cooled cookies from cookie sheet and place on waxed paper. (Don’t 
forget this step, as we’re about to get glittery, and it can get EVERYWHERE.)
Going one cookie at a time, use a paint or pastry brush to paint the surface of the 
cookie with the corn syrup mixture until glossy (Figure 11).
Using a large soft paintbrush, dip into the disco dust or non-toxic glitter and tap 
the brush over the cookie, raining glitter down onto the sticky surface (Figure 12).  
Just a small tap will do, a little goes a long way!
(Figure 11) (Figure 12)
Allow poops to dry, then place in a container between sheets of waxed paper. 
They can be stored in a cool dry place for up to a week, or in the freezer for up to 
two months. Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    173
Red Velvet Cupcak es recipe  
(see page 46)
Cream Cheese Frosting recipe  
(see page 64)
5-inch ball chocolate or  
black fondant
5-inch ball white (or red fondant 
with a small amount of white)
Red and black gel food coloring  
(if not using pre-dyed fondant)
Edible ink printer and frosting 
sheet (optional)
Heart Container template
Wax paper
Small paring or X-acto knife
Piping bag fitted with large star tip
Medium paintbrush
Cupcake liners (red recommended)Create heart container toppers: Make toppers ahead of 
time or even a day before, as they will need time to dry 
before placing them on the cupcakes.
If you have an edible ink printer, print the second page of 
the template out at 100% scale and store in a large plastic 
bag until ready to use. (Frosting sheets will dry out if left in 
the open air.)
Wearing gloves to protect your hands, dye chocolate 
fondant black and dye white fondant red, reserving a small 
amount of white. If you have fondant that is already dyed, 
skip ahead to the next step. (If you are using the edible ink 
printer method, only dye the black fondant.)
Roll each fondant color out until about one-eighth of an 
inch thick, then print and use the Heart container template, 
according to instructions on page 204 (Figures 1 and 2).  Visit 
books.geeksweets.net to print templates.
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Note:  If you are using an edible ink printer, you will only 
need to cut the largest heart template out of the black MAKES  22-24 HEART CONTAINER CUPCAKESToppers for these cupcakes can be made in two ways – 
using the Custom Edible Toppers technique outlined on 
page 204, or with a piece of special equipment, purchased 
from the secret baking wizardry corners of the internet –  
an edible ink printer.    IT’S DANGEROUS TO GO ALONE, 
TAKE THESE RED VELVET CUPCAKESSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    174
DRAGON SLAYER    175
fondant. If not, cut the large heart size in black, and the small heart size in red, as 
well as the small white square. 
If using edible ink printer, cut out hearts from frosting sheet with small scissors or an 
X-acto knife.
With a paintbrush or your finger, paint a small amount of water onto the surface 
of the black fondant piece. Attach edible ink printer heart and press down with 
paper towel, being careful not to smudge the ink. If not using printed hearts, 
instead attach red fondant heart and white highlight square. Allow toppers to dry 
completely overnight.
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners. Prepare the Red 
Velvet Cupcakes recipe (see page 46).
(Figure 3)
(Figure 4)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top 
with a disher or spoon. Bake 20 minutes, or until a 
wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the 
cupcake comes out clean. Carefully remove from the 
cupcake pan and allow to come to room 
temperature. While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the 
Cream Cheese Frosting recipe (see page 64). 
Fill piping bag and frost a classic rosette  onto 
cupcakes with large star tip, (see page 28 for frosting 
techniques). Top with Heart Container toppers. 
Note:  toppers will begin to soften and wilt a couple 
of hours after adding to moist buttercream, so only 
place on cupcakes shortly before serving.
Expansion Pack: Included in the template are two 
images to print and present with the cupcakes if you 
are giving them as a gift. Place the first image of the 
wizard on the outside of the box or tupperware, and 
the second image on the inside.
Interested in making your toppers using an edible ink printer, but don’t 
want to drop the gold on the required equipment? Try using that high-level 
charisma of yours to sweet-talk a grocery store bakery into printing a sheet 
for you. Most have one for making photo cakes, and some will let you print 
a sheet for a small fee – just bring the provided PDF heart template with you 
on a USB stick, and have them print the page of hearts.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    176
Foolproof Vanilla Cu pcakes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
Candy melts, ½ cup each color 
(pink, orange, yellow, blue)
Candy melts, 1 cup purple.
3-inch ball white fondant
Gel food coloring (no-taste red,  
pink, orange, yellow, teal, green, 
blue, and purple)
Blue edible ink pen
White star sprinkles
Vanilla flavoring
Assorted flavoring oils as desir ed  
(I used apple, lemon, grape, 
bubble gum, and tropical punch)
3 piping bags with large round tips 
1 piping bag with large star tip
10 intact piping bags with no 
tips cut off (for multicolor frosting 
technique and candy melts)
Cupcake liners (pink, orange, 
yellow, blue, and purple)
Stand or hand mixer
Tweezers (optional)Preheat oven to 350° F.
While oven is preheating, create the fondant toppers as 
shown below (Figures 1 through 6).  Fondant will need to be 
dyed as required using instructions found on page 33. 
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
MAKES  22-25 CUTIE CUPCAKESThis baking challenge will test your fondant shaping skills, 
requiring you to create intricate edible pieces of art to go 
on top of these multi-flavor, multi-color, multi-awesome 
delights, straight from Equestria. 
But it’s totes worth it, right, because ERMAGHERD, PONIES!CUTIE MARK CUPCAKESDRAGON SLAYER    178(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe to the point when batter is 
complete (see page 42) with two teaspoons vanilla flavoring.
Separate the batter out into six equal parts in separate bowls. I use a kitchen scale 
to do this accurately, but you can easily just eyeball it or use an ice cream scoop, 
disher, or spoon.
Dye and flavor the separated batter as follows:
 Ø One portion with orange dye and apple flavoring
 Ø One portion with yellow dye and lemon flavoring
 Ø One portion with purple dye and grape flavoring
 Ø  One portion with pink dye and bubble gum flavoring
 Ø  One portion with blue dye and tropical punch flavoring
 Ø  One portion left as is, with no dye and only the vanilla flavoring added 
when making the batter recipe
Use four of each color cupcake liner to line cupcake pans as follows:
 Ø 4 pink liners for the pink dyed batter
 Ø 4 orange liners for the orange dyed batter
 Ø 4 yellow liners for the yellow dyed batter
 Ø 4 blue liners for the blue dyed batter
 Ø 4 purple liners for the purple dyed batter 
 Ø 4 purple liners for the batter with no dye added
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon, according 
to the colors listed above. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into DRAGON SLAYER    179the center of a cupcake comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and 
allow to come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58), 
with two tablespoons of vanilla flavoring.
Separate the frosting out into six equal parts in separate bowls. (Again, use a 
kitchen scale for accuracy, or feel free to just eyeball it.)
Dye and flavor the separated frosting as follows:
 Ø One portion with yellow dye and apple flavoring
 Ø Three portions with pink dye and no flavoring
 Ø One portion with no dye and vanilla flavoring
 Ø  The last portion will be used to make the rainbow swirl frosting  
in the next step!
Make the rainbow piping bag:  Take the non-dyed portion from the last step and 
separate it out into five portions. Dye each portion as follows: 1 pink, 1 orange, 
1 yellow, 1 teal, and 1 purple. With these five portions, create a single multicolor 
piping bag by following the instructions on page 31.
Fill the remaining piping bags with other dyed frostings. All piping bags should 
have a large round tip, with the rainbow piping bag being the only one with a 
large star tip.
Frost cupcakes, (following the frosting techniques on page 28) as follows:
 Ø 4 pink liners with the pink batter – frost flat top  with pink frosting
 Ø 4 orange liners with the orange batter – frost flat top  with yellow frosting
 Ø 4 yellow liners with the yellow batter – frost flat top  with pink frosting
 Ø  4 blue liners with the blue batter – frost classic rosette  with rainbow 
piping bag
 Ø 4 purple liners with purple batter – frost flat top  with pink frosting
 Ø  4 purple liners with batter with no dye added - frost flat top  with frosting 
with no dye
Add each of the candy melt colors to the remaining intact piping bags as follows:
 Ø 1 bag pink, 1 bag orange, 1 bag yellow, 1 bag blue
 Ø  1 bag purple (this one is larger, as it will be used to melt chocolate over 8 
cupcakes, while the others will only melt chocolate over 4.)
Twist bags closed, sealing with an elastic. Place each in microwave and heat briefly 
until just melted, about 30 seconds to a minute. (Purple will take longer as it will 
be a bigger bag.) DRAGON SLAYER    180Cut one-quarter inch off the tip of each bag of melted candy melts. (You can sit them 
upside down in drinking glasses to stop the melted chocolate from oozing out!) 
Drizzle blobs of melted candy melt on top of each cupcake as noted in the color 
pairings below, using just enough so it still shows the frosting color under the candy 
melts and does not run down the side of the cupcake. 
Note:  As you pour the candy melt on each cupcake, add the corresponding 
fondant topper to each one before the candy melt dries, pressing down gently to 
embed the fondant pieces into the candy melt (Figures 7 to 12).  You can use a clean 
pair of tweezers to add the tiny elements, like the white star sprinkles.
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
DRAGON SLAYER    181(Figure 11) (Figure 12)
The color pairings are as follows:
 Ø  4 pink liners with pink batter and pink frosting – pink candy melt and 
balloon fondant pieces
 Ø  4 orange liners with orange batter and yellow frosting – orange candy 
melt with apple fondant pieces
 Ø  4 yellow liners with yellow batter and pink frosting – yellow candy melt 
with butterfly fondant pieces
 Ø  4 blue liners with blue batter and rainbow frosting – blue candy melt with 
lightning bolt fondant pieces
 Ø  4 purple liners with purple batter and pink frosting – purple candy melt 
with starburst fondant pieces and white star sprinkles
 Ø  4 purple liners with batter and frosting with no dye added – purple candy 
melt with blue star fondant pieces
Allow candy melt to fully dry before serving or storing cupcakes (or even letting 
them bump into each other!)
If you can’t track down all the baking cup colors recommended, no worries! 
You can just use white liners, and the color of the dye in the cupcake batter 
will show through once baked.SKILL CHECK:SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    182
Smaller candies and sprinkles work 
best on top of these cake pops, so 
raid your favorite candy store and 
use your imagination to recreate 
your favorite sushi roll flavors and 
ingredients. For these, I used orange 
candy-coated chocolate chips as 
fish roe, green shamrock sprinkles as 
lettuce, and green spider candies cut 
in half to serve as the avocado.Cake pop recipe (see page 52 for 
recipe and supplies)
1 package white chocolate  
candy melts
½ cup black candy melts
White jimmies (the tiny cylindrical 
kind of sprinkles)
Assorted sprinkles and candies  
resembling sushi roll insides
1 intact piping bag
Toothpicks
Tweezers (optional)Follow cake pop recipe from page 52, right up until the 
pops are ready to shape.
Roll an oval shape instead of a circle, then using a flat 
surface, flatten out the top and bottom of the ball until it 
resembles a sushi roll shape (Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Melt white candy melts and attach cake shape to the 
lollipop stick as directed in the cake pop recipe on page 55. 
Dip pop in melted white candy melts, and while the 
chocolate is still wet, hold over a large bowl and sprinkle 
handfuls of white sprinkles over the pop, letting the excess 
fall back into the bowl. Rotate pop as you are pouring to 
cover all sides (Figure 3).
Chocolate will harden fast, so only do one pop at a time. If 
you find a few gaps, use a toothpick to smear on additional 
melted chocolate and a pair of tweezers to fill in the gaps 
with the white sprinkles. You can also roll the pop in your 
hand to help distribute the sprinkles (Figure 4).MAKES  40-50 SUSHI ROLLS ON STICKSWhat’s better than a big plate of delicious sushi rolls? A 
big plate of sushi rolls that are actually made of cake and 
chocolate! Have sushi for dessert with these sneaky swap-
in sweets by following the directions below.SUSHI CAKE POPSDRAGON SLAYER    184(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
While sprinkled pops are drying, add one cup black candy melts to a piping bag 
with no tip and twist closed, sealing with an elastic. Place in microwave and heat 
briefly until just melted, about 30 seconds to a minute.
Snip off the tip of the piping bag and pipe a thin circle of black on the very top of 
the pop to represent the ring of seaweed in the sushi. Allow to dry (Figure 5).
Using an assortment of candies and sprinkles, “fill” your sushi roll inside the black 
circle. Use a toothpick dipped in melted white candy melt and tweezers to help 
attach items (Figure 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    185
Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe  
(see page 44)
Dark Chocolate Frosting recipe  
(see page 62)
2 cups white chocolate candy melts
Gold luster dust
Gold food color spray
3-inch ball vanilla fondant
Green gel food coloring
Gold dragées
For Chocolate Mousse Filling:
3.5 oz (100g) bittersweet 
chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
Skull chocolate mold
1 piping bag fitted with a medi um 
star tip, 2 piping bags with  
tips still intact
Cupcake liners (brown or  
gold recommended)
Double boiler, or a mixer bowl set 
over a pan of simmering water
Clean, soft-bristled paintbrush
Small rolling pin
Cupcake corer (optional)
Chocolate handling gloves 
(optional, but recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Create the chocolate mousse filling:
In a small heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering 
water, heat one-quarter cup of the cream, stirring often,  
until steaming.
Remove bowl from pan and stir in chocolate until melted and 
smooth. (You can reheat it over the pan of hot water if the 
chocolate doesn’t all melt – but be careful not to overheat!)
In a chilled bowl of an electric mixer, whip remaining cream 
until soft peaks form. Slowly add in sugar and vanilla extract 
until stiff peaks have just begun to form. (Stiff peaks are 
when you lift out the whisk attachment and the cream on the 
end of it comes to a point without folding over on itself.)
Fold one-quarter of the whipped cream into the cooled 
chocolate mixture, then fold that mixture back into the 
remaining whipped cream, stirring just until incorporated.
Add the mousse mixture to the two piping bags with the 
tips still attached and refrigerate for at least two hours.
Create the white chocolate skulls:
Add one cup white chocolate candy melts to a piping bag 
with no tip and twist closed, sealing with an elastic. Place 
in microwave and heat briefly until just melted, about 30 
seconds to a minute.MAKES  30-32 DEADLY DELISH CUPCAKESMoist Devil’s Food Chocolate cake, filled with sinful 
chocolate mousse, topped with dark chocolate frosting 
and a solid white chocolate skull and roses – truly a killer 
combo for chocolate lovers.
Having won the Ottawa Capital Cupcake Camp 2010 
and featured in SKULL STYLE: Skulls in Contemporary 
Art and Design by Patrice Farameh in 2011, this cupcake 
has a pedigree and is not afraid to flaunt it. Bring this 
beauty out at your next RPG night to set the tone for a 
macabre tale.DEATH BY CHOCOLATE CUPCAKESDRAGON SLAYER    186
DRAGON SLAYER    187
Snip off the very tip of the piping bag and pipe the chocolate into skull chocolate 
mold until level (Figure 1).  Tap chocolate mold on a flat countertop to bring any 
bubbles to the surface.
Place full skull mold into the fridge on a level surface until set, 15 to 20 minutes. 
Remove from fridge and tap upside down on a countertop to release molded 
chocolate skull halves (Figure 2).  
Pipe a small amount of the white chocolate between the two halves and quickly 
press them together (Figure 3).  Wipe off any extra chocolate that oozes out the 
sides with a paper towel and use the excess chocolate to fill any gaps there may 
be between the two halves (Figure 4).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Put completed skulls back in the fridge for 10-15 minutes, then take them out and 
bring back to room temperature. As the chocolate cools, it will develop a thin DRAGON SLAYER    188layer of condensation on the surface. When it does, brush skulls with gold luster 
dust using a soft-bristled paintbrush. You can wear chocolate handling gloves to 
minimize the number of fingerprints you leave on the chocolate (Figures 5 and 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Create the fondant roses:
Roll a small piece of vanilla fondant into a long oval, and roll up, pinching together 
at the middle to create two rose shapes (Figures 7, 8 and 9).  Brush with luster dust 
(Figure 10).  Create enough roses so you have three for each cupcake.
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
DRAGON SLAYER    189(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
Dye a small amount of fondant green following instructions on page 33, and shape 
two leaves for each cupcake by rolling out a small oval with pointed ends, pinching 
it in the middle, then cutting it in half with a knife (Figure 11).
Connect three roses and two leaves together with a tiny amount of water. Brush 
roses with gold luster dust and set aside to dry (Figure 12).
(Figure 11) (Figure 12)
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
15-20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.DRAGON SLAYER    190When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer to remove a small 
amount of cake from the center of the cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or 
put in a ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Remove piping bags with chocolate mousse from fridge and cut off tips. Pipe 
mousse into holes created in cupcakes. 
Prepare the Rich Dark Chocolate Frosting recipe (see page 62).
The next steps will need to be done quickly, one cupcake at a time, as the frosting 
will begin to set, making it difficult to add the toppers.
Frost a flat rosette  with a piping bag fitted with a medium star tip. (See page 28 
for frosting techniques.)
Spray with gold food color spray. Spraying a light dusting at a low angle while 
rotating the cupcake will give a nice “gilded edge” effect.
Top with white chocolate skull, roses and a few gold dragées. (If frosting has 
started to harden, pop the cupcake in the microwave for a few seconds to re-
soften it.)
This recipe uses an eggless version of classic chocolate mousse, but 
feel free to use your own recipe or the “ain’t nobody got time for that” 
option of boxed chocolate mousse from the grocery store. Because of the 
mousse inside the cupcakes – it is perishable, and they should be stored 
in tupperware in the fridge until ready to eat. Allow to come to room 
temperature 30 minutes to an hour before serving. SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    191
1 bag dark or milk chocolate 
candy melts
Gold luster dust
Han Solo ‘Frozen in Carbonite’ 
food-safe silicone ice cube tray
Small plastic microwavable 
cup or bowl
Small paintbrush
Large soft paintbrush
Plastic bags (optional)
Frozen in Carbon-bite bag 
toppers (optional)
For Mix-ins:
Salted Caramel Pretzel (Skor bits, 
chopped pretzels and sea salt)
PB & Banana  
(Chopped banana chips and 
chopped peanut butter cups)
Mr. Munchy (Rice Krispies)
Cranberry Almond (Chopp ed 
Craisins and chopped almonds)
Cashew Coconut  
(Chopped cashews and shredded 
sweetened coconut)Prepare any “mix-in” ingredients in advance. (Chop nuts, 
break up pretzels, etc.) Use any of the flavor ideas listed, or 
come up with your own awesome flavor combinations!
Add one cup candy melts to a plastic microwave-safe bowl 
or cup and microwave in 30 second intervals until just 
melted, stirring after each interval; it should be warm, but 
not burning hot.
Make sure silicone mold is completely clean and dry.
Using a small paintbrush dipped in melted candy melts, 
thickly paint in face, hands, and feet of silicone mold, making 
sure to get all the way into the tiny details with no air bubbles 
(Figure 1).  Do this quickly, before the candy melt begins to dry. 
Pour chocolate from the bowl into the candy mold, filling it 
three-quarters of the way to the top (Figure 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Carefully lift up the filled tray, and while keeping it level, tap 
on a flat surface to allow chocolate to settle and make any 
air bubbles rise to the top. Continue to work quickly so the 
chocolate does not set.MAKES  6-7 CHOCOLATE BARSTrade up liquid carbonite for tasty chocolate filled with 
goodies, and recreate everyone’s favorite smuggler’s 
darkest day... then eat him!FROZEN IN CARBON-BITE  
CHOCOLATE BARSSKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    192
DRAGON SLAYER    193While the chocolate is still melted, press in any mix-ins until the chocolate level 
has reached the top of the tray. Pat down evenly with your palm. Be careful not to 
press down so deep that your mix-ins reach the bottom of the tray (Figures 3 and 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Place tray in freezer for at least 20 minutes until chocolate is completely hardened.
Once hardened, carefully remove by bending silicone mold to release, starting  
by pulling away the edges. If chocolate is completely hardened, the chocolate  
bar should come away easily. You can wear chocolate handling gloves or use a 
piece of paper towel to help minimize the amount of fingerprints on the surface of 
the chocolate.
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
While some condensation is still on the chilled chocolate bar, brush on a small 
amount of the gold luster dust, using a soft paintbrush (Figures 5 and 6).DRAGON SLAYER    194Repeat until you have used up all the remaining candy melts (or until you’ve got 
as many chocolate bars as you can handle). If your bowl of candy melts begins to 
harden on the edges, remelt in the microwave in 30 second bursts. 
 If packaging, allow chocolate to cool completely before adding to plastic bag. 
Print, cut, and fold bag topper and staple to top of plastic bag. Visit books.
geeksweets.net for printables. Using a marker, label the flavors on the back of the 
tag (Figures 7 and 8).
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Candy melts are my chocolate of choice for these bars, as they are simple to 
work with and will not produce the white ‘bloom’ on the surface that chocolate 
chips or improperly tempered chocolate will produce. They won’t, however, 
have the same ‘snap’ as tempered chocolate. I have not gone into detail on the 
process of tempering chocolate, but if this is a baking magic you have already 
mastered, then go ahead and use tempered chocolate instead of the candy 
melts for a more fancy-pants bar.SKILL CHECK:DRAGON SLAYER    195Quest Requirements:
Cupcakes can be made with fondant pieces if you’re feeling 
fancy, or just decorated with a drizzle of the butterscotch 
ice cream topping if you just want to get to shoving them in 
your face already. If making cupcakes with fondant toppings, 
prepare fondant elements as detailed below, letting pieces 
dry overnight. Scarves will need to stay soft in order to wrap 
around cupcake, so instead, place these inside a plastic bag 
with excess air removed until ready to use.
Dye half of the white fondant red and the other half yellow, 
wearing gloves to protect your hands from the dye. Set 
aside a small amount of red for the mouths, and a small 
amount of yellow for the lightning bolts.
Make scarves by rolling red and yellow tubes of fondant, 
setting them next to each other, and rolling out flat on a 
piece of waxed paper. Cut into striped strips (Figures 1, 2 and 3).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
MAKES  25-30 LITTLE WIZARDSYou don’t have to be “the boy who lived” to enjoy all the 
flavors of the wizarding world’s favorite beverage – just 
“the person who purchased this book.” Described as a 
sickly-sweet butterscotch cream soda, this now-famous 
beverage translates perfectly into cupcakes.
This recipe includes the step of “burning your butter”, 
which sounds like crazy talk, but is actually a great 
technique to use to give these cupcakes a unique flavor. 
So read the instructions below on how to brown your 
butter, then get all your quest items together, throw on 
your Gryffindor apron, and let’s make some magic!"YOU’RE A WIZARD, CUPCAKE!”
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons salted 
butter, browned (see instructions)
1 ¼ cups granulated sugar
1 cup brown sugar
3 cups cake flour (not all-purpose)
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
¾ teaspoon baking soda
2 ¼ teaspoons baking powder
1 ½ teaspoons salt
5 large whole eggs plus 3 egg 
yolks, room temperature
2 cups buttermilk, 
room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon butter flavoring
4-inch ball of vanilla fondant
2-inch ball of chocolate fondant
Gel food coloring in black , red,  
and yellow
CONTINUED ON PAGE 197 SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    196
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Cut fringe on either end of scarf and place in a plastic bag 
with the air removed so as not to dry out. 
Wearing gloves to protect your hands from the dye, tint 
chocolate fondant black and roll out until about one-eighth 
of an inch thick. Print and use Wizard Glasses template, 
according to instructions on page 204.  (Visit books.
geeksweets.net to print template.) Allow glasses to dry until 
firm before adding to cupcakes, overnight is best. 
With the remaining yellow fondant, roll out until one-
eighth of an inch thick. Print and use Wizard Lightning Bolt 
template following the same procedure as for the Wizard 
Glasses. Allow to dry completely as well.
Roll two small balls of the remaining black fondant for  
the eyes, and slightly larger balls for the mouths. Slightly 
flatten both, and cut red ball in half with X-acto knife to 
complete mouth.
 
Store all pieces in open air overnight (except scarves!)  
to dry out. 
Prepare the brown butter:  
Cut up your cold butter and place it in a cold (not 
preheated) saucepan. Simmer over medium heat. The 
mixture will melt, then start foaming. Keep the heat as low 
as possible while still maintaining it at a simmer until your 
kitchen smells like pancakes.
Once the foam has turned brown, take it off the heat and 
allow it to cool for 10 minutes. (Don’t let it go much longer 
or it can go from brown to black, and then it’s icky. You want 
a nice amber color.)For the Frosting:
Classic Buttercream recipe  
 (see page 58)
8 tablespoons butterscotch ice 
cream topping
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon cream soda fla voring or 
root beer flavoring
Wizard Glasses template
Piping bag with large star tip
Cupcake liners  
(gold or brown recommended)
Cupcake corer (optional)
X-acto knife
Waxed paper
Tweezers
DRAGON SLAYER    197Quest Requirements:DRAGON SLAYER    198Strain the butter by any effective means – with cheesecloth, coffee filter, or a fine mesh 
strainer into a bowl to remove any sediment. Let the butter solidify slightly before 
using. (This can take from a half hour to an hour depending on the temperature of 
your kitchen – don’t stick it in the fridge!)
More than you’ve ever wanted to know about browned butter:  Also called 
“beurre noisette,” browned butter is the act of burning the milk solids in the butter, 
giving it a really rich and distinctive flavor. It’s great in a lot of recipes, but I love it in 
cupcakes. Try it in place of oil in your next cake mix, or in some mashed potatoes.
Once butter has solidified but is still soft to the touch, preheat your oven to 350° F.
With your mixer on medium-high speed, cream browned butter and both types of 
sugar until pale and fluffy, about five minutes. 
While butter and sugar is creaming, sift together both flours, baking soda, baking 
powder, cinnamon and salt in a large bowl.
Reduce speed to low and add whole eggs one at a time, beating until each is 
incorporated and scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add yolks, and beat 
until thoroughly combined. Beat in vanilla and butter flavoring.
Add flour mixture in three batches, alternating with two additions of buttermilk 
and beating until just combined after each.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
16-18 minutes until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
While your cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 
58). When complete, mix in butterscotch ice cream topping and cream soda or 
root beer flavoring to taste.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer to remove a small 
amount of cake from the center of the cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or 
put in a ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52).
Using a spoon, fill holes in cupcakes with a dollop of butterscotch ice cream topping. 
Cupcakes can be frosted in a tall coil  with a medium round tip, then drizzled with 
the butterscotch ice cream topping, OR if you’ve made the fondant pieces to 
resemble everyone’s favorite lightning-scarred boy-wizard, frost cupcakes in a classic 
rosette with large star tip instead. (See page 28 for frosting techniques.) 
Wrap scarf around base of frosting and dab with a dot of water to secure the scarf 
to itself. Add glasses, pressing into frosting to secure, then add eyes, mouth, and 
lightning bolt with a pair of tweezers to complete the face (Figures 5 and 6).   DRAGON SLAYER    199(Figure 5 ) (Figure 6)
The frosting is where the hints of soda come in. Addition of actual cream 
soda in either the cupcakes or the frosting is not noticeable. You can’t add 
enough for the flavor to be fully present without watering down the whole 
works. That’s where the magic of science comes in: Accio cream soda 
flavoring! It is available online from Amazon.com and is great for all kinds 
of bakesperimentation. If you can’t find the cream soda flavoring, root beer 
flavoring will also work in a pinch with some added vanilla.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    200
No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe  
(see page 72)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
Gel food coloring 
(black and no-taste red)
2-inch ball of white fondant
For Chocolate Ganache
8.8 oz (250g) heavy cream
7 oz (200g) bittersweet chocolat e, 
chopped into small pieces
1.2 oz (35g) salted butter at  
room temperature
Merc in your Mouth template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto knife or sharp  
paring knife
1 piping bag fitted with a #3  tip, 
filled with red royal icing
1 piping bag fitted wit h  
medium round tipMAKES  2-3 DOZEN COOKIE SANDWICHES
Prepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe as directed on 
page 72 to the point when dough is complete. Chill.
Divide prepared chilled dough into two equal parts. With 
the first half, cut intact circles using the “Circle #1” shape 
from the Merc in your Mouth Cookie template and the 
cookie dough rolling / cutting instructions from page 35. 
(Visit books.geeksweets.net to print template.) Alternately, 
use a large round cookie cutter if you have one.
Cut the other half of the dough into the same large circle 
shapes. Using an X-acto knife and the “Circle #2” shape 
from the template, cut out the eyeholes. Alternately, you 
can use a smaller round cookie cutter to cut out the middle, 
then slice off the right and left sides of the smaller circle 
and add the line back to the middle of the large circle. This 
will create what can only be called a “Ghostbusters logo” 
shaped cookie (Figures 1 and 2).  
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges. Carefully 
remove from baking sheet and allow to cool completely.  
(Be gentle!)This antihero may be a bad influence on you, adventurer. 
I don’t want you hanging out with him anymore. And no 
sleeping over at his place when his parents aren’t home. 
No matter how good the breakfast chimichangas are.MERC IN YOUR MOUTH COOKIESDRAGON SLAYER    202While cookies are cooling, prepare Royal Icing recipe from page 70 and dye bright 
red with no-taste red. (It will take quite a large amount of dye to get to a bright, 
strong red color, as opposed to how much it takes with most gel dye colors.) Fill 
piping bags as listed in the quest requirements, following the directions on page 
27, and store in a sealed container, or a bowl covered with a wet cloth.
Lay down a base of waxed paper, then sit one of the cookies with the bar down 
the middle on top of a cookie cutter or drying rack. Coat the surface of the cookie 
with the red frosting by using a back and forth motion while squeezing the icing 
from the bag (Figure 3).  Allow the icing to drip down all sides of the cookie so it is 
completely covered (Figure 4).  Use a knife to remove any errant drips that do not fall 
off the cookie. Excess red icing can be scooped up off the waxed paper back into 
the piping bag as needed between cookies. Complete with remaining cookies and 
allow to dry completely, for at least an hour.
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
While cookies are drying, make the chocolate ganache: Use a kitchen scale to 
measure all ganache ingredients out in grams. Chop chocolate into very small 
pieces – try not to leave any large chunks! You can use a food processor if you 
have one. Set aside in a large bowl.
Boil cream in a heavy saucepan on the stove top. Allow to reach a boil for just a 
few seconds, then remove. Pour warmed cream onto chopped chocolate and let 
sit for two minutes. Blend with immersion blender, or whisk by hand until smooth. 
Once combined, add butter and whisk until smooth.
Cool ganache in the fridge until it has a thicker consistency that’s good for piping 
from a piping bag. (Think ‘room temperature butter’.) Check / stir every 10 minutes, 
as it can go from ‘perfect consistency’ to ‘aww dang’ quite quickly. If it does get too 
firm, allow the bowl to sit out at room temperature until it warms up a bit.
Dye completed ganache black by mixing in a small amount of black gel food dye – 
you’ll only need a tiny bit.DRAGON SLAYER    203Fill a piping bag fitted with a medium round tip with ganache, and pipe onto the 
“bottom” of the non-frosted cookies. (By “bottom” I mean the side that was face 
down on the cookie sheet when baking.) Starting at the outside edge, pipe a good 
layer of ganache in a swirl until you hit the middle of the cookie.
Take the dried, frosted red top of the cookie and sandwich the two sides together so 
there is ganache in between them .
Make the eyes: Roll fondant out on a piece of waxed paper to a thickness of 
about one-eighth of an inch, and cut eyes from the Merc with a Mouth template 
according to instructions on page 35. You will need two eyes for each cookie 
(Figure 5).
Place eyes on top of cookie in the middle of the open sections and press down 
into ganache to hold in place (Figure 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Cookies should be stored in the fridge for up to one week. (Do not stack them on top 
of each other, as the ganache will remain creamy and can rub off on other cookies.)
Chocolate Ganache IS. THE. BOMB. Melted on ice cream, smooshed  
between cookies, whipped into buttercream – you name it, ganache tastes 
good on it. While it can be a tricky magic to master, once you get the hang of 
it, you won’t be able to stop making it. A common trip-up is leaving it in the 
fridge too long, which can make it too hard to pipe. If that happens, bring it  
to room temperature, or even melt it in the microwave slightly and start the 
fridge process again, this time watching it like a hawk or some other super-
attentive bird.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    204
CUSTOM EDIBLE TOPPERS
All right, Slayer of Dragons – you’ve done it. You’ve baked 
the cupcakes, crafted the cake pops, bested the cookies 
and saved a princess or two. Your baking prowess is now 
unmatched throughout the land, your mind is brimming 
with the profound principles of Magic Baking Dark Arts, 
and your hands are tainted by no-taste red gel dye and 
the blood of that one Orc Warrior King.
But this is it. Your greatest challenge yet. Custom 
Cupcake Toppers. The results are some awe-inspiring 
baked goods that people will come from far and wide to 
witness, crafted into the form of their favorite fandoms 
– made-to-order, and completely unique. Start with the 
provided templates, then let your imagination run wild!
Good luck, hero – we’re counting on you.  
Always begin your Custom Cupcake Toppers a day before, 
or even two if you can. They will require some time to dry 
out before assembling, and the drier they are, the longer 
they will stand up when placed on top of your cupcake. The 
moisture from the frosting will eventually cause the topper 
to start to wilt, so place your toppers on your cupcakes as 
close to when you are presenting or eating them as you can.
Choose your desired Custom Cupcake Topper template (or 
design your own!), and determine what colors of fondant 
you will need to create it. For this example, we will use the 
superhero symbol of everyone’s favorite caped-crusader / 
man-bat, so we will need yellow and black.
Dye fondant as required in amounts needed for the number 
of toppers you will be making. Remember, the fondant will 
be rolled out thin, so you may need less than you think. 
However, it’s best to err on the side of caution, adventurer, 
as it may be hard to remix a certain color to exactly the 
same shade, and any leftovers can be saved wrapped in 
plastic wrap in an airtight container. In this case, I will be 
dying half my fondant black and half my fondant yellow, as I 
need equal amounts of each.
Place a ball of fondant on a piece of waxed paper and roll 
out until very thin – about one-eighth of an inch. (It should 
not be so thin that it is see-through, but fondant is best 
eaten in smaller quantities. I personally like to use it like a Fondant (chocolate for brown or 
black, vanilla for all other colors.)
Gel food coloring
Solid vegetable shortening
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Plastic (not silicone!) gloves
Clean X-acto knife  or  
sharp paring knife 
Small detail paintbrush
Custom Cupcake To pper  
template of choice  
(visit books.geeksweets.net to for a 
selection of printable templates)DRAGON SLAYER    205
DRAGON SLAYER    206sugary ‘tortilla chip’ to scoop frosting into my mouth. Don’t judge, adventurer, I’m 
just being efficient.)
Roll out any other colors onto separate pieces of waxed paper and allow to dry to 
the touch on one side. This usually takes about an hour or so, depending on the 
humidity where you are.
Peel the fondant off the waxed paper and flip over, allowing the other side to dry 
as well, again for about another hour. (I did mention that you should make these 
ahead of time, right?)
While all this thrilling drying time is taking place, let’s prep the templates: Print 
your desired template in black and white on regular printer paper. The template 
will be separated out into all its required pieces with each piece marked with what 
color it should be. For my example, there is one oval marked “yellow”, and one 
bat shape marked “black.” Cut shapes out with scissors, being careful to stay 
within the lines.
Once fondant is dry on both sides, pick a color. (I will start with black.) Place a 
small dot of shortening on the back of the template piece. This will help the 
template stick to the fondant and not slide around while you are cutting it. Using 
an X-acto knife or sharp paring knife that also has a thin layer of shortening on it, 
carefully cut around the template. It takes a steady hand, but with some practice, 
you will get a nice crisp edge (Figures 2 and 3).
(Figure 2) (Figure 3)
 
Peel fondant piece off waxed paper and allow to dry overnight. If you are feeling 
thrifty, you can pop the leftover dried fondant into the microwave to soften, then 
re-knead into a soft ball. Store in plastic wrap in an airtight container until you 
need the color again in the future.
Finish cutting any remaining fondant sheets using the corresponding color DRAGON SLAYER    207template pieces. When all pieces are cut, allow to sit out overnight or for eight 
hours in a cool dry place. 
When all pieces are completely dry, begin assembling them to match their 
completed photo example. Use a small brush to brush backs with water and press 
pieces together until affixed. You can also use a tiny amount of corn syrup or 
honey to affix the pieces to each other if you have it (Figure 4).  
Allow assembled toppers to dry another hour or two before placing them on top 
of your baked item of choice (Figure 5).  If toppers are going on top of a cupcake, 
press them down into the frosting at an angle to hold them in place.
(Figure 4) (Figure 5)
Toppers can also be written on with edible ink markers, brushed with water 
followed by luster dust or disco dust / non-toxic glitter, or decorated with 
sprinkles. The sky’s the limit! Experiment with your favorite baking supplies and see 
what you can come up with.
Some people will tell you to use gum paste here as it will set harder and last 
longer before wilting on the cupcakes. Those people are Demogorgons 
in disguise, because eating gum paste is more unpleasant than licking a 
Tiefling’s undercarriage. Trust, adventurer, it is better to just limit the time 
the topper is on the cupcake by putting it on close to when they are going 
to be served than to subject your fellow adventurers to gum paste. Ugh.SKILL CHECK:DRAGON SLAYER    209
You’ve done it, Dragon Slayer – your training is complete. But it 
looks like you’ve got one more challenge before you can rest. If 
the whispers are to be believed, an icy undead army is headed 
our way and winter is upon us… so we better throw one last 
party before the final battle begins! 
Visit books.geeksweets.net to print your own ‘Party of 
Thrones’ invites!A PARTY OF THRONES
Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    210
Red Velvet Cupcake s recipe  
(see page 46)
Cream Cheese Frosting recipe  
(see page 64)
Caramel or Dulce de Leche  
ice cream topping
Graham Cracker crumbs  
(or crushed graham crackers)
1 can cherry pie filling
2 small tubes red decorating gel 
5-inch ball red fondant  
(pre-dyed recommended)
Black gel food coloring  
(and no-taste red if not using  
pre-dyed red fondant)
Cupcake corer (optional)
Piping bag fitted with large round tip
Medium soft paintbrush
Toothpicks
Cupcake liners (red recommended)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Create heart toppers:  These toppers do not need to be 
made too far ahead of time, as they will not need to dry 
before placing them on the cupcakes.
Wearing gloves to protect your hands, dye vanilla fondant 
with no-taste red dye until a dark red color is achieved. If you 
have fondant that is already dyed, skip ahead to the next 
step, you keener.
Separate red fondant out into balls about 1 ½ inches wide, 
creating one for each cupcake you’ll be baking. Shape balls 
into a cone shape with rounded edges (Figure 1).
Create shapes to attach to the heart shape (ventricles, tube 
thingies… you know, heart stuff). Attach with a dot of water 
(Figures 2 and 3).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
MAKES  22-24 CUPCAKESThe room is silent as you stand in the center of those you 
wish to rule, with their eyes narrowed in distrust. Hold 
your horse heart cupcake aloft and proclaim your right 
to all in attendance – You are Daenerys Stormborn of the 
House Targaryen, First of Her Name, the Unburnt, Queen 
of the Andals and the First Men, Khaleesi of the Great 
Grass Sea. Eater of cupcakes! Om nom nom nooommm!DOTHRAKI HORSE HEART CUPCAKES
DRAGON SLAYER    212(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
With a toothpick, trace veins into heart shape, making sure they are deep so that 
they will show through the decorating gel that we’ll be adding in a later step 
(Figure 4).  Set aside.
Prepare the Red Velvet Cupcakes recipe (see page 46).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a disher or spoon. Bake 
20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake 
comes out clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to come to 
room temperature.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer to remove a small 
amount of cake from the center of the cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or 
put in a ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52.)
Using a spoon, fill the cupcakes with cherry pie filling, making sure to get a few 
cherries in each one for maximum ‘gore factor’ when the cupcake is bitten into.    
Prepare the Cream Cheese Frosting recipe (see page 64), mixing in 3-4 spoonfuls 
of the caramel ice cream topping. Taste test after mixing in the caramel and add 
more to taste. (If the topping is very thin, be careful not to add too much, as it will 
make the frosting too runny.)
Fill piping bag and frost cupcakes with a flat top, using a large round tip (Figure 2).  
See page 28 for frosting techniques. 
Pour about a cup of graham cracker crumbs into a small bowl, and press the top 
of the cupcake into them to cover the frosting. This will lay a ‘sandy’ base for the 
horse heart topper. Use the crushed up cookie crumbs to shape the frosting into a 
nice dome, dipping the sides first, then the top (Figures 6, 7 and 8).DRAGON SLAYER    213(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Using a medium-sized clean paintbrush (or your fingers!) smear some of the red 
gel onto the fondant hearts then sit them on top of the cupcake. Add a bit more 
gel dye so it drips down onto the ‘sand’. 
Better brush up on your Dothraki for your cupcake eating war-cry. 
“Khalakka dothrae mr’anha!”SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
DRAGON SLAYER    214
SKILL CHECK:
For an extra dramatic presentation, 
(though not as dramatic as Cersei 
Lannister’s Wildfire lightshow,) use 
a green glowstick bracelet as a stir 
stick. Also, the quinine in the tonic 
water will make the cocktail glow 
under black light - yay science!2 ounces Midori
1 ounce vodka
2 ounces pineapple juice
3 ounces tonic water
Ice
Green glowing ice cube or glow 
stick (optional)
Cocktail shaker (or large mason jar 
or container for mixing)Shake Midori, vodka, pineapple juice and tonic water  
with ice in a cocktail shaker. Strain into a chilled cocktail 
glass with optional glowing green ice cube or glow stick  
in the bottom.
For a non-alcoholic version, replace Vodka and Midori with 
a tablespoon of green lime jello powder dissolved in a 
small amount of warm water, and increase tonic water and 
pineapple juice amounts to taste. MAKES  1 VOLATILE COCKTAILIt may be the flammable result of years of malice, birthed 
into being by alchemists mad with power, but this potent 
green elixir sure packs a pleasing punch in a cocktail.WILDFIRE COCKTAILSEASONAL GOODIES
“Your quest is complete! Celebrate the season with a glass 
of mead and these legendary seasonal recipes.”Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    218UNVALENTINE COOKIES
Pshhht, Valentine’s Day. Who’s got time for that when 
there’s questing to be done? Share the “Meh” with 
these delish but dismissive sugar cookies, featuring the 
internet’s grumpiest of cats.
MAKES  4-5 DOZEN HEARTS AND PISSED OFF KITTIES
Prepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe from page 72,  
or the Chocolate Sugar Cookie recipe from page 74 if 
you’re feeling chocolatey, to the point when dough is 
ready to roll out.
Roll out dough and cut into cat and heart shapes from the 
Unvalentine Cookie template and the instructions on page 
35. (Visit books.geeksweets.net to print templates.)
Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges.
Prepare Royal Icing recipe from page 70 while cookies are 
cooling. Using the gel food coloring, make one-quarter cup 
of the icing black and another quarter cup teal for the eyes, 
then divide the remaining frosting into seven equal portions 
for the remaining colors (one portion will remain white). Fill 
piping bags as listed, following the directions on page 27.
While cookies are cooling, create grumpy eyes out of  
royal icing:
For the eyes, print the second page of the Unvalentine 
Cookie template in black and white. Lay out your printed 
templates with a piece of waxed paper over top, waxy side 
up. Use tape to hold both in place.
First outline the eyes in black with the #1 tip. Once dry, fill 
in the teal middles and add a single white sprinkle to the 
top left corner of the pupils. Make a few more than you will 
need in case they break when lifting them off the waxed 
paper. Allow to dry completely before peeling away from 
waxed paper (Figures 1 to 6).No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe  
(see page 72) or chocolate sugar 
cookie recipe (see page 74)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
Gel food coloring (black, brown, 
teal, pink, orange, green, purple, 
yellow, and red)
White sprinkles (nonpareils)
Unvalentine Cookie template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto knife or sharp  
paring knife
3 piping bags fitted with #1  tips in 
black, teal, and red
6 piping bags fitted with #2 t ips  
in white, pink, yellow, green, 
orange, and purple
Medium soft paintbrushFESTIVAL REVELLER    220(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
FESTIVAL REVELLER   221Frost heart cookies: Frost one cookie at a time with pink, yellow, green, orange, and 
purple royal icing, using the “dam and flood” frosting technique from page 36. Allow 
to dry completely, about one hour, or until a crust has formed on top of the royal icing.
Frost cat cookies: Frost one cookie at a time with white royal icing, using the “dam 
and flood” cookie frosting technique from page 36 Allow to dry completely; allow 
at least two hours for drying, as we will be painting on them with a paintbrush in 
the next steps.
Pipe words onto the heart cookies: Using the piping bag filled with red royal icing 
and fitted with a #1 tip, pipe words on the “conversation heart” cookies (Figures 7 
and 8). They can be as grumpy or as non-grumpy as you like!
(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Mix up the edible “watercolor”: Using a soft medium paintbrush and a small bowl 
or plate, mix up a small amount of the brown gel paste and water to create a 
watercolor for painting on the cat ears and whiskers. Mix up a second dot of brown 
with a little black in it to create a darker brown as well (Figures 9 and 10).
(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
FESTIVAL REVELLER    222Paint the ears and whiskers: using light strokes with a very small amount of the 
edible watercolor on your brush, paint the inside of the ears, and the whiskers 
behind where the eyes will be placed. Start in the middle of the cookie, and brush 
outward to the right and left sides, making two circles that join in the middle 
(Figure 11).  Using the darker color, outline the ears, and add a few strokes to the 
whiskers to add some texture (Figure 12).  Allow to dry. 
(Figure 11) (Figure 12)
Using a small dot of black royal icing, attach eyes. Pipe a pink triangle for nose and 
allow to dry. Once nose is dry, pipe upside down ‘U’ for mouth. 
Allow cookies to completely dry overnight, then store in a sealed container at 
room temperature between pieces of waxed paper. Cookies can also be frozen for 
up to one month.
What follows is a list of possible phrases for your Unvalentine cookies which 
will properly portray your overall disdain for the holiday and all the mushy 
whatnot for which it stands: NO, GRUMP , BOO!, U SUCK, BITE ME, MEH, 
DISLIKE, SWIPE LEFT, DON’T TEXT, BAH!, PASS and HARD NO. Try piping 
some test words onto a piece of paper first to get used to the space required 
before piping the words on your cookies. SKILL CHECK:FESTIVAL REVELLER    223Quest Requirements:
Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe 
(see page 44)
Classic Buttercream recipe  
(see page 58)
1 tablespoon vanilla
Gel food coloring (golden yellow)
Mini Cadbury Creme Eggs
For Creme Filling:
½ cup light corn syrup
¼ cup butter
1 teaspoon vanilla
¼ teaspoon salt
3 cups icing sugar, sifted
5 piping bags, 4 intact, one  fitted 
with a medium round tip
Cupcake liners  
(brown or black recommended)
Cupcake corer (optional)Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Create the creme filling: With a stand or hand mixer, 
mix together corn syrup, butter, vanilla, and salt in a large 
bowl. Add icing sugar, one cup at a time, mixing slowly to 
incorporate, then on medium-high speed until creamy.
Remove one-third of the creme filling mixture and place in 
a small bowl. Add in golden yellow food coloring in small 
amounts until mixture is a bright yellow color.
Add yellow-tinted creme filling to one piping bag, and 
the remaining white creme filling to another. Tie ends with 
elastics and set aside at room temperature (Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Prepare the Moist Chocolate Cupcake recipe (see page 44).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15-20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake. Cut the top off the removed bit of cupcake and MAKES  30-32 CUPCAKESA cupcake remake of the classic ooey, gooey Easter 
basket favorite, these are best served sliced down the 
middle to show off their impressive two-tone filling.CREME EGG CUPCAKES
SKILL CHECK:
To get the color of the inner creme 
egg and frosting right on the money 
for the classic Cadbury treat, use 
Wilton’s “golden yellow” gel food 
coloring. If all you have is regular 
yellow, mix a tiny amount of red in 
with it to achieve the warmer shade.FESTIVAL REVELLER    224
FESTIVAL REVELLER   225
reserve (Figures 3 and 4).  Feel free to nom bottom half immediately, or put in a 
ziplock bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52.)
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Time for some tasty creme egg filling! Cut the tips off both of your piping bags 
filled with creme filling. First, fill the hole in a cupcake two-thirds of the way 
full with the white creme filling (Figure 5).  Next, take the tip of the yellow piping 
bag and press it down into the middle of the white creme filling in the cupcake. 
Squeeze until the hole in the cupcake is completely full (Figure 6).  Re-cap with the 
reserved bit of cupcake from step 7.
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Prepare the Classic Buttercream recipe (see page 58), with one tablespoon 
of vanilla. Remove half of the buttercream from the mixing bowl. Dye the remaining 
buttercream yellow, and create a 2-color piping bag with the directions from page 33.
When cupcakes are cooled, frost a tall coil with 2-color buttercream using a medium 
round tip, (see page 28 for frosting techniques). Top with a mini Cadbury creme egg.Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    226No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe  
(see page 72)
3 tablespoons of your mom’s 
favorite tea, ground (Red Rose 
Orange Pekoe for mine!)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
Gel food coloring (brown for the 
tea and your choice of color for the 
china – I used magenta and teal)
Mother’s Day Tea Cookie template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto knife or sharp  
 paring knife
2 piping bags fitted with #1 t ips in 
white and light brown
1 piping bag fitted with a #2 tip in 
your chosen china color
Small soft paintbrushPrepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe from page 72, 
adding in the three tablespoons of your chosen tea, finely 
ground, to the dry ingredients, up to the point when dough 
is ready to roll out.
Roll out dough and cut into teapot and teacup shapes  
using Mother’s Day Tea Cookie template and the cookie 
dough rolling / cutting instructions from page 35. (Visit 
books.geeksweets.net to print template.) A cookie-cutter 
set can also be found listed in the Resources section of this 
book on page 259.
Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges. Carefully 
remove from baking sheet and allow to cool completely. 
Prepare Royal Icing recipe from page 70 while cookies are 
cooling. Reserve a half cup of frosting to stay white. Using a 
very tiny amount of brown gel food coloring, tint another half 
cup until it is the shade of a cup of tea. Lastly, using the gel 
food coloring of your choice, tint the remaining royal icing. 
Fill piping bags as listed in the Quest Requirements, following 
the directions on page 27 for how to fill a piping bag.
Frost cookies:  Frost one cookie at a time with royal icing in 
a color of your choice, using cookie frosting technique from 
page 36 (Figure 1). Remember to leave an opening in the 
teacup to fill with tea. Allow to dry completely, at least two 
hours, as we will be painting on them with a paintbrush in the 
next steps.
Once dry, “fill the teacup” with tea from your light brown 
tinted piping bag. Optionally, you can also pipe an outline 
on the teapot lids, spouts, and teacup handles as well as 
outlining the poured tea in the teacup (Figure 2).MAKES  4-5 DOZEN CUPS AND TEAPOTSYou may be ankle-deep in undead wurms, but you 
ALWAYS make time for your momma, adventurer.  
No exceptions.MOTHER’S DAY TEA COOKIESFESTIVAL REVELLER    228(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
One cookie at a time, pipe on the floral china pattern as shown in the template 
using the white royal icing. You can follow the pattern suggestion, or experiment 
with your own. Have elements of the pattern go off the edge of the cookie for a 
more ‘natural placement’ that looks as though it continues on the other side of the 
cookie (Figure 3).  Remember – only one cookie at a time! The icing will still need to 
be wet for the next step.
While the icing is still wet, use a small paintbrush to drag the line of frosting inward 
on the leaves and petals. (Figure 4). Use a light hand and work quickly so frosting 
does not dry out. Try to drag from the middle of the line down, not wipe away the 
line completely. Clean off your brush with a wet paper towel as you start to get a 
crusty build-up on your brush. Complete remaining cookies.
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Starting with the cookies that are now dry, pipe a thin white line up the middle of 
the leaves, and small dots where the middle of the flowers would be. Also pipe FESTIVAL REVELLER   229small dots wherever there is a logical gap in the pattern, or where the pattern is 
looking a little sparse (Figures 5 and 6).  
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Allow cookies to dry completely overnight, then store in a sealed container at 
room temperature between pieces of waxed paper. Cookies can also be frozen for 
up to one month. 
Tea can be ground in a variety of ways: with a coffee grinder, food 
processor, or a mortar and pestle, or else just chopped up finely with a 
knife. Depending on your variety of tea, it may already be fine enough as 
it is inside the tea bag. Generally we’re just looking to avoid any big “tea 
chunks” or full leaves when eating the cookies.SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    230½ cup finely chopped pecans
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 box yellow cake mix
1 cup canned pumpkin  
(not pumpkin pie mix)
½ cup water
1/3 cup vegetable oil
4 eggs
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice mix 
(or ½ teaspoon each cinnamon, 
ginger, nutmeg and allspice.)
For Whipped Cre am 
Cheese Frosting:
4 ounces cream cheese,  
room temperature
¾ cup icing sugar
2 cups heavy / whipping  
cream (36%)
Gold sparkling sugar sprinkles
QUEST REQUIREMENTS
CONTINUED ON PAGE 232MAKES  22-24 PUMPKIN PIES IN DISGUISE
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
With a stand or hand mixer, beat cake mix, canned pumpkin, 
water, oil, eggs, and pumpkin pie spices on low speed for 30 
seconds, then on medium speed for two minutes, scraping 
down the sides of the bowl occasionally with a spatula.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 20-25 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the pie crust fall 
leaf toppers:  Roll out pie crusts and cut 24 fall leaf shapes 
from it, using the Pumpkin Pie Cupcake template (Figures 1 
and 2).  Visit books.geeksweets.net to print template.
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Arrange leaves on a parchment or silicone-lined baking 
sheet. Using a pastry brush or your finger, brush each leaf 
with a light coating of milk, and sprinkle generously with 
sparkling sugar sprinkles, pressing down on sprinkles gently 
with the back of a glass to help embed them into the 
surface (Figures 3 and 4).  Bake until deep golden brown, 10 to 
15 minutes. Let cool completely.The big taste of pumpkin pie, transmogrified into cupcake 
form, complete with pie crust and whipping cream!PUMPKIN PIE CUPCAKESFESTIVAL REVELLER    232For Fall Leaf Toppers:
Rolled pie crust (store-bought, or 
homemade if you’re feeling fancy)
¼ cup milk
White sparkling sugar sprinkles
Pumpkin Pie Cupcake template
Small paring knife or X-acto knife
1 piping bag fitted  with 
large round tip
Cupcake liners  
(orange or brown recommended)(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
While leaves are cooling, prepare the Whipped Cream 
Cheese Frosting: With a stand or hand mixer, beat the 
cream cheese and icing sugar together until smooth. Add 
one cup of the cream and beat until soft peaks form. Add 
the remaining cup of cream, and beat until stiff peaks form. 
Stiff peaks are when you lift out the beater and the cream on 
the end of it comes to a point without folding over on itself. 
(It will take a while before it becomes stiff enough to pipe 
– a stand mixer with a whisk attachment is recommended, 
but a hand mixer and some of that strong-willed adventurer 
spirit should do the trick as well!) Transfer the mixture to a 
piping bag fitted with a large round tip.
Frost cupcakes with a flat top  (see page 28 for frosting 
techniques), and top with fall leaf toppers and a sprinkling 
of sparkling sugar sprinkles. Quest Requirements:Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    233MAKES  22-24 CUPCAKES
Make the sugar glass:  Combine water, light corn syrup, 
sugar, and cream of tartar in a large saucepan and bring to 
a boil on medium-low heat. Using a candy thermometer, 
continue to boil sugar syrup on medium low until temperature 
reaches 300° (or the “hard crack” stage), stirring constantly. 
The mixture will thicken as the water evaporates (Figure 1).
Patience is required here, adventurer, as it will take a good 
long time to get there, but once it reaches 300° (the ‘hard 
crack’ stage, just before the mixture starts to brown), quickly 
pour it onto a clean metal baking pan. Beware – pan will 
be very hot! Wearing oven mitts, quickly pick up pan and 
tilt from side to side until sugar has spread from corner to 
corner in a thin layer (Figure 2).  Set aside to cool completely. 
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Red Velvet Cupcakes recipe (see page 46).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with a 
disher or spoon. Bake 20 minutes, until a wooden toothpick Sharp! To avoid any trip-ups making the glass, it’s best to 
use a candy thermometer. The sugar should be cooked 
on low – cooking it too fast or too hot will cause it to 
caramelize too quickly. I start on low and ramp it up to 
nearly medium over the course of an hour, and my glass 
comes out nice and clear. It’s a time commitment, but you 
just can’t rush sugar, adventurer.BROKEN GLASS CUPCAKES
For Sugar Glass:
2 cups water
1 cup light (not golden) corn syrup
3 ½ cups granulated sugar
¼ teaspoon cream of tartar
Red Velvet Cupcak es recipe  
(see page 46)
Cream Cheese Frosting recipe  
(see page 64)
Red decorating gel
Clean baking sheet, 13” x 18” or 
close to that size
Piping bag fitted wi th large  
round tip
Cupcake liners (silver, black, or 
white recommended)FESTIVAL REVELLER    234
FESTIVAL REVELLER   235
inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out clean. Carefully remove from 
the cupcake pan and allow to come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Cream Cheese Frosting recipe 
(see page 64). 
Fill piping bag and frost a flat top on the cupcakes with large round tip (see page 
28 for frosting techniques).
Time for the best part – smashing! By now, Dragon Slayer, I estimate that you are an 
expert at smashing. Grab the sheet of cooled sugar glass, and using a meat mallet 
or battle axe, tap the surface of the glass until it shatters. Break it in about 4 places, 
evenly spaced (Figures 3 and 4).  Don’t go too crazy, or your pieces will be too tiny!
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Carefully pick shards of glass from the baking sheet and stick them into the 
cupcakes, deep enough so they will stay put. I like to put two or three pieces of 
varying sizes on top of each cupcake. Use the red decorating gel to pipe some 
blood drips where the glass pierces the frosting. One small tube will do about 24 
‘moderately bloodied’ cupcakes, so don’t use it all up at the beginning - you can 
always go back and add more blood as desired. 
Can’t get your hands on a candy thermometer? Then grab a glass of cold 
water and we’ll do it the old-fashioned way. Drop a little of the molten 
syrup from a spoon into the water and it should form hard, brittle threads 
that break when bent. This is the ‘hard crack’ stage. If the consistency is 
anything less rigid than that, for example, something resembling salt-
water taffy or nougat when squished between your fingers, then you’re 
not quite there yet.SKILL CHECK:FESTIVAL REVELLER    236Quest Requirements:
SKILL CHECK:Follow cake pop recipe from page 52, right up until the 
pops are ready to attach to sticks.
Place a cake ball on a flat surface. Using a single candy melt 
wafer, press an indentation into the cake ball, giving it one 
flat side. Once dipped, this is the spot where we will attach 
the “iris.” Repeat with all remaining cake balls (Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Melt white candy melts as directed in the cake pop recipe 
on page 52.  Instead of using a lollipop stick, dip the first 
half inch of a plastic fork into the melted candy melts and 
attach to the bottom of the eyeball shape by pushing pop 
halfway down onto the fork (Figures 3 and 4).  The bottom of 
the eyeball is the part that was sitting on the table in the last 
step, and the flat indentation made in the pop by the candy 
melt should be facing forward. MAKES  40-50 CREEPY PEEPERSThese gross, gory pops are popular around All Hallow’s 
Eve with the younglings. What is it with younglings and a 
fascination with disembodied parts? Little necromancers 
in the making, they are.EYEBALL CAKE POPS
The red gel will eventually start to 
solidify in a strange, gummy fashion, 
so it’s recommended that you put 
the gel on close to when you are 
serving these bad boys.Cake pop recipe (see page 52 
for recipe and supplies)
1 package white chocolate  
candy melts 
50 candy melts in green, blue, or 
red (or a combination of all three)
2 small tubes of red decorating gel 
White flat circular sprinkl es 
(optional)
Black edible ink pen
50 plastic forks
Styrofoam blockFESTIVAL REVELLER    238(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
While the pops are drying, take a paper towel and wipe off the surface of the 
candy melts you will be using as irises. They will usually have an uneven, waxy 
surface from bumping into each other in the bag, and a quick wipe-down will help 
even them out (Figures 5 and 6).
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Once all pops are on forks, it’s time to start dipping. If your bowl of white candy 
melts is starting to harden on the edges, re-melt in the microwave in 30 second 
intervals until thin enough for dipping.
Holding pop upside down, dip into candy melts until completely submerged. Be 
sure none of the cake ball is showing between the fork prongs, as we will need a 
tight seal of chocolate around the cake to avoid any oil seeping out of the pop. 
Tap fork on side of bowl to drip off excess chocolate (Figure 7).  While the chocolate 
is still wet, press a red, blue, or green “iris” into the flat indentation we left in the 
front of the pop in step 2 (Figure 8).FESTIVAL REVELLER   239(Figure 7) (Figure 8)
Sit pop in styrofoam block to dry. Repeat with remaining pops until you have 50 
pupil-less dead eyeballs staring back at you.
Once pops are dry, use a black edible ink pen to draw a round pupil in the middle 
of the colored candy melt “iris”. The smaller the pupil you draw, the more manic 
the eyeball will look (Figure 9).
Attach a small white sprinkle to the top right-hand corner of the pupil with a tiny bit 
of candy melt, dotted on with the back of a toothpick (Figure 10).  If you don’t have 
sprinkles, you can just use a larger dot of white candy melt applied with a toothpick.
(Figure 9) (Figure 10)
Using the red decorating gel, pipe two or three drops of blood coming from the 
base of the cake pop, where it attaches to the fork. Allow to dry for an hour 
before serving. Pops can be stored at room temperature in a cool dry place for up 
to a week from the day the original cake was baked.Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    240SKILL CHECK:
Serve cupcakes with napkins! Those 
gooey brain innards can come as 
a surprise, and the mage tower 
carpeting might never recover.Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe 
(see page 42)
Classic Buttercream recipe 
(see page 58)
1 can cherry pie filling
Gel food coloring (no-taste red 
and black)
1 piping bag fitted with a small 
round tip (Ateco 802)
Cupcake liners 
(white recommended)MAKES  22-25 CUPCAKES
Preheat oven to 350° F; line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Prepare the Foolproof Vanilla Cupcakes recipe (see page 42).
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 15 - 20 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Classic Buttercream 
recipe (see page 58).
Tint buttercream with a tiny amount of no-taste red gel food 
coloring by adding coloring to buttercream with a toothpick. 
(No double dipping!) Once you have a very light pink, mix 
in an even tinier amount of black to point the pink in a more 
“grey matter” direction. Mix to completely incorporate color.
When cupcakes are cooled, use a knife or a cupcake corer 
to remove a small amount of cake from the center of the 
cupcake. Feel free to nom immediately, or put in a ziplock 
bag in the freezer for future cake pops. (See page 52.)
(Figure 1)
Using a spoon, fill the 
cupcakes with cherry pie 
filling, making sure to get a 
few cherries in each one for 
maximum “gore factor” when 
the cupcake is bitten into 
(Figure 1).     
Frost cupcakes:  In the piping 
bag fitted with a small round 
tip (with a hole about double 
the diameter of a pencil), Town overrun by undead looking to score some juicy 
human brains? No problem – swap in some of these cherry-
filled counterparts in place of actual human grey matter. 
Zombies aren’t known for their high perception stat.BRAIN CUPCAKESFESTIVAL REVELLER    242pipe a backwards capital ‘D’ and a second forward facing capital ‘D’, back to back 
as pictured (Figures 2 and 3).
(Figure 2) (Figure 3)
Using a zigzag motion with rounded corners, pipe one side of the cupcake, then 
the other, covering the ‘D’s’ created in the last step. Try to match the zigzags so 
the two sides are mirrored (Figures 4 and 5).
(Figure 4) (Figure 5)
Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    243For the Cupcakes:
1 ½ cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground cloves
¼ teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 ½ cups butter, room temperature
1 ½ cups granulated sugar
3 tablespoons molasses
4 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
For the Lil’ Gingerbread Fella 
Cookie Toppers:
½ cup salted butter
¼ cup packed brown sugar
2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
½ teaspoon baking powder
¼ teaspoon salt
1 ½ teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 ½ teaspoons ground ginger
½ teaspoons ground cloves
1 egg
½ cup molasses
Black edible ink pen
Gold luster dust
QUEST REQUIREMENTS
CONTINUED ON PAGE 238MAKES  20-22 CUPCAKES
Preheat oven to 350° F, line cupcake tins with cupcake liners.
Make lil’ gingerbread fellas:  With a stand or hand mixer, 
cream butter and brown sugar on medium speed until light 
and fluffy, about three minutes. Add egg and molasses, 
scraping the sides of the bowl with a spatula as needed. 
Reduce speed to low.
Mix together flour, salt, baking powder, and spices with a 
whisk and slowly add to bowl with creamed butter mixture. 
Mix until combined.
Roll out dough and cut into lil’ gingerbread fellas using the 
Gingerbread Cupcakes template and instructions on page 
35, and the dough-rolling instructions on page 34. (If you 
have a small gingerbread cookie cutter in your arsenal, feel 
free to go ahead and use it instead, otherwise visit books.
geeksweets.net to print template.)
(Figure 1)
Bake cookies at 350° F for 
12-14 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown 
around the edges (Figure 1). 
Allow to cool completely. 
Once cool, use an edible ink 
pen to draw eyes and mouth, 
and a little gold luster dust 
mixed with a tiny amount of 
vodka to dot on his two 
buttons (Figures 2 and 3).  See 
page 39 for how to paint tiny 
luster dust details.“Run, run, as fast as you can, you’ll never catch me,  
I’m the gingerbread man!”
Clearly this gingerbread man has never heard of your 
Blood-Forged Footguards of Agility.GINGERBREAD CUPCAKESFESTIVAL REVELLER    244
SKILL CHECK:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    245
Quest Requirements:
The lil’ gingerbread fellas will soften 
as they sit on the frosting, so if 
you like your men crunchy (and 
who doesn’t really), add to top of 
cupcakes shortly before serving.For the Cinnamon Cream  
Cheese frosting:
Cream Cheese Frosting recipe  
(see page 64)
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
Gingerbread Cupcakes template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto knife or sharp  
paring knife
1 piping bag fitted w ith a 
 large star tip
Cupcake liners  
(brown recommended)(Figure 2) (Figure 3)
Make gingerbread cupcakes:  In a large bowl, mix together 
flour and spices with a whisk. Set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, 
cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about three 
minutes. Beat in the molasses until incorporated, followed 
by the eggs, one at a time. Add in vanilla.
Add flour and spice mixture and mix on low speed until 
combined. (Be careful not to overmix!)
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds of the way to the top with 
a disher or spoon. Bake 22-25 minutes, until a wooden 
toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes out 
clean. Carefully remove from the cupcake pan and allow to 
come to room temperature.
While cupcakes are cooling, prepare the Cream Cheese 
Frosting recipe (see page 64). Add cinnamon and vanilla 
and beat until combined.
Fill piping bag and frost a 
classic rosette  with large 
star tip (see page 28 for 
frosting techniques). Top 
with lil’ gingerbread fella. 
Then eat him first!Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    246MAKES  4-5 DOZEN SAD SNOWMEN
Prepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe on page 72 as 
directed to the point when dough is ready to roll out.
Roll out dough and cut into “melted snow blobs” using the 
Melted Snowman Cookie template and the cookie dough 
rolling / cutting instructions from page 35 (Figure 1 and 2).  
Visit books.geeksweets.net to print template. Feel free to 
“just wing it” for the shapes, as they are just random puddle 
shapes and don’t need to be perfect – the template can 
give you some shape ideas if you’d like to just go for it.
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just 
beginning to turn brown around the edges. Carefully 
remove from baking sheet and allow to cool completely. 
Prepare Royal Icing recipe from page 70 while cookies are 
cooling. Remove all but three-quarters of a cup of frosting 
and store in a sealed container, or a bowl covered with a wet 
cloth. Set aside. 
To the remaining three-fourths cup of royal icing, add black 
gel dye until a nice dark shade of black is achieved. Not even the strongest of your arcane magics can keep 
Frosty from thawing come spring. Life is beautiful but 
fleeting, adventurer, always remember that.
Now, time to feast on his remains!MELTED SNOWMAN COOKIES
No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe  
(see page 72)
Royal Icing recipe (see page 70)
1 bag regular size marshmallows
Gel food coloring (black)
Orange candy-coated chocolate 
chips (or orange candy of any 
kind: sprinkles, Nerds candy, fuzzy 
peaches, orange Starburst, etc.)
Assorted round and heart shaped 
sprinkles in various colors
Gold and silver dragées
Melted Snowman Cookie template
Waxed paper
Rolling pin
Clean X-acto kni fe or 
sharp paring knife
1 piping bag fitted with a #3 tip, 
filled with white royal icing
1 piping bag fitted with a #1 t ip, 
filled with black royal icingFESTIVAL REVELLER    248Fill piping bags as listed in the Quest Requirements, following the directions on 
how to fill a piping bag on page 27.
Prepare snowman heads: using a small amount of margarine or butter on a piece 
of paper towel, grease the surface of a large dinner plate. Not too much – just a 
very thin layer to keep the marshmallows from sticking.
Place about five or six marshmallows on a plate spaced at least two inches apart, 
and heat in the microwave for 10-15 seconds, until the marshmallows begin to 
expand just slightly. Then remove from microwave and allow to deflate (Figure 3) . This 
will give them the droopy “I’m melting, I’m meeeeeelting!” vibe we’re looking for.
Frost one cookie at a time with white royal icing, using the “dam and flood” 
cookie frosting technique from page 36. While frosting is still wet, carefully lift a 
partially melted marshmallow off the plate and press into the wet icing (Figure 4).  
Complete with remaining cookies and allow to dry completely, at least two hours.
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
Using the black frosting in a piping bag fitted with a #1 tip, pipe stick arms and 
hands that start at the base of the marshmallow - see template for positioning 
examples. Pipe dots for mouths and eyes (or X’s for eyes if you’re feeling macabre).
Using dots of white icing, attach a small orange candy-coated chocolate chip or 
a piece of candy fashioned into a triangle for a nose, two heart sprinkles for a 
bowtie, and sprinkles or silver balls for buttons (Figures 5 and 6).FESTIVAL REVELLER   249(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
Allow cookies to dry completely overnight, then store in a sealed container at room 
temperature between pieces of waxed paper, no more than two rows high, or the 
marshmallows will start to smoosh. Cookies can also be frozen for up to one month. FESTIVAL REVELLER   251
This is the end of your journey, adventurer. You’ve bested all 
levels and branches of the baking skill tree and reveled in your 
success. Time to kick back, relax, and… wait a minute… what is 
that shambling in your direction? It’s moaning and chomping  
and reaching out towards you. You stand up and reach back…
“Wait!” shouts a bearded man in a tattered looking sheriff’s 
uniform. He takes off his hat and takes aim at what you can now 
see is an undead being, furiously grasping at you. 
“I’ve got this,” you say, as you reach for your +12 Axe of 
Undoing. A hero’s work is never done, Dragon Slayer. Cue your 
theme music.
Visit books.geeksweets.net to print ‘Rocking Dead’ invites!THE ROCKING DEAD
SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    252WALKER FINGER COOKIES
MAKES  8-10 DOZEN DIGITS
Optionally, you can toast the 
almonds for improved flavor and 
a bit more weathered look. You 
can also rub a very small amount 
of yellow gel food dye right at 
the base of the nail for maximum 
decomposition realness.No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe 
(see page 72)
Red decorating gel
Cocoa powder
Sliced almonds
Yellow gel food coloring (optional)
Soft large brush
Disher or ice cream scoop 
(optional)Prepare the No-Fail Sugar Cookie recipe on page 72 as 
directed to the point when dough is complete.
Separate out dough into equal sized balls about two inches 
wide, using a disher or ice cream scoop. (You can also use a 
kitchen scale to make equal sized balls, or just eyeball them 
like a pro – you’re a Dragon Slayer now, go for it!)
Roll balls out into finger shapes with a first and second 
knuckle. If you’re in need of a reference, use the very fingers 
you’re using to do the shaping! Exaggerate the knuckles for 
a more emaciated and gnarled zombie finger, and unevenly 
tear off the very end of the fingers where they would have 
attached to the hand (Figure 1).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Using the blunt side of a kitchen knife, add in the curved 
wrinkles around the knuckles, again using your own fingers 
as a visual reference (Figure 2).  
Take a sliced almond and press it down into the fingertip to 
make an indentation in the cookie. Remove the almond, as 
you won’t bake it in with the cookies. Instead, this 
indentation will make a spot to add it back into later (Figure 3).Keep them as a snack, or tie them around your neck  
like a certain crossbow-wielding heartthrob’s ear necklace. 
Walker accessories are all the rage this apocalypse –  
who knew?FESTIVAL REVELLER    254Bake cookies at 350° F for 8-10 minutes or until just beginning to turn brown 
around the edges. Remove from oven.
When cookies are cooled, brush on a small amount of cocoa powder for that “I 
just dug myself out of my own grave” look (Figure 4).
(Figure 3) (Figure 4)
While cookies are still warm, place a blob of red decorating gel in the indentation 
you made in step 5 (Figure 5).  Press a sliced almond into place, pointed side up, as 
the fingertip. Red gel will ooze out around the almond in a deliciously gruesome 
fashion (Figure 5).  
(Figure 5) (Figure 6)
FESTIVAL REVELLER   255(Figure 7)
Let cookies sit to cool and allow gel to set for a 
couple of hours. (Gel will never completely dry 
and will remain tacky, but will set enough to 
keep the fingernails in place.) For an even more 
rotted look, paint a small amount of yellow gel 
dye at the base of the nail (Figure 6).SKILL CHECK:Quest Requirements:
FESTIVAL REVELLER    256No Angostura bitters lying around 
in your potions cabinet? Mix a pinch 
of cinnamon, ground clove, and 
nutmeg with one-quarter teaspoon 
of lemon zest, one-quarter teaspoon 
of finely-diced prunes, and two 
tablespoons of vodka or rum.2 ounces rye or bourbon
3 dashes Angostura bitters
1 sugar cube (or ½ teaspoon of 
granulated sugar)
Club soda
Clear corn syrup (or honey)
Wilton silver granulated sugar
Red decorating gel
Ice
1 old fashioned glass (usually a 
short, heavy bottomed tumbler)Place the silver granulated sugar in a wide bowl.
Using your fingers, spread the clear corn syrup or honey 
around the rim of the glass and turn it upside down in the 
silver sugar crystals to create your spiky “barbed wire” rim 
(Figures 1 and 2).
(Figure 1) (Figure 2)
Using the red decorating gel, trace a ring just under the 
sugar rim on the inside of the glass and allow to ‘drip down’ 
a bit into the glass (Figure 3).
(Figure 3)
Add two or three dashes of 
Angostura bitters and a quick 
splash (about a tablespoon) 
of club soda to the bottom 
of the glass. Mash the sugar 
and bitters together with 
a wooden muddler (or the 
handle of a wooden spoon), 
then rotate glass to spread the 
mash around the bottom.
Add a large ice cube, or 2-3 
medium sized ones, and pour 
the rye or bourbon over it.MAKES  1 NEWFANGLED OLD FASHIONEDLUCILLE COCKTAIL
Named after the barbed wire wrapped bat of the trash-
talking villain you love to hate, and hate that you love so 
much. Uungh. I blame Jeffrey Dean Morgan.259RESOURCES
Wandering merchants, witch doctors, and websites, for all your sweet spellcasting needs.
ThinkGeek
thinkgeek.com
In addition to being an awesome source of geek goodies, ThinkGeek has a sizable section of 
kitchen supplies. Cookie cutters, silicone molds, aprons, Star Wars spatulas... you’ll have the 
geekiest kitchen in the land. 
Golda’s Kitchen
goldaskitchen.com
For Canadian wizards who want to save on shipping, Golda’s has an amazing selection of 
baking supplies, and it is my go-to for baking cups. So very many baking cups.
WarpZone Prints
warpzoneprints.com
3D printed cookie cutters from all your favorite fandoms. And if you’re looking for something 
super specific, they’ll print you a custom cookie cutter from your own design. Neato!
India Tree
indiatree.com
Searched the realm high and low for the perfect sprinkle and came up with nothing? You can 
bet India Tree will have it. And as a bonus, many of their ingredients are made with natural 
flavors and colors. 
Global Sugar Art
globalsugarart.com
An unending selection of baking supplies, including some harder to find items like tylose 
powder to thicken fondant, and gold and silver highlighter for making things shiny. 260Michaels
michaels.com
Michaels is a craft store with an ever-growing baking aisle that gets more and more impressive 
every year. They have every Wilton product under the sun, and a huge selection of bakeware. 
Download their app and get a 40% off coupon for your giant box of fondant.
BulkBarn
bulkbarn.ca
Tips, flavoring, sanding sugars, sprinkles, candy melts, cookie cutters, candies, baking pans 
and more. Just don’t let them catch you sneaking a jelly bean from the bins – they really frown 
on it. I mean, you should still do it. Just don’t let them catch you.
WebstaurantStore
webstaurantstore.com
Ready to start baking for the geek masses? This online store has everything you’ll need to start 
hawking your wizardly wares, like bakery cases, tiers, and disposable packaging.
Amazon
amazon.com
You may have heard of it, it’s only the biggest, baddest, most multinational retail entity out 
there. When all else fails, they’ll have it.A graphic designer by day, Sweet Geek Jenny Burgesse 
found another passion buried beneath a pile of flour 
and dutch process cocoa powder. Geek Sweets began 
in Ottawa as a home-based bakery, with everything 
made from scratch, just like grandma used to make 
– If grandma made Cthulhu Cookies and Battlestar 
Galacticakes. After finding success on the great plains 
of The Internet, Jenny and her trusty sidekick Mr. B 
relocated to Vancouver to be close to family, to be a 
part of the Farmer’s Market scene, and to continue their 
baking quest in the city that holds their hearts.ABOUT THE AUTHOR
