1CHAPTER 1
British Baking
When I came to Great Britain, I thought there wouldn’t be much  
difference between the baking I had done at home in Canada and 
what existed there. This was an English-speaking country, after all. 
Oh, how wrong I was! Toe-may-toe, toe-mah-toe!
British Baking 101
Before working in Great Britain, I had always baked with the most basic ingredi-
ents. I had no idea that so many varieties of sugar existed, or even flours. Being 
so close to the European continent meant that the UK was armed with many 
more choices for ingredients to use in baking than I’d previously known of.
I found there was a proper way of doing things and a definite regional 
 difference between one area and the next. Since the UK comprises four separate 
countries, it’s not surprising that the cakes and baked goods of each one would 
vary a great deal!
Generally, I found their baked goods to be less sweet than what I was used to 
in North America—even the bread. There is a considerable difference.
I soon learned to bake by weight, rather than by volume. Baking by weight is 
a more accurate way of baking, as it leaves no room for error.
British bakers use more natural ingredients and flavors in their baking and 
far fewer processed products. They rely heavily on the use of dried fruits and 
fresh dairy products, of which they have some of the best in the world.2 The Best of British BakingCake mixes and other baking mixes were not available in Britain when I 
first arrived. This is a change that has occurred only over the last few years. The 
British like to bake from scratch!
Once you master the basics through the recipes in this book, there is noth-
ing you won’t be able to bake and enjoy. This book contains a multitude of fresh, 
from-scratch, delicious recipes, varying from simple biscuits (what the British 
call cookies) to sweet or savory breads and everything in between.
Understanding Culture through Food
Like other cultures throughout the world, British baking has been greatly influ-
enced by the cultural history of each area of Britain, as well as the diversity of 
products and ingredients grown and produced locally.
One way to really get to know a culture is to dig in to what fuels the peo-
ple’s appetites. There is great cultural diversity in Great Britain, and this reveals 
itself in many of their dishes, with many hearkening back to the days before 
colonialism.
You will find that most regions in the United Kingdom are sensitive to the 
regionality of their baked goods, with many having achieved a Protected Des-
ignation of Origin, or PDO, which very much pertains to the region, history, 
country, and area of its origin. In this book, you will find recipes originating from 
each country in the UK, and, wherever possible, I have taken great care to high-
light their history and origin.
Although England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland are each a part of 
the UK, they take great pride in their individuality and have their own separate 
flower symbols, saints, holidays, traditions, and foods by which they identify 
themselves. There are also three different languages spoken—English, Welsh, 
and Gaelic—although the majority of people speak English. Differences stem 
from the variations in culture and history that each separate country brings to 
the bountiful table that is Britain. Let it be noted that the English are English, 
Welsh are Welsh, Scots are Scots, and Irish are Irish. They will be very quick to 
let you know the difference!
England
England is the largest and most populated country in the UK and brings a 
multiplicity of baked goods to the table. There are many regional differences in 
baking, with each English county bringing its own unique spin. Baking recipes 3 British Bakingcan vary greatly. Its proximity to “the Continent” (as mainland Europe is lov -
ingly referred to) has also influenced its style of baking.
WalEs
Wales, to the west of England, brings an entirely different flavor to the menu, 
with plenty of griddle or stone cakes (cakes baked on a baking stone), simple 
fruited breads, seed cakes, and honey cakes. Many Welsh share simple values 
that are reflected in their style of baked goods; beloved recipes have been 
handed down from generation to generation with great pride. The Welsh are 
famous for their delicious Bara Brith (page 77), which is a lovely fruit bread 
that you will find at every tearoom in the country. It is meant to be enjoyed with 
plenty of fresh Welsh butter and hot tea.
scotland
Scotland, to the north of England, is a large and diverse country, with plenty of 
coastline, beautiful highlands, and myriad inland lakes and rivers. The cuisine 
of Scotland is quite simple but has also been heavily influenced by the French. 
Mary, Queen of Scots brought with her many of the traditions and flavors of 
France, having been brought up in the French Court. Scotland also grows some 
of the finest raspberries and oats to be found in the world. You may not find 
much in the way of fancy iced buns or cakes heavily laden with buttercream 
icing coming from their bake shops, but you will find some of the best short-
bread biscuits and oat cakes on the planet.
northErn IrEland
The Irish and Northern Irish diet has long relied heavily on potatoes, and so 
potatoes show up at most meals, often more than once. Irish potato farls are 
common breakfast breads, made from leftover potatoes, traditionally baked on a 
stone griddle or “girdle,” and best enjoyed alongside an Ulster Fry. Speaking of 
bread, nothing can compete with a slice of warm Irish soda bread slathered with 
fresh Irish butter (try the widely available Kerrygold or Northern Irish brand, 
Abernethy butter), produced by cows fed on that beautiful green grass.4 The Best of British BakingA Brief Trip through (Baking) History
History has played a large part in the development of baking and baked goods 
in Great Britain. Many other cultures and peoples have greatly influenced 
British baking. The Norse invaders, the Normans, the Celts, and the Romans 
all left their marks on British culture and British baking, with lots of traditional 
dishes from their homelands adapted to what was grown and available for use 
in Great  Britain. This influence has created a food culture that is diverse and 
quite unique.
British Baking versus North American Baking
One thing that all four countries in the UK have in common is their use of 
wholesome and natural ingredients. You will find that their cakes are not as 
sweet as North American cakes, nor are their biscuits (cookies). They rely a lot 
on dried and candied fruit and have long benefited from having been a seafaring 
region with easy access to goods, nuts, and spices from all over the world.
The British love their puddings, and by that I don’t mean what North Amer -
icans usually understand pudding to be. Pudding is a term the British use to 
describe the dessert course of the meal, not a milky concoction to be eaten with 
a spoon. To the British, pudding includes a wide variety of cakes, “bakes” (baked 
goods), and pies.
You will find their cakes and bakes to be quite simple in comparison to those 
found in North America. If there is frosting at all, it will likely be a glacé, which 
is more like a glaze. Most cakes are topped only with a dusting of sugar. Jam 
figures hugely in their bakes and is often used to fill cakes, cookies, and tarts. 
Raspberry jam is most commonly used, but the British are also fond of marma -
lade cakes and use apricot jam to glaze many baked goods. Buttercream icings 
are used to fill and top cakes, such as a coffee and walnut cake.5 British BakingThe Hallmarks of British Baking
Many British desserts are accompanied by jugs of warm custard, which 
they love to pour over their desserts, be it a lush chocolate gateau or 
a warm apple crumble. They also enjoy lashings of heavy unsweetened 
cream poured over the top.
Biscuits in the UK are cookies, and most of them are meant to be 
dunked in and washed down with hot cups of tea. Flapjacks are not pan-
cakes but chewy oat bars, sometimes /f_i  lled with nuts and dried fruits, and 
often topped with chocolate.
British /f_l  our for the most part is unbleached and comes in different 
weights, each meant for different uses. They also have a wide variety of 
sugars and mainly use butter in their baking. Shortening is not used on a 
regular basis, although you will sometimes see margarine being called for 
(but not in this book).
Dried and candied fruits are used far more often than chocolate. When 
chocolate is used, the British like to use good chocolate with a high cacao 
count. Sweetened shredded coconut is not to be found at all; it is always 
desiccated, which is much smaller and drier, and comes both sweetened 
and unsweetened. Larger shaved pieces of coconut make fabulous deco-
rations for cakes and confections. Ginger is another favorite /f_l  avor here. 
You might see four different kinds being used in one bake: ground, can-
died, preserved, and fresh!
There are /f_i  ve common kinds of pastry: short crust, rough puff, puff, 
choux, and hot water. There are variations on these as well. Cakes tend 
to be dense and buttery, and there is no end to the types of pies on offer, 
both sweet and savory.6 The Best of British BakingBaking Staples
The following ingredients are the ones you will find used in this book. I have 
highlighted some ingredients that you may not be familiar with. Wherever pos-
sible, I explain their uses and where you can find them. Ingredients suggested 
for each recipe are the best ones to use for that recipe; proper results cannot be 
guaranteed otherwise. I also offer suitable substitutions where I can.
Flours
Several flours are available in Britain, each lending its own property to the bake. 
It is important to use the right kind of flour for each recipe, as to do otherwise 
can greatly affect the outcome.
All-purpose (also known as plain) flour: This flour is generally used for cakes, 
biscuits, pastries, or any recipe requiring a flour with a low gluten content. This 
type of flour is used most in the recipes in this book.
Bread flour: Commonly called strong flour in the UK, this flour has a higher 
gluten content and is thus best suited for making breads.
Self-rising flour: This is an all-purpose flour with a raising agent added to it. 
Commonly used for baking cakes in the UK as well as scones, self-rising flour is 
not always easy to find, so I’ve included instructions on how to make your own 
(see page 22).
Whole-wheat flour: This flour has not had the bran or germ removed from it. It 
comes in both plain and self-rising varieties, and is known as whole-meal flour 
in the UK.
Cornstarch: This is commonly known as corn flour in the UK.
Sugars
Many bakers choose to use unrefined or less refined sugars in their bakes. There 
is a subtle difference in flavor, but overall you will have just as much success if 
you have access to only more refined sugars.
Caster sugar: This sugar is the one most used for baking. With a finer texture 
than regular granulated sugar, it blends smoothly, producing baked goods with a 7 British Bakingmore even texture. If you are unable to find caster sugar, you can process regular 
granulated sugar in a food processor to give you finer granules.
Icing sugar: Also known as confectioners’ sugar or powdered sugar, this very 
fine sugar is used for making icings and glazes and for dusting over finished 
baked goods.
Brown sugar: This comes in both light and dark varieties. It is the same as 
North American light and dark brown sugar but is referred to in the UK as being 
soft, so you’ll see it in recipes as “soft (light or dark) brown sugar.” I think the 
term soft  is there because it has a higher moisture content than granulated sugar 
and is not free-flowing. This is largely due to the inclusion of molasses. The more 
molasses in the sugar, the browner it will be.
Demerara sugar: This is a less refined sugar than regular granulated sugar. 
Also known as turbinado sugar, demerara has a much coarser grain and darker 
color, although not as dark as brown sugar. It is mainly used for dusting the tops 
of cakes and bakes for a crunchy texture.
Golden syrup, dark treacle, and honey: Golden syrup is unique to the UK. It 
can be difficult to find in North America except in specialty shops or online. It 
has an almost caramel-like flavor, with lemon undertones. Golden Eagle Syrup is 
a suitable substitute. Dark treacle is like molasses but with a somewhat stronger 
flavor. You can use molasses in its place, although it may not give you quite the 
same kick as dark treacle. Alternatively, you can purchase it online. Honey is 
nature’s sweetener. It is suggested that you use clear, runny honey, as it dissolves 
much easier than the creamed variety.
Leaveners
A leavener is something added to a baked good to give it lift or to make it rise. 
There are only three leaveners used in the recipes in this book, all of which are 
common and easy to find.
Baking powder
Baking soda
Yeast: I call for fast-acting or regular dried yeast, depending on the recipe.8 The Best of British BakingFats
Fats add richness, moisture, and flavor to baked goods. Baked goods with added 
fat taste better and feel better in the mouth. They also have a much nicer texture.
Butter: European butter tends to be less salty and lighter in color than North 
American butter. If you are able to source European butter, I recommend using 
it. If you cannot find European butter and need to use North American butter, 
use a lightly salted variety—or use unsalted butter and add salt as needed to 
the recipe.
Lard: Lard is a pork fat that has no discernible taste. It works beautifully in 
pastries. It has a higher melting point than butter or shortening and produces a 
delectable, flaky result.
Suet: Suet is the hard white fat found on the kidneys and loins of animals, 
predominantly sheep and cattle. It is a crumbly fat used to make foods such 
as puddings, pastries, and mincemeat filling. You can find it in specialty shops 
or online. In a pinch, you can use frozen grated butter or shortening instead, 
although the finished product may have a slightly different flavor.
Spices and Flavorings
All the spices and flavorings used in this book are fairly simple. For that reason, 
I highly recommend that you use the freshest and purest spices and flavorings 
you can access.
Ground cinnamon
Ground ginger
Whole nutmeg: I prefer to grate my own, as it has a much fresher flavor.
Mixed spice: This is a specialty baking spice, similar to pumpkin or apple 
pie spice. The British use it a lot in their baking. You can easily make your 
own, which I recommend. Just mix together 1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, 
1 teaspoon each ground coriander and ground or grated nutmeg, 1/2 teaspoon 
ground ginger, and 1/4 teaspoon each ground cloves and ground allspice. Store in 
an airtight container, out of the light, for up to 6 months.
Pure vanilla extract9 British BakingDairy Products and Eggs
Butter: I recommend using European butter, or else lightly salted or unsalted 
North American butter.
Cream: In the UK we have double cream (equivalent to heavy whipping cream 
in the US) and single cream (for which you can use half-and-half).
Eggs:  All eggs used are large free-range eggs, unless otherwise indicated.
Milk: I use homogenized whole milk.
Add-Ins
These ingredients will be required in some recipes for complete authenticity.
Apricot and raspberry jams
Blanched whole almonds
Candied citrus peel: This can be purchased online and in British supply shops. 
You can also find it in some grocery stores in the baking section. A recipe for 
making your own is on page 76.
Candied ginger: This is available online or at specialty shops.
Custard powder: Bird’s is the most common brand and can be purchased in 
some well-stocked grocery stores, British supply shops, or online.
Dried pitted dates
Dried raisins, currants, and sultanas (golden raisins)
Flaked (very thinly sliced) almonds
Glacé cherries: These can be found in the baking section of some grocery stores. 
If you cannot find them, you can use rinsed and dried maraschino cherries.
Ground almonds:  This is often labeled almond meal or almond flour.
Marzipan: This thick almond paste is used to wrap or fill cakes.
Old-fashioned or rolled oats
Walnut halves10 The Best of British BakingHow to Select the Proper Tea
What is a good bake without tea? The British love to pair a fresh  biscuit 
or slice of cake with a nice hot cup of tea. It is commonly thought that hot 
tea can solve all of life’s problems. Tea was not  actually introduced into 
Britain until the 1700s, but once it was, it proved to be/uni00A0so popular that the 
British are now the largest consumers of tea in the world. Once a luxury 
reserved only for the upper classes, it is now quite affordable for all.
For everyday use, I would recommend a good orange pekoe tea. An 
English or Irish breakfast tea will serve you very well from morning to 
midafternoon. Reserve specialty teas such as Earl Grey for occasions such 
as tea parties, or in the late afternoon for a special pick-me-up.
“High tea,” or afternoon teatime, is a bit of a small meal, involving 
/f_i  nger sandwiches, small savories such as sausage rolls, and something 
sweet like a slice of cake, cookie, or tart. It is meant to stave off hunger 
until dinnertime, which can sometimes be as late as 8:00 or 9:00 p.m. 
A typical teatime menu using some of the recipes from this book might 
include Sausage Rolls (page 82), Classic Fruited Scones (page 42) with 
cream and jam, and a slice of Victoria Sponge Cake (page 60).
In other parts of England, suppertime is also known as teatime, a term 
merely used to signify the evening meal, which is usually served 
around 6:00 p.m.11 British BakingEssential Equipment
You will not need much in the way of complicated or unusual equipment to 
make most recipes in this book. All baking dishes are metal, unless otherwise 
specified. Metal pans are more proficient heat conductors and cool down more 
quickly than glass bakeware. They also cook things more evenly.
Baking scale: Although you can certainly bake using standard measuring cups, 
baking by weight will give you much more accurate results. There are many 
good digital scales available that will allow you to measure by weight. Most will 
allow you to add one ingredient, reset the tare, add the next, and so on.
Measuring cups: These are used to measure dry ingredients; they are usually 
metal with a handle.
Glass measuring cup: This is used to measure liquid ingredients; Pyrex is the 
best-known brand.
Measuring spoons: You’ll need at least 1 tablespoon, 1 teaspoon, 1/2 teaspoon, 
and 1/4 teaspoon, although other in-between sizes come in handy.
Wooden spoons
Balloon whisks (large and small)
Silicone spatula
Metal spatula
Round metal cookie cutters in a variety of sizes
Rolling pin
Pastry bag with a variety of tips
Pastry brush
Fine wire sieve: This is useful for sifting ingredients together as well as for dust-
ing icing sugar on top of finished baked goods.
Electric hand mixer
Mixing bowls (small, medium, and large): I recommend glass bowls, which can 
also be used in the microwave.12 The Best of British BakingRimmed Swiss roll pan (9-by-13-inch)
Large rimmed baking sheets (18-by-26-inch)
Round cake tins:  You’ll want two 7-inch and two 8-inch pans; I like the kind with 
removable bottoms.
Rectangular baking tin (7-by-11-inch)
Deep round cake tin or springform pan (9-inch)
Round pie tin (9-inch)
Round tart tin (9-inch)
Shallow tart tin with 12 cups or 12 individual tart tins
Loaf tin (8-by-4-inch)
Square cake tin (7-inch)
Flat griddle pan or large heavy-bottomed nonstick skillet
Wire cooling racks
Helpful But Not Entirely Necessary
Bench scraper
Citrus juicer
Citrus zester
Metal skewer (for testing cakes)
Nutmeg grater or Microplane
Pastry blender (you can use your fingertips or a fork in most cases)
Stand mixer13 British BakingUsing a Digital Scale
A digital scale is a must in my kitchen. It is invaluable for measur-
ing the smallest to the largest of ingredients. There are some great 
battery-operated ones now, and options to suit every budget.
Measuring by weight is a much more accurate way of baking, as 
it leaves no room for error. Although both weight and volume mea-
surements are included with the recipes in this book, you will /f_i  nd that 
measuring by weight is much easier and quicker, as well as more accurate 
and precise than by volume. Surprisingly, measuring cups can vary a great 
deal in size, whereas weight never changes.
If using traditional volume measurements, the proper way to mea-
sure dry ingredients is to spoon them into a dry measuring cup, without 
packing them down, and then level them off using the straight side of a 
knife. One exception to this method is brown sugar, which in most cases is 
packed into the cup. With brown sugar, if you can dump it out and it holds 
its shape, you know you have measured correctly. For wet measurements, 
use dedicated wet measuring cups, which are generally made of glass and 
have a pouring spout.14 The Best of British BakingTechniques and Tips
There is a right way and a wrong way to do everything in this world, and that 
includes baking. It is extremely important to do things the right way for posi-
tive and consistent results. Following my tips and techniques can help ensure 
 success every time you bake.
Leavening
Make sure that your yeast, baking powder, and baking soda are well within the 
use-by date as printed on the package.
There are several kinds of yeast available, including fast-acting yeast, which 
only needs to be mixed into the flour, and regular dried yeast, which must be 
proofed first. To proof regular dried yeast, follow the directions on the package.
To test the freshness of your baking powder or soda, add some to water. If it 
bubbles, it is good to go. Normally, when using baking soda in a recipe, you will 
need to add something acidic to get a good rise. That is why most soda breads 
also use buttermilk or sour milk.
Preparing Yeast Bread Dough
Kneading is one of the most important parts of making yeast breads. Kneading 
helps develop the gluten in the bread, enabling it to rise properly. Do not stint 
on the time required. A properly kneaded dough should be smooth and elastic 
without any lumps or dry spots. At this point the dough is usually left to rise 
until doubled in volume.
Next comes shaping. The proper way to shape a traditional yeast loaf is to tip 
the dough out onto a lightly floured board or countertop. Using a lightly floured 
rolling pin, press the dough out into a rectangle. Use only enough flour to keep 
it from sticking. Roll it up tightly from the long edge, pressing the seam shut on 
the underside. Next, bring each end of the loaf over to the underside, and pinch 
the seams closed. You can then place your loaf into the tin or onto the baking 
sheet, seam-side down and leave it to rise again.
This second rising is (perhaps confusingly) also referred to as proofing. 
Underproofed or overproofed yeast doughs will not rise properly in baking. To 
test if your dough is proofed enough, poke your index finger into it. If it springs 
back right away, the dough needs to rise for a bit longer. If your finger leaves 
an indentation that springs back slowly, then the dough has proofed enough. If 15 British Bakingyou have overproofed your dough, it will not spring back at all. This means that 
most of the air bubbles in your dough have collapsed—but not to worry, you can 
still rescue it. Simply punch down your dough again, reshape, and allow it to 
proof again.
Mixing Batter
For ideal cakes, it is recommended that all ingredients come to room tempera -
ture before beginning, unless specified otherwise. Unsurprisingly, beating by 
hand will take longer than if beating with an electric mixer. Generally, cake bat-
ters should be beaten only long enough for all the ingredients to be combined 
thoroughly, with no dry streaks or lumps remaining. Overmixing results in a 
cake that does not rise as tall, with a tough crumb.
For quick breads, it is acceptable to have a few lumps in the mix. For best 
results, mix only to just combine.
Cutting Butter into Flour
With scones, the fat is rubbed into the flour using your fingertips with a snap-
ping motion. It is important to work quickly so the fat does not melt. As you are 
rubbing, lift your flour up into air. This helps aerate the flour and gives a nicer 
rise. Be careful not to overwork your dough. A light touch is your best tool.
With pastry, it is important to keep everything cold so the fat is incorpo-
rated into the flour rather than melted into the flour. Cut in the fat using a pastry 
blender, using an up-and-down motion with a slight twist. Ideally your flour-fat 
mixture should contain pea-size clumps of fat. If you overhandle the dough, you 
will have a tough pastry. Keep a small amount of the flour in reserve for when 
you are rolling it out, so you don’t add too much extra flour into the mix, which 
can result in a drier, tougher pastry.
Rolling Out and Shaping Dough
A light touch is best when working with dough that needs to be rolled or patted 
out. Resist the urge to over-flour your countertop, rolling pin, or hands. When 
making scones, try to get as many scones cut from the first cut. Scones made 
from the scraps and re-rolls will not be as tender. Take care not to stretch your 
pastry as you are fitting it into a pie tin, as stretched pastry shrinks.16 The Best of British BakingKnowing When Your Bake Is Done
Bread: It should be golden brown on top and sound slightly hollow when tapped 
on the underside.
Cake:  The top should spring back when lightly touched. A toothpick inserted 
into the center should come out clean.
Cookies: They should look firm and be lightly browned on the bottoms and just 
around the edges. A finger poke should not leave an indentation.
Pastries: They should be dry, golden brown, and flaky-looking, never doughy 
or pale.
Pies: The outer ring of the filling in single-crust pies should be firm, with only 
a slight jiggle in the center. This will firm up as the pie cools. For double-crust 
pies, the upper crust should be flaky and golden brown, with the filling bubbling 
up through any air vents. The filling in a meat pie should register 160°F on a 
probe thermometer.
Where to Begin
Each chapter in this book contains simple, delicious, classic bakes that are 
guaranteed to get you into the kitchen baking. With handy tips, you can be sure 
to get the best out of each recipe. Looking for a crisp oat-filled buttery hobnob 
to dunk into hot tea? You can find this recipe on page 28. Do you enjoy a light 
flaky scone studded with fruit? Try the Classic Fruited Scone on page 42. Fancy 
a simple cake to help celebrate a special occasion or just because? Try the lush 
Victoria Sponge Cake on page 60. 
Want a flaky yet savory bake? Perhaps my Sausage Rolls recipe on page 82  
will suit you! Can you picture yourself cozying up to a cup of tea and a toasted 
crumpet in front of the fire this winter? I can! Find my tasty recipe on page 116. 
I assure you, they are a lot easier to bake than you might think!17 British BakingHandy Recipe Tips
Ingredient Tips: Additional information on selecting and buying ingredients 
and working with them.
Technique Tips: Tips for prepping, assembling, and baking more efficiently and 
successfully.
Variation Tips: Suggestions for adding or changing ingredients to mix things 
up or try something new with the recipe. Boring stops here!
Now that you are armed to the hilt with everything you need to know, it’s 
time to put on your “pinny” and get into the kitchen. Let the baking begin!19CHAPTER 2
Biscuits and 
Shortbreads
Digestive Biscuits  20
Viennese Whirls  22
Melting Moments  23
Custard Creams  24
Chocolate Bourbon Biscuits  26
Homemade Hobnobs  28
Gingernuts  29
Empire Biscuits  30
Millionaire’s Shortbread Bars  32
Peppermint Petticoat Tails  34
Chocolate Tiffin Bars  36
Scottish Shortbread  38
Viennese Whirls, 2220 The Best of British BakingDigestive Biscuits
I can almost guarantee that you will find a packet of these in the cupboard of 
every kitchen in the UK. Crisp, buttery, and delicious, they are one of Britain’s 
most popular biscuits, perfect for dunking into a hot cup of tea. Makes 24
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
2/3 cup (100 grams) 
whole-wheat flour
1/4 cup (35 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1 tablespoon rolled oats 
(not old-fashioned oats)1/2 teaspoon 
baking powder
8 tablespoons 
(1 stick/110 grams) 
butter, softened1/2 cup (100 grams) 
soft light brown 
sugar, packed
1 to 4 tablespoons 
whole milk
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F/190°C. Line two rimmed baking 
sheets with parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a bowl, whisk the whole-wheat and all-purpose flours with 
the oats and baking powder. Set aside.
3. In another bowl, cream the butter and brown sugar by hand 
until light and fluffy. Stir in the flour and oat mixture and 
combine well. Begin adding the milk, 1 tablespoon at a time. 
Add only enough milk to give you a thick dough, suitable for 
rolling. The dough should not be tacky or crumbly.
4. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead it 
gently until you have a smooth ball. Try not to overhandle  
the dough.
5. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough out to 1/8 inch 
thickness. Cut into rounds using a 3-inch cookie cutter. Use a 
spatula to transfer to the prepared baking sheets. Repeat until 
all of the dough has been used, reworking and cutting any 
scraps. Prick each cookie once or twice with the tines of a fork.21 Biscuits and Shortbreads6. Bake for 15 minutes, until crisp and golden brown around the 
edges. Transfer to wire racks to cool completely. Store in an 
airtight container.
Technique Tip: Try to get as many cookies as you can from the first cuts. 
Reworked scraps will not be quite as nice as first cuts.
Variation Tip: Baked and cooled cookies can be dipped in melted choc-
olate for an extra special treat. Melt some semisweet or milk chocolate 
chips in the microwave according to package directions. Spread a small 
amount of melted chocolate on top of each cookie with a small offset 
spatula.22 The Best of British BakingViennese Whirls
These beautiful, buttery cookies literally melt in your mouth. They are some-
times sandwiched together in pairs around vanilla buttercream icing. I prefer 
them adorned with a small piece of glacé cherry. Don’t skip the chill time—it’s 
essential for best results. Makes 20
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes  
1 cup (2 sticks/225 grams)  
butter
2/3 cup (75 grams) icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted12/3 cups (225 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip)
1/8 teaspoon 
vanilla extract5 red glacé cherries, 
washed, dried, and 
quartered
1. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and 
set aside.
2. Using an electric hand mixer, cream the butter and sugar 
together until well combined and very soft. If not creamed 
enough, your dough will be too stiff to pipe. Stir in the flour 
and vanilla.
3. Transfer the dough to a piping bag fitted with a large star 
nozzle. Pipe the dough into rosettes on the prepared baking 
sheet, at least 2 inches apart. Place a piece of cherry on 
top of each.
4. Place the baking sheet in the refrigerator to chill 
for 30 minutes.
5. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
6. Bake the chilled cookies for 15 minutes, until firm and just 
beginning to turn golden around the edges. Transfer to a wire 
rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container.
Ingredient Tip: You can easily make your own self-rising flour. Simply 
add 11/2 teaspoons baking powder and 1/2 teaspoon salt to every 1 cup 
(140 grams) all-purpose flour needed.23 Biscuits and ShortbreadsMelting Moments
These crisp cookies have a lovely, almost shortbread-like texture. Rolled in 
oats and topped with a tiny piece of a glacé cherry, they are wonderful enjoyed 
with a hot cup of tea. Makes 16 to 20
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 to 20 minutes
1/2 cup (40 grams)  
rolled oats (not 
old-fashioned oats)
3 tablespoons butter, 
softened
5 tablespoons 
(69 grams) lard6 tablespoons (72 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
1 large free-range egg 
yolk, slightly beaten
1/8 teaspoon vanilla extract1 cup plus 11/2 tablespoons 
(150 grams) self-rising 
flour (see tip on page 22)
4 or 5 glacé cherries, 
washed, dried, and 
quartered
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Put the oats in a bowl and set aside.
3. In a separate bowl, cream the butter, lard, and sugar together 
until light and fluffy. Beat in the egg yolk and vanilla.
4. Using a wooden spoon, stir in the flour and incorporate 
thoroughly. (You may need to use your hands to get in 
the last bits.)
5. Using your hands, roll the dough into 1-inch balls, then roll 
each ball in the oats to coat.
6. Place the oat-coated balls on the prepared baking sheet, 
2 inches apart. Use your thumb to slightly flatten each ball, 
and place a piece of cherry in the center of each.
7. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until light golden brown. Let cool on 
the baking sheet for several minutes before transferring to a 
wire rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container.24 The Best of British BakingCustard Creams
These crisp biscuits have a beautiful crumbly texture and are sandwiched 
with a delicious custard-flavored buttercream filling. A food processor is very 
helpful to make these. You can also make them with an electric mixer, but it 
will take longer to bring the dough together. Makes 24
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 20 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes  
For the cookies
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1/3 cup (52 grams) cus-
tard powder1/4 cup (30 grams) icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
3/4 cup 
(11/2 sticks/170 grams) 
butter, diced
1/2 teaspoon 
vanilla extractFor the filling
31/2 tablespoons butter, 
softened
11/2 cups (200 grams) 
icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons cus-
tard powder
1 to 2 tablespoons whole 
milk (if needed)
To make the cookies
1. Combine the flour, custard powder, and icing sugar in the bowl 
of a food  processor. Pulse to combine.
2. Drop in the diced butter and vanilla. Pulse just until every -
thing begins to come together (12 to 15 pulses). (Alternatively, 
you can combine all the cookie ingredients in a bowl and beat 
with an electric mixer until everything comes together.)
3. Tip the dough out onto a large piece of plastic wrap. Bring the 
dough together into a smooth, flat disk and wrap tightly. Place 
in the refrigerator to chill for 10 minutes.
4. Line two rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Using a 
lightly floured rolling pin, roll the chilled dough out to 1/4 inch 
thickness. Cut into rounds using a 2-inch cookie cutter. Place 
on the prepared baking sheets and prick the tops with a fork. 
Place back in the refrigerator to chill for another 10 minutes.25 Biscuits and Shortbreads5. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Bake the chilled cookies for 
10 minutes, just until they begin to color around the edges. 
Cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes, then carefully trans-
fer to a wire rack to cool completely.
To make the filling and finish
6. Combine the butter, icing sugar, and custard powder in a bowl 
and beat with an electric hand mixer until smooth and fluffy. 
Add a bit of milk if needed, a tablespoon or less at a time, until 
thick, creamy, and spreadable.
7. Sandwich the cooled cookies together with the buttercream. 
Store in an airtight container.26 The Best of British BakingChocolate Bourbon Biscuits
These sugar-dusted rich chocolate biscuits boast a wonderful creamy filling. 
Contrary to the name, they do not actually contain any bourbon. Traditionally, 
each individual cookie has 10 holes poked into it with the flat end of a wooden 
skewer. Makes 14
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
For the cookies
31/2 tablespoons butter
1/4 cup (50 grams) 
soft light brown 
sugar, packed
1 tablespoon 
golden syrup
3/4 cup (105 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting3 tablespoons 
unsweetened cocoa 
powder, sifted
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 to 2 teaspoons 
whole milk
2 tablespoons granulated 
sugar, for sprinklingFor the filling
31/2 tablespoons butter, 
softened
1 cup (130 grams) icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
1 tablespoon unsweet-
ened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons whole milk
1/8 teaspoon 
vanilla extract
To make the cookies
1. Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a bowl, cream the butter and brown sugar together with an 
electric hand mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in the golden 
syrup until well combined.
3. In another bowl, whisk together the flour, cocoa powder, and 
baking soda. Sift this mixture into the creamed mixture. Add 
the milk, a little at a time, until soft, even, and a bit crumbly.27 Biscuits and Shortbreads4. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead 
gently until the dough comes together completely, about a 
minute. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough out 
to an 8-by-12-inch rectangle roughly 1/4 inch thick. Cut into 
14 rectangles, about 11/4 inches by 23/4 inches.
5. Using the flat end of a skewer, punch 10 indents into each 
rectangle, 5 along each long edge. Do not punch all the way 
through. Dust the cookies with the granulated sugar. Carefully 
transfer to the prepared baking sheet using a spatula.
6. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, until crisp around the edges. Transfer 
to a wire rack and cool completely.
To make the filling and finish
7. Beat all the filling ingredients together in a bowl using an 
electric hand mixer until smooth, creamy, and evenly colored. 
Spread a heaping teaspoon onto the unsugared side of half of 
the cookies and top with the remaining cookies, sugar-side up. 
Store in an airtight container.28 The Best of British BakingHomemade Hobnobs
Hobnobs are one of Britain’s favorite cookies. This from-scratch version is 
incredibly “moreish,” meaning you will not be able to eat just one. They’re 
crisp and very dunkable. You have been warned. Makes 20
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 25 minutes
10 tablespoons 
(140 grams) butter
3/4 cup (140 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
1 tablespoon whole milk1 teaspoon golden syrup
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (140 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)11/3 cups (110 grams) 
rolled oats (not 
old-fashioned oats)
1. Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a bowl, cream the butter and sugar together until light and 
fluffy. Using an electric hand mixer, beat in the milk, golden 
syrup, and baking soda until well mixed. Stir in the flour and 
oats by hand, making sure they are well combined.
3. Divide and shape into 20 evenly sized balls, and place them 
2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheet.
4. Bake for 25 minutes, until golden brown around the edges 
and set. Cool on the baking sheet for several minutes before 
transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in an air -
tight container.
Variation Tip: These treats are sometimes dipped in chocolate. Melt a 
quantity of semisweet or milk chocolate in the microwave according to 
the package directions. Dip the bottoms of the baked and cooled cookies 
in the melted chocolate and place on a piece of wax paper to sit until the 
chocolate is completely set.29 Biscuits and ShortbreadsGingernuts
These delicious, crunchy biscuits flavored with spice and ginger are the 
perfect dunkers. They are quick to make and a real all-round family pleaser. 
Makes 4 dozen
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
2 cups (280 grams) 
all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon 
ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon baking soda1/2 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)
1 cup (200 grams) soft light 
brown sugar, packed1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
cold butter, cut into bits
1 tablespoon golden syrup
1/4 cup (60 mL)  
boiling water
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Line two baking sheets with 
parchment paper. Set aside.
2. Sift the flour, ginger, baking soda, and mixed spice into a bowl. 
Stir in the brown sugar. Drop in the butter and rub the mix-
ture together with your fingertips until it resembles fine dry 
bread crumbs.
3. Stir the golden syrup and boiling water together until the 
syrup melts. Add this mixture to the flour-butter mixture and 
stir everything together with a butter knife until the mixture 
forms a soft dough.
4. Pinch off 2 tablespoons of dough and shape into a ball using 
the palms of your hands. Place on the prepared baking sheets, 
leaving 2 inches between each ball. Flatten slightly with 
your fingertips.
5. Bake for 15 minutes, until golden brown and firm. Cool on 
the baking sheets for 15 minutes or until well set. Use a metal 
spatula to transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in 
an airtight container.30 The Best of British BakingEmpire Biscuits
These rich, buttery biscuits are a Scottish teatime classic. They are  
sandwiched together with raspberry jam, glazed with a sweet icing sugar 
glaze, and topped with half a glacé cherry. Makes 20
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
1 cup (225 grams) butter, 
softened
Scant 1/2 cup (85 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
1 large free-range egg, 
lightly beaten3 cups (420 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
2 cups (260 grams) 
icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted4 to 6 tablespoons 
whole milk
10 glacé cherries, 
washed, dried, 
and halved
1/2 to 2/3 cup raspberry 
jam, for filling
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line two baking sheets with 
parchment paper and set aside.
2. In a large bowl, stir the butter and sugar together with a 
wooden spoon until well combined and a bit granular, but not 
creamed. Stir in the egg, mixing it in well, and then quickly rub 
in the flour using your fingertips in a quick  snapping motion 
until it becomes crumbly.
3. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead it 
gently until you have a smooth dough.
4. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough out to 1/8 inch 
thickness. Cut into rounds using a 21/2-inch cookie cutter. 
Transfer to the prepared baking sheets using a metal spatula.
5. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, carefully turning them over halfway 
through. They will be done when they are just barely colored. 
Scoop onto wire racks to cool completely.31 Biscuits and Shortbreads6. Mix the icing sugar with enough milk to make a thick, spread-
able glaze. Spread the glaze over the tops of half of the cooled 
cookies, then place half a piece of cherry in the middle of each. 
Allow to set.
7. Spread up to 11/2 teaspoons of raspberry jam on the remaining 
cookies, spreading it completely to the edges. Top each with a 
glazed cookie, glazed-side up. 
Technique Tip: The granulated sugar most used for baking in the UK is 
caster sugar. It is a fine granulated sugar, noted for its ability to melt into 
bakes without leaving any grit behind. You can easily create your own if 
your sugar is particularly coarse by pulsing regular granulated sugar in a 
food processor.32 The Best of British BakingMillionaire’s Shortbread Bars
Thought to be a Scottish recipe, these bars boast a crisp and buttery short-
bread crust, with a sweet caramel filling and rich chocolate topping. You’ll 
need a food processor for the shortbread base. This is a decadent and very 
“moreish” bar—that is, irresistible! Makes 12
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour inactive time  BAKE TIME: 20 minutes
For the shortbread base
1/2 cup (1 stick/ 
110 grams) butter
11/4 cups (175 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1/4 cup (55 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)For the caramel filling
3/4 cup 
(11/2 sticks/170 grams)  
butter
1/2 cup plus 
11/2 tablespoons 
(115 grams) fine granu-
lated sugar (caster sugar)
3 tablespoons 
golden syrup1 (14-ounce/400 grams) 
can sweetened  
condensed milk (not 
evaporated milk)
For the topping
8 ounces (200 grams) 
semisweet chocolate, 
broken into pieces
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter a 9-inch square baking 
tin and line it with parchment paper, leaving some excess 
overhang for ease in lifting out the finished bars.
To make the shortbread base
2. Combine the butter, flour, and sugar in the bowl of a food pro-
cessor. Pulse until the mixture begins to bind together, about 
10 pulses. Tip the mixture into the prepared baking tin. Using 
lightly floured fingertips, press the mixture into the tin evenly, 
smoothing over the top. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until com-
pletely set and golden brown around the edges.
To make the caramel filling
3. While the base is baking, combine the butter, sugar, golden 
syrup, and condensed milk in a medium saucepan. Gently heat 
over low heat, stirring continuously, until the sugar has com-
pletely dissolved and is not gritty.33 Biscuits and Shortbreads4. Bring the mixture to a boil, then reduce to a slow simmer. Stir 
continuously for 6 to 8 minutes, until the mixture becomes 
very thick and caramel-colored. Pour the caramel over the top 
of the baked shortbread base. Place in the refrigerator until 
cold, about 30 minutes.
To make the topping
5. Melt the chocolate in a heat-proof bowl set over a pan of sim-
mering water. Do not allow the bottom of the bowl to touch the 
water. Stir until completely melted. Pour the melted chocolate 
evenly over the top of the chilled caramel base, smoothing it 
out to cover. Return to the refrigerator to chill until solid, 30 to 
45 minutes. Once solid, cut into 12 bars to serve. Store any 
leftovers in the refrigerator.34 The Best of British BakingPeppermint Petticoat Tails
These charming biscuits make the perfect addition to an afternoon tea. They 
are called petticoat tails because the ruffled edge is said to resemble the 
ruffles in a lady’s petticoat. The addition of peppermint extract makes these a 
bit more special. You can, of course, leave it out if you prefer. You will need a 
9-inch fluted tart tin with a removable bottom for this pretty treat. Makes 8
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 25 minutes
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
(21/4 sticks/250 grams) 
butter, softened
1/2 cup (95 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)1/2 teaspoon pepper-
mint extract
12/3 cups (250 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting2/3 cup (100 grams) corn-
starch (corn flour)
1/2 teaspoon salt
Icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, for dusting
1. Combine the butter, sugar, and peppermint extract in the bowl 
of a food processor. Pulse together until pale and creamy. 
(Alternatively, beat with an electric hand mixer until pale and 
creamy.)
2. Sift together the flour, cornstarch, and salt in a bowl. Tip this 
mixture into the food processor or mixer and pulse or beat just 
until the mixture starts to form small clumps. 
3. Tip out the dough onto a lightly floured surface and bring the 
dough together to form a ball. Use a light touch and try not to 
overwork the dough.
4. Place the ball of dough in a 9-inch fluted tart tin with a remov -
able bottom. Using floured fingers, press the dough to fill the 
tin as evenly as you can. Use a light touch and try not to really 
compress the dough.
5. Use the tines of a fork to mark the dough into 8 even wedges, 
and place the tin in the refrigerator to chill for 30 minutes.
6. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.35 Biscuits and Shortbreads7. Place the tart tin on a rimmed baking sheet and bake for 
25 minutes, just until it’s beginning to turn golden brown 
around the edges. Remove from the oven and re-mark the 
edges of the wedges with a fork while still very warm.
8. Cool completely, dust with icing sugar and break into wedges  
to serve. 36 The Best of British BakingChocolate Tiffin Bars
Chocolate tiffin bars, or tiffin cake as it is also known, is said to be the favor -
ite dessert of Princes William and Harry. There is no real baking involved. 
They are a quick and easy make for the family without any heating up of the 
kitchen. Beloved by children, young and old alike, tiffin bars make for great 
party fare! Makes 8
PREP TIME: 10 minutes, plus 1 hour to chill  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
7 tablespoons 
(95 grams) butter
1/4 cup golden syrup (in 
a pinch you can use 
corn syrup)3 tablespoons 
unsweetened cocoa 
powder, sifted
2 tablespoons soft light 
brown sugar, packed
1 cup (150 grams) raisins21/2 cups (225 grams) 
broken digestive bis-
cuits (or broken graham 
crackers)
8 ounces (225 grams) milk 
chocolate, melted
1. Generously butter an 8-inch square baking tin, then line with 
parchment paper, leaving a bit of an overhang. Butter the 
parchment paper as well. Set aside.
2. Combine the butter, golden syrup, cocoa powder, and brown 
sugar in a large saucepan. Melt over medium-low heat, stirring 
constantly, until the sugar no longer feels gritty and every -
thing is well combined. Stir in the raisins.
3. For the best texture, make sure the crumbled biscuits are a 
mix of sizes, with some larger bits and smaller bits, along with 
some crumbs. Stir the crumbles into the butter mixture in the 
pan, mixing everything together until the biscuit pieces are 
well coated and the raisins are evenly distributed.
4. Tip this mixture into the prepared baking tin. Press into the 
pan firmly using the bottom of a metal measuring cup. The 
mixture should be compact.
5. Pour the melted chocolate evenly over the top of the mixture, 
spreading with an offset spatula to cover the mixture completely.37 Biscuits and Shortbreads6. Place in the refrigerator to chill completely, at least an hour.
7. Once set, lift out and cut into squares to serve. Store any  
leftovers tightly covered in the refrigerator.
Variation Tip: If you like, you can add candied cherries or dried cherries, 
dried cranberries, or a mix of these along with raisins to make up the same 
measure of raisins.38 The Best of British BakingScottish Shortbread
Is there anything on earth more beautiful or delicious than a crumbly short-
bread biscuit? I think not! The Scots are immensely proud of their shortbread 
and quite rightly so. It is important that your butter be the right consistency. 
It should be soft enough that you can press your finger into the block, leaving 
a bit of a dent, but not overly so. Makes 24 to 30 biscuits or  
1 (9-by-13-inch) pan
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 10 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 45 minutes for a full pan
11/4 cups 
(21/2 sticks/280 grams) 
butter, softened
3/4 cup (140 grams) fine 
granulated sugar (caster sugar), plus more for 
sprinkling
2 cups (280 grams) 
all-purpose flour1 scant cup (140 grams) 
cornstarch (corn flour)
Pinch salt
1. In a bowl cream together the butter and sugar using an elec-
tric hand mixer until pale in color.
2. Sift together the flour, cornstarch, and salt into another bowl. 
Stir the flour mixture into the creamed butter-sugar mixture 
until thoroughly combined, without overmixing. Tip the mix-
ture into a 9-by-13-inch metal baking dish.
3. Using floured hands or an offset spatula, lightly press the 
mixture into an even layer. Place in the refrigerator to chill 
for 10 minutes.
4. Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C.
5. Bake the chilled shortbread for 45 to 55 minutes, until set but 
not colored.
6. Remove from the oven and immediately sprinkle the top 
abundantly with more sugar, and then cut into squares or bars. 
Leave to cool in the baking dish for at least 10 minutes before 
transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in an air -
tight container.FPOFPO
41CHAPTER 3
Scones and Buns
Classic Fruited Scones  42
Honey-Wheat Scones  44
Cheese and Onion Scones  46
Traditional Rock Cakes  48
Fat Rascals  49
Yorkshire Rock Cakes  50
Scottish Oat Cakes  52
Potato Cakes  54
Northern Irish Soda Bread  55
Victoria Scones  56
Honey-Wheat Scones, 4442 The Best of British BakingClassic Fruited Scones
Classic fruited scones are the scones you will see served in just about every 
tearoom in the UK. They are buttery, tender, and studded with plenty of sticky 
sultanas, then traditionally served with clotted cream and strawberry jam. 
There is much debate about which goes on first, the cream or the jam! This 
decision depends on where your roots lie, but they are delicious no matter 
which goes on first! Makes 10
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
21/2 cups (350 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22), plus more 
for dusting
11/2 teaspoons 
baking powder1/3 cup (75 grams) cold 
butter, cut into bits
21/2 tablespoons fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
1/2 cup (75 grams) sultanas2 large free-range eggs
1/2 to 2/3 cup (120 to 
160 mL) whole milk
Demerara sugar, for 
sprinkling
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Sift the flour and baking powder into a bowl, lifting the sieve 
high above the bowl to get as much air into the flour as you 
can. Drop the cold butter into the bowl. Using the tips of your 
fingers and a snapping motion, rub the butter quickly into the 
flour until the mixture resembles fine dry bread crumbs. Stir in 
the sugar and sultanas.
3. Beat the eggs in a small bowl. Remove and set aside 
2 tablespoons of beaten eggs. Using a fork, beat 1/2 cup 
(120 mL) of milk into the remaining beaten eggs. Add the milk 
mixture to the flour mixture, stirring together with a butter 
knife. You should have a soft but slightly tacky dough. Add 
more of the remaining milk if your mixture is too dry. You 
don’t want a gummy, wet mixture, but you also don’t want a 
dry, crumbly mixture.43 Scones and Buns4. Tip the dough onto a lightly fl  oured surface and knead it gently a 
few times before patting it out to a round roughly 1 inch thick.
5. Cut into rounds using a 3-inch cookie cutter. Cut using a 
direct up-and-down motion, without twisting the cutter. Try to 
get as many cuts as you can from the fi  rst cut. Place the scones 
on the prepared baking sheet as you go. Gather up any scraps, 
re-pat, and re-cut, until you have 10 scones.
6. Brush the tops with the reserved beaten eggs and sprinkle 
with a bit of coarse sugar.
7. Bake for 10 minutes, until well risen and golden brown on the 
tops and bottoms. Scoop onto a wire rack to cool completely. 
These are best eaten the same day, but you can store leftovers 
in an airtight container.
Tips for Baking and Enjoying Perfect Scones
→Keep your butter well chilled so it rubs into the ﬂ  our mixture, rather than 
melting into it.
→Use a light touch when working with the dough. You’ll get a much nicer rise 
and lighter scone if you avoid overworking the dough.
→Try to get as many scones from the ﬁ  rst cutting that you can. Scones cut from 
reworked and re-patted dough will not be as tender or rise as tall.
→Do not twist the cutter when cutting out the scones. A sharp up-and-down 
motion is best. When you twist the cutter, you seal the dough, so the scones 
rise lopsided in the oven.
→When brushing the egg on top of the scones, don’t let it drip down the sides 
of the scones. This will also hamper your rise.
→Unlike baking powder biscuits, most scones are meant to be eaten at room 
temperature.
→Clotted cream and jam are really nice accompaniments to scones, but clotted 
cream is difﬁ  cult to ﬁ  nd in North America. You can use softly whipped cream 
in its place.
→Scones go perfectly with a hot cup of tea!44 The Best of British BakingHoney-Wheat Scones
Traditionally, these delightful whole-meal (whole-wheat) flour scones, made 
often in Northern Ireland,  would be sweetened with a good Irish honey. They 
are baked as a whole round scored into wedges, and then broken apart to eat. 
Unlike English scones, these are meant to be enjoyed warm with butter. At one 
time, they would have been baked on an iron “girdle” (griddle) pan over an 
open fire. Makes 8
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 20 minutes
3/4 cup (105 grams) 
all-purpose flour
3/4 cup (105 grams) 
whole-wheat flour
2 teaspoons 
baking powderPinch salt
1/3 cup (75 grams)  
butter, softened,  
plus more  
for serving1 tablespoon soft light 
brown sugar, packed
4 to 5 tablespoons (60 to 
80 mL) whole milk
2 tablespoons honey
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Butter a rimmed baking 
sheet and set aside.
2. Sift the all-purpose flour into a bowl. Whisk in the whole-wheat 
flour, baking powder, and salt.
3. Drop in the butter and rub it into the flour mixture with your 
fingertips using a snapping motion until the mixture resem-
bles fine dry bread crumbs. Stir in the brown sugar.
4. Stir the milk and honey together until the honey has totally dis-
solved. Remove and set aside a tiny bit for glazing the scones. 
Add just enough of the milk-honey mixture to the flour-butter 
mixture to make a soft dough, stirring it in with a butter knife.
5. Tip out the dough onto the prepared baking sheet and gently 
shape into a 7-inch round. With a sharp knife, lightly score 
the top into 8 wedges without cutting all the way through 
to the bottom.45 Scones and Buns6. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until dry and set. Remove from the 
oven and glaze with the reserved milk-honey mixture. Return 
to the oven for 5 to 10 more minutes, until golden brown.
7. Remove from the oven and break into wedges. Serve warm, 
split open, with lashings of soft butter. These are best 
eaten the same day, but you can store leftovers in an air -
tight container.46 The Best of British BakingCheese and Onion Scones
Tender and flaky, these savory scones are delicious on their own, spread with 
butter, or served alongside a bowl of hot soup. They also make a delicious 
addition to a traditional British ploughman’s lunch, which usually consists 
of sliced cold meat, some cheese, a bit of pickle, and some salad. Simple and 
delicious. Makes 12
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
21/2 cups (350 grams) 
all-purpose flour,  
plus more  
for dusting
1 tablespoon 
baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt1/4 teaspoon dry mus-
tard powder
1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
cold butter, cut into bits
1 cup (120 grams) grated 
extra-sharp cheddar 
cheese, divided2 scallions, trimmed and 
finely chopped
1 large free-range egg
1 cup (240 mL) whole milk
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Sift the flour, baking powder, salt, and mustard powder into a 
large bowl. Drop the butter in and rub it into the flour mixture 
with your fingertips using a snapping motion, until the mix-
ture resembles coarse bread crumbs.
3. Add 3/4 cup (90 grams) of cheese and the scallions and 
stir to combine.
4. In another bowl, beat together the egg and milk. Pour over 
the flour mixture and stir it in with a fork until you get a soft, 
shaggy mixture.
5. Tip out the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 
gently 8 to 10 times, just to bring the dough together. Pat into 
a round about 3/4 inch thick.47 Scones and Buns6. Cut out rounds using a 21/2-inch cookie cutter. Try to get as 
many rounds from the first cut that you can. Gather the scraps 
together and re-cut until you have 12 rounds. Place on the pre-
pared baking sheet. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup (30 grams) 
of cheese evenly over the tops of the scones.
7. Bake for 15 minutes, until golden brown. Enjoy warm or at 
room temperature. These are best eaten the same day, but you 
can store leftovers in an airtight container.48 The Best of British BakingTraditional Rock Cakes
Rock cakes are a rough-drop type of scone, spooned onto a baking sheet and 
baked. They are filled with lovely bits of sultanas, raisins, chopped dried  
cherries, and candied citrus peel. These cakes are lovely served warm with 
butter. These are also said to be Harry Potter’s favorite cakes! Makes 8 to 10
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
2 cups (280 grams) 
all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons 
baking powder
1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
cold butter, cut  
into bits7 tablespoons (85 grams) 
soft light brown 
sugar, packed
9 tablespoons (95 grams) 
mixed dried fruit
Finely grated zest 
of 1 lemon1 large free-range egg
1 to 2 tablespoons 
whole milk
2 teaspoons demerara 
sugar, for sprinkling
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Butter a rimmed baking 
sheet and set aside.
2. Sift the flour and baking powder into a large bowl. Drop in the 
butter and rub it into the flour using a snapping motion with 
your fingertips, until the mixture resembles coarse sand. Stir 
in the sugar, dried fruit, and lemon zest.
3. In another bowl, beat the egg and 1 tablespoon of milk. Stir the 
egg mixture into the flour mixture, adding the other table-
spoon of milk only if needed to make a moist but firm and 
droppable dough.
4. Drop the dough to make 8 to 10 equal heaps on the prepared 
baking sheet. Sprinkle with the demerara sugar.
5. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, turning the pan around halfway 
through the baking time. When done, the cakes will be well 
risen, golden brown, and firm. Transfer to a wire rack to cool 
before eating.
Technique Tip: Wash your citrus before using, even if it is unwaxed. 
Simply rinse under cold water, brush with a vegetable brush, and then dry. 49 Scones and BunsFat Rascals
These fruity bakes are thought to have originated in the area between Durham 
and Yorkshire. This recipe dates back to the 1800s. They are more pastry-like 
and sturdy than a traditional scone, but equally delicious. They go especially 
well with a nice hot cup of tea in midafternoon. Makes 7 to 8
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 20 minutes
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
Pinch salt
1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
butter, cut into bits and 
softened31/2 tablespoons fine 
granulated sugar (caster 
sugar), plus more 
for dusting1/3 cup (50 grams) dried 
currants
1/4 to 1/3 cup (60 to 80 mL) 
milk and water mixed 
together
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Generously butter a rimmed 
baking sheet and set aside.
2. Sift the flour into a bowl. Stir in the salt. Drop in the bits of 
butter, and using your fingertips and a snapping motion, rub 
the butter into the flour until the mixture resembles dry bread 
crumbs. Stir in the sugar and dried currants.
3. Add enough milk-water mixture to the flour mixture to create 
a firm dough that is not crumbly, nor wet.
4. Tip out the dough onto a floured surface. Pat or roll into a 
round about 1/2 inch thick. Cut into rounds using a 3-inch 
cookie cutter. Place on the prepared baking sheet, leaving 
some space between each. Dust the tops with  additional sugar.
5. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until pale golden brown. Carefully 
transfer to a wire rack to cool completely before serving. These 
are best eaten the same day.50 The Best of British BakingYorkshire Rock Cakes
These tasty bakes fall somewhere between a scone and a bun. In Yorkshire 
they are called fat rascals, but are completely different from the Fat Rascals 
recipe on page 49! You will want to enjoy these warm, with a cold glass of milk 
or a hot drink. If you are feeling especially indulgent, you can split them and 
spread with some butter. Makes 6
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
1 cup plus 11/2 tablespoons 
(150 grams) 
all-purpose flour
1 cup plus 
11/2 tablespoons 
(150 grams) self-rising 
flour (see tip on  
page 22)
1 teaspoon baking  
powder
Pinch salt1/2 cup (1 stick/ 
110 grams) cold butter, 
cut into bits
1/2 cup (95 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
Finely grated zest of 
1 medium orange
Finely grated zest 
of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)1 cup (150 grams) mixed 
dried fruit (sultanas, 
raisins, currants, and 
candied citrus peel)
1 large free-range  
egg plus 1 additional 
egg yolk
4 to 5 tablespoons 
whole milk
1 tablespoon water
6 glacé cherries
18 blanched almonds
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Sift both flours into a bowl, along with the baking powder and 
salt. Drop the cold butter into the bowl and quickly rub it into 
the flour, using your fingertips and a snapping motion, until it 
resembles fine dry bread crumbs. Stir in the sugar, orange and 
lemon zests, mixed spice, and dried fruits.
3. In a small bowl, beat the whole egg with 4 tablespoons of milk. 
Make a well in the flour mixture and add the egg mixture all at 
once. Stir in using a butter knife to make a soft dough. If the 
mixture seems dry, add the remaining tablespoon of milk.51 Scones and Buns4. Divide the mixture equally into 6 portions and gently shape 
each into a ball. Place the balls spaced well apart on the 
prepared baking sheet. Using the palm of your hand, gently 
flatten each to about 3/4 inch thick.
5. In a small bowl, beat the egg yolk with the water. Brush the top 
of each round with the mixture. Press a cherry down into the 
center and place 3 almonds decoratively around the cherry.
6. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until well risen and golden brown. 
Leave to rest on the baking sheet for 5 minutes, then transfer 
to a wire rack to cool a bit more. These are best served warm; 
however, they can be tightly wrapped and frozen, and gently 
reheated at a later date.52 The Best of British BakingScottish Oat Cakes
These oaty cakes are delicious, buttery, and crisp. They are lovely served with 
crumbled cheese or spread with butter and served with a strong cuppa for 
breakfast. Makes 32
PREP TIME: 20 minutes, plus 45 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 40 minutes
3/4 cup (60 grams) 
old-fashioned oats  
(not instant oats),  
divided
11/2 cups (210 grams) 
all-purpose flour3/4 cup (150 grams) 
soft light brown 
sugar, packed
3/4 teaspoon flaked sea 
salt, plus more for 
sprinkling1/2 teaspoon freshly 
ground black pepper
3/4 cup (11/2 sticks/ 
170 grams) butter, cut 
into small pieces
2 to 4 tablespoons 
cold water
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
2. Spread 1/2 cup (45 grams) of oats onto a rimmed baking sheet. 
Toast the oats in the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, until golden 
brown. Tip the oats into the bowl of a food processor and pulse 
until finely ground.
3. Pour the ground oats into a large bowl and add the flour, sugar, 
salt, and pepper. Combine thoroughly.
4. Drop in the butter and rub it into the flour mixture using your 
fingertips and a snapping motion, until the mixture resembles 
coarse meal. Stir in 2 tablespoons of water, and then add the 
remaining tablespoon of water as needed, a bit at a time, until 
the mixture forms a soft dough. Shape into a flat rectangle and 
wrap tightly in plastic wrap. Place in the refrigerator to chill 
for 45 minutes.
5. Preheat the oven again to 350°F/180°C.53 Scones and Buns6. Unwrap the rectangle of dough and place it on a sheet of 
parchment paper. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup (15 grams) 
of oats all over the dough. Place another piece of parchment 
paper on top. Using a rolling pin, roll the dough out into a rect-
angle about 10 inches by 12 inches.
7. Cut into 32 rectangles, each about 21/2 inches by 11/2 inches. 
Using a spatula, transfer to a rimmed baking sheet, spacing 
them at least 1 inch apart. Sprinkle with flaked sea salt.
8. Bake for 28 to 30 minutes until golden brown. Transfer to a 
wire rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container.54 The Best of British BakingPotato Cakes
These traditional savory cakes are proof that what the Northern Irish manage 
to bake up with potatoes with is always delicious. They are wonderful whether 
served for breakfast, tea, or supper. Who knew leftover mash could taste so 
good? Makes 6
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
6 tablespoons (80 grams) 
cold mashed potatoes
3/4 cup (105 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting1/4 cup (50 grams) lard
Pinch saltWhole milk, as needed
Butter, for serving
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Butter a rimmed baking 
sheet and set aside.
2. Mix the potatoes and flour together in a bowl. Rub in the 
lard with your fingertips until the mixture resembles coarse 
meal. Mix in the salt and just enough milk to produce a soft, 
pliable dough.
3. Tip out the dough onto a floured surface. Roll or pat into a 
round about 1/2 inch thick. Cut into rounds using a 21/2-inch 
cutter. Place on the prepared baking sheet.
4. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until golden brown. Serve immedi-
ately, with plenty of butter for spreading on the warm cakes. 
These are best eaten on the same day, but leftovers can be 
stored in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
Ingredient Tip: Resist any urge to swap the lard for another fat. Lard 
works best for this recipe.55 Scones and BunsNorthern Irish Soda Bread
There’s nothing quite as comforting as a slice of warm homemade Irish 
soda bread or farls fresh from the griddle and slathered with plenty of 
fresh butter and jam. It is also excellent with soups or stews. Here’s the 
quick and easy recipe that’s a mainstay in most Northern Irish homes. 
Makes 1 (8-inch round) loaf
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 25 minutes
31/4 cups (450 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1 teaspoon salt1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon fine gran-
ulated sugar (caster 
sugar) (optional)13/4 cups (420 mL) butter-
milk, divided (you may 
not need it all)
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Lightly butter a rimmed 
baking sheet and set aside.
2. Sift the flour, salt, and baking powder into a bowl. Whisk in the 
sugar, if using. Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients. 
Pour in 11/2 cups (360 mL) of buttermilk. Using your fingers, 
mix everything together to make a soft but not sticky dough. 
Add some of the remaining 1/4 cup (60 mL) of buttermilk, 
if necessary.
3. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead 
lightly a few times. It is important not to over-knead the dough 
as this will toughen it. A few turns is sufficient. Shape the 
dough into an 8-inch round.
4. Place on the prepared baking sheet. Using a sharp knife, cut a 
cross in the top, about 1/2 inch deep.
5. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes. Test that the loaf is done by turning 
it over and tapping it on the bottom with your knuckles. It 
should sound hollow.
6. Place on a wire rack to cool, then cut into slices to serve. Soda 
bread is best eaten on the same day, but leftovers can be stored 
in an airtight container for up to 2 days. It can also be wrapped 
tightly and frozen for up to 3 months.56 The Best of British BakingVictoria Scones
These rich scones are baked in rounds, scored into wedges. The cherries  
on top make them especially pretty. They earn their name, as they’re fit for  
a queen. Makes 4
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22), plus more 
for dusting
Pinch salt1/4 cup (50 grams) cold 
butter, cut into bits
1/4 cup (50 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)1 large free-range egg
7 tablespoons (100 mL) 
whole milk
4 glacé cherries, cut into 
quarters
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Drop the butter into the bowl 
and quickly rub it into the flour using your fingertips and a 
snapping motion. The mixture will resemble fine dry bread 
crumbs when done. Stir in the sugar.
3. In another bowl, beat the egg and milk together. Remove and 
set aside a tiny bit to brush on top of the scones.
4. Add the egg-milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir it in 
with a butter knife to make a soft dough. Tip out the dough 
onto a lightly floured surface and knead gently a few times.
5. Cut the dough into 4 equal pieces. Shape each piece into a 
round, roughly 1/2 inch thick. Place each round on the prepared 
baking sheet. Using a sharp knife, score the top of each round 
into 4 sections, without cutting all the way down through the 
rounds. Brush the reserved egg-milk mixture on top of each 
scone, and lightly push a piece of cherry into the center of 
each quarter.
6. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, until well risen and golden brown. 
Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Enjoy at room temperature with 
some butter and jam. These are best eaten the same day, but 
you can store leftovers in an airtight container.FPOFPO
59CHAPTER 4
Cakes and Loaves
Victoria Sponge Cake  60
Coffee and Walnut Cake  62
Battenberg Cake  64
Classic Lemon Drizzle Cake  66
Madeira Cake  68
Traditional Swiss Roll  70
Sticky Toffee Cake  72
Traditional Christmas Cake  74
Bara Brith  77
Scottish Dundee Cake  78
Battenberg Cake, 6460 The Best of British BakingVictoria Sponge Cake
Historically, it is said that this cake was originally prepared by one of Queen  
Victoria’s chefs for her birthday. It caught on with the public and has been a 
popular cake ever since. It makes a great centerpiece for the tea table and is 
quite simply delicious. Makes 1 (7-inch) cake
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 25 minutes
3/4 cup 
(11/2 sticks/170 grams) 
butter, softened
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
(170 grams) fine granu-
lated sugar (caster sugar)1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
11/4 cups (170 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)3 tablespoons rasp-
berry jam
Icing (confectioners’) 
sugar or additional fine 
granulated sugar (caster 
sugar), for dusting
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Generously butter two 
7-inch layer cake tins, line the base with parchment paper, and 
set aside.
2. Using an electric hand mixer or a stand mixer, cream the 
butter, sugar, and vanilla until fluffy and light in color. Beat 
in the eggs a bit at a time, beating well with each addition. If 
the mixture starts to curdle and split, add a tablespoon of the 
flour mixture.
3. Using a metal spoon, fold in the flour. Use a cutting motion 
and try not to knock too much of the air out of the mixture. 
Divide the batter evenly between the prepared baking tins. 
Level off the surface of each cake and then make a slight dip in 
the centers using the back of a metal spoon.
4. Bake in the center of the oven for about 25 minutes. The cakes 
should be well risen and golden brown and should spring back 
when lightly touched near the center. A toothpick inserted in 
the center should come out clean.61 Cakes and Loaves5. Cool in the pan for 5 minutes. Run a knife around the edge of 
each cake and then carefully tip out the cake onto a wire rack, 
gently pulling off the paper. Cool completely.
6. Place one cooled cake layer onto a serving plate, bottom-side 
up. Spread with the jam, all the way to the edges. Top with the 
other layer, right-side up. Dust with icing sugar or caster sugar 
to finish. This will keep for up to 4 days tightly covered.
Variation Tip: You can add a layer of vanilla buttercream icing to the 
center of the cake along with the jam. To make a simple buttercream, 
using an electric hand mixer, beat together 1/4 cup (50 grams) soft-
ened butter, 1 cup (130 grams) sifted icing (confectioners’) sugar, and 
1 tablespoon whole milk until thick and creamy. Spread over the bottom 
layer and then top with the jam. Finish as directed.62 The Best of British BakingCoffee and Walnut Cake
This is one of my all-time favorite cakes. With its moist coffee-flavored sponge 
and coffee buttercream icing, it always pleases. As a bonus, it is an amazingly 
easy cake to make. Makes 1 (8-by-4-inch) loaf cake
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to cool  BAKE TIME: 45 minutes
For the cake
1/2 cup (120 mL) milk
1/3 cup (75 grams) butter, 
cut into bits
1 tablespoon instant 
coffee granules
1/2 cup (95 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)1/2 cup (60 grams) chopped 
toasted walnuts, plus 
toasted walnut halves, 
for decoration
1 large free-range egg, 
lightly beaten
1 cup (140 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22), siftedFor the coffee  
buttercream icing
Scant 1/2 cup (100 grams) 
butter, softened slightly
11/3 cups (160 grams) 
icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon instant coffee, 
dissolved in 1 teaspoon 
boiling water
1 to 3 teaspoons whole 
milk, as needed
To make the cake
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F/160°C. Generously butter an 
8-by-4-inch loaf tin and line with baking parchment, leaving an 
overhang for lifting out the finished cake when done. Set aside.
2. Combine the milk, butter, and coffee granules in a saucepan. 
Cook over medium heat, stirring, for several minutes, until the 
coffee has dissolved completely.
3. Remove from the heat and stir in the sugar and chopped wal-
nuts. Let cool until you can stick your finger in it, then beat in 
the egg with a wooden spoon until well combined. Stir in the 
flour just to combine.63 Cakes and Loaves4. Spoon the batter into the prepared loaf tin, smoothing over 
the top. Bake in the center of the oven for 40 minutes, or until 
risen and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.
5. Leave to cool in the tin for 5 minutes, then turn out onto a wire 
rack to cool completely.
To make the coffee buttercream icing
6. Combine the butter, sugar, coffee, and 1 teaspoon of milk in 
a bowl and beat together until thick and creamy, adding only 
enough milk to give you a proper spreading consistency.
7. Spread the icing over the top of the cooled loaf and then dec-
orate with toasted walnut halves. This cake will keep tightly 
covered for up to 4 days.64 The Best of British BakingBattenberg Cake
This traditional teatime bake has been appearing in British cookery books for 
over two centuries. Another name for it is church window cake, as the finished 
cake is thought to resemble the appearance of the stained-glass windows of a 
church. It only looks complicated and is much easier to make than one would 
suppose. Makes 1 (7-inch square) cake
PREP TIME: 45 minutes, plus 45 minutes to cool  BAKE TIME: 30 minutes
3/4 cup (11/2 sticks/ 
170 grams) butter, 
softened
Scant 1 cup (175 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar), plus 
more for dusting3 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
11/4 cups (175 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)
A few drops red food 
coloring2 to 3 tablespoons vanilla 
buttercream icing
2 to 3 tablespoons warmed 
and sieved apricot jam
2/3 pound (275 grams) 
natural almond paste 
(marzipan)
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F/160°C. Generously butter a 7-inch 
square tin, line with parchment paper, and set aside.
2. Using an electric hand mixer or a stand mixer, beat the butter 
and sugar together until light and fluffy. Beat in the eggs, a 
little bit at a time. If the  mixture curdles, add a spoonful of the 
flour. Stir in the flour until smooth.
3. Transfer half the batter to a separate bowl. Tint one bowl of 
batter pink using a few drops of red food coloring.
4. Spoon the batters into the prepared baking tin, placing the 
plain batter on one side and the pink batter on the other 
side. Smooth the top gently without mingling the batters 
into each other.
5. Bake on the center rack for 30 to 35 minutes. When done, the 
top should spring back when lightly touched near the center, 
and a toothpick inserted in the center should come out clean.
6. Cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then carefully tip out the dough 
onto a wire rack to finish cooling.65 Cakes and Loaves7. Once the cake is completely cool, using a serrated knife, trim 
all the edges away from the cake, and then cut the cake into 
4 equal long sections, 2 plain and 2 pink.
8. Place one of each color cake section side by side and spread 
a little butter  cream icing between them to help them adhere. 
Repeat with other 2 sections. Spread a little warm jam on top 
of one of the 2-section blocks and place the other 2-section 
block on the jam, alternating the colors for a checker -
board pattern.
9. Dust the countertop with some granulated sugar. Roll the 
marzipan out on the granulated sugar into a thin oblong 
layer, about 7 inches long and roughly wide enough to wrap 
all the way around the cake with about a 1/2-inch overlap. 
Brush with some of the warm apricot jam.
10. Place the checkerboard sponge on top of the marzipan, plac-
ing it into the middle, perpendicular to the short side of the 
marzipan rectangle. Bring the marzipan up over the cake to 
cover it completely and press it lightly into place, with a bit of 
an overlap in the center. Brush more jam on the overlap so it 
seals shut and holds in place.
11. Place the cake on a serving plate, seam-side down. Using the 
dull edge of a knife, lightly mark the top of the marzipan in 
the traditional crisscross pattern. Cut into slices to serve. 
Store any leftovers in an airtight container for up to 4 days.66 The Best of British BakingClassic Lemon Drizzle Cake
I cannot think of anyone who does not immediately get excited at the sight of a 
lemon drizzle cake, buttery and moist with a tart lemon syrup glaze. Enjoy it cut 
into thick slices to serve along with hot cups of tea. Makes 1 (8-by-4-inch) loaf
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 40 minutes
For the cake
3/4 cup 
(11/2 sticks/170 grams) 
butter, softened
Scant 1 cup (175 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)3 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
11/4 cups (175 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22), sifted
Finely grated zest and 
juice of 1 medium lemonFor the drizzle
1/4 cup (50 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
Finely grated zest and 
juice of 1 medium lemon
To make the cake
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter an 8-by-4-inch loaf tin 
and then line it with parchment paper, overlapping the edges 
for ease of removal. Set aside.
2. Using an electric hand mixer or a stand mixer, beat the butter 
and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in the eggs one at a time, 
mixing them in well after each addition. If the mixture curdles, 
add a spoonful of the flour.
3. Gently fold in the flour and then stir in the lemon zest and 
juice to combine. Spoon the batter into the prepared pan and 
smooth over the top.
4. Bake on the center rack for 40 to 45 minutes, until well risen and 
golden brown. The top should spring back when lightly touched 
and a toothpick inserted in the center should come out clean.67 Cakes and LoavesTo make the drizzle and finish
5. While the cake is baking, whisk the sugar, lemon zest, and 
juice together until the sugar has dissolved. Set aside.
6. While the cake is still warm, prick it all over the top using the 
tines of a fork or a toothpick. Slowly drizzle the lemon syrup 
liberally and evenly over the top, allowing it to soak in.
7. Turn out the cake, lifting by the parchment, onto a wire rack 
and remove the paper carefully. Leave to cool completely 
before cutting into slices to serve. Store leftovers tightly cov -
ered for up to 3 days.68 The Best of British BakingMadeira Cake
Contrary to the title, this delicious cake contains no madeira, nor is it related 
to Madeira in Portugal. It is one of the more popular British cakes, being 
dense and delicious and lightly flavored with lemon. I find it to be similar in 
texture to a North American pound cake. Traditionally it is decorated in the 
center with long strips of candied lemon peel. It goes down well with a hot cup 
of tea. Makes 1 (8-by-4-inch) loaf cake
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 1 hour
Heaping 3/4 cup (115 grams) 
all-purpose flour
Heaping 3/4 cup (115 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)
Scant 1 cup (175 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)Finely grated zest of 
1 medium lemon
3/4 cup 
(11/2 sticks/170 grams) 
butter, softened
3 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten1 to 2 tablespoons 
whole milk
Thin slivers candied 
lemon peel, for garnish
Icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, for dusting 
(optional)
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Generously butter an 
8-by-4-inch loaf tin. Line with parchment paper, and set aside.
2. Sift both flours together into a bowl and set aside.
3. Measure the sugar into another bowl and rub the lemon zest 
into it until very fragrant. Drop in the butter and, using an elec-
tric hand mixer or stand mixer, cream together until light and 
fluffy. Beat in the eggs, a little bit at a time, until well incorpo-
rated. If the mixture curdles, beat in a spoonful of the flour. Fold 
in the flours using a metal spoon until thoroughly incorporated. 
Stir in just enough milk for a soft, droppable batter.
4. Spoon the batter into the prepared pan, smoothing over the 
top. Bake on the center rack for 20 minutes.69 Cakes and Loaves5. Carefully remove from the oven and lay the lemon peel on 
top, then return the cake to the oven to bake for 40 additional 
minutes, until golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the 
center comes out clean. Cool in the tin for 10 minutes before 
transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
6. If desired, dust the cake with icing sugar before cutting into 
thin slices to serve. Store any leftovers in an airtight container 
for up to 5 days.70 The Best of British BakingTraditional Swiss Roll
This is a childhood favorite: a delicious fat-free sponge, rolled up with a jam 
filling and cut into thick slices to serve. Of course, you can get a bit more 
creative and fill it with lemon curd, whipped cream, fresh fruit, and so on. It is 
a quick and easy cake to make. You will need a 9-by-13-inch Swiss roll tin to 
bake this in. Serves 6 to 8
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
4 large free-range eggs
1/2 cup (95 grams) fine 
granulated sugar (caster 
sugar), plus more 
for dusting3/4 cup (105 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)Heaping 1/4 cup straw-
berry or raspberry jam
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Lightly butter a 9-by-13-inch 
Swiss roll tin, line the bottom with parchment paper, and 
set aside.
2. Combine the eggs and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer, and 
using the whisk on high, whisk them together until light and 
frothy. Continue to mix on high until the mixture leaves a ribbon 
trail when you lift the whisk from the bowl. (Alternatively, you 
can use an electric hand mixer, although it may take you longer.)
3. Using a spatula, fold in the flour a little bit at a time, and 
take care not to knock the air out of the egg/sugar mixture. 
Don’t overmix or the cake will be tough and not as light. Pour 
into the prepared baking tin and gently shake to level it out, 
making sure the batter gets into all the corners. This is import-
ant because of the short bake time and high temperature.
4. Bake in the center of the oven for 10 minutes, until the cake is 
golden brown and the edges have begun to shrink away from 
the sides of the pan.71 Cakes and Loaves5. Meanwhile, lay out a sheet of parchment paper larger than the 
baking tin on the countertop and liberally dust it with sugar.
6. Invert the baked cake onto the sugar-dusted parchment paper. 
Remove the tin and, working quickly, carefully peel off the 
parchment paper. Make a shallow cut/score along one short 
edge of the cake, about 1 inch from the edge. Do not cut all the 
way through; this is only for ease of rolling. Leave to cool for a 
few minutes.
7. Spread a layer of jam all over the surface of the warm cake and, 
starting at the short edge where you made the cut, start to roll 
up the cake firmly.
8. Place the roll on a cake dish or platter, seam-side down. 
Cool completely before cutting into slices with a serrated 
knife to serve. Store any leftovers in an airtight container for 
up to 3 days.72 The Best of British BakingSticky Toffee Cake
Not to be confused with the pudding, this delightful cake embodies all of the 
elements of the perennial British favorite sticky toffee pudding. It has the 
same rich, moist date and brown sugar cake topped off with a lush brown 
sugar and cream frosting. Makes 1 (7-by-11-inch) cake
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to cool  BAKE TIME: 45 minutes total
For the cake
8 ounces (225 grams) 
pitted Medjool dates
11/4 cups (300 mL) water
1 teaspoon baking soda
Heaping 3/4 cup 
(170 grams) soft light 
brown sugar, packed
1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
butter, softened1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
11/3 cups (190 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22)For the icing
1/2 cup (100 grams) 
soft light brown 
sugar, packed
6 tablespoons (90 mL) 
heavy cream
2 tablespoons butter, 
softened
31/2 tablespoons icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
To make the cake
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter a 7-by-11-inch baking 
tin, line the base with parchment paper, and set aside.
2. Using a pair of kitchen scissors, snip each date into 3 or 
4 pieces. Put the dates in a saucepan along with the water. 
Bring to a boil and boil for about 10 minutes, until most of the 
water has been absorbed and the dates have  softened. Remove 
from the heat and stir in the baking soda. Set aside to cool.
3. Using a wooden spoon, cream together the brown sugar, 
butter, and vanilla extract until light and fluffy. Gradually beat 
in the eggs and then fold in the cooled date mixture. Stir in the 
flour to combine.73 Cakes and Loaves4. Spoon the batter into the prepared baking tin, smoothing 
the top over. Bake on the center rack for 30 to 35 minutes 
until risen and just set. Remove from the oven and cool in 
the tin for 15 minutes before tipping out onto a wire rack to 
cool completely.
To make the icing
5. Combine the sugar, cream, and butter in a saucepan. Heat 
over medium-low heat, stirring, until the sugar has dissolved. 
Bring to a boil, then leave to cook without stirring for exactly 
4 minutes, until golden brown. Remove from the heat and 
allow to cool completely.
6. When cold, beat in the icing sugar until smooth. Using the 
back of a wet metal spoon, smooth it over top of the cold date 
cake. Leave to set before cutting into bars to serve. Store any 
leftovers in an airtight container for up to 5 days.74 The Best of British BakingTraditional Christmas Cake
All over Great Britain, people go to great lengths to bake a beautiful fruitcake 
every year for Christmas. It is usually baked in early November, five to six 
weeks before Christmas, then wrapped in a brandy-soaked cloth and fed with 
more brandy biweekly up until the day it is savored. These are often covered 
with a layer of marzipan as well as a fondant icing and decorated with ribbons 
and small figures for the day, and served cut into thin slices late in the after -
noon on Christmas Day. Many people enjoy theirs with some crumbled cheese 
on the side. Makes 1 (9-inch round) cake
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus overnight to soak  BAKE TIME: 41/2 hours
3 cups (450 grams) dried 
currants
1 generous cup 
(175 grams) raisins
1 generous cup 
(175 grams) sultanas
1/4 cup (50 grams) glacé 
cherries, rinsed, dried, 
and halved
1/4 cup (50 grams) finely 
chopped candied citrus 
peel (see tip)
1/3 cup (80 mL) good 
brandy, plus more for 
soaking the cake12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)
1/4 teaspoon freshly 
grated nutmeg
Pinch salt
1 cup (2 sticks/225 grams)  
butter
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
(225 grams) soft light 
brown sugar, packed4 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
2 tablespoons dark 
molasses
1/4 cup (50 grams) 
coarsely chopped 
blanched almonds
Finely grated zest of 
1 medium lemon
Finely grated zest of 
1 medium orange
1. The evening before you are going to bake the cake, combine 
the currants, raisins, and sultanas in a large glass bowl, along 
with the cherries and candied citrus peel. Mix well and then 
stir in the brandy. Cover the bowl with a plate and leave to sit 
overnight, giving it an occasional stir.
2. In the morning, preheat the oven to 275°F/140°C. Generously 
butter a deep 9-inch round baking tin and then line it with 
2 layers of parchment paper, buttering each layer. Set aside.75 Cakes and Loaves3. Sift the flour into a bowl along with the mixed spice, nutmeg, 
and salt. Set aside.
4. In a separate bowl, cream the butter and brown sugar together 
until light and fluffy, using an electric hand mixer. Beat in the 
eggs, a little bit at a time. If the mixture curdles, add a spoonful 
of the flour mixture. Fold in the flour mixture to combine well.
5. Fold in the dark molasses along with the steeped fruits and 
any brandy left in the bowl, the chopped almonds, and the 
grated citrus zests. Mix well and then spread the mixture into 
the prepared pan, pressing it down lightly. Place the prepared 
baking tin on a baking sheet.
6. Take a double thickness of newspaper and tie it around the 
outside of the cake tin, making sure it extends about an inch 
above the tin. Top with a large square of parchment paper with 
a 1-inch hole cut out of the center.
7. Place the tray with the cake tin on the lowest rack of the 
oven. Bake for 41/2 to 43/4 hours, until the cake springs back 
when lightly touched and a toothpick inserted in the center 
comes out clean.
8. Place the cake, in the tin, on a wire rack to cool for 30 minutes, 
then remove the newspaper and discard. Carefully tip the cake 
out onto the wire rack and remove the baking parchment. Let 
cool completely.
9. Soak a double thickness of cheesecloth in some brandy and 
wrap the cake in this. Place into a tin, tightly cover, and leave 
in a dark spot until ready to decorate. Spoon a few tablespoons 
of brandy over the top of it twice a week until then.
Ingredient Tip: I like to order my candied citrus peels whole and then 
chop them myself. You can purchase them online. See page 76 for a recipe 
to make your own.
Technique Tip: Don’t stint on the recommended paper linings and wrap-
pings for the cake. Because of the long, slow cooking, these are necessary 
to help keep the cake moist.76 The Best of British BakingDIY Candied Citrus Peels
If you are really keen on candied citrus peels, you can make your own. You 
will need the peels of citrus fruits, such as grapefruit, oranges, lemons, 
etc. Remove the peels and a fair amount (not too thick) of the pith (the 
bitter white part). Blanch the peels several times in boiling water. To do 
this, cut the peels into strips and put them in a saucepan. Cover with cold 
water, bring to a boil for 5 minutes, and drain. Repeat this process three 
times. If your peels still taste quite bitter, repeat again. Grapefruit peels 
sometimes need to be blanched a few more times.
Once they are blanched, make a simple syrup by using equal parts 
water and granulated sugar, enough to completely submerge your peels. 
Bring the water and sugar to a boil, allow the sugar to dissolve  completely, 
and then add the peels. Reduce to a simmer and simmer the/uni00A0peels until 
soft and slightly translucent, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
Set up a drying rack over some parchment paper. Carefully remove the 
peels from the syrup and lay them out in a single layer on the drying rack. 
Leave them to dry overnight. (Keep any syrup left in the pan. It makes a 
great sweetener for teas or other beverages.) Optionally, once the peel 
has dried, you can roll it in granulated sugar to coat, but it is lovely 
just as it is.
Store the candied peel in an airtight container in a cool, dark place for 
several months.77 Cakes and LoavesBara Brith
Bara brith is a Welsh quick bread/cake. It contains no fat at all, yet it’s incred-
ibly moist and delicious. Loaded with fruit, this treat is fabulous cut into thin 
slices and served with soft butter for spreading. You will need to plan ahead, 
as the fruit needs to soak overnight in cold tea. Makes 1 (8-by-4-inch) loaf
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus overnight to soak  BAKE TIME: 2 hours
21/2 cups (350 grams) 
mixed dried fruits (rai-
sins, sultanas, currants)
11/4 cups (300 mL) strongly 
brewed tea, cold
13/4 cups (250 grams) 
all-purpose flour2 teaspoons 
baking powder
2 teaspoons mixed spice 
(see page 8)
Pinch salt2/3 cup (130 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
1 large free-range egg, 
lightly beaten
1. Put the dried fruit in a bowl. Pour the cold tea over top and stir 
to combine. Cover the bowl with a plate and leave to sit over -
night. Do not drain.
2. The next morning, preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter an 
8-by-4-inch loaf tin and line the bottom and up both long sides 
with parchment paper, leaving an overhang for ease of lifting 
out. Set aside.
3. Sift the flour, baking powder, mixed spice, and salt together 
into a bowl. Stir in the sugar to combine.
4. Add the soaked fruit, along with any juices in the bowl, and the 
beaten egg. Mix well.
5. Spoon the batter into the prepared loaf tin, smoothing the top 
level. Bake in the center of the oven for 2 hours, until well risen 
and golden brown. A toothpick inserted in the center should 
come out clean. Cool in the tin for 10 minutes before lifting the 
loaf out to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight 
container for up to 2 weeks.78 The Best of British BakingScottish Dundee Cake
Dundee cake is a traditional Scottish fruitcake. Unlike the Traditional Christmas 
Cake (page 74), this has a light batter and no candied cherries in it, contain-
ing only raisins and currants. It is not quite as labor-intensive as the traditional 
fruitcake, but it’s every bit as delicious. The top is decorated with whole blanched 
almonds. Makes 1 (7-inch round) cake
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 2 hours 15 minutes
11/4 cups (175 grams) 
self-rising flour (see tip 
on page 22), sifted
1/2 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)
Pinch salt
Scant 1 cup (175 grams) 
fine granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)Finely grated zest of 
1 large orange
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon 
(175 grams) butter
3 large free-range eggs, 
lightly beaten
1 cup (150 grams) dried 
currants1 cup (150 grams) raisins
6 tablespoons (80 grams) 
chopped mixed candied 
citrus peel
1 tablespoon Scot-
tish whisky
16 to 20 whole 
blanched almonds
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F/160°C. Butter a deep 7-inch round 
cake tin, line with parchment paper, and set aside.
2. Sift together the flour, mixed spice, and salt. Set aside.
3. Rub the sugar and orange zest together until fragrant. Add the 
butter and beat together until light and fluffy. Beat in the eggs, 
a little bit at a time, until thoroughly combined. If the mixture 
curdles, stir in a teaspoon of the flour mixture. Stir in the flour 
mixture thoroughly. Stir in the currants, raisins, and candied 
peel along with the whisky, combining well.
4. Spoon into the prepared baking tin, smoothing over the 
top. Bake for 11/2 hours. Remove from the oven and place the 
blanched almonds decoratively on top in two concentric 
circles. Return the cake to the oven and bake for an additional 
45 minutes. The cake is done when golden brown and a tooth-
pick inserted in the center comes out clean. Transfer to a wire 
rack and allow to cool completely before removing from the 
cake tin. Store in an airtight container for up to a month.FPOFPO
81CHAPTER 5
Sweet and Savory 
Pies and Tarts
Sausage Rolls  82
Cornish Pasties  84
Steak and Mushroom Pie  86
Eccles Cakes  88
Flaky Pastry  90
Bakewell Tart  91
Treacle Tart  92
Sweet Short Crust Pastry  93
Banoffee Pie  94
Creamy Caramel Custard Tart  96
Savory Short Crust Pastry  98
Homemade Mincemeat  99
Mince Pies  100
Traditional Custard Tart  102
Cornish Pasties, 8482 The Best of British BakingSausage Rolls
These classic puff pastry rolls filled with a savory sausage filling are popular 
all over the UK. They are great for parties, picnics, lunches, and game nights. 
Cut into smaller pieces, they also make great appetizers. Makes 12
PREP TIME: 10 minutes  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
11/4 pounds (500 grams) 
good-quality  
sausage meat
1 large onion, minced
3/4 cup (90 grams) fine dry 
bread crumbs1 large free-range egg, 
beaten and divided
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper1 sheet ready-made 
all-butter puff pastry, 
thawed if frozen
All-purpose flour, 
for dusting
1. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C. Line a large baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Crumble the sausage meat into a bowl. Add the minced onion, 
bread crumbs, and half of the beaten egg, along with some salt 
and pepper. Mix everything together well, using your hands to 
combine. Divide the mixture into 3 equal portions.
3. Unroll the puff pastry and lay it out on a lightly floured coun-
tertop. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the pastry out 
to a 12-by-16-inch rectangle. Cut the rectangle crosswise into 
3 long strips.
4. Shape each third of the sausage meat mixture into a log the 
length of each strip of pastry, by rolling it between the palms 
of your hands. Place one meat log down the center of each 
pastry strip.
5. Brush one long edge of each strip with some of the remaining 
beaten egg. Roll the pastry up over the meat to enclose, over -
lapping the edges with the egg-brushed edge facing down on 
the bottom edge. Gently press closed.83 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts6. Carefully flip the logs over and flatten them slightly with the 
palm of your hand. Cut each crosswise into 4 even pieces and 
place them onto the prepared baking sheet, leaving some 
space in between each. Brush the top of each sausage roll with 
the remainder of the beaten egg and snip the dough on top a 
couple of times with kitchen scissors to vent. Alternatively, 
you can prick each with a fork a few times.
7. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until golden brown and 
cooked through.
Variation Tip: For sausage and cheese rolls, add 1 cup (120 grams) 
grated cheese to the sausage mix. Stilton is nice, as is a good cheddar. For 
a fruited sausage roll, you can add half of a medium apple (peeled and 
grated) or 1/2 cup (75 grams) chopped dried cranberries or apricots to the 
sausage mix.84 The Best of British BakingCornish Pasties
Pasties are a type of meat and potato pie that have long been associated with 
the Cornwall area of the UK and hold a protected geographical status (PGI). 
Shaped like a half-moon, this sturdy pastry is crimped on the side rather than 
the top and contains a delicious meat, potato, rutabaga, and onion filling. 
These are meant to be eaten by hand and are wonderful for picnics or bagged 
lunches! Do plan ahead, as the pastry needs to chill for at least 3 hours prior to 
baking. Makes 6
PREP TIME: 25 minutes, plus 3 hours to chill  BAKE TIME: 50 minutes
32/3 cups (500 grams) 
strong bread flour 
(high-gluten flour), plus 
more for dusting
1 teaspoon salt, plus 
more to taste
1/2 cup (110 grams) lard or 
white vegetable short-
ening, cut into bits1/2 cup (1 stick/110 grams) 
butter, cut into bits
Scant 3/4 cup (175 mL) 
cold water
1 pound (450 grams) flank 
steak, cut into small dice
1 pound (450 grams) pota-
toes, peeled and cut 
into small dice8 ounces (225 grams) 
rutabaga, peeled and 
cut into small dice
1 large onion, thinly sliced
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 medium free-range 
egg, beaten with 
1 tablespoon water
1. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Drop the lard and butter into 
the flour. Rub the fat into the flour using your fingertips until 
the mixture resembles fine bread crumbs. Using a fork, stir in 
the cold water until the mixture comes together.
2. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured countertop and knead 
the pastry until quite elastic. (This is in opposition to how you 
normally handle pastry, but it is necessary for a strong enough 
pastry to hold the filling and keep its shape.) Wrap the pastry 
in plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator for 3 hours.
3. Preheat the oven to 325°F/160°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper.
4. Remove the pastry from the refrigerator and divide it into 
6 equal pieces. Roll each piece of pastry into a round roughly 
8 inches in diameter.85 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts5. Layer the meat and vegetables on half of each pastry, season-
ing each layer with salt and pepper as you go. Bring the other 
half of the pastry over the top to cover the filling, crimping the 
edges shut (see tip). Brush the top of each pasty with some of 
the egg wash and make a few slashes in the top with a sharp 
knife to vent.
6. Place the filled pastries on a the prepared baking sheet. Bake 
for 50 to 55 minutes, until the pasties are golden brown and 
the filling is cooked through.
Technique Tip: To crimp the edges, lightly brush the edge of the pastry 
with some water and squeeze tightly together. Using your index finger and 
thumb, twist the edges of the pastry over to shape, folding it over on itself 
and continuing down the edge until it is all crimped. Tuck the corners 
underneath to hold them in place.86 The Best of British BakingSteak and Mushroom Pie
You will find a good steak and mushroom pie offered at just about every pub 
across the length and breadth of the UK. Imagine tender meat and mushrooms 
in a rich gravy with a puff pastry topping. What’s not to love? You can make 
this a real feast with a mound of fluffy mashed potatoes and a cooked vegeta -
ble on the side. Serves 6
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  COOK/BAKE TIME: 2 hours 45 minutes
3 pounds (1360 grams) 
stewing beef, cut into 
1-inch cubes
3 tablespoons 
all-purpose flour
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 large onion, finely diced3 carrots, peeled and 
finely diced
2 celery stalks, finely diced
12 ounces (340 grams) 
button mushrooms (such 
as cremini or chestnut 
mushrooms), halved
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 cups (480 mL) good 
beef stock4 fresh thyme sprigs
1 fresh rosemary sprig
2 dried bay leaves
1 teaspoon sweet paprika
1 sheet ready-made 
all-butter puff pastry, 
thawed if frozen
1 medium free-range 
egg, beaten with 
1 teaspoon water
1. Toss the beef cubes together with the flour and salt and black 
pepper to taste.
2. Heat the oil in a large pan over medium-high heat. Add the 
beef in small batches and brown it on all sides. As the beef 
browns, transfer it to a bowl and set aside.
3. Add the onion, carrots, and celery to the pan drippings. Cook 
over medium heat until soft and very fragrant. Add the mush-
rooms and the garlic to the pan and cook, stirring occasionally, 
for about 5 minutes, until they begin to soften.
4. Add the stock, thyme, rosemary, bay leaves, and paprika. Return 
the beef to the pot, along with any juices that have accumulated, 
and stir to make sure everything is well combined. Cover tightly 
and simmer gently for 11/2 to 2 hours, stirring every now and 
then, until the meat is beautifully tender. If you think the liquid 
is reducing too much, add more stock.87 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts5. Uncover, reduce the heat, and simmer the mixture for an addi-
tional 20 minutes at a slow bubble to reduce and thicken the 
mixture slightly. Taste and adjust the seasoning as required. 
Remove and discard the bay leaves and herb stems.
6. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
7. Pour the meat filling into a large shallow casserole dish, 
spreading it out evenly.
8. Unroll the pastry and cover the filling with the pastry, crimp-
ing the edges decoratively all the way around. Cut a few slits in 
the top to vent and brush all over with the egg-water glaze.
9. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until the pastry is nicely puffed, 
cooked through, and golden brown. Remove the pie from 
the oven and allow to rest for about 10 minutes before serv -
ing. To serve, cut the pastry into squares. Spoon a portion 
of the filling onto heated plates and top each serving with a 
square of pastry.
Technique Tip: Cooking your meat in small batches will result in a nice 
golden-brown sear, which will add plenty of flavor to your finished dish.88 The Best of British BakingEccles Cakes
I first tasted these lovely pastries back in the 1980s. It was love at first bite. 
The simple recipe was given to me by a girl from the Northwest of England. 
Who can resist delicious little dried fruit–filled delicacies encased in flaky 
pastry? Not I! The original recipe comes from the town of Eccles, which is 
located in  Lancashire. Makes 2 dozen
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
3 tablespoons 
butter, melted
1/3 cup (45 grams) dried 
currants
1/3 cup (45 grams) raisins
6 tablespoons (75 grams) 
soft light or dark brown 
sugar, packed
5 tablespoons (65 grams) 
chopped mixed candied 
peel (see tip)Finely grated zest of 
1 medium orange
1/2 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon freshly 
grated nutmeg
All-purpose flour, 
for dusting2 batches Flaky Pastry 
(page 90)
1 medium free-range 
egg, beaten with 
1 teaspoon water
2 tablespoons whole milk, 
for brushing
3 tablespoons demerara 
sugar, for sprinkling
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Line a rimmed baking sheet 
with parchment paper and set aside.
2. Mix the melted butter, currants, raisins, brown sugar, candied 
peel, zest, cinnamon, and nutmeg in a bowl, combining them 
well. Set aside.
3. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll out the pastry on a 
lightly floured surface to 1/8 inch thickness. Cut out rounds 
using a 31/4-inch cookie cutter.
4. Place 1 heaping teaspoon of the filling in the center of each 
round. Brush the edges of each round with some egg wash, 
then bring them together in the center, wrapping up the filling 
and pressing the edges firmly together. Turn the discs over 89 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tartsand flatten them slightly between the palms of your hands 
until you have a little pastry roughly 2 inches in diameter. 
Place them 2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheet. 
Gather up and re-roll scraps of pastry as needed.
5. Brush the tops of each pastry with milk and sprinkle with a bit 
of demerara sugar. Using a sharp knife, cut 2 small slits in the 
top of each pastry.
6. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, until golden brown. Scoop off onto a 
wire rack to cool completely before serving. Store any leftovers 
in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
Ingredient Tip: You can purchase candied citrus peels whole and then 
chop them yourself. See page 76 for a recipe to make your own.90 The Best of British BakingFlaky Pastry
This is a quick and easy alternative to puff pastry and makes a great casing for 
pies, turnovers, and tarts. You can make it ahead and freeze for convenience. 
Makes 8 ounces (225 grams)
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1/8 teaspoon fine  
sea salt2 tablespoons fine  
granulated sugar (caster 
sugar) (if using for a 
sweet bake)3/4 cup (11/2 sticks/ 
170 grams) butter, 
softened
1/4 to 1/2 cup (60 to 120 mL) 
cold water
1. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Stir in the sugar, if using.
2. Divide the butter into 4 equal portions. Add one portion of 
butter to the flour mixture and incorporate it using a butter 
knife, along with just enough cold water for a soft dough that 
is not sticky.
3. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. Using a 
floured rolling pin, roll the dough into a rectangle roughly 
1/4 inch thick.
4. Using a pastry brush, brush off any excess flour from the sur -
face of the dough. Cut another portion of the butter into bits 
and evenly space over two-thirds of the surface of the pastry. 
Fold the pastry in thirds, bringing the end third without the 
butter to the center first and covering with the opposite end.
5. Press the edges together with your fingers and then give the 
pastry a half turn. Roll out again to a rectangle 1/4 inch thick.
6. Repeat steps 4 and 5 two more times until you have used up 
all the butter. Wrap in plastic wrap and chill in the refrigerator 
for 30 minutes, then proceed as directed in the recipe you are 
using it in. Alternatively, you can wrap the pastry tightly and 
freeze for up to 3 months. Thaw in the refrigerator overnight 
before using.91 Sweet and Savory Pies and TartsBakewell Tart
This delicious tart hails from a town in the Derbyshire region of the UK. It 
consists of a lovely puff pastry base filled with raspberry jam and a deli-
cious almond  frangipane, which is topped and baked with flaked almonds. 
Makes 1 (8-inch) tart
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 30 minutes
All-purpose flour, 
for dusting
1 sheet ready-made 
all-butter puff pastry, 
thawed if frozen
2 tablespoons rasp-
berry jam2 large free-range eggs 
plus 2 additional 
egg yolks
7 tablespoons (95 grams) 
butter, melted
1/2 cup (95 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)1/2 cup (50 grams) 
ground almonds
2 tablespoons flaked 
almonds, for sprinkling
1 tablespoon icing 
(confectioners’) sugar, 
for dusting
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Butter an 8-inch tart tin or 
flan ring.
2. Roll the pastry out on a lightly floured surface, using a lightly 
floured rolling pin, to a round large enough to line the tart 
tin (roughly 11 inches in diameter). Line the tart tin with the 
pastry, taking care not to stretch it (see tip). Trim the pastry to 
fit and flute the edges. Spread the raspberry jam over the pastry 
in an even layer.
3. Using a wooden spoon, beat together the whole eggs, egg 
yolks, melted butter, sugar, and ground almonds. Spoon the 
egg mixture into the tart tin and spread to cover the jam. 
Sprinkle the flaked almonds evenly over top.
4. Bake for 30 minutes, until the filling is firm to the touch. 
It should spring back when lightly touched. Cool com-
pletely, then dust with a bit of icing sugar and cut into 
wedges to serve.92 The Best of British BakingTreacle Tart
Treacle is another name for golden syrup, which is a much-beloved sweetener 
used in the UK. It has a unique flavor with almost a hint of lemon. This tart 
used to be made with dark treacle, which is like a very strong molasses, but 
you never see that being done anymore. Serves 8
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 35 minutes
12 ounces (350 grams) 
Sweet Short Crust 
Pastry (page 93)
2 cups (480 mL) 
golden syrup
Finely grated zest and 
juice of 1 medium lemon33/4 cups (225 grams) fresh 
soft white bread crumbs
1 pear or apple, peeled, 
cored, and grated
1 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)1 large egg yolk beaten 
with 1/2 teaspoon 
cold water
Heavy cream or vanilla ice 
cream, for serving
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
2. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll three-quarters of the 
pastry out on a lightly floured surface to a round large enough 
to line a 10-inch flan dish. Carefully transfer the pastry to 
the flan dish and gently knock the pastry into place using 
your knuckles.
3. Combine the golden syrup, lemon zest, and juice in a sauce-
pan. Warm gently, then stir in the bread crumbs, grated pear, 
and mixed spice. Pour over the prepared pastry.
4. Roll the remaining quarter of the pastry out to 1/4 inch thickness 
and cut into strips about 1/3 inch wide. Lay the strips in a lattice 
pattern on top of the tart, crimping the edges of the tart all the 
way around with the tines of a fork, and pressing the lattice 
strips into place. Brush the lattice and edges of the tart with 
the egg wash.
5. Bake for 35 minutes, until the pastry is crisp and golden brown 
and the filling has set. Serve warm, cut into wedges and topped 
with a drizzle of heavy cream or a scoop of vanilla ice cream.93 Sweet and Savory Pies and TartsSweet Short Crust Pastry
This basic pastry works well for all manner of sweet pies. Makes 1 pound
PREP TIME: 10 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour
Pinch salt
2/3 cup (150 grams) butter, 
cut into bits6 tablespoons fine  
granulated sugar  
(caster sugar) or icing 
(confectioners’) sugar1 large free-range egg 
plus 1 additional 
egg yolk
1. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Drop in the butter and 
rub it in using your fingertips to make a mixture similar to 
medium-fine dry bread crumbs. Stir in the sugar.
2. Beat the egg and egg yolk together. Add to the flour mixture 
and work everything together until it becomes a smooth 
dough, kneading briefly. Shape into a disk and wrap tightly in 
plastic wrap. Chill for 30 to 60 minutes prior to using.
Technique Tip: The number one cause of tough pastry is overhandling. A 
gentle touch is key when it comes to making a flaky pastry.94 The Best of British BakingBanoffee Pie
This scrumptious pie is a real favorite in the UK, quite similar to the refrig-
erator pies of North America. A digestive biscuit crust is topped with sliced 
banana, a rich caramel filling, and a layer of sweet whipped cream. Making the 
caramel filling does take a bit of time, but it is well worth it. The most diffi-
cult part is waiting for it to chill. You will need two baking dishes to make the 
bain-marie (water bath) for the caramel filling; one must fit inside the other. 
Makes 8 servings
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 4 hours to cool and chill  BAKE TIME: 11/2 hours
11/2 cups (135 grams) 
Digestive Biscuit 
crumbs (page 20) or 
graham cracker crumbs
10 tablespoons 
(11/4 sticks/280 grams) 
butter, softened2 (14-ounce/400 grams) 
cans sweetened  
condensed milk (not 
evaporated milk)
3 large ripe bananas
11/2 cups (360 mL) 
heavy cream1/3 cup (43 grams) icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons grated 
semisweet chocolate, 
for decorating
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.
2. Mix the crumbs and butter together for the crust. Press the mix-
ture evenly into a 9-inch pie plate. Bake for 5 to 8 minutes, until 
light golden brown. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool.
3. Reduce the oven temperature to 300°F/150°C.
4. Pour the condensed milk into a 9-by-13-by-2-inch glass baking 
dish. Cover tightly with aluminum foil. Place the covered dish 
in a larger baking dish or roasting pan. Add boiling water 
to the larger dish to come roughly halfway up the sides of 
the smaller dish. Carefully place both in the oven and bake 
for 11/2 hours.
5. Remove the dishes from the oven and carefully remove the 
dish containing the caramel from the dish containing the hot 
water. Uncover and set aside to cool completely.95 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts6. Spread half of the cooled caramel filling into the cooled 
crumb crust. Slice the bananas over the top and cover with the 
remainder of the caramel filling, spreading it evenly.
7. Whip the cream together with the icing sugar and vanilla 
until it forms soft peaks. Spread over the top of the filling 
and bananas. Sprinkle with the grated chocolate. Chill for 
several hours.96 The Best of British BakingCreamy Caramel Custard Tart
This old English recipe (sometimes called a gypsy tart) is said to have origi-
nated on the Isle of Sheppey in the county of Kent. It is rich and sweet. Other 
than the pastry, it contains only two ingredients and was often considered to 
be the highlight of school dinners back in the day! It does take quite a while to 
whip the brown sugar and the milk together, so be forewarned. This is when a 
stand mixer comes in very handy! Makes 1 (9-inch) tart
PREP TIME: 35 minutes  BAKE TIME: 40 minutes
All-purpose flour, 
for dusting
175 grams (about 
1/2 recipe) Sweet Short 
Crust Pastry (page 93)
12/3 cups (400 mL)  
evaporated milk  (not sweetened  
condensed milk)
11/2 cups (300 grams) 
soft light brown sugar, 
packed, or demer-
ara sugar11/3 cups (320 mL) 
heavy cream
Finely grated zest 
of 1 lemon
1. Butter a deep 9-inch tart tin with a removable bottom and 
set aside.
2. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll out the pastry on a 
lightly floured surface to 1/4 inch thickness. Line the prepared 
tart tin with the pastry, gently knocking in the edges with your 
knuckles. Leave an overhang (see tip). Place in the refrigerator 
to chill for 30 minutes.
3. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Remove the pastry from the 
refrigerator. Prick the pastry in a few places with a fork. Line 
the top of the pastry with parchment paper and then fill with 
pie weights or dried beans.
4. Bake for 20 minutes. Remove the parchment and pie weights, 
return the crust to the oven, and bake for an additional 5 to 
10 minutes, until the base is crisp and the pastry is light 
golden brown. Remove from the oven and trim off any excess 
pastry from the edge. Set aside while you make the filling. 
Leave the oven on.97 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts5. To make the filling, combine the evaporated milk and brown 
sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer. Whisk on high until the 
mixture becomes light and fluffy, about 20 minutes. (Alterna -
tively you can use an electric hand mixer.) Pour the mixture 
into the baked crust.
6. Bake the filled pie for 15 minutes, until risen and almost set. 
The surface of the tart will feel somewhat tacky, but the center 
should still have a bit of a jiggle. Place the tart tin on a wire 
rack and allow the pie to cool completely before serving.
7. When the tart is ready to serve, whip the cream with the lemon 
zest until it forms soft dollops. Cut the tart into wedges to 
serve and pass the whipped cream at the table.
Technique Tip: Do not stretch the pastry when you are moving it into 
your tart tin. This will help prevent it from shrinking when baked. I find 
it best to leave the pastry overhanging the sides of the tart tin and then 
trimming it off once baked.98 The Best of British BakingSavory Short Crust Pastry
This basic pastry is ideal for savory pies. Makes 14 ounces
PREP TIME: 10 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour
Pinch salt2/3 cup (150 grams) butter, 
cut into bits
1 large free-range eggScant 2 tablespoons 
(25 mL) water
1. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Drop in the butter and 
rub it in using your fingertips to make a mixture similar to 
medium-fine dry bread crumbs.
2. Whisk the egg and water together. Add to the flour mixture 
and work everything together until it becomes a smooth 
dough, kneading briefly. Shape into a disk and wrap tightly in 
plastic wrap. Chill for 30 to 60 minutes prior to using.
Technique Tip: The number one cause of tough pastry is overhandling. A 
gentle touch is key when it comes to making a flaky pastry.99 Sweet and Savory Pies and TartsHomemade Mincemeat
This is the tastiest mincemeat tart/pie filling. It is nice and fruity and beautifully 
spiced. Once you realize how very easy it is to make your own, you will never 
buy a jar of it again! Makes 1 pound (enough for about 3 dozen mince pies)
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 12 hours to rest
1 cup (150 grams) dried 
currants
3/4 cup packed 
(125 grams) raisins
1/3 cup (25 grams) blanched 
almonds, finely chopped
1 sweet apple, peeled, 
cored, and grated using 
the large holes of a 
box grater1/2 cup (50 grams) shred-
ded beef or vegetable 
suet (see tip)
1 knob preserved stem 
ginger, finely chopped 
(see tip)
2 tablespoons calvados 
(French apple brandy)1 tablespoon dark brown 
sugar, packed
1/4 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon 
ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
Finely grated zest and 
juice of 1 medium lemon
1. Combine the currants, raisins, almonds, apple, suet, ginger, 
calvados, sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, zest, and juice in a 
large bowl. You can use your hands to make sure everything is 
evenly mixed.
2. Cover the bowl with a clean towel and set aside on the counter 
for at least 12 hours in order to meld the flavors together. 
Transfer to a container with a tight-fitting lid and store in the 
refrigerator until ready to use.
3. Bring to room temperature prior to use.
Ingredient Tip: Suet can be purchased from any good butcher and in 
some grocery shops. It can also be purchased online. Alternatively, you can 
use an equal quantity of grated frozen vegetable shortening. Preserved stem 
ginger can be purchased online; try Opies Chinese Stem Ginger.100 The Best of British BakingMince Pies
These mini pies are very much a British Christmas tradition. Small, crisp, and 
buttery pastry cases filled with a delicious filling of spiced fruits and nuts, 
dusted or not with sifted icing sugar, always go down as a real treat during 
the holidays. You can use a ready-made mincemeat filling if you wish, but the 
pies are exponentially better if you make your own filling from scratch. It just 
wouldn’t be Christmas without a few dozen or more of these to munch on! 
Makes 24
PREP TIME: 25 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill  BAKE TIME: 25 minutes
21/2 cups (350 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
Pinch salt
1/3 cup (75 grams) cold 
lard, cut into bits1/3 cup (75 grams) cold 
butter, cut into bits
Ice water, as needed
11/4 pounds (560 grams) 
mincemeat, home-
made (page 99) or 
store-boughtMilk, for brushing
Icing (confectioners’) 
sugar, for dusting
1. Sift the flour and salt into a large bowl. Drop in the lard and 
butter and rub them into the flour, using a snapping motion 
with your fingertips, until the mixture resembles fine dry bread 
crumbs. Work quickly so the fat doesn’t melt into the flour.
2. Using a fork, add ice water, 1 tablespoon at a time, until the 
mixture forms a dough that leaves the sides of the bowl. Shape 
into a disk and wrap tightly in plastic wrap. Place into the 
refrigerator to chill for 30 minutes.
3. Preheat the oven to 400°F/200°C. Lightly butter 2 muffin tins.
4. Divide the pastry in half. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, 
roll half of the pastry out on a lightly floured surface to 1/4 inch 
thickness. Cut into 24 rounds using a 3-inch fluted pastry 
cutter. Fit a round into each hole of the muffin tins. (They don’t 
need to come all the way up the sides.) Fill each with 1 heaping 
tablespoon of mincemeat.101 Sweet and Savory Pies and Tarts5. Roll the remaining pastry out in the same manner as you did 
the first half. Cut out 24 rounds using a 21/2-inch fluted cutter. 
Brush the edges of each round with a bit of water and place 
them on top of the mincemeat-filled pastry cases, lightly press-
ing around the edges to seal.
6. Brush the tops with a tiny bit of milk and prick with a fork. 
Bake on the top rack for 25 to 30 minutes, until crisp and 
golden brown.
7. Remove from the oven and leave in the tins for 5 minutes, then 
carefully transfer to a wire rack to finish cooling completely. 
Dust the tops with icing sugar and store in a tightly covered 
container for at least a week, if not longer.102 The Best of British BakingTraditional Custard Tart
This delicate, rich tart generously dusted with nutmeg is best served at room 
temperature, where it has a soft and creamy texture. If chilled, it loses some of 
its magic and flavor. It is a wonderful treat. Makes 1 (8-inch) tart
PREP TIME: 15 minutes  BAKE TIME: 45 minutes
1 Sweet Short Crust 
Pastry (page 93)
2 cups (500 mL) whip-
ping cream8 large free-range  
egg yolks
61/2 tablespoons 
(78 grams) fine granu-
lated sugar (caster sugar)Freshly grated nutmeg, 
for dusting
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C. Butter an 8-inch tart tin or 
flan pan with a removable bottom.
2. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the pastry out on a lightly 
floured surface to 1/4 inch thickness. Carefully transfer the 
pastry to the prepared tart tin and gently knock the pastry in 
using your knuckles. Leave any excess pastry hanging over the 
edge of the tin.
3. Line the top of the pastry with parchment paper and fill with 
pie weights or dried beans. Place on a baking sheet and bake 
for 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and reduce the oven 
temperature to 250°F/120°C. Remove the parchment and 
beans. Trim off any excess pastry and discard.
4. To make the filling, put the cream in a saucepan and bring 
just to a boil.
5. Whisk the egg yolks and sugar together in a bowl. Slowly pour 
the hot cream over the egg mixture, whisking constantly. Pass 
through a sieve into a large measuring cup to remove any 
solids, then pour the mixture into the partially baked crust. 
Generously grate fresh nutmeg over the top of the tart.
6. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, just until the custard has set. It 
should still have a gentle wobble in the center. Cool to room 
temperature before serving.FPOFPO
105CHAPTER 6
Yeasted Breads
English Muffins  106
Chelsea Buns  108
Iced Buns  110
Hot Cross Buns  112
Old-Fashioned Hovis Loaf  114
Crumpets  116
Chelsea Buns, 108106 The Best of British BakingEnglish Muffins
These round, flattish yeasted breads are baked on a griddle pan or in a skil-
let. Once baked, they are meant to be split open with a fork and toasted. This 
method of tearing them open creates lots of nooks and crannies that, once 
toasted, crisp up nicely, perfect for your butter to melt into. Makes 8 to 10
PREP TIME: 20 minutes, plus 1 hour to rise  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
Scant 5 cups (675 grams) 
strong white bread flour, 
plus more for dusting
2 teaspoons fine granu-
lated sugar (caster sugar)21/4 teaspoons 
fast-acting yeast
11/2 teaspoons fine sea salt
Scant 2 cups (450 mL) 
lukewarm whole milk1 teaspoon fine cornmeal, 
for dusting
Canola oil, for greasing
1. Lightly dust a large baking sheet with flour and set aside.
2. Combine the flour, sugar, yeast, and salt in the bowl of a stand 
mixer. Whisk together to combine by hand. Begin to pour in 
the milk, slowly, in a steady stream, with the mixer on low to 
medium. Stop the mixer and switch to a dough hook. (See tip 
for electric hand mixer instructions.)
3. Knead the dough using the dough hook for about 10 minutes, 
until the dough is smooth and elastic.
4. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and, using a 
lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough out to 1/2 inch thickness.
5. Cut into rounds using a 3-inch cookie cutter, taking care not 
to twist the dough. Place the rounds on the floured baking 
sheet, leaving space between them to rise. Dust the tops with 
the cornmeal. (You can re-roll the scraps to cut more, but they 
won’t be as perfect to look at as your first cuts, so do try to get 
as many as you can from the first lot.)
6. Cover loosely with lightly oiled plastic wrap and set aside 
in a warm place to rise until they have doubled in size, 
about 1 hour.107 Yeasted Breads7. Lightly grease a griddle pan or a heavy-bottomed skillet with 
oil. Heat over medium heat until you can feel the warmth from 
the pan when you hold your hand about an inch over the top.
8. Place the rounds in the pan two or three at a time, then 
immediately turn the heat down to low. Cook on each side 
until golden brown and well risen, about 7 minutes per side. 
Scoop the muffins onto a wire rack to cool before splitting 
and toasting.
9. These will keep tightly wrapped or in an airtight container for 
up to 4 days. You can also freeze them, tightly wrapped, for up 
to 2 months.
Technique Tip: You can make these with an electric hand mixer if you 
wish. Just mix up to the kneading part and then finish them by tipping the 
dough out onto a lightly floured surface and kneading it by hand until the 
dough is smooth and elastic. Proceed as directed.108 The Best of British BakingChelsea Buns
These dense, fruited buns are as popular in the UK as cinnamon rolls are in 
North America. The buns were originally made and sold in the eighteenth 
century at the Chelsea Bun House in the Pimlico area of London. They are 
delicious served warm and buttered along with a nice hot cup of tea or 
coffee. Makes 9
PREP TIME: 30 minutes, plus 2 hours to rise  BAKE TIME: 30 minutes
12/3 cups (225 grams) 
strong bread flour, 
divided, plus more 
for dusting
21/4 teaspoons regular 
dried yeast
1 teaspoon fine granulated 
sugar (caster sugar)
1/2 cup (120 mL) warm milkPinch salt
1 heaping tablespoon 
lard, softened
1 medium free-range egg, 
lightly beaten
1/4 cup (50 grams) butter, 
melted, plus more 
butter for greasing and 
serving (optional)1/4 cup (50 grams) soft light 
brown sugar, packed
1/3 cup (50 grams) raisins
1/3 cup (50 grams) dried 
currants
1/3 cup (50 grams) sultanas
1/4 cup (25 grams) mixed 
candied peel
1/4 cup (60 mL) honey
1. Combine 1/3 cup (50 grams) of flour, the yeast, sugar, and milk 
in a bowl. Whisk together until smooth, then cover lightly with 
a tea towel and set aside in a warm place for 20 minutes. It will 
become quite frothy.
2. Meanwhile, combine the remaining 11/3 cups (175 grams) of flour 
and the salt in a separate bowl, and drop in the lard. Using your 
fingertips, rub the lard into the flour until well combined.
3. Stir the yeast mixture into the flour mixture along with the 
beaten egg to make a soft dough. Tip out the dough onto a 
lightly floured surface and knead for about 5 minutes, until 
you have a nice smooth dough. Shape into a ball.
4. Lightly oil a clean bowl and add the ball of dough, turning 
the dough to oil the top. Cover with a piece of plastic wrap 
and set aside in a warm place to rise until doubled in size, 
about 11/2 hours.109 Yeasted Breads5. Generously butter an 8-inch round cake tin.
6. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead 
gently to knock the air out. Using a lightly floured rolling 
pin, roll the dough out to a 9-by-12-inch rectangle. Brush the 
melted butter evenly over the surface of the dough. Sprinkle 
the brown sugar and dried fruits and peel evenly over the top, 
leaving about 1/3 inch free all the way around the rectangle.
7. Working from one long edge, roll the dough up tightly as if 
you were making a jelly roll. Brush the other long edge of the 
dough with water and seal carefully, pinching it shut. Cut the 
roll crosswise into 9 equal pieces. Place the rolls, cut-side up, 
in the prepared cake tin, placing one roll in the center and the 
remaining 8 around the outside. Cover the tin with oiled plas-
tic wrap and set aside in a warm place for another 30 minutes 
to rest and rise again.
8. Preheat the oven to 375°F/190°C.
9. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, until risen and golden brown. 
Remove from the oven and carefully tip the buns out onto a 
wire rack, right-side up.
10. Brush the honey over the tops of the buns while still 
warm. Pull apart and serve warm, with or without butter 
for spreading.110 The Best of British BakingIced Buns
Soft and yeasty with a delicious icing glaze and glacé cherry topping, these 
delicious buns were made famous in the 2003 British comedy film Calendar 
Girls. Children everywhere, both old and young, love them. Makes 8
PREP TIME: 20 minutes, plus 1 hour 45 minutes to rise  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes  
11/2 tablespoons butter
1/3 cup (80 mL) water
Scant 1/3 cup (70 mL) 
whole milk
2 tablespoons fine granu-
lated sugar (caster sugar)13/4 cups (250 grams) 
strong bread flour, plus 
more for dusting
21/4 teaspoons 
fast-acting yeast
1 teaspoon fine sea salt1 medium free-range egg
1/2 cup (65 grams) icing 
(confectioners’) 
sugar, sifted
1 tablespoon water
4 glacé cherries, halved
1. Combine the butter, water, milk, and sugar in a saucepan. 
Warm the mixture over low heat until lukewarm. It should not 
be hot to the touch. If it is too hot, you will kill the yeast. If you 
think it is too hot, let it cool to lukewarm.
2. Combine the flour and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted 
with a dough hook. Add the salt around the edges of the bowl. 
Pour in the milk mixture and the egg. Mix together on low for 
4 to 5 minutes to combine all the ingredients. Increase the 
speed to medium and mix for an additional 6 minutes, until 
smooth and satiny.
3. Scrape out the dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead 
for a few minutes. Transfer to a lightly oiled bowl. Cover with 
lightly oiled plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place to rise 
for 1 hour. The dough should double in size. (Alternatively, you 
can do this with an electric hand mixer, but it will take you a 
bit longer to get a smooth satin-textured dough.)
4. Lightly grease a rimmed baking sheet.111 Yeasted Breads5. Divide the dough into 8 equal pieces. (You can weigh the full 
dough on a scale, then divide by 8. Each portion should weigh 
the same amount.) Shape each piece into a round bun, then 
place them on the prepared baking sheet, seam-side down, 
leaving plenty of space in between each. Cover lightly with 
oiled plastic wrap and set aside in a warm place to rise for an 
additional 45 minutes. Again, they should double in size.
6. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
7. Bake for 7 to 8 minutes, until light golden brown and fluffy. 
They should be golden brown on the undersides also, and 
sound hollow when tapped on the underside. Transfer to a wire 
rack to cool completely.
8. Once completely cooled, whisk the icing sugar together with 
just enough water to give you a nice thick and sticky glaze 
icing. Dip the tops of the cooled buns into this icing, pop 
them back onto the baking tray, icing-side up, and place half a 
glacé cherry in the middle of each. Leave to set before serving. 
These are best eaten the same day.
Technique Tip: For optimum flavor, don’t glaze and decorate until you 
are ready to serve!112 The Best of British BakingHot Cross Buns
These spiced and fruity buns are an Easter tradition all over the UK, though 
they are available in the shops all year round now. Nothing beats the delicious 
flavor of a freshly baked hot cross bun, split, toasted, and spread with butter. 
These buns normally have a pastry cross baked into the top, but it is also quite 
acceptable to cut a cross on top if you prefer. They are glazed after baking 
with a water-sugar glaze. You can also pipe a cross on top with a thick glacé 
icing after they cool (see tip). Makes 1 dozen
PREP TIME: 30 minutes, plus 2 hours to rise  BAKE TIME: 15 minutes
For the buns
31/4 cups (450 grams) 
strong white bread flour, 
plus more for dusting
1/4 cup (50 grams) fine 
granulated sugar 
(caster sugar)
21/4 teaspoons 
fast-acting yeast
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon mixed spice 
(see page 8)
1 teaspoon ground 
cinnamon1/2 teaspoon freshly 
grated nutmeg
31/2 tablespoons butter, 
melted and cooled
2/3 cup (160 mL) luke-
warm milk
1/4 cup (60 mL) luke-
warm water
1 large free-range egg, 
lightly beaten
1/2 cup (75 grams) dried 
currants
1/3 cup (50 grams) 
chopped candied peelFor the pastry crosses 
(optional)
1/3 cup (50 grams) plain 
all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons butter
Water as needed
For the glaze
2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons granu-
lated sugar
1. Combine the flour, sugar, yeast, salt, mixed spice, cinnamon, 
and nutmeg in a large bowl. Mix them completely. In a mea -
suring cup with a spout, whisk together the melted and cooled 
butter, milk, water, and egg. Make a well in the center of the 
dry ingredients and pour in the wet, then add the currants and 
candied peel on top.
2. Mix with a wooden spoon to form a soft dough. Tip the dough 
out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead by hand for about 
10 minutes until you have a smooth and elastic dough. Shape 
the dough into a smooth ball. Add the ball of dough to an oiled 113 Yeasted Breadsbowl, turning to coat it with oil. Cover with oiled plastic wrap 
and set aside in a warm place to rise until doubled in size, 
about 11/2 hours.
3. Butter 2 rimmed baking sheets.
4. Tip the risen dough out onto a lightly floured surface and 
knead it gently for 2 to 3 minutes. Divide the dough into 
12 equal pieces. (You can weigh the dough on a scale and then 
divide it by 12. This is the weight each piece of dough should 
be.) Shape each piece into a round, poking any currants or 
peel that pop out back into the dough.
5. Place the buns spaced well apart on the prepared baking 
sheets. Flatten them slightly with the palm of your hand and 
cut a cross into the top of each one with a sharp knife. Cover 
lightly with greased plastic wrap and set aside to rise in a 
warm place until doubled in size, about 30 minutes.
6. Preheat the oven to 425°F/220°C.
7. While the buns are rising, you can make the pastry crosses, 
if you like. Put the flour in a small bowl and rub in the butter. 
Add only enough water to make a stiff dough, then roll out onto 
a lightly floured surface using a floured rolling pin. Cut into 
thin strips, no more than 1/3 inch wide. Moisten one side of the 
pastry strips and lay in a cross pattern over the top of each bun.
8. Bake the buns for 15 minutes, until golden brown. They should 
sound hollow when tapped on the bottoms when done. While 
the buns are baking, prepare the sugar glaze by gently heat-
ing the water and sugar together until the sugar dissolves. 
Brush this mixture over the hot buns as soon as they come out 
of the oven.
Variation Tip: To make a glacé icing to pipe crosses on top, whisk 
together 1/2 cup (65 grams) icing (confectioners’) sugar and just enough 
cold water to make a thick glaze. Pop this into a small resealable plastic 
bag. Cut a small part from one corner of the baggie and use this to pipe 
crosses onto the tops of the completely cooled buns.114 The Best of British BakingOld-Fashioned Hovis Loaf
This is a much-beloved whole-wheat bread in the UK. Typically, it is baked 
using strong white bread flour with the addition of wheat germ. A bit of dark 
treacle is added for sweetness, which also serves to give it a lovely brown 
color. There is an iconic advertisement for the store brand that shows a young 
boy walking his push bike up a steep cobbled street, a loaf of fresh Hovis 
bread in his basket. This vision never fails to tug on the heartstrings and make 
one long for an older, simpler time. Makes 1 loaf
PREP TIME: 30 minutes, plus 2 hours to rise  BAKE TIME: 30 minutes
Scant 11/4 cups (280 mL) 
lukewarm water
1 tablespoon dark treacle 
or blackstrap molasses11/2 teaspoons regular 
dried yeast
32/3 cups (500 grams) 
strong bread flour, plus 
more for dusting7 tablespoons (110 grams) 
wheat germ
11/2 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon canola oil
1. Combine the lukewarm water and treacle in a large measuring 
cup and stir to dissolve. Add the yeast and stir. Leave to proof 
for 10 minutes. The mixture should look nice and bubbly and 
have a definite yeasty fragrance.
2. Whisk the flour, wheat germ, and salt together in a bowl. 
Add the yeast mixture along with the oil and stir everything 
together into a soft dough. It should be a bit tacky.
3. Tip the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. Knead well 
for about 10 minutes, until you have a smooth, satiny elastic 
dough, adding flour as needed to keep the dough from stick-
ing. Shape into a ball and place in a lightly oiled bowl, turning 
to coat the top with oil. Cover with oiled plastic wrap and place 
in a warm place to rise until doubled in size, about 1 hour.
4. Generously butter an 8-by-4-inch loaf tin and set aside.115 Yeasted Breads5. Tip the risen dough out onto a lightly floured surface and 
knead gently for 2 to 3 minutes to knock out any air. Shape the 
dough into a loaf and smooth the top and ends. Place in the 
prepared loaf tin. Cover loosely with lightly oiled plastic wrap 
and place in a warm place for an additional hour to rise. At the 
end of that time, it should almost fill the pan.
6. Preheat the oven to 375°F/190°C.
7. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, until well risen and nicely browned. 
When done, the loaf should sound hollow on the bottom 
when lightly tapped. Tip the loaf out onto a wire rack and 
cool completely.116 The Best of British BakingCrumpets
Crumpets are small, round yeasted breads cooked on a griddle pan. Soft and 
spongy and filled with lovely holes, these are perfect for holding all that butter 
and jam spread on top. These are the perfect addition to a tea party! You will 
need 4-inch metal cooking rings to cook these. Makes 8
PREP TIME: 15 minutes, plus 1 hour to rise  BAKE TIME: 10 minutes
11/3 cups plus 1 tablespoon 
(330 mL) whole milk
1 teaspoon fine granulated 
sugar (caster sugar)12/3 cups (225 grams) 
all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon fine sea salt21/4 teaspoons 
fast-acting yeast
Canola oil, for greasing
1. Put the milk and sugar in a saucepan and heat gently over 
medium-low heat to dissolve the sugar. The milk should not 
be hot; it should only be lukewarm. If it gets too hot, allow it to 
cool to lukewarm. Remove the pan from the heat and pour the 
milk into a large measuring cup with a pouring spout.
2. Sift the flour into a bowl and whisk in the salt and yeast. Make 
a well in the center. Pour in the lukewarm milk and whisk both 
together until you have a smooth, lump-free batter. Cover with a 
clean tea towel and set aside in a warm place to rise for 1 hour.
3. When you are ready to cook the crumpets, preheat the oven to 
250°F/125°C. Heat a tiny bit of oil in a large heavy-bottomed 
nonstick skillet over low heat. Generously coat four 4-inch 
cooking rings with oil. Place them in the skillet. Spoon a heap-
ing tablespoon of crumpet batter into each ring.
4. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, until the surface of the crumpets are 
covered with tiny air bubbles. Once the bubbles begin to pop, 
remove the rings and carefully turn the crumpets over. The 
crumpets should be golden brown on the underside. Cook for 
1 minute longer.
5. Keep the crumpets warm in the oven while you cook the 
remainder of the crumpets, re-oiling the rings and the pan.FPOFPO
119Measurement Conversions
US STANDARDUS STANDARD  
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(LIQUID)2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1 ½ cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME  
EQUIVALENTS  
(DRY)⅛ teaspoon                     0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon                     1 mL
½ teaspoon                     2 mL
¾ teaspoon                     4 mL
1 teaspoon                     5 mL
1 tablespoon                     15 mL
¼ cup                     59 mL
⅓ cup                     79 mL
½ cup                     118 mL
⅔ cup                     156 mL
¾ cup                     177 mL
1 cup                     235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint                     475 mL
3 cups                     700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart                     1 L
½ gallon                     2 L
1 gallon                     4 L
WEIGHT  
EQUIVALENTS½ ounce                     15 g
1 ounce                     30 g
2 ounces                     60 g
4 ounces                     115 g
8 ounces                     225 g
12 ounces                     340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound                     455 g
FAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C)  
(APPROXIMATE)
OVEN  
TEMPERATURES250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°C120Resources
BOOKS
Mary Berry’s Ultimate Cake Book, Mary Berry, 1994, BBC Books
This was one of the first books I purchased when I moved to the UK in 2000  
and has been an invaluable resource for great classic recipes for cakes, biscuits, 
traybakes, scones, and more. I highly recommend.
Delia Smith’s Complete Cookery Course, Delia Smith, 1992, BBC Books
I received this book for Christmas from my husband in 2003. It is a wonderful 
resource for how to cook British, from soup to nuts and everything in between. It 
has excellent conversion tables as well.
New British Classics, Gary Rhodes, 1999, BBC Books
This was the first cookbook I purchased when I moved to the UK in 2000. It, 
too, has been invaluable in my journey toward becoming an accomplished 
British cook and baker. It features good, solid recipes of the old favorites with a 
modern twist.
Be-Ro Home Baked Recipes, Be-Ro Flour
This is a great basic baking book, covering scones, biscuits, cakes, pastry, pies, 
and all things in between. If you can get your hands on one of these, you have a 
treasure. Mine was a gift from a friend.121 ResourcesSHOPPING
Amazon has everything you need as far as baking-related materials and ingre-
dients are concerned and is an invaluable resource for baking pans and British 
ingredients.
Amazon.com
British Food Shop is a great source of British ingredients. It carries every -
thing from jams to spreads to essential baking ingredients, including suet, dark 
treacle, a variety of sugars and flours, and preserved ginger in syrup.
BritishFoodShop.com
British Corner Shop is also a great resource for British ingredients, carrying a 
wide variety of British goods and ingredients.
BritishCornerShop.co.ukAcknowledgments
To Callisto Media and Anne Lowrey, thank you so very much for affording me 
the opportunity to share my love of British baking with the world.
To my mother, and her mother, and her mother before her, generations 
of good cooks who fed their families well and who inspired me to want to do 
the same.
To my children, who were my guinea pigs throughout the years and upon 
whom I cut my culinary teeth.
To my father, sister, and brother who have always been my biggest fans, but 
especially to my father and mother, who gave me wings and encouraged me to 
use them. Family—it’s not a small thing. It’s everything.
About the Author
Marie Rayner is a retired professional chef, food blogger, and 
cookbook author. She began her culinary career working as a 
pastry chef at a hotel back in the 1970s, then took time off to 
raise a family. In 2000 she moved to the UK, where she worked 
as a personal chef for several years before retiring from the 
trade several years ago. In 2009 she started the award-winning 
food blog The English Kitchen (TheEnglishKitchen.co), where 
she shares her lifetime of cooking experience with tried-and-true recipes, along 
with many beloved and traditional British recipes. She does all the testing, so 
you don’t have to. Marie is the author of several cookbooks, including Recipes 
from the Big Blue Binder and  The English Kitchen: An Anglophile’s Love Note 
to English Cuisine. She created an award-winning recipe for the British Turkey 
 Federation in 2012, which went on to win a prestigious Turkey Award at the 
national level. She and her blog have been highlighted in The Times of London 
and the Canadian HELLO! magazine. Her motto is “Food doesn’t have to be com-
plicated to be delicious.”
