11PPePPcedata point was valuable. The coffee-and-cookie tasting 
party was particularly memorable: After ten kinds of 
coffee and twelve types of cookies, most of the guests 
were hovering off the ground from the sugar and caffeine 
overload. 
We completed a seventy-page business plan and secured
 
a brick-and-mortar restaurant space in San Francisco. 
After being denied capital from multiple sources, we 
drained the remainder of our savings and our retirement 
accounts to fund the construction and opening of the first 
American Grilled Cheese Kitchen. 
When you believe in magic, you throw caution to the 
wind; and we believed in grilled cheese.
Saying it was hard work is an understatement; we were 
on a shoestring budget and enlisted friends to help 
 
with drywall and painting, traded with artists to help with 
decorations, and lived off of ingredient samples while 
we developed the menu. Blood, sweat, tears, and LOTS 
of bread, butter, and cheese (and the occasional beer) 
is what went into the opening of our first store. But Nate 
and I, and our supporting cast, were united in serving 
a common mission, which we by then had defined: To 
serve the tastiest grilled cheese sandwiches using the 
highest-quality local and unique ingredients with the best 
possible service.
And that’s what we did.
We opened the first American Grilled Cheese Kitchen in 
May of 2010. I was the culinary director and champion 
grilled-cheese maker, with the official title “Commander 
 
in Cheese.” Nate oversaw all business operations, earn
-
ing the title “The Big Cheese.” The store was a smash 
success. We had no experience, but we had no fear. We 
learned everything as fast as we could and constantly 
strived for improvement. People lined up around the 
block to try our grilled cheese and smoky tomato soup, 
and to enjoy the Kitchen experience. Almost five years 
later, after dozens of menu revisions, expanded catering 
services, a close-to-fifty-person staff, three restaurants 
 
and more on the way, and now a cookbook, our wonder -
ful customers continue to line up and support our 
mission. They continue to enjoy the magic of our grilled 
cheese and comfort foods. It’s been the most fulfilling and gratifying experience of our lives. There’s nothing 
like the anticipation, the satisfaction of making one of 
our toasty, melty, buttery grilled cheese sandwiches for 
a customer and ultimately the smile earned after he or 
she bites into it. In many cases, these customers have 
become our friends—we host their wedding and birthday 
parties, make their child’s first grilled cheese, and bring 
treats to their dogs that are waiting on our patio. And we 
are grateful every day for their loyalty and support. 
In 2013, we opened our second location in San Francisco, 
a larger facility allowing us to expand our menu beyond 
our grilled cheeses, soups, salads, and baked treats. 
With additional kitchen facilities, we developed recipes 
for some classic comfort food dishes like buttermilk fried 
chicken and a B.E.L.T. sandwich (bacon, fried egg, lettuce, 
tomato, and Tapatío aioli, a house specialty). We also 
developed slow-roasted meat recipes, like our coffee-
 
rubbed pulled pork, which became excellent ingredients 
for grilled cheese sandwiches, mac ’n’ cheeses, soups, 
and other menu items.
The third outpost opened in 2015, and Team American, 
as we like to refer to ourselves, plans to open additional 
stores in San Francisco and the greater Bay Area.
If you can open a business, especially a restaurant, with 
the person you love most in the world, there is definitely 
magic there. Nate and I continue to complement each 
other, in work, in friendship, and in life. We got married in 
2014 and live in San Francisco with our awesome rescue 
dogs, McLovin (Mickey) and Tillamook (Tilly). We’re so 
excited to share our recipes with you. What a thrill! We’ve 
had so much fun with these recipes and we really hope 
you do too.
And yes, we still eat grilled cheese almost every day. 
With much hot, cheesy love,
Heidi and Nate12GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENWe get this question almost every day. There 
are a few simple rules—okay, suggestions—for 
crafting delicious grilled cheeses. 
USE GREAT INGREDIENTS 
This one may sound obvious, but it’s the most 
important place to start. Use the best-tasting 
artisan bread you can get your hands on, 
choose cheeses that you’d want to eat on a cheese plate, and select fresh, ripe, high-  
quality ingredients for the fillings and add-ons. 
A really good seasonal tomato fresh out of 
the garden or from the farmers’ market will 
taste better in any recipe than a mealy out-of-
season tomato with no flavor, and that’s true 
in a grilled cheese as much as anywhere. And 
don’t cut corners on the “secondary” ingre
-
dients either—use good-quality fresh butter Introduction
WHAT MAKES  
A GREAt
 
GRILLED 
CHEESE?13IntPIIIctiInor extra-virgin olive oil to create that perfect 
crunchy crust—the flavor will shine through. 
There are very few ingredients in most 
grilled cheese sandwiches, so make every 
one count.
Bread
What’s the most important part of a good 
grilled cheese, the bread or the cheese? Our 
opinion, though some may consider it heresy, 
is that the bread wins this showdown. Our 
go-to bread is a 
pain au levain
 (country-style 
French bread made with partial whole-wheat 
flour and natural fermentation, shaped into 
batards
, or oval loaves) made a few blocks 
from our first restaurant at Pinkie’s Bakery. 
Pinkie’s levain is a wonder to behold, slightly 
sour with great structure and a bit of tooth, 
crackling crust, and just the right touch of 
salt. Prowl your local small bakeries and find 
the gems made in your own neighborhood. 
For a great grilled cheese, the bread is best 
when it’s not perfectly fresh, so get a loaf of 
your favorite bread for dinner and make an 
outstanding sandwich with the remainder the 
next day. Buy unsliced loaves to cut yourself 
or have the bakery slice it to your specifica
-
tion, if you can; you want slices approximately 
½ in [12 mm] thick for the optimal bread-to-
cheese ratio.
Generally, you want to look for breads 
with a dense crumb and some chewiness to 
them; these breads will hold up best to butter -
ing and toasting, plus will be more durable if 
you have any wet ingredients like tomatoes 
or onions. Be careful when you use bread with some sugar, like honey whole-wheat 
or Hawaiian bread; the sugar will cause the 
bread to brown faster, so you will need to be 
on guard for burning. 
Our favorite breads for grilled cheese 
are listed below, and you can find 
descriptions of the breads in the 
Glossary on page 164: 
9-grain/multigrain
Brioche
Challah 
Focaccia
Italian loaf
Miche
Oat bread
Pain au levain
Pain de mie Pretzel rolls/bread
Pumpernickel
Rye, including light, 
dark, and marble rye
Semolina 
Sourdough
Whole-wheat/stone-
ground wheat/honey 
whole-wheat 
Butter
You can use salted or unsalted butter, com - 
pound butter (which is just a fancy name for 
butter with flavoring added in, such as garlic 
or herbs), margarine, olive oil, or even mayon
-
naise and it’s still a grilled cheese sandwich. 
There is a dizzying array of butter options on 
the market today: cultured, European-style, 
whipped, light, churned, ghee, even goat 
butter. We encourage you to try different alter
-
natives and see the effect they have on the 
sandwich, but we prefer high-quality regular 
sweet cream (uncultured) salted butter as 
our go-to standard for grilled cheese. Some 
purists will insist on European butter or ghee, 
which have higher fat-to-water ratios and are 14GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENmore expensive, but we find that we can’t tell 
the difference in the finished sandwich, and 
sweet cream butter is more readily available. 
Salt content can vary widely among salted 
butters, but not so much that you’ll be able to 
tell the difference in a grilled cheese. 
We use butter at room temperature so that 
 
it is easy to spread but does not soak into the 
bread. Our goal is a light crispy crunch just 
on the outside of the bread, so we butter just 
the side of the bread that will come in contact 
with the hot skillet, and we use butter very 
sparingly. Spread the butter with a butter or 
table knife, as thinly as you can. Don’t worry 
about trying to get the butter evenly spread 
across every corner; the butter will melt in the 
pan and take care of the edges. We prefer to 
butter the bread rather than melt the butter in 
the pan and then place the bread on top. That 
 
way the butter is less likely to burn, will be more 
evenly distributed, and will be less likely to 
soak into the bread, yielding a more evenly 
crunchy crust. 
We store our butter in the refrigerator 
and take out the amount we need about an 
hour before we’ll be using it. Just cut a chunk 
of butter off the stick and let it come to room 
temperature in a small dish. If you don’t have 
time to wait for your butter to soften, warm it 
in the microwave, checking every 5 seconds, 
until soft but not melted. If you accidentally 
heat it too much and it’s begun to melt, place 
the dish back in the fridge while you get your 
other ingredients ready and it should firm up a 
bit quickly. Usually it won’t matter which side of the 
bread you deem to be the outside, but if you 
are using slices from a 
boule
 or 
batard, 
one 
side of the bread is likely to be a bit smaller 
than the other side. Butter the smaller side 
and you’ll have a neater-looking sandwich. 
Cheese
Now that we’ve discussed the bread and 
butter, we can’t leave the cheese hanging. 
There are no hard-and-fast rules, but in gen
-
eral the best cheeses for grilled cheese are 
“semisoft” and “semihard” cheeses. We do 
use a couple of hard cheeses (e.g., Idiazábal, 
a smoked, aged sheep’s-milk cheese from 
Spain, and Parmesan), but they are usually 
grated and used sparingly for flavor because 
they don’t melt as beautifully as the semisoft 
and semihard. We also use some soft cheeses 
(e.g., chèvre and Brie), but they are very much 
the exception. We pair hard or soft cheeses 
with a good melting cheese to get that grilled 
cheese ooey-gooeyness. 
There are great melting cheeses from all 
over the world, made with every kind of milk—
cow, goat, sheep, and water buffalo. If you 
are slicing the cheese yourself, try to slice the 
semisoft and semihard cheeses about ⅛ in 
[3 mm] thick. (Cheese is easier to slice when 
cold.) Hard cheeses can be grated, or sliced 
very thinly, to facilitate melting. For simplici
-
ty’s sake, we call for “slices” of cheese in the 
ingredient lists, although we realize that not 
all cheese chunks are conveniently shaped 
to match a bread slice. For our purposes, one 15IntPIIIctiIn“slice” means enough to just about cover the 
surface of the bread in a ⅛ -in [3-mm] layer, 
and should weigh about ¾ oz [20 g]. START WITH A PLAN
If you want to design your own grilled cheese 
masterpiece, which we highly recommend, 
you will need to put some thought into the 
combination of flavors you put together. When 
we are building a new sandwich, we have a 
few tried-and-true techniques for coming up 
with combinations that work. Even with tons of 
practice, we’ve found that it takes an average 
of three rounds of experiments to get it just 
right, so expect to make a few sandwiches 
and try a few different ingredients. 
Plan A
Reimagine a favorite dish featuring cheese 
and turn it into a grilled cheese. We’ve turned 
pizzas (Hawaiian, margarita, pepperoni), 
pasta dishes (gnocchi Gorgonzola, butternut 
squash ravioli in brown butter and sage), and 
even salads (caprese, Greek) into grilled 
cheese sandwiches. You may need to tweak 
what goes where—for instance, we found 
we could get the sage flavor into the ravioli 
sandwich as a sage butter on the bread, and 
we roasted squash slices instead of using 
a purée, so the sandwich would have more 
texture and be less wet. 
Plan B
Turn any sandwich into a grilled cheese. 
Many of our most popular grilled cheeses are 
variations on other sandwiches that aren’t 
traditionally grilled cheeses. We’ve turned var
-
ious regional specialties, like Reubens, Italian 
Beefs, Muffalettas, and tuna sandwiches into 
grilled cheeses. The trick with this plan is to 
remove things like lettuce that won’t hold up Here is a list of good melting cheeses 
you can explore as you craft your own 
grilled cheese masterpieces. 
Asiago
Bel Paese
Blue
Brick
Brie
Butterkäse
Cantal
Cheddar, white 
or yellow; mild, 
medium, or sharp; 
young or aged
Cheshire
Colby
Comté
Crescenza
Double Gloucester
Edam
Fontina
Gouda, red wax, 
black wax, smoked, 
or aged; goat’s or 
cow’s milk 
Gruyère
Havarti (including 
with dill, horse
-
radish, or other 
flavorings) Ibérico
Jack, Monterey or 
Sonoma Jack (includ
-
ing with garlic, pep
-
pers, or herbs) 
Jarlsberg
Mahón
Manchego
Mimolette
Mozzarella
Muenster
Ossau-Iraty
Port Salut
Provolone 
P’tit Basque
Queso Oaxaca
Raclette
Roncal
Sage Derby
Scamorza (smoked 
mozzarella) 
Swiss
Teleme
Toma
Urgelia 16GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENwell and to make the whole sandwich drier. 
Most grilled cheeses wouldn’t be that awe
-
some if they weren’t cooked; they would taste 
dry. Typically, fresh lettuce, tomato, and mayo 
are added to sandwiches for moisture, but 
moisture is your enemy with a grilled cheese. 
Think about adding more cheese than the 
standard sandwich calls for (or adding cheese 
if it doesn’t typically call for cheese) and 
removing ingredients that might make the 
sandwich soggy. 
Plan C
Go regional. This strategy looks to traditional 
ingredients from a particular area and com
-
bines them in a grilled cheese. For instance, 
Morocco, New Mexico, California, and the 
Provence and Basque regions of France are 
all locations with unique herbs and spices, 
cheeses, breads, and other ingredients that 
we’ve explored. Pick your favorite regional 
cuisine and see if you can put traditional or 
unique flavors together in an interesting way. 
COOKING TECHNIQUES: GO LOW AND SLOW
The term grilled cheese  is actually a collo -
quialism for “griddled cheese”; we do not 
actually recommend grilling your cheese 
sandwich over an open flame on an outdoor 
grill. We use the traditional stove-top skillet 
method for the recipes in this book, but there 
are many other ways to cook a perfectly 
 
marvelous grilled cheese—almost as many 
ways as there are cheeses to try. 
Following, we describe a variety of 
options you can use in addition to the pan-  
frying technique in most of our recipes, but 
the rule that applies to all is to keep it low and slow. Keep the temperature down and 
cook the sandwich slowly. This is especially 
important when you start adding in fillings 
like meats and vegetables that might take 
some time to heat through. In fact, the more 
stuff you put in your grilled cheese, the lower 
you want the heat, so that you can melt the 
cheese and warm the fillings while the bread 
toasts, without risk of burning. 
Any of the following techniques work for 
the recipes in this book; we included some 
notes on which methods are better suited to 
which types of sandwiches.
Stove-Top Skillet 
We use the stove-top skillet method for the recipes in this book because it is the method 
familiar to most folks, and also because it 
requires the least amount of special equip
-
ment: All you need is a burner, a large skillet, 
and a spatula . . . and the spatula is optional 
if you’re reasonably dexterous with a fork or 
have well-callused fingertips. All burners are 
different. You’ll need to do some experimen
-
tation to figure out what the optimal settings 
are for yours, so we recommend starting at 
medium-  low heat and adjusting from there  
if you need to. Be aware that your skillet 
may get overly hot during preheating. You 
run the risk of burning your first sandwich 
if this happens. Generally it’s better to put 
your sandwich in when the pan is too cool 
than when the pan is too hot—the worst that 
will happen if the pan is too cool is that your 
sandwich will take a little longer to cook. If 
your pan is smoking by the time you’re ready 
to start cooking, cool it off by throwing in a 17IntPIIIctiInsplash of cold water, then quickly swirling, and 
putting your sandwich in as soon as the water 
evaporates. 
If you are cooking a grilled cheese with 
fillings, we recommend covering the pan 
with a lid. This holds in the heat and helps 
melt the cheese and warm the fillings faster 
and more evenly. The lid does not need to fit 
tightly; in fact, we often use a flat lid that is a 
little smaller than the pan, so the lid places 
just a little bit of weight on the sandwich while 
it cooks. This gentle pressure will help the 
bread make better contact with the pan sur
-
face and you’ll get more even and thorough 
bread toasting as a result. If you are making a
 
simple grilled cheese, or if you are cooking 
any of our breakfast grilled cheeses (which 
are cooked open-face before assembling), 
then the lid is unnecessary. 
Advantages:
 All you need is a flat pan 
and a stove. It’s easy to monitor and easy to 
clean up. 
Disadvantages: 
Sandwiches with a lot 
of stuff in the middle can take a long time to 
cook, and the bread can get burnt before the 
cheese is melted. You can only cook one or 
two sandwiches at a time. 
Electric or Gas Griddle
This method hardly needs an explanation, but 
there are a couple tricks to making reliably 
perfect grilled cheese on a gas griddle plate 
or electric griddle. Electric griddles are ideal: 
It’s easy to control the heat, the sandwiches 
are unlikely to get burned, and the portable 
nature of the electric griddle means you can 
make grilled cheeses anywhere you can run an extension cord. Heavy griddle plates 
designed to sit on top of stove-top burners 
also work very well, and just take a little more 
finesse to get and maintain the heat in the 
right zone. With either type of griddle, pre-
heat to medium (about 350°F [180°C] for the 
electric griddle) and cook the sandwiches 
about 3 minutes per side. If the sandwiches 
have a lot of stuff in them, cover them with 
 
a heatproof cover or place a baking sheet 
 
on top while they’re cooking to help retain 
 
the heat and put just a little pressure on the 
bread for even toasting. 
Advantages:
 Electric griddles are 
extremely portable, so you can make grilled 
cheese at a party, the office, or anywhere you 
have access to power. Thicker griddles heat 
very evenly so sandwiches will cook up with a 
nice even crust. With the larger area, you can 
cook more sandwiches at the same time than 
a skillet on a stove top.
Disadvantages:
 If you don’t own a 
 
griddle, you may not want to buy one just 
 
for this purpose. It can take some time for a 
thick griddle to heat up, and a thin griddle 
may cook unevenly. 
Panini/Sandwich Press 
Electric panini presses are, of course, engi - 
neered for making grilled cheese. You can 
use your panini press, pocket-style sandwich 
grill, or even a George Foreman Grill for all 
the sandwiches in this book except for the 
breakfast sandwiches. Because the panini 
press heats from both sides, the cooking time 
will be shorter and, of course, you do not 
need to flip the sandwich. Watch carefully and 18GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENdo not apply pressure to a grilled cheese in 
a panini press, or the hot cheese and fillings 
may smoosh out of the sandwich and create 
 
a stubborn mess on your press. There are 
many kinds of panini presses with different 
heat levels, so it may take some practice 
to figure out which setting on yours is ideal 
for the grilled cheeses in this book, but we 
recommend starting on the lower end of the 
thermostat, since many of our sandwiches 
have a lot of stuff in them to warm through 
without  scorching the bread.  
Advantages:  A consistently crunchy crust 
that is unlikely to burn, thorough and consis
-
tent heating of fillings and melting of cheese, 
and very little cleanup. If you’re cooking for 
one or two people, this is a great choice. You 
don’t need any special equipment or utensils, 
aside, of course, from the panini press itself. 
Disadvantages:
 You can only cook one or 
two sandwiches at a time, fillings may squish 
out, and the bread will be smooshed, which 
in our opinion is not the traditional grilled 
cheese profile. 
The Oven Combo Method 
The oven combo method is our go-to method 
when we are making grilled cheeses for four 
or more people. Using your oven and a skillet 
or griddle together, you can crank out four 
to twenty grilled cheeses in no time, which 
is why we specify this method for the Grilled 
Cheese Birthday Cake (page 90), which 
is a “cake” assembled out of twenty-four 
grilled cheeses. To use this method, place a baking sheet 
or a large cast-iron skillet in your oven on 
the center rack and preheat to 350°F [180°C]. 
Assemble your grilled cheeses open-faced 
on a cutting board while the oven is  heating.  
Place the cheese on top of each slice of 
bread and then the filling ingredients (if any) 
on top of the cheese, putting approximately 
equal amounts of ingredients on both halves 
of the sandwich. When your sandwiches are 
assembled and the oven is hot, transfer the 
open-faced sandwich halves to the hot baking 
sheet in the oven and cook for about 2 min
-
utes (less if the sandwiches just have cheese, 
possibly more if they are sandwiches with a 
lot of stuff on them), or just until the cheese is 
beginning to look melted. The bread will likely 
not be toasted enough, so you’ll need to finish 
the toasting in a skillet or on a griddle. While 
the sandwiches are in the oven, preheat an 
electric or gas griddle to medium, or place a 
cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  low  
heat. After removing the baking sheet with the 
sandwiches from the oven, close the sand
-
wiches by placing one half on top of the other, 
filling-side down, and then place the assem
-
bled sandwiches on the hot griddle or in the 
hot skillet on the stove top to finish toasting; 
the sandwiches will toast quickly, in under 
1 minute. Flip and toast the other side, cut in 
half, and serve immediately. If you are making 
a lot of sandwiches, say more than eight, this 
method works best with two people—one 
person manning the oven for melting and 
one person manning the griddle or skillet 
for toasting. 19IntPIIIctiInYou can use this method with the break - 
fast sandwiches that feature eggs; just cook 
the eggs in a nonstick skillet while the sand
-
wiches are in the oven melting, then replace 
the eggs with the open-faced sandwiches 
in the skillet, placing the cooked egg on top 
of the sandwich to rest while the bread toasts. 
Advantages:
 The best choice for speed 
and volume, and all the cheeses and fillings 
will melt evenly. 
Disadvantages:
 Difficult to get the timing 
right with a bunch of sandwiches going from 
oven to griddle, and a little tricky for one 
person to do alone; dirties several pans. It can 
be easy to overmelt sandwiches that just have 
cheese, like the Mousetrap Grilled Cheese 
(page 38) or Ultimate California Grilled Cheese 
(page 45); we recommend sticking to the 
stove-top method described in the recipes for 
these sandwiches. 
DON’T TRY THESE AT HOME
Our insurance company says we can’t actually 
recommend trying any of these techniques. In 
fact, they’ve asked us to actively discourage 
you from trying several of them. But we just 
have to share some of the more extreme ways 
we’ve cooked grilled cheeses. 
Old-Fashioned Sandwich Iron 
If you ever run across one of these, give it 
a try—they’re so cool, and you can make an 
amazing grilled cheese while camping! Sand
-
wich irons are antique tools used to cook a 
grilled cheese (or other hot sandwiches) over 
an open flame like a campfire or in a fireplace. Place the sandwich inside the iron and close 
tightly, squishing the sandwich as much as 
needed to get a tight seal. Cook the sandwich 
in the iron over the open flame until toasty 
and hot. It can be a bit of a trick to figure out 
when the sandwich is done and which part 
of the fire is best for this technique, so be 
prepared for a bit of trial and error. Also, sand
-
wich irons are usually pretty small (people had 
smaller appetites in those days), so don’t get 
too ambitious with the fillings. 
Waffle Iron 
A waffle iron is basically a panini press with 
dents, right? The grilled cheeses without 
fillings, like the Mousetrap Grilled Cheese 
(page 38) and the Basque Sheep Grilled 
Cheese (page 40) will cook up nicely in a 
 
waffle iron. Sandwiches with a bunch of 
fillings, especially wet stuff like tomatoes, 
will just make a mess or not heat all the way 
through. This technique is not recommended 
unless you’re really desperate for a grilled 
cheese, which, of course, is how we know 
about it. 
Clothes Iron
Yep, in a pinch you can use a clothes iron to 
make grilled cheese. It won’t make the best 
grilled cheese you’ve ever had, but it’s a 
great way to impress children. Set the iron to 
medium heat and do not use steam. Also do 
not expect to be able to use your iron on your 
clothes after attempting this feat, unless you 
really want to smell like grilled cheese.Break-
FASTIt’s true! You can eat a grilled cheese for breakfast. Just by 
 adding a fried egg, you can create fast, delicious, and filling 
breakfast sandwiches with every flavor profile you can imagine. 
The ideas for our popular breakfast grilled cheeses came from a 
couple of different directions. We found that we could add an egg 
 
in the middle of almost any sandwich on our lunch menu and 
magically it became “breakfast”; we also turned several traditional 
breakfast dishes into grilled cheeses. Huevos rancheros become 
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese (page 30). The old-fashioned 
Monte Cristo, a ham-and-cheese sandwich battered and fried and 
served with jam, has been modernized into the Sunday Brunch 
Grilled Cheese (page 32), a collection of savory-sweet grilled 
cheeses using eggy challah or brioche breads, which are battered 
and griddled and then stuffed with a variety of fruits and cheeses. 
If you are concerned about eating undercooked eggs, many 
groceries carry pasteurized whole eggs in the shell, or go ahead 
and burst the yolk with a fork before you flip it, and you’ll have a 
fried egg over-hard. A scrambled egg is also delicious in these 
sandwiches; just leave the scrambled egg a little soft, as it will 
keep cooking even after it is out of the pan.Break-23BPePkPPBtWant to up the ante (and the protein) on any grilled 
cheese? Add an egg. This is a fast and hearty break
-
fast sandwich that will definitely keep you satiated 
until lunch. If you assemble the uncooked sandwich—
without the egg—the evening before, then wrap it in 
plastic and refrigerate, you can make this in minutes 
in the morning and be out the door with a warm, 
gooey breakfast in hand. Just bring an extra napkin—
especially if you like your eggs over easy, like we do. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
2 slices rustic artisan whole-wheat or whole-grain 
bread 
1 slice medium or sharp Cheddar cheese
1 slice Monterey Jack or Sonoma Jack cheese
1 egg
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place both slices, buttered-
 
side down, on a clean cutting board. Place the Ched
-
dar on one slice of bread and the Jack on the other. 3) Using a wide spatula, transfer the breads,  
buttered-side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack the egg into the greased space. 
 
Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
4) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on  
your breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned 
and the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return 
them to the cutting board. When the egg white is 
mostly cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a 
silicone spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; 
it will still be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds 
longer, or until the egg white is fully cooked but the 
yolk is still soft. 
5) Slide the fried egg on top of the melted cheese 
on one bread slice and gently place the other bread 
on top, cheese-side down. Cut the sandwich in half, 
 
if desired, and serve immediately.Clas s ic B r ea k f a s t  
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  124
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENWho doesn’t love breakfast in bed? Especially when 
it involves a gooey, decadent grilled cheese. We 
developed this sandwich after trying an amazing 
fenu  greek Gouda at a cheese tasting event; fenu -
greek, a fragrant and soothing spice often used in 
curries, smells just like maple syrup when toasted. 
We went with the brunch theme and paired the 
 fenugreek Gouda with Barely Buzzed, a unique 
Cheddar made by the Beehive Cheese Co. of Utah 
that is rubbed with coffee and lavender, and added 
an egg and bacon—all conjuring a dreamy and 
 delicious start to the day. 
The recommended way to eat this sandwich 
is in your pajamas on a Saturday morning, while 
 watching cartoons. This isn’t a regular item on the 
menu at our restaurant, but we serve it at special 
events and it’s always a hit. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 slice fenugreek Gouda cheese 
1 slice Barely Buzzed Cheddar cheese 
 
(see Sources, page 168) 
1 egg
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained 1) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place both slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Place the 
Gouda on one slice of bread and the Cheddar on 
 
the other. 
3) Using a wide spatula, transfer the breads, 
buttered-  side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack the egg into the greased space. 
 
Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
4) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft. 
5) Arrange the bacon strips on top of the melted 
cheese on one bread slice, slide the fried egg onto 
the bacon, and gently place the other bread on 
 
top, cheese-side down. Cut the sandwich in half, 
 
if desired, and serve immediately. Brea k f a s t - i n- B e d 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  125
BPePkPPBtBrea k f a s t  P o p p e r  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
There’s some kind of alchemy that happens when 
you mix fats—cheese and egg yolks—with hot chiles. 
The chiles are tamed, the fat is cut, and everything is 
made more delicious. 
The Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese (page 68) 
was already on the menu and a staff favorite when 
a great idea was hatched. A couple of our cooks 
started adding eggs to the lunch sandwich and 
eating it for breakfast. Egged on, soon the Breakfast 
Popper became the de facto staff eye-opener of 
choice. Eventually we realized customers would like 
it, too, and put it on the menu, where it has attained 
a cult following. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 Tbsp chèvre (goat cheese), at room temperature
¼ cup [55 g] Apricot-Jalapeño Relish (page 155)
1 slice Monterey Jack or Sonoma Jack cheese
1 egg
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained 1) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place both slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread the 
chèvre on one slice of bread and the relish on the 
other. Place the Jack on top of the relish. 
3) Using a wide spatula, transfer the breads, 
buttered-  side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack the egg into the greased space. 
 
Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
4) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft.
5) Arrange the bacon strips on top of the melted 
Jack, slide the fried egg onto the bacon, and gently 
place the other bread on top, cheese-side down. 
Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately. 26
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENFarm e r’s B r e a k f a s t  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  2
A hearty greeting for waker-uppers in any field, the 
much-beloved classic combo of home fries, bacon, 
eggs, and toast with butter transforms beautifully into 
a perfect breakfast sandwich. A pinch of pungent 
fresh chives pairs so well with these flavors, I couldn’t 
resist adding them to the grilling butter—they also 
contribute a touch of bright green to balance the 
warm palette of Cheddar and roasted potatoes. 
I know, potatoes in a grilled cheese sandwich 
may seem a little weird. But trust me, the textures 
work together wonderfully, and the sturdy potato 
slices add a nice structure to the sandwich and help 
hold everything together. 
1 small waxy-skinned potato such as Yukon gold, 
scrubbed and cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] rounds
1 tsp olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
4 fresh chives, minced or snipped
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
4 slices medium or sharp Cheddar cheese
2 eggs
4 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained 1) Heat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Coat a baking 
sheet with nonstick cooking spray or line it with 
parchment paper. 
2) In a bowl, combine the potato slices with the 
olive oil and a pinch each of salt and pepper and toss 
gently until the potatoes are evenly coated. Spread 
the potatoes in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet. Roast until cooked through and starting to 
brown in spots, about 15 minutes. Set aside to cool. 
(Store, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. 
Reheat for about 20 seconds in a microwave oven 
before using.) 
3) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat.
4) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and 
chives until well blended. 
5) Spread half the chive butter on one side of two 
of the bread slices, dividing it evenly. Place both 
slices, buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. 
Place one slice of Cheddar on each bread slice and 
then place three or four warm potato slices on top of 
the cheese on one slice of bread. 
6) Using a wide spatula, transfer the two breads, 
buttered-  side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack one of the eggs into the greased 
space. Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 27
BPePkPPBt7) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft.
8) Arrange two of the bacon strips on top of the 
potatoes, slide the fried egg onto the bacon, and 
gently place the other bread on top, cheese-side 
down. Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve. 
Repeat to cook and assemble the second sandwich. 
(Save any leftover potatoes for another use.)28
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBrea k f a s t  Pi g l e t 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  2
Our popular breakfast sandwiches all started with the 
Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese: One hungry morning 
I had the idea of adding an egg to the Piglet Grilled 
Cheese (page 69) for my own breakfast, and 
ta-da—
warm, melty magic. Apples, ham, and rosemary are 
already best friends with sharp Cheddar cheese, 
and the rich egg just puts the whole sandwich over 
the top. One of our favorite customers likes his 
with oven-roasted tomatoes, and that became our 
second-favorite addition to this sandwich—tomato 
lovers, give it a try!
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
1 tsp minced fresh rosemary or ½ tsp dried 
rosemary, crumbled
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
2 Tbsp Apple Mustard (page 160)
4 slices mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar cheese
4 oz [115 g] thinly sliced ham
2 eggs
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
rosemary until well blended.3) Spread half the rosemary butter on one side of 
two of the bread slices, dividing it evenly. Place both 
slices, buttered-side down, on a clean cutting board. 
Spread 1 Tbsp of the apple mustard on one slice of 
bread. Layer one slice of the Cheddar and half of the 
ham on top of the mustard. Arrange another slice of 
the Cheddar on the other piece of bread. 
4) Using a wide spatula, transfer the two breads, 
buttered-  side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack one of the eggs into the greased 
space. Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
5) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft.
6) Slide the fried egg on top of the ham and gently 
place the other bread on top, cheese-side down. Cut 
the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve. Repeat to 
cook and assemble the second sandwich.29BPePkPPBtWell, technically (and happily) the eggs aren’t green—
the beautiful marbled hue of sage-flavored Derby 
cheese supplies the color, and in a very tasty way. 
I came up with this special to celebrate Dr. Seuss Day 
(March 2). The whole staff at the restaurant came to 
work in pajamas, and I made the mistake of wearing 
a footie onesie, which was a problem on two fronts: 
It got astonishingly hot in the flannel fabric, and the 
feet were not exactly slip-proof—I slid around the 
kitchen all day. I resolved that next time I would 
wear my favorite Wonder Woman pajamas; they 
have much better air flow. 
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
1 tsp minced fresh sage or ½ tsp dried rubbed sage
4 slices challah or 
pain de mie 
4 slices sage Derby cheese 
4 oz [115 g] thinly sliced ham
2 eggs 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and sage 
until well blended. 3) Spread half the sage butter on one side of two 
of the bread slices, dividing it evenly. Place both 
slices, buttered-side down, on a clean cutting board. 
Place one slice of the Derby on each bread slice, 
then lay half of the ham on top of the cheese on 
 
one slice. 
4) Using a wide spatula, transfer the two breads, 
buttered-side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack one of the eggs into the greased 
space. Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
5) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft.
6) Slide the fried egg on top of the ham and gently 
place the other bread on top, cheese-side down. Cut 
the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve. Repeat to 
cook and assemble the second sandwich.Gree n E gg s  a n d H a m  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  230GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENHuev o s Ro l l a nd o  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  4
Huevos rancheros in the form of a grilled cheese? 
Bueno!
 Rollando is the middle name of one of the 
cooks who helped us develop this sandwich, so we 
named it after him. It’s a great savory brunch option, 
or try breakfast for dinner and serve it in the  evening. 
Adjust the level of spicy heat to your own taste by 
using mild—or thermonuclear—hot sauce. You’ll 
 
want to serve this sandwich with a knife and fork—
 
it gets messy! 
BLACK BEAN RANCHERO MIX 
1 tsp olive oil
½ small yellow onion, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tsp ground cumin
½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
One 15-oz [425-g] can black beans, drained 
and rinsed 
One 7-oz [198-g] can ranchero sauce 
(salsa 
ranchera)
½ tsp hot sauce, or more to taste2 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
½ tsp chipotle chile powder
8 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
8 slices pepper Jack or habanero Jack cheese
1 small ripe plum tomato, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
4 eggs
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 ripe avocado, preferably Hass, pitted, peeled, and 
cut into slices about ¼ in [6 mm] thick
Sour cream for topping 
Pico de gallo 
or other salsa of your choice for 
serving
1) To make the black bean ranchero mix: In a small 
saucepan over medium heat, warm the olive oil. Add 
the onion and sauté until translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. 
Stir in the garlic, cumin, salt, and pepper and sauté 
for 1 minute longer. Stir in the beans, ranchero sauce, 
and hot sauce and turn the heat to low. Simmer until 
the mixture is thickened, about 10 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. Cover to keep warm and set aside. 
(Store, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. 
Reheat for about 20 seconds in a microwave oven 
before using.) 31BPePkPPBt2) Heat a nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
3) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and 
chipotle chile powder until well blended.
4) Spread the chipotle butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place two of the slices, 
buttered-side down, on a clean cutting board. Place 
one slice of the pepper Jack on each. Spoon about 
¼ cup [75 g] of the ranchero bean mix on top of the 
Jack on one slice and sprinkle one-fourth of the 
diced tomato on top of the beans. 
5) Using a wide spatula, transfer the two breads, 
buttered-  side down, to the hot skillet. Coat a clear 
area in the pan with nonstick cooking spray, then 
carefully crack one of the eggs into the greased 
space. Sprinkle the egg with salt and pepper. 
6) While the egg is cooking, keep an eye on your 
breads. When the bottoms are nicely browned and 
the cheese is melted, about 2 minutes, return them 
to the cutting board. When the egg white is mostly 
cooked through, carefully flip the egg with a silicone 
spatula. (Don’t worry if you break the yolk; it will still 
be delicious.) Cook for about 30 seconds longer, 
or until the egg white is fully cooked but the yolk is 
still soft.7) Slide the fried egg on top of the tomato, top 
with one-fourth of the avocado slices, and gently 
place the other bread on top, cheese-side down. 
Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and top with a 
dollop of sour cream. Repeat to cook and assemble 
the remaining sandwiches. Serve, passing the 
pico 
de gallo
 at the table.32GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENSund a y B ru n c h 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  4
Inspired by the magnificent Monte Cristo—a ham-and-  
cheese sandwich that is battered and fried and then 
dusted with powdered sugar and served with maple 
syrup or jam—I experimented with different breads, 
flavorings, fruits, cheeses, and garnishes to make a 
French toast–style sandwich that is uniquely ours. 
For the essential bread itself, I found that marrying 
slightly dry slices of brioche loaf with a thick batter 
enriched with butter, vanilla, and flour yields both a 
 
nice, crisp and dry finish on the outside of the cooked 
sandwich and a perfect custardy consistency on 
 
the inside. 
Following are three of our favorite variations 
for this fabulous assembly—merely a hint at the wide 
range of different sweet and savory fillings that can 
make for a very sophisticated brunch sandwich. 
One 1-lb [455-g] brioche or challah loaf, cut into 
 
8 thick slices 
¾ cup [180 ml] whole milk
1 egg, lightly beaten
4 Tbsp salted butter; 2 Tbsp melted, 2 Tbsp at 
room temperature
2 tsp vanilla extract
2 tsp granulated sugar
½ cup [60 g] all-purpose flour
¼ tsp kosher salt 4 oz [115 g] Brie or triple crème cheese, thinly sliced 
8 ripe strawberries, hulled and thinly sliced
Confectioners’ sugar for dusting
Brown Sugar Bourbon Sauce (page 35) for drizzling
1) Arrange the bread slices on a large baking sheet 
and let dry while preparing the other ingredients. 
2) In a medium bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, 
melted butter, and vanilla. Add the granulated sugar, 
flour, and salt and whisk to combine. Scrape the 
batter into a shallow pan, such as a pie dish or cake 
pan. Set aside.
3) Heat a stove-top griddle pan or a large cast-iron 
skillet over medium-  low heat, or heat an electric 
griddle to 350°F [180°C].
4) When the griddle is hot, nestle two slices of the 
bread in the batter and let soak for 5 seconds, then 
carefully flip and soak on the second side for another 
5 seconds. Transfer the soaked breads to a clean 
plate. Melt ½ Tbsp of the room-temperature butter 
on the hot griddle and add both pieces of the soaked 
bread. Cook until the first sides are nicely browned 
and completely dry to the touch, about 3 minutes. 
Using a wide spatula, carefully turn the breads. 
CONT’D34GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN5) While the second sides are cooking, arrange 
one-fourth of the Brie and one-fourth of the straw -
berries on top of one piece of bread. When the 
second sides are nicely browned and the Brie is 
 
just softened, use the spatula to transfer the bread 
with the cheese and strawberries to a platter and 
gently place the other cooked bread on top. Cover 
loosely with aluminum foil and place in a low oven 
to keep warm. Repeat to cook and assemble the 
remaining sandwiches. 
6) Place each sandwich on a plate; cut in half, if 
desired; dust with confectioners’ sugar; drizzle with 
the bourbon sauce; and serve immediately.Variations 
Chèvre and Fig Chutney:  Substitute 6 Tbsp [85 g] 
room-temperature chèvre (goat cheese) for the Brie 
and ½ cup [110 g] fig chutney for the strawberries.
Cristo Hispanico:
 Substitute 3 oz [85 g] thinly sliced 
Manchego cheese for the Brie and pile 3 oz [85 g] 
shaved or thinly sliced 
Jamón
 Serrano,
 prosciutto, 
 
or speck on top; substitute ¼ cup [55 g] pumpkin-
 
orange marmalade for the strawberries. Garnish with 
fresh raspberries.
Honey Pot:  Substitute ¼ cup [55 g] room-  
temperature chèvre and 3 oz [85 g] shaved or thinly 
sliced Carmody cheese for the Brie and top with 
 
3 oz [85 g] thinly sliced French-style ham. Substitute 
¼ cup [55 g] tomato jam for the strawberries. There 
is no honey in this sandwich; the name “Honey Pot” 
refers to the category in a grilled cheese competition 
that this sandwich won. 35
BPePkPPBtbrown sugar-bourbon 
sauce
MPkeB  P bIIt 1½ c IpB [360 ml]
We use this incredibly easy and delicious dessert sauce on our bread pudding 
and Sunday Brunch Grilled Cheese sandwiches. Drizzle it over ice cream, cheese
-
cake, pancakes, or waffles for a sophisticated treat.
 
 Mak e this sauce your own! Instead of bourbon, feel free to substitute rum, 
rye, amaretto, orange brandy, or applejack (apple brandy) for different flavors.
1 cup [200 g] packed dark 
 
brown sugar
1/2 cup [110 g] salted butter, 
 
at room temperature
1/2 cup [120 ml] heavy cream
2 Tbsp bourbon
2 tsp vanilla extract1) In a small saucepan over medium-  
low heat, melt the brown sugar and 
butter together, whisking constantly 
until smooth.
2) Turn the heat to low and carefully 
add the cream, bourbon, and vanilla 
(the mixture may boil up at this point, 
so add the liquids slowly and keep 
whisking constantly). Bring the sauce 
to a simmer and cook for 5 minutes, 
whisking occasionally, or until slightly 
thickened. Remove from the heat and 
let the sauce cool for 5 to 10 minutes 
before using. 
3) Store in an airtight con  t ainer in 
the refrigerator for up to 1 month. 
Reheat in a microwave when you’re 
ready to serve.
GRILLED
CHEESE
SAND WICHESYou could say our tastes became more sophisticated 
as Nate and I grew up, in our own kitchen and as chefs and 
restaurateurs, but we never outgrew our love of grilled cheese. 
In this chapter, we have included our favorite grilled cheese 
recipes, ranging from the simple and traditional Mousetrap Grilled 
Cheese (page 38) to grown-up variations like the Moroccan Chicken 
Grilled Cheese (page 58) topped with exotic spices and a spread 
of Castelvetrano olives and preserved Meyer lemons. There are 
grilled cheeses you can make in a few minutes using ingredients 
from a decent corner store, and also more adventurous options that 
take some preparation and specialty foods shopping but will reward 
you with a unique grilled cheese experience. 
Grilled cheese is a forgiving dish. We encourage you to make 
substitutions and customizations, based on what ingredients are 
available to you and also your own tastes. If a particular bread 
or cheese that we specify can’t be found, look for something 
similar and you’ll likely get great results. Quantities of ingredients 
can also be adjusted; if the loaf of bread you’re using yields 
slices that are larger or smaller than average, you may need 
more or less cheese, butter, or fillings. 38GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMous e t r a p
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
The Mousetrap Grilled Cheese is deceptively 
simple—bread, butter, cheese—but we spent more 
time developing this sandwich than any other. When 
we started working on this dish, the goal was to 
differentiate our definitive grilled cheese from every 
other rendition out there, including your grandma’s. 
It had to be nostalgic, familiar, perfectly gooey, and 
perfectly toasted, and not greasy but with a distinct 
buttery-ness. 
We decided to build a better  mousetrap—h ence 
the name. We tested a dozen breads, two dozen 
cheeses, and three kinds of butter. We experimented 
with mayonnaise (which will work in place of the but
-
ter, if that’s all you have), buttering the inside of the 
bread, cooking the sandwich open-faced, shredding 
the cheese, slicing the cheese—every iteration you 
can imagine—until we felt we had created the perfect 
monument to bread, cheese, and Grandma. Now we 
serve more Mousetraps than anything else on the 
menu. Snap. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices California sourdough bread 
1 slice medium Cheddar cheese
1 slice Havarti cheese
1 slice Monterey Jack cheese 1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, buttered-  side 
down, on a clean cutting board. Layer the Cheddar, 
Havarti, and Jack on top. Finish with the second slice 
of bread, buttered-  side up .
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 2 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.39GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB
Make it Your Own
At the restaurant, we offer a variety of substitutions and add-
ons, and many of our regular customers have their own favorite 
 combinations for the Mousetrap as well as other customizations 
of sandwiches. I encourage you to experiment with different breads, cheeses, and add-ons. Below is a list of suggestions to 
get you started. 
Breads: 
Pain de mie,
 whole wheat, multigrain, high-quality white, 
rustic sourdough, or levain.
Cheeses:
 Mild or sharp Cheddars, garlic or pepper Jack, dill- 
 
or other flavored Havarti, mild fontina, Comté, Gouda. A com-
 
bination of semihard and semisoft cheeses is ideal.
Fillings:
 Add any of these fillings between the Cheddar and 
Havarti—sautéed arugula or spinach; sliced fresh or oven-roasted 
tomatoes; tomato or onion jam; cooked bacon; sliced ham; sliced 
roast beef; sliced roast chicken; mustard; bread ’n’ butter pickles; 
roasted bell peppers; fresh, pickled, or canned diced jalapeños; 
grilled or caramelized onions; thinly sliced green apples. 40GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBasq u e S h e e p  
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1  
P’tit Basque is a sheep’s-milk cheese made in 
France’s Pyrenees Mountains. It’s sweet and creamy 
with nutty flavors, and melts beautifully. Ossau-Iraty, 
another semihard sheep’s-milk cheese from the 
Basque region, is a substitution 
très bon.
 With a 
pinch of herbes de Provence mixed into the butter, 
eating this sandwich is like going on a quick trip to 
France. Enjoy with a chilled glass of French rosé. 
You can use store-bought herbes de Provence if you 
wish, but it’s surprisingly easy to make your own, and 
this versatile spice mix can be used to dress up many 
other dishes.
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
¼ tsp Herbes de Provence (facing page) 
1 tsp wildflower honey
1 tsp Dijon mustard 
2 slices French bread 
2 oz [55 g] P’tit Basque or Ossau-Iraty cheese, 
sliced 1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat. 
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
herbes de Provence until well blended. In another 
small bowl, stir together the honey and mustard. 
3) Spread the herbes de Provence butter on one 
side of each bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place both 
slices, buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. 
Spread the honey mustard on one slice. Place the 
P’tit Basque on top. Finish with the second slice of 
bread, buttered-  side up . 
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 2 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.41GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBHerbes de Provence 
MPkeB  P bIIt ¼ c Ip [15 g]
Herbes de Provence is a blend of herbs that grow (as you may have guessed) in 
Provence. The components and formulation vary, but thyme, savory, and lavender 
are almost always included, and these fresh herbal flavors are interesting, refresh
-
ing, and satisfying in a grilled cheese. You can also use herbes de Provence on 
grilled fish or meats, in vegetable stews, or in salad dressings, among many uses. 
2 tsp dried thyme
2 tsp dried rosemary
2 tsp dried lavender buds
1 tsp fennel seeds
2 tsp dried oregano
2 tsp dried savory
2 tsp dried marjoram
1 tsp dried basil1) Combine the thyme, rosemary, 
laven  der buds, and fennel seeds in a 
mortar and grind to a coarse powder 
using a pestle, or grind in a spice 
grinder or a coffee grinder dedicated 
to spices. (We use a dedicated coffee 
grinder for this purpose, but you can 
use your regular coffee grinder and 
just wipe it out carefully before and 
after grinding the herbs.) 
2) In a small bowl, stir together 
the ground herbs, oregano, savory, 
marjoram, and basil until thoroughly 
blended. 
3) Store in an airtight container in a 
cool, dark place for up to 3 months. 
42GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMac ’n’ C h ee s e 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  8
This sandwich has blown many a ten-year-old’s mind. 
“Mac ’n’ cheese . . . in a grilled cheese!?!” It sounds 
a little crazy, but it’s a lot delicious. Because the 
rich mac filling is chilled in a thin layer on a baking 
sheet, the recipe isn’t easily scaled down to one or 
two servings; but you don’t need to use all the mac 
at once. Well-wrapped, it will keep for up to 3 days 
in the refrigerator or up to 1 month in the freezer, 
so portion it individually and blow minds at your 
own pace.
MAC ’N’ CHEESE
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta  
of your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper 
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream 
1 lb [455 g] cheese (any combination of Monterey 
Jack, Cheddar, Colby, fontina, or Gouda), shredded4 Tbsp [55 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1 tsp garlic powder 
16 slices square sourdough, whole-wheat, or other 
sandwich loaf bread 
8 slices mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar cheese
8 slices Monterey Jack or Colby Jack cheese
1) To make the mac ’n’ cheese: Bring a medium 
saucepan of generously salted water (so it tastes like 
seawater) to a boil over high heat. Add the pasta and 
stir immediately. Boil the pasta, stirring occasionally, 
just until al dente, 8 to 10 minutes or according to the 
package directions (the pasta should be  tender but 
still chewy, not mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander 
and set aside. 
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 
powder, salt, black pepper, and cayenne pepper 
 
and set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over low heat and add the butter. When the butter 
is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, whisking 
often, until the mixture is beginning to brown and 
has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 minute. Watch 
carefully so it does not burn. 
CONT’D44GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the 
butter-flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking 
constantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. Add the cheese gradually while stirring 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon or 
silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese has melted into 
the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta. 
5) Line a 9-by-13-in [23-by-33 -cm] rimmed baking 
sheet with parchment paper (or aluminum foil, in 
a pinch). Coat the parchment paper with nonstick 
 cooking spray, then pour the warm mac ’n’ cheese 
into the prepared baking sheet and spread evenly with a spatula. Coat another piece of parchment 
paper with cooking spray and place, oiled-side down, 
directly on the surface of the mac ’n’ cheese. Refrig
-
erate until cool and firm, about 1 hour. 
6) Heat a large cast-iron or nonstick skillet over 
medium-  low heat.
7) In a small bowl, stir together the 4 Tbsp [55 g] 
butter and garlic powder until well blended. Set aside.
8) Remove the mac ’n’ cheese from the refriger - 
ator and peel off the top layer of parchment paper. 
Carefully cut into eight equal pieces. 
9) Spread ¾ tsp of the garlic butter on one side of 
each bread slice. Place half of the slices, buttered-
 
side down, on a clean cutting board. Top each with 
one slice of Cheddar, then one piece of the mac ’n’ 
cheese. (Transfer from the baking sheet by  scooting 
your hand or a spatula under each piece of mac ’n’ 
cheese and then flipping it over onto a sandwich.) 
Place one slice of Jack on top of each. Finish with 
 
the remaining bread slices, buttered-  side up . 10) Using a wide spatula, place as many sand - 
wiches in the pan as will fit without crowding, cover, 
and cook until the bottoms are nicely browned, about 
4 minutes. Turn and cook until the second sides 
are browned, the cheese is melted, and the mac ’n’ 
cheese is heated through, about 4 minutes longer. 
11) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and 
serve. Repeat to cook the remaining sandwiches.
Variations
Crab Mac Grilled Cheese:  Toss 8 oz [230 g] cooked 
lump crabmeat (fresh or canned, picked over for 
 
shell fragments and  cartilage) with 2 Tbsp minced 
fresh flat-leaf  parsley and 1 tsp lemon zest in a small 
bowl. When  assembling the sandwiches, divide the 
crab mixture evenly on top of the mac filling before 
topping with the Jack and the   second slice of bread. 
Chili Mac Grilled Cheese:  Add a big dollop of chili 
(see page 116) to the top of the mac ’n’ cheese before 
topping with the Jack and the second slice of bread.
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled Cheese:
 Layer 
1 or 2 slices of fresh, ripe heirloom tomato, 2 slices of 
cooked, crisp bacon, and 2 tsp diced fresh jalapeños 
on top of the mac ’n’ cheese before  topping with the 
Jack and the second slice of bread. 45GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBSan Francisco sourdough gets its distinctive tangy 
flavor from the wild yeasts native to the area, and you 
can’t make it anywhere else in the world. Local bakers 
treat their sourdough starter like a child, watching it 
carefully and nurturing it just so, and each bakery’s 
version is slightly different. If you can get your hands 
on a fresh loaf of sourdough and the handcrafted 
California cheeses we’ve listed in the recipe ingre
-
dients (see Sources, page 168), you’ll have a very 
 special sandwich. Substitute other high-  quality semi -
hard American cheeses, such as bandage-wrapped 
Cheddar, aged Jack, or Italian-style fontina if you 
can’t find these, but stick as closely to this list as 
possible to experience a  stunning and authentically 
Californian grilled cheese. 
2 slices California sourdough 
1½ tsp Napa Valley extra-virgin olive oil 
1 slice Fiscalini San Joaquin Gold cheese
¼ ripe California Hass avocado, cut into slices 
about ¼ in [6 mm] thick (optional)
1 slice Bellwether Farms Carmody cheese
1 slice Point Reyes Farmstead Toma cheese1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Brush one side of each bread slice with the 
olive oil. Place one slice, oiled-side down, on a clean 
cutting board. Layer the San Joaquin Gold, avocado 
(if using), Carmody, and Toma on top. Finish with the 
second slice of bread, oiled-side up. 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 2 to 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 2 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately. Ultim a t e  C a l if o r n i a
 Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  146GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMush r o o m - G r u y è r e 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  2
Vegetarians love this sandwich, piled with a rich mix 
of earthy, tender mushrooms. The inspiration was an 
amazing fresh mushroom ravioli dish Nate and I had 
on vacation in Italy, perfumed with the aromas of 
thyme and other herbs and oozing delicious drips of 
fresh cream and Fontina Val d’Aosta, a creamy (and 
fairly stinky) aged cow’s-milk cheese made in the tiny 
French-speaking Aosta Valley of Italy. Sautéed leeks 
put the dish over the top. If you are lucky enough 
to find Fontina Val d’Aosta in your local specialty 
cheese shop, pile it into this seriously decadent 
sandwich, 
subito
! 
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
1 tsp minced fresh thyme or ½ tsp dried thyme
1 small Yukon gold potato, peeled and cut into 
slices about ¼ in [6 mm] thick 
2½ tsp olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 small leek, trimmed and tough green tops 
removed, halved lengthwise and carefully washed, 
cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 oz [55 g] shiitake mushrooms, stemmed, brushed 
clean, and cut into slices about ⅛ in [3 mm] thick
2 oz [55 g] cremini mushrooms, brushed clean and 
cut into slices about ⅛ in [3 mm] thick2 oz [55 g] oyster mushrooms, brushed clean and 
coarsely chopped
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white
2 thick slices Italian-style fontina cheese, 
 
preferably Fontina Val d’Aosta
2 thin slices Gruyère cheese
1) Preheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or coat thoroughly with 
nonstick cooking spray. 
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and half 
of the thyme and set aside. 
3) In a medium bowl, toss the potatoes with ½ tsp 
of the olive oil and a pinch each of salt and pepper 
until the potatoes are evenly coated. Spread the 
potatoes in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet and roast until cooked through and starting to 
brown in spots, about 15 minutes. Set aside to cool.
4) In a small saucepan over medium-  low heat, 
warm 1 tsp of the olive oil. Add the leek and a pinch 
of salt and stir well. Cover and cook, stirring often 
to prevent sticking, until the leek is very soft, about 
10 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.47GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB5) In a medium sauté pan over medium-  high heat, 
warm the remaining 1 tsp olive oil. Add all of the 
mushrooms, the remaining thyme, and a pinch each 
of salt and pepper. Sauté until the mushrooms have 
released their juices, are tender, and are just begin
-
ning to brown, 3 to 5 minutes. Set aside.
6) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over low heat.
7) Spread the thyme butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread  
about 1 Tbsp of the sautéed leek on each. Layer a 
slice of the fontina, half of the potatoes, half of the 
mushroom mixture, and a slice of the Gruyère on top. 
Finish with the remaining bread slices, buttered-  side 
up. Be careful handling the uncooked sandwiches; 
there is a lot of stuff that may fall out as you move 
them. If it does, just tuck the fillings back inside.8) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. 
9) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.48GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMosc o ne 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
This sandwich with a Mediterranean motif is a tribute 
to Mayor George Moscone, considered a hero in 
San Francisco, who was assassinated along with 
gay rights icon and city supervisor Harvey Milk at 
San Francisco’s City Hall in 1978. The fillings are a 
reference to Mayor Moscone’s Italian heritage, and 
a spin on a traditional caprese salad (ripe tomato, 
torn basil, fresh mozzarella, and a drizzle of the best 
balsamic vinegar).
We make our own basil pesto and olive tape
-
nade in big batches, handpicking two dozen bunches 
of fresh basil at a time, then mixing it with fragrant 
lavender buds. The store smells like heaven on 
pesto day. I encourage you to make your own fresh 
supply of these spreads as well—they’re easier than 
you might think and they both keep well, so you can 
make a batch and use a little at a time. 1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
¼ tsp garlic powder
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 Tbsp Kalamata Tapenade (page 156)
1 tsp Basil-Lavender Pesto (page 159)
2 slices Italian-style fontina cheese, preferably 
Fontina Val d’Aosta
2 or 3 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick) 
1 oz [30 g] fresh mozzarella cheese (see Note), 
thinly sliced49GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
garlic powder until well blended. 
3) Spread the garlic butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place both slices, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread  
the tapenade on one slice and the pesto on the other. 
Layer the fontina, tomato slices, and mozzarella on 
top of the tapenade. Finish with the pesto bread, 
buttered-  side up.
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.Note: If you can find it, fresh mozzarella 
di bufala
 is especially good in this recipe. There 
are other cheese-making regions in the world 
making mozzarella from water buffalo’s milk, but 
nothing compares to Italy’s—it is a particularly rich 
and sweet mozzarella that makes an outstanding 
grilled cheese.50GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENFeta  Fe t i s h  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
Feta is one of those cheeses people feel strongly 
about, like Limburger and Gorgonzola—they either 
love it or hate it. A really good fresh feta is sweet 
and salty, creamy and crumbly all at the same time, 
and a small amount will go a long way in adding 
flavor to a sandwich or salad. (Yes, that means I love 
it!) If you’re a feta fan, too, total indulgence is one 
sandwich away. 
If you have some extra feta, make yourself a 
traditional Greek salad to serve on the side. Just 
put chunks of tomato and cucumber, cubed feta, 
a  handful of black olives, and a scattering of thin 
slices of red onion in a bowl. Toss with a drizzle 
of good olive oil, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a 
 sprinkle of oregano. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
¼ tsp garlic powder
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
2 slices Bel Paese or fontina cheese
2 or 3 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick) 
¼ cup [35 g] roasted red bell pepper strips (jarred 
or fresh), drained and patted dry with a paper towel 
1 or 2 roasted or grilled eggplant slices (see Note)
Pinch of dried oreganoPinch of red pepper flakes
Pinch of dried basil
2 Tbsp crumbled feta (we like Israeli sheep’s-milk 
feta), drained
1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
garlic powder until well blended. 
3) Spread the garlic butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. L ayer 
the Bel Paese, tomato slices, bell pepper strips, and 
eggplant on top. Sprinkle the oregano, red pepper 
flakes, and basil on top of the eggplant, then top 
with the feta. Finish with the second slice of bread, 
buttered-  side up . Be careful handling the uncooked 
sandwiches; there is a lot of stuff that may fall out as 
you move them. If it does, just tuck the fillings back 
inside.
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. 51GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Note: To roast or grill eggplant, trim off the 
stem of one small globe eggplant and cut lengthwise 
into ¼-in [6 -mm] slices. Sprinkle both sides of the 
slices with kosher salt and lay flat on a baking sheet 
lined with paper towels for about 20 minutes. While 
the eggplant is resting, preheat the oven to 425°F 
[220°C], preheat a gas grill to high, or build a hot 
fire in a charcoal grill. The salt will draw water from 
the eggplant during this time; after it rests, pat the 
eggplant pieces dry with more paper towels. Line 
a baking sheet with parchment paper or aluminum 
foil or brush the grill rack with oil. Brush both sides 
of the eggplant slices with a light coating of olive oil. 
Arrange on the prepared baking sheet and roast in 
the oven until cooked through and lightly browned, 
about 15 minutes, or arrange on the hot grill grate 
and grill, turning once, until tender and nicely grill-
marked, about 5 minutes per side. Use the extra 
eggplant for more sandwiches, or save for other uses 
such as an antipasto platter or baba ganoush. Can be 
frozen and thawed for later use.Variation
Roasted Zucchini:  Roasted zucchini is a nice addition 
to this sandwich. Slice one zucchini thinly lengthwise, 
then toss with a drizzle of olive oil and a pinch of 
 
salt and pepper and roast or grill alongside the 
 
eggplant. Use leftover roasted or grilled zucchini 
slices for an antipasto platter, or chop and add to 
scrambled eggs or stir-fries. The slices can be frozen 
and thawed for later use.52GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBlack B e an : F r e s h C o r n
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  4
We once held an unusual grilled cheese contest:  
We invited members of the food press to the restau
-
rant, where they were expecting us to demonstrate 
cooking techniques. Instead, we turned the tables 
and had them cook for us. We laid out more than fifty 
ingredients to choose from and had them design 
their own grilled cheese. The winning sandwich went 
on the menu, with sales going to the winner’s charity 
of choice. This recipe was adapted from the winner, 
created by Amy Sherman, founder of the blog Cook
-
ing With Amy, based in San Francisco.
1 large ear fresh corn or ¾ cup [130 g] frozen corn 
kernels
½ fresh red or green jalapeño chile, seeded and cut 
into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice (see Note) 
½ fresh Hatch or Anaheim chile, seeded and cut 
into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice (see Note) 
½ cup [100 g] canned black beans, drained and 
rinsed 
1 small ripe plum tomato, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
¼ tsp ground cumin
¼ tsp garlic powder
¼ tsp kosher salt
¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
½ tsp chipotle chile powder8 slices sourdough bread 
4 slices mild or medium Cheddar cheese
1 avocado, preferably Hass, pitted, peeled, and 
 
cut into slices about ¼ in [6 mm] thick (optional)
4 slices Oaxaca or Monterey Jack cheese
Pico de gallo 
or other salsa of your choice for 
serving (optional) 
1) Husk the ear of corn and remove any corn silk. 
Cut the cob in half crosswise, put the halves cut-side 
down on a microwave-safe plate, and microwave 
on high for 2 minutes, or until the kernels turn just a 
shade darker and don’t look raw (you may need to 
adjust the cooking time depending on the power of 
your microwave oven). Let the corn cool until easy to 
handle. Put both halves cut-side down on a cutting 
board and carefully slice off the kernels. Place the 
kernels in a medium bowl; discard the cobs. If using 
frozen corn, microwave in a medium bowl until 
warmed through and drain. Add the jalapeño and 
Hatch chiles to the bowl and toss to mix with the 
corn. Set aside. 
2) In a small bowl, combine the black beans, 
tomato, cumin, garlic powder, salt, and black pepper 
and toss to mix well. Set aside. In another small bowl, 
stir together the butter and chipotle chile powder 
until well blended.53GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB3) Heat a large cast-iron or nonstick skillet over 
medium-  low heat.
4) Spread the chipotle butter on one side of 
each bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. L ayer 
one slice of the Cheddar, one-fourth of the chile-corn 
mixture, one-fourth of the black bean mixture, a 
few slices of avocado (if using), and one slice of the 
Oaxaca cheese on top. Finish with a second slice 
of bread, buttered-  side up . Repeat to assemble the 
remaining sandwiches.
5) Using a wide spatula, place as many sand - 
wiches in the pan as will fit without crowding, cover, 
and cook until the bottoms are nicely browned, 2 to 
 
3 minutes. Turn and cook until the second side is 
browned and the cheese is melted, 2 to 3 minutes 
longer. 
6) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve, 
with the 
pico de gallo
 on the side, if you like. Repeat 
to cook the remaining sandwiches.Note: When adding hot chiles to your grilled 
cheese, keep in mind that the fat in the melted 
cheese cuts the heat of the chiles, so you will prob
-
ably want to use hotter chiles than you think for the 
desired kick in the grilled sandwich. If you can get 
your hands on New Mexican Hatch chiles (which 
are only available for about 2 months of the year, 
during the summer), this is a wonderful way to get to 
know them. They are fairly mild (similar to jalapeños 
in heat) with a fruity, rich flavor. We like to use a mix 
of chiles in our recipes so no one flavor stands out. 
Remember, the heat of chiles can vary widely, so a 
cautious taste test is the only way to know how fiery 
a particular chile really is! See the Note on page 150 
for more on how to handle chiles in the kitchen.55GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBThe C at c h 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  2 t I  4
Nate and I love the San Francisco 49ers, and this 
sandwich refers to three memorable Niner moments.
The first is the winning touchdown reception 
by Dwight Clark, off a Joe Montana pass in the 1982 
NFC Championship Game with the Dallas Cowboys, 
widely regarded as one of the most critical events 
in NFL history. It sent the 49ers to the Super Bowl 
(which they won!). 
The second happened in 1999, during a playoff 
game with the Green Bay Packers. Forty-niner Terrell 
Owens caught a game-winning touchdown pass from 
quarterback Steve Young to cap a come-from-behind 
victory that broke a losing streak of five straight play
-
off losses to Green Bay. 
Finally, in 2012, the Niners won another close 
playoff game against the New Orleans Saints. Quarter -
back Alex Smith connected with Vernon Davis for a 
last-second touchdown that put the 49ers ahead.
It may be a bit of hubris, but, for us, this open-
faced tuna melt is as memorable as these catches. 
One 6-oz [170-g] can oil-packed tuna, drained
2 Tbsp mayonnaise
¼ Granny Smith apple, minced
½ celery stalk, minced
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
½ shallot, minced
1 garlic clove, minced½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 pretzel buns (hamburger size), split in half 
horizontally 
4 tsp stone-ground mustard 
8 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] thick) 
8 to 12 Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles (page 147) 
4 slices double-cream Gouda cheese
1) Preheat the oven to 450°F [230°C], with the  
convection option on, if you have it. 
2) In a medium bowl, combine the tuna, mayon - 
naise, apple, celery, parsley, shallot, garlic, salt, and 
pepper and stir until well mixed. Set aside. 
3) Place the pretzel bun halves on a baking sheet, 
cut-side up. Spread 1 tsp mustard on each bun half. 
Layer two tomato slices, two or three pickle chips, 
one-fourth of the tuna mixture, and one slice of the 
Gouda on top of each bun half.
4) Bake the open-faced sandwiches for about 
3 minutes, or until the cheese is melted. 
5) Cut each sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately. 56GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENThe Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese is the result 
of two sources of inspiration: an extremely addic
-
tive and creamy Gorgonzola chicken gnocchi dish 
served at a little family-owned Italian joint in San 
 Francisco; and customer requests for “something 
with chicken” and “something on whole wheat.” You 
can use another kind of bread if you want, but a 
hearty whole-wheat bread, with just a touch of sweet
-
ness, really stands up to the pungent blue cheese 
and tangy dill mustard to make this sandwich, you 
know . . . crow.
2 tsp Dijon mustard 
½ tsp dried dill
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
4 slices rustic artisan whole-wheat or whole-grain 
bread 
4 slices Havarti cheese
4 oz [115 g] roasted chicken breast, from a good-
quality market (see Note), thinly sliced
1 handful fresh baby arugula or baby spinach 
leaves 
1 oz [30 g] crumbled Maytag or Point Reyes 
Farmstead blue cheese 1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the mustard and dill 
until well blended. Set aside.
3) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread half 
of the dill mustard on each. Layer one slice of the 
Havarti, half of the chicken, half of the arugula, half 
of the blue cheese, and then another slice of the 
Havarti on top. Finish with the remaining bread 
 
slices, buttered-  side up . 
4) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.Fogh orn L eg h o r n 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  257GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBNote: You can use sautéed chicken breast 
in place of the deli sliced chicken in this sandwich. 
Start with a small (4- to 6-oz [115- to 170-g] ) chicken 
breast, cut it carefully in half horizontally through the 
thickness to make two thinner fillets, and sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Heat a nonstick skillet over 
medium-  high heat, add 1 tsp vegetable oil, and swirl 
to coat the pan. Add the chicken slices and sauté for 
3 minutes, then flip and sauté for another 3 minutes. 
Keep flipping every 3 minutes and cooking until the 
chicken is completely cooked through (you shouldn’t 
see any pink when the breast is sliced) and lightly 
browned on the outside. If you have an instant-read 
thermometer, cook until the internal temperature 
reaches 165°F [74°C].58GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMor o c c a n Ch i c k e n  
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  2
The Moroccan spice blend called ras el hanout   
was one of the inspirations for this unusual and 
sophisticated sandwich. The mixture is a mind-
 
blowing combination of cinnamon, saffron, and 
 
other spices that magically renders everything it 
touches delicious. Admittedly, it’s a bit of extra effort 
to prepare the components for this sandwich, and 
you can substitute store-bought ras el hanout and 
green olive  tapenade for the homemade versions, 
if you wish. I use whole-wheat pitas or whole-wheat 
naan to stand in for 
hobz belboula,
 the traditional 
barley bread served with tagines in Morocco. 
One 8-oz [230-g] boneless, skinless chicken breast 
1 tsp Ras el Hanout (recipe follows)
¼ tsp kosher salt
1 tsp olive oil
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature 
2 whole-wheat pitas or whole-wheat naan breads, 
halved crosswise (not split)
¼ cup [55 g] Moroccan Green Olive, Artichoke, and 
Preserved Lemon Spread (page 158)
4 slices Mahón cheese1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
high heat.
2) Rinse the chicken breast and pat dry with a 
paper towel. Cut the chicken breast in half horizon
-
tally through the thickness, so you have two equal-
size fillets about ½ in [12 mm] thick. Sprinkle th
e ras 
el hanout a
nd the salt on all sides of the chicken. 
3) Swirl the olive oil in the hot skillet. Add the 
chicken slices and cook until opaque on the bottom, 
about 3 minutes. Turn and cook on the second side 
until the chicken is cooked through and you cannot 
see any pink in the middle, about 3 minutes longer. 
Transfer the chicken to a plate and let rest. Wipe out 
the skillet with a paper towel and set aside.
4) Spread the butter on one side of each piece of 
pita, dividing it evenly. Place two pieces, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread each 
with half of the olive spread. Layer one slice of the 
Mahón, one piece of chicken, and another slice of 
the Mahón on top. Finish with the remaining pita 
pieces, buttered-  side up.59GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB5) Return the skillet to medium-  low heat. Using 
a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in the 
pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until 
 
the second sides are browned and the cheese is 
melted, about 3 minutes longer. 6) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Ras El Hanout 
MPkeB  P bIIt ¼ c Ip [30 g]
Ras el hanout, which translates as “top of the shop,” is a spice mix prepared by 
merchants throughout Morocco. There is no standard formulation and merchants 
will guard the recipes for their proprietary blends. This is my favorite variation. Try 
sprinkling it on lamb, chicken, beef, or tofu before cooking. 
1 Tbsp kosher salt
2 tsp ground ginger
2 tsp ground nutmeg
1½ tsp ground allspice
1½ tsp ground mace 
1½ tsp ground cardamom
1½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp ground turmeric
25 saffron threads, crushed with the 
back of a spoon in a small bowl
Combine all of the ingredients in a 
small bowl and stir to mix thoroughly. 
Store in an airtight container in a cool, 
dark place for up to 3 months. 
60GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENIndia n L e ft o v e rs 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
Leftovers of all kinds make great grilled cheeses, and 
Indian leftovers make one of the best. You can use 
almost any of your favorite Indian take-out dishes for 
this sandwich. If your chicken chunks are large, cut 
them into bite-size pieces. To make this vegetarian, 
use 
bengan bartha, channa masala,
 or 
palak paneer
 
instead of the chicken. (What? No leftovers? It’s fine 
to use store-bought naan and prepared Indian dishes 
from the grocery store instead.) Mint and cilantro 
chutney is the ubiquitous green sauce that comes 
with almost all take-out Indian food.
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
1 naan bread, halved (not split)
1 tsp mint and cilantro chutney (optional)
2 slices pepper Jack cheese
⅓ cup [55 g] leftover chicken
 tikka masala 
or 
tandoori chicken 1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each piece of 
naan, dividing it evenly. Place one piece, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread with the 
chutney (if using). Layer a slice of the pepper Jack, 
the chicken 
tikka masala,
 and the second slice of 
pepper Jack on top. Finish with the second piece 
 
of naan, buttered-  side up . 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.61GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBOne evening, one of our cooks decided to find 
out what would happen if he put 
everything
 on a 
sandwich—several cheeses, a few meats to match, 
sweet pickles and hot jalapeños, fresh crisp greens, 
and ripe tomato slices. . . . He could barely cram 
the results in his mouth, but we all had to try it—
and then we asked if we could run it as a special. 
You can make all kinds of substitutions with this 
sandwich; whole-wheat or whole-grain breads work 
well, as do a variety of cheeses. 
The name came from the sandwich’s author 
himself; he joked about filming a spoof of 
The Blair 
Witch Project
 called 
The Bro Witch Project
 in San 
Francisco’s Golden Gate Park. It would have a group 
of bros (frat-boy types) stumbling around the park 
at night, unable to find their way to the bars in the 
nearby Sunset District. We asked to repurpose the 
name for this sandwich, as it usually generates a 
response like “Whoa! Bro! Dude!” among those who 
witness its glory. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
3 slices sourdough or high-quality white bread 
1 tsp Dijon mustard
1 slice Havarti cheese
1 slice roasted deli-style turkey 
Scant handful of baby arugula or baby 
spinach leaves 2 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained
1 slice mild or medium Cheddar cheese 
1 tsp stone-ground mustard
1 slice Colby Jack cheese
2 or 3 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick) 
3 or 4 Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles (page 147)
1 slice black forest ham 
1 slice Swiss cheese
1 Tbsp Pickled Red Onions (page 151)
3 or 4 slices fresh jalapeño chile (seeded if you like 
less heat) or Sweet Pickled Jalapeños (page 152)
1) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the  
convection option on, if you have it. Place a baking 
sheet in the oven to preheat. 
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place the slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread the 
Dijon mustard on one slice, then top with the Havarti, 
turkey, arugula, bacon, and Cheddar. Spread the 
stone-ground mustard on the second slice of bread,
 Bro ’W i c h  P r o j e ct 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1 h IngPy  bPI IP 2 n IPmPl pe I ple
CONT’D63GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBthen layer with the Colby Jack, tomato slices, pickle 
chips, and ham. Place the Swiss on the third slice and 
arrange the pickled onions and jalapeño on top. 
3) Remove the hot baking sheet from the oven 
and, using a wide spatula, carefully transfer the 
topped breads to the baking sheet. Bake for 3 to 
4 minutes, until the cheeses start to melt and the 
 
fillings are warmed through. When you put the baking 
sheet in the oven, immediately begin to preheat a 
cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  low heat. 
4) Using a wide spatula, transfer the topped breads 
to the hot skillet, bread-side down. Cook until the 
bottoms are nicely browned, about 2 minutes. 
 
Transfer to a clean cutting board.
5) Place the Swiss-jalapeño piece bread-side down 
on top of the piece with turkey and bacon, then care-
fully turn over the Colby Jack–ham piece and place it,
 
bread-side up, on top of the sandwich. 
6) Cut the sandwich very carefully into quarters 
and serve immediately. 64GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENWe turned the classic turkey club sandwich into 
a grilled cheese, and thought it was so hip that it 
should have its own nightclub—introducing Club 
Turkey! Club sandwiches are classic, nostalgic Amer
-
icana, featured on diner and country-club menus 
alike. Ours is not the traditional triple-decker, and 
we had to make some changes to make it work as 
a grilled cheese, like omitting the mayonnaise and 
substituting arugula for lettuce. We use two kinds of 
cheese—Cheddar and Havarti—to add complexity 
and variations in color and texture to the sandwich. 
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
4 slices sourdough or white sandwich loaf 
1 Tbsp stone-ground mustard 
2 slices mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar or 
Colby cheese
6 oz [170 g] smoked turkey, thinly sliced
4 to 6 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick) 
1 handful baby arugula or baby spinach leaves
4 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained
2 slices Havarti or Monterey Jack cheese1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread the 
mustard on each, again dividing it evenly. Layer one 
slice of the Cheddar, half of the turkey, two or three 
tomato slices, half of the arugula, two strips of bacon, 
and one slice of the Havarti on top. Finish with the 
remaining bread slices, buttered-  side up . 
3) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Variations
Farmyard Club:  Spread 1 Tbsp fresh chèvre on the 
second side of the buttered bread slices that are not 
spread with mustard.
Club Cluck or Club Oink:
 Substitute sliced roast 
chicken or ham for the smoked turkey. Club Tu r ke y  
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  265
GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBWild T u r k ey 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
The Wild Turkey Grilled Cheese was one of the orig - 
inal sandwiches on our menu, so it holds a special 
place in our hearts. Smoky, sweet, tart, and rich at the 
same time, the bold flavors in this sandwich magically 
come together for a unique experience. 
½ tsp olive oil
Scant handful of baby arugula leaves
Pinch of kosher salt
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 Tbsp red bell pepper and ancho chili jam
 
(see Sources, page 168)
2 slices Havarti cheese
3 oz [85 g] smoked turkey, thinly sliced 
1 Tbsp Pickled Red Onions (page 151)1) Heat the olive oil in a small saucepan over 
medium heat. Add the arugula and salt and sauté for 
15 seconds, or until the arugula is just beginning to 
wilt. Remove from the heat and set aside.
2) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
3) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, buttered-  side 
down, on a clean cutting board. Spread with the jam. 
Layer one slice of the Havarti, the arugula, turkey, 
pickled onions, and the second slice of Havarti on 
top. Finish with the second slice of bread, buttered-  
side up. 
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.66
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENThank s giv i n g  Le f t o ve r s 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
Here, I put the entire Thanksgiving meal between 
two slices of sage-buttered bread, which stands in 
for the stuffing. It’s a great way to use up leftover 
Thanksgiving turkey, mashed potatoes, cranberry 
sauce, and gravy, but also a great excuse to roast 
a turkey breast, make some cranberry sauce 
and mashed potatoes, and give thanks in July, 
or any time. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
½ tsp minced fresh sage 
2 slices rustic artisan whole-grain bread 
2 slices Colby Jack cheese
2 Tbsp Cranberry Sauce (page 154)
¼ cup [55 g] Mashed Potatoes (see page 86) 
3 oz [85 g] roasted turkey, thinly sliced 
¼ cup [60 ml] Quick Cream Gravy (facing page; 
optional)1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and sage 
until well blended. 
3) Spread the sage butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board.   
Layer one slice of the Colby Jack, the cranberry 
sauce, mashed potatoes, turkey, and the second 
slice of Colby Jack on top. Finish with the second 
slice of bread, buttered-  side up . 
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately, with the gravy on the side for dipping, 
 
if you like.67
GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBQuick Cream Gravy 
MPkeB  PbIIt 1¹ ⁄ 3 cIpB [320 ml]
The sage in this gravy gives it just the right flavor to complement the Thanksgiving 
Leftovers Grilled Cheese. Try it—you'll see!
2 Tbsp salted butter, at room 
temperature
3 Tbsp all-purpose flour 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream
Kosher salt and freshly ground black 
pepper
½ tsp minced fresh sage or ¼ tsp 
dried rubbed sage (optional)
1 to 3 Tbsp milk, if needed1) Melt the butter in a small saucepan 
over medium-low heat. Gradually whisk 
 
in the flour until combined, and then 
cook, whisking constantly, for about 
30 seconds.
2) Gradually add the cream to the 
butter mixture, still whisking constantly, 
until the mixture is smooth. Whisk 
in ½ tsp salt, ½ tsp pepper, and the 
sage (if using). Break up any lumps. 
Cook, whisking occasionally, for about 
5 minutes, or until the gravy thickens. 
Taste and adjust the seasoning with 
more salt and pepper, if needed. If the 
gravy is too thick, thin it by whisking in 
a little milk, 1 Tbsp at a time, until you 
reach the desired consistency. 
3) Store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 days. Rewarm 
in a microwave or over low heat in a 
small saucepan before serving. 
68GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENJalap e ño P op p e r
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
The Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese really should 
be called “The Scout.” One night while recipe testing, 
Nate and I fed our friend Scout—who was also the 
very first customer at our restaurant—a goat cheese 
and Jack grilled cheese. Scout’s response: “This is 
good, but can I put some jalapeños on it?” Thus it 
dawned on us that the jalapeño popper, that main
-
stay of sports bars everywhere, was a perfect candi
-
date for grilled cheesification. 
1½ tsp salted butter, room temperature
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 Tbsp fresh chèvre (goat cheese), at room 
temperature 
1 slice Monterey Jack cheese
¼ cup [55 g] Apricot-Jalapeño Relish (page 155)
2 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place both slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread the 
chèvre on one slice and place the Jack on the other. 
Carefully spread the relish on top of the Jack and 
place the bacon on top of the relish. Finish with the 
second slice of bread, chèvre-side down. 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.69GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBPigle t 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
An irresistible version of the ham-and-cheese sand - 
wich, the Piglet has been on our menu since Day 
One. The inspiration came from a simple farmer-style 
cheese plate: fresh apples, a slab of herb bread, 
shavings of ham, stone-ground mustard, and a 
wedge of aged Cheddar. The most popular addition 
with our customers is roasted tomatoes, and some 
folks prefer deli-style roasted turkey to the ham. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
¼ tsp minced fresh rosemary or ⅛ tsp dried 
rosemary, crumbled
2 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
1 Tbsp Apple Mustard (page 160)
2 slices medium or sharp Cheddar cheese
2 oz [55 g] thinly sliced cured ham1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
rosemary until well blended. 
3) Spread the rosemary butter on one side of 
each bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board.   
Spread with the apple mustard. Layer one slice 
 
of the Cheddar, the ham, and the second slice of 
Cheddar on top. Finish with the second slice of 
bread, buttered-side up. 
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.71GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBHawa i i a n 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  2
Hawaiian pizza is one of our guilty pleasures—gooey 
mozzarella, sweet-tart pineapple, savory ham, and 
spicy tomato sauce . . . aloha mmmm. We turned this 
classic pizza combination into one heck of a grilled 
cheese sandwich by using fresh, high-quality ingredi
-
ents and adding a splash of love.
4 slices fresh pineapple (about ¼ in [6 mm] thick), 
cored, or ½ of a small can of pineapple rings in 
juice, drained 
6 to 8 slices ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick) 
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
4 slices Hawaiian bread (slightly sweet white 
bread) or artisan white bread 
4 slices [85 g] fontina cheese 
4 oz [115 g] sliced ham
3 oz [85 g] fresh mozzarella cheese, thinly sliced 
Pinch of red repper flakes (optional)
1) Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil. 
2) Arrange the pineapple and tomato slices on the 
prepared baking sheet and bake for 12 minutes, or 
until the surfaces appear dry but not yet browned, 
turning the pieces over halfway through. Remove 
from the oven and set aside.3) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
4) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Layer two slices 
of the fontina, half of the ham, three or four slices 
of roasted tomato, two rings of roasted pineapple, 
and half of the mozzarella on top of each. Sprinkle 
with the red pepper flakes (if using). Finish with the 
remaining slices of bread, buttered-  side up . 
5) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned, the cheese is melted, 
and the other ingredients are heated through, about 
4 minutes longer. 
6) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.72GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENCuban o  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  6
The Cubano, the aptly named national sandwich of 
Cuba, has seen a thousand variations on its tasty 
basics, which are ham, roasted pork, pickles, Swiss 
cheese, and mustard, traditionally on a soft roll. My 
version features house-made pulled pork slathered 
in a rich coffee rub, cured artisanal ham, two kinds of 
cheese, sweet pickled red onions, and our famous 
(and so easy!) bread ’n’ butter pickles. We trade the 
traditional soft roll for rustic, crusty bread for optimal 
buttery crunch.
This sandwich takes a bit of planning ahead 
and prep work, but it’s worth it. If you have pulled 
pork left over, save the pan juices to make delicious 
Pulled Pork Stew (page 115) or stir ½ cup [85 g] or so 
of pulled pork into Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese (page 120). 
And of course you can always pile it on a soft ham
-
burger bun with some Kale Slaw (page 163), a few 
Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles, and a slather of BBQ sauce 
for an ever-popular classic pulled pork sandwich.
If you don’t want to go through the hassle of 
making your own pulled pork, pick some up at your 
favorite BBQ joint.DRY RUB 
1 Tbsp finely ground espresso beans or instant 
espresso powder
¼ cup [30 g] 
pimentón
 (smoked paprika)
2 Tbsp kosher salt
1½ Tbsp freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp sugar
1 Tbsp chili powder
1½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp cayenne pepper
2 lb [910 g] pork shoulder (also called pork butt or 
Boston butt), trimmed of any large visible chunks 
of fat 
2 to 4 cups [480 to 960 ml] apple juice (see Note) 
3 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
1½ tsp garlic powder
12 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
3 Tbsp stone-ground mustard 
6 slices Emmenthaler or Swiss cheese
6 oz [170 g] thinly sliced ham 
6 Tbsp Pickled Red Onions (page 151)
18 to 24 Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles (page 147)
6 slices Muenster cheese73GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB1) Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. 
2) To make the dry rub: In a small bowl, combine 
the espresso, 
pimentón,
 salt, black pepper, sugar, 
chili powder, garlic powder, and cayenne pepper 
 
and stir to mix well. 
3) Rub the pork thoroughly with the dry rub, 
coating it thickly on all sides. Place the pork in a 
Dutch oven or ovenproof saucepan deep enough so 
the pan can be covered without touching the meat. 
Pour in enough of the apple juice to come halfway 
up the sides of the pork. Cover the pan tightly with 
one layer of plastic wrap and then one or two layers 
of aluminum foil (don’t worry, the plastic wrap will be 
fine in the oven; we want this airtight!). Bake for 3 to 
4 hours, or until the pork is falling-apart tender; a 
 
fork should move easily through to the center of 
 
the meat. Pour off any remaining juices in the pan 
and let the pork cool in the pan for 10 minutes. 
4) Using your hands or two forks, shred the pork 
into bite-size chunks. Measure off 3 cups [510 g] for 
your Cubanos. (Store the remainder in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days; our 
favorite use is snacking.) 
5) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over 
 medium-  low heat.6) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and 
garlic powder until well blended. 
7) Spread the garlic butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board.   
Spread ½ Tbsp of the mustard on each. Layer a 
 
slice of the Emmenthaler, one-sixth of the ham, 
1 Tbsp of the pickled onions, 3 or 4 pickles, ½ cup 
[85 g] of the pulled pork, and a slice of the Muenster 
on top of each. Finish with two slices of bread, 
buttered-  side up.
8) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. Repeat, assembling and 
cooking the remaining four sandwiches. 
9) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Note: We use fresh organic apple juice. You 
can also use cola, Dr Pepper, or orange juice for a 
slightly different flavor.75GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBTruf f l ed G r i l l e d C h ee s e  
À 
Ba
c
o
n
 
: 
Chi
v
es
SePveB  2 PB P mPin I iBh IP  4 PB Pn Pppetize P
Sometimes I like to put together special tasting 
menus; and when I include this sandwich, it is always 
a hit. It’s very rich, so it’s best enjoyed in small doses 
as a decadent appetizer or snack. It’s even better 
paired with a glass of chilled brut Champagne.
The best part is that the truffled cheese browns 
and crisps in the holes of the bread as it cooks on 
the griddle; the effect is amazing. Be patient and 
don’t move the sandwich around the pan while it’s 
cooking. Once you taste that crusty cheese, you’ll 
know what I mean.
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
4 slices ciabatta 
4 slices Boschetto al Tartufo or other semisoft 
truffled cheese 
4 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained
2 Tbsp crème fraîche 
1 tsp truffle oil 
6 fresh chives, minced1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Layer one 
slice of the Boschetto al Tartufo, two strips of the 
bacon, and then a second slice of the cheese on top 
of each. Finish with the remaining slices of bread, 
buttered-  side up. 
3) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 2 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
cheese melts through the holes of the ciabatta on 
the bottoms and is lightly browned, about 2 minutes 
longer. 
4) Cut each sandwich in half for an entrée; or into 
quarters for an appetizer. Top each piece with a 
 
dollop of crème fraîche, a drizzle of truffle oil, and 
 
a sprinkle of chives and serve immediately.76GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENButt e r nu t  B u s t e r  
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  2
This hit sandwich is named after legendary San 
Francisco Giants catcher Buster Posey, who led the 
team to their World Series Championship in 2012. 
Our flagship location is two blocks from the Giants’ 
stadium, so before every ball game we are swarmed 
with fans bedecked in the Giants’ colors: (butternut) 
orange and black. Inspired by classic Italian squash 
ravioli with sage and brown butter, we recommend 
making this sandwich in playoffs season—fall, that 
is—or winter, when butternut squash is in season. 
Idiazábal is a lovely hard sheep’s-milk cheese 
from the Basque region; if you can’t find it, substitute 
a good-quality, nutty Gruyère. Use the remaining 
roasted squash (and any extra fresh sage) to make 
the delicious Butternut Squash Soup on page 108. 
You could also cut it into cubes for pretty fall salads, 
or mash it up for a side dish.
1 small butternut squash, peeled, halved 
lengthwise, and seeds and strings removed
1 Tbsp olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1½ tsp vegetable oil
½ small yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature 
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 8 fresh sage leaves
2 slices Italian-style fontina cheese, preferably 
Fontina Val d’Aosta
2 oz [55 g] thinly sliced prosciutto or speck
1 oz [25 g] Idiazábal cheese, grated 
1) Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil and 
coat well with nonstick cooking spray. 
2) Cut the squash into slices about ¼ in [6 mm] 
thick. Pile the squash on the prepared baking sheet, 
drizzle with the olive oil, and sprinkle with a pinch 
each of salt and pepper. Toss to coat well and spread 
the squash slices to lie flat in a single layer on the 
baking sheet. Roast for 15 to 20 minutes, or until 
 
easily pierced with a fork and just beginning to brown. 
(If the squash begins to brown before softening, 
sprinkle with water and cover with foil.) Transfer to 
a wire rack and let cool on the pan. Set aside four 
of the cooked squash slices and store the rest for 
another use.77GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB3) While the squash is roasting, warm the vegeta - 
ble oil in a small skillet over low heat. Add the onion 
and a pinch of salt and stir to combine. Cover and 
cook, stirring every couple of minutes, until the onion 
is translucent and soft, about 8 minutes. Uncover, 
raise the heat to medium, and cook, stirring often to 
prevent scorching, until the onion is the color of light 
brown sugar, about 5 minutes longer. Remove from 
the heat and set aside.
4) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
5) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side up, on a clean cutting board. Carefully lay four 
of the sage leaves on each piece in a star pattern 
and, using your fingers, smear a little butter over the 
sage stars to hold them in place during cooking. Set 
aside on a corner of the cutting board.
6) Place the remaining bread, buttered-  side down, 
on the cutting board. Layer half of the caramelized 
onions, one slice of the fontina, half of the reserved 
cooked squash, half of the prosciutto, and half of the 
Idiazábal on top of each. Finish with the decorated 
breads, sage stars facing up. 7) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan with the sage stars facing down, cover, and 
cook until the bottoms are nicely browned, about 
4 minutes. Turn and cook until the second sides are 
browned and the cheese is melted, about 4 minutes 
longer. 
8) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately, with the sage stars facing up.78GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENDon G o n d o l a 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1
Long live the Don! Don Gondola is the stage name  
of a talented accordion player with a penchant for 
wild costumes and even wilder stage antics. When 
the Don rolls through San Francisco, we always host 
a live accordion show at one of our stores in his 
honor. So play some polka and sing along at the top 
of your lungs while you make his signature sandwich. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
¼ tsp garlic powder
2 slices Italian loaf 
1 tsp Basil-Lavender Pesto (page 159)
2 slices provolone cheese (young, plain provolone, 
not aged or smoked)
2 oz [55 g] thinly sliced salami (we like 
salume 
finocchiona,
 a Tuscan salami made with fennel)
2 or 3 slices small ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in 
 
[6 mm] thick) 1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
garlic powder until well blended. 
3) Spread the garlic butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board.  
Spread with the pesto. Layer one slice of the 
 provolone, the salami, tomato slices, and then 
the second slice of provolone on top. Finish 
with the second slice of bread, buttered-  side up . 
4) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.79GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBBecause I’m obsessed with all things that involve 
bread and cheese, I put some effort into learning 
how to make great Neapolitan-style pizzas at home. 
Along the way, I developed a simple, foolproof mar
-
inara pizza sauce that comes together in seconds. 
I think I like it even more in this pizza-flavored grilled 
cheese. You will have extra sauce; you could invite 
some friends over for a Pizza-wich party, letting 
everyone put their favorite pizza toppings in their 
sandwich, or save the extra and toss it with fresh 
pasta and a bit of freshly grated Parmesan for a 
super-easy supper the next day. 
One 14-oz [400-g] can Italian whole peeled 
tomatoes, preferably San Marzano, drained
3½ tsp olive oil
½ tsp red wine vinegar
1 garlic clove, minced
½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp dried oregano, crumbled
4 slices Italian loaf 
2 Tbsp freshly grated Parmesan cheese, preferably 
Parmigiano-Reggiano
2 oz [55 g] pepperoni, thinly sliced (optional) 
3 oz [85 g] fresh mozzarella, thinly sliced 
Red pepper flakes for sprinkling (optional) 1) In a food processor fitted with the metal blade 
or in a blender, combine the tomatoes, 1½ tsp of the 
olive oil, the vinegar, garlic, salt, and oregano. Pro
-
cess until the sauce is smooth and no chunks remain, 
about 10 seconds. Scrape the tomato sauce into a 
small bowl and set aside. 
2) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
3) Brush one side of each bread slice with the 
remaining 2 tsp olive oil. Place two slices, oiled-side 
down, on a clean cutting board. Sprinkle half of 
the Parmesan on each. Then, spread 2 Tbsp of the 
tomato sauce over the Parmesan. Layer half of the 
pepperoni (if using) and half of the mozzarella on top. 
Sprinkle with the red pepper flakes (if using). Finish 
with the remaining slices of bread, oiled-side up. 
4) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches 
in the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are 
nicely browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and cook until 
the second sides are browned and the cheese is 
melted, about 3 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately, with extra tomato sauce on the side for 
dipping if you like.Pizza -w i c h 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  281GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBMuffa l e t t a 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
The muffaletta (also spelled muffuletta and probably 
twenty other ways, but generally pronounced “moo-
fuh-LET-uh”) originated in the French Quarter of New 
Orleans. Traditionally made on a light flat roll that is 
also called a muffaletta, it’s a staple at lunch counters 
throughout Louisiana. While muffalettas are usually 
assembled and allowed to sit, wrapped, for several 
hours in a refrigerator before eating to allow the 
flavors to meld, we cook ours right away so that the 
bread can crisp up as a grilled cheese should. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
One 4-in [10 -cm] square of focaccia bread, split 
through the thickness (plain, rosemary, or herb 
focaccia all work equally well) 
1 slice provolone cheese (young, plain provolone, 
not aged or smoked)
2 or 3 slices small ripe plum tomato (about ¼ in 
 
[6 mm] thick) 
2 thin slices mortadella 
1 slice smoked mozzarella cheese (also called 
Scamorza)
2 thin slices capicola 
4 thin slices dry salami 
2 Tbsp Muffaletta Olive Salad (page 157) 
1 slice Jarlsberg cheese1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on the outside of each piece 
of focaccia, dividing it evenly. Place the bottom half, 
buttered-  s ide down, on a clean cutting board. Layer 
the provolone, tomato slices, mortadella, mozza - 
rella, capicola, salami, olive salad, and Jarlsberg on 
top. Finish with the top half of the bread, buttered-  
side up. 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.83GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBRoast B e e f : Bl u e C h e e s e 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  1
Warm savory roast beef and salty pungent blue 
cheese give this grilled cheese its name; the purple-  
black, sweet and acidic Balsamic Onion Marmalade 
ties everything together. This is a grown-up grilled 
cheese and these are strong flavors, but so good 
together. If you don’t want to take the time to make 
the marmalade, you can substitute store-bought 
onion jam, but don’t skip it altogether—it takes this 
sandwich over the top. 
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices white country bread 
2 Tbsp Balsamic Onion Marmalade (page 161)
2 slices Muenster cheese
3 oz [85 g] thinly sliced roast beef 
1½ Tbsp crumbled blue cheese (we especially 
like King Island Dairy’s Roaring Forties Blue from 
Australia and New Zealand for this sandwich; 
 
see Note) 
1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, buttered-  side 
down, on a clean cutting board. Spread with the 
onion marmalade. Layer one slice of the Muenster, the roast beef, blue cheese, and the second slice 
of Muenster on top. Finish with the second slice of 
bread, buttered-  side up . 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Note: The sharpness of blue cheeses can 
vary considerably; some are creamy and mild, some 
so sharp you can smell them across the room the 
minute they’re unwrapped. You may want to adjust 
the amount you add to this sandwich depending 
on the strength of the cheese you select as well as 
your own tastes. 84GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENWind y  C i t y 
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  2
Chicago is famous for many things, including its lake - 
shore, architecture, long-winded politicians, deep-
dish pizza, and a sandwich called the Italian Beef. 
The classic version features hot roast beef and a 
pickled vegetable relish called 
giardiniera.
 Nate, who 
grew up in Chicago, had the brilliant idea of turning 
that roast beast into a grilled cheese. 
We make our own giardiniera for the restaurant, 
dicing the veggies small so that the chunks can be 
distributed evenly in the sandwiches, and we include 
our recipe in this book. But if you are lucky enough to 
find a good-quality jar of this delicious condiment (try 
your local Italian specialty-foods store), you are wel
-
come to use that instead; just chop it before using.
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature 
½ tsp garlic powder
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
4 slices provolone cheese 
6 oz [170 g] thinly sliced roast beef
⅓ cup [75 g] Giardiniera (page 149), drained1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and  
garlic powder until well blended. 
3) Spread the garlic butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. L ayer 
one slice of the provolone, half of the roast beef, half 
of the giardiniera, and another slice of the provolone 
on top of each. Finish with the remaining slices of 
bread, buttered-  side up . 
4) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches 
in the pan and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. 
5) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.85GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBThe origin of this sandwich is probably pretty obvious. 
I just took a classic, old-fashioned “fancy” meal and 
turned it into a grilled cheese. If you cannot find 
garlic or herb Jack, try sprinkling ½ tsp garlic powder 
on the potato slices before roasting; a little punch of 
garlic in this sandwich is divine. 
1 small Yukon gold potato, scrubbed but not 
peeled, cut into slices about ¼ in [6 mm] thick 
½ tsp olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature 
4 fresh chives, minced
¼ cup [55 g] crème fraîche, sour cream, or plain 
Greek yogurt 
2 Tbsp prepared horseradish, not cream style 
4 slices rustic artisan bread such as levain, 
sourdough, or white 
4 slices garlic or herb Jack cheese
6 oz [170 g] thinly sliced roast beef 
1) Preheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil. 
2) In a bowl, combine the potato slices with the 
olive oil and a pinch each of salt and pepper and toss gently until the potatoes are evenly coated. Spread 
the potatoes in a single layer on the prepared baking 
sheet and roast until cooked through and starting to 
brown in spots, about 15 minutes. Set aside. 
3) In a small bowl, stir together the butter and 
chives until well blended. In another small bowl, stir 
together the crème fraîche and horseradish until well 
combined. Set both bowls aside. (Store, covered 
tightly with plastic wrap, in the refrigerator for up 
 
to 3 days.)
4) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
5) Spread the chive butter on one side of each 
bread slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, 
buttered-  side down, on a clean cutting board. L ayer 
one slice of the Jack, half of the roast beef, three or 
four potato slices, and then another slice of the Jack 
on top of each. Finish with the remaining slices of 
bread, buttered-  side up . 
6) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 4 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 4 minutes longer. 
7) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
with the horseradish cream on the side for dipping. Amer i c a n D i p
 Grilled Cheese
SePveB  286GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENSt. P a t r ick’ s  D a y  
Grilled Cheese 
SePveB  4
Everyone is Irish on St. Patrick’s Day, and the grilled 
cheeses need to be Irish, too. One March afternoon, 
I took the leftovers from a traditional St. Patrick’s Day 
feast—corned beef and cabbage with potatoes and 
fresh Irish soda bread—and spent an afternoon in 
 
the test kitchen. 
Sláinte!
 (Cheers!) Of course you 
 
can make it into a grilled cheese. And a darn tasty 
one at that. I recommend serving this with a pint of 
Guinness, of course. 
BRAISED CABBAGE
¼ small head green cabbage, stem portion 
removed, separated into leaves
1½ cups [360 ml] beer, preferably Guinness or 
other dark Irish beer
1 Tbsp kosher salt 
MASHED POTATOES 
1 medium Yukon gold potato, peeled and cut into 
½-in [12 -mm] cubes
1 tsp kosher salt
2 tsp salted butter, at room temperature 
1 Tbsp whole milk or cream
1 Tbsp prepared horseradish, not cream style 
(optional)
 2 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
8 slices Irish Soda Bread (page 88)
4 tsp stone-ground mustard
8 slices porter Cheddar or Irish Cheddar cheese
12 oz [340 g] cooked, thinly sliced corned beef
1) To make the cabbage: In a small saucepan 
over medium heat, combine the cabbage, beer, and 
salt. Stir to mix and bring to a boil. Stir again, cover 
loosely, and lower the heat so the beer is simmering 
gently. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage 
is tender, about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat, 
drain the cabbage, and set aside. 
2) Meanwhile, make the mashed potatoes: Place 
the potato and salt in a small saucepan and add cold 
water to just cover. Bring to a boil over medium heat, 
then lower the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. 
Cover and cook for about 10 minutes, or until the 
potato is soft and beginning to fall apart. Remove 
from the heat, drain, and then add the hot potato to 
a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or 
to a medium bowl with a handheld mixer. Add the 
butter and milk and blend on medium speed just 
until smooth, 20 to 30 seconds. Be careful not to 
overbeat and don’t worry about getting your mashed 
potatoes perfectly smooth; some chunks are fine. Stir 
in the horseradish (if using) and set aside. 87GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheB3) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
4) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place two slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board. Spread 1 tsp of 
the mustard on each. Layer one slice of the Cheddar, 
¼ cup [55 g] of the mashed potatoes, one-fourth of 
the corned beef, two leaves (cut to approximately the 
size of the bread) of the braised cabbage, and then 
a second slice of Cheddar on top. Finish with two 
slices of bread, buttered-  side up .5) Using a wide spatula, place both sandwiches in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottoms are nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second sides are browned and the cheese is melted, 
about 3 minutes longer. Repeat, assembling and 
cooking the remaining two sandwiches.
6) Cut the sandwiches in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.88GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENIrish Soda Bread
MPkeB  1 lI PP
Traditional Irish soda bread is so easy to make and so wonderful when it’s fresh. It’s usually 
formed into a round and baked on a baking sheet, but we bake ours in a loaf pan so it’s easier 
to slice into sandwich slices. We like to make it as part of an Irish dinner and then use the left
-
overs the next day for St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese. 
3½ cups [445 g] all-purpose flour (see Note)
¼ cup [50 g] granulated sugar
1 tsp baking soda
1½ tsp kosher salt
2 Tbsp caraway seeds (optional, but 
highly recommended)
1 egg
1 cup [240 ml] buttermilk (see Note)
¼ cup [45 g] dried currants or raisins 
(optional)
1) Preheat the oven to 400°F [220°C]. 
Butter a 9-by-5-in [23-by-12 -cm] loaf pan 
and set aside. 
2) In a large bowl, stir together the flour, 
sugar, baking soda, salt, and caraway 
seeds (if using) with a whisk and set aside. 
In a small bowl, whisk the egg to blend 
and then whisk in the buttermilk. Add the 
buttermilk mixture and currants (if using) 
to the flour mixture and stir with a wooden 
spoon until the dough is shaggy but no floury 
streaks remain, about 1 minute. Scrape the 
dough onto a floured cutting board or work 
surface and knead for about 1 minute, until 
the dough comes together in a ball. (The dough will be sticky, so add flour to the 
 
board and your hands as needed.) Pat 
 
the dough into an oblong shape about the 
same length as the loaf pan and then place 
the dough in the pan. Cut a slit about 1 in 
[2.5 cm] deep down the center of the loaf 
with a sharp knife.
3) Bake for 15 minutes, then lower the 
oven temperature to 375°F [190°C] and bake 
for about 20 minutes longer, or until the 
top is evenly browned and the loaf sounds 
hollow when you tilt it out of the pan and 
tap it on the bottom. Let cool completely to 
room temperature before slicing. Wrap any 
unused bread tightly and store at room tem
-
perature for up to 2 days or freeze for up to 
1 month, warming in a 350°F [180°C] oven 
for 10 to 12 minutes before serving. 
NoteS: You can substitute stone-ground 
whole-wheat flour for up to one-third of the 
all-purpose flour in this recipe. 
If you don’t have buttermilk on hand, 
you can “sour” regular milk by adding 2 tsp 
white vinegar or lemon juice to a measuring 
cup and then adding whole milk to equal 
1 cup [240 ml]. Stir and let sit for 1 minute 
before using. Don’t be alarmed; the milk 
will curdle slightly. 
89GPilleI CheeBe SPnIGicheBGrilled cheese, meet Reuben. Reuben, meet grilled 
cheese. The only secret here is to use the highest-
 
quality ingredients you can find. We use pastrami 
on ours, but a traditional Reuben sandwich can be 
invoked by substituting corned beef. Swiss is the 
cheese of choice here, but I like the extra flavor 
added by Gruyère, so I use both. This is a grilled 
cheese, after all. 
Oh, and for the Reuben traditionalists, we leave 
off the Russian dressing—there’s enough going on 
without it, and it makes the sandwich extra messy. 
But if you rue the absence, just mix together 1 tsp 
ketchup and 1 tsp mayonnaise in a small bowl and 
spread it on the inside of the top piece of bread.
1½ tsp salted butter, at room temperature
2 slices light rye bread (see Note) 
1½ tsp stone-ground mustard
1 slice Gruyère cheese
3 oz [85 g] thinly sliced pastrami
2 Tbsp sauerkraut, drained and patted dry with a 
paper towel
4 Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles (page 147) 
1 slice Jarlsberg or Emmenthaler cheese1) Heat a cast-iron or nonstick skillet over medium-  
low heat.
2) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place one slice, buttered-  side 
down, on a clean cutting board. Spread with the  
mustard. Layer the Gruyère, pastrami, sauerkraut, 
pickle chips, and Jarlsberg on top.  Finish with the  
second slice of bread, buttered-  side up . 
3) Using a wide spatula, place the sandwich in 
the pan, cover, and cook until the bottom is nicely 
browned, about 3 minutes. Turn and cook until the 
second side is browned and the cheese is melted, 
3 to 4 minutes longer. 
4) Cut the sandwich in half, if desired, and serve 
immediately.
Note: You can use dark rye bread in this  
recipe, but the higher percentage of rye flour 
 
makes the bread more crumbly when toasted, 
 
and you may need a knife and fork.Reub e ne s q ue 
Grilled Cheese
SePveB  1  90GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENGrilled Cheese 
Birth d a y Ca k e 
SePveB  15 t I  20
I call this savory assembly a “birthday cake,” but I’ve 
served it at weddings too, and I’ve never seen an 
actual cake disappear so fast. Kids especially love 
being able to reach in and pull a piece of sandwich 
out of the tantalizing tower. 
Time is of the essence; it’s best when the sand
-
wiches are still hot. There are a lot of moving parts 
that make it tricky for one person to get the timing 
right; enlisting two or even three people will make 
the process smooth like butter. 
You will need three nested springform pans, 
approximately 6 in [15 cm], 8 in [20 cm], and 10 in 
[25 cm]; three large baking sheets; and an electric 
griddle or stove-top griddle pan. If you can find bread 
you like made in the round loaves called 
boules,
 they 
are easier to work with for this recipe—the curves 
of the bread fit better into the springform pans than 
rectangular loaves.
1 cup [220 g] salted butter, at room temperature
42 slices rustic artisan bread such as sourdough or 
levain, preferably cut from 5 to 6 
boules
 (see recipe 
introduction)
21 slices mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar cheese
21 slices Monterey Jack cheese
14 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp 
and drained 2 jalapeño chiles, cut crosswise into slices about  
¼ in [6 mm] thick (see Note, page 150)
1 can processed cheese spread with a decorative 
nozzle, any flavor (optional, but hilarious)
1) Spread the butter on one side of each bread 
slice, dividing it evenly. Place ten slices, buttered-  
side down, on a clean cutting board or counter top. 
Place one slice of Cheddar, one slice of Jack, and 
another slice of bread, buttered-  side up , on top of 
each. Move the ten plain cheese sandwiches onto 
one of the baking sheets (it’s okay to crowd them). 
2) Next, place seven pieces of bread, buttered-  
side down, on the cutting board. Place one slice of Cheddar, two strips of bacon, one slice of Jack, and 
another slice of bread, buttered-  side up , on top of 
each. Move the seven bacon-cheese sandwiches 
onto the second baking sheet. 
3) Next, place four pieces of bread, buttered-  side 
down, on the cutting board. Place one slice of Ched - 
dar, three or four rounds of jalapeño, one slice of 
Jack, and another slice of bread, buttered-  side up , on 
top of each. Move the jalapeño-cheese sandwiches onto the third baking sheet. (At this point, you can 
wrap the baking sheets tightly with plastic wrap and 
refrigerate for up to 1 day.) 
CONT’D92GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN4) Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C] and preheat 
your griddle to medium-  high. While the oven is  
heating, get your workspace ready for assembly. 
Have a spatula, clean cutting board, and bread 
knife close by. Remove the bottoms from all of the 
springform pans. Place a serving platter at least 
12 in [30.5 cm] in diameter nearby and place the 
large springform ring, snapped closed, on top of 
the serving platter. (Or just assemble on your serving 
surface.)
5) Place the baking sheet with the plain cheese 
sandwiches in the oven and bake for 2 to 3 minutes, 
or until the cheese is beginning to melt. (If the sand -
wiches came straight from the refrigerator, it may 
take another minute or two.) The bread will not be 
very brown, but don’t worry; this step is to get the 
cheese melting. Remove the baking sheet from 
 
the oven, set aside, and put the bacon sandwiches 
in the oven for 2 to 3 minutes. Meanwhile, move the 
plain sandwiches to the hot griddle. Watch the sand
-
wiches on the griddle carefully; they will toast quickly, 
30 to 60 seconds on the first side. Turn and brown 
on the second side, then transfer to a cutting board. 
The bacon sandwiches should be coming out of 
 
the oven right about the time the plain sandwiches 
are coming off the griddle. When there is space 
on the griddle, add the bacon sandwiches, and 
place the jalapeño sandwiches in the oven for 2 to 
3 minutes. Continue in this manner until all of the 
sandwiches have been baked and grilled. 6) Working quickly, fit about four whole hot plain 
grilled cheeses into the largest springform ring, 
directly on the serving platter. Cut pieces out of a fifth 
grilled cheese to fill in any sizeable gaps in the first 
layer. (If you have helpers, one can tackle this step 
while someone else toasts the sandwiches on the 
griddle.) Repeat to make a second layer in the large 
springform ring with the remaining plain sandwiches. 
Arrange the second layer so that the seams between 
individual sandwiches and pieces are offset. This 
should use up most or all of the ten plain grilled 
cheeses. 
7) Place the medium springform ring, snapped 
closed, directly on top of the assembled bottom 
layer, and then repeat this process to fill with the 
bacon sandwiches. Then place the smallest spring
-
form ring directly on top of the medium layer and 
repeat with the jalapeño sandwiches. 
8) Unlatch the smallest springform ring to widen 
it and carefully lift it off the top layer. Then unlatch 
and remove the middle ring, and finally remove 
the bottom ring. Tuck in any sandwich pieces that 
become dislodged. If desired, decorate the cake with 
the processed cheese spread (florets on each layer 
are easiest). 
9) Serve immediately, but don’t cut the cake—tell 
your guests to pull out the piece they want. SOU PSoup is grilled cheese’s partner in crime  (or lunchtime). 
Tomato soup and a simple Cheddar grilled cheese is an iconic 
combination, and our quick, savory Ten-Minute Tomato Soup 
is optimized for that kind of dipping. In fact, it pairs well with all 
the grilled cheeses in this book. The soup kitchen on display in 
this chapter features a number of other puréed soups such as 
cauliflower, broccoli, potato, celery, and butternut squash that also 
make great dipping and sipping companions to the sandwiches in 
this book, plus an assortment of chunky soups to serve on the side. 
When pairing soup and grilled cheese, think about complementary 
flavors and textures. A soup with a bright bite of fresh vegetables, 
like Broccoli-Cheddar Soup (page 98), Celery Purée Soup 
(page 102), or Spiced Coconut-Carrot Soup (page 110), will play well 
with heartier sandwiches such as the American Dip Grilled Cheese 
(page 85) or Cubano Grilled Cheese (page 72). The richer mixes 
like Baked Potato Soup (page 100), Pulled Pork Stew (page 115), 
and American Chili (page 116) will shine when paired with a simpler 
sandwich such as the Mousetrap Grilled Cheese (page 38) with 
roasted tomatoes or Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese (page 42). 97 SIIpThis simple, smooth tomato soup is the result of 
months of dedicated testing. I wanted the ultimate 
dipping soup: smooth and savory, with an acidic bite 
and chile kick to balance out a rich and hearty grilled 
cheese. I tried dozens of combinations of spices 
before I hit on the combination of smoky Spanish 
pimentón
 and the complex, fruity chile from Basque 
country in France called 
piment d’Espelette,
 both 
well known to enhance the flavor of tomatoes. 
Strained tomatoes are a very smooth purée, 
and are key to the texture and simplicity of this soup. 
We like Pomi and Strianese brands, which can be 
found in many grocery stores. Top with your favorite 
croutons to add a little crunch. You can make this 
soup gluten-free by simply substituting gluten-free 
flour mix for the all-purpose flour. 
3 Tbsp salted butter
2 Tbsp all-purpose flour
1 tsp sugar
½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp
 pimentón
 (smoked paprika)
½ tsp 
piment d’Espelette 
chile powder or 
cayenne pepper 3¼ cups [780 ml] strained tomatoes 
2¼ cups [540 ml] chicken stock 
1 tsp balsamic vinegar
Crème fraîche, sour cream, or plain Greek yogurt 
for garnish
1) In a small soup pot over medium-  low heat, melt 
the butter. When the butter is melted, whisk in the 
flour, sugar, salt, 
pimentón,
 and 
piment d’Espelette.
 
Cook, whisking constantly, until the mixture has a 
nutty, savory aroma, about 3 minutes. 
2) Whisk the strained tomatoes, chicken stock, and 
vinegar into the butter mixture until smooth. Raise 
the heat to bring to a simmer, stirring occasionally, 
and simmer gently for about 5 minutes. 
3) Ladle the soup into bowls, garnish with a dollop 
of crème fraiche, and serve immediately. Ten-Minute 
Toma t o
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh98GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBroc c oli- C h e dd a r 
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh
Broccoli soup has long been recognized as a leading 
way to get kids (and some adults) to eat broccoli. 
We’ve all had prepared brands of this soup, but it can 
be a revelation when made from scratch at home—
the flavors are fresh and bright and you’ll never buy 
canned again. The Cheddar is an accent note rather 
than the dominating flavor in this version, and the 
chile powder adds just a little kick. Don’t throw away 
those broccoli stems—peel the tough outer skin, then 
shred them and toss into Kale Slaw (page 163).
1 Tbsp salted butter
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ½ -in [12 -mm] dice
1 medium carrot, peeled and cut into ½ -in  
[12-mm] dice
1 garlic clove, minced
1½ lb [680 g] broccoli florets, coarsely chopped 
4 cups [960 ml] chicken stock
1 bay leaf
½ tsp minced fresh thyme or ¼ tsp dried thyme
½ tsp 
piment d’Espelette
 chile powder or 
cayenne pepper 
½ cup [120 ml] heavy cream
1¼ cups [170 g] shredded mild, medium, or 
sharp Cheddar cheese
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper1) In a small soup pot over medium heat, melt  
the butter. Add the onion and carrot and cook, 
 
stirring often, until the vegetables have softened 
 
and the onion is translucent, about 8 minutes. Add 
the garlic and cook, stirring, for 1 minute longer. 
2) Add the broccoli, chicken stock, bay leaf, thyme, 
and piment  d’Espelette   and stir to combine. Raise 
the heat to bring to a low boil, then lower the heat 
to maintain a gentle simmer. Cover and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the broccoli is very soft, about 
30 minutes. Remove from the heat and discard 
 
the bay leaf. 
3) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup 
will blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) 
Add the cream and blend for a few seconds more. 
4) Return the soup to the stove and reheat gently 
over low heat. Add the cheese and stir in one direc
-
tion until the cheese is fully melted into the soup. 
Season with salt and black pepper. 
5) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately.99 SIIpThis soup comes together quickly and is loaded  
with healthful vegetables. It’s hearty enough to be 
a meal by itself, or makes a great soup-and-salad 
lunch combination. We use dinosaur kale, so-called 
because the pebbled dark green leaves look like 
dinosaur skin, but you can use regular green kale, 
 
or even green or red chard, if dinosaur kale is not 
readily available. The easiest way to remove the 
 
ribs and chop the kale is to hold the stem of each 
leaf in one hand, place the thumb and forefinger of 
your other hand at the base of the leaf and pull your 
hand up the rib, stripping the leaf right off the rib. 
Then stack the stripped leaves neatly, roll together 
into a tight bundle, and chop the roll into pieces. 
1 Tbsp olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 garlic cloves, minced 
About 1 lb [455 g] dinosaur (also called Lacinato or 
Tuscan) kale, tough stems and ribs removed, leaves 
coarsely chopped (into about 1-in [2.5 -cm] pieces)
3 medium Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cut into 
½-in [12 -mm] cubes
1 large ripe tomato, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
4 cups [960 ml] vegetable stock One 15-oz [425-g] can cannellini beans, drained 
and rinsed 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1) In a small soup pot over medium heat, warm the 
olive oil. Add the onion and cook, stirring often, for 
about 5 minutes, or until the onion is softened and 
translucent. 
2) Add the garlic and kale and stir for 1 minute to 
wilt the kale. Add the potatoes, tomato, and vegeta
-
ble stock and stir to combine. Raise the heat to bring 
to a low boil, then lower the heat to maintain a gentle 
simmer. Cover and cook until the potatoes are tender 
throughout, about 15 minutes. Stir in the beans and 
simmer for about 10 minutes longer. Season with salt 
and pepper. 
3) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately.Kale : P ot a t o  
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh100GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENThis thick and creamy elixir is one of the most popular 
soups we’ve created. We call it Baked Potato Soup 
because the potatoes, chives, and cream make it 
taste just like a loaded baked potato in soup form. 
 
It’s a great dunking soup that goes well with all of 
 
our sandwiches, but we particularly like it with the 
 
American Dip Grilled Cheese (page 85)—the horse -
radish cream featured there is also the perfect garnish 
for this soup. Just spoon a dollop on top of each bowl 
before serving.
4 cups [960 ml] hot water
1½ lb [680 g] russet potatoes, peeled and cut 
 
into ½-in [12 -mm] cubes
Kosher salt
2 Tbsp salted butter
1 shallot, minced
1 small leek, trimmed and tough green tops 
removed, halved lengthwise and carefully washed, 
cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice 
2 large garlic cloves, minced
2½ cups [600 ml] chicken stock
2 cups [480 ml] whole milk
½ cup [120 ml] heavy creamFreshly ground black pepper 
Chopped crisp-cooked bacon and minced fresh 
chives for garnish 
1) In a small soup pot over medium-  high heat, com -
bine the water, potatoes, and 1 Tbsp salt and bring to 
a boil. Lower the heat to maintain a gentle boil and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes are very 
soft and falling apart, about 15 minutes. Drain the 
potatoes in a colander, then return them to the pot 
and set aside.
2) While the potatoes are cooking, heat a medium 
skillet over medium-  low heat. Add 1 Tbsp of the  
 butter, the shallot, and leek and cook, stirring often, 
until the vegetables have softened, about 6 minutes. 
Add the garlic and cook, stirring, for 1 minute longer. 
Remove from the heat and set aside. 
3) Return the pot with the potatoes to medium-  high 
heat and add the chicken stock, milk, and cooked 
vegetables. Bring to a low boil, then lower the heat to 
maintain a gentle simmer. Cover partially and cook, 
stirring often, until the potatoes are very mushy, 
about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in 
the heavy cream and remaining 1 Tbsp butter.Bake d P ot a t o  
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh101 SIIp4) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup 
will blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) 
Season with salt and pepper. 
5) Ladle the soup into bowls, sprinkle with the 
bacon and chives, and serve immediately. 102GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENCele r y P u ré e 
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh
This creamy soup, redolent of celery and thyme, 
pairs perfectly with grilled cheese, and is particularly 
good with the Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese 
(page 46). Don’t worry that the celery fibers don’t 
fully break down. I like the bit of texture that they 
add, but if you like your soup perfectly smooth, just 
press it through a sieve in a few small batches and 
discard the celery fibers.
3 Tbsp salted butter
1 medium head celery, leafy tops and tough base 
removed, stalks coarsely chopped
½ lb [230 g] Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and 
coarsely chopped 
1 medium yellow onion, coarsely chopped
1 garlic clove, minced 
½ cup [120 ml] dry white wine such as Sauvignon 
Blanc or Chardonnay
1 tsp minced fresh thyme or ½ tsp dried thyme
4 cups [960 ml] chicken stock 
⅓ cup [80 ml] heavy cream 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 1) In a small soup pot over medium-  low heat, melt 
the butter. Add the celery, potatoes, onion, and garlic 
and cook, stirring often, until the vegetables have 
softened and are translucent, about 15 minutes. 
2) Add the wine and thyme to the vegetables, 
raise the heat to medium-  high, and cook, stirring 
often, until the wine is reduced by about half, about 
5 minutes. 
3) Add the chicken stock, cover, and bring to a low 
boil, then lower the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. 
Cook until the potatoes are very soft and falling 
apart, about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat 
 
and stir in the cream. 
4) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup 
will blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) 
Season with salt and pepper. 
5) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. 103 SIIpDon’t even try to compare this elegant concoction to 
canned cream of mushroom soup. Fresh, home  m ade, 
earthy, and herbal—it’s a whole different ball game, 
and a true treat for mushroom lovers. This soup 
pairs nicely with pretty much every grilled cheese in 
the book. I like this soup with nice chunks of mush
-
rooms remaining, but you can purée the soup until 
smooth if you prefer. 
2 Tbsp salted butter 
1½ tsp olive oil 
1 small shallot, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
6 oz [170 g] cremini mushrooms, brushed clean 
and sliced 
5 oz [140 g] shiitake mushrooms, stemmed, 
brushed clean, and sliced 
5 oz [140 g] button mushrooms, brushed clean 
and sliced 
1 Tbsp all-purpose flour 
3 cups [720 ml] vegetable stock 
3 Tbsp cooking sherry
1 tsp minced fresh thyme or ½ tsp dried thyme
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 Tbsp heavy cream1) In a small soup pot over medium heat, warm the  
butter with the olive oil until the butter is mostly melted. 
 
Add the shallot and sauté until softened, about 3 min
-
utes. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute longer.
2) Add all of the mushrooms and stir to coat with 
the fat. Add the flour, vegetable stock, sherry, thyme, 
1 tsp salt, and 1 tsp pepper and stir to combine. 
 
Raise the heat to bring to a boil, then turn the heat to 
medium-  low , cover, and simmer gently until the mush -
rooms are very tender, about 15 minutes. Remove from 
the heat.
3) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
very briefly, just about 5 seconds—you want to 
thicken the soup but leave lots of nice chunks of 
mushroom. (If you don’t have an immersion blender, 
blend 1 cup [240 ml] of the soup in a blender on low 
speed for 5 seconds. Remove the plug from the lid, 
cover the lid with a clean towel, and hold down 
 
the lid while blending, or the hot soup might blow 
the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen. Return the 
puréed portion to the pot and stir to combine.) Taste 
and adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir in 
the cream. 
4) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. lusci o u s  M u s h r o o m 
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh105 SIIpThis chowder is a popular special during the summer; 
we often go through fifty ears of just-picked corn a 
day. The sweet corn shines through the cream and 
herbs, while the potatoes add body, and a pinch of 
chile powder adds a little kick to cut through the rich
-
ness of the cream. Serve this with a salad made with 
ripe, fresh heirloom tomatoes. To cut kernels from a 
fresh cob of corn, cut the cob in half crosswise, stand 
the halves up on the thicker end on a clean cutting 
board and then carefully run a sharp knife down all 
sides of the standing cob to cut off the kernels. 
1 Tbsp salted butter
1½ tsp olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 large garlic clove, minced
1 tsp minced fresh thyme or ½ tsp dried thyme
1 Tbsp plus 2 tsp all-purpose flour
3 cups [720 ml] vegetable stock
¾ cup [180 ml] heavy cream 
2 medium Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cut into 
¼-in [6 -mm] dice
Kernels from 3 ears fresh corn or 2 cups [340 g] 
frozen corn kernels, drained¾ tsp 
piment d’Espelette
 chile powder or cayenne 
pepper 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
1) In a medium soup pot over medium heat, melt 
the butter in the olive oil. Add the onion and cook, 
stirring often, until translucent, about 8 minutes. Add 
the garlic and thyme and cook for 1 minute longer. 
2) Sprinkle the flour into the onion mixture gradu - 
ally, whisking constantly to prevent lumps. Stir in the 
 
vegetable stock and raise the heat to bring to a low 
boil. Add the cream and potatoes and return to a boil. 
Lower the heat to maintain a gentle simmer, cover, and 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes can be 
easily pierced with a fork, about 7 minutes. 
3) Stir in the corn and piment d’Espelette  and sea - 
son with salt and pepper. Simmer, stirring occasion
-
ally, until the corn is tender, about 10 minutes longer. 
Remove from the heat and stir in the parsley. 
4) Ladle the chowder into bowls and serve 
immediately.Fres h  C o r n 
Chow d er 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh107 SIIpI roast the cauliflower before adding it to this soup, 
which produces a delicious caramelized flavor that is 
perfectly complemented by the light touch of curry. 
1 large head cauliflower, cut into 2-in [5 -cm] chunks 
1 Tbsp olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp salted butter
½ medium yellow onion, diced 
1 garlic clove, minced
3 Tbsp all-purpose flour
1 cup [240 ml] whole milk
½ cup [120 ml] heavy cream
2 cups [480 ml] vegetable stock 
2 tsp curry powder
¼ tsp cayenne pepper
5 oz [140 g] mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded, plus more for garnish
Minced fresh chives for garnish (optional)
1) Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil.
2) In a large bowl, combine the cauliflower, olive 
oil, ½ tsp salt, and ½ tsp black pepper and toss to 
mix well. Spread the cauliflower in a single layer on the prepared baking sheet and bake until softened 
and lightly browned, about 20 minutes. Let cool on 
the pan.
3) In a small soup pot over medium-  low heat, melt 
the butter. Add the onion and sauté until soft and 
translucent, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté 
for 1 minute longer (do not let the garlic burn). Whisk 
in the flour and cook for 1 minute, stirring constantly. 
Whisk in the milk, cream, and vegetable stock. Add 
the roasted cauliflower, curry powder, and cayenne 
pepper and stir to combine. Raise the heat to bring 
to a low boil, then turn the heat to low, cover, and 
simmer until the cauliflower is soft and easily pierced 
with a fork, about 15 minutes longer. Add the cheese 
and stir in one direction until the cheese is fully 
melted into the soup. Remove from the heat.
4) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup will 
 
blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) Taste 
and adjust the  seasoning with salt and black pepper . 
5) Ladle the soup into bowls, sprinkle with  
the chives (if using) and more cheese, and serve 
immediately. Curr y - C a u l if l o w e r 
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh108GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENButt e r n u t  S q u a s h 
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh
I love the silky-smooth texture of this gorgeous, 
golden butternut squash soup. Pair it with the 
Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled Cheese (page 66) 
 
for the ultimate post-holiday meal. The sweetness 
 
of the butternut squash is perfectly offset by the 
savory onion and chicken stock. How is this butternut 
squash soup different from all of the others? We add 
garam masala, a spice mix from northern India, and 
coconut milk for a truly distinctive flavor. 
One 2-lb [910-g] butternut squash, halved 
lengthwise, seeds and strings removed
2 tsp olive oil
1 Tbsp salted butter
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 large garlic clove, minced
3 cups [720 ml] chicken stock 
1 tsp garam masala
½ tsp minced fresh thyme or ¼ tsp dried thyme 
½ tsp minced fresh sage or ¼ tsp dried rubbed 
sage, crumbled
Pinch of cayenne pepper
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
½ cup [120 ml] Thai-style canned coconut milk 
 
or heavy cream1) Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a baking 
sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil. 
2) Brush the cut sides of the squash with the olive  
oil and place both halves, cut-side down, on the 
 
prepared baking sheet. Pierce the skin of both halves 
several times with a fork or sharp knife. Roast until 
the flesh is soft and easily pierced with a fork and 
the skin is beginning to brown, about 30 min  u tes. Let 
cool until easy to handle, then scrape the flesh of 
the squash out of the skin and onto a cutting board. 
Coarsely chop the roasted squash and set aside. 
Discard the skin. 
3) In a medium soup pot over medium-  low heat, 
melt the butter. Add the onion and cook, stirring 
often, until the onion is translucent, about 8 minutes. 
Add the garlic and cook, stirring, for 1 minute longer. 
4) Add the roasted squash, chicken stock, garam 
masala, thyme, sage, cayenne pepper, 1 tsp salt, 
and ½ tsp black pepper and stir to combine. Raise 
the heat to bring to a low boil, then lower the heat 
to maintain a gentle simmer. Cover and cook until 
the squash is very mushy, about 15 minutes. Remove 
from the heat.109 SIIp5) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup will 
blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) Add 
the coconut milk and blend for a few seconds more. 
Return the soup to the stove and reheat gently over 
low heat, if needed. Taste and adjust the seasoning 
with salt and black pepper. 
6) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. 110GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENSpiced 
Coco n ut- C ar r o t 
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh
This creamy (but cream-free) carrot soup is fragrant 
with exotic spices. The sweetness of the carrots is 
 
balanced by the richness of coconut milk and a bright 
note of orange juice. This is also a phenomenal soup 
to dunk a grilled cheese in—it coats the sandwich 
just right. This beautifully hued soup is particularly 
delicious with Moroccan Chicken Grilled Cheese 
(page 58) and The Catch Grilled Cheese (page 55). 
2 Tbsp salted butter
1 large yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1½ lb [680 g] carrots, peeled and cut into ½ -in 
[12-mm] cubes
1 large garlic clove, minced
1 Tbsp ground ginger
1 tsp curry powder
1 tsp ground coriander
½ tsp dry mustard powder 
4 cups [960 ml] chicken stock
1 cup [240 ml] Thai-style canned coconut milk
½ cup [120 ml] fresh orange juice 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper1) In a medium soup pot over medium heat, melt 
the butter. Add the onion and carrots and cook, 
 
stirring often, until the carrots have softened and 
 
the onion is translucent, about 8 minutes. 
2) Add the garlic, ginger, curry powder, coriander, 
and mustard powder and cook, stirring, until aromatic, 
 
about 1 minute. Add the chicken stock and coconut 
milk and stir to combine. Raise the heat to bring 
to a low boil, then lower the heat to maintain a 
gentle simmer. Cover and cook until the carrots 
are very soft and easily pierced with a fork, about 
30 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the 
orange juice. 
3) Use an immersion blender to blend the soup 
into a smooth purée in the pot. (If you don’t have 
an immersion blender, purée the soup in a blender, 
working in batches on low speed. Remove the plug 
from the lid, cover the lid with a clean towel, and 
hold down the lid while blending, or the hot soup 
will blow the lid off and make a mess in the kitchen.) 
Return the soup to the stove and reheat gently over 
low heat, if needed. Season with salt and pepper. 
4) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. 111 SIIpSometimes folks just want a vegetable-packed, 
super-healthful lunch. In my case, I want my lunch 
to be half a grilled cheese sandwich with a cup of 
vegetable-packed soup. This soup is easy to make, 
fresh and delicious, and reheats well. I like to make 
a batch early in the week and bring it to work for a 
quick, healthy, no-fuss lunch. 
2 tsp olive oil 
1 small white onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 medium carrots, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 celery stalks, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 large garlic clove, minced
4 cups [960 ml] vegetable stock
⅔ cup [130 g] dried split peas
1 medium Yukon gold potato, peeled and cut into 
¼-in [6 -mm] dice
1 bay leaf
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
½ tsp ground cumin
¼ tsp ground coriander
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley1) In a small soup pot over medium-  low heat, warm 
the olive oil. Add the onion, carrots, and celery and 
cook, stirring often, until the vegetables have soft
-
ened, about 8 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook for 
1 minute longer. 
2) Add the vegetable stock, split peas, potato, bay 
leaf, ½ tsp salt, ½ tsp pepper, cumin, and coriander 
and stir to combine. Raise the heat to bring to a low 
boil, then lower the heat to maintain a gentle simmer. 
Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the peas 
are soft, about 30 minutes. Taste and adjust the 
seasoning with salt and pepper. Stir in the parsley 
and discard the bay leaf. 
3) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. Split  P e a 
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh113 SIIpLoaded with healthful vegetables and protein-rich 
lentils, this chunky easy-to-make soup is hearty 
enough to make a meal by itself, but we recommend 
you pair it with a simple sandwich like the Mouse
-
trap Grilled Cheese (page 38). The acidity from the 
tomato paste and the smoky flavor from the bacon 
and 
pimentón
 are great foils for the buttery rich
-
ness of the sandwich. If you wish to make this soup 
vegetarian, you can use vegetable stock instead of 
chicken stock and omit the bacon; the 
pimentón
 
 
will still supply plenty of smoke. 
2 tsp olive oil 
1 small white onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
2 celery stalks, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 large garlic cloves, minced
One 6-oz [170-g] can tomato paste
4 cups [960 ml] chicken stock
¾ cup [150 g] green lentils 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
¾ tsp 
pimentón
 (smoked paprika)
2 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp, 
drained, and coarsely chopped 1) In a small soup pot over medium-  low heat, warm 
the olive oil. Add the onion, carrots, and celery and 
cook, stirring often, until the vegetables have soft
-
ened, about 8 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook for 
1 minute longer. 
2) Stir in the tomato paste, chicken stock, lentils, 
1½ tsp salt, ½ tsp pepper, and the 
pimentón
. Raise 
the heat to bring to a low boil, then lower the heat to 
maintain a gentle simmer. Cover and cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the lentils are very tender, about 
30 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the 
bacon. Taste and adjust the seasoning with salt 
and pepper. 
3) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve immediately. Smoky L e n t i l  
Soup 
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh114GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENWhit e  B e an : H a m 
Soup
SePveB  6 P B P BiIe IiBh  
Comforting with smoky ham and nourishing white 
navy beans, this satisfying soup gets a bright herbal 
note from rosemary and is great on a cold night. Pair 
it with a Reubenesque Grilled Cheese (page 89) or a 
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese (page 56), or serve 
it for supper with a simple green salad and a hunk of 
French bread. 
2 Tbsp salted butter
1 medium white onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
2 celery stalks, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
5 cups [1.2 L] chicken stock
One 15-oz [425-g] can navy beans, drained 
and rinsed 
8 oz [240 g] ham, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice 
½ tsp minced fresh rosemary or ¼ tsp dried 
rosemary, crumbled
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper 1) In a small soup pot over medium heat, melt the 
butter. Add the onion, carrots, and celery and cook, 
stirring often, until the vegetables have softened and 
the onion is translucent, about 8 minutes. 
2) Add the chicken stock, beans, ham, and rose - 
mary and stir to combine. Bring to a low boil, then 
turn the heat to low, cover partially, and simmer 
 
gently until the beans are heated through and soft 
but not yet falling apart and the vegetables are very 
soft, about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and 
stir in the parsley. Season with salt and pepper. 
3) Ladle the soup into bowls and serve 
immediately. 115 SIIpI developed this recipe when I realized how much 
flavor was left in the pan after I made slow-cooked 
pulled pork. The staff were saving the drippings and 
smearing them on bread as a snack, and I knew I 
had to find other delicious uses for the concentrated 
flavors of this overlooked gift. I added a variety of 
vegetables to complement the smoky flavors of the 
pork rub, including leeks, potatoes, mushrooms, and 
fennel—and just like that, a pretty spectacular stew 
was born. Serve with a hunk of crusty bread and a 
simple salad for a complete meal, or pair a smaller 
portion with a Mousetrap Grilled Cheese (page 38) 
or the Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese (page 50).
2 Tbsp olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, halved lengthwise through 
the stem end and cut crosswise into half-moon 
slices about ¼ in [6 mm] thick 
1 small leek, trimmed and tough green tops 
removed, halved lengthwise and carefully washed, 
cut crosswise into half-moon slices about ¼ in 
[6 mm] thick
2 medium Yukon gold potatoes, peeled and cut into 
½-in [12 -mm] cubes
4 oz [115 g] cremini mushrooms, brushed clean 
and quartered
2 medium carrots, peeled and cut into ½ -in [12 -mm] 
cubes2 celery stalks, cut into ½ -in [12 -mm] cubes
1 small fennel bulb, tops and tough core removed, 
cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice 
1 small ripe tomato, cut into ½ -in [12 -mm] cubes
1 small shallot, minced 
2 garlic cloves, minced 
4 cups [960 ml] chicken stock
2 cups [340 g] pulled pork (see page 72), 
 
plus ¼ cup [60 ml] reserved drippings 
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1) In a large soup pot over medium heat, warm the 
olive oil until hot but not smoking. Add the onion and 
leek and cook, stirring often, until the vegetables 
have softened and the onion is translucent, about 
8 minutes. 
2) Add the potatoes, mushrooms, carrots, celery, 
fennel, tomato, shallot, and garlic and stir to coat in 
the fat and juices, then add the chicken stock, pork, 
and pork drippings and stir gently to mix well. Bring 
to a low boil, then lower the heat to maintain a 
gentle simmer. Cover and cook, stirring occasion
-
ally, until the vegetables are very soft, about 1 hour. 
Remove from the heat. Season with salt and pepper. 
3) Ladle the stew into bowls and serve immediately. Pulle d P o r k
Stew
SePveB  4 P B P m Pin IiBh IP 8 P B P BiIe IiBh116GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENAmer i c a n 
Chili 
SePveB  8 P B P m Pin IiBh
Chili means a lot of different things in a lot of different 
places. In Texas, it’s all meat, no beans. In California, 
it’s several kinds of beans, meat optional. My chili is 
 
an adaptation of the California style, with ground beef, 
lots of sautéed vegetables, and rich gravy redolent 
of garlic and tomatoes. Traditionally, American chili is 
fairly spicy, while the cheese, minced onion, and sour 
cream garnishes help tame the heat. If you like your 
chili extra spicy, add some extra cayenne or half of a 
habanero, seeded and minced, with the veget  ables. 
If you prefer it mild, leave out the hot sauce and omit 
the fresh jalapeños. 
Serve this on its own, or try this decadent twist 
we love: a scoop of chili in a bowl with a scoop of 
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese (page 120) on top. Or bake the 
two together and use leftover chili to make Chili Mac 
(page 141). 
1 tsp olive oil, plus 1 Tbsp
1 lb [455 g] ground beef 
One 7-oz [199-g] can 
chipotles en adobo
 (smoked 
jalapeños canned with tomato sauce) 
2 garlic cloves, coarsely chopped
3 Tbsp chili powder
1 Tbsp ancho chile powder
1 Tbsp ground cumin
1 tsp 
pimentón
 (smoked paprika)2 fresh jalapeño chiles, seeded and coarsely 
chopped (see Note, page 150)
2 tsp hot sauce such as Tapatío 
2 cups [480 ml] vegetable stock
1 red bell pepper, seeded and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
1 green bell pepper, seeded and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
1 Anaheim chile, seeded and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 medium carrot, peeled and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
One 15-oz [425-g] can kidney beans, drained 
and rinsed 
One 15-oz [425-g] can black beans, drained 
and rinsed
One 15-oz [425-g] can pinto beans, drained 
and rinsed
One 14½-oz [411-g] can chopped fire-roasted 
tomatoes, with juice
One 15-oz [425-g] can tomato sauce
2 tsp kosher salt
1 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Shredded Cheddar cheese, minced red onion, 
and sour cream for garnish117
 SIIp1) In a skillet over medium heat, warm the 1 tsp 
olive oil. Add the ground beef and cook, stirring with 
a wooden spoon and breaking up any large chunks 
of beef, just until nicely browned and no pink spots 
remain, about 5 minutes. Drain, and discard the fat 
and pan juices. Set aside. 
2) While the beef is cooking, in a blender, combine 
the 
chipotles en adobo
, garlic, chili powder, ancho 
chile powder, cumin, 
pimentón
, jalapeños, hot sauce, 
and ½ cup [120 ml] of the vegetable stock. Blend on 
low speed until a smooth purée forms. Set aside. 
3) In a large saucepan, warm the 1 Tbsp olive oil 
over medium heat until hot but not smoking. Add 
both bell peppers, the Anaheim chile, onion, and 
carrot and cook, stirring often, until the vegetables 
have softened and the onion is translucent, about 
8 minutes. 4) Add the garlic-chile purée to the pan and stir to 
combine well. Add all of the beans, cooked ground 
beef, chopped tomatoes with their juices, tomato 
sauce, remaining 1½ cups [360 ml] vegetable stock, 
salt, and black pepper and stir well to combine. Raise 
the heat to medium-high and bring to a low boil, then 
turn the heat to medium-  low so that the sauce barely 
bubbles. Cover partially and simmer very gently, 
stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are very 
soft, about 30 minutes. 
5) Ladle the chili into bowls, garnish with a sprinkle 
of shredded cheese and red onions and a dollop of 
sour cream, and serve immediately. cheeseMAC ’n’We love all things involving bread and cheese.  
cheeseMAC ’n’To us mac ’n’ cheese is just a deconstructed grilled cheese 
sandwich. Gooey cheese sauce, chewy noodles, and crunchy bread 
crumb toppings are just the basics. From there we like to go a little 
crazy and add in crispy bacon, spicy jalapeños, fragrant herbs, 
a swirl of green pesto, or chunks of savory ham or chicken and 
elevate this homely dish from a side act to center stage.
Start with Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese (page 120) and then customize it to 
your own tastes. We heartily encourage you to experiment on your 
own. And remember to use what’s in your kitchen as a catalyst—we 
top ours using leftover biscuits when we have them, or extra bread 
if we don’t.
Mac ’n’ cheese can be assembled a day or two advance and baked 
before serving, so it’s a great option for parties or a fast and hot 
dinner on busy weeknights . 120GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBasic M a c  ’n’ C h e e s e
SePveB  6
We started making mac ’n’ cheese at the request of 
some of our regulars, who wanted a change to their 
warm ’n’ cheesy lunch options. Our mac quickly took 
on a life of its own as our staff and customers alike 
offered suggestions and ideas for variations in flavor 
and style, and we now sell tray after tray of our mac 
and make different kinds every day. Some customers 
go out of their way to visit us when we have their 
favorite on the specials board. 
This mac ’n’ cheese is creamy and crunchy, 
with a topping made from bread crumbs and 
melted cheese. Feel free to experiment with the 
types of cheese, shapes of pasta, and fillings that 
you stir into the mac before baking to make your
 
own signature mac. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note)
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature 
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note) 1 lb [455 g] cheese, shredded, plus 2 oz [55 g] 
(see Note)
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note)
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside. 
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, whisk  
together the flour, mustard powder, garlic  powder , 
black pepper, and cayenne pepper and set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 min
-
ute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 
4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the 
butter-  flour mixture , combining well. Cook, whisking 
constantly, until the sauce is heated through and 
just begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove 
from the heat. 
CONT’D122GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN5) Add the 1 lb [455 g] cheese to the sauce 
gradually, while stirring constantly in one direction 
with a wooden spoon or silicone spatula. Stir until 
the cheese is melted into the sauce, then stir in the 
cooked pasta. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining 2 oz [55 g] cheese. Set aside. 
7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the prepared  
dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb mix
-
ture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly with 
aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) Bake, 
uncovered, until the topping is toasted and crunchy 
and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, about 
20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes. 
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.Notes: You can substitute ½ tsp prepared 
mustard for the mustard powder (just whisk it in with 
the milk), and substitute 2½ cups [600 ml] half-and-
half for the milk and cream.
You can use many different cheeses and can 
combine as you like. We suggest Cheddar, plain 
Jack, garlic and/or herb Jack, fontina, mozzarella, 
Asiago, provolone, Gruyère, blue cheese, or Comté. 
 
If you use a strongly flavored cheese like blue or 
 
Gruyère, keep it to less than one-fourth of the 
total cheese.
For the bread slice, either fresh or stale is fine, 
and almost any kind is good—sourdough, sandwich 
loaf, or artisan.124GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENGruy è re, G a r li c ,   
: 
W
h
i
te 
W
i
ne 
M
ac
SePveB  6
This is a deceptively elegant mac ’n’ cheese. The 
garlic and white wine add bite and nuance, and 
 
make the dish smell like paradise in a pan. Serve 
 
with a simple salad made of butter lettuce and mâche 
(also known as lamb’s lettuce) sprinkled with a bit of 
vinaigrette, and a cold glass of California Chardonnay 
alongside. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
2 garlic cloves, minced
¼ cup [60 ml] dry white wine such as Chardonnay 
or Sauvignon Blanc
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122) 6 oz [170 g] Gruyère cheese, shredded 
8 oz [230 g] mild or medium Cheddar cheese, 
shredded
4 oz [115 g] fontina cheese, shredded
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122) 
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not mushy). 
Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 
powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and 
 
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When 
the butter is melted, whisk in the minced garlic and 
the flour mixture. Cook, whisking often, until the 
mixture is beginning to brown and has a pleasant, 
nutty aroma, about 1 minute. Watch carefully so it 
does not burn. 125MPc MnM CheeBe4) Slowly whisk the wine, milk, and cream into the 
butter-flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking 
constantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. 
5) Add 4 oz [115 g] of the Gruyère, the Cheddar, 
and the fontina to the sauce gradually, while stirring 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon or 
silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted into 
the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining Gruyère. Set aside.7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve. 126GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENFont i n a,  
M
ush
r
o
o
m, 
 
: 
Th
y
me M
a
c
SePveB  6
This mac, featuring meaty mushrooms, thyme, and 
creamy fontina sauce, was inspired by an amazing 
Neapolitan-style pizza served in a lovely neighbor
-
hood trattoria near where we live. Thyme and mush
-
rooms are natural friends, with the light citrus notes 
of the thyme complementing the earthiness of the 
mushrooms. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
2 tsp olive oil
4 oz [115 g] shiitake mushrooms, stemmed, brushed 
clean, and cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
8 oz [230 g] cremini mushrooms, brushed clean 
and cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
1 tsp minced fresh thyme 
8 oz [230 g] Monterey Jack cheese, shredded
8 oz [230 g] fontina cheese, shredded
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)
2 oz [55 g] Gruyère cheese, shredded 
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside. 127MPc MnM CheeBe3) In a small skillet over medium heat, warm the  
olive oil, swirling to coat the pan. Add all of the mush -
rooms and cook, stirring constantly, until the mush - 
rooms have softened, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat and set aside. 
4) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to brown 
and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 minute. Watch 
carefully so it does not burn. 
5) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the 
butter-flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking 
constantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
 
the heat and stir in the sautéed mushrooms and 
 
the thyme. 
6) Add the Monterey Jack and fontina to the 
sauce gradually, while stirring constantly in one 
direction with a wooden spoon or silicone spatula. 
Stir until the cheese is melted into the sauce, then stir 
in the cooked pasta. Set aside.7) Put the torn bread in a food processor and  
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the Gruyère. Set aside.
8) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
9) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
10) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.128GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENMozz a r el l a, P e st o ,   
: 
To
m
at
o
 
M
ac
SePveB  6
Mozzarella, basil, and tomatoes: these are the Three 
Musketeers of summer cooking. I combined them 
here into a gooey mac ’n’ cheese with a crunchy 
topping. Where we live, cherry tomatoes are summer 
flavor bombs, sweet and juicy, with that special 
fresh-tomato smell and growing in proliferation in 
backyards all over town. Use the sweetest, ripest 
tomatoes you can find for this dish. If you don’t have 
the ingredients or the time available to make our 
Basil-Lavender Pesto, just substitute store-bought 
basil pesto. We promise it will still be delicious. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122) 10 oz [280 g] fontina cheese, shredded 
8 oz [230 g] mozzarella cheese, preferably fresh, 
shredded
½ pt [170 g] cherry tomatoes, halved 
2 Tbsp Basil-Lavender Pesto (page 159)
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 
powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and 
 
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 
 
1 minute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 129MPc MnM CheeBe4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. 
5) Add 8 oz [230 g] of the fontina and the mozza - 
rella to the sauce gradually, while stirring constantly 
in one direction with a wooden spoon or silicone 
spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted into the sauce, 
then stir in the cooked pasta, tomatoes, and pesto. 
Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely by 
hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs with the 
remaining fontina. Set aside.7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.130GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENCrab M ac 
SePveB  6
A man in a business suit once threw a temper tantrum  
in the middle of our restaurant when the  customer  
in front of him got the last serving of our Crab Mac. 
The lemon zest, fresh garlic, and parsley add a bit of 
zing that brings out the sweetness of the briny crab 
meat—and the passion of our patrons. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
10 oz [280 g] fontina cheese 
4 oz [115 g] mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded
4 oz [115 g] Havarti cheese, shredded
1 lb [455 g] cooked lump crabmeat, fresh 
or canned, picked over for shell fragments 
and cartilage
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley1 garlic clove, minced 
1 tsp grated lemon zest 
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 
 
1 minute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 131MPc MnM CheeBe4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat.
5) Add 8 oz [230 g] of the fontina, the Cheddar, 
and Havarti to the sauce gradually, while stirring 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon or 
silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted into 
the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta, crabmeat, 
parsley, minced garlic, and lemon zest. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining fontina. Set aside.7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.132GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBBQ C h ic k en M ac
SePveB  6
This is a great way to use up leftover chicken (fried, 
roasted, or grilled—it doesn’t matter). If you love BBQ 
chicken pizza, you’ll love this mac, too. If you don’t 
have BBQ potato chips on hand, you can use the 
bread crumb topping we specify in the other mac ’n’ 
cheese recipes. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
10 oz [280 g] cooked chicken, hand-pulled or 
chopped into ½-in [12 -mm] pieces 
⅓ cup [80 ml] barbecue sauce (use your favorite)
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
10 oz [280 g] mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded
8 oz [230 g] Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 
1 cup [60 g] barbecue-flavor potato chips1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and set 
aside. In a medium bowl, toss the chicken with the 
barbecue sauce and set aside. 
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 
 
1 minute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 
4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat.133MPc MnM CheeBe5) Add 8 oz [230 g] of the Cheddar and the Mon -
terey Jack to the sauce gradually, while stirring 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon 
 
or silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted 
 
into the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta and 
chicken. Set aside.
6) Place the potato chips in a large zip-top bag. 
Push all of the air out of the bag and seal it. Slowly 
roll a rolling pin over the bag until all of the chips are 
crushed to about the size of coarse bread crumbs. 
Add the remaining Cheddar to the bag and shake to 
combine. Set aside.7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the prepared  
dish and sprinkle evenly with the potato chip mixture. 
(At this point, you can cover the dish tightly with 
aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) Bake, 
uncovered, until the topping is brown and crunchy 
and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, about 
20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.134GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENHam : He r b M a c
SePveB  6
Sweet and salty, everyday sandwich lunch meat and 
also a special holiday celebration feast—what is it 
about ham? Sure, it takes almost any dish from being 
a starter or side to a main course, but our macs with 
ham are always the fastest to sell out; the combo of 
ham and cheese 
and
 noodles seems to be a collec
-
tive dream, evoking childhood holiday fantasies. You 
can use any kind of ham here, but 
jambon de Paris
 
(cooked French-style ham), Black Forest ham, and 
honey-baked ham are our favorites for this dish. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
6 oz [170 g] Gruyère cheese, shredded
8 oz [230 g] mild, medium or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded
4 oz [115 g] fontina cheese, shredded 6 oz [170 g] ham, diced 
1 tsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
1 tsp minced fresh thyme
1 tsp minced fresh rosemary
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When 
the butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 min
-
ute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 135MPc MnM CheeBe4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. 
5) Add 4 oz [115 g] of the Gruyère, the Cheddar, 
and fontina to the sauce gradually, while stirring 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon or 
silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted into 
the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta, ham, parsley, 
thyme, and rosemary. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely by 
hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs with the 
remaining Gruyère. Set aside.
7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.136GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENAsiag o , P ro s c iut t o,  
: 
S
a
g
e
 M
a
c
SePveB  6
Choose a young Asiago (Asiago Pressato), which will 
bring a sweeter, nuttier flavor to this Italian-inflected 
dish than you will get with an aged Asiago. The salty 
prosciutto and earthy sage round out this delicious 
and sophisticated mac. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
10 oz [280 g] Asiago cheese, shredded
8 oz [230 g] fontina cheese, shredded
3 oz [85 g] thinly sliced prosciutto, chopped into 
¼-in [6 -mm] pieces
1 tsp minced fresh sage or ½ tsp dried rubbed sage 
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 min
-
ute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 
4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking 
 
constantly, until the sauce is heated through and 
just begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove 
from the heat. 137MPc MnM CheeBe5) Add 8 oz [230 g] of the Asiago and the fontina 
to the sauce gradually, while stirring constantly 
in one direction with a wooden spoon or silicone 
spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted into the sauce, 
then stir in the cooked pasta, prosciutto, and sage. 
Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining Asiago. Set aside.
7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.138GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBaco n : J a la p eñ o  M a c
SePveB  6
We added mac ’n’ cheese to the menu at the behest 
of our customers, but we started having fun with it 
right away, just like we did, and do, with our grilled 
cheese sandwiches. This was our first, and is still 
one of our best, variations. On a whim, I added a 
few handfuls of chopped cooked bacon and fresh 
diced jalapeños to this mix, and was entranced by 
the results. I think the staff ate the whole first tray; 
the customers had to wait until the next day, when 
we eagerly made this magnificent, fire-and-smoke 
mac again. 
8 oz [230 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
⅓ cup [40 g] all-purpose flour 
¾ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
½ tsp garlic powder
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
6 Tbsp [85 g] salted butter, at room temperature
1½ cups [360 ml] whole milk 
1 cup [240 ml] heavy cream (see Note, page 122)
10 oz [280 g] mild, medium or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded
4 oz [115 g] fontina cheese, shredded 4 oz [115 g] Monterey Jack cheese, shredded 
4 or 5 strips thick-sliced bacon, cooked until crisp, 
drained, and chopped 
1 jalapeño chile, seeds and ribs removed, cut into 
¼-in [6 -mm] dice (see Note, page 150)
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122)
1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash it) 
over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When the 
butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. Cook, 
whisking often, until the mixture is beginning to 
brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 1 min
-
ute. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 
CONT’D140GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. 
5) Add 8 oz [230 g] of the Cheddar, the fontina, 
and Jack to the sauce gradually, while stirring 
 
constantly in one direction with a wooden spoon 
 
or silicone spatula. Stir until the cheese is melted 
 
into the sauce, then stir in the cooked pasta, bacon, 
and jalapeño. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining Cheddar. Set aside.
7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 8) Pour the macaroni and cheese into the pre - 
pared dish and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb 
mixture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly 
with aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) 
Bake, uncovered, until the topping is toasted and 
crunchy and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, 
about 20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.141MPc MnM CheeBeChili on the bottom and mac ’n’ cheese on top—
what’s not to love? This is the perfect use for leftover 
American Chili, and a great dish to bring to a potluck; 
everyone loves the chili surprise on the bottom. If you 
 
want to make it extra spicy, stir a minced fresh jalapeño 
 
into the mac ’n’ cheese along with the pasta. 
4 oz [115 g] elbow, spiral, or other short pasta of 
your choice
2½ Tbsp all-purpose flour 
½ tsp dry mustard powder (see Note, page 122) 
¼ tsp garlic powder
¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
⅛ tsp cayenne pepper, or more if you like an 
extra kick
3 Tbsp salted butter, at room temperature
¾ cup [180 ml] whole milk 
½ cup [120 ml] heavy cream (see Note)
6 oz [170 g] mild, medium, or sharp Cheddar 
cheese, shredded
4 oz [115 g] Monterey Jack cheese, shredded
1 thick slice bread, torn into pieces (see Note, 
page 122) 
3 cups [855 g] American Chili (page 116), heated 
(see Note)1) Bring a medium saucepan of generously salted 
water (so it tastes like seawater) to a boil over high 
heat. Add the pasta and stir immediately. Boil the 
pasta, stirring occasionally, just until al dente, 8 to 
10 minutes or according to the package directions 
(the pasta should be tender but still chewy, not 
mushy). Drain the pasta in a colander and set aside.
2) While the pasta is cooking, in a small bowl, 
whisk together the flour, mustard powder, garlic 
 powder, black pepper, and cayenne pepper and  
set aside.
3) Put the empty pasta pan (no need to wash 
it) over medium-  low heat and add the butter . When 
the butter is melted, whisk in the flour mixture. 
Cook, whisking often, until the mixture is beginning 
to brown and has a pleasant, nutty aroma, about 
30 seconds. Watch carefully so it does not burn. 
4) Slowly whisk the milk and cream into the butter-  
flour mixture, combining well. Cook, whisking con
-
stantly, until the sauce is heated through and just 
begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat. Chili M a c
SePveB  6
CONT’D143MPc MnM CheeBe5) Add 4 oz [115 g] of the Cheddar and the Jack to 
the sauce gradually, while stirring constantly in one 
direction with a wooden spoon or silicone spatula. 
Stir until the cheese is melted into the sauce, then 
stir in the cooked pasta. Set aside.
6) Put the torn bread in a food processor and 
pulse until fine bread crumbs form, or chop finely 
 
by hand. In a small bowl, toss the bread crumbs 
 
with the remaining Cheddar. Set aside.
7) Preheat the oven to 400°F [200°C], with the 
convection option on, if you have it. Butter an 8-in 
[20-cm] glass or metal baking dish, or coat with 
nonstick cooking spray (it will make for much easier 
cleaning later!). 
8) Pour the chili into the prepared dish and spread 
evenly. Carefully spoon the mac ’n’ cheese over the 
chili and sprinkle evenly with the bread crumb mix
-
ture. (At this point, you can cover the dish tightly with 
aluminum foil and refrigerate for up to 2 days.) Bake, 
uncovered, until the topping is toasted and crunchy 
and the sauce is bubbling around the edges, about 
20 minutes. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
9) Ladle the mac into bowls and serve.Notes: You can substitute 1¼ cups [300 ml] 
half-and-half for the milk and cream.
If you are baking right away, gently rewarm the 
chili in a small saucepan over medium-  low heat until 
hot, or microwave it in a heatproof bowl for about 
2 minutes, or until warmed through, before topping 
with the mac ’n’ cheese. If you are making the mac 
ahead of time and will be refrigerating before cook
-
ing, then cold chili is preferable.SPREADS,PICKLES,
wSIDES
If the blank grilled cheese sandwic h is a canvas 
waiting to be painted and the primary colors are the bread and 
the cheese, then these pickles and spreads will give you a great 
set of bright accent colors to play with. Tart magenta Pickled Red 
Onions (page 151), sweet-hot deep orange Apricot-Jalapeño Relish 
(page 155), and bright green Basil-Lavender Pesto (page 159) 
add scintillating flashes of color—but, more important, they add 
a spectrum of flavors to balance out the rich, melted cheese. 
The assertive flavors in these toppings and spreads provide 
contrast and texture that can turn even an everyday grilled 
cheese into something truly special. 
I’ve included a couple of my favorite side dishes here: our Kale 
Slaw (page 163), a simple salad packed with fresh veggies 
and laced with Greek yogurt dressing; and the super-savory 
Muffaletta Olive Salad (page 157), which adds richness to any light 
bite. All the recipes in this chapter provide fun, light, and fresh 
complements to a toasty, hot, melty grilled cheese.147PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBBread ’ n ’ B u t te r  Pi c k l e s 
MPkeB  P bIIt 1 qt [455 g]
We go through about three hundred cucumbers 
a week to make these addictive Bread ’n’ Butter 
Pickles, putting them on a variety of sandwiches 
and selling them by the jar in our shops. Once you 
realize how easy it is to make your own pickles (not 
to mention how much tastier they are), you’ll never 
buy supermarket pickles again.
1 lb [455 g] pickling cucumbers, scrubbed and cut 
into ¼ -in- [6 -mm-] thick rounds
1 Tbsp prepared horseradish, not cream-style
1 Tbsp dried dill 
1 cup [240 ml] white vinegar
1 cup [200 g] sugar
4 garlic cloves, peeled
2 Tbsp pickling spice 
1 Tbsp ground turmeric
1 Tbsp kosher salt
1 tsp black peppercorns1) Pack the cucumber rounds into a 1-qt [960-ml] 
glass canning jar with a secure lid. Add the horse
-
radish and dill, screw on the lid, and shake gently 
to distribute.
2) In a small saucepan over high heat, combine the 
vinegar, sugar, garlic, pickling spice, turmeric, salt, 
and peppercorns and stir thoroughly. Bring to boil 
and immediately remove from the heat.
3) Open the jar and pour the hot brine over the 
cucumbers. Add cold water to fill the container, leav
-
ing ¼-in [6 -mm] headspace, and stir gently. Let cool 
at room temperature for 20 minutes, then replace 
the lid tightly and gently shake the jar to ensure the 
pickles are covered in the brine and the horseradish 
and dill are evenly dispersed. 
4) Refrigerate for 6 hours before serving. Consume 
within 4 weeks.149
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBGiardi n ie r a  
MPkeB  P bIIt 3 c IpB [675 g]
Giardiniera  (pronounced “jar-din-YARE-uh”) is an 
Italian American condiment made with a variety 
of different vegetables, a mixture of herbs, and 
sometimes vinegar. Rain Hayes, a good friend and 
multitalented cook extraordinaire, developed this 
recipe after traveling to Chicago and falling instantly 
in love with this very sexy condiment. She gave me 
the original recipe that inspired the Windy City Grilled 
Cheese (page 84), and now we use only this version 
in our sandwiches. 
When hot peppers are added to giardiniera, 
it’s sometimes called “hot mix.” We add hot jalapeño 
and habanero chiles to ours, so if you’re struggling to 
pronounce 
giardiniera
, you have an easy alternative. 
For our rendition, we dice the vegetables quite small, 
to make it easier to portion and spread in a grilled 
cheese. As with many of the recipes in this book, I 
encourage you to experiment—try zucchini, gherkins, 
or different kinds of olives. 
1 green bell pepper, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 red bell pepper, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 jalapeño chile, seeded and minced (see Note) 
1 habanero chile, seeded and minced (see Note; 
optional) 
1 medium carrot, peeled and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
1 celery stalk, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice½ cup [60 g] cauliflower florets, cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
½ medium white onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
Kosher salt
1 garlic clove, minced
1½ tsp dried oregano
½ tsp red pepper flakes
Freshly ground black pepper
½ cup [120 ml] white vinegar
¼ cup [60 ml] olive oil
¼ cup [60 ml] grapeseed or canola oil
2½ oz [70 g] pimiento-stuffed green olives, drained 
and finely chopped 
1) In a large glass or plastic bowl, combine both 
bell peppers, the jalapeño, habanero (if using), car
-
rot, celery, cauliflower, onion, and ¼ cup [75 g] salt 
and toss to mix. Add enough cold water just to cover 
the vegetables. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and 
refrigerate for 8 to 12 hours. 
2) Drain the vegetables in a colander set in the 
sink, reserving the bowl. Rinse the vegetables under 
cold running water and set aside. 
CONT’D150GRILLED CHEESE KITCHEN3) In a small bowl, whisk together the garlic, 
oregano, red pepper flakes, ¼ tsp black pepper, and 
the vinegar. Slowly but thoroughly whisk in the olive 
oil and grapeseed oil, forming an emulsion. Stir in the 
green olives. 
4) Put the drained vegetables back in the reserved 
bowl. Pour the oil-vinegar mixture over the vegeta
-
bles and toss together with a spoon to combine well 
and coat thoroughly. Season with salt and pepper if 
needed, and then pack into nonreactive glass jars or 
plastic storage containers and cover tightly. 
5) Refrigerate for 24 hours before  serving.   
Consume within 4 weeks.Note: To prepare hot chiles, wear gloves or use 
a fork and knife, or the chile seeds will burn your fin
-
gers—and any other part of your body you touch (like 
your eyes!)—after handling them. Cut the top off the 
chile and slice the body in half vertically. Then, using 
a gloved finger or a fork and knife, carefully scrape 
out the ribs and seeds and discard before slicing or 
chopping the chile as directed. Much of the fire is in 
those seeds, so add a few back in if you like it hot. 
And be aware that the heat of chiles can vary widely. 
I always eat a tiny piece of the chile in question 
before adding it to any dish so that I can adjust the 
amount I use to my own, or my diners’, taste. 151
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBPickl e d R e d O ni o n s 
MPkeB  P bIIt 2 c IpB [450 g]
A classic condiment in Mexican cuisine, these quick 
and easy—and pretty—pickled onions can be added 
to salads, roasted pork, or chicken dishes, or serve 
with a cheese board and crackers for a colorful 
flourish.
¾ cup [180 ml] white vinegar
1 Tbsp sugar
1 small cinnamon stick
3 whole cloves
1 bay leaf
1 whole star anise
¼ tsp red pepper flakes
1 medium red onion, thinly sliced 1) In a small saucepan over medium heat, stir 
together the vinegar, sugar, cinnamon stick, cloves, 
bay leaf, star anise, and red pepper flakes. Bring to a 
boil, then remove from the heat. Cover the pan and 
let the spices steep for 5 minutes.
2) Add the onion slices to the saucepan and stir 
well. Pour the mixture into a 1-qt [960-ml] glass jar 
 
or plastic  storage container and cover tightly . 
3) Refrigerate for 4 hours before serving. Consume 
within 4 weeks. 152
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENHot and sweet at the same time, these pickled jala - 
peño rings are a delicious addition to the Mousetrap 
Grilled Cheese (page 38) and Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled 
Cheese (page 42), are fantastic on burgers, and just 
bring general excitement to almost any appetizer, 
cheese board, or sandwich bar. 
½ cup [120 ml] hot water (the hottest water from 
your tap is fine)
2 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
⅓ cup [80 ml] white vinegar
1½ tsp honey
1 tsp black peppercorns
1 garlic clove, chopped
1 Tbsp kosher salt
1 bay leaf
4 oz [115 g] fresh jalapeño peppers, cut into rings 
about ¼ in [6 mm] thick (see Note, page 150)1) In a small saucepan over medium heat, stir 
together the hot water, cider vinegar, white vinegar, 
honey, peppercorns, garlic, salt, and bay leaf. Bring 
to a boil, then remove from the heat. Cover the pan 
and let the spices steep for 5 minutes. 
2) Add the jalapeños to the saucepan and stir  
well. Pour the mixture into a 1-pt [480-ml] glass jar 
 
or plastic storage container and cover tightly. 
3) Refrigerate for 1 day before serving. Consume 
within 4 weeks.Sweet Pi c kl e d  
Ja
l
a
p
eñ
o
s
MPkeB  P bIIt 1½ c IpB [340 g]153
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBPres e rv e d  
M
e
y
er 
L
e
m
ons
MPkeB  1 qt [740 g]
Originally from China and thought to be a cross 
between a “true” lemon and a Mandarin orange, 
Meyer lemons have a thin, sweet, and floral rind and 
pulp that is less acidic than regular lemons yet still 
intensely lemony. They make terrific cocktails and 
desserts, but preserving them in salt intensifies their 
flavors and softens the edible rinds. Preserved or 
pickled lemons are a traditional flavor in northern 
African and southern Asian cuisine. You can buy 
preserved Meyer lemons at specialty shops, but if 
you can find fresh Meyer lemons in season and are 
 willing to plan ahead, you can have a jar of this deli -
cious condiment in your refrigerator year-round. 
Preserved lemons and grilled cheese may 
seem like a strange combination, but we use these 
floral, salty-sweet flavor bombs in a variety of ways 
in our restaurant, adding them to sandwich spreads, 
fried chicken brine, even soup. 
8 Meyer lemons, thoroughly cleaned and 
patted dry, cut lengthwise into quarters
Kosher salt1) Pack a layer of lemon quarters in the bottom of 
a clean 1-qt [960-ml] glass canning jar with a secure 
lid. Sprinkle about 1 Tbsp kosher salt on top. Repeat, 
alternating layers of lemon and salt, until the jar is 
loosely full. Push the lemons down into the jar so 
their juice is released and cram as many more lemon 
quarters as you can into the jar—the goal is to get the 
air out and the lemons and salt in. 
2) When you’ve packed the jar as full as you can, 
sprinkle an extra layer of salt on top and seal the jar 
tightly with the lid. 
3) Refrigerate for 4 weeks before serving.  
Consume within 6 months.154
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENFresh cranberry sauce is so ridiculously fast and easy 
to make, there’s really no reason to buy it in cans. 
It’s also surprisingly adaptable; you can add warm 
spices, as we do, or stir in orange zest for a bright, 
tangy cranberry sauce. Homemade cranberry sauce 
is one of my favorite guilty pleasures; I’ll eat it with a 
spoon right out of the container. Its tangy sweetness 
is a great addition to any turkey or chicken sandwich, 
and I also love spooning it over vanilla ice cream 
for a quick dessert. 
3 cups [340 g] fresh or frozen whole cranberries
¾ cup [180 ml] cold water
1 cup [200 g] sugar
Pinch of ground cinnamon
Pinch of ground cloves1) In a medium saucepan, combine the cranberries, 
water, sugar, cinnamon, and cloves. Bring to a boil 
over medium heat, stirring to help dissolve the sugar. 
Turn the heat to medium-  low and simmer , stirring 
often, until most of the berries have popped and the 
sauce has thickened slightly, about 5 minutes. 
2) Remove from the heat and let cool to room tem -
perature before  serving. S tore in an airtight container 
in the refrigerator for up to 1 month.Cranb e rr y  S a u ce 
MPkeB  P bIIt 2¾ c IpB [620 g]155
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBApric o t-Jal a p eño  
Re
l
ish 
MPkeB  P bIIt 2½ c IpB [455 g]
Everyone loves this relish so much in our Jalapeño 
Popper Grilled Cheese (page 68) and Breakfast 
Popper Grilled Cheese (page 25), we started selling 
it by the jar in our shops. The chunky texture and 
sweet-hot flavor is just right for burgers, roast pork 
loin, or grilled chicken. Make an easy canapé by top
-
ping crackers with a dollop of chèvre and a spoonful 
of relish. To make it extra spicy, add a finely chopped 
habanero chile to the mix (see Note, page 150). 
4 medium jalapeño chiles, seeded and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
2 small serrano chiles, seeded and cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice 
½ small white onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
2 cups [240 g] dried apricots, cut into ¼ -in 
[6-mm] dice
1½ Tbsp apple cider vinegar
1 Tbsp fresh lime juice 
1 Tbsp peeled and grated fresh ginger, 
 
or 1 tsp ground ginger
2 tsp kosher salt
1½ tsp dry mustard powder 1) In a medium glass or plastic bowl, combine all 
the chiles, the onion, apricots, vinegar, lime juice, 
ginger, salt, and mustard powder and stir to mix 
thoroughly. Pack the relish into glass canning jars 
 
or plastic storage containers and cover tightly. 
2) Refrigerate overnight to allow the flavors to 
blend before serving. Consume within 3 weeks.156
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENIn addition to using this super-savory tapenade in 
grilled cheeses, it’s delicious spread on toasted 
 crostini, tossed into pasta dishes, or layered with 
greens, tomatoes, and feta for a quick, rich and tangy Mediterranean salad.
1 cup [140 g] pitted Kalamata olives, drained
1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar
3 garlic cloves
1½ tsp capers, drained
¾ cup [20 g] loosely packed fresh flat-leaf 
parsley leaves, minced 1) In a food processor, combine the olives, vinegar, 
garlic, and capers and pulse in 3-second increments 
until finely chopped, scraping down the sides of the 
bowl as needed. Scrape the mixture into a small bowl 
 
and fold in the parsley by hand. (If you don’t have a 
food processor, mince the olives, garlic, and capers 
by hand and toss them with the vinegar and parsley 
in a small bowl.) Pack the tapenade into glass canning 
jars or plastic containers and cover tightly. 
2) Store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks or 
in the freezer for up to 4 weeks (thaw gently in the 
refrigerator or at room temperature before using).Kalama t a Ta p en a de 
MPkeB  P bIIt 1 c Ip [170 g]157
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBMuff a l e tta O live S a l a d 
MPkeB  P bIIt 1 c Ip [230 g]
It’s called a “salad,” but this is really somewhere 
between a tapenade and sandwich spread—we have 
no idea why the gods of sandwiches past decided to 
call it Olive Salad. The primary use of olive salad is in 
muffaletta sandwiches, and you can enjoy this recipe 
in our Muffaletta Grilled Cheese (page 81). However, 
if you have some extra, you can also make an easy 
and tasty side salad by tossing a  spoonful of it with 
hand-torn butter lettuce and halved cherry tomatoes. 
½ cup [75 g] pimiento-stuffed green olives, drained 
and finely chopped 
½ cup [75 g] pitted Greek black olives, drained and 
finely chopped 
¼ cup [35 g] finely chopped roasted red peppers
2 canned roasted artichoke hearts, drained
½ shallot, minced 
2 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley 
1 Tbsp fresh lemon juice 
1 garlic clove, minced
½ tsp capers, drained and finely chopped
½ teaspoon dried oregano1) In a medium bowl, combine the green olives, 
black olives, red peppers, artichoke hearts, shallot, 
parsley, lemon juice, garlic, capers, and oregano. 
Toss to mix well and transfer to an airtight container. 
2) Refrigerate for 8 hours before serving. Consume 
within 4 weeks.158GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENSure, this salty-tangy-meaty spread is great on grilled 
cheese, but it is also excellent spooned onto toasted 
bruschetta or tossed with tuna, cucumbers, and 
tomatoes and served over mixed greens for a tasty 
salad. To enlist it for an easy main course, brush 
boneless, skinless chicken breasts with a bit of olive 
oil; sprinkle with salt and pepper; and coat thickly 
with the olive-artichoke spread. Bake in a 350°F 
[180°C] oven until cooked through and the juices 
 
run clear, about 20 minutes. 
We use bright-green Castelvetrano olives 
from southern Italy in our spread, both for the flavor 
and the color. These olives are processed in lye 
rather than being cured, and the flavor is sweeter 
and fruitier than black or cured olives. The bright 
green olives, yellow lemon, and fresh herbs make 
for an eye-catching spread. ½ cup [70 g] pitted green Castelvetrano olives 
½ cup [70 g] drained jarred artichoke hearts
2 garlic cloves, chopped
2 Tbsp Preserved Meyer Lemons (page 153), seeds 
removed and coarsely chopped 
1 Tbsp minced fresh cilantro 
1 Tbsp minced fresh flat-leaf parsley 
In a food processor or blender, combine the olives, 
artichoke hearts, garlic, and preserved lemon. Pulse 
until a uniformly textured, slightly chunky spread 
forms. Using a rubber spatula, scrape the spread 
into a small bowl and fold in the cilantro and parsley. 
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 
 
up to 1 month. Mor occ a n Gr e en O live, 
A
r
tic
h
o
ke, 
: 
P
r
e
s
er
v
ed 
Le
m
on S
p
re
a
d
MPkeB  P bIIt 1 c Ip [230 g]159PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBBasil-Lave n d e r P es t o 
MPkeB  PbIIt ¹ ⁄³ cIp [75 g]  
The cheese makes any grilled cheese sandwich rich 
enough, so I left out the traditional nuts and cheese 
in this dedicated pesto recipe. As a result, the con
-
centrated herbal flavor really stands out. Substitute a 
handful or so of arugula, spinach, or parsley for half 
of the basil to add a different herbal note, if you wish. 2 cups [60 g] packed fresh basil leaves,  
thick stems removed
1 tsp food-grade dried lavender buds
1½ Tbsp olive oil
1 tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
In a food processor or blender, combine the basil, 
lavender buds, olive oil, salt, and pepper. Process, 
stopping to scrape down the sides with a rubber 
spatula two or three times, until a uniformly textured, 
easily spreadable paste forms, about 2 minutes. Use 
immediately; or transfer to a small bowl, place plastic 
wrap directly on the pesto to prevent browning, 
and refrigerate for up to 5 days; or freeze in a small 
airtight container for up to 1 month. 160
GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENI came up with this recipe after pondering an import - 
ant question: What are our favorite things to combine 
with Cheddar cheese? Apples and mustard topped 
the list, so I started there. A delicious place to start—
but I found that adding sweet, rich caramelized 
onions really made this spread special. It’s sweet, 
salty, and savory all at the same time. If you have 
extra, serve it with roast pork loin or pork chops, 
 
or just spread it on toast and enjoy. 
1 Tbsp vegetable oil
1 medium yellow onion, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice 
½ tsp kosher salt
⅓ cup [80 g] stone-ground mustard 
⅓ cup [80 g] apple butter (see Sources, page 168)1) In a small skillet over medium heat, warm the 
vegetable oil. Add the onion and salt and stir to 
combine. Cover and cook, stirring every couple of 
minutes, until the onion is translucent and soft, about 
8 minutes. Uncover, raise the heat to medium-  high, 
and cook, stirring often to prevent scorching, until 
the onion is the color of light brown sugar, about 
8 minutes longer. Remove from the heat and let cool 
for about 10 minutes.
2) Combine the mustard, apple butter, and 
caramel  ized onion in a food processor or blender 
and process until smooth, stopping to scrape down 
the sides at least once. Use immediately, or store 
in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 
2 weeks. 
Note: If you have leftover caramelized onions, 
try spreading 1 Tbsp inside the bread of a Mousetrap 
Grilled Cheese (page 38) or a Mushroom-Gruyère 
Grilled Cheese (page 46) before cooking. Apple M us t a r d 
MPkeB  P bIIt 1 c Ip [240 g]161
PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBBals amic O ni o n 
M
a
r
m
a
la
d
e 
MPkeB  P bIIt 1½ c IpB [340 g]
If you haven’t had onion marmalade, you’re in for a 
treat. Sweet and piquant, it’s a perfect complement 
in our Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled Cheese 
(page 83), but it is equally delightful in a simple grilled 
cheese with mild Cheddar and a few crumbles of 
your favorite blue cheese, or just on a cracker with 
 
a sliver of good cheese. 
2 tsp vegetable oil
2 medium red onions, cut into ¼ -in [6 -mm] dice
1 tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup [50 g] sugar
¼ cup plus 2 Tbsp [85 ml] balsamic vinegar1) In a small saucepan over medium heat, warm the 
vegetable oil. Add the onions, salt, and pepper and 
stir to combine. Cook, stirring every couple of min
-
utes, until the onions are soft and translucent, about 
8 minutes. 
2) Stir in the sugar and continue to cook, stirring 
occasionally, until the liquid from the onions and 
melted sugar is reduced but the mixture is not yet 
sticking to the pot, about 8 minutes longer. Turn the 
heat to medium-  low , stir in the vinegar, and cook, 
stirring often to prevent scorching, until the liquid is 
reduced to a thick syrup and the mixture is starting to 
stick to the pan, about 30 minutes. 
3) Remove from the heat and let cool to room 
temperature. Store in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.163PickleBP SpPePIBP PnI SiIeBAfter joyously making thousands of grilled cheese 
sandwiches, even we have come to recognize an 
inalienable truth: Man cannot live on grilled cheese 
alone. It’s always great to add a refreshing crunchy 
salad packed with vegetables. This easy kale slaw 
can be as varied as what you find in your refrigera
-
tor—carrots, Brussels sprouts, broccoli stems (trim 
the toughest part, but the rest is delicious!), aspar
-
agus, apples, onions, radicchio, peas. Shred all the 
veggies you use thoroughly and more or less evenly 
for the most pleasing texture. 
DRESSING
½ cup [110 g] plain Greek yogurt (regular or low fat)
⅓ cup [85 g] mayonnaise
2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice 
2 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
1 Tbsp sugar 
1 Tbsp celery seeds
½ tsp kosher salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
SLAW
½ bunch dinosaur (Lacinato) kale, stems removed
¼ head green cabbage, tough core removed ½ red bell pepper, seeded
4 oz [115 g] jicama, peeled
¼ fennel bulb, fronds and tough dark green 
part removed
¼ cup [45 g] dried currants
1) To make the dressing: In a medium bowl, whisk 
together the yogurt, mayonnaise, lemon juice, 
vinegar, sugar, celery seeds. salt, and pepper until 
smooth. Set aside. 
2) To make the slaw: In a food processor fitted  
with the 2 -mm slicing blade (4 mm is also okay, but 
the 2 -mm is slightly better), slice the kale, cabbage, 
and bell pepper. Transfer the sliced vegetables to a 
large bowl. Replace the slicing blade with the shred
-
ding blade, shred the jicama and fennel and add 
them to the kale mix. (If your food processor is too 
small, work in batches, adding one or two vegetables 
at a time and transferring them to a large bowl as 
you finish.) Add the currants to the bowl and toss 
together to mix thoroughly. 
3) Drizzle the dressing over the slaw (you may 
not need all of it), toss to coat lightly, and serve 
immediately.Kale S l a w
SePveB  4164GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENBREADS
9-grain/multigrain:
 There is no set list of grains that go into 
multigrain bread, but some of the common ones include 
whole wheat, rye, triticale, barley, oats, buckwheat, spelt, 
emmer, millet, and flax. These are hearty breads with nutty 
flavors and rough textures from the grains.
Brioche:
 Soft, slightly sweet, and chewy white yeast bread 
enriched with eggs and butter; similar to challah, but 
sweeter.
Challah:
 Similar to brioche but usually less sweet; tradi
-
tionally formed into a braided loaf and eaten on Jewish 
holidays.
Ciabatta:
 The Italian name translates as “slipper,” and this 
bread is shaped as such—a long, fairly flat white yeasted 
loaf. Its characteristic large holes form during the rise and 
baking. The texture is very chewy and the flavor is mild, 
similar to Italian bread.
Focaccia:
 Light, flat, yeasted Italian bread, generally baked 
in a large sheet 1 to 2 in [2.5 to 5 cm] thick and often deeply 
dimpled on the surface with the fingertips of the baker 
before it goes into the oven to ensure an even rise. Focac
-
cia may be brushed with olive oil and rosemary or other 
herbs before baking. 
Italian loaf:
 A mild white bread with a soft interior and 
crunchy crust, formed into a large oblong loaf. 
Miche : A rustic French sourdough with a high percentage 
of whole-wheat flour, usually made with natural sourdough 
culture and shaped into a very large round loaf. 
Oat:
 Oat bread is made with a combination of oats and 
wheat flour, and has a dense, moist texture. It is usually 
baked as a sandwich loaf and sold sliced. It may be sweet
-
ened with honey.
Naan:
 A leavened white or whole-wheat flatbread baked at 
high temperatures. Popular in India and throughout South 
and Central Asia. Can be flavored with garlic or onions, 
or stuffed with potatoes or other fillings, but the flavor is 
usually somewhat plain and the texture fairly soft. 
Pain au levain:  Made from French-style wild-yeast sour - 
dough starter (the “levain”) and often some whole-wheat 
and some white flour; shaped as a 
batard
. Levain is chewy, 
with a well-developed structure, and the flavor is somewhat 
like a mild sourdough with some nuttiness from the whole 
wheat. Pain de campagne : French country-style loaf shaped in 
a large round. Usually made with some whole wheat, this 
bread is chewy and hearty. 
Pain de mie : Slightly sweet and dense white French sand - 
wich loaf. 
Pretzel rolls/pretzel bread:
 While pretzels are traditionally 
shaped into knots, pretzel dough, which is a mild, yeasted 
white bread treated with lye or soda to give it the charac
-
teristic pretzel flavor and dark brown glossy finish, may be 
baked into rolls or even a loaf. 
Pumpernickel:
 Heavy, dense, slightly sweet, dark pure 
rye often made with mixed flour, whole-grain berries, and 
molasses.
Rye:
 A dense and dark bread made since the middle ages 
with varying proportions of rye flour mixed with wheat flour. 
Rye has a somewhat stronger flavor than wheat bread. 
Semolina:
 Semolina is a finely ground high-gluten flour 
made from the hard, coarse endosperm of durum wheat. 
Bread made from semolina has a light golden color and 
fine moist texture. 
Sourdough:
 California sourdough is a white bread made 
with wild yeasts that result in a sour flavor. It may be 
shaped in a sandwich loaf, round, or 
batard.
Whole-wheat:
 Also called whole-grain or wholemeal bread, 
whole-wheat bread is made with some portion (up to 
100 percent) milled whole wheat. It is often formed into 
 
a sandwich loaf, but may be baked into other shapes, and 
may have honey added for sweetness. This bread has a 
moist, dense texture and a wheaty/nutty flavor. 
CHEESES
Asiago:
 An Italian cow’s-milk cheese from the Veneto 
region that can have a variety of textures depending on 
aging. Younger, softer Asiagos are best for grilled cheeses.
Barely Buzzed Cheddar:
 A cow’s-milk cheese produced by 
the Beehive Cheese Co. in Utah. This Cheddar is rubbed 
with lavender and coffee grounds. 
Bel Paese:
 Means “beautiful country” in Italian. A young 
Italian cow’s-milk cheese, pale and creamy with a light 
buttery flavor. 
Blue/bleu:
 Can be made from cow’s milk, sheep’s milk, or 
goat’s milk and is produced all over the world. Blue cheese 
has cultures of 
Penicillium
 mold added so that the resulting Glossary
165GlIBBPPycheese is spotted or veined with blue, blue-gray, or blue-
green mold. Blue cheese has a strong, distinctive smell and 
is often aged in temperature-controlled caves. 
Boschetto al Tartufo:
 A fresh, semisoft Italian cheese made 
from a combination of cow’s and sheep’s milk. It is infused 
with shavings of black truffles.
Brick:  A semisoft cow’s-milk cheese originating in Wiscon -
sin, brick cheese gets its name from the brick shapes the 
cheeses are formed in. Similar to Cheddar, but with a 
softer texture and sharper finish. 
Brie:
 A soft, mild, creamy cow’s-milk cheese with a pale 
color and a rind of white mold. The rind is typically eaten. 
Butterkäse:
 The name translates to “butter cheese” from 
German, and is a good description of this cheese. It is a 
very mild, buttery semisoft cow’s-milk cheese popular in 
Germany and commonly sold as a loaf for easy slicing. 
Cantal:
 One of the oldest cheeses made in France, this is 
a semihard to hard cow’s-milk cheese aged 1 to more than 
6 months. Flavors are similar to Cheddar, tangy and buttery.
Carmody:
 A semisoft cow’s-milk cheese made in California 
by Bellwether Farms. Young and buttery, with fresh milk 
flavors, this cheese was named after a road running along
-
side the dairy. 
Cheddar:
 Hard cow’s-milk cheese originating in the English 
village of Cheddar and made since at least the twelfth 
century, this cheese is now made into dozens of styles in 
regions all over the world. Color ranges from white to dark 
yellow and flavor is buttery and sharp. 
Cheshire:
 A dense semihard cow’s-milk cheese made in 
Cheshire county, England. Has a moist, crumbly texture 
 
and mild, salty taste. 
Chèvre:
 Fresh goat’s-milk cheese that can be crumbled or 
spread. This tangy and creamy cheese is made all over the 
world, but particularly in France and California. 
Colby:
 A semihard fresh cow’s-milk cheese named for the 
town of Colby, Wisconsin, where it originated, this mild 
cheese is similar to Cheddar but is softer in texture and has 
more moisture. Often combined with Jack cheese and sold 
as Colby Jack, which can be substituted.
Comté:
 Also called 
Gruyère de Comté,
 a semihard yellow 
unpasteurized French cow’s-milk cheese aged 8 to 
12 months. One of the most popular cheeses in France, 
 
it has a nutty, caramelized flavor.Crescenza:
 Also called 
Stracchino
, this soft, creamy Italian 
cow’s-milk cheese is usually formed into squares. It is 
eaten very young and has a mild and delicate flavor.
Double Gloucester:
 A semihard cow’s-milk cheese made 
in Gloucestershire, England, since the sixteenth century. 
Aged for 4 months. 
Edam:
 Also called 
Edammer,
 this semihard cheese made 
 from cow’s or goat’s milk originated in the Netherlands. It is 
usually formed into balls and covered in red wax, and has 
a mild, slightly salty and nutty flavor and a lower fat content 
than most cheeses. 
Emmenthaler:
 Also called 
Emmental
, a Swiss cow’s-milk 
cheese that is medium to hard in texture with large holes 
(called eyes). It has a flavor reminiscent of mass-market 
Swiss cheese but more complex and subtle, caused by 
bacteria introduced during the cheesemaking process. 
Fontina:
 A semisoft cow’s-milk cheese originating from 
Italy’s Aosta Valley and now also made in Denmark, France, 
Canada, and the United States. Traditional Italian Fontina 
Val d’Aosta is an unpasteurized pungent cheese with a 
natural rind, but most other versions are much milder, with 
a wax rind, and may be pasteurized. 
Gorgonzola:
 A soft, crumbly, veined Italian blue cheese 
made from unskimmed cow’s milk that can be somewhat 
salty. It was named after the town of Gorgonzola that it 
originates from, and has been made for centuries. 
Gouda:
 A semihard Dutch cow’s-milk cheese named after 
the town of origin, but now made in several countries 
around the world. This cheese can be young or aged 
and flavors and textures can vary widely. Young Gouda is 
typically very mild and creamy, but aged Gouda has nutty, 
butterscotch flavors with an almost sweet finish. This is one 
of the oldest recorded cheeses in the world, dating back 
to the twelfth century! Gouda may be smoked or flavored 
with the addition of fenugreek, cumin, or other herbs and 
spices. 
Gruyère:
 Named for the town of Gruyères in Switzerland 
where it originated, this yellow semihard or hard cow’s-milk 
cheese is aged for 5 to 12 months. It is now also made in 
the United States. The flavor varies depending on age, 
but is generally sweet and slightly salty, with a distinct 
earthy aroma. 166GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENHavarti:  Also called cream Havarti or creamy Havarti, this 
is a Danish semisoft cow’s-milk cheese. This is a simple, 
cream-colored and creamy table cheese, typically with 
sweet notes, and can be found with a variety of flavorings 
added, such as dill, cranberry, horseradish, garlic, caraway, 
and jalapeño. 
Ibérico:
 A hard Spanish cheese made from a mixture of 
cow’s, sheep’s, and goat’s milk. Flavors are buttery, nutty, 
and sharp, and the texture may be crumbly. 
Idiazábal:
 A semihard to hard cheese made from unpas
-
teurized sheep’s milk from Basque Country in Spain. This 
cheese is always aged, but the texture and flavor may vary 
depending on how long. Idiazábal can be smoked after 
aging, contributing a nutty, buttery, smoky flavor. 
Jack, Monterey or Sonoma Jack:
 An American semisoft 
cow's-milk cheese, aged 1 to 6 months, pale yellow to 
white in color and mild in flavor. Melts beautifully and is 
often flavored with ingredients ranging from garlic to herbs 
to chiles.
Jarlsberg:
 A yellow semisoft Norwegian cow’s-milk cheese 
aged for a minimum of 1 year, with a wax rind and large eyes. 
This is a mild, creamy, versatile cheese with flavors similar 
to mild Swiss cheese, caused by the addition of bacteria 
during the cheesemaking process.
Mahón:
 A creamy, buttery, semisoft Spanish cow’s-milk 
cheese. 
Manchego:
 A hard Spanish sheep’s-milk cheese, aged 
between 2 months and 2 years with a distinctive hard 
brown rind and somewhat crumbly texture. The flavor 
is distinctive as well, tasting of the sheep’s milk it was 
made from. 
Mimolette:
 A hard, French cow’s-milk cheese with a distinct 
bright orange interior caused by the addition of annatto 
coloring, aged two months to two years, and formed into 
round balls. The flavor when young is mild, and a distinct 
hazelnut taste emerges in the more aged versions. 
Mozzarella:
 Fresh cheese made from cow’s or water buffalo’s 
 
milk (
mozzarella di bufala
), originating in Italy but now made 
around the world. This versatile cheese can have varying 
textures, may be smoked (
scamorza
) or sold packed in oil 
and herbs, and has very mild flavors that taste of fresh milk. Muenster:  A semisoft cow’s-milk cheese. Versions from the 
United States have a characteristic orange rind and a soft, 
white, creamy interior. Muenster has a very mild flavor. 
Ossau-Iraty:
 A semihard sheep’s-milk cheese from the 
French Basque region. 
Parmesan:
 
see
 Parmigiano-Reggiano
Parmigiano-Reggiano:
 A hard, unpasteurized, brined and 
aged cow’s-milk cheese originating in Italy. Not a great 
melting cheese; usually grated to facilitate melting. Pale 
yellow in color, this cheese is salty with rich umami flavors. 
Pecorino:
 Semihard or hard sheep’s-milk cheese made 
in several regions of Italy; the flavor and texture vary 
depending on how long it is aged. When young, it is mild 
and easily sliced or shaved, with flavors of cream and milk, 
but when aged it is crumbly, nutty, and buttery. In southern 
Italy, peppercorns or red pepper flakes are added to make 
pecorino pepato.
 
Port Salut:
 A semisoft pasteurized cow’s-milk cheese from 
France with mild flavors but a fairly strong smell. 
Provolone:
 A semihard Italian cow’s-milk cheese now pro
-
duced around the world. Typically shaped into a cylinder, 
young provolone is very mild and slightly salty, while aged 
provolone may be sharp and pungent. 
P’tit Basque:
 A semihard sheep’s-milk cheese from the 
French Basque region. Pale yellow with a natural rind that 
looks like Manchego, this mild cheese has grassy and 
buttery flavors. 
Queso Oaxaca : White, semihard cow’s-milk cheese from 
Mexico with mild flavors like Monterey Jack but a stringy 
texture like mozzarella. 
Raclette:
 This semihard, fairly sharp-tasting French cow’s-
milk cheese is traditionally served melted in thin slices on 
top of potatoes, toast, and other ingredients using a special 
melting tool also called a 
raclette
. 
Roncal:
 A hard but creamy Basque sheep’s-milk cheese 
with a fresh herbaceous flavor from Spain’s Roncal Valley. 
Formed into a barrel shape, this cheese has a hard, natural 
moldy rind. 
Sage Derby:
 A semihard cow’s-milk cheese from England 
that is mottled green and has a subtle herbal flavor created 
by adding sage to the cheesemaking process. 167GlIBBPPySan Joaquin Gold:  A hard cow’s-milk cheese, similar to 
Cheddar, from a dairy in California’s San Joaquin Valley. It 
has a thin natural rind, a pale yellow color, and a mild flavor, 
with notes of nuts and butter.
Scamorza:  Often marketed as smoked mozzarella, Sca -
morza is a young Italian cow’s-milk cheese that is made in 
a manner similar to mozzarella, but then dried and smoked. 
It has a white, mild interior and a brown rind from the 
 smoking process. 
Swiss:  Another name for Emmenthaler; usually called 
“Swiss cheese” in the United States.
Teleme:
 An American semisoft cow’s-milk cheese originat
-
ing from the San Francisco Bay Area. 
Toma:
 A cow’s-milk cheese from the Point Reyes Farm
-
stead Cheese Company in Northern California. This 
semihard, mild white cheese is pasteurized and has a 
natural rind. Flavors are creamy and buttery with a grassy 
tang finish.
Triple crème:
 This cow’s-milk cheese has at least 75 per
-
cent butterfat content, with a texture and natural white 
moldy rind similar to Brie. Soft and easily spreadable, this 
cheese will melt quickly, so handle gently. 
Urgelia:
 Also called 
Queso de l’Alt Urgell y la Cerdanya
, 
this is a semisoft cow’s-milk cheese from the Catalonia 
region of northern Spain. This cheese is washed in brine 
and aged for only 45 days. It has an assertive buttery flavor 
and melts well.
OTHER
Capicola:
 Also called 
cappicola, capicolla, 
and 
coppa. 
An 
Italian dry-cured pork
 salume 
made from a muscle running 
from the head to the neck of a pig. Similar to prosciutto and 
often seasoned with white wine, garlic, and various herbs 
and spices before curing. 
Chipotle:
 A smoked jalapeño
. Chipotle en adobo
 is a 
smoked jalapeño that has been preserved, usually by 
 canning, in a spicy sauce.
Crème fraîche:  Cultured cream with a rich mouthfeel and 
very mild buttermilk flavor. Crème fraîche is similar to mild 
Greek yogurt or sour cream, and you can substitute those 
for any recipe calling for crème fraîche. Garam masala:
 Translates to “hot spice mix,” with “hot” 
referring to the intensity of the spices, not the capsicum 
content. This traditional blend from northern India varies 
regionally but typically includes turmeric, peppercorns, 
cloves, cinnamon, cumin, and cardamom. 
Hass avocado:
 Smaller, dark-green avocados with rough, 
pebbled skin. The flavor and texture of Hass avocados 
is superior to the larger smooth-skinned varieties. You’ll 
know these are ripe when the fruit gives slightly when 
squeezed gently. 
Jambon de Paris : A lean, whole-muscle ham that is 
delicately spiced and slowly cooked in its own juices. It is 
always boneless and usually served thinly sliced.
Jamón Serrano : Aged (6 to 18 months), dry-cured ham from 
the town of Serrano in Spain. Traditionally served sliced 
very thinly off the bone and served cold. You can also use 
the more expensive 
Jamón Ibérico
, a similar style of ham 
cured for 2 to 3 years. 
Mortadella:
 A large Italian ground pork sausage from 
 
Bologna flavored with spices and pistachios. 
Piment d’espelette : Espelette peppers are grown in the 
Basque region of France. Prized for their nuanced fruity fla
-
vors, these mildly hot peppers are usually sold powdered 
or in a paste. The flavor is unique, but hot paprika can be 
substituted, if needed. 
Pimentón : Smoked Spanish paprika, sold in mild ( dulce ), 
moderately hot (
agridulce
), or hot (
picante
) versions. 
Prosciutto:
 Italian dry-cured ham usually served thinly 
sliced, cold, and uncooked. Aged for about 18 months.
Ras el hanout : Translates to “top [or head] of the shop,” 
implying that this Moroccan spice mix is the best the 
merchant has to offer. The traditional recipe has varying 
ingredients depending on the source, but typically includes 
turmeric, peppers, saffron, mace, cinnamon, coriander, 
cloves, and cardamom. 
Speck:
 An Old English word meaning “fat” or “blubber,” 
also the name for several different pork products across 
Europe. In this book, “speck” refers to Italian speck, a dry-
cured ham similar to prosciutto. 168GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENAmazon:  Pomi Strained Tomatoes, King Island Dairy’s Roaring 
Forties Blue from Australia and New Zealand. www.amazon.com
B&R Farms:
 Dried California Blenheim apricots. 
 
www.brfarms.com
Beehive Cheese Co:
 Barely Buzzed Cheddar. 
 
www.beehivecheese.com
Bellwether Farms:
 Carmody cheese. www.bellwetherfarms.com
Blue Chair Fruit:
 Early Girl Tomato Jam. shop.bluechairfruit.com
Dean & Deluca:
 Pimentón
, mace, herbes de Provence
,
 
 
garam masala.
 www.deandeluca.com
Earth & Vine Provisions:
 Red Bell Pepper and Ancho Chili Jam, 
Pumpkin-Orange Marmalade. www.earthnvine.com
Fiscalini:
 San Joaquin Gold cheese. www.fiscalinicheese.com
Holland’s Family Cheese LLC:
 Marieke Gouda Foenegreek. 
 
www.hollandsfamilycheese.com
iGourmet:
 Wide variety of specialty cheeses. www.igourmet.com
Kozlowski Farms:
 Apple butter. www.kozlowskifarms.com
McQuade’s Celtic Chutneys:
 Fig ’n’ Ginger Chutney. 
 
www.mcquadechutneys.com
Point Reyes Farmstead Cheese Company:
 Toma, Point Reyes 
Original Blue. www.pointreyescheese.com
San Francisco Herb Co:
 Pickling spice, dried lavender buds, mace, 
herbes de Provence
,
 other spices and herbs. www.sfherb.com
Sierra Nevada:
 Sierra Nevada Stout & Stoneground Mustard. 
www.sierranevadagiftshop.com
The Spanish Table:
 
Ras el hanout,
 pimentón,
 preserved meyer 
lemons. www.spanishtable.com
Williams-Sonoma:
 
Ras el hanout,
 garam masala
,
 preserved 
lemons. www.williams-sonoma.comSources
169AcknIGleIgmentBIt takes a village to write a grilled cheese cookbook, 
and we could not have done this without the help 
of dozens of friends, family, and professionals—and 
many of the latter are now friends, too. We had a 
stroke of luck in opening our first American Grilled 
Cheese Kitchen less than a block from Chronicle 
Books, and the Chronicle staff promptly became 
some of our favorite regulars. They encouraged us 
 
to consider writing a cookbook and referred us to 
 
the resources we needed to pull it off.
Amanda Poulsen Dix saved our bacon more than 
once by keeping us organized and on schedule, and 
led us through the wilderness of writing recipes for 
public consumption. We could not have done this 
without you! 
Copious thanks to the kind, patient, and wise folks at 
Chronicle Books who showed us the ropes of cook
-
book writing. Special shout-out to our editor, Amy 
Treadwell, and to Peter Perez for his enthusiasm and 
encouragement over the last several years. Doug 
Ogan, Carrie Bradley Neves, Vanessa Dina, Tera 
Killip, Steve Kim . . . thank you all. 
We also want to thank the dedicated and talented 
staff at The American Grilled Cheese Kitchen, many 
of whom helped develop these recipes. In particular, 
Adam Maxwell, our kitchen manager, contributed 
recipes, techniques, and support of all kinds, and 
Joe Steinocher helped us make all the recipes for 
the photo shoot. Travis, Elvis, Nikki, Summer, Junior, 
Georgy, Victor, Melanie, Joey, Rachel, and Will all 
contributed recipes or ideas that landed in this 
book in one way or another. Ben Auerbach helped 
by chopping mounds of 
mirepoix
, washing piles of 
dishes, and gamely eating every sample put in front 
of him; thank you, David and Suzanne, for donating 
Ben, and Junior, to the cause!
And of course big thanks to our parents, who encour -
aged us to leave our office jobs and pursue this crazy 
dream of grilled cheese in the first place. Jeanne 
Ormsby, both CFO and CMO (Chief Mom Officer) 
of The Kitchen, we both owe you so much for your eternal support and guidance. Naomi and Ray Pollak, 
thank you for your unshakable confidence in and 
love of us; your perpetual encouragement to “keep 
on truckin’” motivates us daily. As emigrants from 
South Africa, you paved your unique way to “make it” 
in America, inspiring us to do it our way—with lots of 
grilled cheese. Ray, we doubt any other highly skilled 
transplant surgeon has cleaned and diced, by hand, 
more than five hundred pounds of Brussels sprouts. 
You should be proud. 
And thanks to Heidi’s late father, Larry Gibson, who 
never had the chance to visit The American Grilled 
Cheese Kitchen but who surely would have been its 
greatest fan and biggest cheerleader. Unbeknownst 
to him, Larry also gave us the awesome  American  
Chili recipe, one of his specialties from Heidi’s child -
hood. Hopefully his one-pan brownies, thin pancakes, 
and famous Catalina Eggs will make it into future 
publications; it would have amused the hell out of him 
to see his recipes in print. 
To those on the ground who have supported us 
and continue to support us in everything we do, we 
thank you for perpetually being there. You’ve made 
sandwiches, painted walls, fixed pipes, cleaned 
restaurants, “tweeted,” “liked,” listened, and loved. 
And for the purposes of this cookbook, we thank you 
again for patiently trying yet another grilled cheese 
or another bowl of soup: Scout Addis (our very first 
customer!), Terry Sandin, Tackett Austin, Rain Hayes, 
Marian Reynov, Philippa Manley, Sam Serpente, Ray 
Tang, Dan Perkel, Roxanne Miller, Ruth Grayson, David 
Cramer, Joel Pollak, Beth Pollak, Claire  Silverman,  
Mike Gubman, Emily Rolph, Andrew Headington, 
Laura Headington, Gabe Turow, Liz Seibert, and 
everyone else who found room for one more taste.
Lastly, props to our dedicated cleanup crew, Stella 
(we miss you so much!), Mickey, and Tilly, who kept 
the floors spotless while we cooked. Acknowledgments
170GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENA
American Chili, 116–17
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Apples
Apple Mustard, 160
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Apricot-Jalapeño Relish, 155
Artichokes
Moroccan Green Olive, Artichoke, 
and Preserved Lemon Spread, 158
Muffaletta Olive Salad, 157
Asiago cheese
Asiago, Prosciutto, and Sage Mac, 
136–37
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Avocados
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 
45
B
Bacon
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Grilled Cheese Birthday Cake, 90–92
Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese, 68
Smoky Lentil Soup, 113
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Truffled Grilled Cheese with Bacon 
and Chives, 75
Baked Potato Soup, 100–101Balsamic Onion Marmalade, 161
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Basil-Lavender Pesto, 159
Basque Sheep Grilled Cheese, 40
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Beans
American Chili, 116–17
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Kale and Potato Soup, 99
White Bean and Ham Soup, 114
Beef
American Chili, 116–17
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled 
Cheese, 83
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Windy City Grilled Cheese, 84
Bell peppers
American Chili, 116–17
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
 Giardiniera, 149–50 
Kale Slaw, 163
Bel Paese cheese
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
Birthday Cake, Grilled Cheese, 90–92
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Blue cheese
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese, 
56–57
Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled 
Cheese, 83
Bread
for grilled cheese, 13
Irish Soda Bread, 88
Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles, 147
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese, 28
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Brie cheese
Sunday Brunch Grilled Cheese, 
32–34
Broccoli-Cheddar Soup, 98
Brown Sugar–Bourbon Sauce, 35
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 61–63
Butter, 13–14
Butternut squash
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
Butternut Squash Soup, 108–9
C
Cabbage
Kale Slaw, 163
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Capicola
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Carmody cheese
Honey Pot Grilled Cheese, 34
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 
45
Carrots
Giardiniera, 149–50
Spiced Coconut-Carrot Soup, 110
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Cauliflower
Curry-Cauliflower Soup, 107
Giardiniera, 149–50
Celery Purée Soup, 102
Cheddar cheese
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24
Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese, 28
Broccoli-Cheddar Soup, 98Index
171InIeIBro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Chili Mac, 141–43
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Crab Mac, 130–31
Curry-Cauliflower Soup, 107
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Grilled Cheese Birthday Cake, 90–92
Gruyère, Garlic, and White Wine Mac, 
124–25
Ham and Herb Mac, 134–35
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Mousetrap Grilled Cheese, 38–39
Piglet Grilled Cheese, 69
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Cheese, 14–15. See also individual 
cheeses
Chèvre (goat cheese)
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Chèvre and Fig Chutney Grilled 
Cheese, 34
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Honey Pot Grilled Cheese, 34
Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese, 68
Chicken
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese, 
56–57
Indian Leftovers Grilled Cheese, 60
Moroccan Chicken Grilled Cheese, 
58–59
Chiles
adjusting heat of, 53
American Chili, 116–17
Apricot-Jalapeño Relish, 155
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Giardiniera, 149–50
Grilled Cheese Birthday Cake, 90–92
handling, 150
Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese, 68
Sweet Pickled Jalapeños, 152
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Chili
American Chili, 116–17
Chili Mac, 141–43
Chili Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Chowder, Fresh Corn, 105
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Clothes irons, 19
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Coconut milk
Butternut Squash Soup, 108–9
Spiced Coconut-Carrot Soup, 110
Colby cheese
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled 
Cheese, 66
Comté cheese
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Cooking techniques, 16–19
Corn
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Fresh Corn Chowder, 105Corned beef
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Crab
Crab Mac, 130–31
Crab Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Cranberry Sauce, 154
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Cucumbers
Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles, 147
Curry-Cauliflower Soup, 107
D
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
E
Eggplant
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
roasting or grilling, 51
Eggs
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24
Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese, 28
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Green Eggs and Ham Grilled Cheese, 
29
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Emmenthaler cheese
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
F
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
Fig Chutney Grilled Cheese, Chèvre 
and, 34172GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENFish
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese, 
56–57
Fontina cheese
Asiago, Prosciutto, and Sage Mac, 
136–37
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
Crab Mac, 130–31
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
Fontina, Mushroom, and Thyme Mac, 
126–27
Gruyère, Garlic, and White Wine Mac, 
124–25
Ham and Herb Mac, 134–35
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Moscone Grilled Cheese, 48–49
Mozzarella, Pesto, and Tomato Mac, 
128–29
Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese, 
46–47
Fresh Corn Chowder, 105
G
Garlic Jack cheese
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Giardiniera, 149–50
Goat cheese. See Chèvre
Gouda cheese
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Green Eggs and Ham Grilled Cheese, 
29
Griddles, electric or gas, 17
Grilled cheese (general)
cooking techniques for, 16–19
creating new, 15–16
ingredients for, 12–15Grilled cheese (recipes)
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Basque Sheep Grilled Cheese, 40
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Breakfast-in-Bed Grilled Cheese, 24
Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese, 28
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Chèvre and Fig Chutney Grilled 
Cheese, 34
Chili Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Crab Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese, 
56–57
Green Eggs and Ham Grilled Cheese, 
29
Grilled Cheese Birthday Cake, 90–92
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Honey Pot Grilled Cheese, 34
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Indian Leftovers Grilled Cheese, 60
Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese, 68
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Moroccan Chicken Grilled Cheese, 
58–59
Moscone Grilled Cheese, 48–49
Mousetrap Grilled Cheese, 38–39
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese, 
46–47Piglet Grilled Cheese, 69
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled 
Cheese, 83
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Sunday Brunch Grilled Cheese, 
32–34
Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled 
Cheese, 66
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Truffled Grilled Cheese with Bacon 
and Chives, 75
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 
45
Wild Turkey Grilled Cheese, 65
Windy City Grilled Cheese, 84
Gravy, Quick Cream, 67
Gruyère cheese
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Fontina, Mushroom, and Thyme Mac, 
126–27
Gruyère, Garlic, and White Wine Mac, 
124–25
Ham and Herb Mac, 134–35
Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese, 
46–47
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
H
Habanero Jack cheese
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Ham. 
See also
 Prosciutto; Speck
Breakfast Piglet Grilled Cheese, 28
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Green Eggs and Ham Grilled Cheese, 
29
Ham and Herb Mac, 134–35
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Honey Pot Grilled Cheese, 34
Piglet Grilled Cheese, 69173InIeIWhite Bean and Ham Soup, 114
Havarti cheese
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Crab Mac, 130–31
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Foghorn Leghorn Grilled Cheese, 
56–57
Mousetrap Grilled Cheese, 38–39
Wild Turkey Grilled Cheese, 65
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Herbes de Provence, 41
Herb Jack cheese
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Honey Pot Grilled Cheese, 34
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 30–31
I
Idiazábal cheese
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
Indian Leftovers Grilled Cheese, 60
Irish Soda Bread, 88
J
Jalapeños. See Chiles
Jarlsberg cheese
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
K
Kalamata Tapenade, 156
Kale
Kale and Potato Soup, 99
Kale Slaw, 163
L
Lemons, Preserved Meyer, 153Lentil Soup, Smoky, 113
Luscious Mushroom Soup, 103M
Mac ’n’ cheese
Asiago, Prosciutto, and Sage Mac, 
136–37
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Chili Mac, 141–43
Chili Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Crab Mac, 130–31
Crab Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Fontina, Mushroom, and Thyme Mac, 
126–27
Gruyère, Garlic, and White Wine Mac, 
124–25
Ham and Herb Mac, 134–35
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
42–44
Mozzarella, Pesto, and Tomato Mac, 
128–29
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Mahon cheese
Moroccan Chicken Grilled Cheese, 
58–59
Manchego cheese
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Marmalade, Balsamic Onion, 161
Meyer Lemons, Preserved, 153
Monterey Jack cheese
Bacon and Jalapeño Mac, 138–40
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Chili Mac, 141–43
Chili Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Club Cluck Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Oink Grilled Cheese, 64
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Crab Mac Grilled Cheese, 44
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64
Fontina, Mushroom, and Thyme Mac, 
126–27
Grilled Cheese Birthday Cake, 90–92Jalapeño Popper Grilled Cheese, 68
Mac ’n’ Cheese Grilled Cheese, 
 42–44 
Mousetrap Grilled Cheese, 38–39
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Moroccan Chicken Grilled Cheese, 
58–59
Moroccan Green Olive, Artichoke, and 
Preserved Lemon Spread, 158
Mortadella
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Moscone Grilled Cheese, 48–49
Mousetrap Grilled Cheese, 38–39
Mozzarella cheese
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Moscone Grilled Cheese, 48–49
Mozzarella, Pesto, and Tomato Mac, 
128–29
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Muenster cheese
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled 
Cheese, 83
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Muffaletta Olive Salad, 157
Mushrooms
Fontina, Mushroom, and Thyme Mac, 
126–27
Luscious Mushroom Soup, 103
Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese, 
46–47
Pulled Pork Stew, 115
Mustard, Apple, 160
O
Oaxaca cheese
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Olives
Giardiniera, 149–50
Kalamata Tapenade, 156
Moroccan Green Olive, Artichoke, 
and Preserved Lemon Spread, 158
Muffaletta Olive Salad, 157174GRILLED CHEESE KITCHENOnions
Balsamic Onion Marmalade, 161
Pickled Red Onions, 151
Ossau-Iraty cheese
Basque Sheep Grilled Cheese, 40
Oven combo method, 18–19
P
Panini presses, 17–18
Pasta. See Mac ’n’ cheese
Pastrami
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
Pea Soup, Split, 111
Pepper Jack cheese
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Indian Leftovers Grilled Cheese, 60
Pepperoni
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Pesto, Basil-Lavender, 159
Pickles
Bread ’n’ Butter Pickles, 147
Giardiniera, 149–50
Pickled Red Onions, 151
Sweet Pickled Jalapeños, 152
Piglet Grilled Cheese, 69
Pineapple
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Pork. See also  Bacon; Ham; Sausage
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
Pulled Pork Stew, 115
Potato chips
BBQ Chicken Mac, 132–33
Potatoes
American Dip Grilled Cheese, 85
Baked Potato Soup, 100–101
Celery Purée Soup, 102
Farmer’s Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 
26–27
Fresh Corn Chowder, 105
Kale and Potato Soup, 99
Mushroom-Gruyère Grilled Cheese, 
46–47
Pulled Pork Stew, 115St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 
86–87
Split Pea Soup, 111
Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled 
Cheese, 67
Preserved Meyer Lemons, 153
Prosciutto
Asiago, Prosciutto, and Sage Mac, 
136–37
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Provolone cheese
Basic Mac ’n’ Cheese, 120–22
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Windy City Grilled Cheese, 84
P’tit Basque cheese
Basque Sheep Grilled Cheese, 40
Pulled Pork Stew, 115
Q
Quick Cream Gravy, 67
R
Ras El Hanout, 59Relish, Apricot-Jalapeño, 155
Reubenesque Grilled Cheese, 89
Roast Beef and Blue Cheese Grilled 
Cheese, 83
S
Sage Derby cheese
Green Eggs and Ham Grilled Cheese, 
29
St. Patrick’s Day Grilled Cheese, 86–87
Salami
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Sandwich irons, 19
Sandwich presses, 17–18
San Joaquin Gold cheese
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 
45Sauces
Basil-Lavender Pesto, 159
Brown Sugar–Bourbon Sauce, 35
Cranberry Sauce, 154
Quick Cream Gravy, 67
Sausage
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Slaw, Kale, 163
Smoky Lentil Soup, 113
Sonoma Jack cheese
Breakfast Popper Grilled Cheese, 25
Classic Breakfast Grilled Cheese, 23
Soups
Baked Potato Soup, 100–101
Broccoli-Cheddar Soup, 98
Butternut Squash Soup, 108–9
Celery Purée Soup, 102
Curry-Cauliflower Soup, 107
Fresh Corn Chowder, 105
Kale and Potato Soup, 99
Luscious Mushroom Soup, 103
Smoky Lentil Soup, 113
Spiced Coconut-Carrot Soup, 110
Split Pea Soup, 111
Ten-Minute Tomato Soup, 97
White Bean and Ham Soup, 114
Speck
Butternut Buster Grilled Cheese, 
76–77
Cristo Hispanico Grilled Cheese, 34
Spiced Coconut-Carrot Soup, 110
Split Pea Soup, 111
Spreads
Balsamic Onion Marmalade, 161
Kalamata Tapenade, 156
Moroccan Green Olive, Artichoke, 
and Preserved Lemon Spread, 158
Muffaletta Olive Salad, 157
Squash. See Butternut squash; Zucchini
Stew, Pulled Pork, 115
Stove-top skillet method, 16–17
Strawberries
Sunday Brunch Grilled Cheese, 
32–34175InIeISweet Pickled Jalapeños, 152
Swiss cheese
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Cubano Grilled Cheese, 72–73
T
Tapenade, Kalamata, 156Ten-Minute Tomato Soup, 97
Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled Cheese, 
67
Toma cheese
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 
45
Tomatoes
American Chili, 116–17
Black Bean and Fresh Corn Grilled 
Cheese, 52–53
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Don Gondola Grilled Cheese, 78
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
Hawaiian Grilled Cheese, 71
Huevos Rollando Grilled Cheese, 
30–31
Moscone Grilled Cheese, 48–49
Mozzarella, Pesto, and Tomato Mac, 
128–29
Muffaletta Grilled Cheese, 81
Pizza-wich Grilled Cheese, 79
Smoky Lentil Soup, 113
Ten-Minute Tomato Soup, 97
Tomato-Bacon-Jalapeño Mac Grilled 
Cheese, 44
Triple crème cheese
Sunday Brunch Grilled Cheese, 
32–34
Tuna
The Catch Grilled Cheese, 55
Turkey
Bro ’Wich Project Grilled Cheese, 
61–63
Club Turkey Grilled Cheese, 64
Farmyard Club Grilled Cheese, 64Thanksgiving Leftovers Grilled 
Cheese, 66
Wild Turkey Grilled Cheese, 65
U
Ultimate California Grilled Cheese, 45
W
Waffle irons, 19
White Bean and Ham Soup, 114
Wild Turkey Grilled Cheese, 66
Windy City Grilled Cheese, 84
Z
Zucchini
Feta Fetish Grilled Cheese, 50–51
roasting, 51Wife-and-husband team Heidi Gibson  and  
Nate Pollak  own the hugely popular American 
Grilled Cheese Kitchen restaurants in San Francisco. 
 
Heidi’s obsession with grilled cheese is reflected in her 
 
seven wins at the Grilled Cheese Invitational—more wins 
than any other competitor. When they aren’t selling grilled 
cheese sandwiches, they can be found developing recipes 
for muffins, biscuits, soups, salads, endless varieties of 
 
mac ’n’ cheese, pickles, and more for their restaurant. 
Antonis Achilleos  is a New York–based 
photographer specializing in food and lifestyle photog
-
raphy. His work has appeared in 
Ciao Biscotti 
among 
many other cookbooks, and in numerous publications, 
including 
Food Network Magazine, Food & Wine, 
and 
Bon Appétit.
Get 
freebies,  
discounts,  
and more!Want More  
Chronicle Ebooks?
CliCk Here!