CHAPTER 1
Your Complete Prep Guide 
to Wicked Good Meals
We know it’s important to plan things, and plan them well in order to be as efﬁ  cient as possible 
come dinnertime, especially when you have one hungry mob waiting for you to bring a steaming hot plate of deliciousness to the table. 
This chapter is meant to help you accomplish the task of preparing a meal without tearing your hair 
out, or waving the proverbial white ﬂ  ag by picking up the phone to order some greasy food from the 
joint down the street. Show that kitchen who’s boss! And while you’re at it, hire any willing partici-pant to come give you a hand in whipping up something tasty: The food will not only get to the table much faster, but you’ll also get to spend quality time with family members or friends you barely get to enjoy hanging out with and talking to during the busy day. Bonus!HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 12Things We Simply Can’t Live without in Our Kitchens
Following is a list of items we use the most, and that we acquired without breaking the bank. If you are serious 
about cooking, or just want to be someday, having at least a few of these items on hand is sure to make your 
life easier. 
Baked goods pans:  We use standard aluminized 
steel pans, but never glass pans, for baking, because 
results aren’t always satisfying with the latter.
Cast-iron skillet:  A good-quality cast-iron skillet just 
may replace half of your other pots and pans. Oven 
safe, naturally nonstick, long lasting, and usually 
inexpensive (some of the best come from garage 
sales and thrift stores), these pans have become indispensable in our kitchens. Try to ﬁ  nd one with 
a tight-ﬁ  tting lid.
Deep fryer:  While we do not advocate eating 
deep-fried foods every single day of the week, it’s 
still fun to enjoy the occasional golden brown and 
crunchy treat. A Fry Daddy Jr. only costs about $25 
and makes frying an easy task. It heats the oil to temperature within minutes and has a handy storage 
lid so that you can reuse the oil several times before 
having to throw it out.
Food processor:  We’ve owned processors that cost 
us next to nothing, as well as others that almost re-
quired us parting with a limb. Truth is, we don’t see a 
big difference between the two. The main thing you want to keep in mind when choosing a processor is 
size. Consider how many people live in your house-
hold and how big your batches of food will be before 
you buy. As an example, we both use a 10-cup (2.4-l) food processor for a household of two.Immersion blender:  This magical tool makes for 
speedy blending right in the bowl, no transfer of 
food required. We really like our Cuisinart model. 
It costs under $30 and is going on its sixth year of 
intensive use.
Food scale:   Because we use both weights and mea-
sures in our cookbooks, we’ve grown very fond of 
weighing our ingredients. It makes for easier cleanup 
(since you can weigh everything right into the mix-
ing bowl, rather than dealing with measuring cups), 
and is often far more accurate than measuring. It’s 
possible to ﬁ  nd scales for as low as $25 that offer 
excellent results. We use the Escali brand.
Good-quality chef’s knife:  You don’t have to spend 
hundreds of dollars, but a good chef’s knife with a 
heavy handle and a blade that can be sharpened 
at home will save you hours of aggravation, not to 
mention the cost of bandages from cutting yourself 
with a frustratingly dull, supercheap version.
Jumbo mufﬁ  n tins:  If you’re hungry and you know 
it, whip out your jumbo mufﬁ  n tin. Each tin yields six 
bakery-style mufﬁ  ns made of up to 1 cup (235 ml) of 
batter. Impressive and quite useful when appetites 
are extreme (or you’re considering baking for proﬁ  t). 
As a comparison, standard mufﬁ  n tins use up to 
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) of batter, so your baking time will 
likely need to increase by a bit if you’re converting 
a standard mufﬁ  n or cupcake recipe. YOUR COMPLETE PREP GUIDE TO WICKED GOOD MEALS 13General Baking and Cooking Tips
Here are a few basic tips we ﬁ  nd essential in making our cooking and baking experiences all 
the more seamless and enjoyable.
Be mindful of ingredient temperature.   
It’s best to use ingredients that are at room tem-
perature when baking, but even more so when deal-
ing with yeast bread. The main exception, however, is when making pie crusts and biscuits, where the ingredients should all be very cold. Follow the rec-ommended ingredient temperatures in each recipe—rebelling will only cause regret! 
Measure ﬂ  our correctly.  We use a scoop to transfer 
ﬂ ours into the measuring cup, so as not to overpack. 
It makes a difference in how recipes turn out, so it’s 
a good thing to keep in mind.
Sift whenever possible.  Sifting after measuring 
(or before, if the recipe calls for it) helps create light and airy baked goods with an even crumb. Simply use a ﬁ  ne mesh sieve to make sure ﬂ  our, cocoa 
powder, baking soda, and other such dry ingredients don’t get over-clumped on you.Practice mise en place . This is French for “Don’t 
be messy, fool!” (Okay, really it means “every-thing in place,” but same idea.) To follow this rule, 
simply gather your ingredients on the counter (and 
measure out if you’re really feeling organized) in advance, so you won’t have to go looking for the cinnamon when your wet and dry ingredients are already mixed and need to get into the oven pronto. This way, you’ll also allow for things to come to room temperature. (Just don’t do that with things that actually need to be super cold, like nondairy butter for biscuits, or frozen blueberries for mufﬁ  ns!)
Read through recipes.  It’s always wise to make sure 
you’ve got all the ingredients you need and know what you’re in for. Microplane grater:  Use it for citrus z est, whole 
nutmeg, garlic, and anything that requires a close shave. 
Silicone baking mats, such as Silpat:  We both 
swear by them, for one main reason: less waste. Unlike parchment paper, baking mats can be used repeatedly and usually perform for at least 2,000 uses.Thermometers:  Oven thermometers and instant-
read thermometers are an affordable and great way to make sure your oven is well calibrated and that the liquid for your yeast bread is at the adequate temperature.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 14Beans:  We usually go for canned beans, rinsing 
and draining them thoroughly to get rid of as much 
sodium as possible. If you happen to cook your own, we tip our hats to you. You probably already know 
that one 15-ounce (425 g) can of beans equals approximately 1
2⁄3 cups (294 g) cooked beans, 
or 2⁄3 cup (120 g) dry beans.
Edible seaweed:  Hijiki, dulse, and nori are three 
edible seaweeds that add a ﬁ  shy ﬂ  avor to foods 
without using ﬁ  sh.
Egg replacer:  Although very rarely called for in our 
recipes, this powder is a handy ingredient to have 
around the kitchen. Ener-G and Bob’s Red Mill brand 
egg replacers both make an easy task of replacing 
eggs in recipes.
Flours:   If you want to get the most nutrition out 
of your baked goods, consider using whole wheat 
pastry ﬂ  our instead of all-purpose ﬂ  our. Whole 
wheat pastry ﬂ  our is ground from soft wheat and 
is lighter than regular whole wheat ﬂ  our, so it works 
particularly well in pastries, cookies, cakes, and 
the like. (It does not, however, work quite as well 
in yeast breads due to its low gluten content.)If you can’t ﬁ  nd or don’t have whole wheat pastry 
ﬂ our, you can combine equal amounts of unbleached 
all-purpose and whole wheat ﬂ  ours to get the same 
results (or just use all all-purpose). Most supermar-
kets have also started to carry white  whole wheat 
ﬂ our, which we ﬁ  nd makes for lighter and ﬂ  ufﬁ er 
breads while still retaining all the nutrition regular 
whole wheat ﬂ  our does. We’re big fans of it and 
recommend using it in yeast breads for less dense 
results or in combination with all-purpose ﬂ  our in 
baked goods, if available.
Liquid smoke:  A condiment that’s stocked near the 
marinades in most markets, this is made by con-
densing smoke into liquid form. A little goes a long 
way in giving a smoky ﬂ  avor to many foods.
Maca powder:  This dried root is somewhat of a 
superfood, because it is packed with vitamins (B), 
minerals (including calcium), and amino acids, and 
is said to increase stamina, reduce fatigue, and even 
enhance libido. It is rather expensive, but a little 
goes a long way. It has a nutty, almost buttery ﬂ  avor. 
It can be sprinkled on oatmeal or other hot cere-
als for an added nutritional boost. We sneak it into 
some of our recipes to add richness and depth.Getting to Know Your Ingredients
If you ﬁ  nd yourself scratching the top of your head wondering what on earth maca powder and nutritional 
yeast are, the following list of ingredients should help you become better acquainted with items that will 
soon turn out to be indispensable to your vegan pantry. 
A lot of the ingredients you will come across in this book can be found in any well-stocked supermarket, 
while less common ingredients may require a trip to your local health food store or a quick visit to the good 
ole Internet. YOUR COMPLETE PREP GUIDE TO WICKED GOOD MEALS 15Nondairy milks:  We favor unsweetened milk so that 
it lends itself to pretty much any use, but we aren’t too picky on which kind: soy, almond, rice, whatever we have. Consider trying several to discover what 
your palate enjoys best. 
Nut butters:  Peanuts, almonds, cashews, creamy or 
crunchy: They’re all fantastic, especially when made of nothing but nuts and a little salt. Most all-natural peanut butters have a tendency to separate in the jar, requiring a good stir; sometimes this can cause a problem in our recipes. Luckily, there are several all-natural creamy peanut butters (including Earth Balance and MaraNatha) that are clearly labeled as 
no-stir, and believe it or not, they really are! When 
necessary, we specify when no-stir peanut butter is needed in our recipes.
Nutritional yeast:  This is a nonactive kind of yeast 
you’ll either love, hate, or learn to appreciate. Its nutty and cheesy ﬂ  avor is a bit of an acquired taste, 
so give yourself time to get used to it. Look for the vegetarian-support formula (this will be noted on the label), which is enriched in vitamin B12.
Oils:  Use neutral-ﬂ  avored vegetable oils (such as 
canola, vegetable, peanut, etc.) in baking, unless 
otherwise mentioned. When it comes to cooking, we favor peanut oil for dishes that involve a long frying time because it has a high smoke point. For salads, we like extra-virgin olive oil. 
We recognize that some people feel that canola and 
coconut oil are the evil duo of the greasy world. The charges against them include GMO issues for the former, and saturated fats for the latter. If this is a 
concern, you can always opt to replace them with 
peanut or vegetable oil. Orange marmalade:  You will ﬁ  nd this in several of 
our recipes, because we love its bold ﬂ  avor. Look for 
the kind that has no sugar or artiﬁ  cial sweetener 
added: It isn’t bitter at all. Try Smucker’s Simply Fruit or St. Dalfour brands.
Salt and pepper:  We want to respect your habits 
when it comes to salt and pepper, so the measure-ments you will ﬁ  nd in our recipes are meant as a 
guideline. You will usually see “to taste” added after 
these two ingredients so that you can follow your 
needs and preferences. 
The salt you are most likely to ﬁ  nd in our kitchens 
is sea salt, because it retains some minerals, albeit a minuscule amount. We have been known to add a small amount of black salt in recipes that aim to replicate eggs, because it lends a delicate sulfurous ﬂ avor to foods.
Sambal oelek:  Spicy sauce made of chiles, vinegar, 
and salt, this condiment is available at most super-
markets in the international food section.
Soy sauce:  If you prefer tamari or Bragg’s Liquid 
Aminos, they are all interchangeable. We like to use the reduced-sodium kind so as to have control over the saltiness of our food. The liquid aminos only con-tain a small amount of natural sodium and happen to be gluten free. 
Spices and herbs:  Sometimes we call for fresh herbs 
and spices, and sometimes we call for dried in our recipes. Unless otherwise noted, you can use either, 
but of course, fresh is best whenever available. As 
a general rule, 1 part dried herb is the equivalent of 3 parts fresh. HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 16Sriracha:  This hot sauce is made from chile peppers, 
garlic, vinegar, and salt ground together to form a smooth paste. Check the ingredient list carefully, because some brands contain ﬁ  sh sauce.
Sweeteners:  We most commonly use organic 
evaporated cane juice (guaranteed to be vegan, as 
opposed to most brands of granulated cane sugar), organic beet sugar, organic brown sugar, Sucanat, and raw sugar. As for the liquid sweeteners, why not try agave nectar, pure maple syrup, and brown rice syrup? We love them, too. 
Tofu and tempeh:  Silken tofu is most frequently 
used for desserts and sauces, and extra ﬁ  rm or 
even super ﬁ  rm (yes, there is such a thing!) is best 
for frying and baking. Be sure to press the tofu if 
you’re going to fry it, because it makes for a chewier and meatier texture. To press, drain the block and then sandwich it between either two folded kitchen towels or several folded layers of paper towels. Place a heavy object (a book or frying pan) on top to press out excess moisture, and let sit for 1 hour.TVP (textured vegetable protein):  These granules 
are used to replicate and replace ground meats in many of our recipes. TVP is inexpensive and found in most health food stores. Made from defatted soy ﬂ our, this gluten-free staple will become a must-have 
in your kitchen. We mostly stick to the small gran-ules, but the larger chunks can also come in handy 
for stir-fries, soups, and curries.
Vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our:  A perfect source of 
protein, this ﬂ  our is sometimes used in breads to 
improve texture and is also used to prepare seitan, also known as wheat meat . Gluten is the natural 
protein portion removed from whole wheat. It can be found in most grocery stores or ordered on-line. Keep in mind that vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our is 
completely different from high-gluten ﬂ  our: these 
two are not interchangeable and will not perform 
similarly in recipes.
Yeast:  We use active dry yeast in our recipes, 
unless otherwise noted, because it is readily available in markets. It is sold in either strips of three envelopes or in small jars. One envelope is equal to 2
1⁄4 teaspoons (1⁄4 ounce, or 7 g).YOUR COMPLETE PREP GUIDE TO WICKED GOOD MEALS 17Food Allergies and Recipe Icons
We have done our best to label our recipes, but allergens still have a way of sneaking into ingredients. Please 
closely monitor all food labels, and contact food manufacturers when in doubt.
Throughout this book you will ﬁ  nd recipes labeled in the following way:
GLUTEN FREE
Gluten Free:  Recipes that do not contain 
gluten. Double-check ingredient labels.
LOW FAT
Low Fat:  Recipes that contain 3 grams (the equiva-
lent of 27 fat calories) of fat, or less, per serving.QUICK AND EASY
Quick and Easy:  Recipes that take less than 
30 minutes to whip up, provided you have 
intermediate cooking and/or baking skills.
SOY FREE
Soy Free:  Recipes that do not contain soy.
Double-check ingredient labels.
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
You know your mama was right all 
along—munching on your greens is im-
portant and a great way to balance out the slightly more exuberant dishes you’ll just have to try out from this book. Find hints as to what veggies or salads we like to pair certain recipes with by using this sidebar as your guide.CHAPTER 2
Down-Home Breakfasts
Fluffy pancakes, hearty bowls, delectable doughnuts, 
and scrumptious scrambles—sweet and savory breakfasts to fuel you up for a hectic day.
Picture this: You wake up on the wrong side of the bed and ﬁ  nd yourself wondering how those 
eight restful hours could have ﬂ  own by so quickly. You pull yourself out of bed with only one thing 
on your mind: caffeine. 
Hold that thought. Is that turbo-charged, ultra-grande, soy macchiato of yours really going to 
nourish you? Or are we going to ﬁ  nd you face down on your keyboard two hours from now? 
Let us help by offering this tidbit of advice: Hearty breakfasts make you full. Being full makes you 
focused. Being focused makes the day go by more quickly. And gets you back in that warm bed of yours in no time. 
Don’t say we never gave you anything.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 20FOR THE RUM SYRUP:
1 cup (192 g) Sucanat
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) dark rum or nondairy milk 
1⁄2 teaspoon rum extract if using nondairy milk
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) water
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
FOR THE CANDIED MACADAMIA NUTS:
1⁄4 cup (48 g) Sucanat
2 tablespoons (30 ml) water
1 cup (132 g) macadamia nuts
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
FOR THE FRENCH TOAST:
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 tablespoons (24 g) Sucanat
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 cup (235 ml) coconut milk
1 recipe Juliette Brioche (page 184) or French bread, stale 
for best results, cut into eight 1-inch (2.5-cm) thick slices
Nondairy butter, for frying
FOR SERVING:
8 slices fresh pineapple
Nondairy whipped cream, for serving (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the syrup:  Combine all the ingredients in a 
saucepan. Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and cook until the Sucanat dissolves. Set aside. Let cool completely. (Extra may be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator.)
To make the candied macadamia nuts:  Place the 
Sucanat, water, nuts, and salt in a saucepan. Heat over medium-high, bring to a low boil, and cook for about 4 minutes. Stir constantly, lowering the heat to medium, until the nuts get some color to them. Remove from the heat. Set aside.
To make the French toast:  In a shallow dish, combine 
the ﬂ  our, Sucanat, cinnamon, and salt. Whisk in the milk 
until mostly smooth. Let stand for a few minutes.
Heat a pan over medium-high heat. Dip the bread, 1 slice 
at a time, into the batter. You just want a thin layer of batter on the bread.
Melt a pat of butter in the pan. Cook the toast until 
golden and crispy, about 2 minutes on each side. Repeat with the remaining slices.
Serve the French toast topped with the pineapple slices, 
a drizzle of rum syrup, and a sprinkle of candied nuts. If you have whipped cream . . . you know what to do.
YIELD:  4 servings, 1 cup (235 ml) rum syrupPIÑA COLADA FRENCH TOAST 
WITH CANDIED MACADAMIA NUTS 
If you top this already crazy good brunch item with vegan whipped cream, you will get 
marriage proposals. (We apologize in advance if you aren’t actually looking to get hitched.) 
The rum syrup also makes more than enough for a few breakfasts (or as a topping for ice cream). DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 21INGREDIENTS:
Vegetable oil, for frying
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄8 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄4 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (235 ml) vanilla-ﬂ  avored nondairy milk
1⁄2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 loaf hearty artisan French bread, stale is best
Powdered sugar, for serving 
Warm maple syrup, for serving DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oil to 350°F (180°C).
In a shallow dish, combine the ﬂ  our, sugar, cinnamon, salt, 
baking powder, and baking soda. Add the milk and vanilla and stir to combine until there are virtually no lumps.
Cut the bread into strips about 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) 
long and 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick and wide. Dip each strip of bread into the batter and place in the hot oil using tongs. If using a deep fryer, it should take only 5 to 10 seconds to get nice and golden and crispy. If using a frying pan, place on one side for 5 to 10 seconds, then ﬂ  ip and repeat 
until both sides are golden and crispy.
Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb the 
excess oil. Sprinkle with the powdered sugar and serve with the warm maple syrup for dipping.
YIELD:  12 to 16 dipsticksFRENCH TOAST DIPSTICKS
QUICK AND EASY
These dippers are a fun way to serve breakfast, especially for kids. 
If you have a deep fryer, these will cook up in mere seconds. 
If not, a frying pan ﬁ  lled with about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) of oil will do the trick just ﬁ  ne.
RECIPE NOTE
Funny thing is . . . French Toast isn’t really French at 
all. The earliest references date back to the late 4th or early 5th century AD, in a collection of Roman recipes known as the Apicius !DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 23INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (72 g) sweet corn cereal, such as 
Cap’n Crunch, crushed into a powder
1⁄2 cup (62 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄4 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (235 ml) vanilla-ﬂ  avored nondairy milk
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter, for frying
6 slices stale French bread, about 1⁄2 inch (1.25 cm) thick
Maple syrup, for servingDIRECTIONS:
Combine the crushed cereal, ﬂ  our, baking soda, and bak-
ing powder in a shallow dish. Stir in the milk to make a thick batter.
Preheat a frying pan over high heat. Melt 1 tablespoon 
(14 g) of the butter for every 2 slices of French toast.
Dip each piece of bread into the batter. The batter is 
thick, so you may need to smear it on the bread with your ﬁ  ngers. Panfry for about 2 minutes per side, or until 
golden and crispy. Serve hot with pure maple syrup.
YIELD:  6 slicesTHE CAPTAIN’S FRENCH TOAST 
QUICK AND EASY
We call for Cap’n Crunch cereal in this recipe, but you can swap in an alternative if you prefer. 
Although Cap’n Crunch does appear to be vegan, it does contain an insane amount of weird things 
in the ingredients, so try using an all-natural variety, such as Gorilla Munch, if you like.
RECIPE NOTE
In addition to butter and warm maple syrup, sliced 
strawberries (as shown) or fresh blueberries and a dollop of nondairy whipped cream taste spectacular served atop this sweet breakfast treat.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 24COCOA KAHLÚA PANCAKES
QUICK AND EASY
Ooh, yummy! Chocolate pancakes with a grown-up ﬂ  air!
SALTY SWEET OATS   
QUICK AND EASY SOY FREE
Peanut butter + jelly, ice cream + cake, salty + sweet . . . these combinations just belong together, 
and we wouldn’t have it any other way. Put these oats to good use by incorporating them into 
pancakes or wafﬂ  es (page 26), cookies (page 248), or simply eat them by the ﬁ  stful.INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄4 cup (20 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon (7 g) instant espresso powder
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) vanilla-ﬂ  avored or plain soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) coffee liqueur, such as Kahlúa
1⁄4 cup (60 g) vegetable oil
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Nondairy butter, maple syrup, or Chocolate Syrup 
(page 227), for servingDIRECTIONS:
In a medium-size mixing bowl, sift together the ﬂ  our, 
salt, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, cocoa powder, and espresso powder . In a separate small bowl, combine 
the soymilk and lemon juice. It will curdle and become like buttermilk. Add the liqueur, oil, and vanilla and stir to combine. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry and mix until there are virtually no lumps. (For the teetotal-ers and kiddies out there, replace the Kahlúa with strong brewed coffee. Add 
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice 
or granulated sugar to make up for the lost sweetness.)
Preheat a nonstick skillet over high heat. Drop about 
1⁄2 cup (150 g) of batter per pancake onto the pan. This 
batter is a bit thicker than most pancake batters, so it will need a little coaxing to spread on the pan. When the batter begins to bubble, ﬂ  ip and cook on the other side 
until golden brown. Serve immediately with whatever you fancy.
YIELD:  Six 6-inch (15-cm) pancakes
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (160 g) old-fashioned oats
4 ounces (113 g) crushed pretzels 
1⁄4 cup (36 g) light brown sugar, not packed
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure maple syrup
2 teaspoons (4.6 g) ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
2 tablespoons (30 ml) waterDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 325°F (170°C, or gas mark 3). 
Place all the ingredients in a large bowl and stir to com-
bine. Spread evenly on a large rimmed baking sheet.
Bake for 8 minutes, stirring well. Bake for another 8 min-
utes, or until golden brown. Let cool on the baking sheet. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks.
YIELD:  4 cups (400 g)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 26OVERNIGHT OAT PANCAKES OR WAFFLES
Although we are big fans of typical pancakes and wafﬂ  es, we wanted to make things even 
easier on you by creating a delicious batter you can prepare the night before and enjoy 
ﬁ rst thing in the morning. Weekend breakfasts don’t get much easier than this!
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) light coconut milk, at room temperature, 
plus more for ﬁ  nal batter
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat pastry or all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 cup (100 g) Salty Sweet Oats (page 24), 
plus extra for sprinkling
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
Nonstick cooking spray, if making wafﬂ  es
Vegetable oil, if making pancakes
Compote (page 229) or 
Marinated Strawberries (page 234), for serving
Nondairy whipped cream, for servingDIRECTIONS:
Combine the 1 cup (235 ml) milk, sugar, and yeast. Let 
stand for 5 minutes until bubbles and foam form. Using a fork, stir in the vanilla, ﬂ  our, 1 cup (100 g) oats, baking 
powder, and salt until combined. Cover with plastic wrap and place in the refrigerator overnight.
The next morning, remove from the refrigerator, stir the 
thick batter with a fork, cover again, and leave on the counter for 1 hour to bring back to room temperature. 
To make wafﬂ  es: Adjust the batter thinness if needed 
by adding extra milk so that the batter is just pourable. Following the manufacturer’s instructions, coat the wafﬂ  e 
iron with cooking spray in between each wafﬂ  e, when the 
machine has been sufﬁ  ciently preheated. Add about 
3⁄4 
cup (170 g) batter per wafﬂ  e in a Belgian-style wafﬂ  e iron, 
1⁄2 cup (113 g) per standard wafﬂ  e iron. For extra crispness, 
toast the wafﬂ  es before enjoying.
To make pancakes:  Adjust the batter thinness if needed 
by adding extra milk so that the batter is just pourable. Heat a nonstick pan over medium-low heat and coat with 1 teaspoon oil. Add about 
1⁄3 cup (76 g) batter, and 
cook pancakes for 6 minutes on each side, or until golden brown and fully cooked. Add extra oil as needed while cooking.
Serve with compote or Marinated Strawberries and 
nondairy whipped cream. Sprinkle extra oats on top.
YIELD:  6 to 8 medium pancakes, or 3 Belgian or 
6 standard wafﬂ  esDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 27BLUEBERRY BUTTERMILK PANCAKES
QUICK AND EASY
When Joni and Celine embarked on a road trip to Portland, Oregon, Joni was on 
a quest to ﬁ  nd some ﬂ  uffy, delicious diner-style vegan blueberry pancakes. After being 
disappointed time and time again, she decided to take things into her own hands; 
this recipe will cook up ﬂ  ufﬁ er and tastier than any pancake you’ve ever tried! 
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1⁄2 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated 
sugar
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) soymilk
3 tablespoons (45 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 tablespoon (8 g) Ener-G egg replacer powder
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) warm water
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter, melted, optional
1 cup (145 g) fresh or thawed frozen blueberries
Nondairy butter and maple syrup, for servingDIRECTIONS:
In a medium-size mixing bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, salt, 
baking powder, baking soda, and sugar. In a small bowl, combine the soymilk, lemon juice, and vanilla. It will curdle and become like buttermilk. In another small bowl, whisk together the egg replacer and warm water until foamy. Add to the buttermilk mixture. Add the wet ingredients to the dry and mix until the batter just comes together. Mix in the melted butter.
Heat a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. (If 
not using a nonstick skillet, melt a little bit of nondairy butter in the pan to prevent sticking.) Ladle about 
1⁄2 cup 
(140 g) of batter into the pan for each pancake. Sprinkle a handful of blueberries on each pancake. When the batter begins to bubble, ﬂ  ip and cook on the other side until 
golden brown. 
Serve immediately with butter and maple syrup.
YIELD:  Six 6-inch (15-cm) pancakes
RECIPE NOTE
If your serious about making your pancakes perfect, 
follow these in-depth directions: Preheat your pan, then melt the butter. Add the batter to the center of the pan, leaving ample room to ﬂ  ip. Watch the batter. 
When it begins to bubble and the edges start to look dry, use a spatula to lift the edge and check the color. If it is nice and golden brown then it is time to ﬂ  ip! 
Slide the spatula under the pancake, and in one quick, smooth motion, lift and ﬂ  ip the pancake. Make sure 
it lands back in the center of the pan. Lift the edge to check color after about a minute. Once golden, ﬂ  ip 
one last time, give it a press, and if no batter oozes, then the pancake is done!DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 29BANANA SPLIT WAFFLES
We love to turn regular breakfast items into acceptable morning versions of 
our favorite decadent d esserts, and it was high time banana split made our list.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (96 g) Sucanat
2 ripe bananas
2 cups (470 ml) nondairy milk 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil 
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
11⁄2 cups (120 g) old-fashioned oats
11⁄2 cups (180 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, divided
1 tablespoon (12 g) baking powder
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
1⁄2 cup (80 g) dried cherriesDIRECTIONS:
Combine the Sucanat, bananas, milk, oil, vanilla, cin-
namon, oats, 1⁄2 cup (60 g) of the ﬂ  our, baking powder, 
and salt in a large bowl. Use an immersion blender and blend until smooth. Stir in the cornstarch and cherries, along with the remaining 1 cup (120 g) ﬂ  our. Let stand for 
15 minutes.
Following the manufacturer’s instructions, coat the 
wafﬂ e iron with cooking spray in between each wafﬂ  e, 
when the machine has been sufﬁ  ciently preheated. Pour 
about 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) batter for Belgian wafﬂ  es, about 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) for standard, adjusting to ﬁ  t your wafﬂ  e 
iron. For ultimate crispness, toast the wafﬂ  es before 
enjoying them. 
YIELD:  6 Belgian wafﬂ  es or 10 to 12 standard wafﬂ  es
RECIPE NOTE
Want to make something mighty tasty even better ? 
Enjoy these with a big scoop of your favorite ice cream (Cake Batter Ice Cream, page 222, is pictured here), nondairy whipped cream, and Chocolate Syrup (page 227).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 30GRAMMA JO’S TATER TOT SURPRISE
Joni’s Gramma Jo makes these potatoes every time the family gets together for a holiday breakfast 
or brunch. It makes a lot, so if you’re looking for a handy way to use up the leftovers, try making a 
breakfast wrap. Add a pile of potatoes into the center of a soft ﬂ  our tortilla, top with a little hot sauce 
and a few avocado slices, roll it all up and you have yourself a handy on-the-go breakfast!
INGREDIENTS:
1 large bag (32 ounces, or 900 g) tater tots, thawed
1⁄2 cup (50 g) ﬁ  nely chopped scallion
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
2 cups (470 ml) Creamy Mushroom Soup (page 71) or 
store-bought vegan mushroom soup
1 cup (112 g) shredded nondairy cheese, such as Daiya
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter, melted
4 cups (112 g) cornﬂ  ake cereal, crushedDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Cut each tater tot in half (this is optional, but makes it 
better for sure!) and add to a large bowl. Add the scallion, sour cream, soup, cheese, and melted butter and mix well, using your hands. Spread evenly in a 9 × 13 × 2-inch 
(22.5 × 32.5 × 5-cm) baking dish.
Top with the cornﬂ  akes and bake, uncovered, for 30 min-
utes. The cornﬂ  akes won’t really brown, so just know that 
it needs to be hot all the way through. Allow to cool for about 10 minutes before cutting into squares and serving.
YIELD:  12 servingsBREAKFAST POTATOES O’BRIEN
These are the kind of breakfast potatoes that you can order at any ole greasy spoon. Lucky for us, 
we can make them at home! It’s up to you whether or not to leave the skins on the taters.
INGREDIENTS:
6 medium-size russet potatoes, 
diced (81⁄2 cups, or 1275 g)
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter
1 medium-size yellow or white onion, diced
1 green bell pepper, cored, seeded, and ﬁ  nely diced
1 red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and ﬁ  nely diced
1 clove garlic, minced
1 jar (4 ounces, or 112 g) diced pimientos, drained 
Vegetable oil, for frying
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Soak the potatoes in cold water to prevent discoloration 
while the other ingredients are being prepped, and then drain and pat dry thoroughly.
Melt the butter in a frying pan over medium heat. Add the 
onion, peppers, garlic, and pimientos. Sauté until tender and fragrant, 5 to 7 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside. 
In a large cast-iron skillet or frying pan, pour the oil to 
a depth of 
1⁄4 inch (6 mm). Heat over medium-high heat. 
Add the potatoes and cook until golden brown and fork-tender. Carefully drain the excess oil.
Add the pepper and onion mix, season with salt and pep-
per, and toss, continuing to cook until completely heated through, 3 to 5 minutes. 
YIELD:  6 to 8 servingsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 31BREAKFAST BURRITO
Scrambled tofu, potatoes, and avocado wrapped together in a tortilla? 
The day ahead magically appears a tad less stressful all of a sudden.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
2 tablespoons (20 g) chopped shallot
1 cup (150 g) diced red potatoes
1 pound (454 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, 
drained, pr essed, and crumbled
1 tablespoon (17 g) brown sauce, such as HP, or 
1 teaspoon vegan Worcestershire sauce
15 ounces (425 g) ﬁ  re-roasted or 
regular diced tomatoes, with liquid
3 tablespoons (48 g) natural peanut butter
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon (15 ml) soy sauce
1 teaspoon ground ginger
4 burrito-size ﬂ  our tortillas 
1 medium-size avocado, halved, pitted, 
peeled, and cut into 8 slicesDIRECTIONS:
In a large skillet, combine the oil, shallot, and potatoes. 
Cook over medium-high heat for 10 minutes, or until the potatoes start to brown, stirring often. Add the tofu and fry until golden brown, about 10 minutes longer, stirring often.
In the meantime, in a medium-size bowl, combine the 
brown sauce, tomatoes, peanut butter, garlic, soy sauce, and ginger. Stir the mixture into the potatoes and tofu, and cook for 4 minutes longer, until the sauce reduces down a bit.
Divide the preparation among 4 tortillas, and top with 
2 avocado slices each. Wrap up the tortillas tightly, and serve.
YIELD:  4 burritos
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Turn this into a complete and nutritious 
meal by serving alongside a freshly made and in-season fruit salad (technically not veggies, we know, but “Eat Your Produce” sounded too silly). Our favorite combo is strawberry halves and fresh pineapple chunks. HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 32BREAKFAST CHICKEN-FRIED STEAK 
The coating on this chicken-fried steak is both sweet and savory, crispy and crunchy, making it 
perfect breakfast fare. Serve it smothered in White Sausage Gravy (page 33).
FOR THE CUTLETS:
2 cups (288 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (7 g) garlic powder
2 tablespoons (14 g) onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) soy sauce 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) steak sauce
2 tablespoons (30 ml) oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
FOR THE BOILING BROTH:
6 cups (1.41 l) vegetable broth
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) soy sauce
3 cloves garlic, cut in half
1 bay leaf
FOR THE CRISPY COATING:
1 cup (235 ml) plain soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 cup (36 g) sweet corn cereal, such as Cap’n Crunch, 
crushed into a powder
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 teaspoon paprika
1⁄2 teaspoon dried parsley
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon dried mustard
Oil, for fryingDIRECTIONS:
To make the cutlets:  Combine the wheat gluten, whole 
wheat pastry ﬂ  our, garlic powder, onion powder, black 
pepper, and nutritional yeast in a large mixing bowl. 
Combine the vegetable broth, soy sauce, steak sauce, oil, 
and liquid smoke in a separate bowl. Add the wet ingredi-ents to the dry and knead for about 10 minutes. You can do this right in the bowl. Let rest for about 20 minutes to allow the gluten to develop. 
Divide the dough into 7 equal pieces. Form each piece 
into an oblong patty about 
1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) thick.
To make the broth:  Add all of the broth ingredients to 
a large pot. Bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer. 
Carefully place each patty into the simmering broth, 
cover, and simmer for 30 minutes. Return occasionally to gently stir and prevent the steaks from sticking to the bottom and each other.
Remove the steaks from the broth and set aside. Reserve 
1 steak (unfried) to be used in the gravy.
To make the crispy coating:  In a shallow dish mix 
together the soymilk and lemon juice; it will curdle and become like buttermilk. In a separate shallow dish, mix together the crushed cereal, ﬂ  our, and spices.
Pour the oil to a depth of about 
1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) into a 
deep fryer or a frying pan and heat to 350°F (180°C).
Take 1 steak and dip into the buttermilk mixture to coat, 
then dredge in the cereal mixture for a nice thick coating. Carefully place in the oil and fry until golden brown and crispy.
Remove from the oil and place on a paper towel–lined 
plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat to fry the remain-ing 5 steaks.
YIELD:  6 steaksDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 33WHITE SAUSAGE GRAVY
QUICK AND EASY
When we went vegan, we thought rich, peppery, thick breakfast gravy was 
a thing of the past. The addition of nondairy sour cream, either 
store-bought or homemade (page 211), takes this from good to GRAVY .
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (31 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 cups (470 ml) vegetable broth
1⁄4 cup (60 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 piece Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak (page 32), 
cut into tiny chunksDIRECTIONS:
Melt the butter in a saucepot over medium-high heat. 
Add the ﬂ  our and stir to make a light golden roux (or until 
the raw ﬂ  our smell is gone). Slowly stir in the vegetable 
broth and continue to whisk until there are no lumps and the mixture is thick like gravy, 2 to 3 minutes.
Remove from the heat. Stir in the sour cream, pepper, 
and steak pieces. Stir until thick, creamy, and smooth.
YIELD:  2
1⁄2 cups (590 ml)
RECIPE NOTE
This white gravy is perfect to ladle over the Bacon 
Onion Biscuits (page 191) or the Chick’ N’ Wafﬂ  es 
Party (page 109), and is ab solutely essen tial for the 
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak (at left).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 34HAWAIIAN BENEDICT
We all long for vacation time we never seem to get. Might as well escape whichever 
way we can, like with these stick-to-your-ribs open-faced breakfast sandwiches.
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
14 ounces (397 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, drained, 
pressed, and crumbled
2 tablespoons (20 g) chopped shallot
2 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 teaspoon paprika
2 teaspoons (4 g) curry powder
1 teaspoon turmeric
1 tablespoon (8 g) nutritional yeast
8 slices store-bought vegan Canadian bacon or 
Tempeh Bacon (page 84) 
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
8 slices fresh pineapple
4 Avocado Rolls (page 194) or store-bought bread rolls
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212), made 
using 2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
1⁄4 cup (15 g) chopped fresh parsleyDIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add 
the tofu, shallot, garlic, and seasonings and cook for 10 minutes, until the tofu turns browns, stirring often. Set aside.
Cook the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat until 
brown, about 5 minutes. Set aside.
Melt the butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add 
the pineapple slices and sauté until heated through, about 6 minutes. Alternatively, use a grill pan to get those visually pleasing grill marks. Set aside.
Toast the rolls. Spread 1 tablespoon (15 ml) sauce on 
each side of the rolls. Top with 1 slice of bacon. Divide the scrambled tofu among the rolls. Top with 1 slice of pine-apple. Sprinkle the parsley on top, and serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 servingsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 35HEARTY BREAKFAST BOWL
All your breakfast favorites together in one hearty bowlful: 
scrambled eggs, potatoes, bacon, and cheesy gravy, oh my! 
FOR THE CHEESY GRAVY:
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄4 cup (56 g) ﬁ  nely ground raw cashews
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SCRAMBLED EGGS:
10 ounces (280 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, dr ained and pressed
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄4 teaspoon turmeric
1⁄4 teaspoon black salt
Sea salt and pepper, to taste
2 tablespoons (30 ml) mild-ﬂ  avored 
vegetable oil, for frying
30 tater tots, prepared according to package directions
1⁄4 cup (20 g) imitation bacon bits, store-bought or 
homemade (page 216), or crumbled pieces 
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips (page 38)
Diced scallion, for serving (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the gravy:  To a frying pan, add the vegetable 
broth and butter, and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Lower the heat and stir in the nutritional yeast, cashews, and sour cream. Stir until thickened. Season with salt and pepper. Keep warm until ready to serve.
To make the eggs:  In a medium-size bowl, crumble the 
tofu and add the all of the seasonings. Stir together until well incorporated.
Heat the oil in a frying pan over medium-high heat. Add 
the tofu mixture and cook for about 5 minutes, tossing continuously, until heated through. Divide between 2 bowls and add 15 tater tots to each bowl.
Pour the gravy over the tofu scramble and potatoes, 
top with the bacon bits and a sprinkling of scallions, and serve.
YIELD:  2 hearty bowlsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 36BACON AND EGG BREAKFAST SANDWICH
Make this sandwich the next time you’re craving one of those Mc-things. And if you want it 
combo style, serve it up with some Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien (page 30). Note that the spread tastes 
great on all kinds of sandwiches, from Tofurkey and veggie burgers, to tempeh tuna and BLTs.
We use black salt (which is actually pink!) in this recipe to really get that 
egg-y ﬂ  avor in the tofu. It can be found in gourmet and specialty shops, 
and sometimes Indian grocery shops too (where it may be packaged as rock salt). 
FOR THE SPREAD:
1⁄3 cup (80 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄3 cup (75 g) vegan mayonnaise, store-bought or 
homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 teaspoon liquid smoke
2 tablespoons (13 g) ﬁ  nely chopped scallion or chives
1 tablespoon (3 g) fresh dill or 1 teaspoon dried
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SANDWICH:
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1⁄2 teaspoon turmeric
1 teaspoon black salt
1 tablespoon (8 g) nutritional yeast
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
Sea salt and pepper, to taste
4 slices drained and pressed super-ﬁ  rm tofu about 
3 inches (8 cm) square by 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick
1⁄4 cup (20 g) imitation bacon bits, store-bought or 
homemade (page 216), or crumbled pieces 
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips (page 38)
4 bagels, English mufﬁ  ns, or rolls, sliced in half, or 
8 slices bread, toastedDIRECTIONS:
To make the spread:  Mix all the ingredients together in 
a small bowl and refrigerate until ready to use.
To make the sandwiches:  Mix together the oil, turmeric, 
black salt, nutritional yeast, mustard, sea salt, and pepper in a shallow dish and set aside.
Make a pocket in each of the tofu slices by inserting a 
sharp knife into one edge and cutting almost all the way through, leaving it sealed on three sides. Fill each pocket with 1 tablespoon (5 g) bacon bits.
Preheat a nonstick or cast-iron skillet over high heat.Dip each piece of tofu into the oil and spice mixture to 
coat on all sides and transfer to the frying pan. Fry until heated through and a slight crust forms.
While the tofu is frying, smear a good amount of spread 
on both sides of the toasted bread. Place a tofu pocket on each sandwich and serve.
YIELD:  4 sandwichesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 38HICKORY-SMOKED BREAKFAST STRIPS
These strips are a fun way to add some smoky protein to your breakfast. They also work 
well in sandwiches, and pretty much anywhere else a bacon strip would be called for. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth or water
3 tablespoons (45 ml) hickory-ﬂ  avored liquid smoke
1⁄2 cup (72 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
2 tablespoons (16 g) tapioca starch or arrowroot powder
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
11⁄2 teaspoons sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) additional water
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) canola or other mild-ﬂ  avored oil, 
plus more for frying
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure maple syrup
1 tablespoon (15 ml) sesame oilDIRECTIONS:
Reconstitute the TVP one of two ways:  1) Combine with 
the broth and liquid smoke, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 minutes. Or 2) Combine the liquid smoke with the TVP, bring the broth to a boil, pour over the TVP, stir, cover, and let sit for 10 minutes.
Add the reconstituted TVP, along with the wheat gluten, 
starch, paprika, salt, pepper, water, 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) canola 
oil, maple syrup, and sesame oil to a food processor and 
process until a smooth dough forms with no TVP lumps. If the dough is too wet, add a bit more ﬂ  our. The dough 
should be a soft, uniform ball. Let the dough rest for 20 minutes to allow the gluten to develop.
On a smooth, nonstick surface (such as a ﬂ  exible cutting 
board or Silpat) break off a handful of dough and roll as thin as possible, trying to get it to at least 
1⁄16 inch 
(1.5 mm). (Use another ﬂ  exible cutting board or Silpat on 
top, to prevent the rolling pin from sticking, if you have an extra. A pasta roller would work nicely here, too.)
Pour a thin layer of canola oil into a frying pan and 
heat over high heat. While the oil is heating, cut the dough into strips about 1 inch (2.5 cm) wide and about 6 inches (15 cm) long. (Cut wavy lines so that it more mimics the look of bacon rather than cutting straight, rectangular strips.)
Place the strips in the hot oil and fry for about 15 to 
20 seconds, until crispy and almost blackened. Flip and repeat on the other side. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil.
Repeat until all the strips are fried. Serve as you would 
any bacon strip. (These freeze nicely. Store them in layers separated by waxed paper or parchment in an airtight container for up to 1 month.)
YIELD:  1 pound (454 g)DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 39REAL MEN EAT QUICHE LORRAINE
You can make this quiche with or without a crust. (If you opt for a crust, go with the Basic Pie 
Crust [page 234] for ﬂ  aky goodness, or opt for a store-bought one to make the task even easier.) 
You can use a 10-inch (25-cm) cast-iron skillet instead of a pie pan as well. Really, you can 
make whatever changes you like, as long as you keep your ﬁ  nal step the same: devour!
INGREDIENTS:
1 pie crust, store-bought or 
homemade (page 234), prebaked
14 ounces (397 g) silken tofu, drained but not pressed
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄4 cup (30 g) chickpea ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) olive oil
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄4 teaspoon turmeric
1 tablespoon (15 g) Dijon mustard
1⁄4 teaspoon black salt
1⁄2 teaspoon cumin
1⁄4 teaspoon paprika
1⁄2 teaspoon liquid smoke
1 cup (160 g) diced red or white onion
11⁄4 cups (140 g) shredded vegan cheese, 
such as Daiya, divided
10 slices Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips (page 38), or 
store-bought imitation bacon, crumbledDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Coat a 9-inch (23-cm) pie pan with cooking spray and line with the pie crust. If using a homemade crust, be sure to prebake it at 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4) for about 16 minutes. Wrap the crust edges in foil to avoid overbaking.
In a blender, combine the tofu, nutritional yeast, chickpea 
ﬂ our, cornstarch, olive oil, onion powder, garlic powder, 
turmeric, mustard, black salt, cumin, paprika, and liquid smoke. Purée until smooth.
Transfer the mixture to a mixing bowl and stir in the 
onion, 1 cup (112 g) of the cheese, and bacon. Pour the mixture evenly into the pie crust. Bake, uncovered, for 45 minutes.
Carefully remove the pan from the oven, sprinkle with the 
remaining 
1⁄4 cup (28 g) cheese, and bake for 20 minutes 
longer, or until the top is golden brown and crispy and the center is ﬁ  rm.
Let cool for at least 10 minutes before slicing and serving.
YIELD:  8 servingsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 41TOFUEVOS RANCHEROS
This spicy breakfast will deﬁ  nitely ﬁ  ll you up until lunchtime, if not dinner!
FOR THE RANCHERO SAUCE:
2 tablespoons (30 g) vegetable oil
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 medium-size yellow onion, diced
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) diced tomatoes, with juice
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) black beans, 
rinsed and drained
4 to 6 slices jarred jalapeños, or to taste, diced
1 chipotle pepper in adobo, or to taste, diced
1 tablespoon (15 g) adobo sauce from can, or to taste 
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE TOFUEVOS:
20 ounces (560 g) super-ﬁ  rm tofu, dr ained and pressed
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) onion powder
1 teaspoon black salt
1⁄2 teaspoon turmeric
1⁄4 teaspoon black pepper
2 tablespoons (30 g) vegetable oil
4 teaspoons (4.5 g) nondairy butter
4 corn or ﬂ  our tortillas
Nondairy sour cream, store-bought or 
homemade (page 211); avocado, pitted and 
sliced; and chopped scallion, for servingDIRECTIONS:
To make the ranchero sauce:  Heat the oil in a medium-
size pot over medium heat. Add the garlic and onion and sauté until translucent and fragrant, 3 to 5 minutes.
Add the tomatoes, beans, jalapeños, chipotle, and adobo. 
Stir to mix. Cover, and simmer for 15 minutes.
Remove from the heat and using an immersion blender, 
pulse the mixture several times until pasty, but still chunky—like really chunky refried beans. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside, but keep warm.
To make the tofuevos:  Crumble the tofu and combine 
with the nutritional yeast, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, turmeric, and pepper in a bowl. Use your hands to make sure everything gets mashed together.
Heat the oil in a pan over medium-high heat. Add the tofu 
mixture and panfry until heated through and just begin-ning to brown. Transfer back to the bowl and keep warm while you heat the tortillas.
Using the same pan, melt 1 teaspoon of butter over 
medium heat. Lightly panfry a tortilla on both sides until warm and soft. Transfer to a plate and cover lightly with a kitchen towel to keep warm. Repeat with the remaining 3 tortillas.
On each plate, divide the Tofuevos evenly on top of each 
tortilla, then pour the ranchero sauce on top of the tofuevos. Top with the sour cream, avocado, and scallion, and serve.
YIELD:  4 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 42CHORIZO AND EGG FRITTATA
A baked omelet that feeds eight! Don’t skimp and skip the crispy onions, 
because they really make this dish. A 10-inch (25-cm) cast-iron skillet works wonders 
in this recipe; if you don’t have one, go ahead and use a standard pie dish instead. 
Serve garnished with nondairy sour cream and fresh avocado slices.
INGREDIENTS:
14 ounces (392 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, dr ained and pressed
6 ounces (168 g) TVP Chorizo (page 216) or 
store-bought soy chorizo
1⁄2 cup (80 g) ﬁ  nely diced yellow or white onion
1⁄2 cup (60 g) masa harina ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch or arrowroot powder
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 teaspoon dried cilantro
1⁄2 teaspoon black salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
1⁄4 teaspoon ground coriander
1⁄4 teaspoon turmeric
1⁄4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (75 ml) vegetable oil, divided
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water
1⁄2 cup (56 g) shredded nondairy cheese, 
such as Daiya, divided
1 cup (96 g) crispy French fried onions
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
Nondairy sour cream, store-bought or homemade 
(page 211), and sliced avocado, for garnishDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).
In a large mixing bowl, combine the tofu, chorizo, onion, 
ﬂ our, cornstarch, nutritional yeast, spices, 1⁄4 cup (60 ml) 
of the oil, water, and 1⁄4 cup (28 g) of the cheese, using 
your hands to get everything uniformly combined and incorporated. The mixture will be like a wet sticky dough, but it shouldn’t be runny.
Coat a pan with the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) oil, 
and spread the mixture evenly in the pan.
Sprinkle the crispy onions evenly over the top. Sprinkle 
the remaining 
1⁄4 cup (28 g) cheese on top of the onions, 
and season with pepper to taste.
Cover with foil and bake for 45 minutes. Uncover and 
bake for 20 minutes longer.
Remove from the oven and allow to sit for 10 minutes 
before slicing. Top with sour cream and avocado upon serving.
YIELD:  8 servingsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 43COCONUT CRÈME BRÛLÉE 
BAKED OATMEAL
If you were looking for a way to have your ﬁ  rst meal of the day be not only 
nutritious and ﬁ  lling, but deliciously d essertlike and creative too, you can pat 
yourself on the back for coming across this baked oatmeal recipe. 
Just be sure to use the hand that doesn’t hold the fork when you do. 
INGREDIENTS:
21⁄2 cups (200 g) old-fashioned oats
3 tablespoons (36 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
3 tablespoons (45 ml) pure maple syrup
Juice and zest of 1 large lemon
14 ounces (414 ml) coconut milk
Pinch of salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1⁄2 cup (120 g) plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored coconut yogurt
1 cup (187 g) fresh or frozen raspberries
1⁄4 to 1⁄3 cup (55 to 73 g) packed light brown sugarDIRECTIONS:
Combine the oats, sugar, maple syrup, lemon juice and 
zest, coconut milk, salt, vanilla, and yogurt in a large 
bowl; you can either let the mixture stand overnight in the refrigerator, covered, to soften the oats or bake it immediately. If choosing the overnight option, stir in the berries just before baking. If baking immediately, stir in the berries now.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Lightly coat a 9 × 13-inch (23 × 33-cm) pan with nondairy 
butter. Scrape the mixture into the pan. 
Bake for 40 minutes, or until ﬁ  rm and golden brown. 
Sprinkle the top evenly with the brown sugar to taste. Return the pan to the oven and bake a few minutes longer, until the sugar melts. 
Use a kitchen torch or the broiler, and torch/broil until 
the sugar caramelizes; this should take 2 minutes in the broiler, but keep a careful close eye to make sure it doesn’t burn!
YIELD:  6 servingsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 45CINNAMON-Y BREAKFAST 
CEREAL COOKIES
Still eating your cereal with milk? Bor-ing! Here’s a more exciting, 
over-the-top way to enjoy your morning dose of crunchy goodness.
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose or whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
41⁄2 cups (225 g) vegan shredded wheat cereal, 
such as Kashi’s Cinnamon Harvest, mostly crushed
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 teaspoons (4.6 g) ground cinnamon
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) peanut oil
1⁄2 cup (128 g) natural crunchy peanut butter
1⁄4 cup (48 g) Sucanat
1⁄2 cup (96 g) raw sugar
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) pure maple syrup
1⁄2 cup (80 g) raisins or other dried fruit
1⁄3 to 1⁄2 cup (80 to 120 ml) nondairy milk 
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
1⁄2 teaspoon maple extractDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
Combine the ﬂ  our, shredded wheat, baking powder, salt, 
and cinnamon in a large bowl.
In a medium-size bowl, stir together the oil, peanut 
butter, Sucanat, raw sugar, maple syrup, raisins, 
1⁄3 cup 
(80 ml) of the milk, and extracts.
Combine with the dry ingredients, adding the remaining 
21⁄2 tablespoons (40 ml) milk if the mixture is too dry; 
you want it to hold together when pinched.
Divide the dough into 10 equal portions of 1⁄3 cup (120 g) 
per cookie. Place on the prepared baking sheets and ﬂ atten the dough, because the cookies won’t spread 
while baking.
Bake for 16 to 18 minutes, or until golden brown at the 
edges and ﬁ  rm. Let cool on the baking sheet for a few 
minutes before carefully transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
YIELD:  10 large breakfast cookiesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 46LEMON–POPPY SEED SCONES
Like most vegans, you know that your local coffee shop has plenty of baked goods, but not a one that 
a vegan can enjoy. These scones cook up nice and big, just like the ones you’d ﬁ  nd at a coffee shop—
minus the animal ingredients, of course. The lemon glaze is optional, but it whips up in seconds ﬂ  at, 
and adds a bit more of sweet lemony goodness to an otherwise subtly lemony and subtly sweet treat.
FOR THE SCONES:
4 cups (500 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon (9 g) poppy seeds
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) soymilk
2 teaspoons (4 g) lemon zest
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon pure lemon extract
1⁄4 cup (60 g) nondairy lemon-ﬂ  avored or plain yogurt
1⁄2 cup (112 g) cold nondairy butter, cut into small chunks
FOR THE GLAZE:
1⁄2 cup (60 g) powdered sugar, sifted
1 tablespoon (15 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄2 teaspoon packed lemon zestDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Lightly coat a 9-inch (23-cm) pie pan or dish with cooking spray.
To make the scones:  In a large mixing bowl, whisk 
together the ﬂ  our, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, 
salt, and poppy seeds.
In a separate small bowl, combine the soymilk, lemon 
zest, lemon juice, vanilla and lemon extracts, and yogurt. 
Set aside.
Cut the butter into the ﬂ  our mixture using an electric 
mixer on low speed until the mixture is coarse and crumbly. Slowly add the milk mixture, blending until just combined.
Turn the dough out onto a ﬂ  oured surface and gently 
knead until a soft dough ball forms. Take care not to over-work the dough; you actually want small pieces of butter to be visible (that’s what makes them tender and ﬂ  aky). 
Press the dough evenly into the pie pan. Using a sharp knife, cut the dough into 8 pie-shaped wedges.
Bake for 30 to 40 minutes, or until golden and a tooth-
pick inserted into the center comes out clean.
To make the glaze:  Whisk together all the glaze 
ingredients until smooth.
Remove the scones from the oven and allow to cool 
to the touch before removing from the pan and cutting apart.
Drizzle on the glaze.
YIELD:  8 giant café-size sconesDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 49PB AND OM MUFFINS
Enjoy one or two of these heartily ﬂ  uffy treats for breakfast, because your appetite is worth 
the extra time it will take you to actually have something to eat ﬁ  rst thing in the morning.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk, plus more as needed
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
3⁄4 cup (144 g) Sucanat
1⁄2 cup (128 g) natural crunchy peanut butter 
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy plain yogurt
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
11⁄2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
11⁄2 teaspoons pure orange extract
2 cups (240 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1 cup (80 g) old-fashioned oats
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon (9 g) baking soda
1⁄4 cup (80 g) orange marmalade (preferably not bitter) or 
1⁄4 cup (24 g) vegan marshmallow creme, 
such as Ricemellow CremeDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Line 12 standard mufﬁ  n cups with paper liners.
In a large bowl, combine the milk, vinegar, Sucanat,
peanut butter, yogurt, salt, and extracts until emulsiﬁ  ed. 
Add the ﬂ  our, oats, baking powder, and baking soda on 
top. Fold the dry ingredients into the wet, being careful not to overmix. If the batter is too dry (the texture of ingredients will vary), add a little extra milk until it is more manageable.
Place about 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of batter in each 
paper liner. Make a little well in the center of the batter, and place 1 teaspoon marmalade in each well. Top with the remaining batter, dividing it among the mufﬁ  ns. 
The batter should reach the top of the liner.
Bake for 22 to 24 minutes, or until golden brown and ﬁ  rm. 
Remove from the pan and place on a wire rack. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  12 mufﬁ  ns
RECIPE NOTE
Make these with orange marmalade (OM) mufﬁ  ns 
if you’re looking for more traditional breakfast goodies, or use marshmallow creme if you feel there’s no wrong time for ”ﬂ  uff” (nix the orange 
xtract if going for the latter). You can also use a different jam or jelly according to your preferences—we’re all about versatility!HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 50SUPER STREUSEL-Y MUFFINS
Who’s up for a deliciously sweet topping, combined with a ﬂ  uffy crumb, 
all rolled into a mufﬁ  n? Everyone, that’s who. Grab a couple of these babies 
and be on your way to having the day of your life. (Results not typical.)
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (76 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (84 g) packed brown sugar
21⁄2 teaspoons (5.5 g) ground cinnamon
1⁄4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (70 g) nondairy butter, softened
FOR THE MUFFINS:
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
Scant 1⁄2 cup (110 ml) soymilk
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese or plain yogurt
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1⁄2 teaspoon sea salt
1 tablespoon (8 g) ground cinnamon
1 cup (192 g) light brown sugar, not packed
2 teaspoons pure maple or vanilla extract
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
1 teaspoon baking sodaDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 
16 standard mufﬁ  n cups with paper liners.
To make the streusel:  In a medium-size bowl, combine 
all the streusel ingredients using your ﬁ  ngertips, until 
large crumbs form. Set aside.
To make the mufﬁ  ns: Combine the vinegar and soymilk 
in a medium-size bowl; it will curdle and become like buttermilk.
Using a mixer, combine the cream cheese, butter, salt, 
cinnamon, brown sugar, and extract. Stir in the buttermilk mixture. Add the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and baking soda. 
Mix until combined, being careful not to overmix.
Divide the batter among the mufﬁ  n liners. Divide the 
streusel among the mufﬁ  ns, pressing it down a little so 
it sticks to the batter.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the 
center comes out clean. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  16 mufﬁ  nsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 53BONUS RECIPECHOCOLATE PECAN MUFFINS
The addition of cornmeal and wheat germ makes for a heartier, healthier, bakery-style treat and 
all-around happier type of breakfast mufﬁ  n bound to please the most demanding of taste buds.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) peanut oil
3⁄4 cup (165 g) packed light brown sugar
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon (260 g) pumpkin purée
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups (240 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1⁄3 cup (38 g) wheat germ
1⁄2 cup (70 g) cornmeal
4 teaspoons (16 g) baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 cup (44 g) chopped dark chocolate 
1⁄2 cup (50 g) chopped pecansDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Line 
16 standard mufﬁ  n cups with paper liners, or for 14 stan-
dard mufﬁ  ns, lightly coat the mufﬁ  n cups with nonstick 
cooking spray without using paper liners.
In a medium-size bowl, combine the milk, oil, brown sugar, 
pumpkin purée, and vanilla.
In a large bowl, whisk together the ﬂ  our, wheat germ, 
cornmeal, baking powder, and salt.
Stir the wet ingredients into the dry, being careful not 
to overmix. Fold in the chocolate and pecans. 
Divide the batter among the prepared cups. Bake for 
20 to 24 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  14 to 16 mufﬁ  ns
TOP OF THE MUFFIN TO YOU! 
CHOCOLATE GLAZE
For a variation, don’t use chocolate in the mufﬁ  ns 
themselves (unless you are a real chocolate ﬁ  end), 
but top with chocolate glaze instead.
Ingredients:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) nondairy milk
1 cup (176 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chips2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure maple syrup 
Directions:
Scorch the milk in a medium-size saucepan over 
medium-high heat. Remove from the heat. Add the chocolate chips, and stir until melted. Stir in the maple syrup. Let cool for 15 minutes before dipping each mufﬁ  n into the glaze. Let stand at room temperature 
to set.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 54CAPPUCCINO MUFFINS 
Feeling extra indulgent for breakfast? Enjoy these cakelike mufﬁ  ns with a small scoop 
of Coffee Bean Ice Cream (page 223) on top for some extra-caffeinated action: hey, 
the fact that they both contain coffee makes them suitable for breakfast, right? If you’d 
rather save the exuberance for special occasions such as Valentine’s or Mother’s Day 
only, enjoy the mufﬁ  ns by their own lonesome—they’re just as lovely solo!
INGREDIENTS:
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) nondairy milk
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored yogurt
2 teaspoons (10 ml) white balsamic or apple cider vinegar
1⁄2 cup (88 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄4 cup (20 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2 tablespoons (6 g) instant coffee
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking sodaDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 
a standard mufﬁ  n pan with 12 papers liners for larger 
mufﬁ  ns, or 2 pans with 16 liners for smaller mufﬁ  ns.
Combine the milk, oil, yogurt, vinegar, chocolate chips, 
cocoa, sugar, coffee, and salt in a large bowl. 
Combine the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and baking soda in a 
medium-size bowl. Stir the dry ingredients into the wet, being careful not to overmix.
Divide the batter among the mufﬁ  n liners, ﬁ  lling them 
two-thirds of the way for smaller mufﬁ  ns, or to the top 
for larger mufﬁ  ns. Bake for 16 to 20 minutes depend-
ing on size, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let cool on a wire rack. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  12 to 16 mufﬁ  ns
RECIPE NOTE
Make these ultra pretty by dipping the mufﬁ  n tops into 
Chocolate Ganache (page 53) and lightly sift powdered sugar on top.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 56ORANGE CRANBERRY 
CREAM CHEESE MUFFINS
These mufﬁ  ns puff up nicely and have a tart and creamy ﬂ  avor that makes every bite a delight, 
whether enjoying them at breakfast or anytime for a not too sweet, but yummy treat!
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon baking powder
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) orange juice
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) juice from mandarin orange can
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1⁄2 cup (84 g, about 25 segments) mandarin oranges, each 
segment cut into 3 pieces
1 cup (122 g) dried cranberriesDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 
12 standard mufﬁ  n cups with paper liners.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, baking soda, baking 
powder, cornstarch, and salt.
In a medium-size mixing bowl, beat together the sugar, 
cream cheese, orange juice, mandarin orange juice, and vanilla. The cream cheese will not cream; rather, it will separate from the juice. This is normal.
Add the wet ingredients to the dry and mix until there are 
no lumps. Fold in the orange segments and cranberries. Fill the mufﬁ  n cups three-fourths full.
Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted 
into the center comes out clean and the tops are golden. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  12 mufﬁ  ns
RECIPE NOTE
We love the ﬂ  avor of orange and cranberries, but 
raisins, blueberries, and raspberries taste great in these mufﬁ  ns too.DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 57SWEET YEAST BREAD MUFFINS
A cross between doughnuts and sweet bread rolls, these mufﬁ  ns may take 
a bit longer to prepare, but they will keep you chugging all day long. 
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) nondairy milk, heated to lukewarm
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) coffee-ﬂ  avored liqueur or 
nondairy milk, heated to lukewarm
3⁄4 cup (144 g) raw sugar
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, melted
11⁄2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 teaspoon pure almond extract
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup (60 g) sliced almonds
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
3⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 cup (88 g) vegan mini semisweet 
chocolate chips (optional)
1⁄4 cup plus 2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons (101 g) 
almond butter or marzipan (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the milk, liqueur, sugar, melted butter, and yeast 
in a medium-size bowl. Let sit a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Stir in the extract.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, almonds, baking pow-
der, salt, and chocolate chips.
Stir the wet ingredients into the dry using a rubber 
spatula, until combined. Cover and let stand for 1 hour at room temperature. Even though the batter won’t rise much, this allows the yeast to give these mufﬁ  ns their 
wonderful texture and ﬂ  avor.
Lightly coat 10 standard mufﬁ  n cups with cooking spray. 
Stir the batter and scrape 
3⁄4 inch (1.9 cm) of batter into 
each mufﬁ  n cup. The batter will be rather sticky: use a 
cookie dough scoop or a greased spoon to do it. Add 2 teaspoons almond butter in the center of each mufﬁ  n. 
Divide the remaining batter evenly among the mufﬁ  n 
cups, being sure to cover the ﬁ  lling completely.
Lightly coat the top of the mufﬁ  ns with cooking spray. 
Cover with plastic wrap and let stand for 45 minutes to let the ﬂ  avor of the batter develop further. 
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). 
Remove the plastic wrap from the mufﬁ  ns. Bake for 
18 minutes, or until golden brown on top. Remove from the pan and let cool on a wire rack. Store in an airtight container for up to 2 days.
YIELD:  10 mufﬁ  nsDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 59RAISIN CORN BREAKFAST BREAD
Raisins and corn for breakfast we say, there’s just no better way to start your day. 
If you apply a generous layer of nut butter on top of a couple of slices, you’re 
bound to be kept comfortably full until lunchtime rolls around.
INGREDIENTS:
11⁄4 cups (295 ml) plain soymilk, divided
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice 
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup (70 g) cornmeal
1⁄2 cup (100 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2 teaspoons (4.6 g) ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1⁄2 cup (80 g) raisinsDIRECTIONS:
Using a blender, combine 1 cup (235 ml) of the soymilk, 
lemon juice, and cornstarch. Transfer to a large bowl and heat in the microwave for 2 minutes; keep a close eye on it to make sure the mixture doesn’t bubble up too high to make a mess in your microwave. Stir with a fork. Alternatively, use the stove and a medium-size saucepan and cook for about 3 minutes over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened. Let cool for at least 1 hour; add the vanilla, stirring with a fork. This will be your yogurtlike mixture.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Lightly coat an 8 × 4-inch (20 × 10-cm) loaf pan with 
cooking spray. 
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, cornmeal, sugar, cin-
namon, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Stir the remaining  cup (60 ml) soymilk, the oil, and the 
raisins into the yogurtlike mixture. Fold the wet ingredi-ents into the dry, being careful not to overmix.
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted 
into the center comes out clean.
Let cool on a wire rack, still in the pan, for about 
15 minutes before transferring directly to the rack.
YIELD:  10 slicesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 60GO BANANAS BREAD
This recipe yields two standard loaves: one for you, and one to gift. Trust us when we say 
that you would be really bummed out if you gifted one and didn’t have any left for yourself. 
Be sure to use metal or aluminum pans when baking these; glass tends to prevent them from 
rising and baking properly. Also note that the streusel topping sinks down into the bread itself, 
and gives you nice sweet buttery bites deep within the banana goodness, as well as up on top.
FOR THE STREUSEL 
TOPPING (OPTIONAL):
2⁄3 cup (84 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2⁄3 cup (133 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2⁄3 cup (150 g) cold nondairy butter, cut into chunks
FOR THE BANANA BREAD:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 cup (120 g) chopped walnuts or pecans (optional)
1⁄2 cup (80 g) raisins (optional)
1 cup (224 g) nondairy butter, softened
11⁄2 cups (338 g) mashed overripe banana
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extractDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Lightly spray 2 standard 9 × 5-inch (23 × 13-cm) loaf pans 
with cooking spray.
To make the streusel:  Add the ﬂ  our, sugar, and cold but-
ter to a small mixing bowl and, working with your ﬁ  nger-
tips, mix and pinch until coarse crumbs form. Place the mixture in the refrigerator to keep cold until ready to use.
To make the bread:  In a large mixing bowl, combine the 
ﬂ our, salt, cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder, corn-
starch, sugar, nuts, and raisins. In a separate, medium-size mixing bowl, beat together the softened butter, mashed bananas, and vanilla, using an electric mixer. The butter will not cream; rather, it will separate from the ba-nana. That is normal. Add the wet ingredients to the dry and stir to combine, taking care not to overmix.
Fill each loaf pan just under half full. Spread half of the 
streusel mixture evenly in each pan.
Bake for 60 to 70 minutes, or until a knife inserted into 
the center of the crown comes out clean. The bread itself will be dark brown, while the streusel stays bright white.
Allow to cool on a wire rack before cutting and serving.
YIELD:  2 loavesDOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 63ALTELLA ROLLS
Perfect as a brunch item, these rolls will be even tastier if you drizzle them 
with the glaze for the Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones (page 46). Just replace the lemon 
juice with nondairy milk, and the zest with 1⁄4 teaspoon pure almond extract.
INGREDIENTS:
1 recipe Juliette Brioche (page 184) dough, 
prepared and risen once
1 recipe Altella Spread (page 218)DIRECTIONS:
On a lightly ﬂ  oured surface, roll out the dough to approxi-
mately 18 × 12 inches (46 × 30 cm).
Use an offset spatula to spread the Altella evenly onto 
the rolled-out dough all the way to the edges. Cut into 6 equal strips 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide. 
Lightly coat the cups of a jumbo mufﬁ  n tin with nonstick 
cooking spray, or use an 8-inch (20-cm) baking pan, coat-ing it with spray, too.
Roll each cut portion individually and tightly. It is actually 
less messy to proceed this way rather than cutting the whole loaf up at once. Place in the prepared mufﬁ  n cups, 
ﬁ lling side up. Cover and let rise for another hour.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Bake for 
20 minutes, or until the tops are golden brown. Carefully remove from the pan and transfer to a wire rack to cool.
YIELD:  6 large rolls
RECIPE NOTE
Use vegan puff pastry instead of Juliette Brioche 
if you’re pressed for time. Roll out the puff pastry sheet 1 inch (2.5 cm) larger than its original size on a lightly ﬂ  oured surface. Carefully and evenly apply 
Altella spread, and cut into 6 strips. Tightly roll each one up. Place each one in the mufﬁ  n tin. Lightly 
brush with nondairy milk. Bake for 25 minutes, or until golden brown.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 64MAPLE BACON DOUGHNUTS
Bacon with chocolate. Bacon in ice cream. Even bacon cupcakes! It’s everywhere, 
and everyone seems to love (or hate) it. So why not let a vegan version join the band? 
FOR THE DOUGHNUTS:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) any nondairy milk, 
heated to lukewarm, divided
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
6 ounces (170 g) plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored soy yogurt or 
nondairy sour cream
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) pure maple syrup
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon maple extract
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
11⁄2 teaspoons baking powder 
FOR THE MAPLE GLAZE:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) pure maple syrup 
11⁄2 cups (180 g) powdered sugar, sifted 
Vegetable oil, for frying
4 teaspoons (65 g) imitation bacon bitsDIRECTIONS:
To make the doughnuts:  Combine 1⁄4 cup (60 ml) of the 
milk and the yeast in a small bowl. Let sit a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Set aside.
Combine the remaining 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) milk, yogurt, butter, 
maple syrup, and sugar in a small saucepan and heat to just lukewarm over low heat. Do not let the temperature rise higher than lukewarm, or it will kill the yeast. Remove from the heat and stir in both extracts. Combine with the yeast mixture.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, salt, and baking pow-
der. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry. Turn the dough out onto a ﬂ  oured surface, add extra ﬂ  our as needed, 
and knead for about 5 minutes, just until the dough is smooth and not overly sticky. Return the dough to bowl and lightly coat with oil. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 1 hour.
Divide the dough into 8 pieces. Shape into doughnuts by 
creating a hole in the center with your thumb. Place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rise for another 40 minutes.
To make the glaze:  Whisk a small amount of syrup into 
the powdered sugar at a time, until there are no lumps and the glaze is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.
Use a deep fryer, or ﬁ  ll a heavy, deep saucepan with 
3 inches (7.5 cm) of oil. Heat to 350°F (175°C). Fry 2 doughnuts at a time, ﬂ  ipping each over once, until 
golden brown on both sides. 
Immediately drain on paper towels and repeat with the 
remaining doughnuts. Let cool on a wire rack before dunking into the glaze and sprinkling with bacon bits. 
YIELD:  8 large doughnuts
RECIPE NOTE
If the thought of bacon on top of something sweet 
doesn’t appeal, prepare pecans from the Pecan Peach Gobble-r à La Mode (page 241), chop them up, and sprinkle on the doughnuts in lieu of the bacon bits.DOWN-HOME BREAKFASTS 67BAKED CINNAMON SUGAR 
DOUGHNUT HOLES
These are baked in a standard mufﬁ  n pan, making for 12 doughnut “holes” that 
are tender and seriously just as good as their fried counterpart. Cross our hearts.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) nondairy milk, heated to lukewarm, divided
2 teaspoons (8 g) active dry yeast
6 ounces (170 g) vanilla-ﬂ  avored soy yogurt 
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
3⁄4 cup (150 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar, divided
21⁄2 cups (313 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) ground cinnamonDIRECTIONS:
Combine 1⁄4 cup (60 ml) of the milk and the yeast in a 
small bowl. Let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Set aside.
Combine the remaining 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) milk, yogurt, butter, 
and 1⁄4 cup (48 g) of the sugar in a small saucepan. Whisk 
while heating to lukewarm over low heat. Do not let the temperature rise higher than lukewarm, or it will kill the yeast. Remove from the heat and combine with the yeast mixture.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, salt, and baking 
powder. Add the wet ingredients to the dry, stirring with a rubber spatula for a couple of minutes until thoroughly combined. Scrape the sides of the bowl with the spatula and gather the dough in the center of the bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 60 minutes.
Combine the remaining 
1⁄2 cup (96 g) sugar with the 
cinnamon. Set aside.
Coat all the cups in a standard mufﬁ  n tin with cooking 
spray. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon sugar into each cup. Shake the pan so that the sugar coats the bottom and sides of each cup. Using an ice cream scoop, divide the sticky batter among the mufﬁ  n cups, ﬁ  lling 
each about three-fourths full. Evenly top with 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon sugar. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise for another 40 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Bake for 
20 minutes, or until the tops are golden brown. Carefully remove from the pan and transfer to a wire rack to cool.
YIELD:  12 doughnut holesCHAPTER 3
Mean and Mouthwatering 
Mains
New favorites, diner classics, and old-fashioned 
comfort foods—main courses just like grandma used to make (had she been vegan). 
If you ﬁ  nd yourself daydreaming about your favorite childhood dish or have an extremely reluctant 
family member who believes vegans eat only shoots and leaves, depriving themselves of the hearti-est, meatiest things good food is all about, then you’ve stumbled upon the perfect chapter that is 
bound to prove they were wrong all along. 
Bring palatable proof to that persnickety uncle/mother-in-law/brother of yours (or even yourself!) 
that hearty is what it’s all about. Vegans can and will do old-fashioned favorites like baked macaroni and cheese, meatloaf sandwiches, pot roasts, casser oles, and other quint essential co mfort foods—
just in their own (even more ﬂ  avorful and undoubtedly more animal-friendly) way. 
This chapter is guaranteed to provide you with recipes that will not only satisfy even king-size 
appetites, but also leave you licking your ﬁ  ngers for the leftovers. There’s got to be a way to put 
a lockbox on that lasagna, right?!HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 70ROASTED BROCCOTATO SOUP 
WITH BACON-FLAVORED CHICKPEAS 
A creamy and buttery soup with a chickpea garnish 
that you might want to double up on: it’s just that good!
FOR THE ROASTED VEGETABLES:
1 shallot, peeled, left whole
1 pound (454 g) potatoes, peeling optional, halved
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt, divided
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil, divided
12 ounces (340 g) broccoli ﬂ  orets
FOR THE CHICKPEA CROUTONS:
11⁄2 to 2 teaspoons liquid smoke 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce
1 teaspoon chipotle mustard (or any mustard 
mixed with 1⁄4 teaspoon chipotle powder)
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon granulated onion
11⁄2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
11⁄2 teaspoons pure maple syrup
6 cloves garlic, peeled, left whole
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) chickpeas, drained and rinsed
FOR THE SOUP:
4 cups (940 ml) reduced-sodium vegetable broth
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) unsweetened nondairy creamerDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6).
To make the roasted vegetables:  Place the shallot and 
potato halves in a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking pan. Sprinkle with 
1⁄4 teaspoon of the salt. Rub with 1 table-
spoon (15 ml) of the oil, using your hands. Bake for 10 minutes. 
You now have 10 minutes to prepare the broccoli ﬂ  orets 
by placing them in another 9-inch (23-cm) square baking pan. Sprinkle with the remaining 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt. Rub 
with the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) oil.
To make the chickpea croutons:  Combine all the ingredi-
ents in an 8-inch (20-cm) square baking pan. 
Place the broccoli and chickpea dishes in the oven with 
the potatoes. Bake for 10 minutes, checking occasion-ally to make sure nothing burns. Stir well, and ﬂ  ip the 
potatoes onto the other side. Bake for 10 minutes longer, or until most of the liquid is gone from the chickpeas and the broccoli and potatoes are fork-tender. 
To make the soup:  Place the broccoli, potatoes, and half 
of the chickpeas in a large soup pot. Add the broth and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 10 min-utes, uncovered. Using an immersion blender, or transfer-ring to a blender or food processor in batches, blend to the desired consistency. Stir in the creamer and cook for another 2 minutes, until heated through.
Serve sprinkled with the remaining chickpeas.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 71CREAMY MUSHROOM SOUP
Although this soup is great on its own, the main intention behind this recipe was 
to create a stock that can be made ahead of time and frozen, then used in recipes for 
creamy soups. In this book, we call for it in Gramma Jo’s Tater Tot Surprise (page 30), 
but in general, you can use it in any recipe that calls for a creamy condensed-style soup.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
20 ounces (560 g) sliced portobello and 
button mushrooms
1 medium-size yellow onion, diced
2 stalks celery, chopped
2 tablespoons (30 g) minced garlic
2 cups (470 ml) water
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1 cup (66 g) instant mashed potato ﬂ  akes
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Add the oil to a soup pot and heat over medium-low heat. 
Add the mushrooms, onion, celery, and garlic. Toss to coat, cover, and cook for about 15 minutes.
Uncover, add the water and soymilk, and bring to a 
boil. Reduce to a simmer and simmer, uncovered, for 20 minutes.
Remove from the heat and stir in the potato ﬂ  akes a little 
bit at a time until the desired thickness is reached. If using the soup as an ingredient in other recipes, you will want to add all of the ﬂ  akes, to get it to the consistency 
of thick gravy. 
Using an immersion blender, or carefully transferring to 
a tabletop blender, purée until smooth. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
YIELD:  4 cups (1 quart, or 940 ml)
RECIPE NOTE
Other great ways to use this soup: Veganize your 
grandma’s green bean casserole, use it as a sauce over baked tofu, make an easy Stroganoff using this soup poured over boiled pasta and cut up pieces of seitan, and make a quick dinner by adding your favorite vegetables (we like broccoli and carrots) and serving over brown rice.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 72MULLIGATAWNY SOUP
Creamy and ﬁ  lling deliciousness! We’ve actually never tried the nonvegan version of this 
soup, but we don’t need to in order to say that this one can be proud of its tasty self.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
6 ounces (170 g) leeks, white parts only, 
chopped and thoroughly cleaned
8 ounces (227 g) cremini mushrooms, 
left whole if small, halved if slightly larger 
1 large red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and chopped
1 Granny Smith apple, cored and chopped
1⁄4 cup (40 g) chopped shallot
6 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 tablespoon (6 g) medium curry powder 
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
1⁄2 teaspoon cayenne pepper 
2⁄3 cup (122 g) uncooked long-grain white rice 
(or add 2 cups [390 g] cooked long-grain brown 
rice during the last 5 minutes of simmering)
8 ounces (227 g) chicken-style store-bought or 
homemade prepared seitan (page 94), chopped
4 cups (940 ml) chicken-ﬂ  avored broth
6 ounces (170 g) nondairy plain yogurt
1 large lemon, cut into 6 wedges
Freshly ground black pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Combine the oil, leeks, mushrooms, bell pepper, apple, 
shallot, garlic, and salt in a large pot. Cook over medium-high heat for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Add the curry, coriander, cumin, cayenne, and rice. Cook 
for another 2 minutes over medium heat, until fragrant. 
Add the seitan and broth. Bring to a boil. Lower the heat, 
cover, and simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the rice is fully cooked and the veggies are tender. Stir in the yogurt and simmer, uncovered, for 4 minutes longer, until heated through.
Serve each portion with a lemon wedge to be squeezed 
into the soup, and adjust the seasoning with black pepper and extra salt. 
YIELD:  6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 75LENTIL AND BACON POT O’ STEW
We’re not ashamed to admit that we danced for joy upon learning this homey and rustic dish got 
the thumbs-up from the friend of a tester’s son. Better yet? The kid in question isn’t even vegan. 
FOR THE LENTILS:
1 cup (192 g) uncooked green or brown lentils
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) vegetable broth
FOR THE VEGGIES:
1 tablespoon (14 g) nondairy butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive oil
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 shallot, minced
2 carrots, ﬁ  nely diced 
2 stalks celery, ﬁ  nely diced 
2 large leeks, white and light green parts, cut into 
1⁄3-inch (8-mm) chunks, thoroughly cleaned
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground pepper, or to taste
1 recipe Tempeh Bacon (page 84)
1⁄3 cup (20 g) chopped fresh parsleyDIRECTIONS:
To make the lentils:  Rinse the lentils and pick out any 
debris. Combine with the broth in a large pot and bring to a boil. Simmer, uncovered, and check for doneness after 20 minutes. If the lentils aren’t tender enough for your taste, add extra liquid and cook until adequately tender.
To make the veggies:  Place the butter, oil, garlic, 
shallot, carrots, celery, and leeks in a large pot. Cook over medium-high heat for 10 minutes, or until theﬂ avors develop and the veggies are tender. Season 
with salt and pepper.
Stir the lentils into the veggies. Simmer for 5 minutes. 
Crumble the bacon into the stew and heat through. Sprinkle with parsley and extra pepper upon serving.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servings
RECIPE NOTE
For a complete and nourishing meal, consider serving 
this stew along with a slice of Scalloped Potato Pie (page 122).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 76HEARTY CHICKEN NOODLE SOUP
There’s nothing quite as comforting as a nice hot bowl of chicken noodle soup. And it’s even 
more comforting to know that no chickens were harmed in the making of this soup.
SLOW COOKER CORN CHOWDER 
Slow cookers make life so easy. They don’t heat up your house, use less energy 
than the stove, and allow you to throw everything in and forget about it for hours!INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
2 stalks celery, chopped
1 medium carrot, shredded
1 clove garlic, minced
1⁄2 cup (80 g) diced white or yellow onion
4 cups (950 ml) chicken-ﬂ  avored vegetable broth, 
plus more if you want a brothier soup
1 cup (135 g) corn (fresh, frozen, or canned)
1 cup (135 g) peas (fresh, frozen, or canned)
6 ounces (170 g) large-chunk TVP or Soy Curls 
6 ounces (170 g) dry udon, soba, or lo mein noodles
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
In a large pot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the 
celery, carrot, garlic, and onion and sauté until fragrant and translucent, about 5 minutes.
Add the broth and bring to a boil. Add the corn, peas, 
and TVP, and return to a boil. 
Add the noodles and simmer for 7 to 10 minutes, or 
until the noodles are tender. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
YIELD:  4 hearty bowls
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (470 ml) vegetable broth
1 cup (235 ml) soy creamer
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese 
4 cups (544 g) frozen yellow corn kernels
1 pound (454 g) potatoes, peeled and 
cut into bite-size chunks
1 medium-size yellow onion, diced
1 red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried parsley1 teaspoon ground cumin
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
Salt and pepper, to taste
DIRECTIONS:
Throw all the ingredients into the slow cooker, stir, 
and set on High for 3 hours. Dinner is served!
YIELD:  4 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 77ORANGE SEITAN STEW
LOW FAT
Slow-cooking in all its splendor. This thick stew is rich 
and ﬁ  lling, while being surprisingly not high in fat. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1⁄3 cup (53 g) chopped shallot
6 cloves garlic, minced 
4 medium-size carrots, peeled and 
chopped into thin coins
2 large russet potatoes, cubed into 1⁄3-inch (8-mm) pieces
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
2 teaspoons (2.8 g) dried thyme
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes (optional)
1⁄2 teaspoon celery seed
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
1 cup (260 g) chopped roasted red pepper
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) red wine
1 cup (235 ml) fresh orange juice
1 teaspoon packed orange zest
1 tablespoon (15 g) Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon (22 g) regular molasses
2 tablespoons (30 ml) red wine vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce
2 bay leaves
4 Seitan Burgers (page 94), cubed into 
1⁄2-inch (1.3-cm) pieces
Vegetable broth, as neededDIRECTIONS:
Combine the oil, shallot, garlic, carrots, and potatoes in 
a large pot. Cook for 8 minutes over medium-high heat, stirring often. 
Add the cornstarch, thyme, red pepper ﬂ  akes, celery 
seed, pepper, and roasted red pepper. Stir often and cook for another 2 minutes. 
Add the wine, juice, zest, mustard, molasses, vinegar, soy 
sauce, and bay leaves, and bring to a boil; cover, lower the heat, and simmer for 60 minutes, or until the veggies are fork-tender. Stir occasionally. 
Add the seitan and simmer for 20 minutes longer, adding 
a little vegetable broth if the stew is too thick for your taste. Discard the bay leaves before serving.
YIELD:  4 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 78STEW-TATOUILLE
GLUTEN FREE
Celine used to have this all the time as a kid, and loved to add a few squirts of mustard upon eating it, 
bringing an even greater ﬂ  avor to the dish. Feel free to switch to different veggies if you prefer: 
fresh corn, more bell peppers instead of zucchini, summer squash . . . they all make great additions.
INGREDIENTS:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive oil
4 cups (400 g) cubed eggplant
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable broth, plus more as needed
1 medium-size shallot, minced 
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup (160 g) chopped onion
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt, or to taste
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
21⁄4 cups (340 g) diced bell pepper (any color) 
3 cups (360 g) diced zucchini
1 dried bay leaf
2 tablespoons (5 g) chopped fresh basil
1 tablespoon (3 g) chopped fresh thyme
21⁄4 cups (400 g) diced tomatoes
4 medium-size baked potatoes, cut into bite-size pieces
1 recipe TVP Chorizo (page 216, optional)
11⁄2 tablespoons (5 g) fresh parsley
Dijon mustard, to taste (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. Add the 
eggplant and cook for 5 minutes, or until golden brown, stirring occasionally. If the eggplant or other veggies need more moisture, which will depend on how juicy and ripe they are, add the vegetable broth as needed.
Add the shallot, garlic, onion, salt, and pepper. Cook for 
2 minutes. Add the bell pepper and zucchini. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the bay leaf, basil, thyme, tomatoes, and potatoes. 
Cover and simmer for 15 minutes longer. Once the vegetables are tender, add the TVP. 
Spoon into 4 bowls, add a squirt of mustard to each bowl, 
sprinkle with the parsley, and serve.
YIELD:  4 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 81CHOCOLATE STOUT CHILI
LOW FAT
We’ve added bold ﬂ  avors to the quintessen tial bean-based dish. This is so full of good 
protein that you will probably not ﬁ  nd yourself hungry for your next meal (a rare event, 
if you’re anything like us). For a little added creaminess, top with Tofu Sour Cream (page 211). 
INGREDIENTS:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1⁄3 cup (53 g) chopped onion
1 red or green bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced
2 large cloves garlic, minced
1 jalapeño, cored, seeded, and minced
2 tablespoons (10 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tablespoons (16 g) medium chili powder
11⁄2 teaspoons (3.8 g) ground cumin
11⁄2 teaspoons (2 g) dried Mexican oregano
1⁄2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, or to taste
1 tablespoon (12 g) Sucanat 
2 tablespoons (33 g) tomato paste
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) ﬁ  re-roasted or 
regular diced tomatoes, with juice
4 ounces (113 g) ﬁ  re-roasted diced green chiles
12 ounces (355 ml) vegan stout beer 
(if you can ﬁ  nd chocolate stout, more power to you; 
go to www.barnivore.com to check 
the vegan-ocity of your beer)
2 Seitan Burgers (page 94), torn into bite-size pieces 
(the seitan expands a little as it cooks)
2 cans (each 15 ounces, or 425 g) any beans, 
drained and rinsed DIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil in a large pot. Add the onion, bell pepper, 
and garlic. Cook until the veggies just start to get tender, about 4 minutes. Add the jalapeño, seasonings, and Sucanat. Cook for 1 minute. Add the tomato paste, diced tomatoes, chiles, and beer. Bring to a boil. Cook, uncov-ered, over medium heat for 15 minutes.
Add the seitan and beans. Cook for 15 minutes longer, 
until thickened.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 82PANZANELLA SANDWICHES
A sandwich based on the delicious salad made with bread but with the salad . . . in the bread? 
This recipe is made using large bread rolls, hence the 2 tablespoons (13 g) each tapenade and pesto 
per side. If you only ﬁ  nd smaller rolls, consider using 8 of them and only using 1 tablespoon (7 g) 
of each spread per side, and adjust the quantity of other ingredients to ﬁ  t 8 rolls instead of 4.
FOR THE TAPENADE:
1 cup (160 g) olive medley (kalamata, green, etc.), pitted
1 teaspoon capers, drained 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
11⁄2 teaspoons white balsamic vinegar or other mild 
vinegar
Pinch of red pepper ﬂ  akes
1⁄4 cup (15 g) fresh parsley
1 clove garlic, minced
FOR THE SANDWICHES:
4 large fresh and crusty individual artisan breads 
1⁄2 cup (120 g) Spinach Pesto (page 210) 
4 razor-thin slices red onion
4 Beefsteak or large heirloom tomatoes, sliced razor thin 
(choose tomatoes that aren’t overly ripe because 
you don’t want them to soak the bread)
16 thin slices English cucumber
4 leaves fresh basil
1⁄4 cup (25 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213) or 
8 thin slices smoked cheddar Sheese, if available
Freshly ground pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the tapenade:  Combine all the ingredients in a 
food processor and pulse a few times until combined but 
still chunky.
To assemble the sandwiches:  Slice the breads in half. 
Apply 2 tablespoons (13 g) tapenade on one side, 2 table-spoons (15 g) pesto on the other. Top with 1 slice onion, 1 sliced tomato, 4 slices cucumber, and 1 basil leaf. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon (6 g) parmesan or place 2 slices Sheese over the veggies, grind some pepper over all, and top with the other half of bread. Repeat with the remaining sandwiches. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 large sandwichesMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 83THE MONTE CRISTO 
Bringing the best of breakfast (French toast!) to lunch in a yummy, crispy sandwich.
FOR THE SPREAD:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
2 tablespoons (34 g) ketchup
1 tablespoon (15 g) sweet pickle relish
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
FOR THE FRENCH TOAST:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soy or other nondairy milk
1⁄4 cup (31 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄8 teaspoon paprika
1⁄8 teaspoon dried dill
Salt and pepper, to taste
Vegetable oil, for frying
8 slices stale (or ﬁ  rm) sandwich bread
8 slices your favorite vegan deli meat, 
such as Tofurky or Yves
4 slices your favorite vegan cheese or 4 ounces (113 g) 
shredded vegan cheese, such as Daiya
Maple syrup, for dipping (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the spread:  Whisk all the ingredients together 
and keep refrigerated until ready to use.
To make the French toast:  Mix together the milk, ﬂ  our, 
paprika, dill, salt, and pepper in a shallow dish.
In a frying pan or cast-iron skillet, heat about 2 table-
spoons (30 ml) oil over high heat.
Dip a piece of bread into the batter and panfry for 2 to 
3 minutes per side, or until golden. Repeat with the remaining slices, adding oil as needed.
Preheat the broiler or set the toaster oven on broil. 
Schmear all 8 slices of the French toast with the spread. Add 2 slices deli meat to each sandwich, followed by either 1 slice or 1 ounce (28 g) cheese. Top with the other slice of French toast and place in the broiler for about 5 minutes to heat through and melt the cheese. Alterna-tively, you can use a panini press.
Serve hot with the maple syrup for dipping.
YIELD:  4 sandwiches
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
This sandwich tastes great served up 
alongside a nice salad of raw torn kale tossed with olive oil, dried cranberries, pine nuts, and cherry tomatoes cut in half.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 84TEMPEH, PEPPER, AND SPINACH-PESTO 
SANDWICH 
A spin on a traditional BLT, this sandwich is particularly exceptional served alongside 
a generous helping of German Potato Salad (page 168).
FOR THE TEMPEH BACON:
8 ounces (227 g) tempeh, sliced into 16 strips 
(cut in half lengthwise, each half cut into 8 thin strips)
11⁄2 tablespoons (23 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce
2 teaspoons (10 ml) liquid smoke
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
11⁄2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1⁄4 teaspoon chipotle chile powder (optional)
2 cloves garlic, quartered
11⁄2 teaspoons (7.5 g) light brown sugar
FOR THE SANDWICHES:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 cup (60 g) Spinach Pesto (page 210)
8 slices whole-grain sandwich bread, toasted 
2 whole roasted red peppers, patted dry and halved
33⁄4 cups (113 g) fresh baby spinach leaves or 
(75 g) baby arugulaDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
To make the bacon:  Place the tempeh slices in a shallow 
dish. Combine the soy sauce, liquid smoke, mustard, oil, onion, paprika, chile powder, garlic, and brown sugar in a small bowl. Pour on top of the tempeh slices, carefully brushing it all over on both sides. Spread on the prepared baking sheet. Lightly coat the top of the tempeh with cooking spray. 
Bake for 10 minutes, ﬂ  ip over, lightly coat with spray 
again, and bake for 10 minutes longer, or until golden brown. Transfer to a wire rack. (The bacon is at its crispiest right out of the oven.)
To assemble the sandwiches:  Combine the mayonnaise 
and pesto in a small bowl. Apply 1 tablespoon (15 g) on every slice of bread. Place 4 slices of bacon on 4 slices of bread. Top each sandwich with half a roasted red pep-per, 1 scant cup (28 g) spinach or (19 g) arugula, and the remaining slice of bread. 
YIELD:  4 sandwichesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 86SWEET POTATO PO’ BOYS
Now a true Po’ Boy would be a foot long, so these are considered “shorties,” 
and if you decide to use the highly recommended pile of Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw (page 172), 
well, then, you can consider your Po’ Boy “dressed.” As always, a deep fryer works best here, 
but if you don’t have one, a pot ﬁ  lled with about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of oil will work just ﬁ  ne.
INGREDIENTS:
1 large sweet potato
FOR THE FENNEL MARMALADE:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1 bulb fennel, julienned, leaves reserved 
2 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 shallots, thinly sliced
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons (42 g) agave nectar
FOR THE AIOLI:
1⁄3 cup (75 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 teaspoon Old Bay seasoning
1 tablespoon (2 g) chopped fennel leaves 
(reserved from the bulb above)
1 teaspoon minced garlic
Vegetable oil, for frying
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) plain soymilk or other nondairy milk
1⁄2 cup (62 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup (14 g) cornﬂ  akes, crushed
1 teaspoon Old Bay seasoning
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
4 (6-inch, or 15-cm) French rolls
1 recipe Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw 
(page 172, optional but highly recommended)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
Slice the sweet potato into thin rounds, about 
1⁄4 inch 
(6 mm) thick. You can peel them if you choose, but we like ours with the skin on. Spread on the prepared baking sheet.
Bake for 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and allow 
to cool.
To make the fennel marmalade:  While the potatoes are 
cooking, add the olive oil to a pan and heat over low heat. Add the fennel, garlic, shallots, and salt. Slowly cook until very soft and tender, and just beginning to caramelize, about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the agave and toss to coat. Crank up the heat and cook for about 5 more minutes, stirring constantly, until caramelized, sticky, and browned. Remove from the heat and set aside.
To make the aioli:  Whisk all the ingredients together. 
Keep refrigerated until ready to use.
Preheat the oil to 350°F (180°C). Place the milk in a shallow dish. Add the ﬂ  our, cornﬂ  akes, 
Old Bay, and cayenne to a resealable plastic bag and shake to combine. 
Dip 1 sweet potato round into the milk to coat and then 
add it to the bag. Repeat until you have about 5 rounds in the bag. Shake to coat the potatoes with the ﬂ  our 
mixture. Carefully add the coated potatoes to the hot oil and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, ﬂ  ipping halfway through, 
until golden and crispy. Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Repeat until all the potatoes are fried.
Spread a layer of aioli on each half of the French roll. Pile 
one-fourth of the sweet potatoes on the bottom half of the roll, top with one-fourth of the marmalade, and add a heaping pile of the coleslaw. Repeat with the remaining 3 rolls. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 sandwichesMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 89WALDORF SALAD WRAPS
This is what we like to call a treasure hunt salad. With every bite, your mouth ﬁ  nds 
a little treasure! This salad works perfectly to make wraps or even stuff in pitas, but we’ll 
let you in on a little secret. It tastes really good right out of the bowl, too. Find the 
largest, freshest, most pliable tortillas you c an, because they work best for wraps.
FOR THE DRESSING:
1 cup (224 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) orange juice
1 tablespoon (9 g) poppy seeds
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SALAD:
3 hearts (12 ounces, or 340 g) romaine lettuce, chopped
2 medium-size Granny Smith apples, cored and cubed
3 stalks celery, chopped
1 cup (160 g) diced red onion
1 cup (109 g) pecan pieces
1 cup (160 g) raisins
6 large burrito-size tortillas DIRECTIONS:
To make the dressing:  Whisk together all the ingredients 
in a medium-size bowl. Set aside.
To make the salad:  Toss all the ingredients together in 
a large mixing bowl, add the dressing, and toss to coat. Refrigerate until ready to use.
Cut 6 pieces of parchment paper into squares just larger 
than the tortillas. Lay 1 piece of parchment on a ﬂ  at sur-
face. Place a tortilla in the center of the parchment. Place 2 to 3 cups (340 g to 510 g), depending on the size of your tortilla, of prepared salad in the tortilla, spread out across the half of the tor tilla cl osest to y ou. It will seem 
like a lot, but that’s the magic of making a tight deli-style wrap. Using the parchment to help keep the tortilla from tearing, begin to roll it up like a burrito, folding in the edges halfway through. Roll as tightly as possible. Tape the parchment to keep it tightly closed. Use a sharp knife to cut the wrap in half on the bias. Repeat with the remaining 5 tortillas.
YIELD:  6 wraps or a large bowl of salad (about 15 cups 
[2.6 kg])
RECIPE NOTE
Cubed tofu and cubed avocado make a wonderful addition to this salad.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 90COBB SANDWICH
This sandwich is a spin on a classic American salad made famous at the Brown Derby in 
Hollywood in the 1930s. The crumbled tofu stands in for the Roquefort cheese in the original 
dressing, so don’t blend it in, or you’ll miss out on the texture. You can also take a shortcut and 
buy mixed baby greens to stand in for the mixed greens in the recipe. We won’t tell anybody.
FOR THE SPREAD:
6 ounces (170 g) plain soy yogurt
2 tablespoons (30 ml) white balsamic or 
other light-colored vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 g) whole-grain brown mustard
1 teaspoon dried dill
4 ounces (113 g) extra- or super-ﬁ  rm tofu, 
drained, pr essed, and crumbled
FOR THE MIXED GREENS:
4 leaves romaine lettuce, chopped
4 leaves iceberg lettuce, chopped
1 cup (30 g) baby spinach
1 cup (30 g) wild or baby arugula
FOR THE CHICKEN:
4 ounces (113 g) large-chunk TVP or Soy Curls
2 cups (470 ml) boiling water
1 teaspoon Old Bay seasoning
FOR THE SANDWICHES:
4 ciabatta rolls, lightly grilled or toasted
1 large ripe avocado, sliced
1 large ripe tomato, sliced into 8 thin slices
8 slices vegan bacon, 
store-bought or homemade (page 84)DIRECTIONS:
To make the spread:  Whisk together the yogurt, vinegar, 
mustard, and dill until smooth. Fold in the crumbled tofu. Refrigerate until ready to use.
To prepare the greens:  Toss together the greens, and 
set aside.
To make the chicken:  Reconstitute the TVP by placing 
it in a bowl and pouring the boiling water over it. Cover and let sit for 10 minutes. Drain any excess liquid. Sprinkle with the Old Bay, toss to coat, and set aside.
To assemble the sandwiches:  Slather each side of the 
ciabatta roll with the spread. Starting on the bottom place one-fourth of the greens, then pile on one-fourth of the chicken, then one-fourth of the avocado, then 2 slices tomato, then 2 slices bacon. Top with the other half of the bun. Repeat with the remaining 3 rolls, and serve.
YIELD:  4 sandwichesMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 91THE DOUBLE TAKE
It’s a sandwich that uses the chicken as the bread! Inspired by the ultra artery-clogging 
sandwich from the ultra disgusting KFC. Made with our own blend of seven herbs and spices. 
Thanks to Gardein, the realistic chicken part is easy. We like to make 4 little slider-size 
sammies, but you can make 2 large ones instead—just don’t cut the breasts in half.
INGREDIENTS:
4 Gardein chicken breasts (or chicken-style seitan cutlets)
Vegetable oil, for frying
FOR THE FLOUR MIXTURE:
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon dried parsley
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon dried mustard
1⁄4 teaspoon smoked paprika
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon black pepper
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
FOR THE SPECIAL SAUCE:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1 tablespoon (15 g) ketchup
1 tablespoon (15 g) Sriracha
1⁄2 teaspoon dried chives or parsley
4 slices vegan bacon, store-bought or 
homemade (page 84), prepared
1⁄4 cup (56 g) Smoky Pub Cheese (page 213)DIRECTIONS:
Defrost the chicken breasts. Cut each breast in half 
so you have 8 pieces.
Preheat the oil in a deep fryer, or ﬁ  ll a frying pan with 
about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of oil, and heat over high heat to 350°F (180°C). 
To make the ﬂ  our mixture:  Combine the ﬂ  our, parsley, 
garlic powder, onion powder, dried mustard, paprika, salt, and pepper in a shallow dish. Combine the soymilk and lemon juice in a separate small bowl. It will curdle and become like buttermilk.
Dip one chicken piece in the ﬂ  our mixture to lightly coat, 
then dip in the buttermilk mixture, then back into the ﬂ our mixture for a thicker coat.
Carefully place in the oil and fry for 2 to 3 minutes, or 
until golden and crispy. (If you are using the frying pan method, you will need to ﬂ  ip after about 2 minutes and 
repeat on the other side.) Transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining 7 chicken pieces.
To make the sauce:  Whisk ingredients in a small bowl.
Spread a layer of sauce on 1 piece of fried chicken, then 
top with 1 piece of bacon, broken in half, then a schmear of pub cheese, then spread with more sauce. Top it off with another piece of fried chicken. Serve immediately. 
YIELD:  4 sliders or 2 sandwiches
RECIPE NOTE
To make your own chicken-style seitan cutlets, 
try using the recipe for the Slow Cooker Russian Chicken (page 108), but instead of cooking them in the Russian broth in a slow cooker, simply simmer them, covered, for an hour in a pot ﬁ  lled with chicken-
ﬂ avored vegetable broth.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 92TEMPEHITAN BURGERS
These quirky, protein-ﬁ  lled patties contain both tempeh and seitan to join forces 
in keeping your muscles well nourished and your taste buds doing a tap dance. If you want 
them larger, divide the preparation into 4 or 6 instead of 8. In this case, consider baking 
them in a 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4) oven for 15 minutes to make sure they are 
fully cooked. Flip them halfway through, and then panfry them until golden brown.
INGREDIENTS:
8 ounces (227 g) tempeh
1⁄4 cup (64 g) tahini
1⁄4 cup (80 g) orange marmalade 
(preferably not bitter) or mango chutney
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
1 clove garlic, minced
2 teaspoons garam masala
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 cup (72 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable broth
6 tablespoons (47 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, as needed
Vegetable oil, for panfryingDIRECTIONS:
Crumble the tempeh into small pieces and place in a 
large bowl. Stir in the tahini, marmalade, oil, onion, garlic, garam masala, coriander, red pepper ﬂ  akes, and salt.
Stir in the wheat gluten. Add the broth and knead in as 
much all-purpose ﬂ  our as needed just so that the prepa-
ration isn’t overly sticky; it depends on the consistency of both the tahini paste and the marmalade. Let stand for 15 minutes to let the gluten develop.
Divide the mixture into 8 equal portions of approximately 
1⁄4 cup (70 g) each.
Coat a skillet with oil and panfry for 6 minutes on each 
side over medium-low heat, or until golden brown and fully cooked.
YIELD:  8 slider-size burgers
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Toast an Avocado Roll (page 194), 
top it with crunchy coleslaw and cucumber slices tossed with some of the tahini sauce from the Falafel (page 114) recipe, with a little extra lemon juice or seasoned rice vinegar sprinkled on it for extra zing, and crown with 1 or 2 burgers.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 94SEITAN BURGERS 
FOR STEWS AND CHILIS
LOW FAT
You know how some seitan recipes make for a spongy texture once added to stews? 
This one holds up great in any recipe involving a long simmering time. 
INGREDIENTS:
12 ounces (355 ml) vegan beer or vegetable broth 
(go to www.barnivore.com to check 
the vegan-ocity of your beer)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce
1 tablespoon (15 g) whole-grain mustard
1 tablespoon (7 g) granulated onion
1 teaspoon liquid smoke
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
1 tablespoon (21 g) agave nectar
3⁄4 cup (90 g) garbanzo fava bean ﬂ  our 
11⁄2 cups (216 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  ourDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 
a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone bak-ing mat. Have handy an extra baking sheet and an extra piece of parchment or silicone baking mat.
Combine the beer, soy sauce, mustard, onion, liquid 
smoke, nutritional yeast, pepper, and agave in a large bowl. Add the ﬂ  our and wheat gluten, and work the 
dough until perfectly combined, using your hands. Knead directly in the bowl for a couple of minutes. Let rest for 15 minutes to let the gluten develop. 
Divide the dough into 6 burgers using 
1⁄2 cup (140 g) each. 
Shape into balls. Place on the prepared baking sheet and press down gently. Add the extra piece of parchment on top, along with an upside-down extra baking sheet.
Bake for 20 minutes. Carefully remove the top baking 
sheet and parchment, ﬂ  ip the burgers over, and cover 
again with the parchment and baking sheet. Bake for 15 minutes longer, or until golden brown on both sides. Place on a wire rack to cool.
YIELD:  6 burgers
RECIPE NOTE
Give a test run to these seitan burgers by making 
Orange Seitan Stew (page 77) or Chocolate Stout Chili (page 81).MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 95ULTIMATE PATTY MELT
Crispy grilled sourdough, slathered with tangy Garlic Onion Mayo Sauce and smothered 
in sharp Smoky Pub Cheese (page 213). Those greasy spoons have nothing on us! 
FOR THE SAUCE:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
FOR THE PATTIES:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
1 cup (144 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) onion powder
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper
2 tablespoons (1 g) dried chives
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) steak sauce
1⁄4 cup (60 g) ketchup
2 tablespoons (32 g) creamy no-stir peanut butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
Vegetable oil, if panfrying or grilling 
8 slices sourdough bread
Nondairy butter, for toasting 
1 recipe Smoky Pub Cheese (page 213)DIRECTIONS:
To make the sauce:  Whisk together all the ingredients in 
a small bowl and refrigerate until ready to use.
To make the patties:  Reconstitute the TVP in the broth. 
To do this, either place the TVP and broth in a microwave-safe bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 to 6 minutes, or pour the boiling broth over the TVP, cover, and let stand for 10 minutes. The TVP will absorb all of the liquid.
Meanwhile, mix together the wheat gluten, nutritional 
yeast, and dry spices. 
Once the rehydrated TVP is cool enough to handle, com-
bine it with the steak sauce, ketchup, peanut butter, and liquid smoke. Add to the gluten and spice mixture and, using your hands, mix everything together until a sticky dough forms. Allow to sit for about 15 minutes for the gluten to develop.
Form the mixture into 4 patties and cook one of three ways:1. Cover loosely with foil and bake on a baking sheet 
lined with parchment paper or a silicone mat at 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4) for 15 minutes. Flip, re-cover, and bake for 15 minutes longer. 
2. Panfry in oil over medium heat for 5 to 7 minutes per 
side. This preparation makes for a burger with a much crispier outside, while leaving a soft, juicy center.
3. Grill! These patties are hearty and do well on the grill, 
just be sure to oil either the patties or the grill to pre-vent sticking. Grill over a medium-low ﬂ  ame for about 
7 to 10 minutes per side.
To serve:  Spread the bread slices with a little nondairy 
butter and panfry until toasty. Layer bread with mayo, patty, pub cheese, and top bread slice. 
YIELD:  4 sandwichesMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 97SLOPPY JO-NIS
QUICK AND EASY
Weeknight meals made easy, thanks to the use of the versatile TVP and everybody’s favorite 
condiment . . . KETCHUP! You can replace the ketchup with barbecue sauce for a tangy twist.
Note that if using certiﬁ  ed gluten-free ingredients this dish is indeed gluten free.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth 
(Not-Beef broth works best here, but any will do)
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1⁄4 cup (40 g) ﬁ  nely diced onion
1⁄4 cup (40 g) ﬁ  nely diced green bell pepper
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon (15 g) prepared yellow mustard
3⁄4 cup (204 g) ketchup
1 tablespoon (15 g) steak sauce
1 tablespoon (14 g) packed brown sugar (optional)
Salt and pepper, to taste 
4 hamburger bunsDIRECTIONS:
Reconstitute the TVP in the broth. To do this, either place 
the TVP and broth in a microwave-safe bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 to 6 min-utes or pour the boiling broth over the TVP, cover, and let stand for 10 minutes. The TVP will absorb all of the liquid.
In a frying pan, heat the oil over medium-high heat. Add 
the onion and bell pepper. Sauté for about 3 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté for about 2 minutes longer.
Reduce the heat to low and add the reconstituted TVP, 
mustard, ketchup, steak sauce, and brown sugar. Stir to coat, and heat through. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve piled sloppily onto the hamburger buns.
YIELD:  4 servings
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with corn on the cob and 
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn (page 207). Oh, and don’t forget extra napkins—this is the type of meal that requires  them!HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 98HAUTE POCKETS 
You may recognize these ready-in-moments frozen savory pockets from your 
days as a hungry college student. Rejoice, for here is a delicious vegan alternative 
which makes sure there will be no more starving for you, fellow compassionate co-ed.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, softened 
1⁄4 cup (60 g) ketchup
1 tablespoon (15 ml) hot sauce, or to taste
2 large cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon dried thyme
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
2 teaspoons (10 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
4 Ham-ish Saucisses (page 156), cubed small
2 frozen sheets vegan puff pastry, thawed 
for at least 40 minutes prior to rolling out
1 cup (156 g) chopped broccoli ﬂ  orets, steamedDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
In a medium-size microwave-safe bowl, combine the but-
ter, ketchup, hot sauce, garlic, thyme, paprika, soymilk, cornstarch, lemon juice, and salt. Microwave for 2 min-utes, keeping a close eye so that it doesn’t boil over. Add the cubed saucisses to the sauce and set aside.
Roll out the puff pastry to about 2 inches (5 cm) larger 
than its original size on a lightly ﬂ  oured counter. Cut each 
sheet into 6 equal rectangular portions. Place a little under 
1⁄4 cup (55 ml) ﬁ  lling in the center of 6 of them. Top 
with 21⁄2 tablespoons (26 g) broccoli. Cover with a second 
piece of puff pastry, using the tines of a fork to seal. Cut a couple of air vents on top of the pastry for ventilation purposes. Repeat with the remaining pastries.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until golden brown. Let cool on 
a wire rack.
YIELD:  6 pastries
RECIPE NOTE
This homemade, preservative-free, Buffalo-style version 
yields pastries large and ﬁ  lling enough to cover for a 
meal, especially when served with a portion of any deli-style salad (try the ﬁ  lling for Waldorf Salad Wraps 
[page 89]) or a piping hot bowl of soup (such as Pesto Pea-damame [page 150]).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 100COLCANNON PATTIES
Colcannon is a traditional and affordable Irish dish composed mainly of mashed 
potatoes and kale or cabbage. These all-in-one patties combine all the colcannon ﬂ  avors 
in one fell swoop and are meant to be enjoyed alongside Irish Soda Bread (page 190) 
slathered with nondairy butter and maybe Marmite (if you like it), pickles, and a cold brew.
FOR THE POTATOES:
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
3 medium-size russet potatoes (658 g), 
peeling optional, sliced 1⁄4 inch (6 mm) thick
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 teaspoons granulated onion
1 cup (235 ml) vegan stout beer 
(go to www.barnivore.com to check 
the vegan-ocity of your beer)
FOR THE CABBAGE:
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
14 ounces (397 g) shredded coleslaw 
3 cloves garlic, minced 
2 teaspoons granulated onion
Salt and pepper, to taste
1⁄2 cup (40 g) bread crumbs
1⁄4 cup (20 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216)
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
Vegetable oil, for panfryingDIRECTIONS:
To make the potatoes:  Place the butter, potatoes, salt, 
and onion in a pot. Brown for 8 minutes over medium heat, stirring often. Add the beer, cover, and bring to a boil. Lower the heat to medium and cook for 20 minutes, or until tender enough to mash. Transfer to a large bowl. 
To make the cabbage:  Using the same pot, combine the 
butter, coleslaw, garlic, and onion. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Cook over medium heat until tender, about 8 minutes.
Place the cabbage, potatoes, and bread crumbs in a food 
processor and pulse a few times to combine. Depending on the size of your food pr ocessor, you might want to do 
this in several batches. Stir in the bacon bits, along with as much ﬂ  our as needed to get the preparation to bind. 
Chill for 1 hour.
Shape the mixture into 8 burgers using 
1⁄2 cup (130 g) each. 
Coat a skillet with oil, and fry the burgers over medium 
heat for about 6 minutes on each side. Do not overcrowd the skillet: Cook 2 to 4 burgers at a time, depending on the size of the skillet.
YIELD:  8 burgersMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 101BONUS RECIPEI WOULD DO ANYTHING 
FOR (MEAT)LOAF
Drop the idea that your tender meatloaf drenched in good gravy days are 
over, because it’s all here at your ﬁ  ngertips. Reach out and touch faith! 
Serve with Baked Asparagus with Mushroom Sauce (page 166).
INGREDIENTS:
8 ounces (227 g) ﬁ  rm tofu, crumbled and 
drained of extra liquid in a ﬁ  ne-mesh sieve
2 carrots, ﬁ  nely grated
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon (7 g) granulated onion
2 teaspoons (1.4 g) dried basil
1⁄2 to 1 teaspoon dried thyme, or to taste
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground pepper, or to taste
1⁄2 cup (72 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (25 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213) 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) vegetable broth
1 to 11⁄2 cups (80 to 120 g) panko or 
regular bread crumbs, as neededDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Have 
an 8 × 4-inch (20 × 10-cm) loaf pan and a piece of parch-
ment paper handy.
In a large bowl, combine the tofu, carrots, garlic, onion, 
basil, thyme, oregano, salt, and pepper by mashing together with your hands. Add the wheat gluten and parmesan, still mashing with your hands. Add the broth and mash to combine. Add the bread crumbs, a 
1⁄2 cup 
(40 g) at a time, until the mixture holds together well. 
Shape into an approximately 7 × 3-inch (18 × 8-cm) loaf. 
Place on the parchment paper. Fold the paper over the loaf. Place the wrapped loaf in the pan, folded side down.
Bake for 1 hour. Let stand for 30 minutes before unfolding 
from the parchment, slicing, and placing on a wire rack. 
YIELD:  4 servings
HEARTY MEATLOAF SANDWICH
Give those leftovers some love by turning them into 
one fabulous sandwich. Repeat as necessary!
Directions:
Cut 2 thick slices of crusty bread such as bruschetta or sourdough, toast them up, and rub a clove of garlic on each side. 
Brown two 
1⁄2-inch (1.27-cm) thick slices of meatloaf in 
2 teaspoons olive oil. 
Coat the bread with 2 teaspoons vegan mayo on one 
side, and 2 teaspoons Dijon mustard on the other. Place the slices of meatloaf between the slices.
This is delicious with heirloom tomato slices, baby 
spinach, a couple leaves of fresh basil, dandelion or any leafy green, and red onion, too. MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 103BAKED BBQ BUNS
If you prefer your sandwiches to be hot (just like you!), try these 
tasty buns that come packed with a spicy and meaty ﬁ  lling. 
FOR THE DOUGH:
14 ounces (414 ml) light coconut milk, heated to lukewarm
2 teaspoons (8 g) active dry yeast
1 tablespoon (14 g) packed light brown sugar
2 cups (240 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  our
2 cups (240 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (9 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
FOR THE FILLING:
2 teaspoons (10 ml) peanut oil
1⁄2 cup (80 g) ﬁ  nely chopped onion
2 cloves garlic, minced
10 ounces (283 g) orange marmalade 
(preferably not bitter)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) apple cider vinegar
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (170 g) brown sauce, such as HP
1 tablespoon (15 ml) blended chipotle and adobo sauce
8 ounces (227 g) tomato sauce
Salt, to taste
1 pound (454 g) any seitan steak, cubed in bite-size pieces
FOR THE BUN WASH:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) boiling water
1⁄4 cup (55 g) baking soda
8 teaspoons (24 g) sesame seedsDIRECTIONS:
To make the dough:  Combine the milk, yeast, and brown 
sugar in a large bowl. Let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
Stir in the ﬂ  ours, wheat gluten, and salt. Turn out onto a 
lightly ﬂ  oured surface to knead until the dough is smooth 
and pliable, about 8 minutes. Place in a lightly oiled large bowl, cover with a lid or plastic wrap, and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Heat the oil in a medium-size sauce-
pan. Add the chopped onion and garlic, and cook over medium heat for 2 minutes. Add all remaining ingredients except the seitan. Bring to a boil. Lower the heat and sim-mer for 30 minutes. Adjust the seasoning, if needed. Add the seitan and simmer for 10 minutes longer, or until the sauce thickens up. Set aside.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and divide into 8 equal portions. 
Roll out each portion into a 7-inch (18-cm) square. Place 
1⁄2 cup (120 g) of the BBQ ﬁ  lling in the center of each por-
tion. Carefully lift all corners of the dough and place them on top of the ﬁ  lling, pinching a little to seal (the dough 
should cooperate here). Carefully transfer buns to baking sheets lined with parchment paper or silicone baking mats and let rest for about 15 minutes while you preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). 
Meanwhile, to make the bun wash:  Combine the water 
and baking soda in a medium-size bowl. Lightly brush each bun with the preparation and sprinkle 1 teaspoon sesame seeds on top. 
Bake for 18 minutes, or until golden brown. Transfer to 
a wire rack until ready to serve. 
YIELD:  8 bunsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 104BARBECUE RIBS
Yes! Even vegans can enjoy a big ol’ rack of barbecue ribs. Wow the 
skeptics with these remarkably realistic ribs complete with bones!
INGREDIENTS:
3 cups (432 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
2 tablespoons (16 g) onion powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1⁄2 teaspoon black pepper
2 cups (470 ml) water
21⁄2 cups (580 ml) Whiskey Barbecue Sauce (page 210) or 
store-bought barbecue sauce, divided
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) steak sauce
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
2 tablespoons (30 ml) liquid smoke
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
6 bones (see note)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line a 
9 × 13-inch (23 × 33-cm) baking pan with foil or parch-
ment paper.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the wheat gluten, ﬂ  our, 
nutritional yeast, onion powder, garlic powder, paprika, salt, and pepper.
In a separate bowl, combine the water, 
1⁄2 cup (118 ml) of 
the barbecue sauce, steak sauce, soy sauce, liquid smoke, and oil. Add the wet ingredients to the dry and knead for 5 minutes. Let the mixture rest for 20 minutes to allow the gluten to develop.
Shape the mixture into a large rectangle, to ﬁ  t in the pan, 
with at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space around the edges. Push the bones through the mixture, at equal distances from each other.
Pour 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) of the remaining barbecue sauce 
into the bottom of the baking pan. Place the rack of ribs in the pan. Spread 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) of the remaining barbe-
cue sauce over the top. Cover the pan tightly with foil and bake for 90 minutes.
You can enjoy these as is, brushed with the remaining 
1⁄2 cup (118 ml) barbecue sauce and sliced apart, or refrig-
erate for later use. To reheat, ﬁ  re up the grill to give the 
ribs an extra smoky ﬂ  avor and grill marks. Brush with the 
remaining 1⁄2 cup (118 ml) barbecue sauce while grilling, 
and slice apart before serving.
YIELD:  6 servingsRECIPE NOTE
Disposable bamboo chopsticks or even Popsicle sticks 
work wonders as “bones” here, but if you want to kick it up a notch, try food-grade cedar cut into 
1⁄2 × 6-inch 
(1.3 × 15-cm) bones, being sure to sand down any rough 
edges. Whichever you choose, start by soaking them in a mixture of 2 cups (470 ml) warm water mixed with 2 tablespoons (30 ml) liquid smoke to add some smoky ﬂ avor to the ribs. For an edible set of bones, try taro root. 
Although this method will yield edible bones, they will be more ﬂ  imsy after cooking, thus requiring a fork and knife 
for eating.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 105SWEET AND SOUR MEATBALLS
These balls work well in many applications. Simply serve them alone as appetizers. 
Double the sauce recipe, and serve them over rice or noodles. Make lettuce wraps with rice 
noodles and balls. Even try them in a Vietnamese-style sandwich by adding 4 or 5 balls to 
a hollowed-out baguette dressed with pickled carrots, cucumber, cilantro, and vegan mayo.
FOR THE SAUCE:
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) pineapple juice
2 tablespoons (30 ml) rice wine vinegar
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
2 tablespoons (34 g) ketchup
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes (optional)
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch dissolved in 1⁄4 cup (60 ml) 
water to make a slurry
FOR THE MEATBALLS:
2 cups (192 g) TVP granules
13⁄4 cups (415 ml) vegetable broth
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil, plus more for frying
1 medium-size yellow onion, ﬁ  nely diced
2 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 cup (72 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (15 ml) tamari or soy sauce
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly cracked black pepper
1⁄2 teaspoon oregano
1⁄2 teaspoon chili powder
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch dissolved in 1⁄2 cup (120 ml) 
vegetable broth to make a slurryDIRECTIONS:
To make the sauce:  Place the juice, vinegar, sugar, 
ketchup, soy sauce, salt, and pepper ﬂ  akes into a pot 
and bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer and simmer for 5 to 10 minutes. Stir in the slurry and remove from the heat. Set aside, or keep warm over very low heat until the meatballs are ready.
To make the meatballs:  Reconstitute the TVP in the 
broth. To do this, either place the TVP and broth in a microwave-safe bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 to 6 minutes or pour the boiling broth over the TVP, cover, and let stand for 10 minutes. The TVP will absorb all of the liquid.
In a skillet, heat the 2 tablespoons (30 ml) oil and sauté 
the onion and garlic until translucent and fragrant, about 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and mix in the wheat gluten, tamari, the spices, and the cornstarch slurry. Let sit for about 15 minutes to let the gluten develop. 
With your hands, form the dough into 20 balls about 
1
1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) in diameter. Use a lot of pressure 
when forming the balls so they won’t fall apart. 
Heat a small amount of the remaining oil in a skillet over 
medium-high heat and lightly fry the meatballs, gently rolling them around in the pan to brown all sides. Transfer the meatballs to the sauce and gently toss to coat.
YIELD:  20 meatballsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 106POLISH SAUSAGE
For a true Polish sausage experience, slice your sausage in half lengthwise, panfry or grill until 
crispy and hot, then place in between 2 slices of strong rye bread schmeared with mustard
 and topped with diced onion and a dill pickle spear. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
1 cup (144 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup (60 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (12 g) salt
1⁄2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
11⁄2 teaspoons evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄2 teaspoon dried thyme
1⁄2 teaspoon ground mustard 
1⁄2 teaspoon dried marjoram
1⁄4 teaspoon dried basil
1⁄4 teaspoon garlic powder
1 cup (235 ml) water
2 tablespoons (30 ml) vegetable oil
1⁄2 teaspoon liquid smokeDIRECTIONS:
Reconstitute the TVP in the broth. To do this, either place 
the TVP and broth in a microwave-safe bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 to 6 min-utes or pour the boiling broth over the TVP, cover, and let stand for 10 minutes. The TVP will absorb all of the liquid. Let sit until cool enough to handle.
In a food processor, place the ﬂ  ours and seasonings. 
Process to combine.
Once the TVP mixture has cooled, add to the ﬂ  our 
mixture in the processor. Process to combine.
Slowly add the water, oil, and liquid smoke, while the 
processor is running, until a dough ball forms. Let rest for 20 minutes to allow the gluten to develop.
Divide the dough into 6 to 8 pieces and form into a sau-
sage shape. Wrap tightly in either foil or parchment, and cook one of three ways:
1. In the oven: Seam side down on a baking sheet at 
350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4) for 20 minutes, ﬂ  ip seam 
side up and cook for 20 minutes longer, or until ﬁ  rm.
2. On the barbecue: Place over a low heat section of the 
grill and cook for about 45 minutes, rotating often.
3. Steam: Place in a steamer (works best with foil) and 
steam for 35 to 40 minutes, or until ﬁ  rm.
YIELD:  6 to 8 sausages
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
We love serving these tasty sausages 
with sautéed kale and baked beans, as shown. HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 108SLOW COOKER 
RUSSIAN CHICKEN 
This rich and ﬁ  lling dish boasts the creamy and tangy ﬂ  avors of Russian dressing, usually 
reserved for salads. It tastes great over rice with lots of the remaining broth ladled on top. 
FOR THE RUSSIAN BROTH:
2 cups (470 ml) vegetable broth
1 cup (272 g) ketchup
1 cup (224 g) vegan mayonnaise 
(Vegenaise is recommended here)
2 tablespoons (30 g) Dijon mustard
2 tablespoons (30 g) horseradish
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
1 teaspoon celery seed
2 tablespoons (30 g) pickle relish
1 tablespoon (16 g) capers
1⁄2 cup (80 g) ﬁ  nely diced white onion
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE CHICKEN:
2 cups (288 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
3 tablespoons (24 g) cornstarch
1 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon onion powder
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground black pepper
11⁄4 cups (295 ml) water
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smokeDIRECTIONS:
To make the Russian broth:  In a medium-size bowl, 
blend together the vegetable broth, ketchup, mayon-naise, mustard, horseradish, garlic, and celery seed until smooth. Stir in the relish, capers, and onion. Season with salt and pepper. Pour into the bottom of your slow cooker.
To make the chicken:  In a medium-size bowl, combine 
the wheat gluten, cornstarch, paprika, onion powder, garlic powder, salt, and pepper.
In a separate small bowl, mix together the water, soy 
sauce, oil, and liquid smoke. Add the wet ingredients to the dry and knead together until well incorporated. The dough will be very stiff, but very elastic and stringy. Cover and let rest for 20 minutes to let the gluten develop.
Divide the dough into 6 equal pieces and form into un-
evenly shaped cutlets. Press them as ﬂ  at as possible (this 
is difﬁ  cult due to the elasticity of the dough, so just do 
your best). Place in a single layer in the broth, cover, and set the slow cooker on High for 3 hours.
Serve over a bed of steamed rice, with the broth from 
the slow cooker ladled over the top.
YIELD:  6 servings
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with steamed broccoli ﬂ  orets, 
tossed with a little olive oil, whole roasted garlic cloves, and a sprinkle of sea salt.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 109CHICK’ N’ WAFFLES PARTY
Here’s a meal that would make Paula Deen proud! Combining the savory crispness of 
the wafﬂ  es with the meaty goodness of the chicken and the richness of either one of the 
sauces makes for a perfectly decadent triple threat that will satisfy the hungriest among us. 
INGREDIANTS:
1 recipe fried chicken from The Double Take (page 91) or
1 recipe Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak (page 32)
1 cup (235 ml) Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212) or 
White Sausage Gravy (page 33) 
FOR THE WAFFLES:
2 cups (470 ml) unsweetened soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) white balsamic vinegar
6 tablespoons (84 g) nondairy butter, melted
Few grinds salt and pepper, to taste
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking sodaDIRECTIONS:
Prepare your friend chicken and desired sauce and 
set aside.
To make the wafﬂ  es: Combine the soymilk and vinegar; 
it will curdle and become like buttermilk. Let stand for 2 minutes. Add the butter, salt, and pepper to the but-termilk mixture. Add the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and baking 
soda and stir until just combined. Following the manu-facturer’s instructions, coat the wafﬂ  e iron with cooking 
spray in between each wafﬂ  e, when the machine has 
been sufﬁ  ciently preheated. Add about 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) 
batter per wafﬂ  e in a Belgian-style wafﬂ  e iron, 1⁄2 cup 
(120 ml) per standard wafﬂ  e iron. For extra crispness, 
toast the wafﬂ  es before enjoying. 
Place 2 pieces of fried chicken on top of 1 Belgian wafﬂ  e, 
or 1 piece per standard wafﬂ  e. Top with as much sauce 
as desired.
YIELD:  4 servings (4 Belgian wafﬂ  es or 6 to 8 standard 
wafﬂ es)
RECIPE NOTE
This unusual, soul food–type of dish is often served 
simply with (nondairy) butter and pure maple syrup. Consider trying this version instead of using the sauce or gravy.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 111JALAPEÑO HOT DOGS
These sausages have TVP in them, to really give them those toothy bits you 
might remember from your bratwurst-eating days. With or without the optional 
cheese ﬁ  lling, they taste yummy topped with diced onion and nacho cheese sauce.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
1 teaspoon liquid smoke
1 cup (144 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
12 slices jarred jalapeños, diced, or to taste
2 tablespoons (30 ml) juice from the jar of jalapeños
1⁄4 cup (60 g) nondairy cream cheese
2 tablespoons (36 g) white or yellow miso
Salt and pepper, to taste
1⁄2 cup (56 g) shredded vegan cheese, 
such as Daiya (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5).
Reconstitute the TVP by mixing together the TVP, veg-
etable broth, and liquid smoke in a microwave-safe bowl, covering tightly with plastic wrap, and microwaving on High for 5 to 6 minutes. Alternatively, bring the vegetable broth to a boil, pour over the TVP mixed with the liquid smoke, stir, cover, and let sit for 10 minutes. Let the TVP rest until cool enough to handle.
Transfer the reconstituted TVP to a mixing bowl, and add 
the wheat gluten, paprika, onion powder, nutritional yeast, jalapeños, jalapeño juice, cream cheese, salt, and pepper. Using your hands, knead everything together until very well incorporated and uniform. Divide into 8 equal pieces. Let rest for 20 minutes to allow the gluten to develop.
Place a sheet of foil, about 12 × 6 inches (30 cm × 15 cm), 
on the counter. Place 1 piece of dough in the center of the foil and ﬂ  atten into an oblong shape. Place about 
1 tablespoon (7 g) of the cheese in the center of the dough and wrap the dough around the cheese to form a hot dog shape. (Or you can omit the cheese and just form into a hot dog shape.) Roll the foil around the sausage and tightly twist the ends to form a casing. Repeat with the remaining 7 pieces of dough.
Bake the hot dogs, seam side down on a baking sheet, for 
30 minutes. Let rest until cool enough to handle before unwrapping.
YIELD:  8 sausages
RECIPE NOTE
Turn these hot dogs into pigs in a blanket, taquito 
style! Put a thin layer of nacho cheese sauce or salsa verde on 8 corn tortillas. Tightly wrap each sausage into the tortilla, closing it with a toothpick. Follow the instructions in Chorizo Flautas (page 164) to fry or bake. Dip into more nacho cheese sauce or salsa verde, store-bought or homemade (page 206), and serve.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 112PIGGIES IN A BLANKET
For a weeknight meal in minutes, you can make these entirely with store-bought ingredients. 
If you have a bit more time on your hands, you can make most of the ingredients from scratch. 
Semi-homemade or totally homemade, these little piggies are fun and tasty! 
INGREDIENTS:
Four 5-inch (12.5-cm) square vegan puff pastry pieces, 
thawed according to package directions
1⁄4 cup (56 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
8 slices your favorite vegan cheese
8 slices vegan bacon, 
store-bought or homemade (page 84)
8 vegan hot dogs, 
store-bought or homemade (page 157)
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, meltedDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
Cut each pastry square on the diagonal to make 8 
triangles. Spread each triangle with mayonnaise, then lay down a slice of cheese. Lay the bacon along the side of the hot dog. Starting at one corner, roll the hot dog and bacon up in the triangle of puff pastry. Secure with a toothpick. Repeat with the remaining 7 triangles.
Place all 8 piggies on the prepared baking sheet. Brush 
with the melted butter. Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, or until golden and crispy.
YIELD:  8 piggies
RECIPE NOTE
Instead of store-bought hot dogs, try making the Slow 
Cooker Cocktail Weenies (page 157), sauce and all—but as full-size hot dogs—then use those! Mmmm, saucy piggies!MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 113SESAME UDON STIR-FRY
QUICK AND EASY
This dish is perfect for quick weeknight dinners, and makes enough for leftovers so 
you can pack up easy lunches the rest of the week. Plus, it tastes great hot or cold.
INGREDIENTS:
1 package (16 ounces, or 454 g) udon noodles, 
prepared according to package directions
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) sesame oil (not toasted)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut or other vegetable oil
1 red bell pepper, seeded, cored, and diced
1⁄2 cup (80 g) ﬁ  nely diced red onion
1⁄2 cup (65 g) cashews (raw or roasted is ﬁ  ne)
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 bunch (8 ounces, or 227 g) bok choy, roughly chopped
1 cup (136 g) yellow corn
1 cup (134 g) green peas
8 ounces (227 g) sugar snap peas
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
1 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes (optional)
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
When the noodles are done cooking, drain and return to 
the pot. Add the sesame oil and toss to coat. Set aside.
In a large wok, heat the peanut oil over medium-high 
heat. Add the bell pepper, onion, and cashews. Cook for about 3 minutes, tossing regularly. Add the garlic, bok choy, corn, peas, and snap peas and continue to cook for about 5 more minutes, tossing regularly, until the bok choy is wilted and all the vegetables are cooked, but still bright and crisp.
Add the soy sauce and red pepper ﬂ  akes; toss to coat. 
Add the udon noodles and toss to combine. Continue to cook for about 3 more minutes, tossing constantly. Sea-son with salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot or cold.
YIELD:  8 main dish servings
RECIPE NOTE
Add a punch of protein by throwing in some cubed 
super ﬁ  rm tofu, soy curls, or sliced seitan into the mix 
when you add the vegetables.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 114FALAFEL AND TAHINI SAUCE
You can eat them as is or ﬁ  ll half a pita bread with slices of tomato and cucumber, 
a small handful lettuce, and as many falafel as will ﬁ  t, and then top with sauce.
FOR THE SAUCE:
1⁄4 cup (64 g) tahini
Juice of 1 lemon (about 3 tablespoons [45 ml])
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
1 clove garlic, minced
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
FOR THE FALAFEL:
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) chickpeas, drained and rinsed
Juice of 1 small lemon (about 3 tablespoons [45 ml])
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1 teaspoon ground cumin
2 teaspoons (4 g) ground coriander
2 teaspoons (1.2 g) dried cilantro
1⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
6 tablespoons (30 g) panko bread crumbs
2 tablespoons (18 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (16 g) tahini
1 small roasted red pepper, chopped
Vegetable oil, for fryingDIRECTIONS:
To make the sauce:  Using a blender, combine all the in-
gredients. Heat over medium-high heat in a medium-size saucepan, whisking constantly, until slightly thickened, about 3 minutes. Set aside. 
To make the falafel:  Using a food pr ocessor, pulse the 
chickpeas a few times just until none are left whole. Add the remaining ingredients and pulse until combined: you want the batter to hold together when pinched, but not be completely smooth because you want some texture left. Gather 2 generously packed tablespoons (40 g) per falafel, and shape into a ball. You will get 10 falafel in all.
Use a deep fryer, or ﬁ  ll a heavy, deep saucepan with 
3 inches (7.5 cm) of oil. Heat to 350°F (180°C). Do not overcrowd! Fry the falafel in batches until golden brown, ﬂ ipping them once, about 2 minutes. Remove from the oil 
with a heat-proof slotted spoon. Drain on paper towels. Repeat with the remaining falafel.
YIELD:  10 falafel, 2 to 4 servings, with 1
1⁄2 cups 
(455 ml) sauce
RECIPE NOTE
If you’re not fond of deep-frying foods, try baking these instead: Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly coat the falafel with cooking spray. Bake for 10 minutes, covered with foil. Remove the foil and bake for another 10 minutes, or until the falafel are golden brown and ﬁ  rm.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 116BBQ SLAW TACOS
Sweet and smoky ﬂ  avors combine to make these unusual tacos 
reminiscent of barbecue pulled pork and slaw. Don’t mind if we do.
FOR THE SLAW:
1 cup (245 g) sweet pickle relish 
6 tablespoons (96 g) natural crunchy peanut butter
1 tablespoon (8 g) capers
2 tablespoons (30 ml) brine from capers
Pinch of red pepper ﬂ  akes
1 tablespoon (15 g) stone-ground mustard
10 ounces (283 g) shredded coleslaw
FOR THE FILLING:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1 pound (454 g) store-bought vegan 
chicken-style strips or Chi-fu (recipe below)
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) Whiskey Barbecue Sauce (page 210; 
substitute vegetable broth for whiskey, if desired)
8 ﬂ our tortillasDIRECTIONS:
To make the slaw:  In a large bowl, combine the relish, 
peanut butter, capers, brine, red pepper ﬂ  akes, and 
mustard until emulsiﬁ  ed. Add the coleslaw and toss to 
combine. The salad will look dry, but as the slaw chills it will release moisture. Cover and chill for 2 hours. 
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Heat the oil in a large skillet. Add the 
chicken strips and sauté until light golden brown, about 8 minutes. Remove from the heat to add the barbecue sauce, to avoid splatters. Cook for 2 minutes longer, until heated through. Set aside.
Grab a tortilla, add a scoop of slaw, and top with the 
ﬁ lling. Repeat with the remaining tortillas, and serve.
YIELD:  8 servings
BONUS RECIPE
HOMEADE CHI-FU!
If you’d rather go homemade then storebought, try this 
fabulous recipe for tofu chicken. It’s super simple!
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1 pound (454 g) super-ﬁ  rm tofu, torn into 
bite-size pieces
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 tablespoon (8 g) nutritional yeast
Directions:
In a large skillet, heat the oil and sauté the tofu over 
medium-high heat for 5 minutes. Add the salt and nutritional yeast, and cook for 5 minutes longer, or until browned.
Yield:  1 pound (454 g)MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 117CRISPY BURRITOS CON CARNE
These burritos are reminiscent of the ones that can be bought from the 
Mexican food carts and trucks here in Southern California. No beans! No rice! 
Just meaty, gooey goodness that goes great with some guacamole for dipping.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 teaspoon evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2 tablespoons (14 g) paprika
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon chili powder
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon chipotle chile powder, or to taste
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
6 to 8 slices jarred jalapeños, ﬁ  nely diced
1 medium-size yellow onion, ﬁ  nely diced
1 cup (235 ml) water or vegetable broth
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) canola oil
1 cup (240 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
4 burrito-size ﬂ  our tortillas
Vegetable oil, for fryingDIRECTIONS:
In a microwave-safe bowl, mix together the TVP, sugar, 
spices, jalapeño peppers, and onion. Stir in the water and canola oil. Cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 minutes. Alternatively, sauté the onions in a little canola oil until translucent, 3 to 5 minutes, and then add the TVP, sugar, spices, and jalapeño peppers. Bring the water to a boil. Pour over the mixture, cover tightly, and let sit for 10 minutes.
Mix in the sour cream and nutritional yeast.Divide the mixture evenly among the 4 tortillas and roll 
by ﬁ rst tucking in the ends, then rolling up.
Heat about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of vegetable oil in a cast-iron 
skillet or frying pan over high heat. Place 1 burrito, seam side down, in the oil and fry for 10 to 20 seconds, until golden and crispy, then ﬂ  ip and repeat on the other side. 
Place on a paper towel lined–plate to absorb the excess oil. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 burritos
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
We beg you to please  eat a side of leafy 
greens with these! The Kale with a Kick (page 172) is an excellent choice.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 118TACO SALAD
Ever since Joni was wee, she loved the salad that came in a bowl you could eat! 
Don’t want to bother with tortilla bowls? No worries . . . throw a handful of 
tortilla chips in the bottom of a regular bowl before tossing in your salad!
FOR THE DRESSING:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1 ripe avocado
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) fresh lime juice
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper, or to taste
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SALAD:
1⁄2 head green cabbage, shredded
1 recipe TVP Chorizo (page 216)
1 can (14 ounces, or 392 g) pinto or black beans, 
drained and rinsed
1⁄2 cup (68 g) corn kernels
1⁄2 cup (130 g) prepared salsa
1 ripe avocado, cubedDIRECTIONS:
To make the dressing:  Add all of the ingredients to a 
blender and blend until smooth.
To make the salad:  In a large mixing bowl, toss together 
all of the ingredients. Divide the salad among 4 bowls. Drizzle with the dressing and serve.
YIELD:  4 servings
RECIPE NOTE
Make your own tortilla bowls by using 2 small stainless 
steel nesting bowls. Preheat the oven to 450°F (230°C, or gas mark 8). Place the smaller of the 2 nesting bowls upside down on a baking sheet. Spray a burrito-size ﬂ  our 
tortilla liberally on both sides with cooking spray. Drape the tortilla over the smaller bowl and then place the larger bowl over the tortilla to keep its shape. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and carefully remove the top bowl. Allow the bowl to cool while still on the smaller bowl to stiffen up. MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 119BLACK AND BRAISED TOFU
Here we use an old-school cooking technique (originally intended for tough 
cuts of meat) to create a spicy and savory tofu steak. After cooking, spoon the 
braising veggies on top of the steaks as a garnish; they hold lots of yummy ﬂ  avor. 
As an FYI, this dry rub also works well when grilling or smoking tofu.
FOR THE DRY RUB:
1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 g) 
red pepper ﬂ  akes, or to taste
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) onion powder
1 tablespoon (7 g) paprika
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper, or to taste
24 ounces (680 g) extra- or super-ﬁ  rm tofu, 
drained and pressed
FOR THE BRAISING LIQUID:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) vegetable oil
1 cup (160 g) ﬁ  nely diced white onion
1⁄2 cup (54 g) diced or shredded carrot
1⁄2 cup (51 g) ﬁ  nely chopped celery
2 tablespoons (30 g) minced garlic
2 cups (470 ml) waterDIRECTIONS:
To make the dry rub:  Place all the ingredients in a small 
airtight container and shake to combine.
Cut the tofu into 4 steaks. Liberally coat the steaks on all 
sides with the rub. Set aside.
To make the braising liquid:  Add the oil to a large pan 
with a tight-ﬁ  tting lid and heat over medium-high heat. 
Add the onion, carrot, celery, and garlic and cook until translucent and fragrant, turning occasionally to prevent scorching, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the water, bring to a boil, reduce to a low simmer, and cover.
In a dry pan over high heat, fry the tofu to blacken the 
spices, about 4 to 5 minutes per side. Lay the blackened tofu on top of the braising liquid, cover, and cook for 20 minutes. Transfer the tofu to serving plates and spoon the vegetables on top of the tofu.
YIELD:  4 steaks
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with a side of Baked Asparagus 
with Mushroom Sauce (page 166) for a complete meal.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 121SAVORY CHEESECAKE
Make this quiche-like cheesecake ahead of time so it will slice easily.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, melted
3 tablespoons (24 g) cornstarch
1⁄2 cup (50 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213)
1⁄2 recipe Skillet Cornbread (page 200) 
14 ounces (397 g) nondairy cream cheese
8 ounces (227 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, drained and crumbled
1 tablespoon (8 g) granulated onion 
2 tablespoons (2 g) chopped fresh cilantro
2 tablespoons (8 g) chopped fresh parsley
2 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon ground pepper
1⁄8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 pound (454 g) frozen green peas, thawedDIRECTIONS:
Using a blender, combine the soymilk, butter, cornstarch, 
and parmesan. Place in a 4-cup (940-ml) glass measuring cup, place in the microwave, and bring to a boil on High for 2 minutes, or until thickened. Stir with a fork or use the blender again, to eliminate lumps. Alternatively, bring the mixture to a boil in a medium-size saucepan, lower the heat to medium, and cook for 3 minutes, or until thickened, stirring constantly. Set aside to cool.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly 
coat a 9-inch (23-cm) round pan with cooking spray. 
Using a food pr ocessor, crumble the cornbread. If the 
cornbread is dry, add 1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) ol-ive oil so that it holds together when pinched. Press down into the bottom of the prepared pan.
Bake for 10 minutes, or until golden brown. Place the pan 
on a wire rack to cool before adding the ﬁ  lling. Turn down 
the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).
Using a food proc essor, combine the soymilk mixture, 
cream cheese, tofu, onion, cilantro, parsley, garlic, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. You may need to do this in a couple of batches, depending on the size of the food processor. 
Add the peas and pulse just to combine. Pour the ﬁ  lling 
evenly into the cooled crust. 
Bake for 45 minutes, or until golden brown and ﬁ  rm. 
Place the pan on a wire rack to cool. Chill overnight. Reheat in a 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4) oven for 10 minutes, or enjoy at room temperature.
YIELD:  8 servings
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with a mix of spring greens, 
radicchio, and fresh herbs drizzled with Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette (page 209).RECIPE NOTE
If you’d rather use nondairy yogurt instead of cream cheese, replace the cream cheese with 2 containers (each 6 ounces, or 170 g) unsweetened nondairy yo-gurt, and increase the amount of cornstarch to 
1⁄4 cup 
(32 g) in the soymilk mixture, then pulse in another 2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch at the same time you add the herbs and seasoning to the food pr ocessor.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 122SCALLOPED POTATO PIE
If piling up thinly sliced and delicately spiced potatoes in crispy and buttery 
puff pastry—adding creamy sauce and caramelized onions to the mix—is wrong, 
then we don’t want to be right. Enjoy with a crunchy salad composed of diced yellow 
bell pepper, baby tomatoes, and baby spinach, drizzled with your favorite dressing.
INGREDIENTS:
1 sheet (245 g) frozen vegan puff pastry 
22 ounces (615 g) russet potatoes, thinly sliced 
2 teaspoons ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 cup (80 g) caramelized chopped onion (see note)
FOR THE BÉCHAMEL:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened nondairy milk
4 ounces (113 g) nondairy cream cheese
2 large cloves garlic
1 medium-size shallot
1⁄2 teaspoon dried thyme
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground pepper, plus extra to season layers 
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
2 teaspoons (10 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juiceDIRECTIONS:
Thaw the puff pastry for 40 minutes prior to rolling it out.
In the meantime, cover the potatoes with water in a large 
pot. Add the salt. Cook for 10 minutes, or until barely tender. Drain and set aside.
To make the béchamel:  Combine all the ingredients in 
a microwave-safe measuring cup. Blend, using an immer-sion blender. Microwave for 2 minutes. Blend again and set aside.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly 
coat a 9-inch (23-cm) round baking pan with cooking spray.
Roll out the puff pastry to 
1⁄8 inch (3 mm) on a lightly 
ﬂ oured surface. Place in the prepared pan and lightly 
prick with a fork. Tuck the overhanging dough into the pan to make croissant-like crust edges.
Evenly arrange half of the potatoes on top of the pastry 
dough, layering them as necessary layer. Top with a pinch of pepper and an even layer of béchamel. Top with an even layer of the caramelized onions. Repeat a second time, topping the second layer of potatoes with a gener-ous amount of béchamel.
Bake for 45 minutes, or until golden brown. Let cool for 
20 minutes, then remove from the pan, slice, and serve.
YIELD:  8 servings
RECIPE NOTE
To caramelize onions:  Add 1⁄2 cup (80 g) chopped onion 
and 1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt to a skillet coated with olive 
oil. Sauté for 20 minutes over medium heat, or until caramelized.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 123POT PIE EXPLOSION
QUICK AND EASY
If you don’t want to commit to making a crust and happen to have 
biscuits lying around, this will be a quick and easy meal to make and 
guaranteed to bring comfort as much as a more involved pot pie would. 
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
4 cups (496 g) steamed ﬁ  nely chopped cauliﬂ  ower
8 ounces (227 g) sliced button mushrooms
2 tablespoons (20 g) chopped shallot
6 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt, or to taste
1⁄2 teaspoon ground pepper, or to taste
1⁄2 teaspoon dried basil
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch or any ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder or 
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) coconut milk or nondairy creamer
1 recipe Bacon Onion Biscuits (page 191)
1⁄3 cup (20 g) chopped fresh parsley (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the butter, cauliﬂ  ower, mushrooms, shallot, and 
garlic in a large pot. Cook for 6 minutes over medium heat, or until the mushrooms brown up a little. 
Add the salt, pepper, and basil. Cook for 4 minutes longer, 
or until the mushrooms have rendered their water. 
Add the cornstarch and maca powder. Cook for 2 minutes 
longer.
Add the broth and coconut milk and cook for 4 minutes 
longer, or until thickened.
Split the biscuits in half and serve with gravy, garnished 
with a sprinkling of parsley.
YIELD:  4 servings (3 biscuit halves per person, 
with gravy)
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with Pesto Pea-damame Soup (page 150) or Roasted Broccotato Soup with Bacon-Flavored Chickpeas (page 70).
RECIPE NOTE
To make this into an even more substantial meal, make tofu cubes following the instructions in Creamy All-in-One Bowl (page 130) , replacing the ground ginger with freshly ground pepper to taste.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 124BRUSSELS SPROUT AND CHESTNUT POT PIE
Make this hearty pie even more delectable by pouring some White Sausage Gravy (page 33) or extra 
Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212) on top upon serving. You can also prepare 4 individual pot pies by 
dividing the crust into four 4-inch (10-cm) pie plates. The baking time will decrease to about 1 hour.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1⁄4 cup (40 g) minced shallot
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 pound (454 g) brussels sprouts, trimmed and quartered
1 package (31⁄2 ounces, or 100 g) 
prepared roasted chestnuts, crumbled
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground black pepper
21⁄2 teaspoons (.17 g) dried sage
1⁄2 cup (114 g) store-bought tempeh bacon strips 
(about 6 strips), pan-fried until browned, chopped
1 cup (235 ml) Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212), 
made with 1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch 
1 recipe Basic Pie Crust (page 234), chilled
1 tablespoon (15 ml) nondairy milkDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). 
Combine the oil, shallot, garlic, sprouts, chestnuts, salt, pepper, and sage in a 9-inch (23-cm) baking dish. Roast for 24 minutes, or until the sprouts are just al dente. This will depend on the size of your sprouts.
Remove from the oven and stir in the chopped bacon 
and cheese sauce. 
Lightly coat an 8-inch (20-cm) round baking pan with 
cooking spray.
Divide the pie crust in two, with one portion slightly 
larger than the other. Roll out the larger portion on a lightly ﬂ  oured surface into a 10 
1⁄2-inch (27-cm) circle. Fit 
into the baking pan, leaving the overhanging crust as is. Using a fork, prick the bottom and sides of the crust to prevent pufﬁ  ng up.
Roll out the smaller portion of pie crust on a lightly 
ﬂ oured surface into an 8 
1⁄2-inch (22-cm) circle.
Place the ﬁ  lling evenly over the pie crust. Cover with the 
smaller crust. Bring the overhanging crust up to meet the top crust and crimp both crusts together at the edges. Using a pair of clean kitchen scissors, cut out a couple of small air vents in the center of the top crust. Lightly brush the top crust with the milk. 
Bake for 75 minutes, or until the top of the crust is golden 
brown all over. Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing and serving.
YIELD:  6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 126BETTER LOVE YOUR BEANS BAKE
Your ravenous family is bound to join you in the kitchen to enjoy the wonderful fragrance of this 
creamy mock meat–free dish while it bakes, in anticipation of ofﬁ  cial dinnertime. Be prepared!
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) chickpeas, drained and rinsed
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, store-bought or 
homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) unsweetened nondairy milk
1⁄4 teaspoon paprika
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
FOR THE FILLING:
2 teaspoons (10 ml) olive oil
1⁄4 cup (40 g) chopped onion
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 red bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced 
12 ounces (340 g) uncooked whole wheat macaroni pasta
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) black beans, 
drained, rinsed, and coarsely mashed
3⁄4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (210 g) salsa verde, 
store-bought or homemade (page 206), or regular salsa
6 tablespoons (90 g) prepared guacamole
Juice of 1 lemon
2 teaspoons hot sauce, or to taste
1 tablespoon (7 g) taco seasoningDIRECTIONS:
To make the topping:  Combine all the ingredients in a 
blender, and purée until smooth.
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Heat the oil in a medium-size skillet 
over medium heat. Add the onion, garlic, and bell pepper. Cook for 4 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the onion is translucent. 
Cook the pasta in a pot of boiling water until short of al 
dente, then drain; the pasta will keep cooking in the oven.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly 
grease a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish.
Combine the beans, salsa, guacamole, lemon juice, hot 
sauce, and taco seasoning in a large bowl, stirring well. Stir in the cooked onion mixture and the pasta. Scrape the pasta mixture into the prepared baking dish and pour the topping evenly on top.
Bake for 20 minutes, or until the topping is golden brown. 
Let rest for 15 minutes before serving.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 127CHORIZO AND POTATO LASAGNA BAKE
There is no need to add salt to this ﬂ  avor-rich dish: The capers and olives take care of that. 
If you are concerned about your sodium intake, consider rinsing both the capers and 
the olives before adding them (drain them well) or cut back on the amount a little.
INGREDIENTS:
2 pounds (908 g) thinly sliced russet potatoes, 
peeling optional 
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) extra-virgin olive oil 
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
1 tablespoon (15 ml) mild vinegar
1 clove garlic, halved
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1⁄2 teaspoon sea salt
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
FOR THE SAUCE:
2 teaspoons (10 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons (30 g) minced shallot
2 cloves garlic, minced
1.2 pounds (544 g) Roma tomatoes, ﬁ  nely diced 
1⁄2 cup (80 g) green olives with pimientos, chopped
1⁄4 cup (60 g) capers, drained 
1 tablespoon (17 g) tomato paste
2 teaspoons (2 g) dried oregano
2 teaspoons (5 g) paprika
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
12 ounces (340 g) TVP Chorizo (page 216) or 
store-bought soy chorizo
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) red wine DIRECTIONS:
Cover the potatoes with water in a large pot. Bring to 
a boil. Lower the heat to medium-high and cook until tender, about 15 minutes; drain and set aside.
To make the topping:  Add all the ingredients to a 
microwave-safe bowl and stir to combine. Heat in the mi-crowave for 2 minutes, making sure the mixture doesn’t boil over. Set aside to cool and thicken. Stir with a fork before using.
To make the sauce:  Heat the oil in saucepan. Add the 
shallot, garlic, and tomatoes. Cook for 2 minutes.
Add the olives, capers, tomato paste, oregano, paprika, 
pepper, and chorizo. Cook for 4 minutes. 
Add the wine and simmer for 10 minutes, uncovered. 
Use a potato masher and press down on the mixture and crush it just slightly.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5).In a 9-inch (23-cm) square, deep baking dish, ladle in 
enough sauce to thinly cover the bottom. Top with a single layer of potatoes. Apply more sauce, then pota-toes, and repeat until you run out of ingredients. Evenly sprinkle on the topping.
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden brown on top. 
Let stand for 20 minutes before serving.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 129CHEESY CHILI BAKE
The ﬁ  rst time we combined chili, pasta, and cheesy sauce, we were ofﬁ  cially hooked. 
This dish is part of what makes simple comfort food simply irresistible!
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened nondairy milk 
1⁄2 cup (66 g) macadamia nuts
1⁄2 cup (60 g) sliced almonds
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground pepper
2 teaspoons (10 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 cloves garlic
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1 tablespoon (8 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder or 
(8 g) extra nutritional yeast
FOR THE CHEESY SAUCE:
11⁄4 cups (295 ml) unsweetened soymilk
3⁄4 cup (90 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso
2 tablespoons (32 g) tahini
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
2 teaspoons (31 g) Dijon mustard
2 cloves garlic
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
12 ounces (340 g) uncooked elbow macaroni
4 cups (995 g) Chocolate Stout Chili (page 81) 
or any chiliDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5).
To make the topping:  Combine all the ingredients in a 
blender and process until perfectly smooth. Set aside.
To make the cheesy sauce:  Combine all the ingredients 
in a blender and process until perfectly smooth. Micro-wave for 2 minutes. Stir with a fork, and set aside.
Cook the pasta according to package directions until just 
slightly undercooked, because it will continue cooking in the oven. Drain well. 
Add the chili and cheesy sauce and stir to combine. Pour 
into a deep 10-inch (25-cm) baking dish. Cover evenly with the topping.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until golden brown on top. Serve.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 130CREAMY ALL-IN-ONE BOWL
Supper time is just around the corner of a long, draining day but you barely have 
enough energy to walk from door to couch. If you happen to have cooked rice and steamed 
broccoli left over from previous meals, this peanutty rice bowl can be ready just in time to rejuvenate 
you and ﬁ  ll you up nicely in order to enjoy some well-deserved time with family and friends. 
FOR THE TOFU:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
1 tablespoon (5 g) ground ginger 
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 pound (454 g) super-ﬁ  rm tofu, cut into tiny cubes
FOR THE DRESSING:
1⁄2 cup (128 g) natural crunchy 
cashew, almond, or peanut butter 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) seasoned rice vinegar (if you are sensitive 
to vinegar, replace some of it with vegetable broth)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso
2 cloves garlic, grated
1 teaspoon Sriracha, or to taste
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
2 cups (312 g) steamed chopped broccoli ﬂ  orets
1 cup (165 g) chopped fresh pineapple
21⁄2 cups (488 g) cooked brown jasmine rice
1⁄4 cup (5 g) chopped fresh cilantro
1⁄4 cup (35 g) chopped dry-roasted 
cashews, almonds, or peanutsDIRECTIONS:
To make the tofu:  Combine the oil, ginger, and salt in 
a skillet and heat over medium-high heat. Add the tofu cubes and fry for 10 minutes, stirring often, until brown and crispy.
To make the dressing:  Combine all the ingredients 
and stir until emulsiﬁ  ed.
Add the broccoli, pineapple, and rice to the tofu skillet, 
and cook for a few minutes until heated through. Stir in the dressing, sprinkle with the cilantro and nuts, and serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 131SAUERKRAUT AND DUMPLINS
Joni here to tell you that throughout my entire life I thought my family was the only one 
who ate this ridiculous dish every year on New Year’s Day. Come to ﬁ  nd out, when I went to 
my mommy to get the beloved family recipe, she told me, “Hold on a second, let me get out 
my box of Bisquick, the recipe is on the side of the box.” Ha! Well, when she and my Gramma Jo 
made it, they would make the “dough balls” ﬂ  oating in a broth of sauerkraut and pork. It is with 
my pleasure that I share with you this very top-secret recipe, without the pork, of course.
FOR THE SAUERKRAUT:
6 cups (1.410 l) vegetable broth
1 large jar (32 ounces, or 896 g) prepared 
sauerkraut, with liquid 
8 ounces (227 g) large-chunk TVP or Soy Curls
FOR THE DUMPLINS:
31⁄2 cups (438 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 cups (470 ml) soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, meltedDIRECTIONS:
To make the sauerkraut:  In a large pot with a tight-
ﬁ tting lid, combine the vegetable broth and sauerkraut 
with liquid and bring to a boil. Reduce to a simmer and add the TVP. 
To make the dumplins:  In a large mixing bowl, combine 
the ﬂ  our, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
In a separate small bowl, combine the soymilk and lemon 
juice. It will curdle and become like buttermilk. Add the melted butter to the buttermilk mixture and stir to combine.
Add the wet ingredients to the dry and stir to combine. 
Some lumps are okay. The batter will be wet, like a very thick pancake batter.
Using an ice-cream scoop, carefully drop the dumplin’s 
into the simmering sauerkraut. Repeat until all of the batter is used and the dough balls almost create a solid layer on top of the sauerkraut.
Cover and cook for about 30 minutes, or until the dough 
balls are fully cooked. They will still look moist on the outside, but the insides should be ﬂ  uffy.
Divide the dough balls among 8 bowls and ladle the 
sauerkraut broth on top. Serve hot.
YIELD:  8 servings
RECIPE NOTE
You can use any of your favorite proteins here—
Gardein strips, seitan, tempeh, even Tofurky sandwich slices.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 132PATATAS BRAVAS FRIT TATA
We’re breaking all the rules by serving traditionally ﬂ  avored potatoes alongside 
a non-tofu-based frittata ﬂ  avored with the spices commonly used in patatas bravas 
(a popular Catalan appetizer translating to “ﬁ  erce potatoes”), which makes for a spicy 
and satisfying dish best left to chill overnight, so that it holds its shape when sliced. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) ﬁ  re-roasted or 
regular diced tomatoes, with juice
1 can (28 ounces, or 793 g) whole 
roasted red peppers, drained and chopped
8 cloves garlic
2 dried guarillo peppers, seeds and tails removed, rinsed, 
or 1 tablespoon (7 g) mild to medium chili powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground black pepper
2 tablespoons (14 g) granulated onion 
2 tablespoons (14 g) mild paprika
2 tablespoons (30 g) ketchup 
2 cans (each 15 ounces, or 425 g) 
chickpeas, drained and rinsed
1 cup (144 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) black beans, 
drained and rinsed
1 tablespoon (15 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 cup (56 g) shredded nondairy cheese, 
such as Daiya (optional)
1 recipe Home Fries (page 151), seasoned with 
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt and 1⁄4 teaspoon ground 
pepper instead of the chipotle seasoning
1⁄4 cup (11 g) chopped fresh basil or (15 g) parsleyDIRECTIONS:
Combine the tomatoes, roasted peppers, garlic, guarillo 
peppers, salt, pepper, onion, paprika, and ketchup in a large saucepan. Bring to a boil, lower the heat to medium-low, and simmer for 15 minutes.
Using a food processor, process the chickpeas until 
broken into small pieces. Alternatively, for a smoother texture and more ﬁ  rmness for the frittata as a whole, 
process the chickpeas at the same time you do the tomato mixture, until smooth. Transfer to a large bowl.
Carefully transfer the tomato mixture to the food 
processor and blend until smooth.
Transfer the tomato mixture back to the large saucepan, 
along with the pr ocessed chickpeas, wheat gluten, 
and nutritional yeast. Stir for 1 minute, until very well combined. Stir in the black beans.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Coat a 10-inch (25-cm) cast-iron skillet or deep baking dish with the olive oil. 
Press the tomato mixture evenly into the prepared dish. 
Sprinkle with the cheese. Place on top of a baking sheet in case of overﬂ  ow. Bake for 30 minutes, or until golden 
brown and set. 
Sprinkle with the optional cheese and serve alongside 
the potatoes.
YIELD:  6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 134FIVE-CHEESE BAKED 
MACARONI AND CHEESE
This baked version of macaroni and cheese gets its cheesiness from 1) 
a noochy sauce 2) a tofu ricotta-like mixture 3) nondairy cream cheese 4) Daiya or 
other shredded vegan cheese, and 5) Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles. Yep, that’s ﬁ  ve cheeses! 
FOR THE SAUCE:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1 cup (235 ml) plain nondairy creamer or nondairy milk
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) onion powder
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
2 tablespoons (16 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
FOR THE TOFU:
10 ounces (280 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, 
drained, pr essed, and crumbled
2 tablespoons (36 g) miso
2 tablespoons (30 g) yellow mustard
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1 pound (454 g) elbow macaroni, 
prepared according to package directions
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese
1 cup (4 ounces, 112 g) shredded nondairy cheese, 
such as Daiya 
Salt and pepper, to taste
1⁄2 cup (43 g) Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles (page 212)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).
To make the sauce:  Melt the butter in a small pot over 
medium-high heat. Stir in the creamer, nutritional yeast, garlic powder, onion powder, and paprika. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to medium and stir in the ﬂ  our. Whisk 
vigorously until thickened and there are no lump. Remove from the heat and set aside.
To make the tofu:  In a large mixing bowl, combine the 
tofu, miso, mustard, and olive oil and mash with your hands until well incorporated.
Drain the pasta and return to the pot. Add the sauce, 
tofu mixture, cream cheese, and shredded cheese. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Stir to combine.
Transfer the mixture to a 9 × 13-inch (23 × 33-cm) 
baking dish. Sprinkle an even layer of Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles over the top. Bake, uncovered, for 30 minutes, or until slightly browned. 
Remove from the oven and allow to sit for about 
10 minutes before serving.
YIELD:  6 servings
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Both this recipe and the Beefy-Cheesy 
Mac on the opposite page taste great with the addition of green peas, broccoli ﬂ orets, or green beans tossed into 
the mix!MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 135BEEFY-CHEESY MAC
Joni’s mom used to make her and her sister Hamburger Helper at least once a week for dinner 
(Tuna Helper on at least one other night). Cheeseburger Macaroni was their favorite ﬂ  avor. After 
a while, she started adding peas or broccoli to the mix—you know, to make it healthier—so you 
can do that if you choose, but as a Hamburger Helper purist, Joni likes it without any add-ins.
Using a big old frying pan (with a lid) is key here, and no, you won’t have to fry the pasta, but it will 
almost taste that way! If you don’t have a huge frying pan, use a big soup pot, the wider the better.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
1 cup (160 g) ﬁ  nely diced onion
4 cups (940 ml) vegetable broth, divided
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) sesame oil
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
2 teaspoons (4.4 g) turmeric
2 tablespoons (36 g) miso 
1 tablespoon (7 g) paprika
1 tablespoon (15 g) yellow mustard
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
12 ounces (340 g) uncooked elbow macaroni
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 g) ketchup
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
In a large frying pan, melt the butter over medium-high 
heat. Add the onion and sauté until just beginning to brown. Add 1 cup (235 ml) of the vegetable broth. Bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, and stir in the TVP. Continue to cook until the TVP has absorbed most of the liquid, 5 to 7 minutes. 
Meanwhile, combine the remaining 3 cups (705 ml) vegeta-
ble broth, soymilk, vegetable oil, sesame oil, garlic powder, turmeric, miso, paprika, mustard, and nutritional yeast.
Add the mixture to the pan, stir, and bring to a boil. Add 
the macaroni, reduce to a simmer, cover, and simmer until the pasta is tender, 12 to 15 minutes, stirring often to prevent scorching.
Uncover and stir in the sour cream, ketchup, salt, and 
pepper to taste.
Remove from the heat and let stand for 10 minutes to 
thicken up before serving.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 136PASTA ALFREDO
QUICK AND EASY
Fettucine is the traditional pasta of choice here, but any pasta will do. Sometimes 
we use this sauce over macaroni, as a change from the usual mac and cheese. 
PESTO, FARRO, AND FAGIOLI
Farro is a super-chewy and delicious grain that pairs nicely here with the texture 
of the beans and the freshness of the pesto. It’s another dish that takes no time to 
prepare and won’t make a huge dent in your pocketbook while ﬁ  lling you up just right.INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter 
1 cup (240 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) soymilk
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1⁄2 cup (60 g) ﬁ  nely ground cashews
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 pound (454 g) pasta of choice, 
prepared according to package directionsDIRECTIONS:
Add the butter, sour cream, cream cheese, and soymilk to 
a pot. Heat over medium heat until melted and creamy, 5 to 7 minutes. 
Stir in the nutritional yeast, garlic powder, and cashews. 
Cook for about 3 minutes, until thickened. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve immediately over the pasta.
YIELD:  4 servings
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (180 g) uncooked semi-pearled farro
13⁄4 cups (415 ml) reduced-sodium vegetable broth
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground white pepper
1 recipe Spinach Pesto (page 210) 
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) cannellini beans, 
drained and rinsed
2 tablespoons (30 ml) balsamic vinegar
1⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
2 tablespoons (30 ml) capers, with brine
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juiceDIRECTIONS:
Toast the farro in a dry skillet over medium heat until 
fragrant, about 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the broth, salt, and pepper. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce the heat, and simmer for 15 minutes, until the grain is cooked but still chewy and the water has evaporated.
Stir in the pesto, beans, vinegar, red pepper ﬂ  akes, 
and capers. Cook, uncovered, for 2 minutes longer.
Divide among 4 bowls and top each portion with 
1⁄2 tablespoon (8 ml) lemon juice. Enjoy hot or cold.
YIELD:  4 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 137PASTA ALLA FORMIANA
Baking the uncooked pasta directly in tomato sauce imparts the whole 
dish with deep and rich Italian-style ﬂ  avors you’ll have to try to believe.
FOR THE PARMESAN:
1 cup (100 g) walnut halves
3⁄4 cup (90 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder
1⁄4 cup (20 g) panko bread crumbs
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon granulated onion
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso
FOR THE PASTA:
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) extra-virgin olive oil, divided
4 small beefsteak tomatoes, cut into 
1⁄4-inch (6-mm) thick slices, divided
21⁄2 cups (590 ml) tomato juice
11⁄4 cups (170 g) whole pitted black olives
1 teaspoon dried basil
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
4 cloves garlic
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
8 ounces (227 g) uncooked whole wheat elbow macaroniDIRECTIONS:
To make the parmesan:  Combine the walnuts, nutritional 
yeast, maca powder, bread crumbs, salt, garlic, and onion in a food processor. Blend until ﬁ  nely ground. Add the 
miso and pulse until combined. Store in an airtight con-tainer in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. 
To make the pasta:  Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, 
or gas mark 6). Coat an 8-inch (20-cm) square baking dish with 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of the oil.
Cover the bottom of the dish with the slices of 2 tomatoes.Using a blender, combine the juice, olives, basil, red pep-
per ﬂ  akes, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil, garlic, and 
onion. Add to the uncooked macaroni in a large bowl and stir to combine.
Transfer to the dish, on top of the tomato slices. Cover 
with the slices of the remaining 2 tomatoes. Drizzle the tomatoes with the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) oil. Place on a baking sheet in case it overﬂ  ows.
Bake, uncovered, for 1 hour, or until the tomatoes are 
brown on top. Sprinkle each serving with the parmesan. 
YIELD:  4 servings, 2
1⁄4 cups (225 g) parmesanHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 138SAUTÉED CHEESE TORTELLINI
If you have a pasta roller, this is a breeze. If you don’t, just use a well-ﬂ  oured surface 
and a rolling pin. These are great sautéed in a frying pan with salt and pepper, 
because the ﬁ  lling is so rich. A simple marinara would also be a nice accompaniment.
FOR THE FILLING:
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese
1 tablespoon (18 g) white or yellow miso
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 teaspoon dried basil
FOR THE DOUGH:
21⁄2 cups (313 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) olive oil
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) water
3 tablespoons (45 ml) olive oil, for sautéing
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Mash together all the ingredients. 
Refrigerate until ready to use.
To make the dough:  In a medium-size mixing bowl, com-
bine the ﬂ  our and salt. Make a well in the center of the 
ﬂ our and add the oil and water. Knead in the bowl until 
the dough begins to come together.
Turn out onto a well-ﬂ  oured surface and knead into a stiff 
but elastic dough, about 5 minutes. If needed, add more water, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) at a time. To make it easier to work with, divide into 4 equal pieces.
Roll each piece as thin as possible, about 
1⁄16 inch (1.5 mm). 
Using a 3-inch (7.5-cm) round cookie cutter, or the top of a pint glass, cut out 40 pieces. 
Add about 1 teaspoon of ﬁ  lling to the edge of each of a 
round. Roll it up like a little burrito, then twist the edges tightly (the dough should be plenty elastic and not give you trouble here). Bring the ends together and pinch to form a ring; it will look almost like a little crab. Repeat with all 40 rounds.
Spread in a single layer on the counter and allow to dry 
for about 1 hour. You can also freeze them at this point for later use. They will keep for at least a month if stored in an airtight container in the freezer. 
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil. 
Gently place the tortellini in the boiling water. Boil for about 6 minutes, or until they ﬂ  oat to the top of the water.
Pour some of the oil into a frying pan, and heat over 
medium-high heat. Using a slotted spoon, lift the tortel-lini out of the water, drain the excess water, and transfer some to the hot oil, being careful of splatters. Do not overcrowd the pan. Sauté for 3 to 4 minutes per side, adding salt and pepper to taste. Repeat in batches to fry all of the tortellini.
Let sit for about 10 minutes before serving to allow the 
ﬁ lling to cool.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servings MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 139TRADITIONAL RED LASAGNA
This rich and ﬁ  lling lasagna is so much like the real thing that any 
skeptics in your household will be hard-pressed to notice a difference!
FOR THE RICOTTA:
14 ounces (397 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, dr ained and pressed
1⁄4 cup (35 g) ﬁ  nely ground raw cashews 
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
3 tablespoons (45 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons (6 g) ﬁ  nely chopped fresh basil or 
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SAUCE:
28 ounces (784 g) canned diced tomatoes with juice, 
no salt added
8 ounces (227 g) tomato sauce
6 ounces (170 g) tomato paste
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried basil or 
3 tablespoons (9 g) fresh, chopped
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar 
1 tablespoon (2 2 g) molasses
2 tablespoons (30 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
6 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup (160 g) ﬁ  nely diced white or yellow onion
11⁄4 cups (120 g) TVP granules 
12 uncooked no-boil lasagne noodles
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
2 tablespoons (14 g) ground cashews or walnutsDIRECTIONS:
To make the ricotta:  Crumble the tofu into a bowl until it 
resembles ricotta. Add all the remaining ingredients and mix together with your hands. Set aside.
To make the sauce:  Place the tomatoes, sauce, tomato 
paste, basil, sugar, and mola sses in a large stockpot. Bring 
to a simmer over medium-low heat. 
Meanwhile, in a skillet, heat the olive oil and sauté the 
garlic and onion until fragrant and translucent, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and onion to the pot. Cover and continue to simmer for 20 minutes longer. Uncover and simmer for 10 minutes longer. Stir in the TVP, cover, and let sit for 10 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). To assemble the lasagna, be sure to reserve some 
sauce and ricotta for the very top of the lasagna. You will have 4 layers of pasta in all, so divide each ingredient accordingly.
In a square 8- or 9-inch (20- or 23-cm) baking dish, 
spread a thin layer of sauce, add 3 noodles in a single lay-er, add another layer of sauce, and then a layer of ricotta. Repeat until there are 4 layers of noodles. Top with a ﬁ  nal 
light layer of sauce and ricotta, and then sprinkle with the nutritional yeast and cashews. 
Bake, uncovered, for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the top is 
beginning to brown and the noodles are nice and tender.
Let stand for at least 15 minutes before serving, so that 
the portions don’t fall apart when cut.
YIELD:  6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 141   PASTA ALLA CARB-ONARA
We think the taste of this creamy, animal-friendly version comes 
really close to its original cholesterol-unfriendly incarnation.
TWICE-BAKED SPAGHETTI
Growing up at Joni’s house, she would have spaghetti one night, and twice “baked” 
spaghetti the next night, presumably with the leftovers from the night before. INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 cup (51 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213) 
14 ounces (414 ml) light coconut milk or 
nondairy creamer 
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
4 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ground black pepper, or to taste
1 tablespoon (8 g) granulated onion
10 ounces (283 g) uncooked spaghetti
1⁄2 cup (40 g) imitation bacon bits
2 cups (320 g) frozen green peas, thawed
1⁄3 cup (20 g) chopped fresh parsley
Freshly squeezed lemon juice or zest, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
In a blender, combine the oil, parmesan, coconut milk, 
cornstarch, garlic, pepper, and onion and process until smooth. 
Bring water in a large pot to a boil. Cook the pasta just 
short of al dente; it will cook some more when combined with the sauce. Drain well. Return the pasta to the pot.
Pour the sauce onto the pasta and add the bacon bits 
and peas. Cook over low heat for a few minutes, just until heated through and thickened.
Sprinkle with the parsley, add a touch of lemon juice or 
zest to brighten up the ﬂ  avors, and serve.
YIELD:  6 servings
INGREDIENTS:
1 pound (454 g) prepared spaghetti 
1 can (14 ounces, or 392 g) diced tomatoes, drained
1 cup (244 g) marinara sauce
1⁄2 cup (112 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄2 cup (40 g) panko bread crumbs or 
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles (page 212)
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).
Add the tomatoes, marinara, mayonnaise, cream cheese, 
and nutritional yeast to the prepared spaghetti. Stir to combine. Transfer to a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish. Smooth out the top.
Sprinkle the top evenly with the panko. Season with salt 
and pepper to taste.
Bake for 1 hour, or until the topping is just beginning 
to brown. Let rest for about 10 minutes before slicing and serving.
YIELD:  9 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 142EGGPLANT PARMIGIANA
”Hearty, fruity, ﬁ  lling, and just wonderful” is the way this one-stop meal was 
described by one of our testers, Constanze, of the popular German site Seitan Is My Motor. 
We think that says it all and hope you’ll feel the same way Constanze does.
FOR THE EGGPLANT:
2 large eggplants, sliced into 1⁄8-inch (3-mm) thick rounds
3 tablespoons (45 ml) olive oil
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
FOR THE MARINARA:
1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive oil
4 sun-dried tomatoes, packed in oil, chopped 
4 cloves garlic, minced 
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
2 teaspoons (3.6 g) dried oregano
2 teaspoons (2.8 g) dried basil
2 teaspoons capers, with brine
1⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
4 ounces (113 g) tomato paste
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) ﬁ  re-roasted or regular diced 
tomatoes, with juice
1 cup (235 ml) tomato sauce
1⁄2 cup (50 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213) 
1 recipe mozzarella (page 214) DIRECTIONS:
To make the eggplant:  Preheat the oven to 400°F 
(200°C, or gas mark 6). Divide the eggplant slices be-tween 2 large, rimmed baking sheets. Lightly brush each side with oil and sprinkle with salt. 
Roast for 20 minutes, or until tender. Remove from the 
oven and set aside until cool enough to handle.
To make the marinara:  Combine the oil, sun-dried toma-
toes, garlic, onion, oregano, basil, capers, and red pepper ﬂ akes in a saucepan. Cook over medium-high heat for 
2 minutes, to let the ﬂ  avors develop. Add the tomato 
paste, diced tomatoes, and tomato sauce. Bring to a low boil, lower the heat, and simmer, uncovered, for 15 minutes.
Have ready a 9 × 13-inch (23 × 33-cm) baking dish. There 
will be 3 layers of marinara, 2 of eggplants and 2 of par-mesan. Cover the bottom of the dish with 1 cup (235 ml) of the marinara. Evenly top with half of the eggplant slices (it’s okay if you layer them a bit). Top with 
1⁄4 cup (25 g) of 
the parmesan. Repeat with 1 cup (235 ml) marinara, the remaining eggplant slices, and the remaining 
1⁄4 cup (25 g) 
parmesan. Cover with the remaining marinara and dollop circles of the mozzarella over the top.
Bake for 20 minutes, or until the mozzarella is golden 
brown. Let stand for 15 minutes before slicing and serving. 
YIELD:  6 servingsMEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 143ROASTED BROCCOLI AND GARLIC PIZZA
Roasting broccoli brings out a nutty taste that makes even the biggest vegetable hater unable to 
resist it. Pair it with a thin, crispy crust and the inimitable ﬂ  avor of garlic, and you can safely say you’ve 
got a winner here. You can also make 2 smaller pizzas, adjusting the baking time accordingly.
FOR THE ROASTED BROCCOLI:
31⁄2 cups (250 g) broccoli ﬂ  orets, 
cut into even smaller ﬂ  orets
2 teaspoons (10 ml) red balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
4 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
FOR THE WHITE MARINARA: 
1 cup (180 ml) unsweetened nondairy creamer or milk
1 cup (100 g) Hemp Almond Parmesan (page 213)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground pepper, or to taste
1 recipe Garlic Knots dough (page 202), 
prepared following the recipe note (but not baked)
Extra-virgin olive oil, for drizzlingDIRECTIONS:
To roast the broccoli:  Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, 
or gas mark 6). Combine all the ingredients in a large bowl, using your hands to massage the oil into the broc-coli ﬂ  orets. Roast for 20 minutes, or until the broccoli just 
starts to become tender, because it will roast some more when the pizza bakes. Alternatively, you can choose to simply steam the broccoli until just tender, about 4 min-utes, and then combine it with the other ingredients. 
To make the marinara:  Combine all the ingredients in 
a blender and process until smooth. Transfer to a small saucepan and cook over medium heat until slightly thick-ened, about 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Set aside.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough, roll into a large, thin rectangle 
about 14 × 12 inches (36 × 30 cm), and place on a lightly 
ﬂ oured baking sheet. Evenly spread the marinara almost 
to the edges of the pizza, top with the roasted broccoli, and let rest for 15 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6).Bake the pizza for 20 minutes, or until the edges are 
golden brown. Transfer to a wire rack if not eating im-mediately. Drizzle a small amount of extra-virgin olive oil over the pizza upon serving.
YIELD:  8 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 144DEEP-DISH PIZZA PIE
Make no mistake, this is a PIE. A knife-and-fork pizza. We have listed some ﬁ  llings 
in the recipe, but you can add whatever you want here. Go simple, or go all out. 
A 10- to 12-inch (25- to 30-cm) cast-iron skillet is perfect for this recipe.
INGREDIENTS:
2 recipes Garlic Knots dough (page 202), 
prepared following the recipe note (but not baked)
1 cup (257 g) marinara or pizza sauce
1 cup (160 g) diced onion
1 cup (149 g) diced bell pepper
1 cup (70 g) sliced mushrooms
1⁄2 cup (68 g) sliced black olives
1 recipe TVP Pepperoni (page 214)
1 recipe mozzarella (page 214) 
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Gently punch down the dough. Divide into 2 equal pieces. 
Stretch 1 piece into the bottom of the cast-iron pan so that it also goes up the sides, leaving about 
1⁄2 inch 
(1.3 cm) overhang around the edge. Set the other piece aside while you ﬁ  ll the pie.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6).Fill the pie the same way that you ﬁ  ll a lasagna—in layers. 
Three layers is a good number to shoot for, so divide your ingredients accordingly. Layer the marinara, then the veggies, then the pepperoni, then the mozzarella. Repeat, ﬁ nishing with a ﬁ  nal thin layer of marinara.
Divide the remaining piece of dough into 10 equal pieces. 
Roll each piece into a rope the length of the diameter of the pie. Weave the ropes (5 going each way) to form the top crust. Roll the edge of the bottom crust over the edge of the top crust and crimp with the tines of a fork. Sprinkle the top with garlic powder, salt, and pepper.
Bake for 30 minutes, or until the top is golden brown. 
Allow to rest for at least 10 minutes before cutting and serving.
YIELD:  8 servings
RECIPE NOTE
Did you know that, contrary to popular belief, pizza was 
ﬁ rst invented by the Greeks, who baked large round ﬂ  at-
breads and topped them with olive oil, spices, potatoes and other vegetables? Cheese and tomatoes weren’t even introduced as toppings until much later—in the late 1800s—by Italians in Naples.MEAN AND MOUTHWATERING MAINS 145PESTO CON GUSTO PIZZA
It’s so easy being green! This big pizza is loaded with the inimitable ﬂ  avors of garlic, 
basil, and olive oil. Kind of like a vacation in Italy, without the cost. Or jet lag. Bear in mind that 
the mozzarella will have a creamy consistency, but it will not be solid like its dairy version.
FOR THE MOZZARELLA:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white balsamic vinegar
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
FOR THE PESTO:
3⁄4 cup (90 g) walnuts
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso
Juice of 1⁄2 lemon
2 cloves garlic, minced
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
11⁄2 cups (36 g) packed fresh basil
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
FOR THE CRUST:
1 recipe Garlic Knots dough (page 202), 
prepared following the recipe note (but not baked)DIRECTIONS:
To make the mozzarella:  Combine all the ingredients in 
a blender and process until smooth. Transfer to a 4-cup (940-ml) glass measuring cup and microwave on High for 2 minutes, keeping a close eye so that it doesn’t bubble over, because it needs to boil to thicken. Let stand for 15 minutes, then stir with a fork. Chill for 2 hours. Stir with a fork before using.
To make the pesto:  In a food processor, grind the walnuts 
and miso until a smooth paste forms. Add the lemon juice, garlic, and pepper; pulse several times. Add the basil, pulse several times. Drizzle in the oil while the ma-chine is running until the desired consistency is reached. 
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6).Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and roll into a large, thin rect-
angle 14 × 12 inches (36 × 30 cm), and place on a lightly 
ﬂ oured baking sheet. Spread the pesto evenly on top of 
the crust. Dollop circles of the mozzarella over the pesto. 
Bake for 24 minutes, or until golden brown. Let cool on 
a wire rack before slicing and serving.
YIELD:  8 servingsCHAPTER 4
Over-the-Top, Totally 
Tantalizing Sides
Nutritious and nourishing ways to fill your plate 
and build a completely satisfying meal. 
Let these lip-smacking, scrumptious side dishes be the Robin to your Batman! These sides, snacks, 
and starters are so tasty and ﬁ  lling, you might just end up eating them as a meal all by themselves. 
(No offense to Batman.)
With so many irresistible recipes to choose from—wings, fries, deli salads, mashed potatoes, and so 
much more—you’ll have a mighty hard time choosing a family “favorite.” Recipe throw down, anyone?HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 148MUCHO MACHO NACHOS
A plateful of these nachos, your favorite show on TV, a cuddly companion of the furry 
or non-furry persuasion at hand and you’re all set for the best couch potato session ever.
INGREDIENTS:
1 recipe Spelt Flour Tortillas (page 199), 
made into chips following instructions below
1 recipe Pico de Gallo (page 206)
1 recipe Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212), 
made with cheddar-style vegan cheeseDIRECTIONS:
Prepare tortillas, and cut them into eighths. You can then 
either bake or fry them to make your tortilla chips. 
To bake:  Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 
5). Lightly brush the tortilla pieces with 2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil or coat with nonstick cooking spray. Sprinkle with sea salt. Place evenly in single layers on several large baking sheets. Bake for 8 minutes, or until lightly golden and crisp. Keep a close eye so they don’t burn. Let cool on wire rack.
To fry:  Use a deep fryer, or ﬁ  ll a heavy, deep saucepan 
with 3 inches (7.5 cm) oil. Heat to 350°F (180°C). Do not overcrowd! Fry the chips in batches until golden brown, ﬂ ipping them once, for 1 to 2 minutes. Remove from the 
oil with a heat-proof slotted spoon. Drain on paper towels. Immediately sprinkle with sea salt. Repeat with the remaining tortillas. Let cool on a wire rack.
To assemble the nachos:  Place a generous handful of 
chips on a plate. Top with lots of pico de gallo so that you get some healthy veggies in your belly. Cover with as much cheesy sauce as wanted. Serve immediately. 
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 149IRISH NACHOS
Traditionally made with wafﬂ  e fries, this version is made home-kitchen friendly 
by using tater tots. They also taste great with sweet potato fries.
FOR THE SAUCE:
1 cup (235 ml) plain nondairy soy creamer
1 tablespoon (15 ml) soy sauce
1 tablespoon (14 g) nondairy butter
1 tablespoon (18 g) white or yellow miso
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄2 teaspoon yellow mustard
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch mixed with 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water to make a slurry
1⁄2 teaspoon liquid smoke (optional)
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE NACHOS:
1 pound (454 g) tater tots, prepared 
according to package directions
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 cup (24 g) diced scallion or chives
1 tomato, seeded and diced
1⁄2 cup (48 g) imitation bacon bits, store-bought or 
homemade (page 216), or 5 slices Hickory-Smoked 
Breakfast Strips (page 38), broken into bits
A few slices jarred jalapeños, or to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the sauce:  In a sauce pot, add the creamer, 
soy sauce, butter, miso, nutritional yeast, mustard, garlic powder, onion powder, and paprika. Bring to a boil, stirring often. Decrease the heat to low, and stir in the cornstarch slurry to thicken. Stir in the liquid smoke, salt, and pepper.
To assemble the nachos:  On a plate, layer ﬁ  rst the tater 
tots, then the sauce, then the sour cream, then the scal-lion, then the tomato, then the bacon bits, and ﬁ  nally the 
jalapeños.
YIELD:  2 to 4 servings
RECIPE NOTE
Take this dish from snack to main course by adding 
a heaping pile of Chocolate Stout Chili (page 81) or another favorite chili recipe.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 150BACON-WRAPPED WATER CHESTNUTS
These little guys are a perfect appetizer or snack. Serve with maple syrup for dipping.
PESTO PEA-DAMAME SOUP
QUICK AND EASY
This nutritious green soup is packed with ﬂ  avor and involves very little work.INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 recipe Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips 
dough (page 38)
24 canned whole water chestnuts, drained
1 cup (235 ml) water
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) soy sauce
1 tablespoon (15 ml) hickory-ﬂ  avored liquid smokeDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). Have 
ready a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish.
On a lightly ﬂ  oured surface, roll out the dough to about 
1⁄8 inch (3 mm) thick. Cut into 24 strips, 1 inch (2.5 cm) 
wide by 4 inches (10 cm) long.
Roll 1 water chestnut up in 1 strip of dough and secure 
with a toothpick. Place in the baking dish. Repeat until all 24 water chestnuts are wrapped.
In a small bowl, combine the water, soy sauce, and liquid 
smoke. Pour over the wrapped water chestnuts.
Bake for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and 
carefully drain the liquid. Return to the oven and bake for 20 minutes longer. Serve warm.
YIELD:  24 pieces
FOR THE PESTO:
1⁄2 cup (80 g) dry-roasted whole almonds
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 cup (24 g) packed fresh basil
1⁄3 to 1⁄2 cup (80 to 120 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
FOR THE SOUP:
1 pound (454 g) frozen green peas
12⁄3 cups (255 g) ready-to-eat shelled edamame
4 cups (940 ml) vegetable broth
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the pesto:  In a food pr ocessor, blend the al-
monds, miso, and garlic until ﬁ  nely ground. Add the basil, 
and pulse several times until no whole leaves are left. Drizzle in the oil while the machine is running until the desired consistency is reached. Set aside.
To make the soup:  Combine the peas, edamame, and 
broth in a large saucepan. Bring to a boil, decrease the heat, and simmer, uncovered, for 15 minutes. Add the pesto and stir until combined. Using a blender, partially blend some of the soup to leave some character and tex-ture to it. Season with salt and pepper upon serving.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 151HOME FRIES WITH 
CHIPOTLE BBQ SEASONING
GLUTEN FREE
Serve these potatoes that aren’t afraid to show their true colors alongside even more spicy 
goodness, such as Orange Chipotle Wings (page 154) or Taco Salad (page 118). If you prefer cooling 
things down a bit, try them with the ﬁ  lling for Waldorf Salad Wraps (page 89) served as a salad.
FOR THE SEASONING:
2 tablespoons (15 g) medium chili powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) chipotle chile powder
2 teaspoons (4.2 g) ground cumin
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
2 teaspoons imitation bacon bits, store-bought or 
homemade (page 216), or 1 teaspoon smoked salt
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon dried cilantro
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon Worcestershire-ﬂ  avored or 
regular ground pepper
FOR THE POTATOES:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter, divided
13⁄4 pounds (800 g) mix of red and 
Yukon gold potatoes, brushed clean, peeling 
optional, cut into 1⁄2-inch (1.3-cm) cubes
Salt, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the seasoning:  Combine all the ingredients 
using a coffee grinder or small f ood processor. Store in 
an airtight container for a limitless amount of time.
To make the potatoes:  Heat the oil and 1 tablespoon 
(14 g) of the butter in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Once the butter melts, add the potatoes. Cook over medium heat, stirring often, until the potatoes are golden brown and tender, about 20 minutes. If you see the potatoes need a little more moisture, add the remaining 1 tablespoon (14 g) butter. 
Add 2 tablespoons (10 g) of the seasoning and stir to 
combine. Cook for 2 minutes longer. Season with salt and serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 servings, 
1⁄2 cup (40 g) seasoning
RECIPE NOTES
• For the crispiest potatoes, get rid of the starch. 
Put the potato cubes in a bowl of cold water; let stand for 1 hour in the refrigerator. Dry thoroughly by patting with a clean, dry kitchen towel. 
• Use the leftover seasoning as a rub for tofu or 
tempeh, or to ﬂ  avor TVP .HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 152GARLIC TRUFFLE FRIES
GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
Taking french fries from yum to whoa! A deep fryer works best here, but if you 
don’t have one a pot ﬁ  lled with about 4 inches (10 cm) of oil will work just ﬁ  ne.
INGREDIENTS:
1 pound (454 g) russet potatoes, peeled
2 tablespoons (30 ml) black trufﬂ  e oil
1⁄2 teaspoon sea salt
2 cloves garlic, pressed 
Vegetable oil, for frying
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried parsleyDIRECTIONS:
Cut the potatoes into thin fries. You can make them 
thicker, but thinner means crispier, and more surface area to absorb the ﬂ  avors! If you have a mandolin, this would 
be an excellent time to use it. If not, just use your awe-some knife skills to cut them into a thin julienne.
Rinse the fries in ice cold water to get rid of the extra 
starch and prevent discoloration. Pat dry with a kitchen towel, being sure to get rid of excess moisture; wet pota-toes can be dangerous when they come into contact with hot oil.
In a large, heat-resistant bowl, whisk together the trufﬂ  e 
oil, salt, and garlic.
Preheat the oil to 350°F (180°C). Have ready a wire cool-
ing rack with a kitchen towel or paper towels under it to catch the excess oil.
Add the fries in small batches to the oil and fry for about 
1
1⁄2 minutes. Transfer to the wire rack to drain and cool. 
Repeat until all the fries have been cooked.
Now repeat the process, this time leaving the fries in a 
little longer to get golden and crispy. Transfer to the wire rack to drain for a few moments. 
Transfer to the bowl and toss to coat with the trufﬂ  e 
mixture while they are still hot. Sprinkle with parsley and give a ﬁ  nal toss to coat before serving.
YIELD:  1 pound (454 g) of fries . . . how many servings 
that is, well, that is subjective!OVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 153TWICE-BAKED POTATOES
Nothing says comfort food quite the way potatoes do! Throw a deliciously 
creamy sauce into the mix, and have a joyous trip into perfect bliss.
FOR THE POTATOES:
3 large russet potatoes, scrubbed clean
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SAUCE:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) extra-virgin olive oil, melted coconut oil, or 
melted nondairy butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white balsamic vinegar
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground nutmeg or 11⁄2 teaspoons 
herbes de Provence
Freshly ground pepper, to taste
1 tablespoon (8 g) arrowroot powderDIRECTIONS:
To make the potatoes:  Preheat the oven to 400°F 
(200°C, or gas mark 6). Pierce the ends of all the pota-toes with a knife. Rub with the oil and sprinkle with the salt and pepper. Place the potatoes directly on the oven rack, with a baking pan at the lower level to catch drip-pings. Bake for 1 hour, or until the skin is crispy and the ﬂ esh tender. 
To make the sauce:  Combine all the ingredients in a 
blender and process until smooth. Transfer to a micro-wave-safe container and microwave on High for 2 min-utes, keeping a close eye so that it doesn’t bubble over. Let stand for 15 minutes, then stir with a fork. Let stand or 20 minutes longer. Stir with a fork before using.
Lower the oven temperature to 375°F (190°C, or gas 
mark 5). Wearing an oven mitt, cut the potatoes in half and carefully scoop out most of the ﬂ  esh. Place the 
potato skins on a baking sheet.
Mash the scooped-out ﬂ  esh with the sauce. Scoop into 
the potato skins, smoothing the top. Bake for 20 minutes, or until the top is golden brown.
YIELD:  6 potato halves
RECIPE NOTE
Serve these topped with nondairy shredded cheese 
or sour cream, imitation bacon bits, and chopped chives. Or serve alongside Root Beer Beans (page 167) or Lentil and Bacon Pot O’ Stew (page 75).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 154ORANGE CHIPOTLE WINGS
Not that you need any special occasion to prepare this easy and delicious 
ﬁ nger food, but these wings will be especially welcome during football season.
INGREDIENTS:
1 teaspoon orange zest
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) freshly squeezed orange juice
1 tablespoon (15 ml) blended chipotle and adobo sauce 
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
1 clove garlic, minced
1⁄4 teaspoon sea salt, or to taste
8 ounces (227 g) tempeh, cut lengthwise into 8 pieces 
Scant 1⁄2 cup (55 g) arrowroot powder or cornstarch
1⁄2 cup (40 g) panko or other bread crumbs, 
plus more as needed
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter, melted
2 teaspoons (1.2 g) dried cilantro
1 tablespoon (14 g) packed light brown sugarDIRECTIONS:
In a shallow dish, combine the orange zest, juice, chipotle 
sauce, onion, garlic, and salt. Place the tempeh pieces in the dish and marinate for 10 minutes, ﬂ  ipping them over 
occasionally.
In the meantime, place the arrowroot powder in another 
shallow dish. Place the bread crumbs in yet another shal-low dish.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
Dredge a piece of tempeh in the arrowroot powder, mak-
ing sure every side is covered and shaking off the excess powder. Dip back into the marinade on each side. Dredge in the bread crumbs, making sure every side is covered. Place on the prepared baking sheet. Repeat with the re-maining 7 tempeh slices. There will be leftover marinade; don’t worry if some of the arrowroot powder or bread crumbs are left in there.
Coat each tempeh piece with cooking spray. Bake for 
15 minutes, ﬂ  ip over, and bake for 15 minutes longer.
As the tempeh bakes, whisk together the remaining 
marinade, melted butter, cilantro, and sugar.
Remove the wings from the oven and cover them with 
the sauce. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  8 wings
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with broccoli and garlic sautéed 
in olive oil, or if you have a little leftover orange sauce from the wings, pour it on top of the broccoli, too.RECIPE NOTE
If you usually ﬁ  nd tempeh to have a slightly bitter taste 
to it, simmer it in 2 cups (470 ml) vegetable broth, along with a dried bay leaf, for 20 minutes. Drain well and use in any recipe.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 156HAM-ISH SAUCISSES
A quick and easy protein-rich treat sure to please everyone in the family. Make it a healthy 
snack by simply dunking the saucisses into mustard or ketchup and munching away.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (144 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) garbanzo fava bean ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
2 teaspoons (4.8 g) granulated onion
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ground pepper
1⁄2 teaspoon dried oregano
1⁄2 teaspoon dried sage
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure maple syrup
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon liquid smoke
1 teaspoon mustard
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) waterDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Have 
2 baking sheets ready. Cut a large piece of parchment paper or foil into eight 8 × 4-inch (20 × 10-cm) pieces.
In a medium-size bowl, combine the wheat gluten, ﬂ  our, 
nutritional yeast, onion, garlic powder, pepper, oregano, and sage. Add the soy sauce, syrup, oil, vinegar, liquid smoke, mustard, and water and use your hands to knead and incorporate, about 2 minutes. Let rest for 15 minutes to let the gluten develop.
Divide the dough into 8 equal portions, a little over 
2 tablespoons (50 g) each. Shape the dough into mini sausages. Tightly wrap in the parchment paper or foil pieces. Place on a baking sheet and top with the other baking sheet to weight down the sausages so they don’t expand too much.
Bake for 30 minutes. Remove the top baking sheet. Un-
wrap the sausages: they should be golden and ﬁ  rm, but 
if they aren’t, bake them unwrapped until they are done.
Let cool on a wire rack. These freeze beautifully. 
YIELD:  8 mini sausages
RECIPE NOTE
These saucisses are great as a snack or used in Haute 
Pockets (page 98). They can also be wrapped and baked in cut-out puff pastry until golden brown for easy peasy pigs in a blanket, and they will make your kids (and grown-ups) go bananas when served with Ants on a Log in a Bowl (page 163).OVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 157SLOW COOKER 
COCKTAIL WEENIES 
A little prep work ahead of time, turn the slow cooker on, set out a pack 
of toothpicks, and let the guests snack on these little guys all night!
INGREDIENTS:
1 bottle (28 ounces, or 784 g) barbecue sauce
1 jar (10 ounces, or 280 g) grape jelly
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) water
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
3⁄4 cup (108 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
2 teaspoons (5 g) paprika
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (8 g) onion powder
3 tablespoons (45 ml) vegetable oil
2 tablespoons (32 g) creamy no-stir peanut butter
1⁄4 cup (60 g) plain soy yogurtDIRECTIONS:
Add the barbecue sauce and grape jelly to the bottom of 
your slow cooker. Stir to combine. Cover and turn on the slow cooker to the High setting.
To reconstitute the TVP, stir together the granules, 
water, liquid smoke, and nutritional yeast in a microwave-safe dish, cover tightly with plastic wrap, and microwave on High for 5 to 6 minutes. Alternatively, bring the water to a boil and pour over the granules mixed with the liquid smoke and nutritional yeast, cover, and let sit for 10 minutes.
Add the reconstituted TVP mixture to the bowl of a food 
processor. Add the wheat gluten, cornstarch, paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, oil, peanut butter, and yogurt and pulse until well combined and resembles loose ground beef.
Using about 1 teaspoon of the mixture at a time, form into 
a small cocktail weenie shape and place in the now hot barbecue sauce mixture. Repeat until all of the mixture is used, about 40 weenies, trying to add them to the slow cooker in a single layer. 
Cook on High for 2 hours. Change to the Keep Warm set-
ting and serve as an appetizer right out of the cooker!
YIELD:  40 weeniesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 158CRISPY MAC AND CHEESE BALLS
Oh, yes. We did. We ﬁ  nd it easiest to make these over a 2-day period. Make the mac and cheese and 
form it into balls one night. Place them in the freezer overnight, and then do the battering and frying 
the next day. You will only make yourself miserable if you try to batter an unfrozen ball. It won’t work. 
They will fall apart and leave you cursing and throwing them all about the kitchen. Trust us on this one.
So here you have it—pasta mixed with bread, dipped in batter, and deep-fried! Oh my!
FOR THE MAC AND CHEESE BALLS:
8 ounces (227 g) uncooked elbow macaroni
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy cream cheese
1 tablespoon (18 g) miso paste
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
11⁄2 teaspoons (4.5 g) garlic powder
11⁄2 teaspoons (3.6 g) onion powder
1⁄2 cup (40 g) panko bread crumbs
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
11⁄2 teaspoons yellow mustard
Vegetable oil or shortening, for frying
FOR THE BATTER:
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1 teaspoon dried parsley
Salt and black pepper, to taste
2 cups (470 ml) nondairy creamer or milk
Marinara or ranch dressing, for dipping sauce (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the mac and cheese balls:  Prepare the pasta 
according to package directions. Drain and return to the pot. Add the cream cheese, miso, butter, paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, bread crumbs, nutritional yeast, and mustard and stir until well combined.
Line a baking sheet with parchment or waxed paper. 
Take about 2 tablespoons (28 g) of the mac and cheese and form it into a small ball, about the size of a golf ball. Place on the baking sheet, and repeat until all of the mixture is used.
Place the baking sheet in the freezer for several hours, 
or overnight, for the balls to get hard and stiff.
Preheat a deep fryer ﬁ  lled with oil. If you don’t have a 
deep fryer, use a pot ﬁ  lled with 4 inches (10 cm) of oil, 
heated to 350°F (180°C). Line a platter or plate with paper towels to absorb the excess oil.
To make the batter:  In a medium-size bowl, mix together 
all of the batter ingredients.
Dip 1 frozen ball into the batter, and then place in the hot 
oil. Repeat with 2 or 3 more balls, but avoid overcrowd-ing. Fry for about 4 minutes, or until golden and crispy. Transfer to the plate to drain. Repeat with the remaining balls, frying in batches of 3 or 4 balls at a time.
Serve warm. Enjoy on their own or serve with marinara 
or ranch dressing for a dipping sauce.
YIELD:  25 ballsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 159HUSH PUPPIES
This version of a Southern classic is beefed up a bit with chopped onions, peppers, and whole 
kernels of corn. They taste great on their own, but even better dipped in Creamy Cheesy Sauce 
(page 212) or the Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn (page 207). A deep fryer works best here, 
but if you don’t have one, a pot ﬁ  lled with about 4 inches (10 cm) of oil will do just ﬁ  ne.
INGREDIENTS:
Vegetable oil, for frying
1 cup (235 ml) plain soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 cup (140 g) cornmeal 
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
1 cup (136 g) yellow corn kernels
1⁄4 cup (40 g) ﬁ  nely diced onion
1⁄4 cup (40 g) ﬁ  nely diced red or green bell pepper
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
1 recipe Creamy Cheesy Sauce (page 212) or Mexican-
Style Dipping Sauce for Corn (page 207) (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the lemon juice and soymilk in a measuring cup: 
It will curdle and become like buttermilk.
In a mixing bowl, combine the cornmeal, ﬂ  our, sugar, bak-
ing powder, baking soda, salt, and cayenne pepper. Add the buttermilk mixture to the ﬂ  our mixture and stir to 
combine. Fold in the corn, onion, bell pepper, and garlic. Let rest for about 10 minutes. 
Heat the oil in a deep or pot to 350°F (180°C). Carefully drop a heaping rounded tablespoon (30 g) of 
batter into the hot oil. (You can add about 4 at a time, just be sure not to overcrowd them.) Fry for 3 to 4 min-utes, turning often, until deep golden brown. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat until all the batter is used.
Serve warm with the dipping sauce.
YIELD:  About 20 hush puppies
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve these puppies  as a starchy side, 
but make sure to include a nice veg-etable side like the Collard Greens (page 173) to round out your meal.OVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 161TOFU JERKY
LOW FAT
Chewy, salty, protein-rich and readily enjoyable at any time of the day, 
this jerky is healthier than chips and possibly even more addictive. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 pound (454 g) super-ﬁ  rm tofu or frozen, thawed, 
and pressed extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, sliced between 1⁄8 and 
1⁄4 inch (3 and 6 mm) thick (about 10 slices) 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) reduced-sodium soy sauce 
(if you cannot ﬁ  nd reduced-sodium, use 1 tablespoon 
[15 ml] water and 1 tablespoon [15 ml] soy sauce)
2 tablespoons (30 ml) liquid smoke
1⁄4 cup (68 g) ketchup
1⁄4 cup (68 g) brown sauce, such as HP
1⁄2 teaspoon hot sauce, or to taste
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure maple syrup
2 cloves garlic, mincedDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Place the tofu slices in a shallow baking dish. Combine 
the remaining ingredients in a small bowl. Pour the mari-nade over the tofu, making sure every side gets coated.
Bake for 20 minutes. Lower the temperature to 250°F 
(120°C, or gas mark 
1⁄2). Flip the tofu slices and bake for 
20 minutes longer. Flip again, brushing the tofu slices with the marinade that is on the sides of the baking dish. Bake for 20 minutes longer. Repeat ﬂ  ipping and brush-
ing 3 more times in 20-minute intervals, baking for 60 minutes longer, or until the marinade is gone and the tofu looks suitably dry without being shriveled or burnt. 
Enjoy hot, at room temperature, or cold. Delicious as is 
or in sandwiches. 
YIELD:  About 10 slices 
RECIPE NOTE
For a quick and delicious snack or meal, spread a 
generous amount of Spinach Pesto (page 210) in a cut-up fresh and crusty artisan bread roll. Top with as many tofu jerky slices as you want, along with fresh baby spinach leaves or any other tender greens, and have a big bite.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 162CRISPY PEPPERONI BITES
These are like mini crispy pizzas, perfect for a ﬁ  lling snack or as a side dish 
to a big whopping mixed and crunchy vegetable salad. Use your favorite marinara 
instead if you prefer. The one offered here is super simple but does the job perfectly! 
FOR THE SIMPLE MARINARA:
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (142 g) 
diced ﬁ  re-roasted or regular tomatoes
2 teaspoons (5.5 g) tomato paste
1 clove garlic, minced
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon capers, with brine (optional)
1⁄2 teaspoon dried oregano
Pinch of salt
Pinch of ground pepper
Pinch of red pepper ﬂ  akes
FOR THE CRUST:
11⁄2 cups (180 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄3 cup (75 g) cold nondairy butter
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) any nondairy milk, as needed
1⁄2 recipe TVP Pepperoni (page 214)
1⁄3 cup (37 g) shredded nondairy cheese (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the marinara:  Combine all the ingredients in 
a blender and process until smooth. Set aside.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Coat 
6 jumbo mufﬁ  n cups with cooking spray. 
To make the crust:  Combine the ﬂ  our, baking powder, 
butter, salt, and pepper in a f ood processor. Pulse a few 
times until the butter is cut throughout the ﬂ  our. Slowly 
add the milk, pulsing while drizzling it in, until a dough forms. Divide the dough into 6 equal portions. Shape each into a disk. Press down into the bottom of each muf-ﬁ n cup, bringing the edges halfway up the cup.
Place 1 tablespoon (15 g) pepperoni on top of each crust. 
Top with 1 tablespoon (15 ml) marinara. Top with another 1 tablespoon (15 g) pepperoni. Top with 1 scant tablespoon (6 g) optional cheese.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until the edges of the crust are 
light golden brown. Carefully remove from the mufﬁ  n 
pan and enjoy.
YIELD:  6 pepperoni bites
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Serve with Salade Russe (page 170); 
mixed greens, shredded carrots, or sliced roasted beets dressed with 
Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette (page 209); or any thick vegetable soup.OVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 163ANTS ON A LOG IN A BOWL
GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
Enjoy this with Piggies in a Blanket (page 112).
SPICY CHICKPEAS
QUICK AND EASY
Spice is nice, and ﬁ  lling, too!INGREDIENTS:
1 pound (454 g) hearts of celery, 
trimmed and thinly chopped 
5 tablespoons (80 g) natural crunchy peanut butter
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) rice vinegar (replace 1 to 2 
tablespoons [15 to 30 ml] with either broth or 
lemon juice if you are sensitive to vinegar)
2 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon Sriracha, or to taste 
1⁄4 cup (40 g) raisins
1 tablespoon (15 ml) toasted sesame oil DIRECTIONS:
Place the celery in a colander and rinse well. Let drain 
while you prepare the sauce.
Combine all the remaining ingredients in a salad bowl. Add 
the celery. Stir well. Chill for 1 hour to let the ﬂ  avors meld.
YIELD:  4 servings
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
1 large red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded, and diced
1⁄4 cup (40 g) chopped red onion
2 tablespoons (20 g) minced shallot
4 cloves garlic, minced
2 cans (each 15 ounces, or 425 g) chickpeas, 
drained and rinsed
1 teaspoon ground ginger 
1 tablespoon (6 g) garam masala
2 teaspoons sambal oelek, or to taste
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) light coconut milk
1 tablespoon (15 ml) rice vinegar
11⁄2 teaspoons reduced-sodium soy sauce
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried cilantroDIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. Add 
the bell pepper, onion, shallot, and garlic and cook for 2 minutes. 
Add the chickpeas, ginger, garam masala, and sambal 
oelek and cook for 2 minutes longer, or until fragrant.
Stir in the coconut milk, vinegar, and soy sauce. Add dried 
cilantro (If you’d rather use fresh cilantro, sprinkle it on top upon serving, instead) Cook for 8 minutes, uncovered, until heated through. 
Pair this with quinoa, jasmine rice, black lentils, or 
steamed cubed potatoes and you’ve got yourself a beautifully complete meal.
YIELD:  4 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 164CHORIZO FLAUTAS
If you use corn tortillas, the name for these crunchy, delicate, and irresistibly 
ﬁ lled-then-fried tortillas magically switches from ﬂ autas  to taquitos —fancy that! 
If you want to avoid the fryer, though, these don’t disappoint when baked, either.
INGREDIENTS:
12 ounces (340 g) TVP Chorizo (page 216) or 
store-bought soy chorizo
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) salsa verde, store-bought or 
homemade (page 206), plus more for serving 
2 teaspoons (4.6 g) granulated onion
1 clove garlic, minced
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried cilantro
Six 7-inch (18-cm) ﬂ  our tortillas 
Vegetable oil for frying or nonstick 
cooking spray for bakingDIRECTIONS:
Combine the chorizo, 1⁄4 cup (60 ml) salsa, onion, garlic, 
and cilantro in a medium-size skillet. Brown for 5 minutes over medium-high heat. 
Place about 
1⁄4 cup (60 g) of the ﬁ  lling along one edge 
of each tortilla. Roll the tortillas closed and secure with toothpicks.
To fry:  Use a deep fryer, or ﬁ  ll a heavy, deep saucepan 
with 3 inches (7.5 cm) of vegetable oil. Heat to 350°F (175 °C). Fry 1 ﬂ  auta at a time, ﬂ  ipping over once, until 
golden brown on both sides, 2 to 4 minutes. Remove from the oil with a heat-proof slotted spoon. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining ﬂ  autas. Serve hot with extra salsa. 
To bake:  Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 
6). Place the ﬂ  autas on a nonstick baking sheet. Coat 
with cooking spray on both sides. Bake for 10 minutes, ﬂ ip over, and bake for 10 minutes longer, or until golden 
brown and crispy. Serve hot with extra salsa.
YIELD:  6 ﬂ autas
EAT YOUR VEGGIES!
Add some extra crunch, ﬁ  ber, vitamins, 
and overall good conscience to this meal by serving it alongside our Roasted Cauli-mole Salad (page 169).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 166BAKED ASPARAGUS 
WITH MUSHROOM SAUCE
A classy and traditional side dish sure to please the most discerning palates. Serve this 
alongside a nice savory protein, or serve family style at your next holiday get-together. The sauce 
is rich and ﬂ  avorful. We won’t tell anybody if you sop the extra up with a piece of bread. 
INGREDIENTS:
1 bunch asparagus, snapped at their 
natural weak point, ends discarded
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
1 medium-size yellow or white onion, roughly chopped
8 ounces (227 g) sliced button mushrooms
4 cloves garlic, thinly sliced
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth
2 tablespoons (15 g) nutritional yeast
2 tablespoons (16 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our mixed with 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water to make a slurry
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6).
Place the asparagus in an 8-inch (20-cm) square 
baking dish.
In a frying pan or skillet, melt the butter over medium-
high heat. Add the onion, mushrooms, and garlic. Sauté until translucent and fragrant, 5 to 7 minutes. 
Add the broth and bring to a boil. Stir in the nutritional 
yeast. Stir in the slurry to thicken, and remove from the heat. Stir in the sour cream. Season with salt and pepper. Pour the mixture over the asparagus.
Bake, uncovered, for 20 minutes, or until the desired 
tenderness.
YIELD:  4 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 167ROOT BEER BEANS
LOW FAT
Serve this bean-y goodness alongside Twice-Baked Potatoes (page 153), and stir some Creamy 
Cheesy Sauce (page 212) directly into your bowl. You may ﬁ  nd yourself diving headﬁ  rst to 
lick any remnants from the bowl. Are we speaking from experience? Maaaaybe . . .
INGREDIENTS:
3 cans (each 15 ounces, or 425 g) beans of choice (black 
beans, kidney beans, pinto beans), drained and rinsed 
12 ounces (355 ml) natural root beer (avoid brands that 
contain high-fructose corn syrup)
2 tablespoons (44 g) regular molasses
1 tablespoon (15 g) stone-ground mustard 
2 tablespoons (34 g) ketchup or tomato paste
1 teaspoon liquid smoke
1 teaspoon hot sauce, or to taste
3 cloves garlic, grated
2 tablespoons (10 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216, optional)
2 tablespoons (14 g) granulated onion or 1⁄3 cup (80 g) 
caramelized chopped onion (see page 122) DIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a medium-size saucepan. 
Bring to a boil. Lower the heat to medium and simmer, uncovered, for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Using a potato masher, only partially crush some of the beans to thicken the sauce.
YIELD:  6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 168CHEESY GARLIC MASHED POTATOES
GLUTEN FREE QUICK AND EASY
Mashed potatoes are good, but cheesy garlic mashed potatoes are simply fantastic!
GERMAN POTATO SALAD
This one tastes great warm or cold. Remember that it’s very important 
to caramelize those onions, because raw onions won’t give you the right ﬂ  avor.INGREDIENTS:
2 pounds (908 g) red potatoes, with skins
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1 tablespoon (18 g) white or yellow miso 
11⁄2 teaspoons maca powder (optional)
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil.
Cut the potatoes into chunks and add to the boiling water. 
Boil until fork-tender, 12 to 15 minutes. Drain, and return the potatoes to the pot.
Add all the remaining ingredients and mash with a potato 
masher. Don’t worry about lumps—they’re almost a requirement here!
YIELD:  6 servings
INGREDIENTS:
3 pounds (1362 g) red potatoes, cut into bite-size chunks
3 tablespoons (45 ml) canola or 
other mild-ﬂ  avored vegetable oil
2 cups (320 g) diced white or yellow onion
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) rice vinegar
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water
1⁄4 cup (40 g) diced scallion
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
1⁄2 cup (40 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216)
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the 
potatoes and boil until fork-tender, but still ﬁ  rm, about 
12 minutes.
While the potatoes are boiling, in a frying pan, heat the 
oil over medium-low heat. Add the onion and cook until very soft and caramelized, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for 3 minutes longer.
In a small bowl, whisk together the rice vinegar, water, 
scallion, sugar, and liquid smoke. Add to the onions. Cook, stirring constantly, until the sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes.
Drain potatoes and return to the pot. Pour the onion mix-
ture over the potatoes and toss to coat. Add the bacon bits and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper. Serve warm or cold.
YIELD:  8 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 169GREEN POTATOES
GLUTEN FREE QUICK AND EASY
We have been known to make just the dressing and use it over green salad 
or pasta, or mix it with rice. Sometimes we double the dressing recipe, and use half 
on the potatoes and reserve the rest for those other uses. For this one we leave 
the skin on the potatoes, but feel free to peel yours if that’s how you roll.
ROASTED CAULI-MOLE SALAD
GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
Enjoy this refreshing and rich salad with Haute Pockets (page 98), Scalloped 
Potato Pie (page 122), or Chorizo Flautas (page 164). Not all at the same time, though.INGREDIENTS:
3 pounds (1362 g) red potatoes, cut into bite-size chunks
1 ounce (28 g) baby spinach
11⁄2 ounces (42 g) cilantro, stems removed
1 shallot, chopped
2 cloves garlic, chopped
6 ounces (170 g) soft silken tofu, drained
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the 
potatoes and boil for 12 to 15 minutes, or until fork-tender. Drain and return to the pot.
In a blender or food proc essor, blend the remaining ingre-
dients together until smooth. Pour over the potatoes and gently toss. Serve hot or cold.
YIELD:  6 to 8 servings
INGREDIENTS:
1 medium-size head cauliﬂ  ower
4 cloves garlic, minced
3 tablespoons (45 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
3 tablespoons (45 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon ground black pepper
8 ounces (227 g) store-bought 
pico de gallo–ﬂ  avored guacamole 
1⁄4 cup (25 g) chopped scallion or (40 g) red onionDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 425°F (220°C, or gas mark 7). 
Trim, clean, and cut the cauliﬂ  ower into 1⁄2-inch (1.3-cm) 
thick slices, then cut widthwise. Place the cauliﬂ  ower, 
garlic, lemon juice, oil, salt, and pepper in a 9-inch (13-cm) baking dish.
Bake for 30 minutes, turning once halfway through, or 
until the cauliﬂ  ower is al dente. Remove from the oven 
and let cool.
Place the cauliﬂ  ower and all its juices in a large bowl; add 
the guacamole and scallion and stir to combine. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 170SALADE RUSSE
GLUTEN FREE
Creamy and tasty, this is the perfect accompaniment to Haute Pockets 
(page 98), Crispy Pepperoni Bites (page 162), or any sandwich.
INGREDIENTS:
6 cups (1.4 l) water
21⁄2 cups (375 g) diced red potatoes
11⁄2 cups (200 g) diced carrots
11⁄2 cups (200 g) frozen green peas
3 tablespoons (30 g) chopped red onion
1 teaspoon drained and minced capers
1⁄2 cup (112 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
Salt and pepper, to taste
Dried or fresh dill, to taste (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Bring the water to a boil in a medium-size pot. Add the 
potatoes and carrots. Boil for 8 minutes, or until the vegetables are fork-tender without being mushy. Add the peas and boil for 1 minute. Drain well, and let cool.
In the meantime, combine the onion, capers, mayonnaise, 
mustard, vinegar, salt, and pepper in a large bowl. Add the cooled veggies and toss to coat. 
Divide among 6 bowls and sprinkle each serving with 
a little dill for extra color and ﬂ  avor.
YIELD:  6 servings
DELI-STYLE MACARONI SALAD
QUICK AND EASY
So traditional, no one will ever know it’s vegan.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (224 g) vegan mayonnaise
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) apple cider vinegar
2 tablespoons (30 g) Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon dried dill or 1 tablespoon (3 g) fresh
Salt and pepper, to taste
1 pound (454 g) elbow macaroni, prepared
1 bell pepper, cored, seeded, and diced
1 cup (160 g) diced red onion
1 cup (48 g) diced scallion or chives
1 cup (100 g) chopped celery1 cup (110 g) shredded carrot
1⁄4 cup (60 g) sweet pickle relish
DIRECTIONS:
Whisk together mayonnaise, vinegar, mustard, and dill. 
Season with salt and pepper.
Add the chopped veggies, relish, and dressing to the 
cooled pasta and toss to combine.
Keep refrigerated until ready to serve.
YIELD:  16 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 171EAST COAST MEETS WEST COAST 
PASTA SALAD
QUICK AND EASY
This pasta salad has a fairly traditional vinaigrette dressing, typical of East Coast styles. But then 
a bit of that Mediterranean fusion sneaks in from the West Coast in the form of big chunky veggies.
FOR THE DRESSING:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
2 tablespoons (30 g) Dijon mustard
2 tablespoons (42 g) agave nectar
Salt and pepper, to taste
FOR THE SALAD:
1 pound (454 g) spiral pasta, cooked 
according to package directions and cooled
6 ounces (170 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, drained, pressed, 
and crumbled to resemble feta
1 medium-size red onion, julienned
1 can (14 ounces, or 397 g) artichoke hearts, 
drained and quartered
2 cups (142 g) broccoli ﬂ  orets, lightly steamed or raw
1⁄2 cup (67 g) sliced black olives
1 pint (454 g) cherry tomatoes, halved
1⁄2 cup (56 g) pepperochinisDIRECTIONS:
To make the dressing:  Whisk all the dressing ingredients 
together in a small bowl and set aside.
To make the salad:  Toss all the salad ingredients to-
gether in a large salad bowl. Add the dressing and toss to coat. Refrigerate until ready to serve. 
YIELD:  12 to 16 servings
RECIPE NOTE
This salad is a great way to use up extra veggies you 
may have lying around. Carrots, cucumbers, shred-ded yellow squash, zucchini, you name—if it can be chopped, then it probably tastes good in this salad!HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 172SWEET PEPPERCORN COLESLAW
GLUTEN FREE QUICK AND EASY
This coleslaw takes the Sweet Potato Po’ Boys (page 86) to a whole new level. 
FOR THE SLAW:
1⁄2 head green cabbage, shredded
11⁄2 cups (162 g) shredded carrots
1⁄2 cup (80 g) raisins or dried cranberries (optional)
FOR THE DRESSING:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) plain soymilk
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄2 cup (112 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1 tablespoon (10 g) black peppercorns, 
coarsely ground or cracked
1 tablespoon (2 g) chopped fresh fennel leaf
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
Salt, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
To make the slaw:  Toss together the slaw ingredients in 
a large mixing bowl.
To make the dressing:  Add the soymilk to a small mixing 
bowl. Stir in the lemon juice and let sit for a few minutes. It will curdle and become like buttermilk. Whisk in the remaining ingredients.
Toss the slaw with the dressing and serve immediately.You can make this ahead of time, but if you do, keep the 
dressing separate and toss together just before serving.
YIELD:  8 servings
KALE WITH A KICK
Serve as is for a glorious side dish or use as an ingredient in Kale Bagels (page 187). 
INGREDIENTS:
1 bunch kale 
2 tablespoons (30 g) orange marmalade 
2 tablespoons (32 g) tahini 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) seasoned rice vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 ml) tamari
1 tablespoon (15 ml) olive or peanut oil
1 large clove garlic, minced
2 tablespoons (20 g) ﬁ  nely chopped shallot or scallion
1⁄2 teaspoon toasted sesame oil
1⁄4 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes DIRECTIONS:
Remove stems and ribs from kale. Clean thoroughly and 
chop into tiny pieces. Spin the kale to remove excess water. Set aside.
Combine the remaining ingredients in a large bowl. Using 
your hands, massage the dressing onto the kale to coat thoroughly and tenderize. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour, or until the kale is tender. Serve.
YIELD:  2 servings, about 2
1⁄2 cups (280 g)OVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 173EAT YOUR COLLARD GREENS!
QUICK AND EASY
This preparation makes it easy to enjoy dark leafy greens.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1 medium-size yellow onion, ﬁ  nely minced
2 tablespoons (30 g) minced garlic
2 tablespoons (30 ml) balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 g) mild Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes (optional)
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1 teaspoon agave nectar
3 bunches collard greens, 
torn from center vein into pieces
1 teaspoon toasted sesame seeds
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
In a large soup pot, melt the butter over medium-high 
heat. Add the onion and garlic, and sauté until translu-cent and fragrant, 3 to 5 minutes. 
Stir in the vinegar, mustard, red pepper ﬂ  ake, sesame oil, 
and agave. Add the greens, and toss to coat. Cook until wilted to desired tenderness. For al dente greens it’ll take 3 to 5 minutes.
Stir in the sesame seeds, season with salt and pepper, 
and serve. 
YIELD:  4 servings
FRITTER FRIED OKRA
Sliced frozen okra is already the perfect size for frying. Talk about convenient!
INGREDIENTS:
1 pound (454 g) frozen okra
1 cup (235 ml) full-fat coconut milk
1⁄2 cup (70 g) cornmeal
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our 
1⁄2 teaspoon paprika
1⁄2 teaspoon dried parsley
1⁄4 teaspoon ground black pepper
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
Vegetable oil, for fryingDIRECTIONS:
Place the frozen okra in a shallow dish. Pour the coconut 
milk over the okra, and let sit for about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the ﬂ  our mixture. Add the cornmeal, 
ﬂ our, paprika, parsley, pepper, and salt to a resealable 
plastic bag and shake to combine.
In a frying pan, pour the oil to a depth of 1 inch (2.5 cm) 
and heat over medium-high heat.
Drain the okra and place in the bag. Shake to coat.Add the okra to the pan in a single layer and fry for 3 to 
5 minutes, ﬂ  ipping halfway through, until golden and 
crispy. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat until all the pieces are fried and erve immediately.
YIELD:  4 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 175BACON ONION PUFFS
These taste great as an appetizer, or instead of garlic bread. Try to ﬁ  nd 
puff pastry that is not only vegan but also free of hydrogenated fats.
INGREDIENTS:
10 squares (6 × 6 inches, or 15 × 15 cm) vegan puff pastry
12 ounces (340 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄4 cup (40 g) ﬁ  nely diced white or yellow onion
3 tablespoons (18 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216)
3 tablespoons (9 g) ﬁ  nely chopped fresh or 
freeze-dried chives
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
1 teaspoon dried dill or 1 tablespoon (3 g) chopped fresh 
1 teaspoon liquid smoke
1 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, melted
Pinch of paprika
Pinch of garlic powder
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Thaw the puff pastry according to the package directions.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
In a small mixing bowl, combine the sour cream, onion, 
bacon bits, chives, garlic, dill, liquid smoke, and red pepper ﬂ  akes.
Add about 
1⁄4 cup (75 g) of ﬁ  lling to the center of 1 square 
of puff pastry. Using your ﬁ  ngertips, rub the edges of 
the square with water to moisten. Fold one corner over at a diagonal to the opposite corner to make a triangle. Using the tines of a fork, press the edges together to seal. Using a sharp knife, cut a few small slits in the top of the triangle. Brush the entire top with melted butter and sprinkle with paprika, garlic powder, salt, and pepper. Repeat with the remaining 9 squares.
Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden, puffy, and 
crispy. Let cool for a few minutes before serving.
YIELD:  10 puffsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 176POPCORN PEPPERS
QUICK AND EASY SOY FREE
If jalapeños are too spicy, we won’t tell anyone if you use your favorite pickles instead.
INGREDIENTS:
Vegetable oil, for frying
1⁄2 cup (70 g) cornmeal
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1⁄8 teaspoon ground black pepper
1⁄4 teaspoon paprika
1 cup (235 ml) vegan light-colored beer 
(go to www.barnivore.com to check 
the vegan-ocity of your beer)
40 to 50 slices jarred jalapeños, drained and patted dryDIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil to 350°F (180°C) in a deep fryer or pot. 
Have ready a plate lined with paper towels.
In a medium-size mixing bowl, whisk together the corn-
meal, ﬂ  our, salt, pepper, paprika, and beer until smooth. 
The batter should be like a thin pancake batter.
Dip each jalapeño ring into the batter and carefully drop 
into the hot oil. You can add quite a few to the pot at the same time, just make sure that they all have enough space to ﬂ oat around in the oil freely. Fry for about 3 minutes, 
or until golden brown and crispy. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to the paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat to dry all of the jalapeños.
Serve immediately.
YIELD:  40 to 50 pieces
CREAMED CORN WITH BACON
This rich, savory side dish pairs well with any meaty main course, 
especially I Would Do Anything for (Meat)loaf (page 101).
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) vegetable oil
2 medium-size yellow onions, thinly sliced
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons (30 ml) balsamic vinegar
2 cups (470 ml) plain soy creamer
1 pound (454 g) yellow corn kernels
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
10 slices vegan bacon, store-bought or 
homemade (page 216), cut into chunksDIRECTIONS:
Heat the vegetable oil in a stockpot over medium-low heat. 
Add the onions and salt. Toss to coat. Cover and cook for 
about 20 minutes, or until soft, translucent, and golden brown, stirring occasionally.
Uncover, add the balsamic vinegar, toss to coat, raise the 
heat to high. Cook 5 minutes longer, stirring constantly. 
Reduce the heat to medium and stir in the creamer. Add 
the corn. Bring to a simmer and simmer, uncovered, for 10 minutes. Remove from the heat. 
Stir in the sour cream and bacon pieces. Let sit for about 
10 minutes to thicken before serving.
YIELD:  8 servingsOVER-THE-TOP, TOTALLY TANTALIZING SIDES 177FRIED GREEN (OR YELLOW, 
OR RED) TOMATOES
The thing about green tomatoes is that, unless you have your own garden, it’s nearly impossible to get 
’em green! That’s why we say to throw caution to the wind and fry up some yellow and red tomatoes. 
Why not? Just make sure they aren’t too ripe, or the whole shebang will end up a big mushy mess.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) coconut milk
3⁄4 cup (60 g) panko bread crumbs
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 teaspoon pepper
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) olive oil, divided
3 medium-size, ﬁ  rm green (or yellow, or red) tomatoes, 
sliced into rounds about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) thickDIRECTIONS:
Set up a breading station. In a shallow dish, place the 
ﬂ our; in another, the coconut milk; and in a third, the 
panko mixed with the salt and pepper.
Heat 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil over high heat in 
a frying pan or cast-iron skillet.
Dip 1 slice of tomato into the ﬂ  our to coat, then into the 
coconut milk, then into the panko, then place in the oil. Repeat until you have about half of the slices in a single layer in your pan.
Fry for 3 to 5 minutes, or until golden, then ﬂ  ip and cook 
for 3 to 5 minutes longer. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat until all the slices are fried.
Serve immediately.
YIELD:  About 15 slices
SOUTHERN FRIED CABBAGE
QUICK AND EASY GLUTEN FREE
This Southern staple is traditionally prepared with bacon grease. We tend to think of our Earth 
Balance as better than bacon grease; besides, it’s cholesterol free! This side dish tastes great 
alongside Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak (page 32) and White Sausage Gravy (page 33).
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
1 head green cabbage, ﬁ  nely shredded
Salt and pepper, to taste
1⁄4 cup (24 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216, optional)DIRECTIONS:
Melt the butter in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add 
the liquid smoke, cabbage, salt, and pepper. Toss to coat and cook until wilted and limp, 5 to 7 minutes, stirring constantly.
Remove from the heat, stir in the bacon bits, and serve.
YIELD:  8 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 178CORNBREAD-STUFFED POBLANOS
You get the goodness of carbs and a clear conscience by packing 
it all in a vegetable, too! Munch on; you can thank us later.
INGREDIENTS:
2 poblano peppers, halved, 
seeded, cleaned, and patted dry
1⁄2 cup (112 g) reduced-fat vegan mayonnaise or 
(120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) salsa verde, 
store-bought or homemade (page 206) 
1 tablespoon (21 g) agave nectar
1⁄2 cup (70 g) cornmeal
1⁄2 cup (63 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon granulated onion
1⁄2 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
Nondairy milk, as needed
1⁄4 cup (28 g) shredded vegan cheddar cheese (optional)
Pico de gallo, store-bought or homemade (page 206), or 
more salsa verde, for servingDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly 
grease a baking sheet with oil or cooking spray. Place the poblanos on the prepared sheet.
In a large bowl, combine the mayonnaise, salsa, and 
agave. Add the cornmeal, ﬂ  our, granulated onion, salt, 
and baking powder. Stir until combined. Add the milk as needed if the batter is too thick.
Spoon the mixture into the poblanos and smooth the top. 
Bake for 30 minutes, or until the poblanos are tender and a toothpick inserted into the cornbread comes out clean. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon (7 g) of the cheese on each poblano half during the last 5 minutes of baking. Serve topped with pico de gallo, salsa verde, or a dollop of nondairy sour cream.
YIELD:  2 servings
RECIPE NOTE
If you cannot ﬁ  nd poblano peppers, consider using 
regular green bell peppers. Keep in mind that they are usually larger and wider than poblanos, so try to ﬁ  nd 
the smallest ones available at the market.CHAPTER 5
The Bottomless Bread Basket 
Worth-your-while yeast breads, biscuits, and other 
flour-ishing goods.
We love our carbohydrates, and we’re not afraid to say it! If you are brand new to working with 
yeast, fear not! Just follow these tips and you will be a pro in no time: 
• Be sure to bring ingredients to room temperature.
• Proof the yeast by adding it to the liquid and sweetener. To do so, simply heat the liquid to luke-
warm (about 100°F [38°C]), then stir in the yeast and sweetener. Let stand for a few minutes until bubbles and foam form, then proceed with the recipe directions. If the yeast does not bubble and foam, start again with a newer package of yeast.
• Consider adding 2 tablespoons (18 g) vital wheat gluten per 4 cups (480 g) ﬂ  our to yeast breads, 
especially when using whole wheat ﬂ  our. It makes for a better elasticity and a lighter texture.
• If your dough springs back and is impossible to shape when you deﬂ  ate it after the ﬁ  rst rise, give 
it an additional 5 to 10 minutes of resting time so that it becomes a bit more cooperative.
• Check for doneness by wearing oven mitts, carefully inverting the loaf or rolls, and tapping the 
bottom: a hollow sound means the bread is ready to be taken out of the oven. Alternatively, use an instant-read thermometer and check that the temperature in the center of the bread is approximately 200°F (93°C).HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 182CINNAMON SWIRL BREAD
This sweet bread is fantastic for breakfast, and serves as an amazing base for French toast.
FOR THE DOUGH:
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk, heated to lukewarm
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar, divided
11⁄2 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 tablespoons (30 ml) plus 1⁄2 teaspoon 
vegetable oil, divided
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
1⁄4 cup (36 g) vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
FOR THE SWIRL:
1⁄3 cup (73 g) packed brown sugar 
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter, meltedDIRECTIONS:
To make the dough:  Combine the soymilk, water, and 
1 tablespoon (13 g) of the sugar in a small bowl. Stir in the yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil to the mixture.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  ours, cinnamon, remaining 
sugar, and salt. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry, mix-ing until combined.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 
8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our as needed if the dough is too sticky. This is 
a dry, stiff dough, but it should still be workable. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the remaining 
1⁄2 teaspoon 
oil. Place the dough in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes.
To make the swirl:  Combine the swirl ingredients into 
a paste. Set aside.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and place on a lightly ﬂ  oured 
surface. Knead for 3 to 5 minutes. 
Roll the dough into a rectangle 8 inches (20 cm) wide by 
24 inches (60 cm) long. Spread the cinnamon paste thinly and evenly onto the dough. Starting at the short end, tightly roll up the dough. Place the rolled-up dough, seam side down, into an 8 × 4-inch (20 × 10-cm) loaf pan. Let 
rise for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the outer crust is 
golden brown and hard to the touch. Let cool on a wire rack before slicing.
YIELD:  1 loaf
RECIPE NOTE
Interested in taking this bread to the next level of 
awesomeness? Simply press down 1⁄2 cup (80 g) raisins 
and/or 1⁄2 cup (54 g) chopped pecans into the rolled-out 
dough, fold it into thirds lengthwise to cover the raisins and nuts, and use a rolling pin to roll it back into approxi-mately the original rectangle size. Then proceed with the instructions to spread the cinnamon paste onto the dough and roll up.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 184JULIETTE BRIOCHE
SOY FREE
Buttery, light, and reminiscent of brioche, this coconut-based bread will have you 
coming back for more. And more. The good news is that the ﬂ  avor of coconut is barely 
noticeable, for all you coconut haters of the world. We know you’re out there.
INGREDIENTS:
2⁄3 cup (160 ml) coconut cream, 
heated to lukewarm (see note)
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1⁄4 cup (48 g) Sucanat
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, divided, 
plus more as needed
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon oilDIRECTIONS:
Combine the coconut cream and water in a medium-size 
bowl. Add the Sucanat and yeast and stir to combine. Let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
In a large bowl, combine 2 cups (250 g) of the ﬂ  our and 
the salt. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry. Add the remaining 1 cup (125 g) ﬂ  our as needed.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 8 to 
10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our, a little at a time, if the dough is too sticky. 
Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the dough 
hook. The kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap, and let rise for 90 minutes.
Lightly coat an 8 × 4-inch (20 × 10-cm) loaf pan with 
cooking spray. Gently deﬂ  ate the dough. Place the dough 
in the pan. Let rise in a warm place for 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Bake for 35 minutes, or until golden brown on top. Remove 
from the pan and let cool on a wire rack. Best when eaten on baking day.
YIELD:  1 loaf
RECIPE NOTE
If you cannot ﬁ  nd coconut cream, replace it and 
the water with regular or even light coconut milk.THE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 185SUPER-TENDER 
WHOLE WHEAT BAGELS 
SOY FREE
The hemp seeds provide a bit of crunch in the super-tender crumb of this bread.
INGREDIENTS:
14 ounces (414 ml) light coconut milk, heated to lukewarm
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure maple syrup
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder
2 teaspoons active dry yeast
31⁄2 cups (420 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  our, 
plus more as needed
1⁄4 cup (40 g) shelled hemp seeds
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon oil 
8 cups (1.9 l) water, for boiling bagels
1⁄2 cup (110 g) baking soda DIRECTIONS:
Combine the coconut milk, syrup, maca powder, and yeast 
in a bowl. Let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
Combine the 3
1⁄2 cups (420 g) ﬂ  our, seeds, and salt in a 
large bowl. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 8 to 
10 minutes, adding more ﬂ  our as needed, until the dough 
is smooth and pliable. Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ tted with the dough hook. The kneading time will be the 
same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap, and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough. Divide it into 8 equal portions; 
shape into rounds by pulling at the dough from the sides onto the bottom. Insert your thumb into the center of each dough ball, and twirl the dough around it until the hole reaches about 1
1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) in size. Let rest for 
15 minutes.
Bring the water to a boil in a large pot. Add the baking 
soda slowly: the mixture will bubble up. Lower the heat to a gentle boil.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). Line 
2 large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. 
Place 4 bagels at a time in the saucepan and simmer 
for 1 minute, using a spoon to gently submerge the bagels occasionally. 
Scoop out the bagels with a slotted spoon. Place on a 
wire rack to drain. Repeat with the remaining 4 bagels. Transfer to the prepared baking sheets.
Bake for 20 minutes, or until the bagels are golden brown 
and sound hollow when the bottom is tapped. Let cool on a wire rack.
YIELD:  8 bagelsTHE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 187KALE BAGELS
LOW FAT
These green-speckled bagels make it easy to add a little extra roughage to your diet. 
Even the veggie haters of the household will ﬁ  nd themselves smitten with these.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm 
1 tablespoon (12 g) active dry yeast
2 cups (225 g) packed Kale with a Kick (page 172)
6 cups (720 g) bread ﬂ  our, divided
11⁄2 teaspoons ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon oil
8 cups (1.9 l) water, for boiling bagels
1⁄2 cup (110 g) baking sodaDIRECTIONS:
Combine the water and yeast in a medium-size bowl. Let 
sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Stir in the kale.
In a large bowl, combine 4 cups (480 g) of the ﬂ  our and 
the salt. Stir in the kale mixture. Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ oured surface and knead for 8 to 10 minutes, adding the 
remaining 2 cups (240 g) ﬂ  our as needed, until the dough 
is smooth and pliable. Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ tted with the dough hook. The kneading time will be the 
same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap, and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough. Divide into 8 equal portions; 
shape into rounds by pulling at the dough from the sides onto the bottom. Insert your thumb into the center of each dough ball, and twirl the dough around it until the hole reaches about 1
1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) in size. Let rest for 
15 minutes.
Bring the water to a boil in a large pot. Add the baking 
soda slowly: the mixture will bubble up. Lower the heat to a gentle boil.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Line 
2 large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. 
Place 4 bagels at a time in the pot and simmer for 
1 minute, using a spoon to gently submerge the bagels occasionally. Scoop out the bagels with a slotted spoon. Place on a wire rack to drain. Repeat with the remaining 4 bagels. Transfer to the prepared baking sheets.
Bake for 24 minutes, or until the bagels are golden brown 
and sound hollow when the bottom is tapped. Let cool on a wire rack.
YIELD:  8 bagelsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 188SWEET WHOLE-WHEAT RYE BREAD
SOY FREE LOW FAT
Why buy boring sandwich bread when you can bake your own? 
Turn everyday brown bag lunches into something homemade with love!
INGREDIENTS:
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) water, heated to lukewarm, divided
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
11⁄2 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 tablespoons (44 g) molasses
2 tablespoons (42 g) agave nectar
2 cups (240 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  our, 
plus more as needed
2 cups (240 g) dark rye ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon salt
1⁄2 teaspoon olive oilDIRECTIONS:
Combine 1 cup (235 ml) of the water and sugar in a small 
bowl. Stir in the yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Add the molasses and agave to  the yeast mixture.
In a large bowl, combine the ﬂ  ours and salt. Stir the wet 
ingredients into the dry, mixing until combined, adding the remaining 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) water as needed, 1 table-
spoon (15 ml) at a time, until the dough comes together.
Turn out the dough onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and 
knead for 8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pli-able, adding more white whole wheat ﬂ  our as needed if 
the dough is too sticky. Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ tted with the dough hook. The kneading time will be the 
same, until the dough forms a ball.
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone 
baking mat. Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and place on a 
lightly ﬂ  oured surface. Knead for 3 to 5 minutes. Shape 
the dough into an oblong loaf and place on the prepared baking sheet. Let rise for 30 minutes. Using a sharp knife, carefully cut a few slits into the top of the loaf.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4).Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until the outer crust is dark 
golden brown and hard to the touch. Let cool completely before cutting into slices ﬁ  t for sandwiches.
YIELD:  1 loafRECIPE NOTE
For supersoft bread, place the loaf inside a plastic 
bag while still warm. The outer crust will turn soft and pliable.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 190IRISH SODA BREAD
The problem with large soda breads is that it can be tricky to enjoy them 
while they’re still fresh. Individual soda breads to the rescue! The outer crust 
allows the breads to remain fresher, but you will most likely not get to notice because 
these babies will ﬂ  y off the table faster than you can say, “Kiss me, I’m Irish.”
INGREDIENTS:
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) unsweetened soymilk, 
plus more as needed
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white balsamic vinegar
22⁄3 cups (320 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarch
1 tablespoon (7 g) caraway seeds 
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter 
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt, or to taste
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking sodaDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 425°F (220°C, or gas mark 7). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
In a small bowl, combine the soymilk and vinegar: it will 
curdle and become like buttermilk.
In a large bowl, using a fork, combine the ﬂ  our, corn-
starch, caraway seeds, butter, salt, and baking soda. Stir in the buttermilk mixture. If the dough is too dry, add a little extra milk until it is more manageable.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead a little 
to assemble. Divide the dough into 4 equal portions. Pat down with dampened hands, if needed. Place on the prepared baking sheet; lightly coat the tops with cooking spray.
Bake for 16 minutes, or until the breads are golden brown 
and sound hollow when the bottom is tapped. Let cool on wire rack. 
YIELD:  4 small breads
RECIPE NOTE
Serve these individual soda breads alongside any soup 
or salad, or with Colcannon Patties (page 100) and a cold (vegan) brew.THE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 191BACON ONION BISCUITS
The usual biscuit-making guidelines are in force here: Use cold ingredients, 
do not overwork the dough, do eat a whole batch by yourself . . .
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) cold unsweetened plain soymilk
11⁄2 teaspoons white balsamic vinegar
11⁄2 cups (180 g) cold all-purpose ﬂ  our, 
plus more as needed 
1 tablespoon (5 g) imitation bacon bits, 
store-bought or homemade (page 216)
1 tablespoon (8 g) granulated onion
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt, or to taste
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄3 cup (75 g) cold nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (28 g) shredded mozzarella-type vegan cheese, 
such as Daiya (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
In a small bowl, combine the milk and vinegar: it will 
curdle and become like buttermilk. Set aside.
In a large bowl, combine the 1
1⁄2 cups (180 g) ﬂ  our, bacon, 
onion, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. Using your ﬁ ngertips or a fork, quickly cut in the butter. Add the but-
termilk mixture and stir with a fork until just combined. 
Turn out the dough onto a lightly ﬂ  oured counter and 
add up to 3 tablespoons (23 g) extra ﬂ  our on top of the 
dough, kneading a few times until just incorporated and not too sticky. Pat down to about 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick. Cut out six 2-inch (5-cm) wide biscuits. Place the biscuits on the prepared baking sheet. Sprinkle with the cheese.
Bake for 12 minutes, or until golden brown. Let cool on 
a wire rack.
YIELD:  6 biscuits
RECIPE NOTE
Serve these freshly baked and still warm alongside a 
big bowl of your favorite comforting vegetable- and therefore vitamin-ﬁ  lled soup.THE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 193SOFT PEANUT BUTTER PRETZELS 
Shape these babies whichever way you prefer: It’s fun, exciting, and most 
important, delicious! Dip them in Mustard Sauce (page 207) for added oomph.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) nondairy milk, heated to lukewarm
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (128 g) natural creamy peanut butter 
11⁄2 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, divided
1 cup (120 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  our, 
plus more as needed
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon oil
8 cups (1.9 l) water, for boiling pretzels
1⁄2 cup (110 g) baking soda
Coarse kosher salt, for sprinklingDIRECTIONS:
In a medium-size bowl, combine the milk, sugar, and 
peanut butter until emulsiﬁ  ed. Stir in the yeast and let 
sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
Combine 1
3⁄4 cups (219 g) of the all-purpose ﬂ  our, the 1 cup 
(120 g) whole wheat ﬂ  our, and salt in a large bowl. Stir the 
wet ingredients into the dry. 
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 
8 to 10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding the remaining 
1⁄4 cup (31 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our as 
needed until the dough is smooth and pliable. Add even more whole wheat ﬂ  our, a little at a time, if the dough is 
too sticky. Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the 
dough hook. The kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap, and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone 
baking mat. Gently deﬂ  ate the dough; divide into 6 equal 
portions. Roll each portion into a long rope (about 15 inch-es, or 46 cm) and twist into a traditional or more creative pretzel shape. Place the pretzels on the prepared baking sheet. Cover with plastic wrap and let rest for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Bring the water to a boil in a large pot. Add the baking 
soda slowly: the mixture will bubble up. Lower the heat to medium. Place 2 pretzels at a time in the saucepan, and let boil for 1 minute, using a spoon to gently submerge the pretzels occasionally. Scoop out the pretzels with a slotted spoon. Place on a wire rack to drain. Repeat with the remaining 4 pretzels. Transfer to the prepared baking sheet. Sprinkle with the salt.
Bake for 14 minutes, or until the pretzels are golden brown 
and sound hollow when the bottom is tapped. Best enjoyed fresh. Toast any leftovers before enjoying.
YIELD:  6 pretzelsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 194AVOCADO ROLLS
SOY FREE
The avocado ﬂ  avor is rather subtle in these bunlike rolls (perfect for Mexican-style 
burgers!), and the guacamole gives a beautiful texture to this ﬂ  uffy bread. Simply 
bypass the hot sauce and garlic if you want to use this recipe in sweet applications.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (120 g) prepared guacamole
11⁄2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 cup (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
3 tablespoons (63 g) agave nectar
21⁄2 teaspoons (12.5 ml) hot sauce (optional)
2 cloves garlic, minced
Zest of 1 lemon
1 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
4 cups (500 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, divided, 
plus more as needed
1⁄2 teaspoon oilDIRECTIONS:
Combine the guacamole, yeast, water, and agave in a 
medium-size bowl. Let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Add the hot sauce, garlic, and lemon zest and stir to combine.
In a large bowl, combine the salt and 3 cups (375 g) of the 
ﬂ our. Add the wet ingredients to the dry, and start mixing. 
Add the remaining 1 cup (125 g) ﬂ  our as needed.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 8 to 
10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our, a little at a time, if the dough is too sticky. 
Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the dough 
hook. The kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough in 
the bowl and gently turn to coat with oil. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone 
baking mat. Gently deﬂ  ate the dough. Divide into 6 equal 
portions. Shape into rolls. Place on the prepared baking sheet, loosely cover with plastic wrap, and let rise for 45 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Remove the plastic wrap from the rolls. Bake for 26 min-
utes, or until the rolls are golden brown and sound hollow when the bottom is tapped. Let cool on a wire rack.
YIELD:  6 rollsTHE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 195SCARBOROUGH FAIR BUNS
SOY FREE
These buns are the perfect size for paninis and burgers, and of course for enjoying 
while dancing around the house to your favorite Simon and Garfunkel records.
INGREDIENTS:
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) water, heated to lukewarm, divided
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
41⁄2 teaspoons (14 g) active dry yeast
3 tablespoons (45 ml) olive oil, divided
4 cups (500 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
2 teaspoons (12 g) salt
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried parsley
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried sage
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried rosemary
1 tablespoon (2 g) dried thyme
1 tablespoon (7 g) garlic powder DIRECTIONS:
Combine 1 cup (235 ml) of the water and the sugar in a 
small bowl. Stir in the yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Stir in 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil and the remaining 
1⁄2 cup 
(120 ml) water.
In a large bowl, combine the 4 cups (500 g) ﬂ  our, salt, 
parsley, sage, rosemary, and thyme. Stir the wet ingredi-ents into the dry, mixing until combined. 
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 
8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our as needed if the dough is too sticky. Alterna-
tively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the dough hook. The 
kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with 
1⁄2 teaspoon of the oil. Place 
the dough in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and tun out onto a lightly 
ﬂ oured surface. Knead for 3 to 5 minutes.
Divide the dough into 8 equal pieces. Roll each piece into 
a ball, and then ﬂ  atten into a disk shape about 4 inches 
(10 cm) wide × 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick. Place on the prepared 
baking sheet. Brush the top of each bun with the remain-ing 2
1⁄2 teaspoons olive oil and then sprinkle with the 
garlic powder. 
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until golden brown. Let cool 
on a wire rack.
YIELD:  8 bunsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 196WHITE PANINI ROLLS
SOY FREE LOW FAT
These rolls are plain and simple—a nice neutral backdrop for the delicious 
ﬂ avors you will sandwich between them. They work perfectly in place of a bun 
for veggie burgers, and turn an everyday PB & J into a gourmet masterpiece.
INGREDIENTS:
11⁄2 cups (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm, divided
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
3 envelopes (each 1⁄4 ounce, or 7g) active dry yeast
4 cups (500 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
2 teaspoons salt
1⁄2 teaspoon olive oilDIRECTIONS:
Combine 1 cup (235 ml) of the water and the sugar in a 
small bowl. Stir in the yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
In a large bowl, combine the 4 cups (500 g) ﬂ  our and salt. 
Stir in the yeast mixture, mixing until combined, adding the remaining 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) warm water as needed, 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) at a time. 
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and knead for 
8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our as needed if the dough is too sticky. Alterna-
tively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the dough hook. The 
kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with the oil. Place the dough 
in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat.
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and turn out onto a lightly 
ﬂ oured surface. Knead for 3 to 5 minutes.
Transfer the dough to the prepared baking sheet and 
shape into a rectangle about 8 × 14 inches (20 × 35 cm). 
Using a pizza roller or a pastry cutter, cut into 6 or 8 even pieces (depending on the size you want) but do not sepa-rate. Dust lightly with ﬂ  our. Cover loosely with a dish towel 
and let rest for 20 minutes.
Bake for about 25 minutes, or until just beginning to 
turn golden.
YIELD:  6 to 8 rollsTHE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 197PINTO BEAN TORTILLA ROLLS
SOY FREE
You’ll probably want to eat these scrumptious rolls with a nice scoop 
of chili—just beware of the beans striking back with a vengeance!
INGREDIENTS:
Scant 4 cups (110 g) tortilla chips
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) pinto beans, 
drained and rinsed
1 tablespoon (15 ml) adobo sauce
1 tablespoon (15 g) chopped chipotle chile
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1 tablespoon (7 g) granulated onion
2 tablespoons (30 ml) peanut oil
1 heaping teaspoon active dry yeast
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, divided
1 cup (120 g) white whole wheat ﬂ  ourDIRECTIONS:
Combine the chips, beans, adobo sauce, and chipotle in 
a food processor. Process until mostly ground. Transfer to a large bowl. 
Add the salt, water, onion, oil, and yeast. Stir and let sit 
for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
Add 1 cup (125 g) of the all-purpose ﬂ  our and the whole 
wheat ﬂ  our; stir with a rubber spatula, “stabbing” at 
the dough for about 4 minutes, adding the remaining 1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our as needed. The dough 
will become a bit less sticky as you do this. Cover and let rise for 2 hours.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone 
baking mat. Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and divide into 
6 equal portions. Shape into rolls. Place the rolls on the prepared sheet. Let rise for 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Bake 
for 30 minutes, or until the rolls sounds hollow when the bottom is tapped. Let cool on a wire rack. 
YIELD:  6 rollsTHE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 199SPELT FLOUR TORTILLAS
Who needs store-bought ﬂ  our tortillas when it’s such a breeze to make them yourself? 
Find out how to turn these into chips in the Mucho Macho Nachos (page 148) recipe.
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (240 g) light spelt ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) nondairy creamer or coconut milk, 
heated to lukewarm
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes or 1⁄4 teaspoon 
ground pepper, or to taste (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the 2 cups (240 g) ﬂ  our and baking powder in 
a large bowl. Add the remaining ingredients, stirring with a fork. Switch to using a rubber spatula and gather the dough in the center of the bowl. Cover and let rest for 15 minutes.
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface, gather the dough 
into a ball, and knead gently about 10 times, adding more ﬂ our as needed. You should need about 
1⁄4 cup (30 g), but 
that will depend on humidity and ﬂ  our quality. Divide into 
12 equal portions, cover with a plastic wrap, and let rest for 10 minutes.
Sprinkle more ﬂ  our (a little at a time) onto the counter, 
each piece of dough, and the rolling pin, as needed. You may have to add more ﬂ  our on each side as you roll out 
the dough. You don’t want big pockets of ﬂ  our, so apply 
ﬂ our evenly a little at a time. Roll out the dough from the 
center outward, 1 piece at a time. You want it to be very thin and about 8 inches (20 cm) in diameter. 
Heat a dry 10-inch (25-cm) skillet over medium heat. 
Carefully transfer 1 rolled-out tortilla to the skillet. Cook for 45 seconds on each side: the tortilla will bubble up a bit. Keep a close eye on it and adjust the temperature and cooking time accordingly. While it is cooking, roll out an-other tortilla, remove the cooked one from the pan, and slide in the freshly rolled tortilla. Repeat the rolling-out and cooking process until all the tortillas are cooked. 
YIELD:  12 small tortillasHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 200SKILLET CORNBREAD
Onions, herbs, and garlic take already hearty cornbread to a whole new 
savory place we never want to leave. We’re happy and hungry that way!
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened plain soymilk
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, melted and cooled, 
plus 1 extra tablespoon (14 g) for the skillet
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 cup (5 g) chopped fresh cilantro
1 tablespoon (7 g) granulated onion
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, store-bought or 
homemade (page 211), or plain soy yogurt 
1⁄2 teaspoon pepper
2 cloves garlic, minced
11⁄2 cups (180 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
3⁄4 cup (105 g) cornmeal
1 tablespoon (12 g) baking powderDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). Place 
a dry 8-inch (20-cm) cast-iron skillet in the oven as it preheats.
Combine the milk, melted butter, salt, cilantro, onion, 
sour cream, pepper, and garlic in a large bowl. Sift the ﬂ our, cornmeal, and baking powder on top. Stir until just 
combined.
Place the remaining 1 tablespoon (14 g) butter in the hot 
skillet, brushing it all over. Pour the batter into the skillet.
Bake for 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the 
center comes out clean. Remove from the skillet. Let cool on wire rack.
YIELD:  6 to 8 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 202GARLIC KNOTS
For great pizza recipes using this dough as the crust, see Roasted Broccoli and Garlic 
Pizza (page 143), Deep-Dish Pizza Pie (page 144), and Pesto con Gusto Pizza (page 145). 
Consider swapping out the garlic powder for onion powder in pizza crusts, too.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
11⁄2 teaspoons (6 g) active dry yeast
21⁄2 to 3 cups (312 to 375 g) all-purpose or bread ﬂ  our, 
plus more as needed
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons (16 g) garlic powder, divided
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter, softened, 
plus 2 tablespoons (28 g), melted
2 tablespoons (15 g) minced garlic
1⁄4 teaspoon dried basil
1⁄4 teaspoon paprikaDIRECTIONS:
Combine the water and sugar in a small bowl. Stir in the 
yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active.
In a large bowl, combine 2
1⁄2 cups (312 g) of the ﬂ  our, salt, 
and 1 tablespoon (8 g) of the garlic powder. Add the yeast mixture and olive oil and mix until combined. 
Turn out onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface (or use a stand 
mixer ﬁ  tted with the dough hook) and knead for 8 
minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our as needed if the dough is too sticky. Place the 
dough in a large, oiled bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough. On a well-ﬂ  oured or nonstick 
surface, roll the dough into a 8 × 12-inch (20 × 30-cm) 
rectangle. Spread the softened butter evenly over the dough, then sprinkle on the minced garlic, dried basil, and paprika. 
Using a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut the rectangle into 
twelve 1 × 8-inch (2.5 × 20-cm) strips. Carefully tie each 
strip into a simple knot, keeping the buttered side inside. Place on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat and cover loosely with plastic wrap. Let rise for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5).
Bake for 15 minutes. Carefully remove from the oven 
and brush each knot with the melted butter and sprinkle with the remaining 1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder. Bake for 5 to 6 minutes longer, or until golden. Let cool on a wire rack.
YIELD:  12 knots
RECIPE NOTE
Use bread ﬂ  our in this recipe for a great pizza crust; 
just add up to 1 extra cup (125 g) ﬂ  our until the dough 
is smooth and pliable. Let rise for 60 minutes. 
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and shape into a large rectangle, 
then and place on a lightly greased baking sheet. Top with the desired pizza toppings, and bake for 20 to 24 minutes in a 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6) oven, or until the edges are golden brown.THE BOTTOMLESS BREAD BASKET 203SUN-DRIED TOMATO, GARLIC, 
AND BASIL FLATBREAD
SOY FREE
Bake this ﬂ  atbread and cut it into sandwich-size squares. It makes a mean 
panini, an even meaner grilled cheese, and the meanest pizza crust!
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) water, heated to lukewarm
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
11⁄2 teaspoons (6 g) active dry yeast
1⁄4 cup (60 g) ﬁ  nely diced sun-dried tomatoes, 
packed in oil
1 tablespoon (15 g) minced garlic
6 tablespoons (90 ml) plus 1 teaspoon olive oil, divided
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our, plus more as needed
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
1⁄8 teaspoon freshly cracked pepper
6 leaves fresh basil, ﬁ  nely choppedDIRECTIONS:
Combine the water with sugar in a small bowl. Stir in the 
yeast and let sit for a few minutes until bubbles appear, to ensure the yeast is active. Stir in the sun-dried tomatoes, garlic, and 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the olive oil.
In a large bowl, combine the 2 cups (250 g) ﬂ  our, salt, 
pepper, and basil. Stir the wet ingredients into the dry, mixing until combined. 
Turn out the dough onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and 
knead for 8 minutes, until the dough is smooth and pliable, adding more ﬂ  our as needed if the dough is too 
sticky. Alternatively, use a stand mixer ﬁ  tted with the 
dough hook. The kneading time will be the same, until the dough forms a ball. 
Lightly coat a large bowl with 
1⁄2 teaspoon of the oil. Place 
the dough in the bowl and gently turn to coat. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise until doubled in size, 60 to 90 minutes. 
Gently deﬂ  ate the dough and place on a lightly ﬂ  oured 
surface. Knead for 3 to 5 minutes.
Press the dough out into a rectangle about 10 × 16 inches 
(25 × 60 cm) and about 
3⁄8 inch (1 cm) thick, using your 
ﬁ ngertips. (Or into a rectangle that will ﬁ  t on your baking 
sheet.) Let rest for 20 to 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). 
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking sheet.
Brush 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the olive oil evenly all 
over the dough. Place the oiled side of the bread face down on the baking sheet, and brush the remaining 2 tablespoons (30 ml) oil onto the other side.
Bake for 18 to 22 minutes, or until ﬁ  rm and just beginning 
to brown. Let cool completely before cutting into squares.
YIELD:  8 squaresCHAPTER 6
Condiments, Sauces, and 
Other Staples
Luscious items, indispensable odds and ends, all 
united and eager to give a little extra je ne sais 
quoi to your dishes. 
Although some of these recipes may appear to be (and are) pretty basic, you will ﬁ  nd that the 
resulting ﬂ  avors prove themselves to be anything but. What better way is there to add pizzazz to 
your dishes than by preparing favorites such as salsa, pico de gallo, and even mozzarella (pictured at top right) in the comfort of your own home? And if you thought that the only way to enjoy your vegan chorizo or pepperoni was to buy them ready-made at the store, rest assured that it takes 
neither special skills nor complicated ingredients—and next to no time—to whip up a batch to 
complement tacos or pizza the best way we know how.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 206SALSA VERDE
SOY FREE GLUTEN FREE
Please use caution when handling chile peppers! Do not touch your eyes 
and wear gloves, if possible. Only use the habanero if you want mega heat. Use 
a second jalapeño if you want a little extra heat but aren’t ready to deal with that 
traitor, the habanero. Most important: Be sure to dig in, chip planted ﬁ  rmly in hand.
INGREDIENTS:
10 tomatillos, papery skins removed, rinsed, and halved
6 scallions, white and green parts, cleaned and trimmed
1⁄2 a lime
1 jalapeño pepper, left whole to roast
1 habanero pepper, left whole to roast (optional) 
for extra, EXTRA heat
1⁄2 teaspoon coarse sea salt
1 tablespoon (15 ml) peanut oil
1⁄2 cup (8 g) fresh cilantro DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). Place 
the tomatillos, cut side down, scallions, and peppers, cut side down, on a large baking sheet. Sprinkle with the salt and drizzle with the oil until well coated. Roast for 15 min-utes. Remove from the oven and let cool before handling.
Squeeze the juice of the lime into a blender jar. Carefully 
remove the ribs and seeds from the jalapeño and haba-nero. Add the cilantro and process until no large chunks remain. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 
YIELD:  2 cups (470 ml)
PICO DE GALLO
LOW FAT GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
We are of the ﬁ  rm belief that because this condiment is packed with veggies, it is 
more acceptable to munch on an honest amount of Mucho Macho Nachos (page 148).
INGREDIENTS:
4 ounces (113 g) ﬁ  re-roasted diced green chiles or 
1 small seeded and chopped jalapeño 
1 pound (454 g) Roma tomatoes, ﬁ  nely diced 
1 can (15 ounces, or 425 g) black beans, 
drained and rinsed
1 large clove garlic, minced
1⁄2 teaspoon ground cumin
Juice of 1⁄2 lime
Salt and pepper, to taste
4 scallions, chopped
1⁄3 cup (5 g) chopped fresh cilantroDIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a large bowl. Let stand for 
at least 1 hour in the refrigerator, for the ﬂ  avors to meld. 
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 
YIELD:  4 cups (960 g)CONDIMENTS, SAUCES, AND OTHER STAPLES 207MEXICAN-STYLE 
DIPPING SAUCE FOR CORN
QUICK AND EASY GLUTEN FREE
Grilled corn is a treat all on its own. Add this deliciously devilish Mexican-style 
dip (pictured on page 96) to take your corn on the cob to a whole new level!
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (224 g) vegan mayonnaise, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy cream cheese
2 tablespoons (30 ml) lime juice
1⁄2 teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1⁄2 teaspoon dried dill or 11⁄2 teaspoons, freshDIRECTIONS:
Whisk all the ingredients together (or blend in a blender) 
and keep refrigerated until ready to serve. Serve in a tall, wide-mouth glass for easy dipping.
YIELD:  1
1⁄2 cups (365 g)
MUSTARD SAUCE
QUICK AND EASY
A zippy sauce that is great as a dressing for potatoes 
or to dip Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels (page 193) into!
INGREDIENTS:
2⁄3 cup (160 g) nondairy unsweetened plain yogurt
2 tablespoons (30 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
2 tablespoons (30 g) mustard 
1 tablespoon (21 g) agave nectar
1⁄2 teaspoon granulated onion
Salt and pepper, to taste
Pinch of fresh or dried dill (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Whisk all the ingredients together in a medium-size bowl. 
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
YIELD:  
3⁄4 cup (180 ml)CONDIMENTS, SAUCES, AND OTHER STAPLES 209MAMOU’S MAGICAL VINAIGRETTE
QUICK AND EASY SOY FREE
There is no vegetable that doesn’t like being doused with the vinaigrette Celine’s 
mom has always made to dress her salads. It is also delicious on rice or potatoes. 
You may need to double the recipe depending on the vegetable or grain it goes on to.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (10 g) chopped scallion
1 clove garlic, pr essed (optional; adjust to taste, 
as this quantity makes for quite a garlicky ﬂ  avor)
1⁄4 teaspoon ground white pepper
Pinch of salt
1 teaspoon any mustard 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) ﬂ  axseed, grapeseed, or more olive oil
1⁄4 cup (6 g) chopped fresh parsley (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the scallion, garlic, pepper, salt, and mustard in 
a small bowl, stirring with salad servers. Be sure to crush the scallions while stirring to squeeze out all the ﬂ  avor. 
Emulsify with vinegar by drizzling it in while constantly 
stirring. Slowly drizzle in the oils, stirring constantly, until the vinaigrette is creamy.
If not using wilt-prone salad leaves, let marinate a bit so 
the ﬂ  avors develop. Store in a jar in the refrigerator for 
up to 1 week. 
YIELD:  
1⁄4 cup (60 ml)
SUPER EASY MARINADE 
QUICK AND EASY
This marinade works well on all sorts of things, from broccoli to tempeh, 
and makes an easy task of quick and simple weeknight dinners.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy sauce
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
1⁄4 teaspoon liquid smoke
2 tablespoons (30 g) Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon prepared horseradish
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon (21 g) agave nectar
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1⁄2 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon onion powderDIRECTIONS:
Whisk all the ingredients together. Store in an airtight 
container in the refrigerator until ready to use, up to 1 week. To use, pour over items to be marinated, toss to coat, and let sit for at least 20 minutes or up to overnight. 
YIELD:  
1⁄2 cup (120 ml)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 210WHISKEY BARBECUE SAUCE
Tangy and sassy and all that a barbecue sauce should be! If you are 
not a fan of whiskey, feel free to substitute with white vinegar.
INGREDIENTS:
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1 medium-size yellow onion, roughly chopped
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 can (16 ounces, or 448 g) tomato sauce
2 tablespoons (33 g) tomato paste
1⁄4 cup (80 g) grape jelly
1⁄2 cup (110 g) packed brown sugar
2 teaspoons sambal oelek or Sriracha sauce
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) whiskey
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
2 tablespoons (30 g) Dijon mustard
Salt and pepper, to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Heat the oil in a medium-size pot over medium-high heat. 
Add the onion and garlic and sauté for about 5 minutes, or until fragrant and translucent.
Add the tomato sauce, tomato paste, jelly, brown sugar, 
sambal oelek, whisky, liquid smoke, mustard, salt, and pepper. Stir to combine.
Bring to a boil, reduce the heat to a simmer, cover, and 
simmer over low heat for 30 minutes. Uncover and sim-mer for 5 to 10 minutes longer, until thick and saucy.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 weeks.
YIELD:  3 cups (864 g)
SPINACH PESTO
SOY FREE GLUTEN FREE
Put this green wonder to the test in our Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli (page 136) or 
Tempeh, Pepper and Spinach-Pesto Sandwich (page 84), to name but a few.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄3 cup (53 g) dry-roasted whole almonds
33⁄4 cups (113 g) fresh baby spinach leaves
1⁄4 cup (6 g) fresh basil
Salt and pepper, to taste
4 cloves garlic, minced
1⁄4 to 1⁄3 cup (60 to 80 ml) extra-virgin olive oilDIRECTIONS:
Grind the almonds in a food pr ocessor. Add the spinach, 
basil, salt, pepper, and garlic. Pulse until no whole leaves are left. Slowly drizzle in the oil while the machine is run-ning until the desired consistency is reached. Store in an airtight container for up to 1 week.
YIELD:  1 cup (240 g)CONDIMENTS, SAUCES, AND OTHER STAPLES 211TOFU MAYO
QUICK AND EASY
No need to worry if your local market doesn’t carry egg-free mayo—just whip up some of your own. 
This recipe works very well as a sandwich spread or in any of the mayonnaise-based dressings 
right here in this book. As long as you use gluten-free vinegar, this mayo is indeed gluten free.
INGREDIENTS:
7 ounces (198 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, dr ained and pressed
1⁄4 cup (35 g) ﬁ  nely ground raw cashews 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon (12 g) raw sugar or (21 g) agave nectar
11⁄2 teaspoons brown or Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon apple cider vinegar or rice wine vinegar
1⁄2 teaspoon sea salt
6 tablespoons (90 ml) canola oilDIRECTIONS:
Place the tofu, cashew powder, lemon juice, sugar, mus-
tard, vinegar, and salt in a blender or food processor and whirl away. Slowly drizzle in the oil while the machine is running until you reach the desired consistency. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
YIELD:  Almost 2 cups (470 ml)
TOFU SOUR CREAM
QUICK AND EASY
Although nondairy versions of traditionally dairy products are becoming more readily 
available, you may occasionally need to whip up a delicious batch of your own. 
INGREDIENTS:
7 ounces (198 g) extra-ﬁ  rm tofu, drained well and pressed
1⁄4 cup (28 g) ﬁ  nely ground raw cashews 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white rice vinegar
1 tablespoon (15 ml) freshly squeezed lemon or lime juice
1 tablespoon (18 g) white miso
1 tablespoon (15 ml) canola oilDIRECTIONS:
Place all the ingredients in a blender or food processor 
and blend until very, very smooth and creamy. Keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator until ready to use. Should last up to 1 week.
YIELD:  About 1
1⁄2 cups (355 ml)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 212CREAMY CHEESY SAUCE
QUICK AND EASY
If you ﬁ  nd the cost of good shredded vegan cheese a bit too steep for your 
pocketbook, here’s how to make it last a bit longer and even improve its taste. 
This deliciously rich and decadent sauce goes perfectly on top of pizzas, baked 
potatoes, and steamed veggies, and even stirred into chili or baked beans.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (112 g) shredded mozzarella- or cheddar-type 
(ﬂ avor depending on use) vegan cheese, such as Daiya
1 cup (235 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1 to 2 tablespoons (8 to 16 g) cornstarch, 
to desired thickness 
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder
1⁄4 teaspoon ground pepper, or to taste
1 clove garlic, minced
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, melted
Salt, to taste (optional)DIRECTIONS:
Combine the cheese, soymilk, cornstarch, maca powder, 
pepper, garlic, and butter in a microwave-safe dish. Using an immersion blender, blend until smooth and combined.
Microwave for 2 minutes, stir with a fork, and season with 
salt. Alternatively, combine the blended ingredients in a medium-size saucepan and cook over medium-high heat for 3 minutes, or until thickened, whisking constantly. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Gently reheat in a small saucepan before using. 
YIELD:  1
1⁄2 cups (355 ml)
WALNUT PARMESAN SPRINKLES
QUICK AND EASY
Make these and store them in a shaker jar to sprinkle on pasta, pizza, 
salads, or anywhere you’d sprinkle on some grated Parmesan cheese.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (60 g) walnut pieces
1⁄2 cup (60 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄2 cup (40 g) panko bread crumbs
1⁄2 teaspoon dried basil
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon salt, or to tasteDIRECTIONS:
Add all the ingredients to a blender or f ood processor 
and pulse until the walnut pieces have been ground into a powder.
YIELD:  About 1
1⁄2 cups (126 g)CONDIMENTS, SAUCES, AND OTHER STAPLES 213HEMP ALMOND PARMESAN
QUICK AND EASY GLUTEN FREE
You might ﬁ  nd yourself grabbing a spoon and making a dent in this buttery 
parmesan as is, instead of putting it to good use in meatloaf (page 101), Panzanella 
Sandwiches (page 82), and anywhere Parmesan cheese would be needed.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (160 g) dry-roasted whole almonds
3⁄4 cup (120 g) hemp seeds or (108 g) sesame seeds
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon (15 g) maca powder
1⁄4 cup (30 g) nutritional yeast
1⁄4 cup (28 g) coconut ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon (9 g) white misoDIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a food processor and pro-
cess until the almonds are ground and a Parmesan-like appearance is obtained. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
YIELD:  3 cups (305 g)
SMOKY PUB CHEESE
SOY FREE QUICK AND EASY
This thick spreadable cheese is open to all kinds of adaptations. 
The different ﬂ  avors you can make are only limited by your imagination. 
Try it on crackers, a sandwich, or the Ultimate Patty Melt (page 95).
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (235 ml) vegetable broth or water
2 tablespoons (32 g) tahini
2 to 4 tablespoons (15 to 30 g) nutritional yeast, to taste 
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon onion powder
1⁄2 teaspoon sugar
1 cup (78 g) quick-cooking oats
3 tablespoons (45 ml) canola or other 
mild-ﬂ  avored vegetable oil
1 tablespoon (12 g) diced pimiento or 
piquante or Peppadew peppers
1 teaspoon liquid smokeDIRECTIONS:
Combine the water, tahini, nutritional yeast, salt, onion 
powder, and sugar in a pot and bring to a boil. Stir in the oats, oil, pimiento, and liquid smoke. Remove from the heat, cover, and let sit for 10 to 15 minutes to cool.
Using an immersion blender, or transferring to a tabletop 
blender, process until silky smooth. The consistency will be that of thick peanut butter.
Alternatively, place all the ingredients in a blender, and 
process until smooth. Transfer to a microwave-safe dish. Microwave on High for 1 minute. Stir. Heat at additional 20-second intervals until thick and creamy.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 2 weeks. Enjoy cold, or heat up for a thinner sauce. 
YIELD:  1
1⁄2 cups (336 g)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 214TVP PEPPERONI    
GLUTEN FREE QUICK AND EASY
This is perfect on top of pizza (pictured) or in Crispy Pepperoni Bites (page 162). 
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 tablespoon (7 g) paprika
1 tablespoon (8 g) garlic powder
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon red pepper ﬂ  akes
1 teaspoon dried basil
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 teaspoon cayenne pepper, or to taste 
1 teaspoon Sucanat or other dry sweetener
2 tablespoons (30 ml) olive oil
1 tablespoon (15 ml) liquid smoke
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1 cup (235 ml) boiling waterDIRECTIONS:
Combine the spices and Sucanat in a medium-size bowl. 
Stir in the oil and liquid smoke. Place the TVP on top. Pour the boiling water on top and stir with a fork. Cover with plastic wrap and let stand for 10 minutes. Fluff with a fork. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 
YIELD:  12 ounces (340 g)MOZZARELLA    
QUICK AND EASY
A ﬁ rmer version than the recipe that appears in Pesto con Gusto Pizza (page 145), the coconut 
oil gives this mozzarella a wonderfully buttery taste. Adjust the seasonings and spices to your liking.
INGREDIENTS:
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) unsweetened soymilk
1 tablespoon (15 ml) white vinegar or 
freshly squeezed lemon juice
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) melted coconut oil 
Heaping 1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1⁄4 teaspoon garlic powder
Heaping 1⁄4 teaspoon onion powder
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarchDIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a microwave-safe glass 
measuring cup. Using an immersion blender, blend until foamy and perfectly combined.
Heat in the microwave for 2 minutes, making sure the 
mixture doesn’t foam up and overﬂ  ow. The preparation 
should have the consistency of a thick yogurt, but if it is still extremely liquid, microwave again. Stir with a fork. 
Let cool before using. It gets ﬁ  rmer to the point of be-
ing a soft block (see top-right photo on page 205) once refrigerated for a few hours. Store in the refrigerator, tightly wrapped, for up to 4 days.
YIELD:  1 cup (240 g)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 216TVP CHORIZO
QUICK AND EASY
Use this recipe in Chorizo Flautas (page 164), Chorizo and Egg Frittata (page 42), 
and anywhere chorizo is called for.
INGREDIENTS:
3 tablespoons (24 g) nutritional yeast
3⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
11⁄2 teaspoons ground cumin
1⁄4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
3⁄4 teaspoon paprika
1 tablespoon (8 g) chili powder
1 teaspoon granulated onion
11⁄2 tablespoons (23 ml) apple cider vinegar
3 tablespoons (51 g) ketchup or tomato paste
11⁄2 tablespoons (23 ml) extra-virgin olive oil
3⁄4 cup (72 g) TVP granules
6 tablespoons (90 ml) boiling waterDIRECTIONS:
Combine all the spices, vinegar, ketchup, and oil in a 
medium-size bowl. Stir in the TVP. Pour the boiling water on top and stir well. Cover with plastic wrap and let stand for 10 minutes to reconstitute the TVP. 
Brown in a pan before using, if desired. Store in an air-
tight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. 
YIELD:  12 ounces (340 g)
IMITATION BACON BITS
GLUTEN FREE
Sprinkle on top of baked potatoes, in tofu scrambles, or anywhere you would use bacon bits.
INGREDIENTS:
1 to 2 tablespoons (15 to 30 ml) liquid smoke, or to taste
1 scant cup (205 ml) water
1 cup (96 g) TVP granules
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
A few drops red food coloring (optional)
3 tablespoons (45 ml) canola or other vegetable oilDIRECTIONS:
To a measuring cup, add the liquid smoke, then ﬁ  ll with 
water to get 1 cup (235 ml). Combine the liquid smoke mixture with TVP, salt, and food coloring in a microwave-safe dish. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and microwave on High for 5 minutes. Carefully remove the wrap.
Heat the oil in a frying pan over medium-high heat. Add 
the reconstituted TVP and toss to coat with oil. Panfry until desired crispness, stirring often. You don’t necessarily want to “brown” them, but rather dry them out, about 10 minutes. Let cool completely. 
Refrigerated, these should last at least a week, but 
probably much longer.
YIELD:  About 1 cup (100 g)CONDIMENTS, SAUCES, AND OTHER STAPLES 217CAULIFLOWER AND ONION PICKLES
SOY FREE LOW FAT GLUTEN FREE
Although it’s typically called giardiniera and contains carrots and other 
pickled veggies, we ﬁ  nd that cauliﬂ  ower and onion are the tastiest of the 
bunch. The longer you let them marinate in the refrigerator, the better.
INGREDIENTS:
3 cups (705 ml) white vinegar
3 cups (705 ml) water
1 jalapeño, ribs and seeds removed 
if you want less heat, sliced (optional)
10 ounces (283 g) pearl onions 
1 small head cauliﬂ  ower, separated into small ﬂ  orets
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1 tablespoon (18 g) ﬁ  ne sea salt DIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a 4-quart (3.8-l) Pyrex 
bowl with a lid, or in several pickle jars. The veggies need to be completely immersed in the liquid: if the liquid mea-surements above are not enough for the quantity/size of veggies, add extra water and vinegar in equal amounts. Stir with a spoon, cover with the lid, and marinate in the refrigerator for at least 4 days before enjoying. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 weeks.
YIELD:  About 2 quarts (1.9 l) 
PICKLED PEPPERS
SOY FREE LOW FAT GLUTEN FREE
This recipe is a variation of one given to Joni by her coworker Miguel. They last forever in a big ol’ jar, 
and only get better over time. Keep in mind that these spicy devils are very vinegary and pack a mean 
punch. They also look great packaged in jars and given as gifts! Oh, and on top of nachos . . . killer!
INGREDIENTS:
6 cups (1.4 l) white vinegar
20 jalapeños, stems removed and sliced into rounds 
5 jalapeños, left whole
5 carrots, peeled and sliced into rounds
10 radishes, thinly sliced
1 large white onion, julienned 
1 tablespoon (18 g) sea saltDIRECTIONS:
Combine all the ingredients in a large container with a lid. 
Marinate overnight in the refrigerator.
YIELD:  2 quarts (1.9 l)
RECIPE NOTE
Other nice additions to this mix include chopped 
celery, chopped red bell pepper, fresh cilantro, whole garlic cloves, and whole black peppercorns.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 218ALTELLA SPREAD
GLUTEN FREE
We were longing for an almond-based version of the rich, world-famous chocolate and hazelnut 
spread that would still be ready to use right out of the refrigerator. Mission accomplished! 
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (60 g) powdered sugar, sifted
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (110 g) vegan 
semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) any nondairy milk
3⁄4 cup (120 g) dry-roasted whole almondsDIRECTIONS:
Combine the sugar, chocolate chips, and milk in a micro-
wave-safe bowl. Heat until the chocolate melts, about 1 minute, stirring occasionally. Alternatively, use a double boiler. Set aside to cool.
In a food pr ocessor, grind the almonds until a paste 
forms. Slowly drizzle in the chocolate mixture and pro-cess until perfectly smooth and combined, scraping down the sides occasionally.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up 
to 2 weeks.
YIELD:  1 cup (320 g) 
RECIPE NOTE
If you’d rather work with ready-made natural nut butter 
instead of grinding whole nuts, process 6 tablespoons (96 g) nut butter with the melted chocolate mixture. Any nut butter (and any nut!) works well here.CHESTNUT CREAM SPREAD
GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
It is uncanny how similar to honey this spread is. However, it is slightly less sweet 
than what is commonly enjoyed as a dessert item, and it makes a perfect and unusual 
spread to use on bread. Try it as is once, then adjust the amount of sweetener if needed.
INGREDIENTS:
4 packages (each 31⁄2 ounces, or 100 g) 
prepared roasted chestnuts
14 ounces (414 ml) light coconut milk
1⁄2 cup (100 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
11⁄2 teaspoons (7.5 ml) pure vanilla extractDIRECTIONS:
Combine the chestnuts, milk, and sugar in a medium-size 
saucepan. Bring to a low boil; simmer, uncovered, for 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and add the vanilla. Using a blender, process until smooth. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
YIELD: 3 cups (755 g)CHAPTER 7
Ooey, Gooey, and Downright 
Sinful Sweets
An irresistible selection of cookies, ice creams, and 
other indulgences. 
If you happen to be well known for having a mega sweet tooth and bear a striking resemblance to 
Monsieur Cookie Monster, the following pages might very well become the most worn out of the cookbook. And there’s absolutely no shame in that!
No matter what, please heed this much-needed warning: you must make sure you have a nice tall 
glass of cold nondairy milk at hand, because you’ll deﬁ  nitely need it to wash down all the goods 
you’ll ﬁ  nd here. Think your taste buds can handle it? It’s time to put them to the test.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 222CAKE BATTER ICE CREAM
Celine couldn’t take any more begging from her husband to mimic his favorite ice cream, which 
is served at a popular creamery where add-ins are, well, added into the ice cream upon a granite 
stone right in front of your drooling self. Behold! Now you can have your cake, and ice cream, too.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (120 g) vegan yellow cake mix, 
such as Cherrybrook Kitchen
1⁄4 to 1⁄2 cup (50 to 100 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar, depending on cake mix used and 
personal preference (dip a ﬁ  nger in the batter to try)
2 cups (470 ml) nondairy creamer 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) any thick and rich nondairy milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
Pinch of saltDIRECTIONS:
Remember to place the bowl of your ice cream maker in 
the freezer at least 24 hour s prior to making the dessert.
Using a blender, combine all the ingredients until smooth.Prepare the ice cream following the manufacturer’s 
instructions. Return to the freezer to ﬁ  rm up, if desired.
YIELD:  4 servings
RECIPE NOTE
For some extra fun, cut the cake into thin slices, pile a 
scoop of the softened ice cream between 2 slices, and you have a Cake Batter Ice Cream cake sandwich. Or add pieces of baked cake to the ice cream during the last 5 minutes of churning. Or throw in chopped pieces of your favorite fruit (we like cherries or Marinated Strawberries [page 230]) along with a few pieces of dark chocolate, for extra crunch, as seen in the Banana Split Wafﬂ  e picture (page 28).OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 223COFFEE BEAN ICE CREAM 
If you are like Celine’s husband and walk around with a coffee IV drip all day long, this 
should please you and keep you buzzing for days on end. Or for a few minutes at least.
INGREDIENTS:
2 cups (470 ml) nondairy creamer
1 cup (235 ml) thick nondairy milk 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) Coffee Syrup (recipe below)
11⁄2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
1⁄3 cup (53 g) vegan dark chocolate–covered 
coffee beans, coarsely choppedDIRECTIONS:
Combine the creamer, milk, syrup, vanilla, salt, and corn-
starch in a blender and process until smooth. Place in a saucepan, bring to a low boil, lower the heat, and cook until slightly thickened, whisking constantly, about 4 min-utes. Let cool and chill for a few hours or overnight.
Prepare the ice cream following the manufacturer’s 
instructions. Add the coffee beans during the last 5 min-utes of churning. 
YIELD:  4 servings
BONUS RECIPE
COFFEE SYRUP
You will need to prepare the coffee syrup prior to 
making the ice cream, but the good news is it’s multi-purpose. Make a double batch and save the leftovers for making iced coffees: simply stir a spoonful into a cup of your favorite nondairy milk and pour over ice.
Ingredients:
11⁄4 cups (295 ml) strong brewed coffee (brewed 
from 11⁄4 cups [295 ml] water and 1⁄4 cup [20 g] 
ground coffee)
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar 
Tiny pinch of salt
1⁄2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Directions:
Combine the coffee, sugar, and salt in a saucepan. 
Simmer over medium heat for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally, until reduced to 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml). Keep 
a close eye so the coffee doesn’t scorch. Remove from the heat and let cool. Stir in the extract and chill overnight; the syrup will thicken once refrigerated.
Yield:  3⁄4 cup (180 ml)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 224PEANUT BUTTER ICE CREAM
This concoction tastes super caramel-ly thanks to the use of Sucanat. It is best to 
use an immersion blender to get the ﬂ  ufﬁ est results. Consider adding bits of Peanut 
Butter Cups (page 232) or any other add-in during the last 5 minutes of churning.
If you use gluten-free vanilla, then this recipe is indeed gluten free.
INGREDIENTS:
3⁄4 cup (192 g) natural creamy or crunchy peanut butter 
4 ounces (113 g) extra-ﬁ  rm silken tofu 
6 ounces (170 g) nondairy cream cheese 
3 tablespoons (63 g) agave nectar
3 tablespoons (36 g) Sucanat or brown sugar
Pinch of sea salt
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) nondairy milk, plus more as needed DIRECTIONS:
In a large bowl, combine all the ingredients with an im-
mersion blender, using an up and down motion to “ﬂ  uff 
up” the mixture. If the thickness gives your blender too hard a time, add a little extra milk to make it more man-ageable. Dip a ﬁ  nger into the mixture to have a taste and 
adjust the level of sweetness if needed.
Prepare the ice cream following the manufacturer’s 
instructions. Chill just a little bit longer, about 30 minutes, before serving, until the desired ﬁ  rmness is reached.
YIELD:  4 servings
PEANUT BUTTER MOLASSES SHAKE    
Tired of the usual vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry shakes? We have just the thing for you, 
with this unusual and delectable combination of peanut but ter and molasses, all rolled into 
one icy beverage that will make you go (optionally) bananas!
INGREDIENTS:
2 big scoops Peanut Butter Ice Cream (recipe above) 
1 tablespoon (22 g) regular molasses, or to taste
1⁄2 frozen banana, cut into chunks (optional)
Pinch of sea salt
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) nondairy milkDIRECTIONS:
Combine all of the ingredients in a blender, process 
until smooth, and enjoy.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 226SIMPLY VANILLA ICE CREAM
This simple vanilla ice cream boasts the richness of true vanilla bean. 
If you use gluten-free vanilla, then this recipe is indeed gluten free.
MINT CHIP ICE CREAM
Now, the trick here is to NOT use plain old chocolate chips. You will remember from your 
childhood that good mint chip ice cream has little ﬂ  akes of chocolate in it, not big chunks! 
If you use gluten-free extracts, then this recipe is indeed gluten free.INGREDIENTS:
3 cups (705 ml) vanilla soy creamer, 
other nondairy creamer, or milk
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
Scrapings from 1 vanilla bean
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract DIRECTIONS:
In a saucepan, combine the creamer, sugar, cornstarch, 
and vanilla bean scrapings. Bring to a boil, stirring often. As soon as it begins to boil, remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla extract.
Cover and place in the refrigerator to cool for an hour or 
so, then prepare the ice cream following the manufac-turer’s instructions.
YIELD:  4 servings
INGREDIENTS:
3 cups (705 ml) vanilla soy creamer, 
other nondairy creamer, or milk
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure peppermint extract
A few drops green food coloring (optional)
1⁄3 cup (38 g) vegan chocolate shavingsDIRECTIONS:
In a saucepan, combine the creamer, sugar, and corn-
starch. Bring to a boil, stirring often. As soon as it begins to boil, remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla extract, peppermint extract, and food coloring. Cover and place in the refrigerator to cool for at least an hour.
Stir in the chocolate shavings, then prepare the ice cream 
following the manufacturer’s instructions.
YIELD:  4 servingsOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 227BUTTERSCOTCH ICE CREAM CAKE
We used to be ﬁ  rst in line at the shop where they slap ice cream onto a frozen 
marble slab and mix in whatever strikes your fancy, such as pretzels, chocolate-covered 
coffee beans, nuts, and so on—only now we can make it at home!
CHOCOLATE SYRUP
Stir this syrup into your favorite nondairy milk, or pour it on top 
of nondairy ice cream or wafﬂ  es. Or directly into your mouth.FOR THE BUTTERSCOTCH SAUCE:
1 cup (192 g) Sucanat 
Pinch of salt
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) nondairy milk, plus more as needed
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
FOR THE ICE CAKE:
11⁄2 recipes Cake Batter Ice Cream (page 222), softened
1⁄2 cup (88 g) vegan mini semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄3 cup (50 g) dry-roasted salted peanuts
1⁄2 cup (53 g) chopped brownies (any recipe works!)DIRECTIONS:
To make the sauce:  Combine the Sucanat, salt, 1⁄4 cup 
(60 ml) milk, and butter in a saucepan. Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and cook until the sugar dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat. Stir in the vanilla and more milk as needed to reach the desired texture. Let cool. 
To make the cake:  Line a 9-inch (23-cm) spring-form pan 
with plastic wrap. Beat the ice cream in a large bowl until it softens even more. Add the remaining ingredients and beat until combined. Scrape into the prepared pan and press down, using the overhanging plastic wrap to push and shape into a cake.
Place in the freezer to ﬁ  rm up. Let thaw a few minutes 
before slicing, and serve with the butterscotch sauce or Chocolate Syrup (page 227).
YIELD:  10 servings, about 
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) butterscotch 
sauce
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (80 g) Dutch-proc essed cocoa powder 
2 cups (440 g) packed light brown sugar
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) soymilk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract DIRECTIONS:
Using a blender, combine the cocoa, brown sugar, and 
soymilk until perfectly smooth.
Transfer the mixture to a medium-size saucepan; bring 
to a boil. Lower the heat to medium and cook until the sugar dissolves, about 3 minutes, whisking occasionally. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla. Let cool completely. The syrup will thicken as it cools. 
Transfer to an airtight glass bottle and store in the 
refrigerator. The sauce will keep for about 2 weeks.
YIELD:  3
1⁄3 cups (785 ml)OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 229AB AND C PUDDING
SOY FREE
One layer of nutty pudding, one dollop of compote, one more layer 
of pudding. Try hard to ﬁ  nd something wrong with this mouthwatering 
concept; we bet you one layered pudding you won’t be able to.
If you make sure to use gluten free vanilla, then this recipe is indeed gluten free.
FOR THE ALMOND BUTTER:
1 cup (160 g) dry-roasted whole almonds
1 teaspoon to 1 tablespoon (15 ml) 
vegetable oil, as needed
FOR THE PUDDING:
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) unsweetened almond milk
1⁄2 cup (100 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons (16 g) cornstarch
11⁄2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract 
FOR THE COMPOTE:
2 pounds (908 g) fresh strawberries, 
trimmed, cleaned, and quartered
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2 tablespoons (30 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice
Pinch of saltDIRECTIONS:
To make the almond butter:  Grind the almonds in a food 
processor until a paste forms; this could take a few min-utes, so patience is key. If the food processor refuses to make butter out of your nuts, start by adding 1 teaspoon of oil and go from there, until the consistency of nut but-ter is achieved.
To make the pudding:  Using a blender, combine the nut 
butter, milk, sugar, salt, cornstarch, and process until smooth. Transfer to a saucepan, bring to a low boil, lower the heat to medium-low, and cook, whisking constantly, for approximately 4 minutes, until thickened. Stir in the vanilla and set aside. 
To make the compote:  Combine the strawberries, sugar, 
lemon juice, and salt in a large pot. Bring to a boil, lower the heat to medium-high, and cook for 15 minutes, or until most of the liquid is gone. Use a potato masher and coarsely mash the fruit. Set aside to cool. 
Whisk the pudding before placing about 3 tablespoons 
(45 ml) of it in 4 small d essert dishes, add as much (1 to 
2 tablespoons [15 to 30 ml]) compote as desired in the center, and equally divide the rest of the pudding among the dishes. Serve chilled. Store leftover compote in an airtight container in the refrigerator; it will keep for about 1 week.
YIELD:  4 servings, approximately 4 cups (1 kg) compote
RECIPE NOTES
• Use any frozen or fresh fruit you want to make 
the compote. Or use store-bought. There will be leftovers with the compote recipe. 
• Use store-bought natural roasted almond butter 
instead of making your own. You will need 
1⁄2 cup 
(128 g) of it for the pudding.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 230FUNNEL CAKE
QUICK AND EASY
No need to travel to a state fair to enjoy a funnel cake! These are easier than you might 
think and whip up in less than 20 minutes! Unless you have mad skills with a real funnel, 
we suggest you use a plastic bag and snip off the corner. A deep fryer works well here, but 
if you don’t have one, a pot ﬁ  lled with about 3 inches (7.5 cm) of oil will do the trick nicely.
INGREDIENTS:
Vegetable oil, for frying
11⁄4 cups (156 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 tablespoons (25 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄8 teaspoon salt
1 cup (235 ml) soymilk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Powdered sugar, for sprinklingDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oil in a deep fryer or pot to 350°F (180°C).
While the oil is heating, whisk together the ﬂ  our, sugar, 
baking soda, baking powder, salt, soymilk, and vanilla in a medium-size bowl until smooth. It should be the consis-tency of a thin pancake batter.
Pour the batter into a resealable plastic bag. Snip off a 
corner of the plastic bag and quickly swirl about one-fourth of the batter into the oil.
Fry for 1 to 2 minutes, then carefully ﬂ  ip using a slotted 
spoon. Fry for 1 to 2 minutes longer, until golden and crispy. Carefully transfer to a plate lined with paper towels to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining batter.
While stil warm, sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve.
YIELD:  4 (4-inch, or 10 cm) funnel cakesOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 231FRANGIPANE RICE PUDDING
Even the less enthusiastic rice pudding eaters out there will burst into 
song for more of this sweet dessert, created so that one of the ﬂ  avors Celine’s 
mom loves the m ost, frangipane, w ould get to be savored in a whole new way.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (185 g) uncooked brown or 
white jasmine or other rice (adjust water 
amount according to package directions)
2 cups (470 ml) water 
1 cup (160 g) dry-roasted whole almonds
11⁄2 teaspoons potato starch or cornstarch
1⁄3 cup (64 g) raw sugar
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
3 tablespoons (42 g) nondairy butter
1 teaspoon pure almond extract 
1 cup (120 g) dried cherries
2 cups (470 ml) almond milkDIRECTIONS:
Combine the rice with water in a saucepot. Bring to a boil, 
reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and cook for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the water is absorbed. Alternatively, use a rice cooker.
Combine the almonds, potato starch, sugar, and salt in 
food processor. Process until the almonds are completely 
ground, about 1 minute. Add the butter and almond ex-tract; process until thoroughly combined.
Combine the cooked rice, cherries, almond mixture, and 
almond milk in a saucepan. Bring to a boil, lower the heat to medium-low, and simmer for 20 minutes, or until thick and creamy, stirring occasionally.
Serve warm, at room temperature, or cold. 
YIELD:  6 servings
MARINATED STRAWBERRIES
SOY FREE LOW FAT
Perfect to enjoy on top of pancakes or wafﬂ  es, as is, or in Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies (page 242) or 
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie (page 239). Double or triple the recipe—it’s that good.
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (172 g) sliced fresh strawberries
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
Dash of balsamic vinegarDIRECTIONS:
Combine the strawberries, sugar, and vinegar in a bowl. 
Cover and let macerate for 30 minutes before using in recipes, and enjoy immediately.
YIELD:  1 cup (172 g)HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 232PEANUT BUTTER CUPS
If you, too, share your life with a peanut butter and chocolate ﬁ  end, you’ll see that whipping up 
a batch of these delicious candies is guaranteed to put a grateful smile upon your sweetie’s face.
FOR THE CHOCOLATE:
11⁄2 cups (273 g) chopped vegan semisweet chocolate
2 tablespoons (32 g) natural creamy no-stir peanut butter 
Pinch of salt
FOR THE FILLING:
12 tablespoons (3⁄4 cup, or 192 g) 
natural creamy no-stir peanut butter 
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar, packed light brown sugar, or 
sifted powdered sugar (for less crunchy results)
2 tablespoons (10 g) vegan graham 
cracker crumbs (optional)
Pinch of saltDIRECTIONS:
Prepare a standard mufﬁ  n tin with 12 paper liners.
To make the chocolate:  Combine the chocolate, peanut 
butter, and salt in a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave in 1-minute increments until melted and smooth, keeping a close eye to avoid burning and stirring often. Alterna-tively, use a double boiler.
Place 2 teaspoons of the melted chocolate in each cup-
cake liner and with the back of a spoon carefully spread across the bottom and one-fourth of the way up the liner. Repeat with all 12 liners. Place the chocolate-covered liners on a plate and chill in the refrigerator until ﬁ  rm, 
about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the ﬁ  lling:  In a medium-size bowl, 
stir together the peanut butter, sugar, graham cracker crumbs, and salt. 
Divide the peanut butter ﬁ  lling among the 12 liners, about 
1 heaping tablespoon (20 g) per liner, pressing down gently to make sure the ﬁ  lling spreads out. Chill in the 
refrigerator until ﬁ  rm, about 20 minutes.
Top the ﬁ  lling with 2 teaspoons of the remaining melted 
chocolate, spreading carefully so that none of the peanut butter can be seen. Let the cups chill in the refrigerator for at least 1 hour before enjoying. Store in the refrigera-tor or freezer.
YIELD:  12 candiesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 234BASIC PIE CRUST
As basic as they go, this makes for a delicious, foolproof crust 
that is perfect to use for bo th sweet and sa vory purp oses.
INGREDIENTS:
21⁄2 cups (313 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (140 g) nondairy butter, cold
Heaping 1⁄4 teaspoon sea salt
6 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons (100 ml) water, as neededDIRECTIONS:
Using a food pr ocessor, pulse together the ﬂ  our, butter, 
and salt until combined. Slowly drizzle in the water with the machine running, pulsing until the dough comes together into a ball. Wrap in plastic and chill for 1 hour. Bake as directed in recipes.
YIELD:  2 crustsPEANUT BUTTER FUDGE
GLUTEN FREE SOY FREE
We wanted to have a recipe that made use of this fudge just so that you 
don’t ﬁ  nd yourself diving into it headﬁ  rst without even bothering to come 
up for air. It’s that good. So try the Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies (page 247)!
INGREDIENTS:
1 cup (256 g) peanut butter
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar 
1⁄2 cup (56 g) dry-roasted salted peanuts 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) light coconut milkDIRECTIONS:
Lightly coat a mini loaf pan (approximately 5 × 3 inches 
[13 × 8 cm]) with cooking spray or line it with parchment 
paper; please note the fudge will ﬁ  ll the pan to the top, so 
if you prefer thinner pieces of fudge, use a larger pan. 
Combine the peanut butter, sugar, peanuts, and coconut 
milk in a medium-size saucepan. Bring to a boil. Once it starts boiling, let it roll for 1 minute, stirring constantly, until thickened. Transfer to the loaf pan and let cool be-fore storing in the freezer for a few hours to set. Remove from pan and slice into 1-inch (2.5-cm) squares. Leftovers are best left stored in the freezer for the fudge to keep its optimal texture.
YIELD:  15 squaresOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 235S’MORE PIE
Gooey, sinful dessert, what would we  ever do without you? Because an open ﬁ  re isn’t 
always handy to roast your marshmallows and build standard-size s’mores, we ﬁ  gured it 
was time to make a pie-shaped version of this traditional treat available during all seasons. 
FOR THE CRUST:
11⁄2 cups (170 g) vegan graham cracker crumbs
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) melted nondairy butter or coconut oil
1⁄4 cup (48 g) Sucanat
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
FOR THE FILLING:
11⁄2 cups (176 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄4 cup (84 g) light agave nectar
8 ounces (227 g) ﬁ  rm (not silken) tofu, drained, 
crumbled, and squeezed to get rid of excess liquid
4 ounces (113 g) nondairy cream cheese
2 tablespoons (10 g) Dutch-process cocoa
1⁄4 cup (28 g) vegan graham cracker crumbs
11⁄4 cups (120 g) vegan marshmallow creme, 
such as Ricemellow Creme, divided
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea saltDIRECTIONS:
To make the crust:  Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, 
or gas mark 4). Lightly coat a 9-inch (23-cm) pie plate with cooking spray.
Combine the graham cracker crumbs, butter, Sucanat, 
and salt in a medium-size bowl with a fork, or use a food processor. Press down into the prepared pan. Bake for 8 minutes, being careful not to burn. Let cool completely before adding the ﬁ  lling.
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Combine the chocolate chips and 
agave in a double boiler, and heat until melted, stirring constantly.
Combine the tofu, cream cheese, cocoa, graham cracker 
crumbs, 
1⁄4 cup (24 g) marshmallow creme, and salt in a 
food processor. Process until smooth, scraping the sides 
occasionally. Add the melted chocolate and process until smooth, scraping the sides occasionally.
Scrape the ﬁ  lling evenly into the prepared crust. Chill 
for 2 hours.
Spread the remaining 1 cup (96 g) marshmallow creme 
evenly on top of the chilled pie. Using a kitchen torch, caramelize the marshmallows. Alternatively, use the broiler to just caramelize the top, but keep a close eye so it doesn’t burn! Slice and serve.
YIELD:  8 to 10 servings
RECIPE NOTE
You will need 7 ounces (198 g) whole graham crackers 
in all. You can also use a store-bought vegan graham cracker crust, if you’re in a hurry.OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 237APPLE PIE WITH PECAN CRUST
We don’t really make a point of eating our pi, er, pie at 3:14 a.m. or p.m., 
but one thing we always do is add ice cream on top, because life’s too 
short and our appetite for sweet goodness is pretty much endless. 
FOR THE CRUST:
3⁄4 cup (74 g) pecan halves
11⁄2 cups (180 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (55 g) packed light brown sugar
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) nondairy milk, plus more as needed
FOR THE FILLING:
4 large Granny Smith or other 
good-for-baking apples, peeling optional, cored, 
quartered, and cubed into bite-size pieces
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
3 tablespoons (45 ml) nondairy milk or 
freshly squeezed lemon juice, divided
1⁄2 cup (110 g) packed light brown sugar
2 teaspoons (4.6 g) ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons (10 ml) apple cider vinegar
Pinch of ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 tablespoon (8 g) cornstarchDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 375°F (190°C, or gas mark 5). Lightly 
coat a 9-inch (23-cm) pie plate with cooking spray.
To make the crust:  Add the pecans, ﬂ  our, brown sugar, 
salt, and butter to a food processor. Pulse a few times to grind the pecans and combine. Add the milk, a little at a time, just until the dough sticks together when pinched. 
Evenly crumble the dough into the prepared pie plate, and 
press it down to cover the whole bottom and sides of the plate. Make sure no cracks are left so that the ﬁ  lling has 
no chance of seeping through. Alternatively, you can roll out the crust. You can also reserve a generous handful of the crust to crumble on top of the pie before baking.
Cover the crust with a piece of parchment paper and pie 
weights. Prebake for 24 minutes. 
In the meantime, make the ﬁ  lling:  Combine the apples, 
butter, 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the milk, brown sugar, cinnamon, vinegar, and salt in a pot. Bring to a boil, lower the heat to medium, and cook for 14 minutes, stirring often, or until the syrup is rather thick and the apples are just barely tender without falling apart. 
Combine the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) milk and 
the cornstarch in a small bowl. Add to the apple mixture, stirring well, and cook for 2 minutes longer, or until thickened.
Scrape the ﬁ  lling evenly into the crust. Bake for 24 minutes, 
or until the edges of the crust are golden brown. Place on a wire rack to cool. 
YIELD:  8 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 238CREAMY BANANA PIE
A super-intense chocolate crust creates the tastiest partnership with 
white chocolate and fruity goodness. Consider making it with semisweet 
chocolate if the vegan white chocolate chips are really too hard to locate.
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1⁄3 cup (58 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄4 cup (20 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1⁄4 cup (48 g) raw sugar
1⁄4 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) peanut oil
1⁄2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract 
3 tablespoons (45 ml) nondairy milk
FOR THE FILLING:
12 ounces (340 g) vacuum-packed extra-ﬁ  rm silken tofu 
1 package (33⁄4 ounces, or 105 g) vegan 
vanilla pudding mix, such as Mori Nu
1 cup (256 g) crunchy almond butter
3⁄4 cup (151 g) vegan white chocolate chips, melted
FOR THE BANANAS:
11⁄2 tablespoons (21 g) nondairy butter 
4 medium-size bananas, cut diagonally 
into 1⁄2-inch (1.3-cm) slices
1 tablespoon (15 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juiceDIRECTIONS:
To make the crust:  Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, 
or gas mark 4). Lightly coat an 8-inch (20-cm) round pie plate with cooking spray. 
Combine the ﬂ  our, chocolate chips, cocoa powder, sugar, 
baking powder, and salt in a f ood processor. Process until 
ground. Add the oil and vanilla, and pulse until just com-bined. Add the milk, 1 tablespoon (15 ml) at a time, until the dough sticks together when pinched.
Crumble the dough evenly into the prepared pie plate, 
and press down on the bottom and edges of the pan. Cover with foil and pie weights. Bake for 20 minutes.
Remove the foil and bake for 5 to 10 minutes longer, or 
until the crust is dry, being careful not to burn. Let cool for 10 minutes in the pan. Remove from the pan and let cool completely on a wire rack. 
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Place the tofu in a food processor 
and pulse a few times until blended. Add the pudding mix and pulse a few more times. Add the almond butter and melted chips, and process until smooth. It will take a few minutes to reach the proper thickness. Set aside.
To make the bananas:  Heat the butter in a large skillet 
over medium heat until melted. Add the banana slices (you might have to do this in several batches to avoid crushing the banana slices when ﬂ  ipping them over) and 
lemon juice; cook until brown and tender, carefully turn-ing once. Set aside and let cool.
Scrape half of the ﬁ  lling into the cooled crust and spread 
evenly. Cover with half of the banana preparation. Spread the remaining ﬁ  lling on top of the bananas and smooth 
evenly. Decorate the top with the remaining banana preparation.
Let chill or freeze overnight before slicing. If frozen, thaw 
for a couple of hours in the refrigerator before enjoying.
YIELD:  10 servingsOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 239STRAWBERRY CREAM PRETZEL PIE
We sacriﬁ  ced ourselves to make sure this decadent,  supersweet, almost c ookielike d essert would 
hit the spot by serving it several times over the course of a week, and while we’re 110 percent satisﬁ  ed 
with the outcome, we’re just going to make it one more time to be 120 percent sure of it. Yes. 
FOR THE CRUST:
41⁄2 ounces (128 g) thin pretzels 
1⁄3 cup (75 g) nondairy butter, melted
1⁄4 cup (48 g) raw sugar
3⁄4 cup (132 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chips
FOR THE FILLING:
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese
1 cup (120 g) powdered sugar, sifted
1 recipe Marinated Strawberries (page 230), 
thoroughly drained, divided
6 tablespoons (42 g) coconut ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract DIRECTIONS:
To make the crust:  Preheat the oven to 325°F (170°C, 
or gas mark 3). Lightly coat a 9-inch (23-cm) pie plate with cooking spray.
Using a food processor, ﬁ  nely grind the pretzels. Add the 
melted butter and raw sugar and pulse to combine. Press down into the prepared pan. Bake for 10 minutes just to set the crust. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool for 10 minutes.
Sprinkle the chocolate chips in an even layer on the crust, 
and place back in the oven, using the residual heat to let the chocolate melt, about 2 minutes. Carefully spread with an offset spatula. Chill in the refrigerator until the chocolate sets, about 20 minutes. 
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Using an electric mixer, combine the 
cream cheese and powdered sugar. Beat 
1⁄4 cup (40 g) of 
the marinated strawberries into the preparation: do not worry about crushing them; you want them to turn the ﬁ lling pink. Add the coconut ﬂ  our and vanilla, and beat 
until incorporated. 
Spread the ﬁ  lling over the chocolate layer on the crust, 
using an offset spatula. Chill in the freezer for 1 hour to make slicing easier. Storing it in the freezer and thaw-ing for 15 minutes before enjoying is best. T op with the 
remaining 
3⁄4 cup (120 g) marinated strawberries upon 
serving.
YIELD:  12 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 240GRASSHOPPER PIE
In a complete role reversal, this pie was invented after an alcoholic beverage of the same name. 
Keep a few extra cookies on hand to crumble on top for decoration and extra cookie goodness.
FOR THE CRUST:
24 creme-ﬁ  lled chocolate cookies, 
such as Newman O’s or Joe-Joe’s
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter, melted
FOR THE FILLING:
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
16 ounces (454 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄2 cup (100 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
10 ounces (280 g) vegan marshmallows, such as Dandies
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure peppermint extract
A few drops green food coloring (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the crust:  Add cookies and melted butter to a 
food processor and process until a ﬁ  ne crumb is formed. 
Press into a 9-inch (23 cm) pie plate. Set aside.
To make the ﬁ  lling:  In a saucepot, heat the butter, cream 
cheese, and sugar over medium heat until the sugar is completely dissolved and the mixture is creamy and silky smooth, stirring constantly. Stir in the marshmallows and cook until melted and smooth. Remove from the heat. Stir in the vanilla, peppermint extract, and food coloring.
Pour the mixture into the crust and smooth out the top. 
Place in the refrigerator to set. It should set within an hour, but this pie tastes best cold, so wait at least 2 hours before slicing to enjoy.
YIELD:  8 servings
RECIPE NOTE
To make a Grasshopper cocktail, add equal parts 
Creme de Menthe, white Creme de Cacao, and vanilla nondairy creamer to a cocktail shaker ﬁ  lled with ice. 
Shake and strain into a cocktail glass and serve.OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 241PECAN PEACH GOBBLE-R À LA MODE
Feel free to make half a recipe of Basic Pie Crust (page 234) instead of the crust 
used here. But be absolutely sure to serve the “gobble-r” still warm with a melting, 
big scoop of Cake Batter Ice Cream (page 222) and sprinkled with the pecans! 
FOR THE CANDIED PECANS:
1⁄2 cup (50 g) pecan halves
11⁄2 tablespoons (23 ml) pure maple syrup
Pinch of salt
FOR THE CRUST:
4 ounces (113 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄2 teaspoon lemon zest
11⁄4 cups (156 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) cold water
FOR THE FILLING:
1 tablespoon (14 g) nondairy butter
2 pounds (908 g) fresh or frozen sliced peaches, 
thawed and drained if using frozen
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar 
3 tablespoons (45 ml) water mixed with 3 tablespoons 
(24 g) cornstarch to form a slurry
2 teaspoons (2.2 g) nondairy butter, melted
1 tablespoon (12 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar or raw sugarDIRECTIONS:
To make the candied pecans:  Combine the pecans, 
maple syrup, and salt in a dry skillet. Cook over medium-high heat, stirring often, until the syrup caramelizes, about 3 minutes. Spread on a baking sheet to cool. 
To make the crust:  Place the cream cheese, zest, ﬂ  our, 
and salt in a food processor. Pulse a few times until the 
cream cheese is mostly broken down. Drizzle in the water until a dough forms. Wrap in plastic and chill for 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C, or gas mark 6). To make the ﬁ  lling:  Melt the butter in a large skillet. 
Add the peaches and sugar, and cook for 2 minutes over medium-high heat. Add the slurry and cook for 5 minutes, carefully stirring occasionally until thickened. Set aside.
Turn out the dough onto a lightly ﬂ  oured surface and roll 
into a 9
1⁄2-inch (23-cm) square.
Place the peaches in a 9-inch (23-cm) square baking dish. 
Carefully place the rolled-out crust on top of the peaches. Cut out a couple of air vents in the center of the crust with a pair of clean kitchen scissors. Lightly brush the crust with the melted butter. Sprinkle the sugar evenly on top.
Place the baking dish on a baking sheet to catch any 
drips. Bake for 55 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown. Serve with ice cream and top with the pecans.
YIELD:  6 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 242FRUITY CREAMSICLE WHOOPIE PIES
Supersweet, creamy, and fruity—whoop whoop! Feel free to use either cherries or strawberries 
here for the ﬁ  lling—both are outstanding. (Cherry ﬁ  lling is pictured.) Dried fruit works well, too!
FOR THE COOKIES:
11⁄2 cups (300 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) vegetable oil
3⁄4 cup (180 g) nondairy vanilla-ﬂ  avored yogurt 
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract
2 teaspoons (10 ml) rose water if using strawberry ﬁ  lling 
or 
1⁄2 teaspoon pure almond extract if using cherry ﬁ  lling
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
4 cups (500 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon (16 g) baking powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
FOR THE FILLING:
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter
4 cups (480 g) powdered sugar, sifted 
1⁄2 teaspoon pure almond extract if using cherry ﬁ  lling
32 cherries, quartered, pitted, and patted dry, or 
1⁄2 recipe Marinated Strawberries (page 230), drained wellDIRECTIONS:
To make the cookies:  Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, 
or gas mark 4). Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats. 
Combine the sugar, oil, yogurt, vanilla, rose water or 
almond extract, and salt in a large bowl. Add the ﬂ  our, 
baking powder, and baking soda; stir until combined. Use your hands if you must; the dough can handle it.
Divide the dough into 16 equal portions of a scant 
1⁄4 cup 
(66 g) each. Shape into balls and ﬂ  atten on top just a 
little. Transfer to the prepared baking sheets.
Bake for 15 minutes, or until set and golden brown. Let 
cool on the baking sheets for a few minutes before trans-ferring to a wire rack once the cookies are ﬁ  rm enough. 
Let cool completely before ﬁ  lling.
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Combine the cream cheese, butter, 
powdered sugar, and almond extract (if using cherries) in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat just until ﬂ  uffy; 
do not beat for too long or it will turn runny.
Either gently fold the fruit into the frosting and sandwich 
between 2 cookies or spread a thin layer of frosting on 2 cookies and place 4 quartered cherries or 1 tablespoon (11 g) drained strawberries in the middle. Repeat to make 8 cookie sandwiches in all.
These are best enjoyed promptly once prepared, or keep 
the cookies at room temperature and the ﬁ  lling in the 
refrigerator and prepare them just before serving, oth-erwise the juice that’s inevitably left in the fruit will ooze into the cookies.
YIELD:  8 large whoopie piesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 244HANDHELD BLUEBERRY PIES
What could possibly make blueberry pie any better? When you can hold 
it in your hand, of course! A deep fryer works best here, but if you don’t 
have one, a pot ﬁ  lled with 4 inches (10 cm) of oil will do the trick just ﬁ  ne.
FOR THE BLUEBERRY FILLING:
2 cups (290 g) fresh or frozen blueberries 
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
FOR THE CRUST:
11⁄2 cups (188 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄3 cup (67 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄2 cup (112 g) cold nondairy butter, cubed
2 tablespoons (30 ml) soy or other nondairy milk
Vegetable oil, for frying
Powdered sugar, for sprinkling (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Place all the ingredients in a sauce-
pot and simmer over medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring so that the mixture does not burn and stick to the bottom of the pot.
To make the crust:  In a medium-size mixing bowl, sift to-
gether the ﬂ  our, sugar, and cinnamon. Add the butter, and 
incorporate into the ﬂ  our mixture with your ﬁ  ngertips. 
Add the milk, slowly, and knead together. Don’t overwork the dough, or you will end up with a tough crust. 
Divide the dough into 4 equal pieces. Turn out onto a 
lightly ﬂ  oured surface and roll each piece into a circle 
about 8 inches (20 cm) in diameter. 
Place one-fourth of the ﬁ  lling in the center of each crust. 
Fold over the crust into a half circle. Seal the edges with the tines of a fork. 
Heat the oil in a deep fryer or pot to 350°F (180°C). Care-
fully add 1 pie to the hot oil and fry for 3 to 4 minutes, ﬂ ipping halfway through, until golden and crispy. Transfer 
to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining 3 pies.
Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Let cool slightly before 
serving. That ﬁ  lling is HOT! 
YIELD:  4 piesOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 245CRISPY GLAZED CHERRY PIE BITES
If you thought puff pastry was tasty when it was baked, just wait until 
you try it deep-fried and then glazed! This simple list of ingredients will 
yield such amazing results you will hardly believe it was so easy.
INGREDIENTS:
1 package (1 pound, or 454 g) vegan puff pastry
1 can (15 ounces, or 420 g) pitted cherries in heavy syrup
Vegetable oil, for frying 
2 cups (240 g) powdered sugar, sifted
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) soymilkDIRECTIONS:
Thaw the puff pastry according to package directions. 
Cut each sheet of pastry into 8 rectangles measuring ap-proximately 5 × 3 inches (12.5 × 7.5 cm). Create a pocket 
by folding 1 rectangle in half and sealing the 2 outer edges with the tines of a fork, leaving an opening at the top. Add 3 cherries to the pocket and seal the top. Repeat to make 16 pockets in all.
If you have a deep fryer, this is a great time to use it. If 
not, a pot ﬁ  lled with 4 inches (10 cm) of oil will work just 
ﬁ ne. Preheat the oil to 350°F (180°C).
Add 2 pie bites at a time to the oil and fry for 1 to 1
1⁄2 min-
utes, then carefully ﬂ  ip over and fry for 1 to 11⁄2 minutes 
longer, or until puffy, golden, and crispy. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to absorb the excess oil. Repeat with the remaining 14 pie bites.
In a small bowl, whisk together the powdered sugar and 
soymilk until smooth. Dip each bite into the glaze and place on a wire rack to cool and dry completely. Place a kitchen towel or paper towels underneath the rack to catch the dripping glaze.
YIELD:  16 bite-size pies
RECIPE NOTE
No need to limit yourself to cherries here. Try these 
little gals with a number of different ﬁ  llings—blueberry, 
peach, mango, strawberry, banana, you name it. If you can ﬁ  t it inside, chances are, it will taste delicious!OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 247PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE COOKIES
You might be of the mind that the fudge and sugar make these more of 
a treat, but let us pretend that the oats and whole wheat ﬂ  our counterbalance 
that fact and make this a healthy cookie. What? It is too true. Denial is a great thing.
INGREDIENTS:
1 recipe Peanut Butter Fudge (page 234), chopped, divided
6 tablespoons (90 ml) peanut oil
3 tablespoons (45 g) nondairy vanilla-ﬂ  avored yogurt
3 tablespoons (45 ml) soymilk
6 tablespoons (75 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
6 tablespoons (83 g) packed light brown sugar
3⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract
11⁄2 cups (120 g) old-fashioned oats
11⁄2 cups (180 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
3⁄4 teaspoon baking powderDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
Using a mixer, combine 1
1⁄2 cups (390 g) of the fudge, 
oil, yogurt, soymilk, both sugars, salt, and vanilla until emulsiﬁ  ed. Stir in the oats, ﬂ  our, and baking powder 
until combined.
Divide the dough into packed 
1⁄4-cup (80-g) portions: 
you should get 12 large cookies. Press down onto the prepared baking sheets because these do not spread much while baking. Press down 1 tablespoon (13 g) of the remaining fudge into each cookie. (This is optional: if you’d rather not add fudge on top, it’s ﬁ  ne too!)
Bake for 14 minutes, or until the cookies are golden 
brown around the edges. Let cool on the baking sheets for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
YIELD:  12 large cookiesHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 248SALTY SWEET OAT COOKIES
These are a cross between scones and cookies, great to grab when you’re on the go!
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄3 cup (73 g) packed light brown sugar
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1⁄4 cup (60 g) plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored nondairy yogurt 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 cups (300 g) Salty Sweet Oats (page 24)
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon baking powder
6 tablespoons (66 g) vegan mini semisweet 
chocolate chips or any add-in
Heaping 1⁄4 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea saltDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 2 
baking sheets with parchment paper. 
Using an electric mixer, combine both the sugars, butter, 
yogurt, and vanilla. 
In a separate medium-size bowl, combine the oats, ﬂ  our, 
baking powder, chocolate chips, and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet and stir to combine.
Using a scant 
1⁄2 cup (105 g) of dough, shape 8 cookies. 
Pat down gently on the baking sheet and ﬂ  atten a little 
because these won’t spread much while baking.
Bake for 16 minutes, or until golden brown around the 
edges. Let the cookies ﬁ  rm up on the baking sheet for at 
least 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool.
YIELD:  8 large cookies
SUGAR RUSH CEREAL BARS
Who says that rice crispy treats need to be made from rice crispies? We use 
Cap’n Crunch here, but the fun thing is, they can be made with any cereal!
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1 package (10 ounces, or 280 g) vegan marshmallows, 
such as Dandies
12 ounces (336 g) crispy corn cereal, 
such as Cap’n Crunch or Gorilla Munch
1 cup (176 g) vegan semisweet chocolate chipsDIRECTIONS:
Line a 9 × 12-inch (23 × 30-cm) baking dish with waxed 
paper.
Melt the butter in a saucepot over medium-low heat. Add 
the marshmallows, and stir to melt. It may take a few minutes to melt vegan marshmallows. Stir constantly to prevent burning. The melted mixture will be shiny, ﬂ  uffy, 
and uniform, almost resembling a meringue.
Add the cereal and chocolate chips to a large mixing bowl 
and toss together. Add the marshmallow mixture and toss to coat. The chocolate chips will begin to melt and swirl throughout the mixture.
Press the mixture into the prepared dish and press ﬂ  at 
with a spatula. Let cool completely before cutting.
YIELD:  12 barsOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 249WHITE CHOCOLATE ALMOND BARS
The crunch of almonds paired with an aromatic orange ﬂ  avor 
makes for one irresis tibly chewy dessert or snack.
INGREDIENTS:
1⁄3 cup (75 g) nondairy butter
10 ounces (283 g) vegan white chocolate chips
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored yogurt
2⁄3 cup (80 g) powdered sugar, sifted
Zest of 1⁄2 medium-size orange 
1 teaspoon pure orange extract
11⁄4 cups plus 2 tablespoons (165 g) light spelt ﬂ  our or 
11⁄4 cups (150 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 cup (80 g) dry-roasted whole almonds, 
coarsely choppedDIRECTIONS:
Combine the butter and chocolate in a microwave-safe 
bowl and microwave in 1-minute increments, so as not to burn the chocolate, until melted. Stir to combine.
Add the yogurt, powder ed sugar, z est, and orange 
extract to the chocolate mixture and use an immersion blender to combine. Let cool to room temperature before proceeding.
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Lightly coat an 8-inch (20-cm) baking pan with cooking spray.
Stir the ﬂ  our and baking powder into the wet ingredi-
ents. Gently fold in the almonds; the batter will be thick. Spread the batter evenly into the prepared pan. 
Bake for 40 minutes, or until set. The edges should pull 
away from the pan and the surface will look shiny. Place the pan on a wire rack and let cool completely before slicing. These taste especially great straight out of the refrigerator, which will also make them easier to slice.
YIELD:  12 barsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 250RED-EYE TREATS
Rest assured that the quantity of coffee in these crispy treats won’t be enough 
to keep you wired all night long; it merely adds a touch of caramel ﬂ  avor here.
INGREDIENTS:
3⁄4 cup (192 g) natural crunchy or creamy 
peanut butter or any nut butter 
1⁄2 cup (172 g) brown rice syrup 
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) pure maple syrup or (168 g) agave nectar 
1 tablespoon (4 g) instant coffee or 
coffee alternative powder
1⁄3 cup (27 g) unsweetened cocoa powder 
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
6 cups (96 g) puffed grain, such as brown rice or kamut, 
plus more as neededDIRECTIONS:
Combine the peanut butter, rice syrup, maple syrup, 
instant coffee, and cocoa powder in a medium-size saucepan and cook over medium-low heat for a couple of minutes to dissolve the coffee powder and to make com-bining easier. Stir occasionally. Remove from the heat, add the vanilla, and stir to combine.
Add the puffed grain to a large bowl, pour the wet 
ingredients on top, and mix well until it is coated with the sticky mixture. Add more puffed grain if you are looking for denser treats, or if the mixture looks too wet.
Line an 8-inch (20-cm) square pan with parchment paper. 
Add the mixture and press down ﬁ  rmly, using more 
parchment paper to ﬂ  atten. 
Chill in the refrigerator or freezer for about 1 hour, then 
cut into 8 pieces. Store in the refrigerator or freezer.
YIELD:  8 treats
RECIPE NOTE
If your wrists aren’t getting any younger and you’re 
afraid of stirring a dense, sticky situation, use your stand mixer—it won’t crush the puffed grain.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 252PEANUT BUTTER CUPCAKES 
WITH PB FROSTING AND PB CUP CHUNKS
Pushing peanut buttery goodness to the limit and loving it, these cupcakes will show no mercy to even 
the most king-size of cravings! The frosting makes enough to cover all 12 cupcakes, but you may want 
to consider doubling it if you’re going for that bakery-style thick slather. (You’ve got our vote.) 
FOR THE FROSTING:
1⁄2 cup (100 g) vegan white chocolate chips 
2 tablespoons (42 g) agave nectar
4 ounces (113 g) nondairy cream cheese
1⁄4 cup (64 g) natural creamy peanut butter
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
11⁄4 cups (295 ml) soymilk
1 tablespoon (15 ml) apple cider vinegar
1 cup (256 g) natural creamy peanut butter 
2⁄3 cup (133 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar 
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
11⁄2 cups (188 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
2⁄3 cup (116 g) chopped Peanut Butter Cups (page 232)DIRECTIONS:
To make the frosting:  In a microwave-safe bowl, combine 
the white chocolate and agave. Microwave in 20- to 30-second intervals, being careful not to let the choco-late scorch, until melted. Stir to combine. Add the cream cheese and peanut butter and, using an immersion blend-er, blend until perfectly smooth. Chill until ready to use.
To make the cupcakes:  Preheat the oven to 350°F 
(180°C, or gas mark 4). Line a standard mufﬁ  n pan with 
paper liners.
Combine the soymilk and vinegar in a medium-size bowl: 
It will curdle and become like buttermilk.
In a large bowl, whisk together the peanut butter, sugar, 
buttermilk mixture, salt, and vanilla until perfectly smooth. Sift the ﬂ  our, baking powder, and baking soda on 
top of the wet ingredients. Fold the dry ingredients into the wet, being careful not to overmix. Fold in the chopped peanut butter cups.
Divide the batter evenly among the paper liners, ﬁ  lling 
each almost to the top.
Bake for 22 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the 
center comes out clean. Let cool for a few minutes in the pan before transferring to a wire rack. Cool completely before frosting. (And if you have any leftover peanut but-ter cups, use them as a topping!) 
YIELD:  12 cupcakesOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 253VANILLA PUDDING CUPCAKES
Believe it or not, Jell-O brand instant vanilla pudding is vegan! We know, wha-wha-what? But 
it’s true! (In fact, the following instant pudding ﬂ  avors are all vegan according to PETA: Pistachio, 
Banana Crème, Lemon, and Vanilla—so that means lots of options for rich, moist cupcakes!) 
This recipe creates a dense moist yellow cupcake that reminds us of a really rich pound cake. It 
tastes perfect topped with a mile-high pile of your favorite butter cream or cream cheese frosting.
INGREDIENTS:
1 box (3.4 ounces, or 96 g) French vanilla or 
vanilla instant pudding mix
2 cups (240 g) white whole wheat or (250 g) 
all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄2 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄3 cup (80 ml) vegetable oil
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) nondairy creamer or 
nondairy milk (plain or vanilla)
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Line 
a standard mufﬁ  n pan with paper liners.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the pudding mix, ﬂ  our, 
baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
In a medium-size mixing bowl, combine the sugar, oil, 
creamer, and sour cream until smooth. Add the wet ingre-dients to the dry and stir to combine, being careful not to overmix. Divide the batter evenly among the paper liners, and smooth out the tops.
Bake 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden brown and a tooth-
pick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let cool for a few minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Top with your favorite frosting.
YIELD:  12 cupcakesOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 255GRAHAM CRACKER CAKE
Roasted marshmallows on top of a moist cake so tender and tasti-fying, you 
will have to put it under lock and key if you want to save a piece for yourself.
INGREDIENTS:
7 ounces (198 g) vegan graham crackers or 
13⁄4 cups (198 g) crumbs
11⁄2 cups (180 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 cup (120 g) powdered sugar, sifted
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3⁄4 cup (180 ml) unsweetened nondairy milk
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored yogurt 
2 tablespoons (30 ml) vegetable oil
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
1⁄2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (110 g) vegan mini 
semisweet chocolate chips
1⁄2 cup (25 g) vegan marshmallows, 
such as Dandies (optional) DIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). 
Lightly coat an 8-inch (20-cm) baking pan with cooking spray.
Using a food proc essor, grind the crackers into crumbs. 
Add the ﬂ  our, powdered sugar, baking powder, salt, and 
cinnamon. Pulse a few times to combine.
In a large bowl, combine the milk, yogurt, oil, vanilla, and 
chocolate chips. Stir the dry ingredients into the wet, be-ing careful not to overmix. Scrape the batter into the pan and smooth the top. Cover evenly with the marshmallows.
Bake for 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the 
center comes out clean. Let cool in the pan for 30 min-utes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
YIELD:  8 to 10 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 256BANANA CREAM PIE CAKE 
WITH CHESTNUT GLAZE
Super-tender banana cake meets sweet chestnut glaze. It’s love at ﬁ  rst bite, and this 
union will have you living happily ever after. Or, you know, until more cake is made. 
If you like your desserts slightly less sweet, drop the glaze and simply spread some 
Chestnut Cream Spread on top of the cake, or sandwich it between 2 pieces of cake.
FOR THE CAKE:
2 bananas 
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
3⁄4 cup (150 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (56 g) coconut ﬂ  our 
6 tablespoons (30 g) coconut ﬂ  akes 
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
1⁄2 teaspoon ﬁ  ne sea salt
1 cup (120 g) whole wheat pastry or all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder
FOR THE GLAZE:
1⁄4 cup (63 g) Chestnut Cream Spread (page 218)
11⁄2 cups (180 g) powdered sugar, siftedDIRECTIONS:
To make the cake:  Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, 
or gas mark 4). Lightly coat an 8-inch (20-cm) square or round baking pan with cooking spray. 
Using a mixer, combine the bananas, butter, sugar, coco-
nut ﬂ  our, coconut ﬂ  akes, vanilla, and salt until smooth. 
Add the ﬂ  our and baking powder and stir with a rubber 
spatula until combined. Scrape into the prepared pan and smooth the top.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the 
center comes out clean. Let cool in the pan on a wire rack for 15 minutes, then transfer directly to the wire rack to cool completely before applying glaze.
To make the glaze:  Using a mixer, beat the cream and 
powdered sugar together until combined. Chill for 1 hour before spreading on cake or cupcakes.
YIELD:  1 (8-inch, or 20-cm) cake or 12 cupcakes
RECIPE NOTE
Make 12 cupcakes out of this recipe by lining a standard 
mufﬁ  n pan with paper liners, ﬁ  lling each liner three-
fourths full, and baking for 22 minutes.OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 257OLD-FASHIONED COCONUT CAKE
Two luscious layers of coconut-ty goodness lathered in more coconut-ty frosting goodness. 
FOR THE CAKE:
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
2 cups (240 g) sweetened coconut ﬂ  akes
1⁄4 cup (32 g) cornstarch
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 cups (400 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter, softened
6 ounces (170 g) plain or vanilla-ﬂ  avored 
soy or coconut yogurt
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1 cup (235 ml) full-fat coconut milk
2 teaspoons (10 ml) pure vanilla extract
FOR THE FROSTING:
6 ounces (170 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (112 g) nondairy butter
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract
1 pound (454 g) powdered sugar, sifted
2 cups (240 g) sweetened coconut ﬂ  akesDIRECTIONS:
To make the cake:  Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, 
or gas mark 4). Spray two 9-inch (23-cm) round cake pans with cooking spray, or line with parchment paper.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, coconut, corn-
starch, baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
In a separate large bowl, with an electric mixer, beat 
together the sugar and butter until ﬂ  uffy. Add the yogurt, 
sour cream, coconut milk, and vanilla and beat until creamy. Slowly beat the dry ingredients into the wet and mix until smooth, being careful not to overmix. Spread the batter evenly into the 2 cake pans.
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until golden and a toothpick 
inserted into the center comes out clean. Remove from the oven, allow to cool for 10 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely before frosting.
To make the frosting:  Using an electric mixer, beat 
together the sour cream, butter, and vanilla until creamy. Beat in the powdered sugar, a little at a time, until smooth and silky. Keep refrigerated until ready to use.
Preheat the oven to 450°F (230°C, or gas mark 8). Line 
a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Spread the coconut evenly on the baking sheet. 
Bake for about 5 minutes, until just beginning to brown. Be 
sure to keep a close eye on it, because it can burn quickly.
Level the bottom layer of cake, spread a layer of frosting 
on top, and place the other cake layer on top. Frost the entire cake with the frosting, and then press the toasted coconut evenly all over the cake.
YIELD:  8 servingsHEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 258PEANUT BUTTER ROCKY ROAD 
POUND CAKES
These cakes bake up wonderfully in mini loaf pans, which makes them perfect for gift giving!
INGREDIENTS:
3 cups (375 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1 cup (80 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon (12 g) baking powder
1 tablespoon (12 g) baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 cups (470 ml) nondairy milk
11⁄2 cups (300 g) evaporated cane juice or 
granulated sugar
1 container (6 ounces, or 170 g) plain or 
vanilla-ﬂ  avored nondairy yogurt 
1⁄2 cup (120 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 cup (128 g) natural creamy no-stir peanut butter
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) canola oil
2 tablespoons (30 ml) pure vanilla extract
1 bag (10 ounces, or 280 g) vegan marshmallows, 
such as Dandies
1 cup (120 g) pecan or walnut piecesDIRECTIONS:
Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C, or gas mark 4). Coat 
8 mini loaf pans with cooking spray.
In a large mixing bowl, combine the ﬂ  our, cocoa powder, 
baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
In a separate medium-size bowl, combine the milk, sugar, 
yogurt, sour cream, peanut butter, oil, and vanilla, and beat until creamy. 
Add the wet ingredients to the dry and stir to combine. 
Fold in the marshmallows and walnuts. Fill the loaf pans three-fourths full. Place the loaf pans on a baking sheet to catch any drips.
Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted 
into the center comes out clean. Let cool on a wire rack.
YIELD:  8 mini loaves
RECIPE NOTE
Reserve 3 or 4 marshmallows and a small handful 
of nuts to place on top of each loaf before baking, for extra gooey roasted marshmallow tops.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 260JUNE’S SWEDISH DESSERT 
BLENDER PANCAKES
Joni’s sister June, also a vegan, makes these for Joni when she visits. They are 
her signature dish, and she makes several varieties. This one is Joni’s favorite! 
FOR THE SWEDISH PANCAKES:
1 cup (125 g) all-purpose ﬂ  our
1⁄4 cup (50 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
1 tablespoon plus 11⁄2 teaspoons (12 g) Ener-G egg 
replacer whisked together with 6 tablespoons (90 ml) 
warm water, the equivalent of 3 eggs (see note)
2 tablespoons (28 g) nondairy butter
2 cups (470 ml) soymilk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1⁄4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
1⁄4 cup (56 g) nondairy butter, for frying 
FOR THE BANANA CRÈME FILLING:
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy cream cheese
8 ounces (227 g) nondairy sour cream, 
store-bought or homemade (page 211)
1⁄2 banana
1⁄2 cup (60 g) powdered sugar, sifted
1 tablespoon (15 ml) pure vanilla extract
FOR THE SLICED BANANA TOPPING:
1 tablespoon (14 g) nondairy butter
2 tablespoons (28 g) packed brown sugar
1 banana, sliced into rounds
Powdered sugar, for sprinkling (optional)
Chocolate Syrup (page 227), for drizzling (optional)DIRECTIONS:
To make the pancakes:  Blend all the ingredients in a 
tabletop blender, or in a mixing bowl with an immersion blender, until very, very smooth.
Melt 1 tablespoon (14 g) of the butter in a frying pan over 
medium-high heat. (Or use cooking spray between each batch, spraying away from the stove when the pan is warm, and carefully holding the pan.) Once the butter is melted and the pan is hot, pour in enough of the batter to coat the bottom of the pan, and swirl to make a thin crêpelike pancake. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes, and then ﬂ  ip 
and cook the other side for 2 to 3 minutes. Repeat to make 4 to 6 pancakes in all.
To make the ﬁ  lling:  Place all the ingredients in a blender 
and process until smooth and creamy.
To make the topping:  Melt the butter and brown sugar 
in a pan over medium heat. Once the sugar is completely dissolved, add the banana slices and toss gently to coat, continuing to cook until sticky and warm.
Assemble the dessert by  placing 1 pancake on each of 
4 to 6 plates. Add equal amounts of ﬁ  lling to the center 
of each pancake and roll up the pancake around the ﬁ lling. Top with the sliced bananas. Sprinkle with the 
powdered sugar and drizzle with the chocolate syrup. Serve immediately.
YIELD:  4 to 6 servings, depending on the size of 
your pan
RECIPE NOTE
If you don’t have access to egg replacer, use 11⁄2 
tablespoons (12 g) cornstarch and omit the water.OOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 261MATÉ MADNESS MARGARITA
LOW FAT SOY FREE QUICK AND EASY
Yerba maté (pronounced mah-tay) is a South American tea that packs a powerful caffeine punch. 
Be careful: you can’t really taste the alcohol in these, which, in our case . . . is very dangerous!
PINEAPPLE GINGER LASSI
GLUTEN FREE QUICK AND EASY LOW FAT
Here’s a tasty beverage to enjoy alongside Indian-style curries or dishes, or to put some 
pep in your step ﬁ  rst thing in the morning. Add the optional ice cubes for a thicker beverage. 
As far as sweetness goes, adjust the amount of agave depending on how sweet the yogurt is.INGREDIENTS:
6 cups (140 ml) brewed yerba maté tea, cooled
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) freshly squeezed lime juice (about 4 limes)
1⁄2 cup (120 ml) freshly squeezed orange juice 
(about 2 oranges)
1⁄3 cup (112 g) agave nectar
1 cup (235 ml) Triple Sec
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) tequila
Raw or sparkling sugar, for the glasses
6 lime wedges, for garnishDIRECTIONS:
In a large pitcher, stir together the tea, juices, agave, 
Triple Sec, and tequila. Keep chilled until ready to serve. Serve over ice in a sugar-rimmed glass (or mason jar) with a wedge of lime.
YIELD:  6 servings
INGREDIENTS:
6 ounces (170 g) nondairy plain yogurt
1⁄2 cup (80 g) frozen pineapple chunks
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) fresh pineapple juice
2 to 3 teaspoons (14 to 21 g) agave nectar, or to taste
1⁄2 to 3⁄4 teaspoon ground ginger, or to taste, or 
grate fresh gingerroot, to taste
2 ice cubes (optional)DIRECTIONS:
In a blender, process all the ingredients until smooth. 
Serve immediately.
YIELD:  1 servingOOEY, GOOEY, AND DOWNRIGHT SINFUL SWEETS 263PINK PUCKER
LOW FAT SOY FREE QUICK AND EASY
Not a drinker? That’s okay: the whiskey is totally optional. However, if you 
decide to make these virgins, you may want to cut back on the sugar a bit.
INGREDIENTS:
4 cups (940 ml) water
1 cup (200 g) evaporated cane juice or granulated sugar
10 ounces (280 g) fresh or frozen whole strawberries
2 cups (470 ml) freshly squeezed lemon juice 
(about 8 lemons)
11⁄2 cups (355 ml) whiskey (optional) DIRECTIONS:
In a medium-size pot, combine the water and sugar. Cook 
over medium-high heat until all the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is just about to boil.
Add the strawberries and continue to cook for about 
5 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from the heat and stir in the lemon juice. Carefully transfer to a pitcher and chill in the refrigerator before serving. You can strain out the strawberries if desired, but we think they taste yummy, so we leave them in.
Serve over ice, stirring in 
1⁄4 cup (60 ml) of whiskey for 
each drink.
YIELD:  6 servings
RECIPE NOTE
Try this as a refreshing summertime slushy by not 
doing any cooking. Use frozen strawberries and blend all the ingredients until satisfyingly smooth. Add extra ice for a thicker beverage.HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 264About the Authors
Joni Marie Newman  is a Southern California native, and currently resides in Orange County with 
her husband, their three rescue mutts, and Michael, the cat. She is the founder of Justthefood.com, 
the author of Cozy Inside  and The Best Veggie Burgers on the Planet , and the coauthor of 500 Vegan 
Recipes  and The Complete Guide to Vegan Food Substitutions . You can get in touch with her at 
Joni@justthefood.com.
Celine Steen  lives in California with her favorite dude and their two crazy cats. She is the founder 
of Havecakewilltravel.com, as well as the coauthor of 500 Vegan Recipes  and The Complete Guide 
to Vegan Food Substitutions . You can get in touch with her at Celine@havecakewilltravel.com.Acknowledgments
 Jill Alexander, for making this project sound irresistible and for convincing us to dive into it head-
ﬁ rst; our editor and friend Amanda Waddell, for being such an inspiration and a joy to work with; and 
Will Kiester, Rosalind Wanke, and Karen Levy: We couldn’t have done it without your expertise and 
kindness!
We are, as always, most grateful and forever indebted to the Ofﬁ  cial Testing Team: Courtney Blair, 
Monika Soria Caruso, Kelly Cavalier, Michelle Cavigliano, Anne-Laure Chevallier, Amy Gedgaudas, 
Jenny Howard, Annika Lundin, Shelly Mocquet-McDonald, Monique and Michel Narbel-Gimzia, 
Constanze Reichardt, Josiane Richer, Keri Risse, Nina Stoma, and Liz Wyman (a.k.a. Missus Super 
Tester who tested approximately 70 of our recipes!).
Joni would like to thank her Gramma Jo: My grandmother, Joann, has fed me many meals. She is 
solely responsible for my oversized portions and my tendency to make WAY too much food. She has 
cooked for many people, for many years, and through her I have been inspired to take on the world 
with a knife and fork! Thank you, Gramma, for inspiring me, having faith in me, and teaching me so 
much without even trying. I love you!
Celine would like to thank her parents and Chaz for wearing their cheerleader outﬁ  ts at all times, 
shaking their pom-poms at her even when she acts like a professional stress ball. Thank you, Jeanette 
(www.jeanettezeis.com), for providing the props made by your very own two insanely talented hands.
HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 264265Index
A
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
all-purpose ﬂ  our
Avocado Rolls, 194
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Basic Pie Crust, 234
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
Chick’ n’ Wafﬂ  es Party, 109
Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Funnel Cake, 230
Garlic Knots, 202
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
Juliette Brioche, 184
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender
 Pancakes, 260
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Piña Colada French Toast with
 Candied Macadamia Nuts, 20
Scarborough Fair Buns, 195
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
White Panini Rolls, 196
White Sausage Gravy, 33
almond butter, 238
almond milk, 228, 229, 231
almonds
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Altella Spread, 218
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Spinach Pesto, 210
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Altella Spread, 62, 63, 218
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
apples
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
artichokes, 171
arugula, 84, 85, 90
asparagus, 166
Avocado Rolls, 194
avocados
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Taco Salad, 118
B
bacon, vegan, 34. See also  bacon
 bits, imitation; Tempeh Bacon
Cobb Sandwich, 90Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
bacon bits, imitation
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 191
Bacon Onion Puffs, 174, 175
Colcannon Patties, 100
The Double Take, 91
German Potato Salad, 168
Hearty Breakfast Bowl, 35
Home Fries with Chipotle BBQ 
Seasoning, 151
Imitation Bacon Bits, 216
Irish Nachos, 149
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Pasta all Carb-onara, 140, 141
Root Beer Beans, 167
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 123, 191
Bacon Onion Puffs, 174, 175
Bacon-Wrapped Water Chestnuts, 150
bagels
Kale Bagels, 186, 187
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
Baked Asparagus with Mushroom Sauce, 166
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut Holes,
66, 67
baked goods. See also  breads
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Avocado Rolls, 194
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Basic Pie Crust, 234
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Cinnamon Swirl Bread, 182, 183
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Garlic Knots, 202
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Grasshopper Pie, 240
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
Kale Bagels, 186, 187
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB 
Frosting and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Scarborough Fair Buns, 195
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
Spelt Flour Tortillas, 198, 199
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil 
Flatbread, 203
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
White Panini Rolls, 196
baked goods pans, 12
bakes. See casseroles
baking mats, 13
baking tips, 13
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
bananas
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Peanut Butter Molasses Shake, 224, 225
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Barbecue Ribs, 104
bars
Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
Sugar Rush Cereal Bars, 248
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
Basic Pie Crust, 123, 124, 125, 234
basil
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Spinach Pesto, 210
Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil 
Flatbread, 203
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
beans, 14
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli, 136
Pico de Gallo, 206
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
Root Beer Beans, 167
Taco Salad, 118
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Beefy-Cheesy Mac, 135
beer, vegan
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Colcannon Patties, 100
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
bell peppers. See green bell peppers;
 red bell peppers
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
beverages
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
black beans
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Pico de Gallo, 206
Root Beer Beans, 167
Taco Salad, 118
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
black trufﬂ  e oil, 152
blenders, 12
blueberries
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
bok choy, Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 266bread ﬂ  our, 186, 187, 202
breads, 181–203
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Avocado Rolls, 194
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 191
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
Cinnamon Swirl Bread, 182, 183
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Garlic Knots, 202
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Irish Soda Bread, 190
Juliette Brioche, 184
Kale Bagels, 186, 187
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Scarborough Fair Buns, 195
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
Spelt Flour Tortillas, 198, 199
Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil 
Flatbread, 203
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
Sweet Whole-Wheat Rye Bread, 188, 189
Tempeh, Pepper, and Spinach-Pesto 
Sandwich, 84, 85
White Panini Rolls, 196
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak, 32, 109
breakfast dishes, 19–67
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut Holes, 
66, 67
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak, 32
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42
Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
Coconut Crème Brûlée Baked Oatmeal, 43
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Hearty Breakfast Bowl, 35
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips, 38
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
The Monte Cristo, 83
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Real Men Eat Quiche Lorraine, 39
Salty Sweet Oats, 24, 25
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
White Sausage Gravy, 33
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
broccoli
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Haute Pockets, 98, 99
Roasted Broccoli and Garlic Pizza, 143
Roasted Broccotato Soup with Bacon-
Flavored Chickpeas, 70Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot Pie, 124, 125
buns, 195
burgers
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
burritos
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
butters, 15
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
C
cabbage
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Taco Salad, 118
Cake Batter Ice Cream, 222, 227
cakes
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Funnel Cake, 230
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound Cakes, 
258, 259
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
cannellini beans, 136
capers
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli, 136
Salade Russe, 170
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
caraway seeds, 190
carrots
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Pickled Peppers, 217
Salade Russe, 170
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
cashews
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Hearty Breakfast Bowl, 35
Pasta Alfredo, 136
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Tofu Mayo, 211
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
casseroles, 126, 127, 128, 129
cast-iron skillets, 12
cauliﬂ  ower
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
cayenne pepper, 214, 216
celery, 163
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
cheddar cheese, vegan
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
cheese, vegan. See also  speciﬁ  c kinds of 
cheese
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 191
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
The Double Take, 91
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
The Monte Cristo, 83
Mozzarella, 214, 215
Mucho Macho Nachos, 148
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Real Men Eat Quiche Lorraine, 39
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
cheesecake, savory, 120, 121
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
cherries
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Chestnut Cream Spread, 218, 219, 256
chicken, vegan
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Chick’ n’ Wafﬂ  es Party, 109
Chi-fu, 116
The Double Take, 91
Homemade Chi-Fu, 116
Orange Chipotle Wings, 154, 155
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
chickpea ﬂ  our, 39
chickpeas
Bacon-Flavored Chickpeas, 70
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Roasted Broccotato Soup with 
Spicy Chickpeas, 163
Chi-fu, BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
chili, 80, 81, 94
chili powder, 80, 81, 151, 207, 216
chipotle and adobo sauce, 154, 155
chipotle peppers, 40, 41
chives, 36, 37, 174, 175
chocolate. See also  chocolate chips; cocoa 
powder; white chocolate chips
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Peanut Butter Cups, 232, 233
chocolate chips
Altella Spread, 218
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
S’More Pie, 235
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Sugar Rush Cereal Bars, 248
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81, 128, 129
Chocolate Syrup, 227
chorizo, vegan, 216. See also  TVP Chorizo
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Taco Salad, 118
TVP Chorizo, 216
cilantro
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165INDEX 267Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Green Potatoes, 169
Orange Chipotle Wings, 154, 155
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
cinnamon
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Cinnamon Swirl Bread, 182, 183
Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Cobb Sandwich, 90
cocoa, 235
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
cocoa powder
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Chocolate Syrup, 227
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
coconut cream, 184
Coconut Crème Brûlée Baked Oatmeal, 43
coconut ﬂ  akes, Old-Fashioned Coconut 
Cake, 257
coconut ﬂ  our, Banana Cream Pie Cake with 
Chestnut Glaze, 256
coconut milk
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Chestnut Cream Spread, 218, 219
Coconut Crème Brûlée Baked Oatmeal, 43
Fried Green (or Yellow, or Red) 
Tomatoes, 177
Fritter Fried Okra, 173Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
Pasta all Carb-onara, 140, 141
Peanut Butter Fudge, 234
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Spelt Flour Tortillas, 198, 199
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
coffee, 223, 250, 251
Coffee Bean Ice Cream, 223
coffee beans, 223
Coffee Syrup, 223
Colcannon Patties, 100
coleslaw
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Colcannon Patties, 100
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
collard greens, 173
condiments, 205–219
Altella Spread, 218
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Chestnut Cream Spread, 218, 219
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
Imitation Bacon Bits, 216
Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette, 
208, 209
Mozzarella, 214, 215
Pickled Peppers, 217
Pico de Gallo, 206
Salsa Verde, 206
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
Spinach Pesto, 210
Super Easy Marinade, 209
Tofu Mayo, 211
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
TVP Chorizo, 216
TVP Pepperoni, 214
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles, 212cookies
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
cooking tips, 13
cookware, 12–13
corn
Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Hush Puppies, 159
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Taco Salad, 118
cornbread
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
cornmeal
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Hush Puppies, 159
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
cornstarch, 212
cranberries
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
cream cheese, nondairy
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Crispy Mac and Cheese Balls, 158
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Grasshopper Pie, 240
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 207
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
Pasta Alfredo, 136
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
S’More Pie, 235
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
creamer, nondairy, 222, 223, 226, 253
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
cremini mushrooms, 72, 73
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Crispy Mac and Cheese Balls, 158
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
cucumbers, 82
cumin, 80, 81, 151, 206, 216
cupcakes
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB 
Frosting and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
curry powder, 72, 73
D
dark rye ﬂ  our, 188, 189
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
deep fryers, 12
deli “meat,” vegan, 83
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
desserts. See sweets, 221–262
Dijon mustard, 83
dill
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37Cobb Sandwich, 90
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
The Monte Cristo, 83
Mustard Sauce, 207
Salade Russe, 170
The Double Take, 91, 109
doughnuts
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
dressings, 208, 209
E
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta Salad, 171
Eat Your Collard Greens, 173
edamame, 150
eggplant
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
egg replacer, 14, 260
F
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
farro, 136
fennel
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and Cheese, 134
ﬂ atbread, 203
ﬂ our, 13, 14, 16. See also  speciﬁ  c kinds of ﬂ  our
food allergy icons, 17
food proc essors, 12
food scales, 12
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
French bread, 20, 21, 23
french toast
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Fried Green (or Yellow, or Red) Tomatoes, 177
frittatas, 42, 132, 133
Fritter Fried Okra, 173
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
fudge, 234, 246, 247
Funnel Cake, 230
G
garam masala, 92, 93
garbanzo fava bean ﬂ  our, 94, 156
garlic
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
Green Potatoes, 169
Hush Puppies, 159
Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette, 208, 209
Roasted Broccoli and Garlic Pizza, 143
Spinach Pesto, 210
Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil 
Flatbread, 203
Garlic Knots, 202
Garlic Knots dough, 144, 145
garlic powder, 168
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
German Potato Salad, 168
ginger, 130, 261
glazes, 53
gluten free recipes, 17
Altella Spread, 218
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Chestnut Cream Spread, 218, 219
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
Green Potatoes, 169
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
Home Fries with Chipotle BBQ 
Seasoning, 151HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 268Imitation Bacon Bits, 216
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 207
Pickled Peppers, 217
Pico de Gallo, 206
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
Salade Russe, 170
Salsa Verde, 206
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
Spinach Pesto, 210
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
TVP Pepperoni, 214, 215
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Grasshopper Pie, 240
graters, 13
gravy, 33
green bell peppers
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
Hush Puppies, 159
Sloppy Jo-nis, 96, 97
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
green chiles
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Pico de Gallo, 206
Green Potatoes, 169
guacamole, 126, 169, 194
guarillo peppers, 132, 133
H
Ham-ish Saucisses, 156
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
Haute Pockets, 98, 99
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Hearty Breakfast Bowl, 35
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Hearty Meatloaf Sandwich, 101
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
hemp seeds, 185, 213
herbs, 15
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips, 35,
 38, 39, 150
Home Fries
Home Fries with Chipotle BBQ 
Seasoning, 151
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Homemade Chi-Fu, 116
horseradish, 108, 209
hot dogs
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
hot sauce, 16. See also  Sriracha sauce
Hush Puppies, 159
I
iceberg lettuce, 90
ice cream
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Cake Batter Ice Cream, 222
Coffee Bean Ice Cream, 223
Mint Chip Ice Cream, 226
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Simply Vanilla Ice Cream, 226
Imitation Bacon Bits, 216
immersion blenders, 12
ingredients, 14–16
Irish Nachos, 149
Irish Soda Bread, 190
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101
J
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
jalapeños
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Irish Nachos, 149
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
Pickled Peppers, 217
Pico de Gallo, 206
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Salsa Verde, 206
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Juliette Brioche, 184
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Piña Colada French Toast with
 Candied Macadamia Nuts, 20
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
K
kale, 172, 186, 187
kidney beans, 167
knives, 12
L
lasagna, 127, 139
lassi, 261
leeks, 72, 73
legumes. See beans; speciﬁ  c legumes
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
lemons, 46, 47, 58, 59, 114, 115, 136
Lentil and Bacon Pot o’ Stew, 74, 75
lettuce, 88, 89, 90
limes, 118, 207, 261
liquid smoke, 14, 104, 106, 107, 108, 110, 
111, 213, 214, 216
low fat recipes, 17
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Pickled Peppers, 217
Pico de Gallo, 206
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
Root Beer Beans, 167
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Tofu Jerky, 160, 161
White Panini Rolls, 196
M
macadamia nuts, 20, 128, 129
maca powder, 14, 123, 128, 129, 137, 168, 185, 212
macaroni and cheese, 134, 135, 158
main dishes, 69–145
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Barbecue Ribs, 104
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Beefy-Cheesy Mac, 135
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot Pie, 
124, 125
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Chick’ n’ Wafﬂ  es Party, 109
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Colcannon Patties, 100
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
The Double Take, 91
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
Haute Pockets, 98, 99
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Hearty Meatloaf Sandwich, 101
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
Lentil and Bacon Pot o’ Stew, 74, 75
The Monte Cristo, 83
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Pasta alla Formiana, 137
Pasta all Carb-onara, 140, 141
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli, 136
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Polish Sausage, 106, 107
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
Roasted Broccoli and Garlic Pizza, 143
Roasted Broccotato Soup with Bacon-
Flavored Chickpeas, 70
Sauerkraut and Dumplins, 131
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Sloppy Jo-nis, 96, 97
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Sweet and Sour Meatballs, 105
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Taco Salad, 118
Tempeh, Pepper, and Spinach-Pesto 
Sandwich, 84, 85
Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Twice-Baked Spaghetti, 141
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette, 208, 209
mandarin oranges, 56
mango chutney, 92, 93
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
maple syrup, 64, 65, 241
margaritas, 261
marinades, 209
Marinated Strawberries, 26, 231, 239marshmallows, vegan, 248, 255, 258, 259
masa harina ﬂ  our, 42
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
mayonnaise, vegan
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
The Double Take, 91
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 207The Monte Cristo, 83
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Salade Russe, 170
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Taco Salad, 118
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
meatballs, vegan, 105
meatloaf, vegan, 101
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 
159, 207
microplane graters, 13
milk, nondairy, 15. See also  almond milk; 
soymilk
Altella Spread, 218
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Cake Batter Ice Cream, 222
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
The Captain’s French Toast, 23INDEX 269Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
Coffee Bean Ice Cream, 223
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Mint Chip Ice Cream, 226
The Monte Cristo, 83
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Peanut Butter Molasses Shake, 224, 225
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound Cakes, 
258, 259
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
Simply Vanilla Ice Cream, 226
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
Mint Chip Ice Cream, 226
mise en place , 13
miso
Beefy-Cheesy Mac, 135
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
Irish Nachos, 149
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
molasses, 16 7, 188, 189
The Monte Cristo, 83
mozzarella, vegan, 214, 215. See also  Daiya
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 191
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Mucho Macho Nachos, 148
mufﬁ  ns
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
mufﬁ  n tins, 12
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
mushrooms
Baked Asparagus with Mushroom 
Sauce, 166
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
mustard, 83, 207, 209, 210, 211
Mustard Sauce, 207
N
nachos, 148, 149
noodles, 76, 113. See also  pasta
nut butters, 15
nuts, 229
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Altella Spread, 218
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
Pasta alla Formiana, 137Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
Spinach Pesto, 210
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles, 212
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
O
oatmeal, 43
oats
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Coconut Crème Brûlée Baked Oatmeal, 43
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Salty Sweet Oats, 24, 25
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
okra, Fritter Fried Okra, 173
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
olives
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Pasta alla Formiana, 137
onions. See also  scallions; shallots
Bacon Onion Puffs, 174, 175
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
German Potato Salad, 168
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Hush Puppies, 159
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Real Men Eat Quiche Lorraine, 39
Salade Russe, 170
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Sweet and Sour Meatballs, 105
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
orange bell peppers, 78, 79
Orange Chipotle Wings, 154, 155
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese Mufﬁ  ns, 56
orange juice, 77, 88, 89, 154, 155, 170
orange marmalade, 15, 92, 93, 102, 103, 172
oranges
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
Orange Chipotle Wings, 154, 155
Orange Cranberry Cream Cheese 
Mufﬁ  ns, 56
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
oregano, 80, 81, 142, 162
P
pancakes
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender Pancakes, 260
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
pans, 12
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
paprika, 83, 214, 216
parsley, 195, 208, 209
pasta. See also  noodles
Beefy-Cheesy Mac, 135
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Crispy Mac and Cheese Balls, 158
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
Pasta Alfredo, 136
Pasta alla Formiana, 137
Pasta all Carb-onara, 140, 141
Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli, 136
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Twice-Baked Spaghetti, 141
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
peaches, 241
peanut butter
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Peanut Butter Cups, 232, 233
Peanut Butter Fudge, 234
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
peanuts, 130, 227, 234
pearl onions, 217
peas
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Pasta all Carb-onara, 140, 141
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Salade Russe, 170
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
pecans
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
pepper, 15, 172
pepperoncinis, 171
pepperoni, vegan, 144, 162, 214. See also  
TVP Pepperoni
Pesto, Farro, and Fagioli, 136
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Pickled Peppers, 217
pickles, 217
Pico de Gallo, 148, 206
pies
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Basic Pie Crust, 234
Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot Pie, 
124, 125
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Grasshopper Pie, 240HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 270Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
S’More Pie, 235
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Piña Colada French Toast with Candied 
Macadamia Nuts, 20
pineapple
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
pineapple juice, 261
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
pinto beans
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
Root Beer Beans, 167
Taco Salad, 118
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
pizza
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Roasted Broccoli and Garlic Pizza, 143
poblano peppers, 178, 179
Polish Sausage, 106, 107
Popcorn Peppers, 176
poppy seeds, 88, 89
portobello mushrooms, 71
potatoes
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Colcannon Patties, 100
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
German Potato Salad, 168
Green Potatoes, 169
Home Fries with Chipotle BBQ 
Seasoning, 151
Orange Seitan Stew, 77Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Roasted Broccotato Soup with
 Bacon-Flavored Chickpeas, 70
Salade Russe, 170
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Twice-Baked Potatoes, 153
pot pies
Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot 
Pie, 124, 125
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
prep guide, 11–17
pretzels, 192, 193, 239
pudding
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
puff pastry, vegan, 98, 99, 112, 122, 
174, 175, 245
pumpkin purée, 52, 53
Q
quick and easy recipes, 17
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
The Captain’s French Toast, 23
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
Eat Your Collard Greens, 173
French Toast Dipsticks, 21
Green Potatoes, 169
Hemp Almond Parmesan, 213
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 207
Mozzarella, 214, 215
Pasta Alfredo, 136
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
Salty Sweet Oats, 24, 25
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
Spicy Chickpeas, 163
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Tofu Mayo, 211
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
TVP Chorizo, 216
TVP Pepperoni, 214, 215
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles, 212
White Sausage Gravy, 33
R
radishes, Pickled Peppers, 217
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
raisins
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
Go Bananas Bread, 60, 61
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
raspberries, 43
Real Men Eat Quiche Lorraine, 39
recipe icons, 17
recipes, reading, 13
red bell peppers. See also  roasted red peppers
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Breakfast Potatoes O’Brien, 30
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
red onions, 82, 88, 89, 113, 170, 171. 
red peppers, roasted, 84, 85
“ribs,” 104
rice, 72, 73
rice pudding, 231
Roasted Broccoli and Garlic Pizza, 143
Roasted Broccotato Soup with Bacon-Flavored 
Chickpeas, 70
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
roasted red peppers, 84, 85, 132, 133
rolls
Avocado Rolls, 194
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
White Panini Rolls, 196
romaine lettuce, 88, 89, 90
root beer, 167
Root Beer Beans, 167
rosemary, 195
S
sage, 195
salad dressings. See dressings
Salade Russe, 170
salads
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
German Potato Salad, 168
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
Salade Russe, 170
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Taco Salad, 118
salsa
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Pico de Gallo, 206
Salsa Verde, 206Taco Salad, 118Salsa Verde, 206
salt, 15
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Salty Sweet Oats, 24, 25
sambal oelek, 15
sandwiches
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
BBQ Slaw Tacos, 116
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
The Double Take, 91
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Haute Pockets, 98, 99
Hearty Meatloaf Sandwich, 101
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 110, 111
The Monte Cristo, 83
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Piggies in a Blanket, 112
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Sloppy Jo-nis, 96, 97
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Tempeh, Pepper, and Spinach-Pesto 
Sandwich, 84, 85
Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
sauces, 16, 205–219
Creamy Cheesy Sauce, 212
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Mexican-Style Dipping Sauce for Corn, 207Mustard Sauce, 207
Pico de Gallo, 206
Salsa Verde, 206
Whiskey Barbecue Sauce, 210
saucisses, Ham-ish Saucisses, 156
Saucisses, Haute Pockets, 98, 99
sauerkraut, Sauerkraut and Dumplins, 131
Sauerkraut and Dumplins, 131
sausage, 106, 107
Sautéed Cheese Tortellini, 138
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
scales, 12
scallions
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
German Potato Salad, 168
Irish Nachos, 149
Kale with a Kick, 172
Mamou’s Magical Vinaigrette, 208, 209
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
Salsa Verde, 206
Scalloped Potato Pie, 122
Scarborough Fair Buns, 195
scones, 46, 47
seaweed, 14
seitan
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
The Double Take, 91
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Seitan Burgers, 80, 81, 94
sesame oil, 113
sesame seeds, 213
Sesame Udon Stir-Fry, 113
shallots
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot Pie, 
124, 125
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Green Potatoes, 169
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Kale with a Kick, 172
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Pot Pie Explosion, 123
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
Sheese, 82. See also  cheese, veganINDEX 271side dishes, 147–179
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
Bacon Onion Puffs, 174, 175
Bacon-Wrapped Water Chestnuts, 150
Baked Asparagus with Mushroom Sauce, 
166
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
Crispy Mac and Cheese Balls, 158
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Deli-Style Macaroni Salad, 170
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Eat Your Collard Greens, 173
Fried Green (or Yellow, or Red) 
Tomatoes, 177
Fritter Fried Okra, 173
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
German Potato Salad, 168
Green Potatoes, 169
Ham-ish Saucisses, 156
Home Fries with Chipotle BBQ
 Seasoning, 151
Hush Puppies, 159
Irish Nachos, 149
Kale with a Kick, 172
Mucho Macho Nachos, 148
Orange Chipotle Wings, 154, 155
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Slow Cooker Cocktail Weenies, 157
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
Spicy Chickpeas, 163
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
Tofu Jerky, 160, 161
Twice-Baked Potatoes, 153
sifting, 13
silicone baking mats, 13
Simply Vanilla Ice Cream, 226
Skillet Cornbread, 120, 121, 200, 201
skillets, 12Sloppy Jo-nis, 96, 97
Slow Cooker Cocktail Weenies, 157
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Smoky Pub Cheese, 91, 95, 213
S’More Pie, 235
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
soups
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Lentil and Bacon Pot o’ Stew, 74, 75
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Pesto Pea-damame Soup, 150
Roasted Broccotato Soup with Bacon-
Flavored Chickpeas, 70
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
sour cream, nondairy
Bacon Onion Puffs, 174, 175
Better Love Your Beans Bake, 126
Cheesy Garlic Mashed Potatoes, 168
Cornbread-Stuffed Poblanos, 178, 179
Creamed Corn with Bacon, 176
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
Pasta Alfredo, 136
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
Southern Fried Cabbage, 177
soy chorizo, 42, 127. See also  chorizo, vegan
Soy Curls, 76, 90, 131soy free recipes, 17
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Ants on a Log in a Bowl, 163
Avocado Rolls, 194
Cauliﬂ  ower and Onion Pickles, 217
Chestnut Cream Spread, 218, 219
Garlic Trufﬂ  e Fries, 152
Maté Madness Margarita, 261
Pickled Peppers, 217
Pico de Gallo, 206
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
Pinto Bean Tortilla Rolls, 197
Popcorn Peppers, 176
Roasted Cauli-mole Salad, 169
Salsa Verde, 206
Salty Sweet Oats, 24, 25
Scarborough Fair Buns, 195
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
Spinach Pesto, 210
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
White Panini Rolls, 196
soymilk
Bacon Onion Biscuits, 191
Blueberry Buttermilk Pancakes, 27
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak, 32
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Chick’ n’ Wafﬂ  es Party, 109
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Chocolate Syrup, 227
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Cocoa Kahlúa Pancakes, 24
Creamy Mushroom Soup, 71
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Funnel Cake, 230
Hush Puppies, 159
Irish Soda Bread, 190
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
Mozzarella, 214, 215
Pasta Alfredo, 136
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Raisin Corn Breakfast Bread, 58, 59
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
Skillet Cornbread, 200, 201
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 172
soy sauce, 15, 130
spaghetti, 140, 141
spelt ﬂ  our, 198, 199
Spelt Flour Tortillas, 148, 198, 199
spices, 15. See also  speciﬁ  c spices
Spicy Chickpeas, 163
spinach
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Green Potatoes, 169
Spinach Pesto, 82, 136, 210
Tempeh, Pepper, and Spinach-Pesto 
Sandwich, 84, 85
Sriracha sauce, 16, 91, 130, 163, 210
stews
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Lentil and Bacon Pot o’ Stew, 74, 75
Orange Seitan Stew, 77
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
stir-fries, 113
strawberries
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Marinated Strawberries, 231
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
Pink Pucker, 262, 263
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Sugar Rush Cereal Bars, 248Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil Flatbread, 
203
Super Easy Marinade, 209
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185
Sweet and Sour Meatballs, 105
sweeteners, 16
Sweet Peppercorn Coleslaw, 86, 87, 172
Sweet Potato Po’ Boys, 86, 87
sweets, 221–262
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Altella Rolls, 62, 63
Apple Pie with Pecan Crust, 236, 237
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut Holes, 
66, 67
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Basic Pie Crust, 234
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Cake Batter Ice Cream, 222
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Chocolate Syrup, 227
Coffee Bean Ice Cream, 223
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
Crispy Glazed Cherry Pie Bites, 245
Frangipane Rice Pudding, 231
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Funnel Cake, 230
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Grasshopper Pie, 240
Handheld Blueberry Pies, 244June’s Swedish Dessert Blender Pancakes, 
260
Lemon–Poppy Seed Scones, 46, 47
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Marinated Strawberries, 231
Mint Chip Ice Cream, 226
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
Peanut Butter Cups, 232, 233
Peanut Butter Fudge, 234
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Peanut Butter Molasses Shake, 224, 225
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound Cakes, 
258, 259
Pecan Peach Gobble-r à la Mode, 241
Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Simply Vanilla Ice Cream, 226
S’More Pie, 235
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Sugar Rush Cereal Bars, 248
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
Sweet Whole-Wheat Rye Bread, 188, 189
Sweet Yeast Bread Mufﬁ  ns, 57
T
tacos, 116
Taco Salad, 118
tahini
Cheesy Chili Bake, 128, 129
Falafel and Tahini Sauce, 114, 115
Kale with a Kick, 172
Smoky Pub Cheese, 213
Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
tempeh, 16. See also  Tempeh Bacon
Tempeh, Pepper, and Spinach-Pesto 
Sandwich, 84, 85
Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
Tempeh Bacon
Brussels Sprout and Chestnut Pot Pie, 
124, 125
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Lentil and Bacon Pot o’ Stew, 74, 75HEARTY VEGAN MEALS FOR MONSTER APPETITES 272Tempehitan Burgers, 92, 93
temperature, 13
tequila, 261
thermometers, 13
thyme, 195
tofu, 16
Bacon and Egg Breakfast Sandwich, 36, 37
Black and Braised Tofu, 119
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Creamy All-in-One Bowl, 130
Creamy Banana Pie, 238
East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Five-Cheese Baked Macaroni and 
Cheese, 134
Green Potatoes, 169
Hawaiian Benedict, 34
Hearty Breakfast Bowl, 35
Homemade Chi-Fu, 116
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101
Peanut Butter Ice Cream, 224
Real Men Eat Quiche Lorraine, 39
Savory Cheesecake, 120, 121
S’More Pie, 235
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Tofu Jerky, 160, 161
Tofu Mayo, 211
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Tofu Jerky, 160, 161
Tofu Mayo, 211
Tofu Sour Cream, 211
tomatillos, 206
tomatoes
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Chocolate Stout Chili, 80, 81
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162East Coast Meets West Coast Pasta 
Salad, 171
Eggplant Parmigiana, 142
Fried Green (or Yellow, or Red) 
Tomatoes, 177
Irish Nachos, 149
Panzanella Sandwiches, 82
Pasta alla Formiana, 137
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Pico de Gallo, 206
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Sun-Dried Tomato, Garlic, and Basil 
Flatbread, 203
Tofuevos Rancheros, 40, 41
Twice-Baked Spaghetti, 141
Top of the Mufﬁ  n to You! Chocolate Glaze, 53
tortilla chips, 197
tortillas
Breakfast Burrito, 31
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Mucho Macho Nachos, 148
Spelt Flour Tortillas, 198, 199
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
TVP (textured vegetable protein), 16. See 
also TVP Chorizo; TVP Pepperoni
Beefy-Cheesy Mac, 135
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Crispy Burritos con Carne, 117
Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup, 76
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips, 38
Imitation Bacon Bits, 216
Jalapeño Hot Dogs, 
110, 111
Polish Sausage, 106, 107
Sauerkraut and Dumplins, 131
Sloppy Jo-nis, 96, 97
Slow Cooker Cocktail Weenies, 157Sweet and Sour Meatballs, 105
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
TVP Chorizo, 216
Chorizo and Egg Frittata, 42
Chorizo and Potato Lasagna Bake, 127
Chorizo Flautas, 164, 165
Stew-Tatouille, 78, 79
Taco Salad, 118
TVP Pepperoni, 214
Crispy Pepperoni Bites, 162
Deep-Dish Pizza Pie, 144
Twice-Baked Potatoes, 153
Twice-Baked Spaghetti, 141
U
Ultimate Patty Melt, 95
V
vanilla
AB and C Pudding, 228, 229
Banana Cream Pie Cake with Chestnut 
Glaze, 256
Butterscotch Ice Cream Cake, 227
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Funnel Cake, 230
Grasshopper Pie, 240
June’s Swedish Dessert Blender 
Pancakes, 260
Mint Chip Ice Cream, 226
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257Red-Eye Treats, 250, 251
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Simply Vanilla Ice Cream, 226
Strawberry Cream Pretzel Pie, 239
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
vegetable broth, 70, 76, 77, 78, 79, 94, 
108, 150, 213
vinegar, 82, 90, 209, 211
vital wheat gluten ﬂ  our, 16
Barbecue Ribs, 104
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak, 32
Cinnamon Swirl Bread, 182, 183
Ham-ish Saucisses, 156
Hickory-Smoked Breakfast Strips, 38
I Would Do Anything for (Meat)Loaf, 101
Patatas Bravas Frittata, 132, 133
Polish Sausage, 106, 107
Seitan Burgers for Stews and Chilis, 94
Slow Cooker Russian Chicken, 108
Sweet and Sour Meatballs, 105
W
wafﬂ es
Banana Split Wafﬂ  es, 28, 29
Overnight Oat Pancakes or Wafﬂ  es, 26
Waldorf Salad Wraps, 88, 89
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles, 134, 212
walnuts
Pasta alla Formiana, 137
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Pesto con Gusto Pizza, 145
Traditional Red Lasagna, 139
Walnut Parmesan Sprinkles, 212
water chestnuts, 150
wheat germ, 52, 53
whiskey, 210, 262, 263
Whiskey Barbecue Sauce, 104, 116, 210
white chocolate chips
Peanut Butter Cupcakes with PB Frosting 
and PB Cup Chunks, 252
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
White Panini Rolls, 196
White Sausage Gravy, 33, 109
white whole wheat ﬂ  our
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Irish Soda Bread, 190
Soft Peanut Butter Pretzels, 192, 193
Super-Tender Whole Wheat Bagels, 185Sweet Whole-Wheat Rye Bread, 188, 189
Vanilla Pudding Cupcakes, 253
whole wheat ﬂ  our, 104. See also  white whole 
wheat ﬂ  our; whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
whole wheat pastry ﬂ  our
Baked BBQ Buns, 102, 103
Breakfast Chicken-Fried Steak, 32
Chocolate Pecan Mufﬁ  ns, 52, 53
Cinnamon-y Breakfast Cereal Cookies, 
44, 45
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Fudge Cookies, 246, 247
Polish Sausage, 106, 107
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
wings, 154, 155
wraps, 88, 89
Y
yeast, 16
yeast, nutritional, 15
yellow bell peppers, 78, 79, 170
yogurt, nondairy
Baked Cinnamon Sugar Doughnut 
Holes, 66, 67
Cappuccino Mufﬁ  ns, 54, 55
Cobb Sandwich, 90
Fruity Creamsicle Whoopie Pies, 242, 243
Graham Cracker Cake, 254, 255
Maple Bacon Doughnuts, 64, 65
Mulligatawny Soup, 72, 73
Mustard Sauce, 207
Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake, 257
PB and Om Mufﬁ  ns, 48, 49
Peanut Butter Rocky Road Pound 
Cakes, 258, 259
Pineapple Ginger Lassi, 261
Salty Sweet Oat Cookies, 248
Super Streusel-y Mufﬁ  ns, 50, 51
White Chocolate Almond Bars, 249
Z
zucchini, 78, 79Text © 2011 Celine Steen and Joni Marie Newman
Photography and Design © 2011 Fair Winds Press
First published in the USA in 2011 by
Fair Winds Press, a member of Quayside Publishing Group100 Cummings CenterSuite 406-LBeverly, MA 01915-6101www.fairwindspress.com
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized, in any form or by any 
means, electronic or mechanical, without prior permission in writing from the publisher.
15 14 13 12 11    1 2 3 4 5 
ISBN-13: 978-1-59233-455-1
ISBN-10: 1-59233-455-5Digital edition published in 2011eISBN-13: 978-1-61058-059-5
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data available
Book layout by MeganJonesDesign.com
Photography by Celine Steen
Printed and bound in Singapore
Digital edition: 978-1-61058-059-5
Softcover edition: 978-1-59233-455-1