laurel’s foreword  / 11laurel’s foreword
If I didn’t have a very good sense 
of humor and love Zoe with every ﬁber of my being, I’d probably want to strangle her most days. In fact, at this moment I want to strangle her. We are right up against our deadline for this book, and she is creating new recipes like a mad scientist. Of course, few of them will make any sense when she hands them to me to ﬂesh out. Most will have at least three measurements wrong, and the bake times will only be vaguely in the ballpark. But after years of working side by side at all hours of the night and day, in all states of body and mind, including her at nine months pregnant or me with my jaw wired shut after major surgery, all I need is a sketch to know what she means. T o me that is one of the most precious things about our partnership.
Before meeting Zoe, I had been a 
ﬁlmmaker, with a little ﬁlm of mine screening at Sundance. But after I poured my heart and soul into a screenplay that struggled to get ﬁnancing, and my writing partner-ship grew impossible to navigate, I became downright miserable. The only thing that grounded me at the end of the day was standing by my stove stirring risotto and sipping wine.Around that time, while listening to KCRW’s Good Food , I heard that it was 
to be Rustic Canyon’s very last Satur-day Morning Breakfast. So I dragged my then-boyfriend to the car, barely out of his pajamas, for one last bread pudding experience.
We ordered far too much food. 
Numerous pastries, brisket hash; it was silly. Needless to say, a to-go box was required. We gave up our table and I loaded up my box by the coffee station. But I didn’t know what to do with our dirty dishes; I didn’t want to leave a gross mess next to the cream and sugar. I was  looking around at a loss and said over my shoulder to my honey, “I need a busser.”
Zoe in her apron appeared beside 
me saying, “You need me,” and took the plates from my hands with an easy grin.
I know it was a simple thing, but it 
ﬂoored me. She was so humble, warm, and generous. She and her food made total sense to me, and I thought, “I think I do need you.”
The next day, I knocked on the 
kitchen door and handed my resume to Josh. A few days later when Zoe called me I just squealed into the phone with uncontrollable joy at the sound of her voice. Fortunately, this made her laugh and I think it gave us both the sense that we could probably work together.
I started to intern in the Rustic 
kitchen. Shortly after, our little pastry operation moved from a tiny corner of that kitchen to a bakery kitchen all our own. I was sure there had been a scheduling error when I saw I was to work as Morning Baker on Huck’s opening day. 
For days before, we made what we 
thought were big batches of anything that could be prepared ahead, and ﬁlled our freezer with raw biscuits, scones, and crostatas. We thought we were set up for a week. 
We went through it all on opening day. In the beginning, we scrambled to 
keep up. All the while, things seemed to be falling apart around us. The prep girl we counted on to set us up would blow it, and we would start the  morning wildly behind. Or our bread baker would just not show up, and we would have to tackle her  station at the same time as our own. Misﬁres on the line would force Zoe to help fry eggs until the guys were out of the weeds. And our 12 / huckleberrypurveyors would sometimes simply 
forget to deliver something crucial like milk. 
For a good two months it was mad-
ness. We worked six-day weeks,  fourteen-plus-hour days, growing more and more tired. Laughing was the only way we got through it all. We love to laugh. And we love to laugh at each other, perhaps the most. God forbid I have a new work ensemble, because I will be ridiculed all day for my palazzo pants or macramé cap.
When I think back on it now, I wonder 
how I did it. Why I did it. 
Through it all, every batch of biscuits 
had to be perfect, even if she had to make them herself. Every time I saw her kick a new dent in the freezer, destroying another pair of kitchen clogs and disappearing into the ofﬁce for a long while, I got scared. I would think, “This is ﬁnally it; that was the last straw. She can’t handle anymore; now I’m alone in this chaos.” But before too long, she would always emerge. Maybe her eyes were a little puffy, but she would go right back to her station and start her next task. And all it would take was one ridicu-lous customer modiﬁcation to get us laughing again.I think I hung in there with Zoe because I could see how determined she was. How passionate, and strong. I did not want to let down someone like that. Zoe was teaching me that yes, you can have your meltdowns in life; in fact, you are going to have 
them. But then you pull  yourself together and you pick up where you left off, undeterred.
I cannot thank Zoe enough for all 
the countless lessons she has taught me over time and look forward to many more to come.zoe’s introduction  / 13zoe’s introduction
I wear a lot of different hats in my pro-
fessional life. I’m a chef in charge of savory and pastry at Huckleberry, plus a restaurateur in charge of running several neighborhood businesses with my husband, but when people ask me what I do for a living, the answer is simple. I’m a baker.
Some people run, meditate, or do yoga  
to ﬁnd their peace of mind. I bake. I  have always loved baking, ever since  I was a kid making scones with my mom, but especially since that morn-ing when I walked by the window of Tartine Bakery in San Francisco and saw Chad Robertson and Liz Prueitt and a bunch of tough girls with tattoos  shaping croissants, making scones, and ﬁlling lemon tarts that would soon be topped with fresh ﬂowers and essentially begged them to take me on and teach me what they knew.
I love the process of baking, of working 
with just a handful of ingredients, and losing myself in my hands while  working to transform these ingredi-ents into something beautiful and delicious. I love taking a box of per-fect peaches back to the restaurant from the farmers’ market and turning them into sheet pans of whole-wheat peach squares, or peach crumble, or fresh peach preserves. When I’m baking, the ﬁnished product almost doesn’t matter; once I get into the simple peaceful acts of scaling,  mixing, and scooping, I’m satisﬁed. When I get stuck doing management stuff and get too far away from the kitchen, I become agitated and grumpy, and I begin to deeply crave getting my hands in some dough and making something. I’m generally not okay again until I do so.
Huckleberry started from the Satur-
day Morning Breakfasts we used to do at Rustic Canyon. I began doing these because I wasn’t satisﬁed just being the pastry chef at Rustic Canyon and I wanted to do more. I came from Tartine Bakery, which was always crazy-busy and where baked goods were the focus, to a restaurant where dessert was a complement to the rest of the meal, which people ordered only if they had managed to “save room.” I craved early mornings, high-volume baking, and the mad push to get dozens of baked goods out and beautifully displayed by 8 a.m.
One day I was out taking a walk with 
Josh and I told him about my desire to hijack his nighttime restaurant and turn it into a full-scale bakery one morning each week. I could tell he wasn’t very into the idea at the time but he loved me, so he was in a pretty tough spot. Josh can be pretty headstrong, but he also gets a really big kick out of a challenge, so we compromised: He agreed to do it and help as long as we didn’t hire anyone who wasn’t family and wouldn’t work for free and that I buy all the platters and supplies out of our own money.
A couple of Saturdays later, I arrived at 
the restaurant at 2:30 a.m. and started baking. Josh came with me and buttered the ring molds for crostatas and kept me company. My father, not only one of my favorite people on Earth but also incredibly talented and free labor, arrived at around 6:30 to prep his contribution, making pan-cakes, eggs, and fritattas, which he was famous for at our house but had certainly never done in a professional kitchen. Josh’s brother Gabe worked the front with Josh and made coffee. This was our team.
The ﬁrst couple of weeks weren’t that 
busy and would end with my father and me sitting at a table, exhausted, sharing a super-sized mimosa, won-dering if anyone would ever show up the following week. Those were famous last words. Pretty soon the word got out and the place was full. We screwed up so much because we 16 / huckleberrycouldn’t handle the volume, but the 
pastries looked great and I felt so good getting in there each morning super-early and working to put out an even bigger display of treats than the week before.
Josh ﬁnally realized that we had a 
good thing going and let me hire my friend Alice Park, who ended up helping me open Huckleberry, as well as one of our sassy line cooks, Renee Garcia, and my opening savory sous at Huckleberry, Tad Weyland. My dad stayed on, of course, and as we built this new family, which was a combination of my blood family and our restaurant family, all of whom we loved so much, we realized that it was time to ﬁnd a real home for this motley crew.
We opened Huckleberry in Febru- 
ary of the next year. Growing up, I always wanted to own a shop. Which kind wasn’t that important to me; I just wanted a place where everyone knew they could ﬁnd me at any hour of the day and visit me while I’m doing what I love. Huckleberry is my shop. When I think of Huckleberry I think abundance, slightly organized chaos, amazing early morning gossip, lots of blood, sweat, tears, and laughter. It’s a place where I can pull a tray of cinnamon rolls or a blueberry corn-meal cake out of the oven and walk one over to my mom or a regular who just sat down so they can eat it when it’s hot and perfect. I don’t get to do this every day, but I’ve gotten to do it a lot, and it makes me so happy when I do.
The display case at Huckleberry is 
the essence of abundance. It’s full to the brim with heaping platters of pastries, stacked high. At Huckleberry you order at the counter, but as you move toward the front, you pass all the goodies: bowls of farmers’ market salads; the abundant pastry case full of scones, mufﬁns, crostatas, cookies, and doughnuts; and then the dessert case full of puddings, cream pies, and caramels. This is on purpose! We want you to come in with the best of intentions and then decide to be naughty and get something sweet. Then we want to make sure it’s so good that you leave feeling that it was well worth it.
When I told people that I wanted to 
open a bakery in West Los Angeles, I was informed over and over again that it wouldn’t work because people don’t eat bread and pastries anymore. Well, luckily the naysayers were wrong. When someone comes into Huckleberry for breakfast and tries to abstain from pastries because they are trying to be “healthy,” I constantly want to yell (and those who know me know that sometimes I do), “Get off your juice fast! This is healthy; sitting 
down for a few moments and slowly eating a homemade mufﬁn with a beautiful latte is good for you. Yoga is not the only place you should slow down and breathe!”
I don’t think one needs to eat  pastry 
every day, but I do think that pastry when eaten and enjoyed  properly slows life down. I know, for me, baking slows life down. And I know for my son waiting for banana mufﬁns to bake in the oven can feel like a month, a very slow-moving month.
Huckleberry does a lot of things other 
than breakfast. We offer a full-scale lunch with dozens of sandwiches and farmers’ market–inspired salads. We make thousands of turkey meat-balls and mounds of brisket each 
week, roast off dozens of organic  chickens each day, and run a full-scale  catering operation. I’d love to write a bunch of books about Huckle-berry, but I started with breakfast because to me breakfast is where it all started. From those crazy Saturday zoe’s introduction  / 17mornings at Rustic where we got half 
of everyone’s orders wrong to the bakery girls being the ﬁrst ones in at 3 a.m. every day to ﬁlling the bakery case so it’s abundant and impossible to refuse ﬁrst thing in the morning to satisfying a groggy regular with his perfect cappuccino—this is the heart and soul of Huckleberry.
Of course, breakfast is more than just 
pastries. I may be a baker ﬁrst, but when I wake up I want eggs and bacon (with a little maple syrup), and I want them done right. I purposely chose to make Huckleberry more than just a bakery because I wanted to offer more. I wanted Huck to be an experi-ment in overabundance: big heaping bowls of brisket with perfectly cooked sunny-side-up eggs beside a blue-berry mufﬁn and a latte. I wanted a place where everyone could come and ﬁnd something they truly loved, be it a pastry or a bowl of quinoa with eggs. I wanted to give people a crazy moment of plenty as the ﬁrst experience of their day. You will never experience stinginess at Huck, th at’s a promise.
I love cookbooks and I’ve always wanted to write one, but until now it wasn’t the right time. I had enough recipes, had people who were interested in publishing it, but mainly I just wanted to be in the kitchen at work and not be bothered with the logistics of converting big recipes to home batches or recipe testing in a home kitchen or any of that. I baked all day at work; when I came home I wanted a glass of wine and a good movie, not to get in the kitchen and start baking again.
Then Josh and I had our son, Milo, 
and he began to eat and love food as much as his dad and I do, and all of a sudden everything changed. I started working way less, preferring to be home chasing him around. He started to want cookies, doughnuts, and other treats in my house, and I began to fall in love again with working in my own kitchen and giving him freshly baked goodies straight out of the oven. My counter at home now has freshly baked pastries on it, pumpkin mufﬁns, and homemade granola. We go over to a friend’s house and I bring a plate of cookies, baked with Milo as my assistant, rather than just something from Huckleberry. And I love it. I found my love of baking at home again, and th at’s what I want 
to share with you.
My love of breakfast began in a busy 
professional kitchen at 3 a.m. listening to loud music and cranking out as many pastries as our hands would allow. It continued as I watched customer after customer come into Huckleberry and enjoy a messy fried egg sandwich, and now it continues in my home when I wake each morning with excitement and anticipation as I wonder what I will make for Milo to start his day. I look forward to sharing all this with you, and hopefully you in turn share it with the people you love, because giving something you made with love to someone you love is just about the best feeling in the world.20 / huckleberrytips, secrets, and rules we live by
Because I am a professional baker, 
people make plenty of incorrect assumptions about me. They assume that I’m organized, good at math,  precise with measurements, and, at the very least, good at following a  recipe. The truth is I’m awful at all these things, but somehow I’ve  managed to open a successful bakery and restaurant. I think I survive as a baker and chef in spite of my short-comings because I trust my taste and intuition when it comes to making something good. Plus I’m not afraid to make dozens of batches of the same item until I get it just right.
There are two ways to use this book. 
You can ﬁnd recipes that look good to you and follow them to the letter: If you choose to wake up at 6 a.m. to surprise your family with mufﬁns made by exactly following one of our recipes, I promise you will be success ful and get a lot of extra love and appreciation from your family.
You can also use these recipes to give 
you guidance, messing around with them, inserting your own ideas, until you get it exactly as you want it. I will certainly not be offended if you tell me that you took one of my recipes and substituted one type of ﬂour for another, tried using coconut oil instead of butter because you wanted to make it for your vegan friend, or even switched fruit for chocolate or ginger for lemon.
Please remember baking is supposed 
to be fun, so don’t take yourself too seriously while you’re doing it. Also remember that no one is a “natural”; there is just the willingness to make mistakes, learn from them, and still love what you’re doing. That makes you “good.”
The same goes for the following tips 
and guidelines. I live by this list in my home and restaurant kitchens, but use them only if they ring true to you.tips, secrets, and rules we live by  / 21INGREDIENTS
GENERAL NOTES
In this book the eggs are large, the 
sugar is always granulated, except when indicated otherwise, and when measuring ingredients we don’t pack tightly.
USE GOOD INGREDIENTS
Try to buy organic and from suppliers that you know and trust. Not to sound like a total dork, but I do think this makes a huge difference both in  baking and our impact on the world. Plus, the better the fruit you use, the less sugar you need, which means you can eat more!
SEASONAL PRODUCE
Don’t make a fresh tomato dish in the winter. It simply won’t turn out great. Use good seasonal produce from your local farmers’ market and let the produce inspire and dictate what you cook.
SECONDS
If you want to feel like you’re really in the know and get a great deal, in the peak summer months go to the farmers’ market super-early and ask your favorite farmers if they have any “seconds.” Seconds are bruised, overripe, and often ugly-looking fruit that the farmers don’t feel they’ll be able to sell at full price. This fruit is ideal for jams, jellies, cobblers, and galettes, basically any dish where you cook down the fruit and want as much ripe ﬂavor as possible. My favor-ite two items to get seconds on are tomatoes and stone fruit. If you want to make the best tomato soup you’ve ever made in your life, make it with seconds. It’s also perfect for recipes like the Cherry T omato–Goat Cheese Cobbler (page 157) and Blueberry Nectarine Crisp (page 159). Don’t use seconds for anything where you want the fruit to hold its shape. It’s not great for recipes like the Vanilla Apricot Tart (page 146) or the Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble (page 154). When it comes to overripe berries, those farmers generally freeze their seconds and bring them only on request, so you’ll need to plan a week ahead for those. It’s a way to make great berry jams and jellies without breaking the bank.
BREAD
Support your local artisanal baker! Of course, we encourage you to make your own bread, but we also understand that it can take a fair amount of time and not everyone has that. But just because you are short on time doesn’t mean you should eat sandwiches on mass-produced, thoughtless bread. There is almost always an amazing baker either at your local farmers’ market or in your town that woke up at 2 a.m. that day to bake fresh bread. It may be slightly more expensive or a little out of your way, but it will always be worth it. There are few things people actually create start to ﬁnish with their own two hands, bread being one of them, and we have to make sure to support that.
SAL T
I know this is going to offend a few cookbook writers (and, honestly, most bakers) but when following a recipe from most cookbooks, double the salt. It’ll make the recipe taste one million times better and will actually make your baked goods taste like something other than sugar. Almost every time someone who works for me forgets the salt, I’ll ask them what they think the pastry needs and they will generally say, “More sugar.” No! It needs salt to bring out the sweetness from the sugar. In baking, salt should be used as a ﬂavor enhancer and only occasionally and intentionally as a ﬂavor. We use only kosher salt to bake and cook with, and ﬂeur de sel to ﬁnish because the rougher-cut, tips, secrets, and rules we live by  / 23larger granules really make your 
food  sparkle. Please buy both; they are game changers.
EGGS
On the Huckleberry menu you will mostly see eggs done two ways: sunny-side up and poached soft (but of course we always have scrambled eggs for the kids). Why? Because I very strongly believe those are the most delicious ways to eat eggs. I like them sunny-side up because I like my yolk very runny and I think the yolk is breathtakingly beautiful on top of just about anything. I never like color on the whites because I think they are hard to cut through with a fork and I just simply don’t think they taste better that way. I love poaching eggs because they feel light and you still get that awesome runny yolk. All that said, at Huckleberry we also realize everyone grew up eating and loving eggs differently, so we are always ﬂex-ible, within reason, and the same goes for this book. Make your eggs how you like them—scrambled, over-easy, over-hard, basted, etc. All I care about is that you take the time to make yourself a beautiful breakfast.
BUTTER
At Huckleberry we use a good  European-style butter. We think that the low water content and high fat make for much better-tasting baked goods. Always use unsalted butter so that you can control the salt in your dish. More expensive butter generally tastes better, so on pastries that should really taste like butter, such as ﬂaky dough, don’t skimp; use the good stuff.
VANILLA
As with salt, when using recipes from other cookbooks I recommend doubling the vanilla because in most recipes, the vanilla is called for in such small amounts that it’s pointless. You don’t want it to be the dominant ﬂavor, but you do want to taste it. So when you see the measurements for vanilla in this book please rest assured they are not misprints. Use good vanilla extract, it makes a difference. And lastly, we often call for whole vanilla beans in this book because I love to bake with them. Try to get your hands on them; they’ll give a richer, cleaner vanilla ﬂavor than extract. If you can’t ﬁnd vanilla beans, substitute 2 tsp of vanilla extract per vanilla bean.
CHOCOLATE
As always, use good ingredients, especially with chocolate. I like Valrhona 66% cacao, but ﬁnd what you like and buy it in bulk so you’re never stuck using inferior stuff. As we wrote this book, we had a hard time ﬁguring out how to express chocolate amounts using a cup measure. We found that unless we were using chocolate chips, which we never do at Huckleberry, it was difﬁ-cult to quantify in that way, because depending on how someone chops their chocolate you can ﬁt very differ-ent amounts in a cup. We did the best we could for our cup measurements, but we really encourage you to either use a scale or buy the baking bars that are scored into 1 oz portions, or the like, so you’re not stuck using a measuring cup.
BUTTERMILK AND CRÈME FRAÎCHE
At Huckleberry we go through cartons of buttermilk each day. But at home, when I was recipe testing, I was ﬂoored that I could never get through the entire carton, since most recipes call for only 2 or 3 tbsp. So if you need just a little buttermilk, make it yourself by combining 1 tsp lemon juice with 1 cup/235 ml milk, and allow it to sit for about 20 minutes at room temperature. The same is true for crème fraîche. Some of our testers were annoyed with the price of crème fraîche. If you don’t want to buy it, you can make your own by mixing 1 cup/235 ml heavy cream, with 1 tbsp buttermilk. Whisk them together, wrap tightly, and allow to rest at room temperature in a slightly warmer spot of your kitchen for 24 to 48 hours until thickened: the warmer the kitchen, the faster it’ll go. Once it’s thickened, refrigerate and use as needed.24 / huckleberryGRAINS
I love cooking with lots and lots of 
different grains. Not even half of those  that I enjoy working with are repre-sented in this book. I can’t push you enough to play with and learn about grains like bulgur, cracked wheat, quinoa, barley, and millet. T o me they are often so much more ﬂavorful  than white-ﬂour pastas, white rice,  or couscous.
COOKING WINE
For the most part, my rule of thumb is cook with the kind of wine you’d like to drink that dish with. But I will be honest with you: When cooking for this book, if a dish called for white but I had only a lighter red kicking around, I used it. You should feel free to do the same. There’s no need to stress yourself out about it. With beer it’s key that you do not use a bitter beer like an IPA in these recipes because once you start cooking it down, all you’ll be left with is the bitterness.
BACON
We tried as much as possible while writing this book to use ingredients that were easily accessible at your local supermarket. One item we found that you need to search a little harder for is good, thick-cut bacon. Most packaged stuff is so thin it cooks down to almost nothing. Luckily most supermarkets now have good slab bacon at the meat counter. At Huckleberry we always serve nitrate-free bacon because pregnant women and kids can eat it, and I know that when I was pregnant it’s all I really wanted to eat.
GRUYÈRE
At Huckleberry we go through 50 lb/ 23 kg of Gruyère every week. It’s the perfect cheese for baking and great for most hot sandwiches. It’s got the right amount of “stink,” melts beauti-fully, and has a really great depth of ﬂavor. I love the way it browns when it gets really hot, and in pastries it’s the perfect complement to butter.
AIOLI
It’s not that hard to make. It’s much more ﬂavorful than mayonnaise. Just do it. Use our recipe on page 224.tips, secrets, and rules we live by  / 25TOOLS
VESSELS
Most batters can be dropped into dif-
ferent vessels to feel like an entirely different dish. Blueberry cornmeal cake in a mufﬁn tin can become blue-berry mufﬁns. Zucchini mufﬁns can be thrown into a cake pan and become a teacake. But remember, smaller things bake faster and larger things take more time.
ON POTS AND PANS
Using the right pan is really important in getting the most out of your cook-ing. If you use too small a pan when sautéing mushrooms, they’ll get too watery and never get a good sear. If you use too big a pan when sautéing cherry tomatoes, they’ll burn before they get a chance to get tender and burst. So if the recipe calls for a small pan, please try to use a small pan and vice versa. Pan size is just as integral to the execution as adding the right amount of salt or cooking your onions for the right amount of time. Also it’s especially important when frying eggs to use a nonstick pan, or you will curse, curse, and curse as you try to slide your eggs out of the pan.
BUY A SCALE
Another way to make baking go quicker and have less dishes to do is to use a scale. I know it seems like just another thing to buy and clutter your kitchen with, and it takes a little getting used to, but it really will make baking a lot easier.
THE FREEZER IS YOUR FRIEND
Keep unbaked scones, packets of ﬂaky dough, unbaked cookies, and much more in your freezer. That way when you’re going to a potluck or having friends over or it’s a rainy day and your ﬁve-year-old has a craving for something sweet, you can bake something off in a matter of moments. Just be sure to tightly  double wrap when storing in the freezer. You should be able to turn it upside down or drop it on the ﬂoor without anything spilling out.
CALIBRATE YOUR OVEN
Before you begin baking, check your oven and make sure it’s calibrated properly. You can do everything in these recipes correctly but if your oven is off you are going to feel like a really crappy baker. When we were doing Saturday Morning Breakfast at Rustic Canyon we had awful ovens. They were lopsided, the tempera-tures were inaccurate, and the pilots went out all the time, always at the worst possible moment. I would do everything as close to perfect as I could but I still wound up with burnt, lopsided, underbaked, or overbaked mufﬁns without the right color on top. It was rough. At Rustic Canyon, I dealt with this by choosing a wall in the kitchen and hurling the crappy mufﬁns at it, which is not something I recommend. But I had to ﬁgure out how to get out my aggression and move on, and that was my way. So unless you want to decorate one of the walls in your home with mufﬁns, I suggest you check your oven with a basic oven thermometer at both 350°F/175°C and 500°F/260°C.26 / huckleberryTECHNIQUES
TOASTING
When I tell someone in the Huckle-
berry kitchen to toast nuts or wheat germ, they all know what I mean: I want some deep, dark color on them, and I want to really be able to smell them when they come out of the oven. When you toast nuts and wheat germ properly, you give them a much stronger, nutty ﬂavor that is impera-tive when you are baking with them. If you don’t toast properly, they can easily get lost in all the butter, white ﬂour, and anything else you have in there. So please toast your nuts and wheat germ deep, dark, and fragrant.
CRUMBLE TOPPING
If you’re exhausted and desperate for dessert or have a bunch of fruit that is about to die or your husband is grumpy and needs something sweet, turn your oven on; toss your fruit in sugar, salt, and maybe a touch of cornstarch; and top it with crumble (see page 152). Bake it and voilà! You are Martha Stewart and you didn’t even take out the mixer.
HOMEMADE BREADCRUMBS
You should make your own bread-crumbs. I don’t know one person on Earth that doesn’t have bread going stale around their house. Instead of throwing away that loaf th at’s pa st its 
prime, slice it, spread it out on a sheet pan, and bake it in a 300°F/150°C oven until it’s incredibly dry and beginning to brown. Cool, then break it up in a food processor or with a knife if necessary for larger pieces. Unseasoned breadcrumbs like these will last in an airtight container in your pantry for up to a month. If you want to make a seasoned version, before toasting the bread, drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle with kosher salt, black pepper, and whatever other spices you want. If you want to add herbs, do so after toasting. Seasoned breadcrumbs will last at room tem-perature for at least a week. If you choose to buy breadcrumbs for any of these recipes, buy them unseasoned, because all our recipes are based on unseasoned breadcrumbs.
GLUTEN-FREE BAKING
I can’t stress enough how important it is to make your own gluten-free ﬂour mix. Most store-bought gluten-free mixes have bean ﬂours in them, which I ﬁnd really off-putting. I originally wrote off gluten-free baking as just another diet trend; then I met some people who loved good pastries but got really sick after eating them. I realized then that gluten-free and vegan didn’t need to go hand-in-hand, so I got excited about the challenge of making delicious buttery pastries that could not only be made without gluten, but that also actually tasted better without it. The key was making my own gluten-free mix, which I hap-pily share with you in this book (see page 55). Feel free to adjust it based on your own taste.
CARAMELIZING ONIONS
I believe slow and low is not the way to do this. I know many will disagree, but I like to turn up the heat and stir frequently. I want my onions caramel-ized but to still have texture and not be completely mushy.
STOCK
A good homemade stock makes food so much more ﬂavorful. Whenever we’re done eating a roast chicken for dinner at home, the ﬁrst thing I do is throw the carcass into a large stock pot with a couple of unpeeled carrots, a whole unpeeled onion, fennel, a couple of unpeeled garlic cloves, and any herbs I might have in the fridge or garden, plus any other vegetables that might be on their last days in my refrigerator. Sometimes if I have a bottle of white wine that we didn’t quite ﬁnish, I’ll pour that tips, secrets, and rules we live by  / 27in, too. Simmer on medium, allow 
it to cook down by half; it will take 4 to 5 hours. If you want to let this go overnight, put it in a 275°F/135°C oven, uncovered, for 8 to 10 hours and let it get delicious while you sleep. Strain it and refrigerate if you think you’re going to use it soon, or freeze for some future day. Never add salt or pepper, so you have the freedom to season whatever dish when you make it . Another option is to buy a 
few chicken bones or legs at the mar-ket and roast with whatever veggies you love, a little olive oil and salt at 500°F/260°C for about 20 minutes, and then throw them in water like the chicken carcass, adding herbs if you like. Having your own stock on hand is another game changer.
SOUS VIDE
I have never had a piece of sous vide meat that is better than a prop-erly grilled steak or a properly braised brisket. Sue me, shoot me, burn me at the stake, but that is what I believe.28 / huckleberryTIPS AND SECRETS
COLOR IS FLAVOR
Don’t be scared of color when baking 
or cooking. Embrace it. Color is ﬂavor. Treat it as another ingredient to be measured properly. It is often the difference between something good and something remarkable. This is true whether you’re roasting off a tray of bacon, cooking a pot of caramel, or baking a cobbler. When I train someone new on how to bake a cobbler, they are always so scared of it getting too dark tha t they pull 
it out way too early. Invariably, the fruit’s not cooked and the dough just tastes doughy. If you ﬂirt with disaster, and really allow the bis-cuits to car amelize on top of the 
cobbler and the fruit to cook until it’s sweet and jammy, the people who eat it will appreciate it and be blown away that a simple cobbler can taste so complex.
PARBAKING
Yuck! Don’t do it. Ever. Breads and pastries are not green beans. Par-baking just messes up the texture  and ﬂavor.
PANCAKES
Make sure your griddle is nice and hot and always throw out your ﬁrst pancake—that one’s always a mess. If it kills you to throw out food, you can always roll it up with some jelly and eat it yourself while you’re  cooking the rest of the pancakes.
THE STEAL TH CHECK
You’re worried that you forgot an ingredient or weighed the wrong amount of something, but you’re not sure. Don’t risk cutting into a cake that might actually be good before you’re ready to serve it. Instead, when you’re turning out your cake, rip a little taste off the bottom, put it aside, let it cool for a few minutes, and then taste it. If it’s good, no one will ever know that you doubted it at some point. If it’s bad, throw it away, start again, and don’t beat yourself up. I’ve done it plenty of times.
BAKE WITH YOUR EYES, NOSE,  
AND INTUITION
Don’t be a slave to a timer. The 
times I give in these recipes work at my house in my oven. But maybe your oven is different, or your fruit has more or less liquid. When you start to smell your baked good, it is getting close. If you see it has no color, don’t hesitate to crank up the oven temperature and keep an eye on it.  Sometimes to make something perfect, you have to adjust. Using all your senses is truly the only way to  bake well.
BRUSH OFF YOUR FLOUR
When dealing with any dough you’re rolling out, such as ﬂaky dough, you will always have to use extra ﬂour to dust the table and dough. When you are done, be sure to brush all excess ﬂour off of your pastry. It will not miraculously dissolve into the pastry and it will not taste good at all; it will simply still taste like raw 
ﬂour after it is baked. I always like to have a dry brush on hand for this exact purpose when I’m rolling any-  thing out.
PLATING (AND LIGHTING) FIXES 
EVERYTHING
Pretty plates, dim lighting, and 
powdered sugar can often save the day. Did you bake something a little too dark? Is it kind of lopsided? Did the fruit sink? Don’t panic; put it on a pretty plate, dust the whole thing with powdered sugar, and lower the lights. Trust me.
SIFTING
Sifting is annoying and only some-times do we feel it actually makes any sort of real difference. So if we  tips, secrets, and rules we live by  / 29say to sift, then you really need to.  
If we don’t, then don’t waste your time.
MUFFIN TOPS (THE KIND YOU WANT)
Huckleberry mufﬁns, when they are not made in a convection oven, will not look super-high like a traditional domed mufﬁn. I chose to put our actual recipes in this book even though they bake up slightly less domed when baked in a traditional home oven, because I wanted you to have the best ﬂavor and texture. I could have added ﬂour to get the look, but I didn’t think it was worth the compromise.
SAL T AS YOU GO
When you’re making a dish that has multiple stages of cooking, salt each one as you go as opposed to just trying to salt the dish as a whole at the end. A dish tastes better when every-thing is seasoned correctly. You’ll also see in these recipes I give pretty exact measurements for salt, which is something most recipe books don’t do when it comes to savory food.  One of the biggest pitfalls of a home cook is not putting enough salt in your food, and I want to make sure that your food comes out tasting bright and beautiful.HEAT
The thing I ﬁnd most annoying about cooking with anyone who is not a professional is that the ﬂame is never high enough. When my husband is cooking, I literally spend half the time behind his back turning things up, poor guy. Go against your instincts and turn it up. Don’t be afraid to cook with heat; it’s what gives your food life. Just pay attention so you don’t burn stuff.
BÉCHAMEL
I love béchamel. I like to think of it as my savory pastry cream. It’s obviously great on a Traditional Croque Mon-sieur (page 242), but it’s also perfect used on the bottom layer in savory crostatas, bread puddings, lasagna, macaroni and cheese, enchiladas, and much more. Just remember it is very important to cook the ﬂour well before adding the milk so the ﬂoury raw taste is cooked out.
FRESH GREENS
I love a good, heavy breakfast dish like brisket, braised pork, or a fried egg sandwich but feel that they all beneﬁt from a little lightening up with a handful of fresh greens. I don’t toss the greens with anything, because once the yolks break it becomes a dressing in and of itself. I love arugula and use it all the time, but you can really use anything like watercress, red leaf lettuce, or butter lettuce, but nothing hard or overly chewy like raw kale.
PLAN AHEAD FOR BREAD (AND 
OTHER THINGS THAT RISE)
Plan ahead when making bagels or 
brioche from this book. Almost all these recipes take two days to make, so be sure to plan accordingly and read the whole recipe the day before you want to eat it. Generally, dough that has more time to ferment and build ﬂavor, either by sitting overnight or with the addition of a poolish, will have much better ﬂavor than one that is just mixed, proofed, and baked quickly.
MEASURE THE NIGHT BEFORE
This will make your life so much easier. At Huckleberry, we’re in by 3:30 a.m. and by 7:30 a.m. we have produced a full pastry spread. How do we make this happen? We do a lot of the time-consuming stuff the day before, such as gathering ingredients and measuring them. This also elim-inates a lot of early morning, foggy brain, incorrect weighing. Ideally all you should have to do the morning 30 / huckleberryof is drink coffee, listen to music, and 
dump, mix, scoop, and bake. If you want to be really prepared, you can even set out your tools and prepare your pans. Then, in the morning, your items will come together in minutes.
PREP AHEAD
There are a number of things you can entirely prepare ahead—one more step toward a calm breakfast. Cakes and mufﬁns like the Choco-late Chunk Mufﬁns (page 36), the Chocolate Almond Mufﬁns (page 38), the Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake (page 91), and the Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake (page 88) you can make, pan up, then refrigerate overnight and just pop right into the oven. A few cakes and mufﬁns hold up so well overnight that you can mix and bake them off the day before you want to serve them, such as the Pear Ginger Mufﬁns (page 44), Zucchini Mufﬁns (page 49), and Banana Poppy Seed Mufﬁns (page 39). Cobblers can be put together the night before and placed in the fridge ready to be baked in the morning. Things that are frozen, like biscuits, scones, galettes, crostatas, and turnovers can be made days, even weeks, ahead. Just transfer to your refrigerator the night before to defrost and bake from that very-cold-but-no- longer-frozen state. With savory dishes and sandwiches, you can cook a lot of the elements the night before. Then in the morning it’s simple to throw something won-derful together in much less time. Use these tricks, and you can easily throw together an insane spread with-out having to wake up at 3 a.m.
BRAISE AHEAD
Braising the day before not only saves time in the morning and ensures that your guests will eat their break-fast before 2 p.m., but also makes meat taste so much better; it allows the meat to soak up all the wonderful ﬂavors in the braising liquid, and it just gets better and better, so don’t be afraid to braise even two or three days ahead.
DINNER FOR BREAKFAST
Okay, I’m going to let you in on a little secret: Even with all the savory recipes in this book, some of the best breakfast plates are when you simply turn last night’s dinner into breakfast. Pull your meat, heat it up, and put an egg on it—and if you really feel creative, top it with some fresh bread-crumbs, chopped herbs, or arugula.BREAKFAST FOR DINNER
In order to recipe test everything in the book, and spend time with my husband, I had pretty much every savory breakfast dish in this book for dinner. Guess what? These were some of the best dinners ever. So feel free to eat these dishes for dinner, too.3:30 A.M.
muffinsIt’s 3:30 a.m., which is deﬁnitely more night than 
morning. I often drive into work and pass rowdy girls and guys my age who are wrapping up their nights while I’m just beginning my morning. It can honestly make you feel like a real dork sometimes.
I’m half asleep. I move through my morning routine 
on autopilot. I turn on the ovens, ﬂip the retarder from “retard” to “proof,” and I make myself tea. Next, I text Josh to let him know I’m in the kitchen all safe and sound. I know he won’t be able to fall back to sleep until he gets it. I press send and take half a minute to long for my warm bed and my sweet husband, then shake it off and get to work. Before long I’m at the sheeter, rolling out the yeasted ﬂaky dough I made the day before. I have no plan, so once it’s rolled out I scour the walk-in for what’s ripe.
My pastry sous chef, Laurel Almerinda, is the next 
one in after me. She mumbles, “Hi,” grabs an apron, and turns Pandora to Dolly Parton radio and blasts it. I don’t say a thing; it’s what wakes her up and I need her awake, so I keep my mouth shut.
It takes a lot of people to run a place like Huckle-
berry, but no one is more important to it or to me than Laurel. I ﬁrst met her when she was a regular at our Saturday Morning Breakfasts at Rustic Canyon. She had zero experience but she talked me into giving her an internship. She did a lot of prep work around the pastry kitchen, and I don’t want to sound like a jerk but between planning my wedding, recipe testing, going over construction documents for Huckleberry, and making all Rustic Canyon’s des-serts every night, I didn’t pay much attention to her. But she hung in there, kept learning, came over to  Huckleberry with me as a baker, and pretty quickly moved up to being my sous chef.All of a sudden we were spending ﬁve or six mornings 
a week working next to each other trying to ﬁgure out how to actually run this monster of a place. She didn’t have the conﬁdence yet but she had the passion, strength, and excitement to learn, and, most important, we made each other laugh.
I’m not always the easiest person to work beside. 
I make a mess, change my mind halfway through making something, and throw your stuff out if it looks crappy in any way, no matter how long you’ve been working on it. But Laurel gets me, she doesn’t take things personally, and when I don’t like some-thing, she makes it again and again until it’s right. I trust Laurel because she is not only incredibly  talented and caring but also crazy in the way I’m crazy. She’s a hard-nosed perfectionist who still  manages to be a sweet person. Like me, she can cry in the middle of the kitchen when something goes wrong, then pull it together and make some of the most delicious things you’ve ever tasted.
Choosing Laurel to help run Huckleberry’s sweet side 
was truly the best decision I’ve ever made besides marrying my husband and having Milo. She knows me, almost too well. I can walk by something and barely glance at it thinking that something’s not right and all of a sudden I hear from around the corner, “I know. We’re remaking it.” Without Laurel, a lot of this doesn’t happen.
Back in the bakery, my team continues to trickle in 
silently, hoodies over their heads. One girl goes right to the coffee grinder. Another girl loads chocolate chunk mufﬁns into the oven before she’s even taken her jacket off. No one says much, except for Dolly, of course.muffins  / 35These started out as olive oil–cocoa nib mufﬁns that were good but not great. Slowly I 
began to work on them and tweak little things here and there, but they still just weren’t right. I was about to throw in the towel when I thought I would try adding just a little butter, who would know? Well, my love of butter runs deep. Real deep. So a little became  a little more, until I could no longer justify calling them olive oil mufﬁns. So here we have our rich Cocoa Nib Mufﬁns. Please serve these as a fun treat at your next brunch.
cocoa nib mufﬁns with  
dark chocolate glaze
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
MUFFINS
2 eggs
2 egg yolks½ cup + 2 tbsp/130 g sugar7 tbsp/100 ml extra-virgin olive oil5 tbsp/70 g unsalted butter, melted2 tbsp dry white wine1½ tbsp maple syrup1 tbsp vanilla extract¾ tsp kosher salt¾ cup/90 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup/40 g cornmeal1 tsp baking powder¼ cup/45 g cocoa nibs
GLAZE
⅔ cup/165 ml heavy cream⅔ cup/120 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao
Cocoa nibs for sprinkling (optional)1. T o make the mufﬁns: Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Line one 
12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, com-
bine the eggs, egg yolks, and sugar and beat on medium-high speed until thick and ribbony, 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a separate bowl, combine the olive oil, melted butter, 
wine, maple syrup, vanilla, and salt. Whisk together.
4. Slowly pour the olive oil mixture into the egg mixture with the mixer 
on low. Pause mixing and add the ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder, and cocoa nibs. Mix until just incorporated.
5. Pour the batter into the mufﬁn cups, ﬁlling them almost all the way 
to the top. Bake for about 20 minutes, until the mufﬁns slightly spring back to the touch. Please do not overbake! Allow the mufﬁns to cool for about 10 minutes.
6. T o make the glaze: Bring the cream to a boil in a small pan over 
medium-high heat, then immediately pour it over the chocolate in a small bowl. Allow the mixture to sit undisturbed for about 1 minute to melt. Then stir with a wooden spoon until homogenous.
7. Spoon glaze over each mufﬁn, allowing a little to drip down the 
sides, and sprinkle with nibs, if you like.
These keep nicely, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  2 days.36 / huckleberryThese chocolate chunk mufﬁns are hands down my husband’s favorite mufﬁn I make. 
He loves them so much that for his birthday last year I made mini chocolate chunk muf-ﬁns to go along with his chocolate cake and homemade Twix bars. He was a happy man.
If you are looking for one batter you can do almost anything with, you have ﬁnally 
found it. It’s awesome with the chocolate chunks but it’s also really amazing with almost any kind of fruit mixed in, from blueberries to sliced peaches. For another great varia-tion add 1 tbsp cinnamon and top it with any of the crumble toppings from the Baked in a Dish chapter. The possibilities are endless.
Another thing I love about these mufﬁns is that they can be mixed and assembled 
in the mufﬁn tins the night before and thrown in the oven in the morning. Just remember to add a few minutes to the bake time because the batter will be cold.
chocolate chunk mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
¾ cup/170 g unsalted butter,  
at room temperature
¾ cup + 2 tbsp/165 g sugar,  
plus more for sprinkling
1 tsp kosher salt2 eggs1¼ cups/160 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup/25 g almond ﬂour1½ tsp baking powder½ tsp baking soda¾ cup/180 ml plain whole yogurt1½ tsp vanilla extract2¼ cups/210 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao1. Position a rack toward the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, 
cream the butter, sugar, and salt on medium-high speed until nice and ﬂuffy, 1 to 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well with each addition. Pause mixing. Add the all-purpose ﬂour, almond ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, yogurt, vanilla, and chocolate. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated.
3. Fill the mufﬁn cups with batter all the way to the top, even a little 
over. Sprinkle the tops with a little sugar.
4. Bake for 22 to 25 minutes, until the mufﬁns are brown and just 
spring back to the touch. Please do not overbake!
These keep perfectly, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.38 / huckleberryThese mufﬁns are always the ﬁrst to go. People love a dessert disguised as a mufﬁn. 
The most important thing about this recipe is to make sure the almond paste is very ﬁnely broken up with the cocoa powder so you don’t see clumps of almond paste when you bite into the mufﬁn. If you happen to get a few clumps of almond paste, don’t worry, they’ll taste perfect but won’t look as pretty as they should.
I don’t use almond paste often because it has such an intense ﬂavor, but when it’s 
used properly and coupled with chocolate it tastes amazing and adds a moistness that butter alone can’t achieve. When testing these mufﬁns at home we were amazed by the  extreme differences in cocoa powders. At the bakery we use a Dutch  Valrhona–process  cocoa powder, which is very dark in color and rich in ﬂavor. Try to get your hands on a good dark cocoa powder for this recipe, but if you can’t, still make these mufﬁns—they will be delicious, just lighter in color and with a slightly stronger almond ﬂavor.
chocolate almond mufﬁns
MAKES 16 MUFFINS
¾ cup/200 g almond paste
1 cup/200 g granulated sugar1 tsp kosher salt⅓ cup/30 g Dutch process  
cocoa powder
1 cup + 1 tbsp/240 g unsalted,  
cubed butter, at room temperature
6 eggs2 tsp vanilla extract1 cup/130 g all-purpose ﬂour1½ tbsp brown rice ﬂour2¼ tsp baking powder2 cups/260 g coarsely chopped  
dark chocolate, 60 to 70% cacao
Powdered sugar for topping1. Position a rack in the center of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 16 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, 
beat the almond paste, granulated sugar, salt, and cocoa powder on medium speed until the mixture looks and feels sandy. Be sure all the almond paste is broken up into a ﬁne meal with no clumps. Add the butter and beat for 1 to 2 minutes on medium. Incorporate the eggs, two at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the vanilla, then pause mixing. Add both ﬂours, the baking powder, and chopped chocolate. Mix cautiously, on low speed, just until incorporated; then fold by hand to be sure it’s properly, but gently, incorporated.
3. Fill the mufﬁn cups with batter, all the way to the top, then bake. If 
both pans won’t ﬁt on the center rack, just bake in batches until the mufﬁns just barely spring back when pressed, 20 to 22 minutes.
4. Allow to cool completely before dusting with powdered sugar.
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  
3 days.muffins  / 39I’ve always thought of banana mufﬁns as a staple mufﬁn. It’s truly good any time of 
day. Middle of the night after too many drinks? Banana mufﬁn. Afternoon tea? Banana mufﬁn. Grumpy kid? Rushing off to work? Banana mufﬁn.
I make the batter for these mufﬁns on the less-sweet side, since you get a hit of 
sweetness from the sugared bananas on top. Keep in mind that the darker and riper your bananas are, the sweeter your mufﬁn will be. It’s really important to get good color on these before they are done baking, so if only one tray can be on the top rack at a time, be sure to switch the two trays halfway through baking; or bake one tray at a time to make sure each mufﬁn is colorful and beautiful.
At Huckleberry, we serve these with a side of cream cheese.
banana poppy seed mufﬁns
MAKES 16 MUFFINS
½ cup/110 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
½ cup + 3 tbsp/140 g sugar, plus more 
for topping
1¼ tsp kosher salt2 eggs7 ripe bananas, 5 mashed by hand  
(not pulverized), and 2 thinly sliced
1 cup/125 g all-purpose ﬂour1 cup/125 g whole-wheat ﬂour1 tsp baking powder1 tsp baking soda1 tbsp poppy seeds½ cup/120 ml whole plain yogurt¾ cup/130 ml buttermilk2 tsp vanilla extract1. Position a rack toward the top of your oven and preheat to 375°F/ 
190°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 16 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, 
cream the butter, sugar, and salt on medium speed until nice and ﬂuffy, 1 to 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition, followed by the mashed bananas.
3. Add both ﬂours, the baking powder, baking soda, poppy seeds, 
yogurt, buttermilk, and vanilla on low speed. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated.
4. Fill the mufﬁn cups with batter almost all the way to the top. T op 
each mufﬁn with 3 banana slices and sprinkle with sugar.
5. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until the mufﬁns brown and slightly 
spring back to the touch; don’t overbake. 
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  3 days.40 / huckleberryThis is the only mufﬁn we always run at Huckleberry. Whenever we try to swap it out 
for another, many angry customers cry, “Where’s my bran mufﬁn? !” When my younger brother comes to visit from New York, my mom gives him one of these the second he gets off the plane. And sends him back with two on his return trip. The key is toasting the bran to a deep golden color. If you’re craving these mufﬁns and don’t have any blueberries, substitute 1 cup/185 g chopped, soaked raisins instead, and mix them in right before portioning out the butter. Sometimes I actually prefer them that way. They are also delicious in the wintertime with fresh cranberries in place of the blueberries. These mufﬁns are so incredibly moist they don’t need to be served with butter.
blueberry bran mufﬁns
MAKES 14 MUFFINS
½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g unsalted butter, 
melted and slightly cooled
¼ cup/55 g brown sugar,  
plus more for sprinkling
½ tsp kosher salt1 egg¼ cup/60 ml maple syrup¼ cup/60 ml honey6 tbsp/90 ml canola oil1 cup/130 g all-purpose ﬂour1 cup/200 g wheat germ, toasted1 tsp baking soda1 cup/240 ml whole plain yogurt2 cups/300 g fresh blueberriesGranulated sugar for sprinkling1. Evenly space two racks in your oven and preheat to 350°F/180°C. 
Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 14 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. Pour the butter into a large bowl. Add the brown sugar and salt and 
whisk together by hand. Whisk in the egg, followed by the maple syrup, honey, and canola oil. Add the ﬂour, wheat germ, baking soda, and yogurt, mixing cautiously until just incorporated.
3. Fill the mufﬁn cups with batter almost all the way to the top, then 
top with the blueberries and sprinkle with a little brown sugar and granulated sugar.
4. Bake for about 20 minutes until the mufﬁns are browned and spring 
back when touched.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.muffins  / 41I make these almost every week for my son’s swim class. I can’t really ever get him 
to stay in the water for the whole class, or really even half the class, but at least the  mufﬁns never fail to be an insane hit with the kids. These would also be great for a high tea or a Sunday brunch. I love these with raspberries, but you can easily use any berry you prefer. It’s very important not to overbake these, so please stay close to your oven when baking them. If you don’t have rice ﬂour, feel free to omit it.
vanilla raspberry mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
1¼ cup/160 g all-purpose ﬂour
2 tbsp brown rice ﬂour1 tsp baking powder1 tsp baking soda1 cup/200 g sugar, plus more for 
sprinkling
½ tsp kosher salt1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g unsalted butter,  
cubed, at room temperature
2 eggs3 egg yolks2 tbsp vanilla extract3 tbsp buttermilk1½ cups/180 g fresh raspberries1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 375°F/ 
190°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, mix both ﬂours, 
the baking powder, baking soda, sugar, salt, and butter on low speed until lumpy but starting to come together.
3. With the mixer on low speed, slowly pour in the eggs, egg yolks, 
vanilla, and buttermilk. Mix until just combined. Scrape the sides of the mixer bowl well, making sure everything is incorporated. Gently fold the berries in by hand, trying hard not to crush them.
4. Fill the mufﬁn cups three-quarters full with batter and sprinkle with 
sugar. Bake until the mufﬁns just barely sping back to the touch, about 20 minutes.
These keep well, tightly wrapped at room temperature, for up to  2 days.muffins  / 43This mufﬁn tastes how you always wished that hippie mufﬁn at the health food store 
would taste. I love using whole grains and wholesome ingredients but at the same time I don’t want you to feel as if you’re settling for a healthful but less tasty alternative. It must still be delicious. The key is a good balance between those nice healthful  nutty-tasting grains and enough fat and sweetness to round them out. Once you taste this mufﬁn, you will understand. In the summer, berries are a great substitute for the raisins, or, in the winter, cranberries.
apple cinnamon crumble mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
CRUMBLE
½ cup/40 g rolled oats
¼ cup/30 g whole-wheat ﬂour3 tbsp unsalted butter, at room 
temperature
2 tbsp brown sugar1 tbsp honey1 tbsp millet1 tbsp cracked wheat, chia seeds,  
or poppy seeds
1 tbsp ﬂax seeds¼ tsp kosher salt
MUFFINS
1¼ cups/130 g whole-wheat ﬂour2 tbsp almond ﬂour1 tbsp wheat germ, toasted1 tbsp millet1 tbsp cracked wheat, chai seeds,  
or poppy seeds
1 tbsp ﬂax seeds1 tbsp rolled oats1½ tsp cinnamon½ tsp baking powder½ tsp baking soda¼ cup/55 g brown sugar¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar1 tsp kosher salt4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter, melted⅓ cup/30 ml honey½ cup/120 ml buttermilk½ cup + 2 tbsp/150 ml canola oil1 egg1 tsp vanilla extract1 large apple, peeled and grated1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. T o make the crumble: Combine the oats, whole-wheat ﬂour, butter, 
brown sugar, honey, millet, cracked wheat, ﬂax seeds, and salt in a bowl and blend with your ﬁngertips until homogenous. Refrigerate until needed.
3. T o make the mufﬁns: Whisk the whole-wheat ﬂour, almond ﬂour, 
wheat germ, millet, cracked wheat, ﬂax seeds, oats, cinnamon, baking powder, baking soda, brown sugar, granulated sugar, and salt together in a large bowl to remove any lumps. In a small bowl or pitcher, combine the melted butter, honey, buttermilk, canola oil, egg, and vanilla. Whisk to combine.
4. Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and whisk together by 
hand until just combined. Fold in the apples. 
5. Fill the mufﬁn cups almost all the way to the top and sprinkle with 
the crumble. Bake for 20 minutes, until the mufﬁns are browned and spring back slightly when touched.
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature for up to  2 days.44 / huckleberryThese mufﬁns just scream holiday . If you want to channel your inner Martha, bake these, 
put them in a tin, and give as a gift. They stay incredibly moist overnight. This recipe can have many different incarnations. They are just as good with apples or cranberries as they are with pears, and honestly sometimes I think they’re even better without any fruit, but if you’re doing them without pears, substitute ¾ cup/180 ml apple juice for the pear poaching liquid. If you choose to bake them without any cut fruit, just remember to shorten your baking time slightly, as they’ll bake quicker without the juices from the fruit. I love serving these with fresh whipped cream and a light dusting of powdered sugar. This batter also bakes beautifully as a teacake.
pear ginger mufﬁns
MAKES 18 MUFFINS
3 medium pears, peeled and chopped
1 pinch sugar1 pinch kosher salt, plus ¾ tsp1 pinch ground cinnamon, plus 1 tsp1¾ cups/220 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup + 1 tsp/60 g brown sugar1½ tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda1 tbsp + 1½ tsp ground ginger¼ tsp ground nutmeg¼ tsp ground black pepper⅛ tsp ground cloves½ cup/120 ml canola oil¼ cup + 2 tbsp/90 ml molasses¼ cup + 1 tbsp/75 ml maple syrup2 eggsZest of 1 orange1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 18 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. Combine the pears, sugar, the pinch of salt, and pinch of cinnamon 
in a small saucepan. Cover with 2 cups/430 ml water and cook over  high heat until soft, about 10 minutes. Strain out the fruit and reserve  ¾ cup/180 ml of the cooking liquid. Refrigerate both until cool.
3. Combine the ﬂour, brown sugar, baking powder, baking soda, ginger, 
nutmeg, pepper, cloves, and the remaining salt and cinnamon in a large bowl; whisk to remove lumps.
4. Combine the reserved pear cooking liquid, canola oil, molasses, 
maple syrup, eggs, and orange zest in a small bowl; whisk to  combine. Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and whisk together by hand until smooth. Fold in the cooked pears.
5. As this is an incredibly loose batter, pour it into a large liquid  
measuring cup, and then pour it into the mufﬁn cups, ﬁlling them  a little more than three-quarters full. Bake for 15 to 18 minutes,  until the mufﬁns just barely spring back to the touch.
These keep beautifully, wrapped tightly, at room temperature, for up to 4 days.muffins  / 45I started out trying to make a brown sugar–peach mufﬁn, and somehow after a lot of 
trial and error, I ended up with a decadent branny ﬁg–brown sugar mufﬁn. Don’t ask. I may have gotten very off track, but I promise you won’t be disappointed, because now they are one of my favorite mufﬁns. These would also be great with raspberries, blue-berries, sliced bananas, or plums instead of ﬁgs, and you can make them gluten-free by  substituting our gluten-free ﬂour mix (see page 55) for the wheat germ, whole-wheat, and all-purpose ﬂours. Th at’s ho w I like to make them at home.
ﬁg–brown sugar mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
1 cup/130 g whole-wheat ﬂour
2 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour3 tbsp chia seeds or poppy seeds1 tsp baking soda1 tsp baking powder2 tbsp wheat germ½ cup/120 g cream cheese or yogurt2 tbsp whole milk¾ cup/180 ml canola oil½ cup/100 g brown sugar¼ cup/60 g granulated sugar1 tsp kosher salt4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter,  
melted and slightly cooled
1 tbsp vanilla extract1 egg6 to 8 ripe ﬁgs, sliced into eighths1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. Whisk the whole-wheat ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, chia seeds, baking 
soda, baking powder, and wheat germ in a large bowl to remove lumps. In a small bowl, whisk the cream cheese and milk together until smooth. Add the canola oil, brown sugar, granulated sugar, salt, unsalted butter, vanilla, and egg. Whisk to combine.
3. Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and whisk together by 
hand just until combined. Stir in the ﬁgs, allowing them to break up slightly as you incorporate them.
4. Fill the mufﬁn cups about two-thirds full. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, 
until the mufﬁns are brown and just barely spring back to the touch. Allow the mufﬁns to cool before removing from the pans.
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  2 days.46 / huckleberryAs Laurel and I tested recipes like crazy at our homes for this book, our families were 
deﬁnitely the benefactors. Laurel said these mufﬁns immediately grabbed her hus-band’s attention. After a thoughtful bite he said, “I have no feedback.” Then he shoved the rest of it in his face and said with a mouthful, “I better get a thank you in that book.” Oh, how he sacriﬁced. And oh yeah, thank you, Ethan.
This batter is incredibly versatile. During the summer we often mix in 2 cups/300 g  
fresh blueberries or strawberries, omit the lemon zest, and top with a combination of white and brown sugar before baking. During the holidays we sometimes substitute orange zest for the lemon zest and fold in 2 cups/300 g fresh cranberries.
lemon cornmeal mufﬁns  
with lemon glaze
MAKES 18 MUFFINS
MUFFINS
¾ cup + 1 tbsp/190 g unsalted,  
cubed butter, at room temperature
¾ cup + 3 tbsp/190 g granulated sugar1½ tsp kosher saltZest of 4 lemons, plus 2 tbsp lemon juice2 eggs4½ tbsp/70 ml canola oil3 tbsp maple syrup1 tbsp vanilla extract1¾ cups/215 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/120 g cornmeal2¼ tsp baking powder¾ tsp baking soda1¾ cup/400 g ricotta
GLAZE
1 cup/120 g powdered sugar2 tbsp + 1 tsp fresh lemon juice1 tsp heavy cream
Lemon wheels for garnish (optional)1. T o make the mufﬁns: Position a rack near the top of your oven and 
preheat to 350°F/180°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 18 paper liners, spacing them out evenly between the two pans.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
granulated sugar, salt, and zest on medium speed for 1 to 2 minutes, until the butter looks nice and ﬂuffy. Incorporate the eggs slowly, one at a time, beating well after each addition on medium speed. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well.
3. Slowly pour in the canola oil, maple syrup, lemon juice, and vanilla. 
Scrape the sides again. Add the ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder,  baking soda, and ricotta. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Please don’t overmix!
4. Fill the mufﬁn cups three-quarters full. Bake for about 18 minutes, 
until the mufﬁns just barely spring back to the touch.
5. When you take the mufﬁns out of the oven, begin to make your 
glaze: Sift the powdered sugar into a medium mixing bowl. Add the lemon juice and whisk until free of lumps. Add the cream and whisk until incorporated.
6. Spread the glaze on each mufﬁn with an offset spatula or butter 
knife. This is best to do when the mufﬁn is still warm. Garnish each with a lemon wheel, if desired.
These keep beautifully, wrapped tightly, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.48 / huckleberryAnyone who knows Huckleberry knows that when corn is in season, I tend to go a little 
crazy. These mufﬁns are always one of the ﬁrst things I make. In fact, once you make these mufﬁns you’ll have a hard time seeing corn and not wanting to rush off and make them right away; they just scream summer . However, do resist the temptation to 
make them at any point when corn is not in peak season because they won’t be nearly as good.
Serve these mufﬁns with soft butter and homemade Strawberry Jam (page 55).
sweet corn mufﬁns
MAKES 16 MUFFINS
½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g unsalted,  
cubed butter, at room temperature
¾ cup/150 g sugar, plus more for 
topping
1½ tsp kosher salt2 eggs6 tbsp/80 g canola oil2 tbsp honey1 tbsp vanilla extract1½ cups/135 g all-purpose ﬂour⅔ cup/90 g cornmeal2 tsp baking powder¼ tsp baking soda1⅓ cups/320 ml whole milk yogurt2 cups/490 g fresh corn kernels  
(3 or 4 cobs)1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 16 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, and salt on medium speed for 1 to 2 minutes, until the butter looks nice and ﬂuffy. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. With the mixer on low speed, pour in the canola oil, honey, and vanilla, then pause mixing. Add the ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, yogurt, and corn kernels. Th at’s right, all at the same 
time. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix!
3. Fill the mufﬁn cups three-quarters full with batter and sprinkle the 
tops with a little sugar. Bake until the mufﬁns are nicely browned and spring back slightly to the touch, 25 to 28 minutes.
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  3 days.muffins  / 49These mufﬁns are really forgiving. They’re great to eat the day after you bake them, 
and for that reason they make great gifts. When we hold a special evening event at Huckleberry, I love to bake a bunch of these for people to take home for breakfast the next morning.
If you don’t have zucchini, you can easily substitute carrots—or even mix zucchini 
and carrot. You can play with these by subbing other ﬂours for the white ﬂour, too. In fact, when I make them at home, I often use some whole-wheat ﬂour or our gluten- free ﬂour mix (see page 55) instead of the all-purpose and add 1 tbsp ground ﬂax seeds and 2 tsp chia seeds or poppy seeds.
In my opinion, these are perfect slathered in cream cheese.
zucchini mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
¾ cup/130 g raisins or currants
¾ cup/180 ml canola oil1 cup + 2 tbsp/230 g sugar,  
plus more for topping
¾ tsp kosher saltZest of 1 orange3 eggs1½ tsp vanilla extract1½ cup/190 g all-purpose ﬂour1 tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda1½ tsp cinnamon1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/260 g  
unpeeled, grated zucchini
1 cup + 2 tbsp/140 g walnuts,  
toasted and hand crushed1. Plump the raisins in 1 cup/240 ml warm water for 10 minutes, then 
drain and ﬁnely chop.
2. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
3. In a large bowl, combine the canola oil, sugar, salt, orange zest, eggs, 
and vanilla and whisk to combine. Add the ﬂour, baking powder,  baking soda, and cinnamon and whisk together by hand until lump-free. Fold in the zucchini, walnuts, and raisins.
4. Fill the mufﬁn cups almost all the way to the top and sprinkle with 
sugar. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until the mufﬁns are browned and spring back slightly to the touch.
These keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to  4 days.50 / huckleberryPlease play with this recipe. Add and subtract to your heart’s content. Don’t eat meat? 
Add additional cheese and herbs for super-cheesy herby mufﬁns. No rye ﬂour in the pantry? Substitute another ﬂour, like whole-wheat, buckwheat, or, if you must, more all-purpose ﬂour. Black pepper is not my thing but Laurel is obsessed. She always adds a healthy dose to these. Ham instead of bacon? Do it. Goat cheese? Why not? Like I said, play!
Browning the tops of these before they overbake inside is the key to success. So 
you may want to bake one mufﬁn pan at a time, right at the top of your oven. Feel free to ride your oven dial and go hotter or cooler to control the browning, but just remem-ber that color is ﬂavor, so you want these pretty dark.
bacon cheddar mufﬁns
MAKES 15 MUFFINS
6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
2 tbsp sugar1½ tsp kosher salt3 eggs¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/120 g cornmeal6 tbsp/40 g rye ﬂour1½ tbsp baking powder½ cup + 1 tbsp/135 ml canola oil3 tbsp + 2 tsp/55 ml maple syrup1 cup + 2 tbsp/175 ml buttermilk½ cup/70 g diced Cheddar  
(cut into 1-in/2.5-cm cubes), plus ¼ cup/30 g grated Cheddar
6 tbsp/40 g grated Parmesan11 slices cooked bacon, coarsely 
chopped, plus 1½ tbsp bacon fat,  cooled
¼ cup/10 g fresh chives, parsley,  
or a combo, ﬁnely chopped
Chopped rosemary for garnishing1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 400°F/ 
200°C. Line two 12-cup mufﬁn pans with 15 paper liners, spacing them evenly between the two pans.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, and salt for 1 to 2 minutes until nice and ﬂuffy. Incorporate the eggs slowly, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the all-purpose ﬂour, cornmeal, rye ﬂour, and baking powder and mix until incorporated. Add the canola oil, maple syrup, and butter milk. Scrape the mixer bowl well, making sure everything is well incorporated. Add the diced Cheddar, 4 tbsp/25 g of the  P armesan, the bacon, and chives. Mix just until dispersed, 
 folding by hand to be sure.
3. Fill the mufﬁn cups to the very top.4. In a small bowl toss the grated Cheddar with the remaining 2 tbsp 
Parmesan and sprinkle evenly over the mufﬁns. Bake for about 15 minutes, until nicely browned but not overbaked inside. Garnish with chopped rosemary.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.muffins  / 53There is nothing I hate more than a gummy pastry. For that reason I don’t like 
most gluten-free pastries out there, and I ﬁnd it especially challenging to ﬁnd a  delicious gluten-free and  vegan pastry. But once I realized you don’t have to use 
 xanthan gum to make one of those said pastries hold together, I got hooked on 
the challenge of making this stuff actually taste good. This was the ﬁrst gluten- free and vegan recipe I made that I really liked. And honestly, sometimes I prefer 
it to the white ﬂour,  butter-heavy devils I usually make.
gluten-free vegan  
banana chocolate mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
1 cup + 2 tbsp/140 g Huckleberry 
Gluten-Free Flour Mix (page 55)
6 tbsp/35 g almond ﬂour2 tsp baking powder2 tsp baking soda¾ tsp kosher salt½ tsp cinnamon3 tbsp ﬂax seed meal6 tbsp/90 ml canola oil7 tbsp/100 ml agave syrup6 tbsp/90 ml coconut milk2 tsp vanilla extract6 ripe bananas; 4 mashed, 2 sliced3 tbsp walnuts, toasted and ground1 cup/130 g chopped dark chocolate,  
60 to 70% cacao1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. In a large bowl, whisk the ﬂour mix, almond ﬂour, baking  powder, 
baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and ﬂax seed meal to remove any lumps. In a small bowl or pitcher, combine the canola oil, 5 tbsp/75 ml of the agave syrup, the coconut milk, and vanilla. Whisk to combine.
3. Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and whisk together by 
hand just until combined. Fold in the mashed bananas, walnuts, and chocolate.
4. Lightly toss the sliced bananas with the remaining 2 tbsp agave 
syrup. Fill the mufﬁn cups almost all the way to the top. T op with about 3 banana slices per mufﬁn.
5. Bake for about 25 minutes, until the mufﬁns are browned and spring 
back slightly to the touch.
These mufﬁns keep very well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.54 / huckleberryI ﬁnd this to be the most satisfying gluten-free recipe we have in the book. Nothing 
about it makes you miss white ﬂour in any way, shape, or form. This recipe calls for strawberry jam, but most other jams or jellies will work as well, so please use this as a vehicle for whatever fresh jam you’ve decided to make this month. You can also omit the jam, throw 2 cups/300 g fresh blueberries into the batter, and turn these into  fantastic gluten-free blueberry mufﬁns.
gluten-free strawberry jam mufﬁns
MAKES 12 MUFFINS
¾ cup + 2 tbsp/210 ml canola oil
¾ cup + 2 tbsp/175 g granulated sugar2 tsp kosher saltZest of 4 lemons, plus ½ cup/120 g 
lemon juice
¾ cup + 2 tbsp/210 ml crème fraîche, 
sour cream, or whole plain yogurt
2 tbsp honey1 tsp vanilla extract4 eggs1¾ cups/220 g Huckleberry Gluten-
Free Flour Mix (page 55)
¼ cup/25 g almond ﬂour2 tsp baking powder¾ cup/180 g Strawberry Jam (facing 
page) or other homemade jam
Powdered sugar for dusting1. Position a rack near the top of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line one 12-cup mufﬁn pan with 12 paper liners.
2. In a large bowl, whisk the canola oil, granulated sugar, salt, lemon 
zest, lemon juice, crème frâiche, honey, and vanilla until combined. Add the eggs and whisk.
3. Add the ﬂour mix, almond ﬂour, and baking powder. Whisk just until 
combined.
4. Scoop the batter into the prepared mufﬁn pans, ﬁlling almost all the 
way to the top.
5. Bake for about 20 minutes, until almost done, but not completely.6. Remove from the oven and make a hole in the center with a small 
spoon, and spoon about 1 tbsp jam into each mufﬁn, mounding it nice and high. Be sure to move quickly, as it’s important to get them back in the oven as soon as possible. Return to the oven and bake for another 3 to 5 minutes, until the jam is set and the mufﬁns are browned and spring back slightly to the touch.
7. Allow to cool and dust the edges with powdered sugar, attempting 
to avoid the jam. 
These keep nicely, wrapped well, at room temperature, for up to  2 days.muffins  / 55Always taste your fruit before baking or cooking with it. If your berries are very sweet, 
hold back a little sugar. Then taste the jam as it cooks; you can always add sugar back in if needed.
Strawberry jam can tend to be overly sweet, but the acidity of the balsamic cuts 
that sweetness a little. You can substitute saba (see page 233) or even a splash of red wine for the balsamic if you have an open bottle lying around.
This jam is also a wonderful addition to the Mini Strawberry Galettes (page 133). 
T oss the fresh strawberries with ¾ cup/180 g jam for a more layered strawberry ﬂavor and then build and bake them as the recipe states.
strawberry jam
MAKES ABOUT 3⁄4 CUP/180 G
4 cups/610 g fresh strawberries, halved
¼ cup/50 g sugar¼ tsp kosher salt¼ cup/60 ml water1 tbsp balsamic vinegar1. Combine everything in a medium saucepan and simmer over 
medium heat for about 10 minutes, until strawberries begin to fall apart.
2. Mash with a potato masher, reduce the heat to medium-low, and 
cook until jammy, about 10 minutes longer. Refrigerate until needed. 
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.
If you like to bake gluten-free, whip up a big batch of this mix and keep it on hand. It lasts forever. You can use a store-bought gluten-free ﬂour mix if you must, but your pastry will not taste nearly as good. I cannot stress enough what a difference this mix makes in both ﬂavor and texture. If you don’t like the graininess of the cornmeal, you can always omit it and use a little more of the oat ﬂour or potato starch.
huckleberry gluten-free flour mix
MAKES 61⁄2 CUPS/815 G
2¾ cups/430 g brown rice ﬂour
1¾ cups/430 g oat ﬂour1¾ cups/230 g potato starch½ cup/90 g cornmealCombine all the ingredients in a bowl and whisk until thoroughly 
blended.
This keeps indeﬁnitely at room temperature.4 A.M.
biscuits 
and sconesI look around the kitchen. The caffeine is kicking in, 
everyone’s energy is beginning to lift, and the night cleaning crew looks as though they might ﬁnally be ready to clear out of our way, which they were sup-posed to do an hour ago.
Our pastry girl is making possets and starts telling 
us how her weird blind date last night kept making dirty jokes about how good her “cupcakes” looked after she told him she was a baker. Needless to say, it doesn’t seem like a second date will be happening.
One of our morning bakers is not here yet. I just 
called her for the fourth time, but she’s not  picking up and I’m about to hurl my phone across the kitchen. It doesn’t look as though she’s going to show up, and that’s going to make our already difﬁcult morning a 
lot harder. Those are the hazards of staying out past 7 p.m. when you’re a baker. You have to remember we have no sun, no trash trucks, and no noisy kids waking us up, so if you hit snooze on your alarm because you’re in the middle of a good dream, you can easily sleep through half your shift and we’re all screwed.I will say that some of my bakers, more than others, 
are prone to such things, but it’s never happened to me. I’m just saying.
Anyway, we have an order for twenty-ﬁve maple 
bacon biscuits at 8 a.m. and another at 8:30. Plus the ﬁfty we need for the house. So someone has to jump in and start making them, or we’re going down.
One girl yells: “Not it!” Then from all around the 
kitchen: “Not it!” “Not it!” “Not it!”
Ugh. Fine. Honestly, they’re all just trying to stay on 
top of their work ﬂow. I get it.
It will push me back a little, but I don’t care. I love 
making biscuits. Ever since my mom taught me how to make them at home I’ve always loved it. She was the ﬁrst one to show me that food can create space, express love, and slow life down in a way nothing else can. Biscuits are all about the process. It’s just a few basic ingredients.
I grab a bowl and start scaling . . .how to make biscuits and sconesSHAPING BISCUITS
SHAPING SCONES60 / huckleberryMy favorite ﬂavor combination has always been salty-sweet. I grew up dipping my 
french fries in my milkshake and eating roast chicken with applesauce and bacon  covered in maple syrup. Just writing this makes my mouth water for these salty-sweet combinations, and that’s what I tried to create with these biscuits. If you want to make your guests really happy when they walk into your house, have these coming out of the oven. The aroma is amazing.
These have been one of our signature items at Huckleberry since we opened. 
They are loaded up with bacon and maple syrup, two of the more expensive ingredi-ents in the bakery. However, using good-quality bacon and maple syrup really does make a difference, so don’t skimp. Though they’re not cheap for us to make, we make them anyway. It’s a labor of love.
We like to use a larger biscuit cutter because these biscuits are one of those 
over-the-top foods that should both look and taste that way. You can always cut them smaller if you like; just remember they’ll bake faster.
maple bacon biscuits
MAKES 18 BISCUITS
15 slices thick-cut bacon
6 cups/750 g all-purpose ﬂour2 tbsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda¼ cup/50 g sugar2¼ tsp kosher salt2 cups/450 g cold unsalted butter,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
½ cup/120 ml cold maple syrup, plus  
¾ cup/180 ml maple syrup for glaze
¾ cup/130 ml cold buttermilk1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Fleur de sel for topping1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C.
2. Lay the bacon on a sheet pan and bake until golden brown, about 
15 minutes. Allow the bacon and bacon fat to cool. Chop the bacon into ½-in/12-mm pieces. Set aside. Reserve 2 tbsp bacon fat; discard the rest.
3. In a very large bowl, combine the ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, 
sugar, and salt and toss well. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the ½ cup/120 ml maple syrup, buttermilk, bacon, and reserved bacon fat. Lightly toss to distribute.
4. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
5. Flatten the dough into a 1-in/2.5-cm thickness and cut out the bis-
cuits. Transfer them to an ungreased sheet pan. Very gently push the scraps back together and cut once more. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or for up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
6. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Remove the biscuits from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Bake from frozen, until cooked through and starting to brown, about  25 minutes. Pour 2 tsp maple syrup over each biscuit to glaze, and bake 5 minutes longer.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.62 / huckleberryThese are your chicken pot pie biscuits, your “please pass the biscuits” biscuits, your 
tea sandwich biscuits, your fried chicken biscuits, and, of course, your go-to simple breakfast biscuits with butter and jam.
When I gave this recipe to a friend, she told me she always cuts the scraps into irreg - 
ular shapes and sprinkles them with cinnamon-sugar, something she said her grandma would always do. Ever since she told me that I always make sure I do that, too.
comfort food biscuits
MAKES THIRTEEN 2-IN/5-CM BISCUITS
3 cups/380 g all-purpose ﬂour
1 tbsp + 2¼ tsp baking powder1 tbsp sugar, plus more for sprinkling1 tsp kosher salt¾ cup/170 g cold unsalted butter, 
cubed
¾ cup/180 g cold cream cheese6 tbsp/90 ml cold heavy cream1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Fleur de sel for sprinkling1. In a very large bowl, combine the ﬂour, baking powder, sugar, and 
salt and toss well. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Then do the same with the cream cheese. Add the cream. Lightly toss to distribute.
2. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
3. Flatten the dough to a 1-in/2.5-cm thickness and cut out the bis-
cuits. Transfer them to an ungreased sheet pan. Very gently push the scraps back together and cut once more. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Remove the biscuits from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle with both sugar and ﬂeur de sel. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 30 minutes.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.biscuits and scones  / 63When I was working on this recipe, my goal was to make something that tasted like a 
very upscale Cheez-It. I have to say, I’m pretty happy with the results.
These biscuits are amazing for breakfast with Vanilla Apple Butter (page 132) or 
just on their own. They’re also great as mini biscuits served with beer, wine, or cock-tails to kick off a party. T o do so, either use a smaller scoop or ﬂatten the dough to a ¾-in/2-cm thickness and cut with a small biscuit cutter. If you set out a bowl of these salty cheesy bites, I promise they’ll be gone in an instant.
If you can’t get your hands on rye ﬂour you can substitute whole-wheat, but I do 
feel there is a slight tanginess that you get only from the rye.
three-cheese rye biscuits
MAKES 12 TO 15 BISCUITS
1½ cups/160 g rye ﬂour
¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour6 tbsp/45 g whole-wheat ﬂour1 tbsp baking powder1 tbsp + 1 tsp sugar1½ tsp kosher salt½ tsp freshly ground black pepper⅛ tsp cayenne pepper¾ cup/170 g cold unsalted butter,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
½ cup + 3 tbsp/160 g cold  
cream cheese
2 cups/160 g grated Cheddar¾ cup/55 g grated Parmesan⅓ cup/80 ml cold buttermilk1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Fleur de sel for sprinkling1. In a very large bowl, combine the rye ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, whole-
wheat ﬂour, baking powder, sugar, salt, black pepper, and cayenne and toss well.
2. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the 
pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Then do the same with the cream cheese. Add the Cheddar, Parmesan, and buttermilk. Lightly toss to distribute.
3. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Form the biscuits by tightly packing the dough into an ice-cream 
scoop. Place on an ungreased sheet pan. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
5. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Remove the biscuits from 
the freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 25 minutes.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.biscuits and scones  / 65These simple biscuits are great with butter and honey or a big hunk of Cheddar 
cheese and quince paste. But my husband likes to eat them with a cool glass of rosé while watching a baseball game after Milo goes to sleep. Whichever way you choose to eat these, they should become one of your family staples. They have an amazing texture and a great savory saltiness that I think makes them good for breakfast, great as a biscuit sandwich at lunch, and perfect with Thanksgiving dinner. 
herb biscuits
MAKES 12 TO 15 BISCUITS
1¾ cups/220 g all-purpose ﬂour 
1 tbsp whole-wheat ﬂour 2 tsp baking powder 1 tsp baking soda 1 tbsp + 1 tsp sugar 1¼ tsp kosher salt ½ tsp freshly ground black pepper ½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g cold unsalted 
butter, cubed
⅓ cup/80 ml cold buttermilk½ cup/40 g grated Cheddar1 tbsp grated Parmesan1 tbsp chopped fresh dill2 tbsp chopped fresh parsley2 tbsp chopped fresh chives1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Fleur de sel for sprinkling1. In a very large bowl, combine the all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat 
ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, salt, and pepper and toss well.
2. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the 
pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk, cheddar, parmesan, dill, parsley, and chives. Lightly toss to distribute.
3. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Flatten the dough into a 1-in/2.5-cm thickness and cut out the bis-
cuits. Transfer them to an ungreased sheet pan. Very gently push the scraps back together and cut once more. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
5. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Remove the biscuits from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 30 minutes.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.66 / huckleberryThese scones taste traditional in every sense. The problem with most  blueberry 
scones is they have been overmixed—the blueberries get smashed and the result is a very off-putting grayish-blue dough. I avoid this problem by mixing the dough almost completely without the blueberries and then rolling them in, like you would a cinnamon roll, at the very last minute. These steps will leave you with a much  cleaner- looking pastry. You can also make great lemon buttermilk scones with this recipe; just omit the blueberries and add the zest of three more lemons. I love to serve these scones with very lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149) or fresh-made jam, honey, or maple syrup.
blueberry buttermilk scones
MAKES 9 OR 10 SCONES
3¼ cups + 2 tbsp/420 g  
all-purpose ﬂour
½ cup + 2 tbsp/130 g granulated sugar,  
plus more for sprinkling
¼ cup/55 g brown sugar1 tbsp baking powder1 tsp baking soda1¼ tsp kosher salt1 cup/230 g cold unsalted butter,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
¾ cup/180 ml cold buttermilkZest of 1 lemon1½ cups/225 g fresh blueberries,  
frozen on a plate
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)1. In a very large bowl, combine the ﬂour, granulated sugar, brown 
sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Throw in the butter and work it in with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk and lemon zest. Lightly toss to distribute.
2. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
3. Pat down the dough to a ¾-in/2-cm thickness, about a 9-by-12-in/ 
23-by-30.5-cm slab, and spread the frozen blueberries evenly on top. Roll the long side of the dough, like a jelly roll, into a log with the blueberries enveloped inside. Shape the dough into a 12-in-/30.5-cm-long  cylinder. Lightly ﬂatten the top so that it is a little less than ½ in/12 mm thick and cut out nine or ten triangles. 
Transfer them to an ungreased sheet pan and freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Remove the scones from the  
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased  sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle liberally with granulated sugar. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 25 minutes. 
These are best eaten the day they’re made.biscuits and scones  / 69These are my mother’s favorite scones because they’re decadent without being overly 
sweet. When you grind the toasted walnut s, you are almost inevitably going to have 
leftovers. Refrigerate any extra and throw them into your next batch of pancakes, oat-meal, or just sprinkle on yogurt. When you’ve owned restaurants long enough, it pains you to throw away something you can use.
I love serving these either plain or with lightly sweetened Whipped Cream 
(page 149).
walnut jam scones
MAKES FIFTEEN 3-IN/7.5-CM SCONES
1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/240 g all-purpose ﬂour
3 tbsp cornmeal1 tbsp + 1½ tsp baking powder4½ tbsp walnuts, toasted and ground1 tbsp + 1½ tsp sugar,  
plus more for topping
¾ tsp kosher salt1 cup + 1 tbsp/240 g cold unsalted 
butter, cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
6 tbsp/90 ml cold buttermilk1¼ cups/230 g raspberry jam or 
Raspberry Preserves (page 70)
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)1. In a very large bowl, combine the ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder, 
walnuts, sugar, and salt and toss well. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk. Lightly toss to distribute.
2. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
3. Form the scones by tightly packing 4 to 5 tbsp of dough into an 
ice-cream scoop, and then transfer to an ungreased sheet pan. Dip a 1-tbsp measure in ﬂour, pressing the back of it into each scone to form a deep well for the jam. Scoop 1 to 2 tbsp of the jam into each well. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
4. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Remove the scones from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans; brush the outer rims with the egg wash and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 30 minutes.
These are best the day they’re made but keep well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.70 / huckleberryThis is a great jam to have kicking around your fridge at all times. It’s good with 
just about everything and is very simple to make. Remember, if you plan to use this in the Walnut Jam Scones (page 69), be sure to cool completely before building your scones. 
As a family, we do most of our shopping on Wednesday at the farmers’ market 
and by Sunday we have little amounts of assorted berries hanging around the fridge that are just screaming to be used. We often sub those assorted berries for the  raspberries in this recipe and it makes a great mixed berry jam. 
raspberry preserves
MAKES ABOUT 11⁄2 CUPS/275 G
5 cups/620 g fresh raspberries 
½ tsp kosher salt¾ cup/150 g sugar⅔ cup/160 ml water 1. Combine everything in a medium stainless-steel pot. Cover and 
simmer over medium-low heat until the berries fall apart, about 10 minutes.
2. Uncover and cook down until thickened, stirring frequently to avoid 
burning, about 25 minutes. If you do burn it, sadly, there is no saving it.
3. Refrigerate until needed.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.72 / huckleberryI started developing this scone after spending a month in France with Josh and my 
family, just before we got married. I became obsessed with having light and delicious whole-wheat scones for Huckleberry. I wanted them to taste as close to graham  crackers as I could manage. We’ve tried to replace these at Huckleberry numerous times with other variations and we always end up with enough angry snarls that we have to bring them back right away.
During the holidays, we love to add the zest of an orange and substitute dried 
cranberries for the raisins. These are also delicious with currants instead of raisins. Serve them with very lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149).
whole-wheat raisin scones
MAKES 10 SCONES
¾ cup/130 g raisins
1½ cups/190 g all-purpose ﬂour½ cup/60 g whole-wheat ﬂour2 tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda⅓ cup/65 g sugar, plus more for 
sprinkling
½ tsp kosher salt½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g cold, unsalted 
butter, cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
⅓ cup/80 ml cold buttermilk1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)1. Plump the raisins in 1 cup/240 ml warm water for 10 minutes, then 
drain and ﬁnely chop.
2. In a very large bowl, combine the all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat 
ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, sugar, and salt and toss well. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk and  raisins. Lightly toss to distribute.
3. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Shape the dough into a 12-in/30.5-cm-long cylinder. Lightly ﬂatten 
the top and cut into ten triangles. Transfer to an ungreased sheet pan and freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
5. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Remove the scones from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Bake from frozen until baked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 25 minutes.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.74 / huckleberryAt the bakery, we mix up big batches of egg wash and run through them like crazy. 
Using an egg wash is an absolute must in many recipes in this book, but the actual recipe for egg wash itself is pretty ﬂexible. You can always use whole milk if you don’t have cream kicking around your fridge. You can always use one whole egg instead of the two yolks. And if you have no e ggs, you can use just the cream, but it will be a 
 little less shiny. And, ﬁnally, if you don’t have any dairy in the house, use the eggs alone. Just make sure to always use the salt.
egg wash
MAKES ABOUT 1⁄4 CUP/60 ML
2 egg yolks
2 tbsp heavy creamPinch of kosher saltCombine the egg yolks, heavy cream, and salt and whisk until homo-
geneous.  Refrigerate until needed. 
This keeps, refrigerated, for up to 2 days.biscuits and scones  / 75Make these scones for all the poor souls who have been scared away by those horrible 
leaden dry hunks of dough ruining the rep of this beautiful pastry. These scones taste as if hazelnuts, butter, and chocolate had a baby, and oh what a cute baby it is! They give scones a good name.
I ﬁnd using ground nuts in scones gives them a fantastically tender and crumbly 
texture. It’s one of my favorite scone tricks, up there with not being afraid to use a lot of butter. I always serve these with very lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149).
chocolate hazelnut scones
MAKES 10 SCONES
1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/40 g all-purpose ﬂour
½ cup/50 g hazelnuts, toasted and 
ground
1 tbsp + 1½ tsp baking powder5 tbsp/40 g sugar, plus more for 
sprinkling
1 tsp kosher salt1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g cold unsalted 
butter, cut into ½-in/12-mm cubes
6 tbsp/90 ml cold buttermilk1 tsp vanilla extract1 cup/140 g chopped dark chocolate,  
60 to 70% cacao
1 batch Egg Wash (facing page)1. In a very large bowl, combine the ﬂour, hazelnuts, baking powder, 
sugar, and salt and toss well. Throw in the cold butter and work it with your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk, vanilla, and chocolate. Lightly toss to distribute.
2. Immediately dump everything onto a clean surface with more than 
enough space to work the dough. Using only the heel of your palm, quickly ﬂatten out the dough. Gather the dough back together in a mound and repeat. After two or three repetitions, the dough should begin holding together. Be sure to avoid overworking. You should still see some pea-size bits of butter running through it.
3. Form the scones by tightly packing the dough into an ice-cream 
scoop; and then transfer to an ungreased sheet pan. Freeze for at least 2 hours before baking, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Remove the scones from the 
freezer. Space them with plenty of breathing room on two ungreased sheet pans, brush with the egg wash, and sprinkle liberally with sugar. Bake from frozen until cooked through, nicely browned, and easily lifted off the pan, about 30 minutes.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.4:30 A.M.
rustic cakes 
and teacakesFour-thirty is the morning’s sweet spot. We’re awake. 
We’re ﬂowing. We’re hitting our stride and we own the kitchen. There’s no front-of-house staff; there’s no customer feedback. We have no awareness that the egg delivery will be late, the bacon will burn, the meat soup will be mislabeled veggie, and a server will spill a tub of jam all over the walk-in ﬂoor literally 5 minutes after he clocked in.
I turn around and look at my morning girls and get 
lost in a temporary moment of pride. These girls are good and it’s not easy to ﬁnd good morning bakers. A lot of people come through my kitchen and ask for jobs. Some have spent a small fortune on culinary school; some are fresh off the street with no experience but just want to learn. I generally prefer the latter. Regardless of their background or enthusiasm, most of them don’t work out. They start with good intentions, but eventually the early mornings, the repetition, or the reality that this is real manual labor gets to them and they leave to pursue something else.
I’d say three out of every four who start at Huckle-
berry don’t last longer than a couple of months. But the ones who do are tough and I love them for it. They have what you would call “hops” in basketball, or as an old chef friend of mine used to put it, “They can dance.” It’s not that they’re good in the club (although many of my girls with a day off the next day are pretty good at that, too). It’s that they even-
tually can get into the rhythm, and, just like a good dancer, they know when to move quick, when to slow down, and when to give the ﬂoor to someone else. These qualities are essential when you’re part of a team that’s creating hundreds of pastries and des-serts each morning, all the while not letting quality drop for a second.
Often a new baker will see one of my cake recipes 
and look like a deer in headlights. Most of my recipes at Huckleberry don’t have step-by-step instructions, they’re just a list of ingredients and then a vague,  if at all, description of what to combine with what. The good bakers aren’t afraid to ask questions, so they don’t just learn the recipe, they learn our style  of baking. They begin to realize that if they know what they are trying to create—whether it’s a scone, quick bread, or a more complicated cake—they just need a list of ingredients and they will know immedi-ately which mixing method to choose. Eventually, all my morning girls can translate any recipe they see into exactly what it should be, and I am indebted to them for it.
These moments when I see them all working together 
seamlessly are what makes it all worthwhile. But I can’t absorb them for too long, I’ve got to get this blueberry cornmeal cake in the oven.how to line cake pans
1
7 82
39 104
5680 / huckleberryThis is our signature cake at Huckleberry. I actually made this cake with vanilla-corn 
ice cream for Josh when I was trying out for the pastry chef position at Rustic Canyon. This recipe was a favorite then and still is after all these years.
You can really play with the fruit on this cake. Instead of blueberries, try fresh 
huckleberries or thinly sliced strawberries sprinkled with brown sugar instead of white. Or, during the holidays, add the zest of one orange and top with fresh cran-berries and both brown and white sugar. And, while I’m giving you all my secrets, these are also killer as mufﬁns.
blueberry cornmeal cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
¾ cup + 1½ tbsp/195 g unsalted 
butter, cubed, at room temperature
¾ cup + 3 tbsp/190 g sugar, plus 2 tbsp1½ tsp kosher salt2 eggs4½ tbsp canola oil3 tbsp maple syrup1 tbsp vanilla extract1½ cups/200 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/120 g cornmeal2¼ tsp baking powder¾ tsp baking soda1 cup + 2 tbsp/270 ml whole plain yogurt½ cup + 1 tbsp/130 g ricotta1 cup/150 g fresh blueberries1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan (see page 78).
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
¾ cup + 3 tbsp/190 g sugar, and salt on medium-high speed, until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well.
3. With the mixer on low speed, pour in the canola oil, maple syrup, and 
vanilla. Pause mixing and add the ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, yogurt, and ricotta. Mix cautiously, just until incorpo-rated. Do not overmix!
4. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan, top with the blueberries, 
and sprinkle with the remaining sugar. Bake for 1 hour and 10 min-utes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
5. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This cake is best served the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.rustic cakes and teacakes  / 83This is one of my go-to winter breakfast cakes, when there is almost no fruit to cook 
with and I’m getting a little tired of lemon by itself. This cake is buttery, but the richness  is cut by its strong lemon ﬂavor and the nuttiness of the toasted pistachios. It is very important to toast your pistachios to a golden brown to get that rich ﬂavor. Another integral part of this recipe is not chopping the nuts for the topping too ﬁnely: if I could ask you to cut each nut in half and not sound like a total jerk I would, because the larger pieces on top of the cake make it look rustic and beautiful.
This cake can easily be made gluten-free by decreasing the butter to 1½ cups/ 
330 g and subbing 1 cup plus 2 tbsp/140 g gluten-free ﬂour mix (see page 55) for the all-purpose ﬂour. You can serve this cake with lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149) or not; it can completely stand on its own.
lemon pistachio cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
CAKE
1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/430 g unsalted  
butter, cubed, at room temperature
2½ cups/450 g sugar2½ tsp kosher saltZest of 3 lemons1 tsp vanilla extract8 eggs2 cups/200 g toasted, ground pistachios2 cups/200 g almond meal¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour2 tsp baking powder
GLAZE
½ cup/100 g toasted chopped pistachios½ cup/100 g sugar½ cup/100 g freshly squeezed  
lemon juice1. T o make the cake: Position a rack in the middle of your oven and 
preheat to 350°F/180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan (see page 78).
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, salt, and lemon zest on medium-high speed, until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the vanilla and eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the pistachios, almond meal, ﬂour, and baking powder on low speed. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated.
3. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 1 hour and 5 min-
utes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
4. While the cake is cooling, make the glaze: Simmer the pistachios, 
sugar, and lemon juice together until the sugar is completely dissolved and the pistachios are nicely coated, about 2 minutes. Set aside.
5. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
6. While the cake is still warm, immediately spoon the glaze and nuts 
all over the top.
This cake is best served the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.84 / huckleberryThis cake is one of the most beautiful cakes we serve at Huckleberry, but it is not a 
cake that ﬂies off the shelves. Honestly, it’s just not for everyone, but if you love the earthy taste of buckwheat, as I do, this buttery cake will be a favorite.
If buckwheat isn’t your thing, remove it from this recipe and substitute different 
kinds of ﬂours, like whole-wheat, rye, spelt, quinoa, oat, etc. In terms of swapping out the fruit, I don’t say this often, but I think apples work best with this cake, and other fruits don’t quite cut the buckwheat the same way.
apple buckwheat cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
CAKE
1 cup/225 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
1⅔ cups/340 g sugar, plus 2 tbsp2 tsp kosher salt1 tbsp vanilla extract6 eggs3 or 4 apples; 1 peeled and grated, and  
2 or 3 peeled and sliced ⅛ in/3 mm thick, cores reserved
1½ cups/150 g almond ﬂour¾ cup/100 g buckwheat ﬂour⅔ cup/75 g all-purpose ﬂour⅓ cup/55 g cornmeal2 tsp baking powder
GLAZE
½ cup/100 g sugar½ cup/120 ml waterPinch of kosher salt1 vanilla bean, scraped (optional)Apple cores (reserved from making 
the cake)1. T o make the cake: Position a rack in the middle of your oven and 
preheat to 350°F/180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan (see page 78).
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the 
butter, 1⅔ cups/340 g sugar, and salt on medium-high speed, until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the vanilla and eggs, one at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl well between each addition. Add the grated apple and mix. Then add the almond ﬂour, buckwheat ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, cornmeal, and baking powder. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix!
3. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan, top with the sliced apples, 
arranging them in pretty concentric circles, and sprinkle with the 
remaining sugar. Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until a cake tester 
comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 min-utes in the pan. 
4. Meanwhile, make the glaze: Simmer the sugar, water, salt, vanilla 
bean seeds and pod (if using), and apple cores together in a sauce-pan until the sugar is completely dissolved, about 2 minutes. Set aside to infuse.
5. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
6. While the cake is still warm, brush the glaze all over the top and sides 
and garnish with the nonedible vanilla pod.
This cake is best served the day it’s made but keeps well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.86 / huckleberryThis cake is a real testament to our whatever-vessel-suits-your-fancy theory. Dump 
this batter into a cake pan, teacake pan, mufﬁn tin, or a Bundt pan and it will bake up beautifully and be a big hit.
I rarely include the nuts at home, but we always do at Huckleberry. If you are aller-
gic to nuts, omit the almond ﬂour and toasted walnuts and increase the whole-wheat ﬂour to 1 cup/125 g.
chocolate banana walnut cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
½ cup/110 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
½ cup/100 g sugar, plus 2 tbsp1 tsp kosher salt2 eggs1 cup/130 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/90 g whole-wheat ﬂour¼ cup/30 g almond ﬂour1½ tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda1 cup/240 ml whole plain yogurt2 tsp vanilla extract5 very ripe bananas, mashed; plus 
3 bananas, sliced
¾ cup/130 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao
½ cup/60 g walnuts, chopped and 
toasted1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan or springform pan (see page 78).
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
½ cup/100 g sugar, and salt on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of bowl well. Pause mixing and add the all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, almond ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, yogurt, vanilla, mashed bananas, chocolate, and walnuts. Mix cautiously, just until incorpo-rated. Do not overmix!
3. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan, top with the sliced bananas, 
and sprinkle with the remaining sugar. Bake for 1 hour and 5 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
4. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.rustic cakes and teacakes  / 87At ﬁrst, I have to admit, I didn’t buy the whole no-gluten thing and found it pretty 
annoying. But when I started to meet people who truly are gluten intolerant, I began to embrace gluten-free baking. Now I’m having a lot of fun with it. The reality is, I’m in this business to make people smile, and baking things for people who struggle to ﬁnd pastries they can enjoy gives me a special satisfaction.
My one caveat with this recipe is that the lack of gluten causes the chocolate 
to sink. But that never bothered anyone, trust me. I often serve this with lightly sweet-ened Whipped Cream (page 149), but it is also great on its own.
gluten-free chocolate hazelnut cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g unsalted butter, 
cubed, at room temperature
1½ cups/300 g sugar, plus 2 tbsp2½ tsp kosher saltZest of 1 orange1 tbsp vanilla extract6 eggs1½ cups/110 g hazelnuts, toasted, 
cooled and ground
1½ cups/140 g almond ﬂour¾ cup + 1 tbsp/105 g Huckleberry 
Gluten-Free Flour Mix (page 55)
2 tsp baking powder1½ cups/250 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan (see page 78).
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the 
butter, 1½ cups/300 g sugar, salt, and orange zest on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the vanilla and eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the hazelnuts, almond ﬂour, gluten-free ﬂour mix, baking powder, and chopped chocolate. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated.
3. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan and sprinkle with the 
remaining sugar. Bake for about 1 hour, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan. 
4. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.88 / huckleberryThe more I bake, the more I ﬁnd myself playing with different grains; not for health 
reasons but for their wonderful depth of ﬂavor. I added the rye ﬂour to this recipe at the last minute because of its nutty sourness, and the toasted wheat germ for its sweet roundness. This cake is a perfect teatime treat; it’s buttery, earthy, and not overly sweet. When putting this cake together, be sure to have a few pieces of pear poke through the crumble so they brown, making the cake more ﬂavorful and giving it a beautiful rustic look.
Because pears have a short season I sometimes make this cake with blueberries, 
raspberries, cranberries, apricots, peaches, or ﬁgs.
pear whole-wheat crumb cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
TOPPING
½ cup/110 g unsalted butter,  
at room temperature
½ cup + 2 tbsp/55 g almond ﬂour¼ cup + 2 tbsp/20 g rolled oats¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar¼ cup/30 g whole-wheat ﬂour3 tbsp all-purpose ﬂour2 tbsp wheat germ, toasted2 tbsp brown sugar¼ tsp kosher salt¼ cup/20 g sliced almonds
CAKE
¾ cup/170 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
1 cup/200 g granulated sugar2 tbsp brown sugar¾ tsp kosher salt1 tbsp vanilla extract2 eggs1¼ cups/160 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/55 g wheat germ, toasted¼ cup/25 g almond ﬂour3 tbsp rye ﬂour2 tsp baking powder½ tsp baking soda1 cup/240 ml whole plain yogurtZest of 1 orange, fruit reserved3 pears, peeled and thickly sliced 1. T o make the topping: In a bowl, combine the butter, almond ﬂour, 
oats, granulated sugar, whole-wheat ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, wheat germ, brown sugar, salt, and sliced almonds and blend with your ﬁngertips until homogenous. Refrigerate until needed.
2. T o make the cake: Position a rack in the middle of your oven and 
preheat to 350°F/180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan or springform pan (see page 78).
3. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
granulated sugar, brown sugar, and salt on medium-high speed, until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the vanilla and eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the all-purpose ﬂour, wheat germ, almond ﬂour, rye ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, yogurt, and orange zest. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix!
4. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan and cover evenly with the 
pears. T op with the crumble, allowing a little fruit to poke through. Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan; then squeeze the orange over the entire cake. 
5. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.rustic cakes and teacakes  / 91This cake is as traditional as it gets, comfort food at its best. You can mix and assemble 
it the day before and refrigerate the completely assembled unbaked cake overnight. In the morning, just pull your cake out of the refrigerator and put it directly into your preheated oven. But if you do this, remember, it will take a little longer because it’s going in cold, so use a cake tester to be sure it’s done.
The batter is incredibly versatile. This is a recipe to play with and cater to your own 
family. Be creative: add fruit, cinnamon, chocolate chips. The possibilities are endless.
old-fashioned coffee cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
CRUMBLE
5½ tbsp/80 g unsalted butter,  
at room temperature
½ cup/65 g all-purpose ﬂour½ cup/45 g almond meal4½ tbsp/55 g sugar½ tsp kosher salt
STREUSEL
1 cup/130 g walnuts, toasted3 tbsp sugar½ tsp cinnamon
CAKE
1½ cups/340 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/380 g sugar1½ tsp kosher salt1 tbsp + 1 tsp vanilla extract3 eggs2½ cups/310 g all-purpose ﬂour½ cup/45 g almond ﬂour1 tbsp baking powder½ tsp baking soda1½ cups/350 ml sour cream1. T o make the crumble: In a bowl, combine the butter, all-purpose 
ﬂour, almond meal, sugar, and salt and rub together between your ﬁngertips until everything is moistened, but a few little bits of  butter remain. Refrigerate until needed.
2. T o make the streusel: In a food processor, combine the walnuts, 
sugar, and cinnamon and pulse until the walnuts are ground but not becoming a paste. Set aside.
3. T o make the cake: Position a rack in the middle of your oven and 
preheat to 350°F/180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan or springform pan (see page 78).
4. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, and salt on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the vanilla and eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the all-purpose ﬂour, almond ﬂour, baking powder, baking soda, and sour cream. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix!
5. Scoop half of the batter into the prepared pan and smooth it with 
damp ﬁngertips or a small offset spatula. Sprinkle evenly with the streusel. T op with the rest of the batter, coaxing it into covering the streusel layer. T op with the crumble. (At this point, the assem-bled cake can be refrigerated for up to 2 days.) Bake for 1 hour and 10 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean (a little longer if coming from the refrigerator). Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
6. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps well, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.92 / huckleberryThe ﬁrst persimmons usually make their appearance around Halloween, right when 
I’m starting to feel festive and craving wintery spices, and this is always the ﬁrst thing I make. When I ran this at Rustic Canyon, I called it a steamed cake, even though it really wasn’t; because of its soft, gooey texture, I didn’t know how else to describe it.It’s important to use ridiculously soft Hachiya persimmons for this cake. The harder Fuyu persimmons will just not work. If for some re ason you ﬁnd yourself staring at the  
wrong persimmons, make a different cake and use those Fuyus in a salad. T op this cake with a dusting of powdered sugar once it’s cooled.
persimmon spice cake
MAKES ONE 10-IN/25-CM CAKE
½ cup/80 g raisins
5 to 6 very ripe Hachiya persimmons1 lemon, zested and juiced1 tbsp vanilla extract2 tsp baking soda½ cup/110 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
1 cup/220 g brown sugar¾ tsp kosher salt1 egg1½ cups/190 g all-purpose ﬂour2 tsp baking powder1 tsp cinnamon¼ tsp nutmeg¼ tsp ginger¼ tsp cloves1 cup/120 g walnuts, toasted  
and chopped
½ cup/75 g coarsely chopped dates2 tbsp granulated sugar1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Line and grease a 10-in/25-cm round cake pan (see page 78). Plump the raisins in 1 cup/240 ml warm water for 10  minutes, then drain and ﬁnely chop.
2. Remove the stems from the persimmons and put in a food proces-
sor or blender with half of the lemon juice. (Discard the remaining juice.) Purée until smooth. Strain the purée, using a wooden spoon to help work it through the mesh; it will take some elbow grease. Discard the skins and set aside 1½ cups/360 g of purée.
3. Add the vanilla and baking soda to the purée and whisk to combine. 
It may foam and thicken. Set aside.
4. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
brown sugar, salt, and lemon zest on medium-high speed, until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the egg and then the purée mixture. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the ﬂour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, and cloves. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix! Fold in the walnuts, raisins, and dates by hand.
5. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan and sprinkle with the gran-
ulated sugar. Bake for 45 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
6. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Gently pull the parchment from every nook and cranny of the cake, being careful not to break the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This keeps beautifully, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.rustic cakes and teacakes  / 93This cake is delicious by itself, with a cup of tea or served with strawberry jam (see 
page 55) and whipped cream (see page 149). If you have any leftover pear poaching liquid (see page 44), quince poaching liquid (see page 138), or lemon glaze (see page 46), it can be fun to use that instead of the maple syrup. Feel free to play with different fruit in this teacake, too, but lean toward the less juicy, like blackberries, grapes, ﬁgs, and cranberries, just to name a few.
apricot–vanilla bean pound cake
MAKES ONE 9-BY-5-IN/23-BY-12-CM LOAF
1 vanilla bean
1 cup + 2 tbsp/230 g sugar1½ cups/190 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ tsp baking powder¾ tsp kosher salt1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g unsalted butter,  
cubed, at room temperature
2 eggs3 egg yolks½ cup/120 g ricotta2 tsp vanilla extract10 ripe apricots, halved⅓ cup/80 ml maple syrup1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Grease a 9-by-5 in/23-by-12-cm loaf pan. Split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds. 
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, combine the 
vanilla bean seeds and sugar. Mix on low speed until the sugar is infused with the vanilla, about 5 minutes. Add the ﬂour, baking  powder, and salt to the bowl and mix slowly to combine. Add the butter and mix until still lumpy but starting to come together.  Incorporate the eggs, egg yolks, ricotta, and vanilla and mix until fairly smooth. With the mixer off, fold in the apricots by hand.
3. Scoop half the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 60 to 65 min-
utes, until the cake springs back slightly to the touch, but it still looks a little wet right at the center. Do not overbake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan.
4. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
5. In a small saucepan, warm the maple syrup and brush it on all sides 
of the cake while the cake is still warm.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.94 / huckleberryI love this, my son loves this, my husband loves this, and you will love this. There is 
something so fun and naughty about eating chocolate for breakfast, and I for one think it should be done more often. Even though this teacake is rich in chocolate  it is not overly sweet and the coffee gives it a slightly more grown-up ﬂavor, but not  so grown-up that the little ones won’t love it.
Add ½ cup/60 g chopped, toasted walnuts if you’re in the mood. These are also 
great made into mufﬁns. Serve plain or with lightly sweetened Whipped Cream  (page 149) on the side.
chocolate chocolate teacake
MAKES ONE 9-BY-5-IN/23-BY-12-CM LOAF
¾ cup/100 g pastry ﬂour
6 tbsp/45 g all-purpose ﬂour6 tbsp/30 g unsweetened cocoa powder1 tsp baking powder¾ tsp baking soda½ cup/120 ml strong brewed coffee, 
cooled
½ cup/120 ml buttermilk1 tsp vanilla extract1¾ cups/300 g coarsely chopped  
dark chocolate, 60 to 70% cacao
½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g unsalted butter,  
cubed, at room temperature
1 cup + 2 tbsp/225 g sugar½ tsp kosher salt3 eggsPowdered sugar for topping (optional)1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Grease a 9-by-5-in/23-by-12-cm loaf pan.
2. Sift together the pastry ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, cocoa powder, 
 baking powder, and baking soda. Set aside.
3. Combine the coffee, buttermilk, and vanilla. Set aside. Melt ¾ cup/ 
130 g of the chocolate gently over a double boiler or in a small bowl set over a small saucepan of simmering water. Remove the pan from the heat, but leave the chocolate over the double boiler to keep warm while you mix the cake.
4. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, and salt on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the ﬂour mixture. Mix just until incorporated. With the mixer on low speed, pour in the coffee mixture. Fold in both the melted and chopped chocolate.
5. Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 55 minutes, or 
until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! Allow to cool completely.
6. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate. Once cooled, top with powdered sugar, if desired.
This keeps beautifully, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 4 days.rustic cakes and teacakes  / 97This cake is the quintessential teatime treat. It is slightly dense and extremely moist. 
When I make this at home, I like to make it gluten-free by subbing our gluten-free ﬂour mix (see page 55) for the all-purpose and pastry ﬂours. Gluten-free or not, it’s imperative to use the lemon kumquat glaze—otherwise it doesn’t have the punch that every lemon lover needs.
lemon kumquat poppy teacake
MAKES ONE 9-BY-5-IN/23-BY-12-CM LOAF
1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g unsalted butter,  
at room temperature
1 cup/200 g sugar, plus 3 tbsp¾ tsp kosher saltZest of 8 kumquats, fruit reservedZest and juice of 3 lemonsZest of 1 tangerine2 eggs, plus 2 egg yolks1¼ cups/160 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup/35 g pastry ﬂour1½ tsp baking powder1 tbsp + 1 tsp poppy seeds2 tbsp buttermilk1 tbsp vanilla extract1. Position a rack in the middle of your oven and preheat to 350°F/ 
180°C. Grease a 9-by-5-in/23-by-12-cm loaf pan.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
1 cup/200 g sugar, salt, and kumquat, lemon, and tangerine zests on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes.
3. Incorporate the eggs and egg yolks slowly, one at a time, beating 
well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the all-purpose ﬂour, pastry ﬂour, baking powder, poppy seeds, buttermilk, and vanilla. Mix cautiously, just until incorporated. Do not overmix!
4. Scoop the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 1 hour, or until the 
cake springs back when touched and a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake!
5. Meanwhile, combine the lemon juice, 3 tbsp sugar, and reserved 
kumquats in a blender. Blend to a coarse purée. In a small saucepan, simmer the kumquat purée until the sugar dissolves completely, about 2 minutes. Set aside and allow to infuse while the cake bakes.
6. Quickly remove the cake from the pan, strain the glaze, and brush it 
on all sides of the cake while the cake is still warm.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.98 / huckleberryThis is a spiced-up version of the cake we all grew up with. I love to serve it with cream 
cheese on the side, but it is also incredible topped with a ﬂuffy layer of cream cheese frosting. When I plan to frost the cake, I often bake it in a 10-by-2-in/25-by-5-cm springform or cake pan and, when cool, top it with the frosting. T o make the frosting, simply take 2 cups/450 g room-temperature cream cheese, ½ cup/45 g sifted pow-dered sugar, and 2 tsp vanilla and mix in a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attach-ment until ﬂuffy and smooth. After frosting, top with extra chopped toasted walnuts and a little sprinkle of cinnamon. It’s perfect for a birthday brunch.
carrot apple teacake
MAKES ONE 9-BY-5-IN/23-BY-12-CM LOAF
¾ cup/130 g raisins
¾ cup/180 ml canola oil1 cup + 2 tbsp/230 g sugar,  
plus more for topping
1¼ tsp kosher saltZest of 1 orange3 egg whites1 tbsp vanilla extract1 cup + 2 tbsp/140 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup + 2 tbsp/45 g whole-wheat ﬂour1½ tsp wheat germ or ground ﬂax seeds¾ tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda2 tsp cinnamon½ tsp nutmeg1½ cups/180 g shredded, unpeeled carrots¾ cup/80 g grated, peeled apple1¼ cups/150 g chopped walnuts, toasted1. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Grease a 9-by-5-in/23-by-12-cm  
loaf pan. Plump the raisins in 1 cup/240 ml warm water for 10 min-utes, then strain and ﬁnely chop.
2. Dump everything into a big bowl and stir together. No, really. Throw 
it all into a bowl and mix it all up together. That’s it. Sometimes I even like to use my hands.
3. Pour the batter into the prepared pan and sprinkle with sugar. Bake 
for 50 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not over-bake! Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan. 
4. Place a ﬂat plate on top of the cake and pan. Carefully invert the 
cake onto the plate by ﬂipping both upside down. Then lift the pan off the cake. Rest your serving plate on the bottom of the cake and turn the cake right-side up onto the plate.
This keeps beautifully, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 4 days.5:30 A.M.
breads and 
other things 
that rise“Mom” is the most important member of our bread 
team, and I’m not just saying this because we’re a female-run kitchen. When I say “mom,” I’m not talking about my mom, or myself, or any matriarch who works for us. I’m talking about our bread starter, a.k.a. “the mother.” The mother needs to be fed twice a day ( every day! ) in order to be the foundation for 
many of the breads we produce at Huckleberry.
I turn to Melissa, our enthusiastic new bread girl, and 
ask the question I ask every morning at this time: “Did you feed the mother yet?” She’s slow to respond, so I brace myself because I have a sense that I know the answer. “No, I’m sorry, I forgot,” she says earnestly and apologetically. “I’m doing a bunch of things right now: making ﬂatbread, pulling brioche out of the oven, and mixing the croissant dough. I’m sorry I missed it.” I roll my eyes with a high level of annoyance and not much sympathy, even though I know she’s working hard and there’s a lot to manage on that station. “This is not really something that you can forget! ” I say with as much diplomacy as I 
can muster, which is not very much. “If you feed the mother too late, it can dramatically affect how our bread tastes and feels, and if you’re really late, the bread could be way too sour or worse, you could kill the mother and it can take weeks to get the bread looking and tasting right again!”
Now keep in mind, I don’t believe all the voodoo 
magic crap you hear from other bakeries about how the ﬂavor of their mother resulted from making it on the night of a full moon, or that it was brought over from France in a suitcase, or that their weird hippie friend blessed it with a combination of sage, 
lavender, and honeysuckle. A mother is good because you start it correctly and feed it correctly and care for it properly; but like anything good, it takes time to build, and right now the new girl is in serious danger of letting all that hard work go to waste!
Between you and me, I feel the same way about 
bagels, pizza, and sourdough bread. I believe you can achieve great quality in all these things without ﬂying your water in from New York, your ﬂour from Italy, or moving your bakery to San Francisco. The best thing about bread is that it’s about process. We start with a few simple good-quality ingredients, and then it’s all about how it’s treated and how committed you are to getting it exactly as you want it. People say it takes a lot of patience to make bread, but it really just takes a willingness to mess up a lot and keep trying in order to get the ingredients to do what you want them to do. But I don’t have time to explain all this in this moment to Melissa, because poor Mom is wasting away. “Aaagh,” I say trying my best to be patient. “Just feed the poor girl, please!”
Now that my biscuits are cooling down in the freezer, 
I turn my energy to baking the English mufﬁns. Luck-ily I turned my griddle on more than an hour ago, so I can jump right in.102 / huckleberryWe have these English mufﬁns at Huckleberry every day. Occasionally, we make a 
larger batch and set some dough aside to mix with something like chocolate chips, cinnamon and raisins, dried blueberries and ﬂax seeds, roasted jalapeños and Ched-dar, Gruyère and bacon, and so many other combinations. Feel free to play with these and ﬁgure out the kind of English mufﬁns your family loves. If you do choose to mix in ingredients, do it in the last minute of mixing your dough. Also, please always split English mufﬁns by hand, do not slice them in half, so you can see and enjoy all those nooks and crannies. And if you’ve gone through the trouble of making these, I highly recommend making Green Eggs and Ham (page 223) for your family, too.
english mufﬁns
MAKES ABOUT 12 MUFFINS
3 cups/710 ml buttermilk
2 tbsp active dry yeast3 tbsp unsalted butter,  
at room temperature
3 tbsp honey6 cups/820 g bread ﬂour¼ cup/50 g sugar4½ tsp kosher salt1 cup/160 g cornmeal1. Warm 1½ cups/355 ml of the buttermilk in a small saucepan, but do 
not boil. Place the remaining 1½ cups/355 ml cold buttermilk in the bowl of a stand mixer with the yeast and whisk by hand to combine. Add the warm buttermilk to the cold buttermilk mixture and whisk to blend. Add the butter, honey, bread ﬂour, sugar, and salt and mix on low speed with the dough hook attachment for about 1 minute, until the dough comes together. Increase the speed to medium-high and work the dough for about 2 minutes, until smooth.
2. Transfer the dough to a greased bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and 
refrigerate for 1 hour.
3. Sprinkle ½ cup/80 g of the cornmeal on a clean work surface 
and dump the dough out onto it. Sprinkle another ¼ cup/40 g of the cornmeal on top of the dough and ﬂatten it into a disk with a 1-in/2.5-cm thickness.
4. Sprinkle the last ¼ cup/40 g of the cornmeal onto a sheet pan. With 
a 3-in/7.5-cm round cutter, cut the English mufﬁns from the dough. Cut them as closely as possible, minimizing the amount of scraps, as you cannot combine and reroll this dough.
5. Arrange the English mufﬁns, 1 in/2.5 cm apart, on the sheet pan. 
Allow the dough to rise for 1 hour at room temperature. Or refriger-ate overnight and allow to rise for 1 hour in the morning.
6. As the English mufﬁns near readiness, preheat your oven to 350°F/ 
180°C. When the oven is hot, heat an ungreased griddle or large cast-iron pan over medium-high heat.
7. Drop the English mufﬁns onto the griddle and cook for about 1 minute  
on each side, until golden brown.
8. Return the English mufﬁns to the sheet pan and immediately bake 
for 8 to 10 minutes, until they feel light when lifted from the pan. If working in batches, bake each batch as it comes off the griddle.
These keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days; or frozen, for up to 1 month.breads and other things that rise  / 105Good brioche is all about good ingredients. It’s a fair amount of butter and egg, so 
they must be really good European-style butter and organic farm eggs with big yellow yolks. When I set out to create this recipe, I wanted to create a bread that felt like pure decadence and comfort. I wanted it to taste like soft buttered toast without needing to be slathered in butter at all. 
brioche
MAKES ONE LOAF
3 tbsp whole milk
2 tbsp active dry yeast1¾ cups/215 g all-purpose ﬂour1¾ cups/185 g bread ﬂour¼ cup + 1 tsp/55 g sugar1½ tsp kosher salt5 eggs, beaten1 cup/220 g unsalted butter, very soft1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)DAY ONE
1. Slightly warm the milk and pour into the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted 
with the dough hook. Add the yeast and whisk by hand to combine. Add the all-purpose ﬂour, bread ﬂour, sugar, salt, and eggs. Mix on low speed until the dough comes together, 1 to 2 minutes.
2. Increase the mixer speed to medium-high and work the dough for  
6 minutes. Pause about every minute to push the dough back down into the bowl and off the hook.
3. Reduce the mixer speed to low and slowly add the butter, a little 
at a time, over the course of 2 minutes. Pause halfway through to scrape down the bowl and hook. When the butter begins to blend in, increase the mixer speed to medium-high to fully incorporate the butter and bring the dough back together, 4 to 6 minutes longer.
4. Transfer the dough to a greased sheet pan, cover with plastic wrap, 
and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
5. Divide the dough into two equal balls, about 11 oz/315 g each. Trans-
fer to a greased sheet pan, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate overnight.
DAY TWO
6. Grease a 5-by-9-in/12-by-23-cm loaf pan. Work with one dough 
ball at a time. First ﬂatten into a disc, then lift an edge and press it into the center. Work your way around the circumference, pressing every edge to the center until you have a ball. Flip the ball over so the pleated side is down and the smooth side is up. Cup the dough in your palm and massage the seam side of the dough ﬁrmly against the work surface in a circular motion, allowing the friction to seal the seams. Set aside and cover with plastic wrap or a slightly damp kitchen towel while you shape the next ball.
7. Place the balls into the loaf pan, cover loosely with plastic, and allow 
to rise in a warm place until more than doubled in size, about 3½ hours.
8. As the dough nears readiness, preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Care-
fully brush the dough with the egg wash, making sure the egg doesn’t  pool around the edges. Bake until golden, about 35 minutes. Allow to  cool for about 10 minutes in the pan, then transfer to a cooling rack.
This is best the day it is made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days; or frozen, for up to 1 month.DAY ONEDAY TWO108 / huckleberryThis bread is sweet enough that you know you’r e having a pastry but not so sweet that 
you can’t eat an entire loaf without noticing. This would be soooo good in the Monte Cristo (page 239). It would take that salty sweet sandwich to the next level and it makes an amazing French toast. You can also fold toasted sliced almonds in with the blueberries.
One of my happiest moments while writing this book, was taking this bread out of 
the oven on a Sunday afternoon and sitting around our dining room table with a few friends ripping it apart while it was piping hot. Everyone enjoyed it so much that by the time I thought of getting a knife it was all gone—and that is, hands down, the best way to serve it. Don’t slice it, just drop it in the middle of your table and have people rip it apart right from the o ven. Th at’s love.
fresh blueberry brioche
MAKES 1 LOAF
1½ cups/225 g fresh blueberries
2 tbsp whole milk1 tbsp active dry yeast1 cup + 2 tbsp/280 g all-purpose ﬂour1 cup + 2 tbsp/280 g bread ﬂour6½ tbsp/80 g sugar,  
plus more for sprinkling
1 tsp kosher salt3 eggs1 egg yolk½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g unsalted butter, 
very soft
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)DAY ONE
1. Place the fresh blueberries on a plate and freeze in a single layer. Do 
not use frozen blueberries, as they are too watery.
2. Slightly warm the milk and pour into the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted 
with the dough hook attachment. Add the yeast and whisk by hand to combine. Add the all-purpose ﬂour, bread ﬂour, 2½ tbsp of the sugar, the salt, eggs, and egg yolk to the bowl. Mix on low speed until the dough comes together, 1 to 2 minutes.
3. Increase the mixer speed to medium-low and work the dough for  
6 minutes. Pause every minute to push the dough back down into the bowl and off the hook until it pulls off the sides and looks like a strong bread dough. 
4. Reduce the mixer speed to low and slowly add the butter, a little 
at a time, over the course of 2 minutes. After 1 minute, pause to scrape down the bowl and hook. When the butter begins to blend in, increase the mixer speed to medium-high to fully incorporate the butter and bring the dough back together, 5 to 6 minutes longer.
5. Dump the dough onto a lightly ﬂoured work surface and press into 
a 16-by-10-in/40-by-25-cm rectangle. It does not need to be exact. Position the dough vertically, with a short side nearest you; distrib-ute the blueberries and 2 tbsp of the sugar along the top edge and gently roll down, toward you, into a log.
6. Place the log on a greased sheet pan, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate 
for at least 1 hour, or preferably overnight.
CONTINUED110 / huckleberryDAY TWO
7. Grease a 9-by-5-in/23-by-12-cm loaf pan. Reshape the dough one 
last time by pressing it into an approximate 12-by-6-in/30.5-by-15-cm rectangle and cover with the remaining 2 tbsp of sugar. With the dough positioned vertically, roll down toward you, tightly this time.
8. Place into the greased loaf pan, loosely wrap in plastic, and allow to 
rise in a warm place until more than doubled in size, about 3 hours.
9. As the brioche nears readiness, preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. 
Carefully brush the dough with the egg wash, making sure the egg doesn’t pool around the edges. Liberally sprinkle with sugar. Bake until golden, 40 to 45 minutes. Allow to cool for about 15 minutes in the pan. Then transfer to a cooling rack.
This keeps, wrapped well, at room temperature, for up to 3 days, but who are we kidding, it will be lucky to survive 3 minutes out of the oven.breads and other things that rise  / 111Bagels are deﬁnitely one of my comfort foods. I was raised to think that it was not 
a family gathering unless there were bagels and cream cheese. It always makes me laugh to see that Milo is being raised exactly the same way. He can’t walk into his grandmother’s house and not get a bagel slathered in cream cheese shoved into his hands before he can say hello. I hesitated for a long while to make bagels because I know how crazy people can get about them, but once we decided to open our pizze-ria, Milo & Olive, and knowing that pizza can cause more debate than any other food I know, I thought, screw it, I might as well make bagels, too. So I set out to make bagels and pizza the same way I have always baked; I made them the way I liked them, with my whole heart, and never once read a review.
These bagels are great topped with poppy seeds, sesame seeds, ﬂeur de sel, or 
anything else, but make sure the toppings are waiting on a plate beside the water when you boil them. As you take the bagels out of the water, dip them into the top-pings just before they go into the oven. You’ll need to move quickly, so setup is key.
A super-cheesy bagel is another great variation. Just add 1 cup/85 g grated 
Gruyère, ½ cup/30 g grated Parmesan, 1 cup/85 g grated sharp Cheddar, 2 tsp mus-tard powder, ¼ tsp cayenne, and an additional 1 tsp salt when you are mixing your 
bagel dough. I love topping these with grated Cheddar cheese before baking.
Whatever kind of bagel you decide to make, just remember to plan ahead. You 
must make the poolish the day before you want to make bagels. It is key to the bagel’s ﬂavor and texture.
Serve with cream cheese, butter, homemade jam, or your own cured salmon (see 
page 118).
milo & olive bagels
MAKES 12 BAGELS
POOLISH
¾ cup/180 ml cool water
1 cup/140 g bread ﬂour¼ tsp active dry yeast
DOUGH
1 cup + 2 tbsp/270 ml cool water¼ cup/60 ml light beer1¼ tsp active dry yeast3 tbsp honey1 batch poolish (mixed 1 day ahead)4 cups/550 g bread ﬂour¾ cup + 1½ tbsp/100 g whole-wheat ﬂour1 tbsp kosher salt
2 tbsp baking sodaDAY ONE
1. T o make the poolish: In a medium bowl, combine the cool water, 
bread ﬂour, and yeast and stir with a spoon until incorporated. Cover with plastic wrap. Allow to sit at room temperature overnight. In the morning you should ﬁnd it bubbly and almost doubled in volume.
DAY TWO
2. T o make the dough: In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the 
dough hook attachment, whisk the water, beer, and yeast by hand. Add the honey, poolish, bread ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, and salt. Mix on low speed for about 2 minutes, until it comes together in a tight ball. You may need to pause and push the dough down into the bowl while mixing.
3. Increase the mixer speed to medium and work the dough for 3 to 
4 minutes. This is a dry dough, so your mixer might get wobbly. Just hold the mixer down and keep at it.
CONTINUEDbreads and other things that rise  / 113 4. Dump the dough onto a clean work surface and knead a little to form 
a smooth ball. Place in a greased mixing bowl, wrap well with plastic, and allow to rest at room temperature for 1 hour.
 5. Drop the dough onto a clean, unﬂoured surface. Roll it into a log 
12 in/30.5 cm long and cut into twelve even 1-in/2.5-cm pieces. Each will weigh about 4 oz/110 g, but feel free to eyeball the size.
 6. Shape the bagels by working with one dough ball at a time. First ﬂat-
ten into a disc, then lift an edge and press it into the center. Work your way around the circumference, pressing every edge to the center until you have a ball.
 7. Flip the ball over so the pleated side is down and the smooth side is 
up. Cup the dough in your palm and massage the seam side of the dough ﬁrmly against the work surface in a circular motion, allowing the friction to seal the seams. Set aside and cover with plastic wrap or a slightly damp kitchen towel while you shape the rest.
 8. Next make the holes by puncturing the centers of the dough balls 
with your ﬁnger and gently expanding the hole until it’s about ¾ in/ 2 cm wide.
 9. Place the bagels onto two well-greased sheet pans, cover with plas-
tic wrap, and let rise in a warm place until soft, sticky, and slightly puffed, 1 to 1½ hours. (Or, if you would like to make them the next day, allow them to rise for just 20 minutes, refrigerate overnight, and allow to rise the rest of the way in the morning, 1 to 1½ hours.)
 10. When you’re ready to cook, bring 4 qt/3.8 L water and the baking 
soda to a boil. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C and grease a sheet pan.
 11. Gently lift each bagel off the sheet pan with two hands and lower 
carefully into the boiling water in batches of three or four. Boil, covered, for 2 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, ﬂip and boil, covered, for 2 minutes longer. Be sure your bagels are ﬂoating. If your bagel sinks and remains at the bottom of the pot for longer than 45 sec-onds, it hasn’t risen enough. Allow the bagels to continue to rise at room temperature, then try again later.
 12. Once boiled, place the bagels on the prepared pan and imme di-
ately bake until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Then  transfer to a cooling rack.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, up to 3 days; or frozen, for up to 1 month.114 / huckleberryRaisins give these bagels a rustic, homemade look. If you like your bagels a little bit 
sweeter, after boiling but before baking, dust the tops with cinnamon-sugar using  1 cup/200 g sugar and 2 tsp ground cinnamon. For blueberry bagels, omit the cinna-mon and substitute dried blueberries for the raisins.
Remember to plan ahead when making bagels. You must make the poolish the day 
before you want to make bagels. It is key to the bagel’s ﬂavor and texture.
Serve with cream cheese and butter!
cinnamon raisin bagels
MAKES 12 BAGELS
POOLISH
¾ cup/180 ml cool water
1 cup/140 g bread ﬂour¼ tsp active dry yeast
DOUGH
1½ cups/240 g raisins1 cup + 6 tbsp/330 ml cool water1¼ tsp active dry yeast6 tbsp/130 g honey1 batch poolish (mixed 1 day ahead)4 cups/550 g bread ﬂour¾ cup + 1½ tbsp/100 g whole-wheat ﬂour1 tbsp cinnamon1 tbsp kosher salt
1 tbsp baking sodaDAY ONE
1. T o make the poolish: In a medium bowl, combine the cool water, 
bread ﬂour, and yeast and stir with a spoon until incorporated. Cover with plastic wrap. Allow to sit at room temperature overnight. In the morning you should ﬁnd it bubbly and almost doubled in volume.
DAY TWO
2. Plump the raisins in 3 cups/720 ml warm water for 10 minutes, then 
strain and ﬁnely chop.
3. T o make the dough: In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the 
dough hook attachment, whisk the cool water and yeast by hand. Add the honey, poolish, bread ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, cinnamon, and salt. Mix on low speed for about 2 minutes, until it comes together in a tight ball. You may need to pause and push the dough down into the bowl while mixing.
4. Increase the mixer speed to medium and work the dough for 3 to  
4 minutes. This is a dry dough, so your mixer might get shaky. Just hold the mixer down and keep at it. At the last minute, add the  raisins to the dough and mix until they are distributed.
5. Dump the dough onto a clean work surface and knead a little to 
form a smooth ball. Place in a greased mixing bowl, wrap well with plastic, and allow to rest at room temperature for 1 hour.
6. Drop the dough onto a clean, unﬂoured surface. Roll it into a log  
12 in/30.5 cm long and cut into twelve even 1-in/2.5-cm pieces. Each will weigh about 4 oz/110 g, but feel free to eyeball the size.
7. Shape the bagels by working with one dough ball at a time. First 
ﬂatten into a disc, then lift an edge and press it into the center. Work your way around the circumference, pressing every edge to the center until you have a ball.breads and other things that rise  / 115 8. Flip the ball over so the pleated side is down and the smooth side is 
up. Cup the dough in your palm and massage the seam side of the dough ﬁrmly against the work surface in a circular motion, allowing the friction to seal the seams. Set aside and cover with plastic wrap or a slightly damp kitchen towel while you shape the rest. 
 9. Next make the holes by puncturing the centers of the dough balls 
with your ﬁnger and gently expanding the hole until it’s about ¾ in/2 cm wide.
 10. Place the bagels onto two well-greased sheet pans, cover with plas-
tic wrap, and let rise in a warm place until soft, sticky, and slightly puffed, 1 to 1½ hours. (Or, if you would like to make them the next day, allow them to rise for just 20 minutes, refrigerate overnight, and allow to rise the rest of the way in the morning.)
 11. When you’re ready to cook, bring 4 qt/3.5 L water and the baking soda  
to a boil. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C and grease a sheet pan.
 12. Gently lift each bagel off the sheet pan with two hands and lower 
carefully into the boiling water in batches of three or four. Boil, covered, for 2 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, ﬂip and boil, covered, for 2 minutes longer. Be sure your bagels are ﬂoating. If your bagel sinks and remains at the bottom of the pot for longer than 45 sec-onds, it hasn’t risen enough. Allow the bagels to continue to rise at room temperature, then try again later.
 13. Once boiled, place the bagels on the prepared pan and immedi-
ately   bake until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Then tr ansfer to 
a cooling rack.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days; or frozen, for up to 1 month.116 / huckleberryI am a sucker for all things multigrain. So it’s a given that these are the bagels that I 
make at home if I’m going to take the time to make bagels. The honey in this recipe is the perfect balance to all the grains. I occasionally like to dip these in caraway seeds and sprinkle them with ﬂeur de sel after boiling, just before I bake them. The caraway tastes delicious and works really well with the rest of the ingredients.
Remember to always plan ahead when making bagels. You must make the poolish 
the day before you want to make bagels. It is key to the bagel’s ﬂavor and texture.Serve with cream cheese, butter, homemade jam, or your own cured salmon (see page 118).
honey multigrain bagels
MAKES 12 BAGELS
POOLISH
¾ cup/180 ml cool water
¾ cup/100 g bread ﬂour¼ cup/25 g rye ﬂour¼ tsp active dry yeast
DOUGH
1¼ cups/300 ml cool water1 tsp active dry yeast6 tbsp/130 g honey1 batch poolish (mixed 1 day ahead)2⅓ cups/320 g bread ﬂour¾ cup/75 g rye ﬂour1¼ cups/150 g whole-wheat ﬂour¾ cup/120 g cornmeal¼ cup/50 g wheat germ, toasted1 tbsp + 1 tsp kosher salt2½ tbsp ﬂax seeds3 tbsp chia seeds or poppy seeds
2 tbsp baking sodaDAY ONE
1. T o make the poolish: In a medium bowl, combine the cool water, 
bread ﬂour, rye ﬂour, and yeast and stir with a spoon until incor-porated. Cover with plastic wrap. Allow to sit at room temperature overnight. In the morning you should ﬁnd it bubbly and almost doubled in volume.
DAY TWO
2. T o make the dough: In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the 
dough hook attachment, whisk the cool water and yeast by hand. Add the honey, poolish, bread ﬂour, rye ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, cornmeal, wheat germ, salt, ﬂax seeds, and chia seeds. Mix on low speed for about 2 minutes, until it comes together in a tight ball. You may need to pause and push the dough down into the bowl while mixing. 
3. Increase the mixer speed to medium and work the dough for 3 to 
4 minutes. This is a dry dough, so your mixer might get a little shaky. Just hold the mixer down and keep at it.
4. Dump the dough onto a clean work surface and knead a little to 
form a smooth ball. Place in a greased mixing bowl, wrap well with plastic, and allow to rest at room temperature for 1 hour.
5. Drop the dough onto a clean, unﬂoured surface. Roll it into a log 
12 in/30.5 cm long and cut into twelve even 1-in/2.5-cm pieces. Each will weigh about 4 oz/110 g, but feel free to eyeball the size.breads and other things that rise  / 117 6. Shape the bagels by working with one dough ball at a time. First ﬂat-
ten into a disc, then lift an edge and press it into the center. Work your way around the circumference, pressing every edge to the center until you have a ball. 
 7. Flip the ball over so the pleated side is down and the smooth side is 
up. Cup the dough in your palm and massage the seam side of the dough ﬁrmly against the work surface in a circular motion, allowing the friction to seal the seams. Set aside and cover with plastic wrap or a slightly damp kitchen towel while you shape the rest.
 8. Next make the holes by puncturing the centers of the dough balls 
with your ﬁnger and gently expanding the hole until it’s about  ¾ in/2 cm wide.
 9. Place the bagels onto two well-greased sheet pans, cover with plas-
tic wrap, and let rise in a warm place until soft, sticky, and slightly puffed, 1 to 1½ hours. (Or, if you would like to make them the next day, allow them to rise for just 20 minutes, refrigerate overnight, and allow to rise the rest of the way in the morning, 1 to 2½ hours.)
 10. When ready to cook, bring 4 qt/3.5 L water and the baking soda to 
a boil. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C and grease a sheet pan.
 11. Gently lift each bagel off the sheet pan with two hands and lower 
carefully into boiling water in batches of three or four. Boil, cov-ered, for 2 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, ﬂip and boil, covered, for 2 minutes longer. Be sure your bagels are ﬂoating. If your bagel sinks and remains at the bottom of the pot for longer than 45 sec-onds, it hasn’t risen enough. Allow the bagels to continue to rise at room temperature, then try again later.
 12. Once boiled, place the bagels on the prepared pan and immedi-
ately bake until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Then transfer to a cooling rack.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, up to 3 days; or frozen, for up to 1 month.118 / huckleberryThis is all about simplicity, so you must use the best salmon and serve it with the most 
delicious tomatoes, a great ﬁnishing salt, and anything else that is fresh and wonderful at your farmers’ market, such as thinly sliced radishes or fennel. And of course the very best bagels. If you’re going to cure your own salmon, you may as well make your own 
bagels, too. Just call in sick Friday and do it.
This is another recipe that has a lot of room for play. You can change up the zest 
(just don’t omit) and the spices or herbs, but be sure to keep the salt and sugar the same.
cured salmon platter
SERVES 8 TO 10
Zest of 1 lemon
Zest of 1 orangeZest of 1 lime1 tbsp fennel seeds1 tbsp coriander seeds2 tbsp whole black peppercorns1 cup/230 g kosher salt6 tbsp/75 g sugar1 tbsp chopped fresh dill2 lb/1 kg best-quality fresh salmon,  
not frozen or previously frozen
FIXIN’S
4 ripe tomatoes, sliced
1 cucumber, thinly sliced1 red onion, thinly sliced, or 1 cup 
pickled red onion
⅓ cup/50 g capers in brine, drained4 lemons, quartered2 cups/450 g cream cheese¼ cup/15 g tarragon and/or parsley
Bagels or toast for serving1. T oss together by hand the lemon, orange, and lime zests; fennel 
seeds; coriander seeds; peppercorns; salt; sugar; and dill.
2. Spread out a 24-in/61-cm sheet of plastic wrap. Place half of the cure 
in the center and shape it into an even bed, about the size of the salmon. Lay the salmon on top of the cure and spread the remaining cure on top, coating the sides well. Wrap the salmon tightly in the plastic and wrap again with two more sheets of plastic. You do not want any leakage.
3. Transfer the salmon to a plate. Place another plate on top and weigh 
it down with a few cans of beer or cans of tomatoes. It’s important to weigh it down evenly. Allow it to cure, refrigerated, for 48 hours.
4. Once cured, the salmon should be much ﬁrmer and darker in color. 
Discard the plastic and wash the salmon thoroughly to remove the salt. Pat dry. Refrigerate, tightly wrapped, until serving.
5. T o serve, slice as thinly as humanly possible on an angle, perpendic-
ular to the grain. Arrange the sliced salmon on a plate. Create another  plate with generous piles of all your ﬁxin’s, and serve with bagels.
This keeps well, tightly wrapped, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.6 A.M.
flaky dough 
and its many 
usesThe savory cooks enter the kitchen and now the 
battle for space begins. Norberto, a wonderful cook, father, and all-around human being who’s been with me since the day we opened, comes in and his normally calm demeanor is rattled because someone has moved his pans—and boy does he hate it when anything is not in the place he left it. Ismael walks in next with his signature Dodgers hat and immediately begins asking the girls about when he can get his sheet pans of bacon in the oven so that he can be ready for service right at 8 a.m. Selvin, our killer dish-washer, is clearing the monster crash pit of dishes that have been left for him all the while checking in orders from our vendors, and I’m in the middle trying to time the bake-off while also trying to get everyone to work together and not kill one another before we even open.
This is our prime time, opening will be here before 
we know it, and we’re beginning to move frantically when we hear a pounding at the front door. I ask Sel-vin, in my broken kitchen Spanish, to take the deliv-ery, but it’s not one of our regular vendors, it’s P .Y. Pudwill of Pudwill Berry Farms in Nipomo, and she’s irritated because I asked her to specially deliver her berries to our door on the way to the Santa Monica Farmers’ Market and now she’s been standing outside on her busy morning waiting for someone to answer.“Sorry, P .Y.,” I say as I run up to give her a hug and she 
gives me that half-smirking frown of hers. “The music was so loud, and we’re running around . . .”
I yell to Laurel to pull some mixed berry crostatas out 
of the oven and put them in a box for P .Y. so she can see where her amazing berries are going, and hope-fully she’ll deliver again next week. P .Y. and two of her guys lug in ﬁfteen ﬂats and she looks over at me and says, “Ugh, so you need the same on Wednesday?” I smile, “Thank you, I’m so sorry. I promise next time I will turn the music down and hear you!” Next week the music will be loud again because that’s what keeps us up and P .Y. will be annoyed, but she’ll keep delivering because she knows how much I love her and her berries and she can see that they are ending up in the right place.
We give P .Y. and her team the box of warm crostatas 
and she gives me a big smile and a maternal squeeze. I bring in the berries and Laurel shows me a couple of crostatas that lost their shape while baking. We smile at each other and she pulls the misshapen ones aside and puts them on a plate. Breakfast for me and my girls after we get everything baked off and the front set up.122 / huckleberryWe use this incredibly versatile dough at Huckleberry for an insane number of differ-
ent things. It’s that versatile. We use it for our Thanksgiving pies, crostatas, quiches, chicken potpies, anything really.
When you settle in to make ﬂaky dough, just commit to making three batches. 
You’ll get into a rhythm and your food processor is going to get dirty anyway. All the recipes in this chapter are a cinch if you have the dough ready, and this batch of dough ﬁts all the recipes in this book. It will keep in your freezer for up to 1 month. Just be sure to double-wrap tightly in plastic.
You can absolutely make this dough by hand, but it’s a bit faster in a food proces-
sor. You’ll ﬁnd that our dough has less water and more butter than most. Big surprise. It may feel as though it’s not nearly enough water, but don’t add more; with faith, a little patience, and some elbow grease it will come together.
everyday flaky dough
MAKES 1 BATCH
2 cups/250 g all-purpose ﬂour
¼ cup/50 g sugar½ tsp baking powder¾ tsp kosher salt1 cup/220 g cold unsalted butter,  
cubed
¼ cup/60 ml water1. T o mix with a food processor, pulse the ﬂour, sugar, baking powder,  
and salt once to blend. Add the butter to the work bowl and pulse about three times until pea-size pieces form. Pour the water over the ﬂour mixture and pulse another three times until the dough is only just starting to come together.
 T o mix by hand, combine the ﬂour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in 
a very large bowl. Stir to blend. Add the butter, working it between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the water and lightly toss to distribute.
2. The dough should be shaggy, dry, and clumpy. Dump it onto a clean 
work surface to bring the dough together by hand. (Do not ﬂour the counter, as you do not want to add any more ﬂour to the dough.)
3. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing the entire surface of the dough with the 
heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet  and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until the dough be gins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the 
dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through.
4. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick, wrap tightly in plastic, 
and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or freeze for up to 1 month.
5. When you’re ready to use the dough, if refrigerated for longer 
than 1 hour, allow the dough to warm up at room temperature for a few minutes. If frozen, thaw in the refrigerator overnight before shaping. The dough should feel cold to the touch but malleable. Never allow the dough to become too soft or warm. Chill as needed while working.124 / huckleberryIf you ﬁnd yourself with oozingly sweet, overripe fruit on your countertop, make some-
thing with this dough. The earthy, whole-wheat ﬂour will balance the sweetness of the fruit. If you want to experiment with different ﬂours, try a little rye, buckwheat, or oat ﬂour for all or a portion of the whole-wheat ﬂour.
whole-wheat flaky dough
MAKES 1 BATCH
1 cup/130 g whole-wheat ﬂour
¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour2 tbsp + 2 tsp sugar1 tsp baking powder1 tsp kosher salt1 tsp brown sugar1 cup/220 g cold unsalted butter,  
cubed
¼ cup/60 ml ice water1. T o mix with a food processor, pulse the whole-wheat ﬂour, all- 
purpose ﬂour, sugar, baking powder, salt, and brown sugar once to blend. Add the butter to the work bowl and pulse about three times until pea-size pieces form. Pour the water over the ﬂour mixture and pulse another three times until the dough is only just starting to come together.
 T o mix by hand, combine the whole-wheat ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, 
sugar, baking powder, salt, and brown sugar in a very large bowl. Stir to blend. Add the butter, working it between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the water and lightly toss to distribute.
2. The dough should be shaggy, dry, and clumpy. Dump it onto a clean 
work surface to bring the dough together by hand. (Do not ﬂour the counter, as you do not want to add any more ﬂour to the dough.)
3. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing the entire surface of the dough with the 
heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet  and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until the dough begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick, wrap tightly in plastic, 
and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or freeze for up to 1 month.
5. When you’re ready to use the dough, if refrigerated for longer than 
1 hour, allow the dough to warm up at room temperature for a few minutes. If frozen, thaw in the refrigerator overnight before shaping. The dough should feel cold to the touch but malleable. Never allow the dough to become too soft or warm. Chill as needed while working.flaky dough and its many uses  / 125This is a recipe you should play with. Throw a bunch of ﬁnely chopped herbs into it, 
switch up the cheeses, or add chile ﬂakes, cayenne, or black pepper. But whatever you do, don’t skimp on the fatty cheesiness.
This dough works well for any savory thing, from crostatas to quiches, or it might 
even be awesome for an apple pie. If you have leftover dough, you can make delicious little cocktail crackers. Just cut with a small cookie cutter, brush with Egg Wash (page 74), and sprinkle with additional cheese, ﬂeur de sel, and black pepper and bake at 350°F/180°C until golden.
savory flaky dough
MAKES 1 BATCH
1½ cups/200 g all-purpose ﬂour
⅓ cup/35 g rye ﬂour¼ cup/30 g whole-wheat ﬂour3 tbsp sugar1 tbsp cornmeal1 tsp baking powder1 tsp kosher salt2 tbsp grated Parmesan2 tbsp grated Gruyère1 cup/220 g cold unsalted butter,  
cubed
2 tbsp crème fraîche¼ cup/60 ml ice water1. T o mix with a food processor, pulse the all-purpose ﬂour, rye ﬂour, 
whole-wheat ﬂour, sugar, cornmeal, baking powder, salt, Parmesan, and Gruyère once to blend. Add the butter and crème fraîche to the work bowl and pulse about three times until pea-size pieces form. Pour the water over the ﬂour mixture and pulse another three times until the dough is only just starting to come together.
 T o mix by hand, combine the all-purpose ﬂour, rye ﬂour, whole-
wheat ﬂour, sugar, cornmeal, baking powder, salt, Parmesan, and Gruyère in a very large bowl. Stir to blend. Add the butter and crème fraîche, working it between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the water and lightly toss to distribute.
2. The dough should be shaggy, dry, and clumpy. Dump it onto a clean 
work surface to bring the dough together by hand. (Do not ﬂour the counter, as you do not want to add any more ﬂour to the dough.) 
3. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing the entire surface of the dough with the heel  
of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet and  dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until it begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick, wrap tightly in plastic, 
and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or freeze for up to 1 month.
5. When you’re ready to use the dough, if refrigerated for longer than 
1 hour, allow the dough to warm up at room temperature for a few minutes. If frozen, thaw in the refrigerator overnight before shaping. The dough should feel cold to the touch but malleable. Never allow the dough to become too soft or warm. Chill as needed while working.126 / huckleberryThis quiche is the quintessential summer brunch food. The rich corn ﬁlling tastes 
almost like creamed corn, and the colors are beautiful together. Be sure to let the  spinach and tomatoes poke up through the ﬁlling to give it height and excitement. 
This would be delicious served with a large salad and some thinly sliced salami 
or roasted sausages
corn, spinach, and  
cherry tomato quiche
SERVES 8 TO 10
1 batch Everyday Flaky Dough (page 122)
4 tbsp/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil 
1¼ cups/190 g fresh corn kernels 
(from 2 cobs) 
4 sprigs fresh thyme1½ tsp kosher salt1 garlic clove2 cups/360 g whole cherry tomatoes 1 pinch chile flakes3 large eggs¾ cup + 2 tbsp/210 ml crème fraiche ¾ cup + 2 tbsp/210 ml heavy cream ¾ tsp freshly ground black pepper½ cup/15 g spinach leaves 2 to 3 tbsp grated Gruyere or Parmesan1. Allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 10 to 
20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable. 
2. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll out the dough to a 15-in/38-cm 
square.Gently transfer the dough to a greased tart pan, allowing the edges to drape over the sides. Gently press the dough into the pan without stretching it. Get it into the bottom corners, against the sides, and into every crevice. Then, trim any excess dough by raking it off with the back of a butter knife. Gently press your ﬁngertips into the sides of the pan in order to push the dough slightly above the pan’s edges by about ¼ in/6 mm. (This will make up for the inevita-ble shrinking when the shell bakes.) 
3. Freeze for at least 1 hour, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C.5. Line the inside of the frozen shell with parchment paper and ﬁll with 
pie weights. Bake from frozen for about 35 minutes, until the outer rim is starting to brown. Then, carefully remove the parchment and pie weights, return the shell to the oven, and continue baking until the whole shell is a nicely browned, 15 to 20 minutes longer. Let it get a little darker than you think it should!
6. Meanwhile, heat 2 tbsp of the olive oil in a medium sauté pan over 
medium-high heat. Add the corn, 2 sprigs thyme, and ¼ tsp salt and sauté for 1 to 2 minutes. Remove the thyme stems, transfer the mixture to a plate, and set aside. 
7. In the same pan, add the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil, then sauté the 
garlic for about 1 minute, until it is very aromatic. Add the cherry tomatoes, remaining sprigs of thyme, ½ tsp salt, and the chile ﬂakes. Raise the heat to high and cook, covered, for 3 minutes, until the tomatoes burst. Remove the lid and continue cooking to thicken for another 3 to 4 minutes. Don’t stir too often because you don’t want the tomatoes to break down into a sauce. Remove the thyme, transfer the tomatoes to a plate, and set aside. flaky dough and its many uses  / 127 8. When your shell has ﬁnished baking, increase the oven temperature 
to 450°F/230°C.
 9. Whisk the eggs, crème fraiche, cream, remaining ¾ tsp salt, and the 
pepper together in a medium bowl. 
 10. Sprinkle the cooked corn evenly all over the bottom of the cooked 
shell (still in its pan). T op with the cooked tomatoes, then the raw spinach. Re-whisk the egg mixture to make sure it hasn’t settled and pour it over the top. Do not allow it to spill over the edges. T op with the grated Gruyère. Allow some of the vegetables to poke out the top for a beautiful, rustic appearance.
 11. Bake for about 25 minutes, or until still soft, yet set and golden 
brown. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.flaky dough and its many uses  / 129These are beautifully simple ripe summer peaches on squares of whole-wheat ﬂaky 
dough. They’re wonderful to throw together if you’re tight on time. Great for breakfast with Whipped Cream (page 149) or for dessert hot out of the oven with vanilla ice cream. Apricots work just as well as peaches if you prefer. Another twist is to top these with a whole-wheat oat crumble (see page 152) before they go into the oven.
peach squares
MAKES 10 TO 12 SQUARES
1 batch Whole-Wheat Flaky Dough  
(page 124)
5 or 6 ripe peaches, halved, skin on¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar, plus more 
for sprinkling
¼ cup/55 g brown sugar6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter, melted¼ tsp kosher salt1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)1. Allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 10 to  
20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
2. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 14-in/35.5-cm 
square, and about an even ⅛ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them even and slice nine 4-in/ 10-cm squares (that’s three 
squares down and three across). Transfer them, evenly spaced, to two greased sheet pans. Press any scraps together and re-roll. You should get at least one more square. If you’re feeling espe-cially efﬁcient, you might get another three.
3. In a bowl, toss the halved peaches, granulated sugar, brown sugar, 
melted butter, and salt until well coated.
4. Brush each square with egg wash and place a peach half, cut-side 
up, on each square. Sprinkle any exposed dough with a little granu-lated sugar and freeze for 25 minutes.
5. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Bake from frozen until a deep 
golden brown, about 35 minutes. Don’t be afraid of good color. Trust us: Deep golden brown is what you want! Transfer to a cooling rack to keep crisp.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature for up to 2 days.130 / huckleberryThis is the closest we come to making a toaster pastry at Huckleberry, but don’t try 
to drop these in a toaster. The dough is super-ﬂaky and it will shatter. You can always add more or less cinnamon or a whole mess of pie spices to the ﬁlling if you’re in that 
sort of a mood.
apple cinnamon hand pies
SERVES 10 TO 12
1 batch Whole-Wheat Flaky Dough  
(page 124)
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)1 batch Vanilla Apple Butter (page 132) 
with 1 cinnamon stick added during cooking; cooled completely
⅓ cup/65 g sugar1 tsp ground cinnamon1. Allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 10 to  
20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
2. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 14-in/35.5-cm square, 
and about an even ⅛ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them even and slice nine 4-in/10-cm squares (that’s three squares down and three across). Transfer them, evenly spaced, to two greased sheet pans. Press any scraps together and re-roll. You should get at least one more square. If you’re feeling especially efﬁcient, you might get another three.
3. Brush the squares with egg wash and spoon 3 tbsp apple butter, two-
thirds of the way down the center of each square. Fold the dough in half over the ﬁlling. Lightly press a fork into the edges to seal, but do not puncture the dough. A little apple butter might ooze out, but that’s okay. With a very sharp knife, slice a ½-in/12-mm X into the top 
of each square. Be sure to cut all the way through the top layer, but not through the bottom. Freeze completely for about 1 hour, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped. 
4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Stir together the sugar and cinna-
mon in a small bowl. Brush each pie with egg wash and sprinkle liber-ally with cinnamon-sugar. Bake from frozen for 35 to 40 min utes, or until deeply browned. Transfer to a cooling rack to keep crisp.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.132 / huckleberryThis is a great base recipe that can be adapted in many ways. Try swapping out a cinna-
mon stick for the vanilla, or add ½ tsp ground cinnamon, ¼ tsp ginger, ¼ tsp nutmeg, and ¼ tsp cloves. It also works well with pears or peeled quince in place of the apples.
vanilla apple butter
MAKES 11⁄2 CUPS/480 G
8 apples, anything but Fuji
2 cups/480 ml water6 tbsp/75 g sugar½ tsp kosher salt1 vanilla beanJuice of 1 lemon1. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Peel, core, and cut the apples 
into eighths.
2. Combine the apples, water, sugar, salt, vanilla bean, and lemon juice 
in an ovenproof sauté pan and cook over medium-high heat, cov-ered, until the apples are very soft, about 15 minutes.
3. Transfer the apple mixture to a food processor or a blender and 
process until very smooth. Pour the mixture back into the same pan and bake, stirring every 10 minutes or so to prevent the bottom from burning, until it browns and thickens, about 1 hour. Refrigerate until needed. 
Keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.flaky dough and its many uses  / 133We recently made these galettes in front of a small audience at our local farmers’ 
market. A few weeks later, a tiny elderly woman approached us in the bakery with a berry-stained copy of the recipe in hand. She peppered us with questions about the process and told us all about the way hers turned out at home. The very last thing she asked us was where to buy mini strawberries. Which made us giggle for days. Just to be clear, the galettes are mini, not the berries.
If for some reason your berries are not as sweet as you would like, you can always 
add a bit more sugar. Color is important here; these galettes are so simple that the color becomes an ingredient. Bake until the dough is a deep brown and the ﬂavor will really pop.
mini strawberry galettes
SERVES 10 TO 12
1 batch Everyday Flaky Dough  
(page 122)
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter3 cups/460 g halved strawberries2 tbsp brown sugar2 tbsp granulated sugar, plus more 
for sprinkling
¼ tsp kosher salt1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Powdered sugar for dusting (optional)1. Allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 10 to  
20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
2. Melt the butter and toss with the strawberries. Set aside.3. In a separate bowl combine the brown sugar, granulated sugar, and 
salt. Set aside.
4. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 14-in/35.5-cm 
square, and about an even ⅛ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them e ven and slice into nine 4-in/10-cm squares (that’ s three 
squares down and three  across). Transfer them, evenly spaced, 
to two greased sheet pans. Press any scraps together and re-roll. You should get at least one more square. If you’re feeling espe-cially efﬁcient, you might get another three.
5. T oss the sugar mixture with the strawberry mixture. Evenly pile 
the strawberry ﬁlling into the center of each square, leaving a 1-in/2.5-cm border all around. Lightly brush the border with egg wash. Fold the border over the ﬁlling like a picture frame. Press the corners to seal. Freeze for at least 20 minutes, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
6. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. When ready to bake, brush the 
crust with egg wash, sprinkle with sugar, and bake from frozen until deep  golden brown, 30 to 35 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack to 
keep crisp. Dust with powdered sugar if you’re so moved.
These are best the day they’re made but keep, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.flaky dough and its many uses  / 137This tart is also really delicious with blood oranges, Meyer lemon, or any citrus you 
ﬁnd at your farmers’ market. When I’m not in the mood for grapefruit, I particularly like it with Cara Cara oranges, because they have the sweetness of an orange and the wonder ful acidity of a grapefruit. If you have a nut allergy, feel free to omit the almonds; they are totally not necessary, but their crispy fattiness cuts through the sweet-and-sourness of the tart beautifully.
grapefruit galette
SERVES 8 TO 10
6 grapefruits
1 batch Everyday Flaky Dough  
(page 122)
1 batch Pastry Cream (page 148)5 tbsp/75 g sugar1 pinch kosher salt1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)2 tbsp sliced almonds, toasted 
(optional)1. First, segment the grapefruits with a paring knife. Trim the skin and 
pith away from the fruit inside by cutting off the top and bottom until the fruit is exposed. Then follow the curve of the fruit, shaving off all the white pith, leaving just the fruit behind. Now, carefully hold the fruit in your palm and cut along the natural lines between the segments to remove the membrane from the ﬂesh. Set the segments aside.
2. Meanwhile, allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature 
for 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
3. Grease a sheet pan. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 
13-by-15 in/33-by-38 cm rectangle, about an even ⅓ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them even and transfer to the prepared pan.
4. Spread the pastry cream on the dough, leaving a 3-in/7.5-cm border. 
Arrange the grapefruit over the pastry cream in even rows of slightly overlapping slices. Sprinkle the fruit with 3 tbsp of the sugar and the salt.
5. Brush the exposed dough with egg wash and fold it over the ﬁlling, 
pressing the corners to seal. The dough should only partially cover the ﬁlling and you should have a nice rectangular galette. Brush the crust with egg wash and sprinkle with the remaining 2 tbsp sugar. Freeze for 25 minutes, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped.
6. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Bake from frozen until the crust is 
very, very dark brown and the grapefruit is beginning to burn slightly in a few spots, about 1 hour. Allow to cool on the sheet pan. Sprinkle with the almonds, if desired, and transfer to a serving platter or slice and serve right from the pan at room temperature.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, refrigerated,  for up to 2 days.138 / huckleberryThis is one of my favorite things in this chapter because I love the subtle sweet ﬂavor 
of poached quince mixed with the sour saltiness of the goat cheese. It’s one of those perfect sweet and savory pastries. 
Consider saving the quince poaching liquid for a red wine punch: Mix with a very 
light but fruity red wine like a Bourgogne Rouge, add orange slices and 6 cinnamon sticks, then refrigerate for 3 hours. Serve by topping each glass with a little Prosecco. Or you can always mix little spoonfuls of poaching liquid into plain yogurt or your 
afternoon tea. It’s also amazing used as a glaze on mufﬁns and cakes.
quince and goat cheese galette
SERVES 8
10 cups/2.4 L water
4 cups/800 g sugar, plus more  
for sprinkling
1 vanilla bean, split and scraped1 pinch salt4 quince, peeled1 batch Everyday Flaky Dough  
(page 122)
1 cup/220 g goat cheese2 tbsp crème fraîche1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)2 tbsp unsalted butter1. Bring the water, sugar, vanilla bean, and salt to a simmer in a pot over 
high heat, whisking until the sugar dissolves. Reduce the heat to low, add the quince, cover, and simmer until the quince are fork-tender but not falling apart, about 50 minutes. Refrigerate until cooled completely.
2. Meanwhile, allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature 
for 10 to 20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
3. In a small bowl, stir together the goat cheese and crème fraîche. 
Set aside.
4. Core and slice the quince into slices ¼ in/6 mm thick. Set aside. 
Reserve the poaching liquid.
5. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 13-by-15 in/ 
33-by-38 cm rectangle about an even ⅛ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them even and transfer to a baking sheet.
6. Spread the goat cheese mixture in the center of the dough, leaving 
a 3-in/7.5-cm border all around the edge.
7. With a paper towel, lightly dry the quince and position the quince 
over the goat cheese mixture in even rows of overlapping slices. Brush the exposed dough with egg wash and fold it over the  ﬁlling, pressing the corners to seal. The dough should only partially cover the ﬁlling and you should have a nice rectangular galette. Brush the top of the dough with egg wash and sprinkle with sugar. Dot the exposed quince with the butter. Freeze for 25 minutes, or up to 1 month, tightly wrapped. 
8. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Bake from frozen for about 1 hour, 
or until deep golden brown. Don’t be afraid of good color. Trust us. Immediately brush the dough and the exposed fruit with the quince poaching liquid. Allow to cool on the sheet pan before transferring to a serving platter. Serve at room temperature.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 1 day.flaky dough and its many uses  / 141I think there is nothing more satisfying and beautiful than a savory galette. It’s deli-
cious with a sunny-side-up egg on the side, it’s good with sausage instead of bacon, and it’s great with sautéed fresh corn inside during the summer months.
Be sure to bake this to a very deep, dark brown, which allows the crust and ﬁlling 
to become incredibly caramelized and ﬂavorful.
onion, potato, and bacon galette
SERVES 8
6 slices thick-cut bacon
3 cups/455 g medium diced ﬁngerling 
potatoes
6 tbsp/90 ml extra-virgin olive oil1 tsp chopped fresh rosemary2½ tsp kosher salt4 yellow onions, sliced1 tsp chopped fresh thyme1 bay leaf¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper1 batch Savory Flaky Dough (page 125)¼ cup/60 ml crème fraîche1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)Sugar for sprinklingFleur de sel for sprinkling2 to 3 tbsp grated Parmesan or Gruyère 1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
 2. Spread the bacon on a sheet pan and roast for 10 minutes. When 
cooled, chop the bacon and set aside in a medium bowl.
 3. T oss the potatoes with 4 tbsp/60 ml of the olive oil, the rosemary, 
and 2 tsp of the salt. Spread out on a sheet pan and roast until browned, about 35 minutes.
 4. Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan, combine the onions, thyme, bay 
leaf, the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil, the remaining ½ tsp salt, and the  black pepper and cook over medium-high heat for about 10 minutes  or until the onions are very deeply browned but not mushy. Stir often  to avoid burning.
 5. Combine the sautéed onions and chopped bacon with the potatoes. 
T oss together and refrigerate until cooled completely.
 6. Meanwhile, allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 
10 to 20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable. 
 7. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 13-by-15 in/ 
33-by-38 cm rectangle, about an even ⅛ in/3 mm thick. Trim the edges to make them even and transfer to a greased sheet pan.
 8. Spread the crème fraîche on the dough, leaving a 2½-in/6-cm 
border around the edge. Evenly distribute the bacon, potato, and onion mixture on top of the crème fraîche. Brush the exposed 2½-in/6-cm border of dough with egg wash and fold it over the ﬁlling, pressing to seal the corners.
 9. Now brush the top of the dough with egg wash and sprinkle with  
a little sugar and a little ﬂeur de sel. Then sprinkle the entire pastry with the grated Parmesan. Freeze for at least 20 minutes, or up to  1 month, tightly wrapped.
 10. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C. Bake from frozen until the crust 
and cheese are golden brown, about 45 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator , for up to 1 day.142 / huckleberryDon’t be jealous, but in California we have good cherry tomatoes until just before 
Thanksgiving. There’s a sweet spot around late September when summery produce, like tomatoes, and fall produce, like leeks, overlap. And during this time I love  making this crostata. It’s a wonderful combination of salty-sweet. Just be sure to cook the  ﬁlling down so it’s nice and thick and not a big watery mess, which will cause the  crostata to fall apart.
tomato leek cornmeal crostata
SERVES 8
CRUST
1½ cups/200 g all-purpose ﬂour
½ cup/80 g cornmeal¼ cup/100 g sugar½ tsp baking powder¾ tsp kosher salt1 cup/220 g cold unsalted butter,  
cubed
¼ cup/60 ml ice water
FILLING
4 tbsp/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil2 cups/455 g large chopped leeks,  
white and green parts only
1 bay leaf1 tsp kosher salt1 pinch freshly ground black pepper1 garlic clove4 cups/720 g cherry tomatoes2 or 3 sprigs fresh thyme1 pinch chile ﬂakes
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)
Fleur de sel for sprinkling1. T o make the crust: T o mix with a food processor, pulse the ﬂour, 
cornmeal, sugar, baking powder, and salt once to blend. Add the  butter to the work bowl and pulse about three times until pea-size pieces form. Pour the water over the ﬂour mixture and pulse another three times until the dough is only just starting to come together.
 T o mix by hand, combine the ﬂour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder, 
and salt in a very large bowl. Stir to blend. Add the butter, working it between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the water and lightly toss to distribute.
2. The dough should be shaggy, dry, and clumpy. Dump it onto a clean 
work surface to bring the dough together by hand. (Do not ﬂour the counter, as you do not want to add any more ﬂour to the dough.)
3. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing the entire surface of the dough with the 
heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet  and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until it begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick, wrap tightly in plastic, 
and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes, or freeze for up to 1 month. If frozen, thaw in the refrigerator overnight before using.
5. Meanwhile, to make the ﬁlling: Heat 2 tbsp of the olive oil in a 
medium sauté pan over high heat. Add the leeks, bay leaf, ½ tsp of the salt, and the black pepper and cook, covered, for 2 minutes,  stirring occasionally. Uncover, lower the heat to medium, and  continue cooking, stirring occasionally, for 2 to 3 minutes longer, until the leeks are nice and soft with a little bit of color. Transfer to a bowl and set aside.flaky dough and its many uses  / 143 6. In the same pan, sauté the garlic in the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil for 
about 1 minute until it is very aromatic. Then add the cherry toma-toes, thyme sprigs, remaining ½ tsp salt, and chile ﬂakes. Sauté over high heat for 3 minutes, covered, until the tomatoes burst. Remove the lid and allow the tomatoes to cook down and thicken for 3 to 4 minutes longer.
 7. Add the cooked leeks to the tomatoes and continue cooking until 
thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Don’t stir too often; you don’t want the tomatoes to break down into a sauce, you want them whole. Transfer to a plate, remove the thyme, and refrigerate until cooled completely.
 8. When the ﬁlling has cooled, shape the dough. Be prepared to work 
quickly with this dough, as it becomes especially impossible to shape if it gets too warm. Have all your tools and components at your ﬁngertips before you take the dough out of the freezer.
 9. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 15-in/38-cm square. 
Quickly, but carefully, transfer the dough to a greased springform pan, allowing the edges to drape over the sides.
 10. Evenly spread the ﬁlling in the center of the dough and fold the 
edges of the crust over the ﬁlling. Brush the top of the crust with egg wash and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Freeze for 25 minutes, or for up to 1 month tightly wrapped. 
 11. Pr eheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. Bake from semi-frozen for 1 hour, 
or until the ﬁlling bubbles and the crust is a deep golden brown. Don’t be afraid of good color. Trust us.
 12. Allow the crostata to cool for about 15 minutes before releasing 
the springform pan. Run a knife around the edges to ensure it doesn’t stick. Gently release the pan. If you feel any resistance, stop, close the clamp, and run the knife around the edge again. Remove the ring, but leave the base underneath. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, well wrapped, at room  temperature, for up to 1 day.144 / huckleberryThe colors on this tart are so deep, rich, and beautiful. Sometimes to make those 
colors pop even more I sprinkle it with powdered sugar or toasted sliced almonds. The contrast is breathtaking.
Plums seem to kick around the farmers’ market long after the other stone fruit has 
vanished. But if you’re using those less sweet, late-season plums, you may need to add a bit more sugar to this recipe.
A fun twist is to substitute seedless grapes for half of the plums, but be sure to 
keep the grapes whole or the ﬁlling may get too watery. Or if you want it a little more sophisticated, substitute goat cheese for the pastry cream and use all grapes and no plums. And if you’re not feeling the multigrain dough or you have a ﬂaky dough packet stashed in your freezer, that always works, too.
Serve warm or at room temperature with Whipped Cream (page 149).
plum multigrain crostata
SERVES 6 TO 8
CRUST
¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour
¾ cup/100 g whole-wheat ﬂour¼ cup/25 g rye ﬂour1 tbsp ﬂax seed meal1 tbsp cornmeal¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar1 tsp baking powder1 tsp kosher salt1 cup/220 g cold unsalted butter,  
cubed
¼ cup/60 ml ice water
FILLING
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar¼ tsp kosher salt8 or 9 small to medium ripe plums,  
cut into eighths
1 batch Pastry Cream (page 148) or  
½ cup/120 ml crème fraîche
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)
Granulated sugar for sprinklingPowdered sugar for dusting (optional)1. T o make the crust: T o mix with a food processor, combine the all- 
purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, rye ﬂour, ﬂax seed meal, cornmeal, granulated sugar, baking powder, and salt and pulse once to blend. Add the butter to the work bowl and pulse about three times until pea-size pieces form. Pour the water over the ﬂour mixture and pulse another three times until the dough is only just starting to come together.
 T o mix by hand, combine the all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, 
rye ﬂour, ﬂax seed meal, cornmeal, granulated sugar, baking powder, and salt in a very large bowl. Stir to blend. Add the butter, working between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the water. Lightly toss to distribute.
2. The dough should be shaggy, dry, and clumpy. Dump it onto a clean 
work surface to bring the dough together by hand. (Do not ﬂour the counter, as you do not want to add any more ﬂour to the dough.)
3. Begin by firmly pressing the entire surface of the dough with the 
heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet  and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until it begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through it.
4. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick, wrap tightly in plastic, 
and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes, or freeze for up to 1 month. If frozen, thaw in the refrigerator overnight before using.flaky dough and its many uses  / 145 5. Meanwhile, to make the ﬁlling: Add the butter, granulated sugar, 
and salt to a large sauté pan. Cook over medium-high heat until the mixture turns a deep dark brown. Stir occasionally so it browns evenly, but not so often that it takes forever to color.
 6. Add the plums and stir once to coat. Cook for 90 seconds with-
out stirring. Then stir once and let it sit for another 90 seconds untouched. Repeat one last time, then slide the plums onto a plate. Refrigerate until cooled completely.
 7. When the plums are cool, start to shape the dough. If the dough feels 
hard, allow it to warm up at room temperature for a few  minutes before working. It should still feel cold to the touch but malleable. Never allow the dough to become too soft or warm. Chill as needed while working.
 8. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll the dough to a 14-in/35.5-cm square. 
Trim the edges; the ﬁnal dough should be about a 13-in/33-cm square.
 9. Gently transfer the dough to a greased springform pan, allowing 
the edges to drape over the sides. Spread the pastry cream on the bottom, then evenly spread the plum ﬁlling on top. Brush the over-hanging dough with egg wash and fold over the ﬁlling. Then brush the top of the crust with egg wash and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Freeze for 20 to 25 minutes, or up to 1 month tightly wrapped.
 10. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. Bake from semi-frozen for 
50 minutes, or until the ﬁlling bubbles and the crust is a deep golden brown. Don’t be afraid of good color. Trust us.
 11. Allow the crostata to cool for about 15 minutes before releasing the 
springform. Run a knife around the edges to ensure it doesn’t stick. Gently release the pan. If you feel any resistance, stop, close the clamp, and run the knife around the edge again. Remove the collar, but leave the base underneath. Cool before dusting with powdered sugar, if desired, and serving.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, wrapped well, at room  temperature, for up to 2 days.146 / huckleberryThis composed tart has a beautiful, traditional French look, especially if you take the 
time to arrange your apricots in neat circles. If you miss apricot’s short season, the only other fruit that really works in this tart is ﬁgs. Most other fruits are just too watery. Another delicious variation is to make this tart with a cinnamon pastry cream. All you have to do is steep two cinnamon sticks in the cream-milk mixture while you make the pastry cream. It will add a lot of depth of ﬂavor to this simple tart.
vanilla apricot tart
SERVES 8 TO 10
1 batch Everyday Flaky Dough  
(page 122)
1 batch Pastry Cream (page 148)8 ripe apricots, pitted and halved2 tbsp granulated sugar2 tbsp brown sugar¼ tsp kosher salt2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted¼ cup/30 g toasted sliced almonds1. Allow the ﬂaky dough to soften at room temperature for 10 to 
20 minutes, depending on the temperature of your house, before rolling. The dough should be cold but malleable.
2. On a lightly ﬂoured surface, roll out the dough to a 15-in/38-cm 
square. Gently transfer the dough into a greased 11- or 12-in/28- or 30.5-cm tart pan. Gently press the dough into the pan without stretching it. Get it into the bottom edges, against the sides, and into every crevice. Then, trim any excess dough by raking it off with the back of a butter knife. Gently press your ﬁngertips into the sides of the pan in order to push the dough slightly above the pan’s edges by about ¼ in/6 mm. (This will make up for the inevitable shrinking when the shell is baked.) 
3. Freeze the dough for at least 1 hour, or up to 1 month, tightly 
wrapped. 
4. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C.5. Line the inside of the frozen shell with parchment paper and ﬁll with 
pie weights. Bake from frozen for about 35 minutes, until the outer rim is starting to brown. Then, carefully remove the parchment and weights, return the shell to the oven, and continue baking until the whole shell is nicely browned, 15 to 20 minutes longer. Let it get a little darker than you think it should!
6. When the shell has cooled, spread the pastry cream evenly over 
the bottom.
7. T oss the halved apricots, granulated sugar, brown sugar, salt, and 
melted butter together in a bowl. Then arrange the apricots, cut-side up, on the pastry cream.
8. Bake for 1 hour and 25 minutes, until the pastry cream looks set and 
the fruit is browned. Allow to cool to room temperature. Sprinkle with the toasted almonds before cutting and serving. 
This is best served the day it’s made.148 / huckleberryThis is a great base recipe that you can use for many things. We often play with this 
recipe by making ﬂavored pastry creams or steeping different things in the cream, such as a couple of cinnamon sticks, toasted nuts, citrus zest, or coffee grounds. It makes a slightly larger batch than some of the recipes require, so be sure to wrap any leftovers and use it within a few days in another recipe, or just have it for dessert with fresh ripe fruit.
pastry cream
MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS/740 G
3 tbsp unsalted butter
2 tsp vanilla extract, or 1 vanilla 
bean, split and scraped
¾ cup/180 ml whole milk¾ cup/180 ml heavy cream1 pinch kosher salt1½ tbsp cornstarch5 tbsp/60 g sugar1 egg1 egg yolk1. Before you begin, put the butter in a medium bowl and set up a 
mesh strainer over it. If you are using vanilla extract instead of a vanilla bean, add that to the bowl as well.
2. In a medium saucepan, heat the milk, cream, salt, and vanilla bean 
(if using) over medium heat.
3. Meanwhile, in another bowl, whisk together the cornstarch, sugar, 
and egg and egg yolk and keep nearby.
4. When the cream mixture boils, reduce the heat to low. T o make 
sure you don’t cook the egg mixture, add only ¼ cup/60 ml of the hot cream mixture to the egg mixture and immediately whisk it in. Repeat twice more, so the egg mixture is gradually warmed by the cream mixture.
5. Pour the warmed egg mixture into the remaining cream mixture in 
the saucepan and whisk to combine. Increase the heat to medium and whisk constantly until it begins to thicken, 1 to 2 minutes.
6. When the mixture is the texture of pudding, remove the pan from 
the heat and immediately strain the pastry cream into the bowl with the butter.
7. Whisk the butter into the pastry cream until completely incorpo-
rated. Immediately cover with plastic wrap, pressing the plastic directly onto the surface of the pastry cream in order to prevent a skin from forming. Refrigerate until cool.
This keeps well, tightly wrapped, refrigerated, for up to 4 days.flaky dough and its many uses  / 149I like whipped cream with almost every pastry in this book. I always put out a bowl 
with any brunch spread; it just makes everything better. We like the addition of crème fraîche to make the ﬂavor of this whipped cream a little more complex. If you don’t have crème fraîche just use all cream and it will still work perfectly. You can also use honey or maple syrup instead of sugar or add a ½ tsp cinnamon for a cinnamon whipped cream.
whipped cream
MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS/240 G
1 cup/240 ml heavy cream
2 tbsp crème fraîche1 tbsp sugarCombine the cream, crème fraîche, and sugar in a medium bowl 
or in the bowl of a stand mixer with the whisk attachment. Whip by hand or on medium speed until ﬂuffy and smooth. Be careful not to overwhip. Take it slow as you get close and do not let it get tex-tured or curdled looking. Serve immediately or refrigerate for a few hours and lightly re-whip before serving if it loses its structure.
It’s best used the day it’s made but can be gently whipped back to life after 1 day.7 A.M.
baked in a 
dishThe servers saunter in, tired, chatting each other up, 
moving at a snail’s pace. This is the busiest time for the bakery with less than an hour to get everything out of the ovens and looking presentable out front. A young, enthusiastic, but slightly confused server meanders his way around the kitchen looking for the juicer. He clearly doesn’t realize that we’ve been here for almost four hours already and are not in any way just waking up. “Get out of my way,” Laurel screams. “We have hot sheet pans in our hands and mixing bowls going at full speed and you’re sauntering through the kitchen like you’re at a garden party.” One of my bakers chimes in, “And say ‘behind,’ damn it, you’re going to get burned or worse you’re going to get me burned!” I chime in with my usual line, “Burn ’em; they’ll learn.” Immediately Joel, our GM, peeks his head around the corner and, of course, I’m the one who gets busted. “Zoe, you said you would stop saying that, it’s a liability and it’s also rude!” Joel’s generally right and I feel like a teenager who’s just been scolded. “Fine, but they can at least say ‘behind’ or move a little quicker!” I retort. Joel has been our general manager at Huckleberry from the day we opened our doors. We have fought and cried and made up with one another way more times than I can possibly count. Josh and I hired him because he was honestly everything that we are not: organized, detail oriented, a lover of rules and handbooks and 
writing memos. He loves Velcro-ing things wherever he can and can text faster than any human alive. He is also sweet and funny and constantly questions Josh and me, which makes our restaurant better each day.
The servers scurry, seeing that they have disturbed 
the lions. The guys on the line are really getting antsy to take over the ovens and roast the twenty sheet pans of bacon they have piled up waiting to go in. They start to harass me. I apologize that the cobblers are not done yet. I’m not risking having them taste like bacon, so they will have to wait. And honestly, my heart goes out to them; Huckleberry is one of the few kitchens where pastry doesn’t take a back seat to savory. In most restaurant kitchens, pastry chefs and bakers fall pretty far down on the totem pole. They are given the least amount of space to work in, are the last to be able to use shared equipment, and are the ﬁrst to get cut if labor costs get too high. If you see panna cotta, bread pudding, or crème brûlée on a menu, you know they either never had a pastry chef or she just got ﬁred. But hopefully she will soon be hired by me.
I promise them just a few more minutes. This cobbler 
is taking a year and a day to bake!152 / huckleberryMy mom always talked to me about living one’s life like an artist and turning your 
daily tasks into works of art, living your art form as life. I’ve kept those words in my heart, and to me there is no better installation than the scent of apples and cinnamon ﬁlling the air. It instantly makes your house feel like a home.
Any given week during apple season, there are ten to twelve wonderful varieties 
of apples available at our farmers’ market and they are almost all amazing for baking. The only ones to avoid are Fuji. They’re just too sweet to bake.
As different apples have different bake times, use the time mentioned in this 
 recipe not as law but as a guideline. Stick with the one variety you love the most so they cook evenly, and give them a poke before you pull them from the oven to make sure the fruit is nice and soft.
Scoop directly from the casserole dish and serve with Whipped Cream (page 149) 
or plain Greek yogurt and maple syrup.
baked apples with oat crumble
SERVES 10 TO 12
CRUMBLE
¾ cup/170 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
½ tsp cinnamon1 tsp vanilla extract1 cup/120 g whole-wheat ﬂour2¼ cups/115 g rolled oats1 tsp kosher salt2 tbsp honey½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g brown sugar
6 apples, peeled, halved, and cored
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter, melted3 tbsp granulated sugar2 tbsp brown sugar¼ tsp kosher salt½ tsp cinnamon1¾ cups/410 ml apple juice1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. 
2. T o make the crumble: Combine the butter, cinnamon, vanilla, w hole-
wheat ﬂour, oats, salt, honey, and brown sugar in a bowl and blend with your ﬁngertips until homogenous. Refrigerate until needed.
3. In a medium bowl, toss the apples with the butter, granulated sugar, 
brown sugar, salt, and cinnamon.
4. Pour the apple juice into a 9½-by-13½-in/24-by-34-cm baking dish, 
then ﬁt the apples in snugly, cut-side up. Cover with foil. 
5. Bake until the apples are soft, about 1 hour. As different varieties 
have different bake times, be sure to give them a poke to see if they’re ready.
6. Remove the foil and top the apples with the crumble. Increase the 
oven temperature to 425°F/220°C and bake until the topping is nice and brown, about 20 minutes longer. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This keeps, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.154 / huckleberryThis is an incredibly simple, beautiful, and delicious dish. When topping the peaches 
with the crumble, it’s important to pile the crumble only into the center cavity of each peach, so it’s easy to plate them individually. When serving them, use a spatula to carefully remove each peach from the baking dish, so each person has a beautiful peach half on their plate. Set out bowls of yogurt or lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149) at breakfast, or serve with vanilla ice cream after dinner. Feel free to use whatever nut you have in your pantry for the crumble, but I deﬁnitely prefer it with walnuts.
roasted peaches with nut crumble
SERVES 12
CRUMBLE
1 cup/50 g rolled oats
½ cup/50 g almond ﬂour½ cup/110 g brown sugar½ cup/60 g chopped walnuts, 
 lightly toasted
6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter3 tbsp maple syrup½ tsp kosher salt
6 ripe yellow peaches, halved,  
pits discarded
2 tbsp unsalted butter, melted1 tbsp brown sugar1 tbsp granulated sugarpinch kosher salt1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. 
2. T o make the crumble: Combine the oats, almond ﬂour, brown sugar, 
walnuts, butter, maple syrup, and salt in a bowl and blend with your ﬁngertips until homogenous. Refrigerate until needed.
3. In a medium bowl, toss the peach halves, melted butter, brown 
sugar, granulated sugar, and salt.
4. Arrange the peaches, cut-side up, in a 9½-by-13½-in/24-by-34-cm 
baking dish. Fill each cavity with 2 to 3 tbsp of the crumble, keeping the outer edges of the peaches visible.
5. Bake until the topping is browned and the peaches are tender, about 
50 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 days. Reheat in a 350°F/180°C oven as needed, or just nibble on them cold.baked in a dish  / 155This recipe calls for a lot of berries and it’s best to use fresh ones, so please try not to 
curse me when you see how much it costs to make. The best thing to do is to make it at the height of summer when the berries are at their best, and cheapest. If you remember ahead of time, go to your local berry farmers at the farmers’ market and ask them to bring you seconds the next week at a cheaper price.
Use whatever berries you like best and also remember it’s important to get a good 
deep brown on the biscuits for depth of ﬂavor and to give the fruit enough time to bake.
This cobbler should be juicy and messy in the best possible way. Set it out with 
a big spoon and a stack of coffee mugs for guests to scoop it into. Serve with lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149).
mixed berry cobbler
SERVES 10 TO 12
BISCUIT TOPPING
6 tbsp/45 g whole-wheat ﬂour
1½ cups/200 g all-purpose ﬂour7 tbsp/40 g ground nuts or toasted oats1 tbsp + 1½ tsp baking powder¼ cup/50 g granulated sugar1¼ tsp kosher salt1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g cold unsalted 
butter, cubed
7 tbsp/110 ml cold buttermilk
FILLING
10 cups/1.4 kg mixed berries,  
such as blueberries, blackberries, raspberries, and strawberries
Zest of ½ lemon1 tbsp brown sugar⅓ cup/65 g granulated sugar½ tsp kosher salt1 tbsp cornstarch½ cup/120 ml water
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)
Granulated sugar for sprinkling1. T o make the biscuit topping: Combine the whole-wheat ﬂour, 
all-purpose ﬂour, nuts, baking powder, granulated sugar, and salt in a very large bowl, stirring to blend. T oss the butter with the ﬂour mixture. Work the butter between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add buttermilk and lightly toss to distribute.
2. Dump the dough onto a clean work surface. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing 
the entire surface of the dough with the heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until the dough begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter  running through it.
3. Press the dough into a 7½-by-12½-in/19-by-32-cm rectangle about 
½ in/12 mm thick. Slice the dough into ﬁfteen 2½-in/6-cm squares (that’s ﬁve across and three down). Transfer to an ungreased sheet pan and freeze for at least 1 hour, or up to 1 month tightly wrapped.
4. When you’re ready to bake, preheat the oven to 350°F/180°C.5. T o make the ﬁlling: T oss together the berries, lemon zest, brown 
sugar, granulated sugar, salt, cornstarch, and water. Pour the ﬁlling into a 9½-by-13½-in/24-by-34-cm baking dish.
6. Brush the frozen biscuits with egg wash, sprinkle with granulated 
sugar, and position on top of the ﬁlling, ﬁve across and three down. Bake until the ﬁlling bubbles and the biscuits are a deep golden brown, about 1 hour. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This is best eaten the day it’s made but keeps, refrigerated, for up to  2 days, and is great to eat cold right from the fridge.baked in a dish  / 157This is one of my favorite breakfasts to make during the summer. It won’t look or feel 
like a traditional deep-dish cobbler, because it’s made in a skillet and there isn’t an overabundance of tomatoes; think of it more as a shallow-dish cobbler. It’s meant to be served family-style, and there’s nothing more fun and beautiful than sitting around a table drinking coffee, all eating from the same warm skillet. I keep a bunch of these biscuits ready to bake in my freezer, so throwing this together at the last minute is easy. This cobbler is really just as much about the biscuits as it is about the tomatoes. Depending on my mood and my crowd, I’ll add more or less goat cheese. 
cherry tomato–goat cheese cobbler
SERVES 4
BISCUIT TOPPING
3 tbsp whole-wheat ﬂour
¾ cup/100 g all-purpose ﬂour3½ tbsp cornmeal2¼ tsp baking powder1½ tbsp sugar½ tsp kosher salt½ cup + 1 tbsp/130 g cold unsalted 
butter, cubed
3½ tbsp cold buttermilk
FILLING
5 cups/900 g cherry tomatoes2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil4 sprigs fresh thyme1 tsp kosher salt
1 batch Egg Wash (page 74)
4 to 6 tbsp/55 to 85 g goat cheese1. T o make the biscuit topping: Combine the whole-wheat ﬂour, all- 
purpose ﬂour, cornmeal, baking powder, sugar, and salt in a very large bowl. Stir to blend. T oss the butter with the ﬂour mixture. Work the butter between your ﬁngertips until the pieces are pea- and lima bean–size. Add the buttermilk and lightly toss to distribute.
2. Dump the dough onto a clean work surface. Begin by ﬁrmly pressing 
the entire surface of the dough with the heel of your palm. T oss and squeeze the dough to redistribute the wet and dry patches. Repeat, pressing thoroughly again with the heel of your palm, and continue pressing, tossing, and squeezing until it begins to hold together. But be sure not to overwork the dough! It should stay together but you should still see pea-size bits of butter running through it.
3. Press the dough into a disc ¾ in/2 cm thick. Cut the dough into 
nine biscuits. Transfer to an ungreased sheet pan and freeze for 1 to 2 hours. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C.
4. T o make the ﬁlling: Combine the cherry tomatoes, olive oil, 2 sprigs 
of the thyme, and the salt in an ovenproof sauté pan. Cover and cook over high heat until the tomatoes begin to soften, 2 to 3 minutes. Uncover and continue cooking until all the tomatoes burst slightly.
5. Brush the frozen biscuits with egg wash and arrange them, 1 in/ 
2.5 cm apart, on top of the tomato mixture in the skillet. Bake for 25 minutes. Remove brieﬂy and quickly dollop the goat cheese between the biscuits over any exposed tomato. Return to the oven, increasing the temperature to 475°F/240°C, and continue baking until the top is nicely browned, about 10 minutes longer. Serve warm or at room temperature, topped with the remaining thyme.
This is best eaten the day it’s made.baked in a dish  / 159This crisp can be completely assembled the day before and thrown right into the 
oven the next morning. I love recipes like this, especially when you’re trying to  prepare a big brunch in 2 hours. Please only make this at the peak of summer, when the nectarines are ripe and soft and the blueberries are full of ﬂavor. Also, don’t let the  crumble completely blanket the fruit. I always like it when little bits of fruit peek through and are allowed to brown during baking. This adds to the crumble’s ﬂavor and makes it look beautifully rustic.
Serve with Whipped Cream (page 149) for brunch or with vanilla ice cream 
for dessert.
blueberry nectarine crisp
SERVES 8 TO 10
TOPPING
1 cup/130 g all-purpose ﬂour
½ cup + 3 tbsp/160 g unsalted butter, 
cubed, at room temperature
1 cup/95 g almond ﬂour½ cup + 1 tbsp/110 g granulated sugar1 tsp kosher salt
FILLING
11 ripe nectarines, sliced into eighths3 cups/450 g fresh blueberries2 tsp cornstarch3 tbsp granulated sugar3 tbsp brown sugar¼ tsp kosher salt1. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C.
2. T o make the topping: Combine the all-purpose ﬂour, butter, almond 
ﬂour, granulated sugar, and salt in a bowl and blend with your ﬁnger-tips until homogenous. Refrigerate until needed.
3. T o make the ﬁlling: T oss the nectarines and blueberries with the 
cornstarch, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and salt. 
4. Pour the ﬁlling into a 9½-by-13½-in/24-by-34-cm baking dish and 
sprinkle with the topping, allowing bits of fruit to peek through.
5. Bake until the ﬁlling bubbles and the topping is deeply browned, 
about 1 hour. Serve warm or at room temperature.
This keeps, refrigerated, for 2 to 3 days.160 / huckleberryThis is our whole-wheat shortbread with tons of fruit on top and a whole lot of crumble,  
my idea of pure heaven. These would also be great with cranberries, sautéed apples, sautéed peaches, or sour cherries. But blackberries and blueberries are our traditional combination.
The best way to enjoy these is simply with a tall glass of milk. Or, if you want to take 
it to the next level, spike your milk. I can’t imagine a better cure for a sleepless night.
It’s key to slice the bars the moment they emerge from the oven. If you let them 
cool at all, they’ll be too crumbly and you’ll end up with a big ol’ mess instead of beauti-ful, clean-looking squares.
black and blue oat bars
MAKES 16 BARS
CRUST
1 cup + 2 tbsp/255 g unsalted butter, 
cubed, at room temperature
⅓ cup/65 g granulated sugar½ tsp kosher salt1⅓ cups/170 g all-purpose ﬂour¾ cup/95 g whole-wheat ﬂour⅔ cup/85 g cornstarch
CRUMBLE
1 cup + 2 tbsp/55 g rolled oats½ cup/60 g whole-wheat ﬂour6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter, cubed,  
at room temperature
5 tbsp/70 g brown sugar1 tbsp honey½ tsp kosher salt
FILLING
5 cups/750 g blackberries and 
blueberries
1 tbsp cornstarch½ cup + 2 tbsp/130 g granulated sugar1 tbsp water¼ tsp kosher salt1. Grease an 8-in/20-cm square baking pan.
2. T o make the crust: Cream the butter, granulated sugar, and salt in a 
stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment until ﬂuffy, 1 to 2 min-utes. Add the all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, and cornstarch. Mix cautiously, just until combined.
3. Press the dough into the prepared pan, distributing it evenly. Refrig-
erate for at least 30 minutes. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C.
4. Meanwhile, to make the crumble: Combine the oats, whole-wheat 
ﬂour, butter, brown sugar, honey, and salt in a bowl and blend with your ﬁngertips until homogenous. Set aside in the refrigerator until needed.
5. Bake the crust until golden, about 35 minutes.6. When the crust nears readiness, make the ﬁlling: T oss together the 
berries, cornstarch, granulated sugar, water, and salt to combine.
7. Remove the crust from the oven and, immediately, while hot, ﬁll it 
with the berry mixture and top with the crumble. Return it to the oven to continue baking until the ﬁlling bubbles and the crumble is deeply browned, about 1 hour longer.
8. While it’s hot, quickly slice into squares. I like to cut sixteen squares, 
which is four by four, but you can go with any size or shape you like— just as long as you cut them right away. Allow to cool completely before removing the squares from the pan. The best way is to run a knife through the original cuts a second time, then pry the squares out with a small spatula. Once you snag the ﬁrst one, it gets easier.
These keep beautifully, tightly wrapped, at room temperature, for up to 3 days.162 / huckleberryIn terms of squash, you can always use butternut or whatever looks gorgeous at your 
farmers’ market. I chose kabocha squash for this recipe, honestly, because it was what looked most beautiful at the market the day I ﬁrst made it. If you don’t eat meat, feel free to omit the sausage—but I will say the saltiness of the sausage next to the sweetness of the squash is the thing that makes this dish feel breakfasty to me. If you choose to omit the meat, you may want to use a little more salt in the breadcrumbs so you still get that salty-sweet taste.
Serve big generous scoops with runny sunny-side-up eggs.
kabocha squash and sausage  
brown betty
SERVES 10 TO 12
3 tbsp unsalted butter
3 kabocha squash, halved and seeded2 tbsp brown sugar2 tsp kosher salt1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 garlic clove6 cups/130 g chopped kale½ cup/120 ml heavy cream
TOPPING
½ cup/110 g unsalted butter24 fresh sage leaves8 oz/110 g raw breakfast sausage, 
casings removed
2 cups/215 g breadcrumbs2 tsp brown sugar1½ tsp kosher salt1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. 
2. Drop ½ tbsp butter inside each squash half and sprinkle each with 
1 tsp brown sugar and ¼ tsp salt. Tightly wrap in foil and roast until very soft, about 2 hours.
3. Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan, heat the olive oil and garlic until 
fragrant and browned. Add the kale and remaining ½ tsp salt and sauté until wilted. Set aside.
4. T o make the topping: In the same pan, melt the butter over high 
heat. And the sage and sausage. Brown the meat while breaking it up into ﬁne crumbles. Remove from the heat and add the breadcrumbs, brown sugar, and salt to the pan. T oss together and set aside.
5. When the squash has cooled, scoop out the ﬂesh. You should have 
8 to 10 cups/1 to 1.4 kg. If you have much more, reserve it for another use. Blend the squash with the cream in a food processor on  medium-high until very smooth.
6. Combine the squash purée with the kale, folding until everything 
is well distributed. Spread the squash mixture into a 9½-by-13½-in/ 25-by-34-cm casserole dish, top with the sausage crumble, and bake until heated through, about 30 minutes. Serve warm.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days. Reheat in a 350°F/180°C oven until heated through.baked in a dish  / 163Once you’ve started baking from this book, you will begin to understand my love of 
salty and sweet. This recipe is the epitome of salty-sweet. Whenever I make this pud-ding I always try to make a double batch. I serve one fresh from the oven and refriger-ate the second without the topping. The next morning, I cut 1-in/2.5-cm slices, sear them in a hot sauté pan with butter, and serve them for breakfast with maple syrup. It tastes like the best French toast you have ever had. Also, if you don’t like nuts, just don’t put them on top, it’s no big deal.
This pudding should be served scooped straight from the pan either on its own or 
with lightly sweetened Whipped Cream (page 149).
maple bacon bread pudding
SERVES 8 TO 10
12 slices thick-cut bacon
9 eggs6 tbsp/85 g sugar½ cup/120 ml crème fraîche1 vanilla bean, split and scraped,  
pod reserved
1 cup/240 ml whole milk1 cup/240 ml heavy cream½ tsp kosher salt⅔ cup/160 ml maple syrup1 loaf Brioche (page 105), or any  
bread going stale in your pantry
½ cup/55 g chopped pecans,  
toasted (optional)1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C. 
2. Spread the bacon on a sheet pan and bake until nice and brown, 
about 15 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, make a custard by whisking the eggs, sugar, crème 
fraîche, and vanilla bean seeds together. Add the milk, cream, salt, and 7 tbsp/100 ml of the maple syrup. Whisk until combined and set aside.
4. Remove the crust from the brioche and cut into slices 1 in/2.5 cm 
thick. Set aside. Chop the bacon into ¼-in/6-mm pieces. Sprinkle about one-third of the bacon into the bottom of a 5-by-9-in/12-by-23-cm loaf pan. Arrange a few slices of brioche on top, completely covering the pan in one even layer. Continue to alternate layers of bacon and bread until all the ingredients have been used. You should have about three layers. T op with the vanilla bean pod as a nonedible garnish.
5. Re-whisk the custard to make sure it’s combined and slowly pour 
it over the bread layers, allowing it to soak in and completely cover the top. Reserve any excess custard and add later, after the bread has had time to absorb the liquid. You should eventually use all the custard.
6. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or overnight.7. Preheat your oven to 325°F/165°C. Bake, uncovered, for 1 hour and 
10 minutes, or until the custard is cooked through and the top is nice and brown.
8. Warm the remaining ¼ cup/60 ml maple syrup and toasted pecans 
in a small sauté pan and pour over the top of the bread pudding when you’re read to serve. Serve the pudding warm or at room temperature.
This keeps well, tightly wrapped, refrigerated, for up to 4 days.164 / huckleberryThis is a great side dish for a summer brunch. You can serve it alongside the Brussels 
Sprouts and Bacon Frittata (page 171), a big green salad, and Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble (page 154) for a beautiful meal that will make your guests really happy. When I make this bread pudding, I bake the cornbread the day before so it gets a little dried out and can really soak up the custard. You can put this together the night before you intend to serve it, so all you have to do in the morning is bake it. The key to this recipe is using fresh sweet corn and ﬁnishing it with ﬂeur de sel and savory leaves.
cornbread pudding
SERVES 10 TO 12
1 batch Fresh Corn Cornbread,  
fresh corn omitted, sugar reduced  by 3 tbsp (page 167)
1 onion, chopped2 tbsp unsalted butter1 tbsp chopped fresh savory, plus 
¼ cup/20 g whole, fresh savory leaves
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme¾ tsp kosher salt1 tsp freshly ground black pepper3½ cups/560 g fresh corn kernels 
(about 3 cobs)
10 eggs4 cups/950 ml heavy cream6 tbsp/20 g chopped fresh chives¼ cup/50 g sugar2 cups/200 g grated Cheddar½ cup/50 g grated Parmesan1 tsp ﬂeur de sel1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C.
2. Cut the cornbread into 1½-in/4-cm cubes and arrange in a single 
layer on one or two sheet pans. T oast until browned and crisp, about  20 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a medium sauté pan, combine the onion, butter, 
chopped savory and thyme, ¼ tsp of the salt, and ¼ tsp of the pep-per. Sauté over medium heat until softened but not browned. Add the corn to the pan and sauté, stirring often, until tender, about  2 minutes. Set the onion mixture aside.
4. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, cream, chives, sugar, the 
remaining ½ tsp salt, and remaining ¾ tsp pepper and set aside.
5. Combine the cornbread with the onion mixture in the casserole 
dish, pour the custard over everything, and top with Cheddar and Parmesan.
6. Bake until the custard sets and the top browns, about 40 minutes.7. T op with whole fresh savory leaves and ﬂeur de sel. Serve warm or at 
room temperature.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.baked in a dish  / 167This is your old-fashioned cornbread made insanely moist and delicious. It is the oppo-
site of dry, and can really stand on its own without needing to be slathered with butter. 
This recipe is wildly versatile. Use fresh corn if you can; if it’s not in season, you 
don’t need it. For a fun jalapeño Cheddar version, increase the salt to 2 tsp, omit the honey, add ½ cup/120 g grated Cheddar, 2 jalapeños, ﬁnely chopped, and 2 tbsp chopped parsley. Take it any direction you please. The honey glaze is optional; if you go in a more savory direction, I would omit it. 
If you are making this cornbread for use in our Cornbread Pudding (page 164), 
omit the fresh corn and reduce the sugar to 6 tbsp/60 g.
fresh corn cornbread
MAKES SIXTEEN 2-IN/5-CM SQUARES
6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter
½ cup + 1 tbsp/110 g sugar1¾ tsp kosher salt 4 eggs1 cup/160 g cornmeal ¾ cup + 2 tbsp/100 g all-purpose ﬂour ¼ cup/30 g whole-wheat ﬂour 1 tbsp + 1 tsp baking powder ½ cup/120 ml whole milk1 cup/240 ml buttermilk¾ cup/180 ml canola oil 2 tbsp honey, plus ¼ cup/85 g for 
glazing (optional)
1½ cups/365 g fresh corn kernels 
(about 2 cobs; optional)1. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C and grease an 8-by-8-in/ 
20-by-20 cm pan.
2. In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, 
sugar, and salt on medium-high speed until light and ﬂuffy, about 2 minutes. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Be sure to scrape the sides of the bowl well. Pause mixing and add the cornmeal, all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, and baking powder. 
3. With the mixer on low speed, pour in the milk, buttermilk, canola oil, 
and 2 tbsp honey and mix. This is a very loose batter. Small lumps of butter are no problem, but avoid any lumps of ﬂour. If you see them, mix a little longer or work them out with your ﬁngers.
4. Fold in the corn, if in season; if not, omit.5. Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 45 to 50 minutes,  
or until a cake tester comes out clean. Do not overbake! 
6. If you are choosing to glaze, slightly warm the ¼ cup/85 g honey in a 
small saucepan and lightly brush the top of the warm cake.
This is best served the day it’s made but keeps, wrapped well, at room temperature, for up to 2 days.168 / huckleberryA strata  is a fancy name for a savory bread pudding. Bread puddings are a great way  
to turn old bread and a bunch of scraps you have lying around your kitchen into some-thing rich and satisfying. It was hard for me to decide what vegetables to use in this recipe, as there really are a million options. A few of my other favorite combinations are cherry tomatoes, caramelized onions, and corn; ham and cheese; or butternut squash, kale, and caramelized onions. Also feel free to substitute any old bread you have for the multigrain bread.
This should be scooped directly from the casserole dish onto the serving plate. 
Because it’s a heavier entrée, it’s best served with a salad.
zucchini, spring onion, and  
sun-dried tomato strata
SERVES 10 TO 12
4 tbsp/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil
4 garlic cloves6 cups/550 g sliced zucchini,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm coins
2¾ tsp kosher salt4 sprigs fresh thyme2 pinches chile ﬂakes5 cups/240 g sliced spring onions,  
cut into ½-inch/12-mm rounds
8 eggs½ cup/120 ml crème fraîche1 tsp sugar1 cup/240 ml heavy cream1 cup/240 ml whole milk½ tsp freshly ground black pepper1 loaf multigrain bread or large 
multigrain baguette
Two 7-oz/200-g jars sun-dried tomatoes  
in oil, drained and sliced
1¼ cups/125 g freshly grated Parmesan1 batch Béchamel (page 243)1. Preheat your oven to 325°F/165°C.
2. Heat 2 tbsp of the olive oil and 2 garlic cloves in a large sauté pan 
over high heat until fragrant. Add the zucchini, ½ tsp of the salt, 2 sprigs of the thyme, and a pinch of chile ﬂakes and sauté until golden brown. Discard the thyme and set the zucchini aside in a very large bowl.
3. In the same pan, heat the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil and remaining 
garlic over high heat until fragrant. Add the spring onions, ½ tsp salt, the remaining thyme sprigs, and a pinch chile ﬂakes and sauté until golden brown. Discard the thyme and set the spring onions aside in the bowl with the zucchini.
4. Whisk the eggs, crème fraîche, sugar, the remaining 1¾ tsp salt, the 
cream, milk, and pepper together in a large bowl. Set aside.
5. Slice the bread into 1-in/2.5-cm cubes, leaving the crust on, and 
drop into the bowl with the vegetable mixture. Add the sundried tomatoes and ½ cup/50 g of the Parmesan.
6. Pour the béchamel over the bread mixture, tossing everything to 
combine. Transfer to a 9½-by-13½-in/24-by-34-cm casserole dish and pour the egg mixture over it, making sure everything is well saturated.
7. Bake until cooked through, about 1 hour. Peek into the center with 
a small paring knife to check for doneness; if the eggs are still liquidy, bake for a bit longer. Remove from the oven and quickly top with the remaining ¾ cup/75 g Parmesan. Set your oven to broil and bake until the cheese is browned and bubbling, 5 to 10 minutes longer. Watch like a hawk so it doesn’t burn! Serve warm or at room temperature.
This keeps, refrigerated, for up to 3 days. Reheat in a 350°F/180°C oven until heated through.baked in a dish  / 169The ﬁrst time I had romanesco in a frittata was at my brother-in-law Gabe’s house. 
I was running around after Milo while everyone else sat down to a civilized meal when suddenly my husband shoved a bite into my mouth, and then into Milo’s, and we all enjoyed ﬁve seconds of calm yum, before Milo went back to trying to run into the street.
Romanesco looks and tastes basically like a mixture of cauliﬂower and broccoli. 
When cooked, it takes on a sweet buttery taste. If you can’t ﬁnd it, just substitute  cauliﬂower. Gabe added goat cheese to his, which was wonderful, so feel free to do that, too.
Serve with an arugula salad tossed with torn basil, breadcrumbs, and balsamic 
vinegar. Any leftover frittata makes a great sandwich the next day, on fresh bread, with aioli and tomato.
mushroom and romanesco frittata
SERVES 6
FILLING
4 cups/370 g sliced mushrooms,  
lightly rinsed
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil2 tbsp unsalted butter1 tsp kosher salt2 tsp chopped fresh thyme2 pinches chile ﬂakes2 cups/320 g thinly sliced yellow onionsFreshly ground black pepper2 cups/140 g chopped romanesco  
or cauliﬂower
CUSTARD
10 eggs
2 tbsp crème fraîche2 tbsp grated Parmesan1 tbsp chopped fresh chives½ tsp kosher salt¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup/30 g grated Gruyère1. Preheat your oven to 475°F/240°C.
2. T o make the ﬁlling: In a 10-in/25-cm cast-iron or other ovenproof 
skillet, sauté the mushrooms in 1 tbsp of the olive oil and 1 tbsp of the butter with ½ tsp of the salt, the thyme, and a pinch of chile ﬂakes and cook over high heat, covered, for about 4 minutes. Lower the heat to medium-high and add the onions, the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil, remaining 1 tbsp butter, and ¼ tsp salt. Season with black pepper and a pinch of chile ﬂakes and cook, covered, for 2 to 3 minutes. Uncover and cook about 15 minutes longer, until the onions are soft and light golden.
3. Add the romanesco and remaining ¼ tsp salt. Continue to cook over 
medium heat, stirring frequently to avoid burning, until the roman-esco is soft, 15 to 20 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, make the custard. In a mixing bowl, whisk together the 
eggs, crème fraîche, Parmesan, chives, salt, and pepper.
5. When the vegetables are ready, pour the custard into the pan and 
stir, lightly scrambling the eggs, over medium-high heat. When the eggs are about 30 percent set, sprinkle with the Gruyère and  transfer to the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, until the frittata is cooked through and browned on top. If the frittata doesn’t show signs of browning, place it under the broiler for 2 minutes, but watch it like a hawk!
6. Immediately transfer the frittata to a plate by running a spatula 
around the edges and underneath to free it from the pan. Serve hot or at room temperature.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.baked in a dish  / 171There are so many great obvious food combinations—peas and carrots, peanut butter 
and jelly, tomatoes and mozzarella, and, of course, Brussels sprouts and bacon. Why ﬁght it if it just works.
Frittatas are just as good at room temperature as they are hot out of the oven; if 
you are entertaining, this is an ideal thing to make early so you can attend to other tasks once your guests have arrived.
I love to serve this frittata with an arugula salad tossed with sliced dates, olive oil, 
lemon juice, salt and pepper, and hand-torn crispy breadcrumbs. And Butter and Herb Potatoes (page 172).
brussels sprouts and bacon frittata
SERVES 6
FILLING
8 slices thick-cut bacon, chopped
1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 tbsp unsalted butter1 onion, chopped1 tsp kosher salt2 sprigs fresh thyme2 cups/180 g Brussels sprouts,  
thinly sliced, plus 1 cup/35 g Brussels sprouts leaves
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
CUSTARD
10 eggs2 tbsp crème fraîche2 tbsp grated Parmesan1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
2 tbsp unsalted butter
3 tbsp grated Gruyère1. Preheat your oven to 475°F/240°C.
2. T o make the ﬁlling: In a large sauté pan over medium-high heat,  
sauté the bacon in 2 tsp of the olive oil and the butter, until browned.  Add the onion, ½ tsp of the salt, and the thyme and sauté until soft, about 10 minutes. Add the sliced Brussels sprouts and sauté for about 5 minutes longer, until soft. Transfer the vegetable mixture  to a bowl and set aside.
3. T oss the Brussels sprouts leaves in the remaining 1 tsp olive oil, 
remaining ½ tsp salt, and the pepper. Set aside.
4. T o make the custard: In a mixing bowl, whisk together the eggs, 
crème fraîche, Parmesan, and parsley. Set aside.
5. In a 10-in/25-cm cast-iron or other ovenproof sauté pan, melt the 
2 tbsp butter over medium-high heat. Pour the custard into the pan and stir, lightly scrambling the eggs. Slowly add the vegetable mixture to the custard and continue scrambling. When the eggs are about 30 percent set, sprinkle with the Brussels sprouts leaves, top with the Gruyère, and transfer to the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, until the frittata is cooked through and browned on top. If the frittata doesn’t show signs of browning, place under the broiler for 2 min-utes, but watch it like a hawk!
6. Immediately transfer the frittata to a plate by running a spatula 
around the edges and underneath to free it from the pan. Serve hot or at room temperature.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.172 / huckleberryWe are blessed to be just a few blocks from the Santa Monica Farmers’ Market. Every 
week we get the most wonderful potatoes from Weiser Farms, which may very well be the best potatoes in the world. The quality of your potatoes does really make a differ-ence, so try to get your hands on the best you can ﬁnd. If you can’t ﬁnd ﬁngerlings, you can use Yukon golds, Red Bliss, or White Rose. Anything but russets, as the texture just 
doesn’t work.
You’ll ﬁnd our cooking technique here to be a little odd. I’ve found that the way to 
get the crispiest, most ﬂavorful potatoes is to remove them from the oven, cool them slightly, then ﬂash-crisp them in a hot oven just before serving. You’ll see.
And if you happen to have any duck fat kicking around, I cannot stress enough how 
awesome these potatoes are if you use it instead of butter! They’re also really delicious liberally sprinkled with freshly grated Parmesan before their last trip through the oven.
Of course, serve them alongside any of the frittatas, but they’re just as good at  
the center of a meal with over-easy eggs on top and Spicy T omato Jam (page 211) on the side.
And remember, potatoes roasted this way are best the day they’re made. Any left-
overs can be put to good use in a frittata, strata, soup, and savory crostatas.
butter and herb potatoes
SERVES 3 OR 4
2½ tbsp unsalted butter
1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil2½ lb/1.2 kg ﬁngerling potatoes,  
cut into ¼-in/6-mm slices
2 tbsp chopped fresh thyme2 tbsp chopped fresh rosemary1 tsp kosher saltFreshly ground black pepper½ cup/7 g fresh parsley leaves1 lemon, quarteredFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. T oss the butter, olive oil, potatoes, thyme, rosemary, and salt in a 
large bowl. Season with pepper.
3. Arrange in a single layer on a sheet pan and roast until soft but not 
quite browned, about 25 minutes. Flip the potatoes with a spatula and increase the oven temperature to 475°F/240°C. Return the potatoes to the oven to ﬁnish browning, about 10 minutes longer. Set aside and allow to cool for at least 10 minutes, or up to 3 hours. Either way, do not refrigerate; hold at room temperature.
4. After 10 minutes, or whenever you’re ready to serve them, return 
the potatoes to a 475°F/240°C oven for 8 to 10 minutes longer, until crisped to perfection. T oss with the parsley, mound on a serving dish, tuck lemon wedges on the side, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel.
These are best eaten the day they’re made.7:30 A.M.
fried stuffAlexis is about to fry cinnamon-sugar doughnuts, 
but she wants to see what happens if she throws a raw croissant in the fryer. When she does, it imme-diately puffs up, bigger and rounder, browner and crisper than the ones in the oven in a fraction of the time. She thinks it’s genius. She gives me a look that says “Why haven’t you thought of this?” I just shake my head.
She tastes it and her face quickly goes from an 
excited smile to a look of horror. It’s the most dis-gusting thing she’s ever eaten. It tastes of  butter and frying oil, and it’s oozing grease from its  still-raw insides. It wasn’t exactly the “cronut”  she’d expected.
There comes a time in every cook’s life when they 
get obsessed with the fryer. It comes from boredom, fatigue, or the simple understanding that fried things are good and generally sell really well. So far, this is what I’ve learned: Do not attempt to fry croissants (real croissants with the right amount of butter don’t fry well, as opposed to their leaner “cronut” counter-parts), cake batters (to my surprise this is not the way to make a cake doughnut), biscuits, or strawberries. They do not work. There are certain things that the 
fryer turns into works of art, and other things that it makes into toxic waste.
Play time is over. I have an order for thirty dough-
nuts that has to be ready in 20 minutes and I need Alexis to ﬁnish them, get them boxed up, and go take her break. Everything in the front display is coming together. We have bacon in the oven, brisket heating on the stove, brioche doughnuts going into the fryer, and I’m starting to load croissants in the oven. We are in our baking home stretch, until the damn fryer breaks.
Laurel and I immediately start brainstorming. Do we 
call Brian who usually gets the job done, but has to spend 45 minutes in the kitchen eating croissants and ﬂirting with Laurel before he even starts, or Sam who promises he’ll be there in 30 minutes and often doesn’t show up until the next day? Both sound too depressing and are not going to help me get this order out on time. “Screw it,” I tell Alexis. I put a big pot on the stove and ﬁll it with oil. “Let’s fry them in there. The people need their doughnuts—and I’ll deal with this problem later.”176 / huckleberryMy father loves cinnamon-sugar doughnuts and for that reason we have them every 
day at Huckleberry. My son, on the other hand, hates cinnamon-sugar doughnuts (I’m pretty sure it’s because he swallowed a fair amount of sand in the park one day and the texture feels the same to him), so for that reason we always have another doughnut option as well. On the following pages you’ll ﬁnd a few of our favorite glazes. (If  glazing, 
allow the doughnuts to cool while making the glaze.) These donuts are made with our brioche dough. You’ll need to make the dough 1 day ahead, and remember, it’s very important to get your butter to a true room temperature, so please think ahead!
cinnamon-sugar doughnuts
MAKES 10 DOUGHNUTS AN D 16 DOUGHNUT HOLES
1 batch Brioche dough (see page 105)
2 cups/400 g sugar1 tbsp cinnamon¼ tsp kosher saltCanola oil for frying1. Remove the dough from the refrigerator and dump it onto a clean, 
liberally ﬂoured work surface. Sprinkle more ﬂour on top of the dough. Flatten the dough by hand or by rolling it to a thickness of 1½ to 1¾ in/4 to 4.5 cm.
2. Using a 3-in-/7.5-cm-round cutter, cut 10 rounds and transfer them 
to a greased sheet pan, spacing them 1½ in/4 cm apart. Using a ½-in/12-mm round cutter, cut a small hole in each round and place them on the pan as well. Use the leftover dough to cut more holes and place them on the sheet pan, too.
  (With the remaining scraps, you can wrap, refrigerate, and re-roll 
more doughnuts after 1 hour more of chilling; shape them into a small ball and bake a tiny loaf of brioche, or wrap and freeze for another day.)
3. Loosely cover the dough with plastic wrap and allow to rise at room 
temperature, or refrigerate overnight and allow to rise in the morn-ing, until doubled in size, 1 to 2 hours.
4. Meanwhile, stir together the sugar, cinnamon, and salt in a medium 
bowl. Set aside.
5. Heat 3 in/7.5 cm canola oil to 375°F/190°C in a Dutch oven or 
countertop fryer. Begin by frying one test doughnut; after about 2 minutes per side, remove it from the fryer and break it open to check that it’s cooked through. If it’s browned on the outside but raw inside, it means the dough is underproofed and has not risen enough. Stop frying, re-wrap the doughnuts, let them con-tinue to rise, and try again.
6. When the dough is ready, place each doughnut onto a spider, or other  
long-handled skimmer, and carefully lower it into the oil. Working in batches, fry three or four doughnuts at a time until they are a nice golden brown, about 2 minutes per side; then fry the holes all at once  until golden.
7. Immediately toss the doughnuts in cinnamon-sugar and serve hot!
These keep well for only a few hours.178 / huckleberryjelly doughnuts
1 batch Brioche dough (page 105)
1½ cups/510 g Strawberry Jam 
(page 55)
1 tbsp cornstarchPowdered sugar for tossing1. Cut out the same size and shape from the dough as instructed on 
page 176, but do not cut holes in the dough; then fry for 1 to 2 min-utes longer than directed.
2. Add the jam and cornstarch to a medium saucepan and whisk to 
combine. Cook over medium heat, stirring regularly, until the jam bubbles and thickens. Set aside to cool.
3. With a skewer, poke a hole in one side of the doughnut and wiggle 
it around inside to create a pocket. Do not puncture the opposite side. Fill a piping bag or turkey baster with jam and insert 1 to 2 tbsp of ﬁlling into the cavity. Immediately toss each doughnut in pow-dered sugar twice, until well coated.
Dip the top half of the cooled doughnut in the glaze. Transfer to a cooling rack  to set up.
DOUGHNUT GLAZES
MAKES ENOUGH FOR 10 DOUGHNU TS AND 16 DOUGHNUT HOLES
vanilla glaze
2 cups/200 g powdered sugar
1 pinch kosher salt¼ cup + 2 tbsp/90 ml crème fraîche1 tsp vanilla extract½ vanilla bean, split, seeds scraped out2½ tbsp heavy creamSift the powdered sugar and salt into a large mixing bowl. With a 
wooden spoon, stir in the crème fraîche, vanilla extract, and vanilla seeds, stirring to work out any lumps. Whisk or stir in the cream. 
nutella glaze
1¼ cups/370 g Nutella 
½ cup/120 ml whole milk, plus 2 tbsp 
if neededSpoon the Nutella into a large bowl. Gradually add the ½ cup/ 
120 ml milk, a little at a time, whisking until smooth. Check the consis tency and add 2 tbsp more milk if needed. This one won’t really set up, so enjoy it in all its gooeyness.fried stuff  / 179strawberry glaze
½ cup/120 g puréed strawberries
4 cups/480 g powdered sugarCombine the strawberries and powdered sugar in a blender. Blend 
until smooth. 
sugar glaze
4 cups/480 g powdered sugar
1 vanilla bean, split, seeds scraped out½ cup/120 ml waterSift the powdered sugar into a large bowl and add the vanilla seeds. 
Gradually whisk in the water, working out any lumps. 
peanut butter glaze
3 cups/360 g powdered sugar
2 tsp kosher salt1 cup/260 g creamy peanut butter½ cup/170 g honey½ cup/120 g whole milkSift the powdered sugar and salt into a large mixing bowl. With a 
wooden spoon, stir in the peanut butter and honey and work out any lumps. Gradually stir or whisk in the milk.fried stuff  / 181It took me a long time to ﬁgure out how to make a good cake doughnut—I’m almost 
embarrassed to say how long. I found the two most important things to be almost undermixing your batter and the addition of cream cheese.
During the winter we also make a spiced version of these. Simply add 2 tsp cinna-
mon, 1 tsp nutmeg, ½ tsp cloves, and ¼ tsp ginger to the batter. When the doughnuts are done, coat them in a mixture of 2 cups/400 g sugar, 1½ tsp cinnamon, ⅛ tsp nut-meg, ⅛ tsp cloves, ⅛ tsp ginger, and ⅛ tsp salt.
These are also great glazed with Vanilla Glaze (page 178) or Sugar Glaze (page 179).
chocolate-glazed cake doughnuts
MAKES 10 LARGE DOUGHNUTS  AND 16 DOUGHNUT HOLES
BATTER
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter, cubed, 
at room temperature
5 tbsp/65 g granulated sugar5 tbsp/70 g brown sugar1 tsp kosher salt1 egg1 egg yolk3 tbsp canola oil1 tbsp vanilla extract1 tbsp maple syrup1½ cups/190 g all-purpose ﬂour1¼ cups/150 g whole-wheat ﬂour¾ cup/100 g pastry ﬂour1½ tsp baking powder1 tsp baking soda5 tbsp/70 g cream cheese¼ cup/60 ml buttermilk
Canola oil for frying
GLAZE
½ cup/60 g powdered sugar
¼ cup/60 ml heavy cream1½ tbsp unsalted butter, cubed2 cups/340 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao
3 tbsp honey⅛ tsp kosher salt
Cacao nibs for sprinkling1. T o make the batter: In a stand mixer ﬁtted with the paddle attach-
ment, cream the butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and salt. Add the egg and egg yolk and mix until incorporated. Add the canola oil, vanilla, and maple syrup and mix until combined. Add the all- purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, pastry ﬂour, baking  powder, baking soda, cream cheese, and buttermilk and mix until just barely incorporated.
2. Dump onto a ﬂoured surface and ﬂatten to a ¾-in/2-cm thickness. 
Using a 2½-in/6-cm round cutter, cut 10 rounds and transfer to a lightly ﬂoured sheet pan. Using a ½-in/12-mm cutter, cut a small hole in each round and place them on the sheet pan, too. Press the scraps together, re-roll once, and cut more rounds. After that, throw away any scraps.
3. Wrap the rounds tightly in plastic and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, 
or overnight.
4. Heat 3 in/7.5 cm canola oil to 400°F/200°C in a Dutch oven or 
counter top fryer.
5. Place each doughnut onto a spider, or other long-handled skimmer, 
and carefully lower it into the oil. Working in batches, fry three to four doughnuts at a time, until they are a deep golden brown, about 45 seconds per side. Then fry the holes all at once, until golden. Allow to cool slightly on a cooling rack while you make the glaze.
6. T o make the glaze: Sift the powdered sugar into a medium bowl. Add  
the cream and stir to combine. Add the butter, chocolate, honey,  and salt. Create a double boiler by placing the bowl over a medium saucepan of hot water and heat the mixture over medium-low heat,  stirring to combine, until everything is melted. 
7. Immediately dip the top half of each doughnut in the glaze, sprinkle 
with cacao nibs, and serve.
Doughnuts keep well for only a few hours.182 / huckleberryI grew up loving beignets. There was a place in the bowling alley by my house called 
Café Beignet, where every table started their meal with a huge basket of them. I vividly remember the beignets being so hot you’d pull your hand away after touching one, but you would immediately go back, ﬁghting through a slight ﬁnger burn, and pop a hot one in your mouth. My family was always amazed at my ability, even back then, to eat burning-hot things. 
These should be copiously dusted in powdered sugar. They’re messy, so don’t eat 
them when you have your best clothes on and please enjoy licking the powdered sugar off your ﬁngers.
powdered sugar beignets
MAKES 45 BEIGNETS
1⅔ cups/230 g bread ﬂour
½ cup/70 g pastry ﬂour, sifted½ cup/120 ml water½ cup + 2 tbsp/150 ml whole milk1 cup/225 g unsalted butter, cubed2 tsp sugar1½ tsp kosher salt1 vanilla bean, split and seeds  
scraped out
9 eggsCanola oil for fryingPowdered sugar for coating1. Combine the bread ﬂour and pastry ﬂour in a medium bowl and 
set aside.
2. In a large saucepan, heat the water, milk, butter, sugar, salt, and 
vanilla seeds over medium-high heat. Bring to a boil, whisking occasionally. Add the ﬂour mixture and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon until a shiny paste, free of lumps, forms, about 3 minutes.
3. Transfer the batter to the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the 
paddle attachment and mix on medium-low speed. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue mixing on medium speed until the batter cools to a warm room temperature.
4. Meanwhile, in a Dutch oven or countertop fryer, heat 3 in/7.5 cm 
canola oil to 375°F/190°C.
5. Using a soup spoon, scoop up 2 to 2½ tbsp of batter and ease it 
into the hot oil using another spoon. Don’t crowd the pot. Fry in batches of four to eight depending on the size of your pot. Fry for about 5 minutes, agitating and ﬂipping the beignets so they cook evenly. If any of the beignets ﬁll with air and don’t want to ﬂip, use a spider, or other long-handled skimmer, to hold them under the oil for about 30 seconds. Repeat as needed until you can ﬂip and fry them like the others.
6. You should see the beignets expand once almost right away and 
you might think they’re ready soon after that, but they’re not. They need to expand a second time, inﬂating so much that they tear on one side. After that second inﬂation, continue to brown them well. Remember, this is a wet, eggy dough and it really needs to cook! Once you get that double expansion and achieve a deep, dark color, only then are they ready to come out of the oil.
7. Transfer to a bowl lined with paper towels to drain any excess 
oil, then coat with powdered sugar. Serve hot! Continue frying in batches, but serve each batch moments after it comes out—don’t wait to serve them!
These do not keep well at all—but why should they.184 / huckleberryThere’s a great restaurant in San Francisco called Frances that makes something like 
this for dinner. It made me realize that savory doughnuts are fun to eat at any time of day, especially if you’re drinking a glass of Champagne or Prosecco while doing so. This is another one of those recipes that you can play with: add ham, bacon, more spice, lots more herbs, etc. And, like almost everything in this chapter, eat these hot!
black pepper beignets
MAKES 20 BEIGNETS
1 cup/140 g bread ﬂour
¼ cup/35 g pastry ﬂour¾ cup/180 ml water¼ cup/60 ml whole milk½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g unsalted butter, 
cubed
1 tsp sugar1¼ tsp kosher salt5 eggs1 cup + 2 tbsp/130 g grated Gruyère1½ tsp freshly ground black pepper¼ tsp cayenne pepperCanola oil for fryingFleur de sel for tossingChopped fresh parsley for sprinkling1. Combine the bread ﬂour and pastry ﬂour in a medium bowl and 
set aside.
2. In a large saucepan, heat the water, milk, butter, sugar, and salt over 
medium-high heat. Bring to a boil, whisking occasionally. Add the ﬂour mixture and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon until a shiny paste, free of lumps, forms, about 3 minutes.
3. Transfer the batter to the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the 
paddle attachment and mix on medium-low speed. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue mixing on medium speed until the batter cools to a warm room temperature. Add the Gruyère, black pepper, and cayenne and mix for 1 minute longer.
4. Meanwhile, in a Dutch oven or countertop fryer, heat 3 in/7.5 cm 
canola oil to 375°F/190°C.
5. Using a soup spoon, scoop up 2 to 2½ tbsp of batter and ease it into 
the hot oil using another spoon. Don’t crowd the pot. Fry in batches of four to eight depending on the size of your pot. Fry for about 5 minutes, agitating and ﬂipping the beignets so they cook evenly. If any of the beignets ﬁll with air and don’t want to ﬂip, use a spider, or other long-handled skimmer, to hold them under the oil for about 30 seconds. Repeat as needed until you can ﬂip and fry them just like the others.
6. You should see the beignets expand once almost right away and 
you might think they’re ready soon after that, but they’re not. They need to expand a second time, inﬂating so much that they tear on one side. After that second pop, continue to brown them well. Remember, this is a wet, eggy dough and it really needs to cook! Once you get that double expansion and achieve a deep, dark color, only then are they ready to come out of the oil.
7. Transfer to a bowl lined with paper towels to drain any excess oil; 
then toss with ﬂeur de sel and sprinkle with parsley. Serve hot!
These do not keep well, but you won ’t need them to.fried stuff  / 185Fritters wait for no man. When they are ready they must be eaten right away. This is 
not the kind of thing you can set out in a bowl as part of a beautiful pastry display, for your guests to slowly enjoy. When you make these, everyone should be standing 
around looking over your shoulder, sipping mimosas, and waiting for the next batch to come out so they can quickly shove them into their mouths. It’s way more fun 
that way anyway.
lemon ricotta fritters
MAKES 18 TO 20 FRITTERS
Canola oil for frying
2 eggs, separated½ cup/125 g ricottaZest of 2 lemons⅓ cup/80 ml whole milk1 cup/130 g all-purpose ﬂour5 tsp sugar¾ tsp kosher salt½ tsp baking powder2 tbsp unsalted butter, meltedPowdered sugar for sprinkling1. In a Dutch oven or countertop fryer, heat 3 in/7.5 cm canola oil to 
375°F/190°C.
2. Whisk together the egg yolks, ricotta, lemon zest, and milk in a 
small bowl.
3. In medium bowl, whisk together the ﬂour, sugar, salt, and baking 
powder.
4. In the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted with the whisk attachment, whisk 
the egg whites on high speed until soft peaks form, 3 to 4 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, add the egg yolk mixture to the ﬂour mixture, followed 
by the melted butter. Stir until just combined. Gently fold in the egg whites.
6. Using a soup spoon, scoop up 2 to 2½ tbsp of batter and ease it into 
the hot oil using another spoon. Fry in batches until golden brown, 5 to 6 minutes. 
7. Allow to cool just slightly on a cooling rack, then sprinkle with pow-
dered sugar. Serve hot!
These do not keep well at all, so don ’t ask them to. Eat immediately.8 A.M.
pancakesThe doors have just opened and the pancake police 
is here, my dad, Stephen Nathan. He orders his pancakes then saunters right into the kitchen, hugs me, kisses my forehead, and tells me how much he wishes he could stay here and work with me today. I laugh, knowing he probably has ten meetings lined up and his own set of problems running a successful tele vision show, but I also know that he really means it. “I wish you could stay, too, Dad,” I say, and then run off to pull out another batch of coffee cake from the oven.
My dad was my ﬁrst ofﬁcial line cook when I started 
Saturday Morning Breakfast at Rustic Canyon. He came in every Saturday morning at 6 a.m. to prep ingredients for his two signature dishes: pancakes and frittatas. He certainly wasn’t my fastest cook, but he has a great sense of taste and put a ton of love into every dish he made, which frankly I would take over speed any day. I used to want to kill him when he would make and then immediately run an order of pancakes out himself before a table of six had any of their other food close to being ready. I had to forgive him because I understood that he was so excited to make it and that it truly killed him to see a delicious plate of food wait an extra second before someone was enjoying it. Somehow he didn’t ﬁnd it ironic when he’d run back into the kitchen and tell us, “They’re waiting on the rest of their food? Come on guys!”My dad did not have the best kitchen timing, but 
every person who had his pancakes got to feel the love and attention to detail that he and my mom taught me growing up. They showed me that the way a meal is prepared can be a work of art and of love, and that the love comes from caring for the food and the process of making it. For my mom this was metic-ulously picking out our fruits and vegetables at the farmers’ market, and for my dad it was spending his entire day off in the kitchen making Sunday Sauce because he simply thought it was fun and he knew how much we’d love it once it was ready.
Before I took the job at Rustic Canyon, I accepted a 
job offer at a much more prestigious restaurant than my soon-to-be husband’s six-month-old startup. My parents were so happy and proud that I would be the next in line at this well-regarded place that had spawned so many famous cooks. Then I interviewed at Rustic and met Josh. Afterward, he called me every hour trying to convince me to take a chance on this heartfelt new kid on the block, and eventually I was sold. I called my parents crying, afraid they’d be disappointed that I was turning down the famous place and following my heart. But, of course, they supported me completely, reminding me that fol-lowing my heart is all they have ever hoped for me.
I turn to Norberto as he begins to pour my dad’s 
pancakes onto the griddle, “Super VIP . That griddle better be hot. It’s got to be perfect, please.”188 / huckleberryMy father used to make these almost every weekend when I was growing up, and 
then he proudly made them every weekend for Saturday Morning Breakfast at Rustic  Canyon. They’re so simple and so delicious and the perfect example of why we say color is ﬂavor. If these pancakes aren’t done on a super-hot griddle and they don’t get that deep brown color, they become an entirely different, sadder animal. So please, cook these properly and make my Dad proud. Serve with butter and maple syrup or yogurt and fruit.
my dad’s pancakes
MAKES ABOUT 12 PANCAKES
1 vanilla bean or 1½ tbsp vanilla extract
2 cups/480 ml whole milk2 cups/250 g all-purpose ﬂour1 tbsp baking powder4 tsp sugar1¼ tsp kosher salt1 cup/220 g unsalted butter, melted4 eggs, separated1. If using the vanilla bean, split lengthwise, scrape the seeds into the 
milk, and toss the pod in, too. Bring to a boil, whisking occasionally to help break up the vanilla bean. Allow to cool, or refrigerate over-night. Discard the pod before using.
2. Place the ﬂour, baking powder, sugar, and salt in a large bowl. Add 
the butter, egg yolks, and vanilla milk (or milk and vanilla extract). Whisk to combine.
3. In a separate bowl, whip the egg whites to soft peaks with an electric 
beater on medium-high speed, 3 to 4 minutes. Fold the whites into the batter.
4. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, preheat 
a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface.
5. Drop ½ cup/120 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles 
set on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.190 / huckleberryThese pancakes are both satisfying and decadent; two qualities that can be hard to 
come by when you’re eating gluten-free and  vegan. My family and I eat these often 
and never feel deprived. Feel free to use different fruits in the compote and substitute homemade Almond Milk (page 206) for the coconut milk.
vegan gluten-free pancakes  
with maple blueberry compote
MAKES ABOUT 12 PANCAKES
COMPOTE
1 cup/150 g fresh blueberries
3 tbsp maple syrup
BATTER
1½ cups/125 g Huckleberry Gluten-Free 
Flour Mix (page 55)
¼ cup/20 g almond ﬂour¼ cup/20 g cornmeal1½ tsp baking powder1½ tsp baking soda2 tbsp ﬂax seed meal2 tsp chia seeds or poppy seeds1½ tsp kosher salt½ tsp cinnamon2¼ cups/540 ml coconut milk½ cup + 2 tbsp/150 ml canola oil¼ cup/60 ml maple syrup1 tbsp vanilla extract1. T o make the compote: Combine the blueberries and maple syrup in 
a small saucepan over medium-high heat until the berries start to burst a little. Set aside over low heat.
2. T o make the batter: Combine the ﬂour mix, almond ﬂour, cornmeal, 
baking powder, baking soda, ﬂax seed meal, chia seeds, salt, and cinnamon in a large bowl.
3. Add the coconut milk, canola oil, maple syrup, and vanilla to the dry 
ingredients and whisk to combine.
4. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, preheat 
a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface.
5. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles set 
on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot, with a big spoonful of warm compote right on top. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.pancakes  / 191These are my family’s absolute favorite pancakes. Every house has its go-to pancake 
recipe, and this is ours. I love all the grains and I ﬁnd these keep you fuller and more satisﬁed for way longer then most pancakes.
If you don’t have all these grains and ﬂours on hand, don’t let that stop you. Just 
substitute any one for another and in the process create your own special family recipe.
These pancakes are delicious with butter and maple syrup or yogurt and fruit.
multigrain pancakes
MAKES ABOUT 12 PANCAKES
½ cup + 2 tbsp/80 g cornmeal
⅓ cup/35 g rye ﬂour¼ cup/30 g all-purpose ﬂour¼ cup/30 g whole-wheat ﬂour¼ cup/25 g oat ﬂour4 tsp rolled oats2 tsp ﬂax seed meal or wheat germ1 tsp chia seeds or poppy seeds2 tbsp + 2 tsp/35 g brown sugar1 tsp baking soda1 tsp kosher salt2 cup + 4 tsp/500 ml buttermilk6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter,  
melted and cooled
2 eggs3 tbsp + 2 tsp/25 g grated Cheddar1. Put the cornmeal, rye ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, 
oat ﬂour, rolled oats, ﬂax seed meal, chia seeds, brown sugar, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl. Add the buttermilk, melted butter, eggs, and Cheddar and whisk to combine.
2. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, preheat 
a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface.
3. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles set 
on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. These should cook quickly. Serve immediately, while hot.
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.pancakes  / 193Occasionally I make something I love so much that I literally want to eat it every day, 
and that’s  how I feel about these. I like them as straightforward pancakes cooked on 
a griddle, but they’re also really good as a large baked pancake. Pour all the batter into a buttered cast-iron skillet, bake at 450°F/230°C for about 15 minutes, and serve immediately straight from the skillet slathered with butter and maple syrup. It’s a fun way to eat a pancake with a group.
These should be your go-to breakfast anytime you have leftover rice. And if you’re 
not up for cooking quinoa, you can always use all brown rice, but I will say if you choose  to use just quinoa, the ﬂavor can be a little overpowering.
It is mandatory to serve these with maple syrup, but, honestly, you don’t even need 
butter these pancakes are so good.
brown rice quinoa pancakes
MAKES ABOUT 15 PANCAKES
½ cup/60 g whole-wheat ﬂour
5 tbsp/50 g cornmeal2 tbsp rolled oats1 tbsp ﬂax seed meal or wheat germ2 tsp chia seeds or poppy seeds1 tbsp millet2 tbsp brown sugar1½ tsp baking soda1 tsp kosher salt2 cups/480 ml buttermilk½ cup/110 g unsalted butter, melted3 eggs1¼ cups/200 g cooked brown or 
wild rice
½ cup/100 g cooked quinoa1. Put the whole-wheat ﬂour, cornmeal, rolled oats, ﬂax seed meal, 
chia seeds, millet, brown sugar, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl. Add the buttermilk, melted butter, and eggs and whisk to combine. Stir in the rice and quinoa.
2. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, pre-
heat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface. But once heated, lower the heat to medium to prevent burning.
3. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles set 
on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot.
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.194 / huckleberryLet’s talk bananas. Do not fear the black-spotted, super-soft banana—the uglier, 
the better. Spritely and green will be starchy and ﬂavorless: don’t use those. If you’re worried that your bananas are not ripening fast enough, seal them in a brown paper bag and leave them in a warm spot in your kitchen to speed up their demise to ugly deliciousness.
This batter can be a bit heavy, so I ﬁnd these pancakes cook better and more 
evenly when done in silver dollars. Also, set them over low heat to make sure they don’t burn before they’re cooked through. Slow and low is the way to go with these  little guys.
For a gluten-free version, substitute brown rice ﬂour for the whole-wheat. For a 
whole-grain version, add ﬂax seeds, chia seeds, and/or poppy seeds.
T op with butter and syrup or, if you’re feeling particularly inspired, with bananas 
warmed in maple syrup.
banana chocolate silver dollars
MAKES ABOUT 25 SMALL PANCAKES
¼ cup/15 g rolled oats
½ cup/50 g oat ﬂour¼ cup + 2 tbsp/45 g all-purpose ﬂour2 tbsp whole-wheat ﬂour2 tbsp sugar1 tsp baking soda1 tsp baking powder¾ tsp kosher salt½ cup/120 ml whole milk5 tbsp/70 g unsalted butter,  
melted and cooled
1 egg1 tbsp vanilla extract3 bananas; 2 mashed, 1 coarsely 
chopped
Heaping ½ cup/85 g coarsely chopped 
dark chocolate, 60 to 70% cacao
½ cup/60 g ﬁnely chopped walnuts, 
toasted1. Put the rolled oats, oat ﬂour, all-purpose ﬂour, whole-wheat ﬂour, 
sugar, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Add the milk, melted butter, egg, and vanilla. Whisk to combine. Fold in the mashed and chopped bananas, chocolate, and walnuts.
2. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, pre-
heat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface. But once heated, lower the heat to medium-low to prevent burning.
3. Drop about 2 tbsp of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles set 
on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.pancakes  / 195These pancakes smell like pure heaven the moment they touch the griddle. The apples  
and cinnamon warm your house faster than any heater can. One of my favorite ingre-dients to add to any sweet pancakes is grated Cheddar cheese. It adds a savory depth that is so delicious and they still work perfectly covered with butter and maple syrup.  I left that out of this recipe for simplicity, but if you want to try it, stir 3 to 4 tbsp grated Cheddar into the batter with the cooked apples and you will not be disappointed. If you  have any caramel sauce lying around, you can turn these ﬂapjacks into an incredibly decadent breakfast.
apple cinnamon flapjacks
MAKES ABOUT 12 FLAPJACKS
6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butter
2 small apples, unpeeled and diced, 
anything but Fuji
½ tsp ground cinnamonKosher salt1 cup/120 g whole-wheat ﬂour½ cup/80 g cornmeal3 tbsp sugar½ tsp baking powder½ tsp baking soda1 cup + 2 tbsp/270 ml whole milk½ cup/120 ml plain whole-milk yogurt1 egg2 tbsp canola oil1 tsp vanilla extract1. Melt the butter over medium heat in a medium sauté pan. Add the 
apples, cinnamon, and a pinch of salt and sauté until soft but not browned. Set aside.
2. Put the whole-wheat ﬂour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder, baking 
soda, and ½ tsp salt in a large bowl and whisk to combine.
3. In a separate bowl, combine the milk, yogurt, egg, canola oil, and 
vanilla and whisk to combine.
4. With a wooden spoon, stir the wet mixture into the dry ingredients. 
Stir in the cooked apples.
5. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, 
preheat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface.
6. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles 
set on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.196 / huckleberryI grew up eating blintzes at old dark Los Angeles delis with my grandparents. In fact, 
those are still some of my favorite food memories. These pancakes remind me of those blintzes. I often wish my Grandma Evelyn and Grandpa Irving were alive to see Huckleberry and taste my cooking. They would have gotten a real kick out of it, and let everyone within earshot know all about it. “Excuse me, she’s our granddaughter!” they’d yell as they made their way to a table. And man, oh man, would they have loved being able to skip the line and get free food.
Serve these cakes with butter and maple syrup or yogurt, fruit, or homemade jam.
ricotta griddlecakes
MAKES ABOUT 14 GRIDDLECAKES
1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/240 g all-purpose ﬂour
3 tbsp granulated sugar1 tbsp brown sugar1½ tsp baking powder1 tsp kosher salt3 eggs, separated¾ cup/170 g ricotta1¾ cups + 2 tbsp/450 ml whole milk1 tbsp vanilla extract1. Put the ﬂour, granulated sugar, brown sugar, baking powder, and 
salt in a large bowl. Add the eggs yolks, ricotta, milk, and vanilla and whisk to combine.
2. In a separate bowl, whip the egg whites to soft peaks with an elec-
tric beater on high speed for 3 to 4 minutes. Fold the whites into the batter.
3. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, 
preheat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface.
4. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles set 
on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. Serve immediately, while hot. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.pancakes  / 197I have tried to change the name of these to Cornmeal Pancakes many times, but Laurel  
refuses to allow it. She gets far too much enjoyment from hearing our customers order  “hoecakes.”
They are a perfect balance between butter, salt, honey, and cornmeal. But you can 
also make this batter both savory and sweet by adding ¼ cup/30 g grated Cheddar cheese. Or go completely savory and toss in sautéed broccoli, mushrooms, or whatever  veggies you ﬁnd kicking around your fridge that morning.
They’re delicious served with butter and honey or maple syrup and fresh 
blueberries.
laurel’s hoecakes
MAKES ABOUT 12 HOECAKES
1½ cups/240 g cornmeal
½ cup/60 g all-purpose ﬂour1 tbsp baking powder1½ tsp kosher salt2 tbsp honey3 tbsp maple syrup¾ cup/180 ml whole milk¼ cup/60 ml buttermilk½ cup/110 g unsalted butter,  
melted and slightly cooled
2 eggs2 ears fresh corn, grated1. Put the cornmeal, all-purpose ﬂour, baking powder, and salt in a 
large bowl. Add the honey, maple syrup, milk, buttermilk, melted butter, eggs, and corn. Whisk to combine.
2. About 5 minutes before you’re ready to make the pancakes, 
preheat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium-high heat; the griddle is ready when a few droplets of water sizzle and dance across the surface. But once heated, lower the heat to medium to prevent burning.
3. Drop ⅓ cup/80 ml of batter onto the hot griddle. When bubbles 
set on the surface of the pancake and the bottom is golden, ﬂip and cook for about 1 minute longer. They should cook quickly. Serve immediately, while hot. 
These are best the moment they leave the griddle.198 / huckleberryMake this your let-your-tired-wife-sleep-in surprise. They’re simple to make but 
appear very time-consuming and thoughtful. You’ll get major brownie points here,  I promise.
Normally, I would say substitute whatever fruit you like for the sauce, but the sour-
ness of the cranberries is crucial to cutting the sweetness of the brown sugar and rounding out this dish.
I love to serve this French toast with whipped cream, salty bacon, and nice runny 
eggs. Now go show her how great you are!
vanilla french toast with  
brown sugar–cranberry sauce
SERVES 3
SAUCE
½ cup + 2 tbsp/140 g brown sugar
2 tbsp water½ tsp kosher salt¼ cup/60 ml heavy cream6 tbsp/85 g unsalted butterPeel of 1 orange, cut into 4 long pieces2 cups/300 g frozen or fresh 
cranberries, whole
FRENCH TOAST
6 eggs
¾ cup/180 ml heavy cream1½ tbsp sugar¼ tsp vanilla extract¼ tsp kosher salt6 slices Brioche (page 105) or  
store-bought challah, cut  1 in/2.5 cm thick1. T o make the sauce: In a saucepan over high heat, cook the brown 
sugar, water, and salt until it bubbles furiously, 1 to 2 minutes. Turn off the heat and stir in the cream, butter, and orange peel. Then return to the heat and cook 1 minute longer. Add the cranberries and set aside.
2. T o make the French toast: Whisk together the eggs, cream, sugar, 
vanilla, and salt in a large bowl. Soak the sliced bread in the custard until saturated but not falling apart, 1 to 2 minutes.
3. Preheat a greased griddle or large skillet over medium heat. Cook 
the French toast on each side until nice and brown.
4. While the French toast cooks, return the sauce to the stove. Cook 
over medium heat until heated through, about 3 minutes.
5. Plate the French toast immediately and pour two giant spoonfuls of 
the sauce over the top. Serve while good and hot.
The French toast is best the moment it leaves the griddle; the sauce keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 4 days.8:30 A.M.
cerealsThe place is in full swing, line out the door, down the 
ramp, almost to the parking lot. It’s Saturday—we do this every week—and we’re ready.
The expediter calls out tickets to the kitchen as fast 
as she can. “Order ﬁre! One egg sandwich, easy . . . one green eggs and ham, no ham . . . one granola add berries . . .” One of the cooks calls me over to tell me he’s out of granola. “Really, you’re realizing this now or just remembering to tell me? Either way this is very, very annoying.” I have steam coming off me like a cartoon character. Just at that moment my sleeping beauty of a morning baker walks in four hours late, smiling and looking like somehow I will think this is all very cute, “Sorrrrrrrry, it won’t happen—” I cut her off, “Don’t smile at me ever again. Make granola!” My cook seems pleased that I have found someone who screwed up worse than he did.
I yell over to the girl in front of the oven and tell her 
to turn it down and open the door so it can cool down enough to make the granola. Just then I turn around and bump right into my extremely tall husband’s chest, “Hi, baby, having a rough morning?” he says with an understanding smirk.He knows me better than I know myself and I rarely 
have to explain to him what’s going on with me. He hands me a pint glass from home ﬁlled with a dark, and very thick, green liquid—his latest “healthy” smoothie creation. We’re trying to get pregnant and the doctor told me to eat better and lead a less stressful lifestyle. I’m trying to follow at least some of this advice, but the smoothie looks foul at this moment and I’m feeling stressed.
People often ask me what it’s like to work with my 
husband: It’s challenging and annoying, but it’s the best thing ever and I couldn’t imagine it any other way. Many relationships implode when couples work together, but for me it creates the safe and loving atmosphere I need to thrive. Over the years, we have slowly learned not to take it all so personally and to simply, without too many questions, have each  other’s backs. But just because he has my back does not mean this smoothie looks appetizing right now, but man, oh man, do I want a baby. I close my eyes and guzzle it down.202 / huckleberryThere are a thousand variations when making granola, so mix in anything you like. 
Every house should have its own recipe. I like mine not too sweet, but if you like yours sweeter, add more honey to this recipe. If your family likes coconut, throw in sweet-ened toasted coconut. For a chocolate granola, omit the cinnamon, add an additional ½ tsp salt, use only toasted almonds, and instead of dried fruit toss in ¾ cup/100 g chopped dark chocolate. For a spiced granola, double the cinnamon and add ¼ tsp nutmeg, ¼ tsp ginger, and ¼ tsp cloves.
I always make sure we have a batch of granola around the house. My son takes it to 
the park, my husband takes it on runs, and I love it over ice cream.
granola
SERVES 4
4 cups/200 g rolled oats,  
not quick-cooking
½ cup/110 g unsalted butter, melted½ cup/170 g honey1 tsp kosher salt⅛ tsp ground cinnamon (optional)1 cup/150 g mixed toasted nuts, like 
walnuts, almonds, pecans, pumpkin seeds, hazelnuts, pistachios
1 cup/170 g mixed dried fruit, like  
sliced apricots, sour cherries, cranberries, currants, raisins1. Preheat your oven to 325°F/165°C.
2. In a large bowl, toss together the rolled oats, melted butter, honey, 
salt, and cinnamon.
3. Spread the mixture on a sheet pan and bake until golden, about  
25 minutes. Add the nuts and bake 5 minutes longer. Allow to cool. T oss with the dried fruit.
This keeps well, in an airtight container , at room temperature, for up to 2 weeks.cereals  / 205This is a very traditional way to make muesli and it’s deﬁnitely the one I prefer. All the 
ingredients are mixed together the night before so the grains soften and the ﬂavors come together to make a very creamy, earthy, sweet mixture. This recipe is incredibly versatile. You can use any fruit you like in any combination you wish. Feel free to trade out the grated apples for grated peaches, nectarines, or pears, or simply mix in whole blueberries and sliced strawberries. If you don’t have dates, you can always use prunes or dried ﬁgs. Occasionally, I’ll add toasted almonds or walnuts to the mix. Please make sure to grind the ﬂax seeds, because whole ﬂax seeds get very slimy after soaking.
muesli
SERVES 4 TO 6
3 cups/720 ml whole milk
2 cups/480 ml plain whole yogurt2 apples, skin on, grated1 ripe banana, sliced¾ cup/125 g golden raisins9 tbsp/110 g cracked wheat or bulgur9 tbsp/110 g wheat germ, toasted9 tbsp/50 g rolled oats, toasted¼ cup/85 g honey¼ cup/35 g chopped dates 2 tbsp millet2 tbsp ﬂax seeds, ground,  
or 3¾ tbsp ﬂax seed meal
1 tbsp chia seeds or poppy seeds1 pinch kosher saltSeasonal fresh fruit for topping1. Stir together the milk, yogurt, apples, banana, raisins, cracked 
wheat, wheat germ, rolled oats, honey, dates, millet, ﬂax seeds, chia seeds, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Cover tightly and refrigerate overnight.
2. In the morning, mound the mixture into bowls and top with sliced, 
chopped, or whole seasonal fruit.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for 2 or 3 days.206 / huckleberryThough soaking the oats is not absolutely necessary, it does makes the oatmeal cook 
much faster. If you opt for store-bought almond milk, you’ll have to adjust the sweet-ness of this recipe depending on the sweetness of your almond milk. If you prefer a sweeter  oatmeal, slice 2 or 3 pitted dates, soak them with the oat mixture, and cook all together or just add more honey.
steel-cut oats with  
homemade almond milk
SERVES 2
2½ cups/600 ml Almond Milk 
(recipe follows)
1 large pinch kosher salt½ cup/100 g steel-cut oats1 cinnamon stick or 1 large pinch 
cinnamon
2 tbsp honey2 tbsp sliced almonds, toastedDAY ONE
1. Combine the almond milk, salt, steel-cut oats, and cinnamon in a 
small bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.
DAY TWO
2. In the morning, cook the oat mixture in a small saucepan over 
medium heat until thickened, about 10 minutes. Portion into two bowls and top with honey and toasted almonds.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days. Add a little almond milk or water when reheating.
Josh loves to make shakes with almond milk in the morning, we put it in our coffee and tea, we use it to make oatmeal, and we love to make hot chocolate with it as well. You can use it anywhere you would think to use regular milk. I strongly recommend raw whole almonds with the skins on because they give it a much richer ﬂavor. 
almond milk
MAKES 3 CUPS/720 ML
¾ cup/100 g raw almonds, whole, 
skin on 
4 dates, pitted1 vanilla bean (optional)½ tsp kosher salt1. Combine the almonds, dates, and 1 cup/240 ml cold water. Refrig-
erate overnight. 
2. Strain the mixture, discarding the water.3. If using the vanilla bean, split lengthwise and scrape the seeds 
into a blender. Set the scraped pod aside. Add the almond mixture, salt, and 3½ cups/830 ml cold water. Blend until smooth, about two minutes. 
4. Strain the mixture through a cheesecloth or ﬁne-mesh strainer into a 
large canning jar. Add the vanilla pod, then refrigerate until needed. 
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 4 days. It will separate as it sits, but just shake it back together .cereals  / 207It’s very rare to have 40 minutes to make a weekday breakfast for yourself. If you don’t 
have that kind of time in the morning, prepare this porridge the night before; then just reheat with a little additional water and it will be perfect. This dish is the perfect jump-start to a cold morning. It’s so warming and soul-satisfying it’ll give you that added boost you need to go out and greet the day. Feel free to play with different dried fruits in place of the raisins or switch out the maple syrup for honey or agave. Basically, ﬁgure  out the combination that makes you feel loved in the morning and make it that way.
cinnamon-sugar bulgur porridge
SERVES 2 OR 3
PORRIDGE
3 cups/710 ml water
¾ cup/150 g bulgur wheat2 tbsp millet1 tbsp ﬂax seed meal1 tbsp chia seeds or poppy seeds1 tbsp raisins, chopped2 tsp maple syrup½ tbsp unsalted butter½ tsp kosher salt
TOPPING
3 tbsp sugar¼ tsp ground cinnamon1. T o make the porridge: Combine the water, bulgur wheat, millet, 
ﬂax seed meal, chia seeds, raisins, maple syrup, butter, and salt in a medium saucepan and simmer over medium heat until the bulgur is cooked through and the mixture is nice and creamy, about 15 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, make the topping: Mix the sugar and cinnamon in a 
small bowl and set aside.
3. Scoop the porridge into bowls and sprinkle liberally with the topping.
This keeps quite well, refrigerated, for up to 4 days. Add a little water 
when reheating.208 / huckleberryThis dish is simple to make but looks and tastes very exciting when it hits the 
table. I love it with blueberries, but it works just as well with red seedless grapes or blackberries because they get tender very quickly while still holding their shape. You can always pour plain cream over the top or serve with a dollop of unsweetened Whipped Cream (page 149), but it’s not necessary. If you want to make this more wintry, cook the farro with a cinnamon stick, or if you have a scraped vanilla pod lying around, add that while you cook the farro for another layer of ﬂavor.
hot farro porridge with  
blueberries and toasted walnuts
SERVES 2
1 cup/200 g farro
Kosher salt3 tbsp unsalted butter2 cups/480 ml water, plus 1 tbsp1 cup/150 g fresh blueberries2 tbsp brown sugar¾ cup/180 ml whole milk¼ cup/30 g walnuts,  
chopped and toasted1. In a small saucepan over high heat, toast the farro with ⅛ tsp salt 
and 2 tbsp of the butter, until slightly fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the 2 cups/480 ml water and reduce the heat to low. Simmer, uncov-ered, until the water cooks off, about 25 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a small sauté pan over medium-high heat, combine 
the remaining 1 tbsp butter, the blueberries, 1 tbsp of the brown sugar, a pinch of salt, and the 1 tbsp water. Quickly sauté until the blue berries are tender but not bursting, about 2 minutes.
3. When the water has cooked off, add the milk and remaining 1 tbsp 
brown sugar. Increase the heat to medium-high and simmer until the liquid is absorbed, 5 to 10 minutes.
4. Portion the farro into two bowls and top with cooked blueberries 
and toasted walnuts.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days. Add a little milk when reheating.210 / huckleberryIf you’re serving only two, I highly suggest making this whole porridge recipe anyway. 
Pour any leftovers onto a sheet pan, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate. It will set up ﬁrmly and you can cut it into squares or sticks. Lightly brush with olive oil and either roast in a 500°F/260°C oven, grill outside, or pan-fry in a little more oil. Cook until browned and crisp on the outside, but soft inside. Serve with sautéed mushrooms or spinach, lamb chops, Spicy T omato Jam (facing page), or, if you happen to be having a little man named Milo over, just plain ketchup will do.
corn porridge with strawberry  
compote and greek yogurt
SERVES 4 TO 6
3 ears corn
4 qt/3.8 L water, plus ¼ cup/60 ml 2½ cups/380 g fresh strawberries, 
quartered
4 tbsp unsalted butter3 tbsp brown sugarKosher salt1 cup/160 g cornmeal1 to 2 cups/240 to 480 ml Greek yogurt4 to 6 fresh sage leaves, ﬁnely chopped1. Begin 1 day ahead or ﬁrst thing in the morning by making a corn 
stock. Shave the kernels from the cobs and set aside. In a large saucepan, simmer the 4 qt/3.8 L water and the bare cobs, until reduced to 5 cups/1.2 L, about 1½ hours. Discard the cobs and set the stock aside.
2. Combine the strawberries, 2 tbsp of the butter, 1 tbsp of the brown 
sugar, a pinch of salt, and the ¼ cup/60 ml water in a medium saucepan and simmer over medium-high heat, covered, for 2 min-utes. Uncover and mash the strawberries. Continue cooking until the compote has thickened, stirring occasionally to keep it from burning, 1 to 2 minutes. Set aside.
3. In a medium saucepan, sauté the corn kernels in 1 tbsp butter over 
medium-high heat. Add the cornmeal and 1 tsp salt. Stir, lightly toasting, for 2 to 3 minutes. Whisk in 1 qt/960 ml of the corn stock. Bring to a boil, then reduce, whisking occasionally. Add the  remaining 1 tbsp butter and 2 tbsp brown sugar. Continue cooking until thick-ened, 1 to 2 minutes. (You can keep the porridge warm over low heat, stirring occasionally and adding the remaining 1 cup/240 ml stock, 2 to 3 tbsp every 10 minutes, as needed.)
4. Portion into bowls and top with a spoonful of the strawberry com-
pote, a big scoop of Greek yogurt, and the ﬁnely chopped sage.
The porridge and compote keep well, refrigerated, for up to 4 days. Reserve the extra 1 cup/240 ml corn stock for use in reheating the porridge.cereals  / 211I’m calling this jam but it could easily be a grown-up alternative to ketchup.
You can twist it a hundred different ways; add curry powder, spicy peppers, 
sweet peppers, beer. . . . Make it as crazy and interesting as you like. I chose to put cumin in this recipe because the ﬂavor goes with many recipes in this book.
Try it on any sandwich, with any of the frittatas, beside the Butter and Herb 
 Potatoes (page 172), or smeared on a biscuit. During the winter months, it’s a great alternative to sliced tomato on a BL T.
spicy tomato jam
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/130 G
2 lb/900 g large tomatoes,  
sliced into eighths or left whole
1½ cups/270 g cherry tomatoes2 tbsp sugar½ tsp kosher salt½ tsp ground cumin½ tsp chile ﬂakes1. Combine the tomatoes, cherry tomatoes, sugar, salt, cumin, and 
chile ﬂakes in a medium saucepan and cover with water by about ½ in/12 mm. Simmer over medium-high heat until more than half of the water has cooked off, 1½ to 2 hours.
2. Blend in a blender or food processor until smooth. Return to the 
stove and simmer over medium-high heat until thickened and cooked down to a little less than half, about 1½ hours. Refrigerate until needed.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.212 / huckleberryThe ﬁrst time I made this dish, my husband and I were in Big Sur early in our marriage, 
so this holds a special place in my heart. Obviously this is a breakfast book, but I must confess I’ve eaten this for dinner plenty of times and it’s incredibly satisfying. If you can’t ﬁnd spring onions, use yellow onions. Try shaved Brussels sprouts, collard greens, or sprouting broccoli instead of kale, and bacon or mushrooms instead of sausage. This can also be made with just about any grain, from brown rice to quinoa, so don’t feel you have to use barley.
I know for some the maple syrup might seem odd, but in its own sweet way it 
brings the dish together, so trust me, don’t leave it out. This recipe calls for veggie stock, but if you have a good homemade chicken or beef stock in your fridge, feel free to use that. This stock recipe is just enough for this dish, but when I make stock at home, I always make extra to freeze, so make a bigger batch of stock if you’re game, but keep in mind it may take a longer time to reduce.
barley porridge with  
spring onions, kale, and sausage
SERVES 4
VEGGIE STOCK
2 carrots, cut into 1-in/2.5 cm chunks
½ onion, rough chopped1 spring onion, green tops only2 garlic cloves1 bay leaf12 cups/2.8 L water
BARLEY PORRIDGE
½ onion, ﬁnely diced1 carrot, ﬁnely diced1 garlic clove, minced1½ tbsp chopped fresh savory1 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1¾ tsp kosher salt1 cup/200 g barley1 cup/240 ml white wine2 tbsp unsalted butter¼ cup/25 g grated ParmesanTOPPINGS
4 to 8 large raw breakfast sausages or 
your favorite sausage
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil2 spring onions, thinly sliced, white and 
light green parts only
½ tsp kosher salt4 cups/145 g chopped kale 1 pinch chile ﬂakes2 tbsp unsalted butter4 eggs4 to 6 tbsp/60 to 90 ml maple syrup
CONTINUED214 / huckleberryDAY ONE
1. T o make the veggie stock: Simmer the carrots, onion, spring onion, 
garlic, bay leaf, and water in a stock pot until reduced to 1 qt/960 ml  liquid, about 1½ hours. Remove from heat and bring to room temper-ature. Strain into a large bowl, pressing on the solids with a spoon  to extract the liquid. Discard the solids. Refrigerate until using, up to 1 week.
DAY TWO
2. T o make the porridge: In a medium saucepan, sauté the onion, carrot,  
garlic, and savory in the olive oil until beginning to soften, 5 to 8 min-utes. Add 1½ tsp of the salt and the barley. Sauté for 1 minute longer. Add the white wine and cook down by half.
3. When the wine in the porridge mixture is reduced, add the veggie 
stock, reduce the heat to medium-low, and simmer gently,  stirring occasionally, until the barley is cooked through and most of the liquid has been absorbed, about 45 minutes. Stir in the butter and Parmesan.
4. T o prepare the toppings: Preheat your oven to 400°F/200°C. Put the 
sausages on a sheet pan, toss with 1 tbsp of the olive oil, and roast until browned and cooked through. The cook time will depend on the size of your sausages, about 15 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan, heat the remaining 1 tbsp olive 
oil. Add the spring onions and the remaining ¼ tsp salt. Sauté until softened, about 5 minutes. Add the kale and chile ﬂakes. Sauté until wilted, about 3 minutes. Set aside.
6. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk,  discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 min-utes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs. Repeat with the remaining 2 eggs.
7. Spoon the barley into bowls, top with the kale-onion mixture, a 
 sausage or two, and a fried egg. Drizzle each serving with about  1 tbsp maple syrup.
This dish is best served immediately, but the components keep well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.cereals  / 215This is a grown-up chocolate breakfast—it’s not super-sweet and the mocha glaze is 
loaded with coffee. Despite that, it should be enjoyed with a tall glass of ice-cold milk. Make this for your special someone as a Valentine’s Day breakfast in bed or just as a fun treat on a cold Sunday morning.
warm chocolate rice pudding
SERVES 4
PUDDING
1 cup/200 g short grain white rice
¼ cup/50 g sugar½ tsp kosher salt2 tbsp Dutch process cocoa powder1 vanilla bean, split, seeds scraped out, 
or 2 tsp vanilla extract
4½ cups/1 L whole milk
GLAZE
¾ cup/125 g chopped dark chocolate, 
60 to 70% cacao
¼ cup + 2 tbsp/90 ml hot coffee
1 batch Whipped Cream (page 149)
3 tbsp cocoa nibs or chopped toasted 
hazelnuts (optional)1. T o make the pudding: In a small saucepan, whisk the rice, sugar, 
salt, cocoa powder, and vanilla to break up the cocoa powder and distribute the vanilla seeds. Add the milk and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally. Once boiling, immediately reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer, stirring regularly to keep the bottom from burning. Cook until the rice is soft and the mixture is thick and creamy, about 30 minutes.
2. Cover, remove from heat, and set aside while you make the glaze.3. T o make the glaze: Put the chocolate in a small bowl and pour the 
hot coffee over it. Allow to sit and melt for a couple of minutes, then stir until homogenous.
4. Spoon the pudding into bowls, drizzle with glaze, and top with 
whipped cream and cocoa nibs.
This is best the day it’s made but keeps, refrigerated, up to 3 days. Add a little milk when reheating.9 A.M.
sandwichesThe guys on the line have their heads down, full speed 
ahead. I’m in the front of the kitchen watching as the servers take people through the line and get their orders. I’m looking out at the people enjoying all our hard work when I overhear one customer ordering a fried egg sandwich, “I would like one egg poached and one egg scrambled.” I roll my eyes. Are you seri-ously asking for that on the same sandwich?! I watch in shock as the server turns around and starts to head into the kitchen to ask if we can accommodate this insane request. I say No as nicely as possible as the server enters the kitchen because it is an open kitchen and I don’t want to look like a jerk. I have a line of forty people and thirty-ﬁve tickets on my board, and I know if I even said yes to this for sure it would not come out as the woman has envisioned, and it’s not fair to throw this curveball at my line cooks. Not to mention that it’s simply an  annoying request and she should be ashamed that she asked for it!
On the average Saturday at Huckleberry, we have 
about a thousand different customers and three line guys, who have been with me since almost the beginning, making all the food. I’m not sure if it’s me, but for some reason Huckleberry attracts a very unique kind of line cook. Ours aren’t the kind of guys who stay out blowing lines of coke and drinking all night or check out the bodies of our various pastry girls and make comments. Our line guys are sweet, tough, talented, and sensitive. They put out hundreds of dishes each day seemingly unfazed by the stress of tickets piling up, server mistakes that they need to 
re-ﬁre, and people yelling at them from each direc-tion. Yet, every month I have to have a sit-down talk with one of them because their feelings were hurt that they weren’t consulted on where we moved the soup warmer. And they’re genuinely upset! Norberto has been with me the longest, and when he started off he was certainly not the fastest line cook, but everything he made was delicious and had tons of love and care behind it. Now he’s ahead of even the nastiest of rushes, and his food still comes out with love and care each time. These guys are our family.
I watch the server go back to tell the woman that 
she can’t have her crazy order “her way” and see the woman grow angrier and start to lay into the server. Then the server heads back, and before I can get out of the way I hear, “That woman in line would like to talk to you.”
“My pleasure,” I say as I drop my knife and head out 
to talk to her. My girls all crane their necks to see out of the kitchen, and I know that they’re thankful I didn’t take my knife with me. Laurel pretends to ﬁll pastries in front so she can get closer to my  impending rant. I know she loves and cherishes a good Zoe rant—and this one is going to be gold. Right as I’m just about to approach the woman, Joel swoops in. “Zoe, back to the kitchen, you know better than that. Let me handle this.” Intercepted! No rant and all our fun ruined. Sometimes I really hate that Joel is good at his job. At least my girls and I have a good laugh about what could have been.218 / huckleberryThis is another one of those things that we’ve been making since Saturday Morning 
Breakfasts at Rustic. It never changes because people wouldn’t stand for it, but between you and me, this would be awesome with a slice of fresh tomato in the height of summer.
It’s such a simple sandwich, so it has to be the best bacon and organic eggs, and it 
really does make a difference if you make the aioli from scratch. Everything has to be in balance. At Huckleberry, we make our own country bread, so please be sure to get your hands on some artisan bread for this sandwich.
huck’s fried egg sandwich
SERVES 4
12 to 16 slices thick-cut bacon
8 slices sourdough bread4 oz/115 g Gruyère, grated1 batch Aioli (page 224)4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter8 eggs3 cups/110 g arugulaFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C.
2. Arrange the bacon on a sheet pan and bake until golden brown, 
about 15 minutes.
3. Increase the oven temperature to 450°F/230°C and toast the bread. 
When the bread is mostly toasted, distribute the Gruyère on four of the slices and return them to the oven to melt, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove the four bare slices of bread and spread each with about 2 tbsp aioli and top with 3 or 4 slices of bacon. Remember to keep one eye on your cheesy bread in the oven. When the cheese is melted, remove the bread, slice in half, and set aside.
4. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
5. Slide the eggs onto a bacon-covered toast. T op with a handful of  
arugula and a sprinkle of ﬂeur de sel. Slice that half, being careful not  to slice into the yolk, before topping with the cheese-bread halves. (We cut the two sides of the sandwich separately to avoid breaking the yolks, which would spoil the fun of eating this sandwich.) Repeat for the remaining sandwiches, unless you have multiple pans going!
This is best eaten the moment it’s made.sandwiches  / 221If you’ve gone through the trouble of making Maple Bacon Biscuits, it’s mandatory  
to make at least one of these. Hence this recipe serves only one; but by all means mul-tiply this by as many as you want, and eat up. We run these as an off-the-menu special  at Huckleberry and most people don’t know about them; those who do, love them.
The hard thing about having a “secret” off-menu item and so many employees is 
that there is always mass confusion when it’s ordered. Everyone in the kitchen has a different idea of how it should be made. So here it is, once and for all, the way it was intended. If you come to Huckleberry and see it prepared differently, please let me know. Although, wedging fried chicken inside would not be a bad decision either.
egg huck mufﬁn
SERVES 1
3 slices bacon
2 eggs2 tsp heavy cream or crème fraîche1 big pinch kosher salt1 Maple Bacon Biscuit (page 60)1 tsp unsalted butterFleur de sel for toppingMaple syrup for drizzling1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C.
2. Arrange the bacon on a sheet pan and bake for about 15 minutes, 
until golden brown.
3. Increase the oven temperature to 400°F/205°C.4. In a small mixing bowl, whisk together the eggs, cream, and salt.5. T oss the biscuit in the oven to heat while you scramble the eggs. In 
a small sauté pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the eggs and scramble until soft-set.
6. Once heated, carefully slice the biscuit in half with a serrated knife. 
On the bottom half of the biscuit, layer half the bacon, then the scrambled eggs, followed by the remaining bacon. Drop the biscuit top on, drizzle it with a healthy dose of maple syrup, and dig in!
This does not keep, don ’t ask it to.sandwiches  / 223At about the same time as I began holding Saturday Morning Breakfast at Rustic, our  
friend, and former Rustic Canyon chef, Evan Funke, came in to take over the kitchen. He got a big kick out of the fact that the pastry chef of the place took over the restaurant  every weekend to run her own breakfast place. He loved my fresh-baked English mufﬁns  so much that he helped me create this dish, and we’ve been making it at Huckleberry ever since.
It’s quintessential Huck, because it’s simple, but everything is made from scratch 
in-house, which is what takes this simple dish to the next level.
I suggest you make a big batch of English mufﬁns and freeze a bunch. Then you 
can have this anytime you like.
green eggs and ham
SERVES 4
4 English Mufﬁns (page 102)
¾ cup/170 g unsalted butter,  
melted or at room temperature
4 oz/115 g thinly sliced prosciutto 8 eggs1 batch Pesto (page 225)4 cups/145 g arugulaFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
2. Fork-split the English mufﬁns, lightly butter both sides, and toast in 
the oven until nice and crispy, 5 to 10 minutes.
3. Begin building the open-face sandwiches by layering each English 
mufﬁn half with 2 slices of the prosciutto.
4. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
5. Slide an egg onto each English mufﬁn half. T op with a very large 
spoonful of pesto, a big handful of arugula, and a sprinkle of ﬂeur de sel. Repeat for the remaining sandwiches, unless you have  multiple pans going!
This does not keep.224 / huckleberryHomemade aioli is so easy to make, and once you try it you’ll never want to buy 
mayon naise again. We use it on almost all the breakfast sandwiches in this book, but there are tons of things that aioli is good for, including dipping for the Butter and Herb Potatoes (page 172), or tossing with pie ces of roasted chicken for a homemade 
chicken salad sandwich. This aioli recipe is also super-versatile. Feel free to add  cayenne pepper, curry powder, or your favorite relish.
aioli
MAKES 3⁄4 CUP/165 G
2 egg yolks 
1 tbsp Dijon mustard½ tsp kosher salt2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 tsp lemon juice1 tsp Champagne vinegar¼ cup + 2 tbsp/90 ml canola oil1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, mustard, and salt 
until combined.
2. Slowly stream in the olive oil, whisking constantly. It helps to set the 
bowl on a kitchen towel to steady it. Add the lemon juice and vin-egar and whisk to combine.
3. Now, very slowly, stream in the canola oil, whisking constantly. If it 
shows signs of separating, slow down the oil a little. When you have a nice even emulsion, stir in the parsley. Wrap or transfer to a jar and refrigerate until needed.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 1 week.sandwiches  / 225Pesto is insanely versatile, so I always make a double batch, and at Huckleberry we 
make it by the boatload. It will elevate almost every savory recipe in this book. I love putting it on the Poached Eggs, Pesto, and Snap Peas (page 266) or serving it as a  dipping sauce alongside frittatas, or the Butter and Herb Potatoes (page 172). It’s also good served with the Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato Hash (page 262).
This is the way I like my pesto, but you should feel free to make it to your own 
liking. Make it more garlicky, more lemony, use different herbs like parsley, mint,  tarragon, even arugula. A good variation is to substitute cilantro for the basil and  ﬁnish it in the blender with 1 oz/30 g goat cheese or cream cheese; serve it this way as a condiment for our beer-braised pork (see page 230).
pesto
MAKES ABOUT 11⁄2 CUPS/300 G
¼ cup/20 g fresh basil leaves,  
tightly packed
⅔ cup/160 ml extra-virgin olive oil2 garlic cloves¼ cup/25 g grated Parmesan1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley1 tbsp pine nuts, lightly toasted½ tsp kosher saltZest and juice of ½ lemon1. Fill a medium saucepan with water and bring to a boil. Beside it, set 
up a medium bowl with ice water.
2. Blanch the basil leaves in the boiling water for 30 to 45 seconds. 
Remove with a strainer or slotted spoon and immediately plunge in the ice water to stop the cooking. Shake off the water and set aside in a blender.
3. Combine ⅓ cup/80 ml of the olive oil and 1 garlic clove in a small 
saucepan and cook over medium heat until fragrant and lightly browned. Refrigerate until cooled completely.
4. In a blender or food processor, combine the cooled garlic and oil, 
blanched basil, Parmesan, parsley, pine nuts, the remaining ⅓ cup/ 80 ml olive oil, the remaining garlic clove, and the salt. Blend until smooth. Add the lemon zest and juice and stir in by hand. Refriger-ate until needed.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 1 week.226 / huckleberryI make this exactly the way my mom made it. It’s the same perfectly salty and sweet 
sandwich that fed me on so many mornings and helped make my taste buds the way they are today. I love you, mom.
A fun variation on this would be using our Fresh Blueberry Brioche (page 108). 
I think it would taste amazing with the egg and butter and brown sugar. Or for a savory version, substitute 1 tbsp grated Parmesan for the brown sugar and serve it with a little mustard. But if you’re making it for me, make it the original way, or you’ll get an earful.
my mom’s egg in a hole
SERVES 1 OR 2
2 slices thick-cut Brioche (page 105)
1 tbsp unsalted butter2 eggs2 tbsp brown sugarFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 475°F/245°C.
2. Make a 1-in/2.5-cm hole in the center of each slice of bread.3. In a large ovenproof sauté pan, melt the butter and add the bread; 
cook until brown. Flip the bread and carefully crack an egg into each hole. Quickly sprinkle each slice of bread, not the egg, with 1 tbsp brown sugar.
4. Immediately transfer to the oven to bake. Don’t try to brown the 
 second side on the stove, that will happen all by itself in the oven. Bake until the egg white sets, but the yolk is quite runny, 6 to 8 minutes. But check your egg at 5 minutes, as a ﬁrm yolk ruins the  pleasure of this simple dish.
5. Sprinkle lightly with ﬂeur de sel.
This is best the moment it emerges from the oven. Does not 
keep well.228 / huckleberryThis is a great summertime dish because th at’s when all these vegetables are at 
their best. It’s also one of those dishes that generally tastes better if it’s made the day before you serve it to give the ﬂavors time to come together, although it still tastes great if you throw it all together the day of.
I leave the garlic cloves whole with the veggies because I love the surprise bites 
that contain the soft, sweet garlic cloves; but if you’re offended by such things, pull them out of the vegetables after they cook and discard.
If you have leftover ratatouille, it makes a great lunch or dinner served over pasta, 
polenta, farro, or any delicious grain. I’ve even smeared it on a turkey sandwich and it was fantastic.
Make sure you use farm eggs so tha t beautiful, rich yellow yolk pops against the 
deep red of the ratatouille.
ratatouille on toast  
with over-easy eggs
SERVES 4
⅔ cup/160 ml extra-virgin  
olive oil, plus more for drizzling
5 garlic cloves2 cups/340 g chopped tomatoes  
(cut into ¾-in/2-cm pieces)
Kosher salt2 or 3 pinches chile ﬂakes2 cups/275 g chopped onions  
(cut into ¾-in/2-cm pieces)
2 cups/290 g chopped zucchini  
(cut into ¾-in/2-cm pieces)
2 cups/275 g chopped red bell pepper 
(cut into ¾-in/2-cm pieces)
2 cups/150 g chopped eggplant  
(cut into ¾-in/2-cm pieces)
⅓ cup/80 ml waterAbout 30 fresh basil leaves, plus 
½ cup/40 g torn fresh basil leaves
1 bay leaf4 slices thick-cut country bread2 to 4 tbsp unsalted butter4 to 8 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. In a large sauté pan over medium-high, heat 2 tsp of the olive oil and  
1 garlic clove until fragrant and beginning to color. Add the toma-toes, ¼ tsp salt, and season with the chile ﬂakes. Sauté until soft-ened, occasionally shaking the pan to avoid burning, about 4 minutes. Transfer to a medium saucepan and set aside.
2. In the same pan, over medium-high heat, sauté 1 garlic clove in 2 tsp 
olive oil until fragrant. Add the onions and ¼ tsp salt and sauté until slightly soft and a light golden brown. Transfer to the saucepan with the tomatoes and set aside.
3. Repeat, sautéing 1 garlic clove in 2 tsp olive oil. This time add the 
zucchini and ¼ tsp salt and cook over high heat, until browned. Transfer to the saucepan with the tomatoes and onions. Set aside.
4. Repeat again with 1 garlic clove in 2 tsp olive oil. Now add the bell 
peppers and ¼ tsp salt and cook over medium-high heat, until browned. Transfer to the saucepan with the rest of the veggies. Set aside.
5. And ﬁnally, repeat one last time, with the pan on medium-high heat. 
Add the remaining garlic, olive oil, and now the eggplant and ¼ tsp salt. Sauté until browned and cooked through. If the eggplant sucks up all the oil and the pan looks dry, add a splash of water. Add the eggplant to the saucepan of veggies, too.sandwiches  / 229 6. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
 7. T o the saucepan of vegetables, add the water, 8 to 10 whole basil 
leaves, and the bay leaf. Cook the vegetable mixture, covered, over medium heat for 20 minutes. Remove the lid and cook for 2 to 5 minutes longer to reduce the juices slightly.
 8. Remove from the heat and stir in the torn basil leaves. (If refriger-
ating overnight, do so now. In the morning, preheat your oven to 
500°F/260°C and warm up the ratatouille in a medium saucepan, covered, over medium heat.)
 9. Drizzle the bread with olive oil, sprinkle with a few pinches of 
salt, and toast in the oven until crisp. Spoon the warm ratatouille over the toast.
 10. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
 11. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. Slide the eggs onto 
the ratatouille, drizzle with olive oil, sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel, and garnish with a few whole basil leaves. 
This should be eaten the moment the eggs hit the bread. The  ratatouille keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.230 / huckleberryIt’s best to braise the pork the day before you serve it so it can absorb all the wonderful 
ﬂavors in the sauce. The key to this dish is cooking the sauce down by more than half, so you get a really nice concentration of pork, beer, onions, and spices. What you lose in volume, you’ll more than make up for in rich, intense ﬂavor. Watercress works really well here because it freshens up the dish, but if you don’t have watercress, use any light green that you see at your farmers’ market, such as arugula, baby spinach, or young lettuces.
beer-braised pork on toast  
with an egg on top
SERVES 3 OR 4
DRY RUB
1 tbsp kosher salt
1 tbsp sugar1 tsp ground cumin¼ tsp ground coriander¼ tsp ground cardamom¼ tsp ground paprika¼ tsp curry powder
3 onions, sliced ¼ in/6 mm thick
5 tbsp + 1 tsp/80 ml extra-virgin olive oilKosher salt2 to 2½ lb/910 g to 1.2 kg pork butt2 garlic cloves2 bay leaves3 bottles very light beer or  
1½ bottles white wine
4 slices country bread or Brioche  
(page 105)
3 to 4 tbsp unsalted butter6 to 8 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling2 bunches watercress, trimmedDAY ONE
 1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
 2. T o make the dry rub: T oss the salt, sugar, cumin, coriander, carda-
mom, paprika, and curry powder together in a small bowl.
 3. T oss the onions with 2 tbsp of the olive oil and 1 tsp of salt and spread 
onto a sheet pan. Roast until nicely seared, about 20 minutes. Lower the oven temperature to 300°F/150°C.
 4. Liberally sprinkle the dry rub over the pork, coating all sides well and 
using all the rub. Heat 2 tbsp olive oil in a Dutch oven over high heat. Sear the pork until very dark on all sides.
 5. Add the roasted onions, garlic, bay leaves, and beer to the pot, cover, 
and bake for 4 to 5 hours, until very soft. You should be able to easily pull the meat with a fork.
 6. Refrigerate the pork in the sauce overnight.
DAY TWO
 7. In the morning, skim off any fat from the braise, then transfer the 
meat to a cutting board. Simmer the sauce over medium heat,  cooking it down by half.
 8. Meanwhile, pull the pork with your hands into rustic hunks and 
 preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
 9. When the sauce has cooked down, return the pork to the pot and 
simmer for 10 minutes.
 10. Drizzle each slice of bread with 1 tsp olive oil, sprinkle with salt, 
and toast in the oven on a sheet pan.
 11. Dollop a big messy scoop of saucy pork onto the toast and set aside 
while you fry the eggs.
CONTINUED232 / huckleberry 12. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
 13. Slide the eggs onto the pork sandwiches, liberally sprinkle with 
ﬂeur de sel, and top with a big handful of watercress. Repeat for the remaining sandwiches, unless you have multiple pans going!
The braised pork keeps well, covered, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.sandwiches  / 233If you’re avoiding carbs and happen to be torturing yourself by reading this book, you 
can make a wonderful salad out of this recipe, too. Omit the bread, maybe add a little arugula or radicchio, and serve with the eggs on top just the same. We love using saba in this dish because it’s thick, sweet, and vinegary and the ﬂavor is a perfect balance for ripe ﬁgs. For those of you not familiar with it, saba is the cooked-down must of wine grapes. It can be hard to ﬁnd and really expensive, so feel free to use a good aged  balsamic in its place or even cook down some not-so-great balsamic until it’s sweet and syrupy. If ﬁgs are out of season, ripe pears are delicious in this dish, too.
ﬁgs, frisée, bacon, and egg on toast
SERVES 2
5 or 6 slices thick-cut bacon
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
1 tsp whole cumin seedsKosher salt2 slices country bread,  
cut 1 in/2.5 cm thick
1 head frisée, washed, dried, and 
chopped
2 tsp saba or high-quality  
balsamic vinegar
5 ripe ﬁgs, carefully quartered1 to 2 tbsp unsalted butter2 to 4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 375°F/190°C.
2. Arrange the bacon on a sheet pan and bake until golden brown, 
about 15 minutes. Allow to cool, and then chop the bacon into 1-in/2.5-cm pieces. Set aside.
3. Increase the oven temperature to 500°F/260°C.4. In a small sauté pan over high heat, combine 1½ tbsp of the olive 
oil, the cumin seeds, and a large pinch of salt and sauté for about 1 minute, until the cumin is fragrant. Set aside.
5. Drizzle the bread with olive oil, sprinkle with salt, and toast in the 
oven until crisp.
6. In a large bowl, toss the frisée, bacon, saba, ½ tbsp olive oil, and a 
pinch of salt. Add the ﬁgs and gently toss just until dispersed.
7. Evenly distribute the salad onto both slices of toast.8. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
9. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. Slide the eggs onto the 
salad, liberally spoon the cumin oil over the eggs, and sprinkle with a pinch of ﬂeur de sel. 
This must be eaten the moment it’s made. Does not keep well at all.234 / huckleberryMy husband and I share a favorite easy snack of smashed avocado on a good piece 
of toast with a little salt. This dish is a slightly more evolved version of that. I use hard-boiled eggs because, ﬁrst of all, I love them, and second, I wanted to give you an alternative to all the fried egg sandwich recipes in case you don’t want to get stuck in your kitchen frying eggs à la minute. The anchovy dressing pairs perfectly with the eggs and adds a healthy amount of much-needed acidity to the rich fattiness of the avocado and the eggs.
smashed avocado toast with  
hard-boiled eggs and anchovy dressing
SERVES 4
8 eggs
DRESSING
½ cup/120 ml extra-virgin olive oil
3 tbsp red wine vinegar6 or 7 anchovy ﬁllets4½ tsp Dijon mustard4½ tsp capers in brine, drained¼ tsp kosher salt¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper2 tsp honey4 tsp chopped fresh chives
4 very ripe avocados
Kosher salt2 lemons; 1 juiced, 1 cut into quarters4 slices of your favorite breadExtra-virgin olive oil for drizzling1 head butter lettuce,  
washed and hand torn1. Put the eggs in a medium saucepan with water to cover by about  
2 in/5 cm. Bring to a boil, then immediately turn off the heat, cover, and allow to sit for 12 minutes. Remove the eggs from the  pan and refrigerate on a dish until cool.
2. T o make the dressing: Combine all the ingredients except the chives 
in a blender or food processor. Blend until homogenous, transfer to a small bowl, and fold in the chives. Set aside.
3. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.4. When the eggs have cooled, peel off the shells. I ﬁnd this easiest 
to do under a little running water. Slice the eggs into ¼-in/6-mm rounds and set aside.
5. Scoop the ﬂesh from the avocados and transfer to a bowl with ¾ tsp  
salt and the lemon juice. Using a fork or a potato masher, lightly smash  the avocados.
6. Arrange the bread on a sheet pan, drizzle with olive oil, sprinkle with  
salt, and toast in the oven. When the bread is toasted, drizzle 1½ tbsp  of dressing over each slice. T op with the smashed avocado, the more the better, followed by 2 sliced hard-boiled eggs. Drizzle with ½ to 1 tbsp more dressing, to taste. T op with a small handful of the lettuce 
and squeeze 1 lemon quarter over each. 
This must be eaten the moment it’s made. Does not keep well.sandwiches  / 237T artine  is a fancy French word for “open-faced sandwich.” This tartine is perfect for 
you if you’re a slightly challenged gardener like myself and end up with a vine of  tomatoes that don’t quite come to maturity. This would be awesome with an egg on top but it is not necessary, and the same goes for adding sliced ripe avocado. I’ve also used big ripe red tomatoes and tested it with tomatillos; both work well, but ripe tomatoes do cause it to get soggier faster, so eat fast.
fried green tomato, bacon,  
and spicy slaw tartine
SERVES 4
SLAW
About ½ head cabbage, shredded
½ jalapeño, sliced into thin coins  
(seeds removed if you prefer it mild)
¼ cup/40 g thinly sliced red onion½ cup/8 g chopped fresh cilantro¼ cup/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil2 tbsp Champagne vinegar1 tbsp sherry vinegar2 tbsp brown sugar1 tsp kosher salt½ tsp dried mustard
TARTINE
12 slices thick-cut bacon4 slices country bread or  
Comfort Food Biscuits (page 62)
4 tsp extra-virgin olive oilKosher salt4 large green tomatoes1 cup/125 g ﬂour, all-purpose  
or whole-wheat
4 eggs, beaten1½ cups/160 g breadcrumbs  
(homemade or unseasoned  store-bought)
Canola oil for frying1 batch Aioli (page 224) 1. T o make the slaw: Combine the cabbage, jalapeño, red onion, and 
cilantro in a large bowl.
 2. In a small bowl, whisk together the olive oil, Champagne vinegar, 
sherry vinegar, brown sugar, salt, and mustard. Pour the vinaigrette over the cabbage mixture, toss thoroughly to coat, and set aside at room temperature, tossing occasionally while you prepare the rest.
 3. Preheat your oven to 400°F/200°C. 4. T o make the tartine: Arrange the bacon on a sheet pan and roast until 
golden brown and crisp, about 10 minutes.
 5. Arrange the bread on a sheet pan, top each slice with 1 tsp of the 
olive oil and a pinch of salt, and toast in the oven with the bacon. (Skip this step if using biscuits.)
 6. Slice the tomatoes into ½-in/12-mm rounds and transfer to paper 
towels to drain for a few minutes.
 7. Set up three medium bowls for a breading station. Place the ﬂour 
in one bowl, the eggs in another, and the breadcrumbs in the third. Add ¼ tsp salt to each bowl. Set a cooling rack over a sheet pan.
 8. Dip each tomato round into the ﬂour, then the eggs, and ﬁnally the 
breadcrumbs. Then transfer to the prepared cooling rack.
 9. Heat 3 tbsp of canola oil in a large sauté pan over high heat. When 
the oil is hot, reduce the heat to medium and cook each tomato round until brown and crisp, 1 to 2 minutes per side. Transfer back to the cooling rack. You‘ll most likely need to replenish the oil after each batch. Sprinkle the tomatoes with a little salt and transfer to the oven to cook through, 8 to 10 minutes.
 10. Spread 2 tsp aioli on each slice of toast, followed by 3 bacon slices, 
2 or 3 tomato slices, and a healthy handful of slaw.
These are best the moment they’re made; they do not keep well.238 / huckleberryWhen I make this dish, I make it really spicy. I love the kick from the chile ﬂakes with 
the sweetness of the squash and the earthiness of the kale. But if you don’t like heat, use less chile ﬂakes or even omit them altogether. Also feel free to substitute bacon for pancetta if you’d like, or make this a great vegetarian dish with no meat at all.
spicy butternut squash, kale,  
pancetta, and egg tartine
SERVES 2
1 small butternut squash,  
halved and seeded
3 tbsp/45 ml extra-virgin olive oil¾ tsp kosher salt, plus more if needed6 to 8 slices thick-cut pancetta5 large fresh sage leaves2 garlic cloves2 slices country sourdough bread½ tsp brown sugar, plus more if needed4 cups/145 g ﬁnely chopped kaleChile ﬂakes for seasoning1 tbsp unsalted butter2 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling 1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
 2. Put the squash on a sheet of aluminum foil, drizzle with 1 tbsp of 
the olive oil, and ½ tsp of the salt. Seal in the foil and roast until very soft, 45 to 55 minutes. The cook time varies with squash size, so poke it with a fork to test doneness before removing it from the oven. Set aside to cool, or refrigerate overnight.
 3. Lower the oven temperature to 375°F/190°C. Spread out the pancetta  
on a sheet pan and bake until nice and crisp, about 15 minutes.
 4. While the squash cools, heat 1 tbsp olive oil, the sage leaves, and 
1 garlic clove in a small sauté pan over medium heat, until fragrant. Discard the garlic and sage. Allow the oil to cool.
 5. Increase the oven temperature to 500°F/260°C and toast the bread 
on a sheet pan until crisp. It’s ﬁne to start toasting while the oven temperature is still rising.
 6. When the squash has cooled, scoop out the ﬂesh and drop it into 
a blender with the infused oil, brown sugar, and salt. Purée until smooth. Taste, adjust for sugar and salt, and set aside. You should have about 2 cups/240 g.
 7. In a large sauté pan over medium-high heat, sauté the kale with 1 tbsp  
olive oil, the remaining garlic, ¼ tsp salt, and lots of chile ﬂakes, until soft, 2 to 3 minutes.
 8. Spread about ¾ cup/90 g of the butternut squash on each slice of 
toast. T op with the pancetta and sautéed kale. Set aside.
 9. Heat the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack the 
eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
 10. Slide the eggs onto the sandwiches and liberally sprinkle with 
ﬂeur de sel. 
This must be eaten the moment it’s made. Does not keep well at all.sandwiches  / 239This is an old-school, traditional, salty-sweet breakfast sandwich, so obviously I think 
it’s amazing. A Monte Cristo is naughty but delicious, so you really shouldn’t have it too often and you should really enjoy it when you do. Monte Cristo eating is not a passive sport, it’s an event. When inviting your friends over to eat this sandwich, do not invite them over for brunch; you need to be much clearer than that. Invite them over to “eat a Monte Cristo,” then commit to spending the rest of the afternoon together watching movies or playing board games because there are very few activities you can do after eating a sandwich like this.
The best approach to any Monte Cristo party is to build the sandwiches, mix up the 
custard, and make a batch of jam the night before. Then in the morning, all you have to do is soak, sauté, and make a nice green salad—though Laurel is sitting beside me suggesting that when a person is eating a Monte Cristo they don’t want to waste their time eating a salad. We rarely disagree, so salad or no salad, up to you.
monte cristo
SERVES 3
3 tbsp/45 ml heavy cream
3 fresh sage leaves¼ tsp kosher salt1 pinch freshly ground black pepper 
(optional)
3 eggs1 tsp sugar9 slices Brioche (page 105) or store-
bought challah
4 tbsp/60 g dijon mustard6 tbsp/100 g mayonnaise or  
Aioli (page 224)
12 thin to medium slices of ham1½ cups/125 g grated Gruyère½ cup/120 g Blueberry Jam (page 241)1 tbsp butter1 tsp extra-virgin olive oilPowdered sugar for dusting1. In a small sauté pan, bring the cream to a boil with the sage, salt, and 
pepper (if using). Allow to cool completely. Then whisk in the eggs and sugar. Refrigerate until needed.
2. Build the sandwiches by laying out all nine slices of bread on a clean 
work surface. On three slices, spread the mustard. Set aside. On the six remaining slices, spread the mayonnaise, then divide the ham and Gruyère evenly among the bread slices. Place the three  mustard-covered bread slices on top of three of the ham-and-cheese slices; invert those onto the last three ham-and-cheese slices. You should now have three triple-decker sandwiches with mustard slices in the middle, surrounded by ham and cheese.
3. Cut off the crusts in order to help seal the layered sandwiches. Wrap 
tightly in plastic and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or up to 12 hours. When ready to cook, put your jam in a small saucepan on a back burner and warm it on low. Remove the egg batter from the fridge.
4. In a large sauté pan, heat 1 tbsp butter and 1 tsp olive oil over medium 
heat. Dip each sandwich in the egg batter until coated and place together in the pan.
5. Brown the top, bottom, and all four sides of the sandwiches, until 
the entire outside is a deep golden brown and the cheese is melted. Serve immediately, with a dusting of powdered sugar and a dollop of warm blueberry jam.
No one will ever know how well these keep because they will be eaten in seconds. But I suspect not well.sandwiches  / 241This is the jam I always have around for Milo. It’s my favorite jam to make because it’s 
free of processed sugars and it goes with absolutely everything. You can sub maple syrup for the honey if you like; and though fresh are always tastier, you can use frozen berries for this; but keep in mind, they will leak more liquid and take a little longer to cook down, so adjust accordingly. 
blueberry jam
MAKES ABOUT 1 CUP/320 G
3½ to 4 cups/525 to 600 g  
fresh blueberries
¼ cup/85 g honey¼ tsp kosher salt¼ cup/60 ml waterCombine the blueberries, honey, salt, and water in a medium  
stainless-steel pot.  Simmer over medium heat until jammy, about  15 minutes.  Refrigerate until needed. 
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.242 / huckleberryThe great thing about this sandwich is that you can assemble it the night before. If 
you’re having people over for breakfast, relax and sleep in. All you need to do is throw the sandwiches in a super-hot oven and within 25 minutes you’ll have a killer hot breakfast and all you’ve been doing is chatting and sipping your coffee. Heaven!
If you want to shake things up, you can use cooked sausage or bacon instead of 
ham and/or top it with fried eggs. I always serve these with Dijon mustard, a simple green salad, and pickles.
traditional croque monsieur
SERVES 6
6 slices good sourdough bread,  
cut 1 in/2.5 cm thick
1 batch Béchamel (facing page)12 slices ham (I love Niman Ranch)3 cups/350 g grated Gruyère1. Preheat your oven to 475°F/240°C.
2. Arrange the bread on a rack over a sheet pan. Spread ¼ cup/60 ml  
of the béchamel on each. Layer with 2 slices of ham and sprinkle liberally with the Gruyère.
3. Bake until browned and crispy, about 20 minutes.
Uncooked, the croque keeps well, tightly wrapped, refrigerated, 
for up to 1 day. After baking, it keeps well for a couple of hours at room temperature.sandwiches  / 243Occasionally when I step away from the kitchen at Huck, a recipe will change without 
my knowing. I’ll come into work, stick my ﬁnger into something, and pause, thinking, That’s new . Shortly afterward an investigation will ensue and everyone will point their 
ﬁngers in the other direction, afraid of getting in trouble with the boss. Well, whoever made this unconventional béchamel by adding jalapeño should probably step up and take credit. It’s awesome and it made it into the book. The jalapeño is left whole in here so that it doesn’t overpower the béchamel, instead just giving it a subtle but more complex ﬂavor.
béchamel
MAKES 2 CUPS/480 ML
4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter
¼ cup/40 g chopped onion1 jalapeño2 sprigs fresh thyme1 tsp kosher salt⅛ tsp freshly ground black pepper⅓ cup/40 g all-purpose ﬂour1½ cups/360 ml whole milk,  
at room temperature1. Set a mesh strainer over a bowl and set aside.
2. Melt the butter in a medium sauté pan over medium-high heat. 
Add the onion, jalapeño, thyme, salt, and black pepper and sauté until the onion is softened but not browned. Add the ﬂour and cook, stirring continuously, for 1 minute, to cook out that ﬂoury taste. Slowly add the milk, about ¼ cup/60 ml at a time, while whisking constantly to maintain the emulsion, and continue cooking until slightly thickened, 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Strain the sauce into the bowl. Use a silicone spatula or wooden 
spoon to help work the sauce through the mesh. It will take some elbow grease. You should end up with about 2 cups/430 ml of sauce. Discard the onion, thyme, jalapeño, and any lumpy bits. Immediately cover with plastic wrap, pressing the plastic directly to the surface of the béchamel in order to prevent a skin from  forming. Refrigerate until cool.
This keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 1 week.sandwiches  / 245I almost like these better than the traditional ham version, and there are endless vari-
ations. Here we use leeks and spinach, but they’re also great with fresh or sun-dried tomatoes, sautéed mushrooms, asparagus and leeks, roasted squash and sautéed kale, or even sautéed Brussels sprouts.
The key to any good croque is making sure the cheese is brown and bubbly and 
the bread is crispy, while the inside stays nice and moist. That’s the reason we want you to bake it on a rack, because it allows the hot air to circulate and brown both the top and bottom of the bread, while the abundant amount of béchamel keep it deli-cious and moist inside. Serve with a large salad.
vegetarian croque
MAKES 4
4 large leeks, white and light green 
parts only
3 cups/340 g grated Gruyère2 tsp fresh thyme leaves2 tbsp unsalted butterKosher salt1 tsp water4 cups/120 g fresh spinachFreshly ground black pepper4 slices good sourdough bread or 
Brioche (page 105)
1 batch Béchamel (page 243)1. Preheat your oven to 475°F/240°C. Slice the leeks into ¼-in/6-mm 
coins; wash thoroughly and drain.
2. Put the Gruyère and thyme leaves in a medium bowl and toss to 
combine. Set aside.
3. Melt the butter in a large sauté pan over high heat. Add the leeks 
and 1 tsp salt and sauté until just starting to brown. Add the water, lower the heat to medium, and continue cooking until the leeks are soft, about 4 minutes. Allow to cool completely. Then, toss with the  spinach and season with salt and pepper.
4. Arrange the bread on a rack over a sheet pan. Spread ¼ cup/60 ml 
of béchamel on each. Evenly distribute the spinach-leek mix-ture on the béchamel. T op each with about ¾ cup/85 g of the Gruyère mixture.
5. Bake until browned and crispy, about 20 minutes.
Uncooked, the croque keeps well, tightly wrapped, refrigerated, 
for up to 1 day. After baking, it keeps well for a couple of hours at room temperature.9:30 A.M.
hearty plates 
with an egg 
on topIt’s only 9:30 a.m. and we’re already starting to prep 
tomorrow’s brisket. We have to. It roasts for 6 hours and marinates overnight. But it’s worth it. I never get sick of seeing lovely West Los Angeles ladies taking down big hearty plates of brisket hash topped with eggs over-easy.
On any given week, we go through 200 lb/91 kg of 
brisket, 300 lb/136 kg of bacon, and 7 ,000 eggs. The line guys face the minute-to-minute pressure of get-ting orders out on time, but none of this is possible without our amazing team of prep cooks whose sole job is to do all the nitty-gritty—like cutting the right amount of fat off of a pork shoulder so it’ll braise cor-rectly, or making soup, or forming hundreds of turkey meatballs in order to make the customers happy and make me and the line cooks look good. If the prep cooks do their job well, then 85 percent of the work on most dishes is done before it reaches the guys on the line. Well-cooked meat and properly roasted vegetables mean those line cooks don’t have to be so perfect all the time, although most often they are.
I go back to check on how the prep’s going, and 
there’s Eva simultaneously lining thin slices of ham on béchamel-covered country bread for Croque Monsieurs, slicing butternut squash to roast for a 
new salad, and regulating the new prep guy and the dishwasher at the same time. She’s my picture of perfection. Eva’s been with us since the beginning of Rustic Canyon and I insisted when we opened Huckleberry that she come with me. She’s a single mom with four kids and she’s not afraid to work hard and certainly not too shy to lay down the law, even if it means putting me in my place. She’s the kind of person who gives you the cold shoulder until she trusts you, and then she opens up with the sweetest smile reserved only for those who have worked their way into her inner circle. She gets there early, at 4 a.m. with the bakers, and does her savory prep with care throughout her shift. She gets mad if the menu feels stagnant and she doesn’t have enough new stuff to do. She understands that if the squash she’s roasting doesn’t have the right color on it, then some customer is going to have a subpar salad, and that pains her as much as it pains me. I love her so much.
She’s just ﬁnished her multitasking and is ready for 
her break. She eases into a cup of coffee with her girl, Eli, who’s been with us equally as long and is just as amazing. If we had more Evas and Elis throughout our restaurants, our jobs would be a lot easier.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 249This is one of the most straightforward recipes in this chapter, but its no less beautiful 
and satisfying. If you want to do a little more, it would be great with a little Pesto (page 225) on the eggs and even a sprinkle of breadcrumbs. And if you want to sub-stitute out the potatoes, roasted carrots or squash would be great. People have all different goat cheese thresholds, so add or subtract to taste.
roasted potato, spinach, and  
goat cheese with an egg on top
SERVES 2
1½ lb/680 g ﬁngerling potatoes,  
cut into ¼-in/6-mm coins
3 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1½ tsp kosher salt¼ cup/40 g ﬁnely diced shallots or 
yellow onions
6 cups/180 g tightly packed spinach1 to 2 tbsp unsalted butter2 to 4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling¼ cup/55 g goat cheese, crumbled¼ cup/15 g sliced fresh chives,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm pieces1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. T oss the potatoes with 2 tbsp of the olive oil and 1¼ tsp of the salt. 
Roast on a sheet pan for about 35 minutes, until browned and crisp but not dry.
3. When the potatoes are roasted, sauté the shallots with the remain-
ing 1 tbsp olive oil in a large sauté pan over medium-high heat until soft and translucent. Add the potatoes, spinach, and the remaining ¼ tsp salt and sauté for about 30 seconds, until wilted. Set aside.
4. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs. 
5. Mound the potato mixture into bowls. Slide the eggs onto the pota-
toes. Sprinkle each serving with ﬂeur de sel and top with the goat cheese and chives. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. 
This is best enjoyed immediately.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 251I thought I didn’t like turnips, and neither did Laurel, until we made this. So if you think 
you don’t like turnips, put them in anyway. Roasted like this, they’re actually really good. On the other hand, I tested this with rutabaga, and it is not good at all. The ﬂavor is just too strong.
Roasting the beets the day before makes a lot of sense. It’s a long process, so you 
might want to roast a bunch and save some for a salad or to eat with fresh burrata or on the Smashed Avocado T oast with Hard-Boiled Eggs and Anchovy Dressing (page 234), thinly sliced, instead of the eggs.
roasted root vegetables with eggs
SERVES 2
2 or 3 small beets, plus 3 cups/110 g 
beet greens, washed and chopped
4 tbsp/60 ml extra-virgin olive oilKosher salt1 apple, unpeeled, sliced into eighths2 small turnips2 cups sliced carrots,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm coins
1 tbsp chopped fresh rosemary1 garlic clove1 tbsp capers in brine, drained  
and coarsely chopped
1 tbsp Dijon mustard1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley1 to 2 tbsp unsalted butter2 to 4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. Put the beets, 1 tbsp of the olive oil, and ⅛ tsp salt on a sheet of 
aluminum foil and wrap thoroughly. Roast for about 1 hour and 30 minutes. 
3. Meanwhile, toss the apple, turnips, and carrots with 2 tbsp olive oil, 
1 tsp salt, and the rosemary. Place on a sheet and roast beside the beets until browned, 15 to 20 minutes longer, and the beets are fork-tender. While warm, but not hot, rub the skin off the beets with a paper towel or clean kitchen towel. Slice the beets.
4. When everything is roasted, heat the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil and 
the garlic in a large sauté pan over medium-high until browned and fragrant. Discard the garlic. Add the beet greens and capers and sauté until wilted. Add the roasted vegetables and sauté until heated through. Taste for salt and adjust as needed. Remove from the heat, toss with the mustard and parsley, and set aside.
5. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
6. Meanwhile, mound the roasted vegetables onto two plates. Slide the 
eggs onto the vegetables, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs.
The roasted vegetable mixture keeps well, refrigerated, for up to  2 days.252 / huckleberryAfter we opened our pizzeria Milo & Olive, my son developed a deep obsession with 
the wood-ﬁred oven. So I began to think of fun foods we could cook in our ﬁreplace at home. One of our favorites is roasting spaghetti squash by wrapping each half in foil and burying them in the hot coals. It adds an amazing smoky ﬂavor, and my young son is amazed that although his tiny ﬁreman jacket won’t ﬁt me, I’m actually a ﬁre woman. Depending on the size of your squash it should take 1 to 1½ hours to roast in the ﬁre-place; check by piercing it with a butter knife.
roasted spaghetti squash  
with parmesan and eggs
SERVES 4
3 medium spaghetti squash
4 tbsp/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil¾ tsp kosher salt2 garlic cloves½ tsp chile ﬂakes, plus more for topping½ cup/40 g fresh basil leaves, torn2 to 4 tbsp unsalted butter4 to 8 eggs½ cup/50 g coarsely chopped 
Parmesan, cut into ¼-in/6-mm pieces
Fleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. Slice the squash in half lengthwise and remove and discard the 
seeds. Transfer to a sheet pan, drizzle with 2 tbsp of the olive oil, and sprin kle with the salt. Wrap tightly with foil and roast for 50 minutes to 1 hour, until soft. The cook time varies with squash size, so poke with a fork to test doneness before removing from the oven. Set aside to cool, or refrigerate overnight.
3. When the squash is cool, use a fork to scrape the ﬂesh from the skin 
in long strands into a bowl and set aside. It should feel like al dente spaghetti. Do not use a spoon.
4. Heat the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil and the garlic in a sauté pan over 
medium heat until the garlic is aromatic and slightly browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Discard the garlic. Add the squash and chile ﬂakes. Sauté until warmed through, occasionally tossing with a fork, not a spoon. Remove from the heat, toss with the basil, and set aside.
5. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
6. Meanwhile, mound the squash onto three or four plates and 
top with Parmesan. Slide the eggs onto the squash and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel and a tiny pinch of chile ﬂakes. Repeat with any  remaining butter and eggs.
This is best enjoyed immediately.254 / huckleberryIf blanching and roasting the asparagus feels like too much trouble, this would be deli-
cious with roasted carrots, sautéed spinach, sautéed mushrooms, or quickly sautéed peas and pea shoots. I added the crispy prosciutto because I like the crunch with the soft polenta, but if you don’t have prosciutto or you don’t like eating meat, feel free to substitute salted, hand-torn breadcrumbs in its place to get that nice contrast.
polenta with roasted asparagus,  
crispy prosciutto, and eggs
SERVES 4
Kosher salt
2 bunches medium asparagus, trimmed2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oilFreshly ground black pepper8 to 12 slices prosciutto1 garlic clove, chopped1 cup/160 g cornmeal4 tbsp/55 g unsalted butter½ cup/50 g grated Parmesan4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
2. Bring a large pot of water with a small handful of salt to a boil. Cook 
the asparagus until just tender but not soft, 3 to 4 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, set up a large bowl of ice water. When the asparagus is  
done, immediately drop it into the ice bath to cool for 2 to 3 minutes.  Lightly towel-dry the asparagus and spread out, in a single layer, on one or two sheet pans. If the spears are too crowded, they won’t brown properly. T oss with the olive oil, ¼ tsp salt, and season with pepper; roast until browned, about 15 minutes.
4. Arrange the prosciutto on a sheet pan and roast until crisp, about  
12 to 15 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack and set aside.
5. Combine 1 qt/960 ml water, the garlic, and 2 tsp salt in a medium 
saucepan. Bring to a boil and slowly whisk in the cornmeal. Reduce the heat to medium and cook for about 3 minutes. When the corn-meal has absorbed most of the liquid and has a nice creamy texture, add 2 tbsp of the butter and the Parmesan and season with pepper. Whisk to combine and set aside.
6. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, discard the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
7. While the eggs ﬁnish, dollop the polenta onto serving plates, followed  
by a large helping of a sparagus. S lide the eggs onto the asparagus, 
sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel, and top with shards of crispy prosciutto. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. 
The polenta keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 4 days.256 / huckleberryQuinoa and eggs is a Huck staple. We always have it on the menu, though the veggies 
change with the seasons. It might be squash and kale, or corn and shallots, or roasted cherry tomatoes and spring onions depending on the month. Many things seem to work well with quinoa, so play with this recipe as much as you like.
quinoa, baby carrots,  
sprouting broccoli, and eggs
SERVES 2
2 tbsp ﬁnely chopped shallots or 
yellow onion
1 leek, ﬁnely diced2½ tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 cup/200 g quinoa, rinsed1 tsp kosher salt2 cups/480 ml water or stock,  
plus 2 tbsp
Zest of 1 lemon2 bunches whole baby carrotsFreshly ground black pepper1 garlic clove1 bunch sprouting broccoli,  
stem ends trimmed
1 to 2 tbsp unsalted butter2 to 4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
2. In a saucepan, sauté the shallots and leek in 1 tbsp of the olive oil 
over medium heat until nice and soft, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the quinoa and ½ tsp of the salt and sauté for 1 minute longer. Add the 2 cups/ 480 ml water and simmer over medium heat until the water is absorbed. Remove from the heat, fold in the lemon zest, and set aside.
3. Meanwhile, toss the carrots with ½ tbsp olive oil and ¼ tsp salt and 
season with pepper. Spread out on a sheet pan and roast until brown and soft, about 35 minutes.
4. When the quinoa and carrots are both done, heat the remaining 
1 tbsp olive oil and the garlic in a large sauté pan over  medium-high heat, until fragrant and slightly browned. Discard the garlic. Add the broccoli, the 2 tbsp water, and ¼ tsp salt to the pan. Cover and sauté until tender, shaking the pan occasionally, about 4 minutes. Lower the heat to medium-low, add the quinoa and carrots to the pan, toss to combine, and cook for about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
5. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs. 
6. While the eggs ﬁnish, scoop the quinoa mixture onto two dishes. 
Slide the eggs onto the quinoa. Sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs.
The quinoa mixture keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 257Just like in baking, I equate color with ﬂavor, so the browner the grain the better the 
ﬂavor. Grains like wild rice or bulgur add depth of ﬂavor and nuttiness to whatever you’re cooking. You can swap out grains in pretty much any recipe that calls for them in this book.
This is a soul-satisfying, deeply ﬂavored, but simple breakfast. So much so that 
you could easily serve it for dinner. A nice variation on this dish would be adding ½ to ¾ lb/225 to 350 g sliced Brussels sprouts to the leeks, with ¼ tsp salt and black pep-per—they would work beautifully with the leeks, mushrooms, and raisins.
mushrooms, leeks, and  
fried eggs over wild rice
SERVES 4
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1½ cups/240 g chopped onion 2 garlic cloves, chopped1 tbsp chopped fresh rosemary2¾ tsp kosher saltFreshly ground black pepper1¼ cups/200 g wild rice5 to 7 tbsp unsalted butter2¾ cups/650 ml water2 leeks, white and light green parts only, 
chopped
1½ lb/680 g fresh mushrooms, any kind 
you fancy, lightly rinsed and sliced
1 tbsp chopped fresh oregano, plus torn 
fresh oregano leaves for garnish
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme¼ cup/40 g raisins4 to 8 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. In a medium saucepan, combine 1 tbsp of the olive oil, the onion, 
garlic, rosemary, ¼ tsp of the salt, and a pinch of pepper and sauté over medium heat until soft, 10 to 15 minutes. Add the rice and 1 tbsp of the butter and sauté for 1 to 2 minutes. Add the water and 1½ tsp salt and stir to combine. Bring to a boil, then immediately reduce  the heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer gently for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until the rice is tender and the liquid is absorbed.
2. Meanwhile, heat the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil in a large sauté pan 
over a medium-high heat. Add the leeks, ½ tsp salt, and a pinch of pepper and sauté, stirring frequently, until soft, about 5 minutes.  Set aside in a small bowl.
3. When the rice is done, remove it from the heat and keep it covered 
while you sauté the mushrooms.
4. In the same sauté pan, melt 1 tbsp butter over high heat. When the 
pan is good and hot, add the mushrooms, the remaining ½ tsp salt, a pinch of pepper, the chopped oregano, and thyme. Sauté, stirring as little as possible, until browned and tender, about 10 minutes. 
Add the leeks and raisins to the pan and toss to combine. Remove 
from the heat, add 1 tbsp butter, and toss to combine. Set aside.
5. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
6. While the eggs ﬁnish, mound the rice onto plates and top with 
the mushroom mixture. Slide the eggs onto the mushrooms.  Sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. T op the dish with a few torn oregano leaves. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. 
The rice and mushrooms keep well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 259The key to this recipe is the last 2 tbsp of vinegar at the end. It brings this dish 
together and brightens it up at the same time. I love to eat this dish with sausages on the side, but crumbled sausage or chopped bacon cooked in with the lentils is really good as well. Serve it with nice crusty bread and butter.
lentils with roasted cherry tomatoes  
and sunny-side-up eggs
SERVES 4
4 cups/720 g whole cherry tomatoes
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme3 garlic cloves; 1 whole, 2 chopped¼ cup/60 ml extra-virgin olive oil,  
plus 1 tbsp
1¾ tsp kosher salt¼ tsp chile ﬂakes1 cup/160 g chopped onion 1 cup/120 g chopped carrots 1 cup/160 g chopped fennel 1 tbsp chopped fresh rosemary1 cup/190 g dried lentils, washed1 cup/240 ml dry white wine3½ cups/830 ml waterFreshly ground pepper2 tbsp red wine vinegar2 tbsp unsalted butter4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 450°F/230°C.
2. Combine the cherry tomatoes, thyme, whole garlic clove, ¼ cup/ 
60 ml olive oil, ½ tsp of the salt, and the chile ﬂakes in a medium sauté pan. Roast until the tomatoes are dark brown, bursting, and beginning to cook down, about 30 minutes.
3. In a medium saucepan, sauté the onion, carrots, fennel, chopped 
garlic, and rosemary in the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil with ¼ tsp salt over medium-high heat until the vegetables begin to soften, about 10 minutes.
4. Stir in the lentils, add the wine, and cook down by about two-thirds. 
Add the water and simmer, uncovered, for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until the lentils are tender, stirring occasionally.
5. Stir in the remaining 1 tsp salt and season with pepper. Gently fold 
in the roasted tomatoes and their juices, and cook for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the vinegar; set aside.
6. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter 
in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small 
bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
7. While the eggs ﬁnish, scoop the lentil mixture into bowls. Slide 
the eggs onto the lentils. Sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Repeat with the remaining butter and eggs. 
The lentil mixture keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.260 / huckleberryIf you’ve spent some time reading through this book, you probably have some 
 understanding of my deep and obsessive love of corn. It is the perfect salty-sweet vegetable. For that reason, this dish is my hands-down favorite in this chapter. However, please make this recipe only in the height of summer when both corn and  tomatoes are at their best.
corn, cherry tomato,  
and spinach hash
SERVES 2
About ¼ loaf unsliced bread,  
whatever you have around
3 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1 tsp kosher salt2 cups/330 g cherry tomatoes⅛ tsp chile ﬂakes2 cups/245 g fresh corn kernels 3 cups/90 g spinach¼ cup/20 g thinly sliced fresh basil, plus 
a few whole basil leaves for topping
1 to 2 tbsp unsalted butter2 to 4 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
2. Scoop out the soft insides from the loaf of bread. Discard the crusty 
shell. T ear the bread into bite-size pieces. You should have about ½ cup/50 g. Scatter on a sheet pan, drizzle with 1 tbsp of the olive oil, and ¼ tsp of the salt. T oast in the oven until nicely browned and crunchy, 4 to 5 minutes.
3. In a medium sauté pan, combine 1 tbsp olive oil, the cherry toma-
toes, ½ tsp salt, and the chile ﬂakes. Sauté over high heat, covered, until the tomatoes burst, 3 minutes. Remove the lid and allow the tomato juices to cook down and thicken for another 3 to 4 minutes.  Don’t stir too often, because you don’t want the tomatoes to break up into a sauce; you want whole tomatoes. Set aside in a small bowl.
4. In the same pan, over high heat, combine the remaining 1 tbsp 
olive oil, the corn, and ¼ tsp salt and sauté until tender, but not browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes back to the pan and toss to combine and reheat. Add the spinach and sliced basil and 
sauté until just barely wilted, about 30 seconds. Remove from the heat and set aside.
5. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter 
in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small 
bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
6. While the eggs ﬁnish, mound the hash onto two plates. Slide the 
eggs onto the hash, sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel, and top with the breadcrumbs and basil leaves. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs. 
The corn and tomato mixture keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.262 / huckleberryI created this dish one morning when I wanted to make something really special for 
breakfast and happened to have a ton of leftover brisket from the night before. So feel free to follow suit and make this brisket one night for dinner alongside some beautiful roasted carrots and mashed potatoes, then serve it the next day for breakfast as a hash.
Be sure to start this recipe at least one day ahead, as brisket really needs time to 
absorb the ﬂavor from the sauce. In fact, it probably tastes best on day three. The key to braising a good brisket is to keep as much fat on the meat as possible when you braise it, then cut it off the next day after the meat is cooked. So please be very stern with your butcher and make him leave all that fat on.
Bread is a natural with this saucy dish, either big hunks of crusty bread served on 
the side or torn breadcrumbs right on top. Either way you want something to soak up this luscious sauce. I love piling a big handful of arugula on top because it makes it taste fresher and lighter, but no less hearty. At Huckleberry we serve two eggs per person, but at home, with such a hearty dish, I fry only one.
braised brisket and ﬁngerling potato hash
SERVES 6
DRY RUB
1 tbsp brown sugar
½ tbsp kosher salt½ tsp freshly ground black pepper½ tsp ground cinnamon½ tsp chile ﬂakes
2 lb/1.2 kg beef brisket, untrimmed
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil2 onions, cut into ¾-in/2-cm dice2 carrots, cut into ¾-in/2-cm dice1 fennel bulb, cut into ¾-in/2-cm dice1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme1 garlic clove, choppedOne 750-ml bottle red wineOne 28-oz/800-g can whole tomatoes
HASH
1¼lb/570 g ﬁngerling potatoes,  
sliced into ¼-in/6-mm coins
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil1½ tsp chopped fresh rosemary1½ tsp kosher salt
3 to 6 tbsp/45 to 85 g unsalted butter
6 to 12 eggsFleur de sel for sprinkling3 cups/110 g arugulaDAY ONE
1. T o make the dry rub: In a small bowl toss together the brown sugar, 
salt, pepper, cinnamon, and chile ﬂakes. 
2. Preheat your oven to 300°F/150°C. Spread the rub evenly over the 
brisket. Do not trim any fat.
3. Heat the olive oil in a Dutch oven over high heat. When the pan is 
quite hot, sear the meat on all sides until each is a very deep, dark brown. Remove the brisket from the pan and set aside.
4. Immediately, with the pot still over high heat, add the onions, car-
rots, fennel, thyme, and garlic. The bottom of the pan will be very dark, but don’t be scared, it will only add depth of ﬂavor. Sauté the veggies while scraping the dark bits from the bottom of the pan until beginning to brown, about 4 minutes. Add the wine and scrape the last bits from bottom. Lower the heat to a simmer, cooking down the liquid for 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes, crushing them with your hands into the pot. Stir together and cook for 1 minute longer.
5. Return the meat to the pan and ladle the sauce over it. Cover and 
bake until insanely tender, 4½ to 5 hours. Check doneness by poking with a fork. If the fork goes through easily, then it’s done.
6. Refrigerate overnight.
CONTINUED264 / huckleberryDAY TWO
 7. T o make the hash: In the morning, preheat your oven to 425°F/220°C.
 8. T oss the potatoes with the olive oil, the rosemary, and salt. Roast on a 
sheet pan for 35 to 40 minutes until browned and crisp but not dry.
 9. Meanwhile, remove the brisket from the sauce and place it on 
a cutting board. Skim any fat from the sauce and discard the fat. Over medium-high heat, cook the sauce down by about half, about 30 minutes.
 10. Trim the fat from the brisket and cut the meat into 1-in/2.5-cm 
cubes. Add the brisket back to the sauce and cook until heated through, 5 to 10 minutes.
 11. By now the potatoes should be ready. Add them to the sauce just 
before frying the eggs to prevent them from getting soggy. Set aside over low heat.
 12. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
 13. While the eggs ﬁnish, mound the hash into bowls. Slide the eggs 
onto the hash and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. T op with a big handful of arugula. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs.
The brisket keeps very well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 265This dish was inspired by my mom’s Spider-Man Eggs. When we were kids, my brother 
wouldn’t eat anything Spider-Man wouldn’t eat, so according to my mother, this was Spider-Man’s favorite breakfast. It consisted of toasted buttered white bread cubes tossed with smashed soft-boiled eggs and lots of salt. Even now in our thirties, my brother and I still go to our mom’s house sometimes and ask for Spider-Man Eggs. 
But this is a very grown-up version. I call for rye bread, but I think a whole-wheat 
or a yummy sourdough would be a great substitute. I go with chard here, but kale, 
dandelion greens, beet greens, and  collards would all work well instead.
warm breakfast panzanella  
a.k.a. grown-up spider-man eggs
SERVES 2 TO 4
3 cups/170 g cubed rye bread,  
cut into ½-in/12-mm pieces
3 tbsp + 1 tsp extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more for drizzling
1⅛ tsp kosher salt1 chopped yellow onion1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme1 garlic clove1 pinch chile ﬂakes2 apples, unpeeled, sliced3 to 5 tbsp/45 to 55 g unsalted butter6 cups/215 g chopped Swiss chard10 oz/285 g bulk sausage4 to 8 eggsFleur de sel for sprinking1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
2. Scatter the bread on a sheet pan and drizzle with 1 tbsp of the olive 
oil and ½ tsp of the salt. T oast in the oven for 5 to 6 minutes, or until browned.
3. Meanwhile, sauté the onion in a large sauté pan over medium heat 
with 1 tbsp olive oil, ¼ tsp salt, the thyme, garlic, and chile ﬂakes until soft and golden, 10 to 15 minutes. Set aside in a large bowl.
4. In the same pan, over high heat, cook the apples in 1 tbsp of the 
butter and ⅛ tsp salt until soft and golden, 4 to 5 minutes. Set aside with the onion.
5. In the same pan, over high heat, cook the chard in 1 tbsp olive oil 
and the remaining ¼ tsp salt, until wilted, 4 to 5 minutes. Set aside with the onion and apples.
6. In the same pan, over high heat, cook the sausage in 1 tsp olive oil, 
breaking it up with the back of a spoon, until browned, but not quite cooked through.
7. Add the onion, apples, chard mixture, and bread cubes to the pan. 
T oss to combine into a panzanella and heat through. Remove from the heat and set aside.
8. When it comes to frying the eggs, you may need to either work in 
batches or have two pans going at once. Heat 1 tbsp of the butter in a nonstick sauté pan over high heat. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl and gently slide them into the butter. (If you break a yolk, dis-card the egg and try again.) Reduce the heat to medium and cook until the whites are set but the yolks are runny, about 2 minutes. When ready, give the pan a gentle shake to loosen the eggs.
9. While the eggs ﬁnish, mound the panzanella onto plates. Slide the 
eggs onto the panzanella, drizzle with olive oil, and sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel. Repeat with any remaining butter and eggs.
Spider-Man says this is best the moment it’s made.266 / huckleberryThis is a very bright-green dish. Instead of having green juice in the morning and 
 feeling hungry an hour later, make this. If you can’t ﬁnd pea shoots, you can always  use arugula or spinach. If you are avoiding bread, toasted pine nuts would be lovely instead of breadcrumbs. And ﬁnally, if you’re feeling lazy, use ¼ cup/25 g store- bought breadcrumbs—just be sure they’re unseasoned.
This is a very simple dish that’s all about timing. The veggies don’t need long and 
neither do the poached eggs, but you want them to come together at once. So have that game plan in mind and be sure to set out everything you need so you’re not caught doing something like searching for a slotted spoon when the eggs are ready.
poached eggs, pesto, and snap peas
SERVES 2
2 slices good-quality stale bread
2 tsp extra-virgin olive oil, plus 1 tbspKosher salt2 tbsp white vinegar4 eggs3 cups/160 g snap peas,  
ends trimmed by hand
Freshly ground black pepper3 cups/50 g pea shoots1½ cups/300 g Pesto (page 225), 
at room temperature
Fleur de sel for sprinkling 1. Preheat your oven to 350°F/180°C. 
 2. Dice the bread and toss with the 2 tsp olive oil and a large pinch of 
salt. T oast on a sheet pan until dry, crisp, and golden brown, about 30 minutes, depending on the bread.
 3. Meanwhile bring 6 qt/5.7 L water and the vinegar to a simmer in a 
Dutch oven or large saucepan.
 4. Allow the bread to cool, then grind until ﬁne in a food pr o cessor or 
crush by hand. You should have about ¼ cup/25 g. Set aside.
 5. Now we’re going to work back and forth between our eggs and 
our veggies. Be sure your water is gently simmering, not vigorously boiling, and have a slotted spoon and a paper towel–covered plate nearby.
 6. Heat the remaining 1 tbsp olive oil in a large sauté pan over high heat.  7. Meanwhile, start the eggs poaching, two at a time, unless you’re a 
pro. Crack 1 egg into each of two teacups. Give the water a swirl with a spoon and slip an egg into the little vortex you created. This will help the bulk of the white take a compact shape, while whisking away any webby tendrils. Repeat, carefully adding the second egg. Poach for 3 minutes.
 8. While the eggs poach, add the snap peas to the heated pan, season 
with salt and pepper, and sauté for about 1 minute. You want them to be al dente. Add the pea shoots to the pan and sauté until just barely wilted, 1 to 2 minutes.
 9. By now the eggs should be ready. Lift them out of the water with a 
slotted spoon and drain for a moment over the paper towels. Drop your second round of eggs into the water and poach as before.
 10. Pile the veggies into two bowls, top with the poached eggs, spoon 
very, very large spoonfuls of pesto over the eggs, sprinkle with ﬂeur de sel, and top with breadcrumbs. 
Enjoy immediately. Does not keep well.hearty plates with an egg on top  / 267This is the quintessential California breakfast-by-the-beach dish. It should be eaten 
outside with a nice cold beer or some iced tea. You want to be nursing a hangover, or somehow sunning your legs while eating this. If a meal without meat is not complete to you, serve this dish with a side of sausages.
beer-baked eggs with  
peppers and onions
SERVES 2 TO 4
2 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 large onion, sliced1 garlic clove, diced¾ tsp kosher salt½ tsp ground ancho chile½ tsp ground coriander½ tsp cumin seeds3 or 4 red bell peppers, sliced1 jalapeño, sliced into thin coins  
(seeds removed if you prefer it mild)
One 12-oz/350-ml bottle or can  
light-colored beer
4 to 8 eggs8 corn tortillas, best quality availableFleur de sel for sprinkling3 tbsp chopped fresh cilantro2 limes, quartered1. Preheat your oven to 500°F/260°C.
2. In a large ovenproof sauté pan over medium-high heat, combine the 
olive oil, onion, garlic, salt, ancho chile, coriander, and cumin seeds. Sauté, stirring often, until dark brown, about 5 minutes. Add the bell peppers and jalapeño and toss. Add the beer and cook down by about half. Reduce the heat to medium-low, cover, and cook until the peppers and onion are very soft, 12 to 15 minutes longer.
3. Uncover, reduce the heat to low, and make four to eight wells in the 
sauce. Gently crack the eggs into each well. Cover and simmer for 2 to 3 minutes, until the whites begin to set.
4. Quickly transfer to the oven. Bake, uncovered, until the whites set 
but the yolks remain very runny, 2 to 3 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, toast the tortillas with tongs over an open medium ﬂame,  
about 10 seconds per side. Consider working with all four burners at once. Wrap the tortillas in a clean kitchen towel to keep warm.
6. Sprinkle each egg with ﬂeur de sel and the entire dish with cilantro. 
Serve immediately with the warm tortillas and lime wedges.
This dish does not keep well, so just eat it all.10 A.M.
coffee 
and other 
beveragesCoffee is backed up. Actually it’s at a standstill. 
Rosemary has decided to recalibrate the espresso machine because she feels the shots aren’t coming out perfectly. Now everyone has to wait ten min-utes for a latte, maybe longer. This is certainly not the ﬁrst time she has done this during a rush, so I immediately start having our servers give out free cups of drip coffee. That’s what happens at Huck: Things may go wrong, but generally when they do it’s because we’re trying to make something better, and at least we always give out free things to make up for it. It’s a real human-run business.
Rosemary runs our coffee program and our catering 
program, is assistant general manager, buys the wine, and handles about a dozen other things. I’m pretty sure she works around 80 hours a week and stays for hours after we tell her to go home, but the girl has heart and energy for days and I’ve never seen her tired. She is also hilarious and occasionally wears the craziest outﬁts to work, clothes that I would immediately send someone else home to change out of, but which somehow just work for her. When she started as a server, she and I got into a confron-tation on the line because she was moving too fast for her own good and confusing the line guys. I told her to slow down in the way I say everything in the kitchen, directly, and she got defensive and started to cry. I told her to stop crying, in pretty much the same tone, and she cried some more. Once we both calmed down, we made up; mostly because I realized in that moment how much she cared and how much of a fool I would be if I pushed that kind of person away. When we felt the need to take our coffee pro-gram to the next level, we put Rosemary in charge. She trained extensively, became a total coffee geek, 
and even introduced several new drinks to the coffee menu. It doesn’t make sense to bend over backward to make our food the best it can be—training line cooks for months, sourcing the best ingredients from the farmers’ market—and then have mediocre bev-erages. We want everything at Huckleberry to be the best of its kind, and that goes for the coffee and for the people who put their heart and soul into it.
The espresso machine is now recalibrated and 
Rosemary and another barista are doing their best to catch up with tickets. She pulls a beautiful shot, medium length, sweet and creamy, but with just enough earthiness and grittiness to round it out and give it complexity. We may have given away a few dozen cups of coffee, but now we are back on track.
As I go back into the kitchen, my last morning baker 
is done and heading out. I thank her for a good day of work and tell her to enjoy a good, long nap. There’s nothing better than the “baker’s nap.” I rarely take them now because I don’t have to come in at 3 a.m. any longer, and having a young child and four businesses to look over makes it difﬁcult to steal away for a couple of hours in the middle of the day. But I used to love that nap. It’s the great reward for  starting your day so early. You get to go home when everyone else is still at work, when the world is bustling, close your shades, get under your covers, and sleep the sleep of the dead for a couple of solid hours, so you actually have enough energy for that early dinner with your boyfriend or to go out for happy hour with one of your girlfriends. A sweet reward for a job well done.coffee and other beverages  / 271At Huckleberry, we take our hot chocolate very seriously. It’s made with whole milk, 
heavy cream, and rich Valrhona chocolate and topped with Shiho’s Sweet Rose Marsh-mallows (page 272). It cannot be ordered nonfat or low fat, but we hope once people taste it, they realize there’s a method to our madness. This is not the kind of hot chocolate that you’ll drink every day, but when you do drink it, the satisfaction is huge. Sometimes I like to add a vanilla bean to this recipe to add another dimension. From the bottom of my heart I say, have your kids grow up on this decadent treat instead of the watery substitute we were all raised on.
hot chocolate
SERVES 4 TO 6
1½ cups/260 g chopped dark chocolate, 
65% cacao or higher
4 cups/950 ml organic whole milk3 cups/720 ml heavy cream1 tbsp sugar1 pinch kosher salt1. Put the chocolate in a large bowl and set aside.
2. In a medium saucepan, bring the milk, cream, sugar, and salt to a 
boil. Pour the hot milk mixture over the chocolate. Allow it to sit for a moment undisturbed to melt. Then whisk until homogenous. Serve immediately or refrigerate until needed.
This keeps very well, refrigerated, for up to 1 week. It might even get better after the ﬂavors have time to come together , so don ’t hesitate to make this well in advance or to make big batches to keep on hand. When ready to serve, just whisk to ensure it hasn ’t settled, and warm it in a saucepan over medium heat.272 / huckleberryShiho Yoshikawa is one of the most talented women I know. She and I have worked 
together since Tartine, working side by side on almost every station in that kitchen. When I opened Huckleberry, she came down from San Francisco to help for the ﬁrst few months, living in our guest room and working from 3 a.m. to 7 p.m. almost every day. When it was time for her to go home, Josh and I couldn’t imagine our lives, or our restaurants, without her. I knew she always wanted to make ice cream and we knew she was amazing at anything she put her mind to, so we decided to open Sweet Rose Creamery with her. She makes artisanal, farmers’ market–driven ice creams and  sorbets that change weekly, daily, and sometimes hourly. She is crazy in the most perfect way. Well, these are her marshmallows; we use them on our Hot Chocolate (page 271) at Huckleberry, and I assure you, they are well worth the trouble. 
shiho’s sweet rose marshmallows
MAKES 4 CUPS/190 G
½ cup/60 g powdered sugar
½ cup/65 g cornstarch ½ cup/120 ml water1 envelope gelatin1 tbsp + 1 tsp agave syrup⅔ cup/135 g granulated sugar Pinch of kosher salt¾ tsp vanilla extract 1. Stir together the powdered sugar and cornstarch in a small bowl until 
well combined. Set aside. 
 2. Place ¼ cup/60 ml of the water in the bowl of a stand mixer ﬁtted 
with the whisk attachment and sprinkle the gelatin over it to bloom.
 3. Combine the agave syrup, granulated sugar, salt, and remaining  
¼ cup/60 ml water in a small saucepan. Simmer over medium-high heat until the temperature reaches exactly 249°F/120°C on a digital 
thermometer.
 4. Immediately remove from the heat, begin mixing the gelatin mixture 
on low speed, and slowly pour the sugar syrup down the side of the mixer bowl into the gelatin.
 5. Once all the syrup has been added, increase the mixer speed to high 
and whip until tripled in volume. 
 6. After you achieve full volume, reduce the speed to low, add 
the vanilla, and continue to whip until cooled to a warm room temperature. 
 7. Meanwhile, dust two sheet pans evenly with ¼ cup/30 g of the  
powdered sugar mixture by tapping it through a mesh strainer. 
 8. Place a ½-in/12-mm round tip in a piping bag. 9. Once the marshmallow mixture has cooled, ﬁll the piping bag 
and pipe long cylinders onto the dusted sheet pans. Allow about ½ in/12 mm between marshmallow cylinders.
 10. Allow to dry for 30 minutes to 1 hour. 11. Dust the top of the marshmallows generously with the remaining 
powdered sugar mixture and gently roll the cylinders back and forth to coat the sides as well.
 12. Transfer the marshmallow cylinders to a cutting board and cut into 
½-in-/12-mm-long pieces.
 13. T oss in the powdered sugar mixture to coat the cut sides, shaking 
off any excess.
These keep well, in an airtight container , refrigerated, for up to 1 week.coffee and other beverages  / 273A mocha is only as good as the chocolate, the milk, and the espresso you put into 
it. We make our mochas with dark Valrhona chocolate, the best organic milk, and our favorite espresso. Of course, not everyone has access to espresso at home. 
Not to worry, you can make a pretty delicious version of this using ⅔ cup/160 ml drip  coffee instead of the espresso. Just reduce the milk to ⅓ cup/80 ml to make up for the increased water content of the coffee, and add the same amount of chocolate syrup.
This chocolate syrup is super-versatile and can be used throughout this book. 
You’ll  have plenty left over and it w ould be great on top of Chocolate Chocolate 
T eacake (page 94), Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate Mufﬁns (page 53), or as a topping for ice cream.
mocha
SERVES 1
CHOCOLATE SYRUP
½ cup + 2 tbsp/150 ml water
¼ cup + 3 tbsp/85 g sugar¼ cup + 1 tbsp/35 g Dutch processed  
cocoa powder
1 cup/170 g chopped dark chocolate,  
60 to 70% cacao
1 tbsp + 2 tsp agave syrup
SIMPLE SYRUP
½ cup/120 ml water½ cup/100 g sugar
¼ cup/60 ml hot espresso
1 cup/240 ml organic whole milk1. T o make the chocolate syrup: Combine all the ingredients in a small 
saucepan and melt gently over medium-low heat, stirring frequently, 2 to 4 minutes. Set aside.
2. T o make the simple syrup: Combine the water and sugar in a small 
saucepan and heat, stirring occasionally, until dissolved, 1 to 2 min-utes. Set aside.
3. Combine 1 tbsp of the chocolate syrup and 1 tbsp of the simple 
syrup in a mug and top with the hot espresso, stirring to combine. (Reserve the remaining syrups for another use.)
4. If you have an espresso machine, heat and froth the milk with the 
steam wand. If you are not so fortunate, simply heat the milk in a small saucepan over medium heat until hot—if we’re getting  technical, to 150°F/65°C to prevent the milk from scalding and  losing its sweetness. 
5. Pour the hot milk into the coffee mixture and stir until it comes 
together.
The chocolate sauce keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks but will thicken when cold. T o liquefy, warm gently over low heat, as needed. The simple syrup keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.274 / huckleberryThis is a great drink that works well with pretty much any kind of dairy or dairy sub- 
stitute. Make it with whole milk, almond milk, or organic soymilk. The vanilla simple syrup here is a wonderful recipe in its own right. Make a big batch and keep it in your fridge for iced or hot tea or iced coffee. Homemade syrups are night and day compared to any of the overly processed store-bought alternatives, and they are super-simple to make. This recipe makes about 2 cups/480 ml of syrup, so you’ll have plenty left over.
If you don’t have an espresso machine at home, you can still make a pretty deli-
cious latte using use ⅔ cup/160 ml drip coffee and ⅓ cup/80 ml warm milk, instead of the espresso and milk quantities below.
vanilla latte
SERVES 1
VANILLA SYRUP
2 cups/400 g sugar
2 cups/480 ml water1 vanilla bean, split, seeds scraped out, 
pod reserved
¼ cup/60 ml hot espresso
1¼ cups/300 ml organic whole milk1. T o make the vanilla syrup: Combine the sugar, water, and vanilla 
seeds and pod in a small saucepan and heat, whisking occasionally, until the sugar dissolves and the seeds are dispersed. Set aside. 
2. Combine 2 tbsp of the vanilla syrup and the hot espresso in a mug 
and stir to combine. (Reserve the remaining syrup for another use.)
3. If you have an espresso machine, heat and froth the milk with the 
steam wand. If you are not so fortunate, simply heat the milk in a small saucepan over medium heat until hot—if we’re getting tech-nical, to 150°F/65°C to prevent the milk from scalding and losing its sweetness.
4. Pour the hot milk into the coffee mixture and stir until it comes 
together.
The vanilla syrup keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 1 month.coffee and other beverages  / 277When I’m having a hard day, I make one of these. It’s the kind of drink that makes every-
thing right in the world for a few moments. It works really well hot, but shaken over ice with the salty sweetness of the homemade caramel makes a fun and slightly frothy version of those overly sweet drinks that everyone is used to. The caramel sauce recipe  below makes way more than you’d need for a few drinks (about 2 cups/430 ml), but make it anyway; the sauce is fantastic over bread pudding, pancakes, ice cream, hot cereals, and sometimes best right off your ﬁnger for a few quick seconds of bliss.
When making the caramel, be sure to use a medium saucepan instead of a small 
one, even though it doesn’t look like a lot of ingredients. When you add the cream to the hot caramel, it bubbles up a ton and I don’t want anyone getting burned.
If you don’t have an espresso machine at home, you can still make a pretty delicious  
latte using the same amount of caramel sauce, but ⅔ cup/160ml drip coffee and ⅓ cup/ 80 ml warm milk, instead of the espresso and milk quantities below.
iced shaken caramel latte
SERVES 1
CARAMEL SAUCE
2 cups/400 g sugar
1¼ tsp kosher salt1 vanilla bean, split, seeds scraped out, 
pod reserved
3 tbsp water2 cups/480 ml heavy cream,  
at room temperature
¾ cup + 2 tbsp/200 g unsalted butter, 
cubed, at room temperature
1 to 2 generous handfuls of ice
¼ cup/60 ml espresso, at room 
temperature
1¼ cups/300 ml whole organic milk1. T o make the caramel sauce: Cook the sugar, salt, vanilla seeds and 
pod, and water in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring with a wooden spoon occasionally. Cook until all the sugar is melted and has turned a deep brown. Be sure to have the cream close at hand.
2. Turn the heat to low and add the cream and butter. It will bubble like 
crazy; be careful to stay out of its way. Increase the heat to medium and stir until smooth and thickened, about 2 minutes.
3. Set aside at room temperature, stirring every so often to make sure 
it doesn’t separate, and allow to cool.
4. Fill a cocktail shaker three-quarters full with ice. Add the espresso, 
2 tbsp of the cooled caramel sauce, and the milk. Shake vigorously for about 15 seconds. Drizzle some caramel sauce around the rim of a tall glass and pour the contents of the shaker into it. (Reserve the rest of the sauce for another use.)
The caramel sauce keeps well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks but will thicken when cold. T o liquefy, warm gently over low heat, as needed.278 / huckleberryWe didn’t serve chai lattes at Huckleberry for a long time because we pride ourselves 
on making everything from scratch and didn’t want to use one of those overly sweet prepackaged powders that most places use. We were a bit intimidated by making our own chai until we started playing with it and came up with this simple but super- ﬂavorful recipe. Make the chai in advance so you always have it in your fridge as an easy treat to throw together. The vanilla syrup here lends a rich sweetness to the drink, and by adding it to each drink separately, you are always in control of how sweet you make it. And you can always substitute honey or agave instead. This recipe makes about 4 cups/960 ml of chai tea, so you’ll have plenty left over.
chai latte
SERVES 1
CHAI TEA
5 cinnamon sticks
3 tbsp + 1 tsp whole allspice berries3 tbsp cardamom pods2 tbsp fennel seeds1 tbsp + 1 tsp whole cloves1 tbsp + 1 tsp black peppercorns6 star anise podsOne 1-in/2.5-cm piece/20 g  
fresh ginger
8 cups/2 L water6 good-quality black tea bags
¾ cup/180 ml whole organic milk
1 to 2 tbsp Vanilla Syrup (see page 274)1. Preheat your oven to 300°F/150°C. 
2. T oast the cinnamon, allspice, cardamom pods, fennel, cloves, 
pepper corns, and anise on a sheet pan until fragrant, 5 to 10 minutes.
3. Combine the toasted spices, ginger, and water in a medium sauce-
pan and simmer over high heat until reduced by half. Remove from the heat, add the tea bags, and steep for 3 minutes. Immediately strain, discarding the whole spices and tea bags.
4. Heat the milk and ¾ cup/180 ml of the chai tea in a small sauce-
pan over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally. (Reserve the  remaining chai tea for future servings.) 
5. Pour in a mug and add the vanilla syrup to taste.
The chai tea keeps very well, refrigerated, for up to 2 weeks.280 / huckleberrymy apologies
DEAR JOEL:
I’m sorry you felt it was inappropriate when  
we posted your mostly naked, spread-eagle,  Ray-Ban-wearing Face book proﬁle picture on the ofﬁce desktop. And I’m sorry you lost your eyebrows for two months, but we appreciated you lighting the pilot for us. I’m also sorry you thought it was best to get a facial peel the day before Thanks-giving, our busiest catering day of the year. 
You’ve made us smile continuously since 
the day we opened, and Huckleberry would be nothing without you. I love you.
DEAR ROSEMARY:
I’m sorry that guitar riffs and brunch don’t go together. And I’m sorry I made fun of your earth nature mama shawl. I’m also sorry I told you to “F*#^ off and get the f*#^ out of my kitchen!” so many times. I obviously didn’t mean it and I’m glad you stuck around. Every day for one reason or another I am so grateful you are on this team. I love you.
DEAR NICOLE:
I am sorry you keep getting mistaken for me.  No one should have to deal with that but me.
DEAR CATERER WHO PASSES OUR 
DESSERTS OFF AS HERS:
I’m sorry we couldn’t make the cherry tarts 
you promised your client during winter when cherries were out of season.
DEAR LONGTIME REGULAR:
Rosemary is very sorry she told you to “F*#^ off” because you wouldn’t get up from your table that she had promised to someone else and she didn’t know who you were. I’m pretty sure she has picked up a few bad  habits from me so I’m sorry, too. We hope the piece of chocolate cake we sent to you made up for it.
DEAR ARTHUR:
I’m sorry you pocket-dialed me from the bar at 11 p.m. the night before you called in sick. I’m sorry cilantro and parsley look so much alike, it really is confusing. But I’m not sorry that we played Beyoncé’s “If I Were a Boy” every time you walked in late and hungover at 4 a.m. to work side by side with the all-girl bakery team. It’s still funny. I know whatever you choose to create will be amazing; you have more courage and heart than anyone I know.
DEAR GRUMPY OLD MAN:
I’m sorry you don’t like our granola. Fortu-nately, there are dozens of other granola options available to you around town. You never have to buy ours again, but we’d appreciate it if you stopped telling us how much you dislike it.
DEAR MATT:
I’m sorry Huckleberry is such a hen house, in which we spend the ﬁrst thirty minutes of every meeting talking about Joel’s love  life, Rosie’s new cape, Anastasia’s preferred  juice of the day, Laurel’s new dye job, or with Josh and me watching a video of Milo on our phones. We’re sorry we’re never going to be more efﬁcient. Thanks for put-ting up with us, because it just wouldn’t be the same without you. You are incredibly  talented.
DEAR GIRLS:
I’m sorry I blow through the kitchen, throw half your things out, tell Laurel everything that’s wrong, and just walk out. I really do 
appreciate you and everything you do. You are the A team. You’re the best team we’ve ever had and we’re blessed to have you.
DEAR ANASTASIA:
I’m sorry that I’ve turned you into a sous chef’s assistant, a baker’s assistant, and an organizer of my sometimes rough-around-the-edges kitchen staff. I guess I took the term director of operations  a little too 
liberally, but you’re just so damn good at keeping things together and making them run. I believe you can ﬁx anything and you generally do.
DEAR BANANA LADY:
I’m sorry you don’t like bananas and we do. And I’m sorry that all our  mufﬁns don’t weigh the exact same amount, but I have to say that’s so weird that you took them home and weighed them.
DEAR ETHAN:
Laurel’s sorry for all the dinners served way  too late, or not at all, and that virtually every  one of them consisted of fried eggs over various cereals, sandwiches, and plates. She  is sorry that she rendered every countertop  in the kitchen unusable for 4 months straight due to the stacks of dry ingredients  and prooﬁng breads that covered them. Thanks for putting up with it all. She loves you so much.
DEAR RECIPE TESTERS: 
Aaron Ranf, Alex Nishizawa, Amber Banks, Amy Bray, Amy Wruble, Anastasia Smith, Ayala Chocron, Betty Urban, Caitlin Coyne,  Callie Rogers, Cathy Bunin, Coco Kislinger, Colby Goff, Colleen Higgins, Courtney Sheils,  my apologies  / 281Daina Donovitch, David Katz, Deanne  
Ecklund, Debbie Irving, Drew Steinberg, Emily Roth, Esther Hillebrand, Grace Bush- Vineberg, Heather Ferguson Sperry, Heather  Taylor, Jaclyn Rosenson, Jake Push insky, Jenny Levin, Jesse Nathan, Joel Dixon, Joseph Capponi, Kara Corwin, Karen Thomsen, Kate Farrell, Katherine Kurtz, Kathryn Weil, Kathy Katz, Kelsey Brito, Leo  Pollock, Lily Sais, Linda Goff, Lucas Nathan,  Mary Farrell, Megan D’Amour, Melissa Levin,  Melissa Park, Nigel Briand, Nina Rubin, Shari Call, Sheila Kleinknecht, Stephan Nathan, Stevan Goff, Stu Bloomberg, T ed Pushinsky, T essa Perliss, Tracy Erland Zehnder, Xenia Zampolli.
I’m sorry for those crazy only-partially 
written recipes, with ingredients missing and crazy bake times. Thank you for being willing to trash your kitchens and eat too many pastries and even more fried eggs for us. Your feedback made this book so much better.
DEAR KAREN:
So sorry for all the last-minute calls in the dead of winter begging for out-of-season fruits from the Southern Hemisphere. If we  weren’t testing these recipes a week before  the book was due, we would never even think  of it. We know it was hard to ﬁnd and that, as always, you did it with love and care.
DEAR HUCKLEBERRY INVESTORS:
I’m sorry you still wait in long breakfast lines to order your fried egg sand wiches, but we hope you enjoy seeing how crowded  Huckleberry has become. I can’t tell you how grateful I am that you believed in my crazy plan and helped make it a reality.DEAR FRENCH LADY:
I’m sorry we had to ban you from the bak-ery, although you are lucky because I was seconds away from performing a citizen’s arrest. There’s another bakery down the street that you will be much happier at, I promise.
DEAR BEN:
Josh and I are sorry for calling you a million times over the past few years and asking you to do the impossible like ﬁx a ﬂooding water heater in less than an hour or help us open our bakery on a budget and timeline that most people would laugh at. Your smile and enthusiasm make us so happy every time you walk in the door. We’re also sorry to Maggie that we often replaced your healthful meal plan with a BBQ pork sandwich, but we do so get a kick out of  watching you enjoy yourself while you eat it. You truly are the best con-tractor in L.A. and we’re so happy to have 
you as a part of our family.
DEAR MELISSA:
I’m sorry for all the unintelligible scrawled recipes you were forced to decipher and type. I am sorry for all the calls at 6 a.m. or midnight asking you how to use my printer or to remind me what time we’re meeting the next day. I am sorry for sending you to four or ﬁve markets to gather all the ingre-dients I needed for testing. I am not sorry that I found you to help with the book, which wouldn’t have gotten done without you. Thank you, thank you, thank you!
DEAR JOURNALISTS AND FOOD 
CRITICS OF THE L.A. BASIN:
I’m sorry that I often can’t think before 
speaking.DEAR COLBY:
I’m sorry I grill you about your love life everytime I see you. I’m also sorry that I never change out of my PJs whenever you come over for a budget meeting; it’s a real testament to how comfortable I feel around you. You’re the best partner in the world and I thank you for taking Josh and my crazy dreams and helping ground them in reality. You have an amazing ability to do this without making us compromise any specialness along the way.
DEAR LAUREL:
I’m sorry I can be such an annoying person to work with. I can’t believe you spend as much time working with me as you do and still come back for more. I’m not sorry that I chose you to be my sous chef a few years back. It was one of the best decisions of my life. You are an insanely talented, generous, funny, beautiful, brilliant woman. You are, and always will be, my family.
DEAR SHIRLEY:
I’m sorry I refused to bring back the Rocky Road Bread Pudding, but luckily I know you love a strong woman that holds her ground. I’m not sorry for my mother meeting you and your strong will to bring Josh and me together. Thank you for raising such an amazing man and loving your grandson  so much.
DEAR GABE AND RACHEL:
I’m sorry I like to eat dinner around the same time you guys like to ﬁnish lunch but I will say the few meals we can actually sync up are always ﬁlled with the best conversation and the most love. You guys are simply the greatest.282 / huckleberryDEAR LETTIE:
I’m sorry I still have such a hard time leaving 
Milo every day. If I didn’t know he was being fed and loved by you with as much care as I do, then I couldn’t do it at all. Thank you for loving my son as if he were your own, and for making this book and any continuation of my career possible. My family is blessed to have you in our lives.
DEAR OLIVER:
I’m sorry that I forced you to eat my cook-ing school ﬁnal project. Pan-fried lemon chicken breast with avocado sauce and mango chutney. That was gross. I will never forget you saying how much you loved it, and you showing up at my graduation, and for always being one of my big gest support ers. There is no better feeling than when your big brother tells you he’s proud of you—thank you for saying it so many times. You’re the greatest.
DEAR LUKE:
I am sorry I made fun of you for being so very slow in the kitchen and com plaining about your arm hurting when you made aioli. You’re one of the most talented, insightful people I know and your taste is always spot-on. The way you look and act in the world is a thing of beauty and is an inspiration to be around.
DEAR GRANDPA IRV AND 
GRANDMA EVELYN:
I’m sorry you weren’t here to see me open 
Huckleberry. I know you would have been so proud. I know you would have been in the dining room regularly screaming “That’s my granddaughter, she owns this 
place. Isn’t she beautiful!” I’m also sorry that Grandpa didn’t get a chance to sit at the end of the communal table and motion to everyone’s unﬁnished plates yelling “Pass it over here, I’ll ﬁnish it.” You were the ﬁrst people to show me that life is about talking too much, laughing too loud, and hugging just a little too tightly.
DEAR MOM AND DAD:
I am sorry for the millions of calls during the ﬁrst year of opening Huckleberry when I told you it was too much and I needed to quit and sell the place immediately. Thank you for listening, not taking anything too seriously, and always being willing to show up any time of day to help. I know other people may say this, but I truly think you are the greatest parents on Earth; you always make me feel loved and supported and have always been there to remind me to work hard but never too much so I don’t have time to laugh at myself. Love and gratitude is an understatement for what I feel when I’m with my family.
DEAR JOSH:
I am sorry that writing this book meant that I could justify skipping every manager meeting. I think we both know it was some-times for the book, but more often for a play date with Milo. I love you and you are the greatest partner in the world. I would truly be nothing without your love and support, and there is no greater gift I could receive than being able to walk through this life next to you.
DEAR MILO:
I’m sorry that as the book dragged on, you began to associate the sight of Laurel, Melissa, or me putting on an apron at home  as going to work, and had to make it very clear that you did not approve. I know that it may have been confusing, but the last six months of working primarily from home and always being a few steps from you have been the best six months of my life. I’m sorry that you will be getting dragged to work with me again soon. Luckily with all your new egg-cracking skills you’ll be super-helpful. I am so blessed to have a front-row seat to the movie of your life; every day I wake up more excited than the last to see what will happen next. Watching you in the world is an inspiration. I love you.
DEAR BABY TALLULA:
I write this on my last day of edits as your little 6-week-old self lies in my arms. I waited what felt like forever for you, but now that you’re here I can’t remember a world without you. I love you. I’m counting the days until you, me, and Milo are all in the kitchen baking cookies, with the two of you ﬁghting over who gets to lick the bowl just like I did with my brothers.index  / 283index
a
Advance preparation, 29–30
Aioli, 24, 224
Almond ﬂour
Apple Buckwheat Cake, 84
Blueberry Nectarine Crisp, 159
Chocolate Banana Walnut Cake, 86
Chocolate Chunk Mufﬁns, 36
Gluten-Free Chocolate Hazelnut Cake, 87
Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake, 91
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble, 154
Vegan Gluten-Free Pancakes with Maple 
Blueberry Compote, 190
Almond meal
Lemon Pistachio Cake, 83
Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake, 91
Almond paste
Chocolate Almond Mufﬁns, 38
Almonds
Almond Milk, 206
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Vanilla Apricot Tart, 146
Anchovy Dressing, Smashed Avocado T oast 
with Hard-Boiled Eggs and, 234
Apples
Apple Buckwheat Cake, 84
Apple Cinnamon Crumble Mufﬁns, 43
Apple Cinnamon Flapjacks, 195
Apple Cinnamon Hand Pies, 130
Baked Apples with Oat Crumble, 152
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Muesli, 205
Vanilla Apple Butter, 132
Apricots
Apricot–Vanilla Bean Pound Cake, 93
Vanilla Apricot Tart, 146
Asparagus, Roasted, Polenta with Crispy 
Prosciutto, Eggs, and, 254
Avocado T oast, Smashed, with Hard-Boiled Eggs and Anchovy Dressing, 
234b
Bacon, 24. See also  Pancetta
Bacon Cheddar Mufﬁns, 50
Brussels Sprouts and Bacon Frittata, 171
Egg Huck Mufﬁn, 221
Figs, Frisée, Bacon, and Egg on T oast, 233
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy 
Slaw Tartine, 237
Huck’s Fried Egg Sandwich, 218
Maple Bacon Biscuits, 60
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
Onion, Potato, and Bacon Galette, 141
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238
Bagels
Cinnamon Raisin Bagels, 114–15
Honey Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Milo & Olive Bagels, 111–13
planning ahead for, 29
Baked Apples with Oat Crumble, 152
Bananas
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Banana Poppy Seed Mufﬁns, 39
Chocolate Banana Walnut Cake, 86
Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate 
Mufﬁns, 53
Muesli, 205
Barley Porridge with Spring Onions, Kale, and Sausage, 
212 –14
Bars, Black and Blue Oat, 160
Basil
Pesto, 225
Béchamel, 29, 243
Beef
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato 
Hash, 262 –64
Beer
Beer-Baked Eggs with Peppers and 
Onions, 267
Beer-Braised Pork on T oast with an Egg on T op, 
230 –32
Beets
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251
Beignets
Black Pepper Beignets, 184
Powdered Sugar Beignets, 182Bell peppers
Beer-Baked Eggs with Peppers and 
Onions, 267
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Berries. See also individual berries
Mixed Berry Cobbler, 155
Beverages
Almond Milk, 206
Chai Latte, 278
Hot Chocolate, 271
Iced Shaken Caramel Latte, 277
Mocha, 273
Vanilla Latte, 274
Biscuits
advance preparation for, 30
Comfort Food Biscuits, 62
Herb Biscuits, 65
making, 58–59
Maple Bacon Biscuits, 60
Three-Cheese Rye Biscuits, 63
Blackberries
Black and Blue Oat Bars, 160
Black Pepper Beignets, 184
Blueberries
Black and Blue Oat Bars, 160
Blueberry Bran Mufﬁns, 40
Blueberry Buttermilk Scones, 66
Blueberry Cornmeal Cake, 80
Blueberry Jam, 241
Blueberry Nectarine Crisp, 159
Fresh Blueberry Brioche, 108 –10
Hot Farro Porridge with Blueberries and 
T oasted Walnuts, 208
Vegan Gluten-Free Pancakes with Maple Blueberry Compote, 
190
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato Hash, 
262 –64
Braising, 30
Bread, 21. See also  Brioche; Cornbread; 
Sandwiches
-crumbs, homemade, 26
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
planning ahead for, 29
Vanilla French T oast with Brown Sugar–
Cranberry Sauce, 198284 / huckleberryWarm Breakfast Panzanella a.k.a. 
Grown-Up Spider-Man Eggs, 265
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried T omato Strata, 
168
Brioche, 105 –7
Fresh Blueberry Brioche, 108 –10
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
My Mom’s Egg in a Hole, 226
planning ahead for, 29
Vanilla French T oast with Brown Sugar–Cranberry Sauce, 
198
Brisket, Braised, and Fingerling Potato Hash, 
262 –64
Broccoli, Sprouting, Quinoa, Baby Carrots, and Eggs, 
256
Brown Betty, Kabocha Squash and Sausage, 
162
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes, 193
Brussels Sprouts and Bacon Frittata, 171
Buckwheat Cake, Apple, 84
Bulgur Porridge, Cinnamon-Sugar, 207
Butter, 23
Butter and Herb Potatoes, 172
Buttermilk, 23
c
Cabbage
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy 
Slaw Tartine, 237
Cakes
advance preparation for, 30
Apple Buckwheat Cake, 84
Apricot–Vanilla Bean Pound Cake, 93
Blueberry Cornmeal Cake, 80
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Chocolate Banana Walnut Cake, 86
Chocolate Chocolate T eacake, 94
Gluten-Free Chocolate Hazelnut Cake, 
87
Lemon Kumquat Poppy T eacake, 97
Lemon Pistachio Cake, 83
lining pans for, 78–79
Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake, 91
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Persimmon Spice Cake, 92
tips for, 28
Caramel
Caramel Sauce, 277
Iced Shaken Caramel Latte, 277Carrots
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Quinoa, Baby Carrots, Sprouting Broc-
coli, and Eggs, 256
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251
Chai Latte, 278
Cheddar cheese
Bacon Cheddar Mufﬁns, 50
Cornbread Pudding, 164
Herb Biscuits, 65
Three-Cheese Rye Biscuits, 63
Cheese. See individual cheeses
Cherry T omato–Goat Cheese Cobbler, 157
Chicken stock, 26–27
Chocolate, 23
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Chocolate Almond Mufﬁns, 38
Chocolate Banana Walnut Cake, 86
Chocolate Chocolate T eacake, 94
Chocolate Chunk Mufﬁns, 36
Chocolate-Glazed Cake Doughnuts, 181
Chocolate Granola, 202
Chocolate Hazelnut Scones, 75
Chocolate Syrup, 273
Cocoa Nib Mufﬁns with Dark Chocolate 
Glaze, 35
Gluten-Free Chocolate Hazelnut Cake, 87
Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate Mufﬁns, 
53
Hot Chocolate, 271
Mocha, 273
Warm Chocolate Rice Pudding, 215
Cinnamon
Cinnamon Raisin Bagels, 114–15
Cinnamon-Sugar Bulgur Porridge, 207
Cinnamon-Sugar Doughnuts, 176
Cobblers
advance preparation for, 30
Cherry T omato–Goat Cheese Cobbler, 
157
Mixed Berry Cobbler, 155
Cocoa Nib Mufﬁns with Dark Chocolate 
Glaze, 35
Coffee
Chocolate Chocolate T eacake, 94
Iced Shaken Caramel Latte, 277
Mocha, 273
Vanilla Latte, 274
Coffee Cake, Old-Fashioned, 91
Color, importance of, 28
Comfort Food Biscuits, 62Corn
Cornbread Pudding, 164
Corn, Cherry T omato, and Spinach Hash, 
260
Corn Porridge with Strawberry Compote 
and Greek Yogurt, 210
Corn, Spinach, and Cherry T omato Quiche, 
126 –27
Fresh Corn Cornbread, 167
Laurel’s Hoecakes, 197
Sweet Corn Mufﬁns, 48
Cornbread
Cornbread Pudding, 164
Fresh Corn Cornbread, 167
Cornmeal
Apple Buckwheat Cake, 84
Apple Cinnamon Flapjacks, 195
Bacon Cheddar Mufﬁns, 50
Blueberry Cornmeal Cake, 80
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes, 193
Cornbread Pudding, 164
Corn Porridge with Strawberry Compote 
and Greek Yogurt, 210
English Mufﬁns, 102
Fresh Corn Cornbread, 167
Honey Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Huckleberry Gluten-Free Flour Mix, 55
Laurel’s Hoecakes, 197
Lemon Cornmeal Mufﬁns with Lemon Glaze, 
46
Multigrain Pancakes, 191
Polenta with Roasted Asparagus, Crispy Prosciutto, and Eggs, 
254
Sweet Corn Mufﬁns, 48
T omato Leek Cornmeal Crostata, 142 –43
Vegan Gluten-Free Pancakes with Maple Blueberry Compote, 
190
Cranberry–Brown Sugar Sauce, Vanilla French T oast with, 
198
Cream cheese
Comfort Food Biscuits, 62
Cured Salmon Platter, 118
Fig–Brown Sugar Mufﬁns, 45
Three-Cheese Rye Biscuits, 63
Crème fraîche, 23
Crisp, Blueberry Nectarine, 159
Croque monsieur
Traditional Croque Monsieur, 242
Vegetarian Croque, 245
Crostatas
advance preparation for, 30
Plum Multigrain Crostata, 144 –45
T omato Leek Cornmeal Crostata, 142 –43index  / 285Crumble topping, 26
Cured Salmon Platter, 118
Currants
Zucchini Mufﬁns, 49
d
Dates
Almond Milk, 206
Muesli, 205
Persimmon Spice Cake, 92
Doughnuts
Chocolate-Glazed Cake Doughnuts, 181
Cinnamon-Sugar Doughnuts, 176
glazes for, 178 –79
Jelly Doughnuts, 178
e
Eggplant
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Eggs, 23
Beer-Baked Eggs with Peppers and 
Onions, 267
Beer-Braised Pork on T oast with an Egg on T op, 
230 –32
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato Hash, 
262 –64
Brussels Sprouts and Bacon Frittata, 171
Corn, Cherry T omato, and Spinach Hash, 
260
Egg Huck Mufﬁn, 221
Egg Wash, 74
Figs, Frisée, Bacon, and Egg on T oast, 233
Green Eggs and Ham, 223
Huck’s Fried Egg Sandwich, 218
Lentils with Roasted Cherry T omatoes and Sunny-Side-Up Eggs, 
259
Mushroom and Romanesco Frittata, 169
Mushrooms, Leeks, and Fried Eggs over Wild Rice, 
257
My Mom’s Egg in a Hole, 226
Poached Eggs, Pesto, and Snap Peas, 266
Polenta with Roasted Asparagus, Crispy Prosciutto, and Eggs, 
254
Quinoa, Baby Carrots, Sprouting Broc-coli, and Eggs, 
256
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Roasted Potato, Spinach, and Goat Cheese with an Egg on T op, 
249
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251Roasted Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan and Eggs, 
252
Smashed Avocado T oast with Hard-Boiled Eggs and Anchovy Dressing, 
234
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238
Warm Breakfast Panzanella a.k.a. Grown-Up Spider-Man Eggs, 
265
English Mufﬁns, 102
Green Eggs and Ham, 223
Everyday Flaky Dough, 122
f
Farro Porridge, Hot, with Blueberries and T oasted Walnuts, 
208
Figs
Fig–Brown Sugar Mufﬁns, 45
Figs, Frisée, Bacon, and Egg on T oast, 233
Flaky dough
Everyday Flaky Dough, 122
Savory Flaky Dough, 125
Whole-Wheat Flaky Dough, 124
Flour. See also individual ﬂours
brushing off excess, 28
sifting, 28–29
Freezing, 25
French T oast, Vanilla, with Brown Sugar–
Cranberry Sauce, 198
Fresh Blueberry Brioche, 108 –10
Fresh Corn Cornbread, 167
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy Slaw Tartine, 
237
Frisée, Figs, Bacon, and Egg on T oast, 233
Frittatas
Brussels Sprouts and Bacon Frittata, 171
Mushroom and Romanesco Frittata, 169
Fritters, Lemon Ricotta, 185
Fruits. See also individual fruits
Granola, 202
seasonal, 21
seconds, 21
g
Galettes
advance preparation for, 30
Grapefruit Galette, 137
Mini Strawberry Galettes, 133
Onion, Potato, and Bacon Galette, 141
Quince and Goat Cheese Galette, 138Glazes
Chocolate Glaze, 181
Dark Chocolate Glaze, 35
Lemon Glaze, 46
Nutella Glaze, 178
Peanut Butter Glaze, 179
Strawberry Glaze, 179
Sugar Glaze, 179
Vanilla Glaze, 178
Gluten-free baking, 26
Gluten-Free Chocolate Hazelnut Cake, 87
Gluten-Free Flour Mix, Huckleberry, 55
Gluten-Free Strawberry Jam Mufﬁns, 54–55
Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate 
Mufﬁns, 53
Goat cheese
Cherry T omato–Goat Cheese Cobbler, 157
Quince and Goat Cheese Galette, 138
Roasted Potato, Spinach, and Goat 
Cheese with an Egg on T op, 249
Grains, 24. See also individual grains
Granola, 202
Grapefruit Galette, 137
Green Eggs and Ham, 223
Greens, fresh, 29
Gruyère cheese, 24
Black Pepper Beignets, 184
Huck’s Fried Egg Sandwich, 218
Monte Cristo, 239
Traditional Croque Monsieur, 242
Vegetarian Croque, 245
h
Ham
Green Eggs and Ham, 223
Monte Cristo, 239
Polenta with Roasted Asparagus, Crispy 
Prosciutto, and Eggs, 254
Traditional Croque Monsieur, 242
Hand Pies, Apple Cinnamon, 130
Hash
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato 
Hash, 262 –64
Corn, Cherry T omato, and Spinach Hash, 
260
Hazelnuts
Chocolate Hazelnut Scones, 75
Gluten-Free Chocolate Hazelnut Cake, 87
toasting, 26
Herb Biscuits, 65286 / huckleberryHoney Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Hot Chocolate, 271
Hot Farro Porridge with Blueberries and 
T oasted Walnuts, 208
Huckleberry Gluten-Free Flour Mix, 55
Huck’s Fried Egg Sandwich, 218
i
Iced Shaken Caramel Latte, 277
j
Jam
Blueberry Jam, 241
Gluten-Free Strawberry Jam Mufﬁns, 
54–55
Jelly Doughnuts, 178
Monte Cristo, 239
Raspberry Preserves, 70
Spicy T omato Jam, 211
Strawberry Jam, 55
Walnut Jam Scones, 69
Jelly Doughnuts, 178
k
Kabocha Squash and Sausage Brown Betty, 
162
Kale
Barley Porridge with Spring Onions, Kale, 
and Sausage, 212 –14
Kabocha Squash and Sausage Brown Betty, 
162
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238
Kumquat Poppy T eacake, Lemon, 97
l
Latte
Chai Latte, 278
Iced Shaken Caramel Latte, 277
Vanilla Latte, 274
Laurel’s Hoecakes, 197
Leeks
Mushrooms, Leeks, and Fried Eggs over 
Wild Rice, 257
T omato Leek Cornmeal Crostata, 142 –43
Vegetarian Croque, 245
Lemons
Lemon Cornmeal Mufﬁns with Lemon 
Glaze, 46
Lemon Kumquat Poppy T eacake, 97Lemon Pistachio Cake, 83
Lemon Ricotta Fritters, 185
Lentils with Roasted Cherry T omatoes and Sunny-Side-Up Eggs, 
259
m
Maple syrup
Maple Bacon Biscuits, 60
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
Maple Blueberry Compote, 190
Marshmallows, Shiho’s Sweet Rose, 272
Measuring, 29–30
Milo & Olive Bagels, 111–13
Mini Strawberry Galettes, 133
Mixed Berry Cobbler, 155
Mocha, 273
Monte Cristo, 239
Muesli, 205
Mufﬁns
advance preparation for, 30
Apple Cinnamon Crumble Mufﬁns, 43
Bacon Cheddar Mufﬁns, 50
Banana Poppy Seed Mufﬁns, 39
Blueberry Bran Mufﬁns, 40
Chocolate Almond Mufﬁns, 38
Chocolate Chunk Mufﬁns, 36
Cocoa Nib Mufﬁns with Dark Chocolate 
Glaze, 35
English Mufﬁns, 102
Fig–Brown Sugar Mufﬁns, 45
Gluten-Free Strawberry Jam Mufﬁns, 
54–55
Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate Mufﬁns, 
53
Lemon Cornmeal Mufﬁns with Lemon Glaze, 
46
Pear Ginger Mufﬁns, 44
Sweet Corn Mufﬁns, 48
tips for, 29
Vanilla Raspberry Mufﬁns, 41
Zucchini Mufﬁns, 49
Multigrain recipes
Honey Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Multigrain Pancakes, 191
Plum Multigrain Crostata, 144 –45
Mushrooms
Mushroom and Romanesco Frittata, 169
Mushrooms, Leeks, and Fried Eggs over 
Wild Rice, 257
My Dad’s Pancakes, 188
My Mom’s Egg in a Hole, 226n
Nectarine Crisp, Blueberry, 159
Nutella Glaze, 178
Nuts. See also individual nuts
Granola, 202
toasting, 26
o
Oat ﬂour
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Huckleberry Gluten-Free Flour Mix, 55
Multigrain Pancakes, 191
Oats
Apple Cinnamon Crumble Mufﬁns, 43
Baked Apples with Oat Crumble, 152
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Black and Blue Oat Bars, 160
Granola, 202
Mixed Berry Cobbler, 155
Muesli, 205
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble, 154
Steel-Cut Oats with Homemade Almond 
Milk, 206
Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake, 91
Onions
caramelizing, 26
Onion, Potato, and Bacon Galette, 141
Oven, calibrating, 25
p
Pancakes
Apple Cinnamon Flapjacks, 195
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes, 193
Laurel’s Hoecakes, 197
Multigrain Pancakes, 191
My Dad’s Pancakes, 188
Ricotta Griddlecakes, 196
tips for, 28
Vegan Gluten-Free Pancakes with Maple 
Blueberry Compote, 190
Pancetta
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, 
and Egg Tartine, 238
Pans, 25
Panzanella, Warm Breakfast, 265
Parbaking, 28index  / 287Parmesan cheese
Roasted Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan 
and Eggs, 252
Three-Cheese Rye Biscuits, 63
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried T omato Strata, 
168
Pastry Cream, 148
Peaches
Peach Squares, 129
Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble, 154
Peanut Butter Glaze, 179
Pears
Pear Ginger Mufﬁns, 44
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Peas, Snap, Poached Eggs, and Pesto, 266
Pecans
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
toasting, 26
Persimmon Spice Cake, 92
Pesto, 225
Pies, Apple Cinnamon Hand, 130
Pistachio Cake, Lemon, 83
Plum Multigrain Crostata, 144 –45
Poached Eggs, Pesto, and Snap Peas, 266
Polenta. See Cornmeal
Poppy seeds
Banana Poppy Seed Mufﬁns, 39
Honey Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Lemon Kumquat Poppy T eacake, 97
Pork. See also  Bacon; Ham; Pancetta; 
Sausage
Beer-Braised Pork on T oast with an Egg 
on T op, 230 –32
Porridge
Barley Porridge with Spring Onions, Kale, 
and Sausage, 212 –14
Cinnamon-Sugar Bulgur Porridge, 207
Corn Porridge with Strawberry Compote and Greek Yogurt, 
210
Hot Farro Porridge with Blueberries and T oasted Walnuts, 
208
Potatoes
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato 
Hash, 262 –64
Butter and Herb Potatoes, 172
Onion, Potato, and Bacon Galette, 141
Roasted Potato, Spinach, and Goat Cheese with an Egg on T op, 
249
Pots, 25
Pound Cake, Apricot–Vanilla Bean, 93
Powdered Sugar Beignets, 182
Prosciutto. See  HamPuddings
Cornbread Pudding, 164
Maple Bacon Bread Pudding, 163
Warm Chocolate Rice Pudding, 215
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried 
T omato Strata, 168
q
Quiche, Corn, Spinach, and Cherry T omato, 
126 –27
Quince and Goat Cheese Galette, 138
Quinoa
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes, 193
Quinoa, Baby Carrots, Sprouting Broc-
coli, and Eggs, 256
r
Raisins
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Cinnamon Raisin Bagels, 114–15
Muesli, 205
Mushrooms, Leeks, and Fried Eggs over 
Wild Rice, 257
Persimmon Spice Cake, 92
Whole-Wheat Raisin Scones, 72
Zucchini Mufﬁns, 49
Raspberries
Raspberry Preserves, 70
Vanilla Raspberry Mufﬁns, 41
Walnut Jam Scones, 69
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Rice
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes, 193
Warm Chocolate Rice Pudding, 215
Ricotta cheese
Apricot–Vanilla Bean Pound Cake, 93
Blueberry Cornmeal Cake, 80
Lemon Cornmeal Mufﬁns with Lemon 
Glaze, 46
Lemon Ricotta Fritters, 185
Ricotta Griddlecakes, 196
Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble, 154
Roasted Potato, Spinach, and Goat Cheese with an Egg on T op, 
249
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251
Roasted Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan and Eggs, 
252
Romanesco and Mushroom Frittata, 169
Rye Biscuits, Three-Cheese, 63s
Salmon Platter, Cured, 118
Salt, 21, 23, 29
Sandwiches
advance preparation for, 30
Beer-Braised Pork on T oast with an Egg 
on T op, 230 –32
Egg Huck Mufﬁn, 221
Figs, Frisée, Bacon, and Egg on T oast, 233
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy Slaw Tartine, 
237
Green Eggs and Ham, 223
Huck’s Fried Egg Sandwich, 218
Monte Cristo, 239
My Mom’s Egg in a Hole, 226
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Smashed Avocado T oast with Hard-Boiled Eggs and Anchovy Dressing, 
234
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238
Traditional Croque Monsieur, 242
Vegetarian Croque, 245
Sauces
Béchamel, 29, 243
Brown Sugar–Cranberry Sauce, 198
Caramel Sauce, 277
Pesto, 225
Sausage
Barley Porridge with Spring Onions, Kale, 
and Sausage, 212 –14
Kabocha Squash and Sausage Brown Betty, 
162
Warm Breakfast Panzanella a.k.a. Grown-Up Spider-Man Eggs, 
265
Savory Flaky Dough, 125
Scales, 25
Scones
advance preparation for, 30
Blueberry Buttermilk Scones, 66
Chocolate Hazelnut Scones, 75
making, 58–59
Walnut Jam Scones, 69
Whole-Wheat Raisin Scones, 72
Shiho’s Sweet Rose Marshmallows, 272
Sifting, 28–29
Simple Syrup, 273
Smashed Avocado T oast with Hard-Boiled 
Eggs and Anchovy Dressing, 234
Sous vide, 27
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238288 / huckleberrySpicy T omato Jam, 211
Spinach
Corn, Cherry T omato, and Spinach Hash, 
260
Corn, Spinach, and Cherry T omato 
Quiche, 126 –27
Roasted Potato, Spinach, and Goat Cheese with an Egg on T op, 
249
Vegetarian Croque, 245
Squash
Kabocha Squash and Sausage Brown 
Betty, 162
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Roasted Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan and Eggs, 
252
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried T omato Strata, 
168
Steel-Cut Oats with Homemade Almond Milk, 
206
Stock
Chicken Stock, 26–27
Veggie Stock, 212 , 214
Strata, Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-
Dried T omato, 168
Strawberries
Corn Porridge with Strawberry Compote 
and Greek Yogurt, 210
Gluten-Free Strawberry Jam Mufﬁns, 
54–55
Jelly Doughnuts, 178
Mini Strawberry Galettes, 133
Strawberry Glaze, 179
Strawberry Jam, 55
Sugar Glaze, 179
Sweet Corn Mufﬁns, 48
Swiss chard
Warm Breakfast Panzanella a.k.a. 
Grown-Up Spider-Man Eggs, 265
Syrups
Chocolate Syrup, 273
Simple Syrup, 273
Vanilla Syrup, 274
t
Tart, Vanilla Apricot, 146
Tartines
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy 
Slaw Tartine, 237
Spicy Butternut Squash, Kale, Pancetta, and Egg Tartine, 
238Te a
Chai Latte, 278
T eacakes
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Chocolate Chocolate T eacake, 94
Lemon Kumquat Poppy T eacake, 97
Three-Cheese Rye Biscuits, 63
Tips, 20, 28–30
T oasting, 26
T omatoes
Braised Brisket and Fingerling Potato 
Hash, 262 –64
Cherry T omato–Goat Cheese Cobbler, 157
Corn, Cherry T omato, and Spinach Hash, 
260
Corn, Spinach, and Cherry T omato Quiche, 
126 –27
Cured Salmon Platter, 118
Fried Green T omato, Bacon, and Spicy Slaw Tartine, 
237
Lentils with Roasted Cherry T omatoes and Sunny-Side-Up Eggs, 
259
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Spicy T omato Jam, 211
T omato Leek Cornmeal Crostata, 142 –43
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried T omato Strata, 
168
T ools, 25
Traditional Croque Monsieur, 242
Turnips
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251
v
Vanilla, 23
Apricot–Vanilla Bean Pound Cake, 93
Vanilla Apple Butter, 132
Vanilla Apricot Tart, 146
Vanilla French T oast with Brown Sugar–
Cranberry Sauce, 198
Vanilla Glaze, 178
Vanilla Latte, 274
Vanilla Raspberry Mufﬁns, 41
Vanilla Syrup, 274
Vegan Gluten-Free Pancakes with Maple Blueberry Compote, 
190
Vegetables. See also individual vegetables
Roasted Root Vegetables with Eggs, 251
seasonal, 21
Veggie Stock, 212 , 214
Vegetarian Croque, 245w
Walnuts
Banana Chocolate Silver Dollars, 194
Carrot Apple T eacake, 98
Chocolate Banana Walnut Cake, 86
Gluten-Free Vegan Banana Chocolate 
Mufﬁns, 53
Hot Farro Porridge with Blueberries and T oasted Walnuts, 
208
Old-Fashioned Coffee Cake, 91
Persimmon Spice Cake, 92
Roasted Peaches with Nut Crumble, 154
toasting, 26
Walnut Jam Scones, 69
Zucchini Mufﬁns, 49
Warm Breakfast Panzanella a.k.a. Grown-Up Spider-Man Eggs, 
265
Warm Chocolate Rice Pudding, 215
Wheat, cracked
Muesli, 205
Wheat germ
Blueberry Bran Mufﬁns, 40
Honey Multigrain Bagels, 116–17
Muesli, 205
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
toasting, 26
Whipped Cream, 149
Whole-wheat recipes
Pear Whole-Wheat Crumb Cake, 88
Whole-Wheat Flaky Dough, 124
Whole-Wheat Raisin Scones, 72
Wild Rice, Mushrooms, Leeks, and Fried 
Eggs over, 257
Wine, 24
z
Zucchini
Ratatouille on T oast with Over-Easy Eggs, 
228 –29
Zucchini Mufﬁns, 49
Zucchini, Spring Onion, and Sun-Dried 
T omato Strata, 168When Zoe Nathan opened the doors to her 
Huckleberry Bakery & Café in 2009, the line 
formed instantly. Zoe was known for transform -
ing the best ingredients into beautiful and  
delicious offerings, served up in generous 
heaps. Since those early days, the line at 
Huckleberry has only grown, now spilling out 
the doors, filled with Santa Monica locals, Los 
Angeles food lovers, and flavor-seekers from 
around the globe—all waiting for a taste of 
Zoe’s burnished savory scones, a messy bite 
of her egg sandwich on freshly baked country 
bread, or a tasty tangle of brisket hash.
But now fans can choose whenever they have a 
Huckleberry craving: fall into line and visit with 
the other devotees, or make Zoe’s brilliant rec -
ipes at home. Huckleberry contains 115 recipes 
for Zoe’s now legendary brunch dishes, sweets, 
sides, and pastries.
Improve your weekday breakfast or turn break -
fast into a delicious dinner with Zoe’s recipes 
for frittatas, savory tarts, or porridge. Work 
your way through a perfect set of nourishing 
and yummy pancakes, including amazing 
Brown Rice Quinoa Pancakes and ethereal 
Ricotta Griddlecakes. And you couldn’t have 
a Huckleberry breakfast without a wild assort -
ment of eggs every which way: in a hole, on a 
homemade English muffin, topping a hill of 
perfectly roasted asparagus laced with a salty 
lick of crisped prosciutto. Whip up a batch of 
fluffy Chocolate Chunk Muffins, and delight in 
a buttery Mushroom and Romanesco Frittata 
with enough leftovers for tomorrow’s sandwich. 
Huckleberry  is much more than just a collection  
of recipes. Here are Zoe’s smart baking tips and 
the thinking that makes her baking and cooking 
rise above the rest, from using whole-grain flours  
and the ripest fruit to making gluten-free muffins  
and teacakes that lead with deliciousness, rather  
than diet.
With nearly 150 photographs by celebrated food  
photographer Matt Armendariz, Huckleberry  
brings Huckleberry—and all the good times it  
holds—into your own kitchen, introducing 
delicious ness, inspiration, and love into every 
morning of your life.ZOE NATHAN & JOSH LOEB  
are the wife-and-husband team who own and 
operate Huckleberry Bakery & Café. They fell in  
love while working together at their nearby res-
taurant Rustic Canyon Wine Bar and Seasonal  
Kitchen; they also own and operate Milo & Olive  
and Sweet Rose Creamery. They live with their 
two awesome kids in Santa Monica, CA.
LAUREL ALMERINDA  has worked side by  
side with Zoe for years at Huckleberry, and now 
runs day-to-day pastry operations. T ogether 
Laurel and Zoe have created countless items, 
learned from each other, and grown in ways 
they never could have imagined. Laurel lives in 
Venice, CA, with her husband, Ethan Pines.
MATT ARMENDARIZ  is a food and lifestyle 
photographer based in Los Angeles, CA.
Chronicle Books publishes distinctive books and gifts. 
From award-winning children’s titles, bestselling cook -
books, and eclectic pop culture to acclaimed works of art 
and design, stationery, and journals, we craft publishing 
that’s instantly recognizable for its spirit and creativity. 
Enjoy our publishing and become part of our community  
at www.chroniclebooks.com.Get 
freebies,  
discounts,  
and more!Want More  
Chronicle Ebooks?
CliCk Here!