10 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFive Benefits of Pressure Cooking
There are lots of reasons to love pressure cooking, so treat the list of  
bene  fits below as just the beginning. As you expand your pressure cook -
ing knowledge and experience, your list will only get longer.
 ›COOK FOOD FAST.  Pressure cooking cuts traditional cooking times by up 
to 70 percent, making it great for super -quick meals. It greatly decreases 
typically long cooking times for dishes like beans, thick meats, and 
stocks, making slow weekend dishes into weekday options.
 ›PRESERVE NUTRITION FOR HEALTHY MEALS.  Because pressure cooking 
requires less cooking liquid, it’s more nutritious than boiling, as fewer 
minerals leach out of the food and into the liquid. The shorter cooking 
time also helps preserve the natural vitamins inside the food, making 
pressure cooking an exceptionally healthy cooking method.
 ›MAKE GREAT DISHES WITHOUT THE FUSS.  Electric pressure cookers 
automatically regulate the pressure and use a timer to control the cook -
ing time. These automated functions make them simpler to use than 
their stove -top counterparts, and their hands -off functionality make 
them extra safe and all -around user -friendly. This is an appliance you’ll 
want to keep on your countertop.
 ›REDEFINE THE ONE-POT MEAL.  In addition to greatly reducing cooking 
time, pressure cookers can turn out great -tasting one -pot meals. With 
little more to do than toss your ingredients in a pot and turn it on, 
meals don’t get much easier than this. Make a hearty stew, healthy chili, 
or quick pasta dish in no time and with just one pot to clean.
 ›GO GREEN.  With a faster cooking time and an efficient use of energy, 
pressure cookers are eco -friendly. When compared to stove -top and 
other cooking methods, pressure cooking uses two to three times  
less energy. 
Step-by-Step Electric Pressure Cooking
The same thing that makes pressure cooking so great is what makes it 
intimidating: Y ou drop in your ingredients, turn on the cooker, and let it 
go⅛u2014⅓dno peeking allowed. The good news is we know enough about how 
food reacts under pressure to provide accurate cook times, removing all 
of the guesswork and allowing you to set it and forget it.11 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEAL THWhen it’s time to get cooking, take a look at your chosen recipe. Does 
it involve browning or sautéing before pressure cooking? What is the 
pressure level, and how long is the cook time? Typical electric pressure - 
cooking recipes will involve the following steps, but read your recipe 
thoroughly before proceeding.
1. T o enhance the flavor, use the Sauté function to sauté vegetables or 
brown meat before pressure cooking. Leave the top off when using 
this function.
2. Add the remaining ingredients and secure the lid with the steam 
release handle turned to the Sealing position.
3. Select the pressure level (High or Low) and cook time according to 
the recipe or manual. The cooker will automatically start.
4. Once pressure cooking is complete, turn off the cooker by selecting 
Cancel. This will disengage the warming function.
5. Use a natural release or quick release. A natural release, performed 
by selecting Cancel and letting the Instant Pot sit until the float valve 
sinks, slowly releases the pressure and locks in flavor. This can take  
PRESSURE COOKING AT HIGH ALTITUDE
High-altitude cooking can be tricky, 
but pressure cookers provide an ideal 
method for preparing foods at high 
elevations. The efficient building  
of pressure overcomes many of the 
usual difficulties, making the appliance 
popular in high-altitude regions. 
Although the pressure is highly 
regulated inside the Instant Pot, the 
atmospheric pressure outside the 
cooker does affect cooking time. That 
means that if you live at high altitude, you will need to adjust the cook time 
called for in these (and other) recipes. 
The general rule is to add 5 percent  
to your cook time for every 1,000 feet 
above 2,000 feet elevation. For 
example, if you live at 3,000 feet, add 
5 percent to your cook time. If you live 
at 5,000 feet and the recipe has a 
20-minute cook time, add 15 percent 
to your cooking time, for a new cook 
time of 23 minutes.12 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOK10 minutes or more and is good for tough meats, stews, and sauces.  
Or release the steam manually for a quick release. Using extreme cau -
tion and a thick kitchen towel, turn the handle and quickly get out of 
the way while the steam releases for up to two minutes. This method 
is useful for delicate items with specific cooking times like vegetables 
or seafood.
6. Carefully remove the lid. Some dishes benefit from a simmer to help 
thicken, reduce, or concentrate the liquid. The Sauté function is handy 
again here, leaving you with just one dirty pot.
Using the Instant Pot Pressure Cooker
The Instant Pot is an all -in-one for fast and easy cooking, and once you 
get to know your cooker, the possibilities are endless. Give the manual 
that comes with the appliance a thorough read before using your Instant 
Pot, and continue to consult it as needed. Y ou can find a downloadable 
manual at InstantPot.com/benefits/specifications -and-manuals.
The Instant Pot is composed of an exterior pot with a heating element 
inside and a control panel on the outside. The inner pot, which holds the 
food during cooking, sits snugly inside the exterior pot. The lid has  
a large handle and a steam release valve on top. The valve is used for a 
quick release, and must be in the Sealing position before pressure cooking 
can begin. Underneath the lid are a sealing ring, float valve, and exhaust 
valve. These are used to create a tight seal and regulate pressure within  
the Instant Pot.
The Instant Pot has a number of cooking functions. In this book, we 
will typically use the Manual function, with exceptions noted. With most 
functions, you can adjust the cook time or heat level using the Adjust, 
More (+), and Less (–) buttons. The Pressure key toggles between high 
and low pressure for all pressure -cooking functions except Rice. High 
pressure is the most common, and is used for most recipes; low pressure 
is for cooking delicate items like seafood. The Instant Pot will automati -
cally begin preheating 10 seconds after the last key is pressed.
  MANUAL   The Manual setting is best used for pressure cooking when  
you want to input your settings from scratch. The recipes in this book 
tend to use the Manual function, and you can adjust the pressure and 
time as needed.13 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEAL TH  SAUTÉ   The Sauté function is especially useful when preparing pressure 
cooker recipes since it allows you to perform multiple cooking methods 
in the same pot. We will use this function frequently to soften vegetables 
or brown meat before pressure cooking, as well as thicken sauces after 
pressure cooking. The low setting is best for slow simmering, normal is 
best for sautéing and browning, and high is best for charring or blacken -
ing. Safety tip: Leave the lid off when using this function.
  SLOW COOK   Slow cooking is a great option if you have a long, busy day 
ahead of you and want your dinner ready when you arrive home. Make 
sure the steam release handle is turned to the Venting position when 
using this function. 
  STEAM   Designed for use with the included metal steam rack or your own 
appropriately sized steamer basket, the Steam function heats at full power 
continuously, boiling the water below and steaming the food in the basket.
  BEAN/CHILI   A function specifically for cooking dried beans at high pres -
sure, the time can be adjusted for this function depending on how well 
cooked you like your beans.
  MEAT/STEW   This function can be used when cooking hearty meats at high 
pressure, and the time can be adjusted depending on which meats you 
use. Consult the Instant Pot manual or the Electric Pressure Cooking 
Time Charts in the back of this book when determining cook time. 
  MULTIGRAIN   The Instant Pot makes cooking grains like wild and brown 
rice at high pressure quick and easy. Review the Instant Pot manual and 
consult the Electric Pressure Cooking Time Charts at the end of this 
book carefully when cooking grains, since the amount of liquid, cook 
time, and release are key to success.
  PORRIDGE   When using the Porridge function, the normal setting is for 
rice porridge, while the high setting is for a mixture of grains and beans. 
Use a natural release with this function.
  POULTRY   This automated function can be used for cooking chicken, turkey, 
or duck at high pressure . Consult the Instant Pot manual or the Electric 
Pressure Cooking Time Charts in the back of this book when determining 
cook time.14 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOK  RICE   This fully automated function is for cooking regular rice at low 
pressure, and the cooking duration is automatically adjusted based on the 
amount of rice and liquid in the cooker. Y ou can cook as little as 1 cup of 
rice using this function.
  SOUP   Electric pressure cookers are excellent for making soups and 
broths, and this function keeps your soup from boiling too heavily.
  YOGURT   Homemade yogurt is made easy with this two -step Instant Pot 
function. See the Instant Pot manual for details.
The Instant Pot also has a Delayed Cooking function that further 
allows you to perfectly time your meals, as well as a Keep Warm feature. 
The warming feature is automatically activated once the cook timer runs 
out, and can be turned off by selecting Cancel. The pressure will release 
faster if you turn off the warming feature after cooking is complete. For all 
recipes in this book, select Cancel once pressure cooking is complete.SAFETY TIPS FOR THE INSTANT POT
Every time you pressure-cook with 
your Instant Pot, keep a few safety 
tips in mind. Before each use, double-
check that the bottom of your inner 
pot, as well as the heating plate that it 
sits on, are clean and dry. Check that 
the ﬂoat valve, exhaust valve, and anti-
block shield are also clean and free of 
any food, and make sure the sealing 
ring is secure. Finally, check that the 
steam release handle is in the Sealing 
position. When adding food, do not 
overﬁll the Instant Pot. Starchy foods or foods that are prone to foaming 
should not ﬁll the pot more than half 
full. Other dishes should not ﬁll the pot 
more than three-quarters full. After 
cooking is complete, remember that the 
cooker will be hot. Use extreme caution 
when releasing pressure, as steam can 
cause nasty burns if you’re not careful. 
Use a thick kitchen towel or oven mitt 
to turn the handle and then quickly get 
out of the way. Always unplug your 
Instant Pot when not in use.15 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEAL THConverting Your Favorite Recipes
A wide range of dishes can be prepared in the pressure cooker, and once 
you’ve worked your way through the following recipes, you’ll likely get 
the itch to convert a favorite slow cooker or stove -top dish to be pressure 
cooker–friendly. Most recipes can make the conversion easily as long as 
you keep a few things in mind.
 ›REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF LIQUID.  Since pressure cookers don’t allow 
evaporation like stove -top cooking, you don’t need as much liquid. 
Adjust accordingly, but don’t go under the minimum 1 cup of liquid.
 ›DECREASE THE COOK TIME.  A dish cooked in a pressure cooker will 
typically take one -third to one -half of the cooking time of a traditional 
stove -top recipe. Compare your recipe and its ingredients to the cook 
time chart for best results.
 ›ADD DAIRY AT THE END.  If the recipe includes dairy, the general rule is 
to add it at the end, after pressure cooking is over. Dairy tends to foam 
and scorch when heated in a pressure cooker. There are exceptions for 
certain recipes.
 ›THICKEN AT THE END.  T o thicken sauces or make a roux, use the Sauté 
function after pressure cooking. Thickeners like cornstarch and flour 
should be added after pressure cooking is over.
 ›DON’T OVERFILL.  Pay attention to how big the recipe is and adjust so 
that you don’t overfill your pot. Bigger recipes don’t mean longer cook 
times, since the pressure cooker cooks everything at the same rate.
T ry experimenting with a pressure -cooking converter like the one at 
HipPressureCooking.com/pressure -cooker -recipe -converter.16 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKUSING YOUR INSTANT POT PRESSURE COOKER
 ›DO double-check your pressure release handle.  If it’s not in the Sealing 
position before you start pressure cooking, your Instant Pot won’t have much 
success building enough pressure to properly cook the food.
 ›DO use the Sauté function and deglaze for extra ﬂavor.  Browning aromatics 
and hearty meats before pressure cooking adds another layer of ﬂavor. For 
sauces and stews with depth, deglaze the pan with wine, stock, or water.
 ›DO experiment.  Even though there are some don’ts when using a pressure 
cooker, once you learn the rules and become familiar with your machine, feel 
free to experiment!
 ›DO consult your manual on a regular basis.  Even longtime electric pressure-  
cooker users need to go back to their manual from time to time for assembly 
and troubleshooting info, recommended cook times, and more. 
 ›DO make extra.  Most recipes for two to four people only ﬁll the bottom quarter 
of the pot, so why not make extra? Most pressure-cooker recipes make great 
leftovers (like soups, grains, and beans) and even freeze well. 
 ›DON’T use a quick release when cooking large amounts of some foods.  If you 
are making a big batch of soup or broth, use a natural release. Proceed with 
caution when cooking a large batch of gravy, noodles, whole grains, or porridge. 
These tend to foam, and if the Instant Pot is too full and you use a quick release, 
the handle can spray hot liquid. 
 ›DON’T add too much liquid.  Pressure cookers trap steam, preventing the evap -
oration that occurs with stove-top cooking. This means you can cook with less 
liquid and achieve the same results while keeping the ﬂavor concentrated. But 
don’t go below the minimum amount, which is about 1 cup for the Instant Pot 
(depending on what you’re cooking). 17 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEAL THCleaning and Caring for  
Your Electric Pressure Cooker
Keep your Instant Pot in good working order for years to come with a 
little TLC. After every use, unplug the Instant Pot and clean the inner pot 
with soapy water or wash it in the dishwasher. Clean the lid with a wet 
cloth and wipe dry. Remove the sealing ring and clean with soapy water 
when needed, and dry before replacing. The steam release valve can be 
removed for cleaning as well. Wipe the inside rim of the outer pot with a 
dry cloth.
When making strong -smelling dishes like curries and chilies, your 
sealing ring will take on these strong scents. Cleaning with warm, soapy 
water will help, and this typically won’t affect the flavor of your food. If it 
bothers you, keep an extra ring around just for cooking aromatic foods.
If your Instant Pot produces unusual noises or burning smells, or if the 
power cord is damaged, immediately stop using it and unplug it. Contact 
customer support. ›DON’T use the cold water method.  Since we’re cooking with electricity here, 
running the appliance under cold water for a quick release, as you would a 
stove-top pressure cooker, is a really bad idea.
 ›DON’T increase the cooking time when doubling a recipe.  Because the pres -
sure cooks all of the food in the pot at the same rate, more food does not equal 
more cook time. 
 ›DON’T overﬁll.  Even though you have a nice big pot, resist the temptation to 
ﬁll it up. Never ﬁll your Instant Pot over three-quarters full, and starchy and 
foamy dishes should only reach the halfway mark.18 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKRegarding the Recipes
The recipes in this book are written to be easy to use and completely 
pain -free. Each states the prep time and pressure -cooking time along 
with the total time, which includes prep, cook, preheat, and de-pressurize 
time⅛u2014⅓dgiving you a true picture of how long the recipe will take from 
start to finish. Servings, settings used, and helpful tips like using a smart 
program, ingredient info, and substitutions are also included. Note that 
the heat settings labeled More and Less on the Instant Pot are referred to 
as High and Low in this book. If a heat setting is not specified, then leave 
as Normal⅛u2014⅓dthe automatic setting. 
The recipes are also clearly marked with labels to make them easy to 
pick and choose:
 ›VIRTUALLY INSTANT  recipes are ready in 20 minutes or less.
 ›WEEKDAY WIN  recipes indicate complete meals that are done in  
45 minutes or less.
 ›WORTH THE WAIT  recipes take 1 hour or longer from start to finish, 
but their delicious results make up for the extra effort required.
 ›FAMILY-FRIENDLY  recipes use kid -friendly ingredients and serve  
four or more. 
Vegetarian, gluten -free, and Paleo -friendly recipes are also labeled.19 FAST  FOOD  FOR  GOOD  HEAL THHOLIDAY PRESSURE COOKING
Free up your oven for food-centric holidays with the help of the Instant Pot!
St. Patrick’s Day
Corned Beef: page 114
Horseradish Mashed  
Potatoes: page 48
Braised Cabbage: page 42
Memorial Day, Fourth of July,  
and Labor Day
Baby Back Ribs: page 118
Pulled Pork: page 119
Low-Country Boil: page 90
Charred Corn on the Cob: page 39Jewish Holidays
One-Hour Matzo Ball Soup: page 75
Barbecue Beef Brisket: page 111
White Wine–Poached Pears with 
Vanilla: page 136
Thanksgiving and Christmas
Stuffed Turkey Breast: page 104
Rustic Herb Stuffing: page 65
Cranberry Sauce: page 151
Onion Gravy: page 149
Sweet Potatoes with Brown Sugar 
Topping: page 49
Little Pumpkin Puddings: page 130 BREAKFASTCHAPTER TWO
BREAKFAST
Apple and Cinnamon 
Oatmeal  22
Savory Breakfast 
Porridge  23
Cinnamon -Raisin  
French T oast Bake  24
Soft-Boiled Eggs and 
Soldiers  26Bacon and Egg  
Strata  27
Sausage and Cheese 
Frittata  29
Potato and Pepper 
Frittata  30
Eggs in Purgatory  
with Eggplant  3122 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYApple and Cinnamon Oatmeal
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Heart-healthy steel-cut oatmeal cooks up perfectly in no  
time in the pressure cooker, and cinnamon and apple make this an autumn morning 
must. If you’ve never tried steel-cut oats, they’re instant oats’ chewier, healthier cousin. 
If you’re gluten-intolerant, be sure to buy oats that are labeled as gluten-free. T op with 
chopped walnuts for a bit of protein.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the butter and melt. Add the oats and stir, 
cooking for 2 minutes.
3. Add the water, apple, brown sugar, cinnamon, and salt and 
stir. Secure the lid. 
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure. The 
oatmeal will continue to thicken as it cools.
6. Serve the oatmeal topped with chopped fresh apple and 
more brown sugar. 
VARIATION TIP:  T o make this recipe even more apple-y, replace up to  
1 cup of the water with apple cider and omit the sugar.
Per Serving  Calories: 243; Total Carbohydrates: 30g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 209mgSERVES 4 
3 tablespoons butter
1 cup steel-cut oats
2½ cups water
1 large apple, cored, peeled, 
and chopped, plus more  
for garnish
1 tablespoon brown sugar,  
plus extra for serving
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon kosher salt23 BREAKFAST
WORTH THE WAITSavory Breakfast Porridge
Not all breakfast porridge has to be sweet. Quite to the contrary, rice porridge, or 
congee, is a popular savory breakfast in China, and for good reason. It’s creamy and 
nourishing without the need for dairy, and topped with a fried egg and soy sauce, it’s 
also a delicious way to start the day.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the rice, broth, water, sugar, and salt to the Instant Pot 
and stir. Secure the lid.
2. Select Porridge and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, heat the oil over medium heat in a large skillet 
or frying pan (preferably nonstick). Once hot, crack the 
eggs into the pan, next to each other but without touching. 
Cook, covered for half of the time, for 3 to 5 minutes, or 
until the whites are crispy and the yolks are still runny. 
Season with salt and pepper.
4. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a natural release. 
This will take about 15 minutes.
5. If you want a thicker porridge, select Sauté and simmer for 
up to 10 minutes.
6. Serve topped with scallions, soy sauce, chili sauce (if using), 
and an egg. Season with additional salt and pepper as desired.
VARIATION TIP:  Porridge can be made with brown rice. Adjust the 
pressure cooking time to 45 minutes.
Per Serving  Calories: 214; Total Carbohydrates: 24g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 10g; Sodium: 887mgSERVES 4 
½ cup long-grain white rice, 
rinsed and drained
2 cups chicken broth
2 cups water
1 tablespoon sugar
½ teaspoon kosher salt,  
plus more for seasoning
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
4 eggs
Freshly ground black pepper
4 scallions, chopped
2 teaspoons soy sauce,  
plus more if needed
Chili sauce (optional)24 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYCinnamon-Raisin French Toast Bake
VEGETARIAN  If you prefer your French toast hands-off, throw together this casserole  
for breakfast or brunch. It’s a handy way to use up old bread, and has all the flavor and 
texture of French toast plus a little cinnamon spice. If you want a crisp top, sprinkle 
with sugar and slide under the broiler for a few minutes at the end.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steam rack on top.
2. Butter a 6 - to 7 -inch soufflé or baking pan. (If your dish 
doesn’t have handles, make a sling for it before putting it 
into the pot. See the Cooking Tip for instructions.)
3. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, milk, maple syrup, 
and vanilla. Add the bread and let it sit for 5 minutes, 
stirring once or twice.
4. Pour the mixture into the pan and push down to submerge 
the bread, if needed. Place the dish on the steam rack, 
uncovered, and secure the lid. 
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.SERVES 4 
1½ cups water
1 teaspoon butter
3 large eggs, beaten
1 cup whole or 2 percent milk
2 tablespoons maple syrup, 
plus more for serving
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups stale or lightly toasted 
cinnamon-raisin bread,  
cut into ¾-inch cubes
1 teaspoon sugar (optional)25 BREAKFAST6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Be sure to remove the  
lid carefully and quickly so that condensation doesn’t drip on the  
French toast.
7. Carefully remove the pan using a sling or handles. If a crispy top is desired, 
sprinkle with sugar and broil for 3 to 5 minutes. 
COOKING TIP:  A 6- or 7-inch baking pan or soufflé dish will come in handy when 
making a variety of dishes in your Instant Pot. If your dish or steam rack doesn’t have 
handles, create a sling with a piece of aluminum foil, folded in half twice, that’s long 
enough to go under the dish and stick up 6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
VARIATION TIP:  This recipe tastes great with a topping of tangy yogurt. 
Per Serving  Calories: 183; Total Carbohydrates: 21g; Saturated Fat: 3g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 0g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 172mg26 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYSoft-Boiled Eggs and Soldiers
VEGETARIAN  Kids and adults alike will love spending their morning dipping toast 
“soldiers” into runny egg yolks. The Instant Pot produces perfect soft-boiled eggs every 
time, and while they steam, you can toast and cut your bread. Breakfast is ready in  
15 minutes flat.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 15 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot  
and placing the steam rack on top.
2. Place the eggs on the steam rack and secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 6 minutes.
4. While the eggs cook, butter and toast the bread. Cut into 
1-inch strips.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the eggs and place in egg cups.
6. Use a spoon to tap around the top of the egg in a circle. 
Remove the top circle of shell and the section of egg along 
with it, exposing the runny yolk.
7. Serve with the toast for dunking.
DID YOU KNOW? :Eggs and soldiers is a popular British breakfast, and 
the toast is often spread with Marmite or, in Australia, Vegemite.
Per Serving  Calories: 162; Total Carbohydrates: 9g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 7g; Sodium: 225mgSERVES 4 
1 cup water
4 eggs
1 to 2 tablespoons butter
4 to 8 bread slices27 BREAKFAST
FAMILY-FRIENDLYBacon and Egg Strata
A breakfast all-in-one, this strata combines bread, eggs, cheese, and bacon into one 
simple but tasty dish. It’s an ingenious way to use up stale bread, and the texture is 
similar to bread pudding. T op it with cheese and broil it at the end for a crispy top.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. In a sauté or frying pan over medium -high heat, crisp the 
bacon on both sides and place on a paper towel to drain. 
When cool enough, cut the bacon into small pieces.
2. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steam rack on top.
3. Butter a 6 - to 7 -inch soufflé or baking dish. (If your dish 
doesn’t have handles, make a sling for it before putting it 
into the pot. See the Cooking Tip for instructions.)
4. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs and milk and 
season with salt and pepper. Add the bread and let it sit for 
5 minutes, stirring once or twice.
5. Add ¼ cup of cheese and the bacon to the bowl and mix. 
Pour into the pan and push down to submerge, if needed. 
Place the dish on the steam rack, uncovered, and secure 
the lid. 
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Be sure to 
remove the lid carefully and quickly so that condensation 
doesn’t drip on the strata.  ▶SERVES 4 TO 5 
4 bacon slices
1½ cups water
1 tablespoon butter
3 large eggs, beaten
1 cup whole or 2 percent milk
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 cups stale whole-wheat 
bread, cut into ¾-inch cubes
¼ cup shredded sharp Cheddar 
cheese, plus 2 tablespoons 
for topping28 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKBacon and Egg Strata (continued)
8. Carefully remove the pan using oven mitts or tongs. 
9. Preheat the oven to broil.
10. T op with the remaining 2 tablespoons of cheese and place under the 
broiler for 3 to 5 minutes until melted and browned.
COOKING TIP:  A 6- or 7-inch baking pan or soufflé dish will come in handy when 
making a variety of dishes in your Instant Pot. If your dish or steam rack doesn’t have 
handles, create a sling with a piece of foil, folded in half twice, that’s long enough to 
go under the dish and stick up 6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
VARIATION TIP:  Try adding a handful of ﬁnely chopped onion and bell pepper.
Per Serving  Calories: 321; Total Carbohydrates: 12g; Saturated Fat: 10g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 1g; Protein: 20g; Sodium: 766mg29 BREAKFAST
WEEKDAY WINSausage and Cheese Frittata
GLUTEN-FREE  Sausage, egg, and cheese are all cooked together in this fluffy frittata for a 
savory breakfast. You can always swap out the sausage for a few strips of bacon, or toss 
in diced onion and pepper. If you have two 6- to 7-inch baking dishes, double the recipe 
and stack the dishes on top of each other to serve more people.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 17 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the water to the empty Instant Pot and place the 
steam rack on top.
2. Butter a 6 - to 7 -inch soufflé or baking dish. (If your dish 
doesn’t have handles, make a sling for it before putting it 
into the pot. See the Cooking Tip for instructions.)
3. In a medium bowl, beat together the eggs and sour cream. 
Add the sausage and cheese and mix. Season with salt  
and pepper.
4. Pour the mixture into the buttered pan. Cover with foil 
and place on the steam rack. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 17 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Very 
carefully remove the pan. 
7. If desired, broil for a few minutes for a browned top.
COOKING TIP:  A 6- or 7-inch baking pan or soufflé dish will come in 
handy when making a variety of dishes in your Instant Pot. If your 
dish doesn’t have handles, create a sling with a piece of foil, folded 
in half twice, that’s long enough to go under the dish and stick up  
6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
VARIATION TIP:  Swap out the sausage for bacon, or go meatless with 
vegan sausage. T oss in some ﬁnely chopped onion and pepper for a 
western omelet-style frittata.
Per Serving  Calories: 282; Total Carbohydrates: 1g; Saturated Fat: 12g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 16g; Sodium: 385mgSERVES 2 TO 4
1½ cups water
1 tablespoon butter
4 eggs, beaten
2 tablespoons sour cream
½ cup crumbled, cooked 
sausage
¼ cup grated Cheddar cheese
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper30 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYPotato and Pepper Frittata
VEGETARIAN , GLUTEN-FREE  Potatoes, peppers, and onions fill out this satisfying frittata, 
and a sprinkling of cheese makes it family friendly. You can double the recipe by using 
two baking dishes stacked on top of each other. 
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 17 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the oil. 
Once hot, add the potatoes in one layer. Cook for 4 minutes, 
flip, and cook on the other side for 2 minutes. Remove.
2. Add the onion and cook for 2 minutes. Add the bell 
pepper and cook for 2 minutes more, until the onion is 
translucent. Remove from the pot. Select Cancel.
3. Add the water to the empty pot and place a steam rack on 
top. Butter a 6 - or 7 -inch round soufflé or baking dish.
4. In a medium bowl, beat together the eggs and sour cream. 
Season with salt and pepper.
5. Layer half of the potatoes, onion, and bell pepper in the 
baking dish and season with salt and pepper. Pour half of 
the egg mixture over the vegetables and sprinkle with half 
of the cheese. Repeat, ending with cheese.
6. Cover with foil and place on the steam rack. Secure the lid.
7. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 17 minutes.
8. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the baking dish. If desired, broil in the oven for a 
few minutes for a browned top.
COOKING TIP:  If your dish doesn’t have handles, create a sling with a 
piece of foil, folded twice, that’s long enough to go under the dish 
and stick up 6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
Per Serving  Calories: 470; Total Carbohydrates: 38g; Saturated Fat: 10g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 19g; Sodium: 315mgSERVES 2 TO 4 
1½ tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 large or 2 medium red or 
yellow potatoes, cut into 
¼-inch slices
½ onion, cut into ⅛-inch slices
½ red bell pepper, seeded and 
cut into ¼-inch rings
1½ cups water
Butter, for greasing 
4 eggs, beaten
2 tablespoons sour cream
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup grated Monterey Jack 
or Cheddar cheese31 BREAKFAST
FAMILY-FRIENDLYEggs in Purgatory with Eggplant
VEGETARIAN  The name of this dish comes from the spicy red tomato sauce that cooks 
the eggs. The combination of the bright sauce, soft eggplant, and rich eggs is fitting for 
brunch, lunch, or dinner. Serve with enough crusty bread for dunking.
PREP: 30 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 50 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. In a large bowl, toss the eggplant with the salt and spread 
out onto a paper towel–lined baking sheet. Let it sit for  
15 to 30 minutes. T ake more paper towels and press out 
any moisture, wiping away some of the salt as you go.
2. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
3. Once hot, add the oil. Add the eggplant and cook, stirring 
and scraping the bottom of the pot, for 4 minutes, until  
the eggplant is starting to cook. Add the garlic and cook for 
1 minute more.
4. Add the tomatoes, harissa or paprika, and red pepper 
flakes, and season with black pepper. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes. 
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Select  
Sauté and stir the sauce. Crack the eggs, one at a time, into 
a small bowl and lower each one into the pot, laying it on 
top of the sauce.
7. Cook, loosely covered, until the eggs are set but the yolks 
are still runny, 4 to 6 minutes.
8. T op with parsley and serve with bread and hot sauce  
(if using).
INGREDIENT TIP:  Harissa is a North African hot chili pepper paste, and 
can be found in the international section of the grocery store or at 
Middle Eastern markets.
Per Serving  Calories: 680; Total Carbohydrates: 87g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 23g; Protein: 31g; Sodium: 1688mgSERVES 2 TO 4
1 small eggplant, mostly 
peeled, cut into  
½-inch pieces
1 tablespoon kosher salt,  
plus more for seasoning
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 large garlic cloves, minced
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes, with most of  
the liquid drained out
1 tablespoon harissa or  
1 teaspoon smoked paprika
¼ teaspoon red pepper ﬂakes
Freshly ground black pepper
4 to 6 eggs
1 tablespoon chopped  
fresh parsley
4 to 6 thick slices good-quality 
rustic bread, for serving
Hot sauce, for serving 
(optional)VEGETABLESCHAPTER THREE
VEGETABLES
Steamed Artichokes  
with Dipping Sauce  34
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip  35
Steamed Edamame  
with Garlic  36
Easy Egg Salad  37
Quick Zucchini 
Ratatouille  38
Charred Corn  
on the Cob  39
Corn Pudding  40
Sesame Bok Choy  41
Braised Cabbage  42Sweet and Spicy 
Carrots  43
Beets with Goat 
Cheese  44
Spaghetti Squash  
with Parmesan and  
Pine Nuts  45
Root Vegetable 
Medley  46
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes  47
Horseradish Mashed 
Potatoes  48
Sweet Potatoes with 
Brown Sugar T opping  4934 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINSteamed Artichokes with Dipping Sauce
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Artichokes are a vegetable that I wouldn’t touch without the 
help of my pressure cooker. The tough, flowery vegetables are made tender and succulent 
in no time, and a zesty dipping sauce makes them a fun appetizer. 
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 11–14 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Remove the damaged outer leaves of the artichokes. T rim 
the bottoms to be flat so that they sit up straight. T rim the 
tough ends of the leaves and rub with 1 lemon half. 
2. Pour the water into the Instant Pot and insert a steamer 
basket. Place the artichokes in the basket sitting up (bloom 
facing up).
3. Secure the lid and select Manual. Cook at high pressure for 
11 to 14 minutes depending on the size of your artichokes 
(the bigger the artichoke, the longer the cook time).
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. T est the 
artichokes for doneness. If they aren’t tender enough, 
continue to cook for a few minutes more.
5. In a medium bowl, mix together the mayonnaise, mustard, 
paprika, and a generous squeeze of lemon juice. Serve the 
artichokes warm with the dipping sauce on the side.
COOKING TIP:  A steamer basket is a worthy investment when cooking 
with a pressure cooker. Look for one with sturdy legs and a handle 
for retrieving from the pot. Double-check that it will ﬁt in your 
Instant Pot, too.
Per Serving  Calories: 173; Total Carbohydrates: 25g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 338mgSERVES 2 TO 4
2 large artichokes
1 lemon, halved
1 cup water
3 tablespoons mayonnaise
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
Pinch smoked paprika35 VEGETABLES
VIRTUALLY INSTANTEggplant and Roasted Red Pepper Dip
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Eggplant and roasted red peppers are 
magically transformed into a creamy dip that’s healthy, too. It’s similar to baba ganoush, 
but not as smoky. What it lacks in smokiness it makes up for in texture and flavor.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté.
2. Once hot, add 3 tablespoons of oil. Add half of the 
eggplant and let brown on one side for 4 to 5 minutes. 
Remove and add another 1 tablespoon of oil to the pot, 
followed by the garlic and the remaining eggplant. Cook 
for 1 minute. Return the first batch of eggplant to the pot, 
and add the water and salt. Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Add the 
roasted red peppers and stir. Let it sit for 5 minutes.
5. Carefully drain out most of the cooking liquid. Add the 
remaining 1 tablespoon of oil, lemon juice, tahini, and 
cumin and season with pepper.
6. Use an immersion blender to blend until smooth. 
Alternatively, purée in a blender in batches. T aste for 
seasoning. Serve with bread or pita for dipping.
INGREDIENT TIP:  You can make your own roasted red peppers. Place 
whole red bell peppers in a preheated 450°F oven for 40 minutes. 
Cover with foil and let them sit for 30 minutes. Peel, stem, and seed 
the peppers before chopping them.
Per Serving  Calories: 165; Total Carbohydrates: 12g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 3g; Sodium: 451mgSERVES 6 TO 8
5 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
2 pounds eggplant, at least 
half peeled but leaving 
some skin, and cut into 
1-inch chunks
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 cup water
1 teaspoon kosher salt
¾ cup roasted red peppers, 
chopped
3 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon tahini
1 teaspoon ground cumin
Freshly ground black pepper36 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTSteamed Edamame with Garlic
VEGETARIAN  Edamame, also known as fresh soybeans, are a tasty snack that happens 
to be high in fiber and nutrients. Serve them in their pods sprinkled with sea salt or 
covered in garlic for a fun, guilt-free appetizer. 
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 15 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the water to the Instant Pot and place a steamer 
basket on top. Add the edamame and secure the lid.
2. Select Steam and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a small sauté pan over medium heat on the 
stove, add the oil. Once hot, add the garlic and sauté for 
1 to 2 minutes, until cooked but not brown. Add the soy 
sauce and turn off the heat.
4. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
Carefully remove the steamer basket. In a medium bowl, 
toss the edamame with the garlic mixture. Sprinkle  
with salt.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Edamame can commonly be found in the frozen 
vegetables section of the supermarket. Buy the uncooked pods.
Per Serving  Calories: 105; Total Carbohydrates: 8g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans 
Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 292mgSERVES 4 TO 6 
1 cup water
2 cups fresh or frozen 
edamame, in their pods
1 teaspoon sesame oil or 
extra-virgin olive oil
3 large garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon soy sauce
Sea salt37 VEGETABLES
VIRTUALLY INSTANTEasy Egg Salad
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  For the best, easy-to-peel cooked eggs, steaming is the way 
to go. With the help of a steam rack and the low pressure function on the Instant Pot, 
you’ll have perfect boiled eggs every time. And what better to do with boiled eggs than 
make egg salad? Serve on top of a salad, as a sandwich, or with crackers.
PREP: 7 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steam rack on top.
2. Place the eggs on the steam rack and secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 7 minutes.
4. While the eggs cook, add the celery, mayonnaise, parsley, 
mustard, lemon juice, and a sprinkle of salt and pepper to a 
medium bowl. Stir to combine.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Let the  
eggs cool for 30 seconds and then rinse under cold water 
until cool.
6. Peel the eggs and add to the bowl. Mash with a fork for the 
desired consistency and mix with the mayonnaise mixture.
7. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up  
to 3 days. 
VARIATION TIP:  I like my yolks solid but creamy for egg salad. If you 
like your yolks well done, add 1 minute to the cooking time.
Per Serving  Calories: 208; Total Carbohydrates: 6g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 12g; Sodium: 356mgSERVES 3 TO 4
1 cup water
6 eggs
⅓ cup ﬁnely diced celery
¼ cup high-quality or 
homemade mayonnaise
2 teaspoons minced  
fresh parsley
1 teaspoon Dijon or whole-
grain mustard
1 teaspoon freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper38 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTQuick Zucchini Ratatouille
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Ratatouille is a classic French dish of  
fresh summertime vegetables (as seen in the beloved animated film of the same name). 
This recipe omits the usual eggplant, replacing it with extra zucchini, and is ready in  
20 minutes flat. Serve with pasta, rice, or crusty bread.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté on high heat. 
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion, bell pepper, 
and garlic. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes or 
until the vegetables start to brown.
3. Add the zucchini and stir, cooking for about 3 minutes 
until the zucchini starts to brown. Add the wine and use a 
wooden spoon to scrape any brown bits from the bottom  
of the pot.
4. Add the tomatoes, bay leaf, and thyme and season with salt 
and pepper. 
5. Secure the lid, select Manual, and cook at high pressure  
for 3 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Select  
Sauté on high heat and cook for 2 to 3 minutes more to 
reduce the liquid. 
7. Remove the bay leaf. Let the ratatouille cool for a few 
minutes before plating and topping with fresh basil and a 
drizzle of olive oil.
VARIATION TIP:  If you’re not eating vegan, this dish tastes great  
with freshly grated Parmesan on top. Replace the wine with broth,  
if desired.
Per Serving  Calories: 111; Total Carbohydrates: 15g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans 
Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 65mgSERVES 4
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive 
oil, plus extra for serving
1 medium yellow onion,  
ﬁnely chopped
1 large red bell pepper,  
ﬁnely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
4 medium zucchini, chopped 
into bite-size pieces
¼ cup dry white wine
2 large tomatoes, seeded and 
diced, or 2 handfuls large 
cherry tomatoes, halved
1 bay leaf
3 fresh thyme sprigs
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons torn fresh basil39 VEGETABLES
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCharred Corn on the Cob
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  If you don’t have a grill or don’t want to fire it up just for 
corn on the cob, this is a worthy alternative. It’s a healthier, pared-down take on elote, 
or Mexican street corn. 
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 2 MINUTES • TOTAL: 25 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the water and corn to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 2 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Once all 
of the steam has escaped, open the lid and, using tongs, 
transfer the corn to a paper towel–lined platter or a  
cooling rack.
4. Carefully pour the water out and dry the pot completely. 
5. Select Sauté on high heat. Once hot, add the oil. Add the 
corn and quickly toss with the oil.
6. Cook in one layer without moving for 4 minutes or until 
charred. Rotate the corn and repeat twice until a few sides 
are charred.
7. Using tongs, remove the corn from the pot and place on a 
platter. Sprinkle with half of the Parmesan and season with 
salt, pepper, and a sprinkle of paprika. Turn the corn and 
repeat to season the other side, finishing with a sprinkle  
of parsley.
INSTANT POT TIP:  This recipe also works with the Steam function. 
Instead of the ﬁrst two steps, add 1 cup water to the pot and put the 
steam rack in. Put the corn on the steam rack and secure the lid. 
Select Steam and cook for 3 minutes before using a quick release. 
Follow the rest of the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 87; Total Carbohydrates: 15g; Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans 
Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 105mgSERVES 4
4 cups water
4 ears corn, shucked  
and halved
½ teaspoon canola oil
1 tablespoon ﬁnely grated 
Parmesan cheese
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
⅛ teaspoon paprika
1 tablespoon ﬁnely chopped 
fresh parsley40 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCorn Pudding
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Like a cross between cornbread, soufflé, and pudding, this 
side dish will have everyone asking for more. When cutting the corn off the cob, be sure 
to scrape the juicy bits from the cob with the back of your knife. For an extra indulgence, 
top with grated cheese after it’s cooked and broil for a few minutes.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the butter. Once the butter has melted, add 
the shallots and select Cancel. Sauté until the sizzling stops.
3. In a medium bowl, combine the corn, milk, sour cream, 
cornmeal, sugar, eggs, salt, and pepper. Add the butter and 
shallots and stir until well combined.
4. Add the water to the Instant Pot and place the steam rack 
on top. Butter a 6 - or 7 -inch round baking dish, pour the 
mixture into it, and cover with foil. Carefully lower the pan 
onto the rack and secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 30 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Very 
carefully remove the pan. Let it cool a few minutes  
before serving.
COOKING TIP:  If you have two baking dishes that stack nicely on top 
of each other, you can double the recipe. This does not affect the 
cooking time.
Per Serving  Calories: 207; Total Carbohydrates: 19g; Saturated Fat: 7g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 391mgSERVES 4
2 tablespoons butter
2 shallots, ﬁnely chopped
1 cup fresh corn, cut off the cob
¾ cup whole milk
¼ cup sour cream
3 tablespoons cornmeal
1 tablespoon sugar
2 eggs, beaten
½ teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1½ cups water41 VEGETABLES
VIRTUALLY INSTANTSesame Bok Choy
VEGETARIAN  Bok choy is a Chinese cabbage that’s full of valuable nutrients and delicate 
in taste. It’s easy to cook in the Instant Pot, which seals in nutrition, and can also be 
used in stir-fries, soups, and more. Here, bok choy is steamed and tossed with sesame oil 
and soy sauce for a simple side dish.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 4 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the water to the Instant Pot and place the steamer 
basket or rack on top. Stack the bok choy on top, with the 
largest/thickest leaves on the bottom. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 4 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release.
4. Carefully transfer the bok choy to a large bowl and toss 
with the soy sauce, sesame oil, and sesame seeds. Season 
with salt and pepper as desired.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Bok choy is not to be confused with baby bok choy, 
which is too small to cook in the pressure cooker without turning 
to mush. It’s the size of a large head of romaine lettuce. If you can’t 
ﬁnd it at your market, use Napa cabbage instead.
Per Serving  Calories: 54; Total Carbohydrates: 5g; Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans 
Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 3g; Sodium: 249mgSERVES 4
1 cup water
1 medium head bok choy  
(see Ingredient Tip),  
leaves separated 
1 teaspoon soy sauce
½ teaspoon sesame oil
2 teaspoons sesame seeds
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper42 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTBraised Cabbage
GLUTEN-FREE  Cabbage is an easy side dish that’s often overlooked for flashier vegetables, 
but can add real flavor and nutrition to your meal. In this recipe, fresh cabbage cooks 
with salty bacon for just 3 minutes. Serve as an accompaniment to sausages, corned 
beef, or pot roast.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 15 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the bacon in one layer. Cook until crisp, 
flipping halfway through, about 5 minutes. Carefully 
remove the bacon and cut into pieces.
3. Add the butter. Once the butter is melted, add the cabbage, 
broth, and bacon. Season with salt and pepper and stir. 
Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  If you’re making Corned Beef (page 114) or German 
Sausages with Peppers and Onions (page 125), you can use the 
cooking liquid from the meat for extra-ﬂavorful cabbage. Simply add 
the cabbage to the liquid and season with salt and pepper. Proceed 
with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 70; Total Carbohydrates: 7g; Saturated Fat: 2g;  
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 263mgSERVES 6 TO 8 
3 bacon slices
1 tablespoon butter
1 small head green cabbage, 
cored, quartered, and cut 
into ½-inch strips
1 cup vegetable or  
chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepper43 VEGETABLES
VIRTUALLY INSTANTSweet and Spicy Carrots
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Carrots cook in a flash using the Steam function, and a 
quick Sauté with honey and a touch of spice makes them way better than plain steamed 
carrots. Quick-cooking the carrots also ensures that they retain all their nutrients.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 2 MINUTES • TOTAL: 15 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot  
and placing a steamer basket on top. Place the carrots in 
the steamer basket and secure the lid.
2. Select Steam and cook at high pressure for 2 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the steamer basket, using oven mitts or tongs. 
Carefully pour the water out of the pot and completely  
dry the pot before replacing it.
4. Add the butter and select Sauté.
5. Once the butter has melted, add the carrots back to the 
pot. Stir until well coated. Add the cumin and cayenne, 
and season with salt and pepper. Stir.
6. Add the honey and select Cancel. Stir well until fully 
coated, and serve.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  Make this recipe vegan by using 1½ teaspoons 
agave instead of honey, and a butter substitute.
Per Serving  Calories: 74; Total Carbohydrates: 12g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Trans 
Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 122mgSERVES 4 
1 cup water
5 to 6 large carrots, peeled 
and cut into 1-inch chunks 
(about 3 cups)
1 tablespoon butter
¼ teaspoon ground cumin
¼ teaspoon cayenne 
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 teaspoons honey44 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINBeets with Goat Cheese
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Beets are super nutritious, look beautiful on a dinner table, 
and are extra easy when cooked in the pressure cooker. Serve them simply with tangy 
and creamy goat cheese, fresh lemon, and olive oil. Turn this into a salad by adding 
baby spinach and a sprinkle of toasted walnuts.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steamer basket on top.
2. Clean and trim the beets in the sink. Add them to the 
steamer basket and secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 20 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Pierce 
a beet with a knife to check for doneness. If not tender 
enough, return to the pot and cook for 5 minutes more. 
5. If done, carefully remove the steamer basket and run the 
beets under cold water in the sink. Slide the skins off and 
slice the beets on a cutting board.
6. Arrange the sliced beets on a plate and top with the goat 
cheese, lemon juice, and a drizzle of olive oil, and season 
with salt and pepper.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Beets have beautiful juice that will unfortunately 
stain your counters, hands, and anything else they come into 
contact with. Washing and peeling the beets in the sink will help, as 
will using a cutting board. Wear gloves if you don’t want pink hands.
Per Serving  Calories: 112; Total Carbohydrates: 10g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 164mgSERVES 4 
1 cup water
4 medium beets
½ cup crumbled goat cheese
Juice of ½ lemon
Extra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper45 VEGETABLES
VIRTUALLY INSTANT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYSpaghetti Squash with Parmesan and Pine Nuts
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Spaghetti squash is a magical vegetable that, when cooked, 
produces spaghetti-like strands that are gluten-free and low in carbohydrates. It steams 
quickly in the Instant Pot, and a topping of Parmesan, pine nuts, and basil simulates the 
flavors of pesto without all the work. Add some crispy pancetta for a little extra oomph.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Lay each squash half on its side. Scoop out all of the seeds 
and the stringy, fibrous innards with a spoon, leaving the 
two halves hollow.
2. Add the water to the Instant Pot. Set the squash inside, 
cut-side up. Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, preheat a frying or sauté pan over medium -high 
heat on the stove top. Add the pine nuts and toss every  
30 seconds for about 3 minutes, until toasted. Set aside.
5. Add the oil to the sauté pan, followed by the garlic. Sauté 
for 1 minute until cooked, but not brown. Remove from 
the heat. 
6. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
Carefully remove the squash and drain any collected water.
7. Use a fork to separate the strands from the peel, keeping the 
strands as long as possible. Place the strands in a large bowl. 
T oss with the garlic and oil, lemon juice, and most of the 
Parmesan. Season with salt and pepper. T op with the toasted 
pine nuts, more Parmesan, and basil and serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Cutting the squash crosswise ensures longer strands 
of “spaghetti.” You can stack the halves if they won’t ﬁt in the pot 
side by side.
Per Serving  Calories: 487; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 11g; Sodium: 288mgSERVES 2 TO 4 
1 (2- to 4-pound) spaghetti 
squash, halved crosswise
1 cup water
⅓ cup pine nuts
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
Juice of ½ lemon
⅓ cup grated Parmesan 
cheese
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons chopped fresh 
basil leaves46 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYRoot Vegetable Medley
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  This quick winter side dish showcases root vegetables at  
their finest. A little butter is always a great addition, and the pinch of baking soda helps 
the veggies brown without needing the oven. Serve with a roast chicken or pork loin  
and a green vegetable.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the butter. Once the butter has melted, add 
the butternut squash and toss. Cook for 4 minutes, stirring 
occasionally. 
3. Add the parsnips, turnips, broth, sugar, and baking soda, 
and season with salt and pepper. Stir and secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 6 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Drain off 
most of the liquid. T oss with the rosemary and season  
as needed.
VARIATION TIP:  You can make this into a tasty purée. Add 1 minute to 
the cook time and reserve the drained liquid. Purée and add back 
the liquid as needed for a smooth texture.
Per Serving  Calories: 117; Total Carbohydrates: 15g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 2g; Sodium: 329mgSERVES 4 TO 6 
2 tablespoons butter
1½ cups peeled  
butternut squash,  
cut into 1-inch cubes
1 cup peeled parsnips,  
cut into 1-inch cubes
1 cup peeled turnips,  
cut into 1-inch cubes
¾ cup vegetable or  
chicken broth
⅛ teaspoon sugar
¼ teaspoon baking soda
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon ﬁnely chopped 
fresh rosemary47 VEGETABLES
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYBrown Butter Fingerling Potatoes
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Don’t heat up your whole oven just for roasting a small  
pan of potatoes. You can get even better results in the pressure cooker. Browning them 
with butter first builds flavor and crisps the skin, and steaming them with a small dose 
of broth leaves them fluffy. If you don’t have rosemary, substitute parsley, tarragon, 
thyme, or basil.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat.
2. Once hot, add the butter. Once the butter is mostly 
melted, add the potatoes. Stir to coat the potatoes.
3. Cook, stirring occasionally, for about 10 minutes, or until 
the skins start to get crispy and the butter is browned, but 
not burned.
4. Add the broth and secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
7. Season with salt and pepper and top with rosemary.
COOKING TIP:  The cook time in the recipe is for medium-size 
ﬁngerlings, no more than 1 inch thick.
Per Serving  Calories: 175; Total Carbohydrates: 27g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 185mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons butter
1½ pounds small ﬁngerling 
potatoes, each pricked 
twice with a small knife
½ cup vegetable or  
chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 fresh rosemary sprig  
(leaves only), minced 48 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYHorseradish Mashed Potatoes
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  A quick trip in the pressure cooker yields tender potatoes 
ready for mashing, making this favorite side dish extra easy. A healthy dose of sour 
cream and horseradish punches things up while keeping it creamy. Serve with a hearty 
piece of meat, like the Corned Beef on page 114.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the potatoes, water, and salt to the Instant Pot. Secure 
the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan over low heat on the stove, 
heat the butter and milk just until very warm.
4. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
T est the potatoes to make sure they are tender. Carefully 
drain off the cooking liquid, reserving ½ cup.
5. Use a potato masher to mash the potatoes until fluffy and 
all lumps are gone. Add the warm milk and butter, sour 
cream, and horseradish. Season with pepper and gently 
mix until well combined.
6. If the potatoes are too thick, add cooking liquid, 1 table-
spoon at a time. T aste for seasoning. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  Bottled prepared horseradish can typically be found 
in the refrigerated aisle of your grocery store. Add more if you like 
things spicy.
Per Serving  Calories: 307; Total Carbohydrates: 43g; Saturated Fat: 9g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 409mgSERVES 8 
4 pounds Yukon Gold 
potatoes, peeled and 
quartered
3 cups water
1 teaspoon kosher salt, plus 
more for seasoning
5 tablespoons butter
½ cup whole milk
1 cup sour cream
¼ cup drained prepared 
horseradish
Freshly ground black pepper49 VEGETABLES
FAMILY-FRIENDLYSweet Potatoes with Brown Sugar Topping
VEGETARIAN  A quicker, healthier take on the traditional Thanksgiving side dish, whole 
sweet potatoes are steamed until tender, split in two, and topped with a brown sugar 
and butter topping. The topping gets a little crispy under the broiler, thanks to a bit of 
flour, making it reminiscent of a praline.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 12–18 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the water to the Instant Pot and place the steamer 
basket or steam rack on top. Place the sweet potatoes in 
the steamer basket. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 12 to  
18 minutes (12 for especially small sweet potatoes, 15 for 
medium, and 18 for large).
3. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, mix together the butter, 
brown sugar, flour, cinnamon, and salt with your fingers 
until a well -combined but crumbly mixture is formed.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
5. Preheat the oven to broil.
6. Carefully transfer the potatoes to a baking sheet. Slice each 
in half lengthwise and lay side by side, cut -side up. Sprinkle 
each half with 1 heaping tablespoon of the sugar mixture 
and broil for 3 to 5 minutes, until lightly crispy.
VARIATION TIP:  This technique would also work with marshmallows 
in place of the brown sugar topping. Place the sweet potato halves 
close together so that they are touching on the baking sheet and top 
with mini marshmallows before broiling.
Per Serving  Calories: 310; Total Carbohydrates: 58g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 3g; Sodium: 98mgSERVES 6 TO 8
1 cup water
6 medium sweet potatoes, 
pricked a few times  
with a fork
4 tablespoons butter, cubed
½ cup brown sugar
¼ cup all-purpose ﬂour
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch kosher saltBEANS  AND  GRAINSCHAPTER FOUR
BEANS AND GRAINS
Chipotle Black Beans  52
Homemade Hummus  53
Chickpea Curry  54
No-Fry Refried Beans  55
Southern -Style  
Black -Eyed Peas  56
Lentils with T omato  
and Pancetta  57
Creamy White  
Bean Dip  58
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice  59Mexican -Style  
Brown Rice  60
Brown Butter and 
Asparagus Risotto  61
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice  63
Quinoa T abbouleh  64
Rustic Herb Stuffing  65
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese  66
Cheese Grits  6752 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYChipotle Black Beans
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Dried beans, when properly cooked, have better flavor and 
texture than their canned counterparts. The pressure cooker makes preparing dried 
beans foolproof while saving you time and money. This recipe has a rich smokiness 
thanks to a dose of chili powder and chipotles in adobo.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the oil  
to the pot.
2. Once hot, add the onion, bell pepper, and garlic. Stir 
and cook for 2 minutes, until the onion starts to become 
translucent. 
3. Add the chili powder and cumin and stir, cooking for  
1 minute. Add the chipotles and stir.
4. Add the beans, broth, and salt and stir. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a  
natural release. 
7. T aste the beans for doneness and seasoning. If the beans 
aren’t as soft as you’d like, return to high pressure for 1 to  
3 minutes and use a natural release.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chipotles in adobo come in a can or jar and can be 
found in the international food section of the grocery store.
Per Serving  Calories: 375; Total Carbohydrates: 54g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 13g; Protein: 24g; Sodium: 1885mgSERVES 6 TO 8 
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 medium onion, ﬁnely diced
1 small bell pepper, ﬁnely diced
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon chili powder
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 small can chipotles in adobo, 
roughly chopped
1 pound dried black beans, 
rinsed, picked over (discard 
any bad beans), and 
soaked overnight 
8 cups vegetable or chicken 
broth or water
2 teaspoons kosher salt53 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WORTH THE WAITHomemade Hummus
GLUTEN-FREE, VEGETARIAN  This homemade hummus is made with dried chickpeas, 
which are cooked in no time in the pressure cooker—no soaking required. Don’t forget 
the first dose of oil, since it helps keep the beans from foaming too much in the pot.  
Start by making the recipe as written and then adjust it according to your taste,  
adding spices, herbs, and more.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 45 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 1 HOUR, 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH  
RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the chickpeas, water, and 2 tablespoons of oil to the 
Instant Pot and secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 45 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take about 15 minutes.
4. T est the chickpeas for doneness—they should be soft  
but not mushy. If they’re not soft enough, cook for 3 to  
5 minutes more on high pressure.
5. Carefully drain the chickpeas and reserve 1 cup of cooking 
liquid. Purée the chickpeas in a food processor with the 
remaining 4 tablespoons of oil, tahini, lemon juice, garlic, 
salt, paprika (if using), and ¼ cup of reserved cooking 
liquid. Add more liquid as needed to reach the desired 
consistency.
6. Serve or store for up to 5 days in the refrigerator.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chickpeas are also known as garbanzo beans. T ahini 
is a sesame seed paste that’s typically found in a jar and keeps for 
months in the refrigerator.
Per Serving  Calories: 264; Total Carbohydrates: 20g; Saturated Fat: 3g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 459mgSERVES 8 TO 10 
8 ounces dried chickpeas, 
rinsed and picked over 
(discard any bad beans)
4 cups water
6 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
⅓ cup tahini
¼ cup freshly squeezed  
lemon juice
3 garlic cloves, minced
1½ teaspoons kosher salt
½ teaspoon smoked paprika 
(optional)54 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINChickpea Curry
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  For a simple vegan curry, chickpeas provide a hearty base. 
Fresh veggies make this dish extra healthy, and garlic and curry powder lend the curry 
a spiced but not spicy flavor. Serve over steamy jasmine rice or with warm naan.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil and onion and stir. Cook for  
4 minutes until the onion is translucent and starting to 
brown. Add the bell pepper and garlic and cook for  
2 minutes more. 
3. Add the curry powder and stir. Cook for 30 seconds  
before adding the chickpeas, tomatoes with juice, corn, 
okra, kale, broth, and sugar or honey. Stir and secure  
the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release.
6. Add the salt, pepper, and lime juice. Stir and taste, adding 
more salt as needed.
7. T op with cilantro leaves and serve. 
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  If you don’t like cilantro, use ﬂat-leaf parsley instead.
Per Serving  Calories: 430; Total Carbohydrates: 58g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 13g; Protein: 20g; Sodium: 811mgSERVES 4 TO 6
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 onion, diced
1 small green bell pepper, diced
2 large garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon curry powder
2 (15-ounce) cans chickpeas, 
rinsed and drained
1 (14.5-ounce) can crushed or 
diced tomatoes with juice
1 cup frozen corn
1 cup frozen sliced okra
1 packed cup chopped  
kale leaves
1 cup vegetable or  
chicken broth
1 tablespoon sugar or honey
1 teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
Juice of 1 lime
2 tablespoons cilantro leaves55 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYNo-Fry Refried Beans
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  These beans may not technically be refried, but they have the 
same great flavor and texture as the classic south-of-the-border dish, without all of the 
time, effort, or fat. Oil helps prevent foaming, and a quick mash yields a creamy side 
dish. A sprinkle of cheese and a squeeze of lime wouldn’t hurt.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 35 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the beans, oil, garlic, onion, cilantro, and water to the 
pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 35 minutes. 
3. When cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a natural 
release. This will take about 15 minutes.
4. Carefully drain the beans, reserving 2 cups of cooking liquid. 
5. Return the beans to the pot and add back 1 cup of cooking 
liquid. Add the salt.
6. Mash the beans well with a potato masher or use an 
immersion blender. If the mixture is dry, add more 
cooking liquid ¼ cup at a time until the desired texture is 
reached. T aste and season again if needed. 
7. Store leftovers in individual containers and freeze for up  
to 3 months.
COOKING TIP:  There’s no need to soak your beans for this recipe—
they’ll turn out nice and tender and it only adds a few minutes of 
cook time.
Per Serving  Calories: 250; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 12g; Sodium: 446mgMAKES 5 CUPS  
(8 TO 10 SERVINGS)
1 pound dried pinto beans, 
rinsed and picked over 
(discard any bad beans)
3 tablespoons canola oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium onion, diced
3 cilantro sprigs,  
with stems, chopped
8 cups water
1½ teaspoons kosher salt 56 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINSouthern-Style Black-Eyed Peas
GLUTEN-FREE  Black-eyed peas—a type of bean—are a staple of the South, and are 
almost always cooked with some form of pork. Here, bacon lends a salty and smoky 
note that pairs nicely with the earthy beans. Eat them on New Year’s Day to ensure 
good luck for the year.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat your Instant Pot, select Sauté. 
2. When hot, add the bacon. Cook until lightly crispy and 
turn to cook the other side. Remove the bacon, cut into a 
few pieces, and set aside.
3. Add the oil, onion, and garlic. Stir and cook for 3 minutes 
until the onion is translucent. 
4. Add the bacon, black -eyed peas, broth or water, and bay 
leaf and stir. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release.
7. Carefully drain the beans, remove the bay leaf, and season 
with salt and pepper. If the beans aren’t quite cooked, 
return to high pressure for 3 minutes.
COOKING TIP:  If you didn’t plan ahead and soak your beans, don’t 
worry! Simply add 10 minutes to the cook time.
Per Serving  Calories: 196; Total Carbohydrates: 11g; Saturated Fat: 3g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 13g; Sodium: 1077mgSERVES 4 TO 5
3 thick-cut bacon slices
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 small onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
8 ounces black-eyed peas, 
rinsed, picked over  
(discard any bad beans), 
and soaked for at least  
6 hours
4 cups chicken broth or water
1 bay leaf
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper57 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WINLentils with Tomato and Pancetta
GLUTEN-FREE  Lentils typically benefit from a couple of aromatics and a slow simmer, 
but pressure cooking intensifies the flavor and cuts the time in half. Pancetta adds salt, 
meat, and fat, and tomatoes make a rich sauce. Serve the lentils over polenta or rice,  
or as a side dish.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil. Add the pancetta and stir. Add the 
onion and stir again, cooking for 30 seconds.
3. Add the carrot and celery. Stir and cook for 2 minutes, or 
until the onion starts to become translucent. Add the salt 
and pepper.
4. Add the tomatoes, lentils, and broth or water and stir. 
Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. T aste the 
lentils for doneness and seasoning.
7. If they are not soft enough, cook on the Sauté setting for  
5 to 10 minutes. This will also reduce any excess liquid.
VARIATION TIP:  T o turn this into a soup, add 1 to 2 more cups of broth.
Per Serving  Calories: 448; Total Carbohydrates: 40g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 19g; Protein: 30g; Sodium: 1344mgSERVES 5 TO 6 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
6 ounces pancetta, cut into 
¼-inch cubes
1 small red onion, chopped
1 carrot, diced
2 small celery stalks, chopped
½ teaspoon kosher salt, plus 
more for seasoning
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
2 medium tomatoes, diced
1½ cups dried green lentils
2 cups chicken broth or water58 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYCreamy White Bean Dip
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  For a healthy snack that feels indulgent, try this creamy  
dip made with white beans. Cooking the dried beans in the pressure cooker means 
better flavor and texture without a long wait time. Serve with pita chips and carrot 
sticks for dipping.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 55 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the beans, water, garlic, oil, salt, and pepper to the 
Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes.
3. Select Cancel and use a natural release. This will take about 
15 minutes.
4. Carefully drain the beans and reserve 1 cup of cooking 
liquid. Purée the beans in a food processor or mash well 
in a large bowl until creamy. If the purée is too thick, add 
cooking liquid, 1 tablespoon at a time.
5. Add the lemon juice and rosemary, and season with 
salt and pepper. Mix well and add more lemon juice or 
seasoning if desired. 
6. Drizzle with oil and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  For an even faster cook time, soak the beans 
overnight and cut the pressure-cooking time by half.
Per Serving ( ⅓ cup)  Calories: 95; Total Carbohydrates: 16g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 132mgMAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS 
8 ounces dried white beans 
(Great Northern), rinsed 
and picked over (discard 
any bad beans)
4 cups water
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive 
oil, plus more for garnish
½ teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
Juice of ½ lemon, plus 
additional if desired
½ teaspoon ﬁnely chopped 
fresh rosemary leaves59 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYSuper-Fast Red Beans and Rice
GLUTEN-FREE  Make beans and rice extra fast by cooking them together in the pressure 
cooker. Long-grain white rice and canned red beans happily simmer together in the 
pressure cooker along with salty bacon. It’s a simple but satisfying dish that uses pantry 
staples, so it’s a great recipe to have in your back pocket.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the bacon and cook until lightly crisp. 
Remove and set aside.
3. Add the onion and sauté for 2 minutes. Add the bell 
pepper and cook for 2 minutes more. Add the garlic and 
cook for 1 minute more, until the onion is translucent.
4. Add the cayenne and bacon and stir. Add the rice, beans, 
and broth and stir. Season with salt and pepper. Secure  
the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
6. Once the cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
DID YOU KNOW? : Beans and rice come together to form a complete 
protein, making the combination more than just delicious.
Per Serving  Calories: 431; Total Carbohydrates: 74g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 12g; Protein: 21g; Sodium: 1218mgSERVES 4
3 bacon slices, chopped into 
¼-inch pieces
1 onion, chopped
1 bell pepper, chopped
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 large pinches cayenne 
1 cup long-grain white rice
2 (15-ounce) cans red kidney 
beans, rinsed and drained
2 cups chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper60 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYMexican-Style Brown Rice
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  This T ex-Mex side dish is an upgraded version of the rice 
that’s typically served at American Mexican restaurants, and uses healthy brown rice 
instead of white. The rice is toasted in oil first to give it a nice texture, then cooked with 
tomato sauce and aromatics. Serve with black beans like the ones on page 52, or refried 
beans like the ones on page 55, and enchiladas or tacos.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 23 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the oil.
2. Add the rice and onion and cook, stirring, for 3 minutes. 
Add the garlic and cumin and cook for 1 minute more.
3. Add the tomato sauce, water or broth, and salt. Stir.  
Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 23 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
6. Add the cilantro and more salt if needed. Serve.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Rice function is not recommended for varieties of 
rice other than white rice, so it’s not the best setting for this recipe. 
Per Serving  Calories: 314; Total Carbohydrates: 48g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 635mgSERVES 5 TO 6
3 tablespoons canola oil
1½ cups brown rice
1 small onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
¼ teaspoon ground cumin
1 (8-ounce) can plain  
tomato sauce
1 ⅓ cups water or  
chicken broth
¼ teaspoon kosher salt, plus 
more if needed
2 tablespoons ﬁnely chopped 
cilantro leaves61 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYBrown Butter and Asparagus Risotto
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Don’t spend your evening standing over a pot of risotto and 
stirring, stirring, stirring. Instead, let the pressure cooker do the hard work for you. This 
version combines fresh roasted asparagus with brown butter, shallots, and Parmesan 
cheese. It’s a creamy side dish for meat or a meal all on its own.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. T oss the asparagus pieces in the oil and arrange in a single 
layer on a baking sheet. Season with salt and pepper. 
Roast for 10 to 15 minutes (depending on the size of the 
asparagus), until tender but still a little crisp.
3. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the butter.
4. Cook, swirling around with a spoon, for about 3 minutes, 
or until the butter is a light brown color. Add the shallots 
and cook for 2 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for  
1 minute more.
5. Add the wine. Stir and cook for about 3 minutes, or until 
the alcohol smell has gone away and much of the wine has 
evaporated.
6. Add the broth and rice and stir. Season with salt and 
pepper. Secure the lid.
7. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 6 minutes.   ▶SERVES 5 TO 6 
1 pound asparagus, cut into 
1-inch pieces
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
5 tablespoons butter
4 medium shallots, chopped
4 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup dry white wine
4 cups good-quality vegetable 
or chicken broth, preferably 
homemade (try the recipes 
on pages 141 and 140)
2 cups Arborio or Calrose rice
¼ cup or more heavy cream 
(optional)
½ cup ﬁnely grated Parmesan 
cheese, plus more for 
serving62 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKBrown Butter and Asparagus Risotto (continued)
8. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Stir. If the risotto is too 
soupy, select Sauté and cook, uncovered, for a few minutes. Add the cream 
(if using) and Parmesan and taste for seasoning.
9. Stir in the asparagus, reserving a few pieces to display on top. Serve 
topped with the reserved asparagus and a healthy dose of Parmesan.
VARIATION TIP:  For pea risotto, omit the asparagus and skip the roasting step.  
Stir in 1 to 2 cups fresh or frozen peas just after pressure cooking.
Per Serving  Calories: 441; Total Carbohydrates: 50g; Saturated Fat: 11g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 2g; Protein: 14g; Sodium: 835mg63 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYFaster-than-Fast-Food Fried Rice
VEGETARIAN  Fried rice is typically made with leftover, cold rice, but sometimes you 
want fried rice and you want it now. In that case, you can cook the rice and fry it in just 
30 minutes using just one pot. This makes an excellent side dish for a stir-fry.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: ABOUT 10 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 35 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the rice, water, and salt to the Instant Pot and secure 
the lid.
2. Select Rice and cook for the automated amount of time  
(8 to 15 minutes). 
3. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and let naturally 
release for 10 minutes. Release any remaining steam.
4. Stir the rice and push it up against the sides, exposing the 
bottom of the pot in the middle.
5. Select Sauté on high heat. Wait 1 minute and add the oil to 
the bottom of the pot.
6. Add the scallions and eggs to the oil. Use a spoon or 
spatula to break up and scramble the eggs and scrape the 
bottom of the pot.
7. Once the eggs are mostly cooked, stir them into the rice 
and cook, stirring, for a few minutes. Select Cancel, add 
the soy sauce, and stir.
INSTANT POT TIP:  You can also use the Manual setting, or swap out 
the white rice for brown. Consult your Instant Pot manual or the 
Electric Pressure Cooking Time Charts at the back of this book for 
the correct cook times.
Per Serving  Calories: 449; Total Carbohydrates: 78g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 11g; Sodium: 1009mgSERVES 4 
2 cups long-grain white rice
3 cups water
½ teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons canola oil
10 scallions, ﬁnely chopped
2 eggs, lightly beaten
3 tablespoons soy sauce64 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTQuinoa Tabbouleh
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  T abbouleh is traditionally made with bulgur wheat, but this 
version uses high-protein, gluten-free quinoa instead. Chopped cucumber, tomato, mint, 
and garlic add fresh flavor to this side dish. Serve with kebabs or a Greek salad, along 
with pita and Homemade Hummus (page 53).
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 MINUTE • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the quinoa, water, 1 tablespoon of oil, and the salt to 
the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 minute.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. T ransfer 
the quinoa to a large bowl and let it cool for a few minutes.
4. Add the tomato, cucumber, garlic, mint and/or parsley, 
remaining 1 tablespoon of oil, and the lemon juice. Mix 
and season with salt and pepper.
VARIATION TIP:  Turn this into a full-blown salad with dressed spinach, 
feta cheese, and toasted almonds.
Per Serving  Calories: 256; Total Carbohydrates: 35g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 297mgSERVES 4 TO 6
1 cup quinoa, rinsed  
and drained
1 ⅔ cups water
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
½ teaspoon kosher salt,  
plus more as needed
1 medium tomato, ﬁnely 
chopped and seeded
1 small cucumber, ﬁnely 
chopped
1 large garlic clove, minced
⅓ cup ﬁnely chopped fresh 
mint and/ or parsley
Juice of 1 lemon
Freshly ground black pepper65 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYRustic Herb Stuffing
VEGETARIAN  If your holidays are anything like mine, space in your oven is at a 
premium. It leaves me scrambling for other ways to cook dishes so that everything is 
warm at the same time. That’s when I figured out I could cook stuffing (also known as 
dressing) in the pressure cooker. I finish it off in the oven to crisp up, but you can skip 
this step if you don’t care about a crunchy top.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Add the butter. Once melted, add the onion, shallots, and 
celery. Sauté for 5 minutes, until translucent. Select Cancel 
and transfer the veggies and butter to a large bowl.
3. Add the dried bread, sage, parsley, rosemary, thyme, salt, 
pepper, eggs, and broth to the bowl. Mix just until well 
combined.
4. Add the mixture to the butter -coated pot. Press very lightly 
and secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 20 minutes.
6. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Using a 
large serving spoon, scoop out the stuffing onto a large 
rimmed baking sheet.
8. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes or until crisp on top.
INGREDIENT TIP:  You can use packaged dried bread cubes for this 
recipe or make your own. T o make your own, cut white bread into 
½-inch cubes. Spread out on a baking sheet and bake, stirring 
occasionally, in a 250°F oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until  
dried out.
Per Serving  Calories: 180; Total Carbohydrates: 9g; Saturated Fat: 8g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 5g; Sodium: 885mgSERVES 6 
6 tablespoons butter
1 onion, chopped  
(about 1 cup)
3 large shallots, diced
1 cup chopped celery
8 cups plain dried bread  
cubes (see Ingredient Tip)
1 heaping tablespoon  
chopped fresh sage
1 tablespoon chopped  
fresh parsley
2 teaspoons chopped  
fresh rosemary leaves
1 teaspoon chopped  
fresh thyme
1 teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
2 eggs, beaten
2½ cups vegetable or  
chicken broth66 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYWhole-Wheat Creamy Mac and Cheese
VEGETARIAN  Ooey-gooey mac and cheese is made a little healthier with whole-wheat 
macaroni, but doesn’t skimp on the cheesy goodness. Everyone will gobble up this 
decadent side dish. Add crispy bacon, fresh peas, or chopped tomatoes at the end if  
you want to mix it up.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 4–5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the macaroni, butter, mustard, salt, pepper, and water 
to the Instant Pot. Stir and secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for half of the 
pasta package cooking time minus 1 minute. For example, 
if the cook time is 10 minutes, cook at high pressure for  
4 minutes.
3. Once the cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
Carefully place a kitchen towel over the steam valve at first 
to prevent a hot spray.
4. Check the pasta for doneness. If it’s not cooked enough, 
select Sauté and cook with the top off for 2 to 3 minutes 
until done.
5. Select Sauté and add the evaporated milk. Stir well. Add 
the Cheddar, Monterey Jack, and Parmesan one handful at 
a time, stirring after each.
6. Serve immediately or, if desired, transfer to a baking dish  
and top with breadcrumbs. Broil for a few minutes for a 
crispy topping.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  You can change out these cheeses based on your 
preference using pepper Jack, mild Cheddar, mozzarella, and more.
Per Serving  Calories: 754; Total Carbohydrates: 64g; Saturated Fat: 25g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 39g; Sodium: 1863mgSERVES 6 
1 pound uncooked whole-wheat 
macaroni
3 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon yellow mustard
1 tablespoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
4 cups water
1 (12-ounce) can  
evaporated milk
10 ounces shredded sharp 
Cheddar cheese
8 ounces shredded Monterey 
Jack cheese
2 ounces grated Parmesan 
cheese
1 cup plain breadcrumbs 
(optional)67 BEANS  AND  GRAINS
WEEKDAY WINCheese Grits
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Grits are a Southern specialty, and while they can be a  
bit bland on their own, a little butter and cheese turns them into a rich, tasty side dish. 
Serve them with breakfast or brunch, or top them with tender meat or spicy shrimp.  
I like mine topped with the Lentils with T omato and Pancetta from page 57.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the cornmeal, water, salt, pepper, and butter to the 
Instant Pot. Stir and secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 15 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, let naturally release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining steam.
4. Immediately add the cheese and whisk vigorously until 
smooth and slightly cooled. Serve immediately. 
VARIATION TIP:  If you’d like to make this recipe a little healthier, 
decrease the butter to 2 tablespoons and halve the cheese. I 
recommend using a strong-tasting cheese in this case, like extra-
sharp Cheddar.
Per Serving  Calories: 326; Total Carbohydrates: 24g; Saturated Fat: 13g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 9g; Sodium: 1136mgSERVES 4
1 cup coarse-ground  
cornmeal (grits)
3½ cups water
1½ teaspoons kosher salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
4 tablespoons butter,  
cut into pieces
1 cup shredded Cheddar cheeseSOUPS , STEWS ,  AND  CHILIESCHAPTER FIVE
SOUPS, STEWS,  
AND CHILIES
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa  70
Fresh T omato Soup  71
Creamy Cauliflower  
and Potato Soup  72
Thai -Style Corn 
Chowder  73
Creamy Broccoli  
and Leek Soup  74
One -Hour Matzo  
Ball Soup  75
Vietnamese Chicken 
Noodle Soup  
(Pho Ga)  77
French Onion Soup  78Butternut Squash  
and Sausage Soup with 
Crispy Sage  79
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup  80
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp  81
Beef Stew with 
Mushrooms and 
Barley  82
Tuscan Chicken Stew  83
Lightning -Fast  
Veggie Chili  84
Chorizo Chili  8570 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYVegan Black Bean Soup with Avocado Salsa
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  This richly flavored black bean soup is cooked from dried 
beans—no soaking required—in a little over an hour. Roasted poblanos add mild but 
deep flavor, and a cool topping of avocado salsa makes this more than just your average 
black bean soup. 
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
10 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the oven to broil.
2. Rub the poblanos with 1 teaspoon of oil. Broil until blistered 
on all sides. Once cool enough to handle, slide off any loose 
skin, remove the stem and seeds, and chop the poblanos.
3. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Once hot, add 
the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil followed by all but  
¼ cup of the onion, the bell pepper, and the garlic. Stir and 
cook for about 3 minutes, until the onion softens.
4. Add the roasted poblano, cumin, chili powder, and oregano. 
Stir and cook for 1 minute. Add the beans, bay leaf, and 
broth, and season with salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes.
6. Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, combine the avocados, 
tomato, the reserved ¼ cup of diced onion, the cilantro, 
and a squeeze of lime juice. Season with salt and pepper.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for about 
15 minutes. Remove the bay leaf.
8. Add the remaining lime juice to the pot. The liquid will 
thicken upon standing. If desired, purée up to half of the 
soup with an immersion blender or in a countertop blender. 
Serve hot, topped with avocado salsa.
VARIATION TIP:  If you’re not eating vegan, add a dollop of sour cream.
Per Serving  Calories: 527; Total Carbohydrates: 63g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 18g; Protein: 25g; Sodium: 940mgSERVES 6 TO 8 
2 poblano peppers
2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon 
extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1 large yellow onion, ﬁnely 
diced, ¼ cup reserved
1 bell pepper, ﬁnely diced
5 garlic cloves, minced
2 teaspoons ground cumin
2 teaspoons chili powder
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 pound dried black beans, 
rinsed and picked over 
(discard any bad beans)
1 bay leaf
7 cups vegetable broth  
(try the recipe on page 141)
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 medium avocados, peeled, 
pitted, diced, and tossed 
with 1 tablespoon freshly 
squeezed lime juice
1 large tomato or 2 small 
tomatoes, chopped
2 tablespoons chopped 
cilantro 
1 lime, halved71 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYFresh Tomato Soup
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  At the end of the summer, a final bumper crop of beautiful 
tomatoes arrives. Even if you’re sick of eating fresh tomatoes all summer, the tasty 
beauties can be used to make a fantastic soup. Serve this forgivingly simple dish with 
crusty garlic bread.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion and carrot. 
Cook for 6 to 7 minutes, until the onion is translucent. 
Add the garlic and cook for 2 minutes more.
3. Add the tomatoes, sugar, tomato paste, and broth. Season 
with salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, let naturally release for  
10 minutes. Release any remaining steam.
6. Add the cream. Use an immersion blender to purée the 
soup or carefully purée in batches in a blender. If there  
are chunks of peel and they bother you, strain the soup  
or run it through a food mill. Add more broth if a thinner 
soup is desired.
7. T aste for seasoning. Serve topped with fresh basil and 
Parmesan (if using).
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  T o make this dish Paleo, leave out the sugar and 
Parmesan and replace the cream with more broth.
Per Serving  Calories: 239; Total Carbohydrates: 22g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 5g; Sodium: 225mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 large red onion, chopped
1 large carrot, peeled  
and chopped
3 garlic cloves, smashed
3 pounds high-quality ripe 
tomatoes, coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon tomato paste
¾ cup vegetable or chicken 
broth, plus more if needed
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
⅓ cup heavy cream
Fresh basil, for garnish 
(optional)
Parmesan cheese, for garnish 
(optional)72 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCreamy Cauliflower and Potato Soup
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Add some much-needed nutrition to potato soup while still 
achieving creamy results by replacing half of the potatoes with cauliflower. Your family 
will never know! Notice that the cauliflower is cut into bigger pieces than the potatoes, 
allowing you to cook them at the same rate.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion and garlic.  
Stir and cook for about 3 minutes, until the onion begins 
to turn translucent.
3. Add the cauliflower, potatoes, and broth. Season with salt 
and pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and let naturally 
release for 10 minutes. Release any remaining steam.
6. The potatoes and cauliflower should be very tender. Add 
the milk or half -and-half and ½ cup of cheese. 
7. Blend until smooth using an immersion blender. Alter-
natively, blend in batches in a blender, being careful to 
crack the lid. Add more broth if you want a thinner soup.
8. T aste for seasoning. Serve topped with a sprinkle of the 
remaining Cheddar.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  Make this soup vegan by using nondairy milk and 
omitting the cheese.
Per Serving  Calories: 354; Total Carbohydrates: 35g; Saturated Fat: 8g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 19g; Sodium: 1058mgSERVES 4 TO 5 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, diced
3 garlic cloves, smashed
1 medium cauliﬂower head, 
broken into large ﬂorets 
1 pound Yukon Gold potatoes, 
peeled and cut into  
½-inch cubes
4 cups vegetable or chicken 
broth, plus more if needed
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup whole milk or  
half-and-half
1 cup shredded sharp Cheddar 
cheese, divided73 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
VIRTUALLY INSTANTThai-Style Corn Chowder
VEGETARIAN  Fresh, in-season corn is totally delicious, and this 20-minute soup puts  
it front and center. Perfect for late summer when corn on the cob abounds, this chowder  
is creamy, lightly spicy, and vegan to boot. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. On a large plate or platter, cut the corn off the cob. Use the 
back of your knife to scrape the juicy corn pulp off the cobs.
2. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
3. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion and bell pepper. 
Cook, stirring, for about 3 minutes, until the onion begins 
to turn translucent. Add the garlic, sesame oil, paprika, and 
red pepper flakes and cook for 2 minutes more. 
4. Add the broth and corn along with any pulp and stir. 
Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a  
quick release.
7. Add the coconut milk, soy sauce, and lime juice. Season 
with salt and pepper.
8. Use an immersion blender to blend about two -thirds of 
the soup. Alternatively, blend two -thirds of the soup in 
batches in a counter  top blender.
9. Recombine the smooth and chunky parts of the soup and 
reheat if needed. Serve sprinkled with parsley.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Choose corn that’s still in its leaves with light yellow 
silk. The kernels should be nice and plump. If possible, use the corn 
within a day or two of buying—it’s best when super fresh.
Per Serving  Calories: 400; Total Carbohydrates: 33g; Saturated Fat: 21g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 569mgSERVES 4 
6 ears corn, shucked
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 medium onion, ﬁnely diced 
1 red bell pepper, ﬁnely diced 
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 teaspoons sesame oil
¼ teaspoon smoked paprika
⅛ teaspoon red pepper ﬂakes
1½ cups vegetable broth, plus 
extra if needed
1 (13.5-ounce) can light 
coconut milk
1 tablespoon soy sauce
Juice of 1 small lime
Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepper
1 heaping tablespoon  
chopped fresh parsley 
leaves, for garnish74 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCreamy Broccoli and Leek Soup
VEGETARIAN  Try this creamy broccoli soup for a quick and nutritious weeknight meal. 
It goes great with a grilled cheese sandwich, and might even get your kids to eat broccoli. 
Frozen broccoli will work in a pinch.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add 1 tablespoon of butter. Once melted, add 
the leeks and garlic and sauté for 5 minutes, or until the 
leeks are translucent. 
3. Add the broccoli and broth, and season with salt and 
pepper. Add the red pepper flakes (if using). Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 6 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, in a small saucepan over medium -high heat, 
melt the remaining 3 tablespoons of butter on the stove. 
Whisk in the flour, followed by the milk. Cook, stirring, 
until thick and bubbly.
6. Once the pressure cooking is complete, use a natural release.
7. Add the Parmesan. Purée the broccoli and broth using 
an immersion blender or countertop blender. If using a 
countertop blender, blend in batches with the lid slightly 
cracked.
8. Return the broccoli mixture to the pot and add the milk 
mixture, stirring well. T aste for seasoning. If needed, select 
Sauté to reheat the soup.
9. Serve in bowls with a sprinkling of Parmesan on top.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Leeks have pretty, overlapping leaves that like to hide 
sandy dirt. Soaking your leeks in cold water for about 30 minutes 
will help, followed by a good rinse.
Per Serving  Calories: 294; Total Carbohydrates: 27g; Saturated Fat: 9g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 14g; Sodium: 853mgSERVES 4
4 tablespoons butter, divided
2 large leeks, soaked, rinsed, 
and chopped
3 garlic cloves, smashed
1½ pounds broccoli,  
cut into ﬂorets
3 cups vegetable or  
chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 pinches red pepper ﬂakes 
(optional)
3 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour
1 cup milk, plus more if needed
¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese, 
plus more for garnish75 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYOne-Hour Matzo Ball Soup
Matzo ball soup always seems to be worth the time it takes to make, but wouldn’t it 
be great if you could make it faster? With the help of a pressure cooker, you can have a 
deeply flavorful soup with tender matzo balls in an hour. This recipe utilizes premade 
broth, and you can make the matzo ball mixture up to a day ahead. The matzo balls 
are cooked separately from the broth to prevent a cloudy soup. I highly recommend 
using homemade broth for the best flavor.
PREP: 20 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO CHILL  
PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR, 10 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK, NATURAL
1. In a small bowl, combine the matzo meal, baking powder, 
1 teaspoon of salt, pepper, and nutmeg.
2. In a medium bowl, beat together the eggs, ¼ cup of water, 
and the oil. Add the matzo mixture and mix well. The 
mixture will look like oatmeal. If it seems too soupy, add  
1 table  spoon more matzo meal. Chill in the refrigerator for 
at least 30 minutes. The mixture will be easier to work with 
the longer it sits.
3. Meanwhile, add the chicken, 3 cups of water, the remaining 
½ teaspoon salt, and the bay leaf to the Instant Pot. Select 
Manual and cook for 10 minutes at high pressure.
4. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a quick 
release. Remove the chicken and set aside. Remove the bay 
leaf and discard.
5. Add water until the liquid in the Instant Pot reaches 5 cups 
(about 2 cups more water). Using a spoon and wet hands, 
form the matzo ball mixture into walnut -size balls (about  
2 tablespoons). As you form them, set them on a plate. 
Once all of the balls are formed, carefully add them to the 
pot one at a time.  ▶SERVES 4 TO 5
1 cup matzo meal, plus more  
if needed
⅛ teaspoon baking powder
1½ teaspoons kosher salt, 
divided, plus more for 
seasoning
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper, plus more  
for seasoning
Pinch ground nutmeg
4 eggs
5¼ cups water, divided
¼ cup canola or vegetable oil
1 bone-in, skin-on  
chicken breast
1 bay leaf
6 cups homemade chicken 
broth (try the recipe on 
page 140)
1 large carrot, ﬁnely diced
2 celery stalks, ﬁnely diced
1 tablespoon chopped fresh 
dill (optional)76 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKOne-Hour Matzo Ball Soup (continued)
6. Make sure the balls are all separated without disturbing them too much. 
Secure the lid.
7. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
8. Meanwhile, in a large pot on the stove, heat the broth to a low simmer. 
Add the carrot and celery and cook for 5 minutes. Season with salt and 
pepper and turn the heat to low.
9. Bone the chicken and discard the skin. Shred the meat.
10. Once the pressure cooking is complete, use a natural release. 
11. Ladle the broth and veggies into bowls and add the chicken. Add 2 to  
3 matzo balls per bowl and top with fresh dill (if using).
INGREDIENT TIP:  You can easily make your own matzo meal using regular matzo. 
Simply break it into medium-size pieces and pulse it in your food processor until a 
cornmeal-like texture is reached. One sleeve of matzo typically yields 1 cup of meal.
Per Serving  Calories: 456; Total Carbohydrates: 28g; Saturated Fat: 5g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 2g; Protein: 34g; Sodium: 2156mg77 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WEEKDAY WINVietnamese Chicken Noodle Soup Pho Ga
GLUTEN-FREE  In Vietnam, pho is eaten morning, noon, and night. The flavorful broth is 
traditionally cooked for hours to achieve a full-bodied flavor, but with a pressure cooker, 
you can enjoy this rich and complex soup in a fraction of the time. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat.
2. Once hot, add the oil to the pot. Add the onions, cut -
side down, and the ginger. Cook, without moving, until 
charred—about 4 minutes.
3. Add the coriander, star anise, cloves, cinnamon stick, and 
cardamom. Stir and cook for 1 minute more. Add the 
chicken, fish sauce, and sugar and immediately pour over 
the water. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes and release any remaining steam. Remove  
the chicken from the pot and carefully strain the broth. 
Season with salt and pepper as desired.
6. Place the cooked noodles in 4 bowls. When the chicken 
is cool enough to handle, pick the meat off the bones 
and add to the bowls. Pour over the broth and top with 
scallions, herbs, lime, and bean sprouts and jalapeño  
(if using).
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you have trouble ﬁnding whole dried spices, try 
your local international market or health food store, or order  
them online.
Per Serving  Calories: 620; Total Carbohydrates: 57g; Saturated Fat: 8g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 25g; Sodium: 1220mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 medium yellow onions, halved
1 (2-inch) piece ginger,  
cut into ¼-inch slices
1 tablespoon coriander seeds
3 star anise pods
5 cloves
1 cinnamon stick
3 cardamom pods,  
lightly smashed
6 bone-in, skin-on  
chicken thighs
3 tablespoons ﬁsh sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
8 cups water
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 servings rice noodles, 
prepared according to 
package directions
T oppings
3 scallions, sliced
1 small handful fresh herbs, 
such as mint, cilantro, and  
Thai basil, chopped
1 lime, cut into wedges
Handful of bean sprouts 
(optional)
1 jalapeño, thinly sliced 
(optional)78 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYFrench Onion Soup
French onion soup seems a lot harder to make than it actually is. The onions are 
caramelized in the Instant Pot and then cooked with savory broth. A topping of toast 
and Gruyère cheese turns this simple soup into a decadent dish.
PREP: 30 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the butter.
2. Once the butter has melted, add the onions and stir. Cover 
loosely with the lid and cook, stirring occasionally, until 
translucent, about 15 minutes.
3. Lower the heat to low. Season with salt and pepper and 
add the sugar. Cook, stirring frequently, until the onions 
turn golden brown and become translucent, about  
10 minutes.
4. Raise the heat back to medium. Add the wine, scrape off 
any brown bits from the bottom of the pot, and let most of 
the wine evaporate.
5. Add the broth and thyme and season with salt and pepper. 
Secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 6 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release.
8. Preheat the oven to broil.
9. Spoon the soup into ovenproof bowls and top with toasted 
bread. Sprinkle the top with cheese and place under the 
broiler for 5 to 7 minutes until the cheese is bubbly.
COOKING TIP:  This soup is great for making ahead. Make the soup 
through step 7, then cool and freeze or refrigerate. T o serve, reheat 
it on the stove and then proceed with the recipe as written. 
Per Serving  Calories: 598; Total Carbohydrates: 59g; Saturated Fat: 15g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 23g; Sodium: 1864mgSERVES 4 TO 5 
5 tablespoons butter
2 pounds yellow and/ or  
sweet onions, cut into 
⅛-inch slices
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Pinch sugar
½ cup dry white wine
6 cups beef or chicken broth, 
preferably homemade  
(try the recipes on  
pages 142 and 140)
2 fresh thyme sprigs
1 loaf French bread, cut into 
¾-inch slices and toasted 
(enough to cover the top of 
4 or 5 bowls)
1 cup grated Gruyère cheese79 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYButternut Squash and Sausage Soup with Crispy Sage
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Butternut squash soup is perfect for fall, but it tastes 
great all year long. Sausage pairs nicely with the lightly sweet and creamy soup, and 
fried sage adds an herby crunch. The baking soda helps the squash magically brown in 
the pot, giving the soup a stronger flavor.
PREP: 12 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté on high. Once hot, 
add the oil followed by the sage leaves. Fry for 2 to 3 minutes 
until crispy. Remove and drain on a paper towel. 
2. Add the sausage. Use a spoon or spatula to break up the 
sausage into small pieces as it cooks. Continue until the 
sausage is cooked through. Use a slotted spoon to transfer 
the sausage to a plate.
3. Add the onion to the pot and cook for 1 minute. Add the 
celery and garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, for about 
3 minutes, or until the onion is translucent and lightly 
browned.
4. Add the squash, broth, and baking soda and stir. Season 
with salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release.
7. Add the cream (if using) and nutmeg, and purée with an 
immersion blender. Alternatively, blend in batches in a 
blender with the lid slightly cracked. Add more broth or 
cream if you want a thinner soup. Add the sausage, and 
taste for seasoning. Serve in bowls topped with crispy sage.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  T o make this dish Paleo, leave out the cream and 
substitute with more broth.
Per Serving  Calories: 536; Total Carbohydrates: 26g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 29g; Sodium: 261mgSERVES 4
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil 
8 fresh sage leaves
10 ounces uncooked Italian-
style pork or chicken 
sausage, without casing
½ large yellow onion, chopped
2 small celery stalks, chopped
2 large garlic cloves, smashed
1 medium butternut squash, 
peeled, seeded, and cut 
into 1-inch cubes (about  
4 cups)
2 cups chicken or vegetable 
broth, plus more as needed
½ teaspoon baking soda
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
½ cup heavy cream or half-
and-half (optional)
Pinch ground nutmeg80 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYSweet Potato, Sausage, and Kale Soup
GLUTEN-FREE  Sweet potatoes are high in fiber and nutrients, and kale is a bona fide 
superfood. They come together with the help of flavorful sausage to make a wholesome, 
meal-in-a-bowl soup. Kielbasa works great, but any hard sausage of a similar style 
works, including Portuguese linguiça or Spanish chorizo.
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 8 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the sausage. Cook, 
stirring, for about 7 minutes, until browned. Remove and 
place on paper towels to drain.
3. Add the onion and garlic. Cook for 5 minutes, or until the 
onion is translucent. 
4. Add the sweet potatoes, potatoes, and broth. Season with 
salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 8 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a  
natural release for 10 minutes and then release any 
remaining steam.
7. Use a potato masher or immersion blender to mash about 
half of the potatoes, leaving some chunks. 
8. Select Sauté and add the kale. Cook for 5 minutes more 
until the kale is wilted. Add the sausage and serve.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Soup setting can be used for this recipe. When 
you’re ready to pressure-cook, select Soup and set the timer for  
8 minutes. Proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 450; Total Carbohydrates: 64g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 16g; Sodium: 1396mgSERVES 6 TO 8 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 (10-ounce) fully cooked 
kielbasa, linguiça, or 
Spanish chorizo, cut into 
¼-inch slices
1 large onion, chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 pounds sweet potatoes, 
peeled and cut into  
1-inch cubes
1 pound Yukon Gold or white 
potatoes (not russets), 
peeled and cut into  
1-inch cubes
6 cups chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 small bunch kale, stemmed 
and roughly chopped81 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WEEKDAY WINLentil and Spinach Stew with Shrimp
GLUTEN-FREE  A hearty lentil stew is brightened by plump shrimp and vibrant spinach 
added at the last minute. Use good-quality chicken broth for best results, and leave out 
the shrimp if you must—it’s still a great soup, especially served with crusty bread.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil, onion, carrots, celery, and garlic. 
Cook for 3 minutes, or until the onion is beginning to turn 
translucent. 
3. Add the cumin and turmeric and stir. Add the broth, lentils, 
and bay leaf. Season with salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 20 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes and release any remaining steam.
6. Select Sauté. Add the shrimp and spinach to the pot and 
stir. Once the soup starts boiling, turn the heat off. Let it 
sit for a few minutes until the shrimp are opaque.
7. Remove and discard the bay leaf. Add the lemon juice. 
Serve in bowls.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Soup setting can be used for this recipe. Select 
Soup and set the timer to 20 minutes. 
Per Serving  Calories: 675; Total Carbohydrates: 96g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 14g; Protein: 25g; Sodium: 2096mgSERVES 4
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 small onion, chopped
2 carrots, peeled and chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
4 garlic cloves, minced
½ teaspoon ground cumin
¼ teaspoon ground turmeric
3 cups chicken broth  
(try the recipe on page 140)
1 cup dried green lentils, 
rinsed and drained
1 bay leaf
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
16 uncooked large shrimp, 
peeled and deveined
5 ounces fresh spinach, 
roughly chopped
Juice of ½ lemon82 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYBeef Stew with Mushrooms and Barley
This hearty beef stew is a complete meal, thanks to a dose of fresh mushrooms and 
wholesome barley. Rather than cook on the stove for hours, this flavorful dish is ready 
in an hour and only requires one pot. Add more liquid at the end if the stew is too  
thick for your liking.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 25 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
Add the oil to the pot.
2. Season the beef with salt and pepper and coat in the flour. 
Shake off the excess.
3. Once hot, add half of the beef and let it sit in the pot to 
brown for about 3 minutes. Turn and brown the other side. 
Remove and repeat with the rest of the beef. Set aside.
4. Add the onion to the pot, stir, and cook for 4 minutes 
until lightly browned. Add the mushrooms and stir. Add 
the wine and deglaze the pot by scraping the bottom to 
remove all of the brown bits.
5. Add the carrots, celery, garlic, rosemary, thyme, bay leaf, 
broth, water, barley, and beef. Season with salt and pepper. 
Stir and secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook on high pressure for 25 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Serve in 
bowls or on soup plates.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  If you don’t have any red wine, use white wine or 
vermouth to deglaze the pan—but red wine provides the best ﬂavor.
Per Serving  Calories: 521; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 54g; Sodium: 534mgSERVES 6
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 pounds stewing beef (chuck, 
round, or rump roast), 
trimmed of fat and cut into 
1-inch cubes 
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup all-purpose ﬂour
1 onion, diced
8 ounces mushrooms, chopped
½ cup dry red wine
2 carrots, peeled and chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 small fresh rosemary sprig
3 fresh thyme sprigs
1 bay leaf
3 cups beef broth
1 cup water
1 cup pearl barley83 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYTuscan Chicken Stew
GLUTEN-FREE  With little more to do than throw the ingredients in the pressure cooker 
and retrieve the finished product 20 minutes later, this is as simple as stew gets. It’s more 
substantial than your average soup, brightly flavored, and begging to be sopped up with 
crusty bread. Customize it as you see fit. Don’t like beans? Leave them out. Want more 
broth? Pour more in there.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil. Add the onion, celery, and carrots 
and stir. Cook for 5 minutes until the onion is translucent. 
Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute more.
3. Add the potatoes, tomatoes with juice, beans, broth, 
chicken, oregano, and red pepper flakes. Season with salt 
and pepper and mix gently.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take 10 to 15 minutes.
6. Remove the chicken and pull the meat off the bones. 
Return the meat to the pot and add the vinegar and 
parsley. T aste for seasoning and serve.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Soup setting can be used for this recipe.  
Select Soup and set the timer to 10 minutes. Proceed with the  
recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 352; Total Carbohydrates: 42g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 12g; Protein: 23g; Sodium: 457mgSERVES 4 TO 5 
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 onion, chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
2 carrots, peeled and chopped
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 pound small red or white 
potatoes, halved
1 (14.5-ounce) can chopped  
or crushed tomatoes  
with juice
1 (15-ounce) can red kidney 
beans, rinsed and drained
1 cup chicken broth
6 bone-in, skin-on chicken 
thighs and/ or drumsticks
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Large pinch red pepper ﬂakes
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons chopped fresh 
parsley leaves84 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTLightning-Fast Veggie Chili
VEGETARIAN  Meaty chilies need some time to stew and break down, but a meat-free, 
bean-based chili can be ready in 20 minutes thanks to canned beans. Include the 
jalapeño and an extra teaspoon of chili powder if you like spice. Serve with tortilla  
chips or cornbread.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the oil. Add the garlic, scallions (reserving  
2 tablespoons of greens), bell pepper, and jalapeño (if using). 
Stir and sauté for 3 minutes, until the veggies begin to soften.
3. Add the chili powder, cumin, salt, and pepper. Stir and 
cook for 1 minute until fragrant. 
4. Add the black beans, pinto or kidney beans, tomatoes with 
juice, corn, and beer or water. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the lid and stir.
7. If a thicker chili is desired, select Sauté and cook on high 
heat for 3 to 5 minutes. Season as desired.
8. Serve in bowls with a dollop of sour cream (if using), 
a sprinkle of the reserved chopped green scallions, and 
tortilla chips.
VARIATION TIP:  Switch out the beans to your liking—white beans and 
even chickpeas work.
Per Serving  Calories: 410; Total Carbohydrates: 67g; Saturated Fat: 1g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 20g; Protein: 21g; Sodium: 659mgSERVES 4
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
12 scallions, whites and  
greens chopped, with  
2 tablespoons chopped 
greens reserved
1 bell pepper, diced
1 jalapeño, ﬁnely diced 
(optional)
2 teaspoons chili powder
1 teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
2 (15-ounce) cans black beans, 
rinsed and drained
1 (15-ounce) can pinto or 
kidney beans, rinsed  
and drained
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes with juice, with 
or without chiles
1 cup frozen corn
½ cup beer (preferably lager) 
or water
Sour cream, for serving 
(optional)
T ortilla chips, for serving85 SOUPS , STEWS , AND  CHILIES  
FAMILY-FRIENDLYChorizo Chili
GLUTEN-FREE  A two-part cook time ensures perfectly cooked pinto beans. Fresh Mexican 
chorizo—not to be confused with smoked Spanish chorizo—is typically found in the 
supermarket meat section or at Mexican markets. Serve with toppings like shredded 
cheese, sour cream, and scallions.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 23 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
5 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add 1 tablespoon of oil, the beans, and water to the Instant 
Pot. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 13 minutes.
2. When cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a  
natural release.
3. Drain the beans, reserving 2 cups of cooking liquid. Rinse 
and dry the pot.
4. Select Sauté on high heat and add the remaining 1 table-
spoon of oil. Add the chorizo and beef and break up with 
a wooden spoon or spatula. Cook until mostly browned, 
about 4 minutes, and add the onion. Stir and cook for  
2 minutes more.
5. Add the bell pepper, jalapeño, and garlic. Stir and cook 
for 2 minutes. Add the cocoa, cumin, chili powder, and 
oregano and stir. Cook for 1 minute.
6. Add the diced tomatoes with juice, beans, and reserved 
cooking liquid. Stir and season with salt and pepper. 
Secure the lid.
7. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
8. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a natural 
release. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you didn’t soak your beans, simply add 15 minutes 
to the cook time of the beans and proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 374; Total Carbohydrates: 38g; Saturated Fat: 3g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 33g; Sodium: 246mgSERVES 8
2 tablespoons canola oil, 
divided
2 cups dried pinto beans, 
rinsed, picked over  
(discard any bad beans), 
and soaked overnight
6 cups water
8 ounces Mexican chorizo, 
without casing
12 ounces ground beef
1 large onion, chopped
1 large red bell pepper, 
chopped
1 large jalapeño, seeded  
and minced
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon unsweetened 
cocoa powder
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1½ teaspoons chili powder
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes with juice
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepperSEAFOOD   AND  POULTRYCHAPTER SIX
SEAFOOD  
AND POULTRY
Mussels with Shallots  
and White Wine  88
Crab Legs with Lemon  
and Garlic Butter Sauce  89
Low -Country Boil  90
Shrimp Scampi  91
Steamed Fish and 
Veggies  92
Green Chicken 
Enchiladas  93
Chicken Pot Pie  94
Greek -Style Chicken  
with Potatoes and Peas  96
Classic Chicken Wings  97Chicken and Dumplings  98
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto  100
Quick Chicken Tikka 
Masala  101
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice  102
“Roasted” Chicken 
with T omatoes and 
Mushrooms  103
Stuffed Turkey Breast  104
One -Pot Penne and  
Turkey Meatballs  106
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions  10788 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANTMussels with Shallots and White Wine
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Mussels cook effortlessly to perfection in a bath of white 
wine, shallots, garlic, and lemon in just three minutes. T op with fresh parsley and serve 
with crusty bread and more wine (of course).
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Clean the mussels using a dry brush and cold water. 
De-beard them as needed by grasping the thin membrane 
on the back of each mussel and pulling it off. Discard any 
mussels that don’t close after being tapped a few times 
against another mussel.
2. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté. 
3. Once hot, add the oil, shallots, and garlic. Cook, stirring, 
for 2 minutes. 
4. Add the mussels, wine, broth or water, and red pepper 
flakes (if using). 
5. Secure the top and select Manual. Cook at low pressure  
for 3 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. T op with 
the lemon juice and fresh parsley. Serve with the broth.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  T o make this recipe Paleo, replace the wine with 
more broth.
Per Serving  Calories: 262; Total Carbohydrates: 11g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 28g; Sodium: 747mgSERVES 4 
2 pounds fresh mussels
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
3 large shallots, minced
2 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup dry white wine
½ cup chicken broth or water
Pinch red pepper ﬂakes 
(optional)
Juice of ½ lemon
Fresh parsley or dill, chopped, 
for garnish89 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
VIRTUALLY INSTANTCrab Legs with Lemon and Garlic Butter Sauce
GLUTEN-FREE  Perfectly steamed crab legs are just a few minutes away. Using the  
Instant Pot ensures even, fast cooking, and the butter is flavored with garlic and lemon 
for a bright sauce. Serve alongside crusty bread, a salad, and corn on the cob for a 
seaside feast.
PREP: 3 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 15 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water and placing  
a steamer basket on top.
2. Add the crab legs and secure the lid.
3. Select Steam and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.  
If using frozen crab, cook for 4 minutes.
4. While the crab is steaming, heat the oil over medium heat 
in a small saucepan. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, for  
1 minute. Don’t let the garlic burn.
5. Add the butter and melt. Stir and turn off the heat. Add a 
big squeeze of lemon.
6. Once the pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release.
7. Serve the crab legs on a platter with the butter dipping 
sauce on the side.
COOKING TIP:  A metal steamer basket works best for this and some 
other recipes in this book. Before purchasing one, make sure it ﬁts 
in the pot.
Per Serving  Calories: 346; Total Carbohydrates: 2g; Saturated Fat: 7g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 44g; Sodium: 2510mgSERVES 4 
1 cup water
2 pounds fresh or frozen  
crab legs
1 teaspoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 large garlic clove, minced
4 tablespoons salted butter
1 lemon, halved90 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINLow-Country Boil
GLUTEN-FREE  If you’ve never had a low-country boil, then you’ve been missing out. The 
southern coastal dish incorporates potatoes, sausage, corn on the cob, and shellfish in 
such a way that they’re all done cooking at the same time. It’s traditionally drained and 
all dumped out on a table lined with newspaper for everyone to feast on.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 9 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the water, seasoning packet, salt, and lemon to the 
Instant Pot. Add the potatoes and sausage and secure  
the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Add the 
corn and secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 minute.
5. When cooking is complete, use a quick release. Add the 
shrimp and secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 minute.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release.
8. Drain and season with salt as needed. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you can’t ﬁnd boil-in-bag seafood seasoning 
packets, then add ½ to 1 teaspoon seafood seasoning per cup  
of water.
Per Serving  Calories: 640; Total Carbohydrates: 43g; Saturated Fat: 7g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 68g; Sodium: 4501mgSERVES 4 TO 5 
8 cups water
1 (3-ounce) boil-in-bag 
seafood seasoning packet
1½ tablespoons kosher salt, 
plus more for seasoning
1 lemon, halved
1½ pounds baby red new 
potatoes
1 pound mild or hot smoked 
sausage (like kielbasa),  
cut into 3 or 4 pieces each
3 ears corn, shucked,  
and halved
2 pounds uncooked medium 
shrimp, unpeeled 91 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
VIRTUALLY INSTANTShrimp Scampi
GLUTEN-FREE  For shrimp lovers, a little garlic, white wine, and butter are all that’s 
needed to enjoy the shellfish. Shrimp scampi is brilliant in its simplicity, and is lovely 
served with its sauce over pasta or another grain. It also makes a nice appetizer.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 MINUTE • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the butter. Once the butter has melted,  
add the garlic and cook, stirring, for 1 minute. Add the 
wine and cook for 2 minutes, or until the smell of alcohol 
goes away.
3. Add the broth and the shrimp, and season with salt and 
pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 minute.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Remove the 
shrimp. Select Sauté on high heat and cook for 2 minutes 
more to reduce the sauce.
6. Add the lemon juice and parsley and stir. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  High-quality frozen shrimp will also work—just add  
1 minute to the pressure cooking time.
Per Serving  Calories: 162; Total Carbohydrates: 3g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 22g; Sodium: 318mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons butter
3 large garlic cloves, minced
¼ cup dry white wine
½ cup chicken broth
1 pound uncooked large shrimp, 
shelled and deveined
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Juice of ½ lemon
1 heaping teaspoon chopped 
fresh parsley92 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINSteamed Fish and Veggies
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Because most fish is so easy to overcook, it isn’t always 
the best thing to prepare in a pressure cooker. However, it is possible to make great fish 
with your Instant Pot. This healthy dish emulates steaming fish in a packet with the 
vegetables and aromatics adding depth.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 25 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil. Add the onion and cook for  
2 minutes until it is beginning to turn translucent. Add  
the garlic and cook, stirring, for 1 minute more.
3. Add the tomatoes and zucchini and stir, cooking for  
1 minute until some juice has released. Add the fish on top, 
along with the broth, lemon, thyme, and saffron (if using), 
and season with salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at low pressure for 5 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Serve the 
vegetables topped with the fish and a slice of lemon.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If using frozen ﬁsh, add 2 minutes to the pressure-
cook time.
Per Serving  Calories: 406; Total Carbohydrates: 24g; Saturated Fat: 3g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7; Protein: 43g; Sodium: 213mgSERVES 4
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 small onion, cut into  
⅛-inch slices
3 garlic cloves, minced
16 cherry tomatoes, halved
1 cup chopped zucchini or 
summer squash
4 small white ﬁsh ﬁllets  
(such as cod)
¼ cup vegetable, chicken,  
or ﬁsh broth
1 lemon, cut into ¼-inch rounds
3 fresh thyme sprigs
Small pinch saffron (optional)
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper93 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYGreen Chicken Enchiladas
GLUTEN-FREE  This is Mexican comfort food at its best—tender chicken rolled up inside 
tortillas, napped with a mild green enchilada sauce, and topped with melted cheese. It’s 
an easy recipe you’ll be asked to make time and time again.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Season the chicken with salt and pepper and place it in  
the Instant Pot, along with the broth, garlic, and onion. 
Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
3. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
4. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
Remove the chicken, shred it, and combine in a large bowl 
with ½ cup of enchilada sauce and the sour cream. Season 
with salt and pepper.
5. Spread another ½ cup of enchilada sauce into a  
9-by-13-inch baking dish. Warm the tortillas slightly in 
the oven, on the stove, or in the microwave to make them 
pliable. Fill each with 2 to 3 tablespoons of the chicken 
mixture and a sprinkle of cheese. Roll into cigar shapes  
and place, side -by-side and seam -side down, into the 
baking dish.
6. T op with the remaining sauce and cheese. Cover with foil.
7. Bake for 15 minutes. Remove the foil and bake for 5 to  
10 minutes more, until the cheese is melted. Serve hot.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The chicken can also be cooked using the Slow 
Cook setting. Combine the chicken, ½ cup enchilada sauce, 1½ cups 
broth, garlic, onion, and sour cream in the pot. Slow Cook for 6 to  
8 hours and proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 669; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 17g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 51g; Sodium: 1600mgSERVES 4 
3 medium boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup chicken broth or water
2 garlic cloves, minced
½ onion, sliced
2 (10-ounce) cans green 
enchilada sauce, divided
½ cup sour cream, plus more 
for serving
10 to 12 corn tortillas
2 cups Monterey Jack cheese94 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYChicken Pot Pie
Squares of oven-browned, store-bought puff pastry replace the traditional pot pie crust, 
topping this classic before serving. It’s a surprisingly easy meal that’s fit for company.
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Thaw the puff pastry sheet on the counter for 30 minutes.
2. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
3. Select Sauté on the Instant Pot and add the oil.
4. Add the onion, carrots, and celery. Stir and cook for  
3 minutes, until the onion starts to turn translucent. Add 
the potatoes, chicken, broth, and salt. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
6. Meanwhile, once the pastry sheet is pliable but still cold, 
lay it out on a baking sheet and cut into 4 even squares or 
rectangles. Bake for 15 minutes.
7. Once pressure cooking is complete, use a quick release. 
Remove the chicken and, once cool enough to handle,  
pull off the meat and discard the skin and bones. Cut the 
meat into cubes. 
8. Select Sauté on the pot.SERVES 4 TO 5
1 frozen puff pastry sheet
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 small onion, chopped
2 medium carrots, peeled and 
chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
2 medium potatoes, cut into 
¾-inch cubes
3 medium bone-in, skin-on 
chicken breasts
1½ cups chicken broth
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour
2 tablespoons cold butter
½ cup heavy cream or  
whole milk
1 cup frozen peas
Freshly ground black pepper95 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  9. In a small bowl, combine the flour and butter into a smooth paste. Add 
the paste to the simmering broth along with the cream or milk and peas. 
Cook, stirring, until the paste has dissolved, 3 to 5 minutes. Add the 
chicken and season with salt and pepper.
10. T o serve, spoon the stew into bowls and top with the puff pastry.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you’re using chicken broth that’s salty, you may need to decrease 
the amount of salt. I recommend always buying low-salt broth, or making it from 
scratch at home (try the recipe on page 140).
Per Serving  Calories: 738; Total Carbohydrates: 58g; Saturated Fat: 14g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 7g; Protein: 30g; Sodium: 1459mg96 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYGreek-Style Chicken with Potatoes and Peas
GLUTEN-FREE  This quick, crispy-skinned chicken is flavored with garlic, olive oil, spices, 
and lemon. Potatoes cook right along with the chicken, and peas and olives are added 
at the last minute, making it a complete meal.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Season the chicken with salt and pepper. In a large bowl, 
coat the chicken with 2 tablespoons of olive oil, the garlic, 
rosemary, oregano, and red pepper flakes. Marinate for at 
least 30 minutes in the refrigerator. 
2. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté on high heat. 
3. When hot, add the remaining 2 tablespoons of olive oil 
and coat the bottom of the pot. Add the chicken, skin -side 
down (reserving any marinade), and cook without moving 
for about 5 minutes, until the skin is crispy. Remove the 
chicken and select Cancel.
4. Add the potatoes and broth. Place the chicken on top, 
skin -side up, and pour the reserved marinade on top. 
Season with salt and pepper and secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes and then release any remaining pressure. 
7. Remove the chicken. Stir in the peas and cook until warmed.
8. Serve the potatoes and peas topped with the chicken. Just 
before serving, add a squeeze of lemon, a drizzle of olive 
oil, and the olives.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fresh peas also work for this recipe, and a sprinkle of 
chopped fresh mint adds a new layer of ﬂavor.
Per Serving  Calories: 388; Total Carbohydrates: 26g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 25g; Sodium: 794mgSERVES 4 
4 small or 3 large bone-in, 
skin-on chicken breasts
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided, plus extra 
for garnish
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 fresh rosemary sprig, 
chopped (leaves only)
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Pinch red pepper ﬂakes
1 pound large ﬁngerling 
potatoes, washed and 
pricked with a knife
2 cups chicken broth
1 cup frozen peas
1 lemon 
½ cup olives97 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
FAMILY-FRIENDLYClassic Chicken Wings
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  You’ll wow everyone on the next game day when you 
whip up these wings. The pressure cooker quickly cooks the chicken wings until tender 
before they’re fried or broiled, depending on your preference. Use your favorite sauce, 
such as barbecue, buffalo, or teriyaki.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 40 MINUTES (IF BROILING) OR 1 HOUR, 40 MINUTES  
(IF FRYING) • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the chicken wings and water to the Instant Pot and 
season with salt. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes and then release any remaining pressure. 
Remove the wings to a cooling rack to drain.
4. T o broil the wings: Preheat the oven to broil. In a large 
bowl, toss the wings in the sauce. Place on a baking sheet 
and broil for about 5 minutes, until crispy. Flip the wings 
and repeat.
5. T o fry the wings: Place the cooling rack with the wings on 
a baking sheet and refrigerate for 1 hour.
6. In a large pot or Dutch oven, heat the oil to 385°F (use a 
cooking thermometer). 
7. Once hot, carefully lower 7 or 8 wings into the oil and fry 
for 3 minutes until crispy. Remove and place back on the 
rack. Repeat with the remaining wings.
8. T oss the wings in the sauce and serve immediately.
COOKING TIP:  Refrigerating the wings before frying ensures that they 
are dry, making them easier to fry.
Per Serving  Calories: 746; Total Carbohydrates: 8g; Saturated Fat: 7g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 98g; Sodium: 2091mgSERVES 4 TO 5
3 pounds chicken wings
1 cup water
Kosher salt
2 cups wing sauce
8 to 10 cups vegetable oil 
(depending on the size of 
your pot), if frying98 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYChicken and Dumplings
This Southern classic is stick-to-your-ribs food. The combination of flavorful chicken, 
creamy broth, and tender dumplings is comforting and filling. Don’t be scared to make 
your own dumplings—they’re easier than you think! Be careful not to overwork the 
dough, since it will quickly become tough. Add finely chopped herbs to your dumplings, 
if you have them, for a bit of freshness.
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 11 MINUTES • TOTAL: 55 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
T o make the chicken and broth
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
Add the butter.
2. Season the chicken with salt and pepper and dredge in the 
flour, shaking off the excess. Once the butter is sizzling and 
the pot is hot, add half of the chicken in one layer. Brown 
on one side for 3 or 4 minutes, without moving, and flip 
and brown on the other side. Remove and repeat with the 
remaining chicken. Set aside.
3. Add the celery, carrots, and onions to the pot. Sauté for  
3 minutes, scraping the bottom of the pot. Add the chicken 
and broth. Season with salt and pepper. Secure the lid. 
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 11 minutes.
T o make the dumplings
1. While the chicken is cooking, make the dumplings. Mix 
together the flour, cornmeal, baking powder, salt, and 
pepper in a medium bowl. Add the milk or half -and-half 
and melted butter, and stir just until incorporated (don’t 
over -mix). Set aside.
2. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Remove  
the chicken and set aside.SERVES 8 
For the chicken and broth
4 tablespoons butter
8 medium bone-in, skin-on 
chicken thighs
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
½ cup all-purpose ﬂour
4 celery stalks, chopped
3 carrots, peeled and chopped
2 onions, chopped
3½ cups chicken broth, 
preferably homemade (try 
the recipe on page 140)
½ cup whole milk or  
half-and-half
2 tablespoons cornstarch
For the dumplings
1¾ cups all-purpose ﬂour
¼ cup cornmeal
1 tablespoon baking powder
½ teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 cup whole milk or  
half-and-half
3 tablespoons melted butter99 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  3. Add the milk to the broth in the pot, mix, and season with salt and pepper. 
In a small bowl, combine ½ cup of hot broth with the cornstarch and 
whisk well to combine. Add back to the pot and stir.
4. Select Sauté. Once simmering, scoop heaping tablespoons of the dumpling 
mixture and drop them into the pot. T ry to keep them separated and 
mostly submerged, without disturbing them too much.
5. Reduce Sauté heat to low and cook for 12 to 15 minutes, loosely covered 
with the top without locking it, until the dumplings have doubled in size. 
6. Meanwhile, bone the chicken, remove and discard the skin, and shred the 
meat. Add back to the pot and serve in bowls.
COOKING TIP:  Even though you end up removing the skin, dredging the chicken and 
browning it ﬁrst gives the saucy part of this dish more ﬂavor and body.
INSTANT POT TIP:  Loosely covering the mixture while the dumplings cook helps steam 
them through, making sure they’re fully cooked and puffy. It’s important not to cover 
too securely or lock the lid in place, as this will lead to a buildup in pressure.
Per Serving  Calories: 543; Total Carbohydrates: 40g; Saturated Fat: 14g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 2g; Protein: 25g; Sodium: 688mg100 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYMushroom and Chicken Sausage Risotto
GLUTEN-FREE  The pressure cooker is a lifesaver when it comes to this typically labor-
intensive dish. Finally you can serve perfectly cooked, creamy risotto to guests without 
missing the party! 
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 6 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Select Sauté on high heat. Add the oil.
2. Once hot, add the sausage and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes, 
until browned. Remove the sausage.
3. Reduce the heat to medium. Melt the butter, then add the 
mushrooms and onion. Cook, stirring, for 6 minutes until 
the onion is translucent and the mushrooms are cooked. 
Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute more. Add the thyme 
and season with salt and pepper.
4. Add the soy sauce and wine. Cook, scraping up any brown 
bits off the bottom of the pot, for about 3 minutes, or until 
the alcohol smell has gone.
5. Add the broth and rice and stir. Secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 6 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Stir. If the 
risotto is too soupy, select Sauté and cook, uncovered, for a 
few minutes. Add the sausage and Parmesan.
8. Serve topped with Parmesan and a few thyme leaves.
VARIATION TIP:  Make this dish vegetarian by simply leaving out the 
sausage and using vegetable broth.
Per Serving  Calories: 415; Total Carbohydrates: 50g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 16g; Sodium: 1030mgSERVES 5 TO 6 
2 tablespoons canola oil
10 to 12 ounces fully cooked 
chicken sausage, cut into 
¼-inch slices
3 tablespoons butter
1 pound mushrooms (cremini, 
shiitake, oyster, or a mix), 
thinly sliced
1 medium yellow onion, 
chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
3 thyme sprigs, leaves only, 
plus more leaves for garnish
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon soy sauce
½ cup dry white wine or  
red wine
4 cups good-quality chicken 
broth, preferably 
homemade (try the recipe 
on page 140)
2 cups Arborio or Calrose rice
¼ cup ﬁnely grated Parmesan 
cheese, plus more for 
serving101 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
WEEKDAY WINQuick Chicken Tikka Masala
GLUTEN-FREE  Tikka masala is a creamy Indian dish that is full of spice. This version 
incorporates much of the flavor of the slow-cooked classic, yet has a short cooking time. 
Served with rice or naan and a salad, it makes a heck of a meal.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté on high heat. Add 
the butter.
2. When the butter sizzles, add the onion, garlic, and ginger 
and stir. Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring, until the onion 
is translucent.
3. Select Cancel and add the cumin, paprika, turmeric, and 
cayenne and stir, scraping the bottom. Add the sugar and 
tomatoes with juice, stir, then add the chicken and broth. 
Nestle the chicken in the mixture and season with salt and 
pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook on high heat for 7 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the chicken and chop.
6. Select Sauté and simmer for 4 to 5 minutes until the liquid 
is reduced. While simmering, add the cream and return 
the chicken to the pot.
7. Add the lemon juice and stir. Season as needed. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  If you’re not into spicy food, decrease the amounts of 
ginger and paprika and exclude the cayenne. If you like heat, add 
cayenne until your desired level is reached.
Per Serving  Calories: 405; Total Carbohydrates: 13g; Saturated Fat: 8g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 43g; Sodium: 521mgSERVES 4
2 tablespoons butter
1 small onion, chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, peeled 
and grated
2 teaspoons ground cumin
2 teaspoons paprika
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
Big pinch cayenne 
1 tablespoon sugar
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced or 
crushed tomatoes with juice
4 medium boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts
½ cup chicken broth
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
¼ cup heavy cream
Juice of 1 lemon102 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINSpiced Coconut Chicken and Rice
GLUTEN-FREE  This punched-up chicken-and-rice dish is inspired by mulligatawny soup, 
with curry spices, creamy coconut milk, bright ginger, and fresh lime juice. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 17 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK, NATURAL
1. Select Sauté on high heat on the Instant Pot and add the oil. 
2. Once hot, add the onion and ginger and sauté for 2 minutes. 
Add the garlic, curry powder, and turmeric and cook, 
stirring, for 1 minute.
3. Add the chicken and season with salt and pepper. Add the 
coconut milk and water. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook for 13 minutes on high pressure. 
5. When cooking is complete, use a quick release. T ransfer 
the chicken to a platter. 
6. Add the rice, chopped cilantro stems, and sugar and  
secure the lid. Select Manual and cook on high pressure  
for 4 minutes.
7. Meanwhile, remove the skin and bones from the chicken 
and discard. 
8. When the rice is cooked, select Cancel and let naturally 
release for 10 minutes. Release any remaining steam.
9. Add the chicken back to the pot and add the juice of half 
the lime. Stir and season with salt and pepper. Serve in 
bowls topped with cilantro leaves and lime wedges.
VARIATION TIP:  T o boost the nutritional value, use brown rice, adding 
an extra ¼ cup water and cooking the rice for 22 minutes on high 
pressure with a 10-minute natural release.
Per Serving  Calories: 835; Total Carbohydrates: 60g; Saturated Fat: 31g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 31g; Sodium: 169mgSERVES 4 TO 5 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 onion, cut into ¼-inch slices
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, peeled 
and cut into ¼-inch slices
3 medium garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon curry powder
1 teaspoon ground turmeric
2 pounds bone-in, skin-on 
chicken thighs
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 (14-ounce) can light  
coconut milk
½ cup water
1⅓ cups jasmine rice, rinsed
2 tablespoons cilantro leaves 
plus stems, stems and 
leaves divided
1½ teaspoons sugar
1 lime, halved (one half cut 
into wedges, for serving)103 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
WEEKDAY WIN“Roasted” Chicken with Tomatoes and Mushrooms
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Salty bacon, earthy mushrooms, red wine, and tomatoes 
make for a juicy chicken dish reminiscent of coq au vin. You can omit the wine, 
replacing it with chicken broth—but I, for one, wouldn’t skip it. Serve with mashed 
potatoes or polenta.
PREP: 17 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Select Sauté on high heat on the Instant Pot. 
2. Once hot, add the bacon. Cook until lightly crisp, flipping 
as needed, and drain on a paper towel.
3. Season the chicken with salt and pepper. Turn the heat 
to high and add the olive oil. Add the chicken, skin -side 
down, and cook for 5 minutes, or until browned. T ransfer 
to a plate.
4. Add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring, for 2 minutes. 
Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring, for 3 minutes more.
5. Add the wine and scrape the bottom of the pan to deglaze. 
Cook for 3 to 5 minutes, until the smell of alcohol is gone. 
Stir in the tomatoes with juice, bay leaf, and bacon. Return 
the chicken to the pot, with the dark meat on the bottom 
and breasts on the top, skin -side up. Secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Remove the 
bay leaf and serve.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Poultry setting can be used for this recipe 
instead of the Manual setting. Adjust the timer to 10 minutes and 
proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 738; Total Carbohydrates: 12g; Saturated Fat: 16g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 68g; Sodium: 618mgSERVES 4
3 bacon slices, cut into  
½-inch pieces
1 (3- to 4-pound) chicken, cut 
into 8 pieces
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 onion, cut into ⅛-inch slices
4 garlic cloves, minced
8 ounces cremini mushrooms, 
chopped
¾ cup dry red wine
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced or 
crushed tomatoes with juice
1 bay leaf104 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYStuffed Turkey Breast
Roasting a whole turkey can be tough to get right, and it makes enough food for a big 
crowd. If you’re feeding fewer than eight people and want to free up your oven for side 
dishes, try a turkey breast filled with savory bread stuffing instead. If you end up with 
extra stuffing, put it in a dish and bake it to serve on the side. And you don’t have to 
wait for Thanksgiving to make this dish—it’s easy enough to make any time of the year.
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 25 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
5 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add 3 tablespoons of butter. Once the butter 
is melted, add the onion and celery. Stir and cook 
for 3 minutes until the onion is translucent. Add the 
mushrooms and garlic. Stir and cook for 3 minutes more, 
or until the mushrooms are soft. Select Cancel.
3. T ransfer the vegetables and butter to a large bowl. Add the 
sage, parsley, salt, pepper, and breadcrumbs and mix. Add 
the broth, a bit at a time, and mix until you get a moist but 
crumbly texture, using ¾ to 1 cup of broth.
4. Lay the turkey breast top -side down on your work surface. 
If it isn’t an even thickness, pound the thick parts until it’s 
mostly even. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Spread the 
stuffing mixture on the breast, making it about as thick 
as the turkey breast itself, and leaving at least 1 inch on 
each side. Roll up tightly (but not so tight that the stuffing 
squeezes out) and secure with kitchen twine. Season the 
outside of the breast with salt and pepper.
5. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
6. Once hot, add the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter.  
Once melted, brown the stuffed turkey on all sides, about 
3 minutes per side. Finish with it lying seam -side down in 
the pot. Add the remaining 2 cups of chicken broth and 
secure the lid.SERVES 6 TO 8
5 tablespoons butter, divided
1 large onion, chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
¾ cup chopped mushrooms
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons chopped  
fresh sage
1 heaping tablespoon chopped 
fresh parsley
¾ teaspoon kosher salt,  
plus more for seasoning
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper, plus more  
for seasoning
2 cups plain breadcrumbs
3 cups chicken broth, divided
1 (2- to 3-pound) boneless, 
skinless turkey breast, 
butterﬂied to an even 
thickness105 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  7. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 25 minutes.
8. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will take 15 to  
20 minutes. Remove the turkey and let it rest, tented with foil.
9. Select Sauté on high heat. Reduce the cooking liquid for 10 to 15 minutes 
until concentrated. 
10. Remove the kitchen twine from the turkey and spoon the gravy over  
the top. Slice and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  When buying the turkey breast, have the butcher butterﬂy it  
for you to save time and effort. Just make sure it ﬁts in your cooker ﬁrst!
Per Serving  Calories: 421; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 7g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 4g; Protein: 34g; Sodium: 2431mg106 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYOne-Pot Penne and Turkey Meatballs
This one-pot meal with lean but satisfying turkey meatballs will please the whole family. 
The meatballs, pasta, and sauce all cook in the Instant Pot for ease and great flavor. This 
recipe is generous with meatballs and light on the pasta for a more balanced diet.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 25 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. In a medium bowl, combine the turkey, breadcrumbs, 
Parmesan, onion, garlic, basil, egg, salt, and pepper. Mix well.
2. Form 1½ -inch meatballs and place on a plate.
3. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat.
4. Once hot, coat the bottom of the pot with the oil. Add the 
meatballs, one at a time, in close proximity and, if possible, 
in one layer. Cook for 1 minute.
5. Add the tomatoes with juice, tomato purée or sauce, water, 
and pasta. Carefully push the pasta down so that it’s mostly 
submerged in the sauce. 
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and let it sit for 1 
minute. Then use a quick release. 
8. T est the pasta. If it isn’t cooked enough, select Sauté and 
simmer on high until the desired texture is reached.
9. Serve topped with more Parmesan and basil.
COOKING TIP:  For an extra-quick meal, form your meatballs a few 
hours in advance and store them in the refrigerator. Pull them out  
10 minutes before cook time and proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 630; Total Carbohydrates: 66g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 35g; Sodium: 1670mgSERVES 4
1 pound lean ground turkey
½ cup plain or panko 
breadcrumbs
3 tablespoons grated 
Parmesan cheese, plus 
extra for garnish
¼ yellow onion, ﬁnely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon ﬁnely chopped 
fresh basil, plus more  
for garnish
1 egg, beaten
½ teaspoon kosher salt
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes with juice
1 (14- to 15-ounce) can tomato 
purée or sauce
½ cup water
8 ounces uncooked  
penne pasta 107 SEAFOOD  AND  POULTRY  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYDuck with Mushrooms and Onions
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Duck meat is darker, richer, and juicier than chicken. 
First, duck legs are seared to create a crispy skin and release some of the excess fat.  
Then they are cooked until tender with mushrooms, onions, and wine. Make this dish 
for a date—he or she will definitely be impressed.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
Add the oil.
2. Dry the duck well and season with salt and pepper. Place 
skin -side down in the pot and cook for about 5 minutes,  
or until nicely browned. Remove.
3. Turn the heat down to medium. Carefully discard all but 
2 tablespoons of the fat and oil in the pot. Add the onions 
and sauté until lightly browned, about 3 minutes. Add the 
mushrooms and garlic. Cook, stirring, for 3 minutes more.
4. Add the wine and scrape up any brown bits off the bottom 
of the pot, cooking for 1 minute. Add the broth and duck. 
Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 20 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Serve the 
duck with the onions and mushrooms and spoon over 
some of the cooking liquid.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  T o make this dish more Paleo-friendly, use avocado 
oil instead of canola oil.
Per Serving  Calories: 269; Total Carbohydrates: 9g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 26g; Sodium: 318mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons canola oil
4 duck legs
Kosher salt
Freshly ground pepper
8 ounces small cipollini or 
pearl onions
8 ounces sliced mushrooms
4 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup dry red wine
1 cup chicken brothBEEF , LAMB ,  AND  PORKCHAPTER SEVEN
BEEF, LAMB,  
AND PORK
Sunday Pot Roast  110
Barbecue Beef Brisket  111
One -Pot Pasta 
Bolognese  112
Five -Spice Boneless  
Beef Ribs  113
Corned Beef  114
Oxtail Ragu  115
Lamb Curry  116
Lamb and Feta  
Meatballs with T omato 
and Olive Sauce  117Baby Back Ribs  118
Pulled Pork  119
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens  120
T eriyaki Pork Loin  121
Pork Fried Rice  122
Easy Hawaiian -Style 
Pork  124
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions  125110 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYSunday Pot Roast
GLUTEN-FREE  This crowd-pleasing roast is quick enough to cook on a weeknight. The 
pressure cooker transforms the meat into a fork-tender roast in record time. Potatoes, 
parsnips, and carrots are added later to keep them from turning mushy.
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 10 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 2 HOURS • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK, NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté on high heat.  
Add the oil.
2. Season the roast with salt and pepper. Once the pot is 
hot, brown the roast on all sides, 3 to 4 minutes per side. 
T ransfer the meat to a plate.
3. Add the onion and cook for 3 to 5 minutes until starting to 
brown. Add the garlic, thyme, bay leaf, and broth. Scrape 
the bottom of the pot to deglaze the pan. Return the meat 
to the pot and secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 hour.
5. When cooking is complete, use a quick release. Add the 
potatoes, carrots, and parsnips, submerging them in the 
cooking liquid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high heat for 10 minutes.
7. When cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes and then release any remaining steam.
8. The potatoes should be fork -tender and the meat should 
be falling apart. Serve topped with the juice.
INSTANT POT TIP:  The Meat/Stew function can be used for the ﬁrst 
part of this recipe. Adjust the function’s cook time to 1 hour.
Per Serving  Calories: 1011; Total Carbohydrates: 32g; Saturated Fat: 26g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 64g; Sodium: 444mgSERVES 6 TO 8
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 (3-pound) beef chuck roast
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 large onion, halved and sliced
4 garlic cloves, minced
4 fresh thyme sprigs
1 bay leaf
1¾ cups or 1 (14.5-ounce) can 
beef broth
1 pound new potatoes, halved, 
no bigger than 1-inch pieces
4 to 5 large carrots, cut into 
¾-inch pieces
3 large parsnips, cut into 
¾-inch pieces111 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYBarbecue Beef Brisket
GLUTEN-FREE  This brisket may not be cooked on a barbecue, but it has all of that sweet, 
tangy, and meaty flavor. It’s a great dish for the Jewish holidays or a summer gathering. 
Serve as is or on hamburger buns.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 2 HOURS, 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH  
RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
Add the oil.
2. Season the brisket with salt and pepper. Once the pot is 
hot, brown the brisket on all sides, about 3 minutes per 
side. Remove and set aside.
3. Add the onion and garlic and sauté for 3 minutes. Add the 
tomato sauce, water, brown sugar, mustard, Worcestershire, 
paprika, and chili powder and stir. Add the meat and secure 
the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1½ hours.
5. Once cooking is complete, let the pressure release 
naturally for 10 minutes. Release any remaining pressure.
6. Using tongs, remove the meat and let it rest. Select Sauté 
on high heat and add the vinegar. Simmer the sauce until 
thick, 10 to 15 minutes. Slice the meat against the grain 
and return it to the sauce. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  For a more traditional holiday brisket, leave out the 
mustard, Worcestershire, paprika, and chili powder.
Per Serving  Calories: 514; Total Carbohydrates: 11g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 70g; Sodium: 338mgSERVES 8
3 tablespoons canola oil
1 (4-pound) beef brisket, 
trimmed of excess fat and 
quartered
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 large onion, cut into  
⅛-inch slices
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 (6-ounce) can tomato sauce
1 cup water
⅓ cup brown sugar
2 tablespoons brown mustard
1 tablespoon Worcestershire 
sauce
2 teaspoons smoked paprika
1 teaspoon chili powder
3 tablespoons apple cider 
vinegar112 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYOne-Pot Pasta Bolognese
Pasta with meat sauce is a dinner favorite, and simplifying things by cooking the sauce 
and pasta together means it will be a cook’s favorite, too. If you don’t have ground beef, 
ground turkey, lamb, or pork will work, too.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat.
2. Wait 1 minute and then add the oil. Add the ground beef 
and use a wooden spoon or spatula to break up and stir as 
it cooks, about 3 minutes. 
3. Once the meat is browned and cooked, add the onion  
and stir. Cook for 1 minute and add the garlic. Cook for  
1 minute more.
4. Add the wine and scrape the bottom to deglaze the pan. 
Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, or until the alcohol smell has 
gone away.
5. Add the salt, red pepper flakes, and water and stir. Add  
the pasta and stir. Pour the tomatoes or tomato sauce over 
in an even layer, covering the pasta. Secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. T est the 
pasta. If it isn’t quite done, select Sauté and simmer for 
another 1 to 2 minutes. Serve topped with mozzarella. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  Replace up to half of the water with beef broth for  
an extra boost of ﬂavor.
Per Serving  Calories: 596; Total Carbohydrates: 68g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 7g; Protein: 45g; Sodium: 841mgSERVES 4
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
12 ounces lean ground beef
1 large onion, chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
½ cup dry red wine
½ teaspoon kosher salt, plus 
more for seasoning
¼ teaspoon red pepper ﬂakes
1½ cups water
12 ounces uncooked penne 
pasta (with a 9- to 13-minute  
cook time)
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes in purée or good 
tomato sauce
½ cup shredded  
mozzarella cheese113 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYFive-Spice Boneless Beef Ribs
Boneless beef ribs are made unbelievably tender and flavorful in record time thanks to 
the magic of pressure cooking. Chinese five-spice powder, fresh ginger, soy sauce, and 
sugar make a salty-sweet, Asian-style sauce. Serve over steamed rice.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 35 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
15 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the oven to broil. 
2. Coat the ribs with the five -spice powder and season with 
salt. Place on a baking sheet and broil them for 3 minutes 
on each side.
3. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the oil.
4. Add the garlic and ginger and sauté for 2 minutes, until 
starting to brown. Add the vinegar and cook for 1 minute. 
Select Cancel and add the broth, soy sauce, and sugar and 
stir until the sugar dissolves. Add the ribs and secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 35 minutes. 
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take about 15 minutes.
7. Remove the ribs and place them back on the baking sheet. 
Brush with the cooking liquid and broil again for 3 minutes 
per side to form a crust.
8. Meanwhile, select Sauté on high heat and reduce the sauce 
by up to half.
9. After broiling, brush the ribs on all sides with the sauce. 
Serve with extra sauce.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Chinese ﬁve-spice powder is a blend of star anise, 
cloves, Sichuan peppercorns, cinnamon, and fennel. It can be found 
in the spice aisle or international section of the grocery store or at 
specialty markets.
Per Serving  Calories: 247; Total Carbohydrates: 10g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 27g; Sodium: 746mgSERVES 6
6 boneless beef short ribs, 
trimmed
2 teaspoons Chinese ﬁve-
spice powder
Kosher salt
2 tablespoons canola oil
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 (1-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and ﬁnely chopped
2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar
½ cup beef broth
¼ cup soy sauce
¼ cup raw sugar or brown sugar114 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCorned Beef
Corned beef usually takes many hours to cook, but the pressure cooker changes all of 
that. In just a couple of hours, a piece of tender and flavorful meat will emerge from 
your cooker ready to eat. Serve with the Horseradish Mashed Potatoes on page 48 and 
the Braised Cabbage on page 42 for an Irish feast.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 2 HOURS • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Rinse the corned beef and pat dry. T rim off the excess fat, 
leaving a thin layer.
2. Place the corned beef in the Instant Pot and cover with 
the beer and broth. Add the onion and bay leaf and season 
with pepper. Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1½ hours.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take 15 to 20 minutes.
5. Using tongs, remove the meat and let it rest a few minutes 
before slicing.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you forgot to pick up chicken broth, replace it with 
water. It will still be ﬂavorful.
Per Serving  Calories: 388; Total Carbohydrates: 3g; Saturated Fat: 0g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 28g; Sodium: 1876mgSERVES 8 
1 (3½- to 4-pound) ﬂat-cut 
corned beef
1 (12-ounce) bottle beer  
(lager or pilsner is best)
2 cups chicken broth
1 onion, quartered
1 bay leaf
Freshly ground black pepper115 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WORTH THE WAITOxtail Ragu
GLUTEN-FREE  T ough but flavorful oxtails become so tender after just an hour of pressure 
cooking that the meat falls apart into the sauce. Serve over a bed of Parmesan polenta 
or fresh pasta. 
PREP: 20 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
40 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat. 
Add the oil.
2. Season the oxtails well with salt and pepper. Once the pot 
is hot, add half of the oxtails in a single layer. Cook for 
about 4 minutes, or until browned. Flip and repeat on the 
other side. Repeat with the rest of the oxtails and set aside.
3. Carefully drain all but 1 to 2 tablespoons of the fat.
4. Add the butter. Once melted, add the onion, carrots, and 
celery. Cook, stirring occasionally, for 2 minutes. Add the 
wine and scrape up any brown bits off the bottom of the 
pot. Cook for about 2 minutes, or until the smell of alcohol 
goes away.
5. Add the tomatoes, crushing them with your hands before 
dropping them into the pot. Add the broth and red pepper 
flakes. Season with salt and pepper and secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1 hour.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take 15 to 20 minutes.
8. Remove the oxtails and carefully strip the meat off the 
bones. Add the meat back to the sauce and stir. Serve.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  T o make this dish Paleo, use olive oil instead of 
butter and ¼ cup broth instead of wine.
Per Serving  Calories: 621; Total Carbohydrates: 15g; Saturated Fat: 13g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 55g; Sodium: 544mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons canola oil
12 (3-inch) oxtail pieces, 
rinsed and dried
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons butter
1 onion, chopped
2 carrots, peeled and chopped
2 celery stalks, chopped
½ cup dry red wine
1 (28-ounce) can whole 
tomatoes, drained
½ cup beef broth or water
Pinch red pepper ﬂakes116 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAITLamb Curry
GLUTEN-FREE  Traditional South Indian lamb curry combines a number of aromatic 
spices to create layers of flavor without overwhelming the lamb. This recipe is a simpler 
version of the dish, using garam masala—a blend of several Indian spices—to simulate 
the flavors. Marinating your lamb is the secret to this dish, so let it sit for at least  
30 minutes. Serve with steamed jasmine rice or naan.
PREP: 5 MINUTES, PLUS AT LEAST 30 MINUTES TO MARINATE  
PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR, 15 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Season the lamb with salt and pepper. In a large bowl, 
combine the lamb, ginger, garlic, and yogurt. Let marinate 
for at least 30 minutes or up to 8 hours in the refrigerator.
2. Add the lamb and all of its liquid, along with the butter, 
onion, garam masala, turmeric, and tomatoes with juice  
to the Instant Pot. Season with salt and pepper and stir. 
Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 20 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. If a thicker 
sauce is desired, select Sauté and cook on high heat until 
the sauce has thickened.
5. T op with fresh cilantro and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Garam masala can typically be found in the spice 
section or the international aisle of your grocery store.
Per Serving  Calories: 391; Total Carbohydrates: 9g; Saturated Fat: 7g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 51g; Sodium: 214mgSERVES 4 TO 6
1½ pounds boneless lamb, 
trimmed of fat and cut into 
1-inch cubes
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 (1-inch) piece fresh ginger, 
peeled and grated
4 garlic cloves, minced
⅓ cup plain yogurt
1 tablespoon butter
1 small onion, diced
2½ teaspoons garam masala
½ teaspoon turmeric
1 (14.5-ounce) can diced 
tomatoes, with juice
Fresh cilantro, for garnish117 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WEEKDAY WINLamb and Feta Meatballs with Tomato and Olive Sauce
Ground lamb is mixed with feta cheese and herbs to form tender, Greek-inspired 
meatballs in this easy dish. The meatballs and sauce cook simultaneously, making 
dinner extra fast. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 8 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. In a large bowl, combine the lamb, egg, breadcrumbs, feta, 
parsley, mint, water, half of the minced garlic, salt, and 
pepper. Form into 1 -inch balls.
2. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. 
3. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion and bell 
pepper. Cook for 2 minutes and add the remaining minced 
garlic. Cook for 1 minute more.
4. Stir in the crushed tomatoes with juice, tomato sauce, and 
oregano. Season with salt and pepper. Add the meatballs 
and carefully spoon the sauce over them. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 8 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Check a 
meatball to make sure it’s cooked through. Serve with the 
sauce topped with olives (if using), and a sprinkle of feta 
and parsley.
INSTANT POT TIP:  You can use the Stew function for this dish. Adjust 
the timer to 8 minutes and proceed with the recipe as written.
Per Serving  Calories: 384; Total Carbohydrates: 17g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 38g; Sodium: 904mgSERVES 6 TO 8
1½ pounds ground lamb
1 egg, beaten
½ cup plain breadcrumbs
½ cup crumbled feta cheese, 
plus extra for garnish
2 tablespoons ﬁnely chopped 
fresh parsley, plus extra  
for garnish
1 tablespoon ﬁnely chopped 
fresh mint
1 tablespoon water
4 garlic cloves, minced, 
divided
½ teaspoon kosher salt, plus 
more for sauce
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper, plus more  
for sauce
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium onion, chopped
1 medium green bell pepper, 
chopped
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes with juice
1 (6-ounce) can tomato sauce
1 teaspoon dried oregano
⅓ cup pitted and chopped 
Kalamata olives (optional)118 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYBaby Back Ribs
Not only can you have succulent baby back ribs in under an hour with a pressure 
cooker, but it’s arguably the best way to cook ribs. It breaks down the tough meat in 
record time while keeping it juicy and flavorful. Finishing the ribs in the oven gives  
them a nice sticky coating.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 55 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. In a small bowl, combine the salt, brown sugar, chili 
powder, paprika, garlic powder, cayenne, and black pepper. 
2. Cut the rack of ribs into 4 equal pieces. Rub all sides of 
each piece with the spice rub.
3. Add the broth to the Instant Pot. Add the ribs to the pot in 
a teepee formation and secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook on high pressure for 30 minutes.
5. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Line a baking sheet with foil.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release.
7. Use tongs to move the ribs to the baking sheet. Brush  
the ribs on all sides with the barbecue sauce and bake for  
7 minutes on each side.
8. Serve as racks or cut into individual ribs.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Homemade barbecue sauce is truly delicious, but a 
bottled version will do in a pinch.
Per Serving  Calories: 659; Total Carbohydrates: 21g; Saturated Fat: 2g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 63g; Sodium: 2006mgSERVES 4
2 tablespoons kosher salt
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 tablespoon chili powder
1 tablespoon paprika
2 teaspoons garlic powder
1½ teaspoons cayenne 
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 (3- to 4-pound) rack baby 
back ribs
1 cup beef broth or water
Barbecue sauce (try the recipe 
on page 145)119 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYPulled Pork
Making juicy and flavorful pulled pork is typically an all-day affair, but with a pressure 
cooker, it’s ready in less than two hours. Chunks of boneless pork roast, also known as 
Boston butt, cook until fork-tender in a mix of spices and natural juices, making this 
recipe largely hands-off. It even produces its own barbecue sauce.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 45 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
30 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Cut the pork roast against the grain into 4 equal pieces.
2. In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, chili powder, 
paprika, cumin, salt, and pepper. Rub the pork roast on all 
sides with the spice mixture.
3. Add the apple cider or water, vinegar, and ketchup to the 
Instant Pot and stir. Add the spice -rubbed pork and secure 
the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 45 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a natural 
release. This will take about 15 minutes.
6. T ransfer the pork to a plate and let it cool slightly. Shred 
with a fork, trimming off and discarding any extra fat.
7. Skim excess fat from the cooking liquid. Select Sauté and 
simmer the sauce for about 20 minutes, or until it measures 
at the 2 -cup line. Season with salt and pepper if needed.
8. Add half of the sauce to the pork and stir to combine. 
Serve on soft hamburger buns with more sauce.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  Freshly ground black pepper can be used in place 
of white pepper, if needed.
Per Serving  Calories: 624; Total Carbohydrates: 37g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 84g; Sodium: 1019mgSERVES 6 TO 8
1 (4-pound) boneless pork 
roast, trimmed of excess fat
3 packed tablespoons  
brown sugar
2 tablespoons chili powder
2 tablespoons smoked paprika
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon kosher salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground 
white pepper
¾ cup apple cider or water
½ cup apple cider vinegar
½ cup ketchup
6 to 8 soft hamburger buns120 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYOne-Pot Beans, Sausage, and Greens
GLUTEN-FREE  When the weather turns cold and you want a meal that’s wholesome and 
comforting, a steamy pot of tender beans, meaty sausage, and flavorful greens is just 
what the doctor ordered. Using canned beans makes this an ultra-fast meal—ready in 
less than 30 minutes.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 5 MINUTES • TOTAL: 25 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the sausage. Cook, 
breaking apart with a wooden spoon or spatula, until the 
sausage is browned and cooked through. Remove the 
sausage and set aside.
3. Add the onion to the pot and cook for 2 minutes. Add the 
garlic and cook for 1 minute more, or until the onions are 
translucent.
4. Add the greens, beans, and broth, and season with salt and 
pepper. Stir. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 5 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a  
quick release.
7. Add the sausage. T aste and adjust the seasoning. If you 
want less liquid, select Sauté on high heat and cook for up 
to 5 minutes.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Prepare your collard greens by ﬁlling your sink 
basin with cold water. Separate the leaves and submerge, swishing 
around. Let them sit for a few minutes and the dirt will sink to the 
bottom. Drain the leaves and dry them before tearing the leafy 
greens off the stems in large chunks. Roll the greens into a cigar 
shape and slice them.
Per Serving  Calories: 648; Total Carbohydrates: 60g; Saturated Fat: 9g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 21g; Protein: 37g; Sodium: 1282mgSERVES 4 TO 6 
1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
12 ounces Italian-style or hot 
sausage, without casing
1 medium yellow onion, 
chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 large bunch collard greens, 
stemmed and chopped
2 (15-ounce) cans pinto beans, 
rinsed and drained
½ cup chicken broth or water
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper121 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYTeriyaki Pork Loin
Meaty pork loin roast is marinated in soy sauce, pineapple juice, and ginger for lots 
of sweet and salty flavor. You can technically skip the marinating step, but it’s worth 
thinking ahead!
PREP: 10 MINUTES, PLUS AT LEAST 2 HOURS TO MARINATE  
PRESSURE: 25 MINUTES • TOTAL: 2 HOURS, 50 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. In a large bowl or large resealable plastic bag, combine 
the pork, soy sauce, pineapple juice, brown sugar, 2 of the 
minced garlic cloves, and the grated ginger. Marinate in the 
refrigerator for at least 2 hours or overnight.
2. Select Sauté on high heat on the Instant Pot and add the oil.
3. Remove the roast from the marinade and let drain, reserving 
the marinade. Brown the roast in the oil on all sides, about  
3 minutes per side. T ransfer the meat to a plate.
4. With the pot still on Sauté, add the onion and cook, 
stirring frequently, for 3 minutes until starting to brown. 
Add the remaining 4 minced garlic cloves and cook for  
1 minute more. Add the roast and the reserved marinade, 
adding a little water if needed to bring the total liquid to  
1 cup. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 25 minutes. 
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. T est the 
pork for doneness—it should be at least 140 ºF in the center. 
Remove the roast and let it rest. Add the vinegar to the sauce. 
7. Select Sauté and simmer for 5 minutes to reduce the sauce.
8. Serve the meat sliced, with sauce spooned over the top.
VARIATION TIP:  For even more fruity ﬂavor, toss in 1 cup chopped 
pineapple.
Per Serving  Calories: 485; Total Carbohydrates: 20g; Saturated Fat: 3g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 63g; Sodium: 1146mgSERVES 4 TO 6
1 (2- to 2½-pound) boneless 
pork loin roast, trimmed of 
excess fat
½ cup lower-sodium soy sauce
½ cup pineapple juice
3 tablespoons brown sugar
6 garlic cloves, minced, divided
1 heaping teaspoon grated 
fresh ginger
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 large red onion, cut into 
⅛-inch slices
2 tablespoons rice wine 
vinegar122 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYPork Fried Rice
Make a classic takeout dish in about the same time it would take for the delivery to 
arrive. Plus, it’s healthier and you’ll end up with only one pot to wash. Swap the pork 
for beef if you like. 
PREP: 12 MINUTES • PRESSURE: ABOUT 10 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 40 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: LOW • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté on high heat.
2. Add 1 tablespoon of oil, followed by the onion and carrot. 
Cook, stirring frequently, for 2 minutes. 
3. Season the pork with salt and pepper and add it to the pot. 
Cook, stirring occasionally, for 5 minutes more, or until 
the pork is cooked through.
4. Select Cancel and remove the pork, onion, and carrot.  
Add the water and scrape the bottom of the pan to remove 
any browned bits. Add the rice and a pinch of salt and 
secure the lid.
5. Select Rice and cook for the automated amount of time  
(8 to 15 minutes). 
6. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and let naturally 
release for 10 minutes. Vent any remaining steam.
7. Stir the rice and push it up against the sides, exposing the 
bottom of the pot in the middle.SERVES 4
3 tablespoons canola oil, 
divided
1 small onion, ﬁnely chopped
1 medium carrot, peeled and 
ﬁnely chopped
8 ounces thin pork loin chop, 
cut into ½-inch pieces
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
3 cups plus 2 tablespoons water
2 cups long-grain white rice
1 egg, beaten
½ cup frozen peas
3 tablespoons soy sauce123 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  8. Select Sauté. Once hot, add the remaining 2 tablespoons of oil.
9. Add the egg, and scramble it while it cooks.
10. When the egg is mostly cooked, add the peas along with the onion, carrot, 
and pork. Stir the rice into the mixture and cook, stirring occasionally, for 
a few minutes. 
11. Select Cancel, stir in the soy sauce, and serve immediately.
INSTANT POT TIP:  You can swap out the white rice for brown. Consult your Instant Pot 
manual or the Electric Pressure Cooking Time Charts at the back of this book for the 
correct cook times.
Per Serving  Calories: 547; Total Carbohydrates: 81g; Saturated Fat: 2g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 3g; Protein: 22g; Sodium: 867mg124 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAIT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYEasy Hawaiian-Style Pork
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Kālua is a traditional Hawaiian cooking method that 
utilizes an underground oven and a low and very slow cooking method. It yields super 
juicy meat, but isn’t exactly practical for making at home. In comes the pressure cooker, 
which simulates hours and hours of slow cooking in less than two hours. Serve with 
braised cabbage, rice, or grilled pineapple and peppers.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 2 HOURS • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Cut the pork roast into 3 equal pieces. Place in the bottom 
of the Instant Pot in a single layer.
2. Add the onion, garlic, and salt, and season with pepper. 
Add the water and secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1½ hours.
4. Once cooking is complete, select Cancel and use a natural 
pressure release. This will take 15 to 20 minutes.
5. Shred the pork and serve with the juice.
INGREDIENT TIP:  You can ﬁnd Hawaiian salt in specialty and health 
food stores or order it online. Smoked sea salt will work in a pinch.
Per Serving  Calories: 536; Total Carbohydrates: 2g; Saturated Fat: 13g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 51g; Sodium: 3509mgSERVES 8 
1 (5-pound) bone-in pork roast
1 onion, quartered
6 garlic cloves, minced
1½ tablespoons red Hawaiian 
coarse salt or 1 tablespoon 
red Hawaiian ﬁne salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup water125 BEEF , LAMB , AND  PORK  
WEEKDAY WINGerman Sausages with Peppers and Onions
Beer-braised bratwursts are a popular German dish, especially during Oktoberfest. 
Cooking the sausages in the pressure cooker locks in the flavor and juices and makes the 
dish an easy weeknight meal. If you’re feeding more than four, add more sausages and 
veggies as needed and ⅓ cup beer per sausage.
PREP: 12 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. T o preheat the Instant Pot, select Sauté. Add the butter  
or oil.
2. Once hot, add the sausages. Brown them on both sides. 
This will take 5 to 10 minutes.
3. Remove the sausages and turn the heat to high. Add the 
onion and stir. Cook for 4 to 5 minutes until the onion 
starts to brown.
4. Add the peppers and lager and stir. Cook for 1 minute. 
Season with salt and pepper. Add the sausages and secure 
the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Serve 
the sausages on hoagie rolls topped with the peppers and 
onions and mustard.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  If you don’t want to use beer, replace it with beef 
broth. You can also use nonalcoholic beer, although the sausages 
and veggies don’t really absorb any alcohol.
Per Serving  Calories: 624; Total Carbohydrates: 57g; Saturated Fat: 13g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 23g; Sodium: 1266mgSERVES 4 
2 tablespoons butter or  
canola oil
4 large German sausages, 
such as bratwurst
1 large onion, halved and cut 
into ¼-inch slices
1 green bell pepper, seeded 
and cut into ¼-inch rings
1 red bell pepper, seeded and 
cut into ¼-inch rings
1 (12-ounce) bottle German-
style lager
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 hoagie rolls
Good-quality mustard,  
for servingDESSERTCHAPTER EIGHT
DESSERT
Carrot Cake Rice 
Pudding  128
Molten Brownie 
Pudding  129
Little Pumpkin 
Puddings  130
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding  131
Key Lime Cheesecake  132Peach and Blueberry 
Cobbler  134
Easy Apple 
Dumplings  135
White Wine–Poached 
Pears with Vanilla  136
Sea Salt Dulce  
de Leche  137128 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYCarrot Cake Rice Pudding
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Creamy rice pudding is just a few minutes away! This 
version has all of the major components of carrot cake—brown sugar, coconut, raisins, 
shredded carrots—without the hassle of baking a cake. Using a natural release will 
ensure good texture and prevent the pudding from splattering. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 12 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the rice, coconut milk, milk, carrot, and salt to the 
pressure cooker and stir. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 12 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take about 10 minutes.
4. Select Sauté and add the brown sugar, egg, and vanilla and 
stir well. Once the mixture begins to boil, select Cancel. 
Add the coconut, raisins, cinnamon, and ginger.
5. Let cool for a few minutes, as the pudding will thicken as it 
sits. Serve warm or cold.
SUBSTITUTION TIP:  If you don’t have coconut milk, increase the 
quantity of milk to 3½ cups. T o make the recipe nondairy, replace 
the milk with water.
Per Serving  Calories: 647; Total Carbohydrates: 82g; Saturated Fat: 27g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 12g; Sodium: 265mgSERVES 5 TO 6
1 cup Arborio rice
1 (14-ounce) can coconut milk
2 cups milk
½ cup ﬁnely shredded carrot
¼ teaspoon table salt
¼ cup packed brown sugar
1 large egg, well beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
½ cup sweetened shredded 
coconut
⅓ cup raisins
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon ground ginger129 DESSERT
WORTH THE WAITMolten Brownie Pudding
VEGETARIAN  T otally decadent, this ultra-chocolaty dessert is not for the faint of heart. 
Once cooked, the pudding is creamy, buttery, and rich, with all of the flavors of a good 
brownie. Serve with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steam rack on top.
2. Butter a 6 - to 7 -inch soufflé or baking dish with 1 table-
spoon of butter. (If your dish doesn’t have handles, make 
a sling with a piece of foil, folded in half twice, that’s long 
enough to go under the dish and stick up 6 inches on each 
side, creating “handles. ”)
3. In a large bowl, use an electric mixer to beat together the 
sugar and eggs until light yellow and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes.
4. In a small bowl, combine the flour, cocoa powder, and salt 
and whisk until no lumps remain. Add to the sugar and egg 
mixture and mix just until combined. Add the vanilla and 
the remaining 6 tablespoons of melted butter and mix just 
until combined.
5. Pour the mixture into the prepared baking dish. T op with 
the chocolate chips and place on the steam rack. Secure 
the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes. 
Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Carefully 
remove the top so that any condensation doesn’t drip on 
the pudding, then carefully remove the pan using oven 
mitts or tongs.
7. Let it cool for at least 5 minutes before serving.
Per Serving  Calories: 680; Total Carbohydrates: 92g; Saturated Fat: 20g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 346mgSERVES 3 TO 4
1½ cups water
7 tablespoons butter,  
melted, divided
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
¼ cup all-purpose ﬂour
¼ cup plus 2 tablespoons 
unsweetened cocoa powder
Pinch table salt
½ teaspoon vanilla
¼ cup semisweet  
chocolate chips130 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYLittle Pumpkin Puddings
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  I crave pumpkin pie throughout the fall and winter, but 
rarely bother to actually bake one. Luckily, these easy-as-pie puddings came along. 
They’re so much quicker to whip up and cook than a whole pie and satisfy all of those 
pumpkin cravings. These puddings also make a lovely gluten-free Thanksgiving dessert.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 35 MINUTES, PLUS 1 TO 2 HOURS TO COOL  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing the steam rack on top.
2. Butter 4 mugs or other 1 -cup, heat -proof containers.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the pumpkin, sugar, 
cinnamon, salt, ginger, and cloves until combined. Add  
the half -and-half, egg, egg yolk, and vanilla and whisk  
until creamy.
4. Pour the mixture into the containers, dividing evenly, and 
place side by side on the steam rack. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Carefully 
remove the lid so that water doesn’t drip on the top of the 
puddings. Let the puddings sit until the steam dies down 
and then very carefully lift them out.
7. Let cool to room temperature before serving, 1 to 2 hours. 
COOKING TIP:  Any 1-cup-size heat-proof containers will do, including 
mugs, baking cups, small soufflé dishes, or ramekins.
Per Serving  Calories: 174; Total Carbohydrates: 18g; Saturated Fat: 6g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 205mgSERVES 4 
1 cup water
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup pumpkin purée  
(not pumpkin pie ﬁlling)
¼ cup sugar
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
¼ teaspoon table salt
¼ teaspoon ground ginger
Pinch ground cloves
¾ cup half-and-half
1 egg, beaten
1 egg yolk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract131 DESSERT
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYChocolate and Orange Bread Pudding
VEGETARIAN  Bread pudding cooks happily in the pressure cooker with the steam making 
it extra fluffy. Orange zest, dark chocolate, and almond extract add rich, sophisticated 
flavors. It’s also a fun way to use up any stale bread you have lying around.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing a steam rack on top.
2. Butter a 6 - to 7 -inch soufflé or baking dish. 
3. In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs and ⅓ cup of sugar 
until well mixed. Add the milk, cream, orange juice, zest, 
almond extract, and salt. Mix well.
4. Add the bread and toss until all of the bread is coated. Let 
it sit for 5 minutes, stirring once or twice.
5. Add the chocolate and mix. Pour into the baking dish and 
press down if needed. Sprinkle the top with the remaining 
1 tablespoon of sugar. Place the dish on the steam rack and 
secure the lid. 
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Be sure to 
remove the lid carefully and quickly so that condensation 
doesn’t drip on the pudding. Carefully remove the pan 
using oven mitts or tongs. Serve warm.
VARIATION TIP:  If you’re making dessert for two, you can easily halve 
this recipe and cook it in two small ramekins. 
COOKING TIP:  If your dish doesn’t have handles, create a sling with a 
piece of foil, folded twice, that’s long enough to go under the dish 
and stick up 6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
Per Serving  Calories: 467; Total Carbohydrates: 51g; Saturated Fat: 14g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 12g; Sodium: 336mgSERVES 4 TO 5
2 cups water
1 teaspoon butter
3 large eggs 
⅓ cup plus 1 tablespoon  
sugar, divided
½ cup whole or 2 percent milk
¾ cup heavy cream or  
half-and-half
2 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed orange juice
Zest of 1 orange
1 teaspoon almond extract
Pinch table salt
3½ cups stale French bread, 
cut into ¾-inch cubes
3 ounces high-quality dark or 
semisweet chocolate, cut 
into small pieces132 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYKey Lime Cheesecake
VEGETARIAN  The pressure cooker makes phenomenal cheesecake, cooking it equally all 
the way through so that it’s creamy throughout. You’ll need a 7-inch springform pan for 
this recipe, but it’s worth the investment. When you taste how good this dessert is, you’ll 
be making cheesecakes left and right.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Prepare the Instant Pot by adding the water to the pot and 
placing a steam rack on top.
2. Butter a 7 -inch springform pan with 1 tablespoon of 
butter. (If your pan doesn’t have handles, make a sling for 
it before putting it into the pot. See the Cooking Tip for 
instructions.) 
3. In a small bowl, combine the graham cracker or gingersnap 
crumbs and remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Press into 
the bottom of the pan and almost halfway up the sides.
4. In a large bowl or stand mixer, beat together the cream 
cheese and sugar until very smooth. Add the eggs and 
beat until creamy. Add the lime juice, zest, and vanilla 
and beat until combined. Add the flour and beat just until 
combined.
5. Pour the mixture into the pan on top of the prepared crust. 
Place the pan on the steam rack and secure the lid.
6. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.SERVES 6
1½ cups water
3 tablespoons butter,  
melted, divided
½ cup graham cracker or 
gingersnap crumbs
1 pound cream cheese
½ cup sugar
2 eggs
2 tablespoons Key lime juice
1 teaspoon Key lime zest
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1½ tablespoons  
all-purpose ﬂour133 DESSERT7. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Carefully remove the lid 
so that condensation doesn’t drip on the top of the cheesecake. Lift out 
using the handles or foil sling.
8. Let it cool to room temperature and then cover and refrigerate overnight 
before serving.
VARIATION TIP:  Swap out the lime for lemon, or try chocolate cookies for the crust.
COOKING TIP:  A 6- or 7-inch baking pan or soufflé dish will come in handy when 
making a variety of dishes in your Instant Pot. If your dish or steam rack doesn’t  
have handles, create a sling with a piece of foil, folded in half twice, that’s long 
enough to go under the dish and stick up 6 inches on each side, creating “handles.”
Per Serving  Calories: 444; Total Carbohydrates: 28g; Saturated Fat: 21g; Trans Fat: 0g;  
Fiber: 1g; Protein: 8g; Sodium: 348mg134 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYPeach and Blueberry Cobbler
VEGETARIAN  Also known as a grunt or slump, this steamed fruit cobbler is easier than 
most dough-y desserts and ready in record time. The syrupy, almost jammy fruit is 
crowned with fluffy and tender dumplings that are lightly sweet. T op the warm cobbler 
with freshly whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. In a medium bowl, mix together the flour, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, the baking powder, salt, and baking soda until well 
combined. Add the butter and, using your hands, work 
it into the flour mixture until it resembles a coarse meal. 
Add the buttermilk or milk and mix just until moistened. 
Quickly form a shaggy ball of dough and set aside.
2. Select Sauté and add the peaches, blueberries, water, 
remaining ⅓ cup of sugar, cornstarch, lemon or lime juice, 
and nutmeg to the Instant Pot. Stir.
3. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes, or until fruit is defrosted and 
releases some juice. Select Cancel.
4. T ear off 1 -inch balls of the dough and nestle on top of  
the fruit, evenly spaced in one layer (you should have  
8 dumplings). Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Let it cool 
for a few minutes, since the liquid will thicken as it sits. 
Serve warm.
VARIATION TIP:  Replace the blueberries with blackberries or 
raspberries, depending on your taste and what’s available. T aste 
your fruit before adding it to see how sweet it is, in case you need  
to add more sugar. 
Per Serving  Calories: 330; Total Carbohydrates: 66g; Saturated Fat: 4g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 5g; Sodium: 438mgSERVES 4 TO 6
1 cup all-purpose ﬂour
⅓ cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar, 
divided
1½ teaspoons baking powder
½ teaspoon table salt
¼ teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons  
cold butter, cubed
⅓ cup buttermilk or whole milk
2 cups peeled,  
sliced frozen peaches
2 cups frozen blueberries 
⅓ cup water
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon freshly squeezed 
lemon or lime juice
Pinch ground nutmeg135 DESSERT
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYEasy Apple Dumplings
VEGETARIAN  These apple dumplings are super easy thanks to a can of crescent rolls. 
Each wedge of tart apple gets wrapped in dough and cooks in a mixture of butter, 
brown sugar, cinnamon, and apple cider. It’s a dessert that tastes like fall, but is simple 
enough to be enjoyed all year long.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Open the can of crescent rolls and roll the dough out flat. 
Roll each wedge of apple in 1 crescent roll.
3. Add the butter to the Instant Pot and select Cancel. Add the 
sugar, vanilla, cinnamon, and nutmeg and stir until melted.
4. Place the dumplings side by side in the Instant Pot. Drizzle 
the apple cider along the edges. Secure the lid.
5. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
6. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Let it cool 
for a few minutes and serve warm, drizzled with the sugar 
and cider syrup.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Granny Smiths work best since they’re nice and tart. 
If you’re using another type of apple, you may want to decrease the 
sugar a bit.
Per Serving  Calories: 267; Total Carbohydrates: 41g; Saturated Fat: 5g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 262mgSERVES 6 TO 8
1 (8-ounce) can crescent rolls
1 large Granny Smith apple, 
cored, peeled, and cut into 
8 large wedges
4 tablespoons butter
½ cup brown sugar
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch ground nutmeg
¾ cup apple cider136 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINWhite Wine–Poached Pears with Vanilla
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Poached pears are an easy but impressive dessert that you 
can prepare up to two days ahead of time. This recipe uses lighter and fruitier white 
wine along with a vanilla bean and spices to flavor the pears. Serve warm, cold, or at 
room temperature, with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.
PREP: 7 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 8 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the wine and sugar to the Instant Pot and stir until 
dissolved. Add the pears, cinnamon stick, cloves, vanilla 
bean pod, and lemon. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 8 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. For best 
results, store the pears in their cooking liquid overnight 
before proceeding.
4. Remove the pears and set aside. Remove the spices and all 
but 2 cups of liquid. Select Sauté and cook the sauce until 
reduced by half, or 5 to 10 minutes.
5. Serve the pears drizzled with the sauce.
VARIATION TIP:  Poached pears are often cooked in red wine, so switch 
out the wine if you like. You may want to add another ½ cup of sugar.
Per Serving  Calories: 310; Total Carbohydrates: 74g; Saturated Fat: 0g; 
Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 6mgSERVES 4
1 bottle white wine
1½ cups sugar
6 ﬁrm but ripe pears, peeled
1 cinnamon stick, broken in half
2 whole cloves
1 large vanilla bean pod, split 
open lengthwise
½ lemon, cut into rounds137 DESSERT
FAMILY-FRIENDLYSea Salt Dulce de Leche
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Dulce de leche is a thick, rich, and sweet sauce that’s 
delicious poured over ice cream or pound cake, sandwiched between shortbread cookies, 
or used in baked goods. A touch of sea salt and vanilla take the flavor over the top, and 
it’s extra easy to make in the pressure cooker. Note that the can must sit overnight before 
opening, so incorporate eight hours or more of cool-down time into your schedule.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES, 
PLUS 8 HOURS TO COOL • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Remove the label from the sweetened condensed milk.  
Do not open. 
2. Place the steam rack in the Instant Pot. Place the can of 
sweetened condensed milk on the steam rack without it 
touching the sides of the pot. Add enough water so that 
the can is completely submerged. Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual at high pressure and cook for 20 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This 
will take at least 10 minutes. Turn the Instant Pot off and 
carefully remove the lid. Do not disturb the can or water. 
Leave it overnight to cool.
5. Once completely cool, open the can and add the milk to a 
small bowl. Add the vanilla and salt and mix. For an even 
creamier texture, whip for a few minutes with an electric 
mixer in a medium bowl.
COOKING TIP:  Since the can is under pressure after cooking, be careful 
not to jostle the Instant Pot or the can itself after cooking, and do 
not open the can until it has cooled completely.
Per Serving (¼ cup) Calories: 171; Total Carbohydrates: 29g;  
Saturated Fat: 3g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 165mgMAKES ALMOST 2 CUPS 
1 (14- or 15-ounce) can 
sweetened condensed milk
½ teaspoon vanilla extract
½ teaspoon sea salt, or more 
to tasteSTOCKS   AND  SAUCESCHAPTER NINE
STOCKS  
AND SAUCES
Homemade  
Chicken Stock  140
Vegetable Stock  141
Beef Bone Broth  142
Spicy Chicken  
Bone Broth  143
Homemade Ketchup  144
Sweet and T angy  
Barbecue Sauce  145
Classic Marinara Sauce  146
Puttanesca Sauce  147Broccoli Pesto  148
Onion Gravy  149
Mango -Apple Chutney  150
Cranberry Sauce  151
Cinnamon Applesauce  152
Orange and Lemon 
Marmalade  153
T riple -Berry Jam  154
Apple Butter  155140 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAITHomemade Chicken Stock
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Homemade chicken stock can be the difference between 
a good dish and a great dish. It adds layers of flavor to any soup or stew, and it couldn’t 
be easier to make in the Instant Pot. Whip up a big batch—it freezes well.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR • TOTAL: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the chicken, onion, garlic, carrot, bay leaf, salt (if using), 
and peppercorns (if using) to the pot. Pour the water over. 
Secure the lid.
2. Select Soup and cook at high pressure for 1 hour. 
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take at least 15 minutes.
4. Carefully strain the broth through a fine -mesh strainer or 
cheesecloth. If you would like to remove the fat, let the 
stock cool in the refrigerator and remove the fat on top.
5. Store the stock in the refrigerator for a few days or freeze 
for up to 3 months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  For the chicken, leftover meat (raw or cooked), bones, 
and organs can be used. Whenever you have leftover chicken bones, 
toss them into a resealable freezer bag and add to it until you have 
enough to make stock. No need to defrost—just toss in the pot and 
proceed with the recipe.
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 104; Total Carbohydrates: 8g;  
Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 245mgMAKES 8 CUPS 
2 pounds chicken bones  
and parts
1 yellow onion, quartered
1 large garlic clove, smashed
1 carrot, cut into large chunks
1 bay leaf
½ teaspoon kosher salt 
(optional)
1 teaspoon whole black 
peppercorns (optional)
8 cups water141 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
WORTH THE WAITVegetable Stock
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Vegetable stock is handy to have around for 
lots of dishes made in the pressure cooker, adding so much more flavor than plain old 
water. It’s also a great way to use up leftover veggies. Use this recipe as a guide, but mix 
it up depending upon what you have lying around.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR • TOTAL: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES 
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the onions, celery, carrots, mushrooms, garlic, parsley, 
bay leaf, and water to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Soup and cook at high pressure for 1 hour.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take at least 15 minutes.
4. Carefully strain the stock using a fine -mesh strainer or 
cheesecloth. Season with salt (if using).
5. Store the stock in the refrigerator for a few days or freeze 
for up to 3 months.
VARIATION TIP:  Everything’s optional but the onion, celery, carrots, 
and water. Add whatever you have around, like leeks, scallions, 
other herbs, tomatoes, parsnips, and more.
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 42; Total Carbohydrates: 4g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: g; Protein: 0g; Sodium: 120mgMAKES 8 CUPS
2 onions, quartered
2 celery stalks, quartered
2 carrots, cut into large chunks
10 button mushrooms
4 garlic cloves, smashed
1 small bunch fresh parsley
1 bay leaf
8 cups water
Kosher salt (optional)142 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWORTH THE WAITBeef Bone Broth
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  In the cold winter months, nothing is as warming and 
nourishing as a cup of hot beef bone broth. Making savory broth is arguably one of the 
pressure cooker’s best uses, infusing big flavor in just an hour or two. Roasting the bones 
is optional, but adds even more flavor and a deeper color.
PREP: 5 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO ROAST  
PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 2 HOURS, 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. T oss the bones with the oil on a baking sheet and roast for 
30 minutes.
3. Once cool enough to handle, add the bones, onion, celery, 
carrot, bay leaf, vinegar, fish sauce (if using), and water to 
the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1½ hours.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take at least 15 minutes.
6. Skim any fat off the top of the stock, if desired. Carefully 
strain the broth using a fine -mesh strainer or cheesecloth. 
7. Store the broth in the refrigerator for a few days or freeze 
for up to 3 months.
VARIATION TIP:  You can use a mix of different bones (chicken, beef, 
and pork) if that’s what you have on hand.
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 54; Total Carbohydrates: 3g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 5g; Sodium: 278mgMAKES 8 CUPS
2½ pounds beef bones, 
including short ribs, 
knuckles, oxtails, and more
1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 yellow onion, quartered
2 celery stalks, quartered
1 carrot, cut into large chunks
1 bay leaf
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon ﬁsh sauce 
(optional)
8 cups water143 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
WORTH THE WAITSpicy Chicken Bone Broth
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  A warmly spicy and nourishing chicken broth like 
this one will warm you down to your bones. Chicken feet help make the broth more 
gelatinous, but aren’t required. The broth can be enjoyed on its own or combined with 
shredded chicken and noodles for a quick soup. 
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 1 HOUR, 30 MINUTES  
TOTAL: 2 HOURS, 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH  
RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the bones, onion, celery, carrot, ginger, peppercorns, 
fish sauce, vinegar, and water to the Instant Pot. Secure  
the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 1½ hours.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take at least 15 minutes.
4. Skim any fat off the top of the stock, if desired. Carefully 
strain the broth using a fine -mesh strainer or cheesecloth. 
5. Store the broth in the refrigerator for a few days or freeze 
for up to 3 months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you don’t have leftover bones, pay a visit to your 
butcher. Make sure you ask for the feet!
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 92; Total Carbohydrates: 8g;  
Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 6g; Sodium: 356mgMAKES 8 CUPS
2½ pounds mixed chicken 
bones and feet
1 yellow onion, quartered
1 celery stalk, quartered
1 carrot, cut into large chunks
1 (1½-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and cut into  
¼-inch slices
1 teaspoon whole black 
peppercorns
1 tablespoon ﬁsh sauce
1 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
8 cups water144 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYHomemade Ketchup
GLUTEN-FREE  You don’t know what you’re missing by using store-bought ketchup until 
you taste the homemade stuff. It’s a whole different thing, with more sweet, tart, and 
salty flavor than its bottled brethren. Give a jar away as a fun gift or store it in the 
freezer for your next grill-out.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 50 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion. Cook for  
3 minutes until the onion is starting to turn translucent. 
Add the garlic and sauté 1 minute more.
3. Add the tomatoes with juice, crushing the tomatoes with 
your hand as you add them. Add the vinegar, tomato paste, 
Worcestershire sauce, brown sugar, paprika, white pepper, 
and allspice and bring to a simmer. Add a pinch of salt and 
secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
6. Remove the lid and stir. T aste for seasoning. Select Sauté 
and cook, stirring occasionally, until reduced and thick,  
15 to 20 minutes. Use an immersion blender to blend until 
smooth, or blend in a food processor.
7. Let it cool and store it in the refrigerator for up to 1 month 
or the freezer for several months.
VARIATION TIP:  Play with the spices in this recipe to make it your own. 
Add liquid smoke for a smoky ﬂavor or cayenne for a spicy kick.
Per Serving (2 tablespoons)  Calories: 36; Total Carbohydrates: 5g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 87mgMAKES ABOUT 2½ CUPS
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium onion, ﬁnely chopped
4 garlic cloves, smashed
1 (28-ounce) can whole 
tomatoes with juice
½ cup red wine vinegar
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 teaspoon Worcestershire 
sauce
⅓ cup packed brown sugar
½ teaspoon paprika
¼ teaspoon white pepper
⅛ teaspoon ground allspice
Pinch kosher salt145 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
FAMILY-FRIENDLYSweet and Tangy Barbecue Sauce
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  For ribs, chicken, and pork chops that are finger-licking 
good, a great barbecue sauce is key. Making your own is easy, and it’s far and away 
better than the mass-produced sauce at the grocery store. Letting it cool and sit in the 
refrigerator for a day or two will produce an even more flavorful sauce, so make it up to 
a week ahead.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the butter and let it melt. Add the onion  
and cook for 3 minutes until it is starting to turn translucent. 
Add the garlic and sauté 1 minute more.
3. Add the tomato sauce, ketchup, vinegar, brown sugar, 
molasses, mustard, liquid smoke (if using), cayenne, and 
pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
6. Stir and taste for seasoning. If a thicker sauce is desired, 
select Sauté and cook, stirring occasionally, for 10 to  
15 minutes.
7. Let it cool and store it in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks 
or the freezer for several months.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Liquid smoke adds a touch of smokiness that works 
wonders in a barbecue sauce like this one. It’s typically found in the 
supermarket spice aisle, and can also be found online.
Per Serving (2 tablespoons)  Calories: 56; Total Carbohydrates: 9g;  
Saturated Fat: 2g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 0g; Sodium: 159mgMAKES ABOUT 2½ CUPS 
4 tablespoons butter
1 small onion, ﬁnely chopped
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 cup tomato sauce
½ cup ketchup
½ cup apple cider vinegar
½ cup brown sugar
3 tablespoons molasses
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 teaspoon liquid smoke 
(optional)
¼ teaspoon cayenne 
¼ teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper146 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYClassic Marinara Sauce
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Marinara is in a huge number of Italian 
and Italian-inspired dishes, so it pays to have a good recipe handy. Most traditional 
recipes call for an hour or more of simmering on the stove, but this sauce only cooks  
for 30 minutes. Use it on pasta, pizza, and more.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 50 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté.
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion and carrot. 
Sauté for 2 minutes until the onion is translucent. Add the 
garlic and cook for 30 seconds.
3. Add the tomatoes with juice and stir. Add the oregano and 
secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
6. Stir and taste for seasoning. Add the sugar (if using), and 
season with salt and pepper as desired. Store for up to a 
week in the refrigerator or freeze for several months.
VARIATION TIP:  Add a pinch of red pepper ﬂakes for a little heat, or a 
sprinkle of basil for freshness.
Per Serving (¾ cup)  Calories: 103; Total Carbohydrates: 10g;  
Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Sodium: 350mgMAKES ABOUT 4 CUPS
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 medium onion, grated
1 large carrot, peeled  
and grated
5 garlic cloves, grated
1 (28-ounce) can crushed 
tomatoes with juice
½ teaspoon dried oregano
Pinch sugar (optional)
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper147 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
WEEKDAY WINPuttanesca Sauce
GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  Puttanesca is a tomato-based pasta sauce that’s briny 
and tangy, thanks to Kalamata olives, capers, and anchovies. It packs a lot of flavor 
into a small area, making your next pasta dish the opposite of bland. 
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 20 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add the oil followed by the onion. Sauté for  
3 minutes, then add the garlic. Sauté 1 minute more. 
3. Add the tomatoes with juice, squishing each one with your 
hand as it goes into the pot. Add the olives, anchovies, 
tomato paste, capers, and red pepper flakes. Season with 
salt and pepper. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 20 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure. Stir and 
taste for seasoning.
6. If a thicker sauce is desired, select Sauté and simmer for  
5 minutes. Serve over pasta.
COOKING TIP:  This recipe makes enough sauce to top 8 ounces  
of pasta.
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 145; Total Carbohydrates: 11g;  
Saturated Fat: 1g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 4g; Sodium: 806mgMAKES ABOUT 4 CUPS
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 small onion, ﬁnely chopped
4 garlic cloves, minced
1 (28-ounce) can whole 
tomatoes with juice
½ cup chopped pitted 
Kalamata olives
4 anchovy ﬁllets, drained  
and minced
1 tablespoon tomato paste
1 tablespoon drained capers
¼ teaspoon red pepper ﬂakes
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper148 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKVIRTUALLY INSTANT • FAMILY-FRIENDLYBroccoli Pesto
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Broccoli gives a nutritional boost to zesty pesto, making your 
pasta dinner a complete meal. Walnuts add protein, olive oil adds good fat, and broccoli 
adds fiber. This pesto tastes great and is super easy to make. T oss it with the pasta of 
your choice, or use it as a spread in your next grilled cheese (trust me).
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 3 MINUTES • TOTAL: 20 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: QUICK
1. Add the broccoli and water to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 3 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, combine the walnuts and garlic in a food 
processor. Pulse several times until crumbly, but before  
the walnuts turn to butter.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a quick release. Remove the 
broccoli (reserving the cooking liquid) and rinse with cold 
water. Drain well and add to the food processor, along with 
the basil, oil, and lemon juice.
5. Pulse until well mixed. Add ¼ cup of cooking liquid and 
the Parmesan, and season with salt and pepper. Process 
until smooth. Add more cooking liquid as needed. 
COOKING TIP:  You want the broccoli tender but not mushy. Adjust the 
cook time based on how large your ﬂorets are.
Per Serving (½ cup)  Calories: 248; Total Carbohydrates: 10g;  
Saturated Fat: 3g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 9g; Sodium: 144mgMAKES ABOUT 2 ½ CUPS
1 bunch broccoli (about  
1 pound), cut into ﬂorets 
(reserve stems for 
vegetable stock)
3 cups water
⅓ cup toasted walnuts
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 packed cup fresh  
basil leaves
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
¼ cup grated Parmesan 
cheese
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper149 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
WEEKDAY WIN • FAMILY-FRIENDLYOnion Gravy
You can frequently make a gravy using the juices left over after cooking a hunk of 
meat in the pressure cooker, but sometimes you need gravy for something like mashed 
potatoes. This all-purpose gravy gets its deep flavor from browned onions, thyme, and 
chicken broth. Homemade stock works the best (as always).
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 10 MINUTES • TOTAL: 40 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. 
2. Once hot, add 1 tablespoon of butter followed by the 
onion. Sauté for 6 minutes, until translucent and starting  
to brown.
3. Add the broth, thyme, and bay leaf. Secure the lid.
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 10 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure. 
6. Select Sauté. In a small bowl, knead together the remaining 
2 tablespoons of butter with the flour until a pasty ball 
forms. Add to the simmering broth and stir until the paste 
is dissolved and the gravy is thick, about 5 minutes.
7. Season with salt and pepper as desired. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  Cipollini onions, sweet onions, and shallots all work 
for this recipe.
Per Serving (¼ cup)  Calories: 50; Total Carbohydrates: 3g;  
Saturated Fat: 2g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 193mgMAKES ABOUT 2½ CUPS
3 tablespoons butter, divided
1 large sweet onion,  
ﬁnely chopped
2 cups chicken broth  
(try the recipe on page 140)
2 fresh thyme sprigs
1 bay leaf
2 tablespoons all-purpose ﬂour
Kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper150 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKWEEKDAY WINMango-Apple Chutney
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  Mango chutney is a popular condiment in Indian cuisine 
and adds sweet and spicy flavor to curries, roasted meats, and more. Here, apples add 
some extra sweetness and a smooth texture without taking away from the mango taste. 
The chutney will keep in the refridgerator for up to a month, and can be canned or 
frozen for up to a year.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 7 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Preheat the Instant Pot by selecting Sauté. Add the oil.
2. Once hot, add the onion and sauté for 3 minutes. Add the 
ginger and chile (if using), and cook for 1 minute.
3. Add the mangos, apples, bell pepper, raisins, sugar, vinegar, 
salt, curry powder, and cinnamon. Secure the lid. 
4. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 7 minutes.
5. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
6. Select Sauté and simmer the sauce until thickened, stirring 
occasionally, about 10 minutes. 
7. Add the lemon juice and stir. Store in airtight containers  
in the refrigerator for up to a month or in the freezer for up 
to a year.
INGREDIENT TIP:  It’s best to use ripe mangos for this recipe. You can 
tell if a mango is ripe by squeezing it—if it gives slightly, it’s ripe.
Per Serving (¼ cup)  Calories: 160; Total Carbohydrates: 38g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 197mgMAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 large red onion, ﬁnely chopped
1 heaping tablespoon  
grated fresh ginger
1 red Thai chile, cut into a few 
pieces (optional)
2 large mangos, peeled  
and diced
2 apples, cored, partially 
peeled, and diced
1 red bell pepper, diced
½ cup golden raisins
1¼ cups sugar
½ cup apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1½ teaspoons curry powder
½ teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed 
lemon juice151 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
FAMILY-FRIENDLYCranberry Sauce
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  The holidays just wouldn’t be the holidays without cranberry 
sauce, and this homemade version is on a whole different level than the canned stuff. It’s 
tart, sweet, and a bit spicy thanks to a dose of ginger. Because cranberries are so acidic, 
this sauce will keep for up to three weeks in the refrigerator. 
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 15 MINUTES • TOTAL: 35 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the cranberries, ginger, orange juice, orange zest, 
lemon juice, lemon zest, and sugar to the Instant Pot. 
Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 15 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release for  
10 minutes, then release any remaining pressure.
4. Let cool and remove the ginger if desired. The liquid will 
thicken as it cools. The sauce will keep in the refrigerator 
for up to 3 weeks.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Be sure to pick through your cranberries and remove 
any shriveled or bad-looking ones before cooking.
Per Serving ( ⅓ cup)  Calories: 177; Total Carbohydrates: 43g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 0g; Sodium: 0mgMAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS
4 cups washed cranberries, 
fresh or frozen
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, peeled 
and cut into ⅛-inch slices
½ cup freshly squeezed 
orange juice
Zest from ½ orange
Juice and zest from ½ lemon
1 cup sugar152 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYCinnamon Applesauce
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE, PALEO-FRIENDLY  I always make a big batch of homemade 
applesauce at the end of apple season. I tend to go a bit overboard buying apples,  
and applesauce is an easy but delicious way to enjoy the remaining fruits. Even mushy 
apples will taste great once they’re cooked into this naturally sweet sauce.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 4 MINUTES • TOTAL: 30 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the apples, cider or juice or water, and both halves  
of the cinnamon stick to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 4 minutes. 
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. 
4. Stir and remove the cinnamon stick halves. If the apple-
sauce isn’t sweet enough, add honey. If it isn’t tart enough, 
add lemon juice. If a super smooth texture is desired, use 
an immersion blender.
COOKING TIP:  If you own a food mill, you don’t have to peel your 
apples. Roughly dice them and throw them in the pot with the other 
ingredients. Once the cooking is done, run the mixture through the 
food mill.
Per Serving (1 cup)  Calories: 237; Total Carbohydrates: 63g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 11g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 5mgMAKES ABOUT 4 CUPS 
10 to 12 medium apples, peeled, 
cored, and roughly diced
½ cup apple cider, apple juice, 
or water
1 cinnamon stick, broken in half
Up to ¼ cup honey (optional)
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed 
lemon juice (optional)153 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  
FAMILY-FRIENDLYOrange and Lemon Marmalade
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  By combining oranges and lemons, this marmalade is not 
too bitter and not too sweet. The citrusy spread comes together easily in the pressure 
cooker and can be stored in the refrigerator or canned for longer storage. Displayed in  
a pretty jar and labeled, it makes a lovely gift.
PREP: 15 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 14 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Cut the oranges and lemons into ⅛ -inch slices (a mandoline 
comes in handy here). Discard the end pieces that are all 
peel or pith, and remove the seeds and set aside for use later. 
Cut the slices into 4 or 5 pieces.
2. Add the fruit and water to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 14 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. Add the 
sugar and stir until dissolved. Place the seeds in a tea bag 
or gauze packet, cinch, and place in the mixture. T aste  
for sweetness.
5. Select Sauté on high heat and boil for about 5 minutes, or 
until the marmalade sets. This will register as about 220°F 
on a thermometer. Remove the seed packet and discard.
6. Pour into clean jars and let them sit at room temperature 
until totally cooled. Store in jars in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 weeks or the freezer for several months. Alternatively, 
the marmalade can be canned and kept for a year.
VARIATION TIP:  Make this an all-lemon marmalade and increase 
the sugar to 4 pounds, or make it an all-orange marmalade and 
decrease the sugar to 2 to 2½ pounds.
Per Serving (2 tablespoons)  Calories: 114; Total Carbohydrates: 31g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 0g; Sodium: 0mgMAKES 6 CUPS
1½ pounds sweet oranges
8 ounces lemons, such as 
Meyer lemons
1 cup water
3 pounds sugar154 THE INSTANT POT ® ELECTRIC PRESSURE COOKER COOKBOOKFAMILY-FRIENDLYTriple-Berry Jam
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  The Instant Pot turns fresh berries into a not-too-sweet and 
lively jam in no time. Add more or less of each berry as you see fit, just as long as the 
total weight is the same. You may need to adjust the amount of sugar depending on how 
sweet your berries are.
PREP: 5 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 8 MINUTES • TOTAL: 45 MINUTES  
PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, and sugar to 
the Instant Pot and stir. Let it sit for at least 15 minutes or 
up to 1 hour.
2. Select Sauté and bring the mixture to a boil for 3 minutes. 
Secure the lid.
3. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 8 minutes.
4. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take about 10 minutes.
5. Remove the lid and select Sauté. Add the lemon juice and 
zest. Carefully taste the jam (it’s hot!) and add honey if 
needed. Boil for 3 to 4 minutes, stirring frequently, or until 
the gel point is reached. This will register as 220°F on a 
thermometer, and will coat the back of a wooden spoon.
6. Select Cancel. Mash the jam if a smoother texture is 
desired. Carefully transfer to lidded containers, close, and 
let them cool. The jam will keep in the refrigerator for up 
to 3 weeks or the freezer for at least 6 months.
COOKING TIP:  If you like a really smooth, seedless jam, push the fruit 
through a strainer between steps 4 and 5, then proceed with the 
recipe as written. Be careful, since the fruit will be hot.
Per Serving (¼ cup)  Calories: 134; Total Carbohydrates: 35g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 1mgMAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS
8 ounces fresh strawberries, 
hulled and halved
8 ounces fresh blueberries
8 ounces fresh raspberries
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
Up to ¼ cup honey (optional)155 STOCKS  AND  SAUCES  Apple Butter
VEGETARIAN, GLUTEN-FREE  The pressure cooker makes homemade apple butter a largely 
hands-off affair. The apples cook until very tender and are then simmered with brown 
sugar until thick. Slather on a hot biscuit or scone, or give as a thoughtful gift.
PREP: 10 MINUTES • PRESSURE: 30 MINUTES • TOTAL: 1 HOUR,  
30 MINUTES • PRESSURE LEVEL: HIGH • RELEASE: NATURAL
1. Add the apples and cider to the Instant Pot. Secure the lid.
2. Select Manual and cook at high pressure for 30 minutes.
3. Once cooking is complete, use a natural release. This will 
take about 15 minutes.
4. Add the lemon juice, brown sugar, cinnamon, cloves or 
nutmeg, and salt and stir. Select Sauté and cook, stirring 
occasionally, for about 30 minutes, or until thickened and 
a deep amber color.
5. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a 
week or in the freezer for up to 3 months. 
INGREDIENT TIP:  Use a mix of different apples for the best ﬂavor.
Per Serving (¼ cup)  Calories: 195; Total Carbohydrates: 51g;  
Saturated Fat: 0g; Trans Fat: 0g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 1g; Sodium: 27mgMAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS
4 pounds apples, peeled, 
cored, and roughly 
chopped
½ cup apple cider
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed 
lemon juice
1 cup brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch ground cloves or nutmeg
Pinch kosher salt
WORTH THE WAIT, FAMILY-FRIENDLY157
 
SOAKED 
UNSOAKEDPRESSURE RELEASE
BLACK BEANS 10 to 15 22 to 27 High Natural
BLACK-EYED PEAS 5 to 10 10 to 15 High Natural
CANNELLINI BEANS 10 to 15 30 to 35 High Natural
CHICKPEAS  
(GARBANZO BEANS)15 to 20 35 to 40 High Natural
KIDNEY BEANS 10 to 15 25 to 30 High Natural
LENTILS 12 to 17 High Natural
NAVY BEANS 10 to 15 20 to 25 High Natural
PINTO BEANS 10 to 15 25 to 30 High Natural
SOYBEANS, DRIED 20 to 25 30 to 35 High Natural
SPLIT PEAS 5 to 10 High NaturalMINUTES UNDER PRESSURE:Electric Pressure  Cooking Time Charts
The following charts provide approximate cooking times for a variety of 
foods using the Instant Pot. Slightly different ingredients, sizes, liquids, 
prep, and more can affect the cook time, so consider this a starting point.
BEANS AND LEGUMES
When cooking beans, always include a dose of oil to reduce foaming and 
use a natural release. Y our cook time will vary depending upon the age of 
your beans⅛u2014⅓dold beans take longer to soften.158 ELECTRIC  PRESSURE  COOKING  TIME  CHARTS  GRAINS
T o prevent foaming, add a small amount of oil or butter to the pot.  
Rinsing your grains before cooking also helps.
LIQUID PER 1 CUP 
OF GRAINSMINUTES UNDER 
PRESSUREPRESSURE RELEASE
ARBORIO AND  
CALROSE RICE2 cups 6 to 7 High Quick
BARLEY, PEARLED 3 cups 20 to 25 High Natural
BARLEY, WHOLE-GRAIN 3 cups 30 to 35 High Natural
BROWN RICE,  
LONG-GRAIN1¼ cups 20 to 24 HighNatural for 10 
minutes, then quick
BULGUR 3 cups 8 to 10 High Natural
FARRO, SEMI-PEARLED 2½ cups 10 to 12 High Natural
OATS, ROLLED 2 cups 5 HighNatural for 10 
minutes, then quick
OATS, STEEL-CUT 3 cups 5 to 10 High Natural
QUINOA 2 cups 1 to 2 HighNatural for 10 
minutes, then quick
WHITE RICE,  
LONG-GRAIN1½ cups 4 HighNatural for 10 
minutes, then quick
WILD RICE 3 cups 25 HighNatural for 10 
minutes, then quick159 ELECTRIC  PRESSURE  COOKING  TIME  CHARTS  MEAT
Consult your recipe of choice for more exact cooking times to prevent 
undercooking or overcooking your meat. 
MINUTES UNDER 
PRESSUREPRESSURE RELEASE
BEEF BONE-IN  
SHORT RIBS35 to 45 High Natural or quick
BEEF BRISKET 60 to 90 High Natural
BEEF ROUND, RUMP,  
OR POT ROAST40 to 70 High Natural
BEEF, STEW MEAT 
(CUBED)15 to 20 High Natural or quick
LAMB CHOPS 5 to 10 High Quick
LAMB, CUBED 10 to 15 High Quick
LAMB, GROUND 8 to 15 High Quick
PORK BABY BACK RIBS 25 to 30 High Natural
PORK CHOPS 6 to 10 High Quick
PORK, CUBED 10 to 20 High Quick
PORK LOIN 15 to 25 High Natural
PORK SAUSAGE (RAW) 8 to 11 High Natural
PORK SHOULDER  
OR BUTT ROAST45 to 60 High Natural160 ELECTRIC  PRESSURE  COOKING  TIME  CHARTS  POULTRY
Consult your recipe of choice for more exact cooking times to prevent 
undercooking or overcooking poultry. 
MINUTES UNDER 
PRESSUREPRESSURE RELEASE
CHICKEN BREAST, 
BONE-IN7 to 10 High Quick or natural
CHICKEN BREAST, 
BONELESS5 to 8 High Quick
CHICKEN THIGH,  
BONE-IN10 to 15 High Natural
CHICKEN WINGS 10 to 12 High Quick
DUCK QUARTERS, 
BONE-IN10 to 20 High Quick
TURKEY BREAST, 
BONELESS15 to 20 High Natural
TURKEY, GROUND 8 to 10 High Quick or natural161 ELECTRIC  PRESSURE  COOKING  TIME  CHARTS  SEAFOOD
Seafood is easily overcooked in the Instant Pot, so be conservative with 
your cook times. Y ou can always add cook time if needed.
MINUTES UNDER 
PRESSUREPRESSURE RELEASE
COD OR TILAPIA 3 to 5 Low Quick
CRAB 3 to 5 Low Quick
HALIBUT 6 to 7 Low Quick
MUSSELS 2 to 3 Low Quick
SALMON 5 to 7 Low Quick
SHRIMP 3 to 6 Low Quick162 ELECTRIC  PRESSURE  COOKING  TIME  CHARTS  VEGETABLES
Vegetable cooking times will vary depending on the size, whether they 
are being steamed or cooked in liquid, and more.
MINUTES UNDER 
PRESSUREPRESSURE RELEASE
ARTICHOKES,  
MEDIUM, WHOLE11 to 14 High Natural
BEETS, MEDIUM, WHOLE 15 to 20 High Quick
BRUSSELS SPROUTS, WHOLE 3 to 5 High Quick
BUTTERNUT SQUASH, 
1-INCH CHUNKS4 to 6 High Quick
CABBAGE, SLICED 3 to 5 High Quick
CARROTS, 1-INCH PIECES 2 to 4 High Quick
CORN ON THE COB 4 High Quick
GREEN BEANS 2 to 4 High Quick
POTATOES, 1-INCH CHUNKS 4 to 7 High Natural
POTATOES, BABY 5 to 10 High Natural
SPAGHETTI SQUASH, 
HALVED5 to 10 High Quick
SWEET POTATOES,  
MEDIUM, WHOLE10 to 15 High Quick
TOMATOES, CUT UP  
FOR SAUCE5 to 7 High Natural163The Dirty Dozen  and The Clean Fifteen
A nonprofit and environmental watchdog organization called the Environ -
mental Working Group (EWG) looks at data supplied by the US Depart -
ment of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) about pesticide residues. Each year it compiles a list of the lowest 
and highest pesticide loads found in commercial crops. Y ou can use these 
lists to decide which fruits and vegetables to buy organic to minimize your 
exposure to pesticides and which produce is considered safe enough to 
buy conventionally. This does not mean they are pesticide -free, though,  
so wash these fruits and vegetables thoroughly.
These lists change every year, so make sure you look up the most 
recent one before you fill your shopping cart. Y ou’ll find the most recent 
lists as well as a guide to pesticides in produce at EWG.org/FoodNews.
Apples
Celery
Cherry tomatoes 
Cucumbers
Grapes
Nectarines (imported)
Peaches
Potatoes
Snap peas (imported)
Spinach
Strawberries
Sweet bell peppers
* Kale/Collard greens
Hot peppersAsparagus
Avocados
Cabbage
Cantaloupes (domestic)
Cauliﬂower
Eggplants
Grapefruits
Kiwis
Mangos
Onions
Papayas
Pineapples
Sweet corn
Sweet peas (frozen)
Sweet potatoesThe Dirty Dozen The Clean Fifteen
* In addition to the dirty dozen, the EWG added two produce 
contaminated with highly toxic organo-phosphate insecticides.164Conversion Tables
US STANDARDUS STANDARD  
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 ﬂ. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 ﬂ. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 ﬂ. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 ﬂ. oz. 240 mL
1 ½ cups 12 ﬂ. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 ﬂ. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 ﬂ. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 ﬂ. oz. 4 L
US STANDARDMETRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
 cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
1 cup 177 mLFAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C)  
(APPROXIMATE)
250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 165°C
350°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°C
US STANDARDMETRIC  
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or  
1 pound455 gVOLUME EQUIVALENTS (LIQUID)
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (DRY)OVEN TEMPERATURES
WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS165Resources
 ›The Instant Pot website has more information about the device,  
recipes, and FAQs: InstantPot.com
 ›If you’ve lost your manual, download it from the Instant Pot website: 
InstantPot.com/benefits/specifications -and-manuals
 ›Laura Pazzaglia runs a pressure cooker website with recipes, how -tos, 
and an impressive cook time chart: HipPressureCooking.com
 ›Lorna Sass is the queen of pressure cooking, and has written several 
cookbooks on the subject. Some of her recipes are posted for free on 
her website: LornaSass.com
 ›If you want to get experimental with your pressure cooking, consult 
Modernist Cuisine and their progressive recipes: ModernistCuisine.com
 ›Jill Nussinow, aka The Veggie Queen, has written a couple of books 
about vegan pressure cooking and posts recipes on her website:  
TheVeggieQueen.com
 ›New electric pressure cooker recipes go up weekly on the Pressure 
Cooking T oday website, with a wide range of dishes and ingredients: 
PressureCookingT oday.com166Recipe Index
A
Apple and Cinnamon Oatmeal, 22
Apple Butter, 155
B
Baby Back Ribs, 118
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Barbecue Beef Brisket, 111
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Beef Stew with Mushrooms 
and Barley, 82
Beets with Goat Cheese, 44
Braised Cabbage, 42
Broccoli Pesto, 148
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47
Butternut Squash and Sausage 
Soup with Crispy Sage, 79
C
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Charred Corn on the Cob, 39
Cheese Grits, 67
Chicken and Dumplings, 98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Chickpea Curry, 54
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
Chorizo Chili, 85
Cinnamon Applesauce, 152
Cinnamon -Raisin French 
T oast Bake, 24–25
Classic Chicken Wings, 97Classic Marinara Sauce, 146
Corned Beef, 114
Corn Pudding, 40
Crab Legs with Lemon and 
Garlic Butter Sauce, 89
Cranberry Sauce, 151
Creamy Broccoli and Leek Soup, 74
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Creamy White Bean Dip, 58
D
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions, 107
E
Easy Apple Dumplings, 135
Easy Egg Salad, 37
Easy Hawaiian -Style Pork, 124
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip, 35
Eggs in Purgatory with Eggplant, 31
F
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice, 63
Five -Spice Boneless Beef  
Ribs, 113
French Onion Soup, 78
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
G
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Greek -Style Chicken with 
Potatoes and Peas, 96
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93H
Homemade Chicken Stock, 140
Homemade Hummus, 53
Homemade Ketchup, 144
Horseradish Mashed Potatoes, 48
K
Key Lime Cheesecake, 132–133
L
Lamb and Feta Meatballs with 
T omato and Olive Sauce, 117
Lamb Curry, 116
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Lentils with T omato 
and Pancetta, 57
Lighting -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Little Pumpkin Puddings, 130
Low -Country Boil, 90
M
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Mexican -Style Brown Rice, 60
Molten Brownie Pudding, 129
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
Mussels with Shallots and 
White Wine, 88
N
No-Fry Refried Beans, 55
O
One -Hour Matzo Ball Soup, 75–76
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120167 RECIPE INDEXOne -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Onion Gravy, 149
Orange and Lemon 
Marmalade, 153
Oxtail Ragu, 115
P
Peach and Blueberry Cobbler, 134
Pork Fried Rice, 122–123
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Pulled Pork, 119
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Q
Quick Chicken Tikka Masala, 101
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Quinoa T abbouleh, 64
R
“Roasted” Chicken with T omatoes 
and Mushrooms, 103
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65S
Sausage and Cheese Frittata, 29
Savory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Sea Salt Dulce de Leche, 137
Sesame Bok Choy, 41
Shrimp Scampi, 91
Soft-Boiled Eggs and Soldiers, 26
Southern -Style Black -Eyed Peas, 56
Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan 
and Pine Nuts, 45
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Steamed Artichokes with 
Dipping Sauce, 34
Steamed Edamame with Garlic, 36
Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Super -Fast Red Beans and Rice, 59
Sweet and Spicy Carrots, 43
Sweet and Tangy Barbecue Sauce, 145
Sweet Potatoes with Brown 
Sugar T opping, 49Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
T
Te r i y a k i  Po r k  L o i n ,  1 2 1
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
V
Vegan Black Bean Soup with 
Avocado Salsa, 70
Vegetable Stock, 141
Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga , 77
W
White Wine–Poached Pears 
with V anilla, 136
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66168Index
A
Anchovies
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Appetizers
Creamy White Bean Dip, 58
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip, 35
Steamed Edamame 
with Garlic, 36
Apples
Apple and Cinnamon 
Oatmeal, 22
Apple Butter, 155
Cinnamon Applesauce, 152
Easy Apple Dumplings, 135
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Arborio rice
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
Artichokes, Steamed, with 
Dipping Sauce, 34
Asparagus, Brown Butter 
and, Risotto, 61–62
Avocado, Vegan Black Bean 
Soup with, Salsa, 70
B
Baby Back Ribs, 118
Bacon
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Braised Cabbage, 42
“Roasted” Chicken 
with T omatoes and 
Mushrooms, 103Southern -Style Black -
Eyed Peas, 56
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Barbecue Beef Brisket, 111
Barley, Beef Stew with 
Mushrooms and, 82
Basil
Broccoli Pesto, 148
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Beans and grains
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Cheese Grits, 67
Chickpea Curry, 54
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Creamy White Bean Dip, 58
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 157, 158
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice, 63
Homemade Hummus, 53
Lentils with T omato 
and Pancetta, 57
Mexican -Style Brown Rice, 60
No-Fry Refried Beans, 55
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
Southern -Style Black -
Eyed Peas, 56
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Beef
Barbecue Beef Brisket, 111Beef Stew with Mushrooms 
and Barley, 82
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 159
Five -Spice Boneless 
Beef Ribs, 113
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Beef broth
Baby Back Ribs, 118
Beef Stew with Mushrooms 
and Barley, 82
Five -Spice Boneless 
Beef Ribs, 113
French Onion Soup, 78
Oxtail Ragu, 115
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Beer
Corned Beef, 114
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Beets with Goat Cheese, 44
Bell pepper. See also  Green bell 
pepper; Red bell pepper
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Black beans
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Black -eyed peas, Southern -Style, 56169 INDEXBlueberries
Peach and Blueberry 
Cobbler, 134
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154
Bok choy, Sesame, 41
Braised Cabbage, 42
Bread. See also  French bread;  
Rustic bread; Whole -wheat bread
Soft-Boiled Eggs and 
Soldiers, 26
Bread crumbs
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Breakfast
Apple and Cinnamon 
Oatmeal, 22
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Cinnamon -Raisin French 
T oast Bake, 24–25
Eggs in Purgatory with 
Eggplant, 31
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Sausage and Cheese  
Frittata, 29
Savory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Soft-Boiled Eggs and 
Soldiers, 26
Broccoli
Broccoli Pesto, 148
Creamy Broccoli and 
Leek Soup, 74
Broth. See Beef broth; 
Chicken broth; Fish 
broth; Vegetable broth
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47
Brown rice, Mexican -Style, 60
Butternut squashButternut Squash and Sausage 
Soup with Crispy Sage, 79
Root V egetable Medley, 46
C
Cabbage. See Green cabbage
Carrots
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Chicken and Dumplings, 
98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
Homemade Chicken 
Stock, 140
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Oxtail Ragu, 115
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Sweet and Spicy Carrots, 43
Vegetable Stock, 141
Cauliflower, Creamy, and 
Potato Soup, 72
Celery
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Chicken and Dumplings, 
98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Oxtail Ragu, 115
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Vegetable Stock, 141
Charred Corn on the Cob, 39
Cheddar cheese
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Cheese Grits, 67
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Sausage and Cheese Frittata, 29Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Cheese. See Cheddar cheese; 
Feta cheese; Goat cheese; 
Gruyère cheese; Monterey 
Jack cheese; Mozzarella 
cheese; Parmesan cheese
Cheese Grits, 67
Cherry tomatoes
Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Chicken
Chicken and Dumplings, 
98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Classic Chicken Wings, 97
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 160
Greek -Style Chicken with 
Potatoes and Peas, 96
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Quick Chicken Tikka 
Masala, 101
“Roasted” Chicken 
with T omatoes and 
Mushrooms, 103
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga,  77
Chicken bones
Homemade Chicken 
Stock, 140
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Chicken broth
Braised Cabbage, 42
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47170 INDEXButternut Squash and Sausage 
Soup with Crispy Sage, 79
Chicken and Dumplings, 
98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Chickpea Curry, 54
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Corned Beef, 114
Creamy Broccoli and 
Leek Soup, 74
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions, 107
French Onion Soup, 78
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93
Lentils with T omato 
and Pancetta, 57
Mexican -Style Brown Rice, 60
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
Mussels with Shallots 
and White Wine, 88
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
Onion Gravy, 149
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
Savory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Shrimp Scampi, 91
Southern -Style Black -
Eyed Peas, 56
Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
Chick peas
Chickpea Curry, 54
Homemade Hummus, 53Chili
Chorizo Chili, 85
Lighting -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Chipotles in adobo
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
Chocolate chips
Molten Brownie Pudding, 129
Chorizo Chili, 85
Christmas cooking, 19
Cinnamon
Apple and Cinnamon 
Oatmeal, 22
Cinnamon Applesauce, 152
Cinnamon -Raisin French 
T oast Bake, 24–25
Classic Chicken Wings, 97
Classic Marinara Sauce, 146
Clean Fifteen, 163
Cocoa powder
Molten Brownie Pudding, 129
Coconut
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Coconut milk
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Collard greens
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
Condensed milk
Sea Salt Dulce de Leche, 137
Conversion Tables, 164
Corn
Charred Corn on the Cob, 39
Chickpea Curry, 54
Corn Pudding, 40
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Low -Country Boil, 90
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Corned Beef, 114
Corn Pudding, 40Corn tortillas
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93
Crab Legs with Lemon and 
Garlic Butter Sauce, 89
Cranberry Sauce, 151
Cream cheese
Key Lime Cheesecake, 132–133
Creamy Broccoli and Leek Soup, 74
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Creamy White Bean Dip, 58
Cucumbers
Quinoa T abbouleh, 64
D
Dessert
Carrot Cake Rice Pudding, 128
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
Easy Apple Dumplings, 135
Key Lime Cheesecake, 132–133
Little Pumpkin Puddings, 130
Molten Brownie Pudding, 129
Peach and Blueberry 
Cobbler, 134
Sea Salt Dulce de Leche, 137
White Wine–Poached 
Pears with Vanilla, 136
Dirty Dozen, 163
Duck
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions, 107
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 160
E
Easy Apple Dumplings, 135
Easy Egg Salad, 37
Easy Hawaiian -Style Pork, 124
Edamame, Steamed, with Garlic, 36
Eggplant
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip, 35
Eggs in Purgatory with 
Eggplant, 31171 INDEXEggs
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Cinnamon -Raisin French 
T oast Bake, 24–25
Easy Egg Salad, 37
Eggs in Purgatory with 
Eggplant, 31
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice, 63
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Sausage and Cheese Frittata, 29
Savory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Soft-Boiled Eggs and 
Soldiers, 26
Electric pressure cooker, 
cleaning and caring for, 17
Electric pressure cooking, 
step -by-step, 10–12
Electric Pressure Cooking 
Time Charts, 157–161
beans and legumes, 157
grains, 158
meat, 159
poultry, 160
seafood, 161
vegetables, 162
F
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice, 63
Feta cheese
Lamb and Feta Meatballs with 
T omato and Olive Sauce, 117
Fish broth
Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Five -Spice Boneless Beef Ribs, 113
Fourth of July cooking, 19
French bread
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
French Onion Soup, 78
French Onion Soup, 78
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71Frittata
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Sausage and Cheese Frittata, 29
Fruits. See also  specific fruits
Clean Fifteen, 163
Dirty Dozen, 163
G
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Goat cheese, Beets with, 44
Grains. See Beans and grains
Greek -Style Chicken with 
Potatoes and Peas, 96
Green bell pepper
Chickpea Curry, 54
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Lamb and Feta Meatballs with 
T omato and Olive Sauce, 117
Green cabbage
Braised Cabbage, 42
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93
Grits, Cheese, 67
Ground beef
Chorizo Chili, 85
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
Gruyère cheese
French Onion Soup, 78
H
High altitude, pressure 
cooking at, 11
Holiday pressure cooking, 19
Homemade Chicken Stock, 140
Homemade Hummus, 53
Homemade Ketchup, 144
Horseradish Mashed Potatoes, 48
I
Instant Pot, 12–14
Bean/chili function, 13
Delayed Cooking function, 14
Manual setting, 12
Multigrain function, 13Porridge function, 13
Poultry function, 13
Pressure Key, 12
Rice function, 14
safety tips for, 14
Sauté function, 13
slow cooking, 13
Soup function, 14
Steam function, 13
using, 16–17
Yog u r t  f u n c t i o n ,  1 4
J
Jalapeño pepper
Chorizo Chili, 85
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Jasmine rice
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Jewish holiday cooking, 19
K
Kale
Chickpea Curry, 54
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
Key Lime Cheesecake, 132–133
Kielbasa
Low -Country Boil, 90
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
L
Labor day cooking, 19
Lamb
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 159
Lamb and Feta Meatballs  
with T omato and 
Olive Sauce, 117
Lamb Curry, 116
Leeks, Creamy Broccoli 
and, Soup, 74
Legumes, electric pressure 
cooking times for, 157172 INDEXLemons
Orange and Lemon 
Marmalade, 153
Lentils
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Lentils with T omato 
and Pancetta, 57
Lighting -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Little Pumpkin Puddings, 130
Low -Country Boil, 90
M
Macaroni
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Matzo meal
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Meatballs
Lamb and Feta Meatballs with 
T omato and Olive Sauce, 117
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Memorial Day cooking, 19
Mexican -Style Brown Rice, 60
Molten Brownie Pudding, 129
Monterey Jack cheese
Green Chicken Enchiladas, 93
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Mozzarella cheese
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
Mushrooms
Beef Stew with Mushrooms 
and Barley, 82
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions, 107
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
“Roasted” Chicken 
with T omatoes and 
Mushrooms, 103Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Vegetable Stock, 141
Mussels with Shallots and 
White Wine, 88
N
No-Fry Refried Beans, 55
O
Oats
Apple and Cinnamon 
Oatmeal, 22
Okra
Chickpea Curry, 54
Olives
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
One -Hour Matzo Ball Soup, 75–76
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Onions. See also  Red onions
Barbecue Beef Brisket, 111
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Chicken and Dumplings, 
98–99
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Classic Marinara Sauce, 146
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Duck with Mushrooms 
and Onions, 107
Easy Hawaiian -Style Pork, 124
French Onion Soup, 78
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Homemade Chicken 
Stock, 140
Homemade Ketchup, 144
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
Onion Gravy, 149Oxtail Ragu, 115
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Sweet and T angy 
Barbecue Sauce, 145
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Vegetable Stock, 141
Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga,  77
Orange and Lemon 
Marmalade, 153
Orange juice
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
Cranberry Sauce, 151
Oxtail Ragu, 115
P
Pancetta, Lentils with 
To m a t o  a n d ,  5 7
Parmesan cheese
Charred Corn on the Cob, 39
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Parsnips
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Pasta. See Macaroni; Penne pasta
Peach and Blueberry Cobbler, 134
Pears, White Wine–Poached, 
with V anilla, 136173 INDEXPeas
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Greek -Style Chicken with 
Potatoes and Peas, 96
Pork Fried Rice, 122–123
Penne pasta
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Peppers. See Bell pepper; Green 
bell pepper; Jalapeño pepper; 
Poblano peppers; Red bell pepper
Pinto beans
Chorizo Chili, 85
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
No-Fry Refried Beans, 55
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
Poblano peppers
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Pork
Baby Back Ribs, 118
Easy Hawaiian -Style Pork, 124
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 159
Pork Fried Rice, 122–123
Pulled Pork, 119
Te r i y a k i  Po r k  L o i n ,  1 2 1
Potatoes
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Greek -Style Chicken with 
Potatoes and Peas, 96
Horseradish Mashed 
Potatoes, 48
Low -Country Boil, 90
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83Pressure cooker
cleaning and caring for, 17
invention of, 9
reasons for using, 9
Pressure cooking
benefits of, 10
cooking time charts, 157–162
at high altitude, 11
step -by-step, 10–12
Puff pastry
Chicken Pot Pie, 94–95
Pulled Pork, 119
Pumpkin, Little, Puddings, 130
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Q
Quick Chicken Tikka Masala, 101
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Quinoa T abbouleh, 64
R
Raspberries
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154
Recipes
converting favorite  
recipes, 15
regarding the, 18
Red bell pepper
Chorizo Chili, 85
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Potato and Pepper Frittata, 30
Quick Zucchini  
Ratatouille, 38
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Red kidney beans
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
Red onions
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Te r i y a k i  Po r k  L o i n ,  1 2 1Red wine
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
One -Pot Pasta Bolognese, 112
Oxtail Ragu, 115
Rice. See Arborio rice; Brown 
rice; Jasmine rice; White rice
Rice noodles
Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga,  77
Risotto
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
“Roasted” Chicken with T omatoes 
and Mushrooms, 103
Roasted red peppers
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip, 35
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Rustic bread
Eggs in Purgatory with 
Eggplant, 31
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65
S
Safety tips, for Instant Pot, 14
Sage, Butternut Squash and 
Sausage Soup with Crispy, 79
St. Patrick’s Day cooking, 19
Salad, Easy Egg, 37
Sandwiches
Pulled Pork, 119
Sauces. See Stocks and sauces
Sausage
Butternut Squash and Sausage 
Soup with Crispy Sage, 79
German Sausages with 
Peppers and Onions, 125
Low -Country Boil, 90
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
One -Pot Beans, Sausage, 
and Greens, 120
Sausage and Cheese Frittata, 29174 INDEXSavory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Seafood
Crab Legs with Lemon and 
Garlic Butter Sauce, 89
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 161
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Low -Country Boil, 90
Mussels with Shallots 
and White Wine, 88
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Shrimp Scampi, 91
Steamed Fish and  
Vegg ies, 92
Sea Salt Dulce de Leche, 137
Semisweet chocolate
Chocolate and Orange 
Bread Pudding, 131
Sesame Bok Choy, 41
Shallots, Mussels with, 
and White Wine, 88
Shrimp
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Low -Country Boil, 90
Shrimp Scampi, 91
Soft-Boiled Eggs and Soldiers, 26
Soups
Butternut Squash and  
Sausage Soup with 
Crispy Sage, 79
Creamy Broccoli and 
Leek Soup, 74
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
French Onion Soup, 78
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
One -Hour Matzo Ball 
Soup, 75–76
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga,  77
Southern -Style Black -Eyed Peas, 56
Spaghetti Squash with Parmesan 
and Pine Nuts, 45
Spiced Coconut Chicken 
and Rice, 102
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Spinach, Lentil and, Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Squash. See Butternut squash; 
Spaghetti squash
Steamed Artichokes with 
Dipping Sauce, 34
Steamed Edamame with  
Garlic, 36
Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Stew
Beef Stew with Mushrooms 
and Barley, 82
Lentil and Spinach Stew 
with Shrimp, 81
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
Stocks and sauces
Apple Butter, 155
Beef Bone Broth, 142
Broccoli Pesto, 148
Cinnamon Applesauce, 152
Classic Marinara Sauce, 146
Cranberry Sauce, 151
Homemade Chicken 
Stock, 140
Homemade Ketchup, 144
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Onion Gravy, 149
Orange and Lemon 
Marmalade, 153
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Spicy Chicken Bone Broth, 143
Sweet and T angy 
Barbecue Sauce, 145
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154
Vegetable Stock, 141
Strawberries
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Sunday Pot Roast, 110
Super -Fast Red Beans  
and Rice, 59
Sweet and Spicy Carrots, 43
Sweet and Tangy Barbecue 
Sauce, 145
Sweet potatoes
Sweet Potatoes with Brown 
Sugar T opping, 49
Sweet Potato, Sausage, 
and Kale Soup, 80
T
Te r i y a k i  Po r k  L o i n ,  1 2 1
Thai chile
Mango -Apple Chutney, 150
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Thanksgiving cooking, 19
To m a t o e s .  See also  Cherry tomatoes
Barbecue Beef Brisket, 111
Chorizo Chili, 85
Classic Marinara Sauce, 146
Eggs in Purgatory with 
Eggplant, 31
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
Homemade Ketchup, 144
Lamb and Feta Meatballs with 
T omato and Olive Sauce, 117
Lamb Curry, 116
Lentils with T omato 
and Pancetta, 57
Lightning -Fast Veggie Chili, 84
Mexican -Style Brown Rice, 60
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Oxtail Ragu, 115
Puttanesca Sauce, 147
Quick Chicken Tikka 
Masala, 101
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Quinoa T abbouleh, 64
“Roasted” Chicken 
with T omatoes and 
Mushrooms, 103175 INDEXSweet and T angy 
Barbecue Sauce, 145
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Tr i pl e -Berry Jam, 154
Turkey
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 160
One -Pot Penne and Turkey 
Meatballs, 106
Stuffed Turkey Breast, 104–105
Turnips
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Tuscan Chicken Stew, 83
V
Vegetable broth
Braised Cabbage, 42
Brown Butter and Asparagus 
Risotto, 61–62
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47
Butternut Squash and Sausage 
Soup with Crispy Sage, 79
Chickpea Curry, 54
Chipotle Black Beans, 52
Creamy Broccoli and 
Leek Soup, 74
Creamy Cauliflower and 
Potato Soup, 72
Fresh Tomato Soup, 71
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Rustic Herb Stuffing, 65Steamed Fish and Veggies, 92
Thai -Style Corn Chowder, 73
Vegan Black Bean Soup 
with Avocado Salsa, 70
Vegetables. See also  
specific vegetables
Beets with Goat Cheese, 44
Braised Cabbage, 42
Brown Butter Fingerling 
Potatoes, 47
Charred Corn on the Cob, 39
Clean Fifteen, 163
Corn Pudding, 40
Dirty Dozen, 163
Easy Egg Salad, 37
Eggplant and Roasted 
Red Pepper Dip, 35
electric pressure cooking 
times for, 162
Horseradish Mashed 
Potatoes, 48
Quick Zucchini Ratatouille, 38
Root V egetable Medley, 46
Sesame Bok Choy, 41
Spaghetti Squash with 
Parmesan and Pine Nuts, 45
Steamed Artichokes with 
Dipping Sauce, 34
Steamed Edamame 
with Garlic, 36
Sweet and Spicy Carrots, 43
Sweet Potatoes with Brown 
Sugar T opping, 49Vegan Black Bean Soup with 
Avocado Salsa, 70
Vegetable Stock, 141
Vietnamese Chicken Noodle 
Soup Pho Ga,  77
W
White beans
Creamy White Bean Dip, 58
White rice
Faster -than -Fast -Food 
Fried Rice, 63
Pork Fried Rice, 122–123
Savory Breakfast Porridge, 23
Super -Fast Red Beans 
and Rice, 59
White wine
Mushroom and Chicken 
Sausage Risotto, 100
Mussels with Shallots 
and White Wine, 88
Shrimp Scampi, 91
White Wine–Poached 
Pears with Vanilla, 136
Whole -wheat bread
Bacon and Egg Strata, 27–28
Whole -Wheat Creamy 
Mac and Cheese, 66
Wine. See Red wine; White wine
Z
Zucchini, Quick, Ratatouille, 38176About the Author
Laurel Randolph  is a Los Angeles -based food writer and recipe 
developer who has contributed food articles to Paste Magazine ,  
Wise Bread , and Serious Eats. In her free time, you can usually find  
her browsing a farmers’ market, eating tacos or Vietnamese food, or 
cooking up a storm at home. Learn more at laurelrandolph.com.