xIntroduction
Italian cooking is one of the most loved cuisines in the world. And there 
are good reasons for that. The ingredients in Italian dishes are fresh, the 
recipes are uncomplicated, and the spirit behind Italian culture is warm 
and inviting. I’m second-generation Italian American. My grandparents 
came from Italy to New Y ork City; my parents grew up in Brooklyn, and I was 
born in Brooklyn. My mother learned to cook from her mother, from her aunt, 
from her mother-in-law, and from our upstairs neighbor whom I called “ Aunt 
Mary, ” a Sicilian friend who became my mom’s mentor. Generations of recipes 
were passed from my mom’s hands to mine. I’ve lived in Italy, where my Italian 
American heritage merged with Euro-Italian traditions and the everyday life 
of Italians. I’ve cooked alongside Italian home cooks in many regions of Italy. 
At home, I teach Italian cooking to my students, and also take them to Italy to 
experience the culture firsthand. The art of the Italian table has many layers. 
There is a spirit of giving, of cooking with tenderness and love, of sharing with 
family and friends, and of making an everyday meal a festive event. Dive into 
these recipes and become a member of the Italian table—because the soul of 
Italian culture is in its food.
Eat Like an Italian
The life of an Italian revolves around moments of eating. For breakfast, Italians 
keep it light: a quick espresso from their stovetop espresso pots and some 
crunchy bread or focaccia. But there’s more happy munching before lunch. A 
mid-morning snack might be a fast piece of pizza from a take-out pizza stand, 
or maybe a tramezzino— a small sandwich-snack filled with mozzarella and 
tomato—from the corner “bar. ” By the time noon arrives, Italians are hungry 
again. Lunch, or pranzo , is the main meal of the day and often consists of two or 
more courses: primo piatto  (first course)—pasta, soup, or risotto—and secondo 
piatto  (second course)—meat, fish, or seafood. The meal is accompanied by 
contorni— vegetables like sautéed spinach or roasted potatoes. Lunch is typically 
capped with something sweet but simple, like fresh fruit. The irresistible pastries INTRODUCTION  | xi    and cakes of Italy are usually reserved for special occasions or Sundays. Evening 
dinner is called cena and is not as big as lunch. A robust soup is a perfect cena . Italian 
home cooks buy food daily so that ingredients are always fresh. On Sunday after -
noons, families gather at home or at special restaurants for long, luscious meals. Long 
conversations at the table are as much a part of the meal as the platters of sumptuous 
delights.
The Heart of Italian Cuisine
Italians have a reputation for being warm and welcoming, but they are also pragma -
tists, especially in the kitchen. This is what makes Italian cooking fully focused on 
seasonal ingredients. Why cook with an ingredient that isn’t readily available? That 
wouldn’t be very practical. So, when it’s artichoke season, menus in restaurants and 
home kitchens are full of artichokes. When their season is over, artichokes disappear 
from the spotlight and the next seasonal star, like eggplant, takes the stage.
Using simple techniques, Italian home cooks create their recipes based on a few 
fresh ingredients and personal taste, and there’s no shortage of variations. Ingredients 
are important, but the execution of recipes invites personalized input. Do you prefer 
more garlic? Would you like it to be spicier? Do you love lots of cheese? As you work 
your way through the dishes in this book, indulge in the cooking motto of Italian 
kitchens: Quanto basta?  (“How much? Whatever you think is enough. ”). I developed 
these recipes with my own preferred balance of flavors in mind, based on my Italian 
American heritage and experiences cooking in Italy, but feel free to tweak them as you 
like. Y ou’ll find that each recipe in this book is easy to follow and fun to execute. I’ve 
identified those recipes that are dairy-free, gluten-free, vegetarian/vegan, one-pan, or 
quickly made in under 30 minutes, but check ingredient packaging to make sure the 
product you’re buying doesn’t contain any unexpected dairy, gluten, or meat. 
As you master the straightforward methods of this style of cooking, you’ll soon 
discover how easy it is to enjoy the enticing aromas and irresistible pleasures of Italian 
cuisine any night of the week.Eggplant Parmigiana,  
page 92
1    1
Italian Essentials
In this chapter, you’ll learn about key staple ingredients that Italians incorporate 
into everyday dishes. Once you stock your kitchen with an assortment of these 
fresh vegetables, cheeses, cured meats, and pantry items, deliciously authentic 
home-cooked Italian meals are just minutes away. Since the recipes in this book 
create maximum flavor with minimal ingredients, it’s worth it to buy high-quality 
products whenever possible. Trust me: You’ll taste the difference.2 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKKnowing Y our Ingredients
Do not be overwhelmed by the length of this list; it is by no means a prompt to go out 
and buy all of these things at once. But it may be helpful to familiarize yourself with 
the principal ingredients of Italian cuisine before diving into the recipes.
Anchovies:  You can find anchovies in small tins filled with oil or in jars imported from 
Italy. The fish are so small that processors don’t even remove the bones before packing 
them into tins or jars, and their salty, assertive flavor makes a great base for sauces. 
Anchovy is also the distinctive ingredient in Caesar salad dressing (see page 37). In 
Italy, you will also find fresh anchovies that are bright white, filleted, marinated, and 
very mild in flavor.
Arugula:  This salad green has a pleasing peppery taste. It’s perfect in a salad all by 
itself, but wonderful, too, as part of a mixed salad with other lettuces. You’ll often find 
baby arugula in stores (with leaves about 2 inches long), triple-washed and ready to go. 
Toss a few leaves on top of a cheesy crostini to add some green and crunch. In Europe, 
arugula is sometimes called “rocket, ” probably from the French roquette , also a type 
of arugula.
Basil:  I think of basil as the national herb of Italy. Its deeply fragrant aroma and 
flowery, savory flavor seem to embody all of Italy. It originated in the Ligurian region, 
where it is called Genoese basil. Basil is one of the star ingredients in Neapolitan Pizza 
Margherita, along with buffalo mozzarella and San Marzano tomatoes, and this trio of 
ingredients represent the three colors of the Italian flag (green, white, and red). Basil 
is also the mainstay in traditional pesto. Note that this herb discolors when cut with a 
knife. When possible, tear the leaves with your fingers.
Bay leaves:  I’ll never forget the first time I met a fresh bay leaf. It came from a laurel 
tree in the backyard of a villa in the Italian Riviera. Bay leaves are laurel leaves. My hosts 
placed a two-foot laurel branch into their wood-burning, outdoor oven to flavor a beef 
roast. Bay leaves have a woodsy, old-world taste. You usually find them dried, but some -
times a specialty food market will carry fresh ones.
Beans:  The two beans you often find in Italian dishes are cannellini beans and chick -
peas (also known as garbanzo, or ceci in Italian). Cannellini are basically white kidney 
beans, but a little smaller and more delicate in flavor. They can be puréed as a spread for 
crostini, and they’re a main ingredient in Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini Beans (page 28). 
Chickpeas shine in simple pasta dishes or on their own with onion and herbs.ITALIAN  ESSENTIALS  | 3    
Bread crumbs:  This humble ingredient adds texture and flavor to countless Italian 
dishes, from hearty stuffing and meatballs to crunchy toppings. Buy unseasoned bread 
crumbs and add any flavoring you like. I love using panko bread crumbs for coating 
fish and meats before frying or baking, as panko’s bigger crumbs create an especially 
satisfying crust.
Broth:  The base of any risotto is a good broth. You can make your own broth by simmer -
ing chicken, meat, and/or vegetables in water, but if you don’t have time, store-bought 
broth is a fine alternative. If you buy premade broth, make sure to choose a low-sodium 
brand so you can control the amount of salt in the finished dish.
Burrata:  Though it looks like an unassuming ball of fresh mozzarella, when you cut 
into a ball of burrata, a creamy cascade of soft cheese spills forth. Burrata is perfect for 
spreading on a crusty slice of bread or serving with an antipasto platter. It also goes well 
with salumi  and olives, and I love it as a topping for pizza. Burrata hails from the Puglia 
region of Italy, where it’s made fresh daily.
Capers:  Capers are flower buds that haven’t yet opened. Their flavor is pungent and a 
bit sharp, like little pops of sunshine, and they are most famously grown in Pantelleria, 
an island off of Sicily. In the United States, capers are commonly sold brined in jars, but 
you can also find them packed with salt in cans at Italian specialty markets. I love them 
in tuna salad, mixed into mayonnaise, on roasted fish, and as the finishing touch for 
Chicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers (page 100).
Cornmeal:  Centuries ago, when Italians first started growing corn, it was considered 
food for livestock. Corn is still used for livestock today, but along the way, Italians 
decided to mill the corn into a coarse or fine meal to cook like porridge. This cooked 
cornmeal is called polenta, and it is delicious paired with savory vegetables and meats. 
When you chill polenta, it thickens into a cake-like consistency. And in this thickened 
state, you can cut the polenta into slices and fry it in olive oil for another delicious varia -
tion. Though you can find products marketed as polenta at the grocery store, I get great 
results from simple (and much cheaper) cornmeal.
Escarole:  In the spectrum of flavors, Italians have a particular affection for bitter. 
Escarole is one of those slightly bitter Italian greens, commonly used in Italian Wedding 
Soup with Mini Meatballs (page 29). I also love to use the pale-green inner leaves of raw 
escarole in salads. Escarole leaves have a denser crunch than lettuce, and they’re buttery 
and slightly tangy in flavor.4 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKEspresso coffee:  Italian coffee is roasted until it is very dark—darker than a French 
roast. Every Italian family has a stovetop espresso pot for their morning coffee. These 
little metal pots last forever and are passed down through generations. Bialetti pots are 
the Italian favorite, and I love the Lavazza brand of coffee. Espresso is a key ingredient 
in Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and Mascarpone (page 137).
Flour:  Where would pasta and pizza be without flour? All-purpose flour is fine to use 
in the recipes in this book. But in Italy, the “all-purpose” flour you’ll find in the markets, 
and on home-kitchen shelves, is labeled “00. ” Doppio zero  (00) flour is more finely 
milled than American all-purpose flour, and it is made with a different type of wheat.  
If you find 00 flour, feel free to use it instead of all-purpose flour in equal proportions 
for the recipes in this book.
Garlic:  In the south of Italy, garlic is used more often, and in more abundance, than 
in the north. Garlic has a great punch of flavor that’s strongest when raw. Roasting 
and sautéing softens its strength and brings a more complex presence to a dish. I sauté 
whole cloves in the beginning of a tomato sauce, but then take the garlic out at the end. 
Contrary to popular belief, most Italians do not enjoy actual pieces of garlic in their 
food.
Grana Padano:  The processing and drying process of Grana Padano cheese (as well as 
the flavor) is similar to that of its big brother Parmigiano-Reggiano, but Grana Padano 
is not aged as long, and regulations for its production are more relaxed. Cut it into 
chunks for snacking, or grate it finely to sprinkle over pasta or risotto. 
Herbs:  Fresh herbs are your best friend for almost any dish. Add them at the end as 
edible garnish, and you’ll elevate your finished recipe without much fuss. Most herbs 
lose their essence when dried, winding up almost flavorless (like dried basil and pars -
ley). But there are exceptions: both oregano and thyme become more intense in flavor 
when they are dried. ITALIAN  ESSENTIALS  | 5    
D.O.P.
You sometimes see this designation on Italian food product labels. It stands 
for Denominazione di Origine Protetta , which translates to “Protected Desig -
nation of Origin.” Cheeses and cured meats such as Parmigiano-Reggiano and 
prosciutto di Parma, and even baked goods such as Altamura bread—can carry 
this classification. When you see “D.O.P .” on a food label, you know that the prod -
uct was produced in an official region of Italy and is not a copy manufactured in 
another country.
Lemons:  Lemons grow to grapefruit size all over the region of Campania, Italy. So, 
of course, these citrus fruits have made their way into the recipes of that area, such as 
limoncello , a sweet, lemon-flavored after-dinner drink, and Amalfi Lemony Tuna Capel -
lini (page 64). Lemons add a bright acidic element to many dishes, and lemon juice is 
the perfect Italian ingredient for salad dressings.
Mascarpone:  I call mascarpone the cream cheese of Italy. It’s not as tangy as American 
cream cheese, but it has a similar texture: dense and full-bodied. It’s the rich ingredient 
in tiramisu and a fabulous addition to cheesecake. Mascarpone is originally from the 
Lombardia region in the north of Italy, where Milan is the capital. In general, cream and 
butter are more commonly used in northern Italy than in southern Italy.
Mozzarella:  This mildly flavored white cheese comes in two different forms—fresh 
and low-moisture—and is typically made with cow’s milk or the milk of water buffaloes 
raised in Italy ( mozzarella di bufala ). Fresh mozzarella is soft and wet, sold in balls 
either wrapped in plastic or floating in containers filled with water. Low-moisture mozza -
rella has a denser consistency and tangier, saltier flavor than fresh, and it is sold in blocks 
wrapped in plastic. I prefer the softer fresh mozzarella for snacking and baked pasta 
dishes. The harder low-moisture mozzarella is good for grating and sprinkling on pizza.
Nutmeg:  Nutmeg is most often used in northern Italian cooking. The brightly pun -
gent nut is lightly grated into cream sauces like béchamel, over risotto dishes, or into 
polenta. It’s also used with butternut squash to flavor fillings for ravioli, and in very 
small doses in some desserts.
6 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKEXTRA-VIRGIN OLIVE OIL
EVOO: It’s the foundation of almost all Italian cooking. Full of healthy antioxi -
dants and high in monounsaturated fats, olive oil is the fundamental ingredient 
of a Mediterranean diet. Olive trees are abundant in Italy—especially in the region 
of Puglia. The flavor of olive oil is subtle, yet distinctive, and defines the charac -
ter of Italian cooking. Extra-virgin olive oil is oil that is made from cold-pressed 
olives, extracted without heat or chemical processing. I cook with extra-virgin 
olive oil for everything (except for the occasional deep frying, when I use canola 
oil). Sometimes you’ll see “boutique” extra-virgin olive oils in slim, pretty bottles. 
This oil tastes super-concentrated (and delicious). I wouldn’t use it for every -
day cooking, but more as a finishing oil, on salads, or as a dip for vegetables 
and bread. Everyday-use brands, like Colavita or California Olive Ranch, can be 
found in most supermarkets. But more often, I prefer the cost-value of some 
store brands, like Whole Foods 365, Traders Joe’s President Reserve, and World 
Market Extra-Virgin Olive Oil. Sometimes, an extra-virgin olive oil that is packed in 
Italy can be a blend of oils from Spain, Greece, and Italy. The bottles are usually 
marked with this information.
Onions:  These hearty alliums serve as flavor workhorses for many different dishes. 
Sautéed at the beginning of a tomato sauce, braise, or risotto, onions tend to melt from 
view but leave behind a perfect complexity and essence. In certain recipes, I like to swap 
out onions for one of their cousins, shallots or leeks. Both of these alternate alliums do 
the same job as onions, but they offer slightly different flavors.
Oregano:  This is the first herb I ever learned to use in the first recipe I ever attempted 
on my own: dried oregano sprinkled on a tomato salad with olive oil and chopped 
onion. Most often used dried, oregano is a great pizza-flavor ingredient, and it is key to 
the taste of a tomato sauce meant to be served with seafood. Though it’s more potent 
when dried, oregano is also excellent as a fresh herb.
Pancetta:  I think of pancetta as the bacon of Italy. Pancetta is not smoked like bacon; 
it is simply cured pork belly seasoned with salt. You can sometimes get it sliced at deli 
counters, or sold already diced in packages. Just like bacon, it adds big flavor. Guanciale, 
which is closely related, is cured pig’s cheek or jowl, and the featured ingredient in Spa -
ghetti alla Carbonara  on page 61. Guanciale and pancetta can be used interchangeably 
(as can bacon).
ITALIAN  ESSENTIALS  | 7    
Parmigiano-Reggiano:  It’s right there in the name: true Parmigiano comes from 
Parma. The cheesemaking process for this classic Italian variety is generations-old 
and regulated by the government. Parmigiano is creamy, salty, a bit nutty, and can be 
eaten in chunks or grated over pasta. One important note: true Parmigiano-Reggiano 
is expensive, so I often opt for grated domestic Parmesan cheese instead. Certain 
American brands come close to the authentic taste (I recommend the Cello brand 
from Costco).
Parsley:  Parsley is the herb “thread” that weaves through much of Italian cooking. It 
tastes green— you know it’s in the dish, but it stands back and lets the other ingredients 
shine. Buy fresh Italian parsley, which is the flat-leaf variety. It has more flavor and is 
readily available in most supermarkets. Parsley makes appearances in meatballs and 
stuffing, and is sautéed in sauces and sprinkled on cooked meats, fish, and pastas. I also 
use it in pesto and salsa verde.
Pasta:  Fresh pasta can be made with flour and eggs or just flour and water, depending 
on the region. In Sicily, they use semolina flour, which gives the pasta a slightly yellow 
tint. But most Italians use dry pasta—called pastasciutta —for their everyday meals. In 
the stores I like to buy pastas that are labeled “product of Italy. ” Italian producers use 
specific wheat varieties and mill their grains differently to create pastas that hold up 
well during cooking and don’t become pasty.
Pecorino:  Pecorino cheese is most often grated for pasta, in the same way as 
Parmigiano-Reggiano. But pecorino is sharper in flavor, a little saltier, and a favorite 
for many Roman pasta dishes like Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe (page 62). It’s a sheep’s milk 
cheese— pecora  means sheep in Italian. Pecorino Romano is produced in the Lazio 
region, and Pecorinio Sardo is from the island of Sardinia. The longer they are aged, the 
sharper the flavor. Young pecorino is softer and creamier than longer-aged versions.
Peperoncino:  This is the spicy pepper used to make the crushed red pepper flakes you 
find in shaker jars at most pizzerias. They’re small red peppers, and, in home kitchens 
throughout Italy, you’ll usually see a dozen or so strung together to hang and dry. Cooks 
can just break off a pod and crumble it into their dishes. The dried pepper and its seeds 
are fiery hot and the perfect ingredient to put a spicy edge on any dish.
Pine nuts:  Pine nuts, or pinoli , grow in the center of pinecones from the Pinus pinea  
tree. When the pinecone drops and dries, and its scales open a bit, the tiny pine nuts 
fall out. At this stage they’re coated in dark brown shells. It’s not easy to get them out of 
these shells, and that’s part of the reason why pine nuts are so expensive. Each little nut 
is an explosion of precious flavor. Use them in both savory and sweet dishes.8 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKProsciutto:  This is a full hind leg of pork, salted, air-dried, and aged. The most tradi -
tional version is Prosciutto di Parma  from the region of Emilia-Romagna. This Parma 
prosciutto has a D.O.P . designation, meaning that it is government checked to make sure 
the ham is from local pigs and is cured according to traditional standards. The cured 
version is called prosciutto crudo  (meaning “raw”); the baked version, which is pink 
like boiled ham, is prosciutto cotto . Prosciutto is best when sliced paper thin. Its flavor 
is gentle, with both sweet and salty notes.
Rice:  Italians have their own preferred rice varieties, some of which are grown right in 
Italy. The prized short-grain rice, arborio, is used in risotto and Italian rice dishes like 
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and Peas)  (page 45). Arborio has a dense starch center that is 
released during the constant stirring of the risotto process. This is what makes risotto 
so creamy. During cooking, arborio rice grains still maintain their structure; they don’t 
become soft and mushy. Other Italian short-grain rice varieties are carnaroli  and via-
lone nano .
Ricotta:  This lush, creamy ingredient is a whey cheese, meaning that it’s created using 
the leftover whey from the production of other cheeses. It’s a favorite for ravioli fillings, 
lasagna, and other baked pastas. It’s also the key element of the iconic Italian dessert 
cannoli. You can buy great-quality ricotta from any supermarket. My favorite brands 
are Polly-O and Galbani. Get the whole-milk variety, as it’s richer and more authen -
tic tasting.
Rosemary:  The leaves of this herb look like pine needles; run your fingers over a sprig, 
and it will release a heady, evergreen aroma. Rosemary leaves are pretty hardy and don’t 
break down during cooking. The best way to impart their earthy taste is to strip the 
leaves from the stem and mince them. Or you can add whole stems while cooking, then 
remove them just before serving so their beautiful rosemary essence will remain in the 
finished dish.
Saffron:  This exotic spice is mostly used in Spanish cooking, but it’s also the subtle 
ingredient in Milan’s classic Risotto Milanese with Saffron (page 48). It gives the rice a 
pale-yellow color. Saffron ranges in color from deep red to dark orange. The thin, small 
threads are the stamens from a specific variety of crocus flower. That’s why the spice is 
so costly; each tiny stamen has to be extracted by hand.ITALIAN  ESSENTIALS  | 9    
Sage:  Pale, green-gray sage leaves feel a little fuzzy to the touch, and their gently 
aromatic flavor brings complexity and elegance to a variety of dishes. For Chicken 
Saltimbocca with Sage and Prosciutto (page 102), a whole leaf is attached to each 
meat medallion. Sage leaves are deep-fried for a crispy garnish, or added whole when 
roasting meats and vegetables. Sage and butter, heated together, makes a delicious quick 
sauce for pasta.
Salumi:  Here is the catchall name for any Italian cured meat. A platter of salumi  for, 
say, an antipasto, might have slices, rolls, or chunks of salami, cappocollo, prosciutto, 
mortadella, bresaola, speck, or soppressata. Every region has their own unique version 
of some or all of these types of cured meats.
Swiss chard:  Known in Italy as bietola , Swiss chard is similar to spinach but with a 
slightly stronger and “greener” flavor. The large green leaves have white veins, but some -
times the veins are red or yellow. I usually cut out the tougher veins and stems and cook 
the torn leaves quickly in a little water and olive oil (see page 94).
Tomatoes:  The most ubiquitous ingredients in the Italian pantry, aside from pasta, 
are tomatoes. Almost every recipe in this book that calls for tomatoes uses my favorite: 
crushed tomatoes from a can or jar. Crushed tomatoes have a pleasant thickness and are 
free of seeds and skins. You can also find canned San Marzano whole peeled tomatoes 
in major grocery stores. These much-lauded tomatoes are grown in the foothills of 
Mount Vesuvius near Naples.
Vinegar:  The word for vinegar in Italian is aceto . A favorite way to preserve vegetables 
is sotto’aceto , which means “under vinegar, ” or pickled. Vinegar is also the partner of 
olive oil for a typical Italian salad dressing. The rule for basic vinaigrette is to use three 
parts olive oil to one part vinegar. Red wine and white wine are the most common 
types of vinegar, but balsamic vinegar holds a more revered place in Italian cuisine. 
Traditional balsamic vinegar (from the region of Emilia Romagna) is aged for at least 
12 years, and is therefore very expensive. It’s used sparingly, just in drops, to embellish 
risotto, creamy pasta dishes, or even gelato.Negroni, page 14
The Antipasto Platter,  
page 1811    
2
Aperitivi and Appetizers
When there’s a chance to celebrate anything with food, Italians will gladly 
partake. Having a drink called an aperitivo  before dinner is one of my favor -
ite indulgences. It’s the first stop on the way to supper—a means of readying your 
palate for the meal to come. It’s usually lighter than hard liquor, and can include one 
or more of the signature, Italian-born vermouths and aperitifs. I love making these 
drinks at home, as their flavors have a way of transporting you right to Italy in your 
imagination (and it’s much cheaper than buying a plane ticket).
The other before-dinner Italian tradition is antipasto, which means “before the 
meal.” These are appetizers that open your palate and accompany your aperitivo . An 
antipasto can be as simple as a plate of sliced prosciutto or a few chunks of cheese. 
Or it can be a little more elaborate, like Clams Oreganata (page 20) or Stuffed 
Mushrooms with Shallots and Bread Crumbs (page 23). Altogether, this predinner 
tradition is not to be missed for the true Italian experience.
12 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Campari and Soda
SERVES:  1 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes
The first time I saw someone drinking a Campari and Soda at a bar in Italy, my eyes popped. 
Campari is bright red in color. In a glass on the rocks, it looks like something from the moon. 
I had to try it. A word of warning: Campari has a distinctly bitter taste and is therefore not for 
everyone. However, I took to it pretty fast.
1/2 cup ice cubes
2 ounces Campari
5 ounces club soda
Thin half slice of lemonPlace the ice cubes in a rocks glass or highball glass. Add the 
Campari, then the club soda; stir once to combine. Gently rub the 
lemon slice along rim of glass, then drop it into the drink.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Campari was invented in 1860 by Gasparo Campari 
and was originally meant to be an after-dinner amaro . Amaro  means 
“bitter” in Italian, and after-dinner drinks, called digestivi , are meant to 
aid in digestion (bitter flavors are thought to help with this process). So, 
try Campari after dinner, too. And as an aperitivo , switch out the club 
soda for tonic water—new great taste, new great drink.
PAIR WITH:  Crispy Artichoke Hearts with Aioli Dip (page 19)APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 13    Vegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Aperol Spritz
SERVES:  1 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes
Aperol is a bright orange, lightly alcoholic beverage. The Aperol Spritz is an aperitivo  of choice in 
the Italian city of Venice. And although it has a bright, summery personality, it’s served all year 
round. The drink was created in the early twentieth century by the Barbieri brothers from the 
nearby town of Padua, and the recipe has remained the same ever since.
1/2 cup ice cubes
1 ounce Aperol
3 ounces Prosecco
1/2 ounce club soda
1 orange sliceFill a stemmed wineglass halfway with ice. Pour in the Aperol, 
Prosecco, and club soda. Stir gently to combine. Cut a slit in the 
orange slice and wedge it onto the rim of the glass. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Prosecco is like a light, not-so-dry champagne. Y ou 
can switch out Prosecco in this drink for another sparkling wine if 
you like.
PAIR WITH:  White Bean and Sage Crostini (page 21)14 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Negroni
SERVES:  1 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes
The Negroni is a drink named after an Italian count, Camillo Negroni. It’s a genius combination 
blending the punch of gin, the softness of sweet vermouth, and a shot of bitter and bright 
Campari. Vermouth is a fortified wine with herbal and even floral hints. Sweet vermouth is red 
and is also a fine drink on its own, chilled, or on ice.
1/2 cup ice cubes
1 ounce gin
1 ounce sweet vermouth
1 ounce Campari
Thin sliver of orange peelFill a rocks glass with ice. Add the gin, sweet vermouth and 
Campari. Stir to combine. Lightly rub the orange peel around the 
rim of the glass, then drop it into drink.
VARIATION TIP:  For a lighter version of this drink, try a Negroni 
Sbagliato . Sbagliato  means mistake—as if you’ d made the drink 
incorrectly. For Negroni Sbagliato , switch out the same amount of gin 
with bubbling prosecco instead.
PAIR WITH:  The Antipasto Platter (page 18)APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 15    Vegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Peach Bellini
SERVES:  1 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes
The traditional Peach Bellini is made with puréed fresh white peaches. However, since it’s not that 
easy to find fresh white peaches, in this recipe I’ve opted for peach nectar that you can buy in a 
jar or canned. The Bellini was invented at Harry’s Bar in Venice. Every time I’m in Venice, I make 
sure to go to Harry’s on the Grand Canal, sit at their bar in the beautiful, wood-paneled room, 
and sip a Bellini. It’s the quintessential Venetian experience.
1 ounce peach nectar
2 ounces cold Prosecco
1 maraschino cherryPour the peach nectar into a champagne flute. Add the cold 
Prosecco, drop in the maraschino cherry, and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  If you have a food processor, you can make a 
raspberry variation of the Bellini. Pulse 1/2 cup fresh raspberries with 
2 teaspoons sugar and 2 teaspoons water until smooth. Then, stir in 
2 cups cold prosecco. This amount serves 4.
PAIR WITH:  Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta and Prosciutto (page 22)16 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Americano
SERVES:  1 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes
Despite its name, this aperitivo  is decidedly Italian. Some people think it’s called an Americano 
because the strength of the ingredients is diluted with club soda—making it more palatable for 
out-of-towners. Sweet vermouth also tempers the bitterness of Campari. Whatever the history 
behind this recipe, it’s a wonderfully refreshing predinner drink.
1/2 cup ice
1 ounce Campari
1 ounce sweet vermouth
2 ounces club soda
1 thin slice lemon peelFill a highball glass with ice. Add the Campari, sweet vermouth, 
and club soda. Gently rub the lemon peel along the rim of the glass, 
then drop it into the drink.
PAIR WITH:  Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots and Bread Crumbs 
(page 23)
THE ART OF THE APERITIVO
There are “bars” all over Italy, but they may not resemble the bars that you are familiar 
with. The main beverage at these establishments is coffee—in all its forms—with a full 
complement of alcohol also on hand. Before dinner, Italians congregate at bars around 
7 p.m. or so to relax with friends and an aperitivo —a light drink with some nibbles or 
snacks. Italy produces many types of liquor distinctly for aperitivi : Aperol, Campari, 
Punte e Mes, sweet and dry vermouth, and Carpano Bianco are just a few. Prosecco, a 
light bubbling wine, is also a favorite aperitivo . Sitting at a café table with your aperitivo  
and complimentary dish of olives or chips, you can watch the Italian world go by as you 
savor each individual taste. Then, after maybe an hour or so, it’s time to go to dinner, 
which Italians enjoy late, around 9 p.m. Once, when I was in the region of Lombardia, 
we visited with friends at a bar before dinner. It took more than two hours for everyone 
to gather, and then we traveled another half hour to a special restaurant on top of a hill 
where we had dinner around 10:30 p.m. A normal evening in Italy.
APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 17    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Venetian Scroppino
SERVES:  4 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes
The small group I brought to Venice a few years ago took a cooking class with Chef Marika on 
the beautiful island of Lido. While we prepared a full Venetian feast, she prepared the Venetian 
Scroppino for us. It’s a little like a frosty milkshake, but lemony and spiked with Prosecco. The 
drink is not well known outside of Venice, but it works well as an aperitivo  or an after-dinner 
dessert drink no matter where you are.
2 cups vanilla ice cream, 
slightly softened
2 cups lemon sorbet
1/2 cup lemon-flavored soda 
(preferably Italian limonata)
1/2 cup chilled Prosecco1. Combine the ice cream and sorbet in a large mixing bowl. Whisk 
vigorously until the mixture is smooth and creamy.
2. Gently whisk in the lemon soda and Prosecco until well combined.
3. Ladle the drink into 4 stemmed wineglasses. Serve immediately 
with straws.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you have an immersion blender, you can make 
short work of blending all the ingredients at once. For the lemon soda, 
feel free to use Sprite or Fresca.
PAIR WITH:  Parmigiano Crackers (page 81)18 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOK30 Minutes or Less
The Antipasto Platter
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes
This is probably the most common appetizer in Italy. The parts and pieces can change from day to 
day, but cured meats, some cheese, and some vegetables are always the main players. It’s meant to 
be assembled on a large platter for eaters to pick on while sipping some wine or aperitivi . Y ou can 
get as creative as you’ d like, but this recipe results in a tried-and-true arrangement. For consistent 
slices, have your local deli counter prepare the meats for you.
1/4 pound salami, 
thinly sliced
1/4 pound prosciutto, 
thinly sliced
1/4 pound capocollo or 
mortadella, thinly sliced
1/4 pound provolone or  
Asiago cheese, cut 
into bite-size cubes
1/2 cup black or green olives
1 cup marinated artichoke 
hearts (from a jar)
1/2 cup grape tomatoes
4 to 5 basil leaves, torn
1 small loaf Italian 
bread, sliced1. Use a large platter for the antipasto. Roll the salami, prosciutto, and 
capocollo (or mortadella) into tight rolls. Lay them out in one layer 
on one end of the platter.
2. Next to the meat, pile up the cheese cubes.
3. Arrange the olives next to the cheese, then add the artichokes and 
grape tomatoes.
4. Sprinkle the basil leaves on top, and serve the platter with the sliced 
bread alongside.
INGREDIENT TIP:  The array of Italian cured meats available at most 
deli counters can be a bit daunting, but the best way to learn about them 
is to try them. Prosciutto has a buttery texture; capocollo is a bit like a 
denser ham, but with more fat in the slice (and more flavor). Mortadella 
has a bologna-like consistency.
PAIR WITH:  Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta and Ham (page 85)APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 19    Vegetarian, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with Aioli Dip
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
When these fried artichoke hearts appear on my mom’s table, they are gone in a flash. I quickly 
adopted her recipe and made it my own. Artichokes have a strong umami content. Umami is 
the fifth flavor—sweet, sour, salty, and bitter are the other four. Umami means the food has an 
inherently tasty, super-savory quality. Use frozen artichoke hearts for this recipe, rather than 
canned or from a jar (I like Trader Joe’s brand).
1/2 cup flour
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 eggs
12 ounces frozen 
artichoke hearts, thawed 
and patted dry
3 or 4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup mayonnaise
2 or 3 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed lemon juice
1 small garlic clove, minced1. Place the flour in a medium bowl and season to taste with salt and 
pepper. In a separate bowl, lightly beat the eggs.
2. Toss artichoke hearts in the seasoned flour. Working one at a time, 
remove the artichokes from the flour, shake off any excess flour, 
and dip them in the egg. Place the coated artichokes on a plate near 
the stove.
3. Heat the oil in a medium skillet over medium-high heat. When 
hot, add the coated artichokes, working in batches, and cook until 
they are golden, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Drain the artichokes on a 
paper-towel-lined plate. Season lightly with salt.
4. Combine the mayonnaise, lemon juice, and garlic in a small mixing 
bowl. Serve this sauce with the artichokes for dipping.
VARIATION TIP:  My mother uses self-rising flour for this recipe. If 
you have some in the house, try it. It changes the outcome slightly. The 
finished artichoke hearts seem to be more neatly enclosed in the coating. 
Either way is great. These fried hearts are also fine on their own without 
the aioli.
PAIR WITH:  Puff Pastry Pizza (page 80)20 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOK30 Minutes or Less
Clams Oreganata
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  5 minutes
I grew up on the south shore of Long Island, New Y ork. We used to go clamming at the beaches 
and bring the bivalves home super-fresh. My family loved experimenting with different ways of 
preparing clams; we would sometimes even eat them raw, right from the shell. This recipe has 
a few more steps than usual, but it’s so worth it. Clams Oreganata is a classic Italian American 
appetizer. They’re simpler than baked clams, and it’s the easiest way to cook and flavor clams on 
the half-shell.
2 cloves garlic, peeled 
and minced
5 or 6 fresh Italian parsley 
sprigs, leaves minced
11/4 cup plain bread crumbs
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus more for drizzling
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 dozen littleneck clams
3 tablespoons 
unsalted butter1. Preheat the broiler.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, combine garlic, parsley, bread crumbs, 
and olive oil. Season with about 1/2 teaspoon salt and some black 
pepper to taste. Mix to combine well. Reserve.
3. Rinse the clams under cold water to get rid of any sand or grit. Add 
a little water to a large frying pan. Place clams in one layer. Cover 
and heat on medium for about 2 minutes, until the shells pop open. 
The aim is not to cook the clams completely, just to get the shells 
to open.
4. Remove clams from the pan; let cool until you can handle them. 
Open shell all the way, scrape clam into bottom half of the shell, 
and twist off the top shell (discard top shells). Slip a paring knife 
under each clam in the shell to loosen from shell, but leave clam 
in shell.
5. Line up clams on a sheet pan in one layer. Pat a spoonful of bread 
crumb mixture on top of each clam and tamp down. Cut small 
pieces of butter to top each clam. Broil clams (with pan 3 to 
5 inches from broiler) about 5 minutes, until the bread crumbs are 
browned and crispy. Serve hot.
INGREDIENT TIP:  When buying clams, look for the littleneck clams, 
which are smaller clams. When steaming them, you may find some that 
don’t open. Steam these clams a little longer on their own, and if they still 
don’t open, discard them.
PAIR WITH:  Aperol Spritz (page 13)APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 21    Vegan, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
White Bean and Sage Crostini
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  5 minutes
This cannellini bean crostini is a classic Tuscan recipe. Crostini are typically small rounds of 
lightly toasted baguette bread—perfect mini-platforms for flavorful toppings. Consider having 
a crostini party with a variety of toppings: white bean and sage, chopped tomatoes, sautéed 
mushrooms, roasted peppers . . . the possibilities are endless.
1 small baguette
4 or 5 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, divided
1 (15-ounce) can 
cannellini beans
1 garlic clove, minced
Leaves from 3 to 4 sprigs 
fresh sage, minced
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 tablespoon minced 
fresh Italian parsley1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Slice the baguette into thin (1/4-inch) slices. Place in one layer on a 
sheet pan. Brush lightly with a couple of tablespoons olive oil. Toast 
in oven until very lightly colored, about 5 minutes.
3. Empty the can of beans into a colander and rinse. Shake off excess 
water and pour beans into a medium mixing bowl. Using a potato 
masher, mash beans until well broken up, but still a little chunky. 
Add the remaining olive oil, garlic, and sage. Season with salt and 
pepper. Stir vigorously to combine. Add a bit of oil or water if 
mixture is too thick.
4. Spread a tablespoon or so on each crostini. Sprinkle with minced 
parsley. Serve.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you have a food processor, you can make this 
recipe in less time and with a smoother texture. Simply pulse the beans, 
garlic, sage, olive oil, salt, and pepper in the food processor until smooth.
PAIR WITH:  Negroni (page 14)22 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOK30 Minutes or Less
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta and Prosciutto
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  7 minutes
Sometimes people think “bruschetta” only refers to the typical bruschetta topping of chopped 
fresh tomatoes. However, bruscare  means “to toast” in Italian, and so bruschetta (pronounced 
brew-sketta), refers to the toasted bread—no matter what topping is on it. Different from the 
small rounds of crostini, here we have a more generous slice of crunchy Italian bread. Bruschetta 
is typically grilled, but it is just as wonderful toasted.
FOR THE BRUSCHETTA
1 loaf of Italian bread, 
cut into 1/2-inch slices
3 or 4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
2 garlic cloves, 
peeled and halved
Salt and freshly ground 
black pepper
FOR THE TOPPING
1 15-ounce container 
of ricotta
2 tablespoons honey
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 pound prosciutto, 
thinly slicedTO MAKE THE BRUSCHETTA
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Lay bread slices in one layer on a sheet pan. Brush lightly with olive 
oil. Rub cut sides of garlic onto top side of each slice. Season lightly 
with salt and pepper. Toast in oven until golden, about 5 minutes.
TO MAKE THE TOPPING
In a medium mixing bowl, combine ricotta, honey, and salt. Mix 
well to combine.
TO FINISH DISH
Spread a layer of ricotta on each slice of toasted bread. Rip the 
slices of prosciutto into smaller pieces, and add a few strips on top 
of each ricotta-topped bruschetta. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  In Italy you often see bruschetta toasted to the point 
of being charred. Feel free to get some char when baking, or if you have a 
grill, grilled bruschetta is rustic goodness.
PAIR WITH:  Campari and Soda (page 12)APERITIVI AND APPETIZERS  | 23    Vegan, Dairy-Free
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots and Bread Crumbs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
When you serve these stuffed mushrooms, everyone will be impressed with how sophisticated 
they look, but the truth is they couldn’t be simpler to cook. The recipe calls for large white 
mushrooms, but you can use cremini (baby portobello), and also mix the sizes (like the various 
sizes you get in an 8-ounce package). That way some mushrooms will be a mouthful, and others 
will be cute little pops of flavor.
12 large white mushrooms
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
1 shallot, peeled 
and minced
2 or 3 sprigs fresh Italian 
parsley, minced
3/4 cup bread crumbs, 
preferably panko
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Rinse the mushrooms briefly in cool water to clean off any loose 
dirt. Pat dry. Remove and mince the stems.
3. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a medium sauté pan. When hot, 
add the minced mushroom stems and minced shallot. Cook for 
2 to 3 minutes, until the shallot softens. Add the parsley and bread 
crumbs. Stir until the bread crumbs absorb some olive oil, about 
1 minute. Season lightly with salt and pepper.
4. Line a baking pan with foil. Drizzle it with a thin layer of olive oil. 
Place the mushroom caps upright on pan and season lightly with 
salt. Drizzle lightly with olive oil. Using a small spoon, fill each cap 
with filling.
5. Roast for 15 to 20 minutes until mushrooms have cooked through 
and topping is golden. Serve warm.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you’re having company, you can cook these 
stuffed mushrooms earlier in the day and reheat them right before 
serving. Or you can get them to the just-filled stage, refrigerate them, and 
then bake them in the oven for 20 minutes before company arrives.
PAIR WITH:  Red and Green Pepper Frittata (page 42)Sicilian Orange and Fennel Salad, page 3325    
3
Soups and Salads
Almost all of the Italian soups in this chapter are considered di magro , which 
means lean, or without meat, magically transforming pantry items into deli -
cious, warming meals (as in Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop Soup) on page 31, which 
calls for just eggs, grated Parmesan, and broth). Pair a soup with a great salad, and 
you have an entire meal. And take note: When it comes to salad, there are no bot -
tled dressings in Italy. Olive oil with vinegar or lemon juice is the mainstay salad 
seasoning. There are exceptions, though, such as Caesar Salad (see page 37). This 
Italian American creation adds anchovy and grated Parmesan to the usual oil and 
vinegar dressing. Salads are often served at the end of the meal in Italy, as they are 
considered helpful for digestion.
26 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty Vegetable and Bread Soup)
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  45 minutes
Ribollita  is a Tuscan classic that seems more like vegetable stew than a soup. Its high nutritious 
value is embedded in satisfying flavor. I first tasted this comforting soup at a small, tucked-away 
trattoria in Florence. It makes you instantly feel like a Florentine citizen. Don’t let the ingredient 
list daunt you—half of the ingredients are staples that may already be in your kitchen.
2 or 3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil, 
plus extra for brushing
1 medium onion, diced
2 carrots, peeled and diced
2 celery stalks, 
trimmed and diced
1 or 2 garlic cloves, 
peeled and smashed
1 or 2 sprigs fresh rosemary, 
leaves removed and minced
1 15-oz can plum tomatoes, 
roughly cut up
1 15-oz can cannellini 
beans, drained and rinsed
3 or 4 cups low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth
4 or 5 cups green kale or 
Tuscan (lacinato) kale, 
torn into bite-size pieces
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
8 to 12 slices Italian 
bread or baguette
1/2 cup grated Parmesan1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan. When hot, add the onion, 
carrots, and celery. Cook until softened, but not browned, about 
3 to 4 minutes. Add garlic and rosemary, and cook a minute or 
two more.
3. Add the tomatoes and beans; sauté for a couple of minutes. Add the 
broth. Season with salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer, then add the 
kale. Simmer for about 30 minutes until all the flavors combine.
4. Meanwhile, lay bread slices on a baking sheet in one layer. Brush 
or drizzle with a little olive oil; season with salt and pepper. Dust 
with 2 or 3 tablespoons grated Parmesan. Toast bread in oven until 
golden, 5 to 7 minutes.
5. To serve: Place a slice of bread in an individual soup bowl. Ladle 
soup on top. Top with another toast. Drizzle a little olive oil and 
dust with grated cheese. Serve hot.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Regular green kale is fine in this recipe, but if 
you can find Tuscan (i.e., lacinato) kale, it makes the soup that much 
more authentic.
PAIR WITH:  Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita (page 78) SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 27    Vegetarian, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Tortellini in Brodo with Spinach
SERVES:  4 to 6 | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Brodo  is Italian for broth, and as the recipe title suggests, this dish, hailing from the 
Emilia-Romagna region of Italy, couldn’t be easier. It’s perfect comfort food. Y ou can buy  
fresh tortellini—usually filled with cheese—in the refrigerator section of your supermarket.
1 quart low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth
1/2 pound fresh tortellini
5 or 6 ounces baby 
spinach, rinsed
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/3 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese1. Heat broth in a large saucepan until simmering. Add tortellini and 
simmer 2 to 3 minutes.
2. Add spinach, simmer 1 minute, or until the spinach has wilted, and 
then season with salt and pepper to taste.
3. Serve hot, sprinkling some grated Parmesan over each bowl.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou don’t need to wait until you have tortellini on 
hand to make this. Any small pasta—like pastina or orzo—can be used 
instead; just simmer the pasta in the broth until it’s al dente.
PAIR WITH:  Parmigiano Popovers (page 82)
BASIC BROTH
In many restaurant kitchens, you’ll find a tall, deep pot of water and vegetable scraps 
(onion skins, carrot shavings, leek tops, and celery leaves) constantly simmering on the 
back burner of the stove to make flavorful homemade vegetable broth. This method 
can also be used to make chicken broth with either chicken pieces or the carcass of a 
chicken with just its bones and any leftover meat. Broth brings a deeper flavor to a dish 
than water alone, and it adds extra nutrients, too. All broths should be simmered for as 
long as possible—ideally no less than 2 hours. In Italian cooking, broth is vital for soups 
and risotto.
I’m often asked, “What is the difference between broth and stock?” Typically, broth is 
seasoned with salt, uses meat rather than bones, and simmers for less time than stock. 
Either way, you end up with a very tasty liquid. Often, no one has time to make broth 
or stock, so there are lots of packaged broths at the supermarket. I rely on these to 
save time in the kitchen. If you are buying premade broth, choose low-sodium versions 
whenever possible, and adjust your seasonings accordingly, as even low-sodium broth 
can be a little salty.
28 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini Beans
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Growing up in my Italian American household, we always called this dish “beans and macaroni. ” 
It’s a comfort classic from the catalog of cucina povera , recipes that need just a few staples to 
make. This recipe contains no meat, but the beans fill the protein role, making this dish tasty, 
filling, and nutritious.
Salt 
1/2 pound small-
cut macaroni, i.e., 
elbow or ditalini
1 (15-ounce) can 
cannellini beans
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
and cut in half
Leaves from 3 or 4 sprigs 
Italian parsley, minced
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
cheese, for serving1. Fill a large saucepan with 2 quarts water and bring to a boil. Season 
water with 1/2 tablespoon salt and pour in pasta. Cook until al dente 
(done but not mushy).
2. Meanwhile, drain and rinse the beans. Place the beans in a small 
saucepan, add 11/2 cups of water, and season with salt and pepper. 
Bring to a simmer and cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Then shut off, 
and, using a potato masher, mash down the beans until some are 
smashed, but there are still some intact.
3. In another small saucepan, add the olive oil and garlic. Heat gently 
until the garlic gets just a little golden, then shut off.
4. Drain the pasta. Add pasta to a medium serving bowl. Add 
the beans and water. Add the olive oil and garlic. Sprinkle with 
parsley; toss to combine. Serve in bowls. Pass grated Parmesan for 
individual servings.
VARIATION TIP:  For even more flavor, you can use broth instead of 
water in this recipe, although water is the typical ingredient.
PAIR WITH:  Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary and Olives (page 83)SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 29    Italian Wedding Soup with Mini Meatballs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  30 minutes | COOK TIME:  40 minutes
Turns out, Italian wedding soup has nothing to do with weddings. It’s all about “wedding” 
the flavors of meat, vegetables, and pasta. And that marriage gets even better the next day, so 
save some for leftovers. Since no Italian cookbook would be complete without this classic (but 
time-consuming) soup, I’ve pared down the process to make it more manageable.
FOR THE MEATBALLS
2 slices white bread
1/3 cup milk
1 pound ground beef
1 egg
1/3 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese
Handful fresh Italian 
parsley leaves, chopped
FOR THE SOUP
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 small onion, diced
2 carrots, diced
2 celery stalks, diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
6 cups low-sodium chicken 
or vegetable broth
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1 cup ditalini or other 
small pasta
12 to 16 ounces 
escarole leaves, cut 
into bite-size pieces
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
cheese, for servingTO MAKE THE MEATBALLS
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with foil or 
parchment paper.
2. Gently tear the crusts off the bread slices and discard crusts. Break 
up the white middles into small pieces, place them in a small bowl, 
and cover with the milk. Let sit for a couple of minutes, then pull 
up the soaked bread from the milk and transfer it to a large mixing 
bowl, along with the beef, egg, cheese, and parsley. Mix with your 
hands or a spoon until well combined.
3. Using your hands, roll the meat mixture into 1-inch balls and line 
them up on the prepared baking sheet. Bake until the meatballs are 
cooked through and golden, about 30 minutes.
TO MAKE THE SOUP
1. Heat the oil in a large saucepan and sauté the onion, carrots, and 
celery until softened. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute more, 
until fragrant. Pour in the broth and season with salt and pepper 
to taste.
2. Simmer the soup for about 10 minutes, then add the pasta and 
cook until the pasta is al dente. Add the escarole and meatballs. 
Cook until the escarole is wilted, about 5 minutes more. Serve in 
individual bowls sprinkled with the grated cheese.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Most supermarkets carry escarole year-round. 
It looks like a head of romaine lettuce, but the leaves are thicker and 
only curly on the ends, and it has a slightly bitter taste. If you can’t find 
escarole, spinach is also very good in this soup.
PAIR WITH:  Caesar Salad with Garlic-Anchovy Dressing (page 37)30 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and Bread Soup)
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  35 minutes
Leave it to the Italians to make a spectacular soup out of bread. I wish I had been in that kitchen 
when Pappa al Pomodoro was invented. Stale bread was at hand, and so were tomatoes. With the 
added flavor of garlic and root vegetables, its authentic flavor will transport you to the Tuscan 
countryside.
3 tablespoons olive oil, 
plus more for drizzling
3 carrots, peeled 
and finely diced
2 celery stalks, finely diced
1 medium onion, finely diced
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 medium loaf peasant 
bread or ciabatta
1 (28-ounce) can peeled 
Italian tomatoes
3 cups low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth
1/2 cup red wine
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
Handful fresh Italian parsley 
and/or basil leaves
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
or Parmigiano-
Reggiano cheese1. Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan. Sauté the carrot, 
celery, onion, and garlic until softened, 3 to 4 minutes.
2. Break open the loaf of bread and tear out the white inside of the 
bread (reserve crusts). Pull apart white part of bread into small 
pieces. Add to the sautéing vegetables. Stir until bread has absorbed 
some of the oil.
3. Open the can of tomatoes, and, using a pair of kitchen scissors, 
roughly cut the tomatoes. Add tomatoes to the pot with the 
vegetables and bread.
4. Add the broth and red wine. Season with salt and pepper. Bring 
to a simmer, and simmer uncovered, stirring often, pressing bread 
to break it up, for about 30 minutes until bread breaks down and 
flavors combine.
5. Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 375°F. Tear apart the reserved 
crusts of the bread into bite-size pieces. Lay them out on a sheet 
pan. Season with salt and pepper, drizzle a little olive oil over bread, 
and scatter the parsley or basil. Toast in oven for about 5 minutes. 
Remove from oven.
6. Ladle soup into serving bowls. Add some toasted pieces of bread, a 
drizzle of olive oil, and some grated Parmesan to each bowl.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  Y ou can leave out the crispy bread topping at the 
end if you don’t have time. I love to add this crusty garnish, but the soup’s 
not traditionally served that way.
PAIR WITH:  Spice-Rubbed Pork Tenderloin (page 106)SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 31    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop Soup)
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  5 minutes
When you need something hot, delicious, and nutritious—and you need it quickly—here’s your 
dish. Stracciatella  means “torn pieces, ” which is what the egg mixture looks like when it is cooked 
in the broth.
4 large eggs
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
cheese, plus more 
for serving
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly 
ground black pepper
Leaves from 3 or 4 sprigs 
fresh Italian parsley, minced
Pinch grated nutmeg 
(optional)
4 cups low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth1. In a medium mixing bowl, beat the eggs together with grated 
Parmesan, salt, pepper, parsley, and nutmeg, if using.
2. Heat the broth to a lively simmer in a medium saucepan over 
medium-high heat.
3. Slowly pour egg mixture into the simmering broth. Stir constantly 
for a minute until the eggs form strips and flakes. Turn off heat.
4. Serve hot, topped with extra grated Parmesan.
PAIR WITH:  Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks (page 84) 32 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
Italian salad greens tend to have a bitter taste, but it’s that bracing flavor that makes the salad 
exciting. In this recipe, the bitterness of escarole, radicchio, and dandelion is tempered by the 
calming presence of romaine lettuce and the creamy touch of Parmigiano vinaigrette.
1 head escarole, rinsed 
and patted dry
1 bunch dandelion greens, 
rinsed and patted dry
1 romaine lettuce heart, 
rinsed and patted dry
1/2 small head radicchio, 
rinsed and patted dry
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 tablespoons mild vinegar 
(such as white wine vinegar 
or red wine vinegar)
1/4 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Remove the outer dark green leaves from the escarole. Cut off 
the core. Cut the inner pale green and white leaves into bite-size 
pieces (save darker leaves for sautéing or adding to soup). Cut 
the dandelion greens across the leaves, into small pieces. Slice the 
romaine into bite-size strips. Cut across the radicchio leaves to 
make thin strips.
2. Toss the cut salad greens together in a large salad bowl.
3. In a small mixing bowl, combine the olive oil, vinegar, and grated 
Parmesan. Stir briskly with a small spoon. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Drizzle dressing over salad and toss to coat.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you have trouble finding one or more of these 
greens, don’t worry. Use the ones you can find. Any combination of two 
or more of these greens will make a great salad.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Cod with Crispy Parmigiano Crumbs (page 114)SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 33    Vegetarian, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Sicilian Orange and Fennel Salad
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
Oranges grow in Sicily, and so does wild fennel. When my grandfather came from Sicily to the 
United States in 1912, he brought with him a sack of oranges to eat during his three-month 
voyage. By the time he arrived in New Y ork, he never wanted to see an orange again! This salad 
always reminds me of my grandfather, and of the Sicilian flavors I imagine he grew up enjoying as 
a young boy.
2 navel oranges
1 bulb fennel
1/2 red onion
2 sprigs fresh mint 
leaves, finely chopped
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
Juice from 1 lemon
1 teaspoon honey
Salt1. Peel the oranges. Cut them into 1/2-inch slices, across the segment 
grain. Then quarter each slice. Remove any seeds.
2. Trim off the long stems from the fennel bulb. Trim the root end. 
Cut off the tough outer layer. Cut remaining fennel bulb lengthwise 
in quarters. Cut each quarter lengthwise into very thin slices. Cut 
the red onion into thin, half-moon slices.
3. Combine the oranges, fennel, onion, and mint in a large serving 
bowl. Drizzle a little olive oil to coat. In a small bowl, mix together 
the lemon juice and honey. Drizzle this dressing over the salad and 
season with salt to taste. Toss well and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Y ou can usually find fennel in the supermarkets. It’s 
a white bulb with long green stems and feathery fronds.
PAIR WITH:  Shrimp Scampi (page 119)34 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Panzanella Salad with Cucumbers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
Panzanella Salad turns a seemingly uninteresting ingredient (stale, day-old bread) into a main 
ingredient. The bread softens a bit in this recipe as it absorbs the juices of the tomatoes, olive oil, 
and vinegar. Fresh herbs round out the flavors. If you only have fresh bread on hand, tear it into 
bite-size pieces, spread it on a baking sheet, drizzle it with a little olive oil, season with salt and 
pepper, then bake at 375°F for 5 to 7 minutes, until dried and golden.
2 cucumbers
3 or 4 sprigs mint, leaves 
removed, stems discarded
3 or 4 large, ripe tomatoes, 
cut into thin wedges
1 small red onion, cut 
into thin half-moons
1 loaf day-old (slightly 
stale) Italian bread, torn 
into bite-size pieces
1/3 cup olive oil
1/3 cup vinegar
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Trim the cucumber ends, and slice cucumbers in half lengthwise. 
Then cut in thick half-moons. Tear mint leaves into small pieces. 
Toss cucumbers, mint, tomatoes, onion, and bread together in a 
large mixing bowl.
2. Dress with 1/3 cup each olive oil and vinegar. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Let salad sit for 15 to 30 minutes so the bread can 
absorb the juices and soften a bit before serving.
INGREDIENT TIP:  The perfect time to make this salad is during 
summer, when the best tomatoes are available. When selecting tomatoes, 
choose ones that are deep red and as ripe as possible.
PAIR WITH:  Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion Pilaf (page 103)SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 35    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Chopped Caprese Salad with Balsamic Vinegar
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
The name caprese  refers to Capri: that tiny, tall, beautiful island surrounded by the shimmering 
sea of the Amalfi Coast, in the region of Campania. To get the true essence of Capri in this salad, 
seek out the freshest ingredients possible. Unlike more traditional recipes, here I call for balsamic 
vinegar, which offers a nice new flavor, and I mix everything up in a bowl instead of laying out 
slices on a platter.
3 or 4 ripe tomatoes, cut 
into bite-size chunks
11/2 cups small mozzarella 
balls ( bocconcini ), halved
1 shallot, peeled 
and minced
3 or 4 sprigs fresh 
basil leaves, torn into 
bite-size pieces
3 or 4 sprigs fresh 
mint leaves, torn into 
bite-size pieces
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1/4 cup olive oil
3 tablespoons 
balsamic vinegar
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. In a medium mixing bowl, combine the tomatoes, mozzarella, 
shallot, basil, mint, and oregano. Toss well.
2. Drizzle with the olive oil and balsamic vinegar, season with salt and 
pepper, and toss to coat. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you can’t find the bocconcini , cut up a larger, fresh 
mozzarella ball into bite-size pieces.
PAIR WITH:  Steamed Mussels with Cannellini Beans and Bacon 
(page 122)36 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with Pears and Gorgonzola
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes
Pear, walnuts, and Gorgonzola go perfectly together. Add this trio of flavors to peppery baby 
arugula and assertive radicchio, and you’ve got a winning combination. For even more varied 
texture, I’ve included some dried cherries, which add a surprising pop of sweetness.
1 Bosc or Bartlett pear
Juice from 1 large lemon
2 or 3 scallions, 
green parts only
2 or 3 cups baby arugula
1 cup radicchio leaves, 
torn into bite-size pieces
1/3 cup dried cherries
1/3 cup walnuts, 
rough chopped
1/2 cup crumbled Gorgonzola
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
2 to 3 teaspoons mild 
vinegar (such as white 
wine vinegar)
Salt1. Peel the pear, cut in half lengthwise, then cut in quarters length -
wise. Gently carve out the core and seeds. Cut pear into thin, 
bite-size slices. Toss pear with lemon juice to keep it from brown -
ing and for added flavor.
2. Cut scallions into small, thin circles.
3. In a large salad bowl, toss together the arugula, radicchio, 
pears (with lemon juice), scallions, dried cherries, walnuts, 
and Gorgonzola.
4. Drizzle the salad with a little olive oil and the vinegar, and toss well 
to coat the salad with the dressing. Season with salt to taste. Toss 
again and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Pears, even though they are a sweet fruit, love to 
appear in savory recipes. My favorite for this salad is Bosc pear. However, 
Bartlett and Anjou pears are equally delicious.
PAIR WITH:  Fusilli with Red Wine and Pancetta (page 57)SOUPS  AND  SALADS  | 37    30 Minutes or Less
Caesar Salad with Garlic-Anchovy Dressing
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  6 minutes
Romaine is the traditional lettuce in Caesar Salad. It has great crunch because of its strong ribs, 
and its sweet flavor is a welcome contrast to the anchovy-based salad dressing. The salad, with 
its unusual combination of salty anchovy and grated Parmesan, was created in the 1920s by an 
Italian-born immigrant to Mexico, Caesar Cardini.
1 small baguette, cut 
into bite-size pieces
1/3 cup olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 large head romaine 
lettuce, or 2 romaine hearts, 
rinsed and patted dry
4 or 5 anchovy 
fillets, mashed
2 garlic cloves, 
peeled and grated
1/4 cup freshly squeezed 
lemon juice (1–2 lemons)
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
1 teaspoon Dijon mustard
3 tablespoons 
grated Parmesan1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Toss the baguette pieces with a drizzling of olive oil to lightly coat. 
Season with salt and pepper. Spread out on a sheet pan in one layer. 
Bake until golden and crunchy, about 6 minutes. Set aside.
3. Cut the romaine in half lengthwise from the core to the leafy edges. 
Cut each half lengthwise again. Cut across the quarters to create 
bite-size pieces. Place the lettuce in a large salad bowl for serving.
4. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the mashed anchovies, 
garlic, olive oil, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, mustard, and 
Parmesan. Season with salt to taste. Pour the dressing over the 
lettuce. Add the croutons, toss well to coat, and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can replace anchovy fillets with 2 teaspoons 
anchovy paste. It cuts the anchovy flavor by almost half, but it’s easier and 
quicker to use. Some eaters may appreciate a lighter anchovy taste.
PAIR WITH:  Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage and Prosciutto (page 102)Red and Green Pepper Frittata, page 4239    
4
Polenta, Risottos,  
and Frittatas
Polenta, risotto, and frittatas are the ultimate Italian “blank canvases,” perfect 
for showcasing all sorts of traditional and inventive flavors and ingredients. 
Polenta is a creamy, savory porridge made from cornmeal cooked with water and 
milk. When it cools, it hardens into a dense cake that you can fry and dress up, as in 
Sautéed Polenta Squares with Shaved Parmigiano  (page 41). Risotto is an elegant 
dish made by following a very specific, yet simple, method: Italian rice is cooked 
slowly with broth, creating a rich, satisfying first course or side. Both polenta and 
risotto are more popular in the north of Italy than in the south, but frittatas are 
popular countrywide. A frittata, basically an Italian omelet, can be made with almost 
anything; it can include any combination of vegetables, herbs, cured meats, and/or 
pasta (see Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas on page 43).
40 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with Roasted Mushrooms
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
One of the stand-out flavors of this dish is Gorgonzola, Italy’s super-savory blue cheese. When 
you stir the cheese into the polenta, it melts and becomes one with the cornmeal, creating an 
irresistible taste and consistency. Warm, soft polenta is so comforting and satisfying, and topping 
it with roasted thyme-infused mushrooms gives you a great contrast.
FOR THE MUSHROOMS
5 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, divided
1 shallot, peeled 
and thinly sliced
1 pound white mushrooms, 
trimmed and sliced
3 to 4 sprigs fresh thyme
FOR THE POLENTA
2 cups milk
3 cups water
1 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1/2 cup crumbled Gorgonzola
1/2 cup grated Parmesan
1/4 teaspoon ground 
nutmeg (optional)
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepperTO MAKE THE MUSHROOMS
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Line a sheet pan with foil. Lightly oil the pan with about 
2 tablespoons of olive oil. Toss sliced mushrooms and sliced shallot 
with 2 more tablespoons of oil. Spread out in one layer in the pan. 
Sprinkle thyme sprigs on top. Roast for about 15 minutes, until 
mushrooms are slightly wilted. Discard thyme.
TO MAKE THE POLENTA
1. While the mushrooms roast, bring the milk and water to a simmer. 
Sprinkle in the cornmeal, whisking the whole time. Cook on 
medium heat, stirring with a wooden spoon almost constantly, 
until the polenta thickens, about 20 minutes. Add the butter, 
cheeses, and nutmeg (if using), and season with salt and pepper. 
Polenta should be the consistency of a thick batter and pull away 
from the sides of the pan when done. Serve hot. Polenta thickens 
when cooled.
2. Spoon soft, hot polenta into individual serving bowls. Top with a 
spoonful or two of mushrooms.
VARIATION TIP:  This dish can almost be whatever you like. Switch 
out the cheeses for your favorite flavors—just be sure to grate or shred 
the cheese first. Same for the mushrooms: feel free to swap them out for 
roasted peppers, wilted spinach, or steamed asparagus.
PAIR WITH:  Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage and Prosciutto (page 102)POLENTA, RISOTTOS, AND  FRITTATAS   | 41    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free
Sautéed Polenta Squares with Shaved Parmigiano
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes | COOK TIME:  40 minutes
When soft polenta cools, it solidifies into a tender, cake-like consistency that is perfect for slicing 
and topping with savory ingredients. Serve these fried polenta squares as an appetizer or side 
dish, or even as a snack.
1/2 cup water
2 cups milk
1/2 cup cornmeal
2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, plus more for 
greasing the pan
Salt
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1/2 cup shaved Parmesan 
or pecorino1. Bring the water and milk to a simmer. Sprinkle in the cornmeal, 
whisking the whole time. Return the mixture to a simmer, 
whisking until it begins to thicken, then switch to a wooden 
spoon. Continue to stir, cooking until polenta is very thick, about 
15 minutes. Stir in the butter, and salt to taste. Take off of the heat.
2. Butter a 9-by-13-inch pan, or quarter-sheet pan. Spread polenta 
into pan. Smooth it out to make an even, thin layer. Place pan in 
the refrigerator to set, about 15 minutes.
3. When the refrigerated polenta sets, cut it into about 2-inch squares 
or triangles. Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a medium frying pan. 
When hot, add the cut polenta and fry until golden on both sides. 
Remove to a paper-towel-lined plate to drain, then blot.
4. Serve hot or room-temperature polenta squares/triangles topped 
with shaved Parmesan or pecorino cheese.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  Y ou can make and chill polenta a day or two ahead, 
then fry pieces when you’re ready to serve. For best results, blot the 
polenta with paper towels before frying to remove any extra moisture.
PAIR WITH:  Rice Salad with Chopped Vegetables and Roasted Peppers 
(page 50)42 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Red and Green Pepper Frittata
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  12 minutes
I love mixing bell pepper colors. Green peppers have a much more assertive taste than their mild, 
red-pepper friends. The two together create a balance in taste that’s very complementary (and 
pretty, too). In Italy, the word for bell peppers is peperoni— which can be confusing for tourists 
when they’re ordering pizza.
1 small red bell pepper
1 small green bell pepper
3 to 4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
4 large eggs1. Preheat the oven broiler.
2. Cut peppers in half. Pull off the stems and clean the inside of white 
membrane and seeds. Slice peppers into 1/2-inch strips.
3. Heat the olive oil in a medium stainless or cast iron sauté pan—the 
pan needs to go in the oven (make sure the handle is metal, too). 
When oil is hot, add the peppers. Sauté for 4 to 5 minutes on 
medium-high heat until peppers have softened, but still a little 
firm. Season with salt and pepper.
4. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk the eggs with a fork. Season with 
salt and pepper. Make sure there is at least a thin layer of oil still in 
the pan (or add a little). Pour the eggs over the peppers. Level the 
peppers with the eggs, using a spatula or fork, until the ingredients 
cover the pan evenly.
5. Lower heat to medium and let cook until the bottom is set, 2 to 
3 minutes. Place the skillet in oven under broiler for 3 to 4 minutes 
until golden on top. IMPORTANT: remember to use a pot holder 
when taking out the skillet. It’s easy to forget you have an oven-hot 
skillet and may just grab the handle as if it were on the stove. Once 
out, I keep a pot holder resting on the handle to remind me it’s hot.
6. Loosen frittata from pan, and slide onto a dinner-size plate. Cut in 
wedges like a pizza. Serve warm or at room temperature.
PAIR WITH:  Italian Mixed Green Salad with Parmigiano Vinaigrette 
(page 32)POLENTA, RISOTTOS, AND  FRITTATAS   | 43    Vegetarian
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
When I lived in Rome, my Roman roommate, Enrica, showed me how to make a spaghetti 
frittata. At first, I was dubious. Pasta with eggs? In a frying pan? But after that first taste I was 
hooked. It’s now my favorite type of frittata. These mini spaghetti frittatas are my version of 
Enrica’s recipe. They are perfect for brunch, picnics, and after-work/after-school snacks.
11/2 teaspoons salt, divided
1/2 pound spaghetti, strands 
broken into thirds
5 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
1/2 teaspoon freshly 
ground black pepper
1/3 cup grated Parmesan 
or pecorino
3 eggs, lightly beaten
1 medium Roma 
(plum) tomato, cut 
into 1/4-inch pieces1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large saucepan. 
When boiling, add a tablespoon of salt and then add spaghetti. 
Cook the spaghetti to al dente . Drain it and put it in a medium 
mixing bowl.
3. Cut 4 tablespoons of butter into pats and add to spaghetti. Stir 
to coat. Sprinkle in 1/2 teaspoon each salt and black pepper, and 
1/4 cup grated cheese. Stir to combine and coat spaghetti well. Add 
a little pasta water to moisten if too thick. Let pasta cool for about 
5 minutes.
4. Butter a medium-size cupcake pan (should have 12 cups) with 
remaining butter.
5. Add the eggs to spaghetti mixture, and mix to combine well. Using 
a pair of tongs, lift a “tong-full” of pasta and place in a cupcake pan 
cup, just to the top. Fill all the cups with pasta. Sprinkle chopped 
tomato on top of each cup.
6. Bake for about 20 minutes until the tops look slightly golden, with 
some strands getting darker golden. Remove, let cool for about 
5 minutes. Use a knife to loosen mini-frittatas around the edges. 
Lift out each one. Serve warm or at room temperature.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  To save time, save this recipe for when you have 
leftover spaghetti. Any sauce will do. Y ou can even make “cupcakes” with 
penne pasta or other small pasta shapes.
PAIR WITH:  Butter-Braised Spinach with Slivered Almonds (page 95)44 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried Tomatoes
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
I love cutting this large frittata into small squares for an antipasto platter. The sun-dried tomato is 
nice and pungent, a perfect foil for the egg. Please note: moving the sheet pan with the liquid egg 
can be a bit tricky. Just carry it slowly, and place it on the oven rack that’s easiest to reach.
5 large eggs
1/2 cup sun-dried tomatoes, 
diced (see Ingredient Tip)
1/3 cup grated Parmesan
Leaves from 1 to 2 sprigs 
fresh mint, minced
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 tablespoon 
unsalted butter1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the eggs, sun-dried 
tomatoes, grated Parmesan, and mint. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Butter a 9-by-13-inch pan, or quarter sheet pan with at least 1-inch 
sides. Pour egg mixture into the pan. Gently slide into oven.
4. Bake for about 20 minutes until the egg solidifies and turns 
slightly golden.
5. Remove the pan from oven. Let cool for about 5 minutes. Cut 
frittata into 1- to 2-inch squares, either in the pan or turned out 
onto a cutting board. Serve warm or at room temperature.
INGREDIENT TIP:  I prefer to buy unmarinated sun-dried tomatoes. 
Y ou can usually find them in packets, uncoated and totally dry. These 
tend to have the cleanest flavor.
PAIR WITH:  Chopped Caprese Salad with Balsamic Vinegar (page 35)POLENTA, RISOTTOS, AND  FRITTATAS   | 45    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and Peas)
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
This homey Venetian classic couldn’t be humbler. It’s just rice and peas. The dish is cooked risotto 
style, which means you actively stir in the warm broth little by little until the rice is cooked. What 
makes Risi e Bisi different from risotto is that, at the end of cooking, you add extra broth to make 
it soupy.
4 cups low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth
5 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
1 tablespoon extra-
virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, minced
1 cup arborio or other 
short-grain rice
1/4 cup white wine
2 cups frozen peas, thawed
Leaves from 2 to  
3 fresh Italian parsley 
sprigs, minced
1/3 cup grated Parmesan1. Heat the broth in a medium saucepan until warmed. 
2. In a heavy-bottomed saucepan or sauté pan with 2-inch sides, 
melt 2 tablespoons of butter and 1 tablespoon of olive oil. Add the 
minced onion and sauté until softened but not colored.
3. Add the rice and stir until rice is coated with oil and butter and 
heated until hot. Add the wine. The pan will sizzle with steam. 
Allow wine to evaporate, stirring to prevent the rice from sticking.
4. Start adding the warmed broth to the pan, about a cup at a time, 
stirring until it begins to evaporate. Continue adding broth little by 
little, until the rice becomes al dente.
5. Just before the rice is done, add the peas and parsley. Stir to 
incorporate. When the rice is cooked, add enough broth to keep 
it a little soupy. Stir in the last tablespoon of butter and the grated 
Parmesan. Serve hot.
PAIR WITH:  Tilapia Poached in Savory Tomato-Tarragon Sauce 
(page 117)46 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Lemony Risotto with Asparagus
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Risotto is a style of cooking rice that creates a creamy, elegant result. It requires constant stirring 
while the rice absorbs the broth and eventually becomes al dente—cooked through but still firm 
to the bite. There are countless ingredients you can add to risotto, but the basic recipe always 
remains the same. In this one we add lemon zest and asparagus. Note: There’s a saying that you 
should always stir risotto in the same direction. That’s what I do (keeping with tradition), but I’m 
not sure if it really matters.
4 cups low-sodium 
vegetable or chicken broth
12 asparagus spears
4 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
1 tablespoon extra-
virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, minced
1 cup arborio rice
1/2 cup dry white wine
Salt
Zest from 2 small lemons
1/2 cup grated Parmesan1. Heat the broth in a medium pot until warmed. Keep on a low-heat 
burner throughout the cooking.
2. Cut off the woody ends of the asparagus. Then cut the asparagus 
into bite-size pieces. Reserve.
3. In a heavy-bottomed saucepan or sauté pan with at least 2-inch 
sides, melt 2 tablespoons of butter and one tablespoon of olive oil. 
When hot, add the onion and sauté until softened but not colored. 
Add the rice and stir until the rice is coated with oil and butter 
and heated until hot. Add the wine. The pan will sizzle with steam. 
Allow wine to evaporate, stirring to prevent the rice from sticking.
4. Start adding broth to the pan, about 1 cup at a time—the amount 
should come to 1/2 inch above the rice level. Continue to stir until 
broth begins to evaporate. The pan should be simmering on 
medium to medium-high heat. Then add more broth little by little, 
continuing to stir until the rice becomes al dente , 12 to 15 minutes.
5. About three-quarters of the way through cooking, add the cut 
asparagus. Season rice with a little salt.POLENTA, RISOTTOS, AND  FRITTATAS   | 47    CUCINA POVERA
The Italian term  cucina povera  translates to “peasant cooking” in English. When meat, 
fish, or other expensive ingredients are scarce in the kitchen, invention is necessary. 
Stale bread suddenly becomes an important ingredient, as in the bread and tomato 
soup Pappa al Pomodoro on page 30, or it’s used to make bread crumbs for stuffing. 
Humble ingredients, like cornmeal, rice, and eggs, shine with the right flavors and just a 
few added ingredients (see Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried Tomatoes, page 44; Soft 
and Cheesy Polenta with Roasted Mushrooms, page 40; and Baked Rice with Peas and 
Celery, page 49). Cucina povera  is a cuisine that shows us what we don’t need, inviting us 
to invent delicious new recipes with the most basic of ingredients.
6. When al dente, add 2 tablespoons of butter, the lemon zest, and 
the cheese. Stir to combine. The consistency should be creamy 
and still very moist. Adjust seasoning with salt if necessary. 
Serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIPS:  Arborio rice is easy to find in most grocery stores, 
and it will really give you the best results. If you start to run out of broth 
near the end of cooking, it’s okay to use water instead.
PAIR WITH:  Shrimp Scampi (page 119)48 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Risotto Milanese with Saffron
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Risotto Milanese is a classic dish from the region of Lombardia. In this recipe, rice is cooked in 
the typical risotto style, with the only added ingredient being saffron, which lends the cooked rice 
a yellow hue and deep flavor. Risotto Milanese is almost always paired with osso buco.
4 cups low-sodium 
vegetable broth 
(for vegetarians) or 
chicken broth
4 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
1 tablespoon extra-
virgin olive oil
1 small onion, minced
1 cup arborio rice
1/3 cup dry white wine
1/2 teaspoon saffron threads
1/2 cup grated 
Parmesan cheese
Salt1. Heat the broth in a medium pot until warmed. Keep warm on a 
low burner.
2. For the rice, use a medium, thick-bottomed saucepan or sauté 
pan with at least 2-inch sides. Melt 2 tablespoons of butter and 
1 tablespoon of olive oil in the pan over medium heat. Add onion 
and sauté on medium-high until softened but not colored, about 
3 minutes.
3. Add the rice and stir until the rice is coated with oil and butter 
and heated until hot. Add the wine. The pan will sizzle with steam. 
Allow wine to evaporate, stirring to prevent the rice from sticking.
4. Start adding broth to the pan, about 1 cup at a time—the amount 
should come to 1/2 inch above the rice. Continue to stir until broth 
begins to evaporate. The pan should be simmering on medium to 
medium-high heat. Then add more broth little by little, continuing 
to stir until the rice becomes al dente , 12 to 15 minutes.
5. About two-thirds of the way through cooking, place the saffron 
in a small bowl and add some of the hot broth. Let it steep about 
3 minutes. Stir the saffron broth into the rice near the end.
6. When rice is al dente, add remaining 2 tablespoons of butter, 
and the cheese. Stir to combine. Season with salt to taste. 
Serve immediately.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  Risotto needs to be served immediately, since it can 
get sticky as it sits. If you’re cooking risotto for company, try this trick: 
Cook the rice, stirring and adding broth little by little, for 10 minutes, 
then turn off the heat. When company arrives, start up the cooking and 
stirring again. It’ll take about another 5 minutes and will still have the 
perfect consistency at the end.
PAIR WITH:  Veal Osso Buco Braised in Red Wine (page 108)POLENTA, RISOTTOS, AND  FRITTATAS   | 49    Vegetarian
Baked Rice with Peas and Celery
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  50 minutes
I grew up with this casserole-style dish. It’s a little bit unusual, with some unfamiliar steps, but 
it’s easy to make, and the resulting flavors are well worth the effort. My mom learned this recipe 
from our Sicilian upstairs neighbor in Brooklyn, whom I knew as Aunt Mary, a good friend 
who became my mother’s cooking mentor. Though baked rice is not particularly Sicilian, it is an 
example of what Italian immigrants came up with as they acclimated to American culture.
Salt
1 cup long-grain rice
2 or 3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
8 to 10 ounces mushrooms, 
rinsed or brushed clean, 
roughly chopped
1 stalk celery, diced finely
1 onion, diced finely
1 egg
1 cup low-sodium vegetable 
or chicken broth
1 cup frozen peas, thawed
Freshly ground 
black pepper 
21/2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter, plus 
more for the pan
1/2 cup bread 
crumbs, divided1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. In a medium saucepan bring 3 to 4 cups of water to a boil. Add 
some salt and the rice. Cook at a simmer for 12 to 15 minutes until 
tender. Drain. Set aside.
3. Meanwhile, heat olive oil in a medium skillet until hot. Add the 
mushrooms. Cook about 5 minutes until they are wilted and 
cooked through. Season with salt. Remove them from pan and set 
aside. Add a little more oil; heat till hot; add the celery and onion. 
Cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Season with salt. Remove 
from pan and add to the mushrooms.
4. In a large mixing bowl, beat the egg with the broth. Add the cooked 
rice, peas, and celery-mushroom-onion mixture. Combine well. 
Taste for seasoning and add salt if needed. Add some black pepper.
5. Using 1/2 tablespoon of butter, grease a medium casserole dish, 
and coat with all the bread crumbs except 2 tablespoons. Shake 
out excess crumbs. Pour in rice mixture and smooth top evenly. 
Sprinkle the rest of the bread crumbs on top. Cut remaining 
2 tablespoons of butter into smaller pieces and dot the top with 
butter pieces. Bake for about 40 minutes until the top is golden. Let 
sit for 5 minutes or more before spooning out to serve.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  This dish is even better the next day, so feel free to 
bake it the day before you need it. Keep it in the refrigerator, and reheat 
when you’re ready.
PAIR WITH:  Rustic Sausage Meatballs (page 105)50 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Rice Salad with Chopped Vegetables 
and Roasted Peppers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Giardiniera  is a popular Italian condiment—assorted vegetables pickled in vinegar and packed 
in a jar—which can be found in most grocery stores near the pickles and olives. These vinegary 
vegetables have an intense taste, but they are delicious paired with the neutral flavor of rice. Rice 
Salad with giardiniera  is a northern Italian favorite. I add a few roasted red peppers, olives, and 
some fresh tomato to give this dish even more texture and balance.
5–6 cups water
Salt
2 cups long-grain rice
1 (16-ounce) jar Italian 
giardiniera  (or other 
pickled vegetables)
1 cup pitted black or 
green olives, chopped
2 roasted red peppers 
(from a jar), cut into 
bite-size pieces
1/2 cup fresh grape 
tomatoes, quartered
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
Juice of 1 lemon
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. In a large saucepan, bring 5 to 6 cups of water to a boil. Add some 
salt and the rice. Cook at a simmer for 12 to 15 minutes until 
tender. Drain. Add the rice to a large mixing bowl.
2. Meanwhile, drain the giardinera  vegetables and chop them into 
bite-size pieces. Add to the rice. Add olives, peppers, and  tomatoes. 
Season well with salt and pepper. Drizzle olive oil to coat all. Add 
lemon juice. Stir well to combine. Serve at room  temperature, 
or cold.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  Make this salad a few days before you need 
it, and nibble on a small bowlful every time you want a great snack 
or pick-me-up.
PAIR WITH:  Baked Parchment Packets with Tilapia, Thyme, and Lemon 
(page 118)Linguine with Fra Diavolo Shrimp Sauce, page 6853    
5
Pastas and Sauces
My dad used to tell me a story about his father coming home from work via 
the subway in Brooklyn: the train platform was so close to the back of my 
grandfather’s house that, as soon as he got off the train, he would call out to my 
grandmother, “Put the water on for pasta!” He didn’t want to wait for the water to 
boil, yet he knew that my grandmother was waiting to start the water, since pasta 
should always be eaten right after it finishes cooking (to prevent it from sticking 
together and losing its perfect texture). Later in my life, I learned the popular Italian 
saying, “pasta waits for no one,” and it reminds me of my grandfather calling from 
the train.
Pasta is the soul food of Italian cuisine—at once comforting, delicious, nutritious, 
and easy to prepare. There already seems to be an infinite number of pasta recipes, 
and every time I go to Italy, I come home with two or three new ones. Each city, 
each town, and each household has their own way of seasoning, saucing, and cooking 
Italy’s iconic, multi-shaped noodles. To get the best results, most of the recipes in 
this chapter can be made in the time it takes to boil your pasta. And in the true spirit 
of cucina povera  (see page 47), even the pasta water is an ingredient in some recipes, 
such as Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe (page 62), and True Fettuccine Alfredo (page 63).
54 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  45 minutes | COOK TIME:  3 minutes
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough can be used for many different pasta shapes. It takes a little time, but it’s 
worth trying at least once—so you can say you did. It’s a fun thing to do with family and friends 
(and as a bonus, many hands will make the work go faster). We make fresh pasta in my cooking 
classes all the time, and everyone masters it quickly. Here’s how to make fettuccine, which is 
delicious in True Fettuccine Alfredo (page 63) and Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato Sauce (page 58).
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs, lightly beaten
2 teaspoons extra-
virgin olive oil1. Whisk the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl. Create a well in the 
middle. Mix the eggs with the olive oil and pour egg mixture into 
the well center. Using a fork, slowly mix the flour into the egg, until 
the dough starts to comes together. If you get a nice ball of dough 
and there’s still some flour left in the bowl, don’t feel compelled 
to include it all. Gather the dough and knead on a clean work 
surface until most of the floury color disappears. Shape into a ball 
and cover with plastic wrap. Let rest for about 30 minutes at room 
temperature (if possible), or use right away.
2. Without a pasta machine:  Cut the ball into 4 quarters. Work with 
one quarter at a time, wrapping the rest of the dough in plastic 
to keep from drying out. On a clean work surface, lightly dusted 
with flour, roll out a quarter of the dough as thin as possible, about 
1/8-inch. For fettuccine, using a knife, or a wheel cutter, make strips 
of pasta about 1/4 inch wide. Or gently fold pasta sheet into 2 or 
3 folds. Cut into 1/4-inch strips and shake out pieces. Lay out strips 
on a lightly floured sheet pan. Repeat with rest of dough. (Note: 
for shorter strands, you can cut your dough sheet in half before 
making the fettuccine strips.)
3. If you have a pasta machine : Cut the dough into quarters. Work 
with one quarter at a time, keeping the rest of the dough covered 
in plastic. Flatten the dough quarter. Set the pasta machine at the 
widest setting (usually the lowest number). Pass the dough through 
the machine. Fold it in thirds and pass it through the first setting 
again. Then roll the dough through, advancing the numbers one 
by one, until you reach the number before the last, or the desired 
thickness. Cut the stretched dough into 2 or 3 lengths, depending 
on how long you want the fettuccine. Use the cutter for fettuccine 
on the machine and pass the dough pieces through, separating the 
strands when done.PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 55    4. Bring about 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large 
saucepan. Add 1 tablespoon salt, then the pasta. Cook, stirring 
to keep stands separate, till al dente, about 3 minutes. Drain. Add 
sauce, and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  For spinach pasta, add 1/4 cup of minced fresh spinach 
to the egg mixture, and increase the amount of flour by 1/2 cup.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Asparagus with Shallot and Parmigiano (page 89)
HOW TO COOK PASTA
Follow these simple instructions to cook any dried pasta to perfection:
1.  Bring a large pot of water to a rolling boil. When the water boils, add enough salt to 
make it as salty as the ocean (about a tablespoon or more).
2.  Add the pasta and stir well to prevent it from sticking together.
3.  Once the water comes back to a boil, set a timer for the time specified on the pasta’s 
packaging for al dente—usually 8 to 10 minutes. Thicker-cut pasta will need more time 
to cook, and thin pasta like capellini will need less time. Do not add oil to the water. Oil 
coats the pasta, preventing any sauce you use from sticking to the pasta and adding 
an extra flavor that might not go well with the rest of your recipe.
4.  How do you know it’s done? There’s only one way: taste it. Pasta should be cooked  
al dente , or “to the tooth,” which means cooked through but still firm.
For fresh-made pasta, it’s a little different: Add it to the salted boiling water and cook for 
no more than 3 or 4 minutes. Any longer, and the fresh pasta can turn to mush.
56 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan
Fresh Eggless Pasta Dough
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 30 minutes for dough to rest | COOK TIME:  3 minutes
In all my travels to Italy, I have encountered eggless pasta dough most frequently in the southern 
regions. The recipe requires only three ingredients: flour, water, and salt. In Sicily, they sometimes 
use semolina flour. In Puglia, we once used whole-wheat flour with water. But all-purpose flour, 
the flour most easily found in stores, is a great choice. Here is a recipe for eggless pasta dough 
with a sample pasta shape for you to try: trofie . Trofie  originated in the Italian Riviera in the 
region of Liguria; it’s fun to make, and it holds sauce well.
FOR THE PASTA DOUGH
2 cups unbleached all-
purpose flour, plus extra
1 tablespoon plus  
1/4 teaspoon salt, divided
2/3 cup waterTO MAKE THE PASTA DOUGH
1. Whisk the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl. 
2. Make a well in the center. Pour 2/3 cup of water in the center and, 
using a fork, whisk the flour into the water until the dough starts to 
come together. 
3. Gather the dough and knead it on a lightly floured surface. If it’s 
too sticky, add a little flour; if it’s too dry, add a little water. Knead 
for about 5 minutes until smooth; shape the dough into a ball, and 
cover with plastic wrap. 
4. Let rest for 30 minutes at room temperature (if possible), or use 
right away.
TO MAKE THE TROFIE  PASTA SHAPE
1. Break off a small handful of dough. Roll dough into a long rope 
about 1/2 inch thick. Cut rope into 1/2-inch pieces. Roll each piece 
with a swift motion between your palms until the dough becomes 
elongated and twisted. It should look like a thin, short piece of 
twisted rope. Repeat with the rest of the dough. Place the finished 
trofie  on a floured sheet pan or surface.
2. Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large saucepan. 
Add 1 tablespoon salt and the pasta. Stir occasionally to keep from 
clumping. Cook for about 3 minutes until pasta is  al dente. Add 
your favorite sauce.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  Try to keep the shaped pasta pieces as thin as 
possible. They will inflate a little when boiled.
USE IN:  Pasta with 30-Minute Meat Sauce (page 59) or Farfalle with 
Grated Zucchini and Cream (page 66)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 57    30 Minutes or Less
Fusilli with Red Wine and Pancetta
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
I love using fusilli pasta here, because it most perfectly matches the pasta shape used when I first 
tasted this dish. My cooking group and I were enjoying a wine tasting in the Chianti classico 
region of Tuscany. While we sipped Chianti on the patio of the vineyard, we were served this 
pasta made by the lady of the house. The pasta is actually cooked in red wine, which gives the 
finished dish a beautiful color. Pancetta and sage round out the flavorings—earthy, Tuscan, and 
very much from a vineyard. Y ou can also try either of the fresh pasta recipes (pages 54 and 56) to 
go with this sauce.
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1/4 pound pancetta, diced
Salt
1 pound cut pasta, such as 
fusilli or corkscrew shape
1 cup Chianti wine or 
favorite dry red wine
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/2 cup grated Parmesan or 
pecorino or combination
8 to 10 fresh sage 
leaves, diced1. In a pasta pot or large saucepan, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil.
2. Meanwhile, place the olive oil and chopped pancetta in a small 
frying pan. Cook until the pancetta is lightly browned, about 
5 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
3. Add 1 tablespoon salt to the boiling water, then stir in the pasta 
and cook until it is almost done, just before al dente (the pasta will 
cook some more in the wine).
4. Meanwhile, pour the wine into a large, deep sauté pan and bring 
it to a simmer over medium heat. Add a pinch of salt. When the 
pasta is almost done cooking, use a skimmer or strainer to scoop 
the pasta out of the pot, and drop it into the simmering wine. Let 
the pasta cook at a lively simmer, stirring frequently, for about 
2 minutes or until the wine is mostly or completely absorbed. 
Season with salt and pepper.
5. Scrape the pancetta and its oil into the pan with the pasta, stir in 
the cheese and sage leaves, and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve hot.
PAIR WITH:  Easy Crab Cakes (page 123)58 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Y ou don’t have to spend hours making a great tomato sauce. This quick marinara is my go-to 
recipe for a fast, authentic taste.
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, finely diced 
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound pasta (or pasta 
from fresh pasta recipes, 
pages 54 and 56)1. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan.
2. Heat oil in a medium saucepan. When hot, add onion. Cook on 
medium to medium-high heat for about 3 to 5 minutes until onion 
has softened.
3. Add the wine. Let the wine evaporate to about half its volume.
4. Add tomatoes. Season lightly with salt and pepper. Let simmer for 
10 to 15 minutes.
5. When pasta water is boiling, add 1 tablespoon salt. Add pasta. 
Cook to al dente. Drain.
6. Add pasta to a large serving bowl. Coat with tomato sauce.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you like garlic, add a peeled garlic clove when 
sautéing the onion. And remember: Italians like some sauce with their 
pasta—not some pasta with their sauce. Avoid drowning the pasta in 
sauce when you serve it.
PAIR WITH:  Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa Verde (page 111)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 59    Pasta with 30-Minute Meat Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 5 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Y es, there are meat sauces that take hours to cook; that’s when you’re using cuts of meat that need 
low-and-slow braises to break down and get tender. For a quicker version, I like to use ground 
beef, which cooks in minutes and adds the perfect amount of meatiness to the sauce in much 
less time.
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, finely diced
2 garlic cloves, peeled 
and smashed
1/2 pound ground beef
1/3 cup dry white wine
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound pasta (or pasta 
from fresh pasta recipes, 
pages 54 and 56)
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
for servings1. Heat oil in a medium saucepan. Add onion and garlic. Cook on 
medium heat until onion softens, about 3 to 4 minutes.
2. Add beef. Brown meat, breaking up into smaller pieces, leaving 
some larger chunks (making for a rustic mixture of meat pieces). 
When the meat is no longer pink, add the wine. Let it sizzle and 
mostly evaporate.
3. Add the can of tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir to 
combine. Simmer for 20 minutes, cover askew.
4. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan. When 
boiling, salt the water. Add the pasta. Cook until al dente. When 
done, drain. Add to a large serving bowl. Spoon on some sauce and 
gently coat. Y ou can add extra sauce on top of individual servings, 
and pass around grated Parmesan.
VARIATION TIP:  For variety, layer this sauce with cooked, cut pasta in a 
casserole dish. Add chunks of mozzarella and bake until bubbly.
PAIR WITH:  Asparagus Wrapped in Prosciutto with Crispy Bread 
Crumbs (page 90)60 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e Olio
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
This recipe is the king of La Spaghettata di Mezzanotte— quick spaghetti dishes you make for 
friends at midnight. Sometimes after an evening on the town, you invite everyone to your place 
and take ten minutes to create a very tasty pasta. I’ve done this in New Y ork City, dragging 
everyone up four flights of stairs to my small studio apartment. Aglio  is garlic. Olio is oil. It’s pretty 
much all you need.
Salt 
1 pound spaghetti
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
and thinly sliced
2 teaspoons crushed red 
pepper flakes, or to taste
Leaves from 4 sprigs 
fresh Italian parsley, 
roughly chopped
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan. Bring to 
a boil. Add 1 tablespoon of salt. Add the spaghetti. Cook until al 
dente. Reserve 3/4 cup of pasta water. Drain the pasta.
2. Meanwhile, add the oil, garlic, and red pepper flakes to a large sauté 
pan. Heat until garlic is just turning golden.
3. Add the drained pasta to the oil and garlic, then cook on 
medium-low heat, tossing pasta in oil. Add the parsley. Season with 
salt and pepper. Add some pasta water to keep the pasta moist and 
to help coat the strands with the oil. When the pasta looks shiny, it’s 
done. Serve hot.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  For quick pasta dishes like this one, always start by 
putting the water on to boil. It’s the step that will take the longest.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs (page 116)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 61    30 Minutes or Less
Spaghetti alla Carbonara
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
Spaghetti alla Carbonara is probably the most iconic pasta dish of Rome. I learned it from 
a Roman when I did an undergraduate year in Rome. Romans are very particular about the 
ingredients. They insist you use guanciale, cured pig’s jowl (not pancetta), and pecorino cheese 
(not Parmigiano-Reggiano). The reason is taste, of course, but for years I made it with pancetta 
and Parmesan, and the dish was just as lovely. This is one of those pasta dishes in which the cook 
time is only as long as it takes for the spaghetti to boil.
Salt
1 pound dried spaghetti
1/4 pound guanciale, 
diced (or pancetta)
1 tablespoon extra-
virgin olive oil
4 large eggs
1 or 2 cups grated pecorino 
cheese or more as needed, 
plus extra for serving
2 teaspoons freshly 
ground black pepper1. Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large saucepan. 
When boiling, add 1 tablespoon of salt, and add the spaghetti. 
While the pasta cooks, make the sauce.
2. In a small skillet, sauté the guanciale  or pancetta in the tablespoon 
of oil until cooked through, about 4 minutes. Set aside.
3. In a large serving bowl, break the eggs, add the cheese and 
pepper, and salt to taste. Mix together thoroughly with a fork. 
Add more cheese if needed, to make a pasty (rather than thin and 
watery) mixture.
4. Just before the pasta is done, spoon out a cup of the pasta water 
and reserve. When pasta is al dente, drain it and immediately add it 
to the bowl containing the egg mixture. Immediately , mix the pasta 
and eggs together. I usually have a wooden spoon and fork at the 
ready, or a pair of tongs. Pull the pasta strands through the eggs 
over and over. The hot pasta will “cook” the egg, and the egg mix -
ture will give the pasta a creamy coat of sauce. When you see the 
pasta has absorbed all the eggy mixture, add the pancetta in its oil, 
and mix thoroughly. Add a few spoonfuls of reserved pasta water if 
the dish is a little dry. Serve hot, passing around extra cheese.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  It’s essential to mix the hot pasta and the egg mixture 
as soon as the pasta lands in the bowl. Have your utensils ready at the 
sides of the bowl so you can begin tossing right away. I usually use a 
wooden spoon in one hand and a large wooden fork in the other hand.
PAIR WITH:  Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and Hot Pepper (page 91)62 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  12 minutes
Cacio  is the cheese; pepe  is the black pepper. And that’s about it for this classic Roman dish. Oh, 
yes, and then there’s the butter—a whole stick. The first time I ate this in Rome, my friend Malena 
(who lives in Rome) led my cooking class group on a very long walk. We finally arrived in the 
neighborhood of Trastevere and to the acclaimed restaurant Roma Sparita. Cacio e Pepe  is their 
claim to fame, and they serve it in bowls made of pecorino cheese. This is a pasta dish that’s easy 
to make at home—another quick spaghettata .
Salt 
1 pound spaghetti
1 stick (8 tablespoons) 
unsalted butter
3 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon freshly 
ground black pepper, 
or more to taste
1 cup grated 
pecorino cheese1. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan. Bring to a 
boil. Add 1 tablespoon of salt. Add the spaghetti. Cook to al dente. 
Reserve 1 cup pasta water before draining.
2. Meanwhile, in a large sauté pan, heat the butter, oil, and pepper 
until butter melts and sizzles a little. Season lightly with salt.
3. When pasta is done, drain it and add it to the sauté pan. Cook 
over medium heat, tossing pasta and coating it with the mixture. 
Add about 1/3 of the cheese, lightly sprinkling. Toss to coat. Add 
about half of the pasta water. Add more cheese, tossing a little at 
a time, until it is all used up. Add more pasta water if needed to 
moisten. Consistency should be a thick, moist coating on the pasta. 
Serve hot.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you like the assertive taste of pepper, try 
increasing the amount of black pepper to 2 tablespoons. Sprinkling the 
cheese little by little helps keep it from clumping up.
PAIR WITH:  One-Pan Sausage and Peppers (page 104)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 63    Vegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
True Fettuccine Alfredo
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  5 minutes | COOK TIME:  12 minutes
Here’s a surprise: There’s no cream in Fettuccine Alfredo. The creaminess is created by mixing 
together Parmesan cheese with butter and then pasta water, using lots of quick stirring and 
tossing. Pasta water contains salt and starch from the just-cooked pasta, which helps add flavor 
to the dish and creates a smooth sauce. This dish originated in Rome, where there’s some quarrel 
over which “alfredo” restaurant created it. In Rome they simply call it pasta with butter.
1 tablespoon salt
1 pound fettuccine pasta 
(or use fresh egg pasta 
fettuccine, page 54)
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted 
butter, at room temperature
2 to 21/2 cups grated 
Parmesan1. Fill a large pasta pot with 4 quarts of water and bring to a boil. Add 
1 tablespoon salt. Add the fettuccine.
2. Meanwhile, slice the butter into thin pats and lay them out in one 
layer along the bottom of a large, shallow serving bowl. Butter 
should be room-temperature soft, but not melting.
3. Cook pasta until al dente. Before draining, reserve 3/4 cup of the 
pasta water. Drain pasta.
4. Pour the drained pasta on top of the butter and sprinkle about one 
quarter of the cheese on top. Using a large fork and spoon, (or two 
forks), toss the pasta quickly, coating it with the butter and cheese. 
Add some of the pasta water—about half. Continue to toss. Add 
the rest of the cheese little by little, tossing and coating in between 
each addition.
5. Keep tossing until the pasta is coated in the creaminess of the 
butter-cheese-water combination. Add more water if mixture is too 
thick. Serve hot.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  It’s important to add the cheese little by little. 
If you add it all at once, it can clump up, and you won’t get a 
creamy consistency.
PAIR WITH:  Cod Acqua Pazza (page 115)64 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOK30 Minutes or Less
Amalfi Lemony Tuna Capellini
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  8 minutes
Along the Amalfi Coast are small towns built into the cliffs by the sea. Y ou can park yourself at 
one of their restaurants and have the sea glimmering in your eyes, with giant lemons hanging 
from the vine above you. This dish encapsulates the fresh atmosphere and briny lemony taste 
from Amalfi. The sauce requires nothing more than a bit of chopping, so by the time your pasta is 
done cooking, you’ll be ready to serve the whole meal.
Salt 
1 pound capellini pasta
1 (5-ounce) can tuna, 
preferably packed 
in olive oil
3 medium lemons, 
zested and juiced
2 garlic cloves, peeled 
and minced
Leaves from 5 to 6 sprigs 
fresh Italian parsley, minced
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, or more as needed
1/2 cup grated Parmesan, 
plus more for serving
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan. Bring 
to a boil.
2. When water boils, add 1 tablespoon salt. Add the capellini. Cook 
to al dente.
3. Drain tuna and break it up into flakes. Put tuna in a large mixing 
bowl. Add lemon zest, lemon juice, garlic, parsley, 1/4 cup olive oil, 
and grated Parmesan. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Mix all 
to combine.
4. When pasta is done, reserve 1/2 cup pasta water. Drain pasta. Add 
cooked capellini to lemon-tuna mixture. Toss to combine and 
coat. Add a little pasta water or olive oil to moisten if needed. Salt 
to taste.
5. Serve with extra grated cheese for individual servings.
VARIATION TIP:  This recipe is also delicious without the tuna, so feel 
free to leave out the fish for a lemony vegetarian option.
PAIR WITH:  Clams Oreganata (page 20)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 65    Vegetarian
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and Crispy Bread
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 to 25 minutes
When I lived in Rome for a year as an undergrad student, my best friend, Malena, was the 
daughter of an American diplomat stationed in Rome. Malena and I remained friends for years. 
She stayed in Rome and married a Roman. Recently, when I went to Rome with a group of my 
cooking class students, Malena came to our apartment and demonstrated this classic Roman fall 
recipe. It’s another one of those genius dishes that is very simple, yet incredibly tasty.
1 large head cauliflower
1 tablespoon salt, 
plus more to taste
1 loaf Italian peasant 
bread, or similar
1/2 cup extra-virgin 
olive oil, divided
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
and minced
1 pound orecchiette 
pasta, or other favorite 
short, cut pasta
1/2 cup grated pecorino 
or Parmesan cheese, 
plus more for serving1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan. Bring 
to a boil.
3. Cut the cauliflower in half. Cut out the bottom core and discard. 
Cut the rest of the cauliflower into 2-inch floweret pieces. When 
the water comes to a boil, add 1 tablespoon salt. Add cauliflower.
4. Meanwhile, tear up the Italian bread into bite-size pieces. Toss 
bread with about 1/4 cup olive oil, then add the minced garlic. 
Spread out on a sheet pan and bake in a hot oven until golden and 
crispy, about 8 minutes. Set aside.
5. When cauliflower is tender, add the orecchiette pasta to the pot. 
Cook until al dente. Reserve a cup of pasta water.
6. Drain pasta and cauliflower and transfer to a large serving bowl. 
Cauliflower should have broken down more, and some of it should 
be almost like a cream. Add the bread and 1/2 cup of grated cheese. 
Toss to combine. Add a little olive oil to coat. Add some pasta water 
to moisten. Check seasoning and add salt if needed. Serve with 
extra cheese on the side.
VARIATION TIP:  The ratio of these ingredients to each other can 
change and shift and still have a great result: less cauliflower, or more; less 
bread, or more; less cheese, or more. It’s all good. Y ou might also like to 
add a little hot pepper, which is a great addition if you like things spicy.
PAIR WITH:  Spice-Rubbed Pork Tenderloin (page 106)66 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and Cream
SERVES:  4 to 5 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
A friend of mine in New Y ork who used to be a restaurant cook (and then a celebrated composer), 
gave me this recipe. Once I tried it, I cooked it every week—especially when zucchini was in 
season and in abundance. Calling for only a few ingredients, this is a meal that’s at once delicate 
and light, deep and full-flavored.
Salt 
1 pound farfalle 
(bow tie) pasta
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, diced
2 medium zucchini, 
trimmed and grated
1/4 cup dry white wine
1/2 cup heavy cream
Grated Parmesan, 
for serving1. Heat 4 quarts of water in a pasta pot or large saucepan until 
boiling. Add 1 tablespoon of salt, and the pasta.
2. Heat the butter and oil in a large sauté pan with about 2-inch sides 
(to hold pasta later). Sauté onion until soft, over medium-high 
heat, about 3 minutes. Add grated zucchini. Cook until zucchini is 
rapidly simmering; add the wine, cook 3 to 4 minutes, then add the 
cream. Let simmer till cream reduces a bit. Season with salt.
3. When pasta is done, drain and add to zucchini sauce, reserving 
1/2 cup of the pasta water. Heat and coat pasta with zucchini sauce; 
cook for another 2 minutes. Add a bit of pasta water or olive oil 
(or even a bit of cream or butter) if too dry. Transfer to a serving 
platter. Sprinkle with some grated Parmesan. Bring some grated 
Parmesan to the table for individual servings.
PAIR WITH:  Arugula-Radicchio Salad with Pears and Gorgonzola 
(page 36)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 67    Vegetarian
Penne with Roasted Cherry Tomato Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Why stand at the stove, when you can make a great tomato sauce on a baking sheet in the oven? 
Here, delicate cherry tomatoes roasted with fresh herbs and garlic become a caramelized, deeply 
flavorful pasta sauce. Feel free to make this recipe vegan by omitting the grated Parmesan cheese 
at the end.
1 pint cherry or 
grape tomatoes
3 cloves garlic, peeled 
and smashed
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 tablespoons dry 
white wine
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon salt, 
plus more to taste
3 sprigs fresh Italian parsley
3 sprigs fresh thyme
1 pound penne pasta
1/2 cup grated Parmesan 
(optional)1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Line a sheet pan with foil. Toss the tomatoes and garlic with the oil 
and wine, and spread out in a layer in the pan.
3. Sprinkle the mixture with sugar. Season with salt to taste. Scatter 
the parsley and thyme over the tomatoes. Roast in the oven for 
about 30 minutes until the tomatoes are tender and starting 
to brown.
4. Meanwhile, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large 
saucepan. Add 1 tablespoon of salt. Drop in the penne and cook 
until al dente, about 8 minutes, or according to package directions.
5. Spoon half of the tomato sauce into a large, shallow serving bowl. 
Add a few tablespoons of pasta water. Drain the penne and add it 
to bowl; top with the rest of the sauce and gently stir to coat. Serve 
with some grated Parmesan to pass around the table.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can roast the tomatoes for about 10 minutes 
longer, until they’re more blistered and slightly charred. This will give an 
almost smoky flavor to the sauce.
PAIR WITH:  Chicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers (page 100)68 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Linguine with Fra Diavolo Shrimp Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
When you see the term fra diavolo  in Italian cooking, you know something spicy is coming. This 
recipe has been in my family since forever, and it’s a top favorite. We’ve cooked it with shrimp, 
with clams, with blue-claw crabs, and even with lobster. But shrimp was the first and is the most 
frequent star. Almost all shrimp you buy in the store is frozen. Be sure to thaw the shrimp before 
using it in this recipe.
3 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 pound raw shrimp, peeled 
and deveined, tails removed
Salt
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
and minced
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Leaves from 4 or 5 sprigs 
fresh Italian parsley, minced
1/2 teaspoon red pepper 
flakes (or to taste)
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
1 pound linguine1. Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in a large saucepan until hot.
2. Season shrimp lightly with salt. Add shrimp to pan with oil. Cook, 
tossing, until shrimp are almost cooked through and pink. Remove 
shrimp from pan to a plate and reserve.
3. Add garlic, oregano, parsley, and pepper flakes. Cook for 
1 to 2 minutes. Add the wine. Let the wine evaporate. Add the 
tomatoes. Stir to combine. Season with salt. Simmer gently for 
10 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or 
large saucepan. When boiling, add 1 tablespoon of salt. Drop in 
the linguine. Stir, keeping strands from sticking together until 
water comes back to a boil. Cook the linguine to al dente, about 
8 minutes, or according to package directions.
5. When you add the linguine to the water, add the shrimp back 
to the sauce, then simmer gently until pasta is cooked, about 
8 minutes more.
6. Drain the linguine and put it in a serving bowl. Add the sauce and 
shrimp. Stir to combine. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Some Italian cooks believe you shouldn’t add grated 
cheese to a seafood pasta dish, as the cheese might make the dish too 
salty. A tasty alternative is to sprinkle toasted bread crumbs on top of 
your serving. Just heat a little olive oil in a small frying pan, add 1/2 cup 
bread crumbs, and stir over medium heat until the bread crumbs are 
lightly toasted.
PAIR WITH:  Lightly Fried Calamari (page 121)PASTAS  AND  SAUCES  | 69    Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and Sausage
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  35 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
What could be better than a casserole dish filled with hot, saucy pasta and oozy melted cheese? 
Spaghetti is an unusual and fun choice for this baked pasta recipe, giving you lots of noodles to 
play with. This preparation may take a little time, but it’s so worth it. It’s also great the day after 
you make it—if it doesn’t get scarfed down first.
4 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, divided
1 medium onion, diced
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt
4 or 5 Italian sausages
1 pound spaghetti
1 pound mozzarella, 
shredded with a box grater
1/2 cup grated 
Parmesan, divided
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a medium saucepan. Sauté the 
diced onion until softened, about 3 minutes. Add the toma -
toes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir to combine. Simmer for 
10 minutes. Reserve.
3. Remove the sausage meat from the casings. Heat a tablespoon of 
olive oil in a large sauté pan. Break up the sausage meat and add 
to the oil, using a spatula to break the meat into smaller pieces as 
it cooks. Sauté the meat until browned, 4 to 5 minutes. Coat the 
sausage with a little tomato sauce. Set aside.
4. Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large saucepan. 
Add 1 tablespoon of salt, and spaghetti. Cook until al dente. Drain 
and transfer to a large mixing bowl. Coat the pasta with some 
tomato sauce. Add the mozzarella. Add the cooked sausage meat 
and stir to combine. Blend in half of the grated Parmesan.
5. Spread a thin layer of sauce on the bottom of a casserole pan 
(9-by-13-inch or similar). Fill with the pasta mixture, and smooth 
evenly. Spoon a little sauce on top. Sprinkle with the rest of the 
grated Parmesan.
6. Bake for about 30 minutes until the surface is golden and bubbling. 
Let stand about 5 to 10 minutes before cutting into squares or 
scooping with a spoon to serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can try this recipe with almost any cut of pasta; 
penne or ziti would be my pick.
PAIR WITH:  Sicilian Orange and Fennel Salad (page 33)70 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  30 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Here’s a real Italian American classic. It’s a family-pleaser, a crowd-pleaser, and a great potluck 
dish. Y ou can double and triple the amount easily to accommodate any number of servings.
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 small onion, diced
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt
12 ounces large pasta shells
8 ounces mozzarella
1 pound ricotta cheese
3/4 cup grated 
Parmesan, divided
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a medium saucepan. Add onion, and cook 
until softened, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes; season with 
salt and pepper. Simmer sauce for 10 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, bring 4 quarts of water to a boil in a pasta pot or large 
saucepan. Add 1 tablespoon of salt and the pasta shells. Cook the 
shells until al dente . Drain.
4. Grate the mozzarella using the large holes of a box grater. In a 
medium mixing bowl, mix together the ricotta, grated mozzarella, 
and 1/2 cup of the Parmesan. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
5. Put a few spoonfuls of tomato sauce in the bottom of a large 
casserole dish, enough to coat it completely. Holding one of the 
cooked pasta shells in your hand, fill it with the cheese mixture. 
Place it in the casserole dish with the opening facing up. Repeat 
with the rest of the shells, placing the filled shells in one layer. 
Spoon a light layer of tomato sauce over them. Sprinkle on the rest 
of the grated Parmesan.
6. Bake the shells in the oven until the cheese is golden and the shells 
are bubbling, about 30 minutes. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  These large shells just love to be filled. Try mixing in 
some cooked spinach with the cheese filling. Or make this a meat dish by 
filling the shells with cooked ground meat or sausage.
PAIR WITH:  Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa Verde (page 111)Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita, page 7873    
6
Pizza, Breads,  
and Focaccia
It seems there’s always a basket or bowl of bread on the table at mealtimes in Italy. 
However, unlike Americans, Italians enjoy their bread plain or with food; there’s no 
butter for slathering, nor oil for dipping. Bakeries, called panetteria  (pane  means “bread” 
in Italian), sell many shapes of bread and rolls, panini, focaccia, and pizza to go. Baked 
goods—sometimes sold by weight—are available throughout Italy, but you can make some 
of these Italian classic staples at home using the recipes in this chapter.
For fresh bread and pizza, there are the customary steps of making the dough, letting it 
rise, and then shaping and baking it. I’ve simplified the process as much as possible for the 
purpose of this book, and while these are not difficult recipes to follow, the rising process 
makes them time-consuming. Do not be put off by the length of some of these recipes; I 
wanted to include any detail that would be helpful for achieving a perfect end result.
In the following pages, you’ll find a variety of pizzas: Grilled Pizza with Burrata and Fresh 
Tomatoes (page 76), Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita (page 78), and Sweet Pear Pizza with 
Brown Sugar and Sage (page 79). Make these recipes using store-bought dough, or try 
your hand at homemade pizza dough using the recipe on page 74. In this chapter, you’ll 
also find an authentic focaccia recipe (page 83) from the region of Liguria. Other recipes 
are quick and inventive, such as Parmigiano Popovers (page 82) and Parmigiano Crackers 
(page 81). And there are even a few recipes that transform store-bought puff pastry into 
pizza and bread sticks, making it a snap to bring tasty breads to your Italian table.
Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita, page 7874 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Dairy-Free
Dad’s Homemade Pizza Dough
MAKES:  4 10-inch pizzas, or 12 6-inch pizzas | PREP TIME:  20 minutes, plus 3 hours rising time
I watched my dad make this dough all through my childhood, and those memories are 
accompanied by the heady scent of yeast. The difference between this recipe and most other pizza 
doughs is one ingredient: egg—an addition somehow derived from my dad’s Sicilian background. 
Making fresh dough is an adventure. The process is time-consuming, but the steps are easy to 
follow, and the results are incredibly rewarding.
5 cups all-purpose flour, 
plus extra for kneading
2 teaspoons salt
11/2 cups warm water
21/4 teaspoons active  
dry yeast (one  
1/4-ounce envelope)
1 teaspoon sugar
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive 
oil, plus 1 teaspoon 
to coat the dough
1 large egg1. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the flour and salt. In a 
medium bowl or large measuring cup combine 11/2 cups warm 
water (tepid: not too hot, not too cool) with the yeast and the 
sugar; stir once gently. In a small bowl or cup, mix the olive oil with 
the egg.
2. Make a well in the center of the flour. When the yeast has 
“bloomed” (puffed up), pour the yeast water into the well. Pour the 
egg-and-olive-oil mixture into the well. With a large spoon, gently 
stir the flour and wet ingredients to roughly combine.
3. Start kneading the dough with your hands, pushing together the 
wet “rags” of dough until you have an amalgamated ball of dough. 
Then, take it out of the bowl and continue to knead on a clean work 
surface. If the dough is sticky, dust with extra flour (a quarter cup 
at a time) until you can handle it well. Knead for about 5 minutes 
until you have smooth ball of dough.
4. Smooth a thin film of olive oil all over the surface of the dough. 
Place the dough back in the bowl, or in another large mixing bowl. 
Cover top of bowl with 2 to 3 layers of clean dry kitchen towels. 
Leave the bowl of dough in a warm, draft-free place. Let rise about 
2 hours. It will double in size.PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 75    5. After it rises, scoop the dough out onto a work surface. Using 
a knife or bench scraper, cut into four large pieces if you want 
to make approximately 10-inch pizzas. Or cut into 12 pieces for 
smaller, individual pizzas. Shape each piece into a ball by rolling 
it on your work surface. Wrap each ball loosely in an oil-sprayed 
or lightly oiled piece of plastic. Don’t wrap it too tightly, since 
dough should continue to rise. Place wrapped balls on a sheet pan, 
and cover with a double layer of kitchen towels. Let rise about an 
hour more.
6. After dough balls rise a second time, they’re ready to use in one 
of the recipes in this chapter. Or you can freeze them, wrapped in 
plastic. (Let the dough thaw and reach room temperature before 
shaping and baking.)
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you have a stand mixer, you can turn the 
kneading process into short work. Place the ingredients in the stand 
mixer bowl for steps 1 and 2. Using the dough hook, mix for about 3 to 
4 minutes for step 3. Then, proceed with the rest of the recipe.76 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and Fresh Tomatoes
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
If you’ve got a grill, this is the easiest pizza you’ll ever make. No grill? Y ou can try this in your 
oven (see “Tip” below). But the fun part of this recipe is to let the crust get a little charred from 
the grill flames. How do you get a floppy piece of dough to cook on a grill? All it takes is a flick 
of the wrist. In this recipe I’m using burrata  for a pizza topping, which is a cheese originating in 
the region of Puglia. It’s similar to fresh mozzarella, except when you cut it open, a loose, creamy 
cheese spills out. If you can’t find burrata , fresh mozzarella is a good substitute.
1 pound ready-made 
pizza dough (or 1/2 recipe 
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, page 74)
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
Nonstick cooking spray
3 cups cherry or grape 
tomatoes, halved
4 (2-ounce) balls 
burrata, quartered
Salt
1 cup baby arugula1. Make sure your dough is at room temperature. It’s easier to handle 
and stretch when it’s not cold. Cut dough into 4 even pieces. Roll 
each piece into a ball. Gently press out into a circle. Stretch dough 
to make a bigger circle, 7 or 8 inches wide, by holding down the 
center and gently pulling the edges out. Lightly spread oil on the 
dough on both sides, and place on a sheet pan, cookie sheet, plate, 
or pizza peel.
2. Spray the grill grate with nonstick cooking spray before heating. 
Heat the grill to medium hot. When hot, lift one edge of the dough 
with both hands. The rest of the dough will hang. In one quick, 
deliberate movement, place dough flat onto the grill grate.
3. Let cook for 3 to 4 minutes, until the dough stiffens and grill marks 
appear on the underside. Flip dough over using tongs, and pull off 
onto a plate, peel, sheet pan, or cutting board, cooked-side up. The 
cooked side will be the top of your pie.
4. Top your pizza: Drizzle a little olive oil, scatter the tomatoes, and 
place burrata  pieces. Season with salt and drizzle a little more 
oil on top.
5. Using tongs, slide dough back onto grill for the bottom side to cook 
and the toppings to cook and melt. Cook until grill lines appear on 
bottom, some char marks appear along the sides, and the toppings 
are bubbling, about 5 minutes. Using tongs, slide finished pizza off 
onto plate or cutting board. Top with a handful of arugula.PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 77    VARIATION TIP:  If you don’t have a grill, use the same process with 
a sheet pan in a 450°F oven. Press the dough into a flattened circle and 
place it on a lightly oiled sheet pan. Bake until the dough is golden, then 
remove it from the oven and add the toppings. Return to oven and bake 
until the toppings bubble and the crust is browned on the edges.
PAIR WITH:  Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy Fennel (page 97)
SALT
What to buy
There are many different kinds of salt in the grocery store, and some home cooks (like 
me) get attached to particular types and brands. I use kosher salt, because I find it has 
the best quality and is the most versatile in the kitchen. Regular “table” salt has very fine, 
cube-shaped granules and is much saltier than kosher salt. In contrast, kosher salt’s 
snowflake-shaped granules adhere to food better, and it has less sodium per teaspoon 
than table salt.
Look for finer-grain kosher salt (salts labeled “coarse” are only good for broader uses, 
like salting pasta water, not for seasoning). I prefer Diamond Crystal brand, as it is lower 
in sodium than the Morton’s brand, which makes it easier to control the seasoning of 
your food.
For last-minute seasoning, or garnishes for fresh-baked bread or focaccia, finishing 
salts are worth the splurge. My favorites are Trapani sea salts, Himalayan pink salts, and 
French grey salts.
How to use it
Salt can make the difference between a mediocre dish and one that pops with flavor. You 
never want anything to taste salty, but you need to season your dish enough to bring out 
its inherent flavors. Always taste a dish before adding salt, then add a little at a time until 
it reaches peak flavor.
78 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 to 20 minutes
Pizza Margherita  is the pizza of Naples. It has the colors of the Italian flag—red, green, and 
white—and was created in honor of Queen Margherita of Italy. Traditionally, it’s a thin round of 
dough using Italian “00” flour, San Marzano tomatoes, and buffalo mozzarella. But here we take 
some liberties and fashion the Italian flag pizza in a cast iron pan with similar ingredients that are 
easy to find. The result: delicious.
1 large garlic clove, 
peeled and halved
Salt
1 cup canned crushed 
tomatoes
1/2 pound ready-made 
pizza dough (or 1/4 recipe 
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, page 74)
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
1/2 cup sliced 
mozzarella cheese
3 or 4 fresh basil leaves1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. Add the garlic and some salt to the tomatoes and let it sit for flavors 
to combine as you work with the dough.
3. Make sure the dough is at room temperature; it’s easier to handle 
than when it’s cold. Gently press the dough out into a circle the size 
of a 9-inch cast iron pan (or press into a thinner round of dough 
for a 12-inch cast iron pan). Y ou can also stretch dough by holding 
the center and gently pulling the edges out.
4. Heat the cast iron pan in the oven on the bottom rack until very 
hot, about 5 minutes. Take out of the oven. Drizzle a little bit of 
olive oil in the pan. Place the dough circle carefully in the pan—the 
pan is hot. Try to push the dough up the sides along the edges (use 
a spoon if needed and watch your fingers). Drizzle a little olive oil 
on top. Put pizza back in the oven.
5. When the dough is starting to brown on the bottom and bubbling 
up on the top—about 5 minutes—take it out of the oven. Poke bub -
bles with a knife to let out steam and let the dough deflate some.
6. Spoon crushed tomatoes to cover the whole top lightly. Place moz -
zarella slices on top. Season with salt. Drizzle a little olive oil on top.
7. Place the pizza back in the oven until the bottom and edges are 
browned and the top is bubbling—5 to 8 minutes.
8. Remove pan, and transfer pizza with a pair of tongs to a plate or 
cutting board. Garnish with basil leaves. Cut into wedges. Serve hot.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  Pay extra close attention when handling the cast iron 
pan. It’s hot, and there’s a lot of movement in and out of the oven. When 
the pan is out of the oven, place a pot holder on the handle to remind 
yourself it’s hot.
PAIR WITH:  Caesar Salad with Garlic-Anchovy Dressing (page 37)PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 79    Vegan, Dairy-Free, One-Pan
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown Sugar and Sage
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
This recipe is a riff on a sweet Tuscan classic that features grapes on pizza. Sweet and pizza don’t 
seem to go together, but actually it’s a perfect match. The savory ingredients, olive oil and sage, 
balance the sweetness of the two sugars. It makes a dessert that’s light and not overly cloying. To 
get the best crunch, let the dough get crispy-brown around the edges when baking.
1 pound ready-made 
pizza dough (or 1/2 recipe 
of Dad’s Homemade 
Pizza Dough, page 74)
2 Bartlett pears, peeled, 
cored, and thinly sliced
1/2 cup granulated 
sugar (or to taste)
1/4 cup packed light 
brown sugar
8 to 10 fresh sage leaves
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Make sure dough is at room temperature. Press and stretch out 
dough into a thin, flat disc or oblong shape. Lay dough on a lightly 
oiled, parchment-paper-lined baking sheet.
3. Place the pear slices in a design on top of the dough, pressing 
them in lightly. Leave a narrow border of dough on the outside 
edge. Sprinkle evenly with sugars. Sprinkle most of the sage but 
leave some to sprinkle when pizza is done, as garnish. Drizzle olive 
oil on top.
4. Bake about 20 minutes until crusty and golden. Garnish with 
reserved sage leaves. Cut into wedges or squares to serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Feel free to swap out the pears for thinly sliced fresh 
peaches or apples, nectarines, or grapes. And you might like to switch the 
herb, too. Rosemary works just as well as sage in this recipe.
PAIR WITH:  Venetian Scroppino (page 17)80 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Puff Pastry Pizza
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
Super delicate and crispy, this thin, quick-to-make pizza will be an immediate favorite. All you 
need is a box of puff pastry from the store. I recommend an all-butter puff pastry, if possible. 
Check the ingredients on the box to see if butter is included instead of oil.
Flour for dusting
1 sheet frozen puff 
pastry, thawed
3 medium tomatoes, 
thinly sliced
1/2 cup grated mozzarella
1/2 cup pitted, 
kalamata olives
1/2 red onion, peeled 
and thinly sliced
2 teaspoons dried oregano
2 or 3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. On a lightly floured surface, roll out pastry sheet to about 1/8 inch 
thick. Place on a parchment-paper-lined, rimmed baking sheet.
3. Place the tomato slices on top in one layer, leaving an inch free 
around the edges as a border. Sprinkle evenly with the cheese, 
olives, onion, and oregano. Drizzle lightly with olive oil. Season 
with salt and pepper.
4. Bake in the oven for about 25 minutes until the pastry is golden. 
Cut into squares. Serve warm or at room temperature.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  When rolling out the dough, try not to let the center 
get too thin; keeping the dough thickness even throughout will prevent 
under- or overcooking the crust.
PAIR WITH:  Crispy Artichoke Hearts with Aioli Dip (page 19)PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 81    Vegetarian
Parmigiano Crackers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes, plus 1 hour to chill | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Y ou don’t usually see crackers in Italian cooking, but these buttery, cheesy crackers capture 
Italian flavors in a fun, crunchy way. They have streaks of sun-dried tomato, making them pretty, 
too. The rolled-out dough looks like an intricate abstract painting. A pile of these are a great 
accompaniment to an aperitivo . Serve them at a cocktail party, or as a snack while watching TV .
1/4 cup unsalted butter 
(4 tablespoons), at 
room temperature
11/4 cups grated Parmesan
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly 
ground black pepper
Pinch hot pepper, or to taste
1 egg, lightly beaten
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon minced 
sun-dried tomato
1 tablespoon minced 
fresh rosemary leaves1. Place the butter, Parmesan, salt, pepper, hot pepper, and egg in a 
large mixing bowl. With a large mixing spoon, mash together the 
ingredients until well blended. Add the flour, sun-dried tomato, 
and rosemary. Mix till combined.
2. Knead dough into a neat ball. Cover with plastic wrap and refriger -
ate for about an hour.
3. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
4. Roll dough out on a lightly floured surface to about 1/8 inch thick. 
Using a small round cookie or biscuit cutter (1-inch to 11/2-inch), 
cut out small circles. Place circles on a parchment-paper-lined 
baking sheet.
5. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes until golden. Let cool for about 
10 minutes before serving.
VARIATION TIP:  Switch out the rosemary or sun-dried tomatoes 
for other favorites like dried or fresh minced oregano, minced olives, 
or minced chives. If you have a hand mixer, use it to combine dough 
before kneading.
PAIR WITH:  Peach Bellini (page 15)82 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Parmigiano Popovers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  50 minutes
I’ve given these popovers an Italian flair with the addition of Parmesan cheese. They are light, airy, 
and irresistible—lovely hot from the oven or at room temperature. Using a popover pan is perfect, 
but a muffin pan with medium-size cups will work, too—your popovers just won’t rise as high. 
The recipe is for 6 medium-size popovers, or 12 mini-popovers.
2 tablespoons unsalted 
butter, divided
3/4 cup flour, plus more 
for dusting the pan
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup grated Parmesan
2 large eggs
1 cup milk1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. Melt a tablespoon of butter. Lightly coat the pan cups with butter, 
then dust them with flour, shaking out excess flour.
3. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together flour, salt, and Parmesan. In 
a separate medium mixing bowl, whisk the eggs, then whisk in the 
milk until well combined. Melt the other tablespoon of butter, let 
cool a minute, then whisk into the egg mixture.
4. Slowly whisk the egg mixture into the flour mixture. Continue 
to whisk until combined. Don’t worry about making it abso -
lutely smooth.
5. Spoon batter into prepared popover cups (or muffin cups) 
until each is about two-thirds full. Place in oven and bake for 
15 minutes. Then turn oven temperature down to 350 degrees. 
Bake for about 35 minutes more, or until deep golden brown.
6. Remove popovers from pan to a cooling rack or plate. Poke a 
paring knife into the top of each one to allow steam to escape. 
Serve immediately or let cool a bit. They should be slightly hollow 
when pulled open. These are great slathered with butter or drizzled 
with honey (or both).
TIME-SAVING TIP:  Feel free to make these a day ahead. Popovers can 
be gently wrapped in foil and refrigerated overnight; just reheat them 
right before serving.
PAIR WITH:  Italian Wedding Soup with Mini Meatballs (page 29)PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 83    Vegan, Dairy-Free
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary and Olives
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 2 hours inactive rising time | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
One summer I stayed in the Riviera at a beautiful villa high in the hills. The town was tiny, 
with just one little store selling fresh bread and focaccia in the morning. By the time we got 
our rectangle of focaccia home from our 5-minute walk to the store, the paper bag was stained 
through with olive oil. Olive oil and focaccia are very good friends, so don’t be intimidated by 
how much is called for in this fabulous Riviera-style bread.
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly 
ground black pepper
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 cup warm water
2 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup 
extra-virgin olive oil, divided
Leaves from 2 to 3 sprigs  
fresh rosemary
1/2 cup of pitted 
kalamata olives, or 
favorite pitted olives
1/4 teaspoon finishing 
salt, or regular salt1. Combine the flour, salt, and pepper in a large mixing bowl. Whisk 
to combine. Place the yeast and sugar in a small mixing bowl; add 
1 cup warm water. Stir once. When yeast puffs up (blooms), add 
2 tablespoons olive oil.
2. Make a well in the center of the flour mixture. Pour in the wet 
ingredients. Whisk together gently until flour is all absorbed and 
the mixture looks smooth, 1 to 2 minutes. It will be a very wet, 
almost batter-like dough. Cover dough in bowl with a clean kitchen 
towel. Place in a warm, draft-free spot and let dough rise until 
doubled, about 11/2 hours.
3. Pour 1/4 cup of olive oil in a quarter-sheet pan or rimmed jelly roll 
pan (approximately 9-by-13-inches). Pour out the dough into the pan 
without folding it, using a spatula to help. Poke your fingers into some 
of the oil, so the dough won’t stick as you poke down the dough to 
fill pan. Push it into the corners and try to even out the thickness all 
around. Poking the dough gives it the characteristic pocked surface 
of focaccia. Cover the dough with a piece of parchment paper and 
then a kitchen towel. Let rise about 30 minutes more.
4. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
5. When the dough has risen a second time, discard parchment paper. 
Poke your fingers to make impressions again; scatter the rosemary 
and olives over the surface, and sprinkle finishing salt on top. Bake 
focaccia in the hot oven for about 20 minutes until golden. Allow 
to cool a few minutes before loosening from pan with a spatula. 
Cut into squares or strips.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  I usually cut off 1/2 inch of the edges all around, 
before cutting into squares or strips. The edges are sometimes too 
crunchy, but some people love that part the best.
PAIR WITH:  Americano (page 16)84 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Y ou see bread sticks all over Italy and in Italian restaurants everywhere else. In Italy they call them 
grissini , and they come thick, thin, plain, or with seeds. These bread sticks are very light, with a 
great crunch. The sesame seeds, cheese, and hot pepper play well together, making a fun punch of 
flavor. Serve them with appetizers, at the table for lunch or dinner, or just as a snack.
1 sheet puff pastry, thawed
1 egg
1–2 teaspoons water 
3/4 cup sesame seeds
1/2 cup grated Parmesan
1 tablespoon cayenne
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 425°F.
2. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out puff pastry to about 
50 percent bigger than the original sheet. Keep to a rectangle shape. 
Beat the egg with a teaspoon or two of water and brush lightly on 
the surface of the dough. Sprinkle sesame seeds and Parmesan 
evenly over the surface. Sprinkle the cayenne (according to taste) 
evenly, and season with salt and pepper.
3. Using a knife or pizza cutter, cut dough in half across the width of 
the dough. Then cut each section lengthwise into 1/2-inch strips.
4. Line a sheet/baking pan with parchment paper. Lift each bread 
strip and twist it a couple of times, then line it up on the sheet pan. 
Repeat with the rest of the strips of flavored dough (you’ll probably 
need 2 sheet pans). Bake for 10 to 15 minutes until golden. Cool 
before storing. Bread sticks keep at room temperature, wrapped in 
foil, for as long as a week.
PAIR WITH:  Chopped Caprese Salad with Balsamic Vinegar (page 35)PIZZA, B READS, AND  FOCACCIA   | 85    Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta and Ham
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 15 minutes to cool | COOK TIME:  1 hour
This is a fun, cakey loaf to pair with savory dishes. It can be whipped up easily and keeps for 3 to 
4 days, wrapped in foil at room temperature. If you don’t have a loaf pan, try using an 8-by-8-inch 
“brownie” pan. It will probably take less time baking—watch for its color turning golden. I love to 
slather toasted slices of this bread with butter for a decadent snack.
1 tablespoon unsalted 
butter, for greasing the pan
1 cup grated Parmesan
2 cups all-purpose 
flour, plus more for 
flouring the pan
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons salt
3 large eggs
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup ricotta
1/3 cup diced ham or salami1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Lightly butter and flour a 9-by-5-inch 
loaf pan. Shake out any excess flour.
2. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the Parmesan, flour, baking 
powder, and salt until well combined.
3. In a separate medium mixing bowl, whisk together the eggs, 
olive oil, cream, and ricotta until well combined. Stir in the ham 
(or salami).
4. Gently whisk the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients, mixing 
until the flour mixture is completely absorbed. The batter will look 
a little spongy.
5. Add the batter to the loaf pan and smooth the surface.
6. Bake for 60 to 70 minutes until golden. Cool 15 minutes. Take out 
of the pan. Cool completely. Slice and serve.
PAIR WITH:  The Antipasto Platter (page 18)Eggplant Parmigiana,  
page 9287    
7
Vegetables and Legumes
Italy is right in the middle of the map that delineates the Mediterranean Diet—a 
way of eating that’s praised for all of its heart-healthy benefits. In this diet, there 
is less reliance on meat, and more emphasis on fresh vegetables and fruit, legumes, 
and the use of olive oil. Plus, those following the Mediterranean diet are encouraged 
to eat with the seasons, enjoying produce grown close to home, soon after it’s picked 
from the fields. When you go to a produce market in Italy, each vegetable and fruit 
has a sign that announces its price and also its origin. Everything comes from Italy, 
but Italian shoppers want a more precise knowledge of where their food comes from. 
So, if you’re buying tomatoes in a Venice market, the sign might say “Sicilia,” or the 
artichokes might say “Puglia.” Some signs simply say Nostro , meaning “ours,” which 
means the vegetables were grown right in that region.
Vegetables play a large role in Italian cooking. And there are so many vegetables 
that are particularly Italian; for example, fennel, artichokes, escarole, zucchini, and 
broccoli rabe (also known as rapini). Italians have embraced tomatoes, eggplant, and 
peppers, too, all of which are exceptionally rich in vitamins and minerals. Legumes 
like lentils and chickpeas are well-loved in Italy, and the two recipes in this chap -
ter, Garlicky Lentils with Fried Croutons (page 96), and Chickpeas with Sage and 
Crunchy Fennel (page 97), are tasty examples of how a simple, yet protein-rich 
food can become so full of flavor. Consider going Italian-style and making vegeta -
bles and legumes a larger portion of your dinner plate.
88 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Roman Sautéed Peas with Pancetta and Onion
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
I call these “Roman” peas because I learned the recipe in Rome. I was a college student, focused 
on a totally absorbing course load. But in between classes, hallway conversations with classmates 
always centered on food. My Italian culture professor described this recipe to me during one of 
those breaks, and I’ve been making it ever since. It’s deceptively simple, but I can eat a whole bowl 
of these peas for lunch all on their own.
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
1/3 cup diced pancetta
1 medium onion, peeled, 
halved, thinly sliced
1/4 cup wine
1 pound frozen peas
1/4 cup water
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper1. Heat olive oil in a medium sauté pan. Add the pancetta. Cook until 
lightly browned, 2 to 3 minutes.
2. Add the onion and cook until softened, 3 to 4 minutes. Add wine. 
Let it simmer for a minute or so until mostly evaporated.
3. Add peas and 1/4 cup of water. Cook until peas are thawed, about 
3 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Drizzle with a little olive 
oil. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Sometimes I add bite-size pieces of asparagus to this 
recipe. Let the asparagus cook with the onion before adding the peas.
PAIR WITH:  Chicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers (page 100)
ORGANIC VS. NONORGANIC
At the turn of the 20th century, Italian farms were all pretty much organic. Then 
20th-century industrialization brought larger farming practices and pesticides to farms 
worldwide, including Italy, and the smaller organic farms lost their foothold in the food 
system. Thankfully, in recent years, demand for organic farming has returned, and a lot 
of Italian farms are reaching back to their original organic practices.
Here in America, more and more organic vegetables fill supermarket produce sec -
tions, and prices for organic vegetables are becoming competitive with that of their 
nonorganic (i.e., conventional) counterparts, making it possible for just about anyone to 
eat more healthfully. However, since not all organic produce fits into my budget, I try to 
buy organic for the items that are known to contain the most pesticides in conventional 
produce, such as celery, carrots, and spinach.
VEGETABLES  AND  LEGUMES  | 89    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot and Parmigiano
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
For all of the times I’ve cooked asparagus, it still feels like an “elegant” vegetable. I tried growing 
asparagus. When you see that single stalk pointing straight up from the ground, you have even 
more appreciation for what a wonder of a vegetable it is. I always cook asparagus simply. It has 
plenty of flavor on its own. Y ou don’t want to overcook it, though. Watch the color; it should still 
be bright green and crisp-tender when done.
1 bunch asparagus 
(about 1 pound) rinsed
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
1 shallot, peeled and diced
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/4 cup grated Parmesan1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Cut off (or snap off) the woody ends of the asparagus and discard.
3. Line a medium baking pan with foil and drizzle a little olive oil to 
coat. Lay out the asparagus in one layer. Scatter the diced shallot 
over it. Season with salt and pepper. Drizzle olive oil lightly 
over asparagus.
4. Roast asparagus for about 10 minutes, until softened but still 
crisp-tender. Transfer asparagus to a serving platter. Sprinkle 
Parmesan on top. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  To find where to cut off or break the woody end of 
an asparagus spear: hold the tip end of the spear in one hand and the 
base in the other hand. Bend it until it breaks. The asparagus will snap 
right at the spot where the woody end begins.
PAIR WITH:  Cod Acqua Pazza (page 115)90 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Asparagus Wrapped in Prosciutto 
with Crispy Bread Crumbs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
Prosciutto is probably the most prized of Italian cured meats. It’s buttery, with a sweet-salty taste. 
When buying prosciutto, ask the deli counter to slice it very thinly. They should put deli paper 
between each slice to keep the thin slices from sticking to each other. Y ou can also sometimes 
find prosciutto prepackaged in the refrigerated sections of stores like Trader Joe’s, or in some 
supermarkets. The top brands imported from Italy are prosciutto di Parma, and San Daniele. But 
there are many other quality brands, too, like Boar’s Head (not from Italy). In this recipe, two 
flavors make the perfect union: the grassy crunch of asparagus with the earthy embrace of the 
prosciutto.
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
1 pound asparagus, 
woody ends snapped off
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/3 cup bread crumbs or 
panko bread crumbs
Zest of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon minced fresh 
Italian parsley leaves
1/4 pound thinly 
sliced prosciutto1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Line a sheet pan with foil. Drizzle a little olive oil. Add the aspara -
gus and gently coat with the oil. Season with salt and pepper. Lay 
the spears out in one layer. Roast in the oven for about 10 minutes 
until done, ideally crisp-tender.
3. Meanwhile add a little olive oil to a small skillet and stir in the 
bread crumbs. Cook and stir until toasted to a golden color, 2 to 
3 minutes. Remove bread crumbs to a medium mixing bowl. Add 
lemon zest and parsley. Season lightly with salt and pepper and stir 
to combine well.
4. To serve: wrap each asparagus spear in a slice of prosciutto and lay 
them out on a platter. Sprinkle with flavored bread crumbs.
INGREDIENT TIP:  It’s easy to make lemon zest. Use a small grater, 
a Microplane, or the smallest holes on a box grater. Y ou want just the 
yellow part, so try not to grate too deeply into the white pith of the lemon 
(the pith is bitter). Lemon zest can wake up a lot of dishes.
PAIR WITH:  Chicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers (page 100)VEGETABLES  AND  LEGUMES  | 91    Vegan, Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and Hot Pepper
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  8 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
The Italian love affair with bitter points directly to broccoli rabe—also known as rapini. But the 
bitterness of this vegetable is its best quality. It’s bright, assertive, and, in my opinion, exciting . The 
trick of first letting it cook in a little water helps tame the bitterness a bit. The addition of garlic 
and hot pepper flakes reflects the most traditional version of this recipe.
1 bunch broccoli rabe
1/3 cup water
Salt
3 or 4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1/2 teaspoon crushed 
red pepper, or to taste
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Cut the thick bottom stems off the broccoli rabe and discard. Cut 
the leaves and flowerets into smaller pieces: halving large leaves, 
and separating out floweret stems with a leaf or two attached.
2. In a large skillet, heat 1/3 cup of water till hot. Salt the water. 
Add the cut-up broccoli rabe. Cook at a lively simmer, until the 
broccoli rabe has wilted and the water has mostly evaporated, 3 to 
4 minutes.
3. Add the olive oil, garlic, and crushed red pepper. Season with 
salt and pepper. Toss broccoli rabe in oil till coated. Cook until 
simmering, and broccoli rabe is tender to the bite, 3 to 4 minutes 
more. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Many supermarkets sell broccoli rabe, but if you 
have trouble finding it, try this recipe with escarole. Y ou can skip the 
addition of water and simply sauté in the oil with garlic and hot pepper.
PAIR WITH:  Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic and Parmigiano (page 107)92 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Eggplant Parmigiana
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  45 minutes
Sicily, Naples, and Emilia-Romagna all call this dish their own. Sicily is eggplant country. 
Emilia-Romagna is Parmigiano-Reggiano country, and Naples is mozzarella country. Often you 
see Eggplant Parmigiana bubbling under what seems to be a very thick layer of mozzarella. But 
parmigiana means Parmesan cheese, so that cheese should shine, too. Here’s a version that’s a little 
bit of both: a delicate amount of mozzarella and a good sprinkling of grated Parmesan.
2 medium eggplants
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
3–4 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, for sautéing
2 cups tomato sauce 
(see 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, page 58, or 
use store-bought)
½ cup grated Parmesan
8 ounces mozzarella, 
shredded1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Peel eggplants with a potato peeler to remove the thin purply skin. 
Cut eggplants into 1/4-inch rounds.
3. Place the flour in a medium-large shallow bowl, and season well 
with salt and pepper. Heat 3 to 4 tablespoons of oil in a large frying 
pan. When hot, dredge eggplant slices in flour, shake off excess, and 
fry until golden on each side, 3 to 4 minutes. Repeat with the rest 
of the slices, adding more olive oil to the pan if needed. Drain slices 
on a paper-towel-lined plate.
4. Add a thin layer of tomato sauce to a 9-by-13-inch casserole dish 
(or similar). Place one layer of eggplant slices at bottom. Coat 
lightly with tomato sauce. Sprinkle on some grated Parmesan and 
shredded mozzarella. Add another layer of eggplant; coat with a 
little sauce; add more of the cheeses. Repeat until all the slices and 
cheeses are used.
5. Bake for about 30 minutes until the casserole is bubbling and the 
cheeses are melted. Let stand 10 to 15 minutes before cutting into 
squares and serving.
INGREDIENT TIP:  There’s no need to salt the eggplant slices before 
using them in this recipe, since eggplant varieties of today are not really 
bitter. Plus, salting results in a very flat slice—and I prefer more bite to 
the eggplant. When buying eggplant, look for smooth, unblemished skin 
and fruits that feel hefty for their size.
PAIR WITH:  Rustic Sausage Meatballs (page 105)VEGETABLES  AND  LEGUMES  | 93    Vegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with Oregano
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
Do you know those multicolored little bell peppers they sell in small bags in produce 
departments? I was always drawn to their beautiful colors but didn’t want to go through the 
trouble of cutting and cleaning them. Finally, I came up with a recipe that turns these peppers 
into delicious morsels without any fussy prep at all. These peppers are great as a side dish with 
meat or can be a pretty addition to an appetizer platter.
1 pound baby bell peppers 
(usually in assorted colors)
3 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
Leaves from 2 or 3 sprigs 
fresh oregano, minced1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Put peppers in a medium mixing bowl. Drizzle them with olive oil 
and toss to coat the peppers. Sprinkle them with dried oregano. 
Season with salt and pepper. Mix to combine.
3. Lay peppers out in a single layer on a foil-lined, lightly oiled 
sheet pan.
4. Roast for 20 to 25 minutes, until softened and beginning to brown.
5. Transfer peppers to a serving platter. Sprinkle with fresh 
oregano. Serve.
PAIR WITH:  Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa Verde (page 111)94 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Sautéed Swiss Chard with Radicchio and Leek
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  8 minutes
If you’re not familiar with the leafy vegetables in this recipe, here’s an opportunity to explore. In 
Italy, Swiss chard is called bietole  and shows up in savory tarts and sautés, and red, slightly bitter 
radicchio is usually cooked or grilled, but is often used as a salad green, too. This simple sauté 
combines chard’s subtle sweetness and radicchio’s bite with the earthy flavor of leek, creating the 
perfect side dish for just about any meal.
1 leek
1 bunch Swiss chard 
(about 10 stalks)
1/2 head radicchio 
(about 1/3 pound)
2 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil, for sautéing
Salt and freshly ground 
black pepper1. Cut off the green end of the leek; use only the white part. Cut off 
the root. Cut leek in half lengthwise, and rinse under cool water, 
thumbing through the layers to clean well. Pat dry. Cut length -
wise again to get 4 long quarters. Cut across quarters into thin, 
small slices.
2. Rinse the Swiss chard and pat it dry. Gently rip the leaves of the 
Swiss chard from the ribs. (Discard ribs.) Tear or cut leaves into 
bite-size pieces. Cut radicchio into thin slices.
3. Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a large sauté pan. When hot, add 
the cut-up leek. Sauté until softened and beginning to turn golden, 
about 4 minutes. Add the Swiss chard and radicchio. Cook at a 
lively simmer for 2 to 3 minutes, until leafy vegetables have wilted. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Swiss chard usually has a white rib running through 
its large, floppy leaves. But sometimes you find rainbow chard, with ribs 
that are yellow, red, and orange. All or any of these are worth trying in 
this recipe.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs (page 116)VEGETABLES  AND  LEGUMES  | 95    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Butter-Braised Spinach with Slivered Almonds
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  3 minutes | COOK TIME:  6 minutes
I always have a bag of spinach in my crisper. I add it to soups, to stir-fries, and to eggs. But 
all on its own it’s perfect. Spinach tastes  green. Y ou’re getting a great dose of nutrition with a 
tender, delicate, silky consistency. In this recipe, butter and garlic make Popeye’s hero-vegetable a 
real treat.
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1 garlic clove, peeled
9 ounces spinach, rinsed
Salt
1/3 cup slivered almonds1. Heat the butter and garlic in a large sauté pan until butter has 
melted and starts to sizzle. Add the spinach, a little at a time, 
until each addition wilts and makes room for more. Turn with 
tongs to mix. Season lightly with salt. Cook until all the leaves are 
just wilted.
2. Stir in the almonds. Transfer to a serving bowl. Serve hot or at 
room temperature.
VARIATION TIP:  The almonds in this recipe add some crunch and 
another layer of flavor. But you can leave them out, if you don’t have any 
on hand—or swap slivered almonds for sliced almonds or pine nuts.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Cod with Crispy Parmigiano Crumbs (page 114)96 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegan
Garlicky Lentils with Fried Croutons
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
I learned this recipe years ago from my Roman roommate, Enrica. It’s homey, cozy, and layered 
with flavor. When using dried lentils, I first spread them out on a sheet pan to look them over. It 
doesn’t happen often, but occasionally you’ll find a small stone in the mix. Better to check first. 
Also, this recipe is for brown lentils. Sometimes you find red or orange lentils, which are lentils 
without the hull. They cook faster, but also break down into a pea-soup consistency. Brown lentils 
work best for this recipe.
4–6 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, for drizzling 
and sautéing, divided
1 small onion, peeled 
and diced
3 garlic cloves, 
peeled, divided
1 cup dried brown lentils, 
picked over for any small 
stones, and rinsed
3 cups water
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
3 to 4 slices Italian bread1. Heat 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil in a medium saucepan. Add 
the onion and 1 garlic clove. Cook until onion is softened, 3 to 
4 minutes. Add the lentils. Cook until lentils are coated with oil 
and hot. Add 3 cups water. Season with salt and pepper. Bring to a 
simmer. Partially cover, and simmer until lentils are tender, about 
20 minutes. If the water is absorbed before lentils are tender, add a 
little more water to the cooking.
2. Meanwhile, cut the Italian bread slices into bite-size squares or 
triangles. Heat 2 to 3 tablespoons olive oil in a medium frying pan. 
Add remaining 2 garlic cloves. When oil is hot, fry the bread with 
the garlic until slices are golden. Remove to paper-towel-lined 
plate. Discard garlic.
3. To serve, spoon some lentils into an individual serving bowl. Top 
with a few pieces of fried bread. Drizzle with a little olive oil.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you can find canned lentils, you’ll shave off some 
cooking time by using them instead of the dried lentils in this recipe. 
Just sauté the onion and garlic, then heat the cooked lentils on top and 
proceed with the remaining steps.
PAIR WITH:  Italian Mixed Green Salad with Parmigiano Vinaigrette 
(page 32)VEGETABLES  AND  LEGUMES  | 97    Vegan, Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy Fennel
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
Chickpeas are a great vegetarian protein source that can add a “meaty” presence, texture, and 
body to almost any dish. Y ou can buy chickpeas dried, then soak and cook them until tender. 
However, the canned version is just as good, a snap to access, and sold everywhere. This dish 
makes chickpeas the star of the show, contrasting their tenderness with some crunchy fennel and 
simple seasonings.
1 (15-ounce) can chickpeas
1/2 bulb of fresh fennel
1 shallot, peeled and diced
1/4 cup fresh sage 
leaves, minced
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Drain the can of chickpeas into a colander and rinse them. Drain 
well. Add the chickpeas to a medium mixing bowl.
2. Cut off the top green stems of the fennel. Cut a slice from the 
bottom of the core (which is usually browned from its first cutting). 
Pull off and discard the outer thick layer. Cut remaining heart of 
fennel into quarters. Then cut across each quarter into thin slices.
3. Add the fennel slices, shallot, and sage leaves to the chickpeas. 
Drizzle olive oil over the top. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Stir well to coat. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fennel is sometimes called anise, though 
they are actually two different plants. If you can’t find it, celery is a 
good substitute.
PAIR WITH:  Red and Green Pepper Frittata (page 42)Roman Lamb Abbacchio with  
Roasted Potatoes, page 11099    
8
Poultry and Meats
Meat is treated as a precious element in Italian cooking. It doesn’t take over 
the central place on the plate; instead, it’s valued for its quality, not  quantity. 
Lamb, veal, and pork are the most favored types of meat in Italy. Lamb is most 
 popular in Rome, especially in the classic dish, Roman Lamb Abbacchio with Roasted 
Potatoes (page 110). Veal is popular in most Italian regions, but since it can be quite 
expensive, you’ll only find one use for it in this chapter: the beloved  classic, Veal 
Osso Buco Braised in Red Wine (page 108). Perhaps the most prevalent meat used 
in Italian cooking is pork, which makes up a large percentage of salumi  (cured meats) 
like salami, sopresatta , and coppa. Fresh Italian sausage originated in the region of 
Basilicata, but is made in many variations throughout Italy—usually by mixing ground 
pork with pork fat, spices, and seasonings and stuffing the mixture into casings. In 
this chapter, I’ve included two of my favorite uses for fresh sausage: One-Pan Sau -
sage and Peppers (page 104) and Rustic Sausage Meatballs (page 105).
Of course, Italians also cook with leaner meats, such as chicken and pork tender -
loin, and you will find a delicious selection of applications for them in this chapter, 
too. Just remember: in Italian meals, meat is more like a side than the main event, 
meant to complement the other components on the plate rather than draw the 
spotlight.
100 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKChicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Y ou often find this classic dish in Italian restaurants, but sometimes served with veal instead of 
chicken. Since chicken is easier to find, and easier on the budget, I prefer chicken—the savory 
flavors of lemon, butter, and capers shine through beautifully.
3 boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts
1 cup all-purpose flour
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
2 or 3 tablespoons 
unsalted butter, divided
1 shallot, peeled 
and minced
Juice of 3 lemons
1/2 cup white wine
1 lemon, thinly sliced
2 tablespoons capers1. Cut each chicken breast across its width into 5 or 6 quarter-inch-
thick slices. Lay out six slices at a time, in one layer, on a sheet of 
plastic wrap. Cover with another piece of wrap. Lightly pound each 
slice with a meat pounder until slightly thinner and larger. Repeat 
with the rest of the slices.
2. Place the flour in a medium shallow bowl and season it with salt 
and pepper to taste. Heat the oil and 1 tablespoon butter in a large 
sauté pan. Dredge chicken slices/cutlets in the seasoned flour and 
shake off excess. Sauté the cutlets until golden on each side and 
cooked through. Add a little more oil if needed as you sauté. Lay 
out cooked chicken slices on a serving platter and tent with foil to 
keep warm.
3. Add the shallot to the same pan and cook till softened, about 
1 minute. Add the lemon juice, wine, lemon slices, and capers. 
Cook for 2 to 3 minutes. Swirl in 1 or 2 tablespoons butter. Season 
with salt. Bring to a simmer. Pour over chicken. Serve.POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 101     TIME-SAVING TIP:  To save time and work, you can often find chicken 
breasts already cut into cutlets at your supermarket. Also, take care 
working with raw chicken; it’s known to transmit salmonella when raw. 
Wash hands and tools well after handling.
PAIR WITH:  Baked Rice with Peas and Celery (page 49)
TIPS FOR COOKING MEAT
Tougher cuts of meat—generally parts of the animal that are high-activity muscles—are 
best cooked with moist heat, like braising. Braised meat cooks slowly at a simmer 
in broth, wine, or water, usually for about 2 hours to become tender. Veal Osso Buco 
Braised in Red Wine (page 108) is a great example, as is Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic 
and Parmigiano (page 107).
More tender cuts of meat are cooked quickly with dry heat—not in a liquid. They are 
pan-fried, grilled, or broiled, as in Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa Verde (page 111). Chicken 
breasts are tender and cook more quickly than the dark meat of the higher-activity mus -
cles in the legs and thighs.
Searing meat before braising or roasting it is a great way to get more flavor. The 
seared edges caramelize, creating an almost sugar-browned crust. Let meat rest for 
about 10 minutes after roasting, broiling, or grilling, so that the juices have time to settle 
back into the meat.
102 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage and Prosciutto
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Y ou can buy chicken cutlets, already sliced, in the supermarket. But I usually take a boneless, 
skinless chicken breast, slice it crosswise into about 5 slices, then lightly pound each slice. For this 
recipe, 2 or 3 chicken breasts make about 12 slices.
10 to 12 thin slices 
of chicken cutlet
Salt
10 to 12 thin slices 
of prosciutto
10 to 12 large sage leaves
10 to 12 toothpicks
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Freshly ground 
black pepper
3–4 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, for sautéing1. Place the slices of chicken on a platter. Season the cutlets with salt. 
Place a slice of prosciutto over each piece and one sage leaf on top. 
Weave a toothpick through the meat, prosciutto, and sage leaf to 
hold them together.
2. Place the flour in a medium bowl and season with salt and pepper 
to taste.
3. Heat olive oil in a large skillet. Dredge the meat in the seasoned 
flour and shake off excess. When oil is hot, add the chicken pieces, 
sage leaves down. Let cook 3 to 4 minutes until the prosciutto has a 
golden color. Turn the cutlets and cook 2 to 3 minutes on the other 
side until cooked through. Repeat with all cutlets, adding a little 
more olive oil to pan if needed.
4. Transfer to a platter. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Take care working with raw chicken, it’s known to 
transmit salmonella when raw. Wash hands and tools well after handling.
PAIR WITH:  Soft and Cheesy Polenta with Roasted Mushrooms 
(page 40)POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 103     Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, One-Pan
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion Pilaf
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  50 minutes
A one-pan meal is always inviting. Here, the juices of the chicken flavor the rice and onions, 
and all you have to do is place them together. Bouillon cubes are usually a no-no in any chef ’s 
cooking, but in Italy I’ve seen many home cooks use a pinch here and there to boost the flavor of 
chicken. If you want to try this little trick, crumble a half bouillon square into the water you add 
to the pan.
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
1/2 cup rice (short 
or long grain)
1 medium onion, 
peeled and sliced
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 whole chicken  
(3 or 4 pounds)
1 cup water
Pinch powdered 
bouillon (optional)
2 or 3 sprigs fresh rosemary1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Use a 9-inch or 12-inch cast iron pan. Pour a thin film of olive oil 
over the bottom. Pour in the rice, scatter the onion, and season 
with salt and pepper.
3. Drizzle the chicken with a little olive oil. Season well with salt. 
Place chicken on top of rice mixture. Add 1 cup water. Add a pinch 
of bouillon cube, if using. Drizzle a little olive oil over the rice. Add 
the rosemary sprigs.
4. Place the pan in the oven. Cook for about 50 minutes, until an 
instant-read thermometer reads 165 or higher when stuck into the 
thigh meat. During cooking, if water evaporates, add a little more. 
When done, cut chicken into pieces. Serve with rice and onions.
PAIR WITH:  Sicilian Orange and Fennel Salad (page 33)104 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free, One-Pan
One-Pan Sausage and Peppers
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  40 minutes
This dish reminds me of the San Gennaro Festival in New Y ork’s Little Italy that takes place every 
fall. The streets are decorated with green, white, and red lights, closed to traffic, and lined with 
food stands selling everything from pizza to zeppole to calzones. But the food filling the air with 
the most irresistible aroma is sausage and peppers. The mixture sizzles on the griddle, ready to 
be stuffed into a roll or eaten straight with a fork. This recipe re-creates that festival taste right in 
your kitchen.
2 medium onions
3 red or green bell 
peppers, or a mixture
6 to 8 Italian sausages
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Peel the onions and cut them into 1/2-inch wedges. Cut the 
peppers in half. Pull out the stem and seeds. Cut the peppers into 
1/2-inch strips.
3. Using kitchen scissors, cut each sausage into 3 or 4 pieces (you can 
use a knife, but scissors are easier with raw sausages).
4. Line a sheet pan with foil. Drizzle some olive oil to lightly coat. 
Sprinkle cut onions and peppers over the pan. Scatter the sausage 
pieces. Drizzle a little olive oil over everything. Season with salt and 
pepper to taste.
5. Roast in the oven for about 40 minutes until vegetables and sausage 
are cooked through and starting to brown. Turn vegetables and 
sausages 1 to 2 times while cooking.
6. Serve hot or warm on a large platter.
PAIR WITH:  Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e Olio (page 60)POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 105     Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free
Rustic Sausage Meatballs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
When you buy Italian sausages in the store, sometimes you have the choice of sweet or hot. 
Sweet just means they’re not spicy (don’t worry—there’s no sugar involved). Hot Italian sausages 
bring just the right amount of heat. For this recipe you can choose either, depending on your 
preference. Since Italian sausages are already seasoned with some spices, they’re flavorful right 
from the start.
11/2 pounds Italian sausage 
meat, or 5 or 6 Italian 
sausages, casings removed
1/4 cup fresh Italian 
parsley leaves, minced
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Place the sausage meat and parsley in a medium mixing bowl. 
Season lightly with salt and pepper. With a large spoon, or your 
hands, mix until well combined.
3. Line a sheet pan with foil. Make 1-inch or 2-inch balls of meat 
mixture and line them up on the sheet pan.
4. Roast for about 20 minutes until cooked through and golden.
VARIATION TIP:  Meatballs are the perfect canvas for adding extra 
flavors. In Naples they add pine nuts and raisins. Or, you could add a 
little minced garlic, other fresh herbs, or minced, sun-dried tomatoes.
PAIR WITH:  Penne with Roasted Cherry Tomato Sauce (page 67)106 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free
Spice-Rubbed Pork Tenderloin
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  8 minutes | COOK TIME:  35 minutes
Pork tenderloin is such an easy cut to cook, and makes relatively fat-free tender slices of meat. 
Because tenderloin is much thinner than a larger pork loin, it only takes about a half hour to 
roast. This simple dry rub ups the flavor and succulence. I chose some of my favorite spices here, 
but feel free to mix it up and substitute your favorite flavors.
2 teaspoons sweet paprika
2 teaspoons crushed  
red pepper or  
1 teaspoon cayenne
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground 
fennel or fennel pollen
Salt
2 pork tenderloins, 
about 1 pound each
2–3 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, and 
more for drizzling
2 medium onions, 
peeled and quartered1. Preheat the oven 375°F.
2. In a small mixing bowl mix together the paprika, crushed red 
pepper, cumin, fennel, and a few healthy shakes of salt. Rub the 
spice mix all over the meat.
3. Heat tablespoons olive oil in an ovenproof casserole or skillet with 
at least 2-inch sides. Sear and brown the pork on all sides, about 
5 minutes.
4. Scatter onions around the pork. Transfer the casserole uncovered 
to the oven. Roast for about 30 minutes, until an instant-read 
thermometer reads 145.
5. Take pork out, tent with some foil, and let rest for about 10 minutes 
before cutting. There will be some “carry-over” cooking as the meat 
rests. Cut into thin slices, serve with the onions and juices.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  When you slice across the pork, you make small, 
round slices. Slice across on a diagonal for longer, oval-shaped slices.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with Oregano (page 93)POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 107     Gluten-Free
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic and Parmigiano
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  1 hour
During my first trip to the region of Puglia, I had the happy occasion to cook with a grandmother 
in her home. We made fresh pasta and this very easy braciole . My family makes braciole , too, 
but this Pugliese version was so different and much simpler (every region and every family has 
their own version). Basically, thin pieces of beef are stuffed and rolled, then braised in tomato 
sauce. Another surprise: she put the just-rolled braciole  into a pan with cold oil, then put it on the 
heat to cook. I had never seen that before. Usually, you heat the oil before adding meat. But this 
worked beautifully, which was a revelation.
6 thin pieces of beef, like 
thin-sliced sirloin tip, each 
about 4 inches by 4 inches
6 (1-inch) chunks 
Parmesan cheese
3 large garlic cloves, 
peeled and cut in half
12 flat-leaf Italian 
parsley leaves
6 toothpicks
3–4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 (28-ounce) can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt1. Lay the pieces of beef out flat on a clean work surface. Place a 
piece of cheese, a piece of garlic, and 2 parsley leaves in the center 
of the bottom third of each slice. Roll up the beef around the 
cheese-garlic-parsley, so you have a “jelly roll” of beef. Secure the 
end by threading a toothpick to keep it closed. Repeat with all the 
beef slices.
2. Pour the oil in a large saucepan that can hold the rolled beef in 
one layer. Place the meat in the pan, and then put it on the stove 
to heat. Start at medium until the meat starts to simmer. Cook at a 
lively simmer until meat is browned on all sides, about 5 minutes.
3. Add the wine. Let some evaporate, then add the tomatoes. Season 
with salt to taste. Cook, with cover askew, at a slow simmer, for 
about 1 hour or longer, until the meat is easy to cut. Serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can make this dish into a full meal by adding 
pasta. Boil your favorite pasta and use with the braising tomato sauce. 
Serve with the meat.
PAIR WITH:  Sautéed Swiss Chard with Radicchio and Leek (page 94)108 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free
Veal Osso Buco Braised in Red Wine
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  2 hours and 15 minutes
Osso buco is a classic dish from the Lombardia region of Italy. They are slices of veal shank (the 
lower leg). Osso  means bone in Italian, and buco  means hole. The shank slice is a circle with a 
round bone in the middle. There’s a hole in the bone filled with marrow. It’s a prized delicacy to 
eat the marrow with a little spoon. Y ou will probably have to order the cut from a butcher. It does 
take some braising time, but it’s not difficult to make—an impressive dish to serve guests. The 
addition of the traditional gremolata  gives the meat a bright accent.
FOR THE OSSO BUCO
6 veal shank slices
3–4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 carrots, diced
2 celery stalks, diced
1 onion, peeled and diced
2 cups red wine
1–2 cups low-sodium 
beef or chicken brothTO MAKE THE OSSO BUCO
1. Tie kitchen string around the outside of the meat of each slice of 
veal. This helps keep the meat on the bone as it cooks.
2. Heat the olive oil in a heavy casserole pot or heavy-bottomed pan 
with at least 2-inch sides. Place the flour in a medium bowl and 
season it with salt and pepper. When the oil is hot, quickly dredge 
the shanks in the seasoned flour, shaking off excess. Brown the 
shanks on all sides, about 8 minutes. Take the meat out of the pan.
3. Add the carrots, celery, and onion. Add more oil if needed. Sauté until 
softened, 4 to 5 minutes. Add the wine. As it sizzles, scrape up any 
browned bits from the bottom of the pan. Add 1 cup of broth. Return 
the meat to the pan and bring up to a simmer. Season with salt.
4. With pan cover askew, let braise at a simmer for about 2 hours. 
Gently turn the meat halfway through cooking. Add more broth 
if too much liquid is evaporating. When done, meat should 
be fork-tender.POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 109     FOR THE GREMOLATA
2 teaspoons lemon zest
2 tablespoons Italian 
parsley, minced
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
and minced
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
SaltTO MAKE THE GREMOLATA
Meanwhile, make the gremolata: in a small mixing bowl, mix 
together the lemon zest, parsley, and minced garlic. Add a little 
olive oil and a little salt.
TO FINISH THE DISH
When the meat is done, let meat rest in the sauce for about ten 
minutes before serving. Transfer each shank to a serving dish and 
remove the string. Spoon a little cooking juice on top of each piece. 
Then, top with a small spoonful of gremolata.
PAIR WITH:  Risotto Milanese with Saffron (page 48)110 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with Roasted Potatoes
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Traditionally, this dish is made with baby (suckling) lamb, and it is the quintessential springtime 
dish in Rome. However, the recipe works just as well with the lamb you can find easily in 
supermarkets. Here, you cut shoulder lamb chops into smaller pieces. Y ou end up with odd pieces 
of lamb and odd pieces of bone, but that is as it should be. The roasted potatoes absorb the meat 
juices, making this a perfect comfort food.
8 lamb shoulder chops 
(blade or with round bone)
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2–3 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
1 medium onion, peeled 
and sliced in half circles
4 garlic cloves, peeled 
and chopped
5 or 6 red potatoes, peeled, 
cut into 1/4-inch slices
1/3 cup mild vinegar
3 to 4 rosemary sprigs, 
plus 1–2 sprigs for garnish1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Cut lamb chops into 2 to 3 pieces per chop. Season with salt 
and pepper.
3. Heat olive oil in a large roasting pan, Dutch oven, pot, or skillet 
that can go in the oven. Sear the lamb pieces until well browned. 
Remove. Add the onion, garlic, and potatoes. Cook for 3 to 
4 minutes until vegetables have softened a little. Add back the 
lamb. Drizzle the chops with vinegar and some olive oil. Add 3 or 
4 rosemary sprigs. Season some more with salt and pepper.
4. Roast in oven for 20 to 25 minutes for medium-well doneness (and 
until potatoes are tender). Roasting time can vary, depending on 
your preference for rare or well-done meat. Traditionally, lamb is 
served cooked rare to medium-well.
5. Transfer lamb, potatoes, and onions to a serving platter. Garnish 
with reserved rosemary sprigs. Serve hot.
PAIR WITH:  Roman Sautéed Peas with Pancetta and Onion (page 88)POULTRY  AND  MEATS  | 111    
Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa Verde
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour marinating time | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
Lamb chops are quick-cooking and super-savory. If you want to save time, skip the marinating 
part of this recipe. Season the chops well with salt and pepper and get them right into the oven. 
15 minutes later: dinner is ready. If you do have the time, the marinade will add an additional 
level of flavor. Salsa verde is one of those easy-to-make condiments that can take the dish to a 
“gourmet” level.
FOR THE LAMB
1 rack of lamb  
(10 to 12 bones)
1 or 2 sprigs fresh rosemary
2 or 3 cloves of garlic, 
peeled and smashed
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Salt
FOR THE SALSA VERDE
1 cup Italian parsley 
leaves, minced
1/4 cup capers
2 or 3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
Pinch hot pepper flakes, 
or cayenne pepper
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepperTO MAKE THE LAMB
1. Cut the lamb into individual chops. Trim off some of the fat, if 
you prefer. Add the chops, rosemary, garlic, and olive oil to a large 
ziplock bag. Press and move ingredients around to distribute. Let 
marinate in refrigerator for at least an hour and up to 3 hours.
2. Heat the broiler to medium-high with rack about 3 inches from 
the heating element. Remove lamb chops from marinade (discard 
marinade in bag). Lay chops out on a sheet pan. Season with salt 
on both sides. Place the pan under the broiler and cook chops 3 to 
4 minutes per side.
TO MAKE THE SALSA VERDE
Meanwhile, make the salsa verde. In a medium mixing bowl, stir 
together the parsley, capers, and olive oil. Stir in hot pepper flakes. 
Season with salt and pepper to taste.
TO FINISH THE DISH
Serve lamb hot or warm. Use salsa verde as a condiment.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  Instead of broiling, you can also grill these chops. 
Grill until golden and slightly charred on one side; turn and cook until 
golden and slightly charred on the other side—3 to 4 minutes per side.
PAIR WITH:  Roman Sautéed Peas with Pancetta and Onion (page 88)Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs, 
page 116113    
9
Fish and Seafood
Italy is a peninsula in the Mediterranean, Tyrrhenian, and Adriatic Seas with 
approximately 5,000 miles of coastline snaking along almost every region in the 
country. So, it’s no surprise that fishing has always been a major industry in Italy, 
and that a vast majority of Italian homes enjoy the local catch—especially ancho -
vies, sardines, mullet, shrimp, tuna, swordfish, and octopus. Italians are also fond of 
baccala , which is codfish preserved in Norway. Somehow this salt-preserved fish 
made its way to Italy, where it worked its way into the cuisines of Naples, Rome, and 
Venice. In this chapter, you’ll find two recipes that give a nod to baccala , but instead 
use fresh codfish, which in Italy is called merluzzo . (See Cod Acqua Pazza, page 115, 
and Roasted Cod with Crispy Parmigiano Crumbs, page 114.)
Shrimp are also popular in Italy, where the most common species are called 
gambero  or scampi, and of course no Italian cookbook would be complete without 
a recipe for Shrimp Scampi (page 119). Two other popular seafood options in Italy 
are the white-fleshed fish orata  and branzino  (sea bream and sea bass), but they 
are not easy to find outside of the country, so instead I used tilapia for their classic 
applications: poached in savory sauce (page 117) and baked in parchment packets 
(page 118). Mussels ( cozze ), crab ( granchio ), and squid (calamari) are all Italian favor -
ites, too—you’ll find my favorite savory and succulent recipes for each of them in 
this chapter.
114 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOK30 Minutes or Less
Roasted Cod with Crispy Parmigiano Crumbs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  8 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Traditionally cheese and fish don’t go together in Italian cooking. However, I’ve learned that’s 
mostly true in the region of Campania. Fish dishes in Venice often have added cheese. When this 
cod comes out of the oven, the combination of grated Parmesan with crispy panko crumbs tastes 
deep and buttery, when no butter has been added—just olive oil.
4–5 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
6 cod fillets (about 
4 ounces each)
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1/2 cup grated Parmesan
1/2 cup panko or 
bread crumbs1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Lightly oil a foil-lined sheet pan. Season the fish with salt and 
pepper and place on pan.
3. In a small mixing bowl mix together the Parmesan and bread 
crumbs. Season with a little salt and pepper, and moisten with a 
little olive oil until you have a wet-sand consistency. Pile crumbs on 
top of each fillet. Drizzle a little olive oil on top.
4. Bake in oven for 15 to 20 minutes until fish is cooked through and 
bread crumbs are golden.
PAIR WITH:  Roasted Asparagus with Shallot and Parmigiano (page 89)
TIPS FOR BUYING AND COOKING FISH
When buying fish and other seafood items, try to check the country of origin. The 
organization SeafoodWatch.org lists recommended species and origins. Mainly, their 
recommendations take into consideration fish farming practices, overfishing, and which 
countries export the best product.
The best thing to keep in mind when cooking fish is that it doesn’t need a lot of time. 
Steaming or poaching fish, as in Steamed Mussels with Cannellini Beans and Bacon 
(page 122) and Cod Acqua Pazza (page 115), is a foolproof way of keeping fish moist and 
instilling lots of flavor. The calamari on page 121 fries for just a minute.
The rule for squid: cook it superfast or superlong. If you go beyond that first quick 
minute, you end up with too-chewy squid that can only become tender with long braising.
Roasting fish in a medium oven for about 20 minutes concentrates its flavor and ten -
derness, as in Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs (page  116).
FISH  AND  SEAFOOD  | 115    Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Cod Acqua Pazza
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Ravello is perched high in the hills of the Amalfi Coast in Campania. My traveling group and I 
took a cooking class with Chef Vincenzo at an open-air kitchen there. The view looked out over 
their small trunk garden and then out to sea at an elevation of 1,200 feet. We cooked a full lunch 
menu, including this fish acqua pazza  style. Acqua pazza  means “crazy water. ” The poaching 
liquid is made “crazy” with fresh tomatoes, garlic, parsley, and olive oil. Simple. Crazy simple.
3 large ripe tomatoes, 
coarsely diced
2 or 3 garlic cloves, 
peeled and minced
Pinch hot pepper
1/4 cup minced 
Italian parsley
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 cups water
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
6 cod fillets (about 
4 ounces each)
1/2 baguette, sliced1. In a large sauté pan with a cover, place the tomatoes, garlic, hot 
pepper, parsley, olive oil, and water. Season with salt and pepper. 
Cover and bring to a simmer. Let simmer for 10 to 12 minutes.
2. Take the cover off and let liquid boil until reduced to at least half, 
2 to 3 minutes. Season the fish with salt. Add the cod fillets to 
the tomato mixture. Partially cover with a lid, and lower heat to a 
simmer. Cook until fillets are cooked through, 8 to 10 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, toast the bread slices in a toaster or oven until golden.
4. For individual servings, place a toasted bread slice at the bottom 
of a shallow soup bowl. Serve a cod fillet on top, with a couple of 
spoonfuls of tomato and tomato juices.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can make almost any fish “crazy. ” Use tilapia 
instead. Or even swap in shellfish like mussels or clams—using the same 
method, let them simmer in the broth until the shells open.
PAIR WITH:  Panzanella Salad with Cucumbers (page 34)116 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free, One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
Of the many types of salmon, the most common varieties are Atlantic, sockeye, and coho. Any of 
these are fine for this recipe. Olives and capers are the perfect flavors to go with this fish. Choose 
black or green olives that are already pitted. And my favorite capers are called nonpareils—they 
are the tiniest ones.
Extra-virgin olive 
oil, for drizzling
2 pounds skinless 
salmon fillet
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 shallot, minced
3 to 4 garlic cloves, peeled
1/2 cup black or green 
olives, pitted and sliced
1/4 cup capers
2 lemons
1/4 cup minced fresh 
Italian parsley leaves1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Line a sheet pan with foil. Drizzle a thin film of olive oil over it. 
Place the fish on top. Season fish lightly with salt and pepper. 
Sprinkle it evenly with shallot, garlic, olives, and capers. Drizzle a 
little olive oil on top.
3. Cut one of the lemons in half. Squeeze the halves over the fish. Cut 
the other lemon into small wedges. Set lemon wedges aside.
4. Roast the fish until cooked through, about 20 minutes. Transfer 
the fillet to serving platter. Garnish with reserved lemon wedges 
and parsley.
PAIR WITH:  Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and Cream (page 66)FISH  AND  SEAFOOD  | 117    Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free, One-Pan
Tilapia Poached in Tomato-Tarragon Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
Tomato sauce has an irresistible umami flavor; it’s why it permeates so much of Italian cooking. 
So why not cook fish in it? This tomato sauce is deepened with a lively hint of tarragon, a fresh 
herb with a light anise-licorice flavor. In Italian it’s called dragoncello.  I grow it every summer in 
my herb garden and keep finding new ways to include it in recipes. To make this dish a full meal, 
serve it over cooked white rice.
2–3 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
1 small onion, peeled 
and diced
1 garlic clove, peeled 
and crushed
1/4 cup dry white wine
1 28-ounce can 
crushed tomatoes
Salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper 
2 teaspoons fresh  
tarragon, minced or  
1 teaspoon dried tarragon
4 to 6 tilapia fillets1. Heat the olive oil in a medium-large sauté pan. Add the onion and 
garlic. Cook until the onion softens. Add the wine. Let it evaporate. 
Add the tomatoes and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Stir 
in the tarragon. Simmer for 15 minutes.
2. Slip the tilapia fillets into the sauce. Spoon sauce over the top of 
the fish. Partially cover the pan. Simmer on medium-low for about 
10 minutes until fish turns an opaque white.
3. Serve with a generous spoonful of sauce for each serving.
PAIR WITH:  Sautéed Swiss Chard with Radicchio and Leek (page 94)118 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKGluten-Free
Baked Parchment Packets with 
Tilapia, Thyme, and Lemon
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  20 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Cooking food in parchment packets is like creating a microclimate for the ingredients. They’re 
cooking in their own little world with flavors concentrating and marrying with each other. In 
these packets, the clean taste of tilapia is enhanced with shallot, tomatoes, butter, lemon, and 
wine. Y ou see dishes in Italy like this; there they’re called al cartoccio —“cooked in paper. ”
6 (4-ounce) tilapia fillets
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 shallot, minced
6 to 8 cherry tomatoes, 
quartered
Extra-virgin olive oil, for 
drizzling and brushing
6 (12-by-16-inch) pieces 
of parchment paper
1/2 cup dry white wine
1 lemon, thinly sliced
6 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
6 thyme sprigs1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Season the tilapia with salt and pepper. In a small mixing bowl, mix 
together the shallot and the tomatoes. Add a drizzle of olive oil, and 
season with salt and pepper.
3. Fold each piece of parchment paper in half to get a crease. Then 
open each sheet. Brush half lightly with olive oil.
4. Place a tilapia fillet on the oiled half of each parchment. Divide the 
shallot-tomato mixture to top each of the six fillets. Sprinkle each 
with a couple of teaspoons of wine. Drizzle lightly with olive oil. 
Add a lemon slice, a tablespoon of butter, and a sprig of thyme.
5. Fold over the parchment paper so that the ends meet evenly. 
Starting at one corner, make a small fold to close. Repeat, making 
small folds all around the opened edges until you have formed an 
enclosed semicircle. Press folds tightly. Tuck under the last corner. 
Brush each top with a little olive oil and place the packages in a 
single layer on a rimmed baking sheet.
6. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve each package on a dinner plate 
and let diners open their packages at the table. Careful; some hot 
steam can escape.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  If you don’t have parchment paper, use pieces of 
aluminum foil instead.
PAIR WITH:  Caesar Salad with Garlic-Anchovy Dressing (page 37)FISH  AND  SEAFOOD  | 119    One-Pan, 30 Minutes or Less
Shrimp Scampi
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Butter. Garlic. Shrimp. These three ingredients that make this classic Italian American dish such 
an enduring favorite. Growing up, this recipe was always the centerpiece of my family’s Christmas 
Eve Feast of the Seven Fishes dinner. My parents bought very large shrimp for that night, and we 
all swooned over the flavors. But don’t wait for a holiday. Once you learn how simple it is to make, 
any night can be Shrimp Scampi night.
1 pound large or 
jumbo shrimp, shelled 
and deveined
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 stick (8 tablespoons) 
unsalted butter
1/4 teaspoon crushed 
red pepper flakes or 
cayenne pepper
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 large shallot, chopped
3 to 4 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil
1/3 cup panko bread crumbs
1 tablespoon minced fresh 
Italian parsley leaves
1 lemon, cut into wedges1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Lay the shrimp out in one layer on a foil-lined sheet pan. Season 
them with salt and pepper. Cut butter into chunks and distribute 
around the shrimp. Sprinkle the red pepper, garlic, and shallot over 
the shrimp. Drizzle with olive oil. Scatter the bread crumbs on top.
3. Roast in oven for 10 to 15 minutes, until the shrimp are pink and 
cooked through and bread crumbs are golden.
4. Transfer to a serving dish. Sprinkle parsley and serve with 
lemon wedges.
PAIR WITH:  Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e Olio (page 60)120 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew with 
Shrimp, Clams, and Couscous
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
This fisherman’s stew is Sicilian-inspired. The mixture of fillet fish and shellfish speaks to the 
coast of Sicily, where fisherman bring in a wide variety of seafood. Because of Sicily’s diverse 
history (it has been ruled by the Greeks, Normans, Arabs, and Spanish), Sicilian dishes have 
multicultural origins. The use of saffron in this recipe has Arab roots, and the stew is served on a 
bed of couscous, a direct connection to North Africa, which lies about 100 miles across from the 
southern coast of Sicily. Serve this with slices of crusty bread to soak up all the delicious broth.
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, 
peeled and diced
2 garlic cloves, 
peeled and sliced
1 (28-ounce) can 
diced tomatoes
1 cup dry white wine
2 or 3 sprigs fresh thyme 
and/or fresh oregano
1/4 teaspoon saffron threads
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
4 (2-ounce) cod fillets
1/2 pound shrimp, 
shelled and deveined
3 dozen mussels, rinsed 
and debearded
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
11/2 cups quick-
cooking couscous1. Heat the oil in a large pot or Dutch oven that can hold all the ingre -
dients. Sauté the onion and garlic until softened, 2 to 3 minutes. 
Add tomatoes, white wine, thyme or oregano, and saffron. Season 
with salt and pepper. Bring to a simmer and cook for 4–5 minutes.
2. Add the cod, shrimp, and mussels. Cover to steam on medium heat 
for 3 to 4 minutes. Stir ingredients, cover again, and cook at a lively 
simmer until shrimp and cod are opaque and mussels have opened, 
8 to 10 minutes more.
3. Meanwhile, in a sauté pan with at least 2-inch sides, heat 11/2 cups 
of water with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt. Once 
liquid simmers, remove from heat. Add couscous, gently spreading 
out the grains evenly. Cover and let couscous stand to absorb water 
for about 10 minutes.
4. Fluff couscous with a fork, separating the grains well. Add a little 
olive oil. Stir to combine.
5. Spoon some couscous into serving bowls. Top with spoonfuls of 
fish and broth. Serve hot.
PAIR WITH:  Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary and Olives (page 83)FISH  AND  SEAFOOD  | 121     Dairy-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Lightly Fried Calamari
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  10 minutes | COOK TIME:  10 minutes
Calamari is squid. Most fish markets sell squid already cleaned, or you can ask them to clean it for 
you. There is a thin film of skin that needs to be removed, a thin bone in the center, and a “beak. ” 
The body of the squid is cut into rings, and the tentacles are left whole. Because of its strange 
appearance, when I was young, my family used to call calamari rings and tentacles “rubber bands 
and spiders. ”
1 pound squid, cleaned
2 cups canola oil
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup cornstarch
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1 lemon, thinly sliced 
(for garnish)
1 tablespoon minced fresh 
parsley leaves (for garnish)1. Separate tentacle section from squid body. Slice squid body into 
1/2-inch rings. Keep tentacles whole, or cut in half lengthwise.
2. Heat the oil to about 350 degrees in a heavy-bottomed medium pot 
or pan. Y ou can tell it’s hot enough if you drop in a small piece of 
bread and it bubbles and rises to the top.
3. Meanwhile, in a medium mixing bowl, whisk together flour and 
cornstarch; season with salt and pepper.
4. Dredge squid in the flour mixture and lift out some of it with a slot -
ted spoon, tapping the spoon with your hand to get rid of excess 
flour. Carefully lower squid into hot oil. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes 
until golden. Remove with slotted spoon to paper-towel-lined plate. 
Repeat with the rest of the squid.
5. Season fried calamari with salt. Garnish with lemon and parsley. 
Serve hot.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Calamari can quickly go from raw to overcooked. 
To avoid rubbery, too-tough results, make sure your pan is hot and don’t 
cook the calamari longer than directed.
PAIR WITH:  Clams Oreganata (page 20)122 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKDairy-Free, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or Less
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini Beans and Bacon
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
The idea of cooking with mussels can be daunting, but actually, they are quite easy to prepare. 
Mussels, known as bivalves or mollusks, cling together on seaweed along coastlines. They create 
a weblike material that you’ll sometimes find along the edge of the shell. It’s called the beard, and 
you need to tug this off the mussel before cooking. Most farm-raised mussels don’t have beards. 
Mussels cook quickly; you know they’re done when they open up while simmering. Discard any 
mussels that stay clamped shut after cooking.
6 slices bacon
2 tablespoons extra-
virgin olive oil
1 small onion, peeled 
and diced
2 garlic cloves, peeled 
and minced
1 cup cannellini beans, 
drained and rinsed
1/2 cup dry white wine
Leaves from 4 or 5 sprigs 
Italian parsley, minced
Leaves from 4 or 5 sprigs 
tarragon, minced
2 pounds mussels, 
cleaned and debearded1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Line a sheet pan with foil. Add a rack insert to the pan if you have 
one. Or just use the surface of the foil. Lay the bacon strips flat and 
roast in oven until cooked through and crispy, about 15 minutes. 
Let bacon drain on paper towels.
3. Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan. Add onion and garlic. Cook 
until softened and simmering, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the beans; 
stir to coat with oil; heat for 1 to 2 minutes. Add wine. When 
bubbling, add mussels, plus parsley and tarragon. Cover, cooking 
on medium-high heat for 8 to 10 minutes, until mussels have all 
opened (discard mussels that do not open after cooking).
4. Transfer mussels and their juices to a serving bowl. Crumble bacon 
slices over dish. Serve warm.
VARIATION TIP:  If you enjoy this recipe and want to try something 
new, boil a half pound of spaghetti, drain it, and place it in a serving 
bowl. Pour the mussels and juices over it, and top with bacon.
PAIR WITH:  Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary and Olives (page 83)FISH  AND  SEAFOOD  | 123     Dairy-Free
Easy Crab Cakes
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to chill | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
When I was a kid, we lived on the south shore of Long Island in New Y ork. My family loved 
shellfish, and it was easy to find fresh shellfish in our area, but we loved to go out and catch 
blue-claw crabs ourselves. We’ d fish at night, just along the docks of Great South Bay. With a 
strong flashlight and a scoop net, we’ d see them swimming near the dock pylons and scoop 
them up out of the water. It was a wrestling match to clean live crabs, and a project to eat them, 
pulling small pieces of succulent meat from the shells—but, oh, so good. Thankfully, you can buy 
wonderful blue-crab meat in a container at the store. Look for “lump” crab meat; this is meat from 
the best part of the crab.
1 pound lump crab meat 
(such as Phillips brand)
3/4 cup panko bread crumbs
1 egg
1 tablespoon 
Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon creamy 
mustard, i.e., Dijon
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 teaspoon celery 
salt, or 1 teaspoon 
Old Bay Seasoning
1 tablespoon minced 
Italian parsley leaves
Salt 
Freshly ground 
black pepper1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Add the crab to a large mixing bowl. Gently pick through the crab 
to find any pieces of shell.
3. Add bread crumbs and a little salt. Gently toss to coat, being careful 
not to break up lumps of meat.
4. In a separate medium mixing bowl, stir together egg, Worcester -
shire sauce, mustard, mayonnaise, celery salt, and parsley until 
smooth. Season with salt and pepper. Gently fold creamy mixture 
into crab, being careful not to break up lumps.
5. Line a sheet pan with parchment. Using 2 tablespoons, shape 1- to 
2-inch balls into small mounds of crab mixture onto the sheet pan. 
Chill in refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Remove and gently press 
crab balls into lightly flattened cakes.
6. Bake for about 20 minutes until golden.
VARIATION TIP:  Alternatively, pan-fry crab cakes in a little olive oil. 
Some store-bought cocktail sauce or tartar sauce is a nice addition for 
a condiment.
PAIR WITH:  Amalfi Lemony Tuna Capellini (page 64)Chocolate Tiramisu,  
page 126125     
10
Pastries and Desserts
Italy is famous for its desserts, and in this chapter you will learn simple ways 
to re-create some of the country’s most popular confections. Take two of the 
most iconic Italian treats—cannoli and tiramisu—for example. Since the fried dough 
casings of cannoli can be tricky to master, I use puff pastry instead to save time 
and effort (see page 130). And, in addition to a chocolatey spin on classic tiramisu 
(page 126), I’ve included a quicker, deconstructed version that tastes just as good 
(page 137).
Additionally, since fruit, cookies, and pastries are the desserts enjoyed in every -
day Italian life, you’ll find that more casual treats make up the bulk of this chapter. 
One of my favorites is the Rustic Peach Galette with Almond-Nutmeg Topping 
on page 133, an impressive tart that comes together quickly with very little work. 
The Sicilian Almond-Orange Cookies on page 131 are a direct connection to Sicily, 
where almonds and oranges grow in abundance. And then there’s the Italian coffee 
bar favorite, cornetti—crescent-shaped goodies enjoyed for breakfast throughout 
Italy. No matter what kind of sweet you’re craving, you will find the solution here in 
this chapter.
126 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Chocolate Tiramisu
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  25 minutes | COOK TIME:  1 hour to chill
This is a very light version of tiramisu. Traditionally, tiramisu is made with raw eggs. For this 
recipe, I’ve omitted the eggs, because the mascarpone-cream mixture is lavish enough. It requires 
making whipped cream. Y ou can use a whisk to do this, but a hand mixer or stand mixer (if you 
have one) will make the process faster. Alternatively, you can buy whipped cream already made. 
The ladyfingers are cookies sometimes called savoiardi . They are crunchy  ladyfingers (not the 
soft, cakey kind). These cookies become softened with the coffee mixture. Y ou can find them in 
specialty food markets and some supermarkets.
11/2 cups heavy cream
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1 pound mascarpone
1 teaspoon orange extract
3–4 tablespoons milk
¾ cup mini chocolate chips
1/3 cup instant 
espresso powder
5 teaspoons sugar, 
or to taste
1/4 cup Orangecello, 
or favorite liqueur
1/2 cup unsweetened 
cocoa, divided
40 crunchy ladyfingers1. Beat cream to soft peaks. Add powdered sugar; beat again until stiff 
peaks form.
2. In a separate large bowl, mix together the mascarpone and orange 
extract. Add a few tablespoons of milk to soften. Stir in chocolate 
chips. Gently fold in whipped cream.
3. In a shallow pan or container, combine espresso powder with 
3 cups boiling water. Add 4 or 5 teaspoons sugar, or to taste. Stir 
until coffee and sugar are dissolved. Add 2 more cups of cool water. 
Add Orangecello. Mix to combine. Let cool.
4. Use a 9-by-13-inch shallow serving pan or casserole dish. Dip the 
ladyfingers into the coffee mixture one or two at a time, letting 
them soak up the coffee, but not so much that they fall apart. Place 
them in a single layer lined up against each other, 2 by 2.
5. Spread half the cream mixture evenly on top. Dust with half the 
cocoa to cover. Layer with a second layer of coffee-dipped ladyfin -
gers. Top with the remaining cream; dust with remaining cocoa.
6. Chill for at least 1 hour, or overnight, before cutting into squares 
and serving.PASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 127     DESSERT CREAM
Cream is a recurring ingredient in many of these desserts, and it comes in many forms: 
whipped cream, ricotta cream, mascarpone, and creamy chocolate ganache.
Whipped cream  is made from heavy cream. You can find heavy cream in any supermar -
ket—it whips up easily and holds its shape for a day or more. Fresh-made whipped cream 
has the best flavor, but to save time, you can always use store-bought whipped cream for 
recipes like Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler with Whipped Cream (page 128).
Ricotta cream  is the filling for cannoli. Italian desserts often use sweetened ricotta, 
made creamier by mixing in a little milk. It’s the other side to the cheese’s personality, 
since you also find ricotta in many savory dishes.
Mascarpone  is a key ingredient in Chocolate Tiramisu (page 126), where it’s folded into 
whipped cream to make a luscious, sweet layer of the dessert. Mascarpone is also the 
decadent filling in Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini Hand Pies (page 135). Its consistency is 
like cream cheese, but it has a sweeter, less tangy taste.
Chocolate ganache  makes Espresso-Poached Pears with Chocolate Sauce (page 136) 
sublime. Ganache is an easy, exceptional topping made by mixing melted chocolate with 
heavy cream.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Orangecello is the orange version of limoncello —a 
sweet liqueur with the flavor of lemon (or orange). The coffee mixture 
is typically spiked with a sweet liqueur. Feel free to use your favorite or 
what you might have on hand. Sambuca, Cointreau, or amaretto are all 
good choices.
SERVE AFTER:  Risotto Milanese with Saffron (page 48)128 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler with Whipped Cream
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  25 minutes | COOK TIME:  25 minutes
A cobbler-style dessert is so comforting and can be put together quickly. Usually there’s a 
biscuit-like topping on top of the fruit, but here I’ve added a tasty Italian flare to this topping by 
incorporating cornmeal. It gives the cobbler a lighter, polenta-like touch. Y ou can use any mixture 
of berries for the fruit. In this recipe I chose strawberries and blueberries, but feel free to try 
blackberries or raspberries, too. Or substitute sliced peaches, nectarines, apricots, plums, or even 
cherries (remove the pits first). 
Y ou might choose your fruit according to the season. Y ou can even increase the amount of 
fruit to change the ratio of fruit to topping.
FOR THE FRUIT FILLING
2 cups hulled, sliced 
strawberries
2 cups blueberries
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon all-
purpose flourFOR THE POLENTA TOPPING
1 cup flour
1/2 cup cornmeal
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons sugar, plus 
more for sprinkling
1 stick unsalted butter, 
cut into small chunks
3/4 cup plain yogurt, 
preferably Greek yogurt
1/2 cup milkFOR THE CREAM
1 cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons 
powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extractPASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 129     TO MAKE THE FRUIT FILLING
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. In a medium mixing bowl gently stir together the strawberries, 
blueberries, sugar, and flour until well combined. Distribute fruit 
filling to cover the bottom of a 9-by-13-inch baking or casse -
role pan.
TO MAKE THE POLENTA TOPPING
1. Place the flour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, and sugar 
into a large mixing bowl. Whisk to combine well. Add the butter 
and cut it into the flour mixture, with a pastry cutter or 2 knives, 
until the butter is broken down into very small pieces. Add the 
yogurt and milk. Stir to combine until smooth.
2. Spoon the mixture in large dollops over the fruit until it’s almost 
covered. Flatten batter gently. Sprinkle with a little extra sugar. 
Bake for about 25 minutes until polenta is golden brown and fruit 
is bubbling.
TO MAKE THE CREAM
Meanwhile, make the whipped cream. Beat the cream with pow -
dered sugar and vanilla until medium peaks form, using a whisk or 
a hand mixer. Serve cobbler warm or at room temperature with a 
dollop of whipped cream on each serving.
VARIATION TIP:  Store-bought whipped cream works with this 
recipe, too, but fresh whipped cream is really special. If you have a food 
processor, you can save a little time by pulsing the polenta ingredients 
until smooth.
SERVE AFTER:  Spice-Rubbed Pork Tenderloin (page 106)130 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Puff Pastry Cannoli with Sweet Ricotta Cream
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  25 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
When you think of Italian desserts, cannoli are often the first treat that comes to mind. These 
traditional pastries from Sicily capture the crunch and creaminess of Italian sweets. Usually, you 
have to make a special dough and deep-fry the shells. But here’s a lighter, quicker version using 
store-bought puff pastry. One particular piece of equipment is needed, though: cannoli tubes. 
They are thin, metal tubes that create the shape of the crusts. Y ou can find them in specialty 
housewares stores or online.
1 sheet puff pastry, 
defrosted
3 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
1 egg, lightly beaten with 
1 teaspoon of water
21/2 cups ricotta
1/2 cup sugar
2 or 3 tablespoons 
heavy cream
1/3 cup shelled pistachios 
or walnuts, crushed
1/4 cup powdered sugar1. Preheat the oven to 350°F.
2. Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface until pretty thin 
(increase the rectangle to about 30 percent larger). Cut dough 
widthwise into 1-inch strips.
3. Coat the cannoli tubes with a thin film of butter. Gently but firmly 
wrap a strip of dough around a tube, making an overlapping spiral. 
Don’t pull the dough too tightly to wrap, but gently secure. Repeat 
with the rest of the dough and tubes. Place seam-side down on a 
parchment-lined baking sheet. Lightly brush with egg wash. Bake 
for about 30 minutes until golden. When cool enough to handle, 
very gently slide the pastry off the form. Let cool completely 
before filling.
4. In a medium mixing bowl, combine the ricotta with sugar and 
whisk until sugar no longer feels gritty. Stir in the cream if the 
mixture feels very thick (you may not need it). Spoon half of the 
mixture into a quart-size ziplock bag. Push mixture to a bottom 
corner and seal the bag, pressing out air. Snip the corner where the 
ricotta is, creating a hole about the size of a pea.
5. Hold one of the pastries upright and place the pastry bag 1 or 
2 inches from the opening at the top. Squeeze the bag, filling the 
pastry form with the ricotta. Press crushed nuts at either end. Repeat 
with the rest of the pastry and filling. Place on a serving platter. Dust 
with powdered sugar. Serve right away or refrigerate overnight.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  If cannoli tubes are hard to find, you can simulate 
the tube by rolling up parchment paper into solid cylinders.
SERVE AFTER:  Eggplant Parmigiana (page 92)PASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 131    Vegetarian, Gluten-Free, 30 Minutes or less
Sicilian Almond-Orange Cookies
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  12 minutes
Our Sicilian cooking teacher in Palermo made these cookies in the blink of an eye. My group and 
I were cooking in the galley of a pleasure boat in Palermo harbor. After preparing a full fish feast, 
these cookies were a beautiful perfect treat for dessert. Almonds are grown in Sicily and show up 
all throughout Sicilian cuisine.
2 cups almond flour
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon orange extract
3 egg whites
1 cup crushed almonds
1 dozen candied or 
maraschino cherries, 
quartered1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the almond flour and 
sugar. Stir in the orange extract and egg whites and mix until a 
dough forms. Knead to combine.
3. Pull off a small amount of dough and roll into a 1-inch ball. Roll 
each ball in the crushed almonds, press a piece of quartered cherry 
on top, and place on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with 
the rest of the dough (makes about 1 dozen).
4. Bake for about 12 minutes until golden.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Look for almond flour in most supermarkets. 
Organic markets, Trader Joe’s, Costco, and specialty gourmet stores also 
carry it.
SERVE AFTER:  Penne with Roasted Cherry Tomato Sauce (page 67)132 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Puff Pastry Cornetto with Marmalade
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  15 minutes
Breakfast at an Italian bar always includes cornetti (plural for cornetto ). They are crescent-shaped 
pastries, similar to croissants— cornetto  means “little horn. ” The bar counter typically displays 
a variety of filled cornetti: marmelatta  (marmalade), crema  (cream), cioccalato  (chocolate), or 
vuoto  (empty and plain). It’s my very favorite way to spend an Italian morning, eating a cornetto —
wrapped in a piece of wax paper to hand-hold—and drinking cappuccino. This recipe is an easy, 
homemade version of the Italian treat, and great for dessert, too.
1 sheet frozen puff 
pastry, thawed
Flour for dusting 
work surface
3/4 cup apricot jam, or your 
favorite marmalade or jam
2 or 3 tablespoons milk
2 or 3 tablespoons sugar1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Dust a clean work surface with a little flour. Roll out the puff pastry 
sheet to about 1/8-inch thick. Cut into 6 squares. Cut each square 
down the middle diagonally to create 2 triangles for each square.
3. Place a tablespoon of jam at the wide side of a triangle. Roll up, 
from the wide side, to create a crescent-roll shape, turning down 
the corners to make the crescent. Place on a parchment-lined sheet 
pan. Repeat with rest of dough.
4. Brush each crescent with milk. Sprinkle with sugar. Bake for 
15 minutes until golden.
TECHNIQUE TIP:  The recipe creates 12 small cornetti . For larger ones, 
cut dough into four squares, which will make 8 triangles.
SERVE AFTER:  Soft and Cheesy Polenta with Roasted Mushrooms 
(page 40)PASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 133     Vegetarian
Rustic Peach Galette with Almond-Nutmeg Topping
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour inactive time for chilling dough | COOK TIME:  35 minutes
Galette is a French term for a free-form tart. Italians use the term, too, but also call free-form 
tarts crostata. Crostata  can also be a tart that is cooked in a pie pan. But free-form is the key here. 
Once your dough is ready, you roll it out into a circle, or close to a circle shape. Pile your filling 
in the center, leaving a border, then just fold up your border over the edges of the fruit filling. No 
shaping or fitting into a pan; this dessert is the shape you make it. If you don’t want to spend the 
time making the crust, store-bought pie dough will be perfect, too.
FOR THE CRUST
1 cup flour, plus more for 
dusting work surface
1 teaspoon sugar
Pinch salt
6 tablespoons cold unsalted 
butter, cut into cubes
Scant 1/4 cup cold white 
wine, or ice water
FOR THE FILLING
4 or 5 peaches
1/3 cup sugar
2 short sprigs rosemary, 
leaves minced, 
stems discarded
2 teaspoons flour
1/2 cup sliced 
almonds, divided
1 egg, beaten with a 
teaspoon of water
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 cup brown sugarTO MAKE THE CRUST
In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, and salt. 
Add the butter, and using two knives or a pastry cutter, cut butter 
into the flour into small pieces. Add wine, then mix gently with 
hands to blend into a ball of dough. Flatten into a thick disk, wrap 
in plastic, and refrigerate for about an hour.
TO MAKE THE FILLING
Peel the peaches, remove the pits, and cut into thin wedges. In a 
medium mixing bowl, stir together the peaches, sugar, rosemary, 
flour, and 1/4 cup sliced almonds.
TO FINISH THE DESSERT
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F.
2. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface into a large circle 
or oblong, about 1/8-inch thick. Place rolled-out dough on a 
parchment-lined sheet pan. Place the filling in the center and 
spread it out, leaving at least a 2-inch border of dough. Fold the 
dough border over the filling, making small folds all around. Brush 
dough with egg wash.
3. Mix together the remaining 1/4 cup of almonds with nutmeg and 
brown sugar. Sprinkle mixture on top of dough and filling. Bake for 
30 to 35 minutes until the dough is golden and filling is bubbly
SERVE AFTER:  Lemony Risotto with Asparagus (page 46)134 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies with Walnuts
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  40 minutes
These brownies are spiked with amaretto, an almond-flavored Italian liqueur, and also almond 
extract, transforming the usual brownie into something a little more grown-up. I also bring more 
nuts to the party by stirring in a cup of walnuts for their flavor and tender crunch.
1 stick (8 tablespoons) 
unsalted butter, plus 
more to grease the pan.
1/2 cup cocoa powder
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 tablespoons 
amaretto liqueur
2/3 cup sugar
¼ cup all-purpose flour
Pinch salt
1 cup chopped walnuts1. Preheat the oven to 325°F. Lightly butter an 8-inch square 
baking pan.
2. Melt the butter in a small saucepan. Stir in the cocoa until smooth. 
Remove from heat and let cool a bit, about 2 minutes. Pour into a 
medium mixing bowl and whisk in the eggs, one at a time. Stir in 
the vanilla, almond extract, and amaretto.
3. In a separate bowl, whisk together the sugar, flour, and salt. Stir the 
dry ingredients into the wet ingredients. Mix until smooth. Stir in 
the walnuts.
4. Pour batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake for 
about 40 minutes. Let brownies cool before cutting into squares.
VARIATION TIP:  If you don’t have any amaretto in the house, try 
spiking these brownies with another favorite liqueur, like Fra Angelico 
(hazelnut-flavored), or Cointreau (orange-flavored).
SERVE AFTER:  Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe (page 62)PASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 135     Vegetarian
Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini Hand Pies
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour inactive for dough to chill | COOK TIME:  20 minutes
I know some people shy away from making pie or tart dough. I used to be one of those people. 
But now that I know how to do it, I make it often and easily. It doesn’t take a lot of time, and it 
has its rewards. It’s tender and a little crusty. If you want to save time, you can make this recipe 
with store-bought puff pastry or pie dough—either will work just fine, too. The key ingredient 
is Italian mascarpone, that fabulous creamy, dense cheese that gives many Italian desserts their 
lusciousness.
FOR THE CRUST
11/2 cups flour, plus more 
to dust work surface
1 teaspoon sugar
Pinch salt
1 stick cold, unsalted 
butter (8 tablespoons), 
cut into tablespoons
1/4 cup chilled white wine
1 egg, lightly beaten 
with 1 teaspoon of water 
(for the egg wash)
FOR THE FILLING
1/3 cup sugar, plus  
2 tablespoons, divided
8 ounces mascarpone, 
at room temperature
2 cups fresh raspberriesTO MAKE THE CRUST
Place the flour, sugar, and salt in a medium mixing bowl. Whisk to 
combine. Add the butter pieces, then using two knives, or a pastry 
cutter, cut butter into flour into pea-size pieces. Add wine; mix 
and knead gently with your hands just until a ball of dough forms. 
Flatten the ball into a disk, wrap in plastic, chill for 1 hour.
TO MAKE THE FILLING
In a medium mixing bowl, stir 1/3 cup of sugar and mascarpone 
together until smooth. Stir in raspberries.
TO FINISH THE DESSERT
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F.
2. Roll out dough onto floured surface to about 1/8-inch thick. Cut into 
3-inch squares (or use a 3-inch biscuit cutter). Place a teaspoon or so 
of fruit-cheese mixture in the center of each square, and fold into a 
triangle. Press the edges together with fork tines. Brush each lightly 
with egg wash, and make a small slit in the top. Sprinkle sugar on top.
3. Place mini-pies on a parchment-lined sheet pan. Reroll leftover 
dough to make more. Bake for 20 minutes or until golden. Makes 
about 1 dozen.
TIME-SAVING TIP:  If you have a food processor, you can make the 
dough in a snap. Add flour mixture, then butter. Pulse for a few seconds, 
then add the wine. Pulse until a ball of dough forms. Continue with the 
rest of the recipe.
SERVE AFTER:  Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, and Herbs 
(page 116)136 | THE EASY ITALIAN COOKBOOKVegetarian, Gluten-Free
Espresso-Poached Pears with Chocolate Sauce
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes | COOK TIME:  30 minutes
Pears are one of the best fruits for poaching. Their shape holds up to simmering, and when you 
leave the stem on, you can serve the fruit standing up, which makes a lovely presentation. In this 
recipe we’re poaching in espresso coffee–lemon liquid. The coffee will also tinge the pear to a 
tawny color. Y ou can brew your own espresso, or use instant espresso (it comes in small jars in the 
coffee section of some markets). If you can’t get your hands on some espresso, use regular coffee.
6 small to medium Bosc 
or Bartlett pears
2 or 3 cups espresso coffee 
(if using instant espresso 
coffee, use  
3 teaspoons per 2 cups)
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 lemon peels
3/4 cup chocolate chips 
(preferably bittersweet 
or semisweet)
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon lemon zest1. Peel the pears, leaving them whole with stems. If there are any that 
don’t stand easily, cut a sliver from the bottom to make them flatter 
for standing.
2. In a large saucepan that is big enough to hold the pears standing 
up, combine the espresso, sugar, vanilla, and lemon peels. Place 
the pears in the pan, stem-side up, and pour in enough water to 
submerge all but their stems. Bring to a simmer. Simmer gently for 
about 30 minutes. Remove pears from the liquid and let them drain 
on a paper towel.
3. Meanwhile, make the chocolate sauce. Combine the chocolate 
chips and cream in a small saucepan over low heat, and stir until 
the chocolate is completely melted. Remove the pan from the heat 
as soon as the chocolate as melted, then stir in the lemon zest.
4. Serve individual pears with a drizzle of chocolate sauce.
SERVE AFTER:  Linguine with Fra Diavolo Shrimp Sauce (page 68)PASTRIES  AND  DESSERTS  | 137     
Vegetarian, 30 Minutes or Less
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and Mascarpone
SERVES:  4 to 6 | PREP TIME:  15 minutes
The word tiramisu  translates to “pick me up. ” It’s the kind of dessert that rounds out a meal with 
an excitement of sweetness. This recipe takes all the tiramisu wonders and transforms them into 
an abbreviated, concentrated version of its best flavors. For the biscotti cookies, choose any of 
your favorites—all varieties are perfect here.
8 ounces store-bought 
Italian biscotti cookies
1/2 cup rum (or your 
favorite spirit), divided
1/4 cup brewed 
espresso coffee
8 ounces mascarpone
1/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup chocolate chips
1/3 cup sliced almonds1. Break up the cookies with a knife, into small bite-size pieces. Lay 
out broken cookies in one layer in a medium cake pan or casserole 
dish. Sprinkle 1/4 cup of liquor evenly over cookies. Sprinkle the 
coffee evenly over the cookies.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, stir together the mascarpone, the 
remaining 1/4 cup of liquor, and the sugar, until very smooth. Spoon 
dollops of mixture over cookies, then spread evenly with a spatula. 
Sprinkle chocolate chips and almonds.
3. Serve by spooning out mixture for individual servings.
SERVE AFTER:  Chicken Piccata with Lemon and Capers (page 100)Chocolate Tiramisu, page 126  139     Measurement Conversions
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (LIQUID)
US STANDARDUS STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1½ cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (DRY)
US STANDARD METRIC (APPROXIMATE)
1/8 teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
1/3 cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
2/3 cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 LOVEN TEMPERATURES
FAHRENHEIT (F)CELSIUS (C) 
(APPROXIMATE)
250°F 120°C
300°F 150°C
325°F 165°C
350°F 180°C
375°F 190°C
400°F 200°C
425°F 220°C
450°F 230°C
WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
US STANDARDMETRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or 
1 pound455 g
Chocolate Tiramisu, page 126140  Index
A
Amalfi Lemony Tuna Capellini, 64
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies with 
Walnuts, 134
Americano, 16
Anchovies, 2
Caesar Salad with 
Garlic-Anchovy Dressing, 37
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Aperitivi , 11, 16
Americano, 16
Aperol Spritz, 13
Campari and Soda, 12
Negroni, 14
Peach Bellini, 15
Venetian Scroppino, 17
Aperol Spritz, 13
Appetizers ( antipasto ), 11
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta 
and Prosciutto, 22
Clams Oreganata, 20
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Artichoke hearts
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Arugula, 2
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Asiago cheese
The Antipasto Platter, 18Asparagus
Asparagus Wrapped in Prosciutto 
with Crispy Bread Crumbs, 90
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
 Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
B
Bacon. See also  Pancetta
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Baked Parchment Packets with 
Tilapia, Thyme, and Lemon, 118
Baked Rice with Peas and Celery, 49
Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
Bakeries ( panetteria ), 73
Basil, 2
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Bay leaves, 2
Beans, 2
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread Soup), 26
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Beef
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic 
and Parmigiano, 107Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
Pasta with 30-Minute Meat 
Sauce, 59
Berries
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream, 128–129
Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini 
Hand Pies, 135
Beverages. See Aperitivi
Bread crumbs, 3
Breads, 73
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta 
and Prosciutto, 22
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Parmigiano Popovers, 82
Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta 
and Ham, 85
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary 
and Olives, 83
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks, 84
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and Hot 
Pepper, 91
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Broths, 3, 27
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta and 
Prosciutto, 22
Burrata cheese, 3
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Butter-Braised Spinach with Slivered 
Almonds, 95
C
Caesar Salad with Garlic-Anchovy 
Dressing, 37
Campari and Soda, 12INDEX  | 141Capers, 3
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Chicken Piccata with Lemon and 
Capers, 100–101
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Capocollo
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita, 78
Cauliflower and Crispy Bread, 
Orecchiette with, 65
Celery and Peas, Baked Rice  
with, 49
Cheese. See specific
Cherries
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
Chicken
Chicken Piccata with Lemon and 
Capers, 100–101
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage 
and Prosciutto, 102
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Chocolate
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies 
with Walnuts, 134
Chocolate Tiramisu, 126–127
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Clams Oreganata, 20
Cod
Cod Acqua Pazza, 115
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120Roasted Cod with Crispy 
Parmigiano Crumbs, 114
Coffee. See Espresso coffee
Cornmeal, 3
Couscous, Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and, 120
Crab Cakes, Easy, 123
Cream, dessert, 127
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Cucina povera  (peasant cooking), 47
Cucumbers, Panzanella Salad 
with, 34
D
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, 74–75
Dairy-free
Americano, 16
Aperol Spritz, 13
Asparagus Wrapped in  
Prosciutto with Crispy  
Bread Crumbs, 90
Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and 
Hot Pepper, 91
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Campari and Soda, 12
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage 
and Prosciutto, 102
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Cod Acqua Pazza, 115
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, 74–75
Easy Crab Cakes, 123
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Lightly Fried Calamari, 121
Linguine with Fra Diavolo 
Shrimp Sauce, 68
Negroni, 14One-Pan Sausage and 
Peppers, 104
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Peach Bellini, 15
Red and Green Pepper  
Frittata, 42
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary 
and Olives, 83
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with 
Roasted Potatoes, 110
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Rustic Sausage Meatballs, 105
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e 
Olio, 60
Spice-Rubbed Pork 
Tenderloin, 106
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon Sauce, 117
Veal Osso Buco Braised in Red 
Wine, 108–109
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21142 | INDEXDandelion greens
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Desserts, 125
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies 
with Walnuts, 134
Chocolate Tiramisu, 126–127
cream, 127
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream, 128–129
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Puff Pastry Cornetto with 
Marmalade, 132
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini 
Hand Pies, 135
Rustic Peach Galette with 
Almond-Nutmeg Topping, 133
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
D.O.P . labels, 5
E
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic and 
Parmigiano, 107
Easy Crab Cakes, 123
Eggplant Parmigiana, 92
Eggs
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough, 54–55
Red and Green Pepper Frittata, 42
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Escarole, 3
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
Espresso coffee, 4
Chocolate Tiramisu, 126–127
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Extra-virgin olive oil, 6
F
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and 
Cream, 66
Fennel
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Fish, 113. See also  Anchovies
Amalfi Lemony Tuna 
Capellini, 64
Baked Parchment Packets 
with Tilapia, Thyme, and 
Lemon, 118
Cod Acqua Pazza, 115
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Roasted Cod with Crispy 
Parmigiano Crumbs, 114
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon Sauce, 117
tips, 114
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Flour, 4
Fresh Eggless Pasta Dough, 56
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough, 54–55
Frittatas, 39
Red and Green Pepper Frittata, 42
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
G
Garlic, 4
Garlicky Lentils with Fried 
Croutons, 96
Gluten-free
Americano, 16
Aperol Spritz, 13
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Baked Parchment Packets 
with Tilapia, Thyme, and 
Lemon, 118
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Campari and Soda, 12
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic 
and Parmigiano, 107
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Negroni, 14
One-Pan Sausage and 
Peppers, 104
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Peach Bellini, 15
Red and Green Pepper Frittata, 42
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45INDEX  | 143Risotto Milanese with  
Saffron, 48
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with 
Roasted Potatoes, 110
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Rustic Sausage Meatballs, 105
Sautéed Polenta Squares with 
Shaved Parmigiano, 41
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
Sheet-Pan Frittata with  
Sun-Dried Tomatoes, 44
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Spice-Rubbed Pork 
Tenderloin, 106
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon  
Sauce, 117
Venetian Scroppino, 17
Gorgonzola cheese
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Grana padano cheese, 4
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and Fresh 
Tomatoes, 76–77
Guanciale
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61H
Ham, Quick Bread Loaf with 
Ricotta and, 85
Herbs, fresh, 4. See also  specific
I
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
K
Kale
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread Soup), 26
L
Lamb
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with 
Roasted Potatoes, 110
Leek, Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and, 94
Lemons, 5
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Lentils, Garlicky, with Fried 
Croutons, 96
Lettuce
Caesar Salad with 
Garlic-Anchovy Dressing, 37
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Lightly Fried Calamari, 121
Linguine with Fra Diavolo Shrimp 
Sauce, 68
M
Marmalade, Puff Pastry Cornetto 
with, 132
Mascarpone cheese, 5
Chocolate Tiramisu, 126–127
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini 
Hand Pies, 135
Meats, cooking, 101
Mediterranean diet, 87
Mint
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler with 
Whipped Cream, 128–129
Mortadella
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Mozzarella cheese, 5
Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
Baked Stuffed Pasta  
Shells, 70
Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Eggplant Parmigiana, 92
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80
Mushrooms
Baked Rice with Peas and 
Celery, 49
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
Mussels
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
N
Negroni, 14
Nutmeg, 5144 | INDEXNuts
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies 
with Walnuts, 134
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Rustic Peach Galette with 
Almond-Nutmeg Topping, 133
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
O
Olives
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary 
and Olives, 83
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
One-pan
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
One-Pan Sausage and 
Peppers, 104
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Shrimp Scampi, 119
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon Sauce, 117
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
Onions, 6
One-Pan Sausage and 
Peppers, 104
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Orange and Fennel Salad, Sicilian, 33
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and 
Crispy Bread, 65
Oregano, 6
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Organic, vs. nonorganic  
produce, 88
P
Pancetta, 6
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Parmesan cheese
Amalfi Lemony Tuna 
Capellini, 64Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
Caesar Salad with 
Garlic-Anchovy Dressing, 37
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic 
and Parmigiano, 107
Eggplant Parmigiana, 92
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and 
Cream, 66
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and 
Crispy Bread, 65
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Parmigiano Popovers, 82
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Pasta with 30-Minute Meat 
Sauce, 59
Penne with Roasted Cherry 
Tomato Sauce, 67
Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta 
and Ham, 85
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Cod with Crispy 
Parmigiano Crumbs, 114
Sautéed Polenta Squares with 
Shaved Parmigiano, 41
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks, 84
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44INDEX  | 145Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
True Fettuccine Alfredo, 63
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread  
Soup), 26
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Parmigiano Popovers, 82
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese, 7
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Parsley, 7
Pasta, 7, 53
Amalfi Lemony Tuna 
Capellini, 64
Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
cooking, 55
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and 
Cream, 66
Fresh Eggless Pasta Dough, 56
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough, 54–55
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
Linguine with Fra Diavolo 
Shrimp Sauce, 68
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and 
Crispy Bread, 65
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Pasta with 30-Minute Meat 
Sauce, 59
Penne with Roasted Cherry 
Tomato Sauce, 67
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe, 62
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e 
Olio, 60
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
True Fettuccine Alfredo, 63
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Pasta with 30-Minute Meat  
Sauce, 59
Peach Bellini, 15
Peach Galette with Almond-Nutmeg 
Topping, Rustic, 133
Pears
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
Peas
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Pecorino cheese, 7
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and 
Crispy Bread, 65
Sautéed Polenta Squares with 
Shaved Parmigiano, 41
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe, 62
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Penne with Roasted Cherry Tomato 
Sauce, 67
Peperoncinos, 7
Peppers
One-Pan Sausage and Peppers, 104
Red and Green Pepper Frittata, 42Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Pine nuts, 7
Pizzas, 73
Cast Iron Pan Pizza Margherita, 78
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, 74–75
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
Polenta, 39
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream, 128–129
Sautéed Polenta Squares with 
Shaved Parmigiano, 41
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Pork. See also  Bacon; 
Pancetta; Prosciutto
Spice-Rubbed Pork 
Tenderloin, 106
Potatoes, Roasted, Roman Lamb 
Abbacchio with, 110
Prosciutto, 8
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Asparagus Wrapped in Prosciutto 
with Crispy Bread Crumbs, 90
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta 
and Prosciutto, 22
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage 
and Prosciutto, 102
Provolone cheese
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Puff Pastry Cornetto with 
Marmalade, 132
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80146 | INDEXQ
Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta 
and Ham, 85
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
R
Radicchio
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini Hand 
Pies, 135
Red and Green Pepper Frittata, 42
Rice, 8
Baked Rice with Peas and 
Celery, 49
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Ricotta cheese, 8
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta 
and Prosciutto, 22
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta 
and Ham, 85
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Risottos, 39
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary and 
Olives, 83
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot and 
Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Cod with Crispy 
Parmigiano Crumbs, 114
Roasted Salmon with Olives, Capers, 
and Herbs, 116
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with 
Roasted Potatoes, 110
Roman Sautéed Peas with Pancetta 
and Onion, 88
Rosemary, 8
Broiled Lamb Chops with Salsa 
Verde, 111
Pan-Roasted Chicken with Onion 
Pilaf, 103
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary 
and Olives, 83
Roman Lamb Abbacchio with 
Roasted Potatoes, 110
Rustic Peach Galette with 
Almond-Nutmeg Topping, 133
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread  
Soup), 26
Rustic Peach Galette with 
Almond-Nutmeg Topping, 133
Rustic Sausage Meatballs, 105
S
Saffron, 8
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Sage, 9
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage 
and Prosciutto, 102Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Salads, 25
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Caesar Salad with 
Garlic-Anchovy Dressing, 37
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Salami
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Quick Bread Loaf with Ricotta 
and Ham, 85
Salmon, Roasted, with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Salt, 77
Salumi, 9
Sausage
Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
One-Pan Sausage and 
Peppers, 104
Rustic Sausage Meatballs, 105
Sautéed Polenta Squares with Shaved 
Parmigiano, 41
Sautéed Swiss Chard with Radicchio 
and Leek, 94
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks, 84
Shallots
Baked Parchment Packets with 
Tilapia, Thyme, and Lemon, 118INDEX  | 147Chicken Piccata with Lemon and 
Capers, 100–101
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Shrimp Scampi, 119
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44
Shrimp, 113
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Linguine with Fra Diavolo 
Shrimp Sauce, 68
Shrimp Scampi, 119
Sicilian Almond-Orange Cookies, 131
Sicilian Orange and Fennel Salad, 33
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Soups, 25
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Italian Wedding Soup with Mini 
Meatballs, 29
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread Soup), 26
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe, 62
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e Olio, 60
Spice-Rubbed Pork Tenderloin, 106Spinach
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
Squid
Lightly Fried Calamari, 121
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Stocks, 27
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown Sugar 
and Sage, 79
Swiss chard, 9
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
T
Tarragon
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon Sauce, 117
30 minutes or less
Amalfi Lemony Tuna 
Capellini, 64
Americano, 16
The Antipasto Platter, 18
Aperol Spritz, 13
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Asparagus Wrapped in Prosciutto 
with Crispy Bread Crumbs, 90
Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and 
Hot Pepper, 91
Bruschetta with Honey Ricotta 
and Prosciutto, 22
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Caesar Salad with 
Garlic-Anchovy Dressing, 37
Campari and Soda, 12Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chicken Saltimbocca with Sage 
and Prosciutto, 102
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Clams Oreganata, 20
Cod Acqua Pazza, 115
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and 
Cream, 66
Fusilli with Red Wine and 
Pancetta, 57
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Italian Mixed Green Salad  
with Parmigiano 
Vinaigrette, 32
Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Lightly Fried Calamari, 121
Linguine with Fra Diavolo 
Shrimp Sauce, 68
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream,  
128–129
Negroni, 14
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Peach Bellini, 15
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Puff Pastry Cornetto with 
Marmalade, 132
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Red and Green Pepper  
Frittata, 42148 | INDEX30 minutes or less ( Continued )
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Roasted Cod with Crispy 
Parmigiano Crumbs, 114
Roasted Salmon with Olives, 
Capers, and Herbs, 116
Roman Sautéed Peas with 
Pancetta and Onion, 88
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks, 84
Shrimp Scampi, 119
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Spaghetti alla Carbonara, 61
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe, 62
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e 
Olio, 60
Steamed Mussels with Cannellini 
Beans and Bacon, 122
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
True Fettuccine Alfredo, 63
Venetian Scroppino, 17
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Thyme
Baked Parchment Packets 
with Tilapia, Thyme, and 
Lemon, 118
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Penne with Roasted Cherry 
Tomato Sauce, 67Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Tilapia
Baked Parchment Packets 
with Tilapia, Thyme, and 
Lemon, 118
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon  
Sauce, 117
Tomatoes, 9
Baked Parchment Packets 
with Tilapia, Thyme, and 
Lemon, 118
Baked Spaghetti with Ricotta and 
Sausage, 69
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Cod Acqua Pazza, 115
Easy Beef Braciole with Garlic 
and Parmigiano, 107
Fisherman’s Seafood Stew 
with Shrimp, Clams, and 
Couscous, 120
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Linguine with Fra Diavolo 
Shrimp Sauce, 68
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Pasta with 30-Minute Meat 
Sauce, 59
Penne with Roasted Cherry 
Tomato Sauce, 67
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Tilapia Poached in 
Tomato-Tarragon Sauce, 117
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread  
Soup), 26
Tortellini in Brodo with Spinach, 27
True Fettuccine Alfredo, 63
Tuna Capellini, Amalfi Lemony, 64
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty Vegetable 
and Bread Soup), 26
V
Veal Osso Buco Braised in Red 
Wine, 108–109
Vegan
Americano, 16
Aperol Spritz, 13
Broccoli Rabe with Garlic and 
Hot Pepper, 91
Campari and Soda, 12
Chickpeas with Sage and Crunchy 
Fennel, 97
Fresh Eggless Pasta Dough, 56
Garlicky Lentils with Fried 
Croutons, 96
Negroni, 14
Panzanella Salad with 
Cucumbers, 34
Pasta with 15-Minute Tomato 
Sauce, 58
Peach Bellini, 15
Rice Salad with Chopped 
Vegetables and Roasted 
Peppers, 50
Riviera Focaccia with Rosemary 
and Olives, 83
Roasted Sweet Baby Peppers with 
Oregano, 93
Sautéed Swiss Chard with 
Radicchio and Leek, 94
Spaghetti with Spicy Aglio e 
Olio, 60INDEX  | 149Stuffed Mushrooms with Shallots 
and Bread Crumbs, 23
Sweet Pear Pizza with Brown 
Sugar and Sage, 79
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Vegetables, 87. See also  specific
Vegetarian. See also  Vegan
Amaretto Chocolate Brownies 
with Walnuts, 134
Arugula-Radicchio Salad with 
Pears and Gorgonzola, 36
Baked Rice with Peas and 
Celery, 49
Baked Stuffed Pasta Shells, 70
Butter-Braised Spinach with 
Slivered Almonds, 95
Cast Iron Pan Pizza 
Margherita, 78
Chocolate Tiramisu, 126–127
Chopped Caprese Salad with 
Balsamic Vinegar, 35
Crispy Artichoke Hearts with 
Aioli Dip, 19
Dad’s Homemade Pizza 
Dough, 74–75
Eggplant Parmigiana, 92
Espresso-Poached Pears with 
Chocolate Sauce, 136
Farfalle with Grated Zucchini and 
Cream, 66
Fresh Egg Pasta Dough, 54–55
Grilled Pizza with Burrata and 
Fresh Tomatoes, 76–77
Italian Mixed Green Salad with 
Parmigiano Vinaigrette, 32Lemony Risotto with 
Asparagus, 46–47
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream, 128–129
Orecchiette with Cauliflower and 
Crispy Bread, 65
Pappa al Pomodoro (Tomato and 
Bread Soup), 30
Parmigiano Crackers, 81
Parmigiano Popovers, 82
Pasta Fagioli with Cannellini 
Beans, 28
Penne with Roasted Cherry 
Tomato Sauce, 67
Puff pastry Cannoli with Sweet 
Ricotta Cream, 130
Puff Pastry Cornetto with 
Marmalade, 132
Puff Pastry Pizza, 80
Quick Tiramisu with Biscotti and 
Mascarpone, 137
Raspberry-Mascarpone Mini 
Hand Pies, 135
Red and Green Pepper  
Frittata, 42
Risi e Bisi (Venetian Rice and 
Peas), 45
Risotto Milanese with Saffron, 48
Roasted Asparagus with Shallot 
and Parmigiano, 89
Rustic Peach Galette with 
Almond-Nutmeg Topping, 133
Sautéed Polenta Squares with 
Shaved Parmigiano, 41
Sesame-Cheese Bread Sticks, 84Sheet-Pan Frittata with Sun-Dried 
Tomatoes, 44
Sicilian Almond-Orange 
Cookies, 131
Sicilian Orange and Fennel 
Salad, 33
Soft and Cheesy Polenta with 
Roasted Mushrooms, 40
Spaghetti Cacio e Pepe, 62
Spaghetti Cupcake Frittatas, 43
Stracciatella (Italian Egg Drop 
Soup), 31
Tortellini in Brodo with 
Spinach, 27
True Fettuccine Alfredo, 63
Tuscan Ribollita (Hearty 
Vegetable and Bread  
Soup), 26
Venetian Scroppino, 17
Venetian Scroppino, 17
Vinegars, 9
W
White Bean and Sage Crostini, 21
Y
Y ogurt
Mixed Berry Polenta Cobbler 
with Whipped Cream,  
128–129
Z
Zucchini, Grated, and Cream, 
Farfalle with, 66Acknowledgments
THERE ARE SO MANY WONDERFUL INFLUENCES ON MY ITALIAN COOKING.  
When I lived in Italy, and during my many trips to Italy, I had the good fortune to meet and 
cook with lovely people everywhere. Thank you, Gianna Greco in Lecce, Bruno Gianfrate 
in Martina Franca, Stefania Bertaccini in Parma, Chef Vincenzo in Ravello, Giuliana and 
Alessandro of Uncovered Sicily in Ragusa, Chef Marika Contaldo Seguso in Venice, Bianca 
Cingolani in Liguria, my Roman best friend, Malena McGrath, and my Roman roommate, 
Enrica Brunelli. In the States, many thanks to Micol Negrin of Rustico Cooking in New Y ork. 
Thanks, too, to my extended family of Italian American relatives, whose influences are almost 
impossible to measure since they make up who I am (of course, especially my mom). All 
of the recipes in this book have been cooked over and over in my classes. Thank you to my 
fabulous students, who so enthusiastically embraced my recipes and made them their own.About the Author
PAULETTE LICITRA  has been teaching Italian 
cooking in Nashville, Tennessee, since 2009. She leads 
small groups to Italy every year to cook and explore 
regional cuisines. Paulette completed her professional 
culinary studies at the Institute of Culinary Education 
in New Y ork City, and worked at Mario Batali’s Lupa 
restaurant. She’s studied with home cooks and chefs all 
over Italy, including the regions of Lazio, Campania, 
Sicily, Tuscany, Puglia, Liguria, Emilia-Romagna, and 
the Veneto. Paulette is also known as Chef Paulette 
and appears frequently on the Nashville NBC affiliate WSMV-TV . Her writing has 
appeared in the New York Times , Chicago Tribune , and other publications. Paulette 
was founder and publisher of the literary journal Alimentum: The Literature of Food . 
Her first cookbook, Italian Cooking Party , inspired cooks to host their own Italian 
cooking parties. She is a charter member of the Nashville chapter of Les Dames 
d’Escoffier. For more info, see ChefPaulette.net.
