11 / Best of the BestJean-Georges Vongerichten’s Alsatian cooking, American chefs have 
forged a unique approach to food that draws on the ingredients and 
techniques of the entire world. And American diners continue to 
want our chefs to push the boundaries and the boldness farther. 
 This openness to and enthusiasm for crossing boundaries 
make American cuisine unique and exciting. Chefs from Europe 
and Asia come to our kitchens to learn how to integrate various tra-
ditions into a cohesive style of cooking. Certainly any chef is well 
served by studying Italian food in Italy and Japanese food in Japan. 
But to study how to blend the two into a cuisine that moves beyond 
the traditions of either one, for that sort of education they have to 
come to America. 
 The same openness and enthusiasm are also what make 
American cuisine so difficult to define. In 2007 the James Beard  
Foundation hosted a national food festival called Taste America in 
20 cities across the country. As part of the festivities we conducted a  
national online survey about American cuisine, asking participants to 
try to define it and to name iconic American dishes. Not surprisingly, 
the definitions were loose. Regional, local, melting pot, and other terms seasoned the answers, but no clear idea of what American cui-
sine is emerged. By contrast, survey respondents were certain about 
what the most iconic foods were (in order of popularity): hamburgers,  
barbecue, fried chicken, macaroni and cheese, and apple pie.
 What’s interesting is that none of these iconic American dishes 
appear in the pages of this book of iconic American chefs. Interest-
ing, but not surprising. Certainly any one of these chefs would know 
how to make a delicious burger or fry up a crisp piece of chicken. 
And most of them have probably had some form of macaroni and 
cheese on their menu at one time or another. While these dishes are 
not included here, somehow they aren’t that far in the background. 
The bold, straightforward cheesiness of a good mac’n’cheese, the 
simple, eat-with-your-hands casualness of burgers and fried chicken  
are still part of our gastronomic makeup, even when we are sitting 
down to an elegant multicourse dégustation. The universal appeal of these iconic dishes helps alleviate the pretentiousness that can  
often accompany cooking at the culinary heights these Outstanding 
Chefs inhabit. “I sometimes wonder if my being just one generation 
from the covered wagon makes me feel so allied to this country’s gas-
tronomic treasures,” Beard wrote. Well, perhaps none of us is that  
far away. 
 James Beard wrote more than 25 cookbooks in his lifetime, 
so it is fitting to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Foundation 
that bears his name with this incredibly beautiful book. We are grate-
ful to all of the Outstanding Chefs who contributed their time and 
talent as well as to the thousands of chefs who have passed through 
James Beard’s kitchen since Wolfgang Puck first gave us the idea that 
showcasing American chefs might be a noble mission for the Foun-
dation to pursue. The world of cuisine is ever grateful to those who 
had the vision to make the James Beard Foundation a reality and to 
those who will carry on James Beard’s legacy of a bona fide Ameri-
can cuisine into the future. Today our mission reads, “To celebrate, 
nurture, and preserve America’s diverse culinary heritage and  
future.” By supporting the men and women who make great food 
and who inspire us to cook, we are all helping to fulfill that mission. 
 In 2008, Deborah Soloman in the New York Times Magazine 
asked American poet laureate Charles Simic, “What advice would 
you give to people who are looking to be happy?” 
 “For starters,” Simic answered, “learn how to cook.”
EDITOR’S NOTE:
As we went to press, José Andrés was honored with the 2011 James 
Beard Outstanding Chef Award for his exceptional talent and suc-
cessful restaurants, most notably minibar by José Andrés and Jaleo 
in Washington, D.C. Chef Andrés, who has become known for 
popularizing tapas and contemporary Spanish cuisine in America 
and for mixing food and politics, said, “Food is the most powerful 
thing we have in our hands. Not only for chefs, but everyone in the 
food community. The right use of food can end hunger.”13 / Best of the Best
1991 & 1998
WOLFGANG PUCK
ChAPtER one14 / James BeardWOLFGANG PUCK’S nAme mAy noW evoKe for mAny  
PeoPle visions of holly Wood glAmour, of AmeriCA’s  
first reAl “Celebrity Chef .” But Spago, the restaurant that 
catapulted Puck to stardom, was never originally intended to be a 
particularly fancy or glamorous place.
 Ask Puck today why Spago became such a success, and his first 
instinct is to deflect the credit to Hollywood itself. “‘Swifty’ Lazar, 
Orson Welles, they made it famous,” he says, letting their names 
stand in for the throngs of Tinseltown powers who began flocking 
to Spago when it first opened in an unassuming location above the 
Sunset Strip in 1982.
 Spago’s success was based on more than just being a celebrity  
hangout, or on the gourmet pizza that won so much attention in 
the early days. Spago pioneered many restaurant concepts taken for 
granted in restaurants today: the “open kitchen,”—in Puck’s case, a 
wood-burning pizza oven—became part of the dining excitement; an 
emphasis on cooking with locally produced, in-season ingredients; 
and the notion that “fine” dining didn’t have to be a stuffy, formal 
experience but could instead be casual, relaxed, and fun. He was also 
a serious chef, possessing a lifetime of personal and top professional 
cooking experiences when he opened Spago at the age of thirty-two.
 Puck grew up far from ostentation in a cottage with no tele-
vision or radio in Sankt Veit an der Glan, a tiny village in south-
ern Austria. He first learned cooking from his grandmother and 
his mother, Maria Puck, who was pastry chef and baker at the Hotel 
Linde in the lakeside resort town of Maria Wörth. “I used to go there 
with her every summer,” Puck remembers, “and I would follow the 
chefs around. Against the wishes of my father, who thought cooking 
was not a man’s job, I decided I wanted to become a pastry chef. But 
I couldn’t find an apprenticeship.”
 When Puck was fourteen, the owner of the Hotel Linde found 
him an entry-level job at the Hotel Post in Villach. But the chef there 
didn’t like his work and fired him after a month. Despondent and 
not wanting to go home a failure, the teenager sneaked back into the 
kitchen. With the aid of another cook, he hid and slept in the root cellar, peeling potatoes for his keep. The hotel’s owner discovered 
him weeks later and found the persistent Puck another job at the 
Park Hotel. “I spent three years there, completing my apprentice-
ship, getting my certificate as a chef, and finishing first in my age 
group in a national culinary competition when I was sixteen.”
 Puck moved on as part of the kitchen team at Aux Trois Fai-
sans in Dijon, France. “After a year, I found out I’d been working in 
a Michelin one-star restaurant,” Puck says. “Then, I saw that some 
other restaurants had two and three stars, so I wrote to them asking 
for work.”
 Even though the legendary Paul Bocuse was among the chefs 
to whom Puck sent those letters, his response came from the great 
Raymond Thuillier, chef of L’Oustau de Baumanière in Les Baux, 
which is considered the three-star pinnacle of Provençal cuisine. 
“Thuillier was my mentor,” Puck says. “I spent two-and-a-half years 
there and saw what it meant to be a chef doing your own style of 
cooking. Thuillier had only started to cook professionally when he 
was around fifty, so he didn’t have the rigidity of many men his age 
in the kitchen. I really started to understand the potential that food 
had, and it was the first time I started to really like cooking. We used 
only fresh vegetables and everything was cooked to order. That’s still 
how I believe a restaurant must work.”
 From there, Puck cooked in Paris for a while before heading 
back south to the two-star La Reserve in Beaulieu, where he served 
briefly as a chef de partis (line cook)—“very elegant, but run like an army.” 
He left the country for lack of a green card leading to to a stint at the Hotel de Paris in Monte Carlo, where he was the number-one commis, 
or assistant chef, on the vegetable station. Puck’s return to France was 
his “next big jump up” as chef de partis at the historic Maxim’s in Paris, 
cooking a modernized style of classic French cuisine. Promoted to 
night chef, it was a lively time when guests included Brigitte Bardot, 
Jeanne Moreau, Sylvie Vartan, and Barbra Streisand.
 Puck became executive chef at La Tour in Indianapolis,  
Indiana, a job that appealed to him not only as his stepping stone to 
America but also as a fan of car racing, fueled by his time in Monte 15 / Best of the BestCarlo. He admits that his approach was too revved-up for his first 
job as head of a restaurant kitchen. “I was so hyper then,” he recalls. 
“I screamed and yelled constantly.” He soon realized, however, that  
doing so wasn’t the most productive way to manage an American 
kitchen brigade.
 A year later, drawn by the excitement and opportunities of 
the West Coast, he moved to his employer’s Los Angeles restaurant. 
Puck soon met restaurateur Patrick Terrail, whose Uncle Claude 
owned the four-century-old Tour d’Argent in Paris. Terrail had 
opened a bistro called Ma Maison, where Puck started cooking part-
time. He quickly took over the kitchen, and, by June 1975, Puck  
became the co-owner. Both his cooking and his boyish charm 
soon had a following of Hollywood royalty like Billy Wilder, Jack  
Lemmon, and Orson Welles, who especially enjoyed sharing a glass 
of Mumm de Cramant Grand Cru Champagne with the likeable 
young chef to kick off lunch every day.
 After six years at Ma Maison, Puck decided to open his own 
place, and so he ended the partnership with Terrail on July 4, 1981. 
“That was my Independence Day.”
 For his new restaurant, he settled on the name Spago, Medi-
terranean slang for “spaghetti,” which had been suggested by Italian 
songwriter, producer, and recording artist Giorgio Moroder. “He 
was supposed to be the main investor for the restaurant and said that 
the name would be perfect because it also poetically referred to a 
string that never ends,” Puck explains. “Morodoer never wound up 
giving us the money, but the name stuck anyway.”
 There was more to the Spago concept than the name. “I 
thought that Southern California reminded me of the Riviera or, 
even more, of Italy’s Amalfi coast. Yet, at the time, people in the city 
still had the idea that fine dining meant eating in a formal French 
restaurant with starched white tablecloths and waiters in tuxedos.” 
He set out to change the definition of a great meal. “I decided that 
rather than serving the kind of dishes you might get in Paris or Lyon, 
I wanted to grill food to order over oak wood or vine trimmings, 
like they did in the Mediterranean, without complicated sauces, and to keep everything simple.” He had also recently seen a wood-fired 
pizza oven in a pizzeria where a friend was working. “I thought that 
would be a fun thing to have in an upscale restaurant.”
 Spago, which was designed by Puck’s former wife Barbara 
Lazaroff, opened on January 16, 1982. They furnished the restau-
rant on a tight budget, with patio tables and chairs. “People smiled 
when they saw it and they immediately felt relaxed,” Puck says.  
“All these people who were used to stuffy restaurants got the joke.” 
But the food, though casual, was no joke;  Puck concentrated on  
using  the best ingredients he could find. “At that time, people were used to ordering fresh tomato salads all year round,” Puck says. “But 
we would not sell a tomato salad in the wintertime.” He was the first 
non-Asian chef to frequent the Japanese fish market for his seafood. 
He brought in the best fresh sand dabs from Monterey. A farmer in 
Sonoma raised lamb especially to Puck’s specifications. He went to 
Chinatown to buy his chickens—and also bought a Chinese smoker 
to tea-smoke his ducks. Soon, Puck had cultivated a relationship that continues to this day with Chino Farm, considered one of the  
region’s finest sources for seasonal vegetables and fruits. “The only 
thing completely serious at Spago was what was on the plate.”
 Puck’s pizzas grabbed media attention and customer devo-
tion. He didn’t invent the idea of a crispy, cracker-thin crust, but that was just the sort that suited his light, inventive, California-style 
approach. His toppings introduced delicious new possibilities in  
savory pies: goat cheese, pesto, sun-dried tomatoes, fresh Santa 
Barbara shrimp, truffles, and fresh sausage made with the meat from 
those Sonoma lambs.
 Not long after Spago had opened, he created one of its most 
famous pizzas as a last-minute act of whimsy. The actress Joan Collins  
had come in for a late dinner and ordered an appetizer of their house-smoked salmon. “We always served it traditional style, with 
toasted brioche, chopped sweet onion, capers, chives, and lemon  
wedges,” Puck recalls. “But that night, we were so busy that we ran out 
of brioche, so I rolled out some pizza dough to give her instead. At 
the last minute, though, I decided to cover the hot-from-the-oven  16 / James Beardpizza dough with some crème fraîche flavored with fresh dill, add 
some onions, draped the smoked salmon on top, and, because Joan 
loved caviar, put a big dollop of that in the center. Other guests 
started demanding it as soon as they saw it on the way to Joan’s table.” 
 Spago’s smoked salmon pizza became an instant sensation. 
He gradually began building an empire of other restaurants and 
branded activities. Chinois on Main, his second restaurant, opened 
in Santa Monica in 1983 and kicked off fusion cuisine—another  
major food trend. The menu, from Puck and Ma Maison and Spago 
alumnus Kazuto Matsusaka, melded Chinese, Japanese, Thai, and 
Korean influences with the chef’s Californian and French training, 
and was served in a dining room created by Lazaroff as a bold fantasia 
of Asian design. After that came Postrio, located in San Francisco’s 
Prescott Hotel. In 1992, Puck became the first name-brand chef to 
open a restaurant in Las Vegas with Spago in The Forum Shops at 
Caesars Palace. Five more restaurants followed at various locations.
  Today, Puck has two dozen fine-dining restaurants; including 
Spago in Beverly Hills, Las Vegas, Maui, and Beaver Creek, Colorado; 
Chinois and his new ultra-elegant pan-Asian WP24, which opened 
in 2010 in the Ritz-Carlton in Los Angeles; and additional estab-
lishments in Singapore, Detroit, Minneapolis, Dallas, Atlantic City, 
and Washington, D.C. The elegant steakhouse CUT, an acclaimed 
new concept, debuted in the Beverly Wilshire Hotel in 2006, and 
now boasts three locations, with a fourth slated to open in London in 2011. And then there are multiple locations of the quick-casual 
Wolfgang Puck Express and Wolfgang Puck Bistro. Five million fresh 
and frozen Wolfgang Puck pizzas sold each year; twenty-six varieties 
of Wolfgang Puck canned soup are licensed to Campbell’s; and  
Wolfgang Puck-branded cookware, small appliances, kitchen acces-
sories, and tableware are sold on HSN.
 Puck seems at times to be everywhere at once. His frequent 
appearances on ABC’s Good Morning America have made him a regular  
since 1986. He hosted an Emmy Award–winning Food Network  
series in the early 2000s and is the author of six cookbooks. How does he do it all and still maintain the level of quality 
and creativity for which he is renowned? Credit some of that success 
to the fact that he has mentored some of the most talented cooks 
in America, including Mark Peel, Nancy Silverton, Neal Fraser, 
Govind Armstrong, Michael Cimarusti, Josiah Citrin, and Quinn 
and Karen Hatfield, as well as Spago executive chef and corporate 
managing partner Lee Hefter, and executive pastry chef Sherry Yard.
 
“I’ve LeArNed thA t tO be A SUCCeSS At ANythING,” he 
SAyS, “y OU’ve GOt tO FINd the beS t PeOPLe, trAIN them 
WeLL, Let them KNOW WhA t yOU exPeCt, treA t them 
WeLL, ANd theN ALLOW them the FreedOm t O dO WhA t 
they dO beS t.”
  Puck has the seemingly boundless energy of a man who truly 
loves what he does. On weekdays, he can be found at Spago Bev-
erly Hills. He is constantly on the move between the kitchen, work-
ing alongside his chefs, and the dining room, stopping by at tables 
and greeting guests. He cheerfully poses for photos and autographs 
cookbooks. Later he drives to Chinois or WP24 to make the same 
rounds. “By the time I get home, it can be after midnight,” he admits. 
“But I tell everyone that twelve hours is only half a day. If you only 
work twelve hours, you’re never going to be successful.” On week -
ends, he may be participating in philanthropic activities, and Puck  
relishes time with older sons Cameron and Byron, and family life 
with his wife, Gelila, and their two young sons, Oliver and Alexander.
 The first James Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef  
honoree—and the only person to be awarded that honor twice—
played a major role in the California culinary revolution, and has 
turned into an American celebration of health-conscious, sustain-
able, and delicious dining habits. He has done it all by following a 
recipe for success that is disarming in its directness and modesty:  
“Do what you love. Work hard. Be patient. And, with a little luck, you  
could succeed.”
18 / James Beard
19 / Best of the Best1. Preheat the oven to 500°F.
2. Peel the ginger, reserving the peels, and cut it into thin strips. Cut the peels into coarse 
strips. In a small saucepan, cook the ginger and garlic with 1/2 cup of the plum wine and the 
rice wine vinegar until 1 tablespoon of liquid remains. Remove from the heat.
3. Place a heavy, heatproof 12-inch skillet over high heat. Add the oil, then carefully add the 
lobster halves, meat-side down. Cook for 3 minutes. Turn the lobsters over and add 1 table-
spoon of the butter. Continue to sauté until the lobster shells get red and the butter is nutty 
red. Transfer the lobsters to the oven for about 10 minutes, or until the meat is just cooked. Remove from the oven, remove the lobsters from the skillet, and keep warm. 
4. Add the scallions, ginger peels, and curry powder to the skillet. Over high heat, sauté the 
mixture for 10 to 15 seconds, then whisk in the remaining plum wine, stock, white wine, 
black vinegar, and chili flakes. Reduce the liquid to 1/2 cup. Add the cream and reduce it by 
half. Add any liquid from the julienne of ginger, then whisk in the remaining 1 tablespoon butter. Season the sauce with salt and pepper.
5. Wash the spinach, cut off the stems, and dry the leaves well. In a large pot, heat the oil to 
375°F and fry the spinach until crisp. Remove to paper towels to drain. Salt lightly. 
6. Crack the lobster claws with the back of a large chef’s knife. Arrange the lobster halves on 
a warm platter, meat-side down. Strain the sauce over the lobster, then sprinkle the sweet ginger on top. Garnish with the spinach leaves.
 
SERVES 21/4 cup dry white wine
1 tablespoon Chinese black vinegar or  
balsamic vinegar
1/2 teaspoon dried hot chili flakes
1/2 cup heavy cream
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
 
12 large spinach leavesPeanut oil, for frying1 piece fresh ginger, approximately 1 inch2 garlic cloves, minced
3/4 cup plum wine or port, divided
2 tablespoons rice vinegar
2 tablespoons peanut oil
one 2-pound lobster, split lengthwise
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, divided
4 scallions, cut into 3/8-inch slices
1 to 2 teaspoons curry powder
1/2 cup fish stockLOBSTER SHANGHAI STYLE  with CRISPY SPINACH20 / James Beard1. In a small bowl, dissolve the yeast and honey in 1/4 cup of the warm water.
2. In a mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine the flour and salt. Add the oil, yeast mix-
ture, and the remaining 3/4 cup water and mix on low speed until the dough comes cleanly 
away from the sides of the bowl and clusters around the dough hook, about 5 minutes. (The 
pizza dough can also be made in a food processor. Dissolve the yeast as above. Combine the 
flour and salt in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the metal blade. Pulse once or twice, add the remaining ingredients, and process until the dough begins to form a ball that rides 
around the side of the bowl on top of the blade.)
3. Turn the dough out onto a clean work surface and knead by hand 2 or 3 minutes longer. 
The dough should feel smooth and firm. Cover the dough with a clean, damp towel and let it rise in a warm spot for about 30 minutes. When ready, the dough should stretch easily as 
it is lightly pulled.
4. Place a pizza stone on the middle rack of the oven and preheat it to 500°F.TOPPINGS
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium red onion, cut into julienne strips
2 tablespoons minced fresh dill,  
plus 4 small sprigs for garnish1 cup sour cream or crème fraîcheFreshly ground black pepper
1 pound smoked salmon, sliced paper thin
4 heaping tablespoons domestic golden caviar
4 heaping teaspoons black caviarPIZZA DOUGH
21/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 teaspoon honey
1 cup warm water (105 to 115°F), divided3 cups all-purpose flour,  
plus additional for stretching the dough1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil,  
plus additional for brushingPIZZA  with SMOKED SALMON and  CAVIAR
CONTINUED21 / Best of the Best
22 / James Beard5. Divide the dough into 4 balls, about 6 ounces each. Work each ball by pulling down the 
sides and tucking under the bottom of the ball. Repeat four or five times to form a smooth, 
even, firm ball. Then on a smooth, unfloured surface, roll the ball under the palm of your 
hand until the top of the dough is smooth and firm, about 1 minute. Cover the dough with a damp towel and let it rest 15 to 20 minutes. At this point, the balls can be wrapped in plastic 
and refrigerated for up to 2 days.
6. To prepare each pizza, dip a ball of dough into flour, shake off the excess flour, place the 
dough on a clean, lightly floured surface, and start to stretch the dough. While turning it, press down on the center with the heel of your hand, spreading the dough into an 8-inch 
circle, with its outer rim a little thicker than the inner circle. If you find this difficult to do, use a small rolling pin to roll out the dough. 
7. Place the pizza on a lightly floured pizza peel or rimless baking sheet. Brush the center of the 
pizza to within 1 inch of the edge with the olive oil and sprinkle it with some of the onion. Slide 
the pizza onto the baking stone and bake 8 to 12 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown. 
Carefully remove the pizza with the peel or baking sheet and transfer it to a cutting board.
8. Mix the dill with the sour cream or crème fraîche and season with pepper. Transfer the 
pizza to a heated dinner plate and spread it with 1/4 cup of the sour cream mixture.
9. Divide the salmon into 4 portions, and arrange one portion decoratively over the cream.
10. Place a spoonful of golden caviar in the center of the pizza, then spoon a little of the black 
caviar into the center of the golden caviar. With a pizza cutter or large, sharp knife, cut the 
pizza into fourths and serve immediately. Repeat with the remaining dough and toppings for 
3 more pizzas.
 
SERVES 423 / Best of the Best1. Combine all the ingredients for the strawberry sauce in a medium saucepan. Bring to a 
boil. Cook for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and cover with plastic wrap. Allow the fla-
vors to infuse for 10 minutes. Transfer the mixture to a blender and process until well incor-
porated. Strain. The sauce can be prepared up to 3 days ahead and refrigerated.
2. To make the kaiser base, in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, 
combine the egg yolks and about 1/2 cup of the sugar. Mix on medium speed until pale yellow. 
Add the crème fraîche and rum. Continue to mix until smooth. Fold in the raisins and flour. 
The base can be prepared up to 1 day in advance and refrigerated.
3. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Brush four 6-inch sauté pans with butter and sprinkle with 
sugar.
4. In a clean bowl, whisk the egg whites to soft peaks. Add the remaining sugar and continue 
to whip until stiff but not dry. Fold the meringue into the kaiser base. Spoon the mixture into the 4 pans. Bake until golden brown and nicely risen, about 12 minutes.
5. In a medium sauté pan, reheat the strawberry sauce. Add the fresh strawberries and toss 
until well coated. Divide among individual plates. Spoon kaiserschmarrn over the berries and serve immediately.
 
SERVES 4 TO 8KAISER BASE
3 large eggs, separated
1 large egg yolk
2/3 cup sugar, plus extra for garnish
8 ounces crème fraîche2 tablespoons dark rum2 tablespoons plumped organic golden raisins4 teaspoons flourUnsalted butter, at room temperature, for brushing1 pound organic strawberries, hulled and halvedSTRAWBERRY SAUCE
8 ounces organic strawberries, hulled
1/2 orange, juiced
1/4 cup dry white wine
3 tablespoons sugar1
1/2 teaspoons orange zest
11/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 whole star aniseKAISERSCHMARRN25 / Best of the Best
1992
ALICe WA terS
ChAPtER two26 / James BeardIt’S beeN ALmOS t FOrty yeArS sinCe AliCe WA ters gAve 
A rAmshACKle house in berKeley , CAliforniA, A fresh  
stArt A s A rest AurAnt , gro Wing it into A beAC on of 
orgAniC, sust AinAble eAting. Waters herself has become 
widely recognized as one of the foremost voices in reshaping the way 
Americans view food.
 Waters wasn’t thinking about organic food or sustainable  
agriculture or including farmers in a “movement” when she per-
suaded a group of friends to invest in a French-style neighborhood 
bistro in 1971. The twenty-seven-year-old had never even worked 
in a restaurant, but she thought Chez Panisse could serve delightful 
meals and be an informal gathering place for good food and enlight-
ened conversation.
 From the beginning, her goal was to recreate the flavors and 
community that she experienced during a sojourn in France in 
the mid-1960s. There, she was particularly impressed by the taste 
of food and the numerous farmers’ markets where people bought 
fresh produce daily and cooked it in their homes that same day. She 
took note of a culture where everyone, it seemed, enjoyed food— 
buying it, preparing it, eating it, and sharing it with friends and 
family. Thus Waters positioned herself more as proprietress of Chez 
Panisse: meeting, greeting, and mingling, and serving as the estab-
lishment’s authority on taste.
 The restaurant was named for Honoré Panisse, the generous 
and life-loving character in Marcel Pagnol’s 1930s Fanny Trilogy  
of films (“Marius,” “Fanny,” and “César”). The restaurant’s name 
was an homage to the warmth, comedy, and informality of the  
classic films.
 Waters graduated in 1967 from the University of California, 
Berkeley, where free speech, women’s rights, and the student anti-
war movement honed her idealistic perspective. She tried to right what she believed was wrong, without concern for consequence. Her 
activist nature became entrenched during that time. 
 Through its first decade, the restaurant had dramatic ups and 
downs, but Waters kept her eye on her goal, and when the ingredients  like those she relished in France were unavailable from the usual 
purveyors, she convinced local farmers to grow seasonal produce 
that would be cooked as soon after harvest as possible. 
 Consequently, she helped stimulate a community of local 
farmers, ranchers, and fisherman who assured a steady supply of  
ingredients. Waters also began to educate herself about organic 
farming. Soon, she was swept up in, often leading, the emerging 
California culinary revolution of the 1970s and 1980s that ushered 
in local, organically grown foods, a trend that was nurtured by Cali-
fornia’s chefs and vintners. 
 In the 1970s, with Waters as proprietor and Jeremiah Tower 
as chef, the two presented regionally themed French menus made 
with California’s bounty. The trend that celebrated local ranchers, 
fishermen, and farmers began emerging in other parts of the coun-
try, inspired by what was happening on the West Coast.
 Waters has also been a pioneer in promoting education about 
food production, the benefits of good nutrition, and respect for 
the environment. As she has influenced the American culinary 
scene, Chez Panisse has continued to gain national recognition and  
honors. Waters feels that good food should be a right and not a privi-lege; that meats should be antibiotic and hormone free; that produce  
should be grown without pesticides and herbicides. She believes that 
everyone deserves this food and that this approach is not elitist. 
 Waters was awarded the French Legion of Honor in April 
2010 in recognition of her success in preserving and bringing to 
America French food values and traditions. Rarely given to a chef, 
the honor really touched Waters. “I realized that I was preserving 
a lot more than just my own taste and way of doing it and running  
a restaurant. 
I WAS FeedING bACK rIGht INtO thA t rIver OF hUmANIty 
thA t CherISheS the v ALUeS OF SUStAINAbILIty, FrIeNd-
ShIP , GeNerOSIty, ANd ALL thOSe thINGS thA t hA ve beeN  
PArt OF CIvILIzA tION SINCe the beGINNING OF tIme.” 27 / Best of the Best Chez Panisse reflects Waters’s desire for relaxed dining in a 
low-key, hospitable atmosphere. The set menu changes every night, 
appropriate to the season, featuring the finest local organic ingre-
dients. Monday night’s menus are simpler than other evenings; Fri-
day’s and Saturday’s menus are more complex and more expensive.
 In 1980, the Café at Chez Panisse opened upstairs from the 
iconic restaurant. The Café offers a casual alternative to the for-mal downstairs menu, serving a moderately priced à la carte menu  
inspired by the daily market. The open kitchen along one side of the room showcases a wood-burning oven that has been a fixture in the restaurant almost from the beginning. It is now paired with a char-
coal grill.  
 The classic Craftsman style of the building has been main-
tained, with flourishes of casually arranged colorful fruits, vegeta-
bles, and flowers. Each spring, bursts of white and purple wisteria blooms dress the outside of the building, setting a beautiful stage for 
the food within. 
 As testament to Waters’s pioneering spirit and culinary vision, 
numerous well-known chefs have worked at Chez Panisse on their 
way up, to absorb the fundamental ethics of the restaurant, among 
them Mark Miller, Jonathan Waxman, and Judy Rodgers (named 
Outstanding Chef 2004 by the James Beard Foundation), who  
began her career there as the lunch chef. Gilbert Pilgram, Rodgers’s 
partner at her restaurant, Zuni Café, was himself a mainstay at Chez 
Panisse for twenty-five years before he retired, then went back into 
the business with Rodgers. 
 Rodgers, who spent a summer in France with the culinary 
Troisgros family, says the fact that Michel Troisgros, the son of Pierre Troisgros, worked at Chez Panisse from 1978 to 1980, made a state-
ment about the potential of the restaurant and the direction of food in America at that time. “It was pretty amazing that the Troisgros 
family would send their son to work in this little restaurant in San 
Francisco, because that was an era when you sent them to appren-
tice with Michel Guérard and Roger Vergé,” Rodgers commented. 
The Troisgros family understood that the American market was  important, she says, “But I also think it was partly their sense of  
adventure—they sensed that Chez Panisse was an important direction 
for food.” 
 In 1996, long before better food in school lunches became 
a national issue, Waters embarked on a mission to teach children about healthy eating and respect for the environment with a garden-
ing and cooking project she labeled Edible Schoolyard. 
 Through the Chez Panisse Foundation, an organization  
created by Waters to support programs that bring healthy food and eating into schools, the first garden and kitchen-classroom was  
established at the Martin Luther King Jr. Middle School in Berkeley. 
Students grow, harvest, and prepare food on the site, which teaches 
them to appreciate how food is produced and prepared, and in turn, 
encourages them to eat healthier foods. As Waters says, “This is an effort to bring kids into a new relationship to food; not telling chil-dren what they should eat, just allowing them to fall in love with 
nature and with culture. And it’s not hard because they have been 
starved of good food for so long.” 
 Waters enthusiastically advocates creating a curriculum that 
teaches food principles, from growing fruits and vegetables to har-
vesting and cooking them, in every public school in America. The 
Chez Panisse Foundation provides a precise blueprint and guideline 
for planning and implementing the program; its thoroughness is 
inspired by Waters’s training at a Montessori school following col-
lege. Edible Schoolyards have been planted and are growing in urban 
acres across the country and more are being planned. Waters wrote 
recently, “The schools must become the places where we teach our 
children slow-food values. There should be gardens in every school, 
and there should be school lunch programs that serve real food,  
local, sustainably grown food.” 
 Waters particularly admires Michelle Obama for her commit-
ment to food education by involving children in the White House’s 
organic garden and her work to bring better food to the nation’s 
schools. “Seeds for the Future” would be an appropriate headline for 
the culinary garden at the White House, suggests Waters. “What’s so 28 / James Beardimportant is that Michelle Obama really grew up with a set of values 
that included this big ecological picture, and obviously her love for 
children and their good health,” she says. The First Lady, by speak-
ing from her heart, has made better nutrition her own cause, Waters 
notes. “I’d like to think that I shoveled in some fertile soil there. 
But she made it her own, and I was just thrilled that she brought in 
school children—thrilled that it happened two months after Obama 
got into office. They even have a beehive and a compost heap.” 
 Food activist Poppy Tooker, founder of Slow Food New  
Orleans, who helped spur an Edible Schoolyard project in that city, 
says of Waters, “Alice is completely uncompromising, and with her  
extreme standards in the food world, is able to carry it all off with an enchanting sweet smile.” Tooker warns the unwary, “Waters carries 
a sledgehammer of determination. Given her way—and she’ll prob-ably get it—every child in America will eat real food. And she’ll make 
it possible for children from kindergarten all the way to high school 
to be educated about ecology and gastronomy. Alice’s incredible, 
driving will is more than anyone else I’ve ever come across.” 
 Waters has always believed that ideas about healthy food have 
to be stamped in important places. Through Slow Food Nation, a 
branch of the Slow Food movement, gardens for the public’s viewing 
were planted in front of City Hall in San Francisco and on the Mall 
in Washington, D.C., as part of a Smithsonian event. 
 During a Los Angeles conference in 2010, Waters empha-
sized projects that have inspired her, such as the Greensborough 
Children’s Museum in North Carolina that allows children to grow 
food in the garden and also shop for vegetables in a store that is part 
of the museum. “The idea of linking food with art and culture is ter-
ribly important,” Waters says. “Not just agriculture—that’s vital—but 
to bring food back into the beauty of a museum just kind of takes my 
breath away. It’s where I’m trying to go right now. Out of the place 
of foodies and into the place of tradition and ritual.” 
 She points to the two-day garden installed in 2010 at the Arc 
de Triomphe in Paris extending down to the Place de la Concorde, 
as the most spectacular example of creating beauty with food. More than 8,000 plots of earth, 150,000 plants, and almost 700 fully 
grown trees as well as pigs, cows, horses, and sheep were on display 
The purpose was to educate visitors and demonstrate the values of 
Mother Nature by highlighting her work. Waters sees boundless pos-
sibilities for other such gardens in many other places: “It’s these 
kinds of ideas that can lift our spirits right now, and we need to hear 
about the good news.”30 / James Beard
31 / Best of the Best1. With a mortar and pestle, purée the garlic. Transfer the garlic to a bowl, add the vinegar, 
and season with salt and pepper. Whisk in the oil to make a vinaigrette. 
2. In a large bowl, add the greens, radishes, chives or chervil, or both. 
3. Add three-quarters of the vinaigrette; toss, and taste. Add more dressing as needed. Serve 
immediately. 
 
SERVES 41/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil 
4 handfuls mixed greens (8 ounces) 
3 radishes, sliced into rounds 1 tablespoon coarsely chopped fresh chives  
or chervil1 garlic clove, peeled 1 tablespoon red wine vinegar Salt Freshly ground black pepper SUMMER SALAD garden lettuce salad
ADAPTED FROM THE ART OF SIMPLE FOOD32 / James Beard1. Trim the turnips, reserving the leaves. Peel the turnips unless very small and tender. Cut 
them crosswise into thin slices and reserve. 
2. In a nonreactive saucepan over low to medium heat, combine the oil, butter, and 1 table-
spoon water. Add the onion and garlic. Sauté until translucent. Add the turnips and cook 
until soft, approximately 4 minutes. Add the stock, prosciutto, bay leaf, thyme, and season 
with salt and pepper. Cover and simmer over low heat until the turnips are very tender, about 1 hour. Working in batches in a blender or food processor, purée the mixture until smooth. 
3. Bring a small stockpot or large saucepan two-thirds full of salted water to a rolling boil. 
Blanch the turnip greens by boiling until tender, about 30 seconds; immediately plunge 
them into ice water. The leaves should be tender but still bright green. Purée the greens with 
a little of the soup. 
4. Ladle the soup into serving bowls. Drizzle the blended turnip greens on top, drizzle with 
extra-virgin olive oil, and garnish with Parmesan, if using.
NOTE:  Water or vegetable stock may be substituted for the chicken stock and the prosciutto 
omitted for a meatless version of this soup. 
 
SERVES 4 TO 61 bay leaf 
1/2 teaspoon chopped fresh thyme 
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper Extra-virgin olive oil, for garnishParmesan cheese, grated, for garnish (optional)2
1/2 pounds young turnips with greens, washed 
1 tablespoon olive oil 1 tablespoon unsalted butter 1 yellow onion, thinly sliced 1 garlic clove, thinly sliced 2 quarts chicken stock 2 ounces prosciutto or smoked bacon, dicedTURNIP and TURNIP GREENS SOUP
FROM CHEZ PANISSE VEGETABLES33 / Best of the BestTo make the galette dough
1. Combine the flour, sugar, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Cut 1/4 cup of the butter into 
the flour mixture with a pastry blender, mixing until the mixture resembles coarse corn-
meal. Cut in the remaining butter with the pastry blender until the mixture again resembles 
coarse cornmeal. Sprinkle the ice water into the flour mixture gradually, tossing and mixing  
between additions, until the dough just holds together. Continue tossing until it is ropy with 
some dry patches. If it’s too dry, add an additional tablespoon of water and toss until the 
dough comes together. Do not overwork the dough. 
CONTINUEDAPRICOT GALETTE
ADAPTED FROM CHEZ PANISSE FRUIT
GALETTE
Flour for dusting 
3 pounds ripe apricots, pitted and quartered 
1 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar, divided 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, meltedGALETTE DOUGH
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour 
1 teaspoon sugar 
1/4 teaspoon salt 
3/4 cup unsalted butter, chilled, diced 1/2 inch 
7 tablespoons ice water 
FRANGIPANE
1 cup almond paste 
1/2 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 large egg
2 tablespoons sugar 
3 teaspoons flour 34 / James Beard
35 / Best of the Best2. Divide the dough in half; firmly press each half into a ball. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap. 
Press down, flattening each ball into a 4-inch disk. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes  
before rolling out. (Store the remaining dough in the refrigerator up to 2 days.)
3. When the dough is malleable but still cold, place 1 disk on a lightly floured surface and 
roll it into a 14-inch circle 1/8 inch thick. Remove excess flour from both sides with a dry 
pastry brush. Transfer the dough to an upside-down baking sheet lined with parchment and 
refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before using. 
To make the frangipane
1. In a small bowl, mix the almond paste and butter until smooth. Add the egg, sugar, and 
flour and combine well. Reserve. 
To make the galette 
1. Put a pizza stone on the lower rack and preheat the oven to 400°F. Spread 1/4 cup of the 
frangipane on the dough round and dust it lightly with flour. Leaving the border bare, layer the apricots, skin-side down, and snugly touching, in concentric circles on the dough. 
Evenly sprinkle 
1/2 cup of the sugar over the apricots. While rotating, fold and crimp the 
exposed dough edge against the outer circle of fruit. Fold the dough edge up and over  
itself at regular intervals, creating a containing rim resembling a length of rope. Pinch off any excess dough. Brush the crust edge with melted butter and sprinkle with the remaining  
2 tablespoons sugar. 
2. Slide the parchment paper and dough onto the pizza stone. Bake until the crust is well 
browned and the edges are slightly caramelized, 45 to 50 minutes. Remove from the oven 
and immediately place the galette on a cooling rack. Cool for 20 minutes before slicing.
 
SERVES 837 / Best of the Best
1993
LArry FOrGIONe
ChAPtER three38 / James Beard“IF JAmeS beArd IS KNOWN AS the ‘FA ther’ OF AmerICAN 
CUISINe, then lArry forgione is Cert Ainly the ‘god-
fAther,’” according to John Mariani, author, critic, and food 
authority, who assigned the moniker decades ago, explaining that, 
“Larry Forgione followed Beard’s inspiration by guiding American 
cuisine into the modern era. That’s what a true godfather does for 
someone or something young and without direction.”
 Larry’s career traces America’s culinary roots and reconnects 
them with modern cuisine. Many of today’s chef superstars have built 
their reputations outside their restaurants. In addition to running 
acclaimed kitchens, they spread their gospel through Web sites and 
blogs and, of course, television. When Forgione entered the American  
culinary scene in the late 1970s, there were no twenty-four-hour tele-
vision channels devoted to food and cooking. His reputation as a great 
chef was based on the talent upon which he built a restaurant empire.
 A Long Island native, Forgione entered the kitchen without 
a long-term goal of staying there. As a physical education major at a 
college in West Virginia, he skipped a semester because he developed 
pneumonia. When he recovered, a cousin with a catering firm in 
Brooklyn gave him a job picking through parsley and doing all the 
things an eighteen-year-old with no experience could do.
 But Forgione soon signed on at the posh Breakers Hotel in 
Palm Beach, Florida. Food appealed to his senses and it was exciting 
to see the kitchen action. He enrolled in the Culinary Institute of 
America (CIA), and was in the first graduating class at the Hyde Park 
campus in 1974. He continues to be an active supporter of the school 
and is now a member of the admissions committee.
 After the CIA, Forgione went to work for Michel Bourdin, 
formerly of Maxim’s in Paris, then heading the restaurants at Lon-
don’s renowned Connaught Hotel. “I was there for more than two 
years, and each day I would see wonderful new foods we didn’t have—
the seafood from France, chanterelles and black chanterelles, tiny 
haricots vert. Why don’t we have chanterelles in the United States?” 
Forgione questioned. “How come they have everything and we seem-
ingly have so little?” Forgione stayed almost three years in London instead of the 
one year he’d anticipated. With a newfound appreciation of fine  
ingredients, he returned to New York in 1977 and worked with chef 
Michel Guérard at Regine’s. Then, Buzzy O’Keefe, the owner of 
the River Café, lured him in 1979 with the goal of lifting his restau-
rant to the level of greatness. “I realized it would give me the buying 
power to develop the products I wanted to use,” Forgione recalls. 
He courted farmers, producers, foragers, fishermen, mycologists, 
and hunters. It was during this time that he and the legendary James 
Beard became friends. 
  Solidifying his principles of cooking, the European experi-
ence also stoked Forgione’s patriotism. “In the U.S., when someone 
asks you what you are, you usually say the country where your grand-
parents were born, but in Europe you say you’re an American. In 
food, I realized my country was getting the short end of the culinary 
stick.” Americans were cooking for convenience, not the natural 
bounty of locally grown, regional ingredients. Forgione continues 
to be passionate about his approach, updating and inventing, and treating American foodstuffs with his creative skill. 
 Beard, who replaced the French masters as Forgione’s guru 
and mentor, validated his approach. “Jim could remember all the 
foods that have disappeared that he worked to have cultivated again. 
I looked at the apples on the market, and there are so few, and he 
would tell me about the ones that used to grow in his yard in Port-
land,” remembers Forgione.
 When Forgione was ready to open his own restaurant, Beard 
remembered a former Manhattan gallery called An American 
Place that had featured young American artists, including Georgia 
O’Keeffe. Beard liked the connection between the name and the 
type of cuisine for which Forgione was building a reputation and 
suggested it as a name for the new restaurant. 
 The name “An American Place” reflected both the concept of 
the dishes and the ingredients comprising them. Forgione wanted to  
give American food a special integrity by looking to the past and 
cooking in the present. His food has always reflected this desire, 39 / Best of the Bestand Forgione doesn’t do slavish recreations of historic dishes, even 
those with distinct roots in the past. He looks at the components 
of nineteenth-century dishes, for example, and then adds his  
special touch.
 James Beard ate at An American Place every week. Jackie 
Onassis was a regular. Dan Rather and Warren Beatty claimed their 
own tables. After restaurateur Danny Meyer, who would later be 
named the 1996 James Beard Foundation Humanitarian of the Year, 
sampled the restaurant, he announced that there was a new game in 
town. Other restaurateurs flocked to see what was going on. “One 
night, twenty-six of the twenty-eight tables were filled with restaurant 
critics, food writers, or chefs,” the avuncular Forgione remembers.
 “Forgione was part of an important and small group of chefs 
who were at the forefront of the ‘new American cuisine movement’ 
in the early 1980s,” notes Meyer. “An American Place was the first 
restaurant in New York that applied the notion of buying seasonal 
foods from local farmers and using those ingredients to update and 
improve American classics.” 
 Forgione also showcased American specialties, cooking the 
kind of American food he envisioned—honest food, nothing con-
trived; food that tasted and felt good. 
“I WANted the GreA t INGredIeNt S, ANd I beGAN t O  
beLIeve thA t tO GIve AmerICAN COOKING A PLACe IN the 
FUtUre, We hA ve t O reACh bACK t O the INteGrIty OF 
yeSterd Ay,” he SA yS WIth A PrOPhet’S CONvICtION. 
 An American Place changed locations several times before  
finally closing in 2010. During that time, Forgione earned the title 
“businessman/chef” by opening restaurants throughout the city. The 
Grill Room, Marketplace Express, Rosehill, the Coach House, Res-
taurant Above, and Manhattan Prime all bore the Forgione name. 
He entered an agreement with the Lord & Taylor department store 
chain to open a series of Larry Forgione’s Signature Cafes around 
the country, as well. Forgione usually self-financed his expansions,  preferring to maintain control, but he says the motivation for opening  
new restaurants isn’t just financial. Always, the food comes first. He 
considers himself a “chef-restaurateur,” someone who puts restau-
rants together with the food as the prime consideration. 
 Forgione has published two cookbooks, An American Place and 
Heart-Healthy Cooking for All Seasons. An American Place was the recipient of 
the James Beard Foundation award for Best American Cookbook 
in 1996.
 Most recently, his energies and vast experience are focused 
on consulting. Forgione consults as the culinary director of Clarke’s 
Group, owners of New York’s legendary P. J. Clarke’s restaurants, 
now expanding across the country. He’s involved with ingredient  
sourcing and ensuring a farm-to-table ethos in the restaurant  
despite its high volume. 
 He is also the co-founder of American Spoon Foods, a Mich-
igan specialty food company formed in 1981 to produce preserves 
and jellies using the highest-quality American ingredients. Forgione and Justin Rashid—who foraged for the chef’s restaurants—had the 
idea to make fifty or 100 cases for the restaurants, then make another 
hundred or so and sell them. The products are available through 
mail order, as well as at the six stand-alone American Spoon stores 
and through other outlets. 
 One event in which Forgione was involved forever changed 
the dynamics of professional kitchens across the United States. Ten 
chefs came together in a historic convergence at the American Insti-
tute of Wine and Food’s first event in San Francisco on May 4, 1983. 
Held at the Stanford Court Hotel, the new institute’s kickoff occa-
sion was launched by the late winemakers Robert Mondavi and Dick 
Graff, along with Julia Child. It was the first formal gathering of 
all that talent in one place, cooking together, celebrating American 
wine and food, showcasing an eight-course dinner for 300 guests. 
 When Forgione, Jeremiah Tower, Jonathan Waxman, Mark 
Miller, Paul Prudhomme, Wolfgang Puck, and the other chefs all 
met, what they had in common was a search for superior ingredients 
that they could showcase with their simple cooking techniques. “It 40 / James Beardwas just realizing that the freshest is the best,” says Forgione. “The 
other great thing about our generation of chefs is that everybody was 
very willing to share, very willing to promote the product that they 
had found, and that they had created.”
 Those few days of unity, creative stimulation, and hilarity 
solidified the concepts of engaging the public in an exploration of 
California wines and American foods. It brought appreciation and 
focus to what’s now known as new American cooking. 
 Speaking with characteristic reserve, Forgione is nonetheless 
unwavering, true to his convictions three decades after identifying 
his direction: “The key to the future of American cooking is to get 
the ingredients. I remember reading that Fernand Point once said 
of La Pyramide that you can’t have a great food without great ingre-
dients. And I decided that no American-food restaurant could be of 
world-class caliber until the ingredients were at that level.” 
 The chef is the first to admit that the dishes he creates today 
could not have been listed on menus when he began, since the raw 
ingredients were not domestically obtainable. That they are now is 
due in large part to Forgione’s efforts. The influence of his restau-
rants on American cooking landed him a place as one of LIFE maga-
zine’s “50 Most Influential Baby Boomers” in June 1996. No other 
individual from the restaurant industry was listed. 
 Now, Forgione’s priorities include a deep interest in the devel-
opment of the craft among younger chefs. “A lot of people don’t take 
the time to build up the strength of their career,” observes Forgione.  
“The successful ones put in the time when they’re younger.”  
He is clearly referring to the apprentice tradition and passing on 
that knowledge as James Beard did for him.
 Among youngsters who did put in the time are products of 
the Forgione household. Three of his four children are in the busi-
ness. Marc Forgione has his own successful New York restaurant, 
Restaurant Marc Forgione, and he became an Iron Chef. He did his  
career the right way in his dad’s opinion. “Growing up, Marc worked 
weekends and holidays at An American Place. He was a little ahead of 
most graduates from any cooking school because of the experience, so he studied hotel and restaurant management at the University of 
Massachusetts. Then he went to Michel Guérard’s restaurant, now a 
family tradition, for what was supposed to be a six-month stay. He 
ended up there for almost a year,” says Larry Forgione.
 Bryan Forgione followed his father to the CIA, and, like 
Marc, worked weekends and holidays at An American Place. Bryan 
owned a barbecue restaurant in Long Beach, New York, and is cur-
rently executive chef of Society Café Encore in Las Vegas, Nevada. 
 Forgione’s youngest son, Sean, at first decided to forego the 
kitchen in favor of a career somewhat similar to being a high-stakes 
restaurateur—playing Texas Hold’em Poker professionally. But he 
is now working with his brother, Bryan, in restaurants to gain the 
knowledge and experience to succeed in the industry. Forgione’s 
daughter, Cara, works in creative services of the marketing and  
promotions department for a start-up clothing business. 
 As he did with his children, Forgione has always encouraged 
budding chefs. Christina Machamer, of Hell’s Kitchen and Bouchon 
Beverly Hills, is among those who have knocked on Forgione’s kitchen  
door and were welcomed. “I decided to start at the top restaurant 
and work my way down, offering free labor for experience,” she says. 
“I was willing to do anything to get into the best restaurant in St. 
Louis, which was An American Place. I didn’t even have knives.”  
 “He was very paternal and, more than anyone, took an inter-
est in me. Chef took me under his wing,” Machamer remembers. 
After exposing her to the discipline, rigor, and techniques of a pro-
fessional kitchen, Forgione steered her to the Culinary Institute of 
America. Following graduation from his alma mater, she competed 
in Hell’s Kitchen, Fox television’s ferocious reality-based show. By 
winning—no small feat of accomplishment—she earned a job with 
chef Gordon Ramsey. She’s now a chef tournant at Thomas Keller’s 
Bouchon in Los Angeles, another step up the culinary training lad-
der. Other culinary notables that have passed through Forgione’s 
kitchen include Melissa Kelly, Cat Cora, and Michael Cimarusti.
 Forgione’s generosity in encouraging future chefs is yet  
another excellent reason to call him “the godfather.” 42 / James Beard
43 / Best of the BestTo make the concassé
1. Heat the oil in a sauté pan. When hot, add the shallots and tomatoes and stir. Cook for a 
minute or two. Add the wine and a few turns of pepper from a mill. Let the mixture simmer 
for 3 to 4 minutes or until most of the moisture has evaporated. Spoon the concassé into a 
bowl, set aside, and keep warm. 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon w orcestershire sauce 
2 tablespoons finely sliced fresh chivesGrated zest of 
1/2 lemon
1/2 teaspoon grated fresh ginger
Sea saltFreshly ground black pepper
GARNISHES AND OYSTERS
Coarse saltFresh seaweed or watercressBlack and pink peppercornsJulienned fresh gingerthyme sprigs
1 dozen fresh oysters, shucked, on the half shell12 pieces sushi-grade sea urchin roe
Chopped fresh chivesCONCASSÉ
1 teaspoon olive oil
1 teaspoon minced shallots2 ripe tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and finely diced2 tablespoons dry white wineFreshly ground black pepper
SAUCE
3 ounces dry white wine2 tablespoons white wine vinegar1 tablespoon sliced shallots5 or 6 parsley stems1 teaspoon chopped fresh gingeroyster liquor reserved from shucking the oysters2 tablespoons heavy cream6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into small 
pieces, at room temperatureOYSTERS and SEA URCHINS
SHARING A SHELL
CONTINUED44 / James BeardTo make the sauce
1. Combine the wine, vinegar, shallots, parsley, chopped ginger, and reserved oyster liquor in 
a small saucepan over medium heat and simmer until reduced to about 2 tablespoons. Add 
the cream and bring to a rapid simmer to reduce the cream slightly.
2. Lower the heat to very low and whisk in the butter a piece at a time, making sure the pieces 
of butter are incorporated before adding more butter.
3. When all the butter is incorporated, immediately remove from the heat and add the lemon 
juice and Worcestershire sauce. Strain through a fine sieve, add the chives, lemon zest, and grated ginger and season with a few turns of pepper from the mill and a pinch of sea salt. Set 
aside and keep warm.
To serve
1. Preheat the broiler to high. Make a thin bed of coarse salt, seaweed, peppercorns, juli-
enned ginger, and thyme sprigs on each serving plate. 
2. Remove the oysters from the shells and set aside in a bowl. Sprinkle coarse salt on a rimmed 
baking sheet and set the oyster shells on top, making sure they sit stably. Divide the tomato 
concassé evenly among the shells, then return 1 oyster to each shell. Season each with one 
turn of a peppermill, and then broil a few inches from the heating element for 2 minutes. Remove from the broiler. Using a fork, turn over each oyster and continue broiling for  
1 minute more. Nestle 1 piece of sea urchin roe with the oyster in each shell and continue broiling for 1 minute, or until the sea urchin roe is just warmed through. 
3. Set three oysters on the salt bed on each plate. Nap with the sauce and sprinkle with chives. 
Serve immediately. 
 
SERVES 445 / Best of the BestTo make the hash potatoes
1. Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a rolling boil. Add the potatoes and boil for 30 to 
40 minutes until al dente, or slightly firm to the bite. Drain and let cool to room tempera-
ture. Remove the skins and cut the potatoes into 3/4-inch dice. 
2. In a large nonstick skillet or sauté pan over medium-high heat, warm the oil until shim-
mering, or just before smoking (365°F). Add the potatoes and sauté until golden. Season  
with salt and pepper, then drain the potatoes through a sieve to remove the excess oil.  
Set aside.
3. Preheat the oven to 350°F.CHICKEN
2 tablespoons olive oil
4 boneless skin-on chicken breasts,  
with first wing boneskosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
HERB jUS
3 garlic cloves, slightly crushed1 sprig fresh rosemary1 sprig fresh thyme2 tablespoons cream sherry1
1/2 cups dark poultry stock 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter1 tablespoon fresh lemon juicejIM’S CREAMED HASH POTATOES
2 large russet potatoes
1/4 cup blended olive oil
Salt Freshly ground black pepper2 tablespoons finely diced onion2 tablespoons salted butter1 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon chopped flat-leaf parsley 1 tablespoon chopped chives PAN-ROASTED CHICKEN BREAST with HERB jUSand jIM’S CREAMED HASH POTATOES
CONTINUED46 / James Beard
47 / Best of the BestTo cook the chicken
1. In a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat, warm the oil and swirl to evenly coat the pan. 
Season the chicken with salt and pepper on both sides.
2. When the oil is hot, pan-fry the chicken breasts, skin-side down for 3 to 4 minutes, or 
until the skin is brown. With a pair of tongs, move the breasts to loosen them from the pan.
3. Place the pan in the oven for 15 to 18 minutes, or until the chicken is just cooked through.
4. Remove the chicken breasts and let them rest on a cooling rack in a warm place.
To make the jus
1. Pour off the oil from chicken pan and add the garlic, rosemary, and thyme. Put the pan 
over medium-high heat. Add the sherry and stir to scrape up the browned bits from the bot-
tom of the pan. Add the stock. Reduce to 1/4 cup and remove from the heat. Whisk in the 
butter, lemon juice, and any drippings from the chickens as they rest. Drain the jus through a fine sieve and keep warm.
To finish the hash potatoes
1. Return the potatoes to the nonstick skillet over medium-high heat, and add the onion and 
butter. Continue to cook, stirring, for another 2 to 3 minutes.
2. Dissolve the cornstarch in the cream and add it to the potatoes. Bring them to a boil and 
simmer for another 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in the parsley and chives.
3. Spoon creamed hash browns in the center of each plate. Place a chicken breast on top. 
Pour the jus around the hash browns and serve immediately.
 
SERVES 448 / James Beard
49 / Best of the Best1993
A tRiBUtE to
jEAN-LOUIS  
PALLADIN
ChAPtER four
50 / James BeardOnly one of our James Beard Outstanding Chef Award winners 
is no longer with us. Jean-Louis Palladin died of lung cancer in 
2001 at the age of fifty-five. Jean-Louis arrived in Washington, 
D.C., in 1979 from Gascony, France, and was the youngest chef 
ever to receive two Michelin stars.
 He opened Jean-Louis at the Watergate, which became an 
immediate destination for serious food lovers all over the coun-
try. Palladin was also a magnet for French chefs looking to make the move to America to find freedom to cook creatively and realize their potential. Daniel Boulud and Eric Ripert, both Outstanding Chef Award winners, attribute their success, in part, to the advice and support they received from Palladin.   No one ever really quite knew what to expect when they were 
with Jean-Louis Palladin, except that there would be another splen-did adventure. Palladin’s unmistakable look made him a celebrity in a city filled with political stars. Oversized glasses sat above a thick moustache on a ruddy face topped with curly brown hair. Gleeful mischief and open-handed generosity characterized  
Palladin. He wrapped his wings around the young French chefs  
arriving in the United States. He led them on an exuberant ride, often on motorcycles, as they cooked, caroused, and learned the ins and outs of survival in a new country. “He was definitely a chef’s chef,” says Michel Richard.  
“Everybody has a story about how Jean-Louis called them up and said, ‘You gotta buy from this cheesemaker or they’ll go out of busi-ness.’ There’s a tremendous amount of continuous impact that he has had, whether it’s through the farmers or through the culture of today’s chefs—he was very much what made a lot of it happen.  
I see young chefs today and I think the successes are because of Jean-Louis’s influence.” In fact, Richard came to Washington, D.C., because Palladin  
made it an interesting place. Eric Ripert learned to rock when  
Palladin was rolling. A lonely Jean-Georges Vongerichten was intro-duced around by Palladin. The late Gilbert Le Coze came to visit. Ariane Daguin, a Gascony native, arrived in Washington as a young woman, then founded D’Artagnan, a purveyor of gourmet products, game, poultry, and foie gras. Palladin made her welcome as a fellow countryman should, including her in the social whirl. He organized game hunts, foraging expeditions, motorcycle 
road trips, hang gliding exploits, and skydiving picnics to blow off steam with other chefs. He famously parachuted while his former wife screamed, “Don’t do that, don’t do that!” He made it a point to pull local chefs together into a tight restaurant community, encour-aging people who were struggling for recognition. “To work in Palladin’s kitchen meant that you were at times 
the object of his passion and intensity,” remembers Jimmy Sneed, who worked for Palladin before opening his own restaurant, The Frog and the Redneck, in nearby Virginia. Sneed walked into  
Palladin’s kitchen looking for a job. Asked only if he spoke French, he answered “Oui, Chef,” and was working within minutes. The chef was not above raising his voice in the heat of pre-
paring a service. But Sneed says Palladin’s yelling wasn’t malicious. “It wasn’t from anger or meant to be demeaning. He yelled because what he was about to put on that plate was the most important thing in his world.” Palladin believed every bite was used to judge him.  51 / Best of the Best
52 / James Beard“The yelling and screaming came from the passion and intensity—the 
importance of getting it right at that moment,” according to Sneed. Palladin was unrelenting, believing that cooking required a 
dedication to be placed above everything else. His work ethic was legendary. He was not a television chef or one who split his time between his restaurant and other business ventures. For most of  
Palladin’s career in Washington, D.C., he rarely left the city. When he was in Washington, he could be found in his restaurant’s kitchen six nights a week. “You need to say to your wife, if you have a wife, ‘I’m sorry, but you will need to be second in my life,’” he said in 1997. “Being in the restaurant ten, twelve, fourteen hours a day—that’s your family.’” “He wanted everyone to appreciate using the freshest and 
the best items in their kitchens,” says Richard. “And he wanted to ensure that the people who provided those ingredients survived and flourished. “Jean-Louis once went up to Maine to search for wonderful 
fish,” remembers Sneed. “Rod Mitchell is a seafood purveyor now, but back then he was just a local fisherman. But that’s where scallops were shelled. You got divers to go down to the ocean floor and get scallops and Rod went into business doing that.”  John and Sukey Jamison personally delivered three lambs 
when Palladin wanted to sample them from their Jamison Farms in Latrobe, Pennsylvania. John remembers the first time they met: “In my high school French, I told the maître d’ that we had trois agneau 
for the chef. With a nod, a cook ran in to take the lambs. ‘Ah oui, 
Chef has been waiting for you; please come in.’ Sukey and I stayed back partly to be out of the line of fire should there be a problem. All I could see was the tall chef with the S.O.S. hair wildly waving his arms. I said to Sukey, ‘This is either very good or very bad.’ He  
motioned us to join him. His eyes were moist. Jean-Louis said,  
‘I am so happy to meet you. You have to excuse me because these lambs are so beautiful. They remind me of the ones I bought when I was an  
apprentice. These are a souvenir of my youth.’” The Jamisons  
became his friends, as well as longtime purveyors. Palladin’s devotion to quality ingredients was the result of his 
memories of eating in his native Gascony, where farmers and hunters  
provided food for his family’s meals. Condom, Palladin’s home town, is a tiny village in the Pyrenees next to Basque country. It is famous for foie gras, Armagnac, and abundant sunflower and laven-der fields. But Palladin considered himself an American chef with a French mind. When he was inducted into the tight-knit society of Maîtres 
Cuisinier de France, he celebrated accordingly. Inductees tradition-ally provide a feast for members and friends. In Palladin’s instance, there were eighty guests. He smuggled 400 illegal ortolans into the United States for the occasion (hidden from customs in a box of his daughter’s diapers). “It’s not illegal to hunt them for personal use, but they are 
forbidden to be sold,” explains Daguin. “Normally, a table of six close friends might enjoy the delicacy. To serve to eighty is astonishing.”  The traditional way to eat ortolans is to consume almost the 
entire bird with your head covered by a cloth. The headgear allows the diner to inhale all the roasted bird’s earthy, rich aroma. Palladin  
sneered at the idea that the covering of the diners’ heads was to hide their shame. “Shame? Mais non!” Palladin said in Stewart Lee  
Allen’s book, The Devil’s Garden: A Sinful History of Forbidden Food. Instead, 
he offered that it is done out of deference or reverence, as if bowing one’s head in prayer.  At a young age, Palladin’s parents began training his palate 
to appreciate the fresh foods that would become the hallmark of his cooking. Sneed, who continued to be a close friend, says that Jean-Louis’s early years were a driving influence. “He had such an inten-sity and such a memory. He could remember a dish that he ate or cooked twenty years before.” Palladin’s mother worked as a nurse during the week and 
cooked in a local restaurant on Sundays. Owner René Sandrini eventually offered Jean-Louis a job as well. Sandrini become not only a mentor, but also a treasured friend.53 / Best of the Best After attending hotel school and apprenticing in Paris and 
Monte Carlo, Palladin and Sandrini renovated a fourteenth-century 
monastery, opening La Table des Cordeliers there in 1968. The res-taurant, named after an order of monks, served more than three hundred dinners on the weekend, which was amazing in a small town. Palladin earned two Michelin stars by the age of twenty-eight, 
becoming the youngest chef in France to achieve that honor. Seek-ing a name-brand chef, owners of the Watergate Hotel lured him to Washington, D.C., in 1979, using the restaurant to attract well-heeled clientele into purchasing apartments in the complex. Palladin created dishes at the forty-two-seat restaurant that changed the face of dining in the nation’s capital. His insistence on using the fresh-est ingredients, no matter the cost in obtaining them, meant that throughout the restaurant’s life, profit was not the driving force  
behind the establishment. Shortly after Palladin arrived at the Watergate, a retired state 
department officer came to him with air-puffed plastic bags of misted,  
hand-raised baby herbs. According to the restaurant’s sous-chef,  
Palladin cast his eyes heavenward and said, “I believe that God sent you to me.” That contributor, too, became a purveyor for many years. Palladin published one book of his recipes, Jean-Louis: Cook-
ing with the Seasons. The recipes within were grouped into menus and divided by season. With lush photography by the acclaimed late Fred J. Maroon, it is an oversized art book and a celebration of the foods and ingredients that Palladin found in America. When Palladin was diagnosed with lung cancer in his early fif-
ties, colleagues and friends held a series of fundraisers to help with his mounting medical bills. It was a tribute to a man who had given so much to the profession that he loved. “If we don’t celebrate our heroes, nobody will,” commented 
Charlie Trotter at Palladin’s memorial service in 2001. Two hun-dred people gathered at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C., to honor the friend and mentor who, in this country, paired French technique and contemporary flair with the best and fresh-est American ingredients. Guests included renowned chefs from all over the country—and a handful from France, in addition to loyal patrons of the restaurant and purveyors. Many California chefs took the red-eye to Washington just to pay their respects. “When I was a young cook, I saved money to come here from 
New York, eat by myself, and stay at the Howard Johnson Hotel across the street,” says Thomas Keller of The French Laundry in California’s Napa Valley. 
“he LIved WhA t yOU Need t O hA ve t O be A CheF—the 
WOrK ethIC, the PASSION, the FOCUS. he Set SO mANy 
StANd Ard S FOr me. 
To have him first as a role model, then a colleague, and then a friend has got to be one of the greatest things that has happened to me in my life,” remembers Keller. “His was the first kitchen in America I stepped into,” says 
Daniel Boulud, who was the chef at the European Commission in Washington, D.C., in the early 1980s. “I had worked with people he admired in France, but here I was a private chef. When I decided to go to New York, he said, ‘If you need anything, let me know.’ He always supported me—when he heard the Westbury Hotel was looking for a chef for the Polo Lounge in late 1982, and later when I inter-viewed to go to Le Cirque, he was always behind me.” After his death, the Jean-Louis Palladin Foundation was created  
by his friends and colleagues to carry on his legacy. The foundation established a grant so that working chefs could learn more about his passion: sourcing and cooking with the finest and freshest ingredients available. Since 2009, the James Beard Foundation has administered the Jean-Louis Palladin Professional Work/Study Initiative.55 / Best of the Best
1994
dANIeL bOULUd
ChAPtER  five56 / James BeardA SIde tAbLe IN dANIeL bOULUd’S OFFICe disPlA ys  
PhotogrAPhs And memorAbiliA: shAQuille o’neAl ’s 
AutogrAPhed shoe, for eXAmPle. It’s a U.S. size 23—16 1/2 
inches by 6 inches. Hard to believe it fits a man’s foot. The space is  
organized as a study with comfortable banquettes, a dining area for 
four people, and a television. The chef’s office is called “the skybox,” 
since its two large windows overlook the kitchen arena below and the 
kitchen staff can look up. Many of the international crew are World 
Cup Soccer and Tour de France enthusiasts, so the television is  
especially important for team spirit at game time. 
 The morning after the James Beard Foundation honored 
Daniel as Outstanding Restaurant 2010, Boulud hung the coveted 
medallion from a rack in the kitchen that holds an array of silver 
cloches, so the crew could share the glory. “We work very much as a 
team,” he says. As Manhattan’s preeminent chef, Boulud’s shoes are 
as hard to fill as O’Neal’s giant sneakers, yet he nurtures his staff. 
In crisp double-breasted whites, de rigueur for the affable, well-
groomed gentleman-chef, Boulud is remarkably relaxed and at ease 
in pristine surroundings, which contribute to assuring his guests 
and employees that they’re experiencing the apex of culinary arts.
 The restaurant Daniel on Manhattan’s Upper East Side 
opened in 1993. The Dinex Group LLC was created in 1997 by 
Boulud and partners Joel Smilow and Lili Lynton, approximately 
four years after Daniel was opened. Together for almost two decades, 
they have a dozen establishments. Epicerie Boulud and Boulud 
Sud opened in the spring of 2011, offering different dining styles 
and price points. With other restaurants in Palm Beach, London,  
Singapore, Beijing, and most recently, Miami, the company  
takes a very hands-on approach and trains its teams to operate  
á la Boulud. Boulud is clearly the driving force, but he credits  
his cadre of operations directors, corporate chefs, wine director, fi-
nancial department, human resources, and communications staff 
with overseeing each restaurant and keeping very tight quality, ser-
vice, training, and cost control. In 2009, Boulud spent a substantial sum renovating Daniel. 
“What am I going to do? Own a château in France? So I put it back 
here,” he says of his profits. To keep his staff happy and motivated, he 
continues to invest in his restaurants. As for himself, Boulud is like 
the chairman of the board. “I’m everything. I’m the one who man-
ages nothing and yet sees everything because everyone on my team has  
responsibilities to manage. They are all a part of this success, and 
then from one restaurant, two restaurants, three restaurants . . . ”
 Boulud is always looking for new food inspirations and talent. 
“We keep evolving. I travel a lot. I’m opening up a restaurant in Sin-
gapore and we have a restaurant in Beijing. We have a restaurant in 
London. And all this is a product of having established a reputation 
for consistent quality and caring, and working with partners who 
want to bring my very particular style of French-American cooking 
to their locations. It’s a progression of new ideas reinterpreted for 
new places and a desire to grow as a team.”
 Boulud now envisions a trend of more casual, medium-
priced restaurants that offer value to the customer. That is the focus 
of DBGB Kitchen and Bar, the restaurant he opened on the Bowery 
in New York in 2010. It’s also the case for db Bistro Moderne, which 
Boulud has found to be a model that translates well to other cities. 
 “A lot of young chefs in America are taking that route,” he says. 
“Many of them learn in these fancy places but are opening up very 
casual places, and they’re very good cooks. I think it’s really good. It 
really shows that the culinary foundation in this country is very solid 
now. And a young cook can show that he or she can become a very, 
very good chef.”
 Although Boulud stands at the pinnacle of the industry with 
numerous restaurants, awards, and world-class cuisine in elegant 
surroundings, he still has a taste for food and people that are a little 
less grand. He seldom cooks at home, but when he does, he cooks 
a wide range of cusines. “I love Chinese cooking because it’s so 
quick. The vegetables are fresh and it’s so good. French cuisine isn’t  
always the perfect solution in every situation,” he admits. Boulud 57 / Best of the Besttakes great pleasure in cooking with his daughter Alix, recently grad-
uated from Tufts University, outside of Boston. 
 He also pays homage to the home cook: “Sometimes the best 
food I’ve eaten is from a home cook. They don’t depend on recipe  
books because they cook instinctively. They went to the market, 
bought some stuff, and they are cooking. And that’s what cooking is 
about, first and foremost. That’s why I’m always asking my cooks to 
make me something, to make me a salad, make me an omelet, and make me the best of anything that you think you can make without 
fancy ingredients. I don’t need caviar. I don’t need truffles . . . Make 
me something creative, well executed.”
 “I got here through street smarts,” Boulud acknowledges,  
although he is as sophisticated and urbane as an uptown banker. “I 
learned the hard way. I started at fourteen as an apprentice and kept 
going until I was seventeen and a half. I opted out of culinary school 
early on—it was too academic and not hands-on enough for me. 
Studying wasn’t my thing at the time. I wanted real experience, right 
in the kitchen. But I wish I had done it differently—had the edu-
cation first and then the apprenticeship.” He explains, “In today’s competitive world, I think it’s important to get a good education 
first and then nurture your talent.” 
 After being a finalist for best cooking apprentice in France, 
Boulud went on to train under such renowned chefs as Roger Vergé, 
Georges Blanc, and Michel Guérard. Following two years in Copen-
hagen, where Boulud worked as a chef at the Plaza Hotel, he moved 
to Washington, D.C., to work as a private chef for the European 
Commission.
 French restaurants in America in the early 1980s were old-
fashioned, Boulud believes. “That all changed with the late Jean-
Louis Palladin. He was the one who pushed to bring French cuisine in 
America up to date because it was very monochromatic in the sense 
that every restaurant was doing the same thing. With a few exceptions, there wasn’t much personality or creativity.”
 It was Palladin who later introduced him to the group that 
owned the Polo Lounge at the Westbury Hotel in Manhattan, where he moved to be the opening chef. He next went to Le Régence at the 
Hotel Plaza Athenée in New York, and then finally he was named 
executive chef at Le Cirque—a restaurant regularly chosen as one of 
the best in the country during his tenure from 1987 to 1993.
 When Boulud was at the Polo Lounge as executive sous-chef, 
he remembers a “talented and organized” young chef de partie 
there who admired what chefs were doing in France and was deter-
mined to be their equal. He was Thomas Keller, who also went on to  
become a James Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef in 1997.  
Boulud remembers, “Thomas was just a good chef. And in the team, 
not everyone is equal. But when you have somebody who is super good, 
you really notice. And he was the super good one. He wanted just 
to learn. The funny thing is that Elizabeth Marie Keller, Thomas’s  
mother, was working in the restaurant business as well. Thomas grew 
up helping out in the restaurant where his mother worked which, 
ironically, is the current location of Café Boulud in Palm Beach.”
 The fraternity of chefs has strong connections, with each 
generation leading the next. Alumni from Daniel Boulud’s kitchens 
who have gone on to succeed on their own also include Jonathan 
Benno, who was executive chef at Thomas Keller’s Per Se and is now 
the chef of Lincoln at Lincoln Center; Bill Telepan, chef-owner of 
Telepan; Michael Anthony at Gramercy Tavern; and David Chang of 
Momofuku. The list reads like a who’s who of extraordinary chefs.
 The inspiration for Boulud’s cuisine is rooted in his native 
France, which he combines with a contemporary, creative spin. “I 
would say that the hardware is French, but the software can be more 
local and more spontaneous and certainly a combination of flavors. 
Even if I use Asian ingredients, I always think French balance and sea-
soning. So what is French balance and seasoning? Nothing too spicy, 
too smoky, or too strong,” he declares. Other inspirations come 
from where he happens to be at a particular time. “I’ve always been 
inspired by where I am, the season, and what’s in the local market.” 
 Boulud’s cooking is technically complicated but the execu-
tion looks simple. “We have fun cooking, and I don’t want people to suffer through a painfully long night just so we can show them a 58 / James Beardsixteen-course meal. Rather, all the dishes, each set of courses, is 
right on the money. They’re focused.” 
 In addition to simply staying ahead in the international res-
taurant world, Boulud has kept his competitive edge by continuously 
upgrading and improving his restaurants. Every afternoon at Daniel, 
for example, there’s a class on some aspect of service. The wait staff 
takes part in a training session, followed by an exam. “We want them 
to have an opportunity to grow. It’s a good thing because it really 
motivates us to be better both from the employee and management 
perspective. Good service is service you’re barely aware of. And so we 
work very hard on that. And we apply the same standards to each of 
our restaurants, whether they are bistros or fine dining,” he notes. 
“We want our group to know what’s going on in the industry and in 
food media. We make them read the New York Times every Wednesday. 
Everybody has to read the food critics’ point of view to understand 
what’s important to our diners.”
 Boulud believes that service must be totally professional and 
unobtrusive, allowing the food to be the star, with a sense of caring for 
the comfort of people. “Because this all could be very pompous and 
intimidating,” he acknowledges. “My standard for service comes from 
Paris, where there is such precision but also warmth and friendliness 
in even the greatest restaurants. And it’s not every restaurant that can 
accomplish that. At Daniel we have a lot of regulars and, of course, 
the regulars attract our attention because we have a relationship with them. So they want to talk, they want to chat, they know the names  
of the waiters and busboys; they know who just had a baby, so they 
bring a gift. I mean, it’s more than the food—it’s a family. But the 
staff also knows new potential regulars walk in every day. After 9/11, I  
felt like I needed to worry not only about every one of my staff but 
about every one of my customers. And so we made some big changes in  
order to work harder at offering better service, taking care of people.”  
 Boulud’s gift is not only his talent as a chef but his active 
interest in his staff and his guests. As much as outstanding food is 
his focus, so are the people around him who, he would probably say, have helped make him a success. 60 / James Beard
61 / Best of the BestCRAB SALAD
11/2 tablespoons celery root brunoise  
8 ounces Maine Peekytoe crabmeat, picked over
2 tablespoons Granny Smith apple brunoise1
1/2 tablespoons mayonnaise
1 teaspoon New orleans Creole mustard1 teaspoon chopped fresh chives
1/2 teaspoon cider vinegar
1/2 teaspoon walnut oil
Salt Ground white pepper3 Granny Smith apples, cut into twelve 8-by-3-inch 
sheets with Chiba Peels t urning Slicer
1 lemon, juiced
1/4 cup crushed walnuts
APPLE SKIN CHIPS
1 Macintosh apple
Canola oil, for fryingAPPLE PICKLE COINS
2 Granny Smith apples, peeled, sliced 1/2-inch 
thick, and cut into 1-inch-diameter rounds1 cup rice vinegar2
1/2 tablespoons sugar
APPLE CIDER GELÉE
11/2 sheets gelatin
ice water1 cup apple cider1
1/2 teaspoons poppy seeds
GRANNY SMITH APPLE CONFIT
2 Granny Smith apples, julienned into  
twelve 2-by-1/2-inch batons
1/2 cup walnut oil
1 teaspoon celery salt
CELERY ROOT PURÉE
1/2 large celery root, cut in 1-inch dice
1 cup milkSalt Ground white pepperMAINE PEEKYTOE CRAB SALAD with
CELERY, WALNUT OIL, AND GRANNY SMITH APPLE
CONTINUEDTo make the apple pickle coins
1. Put the rounds into a shallow heatproof container. In a small saucepan over medium heat, 
bring the vinegar and sugar to a simmer. Pour over the apples. Cover and refrigerate over-
night or up to 3 days. Strain before plating.
To make the apple cider gelée
1. Soak the gelatin sheets in a bowl of ice water for 20 minutes. Squeeze dry.62 / James Beard2. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, warm the cider to just below a simmer. Add the 
poppy seeds and gelatin, stirring to dissolve the gelatin. Pour into an uncovered 6-inch square 
dish. Refrigerate. When set, slice the gelée into twelve 1/2-by- 1/2-inch cubes. Reserve, chilled.
To make the apple confit
1. In a small saucepan over medium heat, combine the apples, oil, and salt and bring to just 
below a simmer. Cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the apples are tender, about  
15 minutes. Refrigerate.
To make the celery root purée
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the celery root and milk. Add enough 
water to cover. Season with salt and pepper and bring to a simmer. Cook until tender. In a 
blender or food processor, purée the celery root with enough of the cooking liquid to make 
a smooth, thick purée. Refrigerate and adjust the seasonings before plating.
To make the crab salad
1. In a small pot, bring water to a boil. Add the celery root brunoise and cook until tender, 
about 1 minute. Drain and let cool. 
2. In a medium bowl, combine the crabmeat, apple, celery root, mayonnaise, mustard, chives, 
vinegar, and walnut oil. Season with salt and pepper. 
3. Place the apple sheets on a flat surface and brush them lightly with the lemon juice. Divide 
the crab salad evenly among the 12 sheets, mounding it on the ends closest to you. Tightly roll the sheet away from you to encase the crab salad. Coat the exposed crab at the open ends with 
some of the crushed walnuts. Repeat with the remaining ingredients. Refrigerate and reserve for no more than 1 hour. 
To make the apple chips
1. Using a sharp peeler, remove thin 1-inch-wide strips of apple skin. Use the back of a paring 
knife to scrape away any excess flesh. Fill a medium saucepan one-third full with oil and bring 
it to 275°F on a deep-fat thermometer. Put the skins into the saucepan and fry until crisp, 
about 4 minutes. Transfer to a paper towel–lined plate to drain. Reserve in a dry container at room temperature. 
2. To plate, place three rolls of crab salad on each chilled salad plate. Garnish each plate with 
dots of celery root purée, three pieces of apple cider gelée, three pieces of apple confît, and 
a few apple pickle coins.
 
SERVES 463 / Best of the BestSEARED FENNEL
3 fennel bulbs, halved
2 sprigs fresh thyme2 tablespoons lemon oilPinch espelette pepper (see Note)Pinch fennel pollenice waterolive oil
FENNEL PURÉE
1 pound spinach leavesice water1 tablespoon olive oil, plus extra for purée1 fennel bulb, sliced thinReserved fennel scraps from sous vide fennel
1/4 cup chicken stock
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream
1/2 bunch fresh dill, leaves picked
 
LAMB LOIN
2 lamb loins (about 1 pound each), trimmedolive oil2 garlic cloves, crushed2 sprigs fresh thyme2 tablespoons butter 
Reserved t reviso radicchio leaves  
from t reviso Marmalade
oregano oil
Baby fennel, shaved
Lamb jus infused with oreganoTREVISO MARMALADE
3 heads t reviso radicchio
ice water
2 tablespoons olive oil1 small Spanish onion, cut into brunoise
1/3 cup brunoise of red beets (about 2 ounces)
2 tablespoons red wine vinegarSalt Ground white pepper1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
OLIVE AND LEMON TAPENADE
1/4 cup diced Sicilian olives
1/4 cup diced salt-cured Meyer lemon skin
1 teaspoon cracked black pepperolive oil
POLENTA
31/2 cups chicken stock
1 cup polenta
3/4 cup heavy cream
2 large eggs1 large egg yolkFennel pollen
POLENTA TUILES
171/2 ounces reserved cooked polenta 
1 large egg yolk1
1/2 teaspoons mascarpone cheese
Pinch fennel pollenROASTED LAMB LOIN with TREVISO MARMALADE, SEARED   
FENNEL, POLENTA TUILES, and SICILIAN OLIVE TAPENADE
CONTINUED64 / James BeardTo make the Treviso marmalade
1. Separate the Treviso leaves and reserve the 2-inch tips of 12 nice leaves in ice water for 
garnish. Rinse the remaining leaves well, dry, and chop finely. Heat the oil in a large  
casserole over medium-high heat. Add the onion and sauté until golden brown. Add the 
beets and sauté until tender. Add the Treviso and red wine vinegar and season with salt and pepper. Simmer until the moisture has almost evaporated, about 20 minutes. Add the  
balsamic vinegar and simmer to a glazed consistency. Adjust the seasoning. Keep warm.
To make the olive and lemon tapenade
1. In a small bowl, combine the olives, lemon skin, and pepper. Add a drizzle of olive oil and 
toss to loosely coat. Chill and reserve.
To make the polenta
1. Preheat the oven to 225°F. In a large saucepan, bring the stock to a boil. Stirring con-
stantly, steadily add the polenta. Reduce the heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until 
all the stock is absorbed. Season with salt. Weigh out 17 1/2 ounces of the cooked polenta for 
the tuiles and reserve. In a blender, combine the cream, eggs, yolk, and season with fennel pollen, salt, and pepper. Add the remaining polenta and purée until well combined. Adjust  
the seasoning.
2. Line a 9-inch square baking pan with buttered parchment paper. Add the polenta purée and 
bake until set, approximately 1 1/2 hours. Refrigerate. When cold, cut into 1-by- 1/2-inch logs.
To make the polenta tuiles
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F. In a small bowl, combine the reserved polenta, yolk, mascar-
pone, and fennel pollen. Season with salt and pepper. Line a baking sheet with a silicone baking mat. Using a 3-by-1-inch template and an offset spatula, spread the mixture onto the 
template to make thin rectangles. Repeat until the baking sheet is full. Bake for 12 minutes. Let cool.
To make the seared fennel
1. Sous vide the fennel, thyme, lemon oil, and espelette pepper and pollen by cooking in a 
water bath with an immersion circulator set at 194°F. Cook until the fennel is tender, 1 1/2 to 
2 hours. (Alternative method: Combine the fennel, thyme, lemon oil, espelette, and fennel 
pollen in a nonreactive saucepan. Cover with water and bring to boil. Simmer uncovered 
until the fennel is tender when pierced, 15 to 20 minutes.)65 / Best of the Best2. Chill in ice water. Slice the fennel into 12 wedges. Reserve the scraps. When ready to serve, 
season the wedges with salt, pepper, and pollen. In a medium sauté pan, warm olive oil and 
sear the slices until browned on both sides.
To make the fennel purée
1. Bring a medium pot of salted water to a boil. Boil the spinach leaves until tender, plunging 
them immediately into ice water. Squeeze dry and reserve the bowl of ice water.
2. In a 12-inch sauté pan over medium heat, warm the oil. Add the sliced fennel, season with 
salt and pepper, and stir until tender. Add the fennel scraps and toss to combine. Add the stock and cream. Simmer on low heat until reduced to by half. 
3. Transfer the fennel to a blender. Add the spinach and dill. Blend to make a smooth, thick 
purée. Stream in a few tablespoons of olive oil to emulsify. Using a spatula, press the purée 
through a fine sieve over a medium bowl. Place the bowl of purée over the bowl of ice water to 
chill quickly. Once cold, transfer it to a squeeze bottle. Reheat when ready to serve.
To make the lamb
1. Bring the lamb to room temperature and season on all sides with salt and pepper. In a  
12-inch sauté pan, heat a thin layer of oil over medium-high heat. Add the lamb and sear on all sides until browned. Reduce the heat to medium; add the garlic, thyme, and butter, basting  
until medium-rare (about 140°F on a meat thermometer). Remove from the pan and let rest 
for 8 minutes. Portion the lamb into 6 servings.
To serve
1. Heat six dinner plates. For each serving, place 2 spoonfuls of Treviso marmalade on one 
side of the plate and arrange a serving of lamb loin on top. Top the lamb loin with a spoonful 
of olive tapenade and garnish with two leaves of fresh Treviso. Place two polenta tuiles on each 
side of the loin. Squeeze five dots of fennel purée in a line through the center of the plate. Squeeze small drops of oregano oil in the center of the fennel purée. On the other side of the 
plate, line three polenta logs in a line. Place two pieces of seared fennel between the polenta. 
Garnish the top with shaved fennel. At the table, pour over lamb jus infused with oregano.
NOTE:  Espelette pepper is a pepper from the small Basque town of Espelette on the border 
between France and Spain. It is a staple of Basque cuisine. Because it only rates a 4000 on 
the Scoville scale, it is classified as “not hot.”
 
SERVES 667 / Best of the Best
1995
rICK bA yLeSS
ChAPtER  six68 / James BeardAS A bOy OF FOUrteeN vACA tioning in meXiC o With his 
fAmily in the 1970s, riCK bAyless WA s CAPtiv Ated With  
the everyd Ay street food . “the first thing thA t Won 
my heArt WA s the vitAlity And life And the Pulse,” he 
remembers.  “People walking around the park, vendors selling 
street foods, roaming bands playing music, and bundles of balloons. 
The second thing that captured me was going into a fabulously old 
restaurant. I’m a kid used to Tex-Mex food. There was none of it on 
the menu—not one thing I recognized.” But a plate of enchiladas, 
covered with a brown sauce, made an indelible impression on the 
young Bayless. “I’ll never forget that first taste. That one bite. Mole 
poblano. I thought, ‘This is the food of the gods.’” 
 The experience was the beginning of Bayless’s lifelong love 
affair with Mexico and its food, resulting in his emergence as Amer-
ica’s foremost cook and ambassador of that country’s authentic  
regional cuisine. He’s built a culinary mountain on mole, a multi-
ingredient sauce of such complexity and diversity that it’s taken him 
from Mexico’s home kitchens to the White House. 
 Bayless was raised in Oklahoma. The state’s proximity to the 
border made Mexico a quick escape whenever he had time during  
his Spanish and Latin American studies in college. In 1978, he  
auditioned and won a spot to host a public television program about 
Mexican cooking, and was sent on two trips to Mexico for research. 
As he learned more and more about Mexican cooking, he also took 
to television—he was a natural, prepped by regular appearances on 
his mother’s local morning TV show and by participation in theater 
groups as a youngster. 
 Bayless’s feel for Mexican food evolved, along with his  
appreciation for the country, its customs, and its people. “I like earthy 
cultures and gutsiness. The vitality in Mexico is like nowhere else,” he enthuses. But most of all, he remained fascinated by the unheralded 
street food, the bold, spirited fare he could most often afford.
 In 1981, Bayless and his wife Deann were immersed in a study 
of Mexico’s cuisine and culture. When they met, he was aiming for a 
doctorate in linguistics following undergraduate and graduate work in Spanish and Latin American studies. She was on a similar aca-
demic path, acquiring masters’ degrees in English and theater, and 
writing computer manuals. They packed everything into storage and 
began crisscrossing Mexico by highway and rail. Grabbing and paying 
for tacos through the window of a slowing but never-stopping train 
was fast food. The conditions of the roads and buses—and sometimes 
the driver—were dangerous, and Bayless credits their safe journeys to 
saints perched on rearview mirrors watching over them. 
 The Baylesses observed and documented traditional Mexican 
cooks with the thoroughness of anthropologists. Bayless was amazed 
at how passionate Mexicans were about their food. The couple  
planned to stay a year, but overall spent almost eight years there,  
doing occasional consulting for a small chain of Mexican restaurants 
in Los Angeles to feed their travel habit. 
 Bayless remembers, “We spent time in the different market-
places throughout Mexico. We were welcomed, and even the shy cooks 
shared their recipes. It was surprising to discover that what was being 
cooked in homes in Mexico was quite different from what was cooked 
in America and called Mexican food.” Without being intrusive,  
Bayless perfected a technique for gaining insight into the Mexi-
can food culture. He never asked for recipes. He asked questions.  
Ultimately, the cooks and vendors would be engaged in conversations 
that revealed what he needed to know. If he needed more specifics, 
he’d return. But he never wrote anything in front of them, commit-
ting the conversations to memory and later writing down the content.
 The Bayless’s exploration of the relationships between Mexico  
and its indigenous foods became the groundwork for a restaurant 
they dreamed of opening in the United States. At the same time, they 
went from scholarship to authorship with the publication of their  
first book, Authentic Mexican: Regional Cooking from the Heart of Mexico.  
That was when Bayless called his doctoral advisor and explained 
that the dissertation had evolved into a book, and the Ph.D. went  
by the wayside.
 That first book was published the same day in 1987 that the 
couple opened Frontera Grill in Chicago. From the beginning, the 69 / Best of the Bestresponse to both was overwhelmingly favorable. Bayless was in the 
kitchen the day the restaurant opened and still is today. Deann con-
tinues to control the front of the house operations. 
 In Chicago, Bayless presents the authentic flavors of Mexico 
and amplifies that cuisine’s image in his trio of restaurants. Sharing 
an entrance to the contemporary Frontera Grill is Topolobampo, 
one of the few Mexican fine-dining establishments in America. Next 
door, on the casual side is Xoco, featuring great street food. He’s 
also opened some Frontera Fresco quick-serve operations in the 
Macy’s department store in San Francisco and Chicago, and a res-
taurant called Red O in Los Angeles. 
 The couple became experts in Mexican regional folk-art tra-
ditions and they continue to build an art collection as a signature of 
their restaurants. The exuberance of bold, colorful artwork mirrors the excitement from the kitchen to the dining rooms.
 Bayless has almost singlehandedly changed how America 
views and cooks Mexican food. He balances a packed schedule as 
chef, restaurateur, author, media personality, philanthropist, con-
sultant, and public speaker. A superb communicator, he taps into 
modern technology’s social networks, maintaining an active Twitter  
feed about cooking and his travels—and it really is Bayless doing 
the tweeting. An example: “I am the luckiest man in the world. At  
the stunning Posada Tepozteco cooking dinner with amazingly tal-
ented chefs!” (5:17 PM Jul 6). His twittering is yet another avenue to 
teach people about food. His greatest outreach, though, is through 
his public television series, Mexico—One Plate at a Time, now in its  
seventh season.
 Bayless is also a pioneer in the restaurant business who has 
taken environmental initiatives ranging from biodegradable takeout 
packaging, to composting food waste, to buying locally produced 
foods from Midwestern farmers. 
 Helping family farms stay afloat is Bayless’s rallying cause. He 
decided to connect with local farms for a better variety of products 
long ago. “It just makes my life more interesting,” he says. “As a chef, 
I wasn’t really interested as much in organics as I was in local and seasonal, but the more I worked with local farmers, the more they 
taught me about sustainability and what it meant to grow something 
organically.” The Bayless family and restaurant staff created the  
Frontera Farmer Foundation, seeking to protect Midwestern farm-
land from development and help small farmers stay competitive 
with large factory farms. These small producers are a lifeline for the 
kind of unusual ingredients and quality that Bayless prizes. When  
Bayless won Top Chef Masters 2009, where world-renowned chefs com-
peted for $100,000 to be given to the charity of choice, his prize 
went to the Frontera Farmer Foundation. More than $500,000 has 
been granted to farmers since 2003. 
 Bayless is also a huge proponent of urban agriculture. He took 
a particularly unique step on the flat roof of his complex of restau-
rants. Despite the cold Chicago winters, tomatoes, chiles, and other ingredients are grown there and sent straight down to the kitchen. 
“Rooftop salsa” appears on the menu. “I was always thinking that we 
have this flat roof above the restaurants we could use for something 
beneficial,” he notes.
 Resourceful, observant, and mindful of the environment, 
Bayless took an idea and expanded it. Not only does the garden pro-
vide the restaurant with fresh ingredients, but it also makes a state-
ment about energy conservation and recycling. The green roof is a natural insulator and kitchen scraps become compost for the garden. 
Behind the Bayless home, greens, edible flowers, and herbs also are 
grown in a 1,000-square-foot plot for the restaurants. Even base-
ment space is used: They grow microgreens under fluorescent lights 
for winter salads. 
 Bayless’s culinary background is also home grown. The Okla-
homa City native is the fourth generation of a family of restaurateurs 
and grocers specializing in local barbecue. His parents gave him a copy 
of Julia Child’s Mastering the Art of French Cooking when other kids were  
receiving GI Joe gear. Julia Child fascinated him. He knew exactly 
what time her show aired and he absorbed every minute of it. “I’d cook 
recipes like napoleons and puff pastry and try the recipes out on the 
family maybe three or four times a year. They would suffer through 70 / James Beardthem,” he recalls. Eventually, he cooked his way through volumes  
I and II. 
 Many years later, Bayless was delighted by an invitation from 
his heroine and appeared on In Julia’s Kitchen with Master Chefs television 
show. Bayless showcased a recipe for chile-glazed country ribs. He 
remembers, “I was scared to death,” but she was her usual good-
natured, engaging self, and put him completely at ease. He does a 
great impression of her enthusiastic trill.
 More than twenty years after opening Frontera Grill, Bayless’s 
affinity and talent for Mexican cooking is uncontested. He credits 
Americans’ changing views about food and their embrace of all kinds 
of cultures for the nonstop success of his restaurants. His kitchens 
uplift the native Mexican cooking by avoiding the heavy-handed cli-
chés, instead demonstrating the nuances inherent in Mexico’s many 
regional cuisines.
 Frontera Grill and Topolobampo both have received numer-
ous awards and accolades, with Frontera honored as Outstanding  
Restaurant in America and Topolobampo twice nominated as Out-
standing Restaurant in America by the James Beard Foundation.  
Altogether, Bayless has been earned eight different James Beard 
Foundation honors.
 He closes the restaurants every summer for the Fourth of July 
holiday, taking his longtime crew on a field trip to Mexico. Thirty-
five people made the trip in 2010. The group continues to learn and 
refine the details of Mexican regional cooking in its broad spectrum 
of tastes and flavors. “It keeps us fresh, we love the challenge, and it 
keeps getting better,” he says of the crew. Many of his colleagues have 
been with him for the restaurant’s twenty-three years in business. 
It’s their personal fiesta time.
  “We need to break the rhythms of our everyday lives, to plan 
and anticipate all the potential that a fiesta embraces. We need to 
experience those moments when time stands still—moments reached 
through the conduit of great food and drink,” Bayless states. That is 
just how the Bayless family entertains at home on the weekends. Like her father, the Bayless’s daughter, Lanie, grew up in res-
taurants. She pitched in, greeting guests and pouring water, then as a teenager co-authored Rick and Lanie’s Excellent Kitchen Adventures in 2006. 
The book combines the kitchen savvy and culinary escapades of a  
father and teenage daughter, traveling worldwide, meeting chefs, 
discovering markets, and experiencing exotic foods. Lanie is now 
majoring in theater at NYU, which seems natural to her parents, who 
believe that “the restaurant business is theater and good training.”
 In his best-selling cookbooks, Bayless takes complicated  
recipes and makes them user friendly. Notes on ingredients and 
techniques are carefully woven throughout and written with the same 
intensity that he puts into his restaurants. 
“I teNd t O hA ve A LOt OF FOCUS, A LOt OF PASSION, WheN  
I’m dOING SOmethING,” he SAyS. “USUALL y I WOrK ON 
ONe thING t O the ex CLUSION OF everythING eLSe UNtIL   
I’m dONe.” 
The couple’s sixth book, Fiesta at Rick’s: Fabulous Food, Luscious Libations, 
Great Times with Friends, was published in 2010.
 Bayless is not enamored of his celebrity status, and he knows 
that with it comes a social responsibility. He says, “I see that I have 
a role to play in our society and I can use it for good. So I take the 
stage that has been offered to me because it presents the opportunity 
to say things that a lot of people can hear. I want to use it to say that 
we can help improve the quality of our own lives and make this world 
a better place to live.” 
72 / James Beard
73 / Best of the BestCEVICHE
1/4 cup fresh lime juice, plus more if needed
11/2 pounds sashimi-quality skinless, boneless fish 
fillets, such as Alaskan halibut, ahi tuna, or aqua-
cultured k ona k ampachi, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
7 ounces small pickling cucumbers or Persian (baby) cucumbers, cut into 
1/2-inch cubes 
Salt, if needed
2 ripe large avocados, pitted, flesh scooped from 
skin and cut into cubes
Lettuce leaves, preferably butter lettuce,  
for garnishHERB SEASONING
1/2 head garlic, cloves broken apart
2 or 3 fresh serrano chiles1 medium bunch cilantro, thick bottom stems  
cut off (1 cup packed)1 small bunch flat-leaf parsley, thick bottom stems 
cut off (1 cup packed)
1/2 cup olive oil
SaltGREEN HERB CEVICHE with CUCUMBER  Ceviche Verde con Pepino
To make the herb seasoning
1. Set a dry skillet over medium heat. Lay in the unpeeled garlic cloves and chiles. Roast, 
turning frequently, until they are soft and blotchy brown in spots, about 10 minutes for the 
chiles and 15 minutes for the garlic. Cool until easy to handle, and then slip the skins off 
the garlic, pull the stems off the chiles, and roughly chop (no need to remove the seeds). Put them in a food processor along with the cilantro, parsley, oil, and 2 generous teaspoons salt. 
Process until nearly smooth (it will be pasty). Scrape the mixture into a storage container and 
refrigerate until serving time.
To make the ceviche
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the lime juice and 1/2 cup of the herb seasoning. (Cover and 
refrigerate the remainder for another preparation.) Add the fish and cucumber, and stir to 
combine. To blend the flavors, cover and refrigerate for 1/2 hour (for best results, no more 
than 1 hour). Taste and season with a little more lime juice or salt if needed, then gently stir in the avocado (save a little for garnish if you want). Serve on plates or in martini glasses lined 
with lettuce leaves. 
 
SERVES 6 TO 8 AS A STARTER74 / James Beard31/2 cups chicken broth, plus more if needed
1/2 cup fruity red wine
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
2 bay leavesSaltSugar
QUAIL
12 partially-boned quail, at least 4 ounces eachVegetable or olive oilFreshly ground black pepper 
Chopped dry-roasted peanuts, for garnish
Sprigs of fresh flat-leaf parsley, for garnishPEANUT MOLE
2 medium (about 1 ounce total) dried ancho 
chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 tablespoons vegetable or olive oil
1/2 small white onion, sliced
2 garlic cloves, peeled8 ounces ripe tomatoes 1 cup dry-roasted peanuts2 slices firm white bread  
(or 
1/2 dry Mexican bolillo roll), torn into pieces
2 canned chipotle chiles in adobo sauce, seeded
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon, preferably freshly ground 
Mexican canela
1/8 teaspoon allspice, preferably freshly ground SMOKY PEANUT MOLE with GRILLED QUAIL   
Cordonices Asadas en Mole de Cacahuate
To make the peanut mole
1. Tear the ancho chiles into flat pieces, then toast a few at a time on an ungreased griddle or 
skillet over medium heat. Press the pieces flat with a metal spatula for a few seconds, until 
they crackle and change color slightly, then flip and press again. (If they give off more than 
the slightest wisp of smoke, they are burning and will add a bitter element to the sauce.) In a small bowl, cover the chiles with hot water and let them rehydrate for 30 minutes, stirring 
occasionally to ensure even soaking. Drain and discard the water.
2. Meanwhile, preheat the broiler. Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a heavy, 4-quart Dutch 
oven over medium heat. Add the onion and garlic, and fry, stirring regularly, until well browned, about 10 minutes. Scrape them into a blender jar. Set the pot aside.
3. Roast the tomatoes on a baking sheet 4 inches below the very hot broiler until blackened, 
about 5 minutes, then flip them and roast the other side; cool, then peel, collecting all the juice with the tomatoes. Add the tomatoes to the blender, along with the peanuts, bread, 
chipotles, drained anchos, cinnamon, and allspice. Add 1
1/2 cups of the broth and blend  
until smooth, stirring and scraping down the sides of the blender jar, and adding a little more 75 / Best of the Bestliquid if needed to keep everything moving through the blades. Press the mixture through a 
medium-mesh strainer into a bowl. 
4. Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil in the pot over medium-high heat. When hot enough 
to make a drop of the purée sizzle sharply, add all the purée at once. Stir as the nutty- 
smelling, ruddy-red mixture thickens and darkens for about 5 minutes, then stir in the  
remaining 2 cups broth, the wine, vinegar, and bay leaves. Partially cover and gently simmer 
over medium-low heat for roughly 45 minutes, stirring regularly for the flavors to harmo-
nize. If necessary, thin the sauce with a little more broth to keep it the consistency of a cream 
soup. Taste and season with salt, usually about 1 1/2 teaspoons, and about 1 tablespoon sugar. 
Cover and keep warm.
To make the quail
1. Thirty to 45 minutes before serving, light a gas grill or prepare a charcoal fire and let the 
coals burn until they are covered with gray ash and medium-hot. Position the grill grate 
about 8 inches above the coals and lightly oil it. 
2. While the grill heats, lay the quail on a baking sheet. Tie the legs together with kitchen 
twine, then brush both sides with oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 
3. Lay the quail on the hottest portion of the grill, breast-side down. Cover the grill and cook 
about 8 minutes, checking once or twice to ensure that they are not browning too quickly. Flip the quail and move to a cooler portion of the grill (quail finished over a cooler fire 
always seems juicier). Cover and continue grilling until the leg meat will separate from the bone quite easily when you squeeze a leg between two fingers, 4 to 6 minutes more. 
4. Remove to a plate and keep warm in a low oven while you set up your plates. Ladle a gen-
erous 1/3 cup of the mole onto each of six warm dinner plates. Set 2 quail over the sauce on 
each plate. Garnish with chopped peanuts and sprigs of parsley.
NOTE:  The mole may be made up to 5 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. If oil separates from 
the sauce when reheated, either skim it off or blend the sauce in a loosely covered blender. 
The quail are best cooked just before serving.
 
SERVES 677 / Best of the Best
1996
JeremIAh t OWer
ChAPtER  seven78 / James Beardthere COULd hArdL y hAve beeN A less liKely or less  
QuAlified APPliCAnt thAn JeremiAh toWer, Who Pre-
sented himself one dAy At CheZ PAnisse in berKeley , 
CAliforniA, to APPly for the Chef ’s Job. He had a gran-
diose attitude and a Harvard master’s degree in architecture, but no 
formal kitchen training.
 Tower, born in Stamford, Connecticut, grew up traveling the 
world with his family. His father was director of an international 
sound equipment company. It wasn’t an average childhood, and on 
one night at a rare family dinner at a London hotel, his parents 
glanced across the table at young Jeremiah and realized they’d for-
gotten to enroll him in school. He was eight at the time. After that 
tiny oversight, Tower’s grandfather assumed responsibility for his 
education, seeing that he attended boarding schools in England, 
France, Australia, and the United States. Tower spent a lot of his 
childhood in posh hotels, on luxury ocean liners, and—perhaps 
most importantly—in the world’s most celebrated restaurants, where 
he learned, as he says, “how things should taste. I have the advantage 
of an excellent flavor memory.” 
 Those well-trained taste buds, paired with an appetite for  
adventure, earned him credit for helping to ignite the California 
culinary revolution of the 1970s. 
 In boarding school and college, Tower taught himself to 
cook, his mother and aunt having shown him the basics. Tower cites 
his earliest food memory as grilling a fresh-caught barracuda on a 
beach near the Great Barrier Reef in Australia with his aborigine 
pal. While in college and graduate school, he cooked his way though 
Escoffier’s Ma Cuisine, making elaborate dinners for friends. Not  
until his grandfather died, when Jeremiah realized he needed to 
work, did he consider becoming a professional chef. 
 “I enjoyed cooking and, not being good at anything else 
except gardening, working at a restaurant made sense,” he recalls. 
When he heard that James Beard was going to give classes in San Fran- 
cisco at the Stanford Court Hotel, Tower, who was living in San 
Francisco, wrote to Beard and asked to attend the class.  “Arriving in my best togs—always Armani black label, Turn-
bull & Asser shirts, Charvet accessories—I was sufficiently a sight 
for him to pay immediate attention when I introduced myself,” he 
says. “Since Beard never forgot a name, he remembered my letter.” 
Two famous cookbook authors were also there, Barbara Kafka and  
Marion Cunningham. “Barbara was very sweet to me, but Marion 
was fiercely protective of Beard,” Tower remembers.
 After meeting Beard, Tower invited him to dinner at his 
home. He recounts, “I served sea urchin roe soufflé, each person 
getting a whole green urchin that I had cleaned out and used as a 
soufflé dish. He was overwhelmed. Those soufflés started a lifelong 
friendship.” 
 “In 1972, I spent my last few dollars on a ride from San Fran-
cisco to Berkeley to answer an ad for a chef,” Tower says. “I was told 
to return at a later time than scheduled; so, broke, I insisted right then on the interview. Alice [Waters] asked me to straighten out some 
soup—I think I added salt or cream—and she hired me on the spot. She 
must have been desperate, too.” Tower’s new job began a partnership 
of lusty affection and even lustier squabbling. Berkeley in the early 
1970s was a hotbed of free love, lofty ideals, and political posturing, 
and Chez Panisse was a revolving door of characters. The guests held 
court every evening, and the staff weighed in with their own opinions. 
Tower, who had taken to making sweeping pronouncements when 
he’d enter the dining room, usually with a champagne glass in his hand, fit right in. Meanwhile in the kitchen, he kept Italian opera 
blasting—Puccini, Bellini, Rossini, and Verdi. The music was a fitting 
accompaniment to the daily drama of Chez Panisse.
 Tower, who was still searching for his identity as a chef, 
brought focus and consistency to the menu by reviving recipes of  
the French masters like Escoffier and Fernand Point. After only  
a year as the restaurant’s first chef, Tower was made a partner in  
the operation. 
 “At Chez Panisse, we got by on what we had available. Some-
times a friend would stop at the back door with a basket of toma-toes and trade it for a meal,” Tower says. This practice spurred him 79 / Best of the Bestto approach farmers and purveyors to supply fresh products, and 
that was his breakthrough. The daily changing menu, while French 
in style, began to emphasize locally grown, seasonal ingredients.  
Tower became a pivotal personality in the harmonic convergence 
that brought American restaurants and farmers together.
 It was while Tower was there that Chez Panisse earned its  
national and international acclaim. In October 1975, Gourmet maga-
zine reviewed the restaurant, praising Tower for “joyously exploring 
la vraie cuisine française, in all its vigor, freshness, and variety.” 
 Eventually, though, Tower decided he had exhausted all 
the regions in France, and all the French cookbook authors whose  
recipes interested him. On October 7, 1976, he served a “Northern 
California Regional Dinner.” The menu listed the farmers, ranchers,  
and fishmongers of the Bay Area whose products appeared on the 
menu: Spenger’s Tomales Blue Point Oysters, Big Sur Garrapata 
Creek Smoked Trout, Monterey Bay Prawns, and Preserved California  
Geese from Sebastopol.
 “We brought these live trout up from Garrapata Trout Farm 
in Big Sur in tanks, and had bathtubs and pails all over the kitchen  
with compressors putting air into the water,” Tower says. “Every 
time there was an order, I’d grab a trout and kill it and shove it into the court bouillon, but the first trout slipped out of my fingers and 
went flopping across the floor just as a waiter was coming into the 
kitchen. It flopped out into the dining room and ended up on some 
dowager’s ankles, then there were shrieks all over the restaurant, and 
that really made the evening. Everyone came piling into the kitchen to see what we were doing. That’s when I knew that theater was at least 
half the story.”
 Tower went to great lengths to get the choicest ingredients, 
striking deals with local California farmers. In an interview, one of 
Tower’s early sous-chefs, Willy Bishop, recalls, “Generally it worked, 
and it worked because this guy, Jeremiah, was so manic and insane. 
If he was gonna make bouillabaisse, he’d go to Chinatown and come 
back with, like, a six-foot conger eel. ‘Look what I got in Chinatown!’ 
I was like, ‘What the hell is it?’” As Tower remembers, “At a butcher’s place, I’d get shoulder 
deep into drums filled with calves’ livers and just stand there with a 
pail, grabbing the livers as they went by. I wanted the blond ones, so I 
had to roll up my sleeves and dig in there in order to find them. The 
blond livers are milder, you see, closer to foie gras. The people who 
worked there thought I was crazy, and of course I was.”
 In 1978, Tower sold his shares and left Chez Panisse, passing 
the job to his sous-chef, Jean-Pierre Moullé. After teaching cooking 
classes and working at other restaurants in California, Tower opened 
Stars in San Francisco. Attracted by the handsome chef, his cuisine, 
and his bad-boy panache, celebrities and socialites packed the res-
taurant nightly, making it one of the hippest spots in San Francisco. 
Often seen roaring through the city on a fire engine–red motor-
cycle, Tower would take breaks from Stars at Zuni Café, his local  
hang-out, where a glass of champagne would be waiting on the bar as 
soon as the staff heard the motorcycle scream to a halt. 
 “I love the guy!” says Chef Mario Batali, who worked at Stars 
with Tower. “He’s a culinary inspiration.” Tower and Batali share 
a tendency to mask professional fortitude behind expansive public 
personalities, but Tower influenced Batali’s taste for bright flavors, 
grand aspirations, and perhaps his current mode of transportation. 
Batali zips around Manhattan on his own two wheels, a Vespa. Other 
Tower protégées and members of the opening Stars team include 
Emily Luchetti, now executive pastry chef at Farallon and Waterbar, 
and Mark Franz, owner and executive chef of Farallon, Waterbar, and Nick’s Cove.
 “I don’t think many people see beyond Tower as ‘the chef,’” 
says Steven Vranian, another Stars alumnus. “He once told me that 
the hardest thing he ever did was to take off the chef’s coat and put 
on his Armani. We all hid behind that white coat, but Tower was 
first a restaurateur; he worked all of Stars: bartender, maître d’, 
wine buyer and steward, cook and, of course, as architect, designing 
the restaurants and constantly changing them. He was a hands-on  
operator who planned all the marketing and publicity. He taught 
all of us—at least those who listened—the importance of hospitality, 80 / James Beardfrom the feel of a napkin to the weight of a fork and wine glass to the 
color, lighting, and vision of a room. Every detail had to be right.”
 Tower notes that California cuisine would never have been 
labeled as such if not for a few French chefs whose pushiness brought 
out his competitive side. At a 1983 event in Rhode Island called  
“Innovations,” designed to spotlight cranberries, Tower pulled out 
the histrionics: “Guy Savoy, who was the Young Turk in France at 
the time, was invited to come to the United States and put on a din-
ner for a hundred American food journalists so they could see what 
the so-called Nouvelle Cuisine in France was really like. Then they 
invited some of us California kids to do a funny little lunch to keep 
everybody’s strength up. We got to the Astor mansion and we were 
in the kitchen, and of course the French arrived and said, ‘Out, out, 
out!’ Obviously, they were the important ones, and they wanted the 
kitchen. So, I looked around for a place to cook, and remembered 
that idea of theater. The only heat source we had was two six-foot-long  
grills, and mesquite charcoal. We set the grills and tables right in 
front of where the journalists were going to have lunch. Staging  
is everything. We cooked it all there. It was the first time they had 
ever seen grilling and salsas, and things like that. And it fired their 
imaginations. It was certainly the first time we’d ever cooked dessert 
on a charcoal grill.”
 Tower tells how he cooked fruit ragout for dessert, and that 
the crowd loved the sight of six chefs, each with a sauté pan in his 
hand, tossing together in sequence. “We stole the show and kid-
napped the media coverage,” Tower says triumphantly. 
“the term ‘CALIFOrNIA CUISINe’ WAS bOrN, ANd WhA t thA t 
meANt WAS PLAS tered ACrOSS every NeWSPAPer FOOd SeC-
tION IN AmerICA. It WAS A deLICIOUS FeeLING.” 
 “On the trip back after the Astor mansion event, I was stunned 
into a coma. All I could think was, ‘What have I done?’ The life I 
knew before was over, and now I was riding a white shark that needed to be fed every week in the food sections. So I decided to wear spurs, 
and get on with it,” he says.
 Tower says that the enthusiasm for fresh ingredients gener-
ated by the California cuisine movement in the 1970s and 1980s 
changed American cuisine forever. “You can get boutique farm 
and baby vegetables and lettuces and wild rice and fresh herbs pretty 
much everywhere now. What’s left for chefs to work with, in terms of innovation? Does that raise the bar?” he asks.
 In Tower’s opinion, it does raise the bar. But the challenge 
now is not to find the ingredients, though that is, he believes, still a 
huge part of any chef’s work. He thinks the challenge is to step back 
and let the food and ingredients really speak, rather than say “Look, 
that is the food of a famous chef.” It’s not necessarily doing some-thing new, but doing something new for yourself, and letting the 
food be famous. 
 After owning several restaurants (Stars, Stars Café, Singapore 
Stars, Seattle Stars, Speedo 690, and The Peak Café in Hong Kong), 
serving thousands of meals, and earning national recognition,  
Tower was named James Beard Foundation 1996 Outstanding 
Chef. In 1998, Tower sold the Stars group and closed others of  
his restaurants. 
 Now a writer more than a chef, Tower has written several books 
and regularly contributes to international culinary magazines. His 
first book, New American Classics, won a James Beard Foundation award 
in 1987 for Best American Regional Cookbook. His 2004 memoir,  
California Dish: What I Saw (and Cooked) at the American Culinary Revolution,  
detailing his participation in that movement, is a ribald, controver-
sial account of California cuisine’s high jinks and low moments.
 Today, Tower has come full circle, using his degree in  
architecture to restore old colonial mansions in Merida, Mexico, and working on a land development project near Chichén Itzá. He 
regularly goes scuba diving with sharks frolicking nearby. “They’re 
friendlier there than in a restaurant,” he says with characteristic flair.82 / James Beard
83 / Best of the BestTo make the soup
1. In a 1-quart saucepan over high heat, bring 1/2 cup water to a boil. Add the basil, chile, and 
cumin. Simmer for 5 minutes. Strain and discard the seasonings, reserving the water. In a 
food processor or blender, purée half of the melon and half of the seasoned water. Press the 
purée through a strainer or chinois into a medium bowl. Repeat with the remaining melon 
and water. Stir the yogurt into the melon mixture. Season with salt, cover, and refrigerate 
the soup for at least 2 hours.
To make the rémoulade
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, mustard, parsley, tarragon, onion, zest, 
hot sauce, and paprika. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours.
2. Immediately prior to serving, fold the crabmeat into the rémoulade. Pour the melon soup 
into chilled soup plates. Mound crab in the center of each. Garnish with chervil, hot sauce, and edible flowers, if using.
 
SERVES 6 TO 81 tablespoon minced fresh flat-leaf parsley
1 tablespoon minced fresh tarragon1 tablespoon grated white onion1 lemon, zested2 teaspoons hot sauce1 teaspoon smoked paprika (pimentón)  
 
2 cups lump crabmeat, picked over  
 Fresh chervil leaves
hot sauceNasturtium or other edible flowers, shredded 
(optional)MELON SOUP
1 large, fresh basil sprig
1/4 habañero chile, seeded
Pinch ground cumin
2 cups 1-inch dice honeydew melon2 tablespoons plain yogurtSalt
CRAB RÉMOULADE
1 cup mayonnaise1 tablespoon Creole mustardCHILLED HONEYDEW MELON SOUP  with
CRAB RÉMOULADE84 / James BeardTo make the tails and sauce
1. Heat the oil in a 12-inch stockpot over medium heat. Add the crayfish, paprika, and thyme 
and stir constantly for 3 minutes. Add the wine and stir to scrape up the browned bits from 
the bottom of the pot. Add the tomatoes, stock, and parsley. Simmer until the crayfish tails 
are almost cooked, 2 to 3 minutes. 
2. Remove the crayfish and set aside to cool, reserving the cooking liquid. Peel the crayfish 
and save the tail meat separately. Place the heads and shells in a food processor with the cook-
ing liquid and purée. Strain the liquid into a 2-quart saucepan. Cook it over medium heat to 
reduce the volume if there is more than 3/4 cup. Whisk in the butter and correct the seasoning 
with salt and pepper as necessary.CHICKEN BREASTS
4 large skin-on chicken breasts with first wing-
bone
2 tablespoons butter2 sprigs fresh tarragon4 garlic cloves, unpeeled, coarsely chopped2 cups chicken stock
4 leaves green Swiss chard, stems removed
1 cup cooked white hominy, drained and rinsed
1 cup cooked yellow hominy, drained and rinsedCRAYFISH TAILS AND SAUCE
2 tablespoons olive oil
24 whole, live crayfish1 teaspoon paprika2 sprigs fresh thyme
1/4 cup chardonnay or muscadet 
2 large tomatoes, seeded, coarsely chopped1 cup clam stock or other rich fish or shellfish 
stock 
2 sprigs fresh flat-leaf parsley
4 to 6 tablespoons unsalted butter
SaltFreshly ground black pepper  
 POACHED CHICKEN BREASTS  with
HOMINY and CRAYFISH85 / Best of the BestTo make the chicken
1. Cut the wing bones from the breasts. Melt the butter over medium heat in a 12-inch sauté 
pan. Add the tarragon and garlic. Stir over medium heat for 2 minutes. Season the breasts 
and wings with salt and pepper and place them skin-side down in the sauté pan. Cook for  
2 minutes and turn over, cooking for another 2 minutes. Add the stock, bring to a simmer, 
cover, and poach until the breasts are half cooked, about 5 minutes longer.
2. Remove the chicken and reserve the poaching liquid. When the chicken is cool enough to 
handle, remove and discard the skin. Set the chicken aside.
3. Strain the poaching liquid, skim to remove any fat, and return the poaching liquid to  
the sauté pan. Add the chard and simmer for 5 minutes, or until soft enough to fold around 
the chicken but still very green in color. Remove the chard and set aside. Reserve half of the 
cooking liquid in the sauté pan. Add the white and yellow hominy and cook over low heat for 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.
4. Wrap a chard leaf around each breast. Place the wrapped breasts and the wings back in the 
sauté pan on top of the hominy and liquid. Cover and finish cooking, 5 to 7 minutes.
5. Using a slotted spoon, place the hominy without any liquid onto warmed plates and set the 
wrapped breasts in the center. Add the wing bone to the plate. Spoon the crayfish sauce and crayfish tail meat around the chicken and serve.
NOTE:  Crayfish tails and seafood stock reduced by half may be substituted for whole live cray-
fish and shell purée, but the dish will lack the intensity of flavor imparted by the shell purée. 
 
SERVES 487 / Best of the Best
1997
thOmAS KeLLer
ChAPtER  eight88 / James BeardthOmAS KeLLer is often sPoKen of in hushed tones, 
minimAl Ad JeCtives, And sPArse Adverbs. But there’s the 
real guy, a long, tall drink of water, lanky in faded jeans with an off-
in-the-distance stare, who ought to be called Tommy. 
 Is it possible to be such a buttoned-up king of the kitchen 
and—at the same time—wear cowboy boots when he relaxes? Perhaps 
this is what you call an enigma—another word that’s been used to 
describe Thomas Keller. Those who know him say Keller’s reserve 
isn’t shyness; it’s more about contemplation. They say that lurking 
beneath his zeal for routine, for procedure, there’s a considerate, 
funny guy. They also understand that he’s a force of nature. And 
they don’t mean it dismissively. A staff member explains, “Cooking’s 
his life. His entire life. Other people go to work, go home. Thomas lives the whole experience.” 
 About an hour and a half north of San Francisco, in the town 
of Yountville, in the Napa Valley, is a sanctuary—a food sanctuary 
called The French Laundry. Some will tell you it’s the best restau-
rant in America. Some will tell you Thomas Keller is the best chef in 
America. What Keller believes is that great cooking comes from the 
heart. His heart came to the stove young. As a boy, Keller, the fifth 
of six children, was expected to help his mother, who held a variety of restaurant jobs.
 As Keller remembers, “My parents were divorced. My mother 
didn’t have a babysitter, so I’d go to the restaurant where she worked 
and wash dishes.”
 One night, standing at that sink, young Keller had an epiph-
any: He enjoyed the repetition of turning a dirty dish into a clean 
one. “Repetition and rituals are important to me. Specific times. 
Specific days. Repetition is how someone becomes good at some-
thing. Do it over and over again,” he says.
 Even today, methodical systems unify Keller’s cooking, his 
restaurant, and his staff, who are trained and tested, and reflect on 
their performance after every service. He hired a choreographer to train the dining room staff to perform their functions with a  complimentary grace and symmetry. For the guests, the table’s aura, 
“the bubble,” is never to be burst. No detail is overlooked.
 He didn’t always have these rules. In the beginning, Keller 
was just another kid with a job in a kitchen. It was when he worked 
summers at the Palm Beach Yacht Club that Keller first discovered 
he liked to cook better than he liked washing dishes—and he really 
liked washing dishes. 
 In 1976, Roland Henin hired him to cook the staff’s meals at 
The Dunes Club in Rhode Island. Even today, Thomas Keller still 
calls Roland Henin “my chef.” Henin taught Keller how a profes-
sional kitchen works, how a chef works, and how it all comes together.  
Henin loaned Keller a copy of Fernand Point’s Ma Gastronomie, which 
was pivotal for Keller. Years later, he was honored to write the fore-word to a new addition of the book.
  Over the years, Keller moved from kitchen to kitchen, learn-
ing, succeeding, failing, and then succeeding again. He traveled to 
France where he added Guy Savoy, Le Pres Catalan, and Taillevent,  
all Michelin-starred houses, to his resume before returning to  
New York. Successful runs at La Reserve and Restaurant Raphael in New York led to Rakel, opened in 1986 by Keller and his partner, 
Serge Raoul. Rakel was the best neighborhood restaurant in New 
York until the economy dived. Out of work, he headed to California 
to look for a job and a little consulting work.
 In the back of his mind was a vision: A special place, small, 
in an idyllic setting, like some of those he had seen in the French 
countryside. Perhaps a place with climbing roses.
 In time, he came across a building in Yountville, California.  
The ivy-covered structure looked more like a house than a restau-
rant, which it had become after it was a saloon, a brothel, and a 
French steam laundry. Later, in his best-selling The French Laun-
dry Cookbook, Keller noted, “It seemed as if I’d been heading 
there my whole working life.” He approached the couple who 
were running it—mayor Don Schmitt, and his wife Sally—and  
arranged to buy it. 89 / Best of the Best It took eighteen months of hard work to turn the former laun-
dry building into The French Laundry, the restaurant he envisioned. 
 “My biggest asset was my total ignorance. If someone had told 
me, ‘Thomas, you are going to be working on this for the next eigh-
teen months. You will have to get a small business loan. You’ll have 
to talk to four hundred people to get money’ and do all these things 
I couldn’t do, I would not have believed them,” Keller says.
 However, shortly after The French Laundry opened in 1994, 
Ruth Reichl reviewed it in the New York Times: “Imagine a restaurant 
hidden in the middle of the vineyards. It is an old stone house filled 
with the golden light of many candles. There is a courtyard in the 
center, and on fine nights, tables are set in the fragrant garden  
beneath a starry sky. We’re dreaming here, so picture each meal as 
a series of small fantastic tastes, served at a leisurely pace by waiters 
who want nothing but your happiness. They search your face, watch-
ing as flavors you could never have conceived flit across your palate, 
willing you to like each one.”
 Keller’s life, The French Laundry, and Yountville were never 
the same. 
 The restaurant became a destination for people who consider 
food a serious subject—serious enough to plan far in advance. One 
does not drop in for a bite at The French Laundry on the spur of the 
moment. Nor, once there, does one eat and run.
 A meal at The French Laundry is a tasting of many small,  
intensely flavored dishes with no ingredient repeated. Components 
are designed to excite the imagination and pique curiosity; the dishes  
are matched with wines to best exhilarate the palate. The meal can 
stretch for hours.
 “I really believe in the law of diminishing returns,” says 
Keller. After three or four bites, taste peaks. So, he gives you a few 
perfect bites and leaves you wanting another just as the waiter puts 
the next dish down in front of you. “When your guest says, ‘God, I 
wish I had one more bite….’ That’s what we’re trying to achieve,” he 
says. “That’s our goal; our philosophy.”  Whimsy is another part of the philosophy. “Oysters and Pearls,” 
one of his famous flavor combinations, came about when he noticed 
a box of tapioca pearls on a grocery shelf. Pearls come from oysters. 
Tapioca looks like pearls. This mental leapfrogging became Sabayon of 
Pearl Tapioca with Island Creek Oysters and White Sturgeon Caviar. 
 He also created a delicious little serendipity of taste with his 
now-famous takeoff on ice cream cones: Tiny cornets filled with 
crème fraîche, topped with a perfect scoop of salmon tartare. You 
get your cone at the beginning of the meal, not the end. He uses 
fanciful culinary twists on other menu items, but Keller is playful 
only when he’s certain that it works, that it will bring a new dimen-
sion to the table—and maybe a smile. 
“I LOve t O heAr SOmeONe SAy, ‘thIS remINd S me OF . . . ,’  
ANd theN they teLL me AbOUt A WONderFUL exPerI-
eNCe thA t they hAd SOmeWhere,” SAyS KeLLer. “I hOPe 
they GO SOmeWhere eLSe NOW ANd SAy, ‘thIS remINd S 
me OF the FreNCh LAUNdry.’ beCAUSe It’S thOSe memO-
rIeS thA t I thINK Are the mOS t ImPOrt ANt.” 
 Does Keller go to extremes? Is he too methodical, too pre-
cise, too obsessed with perfection? The word he chooses is “finesse.” 
In fact, a sign over the kitchen door reminds staff that finesse is  
“refinement and delicacy of performance, execution or artisanship.”
 Michael Ruhlman, Keller’s friend and the acclaimed  
author who worked closely with Keller to produce four award- 
winning cookbooks, says Keller is “incredibly, uncommonly 
thoughtful” about his work and the people around him. “He always  
challenges everyone. The idea is that if you approach every day like 
that you’ll get very good at what you’re doing. He helped me to 
see in the kitchen—he taught me how to pay attention, how to be  
observant—aware that if a pot of cream boils over, you not only have 
a mess; you no longer have enough cream. When I asked why he was 
removing the membrane from a side of tuna, he asked me to taste the membrane. That taught me why he was removing it.”90 / James Beard But while he creates haute cuisine, Keller also has a taste for 
simple things: roast chicken, peanut butter, pizza, and the instant 
oatmeal he usually enjoys for breakfast. Hot dogs were a staple of 
his childhood, he still welcomes the sight of a taco truck, and he 
laughs when he recalls that he once toyed with the notion of opening 
a hamburger stand. 
 In addition to The French Laundry, Keller’s Yountville  
restaurants now include Bouchon Bistro, Bouchon Bakery, and  
Ad Hoc, a family-style restaurant; and there’s a three-acre kitchen 
garden. “We opened Bouchon because we needed a place to eat,”  
recalls Keller. “Everything was closed by 9:30 at night. We were wide 
awake after work and wanted to go eat—we didn’t want to just go to 
bed.” The bakery was opened so that The French Laundry would 
have its own bread, but has grown to encompass its own retail and 
wholesale operation. 
 “The idea for Ad Hoc came up with everyone sitting around 
the table on April 1. No kidding. Everyone else thought it was an 
April Fool’s joke when an e-mail went out that night to the team,” 
he says. “It was supposed to be temporary so it was named Ad Hoc, 
which literally means, ‘for this purpose.’” 
 Keller, like most great chefs, is happy to pass along what he’s 
learned. Grant Achatz, chef/owner of Alinea in Chicago, was young 
and inexperienced when Keller hired him. “It was 1996, so I was 
only twenty-two, and really needed a strong leader,” says Achatz. “I 
needed somebody to guide me, not only in cooking, but learning restaurants. Ultimately, he instilled a set of values that went beyond 
the kitchen and into my life. He was the first one in the door and the 
last one to leave. He was twenty years older than all of his cooks and 
outworking them by far. And I watched him become more and more 
successful, by hard work.” Achatz learned well. The James Beard 
Foundation named him Outstanding Chef in 2008.
 In 2004, Keller turned his focus toward opening the restau-
rant Per Se, an urban interpretation of The French Laundry in the middle of Manhattan. The name came about because Keller had to  
repeatedly explain that the restaurant wouldn’t be The French  Laundry, per se. Now some critics have called both restaurants the 
best in America. Also that year came Keller’s business expansion to 
Las Vegas with a second Bouchon. Bouchon Bakery opened there in 
2004 and in New York’s Time Warner Center in 2006, with a third 
New York location scheduled to open in 2011. Keller, now a busi-
nessman, and always an honest man, explains exactly what that means in his world. “I’m not solely a chef any longer—I have become a res-
taurateur.” 
 There is a difference. “My life changed a lot,” says Keller. “I 
was all of a sudden out of my spot in the kitchen. I don’t stand there 
expediting anymore—because I can’t.” Keller loves the idea of what 
he’s doing in his new role, though. “Impacting this team and how 
they will impact others. It’s a great thing even though I still struggle 
with not being the chef and working in the kitchen, having those wonderful moments with the team. It makes you feel a little older 
because you are not in there, but at the same time you have to realize 
that you can’t work sixteen hours a day forever,” he says.
 Despite all the acclaim, Keller tries to keep a realistic per-
spective: “It’s great to be the first American ever to have seven  
Michelin stars. It’s great to be the first American to have two simul-
taneous Michelin three-star ratings. The first to win back-to-back 
James Beard awards. All these firsts, but what I’ve accomplished has 
to do with so many people.” 
 Next door to The French Laundry, a bungalow called the  
Bocuse House serves as a small test kitchen and harbors occasional  
chef-friends, among them Paul Bocuse himself. Inside the little 
kitchen, Keller kicks off his clogs and slides around in socks to music,  
regularly wiping up footprints tracked in when vegetables are carried in from the garden across the road.
 That’s Thomas Keller, too.92 / James BeardTo make the brioche
1. Combine the water and yeast in a small glass bowl; let rest for 10 minutes. Stir with a non-
metallic spoon until the yeast is completely dissolved. 
2. Sift the cake flour, all-purpose flour, sugar, and salt into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted 
with a dough hook. Add the eggs and beat for 1 minute at low speed, scraping down the sides 
with a rubber spatula as needed. Slowly add the dissolved yeast and continue beating at low 
speed for 5 minutes. Stop the mixer and scrape any dough off the dough hook, then resume beating for another 5 minutes. Add one fourth of the butter cubes and beat for 1 minute. 
Continue to add the butter in fourths, beating for 1 minute for each addition. Once all the 
butter is added, beat for 10 to 15 minutes longer, until the dough is smooth.
3. Remove the dough from the mixer and place it in a large, floured mixing bowl. Cover and 
set aside in a warm place until doubled in size, about 3 hours. 
4. Turn the dough out onto a generously floured work surface and gently work the air bubbles 
out by folding the dough over several times while lightly pressing down on it. Return the 
dough to the bowl, cover, and refrigerate overnight.
5. Generously butter two 8 1/2-by-4 1/2-by-3-inch loaf pans. Turn the dough out onto a floured 
work surface. With floured hands, divide it in half and shape into two rectangles to fit the loaf 
pans. Place the dough in the pans. Let them rise, uncovered, in a warm place until 1/2 inch 
above the top of pans, about 3 hours.AVOCADO MOUSSE
31/2 ounces peeled, pitted avocado
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon crème fraîche
1/2 teaspoon pistachio oil 
Pinch ascorbic acid 
Salt  
 
6 to 8 ounces caviarBRIOCHE
1/3 cup very warm water (110° to 115°F)
one 1/4-ounce package active dry yeast  
(not quick-rising)
21/3 cups cake flour
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
21/2 teaspoons fine sea salt
6 large eggs, at room temperature1
1/4 cups unsalted butter, at room temperature, 
diced into 1-inch cubes, plus butter for the pansCAVIAR  with BRIOCHE and AVOCADO MOUSSE93 / Best of the Best6. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
7. Bake the brioche until well browned on top and the loaves sound hollow when tapped on 
the bottom, 35 to 40 minutes. Remove from the oven and immediately turn the loaves out 
onto a wire rack. Let cool for 10 minutes. 
8. If serving within a few hours, promptly wrap the hot bread in aluminum foil and store at 
room temperature until ready to use. If freezing, immediately wrap the hot bread in foil and promptly freeze for up to 1 month. (If frozen, when ready to use, reheat while still wrapped 
in foil and without thawing at 250°F for 20 to 25 minutes.) 
To make the avocado mousse
1. Combine the avocado, crème fraîche, oil, ascorbic acid, and a pinch of salt in a blender 
and blend until smooth. Press through a chinois. Put the mousse in a pastry bag and refriger-
ate. Reserve.
2. To make brioche rounds, preheat the oven to 300°F. Cut three or four 1/8-inch-thick 
slices from a brioche loaf. Using a 1-inch round cookie cutter, cut out 6 to 8 rounds. Place 
the rounds on a parchment paper–lined baking sheet. Place a second sheet of parchment on 
top of the rounds and set a second baking sheet atop the rounds to flatten them. Bake until golden brown, about 10 minutes. 
To assemble
1. Place a 1-inch dollop of avocado mousse (about 1 tablespoon) in the center of each serv-
ing plate. Place 1 brioche round on top of the mousse. Add 1 ounce of caviar on top of the 
brioche round and serve.
NOTE: If you like, instead of making your own brioche, you can use good-quality freshly baked 
store-bought brioche. Better yet, use brioche from Bouchon Bakery if there is one near you.
 
SERVES 6 TO 894 / James Beard
95 / Best of the BestLAMB with   SWISS CHARD, TOKYO TURNIP,  
ARROWLEAF SPINACH, and  DIjON MUSTARD MOUSSELINE
MOUSSELINE
6 egg yolks
1/2 cup clarified butter
21/2 ounces heavy cream
1 1/2 ounces mustard
1 tablespoon champagne vinegar
SAUCE D’AGNEAU
1/2 cup canola oil
11/2 pounds lamb bones,  
chopped into 1-inch pieces 
21/2 cups strained chicken stock
1 cup 1/2-inch dice onions 
1 cup 1/2-inch dice leeks 
1 cup 1/2-inch dice carrots
1/2 ounce fresh thyme sprigs
2 garlic cloves, crushed1 cup chopped tomatoes1 cup veal stock1 cup lamb stock
GLAZED TURNIPS
12 to 15 baby turnips, peeled1 teaspoon sugar
LAMB LOINS
olive oil4 lamb loins, bias cut into 8 medallions,  
about 2 ounces per medallionLAMB SHORT RIBS
16 lamb ribs, reserved from cutting lamb rib-eyesSalt Freshly ground black pepperCanola oil2 carrots, cut crosswise into 1-inch slices2 onions, cut crosswise into 1-inch slices2 leeks, cut crosswise into 1-inch slices
1 head garlic, cut in half lengthwise
1 bay leaf
1 bunch fresh thyme
1 bunch fresh parsley stems
6
1/2 quarts lamb stock
SWISS CHARD RIBS
3 bouquet garnis of 1 bay leaf, 1 sprig thyme
1 clove garlic 
2 teaspoons olive oil
kosher salt 
3 Cryovac bags
3 large red rainbow chard stems,  
cut 21/2 inches by 1/2 inch
olive oil 
Champagne vinegar
SPINACH
4 ounces fresh spinach1 Cryovac bag3 tablespoons kosher salt1 tablespoon olive oil, plus more for reheating 
CONTINUED96 / James BeardTo make the short ribs
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. On the side of the ribs closest to the shoulder, count four bones 
and cut each section off. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Heat some oil in a large, shallow casserole over medium heat. Brown the ribs and then 
remove them. Pour out the excess oil and reduce the heat to low. Sweat the carrots, onions, 
leeks, garlic, bay leaf, thyme, and parsley stems by cooking until they soften but don’t brown, 
about 3 minutes.
3. Return the ribs to the casserole and stack them so they will be easily removed later. Cover 
the contents with the lamb stock and bring to a simmer. Press parchment paper down on the 
surface and cover tightly with aluminum foil. Place in the oven and braise for approximately 
2 hours. The ribs are done when the meat easily pulls away from the bone.
4. Allow the ribs to cool in the stock for 3 hours, then gently remove the ribs and allow them 
to continue cooling on a parchment paper–lined baking sheet.
5. If you’re right-handed, hold the ribs in your left hand with the chine bone facing away 
from you. With your right thumb and index finger, grasp the bottom of the chine bone. 
Gently twist the bone and push forward to remove, taking care not to tear the meat.
6. Lay the deboned rib on a fresh parchment paper–lined baking sheet with the meat-side 
down, being sure to remove any clinging mirepoix. Season with salt and pepper. Lay a second piece of parchment paper on top of the ribs and then another baking sheet. Weight the top 
tray to press the ribs; refrigerate overnight.
To make the Swiss chard ribs
1. Add 1 bouquet garni to each Cryovac bag. Set vacuum-pack level on medium high. Cook 
in a sous vide at 185°F for 25 minutes. Place each bag in an ice bath to chill completely. In 
a small sauté pan over medium heat, warm the stems in a drizzle of olive oil, a few drops of 
champagne vinegar, and a pinch of salt and white pepper. 
To make the spinach
1. Put the spinach in the Cryovac bag with the salt and oil. Set vacuum level on medium high 
for at least 5 minutes. To reheat, put in medium sauté pan over low heat with olive oil. 
To make the mousseline
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, butter, cream, mustard, vinegar, and 1 table-
spoon water until creamy. Season with salt and pepper. Place the mixture into a whipped 
cream dispenser. Close tightly and fill the canister with two nitrous oxide charges one at a 
time. Set aside.97 / Best of the BestTo make the sauce d’agneau
1. Heat the oil over high heat in a wide, heavy pot that is large enough to hold the bones in 
one layer. When the oil begins to smoke, add the bones. Sear the bones without stirring for 
about 10 minutes. Turn the bones and cook for 10 minutes more, or until evenly colored.
2. For the first deglazing, add 1 cup water to the pot. Stirring with a wooden spoon, scrape up 
any glazed juices that cling to the bottom of the pot and cook until the liquid has evaporated 
and the pot is reglazed and sizzling again. For the second deglazing, add half of the chicken 
stock and allow it to boil down. For the third deglazing, add onions, leeks, and carrots and 
cook until the moisture has evaporated and the vegetables are lightly caramelized. Add the 
thyme and garlic and cook until the juices evaporate to form another glaze. For the fourth 
deglazing, add the tomatoes and cook until the juices evaporate and form another glaze. For the fifth deglazing, add the remaining chicken stock, the veal stock, and the lamb stock.  
Deglaze the pot and transfer the stock and bones into a smaller, narrower pot so that it will 
be easier to skim.
3. With the pot set partially off the burner to force impurities to one side, bring to a simmer 
and ladle off fat as it rises to the top. Simmer for another 30 to 45 minutes, skimming often, until the stock has reduced to the level of the bones. Strain through a china-cap sieve and 
then again through a chinois. Do not force any solids through the strainer or they will cloud 
the sauce. Pour the liquid into a small pot; reduce to about 1 cup and strain. Chill the sauce 
for use later or keep warm for immediate use.
To make the turnips
1. In a 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, combine the turnips, 2 cups water, the sugar, and 
a pinch of salt. Bring to a simmer and cook for 10 to 15 minutes, or until tender. Remove from the heat and set aside.
To make the lamb loins
1. In a 10-inch sauté pan over high heat, warm the oil and sear the loins on both sides. Con-
tinue cooking on each side until medium-rare, another 3 minutes. Rest 8 to 10 minutes and  
reserve warm.
To plate the lamb loins
1. In a 10-inch sauté pan, heat the Swiss chard ribs, turnips, and spinach until warm, 2 to  
3 minutes. Place 2 pieces of the warmed lamb ribs in the center of the plate. Place 2 medal-lions of lamb loin next to the riblets. Place 2 small piles of the warmed spinach next to each 
of the lamb ribs. Add the Swiss chard ribs and glazed turnips. Ladle 1 ounce of sauce d’agneau around the plate and finish with a dollop of mousseline. 
 
SERVES 699 / Best of the Best
1998
JeAN-GeOrGeS v ONGerIChteN
ChAPtER  nine100 / James Beard“he’S WOrth NO thING.” With thA t evAlu Ation, JeAn-
georges vongeriChten WA s KiCKed out of teChniCAl  
sChool. His parents expected him to join the family coal business 
in Strasbourg, France, but he admits “I had no passion for it. If 
you don’t have a passion for what you’re doing, drop it.” Instead,  
Vongerichten dropped into a kitchen. 
 Now the head of international restaurant companies from 
America to Asia, Vongerichten doesn’t feel too guilty that he aban-
doned the family business because he knew his younger brothers 
would join it. Feeding forty or fifty employees every day was much 
more to his liking. 
 For his sixteenth birthday, Vongerichten’s parents took him 
to the Michelin three-star Auberge de l’Ill. Enthralled by the experi-
ence, when chef Paul Haeberlin came over to the table, Vongerichten 
had an epiphany. “I was amazed. I thought, ‘This is it,’” he recalls.
 Haeberlin soon found a place for the new apprentice—one that 
lasted three years and included a shift as chiens chef, or cooking for cus-
tomers’ dogs. The aspiring chef did his army service, then wrangled a 
position as a commis, a beginning cook, at Louis Outhier’s three-star 
Michelin restaurant, l’Oasis, in La Napoule, close to Cannes.
 “Outhier was a fanatic for cleanliness and order,” Vongerich-
ten remembers, a trait he passed on to the young chef, who modeled 
his personal style on his mentor’s. He was a “very elegant, beautifully 
dressed, and very civilized man—a bit of a playboy. He taught me 
about clothes and about women as kind of a father figure to me.”
 Vongerichten next did a nine-month stint with Paul Bocuse, 
the famous Lyonnaise three-star chef, “I was a commis, young, still 
cooking at the stove. Every morning we went to the market, selecting 
great products. We would go through ten cases of tomatoes to pick 
the right one. Good food, but a bit like the army. Bocuse’s kitchen 
is disciplined, hygienic. He insisted that we know how to clean, wash 
our hands every time we did something. He taught us how to become 
chefs. It was like the way my mother made me clean my room, and 
make the bed. It’s good for kids. Teach them to pick up,” remembers 
Vongerichten. Outhier, who had a contract with the Mandarin Oriental 
hotel chain, offered Jean-Georges a job in Bangkok. In November 
1980, the twenty-three-year-old Vongerichten took over a kitchen 
with a staff of twenty Thai cooks. While Vongerichten was cook-
ing classical French food, he was falling in love with the flavors of 
Thailand. He stayed in Bangkok for two years before moving on to  
Singapore, Hong Kong, and Osaka, absorbing the local cuisine at 
each stop. He went from cooking with cream and butter to using 
ginger, lemongrass, and chiles. Vongerichten developed a love for 
the exotic and aromatic flavors of the East. “It changed the way I 
cook today; it changed my palate completely. I like to say that it’s like 
alchemy,” the chef remarks. Basing recipes on the French funda-
mentals of au fond, bouillon, fumet, and jus, he seeks sweetness, sourness, 
and bitterness in fruits and herbs and then finds additional umami in 
flavors from Asian cuisines. 
 His philosophy is all about creating cravings. People become 
comfortable with a couple of items on the menu in a particular res-
taurant, so he keeps those favorites on the menu all the time. “People 
come back for the foods that they are comfortable with. Then many 
people,” he observes, “especially in New York City, want new items 
on the menu when they revisit my restaurants.” At the same time, he’s 
sensitive to the various shifts and appetites of his guests. “Seasonings 
are magical—vibrant. When people say, ‘I never tasted this before!’ 
then I know they get it, and this is what pushes me. That’s my drive!”
 In 1986, Vongerichten was twenty-eight-years old and got 
another assignment from Outhier—to start a dining room at the 
Drake Hotel on Park Avenue and 56th Street. New York in the 1980s 
was a heady time for the restaurant scene. The superstar chefs of the 
future were just gaining traction. David Bouley had left Montrachet  
and opened his own place, Daniel Boulud was at Le Cirque, and 
Thomas Keller was at Rakel. “It was a lot of pressure,” Vongerichten  
says. “I’m a guy who always questions myself. Every day the bar 
was higher.” But despite the pressure—or perhaps because of it— 
Vongerichten began making a name for himself. 101 / Best of the Best “I was doing Outhier’s style of cooking,” he recalls. “For the 
first six months, I didn’t leave the hotel. I was scared. I was a country 
boy. Then Gilbert le Coze came in. He took me to the Fulton Fish 
Market.” Vongerichten then visited Chinatown, and was reunited 
with many of his favorite Asian ingredients. Within a year of arriving 
in New York, Jean-Georges was cooking food unlike anywhere else 
in Manhattan—or in the world.
 Ready for equity or a new venture, Vongerichten teamed up 
with one of his most loyal customers, Phil Suarez, to find a space, an 
old pick-up joint on 64th Street. They signed the lease on January 
25, 1991, just as the first Gulf War started and the recession deep-
ened. Vongerichten was sleeping on a friend’s foldout couch in a 
studio apartment as he prepared to open JoJo, his bistro, in a kitchen  
with five burners and a single oven. Suarez and Vongerichten con-
tinue to be business partners. “He’s still there for me every day and 
I am there for him, like a good marriage. It is trust.” 
 The spartan ambience of JoJo, the paper tablecloths and 
pared-down menu, was dictated as much by financial constraints as 
by a vision of simplicity. It was not a propitious moment to open a 
restaurant, but Vongerichten and Suarez forged ahead and began 
building an empire. 
 In March 1997, Vongerichten opened Jean-Georges restau-
rant in the Trump International Hotel and Tower. Less than three months after opening, Jean-Georges received four stars from Frank 
Bruni of the New York Times.
 Vongerichten believes in working as a strong team with mem-
bers that share his vision and philosophy. They learn from each other.  
“I want to have an open mind and keep communication open among 
everyone,” says the chef. “We’ve had the same managers and crews 
in our restaurants for years. They run their own restaurants. It’s all 
about having the right chefs, the right sous-chefs, and all the other 
people that it takes to run successful restaurants,” he analyzes. “The 
difficult part is training people to perform to the best of their abili-
ties and to share my food and hospitality philosophies. The chef at 
JoJo has been with me for eight years and the chef at the New York Vong and I worked together for fourteen years. We can cook together 
without even speaking.”
 About his approach to creating and cooking, Vongerichten says, 
“I LOve t O CreA te, NOt tO rePeA t. FOr FIFteeN yeArS IN 
FrANCe, I PrePAred Other CheF ’S dISheS. NOW I CherISh 
the OPPOrtUNIty t O INveNt NeW FLAvOrS ANd t ASteS, 
SINCe I hA te t O rePeA t the SAme OLd thING.
 Vongerichten currently runs a multitude of restaurants—eight 
in New York alone. A partnership with Starwood Hotels gives him 
the latitude to spread his creativity—and Asian influences—in several 
new restaurants worldwide. He would open a new restaurant every month, if he had his way.
 “He doesn’t know how to chill, but he’s learning,” says  
Suarez. “His best friend is the kitchen.” Vongerichten and his family 
bought a getaway home in upstate New York in 2007. “As soon as 
he gets there, he goes right back to his childhood in Alsace—he was 
a kid with a slingshot, wandering the woods,” Suarez says. “It’s an adventure for him.” For thirty-five years, Vongerichten worked six 
days a week. Now the family spends most weekends in the country. 
“It’s about time,” says Clive Davis, the music mogul and a longtime 
friend. “The fact that he is balancing his life and participating in the 
development and growth of his family is remarkable.” Vongerichten, 
a tightly wound, energetic husband and father, has a pond, vegetable 
garden, guest house, and raises 30,000 bees on four acres. 
 For all his celebrity, Vongerichten isn’t entirely comfortable 
with frenetic socializing. He loves skiing, hang gliding, and para-
gliding—anything fast and dangerous—claiming that the best part of 
any vacation is returning to work. Although he will come out of the 
kitchen at Jean-Georges to greet an important patron, he’s happiest 
back among his chefs with a pan in hand.102 / James Beard
103 / Best of the Best1. Whip the cream until it holds stiff peaks, and then season with the lemon juice, vodka, salt, 
and cayenne. Taste and adjust the seasoning; the flavors should really sing. Whip the cream 
again until stiff.
2. Remove the tops from the eggshells, pour the eggs into a saucepan or skillet, preferably one 
with sloping sides, and set the bottoms of the shells in egg cups. Add the butter to the pan and season with salt and cayenne. Turn the heat to medium-high and whisk the egg mixture, 
stirring almost constantly but not too fast; you do not want it to become foamy.
3. After the butter melts, the mixture will begin to thicken, and then to lump up in small 
curds; this will take 3 to 8 minutes, depending on the heft of your pan and the heat level. If the mixture begins to stick on the bottom, remove the pan from the heat for a moment, and 
continue to whisk, then return to the heat.  
4. When the eggs become creamy, with small curds all over—not unlike loose oatmeal—they 
are ready. Do not overcook. Add more salt and cayenne if necessary, and spoon the egg mix-ture into the eggshells. Use a spoon or a pastry bag to pipe the whipped cream on top of the 
eggs. Top each with a spoonful of caviar and serve.
 
SERVES 44 large eggs
Cayenne pepper1
1/2 tablespoons butter
2 to 4 teaspoons caviar1/2 cup heavy cream
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice2 teaspoons vodkaSalt OEUFS  au CAVIAR104 / James Beard1. Over a double boiler, cook the egg yolks and lemon juice, whisking until ribbons are 
formed. Slowly whisk in the butter, and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Add water to 
reach the desired consistency.
2. Warm the butter in a 12-inch sauté pan over medium heat. Sauté the shallots, then add the 
morels and continue to sauté for 6 to 10 minutes longer. Add the cream and vin jaune, bring 
to a simmer, and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in 1/2 cup egg 
mixture. Set aside and keep warm.
3. Trim off and discard the bottom third of the pencil asparagus and thinly slice the spears. 
Bring a large pot of water to a boil and blanch the asparagus for 10 seconds. Remove with a strainer or slotted spoon and shock in ice water. Reserve the pot of water. In a blender, purée 
the asparagus until smooth and season with salt. 
4. Bring the blanching water back to a boil and cook the jumbo asparagus until done to your 
taste. Drain the jumbo asparagus and trim the spears to fit onto individual serving plates. In 
a small saucepan over medium heat, whisk the asparagus purée with the butter until heated  
through. Arrange the asparagus on the plates and spoon the asparagus purée alongside. 
Spoon the morels over the asparagus. Serve immediately.
NOTE:  Vin jaune is a nutty “yellow wine” made in the Jura region of France. It is similar to dry 
fino sherry.
 
SERVES 4 TO 68 ounces fresh morel mushrooms  
(about 21/3 cups)
1 cup heavy cream
1/3 cup vin jaune (See Note)
ASPARAGUS
1 pound pencil asparagus, unpeeled
Salt
24 stalks jumbo asparagus, peeled
1 tablespoon butterHOLLANDAISE SAUCE
8 large egg yolks1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 cups butter, diced and soft
Salt Freshly ground black pepper 
Cayenne pepper
MORELS
1 tablespoon butter
1 shallot, dicedGREEN ASPARAGUS  with MORELS and ASPARAGUS PURÉE106 / James Beard
107 / Best of the BestTo make the Château-Chalon sauce
1. In a large saucepan, sauté the carrots, celery, leeks, and onion in the butter. Sprinkle with 
salt and sauté until very soft. Add the wine to cover. Reduce by half. Cover with the stock and 
simmer for 45 minutes. Strain and discard the solids.
2. Return the stock to the saucepan and simmer until reduced by half. Whisk the cold but-
ter into the sauce to add richness and gloss. Finish the sauce with the Château-Chalon and lemon juice and season with salt and pepper. Set aside and keep warm.
To make the fish
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F. Season the turbot with salt and pepper. Scatter the butter in a 
large ovenproof pan and set the fish on top in a single layer. Bake until the fish is just cooked through, about 6 minutes.
To make the garnish
1. Warm the butter in a medium sauté pan over medium heat. Lightly sauté the tomato and 
zucchini lightly in the remaining 1 tablespoon butter. 
To serve
1. Set 1 piece of fish on each of six warmed plates. Brush each fillet with lemon juice and gar-
nish with the zucchini and tomato. Spoon the sauce around the fish. 
 
SERVES 6FISH
6 turbot fillets (5 ounces each)
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons butter, diced
GARNISHES
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup peeled, seeded, and diced tomatoes
1 cup diced zucchini
Fresh lemon juiceCHâTEAU-CHALON SAUCE
11/2 cups medium-dice carrots
1/2 cup medium-dice celery
1/2 cup medium-dice leek whites 
1/2 cup medium-dice onion
2 tablespoons butter
Salt
1 cup white wine2 quarts chicken stock
2 tablespoons cold butter 
3 cups Château-Chalon1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Freshly ground black pepperTURBOT  with CHâTEAU-CHALON SAUCE109 / Best of the Best
1999
ChArLIe trO tter
ChAPtER  ten110 / James BeardChArLIe trO tter LAUGhS A LO t When he tAlK s About  
onCe being nAmed the seCond meAnest Person in Chi-
CAgo (miChAel Jord An W on first PlACe And mAyor  
riChArd dAley CAme in third ). “It was a tongue-in-cheek 
thing,” Trotter says. “The list was people who are so focused, and 
so intent on what they do, they want to get it to the next level. Like 
me. I just want to elevate the game. Or like Mayor Daley, who simply 
wanted Chicago to be the best city in America. I’ve had CEOs come 
into the restaurant and tell me they were upset that they didn’t make 
the top ten.” Trotter assured his team at the restaurant that he’s aim-
ing for first place. 
 He even made a cameo appearance in the 1997 film, My Best 
Friend’s Wedding, screaming at an assistant, “I will kill your whole fam-
ily if you don’t get this right! I need this perfect!”—in a parody of 
a stereotypical angry chef. The light side of Trotter may come as a 
surprise to those outside his inner circle. He’s actually friendly and 
cracks jokes with a W. C. Fields sense of humor. But in the kitchen, 
Trotter is a tenacious, demanding perfectionist and some consider 
him America’s most formidable chef. 
 While he may be demanding, Trotter uses reason more than 
emotion to stimulate total commitment and motivation from staff 
members, expecting them to be as  focused and obsessed as he is. 
“Any more would almost be perverse. Less so, wouldn’t be enough,” 
he says. “That’s where you’re at a level in your craft, your technique, 
where you are able to do things spontaneously. That’s when we do 
our finest work—when we’re busy, at the most intense. We live for 
those moments. The difference between degrees of success is a fine 
line. We want to get to a point when we’re worried about compet-
ing against ourselves. It takes energy, stamina, experience to push  
it forward.”
 Trotter doesn’t mind failing in order to learn, and he  
demands as much from himself as he does from others: “I always say 
if it didn’t take two or three people to replace me when I left, then 
I’ve failed.” He claims his approach would be the same if he were a 
gardener or a mechanic. “It’s important to try as hard as you can. At the same time, human failings are appealing and beautiful because 
you learn so much from them. If one knows nothing but success, 
one can become complacent.”
 He’s occupied with details and observant of surroundings. 
When he interviews someone, he notices if the person puts the chair 
back in place. Small things tell him a lot about the person. Trotter 
believes if a potential employee is detail sensitive, he and his team 
can do anything with them.
 Despite the years of building Charlie Trotter’s into an iconic 
restaurant, Trotter doesn’t view the experience as work. “I’ve never 
worked in my life,” he says. “I’m the luckiest guy in the world. How 
could you not be psyched to be in a situation where you get to drink 
great wine every single day? You get to eat amazing food every single 
day? Who wouldn’t like that, right?”
 While Trotter has a keen attention to detail, the dishes at his 
eponymous restaurant are never overplated. Components are placed 
on the plate spontaneously, playfully, and decoratively. There’s  
always a flowing element to the dish. 
 An attention to detail was nurtured in Trotter before he  
began cooking. During high school in Chicago and his first year of 
college, Trotter’s first passion was gymnastics—an activity that no doubt created the balance he’s displayed throughout his career.
 It wasn’t until college, though, that Trotter discovered that 
cooking was also a sport. “It turned into a competition of who could 
make the most elaborate five courses.” His increasing interest in 
cooking and restaurants prompted him to take a year’s sabbatical 
from college, working as a waiter and bartender. 
 He did return to college, graduating with a degree in  
political science, and then took a three-month trip to Europe to 
eat and learn. Two experiences there helped form his career. The 
first, a meal at the late Fernand Point’s restaurant, La Pyramide, was 
magical. Three days later at Girardet in Switzerland, he had another 
transcendent experience. He says of his epiphany, “All four elements 
at Girardet were happening in equal measure—the cuisine, the wine, 
the service, and the overall ambience. It taught me that dining could 111 / Best of the Besthappen at a spiritual level. When attended to with extraordinary  
detail, the whole transcends each component beyond the sum of  
the parts.”
 On his return to the United States, Trotter went through a 
lot of jobs in restaurants. He approached each new employment with 
the plan that he would work at the establishment until he couldn’t 
learn any more. He worked at forty restaurants over a four-year  
period during his self-imposed training regimen.
 Trotter finally felt ready to roll out his own restaurant 
in 1987 with his father as his partner. “My father spent his youth  
hustling in pool halls, and started a jazz band called the Trotter  
Sextet. He played the trumpet and named me for Charlie Parker,” 
explains Trotter. “He worked for a little startup company called 
IBM, then ultimately opened his own executive recruitment firm 
with ninety offices around the world. People still come into the  
restaurant and tell me how grateful they are to my father, that his 
company helped to change their lives.”
 Trotter began catering elaborate dinners in people’s homes 
while the restaurant was under construction. “That was the best 
thing I could have done,” he notes, “because when Charlie Trotter’s 
opened its doors, there was already a groundswell of support from 
the catering customers. We wanted to create an experience so that 
when someone is leaving, they say: ‘We expected a lot and this sur-
passed all of those expectations.’ And that is the same mission today.”
 Observing Girardet, I learned not to allow flavor to escape. 
Use pristine products. Visually, you have to make love to food while 
you cook. If you can embrace that approach to things, then you can 
coax something to another level, you can really make it spectacular.”
 Some chefs devise signature dishes that become fixtures on 
their menus; people come to that restaurant to experience that dish. 
Then there are chefs like Girardet or David Bouley (the James Beard 
Foundation’s Outstanding Chef, 2000), who have no signature dish. 
Their menus are more fluid, not fixed, always changing. One day a 
set of ingredients is prepared. The next day the chefs might have the 
same ingredients, but do something else with them, emphasizing a different flavor. A year later with the same ingredients, it could be 
reinterpreted altogether.
 When Trotter thinks of John Coltrane, or of Miles Davis, he 
remembers that they never played a song the same way twice. “They might speed up the tempo, Coltrane would switch to a different sax, 
or Miles would mute his horn—the song would keep evolving and 
changing. This is more the style of Frédy Girardet. To cook like that, 
one must know combinations; one must have a true knowledge of 
food to be in the moment,” Trotter says. “Alfred Portale (the James 
Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef, 2006) once said, ‘Any young 
cook with a couple of squeeze bottles can be a dangerous charac-
ter.’ Similarly, you could have a young musician who is in a famous 
punk band, but could he play jazz music? He would not have enough 
knowledge of the fundamental elements of music.”
yOU Need t O mAKe A dIFFereNCe WIth WhA t yOU dO  
IN LIFe. thA t’S FrOm A PrOFeSSIONAL StANdPOINt, AN 
AeSthetIC StANdPOINt, ANd hOPeFULL y FrOm A PhILAN-
thrOPIC StANdPOINt, ANd IF y OU CAN WALK AWA y WIth 
thA t AS A teAm member theN y OU’ve LeArNed A LO t.” 
 He’s concerned about inspiring people to think, especially 
people who have worked for him. Trotter is also personally involved 
with his philanthropic Charlie Trotter Culinary Education Founda-
tion and other causes. He was awarded the Humanitarian of the Year 
award in 2005 by the International Association of Culinary Profes-
sionals. He invites groups of public high school students into his 
restaurant as part of his Excellence in Action Program three times 
per week: They eat a meal and are told how the food was prepared 
and the motivations of those preparing it, helping the students get 
in touch with their passions. “I do a lot because I want to and I’m in a position to do a lot,” Trotter says. “But I think anyone who is 
drawn to this world of food, wine, and service—it’s kind of in your 
nature to want to do things for people. You’re doing one of the most intimate things you can for another person in feeding them.”112 / James Beard
113 / Best of the BestTo make the asparagus
1. Trim asparagus, removing all tough fibers, reserving trimmings and spears separately. In a 
medium saucepan over high heat, bring 1 quart water and the trimmings to a boil. Cover and 
reduce heat; simmer for 20 minutes. Drain, reserving the stock. 
2. In an upright steamer, pour in enough asparagus stock to cover the bottom of the pot by  
1 to 2 inches. Add the asparagus spears, lemon juice, and olive oil. Bring to a simmer, cover, and steam for 10 minutes, or until the spears are soft. Remove the spears and keep warm or 
let cool completely. 
3. Prepare a medium fire in a grill. Grill the asparagus until lightly browned on all sides, 
about 3 minutes.
4. Toss half of the asparagus spears with the chopped chervil and parsley. Toss the other half 
with the blackberry powder.MARINATED BLACKBERRIES
1 tablespoon aged balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon olive oil
3 cups organic blackberries 
BLACKBERRY PURÉE
2 cups organic blackberries
3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons olive oil
Salt
GREENS
1 handful red ribbon sorrel (about 1 ounce)
1 handful nasturtium flowers (about 1 ounce)
1 handful chervil (about 1 ounce)ASPARAGUS
16 stalks white asparagus (about 1 pound)
Squirt fresh lemon juice2 tablespoons olive oil2 tablespoons chopped fresh chervil and fresh 
parley, combined
1 tablespoon blackberry powder
YOGURT
1 cup organic plain yogurt
1 tablespoon agave syrup
1 teaspoon smoked sea saltGREEN BELGIUM WHITE ASPARAGUS  with BLACKBERRIES
CONTINUED114 / James BeardTo make the yogurt
1. In a bowl, combine the yogurt, agave syrup, and smoked salt. 
To marinate the blackberries
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the vinegar and oil to make a vinaigrette. Add the black-
berries and marinate for a minimum of 5 minutes or up to 8 minutes. Drain the berries and 
reserve the vinaigrette.
To make the blackberry purée
1. Combine the blackberries, balsamic vinegar, and olive oil in a blender and purée until 
smooth. Season with salt.
To make the greens
1. In a large bowl, combine the sorrel, nasturtium, and chervil. 
To serve
1. Drizzle each plate with some of the blackberry purée. With a mixer, whip the yogurt until 
soft peaks form. Place a portion of the marinated berries on each plate. Top the berries with about 1 tablespoon of the yogurt. To each plate, add 2 each of the herbed asparagus spears 
and the asparagus spears tossed with blackberry powder. Toss the greens with the reserved vinaigrette and divide evenly among the plates. 
 
SERVES 4115 / Best of the Best2 shallots, minced
1 garlic clove, minced
1/2 cup black sesame seeds
2 cups vegetable stock  
CHICKEN LIVER PURÉE
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 pound chicken livers
1 cup peeled and chopped Granny Smith apples
1 onion, diced2 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 cup white wine
1 tablespoon chopped fresh thyme
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
SQUAB
1 whole squab (about 11/2 pounds)
1 tablespoon duck fat
1 tablespoon minced shallot  
Microgreens, for garnishSESAME SEED TUILES
1 cup unsalted butter1 cup sugar
2/3 cup glucose 
33/4 cups black sesame seeds
2/3 cup milk
RADISH CONFIT
1 bunch French breakfast radishes with greens
2 tablespoons duck fat
1 tablespoon annatto seeds
ANNATTO GASTRIQUE
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup annatto seeds
1 tablespoon freshly grated ginger1 teaspoon lemongrass paste
1/4 cup sherry vinegar  
BLACK SESAME PURÉE
2 tablespoons olive oil
3 honeycrisp apples, peeled and choppedSQUAB BREAST  with FRENCH BREAKFAST RADISH CONFIT,
BLACK SESAME PURÉE, and ANNATTO GASTRIQUE
CONTINUEDTo make the sesame seed tuiles
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Melt the butter, sugar, and glucose in a medium saucepan over 
medium heat, but do not let the mixture boil. Add the sesame seeds and milk. Spread the 
batter evenly into 3-inch circles spaced 1 inch apart on a baking sheet lined with a silicone 
baking mat. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Shape the warm tuiles and leave them to cool. 
To make the radish confit
1. Scrub the radishes and remove the radish greens, reserving 1/2  cup. Sous vide the radishes 
in the duck fat and the annatto at 185°F for 2 hours. (If the sous vide method is not available, 
slice the radishes and put them in a saucepan. Sprinkle with the annatto seeds and cover with 116 / James Beardthe duck fat. Cook uncovered over the lowest heat, keeping the temperature at about 200°F, 
for 2 hours. Using a slotted spoon, remove the radishes and place them in a crock. Increase 
the heat to medium-high and cook the fat until it stops sputtering, 5 to 10 minutes. Drain  
through a fine sieve, discarding the solids. Pour the fat into the crock, completely covering the  
radishes.) Refrigerate.
To make the annatto gastrique
1. Add the sugar to a saucepan over medium-low heat. When the sugar begins to caramel-
ize, add the annatto seeds and continue to cook, stirring continuously, until brown, 6 to  
7 minutes. Add the ginger and lemongrass and cook for 2 minutes. Deglaze with the vinegar. Simmer the mixture until reduced by half and strain, reserving the liquid.
To make the sesame purée
1. Warm the oil in a medium skillet or sauté pan over high heat. Add the apples, shallots, and 
garlic and sauté until the mixture is soft, about 10 minutes. Add the black sesame seeds and 
sauté until fragrant. Add the stock and simmer for 6 minutes. Purée the mixture in a high-
speed blender. Strain through a chinois. Reserve.
To make the chicken liver purée
1. Warm the oil in a large skillet or sauté pan over high heat. Add the chicken livers and sear 
until golden brown. Remove the livers and set aside. Add the apples, onion, and garlic to the 
skillet and sauté over medium heat until softened and translucent, about 4 minutes. Transfer 
the mixture to a high-speed blender. Deglaze the skillet with the wine and stir in the thyme. Add the seared livers and the wine to the blender and purée until the mixture is smooth. 
Season with salt and pepper. Reserve warm.
To make the squab
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Remove the legs of the squab and reserve for another use. Keep 
the wings attached to the breast. Season the squab with salt and pepper. In a medium skillet or sauté pan over high heat, sear the squab on all sides. Remove the squab with a slotted spoon 
and put it in a roasting pan. Roast for 10 minutes, to finish cooking.  
2. Remove the squab and let it rest for about 8 minutes while making the radish greens. In 
a skillet, warm the duck fat and sauté the reserved radish greens. Add the shallot, the radish 
confit, and the annatto gastrique. Sauté until the greens are slightly wilted, 1 to 2 minutes. 
Place the greens in the center of two serving plates. 
3. Slice the squab and arrange it on the greens. Coat it with jus from the roasting pan. Drizzle 
black sesame purée and chicken liver purée over each plate, garnish with a tuile, and serve.
 
SERVES 2119 / Best of the Best
2000
dAvId bOULey
ChAPtER  eleven120 / James BeardAS the ENFANT TERRIBLE OF the 1970S ANd 1980S Culi-
nAry front line, dAvid bouley trAined in frAnCe. Like 
many others, he worked for nothing (or, almost nothing but food) 
and staged with nouvelle cuisine masters, had his butt kicked, became 
a target for flying utensils, and was yelled at in languages not his own. 
 Making a fair trade, he came home with the self-confidence, 
discipline, knowledge, and techniques to begin transforming mod-
ern American cuisine. Armed with energy and little patience, he 
now had the chops to break tradition and drive a stake through old-
school perceptions of fine dining. Bouley was ready for the hard-scrabble climb to become what Charlie Trotter, the 1999 James 
Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef, called “the most influential 
chef in the United States.” 
 “A handsome young man came almost every day to my pastry 
shop in Santa Fe,” reminisces Michel Richard, now the renowned 
chef of Citronelle in Washington, D.C., and the 2007 James Beard 
Foundation Outstanding Chef. “His dream was to become a chef. 
When he wanted to go to France, I helped him find a job. Look 
at the results—he has become one of the top chefs of this country.” 
Richard is understandably proud, and Bouley is not the only chef  
he’s sponsored.
 Bouley is embarrassed when reminded that he was named 
one of People magazine’s “50 Most Beautiful People” in 1994. But as  
attractive as he is, his culinary style and talent supersede all else.
 Bouley was born and raised near Storrs, Connecticut. The 
second of nine children, he was influenced by farm life and his heri-
tage as the grandson of French émigrés. “My roots are definitely 
French,” he says. “I’m a cook of ingredients. I was raised on a farm.” 
 Uncertain about a career as a chef, he began working in res-
taurants simply because he needed the job, and he spent time in 
restaurants in Santa Fe, New Mexico, and Cape Cod, Massachusetts. 
After studying business at the Sorbonne, in Paris, though, he worked 
in restaurants in France and Switzerland.  
 In France, Bouley apprenticed, worked, and staged with some 
of Europe’s most acclaimed chefs, including Roger Vergé, Paul  Bocuse, Joël Robuchon, Gaston Lenôtre, and Frédy Girardet.  
Returning to the United States in 1980, he sharpened his skills in 
Manhattan’s leading restaurants of the time—Le Cirque, Le Périgord,  
and La Côte Basque—as well as working as sous-chef at Roger Vergé’s 
restaurant in San Francisco. 
 Teaming with Drew Nieporent, who he met in San Francisco,  
Bouley opened Montrachet in New York City in 1985. Bouley, 
seeking innovation, offered the first American dégustation menu— 
miniscule servings of a few exquisite bites designed, then refined, 
for flavor, texture, and anticipation. “We stimulate the palate, keep-
ing the momentum moving all the way through the experience,”  
explains Bouley. 
 Two years later, he took another path, opening Bouley. 
He established his signature style there: superior quality and tiny  
courses, with several different offerings inspired by an individual 
guest, the season, the mood, or the moment. 
 His new restaurant was immediately a premiere dining  
experience, celebrity-studded, and sparkling with four-star reviews. 
Glitterati swooned. Accolades, rankings, and multiple awards quickly  
followed. From 1991 until it closed in 1996, Bouley was voted 
the most popular restaurant in New York by the Zagat Survey and  
received an unparalleled food rating of 29 out of 30 in the last three 
years. The New York Times restaurant critic, Bryan Miller, gave Bouley  
four stars, writing, “David Bouley’s rabid zeal for fresh regional  
ingredients, his cerebral approach to textures and flavors, and his 
obvious delight in wowing customers make this one of the most  
exciting restaurants in New York City.” 
 Always a pioneer, Bouley worked with universities and farm-
ers to grow vegetables for and fostered the development of such  
artisanal produce as fingerling potatoes. His style of nutritious food 
balanced with beauty became paramount for him. “It’s a French  
approach to cooking that means a strong understanding of the his-
tory and the repertoire. It’s an interrelationship of products and a 
good understanding of technique, then employing all of them at the 
same time,” he explains.121 / Best of the Best He uses a minimum of cream and butter, relying instead on 
an almost worshipful approach to ingredients for depth and rich-
ness. He speaks with great feeling of food that goes straight “to your 
body and to your soul. Clean, pure food—as a chef, you can’t go 
beyond that. When you know that, and when you cook like that, is 
when you develop your own style. Nature can give you something 
so memorable.” Bouley’s extraordinary flavors are clear and exqui-sitely balanced. His seasoning is deft with complex creations in a  
classical simplicity.  
 Yet Bouley has always been provocative, following his own 
path, rather than one prescribed for a celebrity chef. What chef would 
successfully open for a time, then close dynamic restaurants once 
they were firmly established? One who is always impatient, exploring 
cuisines and ambiance, quite simply invigorated by challenges. One 
who proves his point, curiosity satisfied, or as the market changes, 
always moving ahead. Everything is built around his vision, powered 
by a restless intellect and persistence.
 Bouley doesn’t see obstacles. Focused and controlled, he 
melds them into opportunities. He listens carefully, selectively, and 
becomes totally absorbed. Then, intrigued, emboldened by a con-
cept, he breaks into action. “I need to have spontaneity and I work 
at the last minute,” Bouley confesses. “If I think too far ahead, I  
dilute myself.” He’s fast, and relatively fearless both in and out of 
the kitchen. He proved that racing motorcycles for Ducati in the 
1960s, and later blasting around Manhattan on a Harley.
 Central casting could have sent him onto a movie set as an 
eccentric chef. Protégés adore him and appreciate his quirks. Cooks 
who are puzzled by it all don’t make the cut. Bouley conceptualizes, 
cooks with jubilant abandon, and at the same time is a masterful 
technician. To work with Bouley is to be flexible, and most of all, 
intuitive, and in tune with him. At various times during service, he’ll 
change a recipe, or even change the menu. His spontaneity keeps his cooks excited and vigilant. “If they get complacent and into a rou-
tine groove, the food tastes bland. If the cook is alert, on edge, it is 
reflected in the food.” Bouley’s imagination is sparked in an extreme environ-
ment. If the pressure isn’t there, he cranks it up to another level.  
It stimulates the creativity he uses to refine everything when he  
relaxes enough to get into a mindset where most people stress or 
freeze. His technique is instinctive from decades of execution, and 
daring. “Why not?” he asks. “Why not now?” Never, “How?”
 The 2009 James Beard Foundation Outstanding Chef Dan 
Barber described the inner workings of the Bouley kitchen as “con-
trolled chaos.” The atmosphere was intense. It was also, as Barber 
remembers, confusing. “Around him, there is an orbit of madness.”
 Certainly nothing about him is static. Since the original 
Bouley opened in 1987, the resilient chef has developed and tested 
several concepts: Danube, an Austrian restaurant; then Secession, 
his New York bistro in the old Danube space; and the newest experi-
ment, Brushstroke, a Japanese notion on West Broadway. Since the 
destruction of September 11th in lower Manhattan in 2001, Bouley 
Bakery, part of the original restaurant group in TriBeCa, has moved 
to new quarters and been reimagined as a smaller, finer concept. 
His Upstairs restaurant has morphed into a more casual dining spot 
for baked goods and takeout. His aim is now more targeted, and  
objectives precise. Transformation is important to him.
 Bouley restaurant is his flagship, though, and the keystone 
of his TriBeCa epicurean empire. The original closed in 1996; the 
current incarnation opened in 2008. 
 The dramatic vaulted arches in the newest Bouley are a stun-
ning design built in tandem with his contractor brother, Martin. 
They discussed the possibilities, built it, ripped it out, and started 
over, doing it again and again until they were satisfied. That was 
the same aesthetic and willingness to revise that is echoed in his  
approach to his menus.
  The front doors, made of walnut, were salvaged from a 
sixteenth-century abbey in Provence, France. A master craftsman  
restored the doors and six eighteenth-century wooden beams across 
the lounge area ceiling. Through another master artisan, Bouley 
secured twenty tons of stone for the fireplace, walls, and staircases 122 / James Beardfrom a long-closed quarry in France used to build Versailles. Bou-
ley’s restaurant was the only project outside France to receive the 
stone. The meticulously cut stones were carefully arranged accord-
ing to their color, shape, and texture to replicate intricate, historical 
patterns. The vestibule is lined with narrow shelves of fresh apples, 
producing an orchard of fragrance, a hint of surprises ahead.
 Large Impressionist-style paintings, commissioned from 
artist Claude Chevally, grace the dining room. A massive limestone 
fireplace warms the interior, with tapered candles reflecting off 
vaulted gold-leafed ceilings and silvered walls. The room shimmers 
with lush fabrics, saturated colors, and lustrous glazed surfaces.  
 By contrast, his test kitchen research facility, with its state-
of-the-art equipment, provides ongoing stimulation and education 
for Bouley and his staff. On occasion, food enthusiasts are invited to 
spend time learning the alchemy in his private sanctum. Bouley col-
lects talent in many fields, bringing them together for collaboration. 
He invites other chefs, cheesemakers, vintners, and food experts 
from around the world for freewheeling brainstorming sessions of 
technique, new ingredients, and trends. A huge slate wall acts as a 
blackboard for doodling ideas. Oversized video screens project the 
work in progress, and an adjacent library contains fine culinary  
resources. 
 Bouley thrives on executing an idea. It could be a thought-
ful process or a whimsical one. His immaculate kitchen is calibrated 
to his pace. Cooks work at a custom-made Molteni, the Ferrari of 
gas stoves. He communicates at times without words, directing the 
brigade with a searing glare, an arched eyebrow, or an impatient  
gesture. 
 One now-famous chef chuckles as he recalls his first day in 
the kitchen when Bouley instructed him to talk to a fish. It was the 
chef’s metaphor to explain that every fish, like every person, is dif-
ferent. A cook must be sensitive to nuance and communication is 
essential, extending to all foods. He insists that cooks look at, and consider, each product. He tries to learn from every situation.  
Bouley says, “It’S AbOUt reAChING A POINt OF t AKING y OUr CLAS-
SICAL CULINAry INFLUeNCeS ANd deveLOPING A vOICe 
OF y OUr OWN. It IS AbOUt UNderS tANdING hOW t O  
eNhANCe the NAtUrAL beAUty OF A FrUIt Or A PIeCe OF 
FISh, rA ther thAN ObSCUrING It WIth INAPPrOPrIA te 
herbS ANd SPICeS.”
 The kitchen has always dictated his personal life, so it’s fit-
ting that Bouley met his wife on the day that Danube closed. Nicole 
Bartelme, a Rhode Island School of Design graduate, runs the phil-
anthropic organization TriBeCa Native, founded the TriBeCa Film 
Festival, and has a hand in Bouley’s restaurant projects. “David and I 
have very similar tastes, so we work very well together,” says the artist 
and photographer. 
 “Restaurants start when the guests sit down at the tables, and 
cooking can only be considered an art once the customer has fin-
ished the last bite,” Bouley believes, already thinking ahead to his next creation. 124 / James Beard
125 / Best of the Best1. Soften the gelatin sheets in cold water to cover, about 15 minutes.
2. To a medium saucepan over low heat, add the dashi, soy sauce, mirin, and sake. 
3. Remove the gelatin and squeeze out excess water. Add it to the dashi mixture and stir until 
the gelatin has melted. Pour the mixture into 9-by-5-inch terrine mold. Let it stand at room 
temperature until almost set.
4. Arrange the sea urchin on the surface of the gelatin in the terrine. Refrigerate until firm.
5. In a bowl, whisk together the crème fraîche, yuzu, shallots, and lime juice. Season with salt 
and pepper.
6. Put the chives in a blender or food processor and purée. With the motor running, add the 
oil to the blender in a stream. Continue to purée until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 
To assemble
1. Spoon the yuzu crème fraîche onto each serving plate. Unmold and cut the terrine into 
1-inch-thick slices and place 1 slice on each plate. Garnish with chive oil, kinome, and caviar 
and serve.
NOTE: Chive oil is another wonderful—and colorful—garnish for this dish. To make chive oil, 
purée 1 cup of coarsely chopped fresh chives in a blender or food processor. With the machine 
running, stream in 3/4 cup soybean or grapeseed oil and process until the mixture is smooth. 
Season the oil with salt and pepper to taste. Drizzle the oil over the plated terrine slices.
 
SERVES 61 teaspoon diced shallots 
1 teaspoon fresh lime juice 
1 bunch chivesSalt
Freshly ground black pepper
 
4 fresh kinome (prickly ash leaves)
2 ounces osetra caviar 3 sheets gelatin3 cups Dashi (page 127)
2
1/2 tablespoons soy sauce 
1 tablespoon mirin 
1 tablespoon sake 
6 ounces fresh shelled sea urchin
 
1 cup crème fraîche 
1 teaspoon yuzu juice SEA URCHIN TERRINE  with CRÉME FRAÎCHE,  
OESTRA CAVIAR, and FRESH KINOME126 / James BeardMUSHROOM PURÉE
11/2  to 2 tablespoons olive oil
1 pound porcini or royal trumpet mushrooms, 
thinly sliced
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper  
FLAN
3 small brown eggs1 cup Dashi (page 127)  
 
6 fresh kinome (prickly ash leaves)DASHI SAUCE
2 tablespoons kudzu powder
1 cup Dashi (page 127)
1 teaspoon mirin
1 tablespoon fresh ginger juice (squeezed from 
grated fresh ginger)
2 tablespoons light soy sauce
2 to 4 ounces jumbo lump crabmeat, plus extra 
for garnish
4 to 6 ounces black truffle pâtéPORCINI FLAN  with DUNGENESS CRAB and
BLACK TRUFFLE DASHI
To make the dashi sauce
1. In a small bowl, stir the kudzu into 1 ounce of cold water until smooth. In a small sauce-
pan, heat the dashi until warm and add the mirin. Add the kudzu mixture and stir until the 
mixture thickens. Add the ginger juice and soy sauce.
2. Add the crabmeat to a bowl and add dashi mixture to cover. In a second bowl, combine the 
remaining dashi mixture with the pâté. Cover and keep warm.
To make the mushroom purée
1. In a large sauté pan, warm the olive oil and cook the mushrooms until tender. Purée the 
mushrooms in a food processor and season with salt and pepper.
To make the flan
1. Preheat the oven to 325°F. Whisk the eggs, then pour in the dashi and blend. Pass the mix-
ture through a strainer, then divide it among six 4-ounce ramekins. Set the ramekins in a roasting pan or large baking dish and add hot water to the pan to come about halfway up the 
sides of the ramekins. Cover the pan and bake until the tip of a knife inserted into the center of the flans comes out clean, 8 to 10 minutes.127 / Best of the Best1. Fill a medium pot with the water and put in the kelp. Bring to just below a boil, about  
10 minutes. Remove the kombu before the water boils to avoid a strong odor. Test by inserting 
your thumbnail into the fleshiest part. If the flesh is tough, return the kombu to the pot for  
1 or 2 minutes. If necessary to prevent boiling, add 1/4 cup cold water. When the flesh is soft, 
remove the kombu and discard.
2. Bring the liquid to a boil. Add 1/4 cup cold water to bring the temperature down quickly 
and immediately add the bonito flakes. Bring to a boil again and immediately remove from 
the heat to avoid bitterness. Allow the flakes to settle, about 30 to 60 seconds. Skim foam. 
Filter the stock through a cheesecloth-lined sieve, reserving the bonito and kelp to make a secondary dashi, if desired. 
 
MAKES 1 QUART1 ounce giant kelp (kombu)
1 ounce dried bonito flakes (hana-katsuo)1 quart cold water, plus extra as needed  
(use Volvic bottled water for best results)DASHITo serve
1. Spread 2 tablespoons of the mushroom purée on each cooked flan. Add a 1-inch-thick 
layer of the dashi-crabmeat mixture on top of each flan and finish with a 1/4-inch-thick layer 
of the dashi-pâté mixture. Garnish with additional crabmeat and the kinome. Serve warm.
NOTE: If you do not eat crab, the recipe works very well with asparagus or corn instead. 
 
SERVES 6129 / Best of the Best
2001
PAtrICK O’CONNeLL
ChAPtER  twelve130 / James BeardIt’S NO t SUrPrISING thA t PA trICK O’CONNeLL’S C ollege  
mAJor WA s drAmA. fAns hAve C ome to thinK of him A s A 
theA triCAl ProduCer disguised A s A self- tAught Chef , 
rest AurA teur, And innKeePer. The late winemaker Robert 
Mondavi dubbed him the “pope of American cuisine.” In the Inter-
national Herald Tribune, Patricia Wells described him as “a rare chef with 
a sense of near-perfect taste, like a musician with perfect pitch.” 
 In the tiny historic town of Washington, Virginia, in the foot-
hills of the Blue Ridge Mountains, O’Connell has created his own 
joyous theater in the round, as chef/proprietor of The Inn at Little 
Washington. O’Connell’s idyllic set includes the kitchen, front and 
center, whereas most culinary crews work backstage. At The Inn, the 
cooks are outfitted in black jackets paired with O’Connell’s signa-
ture dalmatian-spot chef’s pants. He’s the only one wearing a white 
jacket, though he’s easy to notice because of his in-charge presence. 
His kitchen is dressed up in chandeliers, paintings, objets d’art, 
hand-painted Portuguese tiles, and two guest tables that act as ring-
side seats. An immense brass-trimmed Vulcan range with a brass and 
copper hood centers it all.
 For a man who began a catering business in the 1970s with 
a wood-burning stove and a cheap electric frying pan, the custom-
built French range is a monumental reminder of his success. It’s the 
pièce de résistance in a kitchen designed to be the restaurant’s heart—and 
its stage.
 O’Connell draws inspiration from unlikely sources. Early on, 
he envisioned life as a film, so in his imagination he creates cohe-
sive experiences, with a beginning, middle, and end. His showplace 
kitchen and entertaining concepts were influenced by two things: 
The dairy room at Windsor Castle and the movie The Cook, the Thief, His 
Wife, and Her Lover, by Peter Greenaway.
 In the Greenaway film, the kitchen was an otherworldly kind 
of heavenly environment. “They had a eunuch dishwasher singing 
in almost a falsetto. The space was both transporting and inspir-ing, with an element of the kitchen being a separate place,” says 
O’Connell. “We like to bring the kitchen into the experience here. It’s unique—it’s both like being in a private home and also going to 
the opera.”
 The charm and serenity of the town of Washington and the 
rolling Virginia countryside reflect O’Connell’s goal of offering vis-itors a healing, restorative escape—the preparation and presentation 
of food being but one element of the overall experience. He knows 
that even a small flaw can shatter an illusion, and he obsesses over 
producing a cocooned fantasy for guests. 
 “For me, food is pretty simple,” he says. “But it’s only one 
element of transporting people. 
I reAd reCeNtL y thA t FOOd ACtUALL y tASteS better ANd 
IS mOre eNJO yAbLe IN A SItUA tION OF t OtAL reLA xAtION, 
CALm, ANd trANqUILIty. I ALWA yS FeeL thA t IS the Key, 
PUttING PeOPLe IN thA t ex ACt FrAme OF mINd t O FULL y  
APPreCIA te It. ANd I thINK thA t thA t’S the GreA ter 
ChALLeNGe thAN JUS t PrOdUCING OUt StANdING FOOd.”
 “Patrick has been an amazing leader,” chef Daniel Boulud 
once said. Boulud first met O’Connell when Boulud arrived in 
Washington, D.C., as a private chef in 1980. “He was one of the 
first to create a standard here. He’s always given more than just good 
cooking. He makes people feel special.”
 Although O’Connell’s culinary concepts are what he calls 
“simple,” it would probably be more accurate to say that his instincts 
are keen, giving his guests the feeling of utter delight. 
 “For years people would ask, ‘What kind of food do you serve 
in your restaurant?’ and it drove me crazy because they were look-ing for a one- or two-word handle. They were able to bring all their 
preconceptions or prejudices into the picture so I realized that it was 
fraught with a kind of hex no matter what you said, nothing worked. 
If you said ‘American’ it either meant nothing, or meatloaf and fried 
chicken,” he says. “I finally found three words that satisfied me, that 
illustrated the point, and they are ‘refined American cuisine.’”131 / Best of the Best By taking popular childhood dishes and making them contem-
porary, O’Connell creates a culinary link between past and future. His  
approach to cooking reflects a belief in the cuisine of today—healthy, 
eclectic, imaginative, unrestricted by ethnic boundaries, and ever 
evolving, while paying homage to classical French foundations. 
 “Such an approach also allows us to be playful, and that’s 
something that was never permitted before, particularly by Euro-
pean culinary culture. It had to be taken very seriously,” he says. “I 
think humor is a very powerful tool, and you can bring the dishes 
forward with a twist. I think it’s so easy to do the predictable, but 
what I like to do is master the expected and then introduce a note of 
startling unexpectedness.” 
 O’Connell realized after spending time in Europe that 
American culture had finally reached a crossroads where there were 
actually two cuisines—home cooking and haute cuisine. “My frustra-
tion always was that we were programmed to believe that the French 
had the right to revere their childhood food memories of sausage 
from Lyon or ham from Bayonne and we felt that we should ridicule 
our own. I think all of our personal food memories are just as legiti-
mate and viable and they should be treasured and revered.” 
 So just how does O’Connell revere the childhood foods of 
Americans? He explains the dichotomy of his creations: “What I’ve 
been attempting to do for all these years is take my flavor memories, bring them forward, and turn them into something that could be laid 
side-by-side with the greatest dishes from the greatest restaurants in 
Europe. So they could be in harmony and be at one with them. The 
challenge for American chefs is to continue to do that and not turn 
our backs on mom’s pineapple upside-down cake—all the tastes that 
were a part of our childhoods that we can use to build upon.” 
 O’Connell relishes entertaining as an occasion for personal 
flourishes that bring together food, ambiance, and performance. 
When he produces an event, he orchestrates and choreographs all 
the details. He holds dress rehearsals with the kitchen and service 
staff. The dishes are prepared and served as practice so that glitches 
can be worked out and refinements made to heighten the experience  for the guests. “I recommend that home cooks do this a week before 
having a party. It may seem excessive, but it gets rid of the stress of 
wondering what will work and what won’t,” he says. “A host or host-
ess who’s having fifty people over knows about planning,” he says. 
“You still worry how it’s all going to come together.” The key is mas-
tery, and mastery gives the cook confidence, he believes. “I suggest 
choosing a three-course menu. Make it once a week on a Sunday 
afternoon. After repetition, that menu can be put together quickly,” 
says O’Connell. “It will be refined and honed until no one can do 
it better. And the cook is truly a master of that and it’s their enter-
taining menu. Then, they can branch off, and can add things, but it 
gives them an incredible foundation. It is what I did.” 
 O’Connell grew up in Washington, D.C., and made vis-
its to the Virginia countryside with his family. After finishing col-
lege, he acted on the advice of a family friend who suggested that he 
buy some property before embarking on his European travels so he 
would have something to which he could return. That property was a 
tiny, unheated mountain shack where it all began. O’Connell came 
home, moved in, and taught himself to cook and bake on his wood- 
burning stove.
 In the 1970s, O’Connell and a former partner began cater-
ing for well-to-do families in the Shenandoah Valley. But drawing 
on his experiences abroad, O’Connell developed a vision of creat-
ing a luxurious European-style country inn that would serve refined 
American cuisine in a unique setting. When word got around town 
that O’Connell planned to open a restaurant, no one knew what to 
expect. The general attitude was that it was folly. If you had any sense 
or business acumen, why would you choose the middle of nowhere 
as a location? Nonetheless, O’Connell’s aim was high and sure when 
he began the seven-year process required to open the restaurant. 
“The constant refrain was ‘Who’s coming?’” remembers O’Connell. “And I heard it over and over again. I just didn’t think about who was 
coming, I just thought people would come.” 
 When The Inn at Little Washington opened in 1978, it was 
housed in a one-time garage—the rent was $200 a month. “The 132 / James Beardstakes then were a little different than they are now,” O’Connell 
acknowledges. “The challenge was keeping hot food hot and cold 
food cold. And if you did that and were nice to people, they were 
usually ever so grateful. So astonishing them then and astonishing 
them now is two totally different challenges.”
 Guests streamed in and they continue to do so. First ladies, 
Supreme Court justices, celebrities, and culinary sophisticates make 
the journey to The Inn for the grace, the ambiance, and the food. 
“People who come here—and they come here, no question—they get 
off the main road from the city, and the countryside is a culture 
shock, but in a charming, delightful sort of way,” he says. “It actu-
ally accentuates the distance between their world and this world. So 
it’s more fun to kind of create an oasis and fantasy and ecstasy in  
these surroundings.”
 From the very beginning, decades before the term “locavore” 
was coined, O’Connell forged alliances with local growers and arti-
sans. He cultivated relationships with neighbors—many with strong 
connections to the land and a heritage of self-sufficiency—who 
could supply him with the products he needed. These were socially 
responsible actions, but also necessary ones—he insisted on using 
only the finest, freshest foods, but back then, the only thing deliv-
ered was milk, and restaurant suppliers wouldn’t drive out to such a 
remote little town. 
 Shortly after the restaurant’s opening, a Washington, D.C., 
newspaper declared it the best restaurant in a 150-mile radius. “That 
was frightening,” admits O’Connell. “Oddly enough, the reviewer in 
his opening line said, ‘Every once in a while a restaurant comes along 
that’s so good you worry,’ and I think he could imagine the public’s 
reaction when he gave it a rave review. So for ten years, I didn’t really 
feel like I had come up for air. I just cooked as fast as I could.” 
 There’s been a lot of cooking in O’Connell’s kitchen since 
then, and there’s much more to come. How can someone emulate this kind of personal and professional fulfillment?
 “I absorbed everything on the job,” he emphasizes. “But hav-
ing the great opportunity early on to visit some of the best restaurants  in the world and be able to feel it and work toward replicating that 
feeling was enormously useful.” O’Connell continues quarterly 
visits to Europe, opportunities for further exposure, as American 
Culinary Ambassador for the prestigious Relais & Châteaux, an  
organization of the world’s finest restaurants and hotels. He’s cur-
rently president of the United States chapter.
 “Our industry has just grown and accelerated to the point 
where it’s on an incredible fast track, and, in spite of the economy, 
people are working incredibly hard and creatively. And there’s new-
ness everywhere,” he observes. “We’re probably working harder now 
than we’ve ever worked and in a more focused way, to continue to 
refine every aspect. It’s not getting easier.”
 With The Inn at Little Washington, O’Connell never antici-
pated an easy path, but his business adventures wound up embracing 
a town and today his pioneering efforts are legendary. The town was 
just about bankrupt when The Inn opened. Now, finances are healthy, 
and the majority of the town’s budget is based on local meals and 
lodging tax generated by The Inn. Staffed with 108 employees, The 
Inn is also a major employer. On a busy evening, the restaurant may 
serve 200 guests, more than the town’s population of 183 residents.
 O’Connell continues his community involvement, currently 
serving as Chairman of the Architectural Review Board for the town 
council. He plans to further renovate and add to The Inn. System- 
atically acquiring and restoring his properties, he has made an  
addition of nearly twenty-five acres of meadow with views of the Blue 
Ridge Mountains. He hopes to eventually add orchards and livestock 
to provide food for the restaurant. 
 It’s no exaggeration to say that O’Connell put the town of 
Washington, Virginia, on the culinary map.134 / James Beard
135 / Best of the Best1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard
11/2 teaspoons w orcestershire sauce
1 ounce Parmigiano-Reggiano, grated1
1/2 garlic cloves, minced
1 anchovy fillet, minced 
Pinch of cayenne pepper
1/3 cup olive oil 
1/4 cup salad oil
 
CAESAR SALAD ICE CREAM
7 large egg yolks
1/3 cup sugar
41/3 cups whole milk
3/4 cup powdered milk 
11/3 cups freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
4 anchovy fillets, minced2 tablespoons minced garlicworcestershire sauce, for seasoning
Dijon mustard, for seasoning 
GARNISHES
Red pearl onions, thinly sliced into roundsCapers
Chives, finely chopped
Baby arugula4 to 6 hearts of romaine leaves
Parmigiano-Reggiano, gratedPESTO
2 cups packed fresh basil
1/4 cup pine nuts
1/4 cup fresh parsley
2 garlic cloves
3/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano
Fresh lemon juice
Sugarkosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper 
CROUTONS
2 cups grapeseed oil1 garlic clove
1 sprig fresh rosemary
6 baguette slices, cut into 1-inch cubes  
(about 2 cups) 
LAMB CARPACCIO
1 to 11/2 pounds lamb loin 
1/2 cup dried oregano
1/2 cup dried thyme
1/2 cup dried basil
1/2 cup dried tarragon
Grapeseed oil, for searing
 
CAESAR DRESSING
1 large egg yolk
6 tablespoons red wine vinegarCARPACCIO  of HERB-CRUSTED BABY LAMB with 
CAESAR SALAD ICE CREAM
CONTINUED136 / James BeardTo make the pesto
1. In a blender or food processor, combine the basil, pine nuts, parsley, and garlic. Purée until 
smooth. Add the oil in a thin stream. Add the Parmigiano-Reggiano. Press through a fine-
mesh strainer, then season with the lemon juice, sugar, salt, and pepper. Reserve, chilled.
To make the croutons
1. In a heavy 1-quart saucepan over high heat, warm the grapeseed oil. Add the garlic to infuse  
the oil. When the garlic is brown, remove and discard. Fry the rosemary sprig for 30 to  
45 seconds, remove, and discard. Fry the croutons for 2 to 3 minutes, or until golden.  
Remove the croutons, drain on towels, and season with salt. Reserve warm.
To make the lamb
1. Remove all visible sinew and fat from the lamb loin. Season with salt and pepper. Let rest 
for 15 minutes. In a small bowl, combine the herbs. Coat the loin with the herb mixture. To a large heavy-bottomed skillet over high heat, add the grapeseed oil to a depth of 
1/4 inch. Heat 
the oil and evenly sear the lamb. Place it on a cooling rack. Once cooled, roll the loin tightly in plastic wrap to form a sausage shape. Freeze until ready to slice. 
To make the dressing
1. Combine the yolk, vinegar, lemon juice, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, Parmigiano-  
Reggiano, garlic, anchovies, and cayenne in a food processor or blender. With the motor running, add the oils in a thin stream to until desired thickness is reached. Season with salt 
and pepper. Reserve, chilled.
To make the ice cream
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the yolks and sugar. In a large heavy saucepan over high heat, 
bring the milk, powdered milk, Parmigiano-Reggiano, anchovies, and garlic to a boil. Add 
the mixture to the yolks, stirring constantly. Return the mixture to the saucepan and cook 
over low heat, stirring until thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Remove from the heat and let cool. Season to taste with Worcestershire sauce, mustard, salt, and pepper. 
2. Freeze in an ice cream maker according to manufacturer’s directions. Portion the ice 
cream into 1/2-ounce round molds, or using an ice cream scoop, form small balls. Put on a 
tray in the freezer until ready to serve.
To plate
1. Cut the lamb paper-thin and place a portion on each plate. Top with the onion, capers, 
chives, croutons, and arugula. In a medium bowl, coat the lettuce with dressing and toss with 
Parmigiano-Reggiano. Place the lettuce on the plates. Set a few balls of ice cream on top.
 
SERVES 4 TO 6137 / Best of the BestENDIVE
3 heads yellow endive
1 tablespoon olive oil
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
 
PARMIGIANO-REGGIANO FROTH
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano 
11/2 teaspoons soy lecithin 
 
SCALLOPS
2 tablespoons clarified butter6 Maine diver scallops
 
GARNISHES
Black peppercorns, freshly crackedRed peppercorns, freshly cracked
Celery heart leavesBlack truffle LEEK PURÉE
1 cup fresh spinach1 cup sliced leek whites 
1/4 cup peeled and finely diced russet potato
kosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepperSugar
VEAL SAUCE
1 cup veal stock
1/2 cup chicken stock
 
RICE VINEGAR SYRUP
1/4 cup rice vinegar
1/4 cup sugar 
 PAN-SEARED MAINE DIVER SCALLOPS  with CARAMELIZED  
ENDIVE, LEEK PURÉE,  and SHAVED BLACK TRUFFLE
CONTINUEDTo make the leek purée
1. In a 1-quart saucepan of boiling water, blanch the spinach for 30 seconds. Remove, reserv-
ing the boiling water, and immediately plunge into ice water. Let cool, remove from the ice 
water, and dry the spinach on clean towels. 
2. Blanch the leeks in the same water for 30 seconds. Remove, reserving the boiling water, 
plunge into the ice water. Let cool, drain, and dry the leeks.
3. Blanch the potato in the same until fully tender. Drain.
4. Purée the spinach, leek, and potato with a cube of ice in a blender or food processor for  
1 to 2 minutes. Pass the mixture through a fine-mesh strainer and return it to the blender or processor. Season with salt, pepper, and sugar.138 / James Beard
139 / Best of the BestTo make the veal sauce
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, simmer the veal stock until reduced by half, 
about 30 minutes. Add the chicken stock and reduce this now by one half to 1/2 cup, simmer-
ing about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and let the sauce cool to room temperature. 
Pour it into a squeeze bottle and reserve.
To make the rice vinegar syrup
1. Combine the vinegar and sugar in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil. Immediately 
remove from the heat and reserve. 
To make the endive
1. Remove the outer leaves of the endive and cut each head in half lengthwise. Score each half 
at the base multiple times with a paring knife. In a large skillet or sauté pan over high heat, warm the oil. Sear the endive face down. Lower the heat to medium and add 
1/2 cup of the  
rice vinegar syrup and the butter. Continue to cook until a light glaze forms that coats  
the endive, 2 to 3 minutes. The leaves should be soft and “fanable” while leaving a “bite” at the  
heart. Reserve warm.
To make the froth
1. Combine 1/2 cup water and the butter in a small saucepan. Heat, but do not boil. Remove 
from the heat. Add the Parmigiano-Reggiano and soy lecithin. Mix with a hand blender. Adjust the seasoning with salt. Reserve at room temperature. 
To make the scallops
1. In a medium skillet or sauté pan over high heat, add the clarified butter and scallops. Sear 
until golden brown and caramelized, 2 to 3 minutes per side. Transfer the scallops to a plate and let rest for 2 minutes. 
To plate
1. Using a spoon or small ladle, spread 2 tablespoons leek purée in a wide stripe down the 
center of each plate and top with 1 1/2 teaspoons veal sauce. Fan an endive half over the purée. 
Cut the scallops horizontally into 3 equal parts and fan one scallop onto the sauce on each plate. Add Parmigiano-Reggiano froth to the plates around the scallops. Sprinkle pepper-
corns over the plate. Place 3 to 5 celery leaves across the plate and shave black truffle over each scallop. Serve immediately.
 
SERVES 6141 / Best of the Best
2002
LIdIA mA ttICChIO bAS tIANICh
ChAPtER  thirteen142 / James Beard
143 / Best of the BestLIdIA mAttICChIO bAS tIANICh is A lAdy to be reCK oned  
With. her life is A story of An itAliAn-born immigrAnt  
embrACing A foreign lAnd , And then AChieving fAme  
And AdulA tion. The young girl who came here from post–World 
War II Italy brought with her an appreciation of regional Italian 
cooking and culture. Her culinary knowledge is a gift that she now 
shares with millions of Americans through her Emmy-nominated 
television series and best-selling books. 
 Bastianich is the matriarch of a business built on passion. She 
is a restaurateur, chef, television celebrity, and has even been the 
Grand Marshal of the Columbus Day Parade in New York City. But 
the titles that matter most to her are daughter, mother, and grand-
mother. “My mother lives with me; she’s ninety. My daughter lives 
two blocks away. She has two kids. My son has three kids. There’s 
always four generations at my house and, of course, they always ask, 
‘What are we going to eat?’” 
 Her two children also play an integral role in the Bastianich  
businesses and participate in expanding the family empire. She 
partnered with son Joseph in opening his first restaurant, Becco, 
in Manhattan. He also operates three Bastianich wineries in Italy:  
Bastianich winery in Friuli, La Mozza vineyards in Tuscany, and  
Agricola Brandini in Piedmont. Joe also co-wrote two award- 
winning books and received two James Beard awards himself, one for 
wine and the other in partnership with Mario Batali for Babbo, as 
restaurant of the year. Lidia and Joe are also partners in Lidia’s Italy restaurants in Kansas City and Pittsburgh. 
 Bastianich’s daughter, Tanya Bastianich Manuali, holds a 
doctorate in Renaissance history from Oxford, and partners with 
her mother in Esperienze Italiane, a travel agency specializing in 
food, wine, and art tours. They work together on the television  
series, books, and a product line. “We’re all together in business and 
it’s a family business,” Bastianich explains. 
 Lidia’s voyage from Italy to the United States was difficult. 
She was born in 1947 in Istria, a peninsula now part of Croatia,  
about ninety miles northeast of Venice, an area that fell under  communist rule after the war. She fled with her parents and her 
brother, Franco, to Trieste, Italy, and lived for two years with other 
displaced families in a refugee camp at the site of a former Nazi con-centration camp. “It was really hard,” she says. “There weren’t any 
jobs, and there wasn’t enough of anything to go around. So my family 
thought that the best thing would be for us to come to the New World.”
 A special provision for political refugees allowed the family 
to emigrate to the United States in 1958 with the help of Catholic 
Charities in New York. “We had no one. They found a home for us. 
They found a job for my father.”
 The family settled in North Bergen, New Jersey, and Bastian-
ich began working in bakeries and restaurants to pay for her educa-
tion. Although she was studying science, theology, and chemistry with 
hopes of pursuing a medical career, cooking changed that future.
 The mainly self-taught dynamo opened her first restaurant 
with no prior business experience. As a restaurant chef, Bastianich 
became one of the first women to break into what had been tradi-
tionally a male field.
 Bastianich had two successful restaurants in Queens, New 
York, by 1971, but closed those restaurants to concentrate on one 
operation. A $750,000 renovation in 1981 turned a Manhattan 
brownstone into Felidia Ristorante, which featured Bastianich’s  
beloved regional Italian foods. Felidia Ristorante gave Bastianich the 
chance to reach back to her childhood for cooking memories of her 
tight-knit family. Food was always the center of her existence and tied her to her grandparents’ farm on the outskirts of Istria.
 “Understanding food from the ground is the essence of 
the food and the flavors. It’s not about me inventing. Nature does that. It’s about me exalting it and having the good sense to harvest 
it at the perfect time, the perfect maturity, to serve it at the perfect  
temperature—not cold from the refrigerator, when all the flavors 
are locked. That’s what nature has taught me. Going up on a cherry 
tree and just picking the ripest cherries, the ones that had a little nip 
from a bird. I knew that that was the sweetest one because the birds 
knew better. We climbed fig trees and when the figs were kind of 144 / James Bearddrooping and had little stretch marks with just a drop of honey com-
ing out of the end, we just knew that those were the best ones. These 
are the flavors I always try to recapture or refine.” She explains, “I’ve 
brought these memories with me to America and they linger on. It 
is a way of connecting with my roots, and being a part of the family 
left behind. Food is such a communicator, such an important part 
of me, of my story. And I continue to communicate with it.”
 Felidia Ristorante opened to widespread critical acclaim and 
quickly received a three-star review from the New York Times. “I just did 
what we cook at home and people loved it,” she says, with character-
istic modesty. The authentic flavors from her native region changed 
New Yorkers’ views of Italian cuisine. At the same time, it enabled 
Bastianich to establish a flourishing food and entertainment busi-
ness. “I am the perfect example,” she says, “that if you give somebody 
a chance, especially here in America, one can find the way.”
 Her businesses have also been built through friendships. 
James Beard often dined at Felidia after the restaurant’s opening. “I 
would cook for him, and serve him. We would sit at the table together,” 
Bastianich remembers. She is still fascinated by just how big he was, 
how hungry he was, and his vast knowledge. “He was instrumental in  
mobilizing, if you will, the whole movement of food enjoyment, 
cooking, and sharing.” When he died and the idea emerged of keep-
ing his memory and his home alive, Bastianich contributed to the 
James Beard Foundation and continues to support the organization.
 Julia Child gave Bastianich her first national television  
exposure. She was introduced as part of the 1993 series “Julia Child: 
Cooking with Master Chefs,” taped in Child’s kitchen, an experience 
that twice provided Bastianich lessons in media presentation. “She 
spoke to engage the audience,” Lidia observed. “It wasn’t about her.” 
 The setting and the style was a formula Bastianich adopted for 
her own PBS programs. She also attributes some of her mannerisms on 
TV and techniques in book writing to Child. As a result, she’s natural 
and warm, and makes the viewer or reader feel welcome to drop into 
her kitchen for a cappuccino and to chat about dinner. Bastianich’s  instructions are clear and thoughtful, and her teaching focuses on the 
process: “It is about people successfully using the recipes.” 
 But cooking is not just a process to Bastianich. 
“FOOd IS A WAy OF CONNeCtING WIth the PeOPLe WhO  
SUrrOUNd US. thrOUGh It, We COmmUNICA te emO tIONS  
LIKe LOve, COmPASSION, ANd UNderS tANdING, ANd there 
IS NO better OPPOrtUNIty t O COmmUNICA te WIth OUr 
ChILdreN thAN A t the t AbLe. 
It’s where we can discuss our values as individuals, as a family, and as 
a part of the world.”
 Bastianich believes that today’s cooks could learn from the 
way previous generations subsisted. “As overconsumption and greed 
have come to haunt us, now is a time for reflection. We should 
be looking back at the generations before us to understand their  
approach to the table. Growing food, shepherding animals, foraging 
for the gifts of nature are all part of respecting food. Nothing needs 
to be wasted.” She adds, “Respect for the food we prepare also leads to a more sensible and balanced intake of proteins, legumes, and 
vegetables. So waste not, want not, and make it delicious!”
 Bastianich often returns to Italy to research recipes, cooking 
techniques, and ingredients to broaden her knowledge. “My recipes 
are all part of the Italian patrimony. And my trips to Italy, every 
single time, reveal to me mounds of recipes. There’s plenty to be 
had there,” she notes.
 Recently, she joined her son and Mario Batali in the Eataly 
venture, heading up the cooking school there—La Scuola di Eataly. 
 The proud grandmother of five believes that it’s not only 
the food on the table that makes the meal; people who join around the table bring the meal to life. Tutti a tavola a mangiare!—Everybody  
to the table to eat!—is a refrain that has been repeated in Italian 
households for centuries.146 / James Beard
147 / Best of the Best1/2 teaspoon coarse sea salt or kosher salt,  
plus salt for cooking pasta 
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus more if needed
1 pound paccheri pasta
1 pound small shrimp, peeled and deveined 
1/2 cup grated fresh Grana Padano or  
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese21/2 cups very ripe cherry tomatoes  
(about 12 ounces) 
1/3 cup whole almonds, lightly toasted 
12 large fresh whole basil leaves 1 plump garlic clove, crushed and peeled 
1/4 teaspoon pepperoncini flakes PACCHERI with ANNA SANTORO’S PESTO TRAPANESE
Paccheri al Pesto Trapanese di Anna Santoro
1. To the bowl of a food processor or blender jar, add the tomatoes, almonds, basil, garlic, 
pepperoncini, and salt. Purée, scraping down the sides. With the machine running, stream 
in the oil, emulsifying the purée into a thick pesto. Adjust the seasoning. 
2. Cook the paccheri according to the package directions. 
3. When the pasta is al dente, add the shrimp, stir, and turn off the heat. Let stand for 1 minute.  
Drain the paccheri, reserving 1/2 cup of the cooking water. Return the pasta and shrimp to 
the pot and fold in the pesto until all the pasta is coated with the pesto. Optionally, drizzle in extra-virgin olive oil and some of the reserved pasta water, if needed. Sprinkle with the 
cheese and toss. Serve immediately in warmed bowls. 
 
SERVES 4 TO 6148 / James Beard11/2 teaspoons kosher salt, divided 
1/2 teaspoon pepperoncini flakes
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice 
1 tablespoon chopped fresh italian parsley 2 pounds cleaned calamari, whole bodies and 
tentacles, skin on or off
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil, divided 
6 garlic cloves, crushed SPICY CALAMARI  Calamari Piccanti
1. To a large bowl, add the calamari, 1/2 cup of the oil, the garlic, 1 teaspoon of the salt, and 
the pepperoncini. Toss to coat and marinate at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes. 
2. To make the dressing, in a small bowl, whisk the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil, the lemon 
juice, remaining 1/2 teaspoon salt, and the parsley until emulsified. 
3. Drain the calamari briefly. 
4. In a 12-inch sauté pan or skillet over high heat, sear the calamari in batches, turning 
several times until crispy with caramelized edges, about 2 minutes. The skin will darken to 
a deep-reddish hue. Arrange on a warmed platter to reserve while searing the remainder of 
the calamari. 
5. When all the calamari are plated, drizzle with the dressing. Serve immediately.
 
SERVES 6149 / Best of the Best2 tablespoons grated lemon zest 
40 ladyfingers, preferably imported  
italian Savoiardi, or more as needed 
Candied kumquats, for garnish (optional)
Fine shreds of lemon zest, for garnish5 large eggs 1 cup sugar, divided 
1
1/2 cups limoncello liqueur, divided 
3/4 cup fresh lemon juice 
2 cups mascarpone cheese,  
at room temperature (about 1 pound)LIMONCELLO TIRAMISÙ
CONTINUEDTo make the zabaglione base
1. Separate the eggs, putting the yolks into the top of a double boiler or in a large bowl. 
Reserve the whites for whipping. Beat the yolks with 1/4 cup of the sugar and 1/2 cup of the 
limoncello. Mix well.
2. Heat water in a saucepan to a steady simmer. Set the yolks over the simmering water, 
whisking constantly and scraping the sides, until the egg mixture expands to a frothy sponge,  
5 minutes or longer. When the sponge has thickened enough to form ribbons, remove and 
let it cool.
To make the tiramisù
1. To a large saucepan over high heat, add the remaining 1 cup limoncello, the lemon juice,  
1 cup water, and 1/2 cup of the sugar. Boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar, for 5 minutes. Let 
the syrup cool completely.
2. In another large bowl, stir the mascarpone with a wooden spoon to soften. Add the lemon 
zest and beat until light and creamy. 
3. Using a mixer or by hand, whip the egg whites with the remaining 1/4 cup sugar until the egg 
whites hold moderately firm peaks.150 / James Beard
151 / Best of the Best4. When the zabaglione is cooled, scrape one third of it over the mascarpone and fold it 
in with a large rubber spatula. Fold in the rest of the zabaglione in 2 or 3 additions. Fold 
in the egg whites in several additions, until the limoncello-mascarpone cream is light and 
evenly blended. 
5. Into a 9-by-13-inch glass baking dish, pour 1/4 inch cooled syrup. Working one at a time, 
roll 20 of the ladyfingers quickly in the syrup and place them in the dish, arranging in neat, 
tight rows. They should fill the bottom of the dish completely. 
6. Cover with half of the limoncello-mascarpone cream. Dip the remaining ladyfingers in 
syrup and arrange a second layer of ladyfingers in the dish. Cover with the remaining cream.
7. Smooth the cream with a spatula and seal the tiramisù airtight in plastic wrap. Refrigerate 
for 6 hours or freeze for 2 hours. It may be kept in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. 
To plate
1. To serve, cut the tiramisù into squares or use a 2- to 2 1/2-inch ring mold to cut out circular 
portions. Garnish each serving with candied kumquats, if using, and shreds of lemon zest. 
 
SERVES 12 OR MORE153 / Best of the Best
2003
erIC rIPert
ChAPtER  fourteen154 / James BeardA FOrtUNe- teLLer onCe Promised eriC riPert thA t he 
Would somed Ay be A Chef in A greA t rest AurAnt . 
Perhaps it’s no coincidence, then, that the world’s highest- 
profile seafood chef has a cat named Mystic. 
 Ripert is executive chef and co-owner of the Manhattan res-
taurant Le Bernardin. The restaurant exemplifies the international 
standard of progressive French seafood. He’s content, watching his 
kitchen move in Zen-like harmony, a graceful corps de ballet of 
cooks. Focused tranquility is important to someone who has prac-
ticed Buddhism for more than twenty years. 
 Fate intervened earlier than predicted, though. He bought a 
book about Buddhism from a train station rack. Intrigued, he began 
his travels toward self-discovery and a meteoric rise as a chef. 
 “The way I see life, everything is spiritual,” he says. “We live 
on Earth, we are omnivores, the nature of human beings is to eat 
meat and fruits and vegetables, and therefore we have to kill animals. 
I don’t have a problem with that. But it’s a sacred moment.” 
 As an owner of an exalted establishment that elevates fish to 
haute cuisine standards, does Ripert fish? “No,” he smiles with a 
Gallic shrug. He does a much better job of cooking them.
 Ripert buoyantly followed a vocational rather than a scholas-
tic career. “Why did I need to know when the train leaves Paris and  
another one leaves Lyon?” he asks. “And, where are they going to 
cross each other? I could have cared less about that train,” he laughs. 
“I care about food.”
 The chef first learned to cook from his grandmother,  
absorbing her Mediterranean style. He then entered culinary school 
when he was fifteen in Perpignan, France, not far from the family 
home in Andorra, Spain.
 Following graduation, Ripert sent letters to all the three-star 
Michelin restaurants in France. He received only one response: a 
“no” from Maxim’s. Several weeks later, though, someone from the 
legendary, 400-year-old restaurant La Tour d’Argent called on a 
Friday. Ripert was in Paris by Monday morning. He started in garde-
manger, running home at lunchtime to practice his knife skills. In 1984 he joined Joël Robuchon at Jamin, another three-
star Michelin restaurant in Paris. At Jamin, Ripert worked his way up 
to chef poissonnier–fish chef, with a brief hiatus for military duty. “You 
need to be a good technician,” he says of cooking seafood. “I love 
how very delicate fish is—you have to treat it in a very subtle way.” 
 Robuchon was a magnificent influence on Ripert, who 
learned discipline and structure in the older man’s kitchen. The 
protégé was rewarded with irresistible opportunities.
 Robuchon helped Ripert move to the United States in 1989 
as sous-chef with the late Jean-Louis Palladin at the Watergate  
Hotel in Washington, D.C. Palladin taught Ripert to have fun in 
a less formal kitchen and to riff on the classics. For a chef trained 
in the dogma of French recipes, Palladin’s approach was liberating. 
“He pushed me to kill the fear to express myself,” Ripert acknowl-
edges. ‘’He freed my mind.” 
 Two years later, he moved to New York as a sous-chef under 
David Bouley, but quickly went to Le Bernardin. There he became 
the chef, working with Gilbert Le Coze and Maguy Le Coze, the 
restaurant’s glamorous brother and sister team. A close friendship 
with Gilbert gave Ripert carte blanche as chef, although Gilbert told 
him “to keep in mind there is a soul of Le Bernardin. Don’t do 
something that is against those principles.” Then he let Ripert make 
all the mistakes he wanted. What Gilbert really did, though, was allow 
Ripert to advance from a chef who merely cooked to one who man-
aged the kitchen—he afforded Ripert a higher level of knowledge and 
experience. And he taught Ripert that a great cook must also be a  
great leader.
 Gilbert died unexpectedly from a heart attack in 1994, leav-
ing Maguy Le Coze and Ripert to manage by themselves. Maguy Le 
Coze’s natural élan continued distinguishing the front of the house, 
and with the kitchen now under control, Ripert became co-owner. 
 Ripert cares intensely about the restaurant, the people who 
work there, the guest experience, and the purveyors. Many of Le 
Bernardin’s crew have been there for over a decade, anchoring man-
agement with little turnover in important positions. 155 / Best of the Best Le Bernardin has fostered three other restaurants by Ripert: 
Blue in the Cayman Islands (a AAA five-diamond restaurant), West 
End Bistro in Washington, D.C., and 10 Arts in Philadelphia. “Those 
chefs, they were each here with me at Le Bernardin,” says Ripert.
 Ripert manages his kitchen with a classic hierarchy, based on 
the French brigade tradition. The sous-chefs take responsibility for the commis—young cooks learning a craft, including interns, externs, 
and visiting cooks doing a stage.
 The restaurant’s suppliers are longtime purveyors integral to 
the standards at Le Bernardin. Ripert insists that a very good rela-tionship with purveyors is important. “Therefore, we get the fish 
first. We pay the fair price and we pay very, very quickly,” he acknowl-
edges. “This is a sign of respect and if you go to a fish market right 
now and look for black bass you’re not going to find any. However, in the back of a truck somewhere is the black bass for Le Bernardin.”
 Ripert is always reaching and growing to another level.  
Recently he launched a PBS series, Avec Eric, which follows his travels  
around the world, exploring locations where food and tradition 
come together to create special dining experiences. He has made  
several guest appearances on cooking-based television shows, includ-
ing guest judge and assistant chef roles on four seasons of Bravo’s  
Top Chef.
 Ripert has also appeared on many episodes of Anthony Bour-
dain’s show No Reservations, and played himself in a segment of the 
television series Treme, based in New Orleans.
 While the demands of celebrity chef status eat up a growing 
number of hours, he says 70 percent of his time is still spent with a 
stove. “It’s a tough balance,” he says, “but my priority is to be in the 
kitchen. 
It’S A very dIFFICUL t JOb ANd It’S NOt GLAmOrOUS. It’S  
A very rePetItIve LONG PrOCeSS, Phy SICAL, demANdING, 
ANd A LOt OF SACrIFICe. thA t’S WhA t yOU hA ve t O LOOK  
At. hOW mUCh PASSION dO y OU hA ve?” Ripert totally separates his private life from his professional 
life and protects the privacy of his family. “When I work, I work,” he says. “When I’m with the family, I think about them. When I’m 
alone, it’s time for something I like to do or to reflect.”
 In his rare time alone, he loves to listen to jazz and blues. He 
explains, “My cooking at home is very instinctive, and therefore it’s 
very similar to jazz. I improvise at times. Obviously, I have my base 
but I improvise all the time.” 
 And his base is what keeps it all together, what collects  
Ripert’s intensity and turns it into a cutting tool. He points out, “At Le Bernardin, I end up with the same result. Consistency. What is 
important is to have the same result for the client—the same sauce, 
everyday. To get the same sauce you don’t have to rethink it every 
time, you have to know that the products may be different—even 
made differently. If the tomatoes have too much water, you don’t 
cook them as though they were ripe. So, it’s always a bit of impro-
visation. However, I try to be consistent as much as I can. I tell my 
cooks, ‘Just connect with the act of cooking and the ingredients.’ It’s 
almost like meditation but it’s very free.”
 He once told an interviewer that if he were a fish he would 
be a dolphin. “A dolphin is very friendly, very nice, a free animal,” 
says Ripert with a laugh. “He swims and is a beautiful animal; I don’t 
mean aesthetically, it’s beautiful in terms of personality.”
 He smiles. “I like the symbolism. My sign is Pisces; I’m from 
the Mediterranean. The dolphin in Greece is a sign of good luck. 
And I think I bring good luck to people.”156 / James Beard
157 / Best of the BestZUCCHINI FLOWER AND CRAB FILLING
4 ounces peekytoe crabmeat, picked over
2 tablespoons crème fraîche
1 tablespoon thinly sliced fresh chives
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest
Fresh lemon juice Freshly ground white pepper
Piment d’Espelette4 large zucchini flowers, stamens removed
6 ounces shelled king crab leg meat
 
GARNISHES
1/2 cup blanched English peas and/or fava beans
1/4 cup baby pea tendrilsFINES HERBES–LEMON MOUSSELINE SAUCE
2 egg yolks3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1
1/4 cups unsalted butter, melted and hot
Fine sea salt
Freshly ground black pepper1 tablespoon chopped fresh parsley
1 tablespoon chopped fresh chervil
1 tablespoon sliced fresh tarragon 1 tablespoon sliced fresh chives
 STUFFED ZUCCHINI FLOWERS with PEEKYTOE and  
KING CRAB and FINES HERBES-LEMON MOUSSELINE SAUCE
To make the sauce
1. In a blender, combine the egg yolks and lemon juice and process on medium speed. With 
the motor running, drizzle the butter into the blender in a steady stream. When fully incor-
porated, season with salt and pepper and transfer to a sauce pan to keep warm.
To make the filling
1. Combine the peekytoe crabmeat, crème fraîche, chives, and lemon zest in a bowl. Season with 
lemon juice, salt, pepper, and piment d’Espelette. Fill each zucchini flower three-quarters  
full with stuffing.
2. Cut the king crab meat into 4 pieces. Place the stuffed zucchini flowers and the king crab in a 
bamboo steamer. Place a large pot filled with 2 inches of water over high heat and bring it to a boil. Place the steamer over the pot, cover, and steam until the filling is hot, about 3 minutes.
3. While the stuffed zucchini flowers and crab are heating, stir the parsley, chervil, tarragon, 
and chives into the sauce.
4. To serve, place each zucchini flower on a plate along with a piece of king crab and spoon 
the sauce over and around the stuffed flower and crab. Garnish with peas and pea tendrils. Serve immediately.
 
SERVES 4158 / James BeardBAKED LOBSTER
1 cup unsalted butter, cut into large dice
4 lobster tails
4 lobster claws (poached to medium rare and 
taken out of the shell)
 
GARNISHES
1 bulb baby fennel, shaved thin
1/2 grapefruit, peeled, segmented, and diced fine
olive oil CITRUS NAGE
1/2 cup champagne vinegar
2 tablespoons sugar
2 lemons
4 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into 
cubes
Fine sea salt 
Freshly ground white pepper
2 tablespoons Mandarin olive oil (see Note) 
PICKLED GOLDEN BEETS
2 or 3 golden beets, depending on size2 cups red wine vinegar
1/2 cup kosher saltLOBSTER CITRUS á la NAGE
CONTINUEDTo make the nage
1. In a small pot, bring 1 cup water, the vinegar, and sugar to a boil. While the vinegar is boil-
ing, wash and zest the lemons and juice them. Add the juice and zest to the vinegar mixture 
and transfer to the refrigerator for at least 24 hours.
To make the beets
1. Combine 1 quart water, the beets, vinegar, and salt in a medium pot and simmer until the 
beets are tender, about 40 minutes. Drain the beets and let them cool. Peel the beets and cut them horizontally into 
1/8-inch slices. Trim each slice into a 1-inch circle with a round cutter. 
Lay the beet circles on a parchment paper–lined baking sheet. The beets can be cooked and sliced ahead of time and kept refrigerated until ready to use.159 / Best of the Best
160 / James BeardTo make the lobster
1. Preheat the oven to 450°F. Make a beurre monté by bringing 1/4 cup water to a boil. Whisk in 
the butter in a couple of increments; season with salt and pepper and keep warm. 
2. Put the lobster tails in a pan and bake until cooked through, 8 to 10 minutes. 
3. Remove the beets from refrigeration and season them with salt and pepper. Lightly warm 
the beets in the oven for about 5 minutes. Meanwhile, drop the lobster claws into the warm 
beurre monté to heat. 
4. Strain the nage into a small pot and bring it to a simmer over medium heat. Whisk in the 
cold butter 1 tablespoon at a time, until the nage is emulsified. Season with salt and pepper and finish the nage with the oil. 
To plate
1. Arrange 5 slices of beets, slightly overlapping, on one side of each plate. Take the lobster 
tails out of their shells and slice them into 5 slices each. Arrange the lobster tail slices parallel to the beets. Place a claw on top of the sliced beets on each plate. Lightly dress the shaved fen-
nel and grapefruit with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Garnish the tails with 2 slices of fennel and some diced grapefruit. Spoon the nage over and around the lobster and serve immediately. 
NOTE: Mandarin olive oil is olive oil that has been infused with the natural oils in Mandarin 
oranges. It is available in many specialty food stores and online.
 
SERVES 4163 / Best of the Best
2004
JUdy rOdGerS
ChAPtER  fifteen164 / James BeardWheN A beAUtIFUL WOmAN is Also A fAmous, CelebrA ted  
Chef , life is rArely frAught With glAmour. With No. 2  
pencils securing her topknot and a notepad or a menu not far away, 
Judy Rodgers records an idea almost as quickly as the flash that 
arouses her imagination, whether it’s a suggestion to make her menu 
a little more appetizing or just a thought about keeping the customers 
happy. Rodgers’s lifelong habit of note-taking is a key component to her success as a chef and restaurateur. 
 The influence of traditional French and Italian cooking in 
her menus at Zuni Café in San Francisco, California, came from 
recipes she copied and notes she took while eating or observing chefs 
at work in some of the world’s most famous restaurants, beginning 
when she was a teenager. Rodgers signed on as chef at Zuni Café in 
1987, highlighting the restaurant’s eclectic status with a menu that 
continues to dominate San Francisco’s casual dining scene more 
than two decades later.
 Zuni Café is housed in a pie-shaped wedge of a building in 
San Francisco’s Hayes Valley, where vintage trolleys rattle past, pedes-
trians amble under the restaurant’s bright yellow awnings, and guests 
sip cocktails outside on a lazy afternoon. Rodgers is as high-spirited  
and down-to-earth as the restaurant. Willowy and fast moving, she 
talks with her hands and punctuates by bringing forefingers and thumbs together in an arcing exclamation.
 “The quiet and often shy Judy that we see in the dining room 
at Zuni Café changes into a not-so-shy and by-no-means-quiet  
dynamo in the kitchen,” says co-owner Gilbert Pilgram. “That is what 
has allowed the restaurant to become what some customers describe as 
‘the town square of San Francisco’ while keeping the food simple, fad-
free, and satisfying.” Pilgram worked at Chez Panisse for twenty years. 
He retired and then became bored. Now, he teams up with Rodgers in 
the kitchen and oversees the front of the house with bonhomie.
 Creating a friendly atmosphere and keeping a menu of sim-
ple food that defies trendiness is a lesson Rodgers took to heart from 
French and Italian restaurateurs, one that keeps on attracting cus-
tomers. Inside Zuni Café, a wood-burning oven situated between the open kitchen, dining areas, and bar, is used to toast bread, roast 
Zuni’s famous chicken, bake thin-crust pizzas, and prepare many 
other specialties.  
 For Rodgers, cooking is about more than just making food 
that tastes good: 
“AS A CheF , eACh tIme I ShOP FOr, mAKe, ANd t ASte A 
dISh, I Am revIvING ANd mA ybe reINveNtING my OWN hIS-
tOry WIth the dISh ANd ItS INGredIeNt S, bUt I Am ALSO  
thINKING AbOUt hOW It WILL be reCeIved. 
Every diner brings different memories and tastes to the table. I feel 
lucky to share some of my favorite ones. We have our repertoire. It’s 
very seasonal and product-based. But for me, so much with cooking 
has to do with the experience at the table—the cultural experience, 
the notion of conviviality. When I taste a dish and look at a dish, 
as much as anything I am wondering how it will be received. Will 
they embrace the dish? Will it feel fun, easy, or challenging? Will it  
delight? Will the guests take a bite and want another?” She continues,  
“It’s been very satisfying to have a restaurant in an era and a place 
where, shockingly, this relatively easy, natural way of cooking is  
appreciated and esteemed and admired. But, there is a huge irony 
that here I sit, roasting some chickens. It’s just a distillation of pay-
ing attention to a lot of traditional cooking and how people made 
food good. And it’s not my originality or Zuni’s originality. It’s just 
recognizing how that fits into the lifestyle of San Francisco.”
 Rodgers says the most difficult years for a restaurateur or 
young chef are the early ones when he or she must determine what 
to cook, what he or she is good at, and what he or she wants the res-taurant to be. “I knew in a heartbeat what I wanted Zuni to be, but 
it took years of experimentation, and expanding Zuni’s repertoire.” 
In the process, she logged and documented everything: The keep-
ers. The losers. “Over the decades, the repertory has grown, and we constantly revise and refine our methods, but there was a moment 
that I realized that the pressure to constantly add new dishes and  165 / Best of the Bestcombinations wasn’t really necessary. We sort of had our own tradi-
tions at Zuni. It was a great relief,” she now says as an original pro-
ponent of the California culinary movement.
 “I don’t think it’s all about having the best food. What’s more, 
the ‘best’ is infinitely disputable,” Rodgers says. Much of Zuni’s 
charm has to do with the experience at the table. She’s especially  
interested in the cultural experience, and a guest’s emotional  
response. “A dish should be lovely, but I want it to satisfy and pro-
mote conviviality as well. Food that kind of creates silence and awe? 
I don’t know how to do that.” 
 Rodgers’s note-taking began when, as a sixteen-year-old 
exchange student in France, she traded places with the daughter of 
the famous Troisgros family of Les Frères Troisgros. Rodgers lived 
above their restaurant in Roanne as a member of the family. They 
nurtured her interest in their regional food and the culinary ethics 
and aesthetics of France’s most revered establishments.
 “I was really very attracted to the simpler food, the traditional 
food, and started paying attention to the two chefs, their sister, and 
their aunt. They saw how interested I was and they put a lot of energy 
into teaching me and exposing me to the foods of the region. So, I 
would go to their aunt’s house and she would make all the traditional 
dishes. They took me to small restaurants, to markets to wineries, 
and cellars,” recalls Rodgers.
 The neighbor who arranged the yearlong exchange with the 
Troisgros’s daughter asked Rodgers to chronicle the recipes she  
experienced in France as her thank-you. Rodgers has always felt 
that she got the best of the swap between the two girls. Rodgers says, 
“That was all he asked for in return, so I took it to heart.” The result 
is volumes of lists documenting the food from that area of Burgundy in 1973 and 1974.
 Rodgers had Jean Troisgros double-check the accuracy of the 
recipes she was excited about. “I wrote them and re-wrote them—I 
have them all, still. When I came home, I translated them all into 
English, made multiple copies.” One set of copies went into a safe deposit box. “It was quite 
lucky that I was asked to record those recipes. The process forced 
me to pay ever more attention to the cooks, the ingredients, and the methods. In particular, I learned from seeing the same dishes made 
every day at Troisgros. Jean would go out of his way to explain why 
he was using less cream today because it was thicker, or more lemon, 
because it was less acidic than usual. He always gave me the reason.” 
At Troisgros, the emphasis was on the importance of ingredients, 
the foundation that Rodgers builds upon by assuring Zuni Café has the best fresh-farm products.
 Rodgers had returned to America with a heightened interest 
in cooking and was motivated to share the traditional foods of France 
that were so much a part of her own culinary history. It was a stint at 
Chez Panisse that jump-started Rodgers’ professional food career. 
Rodgers first heard about Chez Panisse during her senior year at 
Stanford University, where she received a degree in art history. A 
friend, who was a server there, told Rodgers about the restaurant. 
The server had also told Chez Panisse owner Alice Waters she had a 
friend who had spent a summer at Troisgros and had written down all 
the recipes. Rodgers had dinner at the restaurant, talked with Waters, 
and they discovered many common interests. “I had lived a fabulous 
year at Troisgros and I missed and craved that ambiance and energy. 
I sensed that same delicious, seductive energy at Chez Panisse.”
 Waters was planning a sabbatical and needed someone to fill 
in for her cooking lunch. Although Rodgers had little to no experi-
ence actually working in a restaurant, Waters asked her to try out for 
the job. She auditioned there after spring break.
 Rodgers had no thoughts about committing herself to being a 
chef or restaurateur. “I just sort of happened into it, by being placed 
in France at the best restaurant in the world, and then coming to 
Northern California—the perfect spot, at the perfect moment—to 
capitalize on that experience.” 
 After working for a week at Chez Panisse in the spring of 1977, 
Rodgers was hired and began her two-year stint as lunch chef. Rodg-
ers says she “kind of winged it” every day during her first few weeks 166 / James Beardon the job because of her inexperience. “I would write a menu and 
Alice would come in and troubleshoot, and believe me, there was 
some trouble to shoot. But gradually, I figured out how to do some 
basic things to pull it off, not the least of which was to taste, and taste, 
and taste.” 
 “She has a beautiful artistic sense about food,” says Alice  
Waters. “It’s very rare to find cooks that are artists, and also art-
ists who are cooks. This is a sensibility that I really appreciate, and  
inspires me. She just puts it on the plate in a very different way.” After  
Waters returned, Rodgers took her own sabbatical in Europe to fig-
ure out her next career move. Some old friends suggested that on 
her way to Spain she stop in a tiny village south of Bordeaux to see 
their friend Pepette Arbulo. 
 She ended up staying the whole summer at Pepette’s rustic 
restaurant, L’Estanquet, learning the food of southwest France. As 
she recounts, “It was the pure, minimal, regional restaurant, serv-
ing just things from that region in ‘un-falutin’ interpretations that 
were Pepette’s distillation of her heritage. We would go to the farm 
and pick up the foie gras. There were no trucks, no deliveries. That 
drove home what Jean Troisgros had talked about. What you eat  
every day is just as important as fancy restaurant food. Unadulter-
ated regional fare–the dishes that are ubiquitous and delicious in 
countless forms in a given region–these culinary repertories are cul-
tural treasures, sustainable and sustaining over generations.”
 With the real country restaurant experience now part of her 
background, Rodgers returned to California as chef with Marion 
Cunningham. She developed a menu of simple and traditional 
American dishes at the Union Hotel in Benicia, California. 
 “Endless fried chicken, acres of spoonbread, countless cream 
biscuits, 6-hour Indian pudding. But the most important thing was 
not the dishes. I obsessed over Native American ingredients–wild 
rice, fiddleheads, wild persimmons, miners’ lettuce, ramps, and I was  
enchanted by the quality of local produce that was becoming available. 
I was certain there was nowhere better in the world to be cooking.”   She worked to find innovative ways to produce dishes and 
recipes similar to what she had experienced in France. In 1983, 
Rodgers rented a farmhouse outside Florence, Italy, and once again 
began to write down everything she ate, cooked, and found for sale at 
the local markets. After subsequent trips through many other parts 
of Italy, Rodgers returned to California with a significant goal: to 
settle down at a restaurant that would allow her to cook and share the 
traditional foods of France and Italy that were so much a part of her 
own culinary history.
 She landed at the Zuni Café in 1987 as chef and ultimately 
became co-owner. For Rodgers, Zuni is all about running just one 
restaurant, keeping a small and tight operation, serving good food, 
and creating a happy environment. 
 Considering the multiple honors and accolades she has  
received as a chef and as an author, Rodgers keeps a low profile. Her 
No. 2 pencils came in handy again, when she wrote a cookbook, now 
a classic. “Since it was published in 2002, I’ve watched The Zuni Café 
Cookbook take its place in the pantheon of great cookbooks,” says  
Maria Guarnaschelli, senior editor and vice president, W. W. Norton.  
“It’s more than a treasure trove of great recipes. It’s also an important 
series of insights on cooking written in beautiful prose.”
 Rodgers and her “fabulous partner,” Pilgram, share culinary 
tastes and backgrounds and have one common goal for Zuni Café: 
“We both are attracted to restaurants and hotels that are personally 
run by the owner. We want our restaurant to feel like our home and reflect our taste not just in food, but architecture, paintings, music, 
all those things that come naturally after living for many years in a 
house. This includes a few defects and imperfections that we have 
come to embrace like the 100-year-old windows that are a project to 
keep clean but provide a beautiful light. We just want this restaurant 
to be as good as possible.”168 / James Beard
169 / Best of the Besttender lettuce leaves  
(to cover a slice of bread in two layers) 
About 3 ounces room-temperature tender,  
ripe tomatoes (your favorite heirloom variety), 
sliced 1/4 inch thick
1 to 2 tablespoons homemade aioli or lemon 
mayonnaise or anchovy mayonnaise (optional)
4 large shiso leaves3 to 4 ounces salmon belly, skinned
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon coarse cracked black pepper
2 slices country-style white bread or chewy 
levain bread, about 1/2 inch thick
1 teaspoon plus 1 tablespoon extra-virgin  
olive oil
1 teaspoon red wine vinegar“SALMON BACON,” LETTUCE and TOMATO SANDWICH
1. One day in advance, toss the salmon belly with the salt and pepper, place on plate, cover 
loosely, and refrigerate. 
2. The next day, choose a nonstick or well-seasoned cast-iron pan just wide enough to  
accommodate the belly in one layer. Cut the belly into a few pieces if necessary.
3. Set the pan on medium heat, warm it until the fish sizzles on contact, and then lay all the 
fish neatly in the pan. Leave to sizzle and cook undisturbed as it renders its fat and turns 
golden and crunchy on the bottom, about 5 minutes. Don’t let the salmon burn, but like-
wise, turn up the heat if it isn’t beginning to color within a few minutes. Carefully turn it over to crisp and color the other side, a few minutes at most. The salmon should have a firm 
golden crust and will be cooked through, but will remain succulent and flavorful, owing to its 
natural richness and the brief salt cure. 
4. Meanwhile, brush the slices of bread with 1 teaspoon of the oil and lightly toast under the 
broiler, in a toaster oven, or on the grill.
5. Combine the remaining 1 tablespoon oil and the vinegar with a pinch of salt to make a tart 
vinaigrette. Toss the lettuce in the vinaigrette. Lightly season the tomatoes with salt.
6. Slather one of the slices of still-warm bread with aioli, if using. Layer with the cool lettuce 
leaves, overlapping tomato slices, the shiso, and then the warm, crispy salmon. Top with the 
second slice of bread.  
7. Eat immediately.
 
SERVES 1170 / James Beard
171 / Best of the Best6 ounces small, tender frisée and escarole 
leaves
20 almonds, toasted and very coarsely chopped 
2 ounces sunchoke, washed and trimmed, but 
not peeled
1 to 2 ounces dry Jack cheese, rind removed
Freshly cracked black pepper1/4 cup golden raisins
6 tablespoons dry sherry1 small shallot, finely diced
1
1/2 tablespoons red wine vinegar
6 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
Salt FRISÉE and ESCAROLE SALAD with GOLDEN RAISINS,   
SUNCHOKES, DRY j ACK CHEESE, AND ALMONDS
1. At least 3 days before you make the salad, combine the raisins and sherry in a small jar, 
cover, and leave at room temperature. Shake the jar a little each day to encourage the raisins 
to absorb the sherry evenly. They should absorb all or nearly all the sherry.
2. Combine the shallots and vinegar in a small bowl and set aside to marinate. After about  
20 minutes, whisk in the oil and season with salt. 
3. Drain the raisins. 
4. Place the frisée and escarole in a large salad bowl. Add the almonds and raisins. Using a 
vegetable peeler or mandoline, shave the sunchoke into thin slices onto the greens. Next, shave about 1 ounce of the cheese into the bowl. Add the vinaigrette and toss well to make sure 
every leaf is fully coated with dressing. Taste and add salt, if needed.
5. Divide the salad among four small plates, dividing the elements evenly. Garnish each salad 
with shavings of the remaining cheese and finish with a few grinds of black pepper. 
 
SERVES 4172 / James Beard
173 / Best of the Best1/2 cup peeled, coarsely chopped, ripe Early Girl 
or Roma tomatoes (4 ounces)
1/2 cup cooked salted shelling beans, such as 
cannellini, flageolet, garbanzo, or cranberry 
beans (4 ounces)
6 ounces chewy-stale white country-style bread 
(ciabatta works well)
4 cups rich chicken stock, lightly salted16 basil leaves, torn into 
1/2-inch pieces 
Freshly cracked black pepperParmigiano-Reggiano, Gruyère, or aged t uscan 
pecorino cheese, grated (optional)4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1/2 cup 1/4-inch dice carrot (4 ounces)
1/2 cup 1/4-inch dice celery (4 ounces)
1/2 cup 1/4-inch dice yellow onion (4 ounces)
1/2 cup green beans or Romano beans, cut into 
1/2-inch pieces (4 ounces)
Salt
1/2 cup 1/4-inch dice summer squash (4 ounces) 
(see Note)
1/2 cup 1-inch pieces deribbed Swiss chard 
leaves (4 ounces)Zuni  BREAD SOUP
1. In a heavy bottomed 4-quart pot over medium heat, warm about 2 tablespoons of the oil. 
Add the carrot, celery, onions, green beans, and a few pinches of salt. Cook gently, stirring 
occasionally so none of the vegetables brown. If they begin to sizzle aggressively or crackle, 
reduce the heat. Cook evenly until they are al dente, no longer raw-tasting, but not tender, mushy, or discolored, about 7 minutes. Next, add the squash, chard, tomatoes, another 
splash of oil, and another pinch of salt. Continue cooking gently until the chard is just 
limp and the tomatoes are hot through, another few minutes or so. Now all of the vegetables should be just-cooked, with no trace of raw or grassy flavor. Taste for salt as needed.
2. While the vegetables are cooking, drain the shelling beans and set aside their liquid. Carve 
all of the bottom crust off the bread, then shave off the top and side crusts as well, leaving a 
bit of the golden inner crust intact. Tear the crusted bread into irregular pieces, ranging in 
size from fat crumbs to 2-inch pieces. You should have about 5 ounces of bread pieces.
CONTINUED174 / James Beard3. Add the drained shelled beans, 3 cups of the stock, the basil, and the remaining oil to the 
pot with the vegetables. Raise the heat to medium and stir a few times as the soup comes to 
a simmer. Taste again for salt and reduce the heat slightly. Cook until all the vegetables are 
tender, which may take as little as a few minutes or up to 10.
4. Now add 4 ounces of the prepared bread. It should readily absorb into the liquid. Gradu-
ally add the remaining stock or substitute some bean cooking liquor if you like that flavor. 
Stir occasionally as the soup comes to a slow simmer. The soup will be dense. The big and 
small chunks of bread should be saturated with broth but still intact. Cook for a few more minutes, until the soup starts to thicken. If you drag a spoon across the bottom of the pot, the liquid should slowly ooze back to the center of the pot. If the liquid is still watery, reduce 
the heat and simmer a few more minutes, until it thickens more, or fold in some—or all— 
of the remaining bread. If the soup is too dry, add more stock or bean liquor a tablespoon at 
a time until the texture is dense but succulent. Reseason if necessary. 
5. Serve in hot bowls with a generous splash of extra-virgin olive oil and freshly cracked black 
pepper. It is delicious with freshly grated cheese, if desired. 
NOTE:  Use pale green varieties of summer squash, such as Lebanese, Cousa, pattypan, or 
Rond de Nice.
 
SERVES 6 TO 8175 / Best of the Best
177 / Best of the Best
2005
mArIO bA tALI
ChAPtER  sixteen178 / James BeardIt COmeS AS NO SUrPrISe thA t the good-nA tured ,  
bArrel -Chested , gArrulous Chef mArio bAtAli held  
doWn his first C ooKing gig A t stuff yer fACe, A PiZZA 
Joint in bruns WiCK, neW Jersey . Like the proverbial pizza 
man who flings his dough with gusto, Batali tosses zest and zeal into 
his work. 
 Batali, born in Yakima, Washington, in 1960, grew up in sub-
urban Seattle. His father, an engineer for Boeing, was transferred 
to Madrid when Mario was fifteen and Spain was blossoming socially, 
artistically, and gastronomically. Batali is fluent in Spanish as well 
as in Italian. He returned to the United States to major in Spanish 
language, theater, and economics at Rutgers University. Six months 
after graduation in 1982, Batali was still working at Stuff Yer Face, 
hooked on the adrenaline rush cooks get when a restaurant goes into 
dinner service. His work ethic is still fueled by that feeling. When his 
mother suggested that he consider cooking school, Batali recalled responding, “That’s for sissies.” A music lover and amateur guitarist, 
he was more interested in mastering guitar licks than fine-tuning his kitchen skills. 
 Nonetheless, Batali enrolled at the Cordon Bleu in London, 
only to drop out a few weeks later because he found the pace too slow. 
Not taking the full course was a decision he calls “stupid.” He says 
now, “You should finish what you do.” Instead of formal culinary 
training, Batali followed a brutal on-the-job regimen to earn chef 
status. He was an assistant in the kitchen at a pub in Kings Road, 
Chelsea, under Marco Pierre White, who would later revolution-
ize the British restaurant scene. Then Batali did turns at La Tour 
d’Argent in Paris, Moulin de Mougins in Provence, and the Water-
side Inn, outside London. 
 Returning to the United States in 1985, he worked as a 
sous-chef at the Four Seasons Clift Hotel in San Francisco, then at  
La Marina restaurant in Santa Barbara. He was fascinated by  
California’s “New American Cuisine” and landed a job with  
Jeremiah Tower at Stars, who Batali credits for providing him with  
much inspiration. Jeremiah Tower describes Mario as a “genius  in knowing exactly what the public wants and then doing it— 
several times.”
 In 1989, Batali headed to Italy at the age of twenty-nine to 
learn more about his family’s culinary heritage. The few months he 
planned to stay turned into three years. “Apprenticing at La Volta in 
Borgo Capanne, Italy, changed my life,” says Batali.
 In Italy, Mario immersed himself in some of the traditions of 
Italian cooking that he had learned from his beloved grandmother,  
Leonetta Merlino, whose ravioli, he says, is legendary. “It’s in  
women’s nature to be better at cooking because they don’t cook to 
compete. They cook to feed people,” Batali asserts. “Back in Italy, 
the best chefs are never dudes—it’s always the grandma.” He often 
says he strives to cook like an Italian grandmother—nurturing and 
contagious with joy and hospitality.
 For a young chef who arrived in Manhattan in 1992 with just 
$250 in his pocket, enthusiasm, talent, and a bunch of old T-shirts, 
he’s parlayed his assets into an impressive portfolio of food-related 
enterprises. 
 In 1993, Batali and Joseph Bastianich, son of Lidia Basti-
anich, opened the tiny restaurant Po in Manhattan with not much 
more than optimism. Following a running start, he sold his stake.
 But Batali’s lusty take on traditional Italian fare first earned 
the media spotlight in 1998 at Babbo Ristorante e Enoteca, his 
Greenwich Village restaurant. There, the chef has seamlessly com-
bined traditional Italian gastronomic principles with intelligent  
culinary adventure as a pivotal element in his empire. With a larger- 
than-life persona, he also blasted onto television screens, the  
exposure helping integrate his love of Italy’s traditional cuisine into 
the way twenty-first century America eats, all the while establishing 
himself as the American king of Italian cooking. 
 The savvy chef likes being in public—whether on television, 
radio, or the Internet—to promote Italian food, his restaurants, and 
his cookware line. Batali readily acknowledges that he enjoys his  
celebrity status, but says that his objective is always to make people 
happy. Batali believes: 179 / Best of the Best“It ShOULd be LOve ANd JOy, mUSIC, Art, d ANCe, ANd  
beING t OGether thA t drIveS US t O COOK, t O eA t, ANd 
tO ShAre.”
 Batali’s television appearances are many and varied, express-
ing the wide range of his interests and talents. He’s hosted a variety  
of programs for the Food Network, including Ciao America, Molto  
Mario, and Iron Chef America. In the fall of 2008, Mario co-hosted a PBS  
series with Mark Bittman, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Spanish actress 
Claudia Bassols called Spain . . . On the Road Again.
 The Mario brand continues to expand. Batali and partner 
Joe Bastianich now have fifteen restaurants in New York, Las Vegas, 
and Los Angeles, with more planned. The establishments are singu-
lar variations on Italian or Spanish themes, familiar territory for 
the partners. Eataly, the largest Italian food and wine marketplace in 
the world, opened in 2010 with multiple eating areas and a rooftop 
Italian beer garden. Batali and his partners also cultivate interests in 
vineyards and olive oil.
 The Batali/Bastianich organization employs more than 
1,500 people, all trained to achieve the level of skill and dedication  
required as a commitment to genuine hospitality. Batali has a heart-
felt and ambitious goal: “I want to do the best job for our staff by 
making them happier and wealthier and for our customers, by sat-isfying them—making sure that everyone is constantly challenged, 
working together on every level of everything.”
 The strength of the operations is teamwork. Batali promotes 
from within and encourages the climb up. When Batali interviews 
talent, he’s seeking something special. “I’m looking for the clar-
ity in their eyes and a passionate commitment. I’m not looking for 
someone who’s hoping to get a springboard to be the next TV chef. 
I can teach a monkey how to make linguine with clam sauce but I 
can’t teach a monkey how to love the clam,” Batali quips. Chefs, he 
says, should appreciate the variations that occur in a restaurant from 
month to month and they should look at their work “as a research 
project as opposed to just a construction job.” “The most outstanding award we ever received was Best New 
Restaurant for Babbo,” Batali says about winning recognition from 
the James Beard Foundation in 1999. “It offers probably the single 
greatest message for inspiring young chefs. I’ll never forget the ela-
tion, the feeling of contentment knowing that all of the work that we 
put into it got recognized.
 Being in his restaurants is what Batali likes best. The  
New York location of Otto Enoteca Pizzeria is less than a block 
away from his home near Washington Square, and he rotates  
between nearby Babbo, Casa Mono (a Spanish-style taverna), Lupa 
(a Roman-style trattoria), Bar Jamon (a tapas bar), and Del Posto (a white-tablecloth Italian restaurant). 
 The chef’s identity is unmistakable, partly because of his 
familiar face and ponytail, and partly due to his signature orange 
wardrobe, an ingredient in his multitiered marketing strategy.  
Orange was also the color his sons, Leo and Benno, wore as kids so 
they could be easily spotted among the other children on the play-
ground. Hence, Batali has deemed orange the “Batali National Color”  
and he calls his outfits “Bitaly,” a play on his name and heritage. 
From bright orange Crocs, which he runs through the dishwasher, 
to shorts as his daily attire, the color is ever present. He wears Crocs 
out of practicality. He says, “I mean come on. Crocs are the single 
most comfortable shoe. They get the fashion blogs really pissed off 
because apparently they don’t like them. But I don’t give a darn about 
it—I’m very comfortable, and they’re very recognizable. People can 
sight you from a ways away.”
 The bag-of-doughnuts look is designed for comfort, not to 
impress. He’d like to wear fancy clothes, Batali confesses, but he just 
doesn’t have the time or inclination to find them. Now that he’s dressed himself in a signature style, he probably won’t change. His 
fashion statement is as much an element of branding as his name or 
the Blood Orange Bellinis offered at Babbo.180 / James Beard
181 / Best of the Best2 serrano chiles, seeded 
1 teaspoon chili flakes
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Freshly ground black pepper
1 pound cavatelli, fresh or dried
2/3 cup toasted bread crumbs
Pecorino Siciliano PESTO
8 ounces fresh basil
1 cup roasted almonds
3 garlic cloves, peeled 
1 ounce fresh mint, black or spearmintSalt
9 ounces tomatoes, peeled and cut lengthwise 
into 
1/2-inch slicesCAVATELLI with PASTA ENRICO
1. In a large pot, bring 6 quarts water and 2 tablespoons salt to a boil.
2. Meanwhile, make the pesto: In a mortar or a food processor, pound or process the basil, 
almonds, garlic, mint, and a pinch of salt until creamy. Reserve.
3. Separately pound or process the tomatoes, chiles, and chili flakes. Blend the tomatoes into 
the basil mixture, adding the oil and seasoning with salt and pepper. Put the pesto in a large 
serving bowl.
4. Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook until tender yet al dente, 6 to 8 minutes. 
Drain. Add the pasta to the serving bowl, tossing to coat. Garnish with the bread crumbs. Serve with Pecorino Siciliano grated at the table.
 
SERVES 4182 / James Beard1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
3 cups extra-virgin olive oil
1 cup finely chopped black truffles
kosher salt 
Freshly ground black pepper 
FREGULA
11/2 cups fregula pasta
2 ears corn, shucked
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
3/4 cup chicken stock
1/4 cup freshly grated  
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheeseMARINADE
1 red onion, diced
1/2 cup balsamic vinegar
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup honey
2 tablespoons fresh thyme leaves1 tablespoon freshly ground black pepper
8 guinea hen legs, deboned, with skin
VINAIGRETTE
1 cup sherry vinegar1 cup 
1/4-inch shallot slicesGRILLED GUINEA HEN with FREGULA and
BLACK TRUFFLE VINAIGRETTE
To make the marinade
1. In a 5-quart covered glass casserole, combine the onion, vinegar, oil, honey, thyme, and 
pepper. Put the guinea hen legs in the marinade, turning to coat on all sides. Cover and  
refrigerate for 8 hours or overnight.
To make the vinaigrette
1. In a 12-inch sauté pan over medium heat, add the vinegar and shallots and cook until the 
shallots are soft. Drain the shallots. In a food processor or blender, purée the shallots with 
the mustard. With the motor on high, drizzle the oil into the shallots and mustard until the 
mixture emulsifies. Whisk in the truffles. Season with salt and pepper. Reserve.183 / Best of the BestTo make the fregula
1. Preheat the grill and prepare an ice water bath. 
2. In a medium saucepan over high heat, bring 3 quarts water and salt to a boil. Add the pasta 
and cook until just tender, 10 to 12 minutes. Plunge the pasta into the ice water. Drain the 
pasta, dry well, and reserve.
3. Brush the corn ears with the oil, season with salt and pepper, and place them on the grill, 
turning every 2 minutes until all sides are nicely charred and the kernels are just beginning to burst. Remove the corn from the grill. When the ears are cool enough to handle, cut the 
kernels from the cobs with a sharp knife. 
4. In a 12-inch sauté pan over high heat, combine the fregula, corn, and stock, bringing them 
to a boil. Continue boiling until the stock is absorbed into the grain, about 5 minutes. Add 
the Parmigiano-Reggiano, season with salt and pepper, and toss over high heat for 1 minute. 
Reserve.
5. Remove the guinea hen legs from the marinade and pat dry. Place them skin-side down 
over the hottest part of the grill until dark brown and crisp on the skin sides, 6 to 7 minutes. 
Season with salt and pepper. Turn and cook on the other sides until just cooked through,  
4 to 5 minutes more. Keep warm. 
6. Divide the fregula among four warmed dinner plates. Place two guinea hen legs on each 
plate, drizzle with the black truffle vinaigrette, and serve immediately.
 
SERVES 4184 / James BeardVINAIGRETTE
1 red bell pepper
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon mustard seeds
1 tablespoon dried oregano 
6 wooden skewers, soaked in water overnight 
1 teaspoon fennel pollenLAMB HEARTS
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup vermentino or other dry white wine 
1 bunch fresh mint, finely chopped1 tablespoon chili flakes
4 lamb hearts, diced into 1-inch cubes
CARDOONS AND POTATOES
1 pound raw cardoons, peeled and cut into 
3-inch pieces
2 medium, waxy potatoes (about 8 ounces)
Extra-virgin olive oil1 lemon, juiced and zested
1 teaspoon chili flakesGRILLED LAMB HEART SPIEDINI with CARDOONS,
POTATOES, and SWEET PEPPER VINAIGRETTE
1. In a large bowl, combine the oil, wine, mint, and 1 tablespoon of the chili flakes. Add the 
lamb heart and marinate at least 30 minutes, preferably overnight.
2. Preheat a grill or plancha to high heat.
3. In a large saucepan, combine the cardoons, potatoes, and water to cover. Bring to a boil, 
until the cardoons and potatoes are tender, about 15 minutes. Strain and cool. Cut the car-
doons into matchsticks. Dice the potatoes into 1/2-inch cubes. Reserve.
4. Roast the pepper over an open flame until blackened. Place it in a paper bag to rest for 
5 minutes. Peel off the darkened skin and remove the seeds and stem. Place the pepper in a food processor or blender with the vinegar, oil, mustard seeds, and oregano. Process or 
blend until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. Reserve.
5. Toss the cardoons and potatoes with olive oil, the lemon juice and zest, and the chili flakes. 
Divide among six plates.
6. Place 3 pieces of lamb heart on each skewer. Grill the skewers until nicely charred, turn-
ing after 2 minutes. Place 1 skewer on each plate, drizzle with vinaigrette, and sprinkle lightly 
with fennel pollen. Serve immediately.
 
SERVES 6187 / Best of the Best
2006
ALFred POrt ALe
ChAPtER  seventeen188 / James BeardCheF ALFred POrt ALe looK s As if he stePPed from A 
PAge of GQ mAgAZine. WeAring A fitted blACK Chef ’s 
JACKet And Well -Pressed designer JeAns, he’s A s Cos-
moPolit An A s his rest AurAnt , gothAm bAr And grill. 
He speaks quietly with staff, seeming to feel the dining room’s 
rhythm, aware of everything around him. Expectations run high at 
Gotham Bar and Grill. His customers expect the pinnacle of a din-
ing experience and Portale expects them to have it. 
 Almost three decades into the restaurant’s success, it’s still 
critical to him that the menu is creative, fresh, and contemporary and 
that the service remains well tuned. This persistent creativity makes 
Gotham feel like the city’s hottest new place, even though it’s long 
been a pillar of New York’s dining favorites. One of three children, 
Alfred Portale grew up in Buffalo, New York. His father worked for 
the United States government. His mother was a homemaker and an 
early volunteer for the Meals On Wheels program. She sent her chil-
dren to school with nourishing homemade lunches, which Portale 
swapped with other kids. “I just wanted Hostess Cupcakes,” he laughs.
 On Sunday afternoons, Portale and his siblings, parents, 
aunts, uncles, and cousins would gather for a gigantic Sunday dinner. 
The young Alfred helped in the kitchen. “It was important,” he says. 
“It wasn’t sophisticated, but it gave me an appreciation for cooking.”
 Drawing lessons and a well-developed color sense led Portale 
to designing jewelry—rings, engraved belt buckles, and gem-set hair 
combs. When all his samples were stolen at a trade show, he took 
it as an omen to look for another career. Portale had recently dis-
covered the elaborate color photographs in Paul-Henri Pellaprat’s 
L’Art Culinaire Moderne. The photographs inspired him to segue to a 
new career, from designing jewelry to the culinary arts. “There were 
photographs of cold buffets. Silver trays, spiny lobsters standing  
upright, little medallions and truffle cutouts and aspic spliced right up 
the tail. I thought it was like edible jewelry,” he says. “And I thought: 
That’s what I could do. I could apply my love of design to this.”
 Portale worked for two Buffalo restaurants as a prerequisite to 
enrollment at the Culinary Institute of America. He smiles. “I totally believed I could enroll at the Culinary Institute, graduate, and within 
two years, be out there creating elaborate buffets.” He smiles again. 
“It was very different from what I imagined. When you’re a youngster, 
you don’t understand that this is a lifetime of study. I thought when I 
went to culinary school I graduate and instantly become a head chef.” 
 Graduating at the top of his class in 1981, he spent his first six 
months postculinary school peeling potatoes in France. The more 
he learned about the rigors of being a chef, the more he loved the art 
and craft of preparing a dish. Portale was ready for much more. 
 When he returned to New York, he worked in French restau-
rants. “While the chefs of those restaurants were not my mentors, I 
did study them and read their cookbooks. 
I reAd COOKbOOKS CONS tANtL y. It IS hOW my CreA tIve 
PrOCeSS WOrKS. It’S LIKe dOING meNt AL CALIS theNICS,” 
he says. Portale starts by reading the indexes and turns to the page 
of a dish that interests him and reads the ingredients, but he never 
looks at the directions. He explains, “I look at the flavor combina-
tions, textures, and the inspiration for the dish.”
 Gotham was a struggling operation with a zero-star New York 
Times rating when Portale was hired in 1985 as the fourth chef during  
the restaurant’s first year. It was a cavernous space. He revamped the kitchen, the menu, and the service. Barely six months later, the  
New York Times awarded the restaurant three stars.
 When Portale joined the restaurant, the song “The Heat 
is On” became his anthem, the chef burning to make his mark. 
Portale wanted a restaurant that emulated the standards of the  
Michelin three-star restaurants in which he trained, but designed 
with his own buoyant twist. “Initially, I was interested in chefs who were cooking complex and highly technical French cuisine.  
That was very important to my development,” he says. “Even today,  
the young chefs have to do their Ferran Adrià technique. They want to do something that nobody’s ever done; the more technically 
complicated, the better. I think that’s a young male chef’s affliction.  189 / Best of the BestI had it too, but I was tempered and influenced by the French chefs I 
worked under, legendary chefs such as Michel Guérard, the broth-
ers Troisgros, and Jacques Maximin. They gave me an excellent 
appreciation for products and flavors and honesty in cooking. I 
applied their training to my design sense and developed my own 
personal style.”
 Noted food columnist and author John Mariani says that 
Portale became chef at Gotham as that particular New York–style 
restaurant was in its ascendency. Portale, thoroughly grounded in classic technique, gave New Yorkers sophisticated and refined  
cuisine, while also displaying his largesse, his exuberance, and his 
multilevel approach to flavors and textures. “His ‘tower’ dishes were not gimmickry. They were absolutely right for a vertical city with so much going on at every level,” says Mariani.
 Portale seems an unlikely rebel, but his work demonstrates 
otherwise. Given a free hand, he melded his classical French foun-
dation with the California food revolution’s outlook, breaking convention, building ingredients layer upon layer. The first act of 
rebellion from the young chef was his towering architectural plating— 
a style that resonated through the restaurant world.  
 Then Gotham became one of the first upscale restaurants 
to relax the formal dress code to business casual—a downtown kind 
of attitude. As a result, former New York Times restaurant critic Ruth 
Reichl declared, “You feel as comfortable in Gotham in jeans as you 
do in a tuxedo and are treated with the same warmth and respect by 
the staff either way.”
 When the chef, who had been used to working in three  
dimensions, arrived at Gotham, he didn’t like the traditional flat 
look of plated food. He used his design aesthetic and art background 
to arrange ingredients as jewel-toned sculptures. The highly struc-tured presentations were a product of his desire to create complex, 
labor-intensive, beautiful food, and to enhance flavors by starting 
with simple, clean combinations and punctuating them with beauti-
ful, stylish presentations. Quickly emulated—sometimes successfully, 
other times not—his towering food regularly provoked the wrath of waiters everywhere, teetering through America’s dining rooms, bal-
ancing food monoliths.
 He remembers the comments. “People wondered how many 
chefs we had working in the kitchen and how were we creating this dynamic and complex food,” he says. The answer is by building enough controls into each dish, by finding a place for everything, by deciding on exact specifications for size, shape, height, length, and depth, and by measuring to the millimeter—all to produce consis-
tently fine food at high volume. 
 The plating style at Gotham has since evolved. Portale no 
longer assembles skyscrapers, but plating continues to be as meticu-lously designed as jewelry. It’s a different balancing act now—one 
of multicultural flair. “The influences of various cuisines repre-
sent New York City and the energy of New York,” he says, speaking 
as a pioneer of the “New American Cuisine” movement. With an 
emphasis on seasonality and local produce, he lets the ingredients 
speak for themselves. He calls it “clean cooking.” Gotham has long-standing relationships with a variety of farmers and a steady source 
of fresh ingredients. The menu changes monthly in accordance with 
availability, although favorite dishes are rotated.
 At Gotham, Portale trains a new generation of chefs who 
carry forward his techniques when they open their own restaurants. 
He believes young chefs can now find training opportunities in a 
number of American cities as an alternative to France. When Portale 
hires sous-chefs, he looks for passion and desire. He believes their 
time at Gotham should help them to grow, stay motivated, and be 
challenged. In the kitchen, he watches for cooks who have a respect 
for ingredients and a delicate touch. “Those are the people who  
ultimately do a great job,” he says.
 His first protégé was his first sous-chef, Tom Valenti, now 
executive chef and co-owner of Ouest. Jacinto Guadarrama has 
been at Gotham even longer than Portale, starting as a dishwasher, but Portale guided him to his current position, chef de cuisine. Bill 
Telepan, chef/owner of the eponymous Telepan, and Gotham alum, 
is not surprised that Gotham is still spectacular. “Alfred’s attention 190 / James Beardto detail is still as evident as it was when I worked with him fifteen 
years ago,” he says. “It is something I always reflect on. He is also 
someone who was always there to teach and listen. He encouraged 
me to develop skills that I use to this day.” Chefs who have worked 
under him acknowledge that Portale allowed them to grow due to his 
management style—even-tempered, organized, good to be around, 
and reaching for the best without shortcuts. “He’s a consum-
mate professional,” colleagues say. Even when chefs head to a bar,  
unwinding after the restaurant closes, Portale goes home.
 Portale’s empathy and tolerance for aspiring chefs is one of 
his greatest contributions. He remembers how hard it was when he 
was a Culinary Institute of America extern looking for a position 
with a good restaurant. Portale knows he was lucky to get one. He 
tries to pass that luck along. “We have a big crew in the kitchen. I 
encourage externs from the Culinary Institute and the local French 
Culinary Institute.” 
 Tom Colicchio, who went on to make his own culinary name 
with Craft restaurants, left Gotham after only one week. Two years 
later, he was again working at Gotham and parking his motorcycle in 
the basement. But those were early days. Today it’s unlikely motor-
cycles would be allowed in the basement. Now, at the top of a fulfill-
ing career, Colicchio was named the 2010 James Beard Foundation 
Outstanding Chef. “We attract good people,” says Portale. “It’s no 
secret that a lot of great chefs come through here. When you’re new 
in a profession, you need an environment like this, where you can really learn. It’s intellectual, but it’s also very physical.” 
 Portale remembers when kitchens in French restaurants were 
“war zones,” as he says. “I don’t know about today, but when I was 
there, it was very tough. The older chefs would play tricks on you, turn off your stove, turn up the heat on your sauce and burn your 
stuff. They’d throw out your mise en place. The cooks would yell at the 
waiters and the waiters would yell at the cooks—it was a constant bat-
tle.” As a result of that exposure, he feels strongly that the discipline 
is tough enough without adding to it. This attitude alone makes Por-
tale different. “It’s so distracting when there’s yelling and screaming and conflict,” he says. He tries to eliminate all that from his restau-
rant. “Here we treat each other professionally and with respect.” 
 Portale has watched the restaurant business evolve. “It’s 
a quicker path to glory. Things happen faster. Cooks are better  
educated, better informed, and more aggressive. Chefs are treated  
like rock stars, or the television personalities they so often are,”  
Portale reflects. He notes that the greatest TV chefs began as accom-
plished working chefs, pointing to Colicchio, Batali, Lagasse, Flay, 
Morimoto, and DiSpirito. Portale, who continues to have his share of 
the spotlight, says he admires “guys like Wolfgang Puck and Thomas 
Keller and Jean-Georges Vongerichten, these modern legends who 
work so hard,” he says, shaking his head. “The amount of sacrifice  
required to run a restaurant like The French Laundry is extraordinary.”  
 Until recently, Portale consciously refrained from expanding 
Gotham to multiple locations. He made a decision to be part of his 
children’s lives. He limited his outside projects to writing cookbooks 
and consulting, collaborating on a renewal of the Philadelphia res-
taurant the Striped Bass in 2004. His three books are Alfred Portale’s 
Gotham Bar and Grill Cookbook (1997), Alfred Portale’s Twelve Seasons Cook-
book (2000), and Alfred Portale Simple Pleasures (2004).
 In October 2008, as one daughter finished college and 
his second daughter was beginning, Portale decided to finally  
expand, opening Gotham Steak to great success at the newly restored  
Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami. “Opening a restaurant takes a lot of 
time,” he says. “Now the steak house is running really well. It has a 
great team, front and back of the house, and is very successful.” 
 How does Portale relax? By building in an entirely differ-
ent way: working with wood. He creates 1950s mid-century modern  
furniture—tables, desks, sideboards, and dressers for his home.  
“I love the Hamptons and the sound of the ocean,” he says, “but my 
equipment is noisy and I was concerned about disturbing my neigh-
bors. I’ve moved my woodworking shop to the Berkshires.” Alfred 
Portale is considerate even when he relaxes.192 / James Beard
193 / Best of the Best4 ounces Greek feta cheese, crumbled into 
large pieces (approximately 1 cup)
1 ripe mango, cut into medium dice
Microgreens, for garnish (optional)
VINAIGRETTE
41/2 teaspoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar
1 teaspoon freshly squeezed orange juice2 large red and golden beets,  
washed but not peeled2 tablespoons olive oil
Coarse salt
Freshly ground black pepper3 oranges, peeled and separated into segments
1/4 cup coarsely chopped fresh mint 
1 tablespoon minced shallotsBEET SALAD with MANGO, FETA, ORANGE, and MINT
1. Preheat the oven to 400°F. 
2. In a bowl, toss the beets with the oil and season them with the salt and pepper. Put the beets 
on a roasting pan and cover them with foil. Roast in the oven until tender, about 1 1/2 hours. 
(They are done when a sharp, thin-bladed knife can easily pierce through to their center.) 
Remove the pan from the oven, remove the beets from the pan, and set them aside to cool.
3. While the beets are roasting, make the vinaigrette: In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, 
vinegar, and orange juice. Season with salt and pepper. Set aside.
4. When they are cool enough to handle, peel the beets and cut them into 1/2-inch dice. Put 
them in a bowl with 1 cup of the orange segments, the mint, and the shallots. Add the vinai-grette, season with salt and pepper, and toss gently.
5. Transfer the salad to a platter. 
6. Arrange the cheese, mango dice, and the remaining orange sections on top. Garnish with 
microgreens, if desired, and serve.
 
SERVES 4194 / James Beard
195 / Best of the BestBASMATI RICE
2 cups basmati rice
6 tablespoon canola oil
2 tablespoons blanched, sliced cashews
1/2 cup finely chopped onion
1 cinnamon stick1 cup milk
1/4 cup golden raisins
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
3 tablespoons yogurt
SAUCE
1 tablespoon canola oil6 or 7 scallions, coarsely chopped
1/2 small onion, chopped
5 garlic cloves, roughly chopped1 ounce fresh ginger, peeled and thinly sliced1 teaspoon spicy Madras curry powder
2 cups brown chicken stock
1/4 cup white chicken stock
1 tablespoon unsalted butterFreshly ground white pepper 
GARNISHES
Yogurt
1/4 cup microgreens or 4 sprigs fresh cilantroDUCK
4 boneless Muscovy duck breasts with skin and 
wing attached (about 8 ounces each)
1 tablespoon spicy Madras curry powder
1 stalk lemongrass, thinly sliced
4 large shallots, thinly sliced1 bunch fresh cilantro, roughly chopped
6 or 7 scallions, thinly cut into slices
6 garlic cloves, cut into slices2 ounces fresh ginger, peeled and thinly sliced
4 pieces foie gras (2 ounces each)
APRICOT-CHERRY CHUTNEY
1/3 cup white vinegar
1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger1 large garlic clove, roughly chopped
1
1/2 cups dried apricots, cut into  
1/2-inch-thick slices
1/2 cup dried sour cherries
1/2 cup golden raisins
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
Cayenne pepperCURRY-SPICED MUSCOVY DUCK BREAST with 
FRAGRANT BASMATI RICE
CONTINUED196 / James BeardTo prepare the duck
1. Using a sharp knife, trim any excess skin from the duck breasts, and score the skin lightly in 
a crosshatch pattern; do not cut into the flesh. Remove and discard the wing tip, but leave the 
remaining two wing sections attached to the breast. Sprinkle the curry powder evenly on both 
sides of each duck breast. In a small bowl, combine the lemongrass, shallots, cilantro, scal-lions, garlic, and ginger. Sprinkle half of the marinade on the bottom of a baking dish, lay the duck breasts over the marinade, and sprinkle the other half of the marinade over them. 
Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 24 hours.
To make the chutney
1. In a blender, combine the vinegar, ginger, and garlic and pulse until the mixture is almost 
smooth. Transfer to a nonreactive heavy-bottomed medium saucepan. Add the dried fruits, sugar, salt, and cayenne to taste, then pour in water to barely cover and stir well. Bring to  
a simmer over medium-low heat and cook, stirring frequently, until the chutney is thick and 
syrupy, 45 minutes to 1 hour. Let cool completely and reserve.
To make the rice
1. Put the rice in a colander and rinse under cold water for 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer the rice 
to a bowl, add 3 cups water, and let it soak for 30 minutes. Strain the rice from the water, 
saving the water. Set the rice and water aside. 
2. In a medium saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the cashews and toast for  
2 minutes, then remove the nuts from the pan and set aside. Add the onions to the pan and cook for 4 minutes, until softened. Add the cinnamon and cook for 2 minutes longer, until 
fragrant. Add the rice and cook, stirring for 5 to 6 minutes, until it just begins to brown. Add the milk, raisins, cardamom, and reserved soaking water. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Bring the rice to a boil over high heat, reduce the heat to medium, cover, and simmer for 
about 10 minutes. Reduce the heat and steam for 10 minutes longer—let the rice rest for  
5 minutes, and reserve warm. Stir in the reserved cashews, cilantro, and yogurt before serving. 197 / Best of the BestTo make the sauce
1. In a saucepan, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the scallions, onion, garlic, and ginger 
and cook for 3 to 4 minutes. Add the curry powder and cook for approximately 1 minute. 
Add the stocks, bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove from 
the heat, stir in the butter to enrich the sauce, season with the pepper, and reserve.
2. Remove the duck breasts from the refrigerator, wipe off the marinade, and let them come 
to room temperature. Season with salt and pepper, then place the duck breasts skin-side 
down in a large cold sauté pan. Cook the breasts over medium heat for about 10 minutes,  
until nicely browned. Turn and cook the second sides for 2 to 3 minutes longer, until  
medium rare. Remove from the pan and let rest for 10 minutes. While the duck breasts are resting, sear the foie gras in the same pan and cook until warm in the center, 2 to 3 minutes.
To serve
1. Spoon yogurt onto each plate. Using a fork, fluff the rice, and arrange some on each plate 
using a ring mold. Remove the wing bones from the duck breasts and french the ends. Slice the duck breast and fan it beside the rice. Arrange the frenched wings beside the slices. Place 
the foie gras on top of the duck breast, top with a spoonful of chutney, and spoon sauce over. Garnish with the microgreens and serve. 
 
SERVES 4199 / Best of the Best
2007
mICheL rIChArd
ChAPtER  eighteen200  / James BeardCheF mICheL rIChArd APPro AChes food A s A fine Artist , A 
CAlling he flirted With A s A young mAn. Where some chefs 
may simply see vegetables, Richard envisions a mosaic of contrasting 
hues, textures, and forms. His innate creativity jumps from palette to 
palate. In what he considers his flagship eatery, Michel Richard Cit-
ronelle in Washington, D.C., guests seated around the chef’s table 
in a glass-enclosed kitchen can witness art being made at the stoves.
 Richard’s artistry is displayed in the dishes he creates as well 
as his restaurant decor. In Citronelle, his edible works are served in 
the dining room, and one of his drawings is modestly displayed. The 
rotund chef, who paints at night, cares little if his quirky imagina-
tion is working either with a whisk or a brush. In his mind, they’re 
interchangeable. He does care that patrons leave his restaurants ful-
filled and enthusiastic about a series of delightfully colored dishes 
brimming with an array of flavors. 
 Richard is a superior technician. Serious, intense, and  
focused, he understands how ingredients can be manipulated in  
unconventional ways to realize his artistic vision. Yet he’s also a chef 
with a droll culinary edge. His trompe l’oeil presentations often  
elicit laughter from diners. His fundamental joy in his craft is  
displayed in both his food and his personality. Richard is all about creating delectable surprises. 
 Russ Parsons, food writer for the Los Angeles Times, a former 
cook under Richard, and member of the James Beard Foundation’s 
Who’s Who of Food & Beverage, calls some of Richard’s dishes at 
Citronelle “splendid goofs.”
 A celebrated menu item at Citronelle appears to be traditional  
fettuccine. But once tasted, the diner discovers it is sautéed onion 
strips rather than pasta. With a culinary sleight of hand, Richard  
infuses such dishes with a sense of humor and sends infectious  
wonderment to the table. Michel Richard Citronelle, which opened 
in 1994 at Georgetown’s Latham Hotel, is as fresh and bright as the 
cuisine served there. Quirky touches, such as a fluid, ever-changing, colorful “mood wall,” are appropriate for an adventurous chef who embodies the spirit of joie de vivre. Born in 1948 in Brittany, in northwestern France, Richard 
had a hardscrabble childhood while his mother worked as the fam-
ily’s sole support. Michel became the household chef at eight years 
old. “I was responsible for the food for my brothers and sisters,” says 
the oldest of five children. “I was their five-star restaurant. I cooked, 
and was enjoying myself!”
 Richard really fell in love with food for the first time, though, 
at nine or ten years old during an Easter vacation spent with a school-
mate whose father owned a restaurant. “When I entered the kitchen, it was for me paradise. The pastry chef let me help make a little tart. I 
fell in love with it all,” Richard remembers. He fell hard. He adored 
the white hats, aprons, the abundance of food, and most of all, the 
beautiful patrons he saw having a good time in the dining room. It became a burning, passionate affair. 
 Richard endured a harsh apprenticeship at a pâtisserie in 
Reims, France, at fourteen, learning the unforgiving techniques of 
making pastry under an often brutally demanding chef. But that was 
the nature of a circa-1960s French apprenticeship. Three years later, 
he moved to Paris, thrived under stimulus and encouragement, and 
rose to the top position at celebrated pastry chef Gaston Lenôtre’s 
fashionable pâtisserie. Lenôtre was Richard’s guardian angel, and 
Richard’s third book, Sweet Magic (2010) is dedicated to Lenôtre, 
who died in 2009. It features original art by Richard to illustrate  
the recipes. 
 In 1974, Lenôtre sent his protégé to open a pâtisserie in 
Manhattan. Armed with a two-hour lesson in the English language, 
twenty-six-year-old Richard made his way across the Atlantic. The 
Brittany native fell in love once again. “I was enchanted. I felt so 
small in France,” he recalls. “I felt like a big deal in America. I felt 
like anything was possible.”
 Lenôtre’s New York venture closed quickly because, as Rich-
ard remembers, in 1975 there was no dessert culture in America. But 
he loved the United States and he loved his work, so he stayed. “You 
don’t leave a girlfriend when you are in love,” he says. “I saw this country would be nice to me.” So Richard headed west. 201 / Best of the Best During his drive across the country that ended at a small  
pastry shop in Santa Fe, he found a roadside Kentucky Fried Chicken  
restaurant, and with it, a revelation. “It was so delicious: moist  
inside, and crunchy outside. In France, we don’t have a lot of crunchy 
food. I discovered texture in this country. Crunch, crunch, crunch. 
In France, I thought the food was boring, boring, boring. French 
chef, French vegetables, French people, and French food,” he says. 
He’s tickled that some people call him “Captain Crunch.” 
 Attracted by bright lights and stars, he moved on to Los  
Angeles, and opened the Michel Richard Pastry Shop in 1977, quickly  
gaining a reputation for having the city’s premiere pastries. That 
might have been a happy enough ending to his story, but, after a few 
years there, Richard was unfulfilled. “I was thirty-five and tired of 
baking,” he says. “I was losing part of myself.”
 When Paul Bocuse and Roger Vergé were in town to prepare 
a special event and heard there was a Lenôtre-trained pastry chef in 
Los Angeles, they asked Richard to make the dessert. That was fol-
lowed by an invitation from Bocuse and Vergé to visit them in France. 
Richard accepted and there they encouraged him to make a monu-
mental career change. His enthusiasm was rekindled and he deter-
mined to join their ranks as a great chef. “My dream was to become 
a chef, and my mother had told me to be a great chef I should learn 
to be a pastry chef first. But she didn’t tell me how long I should wait 
before becoming a real chef. It only took me twenty-one years to do 
it,” Richard explains.
 “From these two great chefs, I learned when the food leaves the 
kitchen it goes to guests. When I worked in a pastry shop people come 
to pick up the dessert and take it home. You don’t know what happens to it when it leaves the shop, and you don’t get to watch people enjoy 
it. As a chef, you get to take care of the entire evening—not only the 
pastry, but the flowers, the smell of the room, the beautiful plates. 
You create the whole cornucopia of foods from savory to sweet.”
 He discovered from Bocuse and Vergé the importance of 
beauty and cleanliness in their restaurants, the magic of entertain-
ment, the sophistication and synchronicity of the waiters, the feel of the tablecloths. Richard was impressed with the encompassing feel of 
perfect harmony.
 As fashions and styles change, so, too, would Richard. His 
pâtisserie became his classroom, where he taught himself the other 
side of the kitchen, moving from his knowledge of sweets to tricky savory dishes, bringing along his flair for gorgeous plating and 
adornment. The lack of a traditional apprenticeship proved an asset 
in many respects: He did what he knew, and in his own way. Flavors 
and textures became his new layers. 
 Richard’s style of food wizardry is rarely seen in a restaurant 
kitchen. From nouvelle cuisine’s influence, he works to make food lighter than traditional French cooking. He borrows a little from here, and a little from there, using his curiosity and observations to highlight the results. 
 However, the man so in love with food has been fighting a 
lifelong battle with his own weight. Richard jokes without hesitation 
that his dream is to slim down. “I would love to be skinny,” he says, 
smiling. “The doctor is telling me, and my wife is telling me, to be skinny. I want to please my doctor, and I want to please my wife, but 
I want to please myself. It is tough to be so happy with food. 
I LOve t O eA t. I LO ve GOOd FOOd. I LO ve hOW It t ASteS.”
 “I like to add little things to my dishes. Just a little salt. I love 
that so much. But some people don’t like it. That’s because they cook 
without salt,” he says. Sometimes a guest will come into the restau-
rant and ask for salt-free food. “Soon people are going to ask us to 
cook with no seasoning at all. Or maybe just want a salad. Maybe 
then we could all be skinny. Maybe I should change the name of the 
restaurant to Hospital!” he laughs.
 But the chef who adores good butter, and adds salt to his 
dishes, is adapting to the trends of healthier lifestyles and eating. 
He uses vegetable waters and juices to lighten his recipes. Cubes of 
pureed vegetables, fruit juices, and even mushroom jus are frozen. 
Later the cubes can be used to make sauces.202 / James Beard He admits, “It’s fun. It’s always a challenge. We need to learn 
the new style of eating.” After all, he says, it is possible to have a salad  
and a carrot stick and make them both appealing and appetizing. 
“You can have your salad, and keep your carrot happy in the salad. 
Shredded carrot salad!” 
 Richard sees his job as creating surprising food—the food you 
don’t eat every day. With the rise of the food culture, top chefs are 
willing to shell out whatever it takes for superior ingredients. Chefs 
also know that if they want to hold on to their customers, they have 
to be constantly coming up with new and imaginative menu items.
 Richard is amazed at the variety of foods he is able to find in 
America. “In France when you go to a market, you only have a French 
market. Here we have such a variety! We have all of the Asian markets, 
Latino products . . . you go around the corner, and you find food  
everywhere. It’s a potpourri. It’s fabulous, just great,” he enthuses.
 While Richard has been an inspiration to chefs around the 
world, he has had his own culinary heroes. One of them was the late 
Jean-Louis Palladin, also an honored James Beard chef. 
 Ariane Daguin, the owner of D’Artagnan, a purveyor of such 
products as game birds and foie gras, met Richard through their 
mutual close friend, Palladin. “Jean-Louis told me you have to go 
see that crazy pastry chef over there,” she recalls. “He was doing very 
avant-garde things. . . . Michel was combining hot and cold in a way 
nobody else was doing back then. He was looking at the other guys, 
and saying, ‘Hey, I’m a chef, too.’ You could tell he wanted to dazzle 
them.” Palladin and Richard became the best of friends, each with a 
raucous sense of humor.
 Beginning in 1987, Richard opened restaurants in Los  
Angeles, San Francisco, Baltimore, Santa Barbara, and Philadel-
phia, but they all eventually closed. He finally settled down at Michel 
Richard Citronelle in Washington, D.C., in 1994, and another in  
Carmel, California.
 Then he did it again in 2004, opening the wildly successful 
Central Michel Richard, also based in Washington. “It was always my 
dream to have an American restaurant,” he says. The more casual bistro-style Central was awarded the 2008 James Beard Best New 
Restaurant, and is a rollicking scene as vibrant as the nation’s capital. 
Central’s logo is even a self-portrait cartoon doodled by Richard. 
 At Citronelle, guests witness a dedicated, focused crew under 
the watchful eye of one of the world’s most acclaimed chefs. Richard 
is not a celebrity chef too busy for his first love, the kitchen. He gives 
orders and dips spoons to taste sauces. He feels very strongly about 
the people working with him. “I love them,” he says about his staff. 
“I always feel like there are not bad employees, only bad leaders. You 
have to take what you know and you have to train them, teach them. 
You have to coach them standing right next to them.” And that feel-
ing explains why the chef with a sense of humor spends so much of 
his time in the kitchen. 
 In 2006, the chef, who lists “reading old cookbooks” as his 
only real hobby, published his second cookbook, Happy in the Kitchen, a 
light-hearted, sometimes whimsical approach to gourmet cooking at 
home. Home is where his heart is full.
 Looking back at over forty years in professional kitchens, 
Richard has few regrets. He’s respected. Love is returned. His friends 
are close. Celebrities, stars, and world leaders dine with him. Presi-
dent and Mrs. Obama chose Citronelle for their first date-night dinner after they moved into the White House. (He had the 72-hour 
short ribs; she had the lobster burger.)
 “Some people ask me ‘Are you going to retire?’ It is just 
fabulous. I have so much to do I cannot retire. I cannot stop. I’ve 
been having fun. It has been a nice voyage, a nice trip with cooking,” 
Richard muses. The past fifteen years particularly have been a great 
time, he says. “I feel like I’m a piece of food God created. There is 
nothing else I can do. Maybe painting. Maybe in a few years maybe 
you’ll go to a modern art museum and see a Michel Richard paint-
ing,” he says through a hearty laugh. “But probably not.”
 Instead, Richard recently designed a French menu for the 
café at the National Gallery of Art—a fitting place to serve the food 
of a culinary artist.204 / James Beard
205 / Best of the BestFine sea salt 
Freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons freshly grated Parmesan cheese, 
plus shaved Parmesan for garnish
Minced fresh chives, for garnish3 large yellow onions (about 21/4 pounds)
1/2 cup heavy cream, divided
1 large egg yolk
2 tablespoons unsalted butterONION FETTUCCINE with PARMESAN CHEESE
1. Cut off the tops from the onions and peel the onions. Stand each onion on its cut end and, 
with a paring knife, cut one lengthwise slit from top to bottom, reaching just to the core. Cut 
the onions crosswise into 1/8-inch slices with a sharp knife. You will have rings with open ends.
2. Separate the onions into strands, making about 8 cups loosely packed. Reserve the shorter 
strands for another use. 
3. Fill a medium pot three-quarters full with water and bring it to a rolling boil. Reduce the heat 
to a simmer. Place a steamer basket in the pot over simmering water. Place the onion strands in the basket, cover, and steam for 5 to 6 minutes, until they are translucent but still “al dente.” 
Remove the basket from the heat. The strands may be prepared several hours in advance.
4. In a small bowl, mix 1/4 cup of the cream and the egg yolk. Set aside.
5. In a 12-inch sauté pan over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the remaining 1/4 cup cream 
and simmer for 30 seconds. 
6. Toss the onion strands with salt and pepper. Add the onions to the pan, cooking for 2 to 
3 minutes, or until hot. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the cream mixture and 
Parmesan. Adjust seasonings as needed. 
7. With tongs, remove a portion of onions, letting excess sauce drip into the pan. Put the 
portion on a serving plate, arranging it in a small mound. Garnish with shaved Parmesan and chives and serve. 
 
SERVES 4206 / James BeardMUSHROOM BROTH
3 pounds button mushrooms 
4 shallots, thinly sliced
2 cups red wine
Salt Freshly ground black pepper2 boneless, skinless duck breasts 1 cup shelled peas
1 cup thinly sliced asparagus
1 cup pearl onions, peeled and sliced
1 cup baby carrots, thinly sliced
1 cup thickly julienned turnip1 cup thickly julienned rutabagaDuck SHABU SHABU
1. Cover the duck breasts with plastic wrap and place them in the freezer for 1 hour, until 
partially frozen. Remove the plastic wrap. With a sharp knife, cut the breasts crosswise into 
paper-thin slices. Arrange them in a thin layer in the bottom of heatproof serving bowls, the 
slices just touching.
2. Prepare an ice bath by filling a 2-quart bowl three-quarters full of ice. Add cold water to 
the top of the ice.
3. Fill a medium saucepan with water and bring it to a rolling boil. Working with one type of 
vegetable at a time, blanch the peas, asparagus, onions, carrots, turnips, and rutabagas in the 
boiling water until just tender. Remove with a slotted spoon and plunge the vegetables into 
the ice bath to stop the cooking process. Drain and dry the vegetables before blanching the next batch. 
4. Preheat the oven to 300°F.
To make the mushroom broth
1. Puree the mushrooms in a food processor. In a medium saucepan, combine the shallots 
and wine. Bring them to a boil and reduce by half. Add the mushroom puree and simmer 
over low heat for 20 minutes. Pass the mixture through a fine strainer, reserving mushroom 
solids for another use, if desired. Season with salt and pepper.
2. Evenly distribute the vegetables in the bowls on top of the duck.
3. Bring the broth to a boil.
4. When ready to serve, place the bowls in the oven for 4 minutes, until the duck is warm but 
not cooked. Serve immediately, pouring hot broth into bowls at the table.
 
SERVES 6207 / Best of the Best
209 / Best of the Best
2008
GrANt AChA tz
ChAPtER  nineteen210 / James BeardWheN tONGUe CANCer rObbed GrANt AChA tz of his tAste 
for more thAn A yeAr, it didn’t stoP the Chef from reACh-
ing An eXAlted PinnACle. On the night of June 8, 2008, when 
he accepted the James Beard Foundation Award for America’s Out-
standing Chef, Achatz told the audience that he used the discipline 
that served his young culinary career to survive the diagnosis. “What 
I didn’t know at the time,” Achatz said, “is that tenacity, that drive 
that I took in—would save my life.” Some elements of his profes-
sional life were changed, he says, “but the general direction of where 
I was going before I was diagnosed is exactly where I would be now 
had I never had it.” 
 Throughout his ordeal, the slim, quickly moving chef con-
tinued to work in his restaurant kitchen, meshing his sense of smell 
with his crew’s sense of taste. His flavor memories and ferocious 
creativity bridged the gap. The experience did not define him as a 
chef, but gave him insight into his character. “I have a very strong  
belief that people needed to be aware of my fight with cancer.  
Because something I learned during that process was determination 
which could benefit a lot of people, not just people with cancer but 
sickness in general. So that’s why I was so public with it.” 
 Achatz’s determination was apparent early on. His parents 
and other relatives operated a number of restaurants in Michigan, and he grew up in restaurant kitchens. From the time of his adoles-
cence, he says, his life “has been devoted to tasting and memorizing 
flavors.” Soon after enrolling at the Culinary Institute of America in 
1993, straight out of high school, Achatz discovered that “food can 
be kind of an artistic medium versus just feeding people.” He was 
determined to find work in a top American restaurant. He signed 
on with Charlie Trotter in Chicago but left after three months. 
 Following that experience, he spent the next three months 
eating in France, Italy, and England. “I thought about the food. I 
was absorbed in it,” he remembers. Achatz then set his career goal of 
becoming the best. This meant learning from the best.
 He sent a letter every day for a week in 1996 to Thomas Keller. 
The letters caught the chef’s attention and on a Sunday, Keller  telephoned Achatz out of curiosity. All he wanted was a job, a chance 
at his dreams, Achatz explained. Keller invited him for a two-day 
trial and after the second evening, made an offer. 
 Achatz had no idea what the job paid. He had no idea what 
the position would be. He didn’t care. But his determination paid 
off with four rewarding years in the kitchen at The French Laundry 
in California. “Integrity and generosity were Keller’s keys to suc-
cess,” says Achatz. “I don’t want to be known for less than excellent. 
That’s what integrity is to me.” The two men connected, one leading 
and the other eagerly following.
 Keller later arranged a brief stage for Achatz at El Bulli, where 
he observed the principles of chef Ferran Adrià’s molecular gastron-
omy. As Achatz says, “Keller knew me well enough to recognize that 
this expression of creativity was what I was really interested in. First, there were inherent boundaries for what we created at The French 
Laundry just because of the concept. It is modern French food. So 
you couldn’t really stray too far off that. And I was always trying to 
wiggle outside of the boundaries of those confines. I was kind of 
known for that. So he recognized it.”
 The El Bulli stage proved to be a pivotal point in Achatz’s 
career. “It led me to realize that it was time to move on, because 
as amazing as my time was working for Keller, I was getting restless 
creating under his umbrella, and it was time to do something else.” 
In 2001, Achatz left The French Laundry to become executive chef 
at the Chicago restaurant Trio, where he earned five stars from the 
Mobil Travel Guide in 2004. He began focusing intently on the bold 
culinary style that, four years later, would reach maturity at Alinea, 
and almost immediately assure his place in the culinary world. 
 Opening Alinea in 2005 with his business partner and clos-
est friend, Nick Kokonas, was the achievement of a lifelong goal. 
When he met with the staff two days before opening, it was the first 
time the entire staff had gotten together. “Some of us had never even 
seen each other before, “Achatz remembers. “Fifty of us gathered 
and I gave the welcome and opening speech. And, I said, ‘We are 
about to open the best restaurant in the country, and anything less 211 / Best of the Bestis simply not acceptable.’ To even consider it not working, or people 
not accepting what you believed so wholeheartedly, was scary. It was 
a personal achievement. It wasn’t an ego thing—it was more a very 
important thing to accomplish, but I knew that regardless, I achieved 
one of my life goals, which was very satisfying. I was scared to death. 
We put so much into Alinea. I said that we were going to do this and 
then, holy cow we did it!” In short time, Alinea has found a place 
among the most sought-after dining destinations in the world. 
 Achatz asks guests at Alinea for trust when they enter the pri-
vate, unmarked door of the Chicago restaurant. Dining approaches 
performance art there. Each course is designed to astonish and pro-
voke thought. Bits of food arrive suspended from wire or ingeniously  
crafted edible threads. Other courses are cradled within vertical 
rods, or brought out on tiny porcelain pedestals arranged in a row.
 Black-clad servers pace the meal with almost clockwork preci-
sion. One dish may be presented with the admonition, “This is the 
centerpiece. Don’t touch this with your hands.” Food colors seem 
to brighten and deepen against the restaurant’s expanses of gray, 
silver, and black. Making your way through the twenty-plus course 
Tour menu typically takes three luxurious hours. Everything coheres, 
and everything is carefully designed to showcase Achatz’s creativity. 
He calls the style “progressive American” when people ask him to  
describe it. “I shy away from the term ‘molecular gastronomy’ because 
I don’t think it’s a fit description of what we do,” clarifies Achatz.
 No label could describe the range and avant-garde original-
ity of his menus. Dining at Alinea requires imagination and a heart 
open to joyous delight. It’s an all-encompassing experience, crafted 
to engage all the senses.
 The restaurant embodies the fascination Achatz developed in 
California and Spain with new culinary techniques. Alinea quickly 
became a proving ground for his fast-growing repertoire, a place 
where he and his crew could cook whatever they liked and toss out 
the clunkers. This led to menus driven by inspirations and flavor 
combinations that proved to be as exciting as they were audacious. It’s not surprising that the restaurant’s kitchen, with its  
induction burners, nitrous siphons, dehydrators, vacuum sealers, 
and sous-vide baths, has the aspect of a laboratory. Achatz is fastidious  
about his kitchen and equipment; floors are carpeted and vac-
uumed constantly. Stainless-steel workstations are smoothed free of 
scratches and dings, providing a pristine canvas upon which to work. 
His focus on unique combinations of texture and temperature has 
even inspired the invention of a new appliance, the AntiGriddle.  
It was developed in collaboration with an Illinois company called PolyScience that specializes in constant temperature control. 
The AntiGriddle can create, among other things, frozen foods 
with crunchy surfaces and creamy interiors. Achatz and his team  
continue to work with PolyScience on other intriguing ideas.
 Like a good many of his freethinking colleagues, Achatz uses 
these instruments to manipulate tastes, aromas, and textures to  
create totally original combinations. He is also known for using 
starkly contrasting flavors in a single dish—such as duck, chocolate, 
blueberry, and Thai pepper. 
 But it’s not all about innovation, edginess, and science. Achatz  
also relies on his classical cooking background to deliver the intended  
gastronomic effect. He says: “It’s about crafting an experience, 
whether that’s whipping hollandaise that we are going to serve or  
doing some crazy dehydration/freeze-running techniques. The way 
we blend it all together is not about trying to show science. There are 
some restaurants that try to do that—that’s fine if it’s what they want 
to do.”
 “We’re tryING t O breAK the mONO tONy OF NOt 
ONL y FOOd teChNIqUe, PreSeNt AtION, ANd PrePArA tION, 
bUt the emO tIONAL reSPONSe thA t yOU hA ve,” A ChA tz 
SAyS. “IF We CAN mAKe It mOre INterACtIve, Or mOre 
eNtert AINING, Or mAKe It INtImId AtING, Or mAKe It FUN—
theN We CreA te SOmethING thA t’S NOt JUSt AbOUt eA t-
ING ANd FILLING y OUr S tOmACh. It’S AN eveNt.”212 / James Beard Like a painter who sees shades of color that others do not, 
Achatz’s creativity with food comes from a natural and keen sense 
of observation. As he puts it, “Everything inspires me. I think being 
creative, to me, is about being very aware of your surroundings and 
being very aware of what’s going on in the world. An organic farmer 
from Michigan could bring a case of beautiful produce, and that 
might inspire a dish. It’s completely unpredictable. I might be visit-
ing an art gallery and see a particular texture or a particular form.” 
Achatz could be outdoors on a sunny afternoon, watching his two 
sons play soccer with childlike enthusiasm, and that stirs a notion. 
“It’s endless. It just comes from everywhere. There’s no real template 
or documented way.” 
 He thinks through new culinary ideas late at night in the 
empty restaurant by sketching various concepts. He then transfers 
the drawings to posters for the kitchen wall, so his staff can consider the concept. One bore the words “Capture spring. What is it? New, 
Fresh, Ice. Sprouts. Delicate. Gradual.” The practice stimulates 
feedback and collaboration.
 But the appeal of Achatz’s food goes beyond the eye and the 
palate. It also takes aim at the intellect and even the diner’s sense of 
nostalgia. With some of his flavors and aromas, Achatz tries to con-nect with the guest’s memory bank. In this instance, he once said, 
the goal is to “transport people back to other times in their lives. It 
might happen with the scent created by pouring very hot water onto 
hyacinth blossoms, or placing a partly burned oak leaf alongside a 
serving of pheasant.” 
 Then he takes his food fantasies a little farther by inventing 
thought-provoking ways to serve his creations. Achatz and designer/ 
sculptor Martin Kastner collaborate to design Alinea’s unique  
culinary assemblages—yet another expression of the chef’s artistic 
side. Achatz realized that evolution in cooking was not accompanied 
by evolution in tableware, and sought to encourage it. 
 Kastner works with metals, wire, and glass to craft imple-
ments for Alinea that are functional as well as beautiful. They’re  
essentially tabletop sculpture—adornment for gastronomy. As  Achatz is taking new looks at cuisine, Kastner’s creativity and zest are 
cutting new swaths through other traditions.
 In the five short years since Alinea opened, Achatz and 
Nick Kokonas have proven their abilities. Alinea, their 2008 book, 
stunned the publishing industry with its remarkable production  
values. They launched it with an extensive, multitiered marketing 
platform that includes an interactive Web site. Further, they tapped 
into social media. Achatz is an active blogger and keeps a laptop by 
his side. Their second book, Life, on the Line followed in 2011.
 Despite their monumental achievements, Achatz and Koko-
nas couldn’t stand hearing people ask, “What’s next?” They really 
didn’t want to stop at Alinea’s success. They had brought together 
such a unique and creative team that they wanted to expand on new 
ideas. Working again with Crucial Detail designer Martin Kastner,  
architect Steve Rugo, and interior designer Tom Stringer, their new 
projects are Next and The Aviary, which will be side by side at the 
Fulton Street Market in Chicago.
 Next explores world cuisine, drawing from great moments in 
culinary history—or the future. “We want to take diners on a journey 
to the foods we find exciting, delicious, and important,” says Achatz. 
“Our goal each season is to present the best possible menu from each 
culinary inspiration.” There will be four menus a year, exhaustively 
researched and tested.
 The Aviary next door is not exactly a bar or a lounge. There are 
no traditional bartenders, as chefs produce innovative and beautiful 
drinks paired with food. “Every great drink deserves a food pairing. 
We craft bites to pair with the drinks, much like we normally find 
drinks to pair with our bites,” explains Kokonas “But here, there’s 
no reservation or ticket, just walk right into the drink kitchen for an 
alcoholic tasting menu.”
 As Achatz puts it, “People ask me all the time, ‘Well, when are 
you going to settle down? When are you going to retire?’ And I’m, 
like, ‘Retire? I’m thirty-six years old, man!’ And that’s the weird 
part about this. I’ve been so lucky to ascend at such a rapid pace so 
early in my life.”214 / James Beard
215 / Best of the Best2 Granny Smiths apples, halved and cored  
 
Nonstick cooking spray
 
Freshly ground black pepper
8 tips young, fresh thyme, 1/2 in/12 mm long8 strips bacon, 1/16 in/2 mm thick and  
4 in/10 cm long 
8
3/4 oz/250 g sugar
51/4 oz/150 g light corn syrup
131/4 oz/375 g heavy creamBACON, BUTTERSCOTCH, APPLE, THYME
1. Place the bacon on dehydrator trays and dehydrate at 170°F for 3 hours, or until dried and 
crisp. Reserve in an airtight container.
2. Line a baking sheet with a silicone mat. In a medium, heavy saucepan, heat the sugar and 
corn syrup over medium heat to 350°F. Slowly whisk in the cream and heat to 240°F. Pour 
onto the prepared baking sheet and let cool. Transfer the butterscotch to a pastry bag fitted 
with a small, round tip. 
3. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Line a baking sheet with a silicone mat. Place the apples, cut-
side down, on the prepared sheet. Roast for 30 minutes, or until very soft. Let cool on the 
tray. Scoop the flesh from the apple halves into a small bowl and discard peels. Transfer the 
flesh to a blender and blend until smooth. Strain through a chinois into a medium bowl. 
4. Spray two 16-by-20-inch acetate sheets with nonstick cooking spray and wipe off the excess 
with a paper towel. Using a palette knife or offset spatula, evenly spread the apple puree on 
each sheet 1/16 in/2 mm thick. Transfer the sheets to dehydrator trays and dehydrate at 160°F 
for 45 minutes, or until they are the texture of fruit leather and can be peeled away. Cut into strips 
1/8 in/3 mm wide and 4 in/10 cm long. 
To assemble and serve
1. Gently hold a piece of bacon in one hand. Pipe butterscotch onto one half of the bacon, 
winding it around the slice and spacing the butterscotch lines 1/4 in/6 mm apart. Wind  
6 apple ribbons around the bacon, using the butterscotch as glue and producing an organic 
looping look. Season the bacon with pepper. Attach the thyme to the bacon with a small amount of butterscotch. Suspend each bacon strip from a stainless-steel bow. Repeat with 
the remaining bacon slices. 
 
SERVES 8216 / James Beard1 oz/30 g butter, very cold
1 oz/30 g Parmesan cheese
3 fresh chives2 fresh Perigord black truffles
Maldon sea salt3
1/2 oz/100 g Yukon Gold potato, plus  
1 medium Yukon Gold potato, unpeeled8 oz/225 g black truffle juice
1 lb 2 oz/500 g heavy cream
1 oz/25 g white truffle oil
1/4 oz/5 g kosher salt 
153/4 oz/450 g clarified butter
 HOT POTATO, COLD POTATO, BLACK TRUFFLE, PARMESAN
1. Peel the potato and cut it into 1/2-in/12-mm dice. In a medium saucepan, bring the potato 
and truffle juice to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for about 
20 minutes, or until the potato is tender. Add the cream, return to a simmer, and remove 
from the heat. 
2. Transfer to a blender and blend until smooth. With the blender running on high speed, 
add the truffle oil in a thin, steady stream. Add the salt and blend briefly. Strain through a 
chinois into a covered container. Refrigerate the potato soup for at least 8 hours. 
3. Using a 1/2-in/12-mm parisienne scoop, scoop out spheres of potato flesh (you will need  
8 spheres). In a small saucepan, cook the potato spheres in the clarified butter over medium heat for 20 minutes, or until tender. The butter will bubble, but the spheres should not 
brown. Remove from the heat and set aside until needed. 
4. Cut the butter into eight 1/8-in/3-mm cubes, dipping a knife in hot water and wiping it dry 
before each cut. Freeze until needed. 
5. Cut the Parmesan into eight small chunks, each about 1/8 in/3 mm wide.
6. Cut the chives on the bias into eight 1/2-in/12-mm lengths. 
7. Using a mandoline or truffle slicer, cut the truffles to yield 8 very thin slices.
To assemble and serve
1. Pierce the side of each of eight paraffin bowls with a long stainless-steel pin. Slide  
1 Parmesan chunk, 1 butter cube, and 1 chive length onto the pin, spacing them about  
1/4 in/6 mm apart. Fill the paraffin bowl about halfway with potato soup. Refrigerate the 
bowls. Gently reheat the potato spheres in the clarified butter. Remove the soup-filled bowls 
from the refrigerator. Slide 1 hot potato sphere onto each pin and drape the sphere with  
1 truffle slice. Top each truffle slice with a few salt flakes. 
 
SERVES 8217 / Best of the Best
219 / Best of the Best
2009
dAN bArber
ChAPtER  twenty220 / James BearderUdIte, thOUGhtFUL, ANd POLItICALL y WeLL INFOrmed, dAn 
bArber is the voiCe of A neW generA tion of Chefs in the 
fArm- to-tAble movement . But he’s really more dirt-to-roots- 
to-table than anything else. 
 Barber refutes labels, saying he has been doing all along what 
other chefs embarked upon twenty-five to thirty years ago. That was 
a critical movement, he acknowledges, but, with the proliferation 
of farmers’ markets across America, that is “old news today.” With 
the locavore movement as his foundation, Barber is taking the farm-  
to-table movement to a new level, hammering home the message that 
chefs must become more involved in raising awareness about the need 
to work with farmers to improve the quality, nutrition, and flavor of 
foods. Barber calls it the “recipe of agriculture.” Barber grew up in 
New York City, but the happiest days of his youth were spent during 
summers with his brother and sister at Blue Hill Farm, his grand-
mother’s 300-acre farm in the Berkshires of Massachusetts.
 His grandmother was devoted to preserving the landscape. 
And in retrospect, Barber sees his childhood experience on her 
farm as having a strong influence on his decision to become a chef,  
“especially in the choice of what kind of chef I wanted to become,” 
he notes. He points to that experience as having set him on the path 
that led him and his brother David, along with David’s wife Laureen, 
to open Blue Hill restaurant in Greenwich Village in 2000, where  
Barber cooks food harvested from farms that have the same respect for 
agriculture, gastronomy, and preservation that his grandmother did.
 But there were other important influences that led Barber to 
his culinary fate. He received a degree in English and political sci-
ence from Tufts University in 1992, but he also took some courses in 
agriculture there that reignited an interest that he’d had since child-
hood. He read Wendell Berry, Rachel Carson, and other authors 
who wrote about agricultural and environmental issues, stimulating 
his interest in political connections to the food Americans eat. 
 After receiving his degree, Barber planned to take a scholar-
ship in political science, but before the program even started, it was 
abruptly cancelled. Disappointed and with nothing to do, he drove across the country with thoughts of becoming a writer, or learning 
to bake bread. He started cooking to support himself and eventually 
landed in the kitchen of Nancy Silverton’s La Brea Bakery in Los 
Angeles, California. 
 Cooking was clearly Barber’s direction at this point. He 
returned to New York and entered the French Culinary Institute, 
graduating in 1994. He then moved to Paris, where he connected 
with Michel Rostang, an acclaimed third-generation French chef with two Michelin stars now. Barber says that the things he learned 
in Paris—besides how to survive long, grueling hours—were disci-
pline, technique, and the importance of sourcing good ingredients. 
Rostang subsequently helped him find work at several restaurants in 
the south of France.
 Returning to New York after a year in France, Barber was 
hired by David Bouley, who once told him, “When your back is 
not against the wall, you’ll never really create something brilliant.” 
Whereas a lot of people like the freedom to create, Bouley loves  
“chaos and extreme environments” to produce his artistic dishes, 
Barber notes. “He called it ‘kicking the ball around,’ which is put-
ting yourself on the line with new ideas and flavor combinations, 
and that’s how you learn, and that’s how you come up with these 
things under great pressure.”
 Barber started his own part-time catering operation with his 
brother David, and landed a job as executive chef at a French res-
taurant called La Cigale in Manhattan’s Lower East Side. He had 
never been interested in opening a restaurant, but he was hooked on 
cooking. When he and his brother needed space for a new and larger 
kitchen for the catering business, they found it in Greenwich Village. 
“We sort of moved the catering business into the kitchen and real-
ized that it was the perfect place for a restaurant, a small restaurant. 
We could do both the catering and the restaurant. And that’s how it 
started. I hired a chef and kind of kept the menu and the catering 
menu similar. It worked for a little while, and the restaurant became 
quite busy. I became less enamored of the catering. And that was 
that,” says Barber. He felt that he had more control over the food 222 / James Beardin a restaurant setting than as a caterer, and eventually, the business 
evolved into Blue Hill restaurant, named after the family farm.
 It didn’t take long for Barber to make a name for himself. In 
the summer of 2002, two years after Blue Hill opened, Food & Wine 
featured Barber as one of the country’s “Best New Chefs.”
 During the first year of Blue Hill, the Barbers were invited to 
submit a proposal to lease a restaurant to be housed in a converted 
dairy barn owned by the Rockefeller family in Pocantico Hills, New 
York. More established chefs were also approached. The Barbers 
won the bid, however. As Barber says, “We had good qualifications, 
and we had also established some special relationships with farmers 
in the Hudson Valley that went beyond the Greenmarket.” 
 The project, which initially granted them restaurant space, 
began to evolve into a new and dynamic agricultural project, Stone 
Barns Center for Food and Agriculture. Blue Hill at Stone Barns 
opened alongside Stone Barns Center in 2004. Hewing closely to 
his ideals, Barber cooks with meat, poultry, herbs, and vegetables 
raised and grown at Stone Barns, from nearby farms, and from his 
family’s Blue Hill Farm. Seedlings are grown in Stone Barns Cen-
ter’s 23,000-square-foot soil-to-soil indoor greenhouse.
 Also board member of Stone Barns Center, Barber lectures, 
writes, and works to educate people about how good farming prac-
tices relate to the quality of food on dinner tables. Barber continues  
to build a reputation as one of the country’s leading and most 
outspoken advocates of changing the way food is produced so that 
healthy, good food remains on the dinner table in the future.
 The diversity of what’s available, in terms of the types of vege-
tables and breeds of animals, has significantly declined, even during 
the ten years he has been in business, he says. If chefs do not involve themselves with farmers, then they will have to rely on distributors 
and other middlemen in the food production chain. “Unless we are 
dealing directly with a farmer on the kinds of things that we want and 
having these kind of in-depth conversations about what we need, we 
are going to face a world with a lot of diminished flavors and a lot of 
diminished offerings. We can’t afford that,” he states. The time has come, he says, for chefs to “not look back at 
the nostalgic farmer-chef relationship, but to look forward to  
embrace a different kind of relationship that’s much more involved 
and technologically driven and passionate—in a way that we are pas-
sionate about what goes on from the moment those products arrive in  
the kitchen.”
 Barber’s overriding message is that the challenge ahead is to 
produce nutritious food with flavor at an affordable cost with wise 
agricultural practices. “This sounds ridiculously axiomatic, but I’ll 
say it anyway,” he emphasizes. 
“there’S NO SUCh thING AS A GOOd-t AStING CArrO t thA t 
dOeSN’t hA ve behINd It GOOd eCOLOG y ANd GOOd SOIL  
StrUCtUre thA t It WAS GrOWN IN. USUALL y, It hAS A 
GOOd COmmUNIty thA t’S SUPPOrtING It t OO. 
Beautiful delicious leg of lamb—it’s not done by some kind of mira-
cle. It’s done because the lamb ate good grass, and because it had the 
right breed, the right farmer, and the right decisions were made to 
get it to you that way.”
 Barber thinks that the food choices that people make are tied 
to “political realities. Whether it is buying for the family or eat-
ing out, they send messages that connect to the economy, ecology,  
nutrition, and the environment and a whole host of issues that are impossible to separate from how we eat.”
 Reflecting on what it takes to be a good chef in today’s world, 
Barber says that one must be prepared to sacrifice and work what 
seems like “insurmountable or unconscionable hours” and embrace 
the labor. Sacrifice is inevitable in all professions, he says, adding, 
“I think all chefs would argue that you sacrifice more being a chef. 
And I just believe—and I think most chefs would believe—that to be a  
really committed, devoted, hardworking chef, especially in New York 
City, you have to sacrifice a lot.”
 And that, he says, is not a lament or a complaint.223 / Best of the Best1 cup small cauliflower florets (4 to 5 ounces)
1 cup vegetable stock or broth
1/2 cup cooked cranberry beans or  
other winter shelling beans
1/2 cup (packed) fresh italian parsley leaves
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
Freshly ground black pepper
SALAD
2 small carrots, thinly shaved
6 baby turnips, thinly shaved
kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
white balsamic vinegar
3 cups mixed foraged greens and shoots  
(or whatever is fresh at your farmers’ market)1 cup mixed fresh herbs, such as parsley,  
tarragon, chervil, thyme, mint, chivesBLUE HILL FARM YOGURT
3/4 cup whole milk
1/4 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons plain yogurt
PICKLED FORONO BEETS
6 tablespoons sugar2 tablespoons kosher salt
1 cup champagne vinegar
1 cup rice vinegar2 Forono beets, peeled and  
shaved on a mandoline
PISTOU
2 cups (packed) fresh basil leaveskosher salt
1/2 cup thinly sliced peeled carrots
2 cups small broccoli florets (about 6 ounces)GREENHOUSE SALAD with BLUE HILL FARM YOGURT
To make the yogurt
1. In a small pot, bring the milk and cream to a boil. Cool the mixture to 109.4°F/43°C and 
whisk in the yogurt. Transfer the contents to a sterilized jar and place it in a thermal circula-
tor for 12 to 14 hours at 109.4°F/43°C.
2. When the yogurt is thick, strain it. Line a strainer with cheesecloth and set it over a bowl. 
Place the yogurt in the strainer, and refrigerate for at least 2 hours; preferably overnight.
CONTINUED224 / James Beard
225 / Best of the BestTo make the pickled beets
1. In a small nonreactive saucepan, bring the sugar, salt, champagne vinegar, rice vinegar, and 
2 cups water to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar. Remove from the heat and let cool. Add 
the beets to a nonreactive bowl and pour the liquid over. Cover and refrigerate until ready 
to use.
To make the pistou
1. Bring a large saucepan of water to a boil. Prepare an ice water bath. Add the basil to the 
boiling water and simmer for 15 seconds. Using a strainer or slotted spoon, transfer the  
basil directly to a blender. Add 1 teaspoon of the salt to the water and return it to a boil. Add the carrots and cook 5 minutes. Add the broccoli and cauliflower, and cook until all the  
vegetables are tender, about 5 minutes longer. Drain. Using a slotted spoon, transfer  
the vegetables to the ice water and let stand until cold. Drain well. Add the vegetables, stock, beans, and parsley to the blender. With the motor running, add the oil and purée until smooth, occasionally scraping down the sides of the blender with a rubber spatula. Season 
with salt and pepper.
To make the salad
1. In a bowl, combine the shaved carrots and turnips. Season with salt and pepper and drizzle 
with white balsamic vinegar to taste. Remove the pickled beets from their brine.
2. In a large bowl, toss together the greens, herbs, beets, carrots, and turnips. Season with 
salt and pepper.
3. To serve, using a large spoon, spread streaks of pistou and yogurt on serving plates. Top 
with the greens mixture.
 
SERVES 6226 / James Beard
227 / Best of the BestVegetable oil, for deep-frying
Salt 
Freshly ground black pepper16 very thin slices pancetta
16 baby zucchinis, with blossoms attached
1 large egg
11/2 cups sesame seedsSummer ZUCCHINI
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. 
2. Wrap 1 pancetta slice around each zucchini, covering most of the zucchini. 
3. Whisk the egg in a medium bowl. Put the sesame seeds in another medium bowl.
4. Dip each pancetta-wrapped zucchini into the beaten egg to coat, then into the sesame 
seeds, turning to coat it generously on all sides. Place the coated zucchini on a baking sheet 
lined with waxed paper.
5. Pour the oil into a medium saucepan to a depth of 2 inches. Attach a deep-fry thermometer  
to the side of the pan and heat the oil to 350°F. Working in batches, fry the zucchini until the sesame seeds are golden, about 1 minute. Transfer the zucchini to paper towels to drain.
6. Arrange the zucchini on a baking sheet and bake until they begin to soften, about  
7 minutes. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper.
 
SERVES 16229 / Best of the Best
2010
tOm COLICChIO
ChAPtER  twenty-one230 / James BeardPLeASe dO NO t LAbeL tOm COLICChIO A Celebrity Chef . he’ll  
obJeCt . “brAd Pitt isn’t CAlled A Celebrity ACtor,” he Points  
out. “i’m not A Celebrity . i’m A Chef .” That is Colicchio’s calling, 
and he is content, comfortable, and successful in his role as chef and 
the conjurer behind the magic of the Craft group of restaurants. 
 He’s also husband and father, son and brother, child-hunger 
activist, guitar collector, and a saltwater fly fisherman. At the same 
time, he’s head judge on Bravo’s hit reality cooking series Top Chef. 
Being voted one of the “Sexiest Men Alive” by People magazine, along 
with Brad Pitt, just makes him laugh. Colicchio laughs about rock-
star chefs. “Let me tell you—I know a few rock stars. I’ve hung out 
with a few rock stars. Chefs are definitely not rock stars.”
 Creating a trend wasn’t the objective in 2001 when  
Colicchio left Manhattan’s successful Gramercy Tavern, where he 
was the founding chef and co-owner. Why did he leave behind a 
sure thing for the risky business of opening a new kind of restau-
rant? There were some notions about cooking and dining that he 
wanted to work out. Colicchio’s nature is to constantly push forward. 
There was no reason to change Gramercy Tavern, where he remained 
for three years after opening Craft. “I’m still proud to have been  
associated with it. It’s a great restaurant,” he says. 
 He opened Craft just a block away. The restaurant is based on 
creating a dramatic, pared-down version of what Colicchio had spent 
his career developing. He envisioned simple, good-quality, straight-
forward dishes that he now calls “contemporary American.” Craft, 
the restaurant, underlines his strong belief that cooking is a craft. 
“It’S NOt AbOUt the ArtIS try. It’S AbOUt CrAFt SmANShIP . 
It’S NOt AbOUt COmbINING INGredIeNt S Or AddING A bUNCh 
OF INGredIeNt S. It’S AbOUt FINdING the PerFeCt SeASONAL   
INGredIeNt ANd eNhANCING It,” C OLICChIO emPhASIzeS. 
 He realized over time that he had been removing ingredients 
from recipes. It was a revelation. “As chefs, we each have a reper-
toire of dishes we carry around like security blankets. When spring comes along, we tend to dust off our spring recipes. When a chef is  
experienced, and cooking really well, there’s a level of confidence. I 
didn’t need the bells and whistles anymore,” he says. In Colicchio’s 
kitchen, garnishes and a lot of sauces are unnecessary.
 His take on cooking is: “Showcase the product and really show-
case what that ingredient is about. Cook it simply and put it on a plate 
without garnishing it to death, without having five or six components 
to a dish. That was really how it started. It’s fine dining stripped down. 
It’s an evolution. It’s always about something I find interesting.”
 For Colicchio, it’s also about challenging himself and figuring 
out what he feels like doing. As he admits, “It is never about creating  
a trend or creating a concept. For me, it’s always about what do I feel 
like eating—what do I feel like doing right now in my career?”
  His career began with an early interest in food and cooking 
at home that led to his father’s suggestion that Colicchio consider  
becoming a chef. “It was important to my father that his three sons 
do something they really loved,” he explains. “Success was second-
ary. I think it was the only time I listened to my dad.” One brother  
became a top international accountant and the other a revered  
Linden, New Jersey, basketball coach.
 Colicchio read everything that he could about cooking, and 
discovered Jacques Pépin’s La Technique at home. He remembers, “My 
dad was a corrections officer, so it may have come from the jail  
library. In the last paragraph of the introduction, it reads, ‘Don’t look 
at this as a cookbook. Look at this as an apprenticeship.’ So, I figured, 
‘Why do I have to go to culinary school to learn how to cook?’” 
 He decided he could learn how to cook on the job, so Colic-
chio worked his way through Pépin’s legendary illustrated manual 
La Méthode. At the age of seventeen, he toughed his way through the 
kitchen at Evelyn’s Seafood Restaurant in his hometown, Elizabeth, 
New Jersey. He eventually followed a traditional culinary training 
path at various restaurants, including a turn in France. Colicchio 
worked at the Michelin two-starred Hôtel de France in Auch, Gas-
cony, with the father of Ariane Daguin (owner of D’Artagnan). 231 / Best of the Best By his mid-twenties, Colicchio realized he needed to develop  
his personal style. “For too long I was just reading books and  
emulating other chefs’ cooking,” he says. He didn’t have a men-
tor, partly because he didn’t stay at any one restaurant long enough, 
he says. Strategic about his new targets within New York City, he 
worked briefly for Alfred Portale at the Gotham Bar and Grill, and 
then was recruited by the Quilted Giraffe in Manhattan. He ended 
up working at Rakel with Thomas Keller. “I was there right after 
they opened up, and I was a sous-chef when I left for Mondrian,”  
Colicchio recalls.
 In 1991, as executive chef of Mondrian, Food & Wine magazine 
named him as one of the top ten “Best New Chefs” in the United 
States, and the New York Times gave the restaurant three stars.
 Colicchio and partner Danny Meyer opened Gramercy Tav-
ern in 1994, and in 1996, Ruth Reichl of the New York Times awarded 
the restaurant three stars, noting that Colicchio was “cooking with 
extraordinary confidence, creating dishes characterized by bold 
flavors and unusual harmonies.” His cooking at Gramercy Tavern 
won major recognition and he earned the James Beard Foundation 
Award for Best Chef: New York in 2000. 
 Colicchio opened Craft a year later to praise and another  
three-star New York Times review. He retained his ownership of 
Gramercy until 2006, when he decided to sell his share to concen-
trate his efforts on Craft. 
 Moving ahead at Craft with new ideas that extended to plating 
and the dining room, Colicchio felt that the idea of sharing food 
and the action of passing food around a table was missing in res-
taurants. He wasn’t targeting a certain demographic with this con-
cept; he just knew it seemed a natural way to eat. “How do you eat at 
home?” he asks. “Food is put on the table. You pass it around and 
everyone helps himself. Family style, on platters, creates the interac-
tion.” Aware that some people prefer to be more casual, and others 
more formal, Craft’s dining room has two sides, accommodating 
different comfort zones. Colicchio’s sense of hospitality comes from a desire to make 
people happy. “That’s what we do in this business,” he says.
 When Sisha Ortuzar, with whom Colicchio worked at 
Gramercy Tavern, suggested they open a sandwich place, Colicchio’s 
wife thought up the name ’wichcraft. Rooted in the same food and 
hospitality philosophies as Craft, ’wichcraft eateries have grown to 
multiple locations. Ortuzar is a partner in the endeavor, and is  
executive chef at the latest fine-dining establishment, Riverpark. The 
Colicchio-Ortuzar relationship is symbiotic. “He has the kitchen.  
It’s his house,” Colicchio says. While the menu is Ortuzar’s, the style 
reflects the Colicchio way. 
 Colicchio’s growing restaurant collection has now expanded 
to include four locations of Craft, two of Craftbar, two of Craft-
steak, thirteen of ’wichcraft, and Colicchio & Sons (in the former 
Craftsteak New York location), named in honor of his three sons. In 
addition, he is also part owner of Riverpark, also in New York City.  
 He took a big risk in becoming more entrepreneurial. “We 
have a lot of young chefs looking for that next position, and if you 
don’t provide the opportunity, they’ll go someplace else.” Described 
as a strong leader, fair-minded, loyal, and stubborn, Colicchio’s a teddy bear at heart, confides a staff member. He doesn’t like the 
drama of a yelling chef or manager. “Frankly, I don’t think it ever 
works. People shouldn’t stand for it,” he emphasizes. The success of 
the Craft restaurant group is due in part to Colicchio’s willingness to 
accept advice from talented and savvy business colleagues to negotiate 
deals and numbers and keep operations running smoothly. He relied 
on an experienced backer, Robert Scott, who, before retiring, was the 
president of Morgan Stanley. Jeffrey Zurofsky and Katie Griecoare 
are also longtime team members and partners. 
 When he feels that the business side is taking up too much of 
his brain, Colicchio steps back and does an occasional “Tom: Tues-
day Dinner,” presiding in the open kitchen of the private dining 
room adjacent to Craft, serving a multicourse sampling of the things 
that he’s been considering. As Colicchio puts it, “Half my time, I’m 232 / James Beardthinking about business, and the other half, I’m thinking about 
food and different combinations—so the creative side of my brain  
is working.”
 He says he didn’t get into the business to write books and do 
television, but they became challenges. “The idea of being a chef 
is expanding and changing,” he says. When Bravo approached him 
about doing Top Chef, he turned it down three times before agreeing 
to do the show. He had no aspirations of becoming a celebrity. His 
wife, Lori Silverbush, is an award-winning film producer, so he is 
aware of what editing can do to a program. Once he signed on as 
head judge, though, he was astonished by the show’s success. When 
Eric Ripert, chef/owner of Manhattan’s Le Bernadin offered to be 
on the show, and then Alfred Portale was a guest, Colicchio knew it 
was a hit.
 His colleagues are important to him and he maintains close 
friendships. Colicchio admits, “I’m always excited when someone 
like Keller or Portale is in my restaurant. The opinion of my peers 
is very important to me.” He jokes about being honored as the James 
Beard Foundation’s 2010 Outstanding Chef. “I don’t know how 
many times they were going to nominate me in this category before 
they got tired of me,” he says. “They finally decided, ‘Just give it to 
him so we can get rid of him.’”
 There’s a serious side to Colicchio, though. “The power of 
food goes far beyond our taste buds,” he believes. One episode of 
Top Chef during the 2009 season focused on demonstrating to kids 
the importance of food and healthy cooking. Colicchio feels it’s  
imperative to raise the public’s awareness of the fact that many chil-
dren do not have access to regular, nutritious meals. His mother’s 
work with school lunch programs made an indelible impression, so 
he’s knowledgeable about the link between healthy, well-nourished 
children and school work. “Even if it is only one good, healthy meal 
a day at school, we must be committed to providing that, as a min-
imum. Many schools are putting out food that has had all of the  
nutrition processed out of it,” he says. Colicchio was an executive producer and Silverbrush was one 
of the directors and producers of Hungry in America, a documentary 
film that takes a hard look at why one in six Americans is a hun-
gry adult, and why one in four is a hungry child. Colicchio feels so 
strongly about the subject that he testified on the issue before the 
U.S. House of Representatives in 2010. “In particular, eradicating  
child hunger is a personal passion of mine—to help make a differ-
ence toward this cause,” he says. His restaurants give back to the community by supporting charities including Children of Bellevue, 
City Meals On Wheels, City Harvest, the Food Bank for New York City, and GrowNYC.
 Colicchio has been honored five times by the James Beard 
Foundation, and has written three cookbooks. The first, Think Like 
a Chef (2000) won the James Beard Foundation Cookbook General 
Award in 2001. His second cookbook is Craft of Cooking (2003). The 
third is a sandwich book, ’wichcraft: Craft a Sandwich into a Meal—and a Meal 
into a Sandwich (2009), each published by Clarkson Potter/Publishers. 
But awards, accolades, and media exposure, while gratifying, are not 
the most important things in his life.
 “You start having children at a late age and you start thinking 
of legacy. You start thinking about how you want to be known,” the 
chef explains. “Someone asked me last year, ‘How do you want to be 
known? Do you want to be known as a chef? A restaurateur? As a TV 
guy?’ And I don’t want to be known as a TV guy. I’m a chef and res-
taurateur. So it just got me thinking.” He’s working hard to capture 
personal time with his family, and for himself. Colicchio named one 
of his restaurants Colicchio & Sons, but he doesn’t expect his three 
sons to follow in his footsteps, unless it’s out of a love for the busi-
ness. “I’m just like my father in that regard. I just want them to be 
happy in what they are doing.” He’s happy doing exactly what his 
father had wished for him. 234 / James Beard
235 / Best of the Best1/4 cup white wine
12 ounces lump crabmeat
16 sea urchin tongues
2 tomatoes, peeled, seeded, and cut in 1/4-inch 
dice 
1/4 cup minced fresh chives
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice, plus extra for 
garnish
 
Pinch curry powder
Chopped fresh chives, for garnishPOTATO PURÉE
Salt2 medium Yukon Gold potatoes
1/4 cup heavy cream 
1/2 cup butter
Freshly ground black pepper
SEA URCHIN AND CRAB FONDUE
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon butter, softened
2 shallots, mincedSEA URCHIN and CRAB FONDUE
To make the potato purée
1. In a medium saucepan over high heat, bring salted water to a boil. Add the potatoes and 
boil until tender, 20 to 25 minutes. Peel the potatoes and transfer to a food processor or 
blender. Add the cream and butter and purée until smooth. Season with salt and pepper. 
Reserve and keep warm.
To make the fondue
1. In a small saucepan over medium heat, bring 1 cup of water to a simmer. Whisk 3/4 cup of 
the butter into the saucepan, 1 tablespoon at a time. Reserve and keep warm.  
2. To a medium saucepan over low heat, add the remaining 1 tablespoon butter, warming  
until it slides across the pan. Add the shallots and cook until they are soft and translucent. 
Add the wine and reduce by half. Whisk in the reserved butter mixture. Add the crabmeat and 
sea urchin, stirring continuously until warm. Add the tomatoes, chives, and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper.
To plate
1. Divide the potato purée among four bowls. Spoon 1/4 cup sea urchin–crab mixture over the 
potato purée in each bowl. Garnish with lemon juice, curry, salt, pepper, and chives.
 
SERVES 4236 / James Beard1 jalapeño pepper, seeded and finely diced
1 teaspoon crushed pink peppercorns
1/2 teaspoon coriander seeds
1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds 
11/2 cups buttermilk
LOBSTER
4 lobster tails, 12 ounces each 1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
4 shelled, uncooked lobster claws
1 teaspoon Lobster Spice 4 tablespoons butter
2 bay leaves
GARNISHES
Mustard microgreens4  bay leavesLOBSTER SPICE MIXTURE
1/2 teaspoon mustard seeds
1/2 teaspoon coriander seeds
1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds
1 bay leaf, crumbled
Pinch cayenne pepper
CANDIED GINGER
2 large knobs (about 4 ounces) fresh ginger, 
julienned
2 cups simple syrup
kosher salt
Freshly ground black pepper
CHUTNEY
1 tablespoon olive oil
6 small leeks, white parts only, finely diced
4 scallions, white parts only, sliced on the biasSPICE-ROASTED LOBSTER  with BUTTERMILK CHUTNEY
To make the lobster spice mixture
1. In a small skillet or sauté pan over medium-low heat, toast the mustard, coriander, and 
fennel seeds until fragrant. Transfer the toasted spices to a grinder or mortar. Add the bay 
leaf and cayenne. Grind and reserve.
To make the candied ginger
1. To a small saucepan over medium-low heat, add the ginger. Cover with the simple syrup 
and season with salt and pepper. Simmer gently until the ginger becomes translucent, about 20 minutes. Remove from the heat, cool slightly, and drain the contents of the saucepan. Set 
the ginger aside.
CONTINUED237 / Best of the Best
238 / James BeardTo make the buttermilk chutney
1. In a medium saucepan over medium-low heat, warm the oil. Add the leeks, scallions,  
jalapeño, peppercorns, coriander, and fennel. Sweat until tender, without browning, 2 to  
3 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool. Add the buttermilk. Reserve.
To make the lobster
1. Prepare an ice water bath. Wrap each lobster tail in a double layer of plastic wrap. Place a 
large stockpot on the stove. Add the lobsters and set a heavy ceramic plate atop the tails to 
hold them in place. Add water and bring it to a boil. Cover and boil for 4 minutes. Remove 
the tails with a slotted spoon, immediately immersing them in the ice water. Remove the plastic wrap. Remove the meat from the shells and discard the tail vein. 
2. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat until it shimmers but does not  
smoke. Sprinkle the lobster tail meat and claws with salt and the lobster spice and add to the 
skillet. Cook for 30 seconds, then add 2 tablespoons of the butter. Turn the lobster, cook  
30 seconds longer, and reduce the heat to low. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons butter 
and the bay leaves. Cook, turning the lobster in the butter until the meat is just firm, about  
1 minute. Remove from the skillet.
To plate
1. Divide the buttermilk chutney among four plates, top each with a lobster tail and a lob-
ster claw. Garnish with candied ginger, the mustard microgreens, and a bay leaf. Serve at  
room temperature.
 
SERVES 4239 / Best of the Best
recipe credits
PiZZA With smoKed sAlmon And CAviAr
from The Wolfgang Puck Cookbook by Wolfgang Puck. Copyright © 1986  
by Wolfgang Puck. used by permission of random house, inc.
KAisersChmArrn
from Live, Love, Eat! by Wolfgang Puck. Copyright © 2002 by  
Wolfgang Puck Worldwide, inc. used by permission of random house, inc.
summer  sAlAd (garden lettuce salad)
from The Art of Simple Food by Alice Waters. Copyright © 2007 by  
Alice Waters. illustrations copyright © 2007 by Patricia Curtan.  
used by permission of Clarkson Potter/Publishers, an imprint of the  
Crown Publishing group, a division of random house, inc.
green herb CeviChe With CuCumber ( Ceviche Verde con Pepino)
from Fiesta at Rick’s: Fabulous Food for Great Times with Friends by rick 
bayless and deann groen bayless. Copyright © 2010 by rick bayless and 
deann groen bayless. used by permission of W. W. norton & Company, inc. 
smoKy PeAnut mole With grilled QuAil   
(Codornices Asadas en Mole de Cacahuate)
from Rick Bayless’s Mexican Kitchen by rick bayless. Copyright © 1996 by 
richard lane bayless. reprinted with the permission of scribner, a division 
of simon & schuster, inc. All rights reserved.
brio Che (from Caviar with brioche and Avocado mousse)
excerpted from The French Laundry Cookbook by thomas Keller.  
Copyright © 1999 by thomas Keller. used by permission of Artisan,  a division of Workman Publishing Co., inc., new york. All rights reserved.PACCheri With AnnA sAntoro’s Pesto trAPAnese   
(Paccheri al Pesto Trapanese di Anna Santoro)
limonCello tirAmisÙ 
from Lidia’s Italy by lidia matticchio bastianich and tanya bastianich  
manuali. Copyright © 2007 by tutti a tavola, llC. used by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, a division of random house, inc.
sPiCy CAlAmAri ( Calamari Piccanti)
from Lidia Cooks from the Heart of Italy by lidia matticchio bastianich and 
tanya bastianich manuali with david nussbaum. Copyright © 2009 by  tutti a tavola, llC. used by permission of Alfred A. Knopf, a division of  
random house, inc.
grilled guineA hen With fregulA  
And blACK truffle vinAigrette
from The Babbo Cookbook by mario batali. Copyright © 2002 by  
mario batali. Photographs copyright © 2002 by Christopher hirsheimer.  
used by permission of Clarkson Potter/Publishers, an imprint of the  
Crown Publishing group, a division of random house, inc.
beet sAlAd With fetA, orAnge, And mint
from Alfred Portale Simple Pleasures by Alfred Portale and Andrew  
friedman. Copyright © 2004 by Alfred Portale. reprinted by permission of 
harper Collins Publishers.240 / James Beard
the James beard foundation honors extraordinary contributions to American food. it is also 
a privilege to acknowledge these chefs in a beautiful book. Kudos to literary agent maura  
Kye-Casella, James beard foundation chairman of the board Woodrow W. Campbell, president  
susan ungaro, vice-president mitchell davis, and executive assistant to the president nancy Kull.
special thanks to Jan longone, curator, American Culinary history Clements library at the univeristy 
of michigan for the Jeremiah tower archives; francois dionot, l’Academie de Cuisine; and len dePas 
of the Photographer’s gallery; Food Arts magazine; and susan delgado with nicholas timmons of 
double image studios; Phyllis richman and verveine Palladin each for access to their Jean-louis 
Palladin materials and contributions.
dedicated individuals support these outstanding chefs. these wizards keep everything moving: 
mandy oser, georgette farkas, A.J. schaller, mylene benmoussa, lisa scott, bret Csencsitz, Kristine  
Keefer, bertram Whitman, chef devin Knell, laura ryan, lauren falk, liz gunnison, mel davis, Adriana  
Jurado, Chef michael rotondo, rachel hayden, tamara Wood, Jen fite, Christian seel, executive 
chef Chris muller, executive sous chef Adam Plitt, varun mehra, Cristina mueller, david Prior, maggie 
boone, rochelle trotter, nicole bartelme, chef gillian lowe, executive sous chef stephen lyons, irene  
hamburger, Pamela lewy, Alaric Campbell, and shelly burgess.
our talented executive chef and culinary director, the late robert d. barker, translated and guided 
our way through America’s most amazing kitchens. Chef Zack engel, linda ellerbee, rolfe tessem, 
erin and billy Jones miller, grace bauer, lanny thomas, harrison tassopoulos, david spielman, daniel 
Zhao, Kim ranjbar, mary Caplinger, Christopher gromek, eloisa rivera Zepeda, marla romash, darryl 
spearman, Anne dalfres, Julia reed, John Pearce, sue grafton, Julie smith, Alix and Paul rico gave 
their encouragement freely. billy, my husband, gets bouquets for his support, patience, and love.
our heartfelt appreciation to the pros at Chronicle books: bill leblond, dawn yanagihara, sarah 
billingsley, Alice Chau, and Cat grishaver with their extraordinary design and marketing teams. they 
brought a cherished vision to beautiful reality.THE PUblISHER WOUlD lIKE TO THANK Susan Friedland   
FOR HER CONTRIbUTION TO THIS bOOK.  acknowledgments