1
Chapter 1
The Vegan 
Japanese 
Kitchen
First of all, I’m so happy you’re here! You’ll find that vegan Japanese 
cuisine is more than sushi and ramen, and it’s easier to make than 
you might expect. Japanese cuisine is not just about the recipes; 
understanding its history and the dedication behind it will change 
your perspective and help you see what the recipes stand for, not just 
how delicious they taste.2 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJapanese Cooking 
and Veganism
Sushi, tempura, and sukiyaki are some of what you might call “typical” Japanese 
food, or washoku, in Japanese. But did you know those dishes are relatively 
new and not traditional Japanese dishes? Some of the most important tech­
niques and the spirit of washoku actually arose from shojin ryori, which is a 
classic, animal product–free style of Japanese cuisine.
When Japanese monks learned Zen Buddhism and brought it to Japan from 
China in the 13th century, they also introduced shojin ryori, which had been 
practiced among Chinese Zen Buddhism monks. Zen Buddhism is the prac­
tice of harmonizing mind and body, and food and cooking are the basis of its 
daily practice. Buddhism teaches abstention from any violence and the death 
of animals, and benevolence toward all creatures, leading some branches of 
Buddhism, including Zen Buddhism, to a plant­based diet. Elimination of animal 
products and the devotion of Japanese Zen monks led to the establishment of 
the unique, sophisticated techniques and flavor profiles of shojin ryori.
One of the essential elements of shojin ryori is a broth called dashi. The 
essential ingredients of dashi are kombu and water, providing subtle umami 
and depth to the dish. The lack of intense flavors produced by animal products 
results in a deeper understanding of plant­based sources of umami; it also pro ­
motes keen attention to the natural flavor of ingredients, leading to the unique 
flavor profile of Japanese cuisine.
Even though shojin ryori has a strong influence on present­ day Japanese 
food, this way of cooking is still mostly practiced by monks. Today, it can be 
challenging to get your hands on plant­based Japanese recipes because many 
dishes include fish products. As the distribution chain developed in ancient 
Japan, kombu from the northern part of Japan met bonito flakes from the south, 
and they fell in love. The dashi made with those two ingredients is widespread 
and is the backbone of today’s Japanese cuisine.
In this book, I veganized the most beloved Japanese recipes with shojin 
ryori  spirit, but with simplified ingredients and methods. I also included tradi­
tional shojin ryori favorites such as Tahini Goma Tofu (page 51), Kenchin Soup 3 The Vegan Japanese Kitchen(page 45), and Vegetable Tempura (page 73) that you can easily make at home 
with ingredients available from your local grocery store.
Modoki ryori, or mock food, is one of the fun aspects of shojin ryori. Under 
the strict guidelines of shojin ryori, monks tried to re ­create their meaty, fishy 
favorites. This approach applies to modern cooking, too. I used vegan staple 
ingredients, like tempeh, chickpeas, and tahini, which aren’t typical Japanese 
ingredients, to produce satisfyingly rich and meaty flavors.
We can learn so many things from shojin ryori and other Japanese traditions. 
Let’s sail out to the world of veganized Japanese cuisine, where you can plumb 
the depths of knowledge and techniques cultivated by Japanese ancestors.
Composing a 
Japanese Meal
What does a typical Japanese meal look like? Eating ramen or sushi every day is 
clearly not the norm. Composing a traditional Japanese meal uses the principle called 
ichiju sansai. Ichiju means “one soup,” and sansai means “three dishes,” typically  
one main dish and two side dishes called okazu, such as Teriyaki Tofu (page 65)  
or Spinach Ohitashi (page 61). Ichiju sansai represents a model for healthy, 
balanced everyday meals. Rice and pickles are core components of the meal, so 
combining soup (ichiju) and three okazu, plus rice and a pickle, completes the 
ichiju sansai principle. Soup, okazu, and pickles all exist to serve the rice, the 
heart of Japanese cuisine.
RICE
Some people say rice is too bland to eat by itself. Although perfectly cooked, 
high­ quality rice tastes slightly sweet and flavorful, eating plain rice can be 
pretty boring, even for hard­ core rice lovers. But, in fact, that plainness is the 
important aspect of rice because it should always be surrounded by soups and 
other dishes and go well with everything. A Japanese meal is all about rice and 4 The Vegan Japanese Cookbookhow to eat it in the most delicious ways possible; it shines when it’s enjoyed with 
flavorful accompaniments.
SOUP
When it comes to soup in ichiju sansai meals, there is a high chance you’re 
talking about miso soup. Miso soup is made with dashi and miso and other 
ingredients like tofu, seaweed, and vegetables. Miso soup is such a forgiving 
recipe, so any vegetables you have on hand work wonderfully as ingredients. 
Other than miso soup, soups made with dashi and salt or soy sauce are com­
monly enjoyed with most Japanese meals.
OKAZU
A satisfying entrée, blanched vegetables, or a crunchy salad can all be called 
okazu. The three classic okazu dishes of a traditional meal usually include one 
protein­rich main dish and two vegetable ­heavy side dishes. The combination 
of okazu dishes is carefully selected to avoid any duplication of ingredients or 
preparation methods: searing, simmering, steaming, deep ­frying, or simply 
eating something raw. All the dishes work together to complement one another 
and make nutritiously balanced meals. As long as it’s serving its purpose, okazu 
doesn’t have to be a traditional Japanese recipe. Japanese cuisine evolved as 
it adopted foreign influences, including Chinese, Indian, and Western flavors. 
You can see how Japanese people incorporated exotic new flavors into their 
daily meals from what they eat today, such as tempura, Japanese ­style curry, 
and katsu.
PICKLES
Fermented pickles, called tsukemono or konomono, provide saltiness and com­
plex flavors, making them an outstanding accompaniment for rice. If you visit 
Japan, you will see so many kinds of pickles from all over the country. They also 
work as a palate cleanser.5 The Vegan Japanese KitchenNOODLES
Noodle dishes are usually not included in the ichiju sansai theory, but I can’t 
deny that noodles are a favorite food of so many people in Japan. Noodle dishes 
are satisfying on their own, but some people like to add side dishes to boost 
nutrition. The most common combinations are ramen and gyoza, soba and tem­
pura, and udon and inari sushi.
Stocking Your Vegan 
Japanese Kitchen
It’s time to stock up and transform your kitchen into a place where the Japanese 
magic happens. Don’t let the long shopping list intimidate you! As you look 
through the recipes in this book, you’ll see that the flavors of Japanese cuisine 
are composed of just a handful of essential ingredients: soy sauce, miso, mirin, 
sake, and rice vinegar. These ingredients are used to bring out the flavor of sea­
sonal vegetables; others just jazz up the flavor. So, let’s start minimal and extend 
your collection to find your own taste.
CONDIMENTS, SPICES, AND STAPLES
In Japanese cuisine, condiments are not for seasoning the ingredients, but for 
enhancing the natural flavor of the dish. Also, these spices and staples will form 
the basis for many of the dishes in this book.
Soy Sauce
Soy sauce is made by fermenting soybeans and wheat with koji culture, a mold 
used to make most of the important Japanese condiments such as soy sauce, 
miso, sake, mirin, and rice vinegar. The deep umami flavor and a mature aroma 
of soy sauce come from the aging process, and its flavor is intensified further by 6 The Vegan Japanese Cookbookcooking. The first step in finding the best­ quality soy sauce is to grab one in a 
glass bottle. Glass prevents oxidation and is typically used for high­ quality prod­
ucts. To keep soy sauce fresh, store it in the refrigerator after opening. Since soy 
sauce is made with wheat, it’s not gluten­free. For those following a gluten­free 
diet, gluten­free tamari is the way to go.
Sake
Sake is a wine made from rice and koji mold and gives umami and savory depth 
to certain dishes. Sake also works as a softening agent to tenderize root vegeta­
bles as they simmer.
Mirin
Mirin is a sweet rice wine made from sweet rice, koji mold, and alcohol. Unlike 
sake, it gives a sweet taste and prevents ingredients from falling apart while they 
simmer. Mirin also provides a beautiful shiny finish to a dish.
Rice Vinegar
Out of all types of vinegar, rice vinegar is the most used in Japanese cooking. Its 
light sweetness and mellow acidity complement rice ­centered Japanese meals. 
The acidity helps cut the salt in a recipe by brightening up the flavor and adding 
complexity to a dish.
Toasted Sesame Oil
There are two kinds of sesame oil: regular and toasted. Regular sesame oil is the 
neutral­flavored oil pressed from raw sesame seeds; toasted sesame oil is made 
from toasted sesame seeds and develops an irresistible nutty aroma during the 
toasting process. Toasted sesame oil is the first choice when making Japanese 
recipes. It works well as a cooking oil, but is best used for finishing recipes to 
enjoy its toasty aroma. There is no need to refrigerate sesame oil after opening 
it, but keep it in dark, dry, and cool place, away from heat or sunlight.
Toasted Sesame Seeds
Like toasted sesame oil, toasted sesame seeds have a deep nutty flavor that raw 
sesame seeds don’t possess, making them an excellent garnish.7 The Vegan Japanese KitchenPanko
The bread crumbs used in Japanese cooking are slightly different from the ones 
used in Western cuisine. Panko is flakier than commonly used bread crumbs 
and makes a beautiful crust around deep ­fried foods, as it turns airy and crispy 
while cooking.
Shichimi Togarashi
If you want to broaden your spicy condiment horizon, this is it. Shichimi tog ­
arashi is a blend of seven spices. The combination varies depending on the 
brand; some examples of the ingredients are red chile pepper, sansho Japanese 
pepper, sesame seeds, orange peel, ginger, seaweed, and hemp seeds. Shichimi 
togarashi gives a peppery, spicy kick and citrusy flavor, adding complexity and 
depth to simple dishes like soba noodles, udon noodles, and rice bowls.
W asabi Paste
A horseradish­ y kick and striking heat make wasabi a unique accompaniment 
to sushi. Unfortunately, not all wasabi tubes are created equal. Wasabi you find 
at many restaurants might have no real wasabi in it—instead, it might just be 
dyed horseradish. Check the ingredient list to make sure it includes wasabi as an 
ingredient, to taste the authentic wasabi flavor.
RICE
Historically, rice was so highly revered in Japan it was considered sacred and 
was even used as currency. You can’t call a meal Japanese without rice. Rice 
and Japanese culture have a long history together, which is why Japanese rice is 
cultivated specifically for the country’s cuisine.
Although short­ grain rice is good enough, if possible, try to find Japanese 
rice, called uruchimai. This is a kind of short­ grain rice, but it’s chewier than 
regular short­ grain rice and has a moist, bouncy texture and subtly sweet flavor, 
making it perfect for sushi and other Japanese dishes.8 The Vegan Japanese CookbookNOODLES
Noodles are a wonderful pantry staple; they’re fast, simple, and affordable.
Ramen Noodles
Ramen are the iconic noodles that make everyone smile, and plant­based food 
lovers are no exception. Ramen noodles are perfectly vegan­friendly and tradi­
tionally made with wheat flour, water, salt, and kansui,which is alkaline liquid. 
Gluten­free ramen noodles are also available. They have a slightly different 
texture but can be used with the same results.
Udon Noodles
Udon noodles are another wheat­based noodle. They are thick and have a 
chewy texture, the perfectly toothsome vehicle for any sauce. You can find pre ­
cooked noodles in the freezer section, and they will be ready in a few minutes. 
Soba Noodles
Soba noodles are made from buckwheat and are beloved by health enthusiasts 
because of their nutritional properties. Traditional soba noodles are made from 
100 percent buckwheat, but others have wheat flour to improve the texture.
REFRIGERA TED PANTRY
Now it’s time for your refrigerator to store some Japanese items. These ingredi­
ents are nice to have on hand to easily whip up Japanese meals.
Miso
Koji is a magical substance; it turns soybeans into not only soy sauce but also 
miso. The most common miso is made from soybeans, salt, and koji­ cultured 
rice called kome koji. Darker ­colored miso—red miso or aka miso—is usually 
saltier than other varieties and has a depth to its taste that comes from the 
longer aging process. Lighter ­colored miso—white miso or shiro miso—is moder ­
ately sweet, thanks to the high content of kome koji, which produces a naturally 
occurring sugar and is less salty and milder in taste. Yellow miso, or Shinshu 
miso, is a good balance between the two and can be used for most recipes.9 The Vegan Japanese KitchenTofu
I love both firm and soft tofu. The robust texture of firm tofu is perfect for 
stir­fries and deep ­fried dishes. Soft tofu’s smooth and creamy texture is suitable 
for making sauces, dips, dressings, and even dessert and smoothies. Silken tofu 
can also be used as soft tofu. Silken tofu is a Japanese ­style tofu, whereas soft 
tofu is Chinese ­style.
Deep-Fried Tofu
Deep ­fried tofu gains a spongy absorbent shell on the surface, which holds 
on to sauce better than the silky surface of regular tofu. Deep ­fried tofu prod­
ucts are sold under different names depending on the size of tofu: atsuage is 
thick deep ­fried tofu; aburaage is thin deep ­fried tofu; and sushi age, or fried 
tofu pockets, are square ­shaped, thin, deep ­fried tofu made specifically for 
inari sushi.
Tempeh
Tempeh is another soy product; but unlike tofu, fermented soybeans are 
bonded together and formed into a cohesive cake. Crumbled tempeh is an  
excellent replacement for ground meat.
Gyoza Wrappers
Gyoza wrappers are thin, white, round sheets of dough made with wheat flour 
that are used to make dumplings. You can usually find them in the freezer or 
refrigerator section in an Asian grocery store. Wonton wrappers, which are thin­
ner, yellow, and square ­shaped, can be used as a substitute, but the results will 
be slightly different. Some wonton wrappers are made with eggs, so check the 
ingredient list before purchasing.10 The Vegan Japanese CookbookUMAMI AND VEGAN COOKING
Have you ever felt like something is missing in a meal? Maybe it’s a 
pinch more of salt or splash of vinegar. Or it might be the elusive other 
flavor: umami.
Umami is the fifth taste, after sweet, sour, bitter, and salty. It’s 
subtle but gives a deep meaty, savory sensation and amplifies a 
dish’s overall flavor. Umami is common in meat, but there are many 
plant-based foods that are rich in it, which is why mastering umami is 
especially useful for vegan cooking.
Umami-causing compounds are common in everyday foods. 
Mushrooms, seaweed, tomatoes, asparagus, and green tea are great 
vegan umami sources. Fermenting soy increases glutamate, which 
is a characteristic of umami, so miso and soy sauce are instant 
umami-enhancing condiments.
Scientists discovered that combining different kinds of com-
pounds intensifies the umami sensation well beyond what a single 
umami compound creates. For example, dashi, glutamate-rich 
kombu, and inosinate-rich bonito flakes are an ideal umami combina-
tion. In the vegan version, guanylate-rich dried shiitake mushrooms 
are used instead of bonito flakes to maximize umami.
MUSHROOMS
Mushrooms are an amazing source of umami. But mushrooms aren’t as aromatic 
and crispy if they are waterlogged. Since most mushrooms at the grocery stores 
are grown indoors, I recommend not rinsing them. Instead, try wiping off any 
dirt with a well­ squeezed damp cloth. If the mushrooms are wild­ grown, they 
need a quick rinse. Then trim the roots and add them to your favorite recipe.11 The Vegan Japanese KitchenShiitake Mushrooms
Fresh shiitake mushrooms have a thick, meaty texture, and dried ones make 
excellent plant­based broth. Sun­ dried shiitake mushrooms contain more  
vitamin D than fresh ones, so use dried for a boost of vitamin D on dark,  
gloomy winter days.
Enoki Mushrooms
These mushrooms have a mild flavor and crunchy texture, and their long, thin 
shape makes them a great noodle substitute.
Shimeji Mushrooms
These have a mild nutty flavor and are versatile—I like them for soup and 
okazu dishes.
Maitake Mushrooms
These are sometimes known as hen of the woods mushrooms, and they 
have an earthy, succulent flavor. They also crisp up beautifully when used in 
stir­fry dishes.
Oyster Mushrooms
Oyster mushrooms have a mild flavor and tender, velvety texture. Try tearing 
them apart instead of cutting them.
King Oyster Mushrooms
These have a thick, meaty texture and hold their shape after cooking, making 
them suitable for steaks, stir ­fries, and grilled dishes.
SEA WEED
Seaweed might be an intimidating element of Japanese cuisine for those who are 
new to it, but there is way more to this ingredient than the seaweed salad you 
see on the salad bar. Once you become friends with seaweed, these low ­calorie, 
nutrient­ dense sea vegetables bring great umami flavor to your daily meals. 
Also, seaweed is a rare source of biologically available vitamin B12 for vegans.12 The Vegan Japanese CookbookKombu
Kombu is a tough, leatherlike seaweed and a fundamental umami element of 
Japanese cuisine. It’s typically used to make dashi but also edible on its own. 
Store in an airtight container after opening the package.
Nori
Nori sheets are wrappers for sushi and rice balls. They have an umami­rich, 
savory flavor and crispy texture, but they quickly become soft and soggy after 
opening the package. Seal tightly in a resealable bag or airtight container and 
store in a dark, dry place. Seasoned nori sheets are used for Korean recipes, so 
make sure to grab plain nori sheets to make sushi.
W akame
Fresh wakame is in season in spring, but dried wakame is available all year 
round. It’s a versatile seaweed used for salad, miso soup, and Wakame and 
Cucumber Sunomono (page 115). Rehydrate dried wakame before use—just note 
that it expands to 10 to 12 times its original size after soaking.
OTHER PRODUCE
Here are some of the vegetables commonly used in the Japanese kitchen. 
Give these vegetables some love, so they will love you back with their 
unmatched flavors.
Ginger
Ginger gives a spicy kick to any dish. Grated ginger is one of the most used  
garnishes in Japanese cooking, from rice to tofu, to make a meal sing.
Japanese Daikon Radish
Daikon is a long white root vegetable with a mild flavor and a touch of spiciness. 
Daikon can be enjoyed both raw and cooked. Salads are great for enjoying the 
juicy, crispy texture of daikon, but simmering makes them nice and tender and 
perfect as the absorbent base for any comforting sauce or dish made with dashi.13 The Vegan Japanese KitchenKabocha Squash
Kabocha squash has a bright orange flesh and thick, dark green skin and tastes 
like a hybrid between a sweet potato and a chestnut. Don’t let the tough skin of 
kabocha squash scare you. Place the edge of your knife onto the skin and use 
a rocking motion. All you need is a tiny bit of push, and the blade will sink into 
the squash with every back ­and­forth movement.
Japanese Sweet Pota to
Japanese sweet potatoes, or satsumaimo, have a creamy, pale yellow interior 
and dark reddish­purple skin, and they taste sweeter than regular sweet pota­
toes. Slowly baked sweet potato, called yaki imo, is a simple wholesome snack 
that’s very popular during Japanese winters.
Burdock Root
Burdock root, or gobo, is a branch­like, skinny, long root vegetable with a 
unique earthy flavor and crunchy texture. Gobo is usually sold with dirt  
covering the surface. If there’s still dirt on it after washing, use the back of your 
knife to gently scrape off the dirt but not the skin. The skin is where most of the 
flavor is.
Lotus Root
Lotus root is a slightly sweet, mild­flavored, crunchy root vegetable, and its 
holes makes it fun to look at. Lotus roots turn dark purple when exposed to 
air. Soaking peeled and sliced lotus roots in vinegar water before use prevents 
discoloration and brightens up the color.
Eggplant
Eggplant might be bland by itself, but it becomes meaty and absorbent when 
cooked. Gently massaging the flesh with salt and patting dry any excess mois­
ture, or soaking the slices in water after they are cut, reduces the eggplant’s 
bitterness. Skinny Japanese eggplant is less bitter than other varieties and is 
commonly used in Japan, but the plump globe eggplant most common in gro ­
cery stores works as well.14 The Vegan Japanese CookbookEdamame
Edamame are tender, crisp, green immature soybeans packed with complete 
protein, which means they contain all the essential amino acids that our bodies 
need. Frozen shelled edamame are a convenient staple to keep in your freezer. 
If you are lucky enough to get your hand on fresh edamame in pods, cook and 
enjoy them within a couple of days, as their flavor starts to lessen as soon as 
they’re picked.
Cabbage
Cabbage is an affordable, versatile, and long ­lasting vegetable widely used in 
Japanese recipes, like soups, stir ­fries, and simmered dishes. Crunchy and 
refreshing shredded cabbage is a staple side dish for fried dishes like katsu.
Yuzu
Yuzu is a round citrus that looks similar to a tangerine but with yellow skin. The 
juice is sour and  bitter, so they’re not suitable for eating as a dessert. Yuzu is one 
of the key fragrant notes in Japanese cuisine, and it’s used a lot for its unique, 
delightful aroma to add refreshing citrus flavor to many dishes. Add a splash of 
juice or sprinkle the grated zest like you would do with lemon to give any dish a 
distinctly Japanese flair. Bottled yuzu juice is available, but grab a whole fruit if 
possible, since fresh yuzu juice and peel are always the most fragrant.
HELPFUL VEGAN INGREDIENTS
Here are some useful staple ingredients that work wonderfully to veganize tradi­
tional Japanese recipes.
Soy Milk
Out of all the plant­based milks, soy milk is used the most in Japanese cuisine. It 
goes well with recipes that call for tofu and other soy products. Soy milk comes 
in various flavors, but I used unsweetened soy milk for the recipes in this book.
Arrowroot Powder
Kuzu (or sometimes Kudzu) root powder is a starchy powder used as a thicken­
ing agent in Japanese cuisine, but most grocery stores don’t carry it. Arrowroot 
is my go ­to substitute for kuzu.15 The Vegan Japanese KitchenTahini
Tahini is a light and smooth replacement for toasted sesame butter, a common 
ingredient of Japanese cuisine.
Equipping Your Kitchen
The best lesson I learned from my macrobiotic cooking guru is to use 
high­ quality kitchen tools. I didn’t quite understand what this meant at first, 
but as I pursued my passion for cooking, it became clear. Cooking is an art that 
requires the best of you, your tools, and your ingredients. Great tools not only 
bring the best results but also last a long time, long enough to fit in your hands 
and work almost like an extension of your body. You don’t need expensive tools; 
love and care are what matters. So, pick up your favorite tools and be friends 
with them. Here are my suggestions.
KNIVES
A home cook needs one good knife that comfortably fits in your hand, like 
a wand for a wizard channeling their magic. My go ­to is the santoku knife: a 
lightweight Japanese ­style knife that means “three uses,” for cutting meat, fish, 
and vegetables. The blade has a flat edge, slightly curved toward the end, with 
a rounded tip, making santoku suitable for slicing vegetables in a single down­
ward stroke.
RICE COOKER
Creating a Japanese meal won’t be complete without a bowl of rice, so cooking 
rice is a basic yet important task for every Japanese home cook. That is why a 
rice cooker is an essential for every kitchen in Japan, to prepare perfectly fluffy 
and chewy rice for every meal. But a rice cooker is not a must­have, and I’ll 
share some tips to cooking rice perfectly on the stovetop in chapter 2.16 The Vegan Japanese CookbookRICE PADDLE
When it comes to handling the soft and bouncy texture of cooked Japanese 
rice, a fork or spoon just won’t cut it. The surface of a rice paddle is perfect for 
scooping, mixing, and spreading rice without making it mushy. Wet the rice 
paddle before use.
SUSHI MA T
If you are a sushi lover, a bamboo sushi mat, called makisu, is going to be your 
best friend. Bamboo sushi mats get moldy easily, so wash thoroughly and dry 
completely after each use. No sushi mat? No worries. A piece of plastic wrap or 
parchment paper is a good replacement. Cut a piece of plastic wrap or parch­
ment paper bigger than the size of a nori sheet and roll like you would do with a 
sushi mat. You can even cut through the plastic wrap or parchment paper when 
cutting the sushi roll, holding it together.
SERVING PIECES
Plating and presentation are a fun part of the cooking process. If you have ever 
visited a traditional Japanese restaurant, you might be surprised by how many 
small bowls and plates a full meal consists of. Each dish is served beautifully on 
its own plate with well­assorted garnishes: rice in a rice bowl, called ochawan; 
miso soup in a soup bowl, called shiruwan; an entrée on medium­ size plates; 
sides and pickles on small plates, called mamezara, or small bowls, called 
kobachi; and chopsticks placed on a chopstick rest, called hashioki. It can be 
puzzling for many visitors to Japan, but it’s appropriate to pick up a soup bowl 
and slurp directly from the bowl, since no spoons are served with soups in most 
traditional restaurants. If you love noodle dishes, sauce bowls are handy when 
dipping noodles into a sauce.17 The Vegan Japanese KitchenUseful Techniques
Basic cooking techniques are something you can learn and use for the rest of 
your life—here are some Japanese chefs’ secrets for easier and simpler cooking.
CUTTING
Don’t underestimate the power of properly cutting ingredients. Cutting has been 
an important cooking technique in Japanese cooking history; that’s why sashimi 
has an established position in Japanese cuisine. If your ingredients are uniformly 
cut, they’ll cook in the same amount of time and be evenly seasoned, making 
every bite enjoyable. Here are some basic vegetable cuts I use in this book.
Slicing: Vegetables taste slightly different depending on the parts. So I like to 
slice diagonally to bring all of a vegetable’s flavor into each bite.
Matchsticks: Cutting into matchsticks, or julienne, means cutting food into  
1/8­ to 1/16­inch strips. Lay the sliced vegetables flat and thinly slice lengthwise.
Mincing: Mincing is commonly used for onion, garlic, and ginger. Arrange 
matchsticks aligned together and cut crosswise, resulting in a very 
small dice.
Half-moon: A half ­moon cut is used for cylinder ­shaped vegetables such as 
carrots, cucumbers, and zucchinis. Slice vegetables crosswise into rounds 
and then cut in halves.
Quarter-rounds: Quarter ­rounds are used for thick cylinder ­shaped vegeta­
bles, such as daikon radish and eggplant. Cut half ­moons in halves to achieve 
quarter ­rounds.
Wedges: Wedge cuts are used for round vegetables such as tomatoes, onions, 
potatoes, and citrus.18 The Vegan Japanese CookbookPRESSING TOFU
Tofu can be used just by draining the water from the package, but if you are 
searing, stir ­frying, or puréeing, pressing tofu is an important step to yield the 
texture and flavor you’re looking for. If your recipe notes “pressed to drain” 
tofu, try one of the following methods.
Weight
Wrap the tofu with a paper towel and place it between two plates. Place a 
weight, such as books or cans of food, on top of the plates to squeeze out the 
excess moisture for 30 minutes or preferably overnight. The longer the pressing 
time, the thicker the tofu becomes. I like to start pressing the day before so that 
thick, creamy tofu is ready in the morning.
Microw a ve
Place the tofu in a microwave ­safe dish and microwave for 1 to 2 minutes, until 
the tofu is warmed through. Let cool, then pat dry any excess moisture with a 
paper towel.
Boiling
It might sound counterintuitive, but boiling has a draining effect on tofu. Bring a 
medium pot of water to a boil over medium­high heat. Add the block of tofu and 
bring it to a boil again. Boil for about 3 minutes, then carefully drain in a colan­
der and let cool.
Hand Press
It’s an old­fashioned way, but it works great for firm tofu. Over the sink, use 
your palms to squeeze the tofu gently to press out any excess water. Pat dry with 
a paper towel, if necessary. I like to use hand­pressed tofu in the recipes that 
call for crumbled tofu, so that I don’t have to be careful not to let tofu fall apart 
while squeezing.19 The Vegan Japanese KitchenTOASTING SESAME SEEDS
Sesame seeds burst with flavor and aroma when they are toasted. Place sesame 
seeds in a dry medium skillet over medium heat until they start to pop, stirring 
the seeds or shaking the pan occasionally, for 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the 
heat when they are fragrant and golden brown. Cool slightly before adding to 
your favorite recipe.
FRYING
There’s a reason everyone loves fried food—the texture cannot be equaled by 
other cooking methods. Frying might seem intimidating, but once you get the 
hang of it, you’ll feel perfectly comfortable frying at home.
Deep-Frying
Deep ­frying is one of the most indulgent cooking methods. In a deep pot or 
fryer, pour enough oil to submerge food, but less than halfway to the top of the 
pot. Heat the oil over medium heat until it reaches the desired temperature. 
Japanese chefs tell the temperature of the oil by sticking the tip of dry wooden 
cooking chopsticks into the oil, or dropping a small amount of batter or bread 
crumbs (see the following indicators). Of course, you can also use a frying or 
probe thermometer that is compatible with high temperatures.
Low temperature (below 320°F) is preferable for cooking root vegetables that 
need long, slow cooking. At this temperature, fine bubbles slowly start to appear 
from the end of chopsticks, a drop of batter hits the bottom and then rises to the 
surface, and bread crumbs slowly spread.
Medium temperature (between 338°F and 356°F) is optimal for most fried 
foods. At this temperature, bubbles continuously pop out from the end of chop ­
sticks, a drop of batter sinks halfway and then rises, and bread crumbs spread 
with a bubbling sound.
High temperature (above 374°F) is used when deep ­frying ingredients twice—
first, at a low temperature to cook through and, second at a high temperature to 
crisp up the ingredients. At this temperature, coarse bubbles burst out from the 
end of chopsticks, a drop of batter floats and immediately browns, and bread 
crumbs spread with an active bubbling sound.20 The Vegan Japanese CookbookShallow-Frying
Shallow ­frying is an excellent alternative to deep ­frying. Ingredients cook fast, it 
saves cooking oil, and it is easy to clean up afterward. In a pot, add 1/2 to 1 inch 
of oil and shallow ­fry both sides of the ingredients. This method is not suitable 
for tempura, but sufficient for katsu and karaage.
THE IMPORTANCE OF PRESENTATION
Clearly, we eat with our eyes, and the visual cues are as powerful as the 
taste. People love photos of beautifully prepared food and are willing to 
go to quite a bit of effort to see and experience the real thing. Ancient 
Japanese people knew the importance of presentation and dedicated 
their time and energy to it. We can learn from them and their presenta-
tion theory, called goshoku. This idea draws on the Chinese philosophy 
of yin and yang and the five elements. The term goshoku means “five 
colors”: white, black, yellow, red, and blue (an old way of saying green). 
Including all five colors in a meal provides a beautiful and nutrition-
ally well-balanced meal. Some examples of these foods include rice, 
noodles, white sesame seeds, tofu, onion, and daikon for white; carrot, 
kabocha squash, miso, and corn for yellow; tomato, beet, red bell 
pepper, and watermelon for red; and dark leafy greens, asparagus, and 
celery for green. Black food is the rarest, so it is important to be mindful 
when adding them to a dish. Black sesame seeds, seaweeds, soba noo-
dles, and mushrooms will all do the trick. So next time you compose a 
meal, use the goshoku theory to make your meal healthier and lovelier.21 The Vegan Japanese KitchenAbout the Recipes
In the chapters that follow, I have selected the most beloved Japanese home 
cuisine staples to bring an authentic Japanese home ­cooking experience to your 
kitchen. Many of them are what I ate at home growing up. I simplified, vega­
nized, and polished the recipes so you don’t have to!
Since the recipes in this cookbook are meant be mixed and matched to 
compose an ichiju sansai meal, the portion sizes might be a bit smaller than 
you might expect, especially the soups, sides, and small dishes in chapter 3. So 
have fun picking the dishes according to your mood and make your own ichiju 
sansai meal, or make a big batch to enjoy. Adding Japanese side dishes to any 
non­Japanese meal is also a great idea.
To make your cooking experience easy and flexible, I included the following 
tips in many of the recipes.
Ingredient tip: I offer recommendations and explanations for unique Japanese 
ingredients, or substitution ideas with a slightly different but still deli­
cious result.
Prep tip: Tips, shortcuts, or recommendations to help you achieve success.
Variation tip: Simple swap ideas to increase the versatility and expand the 
flavor combinations of the recipe with the ingredients you already have.
So now, let’s relax and take a journey into the world of vegan Japanese cuisine!Clockwise from top: Kombu Shiitake Dashi, 25 m Crunchy Chile Oil, 35 m Homemade Furikake, 32 m 
Creamy Sesame Dressing, 38 m Japanese Vegan Tonkatsu Sauce, 38
23
Chapter 2
The Basics
Kombu Dashi m 24
Kombu Shiitake Dashi m 25
Japanese White Rice m 26
Japanese Brown Rice m 28
Mentsuyu (Instant Noodle Soup Concentrate) m 30
Tofu Mayonnaise m 31
Homemade Furikake m 32
Juicy Kombu Furikake m 33
Japanese Vegan Tonkatsu Sauce m 34
Crunchy Chile Oil m 35
Homemade Udon Noodles m 36
Creamy Sesame Dressing m 3824 The Vegan Japanese CookbookKombu Dashi
PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO 1 HOUR TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 10 TO 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 CUPS
Mastering dashi means mastering umami in Japanese dishes. Its subtle but incompa­
rable flavor adds umami to any dish. It is used in dishes such as Clear Soup (page 43) 
and Daikon Salad (page 55). Kombu dashi is the simplest form of dashi and making it 
is as easy as steeping tea. The basic ratio of dried kombu is 1 percent of the weight of 
the water used, so keep this in mind if you’re making a bigger batch.
1 (4-by-7 inch) piece 
dried kombu 
(0.35 ounce/  
10 grams)4 cups room-  
temperature water
1. Use a well­ squeezed damp cloth to briefly and gently wipe the surface of 
the kombu.
2. In a medium pot, combine the water and kombu and soak for 30 minutes in 
warmer weather or 1 hour in colder weather. (It takes more time for the kombu 
to absorb water in colder water.) The soaked kombu should be soft and slightly 
slippery to the touch.
3. Bring the water to a gentle simmer over medium­low heat and cook for 10 to 
20 minutes, until the kombu becomes soft. It’s important not to bring the mixture 
to a vigorous boil to prevent the dashi from becoming slimy and bitter.
4. Remove the kombu (discard or keep to make Juicy Kombu Furikake, page 33).  
The kombu dashi is ready to use in recipes. It can be cooled, covered, and refrig ­
erated for up to 3 days, but it is best if used immediately. It can also be frozen and 
enjoyed within 2 weeks.
PREP TIP:  There might be a white powdery substance on the surface of kombu, but there 
is no need to wipe it off. It’s called mannitol and is an umami-rich compound you want 
to keep.
PREP TIP:  Make a cold brew of kombu dashi. Just soak the kombu and water in the refriger -
ator overnight (12 hours), and your kombu dashi is ready in the morning. Unlike the Kombu 
Shiitake Dashi (page 25), it is not necessary to heat it before using.
Per serving (1 cup): Calories: 13; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 65mg; Carbohydrates: 2g; 
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 0mg25 The BasicsKombu Shiitake Dashi
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES, PLUS 5 HOURS TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 CUPS
Umami is intensified by combining different kinds of amino acids. The traditional 
dashi pairing of kombu and bonito flakes is a complementary combination. It is 
common in Japanese cuisine because they are rich in amino acids and contain 
different types of amino acids. To make vegan dashi, dried shiitake mushrooms 
are used instead of bonito flakes.
2 dried shiitake 
mushrooms1 (4-by-7-inch) piece 
dried kombu 
(0.35 ounce/  
10 grams)4 cups room-  
temperature water
1. Use a well­ squeezed damp cloth to briefly and gently clean the surface of the 
mushrooms and kombu.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the mushrooms, kombu, and water. Refrigerate and 
soak for at least 5 hours.
3. Transfer the mixture to a medium pot and bring to a gentle simmer over 
medium­low heat.
4. Remove the kombu just before the water starts to boil. This prevents the dashi 
from getting slimy. Simmer for about 20 minutes.
5. Using a fine ­mesh strainer, strain the liquid. The kombu shiitake dashi is ready to 
use in recipes. It can be cooled, covered, and refrigerated for up to 3 days, but it is 
best if used immediately. It can also be frozen and enjoyed within 2 weeks.
PREP TIP:  Kombu shiitake dashi can be made by cold brew. Soak all the ingredients over -
night in the refrigerator, and the umami-rich dashi is ready in the morning. Dashi made 
by hot brew tastes strong and bold, and one made by cold brew tastes clear and crisp. 
Cold-brew kombu shiitake dashi is typically used in recipes where it is cooked. If using in a 
recipe where it will not be heated, make sure to first bring the dashi to a boil over medium 
heat, then gently simmer for 5 minutes before using, since shiitake mushrooms are not 
meant to be eaten raw.
Per serving (1 cup): Calories: 17; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 91mg; Carbohydrates: 3g; 
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 0mg26 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJapanese White Rice
PREP TIME: 40 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO 1 HOUR TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 5 TO 6 CUPS
Perfectly steamed rice makes everything taste better. However, the definition of 
perfection relies on your preferences, and how the rice turns out changes depend­
ing on the pot you use, the amount of water you add, and how you cook it. It may 
take a few times to understand your pot and how it cooks the rice. More water 
makes rice softer, and less water makes it bouncier, which is suitable for making 
sushi rice. So, adjust the recipe to your preference. Depending on how much rice 
or sushi rice you make, you might need to tweak the quantities. The cook time is 
the same regardless of the quantity you are making.
2 cups Japanese white 
rice or short-grain 
white rice2 to 2 1/2 cups cold water
Pinch salt
1. Place the rice in a large bowl and add enough cold water to cover it. Use your 
hands to swirl the rice in a circular motion a few times. The water will quickly 
become cloudy; carefully pour off the water. Repeat this two or three more times, 
swirling it for longer each time until the water runs clear. Once the water is clear, 
drain, then cover with water and soak at room temperature—for 30 minutes in 
warmer weather or up to 1 hour in colder weather—until the rice grains turn white. 
Soaking time varies because colder water takes longer for the rice to absorb. Drain 
the rice well in a fine ­mesh strainer.
2. Place the rice in a medium pot and add the cold water. (The basic rice ­to­water 
ratio is 1 to 1–1.25.) Cover and cook over medium heat until it starts to boil and 
steam starts to escape from the lid then sprinkle in the salt. Let boil for 1 minute, 
then reduce the heat to low. Continue cooking, covered, for 10 minutes.
3. Check to see if all the water has been absorbed. If there is water remaining, cover 
and continue cooking until it is absorbed, checking it every 1 to 2 minutes.
4. Once the water is absorbed, remove the pot from the heat and set aside, covered, 
for 10 minutes to continue steaming.27 The Basics5. Using a rice paddle or spatula, mix the rice to even out the texture. When mixing, 
use a cutting motion, instead of pressing or pushing, to prevent the rice from 
becoming mushy. Serve in rice bowls and enjoy with sides of okazu.
VARIATION TIP:  Some rice vinegar, coconut sugar, and salt are all that are needed to trans-
form plain rice into sushi rice. For every 1 cup of hot rice, use 2 tablespoons of rice vinegar, 
1/2 tablespoon of coconut sugar, and a pinch of salt. The key to excellent sushi rice is to use 
steaming-hot rice, as it absorbs the flavors of the ingredients better. In a small bowl, whisk 
together the rice vinegar, coconut sugar, and salt. Place the hot rice in a large bowl and 
pour the vinegar mixture over it. Use a rice paddle or spatula to combine.
FOR 2 CUPS 
SUSHI RICEFOR 3 CUPS 
SUSHI RICEFOR 4 CUPS 
SUSHI RICEFOR 5 CUPS 
SUSHI RICE
JAPANESE OR SHORT-
GRAIN WHITE RICE2 cups 
cooked3 cups 
cooked4 cups cooked 5 cups cooked
RICE VINEGAR ¼ cup ¼ cup plus  
2 tablespoons½ cup½ cup plus  
2 tablespoons
COCONUT SUGAR 1 tablespoon1½ table-
spoons2 tablespoons2½ table-
spoons
SALT A pinch of salt, plus more to taste
Per serving (1 cup): Calories: 239; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 2mg; Carbohydrates: 53g; 
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 4g; Calcium: 1mg28 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJapanese Brown Rice
PREP TIME: 60 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES OR OVERNIGHT TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 40 MINUTES m MAKE S 5 TO 6 CUPS
The texture of brown rice is greatly affected by how you cook it. In this recipe, 
I share two ways to cook brown rice: in a regular pot and in a pressure cooker. 
Using a pot makes the rice fluffy and bouncy, and the pressure cooker makes it 
soft and chewy.
2 cups Japanese brown 
rice or short-grain 
brown rice2 1/2 cups plus 
1 1/2 tablespoons cold 
water (for a pressure 
cooker) or 3 cups cold 
water (for a pot)Pinch salt
1. Place the brown rice in a large bowl and look through the grains to remove any 
grit or hulls. Add enough cold water to cover it. Use your hands to swirl the rice 
in a circular motion a few times. The water will quickly become cloudy after a 
few swirls; carefully pour off the water. (This prevents the rice from absorbing the 
unpleasant odor of the rice bran dissolved into the rinsing water.) Repeat this two 
or three more times, swirling it for longer each time until the water runs clear. 
Once the water is clear, drain, then cover with water and soak at room tempera­
ture for 30 minutes or preferably overnight. Drain the rice well in a fine ­mesh 
strainer.
2. To cook the rice in a pot: Place the rice in a medium pot and add the cold 
water. (The basic rice ­to­water ratio is 1 to 1.5–2.) Cook over medium heat until it 
boils, then sprinkle in the salt. Cover and increase the heat to medium­high. Cook 
until steam starts to escape from the lid. Let boil for 1 minute, then reduce the 
heat to low. Continue cooking, covered, for 30 minutes.
3. Check to see if all the water has been absorbed. If there is water remaining, cover 
and continue cooking until it is absorbed, checking it every 1 to 2 minutes.
4. Once the water is absorbed, remove the pot from the heat and set aside, covered, 
for 10 minutes to continue steaming.29 The Basics5. Using a rice paddle or spatula, mix the rice to even out the texture. When mixing, 
use a cutting motion, instead of pressing or pushing, to prevent the rice from 
becoming mushy.
6. To cook the rice in a pressure cooker: If using a stovetop pressure cooker, 
place the rinsed and soaked rice in the pressure cooker and add the cold water. 
(The basic rice ­to­water ratio is 1 to 1–1.5.) Cook over medium heat until it comes 
to a boil. Sprinkle in the salt and lock the lid into place. Increase the heat to 
high until it reaches high pressure, then reduce the heat to low and cook for 
25 minutes. If using an electric pressure cooker, place the rice, water, and 
salt in the pressure cooker. Set the pressure to High and the time to 25 minutes. 
(Pressure cookers differ depending on the brand, so follow your pressure cooker’s 
instructions.) When cooking is complete, naturally release the pressure.
7. Once the pressure is released, uncover and mix the rice with a rice paddle or spat­
ula to even out the texture.
VARIATION TIP:  Brown rice makes delicious sushi rice, too. For every 1 cup of hot rice, use 
2 tablespoons of rice vinegar, 1/2 tablespoon of coconut sugar, and a pinch of salt. Be sure 
to use steaming-hot rice, as it absorbs the flavors of the ingredients better. In a small bowl, 
whisk together the rice vinegar, coconut sugar, and salt. Place the hot rice in a large bowl 
and pour the vinegar mixture over it. Use a rice paddle or spatula to combine.
FOR 2 CUPS 
SUSHI RICEFOR 3 CUPS 
SUSHI RICEFOR 4 CUPS  
SUSHI RICEFOR 5 CUPS 
SUSHI RICE
JAPANESE OR SHORT-
GRAIN BROWN RICE2 cups 
cooked3 cups 
cooked4 cups cooked 5 cups cooked
RICE VINEGAR ¼ cup ¼ cup plus  
2 tablespoons½ cup½ cup plus  
2 tablespoons
COCONUT SUGAR 1 tablespoon1½ table-
spoons2 tablespoons2½ table-
spoons
SALT A pinch of salt plus more to taste
Per serving (1 cup): Calories: 229; T otal fat: 2g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 3mg; Carbohydrates: 48g; 
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 5g; Calcium: 21mg30 The Vegan Japanese CookbookMentsuyu (Instant Noodle 
Soup Concentra te)
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 24 HOURS TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES m MAKE S 11/2 CUPS
Mentsuyu means “sauce for noodles.” It is a sweet and savory soy ­based soup 
concentrate used to make a dipping sauce or soup for udon and soba noodles. The 
soy sauce is sweetened with mirin and soaked with kombu and shiitake for a day 
to fully absorb the dashi flavor. The best part of having mentsuyu in your refrigera­
tor is that it allows for making an umami­packed sauce in a few minutes.
2 dried shiitake 
mushrooms1 (4-by-3.5-inch) piece 
dried kombu1 cup soy sauce
1 cup mirin
1. Use a well­ squeezed damp cloth to gently wipe the mushrooms and kombu.
2. In medium bowl, combine the soy sauce, mirin, mushrooms, and kombu. Cover 
the surface of the liquid with a piece of plastic wrap so the shiitake is submerged 
in the liquid. Refrigerate for 24 hours.
3. Place a fine ­mesh strainer over a medium saucepan and strain the mixture, dis­
carding the mushrooms and kombu.
4. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat, then simmer for 5 minutes to cook 
off the alcohol from the mirin. If needed, reduce the heat to low to maintain a 
gentle simmer. After 5 minutes, remove the pan from the heat and let cool.
5. Transfer the mixture into a clean jar with an airtight lid. Refrigerate, if not using 
immediately, for up to 3 weeks. Use for any recipe you like.
PREP TIP:  T o make a dipping sauce for cold noodles, combine 1 part mentsuyu and 1 to 
2 parts water. For a warm noodle soup, combine 1 part mentsuyu and 3 to 4 parts warm 
water and add cooked soba or udon noodles to enjoy. Also try it with Stir-Fried Udon Noo-
dles (page 102) and Grated Radish Soba (page 104). Mentsuyu is also good for seasoning 
vegetable stir-fries or drizzling over rice bowls.
Per serving (2 tablespoons): Calories: 45; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 821mg; 
Carbohydrates: 4g; Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 9mg31 The BasicsTofu Ma yonnaise
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO CHILL m MAKES 1 CUP
Mayonnaise is a beloved condiment in Japan. It’s used in various recipes, like 
okonomiyaki and stir ­fries, and dipping karaage into mayonnaise is a guilty 
pleasure for many Japanese people. It’s not uncommon to see Japanese ­style 
mayonnaise in the grocery store. Its umami­rich creamy flavor attracts people 
worldwide. I “healthified” and veganized the recipe using velvety ­smooth silken 
tofu. Add this to sandwiches, rice balls, salads, or anything else you desire.
1/2 (14-ounce) package 
silken tofu or soft 
tofu, pressed to drain
1 tablespoon miso 
(I prefer  
yellow miso)1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
3 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
1 teaspoon coconut sugar1 teaspoon onion powder
1/2 teaspoon 
garlic powder
Sea salt
1. In a blender, combine the tofu, miso, oil, rice vinegar, coconut sugar, onion 
powder, garlic powder, and salt and puree until smooth. Add more salt to taste, 
if needed.
2. For best results, refrigerate for 30 minutes to firm up and become creamy in con­
sistency. Refrigerate in an airtight container and enjoy within 3 to 4 days.
Per serving: Calories: 20; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 41mg; Carbohydrates: 1g; Sugar: 0g; 
Fiber: 0g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 15mg32 The Vegan Japanese CookbookHomemade Furikake
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 8 MINUTES m MAKE S 1/4 CUP
Furikake is a Japanese dry seasoning mix used to flavor rice, either by sprinkling it 
over or mixing it in. It adds crunch and a salty, savory flavor to any dish you add it 
to. Furikake, with its healthy blend of sesame seeds and nori, is also a wonderful 
way to add extra nutrition. Also, if you have nori sheets that have been sitting in 
your pantry for months and are no longer crisp, they are great to use, as they will 
crisp up when they are cooked.
1 nori sheet
1 tablespoon white 
sesame seeds1 tablespoon black 
sesame seeds
1 teaspoon soy sauce1 teaspoon mirin
1/2 teaspoon 
garlic powder
1. Tear the nori into small pieces.
2. In a dry, medium skillet over medium heat, toast the white and black sesame 
seeds until fragment, swirling the skillet occasionally, 3 to 5 minutes.
3. Add the nori pieces, soy sauce, mirin, and garlic powder and cook until the liquid 
has cooked off, 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a plate and spread the furikake evenly 
across the plate to cool and crisp up.
4. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator and use within 2 to 3 days.
Per serving (1 teaspoon): Calories: 9; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 25mg; Carbohydrates: 
0g; Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 0g; Calcium: 2mg33 The BasicsJuicy Kombu Furikake
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 1/4 CUP
Kombu kelp is used to make dashi, but what should you do with the soaked 
kombu afterward? This leathery ­looking umami­packed seaweed is still delicious, 
and when softly simmered, it becomes a type of condiment called tsukudani. It 
becomes tender and juicy with vinegar and a gentle simmering. Rice balls made 
with kombu tsukudani are a popular item at convenience stores in Japan.
1 (4-by-8-inch) 
piece kombu 
(0.7 ounce/40 grams 
soaked or 
0.35 ounce/10 grams 
unsoaked), cut into 
thin strips1/2 cup water
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons sake
2 tablespoons mirin
2 tablespoons 
rice vinegar1 teaspoon coconut sugar
1 teaspoon toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)
1. In a small saucepan over medium heat, combine the kombu, water, soy sauce, 
sake, mirin, rice vinegar, and coconut sugar. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat 
to low and simmer until most of the liquid has cooked off and the kombu becomes 
tender (and can be easily pierced with a fork or your nail), about 15 minutes. If the 
kombu isn’t tender enough, add a splash of water and cook further until it reaches 
your desired consistency. The cooking time may vary depending on the kombu 
you use.
2. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the sesame seeds and let cool. Serve 
with rice.
Per serving (1/4 cup): Calories: 143; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 1,781mg; Carbohydrates: 
13g; Sugar: 7g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 3g; Calcium: 32mg34 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJapanese Vegan 
Tonka tsu Sauce
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES m MAKE S 2/3 CUP
Deep ­fried dishes like katsu aren’t complete without tonkatsu sauce. It is a fruit­ 
and vegetable ­based sauce, and it tastes like a thick, sweet Worcestershire sauce. 
I’ve re ­created the original tonkatsu sauce into an easy homemade recipe. This 
sauce is so versatile, it can be enjoyed with katsu, korokke, or okonomiyaki, or 
stir­fried with vegetables and noodles. The possibilities are endless.
1/ 4 cup tomato paste
1/ 4 cup balsamic vinegar
3 tablespoons soy sauce1 tablespoon 
garlic powder
2 teaspoons 
onion powder
4 teaspoons maple syrup1/ 4 cup water
1/ 4 teaspoon sea salt
Dash freshly ground 
black pepper
1. In a small saucepan, whisk together the tomato paste, balsamic vinegar, soy sauce, 
garlic powder, onion powder, maple syrup, water, salt, and pepper.
2. Bring to a boil over medium heat and simmer for about 5 minutes, stirring occa­
sionally, until the sourness of the vinegar is cooked off. Let cool and transfer into a 
clean, airtight jar. Refrigerate and enjoy within 1 to 2 weeks.
Per serving (2 tablespoons): Calories: 42; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 502mg; 
Carbohydrates: 9g; Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 18mg35 The BasicsCrunchy ChilE Oil
PREP TIME: 45 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 25 TO 35 MINUTES m MAKES 1 CUP
Spicy, savory, and saucy, this crunchy chile oil is a great condiment to have on 
hand to add a nice texture and heat to any dish you like, from cooked noodles to 
steamed dumplings. The best thing about homemade condiments is that you have 
control over the heat level, so add more or less red pepper flakes for your desired 
punchiness.
3/ 4 cup extra-virgin 
olive oil
1/2 leek, white and light 
green parts, cut into 
1/8-inch-thick slices
10 garlic cloves, 
thinly sliced1/ 4 cup canned 
fried onions
2 tablespoons toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)
1 (2-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and minced2 teaspoons red 
pepper flakes
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon coconut sugar
Pinch sea salt
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine the olive oil, leek, and garlic. 
Cook until it starts to sizzle, then reduce the heat to low, if necessary, to maintain 
a gentle simmer. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the leek and garlic become 
golden brown and crispy, about 30 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, combine the fried onions, sesame seeds, ginger, 
red pepper flakes, soy sauce, coconut sugar, and salt.
3. Place a fine ­mesh sieve over the fried onion mixture. Carefully strain the hot oil 
into the fried onion mixture. Do not discard the strained leek and garlic; set aside 
to cool completely in the sieve to crisp up.
4. Add the leeks and garlic back into the oil and add the sesame oil. Mix well and 
transfer to a clean, airtight jar. Refrigerate and enjoy within 2 to 3 weeks.
Per serving (1 tablespoon): Calories: 110; T otal fat: 11g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 43mg; 
Carbohydrates: 2g; Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 0g; Calcium: 7mg36 The Vegan Japanese CookbookHomemade Udon Noodles
PREP TIME: 70 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO REST  m  
COOK TIME: 15 TO 20 MINUTES  m SERVES 4
If you love baking and have flour in your pantry, making udon noodles might be 
your next fun activity to try! Making udon noodles from scratch is pretty simple; 
with just a few ingredients, you can prepare the fresh noodles.
2/3 cup plus 
2 tablespoons water
2 teaspoons sea salt3 1/3 cups (14 ounces/  
400 grams) 
all-purpose flour, plus 
more for dusting
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the water and salt.
2. In a large bowl, place the flour and gradually add the salted water, mixing with 
a fork until it becomes crumbly. If still on the dry side, add 1 to 2 tablespoons 
of water.
3. Use your hand to form the dough into a ball. Place it on a clean work surface and 
knead it for 10 minutes until it becomes smooth.
4. Form the dough into a ball and cover the surface with plastic wrap. Let the dough 
rest at room temperature for 30 minutes.
5. Lightly flour the work surface and a rolling pin. Roll out the dough into a rectangu­
lar shape, about 1/8 inch thick.
6. Fold the bottom third of the dough to the center and fold the top third over it. 
Using a sharp knife, cut the dough about 1/8 inch wide. Use your hands to coat the 
noodles with flour to prevent them from sticking. Udon noodles taste best when 
cooked immediately; however, they can be refrigerated in an airtight container for 
up to 2 days. For longer storage, divide them into individual servings and freeze 
them in resealable bags for up to 1 month.
7. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Shake off any excess flour and cook the  
noodles until just tender and slightly translucent, 15 to 20 minutes, stirring  
occasionally to prevent them from sticking to the pot. Cooking time depends on 
the thickness of the noodles. (If cooking from frozen, drop the frozen noodles into 
the boiling water.) Drain the noodles.37 The Basics8. For a warm dish: Divide noodles into serving bowls and pour warm soup over 
them along with your favorite toppings.
9. For a cold dish: Rinse the cooked noodles under running cold water until cold. 
Divide them into bowls and serve with a side of dipping sauce like Mentsuyu 
(page 30).
PREP TIP:  Instead of kneading the dough, transfer it to a heavy-duty resealable plastic bag, 
squeeze the air out, seal the bag, and wrap it with a towel. Place the bag on the floor and 
step on it 50 times with your feet. Shape the flattened dough into a ball and repeat three or 
four times.
Per serving: Calories: 361; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 583mg; Carbohydrates: 76g;  
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 10g; Calcium: 15mg38 The Vegan Japanese CookbookCreamy Sesame Dressing
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 11/4 CUPS
Toasted sesame seeds have a crave ­worthy nutty aroma and rich flavor. Making a 
dressing with them is an amazing way to distribute that flavor to all the nooks and 
crannies of a dish, making every bite delicious. Use this sesame dressing for salad, 
steamed vegetables, tofu, and noodle dishes.
1/2 cup rice vinegar
1/ 4 cup toasted white 
sesame seeds 
(page 19)
1/ 4 cup vegan mayonnaise2 tablespoons plus 
2 teaspoons 
soy sauce2 tablespoons 
maple syrup
1 teaspoon sea salt
In a blender, combine the rice vinegar, sesame seeds, mayonnaise, soy sauce, maple 
syrup, and salt and pulse until the dressing is emulsified and the sesame seeds are 
coarsely ground. Drizzle over salad or any dish you desire.
VARIATION TIP:  If you don’t have vegan mayonnaise, soy milk works well and is a smoother 
alternative. Y ou can also use T ofu Mayonnaise (page 31).
Per serving (2 tablespoons): Calories: 53; T otal fat: 3g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 398mg; 
Carbohydrates: 4g; Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 14mgSimmered Sweet Kabocha Squash m 47
41
Chapter 3
Soups, Small 
Dishes, and Sides
Miso Soup m 42
Clear Soup m 43
Kabocha Squash Surinagashi Soup m 44
Kenchin Soup m 45
Turnips in Meaty Tempeh Sauce m 46
Simmered Sweet Kabocha Squash m 47
Scallions in Sweet-and-Sour Miso Dressing m 48
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad) m 49
Green Beans in Sesame Dressing m 50
Tahini Goma Tofu m 51
Lemony Sweet Potatoes m 52
Vegetables with Dengaku Miso Sauce m 53
Carrot and Celery Kinpira m 54
Daikon Salad m 55
Spicy Garlic Edamame m 56
Tofu Avocado Salad m 57
Stir-Fried Miso Eggplant m 58
Crispy Tofu in Tsuyu Broth m 59
Daikon Steak m 60
Spinach Ohitashi m 6142 The Vegan Japanese CookbookMiso Soup
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES, PLUS 10 MINUTES TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Miso soup is the soul of Japanese cuisine. It is such a forgiving recipe, which is 
why every household has its own special version. Since the soup base is made just 
with miso and dashi, the quality of the miso directly affects the taste. Try out dif ­
ferent kinds of miso, miso ­to­dashi ratios, and mix ­ins to find your special version. 
The amount of miso you need to hit your sweet spot varies on how salty and aged 
your miso is.
1 tablespoon 
dried wakame
2 cup cold water
3 tablespoons miso3 1/2 cups Kombu 
Shiitake Dashi  
(page 25), divided
4 scallions, both white 
and green parts, cut 
into 1-inch pieces1/2 (14-ounce) package 
silken or soft tofu, cut 
into bite-size cubes
1. In a small bowl, soak the wakame in the cold water for 5 to 10 minutes until 
tender. Drain well.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the miso and 3 tablespoons of dashi until the miso 
is dissolved.
3. In a medium pot, bring the remaining 3 cups and 5 tablespoons of dashi to a 
gentle boil over medium heat. Add the scallions and cook until they become bright 
green. Reduce the heat to low, if necessary, to maintain a gentle simmer.
4. Add the miso mixture, tofu, and wakame and simmer gently until the tofu is 
warmed through. Keep the soup at a gentle simmer, as rapid boiling cooks off the 
delicate flavor of miso. Ladle the soup into serving bowls.
PREP TIP:  First mixing the miso and a tiny amount of dashi helps the miso dissolve easier; 
otherwise, it will be clumpy if put directly into the whole pot of dashi.
VARIATION TIP:  Wakame is not everyone’s cup of tea. But no worries, because almost any 
vegetable will fit nicely in miso soup. My favorites include potato, onion, leek, mushrooms, 
spinach, daikon, sweet potato, and aburaage.
Per serving: Calories: 77; T otal fat: 3g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 573mg; Carbohydrates: 8g; Sugar: 1g; 
Fiber: 2g; Protein: 6g; Calcium: 73mg43 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesClear Soup
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Japanese clear soup is carefully prepared to achieve a delicate flavor and beautiful 
transparent soup. Usukuchi shoyu, a light­ colored soy sauce, is used to season 
the soup and, at the same time, keep the soup color clear and crisp. It’s usually 
enjoyed on special occasions, but it’s too good to keep it that way. So here, I 
simplified the recipe using regular soy sauce and kombu dashi to fit this soup into 
everyday life.
3 1/2 cups Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)
1 carrot, thinly sliced 
diagonally4 shiitake mushrooms, 
thinly sliced
2 tablespoons sake
1 tablespoon mirin
1 teaspoon soy sauce1/2 teaspoon sea salt
1/ 4 (14-ounce) package 
silken tofu, cut into 
bite-size cubes
1 cup baby spinach
1. In a medium pot, bring the dashi to a gentle boil over medium heat.
2. Add the carrot and mushrooms and cook until tender, about 5 minutes. Reduce 
the heat to low, if necessary, to maintain a gentle simmer.
3. Add the sake, mirin, soy sauce, and salt and cook for about 3 minutes, until the 
alcohol of the sake and mirin is cooked off. Add more salt to taste.
4. Add the tofu and simmer gently until the tofu is warmed through. Stir in the spin­
ach and remove the pot from the heat. Ladle into soup bowls.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Other vegetables like shimeji mushrooms, daikon, Napa cabbage, leek, and 
soaked wakame also work wonderfully in this recipe.
Per serving: Calories: 61; T otal fat: 2g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 241mg; Carbohydrates: 5g; Sugar: 2g; 
Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4g; Calcium: 69mg44 The Vegan Japanese CookbookKabocha Squash 
Surinagashi Soup
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Surinagashi is a Japanese ­style pureed soup; cooked vegetables are blended with 
dashi to make a creamy, umami soup. Surinagashi is a great recipe to feature the 
natural sweetness of vegetables. Kabocha squash and leek become extra sweet 
when sautéed with oil and a bit of salt, and minimum seasonings are all that are 
needed. If you have never tried kabocha squash before, you’re in for a treat.
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
1/2 medium kabocha 
squash (about 
20 ounces), peeled, 
seeded, and chopped 
into small pieces2 cups loosely packed 
chopped leeks (about 
5 ounces), white and 
light green parts
Sea salt
3 cup Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)2 tablespoons mirin
2 tablespoons sake
Pumpkin seeds, 
for garnish
Freshly ground black 
pepper, for garnish
1. In a large pot, heat the oil over medium heat. Add the squash and leeks and sauté 
until the leeks wilt, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes. Stir in a pinch of salt 
and cook for about 2 minutes more.
2. Pour in the dashi and simmer until the squash becomes tender, 10 to 15 minutes. 
Reduce the heat to low, if necessary, to maintain a gentle simmer. Remove the pot 
from the heat and let cool slightly.
3. Carefully transfer the soup into a food processor or blender, working in batches 
if necessary, and puree until smooth. Transfer back to the pot and stir in the 
mirin and sake. Bring the soup to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 2 to 
3 minutes. Season with salt to taste.
4. Ladle the soup into bowls. Garnish with the pumpkin seeds and pepper.
Per serving: Calories: 130; T otal fat: 4g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 51mg; Carbohydrates: 21g;  
Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 69mg45 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesKenchin Soup
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Kenchin soup is one of the classic shojin ryori recipes, which are traditionally 
plant­based. Root vegetables are sautéed in toasted sesame oil, and dashi is added 
to enhance the vibrant flavors of the ingredients. I like to make a big batch of this 
recipe and enjoy it as a simple bowl of soup the day it’s made, and as an udon 
noodle soup the next day. By adding cooked udon noodles, sliced scallions, and a 
sprinkle of shichimi togarashi, kenchin soup can be transformed into yet another 
satisfying meal.
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 (1 1/2-inch-thick) 
daikon radish 
(about 3.5 ounces), 
cut into 1/ 4-inch 
quarter-rounds
1 carrot, cut into 
1/ 4-inch rounds1 (5-inch) burdock root 
(about 2 ounces), 
cut into 1/ 4-inch 
diagonal slices
4 shiitake mushrooms, 
cut into 1/ 4-inch-
thick slices
1/2 (14-ounce) package 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drainSea salt
3 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
3 tablespoons soy sauce
1/2 tablespoon mirin
1 scallion, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1. In a large pot, heat the sesame oil over medium heat. Add the daikon, carrot, bur ­
dock root, and mushrooms and sauté for about 2 minutes.
2. Use your hands to break up the tofu into bite ­size pieces and add it to the pot. 
Sauté for about 2 minutes. Sprinkle a pinch of salt over the ingredients and give a 
quick stir.
3. Add the dashi and cook for 10 minutes or until the burdock root becomes tender.
4. Add the soy sauce and mirin and season to taste with salt. Cook for 1 to 2 minutes, 
then remove the pot from the heat.
5. Ladle the soup into the serving bowls and top with the scallion.
Per serving: Calories: 154; T otal fat: 8g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 772mg; Carbohydrates: 12g;  
Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 11g; Calcium: 364mg 46 The Vegan Japanese CookbookTurnips in Mea ty 
Tempeh Sauce
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
This recipe doesn’t necessarily require actual meat, and the meaty tempeh sauce 
will convince anyone who has never tried tempeh just how satisfying it can be. 
The thick, savory dashi­based sauce is traditionally paired with ground meat, but 
here the tempeh takes over that role. The tip to preparing the tempeh is to cook 
the crumbles with toasted sesame oil, which adds a savory richness to the taste.
1 (8-ounce) 
package tempeh
2 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
2 tablespoons  
soy sauce
2 tablespoons sake2 tablespoons mirin
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 (1-inch) piece 
ginger, peeled and 
finely minced3 medium turnips (about 
12 ounces), peeled 
and cut into wedges
Sea salt
2 tablespoons 
arrowroot flour
2 tablespoons water
1. Use your hands to break up the tempeh into small crumbles.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the dashi, soy sauce, sake, and mirin.
3. In a medium pan, heat the sesame oil and ginger over medium heat. When the 
oil starts to sizzle, add the tempeh crumbles and sauté until golden brown, about 
3 minutes.
4. Add the turnips and a pinch of salt. Stir and cook for about 2 minutes.
5. Reduce the heat to low and add the dashi mixture. Cover and cook until the 
 turnips become tender, about 10 minutes.
6. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, combine the flour and water until the flour is 
 dissolved, making a slurry.
7. Add the slurry to the pan and cook, stirring constantly, until the sauce thickens. 
Remove the pan from the heat and divide into serving bowls.
Per serving: Calories: 212; T otal fat: 10g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 548mg; Carbohydrates: 18g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 12g; Calcium: 94mg 47 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesSimmered Sweet 
Kabocha Squash
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
The umami­rich saltiness of soy sauce enhances the sweetness of kabocha squash. 
This simple simmered squash is a popular side dish for anyone who has a sweet 
tooth. The key to the sweetest squash lies in when to add the soy sauce. Sugar 
seeps into the ingredients slower than salt, so I add the soy sauce later to give the 
sugar time to be fully absorbed.
1/ 4 kabocha squash 
(about 10 ounces), 
unpeeled, seeded, 
and cut into 
bite-size pieces3/ 4 cup Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)
3 tablespoons mirin
1 tablespoon sake1 teaspoon coconut sugar
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1. In a medium pot, arrange the squash in a single layer, skin­ side down. Add 
the dashi, mirin, sake, and coconut sugar and cook over medium­low heat for 
8 minutes. Reduce the heat to low, if necessary, to maintain a gentle simmer.
2. Add the soy sauce and continue simmering until the squash is tender, about 
10 minutes.
3. Remove the pot from the heat and set aside for 5 minutes to let the squash absorb 
the flavors.
PREP TIP:  Kabocha squash can be broken apart while simmering. Using a pot wide enough 
to arrange kabocha squash in a single layer helps kabocha squash cook beautifully and 
thoroughly.
Per serving: Calories: 58; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 223mg; Carbohydrates: 10g;  
Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 26mg48 The Vegan Japanese CookbookScallions in Sweet-and-
Sour Miso Dressing
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 2 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Together, miso and rice vinegar make a vibrant, oil­free dressing thanks to the 
deep fermented flavor of each. I used regular yellow miso, or Shinshu miso in this 
recipe, but also try making it with white miso if you have it. The mellow, sweet 
flavor of white miso makes a light, luscious dressing in its own right.
12 scallions, halved 
crosswise, separating 
the green and 
white parts2 tablespoons yellow or 
white miso1 tablespoon 
coconut sugar
1 tablespoon rice vinegar
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. To blanch the scallions, add the white parts 
of the scallions to the water for 45 seconds. After 45 seconds, add the green parts 
and blanch together until they become bright green, about 30 seconds. Drain the 
scallions and let them cool.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the miso, coconut sugar, and rice vinegar.
3. Slice the white parts of the scallions diagonally, and cut the green parts into 
2­inch­long pieces. Add to the dressing and toss before placing them in  
serving bowls.
VARIATION TIP:  Sweet-and-sour miso dressing tastes amazing with cooked vegetables like 
snap peas, asparagus, spinach, carrots, and cabbage. T ry it with whatever you have in your 
refrigerator.
Per serving: Calories: 45; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 324mg; Carbohydrates: 9g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 38mg49 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesShiraae (Classic Tofu 
Dressing Salad)
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Traditional Japanese salads don’t call for oil in dressings. Instead, washoku chefs 
use ingredients like tofu, sesame seeds, or walnuts to add richness to a salad. 
Aegoromo is a dressing used to make a traditional Japanese ­style salad called 
aemono, which is dressed with a flavorful sauce. Shiraae is a type of aemono 
dressed with aegoromo made of tofu. Shiraae dressing is dense and creamy and 
goes well with almost any vegetables.
1 teaspoon sea salt
1/2 bunch mature spinach 
(about 3 ounces)
1/2 carrot, cut into 
matchsticks1 tablespoon toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)
1/2 (14-ounce) package 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon miso
1 teaspoon coconut sugar
1/2 apple, thinly sliced
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the salt. Immerse the spinach into the 
boiling water to blanch it. Using tongs or cooking chopsticks, quickly remove it 
from the hot water after the spinach turns bright green (keep the water boiling on 
the stove). Place it on a cutting board or in a colander to cool. Once cool enough 
to handle, squeeze out the excess water. Remove the stem and cut the leaves into 
2­inch lengths.
2. Add the carrot to the boiling water and blanch for about 30 seconds. Drain and 
let cool.
3. Place the sesame seeds into a food processor and blitz until finely ground. Add 
the tofu, soy sauce, miso, and coconut sugar to the food processor and puree until 
smooth and well combined.
4. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl and stir in the spinach, carrot, and apple 
slices until well combined. Divide into serving bowls and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 116; T otal fat: 6g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 710mg; Carbohydrates: 9g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 10g; Calcium: 370mg50 The Vegan Japanese CookbookGreen Beans in 
Sesame Dressing
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
This recipe is another traditional aemono salad recipe called gomaae. Here, 
snappy green beans are dressed in nutty sesame aegoromo. Sesame seeds are very 
popular in traditional recipes because of their high protein content—and flavor, of 
course. One tablespoon of sesame seeds has 1.59 grams of protein, and by grind­
ing them, your body more easily absorbs the nutrients. The traditional recipe calls 
for a Japanese mortar and pestle to pulverize the seeds, but I use a blender to 
speed up the process.
1 teaspoon sea salt
8 ounces green beans2 tablespoons toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(see page 19)1 tablespoon soy sauce
2 teaspoons 
coconut sugar
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the salt. Blanch the green beans until 
bright green, 1 to 2 minutes. Drain and let cool.
2. Trim the ends of the green beans, then cut them into 1 1/2­inch pieces. Place them in 
a large bowl.
3. Use a mortar and pestle or a small blender to grind the sesame seeds until they 
are coarsely ground. Transfer the sesame seeds to a small bowl and stir in the soy 
sauce and coconut sugar. 
4. Pour the dressing over the green beans and toss to coat. Divide into bowls 
and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  This sweet and rich sesame dressing complements other vegetables, too. 
Blanched spinach, carrots, broccoli, bok choy, and okra are a few of my favorite sesame 
dressing salad ingredients.
Per serving: Calories: 52; T otal fat: 2g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 537mg; Carbohydrates: 7g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 28mg51 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesTahini Goma Tofu
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES, PLUS 2 HOURS TO CHILL  m  
COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Goma tofu is one of the most famous shojin ryori dishes. Buddhist monks start 
with toasting the sesame seeds, called goma, and grinding them until they become 
creamy like butter. Then they combine it with kuzu starch and slowly cook to 
transform the sesame seeds into a tofu­like block. It is a delicious but slow pro ­
cess, so I simplified the traditional recipe using accessible ingredients.
6 tablespoons 
arrowroot flour
3 tablespoons tahiniPinch sea salt
1 cup waterWasabi, for serving 
(optional)
Soy sauce, for serving
1. In a medium pot, combine the flour, tahini, and salt. Add the water gradually, a 
few tablespoons at a time, whisking together to combine.
2. Cook over medium­low heat, stirring continuously with a spatula, for 3 to 
6 minutes, until the mixture starts to thicken from the bottom of the pot. Reduce 
the heat to low and stir vigorously to even out the consistency, until the mixture 
starts to form a ball. Continue stirring until the mixture is cooked through and 
becomes slightly yellow and shiny, 10 to 15 minutes. Give a quick taste test: the 
texture should be smooth, not powdery and uncooked.
3. Transfer the mixture to a 6­inch­ square food container and flatten the surface with 
a wet spatula. Cover the surface with plastic wrap. Let cool in the refrigerator for 
about 2 hours until it’s firm.
4. Place a piece of parchment paper on a clean work surface. Use a wet spatula to 
separate the edge of the goma tofu from the food container. Flip the container 
upside down to transfer the goma tofu onto the parchment paper.
5. Wet a knife and cut the goma tofu into 4 pieces. Place on a small serving plate and 
serve with wasabi (if using) and a drizzle of soy sauce.
VARIATION TIP:  T ahini goma tofu tastes even better with a drizzle of sauce. Aside from the 
basic combination of soy sauce and wasabi, try Dengaku Miso Sauce (page 53) with some 
toasted sesame seeds (page 19) or Mentsuyu (page 30) with a scatter of sliced scallions.
Per serving: Calories: 110; T otal fat: 6g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 52mg; Carbohydrates: 13g;  
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 53mg52 The Vegan Japanese CookbookLemony Sweet Pota toes
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Creamy, chestnut­ y Japanese sweet potatoes taste even better with the refreshing 
tanginess of fresh lemons. Lemons are not just an accent flavor. I love the slowly 
cooked sweet lemon slices along with sweet potatoes. Since you’re eating the 
whole lemon, I prefer organic lemons for this recipe.
1 (1-pound) 
medium-large 
unpeeled Japanese 
sweet potato, cut into 
1-inch rounds1 cup water
2 tablespoons 
maple syrupPinch sea salt
1/2 lemon, sliced
1. In a medium pot, evenly arrange the sweet potatoes. Add the water and maple 
syrup. Sprinkle the salt over the sweet potatoes. Spread the lemon slices evenly 
over the sweet potatoes to cover the surface.
2. Cover and bring it to a boil over medium heat. Reduce the heat to low and simmer 
for 10 minutes, until the sweet potatoes become fork ­tender.
3. Remove the pot from the heat and cool slightly before serving; this will help the 
sweet potato absorb the flavors. Transfer to serving bowls.
PREP TIP : The key to cooking these sweet potatoes is to keep their skin on. The skin is nutri-
tious and also holds the creamy interior of the sweet potato together, preventing them from 
breaking apart while simmering.
Per serving: Calories: 125; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 102mg; Carbohydrates: 30g;  
Sugar: 11g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 45mg53 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesVegetables with 
Dengaku Miso Sauce
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
The dengaku miso sauce is a rich, sweet sauce made with miso and sugar; it adds 
warmth and coziness to any dish. In this recipe, I pair it with juicy, smoky grilled 
eggplant and zucchini, but this sweet sauce is versatile. It goes well with many 
other items, such as grilled tofu or cabbage, or boiled konjac slices, lotus root, 
and daikon, to name a few. Serving Grilled Rice Balls (page 92) with this sauce is 
also great.
1/ 4 cup miso
1/ 4 cup sake
1/ 4 cup maple syrup
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, 
for searing1 globe eggplant, halved 
lengthwise and cut 
into thin half-moons
1 medium zucchini, cut 
into 1/2-inch rounds1/ 4 teaspoon toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(see page 19)
1. In a small saucepan, combine the miso, sake, and maple syrup. Cook over 
medium­low heat until the sauce slightly thickens, 5 to 10 minutes. Remove the 
pan from the heat and set aside.
2. In a large pan, heat a drizzle of oil over medium heat. Once the oil is hot, arrange 
the eggplant and zucchini in a single layer, working in batches if needed, and sear 
until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes on both sides.
3. Place the eggplant and zucchini onto serving plates and spread the miso sauce on 
the surface. Sprinkle with the sesame seeds and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Dengaku miso sauce is a great recipe to enjoy the rich taste of miso, so use 
your favorite miso to make it. Authentic dengaku sauce is made with darker-colored red 
miso, or aka miso. Dengaku miso sauce made with aka miso has an aged, complex flavor 
and a deep savoriness. So, if you get your hands on aka miso, try to make the sauce with it.
Per serving: Calories: 158; T otal fat: 3g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 651mg; Carbohydrates: 28g;  
Sugar: 19g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 4g; Calcium: 51mg54 The Vegan Japanese CookbookCarrot and Celery Kinpira
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Kinpira, or kinpira gobo, is a name for a crunchy vegetable stir ­fry seasoned with 
soy sauce and sugar. As the name describes, gobo, or burdock root, is commonly 
used as an ingredient, along with carrots. The bold, earthy flavor of gobo is 
enriched by deep and complex soy sauce flavors. Unfortunately, gobo is not read­
ily available at most grocery stores, so I swapped it for celery to enjoy its aroma 
and satisfying crunch.
1/ 4 cup sake
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
1 tablespoon sesame oil3 small carrots, cut into 
matchsticks
6 celery stalks, thinly 
sliced diagonally1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame seeds (see 
page 19)
Pinch red pepper flakes 
or shichimi togarashi 
(optional)
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the sake, soy sauce, and coconut sugar.
2. In a large skillet, heat the sesame oil over medium heat. Add the carrots and 
celery and sauté until just tender, 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Add the soy sauce mixture and continue cooking until most of the liquid is 
cooked off.
4. Transfer to a serving bowl and sprinkle with the sesame seeds and red pepper 
flakes (if using).
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you have celery leaves, add them at the end, after you add the soy sauce 
mixture, and let them wilt down. If you are using organic vegetables, you can use the peeled 
skin from daikon radish, carrots, sweet potatoes, beets, or any crunchy root vegetables. 
Kinpira is where their extra crunchiness fits perfectly. Cut the ribbons of peels into match-
sticks (a good idea for tougher vegetables like beets and sweet potatoes) or toss them 
in as is.
Per serving: Calories: 108; T otal fat: 4g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 518mg; Carbohydrates: 13g;  
Sugar: 9g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 41mg55 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesDaikon Salad
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Daikon radishes are one of the most hydrating and detoxifying vegetables you can 
eat. They are rich in vitamin C and low in calories, plus they aid in digestion. The 
vitamin C and enzymes in daikon are easily destroyed by heat, so eating them 
raw is the best way to reap those benefits to the fullest. I assembled this salad 
with an umami­rich dashi­based dressing to enjoy the refreshing crunchiness of 
daikon radish.
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
2 tablespoons Kombu 
Dashi (page 24)2 teaspoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
1 teaspoon coconut sugar
1 (6-inch) piece daikon 
(about 14 ounces), 
cut into matchsticks1 cup microgreens
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame seeds (see 
page 19)
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, rice vinegar, dashi, olive oil, and 
coconut sugar.
2. In a medium bowl, toss together the daikon and microgreens. Divide into serving 
bowls and top with the sesame seeds.
3. Drizzle with the dressing just before serving.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Raw daikon radish has a slightly sweet and lightly spicy flavor. The taste 
varies depending on what part of the root you’re eating. The top part, where it is the closest 
to the leaves, is said to be the sweetest, and it gets spicier toward the root end. I find that 
the top part is the best for this dish. If you can’t find Japanese daikon radish, the regular 
round, red radishes commonly found at grocery stores work as an alternative, with a 
milder flavor.
Per serving: Calories: 59; T otal fat: 3g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 478mg; Carbohydrates: 6g;  
Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 40mg56 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSpicy Garlic Edamame
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 16 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Edamame in pods are delicious and nutritious, and they can be easily turned into 
a nourishing snack or side dish. They taste amazing just by boiling and tossing 
with salt, but there is a way to bump up the flavor. Here, I cooked edamame with 
garlic, red pepper flakes, and nori to hit savory, spicy, and umami notes. After 
enjoying all the pods, the leftover nori mixture can be used as a flavor ­packed 
furikake.
3 cups frozen 
edamame in pods
2 tablespoons 
extra-virgin olive oil3 garlic cloves, minced
1/ 4 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes1 nori sheet, torn into 
small pieces
Sea salt
1. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Add the edamame and cook according to 
the package instructions until tender, usually 3 to 5 minutes.
2. In a medium pan, combine the olive oil, garlic, and red pepper flakes and cook 
over medium heat until fragrant, about 3 minutes. Stir in the edamame and nori 
and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.
3. Sprinkle with a generous pinch of salt, then taste and adjust the seasoning, if 
needed. Transfer to serving bowls.
VARIATION TIP:  If you don’t have nori, you can omit it and make this recipe into garlicky eda-
mame. Using toasted sesame oil instead of extra-virgin olive oil also works nicely, adding a 
tasty rich flavor.
Per serving: Calories: 213; T otal fat: 13g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 54mg; Carbohydrates: 14g;  
Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 13g; Calcium: 111mg57 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesTofu A vocado Salad
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Tofu salad is the most effortless lunch or dinner dish: just throwing tofu and veg ­
gies together and drizzling some dressing makes a nourishing meal. Silken or soft 
tofu is the perfect kind to be eaten raw. Its silky ­smooth creaminess and velvety 
texture make it lovely to eat. A ginger sesame dressing livens up this simple salad.
3 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons toasted 
sesame oil
2 teaspoons 
coconut sugar1 (1-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and grated
Pinch sea salt
4 cups spring mix
1 (14-ounce) package 
silken or soft 
tofu, drained1 English cucumber, cut 
into matchsticks
2 avocados, sliced
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame seeds (see 
page 19)
1. Into a small bowl, whisk together the rice vinegar, soy sauce, sesame oil, coconut 
sugar, ginger, and salt.
2. Arrange the spring mix in serving bowls. Use your hands to break up the tofu into 
bite­size pieces and place them on top of the greens. Top with the cucumber, avo ­
cados, and sesame seeds. Finish with a drizzle of dressing before serving.
VARIATION TIP:  This salad also tastes great with Creamy Sesame Dressing (page 38).
Per serving: Calories: 287; T otal fat: 22g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 471mg; Carbohydrates: 18g;  
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 11g; Calcium: 160mg58 The Vegan Japanese CookbookStir-fried Miso Eggplant
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Eggplant is a versatile vegetable; it can be bland and somewhat bitter, but if 
cooked properly, it becomes a pillowy, absorbent base for any sauce. Freshly cut 
eggplant browns when exposed to the air, so soaking it in water for 10 minutes 
prevents browning and reduces the bitterness. However, for a stir ­fry, I like to 
sprinkle a big pinch of salt over eggplant pieces to drain the moisture in it. This 
also reduces the bitterness without waterlogging the eggplants.
1 globe eggplant, cut into 
bite-size chunks
Pinch sea salt
1/ 4 cup raw walnuts1/ 4 cup miso
2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
2 teaspoons soy sauce2 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1. Arrange the eggplant chunks on a cutting board or a plate in a single layer, 
sprinkle the salt over the cut surface, and let sit for 10 minutes to draw out the 
moisture. Pat the pieces dry with a paper towel.
2. In a medium dry skillet, toast the walnuts over medium heat until fragrant, 3 to 
5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from the heat and let cool. Chop the 
walnuts into small pieces.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together the miso, coconut sugar, soy sauce, and water.
4. In a medium pan, heat the sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add the eggplant 
and cook, stirring often, until golden brown and tender, 5 to 7 minutes.
5. Add the miso mixture and walnuts and cook, stirring often, until most of the liquid 
is absorbed by the eggplant, about 2 minutes. Serve immediately.
Per serving: Calories: 166; T otal fat: 9g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 829mg; Carbohydrates: 20g;  
Sugar: 12g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 5g; Calcium: 30mg59 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesCrispy Tofu in Tsuyu Broth
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Agedashi tofu is crispy fried tofu served in a savory broth called tsuyu and topped 
with flavorful garnishes. By frying the tofu, it gains a rich and satisfying flavor. The 
crispy fried shell and soft interior make a beautiful texture contrast, and the crispy 
shell doubles as an absorbent carrier of flavorful tsuyu.
1 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup plus 
1 tablespoon mirin
Pinch sea salt2 (14-ounce) packages 
silken or soft tofu, 
pressed to drain and 
cut into 1/2-inch slabs
Arrowroot flour, for 
dredgingExtra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
shallow-frying
1 scallion, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1. In a small saucepan, combine the dashi, soy sauce, mirin, and salt. Bring to a boil 
over medium heat and simmer for 5 minutes to cook off the alcohol in the mirin. 
Remove the pan from the heat and let cool.
2. Coat the surface of the tofu slabs with the flour.
3. In a large pan, pour in a 1/2­inch depth of oil. Heat the oil over medium heat. 
Once hot, add the tofu slabs and shallow ­fry until golden brown and crispy on 
both sides.
4. Transfer the fried tofu slabs to a serving bowl and ladle the dashi over the tofu. 
Top with scallion slices and serve immediately.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Arrowroot works great to coat the tofu, as it creates a crispy shell that 
absorbs the flavorful tsuyu. If you don’t have arrowroot flour on hand, cornstarch, potato 
starch, whole-wheat flour, or all-purpose flour can be used with slightly different results but 
just as delicious.
VARIATION TIP:  Garnish is the fun part of this recipe. The scallions are very basic but not 
the only option. Grated daikon radish, grated ginger, red pepper flakes, shichimi togarashi, 
shiso, or a combination of any of these add fun flavor to the dish. My favorite is the daikon 
radish and ginger combination. They add a spicy kick and refreshing touch to the mild, 
savory dish.
Per serving: Calories: 247; T otal fat: 14g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 953mg; Carbohydrates: 15g;  
Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 14g; Calcium: 233mg 60 The Vegan Japanese CookbookDaikon Steak
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
When I entered the world of plant­based cooking, the most surprising thing to me 
was how vegetables can easily step up to be the main event of a meal. A vegeta­
ble steak is one of the dishes that can be the entrée. Is daikon radish too bland 
to make it to the main course? Don’t worry. Irresistibly rich sauce made with soy 
sauce and vegan butter will never leave you unsatisfied.
1 (4-inch) piece daikon, 
peeled and cut into 
1-inch-thick rounds2 tablespoons vegan 
butter, divided
2 tablespoons soy sauce1 scallion, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1. Score the flat surfaces of the daikon rounds in a crisscross fashion at 1/4­inch inter ­
vals. Do this to both sides of the daikon rounds.
2. In a medium skillet, heat 1 tablespoon of butter over medium heat. Reduce the 
heat to low and add the daikon in a single layer. Cover and cook for 10 minutes.
3. After 10 minutes, flip the daikon rounds, cover, and cook for 10 minutes more, 
until the daikon becomes fork ­tender.
4. Uncover and increase the heat to medium. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon of 
butter and the soy sauce and cook until the sauce thickens a bit, 1 to 2 minutes.
5. Transfer to serving plates and garnish with the scallions.
VARIATION TIP:  This recipe is simple enough to try with any vegetable you have on hand, 
such as cauliflower, eggplant, beets, and portobello mushrooms.
Per serving: Calories: 71; T otal fat: 6g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 504mg; Carbohydrates: 4g; Sugar: 2g; 
Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 28mg61 Soups, Small Dishes, and SidesSpinach Ohitashi
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
An easy way to brighten up blanched vegetables is by giving them a nice bath of 
savory dashi. Ohitashi is the name of the dish and also the cooking method. And 
umami­packed sauce enriches the natural flavor of vegetables.
1 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
2 tablespoons mirin2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon sea salt2 (6-ounce) bunches 
mature spinach
1. In a saucepan, combine the dashi, mirin, and soy sauce. Bring to a boil, then 
reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 5 minutes to cook off the alcohol from 
the mirin. Remove the pan from the heat and let cool.
2. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and add the salt. Immerse the spinach in the 
boiling water to blanch; once it turns bright green, immediately drain the spin­
ach. Place it on a cutting board or in a colander to let cool. Once cool enough to 
handle, lightly squeeze out the excess water from the spinach. Cut the spinach 
into 2­inch pieces.
3. Divide the spinach into serving bowls and ladle the dashi mixture over it. Serve 
immediately.
VARIATION TIP:  Instead of spinach, bok choy, asparagus, okra, broccoli, and green beans 
taste great in ohitashi. Blanch them like spinach, until they become bright green.
PREP TIP:  Blanching greens is a simple technique yet difficult to do properly. Greens wilt in a 
matter of seconds after they are submerged in boiling water. When they turn bright green, 
move quickly to take them out of the water. I like to add a handful of greens at a time to 
handle every leaf with care.
Per serving: Calories: 40; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 820mg; Carbohydrates: 5g;  
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 3g; Calcium: 88mg Tofu Katsu m 78
63
Chapter 4
Veganized 
F a vorites
Tofu Karaage m 64
Teriyaki Tofu m 65
Jackfruit Beef Bowl m 66
Savory Cabbage Pancake Okonomiyaki m 68
Meatless Nikujaga Simmered Potatoes m 69
Ginger Tempeh m 70
Tofu in Thick Sweet-and-Sour Veggie Sauce m 71
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot m 72
Vegetable Tempura m 73
Veggie Nest Kakiage Tempura m 75
Gyoza Dumplings m 76
Tofu Katsu m 78
Japanese-Style Potato Croquette m 7964 The Vegan Japanese CookbookTofu Karaage
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES, PLUS 15 MINUTES TO MARINATE  m  
COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Karaage is a Japanese ­style fried chicken seasoned with soy sauce and aromatics. 
It has a special place in my heart, as it is my mother’s specialty, and I always asked 
her to make it on special occasions. I simplified and veganized her recipe using 
tofu and a handful of ingredients. If you have time, freezing and then thawing the 
tofu gives it a chicken­like texture.
2 (14-ounce) packages 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
4 garlic cloves, grated6 tablespoons brown or 
white rice flour, plus 
more as needed
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
shallow-frying4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
8 cups salad greens
1. In a large bowl, use your hands to break up the tofu into bite ­size pieces. Stir in 
the soy sauce and garlic. Refrigerate for at least 15 minutes, or overnight (covered), 
if possible, to marinate.
2. Place the flour on a plate. Dredge each tofu piece in the flour to coat evenly on all 
sides. (Add more flour, if necessary.)
3. In a medium skillet, pour in the oil to 1/2 inch depth. Heat the oil over medium 
heat. Add the tofu and shallow ­fry until golden brown, 3 to 5 minutes, flipping 
halfway. Transfer the karaage to a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain.
4. Divide the rice and salad greens into serving bowls. Top with the tofu karaage 
and serve.
VARIATION TIP:  Rice gets hard after it’s cooled; in other words, karaage made with rice flour 
stay crispy long after they are deep-fried, making them perfect for packing in a lunch box or 
enjoying as leftovers. Other flours such as all-purpose flour, potato starch, cornstarch, and 
arrowroot flour will also work, but the results might be a little less crunchy if eaten later.
Per serving: Calories: 617; T otal fat: 23g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 913mg; Carbohydrates: 70g;  
Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 40g; Calcium: 1426mg65 Veganized FavoritesTeriy aki Tofu
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Homemade teriyaki sauce tastes much better than store ­bought varieties, and 
once you know the golden ratio, you can hit the sweet spot every time. To make 
an incomparable teriyaki sauce, all you need is 2 parts each of soy sauce, sake, 
and mirin, and 1 part sugar. Use the teriyaki mixture as a finishing glaze. 
4 (6.5-ounce) packages 
atsuage or  
2 (14-ounce) 
packages firm tofu
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup sake
1/ 4 cup mirin2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
Potato starch, for 
dredging
T oasted sesame oil, for 
stir-frying2 scallions, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1/2 teaspoon 
sesame seeds
1. If using atsuage, bring a large pot of water to a boil. Cook the atsuage for 2 minutes 
and carefully drain. Let cool. If using firm tofu, press to drain. Cut the atsuage or 
tofu into bite ­size pieces.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, sake, mirin, and coconut sugar until 
the sugar is dissolved.
3. Place the potato starch on a plate. Dredge the atsuage or tofu pieces to coat evenly 
on all sides.
4. In a large pan over medium­high heat, heat a drizzle of oil. Add half of the atsuage 
or tofu pieces. Cook for about 5 minutes, until lightly golden brown, stirring occa­
sionally to crisp up all sides. Remove the pieces and repeat with the remaining 
atsuage or tofu pieces.
5. Return the first batch of atsuage or tofu pieces to the pan. Add the soy sauce 
mixture and cook for 1 to 3 minutes, stirring occasionally, until the sauce thickens. 
Transfer to serving bowls and garnish with scallions and sesame seeds.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Atsuage is a deep-fried tofu block used a lot in Japanese cuisine. Check out 
the Resources section (page 120) for the atsuage brand I use.
Per serving: Calories: 447; T otal fat: 24g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 910mg; Carbohydrates: 23g;  
Sugar: 8g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 33g; Calcium: 1,176mg66 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJackfruit Beef Bowl
PREP TIME: 50 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES m SERVES 4
There is something about the flavor of fast food that attracts people, and Japanese ­ 
style fast food, gyudon, appeals to many for its savory and sweet taste. It is a rice 
bowl topped with simmered, thin beef strips and onion in a soy sauce and dashi 
broth. I replicate the popular flavor profile from gyudon but made it lighter and 
healthier by using young green jackfruit that shreds like thin meat strips.
2 (20-ounce) cans  
young green 
jackfruit in water, 
drained, rinsed, and 
roughly chopped
1 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
soy sauce1/ 4 cup plus 
2 tablespoons mirin
3 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil or 
cooking oil
1 medium onion, cut 
into wedges1 cup frozen 
shelled edamame
4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
Shichimi togarashi or 
red pepper flakes 
(optional)
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Boil the jackfruit for 10 minutes, then drain 
well. Rinse the jackfruit under cold running water until cold. Fill a large bowl with 
cold water and wash the jackfruit well. Drain again, then rinse under cold running 
water a second time and drain well. Use a clean cloth to tightly squeeze out any 
excess water.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the dashi, soy sauce, mirin, and coconut sugar 
until the sugar is dissolved.
3. In a large pot, heat the sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add the jackfruit and 
onion and sauté until lightly browned around the edges, 5 to 10 minutes.
4. Add the dashi mixture. Cover and reduce the heat to medium­low to maintain  
a gentle simmer. Let simmer until the onion softens, about 15 minutes, 
stirring halfway.
5. Meanwhile, bring a medium pot of water to boil. Add the edamame and cook 
according to the package instructions, until tender, usually 3 to 5 minutes. 
Drain well.67 Veganized Favorites6. Mash any big pieces of jackfruit with a spatula to break them into bite ­size pieces. 
Mix well and remove the pot from the heat.
7. In a large bowl, combine the rice and edamame. Divide into serving bowls and top 
with the simmered jackfruit. Sprinkle with shichimi togarashi (if using) and enjoy.
PREP TIP:  Unlike ripe yellow jackfruit, green young unripe jackfruit has a mild flavor, making 
it suitable for savory recipes—in fact, it’s often used as a pulled pork substitute. Some 
jackfruit is packed in syrup, so pick the ones in water if using for a savory recipe. Boiling and 
rinsing the jackfruit is a very important step to remove the unpleasant acidic, salty taste of 
the canning water.
Per serving: Calories: 617; T otal fat: 9g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 1,330mg; Carbohydrates: 123g;  
Sugar: 60g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 15g; Calcium: 120mg68 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSa vory Cabbage 
Pancake Okonomiy aki
PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 16 PANCAKES
Okonomiyaki is a popular street food in western Japan. It’s a type of savory 
pancake made with a mixture of julienned cabbage, pork, and sometimes ramen 
noodles in a dashi­based batter. Each pancake typically is garnished with bonito 
flakes, seaweed, and a generous drizzle of okonomiyaki sauce and mayonnaise. 
I stripped away all non­plant elements from the traditional recipe but kept its 
unique flavor combination.
1 cup whole-wheat flour
Pinch sea salt
1 1/2 cups Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)
2 tablespoons plus 
2 teaspoons 
soy sauce4 cups shredded cabbage
2 cups shredded beets
2 cups frozen shelled 
edamame, thawed
Extra-virgin olive oil, 
for fryingT ofu Mayonnaise  
(page 31) or 
store-bought 
vegan mayonnaise, 
for serving
Japanese Vegan T onkatsu 
Sauce (page 34) or 
vegan Worcestershire 
sauce, for serving
1. In a large bowl, combine the flour and salt. Gradually add the dashi and soy sauce, 
whisking together to make the okonomiyaki batter.
2. Stir in the cabbage, beets, and edamame to coat the vegetables with the batter.
3. In a large pan, heat a thin layer of olive oil over medium­low heat. Cooking 2 or 
3 pancakes at a time, scoop a loosely packed 1/2 cup of battered vegetables and add 
to the pan. Use a spatula or spoon to shape it into a flat disc. Cook until golden 
brown, 3 to 5 minutes, then flip and cook for another 3 to 5 minutes, until golden 
brown  and crispy on the edges. Transfer the pancakes to a plate and repeat with 
the remaining batter, adding more oil to the pan before each batch.
4. Serve with a generous drizzle of vegan mayonnaise and tonkatsu sauce.
Per serving (4 pancakes): Calories: 313; T otal fat: 12g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 660mg;  
Carbohydrates: 41g; Sugar: 9g; Fiber: 11g; Protein: 15g; Calcium: 105mg69 Veganized FavoritesMea tless Nikujaga 
Simmered Pota toes
PREP TIME: 45 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Nikujaga is a take on a Western­ style beef stew that is now a staple of Japanese 
homes. Traditionally, it’s made with potatoes, onions, carrots, shirataki noodles, 
and meat simmered in soy sauce. But it tastes amazing even without any meat, 
just by focusing on all the delicious vegetables and shirataki noodles.
1 (7-ounce) package 
shirataki noodles
2 tablespoons mirin
2 tablespoons sake
2 tablespoons water1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
2 large potatoes 
(about 20 ounces), 
peeled and cut into 
bite-size cubes1 large onion, cut 
into wedges
3 carrots, cut into 
bite-size chunks
Pinch sea salt
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1. Drain the shirataki noodles in a fine ­mesh strainer and rinse under cool running 
water for 2 minutes. Roughly chop the noodles.
2. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Add the noodles and bring to a boil, then 
cook for 1 minute. Drain and set aside.
3. In a small bowl, combine the mirin, sake, and water.
4. In a large pot, heat the sesame oil over medium heat. Add the potatoes, onion, and 
carrots and cook, stirring often, for 5 to 10 minutes, until lightly golden brown.
5. Add the noodles and stir to cook for about 1 minute. Reduce the heat to low and 
add the mirin mixture into the pot and sprinkle salt over the vegetables. Cover 
and cook for about 5 minutes.
6. Add the soy sauce and give it a quick stir. Cover and cook until the potatoes 
become fork ­tender, about 20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
7. Ladle the stew into bowls and serve.
PREP TIP:  Nikujaga better absorbs the flavor during the cooling process, and, like most stews, 
it always tastes better the second day after it’s cooled down and then reheated. I like to make 
a large batch of nikujaga and refrigerate the leftovers for the following day to enjoy. 
Per serving: Calories: 236; T otal fat: 4g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 960mg; Carbohydrates: 42g;  
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 6g; Calcium: 52mg70 The Vegan Japanese CookbookGinger Tempeh
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
This ginger tempeh recipe is a plant­based version of ginger pork, or shogayaki, 
which is very popular in Japan as a lunch or dinner dish. Shogayaki is tradition­
ally thinly sliced pork cooked in a gingery soy ­based sauce, and this zingy flavor 
brightens the taste of tempeh slices, too. Ginger tempeh is ready in a flash, making 
it perfect for a weekday dinner.
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup sake
2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and grated1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
2 (8-ounce) packages 
tempeh, cut into 
1/2-inch-thick slices
4 cups shredded cabbage4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
rice (page 26)
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, sake, coconut sugar, and ginger 
until the sugar is dissolved.
2. In a large skillet, heat the sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add the tempeh 
slices and sear for 4 to 6 minutes in total until golden brown, flipping halfway.
3. Add the soy sauce mixture and cook for 1 to 3 minutes, until the sauce thickens, 
swirling the pan to coat the tempeh with the sauce.
4. Divide the tempeh into serving bowls along with the shredded cabbage and rice.
Per serving: Calories: 538; T otal fat: 17g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 901mg; Carbohydrates: 68g; 
Sugar: 9g; Fiber: 5g; Protein: 28g; Calcium: 180mg71 Veganized FavoritesTofu in Thick Sweet-and-
Sour Veggie Sauce
PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 25 MINUTES m SERVES 4
This starch­thickened sauce is called amazu­an in Japanese and is used like gravy. 
I combined it with crispy tofu and crunchy vegetables for contrast, but this sauce 
also tastes good on rice or noodles.
3/ 4 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup rice vinegar
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
1/2 cup plus 1 teaspoon 
potato starch, divided2 teaspoons water
2 (14-ounce) packages 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain and cut into 
1-inch cubes
T oasted sesame oil, 
for frying1 medium onion, 
thinly sliced
1/2 green bell pepper, 
thinly sliced
2 medium carrots, cut 
into matchsticks
4 shiitake mushrooms, 
thinly sliced
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the dashi, rice vinegar, soy sauce, and coconut 
sugar until the sugar is dissolved.
2. In another small bowl, combine 1 teaspoon of potato starch and the water to make 
a slurry, stirring until there are no clumps of starch.
3. Place the remaining 1/2 cup of potato starch on a plate or tray. Coat the tofu cubes 
evenly on all sides.
4. In a large pan, heat a thin layer of sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add half 
of the tofu cubes in a single layer and sear until golden brown and crispy, 5 to 
8 minutes. Flip the tofu occasionally so they crisp up on all sides and don’t stick 
together. Transfer to a serving bowl and repeat with the remaining tofu, transfer ­
ring them to the bowl when they are done.
5. Reduce the heat to medium and drizzle the sesame oil into the pan. Add the onion, 
bell pepper, carrots, and mushrooms and sauté just until tender, 1 to 2 minutes.
6. Add the dashi mixture and bring it to a boil. Simmer for 5 minutes. Stir the slurry 
and mix it into the sauce. Cook, stirring, until the sauce thickens. Serve the sauce 
over the tofu.
Per serving: Calories: 489; T otal fat: 24g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 940mg; Carbohydrates: 40g;  
Sugar: 10g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 35g; Calcium: 982mg72 The Vegan Japanese CookbookTofu Sukiy aki Hot Pot
PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 30 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Sukiyaki is a sweet and savory soy sauce–based hot pot made with beef and vege ­
tables, but it’s just as tasty without the beef. 
1 (7-ounce) package 
shirataki noodles
1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup mirin
1/2 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar3 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil, divided
2 (14-ounce) packages 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain and cut into 
1/2-inch-thick slabs
4 leeks, white and light 
green parts, thinly 
sliced diagonally1/ 4 small Napa cabbage, 
roughly chopped
1 (5-ounce) bag enoki 
mushrooms, 
roots removed 
and caps torn into 
small bundles
1. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Drain the shirataki noodles in a fine ­mesh 
strainer and rinse under cool running water for 2 minutes. Roughly chop the 
noodles. Add the noodles and bring to the boil, then cook for 1 minute. Drain and 
set aside.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, mirin, dashi, and coconut sugar 
until the sugar is dissolved.
3. In a large pan, heat 1 tablespoon of sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add half of 
tofu slabs to the pan in a single layer. Sear until golden brown, about 3 minutes on 
each side. Transfer the tofu to a plate and repeat with another tablespoon of oil 
and the remaining tofu slabs.
4. Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of sesame oil in the same pan over medium heat. 
Add the leeks and cook until fragrant, about 5 minutes, flipping halfway.
5. Place the tofu back in the pan along with the cabbage, mushrooms, and noodles. 
Add the soy sauce mixture. Cover and cook until all the ingredients are cooked 
through, 10 to 15 minutes. Serve immediately
INGREDIENT TIP:  Shirataki is a low-carb, low-calorie noodle made from the konjac plant that 
is used a lot in Japanese cooking. The noodles are packaged in water and have a slight fishy 
smell from the packaging liquid. Draining, rinsing, and a quick boil reduces the odor.
Per serving: Calories: 546; T otal fat: 28g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 1,808mg; Carbohydrates: 38g; 
Sugar: 14g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 37g; Calcium: 1,139mg73 Veganized FavoritesVegetable Tempura
PREP TIME: 40 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 30 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Tempura is one of the most popular Japanese dishes, and tempura made with 
vegetables is also a shojin ryori staple dish. Traditional tempura batter is made 
with wheat flour, egg, and water, but I used soy milk in place of the egg because of 
its high protein content.
1 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
soy sauce
1/ 4 cup plus 
2 tablespoons mirin
Pinch sea salt
1/2 globe eggplant, 
halved lengthwise 
and cut into 1/2-inch 
half-moons1 1/2 cups whole-wheat 
flour or all-purpose 
flour,  divided, plus 
more for dusting
1 3/ 4 cups cold soy milk 
(1 1/ 4 cups if using 
all-purpose flour)
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
deep-frying
1 avocado, sliced1 cup maitake 
mushrooms, torn into 
bite-size chunks
1 (10-ounce) Japanese 
sweet potato, cut into 
1/2-inch rounds
8 asparagus, woody 
ends trimmed
1. To make the tempura dipping sauce, in a small saucepan, combine the dashi, soy 
sauce, and mirin. Bring to a boil and simmer for 1 minute. Remove the pan from 
the heat and let cool.
2. Sprinkle the salt over the eggplant slices and rub gently. Let sit for 5 minutes, then 
pat dry of any excess water.
3. Place 1/2 cup of flour on a plate or tray.
4. To make the batter, in a large bowl, use cooking chopsticks or a fork to quickly 
whisk together the remaining 1 cup of flour and the soy milk until just combined. 
It’s okay if there are a few lumps.
continued74 The Vegan Japanese CookbookVegetable Tempura continued
5. In a deep pot, pour enough oil to submerge the vegetables, but less than halfway 
to the top of the pot. Heat the oil over medium heat to about 350°F (see page 19);  
when a drop of batter sinks halfway and then rises with a bubble, the oil is ready. 
Working with one piece at a time, lightly flour the vegetables, shaking off any 
excess. Dip it into the batter and shake off the excess. (You can fry more than one 
vegetable piece at a time—just don’t overcrowd the pan—but it’s best to flour and 
batter them one by one.) Deep ­fry the eggplant for 2 to 3 minutes, flipping half ­
way, the avocado for 3 to 4 minutes, the mushrooms for 2 to 3 minutes, the sweet 
potato for 5 to 7 minutes, and the asparagus for 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer the tem­
pura to a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain. Repeat with the remaining 
ingredients.
6. Serve immediately with salt and the dipping sauce.
PREP TIP:  There are two key tips to making tempura batter that creates a crunchy exterior: 
(1) use cold soy milk and (2) do not mix too much. Both tips help prevent gluten formation, 
which leads to the tempura becoming soggy and greasy.
Per serving: Calories: 433; T otal fat: 14g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 1,417mg; Carbohydrates: 64g;  
Sugar: 11g; Fiber: 14g; Protein: 15g; Calcium: 197mg75 Veganized FavoritesVeggie Nest Kakiage Tempura
PREP TIME: 35 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Kakiage is a special type of tempura in which vegetable slices are gathered in tem­
pura batter to form a bird’s nest and deep ­fried to crisp up. I serve kakiage on rice 
and drizzle tempura sauce on top to compose a satiating meal. 
1/2 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup mirin
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1/2 cup whole-wheat flour
2/3 cup cold soy milk1 medium onion, 
thinly sliced
1 carrot, cut into 
matchsticks
1 cup frozen shelled 
edamame, thawedExtra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
deep-frying
4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
1. To make the tempura dipping sauce, in a small saucepan combine the dashi, 
mirin, and soy sauce over medium heat. Bring to a boil, then simmer for 
5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and soy milk until just combined. It’s 
okay if there are a few lumps.
3. In a large bowl, toss the onion, carrot, and edamame; stir in the batter.
4. In a deep pot, pour enough oil to submerge food, but less than halfway to the top 
of the pot. Heat the oil over medium heat to about 350°F (see page 19) ; when a 
drop of batter sinks halfway and then rises with bubble, the oil is hot enough.
5. Divide the battered vegetables into 12 parts. Place a battered vegetable part onto 
a ladle (the shallower the ladle bowl, the better) and loosely shape it into a round 
disc to look like a bird’s nest. Carefully slide it into the oil and deep ­fry for 1 to 
3 minutes. Shape another vegetable part and add it to the oil, one by one, frying 
2 or 3 nests at a time. After each nest begins to turn golden brown, flip and con­
tinue frying for another few minutes or until golden brown and crispy. Transfer 
the cooked vegetables onto a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain. Repeat 
with the remaining ingredients.
6. Divide the rice into serving bowls and top with the kakiage. Drizzle the dipping 
sauce over the kakiage and serve immediately.
Per serving: Calories: 438; T otal fat: 12g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 477mg; Carbohydrates: 68g;  
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 13g; Calcium: 114mg76 The Vegan Japanese CookbookGyoza Dumplings
PREP TIME: 60 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Pan fried gyoza dumplings have a crispy exterior and burst with flavor when you 
bite into them. Making homemade gyoza is labor of love, but they taste much 
better than store ­bought ones. The key to cooking crispy gyoza is to add hot water 
instead of cold when cooking them; hot water prevents the pan from cooling 
down, which makes the gyoza wrapper soggy. If you like, serve with an easy  
dipping sauce—see the variation tip at the end of the recipe.
4 cabbage leaves, 
shredded
Sea salt
1 (14-ounce) package 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain
1/2 (5-ounce) bag enoki 
mushrooms, roots 
removed and caps 
finely minced3 garlic cloves, grated or 
finely minced
1 (1-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and grated
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon miso
1 teaspoon coconut sugar
Pinch saltFreshly ground 
black pepper
40 gyoza wrappers
T oasted sesame oil
1 cup hot water, divided
1. In a medium bowl, toss the cabbage with a pinch of salt. Use your hands to mas­
sage the leaves gently and set aside for 5 minutes. Squeeze out any excess water.
2. In a large bowl, combine the tofu, mushrooms, cabbage, garlic, ginger, soy sauce, 
miso, coconut sugar, and a pinch of salt and pepper. Use your hands to mix the 
ingredients until well combined and smooth.
3. Place a gyoza wrapper on a clean work surface. Wet the rim of the wrapper with 
water and place 1 tablespoon of filling in the center. Fold the wrapper over the 
filling and seal by pinching little folds along the edges. Set aside on a plate while 
working on the remaining gyoza. Repeat with the remaining wrappers and filling.77 Veganized Favorites4. In a large frying pan, heat a drizzle of sesame oil over high heat. Arrange half of 
the gyoza dumplings in a single layer and pour 1/2 cup of hot water into the pan. 
Cover and cook until most of the water is cooked off, 2 to 4 minutes. Uncover 
and let sear until the bottoms of the dumplings becomes golden brown and 
crispy, 2 to 5 minutes. Transfer onto a serving plate and repeat with the remaining 
gyoza dumplings and hot water.
5. Serve with a dipping sauce, if desired. Enjoy immediately.
VARIATION TIP:  This gyoza recipe tastes great as it is, but serving them with a dipping sauce 
can elevate the taste. In gyoza restaurants, they are usually served with a mixture of 1 part 
rice vinegar and 1 part soy sauce. Crunchy Chile Oil (page 35) is also a great choice if you 
are a spicy food lover.
PREP TIP:  If you want to make your gyoza extra crispy, drizzle a splash of toasted sesame 
oil into the pan when you sear the dumplings. This will crisp up the wrapper even more and 
add a toasty sesame aroma to the gyoza dumplings.
Per serving: Calories: 412; T otal fat: 13g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 655mg; Carbohydrates: 53g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 6g; Protein: 26g; Calcium: 714mg78 The Vegan Japanese CookbookTofu Ka tsu
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
A thin cutlet of crunchy fried katsu, steamed rice, and a drizzle of savory sauce is a 
mouthwatering combination. I use tofu to re ­create this popular dish. I thoroughly 
season the bread­ crumb coating so it casts a tasty spell on plain tofu.
1/2 cup whole-wheat 
flour, divided
1/2 cup plus 
2 tablespoons water
4 teaspoons 
garlic powder
1 teaspoon 
smoked paprika
1/2 teaspoon salt1 cup panko 
bread crumbs
2 (14-ounce) packages 
firm tofu, pressed to 
drain, sliced through 
the middle to make 
2 thin “cutlets”
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
deep-frying4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
2 cups shredded cabbage
Japanese Vegan T onkatsu 
Sauce (page 34), 
sweet chile sauce, or 
vegan Worcestershire 
sauce, for serving
1/2 lemon, cut into wedges
1. Place 1/4 cup of flour on a medium tray or plate. In a shallow bowl, whisk together 
the remaining 1/4 cup of flour, the water, garlic powder, paprika, and salt. On 
another medium tray or plate, place the panko bread crumbs.
2. Working in order, coat the tofu slices in the flour, then dip in the batter mixture, 
and finally coat in the panko.
3. Into a deep pot, pour enough oil to submerge the food, but less than halfway to 
the top of the pot. Heat the oil over medium heat to about 350°F (see page 19); 
when a pinch of bread crumbs spread with a bubbling sound, the oil is ready. 
Add 2 tofu cutlets and deep ­fry until golden brown, 1 to 2 minutes on each side. 
Transfer the katsu to a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain. Repeat with 
the remaining tofu cutlets.
4. Divide the rice into serving bowls and arrange the cabbage on top. Cut the katsu 
into 1/2­inch slices and serve over the cabbage. Drizzle with the sauce of your 
choice and serve with lemon wedges, squeezing the juice over the katsu just 
before enjoying.
Per serving: Calories: 691; T otal fat: 24g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 479mg; Carbohydrates: 85g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 12g; Protein: 42g; Calcium: 1,143mg79 Veganized FavoritesJapanese-Style 
Pota to Croquette
PREP TIME: 60 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 45 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Japanese ­style potato croquette, or korokke, is my favorite way to enjoy potatoes. 
Korokke are mashed potato patties with chunky bits of onion and ground meat 
mixed in, covered with a crispy shell of panko bread crumbs. I tweaked the tradi­
tional recipe and swapped the meat for tempeh crumbles. Tempeh crumbles gain 
an irresistibly rich flavor once you cook them in oil and soy sauce, and I bet even 
traditional korokke lovers won’t notice the difference.
3 large potatoes (about 
2 pounds), peeled and 
roughly chopped
1 1/ 4 teaspoons sea salt, 
divided, plus more 
as needed
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
deep-frying
1 medium onion, minced1/2 (8-ounce) package 
tempeh, crumbled
1 1/2 tablespoons 
soy sauce
Freshly ground 
black pepper
10 tablespoons 
whole-wheat 
flour, divided
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon 
soy milk1 cup panko bread 
crumbs, plus more 
as needed
Extra-virgin olive oil or 
oil of your choice, for 
deep-frying
Japanese Vegan T onkatsu 
Sauce (page 34) or 
vegan Worcestershire 
sauce, for serving
1. Place the potatoes in a large pot and add just enough water to cover them. 
Stir in 1 teaspoon of salt. Bring to a boil over medium­high heat and cook until 
fork­tender, about 30 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium, if necessary, to  
prevent the water from boiling over.
2. Meanwhile, in a medium skillet, heat a drizzle of olive oil over medium­high heat. 
Add the onion and tempeh and sauté until golden brown, 7 to 10 minutes. Stir in 
the soy sauce, a generous pinch of salt, and a dash of pepper and cook for about 
2 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool.
3. Drain the potatoes and transfer to a large bowl. Mash them with the back of the 
fork until mostly smooth but with some chunks.
continued80 The Vegan Japanese CookbookJapanese-Style Pota to Croquette continued
4. Stir in the tempeh mixture, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, and dash of pepper. Add more salt 
and pepper to taste.
5. Divide the potato mixture into 8 equal parts and shape each into an 
oval­ shaped patty.
6. Place 4 tablespoons of flour on a medium plate or tray. In a shallow bowl, whisk 
together the remaining 6 tablespoons of flour and the soy milk. Place the panko 
bread crumbs on another medium plate or tray.
7. Working in order, coat the potato patties in the flour, then dip in the batter, and 
finally coat in the panko. The batter thickens as time passes, so use your fingers to 
thinly spread the batter on the surface of the patties.
8. In a deep pot, pour enough oil to submerge the food, but less than halfway to the 
top of the pot. Heat the oil over medium heat to about 350°F (see page 19); when 
a pinch of bread crumbs spreads with a bubbling sound, the oil is ready. Working 
2 or 3 patties at a time, carefully immerse the korokke into oil and deep ­fry until 
golden brown on both sides, 3 to 6 minutes, flipping halfway through. Transfer 
the korokke onto a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain. Repeat with the 
remaining patties.
9. Serve with tonkatsu sauce for dipping.
Per serving: Calories: 554; T otal fat: 16g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 602mg; Carbohydrates: 88g; 
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 18g; Calcium: 166mgChickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich m 90
83
Chapter 5
Rice and 
Noodles
Almond-Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls m 84
Tempeh “Eel” Nigiri Sushi m 85
Veggie Sushi Bowl m 86
Orange Temari Sushi m 87
Inari Sushi m 88
Chickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich m 90
Tricolored Protein Bowl m 91
Grilled Rice Balls m 92
Steamed Soy Vegetable Rice m 93
Mushroom Rice m 94
Corn Rice m 95
Soy-Marinated Avocado Bowl m 96
Japanese-Style Curry m 97
Edamame Fried Rice m 98
Miso Tahini Ramen m 99
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad m 100
Curry Udon m 101
Stir-Fried Udon Noodles m 102
Walnut Soba m 103
Grated Radish Soba m 10484 The Vegan Japanese CookbookAlmond-Crusted 
Tofu Sushi Rolls
PREP TIME: 40 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SUSHI ROLLS
Once you master the technique of making sushi rolls, you can host a fun sushi 
night anytime you want. Here, I coated tofu sticks in an almond crust.
FOR THE ALMOND-
CRUSTED TOFU
1/2 cup whole-wheat 
flour, divided
5 tablespoons soy milk
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole raw 
almonds, coarsely 
minced or pulsed in 
a blender1 (14-ounce) package 
firm tofu, pressed  
to drain and cut  
into 1-inch-
thick sticks
Extra-virgin olive oil, for 
deep-frying
FOR ASSEMBLY
4 nori sheets3 cups Brown Sushi Rice 
(page 28) or White 
Sushi Rice (page 26)
2 Persian cucumber, cut 
into matchsticks
Soy sauce, for serving 
(optional)
1. To make the almond-crusted tofu: Place 1/4 cup of flour on a plate or tray. In a 
shallow bowl or plate, whisk together the remaining 1/4 cup of flour, the soy milk, 
soy sauce, and salt. Place the almonds on a medium tray or plate. Working in 
order, coat the tofu sticks in the flour, the batter mixture, and then the almonds.
2. In a medium skillet, pour 1/2­inch depth of oil and heat over medium heat. 
Shallow ­fry the tofu strips until golden brown and crispy, 2 to 5 minutes, flipping 
halfway. Transfer the tofu sticks to a paper towel–lined plate or wire rack to drain.
3. To assemble the sushi: Place a sushi mat (if you have one) on a clean work 
surface and place a nori sheet on it, shiny ­side down. Spread 3/4 cup of rice over 
the nori sheet evenly, leaving a 1­inch strip on the top part of the nori sheet. Place 
a tofu stick and cucumber matchsticks in a line, one ­third from the bottom of the 
nori sheet. Roll up the sushi roll tightly and squeeze gently over the sushi mat to 
form it into a round shape. Repeat with the remaining nori sheets and fillings.
4. Wet your knife and cut each sushi roll into 6 to 8 pieces; serve with soy sauce for 
dipping (if using).
Per serving (1 sushi roll): Calories: 547; T otal fat: 26g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 1,051mg; 
Carbohydrates: 57g; Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 27g; Calcium: 733mg85 Rice and NoodlesTempeh “Eel” Nigiri Sushi
PREP TIME: 25 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 12 SUSHI PIECES
Tempeh makes a beautiful bed for sweet and savory eel sauce. I combined nutty 
tempeh, ocean­ y nori, and homemade eel sauce to make plant­based eel sushi.
FOR THE EEL SAUCE
1/2 teaspoon 
potato starch
1 teaspoon water
3 tablespoons mirin
3 tablespoons sake
2 tablespoons soy sauce2 teaspoons 
coconut sugar
FOR ASSEMBLY
T oasted sesame oil, 
for frying1 (8-ounce) package 
tempeh, cut into 
12 slabs
2 cups Brown Sushi Rice 
(page 28) or White 
Sushi Rice (page 26)
1/2 nori sheet, cut into 
long strips
1. To make the eel sauce: Whisk together the potato starch and water to make 
a slurry.
2. In a small saucepan over medium heat, whisk together the mirin, sake, soy sauce, 
and coconut sugar and cook for about 5 minutes.
3. Stir in the slurry and cook until the sauce thickens. Remove the pan from the heat 
and let cool.
4. To assemble the sushi: In a medium skillet, heat a drizzle of sesame oil over 
medium heat. Add the tempeh and cook until golden brown, 2 to 3 minutes on 
each side. Remove the pan from the heat and let cool.
5. Divide the sushi rice into 12 equal parts, 2 to 3 tablespoons each. Wet your hands 
with water and shape a part of rice into an oval sushi rice ball. Place a tempeh 
slab on top and wrap a nori strip around to bundle the rice and tempeh together. 
Repeat with the remaining rice, tempeh, and nori.
6. Serve the sushi with a generous spoonful of eel sauce on top of each.
Per serving (1 roll): Calories: 109; T otal fat: 5g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 149mg; Carbohydrates: 11g; 
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 1g; Protein: 4g; Calcium: 26mg86 The Vegan Japanese CookbookVeggie Sushi Bowl
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Sushi bowls are a perfect recipe when you want to eat some sushi rolls but have no 
time to roll them up. I like to whip up sushi rice and throw on any vegetables and 
beans I have on hand. An easy soy mayonnaise dressing brings everything together.
1/2 cup T ofu Mayonnaise 
(page 31) or 
store-bought vegan 
mayonnaise 
4 teaspoons soy sauce
2 cups frozen 
shelled edamame4 cups Brown Sushi Rice 
(page 28) or White 
Sushi Rice (page 26)
1 red bell pepper, cut into 
small dice
1/2 English cucumber, cut 
into small dice1 carrot, peeled and cut 
into matchsticks
2 avocados, peeled 
and sliced
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise and soy sauce.
2. Bring a medium pot of water to boil. Add the edamame and cook according to the 
package instructions, until just tender, usually 3 to 5 minutes.
3. Divide the sushi rice among serving bowls and top with the bell pepper, cucum­
ber, carrot, avocados, and edamame. Drizzle with the dressing and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 591; T otal fat: 30g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 549mg; Carbohydrates: 67g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 16g; Protein: 18g; Calcium: 110mg87 Rice and NoodlesOrange Temari Sushi
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES m MAKE S 8 SUSHI BALLS
Temari sushi are small, ball­ shaped sushi. They are very easy to make: simply 
wrap sushi rice and the topping with plastic wrap and form it into balls. The result 
is pretty little sushi without any complicated maneuvers. And if you are looking 
for a twist to spice up your sushi night, try adding a refreshing hit of citrus to your 
sushi rice. Traditional sushi rice is seasoned with rice vinegar, sugar, and salt, but 
they are not the only options. I use orange juice to add natural sweetness and an 
alluring aroma.
FOR THE SLAW
2 cups shredded 
red cabbage
1/ 4 cup rice vinegar
1 tablespoon 
coconut sugar
2 teaspoons soy sauceFOR THE ORANGE  
SUSHI RICE
1 cup frozen 
shelled edamame
3 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
3 tablespoons freshly 
squeezed orange juice
1/ 4 teaspoons salt2 cups steaming hot 
Japanese Brown 
Rice (page 28) or 
Japanese White Rice 
(page 26)
FOR ASSEMBLY
1/ 4 orange, peeled and cut 
into 8 slices
1. To make the slaw: In a medium bowl, toss together the cabbage, rice vinegar, 
coconut sugar, and soy sauce. Set aside.
2. To make the orange sushi rice: Bring a medium pot of water to boil and cook 
the edamame according to the package instructions, until just tender, usually 3 to 
5 minutes.
3. In a large bowl, whisk together the rice vinegar, orange juice, and salt. Add the 
rice and edamame and stir with a spatula or rice paddle to combine. Divide this 
into 8 equal parts, about 1/4 cup each.
4. To assemble the sushi balls: Place a piece of plastic wrap on a clean work 
surface. Place a piece of orange slice, 1/8 of the slaw on top of the orange, and one 
portion of rice on the slaw. Bring all the corners of the plastic wrap to the center 
and squeeze gently to form the ingredients into a ball. Unwrap and set onto a plate, 
orange ­side up. Repeat with the remaining orange slices, slaw, and rice and serve. 
Per serving (1 ball): Calories: 100; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 154mg; Carbohydrates: 18g; 
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 4g; Calcium: 31mg88 The Vegan Japanese CookbookInari Sushi
PREP TIME: 60 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES m MAKE S 16 SUSHI
Inari sushi is a very popular traditional sushi, in which sweet and saucy fried tofu 
pockets, called Inari age, hug vinegared sushi rice. In Shinto tradition, Inari age 
is believed to be a favorite food of the fox, which is closely associated with the 
Shinto deity Inari, the god of rice. The fox serves as a messenger of Inari. People 
combined Inari age and rice to show gratitude for the harvest. Making Inari sushi 
is a labor of love, but it’s worth it.
FOR THE INARI POCKETS
8 sushi age fried tofu 
pockets (page 9), 
halved diagonally
1 cup Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup coconut sugar
2 tablespoons soy sauceFOR THE INARI SUSHI 
RICE
2 tablespoons water
1/ 4 cup shredded carrots
3 shiitake 
mushrooms, minced
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1/ 4 cup rice vinegar
1 tablespoon 
coconut sugarPinch salt
2 teaspoons toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)
2 cups steaming-hot 
Japanese Brown 
Rice (page 28) or 
Japanese White Rice 
(page 26)
1. To make the Inari pockets: Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the tofu 
pockets, reduce the heat to medium, and cook for about 5 minutes. (Boiling the 
tofu pockets helps remove any oxidized oil.) Drain and rinse under cool running 
water. Use your palms to gently squeeze out any excess water.
2. Into a small bowl, whisk together the dashi, coconut sugar, and soy sauce.
3. Cut a piece parchment paper into a circle the size of a small pot, with a small hole 
on the center.
4. In a large pot, arrange the tofu pockets evenly and add the dashi mixture. Bring to 
a boil over medium heat, then reduce the heat to low and cover with the parch­
ment paper circle. Cook for 10 minutes.89 Rice and Noodles5. Remove the pot from the heat and let cool completely. Remove the parchment 
paper. Using clean hands, gently squeeze out the excess broth from each tofu 
pocket and set them aside. Reserve the broth in a small bowl and set aside.
6. To make the Inari sushi rice: In a small saucepan, add the water, carrots, and 
mushrooms. Cover and cook over low heat until tender, 5 to 10 minutes. Stir in the 
soy sauce and cook until most of the liquid is cooked off, about 3 minutes.
7. In a small bowl, combine the rice vinegar, coconut sugar, and salt.
8. Place the rice in a large bowl and pour in the vinegar mixture. Mix to combine. 
Stir in the vegetables and sesame seeds.
9. To assemble, divide the rice into 16 equal parts, about 2 tablespoons each. Wet 
your hands with the reserved broth and form each rice part into balls. Place a rice 
ball in a tofu pocket and gently fold both ends of the tofu pocket to the center. 
Serve fold­ side down.
PREP TIP:  Before cutting the tofu pockets, roll out each one with a rolling pin to help open 
the pocket without breaking the skin.
Per serving (4 sushi): Calories: 287; T otal fat: 7g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 644mg;  
Carbohydrates: 44g; Sugar: 17g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 8g; Calcium: 117mg90 The Vegan Japanese CookbookChickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SUSHI SANDWICHES
A sushi sandwich, called onigirazu, in which the filling is put between layers of 
rice instead of bread, is a fun alternative to a regular sandwich. It is easily made by 
folding a nori sheet around rice and filling to lock up the flavors. I sandwiched a 
“tuna” filling made with chickpeas for this recipe, but feel free to add any veggies 
you like.
1 cup canned chickpeas, 
rinsed and drained
1/ 4 cup chopped scallions, 
both white and 
green parts
1/ 4 cup T ofu Mayonnaise 
(page 31) or 
store-bought vegan 
mayonnaise2 teaspoons soy sauce
1/2 teaspoon 
garlic powder
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
4 nori sheets3 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
2 cups pea shoots or any 
sprout of choice
1. In a medium bowl, place the chickpeas and use the back of the fork to coarsely 
mash them, leaving them a bit chunky. Stir in the scallions, mayonnaise, soy 
sauce, and garlic powder. Add salt and pepper to taste.
2. Place a sheet of nori, shiny ­side down, on a clean work surface. Divide the rice 
into 8 equal parts, about 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons each. Arrange a portion of rice 
on the nori sheet and shape it into a square, with corners of the rice pointing to 
the sides of the nori sheet, leaving the points of the nori as triangles.
3. Arrange one ­quarter of the chickpea mixture and 1/2 cup of pea shoots on the rice. 
Spread another portion of rice over the filling, forming a square shape.
4. Fold all the corners of the nori sheet over the top layer of rice to completely wrap 
the rice and filling. The corners of nori should overlap each other at the center  
of the top layer of rice. Wet your fingers with water to seal the part of the nori sheet 
that doesn’t stick to the rice. Flip the “sandwich” upside down and set aside until 
the nori sheet softens and settles in place. Repeat with the remaining nori, rice, 
filling, and pea shoots. Wet the knife and cut each sushi sandwich crosswise in half.
Per serving: Calories: 312; T otal fat: 8g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 275mg; Carbohydrates: 51g;  
Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 12g; Calcium: 66mg91 Rice and NoodlesTricolored Protein Bowl
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
A tricolored bowl, called sansyoku don, is a comforting rice bowl recipe topped 
with three differently colored toppers: brown minced meat, yellow sweet 
scrambled egg, and green vegetables. I fill my plant­based sansyoku don with 
high­protein ingredients: tempeh, tofu, and edamame. 
FOR THE TEMPEH 
CRUMBLES
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup mirin
4 garlic cloves, grated
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 (8-ounce) package 
tempeh, broken into 
small crumblesFOR THE SWEET TOFU 
SCRAMBLE
1/ 4 cup mirin
4 teaspoons 
coconut sugar
Pinch sea salt
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 (14-ounce) firm tofu, 
pressed to drain
Dash turmericFOR ASSEMBLY
1 cup frozen 
shelled edamame
4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
1. To make the tempeh crumbles: In a small bowl, combine the soy sauce, mirin, 
and garlic.
2. In a medium skillet, heat the sesame oil over medium heat. Add the tempeh and 
sauté until golden brown, about 3 minutes. Stir in the soy sauce mixture and cook 
until the sauce is absorbed by the tempeh. Remove the pan from the heat and 
set aside.
3. To make the sweet tofu scramble: In a small bowl, whisk together the mirin, 
coconut sugar, and salt. In a large skillet, heat the sesame oil over medium­high 
heat. Crumble in the tofu and sauté for about 3 minutes. Add the mirin mixture 
and turmeric and cook until most of the liquid is cooked off, 2 to 3 minutes.
4. To assemble: Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Add the edamame and cook 
according to the package instructions, until just tender, usually 3 to 5 minutes.
5. Divide the rice into serving bowls and top with the tempeh, tofu, and edamame.
Per serving: Calories: 658; T otal fat: 25g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 941mg; Carbohydrates: 70g;  
Sugar: 8g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 36g; Calcium: 798mg92 The Vegan Japanese CookbookGrilled Rice Balls
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m MAKE S 8 SMALL RICE BALLS
Soy sauce tastes especially great when it’s cooked, and these grilled rice balls, 
called yaki onigiri, are a great way to enjoy its flavor. Yaki  means “grilled,” and 
onigiri means “rice ball.” Yaki onigiri is usually made in a toaster oven or on a 
fish grill, which are both common in the Japanese kitchen. I’ve simplified it into a 
stovetop recipe.
3 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)2 teaspoons toasted 
white or black sesame 
seeds (see page 19)
2 tablespoons soy 
sauce, divided1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 tablespoon mirin
Shichimi togarashi or 
red pepper flakes 
(optional)
1. In a large bowl, combine the rice, sesame seeds, 1 tablespoon of soy sauce, and the 
sesame oil. Divide the rice into 8 parts.
2. Wet your hands with water and form each portion of rice into a triangle shape.
3. In a small bowl, combine the remaining 1 tablespoon of soy sauce and the mirin.
4. Cut a piece of parchment paper into a circle that will fit in the bottom of a 
large skillet.
5. In a large skillet over medium heat, place the parchment paper circle and 
arrange the rice balls on top of the paper. Cook until the bottom of the rice is 
golden brown, 1 to 3 minutes. Flip and cook for another 1 to 3 minutes, until 
golden brown.
6. Brush the soy sauce and mirin mixture over the grilled surface and flip the rice 
balls to cook the brushed sides for about 30 seconds. Brush the tops, flip, and 
cook for 30 seconds. Transfer the grilled rice balls to a serving plate.
PREP TIP:  Please be careful not to let the parchment paper burn or catch fire. Cut the 
parchment paper smaller than the diameter of your skillet. If the paper becomes black and 
burned while cooking, replace it with a fresh sheet.
Per serving (1 ball): Calories: 93; T otal fat: 2g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 221mg; Carbohydrates: 17g; 
Sugar: 0g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 10mg93 Rice and NoodlesSteamed Soy Vegetable Rice
PREP TIME: 1 HOUR 10 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 40 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Plain steamed rice is so versatile. However, once you know how to infuse it 
with flavor, as Japanese cuisine does, it opens a new horizon. Takikomi gohan is 
steamed rice cooked with vegetables, protein, and seasonings such as dashi and 
soy sauce. The rice absorbs all the flavors and nutrients from the ingredients and 
becomes extra comforting. 
2 cups uncooked 
Japanese brown 
rice or short-grain 
brown rice
1/ 4 cup split peas
1 (3-by-5-inch) piece 
aburaage (optional)3 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup sake
1/ 4 cup mirin
2 medium carrots, cut 
into matchsticks4 shiitake mushrooms, 
cut into thin slices
1 (7-inch-long) gobo 
(burdock root) (see 
page 13), cut into 
matchsticks
1. In a medium bowl, combine the brown rice and split peas and pick out any debris. 
Rinse well until the water runs clear (see page 26). Add plenty of water to immerse 
the rice and split peas, and let soak for 30 minutes.
2. To prepare the aburaage (if using), bring a small saucepan of water to a boil. Add 
the aburaage and boil for 1 minute. Drain and rinse under running water until 
cold. Squeeze gently to press out any excess water. Cut into thin strips.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the dashi, soy sauce, sake, and mirin.
4. Drain the rice and peas well and place in a medium pot. Add the carrots, mush­
rooms, gobo, and aburaage over the rice. Pour in the dashi mixture.
5. Cover and cook over medium heat until it starts to boil and steam starts to escape 
from the side of the lid. Let boil for 1 minute, then reduce the heat to low and 
cook for 30 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside, covered, for 
10 minutes.
6. Mix with a wet spatula or rice paddle to evenly distribute the vegetables into the 
rice. Scoop into serving bowls and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 561; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 996mg; Carbohydrates: 47g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 9g; Calcium: 44mg 94 The Vegan Japanese CookbookMushroom Rice
PREP TIME: 40 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Mushrooms release lots of flavorful liquid when they are cooked, and it’s such a 
shame to waste this tasty elixir. All that liquid is absorbed when cooking the rice 
in the Japanese way, so all the savory umami is packed into this mushroom rice. 
Each type of mushroom has a different flavor, but any combination creates a 
unique taste, so try making this mushroom rice with what you find in the market.
2 cups uncooked 
Japanese white 
rice or short-grain 
white rice
1 3/ 4 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)
3 tablespoons soy sauce2 tablespoons sake
2 cups mushrooms of 
your choice, such as 
shiitake, maitake, and 
shimeji, cut or torn 
into same-size pieces1 scallion, both white and 
green parts, thinly 
sliced (optional)
1. Rinse the rice well until the water runs clear (see page 26). Add plenty of water to 
cover the rice and soak for 30 minutes. Drain well.
2. In a medium bowl, combine the dashi, soy sauce, and sake.
3. Place the rice in a medium pot and pour in the dashi mixture. Place the mush­
rooms on top. Cover and cook over medium heat until it starts to boil and steam 
starts to escape from the side of the lid. Let boil for 1 minute, then reduce the heat 
to low and cook for 10 minutes.
4. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside, covered, for 10 minutes to steam.
5. Mix the rice and mushrooms with a wet spatula or rice paddle to evenly distribute 
the mushrooms into the rice. Scoop into serving bowls and top with sliced scal­
lions (if using).
Per serving: Calories: 382; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 662mg; Carbohydrates: 81g;  
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 9g; Calcium: 8mg95 Rice and NoodlesCorn Rice
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO SOAK  m  
COOK TIME: 50 MINUTES m SERVES 6
Fresh corn is bliss in the summer, and making corn rice is my special ritual when 
corn is in its peak season. Cooking corn kernels along with the cobs does magic 
on rice, capturing all the fresh juice from the kernels and cobs, turning the rice 
extra sweet and flavorful and making the whole meal feel summery. I love enjoy ­
ing hot corn rice with vegan butter, soy sauce, and nori—my guilty pleasure during 
the summer.
3 cups uncooked 
Japanese brown 
rice or short-grain 
brown rice2 ears corn on the 
cob, husks and 
silk removed4 cups water
2 tablespoons sake
Pinch sea salt
1. In a medium bowl, place the brown rice and pick out any debris. Rinse well until 
the water runs clear (see page 28). Add plenty of water to immerse the rice and 
soak for 30 minutes, or preferably overnight. Drain well.
2. Cut the corn kernels from the cob. Do not discard the cobs.
3. Place the rice in a large pot and arrange the corn kernels over the rice. Pour the 
water and sake over the corn. Place the corn cobs in the center of the pan. Bring 
to a boil over medium heat, then sprinkle with the salt. Cover and increase the 
heat to medium­high until the steam starts to escape from the side of the lid. Let 
boil for 1 minute, then reduce the heat to low and cook for 30 minutes.
4. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside for 10 minutes to steam.
5. Remove the cobs. Mix the rice with a wet spatula or rice paddle to evenly distrib ­
ute the corn kernels. Scoop into serving bowls and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 391; T otal fat: 3g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 27mg; Carbohydrates: 82g;  
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 9g; Calcium: 33mg96 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSoy-Marina ted A vocado Bowl
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES, PLUS 15 MINUTES TO MARINATE  m  
COOK TIME: 5 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Tuna has been one of the most popular nigiri sushi ingredients since they were 
first sold in Edo, ancient Tokyo, in the 19th century. But how did sushi chefs in 
the Edo period keep tuna fresh and tasty without a refrigerator? The technique of 
marinating sashimi in a soy sauce–based liquid made it possible to extend its life 
and enhance the flavor. This technique applies to make vegetables tasty as well.
1/ 4 cup soy sauce
1/ 4 cup sake
2 tablespoons mirin
2 teaspoons 
garlic powder
2 avocados, cut into 
1/ 4-inch slices2 tomatoes, cut into 
1/ 4-inch slices
4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)1 scallion, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1 nori sheet, torn into 
small pieces
Wasabi, for garnish 
(optional)
1. In a small saucepan, combine the soy sauce, sake, mirin, and garlic powder. Cook 
over medium heat until the mixture starts to boil, then reduce the heat to low and 
continue cooking until all the alcohol in the sake has cooked off, about 1 minute, 
stirring occasionally. Remove the pan from the heat and let cool completely.
2. On a medium tray, arrange the avocado and tomato slices in a single layer and 
pour the soy sauce mixture over them. Marinate for 15 minutes.
3. Divide the rice into serving bowls and top with the avocado and tomato slices. 
Drizzle the soy sauce mixture over the bowl and garnish with scallion, nori, and 
wasabi (if using).
Per serving: Calories: 438; T otal fat: 16g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 891mg; Carbohydrates: 61g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 11g; Protein: 9g; Calcium: 51mg97 Rice and NoodlesJapanese-Style Curry
PREP TIME: 45 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 35 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Curry is an Indian dish, but when it traveled all the way to Japan, it took on a  
different flavor profile. Japanese ­style curry is a bit sweet and thickened with 
wheat flour like a roux, and usually made with three root vegetables: carrot, 
potato, and onion. I add miso to bring extra flavor.
1 tablespoon extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 onions, one minced 
and the other cut 
into wedges
4 garlic cloves, minced
2 small potatoes, 
peeled and cut into 
bite-size pieces3 medium carrots, 
peeled and cut into 
bite-size pieces
2 cups frozen 
shelled edamame
2 tablespoons 
curry powder
1/ 4 cup tomato paste
3 tablespoons 
whole-wheat flour2 cups water
1 tablespoon miso
1 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
more as needed
4 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
1. In a large pot, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Add the minced onions and 
sauté until golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Add the garlic and cook until aromatic, 
1 to 2 minutes.
2. Add the potatoes, carrots, onion wedges, and edamame to the pan. Stir and cook 
for about 1 minute to coat the vegetables with oil. Stir in the curry powder and 
tomato paste and cook off the sourness of the tomato paste, 1 to 3 minutes.
3. Stir in the flour to coat all the ingredients with it.
4. Reduce the heat to medium­low. Add the water, cover, and cook for 15 to 
20 minutes, until the potatoes and carrots are fork ­tender. Stirring occasionally to 
prevent the vegetables from burning.
5. Stir in the miso and salt. Add up to 1/2 teaspoon more of salt to taste, if needed.
6. Divide the rice into serving bowls and ladle the curry over it. The curry can be 
made a day ahead and refrigerated in an airtight container. Reheat to enjoy, as the 
second­ day curry always tastes better.
Per serving: Calories: 505; T otal fat: 10g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 507mg; Carbohydrates: 89g;  
Sugar: 10g; Fiber: 15g; Protein: 18g; Calcium: 139mg98 The Vegan Japanese CookbookEdamame Fried Rice
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
If you have some leftover rice in your refrigerator, try this easy recipe. Fried rice is 
the perfect way to give cold rice a second chance to shine! Just reheat the rice and 
add it to the pan. Want to know how to make this simple recipe even better? The 
key is adding soy sauce to the pan, not to the ingredients. The hot skillet gives soy 
sauce a charred flavor, maximizing the taste without adding too much saltiness.
2 tablespoons toasted  
sesame oil, divided
1 medium onion, minced
3 garlic cloves, 
finely minced
2 cups sliced mushrooms 
of choice, such as 
king oyster or shimeji1 1/2 cups frozen 
shelled edamame
3 cups cooked Japanese 
Brown Rice (page 28) 
or Japanese White 
Rice (page 26)
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 cups baby spinachSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
1. In a large pan, heat 1 tablespoon of sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add the 
onion and garlic and cook, stirring often, until the onion becomes translucent, 
about 2 minutes.
2. Stir in the mushrooms and edamame and cook until the mushrooms wilt down, 
1 to 2 minutes.
3. Add the rice and the remaining 1 tablespoon of sesame oil. Cook, stirring con­
stantly, for 1 to 3 minutes.
4. Make a well in the middle of the rice and add the soy sauce to the bottom of the 
pan. Stir to combine.
5. Add the spinach and cook until it wilts, 1 to 2 minutes, then season to taste with 
salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
Per serving: Calories: 325; T otal fat: 11g; Saturated fat: 2g; Sodium: 498mg; Carbohydrates: 46g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 12g; Calcium: 80mg99 Rice and NoodlesMiso Tahini Ramen
PREP TIME: 40 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 30 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Ramen chefs spend hours making their special soup. But the question is, can you 
make that rich bowl of ramen at home, and even veganized? Yes! This is an  
aromatic, buttery, satisfying soup that’s ready in no time.
1/2 cup plus 
1 tablespoon miso
3 tablespoons tahini
6 cups Kombu  
Shiitake Dashi  
(page 25), divided
T oasted sesame oil, 
for frying1 (14-ounce) package 
firm tofu, pressed 
to drain and cut into 
1/2-inch slices
1 tablespoon soy sauce
Sea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
4 cups bean sprouts1 leek, white and light 
green parts, cut 
diagonally into 
thin slices
6 garlic cloves, 
finely minced
4 (2.5-ounce) blocks 
dried ramen noodles
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the miso, tahini, and 1/2 cup of dashi.
2. In a large pan, heat a drizzle of sesame oil over medium­high heat. Add the tofu and 
sear until golden brown, 2 to 4 minutes per side. Add the soy sauce, a pinch of salt, 
and pepper, and swirl the pan to coat the tofu. Remove the tofu and set aside.
3. Add another drizzle of sesame oil to the same pan. Add the bean sprouts and leek 
and cook, stirring often, until just tender, 3 to 5 minutes. Sprinkle with salt and 
pepper to taste. Remove the pan from the heat and set aside.
4. In a large pot, heat a drizzle of sesame oil over medium heat. Add the garlic and 
cook until aromatic, 1 to 3 minutes.
5. Add the remaining 5 1/2 cups of dashi to the pot and bring it to a gentle boil, then 
let simmer for 5 minutes. Reduce the heat to low, if necessary. Add the miso mix ­
ture, a pinch of salt, and a dash of pepper.
6. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the ramen noodles and cook according to 
the package instructions. Drain well.
7. Divide the noodles, tofu, and stir ­fried vegetables into serving bowls. Ladle the 
broth over and enjoy immediately.
Per serving: Calories: 571; T otal fat: 28g; Saturated fat: 6g; Sodium: 1,501mg; Carbohydrates: 58g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 10g; Protein: 36g; Calcium: 799mg 100 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSesame Ramen Noodle Salad
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Ramen is a favorite for so many people, and there’s more than one way to enjoy 
it—like with this ramen noodle salad. Ramen noodles taste amazing even when 
served cold. This salad is very easy to make, and the combination of cold noodles 
and crunchy vegetables is so refreshing, it’s a perfect lunch for a hot day.
4 (2.5-ounce) blocks 
dried ramen noodles
2 cups frozen 
shelled edamame
4 cups mixed greens2 cups cherry 
tomatoes, halved
1 cup canned whole 
kernel corn, drained2 Persian cucumbers, cut 
into matchsticks
Creamy Sesame Dressing 
(page 38)
1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the ramen noodles and cook according 
to the package instructions. Drain and rinse under cool running water until cold. 
Drain well.
2. Bring a medium pot of water to boil. Add the edamame and cook according to the 
package instructions, until just tender.
3. Divide the ramen noodles, edamame, mixed greens, cherry tomatoes, corn, and 
cucumbers into serving bowls. Drizzle with the sesame dressing and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 357; T otal fat: 12g; Saturated fat: 4g; Sodium: 264mg; Carbohydrates: 49g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 9g; Protein: 17g; Calcium: 95mg101 Rice and NoodlesCurry Udon
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Curry is not only for rice or naan bread, and toothsome udon noodles are an 
excellent carrier for a thick curry soup. The curry powder is combined with dashi 
and soy sauce to infuse savory umami into this spicy soup. I add atsuage (fried 
tofu) as a protein source, but edamame, chickpeas, and seared tofu are also tasty 
in this curry soup.
2 (6.5-ounce) atsuage 
(thick fried tofu)
6 tablespoons 
arrowroot flour
6 tablespoons water
T oasted sesame oil, for 
stir-frying1 leek, white and green 
parts, cut diagonally 
into slices
2 cups sliced shiitake 
mushrooms
Pinch sea salt
5 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)1/2 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup mirin
2 teaspoons 
coconut sugar
2 tablespoons 
curry powder
4 (7-ounce) frozen udon 
noodle blocks
1. Bring a saucepan of water to a boil. Boil the atsuage for 1 to 2 minutes. Carefully 
drain and let cool. Cut into bite ­size chunks.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the flour and water to make a slurry.
3. In a large pot, heat a drizzle of sesame oil over medium heat. Add the leek, mush­
rooms, and salt and cook until just tender, 3 to 5 minutes. 
4. Add the dashi, soy sauce, mirin, coconut sugar, and atsuage. Bring to a boil, then 
reduce the heat and simmer for about 5 minutes.
5. Reduce the heat to low. Stir in the curry powder and season to taste with salt.
6. Give a quick stir to the slurry and stir it into the pot. Simmer until the broth thick ­
ens, 1 to 2 minutes.
7. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the udon noodles and cook according to 
the package instructions. Drain well.
8. Divide the udon noodles into serving bowls and ladle over the curry soup.
Per serving: Calories: 664; T otal fat: 20g; Saturated fat: 3g; Sodium: 2,011mg; Carbohydrates: 99g; 
Sugar: 9g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 29g; Calcium: 391mg102 The Vegan Japanese CookbookStir-Fried Udon Noodles
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES, PLUS 15 MINUTES TO MARINATE  m  
COOK TIME: 15 MINUTES m SERVES 4
When you don’t want to spend a lot of time in the kitchen, udon stir ­fry is an easy 
yet cozy dinner. If you have a frozen udon package in your freezer, they are typi­
cally ready in a few minutes. To simplify the recipe even more, I used Mentsuyu to 
add instant dashi flavor.
1/ 4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
Mentsuyu (page 30)
1 (8-ounce) package 
tempeh, cut into 
small cubes
4 (7-ounce) packages 
frozen udon noodle 
blocks or Homemade 
Udon Noodles 
(page 36)1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil, plus more 
for finishing
4 cabbage leaves, 
roughly chopped
2 medium carrots, cut 
into matchsticks
4 shiitake mushrooms, 
thinly slicedSea salt
Freshly ground 
black pepper
2 teaspoons toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)
1. In a small bowl, combine the mentsuyu and tempeh. Let sit for 15 minutes to 
marinate.
2. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the udon noodles and cook according to 
the package instructions. Drain well.
3. In a large skillet, heat the sesame oil over medium­high heat. Remove the tempeh 
slices from the marinade, letting the excess drip off, and reserve the remain­
ing mentsuyu. Place the tempeh into the pan and sear until golden brown, 1 to 
3 minutes, stirring continuously.
4. Add the cabbage, carrots, and shiitake mushrooms and cook until tender, about 
3 minutes, stirring continuously. Stir in a pinch of salt and a dash of pepper.
5. Add the udon noodles and reserved mentsuyu and cook until the liquid is 
absorbed. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
6. Transfer the noodles into serving bowls. Garnish with the sesame seeds and driz­
zle with toasted sesame oil.
Per serving: Calories: 519; T otal fat: 12g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 1,021mg; Carbohydrates: 84g;  
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 8g; Protein: 21g; Calcium: 140mg103 Rice and NoodlesW alnut Soba
PREP TIME: 30 MINUTES  m COOK TIME: 20 MINUTES m SERVES 4
If you enjoy dipping soba noodles in mentsuyu sauce and are looking for some ­
thing new, try this walnut sauce recipe. Toasted walnuts and miso make a rich and 
creamy sauce for dipping.
1/2 cup raw walnuts
1/2 cup mirin
1 1/ 4 cups Kombu Shiitake 
Dashi (page 25)1/ 4 cup soy sauce
2 teaspoons miso
4 (3.5-ounce) bundles 
soba noodles2 scallions, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced
1. In a medium dry skillet, lightly toast the walnuts over medium heat until fragrant, 
3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and let cool.
2. Place the mirin in a small saucepan and boil for 1 to 2 minutes, to cook off the  
alcohol. Alternatively, microwave it on high for 1 minute. If you are using 
cold­brewed kombu shiitake dashi, gently simmer the dashi for about 5 minutes 
along with the mirin, since cold­brew kombu shiitake dashi needs to be cooked 
before being consumed. Let cool.
3. In a blender, combine the dashi, walnuts, mirin, soy sauce, and miso and blitz 
until smooth. Divide the sauce into small dipping bowls.
4. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the soba noodles and cook until tender, 
according to the package instructions. Drain and rinse under the cold running 
water until noodles are chilled. Drain well.
5. Divide the soba noodles onto serving plates and scatter the scallions on top. Serve 
with walnut sauce for dipping the noodles.
Per serving: Calories: 493; T otal fat: 11g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 1,773mg; Carbohydrates: 82g;  
Sugar: 3g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 18g; Calcium: 64mg104 The Vegan Japanese CookbookGra ted Radish Soba
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES,  m COOK TIME: 10 MINUTES m SERVES 4
Daikon radish is one of the most used vegetables in Japanese cuisine, and daikon 
oroshi, which means “grated daikon,” is the most beloved culinary use. Daikon 
oroshi is a beautiful snowy ­white condiment, and its palate ­cleansing flavor is 
suitable for serving with fatty dishes. It also goes well with noodles; pairing daikon 
oroshi with soba noodles is my favorite, as it adds a refreshing flavor.
2 (0.6-ounce) pieces 
aburaage
1 (6-inch) daikon 
radish (about 
14 ounces), chopped
3/ 4 cup Mentsuyu 
(page 30)1 1/2 cups water
4 (3.5-ounce) bundles 
soba noodles
2 scallions, both white 
and green parts, 
thinly sliced2 nori sheets, torn into 
small pieces
1 cup microgreens 
(optional)
1. Bring a medium pot of water to a boil. Add the aburaage and cook for 2 minutes. 
Carefully drain and let cool. Cut into thin strips.
2. In a food processor or blender, pulse the daikon radish until finely minced but 
not watery.
3. In a medium bowl, combine the mentsuyu and water to make the sauce. Add 
more or less water to your taste.
4. Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the soba noodles and cook until tender, 
according to the package instructions. Drain and rinse under the cold running 
water until cold.
5. Divide the noodles into serving bowls and pour the mentsuyu sauce over them. 
Top with grated radish, aburaage, scallions, nori, and microgreens.
INGREDIENT TIP:  The easiest way to grate a daikon radish is by pulsing smaller pieces of the 
radish in a food processor or blender until they become finely minced and fluffy. If you find 
grated daikon radish too spicy, regular round, red radishes are an excellent replacement.
Per serving: Calories: 399; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 1,621mg; Carbohydrates: 83g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 17g; Calcium: 77mg Clockwise from top left: Easy Cucumber Pickle Asazuke, 108 m Pickled Lemon Napa Cabbage Asazuke, 109 m  
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle, 113 m Ume Plum Cauliflower Pickle, 114 m Sweet-and-Sour Lotus Pickle, 111
107
Chapter 6
Pickles
Easy Cucumber Pickle Asazuke m 108
Pickled Lemon Napa Cabbage Asazuke m 109
Red and White Pickle m 110
Sweet-and-Sour Lotus Pickle m 111
Spicy Pickled Cucumber m 112
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle m 113
Ume Plum Cauliflower Pickle m 114
Wakame and Cucumber Sunomono m 115
Sunchoke Miso Pickle m 116
Tofu Cheese m 117108 The Vegan Japanese CookbookEasy Cucumber 
Pickle Asazuke
PREP TIME: 5 MINUTES, PLUS 15 MINUTES TO PICKLE m MAKE S 4 SIDES
The easiest Japanese ­style pickle, called asazuke, is made with just two ingredi­
ents: vegetables and salt. Asazuke is a simple dish yet pretty profound. Massaging 
vegetables with salt condenses the flavor and umami in the ingredients by extract­
ing water from them. Maximizing the natural flavor of an ingredient is a central 
part of the philosophy of Japanese cuisine, and asazuke is an excellent example.
1 English cucumber, cut 
into 1/8-inch-thick 
diagonal slices1/2 teaspoon  
sea salt1 (1-inch) piece ginger, 
peeled and cut into 
thin strips (optional)
1. In a large mixing bowl, toss the cucumber, salt, and ginger (if using). Use your 
hands to gently massage the cucumber slices.
2. Let sit for 15 minutes to pickle. If possible, place a plate smaller than the diameter 
of the mixing bowl over the cucumber slices and stack weights, like food cans or 
a heavy book, on top of the plate to press down on the cucumbers. Pressing helps 
pickle faster and further. Refrigerate in an airtight container and enjoy within 
1 to 2 days.
VARIATION TIP:  The asazuke method is basic and versatile, and turns any vegetable into a 
tender, delicious side dish. Carrots, celery, daikon radish, and cabbage are great choices to 
enjoy their fresh, crunchy texture.
Per serving: Calories: 11; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 147mg; Carbohydrates: 3g; Sugar: 1g; 
Fiber: 0g; Protein: 0g; Calcium: 12mg109 PicklesPickled Lemon Napa 
Cabbage Asazuke
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Simplicity is a virtue of asazuke, but there is a way to elevate it if you want to. The 
easiest way to jazz up asazuke is to add aromatic ingredients. I added umami­rich 
kombu kelp and refreshing lemon to brighten up the simple dish. I like to make a 
batch and refrigerate it to enjoy for 1 to 2 days. Asazuke becomes juicier and more 
tender and rounds out its flavor as time passes with the burst of umami from the 
kombu kelp.
1/ 4 small Napa 
cabbage, cut into 
bite-size pieces
1 medium carrot, cut into 
matchsticks1/ 4 lemon, cut into thin 
quarter-rounds1 (2-inch) piece dried 
kombu kelp, cut 
into thin strips with 
scissors
1 teaspoon sea salt
1. In a large bowl, toss the cabbage, carrot, lemon, and kombu kelp. Sprinkle the salt 
over the vegetables, then use your hands to gently massage the vegetables.
2. Asazuke can be enjoyed immediately, or refrigerate for 30 minutes to tenderize 
the vegetables a bit more.
VARIATION TIP:  Kombu kelp is commonly used as asazuke add-ons, but there are many more 
ingredients to bump up the flavor. Red pepper flakes, toasted sesame seeds (page 19), 
sesame oil, ginger, yuzu citrus peel, and shiso are great additions to your asazuke.
Per serving: Calories: 19; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 315mg; Carbohydrates: 4g;  
Sugar: 2g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 27mg110 The Vegan Japanese CookbookRed and White Pickle
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO PICKLE m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Red and white is traditionally an auspicious color combination in Japan. Red and 
white pickle, kohaku namasu, is a sweet­and­ sour quick pickle enjoyed as part of 
the new year’s feast called osechi ryori. Two vegetables are traditionally used to 
represent the two colors: carrot for red and daikon for white. A tip for a beautiful 
contrast is to use more daikon than carrot since the bright hue of carrot pops in 
the snowy base of the daikon.
1 (3-inch-long) daikon 
radish (about 
7 ounces), peeled and 
cut into matchsticks
1 small carrot, cut into 
matchsticks
1/ 4 teaspoon plus 
1/8 teaspoon sea 
salt, divided1/ 4 cup rice vinegar
2 tablespoons Kombu 
Dashi (page 24)
1 tablespoon 
coconut sugar2 teaspoons freshly 
squeezed yuzu 
citrus or lemon juice 
(optional)
Yuzu or lemon zest, for 
garnish (optional)
1. In a medium bowl, toss together the daikon radish, carrot, and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. 
Set aside for 5 minutes.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the rice vinegar, dashi, coconut sugar, remaining 
1/8 teaspoon of salt, and the yuzu citrus juice (if using).
3. Squeeze out any excess moisture from the daikon radish and carrot. Add the  
vinegar mixture and mix well. Let sit for 30 minutes, mixing after 15 minutes.
4. Drain the vegetables and divide into small bowls. Garnish with grated yuzu zest (if 
using) if serving right away. Or refrigerate in an airtight container and enjoy within 
1 to 2 days.
PREP TIP:  If possible, make this recipe a day ahead. Make it through step 3, then cover and 
refrigerate to give it time to pickle, as it rounds out the flavor as it sits. The next day, con-
tinue with step 4.
Per serving: Calories: 66; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 140mg; Carbohydrates: 15g;  
Sugar: 10g; Fiber: 4g; Protein: 2g; Calcium: 74mg111 PicklesSweet-and-Sour  
Lotus Pickle
PREP TIME: 20 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO MARINATE  m  
COOK TIME: 9 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Beautifully blooming lotus flowers and floating leaves on ponds look elegant, but 
what’s even better is that they have hidden gems underneath. Lotus root, which is 
actually an edible underwater rhizome, is a crunchy, mild­flavored vegetable used 
a lot in Asian cooking. It retains its crunchiness even after it’s cooked, so I made it 
into an easy pickle to enjoy its crisp bite. Boiling it with a small amount of water, 
as in this recipe, makes it sweeter.
2 1/ 4 cups water, divided
1 tablespoon 
white vinegar1 medium section lotus 
root (about 8 ounces), 
ends trimmed, peeled 
and cut into 1/ 4-inch-
thick slices1/3 cup Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)
1/3 cup rice vinegar
2 1/2 tablespoons 
coconut sugar
1/ 4 teaspoon sea salt
1. In a medium bowl, combine 2 cups of water and the vinegar. Immerse the lotus root 
in the liquid and soak for 5 minutes. (This prevents it from browning.) Drain well.
2. In a medium pot, add the remaining 1/4 cup of water and arrange the lotus root 
evenly in the pot. The water doesn’t have to fully cover the lotus root. Cover and 
cook over low heat until the lotus root slices are just crisp ­tender and slightly 
translucent, 7 to 9 minutes. Drain and let cool.
3. In a medium bowl or storage container, whisk together the dashi, rice vinegar, 
coconut sugar, and salt. Add the lotus root. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes to 
pickle. Refrigerate in an airtight container and enjoy within 1 to 2 days.
INGREDIENT TIP:  If you are not familiar with lotus root and curious to try it, find one at an 
Asian grocery store. Lotus roots consist of multiple sections connected like a sausage. 
When you find fresh lotus root, look for one that is (1) thick and plump, (2) has no cracks or 
brown spots, and (3) has not been cut in the middle of the section. Even if you can only find 
lotus root that has been cut in middle of the section, pick the one with a juicy white cross 
section, since the cut surface browns as it gets old.
Per serving: Calories: 78; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 102mg; Carbohydrates: 18g;  
Sugar: 8g; Fiber: 3g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 28mg112 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSpicy Pickled Cucumber
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 15 MINUTES TO MARINATE  m  
COOK TIME: 3 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Spicy pickled cucumber is a staple on izakaya menus in Japan. An izakaya is a 
Japanese ­style bar where people get together after work, share various small 
dishes, and enjoy their favorite drinks. If you visit an izakaya in Japan, you will see 
people enjoying spicy pickled cucumbers with a glass of beer!
1 (1-inch) piece 
ginger, peeled and 
finely minced
1 garlic clove, 
finely minced
1/2 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil1/8 teaspoon red 
pepper flakes
1 teaspoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon rice vinegar
1 teaspoon toasted 
white sesame seeds 
(page 19)1/8 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
more as needed
3 Persian cucumbers, 
cut into 1/ 4-inch-thick 
diagonal slices
1. In a small saucepan, combine the ginger, garlic, sesame oil, and red pepper flakes. 
Cook over low heat until aromatic, 1 to 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove 
the pan from the heat and let cool completely.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the cooled aromatics, soy sauce, rice vinegar, 
sesame seeds, and salt. Add the cucumber slices and mix well to coat. Add more 
salt to taste, if necessary.
3. Refrigerate for at least 15 minutes before serving. Or refrigerate in an airtight con­
tainer and enjoy within 1 to 2 days.
Per serving: Calories: 36; T otal fat: 2g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 118mg; Carbohydrates: 3g; Sugar: 2g; 
Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 19mg113 PicklesSoy Mirin Turnip Pickle
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO PICKLE  m  
COOK TIME: 2 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Soy sauce and mirin is a sweet and savory combination that never fails, which 
applies to the pickles, too. Turnips are neutral­flavored root vegetables with 
a touch of sweetness and spiciness, making them the perfect crunchy base to 
immerse in a savory brine.
3 medium turnips (about 
12 ounces), peeled 
and cut into 1/ 4-inch-
thick slicesPinch sea salt
2 tablespoons mirin2 tablespoons of 
soy sauce
2 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
1. In a medium bowl, place the turnip slices and salt. Use your hands to gently mas­
sage the salt into the turnips. Let sit for 5 minutes.
2. In a small saucepan over medium heat, bring the mirin to a boil to cook off the 
alcohol, 1 to 2 minutes, or microwave on high for 30 seconds.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together the mirin, soy sauce, and rice vinegar.
4. Pat dry the turnips of any excess water with a paper towel. Add the soy sauce 
mixture to the bowl. Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes or preferably over ­
night to pickle. Transfer to serving bowls and serve or refrigerate to enjoy within 
1 to 2 days.
VARIATION TIP:  Y ou can make this basic recipe livelier with a few punchy additions. Pickle 
with garlic or red pepper flakes, or sprinkle with sesame seeds or shichimi togarashi to jazz 
up the flavor.
Per serving: Calories: 41; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 536mg; Carbohydrates: 7g;  
Sugar: 4g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 29mg114 The Vegan Japanese CookbookUme Plum Cauliflower Pickle
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES, PLUS 30 MINUTES TO PICKLE  m  
COOK TIME: 8 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Ume plum vinegar is a byproduct of umeboshi, a salty and super ­tart pickle made 
with ume plums, salt, and red shiso. The ume plums release their juices as they 
are pickled and fermented with salt, and red shiso gives a beautiful ruby ­red color 
to them. Ume plum vinegar is a wonderful product to add a fruity, tangy unique 
ume flavor to any dish. This recipe is a basic pickle infused with ume flavor.
3 tablespoons water
1/2 head cauliflower 
(about 14 ounces), 
cut into florets1/ 4 teaspoon sea salt, plus 
a pinch 
1/2 cup Kombu Dashi 
(page 24)1/ 4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
ume plum vinegar
2 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
1 tablespoon maple syrup
1. In a medium pot, pour in the water and arrange the cauliflower florets evenly. 
Sprinkle a pinch of salt over the florets. Cover and cook over low heat until the 
cauliflower becomes just tender, 5 to 8 minutes. Drain the cauliflower and let cool.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the dashi, plum vinegar, rice vinegar, maple 
syrup, and 1/4 teaspoon of salt. Add the cauliflower and toss in the liquid. Cover 
and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before serving. Refrigerate in an airtight 
container and enjoy within 1 to 2 days.
Per serving: Calories: 28; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 90mg; Carbohydrates: 5g; Sugar: 4g; 
Fiber: 1g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 15mg115 PicklesW akame and Cucumber 
Sunomono
PREP TIME: 15 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Sunomono is the name for a dish of vegetables or fish immersed in a vinegar 
sauce. Its refreshing sourness makes sunomono an excellent palate ­cleansing side 
dish. Unlike other pickle recipes, this sunomono tastes best when enjoyed imme ­
diately, before the moisture from the cucumber waters down the pickling liquid.
4 teaspoons 
dried wakame
2 cups cold water
1 English cucumber, cut 
into thin slices1/2 teaspoon sea salt
1/ 4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
rice vinegar
1 tablespoon 
coconut sugar2 teaspoons soy sauce
1. In a medium bowl, cover the wakame with the water and soak until rehydrated, 
5 to 10 minutes. Drain well and dry the bowl.
2. In the medium bowl, toss together the cucumber and salt and use your hands to 
gently massage the salt into the cucumber. Let sit for 5 minutes.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together the rice vinegar, coconut sugar, and soy sauce.
4. Discard the water from the cucumber and pat the slices dry of any excess water 
with a paper towel. Stir the wakame and the vinegar mixture into the cucumber. 
Divide the cucumber and wakame into serving bowls with the vinegar mixture, 
and enjoy immediately.
PREP TIP:  If you feel the sourness of the vinegar is too intense, replace some parts of vinegar 
with Kombu Dashi (page 24) to round out the flavor and add umami.
Per serving: Calories: 17; T otal fat: 0g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 308mg; Carbohydrates: 3g;  
Sugar: 1g; Fiber: 0g; Protein: 1g; Calcium: 17mg116 The Vegan Japanese CookbookSunchoke Miso Pickle
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 2 TO 3 DAYS TO PICKLE  m  
COOK TIME: 2 MINUTES m MAKE S 4 SIDES
Sometimes called Jerusalem artichokes, sunchokes are a tuberous root vegetable 
that looks like thick gingerroot. They have an earthy, nutty flavor and almost taste 
like potatoes with a crunchy bite. But unlike potatoes, sunchokes can be enjoyed 
raw. Fresh sunchokes immersed in miso gain deep fermented complexity and 
savory saltiness but retain their crunchy texture. Enjoy as an accompaniment to 
rice, add to a sandwich, or snack as is for a satisfying crunch.
2 tablespoons mirin
1/ 4 cup miso5 medium sunchokes 
(about 7 ounces), 
unpeeled
1. Place the mirin in a small saucepan and boil over medium heat to cook off the 
alcohol, 1 to 2 minutes, or microwave high for 30 seconds. Let cool.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the miso and mirin. Place the sunchokes in the 
bowl, making sure they are submerged in the paste. Or place the sunchokes in a 
large resealable bag and add in the miso mixture. Cover the bowl (or seal the bag) 
and refrigerate for at least 24 hours. Pickled sunchokes are ready to be enjoyed 
after 24 hours, but for the best results, let them sit for 2 to 3 days to fully absorb 
the flavor.
3. Pickled sunchokes are slightly dehydrated after pickling. Remove the sunchokes 
from the miso mixture and give them a quick rinse under water to remove the 
excess miso. Cut into slices and enjoy.
Per serving: Calories: 82; T otal fat: 1g; Saturated fat: 0g; Sodium: 644mg; Carbohydrates: 14g;  
Sugar: 6g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 3g; Calcium: 17mg117 PicklesTofu Cheese
PREP TIME: 10 MINUTES, PLUS 1 TO 3 DAYS TO PICKLE m MAKE S 4 SIDES
When the creamy texture of tofu meets the deep fermented flavor of miso, their 
marriage tastes like aged cheese with a complex flavor. Use this tofu to make a 
caprese salad and cheesy dips, or sprinkle it over salads.
6 tablespoons miso
1 tablespoon maple syrup1 (14-ounce) package 
silken or soft tofu, 
pressed to drain
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the miso and maple syrup.
2. Wrap the tofu tightly in a paper towel. Spread the miso mixture over the paper 
towel that is wrapped around the tofu. Place the wrapped tofu in an airtight con­
tainer or resealable bag and refrigerate for at least 12 hours or up to 2 to 3 days for 
the best results. The flavor deepens as the tofu sits.
3. Remove the paper towel along with the miso mixture from the tofu. Slice it or 
cube it to enjoy.
PREP TIP:  T ofu cheese tastes richer and is pickled better when it’s made with well-drained 
tofu. I usually start pressing tofu the day before for a tofu that becomes extra thick and 
creamy. If your tofu is not drained enough, water will be extracted during the pickling 
process. Just discard the water before you enjoy it.
Per serving: Calories: 124; T otal fat: 5g; Saturated fat: 1g; Sodium: 959mg; Carbohydrates: 12g;  
Sugar: 5g; Fiber: 2g; Protein: 9g; Calcium: 130mg119
WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
U.S. Standard Metric  
(approxi Mate)
 ½ ounce  15 g
 1 ounce  30 g
 2 ounces  60 g
 4 ounces  115 g
 8 ounces  225 g
 12 ounces  340 g
 16 ounces or  
 1 pound 455 gOVEN TEMPERATURES
Fahrenheit celSiUS  
(approxi Mate)
 250°F  120°C
 300°F  150°C
 325°F  165°C
 350°F  180°C
 375°F  190°C
 400°F  200°C
 425°F  220°C
    450°F     230°CMEASUREMENT CONVERSIONS
VO L U M E  
EQUIV ALENTSU.S. Standard U.S. Standard  
(oUnce S)Metric  
(approxi Mate)
LIQUID  2 tablespoons  1 fl. oz.  30 mL
 ¼ cup  2 fl. oz.  60 mL
 ½ cup  4 fl. oz.  120 mL
 1 cup  8 fl. oz.  240 mL
 1½ cups  12 fl. oz.  355 mL
 2 cups or 1 pint  16 fl. oz.  475 mL
 4 cups or 1 quart  32 fl. oz.  1 L
 1 gallon  128 fl. oz.  4 L
DRY  1/8 teaspoon  —  0.5 mL
 ¼ teaspoon  —  1 mL
 ½ teaspoon  —  2 mL
 ¾ teaspoon  —  4 mL
 1 teaspoon  —  5 mL
 1 tablespoon  —  15 mL
 ¼ cup  —  59 mL
 1/3 cup  —  79 mL
 ½ cup  —  118 mL
 2/3 cup  —  156 mL
 ¾ cup  —  177 mL
 1 cup  —  235 mL
 2 cups or 1 pint  —  475 mL
 3 cups  —  700 mL
 4 cups or 1 quart  —  1 L
 ½ gallon  —  2 L
 1 gallon  —  4 L120RESOURCES
FOR AUTHENTIC 
JAPANESE 
INGREDIENTS
The Japanese Pantry:  
TheJapanesePantry.MyShopify.com
Natural Import Company:  
NaturalImport.com
Umami Insider: Umami­Insider.store
FOR JAPANESE 
GROCERY ITEMS
Dainobu E­market: DainobuNYC.com
Gohan market: GohanMarket.com
FOR MACROBIOTIC 
INGREDIENTS
Gold Mine Natural Foods Company: 
Shop.GoldMineNaturalFoods.comFOR A TSUAGE
House Foods: House ­Foods.com
I used tofu cutlets in recipes that call 
for atsuage.
FOR PLUM VINEGAR
Eden Foods: Store.EdenFoods.com
Their ume plum vinegar is also  
available at many well­ stocked  
grocery stores.
FOR KITCHEN TOOLS
Daiso Japan: DaisoJapan.com
MCT Kitchen: MTCKitchen.com121INDEX
A
Almond­ Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls, 84
Arrowroot powder, 14
Avocados
Soy­Marinated Avocado Bowl, 96
Tofu Avocado Salad, 57
Vegetable Tempura, 73–74
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
B
Bell peppers
Tofu in Thick Sweet­and­Sour  
Veggie Sauce, 71
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
Buddhism, 2
Burdock root, 13
Kenchin Soup, 45
Steamed Soy Vegetable Rice, 93
C
Cabbage, 14
Ginger Tempeh, 70
Gyoza Dumplings, 76–77
Orange Temari Sushi, 87
Pickled Lemon Napa Cabbage Asazuke, 109
Savory Cabbage Pancake Okonomiyaki, 68
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102
Tofu Katsu, 78
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot, 72
Carrots
Carrot and Celery Kinpira, 54
Clear Soup, 43
Inari Sushi, 88–89
Japanese ­Style Curry, 97
Kenchin Soup, 45
Meatless Nikujaga Simmered Potatoes, 69
Red and White Pickle, 110
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad), 49
Steamed Soy Vegetable Rice, 93
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102Tofu in Thick Sweet­and­Sour  
Veggie Sauce, 71
Veggie Nest Kakiage Tempura, 75
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
Cauliflower Pickle, Ume Plum, 114
Celery Kinpira, Carrot and, 54
Chickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich, 90
Chile Oil, Crunchy, 35
Clear Soup, 43
Condiments, 5–7
Corn
Corn Rice, 95
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Cucumbers
Almond­ Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls, 84
Easy Cucumber Pickle Asazuke, 108
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Spicy Pickled Cucumber, 112
Tofu Avocado Salad, 57
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
Wakame and Cucumber  
Sunomono, 115
Curry
Curry Udon, 101
Japanese ­Style Curry, 97
Cutting, 17
D
Daikon radishes, 12
Daikon Salad, 55
Daikon Steak, 60
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Kenchin Soup, 45
Red and White Pickle, 110
Dashi
Kombu Dashi, 24
Kombu Shiitake Dashi, 25
Deep ­frying, 19
Dressing, Creamy Sesame, 38
Dumplings, Gyoza, 76–77122 IndexE
Edamame, 14
Edamame Fried Rice, 98
Jackfruit Beef Bowl, 66–67
Japanese ­Style Curry, 97
Orange Temari Sushi, 87
Savory Cabbage Pancake Okonomiyaki, 68
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Spicy Garlic Edamame, 56
Tricolored Protein Bowl, 91
Veggie Nest Kakiage Tempura, 75
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
Eggplants, 13
Stir­Fried Miso Eggplant, 58
Vegetables with Dengaku  
Miso Sauce, 53
Vegetable Tempura, 73–74
Equipment, 15–16
F
Frying, 19–20
Furikake
Homemade Furikake, 32
Juicy Kombu Furikake, 33
G
Garlic Edamame, Spicy, 56
Ginger, 12
Ginger Tempeh, 70
Green Beans in Sesame Dressing, 50
Greens
Daikon Salad, 55
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Tofu Avocado Salad, 57
Gyoza Dumplings, 76–77
Gyoza wrappers, 9
H
Half­moon cuts, 17
I
Inari Sushi, 88–89J
Jackfruit Beef Bowl, 66–67
Japanese cuisine, 3–5
Japanese sweet potatoes, 13
Lemony Sweet Potatoes, 52
Vegetable Tempura, 73–74
K
Kabocha squash, 13
Kabocha Squash Surinagashi Soup, 44
Simmered Sweet Kabocha Squash, 47
Kenchin Soup, 45
Kombu, 12
Juicy Kombu Furikake, 33
Kombu Dashi, 24
Kombu Shiitake Dashi, 25
L
Leeks
Curry Udon, 101
Kabocha Squash Surinagashi Soup, 44
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot, 72
Lemons
Lemony Sweet Potatoes, 52
Pickled Lemon Napa Cabbage Asazuke, 109
Lotus root, 13
Sweet­and­Sour Lotus Pickle, 111
M
Matchstick cuts, 17
Mayonnaise, Tofu, 31
Mentsuyu (Instant Noodle Soup Concentrate), 30
Mirin, 6
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle, 113
Miso, 8
Miso Soup, 42
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
Scallions in Sweet­and­Sour Miso Dressing, 48
Stir­Fried Miso Eggplant, 58
Sunchoke Miso Pickle, 116
Tofu Cheese, 117
Vegetables with Dengaku Miso Sauce, 53123 IndexMushrooms, 10–11
Clear Soup, 43
Curry Udon, 101
Edamame Fried Rice, 98
Gyoza Dumplings, 76–77
Inari Sushi, 88–89
Kenchin Soup, 45
Kombu Shiitake Dashi, 25
Mushroom Rice, 94
Steamed Soy Vegetable Rice, 93
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102
Tofu in Thick Sweet­and­Sour  
Veggie Sauce, 71
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot, 72
Vegetable Tempura, 73–74
N
Noodles, 5, 8
Curry Udon, 101
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Homemade Udon Noodles, 36–37
Meatless Nikujaga Simmered  
Potatoes, 69
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot, 72
Walnut Soba, 103
Nori sheets, 12
Almond­ Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls, 84
Chickpea Tuna Sushi  
Sandwich, 90
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Tempeh “Eel” Nigiri Shushi, 85
O
Okazu, 4
Orange Temari Sushi, 87
P
Pancake Okonomiyaki, Savory  
Cabbage, 68
Panko, 7
Pantry staples, 5–8Pickles, 4
Easy Cucumber Pickle Asazuke, 108
Pickled Lemon Napa Cabbage  
Asazuke, 109
Red and White Pickle, 110
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle, 113
Spicy Pickled Cucumber, 112
Sunchoke Miso Pickle, 116
Sweet­and­Sour Lotus Pickle, 111
Ume Plum Cauliflower Pickle, 114
Wakame and Cucumber Sunomono, 115
Potatoes
Japanese ­Style Curry, 97
Japanese ­Style Potato Croquette, 79–80
Meatless Nikujaga Simmered  
Potatoes, 69
Presentation, 20
Q
Quarter ­round cuts, 17
R
Recipes, about, 21
Refrigerator staples, 8–9
Rice, 3–4, 7
Almond­ Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls, 84
Chickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich, 90
Corn Rice, 95
Edamame Fried Rice, 98
Grilled Rice Balls, 92
Inari Sushi, 88–89
Jackfruit Beef Bowl, 66–67
Japanese Brown Rice, 28–29
Japanese ­Style Curry, 97
Japanese White Rice, 26–27
Mushroom Rice, 94
Orange Temari Sushi, 87
Steamed Soy Vegetable Rice, 93
Tempeh “Eel” Nigiri Shushi, 85
Tofu Katsu, 78
Tricolored Protein Bowl, 91
Veggie Nest Kakiage Tempura, 75
Veggie Sushi Bowl, 86
Rice vinegar, 6124 IndexS
Sake, 6
Salads
Daikon Salad, 55
Green Beans in Sesame Dressing, 50
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad), 49
Tofu Avocado Salad, 57
Sandwich, Chickpea Tuna Sushi, 90
Sauce, Japanese Vegan Tonkatsu, 34
Scallions
Chickpea Tuna Sushi Sandwich, 90
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Miso Soup, 42
Scallions in Sweet­and­Sour  
Miso Dressing, 48
Seaweed, 11–12
Sesame oil, toasted, 6
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Sesame seeds, 6
Creamy Sesame Dressing, 38
Green Beans in Sesame  
Dressing, 50
toasting, 19
Shallow ­frying, 20
Shichimi togarashi, 7
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad), 49
Shojin ryori, 2–3
Slicing, 17
Soups, 4
Clear Soup, 43
Crispy Tofu in Tsuyu Broth, 59
Kabocha Squash  
Surinagashi Soup, 44
Kenchin Soup, 45
Mentsuyu (Instant Noodle Soup 
Concentrate), 30
Miso Soup, 42
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
Soy milk, 14
Soy sauce, 5–6
Soy­Marinated Avocado Bowl, 96
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle, 113Spinach
Clear Soup, 43
Edamame Fried Rice, 98
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad), 49
Spinach Ohitashi, 61
Stir­fries
Stir­Fried Miso Eggplant, 58
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102
Sunchoke Miso Pickle, 116
Sweet potatoes. See  Japanese  
sweet potatoes
T
Tahini, 15
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
Tahini Goma Tofu, 51
Tempeh, 9
Ginger Tempeh, 70
Japanese ­Style Potato Croquette, 79–80
Stir­Fried Udon Noodles, 102
Tempeh “Eel” Nigiri Shushi, 85
Tricolored Protein Bowl, 91
Turnips in Meaty Tempeh Sauce, 46
Teriyaki Tofu, 65
Tofu, 9
Almond­ Crusted Tofu Sushi Rolls, 84
Clear Soup, 43
Crispy Tofu in Tsuyu Broth, 59
Curry Udon, 101
Grated Radish Soba, 104
Gyoza Dumplings, 76–77
Inari Sushi, 88–89
Kenchin Soup, 45
Miso Soup, 42
Miso Tahini Ramen, 99
pressing, 18
Shiraae (Classic Tofu Dressing Salad), 49
Teriyaki Tofu, 65
Tofu Avocado Salad, 57
Tofu Cheese, 117
Tofu in Thick Sweet­and­Sour  
Veggie Sauce, 71
Tofu Karaage, 64
Tofu Katsu, 78125 IndexTofu Mayonnaise, 31
Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot, 72
Tricolored Protein Bowl, 91
Tomatoes
Sesame Ramen Noodle Salad, 100
Soy­Marinated Avocado Bowl, 96
Tonkatsu Sauce, Japanese Vegan, 34
Turnips
Soy Mirin Turnip Pickle, 113
Turnips in Meaty Tempeh Sauce, 46
U
Umami, 10
Ume Plum Cauliflower Pickle, 114W
Wakame, 12
Wakame and Cucumber  
Sunomono, 115
Walnut Soba, 103
Wasabi paste, 7
Wedge cuts, 17
Y
Yuzu, 14
Z
Zen Buddhism, 2ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Writing the cookbook was a challenging yet very exciting project for me. I’m so 
happy that I can finally share my passion for food and this cookbook with you. 
I would like to thank all the people involved in this creative process.
To Shinya, my partner, thank you for being with me throughout the whole 
creative process. I couldn’t have completed the project without your support 
and patience.
To Callisto Media, thank you to the talented team that believed in me and 
supported me in creating this cookbook.
I would like to thank all my followers, subscribers, and, of course, you! 
Thank you for being interested in this cookbook, and for letting me be part of 
your cooking life. You are the inspiration and reason for me to keep going  
forward. Thank you so much, and I hope you enjoy this cookbook!
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Yoko Segawa is a recipe developer, content creator, 
food photographer, and videographer with a passion for 
plant­based food and Japanese cooking. She is the creator 
of the Yoko’s Kitchen Instagram page (@yokos.kitchen) 
and YouTube channel, where she shares beautifully styled 
vibrant recipes and tips for healthy and easy cooking. She 
was born and grew up in Japan and now resides in the 
United States, where she creates recipes with local  
ingredients and a Japanese influence.
75 F a vorites Made Simple
Yoko Sega w aTheVegan
Japanese
Cookbook
U.S. $16.99 CAN $22.99 R0Crea te vegan 
versions of 
your f a vorite 
Japanese dishes
Now you can satisfy your cravings for Japanese delicacies 
while sticking to a plant-based diet. The Vegan Japanese 
Cookbook delivers /seven.old/five.old recipes to help you make both 
traditional vegan dishes and veganized versions of 
beloved classics. 
Japanese culinary traditions
Learn about the practice of Shojin Ryori (a vegetarian 
style of eating introduced by Japanese monks), the core 
components that make up a Japanese meal, the 
importance of umami, and more. 
Simple, fla vorful recipes
Prepare simple, tasty dishes like Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot and 
Vegetable Tempura using straightforward recipes.
Japanese pantry essentials
From mirin and wasabi paste to udon noodles and miso, 
see how to best stock your pantry with Japanese staples. 
Classic recipes include:  Gyoza Dumplings, 
Tofu Katsu, Miso Tahini Ramen, Almond-Crusted Tofu 
Sushi Rolls, and Spicy Pickled Cucumber. 
Crea te vegan 
versions of 
your f a vorite 
Japanese dishes
Now you can satisfy your cravings for Japanese delicacies 
while sticking to a plant-based diet. 
Cookbook
traditional vegan dishes and veganized versions of 
beloved classics. 
Japanese culinary traditions
Learn about the practice of Shojin Ryori (a vegetarian 
style of eating introduced by Japanese monks), the core 
components that make up a Japanese meal, the 
importance of umami, and more. 
Simple, fla vorful recipes
Prepare simple, tasty dishes like Tofu Sukiyaki Hot Pot and 
Vegetable Tempura using straightforward recipes.
Japanese pantry essentials
From mirin and wasabi paste to udon noodles and miso, 
see how to best stock your pantry with Japanese staples. 
Classic recipes include:
Tofu Katsu, Miso Tahini Ramen, Almond-Crusted Tofu 
Sushi Rolls, and Spicy Pickled Cucumber. 
YOKO SEGA W A is a recipe developer, content creator, videographer, 
and food photographer who is passionate about both Japanese food and 
plant-based cooking. She shares tips for healthy cooking and beautifully styled, 
vibrant dishes on her Instagram page and YouTube channel: Yoko’s Kitchen. 
A native of Japan, Yoko now resides in the United States and uses Japanese 
in/f_l  uence to create recipes using local ingredients. The Vegan Japanese Cookbook SEGA W A