INTRODUCTION  :  11Which brings me to another important point: I wrote 
this book with you in mind, but it is not just for you. 
It is for everyone. Because in its most basic form, a 
low-sodium diet is a diet free of processed food and full of whole, fresh ingredients, or, as I like to say, “low-so” food is just “slow food” with the letters 
mixed around. Whether you know people who are on 
a plant-based diet, doing “the Whole 30” challenge, or simply “eating clean,” the core principle remains the 
same: Ditch the junk for real ingredients. And the tips, 
recipes, and advice in this book are truly applicable to anyone—from those on a special eating plan to those looking for fresh ideas on how to eat more fresh food. 
So don’t hog this book for yourself—share it. There’s 
literally something for everyone in here.
But, now, back to you. If you’re completely new to this 
whole low-sodium thing, use this book as your start-
ing line and let it help you ease into a new routine. If you consider yourself a low-so pro, use this book as a 
reference guide; flipping to pages as needed, adding 
more tricks to your already well-stocked arsenal. And if you ever find yourself in a sodium-related challenge or a recipe rut, use this book like a set of jumper 
cables to get a boost of creativity. 
No matter where you find yourself, use this book as 
a companion, to not only all the other cookbooks and 
guides out there but also the professional advice and 
assistance you receive from your health-care provid-ers and dietitians. Use  it to create food you crave and 
a life you enjoy. Use it to make you a more confident 
cook. Use it to change food obsessions from fake cheesy puffs to cayenne dusted polenta fries. And in the end, use it to transform the way you feel about 
low-sodium diets and see it for what it really is; real, 
good food that will make you feel really good.I am not a doctor, or a nutritionist, or 
a dietitian. Nor a rock star, a karate expert, or a culinary school–certified chef, for that matter. What I am is a motivational eater. And with a dozen 
years of experience cooking, dining, 
and adventuring under my non–black belt, I know a thing or two about finding and making satisfying low-sodium food wherever I go. I have devoured cookbooks, and taught myself how to make everything from salt-free bread to no-sodium Bloody Marys. I have asked tons of questions of professionals—both 
the cooking and the medical kind. And 
over time, I’ve replaced the long list of “no you cannots” with enthusiastic “oh hell, yes you cans!” You might even say that I’ve kicked major high-sodium challenges in the butt, karate-style.The advice in this book is meant to help you do the same, by filling you with enthusiasm and inspiring you with 
creativity when it comes to your new 
diet, as well as directing you to valuable resources for further information. But remember, when it comes to your health and the specifics of your diet, always consult your medical professionals about what’s right for you.1
Transform
Let’s Go Low-SoTRaNSfOR m  :  13
TRaNSfOR m  :  13
magine a world where you could improve 
your health just by eating. Not with thick 
protein shakes or chalky meal replacements, 
but with bold, bright food. Food that makes 
your mouth water, that entices your friends to 
come over for dinner, that deserves to be on the 
cover of a cookbook. Wouldn’t that be amazing?
Well, this world exists. For most people, just 
by filling their plates with less processed foods and more fresh ingredients, they can reduce their risk of heart disease, diabetes, and other health issues.
So what is this tasty solution called and where 
has it been all your life?
I’m simply talking about a low-sodium diet. 
You’ve most likely heard your doctor, dietitian, or TV news anchor mention it before. That was when any mouthwatering excitement began to fade.
Visions of tasteless chicken, soggy vegetables, 
and hours spent prepping in the kitchen have long kept people away from giving a low-
sodium diet a fair chance. Fear of changing 
routines and losing favorite comfort foods drive people away from the diet instead of toward it. And while people have the opportunity to improve their health with less 
sodium, which seems like a no-brainer, no one 
is taking the bait.That’s because the bait still isn’t very appetizing. Low-sodium diets continue to be depicted not as food, but as a prescription, 
one that requires deprivation and ditching 
convenience and routine (a.k.a. the familiar). 
And after receiving a sobering diagnosis 
that replaced your clean bill of health, it’s understandable why people might refuse to give up anything else, like culinary comforts.
To inspire people, we need to change the way 
we talk about low-sodium food—in look, feel, and taste. Even in name (we’ll get to that). This 
approach to healthful eating must shift from 
something medical to something culinary. It must allow people to not only stay well, but live well. It must transform from something enforced to something we enjoy. Which isn’t a 
difficult task, because in the end, we are simply 
talking about replacing the muddled taste of packaged meals with real food and real flavor.
So get ready to ditch the “diet” concept and 
dive into a total low-sodium transformation—
or what I like to call the “low-so” life—which you’ll discover is full of fresh ingredients, strong spices, and beautiful meals to share with others.I14  :  LOW-SO GOODUnderstanding Salt 
and Sodium
Before cutting down on salt and sodium, it’s important to understand the what, the 
where, the why, and the how. What is the difference between table salt and sodium? 
Where do salt and sodium exist in your food and your routine? Why does salt make 
food taste so good? How much do you need—or need to minimize—for good health? And how can you cook successfully without it?
By learning the answers to these questions, you’ll be 
better prepared to avoid high-sodium traps, mimic 
salt in cooking, and maintain a balanced and healthful 
diet, which will make the whole low-so switch a lot easier and a whole lot tastier.
TABLE SALT AND 
SOURCES OF SODIUM
You may have heard someone make the following 
statement: “I don’t eat a lot of sodium. I never salt 
my food.”
The truth is, the saltshaker is not the only source of 
sodium. Actually, the salt you use (or don’t use) while 
cooking and before you dig into dinner contributes 
only about 10  per cent of the sodium you consume, 
according to the American Heart Association.
Although people tend to use the two terms salt and 
sodium interchangeably, sodium is a component of the 
table salt you use for cooking and sprinkling. Table salt 
is 40  per cent sodium and 60  per cent chloride. Sodium 
also exists in most foods naturally, like carrots (42  mg  per large carrot), eggs (70  mg per egg), chicken thighs 
(80 mg per 3-oz [85-g] boneless, skinless thigh), and 
lobster (150  mg per 3-oz [85-g] lobster).
Sodium also hides in unexpected places, like milk 
(about 100  mg per 1  cup [240  ml]), soy sauce (more 
than 1000  mg per 1  Tbsp), your favorite salad dressings 
(about 135  mg per 1  Tbsp ranch dressing, depending 
on brand), baking powder (more than 400  mg per 
1 tsp) and baking soda (1,249  mg per 1  tsp), as well 
as medications (like antacids). So even if you don’t “salt” your food, sodium is found in other ingredients 
you use when cooking and eating, from processed 
foods to the produce aisle. And these all contribute to your daily total.
note:  All sodium counts given in this book are based 
on averages provided by the USDA National Nutrient 
Database for Standard Reference Release 26 (ndb.nal.usda  
.gov/ndb/search).TRaNSfOR m  :  15WHY WE NEED SODIUM  
AND WHY SOME OF US  
NEED LESS
Sodium is an essential electrolyte for our basic, everyday 
bodily functions, such as balancing fluids, transporting 
nutrients, transmitting nerve impulses, and contracting 
muscles. As Rachel K. Johnson, PhD, RD, and American Heart Association spokesperson, notes, “Sodium is also needed to replace losses from sweat in people who 
engage in heavy physical activity.” The bottom line is: 
We need sodium to stay healthy and to survive.
Depending on your health needs and sodium 
sensitivities, however, too much sodium can “hold 
excess fluid in the body,” Dr. Johnson says, putting stress on your body, increasing blood pressure and 
risk of disease. For these populations, she adds, 
“eating less sodium will help minimize the rise in blood pressure as well as reduce the risk of developing other conditions associated with too much sodium, 
such as stroke, heart failure, osteoporosis, stomach 
cancer, and kidney disease.”
So how much sodium should you be consuming? 
The number will be different for each person, 
depending on age, race, health, and predisposition for certain diseases. It’s essential to consult a doctor 
or registered dietitian to find the right sodium-
intake plan for your individual needs. But currently, the USDA’s 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans (cnpp.usda.gov/dietaryguidelines) recommends an  
upper limit of 2,300  mg of sodium a day. And for 
more than 50  per cent of the population—those who 
are older than fifty-one; African American; or have high blood pressure, diabetes, or chronic heart or kidney disease—the guidelines recommend less than 
1,500  mg of sodium a day.
To put this in perspective, 2,300  mg of sodium is equal 
to 1 tsp of table salt, and 1,500  mg is about 3/4 tsp of 
table salt or a little more than 1  Tbsp of soy sauce. And 
let’s just say, most people—nine out of ten Americans, according to the American Heart Association—take 
in more than double the lower limit, around 3,400  mg  
of sodium. Factor in high-sodium, fast-food meal choices and sometimes people hit those numbers by 
lunch. Gulp.
That’s because more than 75  per cent of the sodium 
people consume comes from packaged goods, pro -
cessed foods, and restaurant meals. But you don’t 
need to hide out in your kitchen only eating raw 
vegetables. We all just need to learn how to make 
smart food choices.
So, “low-so” food really is just “slow” food with 
the letters mixed around. Lowering sodium in its 
simplest form means using fresh ingredients, ditching processed products, enjoying the process of making real food, and getting creative in the kitchen to revise 
favorite recipes.
TOP SOURCES OF 
SECRET SODIUM
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and  
the American Heart Association recently put the 
spotlight on six surprising foods that are top 
contributors to the sodium in our diets, all commonly found on pantry shelves, restaurant menus, and people’s cravings lists. They call them “The Salty Six.” 
You can keep the Six from sneaking too much sodium 16  :  LOW-SO GOODinto your daily diet by having them on your radar 
and knowing how to replace them with lower-sodium 
choices. 
bread
Sodium Facts:  You might not think of two pieces of 
bread as an unhealthful choice. But if you’re watching your sodium intake, each slice can equal more than 
200 mg of sodium, depending on the product.
Lower-Sodium Solution:  Depending on your sodium 
needs, reduce those numbers by using one slice of 
bread instead of two. Buy low-sodium or no-salt-added 
bread. Use sturdy greens, corn tortillas, or sodium-free sushi nori to make a wrap. Try using sodium-  
free matzo crackers for an open-face sandwich. Or fire 
up the oven and make your own loaf!
cold cuts
Sodium Facts:  According to the American Heart 
Association, a 2-oz [55-g] serving (or about six thin slices) of deli meat can equal more than half the day’s 
recommended 1,500  mg sodium intake.
Lower-Sodium Solution:  Look for low-sodium or salt-
free meat products (they exist), or make big batches of roasted chicken or meat on the weekend to fill salads 
and those low-sodium sandwiches all week long.
pizza
Sodium Facts:  With the dough, sauce, cheese, pep-
peroni, and other salty toppings like olives, even one 
slice of pizza can easily deliver half your daily 1,500  mg  
sodium allotment.
Lower-Sodium Solution:  Depending on your sodium 
needs, you can simply choose toppings wisely, stick-
ing to low-sodium options (like vegetables versus 
sausage). You can make your own dough and sauce from scratch. Or even use chickpea flour to make a ready-to-eat pizza crust (see page  9 4) in less time 
than it takes to order and wait for delivery.
poultry
Sodium Facts:  When it comes to chicken (and even 
beef, pork, fish, and shellfish), some manufacturers 
plump the protein with salty solutions before it hits 
the store, increasing weight and price, not to men-tion upping sodium content in chicken as much as 
500 per cent.
Lower-Sodium Solution:  Avoid items with “added 
broth,” “percent solution,” “enhanced,” “brined,” and 
even “natural flavoring” listed on the label in small 
print. Look for “air-chilled” and “no water added” to identify products that are plumping-free. And when in doubt, read the nutritional information: Natural chicken 
should have 70  to 90  mg of sodium per 4  o z [115  g].
sandwiches
Sodium Facts:  I think you know what’s coming by 
now. Between the bread, the spread, the deli meat, 
and the cheese, a sandwich ends up being a high-  
sodium choice.
Lower-Sodium Solution:  Get creative and ask your 
local sandwich shop to wrap your sandwich in lettuce 
instead of bread. Use any of the bread and meat swaps 
suggested on page  120 to make your own low-so subs 
at home. Or use your favorite sandwich fillings as 
inspiration for a salad instead.
soup
Sodium Facts:  A single 1-cup [240-ml] serving of 
canned soup can range from 100  to 1,000  mg of sodium. 
If you have double that amount of high-sodium soup, 
you’ve already exceeded the 1,500  mg sodium per day 
limit.TRaNSfOR m  :  17Lower-Sodium Solution:  Let’s just agree that freshly 
made soup will always taste better than canned soup. 
Of course, low-sodium soups and even salt-free stock 
options exist, which are great to have on hand for con-venience. Just make sure to consult your physician to make sure these products fit within your dietary 
needs, because some may use potassium-chloride salt 
substitutes for flavor.
Above all, remember to inspect the label of any product 
and search for high-sodium key words and clues (more 
about that on page  7 4). With a keen eye and a quick 
flip of a can or package, you’ll quickly become a skilled 
sodium sleuth and an expert in eliminating high-
sodium products before they hit your plate.
And don’t forget about medications. Sometimes 
sodium sneaks its way into pills and vitamins, too. So 
check labels and, when in doubt, talk to your doctor 
and pharmacist. 
SALT SUBSTITUTES
While salt replacements exist, not every substitute is meant for every body. “Low-sodium salts” and 
“no-sodium salts” use potassium chloride to replace 
a percentage or all of the sodium chloride. For most people, potassium chloride is well tolerated in moderate amounts. But some people on kidney-
friendly diets or certain medications—like diuretics 
or heart or blood-pressure medications—may need to avoid these products because of potential risks of 
elevated blood-potassium levels. 
For those who must avoid potassium chloride, the 
good news is that several companies make sodium- 
and potassium-free spice and herb blends, or use nutritional yeast and kelp to offer salt-like taste. When 
selecting one of these, be sure to buy those products labeled “MSG free.” Do not use these products if you 
have a yeast intolerance or allergy. Be aware that 
seaweed contains iodine and, in some cases, may interfere with thyroid functions, so it’s best to use on an occasional basis. Alternatively, if you can handle a 
little more sodium, try using small amounts of salty ingredients in place of the shaker, like a sprinkle of shredded Parmesan (90 mg per 1 Tbsp) or goat cheese 
(around 100 mg per 1 0z [28 g]); chopped olives (50  mg  
per olive, depending on brand) or low-sodium sweet pickles (30 mg per 1 cup [140 g], chopped, depending 
on brand); or panko bread crumbs (40 mg per 
1/2 cup 
[30 g]), crumbled low-sodium crackers, or flavored seaweed snacks. No matter what salt substitute you 
choose, remember to always consult your doctor or dietitian to pick a salt substitute that’s safe for you.
table salt versus sea salt
Sea salt can boast that it has bigger and 
flakier crystals than table salt, and also a more natural taste. But one thing table salt and sea salt still have in common is sodium content. The dietary guidelines 
for daily sodium limits still apply, even if 
the salt is from the Himalayas or is mixed with truffle bits.18  :  LOW-SO GOODExploring the Five Tastes
Now that we’re better acquainted with salt and sodium, let’s get to know our tongues 
a little bit better, too. Because this licking and lapping device does a lot more than 
rescue drips of sauce from the corner of your mouth.
The tongue actually plays a very important role in helping 
us know what tastes good (mint chip ice cream, hooray!) 
and what tastes bad (moldy cantaloupe, boo). Of course, 
the nose is also involved, but we’ll talk about that in a second. By giving your tongue what it’s looking for, you’ll end up with a satisfying low-sodium meal.
Covered in taste buds, our tongues can detect five dis-
tinct tastes: sweet, sour, bitter, umami (or savory), and salty. It’s a combination of these elements that move 
dishes from boring to pleasant to memorable to “let’s 
make this again immediately.” An understanding of the tastes and how to combine them will help you quickly 
fine-tune a dish or make something up, on the fly.
Here’s the mind-blowing part of the lesson: Each of 
these five tastes can be found in whole foods, natu-
rally. No bottles, no sauces, no seasoning, no salt or 
sodium necessary. That’s right. Mother Nature made her own spice rack with fruits, vegetables, and meat. So let’s explore the five tastes with this simple plate 
of raw ingredients.
sweet
Let’s start with the taste we probably think we know 
best: Sweet. When we think of sweet, we typically think of fruit—cobblers, strawberry-topped waffles, 
and banana smoothies. But it’s time to start thinking of sweet ingredients as a friend of savory food, too. The next time you see rosy raspberries or plump nectarines, transform them into a sauce for grilled 
meat or mix them into a vegetable-heavy salad. And 
don’t forget that nonfruit items—like peas, corn, and basil—are sweet, too. A dash of natural sweetness will balance and enhance other flavors in a dish.
Try This:  Take a bite of in-season berries. Then explore 
some nonfruit sweetness with fresh-from-the-cob 
corn kernels or Roasted Red Pepper and Butternut 
Squash Soup (page 243). Then go to the next level and 
try Roasted Fig and Tomato Slow Jam (page  162), on 
its own or atop a juicy pork chop or steak, and enjoy the dance of naturally occurring sweet, savory, and 
umami tastes.
sour
Adding something sour to a dish, like citrus or vin-
egar, is akin to splashing your face with cold water. 
It’s a quick way to wake up your food. If you want to 
resurrect leftovers, a squeeze of lemon will do the trick. When that salad needs a little extra oomph, try a dash of vinegar. And if that soup hits only one note, 
add another with a tangy dollop of Greek yogurt.
Try This:  Don’t tell your dentist, but take a bite of 
a lemon wedge. Then sample Lemon Chicken Orzo 
(page  17 2) or Macaroon Custard Tarts (page  225) to 
see how well a sour ingredient plays with sweet and 
savory ingredients.TRaNSfOR m  :  19bitter
Some people wince at the thought of adding bitter 
ingredients to their dishes. But just the right amount 
of bite offers a pleasant surprise to the palate, espe-
cially in typically mild or somewhat sweet dishes like mashed potatoes, shrimp, or roasted salmon. Here’s the thing about bitter ingredients, whether you’re 
talking onions or wasabi: By adding a little heat and 
something sweet, bitter ingredients mellow out so they become pleasant instead of piercing.
Try This:  To experience a mild bitter flavor, try raw 
radish on its own or in Radish-and-Onion Yogurt 
Spread (page 179). Or go for broke with a bite of raw 
radicchio or a slice of horseradish. Then try one of the 
Kale Salads for Different Seasons (page  182) to experi -
ence how a little sweetness from avocado and the sour 
of citrus balances out the bitterness in the greens.
umami
When people think of umami, they think of high-sodium 
products like soy sauce, teriyaki sauce, and kimchi. But 
umami (or savory) flavor actually exists naturally in 
mushrooms, tomatoes, beef, and even green tea. And umami flavor actually gets stronger when ingredients are aged, dried, cooked, cured, or simply paired with 
other umami-rich foods. So if you need to increase the 
savory taste of a dish, go for more umami.
Try This:  Add shiitake mushrooms to your next veg-
etable stir-fry and enjoy the savory boost. Then try 
Genmaicha Microwave Soup (page  122) or Cauliflower 
Steaks with Curry Mushroom Gravy (page  203) for a 
multiplied umami experience.salty
You’re probably thinking, how can you create a salty taste without salt? Well, remember that most foods 
have sodium in them naturally. We can use that fact 
to our cooking advantage. Using ingredients like beets, meat, and shellfish that are naturally higher in sodium, you can infuse favorite typically salty dishes 
with natural salty tastes. No saltshaker needed.
Try This:  Start by chewing on a piece of celery. Wow, 
kind of salty tasting, right? Then make Carrot–Sweet 
Onion Dressing (page  169) to add balance to sweet 
and smoky Grilled Lettuce Salad (page  171) or try 
Toasted Rice Patties (page  180) with their salty tasting 
seaweed sprinkle. 20  :  LOW-SO GOODMimicking Salt: 
Anything Salt Can Do, 
You Can Do Better
Now that we know how to replicate each of the five tastes with whole ingredients, 
let’s focus a little bit more on salt and how it enhances our taste experience. To do 
that, let’s turn to my friend Barb Stuckey, who is an actual food developer (which is  
a real job, people!).
Barb wrote a book called Taste What You’re Missing, 
which is all about getting more flavor from your food. 
As the executive vice president of marketing and sales 
at Mattson (a food and beverage development com-pany), she is an expert at improving the taste of food. She understands the actual “science-y” side of why a 
bowl of creamy mushroom soup makes us drool. And 
she knows exactly what happens when we sprinkle a little salt on top.
According to Barb, salt plays five main roles in enhanc-
ing the taste of our meals:
 +It magnifies the taste of an ingredient.
 +It wakes up the flavor.
 +It releases volatiles, or the aromas found in food 
ingredients (oh hey, nostrils!).
 +It balances the other tastes.
 +It makes things taste salty.But here’s what’s really cool. Just like we can mimic 
the five tastes with whole ingredients, you can easily 
replicate each of these salt-enhancing traits without 
touching the saltshaker.
Salt magnifies the taste of an ingredient. Sprinkling 
a little salt on a tomato will magically increase the 
essence of tomato, which is a great trick for making bitter or out-of-season tomatoes more palatable. But there’s another way to achieve the same level of flavor 
enhancement; simply apply time and heat. By giving 
tomatoes a slow roast, you can intensify the tomato flavor. The same goes for a stew braised for hours 
in the oven or all day in a slow cooker. The longer 
dishes cook, the more the flavor gets coaxed out of the ingredients.
Salt wakes up the flavor. When a dish tastes flat or 
leftovers taste old, a little salt gives food a second chance. But a splash of something sour will achieve the same results. And while citrus juice offers an awe-
some effect, don’t forget the peel. By adding the zest 
of that lemon or orange, you will also release the smell of the citrus, which will activate that nose of yours. 
Smelling food is actually 90 percent of tasting it.TRaNSfOR m  :  21Salt releases volatiles. Volatiles are the essences emitted 
from a food that help us smell it and taste it. Salt helps 
release these volatiles. But heat also releases volatiles. 
This is why you toast spices before using them, and why the aroma of sautéed garlic and onions make your mouth water.
Salt balances the other tastes. If you want to test 
this, try making a chocolate chip cookie without salt. It tastes flat. But that doesn’t mean you can’t make 
really good low-sodium chocolate chip cookies (or 
any dish) without salt. You just need to replace the salt with something else to enhance the other tastes. 
Whether you use a sprinkle of chili powder or ground 
cardamom, an extra taste element (spice, color, smell) goes a long way in rebalancing chocolate chip cookies. Or any recipe you decide to make salt-free.
Salt makes things taste salty. Ten minutes ago, you 
would have said this was an impossible challenge to resolve. But now you know that you can find salty 
tastes in whole ingredients. By using beets, celery 
seed, or even shrimp shells (when making a broth), you can add a salty kick to favorite recipes.
Barb adds that increasing umami in a dish will help 
curb the natural craving for salt. And by playing up the other senses—touch, smell, and sight—you can 
help distract the palate and enhance the food in other 
ways, like using interesting textures, pleasant odors, and pretty colors.
 
Finding Flavor
Now that you know what salt does to your food, let’s replace it—with a new approach 
to food as well as a new attitude. Because to successfully remove the salt from favorite 
dishes, you must not only fill the gap—with spice, texture, or color—but also flip your 
perspective. And that’s why we are about to Rediscover, Rebel, Relate, and Refocus.
REDISCOVER: ALTERNATIVE 
FLAVOR BOOSTERS
When it comes to flavor-enhancing alternatives, the 
options are endless. You can increase the taste and 
appeal of your food by simply exploring new cuisines; 
adding unexpected texture; using a grill or slow cooker to add smokiness and depth; or serving your finished 
dish on those gorgeous inherited china plates you 
have yet to use. Use the following ingredients, tools, and cooking tricks to replicate all of salt’s flavor-boosting powers without using a single grain of it.22  :  LOW-SO GOODspices, herbs, vinegars, oils, 
citrus
From paprika to cinnamon, the world of spices will 
enhance even the simplest of meals (like roasted 
chicken or sautéed vegetables). And don’t forget about 
flavored vinegars, flavored oils, fresh and dried herbs, and citrus. But remember, check labels. Even spices, oils, and vinegars may contain salt or seasoning. Buy 
only items marked “no salt added” or containing 
0 mg of salt. If something doesn’t exist, or you feel 
bold, make your own flavored oils, vin  egars , and spice 
blends, like Maharaja-Style Curry Powder (page  1 95).
uncommon pairings
The more you surprise yourself and your palate, the 
less you’ll miss salt. Take creative liberties with reci-
pes and add uncommon ingredients to the mix. Make 
a pasta sauce with puréed pumpkin. Use jams instead 
of steak sauce. Toss salads with juicy berries instead 
of dressing. You’ll be swept away by the surprising, 
low-sodium combinations.
color and feel
As the adage goes, you eat as much with your eyes as 
with your mouth. The look of your plate proves just 
as important as what you put on it. So don’t shy away 
from brightly colored dishes and foods. Mix up tex -
tures as well, putting creamy and crunchy ingredients together. The more there is to see and feel, the less 
you’ll search for the salt.ovens, grills, and slow cookers
Not all flavor comes in a bottle. You can create a tasty 
meal with just an oven, a slow cooker, or a grill. When 
you roast ingredients or stew them, the heat and 
longer cooking times magnify the natural sweetness and savory tastes in your ingredients. A grill will add a smoky essence to your dishes. Throw smoking chips 
on the coals to further infuse your ingredients, from 
peaches to fish, with smells of hickory, mesquite, cherry, and apple, to name a few options.TRaNSfOR m  :  23CATHERINE MCCORD  
PLAYS WITH HER FOOD
Let me introduce you to Catherine McCord, the founder of Weelicious.com, author of 
One Family. One Meal. and Weelicious Lunches, and a whiz when it comes to making 
healthful food for her entire family. But before you ask what a kid’s meal has to do with 
low-sodium diets, let me remind you that enjoying salt-free food comes down to attitude. 
Who says adults aren’t just as picky and green-aphobic as toddlers? No matter who you 
need to feed, a little fun goes a long way, especially when trying something new. Whether 
it’s the addition of color (purple cauliflower!), a twist on an old recipe (baked potato 
tacos!), or turning dinner into a family event, use Catherine’s advice to make healthful 
meals into happy meals.
We know that whole foods are better for our bodies. 
The question is how to make them the star of the meal 
and have fun doing it at the same time. I’ve spent years 
doing research—my lab being my kitchen, my mice 
being my family—to find cool ways to incorporate as 
much nutrition into our meals while adding tons of color and flavor too. Here are five tips—kid approved 
and adult applicable—for getting anyone onboard.
 +We eat with our eyes, so the more vibrant the plate, 
the more visually exciting the meal becomes. Instead of boiling broccoli, gently steam it to keep the nutrients 
and emerald green color intact. Make sure every meal 
includes colorful fruits and vegetables to brighten up 
the plate.
 +When foods have visual appeal, they’re instantly 
more exciting. Cutting foods into fun shapes can 
transform them. For easy appetizers, try using a melon 
baller for watermelon and put on skewers, or cutting 
cucumbers into sticks or coins. +For kids (and adults!) who resist vegetables, 
offer toasted sesame seeds in a shaker or a sauce to spoon on top. That way they can doll up their food 
themselves—making it more fun and interactive—
while adding vitamins at the same time.
 +Instead of getting stuck in a food rut, switching 
things up day to day can keep your diet, and your menus, nutritionally balanced and exciting at the same 
time. Try having fish on Monday, chicken or meat on 
Wednesday, and a few vegetarian meals in between. 
Variety really is the spice of life.
 +Get everyone involved in making every meal. By 
involving family and friends in the cooking process, 
picky eaters of all ages will get more excited about the 
foods they’ve made and are about to eat.24  :  LOW-SO GOODREBEL: LESSONS 
FROM JAMES DEAN 
AND LADY GAGA
Remember those yearbook polls where people got 
voted “best looking,” “most likely to rule the world,” 
or “most likely to be famous”? Well, I was voted 
“teacher’s pet.” No big surprise, for a total nerd/perfectionist.
But my high-school classmates got it all wrong. Over 
the years, I developed a total bad streak. I’m now a real mischief-maker. And when it comes to cooking, you won’t find me following anyone’s directions.
Most of the old low-sodium rules told you what not 
to do. Which is why people don’t want to give it a try. 
So you need to pull a James Dean or get all Gaga and 
break the rules. Low-sodium cooking requires coloring 
outside the lines, pushing against the conventional, and yes, rewriting those recipes. So take charge. 
When you act a little bad, your food will start to taste 
really good.
RELATE: TOP CHEFS AND 
OTHER SPECIAL DIETS
Most people believe that taking on a low-sodium diet 
means removing themselves from the greater culinary 
community and the big foodie table. Why? Because 
low-sodium food often gets painted as not gourmet, not chef caliber, and not worth serving to others.
But this is all sorts of wrong. And I’ll prove it.
First let’s look at shows like Top Chef and Iron Chef  
and pretty much any cooking competition on the Food Network. To win, the talented contestants must think 
out of the box to meet crazy food challenges (you 
can only use anchovies and chocolate!) or invent new 
versions of old favorites (shrimp pot pie!). Their level of creativity and inventiveness is thrilling to watch, and that is exactly what you’re about to do as a low-
sodium cook.
In making dishes without prepared foods, from 
scratch, and with less-salty ingredients, you’ll be 
forced to use more innovation, more imagination, 
and more personal flair. Just like the pros. This kind of creativity sets the good cooks apart from the 
great cooks. And means exciting, impressive meals. 
So, in fact, low-sodium cooking doesn’t make you a noncook; it makes you a culinary force to be reckoned with. Tom Colicchio, bring it on.
As for being part of a culinary community, let’s 
look to some other special diets, like raw food, vegan, gluten-free, and Paleo. Today, celebrities, 
food publications, and even the restaurant industry 
warmly welcome these restricted eating plans. People don’t see them as diets, but as a valuable part of the 
food world. Like low-sodium, they use creativity to 
overcome limitations. And they’ve added a whole new vocabulary of ingredient swaps to the culinary playbook. We wouldn’t have cauliflower pizza crust or 
zucchini noodles without them.
So why doesn’t low-sodium food get the same love? 
One difference, enthusiasm. People on gluten-free, 
vegan, vegetarian, and Paleo plans are proud, not 
apologetic. They put their creations front and center versus hiding them—at parties, at potlucks, and on 
the pages of magazines.TRaNSfOR m  :  25Which is all to say that if you see low-sodium as a  
great thing, others will too. Be proud of your low-
sodium creations. And remember to share your 
discoveries with others on special diets, because just like you:
 +Vegans love cheese substitutes and meatless hot dog 
swaps
 +Paleo fans can always use another grain-free bread idea
 +Plant-based eaters love vegetable-heavy entrees and noodle dishes
 +Whole 30 followers benefit from travel advice, dining tips, and 1-hour homemade bacon
 +Anyone who works in an office will appreciate tips on better desk lunches 
 +Everyone wants an excuse to eat more avocado
If it helps, go ahead and give your program a new 
name—like “eating real” or “unprocessed” or, of 
course, “low-so”—if that makes you feel more 
empowered. Remind yourself that your low-sodium ways are no different from the other healthful eating missions your peers take on. Own it. And when there’s 
a salty ingredient you need to replace, look to other 
special diets for confidence and ingredient-swapping inspiration. Then, channel your inner James Dean or 
Lady Gaga, give it a try, and create the next “kale  chip .”PHOEBE LAPINE  
TALKS SPECIAL-DIET TIPS
Everyone with any special diet shares the same 
challenge of eliminating ingredients while staying 
satisfied. Those who eat gluten-free, dairy-free, or  
anything-free can share strategies and tips. I tapped  
cookbook author, private chef, vegetarian, and 
gluten-free eater, Phoebe Lapine, to let you in on  
some secrets to eating well with special food needs.
see gains, not loss:
Let your food limitations be your biggest motivator 
to fall back in love with your kitchen. Allow the 
restriction to unlock your sense of creativity and 
adventure. And think of it as an opportunity to try 
new things instead of an ongoing struggle to forgo 
old favorites. If you’re open to it, you’ll discover 
many more new things that you love.
eat out, speak up:
When you eat out, don’t feel ashamed of being 
vocal. Communicate with hosts if you’re their 
dinner guest. Let them know in advance that you 
have an allergy or dietary restriction. Trust me, 
they’ll be more upset by the fact that you can’t 
eat their lasagna, than by the opportunity to make 
something that fits your needs.
love what you eat:
You eat with your eyes first, so take an extra five 
minutes to plate your food beautifully and garnish 
with fresh herbs. Turn meals into an activity. Make 
it fun. It sounds so silly, but even eating things with 
your fingers is a simple pleasure. So put dinner on 
a stick or in a taco. And reconnect with your food.26  :  LOW-SO GOODANDREW WILDER  
TALKS GOING UNPROCESSED
Cleanses, detoxes, and clean eating—people love the idea of pressing the restart button 
on their health. We all know friends and coworkers who proudly share their plans to cut 
the junk for days or weeks at a time. So how is that any different from going on a low-
sodium diet? It isn’t. For further proof and inspiration, I asked my friend Andrew Wilder, 
founder of EatingRules.com and creator of October Unprocessed, to share his story of 
eating clean, eating well, and actually (although unintentionally) eating less sodium, all 
while building a supportive community.
In October 2009, I had my “aha!” moment. I was 
walking in a parking lot on perfectly level ground, and 
felt like I was walking through molasses. My legs ached and my body simply didn’t want to move. I was thirty-
two years old, and it struck me that I really shouldn’t 
feel like that. I started thinking about how what I ate 
affected my body. And I was struck by a simple idea: 
What would happen if I went for an entire month without eating any processed foods?
This question would have been laughable just a few 
decades ago. But nowadays, it seems that almost every 
food comes with an ingredient list laden with extra sugar, fat, and salt. And preservatives. And flavorings. And 
artificial colors. After realizing just how much of that junk 
I was putting into my body, I decided it had to stop.
So I tried it, along with my friends Dana and Lindsey.  A  
month of no processed foods. It was revelatory. My expectations and my sense of taste were recalibrated. 
I started to identify individual ingredients in the foods 
I ate. I didn’t crave those salty snacks. I found myself 
often in the kitchen, excited to see what I could cook 
next. Above all,  I simply felt better.A few months later, I started my blog to help others 
find the same joy in real, unprocessed food. And when 
October came around again, I decided to see how 
many people might want to try a similar challenge. I set 
up a “pledge” page on my site, where people could sign 
their names and see the list of everyone else who had 
committed. I also invited other bloggers and experts to 
share guest posts throughout the month. By the end of the first official “October Unprocessed,” 415 brave 
people had signed the pledge on my site.
That was back in 2010. I’ve led the challenge each year 
since then, and it’s grown every time. In 2013, more 
than 15,500 people took part!
Nowadays, I eat unprocessed almost all of the time, 
but it still helps to take a month each year (especially 
before the gluttonous holiday season!) to hit the reset 
button and take a fresh look at what I’m eating. I hope 
you’ll consider joining me this coming October—or 
year-round!—and take control of your health and happiness by experiencing the joy of eating real, 
unprocessed food.TRaNSfOR m  :  27
REFOCUS: GAINS VERSUS LOSSES
For the visual learners, or for those who need a little more convincing, here’s a list of gains versus losses when 
taking on a low-sodium diet. Of course, there are the obvious points to make about overall health and wellness as 
well as time and cost. But here are some other perhaps less obvious takeaways.
gains
 +You will get more acquainted with your palate.
 +You will become more confident cooking, even when 
using leftovers.
 +You will become more knowledgeable about vegetables and proteins.
 +You will explore new spices and herbs.
 +You will form more meaningful relationships with the people who feed you.
 +You will become more adventurous and interesting.
 +You will throw better dinner parties.
 +You will inspire loved ones to spend more time in the kitchen.losses
 +You may have to spend less money on processed and prepared foods.
 +You may have to eat fewer chemicals, ingredients you cannot pronounce, and junk.
 +You may talk less to your pizza guy and more to your butcher.
 +You may see less of your doctor.
 +You may spend less time eating in front of the TV and more time at a beautifully set table.
 +You may use fewer recipes and more of your own creativity.
 +You will eat fewer processed foods and enjoy more of the process of making food.28  :  LOW-SO GOOD7-Day Taste Bud Reboot
Let’s get your tongue back on track and recalibrate it so that instead of needing the 
over-saltiness of processed ingredients, it starts detecting the nuanced flavors in real 
foods again. To do that, you will need to eat incredibly tasty, fresh food for seven days. 
I’m talking breakfast, lunch, dinner, and even snacks. I know, rough. But you can do it! And the meal plan on pages 31–32 will set you and your taste buds on the right course.
You will be making all your meals from scratch, which 
will feel overwhelming. But think of this as a food 
boot camp—there are big rewards for big effort. It’s 
only one week, and it’s more about switching up your routine than confining you to your stove forever. Pick a relatively calm seven days with a relatively clear 
calendar. And trust me, I’ve streamlined the recipes, 
the ingredients, and the heavy equipment so most of the hard work happens at the beginning. I’ve included 
a shopping list and prep guide to make every step 
efficient.
The reboot officially starts on Sunday afternoon with 
a roasted chicken and a few hours of heavy meal prep 
(all while that bird cooks). I chose Sunday because it is usually the emptiest day of my week and you’ll have to be home while that chicken cooks, but do what works 
for your schedule. Dinner always feeds two people; 
all breakfasts, lunches, and snacks are just for you. Add bulk or go rogue following the Additional Ways to 
Taste More with Your Taste Buds suggestions. Freeze 
any extras (see page  68) for some real, fast food later 
on. And remember this is not a dietary or medical meal 
plan, but a processed-food detox. So always consult 
your medical professionals to make sure you’re eating 
what’s right for you and your health.SHOPPING LIST
protein
 +1 dozen large eggs
 +One 3- to 4-lb [1.3- to 1.8-kg] fryer chicken
 +8 to 10 oz [225 to 285 g] salmon fillets
 +8 to 10 oz [225 to 285 g] tilapia fillets
vegetables
 +3 avocados
 +3 red bell peppers
 +1 large bunch of broccoli (with stem)
 +1 head butter lettuce
 +1 large butternut squash, pre-cut into cubes, or two 
10-oz [285-g] bags diced frozen butternut squash
 +4 carrots
 +1 large bunch of cauliflower (with leaves)
 +1 bunch cilantro
 +1 bag frozen corn, no salt added
 +1 large English cucumber
 +Garlic, pre-peeled
 +1 jalapeño chileTRaNSfOR m  :  29 +1 large bunch Lacinato kale (about 24 leaves)
 +1 bag spinach, pre-washed
 +2 sweet potatoes
 +1 yam
 +1 zucchini 
fruit
 +2 apples
 +2 bananas, ripe or overripe
 +2 limes
 +2 lemons
 +1 large mango or pineapple, or 1 lb [455 g] cubed fresh 
mango or pineapple 
 +2 nectarines
dairy
 +Coconut milk beverage, unsweetened
 +Two 6-oz [180-ml] containers soy or coconut yogurt 
 +One 6-oz [180-ml] container Greek yogurt
miscellaneous sundries
 +All-purpose flour
 +Black or pinto beans, no salt added
 +Chipotle chiles, dried
 +Coconut flakes, unsweetened
 +Corn tortillas
 +Pepitas or pumpkin seeds, unsalted 
 +Popcorn (microwave or kernels), unsalted
 +Quinoa or brown rice +Raisins
 +Rice crackers, sodium-free
 +Rice noodles or spaghetti, sodium-free
 +Spices for “everything spice” and jerk rub: caraway seeds, sesame seeds, celery seeds, mustard seeds, 
garlic powder, onion powder, black pepper, paprika, 
cayenne pepper, cumin, cloves, and cinnamon.
 +White chia seeds
 +Nori sheets, sodium-free
ADDITIONAL WAYS TO 
TASTE MORE WITH 
YOUR TASTE BUDS
This meal plan is based on what I would typically make 
and eat in a week. Once you’ve completed your seven 
days, you’ll most likely cook in a less pre-planned 
manner. For those nights, try the following ideas to give fresh food a boost of flavor.
For added bulk, add more vegetables by:
 +Roasting broccoli or cauliflower and tossing with 
harissa sauce
 +Grilling zucchini or asparagus and dressing with lemon juice, lemon zest, and fresh dill
 +Sautéing leafy greens in a little coconut milk and grated ginger
 +Steaming green beans and drizzling with olive oil and crushed nuts 
Go beyond white rice and noodles with:
 +Flavorful grains like farro, quinoa, or brown rice
 +Riced cauliflower or broccoli
 +Baked yams, sweet potatoes, or roasted eggplant topped with pasta sauce or pizza toppings30  :  LOW-SO GOODSwap out high-sodium sauces for:
 +Grilled fruit salsa
 +Roasted tomatoes
 +A blend of olive oil and herbs
At the table, sprinkle on:
 +Dukka spice or crushed nuts
 +Dried dill and salt-free garlic powder
 +Red chili pepper flakes
 +Freshly chopped parsley or chives 
SUNDAY PREP  
ORDER OF OPERATIONS
To get ready for this week’s reboot, today you’ll be 
prepping the ingredients for Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and Fruits (page 223), Harissa Hot 
Sauce (page 164), Avocado Green Goddess Dressing (page 168), Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and Edamame Salad (page 197), Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta” (page 196), 
Toasted Pepita Mix (page  176), and Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding (page 112). By following this list, you will make the most of your oven, your kitchen tools, and 
your time.
 1.  Steep the dried chipotle chile in hot water for 
30 minutes for the Harissa Hot Sauce.
 2.  Br oil the bell peppers for 15 to 20 minutes for the 
Harissa Hot Sauce.
 3.  Pr epare the Sunday Chicken with Roasted Roots 
and Fruits and put it in the oven.
 4.  Using a food processor, rice the cauliflower for 
the Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and Edamame Salad. Transfer 11/2 cups [630 g] to an airtight container 
for Monday’s lunch.
 5.  With 2 cups [840 g] of the riced cauliflower, 
make the Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta,” skipping 
the steaming and using whatever citrus juice you 
have on hand. 
 6.  T ake a clean-up break.
 7.  Using the food processor, rice the broccoli florets; 
then using the grater attachment for the food 
processor, shred the broccoli stem for the Cauli-
flower Rice, Pea, and Edamame Salad.
 8.  Using the grater attachment for the food proces -
sor, shred three of the  carrots.
 9.  Rinse out the food processor.
 10.  Use the food processor to make the Harissa Hot 
Sauce.
 11.  Rinse out the food processor.
 12.  Use the food processor to make the Avocado 
Green Goddess Dressing.
 13.  Cut the kale leaves into ribbons, chop the kale 
stems, and transfer to separate airtight contain-
ers or bags for storage. 
 14.  Mak e the Banana Chai–Chia Pudding.
 15.  Mak e the Toasted Pepita Mix.
 16.  T oast the coconut flakes.
 17.  T ake a breath and a bow, and eat your chicken 
dinner.TRaNSfOR m  :  31THE 7-DAY TASTE BUD REBOOT MEAL PLAN
SUNDAY 
dinner
Legs from the Sunday Chicken (shred the remaining 
chicken) over two-thirds of the Roasted Roots and 
Fruits (save other one-third for Monday’s lunch) 
mixed with a large handful of massaged or sautéed kale ribbons
MONDAY 
breakfast 
Soy or coconut yogurt with diced mango and toasted coconut
snack 
Toasted Pepita Mix with a small handful of popcorn
lunch 
Cauliflower rice with half of the leftover shredded chicken, leftover roots and fruits, Avocado Green 
Goddess Dressing, squeeze of lime or lemon
dinner 
Oven-broiled salmon (cook it all and save one portion 
for Tuesday’s lunch) glazed with Harissa Hot Sauce, 
served over a large handful of massaged or sautéed 
kale and a handful of spinach
make ahead 
Prep a cucumber baguette (see page 120) with half of the cucumber for Tuesday’s lunch
Cut remaining cucumber into snacking sticks
Mix up caraway seeds, sesame seeds, celery seeds, mustard seeds, garlic powder, onion powder, and black pepper for “everything spice” TUESDAY 
breakfast 
Banana Chai–Chia Pudding
snack 
Rice crackers with avocado and “everything spice”
lunch 
Cucumber baguette filled with Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta,” topped with leftover harissa salmon
dinner 
Roasted Pepper and Butternut Squash Soup (page  243)  
with the remaining shredded chicken (save one por-tion for Thursday’s dinner)
make ahead
Make Mini Hash Brown Quiches (page 208) for Thurs-day’s breakfast; cut two quiches into “croutons” for 
Wednesday’s lunch
Roast the sweet potato for Friday’s lunch
WEDNESDAY 
breakfast 
Soy or coconut yogurt with raisins, cinnamon, and toasted coconut
snack 
Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta” with DIY tortilla chips and cucumber sticks
lunch 
Green salad with a handful of spinach, a large handful of kale, Avocado Green Goddess Dressing, and quiche 
“croutons”32  :  LOW-SO GOODdinner
Spicy shrimp (see page 199) over rice noodles or spa-
ghetti with two handfuls of shredded carrots and a 
large handful of spinach, sautéed
make ahead
Cut 1 apple into 1-in- [2.5-cm-] thick rounds for “toast” 
for Thursday’s snack
Make Banana Chai–Chia Pudding (page 112) for Fri-day’s breakfast
THURSDAY 
breakfast
Two Mini Hash Brown Quiches, halved, with Greek 
yogurt and “everything spice”
snack 
Sliced apple “toast” with Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta”
lunch 
Shrimp “taco” wrapped in butter lettuce with Avocado Green Goddess Dressing, shredded carrots, shredded 
broccoli stems, diced mango, and corn
dinner 
Eggs poached in leftover Roasted Pepper and Butter-
nut Squash Soup, served over quinoa or brown rice 
(save half of the cooked grain for Saturday’s dinner)
make ahead 
Cut 1 apple into matchsticks; make nori roll filled with 
Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta,” apple matchsticks, and 
shredded broccoli stems for Friday’s snackFRIDAY 
breakfast 
Banana Chai–Chia Pudding
snack 
“Ricotta,” apple, and broccoli nori roll
lunch 
Sweet potato half loaded with sauteed spinach, black 
beans, diced avocado and jalapeño, and Greek yogurt
dinner 
Corn-Broccoli Burgers (page 201; halve recipe and save two burgers for Saturday’s breakfast), wrapped 
in butter lettuce with shredded carrot, Greek yogurt, 
and Harissa Hot Sauce
make ahead
Make a spread with the other half of the sweet potato and a dollop of Harissa Hot Sauce for Saturday’s lunch
SATURDAY 
breakfast 
Leftover Corn-Broccoli Burgers with sautéed spinach and a fried egg on top
snack 
Toasted Pepita Mix with a small handful of popcorn
lunch 
Open-face tortilla tostada with sweet potato spread, black beans, corn, and Greek yogurt
dinner 
Grilled tilapia with jerk rub (see page 256) with grilled mango and zucchini skewers, over leftover quinoa or 
brown rice, topped with cilantro and lemonTRaNSfOR m  :  33
Take the Leap: One Month 
to Low-So Success
Because this is a guide, let me take your hand and lead you into the world of low-
sodium living. With this workbook—full of weekly journaling, eating plans, and 
cooking-related activities—we’ll kick-start your new diet. Together. Step by step.  
Until your “low-so” life is oh so good.
Every week, you’ll use the suggested exercises to 
make small changes in your meals and habits. Noth-
ing too scary or drastic, just tiny shifts to help you 
keep the foods and activities you love in your life versus cutting them out. Ultimately, you’re designing a low-sodium routine that works for you. By the end, 
your taste buds may still crave salt or a slice of pizza, 
but you will see big changes in your pantry, your con-fidence, and your enthusiasm—you will have created 
the foundation for many good low-so things to come. 
Feel free to begin these exercises as you read this book or once you’ve finished it. Remember you can always flip to a new section if you hit a high-sodium stum-
bling block. And don’t be afraid to recruit a friend (or 
a whole gang of pals!) to refresh eating habits along with you—a surplus of support, accountability, and 
creative thinking never hurt. So when you are ready, 
let’s jump in and do this.A Word from Stephanie 
Weaver, Recent Low-So 
Convert and Founder of 
RecipeRenovator.com
Research and my experience have shown that our 
taste buds adapt to low-sodium diets in two to three 
months, depending on the level of sodium that was 
eaten at the start. If you have been on a high-sodium diet full of processed foods, it may take you longer to adjust to this new way of eating. I tried to do it 
overnight, which I don’t recommend. And taking it 
step by step as Jessica suggests will make it far easier.
But don’t get discouraged if food doesn’t taste quite 
as great for a few weeks. There will be a moment 
down the road when you bite into an organic cherry 
tomato and suddenly, pow! It tastes like the most 
incredible candy. That’s when you’ll know that your taste buds have healed and that low-sodium foods will 
start to taste better to you than in the past.34  :  LOW-SO GOOD
WEEK 1
This week is about prep work and gathering every-
thing you need to make your low-sodium switch as 
easy and flavorful as possible.
mental game
Before you start eliminating sodium, you must under-
stand where it already exists in your diet. Spend 
at least three days recording everything you eat, 
including drinks and the amount of table salt you use (measure it!). Then calculate the sodium content in the ingredients, recipes, and prepared meals you con-
sumed by using the USDA National Nutrient Database 
(ndb.nal.usda.gov), the USDA SuperTracker (super  
tracker.usda.gov), and sites like MyFitnessPal  
.com (myfitnesspal.com/recipe/calculator) and apps  
like Sodium Tracker. Make note of the ingredients or meals that surprised you most in terms of their sodium content, like:
 +Did you eat more sodium for breakfast than expected?
 +Was there an ingredient you eat daily that was higher 
in sodium than you thought?
 +Or, on the flip side, were there products and meals that were surprisingly low in sodium?
routine switch
Now let’s focus on the social side of eating, because 
when we eat out and with others, we tend to choose 
higher-sodium options and give in to high-sodium 
food traps. But don’t worry, you don’t need to cut out these outings. Just be aware of how often they occur on your social calendar and how they add to 
your weekly sodium intake. Then you’ll be prepared 
to make smart sodium choices. Spend one weekend observing your social eating habits and make note of: +How often did you eat out?
 +What was the sodium content of your meals outside 
of the house (including drinks)?
 +Were there any lower-sodium options available?
take note
Finally, let’s face your low-sodium “fears” head-on. 
Take a moment to think about what scares you most 
about a low-sodium diet and what you believe will be 
your biggest challenges, like:
 +How to eat low-sodium while at work?
 +How to order at your favorite restaurant?
 +How to make low-sodium dinners during a busy week?
Then list proposed solutions, because the best way to overcome an obstacle is with a plan.
extra-credit activities
Give yourself a leg up on this low-sodium journey by carrying out the following tasks:
 +Clear the shelves and refrigerator of high-sodium 
items and packaged goods—get rid of temptation.
 +Head to the grocery store for a research trip to familiarize yourself with what’s available. Take your 
time and read every label.
 +Curl up with your computer, some favorite cook -
books, and food magazines and get inspired. Pick  
five recipes that excite you, even if they contain  
high-sodium ingredients. File them away—we’ll get  
to those later.
WEEK 2
This week, we’ll ease you into your low-sodium diet 
with a few changes at a time. But when it comes to 
introducing your palate to new flavors, we’re going TRaNSfOR m  :  35
to dive right in. Get ready to go on a taste adventure, 
and to use your new discoveries to help replace high-
sodium favorites in your daily routine.
mental game
Start transforming those taste buds with a test-drive. 
This week, make one meal each day featuring a vegetable 
or spice you’ve never used before. Explore uncharted 
food  territory , and then write down:
 +Which new flavors and textures did you enjoy?
 +What meal or meals did you like best and why?
 +Were there dishes where you still craved salt? If you 
answer yes, note what you would try next time to 
boost the taste of the dish (other than salt).
routine switch
This week, overcome a big sodium challenge—work-
day lunch. Whether you go out for lunch and order 
something lower in sodium or bring meals with you to 
the office, make a point to avoid high-sodium choices. Make note of the following:
 +Your favorite low-sodium lunch creations.
 +The meals that felt the most difficult to make or were 
the most unsatisfying.
 +How you will avoid unsuccessful lunches next time.
 +Your ideas for making work lunches easier, tastier, and less time-consuming.
take note
At least one day this week, write down everything 
you eat. Tally up the sodium amounts. See where you 
made the greatest changes and where high-sodium 
food still poses a challenge. Write down the answers to the following questions:
 +How do you plan to avoid high sodium next week? +What are you enjoying about your low-sodium diet?
 +What do you miss most about your old diet?
 +What are your own ideas to help fill those lifestyle and 
food gaps?
extra-credit activities
Do some prep work. Spend Sunday filling your fridge 
with vegetables, proteins, grains, and leafy greens to 
use for lunches and dinners all week long. Does this 
make your low-sodium meals easier and tastier?
Explore more. Take one simple recipe (tacos, rice 
bowls, pasta, or a frittata) and make it every night 
that week, using different ingredients and spices to transform the dish. Focus on discovering new flavor combinations and cuisines.
Redo a recipe. Do you crave Grandma’s famous 
casserole or a recipe from one of your favorite cook-books? Whatever the dish, try giving it a low-sodium  
makeover of your own by substituting low-sodium ingredients and spices.
WEEK 3
Have you noticed that the challenges are becoming less daunting and you’re starting to feel like a low-so 
pro? This week, we’ll refine all those low-sodium skills 
you’re mastering and continue to practice overcoming high-sodium obstacles with our newfound tools: Creativity and confidence.
mental game
If you miss snacking and midday salty treats, don’t just reach for the bag of potato chips. Make a list 
of low-sodium snacking swaps. Use resources like 
Pinterest, kid-focused cookbooks and blogs (school 36  :  LOW-SO GOODlunches are full of great ideas!), and other special-diet 
sites for inspiration. Prepare some new low-sodium 
snacks for your week ahead. Maybe even take a few 
pictures of your favorite bites and share them on Pin-terest. Now who’s the expert?!
routine switch
If eating outside your home seems scary, practice makes perfect. Plan a dinner out with friends. Use your 
low-sodium dining tools (see page  100) to prepare for 
a smooth meal. Then write down your thoughts about the experience:
 +What surprised you most—the food, the service, your 
friends’ reactions?
 +What would you do differently next time?
 +What restaurant do you want to try next?
take note
One day this week, write down everything you ate 
and, once again, tally up those sodium amounts. See 
where you made the greatest changes and which high-  
sodium foods still pose a challenge.
extra-credit activities
Did you discover a great low-sodium product on the 
Internet and wish it was in your local market? This 
week, meet with a store manager and ask if they can 
carry the product for you. Do you miss going to your favorite local spot, like a pizza joint or sandwich shop? Make a date with the restaurant manager and ask what 
kind of deal you might be able to work out so you can 
continue to be a loyal customer and eat low-sodium. 
You never know what’s possible if you don’t ask. And 
you might end up with a personalized pizza or sub on 
the menu.WEEK 4
Do you realize you’ve reached the last week of your low-sodium switch? All the hard work of the past three 
weeks will truly make the low-sodium days, weeks, 
months, and years ahead easier, tastier, and better than you could have ever imagined. Let’s celebrate.
mental game
Even though your taste buds may still be adjusting, hopefully you have realized that your life need not 
be any less flavorful or fabulous than before. You’ve 
become an expert of sorts, not only on sodium but on cooking real, good food, too. So pat yourself on the back and brag a little bit about your accomplishments 
this month:
 +What was the most difficult cooking skill you 
attempted (and mastered)?
 +What was the most terrifying ingredient you bravely used (and ate)?
 +What was the best low-sodium dish you ate or cooked (and devoured)?
routine switch
Low-sodium food need not be consumed alone. 
Remember, we’re talking fresh, flavor-forward food 
that anyone would enjoy. So it’s time to invite friends, 
coworkers, and loved ones to taste your delicious low-sodium food creations. And this week, whether it is a work lunch or a small dinner party, take the leap 
and host your first low-so get-together. You cook, they 
eat, everyone wins.TRaNSfOR m  :  37
take note
When you share your low-sodium meals with your 
friends, pay attention to their reactions. Sure, they 
may miss the salt. But they may also notice the inter-
esting textures, the beautiful colors, and unfamiliar spices you used. Write down their feedback and use it to boost flavor the next time around as well as to 
boost your confidence.
extra-credit activities
One of the easiest ways to eat well away from your 
home is by teaching your friends and loved ones how 
to cook low-sodium, too. And you can kick-start their 
low-sodium adventures with a fun, themed potluck, like an Iron Chef No-Salt Battle or an off-season Thanksgiving dinner. Or by using any of the recipes in 
this book. Assign guests to different parts of the meal 
and then give them confidence by educating them and 
encouraging their creativity. Help them understand 
what to avoid and, most important, which low-  
sodium substitutes and ingredients they can use. Be sure to provide favorite low-sodium websites, resources, and your own tips. Then let everyone 
gather around your table and dig in. Not only will you 
find joy in making good food for those you love, but your crew of family and friends will now have all the information, skills, and recipes they need to provide 
low-sodium food for you, too.2
Learn
 
Becoming an ExpertLea RN  :  39earning to ride a bike didn’t happen 
overnight. First, you had to scoot 
around on a little three-wheeler and propel 
yourself forward with your feet. Eventu-  
ally, you got the hang of the pedals. And finally, you found enough confidence to lose 
a wheel and your parents’ helping hands, and take off on your own. You found your balance, charted your own course, and learned new 
tricks like popping wheelies and climbing 
steep hills.
Learning to cook (and cook low-sodium) is just 
like riding a bike. It doesn’t happen overnight 
and you’ll need support and guidance in the beginning. But very quickly, you find your confidence, your balance, and your sense of adventure. And just like biking, there are 
always new things to learn and new tricks to 
add to your repertoire.
So remember, when that roasted chicken falls 
on the floor, pick yourself, and that chicken, 
up and try again. Or, if you are like my grand-
mother, wipe it off and serve it anyway. Just  
like biking, the more you cook—and eat out 
and eat with others—the better and more com -
fortable you will get at it. Living low-sodium is a skill that only improves with practice and time. So give yourself plenty of both.L40  :  LOW-SO GOODWhere to Start: Fears 
and Fundamentals
For many people, the biggest challenge of low-sodium cooking is not the sodium, but 
the cooking itself. To new cooks, the kitchen feels like a pretty scary place with a lot 
of potential for disaster, from overdone meat to messes. So before we launch into 
cooking lessons, let’s face those kitchen fears and kitchen basics to discover just how forgiving food preparation can be. 
BIG FEARS
Today, not much scares me when it comes to cooking. 
I have overcome my fear of frying. I am tackling my 
anxieties about baking, one pie crust at a time. And 
I’m always looking for a challenge to convert culinary panic to pluck. Sometimes, I forget what it feels like when cooking is brand new or unfamiliar. Thanks to 
Facebook, though, I asked one question—“What scares 
you?”—and received more than forty answers; all solvable with simple solutions. So let’s tackle the most 
common intimidating issues right now, and officially 
break that barrier between you and your stove.
cleanup
Minimize kitchen cleanup by doing the dishes while you cook. When waiting for something to roast or 
water to boil, use that time to wipe and wash. Use 
nonchemical cleaners so you do not contaminate your food. And if you’re really “cleanup phobic,” start with one-pot recipes. That way you can ease into your 
cook-and-clean routine.smelly ingredients
If the lingering smell of fish bothers you, simply open 
a window or turn on the stove-top fan while cooking 
to diffuse the scent. Or arm yourself with a spray 
bottle of citrus or lavender water to spritz while you cook and when the meal is done.
undercooking and overcooking 
ingredients
First of all, use the right-size pot or pan. Too small and 
you’ll crowd your ingredients, meaning some of that 
pasta or broccoli or chicken will end up underdone or 
limp. Second, use cooking thermometers so you can get correct finishing temperatures (like medium-rare, medium, well-done) for different proteins. And third, 
check the texture and temperatures of ingredients near 
the end of the allotted cooking time. That way, you can stop or add time according to the doneness you desire.
timing multiple dishes
If you decide to tackle a meal that includes side dishes, come up with a game plan before you cook. 
That may mean chopping and measuring ingredients 
a day before, or cooking part of the dish ahead of time. Then, when it is go time, set several timers and label Lea RN  :  41each with the name of the dish it is timing. That way, 
you can make the salad while you roast the lamb, all 
without forgetting about (and burning) the quinoa.
random ingredients
If a recipe calls for a special trip to a special store or 
includes something you’ve never heard of, use the 
Internet to figure out where to buy that item and how 
to use it. But if this still feels like too much effort, skip that recipe altogether, or turn it into a weekend adventure and tackle it with friends, or come up with 
your own substitutes for the hard-to-find ingredients.
missing ingredients
You go shopping. You get home. You forgot the onion. 
Sound familiar? Do not let this stop you from cooking a 
recipe. When you do not have something in an ingredi -
ent list, don’t panic. Your meal will be okay without it. 
Ask yourself: What else do I have on hand that would work as a substitute? What’s hiding in the freezer that 
might save the day? Remember: This is not a moment 
for a breakdown, but a moment to get creative.
BASIC SAFETY AND 
EFFICIENCY RULES
Now that you no longer fear the kitchen, let’s take a 
moment to go over some basic pointers for keeping 
cooking safe and efficient.
Always wash your hands before you start cooking 
and anytime you’ve touched raw meat, eggs, or fish.  
That way you’ll keep your food germ- and bacteria-free. Also wash cutting boards and other tools, bowls, and surfaces, too, after use, so there’s no cross-contamination. And, if you clean as you go, be sure to 
use nonchemical products. I know of no recipe that 
calls for bleach in the ingredient list.Before you begin a recipe, take the time to read it 
all the way through, start to finish. That way you’ll know to keep the dry and wet ingredients separated, to put the basil in at the end, and to soak those beans 
a day ahead. If you have time to prep some ingredients 
before you start, even better. Good prep means quicker cooking and more successful meals.
Never toss dirty knives or other sharp objects in 
the sink. Even if you think you’ll remember that you put them there, you’re risking a nasty cut. To avoid 
accidents, set aside a tall cup or bowl where you can 
safely put your dirty knives, blade down, while you finish making the meal. Then clean them when you’re done and at full attention.
Always have a pen on hand. Because of your special diet 
or even your palate, you’ll adjust many recipes, adding a spice here or a seasonal ingredient there. Successful 
alterations can be easily forgotten, so make sure to note 
your additions or changes right on the recipe pages.
Always take your time; don’t rush. Cooking a meal 
from scratch can be a really relaxing and rewarding 
experience. Even on the busiest nights, this time in the kitchen can generally be an opportunity to 
unwind. So enjoy yourself. If you need help getting 
Zen, squeeze a little lemon juice into a glass of water (the aroma will calm you), turn on some music, and go to your culinary happy place.
Messes happen. Even with the best intentions, 
disasters strike. It’s important to have a broom and dust pan, mini vacuum, nontoxic cleaners, and a fire 
extinguisher handy, just in case. If you’re prepared 
for the worst—dramatic quinoa spills, dropped Thanksgiving turkeys, and the “great pine nut fire of 
2010”—cleanup won’t seem that bad.42  :  LOW-SO GOODAVOIDING COMMON 
MISTAKES
Because messes, spills, and maybe a few flames are 
unavoidable when you experiment in the kitchen, we 
should spend a minute to chat about common cooking 
mistakes and ways to prevent them, beyond the five-second rule but before calling the fire department. So here’s my list of common kitchen disasters (that I may 
or may not have committed) and how to avoid them.
blenders, food processors, and 
missing tops
Whether you’ve had too little coffee or you’ve got 
too many misplaced parts, remember that a topless 
blender or food processor means a coating of “natural 
paint” on the walls, floor, ceiling, and you. So take the time to put on the top and hold it down. If you’re in a pinch, use a tight-fitting kitchen towel to keep all the 
ingredients inside. If you’re blending something hot, 
like a soup, make sure to let it cool a bit before putting it in the blender. If not, you’ll have a literal hot mess.
cookies, cakes, and unfollowed 
directions
If you’re like me, you don’t always have all the right 
ingredients on hand, which can be a big problem when 
it comes to baking. So for those times when you throw 
caution to the wind and use orange juice in place of eggs, don’t be surprised that your cookies and choc-olate cakes don’t rise or look like they are supposed 
to. But don’t worry either. When baking fails strike, 
simply rename the recipe (cookies are now cookie crumbs) and turn those deconstructed baked goods 
into an ice-cream topping, a pie crust, a parfait, or a 
sweet mix-in for an afternoon yogurt snack.dishes and ovens; foil and 
microwaves
Not all dishes are ovenproof, and not all containers 
can be safely used in the microwave. It’s important 
to check that your chosen vessel can be used in your 
chosen cooking appliance. Know which items should never go in a microwave, such as metal (twist ties, stainless steel, aluminum foil), plastic, Styrofoam, 
and takeout containers.
fish en papillote and 
unpleasant tastes
I learned this lesson the hard way: Aluminum foil + 
acid = inedible. So when making fish en papillote, use 
parchment paper (but don’t broil it). Or, if using foil, 
be sure to omit acidic ingredients like vinegar, white wine, tomatoes, and citrus.
parchment paper and oven 
temperature
Only you can prevent oven fires. The easiest way 
to do that is to make sure to keep flammable items 
and ingredients far away from the broiler heat coil, 
especially parchment paper (which can be used only at oven temperatures below 425°F [220°C]). If you do decide to roast nuts in the oven, watch them closely; 
or go the safest route and toast them in a dry, hot pan 
on the stove top.
potatoes and dish disposal
There are a few items you should never put down your disposal: Glass, oil or grease, expandable foods (like 
rice and pasta), and, yes, potatoes. Whether shred-
ded, peeled, or mashed, potatoes will turn into glue, and the disposal blades will stop working. Meaning you will need to call a repairman on Thanksgiving Day. 
Toss potatoes or peels on the compost pile instead.Lea RN  :  43Building Your Library
What’s wonderful about cooking is that you don’t need to go to culinary school to 
learn how to do it. Today, with the many available cookbooks (and now television and 
the Internet and magazines), you can learn everything you need to know, from the 
basics to fancy desserts, on your own time, in your own kitchen.
But where do you start? It probably makes sense to 
start with the basics, such as knife skills, steaming 
rice, and sautéing vegetables. But make sure you 
also throw in specialty subjects that excite you. Do you love Vietnamese food? Pick up a few cookbooks on Vietnamese cuisine. Are you interested in sauces? 
Start with a primer on everything from hollandaise 
to beurre blanc. Do you have a favorite restaurant you’ve visited or always wanted to visit? Many of them 
have their own cookbooks now, which means you can 
re-create famous dishes at home.
Whatever the dish, the cuisine, or the specialty, 
you’ll learn skills with every recipe you try—the most 
important one being confidence. And you’ll quickly collect recipes for favorite dishes, weekly standards, and even your own recipe makeovers that get passed 
on to family and friends.
To get you started on your low-so education, here are 
some suggestions for books, magazines, TV shows, 
and Internet-based cooking resources that provide 
the instruction you need to do everything from boiling eggs to making elegant pastries.ON THE SHELF
Cookbooks have taken over prime real estate in my home. I read cookbooks in bed as a way to unwind. 
I’ve been known to take them on vacation, even if I 
have no plans to cook. If you came over, you’d find that the cookbooks on my shelves range from classics to low-sodium-specific to specialty cuisines. Which 
is all to say that, just because you need to limit the 
salt in your meals, doesn’t mean you have to limit the inspiration on your shelves (and counter and bedside 
table). Every cookbook will teach you something, even 
if you have to adjust recipes. So arm yourself with texts that teach you the basics as well as those that make your mouth water.
classics and cooking skills
It’s useful to have a few books on hand that act as ref-erence guides. With the books by Mark Bittman and 
Cook’s Illustrated magazine, I learned how to poach 
eggs, chiffonade basil, and bake fish en papillote. When you’re ready to start making up recipes of your own, these more instructional books help you do just 
that. Once you understand the basic idea behind a 
dish, you can go from there.44  :  LOW-SO GOODlow-sodium guides
Some books help you to become an expert in losing 
the salt in recipes and replacing it with lots of flavor. 
From baking to making soy sauce substitutes, these 
texts show you how to surpass any sodium challenge and make really tantalizing meals. Look for books by the low-sodium forefathers, Donald A. Gazzaniga 
and Dick Logue; Bobbie Mostyn’s Pocket Guide to 
Low Sodium Foods; anything by the American Heart 
Association; and, of course, Sodium Girl’s Limitless 
Low-Sodium Cookbook.
special-diet inspiration
Remember, low-sodium diets have a lot in common with other special diets. Vegetarian, vegan, Paleo, raw, 
and gluten-free guides will give you lots of ideas for 
exciting ingredient substitutions.
world cuisines and other 
specialty subjects
Get your cooking passport ready and maybe grab a 
butcher’s knife. Whether you want to make dim sum 
dumplings, use a sous vide, or cut up a whole hog, 
books are available that will teach you how to do that and much more. 
ON TV
I have to take a moment to thank television, because that’s where I truly began my culinary career. Watching 
cooking shows and cooking competitions taught me 
that it was okay to play with food and ingredients. By seeing professional, celebrity chefs put their own twists on traditional dishes, I knew I could have the same sense of fun and creativity in my kitchen. 
cooking competitions
Want to learn more about flavor combinations and unfamiliar ingredients? Then check out shows like 
Chopped, Iron Chef, Top Chef, and pretty much any 
of the cooking competitions on television these days. By watching chef-testants getting judged on skills, knowledge, and creativity, you’ll pick up a lot of tips 
on flavors, plating, and how to avoid major cooking 
mistakes. 
cooking shows
For visual learners who want step-by-step instruc-tions, cooking shows are a perfect fit. Even if hosts use 
ingredients that you must avoid, it is all about inspi-ration and actually seeing someone brown meat in a 
pan or whisk eggs. By watching other people put foods 
together with ease, you’ll feel more confident when it’s 
just you, the written instructions, and your kitchen.
ON THE WEB
These days, the Internet offers boundless information and learning opportunities, from recipes to video 
tutorials to actual online cooking schools. Whether 
you need to Google a term or ingredient or just watch someone make crêpes, you can find it online. Like with the cookbooks on your shelf, don’t limit the kinds of 
recipe sites and blogs you visit. Even salty resources 
are good for learning purposes, and you can then adjust the information as necessary. Lea RN  :  45Building Your Skills
Some people think that because you eat a low-sodium diet, you can’t take cooking 
classes. Well that’s just plain silly. Even if you can’t eat the final product, you can learn 
a lot from going through the paces. And, food experiences don’t have to be limited to 
dinners out or taking classes. Even by spending time at the farmers’ market or going fishing, you’ll become more knowledgeable and passionate about the food you eat, 
which is a secret weapon when it comes to cooking. Meals made with love always 
taste better. Plus, you can often pick up the best cooking tips from the farmers and fishermen themselves. So take part in cooking classes, farm tours, and other food 
adventures, and build some skills beyond the stove.
CHEAT SHEET: HOW TO 
CUT STRANGE FRUITS 
AND VEGETABLES
To sharpen your skills, let’s get you started with some 
odd-shaped fruit and vegetable prep. Some fresh items 
can seem really daunting at first sight—like butter -
nut squash, corn on the cob, jicama, watermelon—  
especially when a recipe simply calls for cubes or ker-
nels without explaining how to get them. Once you’ve 
tackled these unwieldy-looking foods, no shape, size, or husks will scare you again. 
butternut squash
Start by cutting off both ends of the squash with a large, heavy, sharp knife. Then use the knife to cut it 
in half, separating the neck from the body. Use a sharp 
peeler to take off the skin, working around the curves. Slice the neck (with no seeds) into disks. If there’s a spongy core in parts, just scoop it out with a spoon. 
Then cut into cubes. For the seedy body, cut it in half 
and then scoop out the seeds with a spoon. Cut the halves into half-moon shapes and then cube. If you’re using only part of the squash, store leftovers in air-tight bags in the freezer for the next time you need 
recipe-ready squash.
corn kernels
Remove the husk (the green leaves) and the silk (the 
silky threads). Place the corncob on its side on a cut-
ting board. While holding the stem, use a sharp knife 
(directed away from you) to slice the kernels off one side, getting as close to the core as possible. Rotate the cob a small turn and cut kernels off another side. 
Continue cutting and rotating until you’ve sliced off 
all the kernels. And don’t forget to use the remaining cob. You can rub it on a grater to capture the corn milk 
or save it to toss in your next soup or stew for a sweet, 
milky flavor. If you don’t have time to do that today, put the cob in an airtight bag in the freezer and do it later.46  :  LOW-SO GOODjicama
Rinse the jicama bulb, then peel. You then want to 
use the peeler for a second spin around the bulb to 
totally remove the fibrous top layer. Next, use a sharp 
or serrated knife to cut off both knobby ends. Set the jicama on one of the flat sides. Slice it in half, top to bottom, and set aside one half. Lay the other half on 
its wide side and cut it into half-ovals 
1/2 to 1 in [12  mm  
to 2.5  cm] thick. Then stack a few of those ovals on top 
of each other and cut the jicama into fries or match-
sticks or cubes, depending on how you plan to use it. 
Repeat with the other jicama half.
watermelon
Wash the outside of the melon. Set the watermelon on 
a cutting board that will catch the juice, if you have 
one. Otherwise, have some paper towels ready to soak 
up the excess juice. Use a large, sharp knife to cut both 
ends off the melon and then, while on its side, cut the 
melon in half. Lay one half aside. Lay the other half 
on its center-cut side and use the knife to trim off the 
rind, leaving only the red flesh. Cut the fruit into any shape you like, cubes or wedges. Transfer the melon to an airtight container. Repeat with the other water-
melon half. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1  week .
other oddly shaped produce
Anytime you want or need to learn how to cut a partic-ular ingredient, be it fennel bulbs or whole ducks, hit 
the Internet. Whether you learn best via the written 
word, instructional videos, or adorable infographics, there’s a variety of demos that will teach you how to do almost anything. And when you need a refresher, 
you can reread or rewatch anytime.Lea RN  :  47STEPHANIE HUA  
TALKS SMART COOKING
Although I never went to cooking school, as I found myself diving deeper into the 
world of food, I started making friends with people who did put in time at real culinary 
institutions. So I tapped my friend Stephanie Hua, founder of LickMySpoon.com and 
graduate of the San Francisco Cooking School, to give us a quick lesson in smart cooking.
I’ve picked up some great tips from watching great 
cooks work, voraciously consuming food media, and 
training at the San Francisco Cooking School. Here are 
a few tips on how to cook smarter and faster.
batch motions
In cooking school, one of the first things we learned was the importance of working efficiently. You’ll work faster 
if you batch together similar motions. For example, if 
you need to cut up several onions, don’t peel and slice 
each onion one at a time. Instead, peel all the onions at 
once, and then cut them all at once, without having to 
put down your knife. The work will go twice as fast.
taste as you cook
Learn to taste and season throughout different stages 
of preparing a dish rather than just at the end. This 
allows you to build layers of flavor as the different 
ingredients in the dish come together, resulting in 
a more complex and cohesive end product. Also, if 
you’re constantly tasting, you can troubleshoot a 
problem before it’s too late.
keep your knives sharp
A sharp knife will make prepping so much easier, 
and safer! A dull knife will not only make you exert 
unnecessary energy, it will actually bruise vegetables 
or delicate herbs because you are crushing cell walls 
rather than slicing through them. Test your blade on a tomato. You should be able to slice through cleanly with minimal effort and pressure. If you are smashing 
it, it’s time to sharpen that knife.
peel in both directions
Most vegetable peelers have a double edge on the blade, which means it can actually peel forward and 
backward! Try it! You just peeled that carrot twice as 
fast. You’re welcome.
the maillard reaction
Let’s get nerdy. The Maillard reaction is chef-speak for the chemical reaction that occurs when you 
brown food—think seared steak or that golden crust 
on baked bread. As you expose the food to heat, the 
amino acids react with the sugars, and you end up 
with a golden brown deliciousness. So, the lesson 
here? Roast, caramelize, and sear away! It’s amazing 
the flavors you can coax out by roasting some veggies. Apply this principle to nuts and seeds, too. Toasting 
them will bring out aromas and flavors that would 
otherwise remain dormant.
reductions pack a punch
When you reduce a liquid down, you essentially evaporate off the water and concentrate the flavor. Try 
adding reduced stocks, vegetable juices, or fruit juices 
to bring big flavor to your dish.48  :  LOW-SO GOODTHE RD AND ME—  
BUILDING A GOOD RELATIONSHIP WITH YOUR DIETITIAN
You’ve set a time to meet with a registered dietitian (RD) to discuss your low-sodium 
plan. To make sure that time is well spent, four wonderful dietitians from Northwest 
Kidney Centers—Erin McCormick, Nikki Gepner, Katy Wilkens, and Beth Shanaman—
have generously shared their tips on getting the most from your appointment.
Be Fearless: The best relationships, including the 
one with your RD, are built on honesty. But Shanaman 
says many people will withhold information for fear of 
being judged for bad habits. Just remember, your RD 
wants to help you, not scold you. So release the fear 
and tell the truth.
Take Note: Both McCormick and Gepner say that 
keeping a food journal prior to your visit will greatly increase the RD’s ability to tailor advice to your specific 
needs, tastes, budget, and routines. Before your first 
visit, Gepner suggests keeping a food journal for at  
least three days, including a workweek day and a weekend, and don’t forget beverages (hidden sodium 
traps!). Jot down any questions you have—the more 
information you bring in, the more you will learn.
Include Your Team: McCormick says that if someone 
helps you cook or do the food prep and shopping, be sure to bring them along to your appointment. That 
way, everyone will be informed. The more support you 
have, the easier making adjustments will be.
Good Ear: Gepner says that a good RD should 
be an excellent listener. By asking questions and 
meeting often, you will find that your RD offers more 
personalized suggestions that fit into your life, not get 
in the way of it. A successful low-sodium plan will be 
one that gels with your priorities and your goals.Small Steps, Big Changes: When facing all the adjustments required of a low-sodium life, some 
people feel overwhelmed instead of enthusiastic. So 
McCormick says to “set small achievable goals and 
celebrate every success.”
Turn the Table: Shanaman says to constantly ask 
people what they eat, “in the waiting room, at the gym, 
at the grocery store.” That includes your RD, too! You never know what tips you’ll pick up or what new foods 
you’ll discover.
You’re the Boss: Wilkens says that an RD’s job is to 
“set the table with healthful choices.” Then it’s up  
to you (the patient) to choose which ideas fit best for your life and put them into practice. Above all, if you 
ever feel like your RD does not understand you or your 
needs, Wilkens says it’s worth it to look for another 
RD. Because you’re the boss, and you’re in charge of picking a team to work for and with you.Lea RN  :  49
Building a Low-Sodium Plan
Now that you’re learning how to cook, it’s important to learn how to eat. That means 
creating your own personalized low-sodium plan. Working with your doctor and 
dietitian, first figure out how much sodium (and other essential nutrients) you should 
eat every day for your body and health needs. Then spend a few days tracking your sodium intake to discover where sodium sneaks into your meals, or use your notes 
from the One Month to Low-So Success exercises on page 33. Remember, most sodium 
doesn’t come from just that saltshaker.
Once you identify the foods you should eat less of or 
avoid, focus on the foods you can enjoy. Curb feelings 
of loss by making a game plan. Fill your refrigerator, 
cupboards, and work cubicle with products, spices, and snacks you can and want to eat. And for every favorite item you have to ditch (morning bagel), come 
up with a satisfying, low-sodium alternative (toasted 
tortilla with homemade guacamole).With these steps and the help of your health-care team, you’ll figure out the right guidelines for your 
body, your needs, and your lifestyle. And going 
low-sodium will start to feel like second nature, trans-forming “burden” to “no big thing.”
Continued Education
Talk, share, and read constantly, because the learning never ends. You’ll master Moroccan 
cuisine, only to then begin a journey into homemade nut butters, pickles, and bread. You’ll 
think you have found your ultimate BFF spice, only to find another that steals your heart. 
Even after twelve years of passionate, self-led cooking adventures, there are plenty of skills and subjects I have yet to master. So get ready for a lifelong journey of education.
For your low-sodium diet specifically, this continued 
education is essential. Everybody and every body is 
different, and so it’s important to constantly consult 
with your health-care providers to make sure your diet continues to fit your needs through the many years ahead of you. Nutritional labels, dietary guidelines, and 
your own medical condition may change over time, and 
therefore your diet needs may change and shift, too.3
Prep
Setting Up Your Kitchen and PantryPReP  :  51
PReP  :  51
t’s totally normal to be afraid of the 
kitchen. There are hot stoves, too many 
different types of pots and pans, and shelves 
full of canned ingredients that you will no 
longer use. The unfamiliarity of this space 
may cause you panic. It may keep you from 
trying a recipe. And worst of all, it may drive you to another night of take-out. 
But good food starts in the kitchen. So before 
we even talk about recipes or heating up that stove, let’s outfit your space with everything you need to feel comfortable and confident, 
and to actually cook great tasting low-so 
food. First you need to stock the pantry, the fridge, your spice rack, and your counter with all the tools (edible and mechanical) that make cooking a pleasant experience. 
With the huge array of options, though, this 
may feel like a daunting task. So we’ll cover the basics of what’s available and give you the information you need to make the right choices for you and your space.
Once you’ve gathered your tools, the next step 
is using them to their full potential. Because what’s the point of buying a food processor or a jar of cloves if you hardly ever take them off 
the shelf? That means storing food properly, 
stretching spices and equipment beyond their most basic tasks, and stocking the kitchen with items you need to get you through any emergency—whether a dry chicken or an earthquake. In the end, you’ll replace your fears with everything you need for a fully 
functioning kitchen. And you’ll be prepped 
and ready to tackle the low-so adventures 
ahead.
Above all, whether you live in a tiny studio 
apartment with a countertop hot plate or 
in a luxurious suburban farmhouse with an eight-burner stove, it’s important to make your cooking space an efficient and inspiring workspace. This might mean coming up with 
creative storage solutions or buying space-
saving appliances, so you have room for all your new stuff. It also means giving your walls a pop of color and some personal flair, so you design a room you love.
To transform your space, simply start here: 
What about your kitchen bothers you the most? What doesn’t work? What serves as the biggest roadblock when cooking, or 
drives you to eat cereal for dinner?
Once you have your answer, fix it. Check 
out online resources like Pinterest.com and 
interior-decorating blogs or design magazines 
for budget-friendly kitchen solutions. Go feng shui or go to Ikea. Just spend time and a little money buying what you need—from a stockpot to a fresh coat of paint—that will 
make your low-so cooking easy and enjoyable.i52  :  LOW-SO GOODKitchen Essentials
There are some scenarios in life where having the best and most-updated equipment 
is extremely important, like skydiving and rock climbing. But when it comes to your 
kitchen, don’t let a barren setup or a tight budget stop you from cooking. You only 
really need a few basic items to start cooking, like a knife, a pot and a pan, and a source of heat. Everything else is about ease, efficiency, and exact measurements.
As your kitchen adventures expand, so will the range 
of your cooking tools. And this chapter will acquaint 
you with an overview of what’s available. Decide which 
items you want to buy now (measuring spoons); and which to keep for future purchases (a slow cooker).
Just remember, the only real essentials are those that 
fit within your current space and budget. So before we go shopping, let’s chat about a few ways to help limit clutter and over-spending.
Pick Multitaskers Over One-Trick Ponies: When 
purchasing big items, choose the ones with a range of talents and impressive résumés, like food processors 
that can chop vegetables, make dressings, and even 
mix bread dough. These items will earn their place on your counter.
Size Matters: When buying your essential items, 
go for versions that are lighter and smaller, like an 
immersion blender versus a stand-up blender. You 
will save precious cupboard space, and if they’re easy 
to store and lift, you’ll use them more often.
Try to DIY: Certain items, like biscuit cutters, can 
be replicated just by using metal measuring cups or 
empty metal cans. When considering buying an item, also consider if you can craft it yourself.Bargain Shop: You don’t need to buy everything new. 
Keep an eye out for discounts and sales. Scout second-
hand stores, flea markets, and garage sales. Shop on 
sites like eBay and Craigslist. And create gift registries on houseware websites to get the pricier items you covet for holidays and birthday presents.
Purge Regularly: If you find yourself swimming in 
serving spoons or trays or mismatched measuring 
cups, take the time to spring clean throughout the 
year. You can even host a utensil or serving ware “swap 
party” with friends to get rid of your unused goods and maybe pick up something you’ve been wanting.
Splurge Consciously: Make room for special items, 
like colorful enamel pots or holiday place settings. There’s always space for beautiful things that make 
cooking fun.PReP  :  53
TRACY BENJAMIN  
TALKS SUMAC
For a lady who loves black-and-white stripes, Tracy Benjamin (founder of Shutterbean  
.com and co-host of the Joy the Baker podcast) sure knows a lot about creating colorful 
food—in look and flavor. Just one peek at the rainbow of Popsicle creations on her blog 
and you’ll see what I’m talking about. I asked Tracy which spice she likes to use when 
something needs a little pop. And no surprise, it’s electric! 
Sumac is a tart, citrus-like spice that comes from the 
Middle East. It can be used in place of fresh lemon 
juice since it adds a nice fruity, salty tang to recipes. 
It’s perfect on fish or chicken, mixed in vinaigrettes, or 
sprinkled on top of rice dishes. I happen to love it in a fattoush (a salad traditionally made of fresh vegetables 
and toasted pita bread), Greek salads, and even 
meatballs because it brightens up the flavors and adds 
nice oomph. 54  :  LOW-SO GOODUtensil Essentials
Part necessity and part preference, the following items are ones I have acquired over 
the years. These are the “absolutes,” or tools I take out weekly or daily. I have also 
included a list of the fun items, which you do not need in order to conquer a recipe but 
may make your time in the kitchen more colorful and thrilling. When picking items for yourself, think about what you like to cook; how much space you have; and how many 
people you generally feed. Make sure items are easy to lift and clean, so you will use 
them often. Versatility trumps good looks and nifty gadgetry, and new doesn’t mean better. Make sure your kitchen tools fit your home and lifestyle.
THE ABSOLUTES
baking pans and cookie sheets
Baking pans have rolled edges, while cookie sheets 
do not (although some have one edge for gripping 
purposes). You use a baking pan for anything where 
you want an edge (like for focaccia or flatbread) as well as recipes that release juices (like when roasting vegetables). And leave the cookie sheet for, basically, 
cookies, biscuits, or other pastries. If you can buy only 
one, start with the rimmed kind because they’re the most versatile. Choose thicker or heavy-gauge mate-
rials, like aluminum or a steel-aluminum combination, 
to prevent warping and uneven cooking. Nonstick will work too, but your metal utensils will scratch those. Make sure to buy pans according to your budget and 
the size of your oven.
blenders
While it will take up some kitchen space, a counter-
top blender will smooth out those smoothies, sauces, 
and soups. Look for a model with long metal blades, a 
powerful motor, and angled sides, which will keep the food moving so that it doesn’t clump at the bottom. Also, an immersion blender is very handy. Just stick it in the liquid mixture, press a button, and blend. It 
even whips cream. Super-easy to clean, immersion 
blenders are lightweight and space efficient. Look for one with a strong motor, easy-to-press buttons, and a blending cup, which will keep ingredients closer to 
the blade when blending smaller volumes of liquid.
box grater and microplane
I constantly use a Microplane grater for zesting citrus 
and grating spices like nutmeg and cinnamon. A tradi-
tional box grater is not just for shredding cheese; use 
it to grate raw zucchini, squash, and carrots for raw additions to salads, yogurt dips, and healthful fillers for meatballs and pasta.
canning jars
Canning jars have been around for ages and are the Swiss army knives of the container family. Use them 
to transport salads or soups, whip up heavy cream 
in minutes, emulsify dressings with a quick shake, or mix up cocktails. They come in different sizes and PReP  :  55glass colors. They make nice food-gift containers, and 
are perfect for keeping fresh herbs in a bit of water 
(see page  78).
cooling racks
Beyond holding baked goods or other pans while they cool, wire cooling racks can sit on top of large baking 
sheets to make fish sticks, Salt-Free Bacon (page  93),  
and other dishes when you want to keep small pieces of meat crispy and clear of juicy drippings.
cutting boards
You’ll want several of these, because you should pre-pare your meat and vegetables on separate cutting 
boards to avoid cross contamination. Some people 
get different colors to keep track of which is which. Choices of material range from plastic to wood to bamboo—I prefer plastic because it does not warp 
like wood and I can put the boards in the dishwasher. 
Pick ones that will stay put on your counter while you chop, either with a grip or because it is made of 
heavier material so they won’t slide.
coffee/spice grinder
Nothing wakes your palate up like the aroma of freshly 
ground spices—just wait until you make your own 
Maharaja-Style Curry Powder (page 195). Although 
using a mortar and pestle will get the job done, it takes quite a lot of effort. This double-duty appliance, however, will turn those salt-free seeds and spices (or 
coffee grounds) into a fine powder in minutes.
dutch oven
I have a major crush on my enameled cast-iron Dutch 
oven. While some girls dream of wedding dresses, I 
dreamed of a bridal registry filled with enameled 
Dutch ovens in every color. You can use them on the 
stove and in the oven. They’re great heat conductors and tall enough for deep-frying. They work for 
long-cooking braises, stews, and soups, and even for baking a round loaf of bread. Start with a 5-qt [4.7-L] 
one, fall in love, and add other sizes as you can.
fire extinguisher
Just in case. You may never need it, but you’ll be glad 
it’s there if you do. Read the instructions so you’ll be 
prepared. And be sure to follow the tips on how to 
avoid ever needing to use it (see page  44).
food processors—large and 
small
If you have a small food processor, you can finely 
dice garlic or onions without tears, blend a sauce in 
minutes, chop nuts quickly, and grind whole spices. 
But don’t forget the larger version. Beyond chopping, grating, or ricing vegetables (à la Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and Edamame Salad [page 197]), a standard food 
processor will purée soups and make dough, quickly 
and easily, whether bread or broccoli gnocchi (see page 235). Just be sure to keep all the blades it comes 
with, because each has special superpowers.
knives
A sharp knife means safe slicing. And while you may 
eventually collect a whole set of knives (serrated bread 
knife, steak knives, etc.), a medium chef’s knife with 
a 6- or 7-in [15- or 17-cm] blade is the easiest to hold and will get the job done. It’s handy to have a second, cheaper large knife for backup when chopping and 
cutting tougher ingredients, like nuts and butternut 
squash, that may dull the blade. A medium-size ser-rated knife works best for foods with hard exteriors 
(like lemons and crusty bread) and ingredients that 
squash with pressure (like tomatoes). The teeth of the blade break through the skin or crust, making way for a clean slice.56  :  LOW-SO GOODloaf pan
You don’t need a bread maker for Super-Simple Sand-
wich Bread (page  149); you only need a loaf pan. But 
you can also use this multitasking pan for roasting 
small portions of vegetables and making meatloaf. I 
prefer nonstick material, since it browns the bread 
more than aluminum and makes for easy cleanup.
measuring cups—liquid and dry
There are different measuring devices calibrated for liquid ingredients (usually see-through glass or 
plastic, with a pouring spout) and for dry ingredients. 
Make sure the cups you buy are in standard sizes with clear markings and sturdy handles. Dry measuring cups do not reflect true volume measurements, and 
as such do not correspond to liquid measures. A stan-
dard set of dry measuring cups should include 
1/4-cup 
[60-ml], 1/3-cup [80-ml], 1/2-cup [125-ml], and 1-cup 
[250-ml] scoops.
measuring spoons
At some point, you’ll become confident enough to just sprinkle and pour spices and oils as you cook. 
But when trying a recipe for the first time (or when 
baking), get those measurements right with measur-ing spoons. Just like for measuring cups, favor clear markings and functionality over cute design.
muffin tins
Muffin tins most commonly come in jumbo (usually 
6 lar ge wells), standard (12  medium wells), and mini 
sizes (24  small wells). I prefer nonstick material and a 
wide edge for easy holding and cleaning. While these tins are most commonly used for muffins and cup-
cakes, they can also be used in any recipe that calls 
for ramekins, or to make smaller portions of savory 
meals, like Mini Hash Brown Quiches (page  208),  meatloaf, and lasagna. You can also use the muffin wells to hold your chopped and diced ingredients, or 
to freeze individual portions of pesto or tomato sauce. 
nonchemical cleaners and 
small vacuum
If cleaning up keeps you from cooking, then get over 
it and get yourself the supplies that make messes 
and spills no big deal. If your cleaning products are 
nonchemical and easy to get to, then you can clean as you cook and avoid a “stacked dish” disaster zone after the meal is over.
nonreactive bowls
Ceramic, glass, stainless steel, and enamel-coated metal all fall in the nonreactive category. To start, 
buy a three-piece set of heavy bowls (for example, 
ceramic) that will stay put while mixing and whisking. Then get a second three-piece set of heatproof bowls (for example, stainless steel) to use as a double boiler.
oven mitts
Safety first. Don’t try using towels.
ovenproof baking dishes
Square, rectangle, and oval. Glass, ceramic, and cast iron. You’ll find a wide range of ovenproof baking 
dishes in various sizes and shapes and materials. For 
ultimate versatility, choose those that are broiler-safe, 
like ceramic. And start with a square dish (8  by 8  in  
[20 by 20  cm]) and a rectangular dish (9  by 13  in [23  by  
33 cm]), which will work for most desserts, casseroles, 
and recipes in this book. As a plus, if you buy glass, ceramic, or enamel, they can also be used at the table 
for serving dishes, because they’re really pretty.PReP  :  57parchment paper and aluminum 
foil
Having these on hand will make cleaning easier. I line 
my baking sheets and pans with parchment or foil to 
limit residue and mess. Remember: Use parchment 
when cooking acidic ingredients to avoid tinny tastes, and use foil when you plan to cook at temperatures hotter than 425°F [220°C] to avoid a fire.
pastry brushes
Having a few of these on hand will let you grease pans and dishes, frost cookies, and paint your meats with 
marinades before they go into the oven or on the grill. 
Natural bristles work best.
ramekins
These small ceramic dishes are perfect for so many uses, such as individual pot pies, baked eggs, and tiny 
versions of big dishes. They also serve double-duty 
as food prep bowls to hold your chopped onions and spice rubs, and triple-duty as serving dishes for dips and spreads.
reusable storage containers
Going low-sodium often means packing food for work, travel, and any occasion where you eat away from 
home. That’s why it’s important to buy spill-proof 
storage containers with tight, well-sealed lids. I prefer glass over plastic containers, which are usually micro-wave safe. If you choose plastic containers, make sure 
they are BPA-free.
rice cooker and slow cooker
Meet your two favorite low-sodium sous chefs. When 
you have limited time and energy, these appliances 
do most of the work for you. No overcooked or burnt 
food, guaranteed(ish). While pricier models boast more features and presets, I find that basic, less-  
expensive versions, with usually only one or two heat settings, get the job done.
roasting pan with rack
A roasting pan should be deep enough to hold roast -
ing juices and wide enough to fit the largest item you 
ever plan to cook in it. While you do not need a rack, 
it will keep fatty meats from soaking in their juices, leaving the skin nice and crispy. Avoid nonstick pans and choose one made from heavy material, like clad 
stainless steel, to prevent burning and uneven cook-
ing. But you need to be able to lift the darn thing, so buy one with sturdy handles that you can easily 
maneuver. If this item would be a splurge, and you 
never plan to roast a huge turkey, use any ovenproof dish, tall enough to hold drippings, instead.
rolling pin
If you’re in a real pinch, you can always use a clean, label-free wine bottle to roll out your dough. I’ve done 
it plenty of times. But a wooden rolling pin will allow 
you to get those perfectly thin pie crusts, pizza doughs, and pasta sheets. I prefer a straight French rolling pin without tapered ends or handles since I find they 
require less work (and strength) on my part. Be sure to 
choose a length that fits your drawer or storage space.
salad spinner
Beyond drying your washed lettuce and vegetables, you can also use a salad spinner to help evenly dis-
tribute salad dressing right before serving.
salt and pepper grinders
If you find yourself with a pair of S and P grinders, 
don’t throw the salt one away. S can also mean “spice,” 
so fill it with other whole spices or a mix of seeds, like 58  :  LOW-SO GOODcoriander, cumin, and caraway. Then grind and sprin-
kle your spice and pepper at the dinner table. How’s 
that for a salt-free makeover?
saucepan
This pan, which looks like a pot, has high sides and a 
lid. It is a kitchen workhorse and you’ll use it for rice, 
soups, sauces, steamed vegetables, and even hard-
boiled eggs. Look for products made of nonreactive and high heat–conducting materials, so you get even cooking without burning. And choose saucepans with 
long handles for easier lifting.
skillet
If you can only get one kind of pan to start, go for a  
10- to 12-in [25- to 30-cm] stainless-steel skillet (also known as a frying pan) with an aluminum core, pref-
erably with a lid and an ovenproof surface and handle so you can use it for roasted vegetables, frittatas, and Chickpea-Flour Pizza crust (see page 94). Make sure 
the pan is large enough for the amount of servings you 
usually cook. You don’t want to crowd items in a pan. 
spatulas
When it comes to spatulas, you want one that flips and one that scrapes. A flat, thin-edged metal spat-
ula will easily slide under your Coconut “Panko” 
Pork Tonkatsu (page  218) and turn it to crisp on the 
other side. If you use nonstick pans, buy a heatproof 
silicone spatula, to avoid scratching your cookware. 
For scraping, a small rubber or silicone spatula will 
stir and scoop all that whipped cream from the bowl onto your cake. But unlike metal or silicone, a rubber spatula may melt, so be careful when using it near 
the stove.steamer basket
Here’s a surprising multitasker. Your steamer basket 
will not only steam vegetables when placed in a pot 
with a bit of water; it will also help you make Hickory- 
Smoked Fish Spread (page  228), and can double as a 
small colander.
stockpot
As the name suggests, a stockpot is mainly used for making stock. But it also works well for making a large batch of soup, chili, or pasta, and for blanch-
ing vegetables (see page  69). Sizes range from small 
(6 qt [5.7  L]) to large (20  qt [18.9  L]), and shapes 
vary from tall to wide. So pick what makes sense for 
your kitchen and cupboard space. For even cooking, 
choose products made from heavy, heat-conducting 
materials—like stainless steel with an aluminum core. Be sure to test-drive the handles. You want them to be 
sturdy so you can lift a full pot safely.
thermometers
Test, don’t guess! Use digital thermometers to test the 
doneness of meat (meat thermometer), the tempera-
ture of oil (candy/deep-fry thermometer), and the true 
temperatures of your oven and fridge. Just be sure to buy the right kind for each task. If you can find it, per-haps purchase a multipurpose product.
timer
Whether it is the one on your phone or a cute ceramic rooster, you will need a timer that works. You may 
want to get several for those evenings when you are 
cooking many dishes at the same time.
tongs
Tongs will turn roasting veggies, flip searing meat, and pluck a lobster from boiling water. And, of course, PReP  :  59help you avoid scorched fingertips. Start with 8- or 
10-in [20- or 25-cm-] tongs for best maneuverability 
and safety. Make sure they open and close with ease 
and have heat-safe handles. I prefer those that lock for easier storage.
vegetable peeler
You have two basic choices for peelers—the straight swivel and the Y-shaped. I prefer the straight swivel, 
because you do not have to rotate your wrist to use it. 
But buy the one that feels right for you. A vegetable peeler will clean carrots, make vegetable ribbons, and create a pile of chocolate curls.
wooden spoons
A few of these will stir your soups, mix your cookie dough, and even tell you when your oil is hot (see 
page  146). Plus, they stand up to heat, whereas plas -
tic spoons may not, and they do not scratch delicate 
cooking surfaces. Their woody material will absorb 
smells and colors, however, so if you can, buy two spoons—one for sweet items and one for savory.
FOR LOOKS, FOR 
EASE, FOR FUN
apron
No one will make you wear an apron in the kitchen. 
But sometimes, by just tying one on, you suddenly feel 
more capable, and perhaps freer to make a mess. Like 
a superhero’s cape or a pop singer’s stage name (ahem, Sasha Fierce), your apron gives you the confidence to tackle new recipes, ingredients, and techniques. 
(Capes are just a little too dangerous when you’re 
working with open flame.)cherry pitter
Yes, a cherry pitter is a single-skilled tool, but it will get you through a mound of cherries faster than using 
a straw and more safely than using a paring knife. 
You’ll enjoy using it when you make Pickled Cherries 
(page  249).
food scale
Even if you do not portion or weigh your food, a dig-
ital scale proves essential when trying a new baking adventure or substituting whole grains or gluten-free 
mixes for the regular flour in a recipe. You may even find that it makes measuring ingredients easier than 
filling a cup or spoon, as you can just pour them 
directly into one bowl.
grill pan
With this pan in your kitchen, you won’t need a bar-becue or even the sun to get the charred lines and 
roasted flavor of a grill.
hand mixer
Less expensive than a stand mixer, an electric hand 
mixer works well for small mixing tasks, like whipping 
cream and blending cake batter. Plus, the metal whisks 
detach so they can be washed in the dishwasher for easy clean up, or licked by eager onlookers. 
julienne peeler or spiral slicer
This device can turn your vegetables into spaghetti-  lik e 
noodles, making meatless Mondays more fun, lunch prep super-quick, and hot nights full of cool options.
mandoline
A mandoline will slice vegetables into even, thin, pretty discs if you want to leave them raw for salads, 
sides, salt-free pickles, or sandwich toppings. Be sure 60  :  LOW-SO GOODto buy one with a safety guard. You can always chop 
veggies by hand, but the mandoline will make elegant 
slices quickly.
pasta maker
You can always use a rolling pin to flatten your pasta 
dough, but a pasta maker with attachments will do the 
hard work for you. And it’s so easy to use, you may be 
inspired to make homemade pasta more often.
radio or portable speakers
To make cooking truly enjoyable, you might want to have some background music or listen to a favorite 
radio program. Having a little company will keep you 
grooving (or learning) instead of anxiously waiting for the pot to boil.smoking chips
I never thought wood chips would have a place in my home. But after learning how to smoke my own fish 
on the stove, I now like to have a stash of hickory, 
mesquite, cedar, and other fruitwood chips on hand. They lend a smoky flavor to everything from vege-tables to meat and even fruit. And, of course, your 
sweater.
waffle maker, springform cake 
pan, and ice-cream maker
You may want to get these items. We will use them for 
recipes in this book and I think they’re lots of fun.PReP  :  61Pantry Essentials
Now it’s time to open your pantry and fill those shelves with shelf-stable dry 
goods that will be lifesavers when you need a basic ingredient to make a dish, a few 
ingredients to throw together for dinner when you’re in a pinch, or some low-sodium 
prepared items that allow you to cut corners. Here’s what to keep in stock:
 +Baking powder, sodium-free
 +Baking soda, sodium-free
 +Beans, canned and dried
 +Coconut milk, canned
 +Flours; all-purpose, bread, chickpea, whole-wheat
 +Fruit, dried, unsulfured
 +Garlic, unpeeled
 +Ginger
 +Grains; quinoa, couscous, rice
 +Honey
 +Marinades and sauces, low-sodium
 +Molasses, unsulfured
 +Mushrooms, dried
 +Nori sheets, sodium-free
 +Nut and seed butters (including tahini), no salt added
 +Nuts and seeds, whole, unsalted +Oils; olive, coconut, vegetable, nonstick spray
 +Onions; red, white, yellow
 +Pasta, no salt added
 +Pizza dough mix, packaged and sodium-free
 +Popcorn, microwave, salt-free
 +Shallots
 +Sugars; brown, granulated, powdered
 +Sweet additions; puffed rice, marshmallows, dried 
cherries, dark chocolate chips, candied ginger, and 
anything that sounds good for yogurt or a sweet 
snack mix
 +Tomato products, canned, no salt added; diced, sauce, and paste
 +Tomatoes, dried, no salt added
 +Vegetable purée, canned, no salt added; butternut squash and pumpkin
 +Vinegars; unseasoned rice, balsamic, apple cider62  :  LOW-SO GOOD
From the Crew at Food52.Com—
Making the Most of Your Pantry
Your pantry is always hiding tricks up its sleeves. It 
holds spices and staples and dinners that can come 
together in 20  minut es, even after weeks without 
grocery shopping. It is your greatest asset.
But there are still more ways to get the most out of your 
pantry—to deepen the flavors sitting in there, to stretch 
a can of no-salt-added tomato paste, to use the package 
of couscous sitting in the corner. Here are a few tricks you can use to maximize your pantry’s potential.
Check the expiration dates on your oils.  It’s easy 
to forget about them, but they will go rancid within a 
certain amount of time. Keep an eye on that label, and 
consider storing more delicate oils—especially those made from nuts and seeds—in the fridge.
Same goes for spices! Don’t keep them for more 
than a year. After that, they’ll lose a lot of flavor, and 
won’t do the heavy lifting you need them to do.
To get more flavor from your spices, toast them, 
which will turn their notes deeper, fuller, more spicy. Just heat a clean, dry pan over low heat, then 
toast whole spices until they turn fragrant. Coriander, 
cumin, and fennel seeds do especially well with this treatment. Then, grind them in a grinder—you’ll be 
amazed at the enhanced flavor.Toast your grains, too. Just think about risotto. 
Cooking rice in fat adds flavor to every grain. In the same way, toasting quinoa, farro, and millet—whether dry, or in oil—will add a nuttiness to an otherwise 
simple dish.
Label everything! The best way to ensure that your 
chickpea flour won’t go bad is to remember that it exists. Label things clearly, and transfer staples like 
flours, sweeteners, dried beans, and lentils into clear, 
sturdy, reusable containers, like jars or food-safe plastic. This saves you money, too, since you’re less likely to accidentally buy an ingredient that you already have.
When you have leftovers—like 2 or 3 Tbsp of 
homemade and salt-free tomato or curry paste, 
or extra coconut milk—freeze them. You can extend the shelf life of basically anything that will 
freeze. We’re fond of ice-cube molds, which allow  
you to use only what you need.
Don’t let nuts go rancid. The fat in walnuts, 
almonds, and pecans causes them to have a short 
shelf life, unless you store them in the fridge or 
freezer, where they will keep much longer. So give 
them a good chill.PReP  :  63Spice Essentials
Clear out some cupboard shelf space or a few kitchen drawers, because we are about 
to go spice shopping. If you are like me, you’ll end up with a minimum of twenty-five 
spices and blends to choose from at all times.
To get started, it is best to pick a few spices at a 
time or buy from bulk bins in smaller portions when 
trying something new. Then, take the time to get to 
know each spice. Smell it. Taste-test it with a blank canvas, like roasted chicken or potatoes, white beans, or steamed rice. Make note of the warmth, the sweet-
ness, the spiciness, or the tingle it provides. Then, 
forget about being right or wrong when it comes to using it. Make up your own mind and your own rules 
about where it shines.
To help you, let me recommend my Six Salt-Free 
Starter Spices. These are your gateway spices. You 
can use them in pretty much any cuisine, from any 
region, with any ingredients, in an immeasurable number of combinations. Start with these six spices and experience big flavor beyond salt to build your 
spice confidence. And remember, sometimes salt 
is used as a filler for spices and blends. So look for 
 products that clearly state “no salt added,” “salt-free,”  
or 0 mg of sodium on the nutritional label.
Cayenne pepper/red pepper flakes: A little heat (and 
a little citrus) will majorly wake up a dish. Cayenne 
refers to the ground form of the pepper, while red 
pepper flakes are the dried and crushed form of the pepper. They are both hot spices, but do not try to replace the same amount of one with the other—
1/2 tsp 
of cayenne will pack more punch than 1/2 tsp of red pepper flakes. For those who like more mild heat, I sug-
gest using flakes as I find them easier to gently adjust 
to your desired spiciness without going overboard.
Cumin (seeds and ground): Cumin adds a subtle heat 
to dishes without being too hot. The husky warmth 
of cumin pairs beautifully with everything from lamb to beans to butternut squash—and even grilled watermelon.
Dried dill: Tasty with vegetables, proteins, pasta, or 
just a simple serving of yogurt, this sweet and versa-
tile herb adds a springtime brightness to your dishes.
Peppercorns: Freshly ground black peppercorns are 
more intense than prepared ground black pepper. So 
I encourage you to grind your own right before using. 
And why stop at black? You’d be surprised how many 
types of peppercorns there are. Try the range of vari-eties (white, green, pink, and Tellicherry) for different 
levels of spiciness.
Salt-free garlic powder: Simply put, this is the “salt” 
of salt-free cooking. You’ll use it on everything to add 
a pleasant savory flavor and to bring out other natural 
flavors.
Smoked paprika: Smoky and sweet and colorful, this 
spice will become a favorite of yours. You may start 
using it in and on everything.64  :  LOW-SO GOODHere’s where things start to get really wild and fun. 
There are countless other spices to try from all over 
the world, sold as whole seeds or ground powders. 
There are salt-free versions of blends you’ve probably heard of before, such as taco seasoning and curry powder, as well as many blends you may have yet to 
try, such as dukka and jerk seasoning. Don’t forget 
about dried herbs. Unlike fresh herbs, they stand up to long cooking times and retain flavor without 
getting bitter. They also easily replace fresh herbs in 
a recipe—just use one-third as much. The point is, there are many flavors to try beyond the Six Salt-Free Starter Spices, so let’s explore other favorites that are 
nice to have on hand.
top 	six 	whole 	spices 	
 +Caraway seeds
 +Cardamom pods
 +Celery seed (not celery salt)
 +Coriander seeds
 +Fennel seeds
 +Mustard seeds
top 	six 	fresh 	herbs
 +Basil
 +Chives
 +Dill
 +Mint
 +Rosemary
 +Tarragonother 	spices 	t o 	ha ve 	on 	hand
 +Chili powder, salt-free
 +Cinnamon
 +Dried onion (voilà, onion dip!)
 +Extracts; vanilla, lemon, almond
 +Ground cloves
 +Ground ginger
 +Ground mustard
 +Ground nutmeg or mace
 +Sesame seeds
 +Star anise
 +Tea (Hint: Use to add subtle flavor to poached fish, 
cookies, and puddings—see Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding, page  112.)PReP  :  65STRETCHING YOUR SPICES
Sometimes you buy a spice for a particular recipe 
only to let it sit in a drawer until you make that dish 
again. Which could be months from now. But just 
because a spice seems destined for a specific food doesn’t mean that any spice can’t reach far beyond its most common cuisines and uses.
For example, you may think cumin is best for BBQ rubs. 
But it is also a mainstay in Indian curries, Moroccan stews, and Mexican beans. It’s also excellent on simple 
roasted carrots and adds a surprising smokiness to 
savory scones.
Use this cheat sheet to think beyond the obvious and 
stretch your imagination. And gain the confidence to 
tackle other spices in your rack on your own.
allspice (ground)
Spice starter: GingerbreadSpice stretch: Meatballs, chutney, oven-fried chicken
caraway seeds
Spice starter: BreadSpice stretch: Scrambled eggs, 
potato salad, burger patties
celery seeds
Spice starter: Pickling liquid
Spice stretch: Matzo ball soup,  
egg salad, root vegetable gratin
chili powder
Spice starter: BBQ chickenSpice stretch: Roasted cauliflower, 
creamy soup, lentilscinnamon (ground)
Spice starter: Pumpkin pie
Spice stretch: Chicken pot pie, glazed 
carrots, brown butter fish
cloves
Spice starter: Poached pear (whole cloves)
Spice stretch: Chili, pork tenderloin, 
mango sorbet (ground cloves)
cocoa powder
Spice starter: Brownies
Spice stretch: Rib rub, baked beans, enchilada sauce
coffee grounds
Spice starter: Steak rubSpice stretch: Ice cream, chocolate cookies,  
meringues
curry powder
Spice starter: TofuSpice stretch: Savory granola, 
hummus, currant scones
shichimi (japanese seven-spice)
Spice Starter: Rice
Spice Stretch: Grilled peaches or 
watermelon, grilled corn, avocado salad
star anise (ground)
Spice starter: Braised beef
Spice stretch: Savory cranberry relish, 
berry crumbles, pancakes
za’atar
Spice starter: Lamb
Spice stretch: Meatballs, coleslaw, yogurt66  :  LOW-SO GOODCHERYL STERNMAN RULE  
TALKS CARDAMOM
Cheryl is the kind of woman who agrees to meet a stranger for coffee on a busy summer 
day and answer endless  question about writing, cooking, and life in general. That’s how 
I first fell in love with Cheryl. The unknown doesn’t scare her. She’s generous with her 
time and knowledge. She’s a natural-born teacher. And for many years now, she’s kindly 
helped me navigate uncharted territory and, thankfully, turned into a dear friend as well.
Since that coffee date, I’ve not only become majorly obsessed with her as a human being, 
but as a vivid storyteller and recipe creator, too—examples of which can be found on her 
blog, 5 Second Rule, and her books, Ripe and Yogurt Culture. She’s an expert at blending 
the familiar with the eye-opening—both in words and in food. That’s why I asked her to 
talk to you about cardamom, to demystify this strange spice and show you how a little 
sprinkle will make the commonplace memorable.
I blame my nose, since before I ever tasted cardamom, 
I smelled it, and afterward I was pretty much done for. 
One whiff of the mysteriously floral spice and suddenly I spooned it everywhere—pancakes and cookies, 
curries and soups, cakes and muffins. But cardamom, 
which comes in green, black, and even white pods 
(I’m partial to green), as well as ground, is a spice that 
demands a certain restraint. It’s fairly brash, and when 
overused it can bully subtler flavors and ingredients, 
forcing them into the background whether they belong there or not.
Chai drinkers have known about whole cardamom 
for ages, of course, because the pods are an essential 
ingredient in this popular milky tea. After bruising the 
pods to release their essential oils and let their flavor 
run free, they’re steeped with their cousins (cinnamon, 
clove, ginger, and black pepper) to add intoxicating 
flavor and aroma to the classic Indian brew. I also add bruised pods to saffron rice, to poaching fruit, to korma, to crème anglaise. (Lift out the spent shells 
before serving.)
Ground, cardamom is excellent in pretty much 
anything you’d use cinnamon in; oatmeal (try a drizzle of coconut milk with your cardamom), waffles, or 
applesauce. Scandinavians are especially fond of it in 
baking, especially in coffee cakes and pastry braids. 
Just go easy. Cardamom’s a passionate spice, and a 
gentle nudge is more than sufficient to warm up your 
batter and set your heart aflutter.PReP  :  67JESS THOMSON  
TALKS ABOUT THE ZING OF ZEST
Meet my soul sister, Jess. Besides talking like me, sharing a life with lupus, and, oh yeah, 
that whole first-name thing, we also both love all things food (and you can read more 
about her creations at Hogwash.com as well as in the many books she’s authored). 
Beyond our similarities, what I adore and respect most about Jess is her ability to 
brighten up a room, a gloomy situation, and, yes, boring meals. So the next time your 
soup or salad has you down, just think, What would Jess do? She’d give it zest. And now 
she’ll show you how.
You know what they say about how when life gives you 
lemons, you should make lemonade? Nothing against 
lemonade, but I think that’s awfully shortsighted. Lemon zest, the sunny outermost layer every lemon 
wears with pride, is a delicious (and easy) way to add 
brightness and flavor to dishes year-round. Use it the 
way you use fresh herbs—liberally, in cold or hot foods, 
when you think something you’re making needs a little more punch.
A quick note: Although lemon zest and lemon peel are 
often used interchangeably, the zest is technically the 
outermost yellow layer, while the peel includes the bitter white pith underneath. Both parts are edible, 
but the citric, floral flavor you’re looking for comes 
from the natural oils found only in the yellow part. And 
there are three great ways to get the zest off a lemon, 
besides a kitchen knife.
First, you can use a Microplane grater to shave the zest 
off in soft piles. When it’s grated finely like this, whisk 
lemon zest into any dry ingredient that goes into a 
baked good—think flour or sugar—for added flavor.  
I also love adding finely grated zest to vinaigrettes.Second, you can use a so-called zester—a kind of 
medieval-looking instrument that looks like a handle 
with the world’s most miniature set of brass knuckles at one end—to strip that yellow gold off in thin 
ribbons. I use these longer strips of zest when I want 
a more pronounced lemony punch. Try adding the 
ribbons from about one-quarter of a medium-size fruit 
to sautéed vegetables, chicken salad, any dish made with cooked grains, or to pickles of any sort.
Third, you can use a vegetable peeler to cut the zest off 
in strips 1  in [2.5  cm] wide. Use big strips of zest (which 
some call “peel”) at “wine-thirty” (a.k.a. Happy Hour), or 
drop them into braises to add flavor to chicken or lamb.
The power of the peel (or zest) isn’t limited to lemons. 
Use orange, lime, or grapefruit zest the same way. Save 
the rest of your citrus in the refrigerator to use later.68  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Refrigerator Essentials
By now, you’ve assembled a useful selection of utensils, dry goods, and spices to 
support you in your food adventures to come. So let’s talk about the leader of the 
operation: the fridge.
Your refrigerator is the compass that will set the 
course of your meals, and what’s inside will mean 
the difference between merely edible food and unbe-
lievable deliciousness. What you have in your fridge determines what you are able to make for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Yes, you can happily get by with 
dried rice and beans. And I have. But a thoughtfully 
stocked refrigerator means flavorful flexibility and the ability to create impressive food whenever you want.
 +Eggs, large
 +Fresh fruit (like citrus and avocados) +Fresh herbs
 +Jams
 +Juice
 +Meat
 +Mustard, low- or no-sodium
 +Starch; potatoes, sweet potato, squash, corn
 +Vegetables; broccoli, leafy greens, carrots, zucchini
 +Yogurt
Freezer Essentials
Take note of what you find in the store’s freezer section and then re-create the 
convenience at home.
frozen doughs and crusts
Whether you make your dough ahead of time or save 
the extra scraps, don’t let your hand-kneaded work go 
to waste. For pizza and bread dough, oil it before plac-
ing in a plastic bag. Squeeze out all the air (or suck out the air with a straw), and then freeze. To use frozen yeast-based pizza dough or bread dough, let it thaw in the refrigerator for 4  hours and then rest at room 
temperature for about 10  minutes before baking.
To freeze uncooked pasta dough, sprinkle a baking pan with flour. Lay out the noodles on the pan, toss 
them in the flour, and then place the whole pan in the 
freezer. When hard, put the pasta in airtight plastic bags or containers, in individual portions. To use, skip PReP  :  69
the thawing process and plop frozen pasta right into 
your boiling water when ready to cook. Cook for 3  to  
5 minutes for small, thin noodles, and 5  to 7  minutes  
for larger, thicker pastas.
For cookie dough, use a spoon or ice-cream scoop to 
portion out individual cookies, freeze, and then put 
into an airtight plastic container. Or shape cookie dough into a log, wrap in wax paper or plastic wrap, 
and freeze. Then, slice and bake from frozen as your 
sweet tooth demands. Add a couple of extra minutes to the bake time when starting with frozen dough.
For pie dough, press the extra dough into a metal or 
ceramic pie dish, wrap in plastic wrap (tightly!), and freeze. Then bake without thawing—like cookies, add a few more minutes of cooking due to the cold start. 
And don’t forget to freeze the pie fillings, too, in pie-
sized portions, to make things truly easy as pie.
frozen meat
You’ll be happy you stocked up on steak, chops, chicken, and shrimp for those nights when you crave 
protein but didn’t have time to go to the store. Con-
sult the FDA Refrigerator and Freezer Storage Chart (www.fda.gov/downloads/Food/FoodborneIllness  
Contaminants/UCM109315.pdf) for optimal storage 
time to ensure safety and quality. Be sure to label 
your frozen meats with type and the date you froze it. Leave time for proper thawing in the fridge (not 
on the counter) overnight or longer. When cooking 
steaks or chops, though, it’s actually best to skip the thaw and cook frozen. Just add some extra minutes to the cooking time depending on the size of the cut. Blanching Vegetables
All low-sodium eaters and cooks must understand blanching, or quickly boiling, vegetables. Why? This 
technique (also referred to as “parboiling”) will 
partially cook vegetables while retaining (if not enhancing) their bright hue—a great party trick for crudité platters and salads, as well as a time-saver 
when grilling or pan-frying tougher ingredients, like 
Brussels sprouts. It is also an essential step in freezing vegetables properly and safely.
Understanding blanching will also keep your meals 
low-sodium-safe, as many home cooks and chefs add 
salt to the blanching water. So when dining out, ask for vegetables to be kept raw, steamed, or blanched without salted water.
The technique for blanching is pretty much the same 
whether you’ve got corn or cauliflower. Fill a medium 
bowl with water and ice and stick it in the freezer to keep cold. Then fill a medium pot with water and bring 
it to a boil. If your vegetables need trimming, peeling, or 
cutting (like green beans or carrots), do the prep right before you blanch. Take the ice bath out of the freezer when the water is boiling and add the vegetables to 
the pot, in batches, if needed. When the vegetables are 
slightly tender, after 1  t o 2  minut es (or 2  t o 3  minut es 
for larger items like broccoli florets), use a slotted 
spoon to transfer them to the ice bath. When cool to 
the touch, transfer the vegetables to a paper towel–
lined plate or give them a whirl in a salad spinner to dry off. Use the vibrant vegetables immediately, store in an 
airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1  w eek, 
or freeze (see page  71) for up to 1  y ear.70  :  LOW-SO GOOD
IRVIN LIN  
TALKS GOING ROGUE WITH GRAINS AND FLOUR
As the genius behind the blog Eat The Love and author of the upcoming Marbled, 
Swirled, Layered, Irvin Lin knows what he’s doing when it comes to baking. You should 
see the sweet holiday spread he cranks out every year. It’s a cookie explosion.
But what’s really special about Irvin (and his baked goods) is that, while baking involves 
exact measurements and a bit of science, he’s not afraid to experiment, especially when 
it comes to using grains and flours beyond the all-purpose kind. Kamut, amaranth, 
and spelt each have their own flavor profiles; which means, instead of hovering in the 
background, they can be the star of the recipe. Or like Irvin says, cookies no longer just 
have to be about the chocolate chips.
So enjoy these tips from Irvin to harness the power of grains and flours, and use them just  
like a spice to add something special to those cakes, breads, crumbles, and even salads.
get to know your grains and  
flours
Buckwheat tastes “malty,” amaranth is “grassy,” Kamut 
is “buttery,” and semolina is “crunchy.” Once you 
understand the tastes and textures provided by each 
grain and flour, you can use them as you would spices 
to change the profile of your favorite recipes. So give it 
a taste. Then start switching things up.
make your own
While you can always ransack the bulk bins, you can also make your own flours at home. Use a food 
processor to grind nuts, oats, grains, and even coconut 
into a fine powder [like for the Lemon Zinger Bars on 
page  175]. Then experiment with small batches or even 
combine them to make your own mixes. Coconut and pistachio flour, anyone?give it a try
When you have the confidence to start subbing grains and flours in your favorite recipes, use a scale 
and swap by weight. Usually you can successfully 
substitute 25  per cent of the original all-purpose 
flour for any other grain. But if you’re a little nervous, 
start with something simple, like a crumble, where 
the butter and sugar act as a safety net—failure is 
not an option when they’re around. Another idea for 
something toasty; instead of using flour, try adding 
rolled oats, millet for a mildly nutty flavor, or almond 
flour for something buttery and a bit savory. Be 
warned, though, this will be your gateway substitution. There’s no stopping you after that.PReP  :  71
frozen vegetables and fruit
You can cook with corn and peaches all year long if 
you have them in your freezer. This is nice, especially 
during the winter root season when a little extra 
sweetness or color is greatly welcome. Just make sure you buy products with 0 mg of sodium or “no salt added.” Or buy extra produce, wash ripe fruit and 
blanch vegetables, then freeze on trays. When hard, 
place into airtight containers or bags. And remem-ber, you can freeze portions of pestos and vegetable 
purées in muffin tins or ice-cube trays (before placing 
in a plastic bag) to save freezer space and time. 
leftovers
Don’t be afraid to make big portions or double recipes. If you properly store leftovers, you can take the night off from the stove once in a while and still eat low-  
sodium. Just remember to cool food before storing, 
keep serving-size portions in airtight plastic bags or in 
plastic wrap to reduce moisture loss and freezer burn, and label with the dish name and date of preparation. 
Most cooked food keeps well frozen for 2  to 3  months . 
Beware: Pasta can become mushy when reheated. So if you know extra noodles are bound for the freezer, 
slightly undercook them.
sauces, stock, coconut milk
Freeze these liquids in ice-cube trays. Once they’ve 
hardened, transfer the cubes to airtight containers. 
You can pull a few cubes out as needed. The coconut 
milk will separate when thawed, so simply remix it. These will keep for 3 months.
Emergency Essentials
With your cupboards and refrigerator full, there’s one last place people forget to stock 
with low-sodium goods: Emergency kits.
It took me years to realize that my bag of SOS items 
needed a major low-sodium makeover. The last 
thing you’d want during an earthquake or a Godzilla 
attack is not having the sustenance you need to stay healthy (and able to fight really large creatures). So beyond warm clothes, medical supplies, and water, 
make sure you pack a can opener and some of these 
nonperishables: +Low-sodium or no-salt-added soups
 +No-salt-added beans and vegetables
 +Low-sodium canned fish
 +No-salt-added granola bars
 +Baby food (Most baby food is packed full of good 
nutrition with little to no sodium)4
Shop
 
Getting More from  
Shopping at the MarketShOP  :  73
ShOP  :  73
y favorite place in the world is the 
grocery store. For many people, the 
market represents tedious errands, frozen 
dinners, or cleanups on aisle four. And for 
those of us on special diets, it can serve as 
a reminder of all the food we cannot eat 
anymore.
To me, the grocery store means endless 
possibilities. It is a warehouse of flavor and the starting line for many memorable meals to come. Going to my local market gives me inspiration. I go so often, everyone knows my 
name, which could seem a little embarrassing 
but is ultimately essential for cooking delicious low-sodium meals. When you have a relationship with your store, you also have a direct line to the people who can put your 
favorite products on the shelves.
But my excitement and confidence in 
wandering the aisles grew over time. This transformation required both instruction and 
a new set of shopping skills, which they don’t 
teach in school. With a little extra know-how and practice, you, too, will not only begin to enjoy (and love) your trips to the store, but you’ll get more from those aisles and shelves 
than ever before.M74  :  LOW-SO GOODLesson One: Read the Labels
Welcome to shopping school. Let’s begin by talking about the contents of the market. 
There’s the fresh stuff—produce, meats, and fish—and then there’s the packaged 
stuff—dairy, deli, and anything in a bag, box, or can.
When it comes to figuring out the nutritional content 
of fresh foods, use resources like the USDA National 
Nutrient Database for Standard Reference for sodium 
averages or ask store clerks and managers for more product information. When dealing with the packaged stuff, however, all that information is right there on 
the package. Which brings us to our first shopping 
skill: reading labels.
PACKAGED STUFF
Let’s start by decoding that jargon on the label. Begin with the back of the product. Here you’ll find the 
nutrition facts panel, which includes a listing of the 
%DV (percentage daily value) of sodium found in one serving. The amount of sodium per serving is listed in milligrams (mg). The %DV currently is based on a 
daily sodium intake of 2,400  mg per person, which is 
100 mg more than the USDA’s upper recommended limit. Keep in mind that the can, bag, or package 
usually contains more than one serving, so if you plan 
to eat or use more than a single serving, make sure  
to multiply those sodium numbers to calculate the true total.
Next, scan the ingredient list. Of course, you’ll want to 
look for words like salt, sodium, and Na (the chemical 
symbol for sodium). But also look for sneakier sodium 
contributors: +baking powder
 +baking soda
 +monosodium glutamate (MSG)
 +sodium benzoate
 +sodium citrate
 +sodium nitrate
On the front of a package, you’ll find other key terms 
to help you decipher the sodium content in a product, 
including:
 +No Salt Added These products contain no sodium 
chloride. The sodium content, if any, will come from 
the natural sodium found in the ingredients.
 +Sodium-Free  These products have less than 5  mg of 
sodium per serving and contain no sodium chloride.
 +Very Low Sodium  These products contain 35  mg or 
less of sodium per serving.
 +Low Sodium  These products contain 140  mg or less 
of sodium per serving.
 +Light in Sodium This term means that the sodium 
level in the product has been reduced by at least 
50 per cent per serving from its original level or a 
competitor’s product. So, if that product started with 
more than 500  mg of sodium per serving, then you’re 
still talking about 250  mg of sodium per serving.
 +Reduced (or Less) Sodium This term means that the sodium level in the product has been reduced 
by 25  per cent per serving from the original or a ShOP  :  75competitor’s product. So, if that product started with 
more than 500  mg of sodium per serving, then you’re 
still talking about 375  mg of sodium per serving.
Keep in mind that miscellaneous items, like spices 
and over-the-counter medications, may also contain 
sodium. Also, some items, like balsamic vinegar and 
dry pastas, will differ in sodium content, depending on the brand. A simple turn of a bottle will tell you what’s sodium-free and what is not. If you’re unsure, 
here’s a general rule of thumb: Whether it is a bag of 
chips or bottle of vitamin D tablets, if a product does not provide nutritional information, skip it and look 
for one that does give you the information.
One of the most amazing aspects of the grocery store 
is that the items change with great frequency. New 
seasons bring new produce. New health trends mean 
new products in the snack, freezer, and dairy aisles. So looking at labels, every label, is very important. Even when it seems impossible that a product could 
be a low-sodium choice, you should always turn the 
package around and see. Over the years, a simple glance led me to discovering no-salt-added pickles, 
low-sodium deli meat, and low-sodium Swiss cheese. 
Be a vigilant label reader and you might find some unexpectedly low-sodium products.
FRESH STUFF
Now that we’ve tackled the packaged stuff, let’s talk about the fresh stuff—mainly, what you’ll find at the 
meat and fish counters.
A big, surprising issue: Beware of “brine.” When 
it comes to poultry (and even beef, pork, fish, and 
shellfish), some manufacturers plump proteins with salty solutions before they hit the store, increasing the 
sodium of chicken, for instance, by up to 500 percent.
Avoid items with “broth,” “percent solution,” 
“enhanced,” and even “natural flavoring” listed in the small print. Look for “air-chilled” and “no water added” 
to identify products that are free of brine and plumping. 
When in doubt, read nutritional information, talk to your butcher, and use your sodium know-how—for example, 
natural chicken should be around 70  mg of sodium per 
4 o z [115  g]—to make sure no extra stuff was added.
Armed with this information, you can easily detect which whole foods fall on your “do eat” list and which 
do not. Though it may feel overwhelming at first, just 
like any other skill (knitting, yoga, cocktail mixing), it gets easier and more enjoyable over time.
a tip from beth shanaman, rd
If the numbers and percentages on labels 
make you dizzy, don’t break out your calculator. Instead, use this clever trick from Beth Shanaman, a registered dietitian at Northwest Kidney Centers, to make 
shopping and sodium decisions simple.
Ignore the %DV. Read the mg! Think of the recommended limit of 1,500 mg of sodium a day like money. If you have $1,500 to spend, then look at each food as taking money away from that total. Is it worth it to spend $800 (or 800 mg)—more than half of your “budget”—on a single ingredient? Or is it better spent on 
a total meal?76  :  LOW-SO GOODLesson Two: Walk the Aisles
At first glance, the grocery store is full of food. But you’ll find that it’s also filled with 
tools that make low-sodium cooking exciting. Rice cereal and granola offer uses 
beyond breakfast or midday snacks, and jam can embellish more than just bread. 
Which leads us to our second shopping skill: Know what the aisles offer you.
canned goods
From tomato sauce to beans, vegetables, and bouillon, 
these days the canned goods section carries a huge 
variety of no-salt-added products. These are pantry 
staples that, together with frozen vegetables, make throwing together a satisfying weeknight meal as easy as a twist of the can opener. Spend some time 
in this aisle and remember, even though these items 
are technically ready to eat, they can always benefit from some extra attention. Add your own spices, oils, 
herbs, and vinegars to make these foods pop.
dairy and deli meat
For years, I didn’t even bother with the dairy and deli 
meat aisles. Then I found Swiss cheese with only 35 mg 
of sodium per slice and cottage cheese with only 45  mg  
per 1/4 cup [55 g], and life changed. Now I turn around 
every packet of bacon, sliced turkey, and cheese spread just in case I find something new I can enjoy.
freezer
For all those who think keeping a low-sodium diet means spending tons of time in the kitchen, I say, 
head to the freezer aisle. Having starches and vegeta-
bles cut and ready to cook means you can make dinner in a matter of minutes. Remember to read the label for hidden sodium in some products.international foods
Even your taste buds like to travel. Luckily and sur -
prisingly, this aisle is packed with low-sodium-friendly 
products like matzo crackers, pickled ginger, hot 
sauce, nori (a.k.a. sushi seaweed), as well as a variety of dried chile peppers. These will act as great flavor boosters as well as stand-ins for higher-sodium ingre-
dients, like sandwich bread and crackers. 
meat counter
Just like with fruits and vegetables, try out unfamiliar 
proteins and cuts of meat. Instead of tilapia, try that 
strange-sounding monkfish. By learning how to cook 
different chops, ribs, filets, and even livers, you’ll pick up new techniques, flavor combinations, and recipes. All that knowledge will give you the confidence to 
experiment and substitute ingredients on your own. 
You’ll find yourself buying what looks good or what’s on sale rather than what the recipe lists. Remember, 
you only need a little bit of meat to add a salt-like 
flavor to your meals, so save that leftover ground pork or a splash of rendered chicken drippings to add a savory kick to your other dishes.ShOP  :  77prepared foods
Most markets now offer prepared soups, sandwiches, 
and side dishes. Even though you most likely won’t 
find anything low-sodium in this section (yet!), you 
will find lots of inspiration. Chili macaroni and cheese, lemongrass soup, smashed potatoes with sage, and other interesting concoctions will get those creative 
wheels cranking for your home-cooked meals.
produce
Fresh herbs: Get acquainted with fresh herbs. A 
sprinkle of chopped dill or thyme will make simple 
dishes special and leftovers taste fresh again. To avoid 
a big batch going bad, try this trick: Pick out one herb on Sunday and then use that bunch all week long, in your vegetables, in your savory mains, and even your 
desserts. Use the chosen herb in both traditional 
and wacky ways, where it belongs and where it has 
no business hanging out. You’ll not only keep those 
taste buds on high alert (parsley and peas), but you 
may even discover a new favorite flavor combination 
(thyme and lime sugar cookies!).Fruit: When you think of fruit, think of possibilities 
other than sweet snacks or desserts. Fruit makes a 
great companion for savory entrées. When roasted or sautéed, fruit adds a surprising layer of flavor to meat, pasta, and side dishes. Cherries, pears, and peaches 
play well with roasted vegetables. Roasted lemons 
perk up a simple roasted chicken. Oven-broiled grapes make a rich topping for noodles or provide a twist on 
traditional bruschetta spread.Mushrooms: Stock up on mushrooms. They are a rich 
source of natural umami, with no salt or sodium to 
speak of. Whether you need to make a quick, earthy 
stock or increase the meaty oomph of a risotto or stew, mushrooms will help get the job done while 
maintaining a low-sodium approach.
Try something new: When you see a vegetable or a fruit you don’t recognize, add it to your basket, go home and look it up on the Internet, and discover what you can 
make with it. By learning to use unfamiliar ingredients, 
you’ll become more flexible in your cooking. You’ll get more playful as well, confidently substituting what you 
have on hand (celery root and fennel) for what a recipe 
lists (onions and potatoes). Most important, you’ll start surprising your palate, which is the easiest way to keep yourself from missing the salt. So grab that scary 
looking thing and give it a go!
snacks and cereals
Salt-free potato chips, tortilla chips, and wheat 
flakes make great snacking staples in your kitchen 
cupboards and office desk drawers. They also make 
great swaps for bread crumbs, whether you’re topping a casserole or coating a chicken breast. Buy some for midday or game-day cravings, and then keep some on 
hand for last-minute bread-crumb emergencies.78  :  LOW-SO GOODStoring and Saving Herbs
Herbs can be hard. Herbs can be soft. And when not 
stored properly, herbs can go bad. But with good 
storage technique (and a few tricks), you can make 
those herbs last.
I like to place soft herbs (a.k.a. any herbs with a 
soft stem) in a canning jar or a glass with a bit of water to keep them fresh. Basil keeps best at room 
temperature and the others (like mint, parsley, and 
cilantro) keep well in the refrigerator. Just make sure to change out the water every few days and they 
should stay perky for about a week. When kept like 
this, they also look mighty nice on your counter when you’re prepping dinner or hosting a party. You can also store soft herbs by wrapping the stems in a damp 
paper towel, placing in a plastic bag, and then into the 
refrigerator. Because soft herbs bruise easily, only rinse them right before you use them. A quick plunge 
into a bowl of water will do the trick. Then dry them 
with the help of a dry cloth or paper towel.
For hard herbs (like rosemary and thyme, or any herbs 
with woody stems), keep them fresh by wrapping them in a damp paper towel, placing in a plastic bag, 
and, putting them in the fridge.Although you can extend the life of harder herbs 
by drying them upside down in a warm, dry place, another handy way to preserve them is by chopping 
them up, putting them in ice-cube trays, and covering 
them with olive oil or leftover salt-free broth. Once frozen, wrap the herb cubes in plastic wrap, put in an airtight plastic bag, and then return to the freezer. 
Pop out the cubes when making a simple vegetable 
sauté or as the base of your next soup, sauce, or pesto. 
If you want to freeze softer herbs, purée them first in the blender with a little garlic and onion, and follow 
the same procedure for freezing and storage.ShOP  :  79MAX FALKOWITZ  
TALKS CHILES
Before becoming a national editor at SeriousEats.com, Max Falkowitz was simply  
a hunter—a spice hunter. He’s responsible for the Spice Hunting articles on the website, 
where he explores the world of flavor beyond salt and pepper (although he dug into that, 
too), educating fellow eaters on how to find and use different seeds, blends, and  
pastes to their cooking advantage. Here, he guides us through a lesson on one of  
low-sodium’s most robust flavor-makers: chiles, fresh and dried.
Modern supermarkets might offer dozens of varieties 
of fresh and dried chile peppers, but with little infor -
mation about how they differ. Here are some pointers 
to help you navigate the selection.
fresh
Generally speaking, smaller chiles are spicier than larger ones, and green, unripe chiles pack more punch 
than ripe, red versions. (Noteworthy exceptions 
include the nuclear-hot orange habanero and Scotch 
Bonnet peppers.) Green chiles tend toward grassy, 
pungent flavors, while red, yellow, and orange chiles 
tend to taste more sweet and fruity. When shopping 
for fresh chiles, look for smooth, glossy skin and a firm, crisp texture. Old, wrinkled, leathery chiles pack heat 
but lack a certain fresh flavor. Don’t confuse little white 
notches in chiles, like jalapeños, as signs of age; they’re 
a natural imperfection that’s only skin-deep.
dried
Chiles are fruit, so it helps to think of dried chiles as 
raisins, not spices. So, dried chiles should be moist and 
pliable, indicating that they’re fresh and full flavored. 
The older a dried chile gets, the drier it becomes, and the more flavor it gives up to moisture loss and 
vaporization of its essential oils. Chiles are typically 
dried in late summer, so your best bet for fresh dried 
chiles is late August and early autumn. If all you can 
find are brittle, papery dried chiles, an all-too-common 
problem once you move away from the American 
Southwest, consider visiting a Latin American grocery or ordering chiles online from specialty merchants.
To get the most out of your whole dried chiles, cut them 
open, take out the seeds, and toast them briefly in a hot, 
dry pan until they smell aromatic. Then roughly chop 
them and grind them in a spice grinder or, better yet, 
soak them in some boiling water or stock for 20 minutes, 
drain well, and purée them in the blender until smooth. 
Voilà! You’ve just made your own fresh chile paste.80  :  LOW-SO GOODLesson Three: Make Friends
You are now a low-sodium master of the aisles and the products on the shelves. 
With everything you’ve learned, you’re a grocery-store expert. You know what low-
sodium items you love and where to find them. With all this knowledge, it’s time to 
(charmingly) pass it on. Get to know the people who stock the shelves and the person behind the meat counter. Which brings us to shopping-skill number-three: Say hi.
It’s that easy. Say hello to the people who work in 
the store. Strike up a conversation with the butcher 
or the bagger. Ask them how they like to cook pork 
butt or if they’ve tasted the plump strawberries that just arrived. Let them know how much you love the low-sodium steak marinade on their shelves. Or tell 
them about the stuffing you’re making with the salt-
free bread they carry. And before you know it, they’ll be trading their kitchen secrets, showing you the latest 
low-sodium items on the shelves, and saying hi, too.
Here’s what’s really wonderful about this whole 
“relationship with your grocery store” thing. Let’s say 
there’s a brand of salt-free potato chips, sodium-free 
baking powder, or low-sodium turkey meat that you heard about. You can now ask your new buddy, the store manager, to carry it for you. The worst they can 
say is no and the best they can do is start a whole 
low-sodium aisle. And wouldn’t that be fabulous? You never know how many other people shopping in this same store need low-sodium items. If you’re ner-
vous about being forward, remember, getting chatty is 
good. By starting the conversation with a “Hi!” you’ll make sure others start to enjoy the grocery store as much as you do.ShOP  :  81Lesson Four: Where to Shop
Now that you know how to shop, let’s talk about where to shop. Your closest market 
may be down the block or an hour’s drive. You may have multiple kinds of markets to 
choose from or just one grocery store in town. Whether you make a special monthly 
trip, shop daily, or make your purchases with the help of the Internet, there are plenty of places where you can purchase fresh, healthful, low-sodium ingredients.
butcher shops
Nothing beats the personal interaction you get with 
a real butcher. Ask questions about the meat or fish, 
how it was processed, and how to cook it. Best of all, if 
you’re looking for something really specific (heritage, brine-free turkeys or thinly sliced pork belly), most butchers are more than happy to take special orders.
farmers’ markets
If you want the freshest produce, look no farther than your local farmers’ market. Use websites like the 
USDA Farmers Market Directory (search.ams.usda  
.gov/farmersmarkets) or Eat Well Guide (eatwellguide  
.org) to find the one closest to you. (Eat Well Guide 
even has a trip planner, so you can find sustainable 
foods while you’re on the road!) Download apps, like 
Farmstand, that will find a market near you. Or try Eat Wild (eatwild.com) to discover a list of local farms 
and ranches in your area offering grass-fed meat and 
dairy. Use your time with the farmers to learn more about unusual produce as well as which fruits and vegetables are in season. So remember, if the market 
requires a special trip, make that trip special.
health food stores
Health food stores will be your best bet for specialty 
products (in addition to the Internet). Many health food 
stores have bulk bins for grains, flours, nuts, and dried fruit, so you can purchase and try small amounts of new 
ingredients before diving in with a big bag of the stuff.
international markets
Just like exploring new countries, taking a trip to an international market will introduce you to new foods 
(like lychee or dragon fruit), unique flavors (bonito 
flakes and tamarind paste), and unfamiliar products (black garlic and paneer cheese). Be sure to buy items with a label marking them as low in sodium and MSG-
free. If no label exists or you feel unsure, look online 
for the company’s website and a consumer help line to find out the nutritional information.
spice stores
Today there are whole stores dedicated to spices, includ-ing salt-free spices. Most of them also allow you to pick 
the amount of spices you want to buy, which, like with 
bulk-bin items, lets you start small as your palate grows.
the world wide web
The easiest way to find low-sodium products is from the comfort of your computer. A quick Google search 
or the URL of a company’s website will let you order 
your favorite pantry staples at the click of a button. Or further research the nutritional and processing infor-mation, if you’re having trouble finding it on the label.5
DIY
Finding Lower-Sodium  
SolutionsDIY  :  83
DIY  :  83
 e have flown to the moon. Crossbred 
apricots with plums. Developed self-
driving cars. Anything is possible. This applies  
to low-sodium cooking as well. The next time 
you come up against a high-sodium-food 
stumbling block, do not despair; channel that 
same innovative and DIY spirit. 
Throughout this book, I talk a lot about 
creativity as a secret weapon in low-so cooking, and it’s time that we hone this skill. Because whether you crave Canadian bacon 
or get stuck in a food rut, it’s always possible 
(and sometimes best) to take matters into your own hands and DIY a low-so solution. In this chapter you will learn to make over recipes, make up recipes, and make everyday 
meals taste fantastic—all on your own. 
By the end of this book, you’ll not only be able 
to put many of the foods you love back into your life but you’ll also start seeing your low-
sodium diet less as an ingredient “handicap” 
and more as the ultimate creative license.  
You’ll infuse standard recipes with more  
spices and spunk. You’ll teach humble ingre -
dients (like cucumber) new tricks (cucumber baguettes!). You’ll become a resource for friends with other special diets, and you’ll 
even make salt-free bacon. In sum, with fine-
tuned DIY skills, you’ll be low-so unstoppable.W84  :  LOW-SO GOODFinding low-so Substitutes
If there is something you miss eating, turn on those creative engines; you have the 
power and the tools to give any dish a successful low-sodium makeover.  
In my first book, I outlined my formula for “salt-free-
ing” any recipe. Of all the steps, finding the right 
low-so substitute takes the most effort. This is why 
I’ve created a list of my favorites for you to reference when you make over recipes on your own. While many of the substitutes will look or taste different from the 
original ingredient, give even the craziest-  sounding  
ones a chance. Often, they will not only satisfy crav-ings, but also increase the flavor and nutritional 
value of a recipe, and sometimes even cut down on  
prep time.
If you find something missing from this list, however, 
remember to use the Internet, television, the cook-
books on your shelf, and the grocery store for inspi-ration. Look to other special diets, too. If you need to replace prepared wheat-based products, check out 
Paleo and gluten-free resources; if you need to replace 
something cheesy, look to vegan and dairy-free cook-books and blogs; if you need to replace cured meats, 
look to vegetarian and raw diets for easy stand-ins. 
Test these substitutes and then keep adjusting until 
you really like what you’re eating. Does the dish need 
more texture? Add something crunchy. Are all the 
ingredients green? Add something bright and color-ful. Do you miss the salt? Add a spritz of lime, some chopped fresh herbs, or a spice you’ve never used 
before. Over time, you’ll not only have a low-so suc-
cess story, but a DIY signature dish—one created with your own flavors, your own spin, your own personality.anchovies
If you want to make a Caesar dressing, a fishy pizza, or seafood pâté, replace the high-sodium anchovies with 
lower-sodium canned sardines.
bacon
Using sliced pork belly, you can make a salt-free alter-
nate bacon that looks and tastes insanely similar to 
the heavenly salty stuff. My genius sister-in-law is 
100 percent responsible for this recipe (see Salt-Free 
Bacon, page  93). Thanks to her perseverance and 
many trials, she figured out how to get that crispy tex -
ture and smoky flavor your taste buds want, without 
the salt.
bacon, canadian
When making your next eggs Benedict, skip the pork 
and instead layer poached eggs and creamy hollan -
daise over rounds of roasted sweet potatoes or beets; 
grilled peach or nectarine halves; or a thick slice of 
heirloom tomato. Give it an extra bacon-like flavor 
with a blend of oil and the spices used in Salt-Free Bacon (page 93).
bagels
Get a doughnut pan and use it to make fake baked low-sodium bagels using a savory batter. You can 
use a spice mix (like the one in Everything Waffles, 
page  211) for seasoning.DIY  :  85bread and buns
According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), 
bread is one of the top sodium culprits, with 80  to  
230 mg of sodium per slice. When you consider 
breakfast and sandwiches and snacks before dinner, 
this can quickly add up throughout the day. So while 
no-salt-added bread exists (and when it’s toasted, it 
isn’t half bad), use this as an excuse to think outside of the bread box. Wrap your next sandwich in corn tortillas or sturdy leafy greens. And for burgers, use 
large cabbage leaves or a grilled portobello mushroom.
bread crumbs
When you don’t have low-sodium bread at home, 
there are several options for a quick bread-crumbs 
substitute. For meatballs and burgers that need 
extra bulk, replace the bread crumbs with finely chopped cauliflower, ground salt-free tortilla chips, 
cooked rice, or cooked quinoa. For casseroles and 
baked pastas, top with crushed nuts. Or mix finely 
chopped broccoli with oil and a little cornmeal. Then 
broil for the final 3  to 5  minutes of cooking until 
browned and crispy.
broth
When a recipe calls for this high-sodium ingredient, whip up some quick mushroom broth. After only 
30 minutes of boiling dried or fresh fungi, you’ll end 
up with an earthy stock filled with natural salt-free umami flavor. The broth is perfect as a low-sodium 
base for soups, stews, and stuffing. But if you want 
that traditional flavor, use chicken bones (or meat) and aromatics (like herbs, onions, and garlic) to make a big batch of broth from scratch. For easy 
use, freeze 2- to 4-cup [480- to 960-ml] portions in  
 individual airtight containers. Or, boil some chicken 
on Sunday for workweek lunches and use the boiling liquid as broth, refrigerating or freezing as needed.
Broth Substitutes
Most of the time, when a recipe calls for broth, I just use water and a lot of spices in its place. But if you are 
looking for more oomph, use a combination of water 
and the following easy flavor enhancers.
Fresh vegetable leftovers, like corn cobs, fennel 
fronds, or chard stems:
 Boil in water for 30  minut es 
and use in any recipe that calls for a vegetable broth.
Jam and dried fruit: Use water in place of broth and 
add 2  or 3  Tbsp apricot jam or 1/4 to  1/2 cup [85  t o 170  g]  
chopped dried peaches or apricots to the pot for 
extra flavor. Works well for pulled chicken and pork, 
Moroccan- and Indian-inspired stews and curries, and 
anything with tomatoes.
Orange juice: Replace the broth with half citrus juice 
and half water. Works well for risotto, chili, pulled pork, and chicken.
Red or White Wine: Replace the broth in a recipe 
with water and add 
1/4 to  1/2 cup [60  t o 120  ml ] wine. 
Red’s deep, earthy flavors add richness to meaty pasta 
sauces and beef stews. White’s extra acidity helps 
brighten risottos or slow-cooked chicken or pork. 
Tomatoes (no-salt-added sauce or fresh-cut 
tomatoes): Replace the broth with half water and half tomato sauce or a large juicy chopped tomato. Works well for curries; Moroccan- and Indian-inspired stews; 
pasta sauces; and pulled pork, chicken, and beef.86  :  LOW-SO GOODcrab dip, crab cakes, and 
lobster rolls
Impersonate high-sodium crab and lobster meat with 
other low-sodium fish. Cook, shred, and spice tilapia 
and snapper for dips. Make cakes out of salmon and 
cod. And fill homemade low-sodium buns with chunky halibut and your own spiced-up mayo for a take on New England’s famous fish sandwich.
crackers
You can find round rice crackers with 0 mg of sodium at the grocery store. For emergency appetizer situ-
ations, I always have matzo crackers on hand. They 
even work for nachos if you need them to. But any-thing crispy will do when you need something for your spreads. Cucumbers and apples make a satisfying 
wheat-free substitute.
creamy cheese
When your pasta or quesadilla needs something 
creamy to bring it all together, try puréed butter-
nut squash or pumpkin; puréed cauliflower; yogurt 
or mascarpone; low-sodium ricotta or low-sodium 
 cottage cheese (look for brands with less than 60 mg 
of sodium per 1/4-cup [55-g] serving).
creamy sauces
Puréed pumpkin, butternut squash, or cauliflower makes a tasty sauce for faux mac ’n’ cheese or casse-
roles. And puréed corn is awesome for chicken pot pie 
filling and as a dairy-free enchilada sauce.dine-out dressing
Make a simple vinaigrette by mixing olive oil, vinegar, 
and citrus (see The MacGyver Vinaigrette, page  11 9), 
plus spices of your choice in a small jar. Put the jar in a resealable plastic bag and take it with you to the 
restaurant.
hot dogs
Replace traditional high-sodium franks with roasted carrots or try low-so and vegetarian “squash dogs.” Buy hot dog–shaped zucchini or squash and halve 
lengthwise. Add your own low-so marinade and spices, and grill on the flat side of the vegetable. Put 
the squash halves back together and nestle into a bun 
(if you can handle the sodium in bread). Otherwise, wrap in a lettuce leaf and top with low-s0 versions of typical hot dog fare (onions, mustard, low-so pickles).
instant pizza dough
Today, you can buy low-sodium pizza dough in the grocery store and online. But when you don’t have it in 
your pantry, use toasted corn tortillas as a flatbread-  
like substitute or the crust from quick and crispy 
Chickpea-Flour Pizza (page  9 4). You can also make 
fresh dough and spreads from scratch (see page  257).  
Or go a totally different route by making potatoes, 
eggplant, zucchini, or winter squash and then topping 
them with red sauce, seasoned ground meat, and other 
low-sodium pizza fare.DIY  :  87
mayonnaise
Most mayonnaise contains more than 100  mg of 
sodium per 1  Tbsp , so a hearty slather can quickly 
become a high-sodium event. Here are a few low-  
sodium options. Soy-based yogurt is quite low 
in sodium and has just the right creaminess for 
coleslaws, chicken salads, and sandwich spreads. Sodium-free silken tofu, when blended with salt-free garlic powder and other tasty spices, makes an easy 
homemade option. Certain hemp seed oil–based may-
onnaise products have only 5 mg of sodium per 1 tsp and have been showing up on grocery store shelves 
lately. Or make Sauce Gribiche (page  166) and call it 
a day.
milk
Most milks, including nut, hemp, and soy, can con-
tain upward of 100  mg of sodium per 1  cup [240  ml].  
This may fit within most people’s dietary limits, but it can quickly add up throughout the day. If you’re 
looking for a lower-sodium switch, coconut milk (now 
in handy cartons) works well for cereal, curries, and even your morning cup of joe.
olives
When your next pasta, Greek salad, or cheese plate calls for the tang of olives, look no farther than baked 
or pickled grapes and Pickled Cherries (page  249)  
to take their place. They’re not salty and they aren’t olives, but they’ll add a fun and unexpected twist to 
traditional olive-rich dishes.parmesan cheese
Take a page from vegan friends and get your hands on 
nutritional yeast, a deactivated yeast that is sold in 
health food stores as flakes or in powder form. Sprin-
kle it on popcorn, mix it into this year’s Thanksgiving mash, or knead it right into homemade pizza dough for a familiar zesty kick.
pickles
Amazingly, the flavor we associate with pickles is not just salt; it’s really the vinegar and strong spices. You 
can take any quick pickle recipe, lose the salt, and 
replace it with other flavors, vinegars, and produce to create a low-sodium version of your own with the zing you crave. When the pickles are gone, repurpose the 
juice in your next vinaigrette, coleslaw, or egg salad.
quick pie crusts
In place of high-sodium prepared pie crusts, simply 
crumble matzo crackers (or sodium-free cookies) 
and mix with salt-free butter, sugar, and warm baking 
spices like cinnamon, pumpkin pie spice, and carda-mom. Or make mini tarts shells using coconut flakes 
(see Macaroon Custard Tarts, page  225). Or savory 
quiche crusts with grated potatoes (see Mini Hash 
Brown Quiches,  page 208).
sausage
Simply mix ground meat (turkey, chicken, pork) with salt-free seasonings, form into patties, and brown. 
Or use aluminum foil to roll the seasoned meat into 
a sausage shape and then bake and slice. Or skip the shaping and just brown the seasoned meat in a pan and sprinkle on pastas and eggs.88  :  LOW-SO GOODshredded cheese
To give your bowl of chili or plate of quesadillas that 
“stringy cheese” texture, add in grated carrots or 
 zucchini ribbons, or grated butternut squash (see 
Lemon Chicken Orzo, page  17 2).
sour cream and cream cheese
Unlike most sour-tasting dairy products, Greek yogurt gives you the tang without the high sodium, averaging 
60 mg per 6-oz [170-g] container. It makes a perfect 
topper for tacos, spread for crackers, or creamy base for dips.
soy, miso, and teriyaki sauces
A simple mixture of molasses plus rice wine vinegar plus salt-free garlic powder makes a nice stand-in for 
soy sauce. For a thicker sauce, try adding dark berry 
jam and/or molasses.
steak sauce
Make a quick sauce by boiling jam plus salt-free garlic powder and a splash of apple cider vinegar or 
balsamic vinegar in a saucepan for a few minutes over 
medium-high heat, stirring constantly. Turn the heat to low, and let the mixture reduce until it reaches a thickness of your liking. Then pour it over steak. You 
can always add some chopped tomatoes or a little 
no-salt-added tomato sauce for extra umami.tomato sauces
There’s good news and great news. The good news? Canned no-salt-added tomato sauce exists and there 
are many brands to choose from. Puréed pumpkin or 
sweet potato can be used to add easy and flavorful creaminess to homemade pasta and pizza sauces. The great news? It’s easy to give these ready-to-eat sauces 
some kick with your own herbs and seasonings. Start 
with a salt-free tomato (or pumpkin) base, and then give it a tasty makeover of your own creation.DIY  :  89
DENISE WOODWARD  
TALKS TACOS
We all have our simple, go-to, weeknight meals; a bowl of rice, a big plate of pasta,  
an egg frittata with random vegetables in the fridge. While these dishes are easy,  
eating them over and over again can get pretty boring. It’s refreshing to switch things 
up, not just for your taste buds but for your creativity muscles, too. Which is why these 
weeknight staples are the perfect canvas for flavor experiments. Each week, you  
should try something different and unexpected. And to get you started, Denise 
Woodward of ChezUs.com wants to talk tacos.
Tacos have become a staple in our home because not 
only are they easy to make but they’re as versatile as a 
recipe can be. All that’s required is a creative approach and hungry eaters! I start most of my taco recipes by 
using fresh, seasonal ingredients along with a basic 
concept—a protein, some onion, garlic, herbs, and 
tortillas. The toppings and seasonings are really what 
makes a taco a totally great taco. Following are a few  
of our favorite combinations.
banh mi pork
Pork tenderloin rubbed down with Chinese five-spice powder, then grilled and sliced, plus shredded napa 
cabbage, grated carrots, homemade hot sauce, sour 
cream, and a squeeze of fresh lime juice all served on 
corn tortillas.
grilled lime chicken
Chicken marinated in fresh lime juice and grilled, diced 
Fresno chiles, and chopped cilantro, served on corn 
tortillas with pineapple-corn salsa.grilled salmon
Salmon fillet strips lightly seasoned with olive oil, 
lemon zest, and black pepper, then grilled, with diced 
cherry tomatoes, thinly sliced purple cabbage, and 
mustard or horseradish-spiked Greek yogurt on flour 
tortillas.
greek style
Browned ground lamb, chopped oregano, diced 
tomatoes, thinly sliced romaine lettuce, sliced roasted 
red peppers, and Greek yogurt tzatziki sauce wrapped 
in a corn tortilla.
vegetarian
Cooked black beans with diced butternut squash, diced jalapeños, cucumber-tomato salsa, and cooling sour 
cream or yogurt served on corn tortillas.90  :  LOW-SO GOOD
RECIPE MAKEOVER MAD LIB: 
THE CASE OF THE SOS MEATBALLS
If you’re nervous about giving recipes a low-so twist, let’s practice on paper before heading 
to the pots and pans.
Remember Mad Libs? The short stories with a handful of adjectives, verbs, and proper nouns 
missing? Your job was to fill the empty spaces with words of your choosing. It was silly and fun. And it’s the perfect way to practice your low-so makeover skills. With salt, spices, and 
most of the other ingredients missing from the recipe, your job is to fill in the blanks. It’s 
totally okay to be creative. Actually, it’s encouraged. So let’s give it a go. And when you’re finished, you’ll have your first low-so recipe to try.
It’s 5:30 pm and you just found out that proper 	name 	of	friend  is in town and 
coming over for appetizers and drinks in an hour. With guests! Okay. Breathe. 
You’ve got this. Luckily, you already picked up a fresh 1⁄2 lb [230  g] of type 	of	
ground 	mea t from the store on the way home and you also have some fresh 
type 	of 	herb  from the neighbor’s backyard. Everything you need for last-
minute meatballs.
How are you going to make this dish sing, and sing fast? Open that fridge! Ah, 
perfect! You have garlic, onions, and an egg on hand. And there’s a bunch of 
type 	of 	ve getable  for added flavor, color, and healthful good stuff. For spices, 
your cabinet is full of options. Tonight, try something daring, with a dash of type 	
of	spice , type 	of 	spice , and type 	of 	spice . And of course, a few generous 
grinds of black pepper for good measure.
Now preheat the oven to 400ºF [200ºC]. Line a large baking sheet with parchment 
paper for easier cleanup. 
Throw three peeled cloves of garlic, a quarter of an onion (roughly chopped), a 
handful of the herb, and 1⁄4 cup [30  g] of the vegetable (chopped) into the food 
processor (or blender) and pulse until you get a fine dice. Add 1⁄2 cup [55  g] of DIY  :  91
leftover cooked grain  and pulse again until combined. Transfer the mixture to a 
medium bowl. Then add 1  beaten egg, the ground meat, and the spices. Use your 
hands to mix everything together. Pinch off some of the meat mixture and roll 
between your palms, making golf ball–size meatballs (12 to 14). Place them on 
the prepared baking sheet with some space between them and bake for 20  to  
25 minutes , until cooked through and browned. The center of the meatballs 
should read 160ºF [70ºC] on a meat thermometer.
But you’re not quite finished. You can’t serve meatballs without sauce, right? 
Luckily you have a type 	of 	fr uit jam in the fridge. Mix 3⁄4 to 1 cup [255 to 340 g] 
of the fruit jam and 2  Tbsp of something 	with 	bite, 	like 	bal samic 	vine gar, 	
low-sodium 	hor seradish, 	or 	l ow-sodium 	mus tard . Season with some 
spices and stir until combined. Transfer the sauce to a small pan. Bring to a boil and then turn the heat to medium-low. Cook, stirring frequently, until the sauce 
starts to thicken, about 10 minutes. Pour the sauce into a few small dipping 
dishes.
When the meatballs are ready, transfer them to a clean serving dish. Sprinkle with 
some of the herb for a pop of color. Lay out small plates, toothpicks, napkins, the 
sauce, and, of course, those drinks.
Ding dong! Pat yourself on the back. Happy hour is ready and your guests have 
arrived. Now share that terrific dish you created on the fly.
note: Pescatarians, use 1/2 lb [230  g] cooked fish in place of the ground meat. Use two forks to break the 
fish apart into small flakes and use as you would the ground meat. Vegetarians, use 1  cup [260  g] no-salt-
added, ready-to-eat beans. Drain the beans and pulse in a food processor until chopped and chunky. Use the 
beans as you would the ground meat.DIY  :  93SALT-FREE BACON
As one blog reader put it, this is the Holy Grail of low-sodium cooking. To get your meat 
bacon-thin, ask your butcher to slice the pork belly for you or look for pre-sliced pork 
belly (it may be called “shabu-shabu pork”) often found at Asian grocery stores. You 
can also try cutting your own: Chill the pork belly in the freezer until firm (not frozen), about 20 minutes, and use a sharp knife to cut thin strips 
1/8 in [4  cm] thick. 
You can find liquid smoke at your grocery store, or substitute a mixture of 2  tsp 
molasses, 2  tsp apple cider vinegar, and 1  pinch of smoked paprika. 
 Makes   16 to 18 bacon slices    Time   1 hour, 30 minutes
1 lb [455 g] pork belly, sliced 
1/8 in [4 mm] thick
2 Tbsp plus 2 tsp maple syrup
4 tsp liquid smoke
2 tsp smoked paprika
1 tsp ground cumin
1 to 2 tsp freshly ground 
black pepperPreheat the oven to 200°F [95°C]. Cover two or three baking 
pans with aluminum foil and put wire cooling racks on top. Line 
a plate with paper towels and set aside. 
Use kitchen shears (or a very sharp knife) to remove the top, 
thick layer of skin on the pork belly. (Whether you buy whole or 
sliced pork belly, it usually still has a layer of skin on it.)
Place the pork belly slices on the racks in the prepared baking 
pans, being careful not to crowd. 
In a small bowl, stir together the maple syrup and liquid smoke. 
In a separate bowl, combine the paprika, cumin, and pepper. Using a pastry brush, coat both sides of the pork belly slices 
with the maple syrup mixture. Sprinkle the spice mixture on one 
side of the slices. Roast for 1  hour .
In a large skillet, fry a few bacon slices at a time over medium-
high heat until they start to look crispy, about 2  minutes on 
each side. Using tongs, remove the bacon from the skillet and 
place on the prepared plate. Repeat until all the bacon is fried. 
Drain the fat from the skillet as needed between batches. Serve 
immediately, or store in an airtight container in the refrigerator 
for up to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 3  months .94  :  LOW-SO GOOD
CHICKPEA-FLOUR PIZZA
 Makes   One 10-in [25-cm] pizza   Time   25 minutes
1 cup [100 g] chickpea (a.k.a. 
garbanzo bean) flour
1/2 to 1 cup [120 to 240 ml] 
warm water
2 Tbsp chopped fresh herbs 
(rosemary, cilantro, parsley, or dill) 
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 tsp olive oil or vegetable oil
SPREAD
Harissa Hot Sauce (page  164),  
Roasted Fig and Tomato Slow  
Jam (page  162), flatbread  
spreads (see pages  259–260)
EXTRA TOPPINGS
fresh herbs, raw corn  
kernels, cooked sliced  
onions, browned mushroomsIn a medium bowl, using a silicone spatula or wooden spoon, 
mix the chickpea flour with 1/2 cup [120  ml] of the warm water, 
the herbs, garlic powder, and pepper. Slowly add an additional 
1/4 to 1/2 cup [60  to 120  ml] water and stir until you have a thick, 
pancake-like batter. Let sit for 10  minutes .
Preheat the broiler.
If the batter has thickened too much, add a little water to restore 
the pancake batter consistency.
In a 10-in [25-cm] ovenproof sauté pan or skillet, heat the olive 
oil over medium-high heat. Pour the batter into the pan and use 
a clean silicone spatula to spread out to the edge. Cook for 2  to  
3 minutes , until the edge begins to brown. Place the pan on the 
middle rack in the oven and broil for 4  to 5  minutes , until golden 
brown and set.
Using oven mitts, carefully remove the pan. Spread your chosen 
spread and extra toppings onto the pizza crust. Return to the 
oven for 2  to 3  minutes longer, until the toppings are warmed 
through. Slice and serve.DIY  :  95
GABY DALKIN  
TALKS AVOCADOS
She may not be on a low-sodium diet, but Gaby Dalkin, founder of  
WhatsGabyCooking.com and author of Absolutely Avocados, is an expert  
when it comes to awesome food substitutions—of the avocado persuasion.  
Turns out, avocados make the perfect swap for certain high-sodium ingredients  
and add an element of surprise to simple recipes (like baked goods and even drinks).  
So read these avocado tips, use them as a lesson in ingredient potential,  
and start seeing your favorite green fruit in a whole new light.
I’ve been obsessed with avocados for as long as I 
can remember. They are hands down one of my 
favorite things to eat, plus they are loaded with tons of vitamins and minerals and healthful fats that our 
bodies crave. Ever since writing a cookbook featuring 
this superfood, I’ve been using avocados in fun ways 
to jazz up my meals. +First: Avocados can be used in place of butter when 
it comes to baking! Sounds crazy, right? It’s not! It’s 
so good and it adds an extra-creamy consistency to 
whatever you’re making.
 +Second: Forget the mayo. Replace it with some mashed-up avocado to make a seriously healthful 
swap. Plus you’re adding extra flavor to your sandwich 
or wrap.
 +Third: Use it in a salad dressing. Do you love that creamy consistency of ranch or Caesar dressing? Use 
avocado to make a creamy vinaigrette, and I promise 
you’ll never miss the store-bought bottled stuff.
 +And last, but certainly not least: Use it in smoothies. Avocados lend themselves well to 
smoothies because they’ll take on the flavor of 
whatever fruits you’re using and give you that smooth texture you want.
Bottom line is, avocados are awesome in pretty much 
anything, even chocolate chip cookies.96  :  LOW-SO GOOD
DIY  :  97Gardening: The Ultimate DIY
One of the ultimate taste enhancers doesn’t come from a bottle or your refrigerator 
or even the grill. It comes from your own two hands. When you’ve rolled up those 
sleeves, put time and energy into making something not just from scratch but from 
seed, the final product will prove infinitely more enjoyable than anything from plastic wrap or a microwave oven. 
Having a garden, of any shape or type, is an awesome 
addition to your low-sodium tool kit. Before you can 
say, “But I don’t have room for a garden!” let me say 
this: Even if you only have space for a small herb plant on your windowsill, adding a pinch of basil that you grew will add a pinch of pride to every bite. It’s worth 
it. Plus, the next time you attend a party, skip the 
flowers and give the host or hostess a colorful bou-quet of chard or carrots or anythig fresh from your 
garden. Now that’s impressive. Get ready to not just 
make your own food, but grow it too. And make the 
most of what Mama Nature provides.To make more of your space:
 +Consult gardening books and websites for easy 
solutions for growing edibles almost anywhere.
 +Consult location and seasonal guides so that you plant appropriate herbs and vegetables for your region.
 +Sign up for a community garden plot or volunteer at local and urban farms.
 +Create a garden exchange with neighbors, with each of you planting something different.6
Dine
Eating Well Beyond Your StoveDINe  :  99
DINe  :  99
e don’t just eat because food tastes 
good, we eat because of the social 
fun that comes with Sunday brunches, Happy 
Hour gatherings, and romantic evenings spent 
sharing the same spaghetti noodle.
For anyone with special diet needs, these 
eating experiences and dining outside the 
home pose all sorts of new challenges. 
Mealtime no longer just involves picking the right spice blends or the right ingredients. It means picking the right restaurant, the right menu, and the right approach to ordering. Oh, 
and maybe the right date partner, too.
Sound overwhelming? Well, just like when you 
dine by yourself or in your home, by having 
some creative tools in your pocket (literally) 
and solid knowledge in your head, you can successfully order out and make memories at tables besides your own. In other words, you will be able to enjoy the social fun of food without always hosting the party or opening 
your own restaurant.W100  :  LOW-SO GOODRestaurant Rules + tools
Being able to eat out safely is an essential part of enjoying a low-so life. Both on my blog 
and in my first book, I outline the basic dining rules that help you avoid high-sodium 
meals and form great relationships with your favorite restaurants—communication  
and gratitude are key! 
But what about when you want to be spontaneous? 
When you make last-minute reservations or end up at 
a restaurant of someone else’s choosing, with no time 
to research or call ahead? With the following tips, it’s completely possible to expand your eating experi-ences and take dining risks, all while staying low-so. 
carry your card
When I land unexpectedly at a restaurant, it can be nerve-racking for both me and the unprepared chef. 
But by having a small, laminated dietary card in my 
bag at all times, I am able to eat low-so and on-the-fly. Even without calling ahead, this card lets me give the kitchen all the information they need to feel inspired 
instead of scared. It is divided into two sections, what 
to avoid and what to use. It also includes my other personal food needs (I am allergic to salmon and 
nuts). By handing it to the waiter, I can order effort-
lessly and pass on my food needs to the chef without any misunderstandings or mistranslations.
use opentable.com
This website lets you make reservations online as well as read reviews and peruse menus. It also lets 
you save your list of dietary needs in your account. 
That way, when you book a table last minute, your virtual dietary card will be automatically passed on to the staff, so they know how to best prepare for your arrival, even if that’s happening in 30 minutes.
be daring
Even when low-so dining seems impossible, creativity plus determination equals possibilities. So when you 
do end up unexpectedly at, say, a pizza restaurant 
with friends, don’t settle for a glass of water. Ask to speak with the manager. Explain your situation and your dietary needs, and see what he or she can do for 
you. Who knows—your low-so dish may be so good 
that it ends up on the menu. The same rules apply for restaurants where communication can be difficult. If 
you have a friend with you who speaks the language, 
great. If not, use the technology tips on page 139 and let your phone translate your dietary card, ask ques-tions about the menu, and order for you. 
fresh is best
If you do have a choice between grabbing a meal at a fast-food joint or a sit-down restaurant, go with the 
second option. A restaurant that cooks-to-order will 
more likely have fresh ingredients on hand and be able to prepare a low-sodium dish. However, be aware DINe  :  101that even “nice” restaurants may use sodium-  filled  
packaged vegetables and legumes such as beans, 
corn, tomatoes, and spinach, especially when the 
ingredients are not in season. Always ask a server 
if vegetables are fresh or from a package or can. And remember best bets for unsalted food or easily adjusted dishes usually include:
 +Vegetable-heavy salads (ask for dressing on the side)
 +Eggs, made to order (try fried, scrambled, or poached)
 +Fresh fish (not breaded or seasoned)
 +Steaks (unseasoned and not pre-marinated)
 +Pasta (cooked in unsalted water)
 +Fresh vegetables (grilled, steamed, or sautéed)
check yelp
Filled with user-generated reviews, this website helps you discover which restaurants will be flexible and 
friendly when it comes to your dietary needs. Use 
keywords like “low-sodium” or “allergy,” and “accom-modating” to search for restaurants willing to make special changes for you.
take over the kitchen
Not literally, of course. But with your cooking know-how, you can convert any menu options from none to 
not-too-shabby. For example, let’s say, at first glance, it 
seems you can only eat a simple green salad. But using 
your own creativity, you may be able to  customize that 
lettuce with other flavor-packed ingredients found on the menu (citrus, avocado) or textural additions 
(poached egg, nuts). Think of the menu as a key to 
what they have available in the kitchen. 
travel spice
Pack a little flavor in your bag. Put a mixture of your favorite basic spices/herbs in a spice jar and keep it 
with you. That way, you can enhance even the sim-
plest meal.
pull the alarm
Sometimes even with all your low-so tricks and communication skills, you may be served food that 
tastes salty. Don’t eat it out of embarrassment or to 
be polite. Put the fork down, and have a friend give it a taste. If it’s agreed the order just doesn’t seem right, send it back. Honestly, it’s better to be upfront, 
get something you can eat, and deal with a potentially 
disgruntled waiter than to have health complications.
beyond the table
There are endless ways to have memorable food expe-riences besides dining at a restaurant or a friend’s 
house. If you want to be spontaneous but skip the 
restaurant, go on a farm tour or a berry-picking adven-ture, or set aside an afternoon to stroll around a local farmers’ market selecting foods for lunch or dinner 
at home. These activities will make the before-dinner 
prep work the best part of the meal.102  :  LOW-SO GOODmenu iq
Whether you make a reservation ahead of time or find 
a spot last-minute, you must understand the words 
on a menu to make smart, low-so dining choices. 
And while you may have mastered the more obvious salty keywords—like brined, cured, and pickled—use 
this list to avoid less-common, trickier terminology. 
Remember, anytime you come across something unfa-
miliar, just ask your waiter for more information. The more you understand professional cooking lingo, the 
more sodium-savvy you will be.
au	gr atin 	This term refers to a baked dish (most 
famously with potatoes) that is traditionally topped with seasoned bread crumbs and cheese. 
battered 	and 	breaded 	These terms usually 
mean ingredients have been coated in bread crumbs 
or a batter, which most likely has been salted and 
seasoned.
blackened 	or 	cr usted 	These terms usually 
refer to a (typically salty) spice blend that gets rubbed on fish or meat before being cooked.
charcuterie 	This refers to cured, smoked, and 
preserved meats as well as sausages.
confit 	This is a culinary technique in which meat 
is cooked and preserved in its own fat. The process often begins by seasoning the meat with salt.en	cr oute 	Here, an ingredient (such as salmon) 
will get wrapped and baked in a pastry crust, which often contains the hidden sodium. 
fleur 	de 	sel 	This is a very rare, expensive, fancy 
sea salt.
frico 	This is a cracker made from baked Parmesan.
jus	A sauce that often accompanies meat (or meaty 
sandwiches) made from pan drippings that get deglazed with (most likely salted) stock.
marinated 	This term means the ingredients—
meats or vegetables—have previously been soaked in a seasoned liquid.
roe 	Hard or soft, black and red, roe refers to tiny 
fish eggs. Although raw roe is quite low in sodium 
(26 mg sodium per 1 oz [30 g]), most roe gets salted, 
including the more familiar caviar. 
salata 	This is the Italian word for “salted.”
tapenade 	This paste-like spread usually contains 
pureed or finely chopped olives, capers, and some-times anchovies, as well as salt.DINe  :  103Special-Diet Dating
Dining out on first dates can present anxieties: What should I wear? Where will we go? 
And if you’re on a special diet, there’s one more consideration: How and when will you 
tell your date about your food needs?
I won’t pretend that this subject isn’t a big deal. And 
bringing up your special diet at a first meal together 
can mean getting into deeper topics. Like everything 
else with a special diet, it took time (and many dates) to learn how to date with dietary needs. I quickly 
found out, though, that by being honest, I didn’t scare 
my suitors away. It forced me to be authentic, which 
is, no doubt, essential for building a relationship.
Eventually, I made my dietary needs a part of the first 
meeting. I figured, if someone couldn’t handle it, no wor-
ries, on to the next one. But if they could, what better indicator of a good teammate for dates (and dinners) 
to come. For dinner-dating stumbling blocks, I simply 
knocked them down with these solutions, one at a time.
pick the restaurant
Make a list of all the spots that will serve you and serve you well. When choosing a place to meet, take 
charge and book a reservation at one of your fail-safe 
spots—it’s a sign of independence.
order smart
Use that trusty laminated dietary card for a smooth ordering experience as well as to demonstrate your 
ingenuity.spill the beans
Don’t shy away from discussing food needs or health 
issues. Show off your strength and bravery. Use this 
opportunity to start teaching your date about your 
low-so life and expertise.
make a date
Plan a “practice” dinner date with a friend or a loved one, and invite your special diet to come along. The 
more you make your food needs part of your meals 
and your relationships, the more second nature it will become. And the better you’ll eat, love, and be loved.
play chef
Sometimes it’s easiest to skip the reservation and bring the restaurant home, with you and your date 
as the chefs. First, choose a recipe (or two!) to cook 
together; something hands-on such as Broccoli 
 Gnocchi with Lemon Cream Sauce (page 235) or Baked 
Dim Sum Dumplings (page 231) will provide entertain -
ment, interaction, and potential for adorable flour 
fights. Then, head to the store or market to gather 
ingredients. Put on some music, pour some wine (or mock-tails), and see what kind of wonderful magic (and dumplings) you two can make.104  :  LOW-SO GOODALEJANDRO FOUNG  
TALKS FIRST DATES
I once met a boy named Alejandro. According to his mother, he’d always been a  
self-proclaimed “trier of new things.” Which was really good for me. Because, very 
quickly, I fell in love with this boy. And even though my health and dietary needs 
posed challenges, by being honest (and enthusiastic) with him from the start, he 
adopted a similar attitude and approach to my low-sodium life. He saw all obstacles as 
opportunities to think beyond limits, get creative, and simply try new things.
I remember pretty clearly the first time I learned about 
Jess’s dietary restrictions. It happened while sitting 
in a park on our first date and she told me about her 
salt-free needs. After returning home and reflecting on what I was going to do for a second date, my first 
thought was, “Jeez, this is going to be difficult. If I can’t 
eat with her, what am I going to do with this girl?” But I 
put on my thinking cap and got to work. Step One was 
embracing the challenge head-on. I decided to cook. I planned a quick meal at home—chicken thighs with 
yellow curry and pepper, a side of bok choy, a drizzle of 
sesame oil—followed by a game of Scrabble. Although 
I lost at Scrabble, I sure won with the easy home-
cooked meal.Even though the dinner was simple, we were both impressed that with the right ingredients, two spices, 
and sesame oil, we could create something delicious 
and salt-free. And since that first meal together, I have fallen deeply in love with salt-free flavors (and Jess). 
Eight years later, I’ve noticed my palate has greatly 
expanded and I pick up on far more nuanced flavors  
in my food. 
While I still enjoy a good higher-sodium meal, like dim 
sum, cheese plates, and chorizo, I would never go back 
to my heavy-handed days of salting everything and 
anything without a thought. In fact, I’m still working 
on the same carton of kosher salt from 2007. Much like I hope you find with this book, in meeting Jess, I 
discovered a new and greater sense of taste.DINe  :  105
Guest Best Practices
Potlucks, picnics, and dinner parties—people love a good excuse to gather around 
food. But if this scenario causes you worry, consider this: It’s your perfect opportunity 
to not only involve friends in your special diet, but also to show them just how flavorful 
low-sodium food can be. Depending on your relationship with the host or hostess, following are some ideas for h0w you could do just that.
tips appreciated
Your relatives and best friends most likely already 
know about your dietary needs and may even be eager 
to try their hand at making special food for you. When 
you send that RSVP, ask if you can bring a dish or two. If they want to make everything themselves, including a meal for you, offer to help by sending recipe sugges-
tions and other low-sodium resources.
special delivery
For the host and hostess who wish to prepare a 
low-sodium meal, give them a bit of help by bringing 
special low-sodium products with you or by sending 
them ahead with the help of one of the many grocery delivery services available (see page 137).
take a course
To avoid having the busy host or hostess make an entire special meal for you, offer to bring a few smaller 
dishes. Easily transportable low-sodium appetizers 
and family-style sides will not only fill you up but will taste equally delicious to others. May I suggest bringing Hickory-Smoked Fish Spread (page 228), one 
of the Kale Salads for Different Seasons (page 182), 
or Cardamon Cake with Coconut Whipped Cream 
(page  1 93) to your next friendly gathering?fill your plate
If you hate feeling left out or like a nuisance, coordi-nate with the host or hostess to find out what’s on the 
menu. Then make your own low-sodium version to 
bring with you. When it is dinnertime, ask for an empty plate, fill it with your food, and eat with everyone else.
give a gift
For those events when you don’t know the host or hostess very well, bring along an edible gift, like a jar 
of Toasted Pepita Mix (page  176), Pickled Cherries 
(page  249), Date Caramels with Crunchy Chocolate 
Coating (page  205), or Avocado Green Goddess Dress -
ing (page  168) and a basket of fresh vegetables from 
your D.I.Y. garden. Everyone loves food gifts. Then, when they put your gift out for everyone to enjoy, 
you’ll get a guaranteed low-sodium bite to eat.7
Go
 
Making  Meals Work  
When at WorkGO  :  107
GO  :  107
ou’ve got big things to do, big people to 
meet, big adventures to undertake. As 
soon as you walk out the door every morning, 
you’re on the move. While that busy calendar 
makes life exciting, it also poses a bit of a 
challenge for your low-sodium diet: How do 
you stay satisfied and low-so while on the go?
With a little prep and creativity, your food 
routine and an active lifestyle don’t have to conflict. Quick breakfasts, work lunches, and emergency snacks can all be eaten and enjoyed on a low-sodium diet, and made in as much 
time as it takes to get your morning coffee or 
afternoon takeout. There’s no need to cheat on your low-sodium ways or, worse yet, wake up an hour early to make lunch every day.Y108  :  LOW-SO GOODmorning meals
Breakfast may be the most important meal of the day, but it can also quickly tip the 
sodium scale. With more than 500  mg of sodium, a single bagel can equal one-third 
of the recommended daily sodium intake. And that’s not counting the cream cheese 
(120  mg of sodium per 2  Tbsp), smoked salmon lox (over 500  mg of sodium per 1  o z 
[30 g]), or nonfat latte (yes, milk contains more than 100  mg of sodium per 1  cup  
[240  ml ]).
But that doesn’t mean you should skip breakfast or 
start grinding your own sausage meat every morning 
(although that would be all sorts of amazing). By 
ditching the processed treats—muffins, microwave oatmeal, breakfast energy bars—and replacing them with fresh whole ingredients or homemade versions, 
it’s easy to fuel up on good food while cutting back on 
the sodium. Here are some ideas.
yogurt
Ranging from 0  to 100  mg of sodium per 6-oz [170-g] 
serving, depending on brand and type, yogurt makes a great canvas for low-sodium morning snacks. Plus, 
it’s portable (throw a container into your work bag), 
storable (keep a few in the refrigerator at work), and found almost anywhere you go (airports, drugstores, gas stations).
With simple additions, transform your yogurt from 
sweet to savory and keep your taste buds surprised throughout the week. Yogurt can be eaten all day long, 
as a spread on low-sodium crackers or bread, a dip for 
vegetables, and a dressing for salads. Use the follow-ing suggestions for your yogurt snack bags. Then mix 
up creations at home, on the bus, or at your desk.mediterranean morning:
Plain Greek yogurt + dill (fresh or dry) + 
shredded cucumbers
the tropics:
Plain coconut yogurt + toasted coconut + chai spice
carrot cake:
Lemon soy yogurt + shredded carrots + raisins + pepitas + cinnamon
cocoa nuts:
Plain soy yogurt + peanut or sunflower butter + low-sodium chocolate chips
matzo and rice crackers
If you want to bite into something, skip the high-  
sodium bagels and breads and reach for lower-sodium 
options like matzo and rice crackers. Top them with 
something sweet (yogurt, honey, nut or seed butters) or something savory (egg salad, hummus, guacamole), and get the crunch you’re looking for.GO  :  109breakfast tortillas
Corn tortillas are a major low-sodium staple in my 
house. They provide a sturdy foundation for quick 
snacks to bigger meals, like tacos. For breakfast, they 
make a great bread substitute for morning treats, especially if you’re a fan of avocado toast. Use them cold or crisp them with a quick toast in a hot pan or  
1 minute in the microwave. Then fill with one of the 
following spreads for a substantial wake-up call.
got a second:
Toasted tortilla + half avocado, mashed 
and spread + red pepper flakes + fried egg
got to run:
Toasted tortilla + half avocado, sliced + yogurt + red pepper flakes
got to green:
Toasted tortilla + half avocado, mashed and spread + shaved zucchini + red pepper flakes
oatmeal
I grew up on instant-oatmeal packages. As simple as 
rip, heat, and eat, the hardest part of breakfast was 
deciding whether I wanted berry or maple flavor. But 
the flavored versions in these packages tend to be high in sodium—one packet of a common brand of 
Cinnamon Spice has 250  mg per serving. So let’s make 
our own instant oatmeal instead. It’s as easy as bag it, microwave it, and devour it. And you can always 
prepare a big batch on Sunday and store it in canning 
jars or airtight plastic bags for the week ahead.Start with DIY Oatmeal on page 111 (or you can buy premade, plain, no-sodium-added oatmeal) and then 
experiment with flavor combinations of your own, 
using the suggested additions for inspiration. You have countless ingredients to choose from. You can 
also add a splash of coconut milk or a dollop of yogurt 
(Greek, soy, or coconut milk–based) for extra creami-ness and flavor.
chia seeds
Remember Chia Pets? Those ceramic sculptures of dogs and other animals that sprouted green hair? Well, 
the little seeds responsible for the grassy hair are also 
filled with major nutrients, like healthful omega-3 fats, fiber, and manganese, as well as phosphorous, protein, and tryptophan (think Thanksgiving turkey 
coma), so they may help improve your blood pressure 
and regulate appetite and sleep. These are just a few of the reasons these little seeds have gone from white 
elephant gift status to superfood stardom.
To get some chia in your diet, start with the white or 
black seeds (of good quality) and sprinkle them in 
smoothies, oatmeal, or fruit juice, or mix with jam 
before spreading on toasted no-salt-added bread or corn tortillas—because they don’t have to be ground for you to eat them. My favorite feature of chia seeds 
is that, when mixed with a liquid like coconut milk and 
a few other ingredients, they plump up and transform into a gelled, pudding-like snack.
Using a simple equation (1  cup [240  ml] liquid plus 
3 Tbsp chia seeds plus spices), you can experiment 
with a range of flavors—chocolate yogurt, matcha green tea, or even carrot juice—as well as textural 
additions—crushed nuts, toasted coconut, fresh 
fruit, or chocolate chips. And remember to pack chia 110  :  LOW-SO GOODseeds when you travel. Just mix them with yogurt 
and jam and keep in the mini fridge overnight for an 
energy-packed snack the next day. See the two chia 
pudding recipes on page 112 to get you started.
muffin tins
As we have learned, bread and bready goods are on the CDC’s sodium “watch” list. Whether you grab a 
croissant (with more than 300  mg of sodium per large 
croissant) or an oat bran muffin (with more than 
550 mg of sodium per large muffin), these convenient 
morning treats can easily equal one-fourth to one-half 
of the day’s 1,500  mg allotment.
Instead of opening your own bakery, just purchase a standard muffin tin. By mixing a few basic ingredi-
ents in a bowl, your trusty muffin tin and your oven 
will do the rest of the work, baking everything from ranch cornmeal muffins to Mini Hash Brown Quiches 
(page  208) to anything else you dream up. These will 
keep you satisfied throughout the week without the extra sodium. So make a few batches of morning treats 
in your muffin tin to grab on your way out the door.mugs and microwaves
For instant gratification, all you need is a microwave-  
proof coffee mug and some (salt-free) prepackaged ingredients. Then you can make scrambled eggs, 
banana bread, and even coffee cake from the comfort of your office kitchen. The mug will be hot (really hot, so use oven mitts or a thick towel to take it out of the 
microwave, and let it cool off), but it will be ready and 
on your desk in less than 10  minutes . Check out the 
Internet for some fun microwave and “food in a mug” 
recipes. See pages 112 and 114 for three of my favorites.GO  :  111DIY OATMEAL
 Makes   5 servings    Time   15 minutes
3 cups [240 g] quick-cooking oats
SUGGESTED ADDITIONS
Banana Bread: Salt-free 
walnuts + banana slices + 
honey + cinnamon + yogurt
Cookie Break: Dried cranberries +  
chocolate chips + brown sugar +  
candied ginger 
Japanese Breakfast: Fresh, sliced 
shiitake mushrooms + nori strips + sesame seeds + sliced green onion 
+ poached or hard-boiled egg
PB&J: Salt-free peanuts + 
honey + fresh berriesTrail Mix: Salt-free cashews + raisins 
+ dried cherries + brown sugar
Tropical Sunrise: Toasted 
coconut flakes + coconut milk 
+ salt-free macadamia nuts + 
dried mango or pineapplePreheat the oven to 350°F [180°C].
Spread the oats in a large baking pan. Toast for 3  to 5  minutes , 
until the oats start to turn golden. Transfer 1  cup [80  g] of the 
toasted oats to a food processor (or blender) and blend into a 
fine powder. In a large bowl, mix the powdered oats with the 
remaining 2  cups [160  g] whole oats. Divide among five jars or 
plastic bags (about 1/2 cup [55  g] each).
To cook, combine 3/4 cup [180  ml] water with one 1/2-cup [55-g] 
portion of oatmeal in a microwave-safe bowl and heat for 1  minute  
in the microwave. Or add boiling water to the oatmeal in the bowl, 
cover, and let sit for 3  minutes . Mix in your choice of additions, 
and eat.112  :  LOW-SO GOODBANANA CHAI–CHIA PUDDING
 Serves   2   Time   20 minutes, plus time in the refrigerator
11/2 cups [360 ml] unsweetened 
coconut milk
1 chai tea bag
1/2 ripe banana
1 tsp vanilla or almond extract1 tsp sugar
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
3 Tbsp chia seedsIn a small saucepan over medium heat, bring the coconut milk 
to a simmer and cook for 2  minutes . Take the pan off the heat, 
add the tea bag, and let steep for 15  minutes . Squeeze the tea bag 
into the milk and discard the tea bag. Pour the chai coconut milk 
into a blender. Add the banana, vanilla, sugar, and cinnamon and 
blend until smooth.
Transfer the mixture to a 2-cup [480-ml], spill-free glass or 
plastic container. Add the chia seeds and stir to combine. Let 
the mixture sit for 15  minutes . Stir again. Cover and put the chia 
mixture in the refrigerator for 2  hours , or up to overnight, before 
serving.
MINT CHIP–CHIA PUDDING
 Serves   2   Time   20 minutes, plus time in the refrigerator
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh mint leaves
2 tsp sugar
1/4 cup [45 g] chocolate chips
11/2 cups [360 ml] unsweetened 
coconut milk
1 tsp vanilla or almond extract
3 Tbsp chia seedsPut the mint leaves and sugar in a food processor (or blender). 
Pulse a few times until you have finely ground mint sugar. Add 
the chocolate chips and pulse again until the chips are roughly 
chopped.
Transfer the mixture to a 2-cup [480-ml], spill-free glass or 
plastic container. Add the coconut milk, vanilla, and chia seeds 
and stir to combine. Let the mixture sit for 15  minutes . Stir again. 
Cover and put the chia mixture in the refrigerator for 2  hours , or 
up to overnight, before serving.GO  :  113MICROWAVE TOSTADA
 Serves   1   Time   5 minutes
One 6-in [15-cm] corn tortilla
1/2 cup [130 g] no-salt-added 
canned black or pinto beans, 
rinsed and drained
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp salt-free chili powder 
or red pepper flakes
1/2 avocado, mashed
2 dollops plain Greek yogurt
1 sprig fresh cilantro, chopped1 lime wedgePlace the tortilla on a microwave-safe plate and microwave at 
full power for 1  minute . Flip the tortilla and heat for another 
30 seconds . Let cool—it will crisp up as it rests.
In a bowl, mix together the beans, garlic powder, cumin, and 
chili powder.
Top the tortilla with the bean mixture, avocado, and yogurt. 
Sprinkle with the cilantro and spritz with the lime before eating.
variations:  You can use white beans, chopped fresh 
tomatoes, and shaved zucchini for a Greek tostada. Or go sweet 
with a mashed banana, yogurt, and a sprinkle of cinnamon and sugar for a churro tostada.114  :  LOW-SO GOODMICROWAVE BANANA BREAD
 Serves   1   Time   10 minutes, including cooling
1/4 cup [30 g] all-purpose flour
2 Tbsp granulated or brown sugar
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp sodium-free baking soda
1/8 tsp sodium-free baking powder
1 large very ripe banana
2 to 3 Tbsp dried cherries 
or raisins
1 to 2 Tbsp unsweetened 
coconut milk or waterCoat the interior of a microwave-safe mug with nonstick cooking 
spray. Add the flour, sugar, cinnamon, baking soda, and baking 
powder and stir with a fork. Add the banana, mash it, and stir 
the mixture until combined like batter. Add the cherries and coconut milk.
Microwave for 2  minutes . Check to see if it is done by sticking a 
knife into the center. If the knife looks clean when you pull it out, the bread is ready. If not, continue to microwave in 30-second 
increments until cooked through.
Using oven mitts, remove the hot mug from the microwave. The 
inside of the banana bread will be hotter than the outside, so let 
cool for 3  to 5  minutes . Then grab a spoon and enjoy, straight 
from the mug.
variations:  Switch things up. Add shredded carrots, 
zucchini, or chopped salt-free nuts. Or go savory by ditching the 
banana, dried fruit, and coconut milk and substituting 1  av ocado 
and some of the spices from the Everything Waffles (page  211),  
like caraway seeds, poppy seeds, dried onion flakes, and salt-
free garlic powder.GO  :  115Work Lunch
When I worked in an office, I usually brought my lunch with me. Grabbing a quick sandwich 
or bowl of soup at a café meant way too much sodium for my diet. I often used leftovers to 
get me through the day. While eating something twice can be nice, it can also get boring. 
So here are some other lunch ideas that take very little time to prepare, whether you do the work on the weekend, the night before, or as you leave in the morning.
REFRIGERATOR SALAD BAR
Armed with lots of fresh ingredients and a few spill-
proof containers or canning jars, it’s easy to set up a 
salad bar in your home or office refrigerator. With leafy 
greens, raw vegetables, cooked grains, an assortment of proteins, and textural additions, you can quickly mix up ingredients throughout the week. To be time 
efficient, do the basic prep work on the weekend and 
remember to go bigger at dinner so you have leftovers for lunch—like adding a little extra pasta to the pot, 
buying a slightly larger roast beef, and boiling a half 
dozen eggs rather than just two or three.
Purchase bento boxes or other airtight containers. 
Get spill-free jars for your dressings. Use the following 
ideas to get your salad bar started. Then get to mixing and matching, and making lunch low-so easy.
the 	gr ains 	(make extra for dinner to use for 
lunch)
 +Cooked couscous
 +Cooked no-salt-added rice or pasta noodles
 +Cooked quinoa
 +Cooked rice (brown, white, black, mixed); you’ll find 
no-salt-added microwave rice, toothe 	pr oteins 	(keep it simple with canned beans 
or go big with pulled pork)
 +Canned, no-salt-added beans (add your own salt-free spices)
 +Cooked lentils (make from dried lentils at home and add salt-free spices)
 +Corn-Broccoli Burgers (page  20 1)
 +Curry Tofu Fries (page  217 )
 +Firefly Falafel with Herb Yogurt (page  147 )
 +Hard-boiled eggs (see page  166)
 +Hickory-Smoked Fish Spread (page  228)
 +No-salt-added deli meat
 +Quickie Shredded Chicken (page  117 )
 +Roast Beef and Mustard Seed Carrots (page  189 )
 +Speedy Five-Spice Pulled Pork (page  118)
 +Sunday Chicken with Roasted Roots and Fruits 
(page  223)116  :  LOW-SO GOODthe 	ve getables  (cut down on time by cutting 
veggies into small bits or thin slices, and enjoy them 
raw)
 +Broccoli stem slaw (find it packaged or make your own)
 +Finely chopped or sliced kale
 +Grated, raw zucchini and carrots
 +Leafy lettuces
 +Peas, edamame, and corn kernels (fresh or frozen, 
thawed)
 +Peeled and sliced or diced cucumbers
 +Riced broccoli and cauliflower (florets finely chopped)
 +Shaved Brussels sprouts
the 	fr uit 	(because they belong in salads, too)
 +Cherry tomatoes
 +Cubed papaya
 +Fresh berries
 +Pomegranate seeds
 +Sliced avocado
 +Sliced mangothe 	dres sings 	(make a few to use throughout 
the week)
 +Avocado Green Goddess Dressing (page  168)
 +Peach-Jalapeño Sauce (see page  255)
 +Lemon Tahini Dressing (page  170)
 +The MacGyver Vinaigrette (page  119 )
 +Sauce Gribiche (page  166)
 +Carrot–Sweet Onion Dressing (page  169 )
the 	extr as 	(because a little bit of color, surprise 
flavors, and texture make a salad better)
 +Chili Polenta Fries (page  216)
 +Cubed jicama or Dill Oil Jicama “Fries” (page  217 )
 +Dukka Spice Mix (page  188)
 +Fresh berries
 +Fresh herbs
 +Lime or lemon wedges  
 +Oven-roasted chickpeas
 +Salt-Free Bacon (page  93), crumbled into bits
 +Toasted coconut
 +Toasted Pepita Mix (page  176)
 +Toasted unsalted nuts or seeds
 +Whole seeds, like caraway, coriander, mustard, and celeryGO  :  117QUICKIE SHREDDED CHICKEN
You can replace the spices in this recipe with 2  Tbsp of any salt-free spices or blends. 
You can also add some salad dressing or Roasted Fig and Tomato Slow Jam (page  162) 
for extra flavor. Be sure to save the leftover cooking liquid to use like broth in a pot of 
beans, stew, or rice to be made later in the week.
 makes   4 Servings   time   30 minutes
2 tsp ground cumin
2 tsp sweet paprika
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/2 tsp ground mustard
1/2 tsp salt-free chili powder 
or red pepper flakes
1/4 cup [60 ml] orange juice
1/4 cup [60 ml] no-salt-added 
tomato purée or apricot jam
2 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
11/4 lb [570 g] boneless, skinless 
chicken breasts or thighsIn a small bowl, stir together the cumin, paprika, garlic powder, 
mustard, and chili powder. Set aside.
In a large lidded saucepan or Dutch oven over medium-high heat, 
add the orange juice, tomato purée, vinegar, and half of the spice mixture and stir to combine. Add the chicken and enough water 
to cover. Cover the pan, bring to a boil, and cook for 5  minutes . 
Turn the heat to low and simmer, with the pan covered, until 
the chicken easily pulls apart with the tug of two forks, 18  to  
20 minutes .
Transfer the chicken to a medium bowl and use the two forks to shred the meat. Add in the remaining spice mixture and 
1/2 cup  
[120 ml] of the cooking liquid and use a fork to mix. 
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .118  :  LOW-SO GOODSPEEDY FIVE-SPICE PULLED PORK
Braising small pieces of pork takes the meat to tender quickly, making this recipe a 
go-to for weeknights when you crave big flavor.
 makes   4 servings   time   1 hour
1 Tbsp vegetable oil
1/2 small yellow onion, diced 
1 lb [455 g] pork tenderloin, 
fat trimmed and cut 
into 4 equal pieces
1 tsp salt-free Chinese 
five-spice powder
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
11/2 cups [360 ml] water
1/4 cup [60 ml] apple cider vinegar
1 Tbsp apricot jam 
1 tsp honeyIn a medium heavy-bottomed lidded saucepan or Dutch oven 
over medium-high heat, warm the vegetable oil. Add the onion 
and pork and cook, stirring the onion frequently and turning 
the pork pieces, until the meat is browned on both sides, about 
5 minutes .
In a small bowl, add the five-spice powder, garlic powder, pepper, water, vinegar, apricot jam, and honey and stir to combine. Add 
the mixture to the pan, bring to a boil, and cook for 5  minutes . 
Cover the pan, turn the heat to medium-low, and braise until you 
can pull the pork apart with two forks, about 30  minutes .
Transfer the pork to a medium bowl and leave the pan of cooking liquid on the stove uncovered over medium-low heat. Use the 
two forks to shred the pork. Add the pork back to the pan and 
let the liquid reduce, stirring occasionally, for 12  to 15  minutes .
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .GO  :  119
THE MACGYVER VINAIGRETTE
Sometimes the only thing you can find to eat while dining out is a salad. A plain, 
dressingless, boring salad. But hold on to your fork for a moment. Because those 
greens need not go bare. Dress them with an impressive vinaigrette made from simple 
ingredients you can find pretty much anywhere—from hospital cafeterias to airports to food courts to any establishment that serves food. Which is why I call it the MacGyver 
Vinaigrette. That dude could seriously make anything from nothing, and you can, too.
The math for the MacGyver Vinaigrette is simple: 1 part acid + 3 parts oil + 1 emulsifying 
agent + extra flair = a vinaigrette. For the specifics, try the following, whether you make 
your dressing at home or on the go.
ACID
Try a squeeze of fresh lemon, 
lime, or orange juice to provide 
the tang, or use vinegar (just 
be sure it’s 0 mg sodium).
EMULSIFYING AGENT
The egg yolk from a hard- or 
soft-boiled egg, honey, mashed 
avocado, or low-sodium prepared 
mustards will do the trick. This element is optional, but it will  
make your dressing thick and  
luscious and clingy.OILBe sure to try different kinds of oil 
(like nut, avocado, and coconut), 
but olive oil will be the easiest 
to find while out and about. 
EXTRA FLAIR
Try adding berries, fresh herbs, 
spices (black pepper or red pepper flakes are the easiest to 
find, especially if there’s pizza 
on the menu), and tomatoes 
(which are plump with umami).
To mix the dressing together, a lidded jar and an aggressive shake will work 
best. A jar is probably the most convenient and portable method, as long as you don’t mind carrying a small glass jar in your bag or purse. (Perhaps put 
it in a resealable plastic bag, just in case.) The dressing will stay emulsified 
for about 30  minutes . When at home or in a kitchen, you can use a food 
processor or the drip-and-whisk method to emulsify the ingredients. Or 
when you’re really in a pinch, just pour the different ingredients—acid, oil, emulsifying agent, flair—on the salad separately and use your fork to mix 
it up. 120  :  LOW-SO GOOD
SIX LOW-SO WAYS 
TO SANDWICH
Bread may be one of the high-sodium culprits, but 
that doesn’t mean you have to avoid sandwiches 
forever. Bread makers and salt-free bread recipes 
make it possible to create low-sodium loaves at home. If you are looking for something more time efficient, try these bread replacements for a quick way to wrap 
up that midday meal.
cucumber baguettes
Cut a cucumber in half lengthwise and use a spoon to 
remove the seeds in the middle. Treat the cucumber 
halves like an open-face baguette sandwich, and top 
with yogurt and grated vegetables, Hickory-Smoked 
Fish Spread (page  228), or a simple mix of mashed 
avocado and herbs. Layer on some low-sodium deli meat, pulled chicken, thinly sliced vegetables, or a 
chopped hard-boiled egg (see page  166). Wrap each in 
plastic wrap and put in a resealable bag.
collard leaf lavash
Remove the hard stem from the center of two collard leaves and paint the inside of both leaves with sticky 
spread, like homemade hummus, thickened Lemon 
Tahini Dressing (page  170), or mashed avocado. Place 
one leaf over the other, making one oval-shaped leaf 
“lavash” (a thin, round flatbread). Place the wrap fill-
ings—like cooked quinoa, zucchini matchsticks, bean 
sprouts, sliced green onions, chopped jalapeño—on one end of the leaf lavash. Then, just like rolling a burrito or sushi, fold the top and bottom parts of the 
leaves inward while you tightly roll the wrap up. While 
holding the wrap, carefully cut it in half. To keep it together, transfer the collard lavash onto plastic wrap or foil, put the two halves back together, tightly wrap it up, and pack it in a resealable bag.
nori wrap
For hikes, airplane rides, or desk lunches, I love making nori (toasted seaweed) rolls. Like the collard 
wraps, you want to start with something sticky to act 
as the glue—slightly warm rice is best, but magical mashed avocado will also work. Spread the rice or avocado all over the nori sheet. Put the fillings on the 
nori sheet as you did with the collard wraps. Wrap 
the nori over the filling and over itself until you reach  
the other side. Tightly wrap it up in foil and pack it to 
go in a resealable bag.
lettuce spring rolls
Make a party out of lunchtime by packing up some 
butter lettuce leaves; Lemon Tahini Dressing 
(page  1 90), Orange-Ginger Sauce (see page  218), or 
homemade salt-free peanut sauce; julienned carrots and cucumbers; and any other fillings, like the shrimp 
from the Carrot Vegetable Noodle Salad with Spicy 
Shrimp (page  1 99) or Curry Tofu Fries (page  217).  
When it’s time to eat, get spring-rolling.
jicama buns
If you happen to see jicama at your market, grab one 
(hint: it looks like a well-fed turnip). You can use 
this unassuming root to add texture to salads and 
guacamole, and you can even make sliced jicama into 
crunchy vegetable “fries” (see page  217). But things 
are about to get even more awesome. Instead of cut-ting jicama into the conventional sticks or cubes, cut 
it into rounds to make a crunchy, flat bun. Compose 
an open-face sandwich with the jicama “bun” and your choice of spreads and toppings, just like those cucumber baguettes.GO  :  121homemade low-sodium bread
Of course, we all occasionally crave the real thing, not 
just really creative replacements. So I wanted to be 
sure to give you a few salt-free bread recipes to try: 
Super-Simple Sandwich Bread (page  149), Easy Focac -
cia (page  238), or Mei Mei’s Green Onion Pancakes 
(page  151), which you can use like a pita wrap.
Since I didn’t cover the whole world of bread, be sure 
to check the low-sodium, salt-free baking books avail-
able. And try revising salty bread recipes (challah!) you 
find as well.
122  :  LOW-SO GOODGENMAICHA MICROWAVE SOUP
If you miss the ease and taste of instant noodles, then your office microwave is about 
to become your best friend, again. With a few ingredients (raw and dried) and a 
microwave-safe container, you can prepare a warm soup in minutes, while keeping  
the sodium, the prep work, and the spills to a minimum.
How? The trick is in tea. Yes, tea! Specifically a bag of genmaicha, which is green tea 
combined with roasted brown rice to create a savory, umami-filled drink. It can also 
double as a low-sodium, portable broth.
Simply pack a portable container with some noodle bowl fillings, like the ones in the 
ingredient list below, which you might find already prepped in your Refrigerator Salad 
Bar (see page  115).
Serves   1   Time   10 minutes
1 genmaicha tea bag
Boiling water
Cooked meatCooked no-salt-added rice noodles
Cubed firm tofu
Fresh or thawed frozen peas, 
edamame, or corn kernels
Peeled and thinly sliced 
carrots or zucchini
Spices: pinches of red pepper 
flakes, salt-free garlic powder, 
freshly ground black or white 
pepper, whole coriander seed
Thinly sliced bok choyThinly sliced fresh 
shiitake mushroomsAbout 10  minutes before you want to eat lunch, put the tea bag 
in a big cup of just-boiled water to steep. Steep the tea bag for 
5 to 8  minutes . Carefully squeeze the tea bag to get out all of the 
flavor, then discard.
In a microwave-safe bowl, combine your remaining ingredients 
with the tea. Heat in the microwave for 90  seconds . Test the 
temperature of the soup and continue heating in 1-minute 
intervals until it reaches your desired temperature. Enjoy.
variations:  Powdered sodium-free chicken, beef, and herb 
bouillon also make a great broth for on-the-go use. But these 
products replace the sodium chloride with potassium chloride, 
so be sure to check with your doctor or nutritionist before using.GO  :  123In the Drawer
It’s important to stock up on low-sodium staples, not just in your home but at your 
office, too. By having a few nonperishable edibles and a few basic cooking tools on 
hand, you can whip up a low-so lunch or snack whenever you want.
edibles
 +Canned (or boxed) no-salt-added beans
 +Chia, quinoa, oats (in jars)
 +Dried fruits and vegetables
 +Low-sodium tuna fish
 +Matzo crackers
 +Microwaveable rice
 +Olive oil and vinegar, in small spill-free bottles
 +Salt-free chips
 +Salt-free mug mixes
 +Salt-free popcorn
 +Salt-free spices and spice blends
 +Tea
 +Unsalted nuts and seeds
tools
 +Can opener
 +Microwave-safe bowls and mugs
 +Spoon, fork, knifeAnd just a quick word from management: It’s totally 
cool to “gift” cooking utensils to your office, like a 
small rice cooker, which will give both you and your 
coworkers more options for preparing meals at the office. You could also be in charge of organizing a little spice and grain cabinet. Or go a step beyond and sign 
up your company (or a group of like-minded cowork-
ers) for a regular farm-to-office food delivery or CSA service, so you always have fresh fruit and vegetables 
on hand.
And if you miss the tradition of sharing the lunch 
hour with coworkers, start a monthly potluck. Surely 
someone else in the office eats vegan, Paleo, nut-free, 
or even low-sodium. So reach out to the cubicles next to you. Use shared Google Docs to plan your potlucks, making notes of the ingredients and dietary needs. 
And enjoy lunch hour together.8
Entertain
Hosting and Holiday TipseNT eRTa IN   :  125
eNT eRTa IN   :  125
t’s time to undo one of the biggest low-
sodium myths of all: Salt-free food is not 
meant to be shared with others. This is just 
plain wrong.
Over the years, I’ve hosted plenty of brunches, 
Thanksgiving with all the fixings, and even a six-course New Year’s Eve feast for forty. 
Sunday night dinners with friends occur on 
a weekly basis. And simply put, meals at my home are an occasion not to be missed. Now it’s time to fill your low-so table with eager guests, too.
Even though it seems unlikely, as someone 
with special dietary needs, you actually make the ultimate host or hostess. First, you are 
naturally more prepared and more inclined to 
make adjustments for other people’s allergies and eating habits—which these days, seem to include just about everyone. And while you may fear that your low-so ways exclude you from the world of social dining, you’ll find that 
they make you and your meals more inclusive 
of everyone else’s habits. 
Second, as a low-sodium cook, you will make 
most of your meals from scratch, with fresh 
ingredients, interesting spices, and exciting combinations that many people have not tried before. These features automatically make your food better than takeout. And because you now know that presentation counts just as much as the food itself, you will wow guests with your use of color and sauces 
and snappy details. Who wouldn’t want to eat 
with a person who cooked like that?
So instead of hiding your low-so diet or 
apologizing for it, get ready to show it off. 
From last-minute dinner parties to big holiday 
gatherings, the following tips will help you keep your sodium in check while still serving meals to be remembered.
I126  :  LOW-SO GOODThrowing a Party Without 
Losing Your Mind
Low-sodium food is meant to be shared. It is made for entertaining. It’s perfect for any 
gathering or celebration. And here’s how you can throw a great party that keeps the 
flavor high and both the sodium and stress low.
one pot, individual portions, 
early prep
Keep things simple. The key to good entertaining is 
making sure you aren’t at the stove the whole time 
your guests are in your home. That means making 
one-pot dishes or letting your oven do most of the work for you. Or choosing recipes that you can make ahead of time, serve at room temperature, or simply 
heat right before the doorbell rings. With individual 
portions, you can add saltier ingredients (like cheese or cured meats) for guests. When you do want to try 
something daring, give yourself plenty of practice and 
time, as well as a backup plan.
don’t make everything
While fresh is best for low-sodium cooking, use a shortcut for some of the ingredients. This might mean 
buying presliced garlic or using canned beans, bottled 
marinades, or premade dips for your guests. I give you my blessing. Just make sure that your time-saving purchases are low-sodium and salt-free, if you plan to 
eat them.
do make a shopping list
Even if you think you will remember what you need, you will probably forget something for your menu. To 
be safe, write down a list—on your phone, on a piece 
of paper, whatever works for you.bring in the noise, bring on  
the fun
Entertaining is not just about food. It is about the whole environment you create for your guests. You 
don’t have to get a degree in Martha Stewart crafti-
ness or splurge on new plates. But there are many simple ways to charm your guests and elevate the mood during prep. How about putting out arrange-
ments of fresh flowers and playing music. Or giving 
simple appetizers a little extra zip with some of the following ideas:
 +Choose colorful and uncommon vegetables, like 
purple cauliflower, romaine hearts, or chili-spiced 
rainbow carrots, for your crudité platter.
 +Use a vegetable peeler to add stripes to cucumber 
edges before slicing each cucumber into cracker-
size shapes. Or use a teaspoon to scoop out the 
seedy centers of thick slices to make mini cucumber cups, to then fill as you wish.
 +Forget the bread and use sturdy fruit, like sliced apples, firm nectarines, or even dried apricots as  
the canvas for savory dips and spreads.
 +Mix toasted nuts and seeds with salt-free popcorn and fun spices (cumin, chipotle, dill) for a tasty bar snack.
 +Roll Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta” (page  196) in crushed, 
toasted nuts or spices for a fun take on mini cheese balls. eNT eRTa IN   :  127 +Make your own herbed butter or herb-infused oil to 
slather on Easy Focaccia (page  238).
 +Make ice cubes colorful by adding fresh berries or 
herbs to the water before freezing.
give your guests something to do
Whether your friends man the drink station or help 
stir a pot, when they feel involved they’ll enjoy the 
finished product that much more. For something 
really fun, arrange jars of fresh herbs on the table in place of flowers so guests can choose and sprinkle on their own.
keep dessert simple
Unless baked goods hit your entertaining sweet spot, dessert is a great place to go the simple route. That 
doesn’t mean you can’t make those final bites yourself 
or add your own special touch, but you don’t have to make a three-layer cake or ice cream from scratch (unless you want to). For simple sweet endings, try 
one of the following.
Crumbles: All you need is a baking dish, enough fresh, ripe fruit to fill the baking dish, and the topping. For 
the topping, use a combination of flour, unsalted 
butter, and sugar to sprinkle on top. Play with the types of flour you use (almond, wheat, oat) as well as the kind of sugar (honeycomb and candied ginger) and 
fat (coconut oil). Try also adding chopped unsalted 
nuts, coconut flakes, or crushed coffee beans. And feel free to add spice, herbs, and citrus for a flavor boost. 
Then just put it in a moderate oven (375°F [190°C]) 
for 30-ish minutes until the fruit is juicy and fork-  
tender and the top is browned and crispy. Serve with ice cream.
Kitchen Cupboard Chocolate Bark: Line a 9-by-11-in 
[23-by-28-cm] baking pan with parchment paper. Melt  
some chocolate and pour it into the pan. While still warm and soft, sprinkle with toppings (crispy rice cereal, coconut flakes, salt-free nuts, dried fruit, chopped mint, candied ginger, cayenne pepper). Store 
in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. Lift out the parch-
ment, and break the bark into pieces.Pancake Cakes: Make mini pancakes on the stove. Use 
whipped cream or Greek yogurt to frost one pancake, 
top with macerated berries, and add another pancake. Continue until you’ve built mini, three-layered cakes for your guests. Garnish with some fresh mint or 
lemon zest. You can even make the pancakes (kept 
at room temperature, covered in foil) and whipped cream (refrigerated) ahead of time, and assemble 
them after dinner.
Parfait: Whipped cream, yogurt, chia jams, fresh fruit, granola, honey-coated nuts, honeycomb—the hard-est part of a parfait is picking the ingredients. Once 
you’ve made your choices, layer the items in glass 
cups or bowls or even champagne flutes. Or let your guests make their own.
Whipped Cream, Brown Sugar, and Berries: Put the 
fresh berries in a large bowl, and place the whipped cream and brown sugar in small separate bowls. Tell your guests to dip some berries in whipped cream and 
brown sugar. And here’s the ultimate party trick: Fill a 
cold canning jar halfway with chilled heavy whipping cream. Close tightly. Tell one of your guests to shake 
for 5 minutes. And ta-da, you have whipped cream as 
well as great entertainment. Also, you can give each guest a jar of their own chilled cream to shake and an array of additions to choose from—like shaved choc-
olate, colored sprinkles, ground cinnamon, and maple 
syrup—for a DIY whipped cream bar and a sweet part-ing gift. Is there anything better than that?128  :  LOW-SO GOOD
eNT eRTa IN   :  129make feasts flexible
When entertaining guests, I never want someone’s 
plate to be empty or their palate to be unsatisfied. I 
also don’t want to make several versions of dinner for 
every guest with different dietary needs and desires. So I am a big fan of flexible feasts.
These are meals made of small bites or multiple ele-
ments where everyone can choose their own food adventure—like a salad bar, but a lot more fun and flavorful. With a spread of colorful options at their 
fingertips, everyone builds the exact dish they desire; 
a concept that not only keeps everyone happy, but adds to the entertainment value of the meal. 
You can always provide toppings like cheese or cured 
meats or even a little bowl of salt for those not on low-sodium diets, if you think their palates might 
appreciate it. Buy premade spreads and sauces for 
these guests, too. As long as you keep all the individ-ual elements simple, flexible feasts will not add time or cost to your meal. 
To practice, here are some ideas to get you started for 
any meal of the day and any occasion.
brunch:  Set up a parfait bar with fresh fruit, dried 
fruit, nut-free granola, toasted coconut, chocolate 
chips, and yogurt in soy, coconut, and Greek varieties. 
Let guests build and layer. If you’re feeling brave, try offering a savory version, too, with cucumbers, olive oil, and herb pesto or hot sauce.
lunch:  Let guests wrap their way with a DIY spring 
roll bar. Set the table with traditional rice wrappers 
as well as grain-free options like butter lettuce leaves 
and nori sheets. Then provide cooked rice or quinoa, thinly sliced carrots, peppers, and cucumbers, avo-cado, tofu, and cooked shrimp for people to fill and 
roll as they wish.
dessert:  Everyone loves a good old-fashioned 
float. And to satisfy any sweet tooth, turn your counter into an old-fashioned soda shop with a diet-friendly 
twist. Provide a mix of fizzy, fruit-flavored sodas (all-natural is best), non-dairy ice creams or sorbets, whipped cream, sprinkles, and fresh fruit. Following 
are some combination ideas to get you started.
Apple Pie: Vanilla Coconut or Almond Milk Ice Cream 
+ Sparkling Cider
Sunny Citrus: Lemon Sorbet + Sparkling Lemonade
Tea Sparkler: Green Tea Coconut Ice Cream + Ginger 
Ale
dinner:  Personally, I think polenta, tacos, and 
pizza are three of the easiest meals to turn into flexi -
ble feasts. And that’s because they all taste great with 
almost any combination of toppings and fillings. So try one of these menus at your next dinner evening gathering:
The Dinner Party: Polenta with Lamb Chops, Harissa, 
and Lemon Fennel (page 252)
The Casual Fiesta: Jerk-ish Fish Tacos with Sauce, 
Slaw, and Salsa (page 255)
The Group Effort: Flatbread with Four Mix-And-Match 
Spreads (page 257)130  :  LOW-SO GOODThe Holiday Table
The holidays are my favorite time of year. The aromas of cinnamon and cloves fill the 
air, twinkling lights fill the streets, parties fill the calendar, and tradition fills our plates, 
minds, and bellies. But because of brined turkeys, cheesy mashed potatoes, and other 
seasonal favorites, the holidays also mean high-sodium foods.
To keep a sense of normalcy, many people trade health-
ful eating for ease. This can lead to guilt,  discomfort , 
or worst of all, health issues. Which, speaking from 
experience, isn’t so jolly.
So this year, let’s all promise to stay on the low-  
sodium plan. And, with the right approach, avoid risky 
nibbling. The following tips will keep you satisfied, 
whether you dine at your own home or at someone 
else’s. And by involving others in your healthful eating habits, you will find that you not only eat better this holiday season, but even inspire others to make a few 
food resolutions of their own.
HOSTING THE HOLIDAYS
To conquer high-sodium holiday traps, start by doing 
your homework. Whether it is the honey-baked ham, 
Tanta’s tamales, or that traditional pecan pie, your 
favorite dishes often include ingredients you may need to avoid. But instead of taking these recipes off the menu, solve the sodium issue by putting nontraditional 
ingredients back in. brisket
Sodium Culprit: Canned broth; canned tomato prod-
ucts (paste, sauce, ketchup).
Swap: Brisket can be luscious and juicy, or it can be 
dry, dry, dry. The trick to keeping it moist is a slow roast and a lot of sauce. But to keep that sauce low in sodium, you have to switch up the ingredients. Start 
with no-salt-added tomato products or even other 
puréed vegetables (like cauliflower or pumpkin). Then enhance with bold flavors, like red wine, orange juice, 
apricot jam, and horseradish. Add unexpected spices, 
like ancho pepper, salt-free chorizo spice blend, and cinnamon as well. And smother your brisket so it has no chance of drying out.
casseroles
Sodium Culprit: Canned soups; bread crumbs; cheese; and crispy onion things.
Swap: You can go the path of making your own low-  
sodium mushroom soup, your own low-sodium bread 
crumbs, and your own low-sodium fried onion things. But I personally like keeping my holiday sides as 
fresh and vibrant as possible, to counter the richness 
of everything else. So I skip the casserole and make flash-sautéed beans, maple-roasted squash, or glazed 
carrots instead. Embellish with herbs (like parsley, 
rosemary, thyme, or dill), thinly sliced shallots, citrus eNT eRTa IN   :  131zest, and chopped nuts (like hazelnuts, walnuts, or 
pistachios). Or if you like crispy things, bake up some 
hash browns for a crunchy topping.
gravy
Sodium Culprit: Canned broth; salted butter.
Swap: The point of gravy at the holidays is to add extra 
moisture and savory flavor to your poultry and potatoes. 
So yes, you can make your own silky low-sodium gravy by making your own stock. But this is also an opportu -
nity to switch things up by serving a warm Dilly Chimi -
churri (page  163), a warm Carrot–Sweet Onion Dressing 
(page  169), or Curry Mushroom Gravy (see page  203).
ham
Sodium Culprit: A salty cure.Swap: Skip the honey-baked ham and chose an 
uncured cut of pork to star as your main dish. Think 
beyond the traditional and use pork chops, pork loin, or even a slow-cooked pulled pork. Make a sweet and smoky jam glaze to mimic the hams of holidays past. 
Or go wild and pair your pork with an unusual salt-free 
spice blend (like Chinese five-spice) or an unusual 
sauce (like the spicy Harissa Hot Sauce on page  16 4).
mashed potatoes
Sodium Culprit: Ready-to-eat potato mix; cheese; salted butter.
Swap: First, be sure to start with fresh potatoes (or 
whatever root vegetable you plan to use). Then, add flavor by mixing in bright additions, like an herb pesto, roasted peppers, or a combination of yogurt 
and Dukka Spice Mix (page  188).
pie
Sodium Culprit: Graham cracker crust.Swap: If you want a traditional-tasting pumpkin pie 
without making cookies from scratch, try using low-so ice-cream cones, or take inspiration from raw and 
Paleo cooks and use nuts to create the crunchy shell. 
Fill macaroon tarts (see page 225) with pumpkin pie filling. Or skip the classics (and the crust) altogether and make Cardamom Cake with Coconut Whipped 
Cream (page 193). Replace the toasted coconut flake 
topping with more holiday-appropriate candied nuts or bright pomegranate seeds.
smoked fish
Sodium Culprit: A salty cure.Swap: Make your own hickory-smoked fish (see 
page  228) instead.
stuffing
Sodium Culprit: Prepared bread; broth.Swap: If you can’t find no-salt-added bread, use 
Super-Simple Sandwich Bread (page  149). Or, even 
easier, make cornbread to replace store-bought loaves. But if you don’t mind tossing the crumbs, try a 
wild-rice stuffing instead. Then stud that stuffing with 
a combination of fresh herbs, sautéed mushrooms, 
Pickled Cherries (page  249), and pomegranate seeds 
or cranberries to boost color and flavor.
turkey
Sodium Culprit: Brine.Swap: When you buy your bird, make sure to find  
one that is brine- and solution-free. Communicate with the grocery store staff or buy from a butcher to ensure your turkey is fresh and not pre-seasoned or plumped. Then use the Low-So Turkey tips on 
page  132 to keep things juicy. 132  :  LOW-SO GOODLow-So Turkey
If you are on a low-sodium diet this holiday season, 
don’t settle for plain chicken breast. Instead, choose 
from the following methods to produce a seasoned 
and juicy turkey fit for any Thanksgiving feast.
Flip It Over: Most recipes call for the turkey to be 
cooked breast-side up. If you turn it to the other side, however, all those cooking juices will drip down 
around the breast meat, basically basting it for you. 
If you choose this method, though, just know that your bird may not achieve that award-winning golden 
hue—although, a glaze at the end and a quick broil will 
ensure your bird is a stunner. And best of all, you and your guests will enjoy slices of moist turkey breast for dinner and for leftovers.
Break It Apart: All the parts of the turkey are done 
at different times, which is why it is so darn difficult 
to keep the white and dark meats equally juicy. If you don’t mind skipping the big “carving moment,” 
break the bird into pieces before you put it into the 
oven, removing the breasts when they reach 145°F [63°C] and the legs and wings at 165°F [74°C]. Or you can butterfly the turkey by removing the backbone 
and flattening it in a large roasting or baking pan. 
This will expose the legs to more heat, helping them cook faster (so the white meat doesn’t have to wait 
as long). Because both methods lower the risk of dry 
meat as well as the time needed to cook it, be sure to check the thigh meat temperature earlier than usual. Depending on the size of the bird, you might have it 
out of the oven in just a few hours.Cool It Down: Harold McGee is a culinary genius. 
When it comes to Thanksgiving turkey, he offers a 
brilliant suggestion: Use ice packs. Yes, ice packs, to 
cool the breast meat before it cooks in the oven. While the legs and wings warm up to room temperature, the breast will chill and lower in temperature. When you 
finally cook the turkey (without ice packs), the breast 
will cook more slowly than the dark meat. 
Lift the Skin: Before you put any salt-free rub on that 
turkey, lift the skin from the meat at the openings at 
the top and bottom of the bird. This will allow the skin 
to remain thin and crispy as it cooks and will also let you rub flavor and moisture directly onto the meat under the skin (see the following paragraph).
Grease It Up: Just because you can’t use brine 
doesn’t mean you can’t use juicy liquids. Now that 
you have pockets between the skin and the meat, feel free to fill them with an oil- or butter-based rub, a 
homemade marinade, or even slices of citrus. This will 
help keep the meat moist and flavorful as it cooks. As the liquids collect at the bottom of the pan, put them to work as well. Use a ladle to bathe the bird in its 
juices every 30  t o 45  minut es.
Set It Upright: If you get a small enough turkey, you can use the ultimate method for golden poultry: 
Beer cans. Set your mini turkey upright on a half-
emptied can of beer, and the fat will drain off and away from the meat, keeping the skin crispy. The beer will also continually release steam inside the turkey, 
theoretically keeping the white meat juicy and moist. 
Make sure the bird is stable in the roasting pan and use a poultry stand for bigger turkeys.eNT eRTa IN   :  133DINING AT SOMEONE 
ELSE’S TABLE
Because many holiday meals will occur outside of your 
home, safely share in holiday feasts while sticking to 
your diet by using the tips on page  105 and adjusting 
with seasonal ingredients and recipes. And remem -
ber, whether it’s Thanksgiving or any old Thursday, hosts want their guests to be happy and full. If they find  
you with an empty plate, they will probably feel terrible that they didn’t provide anything for you to eat. So speak up and come up with a solution. Your hosts will be glad you did.
FIND INTERNATIONAL 
INSPIRATION
Here’s the ultimate, foolproof way to overcome “miss -
ing the salt” in holiday dishes: Forget the traditions of 
your childhood and borrow recipes from around the 
world to serve to your guests. From fish to fried chicken, 
traditional menus from other countries offer a range of unexpected ingredients and flavors to play with. Your holiday feast will no longer compete with memories 
from the past but will make new ones instead.
To get you started, introduce one of the following 
international dishes to your holiday table. And 
remember, while you can always make these recipes 
to the letter, you can also use them as inspiration for cross-cultural combinations. Give typical American 
holiday ingredients (sweet potatoes, turkey) an 
international twist (tamales, stuffed cabbage).
australia and new zealand
Instead of puddings and pies, take inspiration from the countries down under and make a lighter berry 
pavlova instead. Add seasonal flavors—like pumpkin spice or crushed chestnuts—to Pavlova Whoopie Pies 
(see page  26 1) and serve with tart cranberries and 
pomegranate seeds.
greece
Avgolemono—a thick, creamy soup made from 
chicken broth, lemon, rice, and egg—starts off the 
Christmas dinner in Greece. Try a classic recipe or 
play with Lemon Chicken Orzo (page  17 2) to create a 
version of your own.
italy
Christmas Eve in Sicily and southern Italy means the 
Feast of Seven Fishes. Which means you can replace 
honey-baked ham and brined turkey with shrimp and 
linguine or Dukka-Spiced Salmon Patties (page  187).
japan
Instead of turkey, fried chicken (specifically of the 
KFC variety) takes center stage during Christmas Eve, 
proving so popular that people have been said to place 
orders months ahead of time. But instead of ordering a bucket of wings, use the Coconut “Panko” Pork 
Tonkatsu (page  218) to make a crispy chicken (or fish) 
dish for your table.
mexico
Although made all year-round, traditional posole rojo 
makes an appearance on the Christmas Eve menu in 
Mexico. So this year, add color (and spice) to your 
holiday feast, and replace creamy squash soups with 
Green Pea Posole (page  239).
And don’t forget to mix and match your menu with dishes from other holidays, too, like latkes in place of 
mashed potatoes, a kugel-inspired stuffing, a Kwanzaa-
inspired roasted squash and peanut soup, or a Chinese New Year duck to help ring in January 1.9
connect
Make Your Low-So World  
Better, Easier, and BiggerCONN eC T   :  135
CONN eC T   :  135
When it comes to trying out the latest 
tech gadgets, I tend to drag my 
heels. Sure, I have a blog. But I’ll be honest, 
computers scare me. And I’m always a few 
steps behind the latest phone upgrade, the 
latest app, and the latest operating system 
(I’m not even sure what that means). So if you avoid Facebook or iAnything, just know that I’m in your corner.
As someone born, raised, and never leaving 
the Bay Area, though, I’m surrounded by people in the forefront of all things tech. Even 
though the constant influx of new products 
can feel overwhelming, with encouragement (and IT help), I’ve come to see how tools from the virtual world make real life with a special diet a lot easier, specifically in three 
challenging areas: socializing, managing time, 
and traveling.
Let’s plug in and see what technology can do 
for you, your busy schedule, and your much-
needed vacation.136  :  LOW-SO GOODDot-Coms and community
Nut allergies, gluten-free eating, or a low-sodium diet—everyone with a new food 
limitation fears the same thing: Losing out on the social experiences associated with eating.
Whether attending last-minute dinners for friends, 
participating in potlucks, or going on dates, having 
special food needs makes staying full and satisfied at 
these events more difficult, and it also makes feeling involved a lot harder, too. Without being able to take a bite of someone else’s pizza or having the confidence 
to share your own low-sodium version, it’s easy to feel 
left out. But thanks to the Internet, it can be easy to overcome feeling like an outsider. By linking to others 
with similar food needs, you’ll not only find a support-
ive community online, but also the confidence to create one offline as well.
internet acceptance
Once upon a time, in the age of actual libraries and bookstores, special-diet guides lived in the health 
section while everything else food-related lived in the 
glorious cookbook section. They were two separate worlds, divided.
But once dot-coms entered the picture, the lines began 
to blur. Recipes for vegan pâté and Paleo cauliflower pizza crusts showed up on special-diet blogs as much as on highly regarded culinary sites. Soon the sepa-
ration between special diets and food became ancient 
history. Today, everyone and every diet is welcome at the virtual table.Which brings me to the best part of this virtual culi-nary world: Participation! Passive perusing will lead to lots of inspiration, but don’t forget to add your own low-so ideas to the ever-growing virtual shelves. 
Whether you use photo-sharing sites or chat on food 
forums, you, too, can add to the catalog of culinary information. Maybe even start a blog of your own. For 
something personal, use Skype or Facetime to host a 
virtual low-so dinner party or cooking lesson. With the Internet, you never go low-so alone.
need help? try twitter, 
facebook, and yelp
Looking for a restaurant in Seattle to make you a 
memorable low-sodium dinner? Have questions 
about going to college with a special diet? Wondering 
where to buy salt-free pickles? Then it’s time to get social. Sites like Twitter, Facebook, and Yelp give you immediate access to a huge population of people with 
similar needs. With just a click, you can start your 
own low-sodium support group on Facebook, ask 
the Twitter  verse how to correct a cooking disaster, 
or consult Yelp for diet-friendly dining recommen-dations. Tap into this web of support and find your 
special-diet social network at the touch of a button 
(or tw o).CONN eC T   :  137Immediate Access
Now that you feel included and connected, let’s discuss how the Internet helps 
you overcome a second special-diet challenge: Time. Or, more specifically, time 
management. A common fear associated with low-sodium diets is the number of 
minutes and hours needed to make meals from scratch—from buying groceries to mastering new cooking skills. But again, thanks to our good pal technology, there  
are ways to make these low-so tasks more efficient and enjoyable.
buy online
You’re ready to get cooking. You’re inspired, you’re 
excited. But you have one small problem. As far as 
kitchen tools go, you have a toaster, a wooden spoon, 
and something that kind of resembles a baking dish. Whether this baking dish can safely go into the oven is currently up for debate. Clearly you need to do some 
shopping for supplies before you can delve into that 
first recipe. But since you’re such a busy person, you’re as short on time as you are on matching silverware.
Thanks to online shopping, you can get all your 
errands done on the commute to work or even during your lunch break. Shop at the virtual loca-
tions of your favorite stores and have all the goods 
delivered to your door. If you’re looking for budget-  
friendly options, don’t forget to check sites like Craigslist and eBay for good deals on often-expensive 
equipment. Or if you want to splurge, treat yourself 
to one-of-a-kind dishware and serving trays from sites like Etsy.com.
get it delivered
When searching for specialty low-sodium items like cheese, salsa, or bread, don’t waste your time with a 
grocery-store road trip. With a quick Google search, you can buy low-sodium products online and have 
them shipped directly to your home. It may be a bit 
pricier and you may have to buy products in bulk, but 
when you’re looking for something to satisfy a craving (like low-sodium cheddar), the extra pennies may be 
worth it.
Thanks to online companies like Instacart, Google 
Express, FreshDirect.com, Safeway.com, and Task -
rabbit, you can order groceries (and cooking equip-
ment) online and have them delivered, without lifting 
a finger or getting out of your pajamas. For even more 
ease, try one of the many meal delivery services and receive professionally developed recipes as well as all the prepped ingredients needed to make them. It’s 
like having a private chef without the big price tag. 
Just make a special note of your dietary needs.
save minutes and money
From menu planning to electronic coupon clipping, mobile apps will make your next trip to the market 
efficient and budget-friendly. Get alerts about sales; 
search for nutritional and allergy information; even scan and bag items as you walk the aisles. Keep up with the growing number of grocery store apps and 
easily cut down on your bill and time at the store. 138  :  LOW-SO GOOD
diets and Departures
Dietary limitations don’t have to take the spontaneity or flavor out of your adventures. 
Nor do they have to add stress to well-deserved R&R. With a little help from the Web, 
anyone with special dietary requirements can travel the world and have a satisfied and 
full tummy no matter where the journey takes them. 
PLAN SMART
research
Before looking at the weather for the week, use the 
Internet to research the food and culture of the city 
(or country) you plan to visit. Check out travel blogs 
to explore the cuisine, what’s typically on a menu, and how the dishes are traditionally prepared. That way, you can smartly navigate a menu according to your 
dietary needs. And get Googling. Map out the nearest 
grocery stores before you go, so you can stock up on low-so provisions as soon as you land.
shop ahead
If you are staying somewhere for a while, you can always send pantry favorites, like canned beans and 
chips, via mail to your accommodations. But if that 
gets expensive, email the concierge a grocery list instead and see if he or she will do a little pre-arrival shopping for you. Or try one of the food delivery ser-
vices mentioned on page 137 to stock up your room 
when you arrive.
snack hack
For unexpected layovers, long plane rides, and get-ting unexpectedly lost, it’s best to keep SOS snacks 
and utensils on hand. Use Pinterest and food blogs 
for easy-to-pack and nonperishable treat ideas such as roasted chickpeas or granola bars. Shop online to purchase tiny can openers, sporks, and collapsible containers for spontaneous cooking or picnicking.
forget the view, get a kitchen
When searching for hotels, look for spaces with small kitchenettes. If your hotel doesn’t have those options, 
remember you can always ask for a refrigerator and 
a microwave oven to be placed in your room for no to minimal cost. Better yet, skip the hotel and rent, through VRBO or Airbnb, options that provide access 
to spaces with kitchens or kitchenettes. That way, 
you can prepare fuller meals if you need to and make snack packs for day trips.
use friends, real and virtual
If you can stay with a friend, you’ve struck travel gold. Their kitchen, pantry, and stove are now yours, 
guaranteeing you safe and satisfying meals when you 
want. But even when you travel without a friend to visit, that doesn’t mean a helpful hand is far away. 
Use those social media tools (see page  136) to ask 
locals about diet-friendly eateries and grocery stores.
explore
Part of what makes traveling magical is immers -
ing oneself in the culture—and by culture, I mean 
 cuisine. So trade that museum tour for a food tour. By CONN eC T   :  139
bus or on foot, these excursions often wind through 
the streets of a city while providing lots of interesting 
historical tidbits and culinary inspiration to take back 
home as a souvenir. Look online for these opportuni -
ties wherever you travel or use the Internet to make up an edible tour of your own.
no english, no problem
If you plan to travel abroad where the language sounds a lot different from that in your hometown, don’t 
fret. There really is an app for everything—including 
speaking foreign languages. With a simple photo, some mobile apps will translate phrases found on signs, menus, and, yes, your laminated dietary card. 
Better yet, other apps will translate a word or phrase 
from your language to the native language, out loud, in real time. This means you may not be able to order 
in Portuguese, but your phone now can.
PACK SMART
emergency bites
For plane rides, layovers, and long afternoons of travel, it’s important to have SOS snacks with you, in 
your bag, at all times. My favorites include low- or no-  
sodium granola bars, unsalted nuts and seeds, berries 
and dried fruits, and individual nut butter packets.
carry on
For longer trips, pack that suitcase with heartier, nonperishable items that lie flat and will last without 
refrigeration. I personally like items with more bite 
to them, like rice crackers, corn tortillas, sodium-free dried soups (that need only hot water), no-salt-added boxed beans (no can opener necessary), and micro-
waveable rice, popcorn, and polenta. Don’t forget to 
pack some DIY Oatmeal (page  111) and the dry ingredi -
ents for Microwave Banana Bread (page  114), too.
make a travel tool kit
Just like your toiletries, it’s easy (and life changing) 
to pack travel-size cooking utensils. Fill small, spill-
free containers with oil, vinegar, and spice blends. 
Look to camping stores for tiny can openers, sporks, and collapsible containers (or lidded canning jars) for spontaneous picnics.
go raw
Take a tip from stove-free foodies and stock up on pre-washed, packaged vegetables. Whether you snack on 
snap peas or chopped kale, softened in a microwave, 
you can keep eating green while on the go.
kiddie menu
If things get dire, don’t forget about the baby aisle. That’s right, blended baby food and dry snacks are 
nutrient-rich, low in sodium, and, these days, tasty. 
Especially the fruit blends. So pack a few squeeze packets or puffs to go, just in case.10
Share
 
Culinary Karma and  
Getting Others InvolvedSha Re  :  141
Sha Re  :  141
ow-so does not need to, nor should it, 
be a solo adventure. When you share a 
low-sodium success story with a friend or 
a family member or a friendly stranger, you 
have an opportunity to make a big impact—
for yourself and for all the other people living 
with low-sodium diets or other health-related restrictions. Think of it as community service in the most delicious sense.
With your help and openness, you will teach 
others about creative cooking solutions. You will inspire them to get into their own 
kitchens and maybe overcome their own 
lingering food fears. And you will equip them with the confidence they need to feed you and feed others. So when you worry about speaking up, remember that you are not 
being an inconvenience; you are becoming an 
influencer. When you proudly share your low-sodium ways, you not only help yourself live better, but you help others live better, too.L142  :  LOW-SO GOODA Lesson in Culinary Karma
I’ll never forget my honeymoon to New Zealand. There were mind-blowing hikes on 
glaciers, bungeed leaps from bridges, casual swims with dolphins, and, of course, 
nights spent sleeping under shooting stars. The most memorable part of the trip did 
not come from our event-packed itinerary, however. It came from the discovery of gluten-free options in every restaurant as well as the smallest convenience stores. 
And (gasp!), even gas stations.
Regarding gluten-free diets, New Zealand seemed even 
more ahead of the trend than my progressive San Fran-
cisco neighborhood. After weeks of sighting gluten-  
free items in the most unexpected places, I found 
myself dining at a tiny pub in a tiny town, where I spied a huge menu of wheat- and gluten-free options. I was 
moved to ask the question that had nagged at me all 
along: How did they come to be so gluten-free friendly?
The answer was life changing.
According to the owner, one of the local women 
needed to eat gluten-free. As a regular customer, she also wished to continue enjoying her local restaurant. 
So instead of hiding her needs, she began bringing a 
personal stash of gluten-free products with her, to be used by the kitchen to make her dishes. A simple solu-
tion to the problem, but brave and novel, nonetheless.
With each item she brought in, she not only enabled 
herself to eat well, but she educated the owners about 
her food needs and how to accommodate them. And 
once the restaurant realized how many other cus-tomers shared in her diet, gluten-free dishes became mainstays on the menu. Ultimately, they even got a 
whole separate menu of their own.While I cannot speak for the entire country of New 
Zealand, or remember the name of this restaurant, 
or speak to the truth of the story I was told, here’s 
the big lesson: By making her food needs heard, this one woman made big changes for herself as well as a whole community of gluten-free eaters and even 
visitors from abroad. Well practiced at making adjust-
ments, the chefs didn’t hesitate when asked to create a flavorful low-sodium dinner for yours truly. So 
think of her when you feel nervous to make a special 
request. As the old adage goes, one person can change the world. Or at least a menu.Sha Re  :  143The Hands that Feed You
Now that we have explored the merits of sharing your food needs with others, let’s 
chat about how to do that, in the most charming way possible.
FIND THE OWNER
Whether you want your local grocer to carry a certain 
brand of low-sodium tomato sauce or you dream of 
being able to order a sandwich from your neighbor -
hood deli, the first step starts with getting yourself to said store and finding the owner or manager. 
Head over during a slow time of day (not lunch hour 
or dinner time), or even call ahead to see if you can arrange an in-person meeting. Then, get chatting.
Share your story—the whole story—of why you 
keep a special diet. Let them know your food wishes (order pizza, order a sandwich, keep a special stash of favorite low-sodium items). If you’re a regular or 
live down the block, make sure to mention it. Loyalty 
counts a lot.
Next, turn it back to them and ask what you can do to 
help make these accommodations easy and possible 
(like make dinner reservations early in the evening versus during the later rush hours, provide your own 
pizza sauce or bread, bring in the names and numbers 
of your favorite low-sodium suppliers).
Finally, see what kind of deal you can drum up. The 
worst thing that can happen is that they say no to 
your requests, while the best result is that you may pave the way for yourself and others to eat at your favorite joints.TEACH FRIENDS TO COOK
Here’s another fun truth about learning to cook low-sodium food: You may very quickly become one of 
the most adventurous and fearless cooks you know. 
You’ll find that your enthusiasm for all things food will quickly rub off on your friends. Invitations to your house for a meal will not be met with skepticism 
but excitement. In their eyes, you will become a 
master of the kitchen. And you’ll quickly become the go-to source for culinary inspiration (and answers to 
cooking questions).
I still giggle when friends hover above the bowl as 
I prepare a salad, asking me about each ingredient, 
exclaiming that they never thought to mix those things 
together or use that particular spice. Or when I arrive at someone else’s party to find a stressed host, with an incomplete shopping list or the wrong ingredients, 
asking me for a recipe remedy or an ingredient 
substitution. Whoever thought that I, the one with the dietary limits, would become a cooking resource for 
others?
But it makes sense. Because when you are always 
working around a missing ingredient, you gain great 
confidence in thinking on your feet. You learn how to 
work with what you have or find taste enhancers in unexpected places. And you’ll quickly discover that your dietary limits do not exclude you from the world 
of food and social interactions; they actually put you 
at the center of them. If you let them.144  :  LOW-SO GOODMAKE FRIENDS WHO 
MAKE FOOD
Thanks to researchers, we have scientific data that 
proves eating with others makes us happier and 
healthier. Beyond creating memories over a big pot of 
lamb stew, sharing meals actually leads us to choose better food, make healthier choices, and motivate others to do the same. It’s the best kind of peer 
pressure.
You may find that because it’s budget friendly or 
just plain fun friendly, your pals will start to choose 
cooking together over silently watching a movie, 
spending big bucks at a restaurant, or shouting over loud music at a bar.
You may also discover that, thanks to all those 
cooking shows on TV, a lot of your friends have fallen in love with their kitchens, too, and are inspired to 
experiment and tinker on their own. That they’re 
excited to take on new cooking challenges. This is where things get really fun. With your positive attitude and creative food, you may even move 
them to take on low-sodium cooking. So if someone 
wants to give it a try, don’t turn them down. They may discover new dishes and spices that you never 
thought to try. It’s fun for them. It’s tasty for you.
I’m fortunate that I have a lot of fearless friends and 
family and know local chefs who not only find great joy 
in cooking, but specifically in cooking low-sodium food 
for me. They love to tackle salty challenges and then share the delicious results. In the spirit of sharing, I want to pass along their recipes and hopefully inspire 
you to build your own circle of generous food-makers.friends who make falafel
I’ve found that because of my low-sodium food needs, 
I tend to form close relationships with the host, wait-
ers, and kitchen staff of a restaurant. This not only 
ensures that the food I eat is safe for me, but ends up making the eating-out experience more personal. So get ready to add chefs to your list of best buddies. 
Once you find restaurants that happily cater to your 
needs, you’ll eat there often, and you’ll feel like you’re eating with friends.
Firefly in San Francisco is one of those places for me. 
We stop in weekly for a bite and to say hello. Each time we eat with them, they use their freshest ingre-
dients to create something low-sodium and stunning. 
I’m delighted to share one such recipe (see page 147) by chef Haley Sausner, in hopes of inspiring some new friendships of your own.
friends who make bread
I knew from the first date with my husband that he was the guy for me. But what I didn’t know then was that 
with him came a family of low-sodium adventurers 
who constantly take on my challenges as their own. For example, his sister’s boyfriend is an incredibly skilled self-taught baker who makes me special salt-free bread 
loaves all the time, like the Super-Simple Sandwich 
Bread on page 149. Which is now yours to make, too. I’ve given instructions for mixing the dough by hand; 
but you can also use a stand mixer with a dough hook.
 Sha Re  :  145
TEN Ways to Use Bread  
Beyond Sandwiches
Now that you have fresh loaves of low-sodium bread, 
you can make a huge variety of bread-based dishes 
you may have previously avoided. Following are sug -
gestions to get you started. Search online for recipes and instructions. Add your own dishes to the list. And 
remember to use the salt-free-ing skills you learned 
earlier (see page  84) to make them fit within your low-
sodium and other dietary needs.
 +Make “egg in a hole”
 +Make French toast
 +Make panzanella salad
 +Make bread pudding—sweet or savory
 +Make (and freeze) bread crumbs
 +Make PB&J bread cake by layering square or round 
slices with salt-free peanut butter and fresh fruit
 +Make Tuscan bread soup
 +Make stuffing
 +Grill (or toast) bread and cover with pesto for bread pizzas
 +Feed the birdsfriends who make soup
Once a month or so, I get a text out of the blue from my friend Visra. “When are you home today? I have a 
soup for you,” it says. And a few hours later, contain-
ers filled with slow-cooked lentils, star anise–spiced beef stews, and a variety of other creations arrive on my doorstep. Visra, who’s just slightly bigger than her 
stockpot, keeps to a weekly tradition of making stock, 
from scratch, with leftover bones, without salt. Then she turns that savory base into a soup that warms your 
worries away. One of my favorites is called Comfort 
Soup, and the recipe is on page 150 so you can make it for yourself, a friend who’s sick, a friend who’s a new parent, or anyone who deserves a soup surprise. 
Freeze what you don’t eat for nights when you need 
an edible hug. To make your homemade soup simpler, spend a slow weekend night making the stock from 
this recipe. It only takes 30-ish minutes. Refrigerate it, 
or freeze. You’ll have the base for a quick, savory soup or stew any day of the week.
friends who make pancakes
When I was just beginning to dive into my low-  
sodium diet, a few of my friends also began to get 
more acquainted with their kitchens. One friend was 
Mei, a genius at many things, who eventually trans-formed her casual dinner parties into a full-fledged, award-winning food-truck business and restaurant 
in Boston. Uh, right . . . overachiever. At her wedding, 
Mei catered all the food, including roasting a whole pig. She also made sure I had a low-sodium version of 
everything on the menu, from pickles to BBQ sauce to 
that roasted pig. And the pancake on page 151.146  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Cut the pancakes into triangles and serve with a 
drizzle of Carrot–Sweet Onion Dressing (page  169) or 
Orange-Ginger Sauce (see page  218). For dinner, keep 
the pancakes whole and serve with a fried egg or Duck 
à la Foung (page  152), shredding the duck meat and 
skin and offering one of the sauces on the side.
friends who make duck
Let’s talk about my father-in-law. He loves to make 
his own spice blends and rubs and then test me to see 
if I can name all the flavors. He also loves buying the 
largest piece of steak he can find and seeing if I can eat it all. Basically, he loves to feed me. And he specif-ically loves feeding me foods I thought I would never 
eat again. Like Peking duck, from scratch. And while 
I usually get to enjoy this treat on Chinese New Year, the recipe is on page 152, for any time of year. Serve 
with Mei Mei’s Green Onion Pancakes (page  151) and 
Orange-Ginger Sauce (see page  218).
For low-sodium duck, make sure to get a bird that has not been brined. If you purchase a frozen duck, factor 
in the extra time needed to thaw it, which should be 
done in the refrigerator inside a large container with a lid, to keep things clean and sanitary.Testing Oil Temperature 
Without a Thermometer
Frying foods at home used to make me nervous. 
Mostly because I didn’t want to deal with the 
aftermath mess. And I didn’t know how to test  
oil without a thermometer.
But frying foods doesn’t have to be intimidating (or 
messy). While a thermometer will give you an exact temperature, you can also test the oil with a wooden 
spoon. Place the end of the spoon into the oil. If you 
see small bubbles crowd around it, then the oil is ready to go.
As for post-frying, do not toss oil into your drain. 
Allow it to cool and then put it into a disposable 
container and discard.Sha Re  :  147
FIREFLY FALAFEL WITH HERB YOGURT
 makes   12 falafel   time   45 minutes (plus 24 hours for soaking)
1/4 cup [45 g] basmati rice
1/2 cup [100 g] dried chickpeas 
or garbanzo beans
1 garlic clove, peeled
1 cup [35 g] roughly chopped 
fresh baby spinach
1/2 cup [70 g] peas, fresh 
or thawed frozen
1/4 cup [7 g] roughly 
chopped fresh cilantro
1/4 cup [7 g] roughly 
chopped fresh mint
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1/4 cup [60 ml] lemon juice
2 Tbsp olive oil, plus 
more for frying
HERB YOGURT
1 cup [240 ml] plain Greek yogurt
1 garlic clove, minced2 Tbsp minced shallot
1/2 cup [70 g] diced English cucumber
1 tsp finely chopped fresh cilantro
1 tsp finely chopped fresh mint
Zest of 1/2 lemon Soak the basmati rice and dried chickpeas in 4  cups [960  ml]  
water for 24  hours before you wish to make the falafel. Or if 
you’re in a pinch, put them in a small lidded saucepan, cover 
with water, bring to a boil over medium-high heat, and cook for 
5 minutes . Remove from the heat, cover, and let sit for 1  hour . 
Drain the rice and chickpeas.
In a food processor, pulse the basmati rice, chickpeas, and  
2 Tbsp water until the mixture forms a chunky paste. You want 
your falafel batter to remain firm and textured (not runny) so  
it holds its shape. Add the garlic, spinach, peas, cilantro, mint, 
green onions, lemon juice, and olive oil. Pulse until well combined. 
Use a spatula to scrape the sides of the bowl as needed.
Line a baking pan with paper towels. Add 1/2 in [12  mm] olive oil 
to a medium sauté pan or skillet and heat over medium heat. 
Form round falafel patties 2  in [5  cm] wide and 1/2 in [12  mm]  
thick (about 1/4 cup [60  ml] batter) and, when the olive oil is 
hot, add them to the pan in batches, being careful not to crowd. 
Cook until crispy and browned on one side, 3  to 5  minutes . Flip 
and cook for another 3  to 5  minutes . Transfer the patties to 
the prepared baking pan. Repeat until all the falafel patties are 
cooked, adding oil to the pan and adjusting the heat as needed.
To make the herb yogurt: In a small bowl, stir together the 
yogurt, garlic, shallot, cucumber, cilantro, mint, and lemon zest until well combined.
Serve the falafel patties warm or at room temperature with the 
yogurt sauce on the side.148  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Sha Re  :  149SUPER-SIMPLE SANDWICH BREAD 
 makes   2 loaves   time   2 hours, 30 minutes
2 cups [480 ml] warm water
2/3 cup [130 g] sugar
11/2 Tbsp active dry yeast
1/4 cup [60 ml] vegetable 
oil, plus 1 tsp
5 to 6 cups [600 to 720 g] 
white bread flourIn a large bowl, mix the warm water with the sugar until 
dissolved. Mix in the yeast and allow it to rest and get bubbly, 
about 10  minutes .
Add the 1/4 cup [60  ml] vegetable oil to the yeast mixture and 
stir. Add the flour, 1  cup [120  g] at a time, mixing it together  
with a spatula. When the dough starts to come together, transfer 
it to a lightly floured work surface. Knead the dough until no 
lumps are present, about 10 minutes. Don’t worry, it will start out flaky and then will get smooth and elastic.
Wash and dry the large dough bowl. Transfer the dough ball 
back to the bowl and pour in the 1  tsp oil. Use your fingers to 
coat the bottom and sides of the dough with the oil. Cover with 
a warm damp towel and allow the dough to rise until doubled in 
size, about 1  hour .
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. 
Remove the dough to a lightly floured work surface and cut it in 
half. Transfer the dough to two greased 9-by-5-in [23-by-12-cm] 
loaf pans. Using your hands, spread the dough so it reaches the sides of the pans. Cover the pans and allow the dough to rise for 
30 minutes .
Put the loaves on the middle oven rack and bake until golden 
brown, 30  to 35  minutes , rotating the pans 180  degr ees halfway 
through baking. Transfer the loaves in the pans to a cooling rack. When cool, remove the loaves from the pans. 
Cool and store in an airtight plastic bag for up to 3  days . To 
freeze the second loaf, wrap it tightly in plastic wrap or put it into a paper bag, and then place in an airtight bag with as much 
air removed as possible. Thaw the bread in its wrapping to 
prevent moisture from forming on the loaf. 
150  :  LOW-SO GOODVISRA’S COMFORT SOUP
 serves   4   time   1 hour, 15 minutes
SOUP STOCK
7 cups [1.7 L] water
2 lb [910 g] pork bones or 
1 chicken carcass from Sunday 
Chicken (see page 223)
2 medium daikon radishes, peeled15 fresh cilantro stems, no leaves
3 garlic cloves, peeled
Pinch of freshly ground 
white pepper
3 cups [210 g] shredded 
green cabbage
PORK MEATBALLS
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh cilantro leaves
4 garlic cloves, peeled
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1 lb [455 g] ground pork 
Pinch of freshly ground 
white pepper
1 tsp ground coriander
2 Tbsp chopped cilantro leaves
2 Fresno or jalapeño chiles, 
deribbed, seeded, and cut into 
1/4-in [6-mm] slices (optional)To make the Soup Stock: Put 6  cups [1.4  L] of the water in 
a large soup pot or Dutch oven and place over medium-high 
heat. Add the pork bones, cover, and bring to a boil. Turn the 
heat to medium-low and simmer for 20  minutes . Meanwhile, cut 
the daikon into rounds 1  in [2.5  cm] thick and bind the cilantro 
stems with kitchen twine or a heat-safe rubber band. Add the 
daikon, cilantro stems, garlic, pepper, and remaining 1  cup  
[240  ml] water to the pot. (You can also wrap the cilantro stems 
and garlic cloves in a little square of cheesecloth and tie the bundle with some kitchen twine, also known as making a sachet. 
Plop the aromatic bundle into your soup pot and tie the loose 
twine end to your pot handle.) Cover and cook for 10  minutes . 
Using tongs or a slotted spoon, remove the bones, garlic, and cilantro stems. Stir in the cabbage, cover the pot, and cook for 
an additional 10  minutes .
Meanwhile, to make the Meatballs: Add the 1/4 cup [7  g]  
cilantro leaves, garlic, and green onions to a food processor (or 
blender) and pulse until the mixture is finely minced. Transfer 
the mixture to a medium bowl. Add the pork, pepper, and ground 
coriander. Mix with your hands until well combined. Pinch off 1-Tbsp-size pieces of the meat mixture and gently roll between your palms, forming small balls.
Bring the stock back to a gentle boil over medium-high heat. 
Use a slotted spoon to carefully lower the meatballs into the 
stock. Stir gently and cook for a final 10  to 12  minutes , until the 
meatballs are cooked through. Serve the soup warm, garnished with the chopped cilantro leaves and sliced chiles (if desired).Sha Re  :  151MEI MEI’S GREEN ONION PANCAKES
 makes   4 large or 8 small pancakes    time   1 hour
2 cups [240 g] all-purpose flour
1 cup [240 ml] boiling water
3 or 4 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
4 tsp black sesame seeds
2 Tbsp sesame oilIn a medium bowl, using a wooden spoon or silicone spatula, 
mix together the flour and boiling water until you are able to 
form the mixture into a dough ball.
When cool enough to handle, pinch off one-fourth of the dough 
and cover the rest with a damp towel. On a lightly floured work 
surface, roll out the dough ball with a floured rolling pin into a flat 
circle about 6  in [15  cm] wide. If the dough is too sticky to handle, 
add a little more flour to the work surface. Lightly sprinkle one-
fourth of the green onions and 1  tsp of the sesame seeds on the 
dough and gently press them into the dough with your hand.
Tightly roll up the dough to make a cigar shape. Press the ends 
and seam closed and gently roll and stretch the dough into a 
longer snake shape about 12  in [30.5  cm] long. Coil the snake in 
a spiraled circle, and press the end into the coil. Roll the dough 
out again into a flat circle about 6  in [15  cm] wide. This double 
rolling technique means that the yummy green onion bits will be 
sandwiched between several thin layers of dough. And it’s okay 
if the snake splits and green onion slices come spilling out—it’s 
part of the appeal. Repeat with the remaining dough until you have four large green onion pancakes. Set aside.
Heat 1
1/2 tsp of the sesame oil in a large sauté pan or skillet over 
medium-high heat. Add one  gr een onion pancake to the pan at 
a time, cooking until crispy and browned on both sides, 5  to  
6 minutes per side. Place on a paper towel–lined plate. Repeat 
these steps, adding 11/2 tsp sesame oil to the pan each time, until 
all the pancakes are browned and crispy.
To store, stack the pancakes between parchment or wax paper in 
an airtight bag and refrigerate for up to 4  days . Reheat in a 400°F 
[200°C] oven for 5  to 7  minutes for sandwiches.152  :  LOW-SO GOODDUCK À LA FOUNG
 serves   4 to 6   time   2 hours, 45 minutes (mostly roasting time)
One 5-lb [2.3-kg] duck, neck 
and giblets removed
1 Tbsp whole coriander seeds, 
ground with a spice grinder 
or mortar and pestle
2 tsp salt-free garlic powder2 tsp ground cumin
2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp orange juiceRemove the top rack from the oven and put the other rack in the 
middle. Preheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Line a roasting pan 
with aluminum foil (or better yet, use a foil roasting pan that 
you can later discard). Place a roasting rack in the roasting pan.
Pat the duck dry with a paper towel and place it on a cutting 
board. Using a sharp knife, cut off excess fat at the neck and 
cavity areas. Use kitchen shears to remove the wing tips, or leave them on if you like extra-crunchy wings. With the knife almost parallel with the skin, make small slashes all over the duck skin, 
cutting into the fat but being careful not to go through to the 
meat. This will allow the fat to drip out and off the duck, leaving the skin to get crispy.
In a small bowl, stir together the coriander seeds, garlic powder, 
cumin, and pepper with the orange juice. Rub the spice mixture all over the duck, front and back.
Place the duck on the roasting rack, breast-side down, and roast 
for 30  minutes . Remove the duck from the oven and lower the 
oven temperature to 375°F [190°C]. Using two sets of tongs or big 
serving forks, carefully tip the duck, allowing the liquid and fat 
from the cavity to drain into the pan. Then flip the duck so it is 
breast-side up. Continue to cook until the meat is tender and the skin is crispy, about 1 hour and 20 minutes. A meat thermometer placed in the leg joint should read 175°F [80°C].
Transfer the duck to a cutting board and let rest uncovered for 
15 minutes before carving. Cut the duck into pieces or shred the 
meat to serve.154  :  LOW-SO GOODGifts of Health
During holidays and birthdays, a magical exchange happens: We give people lists of 
items we want and they give them to us to enjoy. It’s an act of love and generosity. And 
if you live with a special diet, it’s also the perfect opportunity to stock up on items that 
will help you eat well and with ease. 
But remember, while these suggestions are for you, 
they also make great gifts for your loved ones, too. By 
giving others your favorite low-sodium spices, sauces, 
and other secret weapons, they’ll be better outfitted to cook for you. As well as discover new ways to make food tastier, easier, and more exciting.
for the beginner
If you’re starting a low-sodium diet and stepping into your kitchen for the first time, your loved ones are in 
luck. Whether they buy you measuring spoons, pots 
and pans, or an electric mixer, you need it. Use sites like Amazon or Pinterest to find the products you love, and then make lists (with links!) so people can purchase 
them. If you’re looking for budget-friendly options, 
include goods from eBay and Craigslist as well.
for the artisan
List your favorite specialty products for your shelves and pantry. For grocery-store items, provide family 
and friends with brand names and even the store aisle 
where the product can be found. And for Internet-only products, provide links.
for the home cook
Make sure the kitchen is the happiest place in the home by adding simple pleasures, like radios and iPod docks to 
keep you grooving. Have mini vacuums and chemical-free 
cleaners handy to keep you calm when messes happen.for the bookworm
Get the gift of inspiration with a pile of new cookbooks and food-magazine subscriptions. And remember, 
even if the literary resource isn’t low-sodium specific, 
it can still provide plenty of ideas and instruction that will increase your confidence and creativity in the kitchen.
for the shopper
Don’t discount the power of a gift card. When it comes to being on a special diet, these prepaid presents 
mean fresh ingredients from favorite grocery stores 
and farms, home delivery services, and artisan prod-ucts. To make this gift even more special, your holiday elf can include a favorite recipe or a date night for you 
to enjoy the goods together.
for the time-saver
The right gadgets can make you feel like you have a 
personal sous chef in the kitchen. Hand blenders, rice 
cookers, bread makers, and even ice-cream makers cut 
down on the time and energy needed to make flavorful foods. Items like slow cookers will even make dinner while you’re out of the house. Easy to clean and easy 
to use, these utensils make from-scratch as simple as 
ordering out.Sha Re  :  155for the entertainer
You eat with your eyes as much as your mouth. So for 
the enthusiastic host or hostess, there’s no better gift 
than colorful napkins, plates, and serving ware. For 
something extra special, search on Etsy for tableware ideas or custom orders.
for the mover and shaker
Special diets don’t need to stop you in your tracks. 
With beautiful bento or tiffin boxes, mason jar mugs, spill-free storage containers, and small fabric coolers, 
you can take your homemade food wherever you go. To work, to the football game, and even on an airplane; 
have airtight containers, will travel.
for the experimenter
Take your cooking to the next level with hickory chips, 
dehydrators, doughnut pans, mandolines, baking 
scales, and other chef-worthy tools. These items make 
any DIY project doable and will help you make over your favorite recipes at home, or even create new clas-sics of your own.
for the kids
Give little foodies everything they need to take charge of the kitchen and their diet needs. Aprons, kid-safe 
cutlery, and a colorful stepping stool will enable them 
to take part in the prep work. Bento lunch boxes as well as colorful allergy labels and tattoos (by Safety-Tat) ensure that they will eat well and safely beyond 
the home. Bookmaking websites offer the creative 
guidance for writing a cookbook of their very own.11
Taste
The Six Low-So Cooking Commandments  
and RecipesTaSTe  :  157
TaSTe  :  157
e have arrived. The kitchen.
This is where the magic happens. This is your 
place to experiment. This is where you get to put everything you’ve learned into play—all 
those spices and oils, the pots and pans, and 
the stacks of cookbooks; all the inspiration you picked up from restaurant menus, 
dishes served at other people’s parties, and 
ingredients you’ve discovered while exploring cultures beyond your home.
This chapter is greater than the sum of its 
recipes. I introduce my Six Low-So Cooking 
Commandments—a total of six simple guide -
lines that will help you make more from less sodium every time you step into your kitchen. Each of the six recipe groups offers 
meals for every time of the day, breakfast 
to dessert, and even bigger gatherings and celebrations. You may notice they’ve been referenced throughout the book to help you bring each low-sodium lesson from the page 
to your  tables.
But unlike the real commandments, nothing is set in stone. I encourage you to follow the guidelines, but I also give you my blessing 
to break free from the directions. Adjust the 
spices, use what vegetables and herbs you have on hand, and make the recipes your own!Before you dive in, here are a few words about the recipes. W158  :  LOW-SO GOODcooking time
I’ve included estimates in each of the recipes for how 
long it might take you to make each dish. If you’re 
new to cooking, though, or if you have never peeled a 
butternut squash (see page  4 5), it may take you a little 
longer. Don’t get discouraged. The more you cook a 
dish, or cook in general, the faster you will get. You’ll 
eventually be able to cook several dishes at once, 
without burning them. So take your time and don’t watch the clock the first time around. And don’t fear long cooking times. Make a special date to get to know 
these more involved dishes. Most of the longer cook-
ing times are not spent actively cooking—the biggest chunk of minutes (or hours) usually takes place in 
the oven or the fridge, freeing you to do other things. 
Just check in once in a while with your pot or pan so nothing burns or boils over.
mix and match
Feel free to combine elements from different recipes to create a new dish. Really, do it. In the following 
pages, you’ll learn to make polenta, roasted chicken, 
and a lot of dressings, just to name a few. These are building blocks for any dish you dream of. And while they are paired with other components or include 
suggested serving combinations, they’re pretty darn 
flexible and interchangeable.
starting from zero
All the recipes use fresh, whole ingredients. Other than an occasional dollop of yogurt or jam or coconut milk, 
you will not find anything packaged or processed, not 
even canned beans or tomato paste. That’s because I want to start everyone at zero—zero salt and zero processed ingredients. This approach makes room for 
a lot of natural flavor. From there, cut corners when you need to, like using frozen hash browns instead 
of freshly grated potatoes, or precut, no-salt-added frozen vegetables, or salt-free spice blends. Or, if you’re not on a low-sodium diet, go ahead and add 
that sprinkle of salt. By starting at zero, you have 
ultimate flexibility and control of the sodium content in your food, for whatever your health needs and for 
whomever you feed.
sodium counts
The recipes in this chapter will help teach you how 
to make fresh, flavorful, balanced food without salt 
or processed ingredients; they are not meant to 
serve as a specific, nutrition-based plan. If you’d like to calculate the total sodium in a dish or the other nutritional contents, I highly suggest using 
nutritional calculators provided by sites like the 
USDA SuperTracker (www.supertracker.usda.gov)  
and MyFitnessPal (www.myfitnesspal.com/recipe/  
calculator). Make sure to also consult professionals and adjust recipes accordingly to fit specific health needs.
That’s it. You’re officially ready to roll. Set the table, 
tie on your apron, trust your palate, and let the sea-sons be your compass.TaSTe  :  159
160  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Six Low-So Cooking 
Commandments
thou shalt  
USE NATURAL FLAVOR
The best place to begin your low-sodium cooking 
adventures is with the natural flavors found in the 
ingredients themselves. Before reaching for the spice 
rack, boost a dish with fresh herbs, umami-filled mushrooms, and a burst of citrus. By employing the oven, the grill, and the blender, you can give even 
the most unassuming of ingredients (ahem, lettuce) 
a taste transformation. Use these recipes as the starting point for your own experimentations. You’ll 
discover the sweet, salty, bitter, sour, umami, and 
smoky tastes your food has to offer.
thou shalt  
USE COLOR AND TEXTURE
It’s time to channel your inner artist and start 
playing with a range of ingredients that add visual 
and textural appeal to every meal—especially those 
dishes that are all the same color or consistency. If something looks or tastes bland, you’ll find that a pop of green herbs, a sprinkle of red paprika, or 
the crunch of toasted nuts will fix the issue. Even 
broiling a pan of sauced noodles until the top layer gets crispy will give a simple pasta or casserole a 
welcome crunch. It’s that simple. Go ahead and 
dig into Mother Nature’s palette of colors and textures, accessorize your meals, and mix things up for your mouth and eyes.thou shalt   
STEAL
When it comes to cooking, stealing is totally acceptable behavior. Whether you take ideas from 
other cultures or other special diets, the tricks 
you’ll learn will liven up dishes of your own design. Sometimes, these food substitutions even make recipes healthier or more time-efficient than the 
original version. So add an element of surprise to 
your table—skip rice and use cauliflower instead; give gravy a curried makeover; and create candy 
out of dates. If it’s bad to steal, I don’t want to 
be good.
thou shalt   
REINVENT
Today, we live in a world where kale can be chips, 
bananas can be ice cream, and butternut squash 
can stand in for the cheese in mac ’n’ cheese. So 
if your favorite food or convenience items are too high in sodium, hope is not lost. It’s just time for an ingredient swap.
By reinventing recipes and replacing high-sodium 
ingredients with creative low-sodium stand-ins, you can enjoy your favorite dishes again. Yes, 
they may look or taste a little different from the 
original. But because you’re being creative, you’ll find that they’re enjoyable in a whole new way.TaSTe  :  161
thou shalt   
BE BRAVE
Have you ever done something that seemed totally 
impossible at first? Hiked to the top of a mountain? 
Completed a marathon? Got to work on time on a 
Monday morning? From small victories to huge accomplishments, we’ve all felt the powerful rush of pushing ourselves beyond what we thought was 
possible. Sometimes it’s not pretty (like Monday 
mornings) but once you know you can do it, it gets easier. And when you hear that little voice say, 
“You can’t do that!” you’ll be more likely to say, 
“Oh, yes I can!”
That’s what this section is about. Bravery. 
Conquering cooking fears and pushing aside the 
culinary roadblocks that keep you from trying the scary things. It’s about proving to yourself that you have the skills to make pasta or baked dumplings 
or ice cream from scratch. So the next time a 
seemingly difficult technique or recipe catches your eye, you won’t shy away. You’ll dive in, with 
confidence, even when a dish sounds complicated. 
Low-sodium cooking only gets better with a sense of adventure, and you’ll find that after making those “hard” recipes once or twice, you’ll soon tackle 
them without instructions, by memory and by feel. 
Transforming you from a timid cook into a fearless chef, willing and able to conquer any mountains (or 
croquembouche) no matter how intimidating.thou shalt   
WOW
Your final lesson in low-sodium cooking is all 
about showing off. No more apologizing for your 
low-sodium food. It’s time to be dang proud of 
it. Whether that means hosting dinner parties or giving edible gifts, your low-sodium creations deserve to be shared with others. They don’t have 
to be difficult, and they don’t have to be fussy. 
You now have all the skills you need to make simple, fresh, low-sodium food worthy of second 
helpings. You’ll find that you not only wow your 
friends and family, but you also might teach them something new. Start with these recipes for low-sodium bragging success. Then create some go-to 
showstoppers of your own. Because there ain’t no 
party like a low-sodium party.162  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
ROASTED FIG AND TOMATO SLOW JAM
Start with the natural umami found in tomatoes and the natural sweetness in figs. 
Intensify those flavors by a gazillion with the help of the oven. Add a bit of sour from 
balsamic. And get a jam, sauce, or spread that needs to be slathered over slices of fresh 
nectarines or bites of Easy Focaccia (page  238), swirled into a bowl of pasta noodles, or 
oozed over a juicy steak. You can also replace the figs with a fresh persimmon, roughly 
chopped and roasted with the tomatoes.
 makes   1 cup [250 g]    time   1 hour
24 cherry tomatoes, stemmed
1 Tbsp olive oil, plus 2 tsp
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
8 dried black figs 
1/4 cup [35 g] diced yellow onion
2 tsp molasses
1 tsp balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup [60 ml] waterPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C].
Place the cherry tomatoes in a large baking pan. Add the 1  Tbsp  
olive oil and the pepper to the pan, and use your hands to toss 
and coat. Place the pan in the oven and roast until the tomatoes 
blister and wrinkle, 20  to 25  minutes .
Remove the stems from the figs, cut the figs in half, and place them in a food processor (or blender). Transfer the tomatoes 
to the food processor and allow them to cool, about 10  minutes . 
Then blend until mostly smooth—there will still be chunky bits of fig and that’s okay.
In a small saucepan, heat the remaining 2  tsp olive oil over 
medium heat. Add the onion and cook, stirring frequently, until 
it begins to soften, about 3  minutes . Add the tomato-fig purée, 
molasses, vinegar, and water and stir to combine. Bring to a 
simmer and cook for 2  to 3  minutes . Turn the heat to low and 
cook, stirring frequently toward the end of cooking time, until 
the figs and tomatoes become a thick sauce, 20 to 25  minutes . 
Remove from the heat and let cool.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1  week .TaSTe  :  163thou shalt use natural flavor
DILLY CHIMICHURRI
This herb-based sauce is best known as a bright topping for rich, savory steaks. It’s a 
winning combination. But just because the equation works, doesn’t mean you can’t 
switch things up. Use the basic formula (herbs + acid + garlic = sauce) as inspiration for 
your own creations, and experiment with the herbs you have on hand. Don’t be afraid to play with texture (add creamy yogurt) or pair with other nontraditional dishes, like 
Dukka-Spiced Salmon Patties (page  187) and Curry Tofu Fries (page  217).
 makes   1 cup [240 ml]   time   5 minutes
11/2 tsp chopped jalapeño chile
2 garlic cloves
1 medium shallot, quartered 
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped fresh dill
1/4 cup [60 ml] vegetable oil  
or olive oil2 tsp apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup [60 ml] plain Greek 
yogurt (optional)1 tsp lemon juice (optional)In a food processor (or blender), add the jalapeño, garlic, 
shallot, and dill. Pulse until the ingredients are minced. Add the 
vegetable oil and vinegar, and pulse again to combine. Add in the 
yogurt (if using) and lemon juice (if using), and pulse a few more times until smooth.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .164  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
HARISSA HOT SAUCE
Most store-bought hot sauces will contain more than 100  mg of sodium per 1  tsp. 
But you can harness the same heat with the help of dried chiles, fresh chile peppers, 
and a blender. A homemade hot sauce allows you to play with countless sauce types 
(and chiles), beyond the tongue-scorching kind. So let’s start with harissa, a Tunisian 
hot sauce—or paste, if you make it thick—that adds a spark to everything it touches; including your eyes, so be careful. When handling chile peppers, I suggest you wear 
gloves. Once you master this hot sauce, explore other combinations of chiles from all 
over the world.
 makes   1¼ cups [300 ml]   time   40 minutes
1 or 2 dried chipotle, ancho, 
pasilla, or guajillo chiles
2 red bell peppers
2 Tbsp lemon juice 
1/4 cup [60 ml] canola oil
1 tsp ground cumin
1/2 tsp salt-  fr ee garlic powder
1/2 tsp ground corianderPut the dried chiles in a small heatproof bowl and pour boiling 
water over them, just covering them. Let soak for 30  minutes .
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to broil and line a baking pan with 
aluminum foil.
Cut the bell peppers in half and remove the stems and seeds. 
Lay the pepper halves in the prepared pan, cut-side down. Broil 
the peppers until the skin is charred, 15  to 20  minutes . Remove 
from the oven and, using tongs, put them in a medium bowl. Use the foil pan liner to cover the bowl and let the peppers steam 
for about 15  minutes . When cool to the touch, use your hands 
to remove the charred pepper skins and discard. Set the peeled peppers aside.Drain the rehydrated chiles, and reserve the soaking liquid. Use 
a knife (and wear gloves) to remove the stems and seeds. Put 
the chiles and bell peppers in a food processor (or blender), and 
add the lemon juice, canola oil, cumin, garlic powder, ground 
coriander, and 2  Tbsp of the chile-soaking liquid (or add more 
if you want it spicier). Blend until smooth; add a little water, as 
needed, for the desired sauce consistency.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 7  days .
note: If you make a thicker version of this hot sauce, you can 
use it in place of tomato paste for curries and stews.HOW TO PICK 
A PEPPER
By switching up your dried chiles, you’ll give 
your hot sauce very different flavors. Each 
type of chile packs a different punch (level 
of heat), so use this guide, ranging from mild heat to super hot, to pick the best pepper for your own preferred heat level.
aji: mild heat with some fruity flavor
ancho: dried poblano chiles, sweet with  
mild heat
pasilla: mild in heat with a licorice-like 
flavor
California: dried Anaheim chile, mild 
in heat
guajillo: mid-level heat with a tougher 
skin that requires a longer soak time
chipotle: dried and smoked jalapeño 
chiles that come in two different levels 
of heat: más suave (more mild) and 
muy picante (very spicy)
Chile de Arbol: bright red, mad hot166  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
SAUCE GRIBICHE
Chicken eggs happen to be yet another source of natural umami. Poached, fried, 
or scrambled—they make a simple, savory addition to any dish. Here’s a new trick: 
Gribiche! This egg-based sauce dances between a creamy mayonnaise-like dressing  
and a smooth egg salad, meaning you can use it in a variety of ways. Spread it on 
crackers. Mix it into a bowl of fresh peas (also rich in umami). Pile it on top of warm, 
roasted asparagus or cool, sliced radishes. Scoop it into your mouth with a fork. Make 
this sauce every weekend so you can add umami to your meals all week long.
 makes   ¾ cup [180 g]    time   20 minutes
1 medium shallot, finely chopped
2 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
2 eggs
1 to 2 Tbsp grapeseed oil  
or olive oil
1/2 tsp ground yellow mustard
1/2 tsp brown or yellow 
mustard seeds
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 cup [7 g] loosely packed, 
chopped fresh herbs  
(my favorites: chives, parsley, 
dill, or celery leaves)
Freshly ground black pepperIn a small bowl, combine the shallot and vinegar. Set aside.
Prepare a small bowl full of ice and water. Put the eggs in a 
medium saucepan and cover with 1  in [2.5  cm] cold water. Cover 
the pot and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. As soon as 
the bubbles are rolling and you hear the eggs knocking, take the 
pan off of the heat and let the eggs sit, covered, for 8  minutes . 
Use a slotted spoon to carefully transfer the eggs to the bowl of ice water. When cool enough to touch, remove the eggs from 
the ice water. Crack each egg and, while holding the egg under 
running water, peel off the shell. Separate the egg whites from the yolks into two separate bowls.
In the yolk bowl, slowly add the grapeseed oil a few drops at a 
time, stopping to whisk the mixture with a fork until the oil and yolk combine. Keep adding drops of oil and whisking, until the yolks become thick, smooth, and creamy. (This can also be done 
in a small food processor or blender.) Add the ground mustard, 
mustard seeds, and garlic powder and mix until combined. Set aside.TaSTe  :  167Use a clean fork to break up the egg whites into little bits. Drain 
the shallot and reserve the liquid.
Mix the egg whites together with the egg yolks for an egg-salad 
look and feel. Add the shallot, herbs, and a grinding of pepper. Taste the sauce. If you like vinegar, add a bit of the shallot 
pickling liquid to the mixture.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .
variation:  Keep the yolk “mayo” and the egg white bits 
separate. Mix the yolk “mayo” into a salad or sliced vegetables. Top with the egg white bits, shallot, herbs, and pepper for a 
layered look.168  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
AVOCADO GREEN GODDESS DRESSING
I’ve become obsessed with this dressing. The natural sweetness and creaminess of the 
avocado mixed with fresh herbs and tangy vinegar means one addictive combination 
that makes any dish praiseworthy. Massage it into a mix of raw vegetables, like kale 
or coarsely chopped broccoli. Mix it with raw zucchini noodles. Use it as a dip for rice crackers, or a spread for sandwiches. Swap it in as a sauce for almost any meat dish. 
You’ll be a Goddess convert in no time.
 makes   1½ cups [360 ml]   time   5 Minutes
2 garlic cloves, roughly chopped
1 small shallot, roughly chopped
1/4 cup [7 g] tightly packed 
fresh cilantro leaves
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh basil leaves
1/4 cup [15 g] chopped fresh chives
1/4 cup [60 ml] lemon juice
2 Tbsp lime juice
2 to 3 Tbsp olive oil
1/2 medium avocado
2 tsp apple cider vinegarPut the garlic, shallot, cilantro, basil, chives, lemon juice, and 
lime juice in a blender (or food processor) with 2  Tbsp of the 
olive oil and purée until smooth. Add the avocado and vinegar 
and blend again until well combined. Add the remaining 1  Tbsp  
olive oil if needed to get your desired dressing consistency.
Store in an airtight container, with a little water on top to 
prevent browning, in the refrigerator for up to 4 days. Pour off 
the water before using.TaSTe  :  169thou shalt use natural flavor
CARROT–SWEET ONION DRESSING
Remember how the natural sodium found in whole foods is your low-sodium secret 
weapon? Well, this carrot-based dressing is a perfect example of how to use those 
higher-sodium ingredients (carrot!) to your flavor advantage. Once you try this recipe, 
be sure to harness the natural sodium powers of other vegetables, like beets, celery, and artichokes, by making them into dressings, sauces, and drinks, too.
 makes   1 cup [240 ml]   time   20 minutes
1 medium carrot, roughly chopped
1/4 white onion, chopped
1/2 cup [120 ml] grapeseed oil 
or olive oil
1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
2 Tbsp lemon juice
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powderFill a small pot with 2  in [5 cm] water and place a metal steamer 
basket in the pot, above the water. Bring the water to a simmer 
over high heat and place the carrot pieces in the steamer basket. 
Cover and steam over medium-low heat until the carrots are 
tender, about 20  minutes .
Transfer the carrot to a small food processor (or blender). Add 
the onion, grapeseed oil, vinegar, lemon juice, garlic powder, and 
1 Tbsp water and blend. (The dressing will be slightly chunky, 
so if you want it smoother, add a bit more water or lemon juice.)
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.170  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
LEMON TAHINI DRESSING
Tahini, which is basically sesame seed paste, lends a nutty flavor without the nuts. It is 
commonly used as a base for hummus, and it also makes a rich and savory dressing for 
vegetables or noodles—and, as you’ll see on page 199, vegetable noodles. If you make 
it thick, you can use it as a spread. You could try also using black sesame seeds for a different look and flavor. Helpful hint: A store-bought jar of tahini will often come with 
the sesame oil and the “paste” separated. To mix without the mess, lay the jar on its side 
(with the lid on) for a little while, until the oil moves from the top to the side of the jar. Use a knife or thick end of a chopstick to stir and blend.
 makes   about 1 ½ cups [360 ml]   time   5 minutes
1/2 cup [70 g] tahini
2 Tbsp lemon juice, plus 
zest of 1 lemon
1/4 cup [30 g] roughly 
chopped peeled ginger
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1 tsp toasted white sesame seeds
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped 
fresh cilantro leaves
Pinch of red pepper flakesCombine the tahini, lemon juice, and ginger in a food processor 
(or blender). Blend until smooth. Add 1/2 cup [120  ml] water and 
blend again. Keep blending in water, 1/4 cup [60  ml] at a time, 
until the dressing reaches your desired consistency—thick and creamy like a sauce or runny for a dressing. Add the garlic 
powder, sesame seeds, cilantro, red pepper flakes, and lemon 
zest and pulse a few times to combine. 
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1  week .TaSTe  :  171thou shalt use natural flavor
GRILLED LETTUCE SALAD
This salad, generously contributed from Bruce Cole, publisher of Edible San Francisco, 
proves that a little heat and smoke will significantly transform any ingredient. Lettuce 
is as simple in flavor as ingredients can get, but just a bit of char suddenly adds flavor 
complexity and visual appeal. So remember, especially during the summer months,  
if you want an easy way to jazz up a simple dish, throw those unsuspecting ingredients 
on the grill.
 serves   4   time   30 minutes
2 heads Little Gem lettuce 
or romaine hearts
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 Tbsp olive oil or vegetable oil
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing (page 169)
2 to 3 Tbsp minced fresh 
chives or chopped fresh dillPrepare a charcoal grill for high heat or preheat a gas grill to 
high.
Cut the lettuce heads in half, slicing all the way through the root 
ends. Run under cold water, spreading the leaves apart to rinse out any dirt or debris. Spin dry in a salad spinner or shake dry 
by hand, and lay cut-side down to drain on a clean kitchen cloth 
or paper towels.
Put the garlic in a large plastic bag or baking dish with the olive 
oil and pepper. Toss to combine. Put the lettuce halves in the bag 
or baking dish and toss to spread the oil-garlic mixture all over the leaves and into the nooks and crannies.
When the coals in your charcoal grill are covered with white ash 
or your gas grill is at 400°F [200°C], lay each lettuce half cut-side 
down on the grate, directly over the coals. Cook for 5  minutes . 
Flip one to check if it is crisped and slightly blackened. If not, 
return it to the grill and cook for another 2  to 3  minutes . You only 
grill the cut side of the lettuce.
Once the lettuce is slightly blackened on the cut side, place it on 
a serving platter or individual dishes. Spoon the dressing over 
the lettuce and sprinkle with the chives to serve.172  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use natural flavor
LEMON CHICKEN ORZO
Store-bought low-sodium broth or stock can have around 100  mg of sodium per 1  cup 
[240  ml], depending on the brand. If sticking to a very-low-sodium diet, it’s best to 
make your own with bones and scraps and some time in a pot. But these days, I often 
skip making the stock or broth ahead of time. I’ve found that, with the right ingredients 
and the right recipe, you can make the stock as you cook your meal, like for this dish, 
which uses chicken thighs, squash, and lemon to create a bright and meaty broth, together in the pot as the orzo cooks. This approach lets you coax out those savory 
flavors using just one recipe. For those who can handle a little extra sodium, serve with 
grated Parmesan on the side. And if you don’t feel like prepping the butternut squash, swap in 1
1/2 cups [90 g] chopped broccoli florets instead, adding them during the final 
5 t o 10  minutes of cooking.
 serves   4   time   1 hour, 15 minutes
11/2 cups [210 g] peeled, 
cubed butternut squash
2 tsp olive oil
4 garlic cloves, minced4 boneless, skinless chicken thighs
Zest and juice of 2 lemons
1/4 tsp dried dill
1/4 tsp salt  -fr ee garlic powder
Pinch of freshly ground 
black pepper
Pinch of red pepper flakes
1 cup [180 g] orzoFresh dill for sprinkling (optional)Using a food processor with a grater attachment or a box grater 
(be careful of your fingertips), shred the butternut squash. It 
will look like shredded Cheddar cheese. Set aside.
In a Dutch oven or large saucepan with a lid, add the olive oil 
and garlic and sauté over medium-high heat, stirring often,  
until the garlic turns golden brown, 2  to 3  minutes . Add the 
chicken thighs and brown, 3  to 5  minutes per side. Add 1/4 cup  
[60 ml] of the lemon juice, the lemon zest, dill, garlic powder, 
black pepper, red pepper flakes, and 2  cups [480  ml] water and 
stir to combine. Bring the liquid to a boil and cook for 5  minutes , 
scraping up any browned bits on the bottom of the pan with a wooden spoon. Turn the heat to low, cover the pan, and simmer 
until the chicken thighs are tender enough to break apart with 
the wooden spoon, 6  to 8  minutes .TaSTe  :  173Add the orzo and squash to the pan, and stir to combine. Turn 
the heat to medium-low, cover, and cook until the squash softens 
and the orzo takes on a risotto-ish texture, 15  to 20  minutes . 
Be sure to stir frequently to keep the orzo from sticking to the bottom of the pan; add another 
1/2 to 1 cup [120  to 240  ml] water, 
as needed.
Take the pot off of the heat and use tongs or a fork to transfer 
the chicken to a medium mixing bowl. Use two forks to pull the 
chicken pieces apart, return the shredded chicken to the pan, and stir. Ladle the chicken orzo into bowls and serve with a 
sprinkle of fresh dill, if desired, and a sprinkle of the remaining 
lemon juice.TaSTe  :  175thou shalt use natural flavor
LEMON ZINGER BARS
Most packaged breakfast bars contain a lot of hidden sodium, more than 100  mg per 
bar, depending on the brand. But it’s easy to make your own morning-friendly treats, 
packed with healthful and perky flavors. This blend of eye-opening lemon and spicy 
ginger will put a spring in your step. If you’re not a ginger fan, mellow out the “zing” by 
replacing 1/2 cup [70  g] of the ginger with chopped dried cherries, dried apricots, or 
pitted dates for a slightly sweeter taste.
 makes   sixteen 2-in [5-cm] bars   time   1 hour, 25 minutes
23/4 cups [230 g] whole rolled oats
4 pitted dates, chopped
3/4 cup [105 g] chopped 
candied ginger
Juice and zest of 2 lemons
3/4 cup [180 ml] warm waterPreheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Grease an 8-by-8-in [20-by-  
20-cm] baking pan or line with parchment paper.
Put 3/4 cup [60 g] of the oats into a food processor (or blender) 
and pulse until the oats form a flour. Pour into a medium mixing 
bowl and set aside.
Add the dates and ginger to the food processor with the 
lemon juice and water. Allow the mixture to sit and soften for 
30 minutes . Blend until the mixture is smooth.
Add the remaining 2  cups [170  g] oats and the lemon zest to 
the bowl with the oat flour. Pour in the date-ginger mixture. Stir until well combined, and then pour the mixture into the 
prepared baking pan. Bake until the edges become golden 
brown and the mixture feels firm to the touch, 35  to 40  minutes .
Remove the baking pan to a cooling rack. When cool, remove 
from the pan onto a cutting board and cut into squares. Set the 
bars on the cooling rack to firm up a bit more, about 10  minutes . 
Store in an airtight container or resealable plastic bag for up 
to 1 week . To warm, reheat in a 375°F [190°C] oven for 6  to  
8 minutes or in the microwave for 30  seconds .176  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use color and texture
TOASTED PEPITA MIX
Giving ingredients a pleasing texture can be as simple as toasting them. And one of 
my favorite items to crisp up are pepitas, the tasty and tender inner meat of shelled 
pumpkin seeds. Tossed with spices, including coriander seeds (bonus mouth appeal), 
they make an easy snack or even a texture-improving topping for soups, mashed vegetables, fish, or other dishes of the “soft” and “velvety” variety. Serve the mix like a 
bar snack, add a drizzle of honey and combine with popcorn for a party mix, or blend 
with herbs to make a toasty pesto.
 makes   1 cup [120 g]   time   10 minutes
1 Tbsp coriander seeds
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 cup [120 g] no-salt-added pepitas
1/2 tsp grapeseed oil or olive oil
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp sweet paprika
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper
Pinch of freshly ground 
black pepperHeat a medium sauté pan or skillet over medium heat. Add the 
coriander seeds and cumin seeds and toast them until they 
are fragrant, about 2  minutes , shaking the pan or stirring them 
frequently with a wooden spoon or spatula. Transfer the seeds to a medium bowl and set aside.
Add the pepitas to the pan and cook, stirring frequently, until they 
begin turning golden and start to jump in the pan, 3  to 5  minutes . 
Add the grapeseed oil, garlic powder, paprika, cayenne, and 
black pepper and stir to combine. Cook for 2  minutes . Add the 
pepita mixture to the toasted coriander seeds and cumin seeds, 
stir, and let cool.
Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 
2 weeks .TaSTe  :  177thou shalt use color and texture
RAW BITES
Let’s talk appetizers for a moment. They are the opening act for the main dish. Good 
ones get you pumped up and those taste buds tingling. Which is why they’re the perfect  
items for playing with color and texture—something exciting that says, you like this? Just wait for what’s to come. All that sparkle doesn’t have to come at the price of long cooking times, however. You can actually create show-stopping appetizers in just a few 
minutes, using raw ingredients. Give these three a try the next time you need to create 
a tasty lineup.
NECTARINE GUACAMOLE
 makes   4 cups [910 g]   time   10 minutes
1 yellow nectarine, pitted and diced
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
2 avocados, mashed1 cup [140 g] corn kernels, 
fresh or thawed frozen
1 cup [155 g] halved 
cherry tomatoes
1 tsp coriander seeds
1/2 tsp minced jalapeño chile
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh chopped 
cilantro leaves
Zest and juice of 1 lime
Salt-free tortilla chips, raw 
vegetables, or small, square pieces 
of sodium-free nori for servingIn a large serving bowl, mix the nectarine, green onions, 
avocados, corn kernels, cherry tomatoes, coriander seeds, and 
jalapeño with a spoon or fork until combined. Add the cilantro, 
lime zest, and half of the lime juice and stir to combine. Taste and add more lime juice, as needed. Serve with chips, vegetables, or nori squares.
variations:
 Roast 2  cups [210  g] diced tomatoes in the oven 
for 30  minutes and add them to the guacamole for an extra boost 
of color and umami. You can also substitute 11/2 cups [270  g]  
chopped cucumber when nectarines are out of season.TaSTe  :  179
LIME-CHILI STREET CARROTS
 serves   4 to 6   time   10 minutes
6 large carrots, rainbow if possible
Zest and juice of 1 lime
1/2 tsp salt-free chili powderStart by peeling the outer layer of the carrots. Trim off the roots 
and most of the stem, but leave a bit of the stem because it looks 
quite pretty when you plate them.
Cut the carrots in half, lengthwise, and cut those halves in half 
lengthwise again. Put the carrots in a deep, square or rectangular 
dish or large plastic bag and set aside. 
In a small bowl, mix the lime zest and juice with the chili powder. 
Pour the lime mixture over the carrots and mix with your hands 
until the carrots are coated with all that lime-chili goodness. 
Cover and keep refrigerated for up to 2 hours. Or place the carrots on a serving platter, or in cups with the stems peeking out the top, and eat right away.
RADISH-AND-ONION YOGURT SPREAD
 serves   4 to 6   time   10 minutes
12 large Cherry Belle or 
Easter Egg radishes
1/2 cup [120 ml] Greek yogurt
11/2 Tbsp dried onion flakes
1/4 tsp salt-free ground mustard
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 cup salt-free pine nuts or 
walnuts, toasted and crushedWash the radishes, trim off the roots (if desired), and leave a bit of the stems. Use a handheld grater or a food processor with the 
grater attachment to shred four of the radishes. Pat or squeeze 
to remove excess liquid. Transfer the grated radish to a small bowl and mix with the yogurt, onion flakes, ground mustard, and garlic powder. Set aside.
Cut the remaining radishes in half lengthwise, and then again in 
half lengthwise (if radishes are large). Place them on a serving platter or large plate.
To serve, use a knife to spread the yogurt mixture on the cut side 
of the radishes and sprinkle with the pine nuts. Or, let guests spread and sprinkle on their own.180  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use color and texture
TOASTED RICE PATTIES
At Nojo restaurant in San Francisco, chef and owner Greg Dunmore treats me with a 
range of low-sodium delicacies from gyoza to chawanmushi to chicken-neck yakitori. 
And even fried pig feet. But my favorite dish? It’s the toasted rice patty, the simplest of 
them all. There are no sauces, fried panko crusts, or other tricks involved. What makes this dish so extraordinary? The textural contrast of the crispy exterior and the pillowy 
rice center. And when you add a spritz of lemon juice, a sprinkle of nori (dried seaweed) 
confetti, and some black sesame seeds, you’ve got a feast for the mouth and the eyes.
 makes   4 patties   time   1 hour, 15 minutes (mostly in the rice cooker)
1 cup [200 g] short-grain 
white rice (see Note)
1/2 sheet sodium-free nori
2 tsp black sesame seeds
1 to 3 Tbsp sesame oil
1 lemon, cut into 4 wedgesUsing a fine-mesh sieve placed over a bowl, rinse the rice 
under running water, stirring it with your hands until the water 
looks almost clear, 30  seconds or so. Put the rice and 11/2 cups  
[360  ml] water into a rice cooker, cover, and turn on. When the 
rice is cooked, fluff and let sit on warm, with the lid closed for 
30 minutes .
Meanwhile, use scissors to cut the nori into strips 1/2 in [12 mm] 
long, like little nori sprinkles. Set aside.
Transfer the rice to a large bowl or baking pan, add the sesame 
seeds, and stir until combined. Let the rice cool, 10  to 15  minutes . 
With oiled or wet hands, take one-fourth of the rice and pack 
it into a tight, hockey puck–like disc, round in shape with a 
flat top and bottom. This shape provides a good surface area 
for toasting, which is what you want. If the rice sticks to your fingers too much, put it in a wet towel or in some plastic wrap or use a ring mold placed on top of wax paper to help you pack and 
shape it. Repeat to make four rice patties. Set aside.TaSTe  :  181
In a large skillet, heat 1  Tbsp of the sesame oil over medium-high 
heat. Add two of the rice patties at a time, or whatever fits in the 
pan without crowding. Cook until the bottoms turn golden and 
crispy, 8  to 10  minutes . Flip and cook the other sides, another 
8 to 10  minutes . Continue until all the patties have been toasted, 
adding more oil and adjusting the heat as needed.
Sprinkle the warm, toasted rice patties with the nori strips and 
serve with the lemon wedges alongside.
notes: Sushi begins with short-grain white rice (now often 
labeled as “sushi rice” in stores). This type of rice is starchier than 
long-grain rice, which is what makes it sticky and hold together. So don’t try to substitute, because you’ll end up with a nice pilaf instead of a pillow of rice. To make sushi and rice balls (onigiri), 
the steamed rice is seasoned with salt (and sugar and vinegar, in 
the case of sushi). So be aware and make your own sushi and rice balls at home. 
If you have time, you can also put the shaped rice patties into the 
refrigerator until chilled (or overnight) for an extra-crispy crust.182  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt use color and texture
KALE SALADS FOR 
DIFFERENT SEASONS
Long before kale was a big thing, the leaves were often used as a dark green back-
drop for party platters of fresh vegetables. Remember that? While we didn’t totally 
appreciate kale for its taste quite yet, people appreciated kale for its good looks and 
ability to highlight other colorful ingredients. I love using kale leaves for salads for that reason. And yes, I like leaving them raw, too. The sturdy kale leaves easily soften 
with a little olive oil and lemon, while still retaining their vibrant color. Kale looks (and 
tastes) great with a range of fruits and vegetables, including orange scalloped squash and summer stone fruit, bright green avocados, golden toasted pepitas, and ruby 
pomegranate seeds. So use these two recipes as a starting point to explore all things 
kale. Because kale is pretty much the little black dress of vegetables, you can dress it up for any season. (Note: Because every bunch of kale is different in size, a good 
rule of thumb is that 24  big kale leaves, without the tough bottom stems, will make 
approximately 6  cups [360  g] kale ribbons.)TaSTe  :  183ROASTED SQUASH AND KALE SALAD
 serves   4 to 6   time   1 hour
2 delicata squash or 
1 medium acorn squash
3 Tbsp olive oil
1 Tbsp honey24 large lacinato kale 
leaves, deribbed
Zest of 1 lemon, plus 
2 Tbsp lemon juice
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
Pinch of freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup [30 g] raw no-salt-
added pepitas
1/4 cup [40 g] pomegranate 
seeds (when in season)
1 fennel bulbPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. 
If using delicata squash, cut off the knobby ends and cut each 
squash in half lengthwise. Use a spoon to scoop out the seeds. 
Cut each squash in half crosswise into half-moon shapes 1  in  
[2.5 cm] thick. If using acorn squash, peel the skin, then cut off 
the ends and set the squash upright on one of the cut ends. Slice 
down from the top, cutting the squash in half. Use a spoon to 
scoop out the seeds. Cut each squash half crosswise into half-
moon shapes 1  in [2.5  cm] thick. Cut those slices crosswise in 
half again.
In a medium bowl, combine the squash, 2  Tbsp of the olive oil, 
and the honey and use your hands to mix everything together. 
Put the squash slices in a large baking pan in a single layer, and 
bake until fork-tender, 35  to 40  minutes , turning once halfway 
through.
Meanwhile, cut the kale leaves into thin ribbons and put them 
in a salad bowl or onto a large serving dish. Add the remaining 
1 Tbsp olive oil, the lemon zest, lemon juice, garlic powder, and 
pepper. Use your hands to massage the mixture into the kale 
until it becomes soft, 2  to 3  minutes . Set aside.
Heat a dry, medium sauté pan or skillet over medium-high heat. 
Add the pepitas and toast, stirring frequently, until they turn 
golden and begin to pop, 3  to 5  minutes . Add the warm pepitas 
and the pomegranate seeds to the kale, and use tongs or salad spoons to mix until combined.
Cut the root end from the fennel. Remove any discolored outer 
layers. Using a mandoline, or really good knife skills, thinly slice the fennel bulb. Add the fennel slices to the kale. Add the baked 
squash slices, toss again to combine, and serve immediately.184  :  LOW-SO GOODKALE COBB SALAD
 serves   4 to 6   time   20 minutes
2 Tbsp olive oil
Zest and juice of 1 lemon
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
2 large avocados, halved and pitted
24 large Lacinato kale 
leaves, deribbed
1 cup [140 g] corn kernels, 
fresh or thawed frozen
1 nectarine, pitted and diced
4 to 6 radishes, trimmed 
and thinly sliced
2 hard-boiled eggs (see 
page 166), finely choppedIn a large mixing bowl, combine 1  Tbsp of the olive oil, the lemon 
zest, 2  Tbsp of the lemon juice, and the garlic powder. Scoop out 
half of an avocado, add it to the bowl, and use a fork to mash it 
with the other ingredients until you have a creamy dressing.
Cut the kale leaves into thin ribbons and add them to the 
dressing. Use your hands to massage the dressing into the kale 
until it becomes soft, 2  to 3  minutes . Taste and add the remaining 
1 Tbsp olive oil or more lemon juice if needed. Set aside.
Cut the remaining avocado into 1/2-in [12-mm] cubes.
Place the kale mixture into a salad bowl or onto a large serving 
dish. For a traditional composition, starting on one side, put a 
row of corn kernels, a row of nectarine cubes, a row of cubed avocado, a row of sliced radishes, and a row of chopped hard-
boiled eggs. Or use tongs or salad spoons to mix everything 
together. Cover and refrigerate until ready to serve, up to 3  days .TaSTe  :  187thou shalt use color and texture
DUKKA-SPICED SALMON PATTIES
Recipes that involve bread crumbs—from meatballs to casseroles—always pose a sodium 
challenge because they contain bread (remember the CDC top-culprit list?) and salty 
seasonings. Some products can equal more than 1,600  mg of sodium per 1  cup [110  g].
By using a nut-based replacement, you can make a low-sodium substitution while enhancing the color and texture of the dish. Enter dukka spice, a blend of toasted nuts, 
seeds, and spices that can be mixed into yogurt or olive oil as a spread, sprinkled on 
salads and soups, or folded into your burgers and meatballs in place of seasoned bread crumbs. The chickpea flour in the recipe binds the patties together, while the dukka spice 
provides the bulk and flavor. Since you can use any salt-free nuts or spices to make dukka, 
experiment with your own blends for different levels of warmth, nuttiness, and heat.
 makes   6 to 8 patties   time   1 hour (mostly chilling in the fridge)
11/2 lb [680 g] salmon fillets, 
skin on and deboned
1 recipe Dukka Spice Mix (page 188)
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1/4 white onion, finely diced
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped 
fresh cilantro or basil 
Zest of 1 lemon, plus 
1/2 lemon for squeezing
1 egg, lightly beaten3 Tbsp chickpea flour, or 
1/4 cup 
[15 g] panko bread crumbsVegetable oil for frying
Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing (page 169) or 
Greek yogurt for servingPreheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a baking pan with 
parchment paper.
Place the salmon fillets skin-side down in the prepared baking 
pan. Bake until the fish turns light pink, 10  to 12  minutes . Transfer 
to a plate. Once cool enough to handle, peel off and discard the 
salmon skin. Put a fresh piece of parchment in the baking pan.
Using two forks, flake the cooked salmon into small pieces and 
transfer to a large mixing bowl. Add the dukka, green onions, white onion, cilantro, lemon zest, egg, and chickpea flour. Stir to 
combine. Make small salmon patties, 2
1/2 in [6 cm] wide, using 
about 1/2 cup [90 g] of the mixture per patty. Place the patties 
in the prepared baking pan. Cover with aluminum foil or plastic 
wrap and refrigerate for 30  minutes , or overnight, to help the 
patties firm up for successful frying.
continuedDUKKA SPICE MIX
 makes   ¾ cup [85 g]   
 time   10 minutes
3/4 cup [90 g] toasted salt-
free pepitas, pine nuts, 
pistachios, or almonds
2 Tbsp white sesame seeds
2 Tbsp coriander seeds
1 Tbsp cumin seeds
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Heat a medium skillet or sauté pan over 
medium-high heat. Add the pepitas 
and toast, stirring frequently, until 
they turn golden and begin to pop, 
3 to 5  minutes . Transfer the pepitas to 
a small mixing bowl. Add the sesame seeds, coriander seeds, and cumin 
seeds to the skillet and toast until they 
become fragrant, about 2  minutes .
Transfer the toasted nuts and seeds 
to a food processor (or spice grinder). 
Add the garlic powder and pepper 
and pulse until the mixture forms a crumbly powder.
Store in an airtight container for up to 
1 month.When ready to cook, line a large plate with paper towels. In a 
large skillet, heat 2  to 3  Tbsp vegetable oil over medium-high 
heat until the oil begins to ripple. Carefully put two patties into 
the skillet and cook until golden brown, 3  to 4  minutes . Flip 
the patties and cook for another 2  to 3  minutes . Transfer the 
patties to the prepared plate. Discard any browned bits from the 
skillet and repeat with the remaining patties, adding more oil 
and adjusting the heat as needed. Serve warm with a squeeze of 
lemon juice and a drizzle of dressing.
variation:  Want to make a faster version of this recipe for 
dinner? Simply coat even-size salmon fillets with 1  tsp vegetable 
oil each. Rub the dukka on top and cook the fillets as directed. 
Remove the skin and serve whole with lemon wedges or the 
dressing.TaSTe  :  189thou shalt use color and texture
ROAST BEEF AND  
MUSTARD SEED CARROTS
Let’s not underestimate the visual appeal of a giant, juicy hunk of beef and a sauce 
made from the roasting juices. But to make a meaty meal even more spectacular, pair 
it with a side that adds crunch and color, like burnt-orange Mustard Seed Carrots. As a 
side dish to your roast, the carrots offer a toothy bite, thanks to their sturdiness and a surprising pop from the mustard seeds. And as leftovers, the roast beef makes mighty 
fine sandwiches. Note: Keep in mind that cooking times for the roast beef may vary. 
Every cut of meat and every oven is different. If using grass-fed beef, start checking for 
doneness after 45  minutes of roasting to make sure that the meat doesn’t dry out.
 serves   4 to 6   time   3 hours, 15 minutes (45 minutes active time)
1 tsp dried dill
1 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2 to 3 lb [910 g to 1.4 kg] top round 
beef roast, with 1/4-in [6-mm] layer 
of fat, tied with butcher twine
2 tsp vegetable oil
4 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 red onion, cut into  
1/2-in [12-mm] slices
12 large cremini mushrooms, 
cut into 1/4-in [6-mm] slices
1/2 cup [120 ml] orange juice
1 cup [240 ml] water
continuedPreheat the oven to 325°F [165°C].
In a small bowl, mix together the dill, garlic powder, and pepper. 
Pat the beef roast dry with a paper towel and rub the spice 
mixture into the entire surface of the roast.
In a Dutch oven or cast-iron skillet, heat 1 tsp of the vegetable 
oil over medium heat. Add the beef and brown on all sides, 3  to  
4 minutes per side. Transfer to a plate and set aside.
In the same Dutch oven, heat the remaining 1  tsp vegetable oil 
over medium-high heat. Add the garlic, onion, and mushrooms 
and cook, stirring frequently, for 2  minutes . Add 1/4 cup [60  ml]  
of the orange juice and use a wooden spoon to scrape up the 
browned bits on the bottom of the pan. Cook until the onion 
softens, 3  to 5  minutes . Return the meat to the pan and add 
the remaining 1/4 cup [60  ml] orange juice and the water. Cover 
with a lid or aluminum foil, transfer to the oven, and roast for TaSTe  :  1912 Tbsp honey
1 Tbsp balsamic vinegar
1/4 tsp mustard seeds
3 garlic cloves, minced
12 large carrots, ends removed, 
cut in half lengthwise
1 Tbsp olive oil11/4 hours . Check the meat’s internal temperature by inserting 
a meat thermometer into the center part of the roast. When it’s 
done, the thermometer will read about 145°F [63°C] for medium-
rare or 160°F [71°C] for medium. If it’s not done, keep cooking, 
checking the temperature every 10  minutes until the meat has 
reached your desired doneness.
Meanwhile, in a small bowl, mix together the honey, vinegar, 
mustard seeds, and garlic. Set aside.
In a large baking pan, place the carrots in a single layer and, 
using a pastry brush, brush them with the olive oil to coat well. 
When there are 45  minutes remaining for the roast, place the 
carrots into the oven to cook alongside.
When the roast beef is cooked to medium-rare (or your desired 
level of doneness), remove from the oven, transfer to a cutting 
board, tent with aluminum foil, and let rest for 10  to 15  minutes . 
Place the pan with the meat drippings, onion, and mushrooms 
on the stove over medium-high heat and bring it to a boil. Lower 
to a simmer and cook until the sauce reduces by one-third, 12  to  
15 minutes .
Take the carrots out of the oven and brush them with the honey–mustard seed glaze. Return the carrots to the oven and continue 
cooking for a final 8  to 10  minutes .
Cut the twine from the roast and thinly slice the beef against the grain, making two to three slices per person. Top with a 
generous spoonful of the mushrooms, onion, and pan sauce, and 
divide the carrots evenly among the plates. Serve warm.TaSTe  :  193thou shalt use color and texture
CARDAMOM CAKE WITH 
COCONUT WHIPPED CREAM
It may seem impossible to improve upon a moist olive oil cake covered in heavenly 
coconut whipped cream, but with the addition of toasted coconut flakes and a 
pinch of saffron you’ll create welcome contrast in color and texture that makes this 
pillowy dessert even dreamier, with warm spices and bright citrus hidden in each bite. If desired, switch things up and decorate the cake with crumbled candied ginger, 
chopped pistachio nuts, or other nutty toppings you might have in your cupboard.
A day ahead of making the cake, put the can of coconut milk in the refrigerator. This 
makes the coconut fat, or cream, rise to the top, which will help you separate the 
coconut water from the pure white cream part for whipping. If your store has “coconut 
cream,” grab it. With no “watery” part, you can use the whole can to make coconut whipped cream. After frosting the cake, keep leftover whipped coconut cream in the 
fridge, covered, and use it throughout the week for a quick fruit parfait or on top of 
morning chia pudding or granola.
 makes   one 9-in [23-cm] cake   time   1 hour, 30 minutes
1/2 cup [120 ml] olive oil, warmed
2 pinches of saffron threads
11/2 cups [180 g] all-purpose flour
2 tsp sodium-free baking powder
1/2 tsp ground cardamom
Zest of 2 lemons
1/2 cup [120 ml] full-fat Greek yogurt
3 eggs
2/3 cup [130 g] granulated sugarPreheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Place a medium mixing bowl 
and whisks from an electric mixer (or the bowl and whisk of a 
stand mixer) in the freezer to chill. Grease a 9-in [23-cm] round 
springform cake pan.
In a small bowl, mix the warm olive oil with the saffron and let 
steep for at least 10  minutes . Remove the saffron threads and 
set the oil aside. In a medium mixing bowl, add the flour, baking 
powder, cardamom, and half the lemon zest and whisk together. 
Set aside.
continued194  :  LOW-SO GOODIn a large mixing bowl, whisk the yogurt with the eggs and 
granulated sugar. Slowly whisk in the saffron oil until combined. 
Add the flour mixture and, using a wooden spoon or spatula, stir 
until combined and smooth. Pour the batter into the prepared 
cake pan, smooth the top, and bake for 25  to 30  minutes , until a 
toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Set the cake on a wire rack to cool.
Meanwhile, turn the coconut milk can upside down, open, 
and pour out the thin coconut water until you reach the thick layer of coconut cream. Scoop the coconut cream into the cold 
mixing bowl. (Coconut water will keep the coconut cream from 
stiffening when whipped. If this happens, simply call your frosting a “glaze.” Remember, if you make a mistake, change the name and no one will know the difference.)
Add the powdered sugar and remaining lemon zest to the 
coconut cream and whip on medium-high speed until the coco -
nut cream thickens, 5  to 8  minutes . Put in the refrigerator to 
harden, 30  minutes or up to overnight.
Remove the completely cooled cake from the cake pan and place 
on a cake plate or stand. Use a knife or angled icing spatula to 
spread the thickened coconut whipped cream on the top of the 
cake, then sprinkle with the shredded coconut. Cut into slices and serve.One 13.5-oz [400-ml] can 
full-fat coconut milk, 
refrigerated overnight
2/3 cup [80 g] powdered sugar
1 cup [100 g] unsweetened shredded coconut, toastedTaSTe  :  195thou shalt steal
MAHARAJA-STYLE CURRY POWDER
For sauces, dips, and spice blends, I get a lot of inspiration for low-sodium flavor by 
looking at the ingredient lists on the back of bottles. When there’s something you want 
to re-create at home, like homemade curry powder, start by stealing ideas from the 
products that already exist. Then use the Internet or other cooking resources to find extra instructions, if you need them. Don’t be afraid to give the recipe a few twists of 
your own. 
 makes   ¾ cup [75 g]   time   5 minutes
2 Tbsp cumin seeds
2 Tbsp coriander seeds
1 Tbsp fenugreek seeds
1 Tbsp fennel seeds1 Tbsp brown mustard seeds
1 Tbsp cardamom seeds
1 Tbsp peppercornsOne 2-in [5-cm] cinnamon stick
1 Tbsp dried onion flakes
1 Tbsp ground turmeric
2 tsp salt  -fr ee garlic powder
2 tsp red pepper flakes
1/2 tsp ground cloves
1/4 tsp ground ginger
1/4 tsp saffron threads (optional)Put the cumin seeds, coriander seeds, fenugreek seeds, fennel 
seeds, mustard seeds, cardamom seeds, peppercorns, and 
cinnamon stick in a medium sauté pan or skillet and toast over 
medium heat, stirring or shaking the pan frequently, until the 
spices become fragrant, 1  to 2  minutes . Toast for another 30  to  
60 seconds , then pour into a medium bowl.
Add the onion flakes, turmeric, garlic powder, red pepper flakes, ground cloves, ground ginger, and saffron threads (if using) to 
the bowl and stir to combine. Working in batches, including 
the cinnamon stick, place the mixture into a spice grinder and pulse until you have a fine powder, and return to the medium bowl. Whisk the mixture together so that the spices combine 
thoroughly.
Store in an airtight container in a cool, dark place for up to 
1 month.196  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt steal
CAULIFLOWER-NUT “RICOTTA”
Low-sodium eaters share something very important with vegan eaters: They need 
to find tasty replacements for cheese. Luckily, vegan geniuses have already come up 
with fun ways to mimic cheese, for everything from macaroni (puréed cauliflower 
or butternut squash) to Parmesan cheese (nutritional yeast). And here’s one more: Nut cheese. A blend of creamy nuts, like macadamia and cashews, makes an awesome 
stand-in for spreadable cheeses, like ricotta.
With vegans paving the way, I decided to make a nut cheese, too—this time with 
cauliflower and pine nuts, for extra milkiness. It’s perfect for stuffed shells, cheese 
balls, sandwiches, pizza toppings, and spreading on salt-free rice crackers. Try this 
recipe, then make a nut cheese of your own. Play with different herbs, nuts, and spices.
 makes   2 cups [840 g]   time   20 minutes
21/2 cups [275 g] roughly 
chopped raw cauliflower
3/4 cup [90 g] salt-free pine nuts
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
1/4 tsp dried parsley
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup [60 ml] orange juiceFill a pot with 2  to 3  in [5  to 7.5  cm] water and insert a steamer 
basket. Add the cauliflower to the basket, cover, and steam until 
fork-tender, 6  to 8  minutes .
Meanwhile, put the pine nuts in a medium sauté pan or skillet 
and toast over medium heat until golden brown, 3  to 5  minutes , 
shaking the pan occasionally to keep them from burning. 
Remove the cauliflower and the pine nuts from the heat and let 
cool, 5  to 8  minutes .
In a food processor (or blender), combine the cauliflower, pine 
nuts, nutmeg, parsley, garlic powder, pepper, and orange juice. 
Process until you have a ricotta texture. Scrape the sides of the 
bowl with a spatula to get any missed nuts or cauliflower. Add a little water if the mixture is too thick. Pulse again to combine.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1  week .TaSTe  :  197thou shalt steal
CAULIFLOWER RICE, PEA, 
AND EDAMAME SALAD
While some may balk at the idea of raw food, heat-free cooks definitely know a thing or 
two about transforming uncooked ingredients into filling meals. Like this trick of giving 
cauliflower a fine chop in a food processor and turning tough florets into a soft pile of 
rice-like flecks. They’ll add bulk to your salad and soak up your dressing or fill up a roll  
of seaweed for a rice-free sushi snack, for those on Paleo diets. 
 serves   4   time   15 minutes
1 cup [120 g] frozen 
shelled edamame
1 cup [140 g] peas, fresh or frozen
3 cups [330 g] chopped 
cauliflower florets
1/4 cup [60 ml] orange juice
1/4 cup [60 ml] olive oil
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped fresh 
cilantro or parsley
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp dried dill
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes
1/8 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 to 2 Tbsp minced shallot
1/2 cup [70 g] salt-free pine nutsFill a large bowl with ice water. Fill a medium pot halfway with 
water and bring to a boil. Add the edamame to the boiling 
water and cook for 4  minutes . Then add the peas and cook for 
2 minutes . Drain the edamame and peas and add them to the ice 
water. Cool, then drain and set aside in a medium bowl.
Meanwhile, add the cauliflower florets to a food processor (or 
blender) and pulse until they have a crumbly, ricelike texture. 
Add the riced cauliflower to the edamame and peas.
Pour the orange juice into a small mixing bowl and, while 
whisking, slowly add the olive oil until well combined. Add the 
cilantro, garlic powder, dill, red pepper flakes, black pepper, and shallot. Whisk the dressing until well combined.
Put the pine nuts in a small sauté pan or skillet and toast them 
over medium heat until golden brown, 3  to 5  minutes , shaking 
the pan to keep them from burning. Pour onto a plate to cool.
If not serving right away, put the cauliflower-pea-edamame salad 
and the dressing in separate airtight containers and refrigerate 
overnight, or up to 3  days . When ready to serve, mix the dressing 
into the salad and sprinkle the toasted pine nuts on top.TaSTe  :  199thou shalt steal
CARROT VEGETABLE NOODLE 
SALAD WITH SPICY SHRIMP
Thanks to gluten-free and meat-free diets, as well as a vegetable peeler, vegetables 
no longer need to be the sidekick to a dish. They can be the star. They can be noodles, 
and they can remain raw or quickly sautéed, depending on the time and texture you 
need. I highly recommended making a bunch of vegetable noodles at the beginning of your week to use for weekday lunches or even quick dinners. Start with this salad 
and mix and match with other dressings, proteins, and soups for your own vegetable 
noodle creations. Faux noodle pho? Chicken–squash noodle soup? Spaghetti-squash spaghetti? Let that imagination and the peeler fly.
It’s best to use frozen shrimp to be certain of sodium content, because shrimp can 
sometimes contain extra sodium from brining and the use of salt solutions before hitting 
the market. For those who do not eat shrimp, replace with Curry Tofu Fries (page  217) 
cut into cubes. 
 serves   4   time   35 minutes
5 medium carrots 
(rainbow if available)
1/4 to 1/2 cup [60 to 120 ml] Lemon 
Tahini Dressing (page 170) 
4 oz [115 g] snow peas, 
washed and trimmed
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1/2 red Fresno chile
1/2 jalapeño chile, seeded and 
thinly sliced (optional)
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped fresh 
Thai or regular basilUse a vegetable peeler to make carrot ribbons or the grater 
attachment on a food processor or a box grater to shred the 
carrots. Transfer to a large mixing bowl and add 1/4 cup [60  ml]  
of the dressing. Toss to coat well; taste and add more dressing, if 
desired. Add the snow peas, green onions, Fresno chile, jalapeño, 
Thai basil, and cilantro and toss to combine. Set aside.
In a medium mixing bowl, mix the garlic powder, chipotle chile 
powder, and pepper until combined. Add the shrimp and toss 
until coated with the spice rub.
continued200  :  LOW-SO GOODHeat 1  Tbsp coconut oil in a large sauté pan or skillet over 
medium-high heat. Add the shrimp in batches, and cook on 
both sides until nicely seared and the shrimp are pink, about 
3 minutes per side. Remove the shrimp to a plate and set aside. 
Wipe out the pan if it is watery from the shrimp. Repeat with the remaining shrimp until all are cooked, adding more coconut oil 
and adjusting the heat as needed.
Serve the salad, accompanied by the shrimp, peanuts, and lime 
wedges in separate bowls and let your guests dish up their own 
plates.1/4 cup [7 g] chopped fresh cilantro
1 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1 tsp salt-free chipotle chile 
powder or salt-free chili powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
12 extra-large frozen shrimp  
with tails, thawed, peeled,  
and deveined
Coconut oil for frying
1/4 cup [30 g] salt-free, 
chopped peanuts1 lime, cut into 4 wedgesTaSTe  :  201thou shalt steal
CORN-BROCCOLI BURGERS
Whether you make Mondays meatless or limit protein intake, don’t skip burgers. But 
do skip the packaged vegetable patties, which can have more than 400  mg of sodium 
per patty, depending on the brand. Instead, get your fix with a mix of broccoli, corn, and 
spices. Serve in butter lettuce leaves, on top of a salad, or in between two slices of Easy 
Focaccia (page  238). 
 makes   10 to 12 Patties   time   30 minutes
11/2 cups [135 g] broccoli florets
1 cup [120 g] all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp salt-free baking powder
1/2 tsp salt-  fr ee garlic powder
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 egg, lightly beaten
1/2 cup [240 ml] water
2 cups [280 g] corn kernels, 
fresh or thawed frozen
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped 
fresh cilantro leaves
Vegetable oil for frying
Butter lettuce leaves for serving
Plain Greek yogurt, Dilly Chimi -
churri (page 163), or Lemon Tahini 
Dressing (page 170) for servingUsing a knife or food processor (or blender), chop the broccoli 
florets until they form a crumblike texture. Set aside.
In a medium bowl, mix together the flour, baking powder, garlic 
powder, cumin, red pepper flakes, and black pepper. Add the egg, water, corn, green onions, broccoli crumbs, and cilantro. 
Using a spoon or spatula, mix until well combined.
In a large sauté pan or skillet, heat 1  to 2  Tbsp vegetable oil 
over medium-high heat, making sure the oil is spread over the 
bottom of the pan evenly. Spoon the batter into the pan (1/4 cup  
[60 ml] batter per patty), making patties 21/2 in [6  cm] wide and 
about 1/2 in [12  mm] thick. Cook three or four patties at a time, 
depending on the size of your pan, until crispy and golden brown, 
3 to 5  minutes per side. Remove the cooked patties to a paper 
towel–lined plate. Repeat until all the batter has been cooked, adding more vegetable oil and adjusting the heat as needed.
Serve the warm patties with butter lettuce leaves, and slathered 
with yogurt. Store leftover patties in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 4  days .TaSTe  :  203
thou shalt steal
CAULIFLOWER STEAKS WITH 
CURRY MUSHROOM GRAVY
I admit, I was skeptical of cauliflower steaks. I mean, I love cauliflower. It’s a culinary 
chameleon. But steak? Really? Well, it’s true. Cauliflower steak makes a “meaty” dish. It 
won’t taste like a T-bone, but with the help of the mushroom sauce, it is substantial and 
savory. It requires a napkin, a sharp knife, and maybe a side of fries, of the potato or tofu variety. And it’s a worthy and healthful addition to your weekly menu. Be sure to save the 
extra cauliflower for Cauliflower-Nut “Ricotta” (page  196) or Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad (page  197).
 serves   2   time   30 minutes
One 11/2-lb [680-g] cauliflower
1 Tbsp vegetable oil
2 tsp coconut oil
4 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 white onion, diced
1 Tbsp diced seeded jalapeño chile
1/4 tsp coriander seeds
2 cups [140 g] sliced 
cremini mushrooms
3/4 cup [180 ml] canned 
light coconut milk
1 to 2 tsp Maharaja-Style 
Curry Powder (page 195) or 
other salt  -fr ee curry blend
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh cilantro leavesPreheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. 
Break off the leaves around the base of the cauliflower and 
set aside. Starting at the top and a little right of center of the 
cauliflower stem, use a large sharp knife to cut down lengthwise through the stem to make two steaks, each about 1
1/2 in [4  cm]  
thick. Trim any brown parts off the bottom of the stem.
In a large, ovenproof skillet, heat the vegetable oil over medium-
high heat. Add the cauliflower steaks in a single layer and cook 
until lightly browned, 3  minutes per side. Add the cauliflower 
leaves to the skillet and transfer the skillet to the oven. Roast for 
15 to 20  minutes , or until the cauliflower steaks are fork-tender 
and golden in color.
Meanwhile, in a medium lidded sauté pan or skillet, heat the 
coconut oil over medium-  high heat. Add the garlic and onion and 
cook, stirring constantly, until translucent, 3  to 5  minutes . Add 
the jalapeño and coriander seeds and cook, stirring frequently, 
continued204  :  LOW-SO GOODfor another 3  minutes . Begin adding the mushrooms in batches, 
so as not to crowd the pan, and cook, stirring often, until they 
brown and become soft, 8  to 10  minutes . Turn the heat to 
medium and add the coconut milk, 1 tsp of the curry powder, and 
the pepper. Taste and add another 1  tsp curry powder, if desired. 
Stir to combine, scraping up any flavorful browned bits from the 
bottom of the pan. Turn the heat to low, cover, and cook until the 
sauce thickens slightly, 8  to 10  minutes .
Make a bed of the cauliflower leaves on two plates and put a cauliflower steak on top of each. Cover with the warm curry 
mushroom sauce and serve sprinkled with the cilantro.
variation:
 For more bulk, break up 2 cups [220  g] of the 
remaining cauliflower and pulse in a food processor (or blender) 
to make cauliflower rice. Transfer to a medium bowl and  
combine with 1/4 cup [7  g] roughly torn basil leaves, 1  Tbsp lemon 
juice, and a pinch of freshly cracked black pepper. Serve as a base for the cauliflower steaks.TaSTe  :  205thou shalt steal
DATE CARAMELS WITH CRUNCHY 
CHOCOLATE COATING
Date shakes. Date cakes. Recently, dates started taking over the dessert section, which 
makes sense since they add natural sweetness and a pop of sugary crystals to recipes. 
Because they’re sticky, they act as a perfect binder for granola bars and cookies. And 
when heated in a pan, they also make a great stand-in for caramel.
Although homemade caramels are generally low in sodium as long as you skip salted 
butter and salt, this recipe is a perfect example of how easily you can boost the flavor of 
a dish just by switching up the ingredients—like dates for sugar, coconut oil for butter, and coconut milk for heavy cream. If you want to see what the date hype is about, give 
this recipe a try and get ready to be impressed. Cover your date caramels in chocolate 
and chopped candied ginger, crushed nuts, or toasted coconut—or even crumbled 
Salt-Free Bacon (page  93) for a real low-sodium surprise.
 makes   about 12 caramels   time   25 minutes (plus at least 1 hour, 30 minutes freezing time)
2 Tbsp unsweetened finely 
shredded coconut
3 Tbsp coconut oil
1 cup [180 g] pitted dates, 
finely chopped
1/4 cup [60 ml] canned 
light coconut milk  
11/4 tsp vanilla extract
1 cup [170 g] dark chocolate chips
1/2 cup [70 g] chopped  
salt-free ginger candy (or pistachios, walnuts, or extra 
toasted coconut flakes)Put the shredded coconut in a large sauté pan or skillet and 
toast over medium-high heat until golden brown, 2  to 3  minutes . 
Watch carefully and stir often to get even color. Pour onto a 
plate and set aside.
In a small saucepan over medium heat, add 1  Tbsp of the coconut 
oil and the dates. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the dates melt 
into a caramel-  lik e consistency, about 5  minutes . Stir in the 
coconut milk, 1  tsp of the vanilla, and the toasted coconut and 
cook until the mixture comes together and thickens slightly, 3  to  
5 minutes .
continuedTaSTe  :  207Place a 5-by-13-in [12-by-33-cm] piece of parchment paper on the 
counter with the long edge facing you. Pour the date-caramel 
mixture onto the left side of the parchment, about 1  in [2.5  cm]  
from the edge. Using a spatula, flatten and spread the caramel 
until it makes a 4-by-4  -in [10-by-10-cm] square, about 1  in  
[2.5 cm] thick. Fold the right side of parchment paper over the 
caramel square. Place on a cookie sheet or flat plate and put in 
the freezer to harden for at least 1  hour .
Put the chocolate chips, remaining 2  Tbsp coconut oil, and 
remaining 1/4 tsp vanilla in a small saucepan over low heat. Stir 
constantly until the chocolate melts, 3  to 4  minutes . Remove 
from the heat and let cool to room temperature. (You can also 
melt the chocolate in the microwave, heating for 30  seconds , 
stirring, and repeating another one or two times until melted.)
Cut the date caramel into 1-in [2.5-cm] squares. Use a spoon or 
your fingers to dip the caramels into the melted chocolate, and 
then return them to the parchment paper. Sprinkle the tops with the ginger candy. Place the dipped caramels back into the 
freezer for at least 30  minutes before serving.
Store in an airtight container in the freezer for up to 1  month.  
Reserve any leftover chocolate in an airtight container in the 
refrigerator for up to 1  week and reheat for more dipping fun.
variation:  For those that don’t need to watch their sodium 
strictly, sprinkle sea salt on top of the caramels while the 
chocolate is hardening. For those watching their sodium closely 
but wanting to spice things up, add a sprinkle of cayenne pepper or salt-free chili powder.208  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt reinvent
MINI HASH BROWN QUICHES
Ready-to-use pastry dough can contain about 800  mg of sodium per 9-in [23-cm] 
crust. While you can always make your own dough from scratch, for a faster solution 
just use grated potatoes. Frozen hash browns are especially convenient. With a little 
oil and a quick trip to the oven, grated potatoes make a crispy basket to hold any sort 
of filling—from finely chopped vegetables and whatever herbs you have on hand to browned ground meat (like home-seasoned pork, to fulfill sausage cravings). For an 
easy breakfast, simply crack individual eggs into the crusts and let the oven take over.
 makes   8 mini quiches   time   1 hour
2 large Yukon gold potatoes,  
peeled and grated, or 4 cups  
[560 g] thawed frozen,  
no-salt-added hash browns
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 Tbsp olive oil or vegetable oil
2 eggs
1/2 cup [60 g] grated carrot
1/4 cup [15 g] finely chopped 
stemmed kale leaves
1/4 tsp dried dill
1/4 tsp smoked paprika
2 Tbsp waterPreheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Coat eight wells of a standard 
muffin tin, all the way to the top edges, with nonstick cooking 
spray.
Put the grated potatoes in a large bowl and mix in the garlic 
powder, pepper, and olive oil. Using your hands, press the 
potato mixture into the prepared muffin wells as you would a 
pie crust, covering the bottom and the sides all the way to the top. Bake until the potatoes turn golden brown and crispy, about 30 minutes. Set the crusts aside, still in the tin.
Meanwhile, in a large glass measuring cup with a pouring spout, 
whisk the eggs with a fork. Add the carrot, kale, dill, paprika, and water and whisk until combined.
Pour the egg mixture into the potato crusts, filling almost to the 
top. Return the pan to the oven and cook until the eggs set and are no longer jiggly, about 15 minutes. Serve warm.
variation:  When making Mini Hash Brown Quiches for 
brunch, sprinkle some with Parmesan cheese in the final minutes 
of baking for those guests who can handle the sodium.210  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt reinvent
BANANA-ZUCCHINI PANCAKES
Instant pancake mix from a box can contain more than 1,000  mg of sodium per 1  cup 
[130  g], depending on the brand. Let’s go beyond that box and make a mix that requires 
just a smidge more time. In the end, you’ll have puffy pancakes with moist banana 
bread–like flavor and shreds of healthful zucchini. Make a quick compote by adding fresh 
berries to the hot pan after you’ve cooked the pancakes. Add some ground cinnamon 
and drizzle on top to finish the dish. If you have the grated zucchini ready to go, you can make these pancakes on a lazy Sunday, a busy Monday, or any morning of the week.
 makes   6 pancakes   time   30 minutes
1 cup [120 g] all-purpose flour
2 tsp salt-free baking powder
1 large banana, mashed
1/2 cup [120 ml] canned 
light coconut milk
1/2 cup [50 g] grated zucchini
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp vanilla extractCoconut oil for frying, plus more, 
melted, for topping (optional)
Fresh berries for topping (optional)
Powdered sugar for 
sprinkling (optional)In a medium bowl, add the flour and baking powder and stir with 
a fork to combine.
In a separate medium bowl, mix the banana and coconut milk 
with a fork until well combined. Add the zucchini, cinnamon, and vanilla and stir again to combine. Add the zucchini mixture 
to the flour mixture, and stir until it’s the consistency of thick 
pancake batter. It’s okay if some banana chunks are visible.
Melt 2  tsp coconut oil in a large sauté pan or skillet over medium 
heat. When hot, use a spoon to add the batter to the pan, making two to four 3-in [7.5-cm] pancakes at a time, depending on the 
size of your pan. Cook until the edges of the pancakes start to 
turn brown and crispy, 3  to 5  minutes . Flip the pancakes and 
cook another 3  to 5  minutes . Remove the cooked pancakes to a 
warm plate and cover loosely with aluminum foil to keep warm. 
Repeat until all the batter is used, adding more coconut oil to the 
pan and adjusting the heat as needed.
Serve the pancakes warm, topped with melted coconut oil, fresh 
berries, or a sprinkle of powdered sugar, if desired.TaSTe  :  211thou shalt reinvent
EVERYTHING WAFFLES
If there’s one thing I really miss on a low-sodium diet, it’s bagels. With more than 
600 mg of sodium per typical 4-in [10-cm] bagel, that’ s too much for me to nosh on. 
Eventually I realized that what I really craved wasn’t the round circle of dough, but 
the spices in the bagel and the creamy cheese spread. So forget the dough circle and 
make these square (or round) waffles with a mixture of spices. Cover them in your 
own low-sodium schmear made of Greek yogurt or even Hickory-Smoked Fish Spread 
(page  228). T op with sliced red onions, sprouts, avocado, or just a fried egg.
Wrap individual waffles in foil and a plastic bag, and freeze for up to 3  months. Then  
thaw and re-toast in a 375°F [190°C] oven or toaster oven until warm and crisp, 2  t o 
3 minut es, for an easy weekday breakfast. And remember, you can also use waffles as 
a “bread” alternative for sandwiches. Try a Waffle BLT, or a Waffle Club, or Leftover Roast Beef on a Waffle.
 makes   6 to 8 big waffles   time   45 minutes
3/4 cup [90 g] all-purpose flour
1/2 cup [60 g] whole-wheat flour
1 tsp salt-free baking powder
2 tsp caraway seeds
2 tsp white sesame seeds2 tsp celery seeds
2 tsp brown mustard seeds
2 tsp salt-free garlic powder2 tsp salt-free onion powder
1 tsp freshly ground black pepperIn a medium bowl, combine the all-purpose flour, whole-wheat 
flour, baking powder, caraway seeds, sesame seeds, celery seeds, 
mustard seeds, garlic powder, onion powder, and pepper and 
stir to mix. Set aside.
In another medium bowl, whisk the egg yolks with the coconut 
milk and green onion and add to the flour mixture. Stir until 
combined.
In a third medium bowl, whip the egg whites until they form soft 
peaks. Gently fold the egg whites into the waffle batter, being 
careful not to overmix. You will still see some fluffs of egg whites in the batter, which is okay.
continuedTaSTe  :  213Preheat a waffle iron according to the manufacturer’s 
instructions, on a medium-high to high heat setting, depending 
on how crispy you want your waffles. Coat the waffle iron with 
nonstick cooking spray.
Add about 1/4 cup [60  ml] batter for the first waffle. Cook until 
toasted and crispy; after your first try, you may need to cook 
each waffle longer or increase the heat. Place the cooked waffles 
on a warm plate and cover loosely with aluminum foil to keep 
warm. Repeat until you’ve used all the batter. Serve warm.
variation:  Want a wheat-free alternative? Make potato 
waffles. Simply omit both the flours, baking powder, and coconut 
milk. Grate a large, peeled Yukon gold potato to make 2  cups  
[300  g] of shredded hash browns (or use frozen hash browns). 
Drain the potatoes of their liquid, and mix with the spices, green 
onion, and a whisked egg. Cook as instructed, using about 1/3 cup  
[40 g] of batter per waffle and increasing the time as needed for your desired crispness. 
Makes 4  w affles .2 eggs, at room 
temperature, separated
1 cup [240 ml] unsweetened 
coconut milk
1 green onion, root end 
trimmed, thinly sliced TaSTe  :  215
thou shalt reinvent
FOUR FRIES
Not much can get between me and a potato. Especially of the french-fry persuasion. 
But for many people with kidney disease, who must not only watch sodium but also 
potassium, those spuds pose a problem. Fear not, though, because potatoes aren’t the 
only ingredients that can be cut and baked into fries. From parsnips to jicama, there 
are plenty of options. Pair with Dilly Chimichurri (page  163) or Avocado Green Goddess 
Dressing (page  168).
CRUNCHY PARSNIP FRIES
 serves   4   time   15 minutes
4 medium parsnips, 
root ends trimmed
2 Tbsp yellow medium-
ground cornmeal
2 Tbsp vegetable oil
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/2 tsp dried dill
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Pinch of cayenne pepperPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. Coat a large baking pan with 
vegetable oil or cover with aluminum foil.
Cut the parsnips into thicker french-fry shapes, about 3  in  
[7.5 cm] long and 1/2 in [12  mm] wide. 
In a large resealable plastic bag or a big bowl, mix the cornmeal, vegetable oil, garlic powder, dill, black pepper, and cayenne. Add 
the parsnips. If using a bag, close and shake; if using a bowl, 
mix with your hands until the parsnip fries are coated with the cornmeal mixture. Transfer the coated parsnips to the prepared baking pan, laying them out in a single layer. Bake until crispy, 
20 to 22  minutes , flipping halfway through. Serve warm.
variation:  Want a healthful topper for your next barbecue? 
Use a peeler to make long ribbons from the parsnips instead of 
fries, yielding about 2  cups [240  g]. Bake as directed until crispy, 
8 to 10  minutes . Enjoy them like onion rings.216  :  LOW-SO GOODCHILI POLENTA FRIES
 serves   4   time   1 hour, 30 minutes
3 cups [720 ml] water
1 cup [140 g] yellow medium-
ground cornmeal
11/4 tsp salt-free chili powder
1/2 tsp dried dill
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
Olive oil for brushingLightly coat an 8-by-8-in [20-by-20-cm] baking pan with olive oil.
In a medium pot, bring the water to a gentle boil over medium 
heat. Slowly pour in the cornmeal, stirring constantly. Add 1  tsp  
of the chili powder, the dill, and garlic powder; turn the heat 
to low; and continue stirring until the polenta is thick and the 
liquid is absorbed, 10  to 12  minutes . Remove from the heat and 
transfer to the prepared baking pan, using a spatula to evenly spread the polenta to the edges of the pan; the polenta should 
be about 
1/2 in [12  mm] thick. Put in the refrigerator to cool, 
uncovered, for 30  minutes or up to overnight.
Preheat the oven to 450°F [230°C]. Lightly coat a 9-by-12-in 
[23-by-30-cm] baking pan with olive oil.
Run a knife around the edge of the polenta to loosen it from the 
sides of the pan. Hold a cutting board on top of the pan and flip, letting the polenta fall out of the pan and onto the cutting board. 
Brush the top of the polenta with a little olive oil and sprinkle 
with the remaining 
1/4 tsp chili powder. Cut the polenta into 
fry shapes—skinny fries or thick steak fries, whatever you’re craving. Place them in a single layer in the prepared baking pan 
and bake for 10  minutes . Flip and bake for another 10  minutes , 
until golden brown. Turn on the broiler for the final 2  minutes if 
you want them extra crispy. Serve warm.TaSTe  :  217
CURRY TOFU FRIES
 serves   4   time   45 minutes
One 14-oz [400-g] package firm 
tofu, drained, compressed, 
and patted dry
3 Tbsp sesame oil
2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1 tsp Maharaja-Style Curry 
Powder (page 195) or other 
salt-free curry powder
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper or 
salt-free chili powderPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. Coat a baking pan with 
vegetable oil or line with aluminum foil.
Cut the tofu into french-fry shapes. Spread the tofu fries on the 
prepared baking pan in a single layer.
In a small mixing bowl, combine the sesame oil, garlic powder, 
curry powder, and cayenne. Using a pastry brush, paint the 
tops of the tofu fries with one-half of the seasoned sesame oil. 
Bake for 20  minutes . Carefully turn the fries, and paint with the 
remaining half of the seasoned sesame oil. Return to the oven and cook until the tofu fries become slightly puffy and crispy, 
about 15  minutes longer. Serve immediately.
DILL OIL JICAMA “FRIES”
 serves   4 to 6   time   15 minutes
1/4 cup [7 g] roughly chopped 
fresh dill
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup [60 ml] olive oil
2 Tbsp orange juice or lemon juice
One 1-lb [455-g] jicamaIn a small food processor (or blender), combine the dill, garlic 
powder, pepper, olive oil, and orange juice and pulse until 
smooth.
Peel and cut the jicama into french-fry shapes, about 1/2 i n 
[12 mm] thick and 3  in [7.5  cm] long. In a medium bowl or a 
shallow container, mix the jicama with the dill oil. Cover and 
refrigerate for 30  minutes , or up to overnight, before serving.218  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt reinvent
COCONUT “PANKO” PORK TONKATSU  
WITH ORANGE-GINGER SAUCE 
AND SUGAR SNAP PEA SLAW
Panko are Japanese bread crumbs, often found in the international foods aisle of the  
grocery store. They have a slightly nutty taste and a flaky, almost fried texture that 
typical bread crumbs can’t compete with—especially in a traditional Japanese tonkatsu  
recipe, where it serves as the breading for a deep-fried pork cutlet. Some panko brands 
only contain 40  mg of sodium per 1/2 cup [30  g], which may work for some people’s diets  
but may be too high for others. So when thinking of what had a similar nutty flakiness,  
I realized that a low-sodium substitution existed: Coconut flakes. 
 serves   4   time   1 hour, 30 minutes
SUGAR SNAP PEA SLAW
Zest and juice of 2 limes
1/4 tsp sugar
4 oz [115 g] sugar snap peas, 
trimmed and strings removed
1/2 cup [35 g] finely shredded 
green cabbage
ORANGE-GINGER SAUCE
1 cup [240 ml] orange juice
One 1-in [2.5-cm] piece ginger 
root, peeled and minced
1 Tbsp honey or sugar
1/4 tsp garlic powder
1/4 tsp sesame oilTo make the Sugar Snap Pea Slaw: In a medium bowl, mix 
together the lime zest, lime juice, and sugar. Cut the snap peas 
diagonally across the length of the pea pod. Some peas may pop 
out, which is totally okay; just collect all the cut sections and peas and put them in the bowl. Add the cabbage and toss to combine. 
Cover and refrigerate for 30  minutes , or up to overnight.
To make the Orange-Ginger Sauce: In a small saucepan over 
medium heat, whisk together the orange juice, ginger, honey, 
garlic powder, and sesame oil. Bring to a boil and cook, stirring 
frequently, for 5  minutes . Turn the heat to low and continue to 
cook, stirring occasionally, until the sauce reduces by half, about 
15 minutes . Set aside.
To make the Coconut “Panko” Tonkatsu: In a small bowl, 
mix the coconut, sesame seeds, garlic powder, ground coriander, and pepper until combined.
continuedTaSTe  :  219
220  :  LOW-SO GOOD
COCONUT “PANKO” 
TONKATSU
1 cup [100 g] unsweetened 
finely shredded coconut
1 Tbsp white sesame seeds
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp ground coriander
Pinch of freshly ground 
black pepper
4 boneless pork chops, 
about 1/2 in [12 mm] thick
All-purpose flour for dredging
2 eggs, lightly beaten
Canola oil for frying
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh cilantro 
leaves (optional)Using a sharp knife, make slashes in the fat on the pork chops. 
One at a time, place the pork chops into a resealable plastic 
bag or between two sheets of parchment paper and use a meat 
pounder (or a heavy skillet) to flatten the chops until they are 
1/4 in [6  mm] thick. Put the pork on a plate and set aside.
Set up a dipping station. Put 1  cup [120  g] flour in a wide, shallow 
bowl. Put the eggs in a second wide, shallow bowl. Put the coconut “panko” in a third wide, shallow bowl.
Fill a sauté pan with 1  in [2.5  cm] canola oil and heat over 
medium-high heat. While the oil gets hot, prepare a pork chop by dredging it first in the flour, then dipping it in the egg, then 
dipping it in the coconut “panko” crumbs, turning the pork chop 
until it is completely coated.
When the oil begins to ripple, carefully put the breaded pork 
chop into the pan. Fry until golden brown, 4  to 5  minutes . Flip 
and fry the other side for another 5  minutes . Place the cooked 
pork on a cutting board. Repeat to bread and fry the remaining 
pork chops.
Cut the crispy pork tonkatsu diagonally into slices. Sprinkle 
with the cilantro, if desired. Serve with the slaw and orange sauce alongside.TaSTe  :  221thou shalt reinvent
COCONUT “PANKO” FISH
Want a flour- and meat-free alternative to Coconut “Panko” Pork Tonkatsu (page  218)? 
Try this Coconut “Panko” Fish, which has all the same fixings. While this version calls for 
halibut, any other firm and fatty fish, like salmon, will work just as well. If you do decide 
to use a thinner fish, decrease the cooking time. Either way, make sure to get the skin 
and bones removed.
 Serves   4   Time   1 hour
1 cup [100 g] unsweetened 
finely shredded coconut
1 Tbsp white sesame seeds
1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder 
1/4 tsp ground coriander
Pinch of freshly ground 
black pepper
1 egg, lightly beatenFour 6-oz [170-g] halibut fillets, 
skin and bones removed
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh cilantro 
leaves (optional)
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw (see 
page 218) for serving
Orange-Ginger Sauce (see 
page 218) for servingPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C]. Line a baking pan with 
aluminum foil and place a wire rack on top. Coat the rack with 
olive oil cooking spray.
In a wide, shallow bowl, mix the coconut, sesame seeds, 
cayenne, garlic powder, ground coriander, and black pepper 
until combined.
Put the egg in a second wide, shallow bowl.One fillet at a time, dip the fish into the egg, shake to release 
extra egg, and dip into the coconut “panko,” then set the breaded 
fish on the wire rack in the prepared baking pan. Repeat until all four fillets are breaded. Coat the fish on both sides with olive oil 
cooking spray.
Bake until the coconut “panko” turns golden and the fish is 
cooked through, 12  to 15  minutes . Time will vary depending on 
the thickness of your fish—thinner fillets will cook faster. To 
check for doneness, tug at one fillet end with a fork. If it flakes 
off easily, it’s ready.
Place the fish on a serving platter or on individual plates. 
Sprinkle with the cilantro, if desired. Serve with the slaw and 
orange sauce alongside.TaSTe  :  223thou shalt reinvent
SUNDAY CHICKEN WITH 
ROASTED ROOTS AND FRUITS
Which came first, the chicken or the potatoes? Either way, they make an excellent pair. An 
iconic duo, some might say. But consider altering this combo by adding a few more friends 
to the party—namely carrots and fruit. The combination brings a sweet, almost caramel-like 
flavor to the dish, which makes a simple roasted chicken dinner something extra-special. For a seasonal fruit swap, instead of peaches or nectarines, use two tart apples (peeled) 
and 
1/2 c up [60  g ] dried apricots, halved. Save leftover chicken for weekday lunches and the 
bones for Visra’s Comfort Soup (page  150).
 serves   4   time   2 hours, 30 minutes (mostly oven time)  
ROASTED ROOTS 
AND FRUITS
3 large carrots, trimmed
2 medium Yukon gold potatoes3 peaches or nectarines, 
stemmed and pitted
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp dried dill
Pinch of red pepper flakes
2 Tbsp olive oil
SUNDAY CHICKEN
One 3- to 4-lb [1.4- to 1.8-kg] fryer 
chicken, neck and giblets removed
1 lemon, cut crosswise into 
slices 1/4 in [6 mm] thick
1 Tbsp olive oilRemove oven racks as needed so the roasting pan with the 
chicken-topped roasting rack will fit in the center. Preheat the 
oven to 425°F [220°C].
To make the Roasted Roots and Fruits: Cut a piece 11/2-in 
[4-cm] long from the thick end of one carrot. Using this piece as 
a guide, cut the remaining carrots, the potatoes, and the peaches 
into similarly shaped chunks. Put the roots and fruits in a large mixing bowl. Add the garlic powder, dill, red pepper flakes, and olive oil and toss until well combined. Set aside.
To make the Sunday Chicken: Using a paper towel, pat the 
chicken dry. Then use your fingers to gently lift the chicken 
skin away from the meat, creating little pockets. Slide the lemon 
slices between the skin and breast meat. While you’re at it, place 
some lemon slices in the main chicken cavity as well. Rub the skin all over with the olive oil, garlic powder, and black pepper.
continued224  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Place the chicken, breast-side up, on the roasting rack in the 
baking pan. Bake for 15  minutes , then lower the oven temperature 
to 375°F [190°C]. Put the roots and fruits around the chicken in 
the bottom of the pan, or in a separate roasting pan, if you want 
or need to avoid chicken fat. Cook until the chicken temperature 
reaches 165°F [74°C] on a meat thermometer, about 1  hour and 
15 minutes . If you don’t have a thermometer, you can also slice 
into the thigh near the bone to see if the juices run clear and the 
meat is white (not pink). If the chicken is not done, cook another 
15 minutes and check again. Use a wooden spoon to stir the roots 
and fruits halfway through roasting.
Transfer the chicken to a cutting board and let rest for 
10 minutes . Transfer the roots and fruits to a serving bowl and 
cover with aluminum foil to keep warm. Carve the chicken as 
desired, and serve with portions of roots and fruits alongside.1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepperTaSTe  :  225thou shalt reinvent
MACAROON CUSTARD TARTS
Just as with the Mini Hash Brown Quiches (page  208), shredded coconut offers a 
quick and convenient solution to making little pie or tart crusts without the sodium of 
prepared pastry crusts. While this recipe is meant to mimic those cute little custard 
tarts you see at pretty much every catered event you’ve ever been to, you can fill these 
macaroon crusts with anything. Go simple with jam and fresh berries. Go fluffy with whipped cream or meringue. Or go chocolate with a cocoa and citrus mousse. They’re 
so simple to make, you can try all the options.
 makes   twenty 2-in [5-cm] tarts   time   1 hour
3 eggs, separated, at 
room temperature
1 cup [200 g] granulated sugar
1/2 tsp vanilla extract
31/2 cups [350 g] unsweetened 
finely shredded coconutZest of 3 limes, plus 
1/4 cup 
[60 ml] lime juice2 Tbsp cornstarch
3/4 cup [180 ml] cold water
1/2 cup [60 g] fresh raspberries
Powdered sugar for sprinklingPreheat the oven to 325°F [165°C]. Line a baking pan with 
parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, whisk the egg whites, 1/2 cup [100  g] of the 
granulated sugar, and the vanilla together with a fork. Fold in 
the shredded coconut and all of the lime zest. Make 20  mounds  
of the macaroon mixture, about 11/2 Tbsp each, and place in the 
prepared baking pan. Wet your hands slightly and use your 
fingers to create 2-in [5-cm] tart shapes by making a deep indent 
in the center and high sides. Bake until the edges of the tart 
shells become golden in color, 18  to 20  minutes . Remove to a 
wire rack to cool. Leave the oven on.
Meanwhile, in a medium heavy-bottomed saucepan, whisk the 
remaining 1/2 cup [100  g] granulated sugar and the cornstarch. 
Gradually whisk in the cold water. Whisk the egg yolks in a 
small bowl, and whisk into the mixture in the pan. Over medium 
heat, whisk the water-egg mixture constantly while bringing it 
to a boil, 2  to 3  minutes . After the custard is thick and boiling, 
continue to cook for about 30  seconds , whisking constantly. 
Remove from the heat and whisk in the lime juice.
continuedTaSTe  :  227
Spoon the lime custard into the center of each tart and up to the 
brim, about 1  Tbsp per tart, leaving the tarts on the pan. Bake 
until the custard has set, 10  to 12  minutes . Let the tarts cool for 
a few minutes in the baking pan before moving to a cooling rack.
Top the custard-filled tarts with fresh raspberries and a sprinkle 
of powdered sugar to serve.
variation:  Need a short cut? Use a muffin tin with greased 
silicone liners or metal tartlet pans and fill with the macaroon 
mixture, pressing into the bottom and sides to form the tart 
crusts. Bake as directed. Skip the custard, and mix orange marmalade with whipped cream. Fill the macaroon crusts with 
the orange cream once they’re fully baked and cooled. Didn’t 
use all that custard? Mix it with berries and whipped cream for tomorrow’s dessert, or into your morning yogurt or oatmeal for a decadent breakfast treat.228  :  LOW-SO GOOD
thou shalt be brave
HICKORY-SMOKED FISH SPREAD
Don’t let billowing smoke or the fact that you have to find hickory chips scare you 
from making this spread. It’s actually ridiculously easy to smoke your own fish at home 
without the extra sodium, and the tasty results are well worth facing your fears. Which 
is good, because some prepared smoked white fish can have more than 1,300  mg of 
sodium per 1  cup [220  g], depending on the brand. You’ll end up making this insanely 
good spread so often that it may well become your go-to appetizer. Serve with low-
sodium crackers or raw vegetables. Full disclosure: Heating the hickory chips this way 
will most likely leave burn marks in the bottom of your pot, so use an old pot that you 
won’t mind scruffing up a bit. It will also make the kitchen smoky, so be sure to open up a few windows as well to keep the smoke alarm from sounding.
 makes   1 to 1 ¼ cups [220 to 275 g]   time   45 minutes
8 oz [230 g] tilapia, skinned, 
deboned, and cut into 
2-in [5-cm] chunks
1/2 to 3/4 cup [120 to 180 ml] 
plain Greek yogurt
1/2 tsp dried dill
1/4 tsp salt-free garlic powder
Pinch of freshly ground black pepper
Pinch of cayenne pepper
1/4 cup [7 g] fresh dill (optional)Place 1/2 cup [35  g] hickory chips in the center of a tall, heavy pot, 
wide enough to fit a steamer basket or metal colander. Place a 
steamer basket in the pot on top of the wood chips.
Line the steamer basket with parchment paper and place the fish 
chunks on the paper in a single layer. (If necessary, steam the fish in two separate batches.) Cover the pot tightly with a lid or 
aluminum foil. Turn on the kitchen fan or open a window. Put 
the pot on the stove and cook over high heat for 5  to 8  minutes . 
Uncover the pot; if it is filled with smoke, turn the heat to low, 
replace the lid or foil, and cook the fish until it takes on a golden 
brown color and the flesh is white and cooked through, about 
5 minutes longer. Transfer the fish from the basket to a small 
bowl. Cover and put it in the refrigerator to cool completely, 
about 15  minutes .
continued230  :  LOW-SO GOOD
Separate the cooled fish from any gelled juices or fat that formed 
in the fridge; discard the juices and fat. Transfer the fish chunks 
to a medium bowl and use a fork to break them up. Add 1/2 cup  
[120 ml] of the yogurt and the dill, garlic powder, black pepper, 
and cayenne and mix well until combined. Add the remaining 
1/4 cup [60  ml] yogurt as needed to obtain your desired spreading 
consistency.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3  days .TaSTe  :  231thou shalt be brave
BAKED DIM SUM DUMPLINGS
If there’s a food you miss on your low-sodium diet, don’t simply long for it. Try to 
re-create it at home. When I first started my low-sodium journey, I missed dim sum 
dumplings madly. While the idea of making dumpling dough initially scared me, after 
doing a little research I realized all it required was flour, water, and a little time. And by making it a weekend project, you will actually enjoy all the rolling as well as the results. 
Once they’re made, you can boil, steam, pan-fry, or bake them. Freeze the leftovers 
for a quick dinner or a savory morning snack. Just know that your dumplings may look more like empanadas than the thin-skinned kind you might be used too, especially if 
you bake them. But take a bite and you won’t care.
 makes   32 dumplings   time   2 hours
DUMPLING DOUGH
2 cups [240 g] all-purpose flour
1 cup [240 ml] hot water
FILLING
4 tsp sesame oil 
4 oz [115 g] ground pork1 cup [80 g] finely diced 
stemmed shiitake mushrooms
1 cup [70 g] shredded 
green cabbage
1 cup [120 g] grated zucchini2 Tbsp minced shallot 
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly slicedTo make the Dumpling Dough: Put the flour in a food processor 
and with the machine running, slowly pour in the hot water, 
1/4 cup [60  ml] at a time, until the mixture forms a ball. (Add 
more water if the dough is too dry or add more flour if it seems 
too wet.) Once you have the right consistency, simply let the ball 
tumble around in the processor bowl for 30  seconds . Place the 
dough in a large bowl. If you do not have a food processor, put the flour in a large bowl and make a well in the center. Add half 
of the hot water and use a spatula to slowly stir and incorporate 
the flour. Continue to work the flour into the wet dough, adding more water slowly and as necessary, until it comes together into a pliable ball. Knead the dough on a floured work surface for few 
minutes, until it becomes soft and springy. 
Cover the bowl with a damp towel or plastic wrap, and let 
the dough rest and rise for at least 30  minutes . At this stage, 
the dough will keep, refrigerated, for 1 day. Let it rise at room 
temperature for 1 hour before using. 
continued232  :  LOW-SO GOODTo make the Filling: Heat 2  tsp of the sesame oil in a large 
skillet over medium-high heat. Add the ground pork and 
cook, stirring often with a wooden spoon, until browned, 6  to  
8 minutes . Transfer the cooked pork to a large bowl. Add 1  tsp  
sesame oil to the skillet and heat over medium heat. When hot, 
add the mushrooms and cook, stirring often, until browned, 6  to  
8 minutes . Transfer the mushrooms to the bowl with the pork.
Add the remaining 1  tsp sesame oil to the skillet and heat over 
medium heat. Add the cabbage and zucchini and cook, stirring 
often, until they soften and are browned, 8  to 10  minutes . 
Transfer the cabbage and zucchini to the bowl with the pork. 
Add the shallot, green onions, Chinese five-spice powder, garlic 
powder, and red pepper flakes to the bowl and stir to combine 
well. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 
15 minutes , or up to overnight.
Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Line a large baking pan with parchment paper. (Depending on the size of your baking pan, 
you may need to use two or make the dumplings in batches.)
Now for the fun. Cut the dough ball into four equal pieces and 
then, from each piece, make eight 1-Tbsp-size balls. (Math: This 
makes 32  dough balls total.) On a lightly floured work surface, 
use a rolling pin or even a tall spice jar to flatten each ball into a 3-in [7.5-cm] circle about 
1/4 in [6  mm] thick. Fill a small bowl 
with water.1 tsp salt-free Chinese 
five-spice powder
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes
2 Tbsp sesame oilTaSTe  :  233Put a scant 1  Tbsp of the filling in the center of each dough circle. 
Dip a finger in the water and moisten the edge of one side of 
the dough circle, then fold the dough over to the other side and 
pinch the edges together to form a half-moon shape. Or, draw the 
sides together toward the top, forming a purse shape, pinching and twisting the dough together to close it. Place the finished dumplings on the prepared baking pan.
Put the 2  Tbsp sesame oil in a small bowl and, using a pastry 
brush, paint the tops of all the dumplings with the oil. Bake until 
the dough is crisp and golden, 25  to 30  minutes . Serve warm.
note: Store the baked dumplings in an airtight container in 
the freezer for up to 3  months. Reheat in a 375°F [190°C] oven for 
5 minutes or in the microwave for 1  minute.TaSTe  :  235thou shalt be brave
BROCCOLI GNOCCHI WITH 
LEMON CREAM SAUCE
The lesson of this recipe is twofold: First, be brave enough to make your own pasta, 
and second, be brave enough to totally make over a recipe. Most gnocchi are made with 
potatoes or ricotta. But I thought, if I am going to take the time to make my own dough, 
I might as well make it special. And if a potato can transform into pasta, then why can’t broccoli do the same? I discovered that it can. Plus, the process of making broccoli gnocchi 
is not difficult at all (look at the cooking time). Double plus, you’ll use an entire head of 
broccoli, from stalk to tree top—which means the recipe is healthful and not wasteful. When entertaining non-low-so guests, offer grated Parmesan cheese for sprinkling.
 serves   4 to 6   time   1 hour, 15 minutes
2 cups [240 g] roughly chopped 
broccoli stems, plus 3 cups [180 g] 
roughly chopped broccoli florets
2 garlic cloves
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/4 cup [60 ml] lemon juice, 
plus zest of 1 lemon
11/2 cups [180 g] all-purpose flour
3 Tbsp [45 g] unsalted butter
1/2 cup [120 ml] heavy cream
Pinch of red pepper flakesLine a baking pan with parchment paper or dust lightly with 
flour.
In a food processor (or blender), combine the broccoli stems, 
garlic, black pepper, and the lemon juice. Purée until the broccoli mixture is smooth-ish, stopping to scrape down the bowl and 
adding 1  Tbsp water if needed to loosen. Transfer the purée to a 
medium bowl. Add the flour, 1/4 cup [30  g] at a time, stirring until 
well combined after each addition. When ready, the dough will feel neither too sticky nor too flaky, just soft and pliable.
With floured hands, shape the dough into a ball. On a lightly 
floured work surface, cut the dough ball into four even sections. Working with one section at a time, roll out the dough into a long 
rope about 
1/2 in [12  mm] thick. Use a knife to cut the dough rope 
into 1/2-in [12-mm] pieces. Place the tines of a fork on top of each 
dough piece, one at a time, and pull the fork toward you, gently rolling the gnoccho onto itself, making little grooves. Place the 
continued236  :  LOW-SO GOODfinished gnocchi in the prepared baking pan. (At this point, you 
can dust the gnocchi with flour and put in the freezer. When they 
harden, transfer to resealable plastic bags and freeze for up to 
3 months .)
Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Working in batches, 
drop the gnocchi into the boiling water. Cook until the gnocchi 
rise to the top, about 3  minutes . Use a slotted spoon to remove 
the gnocchi and place in a dry baking pan or on a piece of parchment paper. Continue until all the gnocchi are cooked and 
well drained.
Heat 1  Tbsp of the butter in a large sauté pan or skillet over 
medium heat and add the broccoli florets to the pan. Turn the 
heat to medium-high. Cook, tossing frequently, until slightly 
softened and browned, 6  to 8  minutes . Tranfer to a large serving 
bowl and cover with aluminum foil to keep warm.
Add another 1  Tbsp butter to the sauté pan and melt over 
medium heat. Working in batches, add a layer of gnocchi and 
cook until browned and crispy, 3  to 5  minutes , shaking the pan 
continuously so the gnocchi don’t stick. Add the cooked gnocchi to the serving bowl with the broccoli florets. Repeat until all 
the gnocchi are pan-fried, adding more butter to the pan and 
adjusting the heat as needed.
Heat the remaining 1  Tbsp butter in the sauté pan over medium 
heat. Add the cream and cook, stirring occasionally, until thick, 
4 to 5  minutes . Add the lemon zest and red pepper flakes. Cook 
for 1 minute more. Pour the cream sauce directly into the serving 
bowl and stir gently to coat. Serve warm.
variation:  Want to keep things lighter? Use olive oil in place 
of the butter. And instead of the cream sauce, put 1/4 to 1/2 cup  
[60 to 120  ml] crème fraîche or plain Greek yogurt in the serving 
bowl while you cook the broccoli. When you add the warm 
vegetables and pasta, the crème fraîche or yogurt will melt into a 
sauce. Sprinkle a little lemon zest on top and gently mix.TaSTe  :  237238  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt be brave
EASY FOCACCIA
I always thought baking bread was too difficult to attempt. But I’ve found that, like 
everything else in cooking, the more you make bread, the simpler it becomes. You don’t 
need a bread maker, just your hands and a pan. After making a few rolls and loaves, you’ll  
understand how dough should feel, and whether it needs more liquid or more flour. 
Experiment with herbs, spices, and toppings. And when friends decide to come over 
for dinner, just whip up homemade focaccia (what some call “snacking bread”) for 
them to nibble.
 makes   one 9-by-13-in [23-by-33-cm] loaf   time   3 hours, 15 minutes (mostly inactive time)
21/4 tsp active dry yeast
31/2 cups [420 g] all-purpose flour
2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1 tsp celery seeds
1 tsp lemon zest1
1/4 cup [300 ml] warm water
1 tsp olive oil, plus 
more for drizzlingIn a large mixing bowl, whisk together the yeast, flour, garlic 
powder, celery seeds, and lemon zest. Add 1  cup [240  ml] of the 
water and use your hands to mix the dough until it starts to 
come together. If the dough is too dry, slowly add 1/4 cup [60  ml]  
water until the dough comes together.
Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and knead 
until it feels smooth and springy. Wipe out the mixing bowl 
and place the dough back in. Rub the dough with the 1 tsp olive oil. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and let it rise until it has 
doubled in size, 1
1/2 to 2  hours . The warmer your kitchen is, the 
faster the dough will double.
Preheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Lightly oil a 9-by-13-in 
[23-by-33-cm] baking pan.
Transfer the dough to the prepared baking pan and stretch it to 
reach all the sides of the pan. Let it rise again, 20  to 30  minutes .
Use your fingertips to make indentations in the dough. Drizzle 
with 1 to 2  Tbsp olive oil. Bake until golden, about 20  minutes , 
rotating the pan halfway through. Ta-da! Focaccia! Serve warm.TaSTe  :  239thou shalt be brave
SOUP TO SAUCE
Flexible cooking is an essential skill for making good, low-sodium food. That means 
creating second-day meals from leftovers, inventing recipes with straggler ingredients 
from the fridge, or turning simple soups into sauces, like these recipes. By learning 
to use ingredients and even whole dishes in unexpected ways, you will become more confident to cook off-the-cuff and get creative with what you have in your kitchen.
GREEN PEA POSOLE
 makes   5 to 6 cups [1.2 to 1.4 L]   time   1 hour, 30 minutes
1 jalapeño chile
1 poblano or Anaheim chile
1 Tbsp olive oil
4 garlic cloves, chopped1
1/4 cups [150 g] chopped 
yellow onion
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
41/2 to 5 cups [1 to 1.2 L] water
4 cups [560 g] shelled 
peas, fresh or frozen
2 chicken thighs, skinned 
and deboned
1 cup [140 g] corn kernels, 
fresh or thawed frozen
Fresh cilantro leaves, 1 sliced 
green onion, 1 diced avocado, and/or salt-free tortilla chips 
for garnish (optional)Preheat the oven to broil. Line a baking pan with aluminum foil.
Cut the jalapeño and poblano in half lengthwise and remove the 
stems and seeds. Lay the chiles cut-side down in the prepared 
pan. Broil until charred; remove the jalapeño after 8  to 10  minutes  
and the poblano after 12  to 15  minutes . Put into a small bowl. Use 
the foil to cover the bowl and let steam, about 15  minutes . After 
they are cool to the touch, remove and discard the charred skin 
and then roughly chop.
In a large soup pot, warm the olive oil over medium-  high heat. 
When hot, add the garlic and yellow onion and cook, stirring 
frequently, until they start to brown, 3  to 5  minutes . Add the 
pepper, 4  cups [960  ml] of the water, and the peas. Bring to a 
boil and cook for 5  minutes . Turn the heat to low and simmer 
until the peas have softened, 6  to 8  minutes .
Remove the pot from the heat, add the roasted chiles to the soup, and use an immersion blender to purée until smooth. Add 
continuedTaSTe  :  241
GREEN CHILAQUILES
 serves   2   time   30 minutes
Three 5-in [12-cm] corn tortillas, 
cut into 6 triangles each
2 Tbsp vegetable oil, plus 2 tsp
1/4 tsp salt-  fr ee garlic powder
1/4 tsp salt-  fr ee chipotle 
chile powder
2 eggs
1/3 cup [40 g] chopped red onion
1 tsp chopped seeded jalapeño chile
2 cups [480 ml] Green 
Pea Posole (page 239)
1/4 tsp smoked paprika
1/4 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp ground cumin
1 sliced avocado, 1 sliced 
green onion, plain Greek 
yogurt, fresh cilantro leaves, 
and 1 sliced seeded jalapeño 
chile for garnish (optional)Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Line a baking pan with 
parchment paper.
Put the tortilla triangles in a large mixing bowl. Drizzle with 
1 Tbsp of the vegetable oil, the garlic powder, and chile powder. 
Gently mix with your hands until the chips are evenly coated. 
Arrange the tortilla triangles in the prepared baking pan, and 
bake until they turn golden in color and crispy, about 10  minutes . 
Remove the tortilla chips from the oven and let them cool and harden.
Heat a large sauté pan or skillet over medium-high heat. Add 
1 Tbsp vegetable oil and swirl to coat the pan. Gently crack the 
eggs, one at a time, into the pan and cook until the whites are 
firm and the edges begin to brown and curl, 2  to 3  minutes . If 
the whites still seem runny or you want a well-done yolk, cover 
the pan with a lid or aluminum foil. When cooked to your liking, 
transfer the eggs to a plate, cover with foil, and set aside.the chicken and the remaining 1/2 to 1 cup [120  to 240  ml] water, 
as needed. Return the soup to medium-high heat, bring to a boil, 
and cook for 5  minutes . Turn the heat to medium-low, cover, and 
cook for another 25  to 30  minutes .
Use tongs to remove the chicken thighs from the soup and place 
into a medium bowl. Use two forks to shred the chicken and 
then add it back to the soup along with the corn. Cook for a final 
5 minutes . Ladle into bowls, and top with cilantro, green onion, 
avocado, or chips, as desired, to serve.
continued242  :  LOW-SO GOODIn the same sauté pan over medium-high heat, add the 2  tsp  
vegetable oil, red onion, and chopped jalapeño. Cook, stirring 
frequently, until the onion begins to soften, 3  to 5  minutes . Turn 
the heat to medium and add the posole, paprika, oregano, and 
cumin. Bring to a simmer, turn the heat to low, and cook, stirring 
frequently, until the sauce thickens, about 5  minutes . When the 
sauce is thick enough to stick to the back of a spoon, gently fold in the crispy tortilla triangles.
Ladle into bowls, and top with one fried egg each, and the 
avocado, green onion, yogurt, cilantro, or sliced jalapeño, as desired, to serve.
variation:  For something easier, cut down on cooking 
time by using no-salt-added canned tomato sauce instead of  
the posole. Cook the onion and jalapeño as directed and add the 
sauce and spices, cooking for another 10  minutes to get all the 
flavors blooming. Fold in no-salt-added tortilla chips. Instead 
of frying the eggs, crack them directly on top of the sauce. 
Cover the pan and cook until the eggs set and the whites turn 
white, 3  to 5  minutes . You have breakfast for two, or multiply 
for a big brunch.TaSTe  :  243ROASTED PEPPER AND BUTTERNUT SQUASH SOUP
 makes   5 to 6 cups [1.2 to 1.4 L]   time   45 minutes
1 red bell pepper
2 Tbsp unsalted butter
1 cup [120 g] chopped yellow onion
4 garlic cloves, minced4 cups [560 g] cubed 
butternut squash
1/4 tsp salt  -fr ee garlic powder
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
1/8 tsp red pepper flakes
4 cups [960 ml] waterPreheat the oven to broil and line a small baking pan with 
aluminum foil.
Cut the bell pepper in half and remove the stem and seeds. Lay 
the pepper halves cut-side down in the prepared pan. Broil until 
charred, 15  to 20  minutes . Remove from the oven and, using 
tongs, put the halves in a medium bowl. Use the foil to cover the 
bowl and let steam, about 15  minutes . After they are cool to the 
touch, remove and discard the charred skins. Set aside.
In a large soup pot, melt the butter over medium-high heat. When 
the butter begins to turn a golden brown color, about 2  minutes , 
add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring frequently, until 
softened, 2  to 3  minutes longer. Add the squash, garlic powder, 
black pepper, and red pepper flakes. Stir to combine. Add the 
water, stir, and bring to a boil. Turn the heat to low, cover, and 
simmer for 20  minutes . Remove from the heat.
Roughly chop the roasted red pepper and add to the pot. Using an immersion blender, purée the soup in the pot until smooth. 
Return the soup to medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Turn 
the heat to medium and cook, stirring occasionally, until the 
soup is reduced to your liking, another 10  to 15  minutes . Serve 
immediately.
variation:  For the vegans, substitute olive oil for the butter. 
For the carnivores, substitute low-sodium chicken stock for 
some of the water.244  :  LOW-SO GOOD
STUFFED SHELLS WITH BUTTERNUT SAUCE
 serves   4 to 6   time   1 hour
One 12-oz [340-g] box 
jumbo pasta shells
1 tsp olive oil, plus 
more for drizzling
4 oz [115 g] ground pork, or 
1 cup [100 g] grated zucchini
2 cups [840 g] Cauliflower- 
Nut “Ricotta” (page 196) 
or low-sodium ricotta
1/2 cup [15 g] chopped fresh 
basil, plus more for garnish
1/8 tsp ground allspice
4 cups [960 ml] Roasted 
Pepper and Butternut 
Squash Soup (page 243)Preheat the oven to 375°F [190°C]. Lightly oil a 9-by-12-in 
[23-by-28-cm] baking dish.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat and add the 
pasta shells. Turn the heat to medium-high and cook until 
al dente , 6  to 8  minutes . Drain the pasta shells in a colander and 
rinse with cool water.
Meanwhile, add the olive oil to a medium skillet or sauté pan and 
heat over medium-high heat. When hot, add the ground pork 
and cook until browned and no longer pink, stirring frequently, 
6 to 8  minutes . Drain the fat and set the cooked meat aside in a 
small bowl.
In a medium bowl, combine the cauliflower “ricotta,” basil, 
cooked pork, and allspice and mix well. Set aside.
Spread 1  cup [240  ml] of the squash soup in the bottom of the 
prepared baking dish. Fill each pasta shell with the “ricotta” 
mixture, about 1  Tbsp per shell, and place in the baking dish in 
a single layer, seam-side up, over the squash soup. Cover the 
stuffed shells with the remaining 3  cups [720  ml] soup. Drizzle 
a little olive oil over the top, cover the dish with aluminum foil, 
and bake until the shells are tender, 15  minutes . Uncover the 
dish and continue to bake for another 10  minutes . Turn on the 
broiler for the final 3  minutes to crisp the pasta shells. Garnish 
with basil, and serve hot.
variation:  To cut down on cooking time, mix together 2  cups  
[480  ml] canned no-salt-added tomato sauce and 2  cups [480  ml]  
canned no-salt-added butternut squash purée. Stir in some salt-
free spices, such as smoked paprika and salt-free garlic powder, 
and use this mixture in place of the Roasted Red Pepper and 
Butternut Soup.TaSTe  :  247thou shalt be brave
COCONUT-CINNAMON ICE CREAM
You can always buy a carton of sodium-free ice cream or sorbet from the store. But 
like all other low-sodium cooking adventures, making your own tastes a gazillion times 
better. Plus, it offers you the opportunity to try unique flavors and textures of your 
choosing, and impress your dinner guests. Other than making the custard, your ice-cream maker and freezer will do the rest of the work for you. So buckle up and give this 
homemade ice cream a try. You may never buy a carton again.
 makes   about 5 cups [1.2 L]   time   3 hours, 35 minutes (mostly inactive time)
3 cups [720 ml] canned 
full-fat coconut milk
2 eggs
3/4 cup [150 g] sugar
1/4 tsp ground cinnamonMake an ice bath by filling a large bowl halfway with ice cubes 
and water. Nestle a medium bowl in the ice bath and put a fine-
mesh sieve in the medium bowl.
In a large saucepan, whisk together the coconut milk and eggs. 
Put the pan over medium-high heat and whisk in the sugar. Use a 
wooden spoon to stir the mixture until it thickens and registers 
175°F [80°C] on a candy thermometer, 6  to 8  minutes . (If you 
don’t have a candy thermometer, check whether the custard is 
done by dipping a wooden spoon in the custard. While holding 
the spoon sideways, run your finger along the back of the spoon. 
If the streak remains without the custard running back into the empty space, it is ready.) Remove the pan from the heat and pour the custard through the fine-mesh sieve to strain out any 
eggy bits, pushing the custard through with a silicone spatula.
continued248  :  LOW-SO GOODAdd the cinnamon to the custard and whisk until mixed well. 
Set the custard and ice bath aside to cool for 10  to 15  minutes . 
Take the custard out of the ice bath, press a piece of plastic 
wrap directly on the surface of the custard, and refrigerate for 
2 hours , or up to overnight.
Using an ice-cream maker, follow the manufacturer’s instructions to make the ice cream. Put the finished ice cream in an airtight 
container and freeze for at least 1  hour before serving.
variation:  If you want to add texture, mix 1  cup [100  g]  
toasted coconut or puffed rice cereal with a little cinnamon, sugar, and a drizzle of agave nectar. Serve sprinkled on top of 
the ice cream.TaSTe  :  249thou shalt wow
PICKLED CHERRIES
For your next happy hour, skip the olives—which can contain around 50  m g of sodium 
per olive—and make some pickled cherries instead. The combination of tangy balsamic 
vinegar mixed with the tart fruit makes a great accompaniment to cocktails and pre -
dinner cheese platters (for those who can eat cheese). These also make a great edible 
gift during the holidays. You can leave the stems on for easy snacking or remove the pits 
from the cherries to make them look more like olives. Eat them on their own, use them 
in wild rice stuffing, or give them to guests to put in their martinis.
 makes   2 cups [380 g]   time   30 minutes (plus 48 hours for pickling)
1 orange
1/2 cup [120 ml] water
1/2 cup [120 ml] apple cider vinegar
1/2 cup [120 ml] balsamic vinegar
1/2 cup [100 g] dark brown sugar
1 tsp peppercorns
1/2 tsp whole cloves
1 cinnamon stick
2 to 3 cups [280 to 420 g] 
cherries, stemmed (fresh 
or frozen unsweetened)Use a peeler to make ribbons of orange peel. Cut the orange in 
half and juice the halves into a bowl. Set aside.
In a small saucepan, combine the water, cider vinegar, balsamic 
vinegar, brown sugar, peppercorns, cloves, cinnamon stick, and 
1/2 cup [60  ml] of the orange juice (discard any extra) and stir to 
mix well. Bring the pickling liquid to a boil over medium-high heat. Remove the saucepan from the heat and allow the liquid 
to cool for at least 20  minutes , or longer if you are using plastic 
containers.
Use a knife to cut a small X in the bottom of the cherries. Stuff 
the cherries and the orange peel ribbons into a 2-cup [480-ml] 
heatproof container. Set aside.
When the liquid is lukewarm to the touch, pour it into the 
container, covering the cherries. (If there is not enough liquid, 
add a bit more balsamic vinegar.) Put the lid on the container and close tightly. Give the container five or six good shakes to 
mix up all the pickling juices, and put it in the fridge to cool.
continuedTaSTe  :  251
In 48  hours , the cherries will be ready. Resist the urge to taste 
before then, because the longer you wait, the more pickled they 
will be. When they’re ready, try to finish them off within 2  weeks , 
which won’t be hard. Serve them in a bowl with toothpicks.
variation:  Try other spices next time, like fresh ginger and 
star anise, to change the flavor and give more pop to these 
pickles.
note: If you have extra cherries, don’t panic. The ones in the 
container will shrink a little in the warm liquid, so when there’s 
extra space, add the leftover cherries.252  :  LOW-SO GOODthou shalt wow
THE DINNER PARTY: POLENTA 
WITH LAMB CHOPS, HARISSA, 
AND LEMON FENNEL
Polenta makes a perfect starting point for guests with and without dietary restrictions. 
It takes on a creamy texture even without dairy, and it serves as a rich canvas that 
complements almost any protein, vegetable, or sauce combination. While I use lamb 
chops here, if you want less meat, use beans or roasted vegetables instead. Offer Parmesan on the side for guests who like (and can handle) a salty kick. Plate individual 
portions, present the dish family style, or, for something wild, assemble all of the 
components on a large, wooden cutting board.
 serves   4 to 6   time   35 minutes
LEMON FENNEL
1 bulb fennel
Zest of 1 lemon, plus  
2 Tbsp lemon juice
POLENTA
4 cups [960 ml] water1 cup [140 g] yellow medium-
ground cornmeal
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
Pinch of freshly ground black pepperPreheat the oven to 400°F [200°C].
To make the Lemon Fennel: Wash the fennel bulb and cut off 
the knobby bottom. Remove any brown outer layers. Using a 
mandoline, or really good knife skills, hold the fronds and thinly slice the fennel bulb below the fronds. Put the fennel slices in 
a medium bowl and add the lemon zest and juice. Put in the 
refrigerator and let the fennel marinate for 30  minutes .
To make the Polenta: In a large saucepan, bring the water to 
a boil over medium-high heat. Stirring with a wooden spoon, slowly add the cornmeal to the boiling water. Turn the heat to low 
and continue stirring until the polenta starts to thicken, about 
5 minutes . Add the garlic powder and pepper, and stir again to 
combine well. Continue to cook the polenta for 20  to 25  minutes , 
adjusting the heat as needed and stirring every 10  minutes to 
keep it from sticking or burning on the bottom of the pan. Remove from the heat and keep warm. (Your goal is to have the polenta 
finished when it’s time to eat, since it will get a little gummy if it TaSTe  :  253sits. But if timing gets off and the polenta gets gummy, just add 
1 to 2  Tbsp warm water or a spoonful of the lamb roasting juices 
to make it creamy again.)
To make the Lamb Loin Chops: In a small mixing bowl, 
combine the dill and pepper. Pat the lamb chops dry with a 
paper towel and rub the dill mixture all over each chop. Add the olive oil to a large ovenproof skillet (or two, if needed) and heat 
over medium-high heat. Add the lamb in a single layer (cook 
in batches if necessary) and sear until each chop has a golden 
brown crust, 3  to 4  minutes per side. Use tongs to hold the chops 
so you can sear the sides of fat, about 1  minute per chop. Lay the 
chops flat again and put the skillet in the oven to finish cooking, 
6 to 8  minutes , depending on the thickness. Remove the skillet 
from the oven, cover loosely with aluminum foil, and let the 
lamb rest for 5  minutes .
Spoon the creamy polenta onto four to six plates and lay one or two lamb chops, per person, on top. Spoon some of the rich lamb 
roasting juices over the lamb and polenta, if desired. Remove the 
fennel slices from the lemon marinade and place a small handful over the lamb chops. Sprinkle each plate with fresh herbs. Serve with the harissa and Parmesan cheese on the side.LAMB LOIN CHOPS
2 tsp dried dill
2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
8 to 12 small lamb loin chops, 
each about 11/2 in [4 cm] thick
1 Tbsp olive oil or vegetable oil
Fresh herbs: chopped dill, 
basil, mint, or fennel fronds
Harissa Hot Sauce (page 164)  
for servingGrated Parmesan cheese, for 
non-low-so guests, for servingTaSTe  :  255thou shalt wow
THE CASUAL FIESTA: JERK-ISH FISH 
TACOS WITH SAUCE, SLAW, AND SALSA
Tacos are my go-to meal for big groups. Almost all of the fixings can be prepared ahead 
of time and served cold or at room temperature—a big plus for the host or hostess. 
And they bring a ton of color, texture, and flavor to the table—a big plus for low-so 
eaters. You can easily adapt these tacos to take advantage of in-season produce or adjust to different dietary needs. And with so many fixing options, guests get to design 
their own perfect taco. Or two. Or more.
 serves   4 to 8   time   1 hour, 35 minutes
PEACH-JALAPEÑO SAUCE
2 orange bell peppers
1 jalapeño chile
1 cup [170 g] chopped peaches, 
fresh or thawed frozen
Zest and juice of 1 lime
CARROT-LIME SLAW
2 carrots
1 Tbsp lime zest, plus 
1 Tbsp lime juice
CORN-JICAMA SALSA
1 Tbsp coriander seeds
1 tsp vegetable oil1 Tbsp diced seeded jalapeño chile
1
1/2 cup [210 g] corn kernels, 
fresh or thawed frozencontinuedTo make the Peach-Jalapeño Sauce: Preheat the oven to broil. 
Line a baking pan with aluminum foil.
Cut the bell peppers and jalapeño in half and remove the stems 
and seeds. Lay them cut-side down in the prepared baking pan. 
Broil until charred; remove the jalapeño after 8  to 10  minutes and 
the bell peppers after 12  to 15  minutes . Put into a medium bowl. 
Use the foil to cover the bowl and let steam about 15  minutes . 
After they are cool to the touch, remove and discard the charred 
skins and roughly chop. Transfer the bell peppers and jalapeño 
to a blender (or food processor). Add the peaches, lime zest, and 
lime juice and purée until smooth. Set aside.
To make the Carrot-Lime Slaw: Using a julienne peeler or a 
regular peeler, cut the carrots into thin ribbons. Put the carrot 
ribbons in a medium bowl and toss with the lime zest and 
lime juice. (The slaw can be prepared 1  day ahead for a more 
intense lime flavor; store in the fridge in an airtight nonreactive container.)256  :  LOW-SO GOODTo make the Corn-Jicama Salsa: Heat a large sauté pan or 
skillet over medium-high heat and toast the coriander seeds 
until fragrant, about 2  minutes , stirring or shaking the pan 
frequently. Add the vegetable oil, diced jalapeño, and corn and 
cook, stirring frequently, for 5  minutes . Transfer the mixture to a 
medium bowl and let cool for 10  minutes . (If you are using fresh 
corn kernels, you don’t need to heat them first.) Add the jicama, 
garlic powder, cilantro, and green onions to the bowl. Stir until 
well combined. Cover tightly and refrigerate until serving, up to 
1 day .
Preheat the oven to 350°F [180°C]. Wrap the tortillas tightly 
in aluminum foil and put in the oven to warm while you make  
the fish.
To make the Jerk-ish Fish: In a small bowl, mix together the 
paprika, cayenne, garlic powder, cumin, cloves, cinnamon, and 
black pepper. Rub this spice mixture all over the fish fillets.
Add the vegetable oil to a large sauté pan or skillet and heat 
over medium-high heat. Add the fish in batches, cooking until 
the fillets turn golden in color and flake when pulled with a 
fork, about 5  minutes per side. Put the cooked fish in a medium 
serving bowl and cover with foil to keep warm while you cook 
the rest of the fish. Use a fork to break apart the fillets.
Place the warmed tortillas on a plate, cover them with a kitchen 
towel to keep them warm, and place on the table. Set out the jalapeño sauce, carrot slaw, corn salsa, fish, and the peach 
slices, shredded cabbage, diced onion, yogurt, cilantro, and lime 
wedges. Let your guests build their own tacos.1 cup [140 g] diced jicama 
or cucumber
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/4 cup [7 g] finely chopped 
fresh cilantro
2 green onions, root ends 
trimmed, thinly sliced
1 to 3 corn tortillas per personJERK-ISH FISH
2 tsp smoked paprika
1/2 to 1 tsp cayenne pepper 
or salt-free chili powder
1 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp ground cloves
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
11/2 lb [680 g] snapper, cod, 
or tilapia fillets2 tsp vegetable oil
1 peach or mango, cut into 
1/2-in [12-mm] slices
1/2 cup [35 g] shredded 
purple cabbage
1/2 cup [60 g] diced red onion
Plain Greek yogurt for serving
1/4 cup [7 g] chopped 
fresh cilantro leaves
2 limes, cut into 4 wedges eachTaSTe  :  257thou shalt wow
THE GROUP EFFORT: FLATBREAD  
WITH FOUR MIX-AND-MATCH SPREADS
Remember: When you personally have a hand in making the meal, the food tastes 
better. Multiply that by the number of guests at your dinner party and just imagine 
the kind of flavor boost that results. Not to mention entertainment value. So the next 
time you invite the gang over, let them roll up their sleeves and get involved with some flatbreads. Prepare the dough and spreads ahead of time—or assign guests spreads 
to make on their own and bring for sharing—and when it’s time, let everyone tie on an 
apron and get to work on their personal pizzas.
 makes   four 6-by-10-in [15-by-25-cm] crusts   time   2 to 3 hours (depending on the dough rising time)
1/2 oz [15 g] active dry yeast
11/2 cups [360 ml] warm water
2 Tbsp sugar
2 Tbsp olive oil, plus 1 tsp 
and more for drizzling
1 tsp salt-free garlic powder
1/2 tsp freshly ground black pepper
4 cups [480 g] all-purpose flour
Spreads and corresponding 
toppings (recipes follow)In large bowl, mix the yeast with the warm water. Let the 
mixture stand until it bubbles, about 5  minutes . Mix in the sugar, 
2 Tbsp olive oil, garlic powder, and pepper. Stir until combined. 
Add the flour, 1  cup [120  g] at a time, and use your hands to mix 
the dough until it starts to come together in a ball. (If the dough 
is too sticky, add a little more flour. If it is too dry, add a little 
more water.) Put the dough on a lightly floured work surface and 
knead until it feels smooth and springy, 6  to 8  minutes .
Wipe the large bowl clean and put the dough ball back in it. Pour 
the 1  tsp olive oil over the top of the dough and use your hands 
to spread it all over the dough ball. Cover the bowl with plastic 
wrap or a kitchen towel, and let the dough rise in a warm space 
until doubled in size, 1  to 2  hours . Cut the dough into four equal 
parts and shape them into balls. (At this point, you can dust the dough with flour and wrap in wax or parchment paper. Put in a 
resealable bag and refrigerate for up to 3  days or freeze for up 
to 3 months . Thaw in the refrigerator and proceed as directed.)
continued258  :  LOW-SO GOODPreheat the oven to 425°F [220°C]. Line two large cookie sheets 
with aluminum foil.
Lightly flour the work surface again and use a rolling pin to 
shape each of the four dough balls into a 6-by-8-in [15-by-20-cm] rectangle about a 
1/4 in [6  mm] thick. Transfer the dough to the 
prepared cookie sheets, two per sheet.
Bake the flatbreads until the bottom crust starts to feel firm, 6  to  
8 minutes . Take the cookie sheets out of the oven and lower the 
oven temperature to 375°F [190°C].
Spread one of the spreads onto each flatbread crust, leaving a 
1/4-in [6-mm] border. Let your guests add additional toppings as 
desired and finish with a drizzle of olive oil on the top.
Return the flatbreads to the oven to bake until the crust is golden 
brown and crispy, 12  to 15  minutes . Let cool for 5  minutes . Slice 
and serve hot.TaSTe  :  259BROCCOLI AND BASIL SPREAD
 makes   ¾ cup [165 g]   time   15 minutes
2 cups [180 g] broccoli 
florets and stems
2 to 3 Tbsp olive oil, plus 
more for serving
1/4 cup [7 g] tightly packed 
chopped fresh basil leaves
1/2 tsp salt-free garlic powder
Pinch of freshly ground 
black pepper
TOPPINGS
Chopped fresh basil  
leaves, salt-free pine  
nuts or sliced almondsFill a medium pot with 2  in [5  cm] water and place a steamer 
basket in the bottom of the pot above the water. Bring the water 
to a boil over medium heat. Put the broccoli in the basket, 
cover, and steam until fork-tender, 6  to 8  minutes . Transfer the 
broccoli to a blender (or food processor). Add 2  Tbsp of the olive 
oil, the basil, garlic powder, and pepper. Blend until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl with a spatula and adding 
the remaining 1  Tbsp olive oil if needed.
Store in an airtight container, drizzled with olive oil to prevent 
browning, in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .
CAULIFLOWER AND MUSHROOM SPREAD
 makes   1½ cups [330 g]   time   20 minutes
2 cups [220 g] cauliflower florets
2 tsp olive oil, plus 2 Tbsp
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 cup [70 g] sliced stemmed 
cremini mushrooms
1 Tbsp orange zest, plus 
1 Tbsp orange juice
2 to 3 Tbsp fresh parsley leaves
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
Pinch of red pepper flakes
TOPPINGS
Sliced shallot, arugulaFill a medium pot with 2  in [5  cm] water and place a steamer 
basket in the bottom of the pot above the water. Bring the water 
to a boil over medium heat. Put the cauliflower in the basket, 
cover, and steam until fork-tender, 6  to 8  minutes . Transfer the 
cauliflower to a blender (or food processor).
Meanwhile, heat the 2  tsp olive oil in a medium skillet over 
medium-high heat. Add the garlic and mushrooms and cook, 
stirring frequently, until browned, 8  to 10  minutes . Transfer 
to the blender. Add the 2  Tbsp olive oil, orange zest, orange 
juice, parsley, black pepper, and red pepper flakes. Blend until  
smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl if needed.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .260  :  LOW-SO GOODBUTTERNUT SQUASH–DUKKA SPICE SPREAD
 makes   1½ cups [330 g]   time   15 minutes
2 cups [280 g] cubed 
butternut squash
2 to 3 Tbsp olive oil
2 Tbsp Dukka Spice Mix (page 188)
TOPPI NGS
Dollops of low-sodium  
farmer’s cheese or ricotta,  
sliced tomatoesFill a medium pot with 2  in [5  cm] water and place a steamer 
basket in the bottom of the pot above the water. Bring the water 
to a boil over medium heat. Put the squash in the basket, cover, 
and steam until tender, 10  to 12  minutes . Transfer the squash to 
a blender (or food processor). Add 2  Tbsp of the olive oil and the 
dukka. Blend until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl 
and adding the remaining 1  Tbsp olive oil if needed.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .
CILANTRO-PEA SPREAD
 makes   1 cup [220 g]   time   15 minutes
2 cups [280 g] peas, fresh or frozen
1/4 cup [7 g] tightly packed 
fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 tsp cumin seeds
1/4 tsp salt-free chipotle 
chile powder
1 tsp olive oil
Zest and juice of 1 lime
TOPPINGS
Jalapeño chile slices, grated  
carrots, raw corn kernelsFill a medium bowl with ice and water and put it in the freezer to 
chill for 5  minutes to make an ice-water bath.
Meanwhile, bring a medium pot of water to boil over medium-
high heat. Add the peas and cook until tender and bright green, 
2 to 3  minutes .
Remove the ice-water bath from the freezer and transfer to the counter. Immediately drain the peas and pour them into the 
ice-water bath. Let cool for 5  to 8  minutes . Drain the peas again 
and transfer to a blender (or food processor). Add the cilantro, 
cumin seeds, chile powder, olive oil, lime zest, and 1  tsp of the 
lime juice. Blend until smooth. Taste and add more lime juice, if needed.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4  days .TaSTe  :  261thou shalt wow
PAVLOVA WHOOPIE PIES WITH 
MINT WHIPPED CREAM
This dessert is like doing a backflip during the first dance at your wedding (which 
happened at mine). It’s unexpected, it’s daring, and it definitely leaves an impression. 
But don’t let the level of difficulty deceive you, because making a pavlova is a lot easier 
than a backflip. Pavlova is just a fancy name for a meringue covered with whipped cream. You can bake the pavlova flat, stack several like a layer cake on a large tray, and 
serve with forks for your guests, if you like interactive presentations; or even make 
them into whoopie pies, like I’ve done here. While this version is spiked with fresh mint whipped cream, a pavlova is a wonderful canvas for trying unusual flavor combinations, 
sweet or savory. Like peppermint, poppyseed, and even cayenne pepper and chocolate 
flakes. So stretch, bend those knees, and dive into these pavlova whoopie pies.
 makes   8 whoopie pies   time   2 hours
MERINGUES
1 cup [200 g] granulated sugar
1/2 cup [100 g] packed 
light brown sugar
11/2 Tbsp cornstarch
11/2 tsp vanilla extract
2 tsp distilled white vinegar5 egg whites, at room temperature
MINT WHIPPED CREAM
1/4 cup [7 g] lightly packed 
fresh chopped mint leaves
2 Tbsp granulated sugarTo make the Meringues: Preheat the oven to 275°F [135°C]. Line 
two large cookie sheets with parchment paper. Using a pencil 
and the rim of a 21/2-in- [6-cm-] diameter drinking glass, trace 
eight  cir cles on each sheet of parchment (leave plenty of space 
between each circle), making 16  cir cles total. Flip the parchment 
over, so the pencil markings won’t get on the meringues.
Whisk the granulated sugar, brown sugar, and cornstarch in a 
medium bowl until it is lump-free and well combined. (If your 
brown sugar has hardened, it’s best to use a food processor to break up any lumps.) In a small bowl, stir together the vanilla 
and vinegar. Set aside.
continuedTaSTe  :  2632 cups [480 ml] heavy 
whipping cream
1/4 cup [20 g] powdered sugarUsing electric beaters and a large mixing bowl or a stand mixer, 
beat the egg whites on medium speed until they hold soft peaks, 
2 to 3 minutes. Increase the speed to medium-high and, while 
beating the egg whites, add the sugar mixture 1  Tbsp at a time. 
After all the sugar has been added, beat 1  minute more. Add the 
vanilla-vinegar mixture and beat at high speed until the batter is 
glossy and holds stiff peaks, another 3  to 5  minutes .
Use a spatula to spoon 1/2 to 3/4 cup [120  to 180  ml] of meringue, 
about 2  in [5  cm] high, on each circle on the prepared sheets. 
Use the spatula to smooth out the meringue circles. Bake for 
35 minutes . Turn off the oven, and let the meringues rest in the 
oven with the door closed for 1  hour . Remove from the oven and 
let cool.
To make the Mint Whipped Cream: Clean and dry the electric 
mixer beaters and the mixing bowl. Chill the bowl and beaters in 
the freezer for 5  minutes .
Meanwhile, combine the mint and granulated sugar in a food 
processor (or blender). Pulse a few times until you have finely 
ground mint sugar. Set aside.
Add the whipping cream and powdered sugar to the chilled 
mixing bowl. Mix on high speed for 2  to 3  minutes , just until the 
cream gets very thick and holds medium peaks, being careful to 
not overbeat. (Overmixing heavy whipping cream will cause it to 
separate. If this happens, don’t panic. Fold in a little extra cream 
and it will come back together.) With a spatula, gently fold in the 
mint sugar. Refrigerate for up to 1  hour .
Frost one meringue with 1/4 cup [60 ml] of the whipped cream. 
Place another meringue on top, and press gently to form a two-
layer whoopie pie. Repeat to assemble eight whoopie pies. Serve 
immediately.264  :  LOW-SO GOOD
TaSTe  :  265
266  :  LOW-SO GOODRecipes Grouped by Type
STAPLES
Avocado Green Goddess 
Dressing (page  168)
Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing (page  169)
Cauliflower-Nut 
“Ricotta” (page  1 96)
Dilly Chimichurri (page  163)
Harissa Hot Sauce (page  16 4)
Lemon Tahini Dressing (page  170)
Maharaja-Style Curry  P owder 
(page  1 95)
Roasted Fig and Tomato 
Slow Jam (page  162)
Sauce Gribiche (page  166)
BITES
Chili Polenta Fries (page  216)
Crunchy Parsnip Fries (page  215)
Curry Tofu Fries (page  217)
Dill Oil Jicama “Fries” (page  217)
Lime-Chili Street  Carr ots 
(page  179)
Nectarine Guacamole (page  177)
Pickled Cherries (page  249)Radish-and-Onion Yogurt 
Spread (page  179)
Toasted Pepita Mix (page  176)
Toasted Rice Patties (page  180)
BREAKFASTS 
AND BRUNCHES
Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding (page  112)
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes (page  210)
DIY Oatmeal (page  111)
Green Chilaquiles (page  241)
Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread (page  228)
Lemon Zinger Bars (page  175)
Mini Hash Brown Quiches  
(page  208)
Mint Chip–Chia 
Pudding (page  112)
Salt-Free Bacon (page  93)
BREADS
Chickpea-Flour Pizza (page  9 4)
Easy Focaccia (page  238)
Everything Waffles (page  211)Mei Mei’s Green Onion 
Pancakes (page  151)
Microwave Banana  Br ead 
(page  114)
Super-Simple Sandwich 
Bread (page  149)
LUNCHES
Carrot Vegetable Noodle Salad 
with Spicy Shrimp (page  1 99)
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad (page  1 97)
Corn-Broccoli Burgers (page  201)
Firefly Falafel with 
Herb  Y ogurt (page  14 7)
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup (page 122)
Grilled Lettuce Salad (page  171)
Kale Cobb Salad (page  18 4)
Microwave Tostada (page  113)
Quickie Shredded  Chick en 
(page  117)
Roasted Squash and Kale 
Salad (page  183)
Speedy Five-Spice Pulled 
Pork (page  118)ReCIP e S GROUP e D BY TYP e   :  267SOUPS
Green Pea Posole (page  239)
Roasted Pepper and Butternut 
Squash Soup (page  243)
Visra’s Comfort Soup (page  150)
DINNERS
Baked Dim Sum  Dumplings  
(page  231)
Broccoli Gnocchi with Lemon 
Cream Sauce (page  235)
Cauliflower Steaks with Curry 
Mushroom Gravy (page  203)
Coconut “Panko” Fish (page  221)
Coconut “Panko” Pork Tonkatsu 
with Orange-Ginger Sauce and 
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw (page  218)
Duck à la Foung (page  152)
Dukka-Spiced Salmon 
Patties (page  187)
Lemon Chicken Orzo (page  17 2)
Roast Beef and Mustard  Seed  
Carrots (page  189)
Stuffed Shells with Butternut 
Sauce (page  244)
Sunday Chicken with Roasted 
Roots and Fruits (page  223)PARTY MEALS
The Casual Fiesta: Jerk-ish Fish Tacos with Sauce, Slaw, 
and Salsa (page  255)
The Dinner Party: Polenta with Lamb Chops, Harissa, and 
Lemon Fennel (page  252)
The Group Effort: Flatbread with Four Mix-and-Match 
Spreads (page  257)
DESSERTS
Cardamom Cake with Coconut 
Whipped Cream (page  1 93)
Coconut-Cinnamon 
Ice Cr eam (page  24 7)
Date Caramels with Crunchy 
Chocolate Coating (page  205)
Macaroon Custard  T arts 
(page  225)
Pavlova Whoopie Pies with Mint 
Whipped Cream (page  26 1)268  :  LOW-SO GOODIndex                                                
A
Allspice, 65
Aluminum foil, 42, 57
American Heart Associ-
ation, 14, 15, 16, 44
Anchovies, 84
Aprons, 59
Avocados, 95
Avocado Green Goddess 
Dressing, 168
Kale Cobb Salad, 184
Microwave Tostada, 113Nectarine Guacamole, 177
B
Bacon, Salt-Free, 84, 93Bagels, 84
Bananas
Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes, 210
Microwave Banana 
Bread, 114
Beans. see also Chickpeas;  
Edamame
Microwave Tostada, 113
Beef
brisket, 130frozen, 69Roast Beef and Mustard 
Seed Carrots, 189–91
shopping for, 75
Bell peppers
Harissa Hot Sauce, 164–65Peach-Jalapeño Sauce, 255Roasted Pepper and 
Butternut Squash 
Soup, 243
Benjamin, Tracy, 53
Berries
Macaroon Custard 
Tarts, 225–27
Whipped Cream, Brown 
Sugar, and Berries, 127Bitterness, 19Bittman, Mark, 43
Blanching, 69
Blenders, 42, 54
Bowls, nonreactive, 56
Bread. see also Pancakes; 
Pizza; Waffles-based dishes, 145crumbs, 85
dough, frozen, 68
Easy Focaccia, 238Flatbread with Four 
Mix-and-Match Spreads, 257–60
Microwave Banana 
Bread, 114
for sandwiches, 121sodium in, 16, 85Super-Simple Sandwich 
Bread, 149
Breakfast ideas, 108–10Brisket, 130Broccoli
Broccoli and Basil 
Spread, 259
Broccoli Gnocchi 
with Lemon Cream Sauce, 235–36
Corn-Broccoli 
Burgers, 201
Broth substitutes, 85Burgers, Corn-Broccoli, 201Butcher shops, 81
Butternut squash
Butternut Squash–Dukka 
Spice Spread, 260
cutting, 45
Lemon Chicken 
Orzo, 172–73
Roasted Pepper and 
Butternut Squash Soup, 243
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244
C
Cabbage
Baked Dim Sum 
Dumplings, 231–33Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, and Salsa, 255–56
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw, 218
Visra’s Comfort Soup, 150
Cake, Cardamom, with 
Coconut Whipped 
Cream, 193–94
Canning jars, 54–55Caramels, Date, with 
Crunchy Chocolate 
Coating, 205–7
Caraway seeds, 65
Cardamom, 66
Cardamom Cake with 
Coconut Whipped Cream, 193–94
Carrots
Carrot-Lime Slaw, 255Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing, 169
Carrot Vegetable Noodle 
Salad with Spicy Shrimp, 199–200
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Lime-Chili Street 
Carrots, 179
Mini Hash Brown 
Quiches, 208
Roast Beef and Mustard 
Seed Carrots, 189–91
Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and Fruits, 223–24
Casseroles, 130–31Cauliflower
Cauliflower and 
Mushroom Spread, 259
Cauliflower-Nut 
“Ricotta,” 196
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad, 197
Cauliflower Steaks with 
Curry Mushroom Gravy, 203–4
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244Cayenne pepper, 63
Celery seeds, 65
Cheese substitutes, 
86, 87–88
Cauliflower-Nut 
“Ricotta,” 196
Cherries
Pickled Cherries, 249–51pitting, 59
Chia seeds, 109–10
Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Mint Chip–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Chicken
frozen, 69
Green Pea Posole, 239–41Lemon Chicken 
Orzo, 172–73
Quickie Shredded 
Chicken, 117
shopping for, 75
sodium in, 16
Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and 
Fruits, 223–24
Chickpeas
Chickpea-Flour Pizza, 94Firefly Falafel with 
Herb Yogurt, 147
Chilaquiles, Green, 241–42
Children
gifts for, 155low-sodium cooking 
and, 23
Chiles
Green Pea Posole, 239–41Harissa Hot Sauce, 164–65
Peach-Jalapeño Sauce, 255
types of, 79, 165
Chili Polenta Fries, 216Chili powder, 65
Chimichurri, Dilly, 163
Chocolate
Date Caramels with 
Crunchy Chocolate Coating, 205–7
Kitchen Cupboard 
Chocolate Bark, 127IND eX  :  269Mint Chip–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Cilantro-Pea Spread, 260
Cinnamon, 65
Cleanup, 40, 41, 56
Cloves, 65
Cobb Salad, Kale, 184
Cocoa powder, 65
Coconut
Cardamom Cake with 
Coconut Whipped Cream, 193–94
Coconut “Panko” Fish, 221Coconut “Panko” Pork 
Tonkatsu, 218–20
Date Caramels with 
Crunchy Chocolate 
Coating, 205–7
Macaroon Custard 
Tarts, 225–27
Coconut milk
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes, 210
Cardamom Cake with 
Coconut Whipped 
Cream, 193–94
Cauliflower Steaks with 
Curry Mushroom Gravy, 203–4
Coconut-Cinnamon 
Ice Cream, 247–48
Date Caramels with 
Crunchy Chocolate 
Coating, 205–7
Everything Waffles, 211–13
freezing, 71
Coffee grounds, 65
Cold cuts, 16
Cole, Bruce, 171Collard Leaf Lavash, 120
Color, 22, 23, 160
Commandments, Six 
Low-So Cooking, 160–61
Cookbooks, 43–44
Cookie dough, 69
Cooking shows, 44
Cooking times, 158
Cooling racks, 55
Corn
Corn-Broccoli 
Burgers, 201
Corn Jicama Salsa, 255–56
cutting kernels from, 45Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Green Pea Posole, 239–41
Kale Cobb Salad, 184
Nectarine Guacamole, 177
Cornmeal. see Polenta
Crab substitutes, 86
Crackers, 86
Crusts, frozen, 68–69
Cucumber Baguettes, 120
Cumin, 63
Curry powder, 65
Maharaja-Style Curry 
Powder, 195
Curry Tofu Fries, 217Cutting boards, 55
D
Dalkin, Gaby, 95Dates
Date Caramels with 
Crunchy Chocolate 
Coating, 205–7
Lemon Zinger Bars, 175
Dating, 103–4
Desserts
Cardamom Cake with 
Coconut Whipped 
Cream, 193–94
Coconut-Cinnamon 
Ice Cream, 247–48
Date Caramels with 
Crunchy Chocolate Coating, 205–7
Kitchen Cupboard 
Chocolate Bark, 127
Macaroon Custard 
Tarts, 225–27
Pancake Cakes, 127Pavlova Whoopie Pies 
with Mint Whipped Cream, 261–63
simple ideas for, 127Whipped Cream, Brown 
Sugar, and Berries, 127
Dietitian, building 
relationship with, 48
Dill, 63
Dill Oil Jicama “Fries,” 217Dilly Chimichurri, 163Dim Sum Dumplings, 
Baked, 231–33
Disposals, 42
Doughs, frozen, 68–69
Duck
Duck à la Foung, 152
ideas for, 146
Dukka
Butternut Squash–Dukka 
Spice Spread, 260
Dukka-Spiced Salmon 
Patties, 187–88
Dukka Spice Mix, 188
Dumplings, Baked 
Dim Sum, 231–33
Dunmore, Greg, 180Dutch ovens, 55
E
Edamame
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad, 197
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Emergency essentials, 71Entertaining, 105, 
125–27, 129–33, 161
Equipment, 52, 54–60Everything Waffles, 211–13
F
Falafel, Firefly, with 
Herb Yogurt, 147
Falkowitz, Max, 79
Farmers’ markets, 81Fears, common, 40–41, 
48, 137, 161
Fennel
Lemon Fennel, 252Roasted Squash and 
Kale Salad, 183
Fig and Tomato Slow 
Jam, Roasted, 162
Fire extinguishers, 55Firefly Falafel with 
Herb Yogurt, 147
Fish
Coconut “Panko” Fish, 221Dukka-Spiced Salmon 
Patties, 187–88
en papillote, 42
Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread, 228–30
Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, 
and Salsa, 255–56
shopping for, 75
smoked, 131
Flatbread with Four 
Mix-and-Match 
Spreads, 257–60
Flavor
boosting, 21–22
low-sodium cooking 
and, 10, 13
salt and, 20–21using natural, 160
Flour, 70Focaccia, Easy, 238
Food processors, 42, 55
Foung, Alejandro, 104Freezer essentials, 68–69, 71
Fries
Chili Polenta Fries, 216
Crunchy Parsnip Fries, 215
Curry Tofu Fries, 217
Dill Oil Jicama “Fries,” 217
Fruits. see also 
individual fruitsas broth substitutes, 85
cutting, 45–46frozen, 71
shopping for, 77
Frying, 146
G
Gardening, 97Garlic powder, 63
Gazzaniga, Donald A., 44
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Gepner, Nikki, 48Gifts, 105, 154–55
Ginger
Lemon Zinger Bars, 175
Orange-Ginger Sauce, 218
Gnocchi, Broccoli, 
with Lemon Cream 
Sauce, 235–36270  :  LOW-SO GOODGrains
flavor profiles of, 70
substituting, 70
toasting, 62
Graters, 54Gravy, 131
Green Goddess Dressing, 
Avocado, 168
Grinders, 55, 57–58Guacamole, Nectarine, 177
H
Ham, 131
Harissa Hot Sauce, 164–65
Hash Brown Quiches, 
Mini, 208
Health food stores, 81
Herbs. see also 
individual herbsgrowing, 97Herb Yogurt, 147
shopping for, 77
storing, 78
Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread, 228–30
Holidays, 130–32Hua, Stephenie, 47
I
Ice Cream, Coconut-  
Cinnamon, 247–48
International markets, 81
J
Jam, Roasted Fig and 
Tomato Slow, 162
Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, and Salsa, 255–56
Jicama
Corn Jicama Salsa, 255–56cutting, 46Dill Oil Jicama “Fries,” 217
Jicama Buns, 120
Johnson, Rachel K., 15K
Kale, 182
Kale Cobb Salad, 184Mini Hash Brown 
Quiches, 208
Roasted Squash and 
Kale Salad, 183
Karma, culinary, 142
Kitchen Cupboard 
Chocolate Bark, 127
Knives, 47, 55
L
Labels, reading, 74–75Lamb Chops, Harissa, 
and Lemon Fennel, Polenta with, 252–53
Lapine, Phoebe, 25Leftovers, 62, 71
Lemons
Lemon Chicken 
Orzo, 172–73
Lemon Fennel, 252
Lemon Tahini 
Dressing, 170
Lemon Zinger Bars, 175zesting, 67
Lettuce
Grilled Lettuce Salad, 171
Lettuce Spring Rolls, 120
Limes
Carrot-Lime Slaw, 255Lime-Chili Street 
Carrots, 179
zesting, 67
Lin, Irvin, 70Lobster substitutes, 86
Logue, Dick, 44Low-sodium cooking
approaches to, 24–27benefits of, 27children and, 23commandments 
of, 160–61
fears about, 40–41, 
48, 137, 161
flavor and, 10, 13guides to, 44learning, 39–49reputation of, 10, 13, 24–25sharing, 141–46
switching to, 28–37
teaching, 143
technology and, 136–37
travel and, 138–39
at work, 107–23
Lunch ideas, 115–16, 123
M
Macaroon Custard 
Tarts, 225–27
The MacGyver 
 Vinaigrette, 119
Maharaja-Style Curry 
Powder, 195
Maillard reaction, 47
Mandolines, 59–60Matzo, 108Mayonnaise substitutes, 87
McCord, Catherine, 23
McCormick, Erin, 48Measuring cups and 
spoons, 56
Mei Mei’s Green Onion 
Pancakes, 151
Microwave ovens, 42Milk, 87Mint
Mint Chip–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Mint Whipped 
Cream, 261–63
Miso sauce substitute, 88Mistakes, avoiding 
common, 42
Mixers, 59
Mostyn, Bobbie, 44
Muffin tins, 56, 110Mushrooms
Baked Dim Sum 
Dumplings, 231–33
Cauliflower and 
Mushroom Spread, 259
Cauliflower Steaks with 
Curry Mushroom Gravy, 203–4
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122Roast Beef and Mustard 
Seed Carrots, 189–91
shopping for, 77
N
Nectarines
Kale Cobb Salad, 184
Nectarine Guacamole, 177
Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and Fruits, 223–24
Nori
Nori Wrap, 120Toasted Rice Patties, 
180–81
Nuts
Dukka Spice Mix, 188
grinding, 70
storing, 62toasting, 47
O
Oats
for breakfast, 109
DIY Oatmeal, 111
Lemon Zinger Bars, 175
Oils
storing, 62
testing temperature 
of, 146
Olive substitutes, 87Onions
Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing, 169
Mei Mei’s Green Onion 
Pancakes, 151
Oranges
Orange-Ginger Sauce, 218zesting, 67
Orzo, Lemon Chicken, 
172–73
Oven mitts, 56
Ovenproof dishes, 42, 56
P
Pancakes
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes, 210IND eX  :  271ideas for, 145–46
Mei Mei’s Green Onion 
Pancakes, 151
Pancake Cakes, 127
Pans, 54, 56, 57, 58, 59Pantry essentials, 61–62
Paprika, 63
Parchment paper, 42, 57Parsnip Fries, Crunchy, 215
Parties, 105, 125–27, 
129–33, 161
Pasta
Broccoli Gnocchi 
with Lemon Cream 
Sauce, 235–36
dough, frozen, 68–69
Lemon Chicken 
Orzo, 172–73
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244
Pasta makers, 60
Pastry brushes, 57Pavlova Whoopie Pies 
with Mint Whipped Cream, 261–63
Peaches
Peach-Jalapeño Sauce, 255Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and Fruits, 223–24
Peas
Carrot Vegetable Noodle 
Salad with Spicy 
Shrimp, 199–200
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad, 197
Cilantro-Pea Spread, 260
Firefly Falafel with 
Herb Yogurt, 147
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Green Chilaquiles, 241–42Green Pea Posole, 239–41
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw, 218
Peeling, 47, 59
Pepitas
Dukka Spice Mix, 188
Roasted Squash and 
Kale Salad, 183
Toasted Pepita Mix, 176Peppercorns, 63
Pickles, 87
Pickled Cherries, 249–51
Pie crusts, 69, 87Pine nuts
Cauliflower-Nut 
“Ricotta,” 196
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad, 197
Dukka Spice Mix, 188
Pizza
Chickpea-Flour Pizza, 94sodium in, 16
Pizza dough
frozen, 68substitutes, 86
Polenta
Chili Polenta Fries, 216Polenta with Lamb Chops, 
Harissa, and Lemon Fennel, 252–53
Pork
Baked Dim Sum 
Dumplings, 231–33
Coconut “Panko” Pork 
Tonkatsu, 218–20
frozen, 69
Salt-Free Bacon, 93
shopping for, 75Speedy Five-Spice 
Pulled Pork, 118
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244
Visra’s Comfort Soup, 150
Posole, Green Pea, 239–41Potassium chloride, 17Potatoes
disposals and, 42
mashed, 131
Mini Hash Brown 
Quiches, 208
Potato Waffles, 213Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and 
Fruits, 223–24
Puddings
Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Mint Chip–Chia 
Pudding, 112Q
Quiches, Mini Hash 
Brown, 208
R
Radishes
Kale Cobb Salad, 184Radish-and-Onion 
Yogurt Spread, 179
Ramekins, 57
Raspberries
Macaroon Custard 
Tarts, 225–27
Recipes
altering, 42, 83–91, 160reading, 41
Red pepper flakes, 63
Reductions, 47
Refrigerator essentials, 68Restaurants, 99–103Rice
Firefly Falafel with 
Herb Yogurt, 147
Toasted Rice Patties, 
180–81
Rice cookers, 57Rice crackers, 108Rolling pins, 57
S
Safety tips, 41Salad dressings
Avocado Green Goddess 
Dressing, 168
Carrot–Sweet Onion 
Dressing, 169
for dining out, 86Lemon Tahini 
Dressing, 170
The MacGyver 
Vinaigrette, 119
Salads
Carrot-Lime Slaw, 255Carrot Vegetable Noodle 
Salad with Spicy Shrimp, 199–200
Cauliflower Rice, Pea, and 
Edamame Salad, 197Grilled Lettuce Salad, 171ingredients for, 115–16Kale Cobb Salad, 184
Roasted Squash and 
Kale Salad, 183
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw, 218
Salad spinners, 57
Salmon Patties, Dukka-  
Spiced, 187–88
Salsas. see Sauces and salsas
Salt
flavor and, 20–21
sodium and, 14substitutes, 17
table vs. sea, 17
Saltiness, 19
“The Salty Six,” 15–17
Sandwiches
bread for, 121
Collard Leaf Lavash, 120
Corn-Broccoli 
Burgers, 201
Cucumber Baguettes, 120
Jicama Buns, 120
Nori Wrap, 120
sodium in, 16Super-Simple Sandwich 
Bread, 149
Sauces and salsas
Corn Jicama Salsa, 255–56creamy, 86
Dilly Chimichurri, 163
freezing, 71Harissa Hot Sauce, 164–65
Orange-Ginger Sauce, 218
Peach-Jalapeño Sauce, 255Roasted Fig and Tomato 
Slow Jam, 162
Sauce Gribiche, 166–67tomato, 88
Sausage substitutes, 86, 87
Sausner, Haley, 144
Scales, 597-Day Taste Bud 
Reboot, 28–32
Shanaman, Beth, 48, 75Shichimi, 65Shopping
entertaining and, 126locations for, 81online, 81, 137
reading labels and, 74–75272  :  LOW-SO GOODrelationships and, 80
tips for, 76–77
Shrimp
Carrot Vegetable Noodle 
Salad with Spicy 
Shrimp, 199–200
frozen, 69
shopping for, 75
Slaws
Carrot-Lime Slaw, 255
Sugar Snap Pea Slaw, 218
Slow cookers, 57
Smoking chips, 60
Social media, 136Sodium. see also  
Low-sodium cooking
calculating total, 158
importance of, 15
on labels, 74–75
recommended 
intake of, 15
salt and, 14sources of, 14, 15–17
Soups
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Green Pea Posole, 239–41
ideas for, 145
Roasted Pepper and 
Butternut Squash Soup, 243
sodium in, 16–17
Visra’s Comfort Soup, 150
Sour cream substitute, 88
Sourness, 18
Soy sauce substitute, 88
Spatulas, 58
Spices
Dukka Spice Mix, 188
enhancing flavor with, 22
Maharaja-Style Curry 
Powder, 195
shopping for, 63–64, 81
storing, 62
stretching, 65
toasting, 62
Spoons, wooden, 59
Spreads
Broccoli and Basil 
Spread, 259
Butternut Squash–Dukka 
Spice Spread, 260Cauliflower and 
Mushroom Spread, 259
Cilantro-Pea Spread, 260
Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread, 228–30
Radish-and-Onion 
Yogurt Spread, 179
Roasted Fig and Tomato 
Slow Jam, 162
Spring Rolls, Lettuce, 120Squash
Baked Dim Sum 
Dumplings, 231–33
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes, 210
Butternut Squash–Dukka 
Spice Spread, 260
cutting, 45
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Lemon Chicken 
Orzo, 172–73
Roasted Pepper and 
Butternut Squash Soup, 243
Roasted Squash and 
Kale Salad, 183
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244
Star anise, 65Steak sauce substitute, 88Steamer baskets, 58
Sternman, Cheryl, 66Storage containers, 57
Stuckey, Barb, 20–21
Stuffing, 131
Substitutes, salt-free, 84–88
Sumac, 53
Sunday Chicken with 
Roasted Roots and 
Fruits, 223–24
Sweetness, 18
T
Tacos
ideas for, 89
Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, and Salsa, 255–56
Tahini Dressing, Lemon, 170Tarts, Macaroon 
Custard, 225–27
Tastes, five, 18–19
Tea
Banana Chai–Chia 
Pudding, 112
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Television shows, 44
Teriyaki sauce substitute, 88
Texture, 22, 160Thermometers, 58
Thomson, Jess, 67
Tilapia
Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread, 228–30
Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, 
and Salsa, 255–56
Timing, 40–41, 58, 158
Tofu
Curry Tofu Fries, 217
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Tomatoes
as broth substitute, 85
Nectarine Guacamole, 177
Roasted Fig and Tomato 
Slow Jam, 162
sauces, 88
Tongs, 58–59Tortillas
for breakfast, 109
Green Chilaquiles, 241–42
Jerk-ish Fish Tacos 
with Sauce, Slaw, 
and Salsa, 255–56
Microwave Tostada, 113
Tostada, Microwave, 113
Travel, 138–39
Turkey, 75, 131–32
U
Umami, 19
V
Vegetables. see also  
individual vegetablesblanching, 69as broth substitutes, 85
cutting, 45–46
frozen, 71
growing, 97
shopping for, 77
Visra’s Comfort Soup, 150
W
Waffles
Everything Waffles, 211–13
Potato Waffles, 213
Watermelon, cutting, 46
Weaver, Stephanie, 33
Websites, 44, 81, 101, 136–37
Whipped cream
Coconut Whipped 
Cream, 193–94
Mint Whipped 
Cream, 261–63
Whipped Cream, Brown 
Sugar, and Berries, 127
Wilder, Andrew, 26Wilkens, Katy, 48
Woodward, Denise, 89
Work, 107–23
Y
Yogurt, 108
Herb Yogurt, 147Hickory-Smoked Fish 
Spread, 228–30
Radish-and-Onion 
Yogurt Spread, 179
Z
Za’atar, 65
Zest, 67
Zucchini
Baked Dim Sum 
Dumplings, 231–33
Banana-Zucchini 
Pancakes, 210
Genmaicha Microwave 
Soup, 122
Stuffed Shells with 
Butternut Sauce, 244jessica goldman foung  is a food writer 
and blogger who draws inspiration from her own 
low-sodium lifestyle. Days after turning twenty-one, 
Jess was diagnosed with lupus, which caused her to drastically reduce her sodium intake. She began a quest for information and community that would 
allow her to live and eat fully. She has written for and 
contributed to many publications, and partners with the American Heart Association and the National 
Kidney Foundation. Jessica lives, works, and explores 
low-sodium dining options in San Francisco, CA. 
john lee  is a San Francisco–based photographer 
specializing in food and portraiture.Want More
Chronicle Ebooks?
CLICKHERE!
Get
Freebies,
discounts,
and more!