Other Asian foods like Japanese, Korean, and Vietnamese, among 
others, followed a similar path. These immigrants brought their tradi -
tional cooking techniques and flavors, often out of necessity, and then 
fused them with American ingredients that were both popular and 
affordable. And as a result, many Asian American restaurants integrated 
their immigrant foods into popular mainstream America.
This book honors and celebrates many signature Asian dishes that 
we have all grown to enjoy. You’ll discover fun food facts and new cooking 
techniques and learn how to use authentic seasonings, herbs, and sauces 
while fusing them with popular ingredients you can find in your local 
supermarket. Our Easy Asian Cookbook  will help you master 100+ restau -
rant recipes in the comfort of your kitchen.
x INTRODUCTION1ONE
America Is a 
Crossroads for 
All Asian Foods
•
America is a multicultural and multiracial country, with  
more than 45 million immigrants living in the United States today. 
We have more immigrants in America than any country in the world. 
And Asian Americans are the fastest growing group, making up 
30 percent of the country’s total immigrants.
Of course, Asia is a huge place with many histories, cultures, and 
foods. And thanks to that diversity, we enjoy a smorgasbord of Asian 
American dining that fuses many different traditional cooking tech -
niques and flavors with American ingredients. This cookbook focuses 
on popular restaurant recipes that originated in Asia but were made in 
America. And in this sense, Asian restaurants are both great ambassa -
dors and innovators of Asian food in the United States. They combine 
flavors and techniques from their origin with ingredients that can be 
found in supermarkets everywhere. And each immigrant community has 
enriched America with its food. Let’s meet these Asian ambassadors!2 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKMeet the Ambassadors of Asian 
Food in the United States
During the mid 19th and early 20th centuries, a great number of Asian 
immigrants moved to the United States in search of new opportunities. 
Today, a diverse mix of Asian people including, but certainly not limited 
to, the Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Vietnamese, Korean, and Thai, among 
other communities, make up a large portion of immigrants who live in 
the United States.
For many immigrants, food is more than just a way to celebrate their 
heritage. Those who knew how to cook and prepare these dishes used it as 
a way to survive financially. In many cases, they opened restaurants and 
found ways to introduce their native foods to the American public, using 
American ingredients and making dishes more suitable to their palate. In 
other cases, immigrants opened up restaurants to cater more to their spe -
cific community, which introduced Americans to more authentic flavors 
of diverse cuisines. But as time went on, new generations of chefs started 
mixing together Western and Eastern influences. In the process, Asian 
American restaurateurs have created a variety of beloved fusion cuisines.
One popular example can be seen in the way Chinese restaurant 
owners took America’s love of creamed corn and fused it with a tradi -
tional style of egg flower soup using cornstarch as a thickener. Restaurant 
patrons know this recipe today as Chicken Corn Soup (page 60). By 
comparison, Japanese restaurant owners took their style of teppanyaki 
cooking and added a beloved American ingredient—butter—to all their 
griddled dishes. This created the signature dish Hibachi Garlic Prawns 
(page 133), which tastes both new and familiar at the same time.
These days, it’s fairly easy for us to order takeout and sample tasty 
signature dishes from faraway Asian countries that we may never get to 
travel to. But thanks to old and new Asian restaurants that pioneered and 3 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSinnovated their cuisines in America, we can now savor their most popular 
takeout dishes in the comfort of our homes.
CHINESE
Of all the Asian food ambassadors, the Chinese community—the largest 
Asian American community in the United States—led the way as the most 
popular type of Asian cooking. Chinese cuisine brought wok cooking and 
stir-fries to America and made them mainstream kitchen staples in kitch -
ens everywhere. Dishes like Beef and Broccoli (page 118), Chicken  
Chow Mein (page 39), and Chicken Pot Stickers (page 26) introduced  
us to many signature flavors, cooking styles, and ingredients that were  
sometimes overlooked. Rice, soy sauce, ginger, scallions, chile paste, hoisin 
sauce, and oyster sauce are just a few of the many ingredients that  
Americans have grown to love.
FILIPINO
Although Filipino Americans make up the second largest Asian demo -
graphic in the United States, Filipino restaurants proliferated more slowly 
than some of their Asian counterparts. Of course, Filipino American food 
has existed as long as Filipino Americans have lived here, but it’s only 
been in the last few years that the cuisine has started getting some of the 
recognition it deserves. The cuisine of the Philippines, a country of more 
than 7,000 islands, is already a fusion in and of itself. It has been occupied 
throughout history by many different countries, including China, Spain, 
and the United States. As a result, its cuisine is multifaceted, with influ -
ences from these countries as well as indigenous communities.
Filipino American chefs in Los Angeles, where there are more 
Filipinos than anywhere else outside of Manila, are often credited 
with accelerating the Filipino food movement. Young American-born 
chefs have been introducing fusion dishes to make their local food 4 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKapproachable. With hip décor and fancy plating, dishes like Chicken 
Adobo (page 108) and Sinigang (page 64) are on their way to becoming  
household names just like the many other dishes we are all familiar 
with now.
VIETNAMESE
Vietnamese migrants brought us pho, a noodle soup prepared with 
either beef, chicken, or seafood, that has become incredibly popular in  
recent years. These flavorful bone-broth soups have gained a cult-like 
following, but they aren’t the only Vietnamese dishes to gain traction  
in the United States. Rice Noodles with Shrimp (page 44), Saigon 
Shrimp Spring Rolls (page 31), and Vietnamese Beef Stew (page 72), 
to name a few, are also widely available. The lightest cuisine of this 
bunch, Vietnamese food is a nice reprieve from the heavier cuisines 
that dominate the American diet. The hot climate of Vietnam molded 
its cuisine to be rice-based, and rice noodles often appear either in 
soup or tossed cold with grilled meats and tons of fresh herbs. The 
liberal use of fresh herbs and lime make this cuisine a healthier and 
lighter alternative to other Asian cuisines.
KOREAN
The sweet and spicy flavors of Korean food have made their mark in  
the United States in many different ways. Most prominently, Korean 
Americans introduced the country to their take on barbecue, where meats 
are marinated heavily in soy, sugar, garlic, and chiles, then grilled tableside 
and served with an array of small cold dishes called banchan. You can find 
Korean barbecue joints in most major cities, but that’s not the only type of 
Korean food to go mainstream. Now, dishes like bulgogi (grilled slices of 
marinated beef or pork) and bibimbap (a rice bowl with lots of mix-ins) are 
regular items that you can find in food courts, restaurants, and food  5 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODStrucks from coast to coast. This book includes recipes for Pork Bulgogi 
(page 124) and Street Dog Bibimbap (page 52), among other favorites.
Unlike some other Asian restaurants, the first Korean restaurants in 
the United States catered primarily to Korean Americans and didn’t try to 
attract others by changing flavors or ingredients. As a result, there aren’t 
really Korean equivalents to pad Thai or orange chicken, dishes that were 
specifically created to appeal to Western palates. But that doesn’t mean 
the chefs at some restaurants aren’t making their own fusion dishes. 
These days, you can find traditional Korean ingredients, such as kimchi, 
in everything from burritos to tacos to hot dogs, and American diners 
are eating them up. All this attention has elevated the prominence of 
gochujang—a savory, sweet, spicy fermented Korean red chile paste—to 
the point where it is readily available in most ordinary supermarkets.
JAPANESE
Japanese cuisine has gained great popularity and has also earned a highly 
esteemed reputation for attention to detail, fine craftsmanship, and use 
of high-quality ingredients. It’s not uncommon to fork over $150 or more 
for an omakase (chef’s choice) meal at a high-end sushi spot in the United 
States. Japanese cuisine introduced a palatable way to eat raw fish through 
Americanized preparations. Creative rolls like Philly rolls, where cream 
cheese and raw salmon make a delightful combo, are common ways to get 
a new diner to try something different. And as our doors to new cuisines 
open wider, we become more adventurous, leading to more authentic 
ingredients and preparations of sashimi and sushi. Americans chowing 
down on toro (a high-grade cut of tuna), amaebi (sweet shrimp), and uni 
(sea urchin) with complete joy is now a common sight at sushi bars.
Sushi and sashimi tend to be most abundant and of the highest 
caliber in major cities, but small towns have their share of restaurants 
serving simpler Japanese American fare such as Teriyaki Chicken 
(page 105) and Miso Soup (page 69). Also popular are restaurants 6 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKspecializing in teppanyaki cooking (also called “hibachi-style” in the 
United States), in which food is cooked on an iron griddle, often in front 
of customers. Ramen joints, which serve a variety of noodle soups, have 
also proliferated in recent years. This book includes recipes for Hibachi 
Garlic Prawns (page 133) and Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen (page 49) to sati -
ate your appetite for these favorites.
The variety of Japanese food is vast, but one thing is consistent 
among its dishes: The food isn’t particularly spicy, sour, or sweet. The 
flavors are simple and pure, which may be one reason why it translated so 
well to the American palate.
THAI AND OTHER GROUPS
Despite the relatively small population of Thai Americans living in the 
United States compared to other Asian groups, Thai restaurants have a 
big presence across the United States. During its first introduction to the 
country, Thai restaurant food often catered to the Western palate with 
menus composed of noodle or rice dishes that used sugar with a heavy 
hand. Dishes such as Pad Thai with Tofu (page 54), Drunken Noodles 
with Chicken (page 46), and Street-Style Chicken Satay (page 29) became 
stalwarts of Thai cuisine, though they were not necessarily authentic.
Now you can venture into Thai Town in Los Angeles or head to 
 Portland’s famous Thai spot Pok Pok to get more authentic flavors that 
combine spicy, sweet, salty, sour, and bitter all in the same dish, using 
ingredients such as spice, lime, rice powder, and fish sauce.
As Americans welcome different flavor profiles, other Asian 
cuisines—Malaysian, Indonesian, Cambodian, Myanmarese, and  
Sri Lankan, to name a few—are making their way into the American 
restaurant scene. This book provides a taste of those cuisines as well,  
with dishes such as Curry Potato Samosas (page 33), from Myanmar, and  
Parippu (page 96), a red lentil curry from Sri Lanka.7 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSLargest Asian 
Populations by US City
1 NEW YORK:  CHINESE.  The cuisine is heavily based on stir-fries 
seasoned with soy sauce, ginger, garlic, and scallions. m ongolian Beef 
(page 117) and Kung Pao Chicken (page 103) are two wok dishes repre -
sentative of this group.
2 DALY CITY, CA:  FILIPINO.  The cuisine has a mix of influences from 
other cultures, ranging from Spanish, Portuguese, and Chinese to  
American. It’s heavily based in pork, chicken, and seafood dishes, many of 
which are cooked with garlic, onions, tomatoes, carrots, and potatoes in 
a stew-like fashion. Chicken Adobo (page 108) and Lumpia (page 30) are 
favorites in the United States.
3 ORANGE COUNTY, CA:  VIETNAMESE.  Known to be much lighter 
than other Asian cuisines, Vietnamese food is largely focused on rice-  
based noodles served in soups or tossed cold as a salad, as well as grilled 
dishes wrapped in lettuce, aromatics, and fresh herbs. m any Vietnamese  
dishes use light dressings made from fish sauce, lime juice, and chile. 
Pho Ga (Hanoi Chicken Pho, page 43), Shaking Beef (page 122), and 
Saigon Shrimp Spring Rolls (page 31) are great examples of popular 
Vietnamese dishes.
4 LOS ANGELES:  KOREAN.  Korean cuisine is meat-based with many 
dishes marinated in chiles, soy, fermented chile paste, and pulsed fruit. In 
 addition to barbecue meats and stews, Korean food is also known for its 
many  pickled and fermented vegetable side dishes called banchan. Kimchi 
Army Stew (page 63) highlights kimchi, which is made with cabbage and is 
 perhaps the most popular of the Korean fermented delights.8 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK5 HONOLULU:  JAPANESE.  Japanese cuisine comes in many different 
forms including sushi, ramen, tempura, and curry. Hawaii has a long 
history with Japanese immigrants, and their influence can be seen in the 
cuisine. Recently, a version of poke has exploded onto the restaurant 
scene on the mainland. In Hawaii, poke is typically a marinated raw fish 
dish served with various condiments of Japanese influence. In the United 
States, poke is often made with tuna and served in a bowl with nontra -
ditional ingredients. This book includes a recipe for Tuna Poke Bowl 
(page 134).
6 LOS ANGELES:  THAI.  Thai food has a huge Chinese influence, as it 
has many similar stir-fried dishes. However, the flavor profiles differ. 
Rather than a focus on soy sauce, garlic, and ginger, Thai stir-fries 
make use of fish sauce, shrimp paste, chile, lemongrass, and tamarind. 
Salads and curries are also distinctive in Thai cuisine and are heav -
ily coconut-based, unlike many other Asian cuisines. Check out Green 
Papaya Salad (page 93) and Thai Basil Chicken (page 109), to try 
some favorites.9 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSBuild Your Asian Food Pantry
If you’re going to start cooking Asian takeout at home, you’ll need to 
stock a pantry. Here’s a list to get you started.
BASIC INGREDIENTS
Chile oil:  This is oil that has been simmered with dried chile flakes. It’s 
used to cook with and added to dishes for a kick of spice. Make your own 
or find it at Asian markets or in the Asian section of most supermarkets.
Chile powder:  This spice is made from a single type of ground dried 
chile. They all have slightly different tastes and heat levels. Don’t confuse 
this with “Chili powder seasoning,” which is a spice blend (usually with 
dried chiles, garlic, oregano, and cumin) primarily used to season chili, 
the bean-and-meat stew. Find common chile powders at any supermarket 
or look online for less common ones, such as gochugaru, Korean chile 
powder; and shichi-mi togarashi, Japanese seven-flavor chile powder.
Coconut milk:  Widely used in soups and curries to create a creamy 
texture. It typically comes in cans or cartons. Always use full-fat coconut 
milk for a richer flavor. Find it in the Asian section of most supermarkets.
Cornstarch:  A flavorless and opaque powder. It’s often used as a thick -
ening agent in Asian sauces, soups, stews, curries, and stir-fries by 
making a whisked “slurry” of equal parts water and cornstarch. Also used 
for marinating proteins before stir-frying. Find it in the baking section of 
any supermarket.
Dried chile flakes:  Adds mild heat to sauces, marinades, curries, and 
soups. Not to be confused with chile powder (ground dried chiles) which 
is spicier. Often labeled “red pepper flakes.” Find it in the spice section of 
any supermarket.10 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFish sauce:  A pungent seasoning made from anchovy and salt. It adds 
depth to a dish by bringing in a balance of salt and umami. Find it in the 
Asian section of any supermarket.
Hoisin sauce:  A rich, thick sauce that’s salty and sweet. Can be seen as 
the “Asian barbecue sauce,” but less sweet and minus the smokiness. Find 
it in the Asian section of any supermarket and get the Lee Kum Kee brand.
Rice (long-grain or short-grain):  Rice is the staple food of Asia. 
Southeast Asian and Chinese cuisines usually call for long-grain rice, 
which is aromatic, firm, light, and fluffy, while Japanese cuisine often calls 
for short-grain rice, which is slightly sticky, firmer, and chewy. You can use 
either type when recipes call for white rice. Some recipes call for jasmine 
rice, which is a fragrant type of long-grain rice, or sweet rice, a type of 
short-grain rice also called “glutinous rice.” Find them in the Asian section 
of any supermarket (and see my Steamed Rice recipe, page 19).
Rice noodles (thin or wide):  Noodles made from rice flour and 
water. They have a slippery, smooth, and sometimes springy feel and 
are widely used in Southeast Asia and Southern China. Can be eaten in 
soup or tossed with sauces as a salad. Find them in the Asian section of 
any supermarket.
Soy sauce:  Originated in China and is now used in most Asian cuisines. 
It is made from fermented soybeans and tastes salty and slightly sweet, 
with an umami flavor. Soy sauce has become mainstream and is readily 
available in any supermarket.
Sriracha:  A thick, salty, garlicky, slightly acidic, and slightly sweet chile 
sauce that originated in Thailand. This globally popular hot sauce can be 
found at any supermarket.
Toasted sesame oil:  Rich and nutty in flavor with a strong fragrant 
aroma. It is used in dressings, sauces, marinades, or as a seasoning. Find 
it in Asian markets, high-end grocery stores, and online.11 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSTurmeric powder:  This bright orange-yellow powder used in curries, 
marinades, soups, and sauces adds hints of ginger, orange, and musk to 
dishes. Find it in the spice section of any supermarket.
OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS
Black vinegar (chinkiang):  Similar to balsamic vinegar, except less 
sweet and with a bit of savory umami. Used as a dipping sauce for dump -
lings and to make sauces for noodles, stir-fries, and stews. Find it at Asian 
markets or online. Substitute with a dry balsamic that hasn’t been aged for long .
Curry paste:  Made from ground curry powder, ginger, garlic, salt, and 
herbs. It’s used as a marinade and a base for curry recipes and soups. This 
book calls for different types, such as red or yellow. Find them all in the 
Asian section of any supermarket or an Asian market. Substitute with a 
mixture of turmeric powder, dried chile flakes, coriander seeds, and cumin that 
has been toasted in oil over medium heat for 1 minute.
Dark soy sauce:  Used mostly in Chinese dishes, it’s an aged soy that 
contains caramel and molasses, which make it thicker, darker, and more 
robust in flavor than regular soy. Find it in Asian markets or online. Sub-
stitute with regular soy sauce.
Gochujang:  A slightly sweet Korean chile sauce made from fermented 
soybeans, glutinous rice, and chiles. Used as a seasoning, a marinade, or 
a component of sauces. Find it at high-end groceries or an Asian market. 
Substitute with a mix of sriracha and honey .
Kimchi:  Vegetables fermented with salt, chiles, seafood, and various 
aromatics. The most common kimchi is made from Napa cabbage. Find 
at high-end groceries and Asian markets. Substitute by marinating shred -
ded cabbage with salt, sugar, fish sauce, dried chile flakes, sriracha, garlic, 
and onions.12 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKLemongrass paste:  Used when fresh lemongrass is not available. Adds 
a fresh lemon-lime-ginger aroma and taste to dishes. Widely used in 
Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka. Can be found at Asian markets or online. 
Substitute with lime juice and zest.
Mirin:  Mirin is a subtly sweet, low-alcohol wine made from glutinous 
rice that is a staple in Japanese cooking. Similar to sake, though higher in 
sugar, it’s used to add sweetness and flavors to a variety of dishes, sauces, 
and glazes. Sometimes, it’s simply called “rice wine.” Find it in the Asian 
section of most supermarkets, in Asian markets, and online. Substitute 
with dry white wine.
Miso:  A Japanese seasoning made from fermented soybeans, salt, grains, 
and other ingredients. There are various types of miso pastes, such as red, 
white, and brown. Used as a base for soups, marinades, and sauces. Find it 
at Asian markets or online. Substitute with soy sauce and tahini.
Oyster sauce:  A sweet, salty, and rich sauce made from oysters, sugar, 
and salt. This thick, savory, caramel-like seasoning is used in Chinese, 
Thai, Vietnamese, and Malay cuisines. Find it at Asian markets or online. 
Substitute with a mix of soy sauce and hoisin sauce .
Sake:  Japanese rice wine that comes in dry and sweet versions. Find it at 
high-end groceries and Asian markets. Substitute with dry white wine.
Shrimp paste:  Made from fermented crushed shrimp with salt and 
used in soups, curries, and sauces. Find it at Asian markets and online. 
Substitute with small amounts of anchovy paste.
Tamarind paste:  Made from tamarind pods to add a sour flavor to 
dishes. Used in Filipino, Thai, and other Southeast Asian cuisines. Find 
it at Asian markets or online. Substitute with equal parts lime juice and 
brown sugar.13 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSFUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Gourmands and historians will tell you that food not only shapes your 
present and future, but it also molded your past. And when it comes to 
Asian cuisine, these three foods played an important part in the region 
and determined the fate of many people all over the world.
Rice is one of the oldest foods, a pillar of nutrition that helped humanity 
evolve from a hunting and gathering society to a farming one. Asia alone 
grows and eats 90 percent of the world’s rice. And the Chinese even used 
rice to build some of their most famous monuments—The Great Wall of 
China is partially held together with sticky rice! This cookbook features 
8 rice dishes, and 33 main dishes are served with rice.
Sesame oil is an excellent source of nutrition. Many consider sesame 
seeds a superfood that is good for hair and skin, and they help reduce 
stress and anxiety. This cookbook features 28 sesame oil recipes, ranging 
from comfort foods like Wonton Soup (page 61) to healthy vegetable 
dishes like Sesame Bean Sprouts (page 88) and Cold Tofu with Scallions 
(page 79). 
Pork is a signature ingredient in Asia, highly esteemed for taste, 
texture, and color. And for many Chinese, this food is also part of their 
philosophy. Confucius is credited with saying that the way you cut your 
meat reflects the way you live. And from pork loin to pork belly and pork 
shoulder, these cuts have shaped Asian cuisine since antiquity. This cook -
book features 13 pork recipes and 23 dishes that can be made with pork.14 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKnow Your Kitchen Tools
These are the common kitchen tools you’ll use often when making recipes 
in this cookbook. While they are highly recommended and used in the 
recipes here, you can sometimes substitute them with a more common 
piece of kitchen equipment.
Cast-iron skillet:  The ability to retain high, consistent heat makes a 
skillet desirable for all your frying needs.
Chopsticks:  Use chopsticks to mix, whisk, stir-fry, and pick up food. 
They’re a versatile tool that can be used for everything. Substitute with a 
standard fork for mixing and whisking, a flat wooden spatula for stir-frying, 
and tongs to pick up food.
Clay pot:  Many braises, stews, and curries are made in a clay pot. It 
retains greater heat for longer periods of time and is often served directly 
on the table once the dish is done cooking. Substitute with a Dutch oven or 
enameled cast-iron pot.
Food processor:  This everyday kitchen gadget is extremely useful for 
mixing, blending, and pulsing ingredients into pastes or sauces.
Large stockpot:  Every kitchen should be equipped with a large, 
heavy-bottomed stockpot for boiling and for making soups and broths.
Mandoline:  This handy tool helps you slice vegetables thinly and 
quickly. Substitute with a chef ’s knife (and practice with patience!) or purchase 
shredded or precut vegetables.15 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSNonstick wok:  A workhorse in the Asian kitchen, the wok is used for 
stir-frying, shallow-frying, steaming, and sautéing. A 14-inch wok is 
a great size to start with. Almost every dish (except soups, stews, and 
braises) can be prepared in a wok. Substitute with a cast-iron skillet or non -
stick sauté pan.
Rice cooker:  Most households that eat rice on a daily basis have a rice 
cooker. It prepares rice perfectly, can be left alone to cook without moni -
toring, and can keep rice warm for later use. Substitute with a saucepot on 
the stovetop. See page 19 for my stovetop method.
Saucepot:  Smaller than a stockpot, this pot can handle recipes for 
soups, curries, and boiling.
Stainless steel steamer stack and pot set:  Steamer stacks are 
commonly used in Chinese cuisine for steaming seafood, dumplings, dim 
sum, proteins, and vegetables. A full steamer stack and pot set can take 
up cupboard space and be costly, especially if you only use it for steaming. 
Substitute with a simple steam rack placed in a large stockpot with water filled 
halfway to the rack. Place a flat plate or shallow bowl on the rack, and you are 
ready to steam.16 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKPolish Your Cooking Techniques
This book uses a few common cooking techniques again and again. Here’s 
what you need to know to successfully complete each.
Boiling:  Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high heat, then add the 
ingredients and cook until tender.
Braising:  First sauté or sear the ingredients with oil in a clay pot or 
Dutch oven over high heat. Then add the liquid, such as stock, to the pot. 
Reduce the heat to low, cover the pot, and simmer the ingredients for the 
time specified to allow the flavors to build, ingredients to tenderize, and 
liquid to be reduced.
Deep-frying:  Place 3 to 4 inches of oil in a wok or cast-iron skillet and 
heat it over high heat to 375°F. Once the oil is hot, add the ingredients 
and cook until golden brown. Sometimes, you must work in batches 
because crowding the wok can cool the oil too much and affect cooking.
Pan-frying:  Heat a sauté pan or skillet over high heat, then add a small 
amount of oil. Add the ingredients and cook on each side until golden 
brown or fully cooked. When pan-frying dumplings, water and oil are 
added to the skillet with a lid on. Once the water evaporates, oil sears the 
bottom of the dumplings to a golden crisp.
Shallow-frying:  Place 1 inch of oil in a wok or cast-iron skillet and 
heat over medium heat. Add the ingredients and cook until golden 
brown on both sides. This technique lets you control doneness more than 
deep-frying, as it uses a lower heat level.17 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSSteaming:  This is the healthiest method of cooking. Add water to a 
steamer pot or pan so that it only comes halfway up to the steam rack. 
Add the rack and set the pot over high heat. When the water boils, place 
ingredients in the steamer or on a plate on the steam rack (see page 15). 
Reduce the heat to medium, cover the pot, and cook until tender. 
Remember, the ingredient itself does not touch water. The boiling water 
vaporizes into a hot steam that cooks the food.
Stir-frying:  Heat a wok or cast-iron skillet over high heat. Add a small 
amount of oil and move the wok in a circular motion to coat its surface 
with oil. Once the oil is hot, add the ingredients and cook, still over high 
heat and stirring constantly. It’s a quick process, and the order in which 
you work is important. Aromatics such as ginger, garlic, scallions, spices 
are always added first, then proteins, then vegetables last. Typically, a 
stir-fry is finished with a slurry of cornstarch and water, which thickens 
the sauce created in the wok.18 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKAbout the Recipes
This book was written to be an easy cookbook that introduces you to 
common Asian ingredients and techniques. However, it’s not meant to be 
an authentic or comprehensive resource to all Asian cuisine—one book 
could surely never do justice to such a multifaceted subject. That’s why 
these recipes focus on new and old restaurant favorites that originated 
in Asia or were inspired by Asian cooking, but which were reinvented or 
created in the United States.
While the recipes highlight Asian ingredients and kitchen equipment,  
remember that you can always refer to the ingredient list (page 9) and  
kitchen tools list (page 14) in this chapter to find substitutes and  
alternatives.
Each recipe includes labels to help you find the dishes you’d like to 
make. These include:
 • Country of origin or inspiration
 • Dietary options (Gluten-free, Nut-free, Soy-free, Vegetarian)
 • Indicators of ease and time
• 5 INGREDIENTS   (uses five ingredients or less, excluding salt, 
pepper, water, and oil)
• FASTER THAN DELIVERY  (can be made in 45 minutes or less)
• ONE POT  (the entire recipe can be made in one pot or pan)
• TAKEOUT FAVORITE  (the most popular dishes at 
Asian restaurants)
Many recipes also include cooking, ingredient, and substitution tips 
to make your time in the kitchen as easy as possible. Let’s get cooking!19 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSSteamed Rice
GLUTEN-FREE  •  NUT-FREE  •  SOY-FREE  •  VEGETARIAN  
5 INGREDIENTS  •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY  •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
If you don’t have a rice cooker, you can make rice on the stovetop. This is a 
basic recipe for medium-grain rice. Cooking time and rice-to-water ratio can 
sometimes vary depending on your stove’s heat level and the brand of rice. 
It may take a couple tries to get your rice perfect, but this is a good place 
to start.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
2 cups medium-grain 
white rice
23/4 cups water1. Rinse the rice under cold water and drain. 
Repeat this process until the water runs clear; 
usually 2 to 3 times is enough.
2. Combine the rice and the water in a saucepan 
that has a tight-fitting lid. Turn the heat to 
high, cover the pan, and bring to a boil.
3. Immediately reduce the heat to low and simmer 
for 10 minutes, or until the water has been 
absorbed. Don’t lift the lid while it cooks. 
Remove from the heat and set aside to rest for 
10 minutes with the lid still on.
4. Remove the lid and fluff the rice with a fork or 
chopsticks. Serve.CHINESE20 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKSAN FRANCISCO 
CHINESE:  Red Oil  
Tossed Pork Wontons 
(page 25)
FILIPINO:  Fried  
Tilapia with Salsa 
(page 138)
JAPANESE:  Chicken  
Katsu Curry (page 70)
FREMONT
CHINESE:  Kung Pao 
Chicken (page 103)
FILIPINO:  Sinigang 
(page 64)
KOREAN:  Pork 
Bulgogi (page 124)
LOS ANGELES 
CAMBODIAN:  Pork 
Curry (page 71)
FILIPINO:  Lumpia 
(page 30)
INDONESIAN:  Mie 
Goreng (page 53)
JAPANESE:  Pineapple 
Yakult Ice Pops (page 146)
KOREAN:  Korean Short  
Rib Soup (Galbitang) 
(page 62)
THAI:  Drunken 
Noodles (page 46)HONOLULU
CHINESE:  Beef  
and Broccoli 
(page 118)
FILIPINO:  Chicken 
Kare Kare (page 65)
JAPANESE:  Teriyaki 
Chicken (page 105)SAN DIEGO
FILIPINO:  Filipino 
Chocolate Rice Pudding  
(Champorado) (page 150)
KOREAN:  Street Dog 
Bibimbap (page 52)
THAI:  Street-Style  
Chicken Satay (page 29)
VIETNAMESE:  
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho) (page 72)SEATTLE 
JAPANESE:  Shoyu Pork 
Corn Ramen (page 49)Largest Asian Food Communities in the U.S.
SACRAMENTO 
JAPANESE:  Hibachi 
Garlic Prawns  
(page 133)
DALY CITY 
FILIPINO:   
Chicken Adobo 
(page 108)
SAN JOSE
CHINESE:  Pumpkin Rice Cake  
(page 148)
JAPANESE:  Miso Soup (page 69)
VIETNAMESE:  Saigon Shrimp 
Spring Rolls (page 31)This map includes some of the 
cities with the largest Asian 
communities and some dishes 
from those communities  
featured in the book.21 AmERICA IS A CROSSROADS fOR ALL ASIAN fOODSLargest Asian Food Communities in the U.S.
NEW YORK
CHINESE:  Mapo Tofu 
with Pork (page 120)
INDONESIAN:  Crispy 
Tofu with Peanut 
Sauce (page 95)
KOREAN:  Sesame Bean 
Sprouts (page 88)
MALAYSIAN:  Lamb 
Rendang (page 73)
SRI LANKAN:  
Red Lentil Curry 
(Parippu) (page 96)
THAI:  Pad Thai with 
Tofu (page 54)
PHILADELPHIA
CHINESE:  Honey Walnut 
Shrimp (page 131)
KOREAN:  Sweet and 
Spicy Korean Short Ribs 
(Galbi) (page 125)
VIETNAMESE:  Rice 
Noodles with Shrimp  
(Bún Cha)  (page 44)CHICAGO
CHINESE:  Chicken 
Chow Mein (page 39)
JAPANESE:  Shoyu 
Pork Corn Ramen 
(page 49)
KOREAN:  Japchae 
(page 51)
HOUSTON
CHINESE:  Chicken Pot 
Stickers (page 26)
KOREAN:  Kimchi Army Stew 
(Budae Jijigae) (page 63)MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL
MYANMARESE:  Curry 
Potato Samosas (page 33)INDIANAPOLIS
MYANMARESE:  Mint 
Chicken (page 110)STREET-STYLE CHICKEN SATAY , PAGE 2923
TWO
Appetizers
•
Red Oil Tossed Pork Wontons 25
Chicken Pot Stickers (Guo-tie-) 26
Minced Chicken Lettuce Wraps 27
Shrimp Toast 28
Street-Style Chicken Satay 29
Lumpia 30
Saigon Shrimp Spring Rolls 31
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes 32
Curry Potato Samosas 33
Crab Rangoon 3424 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKAppetizers are often the most exciting part of the meal.  
They entice diners and give them a preview of what’s to come. Appe -
tizers are meant to be shared in Asian culture, which means that 
you can enjoy a wide variety of textures and flavors in the appetizer 
courses alone. There are steamed, boiled, deep-fried, and pan-fried 
appetizers, and then there are sweet, spicy, tangy, and savory flavors. 
In this chapter, you will learn to make some of the most popular Asian 
appetizers we’ve all come to love. m any of these recipes not only are 
easy to make but can be made faster than you can get them ordered 
and delivered from a restaurant.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
The word wonton  has several literal meanings, depending on which 
region of China you are referring to. “Cloud swallow,” “crossed hands,” 
and “chaos” are a few of the word’s literal meanings. Each region in 
China has its own version of wontons, which are wrapped in various 
shapes and prepared with different fillings. They can also be eaten in 
different ways—steamed, boiled, in soup, tossed, or pan-fried. Red Oil 
Tossed Pork Wontons (page 25) hail from the Sichuan region of China 
and are served tossed in a spicy chile oil sauce. In Shanghai, wontons are 
larger than in Sichuan and are served in a rich chicken broth or pan-fried. 
In Cantonese cuisine, wontons are much more delicate. Shrimp or pork 
filling is wrapped in thin wrappers and served floating in a light broth 
made from dried shrimp and pork bone.25 APPETIzERS 25 APPETIzERSRed Oil Tossed Pork Wontons
NUT-FREE
These wontons hail from the Sichuan Province, where wontons are usually 
filled with pork and tossed in sauce, not served in soup as is common in other 
areas. To speed things up, flavorful Italian sausage is used in this recipe instead 
of ground pork.
MAKES 20 wontons
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
3/4 pound Italian sausage
1 teaspoon minced ginger
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
20 square 
wonton wrappers
1/2 cup chile oil
1 tablespoon dried 
chile flakes
3 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon black vinegar1. To make the filling, mix together the sausage, 
ginger, and sesame oil in a bowl.
2. Place one wrapper on the palm of your hand. 
Add 1 teaspoon of filling to the center. Dip your 
finger in water and wet two edges of the wrap -
per. Fold the wrapper over to form a triangle. 
Press out the air, then press the edges to seal. 
Dab water on the left corner, place the right 
corner over the left corner, and press down.
3. Repeat this process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers.
4. Bring a large pot of water to a boil over high 
heat. Add the wontons and cook until they 
float, then cook for 30 more seconds. Transfer 
the wontons to a bowl with a slotted spoon.
5. Whisk together the chile oil, chile flakes, soy 
sauce, and vinegar, then pour the sauce over the 
wontons and serve.
SWAP IT:  Substitute the black vinegar with 
balsamic vinegar.CHINESE26 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 26 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Chicken Pot Stickers (Guōtiē)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The phrase guo– tie– literally means “wok stick” in Mandarin. Many believe pot 
stickers were an accidental creation. It’s said that the Imperial chef of the 
Song Dynasty boiled the water dry in his wok, causing his dumplings to stick to 
it. After peeling them off and discovering a delightful crisp texture, he served 
the dish, and it became a hit.
MAKES 20 pot stickers
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1/2 pound ground chicken
1/4 cup finely chopped celery
1/4 cup finely chopped  
scallions
3 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
20 round 
dumpling wrappers
1/3 cup water
1 tablespoon canola oil1. To make the filling, mix together the chicken, 
celery, scallions, soy sauce, sugar, cornstarch, 
and sesame oil in a bowl.
2. Place one wrapper on the palm of your hand. 
Add 1 teaspoon of filling to the center. Dip your 
finger in water and wet the bottom-half edge 
of the wrapper. Fold the wrapper over to form 
a half-circle. Press out the air, then press the 
edges to seal.
3. Repeat this process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers.
4. In a nonstick pan over high heat, pour in the 
water and dumplings. Cover the pan and cook 
until the water is absorbed, 6 to 8 minutes. 
Work in batches if needed; do not overcrowd 
the pan.
5. Add the canola oil to the pan and fry the dump -
lings until golden brown, about 2 minutes.
6. If working in batches, remove the dumplings 
and cook the next batch in a clean pan.
SERVING TIP:  Buy gyoza sauce for pot stickers or 
make your own by mixing soy sauce with vinegar, srira -
cha, and sesame oil.27 APPETIzERS 27 APPETIzERSCHINESE
Minced Chicken Lettuce Wraps
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Lettuce wraps have become popular in the last decade due to low-carb diets, 
but they were a favorite dish on Chinese American restaurant menus long 
before that. In Cantonese, lettuce wraps are called sang choy bao .
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
3/4 pound ground chicken
2 tablespoons soy 
sauce, divided
2 teaspoons cornstarch,  
divided
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 teaspoon salt, divided
1 head romaine lettuce
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 large zucchini, 
finely chopped
1 red bell pepper, 
finely chopped
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce
1 teaspoon water1. In a bowl, combine the chicken with 
1 tablespoon of soy sauce, 1 teaspoon of corn -
starch, the sugar, sesame oil, and 1/2 teaspoon of 
salt and marinate for 5 minutes.
2. Peel the romaine leaves off the core, rinse them, 
and let them air dry.
3. In a wok over high heat, pour in the canola oil. 
Add the marinated chicken, zucchini, and bell 
pepper and stir-fry for 5 minutes.
4. Add the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of salt, the 
remaining 1 tablespoon of soy sauce, and the 
hoisin sauce and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
5. Mix the water with the remaining 1 teaspoon of 
cornstarch to make a slurry. Add it to the wok 
and stir-fry for 1 minute.
6. Place the filling in the romaine leaves and serve.
SERVING TIP:  For added crunch, sprinkle sliced 
almonds or candied peanuts on top.28 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 28 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Shrimp Toast
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Shrimp toast originated from the Guangdong Province more than 100 years 
ago. It’s commonly served at dim sum restaurants. Shrimp toast is called “hai 
tosi” in Cantonese, with hai meaning “shrimp” and tosi meaning “toast.”
MAKES 12 pieces
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
10 medium shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
1/2 teaspoon garlic salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup finely 
chopped scallions
1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 egg white
1/4 cup black sesame seeds
3 white bread slices, 
toasted, crusts removed, 
and quartered
3 tablespoons canola oil1. In a food processor or blender, combine the 
shrimp, garlic salt, sugar, scallions, sesame 
oil, and egg white and pulse until a smooth 
paste forms.
2. Pour the sesame seeds onto a plate.
3. Spread 1 tablespoon of shrimp paste on each 
triangle of toast.
4. Roll each triangle, paste-side down, into sesame 
seeds to coat.
5. Heat the canola oil in a nonstick sauté pan 
or skillet over medium heat. Add the toast, 
sesame-side down, and cook on each side for 
2 minutes, or until golden brown.
SWAP IT:  Substitute black sesame seeds with white 
sesame seeds or poppy seeds.29 APPETIzERS 29 APPETIzERSINDONESIAN
Street-Style Chicken Satay
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Although satay can be found on Asian menus of all stripes, the Thai version 
is likely the most popular, given the number of Thai restaurants in the United 
States. But the Javanese from Indonesia are the ones who first created satay, 
thanks to the influence of the Arabs who immigrated to Java and brought their 
kebabs along with them.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus 1 hour to marinate
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
2 tablespoons chopped 
lemongrass or lime juice
1 tablespoon minced ginger
1 teaspoon cumin
1 teaspoon turmeric
3 tablespoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons chunky 
peanut butter
1 pound chicken tenders
2 tablespoons coconut oil, 
melted, or canola oil1. In a blender, combine the lemongrass, ginger, 
cumin, turmeric, fish sauce, sugar, and peanut 
butter and pulse together. Transfer to a zip-top 
bag, then add the chicken. Close the bag and 
squeeze to coat the chicken evenly. Marinate for 
1 hour or overnight.
2. Meanwhile, soak 10 to 12 skewers in water 
for 1 hour.
3. Thread the marinated chicken on the skewers, 
and brush the skewered chicken on both sides 
with the oil. Place the skewers on a hot grill, 
and cook for 4 minutes on each side, or until 
the chicken juices run clear. Alternatively, broil 
the chicken for about 10 minutes. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  Make a peanut dipping sauce by 
mixing chunky peanut butter with coconut milk, fish 
sauce, honey, and sambal (an Indonesian chile paste) 
in a blender.30 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 30 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFILIPINO
Lumpia
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Lumpia are the Filipino take on egg rolls. Their wrappers are lighter than 
spring roll or egg roll wrappers, and they are longer and slenderer in shape 
than either of those appetizers. This makes for a light and crispy snack.
MAKES 12 pieces
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 cup canola oil, divided
3/4 pound ground pork
1/2 cup finely 
shredded carrots
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
12 lumpia or spring 
roll wrappers
2 eggs, whisked1. In a wok over high heat, pour in 1 teaspoon 
of canola oil. Add the pork, carrots, salt, 
sugar, sesame oil, and pepper and stir-fry for 
3 minutes. Remove from the heat and let the 
filling cool for 10 minutes.
2. Lay a wrapper on a work surface with a corner 
pointing toward you. Place 2 tablespoons of 
filling in the center. Fold the corner closest to 
you over the filling to cover. Fold the left and 
right corners over the filling, then roll up until 
the top corner is reached. Dab some of the egg 
on the top corner to seal.
3. Repeat this process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers.
4. Heat the remaining canola oil in a Dutch oven 
over high heat to 340°F . Use a deep-fry ther -
mometer to check the temperature.
5. Add the lumpia to the canola oil and deep-fry 
until golden brown, about 8 minutes. Transfer 
the lumpia to paper towels to drain, then serve.
SWAP IT:  For a fun twist, swap the pork filling for 
cheese sticks. Roll the wrappers around cheese sticks, 
freeze, and then fry over low to medium heat. This is 
called “lumpiang keso.”31 APPETIzERS 31 APPETIzERSVIETNAMESE
Saigon Shrimp Spring Rolls
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Spring rolls are called “goi cuô ´n” in Vietnamese. Stuffed with rice vermicelli, 
pork, beef, shrimp, or tofu, they provide a nice contrast to heavier appetizers, 
since they aren’t fried. You may see these called “summer rolls” or “salad 
rolls” on menus. This version uses fresh vegetables and fruit for an even 
healthier take.
MAKES 12 pieces
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
3 cups water
3 cups coleslaw mix
1 cup diced pineapple
1/4 cup apple cider vinegar
1/4 cup maple syrup
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon fish sauce
12 spring roll wrappers
12 medium prawns, shelled, 
boiled, and halved1. In a saucepot over high heat, bring the water 
to a boil.
2. In a bowl, mix together the coleslaw mix,  
pineapple, vinegar, maple syrup, salt, and 
fish sauce.
3. Dip one wrapper in the hot water for 1 second 
to soften. Place it flat on a cutting board. Add 
2 tablespoons of filling to the center, then top 
with two pieces of prawn. Fold the right side 
over the filling, then fold the left side over the 
filling. Fold the bottom over filling and continue 
to roll tightly until you reach the top of the 
wrapper to seal.
4. Repeat this process with the remaining filling 
and wrappers and serve.
SERVING TIP:  Serve spring rolls with a side of 
hoisin sauce for dipping and add herbs for more color 
and freshness.32 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 32 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKOREAN
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes
NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
These savory pancakes can be whipped up in 20 minutes. Serve them for 
breakfast, lunch, or dinner as a side or snack. The addition of kimchi gives an 
extra kick of flavor to the traditional Korean scallion pancake, pa jun .
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
11/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup rice flour
2 eggs, beaten
11/2 cups water
1/2 cup chopped 
store-bought kimchi
1 cup chopped scallions
1 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons canola oil1. In a large bowl, pour in the all-purpose flour, 
rice flour, eggs, water, kimchi, scallions, and 
salt and whisk together until a smooth batter 
forms. Let it sit for 5 minutes.
2. In a small nonstick sauté pan or skillet, pour in 
1 teaspoon of oil and heat on high. Pour 1/3 cup 
of batter into the skillet, reduce the heat to 
medium, and cook on each side for 3 minutes, 
or until golden brown. Transfer to a plate.
3. Repeat this process with the remaining 
3 teaspoons of oil and batter. Serve.
SWAP IT:  If rice flour is unavailable, use all-purpose 
flour, 2 cups total.
SERVING TIP:  Serve with a dipping sauce of soy 
sauce mixed with a few drops of sesame oil. Add chia 
seeds into the batter for a healthy, pretty twist.33 APPETIzERS 33 APPETIzERSMYANMARESE
Curry Potato Samosas
SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN
Samosas are called samusas  in Myanmar. However, the true origins of samosas 
are traced to Central Asia and the Middle East. Many styles emerged: baked 
or fried, spiced, nutty, and fruity. This version hails from Myanmar and can be 
made in a flash thanks to instant mashed potatoes.
MAKES 12 pieces
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
4 tablespoons butter
1 tablespoon turmeric
2 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon garlic powder
11/2 cups instant mashed 
potato flakes
2 sheets frozen puff 
pastry, thawed
2 egg yolks, beaten1. Preheat the oven to 400°F .
2. In a saucepan over high heat, melt the butter. 
Add the turmeric and cook for 10 seconds.
3. Whisk in the broth, salt, sugar, and garlic 
powder and bring to a boil.
4. Slowly whisk in the potato flakes. Let the 
potato absorb the broth and hydrate into a 
mashed potato consistency.
5. Unroll the puff pastry and let it sit out for 
2 minutes, then cut it into 2-inch squares.
6. Fill the center of each square with 1 tablespoon 
of potato filling. Dab egg yolk along 2 edges. 
Fold one corner to the opposite corner to form 
a triangle. Press out the air and seal.
7. Transfer the samosas to a baking sheet and 
bake for 10 minutes, or until golden brown.
SERVING TIP:  For a crispier take on samosas, use 
egg roll wrappers and deep-fry them.34 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 34 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Crab Rangoon
NUT-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   
TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Cream cheese became a staple between 1940 and 1950, which coincides 
with the growth of tiki culture. This dish may have been invented by Victor 
Bergeron, Jr., the founder of the famous Trader Vic’s tiki bars during the early 
1940s. Rangoon is actually a city in Myanmar (formerly known as Burma), 
now called Yangon. While the name is Myanmarese, the dish is Chinese  
American with tiki influence.
MAKES 16 pieces
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  6 minutes
6 ounces regular 
cream cheese, at 
room temperature
3 ounces canned, fresh, or 
imitation crabmeat
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon toasted 
sesame oil
16 square wonton wrappers
1/2 cup canola oil1. In a bowl, mix together the cream cheese, crab -
meat, salt, and sesame oil.
2. Place one wrapper on the palm of your hand. 
Add 1 teaspoon of filling to the center. Dip your 
finger in water and wet two edges of the wrap -
per. Fold the wrapper over to form a triangle. 
Press out the air, then press the edges to seal.
3. In a sauté pan or skillet, pour in the canola oil 
and heat on high. Reduce the heat to medium, 
add the rangoon, and cook on each side for 
2 minutes, or until golden brown.
4. Transfer to paper towels to drain, then serve.
SERVING TIP:  Serve crab rangoon with store-bought 
sweet and sour sauce or honey mustard. Make your 
own honey mustard by mixing equal parts yellow mus -
tard, honey, and mayo. Season with a touch of vinegar 
and salt.CHICKEN CHOW MEIN, PAGE 3937
THREE
Rice and  
Noodles
•
Chicken Chow Mein 39
Spicy Dandan Noodles 40
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup 41
Minced Beef over Rice 42
Hanoi Chicken Pho 43
Rice Noodles with 
Shrimp (Bún Cha ) 44
Crab Fried Rice 45
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao) 46Coconut Sticky Rice 47
Chicken Fat Rice 48
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen 49
Beef Bowl (Gyu ˉdon) 50
Japchae 51
Street Dog Bibimbap 52
Mie Goreng 53
Pad Thai with Tofu 5438 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKRice and noodles are staples of Asian cuisine. Almost every  
protein or vegetarian dish you find in this cookbook will be served 
with either rice or noodles. Unlike American cuisine, where the 
starch or carb component of a balanced meal can come in different 
forms—bread, pasta, grains, or even root vegetables—Asian cui -
sines typically use only rice or noodles. Every menu you see at Asian 
restaurants will have a whole rice and noodle section, and even if 
you don’t order from that section, the entrée you order will most 
certainly come with rice. In this chapter, we will cover a wide vari -
ety of rice and noodle favorites that have been brought over to the 
United States.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
The diets of Southern Asians and Northern Asians vary greatly due to 
differing climates. In Southern Asia, where it can be hot and humid, the 
diet is heavily based on rice and rice noodles. In Northern Asia, where 
it’s cold and dry, the diet is based on wheat products—mainly dumplings, 
noodles, steamed buns, stuffed buns, and breads. In Southern Asia, pop -
ular Vietnamese dishes include Hanoi Chicken Pho (page 43) and Rice 
Noodles with Shrimp (page 44), which are rice-based meals. Compare 
those to Spicy Dandan Noodles (page 40) and Chicken Chow Mein  
(page 39), which are wheat-based and hail from the northern parts 
of China.39 RICE AND NOODLES  39 RICE AND NOODLES  CHINESE
Chicken Chow Mein
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE PAN   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Every Chinese restaurant has this dish, regardless of what regional cuisine 
it features. And because of this, the quality and taste of chicken chow mein 
varies greatly. This version uses store-bought chicken, which makes it faster to 
prepare, more flavorful, and less oily.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
2 cups shredded  
store-bought 
rotisserie chicken
1 teaspoon minced ginger
1 cup shredded carrots
2 cups shredded cabbage
6 cups cooked soft chow 
mein noodles
4 cups baby spinach
1/4 cup soy sauce
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce
1 tablespoon 
balsamic vinegar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon water1. In a wok or cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat on high. Add the chicken, ginger, carrots, 
and cabbage and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
2. Add the noodles, spinach, soy sauce, hoisin 
sauce, and vinegar and stir-fry for 3 minutes.
3. Mix together the cornstarch and water to make 
a slurry. Add it to the wok and stir-fry for 
2 minutes. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Substitute the soft chow mein noodles with 
dried pasta, such as thick spaghetti or bucatini. Cook, 
drain, and coat it in a touch of oil.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  Buy shredded carrots and 
cabbage to save on prep time.40 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 40 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Spicy Dandan Noodles
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
The term dandan  refers to the poles that peddlers use to carry baskets of 
noodles on their shoulders to sell on the street. This dish originates from the 
Sichuan Province, which is known for its spices, thus the authentic version 
of dandan mein would be swimming in chile oil and mouth-numbing Sichuan 
peppercorns. The Americanized version is sweeter and may have peanut butter 
or sesame paste incorporated.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
6 cups water
16 ounces fresh linguine or 
dried egg pasta
2 tablespoons canola oil
8 ounces ground pork
2 tablespoons dried 
chile flakes
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup soy sauce
2 tablespoons chunky 
peanut butter
1 tablespoon black vinegar
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup chopped scallions1. In a stockpot, bring the water to a boil over high 
heat. Add the noodles and cook for 2 minutes, 
or until al dente. Reserve 1/4 cup of pasta water, 
then drain the noodles and set aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the pork, chile flakes, and salt and stir-fry 
for 3 minutes, breaking apart the pork with 
a spatula.
3. Add the soy sauce, peanut butter, vinegar, 
sugar, and reserved pasta water and stir-fry for 
4 minutes. Be sure to whisk with the spatula to 
fully incorporate the sauce and break down the 
peanut butter chunks.
4. Transfer the cooked noodles to serving bowls. 
Pour the pork sauce over the noodles. Garnish 
with the scallions and serve.
SERVING TIP:  For a more authentic take on this 
recipe, drizzle Sichuan peppercorn oil and chile oil 
into the sauce, then garnish with crushed peanuts and 
Chinese pickled mustard greens.41 RICE AND NOODLES  41 RICE AND NOODLES  CHINESE
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This dish is a staple breakfast item in Hong Kong’s cha chaan teng . These 
restaurants specialize in Hong Kong–style Western dishes, which can be 
attributed to Hong Kong’s long history of British influence. Here, locals  
partake in milk teas, cakes, toasts, spaghetti, macaroni, and more.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
5 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
2 cups dried macaroni
2 tablespoons canola oil
4 eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 can Spam, cut into 
4 pieces1. In a saucepot, bring the broth to a boil over 
high heat. Add the macaroni and cook for 
10 minutes, or until al dente.
2. Meanwhile, in a large nonstick sauté pan or 
skillet, pour in the oil and heat on medium. Add 
the eggs and cook, sunny-side up, for about 
5 minutes, or until the whites are set and the 
yolks are done to your liking. Sprinkle with the 
salt and set aside.
3. Ladle macaroni and broth into four bowls. Top 
each bowl with a piece of Spam (the soup will 
warm it) and an egg and serve.
SERVING TIP:  Add frozen peas and carrots to the 
soup for an Asian twist on chicken noodle soup.42 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 42 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Minced Beef over Rice
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This is a popular comfort food on Cantonese restaurant menus. To make lunch 
affordable and fast, rice plates with sautéed, braised, or steamed proteins and 
veggies became popular. This dish is extra tasty when reheated the next day, as 
the sauce and flavor of the beef gets absorbed into the rice.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 pound ground beef
1 cup frozen peas
2 tablespoons oyster sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons mirin or dry 
white wine
2 cups store-bought 
beef stock
1 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon water
4 egg yolks
6 cups Steamed Rice 
(page 19)1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the beef, peas, oyster sauce, soy sauce, 
mirin, stock, sugar, and pepper and stir-fry 
for 2 minutes, breaking the beef apart with 
a spatula.
2. Cover the wok and cook for another 5 minutes, 
stirring occasionally.
3. Mix together the cornstarch and water to make 
a slurry. Add it to the wok and stir-fry for 
1 minute.
4. Divide the rice among four bowls.
5. Add the beef mixture to the bowls, top with a 
yolk, and serve immediately. To eat, mix the 
yolk into the beef and rice, which will cook it 
and create a creamy, rich consistency.
SWAP IT:  If raw yolks are not desirable, use 
poached eggs.43 RICE AND NOODLES  43 RICE AND NOODLES  VIETNAMESE
Hanoi Chicken Pho
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This recipe was inspired by the famous pho ga at the Turtle Tower restaurant 
in San Francisco. With a few shortcuts, you can taste this amazing Hanoi-style 
pho in less than an hour.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  35 minutes
1 whole store-bought 
rotisserie chicken
4 quarts store-bought 
chicken stock
2 tablespoons 
coriander seeds
3 whole cloves
1 medium yellow 
onion, quartered
1 (3-inch) piece ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons fish sauce
2 teaspoons sugar
6 cups water
1 (14-ounce) package dried 
rice noodles
1 cup fresh cilantro leaves
1/2 cup chopped scallions
3 limes, cut into wedges1. Separate the chicken meat from the bone, then 
shred it into small pieces and set aside.
2. In a stockpot, combine the bones and stock 
and bring to a boil over high heat. Cook for 
15 minutes.
3. Meanwhile, combine the coriander and cloves 
in a small sauté pan or skillet over medium heat 
and toast for 4 minutes, stirring frequently to 
prevent burning. Set aside.
4. Add the toasted spices, onion, and ginger to the 
broth. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer 
for 15 minutes.
5. Strain out the solids, leaving the broth in the 
stockpot. Stir in the salt, fish sauce, and sugar.
6. In a separate saucepot, bring the water to a boil 
over high heat. Add the noodles and cook for 
45 seconds, or according to the package  
directions.
7. Transfer the noodles to serving bowls. Add 
broth and top with the shredded chicken, cilan -
tro, scallion, and lime. Serve.44 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 44 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Rice Noodles with 
Shrimp (Bún Chả)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Bún cha is a cold noodle salad topped with proteins—such as grilled pork, 
chicken, beef, shrimp, or tofu—and served with nước châ´m (a sweet chile  
dipping sauce), pickled veggies, and fresh herbs.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes,  
plus 1 hour to soak skewers
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
FOR THE SHRIMP AND 
NOODLES
24 medium shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons lime juice
4 cups water
3 cups soaked thin rice 
noodles (vermicelli)
1 cup fresh mint leaves
1 cup grated carrots
1 cup shredded lettuce
FOR THE NU ̛ỚC CHÂ´M
1 cup hot water
1/3 cup fish sauce
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon dried 
chile flakes1. Soak 4 long skewers in water for 1 hour.
2. To make the shrimp and noodles, season the 
shrimp with the salt, sugar, and lime juice. 
Thread 6 pieces on each skewer. Grill for 
2 minutes on each side. Set aside.
3. In a saucepot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Add the noodles and cook for 
45 seconds. Drain the noodles and rinse them 
under cold water.
4. Divide the noodles into 4 bowls. Top each 
with the mint, carrots, lettuce, and a skewer 
of shrimp.
5. To make the nước châ ´m, whisk together the 
water, fish sauce, sugar, garlic, and chile flakes 
in a bowl. Serve on the side as a dressing.
SWAP IT:  Swap out nu ̛ớc châ ´m for hoisin sauce, soy 
sauce, and sriracha.45 RICE AND NOODLES  45 RICE AND NOODLES  THAI
Crab Fried Rice
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Seafood is plentiful in Southeast Asia. Thai-style crab fried rice is a popular 
dish that has been imported into the United States with great success, as both 
crab and fried rice are well liked by Americans. Fried rice is always best when 
made with day-old rice.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
2 tablespoons canola 
oil, divided
2 eggs, whisked
3 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 cup chopped scallions
1 teaspoon minced ginger
1 Thai bird's eye 
chile, minced
3 cups leftover Steamed 
Rice (page 19)
3 teaspoons fish sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 (6-ounce) can 
lump crabmeat
1/2 teaspoon white pepper 
or black pepper
1 lime, quartered1. In a wok, pour in 1 tablespoon of oil and heat 
on high. Add the eggs and stir-fry for 1 minute. 
Remove the scrambled eggs from the wok and 
set aside.
2. Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil in 
the wok, still over high heat. Add the garlic, 
 scallions, ginger, and chile and stir-fry for 
1 minute.
3. Add the rice and stir-fry for 3 minutes, using 
the flat part of the spatula to press down on the 
rice and break apart clumps.
4. Add the fish sauce, soy sauce, crab, scrambled 
egg, and pepper and stir-fry for 2 minutes. 
 Garnish with the lime and serve.
SWAP IT:  If crab can’t be found, use shrimp.46 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 46 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Spicy and savory, drunken noodles are a top noodle dish at Thai restaurants in 
the United States. Legend has it that pad kee mao is called “drunken noodles” 
because one needs beer to help quench the thirst that comes after eating this 
famously spicy dish.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
4 quarts water
14 ounces dried wide 
rice noodles
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 pound chicken breast, 
thinly sliced
1 garlic clove, minced
1 cup sliced scallions
3 tablespoons fish sauce
1/4 cup oyster sauce
3 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon chile powder
1/2 cup fresh Thai 
basil leaves1. In a stockpot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Add the noodles and cook for about 
5 minutes until al dente, or according to pack -
age directions. Drain and set them aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the chicken and garlic and stir-fry for 
3 minutes.
3. Add the scallions, fish sauce, oyster sauce, soy 
sauce, sugar, and chile powder and stir-fry for 
2 minutes.
4. Add the noodles and Thai basil and stir-fry for 
2 minutes. Serve.
SERVING TIPS:  To achieve that beautiful dark 
caramel color of drunken noodles, use 2 teaspoons of 
dark soy sauce.47 RICE AND NOODLES  47 RICE AND NOODLES  THAI
Coconut Sticky Rice
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN  
 5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
You can’t have Thai food without sticky rice, whether it’s used to sop up spicy 
curries or serve with stir-fried dishes. Now you can make your own at home 
with the help of a rice cooker.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
1 cup sweet rice
1 cup jasmine rice
1 (13.5-ounce) can 
unsweetened, full-fat 
coconut milk
2 cups water
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup toasted coconut1. In a rice cooker, pour in the sweet rice, jasmine 
rice, coconut milk, water, and salt.
2. Stir and press cook “white rice.”
3. Once the rice is done, open the lid and fluff the 
rice with a fork. Cover for 5 minutes.
4. Garnish with the toasted coconut and serve.
SERVING TIP:  To add an extra boost of coconut 
flavor, cook the rice with shredded coconut and finish 
the rice with a spoonful of coconut oil.48 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 48 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKSINGAPOREAN
Chicken Fat Rice
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Chicken Fat Rice is traditionally made with chicken fat, chicken broth, and 
aromatics such as ginger, pandan leaf, and garlic. The rice not only smells 
incredible but also tastes amazing even when eaten on its own. To make it 
easier, butter is used here instead of chicken fat.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
1 pound chicken bones
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups jasmine rice
3 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
2 garlic cloves, minced
21/2 cups store-bought 
chicken stock
2 pandan leaves or 
bay leaves1. Coat the chicken bones with the salt.
2. Rinse the rice with water until the water runs 
clear, then set aside.
3. In a saucepot, melt the butter over high heat. 
Add the garlic and cook for 10 seconds. Add the 
rice and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute.
4. Add the stock, bones, and pandan leaves and 
bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low, cover, 
and simmer for 20 minutes.
5. Remove from the heat and let it sit for 
10 minutes. Remove and discard the chicken 
bones and pandan leaves and serve.
SWAP IT:  If you prefer a lighter, healthier substitute, 
you can try using coconut oil instead of butter.49 RICE AND NOODLES  49 RICE AND NOODLES  JAPANESE
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
In major cities, it seems like a new ramen shop opens every few months. 
Ramen shops usually feature a special house broth, such as tonkotsu (pork 
bone), shoyu (soy), or miso. This is a remixed version of shoyu ramen. Tradi -
tional shoyu takes time to make, but this shortcut method gives you the same 
taste in only 15 minutes.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
6 cups water
4 packages Maruchan beef 
ramen noodle soup
1 teaspoon sake (optional)
1 cup corn
4 eggs
12 thin slices cooked 
pork loin
1/2 cup finely 
chopped scallions
4 nori sheets (optional)1. In a stockpot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Add the noodles and their seasoning 
packs, sake (if using), and corn and crack the 
raw eggs into the pot to cook for 3 minutes.
2. Remove from the heat and divide the noodles, 
corn, and eggs equally into bowls, leaving the 
broth in the pot.
3. Add the pork loin and cook for 1 minute.
4. Top each bowl with the pork and pour broth  
over. Garnish with the scallions and nori  
(if using). Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap pork loin for roast beef to make beef 
ramen. Pickled ginger, dried chile flakes, and bean 
sprouts are also great additions.50 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 50 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
The word gyu ˉdon  means “beef bowl” in Japanese, and it became wildly popu -
lar thanks to Yoshinoya, a large beef-bowl fast-food chain. The dish originated 
from gyunabe and sukiyaki, in which beef slices are cooked in a pot with 
sukiyaki sauce and vegetables. The Japanese then started serving it over rice, 
creating the beef rice bowl.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 pounds shaved beef steak
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
2 teaspoons cornstarch
4 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons mirin or dry 
white wine
41/2 teaspoons 
sugar, divided
3 tablespoons canola oil
1 small yellow onion, 
thinly sliced
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons hoisin sauce
6 cups Steamed Rice 
(page 19)1. In a bowl, combine the beef, sesame oil, corn -
starch, soy sauce, mirin, and 4 teaspoons of 
sugar and marinate for 5 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, heat the canola oil in a wok 
over medium heat. Add the onion, salt, and 
remaining 1/2 teaspoon of sugar and stir-fry for 
3 minutes.
3. Add the beef to the wok and stir-fry for 
6 minutes, or until fully cooked. Remove from 
the heat, add the hoisin sauce, and stir. Serve 
over the rice.
SERVING TIPS:  Add store-bought Kizami beni 
shōga , pickled ginger slices, to the dish for a nice spicy 
citrus burst.51 RICE AND NOODLES  51 RICE AND NOODLES  KOREAN
Japchae
NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Have fun with japchae and experiment with different veggies such as cabbage, 
carrots, celery, zucchini, and various colored peppers. Since this noodle has a 
chewy al dente texture, it holds well even as leftovers, whether you microwave 
it or eat it cold.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
6 cups water
8 ounces sweet 
potato starch 
noodles (dangmyeon)
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 cup sliced 
shiitake mushrooms
1 small red bell pepper, 
thinly sliced
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon white pepper
1/4 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup ponzu
2 tablespoons sugar
2 cups baby spinach
3 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil1. In a stockpot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Add the noodles and cook for about 
6 minutes, or according to the package direc -
tions. Drain the noodles and rinse under cold 
water. Cut the noodles with scissors to 6 inches 
in length.
2. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat on 
high. Add the mushrooms and bell pepper and 
stir-fry for 3 minutes.
3. Reduce the heat to medium. Add the noodles,  
salt, pepper, soy sauce, ponzu, sugar, spinach, 
and sesame oil and stir-fry for 5 minutes. Serve.
SWAP IT:  If you can’t find dangmyeon, use glass  
noodles (aka cellophane noodles), which are similar 
and can be found in your grocery’s international aisle.  
If you can’t find ponzu, use soy sauce and lemon or lime 
juice and the zest.52 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 52 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKOREAN
Street Dog Bibimbap
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
In Los Angeles in particular, Korean American chefs have developed all sorts 
of Korean American fusion dishes, from adding kimchi to hot dogs and tacos 
to throwing cheese on Korean stews. Bibimbap, which literally means “mixed 
rice,” incorporates seasoned veggies, pickles, proteins, and more. This version 
is an ode to the Korean fusion movement.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
6 cups Steamed Rice 
(page 19)
3 tablespoons canola 
oil, divided
1 cup julienned carrots
4 hot dogs, cut into 
thick slices
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
3 cups spinach
4 eggs
1/2 cup store-bought kimchi
Gochujang, for serving1. Cook the steamed rice using the stovetop or rice 
cooker method.
2. In a wok, pour in 1 tablespoon of oil and heat 
on high. Add the carrots, hot dogs, salt, and 
sugar and stir-fry for 3 minutes. Add the spin -
ach and stir-fry for 2 minutes, until wilted.
3. Divide the rice among 4 bowls and add the 
 vegetable mix on top.
4. In the empty wok, heat the remaining 
2 tablespoons of oil. Add the eggs and cook, 
sunny-side up, for about 5 minutes, or until 
the whites are set and the yolk is done to 
your liking.
5. Top each bowl with an egg and garnish with 
the kimchi.
6. Drizzle with the gochujang and serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap out hot dogs for kielbasa or Polish 
sausages if you like it spicier. Or try bulk sausage, 
 sautéing it before adding it to the rice.53 RICE AND NOODLES  53 RICE AND NOODLES  INDONESIAN
Mie Goreng
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Each Asian cuisine has its own version of stir-fried noodles. The Chinese have 
chow mein, the Japanese have yakisoba, and the Indonesians have mie goreng. 
The flavors of Indonesian fried noodles are sweeter and spicier than its Asian 
counterparts, with high usage of ketchup and palm sugar.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 tablespoons canola oil
3 eggs, whisked
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons sambal
4 cups cooked chow 
mein noodles
2 whole tomatoes, sliced
4 tablespoons ketchup
1 tablespoon dark or regular 
soy sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
1 lime, quartered1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the eggs, garlic, and sambal and stir-fry for 
1 minute.
2. Add the noodles, tomatoes, ketchup, soy sauce, 
and sugar and stir-fry for 5 minutes, or until 
the noodles absorb the sauce and are fragrant.
3. Divide the noodles among plates and serve with 
a wedge of lime for squeezing.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Sambal is an Indonesian chile 
paste made with shrimp paste, garlic, ginger, shallots, 
sugar, and lime juice. Find it in the Asian section of the 
grocery store or online.
SWAP IT:  Swap sambal for red curry paste, which 
has similar flavors. Add extra sugar and a touch of fish 
sauce to balance the flavors out.54 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 54 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKTHAI
Pad Thai with Tofu
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Pad Thai was created in the 1930s by the prime minister of Thailand to evoke 
a greater sense of Thai nationalism and pride. This sweet, tangy, and slightly 
spicy stir-fried rice noodle dish is the gateway to Thai cuisine in America, not 
to mention listed on a CNN list of the world’s 50 best foods to eat.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  30 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
8 ounces dry pad Thai 
rice noodles
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 (9-ounce) package 
braised firm tofu, cut 
into chunks
2 eggs
4 tablespoons fish sauce
4 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon ketchup
2 tablespoons rice wine 
vinegar or lime juice
1 tablespoon sriracha
5 ounces bean sprouts
1/4 cup crushed 
roasted peanuts1. In a large bowl, soak the noodles in lukewarm 
water for 30 minutes, then drain.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the soaked noodles and tofu and stir-fry for 
2 minutes.
3. Move the noodles and tofu to one side of 
the wok and add the eggs, scrambling for 
30 seconds. Add the fish sauce, sugar, ketchup, 
vinegar, and sriracha and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
4. Add half of the bean sprouts and peanuts and 
stir-fry for 2 more minutes.
5. Garnish with the rest of the nuts and bean 
sprouts and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Buy whole dry-roasted peanuts 
and crush them on a cutting board, using the back of a 
pan to push down on the nuts. Add shrimp or chicken to 
the pad Thai to make it heartier.THAI COCONUT SOUP (TOM KHA GAI), PAGE 6757
FOUR
Soups, Stews, 
and Curries
•
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Hua– Ta–ng) 59
Chicken Corn Soup 60
Wonton Soup 61
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang) 62
Kimchi Army Stew 
(Budae Jjigae) 63
Sinigang 64
Chicken Kare Kare 65
Myanmarese Fish 
Chowder (Mohinga) 66Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai) 67
Massaman Beef Curry 68
Miso Soup 69
Chicken Katsu Curry 70
Cambodian Pork Curry 71
Vietnamese Beef 
Stew (Bò Kho) 72
Malaysian Lamb  
Rendang 73
Laksa Soup 7458 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKThough cuisines can differ greatly in the various regions of  
each Asian country, one thing is true: Variations of soups, stews, and 
curries have become an important part of day-to-day diets. In many 
instances, they serve a purpose. In Korea, soups such as galbitang 
are eaten to fight off the freezing temperatures. In Southeast Asian 
countries, where the climate is hotter, various spices are used to make 
spicy soups such as laksa in m alaysia, which promotes sweating that 
helps cool down the body. In this chapter, you will learn how to make 
signature curry, stew, and soup dishes.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Did you know that the British traders in the 19th century made curry 
popular in China, Thailand, Japan, and other Asian countries? The 
Portuguese were the first to bring back spices such as black pepper, 
cardamom, and cloves, a valuable trade commodity. Lacking a word 
to describe these spices used to create thickened delicious stews, they 
invented their own and called it carel , taken from kari, a word that 
means “sauce laced with spices” in Tamil, a language spoken in India. 
The British East India Company took over the spice trade from the 
Portuguese and pronounced the word carel  as “curry.” The British man -
ufactured curry powder mix in India and spread it throughout Asia via 
trade. While countries in Asia, such as Thailand, have their own curries, 
they also adopted the Western yellow curry powder version. Popular 
curry dishes such as Massaman Beef Curry (page 68) fused new spices 
with Thai ingredients. The Japanese took the mix and cooked it with fruit 
and vegetables to make savory-sweet stews and sauces, all to be enjoyed 
over rice.59 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 59 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESCHINESE
Egg Flower Soup (Dàn Huā Tāng)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The name of this dish comes from the fact that the egg spreads out like a 
flower when it’s poured into hot broth and cooks into beautiful ribbons. The 
Americanized version uses cornstarch to thicken the soup. The traditional 
version is not thickened.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  2 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
4 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
3 eggs, whisked
Salt
2 teaspoons toasted 
sesame oil
1/4 cup minced scallions1. In a stockpot, bring the broth to a boil over 
high heat.
2. In a circular motion, slowly pour the eggs into 
the broth, stirring until the resulting ribbons 
are distributed evenly. Let it boil for 1 minute. 
Taste and season with salt as needed.
3. Pour the soup into bowls. Drizzle each with the 
oil, garnish with the scallions, and serve.
SERVING TIPS:  Be creative by adding veggies such 
as corn, sliced mushrooms, frozen chopped spinach, 
kale, or diced soft tofu.60 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 60 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Chicken Corn Soup
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
This dish is a delicious combination of two things we love: sweet creamed corn 
soup and savory egg flower soup simmered with chicken. Chinese immigrants 
took a very American dish and fused it with Chinese flavors, turning it into a 
quintessential Chinese American comfort food served across the United States.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
5 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
1 cup ground chicken breast
1 (15-ounce) can creamed 
sweet corn
1 (15-ounce) can corn
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 egg, whisked
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon water1. In a stockpot, bring the broth to a boil over 
high heat.
2. Add the chicken and whisk to break it apart, 
then boil for 3 minutes.
3. Add the creamed corn and corn and boil for 
2 minutes. Add the salt.
4. In a circular motion, slowly pour the egg into 
the broth, stirring until the resulting ribbons 
are distributed evenly.
5. Mix together the cornstarch and water to make 
a slurry. Add it to the soup and stir vigorously 
for 1 minute, until thickened. Serve.
SWAP IT:  For a vegetarian-friendly version, omit the 
chicken and swap out chicken broth for vegetable broth.61 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 61 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESCHINESE
Wonton Soup
NUT-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY  
TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The history of wontons is long and the varieties available in China alone are 
vast. One could dedicate an entire book to the subject. This version combines  
Cantonese, Shanghainese, and Western influences. The skin is thin like 
 Cantonese wontons, the filling is Western, and the broth is Shanghainese.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
5 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
4 thin slices ginger
20 uncooked pork wontons 
(see Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, page 25)
White pepper or freshly 
ground black pepper
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1/2 cup cilantro leaves1. In a stockpot, bring the broth to a boil over high 
heat. Add the ginger and wontons and cook 
until they float, about 5 minutes.
2. Season to taste with pepper and stir in the 
soy sauce.
3. Ladle the broth and wontons into bowls. Gar -
nish with the cilantro and serve.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  To make wonton soup even 
faster, use store-bought frozen wontons or dumplings 
instead of wrapping your own.62 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 62 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKOREAN
Korean Short Rib 
Soup (Galbitang)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  ONE POT
Galbitang is the perfect comfort meal during the winter, and it can be enjoyed 
in different ways: Add rice to make a porridge, add noodles to make noodle 
soup, or serve alongside a bowl of rice and some kimchi.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  30 minutes
COOK TIME:  4 hours
6 pounds Korean-style 
short ribs
4 thick slices ginger
1 large radish, peeled 
and cut into 
1-inch-thick slices
1 large yellow 
onion, quartered
1 tablespoon salt
1 tablespoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1/2 cup chopped scallions1. In a stockpot, place the ribs and pour in 
enough water to cover the ribs by 11/2 inches. 
Soak for 30 minutes to purge impurities and 
blood. Strain and rinse the ribs, then scrub the 
pot clean.
2. Place the ribs back into the pot, add fresh water 
to cover, and bring to a boil over high heat. Boil 
for 2 minutes, then discard the water and rinse 
the ribs again.
3. Place the ribs back into the pot and add the 
ginger. Add fresh water to cover by 11/2 inches. 
Bring to a boil over high heat, then reduce the 
heat to medium-low and simmer, covered, for 
3 hours.
4. Add the radish and onion and simmer for 
1 more hour.
5. Season with the salt and pepper, garnish with 
the scallions, and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Korean-style short ribs are cut 
across the bone into thin strips. The cut is available at 
most Asian groceries, or ask your butcher to cut the ribs 
“flanken style” to order.63 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 63 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESKOREAN
Kimchi Army Stew  
(Budae Jjigae)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
This dish is something you can throw together in a pinch. Korean army stew 
was created after the Korean War ended. As food became scarce, Koreans used 
the surplus processed meats left by the Americans to cook with, which intro -
duced Western processed meats to Korean American cuisine.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 cups store-bought kimchi
6 cups store-bought 
beef broth
3 hot dogs, sliced
1 can Spam, sliced
1/2 cup chopped scallions
1 large carrot, thinly sliced
1 tablespoon gochujang
1 tablespoon Korean chile 
powder (gochugaru)
2 (3-ounce) packages  
Maruchan dried 
ramen noodles1. In a Dutch oven, combine the kimchi, broth, hot 
dogs, Spam, scallions, carrot, gochujang, and 
chile powder over high heat and bring to a boil. 
Cook for 5 minutes.
2. Add the ramen noodles and cook for 3 minutes, 
or until the noodles are tender, and serve.
TIPS:  Add tofu or other veggies to make the stew 
heartier. A slice of processed cheddar cheese such as 
Kraft Singles can be added on top to create a cheesy, 
rich consistency to the stew.64 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 64 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFILIPINO
Sinigang
NUT-FREE   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Sinigang is a very popular dish for Filipino families. It’s prepared on special 
occasions such as birthdays and when people are feeling under the weather. 
This sour-and-savory stew is filling yet light and flavorful at the same time, 
which explains why it’s a household favorite.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  1 hour
1 tablespoon canola oil
2 pounds pork belly, cut 
into 1-inch-thick slices
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1 medium yellow 
onion, quartered
2 medium 
tomatoes, quartered
6 cups store-bought 
beef broth
8 okra pods
1 tablespoon 
tamarind paste
Salt1. In a stockpot, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the pork, fish sauce, and onion and stir-fry 
for 3 minutes.
2. Add the tomatoes and broth and bring to a 
boil. Boil for 2 minutes, then reduce the heat to 
medium and simmer, covered, for 45 minutes.
3. Add the okra and tamarind paste. Increase the 
heat to high and bring back to a boil. Cook for 
5 minutes, or until the okra are tender.
4. Taste and season with salt as needed. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Sinigang is flexible. Swap the pork belly 
with pork ribs, beef, chicken, or seafood. Swap 
okra with eggplant, green beans, potato, taro, or 
spinach—whatever is available and in season.65 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 65 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESFILIPINO
Chicken Kare Kare
GLUTEN-FREE   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Traditionally, kare kare uses eggplant, long beans, and bok choy. This simplified 
version uses only bok choy, which brings down prep time but still tastes great. 
Annatto imparts the traditional orange hue to the stew, but it’s optional as it 
doesn’t add much distinctive flavor.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  45 minutes
3 tablespoons canola oil
2 pounds boneless chicken 
thighs, cubed
3 garlic cloves, chopped
1 tablespoon fish sauce
3 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
2 cups coarsely chopped 
bok choy
1/2 cup peanut 
butter (sweetened)
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon water
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon annatto 
powder (optional)1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the chicken, garlic, and fish sauce and 
stir-fry for 3 minutes.
2. Add the broth and bring to a boil. Reduce 
the heat to low and simmer, covered, for 
30 minutes.
3. Add the bok choy and peanut butter, stirring 
until smooth. Cook for 5 minutes, or until the 
boy choy is tender.
4. Mix together the cornstarch and water to make 
a slurry. Add it to the stew and stir vigorously 
for 1 minute to thicken. Season with the salt.
5. Whisk together the annatto powder (if using) 
with a bit of hot water. Add it to the stew and 
cook for 2 minutes. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap bok choy for kale.66 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 66 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKMYANMARESE
Myanmarese Fish 
Chowder (Mohinga)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This Southern Myanmarese chowder is recognized by many as a national dish. 
It’s usually eaten as breakfast and can be topped with split pea crackers, rice 
noodles, eggs, broad bean fritters, onions, cilantro, and lime wedges. Tradi -
tionally, toasted rice powder is used to thicken the soup. To make this dish 
more approachable, the ingredients have been pared down, but the flavors and 
textures have not.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 teaspoon turmeric
3 shallots, peeled 
and quartered
3 large slices ginger
4 cups store-bought 
vegetable broth
6 catfish fillets, cut into 
2-inch chunks
4 bay leaves
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1/2 teaspoon chile powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup lentil chips
3 lemongrass stalks, peeled 
and smashed1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the turmeric, shallots, and ginger and 
stir-fry for 2 minutes.
2. Add the broth and bring to a boil. Reduce 
the heat to medium. Add the fish, bay leaves, 
fish sauce, and chile powder and simmer for 
8 minutes, or until the fish is cooked through.
3. Season with the salt. Stir vigorously to break 
apart the fish.
4. Divide the soup among bowls. Garnish with the 
lentil chips and lemongrass and serve.
SWAP IT:  Lemongrass is traditionally used in 
this soup, but swap with the juice of 1 lime and its 
zest instead.67 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 67 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESTHAI
Thai Coconut Soup (Tom Kha Gai)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The phrase tom kha gai  translates to “chicken galangal soup.” Galangal looks 
like ginger, but the flavor is more citrusy and piney. The flesh is harder and 
cannot be grated, so it must be sliced. Ginger is a fine substitute, though. The 
flavors in this soup hit all the notes you would expect in Thai food: sweet, spicy, 
and sour.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  12 minutes
1 teaspoon coconut oil
1 medium shallot, 
thinly sliced
4 cups full-fat coconut milk
2 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
4 thin slices galangal 
or ginger
6 makrut lime leaves
4 chicken tenders, 
thinly sliced
1 cup thinly sliced white 
button mushrooms
1 stalk 
lemongrass, smashed
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 cup chopped 
fresh cilantro1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the shallot and stir-fry for 1 minute.
2. Add the coconut milk and broth and bring 
to a boil.
3. Reduce the heat to medium, add the galangal, 
lime leaves, chicken, mushrooms, lemongrass,  
fish sauce, salt, and sugar and simmer for  
10 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked  
through.
4. Divide among serving bowls, garnish with the 
cilantro, and serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap the makrut lime leaves for a regular 
lime’s zest and juice. Swap fresh lemongrass with a 
dehydrated or paste version.68 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 68 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKTHAI
Massaman Beef Curry
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  ONE POT
Massaman curry, or “curry of the Muslim,” was a popular dish among the 
Muslim community in Siam. The Arabian version used raisins, peanuts, and 
almonds. The Thai version uses tamarind, lemongrass, and shrimp paste. Simply 
throw everything in one pot and let it do its magic.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  2 hours
11/2 pounds boneless beef 
short ribs, cut into 
2-inch chunks
21/2 cups store-bought 
beef stock
3 cloves
5 cardamom seeds
2 tablespoons 
tamarind paste
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons Thai red 
curry paste
2 tablespoons fish sauce
2 russet potatoes, peeled 
and quartered
4 shallots, peeled
Salt1. In a stockpot over high heat, combine the beef, 
stock, cloves, cardamom, and tamarind. Bring 
to a boil, then reduce the heat to medium and 
simmer, covered, for 11/2 hours.
2. Remove the beef and strain out the spices, but 
keep the broth in the pot.
3. Whisk in the coconut milk, sugar, curry paste, 
and fish sauce and bring to a boil. Add the beef, 
potatoes, and shallots and simmer, uncovered 
and still over medium heat, for 30 minutes, or 
until the vegetables are tender.
4. Taste and season with salt as needed. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Add raisins or pineapple to make 
a sweeter curry.69 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 69 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESJAPANESE
Miso Soup
NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY  
ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Miso soup is the most popular soup in Japanese cuisine. It comes with set 
meals or sometimes for free before you begin a meal. In Japan, miso soup can 
be an art form, as chefs experiment with versions made with clams, mush -
rooms, or even pork fat. This version is an ode to the classic miso soup that 
Americans have grown to love.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
4 cups water
1/4 cup dried 
wakame (seaweed)
2 tablespoons red or 
white miso
8 ounces soft tofu, cut into 
1/2-inch dice
1/4 cup sliced scallions1. In a stockpot, combine the water and wakame 
and bring to a boil over high heat.
2. Whisk in the miso. Add the tofu and boil for 
2 minutes.
3. Divide the soup among bowls, garnish with the 
scallions, and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  For a richer miso taste, add dashi 
powder or bonito flakes. Dashi is a stock base made 
from kombu and usually fermented fish. It adds umami 
to broths and sauces.70 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 70 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Chicken Katsu Curry
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The word katsu  means “cutlet,” and this dish marries two things Americans 
love: fried chicken and curry. Instead of soft cubes of chicken, this one uses 
crispy chicken with panko, Japanese bread crumbs. Food trucks dedicated to 
making katsu curry can now be found in major cities in America.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
4 chicken breast 
cutlets, pounded
Salt
4 cubes S&B Golden 
Curry Sauce
3 cups water
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
3 eggs, whisked
11/2 cups panko 
bread crumbs
Canola oil, for frying1. Season the chicken all over with salt and set 
aside while you start the curry.
2. In a saucepan, put in the curry cubes and heat 
on high. Slowly whisk in the water until incor -
porated and a thick sauce forms. Reduce the 
heat to medium and cook, stirring constantly, 
for 2 minutes. Remove from the heat.
3. Put the flour, egg, and panko in 3 separate 
bowls. Dredge the chicken first in the flour, 
then dip it in the egg, and lastly coat it in 
panko. Set aside.
4. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in 1/4 inch of 
oil and heat on high. Add the chicken and 
shallow-fry for 3 minutes on each side, or until 
golden brown and cooked through.
5. Transfer the chicken to plates and drizzle the 
curry sauce on top. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  Serve this curry with rice, pickles, and 
shaved cabbage for a full traditional Japanese meal.71 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 71 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESCAMBODIAN
Cambodian Pork Curry
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
Cambodian curries are less spicy and sweet than Thai curries. Cambodian 
flavors tend to have a tangy twist due to the use of pickled vegetables. Unlike 
most Southeast Asian curries, which incorporate some sugar to balance out 
salty or tart flavors, this curry does not. To get a more authentic flavor, add 
lime zest and juice at the end.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
6 shallots, minced
1 red bell pepper, chopped
2 tablespoons yellow 
curry paste
1/2 cup pineapple chunks
1 tablespoon 
tamarind paste
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
11/2 pounds pork tenderloin, 
thinly sliced
Salt1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the shallots, bell pepper, curry paste, and pine -
apple and stir-fry for 3 minutes.
2. Stir in the tamarind paste and coconut milk and 
bring to a boil. Cook for 5 minutes.
3. Add the pork tenderloin, reduce the heat to 
medium, and simmer for 5 minutes, or until 
cooked through.
4. Taste and season with salt as needed. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  To make this spicy, add fresh 
Thai bird's eye chiles to it.72 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 72 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Vietnamese Beef Stew (Bò Kho)
NUT-FREE   •  ONE POT
This hearty, flavorful tomato-based stew can be paired with rice noodles, egg 
noodles, or a baguette. Serve this version with baguettes and allow your guests 
to dip the bread into the rich broth for a delicious bite.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  1 hour
2 stalks lemongrass
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 medium yellow 
onion, sliced
3 pounds boneless beef 
short ribs, cut into 
2-inch chunks
4 tablespoons tomato paste
2 star anise
8 cups store-bought 
beef broth
2 cups coconut water
1 tablespoon paprika
2 large carrots, cut into 
2-inch-thick slices
3 tablespoons soy sauce
3 tablespoons chile oil1. Remove and discard the tough, woody part of 
the lemongrass, then mince the tender parts.
2. In a Dutch oven, pour in the canola oil and heat 
on high. Add the lemongrass and stir-fry for a 
few seconds to release its fragrance. Add the 
onion and beef and stir-fry for 3 minutes.
3. Add the tomato paste, star anise, broth, coco -
nut water, paprika, and carrots and bring to 
a boil. Reduce the heat to medium-low and 
simmer, covered, for 1 hour, until everything 
is tender.
4. Stir in the soy sauce and chile oil and serve.
SERVING TIP:  To achieve the bright red color typical 
of this stew, add annatto powder soaked in water. Serve 
this dish with traditional toppings, such as sliced raw 
white onions, Thai basil, and lime wedges.73 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIES 73 SOUPS, S TEWS, AND CURRIESMALAYSIAN
Malaysian Lamb Rendang
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Rendang is an iconic dish for Malaysia, prepared with beef or lamb. It is not 
to be confused with curries because it has far less liquid and the flavors are 
more concentrated. Candlenuts are traditionally used to prepare rendang but 
because they’re hard to find, macadamia nuts can be used instead.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  21/2 hours
6 candlenuts or 
macadamia nuts
1 tablespoon 
coriander seeds
1 teaspoon turmeric
6 garlic cloves
3 stalks 
lemongrass, minced
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 pounds leg of 
lamb, butterflied1. Preheat the oven to 325°F .
2. In a food processor, put the candlenuts, corian -
der, turmeric, garlic, lemongrass, and coconut 
milk. Blend until smooth. Season with the salt 
and pepper.
3. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the lamb and sear on each side for 
5 minutes. Pour the marinade over the lamb. 
Boil for 1 minute.
4. Remove from the heat, cover the pot with foil, 
and place in the oven. Roast for 2 hours, or 
until the lamb is fork-tender and the liquid 
has evaporated.
5. Remove from the oven and let rest for 
10 minutes before slicing.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  To cut cooking time, use lamb 
chops. Use the same method, except sear on both sides 
on high for 2 minutes and then bake at 400°F for only 
10 minutes. Let it rest before serving.74 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 74 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKMALAYSIAN
Laksa Soup
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Laksa is traditionally served with wheat noodles or vermicelli noodles and can 
come with a variety of toppings, such as fish balls, chicken, tofu puffs, bean 
sprouts, and fresh herbs. Laksa is found in Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia 
but can vary in style. Regardless of what type, laksa is a pungent soup that will 
awaken your taste buds.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  12 minutes
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 (7-ounce) jar laksa paste
6 cups store-bought 
chicken broth
4 makrut lime leaves or 
zest and juice of 2 limes
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon brown sugar
12 large prawns, shell on
8 clams
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
1/2 tablespoon fish sauce
1/2 cup fresh cilantro leaves1. In a stockpot, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the laksa paste and stir-fry for 1 minute.
2. Stir in the broth, lime leaves, salt, and sugar 
and boil for 3 minutes. Add the prawns and 
clams and boil for 5 minutes.
3. Reduce the heat to medium. Add the coconut 
milk and simmer for 2 minutes. Remove from 
the heat and stir in the fish sauce.
4. Garnish with the cilantro and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Find laksa paste in the interna -
tional aisle or online. I recommend the Por Kwan brand 
as the best. Add turmeric powder or tamarind to make 
different versions of laksa.CARAMELIZED BRUSSELS SPROUTS, PAGE 9077FIVE
Vegetables 
and Tofu
•
Cold Tofu with Scallions 79
Sesame Spinach (Gomae) 80
Salt and Pepper Edamame 81
Garlic Bok Choy 82
Firecracker Corn 83
Cumin-Spiced Potato 84
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms 85
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu 86
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry 87
Sesame Bean Sprouts 88Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua) 89
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts 90
Green Bean Omelet 91
Eggplant with 
Green Curry 92
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum) 93
Okra and Eggs 94
Crispy Tofu with 
Peanut Sauce 95
Red Lentil Curry 
(Parippu) 9678 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKThe preparation of vegetables and tofu tends to get a lot of  
attention and care in Asian countries, especially in China. Based on 
the vegetable, different seasonings are used to help bring the natural 
flavor of the ingredient to the forefront. There is also an abundance 
of tofu products in Asia, many of which we have never even heard 
of here in the United States. Tofu—soy milk that has been coagu -
lated and pressed into blocks—has been eaten in China for more 
than 2,000 years. This chapter will introduce you to Asian vegetable 
cooking. We will teach you to prepare medium-firm tofu and silken 
tofu and help you master different ways to cook Western and Asian 
vegetable varieties that are becoming popular in the produce section 
of average groceries. Now you can tackle vegetables with a whole 
arsenal of new spices and seasonings that will make vegetable and 
tofu dishes the highlight of your meal.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Vegetables are an integral part of the Asian diet. It is said that Asians 
eat twice as many vegetables as their Western counterparts. What we 
like to call the “farm-to-table trend,” eating only seasonal ingredients, 
is everyday life in Asia. Rather than the occasional farmers’ market, 
most Asian countries have wet markets, which are open every single day 
and offer seasonal vegetables, herbs, fruits, seafood, and even livestock. 
With so many fresh vegetables on hand, it’s no wonder that canned or 
frozen vegetables are not used in traditional Asian cooking. When Asians 
immigrated to the United States, they started using canned or frozen 
vegetables and fruits, since they had limited access to fresh vegetables in 
general, let alone the regional ingredients of their homeland. That’s how 
Western vegetables, such as broccoli, green beans, corn, potatoes, toma -
toes, carrots, and celery, made their way into Asian American dishes.79 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 79 VEGETABLES AND T OfUJAPANESE
Cold Tofu with Scallions
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
Tofu was originally introduced in Japan by Buddhist monks from China in the 
late 8th century. Since most Buddhist monks were vegetarian, tofu was an 
important source of protein. A book on preparing tofu 100 ways was found 
dating back to the Edo Period (1600). Tofu in Japanese American cuisine is 
most commonly served fried in miso soup or ramen, or cold in a salad. This 
recipe is an incredibly easy way to prepare cold tofu salad using some tradi -
tional Zen elements of Japanese cuisine.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
1 (16-ounce) pack soft tofu
1/2 cup minced scallions
1/4 cup ponzu
3 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil1. In a shallow bowl, place the block of tofu by 
flipping the pack upside down into the bowl.
2. Using a knife, slice the tofu vertically, start -
ing from one end and working your way to 
the other, keeping a 1/2-inch distance from 
each slice.
3. Top the tofu with the scallions, drizzle with the 
ponzu and oil, and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Ponzu is a citrus-based soy 
sauce made from mirin, dried tuna, seaweed, and yuzu. 
It tastes a bit like soy sauce, but it’s milder and has 
hints of citrus and more umami. Swap with soy sauce 
and lemon or lime juice and the zest.80 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 80 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Sesame Spinach (Gomae)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   
5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This is a cold spinach salad tossed with a rich sesame dressing. This version 
has a fun visual twist. Instead of mixing spinach with dressing and serving it in 
a bowl, the spinach is formed into tiny little balls. They sit in a pool of dressing, 
looking like round green bushes sitting in sand. Allow guests to serve them -
selves and drizzle the sauce on their spinach.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
9 cups spinach with stems 
(about 3 bunches)
1/2 cup roasted sesame 
dressing, such as Kewpie
1/4 cup sesame seeds1. Make an ice bath by filling a large bowl with ice 
and water. Bring a stockpot of water to a boil 
over high heat.
2. Cut the spinach bunches in half crosswise,  
separating the leaves from the stems. Discard  
the stems and wash the leaves thoroughly.
3. Transfer the spinach to the stockpot and boil 
for 30 seconds. Plunge the spinach immedi -
ately into the ice bath. Drain and squeeze the 
spinach dry.
4. Pour the dressing into a shallow bowl. Using 
your hands, form the spinach into golf ball–size 
balls, place them on top of the dressing, and 
garnish the spinach with sesame seeds. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Buy fully grown spinach with 
stems, as it provides better texture than baby spinach 
when blanched. Roasted sesame dressing is available at 
most grocery stores; it’s great to have around for salads 
and cold sesame noodles.81 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 81 VEGETABLES AND T OfUJAPANESE
Salt and Pepper Edamame
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Thanks to Japanese American cuisine, edamame has become one of the most 
commonly ordered appetizers at Asian restaurants. It’s a simple, healthy dish 
that Americans love to nosh on before beginning their meal. It’s great with 
beer, sake, or cocktails and easy to eat. Now you can make your own, as frozen 
edamame in shells are readily available at grocery stores.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  2 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
3 teaspoons sea salt or 
kosher salt, divided
1 (12-ounce) bag 
frozen edamame
2 teaspoons freshly ground 
black pepper1. Bring a stockpot of water to a boil over high 
heat. Add 1 teaspoon of salt and the edamame. 
Cook for 5 minutes, or until tender.
2. Drain the edamame and transfer to a bowl. 
Season with the remaining 2 teaspoons of salt 
and the pepper. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  Edamame is also great cold. Run it 
under cold water after boiling. Place it in the refrigera -
tor until you need it. Season with salt and pepper right 
before serving. You can also toss the hot version with 
butter and honey for a tasty twist.82 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 82 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Garlic Bok Choy
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   
5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
Bok choy is a Chinese cabbage that has become extremely popular in Chinese 
American cuisine. It’s the most popular Chinese vegetable that Americans 
know of, with maybe Chinese broccoli being second. This fresh take not only 
tastes better than the restaurant version, but it’s also a lot easier to make.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  2 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
5 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
4 cups water
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1 pound bok choy, rinsed 
and drained well1. In a stockpot, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the garlic and stir-fry until light brown.
2. Pour in the water and bring to a boil. Add the 
salt, sugar, and bok choy and boil for 3 minutes.
3. Drain the boy choy and serve.
SERVING TIP:  Most Asian vegetable dishes are 
stir-fried in a wok. However, the heat of the wok is 
never hot enough in a home kitchen to produce per -
fectly cooked veggies, which are slightly crisp, bright 
green, and not soggy. This method prevents soggy, 
overcooked veggies.83 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 83 VEGETABLES AND T OfUCHINESE
Firecracker Corn
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
Firecracker corn started appearing at Asian fusion restaurants more than 
20 years ago. Americans’ love for corn, fused with some Asian flavors, created 
a hit. Wok-tossing corn with butter, dried chile flakes, scallions, and a touch of 
soy makes for a delicious twist on the traditional corn dish.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  2 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
2 tablespoons 
unsalted butter
2 (15-ounce) cans 
corn, drained
1/2 teaspoon dried 
chile flakes
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon soy sauceIn a nonstick pan, melt the butter over high 
heat. Add the corn, chile flakes, salt, and soy 
sauce and stir-fry for 4 minutes, until tender, 
and serve.
SERVING TIP:  Add minced garlic and minced scal -
lions for more flavor. When corn is in season, use fresh 
corn off the cob. It takes a little more time, but it’s well 
worth it.84 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 84 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Cumin-Spiced Potato
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN  
5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
In Northeastern China, the cuisine is influenced by Russia and Mongolia. 
Cumin, potato, wheat, corn, cabbage, lamb, and mutton are some ingredients 
commonly used in this region, unlike Southern China where produce and sea -
food are plentiful. This dish is inspired by the northeastern region of China and 
makes for a great spicy potato side dish that Americans can enjoy.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
3 russet potatoes, peeled 
and cut into 1-inch cubes
4 tablespoons canola oil
3 teaspoons cumin powder
2 teaspoons 
turmeric powder
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh cilantro
2 teaspoons salt1. In a stockpot, put in the potatoes, add water to 
cover, and bring to a boil. Cook for 15 minutes, 
or until the potatoes are tender. Drain them 
and set aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on medium. 
Add the cumin and turmeric powder and 
stir-fry for 30 seconds.
3. Add the potatoes, cilantro, and salt and stir-fry 
for 2 minutes, making sure to evenly coat the 
potatoes with spices. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  For a more decadent dish, add 
1 tablespoon of butter at the end to finish, then add a 
squeeze of lemon juice. Pair it with roasted chicken to 
make an East-meets-West meat-and-potatoes dinner.85 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 85 VEGETABLES AND T OfUCHINESE
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This is one of the most popular vegetable dishes you can get at Chinese 
restaurants. It’s usually prepared with either soy sauce, broad bean paste, or 
fermented black beans and enhanced with aromatics like ginger and garlic. 
This simple version cuts down cooking time, ingredients, and oil, as we parboil 
the green beans first.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1/4 cup water
2 teaspoons salt, divided
1/2 pound fresh greens 
beans, trimmed 
and halved
2 tablespoons canola oil
1/2 pound fresh white button 
mushrooms, quartered
2 teaspoons minced garlic
2 tablespoons hoisin sauce1. In a wok, bring the water to a boil over high 
heat. Add 1 teaspoon of salt and the green 
beans. Cook, covered, for 3 minutes, or until 
the water evaporates.
2. With the wok still over high heat, add the 
oil, mushrooms, garlic, and the remaining 
1 teaspoon of salt and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
3. Add the hoisin sauce, stir-fry for 2 more min -
utes, and serve.
SWAP IT:  For a more authentic take, use chile broad 
bean paste instead of hoisin sauce and replace the salt 
with sugar. Broad bean paste is salty and spicy, which is 
why you don’t need the salt.86 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 86 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Pan-Fried Black Pepper Tofu
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
With plant-based diets becoming increasingly popular, people are turning 
to Asian cuisine for inspiration. Tofu is incredibly versatile and tastes great 
sautéed, deep-fried, pan-fried, grilled, or steamed. This tofu dish is a version of 
salt and pepper tofu. Instead of deep-frying, we pan-fry and bump up the black 
pepper for an extra kick of spice.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 (16-ounce) package 
medium-firm tofu, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1/2 cup cornstarch
4 tablespoons canola oil
1 cup thinly sliced red onion
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons freshly 
ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon sugar1. Place the tofu in a large shallow dish. Add the 
cornstarch and toss to coat evenly.
2. In a cast-iron skillet, heat the oil over high 
heat. Add the tofu and pan-fry on all sides until 
golden brown, about 8 minutes. Transfer the 
tofu to paper towels to drain.
3. With the skillet still over high heat, add the 
onion and garlic and stir-fry for 1 minute.
4. Add the tofu, salt, pepper, and sugar and 
stir-fry for 1 more minute. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  Enjoy this dish with rice or sautéed 
veggies, or serve it over a salad. Pair it with dipping 
sauces like sweet chile sauce or toasted sesame dress -
ing and serve it as an appetizer.87 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 87 VEGETABLES AND T OfUCHINESE
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
In America, we like efficiency. We want to consume as many vegetables as pos -
sible in one sitting, be it in a salad, pressed juice, or smoothie. Because of this, 
mixed vegetable stir-fries became a very popular Chinese American dish.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 tablespoon thinly 
sliced ginger
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
11/2 cups broccoli florets
2 cups quartered 
Roma tomatoes
1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon 
water, divided
1 cup snow peas
11/2 cups sliced yellow 
bell peppers
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons toasted 
sesame oil1. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat on 
high. Add the ginger and garlic and stir-fry for 
20 seconds.
2. Add the broccoli, tomatoes, and 1/4 cup of water. 
Cover and cook for 5 minutes, or until the water 
has evaporated.
3. Add the peas, bell peppers, salt, and sugar and 
stir-fry for 3 minutes.
4. Mix together the cornstarch and remaining 
1 teaspoon of water to make a slurry. Add it 
and the sesame oil to the wok and stir-fry for 
1 minute. Serve.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  To cut down prep time, 
 purchase precut vegetable stir-fry mix in a bag.
SWAP IT:  Add a spicy kick to the stir-fry by swapping 
out the salt and sugar for 2 tablespoons of oyster sauce 
and 1 tablespoon of sriracha.88 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 88 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKOREAN
Sesame Bean Sprouts
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   
5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Korean cuisine is well-known for barbecue and banchan , the beautiful cold 
dishes that come with the meal. This dish is a popular banchan offering. It’s 
aromatic, savory, and nutty without feeling heavy. It’s a healthy side dish you 
can feel good about eating regularly.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  2 minutes
4 cups water
1 (12-ounce) bag 
bean sprouts
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1/2 teaspoon minced garlic
1/4 cup finely 
chopped scallions1. In a stockpot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Add the bean sprouts and cook for 
2 minutes. Drain the bean sprouts in a colander 
and run under cold water for 1 minute to chill.
2. Squeeze the sprouts with your hands to 
remove excess water. Transfer them to a large 
mixing bowl.
3. Add the salt, oil, garlic, and scallions, tossing 
until well mixed. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  The beauty of banchan is that it sits 
well in the refrigerator and can be eaten as leftovers. 
Toss leftover bean sprouts over rice to make Street Dog 
Bibimbap (page 52) or add them to a salad.89 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 89 VEGETABLES AND T OfUVIETNAMESE
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS
Pickled carrots are widely used in Vietnamese cuisine. They are often pre -
pared with daikon and sometimes cucumbers. These sweet and sour crunchy 
vegetables appear on sandwiches, in rice noodle bowls, on imperial roll plat -
ters, and even on rice plates. To make this dish more accessible, the daikon has 
been omitted.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus 3 hours to pickle
2 (8-ounce) bags 
shredded carrots
2 teaspoons salt
2 cups sugar
11/2 cups warm water
2 cups distilled 
white vinegar1. In a large mixing bowl, put in the carrots. Add 
the salt, massage the carrots with your hands, 
then let them rest for 15 minutes.
2. Rinse the carrots under cold water, then drain 
the excess water.
3. In a medium mixing bowl, whisk the sugar in 
the water until the sugar dissolves. Whisk in 
the vinegar.
4. Fill clean glass mason jars three-quarters full 
with the carrots. Pour in the pickling liquid 
to cover.
5. Close the lids tightly and transfer to the 
refrigerator for at least 3 hours. Store in the 
refrigerator for up to 3 weeks.
SERVING TIPS:  Toss some pickles on your hot 
dogs, place in your sandwiches, or even add some to 
your burger. Use them on your Street Dog Bibimbap 
(page 52), or pair them with other Vietnamese recipes 
found in this book.90 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 90 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Caramelized Brussels Sprouts
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Brussels sprouts have had a bad rap for years, but now you can find them on 
menus of all sorts, including those of Asian restaurants. In San Francisco and 
Los Angeles, fusion Vietnamese restaurants are adding stir-fried Brussels 
sprouts to their menus. The Asian twist on standard fried Brussels sprouts is  
the use of fish sauce and sugar, which packs a big punch of umami.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  12 minutes
6 cups plus 1 tablespoon 
water, divided
24 Brussels 
sprouts, quartered
1/4 cup canola oil
4 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons fish sauce
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons sugar1. In a stockpot, bring 6 cups of water to a boil 
over high heat. Add the sprouts and boil for 
5 minutes. Drain the sprouts, wrap them with 
paper towels, and squeeze out excess water.
2. In a cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and heat 
on high. Add half of the sprouts and stir-fry for 
3 minutes. Transfer the sprouts to paper towels 
to drain. Repeat this process with the remaining 
half of sprouts.
3. Discard the oil from the skillet. Add the garlic 
and toast for 10 seconds.
4. Add the fish sauce, salt, sugar, the remaining 
1 tablespoon of water, and all the sprouts. 
Toss the sprouts for 1 minute, until coated in 
sauce. Serve.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  To cut down on cooking time, 
use shredded Brussels sprouts. Simply omit the boiling 
step and go straight to stir-frying in oil.91 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 91 VEGETABLES AND T OfUVIETNAMESE
Green Bean Omelet
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
A Vietnamese omelet, or trung chien , is traditionally prepared with dried 
shrimp, fresh chiles, and minced scallions and served with rice or stuffed inside 
a baguette. It’s called an omelet, but it’s cooked more like a frittata. This West -
ernized version is milder than the traditional version, made with dried chile 
flakes instead of fresh chiles and fresh green beans instead of dried shrimp.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
2 teaspoons canola oil
1 cup minced green beans
6 eggs, whisked
1 tablespoon fish sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon dried 
chile flakes1. In a nonstick sauté pan or skillet, pour in the oil 
and heat on high, swirling to coat.
2. Add the green beans and sauté for 2 minutes.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the eggs, fish 
sauce, soy sauce, sugar, and chile flakes.
4. Pour the egg mixture into the skillet, tilting  
if necessary, to allow the egg to coat the 
entire pan.
5. Reduce the heat to medium-low and poke holes 
in the cooked eggs to let the liquid run through. 
Cook for about 1 minute, or until the eggs set 
on top. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  If the omelet technique is too hard to 
achieve, scrambling the eggs will work as well.92 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 92 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKTHAI
Eggplant with Green Curry
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
There are three types of curries in Thai cuisine: red, yellow, and green. Green 
curry is the most aromatic and herbaceous, as it has makrut lime, cilantro, 
and basil. These herbs give this mild curry its beautiful green color and its 
intoxicating aroma.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1/4 cup canola oil
2 Chinese eggplants, 
sliced 1-inch thick on 
the diagonal
2 tablespoons Thai green 
curry paste
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 cup water
1 (15-ounce) can baby 
corn, drained
1 cup snow peas1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the eggplant and stir-fry until the 
eggplant is soft when poked with a fork, about 
5 minutes.
2. Transfer the eggplant to paper towels to drain. 
Discard the oil from the pot.
3. In the same Dutch oven still over high heat, 
whisk together the curry paste, coconut milk, 
fish sauce, sugar, and water and bring to a boil.
4. Add the baby corn, snow peas, and eggplant 
and cook for 3 minutes, until tender. Serve.
SWAP IT:  To make this vegetarian, swap out the fish 
sauce for soy sauce.
SERVING TIP:  Elevate the presentation of your dish 
to restaurant level by garnishing with lime wedges and 
fresh Thai bird's eye chiles.93 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 93 VEGETABLES AND T OfUTHAI
Green Papaya Salad (Som Tum)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This bright salad is traditionally mixed with fish sauce, limes, and dried shrimp 
or salted crab. Due to the pungent flavor of dried shrimp and crab, many Thai 
restaurants Westernize their green papaya salads by excluding them. This 
version follows suit and focuses on fresh herbs mixed with citrus, which makes 
it light, refreshing, and fragrant.
SERVES 4 as a side
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
1 green papaya
1 garlic clove, minced
1 tablespoon dried 
chile flakes
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1 tablespoon sugar
Juice of 1 lime
1/2 cup sliced 
cherry tomatoes
1/2 cup shredded carrots
2 tablespoons 
roasted peanuts
8 Thai basil 
leaves, julienned1. Shred the papaya using the large holes of a box 
grater or julienne it with a chef’s knife. Place 
the shredded papaya in a large mixing bowl.
2. To make the dressing, in a separate bowl, whisk 
together the garlic, chile flakes, fish sauce, 
sugar, and lime juice.
3. Pour the dressing over the papaya. Add the 
tomatoes, carrots, peanuts, and Thai basil, toss -
ing until well-mixed. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap green papaya for green apples. It 
tastes just as delicious and adds the same beautiful 
contrast to the salad you would get from a green papaya.94 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 94 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKMYANMARESE
Okra and Eggs
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This is a great introduction to Myanmarese cooking at home, as it’s got all the 
flavors of authentic Myanmarese food but features very American ingredients. 
It’s comfort food that’s easy to make, due to a few shortcuts like frozen cut 
okra, canned tomatoes, and store-bought crispy onions.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
8 eggs
1 tablespoon canola oil
3 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 tablespoon dried 
chile flakes
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/2 teaspoon paprika
1 (24-ounce) can 
diced tomatoes
1 cup store-bought 
crispy onions
1 cup frozen okra
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon salt1. In a stockpot, put in the eggs and add water 
until the eggs are completely submerged. Bring 
to a boil over high heat and cook for 6 minutes. 
Pour out the water and run cold water over the 
eggs to chill them. Peel the eggs and set aside.
2. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the garlic, chile flakes, turmeric, and 
paprika and stir-fry for 10 seconds.
3. Add the tomatoes and bring to a boil. Reduce 
the heat to medium, add the peeled eggs, and 
simmer for 15 minutes.
4. Add the crispy onions, okra, fish sauce, sugar, 
and salt. Stir and simmer for 5 more minutes, 
until the okra is warmed through. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  I recommend French’s crispy 
onions, but if you can’t find them, any brand works.95 VEGETABLES AND T OfU 95 VEGETABLES AND T OfUINDONESIAN
Crispy Tofu with Peanut Sauce
VEGETARIAN   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Many sauces, dips, and dressings in Indonesian cuisine use peanuts. This sweet, 
savory, and creamy sauce paired with crispy tofu makes for an explosion of 
flavors and textures in one bite. And what’s even better is this peanut sauce can 
be used over rice, noodles, dumplings, and salads.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  15 minutes
2 (16-ounce) packages 
medium-firm tofu, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
1 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup cornstarch
1 cup canola oil
1/2 cup peanut butter
1/4 cup hot water
1/4 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup honey or 
maple syrup
1 tablespoon white vinegar1. Place the tofu in a large bowl. Add the salt and 
cornstarch and toss to coat evenly.
2. In a cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding 
the pan, add the tofu and stir-fry for 4 minutes, 
or until golden brown. Transfer the tofu to 
paper towels to drain and set aside.
3. Whisk together the peanut butter and hot water 
in a bowl until smooth. Add the soy sauce, 
honey, and vinegar and whisk to combine.
4. Plate the tofu in a shallow bowl. Drizzle the 
peanut sauce on top and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Be sure to buy medium-firm tofu, 
as it produces the best results when fried. Firm tofu is 
too hard and silken tofu is too soft to handle.96 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 96 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKSRI LANKAN
Red Lentil Curry (Parippu)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Parippu is a traditional Sri Lankan dish that can be prepared with various 
types of lentils. It’s traditionally cooked with coconut milk, turmeric, mus -
tard seeds, fenugreek, cumin, and saffron and is commonly served alongside 
other dishes. For this recipe we use red lentils, as they cook faster than other 
lentils. To save money, this recipe calls for curry powder mix instead of five 
different spices.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons Madras 
curry powder
8 ounces red lentils, rinsed 
and drained
11/2 cups water
1/2 cup store-bought 
crispy onions
1 cup full-fat coconut milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 lime, quartered1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the garlic, curry powder, and lentils 
and stir-fry for 10 seconds. Add the water, 
bring to a boil, and cook for 20 minutes, until 
the lentils are tender.
2. Add the onions, coconut milk, and salt and 
cook, stirring, for 2 minutes.
3. Transfer the curry to a large serving bowl. Serve 
with lime for squeezing.
SWAP IT:  Madras curry powder can be found at local 
supermarkets in the spice section. However, if it can’t 
be found, garam masala, an Indian spice mix, works 
as well.CHICKEN ADOBO, PAGE 10899
SIX
Poultry
•
Salt and Pepper Wings 101
Sweet and Sour Chicken 102
Kung Pao Chicken 103
Chicken with Green Beans in Garlic Sauce 104
Teriyaki Chicken 105
Chicken Karaage 106
Hainan Chicken and Rice 107
Chicken Adobo 108
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad Kra Pao Gai) 109
Mint Chicken 110100 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKIn Asia, poultry can be prepared in many different ways:  
poached, steamed, deep-fried, stir-fried, braised, roasted, smoked, 
grilled, and baked. As we can’t focus on every technique, there are a 
few basic ones that can carry you through most Asian-inspired rec -
ipes. By learning to deep-fry, stir-fry, braise, and steam chicken, we 
can re-create most of the Asian American classics, from kung pao 
chicken to chicken teriyaki to chicken adobo. Given that poultry is 
the most consumed protein in America, adding 10 uniquely satisfying 
chicken recipes—with spicy, sweet, sour, herbaceous, and savory fla -
vors inspired by Asia—to your repertoire of Sunday supper meals will 
make your family excited for more.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Poaching a whole chicken and serving it in its entirety is a distinctively 
Asian method of cooking poultry. In Chinese culture, the entire chicken 
from head to feet is served at the table, and this is because a whole 
chicken represents unity and must always be served during celebratory 
meals. Outside of large banquets, poached chicken is served as chicken 
and rice. Each Asian cuisine has its own version of this comfort food. 
Broth left over from poaching the chicken gets used to make Chicken Fat 
Rice (page 48), and the chicken is served over rice to make an inex -
pensive one-person meal, accompanied by a dipping sauce that changes 
depending on what area of Asia you are in. In Cantonese cuisine, minced 
ginger, garlic, and scallion in oil are used, while in Singapore, a dark soy 
sauce and chile-garlic sauce are used, as in Hainan Chicken and Rice 
(page 107).101 POULTRY 101 POULTRYCHINESE
Salt and Pepper Wings
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Fried chicken is beloved across the world. In China, it’s salt and pepper wings, 
which are seasoned with salt, pepper, fresh garlic, scallions, or chiles. They are 
crispy, juicy, and flavorful—and highly addictive.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus 30 minutes 
to marinate
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
16 chicken wings, 
midsection only
1 tablespoon sake or 
white wine
11/2 teaspoons salt, divided
11/2 teaspoons 
sugar, divided
8 tablespoons 
cornstarch, divided
5 cups canola oil
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 jalapeño pepper, seeded 
and sliced1. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken, sake, 
1/2 teaspoon of salt, 1/2 teaspoon of sugar, and 
2 tablespoons of cornstarch, tossing to coat 
well. Marinate for 30 minutes.
2. In a large cast-iron skillet, heat the oil over high 
heat to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to 
check the temperature.
3. While the oil heats, place the remaining 
6 tablespoons of cornstarch in a shallow bowl. 
Dredge the wings in the cornstarch to evenly 
coat, then set aside.
4. Working in batches of 5 or 6 to avoid over -
crowding the skillet, add the chicken and fry on 
each side for 4 minutes, or until golden brown. 
Transfer to paper towels to drain.
5. In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining 
1 teaspoon of salt, remaining 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, and the pepper.
6. Season the wings with the pepper mix, garnish 
with the jalapeño, and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Using only the midsection of the 
wings will cut down the cooking time.102 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 102 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Sweet and Sour Chicken
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This iconic Chinese American dish is popular all over the world. People love 
the sauce so much it’s used with many other dishes—even McDonald’s offers it 
for chicken nuggets.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 chicken breasts, cut into 
1-inch cubes
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon 
cornstarch, divided
5 cups canola oil
1/4 cup ketchup
1/2 cup white vinegar
1/2 cup white sugar
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon 
water, divided
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1/2 cup diced pineapple1. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken, salt, 
and 1/2 cup of cornstarch, tossing to coat well. 
Set aside.
2. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat on high to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermom -
eter to check the temperature.
3. Working in two batches to prevent overcrowd -
ing, add the chicken and fry on each side for 
4 minutes, or until golden brown. Transfer to 
paper towels to drain.
4. In a saucepan over high heat, whisk together 
the ketchup, vinegar, sugar, 1/4 cup of water, the 
soy sauce, and pineapple and bring to a boil.
5. Mix together the remaining 1 tablespoon of 
cornstarch and 1 tablespoon of water to make 
a slurry. Add it to the pan and stir until a thick, 
glossy sheen forms, 45 seconds to 1 minute.
6. Place the fried chicken in a serving bowl, pour 
in the sauce, and toss to coat evenly. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap chicken for pork tenderloin to make 
sweet and sour pork.103 POULTRY 103 POULTRYCHINESE
Kung Pao Chicken
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This classic Sichuan stir-fry is traditionally made with numbing Sichuan  
peppercorns, bone-in chicken, and tons of chiles. The American version 
omits the peppercorns, brings down the spice level, and uses boneless white 
meat chicken.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
2 chicken breasts, diced
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon 
cornstarch, divided
1 tablespoon canola oil
3 slices ginger
1/4 cup roasted peanuts
1 tablespoon dark soy sauce
11/2 teaspoons salt
1 tablespoon black vinegar
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon dried 
chile flakes
1 teaspoon water
1/4 cup scallions1. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken, soy 
sauce, and 1/4 cup of cornstarch, tossing to coat 
well. Set aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the chicken and ginger and stir-fry for 
5 minutes.
3. Add the peanuts, soy sauce, salt, vinegar, sugar, 
and chile flakes and stir-fry for 3 minutes.
4. Mix together the remaining 1 teaspoon of 
cornstarch and the water to make a slurry. 
Add it and the scallions to the wok and stir for 
2 minutes, or until sauce thickens and absorbs 
into the chicken. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap chicken for shrimp to make kung 
pao shrimp.104 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 104 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Chicken with String Beans is a very Chinese American Dish. String beans or 
green beans are a very American vegetable and, when paired with white meat 
chicken, makes it very approachable. Garlic sauce is a white sauce, meaning 
that it does not contain soy sauce. It’s gluten-free and much lighter than your 
typical stir-fry.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  12 minutes
2 chicken breasts, cut into 
1-inch cubes
1 tablespoon plus 
1 teaspoon 
cornstarch, divided
11/2 teaspoons salt, divided
11/2 teaspoons 
sugar, divided
1 tablespoon canola oil
11/2 cups green beans, 
trimmed and cut into 
2-inch pieces
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 tablespoons plus 
1 teaspoon water, divided1. In a medium bowl, combine the chicken, 
1 tablespoon of cornstarch, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, 
and 1/2 teaspoon of sugar, tossing to coat well. 
Set aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the chicken and stir-fry for 6 minutes. Remove 
the chicken from the wok and set aside.
3. Add the green beans, garlic, the remaining 
1 teaspoon of salt, the remaining 1 teaspoon of 
sugar, and 2 tablespoons of water. Stir, cover, 
and cook for 4 minutes. Add the chicken back 
into the wok.
4. Mix together the remaining 1 teaspoon of corn -
starch and 1 teaspoon of water to make a slurry. 
Add it to the wok and stir-fry for 2 minutes, 
until the sauce thickens. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap the salt with 2 tablespoons of black 
bean sauce to make chicken in black bean sauce. Swap 
green beans for asparagus or sugar snap peas.105 POULTRY 105 POULTRYJAPANESE
Teriyaki Chicken
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Teriyaki is one of the most well-known sauces in Japanese cuisine. This sweet, 
salty, caramel-like sauce is usually prepared with beef or chicken and served 
over rice. Pair this delicious dish with a side of vegetables, and you’ve got 
yourself the perfect meal.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
4 chicken breast cutlets, 
pounded thin
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons 
soy sauce, divided
2 tablespoons mirin, sake, 
or dry white wine
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1 tablespoon canola oil
7 tablespoons brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon minced ginger
1 cup plus 2 teaspoons 
water, divided
2 teaspoons cornstarch1. In a medium bowl, marinate the chicken in 
2 tablespoons of soy sauce, the mirin, and 
sesame oil.
2. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat on 
high. Add 2 cutlets and pan-fry on each side 
for 2 minutes. Transfer to paper towels to 
drain. Repeat this process with the remaining 
2 cutlets.
3. In the wok, still over high heat, combine the 
sugar, the remaining 1/4 cup of soy sauce, ginger, 
and 1 cup of water and boil for 5 minutes.
4. Mix together the cornstarch and remaining 
2 teaspoons of water to make a slurry. Add it 
to the wok and stir for 2 minutes, until the 
sauce thickens.
5. Add the chicken and cook on each side for 
2 minutes. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  If you have a grill, grill the chicken 
cutlets. The smokiness of the chicken paired with teri -
yaki sauce creates a burnt caramel sweetness.106 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 106 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Chicken Karaage
NUT-FREE
Karaage is a deep-fried dish that coats protein or vegetables in potato starch 
and fries them until crispy. Chicken is the most common type of karaage in the 
United States, but in Japan, it’s often made with seafood.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus 1 hour to marinate
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
4 skin-on boneless 
chicken thighs, cut into 
bite-size pieces
1/3 cup soy sauce
2 tablespoons sake
Juice of 1 lemon
2 garlic cloves, minced
5 cups canola oil
11/2 cups potato flour
1 teaspoon sea salt1. Place the chicken in a medium bowl. Add the 
soy sauce, sake, lemon juice, and garlic and use 
your hands to mix in the marinade. Let it mari -
nate for 1 hour.
2. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat to 340°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to 
check the temperature.
3. Place the flour in a shallow bowl. Dredge the 
chicken in the flour.
4. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding the 
skillet, add the chicken and fry until golden 
brown, about 7 minutes. Transfer the chicken 
to a wire rack to drain.
5. Season the chicken with salt while still hot 
and serve.
SWAP IT:  Potato flour produces the lightest, fluffiest 
coating and is traditionally used in chicken karaage, 
but if you can’t find it, all-purpose flour or cornstarch 
work well.107 POULTRY 107 POULTRYSINGAPOREAN
Hainan Chicken and Rice
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE
Chicken and rice has blown up in America in the last few years. But the true 
godfather of it all is Savoy in Los Angeles. This spot opened in 1982 and serves 
its famous Hainan Chicken and Rice, alongside pizza with conch and prosciutto, 
curry beef stews, and roasted chicken over pasta.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  20 minutes
COOK TIME:  45 minutes
6 cups plus 4 tablespoons 
water, divided
4 skin-on boneless 
chicken thighs
4 skin-on chicken breasts
6 slices ginger
1 scallion, halved
2 tablespoons salt
3 pandan leaves or 
bay leaves
Juice of 2 limes
4 teaspoons sugar
6 tablespoons sriracha
6 garlic cloves
2 tablespoons 
minced ginger
Chicken Fat Rice (page 48), 
for serving1. In a stockpot over high heat, pour in 6 cups 
of water. Add the chicken, ginger slices, scal -
lion, salt, and pandan leaves and bring to a 
boil. Reduce the heat to medium, cover, and 
simmer for 40 minutes, or until the chicken is 
cooked through.
2. Combine the remaining 4 tablespoons of 
water, the lime juice, sugar, sriracha, garlic, 
and minced ginger in a blender and pulse 
until smooth.
3. Remove the chicken from the pot and plunge it 
into an ice bath for 30 seconds.
4. Slice the chicken into 1/2-inch strips. Serve over 
Chicken Fat Rice with the sauce.
SWAP IT:  Use skinless chicken if you prefer, as 
poached chicken skin isn’t for everyone.108 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 108 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFILIPINO
Chicken Adobo
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Chicken adobo is one of the most popular Filipino dishes. It’s prepared with 
bay leaves, black peppercorns, soy sauce, sugar, and vinegar. The sauce in 
adobo works beautifully with rice or mashed potatoes.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  40 minutes
2 tablespoons canola oil
4 skin-on, bone-in 
chicken thighs
1/4 cup soy sauce
1/2 cup white vinegar
1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon whole 
black peppercorns
2 bay leaves
3 garlic cloves, sliced1. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Add the chicken and fry on each side for 
3 minutes, until golden brown.
2. Add the soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, pepper -
corns, bay leaves, and garlic and bring to a boil. 
Reduce the heat to low, cover, and simmer for 
20 minutes.
3. Turn the chicken over, cover, and cook for 
another 10 minutes, or until the chicken is 
cooked through.
4. Uncover, increase the heat to high, and 
cook until the sauce thickens, about 
5 minutes. Serve.
SERVING TIP:  Shred leftover adobo chicken and 
use it to make tacos or burritos for a fun Filipino 
Mexican dish.109 POULTRY 109 POULTRYTHAI
Thai Basil Chicken 
(Pad Kra Pao Gai)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
This is a popular Thai street-food dish served with rice and fried egg. Pad 
kra pao  means “stir-fried holy basil” and gai means “chicken.” Holy basil is 
not to be confused with Thai basil, which is more pungent in flavor than holy 
basil. This version uses Italian basil because it resembles holy basil more than 
Thai basil.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  3 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 pound ground chicken
5 Thai chiles
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 tablespoon oyster sauce
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1 teaspoon dark soy sauce
1 teaspoon sugar
1 cup chopped fresh basil1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the chicken and stir-fry for 5 minutes, breaking 
the chicken apart with a spatula.
2. Add the chiles, garlic, oyster sauce, soy sauce, 
fish sauce, dark soy sauce, and sugar and stir-fry 
for 3 minutes.
3. Add the basil and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Serve.
SWAP IT:  If Thai chiles can’t be found, use 
2 teaspoons sambal, an Indonesian chile paste, or 
sriracha instead.110 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 110 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKMYANMARESE
Mint Chicken
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Myanmarese-style mint chicken is sort of like taco-style ground beef, except 
made with Southeast Asian flavors. The fresh mint added in the end reminds 
me of fresh cilantro and onions tossed on top of tacos. This flavorful chicken 
dish can be enjoyed with rice and in tortillas and lettuce cups.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 pound ground chicken
1/2 teaspoon cumin powder
1 tablespoon sambal
1 tablespoon dark soy sauce
1 teaspoon fish sauce
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1 tablespoon minced garlic
1/2 cup chopped fresh mint1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. 
Add the chicken and cumin and stir-fry for 
5 minutes, breaking the chicken apart with 
a spatula.
2. Add the sambal, soy sauce, fish sauce, sugar, 
and garlic and stir-fry for 5 minutes.
3. Garnish with the mint and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Sambal is an Indonesian chile 
paste made with shrimp paste, garlic, ginger, shallots, 
sugar, and lime juice. Find it in the Asian section of the 
grocery or online.
SWAP IT:  Swap sambal for red curry paste, which 
has similar flavors. Add extra sugar and a touch of fish 
sauce to balance out the flavors.SWEET AND SPICY KOREAN SHORT RIBS (GALBI), PAGE 125113SEVEN
Beef, Pork, 
and Lamb
•
Sichuan Lamb with Scallions 116
Mongolian Beef 117
Beef and Broccoli 118
Spicy Twice-Cooked Bacon 119
Mapo Tofu with Pork 120
Lemongrass Pork Chops (Thit Heo Nuong Xa) 121
Shaking Beef (Bo Luc Lac) 122
Spicy Pork Patties 123
Pork Bulgogi 124
Sweet and Spicy Korean Short Ribs (Galbi) 125114 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKChicken may be the most popular protein in the United  
States, but pork is the most consumed meat in China. f rom dump -
ling fillings and stir-fried dishes to soups and braises, pork is used 
more than any other protein. It is prized for its sweet, mild flavor and 
pleasant texture. And that’s why half the recipes in this chapter are 
dedicated to pork prepared in every which way: ground pork, pork 
chops, pork shoulder, bacon, and sausages. While bacon and sausages 
are not conventional ingredients in Asian cuisine, they pair beautifully 
with Asian flavors and provide great shortcuts to save time. m ixing 
Western and Asian ingredients is what this book is all about. Dishes 
such as kung pao pastrami from the famous m ission Chinese f ood 
in San f rancisco prove that Western substitutes, such as pastrami, 
bacon, and Italian sausage, can be used to create delicious main -
stream Asian American dishes. You’ll also learn to use certain Asian 
seasonings like a pro. Hoisin sauce, soy sauce, and chile bean sauce 
are a few versatile sauces you’ll start stocking in your pantry.115 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBFUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
According to Chinese medicine, seasonal eating promotes good health. 
There is a whole school of thought that explains which ingredients should 
be consumed during the winter versus during the summer. When it’s 
cold, your body needs heat and increased blood flow to bring energy and 
strength. During the hot seasons, your body needs to cool down, cleanse, 
and rehydrate to feel less heavy, lethargic, and weak. Proteins such as 
lamb, beef, and pork are consumed largely in Northern China, where 
there are freezing winters. Meat dishes combined with spices such as 
cumin, garlic, and peppercorn all bring heat to your body and get your 
blood flowing. Sichuan Lamb with Scallions (page 116) and Mapo Tofu 
with Pork (page 120) are examples of dishes from the Sichuan region 
that will keep you warm and satisfied. Korea also has cold winters, which 
explains why grilling meats over charcoal is so popular, as are stews and 
soups. Sitting by a grill, cooking your own Sweet and Spicy Korean Short 
Ribs (page 125) with a hot bowl of rice is the perfect way to prepare a 
winter meal. In contrast, if you head to Vietnam and Singapore, where 
the weather is hot, dishes such as Grass Jelly Almond Ice-Cream Float 
(page 151) or Honeydew Sago (page 152) will help cleanse the system 
of heat and provide hydration.116 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 116 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Sichuan Lamb with Scallions
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
In Northern China, regions such as Sichuan, Hebei, Shanxi, and Beijing 
favor garlic, scallions, and chiles. The region’s food tends to be simple, mostly 
meat-based, and limited in the harsh winter months when it comes to veggies. 
Americans’ tolerance for spice has gone up over the years, and spicier regional 
dishes such as this one are becoming staples.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  12 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 pound boneless lamb, 
thinly sliced
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1 teaspoon ground cumin
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon Shaoxing rice 
wine or dry white wine
11/2 teaspoons canola oil
2 teaspoons 
Sichuan peppercorns
11/2 cups sliced scallions
2 tablespoons dried 
chile flakes1. In a large bowl, marinate the lamb with the 
cornstarch, salt, garlic, cumin, soy sauce, and 
wine for 10 minutes.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on medium. 
Add the peppercorns and sauté for 2 minutes 
to release their flavor. Remove and discard the 
peppercorns but leave the oil.
3. Increase the heat to high to heat the oil. Add 
the lamb, scallions, and chile flakes. Stir-fry for 
5 minutes, until the lamb is cooked through, 
and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Shaoxing rice wine is a type of 
Chinese rice wine. Find it in the Asian section of some 
supermarkets and in Asian markets.
SWAP IT:  Sichuan peppercorns provide the charac -
teristic numbing effect of Sichuan cuisine, but they 
can be hard to find. If necessary, swap them with whole 
black peppercorns.117 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmB 117 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBCHINESE
Mongolian Beef
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Mongolian beef is not actually from Mongolia. It was made popular in the 
United States by Chinese restaurants, where sautéing in a round griddle in 
front of customers became a huge fast-casual hit during the 1980s.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 pound flank steak, 
thinly sliced
3 tablespoons 
cornstarch, divided
3 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons canola oil
11/2 cups baby corn
2 tablespoons soy sauce
6 tablespoons hoisin sauce
2 tablespoons 
white vinegar
1 tablespoon sugar
2 tablespoons freshly 
ground black pepper
1 tablespoon water1. Marinate the steak with 2 tablespoons of corn -
starch, the sesame oil, and salt for 2 minutes.
2. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat on 
high. Add the beef and stir-fry for 5 minutes. 
Transfer to a plate.
3. In the same wok still over high heat, add the 
baby corn, soy sauce, hoisin sauce, vinegar,  
sugar, and pepper and stir-fry for 4 minutes.
4. Mix together the remaining 1 tablespoon of 
cornstarch and the water to make a slurry. Add 
it and the beef to the wok and stir-fry until the 
sauce thickens, about 1 minute.
SWAP IT:  Swap baby corn with any crunchy vegetable 
you like that cooks fast, such as snow peas, celery, or 
bell peppers.118 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 118 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Beef and Broccoli
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
Beef and broccoli is a quintessential Chinese American dish that was created 
after the original version called gai lan chao niu rou . The Cantonese version 
uses Chinese broccoli, something that wasn’t available in the United States 
back in the early days.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  16 minutes
6 ounces broccoli florets
4 tablespoons canola 
oil, divided
1 pound boneless 
ribeye steak, cut into 
1-inch cubes
2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons white wine
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 cup oyster sauce
1 teaspoon ginger powder 
or fresh minced ginger
1/4 cup soy sauce
1/4 cup honey
3 tablespoons water1. Preheat the oven to 350°F .
2. In a medium bowl, toss the broccoli in 
2 tablespoons of oil and transfer it to a 
baking sheet.
3. Marinate the beef in the cornstarch, wine, salt, 
and sugar for 10 minutes.
4. While the beef is marinating, roast the broccoli 
for 10 minutes, then transfer to a serving plate 
and set aside.
5. In a wok, pour in the remaining 2 tablespoons 
of oil and heat on high. Add the beef and 
stir-fry until medium done, about 5 minutes. 
Plate the beef over the broccoli.
6. In the same wok still over high heat, combine 
the oyster sauce, ginger, soy sauce, honey, and 
water and simmer, stirring, for 1 minute.
7. Pour the sauce over the beef and broccoli 
and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Roasting broccoli creates a nutty, 
slightly charred flavor that works beautifully with beef 
and broccoli sauce. Boiling broccoli, which is the tradi -
tional method, can produce watery stir-fry results.119 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmB 119 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBCHINESE
Spicy Twice-Cooked Bacon
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  ONE POT
Twice-cooked pork, called hui guo rou , is a traditional Sichuan dish. Pork belly 
is first boiled whole, then sliced thin before being sautéed in a hot wok. This 
version uses bacon, which eliminates the need to cook the pork twice and adds 
a smoky flavor to the dish.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 teaspoon canola oil
12 bacon slices, cut into 
2-inch pieces
1 leek, thinly sliced at 
an angle
5 thin slices ginger
1 (8-ounce) can water 
chestnuts, drained
1 tablespoon white wine
1 tablespoon chile 
bean sauce, such as 
Lee Kum Kee
1 tablespoon brown sugar
1 teaspoon dried 
chile flakes1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the bacon and cook until slightly crisp, about 
3 minutes. Transfer the bacon to paper towels 
to drain.
2. Add the leek, ginger, water chestnuts, and wine 
and sauté for 3 minutes.
3. Add the bean sauce, sugar, chile flakes, and 
bacon and stir-fry for 2 minutes. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  The addition of water chestnuts 
sweetens up the dish a bit and adds a layer of moist 
crunch to the dish to complement the salty, oily bacon.120 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 120 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Mapo Tofu with Pork
NUT-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY  
ONE POT   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
The word  ma is short for ma-zi , which means “pockmarks,” and the Chinese 
word popo means “grandma.” Many believe a pockmarked old woman came up 
with this dish, thus “mapo” tofu was born. The Sichuan version uses salty broad 
bean paste and numbing peppercorns. This one uses Italian sausage, which 
imparts a surprisingly authentic taste.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
2 teaspoons canola oil
4 spicy Italian sausages, 
casings removed
1 (16-ounce) package 
medium-firm tofu, cut 
into 1-inch cubes
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon chile powder
1 tablespoon toasted 
sesame oil1. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat 
on high. Add the sausage and stir-fry for 
3 minutes, breaking the sausage apart with 
a spatula.
2. Add the tofu, soy sauce, and chile powder and 
gently stir to combine.
3. Reduce the heat to medium and simmer for 
5 minutes.
4. Add the sesame oil, stir to combine, and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  To add the authentic numbing 
element, start the recipe by toasting Sichuan pepper -
corns in the oil. Remove the peppercorns, then use the 
oil to cook the sausage.121 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmB 121 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBVIETNAMESE
Lemongrass Pork Chops 
(Thit Heo Nuong Xa)
NUT-FREE
You can smell this dish in the streets of Vietnam from miles away. This cheap, 
everyday dish is now a healthy fast-casual concept for Americans, where you 
can choose from grilled lemongrass chicken, pork, or beef served over a bowl 
of rice, noodles, or salad. This recipe calls for a skillet, but if you have a grill, 
throw those chops on there.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes, 
plus 4 hours to marinate
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1/2 cup fish sauce
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1/4 cup honey
2 garlic cloves, minced
Juice of 1 lime
2 tablespoons 
lemongrass paste
4 bone-in pork chops
2 tablespoons canola oil1. In a large bowl, whisk together the fish sauce, 
soy sauce, honey, garlic, lime juice, and lemon -
grass. Add the pork chops and cover with the 
marinade. Transfer to the refrigerator to mari -
nate overnight or for at least 4 hours.
2. Let the pork rest at room temperature for 
30 minutes. Remove the pork chops from the 
marinade and pat dry. Reserve the marinade.
3. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat on high. Add the pork chops and sear on 
each side for 4 minutes. Add the marinade and 
cook the pork chops for 2 minutes on each side, 
or until they are cooked through.
4. Transfer the pork chops to plates, pour the 
sauce on top, and serve.
TAKE A SHORTCUT:  To cut down on cooking time 
and to save 2 hours of marinating time, choose thin 
chops over thick cuts.122 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 122 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Shaking Beef (Bo Luc Lac)
NUT-FREE   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This dish gets its name from the shaking motion used to cook the beef in a 
wok. In the United States, this dish appears more often at higher-end  
Vietnamese restaurants touting chunkier expensive cuts such as filet mignon 
or ribeye. In Vietnam, large chunks of sautéed beef are not desired and 
high-quality meats are not affordable, so they use cheaper cuts that are 
tougher and thus cut small.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes, 
plus 2 hours to marinate
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 teaspoon sugar
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1 teaspoon dark soy sauce
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 tablespoon freshly ground 
black pepper
Juice of 1 lime
1 pound filet mignon, cut 
into 3/4-inch cubes
2 tablespoons canola oil
1 small red onion, thinly 
sliced, for garnish
1 lime, cut into wedges1. In a large bowl, whisk together the sugar, fish 
sauce, dark soy sauce, soy sauce, pepper, and 
lime juice. Add the steak, mix to coat, and 
 marinate in the refrigerator for 2 hours.
2. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat on high. Add the steak and sear on each 
side for 1 minute by shaking the pan every 
minute for a total of 4 minutes.
3. Plate the steak, garnish with the onion and 
limes, and serve.
SERVING TIP:  If medium-rare is not desired, cook 
the steak for 4 minutes longer for medium-well.123 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmB 123 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBTHAI
Spicy Pork Patties
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
The flavors of this patty capture the brightness of Northern Thai sausages.  
Traditionally, Thai sausages are eaten with sticky rice or as an appetizer. To 
make these sausages more approachable, we turned them into little patties. 
Now you can enjoy them as mini sliders, in lettuce wraps, or over rice.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  30 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
3/4 pound ground pork
2 teaspoons Thai red 
curry paste
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 small red onion, 
finely chopped
2 tablespoons lime juice
1/4 cup minced fresh cilantro
2 teaspoons sugar
1 tablespoon dried 
chile flakes
2 teaspoons fish sauce
1/2 cup canola oil1. In a large bowl, using your hands, mix together 
the pork, curry paste, cornstarch, onion, lime 
juice, cilantro, sugar, chile flakes, and fish sauce. 
Cover and chill for 30 minutes.
2. Form the pork mixture into patties by dividing 
it into 12 equal portions. Roll each portion into 
a ball, then flatten it into a 1/2-inch-thick disk.
3. In a large cast-iron skillet, pour in the oil and 
heat on high until the oil smokes. Reduce 
the heat to medium, add the patties, and 
shallow-fry on each side for 4 minutes, or until 
cooked through. Transfer to paper towels to 
drain. Serve.
SWAP IT:  If you don’t like pork, you can swap it for 
ground chicken or turkey.124 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 124 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKKOREAN
Pork Bulgogi
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY   •  TAKEOUT FAVORITE
In Korea, spicy pork bulgogi ( dwaeji bulgogi ) is far more popular than beef 
bulgogi, though the beef version dominates in America. The traditional sauce is 
spicy from gochujang and sweet from sugar and pureed apple or Korean pear. 
This version uses canned pears, which are readily available everywhere and 
produce the same results. Enjoy over rice or in lettuce wraps.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  35 minutes
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
1 (8-ounce) can 
pears, drained
4 tablespoons gochujang
3 tablespoons soy sauce
3 tablespoons brown sugar
1 tablespoon minced ginger
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 pound pork shoulder, 
thinly sliced
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 medium white onion, 
thinly sliced
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame seeds1. In a blender, combine the pears, gochujang, 
soy sauce, sugar, ginger, sesame oil, and pepper 
and pulse for 20 seconds, or until smooth. In a 
large bowl, combine the pork and the sauce and 
marinate for 30 minutes.
2. In a wok, pour in the canola oil and heat on high 
until the oil smokes. Reduce the heat to medium, 
add the pork, and stir-fry for 8 minutes. Add the 
onion and stir-fry for 2 minutes.
3. Garnish with the sesame seeds and serve.
SWAP IT:  At Korean markets you can find presliced 
pork shoulder, but you can also ask your butcher for 
this cut. But if your butcher can’t supply this cut, then 
getting pork tenderloin and slicing it yourself will work 
as well.125 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmB 125 BEEf , PORK, AND LAmBKOREAN
Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi)
NUT-FREE
The word galbi means “ribs” in Korean. In Korea, short ribs are cut along the 
bone, resulting in a thick piece of meat with one bone. In America, we know 
Korean short ribs as thin strips of meat with three bones in it. This cut was 
created by Koreans here in Los Angeles.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes, 
plus 4 hours to marinate
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1/2 cup brown sugar
4 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
1/2 cup canned 
pineapple, drained
5 garlic cloves, minced
1/2 cup soy sauce
2 teaspoons vinegar
2 teaspoons Korean chile 
powder (gochugaru) 
or sriracha
4 pounds Korean short ribs 
(see Tip on page 62)1. In a blender, combine the sugar, sesame oil, 
pineapple, garlic, soy sauce, vinegar, and 
chile powder and pulse for 15 seconds, or 
until smooth.
2. Place the ribs and marinade in a 2-gallon 
zip-top bag and marinate for 4 hours in 
the refrigerator.
3. Let the ribs rest for 30 minutes at room tem -
perature. Remove them from the marinade and 
reserve the marinade.
4. Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium. Add the 
ribs and grill on each side for 4 minutes, or until 
cooked through. Set aside on a serving plate.
5. Transfer the marinade to a saucepot over high 
heat and bring to a boil. Cook for 3 minutes. 
Serve the ribs with the sauce on the side.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Traditionally, Asian pears are 
used in the marinade, but when you can’t find them, 
canned pineapple does the trick.TUNA POKE BOWL, PAGE 134127
EIGHT
Seafood
•
Steamed Scallops with Ginger and Scallions 129
Salt and Pepper Calamari 130
Honey Walnut Shrimp 131
Wasabi Soy Salmon 132
Hibachi Garlic Prawns 133
Tuna Poke Bowl 134
Sugarcane Shrimp 135
Fish in Caramel Sauce (Ca Kho To) 136
Coconut Clams with Lime 137
Fried Tilapia with Salsa 138128 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKSeafood is a major part of the Asian diet, especially in the  
southern regions of Asia where island and coastal cultures have made it 
a signature ingredient. As a result, all kinds of seafood can be found in 
Asia, varying from region to region. Different seafood means different 
sauces and methods of cooking, resulting in a foodie paradise for sea -
food lovers. f or example, clams in Thailand may be sautéed or boiled 
with lemongrass, coconut, and galangal while clams in Hong Kong may 
be stir-fried with chile black beans. f ish may be poached in spicy broth 
in Northern China but braised in a caramel fish sauce in Vietnam. This 
chapter will show you how to make a wide variety of Asian-style sea -
food dishes with an American twist. You’ll learn to steam, fry, braise, 
and stir-fry seafood to master your favorite Asian American dishes 
from the comfort of your home.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Did you know that fish is often served whole, from head to tail, in Asia? 
And that almost all seafood consumed is usually live or freshly caught 
and never frozen? Asians value freshness at such a high level that sea -
food restaurants are outfitted with tanks carrying live sea creatures for 
customers to choose from. You can order crab, lobster, fish, mollusks, 
shrimp, and eel, just to name a few, by weight from the tank, then choose 
a preparation method, and sit down for a feast. Delicate-fleshed fish are 
usually steamed with aromatics so the true flavor of the fish can come 
through. The fatty meat closest to the fin, tail, and head is the tastiest. 
A firmer-fleshed fish can be deep-fried, sautéed, or braised. If you feel 
adventurous, try making Fried Tilapia with Salsa (page 138) using a 
whole fish, which is the traditional way.129 SEAfOOD 129 SEAfOODCHINESE
Steamed Scallops with 
Ginger and Scallions
NUT-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Steamed fish, prawns, and scallops are common in Chinese cuisine, especially 
in the southern region of China, where sauces are light and used to bring out 
the natural flavors of the fish. When this method of cooking was brought to 
the United States, restaurant owners used prepped seafood that Americans 
recognized—sea bass, salmon, scallops, and peeled prawns—as they were  
concerned seafood with bones, heads, and tails would be too exotic.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
4 cups water
12 fresh scallops
1 (2-inch) piece ginger, 
thinly sliced
1/2 cup thinly 
sliced scallions
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 tablespoons canola oil1. In a stockpot fitted with a steaming rack, bring 
the water to a boil over high heat.
2. Slice each scallop in half and place on a shallow 
round plate, spreading them out evenly.
3. Using oven mitts, place the plate on the stream -
ing rack. Cover and steam for 3 minutes.
4. Remove the plate, garnish with the ginger and 
scallions, and pour the soy sauce over the top.
5. In a small pan, pour in the oil and heat on 
high. Then pour the hot oil over the scallops 
and serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap the scallops with tender whitefish 
fillets, such as dover sole or sea bass.130 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 130 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Salt and Pepper Calamari
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
In Chinese cuisine, there is a method of preparation called “salt and pepper,” 
where ingredients are fried and seasoned in a salt and pepper mix, then tossed 
with aromatics such as garlic and fresh chiles. With America’s love for fried 
calamari, it’s no wonder that this dish has become a huge hit.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  6 minutes
1 pound fresh calamari
1 egg, whisked
1/4 cup cornstarch
11/2 cups canola oil
3 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 teaspoon sugar
1 jalapeño pepper, seeded 
and minced1. Place the calamari in a large bowl. Add the egg 
and use your hands to mix. Add the cornstarch 
and mix again to coat evenly.
2. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high to 375°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to 
check the temperature.
3. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding the 
pot, add the calamari and fry for 2 to 3 minutes, 
or golden brown. Transfer the calamari to paper 
towels to drain, then plate.
4. In a small bowl, combine the salt, pepper, and 
sugar. Sprinkle the mix over the calamari, gar -
nish with the jalapeño, and serve.
SERVING TIP:  Don’t use the entire salt and pepper 
mix on this dish. Sprinkle some on, taste, and add more 
as needed. Serve leftover mix on the side for guests 
who want more.131 SEAfOOD 131 SEAfOODCHINESE
Honey Walnut Shrimp
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Honey walnut shrimp was invented in Hong Kong under the influence of British 
colonization. Crispy sweet prawns paired with candied walnuts was a match 
made in heaven, and when the chefs in Hong Kong brought it over to the 
United States, it quickly became a Chinese American staple.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  6 minutes
20 medium shrimp, peeled 
and deveined
1 teaspoon salt
2 eggs, whisked
1 cup cornstarch
11/2 cups canola oil
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1/4 honey
2 tablespoons heavy 
(whipping) cream
1 cup store-bought 
candied walnuts1. In a medium bowl, combine the shrimp, salt, 
and eggs and use your hands to massage to 
coat evenly.
2. Pour the cornstarch into a shallow bowl. Dredge 
the shrimp in the cornstarch and set aside.
3. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to 
check the temperature.
4. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding the 
pot, add the shrimp and fry for 2 minutes, or 
until golden brown. Transfer to paper towels to 
drain, then place in a serving bowl.
5. In a separate bowl, whisk together the may -
onnaise, honey, and cream until smooth. Pour 
over the fried shrimp, then add the walnuts and 
toss to coat evenly. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap store-bought candied nuts with 
homemade. Boil 1/2 cup of water and 1/2 cup of sugar in a 
small pot until it thickens into a syrup. Add the walnuts 
and stir until the syrup turns golden brown, about 
5 minutes. Pour them onto a baking sheet to cool.132 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 132 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Wasabi Soy Salmon
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Americans were introduced to wasabi when sushi was brought over by the 
Japanese, but 99 percent of what we know as wasabi is fake, made with  
horseradish, food coloring, and some chemicals. The real wasabi root is  
delicate, slightly sweet, and doesn’t sting as much, but it’s too expensive to  
be commonly served.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
1 pound salmon, patted 
dry and cut into 
1-inch-thick slices
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper
1 tablespoon sake
3 tablespoons canola 
oil, divided
1/2 teaspoon wasabi
1/4 cup soy sauce
3 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil1. Place the salmon in a bowl and add the salt, 
pepper, sake, and 1 tablespoon of canola oil, 
mixing to coat evenly.
2. In a large sauté pan or skillet, pour in the 
remaining 2 tablespoons of canola oil and heat 
on high. Add the salmon and sear on all sides 
for 1 minute, for a total of 4 minutes. Transfer 
to a serving plate.
3. In a small bowl, whisk together the wasabi, soy 
sauce, honey, and sesame oil. Pour the sauce 
over the salmon and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Cook the salmon medium-rare to 
medium. Use farm-raised Atlantic salmon for a fattier, 
more tender cut.133 SEAfOOD 133 SEAfOODJAPANESE
Hibachi Garlic Prawns
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Benihana opened his first teppanyaki steakhouse in New York in 1964 and 
since then, it has become the most famous Japanese steakhouse in the United 
States. Theatrical cooking combined with Western ingredients, such as lobster, 
scallops, chicken, steak, and salad, got Americans hooked.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
1/2 cup unsalted butter, at 
room temperature
11/2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon soy sauce
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 teaspoon canola oil
1 pound prawns, shelled 
and deveined
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground 
black pepper1. In a medium bowl, fold together the butter, 
lemon juice, soy sauce, and garlic until fully 
mixed, about 1 minute. Set aside.
2. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high until 
the oil smokes. Add the prawns and sauté for 
2 minutes on each side.
3. Add 4 teaspoons of the garlic butter and cook 
the prawns for 2 more minutes on each side, or 
until slightly brown.
4. Season with the salt and pepper and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Store leftover garlic butter and 
use it to make garlic bread or as a topping for fried rice, 
baked potato, grilled fish, or steaks.134 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 134 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKHAWAIIAN
Tuna Poke Bowl
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Poke bowls have been popping up everywhere in the major cities of America. 
Poke originates from Hawaii. It was originally made with raw diced fish mar -
inated with salt, seaweed, and crushed nuts. But over time, due to the influx of 
Asian immigrants into Hawaii, traditional poke ingredients were replaced with 
others such as furikake, wasabi, and fish eggs.
YIELD: Serves 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
1 Fuji apple, diced
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame oil
Zest and juice of 1 lemon
2 tablespoons soy sauce
2 teaspoons sriracha or 
1/2 teaspoon wasabi
1/4 cup chopped scallions
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame seeds
1 pound high-quality ahi 
tuna or maguro, diced1. In a large bowl, whisk together the apple, 
sesame oil, lemon zest and juice, soy sauce, sri -
racha, scallions, and sesame seeds until smooth.
2. Add the tuna, then mix and serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap the apple for an avocado and add 
mayonnaise for a creamier poke. Or swap scallions for 
red onions. The beauty of poke is that you can play with 
different ingredients.135 SEAfOOD 135 SEAfOODVIETNAMESE
Sugarcane Shrimp
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Over time, Americans have become more adventurous with food and want to 
taste new flavors and textures. There is a greater demand for more exotic ingre -
dients, making dishes such as sugarcane shrimp possible in the United States. 
This crisp, moist, fried shrimp meatball dipped in spicy, sweet sauce is divine.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus 3 hours to chill
COOK TIME:  10 minutes
3 pieces sugarcane
3/4 pound medium shrimp, 
peeled and deveined
1/2 teaspoon toasted 
sesame oil
1 egg white
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon sugar
11/2 cups canola oil
1/4 cup sriracha
1/4 cup honey1. Peel the sugarcane and cut it into 4 pieces 
(about 3 inches long) to make 12 pieces. 
Set aside.
2. In a blender, combine the shrimp, sesame 
oil, egg white, salt, and sugar and pulse 
until smooth.
3. Transfer the shrimp mixture into a bowl, then 
cover with plastic wrap and chill for 3 hours.
4. Using your hands, form the shrimp mixture 
into an elongated round ball, something that 
resembles almost a leaner football. Wrap the 
shrimp mixture patty around the sugarcane.
5. In a Dutch oven, pour in the canola oil and heat 
to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to check 
the temperature.
6. Working in two batches, add the elongated 
round shrimp balls and fry for 2 minutes on 
each side, until golden brown.
7. Whisk together the sriracha and honey. Serve 
with the shrimp balls as a dipping sauce.
SWAP IT:  If sugarcane can’t be found, cook without it, 
then garnish the dish with minced pineapple on top to 
add a fruity sweetness.136 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 136 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKVIETNAMESE
Fish in Caramel Sauce (Ca Kho To)
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Ca kho to  is a braised and caramelized fish served alongside rice that’s com -
monly made at home using beef, pork, and chicken. The sauce in this local dish 
transported to the United States and has garnered attention from American 
chefs. It’s essentially sweetened fish sauce that is thick and smooth like cara -
mel. Now you can make it at home.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  35 minutes
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons canola oil
6 catfish fillets, halved
3 garlic cloves, minced
3 shallots, minced
2 tablespoons fish sauce
1 cup coconut water1. In a Dutch oven, put in the sugar and heat on 
medium, whisking until the sugar melts and 
turns light brown, about 2 minutes. Imme -
diately add the oil and whisk to cool down 
the caramel.
2. Add the fish and cook on each side for 1 minute. 
Add the garlic, shallots, fish sauce, and coconut  
water, reduce the heat to low, and simmer 
for 6 minutes, or until the fish is cooked 
through. Serve.
SWAP IT:  For a spicier kick, add ginger and chopped 
fresh Thai chiles. Swap catfish for tilapia or sea bass.137 SEAfOOD 137 SEAfOODTHAI
Coconut Clams with Lime
NUT-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This dish is a take on steamed clams ( moules-frites ), where fresh shellfish 
simmers in a tasty broth and is served with crusty grilled bread. Rather 
than simmering in garlic, white wine, parsley, and butter, this version is 
inspired by Thai flavors: chile, cilantro, fish sauce, and coconut milk. South -
east Asian–inspired clam steamers are now appearing at Western bistros 
and gastropubs.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
1 tablespoon canola oil
4 garlic cloves, sliced
3 Thai chiles
1 (13.5-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk
2 tablespoons soy sauce
1 tablespoon fish sauce
1 teaspoon sugar
3 pounds fresh clams, 
rinsed and scrubbed
1/2 cup minced fresh cilantro
Juice of 2 limes and zest1. In a wok, pour in the oil and heat on high. Add 
the garlic and chiles and stir-fry for 30 seconds.
2. Add the coconut milk, soy sauce, fish sauce, and 
sugar and bring to a boil.
3. Add the clams, cover, and bring to a boil. Cook 
for 4 minutes, or until the clam shells open.
4. Remove from the heat. Add the cilantro and 
lime juice and zest and stir. Serve.
SWAP IT:  Swap clams for mussels and serve with 
crusty grilled bread to sop up the beautiful broth.138 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 138 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFILIPINO
Fried Tilapia with Salsa
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This is a take on a traditional Filipino dish that involves frying a whole tilapia 
with the head and tail and serving it with salsa. Here, a whole fish is swapped 
with a fillet. Filipino food is hugely influenced by colonizers of Chinese, 
Malay, Arab, and Spanish descent, which explains why salsa can be found in 
their cuisine.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 beefsteak tomato, diced
1/4 cup chopped 
fresh cilantro
Juice of 1 lime
3 tablespoons extra-virgin 
olive oil
2 teaspoons salt, divided
4 tilapia fillets, sliced down 
the middle to create 
8 fillets
2 eggs, whisked
1/2 cup cornstarch
11/2 cups canola oil1. In a bowl, combine the garlic, tomato,  cilantro, 
lime juice, olive oil, and 1 teaspoon of salt. 
Set aside.
2. Place the fish in a large bowl and add the eggs, 
mixing to coat.
3. Place the cornstarch in a shallow bowl. Dredge 
each piece of fish until well-coated.
4. In a Dutch oven, pour in the canola oil and heat 
on high to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer 
to check the temperature.
5. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding 
the pot, add the fish and fry on each side for 
4 minutes, or until golden brown. Transfer to 
paper towels to drain. Season with the remain -
ing 1 teaspoon of salt while hot.
6. Serve the fish on a plate and spoon salsa over it.
SWAP IT:  For the salsa, add mangos and sugar for a 
tropical twist. If fresh tilapia can’t be found, use frozen 
and defrost before frying.MATCHA LADYFINGER PARFAIT, PAGE 145141
NINE
Dessert
•
Fried Banana with Ice Cream 143
Mango Sticky Rice 144
Matcha Ladyfinger Parfait 145
Pineapple Yakult Ice Pops 146
Peanut Butter Milk Toast 147
Pumpkin Rice Cake 148
Steamed Cupcake 149
Filipino Chocolate Rice Pudding (Champorado) 150
Grass Jelly Almond Ice-Cream Float 151
Honeydew Sago 152142 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKIn Asian cuisine, dessert is often enjoyed in between meals  
as a snack instead of a last course. Desserts also serve a purpose.  
In hotter Southeast Asian climates, desserts are largely liquid-based, 
made with beans, herbs, and fruit—a combination that helps cool 
down the body from heat and replenish fluids. In northern regions 
of Asia, desserts are served hot, steamed, fried, or boiled into soups 
to keep the body warm and the blood flowing. In the United States, 
dessert completes a meal and pleases the taste buds. This explains 
why the ingredients used to make desserts vary greatly between 
Asia and the West. Asians rely heavily on healthy ingredients such 
as glutinous rice, tapioca, beans, fruit, and coconut milk. m any of 
the recipes in this chapter are gluten-free and egg-free, perfect for 
plant-based diets.
FUN ASIAN FOOD FACT
Ice cream is thought to have been invented by the  Chinese back in 
200 BCE. The Chinese King Tang of Shang had his men mix ice with 
milk and freeze it by packing it in snow, creating the first version of ice 
cream. The Chinese are also believed to have created the first ice-cream 
machine. They filled pots with a syrupy concoction, which was then 
packed in vessels filled with snow and salt. When Marco Polo learned 
about this delightful creation, he brought it from China to Italy, where 
they put their own spin on it: gelato. Even though ice cream was invented 
in China, Chinese cuisine is not known for its ice cream. In the last few 
years, Asian flavors such as lychee, matcha, Thai tea, and coconut are 
becoming popular. Try our Pumpkin Rice Cake (page 148) with vanilla 
ice cream and cinnamon powder or a scoop of chocolate ice cream over 
Peanut Butter Milk Toast (page 147).143 DESSERT 143 DESSERTTHAI
Fried Banana with Ice Cream
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Fried banana is a popular dessert and street food snack in Thailand and in 
other Southeast Asian countries. A light, airy, crispy batter wrapped around the 
soft, sweet, custard-like banana tastes incredible with a spoonful of cold ice 
cream. This dessert was an easy import into the United States, as banana is a 
household staple.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
4 soft ripe bananas
1 egg
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup cornstarch
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup dried 
shredded coconut
2 cups canola oil or 
peanut oil
1/4 cup rice flour
1 pint coconut ice cream1. Peel the bananas and cut crosswise into 3 equal 
sections, then halve each piece lengthwise.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the egg, 
baking soda, water, cornstarch, sugar, and coco -
nut until a smooth batter forms.
3. In a Dutch oven, pour in the oil and heat on 
high to 350°F . Use a deep-fry thermometer to 
check the temperature.
4. Place the rice flour in a shallow bowl. Coat each 
banana piece in the flour, then dredge them in 
the batter.
5. Working in batches to avoid overcrowding the 
pot, add the banana and fry until golden brown, 
about 2 minutes. Transfer to paper towels 
to drain.
6. Serve warm with a side of coconut ice cream.
SWAP IT:  Swap coconut ice cream for vanilla 
or chocolate.144 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 144 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKTHAI
Mango Sticky Rice
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
TAKEOUT FAVORITE
This is probably the most iconic Thai dessert. What’s not to love about this 
dish? Just think of it as a stickier version of rice pudding served with sweet, 
tart mangos. It’s available for delivery at many Thai restaurants but is best 
when fresh made, straight off the stove.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  30 minutes
COOK TIME:  45 minutes
1 cup glutinous rice
11/2 cups water, divided
1 (13-ounce) can full-fat 
coconut milk, divided
4 tablespoons 
sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 ripe mangos, peeled and 
sliced thin1. In a saucepot, soak the rice in 1 cup of water for 
30 minutes.
2. Place the pot over high heat. Add the remain -
ing 1/2 cup of water, half the coconut milk, 
1 tablespoon of sugar, and the salt and bring 
to a boil. Stir twice, reduce the heat to low, and 
cover, leaving a small opening where steam can 
escape. Cook for 30 minutes.
3. Remove from the heat, cover fully, and set aside 
to steam for 10 minutes.
4. In a separate saucepan over medium heat, com -
bine the remaining half of the coconut milk and 
3 tablespoons of sugar and cook for 5 minutes.
5. Place a scoop of coconut rice in a shallow bowl, 
drape 4 to 6 slices of mango over the rice, and 
drizzle the coconut sauce on top. Serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Fresh mangos and glutinous rice 
can be found at Asian markets. If mangos are not in 
season, use thawed frozen mango.145 DESSERT 145 DESSERTJAPANESE
Matcha Ladyfinger Parfait
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Japanese matcha is traditionally enjoyed at tea ceremonies where the prepa -
ration, serving, and drinking of the green tea becomes a form of meditative 
enjoyment. Matcha drinks have become quite the rage in the United States. 
Many specialty coffee shops now offer matcha lattes. This grassy, herbaceous 
powder works great in desserts.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  15 minutes
11/2 cups strawberries, 
diced, plus more 
for garnish
7 tablespoons 
sugar, divided
2 teaspoons 
matcha powder
2 cups heavy 
(whipping) cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
12 ladyfingers, crumbled, 
plus more for garnish1. In a small bowl, marinate the strawberries with 
3 tablespoons of sugar. Set aside while you 
make the whipped cream.
2. Combine the matcha, cream, vanilla, and 
remaining 4 tablespoons of sugar in a blender. 
Pulse for 20 seconds, or until the liquid 
becomes a firm whipped cream. To test, turn 
the blender upside down. If the cream stays put, 
it’s done.
3. Use small bowls or glasses to assemble. Layer 
the ladyfingers on the bottom. Top with the 
strawberries, then cover with matcha whipped 
cream. Garnish with more ladyfingers and 
strawberries and serve.
SWAP IT:  Canned peaches are great if strawber -
ries are not in season. If ladyfingers can’t be found, 
use Nilla Wafers dipped in heavy (whipping) cream 
before layering.146 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 146 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKJAPANESE
Pineapple Yakult Ice Pops
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS
Yakult is a sweetened and slightly tart fermented probiotic beverage with 
Lactobacillus , the same bacteria found in yogurt, invented in Japan in 1930. 
This mini, one-size beverage has a distinctive red foil seal that is easily recog -
nizable and is widely popular in Asia. It was introduced to the United States in 
1999. Now you can buy it at Costco, Asian markets, and online.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes, 
plus overnight to freeze
4 bottles Yakult
1 (20-ounce) can 
pineapple chunks1. In a blender, combine the Yakult and half of the 
pineapple and pulse to combine.
2. Fill 4 to 6 ice pop molds halfway with the Yakult 
mixture. Add the pineapple chunks and then 
more Yakult until the molds are filled.
3. Freeze overnight, then serve.
SERVING TIP:  If you don’t own ice pop molds, use 
disposable paper cups or clean yogurt cups. Place a 
wooden stick in after the liquid has been poured in, and 
then freeze.147 DESSERT 147 DESSERTCHINESE
Peanut Butter Milk Toast
SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS   •  FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Toast with condensed milk ( cha chaan teng ) is a common item at Hong Kong 
cafés. It’s usually enjoyed with milk tea as an afternoon snack. Here in the 
United States, where the dish has taken on a life of its own, Hong Kong–style 
dessert cafés serve this type of toast with different toppings, such as ice cream, 
fruit, chocolate sauce, or whipped cream.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  5 minutes
8 tablespoons 
peanut butter
4 slices thick-cut 
milk bread
8 tablespoons 
condensed milk1. Spread 2 tablespoons of peanut butter on each 
slice of bread.
2. Toast the bread in the oven for medium done -
ness, about 4 minutes.
3. Remove the toast, plate it, and drizzle each slice 
with 2 tablespoons of condensed milk. Serve.
SWAP IT:  If Japanese-style milk bread can’t be found, 
use Texas toast. The key is using thick slices of bread.148 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 148 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKCHINESE
Pumpkin Rice Cake
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This is a take on a traditional Chinese dessert, which is made with kabocha  
squash, a Japanese pumpkin. These soft, sticky, chewy pancakes coated in 
sesame seeds are eaten warm and enjoyed during celebratory events. Here, we 
use Western pumpkin and swap out the sesame seeds for powdered sugar. It’s 
a great gluten-free alternative to pancakes, and with powdered sugar and a 
dollop of ice cream, it makes for a great dessert.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
COOK TIME:  8 minutes
7 ounces canned 
pumpkin puree
2 cups glutinous rice flour
2 1/2 teaspoons 
granulated sugar
1/4 cup peanut oil, divided
1/4 cup powdered sugar1. In a medium bowl, using a fork, mix together 
the pumpkin, flour, granulated sugar, and 
3 tablespoons of oil. Once incorporated, 
use your hands to knead the mixture into a 
smooth dough.
2. Form the dough into golf ball–size balls. With 
the palms of your hands, press each ball into a 
1/2-inch-thick disk.
3. In a large nonstick sauté pan, pour in the 
remaining 1 tablespoon of oil and heat on high. 
Add the disks, then reduce the heat to medium 
and pan-fry for 2 minutes on each side, or until 
golden brown.
4. Transfer the pancakes to serving plates. 
Using a sieve, dust the powdered sugar on top 
and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Glutinous rice flour can be found 
in Asian markets and online. It adds a sticky and chewy 
consistency to pancakes and is a common flour used in 
Asian desserts.149 DESSERT 149 DESSERTCHINESE
Steamed Cupcake
NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Baking desserts in an oven is not a cooking technique used in Asian cuisines, 
which explains why many of their desserts are steamed, boiled, or fried. 
Steamed cupcakes may sound difficult to master, but it’s actually one of the 
easiest desserts you can make. It’s light, fluffy, and moist, but also slightly 
chewy. It’s a great alternative to the denser-style American cupcakes.
MAKES 16 cupcakes
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  20 minutes
1 box yellow cake mix, such 
as Betty Crocker
1 cup glutinous rice flour
2 tablespoons toasted 
sesame seeds1. Line 16 individual cupcake tins with liners.
2. Follow the instructions on the cake mix box, 
but mix for only 1 minute. Then add the 
glutinous flour and mix for 1 minute. Do 
not overmix.
3. Using an ice-cream scoop, fill each prepared tin 
about halfway (do not fill to the top). Sprinkle 
sesame seeds on top.
4. Fill a pot halfway with water and bring to a 
boil over high heat. Working in two batches, 
arrange the cupcakes on a steaming rack, place 
in the pot, cover, and steam for 20 minutes. 
Serve warm.
SERVING TIP:  Unlike cupcakes baked in the oven 
where the top is smooth and round, steamed cupcakes 
with glutinous flour will produce a top that blossoms 
like a flower. To play into the flower cupcake look, use 
food coloring to make different colored cupcakes.150 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 150 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKFILIPINO
Filipino Chocolate Rice 
Pudding (Champorado)
GLUTEN-FREE   •  NUT-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
During the Galleon Trade, Mexican traders introduced the Philippines to a 
Mexican hot chocolate called champurrado . Filipinos adopted this drink and 
added the rice component to make a new dish. In the Philippines, this dish is 
eaten as breakfast and sometimes as a snack. But here in the United States, 
it’s been introduced as a delicious dessert.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  25 minutes
2 cups glutinous rice
41/2 cups water
1 cup cocoa powder
1 cup sugar
1 cup evaporated milk1. Rinse the rice under water, then place in a large 
nonstick saucepan and heat on high.
2. Add the water and bring to a boil. Then imme -
diately reduce the heat to low and cook for 
20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
3. Add the cocoa powder and sugar and whisk 
for 2 minutes, or until fully dissolved 
and incorporated.
4. Remove from the heat and let it sit for 
40 minutes, or until it’s cooled enough to eat.
5. Serve in small bowls and top with the 
evaporated milk.
SERVING TIP:  The pudding can be refrigerated for 
3 days and enjoyed cold or reheated.151 DESSERT 151 DESSERTVIETNAMESE
Grass Jelly Almond  
Ice-Cream Float
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
This refreshing drink is enjoyed as a snack, a dessert, and sometimes even as 
a complement to a main dish. Grass jelly has a cooling, minty, herbal taste, 
which complements creamy and sweet combinations. It’s become a common 
topping for boba drinks in the United States. This version is a play on an 
ice-cream float. The addition of ice cream makes it more American but also 
adds decadence.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  10 minutes
1 (24-ounce) can grass 
jelly, cubed
4 cups vanilla almond milk
4 scoops of vanilla 
ice cream1. Divide the grass jelly among 4 tall glasses, filling 
only halfway.
2. Pour the almond milk into each glass until 
three-fourths full.
3. Top with a scoop of ice cream. Enjoy with a 
straw and long spoon.
SERVING TIP:  This dessert is to be enjoyed with 
a spoon, so you can taste the jelly along with the ice 
cream and milk. Once the ice cream melts down a bit, 
sip with a straw to finish off the dessert.152 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOK 152 EASY ASIAN COOKBOOKSINGAPOREAN
Honeydew Sago
GLUTEN-FREE   •  SOY-FREE   •  VEGETARIAN   •  5 INGREDIENTS  
FASTER THAN DELIVERY
Sago desserts are common in Southeast Asia. These slightly chewy but soft, 
smooth pearls have made their way into America’s tummies through delicious 
Asian American desserts and drinks as well as through Europe and Brazil, 
where they’re used in puddings.
SERVES 4
PREP TIME:  5 minutes
COOK TIME:  30 minutes
4 cups water
1/2 cup small dry sago
1 cup full-fat coconut milk
1/2 can evaporated milk
1 small honeydew melon
1 cup condensed milk1. In a saucepot, bring the water to a boil over 
high heat. Then reduce the heat to medium, add 
the sago, and bring to a simmer. Stir, cover, and 
simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally to 
prevent the sago from sticking to the bottom.
2. Remove from the heat, stir again, then cover 
and set aside for 15 minutes, until the sago 
is translucent.
3. Strain the sago in a sieve and rinse with cold 
water to wash off residual starch. Divide the 
sago into small bowls.
4. In a medium bowl, whisk together the coconut 
milk and evaporated milk. Pour over the sago, 
filling the bowls three-quarters full.
5. With a melon baller, scoop 4 to 6 balls of honey -
dew into each bowl. Drizzle the condensed milk 
on top and serve.
INGREDIENT TIP:  Find sago at your local Asian 
market or buy it online. Depending on which sago  
you purchase, following instructions on the bag for 
cooking is advisable. The instructions above are only  
for small-size sago.155MENUS
•
Spicy Chinese
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 40 minutes  • COOK TIME: 1 hour
This menu is an ode to the cuisine of Northern China, specifically from the 
 Sichuan region. Cook up spicy mapo tofu and pan-sear some beautiful dumplings. 
These restaurant-quality dishes will wow any guests you entertain at home.
CHICKEN POT STICKERS (GUO ˉTIEˉ), page 26
MAPO TOFU WITH PORK,  page 120
GARLIC BOK CHOY ,  page 82
STEAMED RICE,  page 19
Sunday Supper Filipino Style
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 30 minutes, plus overnight for dessert  • COOK TIME: 1 hour
Finding new dishes to throw into your Sunday supper rotation can be chal -
lenging at times. But this Filipino-inspired menu is not only easy to master 
but also incredibly delicious. Crispy spring rolls paired with savory, tender 
stewed chicken over rice, followed by a decadent chocolate-based des -
sert sounds like a meal you would get at a restaurant and not at home. 
To save time in the kitchen, prepare the dessert the night before and chill. 
Wrap lumpias with your family while the chicken adobo and rice are cook -
ing. That way, everything can come out hot and fresh at the same time.
LUMPIA,  page 30
CHICKEN ADOBO,  page 108
STEAMED RICE,  page 19
FILIPINO CHOCOLATE RICE PUDDING  
(CHAMPORADO),  page 150156 mENUSVietnamese Brunch
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 1 hour  • COOK TIME: 30 minutes
Put a Southeast Asian twist on brunch with friends. Rather than the 
usual eggs, bacon, toast, and pancake offerings, try serving a unique 
brunch with eggs, vermicelli salad, and grass jelly. You’ve got some -
thing with eggs, something savory, and something sweet.
RICE NOODLES WITH SHRIMP (BÚN CHA ), page 44
GREEN BEAN OMELET,  page 91
GRASS JELLY ALMOND ICE-CREAM FLOAT,  page 151
Korean Barbecue Night
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 30 minutes, plus overnight to marinate  
COOK TIME:  40 minutes
This menu is great for an outdoor barbecue. To save time in the kitchen the 
day of the party, prepare the bean sprouts earlier in the day and store in 
the refrigerator to serve cold, marinate the short ribs the night before, and 
cook the japchae right before serving. You’ll be the star of the party!
SESAME BEAN SPROUTS,  page 88
SWEET AND SPICY KOREAN SHORT RIBS (GALBI),  page 125
JAPCHAE,  page 51
Japanese Happy Hour
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 1 hour  • COOK TIME: 40 minutes
The beauty of this menu is that it can be served buffet-style for a large 
group of friends. Prepare a large pot of ramen broth, then place top -
pings on the side so guests can build their own ramen bowls. Even the 
chicken karaage can be added as a topping to the ramen bowls. Serve 
edamame as a bar bite when guests arrive, alongside some nuts.
SALT AND PEPPER EDAMAME,  page 81
CHICKEN KARAAGE,  page 106
SHOYU PORK CORN RAMEN,  page 49157 mENUSThai Date Night
SERVES: 4 • PREP TIME: 20 minutes  • COOK TIME: 45 minutes
To keep things streamlined on your Thai-inspired date night, pre -
pare the soup ahead of time. Reheat it while you cook the drunken 
noodles, so both can be served at the same time. Once dinner is 
done, fry the bananas, as this dessert is best enjoyed hot.
THAI COCONUT SOUP (TOM KHA GAI),  page 67
DRUNKEN NOODLES WITH CHICKEN (PAD KEE MAO),  page 46
FRIED BANANA WITH ICE CREAM,  page 143
Pan-Asian Dinner
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 30 minutes  • COOK TIME: 1 hour 15 minutes
This flavorful menu is salty, savory, sweet, sticky, crispy, and creamy. Dinner is 
sure to excite your taste buds. Prepare the coconut rice and Cambodian pork 
first and let them simmer while you work on the crab rangoon. After wrap -
ping and frying the rangoon, your rice and pork should be close to done.
CRAB RANGOON,  page 34
CAMBODIAN PORK CURRY ,  page 71
COCONUT STICKY RICE,  page 47
Vegetarian Feast
SERVES 4 • PREP TIME: 30 minutes  • COOK TIME: 30 minutes
This vegetarian feast is delicious hot or cold. Prepare extras so 
you can have leftovers. Pack up in bento boxes and enjoy cold for 
lunch at work. These flavors absorb beautifully when left over -
night and are just as tasty when eaten the next day.
GREEN PAPAYA SALAD (SOM TUM),  page 93
CRISPY TOFU WITH PEANUT SAUCE,  page 95
DRY-BRAISED GREEN BEANS WITH MUSHROOMS,  page 85158MEASUREMENT  
CONVERSIONS
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (LIQUID)
US STANDARDUS STANDARD  
(OUNCES)METRIC  
(APPROX.)
2 tablespoons   1 fl. oz.  30 mL
¼ cup   2 fl. oz.  60 mL
½ cup   4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup   8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1½ cups  12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint  16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart  32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (DRY)
US STANDARDMETRIC  
(APPROX.)
⅛ teaspoon          0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon   1 mL
½ teaspoon   2 mL
¾ teaspoon   4 mL
1 teaspoon   5 mL
1 tablespoon  15 mL
¼ cup  59 mL
⅓ cup  79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 LOVEN TEMPERATURES
FAHRENHEIT  
(F)CELSIUS (C)  
(APPROX.)
250° 120°
300° 150°
325° 165°
350° 180°
375° 190°
400° 200°
425° 220°
450° 230°
WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
US  
STANDARDMETRIC  
(APPROX.)
½ ounce  15 g
1 ounce  30 g
2 ounces  60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces  
or 1 pound455 g159RESOURCES
•
Brown, Tanner. “China’s Pork Crisis Is Bigger Than You Think.”  
MarketWatch. November 16, 2019. MarketWatch.com/story/chinas  
-pork-crisis-is-bigger-than-you-think-2019-11-11. 
Budiman, Abby, Anthony Cilluffo, and Neil G Ruiz. “Key Facts about 
Asian Origin Groups in the US.” Pew Research Center. May 22, 2019. 
PewResearch.org/fact-tank/2019/05/22/key-facts-about-asian  
-origin-groups-in-the-u-s.
Chang, K. C. “Food in Chinese Culture.” Asia Blog . Asia Society, September 2, 
2008. AsiaSociety.org/blog/asia/food-chinese-culture.
Cruz, Heidi. “Gyudon: Beef Bowl.” All in Japan  (Blog). January 6, 2013. 
AllInJapan.org/gyudon-beef-bowl.
Davison, Gary Marvin, and Barbara E. Reed. Culture and Customs of 
Taiwan . Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Publishing Group, 1998.
Jiahui, Sun. “The Making of Mapo Tofu.” China Daily . Last Modified  
September 6, 2015. chinadaily.com.cn/kindle/2015-09/06/content_  
21798522.htm.
Jones, Nicholas A. The Asian Population in the United States: Results from 
the 2010 Census . US Census Bureau. May 2, 2012. SSA.gov/people/aapi  
/materials/pdfs/2010census-data.pdf.
Lee, Hang-Shuen. “Healthy Eating in Traditional Chinese Medicine.”  
DW Akademie. January 18, 2019. DW.com/en/healthy-eating-in  
-traditional-chinese-medicine/a-18619239.160 RESOURCESLewis, Danny. “British Monks Discovered a Curry Recipe in a 200-Year 
Old Cookbook.” Smithsonian Magazine . February 5, 2016.  
SmithsonianMag.com/smart-news/british-monks-discovered  
-curry-recipe-200-year-old-cookbook-180957979.
Ma, Guansheng. “Food, Eating Behavior, and Culture in Chinese Soci -
ety.” Journal of Ethnic Foods  2, no. 4 (December 2015): 195–99, DOI.
org/10.1016/j.jef.2015.11.004.
Nelson, Angela. “5 Things You Never Knew about Wasabi.” Mother Nature 
Network. September 26, 2016. MNN.com/food/healthy-eating/stories  
/things-you-never-knew-about-wasabi.
Papademetriou, M.K. “Rice Production in The Asia-Pacific Region: Issues 
and Perspectives.” Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations. Accessed February 25, 2020. FAO.org/3/x6905e/x6905e04.htm.
Pew Research Center. “Thai in the US Fact Sheet.” September 8, 2017. 
PewSocialTrends.org/fact-sheet/asian-americans-thai-in-the-u-s.
Pew Research Center. “Top US Metropolitan Areas by Korean Population.” 
September 8, 2017. PewSocialTrends.org/chart/top-10-u-s-metropolitan  
-areas-by-korean-population.
Proximity One. “America’s Asian Population Demographic Patterns and 
Trends.” Accessed February 25, 2020. ProximityOne.com/asian  
_demographics.htm.
Roman, Brent, and Susan Russell. “Southeast Asian Food and Culture.” 
Lesson plan, Northern Illinois University, Dekalb, Illinois, November 16, 
2009. NIU.edu/cseas/_pdf/lesson-plans/k-12/southeast-asian-food  
-culture.pdf.
Shurtleff, William, and Akiki Aoyagi. “History of Tofu.” SoyInfo Center. 
Accessed February 25, 2020. SoyInfoCenter.com/HSS/tofu1.php.161 RESOURCESSul, Sean. “Delicious Roots: The Story of Budae Jjigae.” Kimchee Guest -
house. December 1, 2016. KimcheeGuestHouse.com/delicious-roots  
-story-budae-jjigae.
Wertz, Richard R. “Regional Cuisine.” Cultural Heritage of China. 
Accessed February 25, 2020. iBiblio.org/chineseculture/contents/food  
/p-food-c01s03.html.
World Population Review. “Honolulu, Hawaii Population 2020.” Accessed 
February 25, 2020. WorldPopulationReview.com/us-cities/honolulu  
-population.
Zong, Jie, and Jeanne Batalova. “Filipino Immigrants in the United 
States.” Migration Policy Institute. March 14, 2018. MigrationPolicy.org  
/article/filipino-immigrants-united-states.162INDEX
•
A
Appetizers, 24
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Crab Rangoon, 34
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes, 32
Lumpia, 30
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Shrimp Toast, 28
Street-Style Chicken  
Satay, 29
Apples
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
Asian cuisine, 1–3, 6, 20–21, 38. 
See also  specific countries
B
Bacon, Spicy Twice-Cooked, 119
Banana, Fried, with  
Ice Cream, 143
Bean sprouts
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Beef. See also  Hot dogs
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Mongolian Beef, 117
Shaking Beef  
(Bo Luc Lac), 122Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi), 125
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Berries
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Black vinegar (chinkiang), 11
Boiling, 16
Bok choy
Chicken Kare Kare, 65
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Braising, 16
Broccoli
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Brussels Sprouts, 
Caramelized, 90
C
Cabbage. See also  Kimchi
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Calamari, Salt and Pepper, 130
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Carrots
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Lumpia, 30
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Catfish
Fish in Caramel Sauce 
(Ca Kho To), 136
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Chicken, 100
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken Fat Rice, 48
Chicken Karaage, 106
Chicken Kare Kare, 65
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao), 46
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Hainan Chicken and Rice, 107
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mint Chicken, 110
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Chile flakes, dried, 9
Chile oil, 9163 INDEXChile powder, 9
Chiles
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Thai Basil Chicken  
(Pad Kra Pao Gai), 109
Chinese cuisine, 3, 7, 20–21
Chocolate Rice  
Pudding, Filipino  
(Champorado), 150
Chopsticks, 14
Clams
Coconut Clams with 
Lime, 137
Laksa Soup, 74
Clay pots, 14
Coconut
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Coconut milk, 9
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Coconut Clams with 
Lime, 137
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Honeydew Sago, 152
Laksa Soup, 74
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Red Lentil Curry  
(Parripu), 96
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Cooking techniques, 16–17
Corn
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Firecracker Corn, 83
Cornstarch, 9
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Crab Rangoon, 34
Cream cheese
Crab Rangoon, 34
Crispy Tofu with Peanut 
Sauce, 95Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Curries, 58
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Curry paste, 11
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
D
Daly City, CA, 7
Deep-frying, 16
Desserts, 142
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Honeydew Sago, 152
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Drunken Noodles with Chicken 
(Pad Kee Mao), 46
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
E
Edamame, Salt and Pepper, 81
Eggplant with Green Curry, 92
Eggs
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Green Bean Omelet, 91
Mie Goreng, 53Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Okra and Eggs, 94
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Salt and Pepper Calamari, 130
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Equipment, 14–15
F
Faster than delivery
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken Fat Rice, 48
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Coconut Clams with 
Lime, 137
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Crab Rangoon, 34
Crispy Tofu with 
Peanut Sauce, 95
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao), 46
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Firecracker Corn, 83
Fish in Caramel Sauce 
(Ca Kho To), 136164 INDEXFried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Green Bean Omelet, 91
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Hibachi Garlic Prawns, 133
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Honeydew Sago, 152
Japchae, 51
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes, 32
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Laksa Soup, 74
Lumpia, 30
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Mie Goreng, 53
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mint Chicken, 110
Miso Soup, 69
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Mongolian Beef, 117
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Okra and Eggs, 94
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Shrimp Toast, 28
Sichuan Lamb with 
Scallions, 116
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Spicy Twice-Cooked 
Bacon, 119
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Steamed Scallops with 
Ginger and Scallions, 129
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
Wasabi Soy Salmon, 132
Wonton Soup, 61
Filipino Chocolate Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Filipino cuisine, 3–4, 7, 20–21
Firecracker Corn, 83
Fish, 128
Fish in Caramel Sauce 
(Ca Kho To), 136
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
Wasabi Soy Salmon, 132
Fish sauce, 10
5 ingredients
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Crab Rangoon, 34
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Firecracker Corn, 83
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Honeydew Sago, 152
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Miso Soup, 69
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Steamed Scallops with 
Ginger and Scallions, 129
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Wonton Soup, 61
Fried Banana with Ice 
Cream, 143
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Frying, 16
G
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Gluten-free
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84Faster than delivery ( continued )165 INDEXDry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Firecracker Corn, 83
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Hainan Chicken and Rice, 107
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Honeydew Sago, 152
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Laksa Soup, 74
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Okra and Eggs, 94
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Steamed Rice, 19Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Gochujang, 11
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Green beans
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Green Bean Omelet, 91
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
H
Hainan Chicken and Rice, 107
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Hibachi Garlic Prawns, 133
Hoisin sauce, 10
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Honeydew Sago, 152
Honolulu, HI, 8
Hot dogs
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
I
Ice cream, 142
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
J
Japanese cuisine, 5–6, 8, 20–21
Japchae, 51
K
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Kimchi, 11
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes, 32
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Korean cuisine, 4–5, 7, 20–21Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
L
Laksa Soup, 74
Lamb
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Sichuan Lamb with 
Scallions, 116
Lemongrass
Lemongrass Pork Chops 
(Thit Heo Nuong Xa), 121
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
paste, 12
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Lentils
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Lettuce
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Los Angeles, CA, 7, 8
Lumpia, 30
M
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Mandolines, 14
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Matcha Ladyfinger Parfait, 145
Melons
Honeydew Sago, 152
Menus, 155–157
Mie Goreng, 53
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mint Chicken, 110166 INDEXMirin, 12
Miso, 12
Miso Soup, 69
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Mongolian Beef, 117
Mushrooms
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Japchae, 51
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
N
New York, NY, 7
Noodles, 10, 38
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao), 46
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Japchae, 51
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Mie Goreng, 53
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Nut-free
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken Fat Rice, 48
Chicken Karaage, 106
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Coconut Clams with 
Lime, 137
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79Crab Fried Rice, 45
Crab Rangoon, 34
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Drunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao), 46
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Firecracker Corn, 83
Fish in Caramel Sauce 
(Ca Kho To), 136
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Green Bean Omelet, 91
Hainan Chicken and Rice, 107
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Hibachi Garlic Prawns, 133
Japchae, 51
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes, 32
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Laksa Soup, 74
Lemongrass Pork Chops 
(Thit Heo Nuong Xa), 121
Lumpia, 30
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Mie Goreng, 53
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mint Chicken, 110
Miso Soup, 69
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Mongolian Beef, 117
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66Okra and Eggs, 94
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper  
Edamame, 81
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Shaking Beef (Bo 
Luc Lac), 122
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Shrimp Toast, 28
Sichuan Lamb with 
Scallions, 116
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Spicy Twice-Cooked 
Bacon, 119
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Steamed Scallops with 
Ginger and Scallions, 129
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi), 125
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Wasabi Soy Salmon, 132
Wonton Soup, 61167 INDEXNuts
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
O
Okra
Okra and Eggs, 94
Sinigang, 64
One pot/one pan
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Firecracker Corn, 83
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Miso Soup, 69
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Red Lentil Curry  
(Parripu), 96
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Spicy Twice-Cooked 
Bacon, 119
Street-Style Chicken  
Satay, 29
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Orange County, CA, 7
Oyster sauce, 12P
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Pan-Fried Black Pepper Tofu, 86
Pan-frying, 16
Pantry staples, 9–12
Papaya Salad, Green 
(Som Tum), 93
Peanut butter
Chicken Kare Kare, 65
Crispy Tofu with 
Peanut Sauce, 95
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Pears
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Peas
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Peppers
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Japchae, 51
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Pineapple
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi), 125
Pineapple Yakult Ice Pops, 146
Pork, 13, 114. See also  Bacon; 
Sausage; Spam
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
Lemongrass Pork Chops 
(Thit Heo Nuong Xa), 121
Lumpia, 30
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49Sinigang, 64
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Wonton Soup, 61
Potatoes
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Prawns
Hibachi Garlic Prawns, 133
Laksa Soup, 74
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
R
Radishes
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Recipes, about, 18
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Rice, 10, 13, 38
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Chicken Fat Rice, 48
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Hainan Chicken and Rice, 107
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Steamed Rice, 19
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Rice cookers, 15
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
S
Saigon Shrimp Spring Rolls, 31
Sake, 12
Salads
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Salmon, Wasabi Soy, 132
Salt and Pepper Calamari, 130168 INDEXSalt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sausage
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Scallops, Steamed, with Ginger 
and Scallions, 129
Seafood, 128. See also  specific
Seasonal eating, 115
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame oil, 10, 13
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Shaking Beef (Bo Luc Lac), 122
Shallow-frying, 16
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Shrimp
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
paste, 12
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Shrimp Toast, 28
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Sichuan Lamb with 
Scallions, 116
Sinigang, 64
Soups, 58. See also  Stews
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Laksa Soup, 74
Miso Soup, 69
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Wonton Soup, 61
Soy sauce, 10, 11
Soy-free
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Honeydew Sago, 152
Korean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Lumpia, 30
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Okra and Eggs, 94
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Lentil Curry (Parripu), 96
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Spam
Egg Spam Macaroni Soup, 41
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Spicy Twice-Cooked Bacon, 119
Spinach
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Japchae, 51
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Sriracha, 10
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Steamed Scallops with Ginger 
and Scallions, 129
Steamer stacks, 15
Steaming, 17
Stews. See also  Curries
Chicken Kare Kare, 65
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Sinigang, 64
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Stir-frying, 17
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Substitutions, 11–12
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi), 125
T
Takeout favorite
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Crab Rangoon, 34169 INDEXDrunken Noodles with 
Chicken (Pad Kee Mao), 46
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Japchae, 51
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Laksa Soup, 74
Lumpia, 30
Malaysian Lamb Rendang, 73
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Mie Goreng, 53
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mint Chicken, 110
Miso Soup, 69
Mongolian Beef, 117
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Red Lentil Curry  
(Parripu), 96
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Salt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Shaking Beef (Bo 
Luc Lac), 122
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Shrimp Toast, 28
Steamed Rice, 19
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Street-Style Chicken Satay, 29
Sweet and Sour Chicken, 102
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Thai Coconut Soup 
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Wonton Soup, 61
Tamarind paste, 12
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109Thai Coconut Soup (Tom 
Kha Gai), 67
Thai cuisine, 6, 8, 20–21
Tilapia, Fried, with Salsa, 138
Tofu, 78
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Crispy Tofu with 
Peanut Sauce, 95
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Miso Soup, 69
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Tomatoes
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Mie Goreng, 53
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Okra and Eggs, 94
Sinigang, 64
Tools, 14–15
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
Turmeric powder, 11
V
Vegetables, 78. See also  specific
Vegetarian
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Crispy Tofu with 
Peanut Sauce, 95
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Firecracker Corn, 83
Fried Banana with 
Ice Cream, 143
Garlic Bok Choy, 82
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151Honeydew Sago, 152
Japchae, 51
Kimchi Scallion Pancakes, 32
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Miso Soup, 69
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Pan-Fried Black 
Pepper Tofu, 86
Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pineapple Yakult 
Ice Pops, 146
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Lentil Curry  
(Parripu), 96
Salt and Pepper Edamame, 81
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Vegetarian Feast Menu, 157
Vietnamese Pickled 
Carrots (Do Chua), 89
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Vietnamese cuisine, 4, 7, 20–21
Vietnamese Pickled Carrots 
(Do Chua), 89
W
Wasabi Soy Salmon, 132
Woks, 15
Wontons, 24
Crab Rangoon, 34
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Wonton Soup, 61
Z
Zucchini
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27170COUNTRY OF  
ORIGIN INDEX
•
CAMBODIA
Cambodian Pork Curry, 71
CHINA
Beef and Broccoli, 118
Chicken Chow Mein, 39
Chicken Corn Soup, 60
Chicken Pot Stickers 
(Guōtiē), 26
Chicken with Green Beans 
in Garlic Sauce, 104
Crab Rangoon, 34
Cumin-Spiced Potato, 84
Dry-Braised Green Beans 
with Mushrooms, 85
Egg Flower Soup  
(Dàn Huā Tāng), 59
Egg Spam Macaroni 
Soup, 41
Firecracker Corn, 83
Garlic Bock Choy, 82
Honey Walnut Shrimp, 131
Kung Pao Chicken, 103
Mapo Tofu with Pork, 120
Minced Beef over Rice, 42
Minced Chicken Lettuce 
Wraps, 27
Mixed Vegetable Stir-Fry, 87
Mongolian Beef, 117
Pan-Fried Black Pepper 
Tofu, 86Peanut Butter Milk 
Toast, 147
Pumpkin Rice Cake, 148
Red Oil Tossed Pork 
Wontons, 25
Salt and Pepper 
Calamari, 130
Salt and Pepper Wings, 101
Shrimp Toast, 28
Sichuan Lamb with 
Scallions, 116
Spicy Chinese Menu, 155
Spicy Dandan Noodles, 40
Spicy Twice-Cooked 
Bacon, 119
Steamed Cupcake, 149
Steamed Rice, 19
Steamed Scallops 
with Ginger and 
Scallions, 129
Sweet and Sour 
Chicken, 102
Wonton Soup, 61
HAWAII
Tuna Poke Bowl, 134
INDONESIA
Crispy Tofu with Peanut 
Sauce, 95
Mie Goreng, 53Street-Style Chicken 
Satay, 29
JAPAN
Beef Bowl (Gyūdon), 50
Chicken Karaage, 106
Chicken Katsu Curry, 70
Cold Tofu with Scallions, 79
Hibachi Garlic Prawns, 133
Japanese Happy Hour 
Menu, 156
Matcha Ladyfinger 
Parfait, 145
Miso Soup, 69
Pineapple Yakult Ice 
Pops, 146
Salt and Pepper 
Edamame, 81
Sesame Spinach (Gomae), 80
Shoyu Pork Corn Ramen, 49
Teriyaki Chicken, 105
Wasabi Soy Salmon, 132
KOREA
Japchae, 51
Kimchi Army Stew, 63
Kimchi Scallion 
Pancakes, 32
Korean Barbecue Night 
Menu, 156171 COUNTRY Of ORIGIN INDEXKorean Short Rib Soup 
(Galbitang), 62
Pork Bulgogi, 124
Sesame Bean Sprouts, 88
Street Dog Bibimbap, 52
Sweet and Spicy Korean 
Short Ribs (Galbi), 125
MALAYSIA
Laksa Soup, 74
Malaysian Lamb 
Rendang, 73
MYANMAR
Curry Potato Samosas, 33
Mint Chicken, 110
Myanmarese Fish Chowder 
(Mohinga), 66
Okra and Eggs, 94
PHILIPPINES
Chicken Adobo, 108
Chicken Kare Kare, 65
Filipino Chocolate 
Rice Pudding 
(Champorado), 150
Fried Tilapia with Salsa, 138
Lumpia, 30
Sinigang, 64
Sunday Supper Filipino 
Style Menu, 155Singapore
Chicken Fat Rice, 48
Hainan Chicken and 
Rice, 107
Honeydew Sago, 152
SRI LANKA
Red Lentil Curry 
(Parripu), 96
THAILAND
Coconut Clams with 
Lime, 137
Coconut Sticky Rice, 47
Crab Fried Rice, 45
Eggplant with Green 
Curry, 92
Fried Banana with Ice 
Cream, 143
Green Papaya Salad 
(Som Tum), 93
Mango Sticky Rice, 144
Massaman Beef Curry, 68
Pad Thai with Tofu, 54
Spicy Pork Patties, 123
Thai Basil Chicken (Pad 
Kra Pao Gai), 109
Thai Coconut Soup  
(Tom Kha Gai), 67
Thai Date Night Menu, 157VIETNAM
Caramelized Brussels 
Sprouts, 90
Drunken Noodles 
with Chicken (Pad 
Kee Mao), 46
Fish in Caramel Sauce 
(Ca Kho To), 136
Grass Jelly Almond 
Ice-Cream Float, 151
Green Bean Omelet, 91
Hanoi Chicken Pho, 43
Lemongrass Pork Chops  
(Thit Heo Nuong 
Xa), 121
Rice Noodles with Shrimp 
(Bún Cha ̉), 44
Saigon Shrimp Spring 
Rolls, 31
Shaking Beef (Bo Luc 
Lac), 122
Sugarcane Shrimp, 135
Vietnamese Beef Stew 
(Bò Kho), 72
Vietnamese Brunch 
Menu, 156
Vietnamese Pickled Carrots 
(Do Chua), 89ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
•
I want to thank  the following people who made it possible for me to 
write this book.
My father, Peter Fang, who has guided me, supported me, and taught 
me to become the chef and businesswoman that I am today. I wouldn’t be 
where I am today if it weren’t for my biggest role model.
My mother, Lily Fang, for showing me what hard work and devotion 
mean when it comes to being a mother, wife, and business partner. She’s 
an inspiration.
My husband, Caleb Sima, for always pushing me to do more and 
never settling for less. For supporting me in every way possible when  
I needed it the most, whether at work or at home.
My PR Team at Glodow Nead—Sonia, Carly, John, and Jeff—for 
helping me grow as a chef and brand, opening doors that have allowed me 
to share my voice, my passion, and food through various media outlets, 
from print to television and radio.
Tamara Palmer and Kathy Leong, for encouraging me to 
pursue writing.
Callisto Media, especially Arturo and Wesley, for giving me the 
incredible opportunity to do something I’ve always wanted to do: write 
a cookbook.
And, to my two babies, Ava and Neo. I hope this book will make you 
two proud and, if anything, inspire you two to cook and learn the impor -
tance food plays in our lives.ABOUT THE AUTHOR
•
Kathy Fang is a San Francisco native who grew up in the kitchen of her 
family’s restaurant, House of Nanking. She grew into adulthood as the 
co-owner and chef of Fang Restaurant with her father in 2009. Kathy 
blends her family’s Cantonese and Shanghainese heritage with a cooking 
style that inspires her to create sophisticated and multicultural cuisine. 
Now a rising star in the cooking world, Kathy teaches students to create 
easy and delicious dishes and has competed on different Food Network 
shows, including Cutthroat Kitchen , Guy’s Grocery Games , and Chopped , 
where she is a two-time champion.
