of Make:  magazine almost since the beginning)
shows us how to make a simple oil lamp, to
keep the night at bay.
Conventions Used in This
Book
This element signifies  a general
note, tip, or suggestion.
This element indicates a warning or
caution.
Safari® Books Online
Safari Books Online  is an on-demand digital li-
brary that delivers expert content  in both book
and video form from the world’s leading
authors in technology and business.
Technology professionals, software developers,
web designers, and business and creative pro-
fessionals use Safari Books Online as their pri-
mary resource for research, problem solving,
learning, and certification  training.
Safari Books Online offers  a range of plans and
pricing  for enterprise , government , education ,
and individuals.
Members have access to thousands of books,
training videos, and prepublication manu-
scripts in one fully searchable database from
publishers like Maker Media, O’Reilly Media,
Prentice Hall Professional, Addison-Wesley Pro-
fessional, Microsoft Press, Sams, Que, Peachpit
Press, Focal Press, Cisco Press, John Wiley &
Sons, Syngress, Morgan Kaufmann, IBM Red-
books, Packt, Adobe Press, FT Press, Apress,
Manning, New Riders, McGraw-Hill, Jones & Bar-
tlett, Course Technology, and hundreds more .For more information about Safari Books On-
line, please visit us online .
How to Contact Us
Please address comments and questions con-
cerning this book to the publisher:
Make:
1160 Battery Street East, Suite 125
San Francisco, CA 94111
877-306-6253 (in the United States or
Canada)
707-639-1355 (international or local)
Make: unites, inspires, informs, and entertains a
growing community of resourceful people who
undertake amazing projects in their backyards,
basements, and garages. Make: celebrates your
right to tweak, hack, and bend any technology
to your will. The Make: audience continues to
be a growing culture and community that be-
lieves in bettering ourselves, our environment,
our educational system—our entire world. This
is much more than an audience; it’s a world-
wide movement that Make: is leading—we call
it the Maker Movement.
For more information about Make:, visit us on-
line:
Make: magazine: http://makezine.com/
magazine
Maker Faire: http://makerfaire.com
Makezine.com: http://makezine.com
Maker Shed: http://makershed.com
We have a web page for this book, where we
list errata, examples, and any additional infor-
mation. You can access this page at http://
oreil.ly/1FfLJXV .
To comment or ask technical questions about
this book, send email to bookquestions@oreil-
ly.com .
ix PrefacePART I
MorningThink Y ou’ve Mastered Fire?
Make and Use a Bow Drill.
By Wendy Tremayne
While visiting New York’s Berkshire Mountains
region last winter I happened upon a crew of
girls grounded in Earth knowledge. They study
with naturalist Michelle Apland at the Flying
Deer Nature Center. The group’s treasure chest
of skills includes how to make bone tools, iden-
tify plants and insects, build shelter, create a
natural spring, distill water, and whip up a bow
drill to make ﬁre without a match.
On a below-freezing day in March, the girls and
I traversed a frozen pond. Midway across, the
sound of cracking froze me in place. A 12-year-
old turned her head over her shoulder to assure
me that cracking is no sign of weakness in the
pond’s ice sheet.
Later, all the girls unexpectedly dropped to
their bellies, extended their limbs to disperse
their weight on the ice, and reached out for cat-
tails growing beyond the watery edge—the
booty of the exploration.
After the harvest, the formation was uniformly
reversed, and we set out for a fort that the girls
had built earlier that day.
Here awaited a tinder bundle, a bow drill, and
an ice half-wall. The wall surrounded a ﬁre pit
that was easily lit, without matches, immediate-
ly providing warmth.I hoofed my way out of the woods feeling en-
tirely pooped while the girls carried out an im-
pressive list of things they were going to do be-
fore sundown. I took with me this gem of a DIY.
Materials and Tools
•Branches
•String
•Knife
•Handsaw (optional)
Figure 1-1 Gather wood, string, and a knife.
31Make a Bow Drill
A bow drill has 4 parts: the bow, the spindle,
the fireboard,  and the handhold.
Step 1: Choose and Whittle Y our
Wood
For your fireboard,  find  or whittle a flat board as
thick as your thumb and bigger than 3” wide
and 3” long.
For your spindle, choose a straight-grained
branch that’s a thumb knuckle in diameter and
8” in length. Whittle into a dowel shape, remov-
ing the bark, with a semi-sharp point at each
end.
Figure 1-2 Whittle a spindle with semi-pointy ends.
For your handhold, find  a 5"-long piece of
wood (slightly narrower in width), semi-flat  on
one side. To make the handhold notch, whittle
a 1/2"-deep hole sloping at 45° to its center.
Figure 1-3 Notch the handhold to seat the spindle.
Step 2: Make the Bow
Pick a bow from a live branch that’s the thick-
ness of your index finger  and a few inches
longer than your arm. Choose a string thicker
than a shoelace and 5" longer than your bow.
Using a clove hitch or square knot, tie it at each
end of the branch.
Figure 1-4 Tie a thick string to the bow ends.
Use a Bow Drill to Make Fire
Step 1: Drill a Pit into the Fireboard
Loop the bowstring once around the spindle.
With one end of the spindle on the fireboard
and the other in the notch of the handhold, ap-
ply firm  downward pressure to the handhold
while bowing back and forth so the bow turns
4 Make: Like the PioneersMake a Bow Drillthe spindle in both directions ( Figure 1-5 ). In-
crease the speed. Stop when you’ve burned a
pit into the fireboard  that’s the diameter of the
spindle, and dark with charred wood dust, as
seen in Figure 1-6 .
Figure 1-5 Drilling stance (for right-handed people): left
foot on the fireboard,  right knee on the ground, bow with
your right arm, and brace left arm around left knee.
(Lefties, reverse the stance)
Step 2: Make a Notch in the
Fireboard
On your fireboard,  cut a pie-shaped V-notch
that reaches the center of the pit you just dril-
led. This is easiest if you’ve drilled your pit near
the edge of the fireboard.  (You can see the V-
notch in Figure 1-7 .)
Figure 1-6 Drill a scorched pit into the fireboard.
Step 3: Spin a Hot Coal
Place the fireboard  on a surface that will catch
the black sawdust, which creates a hot ember
or coal. Look for smoke and a red glow as you
use the bow to spin the spindle ( Figure 1-6 ).
When the dust reaches 800°F, it will create a
glowing coal ( Figure 1-7 ) that can be placed in
a tinder bundle or kindling teepee to create a
matchless fire.
Figure 1-7 V-notch it, and drill again to make a hot coal.
Fire!
5 Chapter 1: Think Y ou’ve Mastered Fire? Make and Use a Bow Drill.Use a Bow Drill to Make FireWendy Tremayne is interested in creating a de-
commodified  life. She was a creative director in a
marketing firm  in New York City before moving to
Truth or Consequences, New Mexico, where she
built an off-the-grid  homestead with her partner,
Mikey Sklar. She is founder of the non-profit,  tex-
tile-repurposing event Swap-O-Rama-Rama,
which is celebrated in over 100 cities around the
world; a conceptual artist; event producer; yogi;gardener; backpacker; and writer. She has written
for CRAFT’s webzine, Make, and Sufi  magazine
and, with Mikey Sklar, keeps the blog Holy Scrap.
She is author of The Good Life Lab: Radical Experi-
ments in Hands-On Living (Storey Publishing,
June 2013). Publisher’s Weekly named it best sum-
mer read for 2013, and the book was awarded the
2014 Nautilus Book Silver Award for Green Living/
Sustainability.
6 Make: Like the PioneersUse a Bow Drill to Make FireHogwash: Bacon Soap
Figure 2-1 How to make bacon soap, from actual bacon!
By Tim King, PhD
I wanted to see if it was possible to make soap
from bacon fat. The bonus challenge: to make
the soap look like bacon.Materials and Tools
•Bacon fat
•100% lye (sodium hydroxide)
•Purified  water and ice
•Liquid smoke flavoring  (optional) for
fragrance
•Red food coloring (optional)
•Stove
•Pyrex™ baking pan
•Chemical/solvent/heat-resistant plastic
bowl
•Measuring cup
•Cotton cloth or paper towels
•Wooden or stainless steel spoon
•Metal can
•Kitchen thermometer
Use the following volume ratio:
•7-1/2 parts bacon fat:1 part crystalline
lye:2parts water
72Step 1: Melt Over Low Heat
Go slowly and don’t allow it to boil or sizzle.
Skim off any particles or debris that ﬂoat to the
surface of the melted bacon fat.
Figure 2-2 Melt the bacon fat (yum!) over a stove.
Step 2: Filter
Filter the melted bacon fat by pouring it
through cloth or paper towels into a large,
clean metal can.
Figure 2-3 Filter the melted fat, to ensure Ivory Soap™
purity.Step 3: Measure
Still warm, your bacon fat should look uniform,
clear, and junk-free. Measure your bacon fat,
then calculate the proper amount of lye—1
part lye to 7-1/2 parts bacon fat.
Figure 2-4 Measure lye crystals (wear eye protection).
Step 4: Pour
Measure 2 parts puriﬁed water. Feel free to in-
clude some ice in it, as the lye will get very hot.
In a heat-resistant, nonmetal container, pour in
your 2 parts water, then slowly pour the crystal-
line lye into the water.
Warning!
Lye fumes are noxious and can
cause serious injury. Make sure to
wear rubber gloves and eye protec-
tion when handling lye, and to mix
it in a well-ventilated area. Also, the
lye and water mixture will get very
hot, so be sure to mix them in a
proper workspace, and in a heat-re-
sistant, nonmetal container.
8 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Melt Over Low HeatStep 5: Wait
Take a break and wait for the lye-water mixture
to cool down. Do not leave the lye mixture un-
attended. When the lye-water mixture is
around 100°F (the temperature of a hot show-
er), check your bacon fat and see if it’s around
the same temperature (if not, heat it on the
stove until it is). Then slowly pour the warm lye
mixture into the warm bacon fat.
Figure 2-5 Pour warm lye mixture into the warm bacon
fat.
Step 6: Stir
Stir the mixture constantly for up to two hours
as it cools. When the mixture begins to show
“trace” (white soap stripes on the top surface),
move on to the next step.
Figure 2-6 Stir the mixture until you see trace
(white streaks) on the surface.Note
Mixing can take several hours. If
your mixture is still liquid after 2
hours, move on to the next step
and hope for the best.
Step 7: Pour (Again)
While the proto-soap mixture is still a thick liq-
uid, but showing signs of trace, you can mix in
liquid smoke ﬂavoring as a fragrance to en-
hance the bacon smell. Also, if you want to
make your bacon soap look like bacon, now’s
the time to pour a small portion of the mixture
into a separate container and add a bit of red
dye. Pour the beige, thick proto-soap into a pyr-
ex glass pan, then take the red-dyed proto-
soap and pour stripes into it to make it look like
bacon.
Figure 2-7 Add red dye (optional) to a small portion, to
honor the original bacon.
Step 8: Cure
Let the soap set or “cure” for at least 36 hours,
then cut blocks into desired shapes from the
greater slab. Do this while it’s still relatively soft.
Allow the soap to continue to cure for at least
two weeks.
9 Chapter 2: Hogwash: Bacon SoapStep 5: WaitFigure 2-8 Cut the partially cured soap into desired
shapes.Step 9: Enjoy!
Enjoy your soap. Everybody loves bacon (the
meat of the gods), and now we can bathe with
it.
Dr. Timothy King is an archaeologist and an an-
thropologist. He enjoys reproducing ancient tech-
nologies and he excavates Ice Age mammoths in
his free time. 
10 Make: Like the PioneersStep 9: Enjoy!Kitchen Table Cider Making
By Dr. Nevin J Stewart
Yes, our new neighbor got as drunk as a skunk.
Blootered, bladdered, and blitzed as we Scots
say or, in cockney slang, Brahms and Liszt! He
and his partner came along to a cider-themed
evening at our house where he was initiated in-
to the Scillonian Road hard cider making coop-
erative.
We started the evening with a hands-on ses-
sion of how to use my “juice and strain” method
to make clear apple juice and crystal-clear hard
cider, quickly and with minimal mess. Rather
than smash the apples outdoors with a messy,
old-fashioned cider press, I use modern centri-
fugal juicers right on the kitchen table.Dinner was accompanied by last year’s home-
made hard cider (6.5% alcohol by volume), ap-
ple wine (15% ABV), and store-bought Calva-
dos (40% ABV). It was the latter that did him the
most damage.
The next day, our new friend could remember
nothing of the evening’s proceedings. He was
unable to recall disclosing his lifetime’s accu-
mulated prejudices concerning ethnic minori-
ties, politics, religion, and relationships. Also my
introduction to the juice and strain cider meth-
od had been lost, as with the spirit vapors.
To save further embarrassment, I said nothing
about his verbal indiscretions, but I did re-ex-
plain my method to him as follows.
Materials and Tools
•75 lbs apples, twice washed
•5 g packet Champagne-variety yeast
(Saccharomyces bayanus)
•Campden tables (for sanitizing; they can
be found at wine-making and home-
brewing stores)
•Sugar (optional, for sparkling cider)
•Whole-fruit juicer, such as the Breville
Juice Fountain Elite or Plus; buy the
highest-power machine you can afford
113•Food-safe plastic hose to fit juicer spout;
typically 1” ID × 16” long
•Cotton towels
•Spring clamp
•Fine straining bag, typically 24” × 24”
•5 gallon brewing bucket, with open top,
with tap at bottom typically 12”
diameter × 17-1/2” tall
•Two 2-gallon pails For sterilizing and
straining. The straining pail should be
the diameter of your brew bucket, or a
bit larger; drill 30+ holes in the bottom.
•Hydrometer
•Funnel
•5-gallon carboy, or five 1-gallon
demijohns
•Airlocks(s) and rubber stopper(s), which
adds about 5” to your demijohn/bucket
height
•2-cup measuring cup
For Bottling:
•Rubber tubing for siphoning
•Siphon tap (optional)
•Tray with rim, such as a cookie sheet
•Beer-type bottles
•Bottle caps, crown style
•Hand-operated bottle capper
•LabelsStep 1: Clean Y our Equipment
Apple juice and hard cider are foodstuffs,  and
all appropriate food handling and safety meas-
ures should be stuck to. Wash your hands, sani-
tize all surfaces, double-wash the apples, and
throw away any bad ones.
Sterilize all equipment that will be in contact
with fresh apple juice. I use a stock solution of
four Campden tablets per gallon of water to
soak all the relevant parts and buckets for a
couple of hours before use.
Warning
If you’re making only apple juice
(and not fermenting it into cider), be
sure to use only handpicked apples,
as windfalls may have picked up
harmful bacteria which might not
wash off.
Step 2: Set Up the Juicer and
Strainer.
Lay out a clean towel, rinse off the juicer parts,
and assemble your whole fruit juicer.
Attach the “juice containment and delivery
adaptor, ” (a.k.a. hose), to the juicer’s spout, and
feed it into the straining bag, held within a
12 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Clean Y our Equipmentstraining bucket that has holes in its base. This
assembly sits neatly in the open brewing buck-
et with a draw-off  tap at the bottom.
Set up your brew bucket on a stool or box, high
enough that you can fit your demijohn or car-
boy underneath the tap. Apples go in at one
end, clear apple juice comes out at the other. It
couldn’t be simpler.
Step 3: Juice and Strain.
Feed apples into the juicer with a steady, even
pressure on the pusher. The higher the ma-
chine’s power rating, the faster you can go.
13 Chapter 3: Kitchen T able Cider MakingStep 3: Juice and Strain.Warning
Whole-fruit juicers are powerful ap-
pliances. Read and adhere to the
safety and other instructions for
your juicer.
When the pulp container fills up, discard the
pulp. After every 25 lbs of fruit, dismantle the
machine and clean the pulp off the centrifuge
stainless-steel mesh.
You’ll find  that the juicing work is done in a
flash,  although it takes a while longer for all the
juice to strain through. I obtain the last 5% of
the expected 65% by weight of juice by wring-
ing out the straining bag. Scottish, you see!
What’s left in the bag is about 1% of the origi-
nal apples. This very fine pulp can be used in
apple muffins.  You don’t want it in your cider.
Step 4: Shoot the Y east
While the last juice is draining, pitch the yeast
into a measuring cup containing fresh, clear ap-
ple juice held at room temperature. This will al-
low the dried yeast to rehydrate and kick-start
your fermentation. Use a champagne yeast for
simplicity and reliability. A 5 g packet is enough
to inoculate 5 gallons of juice.
At this point, measure the original gravity (OG)
with a hydrometer and write it down. Later, this
figure  will allow you to estimate your cider’s al-
cohol percentage. If the OG is low, top it up
with a little white sugar to reach 1.040.
After half an hour, stir the cup to thoroughly
disperse the yeast, then pour it into your steri-
lized carboy or demijohns. Fill these up nearly
to the top with apple juice, and put airlocks on
14 Make: Like the PioneersStep 4: Shoot the Y easttop. Within the hour, you should see bubbles
coming out through the airlock.
Step 5: Ferment
Keep the fermentation vessel(s) in a warm place
like the kitchen: and after three weeks, you
should have a crystal-clear cider ready to be
racked and bottled. Check it with your hydro-
meter. The reading needs to be 1.000 or less. If
it’s still high, let fermentation continue.
When the hard cider is finished,  measure the fi-
nal gravity, and read off the alcohol content
from an ABV chart or online calculator. For rea-
sonably good storage, 5% ABV is considered
the target minimum.
15 Chapter 3: Kitchen T able Cider MakingStep 5: FermentStep 6: Bottle
Siphon your cider into recycled, sterilized beer
bottles that will take a crown cap.
If you want a still hard cider, just bottle as is. If
you want bubbles, then add 1/2 teaspoon of
white sugar to a pint bottle, fill up with your
hard cider, and cap. After a few more weeks, a
secondary fermentation should be complete,
and you’ll have some fizz.
Step 7: Enjoy
Serve chilled. Take care when opening. If you’ve
overdone the sugar, it can go off like a fire ex-
tinguisher.
When serving, you can adjust the sweetness to
taste by adding sugar syrup. But I prefer my cid-
er as dry as it can go.
16 Make: Like the PioneersStep 6: BottleNevin Stewart, a retired industrial chemist living
in Guildford, England, no longer “cooks up” novel
oilfield  production chemicals for British Petrole-
um. Instead he has trained as a hobbyist chef and
creates new fusion dishes for family and friends.
These are usuallly paired, and washed down, with
homemade apple juice or hard cider. 
17 Chapter 3: Kitchen T able Cider MakingStep 7: EnjoyPaper Making
—Recycle your unwanted bills and
junk mail into custom-made
personal stationery.
By François Vigneault
Paper, first invented in China around the first or
second century AD, is now so ubiquitous that it
has achieved near-invisibility in our modern
world. The average American household re-
ceives more than 100 pounds of unwanted junk
mail each year! However, creating a handmade
sheet of paper can remind anyone of this every-
day object’s noble origins.
Here’s a chance to give your unwanted papers a
second life for stationery, collage, or anythingelse you can imagine. Rediscover this ancient
and oh-so-easy art form.
Materials and Tools
•Sponge
•Interfacing or wool blankets for felts
•Old paper products: old bills, junk mail,
and other scrap papers, and inclusions
(optional), such as fabric or paper scraps,
glitter, leaves, or flower  petals
•Cookie cutters (optional)
•Cookie sheet or other surface for water
control
•Brayer or smooth flat block.
•1” x 4” lumber cut into two 5” pieces and
two 9” pieces.
•4 Hook-and-eye latches
•Canvas stretchers, sold at art supply
stores
•Window screening
•Rubbermaid™ tub or other waterproof
container
•Blender
•Hammer
•Staple gun
194Step 1: Learn the Glossary of
Terms
Mold and deckle:
The frame that’s used to make paper. The
mold is the bottom portion, which includes
the stiff mesh that the screen rests on. The
deckle is the upper portion, which
determines the shape and size of the sheet
of paper (the ragged edges seen in
handmade papers are called deckle edges).
There are many different  versions of this
mold-and-deckle setup; for this project, we
use a variation called a deckle box or pour
mold.
Couching:
Pronounced “cooching” (it’s derived from
the French coucher, “to lay”), this is the
process of transferring the wet sheet from
the mold to another surface (the felt) to dry.
Felts:
Sometimes called couching sheets, these
are the pieces of material used to separate
sheets of wet paper while they dry. Felts are
available at art supply shops; however,
interfacing or old wool army blankets can
also work well.
Pulp:
The mix of water and plant fibers  that your
paper is made of. You can create pulp from
cotton linters (sold at art supply stores) and
other plant fibers;  but in this project, we’llmake pulp by reusing scrap paper and junk
mail.
Step 2: Build the Pour Mold
Cut the window screening to a size slightly larg-
er than the outside dimensions of the canvas
stretcher (my canvas stretcher here is 7” × 9”).
Use a staple gun to attach the window screen-
ing mesh to the canvas stretcher, making sure
it’s as taut as possible.
Cut 4 pieces of 1” × 4” lumber (here my pieces
were 5” and 9” long) to fit together into a rec-
tangle—the interior size will be the finished
size of your paper (5” × 7” in this case). Secure
the sides with wood glue and nails.
Add the hook-and-eye latches on either side of
the mold and deckle box to hold them together
tightly.
20 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Learn the Glossary of T ermsStep 3: Make the Pulp
The paper you choose to recycle will affect  the
consistency, color, and feel of your handmade
paper. In general, bills and printer papers will
create a smoother, more consistent sheet, while
magazine pages and glossy papers will tend to
chop up more irregularly, creating a more “ar-
tistic” look. Experiment with mixing different
papers together.
Cut or tear your paper into approximately 1”
square pieces, and place them in the blender
with enough water to cover them completely.
With the pour method, you can make as much
pulp as you want at a time; a good rule of
thumb is that whatever the size of your original
sheet, the pulp you make from it will make a
sheet about 1” smaller in both width and
length.
Blend the paper scraps and water until all large
chunks are pulverized (about 30 seconds to 1
minute). The longer you blend the pulp, the
smoother and more regular your paper will be.
Pulping can dull your blender’s blades quickly,
so it’s a good idea to keep a dedicated paper-
making blade or get a separate blender (you
can usually find  one at a thrift store) if you want
to make paper frequently.
Personalize your pulp! You can add in a wide
variety of materials while blending, including
leaves, flowers,  glitter, confetti, seeds, andmuch more. It’s best not to blend ribbons or
other long fibers,  as they can get wound
around the blades. Finally, consider dyeing your
pulp.
Step 4: Pour the Pulp
Fill your vat with enough water to cover the
mesh on the resting pour mold by at least 1⁄2” .
(A large Rubbermaid™ tub works great, and can
be used to store your papermaking supplies
when not in use.)
Using the hook-and-eye latches, secure the
deckle box and the mold. Place them in the vat,
sliding in at an angle to discourage air pockets
from forming.
Pour your pulp onto the mesh. The more pulp
poured, the thicker the paper. Use your fingers
or a spoon to stir the pulp and distribute the fi-
bers  evenly across the surface of the water.
21 Chapter 4: Paper MakingStep 3: Make the PulpSlowly pull the pour mold upward, letting the
water drain back into the tub. Place the entire
apparatus on a cookie sheet to keep water from
getting everywhere.
In traditional Western papermaking, the entire
vat is filled  with a pulp mixture, which makes
for more consistency from sheet to sheet. The
pour method, on the other hand, makes it really
easy to vary the texture, color, and weight of
your sheets; each one can be totally different!
This makes it an ideal technique for beginners,
who may want to experiment wildly before set-
tling on a style.
Step 5: Couch the Sheet
Undo the hook-and-eye latches and lift the
deckle box, being careful not to pull the wet
sheet up with it.
Lay your felt (I used interfacing for this project)
onto the wet sheet. Carefully turn over the felt,
sheet, and mold. Be sure to hold the layers to-
gether.
22 Make: Like the PioneersStep 5: Couch the SheetStep 6: Use the Sponge
Use a sponge to soak up any excess water from
the sheet, pressing down on top of the felt and
wringing out the sponge until you can’t pull
any more water out of the paper.
Slowly lift the mold from the paper surface,
holding down the felt. The surface tension be-
tween the felt and the paper is greater than
that between the paper and the mesh, which
should cause the paper to stick to the felt.
Place another felt piece on top of the sheet. Us-
ing a brayer or presser bar (or any smooth, even
surface), smooth the paper to remove any lin-
gering excess moisture.
Step 7: Dry the Paper
Set the paper between the felts on a flat surface
to air-dry. Your paper may “cockle” (curl) a bit; if
you want to reduce cockling, stack your wet
sheets, one on top of the other, with felts be-
tween each sheet, then place a heavy book on
top to press them.
The drying time of your papers will vary from
less than an hour to several days, depending on
the humidity in the air and the type of pulp
used. If the drying takes more than a day,
change the felts once a day—this will keep the
23 Chapter 4: Paper MakingStep 6: Use the Spongepaper from getting moldy. If you’re in a hurry,
you can gently press your sheets with an iron,
but this tends to make the sheets cockle quite a
bit, and I don’t recommend it.
Step 8: Variations: Paper
Shapes
You can easily incorporate designs into your pa-
per by separating different  pulp colors or tex-
tures into simple designs.
A piece of stiff,  thin plastic can split your sheet
into two or more sections. You can also usecookie cutters or a tin can with both ends re-
moved (for circles, as seen in the opening shot)
to create shapes within your sheet, or to make
shaped gift tags, etc.
Pour distinct pulp mixtures into the separated
areas, pull your mold from the vat, and remove
the separators before couching your sheet. The
pressure from the felt will join the separate sec-
tions into a single sheet, as long as they’re ap-
proximately the same density and weight.
Step 9: Variations: Embedded
Items
If you’d like to embed flat items such as paper,
fabric, or leaves into your paper, it’s easy. Dip
the item into your pulp mixture to coat it with a
thin layer, and then work the item into the pulp
sheet right after you remove it from the vat.
François Vigneault is a freelance illustrator, the
creator of the sci-fi  comic Titan, and a cofounder
of the Linework NW festival. He lives in Montréal,
Québec.
24 Make: Like the PioneersStep 8: Variations: Paper ShapesOlde-School Bookbinding
—Pages last longer, lie flatter,  and
look better inside a handsome,
durable hardcover.
By Brian Sawyer
Magazines aren’t really built to last, but here’s
how you can turn your copy of Make:  (or any
other magazine or printout) into a durable
hardcover that will withstand the test of time.
Your hardcover Make:  will also lie flat on your
workbench, making it easier to follow instruc-
tions for other projects.
Tools and Materials:
•Magazine or pages to be bound
•Acid-free nontoxic adhesive (I’m a Yes
man, myself)
•Bookbinding tape, 1/4” linen
•Durable, acid-free linen binder’s thread
•Decorative paper for cover and end
sheets
•1/8"-thick binder’s board, or use
chipboard or illustration board
•Loose-weave, white linen fabric
•Heavy-duty ruler or carpenter’s square
•Utility knife
•Pen
•Binder’s needle or tapestry or other
heavy needle
•Brush
•Scrap paper
•Wax paper
•Medium-grit sandpaper
•Medium-duty awl
255Step 1: Create the Signatures
Peel away the existing cover, and use a utility
knife and a heavy ruler to cut out all the pages
1” from the spine, freeing them from the glue.
Divide your loose pages into consecutive 32-
page sections (signatures). Binding loose pages
as joined signatures will strengthen the spine
and keep pages from falling out. For Make:  Vol.
01, without the ads, I got 192 pages, or six
groups. If your total page count isn’t a multiple
of 32, you can fudge the signature sizes a bit,
but each signature must have a page count di-
visible by 4.
Open the first group in half, such that pages 16
and 17 are facing. Pair these pages and set
them aside, doing the same for the next facing
pages (14 and 19) and the rest in the group.
Just keep subtracting 2 from the left side and
adding 2 to the right to determine which
sheets to pair up. If you did it correctly, the last
two pages you pair up will be 2 and 31.
Draw a vertical line 1/4” from the right edge of
page 16 (and all up-facing even pages). Cover
the area to the left of the line with scrap paper.
Brush a thin coat of acid-free, nontoxic adhe-
sive (such as Yes) into the exposed 1/4” gulley.
Press the corresponding up-facing odd pages
into the gully to glue together the pairs.
Return the pairs to the order they were in be-
fore being split in half. Align the edges of the
pages and fold them along the spine. Repeat
for each group and collate the finished  signa-
tures in their original order.
Step 2: Stitch the Signatures
Sewing your signatures together around book-
binding tape creates the added durability of a
hand-bound book. Measure and make two
marks along the fold of the first signature, 1/2”
in from each edge of the signature. These two
marks represent the kettle stitches, the stitches
that connect one signature to the next.
Figure 5-1 Ready to sew. Though using a stitching post is
not absolutely necessary (as long as you keep a steady
hand, make sure the tapes remain taut, and ensure that
the signatures stay even while you sew), it does keep the
work organized and easier to manipulate with the only two
hands you have. If you have one available, set it up with
the tapes stretched tight and spaced to match your holes.
Now measure and mark six more points on the
fold: three pairs of points, 1/4” apart, spaced
evenly between the two kettle stitches. These
represent the in-and-out point for sewing the
signatures around three tapes, which will run
behind the signatures.
Stack the remaining signatures and make the
same marks, at the same measurements. Pierce
the marks with an awl, making holes just wide
enough to allow a needle to pass through
snugly.
Using a heavy needle, enter the spine and pull
about 30” of thread through the foot (bottom
edge) kettle stitch of the last signature. Exit the
spine at the next hole, and re-enter around the
first tape.
26 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Create the SignaturesFigure 5-2 Attaching the signatures with three strips of
bookbinding tape.
Keep stitching around the tapes, and exit the
spine at the head (top edge) kettle stitch. Using
the same thread, enter the next-to-last signa-
ture at its head kettle stitch. Stitch around the
tapes, and knot the thread around the foot ket-
tle stitch of the first signature.
Continue in this fashion to stitch the remaining
signatures together. If you run out of thread,
knot a new 30” length to the existing thread.
The best place to do this is just before re-enter-
ing the spine around a tape. When you come to
the last kettle stitch, knot the thread.
Figure 5-3 Use a heavy needle to penetrate the paper.
The three tapes (one is shown here) run behind the
signatures.At this point, it’s a good idea to apply a bit of
glue (about 1/4”) to the inside of the first and
last signatures (use a piece of scrap paper to
protect the portion of the page you don’t in-
tend to glue) and put the work under heavy
weights overnight.
Step 3: Glue the Spine
Next, attach the mull (a strong strip of cloth
with a loose weave that allows paste through it)
to the spine and tapes. (Connecting the cover
boards to the mull, rather than directly to the
signatures, allows for a flexible  backbone. This
is the key to lay-flat  binding.) Keeping the pa-
ges aligned on all sides, sandwich your work in
a press or vise.
Cut a piece of mull that’s tall enough to cover
your kettle stitches and 3 inches wider than the
width of the spine. Brush a generous amount of
glue on the spine, from kettle stitch to kettle
stitch, across the full width. Lay the mull flat
27 Chapter 5: Olde-School BookbindingStep 3: Glue the Spineand mark the spine area on it, 1” in from either
side. Brush this area generously with glue.
Position the mull symmetrically and rub it into
the spine. Leave the book overnight under
heavy weights or in a press.
Step 4: Attach Cover Boards
Cut three boards (1” binder’s board) for the
front cover, back cover, and spine. Allow 1” ad-
ditional clearance on the head, foot, and fore
edges. Reduce the edge on the spine side of
the front and back covers by 1/4” (the thickness
of two boards), to accommodate the hinge. Al-
together, the covers should be cut to 1/4” taller
than the height of the book (1” added to the
head and foot) and 1” narrower than the width
of the book (adding 1” and subtracting 1/4”).
Cut the spine to the same height as the covers
and the same width as the signatures. Sand
down the rough edges.
28 Make: Like the PioneersStep 4: Attach Cover BoardsPlace one piece of wax paper between the mull
and the free ends of the tapes and another be-
neath the tapes. Brush the free mull edge with
glue. Remove the top piece of wax paper. Press
the front board against the mull, extending 1”
of the board over the head, foot, and fore
edges.
Open the cover and rest it against a board for
support. Rub the mull with cloth or paper,
working the glue into the board. Brush the
tapes with glue and press them to the cover
board. Discard the second piece of wax paper,
and place another clean piece between the
cover board and the first signature. Repeat for
the back cover.
Step 5: Cover the Cover
You’ll now cover this skeleton with a single
piece of decorative paper that wraps around
the front cover, back cover, and spine. To create
room to slide the paper over the edges of the
cover and spine, use your utility knife to slit the
mull by 1/2” where the covers meet the spine,
at both the head and foot edges.
Lay your cover paper face down and mark the
placement of your boards. Allow a 1/2” (thick-
ness of four boards) turnover width for all
edges, and 1/4” (thickness of two boards) for
each hinge.Brush the spine area of the paper with glue, po-
sition the board, and press firmly.  Turn the pa-
per over and rub to secure the spine, and mold
the paper over the edges of the board.
Brush the area you’ve marked for the front cov-
er with glue, brush slightly into the turnovers
and hinge, and press the board between your
marks. Turn the book over, and rub the cover to
remove air bubbles or wrinkles.
Figure 5-4 Brush the area you’ve marked for the front
cover with glue.
Brush glue onto the area for the back cover. Lay
the back cover board’s fore edge down on the
paper, meeting your mark for that edge. Pinch
the paper to the board on that edge, and press
the remaining paper to the back of the book.
Rub the back cover, working the paper on into
the hinge to seal the paper to your book block
around the spine. Repeat for the hinge of the
front cover.
29 Chapter 5: Olde-School BookbindingStep 5: Cover the CoverFigure 5-5 Working the paper into the hinge.
Lay the book open, and brush glue across the
length of the head turnover. Stand the book up
on its foot edge, and roll the edges of the head
turnover over the top of the board. Repeat for
the foot edge. Brush fore edges with glue, fold
the turnovers, and smooth out wrinkles.
Figure 5-6 Smooth out wrinkles.Lay sheets of wax paper between the cover
boards and your block of signatures, and press
under heavy weights overnight.
Step 6: Finish
Pasting end sheets to the inside front and back
covers reinforces the spine and finishes  your
book’s appearance. I used the original
Make:  wraparound cover as my front end sheet.
Trim it to leave an equal distance around each
edge, and paste it to the board. Allow glue to
run into the spine, covering the point where
the cover meets the spine and extending into
the first signature by a 1/4” gutter. Repeat for
the back cover board.
Put fresh pieces of wax paper between the cov-
ers and the book block, and then set under
heavy weights to dry overnight. You’ll wake up
to a long-lasting volume that will look unique,
lie flat, and serve you well.
Brian Sawyer makes books, makes stuff,  and
makes books about making stuff.  A bibliophile at
heart, and a book editor by trade, he often writes
about making books on his personal blog, when
he’s not busy actually making them.
30 Make: Like the PioneersStep 6: FinishPART II
AfternoonFool’s Stool
Figure 6-1 Build a fake colonial period stool good enough
to fool almost everybody.
By Gordon Thorburn
Almost anybody can make A 17th-century
board stool. In those early, pioneering times,
techniques and tools were fairly primitive and
ambitions consequently modest, so today, fak-
ing the American colonial style requires a do-it-
for-fun, cavalier attitude rather than serious
precision.
In making your brand-new antique, it actually
helps if you begin with joinery that’s not per-
fectly straight, level, smooth, and right-angled.
You’re not making a direct copy. The photo-
graphs are here for guidance, but each fakepiece is an individual article. It’s not so much a
clone as a close relation of something genuine.
When British settlers turned up in America, they
brought the Jacobean style with them and
translated it as American colonial, but they
couldn’t go to the wood merchant and buy
planed and sanded oak, cut for them in conve-
nient widths and lengths. They didn’t have an
electric jigsaw or a power drill, but you proba-
bly do. You’ll also need a hammer and a few
odds and ends. Compared to the Pilgrim fa-
thers, you have it very easy.
Materials and Tools
•Oak boards, 18” – 20” long:
—one board, 12” – 14” × 3/4”
—two boards, 10” – 12” × 1/2”
—two boards, 8” × 1/2”
•Pine scrap, about 1” × 1” × 4”
•Paste finishing  wax and wood glue
•Cow manure (preferred) or wood stain
and shellac
•Drill
•Jigsaw
•Handsaw
•Circular saw
336•Hammer
•Chisel
•Spokeshave
•Brush (optional)
Step 1: Cut the Five Pieces of
Wood
We’re not going to give precise dimensions, be-
cause they don’t matter. You have five pieces to
cut: a top, two identical legs, and two identical
sides. Draw templates on paper, and pencil in
the outlines on the wood.
Figure 6-2 Pencil the template outline onto the wood
The height of the stool is about the same as the
length of the top. The top is between 18” and
20” long, with grain running longways, 12” to
14” wide, and 3/4” thick.
Legs are about 2” narrower than the top, to give
the overhang. Sides are about 8” wide. Decora-
tive cuttings-out with your jigsaw must be kept
simple. You could just drill a few large holes in a
pattern.
Figure 6-3 The 4 pieces of the frame are joined by 4"-
long, 1/2"-wide slots
To obtain the squared-off  end on the slots, drill
a hole in each corner of the slots so the jigsaw
blade can make the 90° angle.
Figure 6-4  Drill a hole to help the blade
The slots in the sides should be at a slight an-
gle. If the side is 18” long, the gap inside the
legs at the top edge should be about 12" and at
the bottom edge about 13-1/2” .
34 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Cut the Five Pieces of WoodStep 2: Distress the Pieces
The fate of most of your stool’s rustic and very
early brethren was to be chopped up and put
on the fire when the more elegant stuff  came
in. For it still to be here in the 21st century, it
must have suffered  in many ways, to be rescued
at last by your good self or another saintly per-
son you know.
Before assembling the stool, rub with coarse
sandpaper and throw and drag your cut pieces
of oak around the yard or along the street until
you get a satisfactory number of chips and
scratches.
Figure 6-5 Distressing the oak
Step 3: Glue the Pieces
Together
The colonial maker would have used nothing
but joinery to hold the frame together, but then
his stool was only going to be sat on. His stool
wasn’t going to be thrown around, soaked, shot
at, and otherwise attacked (see steps 5 and 7).
You shall use wood glue.
 Figure 6-6 Use wood glue to hold the frame together
Depending on the accuracy of your slot cutting,
you may need to tie string around the leg
pieces to keep them in order while the glue
sets.
35 Chapter 6: Fool’s StoolStep 2: Distress the PiecesStep 4: Fix the Top
Drill 1/4” holes through the top into the legs,
one at each corner, and two more at the mid-
point into the sides. Do this by eye. Don’t meas-
ure.
Figure 6-7 Doing it by eye makes it look more authentic
Use a chisel and hammer to make eight square
pegs out of pine wood. Use a piece of pine that
has a nice straight grain to make it easier when
splitting. Make square-section lengths, like very
fat matchsticks, slightly thicker than the holes
you’ve drilled. If your peg-wood has good
straight grain, you can split it with a chisel;
otherwise saw it.
Figure 6-8 Square pegs to be fitted  into the round hole
you just drilled
Drop some glue in the hole and bang the peg
in fearlessly with a hammer. Saw off any sur-
plus, not too close.
Figure 6-9 Hammer in each peg fearlessly, then saw off
the remainder.
36 Make: Like the PioneersStep 4: Fix the T opStep 5: Distress the Stool a
Bit More
The expert looks for a texture to the wood on
the seat, with the grain standing out a little, the
pegs proud, and a general air of being used and
worn and knocked about. Obvious places for
wear are the bottoms of the legs and the edges
of the seat. Also, the underside of the overhang
should show the patina of being picked up a
million times by greasy fingers.
So, how do we fool our friends and neighbors?
First, add wear, again with coarse sandpaper
and a spokeshave. Simulate dog bites with vise
grips. Don’t overdo it, but allow no line to be
perfectly straight.
Figure 6-10 Bad dog!
Step 6: Stain with Cow Muck
Next, it’s the color. With oak, there’s only one
way to get that perfect, 500-year-old look, and
that is to make your stool and wait 500 years.
The best compromise between time and con-
venience is to steep your oak in cow muck. We
realize this is not an option everyone can pur-
sue, but then the best never is. The process
gives you a very good color that’s not flat, as
stain tends to be, but variegated in a natural,
haphazard way.You could go and collect a sack full of cow pats,
make them into a soupy slop in a trash can, and
immerse your stool in it. Add your used tea
leaves and coffee  grounds. Compost is good.
Four to six weeks will be a reasonable time in
the pit, but a mid-term inspection will be nec-
essary. The color revealed when wet is the color
you’ll get when it’s polished.
Once you’re satisfied  with the color, you’ll have
to get rid of the smell. A week in running water
will do it, so it’s handy to have your own trout
stream or access thereto, or a week in the sea.
Otherwise it’s a fortnight or more in a rain bar-
rel with regular water changes, lots of wet
weather, or the equivalent in garden hose soak-
ings. When the wood is wet, that’s the time to
add wear to the bottoms of the legs. Tap with a
hammer to splay the feet and round them off,
to simulate years of scraping on a stone floor.
Drying out in sun and wind between soak-
seems to help lose the smell. Don’t be dis-
mayed by the light gray it goes when dry. Pol-
ish will bring it all back. On no account use any
chemicals or proprietary deodorizers. These
may spoil your color and/or seal in the smell so
it will never go away.
Another great thing about soaking is that
you’re likely to get the odd random crack or
two, which adds an authenticity you could nev-
er get on purpose. It also raises the grain as if a
hundred family backsides have gradually worn
away the softer parts of the wood, leaving the
harder grain standing out in tiny, well-polished
ridges.
37 Chapter 6: Fool’s StoolStep 5: Distress the Stool a Bit MoreFigure 6-11 An odd random crack ...
Figure 6-12 ... or two.
If cow muck isn’t for you, you have alternatives,
such as stain. This is the last resort because it
tends to give a flat result, and it’s the hardest to
get right.
If you have no other option, then at least do a
week’s soaking in water, bash the feet, and al-
low the stool to dry out thoroughly, preferably
in the sun.Mix dark oak stain with shellac, about 50:50 (try
more or less to your liking). They don’t
blend, which is the idea. When you like the re-
sult, slap it all over the stool with a brush. Do
this at speed, with confidence.
Don’t worry about runs and uneven
areas. When it’s dry, go into the shade and rub a
little wax furniture polish on it. Phew. Let’s hope
it works.
Step 7: Distress the Stool
Even More
We give here a menu of possibilities for mis-
treatment, but be circumspect. No one piece
could have suffered  all of these miniature disas-
ters. Beware of overfaking.
Use it as a sawbench. Poke holes in it with an
awl. Scratch it with a dinner fork. Carve initials
on the top in a corner, or at the top of a leg.
Draw a rudimentary coat-of-arms with a solder-
ing iron. Knock off a vulnerable bit and glue it
back on. Scorch part of it with a blow-torch.
Stain it with sloe gin or ink. Burn it with a cigar
or cigarette. Some of these techniques will re-
veal new wood beneath. Black shoe polish will
sort that.
Now you can polish. Rub all over with diluted
shellac to seal the color, then wax polish except
for the main underside, which never saw the
light and was never touched. And that’s it. Best
of luck.
Go on, you can do it.
Gordon Thorburn is the author of over 25 books.
38 Make: Like the PioneersStep 7: Distress the Stool Even MoreRok-Bak Chair
—Can a chair be comfortable, look
good, recline, disassemble for
compactness and portability, and
still be made from just a single
sheet of plywood?
By Larry Cotton
With a determination borne of frustration and
frugality, I set about designing a chair that
would meet all my requirements. I began by
making a crude study model, with all body-sup-
porting surfaces adjustable: the seat, the back,
armrests, headrest, footstool, the angle be-
tween the seat and back, even the overall size.
The model’s only given: it would use a set of
standard patio chair cushions and one sheet of
plywood.
Somewhere in the middle of seemingly infinite
adjustments, I discovered that recliners really
are much more comfortable than upright
chairs, so I threw reclinability into the mix as
well.
Finally I found a combination that fits—ergo-
nomically,  esthetically, and economically. It’s
even been sleep-tested. I call it the Rok-Bak
chair.The Rok-Bak is very comfortable, easy and inex-
pensive to build, can be assembled or disas-
sembled in a few minutes, and can be stored
and moved about easily, taking up very little
space.
The Rok-Bak can be built in two configurations.
One is just a nice, comfortable chair. The other
has bottom edges shaped like shallow Vs, and
can be rocked back (hence the name) into a re-
clining position.
Either configuration  can be complemented by
a headrest and footstool, but in Rok-Bak mode,
you’ll definitely  want to make both, for even
more comfort.
If you’re really ambitious, you can upholster
your own cushions (as I did with expert help
from my brother Phil), as well as the headrest
and footstool, for a perfectly matched set. The
upholstery techniques are similar for most any
fabric.
You can cut the chair parts with a jigsaw and a
circular saw. Fabric work can be limited to cut-
ting with good scissors and making 1 long
seam—with either a sewing machine or fabric
bonding tape—then stapling in place.
You’ll also need additional hardware and sta-
ples. You should decide at the outset which
configuration  you like: basic or Rok-Bak. Keep in
397mind that the Rok-Bak is quite usable rocked
forward. Once you cut the large bottom cutout,
you can’t change the chair back to the basic
configuration.  However, you can later convert
basic to Rok-Bak.
Since the A side of the plywood (the good side)
faces outward on the chair and stool, the C side,
with its knots and other imperfections, will be
almost completely hidden.
Materials for the Chair Only:
•2 Patio chair cushions, 4"–5” thick stock
or custom. Ideally get a 22” × 40”
stitched-together pair; alternately, get
two separate cushions, each 22” × 20” .
Big-box stores carry patio cushions, and
fancier cushions can be found online in
lots of colors and designs for a bit more
money.
•Varnish, or, preferably, polyurethane
spray
•Spray adhesive for holding foam on
arms during upholstery
•8×1-1/2” flathead  wood or drywall
screws (22)
•10 9/32"–5/16” ID washers
Figure 7-1 Materials you’ll need
•10 1/4” × 2-1/2” lag bolts (10)
•2 × 4 fir or pine, 8’ length for cross
braces•1 × 4 fir or pine, 6’ length for arms
•1/2” plywood, 4’ × 8’ sheet, A-C interior
grade (minimum)
For the Footstool and Headrest :
•Hook-and-loop fastening material
(Velcro™), 30 square inches
•Fabric bonding tape such as Stitch
Witchery, 1/2"–5/8” wide such as Stitch
Witchery. This is an alternative to
sewing.
•1 yard of 54” or 60” upholstery fabric.
Material for upholstery is abundant at
mill outlets. I used denim for my deluxe
chair, which looks good, is easy to work
with, and (you guessed it) cheap.
•1 box staples, with 3/8” leg
•Spool of white thread (optional)
•4 oz (minimum) pillow stuffing,  such as
Holofil  or Nature-fil,  for the headrest
•Medium-density foam, 29” × 19” ×
1-1/2” thick, from a foam store or
upholstery shop. Medium density
weighs about about 1lb/ft3.
•1” wood dowel, 8-1/2” length for the
headrest
•2×2 fir or pine, 3’ length for footstool
top supports
•2/4” foam, 7” × 25” or you can saw
1-1/2"-thick foam
•Jigsaw with plywood blade
•Circular saw (optional) with plywood
blade
•Sander with various grits of sandpaper
Random orbit is best.
•Drill with drill bits and screwdriver bits
•1-1/2"–2” diameter drum-sander
accessory for drill with 60-grit paper
•7/16” ratchet wrench—A manual ratchet
is OK, but an accessory for your drill is
faster.
•Sharp pencils with erasers
•Standard 15oz can. You may eat the
contents, but save the can.
40 Make: Like the PioneersStep 7: Distress the Stool Even MoreFor Upholstering:
•Scissors or shears
•Electric knife (optional) for cutting foam
•Band saw (optional) if you’re re-sawing
1-1/2” foam; otherwise buy 3/4” foam
•Staple gun
•Sewing machine or clothes iron for
sewing or hot-taping fabric seams
Step 1: Make the Plywood
Pieces
Download all the construction drawings at
http://bit.ly/rokbakgithub .
Start by using a pencil to lay out the plywood
pieces on the C side of the plywood. Why? Be-
cause we’ll cut the parts out with a jigsaw (and
possibly a circular saw), and we want to keep
the A side (think “appearance” side) splinter-
free. Both saws’ blades cut on the upstroke, so
any splintering will be confined  to the (mostly
hidden) C side.
You should lay out only one side of the chair
and footstool. Later you’ll use it to trace the
other side, making sure they are mirror images,
as shown in the layout drawing. Use a standard
15 oz can as a radius (about 1-1/2”) template for
corners. A sharp jigsaw blade should have no
trouble following that radius.
Figure 7-2 Use a can as a templateTo conserve plywood, you can skip laying out
the footstool top. It can be pieced together lat-
er from the chair-side cutouts.
Tip
You must cut the top corner radi-
us of the chair side with a jigsaw;
a circular saw would nick up the
footstool side.
Suspend your plywood on a few supports.
Scraps of 4 × 4 wood or even paint cans (if
they’re the same height) make good supports.
Position them, obviously, out of the projected
path of the saw blade.
Cut one chair side and one stool side. Start by
jigsawing out the cutout under the arm. Drill a
3/8” starting hole from the C side—inside of,
and close to (but not on), the layout line. Use a
scrap of wood on the exit side of the hole to
prevent splintering. Then insert the jigsaw
blade into this hole and cut as usual.
41 Chapter 7: Rok-Bak ChairStep 1: Make the Plywood PiecesNote
Both chair configurations  begin
with cutting out the sides as
shown on the layout draw-
ing. They can be used as-is for the
basic chair. If you’ve decided to
build the Rok-Bak, we’ll cut the V-
shaped bottom edges and bot-
tom cutouts later.
It’s a good idea to use a circular saw on the
straight cuts, for speed, accuracy, and to mini-
mize sanding. Notice that the gap between ply-
wood pieces on the layout is at least 1/8” . Thus
one cut serves two pieces.
Note
You can minimize jigsaw splinter-
ing by using a splinter guard that
snaps into the saw’s footplate. Al-
so, use new blades designed
specifically  to cut plywood. And if
your jigsaw has multiple modes,
set it to straight up-and-down
rather than orbit mode. The cut-
ting will go slower, but you’ll get
far fewer splinters.
After cutting one each of the chair and stool
sides, sand all the edges smooth. Use a sanding
drum accessory in your drill if you have one; itwill ensure nice, accurate, rounded corners that
blend smoothly into the straight edges.
Now trace around the finished  sides onto the
plywood sheet, as shown in the layout drawing
and photos. Once more: you must lay out mir-
ror images so that the good side of the ply-
wood will face out on the finished  chair. Cut out
the remaining sides.
Lay the chair sides face to face with the bad sur-
faces out, and drill the three 1/4” holes for at-
taching the sides to the cross braces. To mini-
mize splintering, place scraps of wood under
the side where the bit will exit. Repeat this pro-
cess for the mounting holes in the stool sides.
Cut the chair’s seat and back 22” wide to ac-
commodate standard-sized patio chair cush-
ions. For narrower cushions, adjust the widths
accordingly. Add three countersunk holes to
the back, following the layout.
Cut out the footstool top and the headrest sup-
port, backstop, and disks.
Step 2: Make the Cross
Braces
Next cut three 22” lengths of 2 × 4 for the chair.
These will be cross braces A, B, and C. You’ll
modify A and B to accommodate the headrest
and backstop. (Again, if your cushions are less
42 Make: Like the PioneersStep 2: Make the Cross Bracesthan 22” wide, adjust the length of the 2 × 4s to
match the width of the seat and back.)
After cutting, draw an X on all the ends of the 2
× 4s, corner-to-corner. At the center of each X,
drill a 5/32” hole at least 2” deep.
Cross brace A: If you plan to make a headrest,
you need to shape a mounting surface for the
headrest support piece. Using a hand or power
plane, create a smooth, flat 1-1/2"-wide surface,
at least 10” long, at approximately the angles
shown. (Easier would be to cut it on an adjusta-
ble-table band saw, for the entire 22” length of
the brace.) The 53° and 37° angles ensure that
the headrest support is vertical before the chair
is rocked back.
Cross brace B: Attach the backstop, a 22” ×
1-1/4” × 1/2” strip of plywood that will support
both seat and back pieces. This extra piece of
plywood catches the bottom of the back, whichthen stops the seat. Use three #8 × 1-1/2” wood
screws, spaced approximately 8” apart.
Cross brace D: For the footstool, cut a 15”
length of 2×4 and drill holes in the ends as you
did on the other braces. We’ll make the other
miscellaneous parts after test-assembling the
chair.
Step 3: Assemble the Basic
Chair
Prop the sides apart while you fasten the cross
braces between them using the lag bolts and
washers.
Warning!
Don’t scrimp on the size of these
bolts, or your chair and/or stool
could disassemble itself dramatical-
ly! Before you add the seat and back
pieces to the chair, check for
smoothness of all surfaces and
edges. This is not only an appear-
ance issue, but an obvious comfort
issue as well.
Drop the back (three screw holes up) and seat
(any orientation) into their respective positions.
Notice that the bottom of the back fits between
43 Chapter 7: Rok-Bak ChairStep 3: Assemble the Basic Chairthe rear edge of the seat and the backstop on
cross brace B. Do not sit yet!
IMPORTANT: With the seat and back pieces
flush  with the wide side of all three cross
braces, fasten the back to cross brace A with
three #8 × 1-1/2” flathead  wood screws. These
screws prevent braces A and B from rotating;
your weight will keep brace C fixed.
Now throw in a patio chair cushion set and give
your chair a test-sit. The back cushion should
rest on top of the seat cushion, whether they’re
a stitched assembly or separate cushions. I’m
5’11” , 150 lbs, and the chair fits me perfectly. If
you’re shorter, you can trim the sides along the
bottom so that your feet will be well supported
when you sit in the chair.
If you’re sure you want to build only the basic
configuration,  you can make the large bottom
cutouts in the sides as shown in the plans at
http://bit.ly/rokbakgithub . However, if you’re
building the Rok-Bak version, leave the sides
solid for now.
Caution
Don’t be tempted to make cutouts
in the sides under the seat. This willalmost certainly make the chair too
weak and wobbly.
Step 4: Make and Attach the
Arms
The only thing tricky about adding arms to the
chair is the mounting itself. Each side of the
chair will be taking 5 screws 5” apart, exactly
centered in the top edge, which is 1/2” wide. Be
careful: if these holes aren’t drilled properly, the
drill bit could break out the side.
You can control your drill bit better if you make
a drill bit guide. It can be a piece of sheet metal,
bent at a right angle or attached to a wood
block. In any case, drill a 1” guide hole so that
when using the guide, the guide hole will be
exactly in the center of the plywood edge.
Draw lines on the top edge of the chair sides.
Then using the drill-bit guide, drill five holes
straight down into each side.
Make the arms from 1 × 4 fir or pine. If you plan
to pad and cover the arms, this wood doesn’t
need to be the best quality, but if you’ll leave it
exposed, choose decent pieces of solid wood.
44 Make: Like the PioneersStep 4: Make and Attach the ArmsNow position an arm with the front of it over-
hanging the front of the chair side by 1/2” . This
overhang is necessary for stapling the fabric if
you pad the arms. Mark the bottom surface of
the arm to line up with the holes drilled in the
top of the side. Drill the screw clearance holes
from the bottom, which should ensure that the
screw holes line up exactly. Repeat for the other
arm.
Countersink the screw holes from the topside
of the arms so the screws will be slightly sub-
flush.  Mount each arm with five #8 × 1-1/2” flat-
head  wood screws.
Note
If you don’t want to pad the arms,
you could round the top-front
corners of the arms with a 1/4"-
radius router bit, or just sand
something close. If you do want
to pad the arms, highly recom-
mended for comfort and appear-
ance, that will be the very last
step in building the chair (step 8).
Step 5: Make the Footstool
Assembly
If you’re making just the basic chair configura-
tion,  you can survive without a footstool. But
for extra comfort, especially with the Rok-Bak,
you’ll need one.
Cut the parts and assemble the sides and cross
brace D. You can make the top as 1 piece (see
layout) or piece it together from cutout materi-
al (as shown here). Assemble the top and the 2
× 2 runners.
You can throw a pillow on the stool and help it
stay in position with Velcro™, but covered pad-
ding looks more professional. Either way, the
pillow or covering fabric should match yourchair’s cushions (if they’re striped, you might
choose a solid that’s one of the stripe colors).
If you’re padding, cut 1-1/2"-thick foam to
match the top exactly. A band saw or electric
knife works well. Cut the fabric about 4” over-
size on all sides, pull it reasonably tight (the
foam should compress slightly), and staple it in
place.
Miter the corners. Use a minimum of staples at
first,  then add more as necessary to keep the
fabric evenly taut, the foam reasonably com-
pressed, and the corners neat.
45 Chapter 7: Rok-Bak ChairStep 5: Make the Footstool AssemblyTrim as shown.
Step 6: Make the Headrest
A well-padded headrest is key to a comfortable
chair. Cover it with the same fabric you used for
the footstool. For attaching the finished  head-
rest to its support, you’ll sew on Velcro™ at least
1” wide. Adhesive Velcro™ doesn’t stick well
enough to fabric.
Cut the fabric to 22” × 22” . Secure the seam and
Velcro™ strip. You have a choice of sewing or
using fabric bonding tape. Use a sewing ma-
chine if you can. However, I found that Stitch
Witchery tape makes a surprisingly strong
seam, at least on denim.
If you’re sewing, sew an 8” Velcro™ strip to the
visible side of the fabric, about 1” from one
edge, centered. Sew all the way around the Vel-
cro™ strip adjacent to the seam (on the outside
of the sleeve), with one or more strips of bond-
ing tape between the Velcro™ and the fabric.
Iron the fabric side, not the Velcro™ side. This
means you must put the iron in the sleeve.
46 Make: Like the PioneersStep 6: Make the HeadrestCut a piece of 1-1/2” foam 19” × 12” . Tightly roll
up the foam from the short end, insert it into
the fabric sleeve, and let it unroll. About 5” of
the sleeve (22” – 12” = 10"/2 = 5”) will overhang
each end. The two ends of the foam should
butt together inside and be “circularizing” the
sleeve.
On one end, poke the surplus fabric over the
foam and into the center hole. Cut the wood
dowel, and drill both ends as shown. Attach
one 4-1/4” disk to the end of the dowel with a
2-1/2” lag bolt and washer.
Press the dowel-disk assembly, dowel first,  into
one end of the cylinder. Gather the material as
you press, and space the folds neatly around
the inside circle. Stop pressing when the out-
side face of the disk is about 1-1/2” from the
end.
From the other end, stuff  at least 4 oz of Holofil
or other stuffing  between the dowel and the in-
side wall of the cylinder. Hold the other disk to
keep it from being pushed out the end. Try to
fill all voids, keeping the dowel in the center.
The more stuffing  you can push in, the more
comfortable your headrest will be.
Fold the surplus material over the foam at the
other end.
Put a lag bolt and washer through the hole in
the second disk, then push the tip of the bolt
into the hole in the end of the dowel. Tip the
disk inward and press it into the foam core,
keeping the fabric as neat as you can. You can
press the other end’s disk in a little farther to
make it easier.
47 Chapter 7: Rok-Bak ChairStep 6: Make the HeadrestTighten the second lag bolt with a ratchet
wrench, while holding the first bolt with pliers.
Neaten your fabric folds at both ends.
Staple two small strips of Velcro™ to the head-
rest support near the top, so their outside
edges are 8” apart.
Mount the support to the bevel on cross brace
A, exactly in the center, with three #8 × 1-1/2”
screws. Temporarily stick the headrest to the
Velcro™ strips on the support and give the chair
another test-sit.
Step 7: Convert to Rok-Bak
Version (Optional)
To allow the chair to rock back, the bottoms of
the sides must be cut into shallow Vs. The tip-
ping point of the V is critical. Your Rok-Bak chair
must:
•Be completely stable when rocked
backward; do not exceed the 5-1/2”
rocker dimension on the drawing.
•Stop, with a small thump, in the
reclined position.
•Not lean prematurely; it should require
a light push with your feet but not be
difficult  to rock backward.
Temporarily disassemble the chair so that you
can make identical, accurate cuts (preferably
with a circular saw) on the bottom of each side.
Make it a shallow V, and if you’re about the
same height and weight as me (see step 3 ), you
can make the bottom cuts as dimensioned
here.
If you’re of a different  build, you should make a
few trial cuts and reassemblies, taking longer
and longer cuts until you arrive at the right bal-
ance. IMPORTANT: You must not exceed the
5-1/2” rocker dimension for safety and stability!
After each pair of cuts, reassemble the chair—
with cushions, headrest, and arms—and try it.
You’ll get pretty good at loosening and tighten-
ing lag bolts. (Use a 7/16” hex driver in your drill
to speed things up.)
Note
All is not lost if you cut too much
off; you can always take a little off
the front legs of the Vs to make
them longer.
Once you get the tipping point right, you can
finally  make the bottom cutouts in the sides.
48 Make: Like the PioneersStep 7: Convert to Rok-Bak Version (Optional)This will cause the chair to be slightly more sta-
ble in the forward position, which may turn out
to be a good thing.
Draw the cutouts (on the C side, remember?) of
both chair sides, using the 15oz can as a radius
guide. For strength, it’s important to keep the
bottom of the cutouts at least 2-3/4” from the
bottom edge of the chair. Carefully make the
cutouts with a jigsaw.
Step 8: Finish the Wood and
Pad the Arms
Remove the cushions, headrest, seat, and back.
You don’t have to disassemble the chair. Sand
all exposed surfaces down to about 120-grit pa-
per, then spray (or brush, if you must) with var-
nish or clear polyurethane, such as Deft. Several
coats, lightly sanded between each, usually
yield a nice finish.
Finally, to pad the arms, cut 3/4"-thick foam to
the size of the arms (you can also use 1” , or you
can rip 1-1/2” in half with a band saw), and
lightly mount it with spray adhesive or double-
sided mounting tape. Cover the arms with fab-
ric that matches the footrest and headrest. Trim
the underside neatly.
Step 9: Make Y ourself
Comfortable
Now drop in your cushions, stick the headrest
on, and pull up the footstool. Take a seat and
make yourself comfortable. As you would with
any rocking chair, watch out for the cat’s tail,
then rock back and dream of your next project:
adding speakers to the headrest.
Like origami, single-sheet plywood projects
transform a standard plane into countless 3D
objects. Generations of designers have worked
within this form, laying out cleverly fitted
pieces that make furniture and toys with little
or no wasted wood.
49 Chapter 7: Rok-Bak ChairStep 8: Finish the Wood and Pad the ArmsThe Lost Art of Lashing:
A Photo Essay
By Gever Tulley
518Figure 8-1 Our civilization was built on a technology so advanced, we still don’t know
everything it’s good for.Figure 8-2 But somewhere along the way, most of us have forgotten how to tie things
together.Figure 8-3 Yet, if you can tie things together securely, you can make almost anything
from practically nothing.Figure 8-4 Inside a golf ball, a long rubber band subjects the core to 10,000 pounds
of pressure. The secret is in the wrapping; every turn adds pressure.Figure 8-5 Which is the same principle at work in a lashing. The result is very strong,
but with a little bit of give.Figure 8-6 OK, get your sticks and line, and we’ll tie our first  lashing.Figure 8-7 This takes a little bit of practice, so expect to start over a couple of times.Figure 8-8 Always keep the line tight and tidy as you lay it down. Keep going until you
have enough wraps.Figure 8-9 8 to 10 wraps for twine and string.Figure 8-10 Then, to really crank up the tension, add crossing wraps.Figure 8-11 Then tie it off with a surgeon’s knot (which is just an overhand with an
extra twist.) Almost done.Figure 8-12 Now we lock the surgeon’s knot in with a square knot. There are fancier
ways to do this, but this is sufficient  and easy to remember.Figure 8-13 It is critical that the lashing is tight.Figure 8-14 So if one joint gets loose, you can whittle a wedge and pound it under the
line to tighten it.Figure 8-15 If you need to make a longer stick from two short ones, overlap and lash
‘em.Figure 8-16 Add a few loops across the lashing to tighten it up nicely.Figure 8-17 T ying three sticks can be tricky, so instead of lashing all three together ...Figure 8-18 ... you can just lash them in pairs.Figure 8-19 You can run the lashing between many sticks at once to create a quick
decking.Figure 8-20 A secure, flexible  connection is made by running the lashing between the
sticks.Figure 8-21 The same technique can accommodate three sticks for a tripod. These
tripods are stable and strong and can be a foundation for other structures.Figure 8-22 Some durable line is used to keep the legs from splaying.Figure 8-23 A natural fork can add strength to your construction. And you only have
to lash to the strongest side; gravity does the rest.Figure 8-24 If the line slips on the wood, carve out a couple of notches to give it some
purchase.Figure 8-25 Making sketches always helps. And when you need real compression, a
few long loops around a pair of poles...Figure 8-26  ... and a short stick make for a highly effective  turnbuckle.Figure 8-27  Not everything has to be sticks. We’ll just finish  it off with a heavier line
here to make a railing.Figure 8-28 Stable and strong; you can make almost anything with lashing!PART III
EveningPickle Grapes and Beets
at Home
—Quick and tasty, vinegar pickling
is great for preserving a surprising
variety of fruits and veggies.
By Kelly McVicker
When you hear the word pickle, what comes to
mind? A salty brined cucumber, slices of mango
preserved in oil, or maybe a bowl of pungent
kimchi? Pickling is a tradition found in virtually
every culture on Earth. Mango pickles from In-
dia taste nothing like German sauerkraut, but
the underlying process is the same.
Pickling transforms flavor  and preserves food
by raising the acidity to prohibit the growth ofmicroorganisms that cause spoilage. The acid
can be added in two ways:
Fermenting —This involves adding salt and al-
lowing the food to sit for a period of time, while
beneficial  bacteria transform natural sugars in-
to lactic acid.
Vinegar pickling —In this process, the acid
comes from vinegar. Food is packed in a vine-
gar-based brine and allowed to sit for anywhere
from a few hours to several months to achieve
full flavor.
As a kid growing up in Kansas, I learned vinegar
pickling from my grandmas and my mom. Even
though I’ve become increasingly enchanted
with fermentation, I still turn to the vinegar
method when I want to make several jars of the
same thing and store them without refrigera-
tion, whether for holiday gifts or just for stock-
ing for my own pickle pantry.
839Tools
•Mason jars, pint or quart, with two-piece
lids. I recommend using button-top lids.
•Medium saucepan.
•Measuring spoons.
•For Canning Beets
—Water bath canner or stockpot
with metal rack large enough
to cover jars with 2” of water
—Canning tongs (optional).
—Wide-mouth funnel (optional).
—Lid lifter (optional).
Vinegar pickling usually gives more consistent
results, since it quickly “shocks” the fruit or veg-
gies to preserve them rather than waiting on
the creation of new bacteria. And while vinegar
pickling doesn’t create probiotics, it does keep
most of the nutrients intact. It’s also more suit-
able for preserving foods without refrigeration.
If you seal your pickles using the water bath
canning process described in the recipe for Gin-
gery Golden Beets, you can store them at room
temperature for up to a year.
I like these two recipes because they show just
how far beyond cucumbers your pickling ex-
periments can take you. The grapes are sharp
and a bit spicy; the beets mildly sweet with a
ginger-plus-vinegar tang. Both pair deliciously
with creamy cheeses. I like to toss them both
with some arugula, goat cheese, and a little vi-
naigrette made from the brine for a pickled sal-
ad snack.
Spiced Pickled Grapes
Step 1: Assemble the Ingredients
Grapes are perfect for pickling: firm  and natu-
rally acidic, with a soft skin that brine can per-
meate quickly. This recipe gives a deep, sweet
flavor  with surprising hints of savory from the
garlic and bay leaf. Use Sichuan peppercorns if
you can, for that special tongue tingle:
•3 lbs red seedless grapes, such as
Flame Seedless or Ruby Roman, firm
but ripe
•1-1/2 cups apple cider vinegar
•1-1/2 cups red wine vinegar
•1-1/2 cups water
•1-1/2 cups sugar
•2 tsp salt
•3 tsp Sichuan peppercorns or black
peppercorns
84 Make: Like the PioneersSpiced Pickled Grapes•3 tsp mustard seeds
•2” piece of ginger, sliced thinly
•2 garlic cloves, sliced thinly
•3 segments star anise
•3 bay leaves
Step 2: Preparation
Remove all stems from the grapes. Rinse, pat
dry, and set aside.
In a medium saucepan, combine vinegars, wa-
ter, sugar, and salt and bring to a boil, stirring
occasionally to dissolve. Reduce to a low sim-
mer.
Distribute the spices evenly between the jars,
except for a few pieces of ginger and garlic, and
the bay leaves.
Step 3: Packing
Fill jars with grapes, taking care not to crush
them, and leaving at least 1” of space at the
top. Add the last pieces of garlic, ginger, and
bay leaves around the outside of the jars.
Step 4: Pouring
Pour hot brine over the grapes, submerging
them all.
85 Chapter 9: Pickle Grapes and Beets at HomeSpiced Pickled GrapesStep 5: Storing
Put lids on jars, then let cool to room tempera-
ture before refrigerating.
Let sit in the refrigerator 48 hours before tast-
ing. These grapes will keep in the refrigerator
for up to two months, their flavor  intensifying
with time.
Gingery Golden Beets
Step 1: Assemble the Ingredients
Golden beets are milder than red ones. Because
beets are dense and naturally low in acid, you’ll
take a few extra steps for pickling them. The
water bath canning process creates a vacuum
seal that makes the jars shelf-stable for a year.
•4 lbs small golden beets•3-1/2 cups white vinegar
•1-1/2 cups water
•1 cup sugar
•2” piece of ginger, sliced very thinly
•20 black peppercorns
Step 2: Preparation
Bring a large pot of water to a boil. If you’ll be
canning your pickles, also bring a canning pot
or another large stockpot to boil.
Remove beet tops, then scrub clean. Cook
beets in boiling water until tender enough to
pierce with a fork, about 10–15 minutes. Drain
and cover with cold water to stop the cooking.
86 Make: Like the PioneersGingery Golden BeetsCombine vinegar, water, and sugar in a medium
saucepan and slowly bring to a boil.
Peel and cut beets into medium-sized cubes or
1/2"-thick rounds.
Step 3: Packing
Pack the beets into clean pint-sized mason jars,
leaving 1” of headspace.
Pour the hot liquid over the beets, covering
them completely but leaving 1/2” of head-
space. Use a chopstick or other nonmetallic in-
strument to remove air bubbles, then add more
brine if necessary to keep 1/2” of headspace.
Step 4: Sealing
Seal the jars. Wipe rim with a paper towel, cen-
ter a clean flat canning lid on top, screw on thelid band, and tighten to resistance. Don’t over-
tighten, or air can not escape during canning.
(If skipping the canning process, refrigerate
once the jars cool.)
Step 5: Boiling
Using canning tongs or another heatproof
utensil, put jars in a canner or a large stockpot
with enough water to cover the tops by 1"–2” .
Boil 25 minutes.
Step 6: Testing
Turn off heat and remove jars to cool to room
temperature. After an hour, check for a seal by
pressing down on the indentation in the mid-
dle of the lid. (If the button can be pushed
down, the jar hasn’t sealed—store it in the
fridge and consume within a month.)
87 Chapter 9: Pickle Grapes and Beets at HomeGingery Golden BeetsSealed jars will keep at room temperature for
one year. After opening, refrigerate and con-
sume within a month.
Kelly McVicker is the owner of McVicker Pickles. Af-
ter spending several years raising money forwomen’s human rights, she returned to her 4-H
roots and jumped headfirst  into the cutthroat
world of small-batch pickling. She’s a fiend  for
farmers markets and goes bonkers for a good
brine.
88 Make: Like the PioneersGingery Golden BeetsBrine and Roast a Turkey
By Katie Goodman
Now that Halloween is over, I feel like the holi-
day season is ready to begin. I love all the cook-
ing and baking that happens this time of year,
but most of all, I love how the family gatherings
always end up in the kitchen. 
I’m lucky that as a young bride, my mother-in-
law gave me some excellent tips when it was
time for me to host my first Thanksgiving. I es-
pecially appreciated her tips on how to roast a
turkey. She introduced me to brining, some-
thing I had never before heard of, but I knew
that the turkey I had eaten at her home was the
best I’d ever had, so I followed her advice. Here
is my twist on the brine recipe she first gave
me, as well some great tips for roasting a flavor-ful turkey. Anyone who’s ever eaten my turkey
says it’s the best they’ve ever had. And it’s all
thanks to my mother-in-law. I’m lucky to have
such a sweet one!
The leftover turkey carcass from this recipe
makes the best homemade turkey broth, which
will go great alongside your side dishes and
pumpkin pie.
Brine
Ingredients
•16-pound turkey
•3 c kosher salt
•1 c brown sugar
•1-1/2 tsp pepper
•4 bay leaves
•4 stems fresh thyme
•3 stems fresh sage
•1 Tbs minced garlic
•1 gallon boiling water
•8 pounds ice cubes
8910Step 1: Mixing
Stir together the salt, brown sugar, pepper, bay
leaves, thyme, sage, and garlic in a large stock
pot. Add 1 gallon of water. Bring to a boil, re-
move from heat, and allow the mixture to steep
for 25 minutes. Stir in enough ice to bring the
brine amount up to 2 gallons (2 gallons = 32
cups).
Note
If your pot is not large enough,
you may have to allow the brine
to cool and add the additional
amount when pouring the brine
into the bag in the following step.Step 2: Soaking
Place the turkey in a large zip-top bag. I
recommend the Ziploc Big Bags  (size large). Put
the bagged turkey in a clean cooler. Pour the
brine over the turkey, in the bag, making sure
the breasts are fully submerged. Zip the bag
closed. Place the cooler in a cool place, such as
your garage, and allow the turkey to soak in the
cold brine for 12-24 hours.
Use gel packs or bagged ice around the zipped
bag inside the cooler, if necessary, to keep the
brine below 40°F. (Adding more ice directly to
the brine would only dilute it.)
After the brining process, transfer the turkey to
a roasting pan and discard the brine.
Note
For a smaller turkey, you may
make less brine; however, be
careful to do so with the original
proportions of ingredient still in-
tact. Too much salt will leave you
with an incredibly salty turkey. Al-
so, birds less than 10 pounds will
likely not need to soak for the full
24 hours to achieve the desired
results.
90 Make: Like the PioneersBrineGarlic Herb Butter
Ingredients
•8 Tbs butter, softened
•3 cloves garlic, minced
•3 tsp fresh thyme leaves
•3 tsp fresh sage leaves, chopped
•1 tsp fresh rosemary, minced
•1/2 tsp black pepper
Step 1: Mixing
Combine all the ingredients in a bowl.
Step 2: Rubbing
Rub the butter all over the inside of the turkey
cavity. Lift the skin covering the turkey breast
meat and rub butter on top of the meat. Place
the skin back down. Continue with roasting in-
structions.
Roasting
Step 1: Placing
Adjust the oven rack to the lowest position. Pre-
heat the oven to 400°F. Place a V-rack in your
roasting pan. Place the turkey, breast side
down, on the V-rack. Pour two cups of water in
the bottom of the pan.
Step 2: Stuffing
Place a quartered carrot, celery, and onion in-
side the turkey cavity if you aren’t stuffing  it. An
unstuffed  turkey will cook faster. If you are
stuffing  the turkey, do not tightly pack it in.
91 Chapter 10: Brine and Roast a T urkeyGarlic Herb ButterStep 3: Roasting
Tie the legs together using kitchen twine. Fold
the wing tips under the turkey. Drizzle olive oil
or melted butter on the outside of the turkey, if
desired. Roast for 90 minutes.
Step 4: Checking
Remove the turkey from the oven and turn it
breast side up.  It helps to have a big wad of pa-
per towels in each hand so you can easily flip it
without slipping or burning yourself. Baste the
turkey with pan drippings. Add an additional
cup of water to the pan. Roast the turkey for an
additional 40-65 minutes or until the meat ther-mometer inserted in the breast registers
160-165°F and the leg/thigh registers at about
170°F. Check to make sure the pan drippings
and water have not completely evaporated,
causing the herbs to burn. If the turkey begins
to brown too much before it has reached the
correct temperatures, cover it with foil.
Step 5: Resting
Transfer the turkey to a platter and allow it to
rest for 20 minutes before carving. Use this time
for any last minute preparations. This is the per-
fect time to put the rolls in the oven, make
gravy or a salad, or set the table.
92 Make: Like the PioneersRoastingRoasting Pumpkin Seeds
By Katie Goodman
After you’ve made homemade pumpkin puree
or carved your pumpkins for Halloween, don’t
throw the seeds away! They make a great snack
when you roast them. Roasting pumpkin seeds
is really simple, just watch and see.
Ingredients and Materials
•1-1/2 cups pumpkin seeds
•2 teaspoons butter, melted
•2 teaspoons olive or canola oil
•Salt, to taste
•Cumin, to taste
•Paper towel
•Foil
•Oven
•Baking sheet
•Wooden spoon
Step 1: Rinse
9311Rinse all the excess pumpkin flesh  and gunk off
of the seeds.
Step 2: Place
Lay the seeds out on a paper towel to dry. (This
can be done days in advance. If you’re prepar-
ing your seeds earlier than you need, just place
the completely dry seeds in an airtight contain-
er or resealable bag.)
Step 3: Heat
Meanwhile, line a baking sheet with foil and
preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Step 4: Drizzle
Combine the melted butter and olive oil.
Spread the seeds on the lined baking sheet.
Drizzle with the oil and butter mixture and toss
to coat.
Step 5: Redistribute
Redistribute the seeds so they are spaced out
across the pan.Step 6: Season
Season to taste with salt, and if desired, another
spice (such as cumin or cinnamon).
Step 7: Roast
Roast at 350 degrees F for 20-30 minutes, stir-
ring to toss the seeds halfway through.
94 Make: Like the PioneersStep 2: PlaceStep 8: Eat
 Remove and cool until you are able to handle
the seeds. Eat and enjoy!
Pumpkin seeds are great eaten alone as a
snack, but they also serve as a great garnish or
topping for a variety of dishes, from desserts to
salads.
95 Chapter 11: Roasting Pumpkin SeedsStep 8: EatPART IV
NightDa Vinci Reciprocating
Mechanism
Figure 12-1 Recreate Renaissance tech to convert
rotation into a square wave.
By Alan Federman
Last year I was blown away by the clever mech-
anisms displayed in the Leonardo da Vinci ex-
hibit at the Tech Museum of Innovation  in San
Jose. I was especially taken by da Vinci’s simple
mechanism for powering a sawmill with a water
wheel. I made my own tabletop model of the
mechanism, and it never fails to gather a crowd
when I show it off.
The typical mechanism for converting between
rotation and reciprocal motion is a ﬂywheel and
a crankshaft, like on a steam locomotive. But da
Vinci’s simple device starts with two modiﬁed
cage gears (aka lantern gears) that rotate on acommon shaft. Each cage has half of its teeth
missing, on opposite sides of the shaft from the
other gear, so that when turned, they alternate-
ly engage with the pegs on opposite sides of a
large wheel.
When you turn the shaft at a constant rate, this
mechanism generates square-wave motion,
rather than the sinusoidal motion of a piston.
This is because each cage gear turns the wheel
at a constant speed, and it lets go right before
the other one comes pushing full-speed to turn
the wheel the other direction.
Materials and Tools
•1/4” birch plywood, 12” × 18”
•1/4” wood dowel, 36” long
•1/2” × 1/2” square wood molding, at
least 4” long aka square dowel
•Wood glue
•Band saw or jigsaw
•Drill press with circle cutter and 1/4” ,
17/64” , and 9/32” bits
•Laser cutter (optional) instead of the
band/jigsaw and drill press
•Small saw for cutting dowels
•File, sanding block with medium-grit
sandpaper, or Dremel with sanding bit
9912•Glue gun with hot glue C-clamps (2)
•Spray adhesive and computer with
printer for the paper templates, if you
don’t use a laser cutter
Step 1: Cut the Pieces
I built my initial prototype by hand, and it took
a lot of trial and error to get the peg spacing
right. So I made a more precise second version
by laying out the plywood pieces in Google
SketchUp then importing them into CorelDraw
and using the Corel ﬁles to cut them on an Epi-
log laser cutter.
The main plywood pieces you need to cut are
four identical discs for the cage gears and a
larger disc for the wheel ( Figure 12-2 ). Each
cage gear disc is 2.06” in diameter, with 10
equidistant 1/4” holes spaced 0.84” away from
its center point. The wheel is 6.4” wide with 36
equidistant 1/4” holes spaced 2.95” from its
center.
Figure 12-2 The main plywood pieces for the base, large
gear, two cage gears (aka lantern gears), and one of the
two towers.
To match da Vinci’s plan, I also cut eight inter-
locking rectangular pieces that assemble into
the two towers that hold the crankshaft. You
can download my SketchUp and Corel ﬁles at
http://bit.ly/davincigithub , along with full-size
PDF templates that you can use to make the
pieces by hand.If you’re cutting by hand, print out the three
full-size templates, cut the shapes out of the
paper, and temporarily afﬁx them to the ply-
wood with spray adhesive. Drill all the holes be-
fore you cut the discs out of the plywood,
17/64” holes in the center and 1/4” holes
around the perimeter. Functionally, the mecha-
nism needs only 26 holes cut, 4 in each cage
gear disc and 10 in the large wheel. But I cut
holes all the way around the perimeters of all
the discs, 76 total, so that I could use the parts
for other purposes, such as a crank assembly for
a crane.
In addition to the discs, you need plywood
pieces for the base and the towers. The base is
simply a 10” square with a 17/64” hole in the
center to hold a vertical axle peg for the wheel.
The two towers sit on either side of the wheel
and hold the drive shaft above it horizontally. I
used the laser cutter to fashion them out of in-
terlocking pieces of 1/4” plywood, and you can
also make them by cutting and gluing simple
plywood rectangles; the PDF templates include
plans for both. You can also cut the towers out
of solid blocks. But don’t drill the tower holes
yet; you’ll do this later, to ensure they’re at the
correct height.
From the 1/4” dowel, you need to cut 1 12”
length for the drive shaft, 1 2” length for the
hand crank, 8 1-1/4” pegs for the cage gears, 1
1” peg for the wheel’s axle, and 10 5/8” pegs for
the wheel’s gearing ( Figure 12-3 ). If you mark
the pegs for cutting all at once, include some
extra length for the width of the saw blade, or
else the pegs might wind up too short.
100 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Cut the PiecesFigure 12-3 Dowels, wooden washers, and crank
assembly parts. The same dowel is used to make the
crankshaft and gear pegs.
From the 1/2” square dowel, cut and drill two
thin slices to make washers that will ﬁt over the
drive shaft. Also cut a 2” block, and drill two
parallel 17/64” holes through the block at op-
posite ends. Then cut another short piece, file it
to make a round knob, and drill a blind 17/64”
hole halfway into the knob.
Step 2: Assemble and Adjust
Build the two lantern gears by gluing four
1-1/4” pegs, positioned contiguously, between
each pair of the smaller discs. Use wood glue
and make sure the discs are aligned parallel
(Figure 12-4 ).
Figure 12-4 The two lantern gears after assembly.For the wheel axle, glue a 1” peg into the hole
in the center of the base. Don’t glue the towers
together yet.
Sand or file one end of each 5/8” peg so that it’s
slightly rounded and tapered on two opposite
edges; this helps the pegs engage with the
cage gears ( Figure 12-5 ).
Figure 12-5 It’s helpful to taper the pegs for the large
gear; this will help them to mesh smoothly with the cage
gears.
Glue the pegs into the wheel, 5 in a row on op-
posite sides, with 13 empty holes (or undrilled
hole positions) between them in each direction
(Figure 12-6 ). The pegs should sit flush  with the
underside of the wheel, stick up 3/8” from the
top face, and be oriented with their tapered
edges facing the neighboring pegs. Let every-
thing dry overnight. Get some sleep; tomorrow
we have fun.
Figure 12-6 The main gear assembled.
101 Chapter 12: Da Vinci Reciprocating MechanismStep 2: Assemble and AdjustFitting the gears together is a bit tricky and
takes some patience. First, fit the wheel over
the axle.
Then mesh a lantern gear with the wheel’s pegs
on one side and use it to find  the correct height
for the crankshaft. This is the hardest part, but
it’s critical to smooth operation.
The best way is to drill two of the wide tower
pieces a little above where you think the crank-
shaft should go. You can mark the point by run-
ning a ballpoint pen filler  through the cage
gear ( Figure 12-7 ). Use a 9/32” bit so that the
crankshaft spins freely.
Figure 12-7 T o measure the proper height for drilling the
mounting towers, mesh a cage gear with the large gear’s
pegs, and mark where the shaft will meet the tower. Then
drill slightly above your mark.
Then repeatedly clamp down the two tower
pieces, test the drive shaft through them, and
sand down the tower’s bottoms evenly until
you reach a good height. (As an alternative, you
could make the tower heights adjustable with a
tongue-and-groove and a small setscrew, but
this cheats the nice all-wood feel of the
project.)
Once you have the proper height, stack the
other tower pieces and cut and drill them to
match. Glue the tower pieces together.
Figure 12-8 It’s important to drill the tower holes
squarely, so the crankshaft won’t act squirrely.
For final  adjusting, hot-glue the towers to the
base. Assemble the crankshaft through the
towers, hot-gluing the cage gears in place.
Figure 12-9 Mounting the first  tower. If it’s a bit too high,
you can sand down the bottom. If it’s too low, you can
shim it up.
Work the mechanism in both directions and
watch closely to see where any pegs stick, then
sand down the pegs and cage gear dowels as
needed ( Figure 12-10 ).
102 Make: Like the PioneersStep 2: Assemble and AdjustFigure 12-10 Adjusting the height of the peg teeth and
rounding them slightly with a file is an alternative way to
fine-tune  the operation.
When everything works smoothly, mark the
precise locations of the cage gears on the
crank- shaft, the towers on the base, and the
shaft where it exits the towers; you’ll glue the
wooden washers here to prevent the shaft from
sliding back and forth. You can put the washers
inboard or outboard of the towers; outboard
makes it easier to test-glue and adjust the
washers.Using wood glue, permanently reglue the tow-
ers to the base (rethreading the crankshaft if
necessary to add your washers), and reglue the
cage gears in place. Hot-glue the washers in
place, test the mechanism again, then reglue
them permanently.
Finally, glue the crank pieces onto the longer
protruding end of the crankshaft, and crank 
away ( Figure 12-11 ).
Figure 12-11 Once everything works properly, add the
crank.
103 Chapter 12: Da Vinci Reciprocating MechanismStep 2: Assemble and AdjustOil Lamp from the Cave
Dwellers of Lascaux
Figure 13-1 What your iPhone is to you, the oil lamp may
well have been to the cave dweller.
By William Gurstelle
In Africa, Europe, and China, field  scientists
have uncovered the fossilized remains of camp-
fire-charred  bones so old that they likely pre-
date Homo sapiens. The archaeological evi-
dence suggests that our humanoid ancestors
began taming fire perhaps as long as 1 million
years ago.
While these creatures most likely lacked the
wherewithal to kindle fire, they did, it seems,
have the mental capacity to capture naturally
occurring fire, tend it, and preserve it for long
periods. For ancient hominids, campfires  wereimportant not only for warmth and cooking,
but also for light.
About 15,000 to 30,000 years ago, in the Late
Stone Age (or Upper Paleolithic), humans pain-
ted elaborate images deep within several caves
in western Europe, the best-known being those
of Lascaux in southwestern France. Narrow and
deep, the caves are impenetrable to daylight,
making it impossible for the artists to have
painted without some sustained source of arti-
ficial  light.
Experts postulate that these primitive Rem-
brandts placed a few lumps of animal fat on a
stone with a small manmade depression, then
lit the fat with a burning faggot from the al-
ways-tended campfire  not far away. The evi-
dence indicates that in order to produce the
hundreds of artworks now considered some of
the world’s oldest, the painters must have man-
ufactured some of the world’s first lamps as
well.
As human culture progressed, so did lamp con-
struction. Lamps were made from shells, bone,
stone, and chalk, and were fueled by whatever
naturally burning, organic substance was local-
ly available. In the far north, it was whale blub-
ber. In parts of the Middle East, lamps were fu-
eled by petroleum, products such as liquid as-
10513phalt and naphtha, collected from seeps in the
ground.
Today the ancient lamps most frequently depic-
ted are those formed from fired  clay that
burned olive oil. African and Levantine lamps
had open tops and were often hung on chains
from the ceiling.
Later, great numbers of Roman lamps were
manufactured using molds instead of hand-
forming techniques. They’re among the earliest
examples of mass-produced housewares. Ro-
man lamps had covers and sometimes multiple
spouts and wicks that provided considerable
light. It was in the orange-red glow of burning
oil lamps that people like Aristophanes wrote,
Socrates philosophized, and Archimedes inven-
ted.
Designing and fabricating a simple olive oil
lamp is easy and fun, and quite possibly, useful.
But best of all, when you do it, you form a con-
nection with the technology of the past, of the
earliest times of human civilization. What your
iPhone is to you, the oil lamp may well have
been to the cave dweller.
Materials and Tools
•1 lb air-dry clay. Not all air-dry clays
become waterproof when cured. For
non-waterproof clays, the lamp interior
may be coated with varnish or sealant if
necessary, to prevent oil leaks.
•Fabric, 100% cotton, 3/4 inch wide, up to
4 inches long. Enough to make a wick.
•Olive oil. Enough to fill the lamp.
•Varnish, or glaze, waterproof if using
non-waterproof clays. Enough to glaze
the finished  lamp.
•Scissors
•Scribes for inserting the wick into the
spout, and for adding decoration
(optional)Step 1: Make the Lamp
Most clay or terra cotta oil lamps work the same
way. The fiber  skein or string that holds the
flame  is called the wick. Hydrocarbon com-
pounds in the oil are wicked to the flame
through the fibers  via a phenomenon called ca-
pillary action. The upward-drawing motion of
capillary action results from surface tension, or
the attraction of molecules to molecules of sim-
ilar kind. The oil molecules follow one another
up the wick where they burn, or put a bit more
scientifically,  oxidize in a high-temperature,
self-sustaining exothermic reaction.
An oil lamp is basically a reservoir for oil with a
support to hold the wick upright. In practical
terms this becomes a clay pot with a spout for a
wick and a separate hole for adding the oil.
Making a lamp on a potter’s wheel is a simple
task, as you need only throw a simple bowl,
then pinch the wet clay to form a spout for the
wick. You can even make a decent lamp with
just your hands.
Step 2: Shape the Lamp
Olive oil lamps are simple enough to make
without a potter’s wheel. Almost any shape can
be used, as long as it holds oil without leaking
or spilling and has a spout and a filling  hole.
Once your lamp is shaped to your liking, follow
directions on the clay package to cure and
106 Make: Like the PioneersStep 1: Make the Lampharden it. Air-dry clay may be used if a kiln isn’t
available; just paint the interior with varnish to
make it waterproof if it’s not already.
The simplest shape is a saucer lamp. Raised
edges hold the oil, and a single depression in
the rim forms the wick spout.
Over time, the saucer lamp was superseded by
the covered lamp. The covered lamp has sever-
al advantages: it’s less likely to spill, it usually
has molded handles to make it easier and safer
to transport, and the cover prevents contami-
nants from entering the oil reservoir.
Optional:  Improve the finish  of your lamp by
lightly buffing  it with cloth. Lamps can be de-
tailed with scribes or knives, drilled, or sanded if
desired. Lamps were commonly decorated with
motifs that included mythology, animal and
plant life, and repeating abstract designs.
Step 3: Make a Wick and Fill
the Lamp
Cut a piece of cotton cloth 3/4” wide × 4” long
(the exact length depends on the size of your
lamp). Braid or twist the cloth in a tightly spi-
raled wick. Fill the lamp with olive oil.
Insert the wick into the lamp’s spout. Using a
scribe or other narrow tool, position the wick so
it extends from the bottom of the oil lamp to
approximately 1/2” above the spout. Trim the
excess with scissors. Be sure the wick is satura-
ted with oil.
Use under adult supervision only. Olive oil is
flammable.  Avoid spills, and use the lamp with
care to avoid fire danger.
107 Chapter 13: Oil Lamp from the Cave Dwellers of LascauxStep 3: Make a Wick and Fill the LampOlive oil produces a beautiful, soft orange flame
but also considerable soot and smoke. Carefullychoose the location where you use the oil lamp
to avoid getting soot on walls and ceilings. Oil
lamps may set off smoke detectors.
Light the wick and enjoy the warm, soft light.
You may need to trim the wick at intervals with
the scissors to make it burn faster or slower de-
pending on the amount of light you want it to
produce.
Every issue of Make Magazine since Volume 4 has
contained a piece written by William Gurstelle. He
continues to develop new DIY stuff  in his St. Paul,
Minnesota workshop.
108 Make: Like the PioneersStep 3: Make a Wick and Fill the LampIndex
A
African lamps, 106
American Colonial style, 33
Apland, Michelle, 3
apple cider, 11-16
arms, chair, 44
B
bacon soap, 7-10
beets, golden, pickled, 86-88
bolts, for chairs, 43
bookbinding, 25-30
bow drill, 3-5
brine, for turkey, 89
C
cage gears, 99
Campden tablets, for sterilization,
12
capillary action, 106
chair, Rok-Bak, 39-49
China, 19
cider, 11-16
Corel Draw, 100
Cotton, Larry, 39-49
couching, 20
cover boards, 28
covered lamp, 107cow muck, distressing furniture
with, 37
cross braces, 42
curing (bacon soap), 9
D
da Vinci reciprocating mechanism,
99-103
deckle, 20
distressing wood, 35, 37
drill, bow, 3-5
dye, for bacon soap, 9
E
Epilog laser cutter, 100
exothermic reactions, 106
F
fastening, by lashing, 51
Federman, Alan, 99-103
felts (couching sheets), 20
fermentation
cider, 15
for pickling, 83
fire, bow drill for starting, 3-5
Flying Deer Nature Center, 3
food and drinkbrined and roasted turkey,
89-92
cider, 11-16
golden beets, 86-88
pickling grapes and beets,
83-88
roasted pumpkin seeds, 93-95
spiced pickled grapes, 84-86
fools stool, 33-38
footstool, 45
furniture
fools stool, 33-38
Rok-Bak chair, 39-49
G
garlic herb butter, 91
golden beets, pickled, 86-88
Goodman, Katie, 89-92, 93-95
Google Sketchup, 100
grapes, spiced pickled, 84-86
Gurstelle, William, 105-108
H
hard cider, 11-16
headrest, 46
Homo sapiens, 105
housewares (oil lamp), 105-108
humanoids, 105
hydrometer, 14
109J
Jacobean style, 33
jigsaw, minimizing splintering
with, 41, 42
joinery, 35
juicer, 12
junk mail, making paper from, 19
K
King, Tim, 7-10
L
lamp, oil, 105-108
lantern gears, 99, 101
Lascaux caves, France, 105
lashing, 51
Late Stone Age, 105
Leonardo da Vinci, 99
Levantine lamps, 106
lye, 8
M
machinery (da Vinci reciprocating
mechanism), 99-103
magazines, hardcover binding for,
25-30
McVicker, Kelly, 83-88
mold, papermaking, 20
mull, 27
O
oil lamp from cave dwellers of
Lascaux, 105-108
olive oil, as lamp fuel, 106, 108
oxidization, 106
P
Paleolithic, 105papermaking, 19-24
pegs
for gears, 101
for stool, 36
pickling, 83-88
golden beets, 86-88
spiced grapes, 84-86
plywood
for da Vinci reciprocating
mechanism, 99-103
for Rok-Bak chair, 39-49
pour mold, 20
pulp
about, 20
making, 21
pouring, 21
pumpkin seeds, roasting, 93-95
R
reciprocating mechanism, da
Vinci, 99-103
recycling, papermaking as, 19-24
roasting
pumpkin seeds, 93-95
turkey, 91
Roman lamps, 106
S
safety tips
choosing cider apples, 12
for chair assembly, 43
for oil lamps, 107
for whole-fruit juicers, 14
working with lye, 8
saucer lamp, 107
Sayer, Brian, 25-30
seeds, pumpkin, roasted, 93-95
shellac, 38
signatures, bookbinding, 26-27
soap, bacon, 7-10
soot, 108
splintering, minimizing, with
jigsaw, 41, 42stain, 38
sterilization, 12
Stewart, Nevin J., 11-17
stool
fools, 33-38
for chair, 45
stuffing,  turkey, 91
T
Tech Museum of Innovation (San
Jose, California), 99
Thorburn, Gordon, 33-38
Tremayne, Wendy, 3-6
Tulley, Gever, 51
turkey, brining and roasting, 89-92
U
Upper Paleolithic, 105
V
Velcro, 45
Vigneault, Francois, 19-24
vinegar pickling, 83-88
W
whole fruit juicer, 12
wick, 106
wood glue, 35
Y
yeast, 14
110 IndexColophon
The cover images are photographs taken Ed Troxell, Julie Speigler, Samantha Gough, Tim King, and
Helen Stewart. The cover fonts are URW Typewriter and Guardian Sans. The text font is Adobe Min-
ion Pro; the heading font is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu
Mono.