92 Beef Salpicón1
The World of 
Mexican Cooking
In this chapter, you will learn a bit about Mexico’s many culinary 
regions and some foundational ingredients of Mexican cooking, such 
as chiles, condiments, and herbs that are typically found in Mexican 
home kitchens. There’s also a list of equipment needed for cook -
ing authentic Mexican meals and a guide for roasting and toasting 
vegetables and peppers to develop the fabulous smoky flavors char -
acteristic of many favorite Mexican dishes. 12 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGThe Culinary Regions 
of Mexico
Mexican cooking is diverse and complex. The ancient Maya and Aztec civili -
zations’ diets, from which it descends, included corn, game meats, fish, cacao, 
and chiles. During the Spanish conquest, other ingredients such as wheat, 
pork, dairy products, and spices were introduced. The combination of these 
cultures created what we know now as Mexican cuisine.
Spanish nuns also played their part. Nuns used traditional Spanish recipes 
from the Old World and incorporated local ingredients to substitute for those 
not found in the New World. That is how mestizo cooking was born. Examples 
of fusion or mestizo dishes include tinga and mole.
Mexican cuisine varies according to the region. For example, in the North, 
the foods produced are mainly beef, dairy, wheat, and corn. Thus, in Northern 
Mexican–inspired cuisine, these ingredients take center stage. In the South, 
however, typical dishes include fish, bananas, and other tropical ingredients 
that are abundant there. But no matter the region, what unites them all is the 
love that home cooks incorporate when preparing each dish.
The North
The North comprises Sonora, Coahuila, Chihuahua, Durango, Baja California, 
Tamaulipas, Nuevo Leon, Zacatecas, and Aguascalientes. This area is ranching 
country. Cattle, grains, and dairy are the primary sources of food; therefore, 
beef, milk, and cheese are the main proteins. Corn plays a critical role in the 
diet, including sweet drinks such as pinole and savory soups made of dried 
corn and chile colorado. Grilled steaks, alambres, and the popular dried meat 
called machaca are popular among working families. A variety of cheeses, 
including the famous Chihuahua asadero and queso ranchero, are wide -
spread, too. Also unique from the North are the different types of flour tortillas 
made there (a whopping 40 types between savory and sweet!). For example, 
Sonora’s flour tortillas are thin and large, whereas Chihuahua’s are small and 
thick. Sonorans’ favorite treats are coyotas, hand pies made of dough, milk, 
and sugar and filled with shredded piloncillo.3 The World of Mexican CookingNorth Pacific Coast
The states of the North Pacific Coast include Sinaloa, Colima, Jalisco, and 
Nayarit. This region is known for its agriculture, and it is where most of Mex -
ico’s staples such as tomatoes, grains, and chiles are produced. The region 
is also known for its abundance of seafood from the Pacific Ocean: sailfish, 
swordfish, amberjack tuna, and snapper, to mention just a few. The geographic 
location and the combination of land and sea influence the local cuisine. 
Sinaloa is the home of aguachile, the chilorio, and the marlin, while Jalisco 
is famous for its birria, tortas ahogadas, and tequila. In Nayarit, the frijoles 
puercos are a typical treat for parties and family gatherings; this dish’s main 
ingredient is frijoles azufrados, a bean that is characteristic of the North Pacific 
Coast and one of its culinary staples.
South Pacific Coast
The South Pacific Coast of Mexico has miles and miles of sandy beaches, 
mountainous tropical forests, rugged lands, and rocky cliffs. Agriculture and 
tourism are the main economic activities in the region, which comprises the 
states of Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Guerrero. This area has remained populated 
by the Mixtec and Zapotec cultures, and the cuisine has embraced those 
indigenous roots by keeping traditional cooking techniques and ingredients. 
Oaxaca is the home of mole negro and chocolate, Chiapas is known for clas -
sic tamales and enfrijoladas, and Guerrero for pozole blanco and pescado a 
la talla.
Bajío
The Bajío region contains the Michoacán, Guanajuato, Queretaro, and San 
Luis Potosí states. The region is located in the northwest center of Mexico, 
near the Lerma River. This area is considered the breadbasket of Mexico, as 
it produces wheat, corn, beans, peanuts, and strawberries. This region was 
home to the first Spanish colony, and that legacy has influenced the customs 
and local cuisine. This includes the introduction of pork and dairy, which is why 
Michoacán is famous for its carnitas and cotija cheese. Guanajuato is known 
for its strawberries, cajeta, arroz con leche, buñuelos, and enchiladas mineras, 
San Luis Potosí for its queso de tuna, and Querétaro for its enchiladas.4 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCentral Mexico
Central Mexico, the Mexican Altiplano, is important for its vast geographical 
area and population. This region, which includes Puebla, Morelos, Tlaxcala, 
Hidalgo, and Mexico City, has the largest share of agricultural production, 
industry, and mineral wealth. Nuns who cooked for the Spanish viceroy cre -
ated the current staples. Poblano mole and chiles en nogada were invented 
in Puebla, along with desserts and baked goods inspired by Spanish cuisine. 
Hidalgo is the home of mixiotes, a pre-hispanic cuisine favorite. While More -
los was the home for the chichimecas and tecpanecas civilizations. After the 
Spanish conquest, missionaries incorporated crops such as sugarcane, roses 
from Castile, and various tubers. Morelos now produces many of the orna -
mental plants found in gardens all over Mexico. Some classic dishes from 
Morelos include cecina de Yecapixtla, café de olla, agua ardiente liquor, and 
picadillo-stuffed peppers. In Mexico City, one of the most populous cities in the 
world, life is fast; street food is everywhere. Taquerías and barbacoa are part 
of the local culture. Many cultures converge there; however, there are staple 
dishes that everyone cooks at home: chicken soup, fideo seco, and enchila -
das, plus the baked goods, tamales, and drinks typical for special occasions.
The Gulf
Tabasco and Veracruz belong to the Gulf of Mexico. Both states share the 
petroleum industry. Hernán Cortés founded Veracruz under the name “La 
Villa Rica de la Vera Cruz.” This state has the most Caribbean and Creole 
influences, and its cuisine is a mix of Afro-Cuban and Spanish. The region’s 
staple dish is pescado a la veracruzana, a Spanish-Creole fusion using red 
snapper, olives, European spices, tomato sauce, and chiles. Peanuts are 
commonly used in dishes such as encacahuatado de pollo, a peanut sauce 
with chiles. Plantains, yucca, and sweet potatoes are often served as side 
dishes. Café con leche, picaditas, and gorditas infladas with black beans are 
breakfast favorites. Tabasco is famous for its lush rainforests, wetlands, rivers, 
and lakes; this state is home to cacao, which once was used as currency. The 
Olmec culture was prevalent in the Gulf region; in fact, Olmecs developed the 
chocolate confection, but the Mayas perfected it by mixing cocoa beans with 
spices, chiles, and water. Tabasco has an abundance of crayfish and crab, not 
to mention other fish species such as the pejelagarto (tropical gar, known as 
Tabasco’s swamp fish). Families cook this fish in soups, tamales, and grilled.5 The World of Mexican CookingThe South
The South is where the Yucatán Peninsula, Campeche, and Quintana Roo 
are located. The region is recognized for its biological diversity and cultural 
wealth. Yucatán is known mostly for its tropical rainforest, jungles, cenotes, 
beaches, and the Maya culture. The primary industry is tourism; however, 
agriculture and citrus crops are also important. Yucatán’s culinary culture is 
distinct from the rest of Mexico, as it is a mixture of Maya, Cuban, Caribbean, 
Middle Eastern, and European influences. Annatto, produced in this region, is 
the main spice in pibil dishes. Various recado seasonings and habaneros are 
used for making classic dishes, such as chirmole, relleno negro, and pavo en 
escabeche. In Campeche, yellowtail amberjack, smalltooth sawfish, and cazón 
are some of the fish used in dishes such as pan de cazón, a layered grilled 
fish dish. Quintana Roo is a well-known tourist spot with Cancún, but it also 
produces the Maya liqueur, Xtabentún, made with fermented honey and anise. 
The cuisine of the South is heavily inspired by the Maya culture, and salbutes, 
panuchos, and papatzules are part of the regular home menu.
Indigenous Cooking Traditions
Mexican cuisine is a vibrant part of the country’s cultural heritage. 
Authentic Mexican food derives from the combination of ancient Meso -
american and Spanish cuisines. (The Mesoamerican cultures include 
Zapotec, Mixtec, Mexica or Aztec, and Nahua.) 
The Zapotecs and Mixtecs are based in Oaxaca. Many of them still 
speak the ancient languages and not Spanish. We have the Zapotecs 
to thank for introducing the comal for cooking tortillas and meme -
las, but they also contributed a diversity of mole sauces, which is the 
reason Oaxaca is called “the land of the seven moles.” Some moles 
are influenced by Mixtec culture (e.g., mole negro and mole blanco) 
and others by Zapotec (e.g., ceremonial mole zapoteco). Abigail Men -
doza is one of the most famous Zapotec chefs. You might recall her 
from an episode of Parts Unknown , where she made a special meal for 
Anthony Bourdain.
continued >6 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGThe Aztecs were of Nahua ethnicity, but the Nahua people were 
dedicated to agriculture while the Aztecs were warriors. The Nahua 
and Aztec culinary legacy includes several uses of corn and the nix -
tamalization technique, a traditional process for treating, drying, and 
grinding corn to make masa harina for tortillas.
In the South, the Mayas invented the pib, an outdoor oven made with 
dirt and hot stones or clay balls. They would wrap marinated meat in 
banana leaves and cook it underground for several hours. They also 
used natural substances to create seasonings for marinades, such as 
annatto paste and various recados, to use in different meals, such as 
relleno negro and chirmole.
The Mexican Pantry
The ingredients that form the Mexican pantry are diverse. A well-stocked 
Mexican pantry includes staples such as herbs, spices, garlic, dried chiles, 
grains, legumes, classic seasonings, maize (corn), and fresh produce. Although 
you will be able to find many of these ingredients at a standard grocery store, 
some ingredients may require a trip to a specialty market.
Fresh Fruits, Vegetables, and Herbs
Good Mexican home cooking uses local ingredients that are simple and fresh, 
making good use of what’s in season. Many of the ingredients listed here form 
the foundation of Mexican homecooked meals.
Avocados
The most common type of Mexican avocado is called aguacate Hass (Hass 
avocado). This crop comes from Michoacán, a state with volcanic soil and the 
perfect weather to grow avocados. However, Oaxaca, Guanajuato, Jalisco, 7 The World of Mexican CookingGuerrero, Chiapas, and Veracruz also grow the crop. Mexican avocados are  
creamy and suitable for guacamole and other sauces. Firmer avocados serve 
as garnishes for salads and ceviches, and they can be stuffed with salad varia -
tions. The ripeness can be determined by the color and how firm it feels to the 
touch. You can also check by removing the stem; if the inside looks green, it is 
ready to eat. If it looks dark, it is past its prime.
Avocado Leaf
This common ingredient is used for adding flavor and aroma to beans. It can 
also be used to wrap chunks of meat and tamales, and it can be a replace -
ment for corn tortillas when grilled.
Cilantro
Also known as coriander, cilantro is an indispensable ingredient for pico  
de gallo and is used in raw sauces, soups, and as a garnish for tacos and 
carnitas, among other things. Authentic Mexican food requires cilantro’s char -
acteristic flavor.
Epazote
The epazote is an aromatic plant used since pre-Hispanic times. Black beans 
and esquites take on a unique flavor when accompanied by this herb. Fresh 
epazote is essential for chilpachole, green mole, tortilla soup, zucchini flowers, 
and quesillo quesadillas. The flavor is distinctive, and some dishes cannot be 
prepared authentically without it.
Bitter Orange
This rough-skinned citrus fruit is smaller than a classic orange. It is used for 
marinades to help eliminate strong odors and tenderize meats such as game 
and pork. Yucatán, Veracruz, Tabasco, and Chiapas appreciate the bitter 
orange’s juice and use it in several dishes.8 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCorn
Fresh and dried corn have multiple uses in Mexican cooking. Hominy is used 
for pozole, dried corn for soups such as huachales or chacales, masa harina 
for tamales and tortillas, and fresh corn for grilling and boiling.
Garlic and White Onion
Both of these aromatic ingredients form the base for many sauces, soups, 
recados, and stews.
Jícama
Jícama is a globe-shaped turnip or edible root native to Mexico. Its 
golden-brown skin covers a starchy white interior. It is used raw in salads and 
eaten as a snack with chili powder and lime. The flavor is somewhat sweet, 
and it has a crunchy texture. It serves as an acceptable ingredient for vegan 
picadillo tacos, as it is suitable for sautéing.
Limas
Limas should not be confused with limes. This citrus fruit is double or triple 
the size of a lime and has a yellowish color. The flesh is light yellow and not as 
juicy as lime. The flavor is between sweet and bitter—more aromatic and less 
acid than lime. Typically used in Yucatecan cuisine and for desserts and cock -
tails, lima is also a classic for Las Posadas. This citrus fruit is added to piñatas, 
among other fruits and candy.
Limes
Limes are a staple in Mexican cuisine. They are used for curing meats, cooking 
raw seafood, enhancing soups, making beverages. They are also used in fruit 
and vegetable salads, desserts, and as an anti-browning agent for avocado 
and guacamole.
Mint
Mint is not only used for making tea. In Mexican cuisine, mint is added to 
everything from chicken soups and broths to desserts and fruit salads.9 The World of Mexican CookingNopales
It is common to find cactus in various dishes such as nopales salad, grilled 
cactus with cheese and salsa, egg and pork dishes, smoothies, and even 
nutritional supplements. There are many varieties of nopales, all indigenous 
to Mexico, which is why this ingredient is used regularly in many traditional 
recipes. A cookout isn’t complete without tender grilled cactus.
Plantains
Plantains are a staple of Southern Mexican cuisine. They are cut into slices, 
fried, and used as a side dish for rice and eggs. When overripe, they are 
cooked, mashed, and made into tortillas, which can be stuffed with cheese or 
refried beans. In Puebla and Oaxaca, plantains are used for making mole.
Potatoes
Potatoes are typically served with chorizo. They are also an ingredient for 
meatless dishes such as tortitas de papa, quesadillas, and cheese-potato 
chowder.
Squash
Chayote and other squashes such as zucchini are prevalent in meatless main 
dishes, moles, soups and salads, and side dishes, and are often mixed with 
other vegetables, tomatoes, and poblano peppers.
Tomatillos
Tomatillos are known as the Mexican husk tomato, but they are not tomatoes. 
The plant is related to the gooseberry and Chinese lantern plant. The flavor 
is acidic, and it can be green or deep purple in appearance. This ingredient 
is essential for green salsa, salads, and stews. The husk helps reduce the 
gel-like content of nopales.
Tomatoes
Tomatoes are essential in Mexican cuisine. They are used for sauces, pico de 
gallo, and guacamole, among many other dishes. Roma and beefsteak are 
preferred.10 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGYerba Santa (Mexican Pepperleaf)
Yerba santa is a staple in Chiapan and Oaxacan cuisines. The heart-shape 
leaf can be as big as the palm of a hand. Many families grow the plant in their 
gardens and use it in tamales, soups, and mole. The taste is similar to anise, 
with herbal notes.
Chiles
Did you know chiles originated in Mexico? The Aztec and Maya civ -
ilizations cultivated chiles and included them in many dishes. They 
also used them to fumigate homes and cure illnesses. After Cristóbal 
Colón’s arrival, chile cultivars spread across the world.
In Mexican cuisine, chiles are an essential component of many 
dishes. We use them fresh and dried depending on the flavor profile 
we want. For instance, dried chiles provide a smoky note and not all 
are spicy. Dried chiles are common in cooked sauces such as moles 
and adobos and used to make vinegar-based spicy sauces. In contrast, 
fresh chiles are essential for salsas, pico de gallo, and guacamole.
Here are the most popular chiles in Mexican cuisine:
Chile de árbol.  Also known as bird’s beak and rat’s tail, these chiles 
are used fresh and dried. When fresh, these chiles are green, turning 
a deep red when dried. This chile is six times hotter than a jalapeño, 
at between 15,000 and 30,000 Scoville Heat Units. Chile de árbol is a 
typical ingredient in hot salsas for tacos and vinegar-based hot sauces 
such as the sauce for tortas ahogadas.
Chile guajillo.  When fresh, these chiles are called mirasol, and they 
are the most popular chiles in Mexican cuisine. The name “guajillo” 
refers to a big pod. This crop originated in the Bajío region. Guajillos 
are mild dried chiles with a range from 2,500 to 5,000 on the Scoville 
scale. They have a smoky flavor characteristic of enchilada sauces and 
are typically used in dishes such as birria. Guajillos come in two sizes. 
The smaller is called “puya.” This chile is spicier than regular mirasol 
and also comes dried.11 The World of Mexican CookingChile poblano.  This mild but flavorful chile is used for making chiles 
en nogada and other Mexican dishes such as the classic rajas with 
corn. These chiles originated in Puebla. When dried, poblanos are also 
known as “chile ancho” or “chile mulato.” The heat ranges from 1,000 
to 2,000 Scoville Heat Units. Dried chile ancho is perfect for adobos.
Chipotle peppers.  These peppers are dried jalapeños smoked for 
added flavor and are used in sauces and dishes such as tinga and 
albóndigas. Chipotles play an essential role in Puebla’s cuisine. These 
dried peppers can come pickled in a sweet broth and are used as gar -
nishes in cemitas. The heat level ranges from 2,500 to 8,000 Scoville 
Heat Units. Chipotles are also known as “meco” and “morita.”
Jalapeño peppers.  Also known as “cuaresmeños,” these peppers 
originated in Xalapa, Veracruz; the name comes from the region’s 
name. This pepper is one of the most popular worldwide. They are 
mildly hot, averaging around 5,000 Scoville Heat Units. Typically 
used raw for chopped salsas and guacamoles and in cooked sauces 
with either tomatoes or tomatillos, these peppers are also popular for 
 pickling.
Depending on the region, there might be other chile species. For 
instance, in the South, güeros, chimborote, and habaneros are sta -
ples in Yucatecan and Chiapan cuisines. In the North, chiles pasado, 
perones, and chiltepines are part of the daily diet. Serrano peppers 
and chile bola (cascabel) are very popular among taquerías in Mexico 
City. Pasilla (chilaca) is the main ingredient in salsa borracha, and 
mulato and chilhuacle chiles are present in Oaxacan favorites such as 
mole negro.12 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPantry Ingredients
Here are some ingredients commonly kept on hand in Mexican pantries so 
typical meals can be easily prepared.
Beans
There are over 70 endemic bean species cultivated in Mexico. Some favorites 
are pinto (flor de mayo), bayo, azufrado, canario, mayo, yorimuni, and different 
varieties of black beans. Canned beans are acceptable, but many house -
holds enjoy cooking dried beans using a either a traditional or an electric 
 pressure cooker.
Achiote (Annatto) Paste
Achiote, or annatto, is used for coloring and seasoning. The seeds are used 
for flavored oils and pastes. This condiment is typical in Southern Mexican–
inspired cuisine and is known as a main ingredient for cochinita pibil. However, 
Tabasco, Oaxaca, Campeche, and Chiapas also grow and consume this plant.
Chocolate
The Olmecs created chocolate and the Mayas perfected it, making it a 
sacred drink. Nowadays, chocolate is enjoyed mixed with milk and can 
include almonds and cinnamon. Chocolate is also used in moles and other 
savory dishes.
Cinnamon, Cloves, and Anise
Cinnamon is used in desserts, fruit compotes, drinks, syrups, savory sauces, 
and café de olla. Cloves are aromatic flower buds that add warmth and a spicy 
note to moles and syrups. Anise adds aroma and a distinctive flavor to baked 
goods and desserts.
Condensed and Evaporated Milk
Condensed and evaporated milk are essential ingredients for preparing flans, 
rice puddings, atoles, drinks, sweet tamales, cookies, cakes, milk candies, 
dulce de leche, and jamoncillos (Mexican fudge).13 The World of Mexican CookingCorn Husks
Corn husks are the leaves that surround corn cobs. They are used green 
when making tender, sweet corn tamales and dried for classic tamales. Dried 
corn husks are moistened before use for easy wrapping and securing of 
the tamal.
Hominy
Hominy is the name of the white corn used for pozole. It is available canned 
or bagged.
Masa Harina
Masa harina is corn flour used for making tortillas, sopes, huaraches, picaditas, 
tlacoyos, memelas, and gorditas. Masa harina can be white or blue.
Peanuts
Peanuts are used as a thickener for sauces and moles. They are also used for 
beverages, as salad garnishes, and for classic desserts such as mazapanes.
Piloncillo and Panela
Piloncillo is raw sugar formed into a cone; panela is also raw sugar but formed 
into a disk. Both are used for café de olla, candied pumpkin, and syrups. They 
also have savory applications such as preserving pickled chipotles and soak -
ing ancho chiles for stuffing.
Pumpkin Seeds
Pumpkin seeds are used for sauces and moles, but they are the main ingredi -
ent in classic cookies, such as tortitas de Santa Clara from Puebla, and sweets 
called pepitorias and palanquetas.
Rice
Long-grain rice is preferred for cooking Mexican-style rice. Rinsing the rice 
prior to cooking removes excess starch, which prevents the rice from becom -
ing lumpy and gummy in texture. The only exception to this is when making 
arroz con leche and horchata; the rice doesn’t need to be rinsed when making 
rice pudding and this delicious beverage.14 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSesame Seeds
Sesame seeds are an important ingredient in hot sauces such as salsa macha 
and moles. They are also used in fruity salads and as an accent for nutty fla -
vors in baked goods.
Spices
Cumin, marjoram, bay leaves, and freshly ground black pepper are common 
seasonings for pork, fish, and other meats. They are also used for pickling 
and making enchilada sauces. Mexican oregano is stronger than Italian and is 
typically used in pozole.
Other ingredients
Along with the previously listed ingredients, here are some other items usually 
found in Mexican home kitchens.
Tortillas (Corn and Flour)
Corn and flour tortillas are essential in Mexican cooking. You may want to have 
different sizes: small street-taco and classic corn tortillas. For flour tortillas, use 
large for burritos, medium for tacos, and the smaller, thicker version for quesa -
dillas. If not cooking your own, look for tortillas that are similar to homemade. 
Certain brands offer raw flour tortillas ready to cook on a comal. For corn tor -
tillas, one option is to mix flour and corn masa flour. Or use nixtamalized corn 
flour for a softer texture tortilla. Storing tortillas is easy: Use a plastic container 
with a lid and keep them refrigerated.
Lard
Pork lard is very common in Mexican cuisine. It is needed for sautéing and 
quick-frying. Lard is also used for tamales, refried beans, and cookies (pol -
vorones and hojarascas). Lard can be purchased, but you can also reserve 
bacon fat after cooking and store it in the refrigerator.15 The World of Mexican CookingFresh Chorizo
Mexican chorizo differs from Spanish. Depending on the region, chorizo can 
have different colors and textures. The most common is from Sinaloa and 
Sonora. It is made with pork and doesn’t come in a casing but is crumbled and 
typically seasoned with chile colorado, vinegar, and spices. Chorizo is con -
sumed in antojitos, combined with potatoes, served for breakfast with eggs, 
used for topping molletes, added to quesadillas, and used for queso fundido. 
If you can’t find it locally, make your own. It is super easy to prepare and 
freezes well.
Mexican Crema
Mexican crema is sweet and resembles French crème fraîche. You can find 
it in many supermarkets in the dairy aisle alongside queso fresco and other 
dairy products from Latin America.
Queso Cotija
This cheese originated in Michoacán. It is made with raw milk, covered in a 
peppery red sauce, and matured for at least three months. It has a robust, salty 
taste with a refined aroma and is intended for crumbling and topping Mexican 
antojitos, such as flautas, sopes, enchiladas, tostadas, soups, and more.
Queso Fresco
Queso fresco is a young cheese. It is firm but with a soft texture and creamy 
flavor. Queso fresco can be shredded, crumbled, and even fried. It is used in 
stuffed chiles, quesadillas, and sopa de queso.
Queso Oaxaca
Queso Oaxaca is also called quesillo. It is made with raw milk and stretched 
into long strings that are then formed into a ball. Real quesillo is an artisanal 
cheese, but it can be found in the United States. This cheese melts easily and is 
creamy and mild, perfect for quesadillas and other antojitos such as memelas.16 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGQueso Chihuahua
Queso Chihuahua is made by the Mennonite community using pasteurized 
milk. It is light yellow and has a mature but not excessively strong flavor, rather 
like a mild cheddar. This cheese is perfect for casseroles (pastel Azteca), 
cheesy enchiladas, chiles rellenos, queso fundido, and dishes that require a 
higher fat cheese and higher melting point. This cheese is widely available 
and typically comes shredded and bagged.
Useful Equipment
Cooking Mexican dishes at home requires a few gadgets and utensils that will 
make your life easier and set you up for making successful dishes. 
Pressure cooker
A pressure cooker saves time and helps achieve the best results when cook -
ing beef, pork, chicken stock, soups, dried beans, tamales, and birria. An 
alternative to a classic stovetop pressure cooker is the Instant Pot.
Comal
This flat griddle is used for many purposes, not only for cooking tortillas. A 
comal is great for roasting peppers, tomatoes, and garlic for salsas and for 
cooking gorditas, molotes, and sopes. If you do not have a comal, just use a 
nonstick skillet.
Molcajete
The molcajete is a stone mortar used for mashing. Using a molcajete provides 
authenticity to a hot sauce. However, if you do not have one, use a blender or 
food processor.
Clay Pot
Mexican clay pots are not only pretty but cook wonderful frijoles de olla and 
caldos. They also are wonderful for making homemade yogurt and for resting 
bread dough. Clay pots are traditional but can be replaced with a cast-iron 
Dutch oven or pressure cooker.17 The World of Mexican CookingTamalera
A tamalera is a huge pot that has a rack in the bottom for steaming, plus a lid. I 
prefer to use an Instant Pot or a medium steamer for cooking smaller batches 
of tamales. However, if you are cooking tamales for a crowd, a tamalera is 
very handy.
Tortilla Press
Primarily for making corn tortillas, this press has other uses as well, such as 
helping make conchas and quesadillas. The heavy metal press is the perfect 
size for a medium corn tortilla. If you are planning to make your own tortillas, 
this is a recommended investment. Unfortunately, there is not a good substi -
tute for this item.
Ingredient Prep
Mexican cuisine is all about developing flavors. One of the most important 
techniques is roasting ingredients, which, in Spanish, is known as tatemar . 
Tatemar means roasting ingredients almost to the point of getting burnt. For 
example, when making hot sauce, the tomatoes, chiles, garlic, and onion are 
roasted over direct fire until blistered, which develops the unique, smoky 
flavor characteristic of Mexican cuisine.
Roasting Vegetables
The tatemado is done over a direct flame on a grill or on the stove. Using 
tongs, turn the vegetables until they are uniformly roasted all over. A comal is 
recommended for the tatemado of tomatoes, tomatillos, and garlic, although 
you can oven roast them at a high temperature. Poblano peppers should be 
roasted until blistered for easy peeling.
Garlic
Roast garlic cloves on a comal or griddle over medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes 
on each side, or until showing brown spots. If you roast with the skin on (which 
is acceptable), the flavor won’t be as smoky.18 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGOnions
Oven-roast onions at 400ºF for 15 to 20 minutes. Whole onions should be 
brushed with oil and wrapped in aluminum foil; they may also be cut into 
chunks and spread out on a baking sheet. Or use a comal over medium heat, 
turning the onions with tongs.
Poblanos
The best way to blister poblanos is over a direct flame, turning them several 
times until completely roasted. Then, bag and wrap the roasted peppers 
with a cloth to create enough steam to peel the skin. Or deep-fry the pobla -
nos at 275ºF for 5 to 7 minutes, until the skin puffs and peels. You can also 
oven-roast the poblanos in a pan at 400ºF for 7 minutes on each side. 
Remove the roasted peppers from the heat and cover them with foil to create 
steam, which will help the skin peel off easily.
Tomatillos and Tomatoes
These are traditionally roasted on a comal over medium heat, turning them 
occasionally, until they show brown spots. Another option is to halve and 
oven-roast them, then put them on a baking sheet and grill at 400ºF for 7 to 
10 minutes. Set them aside to rest for 10 minutes. Unlike tomatillos, tomatoes 
need to be peeled for a smoother texture in salsas and purees.
Toasting Dried Chiles
Some recipes call for toasting or frying dried chiles. This is done quickly to 
avoid the bitterness that can develop if they are toasted or fried for a long time 
or at a very high temperature. Another technique to develop flavors is toasting 
spices, nuts, and seeds.
Dried Peppers
Toast dried peppers in a skillet or comal over medium heat for no more than 
1 minute, using tongs or a spatula to continuously move them to avoid burning. 
They are ready when the aroma is smoky and they show brown spots.19 The World of Mexican CookingDried Chiles
Toast dried chiles in a skillet over medium heat with 1 tablespoon of cooking 
oil for no more than 1 minute, using tongs or a spatula to continuously move 
them to avoid burning. They are ready when the aroma is smoky and they 
show brown spots.
Herbs, Spices, Nuts, and Seeds
Toast these in a skillet over medium heat for no more than 2 minutes. Some 
herbs, such as oregano or bay leaves, burn fast, so make sure to stir them 
continuously to achieve even toasting.
About the Recipes
In this cookbook, you will find Mexican home-cooking recipes that use easy to 
find ingredients. These recipes, which I grew up with, represent many different 
regions across Mexico.
All the recipes include the name in both Spanish and English. You will see 
the recipe’s origin at the top, as well as labels indicating whether it takes 
30 minutes or less to make or is vegetarian or vegan. You’ll also see if you 
need any special equipment for that particular recipe. Plus, there are plenty 
of tips with ingredient substitutions, advice on avoiding problems, and expert 
 recommendations to ensure home-cooking success.
I hope you enjoy my collection of homestyle recipes and that, by going 
through these pages, you get inspired to try one or several of these wonderful 
Mexican dishes that you’ve never tasted before. Let’s cook!22 TORTILLAS DE MAIZ CASERAS21
Staples
Tortillas de Maíz Caseras Homemade Corn Tortillas  22
Tortillas de Harina AL Estilo Chihuahua
Chihuahua-Style Flour Tortillas  24
Salsa de Pico de Gallo Pico de Gallo Salsa  26
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de Árbol Fresco
Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh Chile de Árbol  27
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo Red Jalapeño Salsa  28
Salsa Picante de Chile de Árbol
Chile de Árbol Hot Sauce  29
Salsa de Chile Habanero y Tomate
Habanero-Tomato Salsa  30
Guacamole de Aguacate Asado Grilled Guacamole  31
Salsa Macha Dried Chile Oil Sauce  32
Cebollitas Moradas en Escabeche Pickled Red Onions  33222 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGTortillas de Maíz Caseras
Homemade Corn Tortillas
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 30 minutes, plus 2 hours to rest  |  Cook time:  
3 minutes each  |  Makes 12 tortillas  |  Special equipment: cast-iron skillet or griddle,  
tortilla press
Tortillas date to pre-Columbian times and are a quintessential companion to any Mexi -
can meal. Tortillas come in different sizes and colors. The classic recipe uses nixtamal -
ized corn flour (not cornmeal), which can be white, yellow, or blue, depending on the 
masa harina. The addition of guajillo sauce results in red tortillas and cilantro nopal 
paste produces a green version. Don’t let the prep time intimidate you! It’s almost all 
hands-off time while the masa harina hydrates. Not covering and resting the dough for 
long enough could result in brittle, dry tortillas.
2 cups masa harina
½ teaspoon sea salt1 cup plus 2/3 cup hot water, plus more if 
needed (see tip)
1. Combine the masa harina and salt in a medium bowl and use your hands to 
mix them together.
2. Add the warm water slowly to start hydrating the masa. Work the dough with 
your hands until it feels like Play-Doh, not watery or runny. Continue mixing for 
10 minutes, until the dough feels soft and holds together smoothly when a small 
amount is pressed.
3. Form the dough into a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap. Let sit on the counter for 2 
hours.
4. While the dough rests, make the plastic squares for the tortilla press. Using 
scissors, cut off the sealing portion of a gallon freezer bag (the plastic is thicker), 
and cut down both sides to open the bag completely into two plastic squares.
5. Unwrap the dough and work it with your hands again. If the dough feels dry, 
moisten your hands with water and continue working it until it feels soft and 
doesn’t stick to your hands.
6. Form 12 balls, each the size of the palm of your hand. (For smaller tortillas, use 
less dough.) Place the balls in a medium bowl and cover them with a damp cloth; 
masa harina dough dries fast and needs to stay moist.23
 Staples7. Preheat a cast-iron skillet or griddle over medium heat (if the heat is too high, it 
could burn the tortillas).
8. Open the tortilla press and lay out one of the plastic squares. Place one dough 
ball on top of the plastic square and cover it with the second plastic square. 
Clamp down the tortilla press and press gently.
9. Remove the tortilla from the press and carefully peel off the plastic. Cook 
the tortilla in the skillet for 30 seconds, until the edges are semi-cooked. Flip 
immediately and cook for 1½ minutes. When little bubbles form on top of the 
tortilla, flip it again. Press the center; if the tortilla puffs up, it is done cooking. 
Wrap the cooked tortilla in a cloth and transfer it to a tortilla warmer. Repeat with 
the remaining dough.
TIP
The amount of water required depends on the coarseness of the masa harina. Add 
water incrementally to avoid adding too much. The water should be hot but not to the 
point that it burns. To avoid hard, dry tortillas, the masa harina needs to rest for at least 
2 hours. The best tortillas are those that puff while cooking. If your tortillas do not puff 
at first, try again! Practice makes perfect, so don’t get discouraged. You’ll soon be -
come an expert.
Masa harina stores well wrapped in plastic and refrigerated in a lidded container, 
so it can be mixed in advance. Moisten your hands with water and rework the masa 
until it is soft but not sticky before making the tortillas. Cooked cold tortillas can be 
stored in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for up to 2 days. To reheat day-old tortillas, 
wet them with water and heat them on the griddle.
VARIATION
Try making blue corn tortillas. The process is the same as described, except you use 
blue masa harina and 2 cups of water as blue masa harina tends to be coarser.24 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGTortillas de Harina al 
Estilo Chihuahua
Chihuahua-Style Flour Tortillas
Origin: Chihuahua  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 20 minutes, plus 1 hour to rest  |  Cook time:  
5 minutes each  |  Makes 12 tortillas  |  Special equipment: cast-iron skillet
This recipe is from my Aunt Julieta’s recipe box. These flour tortillas are thicker and 
smaller than those made in other Northern Mexican states. Flour tortillas are a kitchen 
staple in Chihuahua. Every evening, tortillas are freshly made to pair with homestyle 
classics such as caldillo de res and chile con queso. This same recipe works for sopaip -
illas and empanadas. Using the correct measurements, resting the dough, and keeping 
it moist are key to successful flour tortillas.
2½ cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder½ cup vegetable shortening, at room 
temperature, plus a dab for kneading
1 cup hot water (see tip)
1. Combine the flour, salt, and baking powder in a medium bowl and mix well. 
Using your hands or a stand mixer, incorporate the shortening until the texture 
is like sand.
2. Add the water, a little bit at a time, and knead the dough for 5 to 8 minutes, until 
moist and soft but not sticky.
3. Form the dough into a ball. Take a dab of shortening and massage the dough 
with it. Place the dough ball in a lidded container and cover it with plastic wrap. 
Let it rest for 1 hour on the counter.
4. Divide the dough into 12 balls. Cover the balls with a cloth to prevent them 
drying out.
5. Sprinkle some flour on a work surface and, using a floured rolling pin, roll 
one dough ball into a thick 8-inch circle. Flip and turn the dough to achieve 
the rounded form. Do not get discouraged if the tortilla is not perfectly round. 
Sprinkle the tortilla with flour and set aside. Repeat with the remaining dough.25
 Staples6. Preheat a cast-iron skillet over medium heat. Cook the tortilla for  
30 seconds. When bubbles form, flip the tortilla and press it with a spatula, grill 
press, steak weight, or double-folded thick towel. You will see the tortilla start to 
puff, which is normal. When golden-brown spots are visible on both sides, the 
tortilla is ready. Try not to overcook them.
TIP
It is essential to rest the dough to get that characteristic flaky, buttery texture. The 
water should be hot but not to the point that it burns. The shortening and plastic wrap 
help keep the dough moist. Otherwise, it will form a crust and the tortilla won’t cook as 
expected. A thick cast-iron skillet will produce better results. Making flour tortillas re -
quires time and practice. The more you make them, the more expert you will become.
Foods Associated with Convents
After the Spanish conquest, the viceroy in Puebla represented the King 
of Spain in the territory. This government had members of the King’s 
court, as well as Spanish missionaries and nuns. The nuns played a 
key role in celebrations and catering government events. The most 
famous nuns were from Convento de Santa Rosa (birthplace of mole 
poblano). Augustinian Recollect nuns from the Santa Monica convent 
invented chiles en nogada. The sisters from the Santa Clara convent 
were experts in sweets and baking. They invented tortitas de Santa 
Clara (homemade cookies made with pepitas) and rompope (a Mexi -
can version of eggnog). The nuns cleverly used local ingredients with 
Spanish condiments, creating intricate flavors and a new cuisine. The 
best examples are tinga poblana and chiles en nogada. Other culinary 
treasures created by nuns include enchiladas and chilaquiles. The first 
recipe book from the Virreinal era is attributed to Sor Juana Inés de la 
Cruz, a nun from the order of Barefoot Carmelites of Mexico and the 
first poet in Hispanic America.26 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSalsa de Pico de Gallo
Pico de Gallo Salsa
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Makes 2 cups
Pico de gallo salsa is also called salsa Mexicana or salsa fresca. The name, which means 
“rooster’s beak,” perhaps came about because salsa was initially eaten by pinching it 
between the thumb and finger, making the shape of a beak. True or not, this salsa is a 
staple in home cooking. At my mom’s table, a good salsa Mexicana and guacamole were 
regular garnishes. We use this for garnishing soups and broths; in rice, tacos, tostadas, 
and quesadillas; on top of molletes; to cook huevos a la Mexicana; and much more.
½ small white onion, diced
1 large jalapeño pepper, seeded, 
deveined, and finely chopped
2 large Roma tomatoes, diced½ teaspoon salt
Juice of ½ lime
¼ cup cilantro leaves, chopped
In a medium mixing bowl, combine the onion, jalapeño, and tomatoes. Mix well. 
Season with the salt and lime juice. Stir and top with the cilantro before serving 
in a classic salsa bowl.
TIP
Using the freshest ingredients is vital for the best pico de gallo. Choose ripe tomatoes 
with firm flesh and opt for Roma tomatoes, if possible. There should be more tomato 
than onion. Cilantro is best when roughly chopped or torn with your hands. Store pico 
de gallo in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. If storing, omit the 
cilantro until just before serving.
VARIATION
For a spicier pico de gallo, substitute the jalapeño with 1 or 2 serrano peppers. The 
Roma tomatoes could also be replaced with 1 beefsteak tomato or  
2 tomatoes on the vine.
26 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKING27
 StaplesSalsa Verde Picante con 
Chile de Árbol Fresco
Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh Chile de Árbol
Origin: Estado de Mexico, Tlaxcala, Mexico City, Oaxaca, Puebla, Hidalgo, Michoacán, and 
Morelos  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time: 2 minutes  
Makes 2 cups  |  Special equipment: comal or griddle, molcajete or blender
Salsa verde dates back to the Aztec Empire. The base of the sauce is tomatillos, also 
called Mexican husk tomato or miltomate. Salsa verde can be raw or cooked. Typically, 
the cooked sauce is for stews and enchiladas and the raw is appropriate for garnishing 
almost everything. Each state prepares salsa verde with its own unique touch. For 
example, in Tlaxcala and Puebla, salsa could include pápaloquelite, a pungent Mexican 
herb. This recipe is inspired by the Oaxacan version, which has a spicy and herbaceous 
flavor.
8 medium tomatillos, husked and 
cleaned
3 fresh chile de árbol peppers, 
stemmed
1 garlic clove½ teaspoon coarse salt
1 tablespoon water (optional)
⅓ red onion, finely chopped
½ cup cilantro leaves, torn
1. Place a comal or griddle on the stovetop over medium heat. When it is hot, 
blister the tomatillos for less than 1 minute. The tomatillos must remain raw but 
show some blistering. Do the same with the chiles and garlic. The blistering 
or tatemado of the ingredients helps develop the smoky flavor characteristic 
of Mexican sauces. For creating a more authentic salsa verde, do not skip this 
step.
2. If using a molcajete, mash the garlic with the salt, then add the peppers and 
mash again. Finally, add the tomatillos, one at a time, and continue mashing until 
a chunky salsa forms. If using a blender, combine the peppers, garlic, salt, and 
water. Pulse to achieve a chunky salsa texture. Try not to use  
more water.
3. Stir in the onion. Taste and adjust with more salt as needed. Top with the cilantro 
immediately before serving.28 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSalsa de Jalapeño Rojo
Red Jalapeño Salsa
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes  
Makes 2 cups  |  Special equipment: comal or griddle, blender
Enrique Olvera—recipient of 6 Michelin Stars and the most awarded Mexican chef—
once said that embracing his roots, reinventing his mom’s recipes, and using Mexican 
indigenous techniques such as “burning” the ingredients changed his life. So, I say, do 
not be afraid of going back to your roots; it could be a life-changer.
2 large or 3 small Roma tomatoes
3 red jalapeño peppers2 garlic cloves
½ teaspoon coarse salt
1. Place a comal or griddle on the stovetop over high heat. When it is hot, roast 
the tomatoes and jalapeños for 10 to 15 minutes, until fully blistered and 
showing brown marks. 
2. Roast the garlic for 2 to 3 minutes, until golden brown.
3. For a smoother salsa, remove the tomato skins before blending.
4. Combine the tomatoes, jalapeños, and garlic in a blender and blend to a smooth 
consistency. Season with the salt.
TIP
Choose the spiciness of your salsa by adding more or fewer jalapeño peppers. Do not 
worry if the garlic turns brown; the flavor is better when toasted. As with other spicy 
sauces, the tatemado, or roasting of the vegetables, is essential for creating the smoky 
notes that make a Mexican salsa authentic. If you cannot find red jalapeño peppers, 
buy them green and let them mature in a sunny window or use green jalapeños for a 
milder taste.29 StaplesSalsa Picante de Chile de 
Árbol
Chile de Árbol Hot Sauce
Origin: Jalisco  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 20 minutes  |   
Makes 2 cups  |  Special equipment: blender
Also called salsa tapatía, this hot sauce is the quintessential ingredient in the popular 
tortas ahogadas. However, it is widely used to drizzle on chicharróns, potato chips, 
soups, crudites, and almost everything.
1 cup dried chile de árbol, stemmed
2 cups boiling water
2 garlic cloves
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon dried marjoram
1 tablespoon salt
2 tablespoons toasted sesame seeds
1. Soak the chiles in the water for 10 to 15 minutes. Reserve 1 cup of the chile 
soaking water for blending.
2. Pour the reserved soaking water into a blender and add the chiles, garlic, 
vinegar, cumin, marjoram, salt, and sesame seeds.
3. Blend on high and pour into a sauce bottle for later use.
TIP
Buy small sauce bottles and fill them with this sauce. They make wonderful gifts.30 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSalsa de Chile  
Habanero y Tomate
Habanero-Tomato Salsa
Origin: Yucatán  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 5 minutes,  
plus 15 minutes to rest  |  Makes 2 cups
Habanero, onion, and tomatoes come together in a fresh chopped salsa classic that is 
perfect for garnishing Yucatecan sopa de lima. But this salsa also pairs wonderfully with 
other antojitos such as carnitas tacos and grilled chicken or beef. In Mexican cuisine, 
fresh garnishes and salsas play a significant role in adding texture and layering flavors, 
elevating dishes to another level of yumminess.
2 Roma tomatoes, diced
⅓ red onion, diced
1 habanero, chopped⅓ cup fresh cilantro leaves
¼ cup bitter orange juice
1 teaspoon sea salt
Combine the tomatoes, onion, habanero, and cilantro in a medium bowl. Stir 
and season with the bitter orange juice and salt. Stir again and allow the salsa 
to marinate for 15 minutes before serving. Keep the salsa refrigerated in an 
airtight container until ready to use.
VARIATION
Replace the red onion with white onion and the bitter orange with 1/4 cup of orange 
juice mixed with 1 tablespoon of apple cider vinegar.31 StaplesGuacamole de  
Aguacate Asado
Grilled Guacamole
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 10 minutes  
Makes 1½ cups  |  Special equipment: charcoal grill or skillet, molcajete or blender
Avocado is found throughout Mexican cuisine. It’s used in many ways, and grilling it 
gives it a nice smoky flavor that complements the guacamole mix. Guacamole typically 
has tomato, onion, jalapeño, lime juice, and cilantro, but there are a few variations and 
this is one of them. This guacamole is the perfect companion to carnitas, chicharróns, 
and corn chips, and it is ideal for making guacamole tacos.
1 avocado
¼ teaspoon corn oil (or vegetable or 
grapeseed oil)
1 garlic clove
1 serrano pepper (optional)½ teaspoon coarse salt
1 teaspoon water (optional)
Juice of 1 lime
⅓ cup roughly chopped cilantro
1. Light a charcoal grill or heat a skillet over high heat.
2. Wash the avocado with soap and water. Dry it with a paper towel and cut it in 
half. Remove the pit and brush the cut surfaces with the oil.
3. Lower the heat to medium and grill the avocado, cut-side down, for 5 to  
7 minutes, or until grill marks appear. Set it aside.
4. In the same skillet, roast the garlic and serrano pepper (if using) in the skillet. 
When golden brown or blistered, remove them from heat and mash in a 
molcajete. Add the salt and continue mashing. If you do not have a molcajete, 
blend the ingredients in a blender with the water.
5. Scoop out the grilled avocado and mash it with the garlic-serrano mixture. When 
all is incorporated, add the lime juice and mix again.
6. Top the guacamole with the cilantro and enjoy with corn chips, tacos, carnitas, 
and much more.
TIP
Lime juice prevents the avocado from browning, so do not leave it out. A charcoal grill 
provides a more authentic flavor, but a skillet on the stovetop works fine. Use a high 
smoke point oil such as corn, vegetable, or grapeseed.32 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSalsa Macha
Dried Chile Oil Sauce
Origin: Michoacán, Oaxaca, and Veracruz  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 10 minutes  |  Cook time:  
10 minutes, plus 20 minutes to steep  |  Makes 1 cup  |  Special equipment: food processor
There are a few versions and different ways of making this dried chile oil sauce. In Oriz -
aba, chipotle peppers are used; in Michoacán, they use chiles de árbol; and in Oaxaca, 
anchos, guajillos, and chipotles are used. The oil turns red and is commonly used for 
cooking or garnishing caldos. It is important to use an oil with a high smoke point to 
avoid the oil burning and altering the taste. My method of frying the dried peppers first 
allows for a successful result.
1 cup stemmed and seeded dried chile 
de árbol (keep the seeds for spicier 
version)
½ cup corn, vegetable, or  
grapeseed oil2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
3 tablespoons sesame seeds
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt
1. In a food processor, process the chile de árbol into flakes. Some like the flakes 
bigger and others smaller. Crush depending on your taste.
2. Heat the oil in a small saucepan over high heat. When the oil is bubbling, 
carefully remove the pan from the heat and set on a firm surface. The oil will be 
scalding, so please exercise caution.
3. Carefully add the pepper flakes, garlic, and sesame seeds. 
4. Return the saucepan to the stove over low heat and simmer for 5 to  
7 minutes. Then, remove the saucepan from the heat, add the salt, and stir. Let 
the ingredients steep for about 20 minutes, until the oil is at room temperature.
5. The oil will turn red, and the ingredients will be toasty. Pour the salsa macha into 
a mason jar with a lid and store it in the pantry.
TIP
If you prefer to make salsa macha the traditional way by frying the dried chiles, please 
do. The only recommendation is to avoid frying them too long, as dried peppers burn 
fast and become bitter.33 StaplesCebollitas Moradas en 
Escabeche
Pickled Red Onions
Origin: Yucatán  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to marinate  
Makes 2 cups
In Mexican cuisine, we like to garnish our dishes with pickled onions. In fact, it’s un -
thinkable to eat classic tortas ahogadas or pibil dishes without including pickled onions 
on the side. Pickled onions add texture and balance the flavors in many dishes, thanks 
to the vinegar and citrus notes. These onions can also be mixed with chopped habanero 
or serrano peppers.
1 cup warm water
⅓ cup white vinegar
Juice of 1 lime
1 teaspoon coarse salt½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
½ teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 red onion, thinly sliced
In a large bowl, combine the water, vinegar, lime juice, and salt. Stir for 
5 minutes to dissolve the salt, then stir in the black pepper, oregano, and 
onion. Stir until combined, then set it aside to marinate for 30 minutes, or until 
the mixture turns pink. Serve or store in a mason jar in the refrigerator.34
38 CHILAQUILES VERDES353
Breakfast
Huevos Rancheros Ranchero Eggs  36
Huevos Divorciados Divorced Eggs  37
Chilaquiles Verdes Green Chilaquiles  38
Machaca con Huevo Beef Machaca with Eggs  40
Huevos con Chorizo a la Mexicana
Mexican C horizo  with Eggs  41
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales Cactus and Egg Tacos  42
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba
Toast with Mayocoba Refried Beans and Ch eese  43
Huevos Ahogados Drowned Eggs  4436 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGHuevos Rancheros
Ranchero Eggs
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  
Cook time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 2
Huevos rancheros are two sunny-side-up eggs served over fried tortillas and covered 
with a tomatoey hot sauce. The dish is paired with refried beans, freshly made bolillo 
toast with butter, a cup of coffee, and orange juice. This breakfast is very popular in 
Mexico and a traditional way to start the day on the right foot. In Spanish, we say, “bar -
riga llena corazón contento,” which means “full belly and a happy heart.”
½ cup Red Jalapeño Salsa (page 28)
1 cup Mayocoba Refried Beans  
(page 111)
4 tablespoons cooking oil
4 corn tortillas, divided4 farm-fresh eggs, at room 
temperature, divided
Nonstick cooking spray
1 teaspoon water
2 halved, toasted, and buttered bolillos
1. In a small saucepan over medium heat, warm the salsa.
2. In the microwave or another small saucepan, heat the refried beans.
3. Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. Quickly fry 2 tortillas, taking care 
not to let them get crispy, and set them on a paper towel–lined plate to absorb 
any extra fat. Then, transfer the tortillas to a serving plate and set it aside.
4. Crack 2 eggs into a small bowl, trying to keep the yolks intact.
5. Wipe out the skillet and spray it with cooking spray, then place it over low heat. 
Pour the eggs carefully into the skillet. Add the water, cover with a lid, and cook 
for 2 minutes, or until the whites are set and the yolks look a bit runny. The 
longer you leave the lid on, the more the yolk will cook. If you prefer over-easy 
or cooked yolks, cook for 3 minutes or more.
6. Slide the eggs on top of the tortillas. Repeat with the remaining eggs and 
tortillas.
7. Cover the eggs with the salsa and serve with the refried beans and buttery 
toasted bolillos.
TIP
Using room temperature eggs keeps them from overcooking. Make sure to take the 
eggs out of the refrigerator 20 minutes before cooking them. Using fresh eggs also 
creates a nicer looking sunny-side up with a tighter white.37 BreakfastHuevos Divorciados
Divorced Eggs
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  
Cook time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 2
Divorced eggs are similar to ranchero eggs, except they lack the fried tortilla and the 
eggs are covered with different sauces and separated by refried beans or chilaquiles. 
This fun dish is typically served on weekends in many Mexico City households.
½ cup Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh 
Chile de Árbol (page 27)
½ cup Red Jalapeño Salsa (page 28)
1 cup Mayocoba Refried Beans  
(page 111)4 fresh eggs, at room temperature, 
divided
Nonstick cooking spray
1. Heat the tomatillo salsa and the red salsa in separate saucepans over medium 
heat or in separate bowls in the microwave.
2. Reheat the refried beans in a skillet over medium heat or in the microwave. 
3. Crack 2 eggs into a ramekin.
4. Spray a separate skillet twice with cooking spray and set it over medium heat. 
Warm the skillet, but make sure it is not scorching hot.
5. Pour the eggs carefully into the skillet. Cover with a lid and cook for  
2 minutes, or until the whites are set and the yolks look a bit runny. The longer 
you leave the lid on, the more the yolk will cook. If you prefer over-easy or 
cooked yolks, cook for 3 minutes or more.
6. Repeat with the remaining eggs.
7. To serve, slide the eggs onto a plate. Cover one egg with warm red salsa and 
the other with warm tomatillo salsa. Between them, add the beans.
TIP
Prepare the sauces and the beans the day before to save time, especially if you are 
cooking for four or more people. When cooking the eggs, you can use 1 teaspoon of 
water instead of the oil spray.38 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGChilaquiles Verdes
Green Chilaquiles
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: comal, blender
There is no clear history on the origins of chilaquiles, but the name comes from the 
Náhuatl chilaquili —chil (chile) and aquili  (for submerging in chili sauce). This dish is a 
typical breakfast item in many Mexican households. It is economical and can be served 
red, green, or with mole sauce. Shredded chicken is a common addition, as is serving 
them alongside eggs and refried beans. For an authentic presentation, top them with 
onion, Mexican crema, and ranchero cheese.
For the green tomatillo salsa
10 fresh tomatillos, husked and 
washed, or 1 (16-ounce) can cooked 
tomatillos, drained
2 or 3 serrano peppers, or 2 jalapeños 
for less heat
2 garlic cloves
⅓ cup cilantro leaves
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt (optional)For the chilaquiles
1 cup high smoke point oil, such as 
corn, vegetable, or grapeseed oil
8 corn tortillas, cut into triangles
½ cup shredded chicken
½ cup crumbled Ranchero queso fresco 
or cotija cheese
¼ onion, cut into rounds
½ cup Mexican crema
To make the green tomatillo salsa
1. Place the tomatillos in a large saucepan, add water to cover, and set it over 
medium heat. Bring to a simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the tomatillos 
turn yellow-green. To avoid bitterness, do not use high heat or overcook. Turn 
off the heat and leave the tomatillos in the warm water for about 10 minutes. 
Remove them from the water and set them aside to cool, reserving ½ cup 
of the cooking water. Tomatillos need to be cold before blending to avoid 
developing bitterness.
2. In a comal, roast the serrano peppers with the garlic.
3. Transfer the tomatillos to a blender with the peppers, garlic, and cilantro. Add the 
reserved cooking water and blend until smooth. It should not be watery.39 Breakfast4. In a saucepan over medium heat, pour in the tomatillo salsa and chicken 
bouillon and simmer for 15 minutes. Taste and add salt (if using) or more water if 
necessary. Turn off the heat and keep the sauce covered with a lid until ready to 
use.
To make the chilaquiles
5. Heat the oil in a deep saucepan or cast-iron skillet over high heat. When 
the oil starts bubbling, add the tortilla triangles, one handful at a time. Do 
not overcrowd the pan and take care to avoid burns.
6. When the chips are golden brown, transfer them to a paper towel–lined plate to 
remove excess fat. Repeat until all tortilla chips are fried, then set aside.
7. Drown a handful of chips in the warm salsa for 1 or 2 seconds only (they need to 
stay crispy).
8. Place the drowned chips onto four plates and add the chicken. Drizzle each with 
additional sauce.
9. Top each plate with queso fresco, two onion slices, and Mexican crema.
TIP
Use yellow corn tortillas. Preferably, after cutting them, leave them on a tray to dry 
overnight for crispier chips that absorb less oil. Commercial corn chips absorb too 
much sauce and do not work well. These chilaquiles taste great with Mayocoba Re -
fried Beans (page 111) and sunny-side-up eggs.40 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGMachaca con Huevo
Beef Machaca with Eggs
Origin: Sonora and Nuevo León  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Machaca is dried skirt steak smashed in a pestle. If you can’t find it at the supermarket, 
you can use beef jerky, grilled and ground with garlic in a molcajete or food processor. 
Beef machaca is a staple from Sonora and Nuevo Leon. Usually, the meat is seasoned 
with salt and dried in the sun for several days. The taste is a bit salty but delicious.
1 tablespoon corn oil
1½ cups machaca
1 cup finely chopped white onion
1 large garlic clove, finely chopped
1 jalapeño pepper or 2 serrano 
peppers, finely chopped
2 cups diced beefsteak tomatoesSalt (optional)
Freshly ground black pepper
8 eggs
8 Chihuahua-Style Flour Tortillas  
(page 24)
Dried Chile Oil Sauce (page 32)
1. In a large skillet over medium heat, warm the oil. Add the machaca and sauté 
for 5 to 7 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the onion and garlic and sauté for 
another 5 minutes, stirring. Add the jalapeño and cook for 2 minutes. Stir in the 
tomatoes and simmer for another 5 minutes to allow the tomatoes to release 
the juices.
2. Taste and season with salt (if using) and black pepper.
3. Crack the eggs into a large bowl and mix with a whisk. Add the eggs to the 
machaca and stir to combine. Lower the heat and cook the eggs for 5 minutes 
(or less, if you prefer a softer egg consistency).
4. Serve with a side of tortillas and dried chile oil sauce.
TIP
Consider cooking your homemade machaca a day in advance. Cook 1 pound of skirt 
steak in the pressure cooker with 4 cups of water, 1 garlic clove, 1/2 onion, 1 teaspoon 
of marjoram, 1 tablespoon of beef bouillon, and 1 bay leaf. Shred and fry until crispy. 
If using commercial beef machaca, find one that is Mexican style. You can buy it on 
Amazon.41 BreakfastHuevos con Chorizo  
a la Mexicana
Mexican Chorizo with Eggs
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Mexican chorizo differs from the classic Spanish style in that it is made with uncooked 
pork, whereas the Spanish version is usually aged and smoked. Mexican chorizo looks 
like small crumbles of seasoned pork meat when fully cooked.
1 cup ground Homemade Pork Chorizo 
(page 104)
8 eggs
Pinch freshly ground black pepperPico de Gallo Salsa (page 26), for 
serving
4 Chihuahua-Style Flour Tortillas  
(page 24), for serving
1. In a skillet over medium heat, cook the chorizo for 20 minutes, or until all the 
fat has rendered. Remove the excess fat and make sure the chorizo is crispy, 
crumbly, and reddish brown.
2. Crack the eggs into a large bowl and mix them with a whisk. Sprinkle with the 
pepper and mix again. Add the eggs to the chorizo and cook for 7 minutes.
3. Serve with a side of pico de gallo and tortillas.
TIP
Mexican chorizo looks like a reddish paste with spices. It can come packaged in a 
square container or formed into small sausage-like links. If you prefer a vegetarian op -
tion, choose Mexican soy chorizo, which tastes very similar. Vegetarian chorizo takes 
about 45 minutes to brown.42 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGTacos de Huevo  
con Nopales
Cactus and Egg Tacos
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: comal or griddle
Nopal cactus is a common ingredient in many Mexican dishes. Nopales are part of the 
indigenous culinary legacy and a humble ingredient that now is considered a super -
food. My mom served this to us as it is economical and filling. In the United States, it 
can be challenging to find fresh nopales, but the canned variety tastes similar and helps 
tame the craving for Mom’s tasty breakfast.
6 eggs, at room temperature
1 tablespoon cooking oil
2 cups fresh or canned cactus nopales, 
diced and rinsed
½ white onion, finely chopped
1 serrano pepper, finely chopped 
(optional)Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Homemade Corn Tortillas (page 22), for 
serving
Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh Chile 
de Árbol (page 27), for serving
1. Crack the eggs into a medium bowl. Whisk and set aside.
2. Heat the oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the nopales and sauté for  
15 minutes, or until they turn dark green with some browning marks.
3. Stir in the onion and serrano pepper (if using) and cook for 5 minutes. Season 
with salt and black pepper.
4. Pour the eggs on top and stir them in. Cook the eggs for no longer than  
7 minutes, then remove the skillet from the heat and set aside.
5. Warm the tortillas in a comal or griddle, then stuff each tortilla with the egg 
mixture. Garnish with salsa and serve.
TIP
If using canned nopales, choose those preserved in salted water, not the pickled cac -
tus. There is no need to dice canned nopales as they come in strips. Trying to chop 
cooked cactus destroys it as it is tender. Canned nopales cook faster, so they cook in 
half the time.43 BreakfastMolletes con Frijoles 
Mayocoba
Toast with Mayocoba Refried Beans and Cheese
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 2
No one is certain how the molletes with beans became a breakfast favorite in Mexico 
City. The word “mollete” is Spanish and refers to a type of bread. However, molletes 
come in different presentations throughout Latin America, and some are even sweet. 
This version is the one I grew up with at home.
2 bolillo breads or 2 small baguettes, 
halved
1 teaspoon butter or margarine, at 
room temperature½ cup Mayocoba Refried Beans  
(page 111)
4 slices Chihuahua cheese or white 
Monterey Jack cheese
1 cup Pico de Gallo Salsa (page 26)
1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF.
2. Remove some of the crust from the bread and spread each half with some 
butter.
3. Spread an equal amount of beans on each piece of bread and top it with the 
cheese.
4. Place the molletes on a baking sheet and bake for 20 minutes or more, 
depending on how toasty you like your bread.
5. Serve immediately with the salsa.
TIP
Use black or pinto beans if you do not have Mayocoba. Canned refried beans 
work, too.44 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGHuevos Ahogados
Drowned Eggs
Origin: Puebla  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: comal or griddle, blender
Drowned eggs are similar to eggs in purgatory or the Middle Eastern shakshuka, but 
in Mexico, we use a brothy sauce made with either guajillo chiles or serrano peppers 
and roasted tomatoes. The secret to success with this recipe is to break each egg into a 
ramekin  before adding it to the sauce so the yolk doesn’t break. Huevos ahogados is a 
typical brunch meal, and many families serve it during Lent for lunch.
5 guajillo chiles, stemmed, seeded, 
and rinsed
1 cup hot water
2 garlic cloves
½ white onion
8 Roma tomatoes
1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 teaspoon ground cumin1 teaspoon ground Mexican oregano
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
½ cup vegetable stock
Salt (optional)
8 eggs
½ cup diced queso fresco (firm texture, 
not for crumbling)
¼ cup cilantro leaves, for garnish
1. In a large bowl, soak the guajillo chiles in the hot water for 10 to 15 minutes, 
until soft. Reserve 1 cup of the chile soaking water.
2. Meanwhile, heat the comal or griddle over medium heat. Add the garlic and 
roast for 2 to 3 minutes. Add the onion and roast for 5 minutes. Add the 
tomatoes and roast for 10 to 15 minutes, until all the vegetables are blistered and 
browned. Transfer them to a plate, let them cool, and peel the tomatoes.
3. In a blender, combine the soaked peppers with the roasted vegetables. Add the 
reserved soaking water and blend until velvety.
4. In a deep sauté pan over medium heat, warm the oil and slowly pour the sauce 
in to avoid splattering. Season with the cumin, oregano, and bouillon. Mix well, 
add the vegetable stock, and let simmer for 15 minutes. Taste and add salt (if 
using).45 Breakfast5. When the sauce is bubbling, crack each egg, one at a time, into a ramekin and 
carefully add it to the sauce, along with the queso fresco. Once all the eggs have 
been added, cover the pan and poach for 8 minutes; if you prefer firmer yolks, 
cook for 2 minutes more.
6. Serve the eggs in a large bowl with some sauce and garnished with cilantro.
TIP
A firm queso fresco won’t melt while cooking in the sauce. It is essential to use a deep 
sauté pan with a lid. Use a cast-iron, aluminum, or Mexican clay pot.
Pair this dish with beans, warm corn tortillas, or toasted bolillos.
Breakfast in Mexico
In Mexican households, breakfast is abundant. Dishes such as huevos 
rancheros or chilaquiles are staples, but pastries, natural juices, coffee, 
and nata never fail. In the North, machaca con huevo is preferred, 
whereas in the South, eggs are served with habanero sauces and 
plantains. Simple options such as molletes (a bolillo with refried beans 
and cheese), tortas de huevo, or tamales are popular with students and 
working people. Weekend breakfast means barbacoa, menudo, and 
caldos to cure the previous night’s excesses. Breakfast is the perfect 
occasion to sit down with the family and chat. In Mexico, missing break -
fast is omitting a vital part of the day, and Mexicans who have to skip 
breakfast will often find a way to sneak out of work to get some. Taqui -
tos de huevo with cactus, quesadillas, enchiladas, and gorditas are 
popular options, as are fruit licuados, champurrado, and warm oatmeal. 
Mexico has the most delicious breakfast options, and there is no better 
breakfast than the one cooked with love in Mom’s kitchen.46
54 SOPES DE POLLO47SNACKS AND Appetizers
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso  
Corn Cakes Stuffed with Cheese and Beans  48
Ceviche de Camarón Shrimp Ceviche  50
Tortas Ahogadas Drowned Sandwiches  51
Molotes de Queso Cheese Molotes  52
Sopes de Pollo Chicken Masa Harina Cakes  54
Gorditas de Atotonilco con Chicharrón
Atotonilco Corn Gorditas with Pork Cracklings  56
Flautas de Carne Deshebrada Crispy Beef Tacos  57
Memelas Oaxaqueñas Oaxacan Memelas  58448 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGTlacoyos de Frijol  
con Queso
Corn Cakes Stuffed with Cheese and Beans
Origin: Hidalgo  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 40 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: comal or cast-iron skillet
The name for these small, oval, bean-filled corn cakes comes from the Nahuatl  tlatlaolli , 
which means “ground maize.” In Puebla and Tlaxcala, they call this “antojito tlatloyo.” 
Tlacoyos are street food, but, at home, they’re a favorite snack for la merienda. Tla -
coyos are a humble dish with simple preparation. There is another version known as a 
“huarache” (sandal). It has the same ingredients but is as big as a foot.
3 cups masa harina (white or blue)
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups lukewarm water
1 cup refried beans (canned or 
homemade)
1 teaspoon cooking oil or lard1 cup Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with 
Fresh Chile de Árbol (page 27) or Red 
Jalapeño Salsa (page 28)
½ cup Mexican crema
1 cup crumbled queso fresco or cotija 
cheese
1 avocado, pitted and sliced
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the masa harina and salt. Slowly mix in the 
water. Work the masa for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it comes away from the 
bowl, doesn’t stick to your fingers, and has a soft, Play-Doh–like texture. Cover 
it with a damp cloth and set aside.
2. Fill a small bowl with water for wetting your fingers to avoid sticking. Grab a 
scoop of masa and form a ball the size of your palm or smaller. Repeat to make 8 
balls. Keep the balls covered with a damp cloth.49 SNACKS AND Appetizers3. Dampen your fingers again. Flatten one ball into a small, thick tortilla. Stuff it 
with 1 teaspoon of the beans. Close the masa around the beans to form an oval 
shape and pinch the ends to seal. Repeat with the remaining balls. Keep them 
covered with a damp cloth.
4. Heat a comal or cast-iron skillet over medium heat. Drop in a few drops of 
water to check if the comal is hot. When the water sizzles, add the oil. Cook the 
tlacoyos for 5 to 7 minutes on each side, until toasty brown spots appear.
5. Serve immediately, garnished with the tomatillo salsa, Mexican crema, crumbled 
queso fresco, and avocado slices.
TIP
Masa harina requires the right amount of water for the right texture: soft but not sticky. 
You might need more or less than this recipe states, depending on the masa harina 
brand and its coarseness. Forming tlacoyos takes some practice. Do not fret if the first 
corn cake is not perfect; the more you practice, the easier it will become.50 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCeviche de Camarón
Shrimp Ceviche
Origin: Sinaloa and Nayarit  |  Prep time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 6
The beaches of the Mexican Pacific are the inspiration for this recipe. Typically, 
ceviche is made with raw seafood and cured in citrus juice, but here, we use precooked 
shrimp. In Nayarit, there is a paradisiacal place called Bucerias Nuevo Vallarta. The 
locals visit during the weekend and celebrate by having a feast under a palapa, cheering 
with a cold beer and eating shrimp ceviche tostadas.
½ cup lime juice
2 tablespoons white vinegar
½ teaspoon garlic puree
¼ teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon sea salt
¼ teaspoon coarse ground black 
pepper
¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil1 serrano or jalapeño pepper, finely 
chopped
1 red onion, finely chopped
2 cups cubed Roma tomatoes
1 pound precooked shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
½ cup roughly chopped cilantro
Corn chips or tostadas, for serving
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the lime juice, vinegar, and garlic. Add the 
cumin, salt, and black pepper and whisk again. Add the olive oil slowly, 
whisking to emulsify. Stir in the serrano, onion, and tomatoes.
2. Incorporate the shrimp and refrigerate, covered, for 15 minutes. When ready to 
serve, add the cilantro and pair with corn chips or tostadas.
TIP
If you’re using precooked frozen shrimp, thaw the shrimp under cold running water 
or in the refrigerator. If you can find fresh jumbo shrimp, use those instead. Cook the 
fresh jumbo shrimp in boiling water over high heat for less than 5 minutes, then trans -
fer the shrimp to an ice bath for 10 to 15 minutes. Peel, devein, and remove the tails 
before preparing the ceviche. Keep the ceviche refrigerated until ready to serve. Eat it 
the same day.51 SNACKS AND AppetizersTortas Ahogadas
Drowned Sandwiches
Origin: Jalisco  |  Prep time: 45 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 4
Drowned tortas are sandwiches drenched in two types of sauce. This dish is a Jalisco 
staple. Many home cooks pride themselves in making the best tortas ahogadas with 
salted birote bread, a type of bolillo baguette produced only in the Jalisco region. The 
sauces, pickled onions, and carnitas can be cooked a day in advance to save time.
For the tomato sauce
4 cups tomato puree
½ white onion
3 cloves
2 garlic cloves
1 bay leaf
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper1 teaspoon cooking oil
For the tortas
4 bolillos or small crusty baguettes, 
halved
1 cup warm Mayocoba Refried Beans 
(page 111)
4 cups warm shredded carnitas  
or sliced grilled pork loin
½ cup Chile de Árbol Hot Sauce  
(page 29)
2 cups Pickled Red Onions (page 33)
To make the tomato sauce
1. In a blender, combine the tomato puree, onion, cloves, garlic, bay leaf, cumin, 
oregano, bouillon, salt, and pepper and blend for 5 to 7 minutes.
2. In a saucepan over medium heat, warm the oil. Add the sauce and cook for 15 
minutes. Cover to keep the sauce warm and set aside.
To assemble the tortas
3. Spread the bolillos with refried beans. Add the carnitas. Close the tortas 
and place them in single-serving bowls. Ladle some tomato sauce on 
top and drizzle with hot sauce. Garnish with the pickled onions. Enjoy 
immediately.52 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGMolotes de Queso
Cheese Molotes
Origin: Puebla  |  Prep time: 1 hour  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 6
Molotes are a type of crispy thin quesadilla filled with various ingredients: leftovers, 
cheese, mushrooms, huitlacoche, zucchini flowers, potato, even hot dogs. Molotes 
is a humble dish celebrated with a fall event every year in San Andres Cholula, where 
 molotes originated. Home cooks in the area pride themselves in making this dish 
by hand.
4 cups masa harina
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
½ teaspoon salt
2 cups water, at room temperature, 
plus more as needed
4 cups frying oil (vegetable or corn, not 
peanut), plus ½ cup2 cups shredded Oaxaca or mozzarella 
cheese
Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh Chile 
de Árbol (page 27), for garnish
Mexican crema, for garnish
Shredded lettuce, for garnish
Radishes, for garnish
1. In a large bowl, combine the masa harina with the all-purpose flour, baking 
soda, and salt. Form a small hole in the middle and add the water, a little bit at 
a time. (Do not add all the water at once, as it might need more or less.)
2. Work the masa with your hands (or in a stand mixer with a hook) and integrate 
the remaining water as needed. Continue working the masa for up to 20 minutes 
(10 minutes if using a mixer), until it doesn’t stick to the bowl or your fingers. 
3. Transfer the dough to a clean work surface and knead by hand for another 5 
minutes. Form the dough into a ball, place it in a medium bowl, and cover it with 
a damp cloth. Set aside to rest for 30 minutes.
4. While the dough rests, make the plastic squares for pressing the dough. Using 
scissors, cut off the sealing portion of a gallon freezer bag (the plastic is thicker), 
and cut down both sides to open the bag completely into two plastic squares.
5. In a deep skillet over medium heat, add 4 cups of oil and bring it to 375ºF. Pour 
the remaining ½ cup of oil into a small bowl.53 SNACKS AND Appetizers6. Once the dough has rested, take a portion the size of your palm. Dip the dough 
in the cold oil and make a dough ball (the oil will help the dough release from the 
plastic). Put the dough ball on one side of the plastic. Fold the bag over to cover 
it. Roll the dough ball into a large thin circle. Lift the plastic off one side.
7. Place 1 to 2 tablespoons cheese in the middle of the molote, leaving a distinct 
border. Fold the plastic over and press the molote edges, removing any air and 
sealing it until it looks like a large, elongated quesadilla.
8. When the hot oil is ready, gently remove the molote from the plastic and fry it in 
the oil for 5 minutes on each side, or until golden brown on both sides. Transfer 
the fried molote to a paper towel–lined plate. Repeat with the remaining dough.
9. Serve the molotes hot, garnished with the salsa verde, Mexican crema, and 
perhaps shredded lettuce and radishes.
TIP
Molotes dough has to be soft and malleable. Resting it and using the right amount 
of liquid is key for the best results. The dough has to be rolled thin. Do not stuff the 
 molotes with too much cheese or they won’t seal properly, and make sure the frying 
oil’s temperature does not get too hot.54 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSopes de Pollo
Chicken Masa Harina Cakes
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: comal or cast-iron skillet
Sopes are small masa harina cakes formed in a way that allows for adding many different 
ingredients. Sopes are a quintessential antojito that dates back to pre-Hispanic times. 
Some say they originated in Central and South Mexico, but over time, sopes became 
popular across the country. Depending on the state, sopes are also called “picadas” or 
“pellizcadas.”
2 cups masa harina 
½ teaspoon salt
1 cup lukewarm water (more or less, 
depending on the masa harina)
3 tablespoons cooking oil or lard, plus 
a few drops
1 cup warm Mayocoba Refried Beans 
(page 111), or canned1 cup shredded chicken
3 cups shredded romaine lettuce
1 cup Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with 
Fresh Chile de Árbol (page 27) or Red 
Jalapeño Salsa (page 28)
1 cup Mexican crema
½ cup crumbled cotija cheese
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the masa harina and salt. Slowly mix in the 
water. Work the masa for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it comes away from the 
bowl, doesn’t stick to your fingers, and has a soft, Play-Doh–like texture. Cover 
it with a damp cloth and set aside.
2. Fill a small bowl with water for wetting your fingers to avoid sticking. Grab a 
scoop of masa and form a ball the size of your palm or smaller. Repeat to make 4 
to 6 balls. Keep the balls covered with a damp cloth.
3. Use your hands, a tortilla press, or a wood cutting board to flatten the balls, one 
at a time, into small, thick tortillas.
4. Heat a comal or cast-iron skillet over medium heat. Drop in a few drops of 
water. When the water sizzles, add a few drops of oil. Cook the tortillas for 5 to 
7 minutes on each side, until toasty brown spots appear. Dampen your fingers 
again and pinch the sides and middle of each corn cake to form sopes.55 SNACKS AND Appetizers5. In a skillet, warm the remaining oil. Fry the sopes for a maximum of 3 minutes 
on each side. Remove excess fat with a napkin. Serve each sope topped with 
1 teaspoon of refried beans, shredded chicken, romaine lettuce, tomatillo salsa, 
Mexican crema, and cotija cheese.
TIP
You can find sopes at many Latino stores. Typical sopes are filled with potatoes and 
chorizo, or the classic sope is served with shredded chicken and salsa verde.
Antojitos in Mexico
The word antojito  means “small indulgence”—a small bite to tame 
hunger. Esquites, sopes, quesadillas, chalupas, gorditas, pambazos, 
tlacoyos, atole, and tamales are all antojitos. In pre-Hispanic times, 
corn was the primary source of food. In his letters, Fray Bernardino 
de Sahagún describes antojitos or gorditas as thick tortillas. Tlacoyos 
were sold in the Tlatelolco Tianguis, a farmers’ market during the 
Aztec Empire.
In the 20th century, antojitos became a substitute for meals due to 
the hectic lifestyle in large Mexican cities. People working outside of 
the home needed nourishment. Antojitos became street food. Women 
set up rudimentary kitchens outside their homes and sold quesadillas 
and sopes, or they would prepare tamales at home to sell early on 
the street corner, along with warm atole. Nowadays, everyone eats 
antojitos.56 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGGorditas de Atotonilco 
con Chicharrón
Atotonilco Corn Gorditas with Pork Cracklings
Origin: Guanajuato  |  Prep time: 1 hour  |  Cook time: 40 minutes  |  Serves 8
Special equipment: tortilla press (optional)
Gorditas are very similar to sopes; however, these are deep-fried. Depending on the 
region, the fried gorditas could be called infladitas , which means “fluffed.” These are a 
fun, easy appetizer or snack.
2 cups masa harina 
½ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup lukewarm water (more or less, 
depending on the masa harina)½ cup crushed pork cracklings
¼ cup frying oil
1 cup Grilled Guacamole (page 31)
1 cup Mexican crema
1 cup crumbled queso fresco
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the masa harina, salt, and baking powder. 
Slowly mix in the water. Work the masa for 15 to 20 minutes, or until it comes 
away from the bowl, doesn’t stick to your fingers, and has a soft texture. Add the 
pork cracklings and mix well. Form the dough into balls the size of your palm and 
set aside.
2. Using scissors, cut off the sealing portion of a gallon freezer bag (the plastic is 
thicker), and cut down both sides to open the bag completely into two plastic 
squares. Open the tortilla press (if using) and lay out one of the plastic squares. 
Place one dough ball on top of the plastic and cover it with the second plastic 
square. Clamp down the tortilla press and press gently. (Or use your hands to form 
a round gordita.) The gordita should be thick, not thin. Remove the gordita from the 
press and carefully peel off the plastic. Repeat with the rest of the dough balls.
3. Heat the oil in a deep fryer between 350ºF and 375ºF. Test the oil by frying a small 
portion of dough. If it fries fast, it is too hot.
4. Fry the gorditas for about 5 minutes on each side, until golden brown and 
puffed. Transfer to a paper towel–covered plate to absorb excess oil.
5. Serve topped with guacamole, Mexican crema, and queso fresco.
TIP
Try to find thick pork cracklings with pieces of meat. Process the cracklings in a food 
processor, or put the cracklings in a plastic bag and crush them with a mallet.57 SNACKS AND AppetizersFlautas de Carne 
Deshebrada
Crispy Beef Tacos
Origin: Sinaloa and Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Flautas are long, thin, rolled crispy tacos that resemble a flute. The dish was created in 
Sinaloa to repurpose meat leftovers. However, it is consumed in many states, including 
Mexico City, where flautas are a favorite in many households because they are both 
delicious and economical.
12 large corn or flour tortillas
3 cups shredded beef or chicken
1 cup frying oil
3 cups shredded romaine lettuce
1 cup guacamole1 cup Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with Fresh 
Chile de Árbol (page 27)
1 cup shredded queso fresco
1 cup Mexican crema
1. Warm the tortillas first for easy rolling. Add a small amount of beef to the center 
of each tortilla and roll tightly. Set aside.
2. Heat the oil in a deep skillet to 375ºF. Fry the flautas, a few at a time, until golden 
brown (about 2 to 3 minutes), and then transfer them with tongs to a paper 
towel–covered plate to absorb excess oil.
3. Serve garnished with lettuce, guacamole, tomatillo salsa, queso fresco, and 
Mexican crema.
VARIATION
You can stuff flautas with other ingredients, such as potato, cheese, or carnitas. The 
flautas can be prepared a day in advance, but fry them just before eating.58 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGMemelas Oaxaqueñas
Oaxacan Memelas
Origin: Oaxaca  |  Prep time: 45 minutes, plus 20 minutes to rest  
Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 6  |  Special equipment: tortilla press, comal
The name “memela” comes from the Nahuatl mimilli , which means tortilla. Memelas 
are common in Chiapas, Tlaxcala, Puebla, and Veracruz. Large versions are known 
as huaraches (“sandals”). Another name is tetelas. In Oaxaca, memelas are small and 
round and typically made with blue corn and pork lard.
2 cups masa harina (white or blue)
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups lukewarm water (or less)
1 tablespoon pork lard, at room 
temperature, plus ¼ cup melted
1 cup Mayocoba Refried Beans  
(page 111), or canned1 cup crumbled cotija cheese
1 cup finely chopped white onion
1 cup Spicy Tomatillo Salsa with 
Fresh Chile de Árbol (page 27) or Red 
Jalapeño Salsa (page 28)
½ cup cilantro leaves
1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the masa harina and salt. Slowly mix in the 
water until uniform. Add the room-temperature lard and continue working the 
masa until it comes away from the bowl, doesn’t stick to your fingers, and has a 
soft texture. Allow the masa to rest for at least 20 minutes covered with plastic.
2. While the dough rests, make the plastic squares for the tortilla press. Using 
scissors, cut off the sealing portion of a gallon freezer bag (the plastic is thicker), 
and cut down both sides to open the bag completely into two plastic squares. 
3. Open the tortilla press and lay one plastic square on the press. Grab a small 
portion of the dough and form a ball. Place the ball on the press and cover it with 
the second plastic square. Clamp down the tortilla press and press gently once 
to create a round, thick tortilla.
4. Remove the tortilla from the press and carefully peel off the plastic.59 SNACKS AND Appetizers5. In a comal, cook each memela for 5 to 7 minutes on each side, until browning 
spots appear. Remove the memela from the pan, wet your fingers in cold water, 
and pinch the sides and the middle while still warm.
6. Add a few drops of the melted lard to the bottom of the memela and top it with 
refried beans and cheese. Return it to the comal and cook for another 5 minutes.
7. Serve hot, garnished with onions, salsa, and cilantro.
TIP
Pork lard makes the memelas authentic, but if you cannot find it or don’t want to use it, 
use butter instead.60
66 BIRRIA CLÁSICA61Soups and Stews
Pozole Pozole  62
Sopa de Tortilla Tortilla Soup  64
Sopa Tarasca Tarasca Soup  65
Birria Clásica Classic Birria  66
Sopa de Lima Lime Soup  68
Caldillo de Res con Papas Beef and Potato Stew  69
Caldo de Camarón o Huatapé Huatapé Shrimp Broth   70
Sopa Seca de Fideo Mexican Fideo Soup  71562 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPozole
Pozole
Origin: Mexico and Guerrero  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes
Serves 6  |  Special equipment: Instant Pot or pressure cooker, blender
“Pozole” comes from the Nahuatl pozolli , which means “frothy” and references the 
foam the boiling corn creates. The Aztecs considered pozole a sacred dish and made 
it for religious ceremonies. After the Spanish conquest, pozole became a dish served 
at weddings, festivals, and special celebrations. Each region has its spin and flavor 
profiles on one of the most ancient and traditional Mexican dishes.
For the pozole
1 pound pork loin, cut into large chunks
1 tablespoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon ground cumin
2 tablespoons chicken bouillon
1 teaspoon corn oil
4 cups chicken broth
2 cups water
4 cups cooked canned hominy
3 bay leaves
1 cup sliced red radishes
1 cup chopped red onion
4 cups shredded iceberg lettuce
2 limes, quarteredFor the red sauce
4 guajillo chiles, seeded and stemmed
1 cup hot water
2 garlic cloves, roasted
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon cooking oil
Salt (optional)
To make the pozole
1. Season the pork with the oregano, cumin, and bouillon.
2. In a skillet, heat the oil and sear the pork until golden brown.
3. Transfer the pork to an Instant Pot or pressure cooker. Add the broth, water, 
hominy, and bay leaves. Seal the cooker and choose “Meat/Stew” mode. Cook 
for 40 minutes. Allow the pressure to release naturally.
4. Serve the pozole hot, garnished with the radishes, onion, and lettuce. Enjoy it 
white with a few drops of lime juice, or add red sauce to make it a red pozole.63 Soups and StewsTo make the red sauce
5. Soak the chiles in the hot water for 10 to 15 minutes, until soft. Reserve ½ 
cup of the chile soaking water.
6. Transfer the peppers and reserved soaking water to a blender. Add the garlic, 
bouillon, cumin, and oregano and blend.
7. Strain the sauce into the saucepan, add the oil, and cook for 10 to 15 minutes. 
Taste and add salt (if using).
8. Serve the red sauce in a medium bowl and use it to garnish the pozole.
TIP
Cut the pork loin into big chunks, as it tends to shrink while cooking in the pressure 
cooker. Searing the pork loin first adds flavor and allows even browning. This recipe 
also works with chicken or turkey. The pozole and sauce keep well in airtight contain -
ers in the refrigerator for several days.
Food and Traditions for Mexico's 
Day of the Dead
November 2 is the day families all over Mexico remember and cele -
brate those who have passed. Traditions include visiting tombs and 
putting up an altar with candles, paper decorations, symbols, photos 
of the beloved departed, and food and beverages that the departed 
enjoyed when alive to help them in their journey to return home. Mex -
ican families spread cempasúchil flower petals at the home’s entrance 
to allow the souls to find their way home to enjoy the feast. Typical 
dishes are pan de muerto, café de olla, chicken with mole, carnitas, 
and pozole, all served with homemade corn tortillas, horchata, or hibis -
cus flower agua fresca. Candy skulls, candied pumpkin, and camote 
are on the menu. Depending on the state, the pan de muerto that is 
baked only for this day can change. In Oaxaca, it is called pan de yema 
and has anise notes, whereas in Mexico City, the bread has hints of 
orange blossom water.64 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSopa de Tortilla
Tortilla Soup
Origin: Tlaxcala and Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour  |  Serves 6
This soup, also called sopa Azteca, originated in Tlaxcala, the land of maize, before 
becoming one of the most famous soups all over Mexico. The classic recipe is a lus -
cious soup with a characteristic toasty flavor that pairs well with avocado chunks, 
chicharróns, queso fresco, and Mexican crema. My mom used to make this soup for my 
birthday. It’s a feast.
1 ancho chile, seeded and stemmed
1 pasilla chile, seeded and stemmed
1 cup hot water
1 teaspoon cooking oil
½ medium white onion, diced
2 garlic cloves
8 to 10 Roma tomatoes, halved
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
12 corn tortillas, cut into strips and fried4 cups chicken stock
4 fresh epazote leaves or 1 teaspoon 
dried
Salt (optional)
1 avocado, diced
1 cup diced queso fresco
1 cup pork rinds (optional)
½ cup Mexican crema
1. Soak the ancho and pasilla chiles in the water for 15 minutes, or until soft. 
Reserve ½ cup of the chile soaking water.
2. In a skillet, heat the oil. Sauté the onion for 5 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté 
for 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes and bouillon and cook for 8 minutes.
3. Transfer the peppers and reserved soaking water to a blender. Add the 
vegetable mixture and a handful of fried tortilla strips. Blend.
4. Transfer the mixture to a saucepan over medium heat and cook for 10 to 15 
minutes. When the sauce starts bubbling, add the stock and epazote. Simmer for 
30 minutes. Taste and add salt (if using).
5. Serve with a handful of fried tortilla strips. Garnish with avocado, queso fresco, 
pork rinds (if using), and ribbons of Mexican crema.65 Soups and StewsSopa Tarasca
Tarasca Soup
Origin: Michoacán  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes
Serves 6  |  Special equipment: blender
This dish honors the Purépecha heritage and the Tarasco civilization of Michoacán. 
The soup is similar to tortilla soup but has pinto beans mixed into the broth. This is a 
humble but flavorful dish, and it is a staple of this region.
1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 ancho chile, seeded and stemmed, 
plus 1 chile seeded, stemmed, sliced, 
and fried, for garnish
½ roasted small white onion
2 garlic cloves, roasted
4 Roma tomatoes, roasted, peeled, and 
seeded
2 tablespoons chicken bouillon3 cups water or vegetable stock, 
divided, plus a little for blending
2½ cups canned pinto beans
Salt (optional)
2 cups fried tortilla strips, for garnish
½ avocado diced, for garnish
½ cup Mexican crema, for garnish
½ cup cotija cheese, for garnish
1. Heat the oil in a soup pot over medium heat and quick-fry the ancho chile for 2 
to 3 minutes. Set aside. In the same oil, fry the onion, garlic, and tomatoes.
2. Season the fried vegetables with the bouillon and add 1 cup of water and the 
fried ancho chile. Simmer for 7 to 10 minutes, until the chile is soft.
3. Transfer the mixture to a blender with the beans and a little water. Blend  
on high. Pour the blended soup into the soup pot and add the remaining  
2 cups of water. Simmer for 15 to 20 minutes. Taste and add salt (if using).
4. Serve hot, garnished with tortilla strips, fried ancho, avocado, Mexican crema, 
and cheese.
TIP
Replace the vegetable stock with homemade bean broth for a more authentic result. 
To make this dish vegetarian, replace the chicken bouillon with vegetable bouillon. 
The roasting provides a smoky note, but it can be skipped; just sauté the onion, garlic, 
and tomatoes with the oil.66 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGBirria Clásica
Classic Birria
Origin: Jalisco  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour 10 minutes  |  Serves 8
Special equipment: Instant Pot or pressure cooker, blender
This 17th-century recipe originated in Atequiza, Jalisco, which is known as the world’s 
birria capital. Birria is a spicy, fatty lamb consommé. Nowadays, birria is a popular dish 
among families from all over Mexico who prepare it for Sunday brunch. Typical birria 
uses lamb; however, in certain areas, it is made with goat or beef. Do not confuse birria 
with barbacoa, which is a barbecued lamb broth prepared using a different technique 
and is not spicy.
1 pound lamb spareribs or loin chops, 
cut into chunks
1 pound boneless lamb shoulder, cut 
into large chunks
1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon coarse sea salt
1 tablespoon freshly ground black 
pepper
1 tablespoon cooking oil
2 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
3 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 chiles de árbol, stemmed and seeded 
(optional)
1 small onion, cut into chunks
3 garlic cloves3 large Roma tomatoes, halved
4 whole allspice berries
3 cloves
1 cinnamon stick or 1 teaspoon ground
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon marjoram
2 bay leaves
1 tablespoon beef bouillon
2 cups beef stock
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
3 carrots, peeled and cut into thick 
sticks
4 cups water
Salt (optional)
1. Season the lamb spareribs and shoulder with the cumin, salt, and pepper.
2. Set the Instant Pot or pressure cooker to the “Sauté” mode. Add the oil and 
quick-fry the ancho, guajillo, and árbol chiles for 3 minutes or less. Remove and 
set aside.67 Soups and Stews3. Sauté the onion and garlic. Add the tomatoes, allspice, cloves, cinnamon, 
oregano, marjoram, bay leaves, and bouillon. Cook for 7 minutes. Add the fried 
chiles and stock and simmer for another 15 minutes, or until the chiles are soft. 
Remove and reserve the bay leaves, allspice, and cinnamon stick.
4. Transfer the mixture to a blender and blend into a sauce. Strain and return it to 
the pot. Return the bay leaves, cinnamon, and allspice to the pot as well. Add 
the lamb, vinegar, carrots, and water. Taste and add salt (if using). Seal the lid and 
cook on high for 30 to 45 minutes. If using a regular pressure cooker, cook for 
1 hour. Allow the pressure to release naturally. Prepare and serve as desired.
TIP
Shred the birria for tacos. Have some shredded Jack cheese handy. Submerge torti -
llas in the birria broth and stuff them with cheese and shredded meat. Or fold, fry, and 
serve the tacos paired with a cup of birria consommé, garnished with chopped onion, 
fresh cilantro, lime juice, and drops of Dried Chile Oil Sauce (page 32).
Variation
Replace the lamb with beef chamberete, beef cheeks, lean beef, or oxtail. This con -
sommé must be fatty, so the beef requires a mix of lean and fatty cuts. This dish is best 
when cooked the night before to allow the flavors to develop.68 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSopa de Lima
Lime Soup
Origin: Yucatán  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: cast-iron Dutch oven
Sopa de lima is an aromatic, flavorful comfort food from Yucatán. Originally, the soup 
was created by Maya cooks using wild turkey. With the Spanish conquest and the 
 arrival of citrus and chickens, the soup transformed into what we know today. This 
version uses chicken and the same condiments the Mayas used.
1½ tablespoons cooking oil, divided
2 bay leaves
2 cloves
2 whole allspice berries
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
½ cinnamon stick
2 large skinless, bone-in chicken 
breasts
3 garlic cloves, charred
6 cups water or chicken stock
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon or salt½ red onion, chopped
2 large ají dulce (sweet peppers), 
chopped, or 1 green bell pepper
2 cups diced and seeded Roma 
tomatoes
2 limas, sliced (or yellow lemons)
¼ cup lime juice
2 to 3 cups fried tortilla strips, for 
serving
½ cup Habanero-Tomato Salsa  
(page 30), for serving
1. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a cast-iron Dutch oven over medium heat. Add the 
bay leaves, cloves, allspice, oregano, and cinnamon and sauté for 3 minutes 
or less.
2. Add the chicken and garlic. Pour the water over the top and add the bouillon. 
Cover and simmer for 30 to 45 minutes. When the chicken is ready, remove it 
from the Dutch oven and shred it. Strain the chicken broth and set it aside.
3. Heat the remaining ½ tablespoon of oil in the same pot over medium heat. 
Add the onion and cook for 3 minutes. Add the ají dulce and cook for another 
5 minutes. Then, add the tomatoes and cook until soft.
4. Combine the mixture with the strained broth. Incorporate the chicken, limas, and 
lime juice. Cover and simmer the soup over low heat for 7 to 10 minutes. Take 
care not to boil the soup.
5. Serve with fried tortilla strips and topped with salsa.69 Soups and StewsCaldillo de Res con Papas
Beef and Potato Stew
Origin: Chihuahua and Durango  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
Serves 6  |  Special equipment: cast-iron Dutch oven
Caldillo is a comforting, homey, brothy stew perfect for a winter day and when we 
need to feel closer to home. This version is my great-grandmother’s recipe. My great- 
grandfather loved adding chopped serrano pepper to this soup and garnishing it with 
cilantro. This caldillo is common in Durango, too. It became famous as the dish used to 
feed the workers responsible for building the railroad in the 1900s.
1 pound beef filet, cut into chunks
1 teaspoon salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
1½ tablespoons cooking oil, divided
½ white onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, chopped
2 Roma tomatoes, seeded and diced
1 tablespoon beef bouillon2 large or 3 small yellow potatoes, 
peeled and cut into chunks
2 cups beef stock
3 cups water
2 poblano peppers, roasted, seeded, 
peeled, and cut into strips
Chihuahua-Style Flour Tortillas 
(page 24), for serving
1. Season the beef with the salt and black pepper. Set aside. 
2. Preheat a cast-iron Dutch oven over high heat. Pour 1 tablespoon of oil into 
the Dutch oven and reduce the heat to medium. Add the beef and sear for 
5 to 7 minutes. Remove the beef from the Dutch oven and set aside.
3. Add the remaining ½ tablespoon of oil to the Dutch oven and sauté the onion for 
5 minutes. Add the garlic, tomatoes, and bouillon and cook for 5 minutes, stirring 
to avoid sticking.
4. Add the potatoes, beef, stock, and water and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the 
peppers and stir again. Cook, covered, for another 15 to 20 minutes, until the 
potatoes are tender.
5. Serve the caldillo hot with flour tortillas.70 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCaldo de Camarón  
o Huatapé
Huatapé Shrimp Broth
Origin: Tamaulipas  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: blender
Huatapé’s roots are Nahua and Totonac, and the meaning of huatapé  is “to eat chile.” 
In the north of Veracruz, they make it green using jalapeños and epazote. Others make 
it with pork, chicken, and potatoes.
½ white onion
3 garlic cloves
4 large Roma tomatoes, halved and 
seeded
3 ancho chiles, stemmed, seeded, 
and soaked in hot water, with ½ cup 
soaking water reserved
1 tablespoon cooking oil
2 tablespoons shrimp bouillon
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper4 cups water, or 2 cans shrimp broth 
and 2 cups water
2 tablespoons masa harina, diluted 
with ½ cup water
5 epazote leaves
1 pound fresh large shrimp, peeled and 
deveined
Lime wedges, for serving
Dried Chile Oil Sauce (page 32), for 
serving
1. In a blender, combine the onion, garlic, tomatoes, and chiles with the reserved 
chile soaking water. Blend on high to a thick sauce.
2. Heat the oil in a soup pot over medium heat. Add the blended mixture and cook 
for 15 minutes.
3. Season the soup with the bouillon, salt, and black pepper. Simmer for  
5 minutes, then add the water. Cover the pot and cook for 15 minutes more.
4. Add the masa harina and whisk until thick. Add the epazote. Cook for another 5 
minutes.
5. Five minutes before serving, add the shrimp to the soup and cook for  
3 to 4 minutes, until pink. Serve the soup hot with lime wedges and dried 
chile oil sauce.71 Soups and StewsSopa Seca de Fideo
Mexican Fideo Soup
Origin: Mexico City  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 6
Fideo is a quintessential homestyle dish, originating in the 17th century. It is rooted 
in the Spanish heritage. The secret to a delicious fideo is frying the pasta and using 
chipotle in adobo sauce.
½ cup cooking oil
7 ounces fideo pasta
1 cup Mexican-style canned tomato 
puree with jalapeño
½ chipotle en adobo, or ½ teaspoon 
chipotle sauce (see steps 1 and 3 of 
Chicken in Creamy Chipotle Sauce, 
page 80)1 tablespoon chicken bouillon or salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
1 cup water
½ cup crumbled queso fresco
½ cup Mexican crema
1 avocado, sliced
1. Heat the oil to 250ºF in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the fideo 
pasta and fry for about 2 minutes, until golden brown. Transfer the pasta to 
a paper towel–lined plate and set aside. Remove and discard any excess oil 
from the pan. 
2. In the same saucepan over low heat, combine the tomato puree, chipotle en 
adobo, bouillon, and black pepper. Simmer the sauce for 7 to  
10 minutes. 
3. Add the water and fideo. Stir and cook, covered, for 10 to 15 minutes, until the 
liquid has been absorbed and the pasta is tender.
4. Serve garnished with the queso fresco, ribbons of Mexican crema, and avocado.
TIP
You can use the same method to prepare any short pasta, such as shells, stars, and 
letters. Use queso Oaxaca or queso Chihuahua. Avoid adding more liquid than neces -
sary. Omit the chicken bouillon and use salt for a vegetarian version.72
98 TAMALES DE CERDO73Main Courses
Pescado a la  Veracruzana Veracruz Fish   74
Camarones Endiablados Shrimp Diablo   75
Arroz a la Tumbada Tumbada Rice   76 
Pescado a la Talla Guerrero-Style Fish   78 
Jaibas Rellenas Stuffed Crabs   79
Pollo en Salsa Cremosa de Chipotles Chicken in Creamy Chipotle Sauce   80
Pollo Pibil Chicken Pibil   81
Mole Poblano con Pollo Chicken in Poblano Mole   82
Encacahuatado de Pollo Chicken in Peanut Sauce   84
Pipián Rojo con Pavo Red Pipián with Turkey   86
Albóndigas de Res al  Chipotle Mexican Beef Meatballs with Chipotle   88
Picadillo de Res Beef Picadillo   90
Milanesa de Res Beef Milanesa   91
Salpicón de Res Beef Salpicón   92
Carne Asada Beef Asada   94
Lomo de Cerdo en Salsa de Ciruelas con Chipotle  
Pork in Prune-Chipotle Sauce   95
Cerdo en Adobo Pork Adobo   96
Chicharrón de Cerdo en Salsa Verde Pork Chicharrón in Green Sauce   97
Tamales de Cerdo Pork Tamales   98
Enchiladas Mineras Miner Enchiladas   100
Chiles Rellenos Stuffed Poblano Peppers   102
Chorizo de Cerdo Casero Homemade Pork Chorizo   104674 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPescado a la 
Veracruzana
Veracruz Fish
Origin: Veracruz  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes  |  Serves 4
This dish from Sotavento, Veracruz, is prepared with huachinango (red snapper), a 
fish common in the area. Typically, the fish is cooked whole and poached in tomato 
sauce. This recipe is a clear example of how two culinary cultures incorporate ingredi -
ents from the old world, local favorites, and hot peppers. Pescado a la Veracruzana is a 
family favorite for Lent, too.
4 fillets red snapper or rockfish
½ teaspoon coarse salt
1 tablespoon olive oil
½ white onion, sliced
3 garlic cloves, minced
4 cups diced tomatoes
2 bay leaves
1 teaspoon dried oregano or marjoram
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon2 cups tomato puree
4 tablespoons pimento-stuffed Spanish 
olives
2 tablespoons capers
½ cup fish broth or water
4 whole pickled jalapeños
1 pound boiler potatoes, peeled and 
cooked
Cooked white rice, for serving
1. Season the snapper with the salt and refrigerate, covered, for 30 minutes.
2. Heat the oil in a sauté pan over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté for 5 
minutes. Stir in the garlic, tomatoes, bay leaves, oregano, and bouillon.
3. Add the tomato puree and cook for another 7 minutes. Stir in the olives and 
capers.
4. Add the broth and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the jalapeños, lower the heat, and 
continue cooking, covered, for 5 minutes.
5. Incorporate the potatoes and snapper and cook, covered, for another 5 to 7 
minutes. Serve the fish with the sauce and a side of white rice.75
 Main CoursesCamarones Endiablados
Shrimp Diablo
Origin: Guerrero  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 25 minutes  |  Serves 4
Shrimp diablo is a classic in Mexican cuisine, typically served at parties and special 
occasions because shrimp are a luxury ingredient. This dish is typical during Lent, too. 
After cooking it only once, everyone in your family will want this dish on the weekly 
menu. It is one of those dinner dishes that looks fancy but is easy to prepare.
1 pound fresh large shrimp, cleaned 
and deveined
1 teaspoon sazón Latino (see tip)
1½ tablespoons olive oil, divided
1 garlic clove, chopped
4 cups tomato puree2 tablespoons chipotle sauce (see 
steps 1 and 3 of Chicken in Creamy 
Chipotle Sauce, page 80)
1 thyme sprig
2 bay leaves
1 tablespoon (or 1 cube) shrimp bouillon
4 cups cooked white rice
1. In a medium bowl, combine the shrimp and sazón Latino. Set aside.
2. Heat 1 tablespoon of oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the shrimp and sauté 
for about 2 minutes, until they turn opaque. Set aside.
3. Heat the remaining ½ tablespoon of oil in a saucepan over medium heat. Add 
the garlic and sauté for 2 minutes or less. Stir in the tomato puree, chipotle 
sauce, thyme, bay leaves, and bouillon. Cover and cook for 10 to 15 minutes.
4. Reduce the heat to low, stir in the shrimp, and simmer for 2 minutes. Serve over 
a bed of white rice.
TIP
Sazón Latino is a seasoning mix that can be found in the international foods aisle at 
many grocery stores. Or make your own by mixing equal amounts of oregano, cumin, 
and freshly ground black pepper. Add salt as needed. The shrimp bouillon can be 
replaced with chicken bouillon.76 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGArroz a la Tumbada
Tumbada Rice
Origin: Veracruz  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 55 minutes  |  Serves 8
Special equipment: blender
Tumbado  or tumbada  means “to throw.” Urban legend says that an inexperienced 
fisherman created this recipe by throwing all the seafood he had on hand into a pot, 
resulting in a mix between paella and seafood soup.
½ white onion, roasted
3 garlic cloves, roasted
3 Roma tomatoes, roasted and peeled
1 or 2 jalapeño peppers, roasted
1 tablespoon tomato paste
2½ cups water, divided
2 tablespoons chicken or shrimp 
bouillon
6 cups seafood broth, divided
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper4 tablespoons olive oil
2 cups long-grain rice, presoaked and 
drained
1 bunch epazote or cilantro
4 uncooked crab legs, or 2 cups 
crabmeat
10 clams, in the shell
1 cup cooked octopus chunks
2 thick, uncooked red snapper fillets, 
skin-on and cut into large chunks
6 large uncooked, unpeeled, deveined 
shrimp
1. In a blender, combine the onion, garlic, tomatoes, jalapeño, tomato paste, and 
½ cup of water. Blend into a puree.
2. In a deep sauté pan over medium heat, add the puree and cook for 5 minutes. 
Add the bouillon and 1 cup of seafood broth and cook for another 7 minutes. 
Season with salt and black pepper. Set aside. This sauce needs to be a bit salty, 
as it is the base that will flavor all the seafood.
3. Heat the oil in a separate skillet over medium heat. Add the rice and fry for 7 
minutes, until toasty and well coated. Add the rice to the tomato puree and stir. 
Pour in the remaining 5 cups of seafood broth and 2 cups of water.
4. Add the epazote, crabs, and clams. Cover and continue cooking over medium 
heat for 15 to 20 minutes. Add the octopus and red snapper and cover again.77 Main Courses5. Check the water level. Add more fish stock or water, if needed. This dish is 
liquidy but not a soup. Taste and add more salt, if needed. Cook for another 10 
minutes. Add the shrimp, cover, and cook for 5 to 7 minutes, until pink.
TIP
The octopus can be cooked in a pressure cooker with salt, onion, and bay leaves, or 
it can be seasoned with your favorite seafood mix and grilled. Some fisheries sell it 
precooked and ready to use. If you prefer not to add it, substitute another seafood of 
your choice.
Introduction of Pork to Mexico
Some of the things the Spanish conquest brought to Mexico were 
condiments, olive oil, rice, sugar, garlic, and onions. The Spaniards also 
brought domesticated animals, such as sheep, cows, chickens, goats, 
and pigs. Hernán Cortés was responsible for introducing pork to la 
Nueva España. Many of these pigs were Iberian, Celtic, Neapolitan, 
and Asian. Cross breeding created the Mexican hairless pig, a breed 
raised for more than a century by the Mayas, who called it t’ooroch 
k’eek’een . Since then, the industry has evolved, and nowadays, most 
pork consumed in Mexico comes from local farms and American swine 
have replaced the Mexican hairless pig. However, traditional backyard 
pig production still exists. If there had been no Spanish conquest, tacos 
al pastor, cochinita, chicharrón, lard, and the many pork dishes we 
enjoy today would not have existed. Did you know the Spaniards also 
brought the frying technique? Slow cooking and frying in pork lard are 
what makes carnitas so unique.78 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPescado a la Talla
Guerrero-Style Fish
Origin: Guerrero  |  Prep time: 1 hour  |  Cook time: 1 hour 15 minutes  |  Serves 4 to 6
Special equipment: charcoal grill, blender, grilling basket
This dish was created half a century ago by Gloria Suazo, a home cook turned restau -
rant owner in the 1970s. She still owns the humble palapa converted into an eatery in 
Barra Vieja. I have enjoyed this dish while watching the big waves and the unforgettable 
Acapulco sunrise.
1 tablespoon cooking oil, plus more for 
brushing
½ onion, cut into chunks
2 garlic cloves
3 guajillo chiles, seeded and stemmed
2 ancho chiles, seeded and stemmed
1½ cups water
1 teaspoon cumin1 teaspoon marjoram
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
1 large red snapper, butterflied
½ cup mayonnaise
1 cup adobo sauce, for basting
1 cup melted butter, for basting
1. Preheat a charcoal grill to between 400ºF and 450ºF.
2. In a skillet, heat the oil over high heat and fry the onion for 5 to 7 minutes, 
until golden brown. Reduce the heat to medium, add the garlic, and sauté 
for 5 minutes. Add the guajillo and ancho chiles and fry for 2 minutes, stirring 
constantly. Add the water and cook for 15 minutes, or until the chiles are soft.
3. Transfer the mixture to a blender and blend until smooth. Strain and return the 
sauce to the skillet. Season the mixture with the cumin, marjoram, black pepper, 
and bouillon. Cook for another 10 minutes. Remove the skillet from heat and set 
aside to cool.
4. Open the grilling basket and brush it with oil. Place the snapper on one side, 
skin-side down. Brush evenly with the mayonnaise, and then with some adobo 
sauce.
5. Close the grilling basket and grill for 5 minutes. Turn the fish and grill for another 
5 minutes. Turn the fish again. Add more adobo to moisten the fish and grill 
again. In total, you will turn the fish six to eight times, cooking it for 5 minutes 
each time, until it shows grilling marks. Between turns, baste the fish with more 
adobo sauce and the melted butter.
6. Open the grilling basket and serve the fish on a large plate. 79 Main CoursesJaibas Rellenas
Stuffed Crabs
Origin: Tamaulipas  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes  |  Serves 4
This is a quintessential dish from Tamaulipas and the symbol of the city of  Tampico, 
but it is also enjoyed in Veracruz. There are many ways to make this dish, but all 
versions are delicious and simple to prepare. You can use cooked crabmeat and shell-
shaped plates for serving, or use the crab stuffing for making empanadas or croquettes.
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 small white onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves
1 cup diced Roma tomatoes
2 cups cooked crabmeat
1 tablespoon Chile de Árbol Hot Sauce 
(page 29)¼ cup cilantro leaves, chopped
4 crab shells, cleaned
2 tablespoons bread crumbs
1 tablespoon butter
4 cups shredded lettuce
2 limes, quartered
1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF.
2. Heat the oil in a sauté pan over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté  
for 2 to 3 minutes, until translucent. Add the garlic and sauté for another  
2 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes and cook for 5 minutes.
3. Reduce the heat to low and add the crabmeat and hot sauce. Mix and simmer, 
covered, for 15 minutes. Remove the sauté pan from the heat and mix the 
cilantro into the crab stuffing.
4. Stuff the crab shells with the stuffing and arrange them on a baking sheet. 
Sprinkle the stuffed shells with the bread crumbs and dot them with the butter. 
Bake for 10 minutes, or until the bread crumbs are toasted.
5. Serve over a bed of lettuce with a lime wedge.
TIP
Many fish counters sell cooked crabmeat and clean shells. If you cannot find crab 
shells, use mini pie pans or purchase Nantucket scallop shells on  Amazon.80 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPollo en Salsa Cremosa 
de Chipotles
Chicken in Creamy Chipotle Sauce
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: blender
Chicken dishes are lifesavers for many busy moms. I know my mom sometimes was out 
of ideas and would get inspired watching a cooking TV show segment. She recreated 
this recipe using the tips of a famous home cook named Chepina Peralta.
1 tablespoon cooking oil
2 garlic cloves
½ white onion, cut into chunks
4 skinless chicken breasts
1 teaspoon salt
Pinch freshly ground black pepper
1 cup Mexican crema or heavy 
(whipping) cream
1 cup evaporated milk8 ounces cream cheese
2 canned chipotles in adobo
2 tablespoons chipotle adobo sauce
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
½ cup fresh milk
Mexican white rice, for serving
Shredded cotija cheese or crumbled 
queso fresco, for serving
1. In a skillet, heat the oil over medium heat and fry the garlic for 2 minutes. 
Add the onion and fry for 5 to 7 minutes, until the onion and garlic are golden 
brown. Remove from heat and set aside.
2. Season the chicken with the salt and pepper and fry it in the skillet over medium 
heat for 5 to 7 minutes per side, or until it reaches an internal temperature of 
165ºF. Remove the skillet from the heat, cover with a lid, and set aside.
3. In a blender, combine the onion mixture, cream, milk, cream cheese, chipotles, 
adobo sauce, and bouillon. Blend for 3 minutes, until smooth.
4. Return the skillet to very low heat. Pour the fresh milk into the skillet, add the 
chicken, and then the sauce. Mix well, cover, and cook for 10 to  
15 minutes. Do not boil as the sauce could curdle.
5. Serve the chicken with creamy chipotle sauce and a side of Mexican white rice. 
Garnish with shredded cotija cheese or crumbled queso fresco.81 Main CoursesPollo Pibil
Chicken Pibil
Origin: Yucatán  |  Prep time: 10 minutes, plus at least 1 hour to marinate  
Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4 to 6  |  Special equipment: food processor,  
Instant Pot or pressure cooker
The word “pibil” comes from the ancient Maya technique of cooking meat wrapped 
in banana leaves in an underground oven made of stone and wood called a pib. This 
tradition still exists but is used only when catering for parties or special events. The 
pibil sauce used in chicken or cochinita pibil is called recado, and it is a fusion of many 
cuisines, including Maya, French, and Caribbean. It is incredible how a condiment can 
represent cultural heritage in such a delicious way.
1 (3.5-ounce) package achiote or 
annatto paste
3 cups orange juice
½ cup apple cider vinegar
3 garlic cloves
3 teaspoons Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon ground cumin
2 teaspoons salt
4 bone-in, skin-on chicken breasts1 tablespoon pork lard or cooking oil
3 bay leaves
1 large banana leaf, fresh or frozen and 
thawed (optional)
Mexican Rice (page 108), for serving
Warm corn tortillas, for serving
1 cup Pickled Red Onions (page 33), for 
serving
1. In a food processor, combine the achiote paste, orange juice, vinegar, garlic, 
oregano, cumin, and salt. Process for 5 to 7 minutes into a sauce.
2. Put the chicken and sauce in a covered container. Refrigerate for at least 1 hour 
or up to overnight. The longer the chicken marinates, the better flavor it will have. 
Remove from the marinade.
3. Set an Instant Pot to the “Sauté” function. Heat the lard. Remove the chicken 
from the marinade and sear it on both sides in the pot. Add the bay leaves and 
all the marinade to the pot. Cover the chicken with the banana leaf (if using); this 
will provide an authentic flavor.
4. Seal the pressure cooker and set to high. Cook for 30 minutes, then perform 
a quick release. Remove the bones from the chicken and serve with a side of 
Mexican rice, warm corn tortillas, and pickled onions.82 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGMole Poblano con Pollo
Chicken in Poblano Mole
Origin: Puebla  |  Prep time: 1 hour  |  Cook time: 1 hour 50 minutes  |  Serves 8
Special equipment: blender
Mole originated many years ago in Puebla, where nuns from the Convent of Santa Rosa 
developed this recipe. The original recipe calls for many ingredients that provide the 
unique flavor of this magical sauce. In my search for simplified recipes for effortless 
cooking, I developed this mole that is as tasty as the original but can be prepared at 
home easily.
For the chicken
1 whole chicken, cut into segments
½ white onion
2 garlic cloves
2 carrots, peeled and halved
3 celery sticks, including leaves
1 bunch fresh cilantro
6 cups water
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
For the mole sauce
4 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
4 mulato chiles, stemmed and seeded
5 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded
3 cups hot water
1 cup roasted peanuts
2 medium tomatoes, roasted3 garlic cloves, roasted
½ white onion, roasted
⅓ cup peanut butter or almond butter
½ overripe plantain, cut into rounds
2 to 3 cups chicken broth
90 grams (about 3 ounces) Mexican 
chocolate, broken into pieces
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
½ teaspoon ground cloves
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt
3 tablespoons sesame seeds, toasted
Mexican Rice (page 108), for serving
Frijoles de olla, for serving
Warm corn tortillas, for serving
To make the chicken
1. In a deep soup pot with a lid, combine the chicken, onion, garlic, carrots, 
celery, cilantro, water, and bouillon. Cover and cook over low heat for 45 
minutes. Do not allow the water to boil if you prefer a clear broth. (Or cook in 
an Instant Pot on high for 20 to 30 minutes, with a quick pressure release.) 
Remove the chicken. Strain the broth into a sealable container and freeze or 
refrigerate for later use.83 Main CoursesTo make the mole sauce
2. Soak the ancho, mulato, and guajillo peppers in the hot water for 10 to  
15 minutes until soft. Reserve 1½ cups of the chile soaking water.
3. Meanwhile, in a skillet over medium heat, toast the peanuts for 5 to  
7 minutes, constantly stirring to avoid burning. Set aside.
4. In a blender, combine the soaked chiles, reserved soaking water, tomatoes, 
garlic, onion, peanut butter, plantain, and toasted peanuts. Blend for  
7 minutes, until smooth and thick.
5. Pour the blended paste into a soup pot over medium heat. Add the broth and 
chocolate and whisk for 8 to 10 minutes, until the chocolate is melted. Season 
with the cumin, cinnamon, cloves, and bouillon. Stir and taste. Add salt as 
needed. Stir in the sesame seeds. Whisk again and let simmer for 20 minutes.
6. Remove the skin from the chicken and add the chicken to the mole sauce. Cover 
the pot and warm the chicken over low heat for 10 minutes. Mole is a thick sauce, 
but add more chicken broth if needed.
7. Serve with a side of Mexican rice, frijoles de olla, and warm corn tortillas. You can 
also sprinkle some toasted sesame seeds on top of the chicken.
TIP
Mole sauce freezes well. It is not a spicy sauce, but if you prefer it with a kick, add 
1 or 2 dried chipotles. You can use chicken breasts instead of a whole chicken. The 
chicken broth is better homemade, but canned broth is a suitable replacement for 
precooked, oven-roasted chicken. Mole can be served with turkey, too, and used for 
making enmoladas or enchiladas.84 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGEncacahuatado de Pollo
Chicken in Peanut Sauce
Origin: Veracruz and Oaxaca  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour 20 minutes
Serves 4  |  Special equipment: blender
In Oaxaca and Veracruz, this dish is part of the daily menu, but it is a menu option for 
special occasions, too. Chicken is the protein of choice; however, in Veracruz, home 
cooks prepare it with pork. And in Mexico City, some like to use beef skirt. All options 
are delicious. This complex, rich sauce is nearly as popular as mole poblano.
For the chicken
4 skinless chicken breasts or thighs
½ white onion
2 garlic cloves
3 celery stalks, including leaves
1 mint sprig
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
6 cups water
For the sauce
2 tablespoons cooking oil, divided
2 garlic cloves
½ white onion
3 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
1 chipotle pepper, stemmed and seeded
2 cups water4 Roma tomatoes, roasted and peeled
3 tablespoons sesame seeds, toasted
1½ cups peanuts, roasted
1½ cups chicken stock
Pinch allspice
Pinch ground cloves
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
½ teaspoon cinnamon
½ teaspoon cumin
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt (optional)
Cooked rice, for serving
Cooked pinto beans, for serving
Homemade Corn Tortillas (page 22), 
for serving
To make the chicken
1. In a medium soup pot over low heat, combine the chicken, onion, garlic, celery, 
mint, bouillon, and water. Cover and cook for 45 minutes. Reserve the broth.85 Main CoursesTo make the sauce
2. In a sauté pan, heat 1 tablespoon of oil over medium heat and fry the garlic 
and onion for 5 to 8 minutes. Set aside. In the same oil, fry the ancho chiles 
and chipotle pepper for 2 minutes or less. It is crucial to avoid burning the 
chiles and pepper, as they can turn bitter. Turn off the heat and add the 
water. Soak the chiles and pepper for 10 minutes, or until soft. Reserve the 
soaking water.
3. Transfer the chiles and pepper to a blender with the tomatoes, garlic-onion 
mixture, sesame seeds, and peanuts. Blend, adding just enough reserved 
soaking water or chicken broth to create a smooth sauce.
4. In a sauté pan, heat the remaining 1 tablespoon of oil over medium heat and fry 
the allspice, cloves, black pepper, cinnamon, and cumin for 1 minute. Then pour 
in the peanut sauce, stir, and cook for 5 minutes. Add the bouillon and keep 
stirring to keep the sauce from sticking. Taste and add salt (if using).
5. Reduce the heat to low. Add the chicken, cover, and simmer for 10 minutes. 
Serve with a side of rice or pinto beans and enjoy with warm tortillas.
TIP
For more flavorful chicken, poach it in chicken broth with herbs. Other options include 
adding cooked potatoes, chayote, or zucchini. The peanut sauce works well with pork 
butt, ribs, or a leaner cut. Cook the pork in an Instant Pot for 45 minutes and incorpo -
rate it into the sauce.86 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPipián Rojo con Pavo
Red Pipián with Turkey
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour 5 minutes  |  Serves 6  
Special equipment: Instant Pot or pressure cooker, food processor or blender
This dish is an ode to my pre-Hispanic roots, as it uses all the ingredients that were 
locally available before the Spanish conquest. Pipián was the Aztec Emperor Moctezu -
ma’s favorite dish and was called “totolin patzcalmollo.” The main ingredient is pepita 
and dried chiles, and the sauce can be green or red, depending on the type of tomatoes 
and chiles used. Every time my mom made pipián at home, it was like a feast.
For the turkey
1 pound turkey tenderloin
½ white onion
2 garlic cloves
2 carrots, peeled and halved
3 celery sticks, including leaves
3 bay leaves
3 thyme sprigs
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
4 cups water
For the pipián sauce
2 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
4 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 chipotle peppers, stemmed and 
seeded
1½ cups hot water
3 Roma tomatoes, roasted and peeled
2 garlic cloves, roasted½ white onion, roasted
3 slices baguette, fried, or ⅓ cup 
toasted croutons
1½ cups pepitas, roasted
4 tablespoons sesame seeds, toasted
1 tablespoon cooking oil
Pinch allspice
Pinch ground cloves
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
½ teaspoon cinnamon
½ teaspoon cumin
2 cups turkey broth
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt (optional)
Cooked white rice, for serving
Homemade Corn Tortillas (page 22), 
for serving
To cook the turkey
1. Combine the turkey, onion, garlic, carrots, celery, bay leaves, thyme, bouillon, 
and water in an Instant Pot or pressure cooker. Seal the lid and cook for 15 to 
20 minutes on high. Perform a quick release. Remove and set aside the turkey 
and reserve the broth.87 Main CoursesTo make the pipián sauce
2. In a medium bowl, soak the ancho chiles, guajillo chiles, and chipotle 
peppers in the hot water for 10 to 15 minutes, until softened. Reserve  
1½ cups of the soaking water.
3. Transfer the chiles and peppers to a food processor or blender. Add the 
tomatoes, garlic, onion, bread, pepitas, sesame seeds, and reserved soaking 
water and process for 4 to 6 minutes, until smooth.
4. In a sauté pan, heat the oil over low heat. Add the allspice, cloves, black pepper, 
cinnamon, and cumin and fry for 1 minute, then pour in the sauce. Add the broth 
and bouillon. This sauce is thick and smooth, but if it is too thick, add more water 
or broth. Cook the sauce for 15 minutes, stirring. Taste and add salt (if using).
5. Thickly slice the turkey and add it to the sauce. Cover and simmer over low heat 
for 15 minutes. Serve the pipián with a side of white rice and warm tortillas.
VARIATION
Replace the tomatoes with 6 tomatillos and the dried chiles with 3 serrano or jalapeño 
peppers to make a green pipián. Try it with chicken or pork. Bulk it up with chayote or 
round zucchini.88 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGAlbóndigas de Res  
al Chipotle
Mexican Beef Meatballs with Chipotle
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: blender
Albóndigas are a staple in many households. At my great-grandmother’s home, this 
dish was part of the weekly menu. Mexican cuisine is all about layering flavors, and 
these chipotle meatballs are a great example of this fact. Each bite is full of flavor, and 
the chipotle-tomato broth delights the senses.
For the meatballs
1 slice white bread
¼ cup milk
1 egg
1 garlic clove
1 pound lean ground beef
1 teaspoon beef bouillon
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ cup finely chopped white onion
½ cup finely chopped cilantro 
(or parsley)For the sauce
4 cups tomato puree
½ onion, roasted
2 garlic cloves, roasted
2 canned chipotles in adobo
2½ cups beef broth or water
1 teaspoon cooking oil
1 tablespoon beef bouillon
Salt (optional)
Freshly ground black pepper (optional)
Mayocoba Refried Beans (page 111), 
for serving
Cooked rice, for serving
To make the meatballs
1. In a blender, combine the bread, milk, egg, and garlic. Blend for 5 minutes, until 
smooth.
2. Transfer the blended mixture to a medium bowl. Add the beef, bouillon, cumin, 
black pepper, onion, and cilantro and mix well with your hands.
3. Using a teaspoon or small ice-cream scoop, make small meatballs  
(1.5 inches). Set them on a plate and cover with plastic. Refrigerate until ready to 
use.89 Main CoursesTo make the sauce
4. In a blender, combine the tomato puree, onion, garlic, chipotles, and broth 
and blend for 5 minutes, until thoroughly mixed.
5. In a pot, heat the oil over medium heat. Pour the sauce into the pot, season it 
with the bouillon, and simmer for 5 minutes. Taste and add salt and black pepper 
(if using). Add the meatballs to the sauce, one at a time, cover, and cook for 10 
minutes.
6. Serve with a side of refried beans and rice.
VARIATION
Meatballs are typically made with beef, but try using ground chicken or turkey or com -
bine the beef with pork. For economy, some cooks add chopped hardboiled eggs or 
rice to the beef. Add more or fewer chipotles according to your taste. Albóndigas are 
freezer friendly; prepare them in advance and store them in an airtight container.90 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPicadillo de Res
Beef Picadillo
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 35 minutes  |  Serves 4
Picadillo is a humble dish served in many homes all over Mexico. Each region has its 
own way of making it. Some add potatoes, peas, and carrots, whereas others include 
chayote, zucchini, and corn. Everyone uses ground beef or pork and all the ingredients 
are cut into small pieces, which is why the dish is called “picadillo.” 
1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 white onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, minced
1 pound ground beef
1 tablespoon beef bouillon or salt
1 serrano or jalapeño pepper, chopped
2 Roma tomatoes, diced
1 cup tomato puree½ cup beef broth or water
1½ cups frozen mix with peas and 
carrots
¼ cup freshly chopped cilantro
Cooked rice, for serving
Mayocoba Refried Beans (page 111), 
for serving
1. In a sauté pan, heat the oil over medium heat and fry the onion and garlic for 
5 minutes.
2. Add the beef and cook for 15 minutes, breaking it up with a wooden spatula. 
Season it with the bouillon and continue cooking.
3. Add the pepper, tomatoes, and tomato puree and cook for another 5 minutes. 
Add the broth and frozen vegetables, cover, and cook for 10 minutes.
4. Add the cilantro and serve with rice or refried beans.
TIP
Use this beef picadillo for tacos, empanadas, sopes, or tostadas.
Variation
Try ground chicken, turkey, pork, or vegetarian crumbles in place of the beef. The 
veggies can be replaced with potatoes or other options such as mushrooms and bell 
peppers.91 Main CoursesMilanesa de Res
Beef Milanesa
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Milanesas came from Europe. Bartolomeo Scappi created the first milanesa in the 16th 
century and served it to the pope. The dish was adopted by many and brought to Latin 
America and Mexico.
1 egg
¼ cup milk
Pinch salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper, plus pinch
4 thin beef steaks (see tip)1 cup panko bread crumbs
1 tablespoon beef bouillon
½ teaspoon garlic powder
1 cup cooking oil or peanut oil
1. In a large bowl, whisk the egg, milk, salt, and 1/2 teaspoon black pepper for  
1 to 2 minutes. Add the steaks and marinate for 5 minutes, making sure they 
are covered with the batter.
2. Pour the bread crumbs onto a plate and mix with the bouillon, garlic powder, and 
remaining pinch of black pepper. Coat each steak on both sides and set aside.
3. In a deep pan, heat the oil to over medium-high heat until hot, and fry each 
milanesa for 3 to 4 minutes per side, until golden brown. Use paper towels to 
remove excess oil and serve.
TIP
Make sure to buy tender beef cuts, such as top round. Ask the butcher to slice the 
steaks thin and tenderize them. Many Mexican food stores sell  Mexican-style meat 
cuts. Look for one in your area. Many supermarkets also offer butcher services. You 
can transform this dish into a torta de milanesa (a sandwich using a bolillo or baguette) 
or serve it over a bed of greens. These milanesas also pair well with Mexican Rice 
(page 108), black beans, a fresh salad, creamy mashed potatoes, or French fries.92 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGSalpicón de Res
Beef Salpicón
Origin: Yucatán, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Mexico City, and Chiapas
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 4 to 6
Special equipment: Instant Pot or pressure cooker
This recipe first appeared in 16th-century Spain. It was created to repurpose meat left -
overs. In Mexico, this cold dish is popular during the hot weather months. It uses skirt 
steak and a variety of raw vegetables, drizzled with a mustard vinaigrette. A pressure 
cooker is essential for preparing this dish.
For the meat
1 pound skirt steak
½ white onion
3 garlic cloves
2 bay leaves
2 whole allspice berries
3 whole black peppercorns or  
⅓ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper
1 tablespoon beef bouillon or salt
6 cups water
For the vinaigrette
1 tablespoon whole-grain mustardJuice of 1 lime
¼ cup apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 cup extra-virgin olive oil
For the salad
4 cups shredded romaine lettuce
2 cups diced Roma tomatoes
½ red onion, cut into thin rounds
4 radishes, cut into thin rounds
1 avocado, sliced
¼ cup cilantro leaves
To make the meat
1. Combine the steak, onion, garlic, bay leaves, allspice, peppercorns, and 
bouillon in a pressure cooker. Pour in the water. Seal the cooker and cook on 
high for 45 minutes. Allow the pressure to release naturally.
2. Remove the meat while it’s still warm. Using two forks, shred the meat, then 
transfer it to an airtight container and refrigerate. Reserve the beef broth for later 
use.93 Main CoursesTo make the vinaigrette
3. In a small bowl, combine the mustard, lime juice, vinegar, salt, black pepper, 
and oregano and whisk for 1 minute.
4. Incorporate the oil slowly, while whisking, to emulsify the vinaigrette.
To make the salad
5. In a large bowl, use two forks to combine the meat with ½ cup of 
vinaigrette. Add the lettuce and gently toss the salad.
6. Serve the meat and lettuce garnished with the tomatoes, onion, radishes, 
avocado, and cilantro and drizzled with more vinaigrette.
TIP
Salpicón is perfect for an informal gathering or outdoor activity. Pair the salpicón with 
tostadas or chips and serve it as an appetizer. Serve with queso fresco and a side of 
pickled carrots and jalapeño slices.94 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCarne Asada
Beef Asada
Origin: Nuevo León, Sonora, and Mexico  |  Prep time: 10 minutes,  
plus 45 minutes to marinate  |  Cook time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: charcoal grill
In North Mexico, Sundays are for parrilladas with the family, and carne asada is the star 
of the menu. It is a time when families socialize and create memories while enjoying 
juicy steaks. Most homes have a charcoal grill built into the backyard. The meat mari -
nates for hours and all the side dishes are prepared fresh while the meat cooks—a true 
tradition of good food and togetherness.
⅓ cup lime juice
½ cup blonde beer
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon ground cumin
3 tablespoons corn oil
3 garlic cloves, chopped
6 New York steaks, cut thin
12 scallions4 jalapeño peppers
2 limes, quartered
Ranchero Beans (page 112), for serving
Homemade Corn Tortillas (page 22), for 
serving
Grilled Guacamole (page 31), 
for serving
Pico de Gallo Salsa (page 26), 
for serving
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the lime juice, beer, salt, black pepper, 
and cumin. Whisk in the oil gradually and whisk for 5 minutes to emulsify. 
Incorporate the garlic and set aside.
2. Drench the meat in the large bowl of marinade, cover it with plastic wrap, and 
refrigerate for 30 to 45 minutes.
3. Preheat the charcoal grill to 400°F.
4. Remove the steaks from the marinade and grill for 3 minutes per side, until well 
seared and showing grill marks. Set aside to let rest for 2 minutes before slicing.
5. Grill the scallions and jalapeños for 10 minutes and place them in a small bowl 
with the limes.
6. Slice the steaks and serve with the scallion-jalapeño mixture, ranchero beans, 
warm tortillas, guacamole, and pico de gallo.95 Main CoursesLomo de Cerdo en Salsa de 
Ciruelas con Chipotle
Pork in Prune-Chipotle Sauce
Origin: Chiapas and Mexico  |  Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Cook time: 50 minutes  |  Serves 6
This simple to prepare but celebratory dish has been enjoyed as a Christmas staple for 
generations in many households. The sweetness and spiciness of the sauce is the per -
fect marriage with the pork. This dish pairs well with a salad or creamy spaghetti pasta.
10 prunes, pitted
1½ cups hot water
2 canned chipotles in adobo
2 garlic cloves, roasted 
1 teaspoon dried cumin1 teaspoon dried Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
1 teaspoon butter
1 pound pork loin
1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF.
2. Soak the prunes in the hot water for 10 minutes, or until plumped. Transfer them 
to a blender with 1 cup of the prune soaking water, the chipotles, garlic, cumin, 
oregano, black pepper, and bouillon. Blend until smooth.
3. Butter a rectangular baking pan and add the pork loin. Pour the sauce over top 
of the pork. Cover the pan with aluminum foil.
4. Bake the pork loin for 45 minutes. Remove the foil and broil the meat on low for 
5 to 7 minutes, or until it reaches an internal temperature of 150ºF.
5. Let the pork rest before thinly slicing and serving.
VARIATION
You can omit the chipotles or replace them with 2 guajillo chiles or 2 ancho chiles. 
This sauce also pairs well with turkey tenderloin and chicken breasts.96 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCerdo en Adobo
Pork Adobo
Origin: Puebla, Jalisco, Hidalgo, Tamaulipas, Oaxaca, Zacatecas, and Campeche
Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: blender, Instant Pot or pressure cooker
When looking for something comforting, I think about the flavors and smells coming 
out of my mom’s kitchen, and adobo is one of those dishes that take me home. Adobo 
is a dried pepper sauce made with guajillo and ancho chiles. Depending on the state, 
there are subtle differences in the chile mixes and spices. However, all Mexican adobos 
are exceptional.
4 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 ancho chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 cups hot water
1 white onion, roasted
2 small Roma tomatoes, roasted and 
peeled
3 garlic cloves, roasted
1 pound pork loin, cut into chunks
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper1 tablespoon corn oil
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon dried Mexican oregano
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
1 pound new potatoes, peeled and 
cooked (optional)
Cooked Mexican Rice (page 108), 
for serving
Frijoles de la olla, for serving
1. Soak the guajillo and ancho chiles in the hot water for 10 to 15 minutes, until 
softened. Reserve all the chile soaking water. Transfer the chiles, 1 cup of the 
soaking water, onion, tomatoes, and garlic to a blender. Blend for 3 to  
5 minutes, until the adobo sauce is smooth.
2. Season the pork with the salt and black pepper and set aside. Set the pressure 
cooker to the “Sauté” mode. Pour in the oil and sear the pork for 3 minutes. Add 
the blended adobo sauce, vinegar, cumin, oregano, and bouillon. Stir in an 
additional 1 cup of chile soaking water.
3. Seal the cooker and cook on high for 45 minutes. Perform a natural release and 
add the potatoes (if using). Set the pressure cooker to “Sauté” and simmer for 
5 to 7 minutes.
4. Serve the pork adobo with red Mexican rice (page 108) and frijoles de la olla.97 Main CoursesChicharrón de Cerdo  
en Salsa Verde
Pork Chicharrón in Green Sauce
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 25 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: blender
Chicharróns are pork cracklings that are typically enjoyed as snacks or in tacos. Fresh 
chicharróns are available every Sunday, but if they are not eaten the same day, they are 
repurposed by cooking them with a green tomatillo sauce. Tomatillos and peppers are 
part of the indigenous legacy, whereas we inherited pork from Spain. This dish is a 
true example of the mix of cultures, and this humble dish has been a staple of Mexican 
cuisine for many years.
1 (16-ounce) can cooked tomatillos
2 jalapeño peppers, roasted
2 garlic cloves, roasted
½ cup water
⅓ cup fresh cilantro leaves1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
Salt (optional)
1 pound chicharróns, cut into medium 
pieces
1. In a blender, combine the tomatillos, jalapeños, garlic, water, and cilantro. 
Blend until smooth.
2. In a soup pot, heat the oil over medium heat and cook the tomatillo sauce 
5 minutes. Season with the bouillon and simmer for 15 minutes. Taste and add 
salt (if using). Add the chicharróns, cook for 5 minutes, and serve.
TIP
Adding leftover carnitas to the dish makes it even tastier. Fresh tomatillos are 
 preferable, but canned are a convenient option without compromising the authentic 
flavor. For a spicier sauce, add 2 chiles de árbol. Serve this dish with black beans and 
 Homemade Corn Tortillas (page 22).98 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGTamales de Cerdo
Pork Tamales
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 1 hour  |  Cook time: 1 hour 50 minutes  |  Makes 20 tamales
Special equipment: blender, Instant Pot or pressure cooker, electric mixer, tamalera
Tamales are a must-have for Christmas, Three Kings Day, and Día de la Candelaria. 
Tamales come in different varieties, but my favorite is red pork tamales. These tamales 
showcase the mix of cultures using indigenous ingredients such as corn, chiles, and 
pork thanks to the Spanish legacy. Making tamales is labor intensive and a work of love, 
but it is so worth it, especially when enjoyed with a cup of Mexican hot chocolate.
For the guajillo sauce
8 guajillo chiles, seeded and stemmed
1 cup hot water
2 garlic cloves
1 teaspoon cooking oil
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
½ tablespoon chicken bouillon or salt
For the meat
1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 pound pork butt, cut into chunks
1 teaspoon ground cumin1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 cube chicken bouillon 
For the masa
3 cups masa harina 
1 teaspoon salt, plus 1 tablespoon
2½ cups warm water
1⅓ cups pork lard or vegetable 
shortening, at room temperature
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups chicken broth
20 corn husks, at least 4 inches wide, 
soaked and ready to use
To make the guajillo sauce
1. In a saucepan, soak the chiles in the hot water for 15 minutes, or until soft. 
Transfer the chiles, 1 cup of chile soaking water, and garlic to a blender. Blend 
for 5 minutes into a smooth paste. Strain the paste to get a velvety consistency.
2. In another saucepan, heat the oil over low heat and pour in the guajillo sauce. 
Whisk in the cumin, oregano, and bouillon. Cook for 10 minutes. Set aside to 
cool.99 Main CoursesTo cook the meat
3. In a pressure cooker set to the “Sauté” mode, heat the oil and fry the pork 
for 7 to 10 minutes, until seared.
4. Season with the cumin, oregano, and bouillon. Stir in 3 cups of the guajillo 
sauce.
5. Seal the lid and cook on high for 45 minutes. Perform a quick release and shred 
the pork. Set aside to cool.
To make the masa
6. Combine the masa harina and 1 teaspoon of salt in a medium bowl and 
use your hands to mix together. Add the warm water slowly to start 
hydrating the masa. Work the dough with your hands until it feels smooth 
and soft, like Play-Doh.
7. In an electric mixer, beat the lard with the baking powder for 1 to 2 minutes, until 
light and fluffy. Still beating, add the masa in three parts. Then, add the broth 
and the remaining 1 tablespoon of salt.
8. Test the consistency of the dough by dropping a dollop in a glass of cold water. 
If the dough floats, the masa is ready.
9. Make one tamale at a time. Take a few corn husks at a time; shake off the water. 
Place the corn husk in the palm of your hand with the wide side closest to 
you. Spread 3 tablespoons of masa all over the bottom half of the husk. Add 2 
tablespoons of pork filling lengthwise down the center of the tamale. Fold one 
side first, then the other side. Fold the empty top section down.
10.     Fill the bottom of the tamalera with water and insert the steamer basket. 
Arrange the tamales, open-side up, on the steamer basket inside the tamalera. 
Cover the tamales with a cloth or more corn husks to keep them moist during 
the cooking process. Cook the tamales for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Check the 
tamalera and add more hot water to the steamer if necessary.100 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGEnchiladas Mineras
Miner Enchiladas
Origin: Guanajuato  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
The name of this dish comes from the fact that Guanajuato became the world’s leading 
silver mine in the 18th century. Miners would go home after a long day of work to enjoy 
these homemade, hearty enchiladas. In this version, the tortillas are dipped in the gua -
jillo sauce and then fried.
For the guajillo sauce
8 guajillos chiles, seeded and stemmed
2 cups hot water
2 garlic cloves
1 teaspoon cooking oil
1 teaspoon ground cumin
½ teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 tablespoon chicken bouillonFor the enchiladas
2 tablespoons cooking oil, plus  
12 teaspoons, for frying
3 boiled potatoes, peeled and diced
4 cooked carrots, peeled and diced
12 corn tortillas
1 cup crumbled Ranchero queso fresco
2 cups shredded romaine lettuce
4 pickled jalapeño peppers
To make the guajillo sauce
1. In a small bowl, soak the chiles in the hot water for 10 minutes, or until soft. 
Transfer the chiles, 1½ cups of chile soaking water, and the garlic to a blender. 
Blend on high into a paste.
2. In a saucepan, heat the oil over low heat. Pour in the guajillo sauce and cook for 
3 minutes. Add the cumin, oregano, and bouillon. Stir and simmer for 5 minutes. 
Set aside.
To make the enchiladas
3. In a skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium heat and sauté the 
potatoes and carrots for 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a medium bowl and set 
aside.
4. In the same skillet, heat 1 teaspoon of oil. Dip the corn tortillas, one at a time, into 
the guajillo sauce, then fry in the skillet for 1 minute on each side. Repeat with the 
remaining tortillas and oil.101 Main Courses5. Place the tortillas on a serving plate and top them with some of the cheese. Roll 
each tortilla or close them into half-moons.
6. Top the enchiladas with the potatoes and carrots, lettuce, and more cheese. 
Serve with the pickled jalapeños.
TIP
The potatoes, carrots, and guajillo sauce can be cooked ahead of time. Use yellow 
corn tortillas, which tend to be stronger than white. 
Variation
In Mexico City, enchiladas have requesón (a Mexican ricotta cheese mixed with 
chopped epazote) and are served with ribbons of Mexican crema and avocado slices 
rather than cooked vegetables.102 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGChiles Rellenos
Stuffed Poblano Peppers
Origin: Puebla  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: blender
I have never met anyone who doesn’t enjoy a good chile relleno. These stuffed poblano 
peppers were part of my family’s traditional menu for Lent or celebratory meals. Many 
happy memories come to my mind with this recipe, which was created by the nuns of 
the Santa Mónica Convent in Puebla, making it an icon of Mexican cuisine.
For the tomato sauce
8 Roma tomatoes, steamed, peeled, 
and seeded
¼ cup water
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon or salt
1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon cooking oil
½ onion, cut into roundsFor the stuffed peppers
4 large poblano peppers, roasted, 
peeled, seeded, and deveined
2½ cups shredded Chihuahua cheese, 
or Monterey Jack
1 cup wheat flour
4 large eggs, separated
1 cup frying oil
Mexican Rice (page 108), for serving
To make the tomato sauce
1. In a blender, combine the tomatoes, water, bouillon, sugar, and black pepper. 
Blend on high for 3 minutes, until pureed.
2. In a skillet, heat the oil over medium heat and fry the onion for 2 to 3 minutes, 
until translucent.
3. Pour the tomato puree into the skillet and simmer for another 10 minutes. 
Keep warm.
To make the stuffed peppers
4. Stuff the peppers with the cheese and roll them in the flour. Secure the 
stuffed and coated peppers with wooden toothpicks. Set on a plate and set 
aside.
5. In a small bowl, whip the egg whites for 5 minutes, until peaks form. Add the 
yolks, one at a time, and continue whipping until soft, yellow, and fluffy.103 Main Courses6. In a skillet, heat the oil to 175ºF. Test the temperature by adding a dollop of 
batter. If it fries fast, the oil is ready to use.
7. Working one pepper at a time, dip a pepper in the batter and drop it into the 
hot oil. Fry on both sides for 3 to 5 minutes, until golden brown. Transfer the 
fried pepper to a paper towel–lined plate to remove excess oil. Repeat with the 
remaining stuffed peppers.
8. Serve the stuffed peppers with warm tomato sauce and a side of  
Mexican rice.
TIP
Prepare the tomato sauce and prep the peppers the night before. The batter might 
require more than 4 eggs, depending on their size. Replace the  shredded cheese with 
refried beans, veggies, ground beef, or any other combination of your choice. Roast -
ing the poblanos can be intimidating, but do not fret. See page 18 for instructions.104 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGChorizo de Cerdo Casero
Homemade Pork Chorizo
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 2 hours 45 minutes  |  Makes 3 rolls
Special equipment: blender, food processor, cheesecloth
Mexican chorizo differs from the classic Spanish chorizo as it is made with raw pork, 
whereas the Spanish version is usually aged and smoked. Mexican chorizo first ap -
peared 400 years ago in Toluca, where nowadays there are many chorizo styles such as 
the famous chorizo verde and the longaniza. Making your own chorizo is fun and easy.
For the sauce
6 guajillo chiles, stemmed and seeded
2 pasilla chiles, stemmed and seeded
4 cascabel chiles, stemmed and 
seeded
2 cups hot water
3 garlic cloves, roasted
½ white onion, roasted
1 teaspoon Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon dried marjoram
½ teaspoon dried thyme1 tablespoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 tablespoons smoked paprika
1 tablespoon hickory-smoked salt
½ cup apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon
For the chorizo
2 pounds ground pork
1 cup chopped smoked bacon
To make the sauce
1. In a saucepan, soak the guajillo, pasilla, and cascabel chiles in the hot water 
for 15 minutes, until softened. Transfer the chiles, ½ cup of the chile soaking 
water, garlic, onion, oregano, marjoram, thyme, cumin, cloves, pepper, paprika, 
hickory-smoked salt, vinegar, and bouillon to a blender. Blend for 5 to 7 
minutes into a paste. Transfer the paste to an airtight container and refrigerate.
To make the chorizo
2. Add the ground pork and bacon to a food processor and process until 
completely combined. You may have to do this twice for a finer finish.
3. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl and combine it with the sauce. Use food-
grade gloves and mix with your hands for 10 to 15 minutes, until fully integrated.105 Main Courses4. Wrap the chorizo in cheesecloth and strain to remove any excess water. 
Refrigerate the chorizo in the colander for 1 to 2 hours. The mixture should be 
dry enough before making the chorizo rolls.
5. Cut three sheets of plastic wrap. Lay out one sheet and add one-third of the 
chorizo. Roll tightly and close on both sides. Repeat twice more.
6. Place the chorizo rolls in a sealed container and store in the freezer until ready 
to enjoy. 
TIP
To save time, ask the butcher to mix the bacon with the ground pork. Cook the chorizo 
with pork lard and use it for making tacos, Mexican Chorizo with Eggs (page 41), sopes, 
and much more.106
112 FRIJOLES CHARROS107Sides and Salads
Arroz Rojo a la Mexicana Mexican Rice  108
Arroz Verde de Chile Poblano Green Poblano Rice  110
Frijoles Mayos Refritos Mayocoba Refried Beans  111
Frijoles Charros Ranchero Beans  112
Frijoles Puercos Dirty Beans  113
Ensalada Mexicana de Pollo Mexican Chicken Salad  114
Ensalada de Chayote Chayote Salad  115
Ensalada de Nopalitos Cactus Salad  116
Ensalada de Aguacate Avocado Salad  117
Ensalada de Navidad Christmas Salad  1187108 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGArroz Rojo a la Mexicana
Mexican Rice
Origin: Mexico and Guerrero  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 40 minutes  |  Serves 6
The Spaniards brought rice to America. In Mexico, rice became an essential part of 
the culinary culture, as it is considered a symbol of fertility. Jojutla de Juárez is the 
home for Morelos rice, which doesn’t release starch and remains firm when cooked. 
All  Mexican households have consumed this rice since the late 1800s. Rice in Mexico 
can be white, red, or green, but red Mexican rice is a staple served with many favorite 
dishes such as mole and enchiladas.
2 cups long-grain rice
2 tablespoons cooking oil
2 whole serrano peppers
2 garlic cloves
1 cup Mexican-style tomato sauce
1 cube chicken bouillon 1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2½ cups warm water
1 bunch fresh cilantro
1 cup frozen peas and carrots
1. Rinse the rice with cold water and set aside to dry in a colander. Mexican 
cooks leave it near a sunny window for about 30 minutes.
2. In a medium skillet or rice pot, heat the oil over medium heat and fry the rice for 
7 minutes, until toasty. Reduce the heat to low.
3. Add the peppers and garlic and sauté for 2 minutes. Add the tomato sauce, 
bouillon, salt, and pepper and stir gently. Add the water and cilantro and cook, 
covered, for 15 to 20 minutes. Do not be tempted to stir. If the rice needs more 
water, add a few drops, but not too much or else the rice will be too soft.
4. Add the carrots and peas and replace the lid. Cook for 7 to 10 minutes. Turn off 
the heat and leave the rice covered until ready to serve.
TIP
Rinsing the rice removes the starch and prevents it from sticking together and be -
coming mushy when cooked, so do not skip this step. Frying the rice is the secret 
for obtaining the authentic flavor. Frying also prevents the rice from sticking together. 
Long-grain rice is closer to Morelos rice, which is not sold in the United States. For 
every cup of rice, you will need 2 cups of liquid. Make sure the water is warm for even 
cooking.109 Sides and SaladsMexican Indigenous Vegetables 
and Fruits
The pre-Hispanic diet was mainly vegetarian. The Maya grew maize, 
beans, and squash in milpas, small pieces of land. In the great Tenoch -
titlan, Mexicans grew their crops on man-made islands known as 
chinampas in Lake Texcoco. Aside from beans, chayote squash, chiles, 
and maize, Mesoamerican indigenous groups grew cacao, amaranth, 
chia, peanuts, vanilla, sweet potato, nopales and cactus fruits, pitaya, 
agave, avocados, tomatoes, papaya, jícama, nance, zapote fruit vari -
eties, tomatoes, mango Ataulfo, bananas, cherimoya, tomatillos, and 
pineapple.
Olmec, Teotihuacan, Zapotec, Huastec, Mixtec, Otomi, Totonac, 
Mazahua, and Aztec cooking techniques are present in dishes we eat 
today. Good examples are crafting hot sauces, roasting over direct 
flame, steaming tamales, and the boiling method for vegetables and 
cacti. Hot and cold drinks prepared with cacao were mostly enjoyed by 
the upper classes. Nowadays, the inclusion of insects as a good source 
of protein is thanks to these indigenous groups, who introduced us to 
chapulines, jumiles, chinicuiles, and escamoles. And let us not forget 
the Aztecs’ uses of corn to make pozole, atoles, and champurrados, 
and the Mayas’ discovery of nixtamalization, still used to process corn.110 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGArroz Verde  
de Chile Poblano
Green Poblano Rice
Origin: Puebla  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: food processor, rice pot
Green rice is prepared by families that live in Central Mexico. This kind of rice is not 
commonly found on restaurant menus. Sometimes, it is served with crumbled cheese 
and Mexican crema; it is also made white and with roasted poblano peppers and corn 
kernels—a tasty side for grilled chicken or steak.
1 cup long-grain rice
2 large poblano peppers, seeded, 
stemmed, and deveined
¼ white onion
2 garlic cloves
½ cup cilantro leaves2 cups water, at room temperature, 
divided
1 tablespoon cooking oil
1 tablespoon chicken bouillon or sea 
salt
1 cup frozen or fresh corn kernels
1. Rinse the rice with cold water (do not soak) and dry in a colander for about 
30 minutes.
2. In a food processor, combine the peppers, onion, garlic, cilantro, and ½ cup of 
water. Process to a green puree.
3. In a rice pot, heat the oil over high heat and fry the rice for 3 minutes, until well 
coated. Do not brown.
4. Reduce the heat to medium and stir in the green puree and bouillon. Cook for 
2 to 3 minutes without stirring. Add the remaining 1½ cups of water. Cover and 
cook for 15 minutes.
5. Add the corn. Replace the lid and cook for another 5 minutes. If the rice needs 
more water, add a few drops but not too much or else the rice will be too 
soft. Turn off the heat and leave the rice covered until ready to serve.
VARIATION
Preparing white rice with roasted poblano pepper strips and corn kernels uses the 
same method as this recipe but omits the chicken bouillon. The poblanos must be 
roasted, peeled, seeded, deveined, julienned, and added with the corn in step 5. 
Both versions are very tasty and pair well with crumbled Ranchero queso fresco and 
Mexican crema.111 Sides and SaladsFrijoles Mayos Refritos
Mayocoba Refried Beans
Origin: Mexico  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour  |  Serves 8
Special equipment: Instant Pot
1 pound dry Mayocoba beans
6 cups water
2 tablespoons salt
1 large garlic clove½ white onion
2 bay leaves
1 whole chile de árbol (optional)
1 tablespoon pork lard
1. In an Instant Pot, combine the beans, water, salt, garlic, onion, bay leaves, and 
chile de árbol (if using). Seal the lid and cook on high for 45 minutes. Allow the 
pressure to release naturally. Using a slotted spoon, remove 2 cups of beans.
2. In a skillet, melt the lard over medium heat. Add the beans and mash them into a 
puree.
3. Reduce the heat to low and allow the beans to become a paste, stirring 
continuously to avoid the beans sticking to the skillet.
4. Serve in a medium bowl.
TIP
Home cooks in Mexico soak the dry beans the night before, because they use a clay 
pot instead of a pressure cooker and the soaking reduces the cooking time. Soaking 
is not necessary when using a pressure cooker. This technique works for any kind of 
dry bean. Try adding herbs such as epazote, cumin, oregano, marjoram, etc. When 
the refried beans are ready, you can add Chihuahua-style cheese for making cheesy 
beans or blend the beans with enough bean broth to make soup. Cotija cheese and 
corn chips make a great garnish for these refried beans.112 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGFrijoles Charros
Ranchero Beans
Origin: Coahuila and Tamaulipas  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Serves 4  |  Special equipment: cast-iron soup pot
This dish gets its name from the need to feed the “charros” (Mexican cowboys) with 
easy, hearty meals. Cowboys used to work long hours taking care of the cattle, and they 
needed an inexpensive hot meal to cook outdoors; this is how the brothy bean dish 
became so popular in North Mexico, with a few variants depending on the state.
1 teaspoon pork lard or cooking oil
4 bacon strips, cut into small pieces
⅓ cup smoked ham, cubed (or 2 small 
diced hot dogs or chorizo)
½ cup diced white onion
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
2 serrano peppers, finely chopped1 cup diced beefsteak tomato
1 teaspoon chicken bouillon 
4 cups canned pinto beans
1 cup water
1 cup blonde beer
Sea salt (optional)
⅓ cup freshly chopped cilantro
1. In a cast-iron soup pot, heat the lard over high heat and fry the bacon until 
golden brown. Remove some of the fat, if desired. Reduce the heat to medium, 
add the ham, and fry for 5 to 7 minutes.
2. Stir in the onion, cumin, garlic, and peppers and sauté for another  
5 minutes. Add the tomatoes and bouillon and simmer until the tomatoes are 
soft.
3. Add the beans, water, and beer. Stir, cover, reduce the heat to low, and cook for 
15 minutes. Taste and add salt (if using). Serve the beans hot and garnished with 
the cilantro.
TIP
The longer the beans simmer, the better the flavor. Try Mayocoba beans instead of 
pinto. Pair these beans with carne asada or garnish them with pork rinds (cueritos) and 
eat them as a main dish with flour tortillas.113 Sides and SaladsFrijoles Puercos
Dirty Beans
Origin: Sinaloa, Colima, Guanajuato, Michoacán, and Nayarit  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  
Cook time: 40 minutes  |  Serves 4  |  Special equipment: Mexican clay  
pot or cast-iron soup pot, blender
Dirty beans are a typical party appetizer. I first tried them in Acaponeta, Nayarit, at a 
friend’s home. I was so intrigued by this dish that her mother taught me how to cook 
it and I became a big frijoles puercos fan. However, they are a tradition in other states, 
too, specifically Sinaloa, where they pride themselves on making the best dirty beans. 
Each region and household has their secrets on how to prepare this recipe. No matter 
the version, frijoles puercos are fantastic.
2 tablespoons pork lard
½ cup Homemade Pork Chorizo  
(page 104)
2 cups cooked Mayocoba Refried 
Beans (page 111) or canned
¼ cup bean broth water
1 teaspoon chipotle sauce (see steps 
1 and 3 of Chicken in Creamy Chipotle 
Sauce, page 80), or 1 chipotle in adobo, 
chopped2 tablespoons chopped pickled 
jalapeño peppers
¾ cup shredded Chihuahua cheese (or 
Monterey Jack)
Salt (optional)
Corn chips, for serving
1. In a Mexican clay pot or a cast-iron soup pot, melt the lard over high heat. Add 
the chorizo and fry for 10 minutes, until separated and browned.
2. In a blender, combine the beans, bean broth water, and chipotle sauce. Blend 
until smooth.
3. Stir the blended beans into the chorizo. Reduce the heat to medium and keep 
stirring to keep the beans from sticking. The beans will start bubbling and 
thickening after 20 minutes. Add the jalapeños and cheese. Stir again and cook 
for another 5 minutes.
4. When the cheese has melted and the mixture has the texture of a cheesy dip, 
taste and add salt (if using). Remove the beans from the heat and serve with corn 
chips.114 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGEnsalada Mexicana  
de Pollo
Mexican Chicken Salad
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less  |  Prep time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 6
This chicken salad is served by moms and grandmothers all over Mexico. It is a sta -
ple for parties and served during the summer as a main dish. This salad has the same 
ingredients as Russian potato salad, but shredded chicken is added for a more nutri -
tious dish. Mexican chicken salad is often paired with saltines and served over a bed of 
lettuce with a pickled jalapeño.
½ cup mayonnaise
½ cup sour cream
Juice of ½ lime
1 teaspoon yellow mustard
1 teaspoon sea salt
½ teaspoon freshly ground black 
pepper2 cups shredded chicken (white meat)
⅓ cup finely chopped celery
1 cup cooked and diced carrots
1 cup cooked peas
1 cup cooked and diced potatoes
¼ cup freshly chopped parsley
1. In a large bowl, whisk together the mayonnaise, sour cream, lime juice, 
mustard, salt, and pepper until creamy.
2. Add the chicken and celery and mix with a spatula. Add the carrots and peas 
and mix gently. Then, fold in the potatoes.
3. Serve in a large bowl, family style. Or, for a nicer presentation, use a small bowl 
or ramekin, add some salad, and press it down with a spoon. Place a lettuce leaf 
or a bed of shredded lettuce on top, turn the bowl upside-down, and unmold the 
salad on top of the lettuce. Garnish with the parsley and serve.
TIP
The vegetables can be frozen, but they’ll need to be cooked and cooled before use. 
The chicken can be leftovers from the previous day, a rotisserie chicken from the 
store, or canned white meat. 115 Sides and SaladsEnsalada de Chayote
Chayote Salad
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 10 minutes  
Cook time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 4
In Mexican home cooking, adding cooked vegetables to salads is widespread, especially 
if those vegetables are in season. Chayote is a close family member to the cucumber, 
so they can be eaten raw. Depending on the area, chayotes are also known as mirliton 
squash. This veggie tastes like a sweet zucchini with cucumber notes.
3 large chayotes
½ cup olive oil
¼ cup white vinegar
Juice of ½ lime1 teaspoon dried Mexican oregano
1 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ red onion, thinly sliced
1. In a deep soup pot, cover the chayotes with water. Bring to a boil and cook for 
15 to 20 minutes. The texture has to be firm, not mushy. When the chayotes are 
cooked, drop them into a bowl of ice water and leave them for 10 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk together the oil, vinegar, lime juice, oregano, 
salt, and pepper until emulsified. Add the onion and let it marinate for 10 minutes.
3. Peel the chayotes, then cut them in half and then again lengthwise. Inside the 
chayote, there is a delicious seed. Add it to the salad. Place the chayote slices 
on a serving plate.
4. Spoon some of the dressing with onions on top of the chayotes. Serve with the 
remaining dressing on the side.
TIP
Chayotes can be eaten raw, peeled and spiralized or shredded, and drizzled with 
vinaigrette.116 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGEnsalada de Nopalitos
Cactus Salad
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 20 minutes  |  Serves 6
In Mexican cuisine, cactus appears in many dishes, such as nopales salad, grilled cactus 
with cheese and salsa, egg and pork dishes, smoothies, and even nutritional supple -
ments. Cooked cactus is meaty with a pleasantly sour flavor. There are many varieties of 
nopales, all indigenous to Mexico. This cactus salad is simple to prepare and served in 
many homes during Lent.
4 cups cactus nopales, cut into strips  
as needed
1 teaspoon sea salt, plus pinch
Juice of 3 limes
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
½ cup finely chopped red onion1 cup diced tomatoes
1 jalapeño pepper, finely chopped 
(optional)
⅓ cup cilantro leaves
1 avocado, sliced
3 tablespoons cotija cheese
1. In a deep pot over medium heat, cover the nopal strips with water, add a pinch 
of salt, and cook for 20 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, in a small bowl, whisk together the lime juice, oil, the remaining 
1 teaspoon of salt, and the black pepper. Set the dressing aside.
3. When the nopales are tender and meaty to the bite, remove them from the pot, 
rinse them with running water, then strain to remove any slime. If the cactus is still 
slimy, rinse and strain again.
4. Place the cooked nopales in a medium bowl and add the onion, tomatoes, and 
jalapeño (if using). Pour the dressing over and mix.
5. Cover and refrigerate the salad for at least 15 minutes. When ready to serve, 
transfer the salad to a large bowl and mix in the cilantro. Garnish with the 
avocado and cheese.
TIP
Adding five tomatillo skins (not the husks) or a clean copper coin to the bottom of the 
pot helps reduce the cactus slime.117 Sides and SaladsEnsalada de Aguacate
Avocado Salad
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegan  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Serves 4
Avocado salad is such a simple dish to make, which is why many home cooks serve it 
with a variety of meals. This salad requires a firm Hass avocado and a sharp knife. Most 
of the avocados consumed in the United States come from Michoacán, but the crop is 
also grown in California and Chile.
2 large Hass avocados
Juice of 1 lime
1 tablespoon olive oilSalt
Freshly ground black pepper
Halve the avocados lengthwise, remove the pits and the skins, and slice. Lay 
the slices on a plate. Drizzle the slices with the lime juice and oil. Season with 
salt and pepper.
TIP
Firm avocados have a deep, dark green color and, when pressed, feel firm but slightly 
tender. Another way to check the ripeness is by removing the stem. If the flesh looks 
green, the avocado is ready to use. If the color is brown, the avocado has passed its 
prime. Try this salad with tomatoes, sliced onions, grapefruit, and orange slices.118 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGEnsalada de Navidad
Christmas Salad
Origin: Mexico  |  30 Minutes or Less, Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 6
Christmastime in Mexico is a special time of the year. Several dishes are served only 
for the holiday, such as this colorful Christmas salad crafted with bright and flavorful 
seasonal fruits and veggies. Each family has their own twist for preparing this recipe, 
but all are fresh options that have become a deeply rooted tradition in many regions 
within Mexico.
¼ cup orange juice
¼ cup beet juice (or pomegranate juice)
Juice of 1 lime
1 tablespoon honey
6 to 8 romaine lettuce leaves
1 cup diced jícama
1 cup orange slices
½ cup pineapple chunks½ cup diced Golden Delicious apple
½ cup beets, cooked and diced (or 
canned)
½ cup pomegranate seeds
¼ cup toasted peanuts (or honey-
roasted)
2 tablespoons dried coconut shavings
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the orange juice, beet juice, lime juice, and 
honey. Refrigerate until ready to use.
2. On a large serving plate, lay the lettuce leaves in the shape of a flower. Add the 
jícama, spreading it evenly. Do the same with the orange slices, pineapple, and 
apple. Incorporate the beets and sprinkle with the pomegranate seeds, peanuts, 
and coconut.
3. Serve family style, with the dressing on the side.
TIP
This colorful salad requires precise cutting of the veggies and fruits for the best 
presentation. Use any other seasonal fruits, such as guavas, papaya, mandarins, or 
plantains. Instead of peanuts, use pecans, almonds, sesame seeds, or pine nuts. If 
using raw beets, cook them unpeeled in a pressure cooker for 30 minutes. Reserve 
the cooking water and use it instead of the beet juice for the dressing.120
126 CHURROS DE CANELA121Desserts and Drinks
Flan Clásico de Vainilla con Caramelo
Classic Vanilla Flan with Caramel  122
Pastel de Tres Leches Three Milk Cake  124
Churros de Canela Cinnamon Churros  126
Atole de Calabaza Pumpkin Atole  127
Capirotada Mexican Bread Pudding  128
Arroz con Leche Mexican Rice Pudding  130
Café de Olla con Canela  
Hot Pot Coffee with Cinnamon  131
Agua de Horchata Horchata  132
Agua de Jamaica Hibiscus Iced Tea  133
Ponche de Frutas para la Navidad
Christmas Fruit Punch  1348122 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGFlan Clásico de Vainilla 
con Caramelo
Classic Vanilla Flan with Caramel
Origin: Puebla  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour 15 minutes
Serves 8 to 10  |  Special equipment: flanera, blender
Flans or custards have been very popular in Europe since medieval times, and they 
were brought to Mexico by nuns. This particular flan recipe is my mom’s. We cooked 
this dessert together many years back, and I learned how to make it with her guidance. 
See the tip for other cooking techniques. Enjoy this recipe as-is or with whipped cream 
and seasonal fruit.
For the caramel
6 tablespoons water, at room 
temperature
2/3 cup refined sugarFor the flan
4 eggs
½ cup sugar
1 (14-oz) can condensed milk
1 (12-oz) can evaporated milk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
To make the caramel
1. In a flan pan (flanera), melt the sugar in the water over medium heat, until it 
becomes caramel, turning to cover the sides and bottom of the pan. Remove 
the flanera from the heat and let it cool. The caramel will become hard and 
could crack, but that is okay.
To make the flan
2. In a blender, combine the eggs, sugar, condensed milk, evaporated milk, 
and vanilla. Blend for 5 to 7 minutes, until the mixture is soft and yellow. 
Pour the mixture into the pan lined with the caramel.
3. Use a double boiler or fill a saucepan with enough water to create a water bath. 
Set the flanera on top and cover with the lid. Cook over low heat for 45 minutes 
to 1 hour, until firm. Set aside to cool. 123 Desserts and Drinks4. When cool, refrigerate the flan for at least 12 hours before serving. To serve, 
unmold the flan onto a serving plate and enjoy.
TIP
The flan can be cooked in a pressure cooker, on the stove using a double boiler, or in 
the oven using a water bath. A classic flanera is 8-by-3 inches with a lid appropriate 
for a 6-quart pressure cooker. A double boiler can be used on the stovetop, or you 
can use an 8-by-3-inch round cake pan covered with aluminum foil. Use a 12-by-3-inch 
cake pan to create a water bath for baking the flan in the oven. All pans are available 
on Amazon and should have a minimum 4-cup capacity. When releasing the flan, if the 
caramel is hard, it didn’t reach the proper temperature; don’t consider this a failure, 
just make more caramel for serving.
Variation
Use this recipe and add the extract of your choice: cinnamon, hazelnut, almond, rose, 
lavender. For coconut flan, use coconut extract and replace the dairy with canned 
coconut milk (Thai-style works best). For cheese flan, add 1 (8-ounce) bar of cream 
cheese or Neufchâtel.124 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPastel de Tres Leches
Three Milk Cake
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes
Serves 10 to 12
Everyone loves this cake and every household in Mexico has a different way of making 
it. The commonality is the love poured into crafting the dessert. This recipe is from 
my mom’s recipe box. I still have all her handwritten recipes, and this one is close to 
my heart. I cannot count how many times my mom baked this cake for birthdays and 
special celebrations. I recall my first communion fondly, as this cake was served at the 
celebration luncheon.
For the cake
Butter, for greasing 
10 eggs, separated
1 cup refined sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
For the sauce
1 (14-ounce) can condensed milk
1 (12-ounce) can evaporated milk
1 cup heavy (whipping) cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 ounce brandy (or 1 teaspoon rum 
extract for nonalcoholic version)For the cream
1½ cups heavy (whipping) cream,  
very cold
½ cup confectioners’ sugar, sifted
½ teaspoon powdered vanilla extract 
or white liquid vanilla extract
1 teaspoon cornstarch or  
powdered milk
For the decoration
6 to 8 strawberries, halved
1 mango, sliced or cut into small balls
1 to 2 kiwifruit, peeled and sliced
2 mint sprigs
To make the cake
1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF. Butter a 13-by-9-inch glass baking dish.
2. In a large bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer, whip the egg whites for 8 minutes 
until fluffy. Add the sugar, a little bit at a time, and continue whipping until stiff 
peaks form. Set aside.
3. In a separate large bowl, whip the egg yolks until light yellow. Add the vanilla and 
whip for another 3 minutes. Gently fold in the whipped whites with a spatula.125 Desserts and Drinks4. Add the flour, a little bit at a time, folding it in with slow circular movements to 
preserve the airiness of the batter. Pour the batter into the prepared pan and 
smooth the top with the spatula.
5. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, until golden brown. Avoid opening the oven while 
the cake is baking, as it could deflate. Insert a wood toothpick, and if it comes 
out clean, the cake is ready. Set aside to cool completely.
To make the sauce
6. In a medium bowl, combine the condensed milk, evaporated milk, cream, 
vanilla, and brandy and whisk until combined. Refrigerate the sauce until 
ready to use.
7. When the cake is cool, use a fork to poke holes all over the top. Pour the sauce 
evenly over the cake. Refrigerate the cake, covered, for at least  
1 hour 30 minutes and up to overnight. The longer, the better.
To make the cream
8. Put the cream in the freezer for 15 minutes. Doing this will allow the cream 
to whip quickly.
9. Pour the very cold cream into the bowl of a standing mixer and whip on high 
until it doubles. Add the confectioners’ sugar slowly, then incorporate the vanilla 
and cornstarch. Continue beating for another 2 minutes. Do not overwhip, as 
the cream can turn into butter. Keep the whipped cream refrigerated until ready 
to use.
10.    Fill a piping bag with the whipped cream and keep it cold using a bowl with ice 
while doing the piping work. Or use a spatula to cover the cake with the cream. 
To make the decoration
11.    Decorate the cake with the strawberries, mango, kiwifruit, and mint. Keep 
the cake refrigerated until ready to serve.126 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGChurros de Canela
Cinnamon Churros
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes
Serves 10 to 12  |  Special equipment: piping bag with star tip
Churros originated in Catalunya, Spain, and were brought to Mexico during the 
colonization. Some say churros began in China as a breakfast item and were brought 
to Spain by the Portuguese. Churros are made with a simple wheat dough, fried and 
sprinkled with cinnamon and sugar. They’re pretty popular during the winter served 
with hot chocolate as an evening snack.
½ cup whole milk
½ cup water
1 tablespoon sugar, plus 1 cup
¼ teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter1 cup flour, sifted
2 eggs, beaten
3 cups canola or corn oil (not peanut)
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1. In a soup pot over medium heat, combine the milk, water, 1 tablespoon of 
sugar, and salt and whisk for 5 to 7 minutes. Add the butter and continue 
whisking until melted.
2. Turn off the heat and add the flour, a little bit at a time, whisking vigorously until 
integrated. Add the eggs and whisk again for about 15 minutes, until the dough 
turns soft and silky. Transfer the dough to a piping bag with a star tip. Set aside.
3. In a large skillet, heat the oil to between 350ºF and 360ºF. (If not using a 
thermometer, drop some dough in the oil; if it starts bubbling and browning 
rapidly, the oil is ready.)
4. You can make straight lines of dough, rounds, or twists. All are acceptable for 
churros. Fry the churros for 3 to 5 minutes, until golden brown. Use tongs to 
transfer them to a paper towel–covered plate to remove excess oil.
5. On another plate, mix together the cinnamon and remaining 1 cup of sugar. While 
the churros are still warm, dredge them in the cinnamon-sugar mixture and serve.127 Desserts and DrinksAtole de Calabaza
Pumpkin Atole
Origin: Hidalgo and Chiapas  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 10 minutes  
Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 8
Atole, or atolli, is a traditional dish from pre-Hispanic times. It was made with maize, 
water, and fruit and served either hot or cold. With the Spaniards’ arrival, dairy was 
added to the diet, and milk replaced the water in the dish. There are different types of 
atole. The chocolate version is called champurrado and is made with piloncillo, Mexi -
can chocolate, and masa. A savory version called chileatole is made with corn, epazote, 
and poblano peppers. Pumpkin atole is served during the fall, and the type of pumpkin 
used is calabaza de Castilla.
8 cups whole milk
1 (8-ounce) piloncillo cone
1 cinnamon stick
1 teaspoon nutmeg (optional)1 (8-ounce) can pumpkin puree
2 tablespoons cornstarch, diluted in 
½ cup water
3 tablespoons roasted pepitas
1. In a saucepan over medium heat, combine the milk, piloncillo, cinnamon, and 
nutmeg (if using). Cook, continually stirring, for about 15 minutes, or until the 
piloncillo has dissolved. 
2. Whisk in the pumpkin puree. Cook for another 5 to 7 minutes, then add the 
cornstarch slurry.
3. Keep stirring for another 7 minutes, or until the atole becomes thick. Serve hot, 
garnished with the pepitas.
VARIATION
Swap the pumpkin for sweet potato, apple puree, strawberry, or guava preserves. If 
using guava, omit the nutmeg, as it doesn’t pair well.128 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGCapirotada
Mexican Bread Pudding
Origin: Sonora, Sinaloa, Michoacán, Jalisco, Durango, Guanajuato, San Luis Potosí,  
Zacatecas, Tamaulipas, and Nuevo León  |  Vegetarian
Prep time: 30 minutes  |  Cook time: 1 hour 25 minutes  |  Serves 10 to 12
Capirotada is a dessert typically served during Lent as a way to use leftover bread. 
There are many versions, but this one is based on my great-grandmother’s recipe. She 
was from Sonora. I have fond memories of her preparing this bread pudding. She used 
a big clay pot, in which she fried the bread and layered it like a lasagna. She would use 
candied “biznaga,” prunes, plantains, and Chihuahua-style cheese, as that state was my 
family’s home base.
3 tablespoons butter, plus more for 
greasing 
2 bolillos, sliced (or baguette cut into  
8 slices)
2 (8- to 9-ounce) piloncillo cones  
(or 2 cups dark sugar mixed with  
4 tablespoons molasses)
4 cups water
1 cinnamon stick1 star anise
2 cloves
¼ cup raisins (optional)
¼ cup roasted peanuts or almonds
¼ cup pine nuts or pecans
¼ cup coconut shavings
2 cups grated cotija cheese
Milk, for serving
1. Preheat the oven to 375ºF. Grease a square glass baking pan with butter and 
set aside.
2. Butter the bread slices on both sides and lay them on a baking sheet. Bake for 
10 minutes, or until toasted. Flip and toast on the other side.
3. In a saucepan over low heat, combine the piloncillo cones, water, cinnamon, star 
anise, and cloves and cook for 20 minutes, until an amber-colored sugar syrup 
forms. Add the raisins (if using) and allow them to plump in the syrup for 10 to 15 
minutes.
4. Layer the toasted bread in the prepared baking pan. Sprinkle with the peanuts, 
pine nuts, coconut, and cheese. You can make several layers.
5. Ladle the warm piloncillo syrup and raisins over the top, making sure to drench 
each piece of the toasted bread on every layer.129 Desserts and Drinks6. Cover the pan with aluminum foil and bake for 30 minutes. Remove the  
foil and toast the top for 10 minutes more. Serve immediately with a glass  
of milk.
VARIATION
Use toasted croissants cut into chunks. Use an orange peel instead of star anise. 
Sprinkle the bread pudding with nonpareils to add color. Some home cooks add a few 
corn tortillas to the bottom of the pan to prevent the bread from burning while baking. 
Capirotada can be served cold, too, so keep any leftovers in the refrigerator.
Mexico's Christmas Food  
and Traditions
Las Posadas are street parties leading up to Christmas Day that include 
processions simulating Maria and Joseph’s journey and symbols 
such as star piñatas representing the seven deadly sins that, when 
destroyed, provide gifts of sugarcane, mandarins, peanuts, jícama, 
and colación. Nativity scenes are the pride and joy of many families. 
Traditional dishes are pozole and ponche de frutas. I grew up eating 
a turkey dinner, as my family is from the North. However, my Spanish 
grandfather also included bacalao and turrones on the family menu. In 
Mexico City, families eat romeritos with shrimp cakes, prune pork loin 
or pierna adobada, and Christmas salad with beets.
The night before Epiphany, children leave their shoes out overnight 
to find them full of gifts the next day, and families cut the Rosca de 
Reyes, which includes at least one baby figurine. The lucky one that 
finds the baby has to invite everyone for dinner on February 2, the 
day of La Candelaria, which is when Baby Jesus is officially presented 
to the community. Tamales, hot chocolate, and atole are tradition -
ally served.130 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGArroz con Leche
Mexican Rice Pudding
Origin: Mexico City, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Tabasco, and Chiapas  |  Vegetarian
Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 45 minutes  |  Serves 6
Special equipment: cast-iron Dutch oven
Rice pudding originated in Asia and from there was adopted by Europe. After the 16th 
century, it came to Latin America. My grandfather was a refugee from Spain, and my 
grandmother used to make Asturias-style rice pudding with anisette, as that was the 
style he enjoyed most. Each household in Mexico has its own family recipe. My mom 
loved adding orange peel, so I do the same.
1 cup rice (long- or short-grain)
1 cup water
Peel of 1 orange 
1 cinnamon stick
Pinch coarse salt1 tablespoon ground cinnamon, plus 
pinch for serving
1 (12-ounce) can evaporated milk
1 cup fresh whole milk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 (14-ounce) can condensed milk
1. In a soup pot or cast-iron Dutch oven over medium heat, combine the rice, 
water, orange peel, cinnamon stick, salt, and ground cinnamon. Cook for  
10 minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon.
2. After the first boil, the rice will become creamy. Add the evaporated milk, whole 
milk, and vanilla and continue to cook, stirring, for another  
20 minutes.
3. When the rice is soft to the touch, add the condensed milk and stir again. Cook 
for another 10 to 15 minutes, until creamy.
4. Remove and discard the orange peel and cinnamon stick. Turn off the heat 
and cover the pot with the lid. Serve warm or cold, sprinkled with a little ground 
cinnamon.
TIP
Short-grain rice makes the rice pudding sticky, so use that type of rice if you prefer 
that texture. Serve the rice pudding with fresh fruit or pour it in a popsicle mold and 
put it in the freezer to make iced pops.131 Desserts and DrinksCafé de Olla con Canela
Hot Pot Coffee with Cinnamon
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 5 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 4
Special equipment: French press
Some say café de olla became popular during the Mexican Revolution. Many believe 
this recipe is a century old and a staple of campfires where the “Adelitas” (women at the 
service of the revolution) used to care for the militia. Hot spiced coffee helped people 
survive the cold nights. It is called “café de olla” because, traditionally, it is prepared 
using a clay pot over direct flame. Hot pot coffee is also a tradition at funerals and Day 
of the Dead celebrations.
4 cups water
1 (8-ounce) piloncillo cone
1 cinnamon stick
1 star anise1 clove
4 to 6 tablespoons ground Mexican 
coffee
Sugar, for serving (optional)
1. In a saucepan over medium heat, combine the water and piloncillo and cook 
for 15 minutes, or until the piloncillo has dissolved. Add the cinnamon, star 
anise, and clove and cook for another 15 minutes. When the preparation 
reaches the first boil, remove the spices.
2. Put the ground coffee in a French press and pour the hot piloncillo-spiced water 
over the top. Steep for 3 minutes, then press.
3. Serve hot, add sugar if needed, and enjoy with pastries.
TIP
The coffee can be made using a pour-over technique or strained. Save any leftover 
coffee to enjoy iced with an orange peel twist.132 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGAgua de Horchata
Horchata
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegetarian  |  Prep time: 5 minutes, plus overnight to soak rice
Serves 4  |  Special equipment: blender
Horchata is a milky drink that originated in Spain and is commonly served in summer 
and prepared with nuts called “chufas.” In Mexico, this drink is prepared with rice and 
cinnamon, and it sometimes includes almonds. Street parties and parrilladas always 
have a perol of agua de horchata. The rice requires soaking overnight.
1 cup rice
¼ cup raw almonds
1 cinnamon stick
1 cup hot water
4 cups water, divided1 (14-ounce) can condensed milk
1 (12-ounce) can evaporated milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Sugar (optional)
1. In a medium bowl, combine the rice, almonds, cinnamon, and the hot water. 
Cover with plastic and soak overnight.
2. The next day, transfer the mixture to a blender and add 1 cup of water. Blend the 
mixture into a watery paste, adding more water if necessary.
3. Strain the rice paste and transfer it to a pitcher. Combine it with the remaining 
3 cups of water, the condensed and evaporated milks, and the vanilla. Mix 
until milky.
4. Taste and add sugar (if using). Serve in a tall glass over ice.
VARIATION
Add a handful of fresh strawberries to make strawberry horchata. This same recipe is 
perfect for making ice pops or granita. Replace the condensed milk with 1 cup of sugar 
and use coconut or almond milk for a nondairy option.133 Desserts and DrinksAgua de Jamaica
Hibiscus Iced Tea
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 5 minutes, plus 30 minutes to steep  |  Serves 6
This hibiscus iced tea is a beverage from my childhood. My mom always had a big pitch -
er of jamaica agua fresca ready for me to drink after school. This drink is so refreshing 
and tastes a bit like cranberry juice. Drinking it brings happy thoughts from home. The 
flower is edible and can be used for other purposes, such as in syrups and as a meat 
replacement in vegan dishes.
1 cup dried hibiscus flowers
4 cups boiling water
1 liter iced water2 cups ice
½ cup agave nectar (or raw sugar, 
granulated sugar, or Splenda)
1. In a mason jar, steep the hibiscus flowers in the boiling water for  
30 minutes. Allow the hibiscus flowers to steep long enough to produce a 
strong tea extract. It can be covered and left in the refrigerator overnight.
2. When ready to serve, pour the iced water into a pitcher and add the ice. Mix with 
the hibiscus tea extract and sweeten with the agave nectar. Serve cold in a tall 
glass.
TIP
Make a hibiscus latte by adding your favorite creamer. I recommend sweet coconut 
milk creamer. Or prepare a hibiscus margarita using the hibiscus tea extract and add -
ing lemonade and tequila.134 BEST OF MEXICAN COOKINGPonche de Frutas para  
la Navidad
Christmas Fruit Punch
Origin: Mexico  |  Vegan  |  Prep time: 15 minutes  |  Cook time: 30 minutes  |  Serves 12
This punch is an excellent drink for parties and a staple for Las Posadas. The beverage 
is part of the Spanish heritage and uses seasonal fruits such as tejocote and sugarcane. 
Home cooks prepare a big pot, and everyone can enjoy it after breaking the classic 
piñata. This hot beverage is a family-friendly option, but some adults like to add piquete  
to their ponche, mixing it with brandy, rum, or tequila.
2 green apples, cored and diced
3 McIntosh apples, cored and diced
2 pears, cored and diced
2 quince, cored and diced
2 Valencia oranges, sliced
8 prunes, pitted6 dried hibiscus flowers
5 tamarind pods
4 cinnamon sticks
2 cups turbinado sugar
10 cups water
Combine the green and McIntosh apples, pears, quince, oranges, prunes, 
hibiscus flowers, tamarind, cinnamon, turbinado sugar, and water in a large pot 
over medium heat. Cook for 30 minutes. Serve the ponche hot and scoop the 
cooked fruit into the cups.
TIP
For an adult version, add 1 ounce of brandy or rum per cup and use jarritos for serving. 
Fruit punch leftovers keep well, refrigerated, for up to 3 days. Reheat the ponche in 
the microwave. On Amazon, there is a Ponche de Navidad kit available that includes 
all the ingredients needed for the recipe.Measurement conversions
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (LIQUID)
US STANDARD US STANDARD 
(OUNCES)METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
2 tablespoons 1 fl. oz. 30 mL
¼ cup 2 fl. oz. 60 mL
½ cup 4 fl. oz. 120 mL
1 cup 8 fl. oz. 240 mL
1 ½ cups 12 fl. oz. 355 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 16 fl. oz. 475 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 32 fl. oz. 1 L
1 gallon 128 fl. oz. 4 L
VOLUME EQUIVALENTS (DRY)
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
⅛ teaspoon 0.5 mL
¼ teaspoon 1 mL
½ teaspoon 2 mL
¾ teaspoon 4 mL
1 teaspoon 5 mL
1 tablespoon 15 mL
¼ cup 59 mL
⅓ cup 79 mL
½ cup 118 mL
⅔ cup 156 mL
¾ cup 177 mL
1 cup 235 mL
2 cups or 1 pint 475 mL
3 cups 700 mL
4 cups or 1 quart 1 L
½ gallon 2 L
1 gallon 4 LOVEN TEMPERATURES
FAHRENHEIT (F) CELSIUS (C) 
(APPROXIMATE)
250° 120°
300° 150°
325° 165°
350° 180°
375° 190°
400° 200°
425° 220°
450° 230°
WEIGHT EQUIVALENTS
US STANDARD METRIC 
(APPROXIMATE)
½ ounce 15 g
1 ounce 30 g
2 ounces 60 g
4 ounces 115 g
8 ounces 225 g
12 ounces 340 g
16 ounces or 1 pound 455 g
136137Index
A
Achiote paste, 12
Agua de Horchata, 132
Agua de Jamaica, 133
Albóndigas de Res al Chipotle, 88–89
Anise, 12
Antojitos, 55. See also  Snacks and appetizers
Arroz. See  Rice
Atole de Calabaza, 127
Avocado leaves, 7
Avocados, 6–7
Ensalada de Aguacate, 117
Guacamole de Aguacate Asado, 31
Aztecs, 2, 6
B
Bajío region, 3
Beans, 12
Frijoles Charros, 112
Frijoles Mayos Refritos, 111
Frijoles Puercos, 113
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba, 43
Sopa Tarasca, 65
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
Beef
Albóndigas de Res al Chipotle, 88–89
Caldillo de Res con Papas, 69
Carne Asada, 94
Flautas de Carne Deshebrada, 57
Machaca con Huevo, 40
Milanesa de Res, 91
Picadillo de Res, 90
Salpicón de Res, 92–93
Birria Clásica, 66–67
Bitter oranges, 7
Bread
Capirotada, 128–129
Breakfasts, 45
Chilaquiles Verdes, 38–39
Huevos Ahogados, 44–45
Huevos con Chorizo a la Mexicana, 41Huevos Divorciados, 37
Huevos Rancheros, 36
Machaca con Huevo, 40
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba, 43
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales, 42
C
Café de Olla con Canela, 131
Caldillo de Res con Papas, 69
Caldo de Camarón o Huatapé, 70
Camarones Endiablados, 75
Capirotada, 128–129
Caramelo, Flan Clásico de Vainilla, 122–123
Carne Asada, 94
Cebollitas Moradas en Escabeche, 33
Central Mexico region, 4
Cerdo en Adobo, 96
Ceviche de Camarón, 50
Chayote, Ensalada de, 115
Cheese
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba, 43
Molotes de Queso, 52–53
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
types of, 15–16
Chicharrón de Cerdo en Salsa Verde, 97
Chicken
Chilaquiles Verdes, 38–39
Encacahuatado de Pollo, 84–85
Ensalada Mexicana de Pollo, 114
Mole Poblano con Pollo, 82–83
Pollo en Salsa Cremosa de Chipotles, 80
Pollo Pibil, 81
Sopa de Lima, 68
Sopes de Pollo, 54–55
Chilaquiles Verdes, 38–39
Chiles, 10–11, 18–19. See also specific
Chiles de árbol, 10
Salsa Macha, 32
Salsa Picante de Chile de Árbol, 29
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de 
Árbol Fresco, 27–28138
 INDEXChiles Rellenos, 102–103
Chipotle peppers, 11
Albóndigas de Res al Chipotle, 88–89
Lomo de Cerdo en Salsa de 
Ciruelas con Chipotle, 95
Pollo en Salsa Cremosa de Chipotles, 80
Sopa Seca de Fideo, 71
Chocolate, 12
Mole Poblano con Pollo, 82–83
Chorizo, 15
Chorizo de Cerdo Casero, 104–105
Huevos con Chorizo a la Mexicana, 41
Christmas traditions, 129
Churros de Canela, 126
Cilantro, 7
Cinnamon, 12
Café de Olla con Canela, 131
Churros de Canela, 126
Clay pots, 16
Cloves, 12
Coffee
Café de Olla con Canela, 131
Comals, 16
Condensed milk, 12
Agua de Horchata, 132
Arroz con Leche, 130
Pastel de Tres Leches, 124–125
Convents, 25
Corn husks, 13
Crab
Jaibas Rellenas, 79
Culinary regions, 2–5
D
Day of the Dead, 63
Desserts
Arroz con Leche, 130
Atole de Calabaza, 127
Capirotada, 128–129
Churros de Canela, 126
Flan Clásico de Vainilla con Caramelo, 122–123
Pastel de Tres Leches, 124–125
Drinks
Agua de Horchata, 132
Agua de Jamaica, 133Café de Olla con Canela, 131
Ponche de Frutas para la Navidad, 134
Drying chiles and peppers, 18–19
E
Eggs
Huevos Ahogados, 44–45
Huevos con Chorizo a la Mexicana, 41
Huevos Divorciados, 37
Huevos Rancheros, 36
Machaca con Huevo, 40
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales, 42
Encacahuatado de Pollo, 84–85
Enchiladas Mineras, 100–101
Ensalada. See  Salads
Epazote, 7
Equipment, 16–17
Evaporated milk, 12
Agua de Horchata, 132
Arroz con Leche, 130
Pastel de Tres Leches, 124–125
F
Fish and seafood
Arroz a la Tumbada, 76–77
Caldo de Camarón o Huatapé, 70
Camarones Endiablados, 75
Ceviche de Camarón, 50
Jaibas Rellenas, 79
Pescado a la Talla, 78
Pescado a la Veracruzana, 74–75
Flan Clásico de Vainilla con Caramelo, 122–123
Flautas de Carne Deshebrada, 57
Frijoles. See  Beans
Fruits, 109
Ponche de Frutas para la Navidad, 134
G
Garlic, 8, 17
Gorditas de Atotonilco con  
Chicharrón, 56
Guacamole de Aguacate Asado, 31
Guajillo chiles, 10
Huevos Ahogados, 44–45
Gulf region, 4139 IndexH
Habanero y Tomate, Salsa de Chile, 30
Herbs, 19
Hominy, 13
Pozole, 62–63
Huevos. See  Eggs
I
Indigenous cooking traditions, 5–6
Ingredient staples, 6–16
J
Jaibas Rellenas, 79
Jalapeño peppers, 11
Chicharrón de Cerdo en Salsa Verde, 97
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo, 28
Salsa de Pico de Gallo, 26
Jícama, 8
Juana Inés de la Cruz, 25
L
Lamb
Birria Clásica, 66–67
Lard, 14
Limas, 8
Limes, 8
Sopa de Lima, 68
Lomo de Cerdo en Salsa de Ciruelas 
con Chipotle, 95
M
Machaca con Huevo, 40
Masa harina, 13
Gorditas de Atotonilco con Chicharrón, 56
Memelas Oaxaqueñas, 58–59
Molotes de Queso, 52–53
Sopes de Pollo, 54–55
Tamales de Cerdo, 98–99
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
Tortillas de Maíz Caseras, 22–23
Mayas, 2, 6
Meatballs
Albóndigas de Res al Chipotle, 88–89
Memelas Oaxaqueñas, 58–59Mendoza, Abigail, 5
Mexican crema, 15
Mexican cuisine
Christmas traditions, 129
culinary regions, 2–5
equipment, 16–17
indigenous traditions, 5–6
ingredients, 6–16
Milanesa de Res, 91
Mint, 8
Mixtecs, 5
Molcajetes, 16
Mole Poblano con Pollo, 82–83
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba, 43
Molotes de Queso, 52–53
N
Nahua people, 6
Nopales, 9
Ensalada de Nopalitos, 116
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales, 42
North Pacific Coast region, 3
North region, 2
Nuns, 25
Nuts, 19
O
Onions, 8, 18
Cebollitas Moradas en Escabeche, 33
P
Panela, 13
Pasta
Sopa Seca de Fideo, 71
Pastel de Tres Leches, 124–125
Peanuts, 13
Encacahuatado de Pollo, 84–85
Pescado. See  Fish and seafood
Picadillo de Res, 90
Piloncillo, 13
Pipián Rojo con Pavo, 86–87
Plantains, 9
Poblano chiles, 11, 18
Arroz Verde de Chile Poblano, 110
Chiles Rellenos, 102–103140 INDEXPollo. See  Chicken
Ponche de Frutas para la Navidad, 134
Pork, 77. See also  Chorizo
Cerdo en Adobo, 96
Chicharrón de Cerdo en Salsa Verde, 97
Gorditas de Atotonilco con Chicharrón, 56
Lomo de Cerdo en Salsa de 
Ciruelas con Chipotle, 95
Pozole, 62–63
Tamales de Cerdo, 98–99
Potatoes, 9
Caldillo de Res con Papas, 69
Pozole, 62–63
Pressure cookers, 16
Prunes
Lomo de Cerdo en Salsa de 
Ciruelas con Chipotle, 95
Pumpkin puree
Atole de Calabaza, 127
Pumpkin seeds, 13
Q
Queso Chihuahua, 16
Queso cotija, 15
Queso fresco, 15
Queso Oaxaca, 15
R
Recipes, about, 19
Rice, 13
Agua de Horchata, 132
Arroz a la Tumbada, 76–77
Arroz con Leche, 130
Arroz Rojo a la Mexicana, 108
Arroz Verde de Chile Poblano, 110
Roasting, 17–18
S
Sahagún, Bernardino de, 55
Salads
Ensalada de Aguacate, 117
Ensalada de Chayote, 115
Ensalada de Navidad, 118
Ensalada de Nopalitos, 116
Ensalada Mexicana de Pollo, 114Salpicón de Res, 92–93
Salsas
Salsa de Chile Habanero y Tomate, 30
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo, 28
Salsa de Pico de Gallo, 26
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de 
Árbol Fresco, 27–28
Sauces
Salsa Macha, 32
Salsa Picante de Chile de Árbol, 29
Seeds, 19
Sesame seeds, 14
Shrimp
Arroz a la Tumbada, 76–77
Caldo de Camarón o Huatapé, 70
Camarones Endiablados, 75
Ceviche de Camarón, 50
Snacks and appetizers
Ceviche de Camarón, 50
Flautas de Carne Deshebrada, 57
Gorditas de Atotonilco con  
Chicharrón, 56
Memelas Oaxaqueñas, 58–59
Molotes de Queso, 52–53
Sopes de Pollo, 54–55
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
Tortas Ahogadas, 51–52
Soups and stews
Birria Clásica, 66–67
Caldillo de Res con Papas, 69
Caldo de Camarón o Huatapé, 70
Pozole, 62–63
Sopa de Lima, 68
Sopa de Tortilla, 64–65
Sopa Seca de Fideo, 71
Sopa Tarasca, 65
South Pacific Coast region, 3
South region, 5
Spices, 14, 19
Squash, 9
T
Tacos
Flautas de Carne Deshebrada, 57
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales, 42141
 IndexTamaleras, 17
Tamales de Cerdo, 98–99
Tea
Agua de Jamaica, 133
30 minutes or less
Ensalada de Aguacate, 117
Ensalada de Chayote, 115
Ensalada de Navidad, 118
Ensalada Mexicana de Pollo, 114
Guacamole de Aguacate Asado, 31
Huevos Divorciados, 37
Huevos Rancheros, 36
Salsa de Chile Habanero y Tomate, 30
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo, 28
Salsa de Pico de Gallo, 26
Salsa Picante de Chile de Árbol, 29
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de 
Árbol Fresco, 27–28
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
Toasting, 18–19
Tomatillos, 9, 18
Chicharrón de Cerdo en Salsa  
Verde, 97
Chilaquiles Verdes, 38–39
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de 
Árbol Fresco, 27–28
Tomatoes, 9, 18
Huevos Ahogados, 44–45
Salsa de Chile Habanero y Tomate, 30
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo, 28
Salsa de Pico de Gallo, 26
Tortas Ahogadas, 51–52
Tortilla presses, 17
Tortillas, 14
Chilaquiles Verdes, 38–39
Sopa de Tortilla, 64–65
Tortillas de Harina al Estilo  
Chihuahua, 24–25
Tortillas de Maíz Caseras, 22–23
Turkey
Pipián Rojo con Pavo, 86–87V
Vainilla con Caramelo, Flan Clásico de, 122–123
Vegan
Agua de Jamaica, 133
Café de Olla con Canela, 131
Cebollitas Moradas en Escabeche, 33
Ensalada de Aguacate, 117
Ensalada de Chayote, 115
Guacamole de Aguacate Asado, 31
Ponche de Frutas para la Navidad, 134
Salsa de Chile Habanero y Tomate, 30
Salsa de Jalapeño Rojo, 28
Salsa de Pico de Gallo, 26
Salsa Macha, 32
Salsa Picante de Chile de Árbol, 29
Salsa Verde Picante con Chile de 
Árbol Fresco, 27–28
Tortillas de Harina al Estilo Chihuahua, 24–25
Tortillas de Maíz Caseras, 22–23
Vegetables, 109. See also specific
Vegetarian. See also  Vegan
Agua de Horchata, 132
Arroz con Leche, 130
Atole de Calabaza, 127
Capirotada, 128–129
Churros de Canela, 126
Ensalada de Navidad, 118
Ensalada de Nopalitos, 116
Flan Clásico de Vainilla con Caramelo, 122–123
Huevos Divorciados, 37
Huevos Rancheros, 36
Molletes con Frijoles Mayocoba, 43
Pastel de Tres Leches, 124–125
Tacos de Huevo con Nopales, 42
Tlacoyos de Frijol con Queso, 48–49
Y
Y erba santa, 10
Z
Zapotecs, 5Acknowledgments
I want to thank my editorial team for their professionalism and dedication while 
putting together my first cookbook. I have grown as a writer thanks to your 
feedback and guidance. Without your help, I would not have been able to 
become a published author.
I am grateful for my family and my husband’s support during the creation pro -
cess. Without your love, I would not have been able to sustain all those long 
days and nights of recipe testing, culinary research, and writing.
And to all of you food lovers who have been following my steps since I 
started my culinary journey: Without your continued support, I wouldn’t have 
been inspired to write this book that I hope you will find helpful.
¡Gracias!
About the Author
Adriana Martin  is a home chef and founder of 
 AdrianasBestRecipes.com. She is a Latina food writer 
specializing in recipe development influenced by 
Mexico’s culinary culture and European cuisine. Her 
grandmother taught her how to cook, and now her 
mission is to inspire others to make homemade meals. 
She recently discovered her passion for baking arti-
sanal bread and classic desserts. Adriana also teaches online cooking classes 
and is a trained food stylist and photographer. She has published thousands 
of recipes and has collaborated with top brands and prestigious publications 
since 2011.
LATISM has recognized Adriana as a Top 100 most influential Latina  blogger 
due to her contributions to the blogosphere, social media influence, and 
involvement with the community to raise awareness about child hunger in 
Florida’s Orlando area.
Hispanicize and Telemundo awarded Adriana with the 2016 Tecla Award for 
Best Food Content Creator. The Tecla Awards is a national awards program 
that honors the achievements of top multicultural content creators.